The Washington and Lee University Alumn Magazine

 

1s aco
@ Education

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
   

A major obstacle stands in the way of recruiting gifted students:
the ever-escalating cost of education.

W&L wants to admit students based on their talents regardless of their economic backgrounds. But often, an educa-
tion at an elite institution like W&L is a luxury. The University wants to be in the position where it doesn’t have
to deny any qualified student.

John Zimmer ’01, now a chemistry graduate student at MIT, was able to attend W&L ona OTT WEL COTE,
scholarship established by
J. Thomas ‘Touchton ’60.
“My parents aren’t wealthy. YOR WEROOE

I come from an average, ($60,275,000 LARUE
middle-class family.” With an

RY LT

older sister already in college $10,600,000 law).

and a twin brother, financing
a college education was up to him. “I’m proud that I
didn’t have to ask my parents for a nickel.” Zimmer
graduated with $8,000 in loans. “That’s an amount
that’s not too scary,” he said. “I know I can repay it.”
For Tom Touchton ’60, endowing a scholarship
served to honor his parents but also was a way to give
back to W&L. He says, “Financial aid helps to remove
some of the pressure of being concerned about finances

 

in order to concentrate on the work that has to be done.”

John Zimmer ’O1 is pursuing | Some Law School students face a double-whammy, carrying a debt load from their undergraduate
graduate work in chemistry | school and additional debt to finance a law degree. Scholarship assistance opens a range of career choices.
because undergraduate finan- Rebecca Miles ’03L is a
cial aid eased his debt burden. | perfect example. She was a
recipient of the Kenneth

L. Gordy 91L, Memorial Scholarship, which covers

most of her tuition. “The financial package W&L
offered made a huge difference in my choice of
schools. Having a smaller debt load when I finish law

school will make it possible for me to do some things

I probably couldn’t have, such as apply for a judicial

clerkship, which is prestigious but doesn’t pay much.”

 

 

Rebecca Miles ’03L hopes
to apply for a judicial clerkship.
Financial aid gives her more

freedom to explore career options.

 

 

AT WASHINGTOR AMD Tee VRE Se BR StEE

For campaign updates or to make a difference, please go to http://support.wlu.edu —

 

 

 

APRTCAN OA FERER’S BY Werdy Lovell ’oo

Walter Kansteiner ’77 reveals Africa’s role in the war on terrorism.

We Ss PTR er eee I By Deborah Marquardt

An interview with President Thomas G. Burish.

Mining Ft UP l By Deborah Marquardt

Different points of view enhance the educational experience.

Pere rrewM RIDER $ CONTLNUING TOUR NE Y | By Dick Anderson

John Maguire ’53 has dedicated his life to social justice.

WHEN FUSS CECE WATTS | By Matt Jennings ’93

Robert Posey *73 fought for the memories of four little girls killed in a church bombing 38 years ago.

Oe ee ee

 

 

EM avunn PRESIDENT’S ee THE COLONNADE MY cenerais’ REPORT

JOURNAL It’s 20 years of Alumni College; alco- Julie Carskadon ’02 shows strength

Russ Chambliss °74 welcomes

hol update; campus news. under fire; Hall of Fame.
President Burish.

See SRY Se Oe 6 8S ee ee ee a es

: 7 13 LAW 41 NEWS
Ey ETTERS ‘The crusade of Greg Wiercioch ’92L; Reunion Weekend, campaign leader-

admissions chat rooms. ship, class notes.

=O 090 a0 0 4) 6%
ee i et ee ee ee i a es a eee

i ee ee ee ee ee eS ee ee ee ee ee ee er eh ae eee Le ek a ae a ee ee gee ee eae ss ee eke ge We ee ee a ae err ps. Ee

   

VOLUME 77 | NUMBER I
SPRING/SUMMER 2002

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Deborah Marquardt | University Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Jill Kosh '00, Wendy Lovell '90,

Matt Jennings '93, Agnes Flak '03,

John Eisinger 'O03L | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely '73 | Uwsiversity Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. ’60, Rector
Laurent Boetsch ’69, Acting President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop III 68 (Flourtown, Pa.)
William P. Boardman ’63, ’69L. (Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

J. Donald Childress °71 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport IIT 69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T.- Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

Wilham H. Fishback Jr. 56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom °73 (Columbia, S.C.)

William R. Goodell ’80L (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell IIT ’69, °75L (Richmond)

Wilham B. Hill Jr.°74, °77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, ’62L (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr. °62 (Hillsborough, Calif.)
William J. Kimmel ’69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)

John Klinedinst ’’71, ’78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Galif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, ’69L (Houston)

Thomas N. McJunkin ’70 (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Monier ’62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)
Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Matthew G. Thompson 64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm °68, °75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White ’77L. (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-458-8400
Publications Office 540-458-8956

Admissions Office 540-458-8710 SAWES G, LEYBURIN LIBRARY
Alumm Office 540-455-5404 \WIAGHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu LEXINGTON. VA 24450

eas

Career Services 540-458-8595
Development Office 540-458-8410

News Office 540-458-5460

Sports Information Office 540-458-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-458-8998
WEL Home Page www.wlu.edu

 

 

“In the beginning, each of us felt

most important constituency
of the University. During the
process, we discovered that

 

 

I t's official. Washington and Lee has a new leader. As

many of you already know, Dr. Thomas G. Burish, provost at Vanderbilt University, has

been selected as our 24th president. Dr. Burish is a great choice, and he will lead the

University to new heights. He is intelligent, charming, witty and extremely engaging.

Most importantly, he has done his homework and has a good understanding of what

W&L has been, is now and wants to be in the future.

LESSONS IN LEADERS

 

As important as the news of our new president is, however, I would like to share

with you my experience of serving on the search committee. Quite honestly I had self-

ish reasons for wishing to participate. I wanted someone who thought as I did and would

not lead our school down a path that would change it
forever into something I could not live with. I was
prepared for long contentious meetings. My chin-
strap was buckled and I was ready to defend “the
Ole School.” If you were to poll the other committee
members, I believe their honest response would be
that they, too, approached this task with their own
agendas first and foremost in their minds.

Well, we were not disappointed on the long
meetings, but a funny thing happened on the way to
finding Dr. Burish. The selection process, which |
anticipated would be a negative W&L experience,
turned out to be one of my most positive. Somehow
the personal agendas of the committee members
took a back seat to finding the leader who would be
best for Washington and Lee. I know that Professor

Harlan Beckley’s leadership was a key factor in

RUSS CHAMBLISS ’74,
PRESIDENT,
W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
RCHAMBLISS@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

 

achieving this, but there was more to it than that. Committee members put into practice

the virtues we claim to hold so dear. We treated each other with civility, honor, dignity

and respect. I regretted the process had to come to an end.

Tom Burish asked the committee (all 28 of us)

that we represented the

 

 

we were all important.”

at the end of his interview, “What do you hope to
come out of this process with when it is finished?”
We all agreed that we learned a valuable lesson by
serving on this committee. In the beginning, each
of us felt that we represented the most important

constituency of the University. During the

process, we discovered that we were all important

and that one group could not excel without the other. We learned that the trustees,

administration, faculty, staff, students, parents and alumni are all spokes of the wheel sup-

porting the hub known as Washington and Lee. We learned that when the spokes are

strong, the wheel will roll a long way. If one spoke is weak, we just can’t go as far or as fast

as we need to, if we can roll at all. We also agreed that we would like to harness the spit-

it that we had found in this process and share it with our constituencies and spread it

throughout the University.

It is a new day. We have a new leader. I urge you to join the selection committee

and practice what we preach. If we will support Tom Burish, and if we will treat each

member of the University community with honor, civility, dignity and respect, I think we

will be astonished how far this old wheel called Washington and Lee will roll. +

 

 

Wath ing i aa and Stoel Mi cresiailee Uienehbehbied M A G A 2 |

 

Town|/Gown

e comment in

| agree with th
that

your town/gown article
young professors are ambitious
people, many of whom have
spouses who must seek work

outside Lexington. But are our
ising arrangements “chipping
at the foundation of people

that makes Lexington

hot
away
power”
tick? I think not.

Faculty under 40, many of
whom are not yet tenured, spend
precious time serving on com-
munity boards, teaching Sunday
school classes, singing and per-
forming in musical groups,
coaching children’s sports teams,
leading Boy Scout troops, raising
environmental awareness and
volunteering their time for the
arts, for social services, for schools
and preschools.

True, many young faculty
must live outside the city lim-
its, because the cost of homes
in Lexington has soared in the
last five years. Despite these
costs, Lexington is still consid-
ered a highly desirable loca-
tion: Its superb city services,
the beauty of its neighbor-
hoods, its excellent grade
school and middle school and
all the attractions that make it
SO appealing to the retirees
who flock here are not lost on

young faculty. If all the young

Write to WGL

By Mail: University Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 2445()

By E-Mail: Magazine@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-458-8024

p : o Should be signed and include the

£ ~~

at 4 — and da) time phone num-

for length, congo teation may be edited

the views of th a and style. Signed articles reflect

those of the es 7 authors and not necessa rily
tonal board or the | ais:

faculty who devote time and
resources to Lexington were
suddenly to stop, then you’d
really see an erosion of the
foundation of people power.

Suzanne Keen
Professor of English

Stunning Achievements

 

When I received the last edition
of the alumni magazine (Winter
2002) my heart leapt for joy. I
never dreamed I would see
Lyrae Van Clief ’93 on the cover.
‘The photograph was excellent,
and so was the story. Rae is a
person I have long admired, and
her story illustrates the kind of
achievement that is_ possible
through hard work and persis-
tence. Her personal journey was
not an easy one, and she
deserves our hearty congratula-
tions for her success.

I would also compliment
you for not diminishing Rae’s
story by tying if @ the
University’s current efforts to
achieve greater diversity. She
deserved to stand in the sun-

shine alone. Alleluia!
Ted DeLaney ’85
Associate Professor of History

Alcohol Education

 

I have followed the college’s
efforts to improve the alcohol
situation on campus. After see-
ing William C. Moyers’ ’81 pic-
ture in the magazine several
years ago and his current article
titled “Alcohol Education,” I
felt moved to say something.
I’ve had to deal with alcohol
issues, as most all of us have. We
all know of alcohol-related
deaths, quick or slow.

I share Moyers’ concern
about how well “education” and
counseling works on students
with alcohol and drug problems.
By the time people are identified
with a problem, much damage

 

has already been done. I advocate
orientation education about alco-
hol and drugs for new students.
‘They should be told to take psy-
chology courses that will educate
them about the physiological and
psychological health aspects of
use and abuse of these drugs.
Most large universities have
at least two or more semester-
long classes on alcohol and drugs.
It is wise to give a mental vacci-

nation against addiction.
Mark Torres °S2
Norwich, Conn.

One for AH

I was very touched by the arti-
cle “Civil War Story—Under
One Roof” by Lisa Antonelli
Bacon 1n the Winter issue. After
World War II, I was one of the
first Austrian exchange stu-
dents coming to the U.S. I was
happy to be a freshman on the
W&L campus in 1950. At this
time, segregation was still in
affect. African-Americans had
to go to the rear of buses and sit
in the balcony of the downtown
movie theater.

I congratulate supporters of
the new museum in Richmond,
telling the story of this terrible
war from three points of view
(Union, Confederate and
African-American) and explain-
ing history in a manner of toler-
ance and understanding.

Dr. Herwig R. Brandstetter ’54

Graz, Austria
Corrections:

An apology to David Elmes,
professor of psychology, who 1s
not retired as was suggested in
a photo caption on p. 41 of the
Winter 2002 issue.

Also to the family of Robert Allan
Schlegel °85, whose name was
misspelled in the Fall 2001 issue.
Schlegel was a victim of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. +

 

PGiors

a wu d

 

£46 ee Antes ox)

Mm A G A 2 | NOE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

>

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

Russell W. Chambliss °74, President (Birmingham, Ala.)

Wilham P. Wallace Jr. °74,°77L, Vice President
(Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish ITT °76, Executive Secretary and

Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman ’91 (Morristown, N.J.)
Robert M. Balentine Jr. °79 (Atlanta)

Amy GC. Balfour ’89, 931. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
Wiltam M. Ball IIT ’69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Barry O. Barlow °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Roger G. Bowers 941. (Richmond)

James R. Brooks °77 (Houston)

John M. Cleghorn ’84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

J. Hagood Elhson Jr. °72 (Columbia, 8.C.)

John M. Falk ’86, “901. (Washington)

Peter C. Keefe °78 (Washington)

B. Christopher Lee 71 (Philadelphia)

Devon A. McAlister ’92 (San Francisco)

David S. Makepeace 88 (Raleigh, N.C.)

Theodore B. Martin Jr. 80 (Chicago)

The Hon. Witham Ray Price Jr. 78 (Jefferson Gity, Mo.)
Hugh L.. Robinson IT So (Baltimore)

Bradley B. Root ’88 (Pittsburgh)

Wilham W. Schaefer 60 (Memphis, Tenn.)

Wilham M. Toles ’92, °95L (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus °83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Lizanne Thomas 821, President (Atlanta)

James J. Kelley Il 741, Vice President (Washington)

David L. Baird Jr.°71L., Immediate Past President
(Houston)

Law Council

Loranne Ausley ’90L (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T. Balfour 63, °65L. (Richmond)

Joseph W. Brown 68L (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert 75, °79L (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin ’90, °93L (Louisville, Ky.)
E.. Townes Duncan ’78L. (Nashville, Tenn.)
David P. Falck ’78L (New York City)

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L (New York City)

The Hon. Michael L. Krancer ’83L. (Harrisburg, Pa.)
Jessine A. Monaghan °79L, (Washington)

James E:. Nicholson °77L. (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E.. Payne °63, ’67L. (Richmond)
C. Edward Russell Jr. °67L (Norfolk)

Caroline W. Sink ’82L (Chartotte)

Robert I. Stolzman ’86L (Providence, RI.)
David G. Weaver ’81L. (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf So. (Washington)

Richard T. (Rick) Woulfe °76L. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)
Laura Anderson Wright ’94L (College Park, Md.)
Anne R. Yuengert 89L (Birmingham, Ala.)

oa ‘tt a ee

 

 

ONE OF THE FIRST ALUMNI COLLEGE CLASSES. THESE 1984 PARTICIPANTS

ATTENDED A SESSION ON

In the summer of 1982, Dan Wooldridge °51 and his wife, Jett,
spent part of their honeymoon at Washington and Lee. During a
lecture on Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, Professor Sid
Coulling taught them that the four most famous words in the
English language to come out of the Congo were “The horror!
‘The horror!” Professor ‘Tom Nye
introduced them to pheromones
and Lewis Thomas’ 7he Lives of
a Cell. Professor Len Jarrard
challenged them with brain con-
cepts that they said left their
minds spinning. ‘Tom Wolfe ’51
spoke about “The Anatomy of
Courage.” Professor Bill Jenks held them spellbound with a pre-
scient lecture on Islam.

“IT don’t think any of us breathed while he spoke,”
Wooldridge said.

When the week was over, they vowed to return again. ‘The
theme was “Changing Views in Changing
Times,” and W& Ls first Alumni College was an
experiment that has proven to be immensely
successful.

“While we have been to many programs
since that one, there is still something magical

about that first program and having heard four of

Celebrating 20 Years

Summer Salute

Of Alumni

Visit alumnicollege.wlu.edu

Jill Kosch 00

“SOCIETY AND THE MEDIA.”

 

W&Ls greatest professors (now all retired) and one of its most
famous sons, all in the same week,” Wooldridge said.

Rob Fure, director of Special Programs (which includes the
Alumni College), said he was told he might be able to attract 25
people to that first program. Enrollment quickly reached 55, and
he had to close the door. It was a
harbinger of the program's
future growth. Now in its 20th
year, the Alumni College has
burgeoned from a one-week
summer program into five week-
wef ls long sane programs per yeal,
three weekend seminars and
several educational travel programs. More than 7,000 people have
attended one or more of 163 Alumni College campus and abroad
programs or a variety of weekend seminars. ‘Topics have ranged
from the Civil War to Shakespeare, from baseball to American cul-
ture. And if imitation is the highest form of flattery, Fure averages
10 calls per year from institutions wanting (0
develop alumni colleges of their own.

The creation of the Alumni College was set
in motion in 1981 when then-President Robert
E.R. Huntley ’50, °57L asked Fure to create 4
program that could utilize the faculty during the

Summer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee ss ee

 

 

“The idea for an alumni college was

floating around campus here and else-

<9
where those days,
as a new concept in higher edu-

> Fure said. “Vacation

learning W

cation.”

The Office of Summer Programs
(later Special Programs) was formed, and
Fure went (to Dartmouth College,
which has the longest established

alumni college in the US.,
to observe one in session.

“We had to learn how to
be hotel managers,” Fure said.
“We had to learn a lot of Southern
hospitality. We had to learn that
adults learn by engaging the faculty,
not just by being taught. So we have fac-
ulty participate in all aspects of the pro-
gram.

The motto of W&L’s Alumni College
is, “A good education 1s, above all, a habit
of mind.” People come to satisfy their

intellectual curiosity.
“There’s very little talk
about the good old

days,” Fure said "is

not Reunion Week-
end.”

For many W&L
alumni, parents and
friends of the

University, the Alumni
has
become a habit. Hardin
Marion °55, ’58L and
his wife, Heather, have participated in 75

College truly

ROBERT FURE

 

Alumni College programs, including 30
“T think it’s the best

thing W&L has ever done for the alumni,”
Marion said.

travel programs.

Many non-alumni take advantage of
the program as well. Former Lexington
mayor Buddy Derrick has attended 20
‘ampus programs and 20 abroad. “To me
it’s always important to exercise your mind
as well as your body,” Derrick said. “I
don’t know of any other way to do that that
| would enjoy as much. The travel pro-
stams make all our other travel pale by
COMPparison.”

Marion described a 1993 visit to the

Kremlin during an Alumni College trip to

Russia. ‘The group visited the office of
Professor Alexey Yablokov, state counselor
for ecology and public health, who had lec-
tured at W&L the previous year. With a
satellite photo depicting hotspots of

    
 
   
 
  
  

Hs

accidents

nuclear

hanging on the wall, Yablokov

explained the vast expanses of Russian

land that have been rendered uninhabit-
able by nuclear waste.

“It was amazing,” Marion said. “I said
to myself, if we had been in the U.S. as cit-
izens, we couldn’t have gotten into the
White House.”

‘The Alumni College affords its par-
ticipants unique opportunities on campus,
too. During a 1992 program on ancient
Egypt, Kent Weeks, an Egyptologist with
the American University of Cairo, shared a
discovery of his that he had not yet pub-
lished: the tomb of Ramses II’s sons, the
largest tomb ever discovered in Egypt.

‘The opportunity for faculty to teach
beside international experts, like Yablokov
and Weeks, 1s just one way the Alumni
College fulfills Huntley’s vision of faculty
development.

Marion, a member of the Alumni
College Advisory Committee, said faculty
also benefit by teaching adults who have
as much experience in the world as they
do, or more.

“The Alumni College is a_ pretty
tough bunch in terms of cross-examina-
tion,” said history Professor Barry
Machado, who has taught at several of
W&L’s Alumni Colleges. “It’s a chance to
have a rehearsal or preliminary lecture that

later finds its way into an undergraduate

lecture. ‘The Alumni College benefits the
faculty enormously also because it at least
allows a historian, who has to keep up on
ever-evolving literature, to tie together
what he or she has read recently.”

‘There is also a definite spin-off in
terms of University relations,

according to Fure,

though the Office of

Special Programs 1s sepa-

rate and distinct from the
Office of Alumni Affairs.

“People get reconnect-

ed to the University and feel
good about what goes on here
every day,” Fure said. “They have
a chance to see the life of the
University and get to appreciate how

it functions in the lives of students
today.”

It is the people—both those who
teach and those who attend—who have
made the Alumni College so successful.
Susan Yankee, who has attended more
than 21 Alumni Colleges with her hus-
band, Dick °49, said, “People who are
drawn to the Alumni College are inquisi-
tive people with excellent minds. ‘That’s

an attraction that’s hard to beat.”

 

June 23-29: Hearts and Minds—
America During the ’60s

June 30-July 6: ‘The Life and ‘Times
of Napoleon

July 7-13: Cuisine and Culture

July 14-20: China—The Restless
Century, 1900-2000

July 21-27: ‘The Refracted Eye—
A Workshop in Photography

Oct. M-12: Law and Literature—
Ibsen’s An Enemy of the People

Jan. 17-18: Institute for Honor,
Legacies of the Founding Era

 

—

 

fee oe ee ee ee

 

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

 

e were all looking forward to our morning flight
out to the pampas and a ranch belonging to Jorge Estrada ’69. Jeff Barnett, W&L’s
associate professor of Romance languages, drew a difficult assignment that morning:
Deliver a lecture on the gaucho culture to a restless group of travelers waiting at the
gate of a busy airport. He aced the job, imparting valuable background on this roman-

tic part of Argentinean cul-

ture and keeping us occu- CAPTAIN’S LOG:

ied all the while.
pied a oo GAUCHOS ON THE POMPAS
One flight and a bus : oo

ride later; we stepped out
The Play's the Thing into the paradise known as

Santa Isabella Estancia.

 

 

Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest, a new play by

Tom Ziegler, professor of theater, 1s an ee packs

aoe bloomed in a riot of peren-
1870’s vintage event, featuring Mrs. P

nial flowers. Music from a

Fanny Kemble’s farewell performance
local band drifted from the

reading of The Tempest. As she reads

from the Folio, her own tempestuous pool deck. Up high in a

life begins to unfold. Like Prospero, row of eucalyptus trees,

she finds herself “forced from home, parrots squawked at our

intrusion. I enjoyed a stroll
loved ones, country and set adrift on JOY

the open sea.” As she slips in and out through the grounds with

of the characters on Shakespeare’s Kitty McClintock, widow

OO ge age a Lares of the late James William fy so Rt ne ° mee
Maas a ie SEO SC ree Rees Fe 6D*1199 : 5 W&L ALUMNI COLLEGE ABROAD TRAVELERS
Bil McClintock III 53:
as an actress, a star, a lady, a mother, an ENJOY A WALK IN THE GARDEN AT
her musical Southern a re

 

abolitionist, almost a slave and finally a

accent made me think of
triumphant author.

home. We were greeted with wine and offered steaming hot empanadas. After a
‘The production was performed in

demonstration of local folk dance, we were invited to the asado, a traditional barbeque

Charlottesville and Staunton, Va.

of beef, pork, lamb and sausages.
All 30-something guests sat around one long table, with Jorge and his charming
wife, Nancy, at the head. We were served a steady stream of salads and grilled meats.
After a choice of Ver

sweet desserts, we began

TRAVEL DOCKET

Aug. 3-9: Western Canada—From Banff to Vancouver
Aug. 13-22: Village Life in Scotland

Sept. I-13: The Wonders of Alaska

Oct. 15-Nov. I: China: The Yangzi and Beyond

Oct. 15-26: A Moroccan Odyssey

Dean David Howison Dec. 22-28: Christmas in Oaxaca
To Step Down |

a raucous round of intro-
ductions, where each
traveler told the Estradas
a little about himself or

herself. Jorge’s own story

 

of how he became 4 St
dent at W&L in 1967
brought down the house!

We adjourned to a neatly

 

 

David L. Howison, dean of students, manicured field where a demonstration of horsemanship by local gauchos was pre-
will retire after the 2002-03 academic sented. Champagne was offered around, which naturally brought on a chorus of the
year. Howison, who joined W&L as “W&L Swing.” All in all, it was one of the most delightful days of the entire trip.

dean of students in 1990 after 22 years |
—By Nancy Stone, mother of Sanford Stone “05,

at St. Lawrence University in Canton,
and wife of the Hon. Charles Stone ’70, 73L

N.Y., said he wanted to retire at a time

that was suitable for the University,

 

while also accommodating the retire-

 

 

 

7 4 Ee oo a sa ee ee

 

 

 

Young thespians from Washington and Lee took their one-act play on the road—to
Arezzo, Italy, on the edge of ‘Tuscany near Florence.
The students performed “Andrea’s Got ‘Two Boyfriends” by David Willinger, as part of

the International Festival of Short ‘Theater (Teatro Corto), organized by the Piccolo Teatro of

Arezzo, May 23-26.
Cast and Crew included Ruth Esponda ‘US; Peay od a at oes ast

Garth Brown ’02; Nick Ramsey °03; Ibraiz Imani
03. Micah Tolman ’02 and Agnes Flak 03. Lhe

Arezzo

students submitted a proposal, which was forward
for consideration along with a letter of recommen-
dation from W&L Professor Joseph Martinez.

Several small independent theater companies,
or student groups from university level-theater pro-
erams, performed in the beautiful ‘Teatro Petrarca
(the theater is featured in the movie, “Life is
Beautiful”), which seats approximately 600 people.
Two to three groups were selected to perform a
second time in the Petrarca for the final performance of the festival. Each group also was
expected to create an original 10-minute play to be performed on an outdoor stage in the his-
toric center of the city during the festival.

The play performed by W&L students came from this year’s One-Act Festival at the
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Directors are students from the advanced directing
class. “Andrea’s Got ‘Iwo Boyfriends” is a story of three mentally retarded adults—Andrea,
Freddie and Richie—who meet at Crystal park, a self-help facility in upstate New York. They
become friends and lovers, united in their need for acceptance and affection. While the temp-
tation is to stereotype such individuals as “simple” or “naive,” Andrea and her two boyfriends
challenge the audience in the complexity of their personalities, emotions and thoughts. It is
Mike, the empathetic but almost burnt-out social worker, who narrates the lives of the char-

acters in a series of revealing and touching episodes.

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

ment dreams he shares with his wife,
Chris.

“I promised myself that if I was
still on my feet at 60 and had my wits
about me, I would have the good
sense to move on to the next stage of
my life. Well, ’'m 60 now and it’s time
to move on.

“T want to play golf. I want to
work on my chess game and play in
some tournaments. I want to get
involved with the Rockbridge Area
Recreational Organization and help
with the youth recreation program in
Lexington. And, if my body holds up,
I want to win the national champi-
onship in the 800-meter run before
Pm 90."

Howison 1s famous for his warm-
weather practice of holding office in

front of the Co-op.

Jerry Darrell Retires
After 33 Years

Cerald J. “Jerry” Darrell, director of
dining services, retired after 33 years
of | exemplary
service to stu-
dents, faculty,
staff and alumni.

He 1s: the
recipient in re-
cent .-years ef

some of W&L’s

most prestigious

 

awards includ-
ing: honorary W&L alumnus status;
honorary membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national honor orga-
nization launched at W&L 88 years
ago; the Leyburn Award; and, in 1974,
The Ring-tum Phi Award for Outstand-
ing Service to the W&L community.
Darrell founded W&L’s Lip Sync con-
test in the mid-1980s as a fundraiser
for the National Multiple Sclerosis
Society and local food banks; this
year’s event raised $6,000. Darrell has
served on the board of the Blue Ridge

 

 

 

THE Ro eo Ee RD” ee aes se

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

Food Bank,
United Way drive, served as chapter

chaired the campus
advisor to Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity
and chaired the advisory board of St.
Patrick’s Church.

As former Alumni Association
President Jennifer Bray Stratton °89
recalled that Darrell always found a
way to “D-Hall” fun. “The class of
1990 probably will never forget the
freezing Sunday morning in January
when Gerry and the dormitory coun-
selors woke them up with a breakfast
luau in the quadrangle, complete with
and exploding

volleyball sandpit

orange juice volcano.”

Professor Ed Yoder Retires

Edwin M. Yoder Jr., professor of jour-
nalism and humanities, retires this
spring. ‘The
Pulitzer Prize-
winning journal-
ist joined the
W&L faculty in
1992,

courses on the

teaching

literature of jour-

nalism, com-

 

mentary writing

and special topics.

He wrote a syndicated column for
The Washington Post Writers Group
from 1982 until 1997 and formerly
served as associate editor and editorial
writer of The Washington Star, as editor-
ial page editor of The Greensboro Daily
News and as editorial writer for Te
Charlotte News. He also is author of The
Night of the Old South Ball, published in
1984, and The Unmaking of a Whig and
Other Essays, published in 1990.

In retirement, he will continue to
write books. He has two novels in draft
and some short stories in progress, one
of which has been accepted by the

Sewanee Review.

 

 
  

lustration by Mary Woodson

Despite more restrictive administrative sanctions and new alcohol initiatives, Washington

and Lee students racked up more DUIs and more clinic and hospital visits for alcohol and drug

infractions than last year. The good news is that total arrests for alcohol infractions were down.
New policies, which include a three-strike system and the establishment of alcohol-free
University-sponsored tailgates, were decided upon by an Alcohol ‘Task Force comprised of students

faculty, administrators, health officials, alumni and parents and became effective in the fall. The

Interfraternity Council also established guidelines.

At press time, with two weeks to
go in the academic year, there were 83
arrests for alcohol-related violations,
compared to 122 in the 2000-200]
academic year. However, arrests for
driving under the influence for both
law and undergraduate students were
at their highest level since 1998-1999.
‘This year’s DUIs numbered 21, com-
pared to 13 one year ago and 18 in
1998-1999. (Other charges included
drunk in public, minor in possession.)

Seven strikes were issued during
the fall semester (six alcohol, one mar-
ijuana) and 36 were issued during the
winter, including those to 24 fresh-
men (26 alcohol, 10 marijuana). One
student withdrew from the University
after two strikes; another was sus-
pended after receiving a DUI The
Interfraternity Council issued strikes against three fraternities for breaking IFC rules.

Medical statistics also are just as disturbing. Dr. Jane Horton, director of health services, report-
ed that through April 30, 92 students were treated at the Student Health Center, compared to 67 last
year. Emergency room visits numbered 38, compared to 16 last year. So far this year, there have been
three hospitalizations, two for alcohol and one for drugs. Nor have blood-alcohol levels declined.
The average through April was .152, with .08 being the legal limit for driving under the influence.
The highest level was .349; a blood-alcohol level of .45 or above often is lethal.

In one incident reported by The Ring-tum Phi, six Phi Delta Theta members were deactivated
after a freshman pledge was hospitalized at the emergency room for alcohol poisoning. One law stu-
dent, ‘Thomas Moore, died of a drug overdose.

Yet there were some positive results this year.

Washington and Lee was selected for one of five national grants awarded by the National
Highway ‘Traffic Safety Administration and the North American Interfraternity Council (NIC) to
help schools reduce high-risk drinking, The grant funded two “Alcohol Summits” meant to engage
students in dialogue about high-risk drinking in campus culture, develop leadership among Greeks
on the issue and to brainstorm solutions. Subsequently, NIC recognized W&Ls fraternity system
with a certificate of merit for its efforts. (See newsoffice.wlu.edu/NewsReleases/4191)

Another program, “Something of Value,” sponsored by the National Panhellenic Conference,
dealt with issues of risk management. Kappa Kappa Gamma President Julia Simmons 05, of
Atlanta, said, “Everyone felt the day accomplished so much. It informed us of our own liability and
the importance of personal responsibility.”

While progress seems slow, many on campus believe some is being made. University Health
Educator Jan Kaufman said, “Just yesterday, a group of junior fraternity men came to my office ask-
ing how they could help with the alcohol problem on campus. Dialogues such as this were unheard

of prior to this year.” She stressed that increased dialogue between students and the administration

 

 

as

A +A G@ A ef ols ee

 

 

es ee A oe es

 

‘Il be key to reducing the “misuse of alcohol that interferes with academic and personal growth.”
will De KY) | ; .
Additionally, the first alcohol summit resulted in the creation of Generals Advocating Safe Driving

dic ing a more accessible and efficient safe ride system. After sever-
(GASD), a group dedicated to forming .

al months of wo
Traveller uses a dispatcher-coordinated fleet of drivers.

rk, the resulting program, called ‘Traveller, began running seven days a week.

Also this year, LIFE (Lifestyle Information for Everyone), GASD and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-

xity sponsored a program April 25 entitled “Deliberate Driving” to coincide with the kickoff of
termnity

the Travelle
)2. who struck a tree driving intoxicated, and killed a friend.

¢ program. One speaker was Houston high-schooler, Buddy Parsons, brother of Whitney
Parsons “(
GASD committee member Neely Baker ’02, of Jacksonville, Fla., said, “We may not see the

positive effects of this program for several years, but we believe that it is going to be a wonderful

asset to the University.”
Nationally, 1,400 college students die each year and 500,000 are injured in accidents related to

alcohol, according to a new study by the ‘Iask Force on College Drinking of the National Institute

on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.

lowering Accomplishments

 

 

Much to the everyone's delight, citizens and visitors once again can set their watches to the
Lexington Presbyterian Church clock on Main Street. The church steeple was lowered into
place by a crane on March 6, as crowds cheered the
tolling of the church bell just after noon.

The 155-year-old landmark, where Stonewall
Jackson 1s said to have worshipped, was engulfed in fire
on July 18, 2000. Within a few hours, the steeple and
roof had collapsed, leaving only the sandstone walls.

Work on the sanctuary continues, but church offi-
cials are optimistic that services will resume there in

November.

[fe er

 

In April, a new tower to support WLUR was
LL AAS

Ll sae

raised on top of the Pavilion, and the radio station
| resumed broadcasting after 10 months of silence. The
tower replaces one that was damaged when it was

removed for the renovation of Reid Hall for journalism.

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

Harlan Beckley Wins State’s
Highest Academic Award

‘The Virginia legislature honored Harlan
R. Beckley for his extraordinary teaching
and scholarship as one of a handful of
faculty members statewide to win this
year’s Virginia faculty awards from the
State Council of Higher Education.

Beckley is the founding director of
W&Ls Shepherd Program for the
Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and
Human Capability.

Ken Ruscio Elected
President of ODK

Kenneth P. Ruscio "76, professor of poli-
tics and acting associate dean of the
Williams school, was elected president
of Omicron Delta Kappa, marking the
first tme a W&L faculty member has
been chosen to lead the national honor
organization that was launched at
Washington and Lee University in 1914.
(See more on page 44)

Steven C. McAllister Promoted
To VP for Finance

Steven C. McAllister has been promoted
to vice president for finance and treasur-
er. McAllister has
been the assistant
treasurer and
then the associate
vice president for
finance since his
arrival at W&L in
July of 1993.

McAllister — will
take. over . the

 

position from Dr. Lawrence W. Broomall
who has been in the position since June
of 1986. Broomall will begin phased
retirement, working half-time over the
next two years, concentrating on manag-
ing the University’s investment
accounts.

McAllister will be responsible for

coordinating the development and man-

 

W aisha wq.tm nu and

 

feet oe se ae

 

 

agement of budgets for operations, salaries, cap-
ital projects and student financial aid for the
University. Specifically, this entails oversight of
the budget office, the controller’s office, the
business Manager and physical plant. “These
offices have responsibility for over 150 employ-

ees and $8.5 million in budgets.

W&L Debate Team
Continues Ethics Bowl Winning Streak

Washington and Lee University students con-
tinued their winning streak at this year’s Ethics
Bowl competition, tying for first place with
Marymount University, but beating out teams

from 15 other Virginia private colleges in debat-

ing “Civil Liberty and National Security.”

 

Three Times a Winner

Edwin D. Craun, the Henry S. Fox Jr. Professor
of English, has been awarded a $30,000 fellow-
ship by the National Humanities Center—his
third national grant award 1n this academic year.
He will use the awards to support his research
and writing during 2002-03 of the book,
Fraternal Correction: The Ethics of Medheval
English Reformist Literature. Craun also was
the
Library/British Academy, and, earlier this year,

named a fellow’ by Huntington
he was named a National Endowment for the

Humanities fellow.

Credit Worthy

 

W&Ls “Unsung Heroes” Named by
Celebrating Student Success

Nine Wé&L students have been honored as
“unsung heroes” in a new program that recog-
nizes students for their service to others, both on-
campus and in the Lexington-area community.
‘The
engraved Jefferson cup at the Celebrate
Student Success Awards Assembly March 26.

In addition to honoring these winners, Quincy

student winners received an

Springs ’02 , of Roanoke was named the inau-
gural “John W. Elrod Unsung General of the
Year”

Honored for their outstanding contri-
butions:
Jack Robb /'02

(Cumberland, Md.), intramural director, has

¢ Recreation:

expanded the program and provides friendly
but competitive organized athletic contests for
all members of the W&L community;

¢ Performing Arts: Bethany Petrofsky
02 (Lebanon, Conn.) volunteers as a jazz
dance teacher, instrumental as an organizer and
leader of the W&L Dance group, serves as an
officer for the R.E. Belles, choreographed the
recent production of “Godspell;”

¢* Media/Publications: Amanda Adams
02 (Columbia, S.C.), editor of SZe Says, a jour-
nal published by the Women’s Forum. ‘The
journal breaks new ground in showcasing sto-
ries and art by students, faculty and staff;

¢«- Student Government: Amy Burke '02
(East Amherst, N.Y.) organized and led a group
of students who met with University adminis-
trators and faculty members each week over
the course of several months to formulate rec-
ommended reforms in the Student Faculty
Hearing Board process;

¢* Environmental/General Organiza-
tions: Helen Downes ’O2 (Granville, Ohio), a dri-
ving force behind environmental concerns on
campus, including campus recycling efforts and
successful Earth Day programs. She also is a
volunteer teacher at Boxerwood Gardens;

¢ Community Service: Scott Putney '03
(Richmond),
Lexington Rescue Squad, he answers 40-70

an active member of the

calls a month, doing four, 12-hour night shifts.
He saved a life through CPR;

 

¢ Greek Life: Brent Keene '02 (Rome,
Ga.) Inter-Fraternity Council vice president, he
oversaw the publication of rush books and
supervised one of the most successful recruit
ment campaigns, with 78% of the men in the
freshmen class receiving bids, a 10 percent
increase over last year;

¢ Religious Life: Graham Frankel '92
(Roslyn, N.Y.), vibrant leader of Hillel, expand-
ing and sustaining Jewish life on campus
through religious services, discussion groups
and community service projects;

¢* Social/Programming: Lisa Jones’02(E]
Centro, Calif.), logistics coordinator for the
Student Activities Board, handles visiting
artists’ and entertainers’ requests and needs

from their arrival to departure.

Bridging the Ravine

Cerald Titus '00, ’O3L, of Spencer, W.Va., is the
new president of the Executive Committee.
Kempton Presley 703,
of Nashville, ‘Tenn., is
vice president and
Helen Hughes 04, of
Greenville, S.C., is sec-
retary.

‘Titus previously
served as the Law
School’s representative
on the EC. He said, “Serving as Executive
Committee president is a great honor for me. I
want to continue the EC’s efforts to ensure the
faculty’s continued confidence and sup-
port, which has always been a vital compo-
nent of the Honor System. I also hope to
address the issue of improper use of
Internet resources in the academic setting,
which is becoming a concern across the

nation.”

Preservation Award

The Preservation Society of Virginia hon-
ored Washington and Lee University with
a statewide award for its renovation of the
Lee Chapel museum in a ceremony 0?
Saturday, April 13 in Fredericksburg. W&L

is the first university to receive the award,

 

Le one MEME As DD vag rads

MA AS Ge RZ 2 Pe Ne E

 

 

Photo by Blair Manning ‘02

 

THE OO ee

 

nn and Vedan ‘Thompson and their three girls moved into their

w home the Friday before Christmas. For years, they only dreamed of such a precious gift. “We are
ne

till shocked; it is hard to believe we have something to call our own,” said Vedan ‘Thompson, after
S ’

their home dedication in March. The house they had lived in previously “was in bad shape, practical-

ly falling d
The W&L Habitat for Humanity chapter answered the ‘Thompsons’ prayers. About two years

own,” he said. He and his wife desperately “wanted something better for the children.”

ago, the campus chapter set a goal
of sponsoring its own Habitat
‘Thanks

fundraising, less than a year later,

house. to full-time
students started construction on
the ‘Thompsons’ house, digging
into the practically frozen ground.

‘To raise money, the chapter
auctioned eligible bachelors,
organized barn dances and bowl-
ing tournaments. Members
encouraged students to Skip-A-
Meal for Habitat at the Dining
Hall. And they started “Habitat
Hotel” for Parents’ Weekend; vis-
iting parents stay in private
homes belonging to staff and pro-
fessors and donate the room
charge to the organization.
‘Thanks to alumni, parents, and
the W&L community, the chap-
ter raised over $37,000. An anony-

gave $10,000.

 

mous donor

However, raising the money was only half of the job.

Fraternities, sororities, the Freshmen Leadership Council, Generals’ Christian Fellowship, APO
service fraternity and W&L faculty and alumni were involved in the construction. Katherine Thomas
04 was amazed how much her group could accomplish in just one day at the work site. W&L fresh-
man Jeremiah McWilliams said, “It was incredibly gratifying and exciting to see our work take shape
during construction.”

The ‘Thompsons had a role, too. After they applied for a Habitat House, they had to contribute
at least 500 hours of sweat equity toward construction.

Through Habitat, hundreds of W&L students have made an impact on the community: not only
by building houses but also by building relationships and tearing down stereotypes that some residents
have of students. The ‘Thompsons described working alongside W&L students as a privilege.
MeWilliams ’05 enjoyed learning the nuts and bolts of construction, but more important, he “learned
the satisfaction that comes from helping others, giving them the means to create a bright future for
themselves.”

Habitat President Jill Bailey ’03 said, “Habitat is such a special organization because it fulfills peo-
ple’s hopes, giving them the opportunity to be part of a community and raise their families in a safe,
comfortable setting. It is so rewarding to give a little of yourself, your time, your money to make a per-
manent, life-changing impact for someone else, especially a family living within a few blocks of cam-

Pus.”

The students’ next project? A home in Buena Vista. —By Blair Manning °02

 

Bookshelf

 

Sisters or Mapes

: The Tragic Heroine Across Cultures

 

From Tragic Heroines
To Refugees

Domnica Radulescu, associate professor
of Romance languages, published Rea/ms
of Exile: Nomadism, Diasporas and Eastern
European Voices (Rowman and Littlefield
Publishing, 2002), an edited collection of
essays that offers a poignant image of the
drama of exile, and Szsters of Medea: The
Tragic Heroine Across Cultures, a panoram-
ic view of heroines from various historical

periods and geographical areas.

  

Lively Discussions

Suzanne Keen, professor of English at
W&L, has published her second book of
literary criticism, Romances of the Archive in
Contemporary British Fiction (University of
‘Toronto Press). It contains a lively discus-
sion of the debates about the uses of the
past in British fiction since the Falklands

CriSIs.

 

Washington and

THE Cc Oot ON NA DOS

 

 

Bookshelf

BOHR) UR DFTA

  

Old Work, New Perspective

Politics Professor William Connelly recently
published an introduction to a new edition
of Woodrow Wilson’s

Congressional Government: A Study in American

seminal work,
Politics. Wilson’s work, originally published
when he was a 28-year-old graduate student
who had never visited Congress, as
Connelly argues, remains a significant study

of the workings of Congress.

By Howard L. Steele, At.0.

FOODSOLDIER

 
  

Sheep’s Eye Stew and
Other Adventures

Howard Steele '50, who served in the
Foreign Agricultural Service of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, survived gun-
toting Bolivian revolutionaries, Viet Cong
mortar and rifle fire, deadly anarchy in Sri
Lanka, a shakedown by ‘Tanzanian police
and lived to tell about it in ood Solder,
light-hearted travelogue.

Summer Reading

Ross Buckner '79 covers it all in
Whispered Angel, a tale of tenderness and
wickedness that tests the strength of fam-

ily, friendship and love in a crucible of

executive immorality, domestic violence

and cruel circumstances.

  

Language Lesson

Want to brush up on your French?
Philippe Labro '58 has released a new
book of essays, Je Connais Gens de Toutes
Sortes (1 Know Men of All Kinds), with
pieces on John F. Kennedy, Woody Allen,
Francois Mitterand and André Malraux,

among others.

 

Matters of Faith

Donald D. Hook '50, professor emeritus
at ‘Irinity College, Hartford, Conn.,
attempts to help disillusioned Christians
of all persuasions with steps to overcome
that dissatisfaction in Sw7tching Churches: A

Layman’s Guide to a New Commitment.

 

Fantasy or Memory?

Andrew C. Hollinger '73 entertains with
a first novel, Lex: Reminiscences of a Late
60s student.

 

Dances With Dragons

 

Students “Danced with the Dragon” March 26
during the 95th annual Fancy Dress Ball. This
year’s affair was themed after a Chinese
Imperial celebration. While many female stu-
dents struggled to find suitable evening wear
in Lexington, many venturing as far abroad as
Charlottesville, Roanoke, Richmond or
Washington, none faced the challenge of cos-
tuming customary to the ball for many years. If
it weren’t for the theme of 1999’s dance, “La
Ball Masque: A Renaissance of the Original,”
many students may never have realized that
Fancy Dress was, until the 1960s, a costume
affair.

Judy Hotchkiss, wife of former adminis-
trator Farris Hotchkiss °58 and a graduate of
Hollins University, recalls how embarrassing it
was to obtain the necessary outfits. “You had to
give your date your measurements so he could
order your costume,” she said, “and they never
fit right, because we never wanted to give
them our correct measurements.” She remem-
bers dressing up as a member of the Prussian
court, complete with an elaborate white wig
and a full hoop skirt.

Senior Cynthia Smith described her
preparation this year as comparatively simple:
“T borrowed my sister’s dress, did my makeup
and was done. It probably took me about half
an hour to get ready.” Another student spent
more than $200 on her dress alone. Yet no one
chose a kimono, in spite of the Oriental theme-

However different ball preparations are
from one decade to the next, it is important C0
note that the more things change, the more
they stay the same, especially at W&L. Even
in this day and age, women don’t get to ask the
—Sally Mays °0?

men. *&

 

 

Washing

 

 

 

 

 

The execution last suramer of Timothy McVeigh was one of the biggest
¢ 2001. He had been convicted of killing 168 people by

news stories 0
| courthouse in Oklahoma City, and his was the first

bombing the federa
federal execution in nearly 40 years.
Eight days later, the second
tion in nearly 40 years —
Idwide media

federal execu
drew no such wor
attention, and this disturbed Greg-
orv Wiercioch ’92L.
| Wiercioch’s long and creative
effort to save the life of Juan Raul
Garza had been based upon discrimination he alleged
in the way federal authorities seek the death penalty.
“Our fear was exactly what happened,” Wiercioch

said. “Someone else got out in front of Juan Garza, and

Greg Wiercioch

Against All Odds

To Make a Difference

Wiercioch will receive the

 

Hartson and the Kaye Scholer law firm in New York, sought to commute
Garza’s sentence to life in prison without the possibility of parole.
“The problem we faced initially was that a federal death row prison-
er hadn’t gone through the
'92L Fights clemency process since 1963,”
Wiercioch said. A clemency
request form for a federal death
row prisoner didn’t even exist.
Wiercioch’s legal team was “taken
aback” when in March of 2000,
Garza’s execution was set for Aug.,
5, 2000. ‘The Department of Justice was still in the
process of writing guidelines for filing a clemency
appeal for federal death row inmates. ‘Then, just three

days before Garza’s scheduled execution, President

we were absolutely thwarted in our ability e ae Honorary Order ate Clinton granted a reprieve - bugeokn could take

message out that the federal death penalty is racially ; : advantage of the new provisions for filing a federal
as, ; Coif Award during

and geographically biased. ‘The public sees McVeigh, a clemency appeal.

white person, who committed a horrific crime, and Homecoming Weekend Underpinning Garza’s clemency appeals process

evervone is chanting for his death. McVeigh is an aber- Oct. 3-5 was a Department of Justice report released on Sept. 12,

ration. Most federal death row inmates are not white, 2000, the day before his

and most are not there for killing 168 people.”

Wiercioch said he pursued law school with the
actual intention of working in death penalty defense.
Professor Bill Geimer, emeritus, and the Virginia Capital Case
Clearinghouse, now run by Professor Roger Groot, made a huge impres-
sion on him. “Working closely with Professor Geimer during the summer
between my second and third years confirmed my desire,” he said. “ Chat
work made me realize that often the only difference between life and
death in many capital cases is the quality of the representation, and that
most people on death row... don’t have the money to hire good attorneys.
I thought this factor was one that I could try to do something about.”
Wiercioch, now of Houston’s non-profit Texas Defender Service, has ded-
icated his legal career to representing death row inmates during the
appeals stage, and often he has turned to his W&L professors—including
Scott Sundby and Roger Groot —for help.

Juan Garza’s case, unprecedented in many ways, brought Wiercioch
to this central question: Why did the U.S. seek the death penalty against
Juan Garza, but not against prisoners who had committed worse crimes?

“Our main focus was that we could point to a number of cases
Worse than Garza’s where the government never even sought the death
penalty,” Wiercioch said. “We felt the burden was on the government to

show that there was not racial bias in the decision to seek the death

penalty.”

Z Garza was sentenced to die in 1993 under the Federal Drug
Kingpin Act for the murders of three men involved in the marijuana
peeling ting he operated out of Brownsville, Texas. Wiercioch was
appointed to Garza’s case in 1996 to handle his appeals. His legal team,
Which included lawyers from the Washington law firm of Hogan &

tt

GR J 3
EG WIERCIOCH, A MEMBER OF THE LAW REVIEW WHILE A STUDENT,
QUESTIONS RACIAL BIAS IN DEATH ROW CASES.

Jill Kosch 00

clemency petition

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 

was due. The sta-
tistical study indi-
cated that there are racial and geo-
eraphic disparities in the federal
death penalty system. ‘The report
showed that 80 percent of defen-
dants in federal capital cases are
minorities. Forty percent of the applica-
tions for the death penalty came from
federal prosecutors in five dis-
tricts. At the time of Garza’s
execution, six of the 18
men on federal death
row were convicted
in ‘Texas. Attorney
General Janet
Reno and Deputy
Attorney Gen-
eral Eric Holder
acknowledged
that they were
troubled by the
statistics and
called for fur-
ther analysis.

In the wan-

ing days of his

 

Washington and

 

tne ee a kim i

Ma A @G Ke 24 RY E

 

 

administration, President Clinton issued a second reprieve—rather than
the clemency Wiercioch had hoped—and ordered the Department of
Justice to complete a follow-up study by April.

In states with no death penalty, the U.S. attorney might set a higher
bar for seeking the federal death penalty than attorneys in death penalty
states, Wiercioch said. So if Juan Garza had been white and from
Massachusetts, which has no state death penalty, might the federal death
penalty not have been pursued against him?

Wiercioch says the heart of the problem lies in the “unbridled dis-
cretion” the 94 U.S. Attorneys have in deciding whether to pursue the
death penalty in a particular case. He sees a dearth of uniform standards
guiding such decisions as the cause for disparities, not blatant racism.

“You can’t move forward with executions until you study cases that
could have been prosecuted as federal capital criminal cases but weren't.
‘The study has to delve into local factors ‘why are like cases being pursued
differently?’ ”

‘This is exactly the question Wiercioch says wasn’t answered in the
follow-up report released on June 6, 2001, which fell under the oversight
of Attorney General John Ashcroft after George W. Bush became presi-
dent. ‘The Ashcroft report found “no evidence that minority defendants
are subjected to bias or otherwise disfavored in decisions concerning capi-
tal punishment.” But Wiercioch says this conclusion doesn’t reflect con-
sideration of several important questions. Among the report’s failings,
Wiercioch says, are a misleading focus on intentional discrimination, a lack
of explanation for why the death penalty is sought more often for defen-
dants accused of drug-related homicides than for white mob racketeering-
related homicides, and an absence of documentation or analysis of the
racial disparities in those who accept plea bargains after authorization of
federal capital prosecution (nearly half of white defendants accept plea bar-
gains compared with 25 percent for blacks and 28 percent for Hispanics).

‘Though it may leave questions unanswered, the report does set forth
revisions to procedures in the federal death penalty process. ‘Che
Department of Justice will require U.S. Attorneys in the future to submit
racial and ethnic information about potential capital cases as well as those
that are actually charged as capital crimes. ‘The approval of the Attorney
General will be mandatory both for decisions to seek a capital sentence

and for decisions not to seek a capital sentence.

  

BUSH SEAS De a a

\ s Nes ae rd

   

The School of Law is ranked the I8th best legal program in the nation— moving up from. 20

according to new rankings by U.S. News @ World Report, published April 8. | :
Rankings are based on a numerous statistical indicators that reflect the strength of a school’s. faculieg res¢

and the ee of its students both as they enter and leave law school. Expert epee is the other 7 e

‘The magazine also measures career placement and state bar examination passage rates. At W&L, mee the
percent of law students have jobs waiting upon graduation, with 97 percent employed no later than nine months
graduation. About 95 percent of W&L law students pass the bar exam on the first try. |
“Our advanced standing [in U.S. News] this year is significant,”

 

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
 

Meanwhile, Wiercioch’s team pursued other avenues to seek.
clemency for Garza. In a separate legal strategy, they attempted to use a
U.S. Supreme Court decision reached in Shafer v. South Carolina to argue
that Garza’s jury should have been instructed that he would automatical-
ly be sentenced to life in prison without parole if the jury did not sentence
him to death. ‘They sought and won a decision from the Inter-American
Commission on Human Rights, an arm of the Organization of American
States, that the United States’ case
against Garza violated treaty obligations
under the OAS charter and _ the
American Declaration. Another W&L

law professor, Rick Kaurgis,

“When future generations
you what you did when ¢ |
“provided terrible things were happe
enormous assistance to me in Juan in your midst, you can say tf

you did not stand idly by ;

remain silent.”

Garza’s case,” said Wiercioch. Kirgis, a
specialist in the field of international law,
“eraciously lent us his expertise on very
short notice when we were attempting to
get the U.S. courts to enforce a final decision of the Inter-American
Commission on Human Rights.”

On June 14, 2001, the Commission sent a letter to Secretary of State
Colin Powell asking what measures the United States had taken “to
implement the Commission’s recommendations in this case, including
commutation of Mr. Garza’s death sentence.” Four days later, President
Bush rejected a final clemency appeal. ‘The next day, Garza was executed
in the same ‘lerre Haute federal penitentiary where McVeigh had been
put to death.

Attorney General Ashcroft maintained that there was no racial bias in
Garza’s case and that his guilt was not in doubt. He told the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram that the judge, prosecutor and most of the jurors in Garza’s
case were Hispanic.

Of the two dozen death row inmates Wiercioch has represented, the
courts have reversed the death sentence for one. But he measures success
in time—in the extra weeks, months and years that he is able to keep his
clients alive.

“All we can do is bear witness,” he said. “When future generations
ask you what you did when these terrible things were happening in your

midst, you can say that you did not stand idly by and remain silent.”

 

   
 

 
 

 
   
 
  
 

  

   
 

  

said Dean David F. Partlett. ~ | ie ndicaton

  

 

\~ * 42h at gp gp toe and

 

Me A bv em a

Mi A -@ 4A 22s te NEE

 

 

OEE ee

about whether to come,” said Wolf. Queries about financial aid, scholar-

From scholarship

settl
Washington and Lee
chat room has found its place in
the admissions process.

W&L was one of four law
schools selected by the Law
School Admission Council to

participate in a national pilot

program to evaluate Interaction
Software’s Internet chat-room.
During an evening and a lunch-
hour session in F ebruary, five
students—Christy McQuality
02, Caryn Rivett 02, Michelle
Rosenthal °04, Dan Wolf °04
and Philip Yoon ’04 —answered
prospective students’ questions
in one room, while admissions
and career services staff fielded
queries in another.

“This technology is a nat-
ural for us, because W&L 1s not
the easiest place to get to,” said
Susan Palmer °85, associate
dean of student affairs and
admissions. “Wé&L has always

prided itself on its accessibili-

s to sushi, prospective students used technology to
questions of interest and concern about whether to make
e ston

and Lexington their top choice to study law. Yes, the

 

Prospective Students

Lets Chat

Enlist the Internet

SUSAN PALMER, ASSOCIATE DEAN OF STUDENT AFFAIRS AND
ADMISSIONS AND SIDNEY EVANS, ADMISSIONS DIRECTOR,
PARTICIPATED IN CHAT-ROOM DISCUSSIONS WITH PROSPECTIVE
STUDENTS. ALSO ANSWERING QUESTIONS WERE PHILIP YOON,
MICHELLE ROSENTHAL AND DAN WOLF, ALL MEMBERS OF
THE CLASS OF ’O4L WHO WERE IN THE SAME
DECISION-MAKING MODE JUST A YEAR AGO.

ships, alumni networks, summer and post-graduate job opportunities

were answered by students and Law School admissions staff alike, while

students were asked about
housing and the real low-down
on living in a small town.

“Sushi appears to be a pop-
ular item that’s missing from
Lexington,” said Philip Yoon 04.
Questions about ‘Thai and
Japanese food were thrown in
among those about nightlife.
Rosenthal, a_ self-proclaimed
married old fogy, learned along
with admitted students that
‘Thursday is karaoke night at
B.J.’s Oasis. “We represented
different experiences and _ per-
spectives,” said Rosenthal,
“married, single, entering from
college or the work place,
minority, East Coast, West
Coast, dog owners.”

Several prospective stu-
dents voiced concerns about
being liberal and not fitting in at
W&L. “There is the perception

that W&L is a conservative

ty—this gives us another way to
provide access.” Sidney Evans,
admissions director, added, “The chat-room format gave prospective stu-
dents the chance to ask a broad range of questions in real time, in a for-
mat that they are comfortable with. It also affirmed that even though
W&L is in a small town, we are using cutting-edge technology.”

The five student volunteers were unanimously positive about the
experience. “This software should definitely be adopted. Prospective

students got a lot out of it. It helped them make an informed decision

by U.S. News that bear on the quality of student life and the quality of legal education are extremely favorable
to Washington and Lee. The hard work of the law school bears fruit in these rankings and in many other ways.
Our student-law faculty ratio of 11-to-1 is second only to Yale’s,” added Partlett.

The latest U.S. News postings list Yale, Stanford, Harvard, Columbia and New York universities as the coun-
try's top five leaders, respectively. In the Southeast, Duke’s law school was ranked at 12th place; Georgetown at
14th; Vanderbilt at 17th; Emory at 22; William and Mary at 32; Wake Forest at 36; George Mason at 47; University

of Virginia tied three other schools for 7th place.

6 The School of Law also was named “Best Value” among private law schools in the nation in the March issue of
€ National Jurist magazine. W&L shared the ranking with Wake Forest University and Lewis and Clark College.

 

school,” said Rosenthal. “We
told them that a broad spectrum
of viewpoints is represented here.” Wolf added, “We had a lot of ques-
tions about the Honor System and its real-life implications.”

Added Rosenthal, “This generation is so tech literate, the chat for-
mat is an ideal means of communication. It is fairly anonymous, so it’s a
safe way to ask questions that might otherwise be embarrassing.” Yoon
agreed, “It was a great experience. I wish I had had the opportunity to

chat with students before I came.” 4 —tLort Stevens

TEU cr

Best School
Money

  
  

 
  
 

 

 

Time to transfer? « Minority hiring stalls

  

 

Like many college seniors, Washington and Lee’s Julie Carskadon spent
the year anguishing over tests, research papers, the social scene and the
job search process. She also had the pressure of performing for the W&L
lacrosse team. However, nothing prepared her for the added stress the
year held in store.

Carskadon’s father, mother and sister are all members of the United
States Air Force Reserves,
and they have been on alert
since the unforgettable

events of last Sept. 11. Her

  

father, Gen. Bruce Carskadon
has been working at the
Pentagon since Jan. 1. Her
mother, Col. Linda Carskadon, is stationed at McGuire Air Force Base,
New Jersey, where she is the commander of an aeromedical staging
squadron. And 1st Lt. Amy Carskadon, Julie’s 25-year-
old sister has just returned from deployment in the
Middle East.

“Having my family in the line of work that they
are makes me appreciate them more each day,”
Carskadon said.

As events unfolded on Sept. 11, Carskadon forgot
all about the tests, papers and lacrosse. Her thoughts
turned to sister Amy, who’s full-time civilian job is with
the United States Defense Intelligence Agency. Amy

was scheduled for a meeting that morning at the

GENERALS’ REPORT

Defender Julie Carskadon '02

 

Honors Family With Play

“| knew that she was
OK, but I also knew that

she was going to be sent
somewhere to help fight

for the country.”

Greg Murphy

 

 

Pentagon. Fortunately, she had decided to take the day off.

“That was a tough day for me,” Carskadon recalled. “I knew that she
was OK, but I also knew that she was going to be sent somewhere to help
fight for the country.”

Carskadon’s premonition was correct, Amy was sent to the Middle
East less than one month later to serve as an intelligence officer, analyzing
incoming information and
briefing air crews before
missions. ‘That deployment

lasted until December, then

 

she was sent again from
February to April.

“She’s always in the
back of my mind,” Carskadon said. “We e-mail one another all the ime
and try to talk once a week.” Carskadon also keeps in regular touch with
her parents. “I tend to talk to my mom everyday and to
my dad a few times during the week.”

‘Tough as it was, Carskadon turned her attention
to school and lacrosse with the support of those around
her. Her family is at the center of that circle. Even with
their hectic schedules, Carskadon’s parents made It 4
priority to attend as many weekend games as possible.
“Having my parents at games cheering me on is very
special,” Carskadon said. “Whenever they came © a
game, I made it a point to thank them. I never used to

do that, but it became easy to do.”

 

 

 

 

  

 

Atheletic skill
four-years

tota

the Moorestown field hockey squad to the

state championship in 1995.

High school success carried over to
WA&L, as she started 14 of 15 games as a fresh-
man. [he 5-foot-/ Carskadon showed tremen-
dous promise, tallying nine goals during her

ampaign. However, a knee injury the

rookie Cc
following season limited her sophomore cam-
paign to just seven games.

“That time period was very tough on me
mentally, because I wanted to be out on the
field with my teammates. | am an active per-

son, so I hated sitting on the sidelines watching
games, ” she said.

The hard work and perseverance during
rehabilitation paid off the following year as she
started all 19 games and recorded seven points
on four goals and three assists. However,
Carskadon was still not where she wanted to
be. “I played with a brace last season, which
slowed me down,” she said. “I worked hard to
get back into top shape. Every time I took the

field, I laid it all on the line.”

Even with all that was on her mind this year, Carskadon enjoyed her
finest season at W&L. A starter in every game, she recorded 17 points on
13 goals and four assists and led the team with 73 ground balls. ‘The
women’s lacrosse team finished the season 11-6, including a 7-1 mark in
conference play. Wé& Ls season ended with a one-goal loss to Randolph-

Macon in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Championship game

always has come easily for Carskadon. During her
at Moorestown High School in Moorestown, N.J., she earned a

| of nine letters including three in lacrosse. Carskadon also helped lead
: S,

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

All-ODAC team.

JULIE CARSKADONS PLAYED HER
HEART OUT THIS SEASON, IN SPITE OF
WORRIES ABOUT HER MILITARY FAMILY.

 

April 28. Carskadon was one of four W&L players to be named First Team

On a team with only four seniors and three juniors, Carskadon knew

she would need to assume a large leadership
role this season. “I Knew coming into the sea-
son that we would have a fairly young team,”
she said. “I wanted to play every game as hard
as I could to do whatever it took to win.”

During her four years, the W&L lacrosse
team has compiled an overall record of 39-21,
including a 28-4 mark in the ODAC. In addi-
tion, Carskadon’s play in 2001 helped the
Generals claim the ODAC ‘Tournament
Championship and a berth in the NCAA
Division II ‘lournament for the first time
since 1998. ‘The Generals won a school-record
15 games against just four losses, and
Carskadon was a key component of a W&L
defense, which allowed just 6.16 goals per con-
test.

Ive enjoyed playing at W&L,” said
Carskadon. “My career has been filled with
some great memories that I would not trade for
anything. Choosing to attend Washington and
Lee was the best decision of my life,” she said.

“[’ve learned so much about myself as a per-

son, which I can apply to the future.”

As for the future, Carskadon, who majored in business and Spanish,
remains unsure about she will do upon graduation. However, with three
family members involved in the military, there will always be one career
opportunity open to her. “I can always get a government job. It seems like

the thing to do in my family,” she laughed.

2002 ATHLETIC HALL OF FAME CLASS ANNOUNCED

The Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame will induct six new
members in a ceremony to be held on campus Friday, Sept. 13. The
group also will be recognized at halftime of the Generals’ football
game with Johns Hopkins on Sept. 14.

The 2001 class of Lee Marshall °57, Mike Pressler ’82, Tim
Stanford ’86 and Gary Fallon are slated for induction along with a 2002

aa found-upe class consisting of Edgar Boyd

and stats, go to

athletics.wlu.edu The induction of the 2001 class

was delayed due to the events

 

of Sept. 11, so both classes will be honored at this fall’s ceremony. —
Boyd played lacrosse, freshman football and freshman basket-
ball and is generally considered to be one of W&L’ first top lacrosse
Players. Official records date only to the first varsity season of 1947;
however, Boyd is listed as an honorable mention All-American for

the 1940 and 1941 seasons. Cartwright was a four-year letter winner

42 and Mel Cartwright °70.

in basketball, earning Associated Press Little All-America honors in
1967 and 1970. He led the team in scoring all four years and remains
W&Ls all-time leading rebounder (1,079 reb.) and third all-time

leading scorer (1,800 points) and is one of only two players in school

history to amass over 1,000 career points and rebounds.
Marshall remains one of the most prolific scorers in the history of
Washington and Lee basketball. He ranks sixth all-time at

Washington and Lee with 1,561 career points.

Pressler was one of Washington and Lee’s top two-sport athletes in

late 1970's and early 1980's. A four-year starter for both the football and

lacrosse teams, Pressler served as team captain in both sports during his
senior year. Stanford belonged to swimming and water polo teams.
Fallon served as head football coach from 1978 until his death in the

spring of 1995. He is the winningest football coach in school history

having posted a 77-84-1 overall record. He was ODAC Coach of the

- Year in 1981, 1988 and 1992. %

 

Washington oe

 

MA 2 £228 Nt

 

 

 

The classroom comes to life as Walter Kansteiner ‘77;
assistant secretary of state for African affairs,
shares insights into Africa’s role in the war

on terrorism. BY WZ cAN Lovell 0

Oo Be

©

 

‘ay of March, an unusually warm Friday, and students and faculty seem to be enjoying this break in winter.

It’s the first day
in front of ft
relaxed ma
assistant sé

tions are pi

Parr rae oe re ee ee ee ee a ee, ee ee
aaa 6 8 48
ase © °

Kansteiner is Secretary of State Colin Powell’s go-to guy on Africa.

He’s responsible for 44 embassies and 5,200 employees. ‘Terrorism
currently tops
his world with students, other faculty members and local

his list of issues to manage. But today, he is in Lexing-
ton to share
citizens in Politics Professor Bob Strong’s course on terrorism.

Africa always has been a concern for U.S. policymakers, but after
Sept. 11, it has earned the role of understudy to Afghanistan. With its
history of instability, civil wars and unrest, Africa is an easy draw for
terrorist organizations like al-Oaeda, Kansteiner told the class. “The
United States has good reason to keep a trained eye on the continent.

“Africa has had an unfortunate, long involvement with terrorism
in the last 15 to 20 years because it’s susceptible to terrorist infiltra-
tion,” explained Kansteiner. “It has porous borders. It’s big. And with
its lack of regulatory mechanisms and unregulated banks, it’s easy
[for people and money] to pass through unnoticed.”

A strong Islamic presence in Africa makes it natural for Muslims
to move through the nations, Kansteiner added. While these coun-
tries don’t support extremism, they do provide a cover for Muslim
extremists to move in and out. Add to that the history of religious
strife between Arab Muslims and black Christians, and there is
greater instability that is attractive to terrorist cells.

The United States’ current clash with Osama bin Laden and
al-Oaeda links to the 1998 attacks on two U.S. embassies in Africa.
“The embassy attacks were al-Qaeda’s welcome to the United States
in Africa,” said the assistant secretary. “ It was bin Laden’s first poke
at the U.S. [from Africa], and it was a deadly one.”

Poor intelligence gathering and weak regional infrastructures
made the United States quite susceptible to the attacks on the
embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Both
bombings left 224 people dead, including 12 Americans. Within
weeks of the attacks, a picture of who was responsible began to form,
and within months, it was clear to U.S. officials that bin Laden’s prints
were all over it, said Kansteiner.

Conclusions made in the aftermath of Sept. 11 link some of the
People involved in the 1998 bombings to the attacks in New York and
Washington. “We think that a fair number of the al-Qaeda people
| Pporting the events on Sept. 11 did transit through Africa,” added
Kansteiner. “At least a third of them came through Africa in the year
or two before they arrived in our country and Europe.”

Preventing this flow of money and terrorists has been key for
Kansteiner and the Bush administration in recent months. The assis-
ae petetary feels confident that there are no longer active terrorist
faining camps in Africa, but he knows the United States cannot shut

Out th \ oge : lies j ‘
© presence of these cells entirely. Countries in East Africa like

~-ience Center, a distinguished gentleman takes advantage of the sun while talking on a cell phone. His
and casual appearance belie the important nature of his conversation. Walter H. Kansteiner III 77,
tary of state for African affairs, is being briefed on a developing situation in Madagascar. Military fac-

ing to switch allegiances from one presidential contender to another, and the chance of violence is high.

oo ae Bee 6k a 6 0 0 Sle 6 6.0 6m 8 Oe Oe 6 8 6 6 8 © Ole Ree 0:96 © © 6 6 Bie a8 8 68 4 4 OOO ee 6 Oe OE OO 8.6 Oe 6 ew Ot

Somalia, Sudan, Kenya and Ethiopia top Kansteiner’s list of hot
spots due, in part, to their proximity to the Middle East.

With its lack of a central government, warlords vying for
dominance and an underdeveloped economy, Somalia presents the
ereatest chance of letting the seeds of international terrorism and
lawlessness take root, said Kansteiner. ‘The U. S., which has not
paid much attention to the country since the early ’90s, is sitting up
and taking notice now.

“In the short term in Somalia, the U.S. is going to [militarily]
attack cells that are actively passing money or targeting American
interests,” said Kansteiner. “In the mid- to long-term, we want to
build up institutions, help governments get back on their feet and,
if need be, create governments where none exist.”

Kansteiner’s approach to the immediate threat of terrorism is not
that different from his direction on Africa as a whole. A stronger Africa
ultimately means an economically successful Africa, he said, and
he’s fairly optimistic the goal can be achieved in time. “If Africans
have jobs and are earning a fair wage, they’re going to be a lot

less interested in participating in a terrorist cell,” said Kansteiner.

 

Kansteiner is a surprise on two fronts. His preppy looks and wardrobe
suggest “golf pro” or “banker,” not someone who has dodged
guerilla bullets in Africa or spends his private hours milking cows.
Yet Kansteiner is indeed a diplomat and farmer. With his wife,
Franny, who he met at a W&L classmate’s wedding, a 16-year-old
daughter and a 10-year-old son, he raises horses, goats, chickens, cows
and sheep on a 100-acre farm in Northern Virginia. Every family
member has a role in the farm. ‘hey grow the hay to feed their
animals, and their organic farm provides enough milk for four families
and most of the meat and vegetables they eat.

“[’m probably the only guy at the senior staff level who has
milked a cow on any given day,” said Kansteiner. And when one gets
up with the cows, the day is well underway by the time most people
are having their first cup of coffee. By his 8:30 a.m. staff meeting,
Kansteiner already has used his early East Coast morning to stay 1n
touch with the African embassies.

Farming has another advantage. It has proven to be a cultural
bridge in his dealings overseas. “It gives us a very useful vocabulary,”
said Franny Kansteiner. Once, for example, a U.S. Secretary of
Agriculture unknowingly shocked a group of 50 to 60 African finance
ministers when she introduced Kansteiner, saying he owned one
milking cow. In African culture, wealth is measured by the number

of cows a person owns. While her introduction was accurate, the

 

Washington and

=a

i eee

 

INAS A Gr P Ane Zoe SN GE

comment evoked some raised eyebrows. Kansteiner saved the day
by telling the audience that in addition to a lone Jersey cow, he and
his wife own many beef cattle, redeeming his status.

It was, in fact, agriculture that joined Kansteiner’s career to Africa.
Soon after his graduation from Washington and Lee, the history major
waded into African economics when he joined his family’s Chicago-
based commodity trading and processing company. ‘lhe company
specialized in coffee, cocoa and sugar. ‘That exposure affected his pur-
suit of a graduate degree in international economics at American
University in Washington.

‘The Kansteiners moved to South Africa in the early ’80s so that
he could research and write a thesis on African agricultural trading
systems. It was a great opportunity for a graduate student but a diffi-
cult time to be a resident of South Africa in light of apartheid. Despite
the political climate, the young couple, both outdoor enthusiasts, took
advantage of the chance to go on safari, hike and do a little farming.
In spite of the continent’s political unrest, Kansteiner was smitten
with its beauty and potential. He was hooked.

Upon the couple’s return to the United
States, Kansteiner thought he heard another
call, the voice of the Episcopal church. “I loved
the study at seminary, but I just wasn’t cut out
to be a parish priest,” he explained of his time
at Virginia ‘Theological Seminary in
Alexandria, Va. ‘he experience wasn’t wasted.

Kansteiner paired his seminary education
and experience in Africa as director of eco-
nomic studies at the Institute on Religion and
Democracy, a Washington think tank, and
authored South Africa: Revolution or Reconciliation? \n the book pub-
lished in 1988, he concluded that pursuit of a democratic middle
ground to pull the revolutionary left and reactionary right together to
form a truly democratic, nonracial South Africa is preferable to
revolution as a cure for apartheid.

“Vice President George Bush read my book and recommended it
to James Baker,” explained Kansteiner. ‘The rest is history. Baker
asked him to become part of his team on the National Security
Council. Kansteiner also served as the Africa specialist on the secre-
tary of state’s policy planning staff and with the Department of
Defense as a member of the strategic minerals task force during the
senior Bush administration.

When President Bush lost the election in 1992, former National
Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, Kansteiner and other Bush admin-
istration colleagues pooled their talents to form ‘The Scowcroft
Group, an international business advisory group. Kansteiner advised
corporations on a wide range of mergers and acquisitions and privati-
zation projects throughout Africa.

With another Bush in office, his service was called upon again.

Eric Melby, a principal and founding member of The Scowcroft
Group, himself a specialist in the Middle East and Asia, met
Kansteiner in 1991. “Walter has totally energized the bureau because

he knows how to motivate people,” said Melby. The Bureau of

 

African Affairs has not been a popular State Department career choice
for many, because it was seen as a hopeless continent. “Walter is gen-
uinely interested in Africa, democracy and human rights and is mak
ing a difference by promoting the private sector and through his cre-
ative ideas.”

He continued, “Walter has the “Colin Powell touch.’ He talks to
his troops, listens to what they have to say and inspires them.”

Mark Belamy agrees. As principal deputy assistant secretary of
African Affairs, Belamy serves as Kansteiner’s right arm. Belamy pre-
ceded Kansteiner at the bureau and is impressed by the fresh and cre-
ative approach he has taken. “He puts a premium on African coun-
tries’ capacity to better govern themselves, set up democracies,
expand trade and increase private sector investment. One mark he
will have left [on the bureau] is a new thinking on the way U.S, busi-
nesses can benefit Africa,” said Belamy.

In April, for example, Kansteiner escorted a group of six or seven
private equity fund managers to South Africa, Ghana and Kenya.
African leaders and entrepreneurs from across
the continent were invited to pitch their busi-
ness plans to the group. Horticulture, mining,
gas and oil, pharmaceuticals and telecommuni-
cations topped the list of projects considered
by the fund managers. But beyond the part-
nership of ideas and funding, Kansteiner was
excited about the opportunity to pair African
leaders with experts who could tell them what
it really takes to make a venture successful.

“This was the first time the U.S. government
had done this, and it was a very successful
mission,” Belamy noted. “Another brainchild of Walter’s was a
recent gathering of African finance ministers here at the State
Department to demonstrate to them the importance of attaining
sovereign credit ratings. Without it, a country’s ability to encourage
investment ts limited.”

While helping Africa help itself is important to Kansteiner,
Belamy is quick to point out that Kansteiner’s key priorities are not
focused on economic issues alone. He feels the bureau has made sig-
nificant progress in troubled areas like Sudan. In that country, the
bureau has negotiated two cease fires and is making serious progress
on bringing the two warring factions together in talks to address slav-
ery and other issues. In the conflict, thousands of black Christian
southern Sudanese have been enslaved by militiamen from the main-
ly Arab Muslim north.

“What I appreciate most about Walter is that he has an
inherently optimistic and positive personality,” said Belamy. “It's easy
to be cynical about the issues we face, but he radiates a positiveness
that flows throughout the organization.”

Franny Kansteiner thinks her husband has benefited greatly from
his relationships with both Colin Powell and Brent Scowcroft. “He's
really learned a lot from both of them,” she said. “They embody the
ability to be good at what they do without being egotistical or Con

sumed by their work.”

 

W:.a.s hin gto n and fick BA

Mo AG A “Ze il

 

 

She thinks her husband’s personality is another reason he is able

handle his job so well. Borrowing a description from the book

to ha a

Memoirs of @ Gvisha, Franny Kansteiner says her husband is like water.
emo

Wheneve! there’s an obstacle, he always finds a way through. Even
when there is danger.
The most frig htening experience in his career occurred when he
5 charged with the task of negotiating a cease-fire between war-
wa

lords in Mogadishu, Somalia. Recognizing that his efforts were going

where and that his party was in danger, Kansteiner and his col-

no

leagues jumped into their car, narrowly escaping a shower of stones
e5

and bullets.
It is this kind of scattered violence that peppers Kansteiner’s opti-

mism with realism.

 

Kansteiner engaged the Washington and Lee class, telling them that
their generation would be key. “In the next 10 to 20 years you’re
going to see the old guys go and new African leadership emerge,” said
Kansteiner. “The U.S. doesn’t want the elite system of centrally
planned economies, we want true pluralistic democratic systems and
market-based economics in Africa. When I go and talk to deputy
finance ministers who are all in their 40s they know where they want
to go, and it’s in a good direction.”

The road to success will be a long one. Right below Africa’s
connection to terrorism, his radar screen is dotted with problems
such as African wars and unrest, combating the spread of
HIV/AIDS and conserving the environment with its unique
ecosystem. Behind oil and gas, tourism is Africa’s largest industry,
and if the environment isn’t protected, tourism will fail, too.
The bureau is assisting Africa in the development of several
transfrontier peace parks in neighboring countries like
Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe. The migration
patterns of elephants and other wildlife know no borders, but the
reality of managing that flow is difficult without coordination and
planning. ‘The parks are designed to change political boundaries
to make way for natural ecological borders by coordinating reserve
policies, training rangers and taking down fences that inhibit
the movement of the animals. The bureau’s role entails some
financial support, as well as assistance in negotiations between
these countries and in conducting debt-equity swaps to conser-
vation £roups to protect these areas.

From such efforts, perhaps even political, religious, racial
boundaries will break down, he suggests as he closes his lecture.
| Student hands flew into the air, eager to ask questions. “Assistant
Secretary Kansteiner responded to student questions in a frank and
forthright fashion that impressed everyone in the audience. Some of
US expected the car efully crafted language of official state department

brief}
ings. Instead. we e got honest conversation about some of the most

Controversjal - ‘
Oversial aspects of counter-terrorism policy,” said Professor

Stron
8. “It was a rare chance for Washington and Lee undergraduates

to tal
K face-to-face with a senior government official. They made
the most of it.’

1 Sle RAL Of’ &

Bordered on the north and northeast by Guinea-Conakcy, on the

south and southeast by Liberia, and on the west by the Atlantic

Ocean, Sierra Leone secured its independence from Britain in
1961. After years of prosperity and peace, the country suffered
political, economic and socio-cultural degradation between 1977
and 1992 under a one-party regime. Civil war broke out on March
21, 1991. Under the Revolutionary United Front led by Foday
Sankoh, and patronized by Libya through Charles ‘Taylor of

Liberia, armed bandits roamed the hapless country perpetrating |

some of the most heinous acts of terror known i in modern history.
Indiscriminately, they maimed and massacred tens of thousands of :
civilians. Children

were drugged and o

forced to kill and
rape their neigh-
bors. Hundreds
_ of thousands more
were displaced and

forced to wander

in search of refuge

and sustenance in

and out of Sierra
‘Leone. Military rule
from 1992 to 1996
: only exacerbated :

the quagmire.

The. future of

: ‘Sierra Leone is

bleak without the —

~ moral and material
support of the

international

community. Rich —
in diamonds and

O the r natura i

PROFESSOR KAMARA IS A NATIVE OF
SIERRA LEONE, AFRICA. HE SHARED
INSIGHTS ON HIS COUNTRY IN THE
QUESTION-AND-ANSWER PERIOD
FOLLOWING KANSTEINER’S LECTURE.

resources, but poor
in credible political and economic structures, this small country

is clearly a haven for terrorist eroups looking for resources to

finance their activities. Hibollah’s role in the ‘blood diamond’

trade is now a fait accompli. Sierra Leone’s current prospects for

peace can only be secured and guaranteed if countries like the

United States and Great Britain step up their vigilance and

_ assistance. As it tries to solve the terror puzzle, the U.S. must

consider Sierra Leone a crucial piece. %

—Mohamed Kamara, assistant professor of Romance languages

 

 

INAS S Ave GA ts doe Nee

 

 

 

 

 

     
  

Among the objects on the

 

moving van when Thomas
and Pamela Burish pull
up in front of Lee House in
early August will be several
contemporary wood sculp-
tures. One is by a Nashville
artist, Bruce Peoples; another is
an African Shona sculpture and
athird is by a Native American
artist. No doubt these will find
places with the Mount Vernon oil
lamps, the 1752 Benjamin Chandlee
tall case clock from Stratford Hall
and the 1878 landscape paint-
ing by J.F. Cropsey.
It’s a blend of old and new that could AIL
serve as a metaphor for what awaits 45
Washington and Lee prepares to inaugurate

its 24th president on Sept. 4.

 

 

 

The 51-year-ol
jmous selection of
shortly after the :
Boetsch 69, dean of t
served W&L as acting
will resume his former p

d former Vanderbilt University provost was the unan-
che Board of Trustees, who began a national search
jeath of President John W. Elrod last July. Larry
he college and vice president of academic affairs,
president throughout the 2001-02 school year and
osition this fall.

Burish has spent che months since his announcement traveling
u ia

between Nashville
meetings with W
campus. He 1s
lenges facing Was

and Lexington, keeping a rigorous schedule of
&I. students, faculty, staff and alumni on—and off—
a student again, as he familiarizes himself with the chal-

hington and Lee.

Indeed, these are challenging times for college presidents.
Competition for endowment dollars, students and acu is keen. Aging
physical plants force building programs, and curricula need updating.
Presidents are CEOs who oversee significant budgets, worry about fund

raising,

fret over student life issues and juggle a constituency of faculty,

parents donors, alumni, students and community leaders who don’t

CT BURISH

   
   
   
 

3 PRESIDENT-ELE
WwiTtH HIS WIFE OF 26 YEARS,
PAMELA. THE COUPLE HAS
two SONS, MARK, WHO IS
ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL
AT VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY,
AND BRENT, A JUNIOR AT
_ NOTRE DAME. “THE WASH-
_ INGTON AND LEE COMMUNITY
HAS EMBRACED US WITH OPEN
_ ARMS,” SAID PAMELA BURISH.
“THE FACULTY, STAFF, AND
ALUMNI WITH WHOM WE

HAVE MET CONTINUE TO
REINFORCE OUR DECISION
TO BECOME A PART OF THIS
VERY SPECIAL UNIVERSITY.”

always see eye-to-eye.

Yet few Washington and Lee presidents
have had easy times as they guided this
University through a Revolution, a Civil
War, Reconstruction, Prohibition, two world
wars, a Depression, the 1954 cheating
scandal, integration, Vietnam and co-educa-
tion. Financial worries have been consistent
themes. President Burish takes his seat in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11 tragedy and all
of its implications. He must heal a campus
still grieving over President Elrod’s death
and lead W&L to the finish line of an
ambitious fund-raising campaign, while
dealing with enrollment, diversity, academic

CG H «4

0

. so

ore

qd]

M

[=

; o

“J

calendar and student life issues.

Interviews with former colleagues reveal he has the energy, sta-
mina and vision for the job. “He works phenomenally hard,” says
former Vanderbilt Chancellor Joe Wyatt, who, with Father Edward
A. Malloy C.S.C., president of Notre Dame University, encouraged
Burish to seek a college presidency. “He’s got an engaging person-
ality and superior analytical skills. He leads people to reach beyond
their grasp,” says Wyatt. Adds Malloy, “Tom was responsible for a
very complex institution. He was very well-prepared. I think you’re
very lucky.” Burish considers both men as mentors.

Prior to his provost’s position, Burish participated in cutting-edge
research on cancer therapy, suggesting biofeedback and support
SfOUPs as Ways to help patients manage disease. He authored books
and countless articles on the subject and continues to serve on the
board of the American Cancer Society. Hospitals just now are starting
to integrate the theories into the clinical setting, says Sue Snyder
Ph.D. former associate director of the sleep disorder center at
Vanderbilt-affiliated St. Thomas Hospital, who studied under Burish.

He was Way ahead of his time.” Burish taught her the “rigors of
scientific thinking, how to approach a problem step-by-step.
He wouldn’t let the details slide, nor would he allow me to.”
Ba # a of psychology at the Center for Health and
Bs c use peal ge another nos madera says he
5 y Burish’s research interests, charisma, enthusiasm, pas-
$10n for his wor

i. «and science in general. “What I learned from his rela-
lonships with stude

Career,” ae : ;
he said. “He is very well-organized and efficient. He always

nts is a model I have followed throughout my —

knows what’s important.” Yet, notes Carey, “He’s always quick to
laugh, to enjoy whatever is in front of him. He’s fully present.”

As provost, Burish oversaw eight deans, including the schools of
law, business, divinity, engineering and arts and science. Admissions
and student life fell to his watch.

He took the heat when Vanderbilt decided not to serve alcoholic
beverages at any event where underage students were present.
When a student recreation building threatened to encroach on a
neighborhood, Burish helped draft a plan whereby neighbors could
use the facility.

When it came time to look at ways to bring more diverse students
and faculty to Vanderbilt, Shozo Kawagucki, director of intercultural
affairs and diversity education, remembers Burish encouraged “good
communication among ourselves.” And when it came to ugly inci-
dents, Burish was even-handed. “No matter whether it involved one
student or 350, it was equally important to him.”

Burish participated in fund raising and oversaw a complex bud-
getary process, which brought even the school of divinity out of the red.

“He’s a hands-on manager. He likes to see things done right,”
says Thomas R. Harris, chair of biomedical engineering. He recalls
that Burish was instrumental in positioning Vanderbilt as lead insti-
tution for a National Science Foundation grant with MIT, Harvard,
Northwestern and University of Texas, Austin. Burish also helped
initiate the Chancellor’s Venture Fund, which provides funding to
groups of faculty who have ideas to move Vanderbilt forward in inter-
disciplinary studies, Harris recalled.

William Shain, dean of undergraduate admissions, appreciated
Burish’s understanding and support of the admissions process “He lets
you run your office, but he tries very hard to be there for you,” he says.

 

 

Below, President Burish outlines some ideas as he begins his first
100 days.

Q What was your path to the presidency? Has it been a lifelong goal?

A. It was not a lifelong goal; the path was one of serendipity, oppor-
tunity and good fortune. I began to get involved with administration
out of a sense of doing my part, as all faculty do their part, to share the
administrative workload of the university. I started in my department,
psychology. I became director of the clinical program. Then I became
chairman of the department, which was a surprise to many of us.
Whenever there was an opening for a department chair, the dean of
the college interviewed all the members of the department about
who they thought might be a good chair. When he met with me, he
said, “There are a number of people who think that someday you
would make a good department chair, but it’s too early in your career.”
And I said, “If the day comes when I could make a contribution, I’d
be happy to consider it. But you’re right. It’s too early.” He called me
back a few weeks later and asked me to be the chair. I was surprised
and assumed I was a default candidate.

When I was asked a few years later to be associate provost, I
initially said no. I loved my faculty position and had many more goals
as department chair. ‘he provost was very persuasive, and eventually
I agreed to do it, and I was glad I did. I liked working with him very
much, and I enjoyed the position more than I had anticipated. I have
been in full-time administration ever since.

 

Wearech 4 a gate # and

as

ae | See

Mil SAe Geo AP eZ 1 Ne E

 

 

 

Gee as its chancellor in February 2000. You announced your intention
to step down in September 2001 after 10 years as provost. Is this
when you decided you wanted to be a university president?

A. My intention was to go back to the faculty. I missed teaching
and had some research ideas I wanted to follow up on. I did intend,
however, to look at other positions, including college presidencies,
if opportunities arose at the right kinds of institutions. As it turns out,
several attractive ones did present themselves. Washington and Lee
soon became the most attractive position of all. I knew of its strong
academic reputation but had not realized how many other distinctive,
warm, exceptional qualities it has. ‘There is no place like it. Il am
most fortunate to be able to join this wonderful institution.

 
   
 
 

Pe

. How would you define the traits of a successful president?

A. ‘There are many successful presidents and many constellations of
traits among them. ‘There is no one formula. But I suspect there are
some traits that are commonplace. One is to set high personal and insti-
tutional standards for integrity. Establishing an atmosphere of trust—or
in the case of Washington and Lee, maintaining it—is critical. Another
is to be a good leader—to have the ability to articulate a plan, a vision, a
mission, and then be able to excite others to join with you to accomplish
it. It is helpful for a leader to be able to make wise decisions and have
the courage to execute them, even if unpopular. A good leader usually
is a good listener, understands intimately the institution he/she leads,
recognizes the importance of building a team and allowing members of

 

 

the team autonomy and providing them with the support they need to
do their jobs well. A good leader is a good people picker, as they say in
Nashville, building a highly effective and competent team.

A good leader cannot ignore management and execution, though he
or she may not have the time to be involved in most aspects of daily
management. There are a number of universities that create wonderful
strategic plans, have exciting visions for the future, but do not move
forward because they do not successfully execute their strategies.

 

. What is your approach to management?

A. I am not sure I have one in the textbook sense. On the one hand, I
do not believe in consensus management—that each decision is based
on a vote or on first requiring a consensus among all parties. That
approach leads ineluctably to compromise, risk aversion, promotion of
self-interests and sometimes paralysis of action. On the other hand, I
believe strongly that whenever possible—and it is almost always possi-
ble—substantive decisions should be made only after broad and open
discussion, in a context that allows disagreement and criticism, that
invites analysis and careful scrutiny. Too little discussion inhibits ideas,
creates apathy or anger and results in a lack of broad participation in and
support of the ultimate action. I hope that if broad and open discussion

occurs, people will support the outcome, because they support the
e action,

ity

process and were part of it, and understand the reasons for th
even if the action is not their first choice. This requires matur
and trust, which are hallmarks of Washington and Lee and why the
interactions here among the faculty, staff and administration, from what
Iam told and what I have observed, are so positive.

 

 

 

 

 

0 Since your selection, you have made several trips to campus to visit
a. dents, administrators and alumni/ae—fact-finding
Now, as this magazine rolls off the press, you just
duties as president. What are your priorities?

with faculty, stu

missions, if you will.

will have begun your

A. My first priority is to work with the trustees, faculty, staff, students
administration, alumni/ae and others to determine the priorities!
The determination of priorities is not the province . any one person
or office, ‘ncluding the president. Rather, each constituency that has a
ment to and a stake in the outcome should have the oppor-

commit Sie] — ec
ave input into the determination of priorities. ‘his is what

tunity to h

Retails: :
strategic planning 1s all abou

() Do you think priorities will be different from those already
‘dentified in a set of strategic initiatives outlined-by the John W. Elrod
administration?

A. [ think there will be a continual evolution of Washington and Lee,
building upon and taking advantage of its rich past. For example, one of
the key questions important to strategic planning Is: “What is distinctive
about Washington and Lee?” What features set it apart from other
schools? What features should we develop in the future? What should
the priorities be for investments in people, programs and facilities?
These are the first questions. Questions of the academic calendar, spring
term, general education, teaching loads, and so forth should, at least in
part, follow from the answers to these broader strategic questions.

g When will you begin to set your agenda?

A. I can’t give a precise date, but it will move forward as quickly

as is prudent.

C) Some say fund raising is the biggest challenge facing private
ww : *
institutions. How important is it for Washington and Leer

A. Fund raising is important—indeed, critical—at Washington and
Lee, as it is at virtually every institution of higher education, especially
private institutions. ‘lhe strategic plans, opportunities and challenges
facing Washington and Lee will require significantly more resources
than are now available. There is a critical need for more endowment
dollars—many more dollars—for student financial aid. From what I
know, Washington and Lee is the only, or one of the only, institutions in
its peer group that is not need-blind, that is, that does not have the
resources to accept the best students regardless of family financial status
and to assure all accepted students that their financial needs will be met.
his limitation, unless addressed soon, will affect the future nature and
success of Washington and Lee.

A significant proportion of our faculty will retire within the next
decade, as is true of many other institutions. As a result, there is stiff
Competition nationally for talented faculty. To make matters more chal-
lenging, Washington and Lee seeks—and I hope will always seek—a
Special type of faculty member, one who is committed primarily to his or
her students. Research and scholarship are important and must be
oo but within a liberal arts education that focuses on students.
e — and retain such special faculty members within this highly
rompetitive environment will require significant additional resources.
_.” + oe need funds to develop new and exciting pro-

S Interdisciplinary programs that take advantage of faculty

from different schools and departments who together can do something
that no single discipline or department can do. Other universities and
liberal arts colleges are making significant progress in this area, and I
hope that in a selective and careful way, Washington and Lee will as
well. We already have some strong interdisciplinary programs; we need
additional support for them and for others.

Surprisingly, in spite of the many new and wonderful building pro-
jects that have been or soon will be undertaken, there are also more cap-
ital needs for construction and renovation. ‘There are a number of
deferred maintenance issues in some of the older buildings. Many class-
rooms still do not support technology-driven pedagogical tools.

In short, we have aspirations to continue to offer one of the best lib-
eral arts and law educations, in the country. ‘Phat requires that in what-
ever areas we decide to support, we will aim for the best, that students
can be assured they will leave here as well-positioned for their next
phase of life as students from anywhere else. ‘Io continue to achieve this
goal, we must attract significantly more philanthropy.

QO Sometimes people say that Washington and Lee already has
adequate resources. What do
you think?

A. I have heard colleagues
at other institutions ask how
universities Can appear so rich
and feel so poor. ‘The answer
becomes strikingly clear at
the very best institutions, like
Washington and Lee, when you
look carefully at the cost of con-
tinuing to maintain the highest
levels of excellence. When one
compares Washington and Lee
to its peer institutions, it is clear
that we are actually one of the
poorer institutions in terms
of endowment per student.
Raising additional endowment
dollars—which provide a
perpetual source of income for
continuing programs—is a Key,
and as yet not fully realized,

 

goal of the current campaign.

Of course, spending better the dollars we already have is also impor-
tant. We are engaged in a process of evaluating possible areas of cost
reduction and reallocation, a request prudently made by the Board last
year. The goal is not primarily to cut costs—the budget is projected to
erow each year—but to continually ensure that dollars are spent on the
highest priorities, which change from time to time.

QO People at Vanderbilt credit you with having a significant impact
in achieving more diversity for the college. Is diversity one of your
priorities for W&L?

A. When I think of diversity, I think of it very broadly. On the
curricular level it refers in part to the breadth of disciplinary and inter-
disciplinary courses offered. In terms of students, it refers to individuals
with different talents, from different states or nations or geographic

 

Washington and fren QE Sia ne Mia @ 4:2 EN ft

regions, of different religions, socioeconomic backgrounds, races,
ethnicities, leadership skills and so forth. Should it be a priority?
Yes, absolutely.

Why? There are several reasons. One is that institutions of higher
education have an obligation to serve society—all society, not just a
particular group or people of a particular background. ‘That is why un1i-
versities enjoy a tax-exempt status, why they receive state or federal
aid for their students and research programs and why society supports
them in a number of other special ways. In short, it is our civic respon-
sibility to educate the people of this country—and to open our doors
to and be supportive of all qualified students.

Another reason is because we want the special skills we teach and
values we help instill to influence all parts of society all over the
nation and the world.

A third reason is perhaps the most important; we want to ensure that
all of our students receive a liberal arts education. ‘Vhat requires an
understanding of and respect for an ability to lead, work with and appre-
clate people of different religious faiths, socioeconomic backgrounds,
nationalities, sexual orientations, races, cultures, political orientations
and so forth. ‘This is what Washington and Lee 1s all about.

—. . PRESIDENT-ELECT BURISH
_ - WITH ACTING PRESIDENT LARRY BOETSCH
(ON THE DAY OF THE ANNOUNCEMENT, MARCH 27.
-BURISH’S WORK ETHIC IS LEGEND, AND HE ADMITS
ss HE HAS LITTLE TIME FOR MOVIES OR

PLEASURABLE READING.

TO RELAX, HE RUNS, TAKES WALKS
AND ENJOYS PLAYS, MUSICAL CONCERTS

- AND COLLEGE ATHLETIC EVENTS.

 

  

Q What should W&L do to increase diversity in its faculty and
student body?

A. I have several suggestions, but let me emphasize that I do not have
all the answers. I know that many smart and committed people at
Washington and Lee have devoted a lot of time to identifying Ways
to increase diversity, and I look forward to learning from them and
partnering with them.

At the student level, financial aid 1s critical to attracting students, and
special support programs and student activities are critical to retaining
students. I do not know enough about the student culture to speak
knowledgeably about what is needed to make students of all back-
erounds feel comfortable at W&L and to be able to reach their aspira-
tions and goals. But I hope to learn about this quickly.

At the faculty level, special incentives and programs for attracting
minority faculty are often helpful. For example, one might think of
establishing a visiting minority faculty program in which special funds
are made available to help attract visitors who are minorities and who
might eventually be recruited to a permanent position or who, at least
for the time they are with us, help to enrich the curriculum in important
and significant ways. One might allow departments to “mortgage” posi-
tions so that if a strong minority candidate 1s available, the department
has the opportunity to hire that person even if there is nota faculty open-
ing in the department at that particular time.

Many, though not all, approaches to increasing diversity require
additional funds. ‘That’s why it is so important for the president to spend
time raising money and developing a compelling case for the importance
of diversity to the core mission and values of the University.

  

Incidents in recent years have created a less-than-comfortable
atmosphere for some of our students of color and those with religious dif

ferences. How might you handle those situations?

A. I feel strongly that when those incidents occur—incidents 1n which
people are ridiculed or demeaned for their beliefs or race or socioeco-
nomic status—you confront them head-on. You make it clear that this
type of behavior is not tolerated. It’s not part of an open, accepting, civil
community. One can disagree with others and question the behavior of
others, but this should be done in civil way that allows meaningful dis-
cussion and is not demeaning. If we fail to teach this and require it, we
have not provided the liberal arts education that is our goal.

Your Vanderbilt colleagues credit you with having a positive impact
on the Greek system. What did you learn about Greek life at Vanderbilt
that might help you at Washington and Lee?

A. While there are some similarities in student life issues,
including Greek issues, from campus to campus, there are also
important differences. I come to Washington and Lee with no
preconception that I understand the Greek issues or other stu-
dent life issues here. But I do know they are important, that
other people have devoted a lot of time and talent to them and
that I have much to learn about them.

Greek organizations provide many strengths. Greek students
often are found in disproportionate numbers in student leadership
positions; they often have higher retention rates; they are often
among the most connected and loyal alumni. ‘These strengths are

 

 

We@esch Aa w g.t@ * and

 

 

sould be reinforced. Unfortunately, national data
,0l abuse is greater among Greek than non-Greek

and sl
important in

Icol

suggest that 2 o
- o is still a problem in some fraternities, grade point

students, hazin
averages often fa
d the Greek system. I do not know if these are issues

(| during rush and there are other potential problems

associated with

at W&L. If they .
shrase “disciplined freedom” in referring to his expec-

are, we must address them. I believe President Lee

once used the |

ration of student
jent organizations, such as the Greek system, as well.
C

But the most important concern, in my estimation, 1s probably not
the Greek system, which is well established at W&L, but the non-
Greek system. We want all students who attend or wish to attend W&L

J \ a

to feel equally invited,
and for socializing, and of finding activities that to them may be

eovernance; It is a good phrase, and it applies to stu-

equally capable of finding opportunities for lead-

ership
as important |
probably best directed at helping students who decide not to be Greek

as being part of the Greek system 1s to others. Our focus is

to be as happy, successful and satisfied at W&L as are students who are
Greek. If we can accomplish that, we can have the best of both worlds.

CQ) Earlier you mentioned interdisciplinary studies. Washington and
Lee has been expanding opportunities in this area, for example, in envi-
ronmental studies, poverty studies, women’s studies and business jour-

nalism. What are you views?

A. I’m a very strong supporter of interdisciplinary studies. Knowledge
is not unitary. Problems are not, for the most part, disciplinary. Someone
ence said, “The world has problems, universities have disciplines.”
What we need to do in many areas is teach people to take information
and problem-solving techniques from many different disciplines and
combine them to create more powerful and balanced approaches to
societal issues, problems and opportunities.

Part of Washington and Lee’s distinctness 1s having a liberal arts core
of the highest quality with pre-professional programs like journalism,
commerce and law. Enabling these programs to work together in a

constructive fashion to make sure that the whole is greater than the sum
of its parts is an opportunity. ‘Team teaching is one way to combine
different resources. ‘There might be opportunities for synergies with
other institutions. ‘here are many mechanisms by which the schools
might work together. I think we’re starting down that path, but there
is probably a lot more that could be done.

Q What role should athletics play at the college level?

A. Athletics are an omnipresent, and important, component of the
extracurricular program at W&L, and should be. Athletics have the
potential to teach leadership skills, to help students develop self-disci-
pline, a commitment to fitness and to bring the alumni and the greater
university community together in ways that few extracurricular activities
can. An athletics program ought to fit into the broader context of a uni-
versity in which academic and intellectual goals are the primary, though
not the only, concern. Care must be taken to ensure that the athletics
program adopts the highest standards of integrity, plays by the rules and
adheres to the standards to which all student programs are held. Student
athletes must truly be students, should achieve academically to their
potential and should graduate at the same rate as other students. Based
on everything I have seen, this is the case at W&L.

Q Do you miss research and teaching?

A. I do. I think that the highest calling at any university is being a
faculty member, to teach and to generate new knowledge.

Q You will hold a faculty position in the psychology department here.
Are you going to try to teach?

A. If me allows, I would love to teach. It may be that I would team
teach, if possible, so that if I need to travel, I won’t miss class or |
won't miss preparing adequately for class. 4

 

When Provost ‘Tom Burish announced

new chancellor, Gordon Gee, shouid

plans in 1997 to conduct a Greek life study,
the Vanderbilt community held its breath:
Was this a move toward abolishing the
Greek system, as some faculty members
had been advocating, and as had happened
at other top universities?
| No, assured Burish. Vanderbilt had stud-
ted the Greek system in the 1950s and the
1970s, and it was just time to review it again.
Burish assembled an ad hoc committee of
Bemni, faculty and administrators and
charged them with examining the pledge
Process, Greek life’s affect on academics and
grades, Selectivity and exclusivity of the SYS-
tem and alcoho! issues, among other aspects.
“Tom realizes he doesn’t have all the
Mets to a question and assembles
Soups of people whom he trusts and
=™pPowers them to work on the problem

but doesn’t micromanage them,” says
Larry Dowdy, Vanderbilt’s dean of stu-
dents, professor of computer science and
chair of the Greek Life study.

‘The study took 14 months. ‘The com-
mittee interviewed sorority and fraternity
members, students who had fallen through
the Greek system, parents of Greek students
and other groups. ‘The committee also
gleaned information from other colleges.

‘Thirteen recommendations evolved.
Among them: encouraging Greek organiza-
tions to increase diversity; implementing
sophomore rush; continuing to evaluate the
university’s alcohol policy for effectiveness
and initiating and promoting more campus
activities not labeled as Greek events.

Burish accepted all of the recommen-
dations except one: that of switching to
sophomore rush. He felt that Vanderbilt’s

make that decision. Gee ultimately decid-
ed to keep Vanderbilt’s system of deferred |
freshman rush during spring semester.
“An unexpected side benefit of the study
was that the students themselves formed the

Student Life Improvement Committee, in
response to the Greek Life study,” Dowdy
says. “They stepped up to the plate and
proposed their own solutions. ‘The entire
process worked out very well—people felt
they had many opportunities to be heard.

“Tom’s style of doing periodic assessment
of all units of the university is invaluable,” he
adds. “Those in a unit usually already know
what problems there are and often can come
up with their own solutions if they are given
encouragement and know they have to hold
themselves accountable.” =
—Beth Matter

 

Washing ica and

CC

Dee Be Ae et

M A GAaZzitiéi nN i.-

 

 

 

Mixing StUp

Different Points of View
Enhance the Educational! Experience

BY Deborah Marquardt

      

 

WATE LAST FALL sever African-American women students showed up for a party at the Chi Pst
house. ‘They were asked to show their W&L ID cards, which they did. Still, they were asked to leave. Quincy
Springs ’02, former Interfraternity Council president, also African-American, intervened, and they were allow ed
to stay. “Half the people at the party weren't from the school,” he said. “Let’s admit there is a problem.”
Springs spoke at a well-attended forum hosted by PR.I.D.E. (Programming for the Respect of Individuals

and Diversity in Education) in March, prompted by the fraternity incident and a series of controversial

articles on diversity published by the 7,

 

[TCO Ga Uw a

u

A

_m NG

ee a ee

—

Meanwhile, in Pro :
se, a winter-term section called “African-American Voices,” and ina
course,

rse called “Stereotyping and Discrimination,’ taught by Julie Wood-
. assistant professor of psychology, something else was happening.
_ taught a novel by Caribbean author Opal Palmer Adisa, /+
Begins With Tears, which paints a picture of Jamaican life shaped by old
legends and folklore. Of 14 class members, four were African-American
with close relatives from Africa or the Caribbean; one was from Ghana

fessor Suzanne Keen’s literature and composition

DiverfiPy

rt ne een eI at ee ee

we have no agenda beyond continued excellence.”

He wrote, “Efforts to diversify Washington and Lee have never
responded to ‘political correctness,’ . . .or to pressure applied from any
self-interested group. That was true when Robert E. Lee actively
sought to recruit students from the North, when we integrated in the
60s and when we coeducated in the 80s and when we sought to attract
more international students in the 90s.

“Ina place like ours, ‘education’ means so much more than the acqui-

and another from Bulgaria; nine were women.
In the story, bad weather in the village 1s
attributed to the Devil and the She-Devil
having a fight. A discussion ensued during
which the five black students told how the
story was told in their cultures. Then, one
white woman from Connecticut, whose
mother is from Georgia, said, “Oh, yeah.
My mom told a story something like this.”
Keen said, “For the first time in my
career, I witnessed what a difference it
could make having a ‘critical mass’ of diverse
students in the classroom. ‘The students dis-
covered that there is diversity within diver-
sit, and that they had something in com-
mon,” she said. “The quality of the class-
room experience changes with diversity.”
Similarly, Woodzicka described stu-
dents who arrived in her class wishing the
diversity issue would go away. In addition to
coursework and reading, she let students—
black and white—tell their stories and vent.
“White students came up to me after class
and said, ‘I had no idea,’ ” said Woodzicka.
Admittedly, students in these classes
were a self-selecting group. Stull, the ah-ha

  
   

 

The University’s strategic plan
calls for “strengthening the acade-
mic community through diversity.”

Money ratsed for scholarships,

endowed professorships, interna-
tional education and student-life
facilities and programs through
“A Campaign for the Rising
Generation” will assure success.

To support this initiative visit

our Web site, support.wlu.edu.

sition of knowledge. . . .It means the free
exchange of ideas, it means learning from
experience, it means understanding that per-
sonal integrity and honor are moral corner-
stones by which to live, it means that tradition
helps to build community. All of this is part of
what [deceased President] John Elrod used to
call the ‘conversation’ that is at the heart of

learning in a place like Washington and Lee.”

 

Change comes slowly to Washington and Lee.
The school graduated its first African-
Americans in 1972—two young Lexington
men who understood the school and the
town. The ‘Irustees never formally made a
decision to integrate, rather they simply
approved a policy on admissions that said,
“No provision of the charter, no provision of
the by-laws, no resolution of the Board has
established a policy of discrimination.” ‘he
debate to accept women boiled for decades;
they finally were admitted 1985 (the Law
School coeducated in 1972). At the time,
President John Wilson said, “We were looking
to the total future health, vitality and character

moments are worth noting. he anecdote
illustrates the gap between the classroom experience and W&Ls
social culture, which is verified by results of “exit” surveys completed
anonymously by graduating seniors and in a student satisfaction survey
submitted by sociology students of Professor Krzysztof Jasiewicz
(culture.wlu.edu/students/StudentSatisfactionSurvey.pdf). Ethnic
minorities describe their educational experience as wonderful and their
social experience as miserable. In other words, we’ve come a long way,
but there’s a long way to go.
Diversity is not just about race or ethnic origin. It’s about religion,
geography, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation and points of view.
The University’s Board of Trustees, is committed to the “recruit-
ment and retention of a broad, inclusive student body, faculty and
administration who represent a wide range of interests, abilities and
cultures” and to the continued development of a curriculum and cli-
mate that “builds on our core values to welcome and nurture all mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee community.”
Diversity was an issue in the search for a new president, according
; Harlan Beckley, professor of religion and director of the Shepherd
param for the interdisciplinary study of poverty, who headed the
So eee The selection of ‘Thomas G. Burish by
= = this commitment. (See interview with President
sh on page 22.)
ee ct 69, who served as acting president during
i... % ne the reasons for a diverse campus 1n a letter
uich he emphasized that “We have no quotas,

of the University as measured against...
changes in the larger society.” International students arrived in the 90s.
But the work is not done. Once again, work must be measured by
changes in a larger society.

“We have so much here to be proud of. Our homogeneity is our
greatness strength and weakness,” said Bill Hartog, dean of admissions.
“We graduate 90 percent of our enrollees, 2,500 parents show up for
Parents Weekends and 400 kids apply for early decision. But I think we
can retain all of this and still be more diverse, and in doing so will be of
greater appeal among majority candidates who see us as too homoge-
neous. We can get there.”

The need to “get there” became painfully obvious two years ago as
the Mock Convention parade snaked down Main Street. Students rep-
resenting the state of Idaho selected a ‘[-shirt design depicting an
African-American woman in a red dress with the word “J-Da-Ho”
printed above her head. ‘This incident followed two others that school
year: the withdrawal of a student who experienced anti-Semitic
remarks and the gay-bashing of Jeff Cook ’01, student body president,
by a WLUR radio announcer. WLUR 1s a student station.

W&L history is peppered with moments of insensitivity. ‘Uhere
were minstrel shows in the 50s, halted by Dean Frank Gilliam who
said, “Enough is enough.” Ted DeLaney 85, now a tenured history
professor, recalled working as a biology lab assistant in 1963. “I was 19,
the same age as the students. I can remember a Northern white boy—
most students were Southern—saying to me, ‘If you see me walking
around with friends and I don’t speak—well, when in Rome, do as the

 

Washington and

aa”

(2 Ee Ai wae

DA A SG See IN Oe

Diversity :
ee Te eee

Romans do.’ A couple of days later, I saw him walking with friends.
‘The Southern guys all said hello. He said nothing.”

In 1988, Fancy Dress, the premier student social event had
as its theme the “Reconciliation Ball.” The event drew the
attention of news media when the Minority Student Association
boycotted the event.

A few years ago, a fraternity lit its Christmas decorations at
Hanukkah; another fraternity hung a black Santa from its balcony.
Freshmen have been known to fly the Confederate flag in their dorm
rooms. A few years ago, students gouged the eyes out of a poster of
Rich Tafel, executive director of Log Cabin, the national gay/lesbian
Republican organization, before his speech on campus.

Yet it was the Idaho incident that served as a catalyst for change.

Phylissa Mitchell ’01L, who taught journalism courses this past
school year, remembers Idaho well. She was editor of Law News. “It was
so incredibly offensive, I put it on the front page,” she said.

Faculty were outraged. ‘Then-President Elrod admitted that the
experiences of all W&L students were not equal, and the faculty
formed a committee to study the issues. ‘Their report was forwarded to
the administration and then to the Shepherd Committee, which had
been initiated by ‘lom Shepherd °52, who served on the Board from
1996-2000. The Shepherd Committee evolved into a permanent Board
group, the Committee for an Inclusive Community. A faculty commit-
tee continues to work and make recommendations to the Board.

“What we learned from Idaho was that our University mechanism
to handle such interpersonal grievances was inadequate,” said
Courtney Penn 792, associate dean of students, who remembers clear-
ly his own struggles as a minority student on a predominantly white
campus. “I think President Elrod will go down in history as the presi-
dent who stopped the inertia and made a commitment to increase the
comfort of minority students,” he said.

“Idaho would have made no difference at all if the climate hadn’t
been ripe,” said Professor Beckley. “It shouldn’t be blown out of pro-

portion. It allowed us to bring something good out of a bad situation,”
Beckley also credits Shepherd as having had “a profound influence on
W&L by helping to lead the Board in new efforts to increase diversity
and make life more congenial for nontraditional students.”
Out of the studies, a plan has emerged and progress has been chart. |
ed. “What has changed is an open, public commitment,” said Boetsch.
Significant advancements include:

¢ Establishment of goals to “enroll students who would enhance the
pedagogical experience, inside and outside the classroom.”

* Creation of a full-time admissions position to focus on the recruit-
ment of ethnic minorities. Dolores Richardson heads the effort.

¢ Commitment of resources for financial aid and recruitment.

¢ Change in the school’s anti-discrimination statement to
include sexual orientation.

Recognition of John Chavis as the University’s first
African-American student in 1795.

¢ The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation award of $800,000 to
assist with hiring during a period of faculty transition by
allowing departments to “borrow” against retirement.

* Hiring of several new African-American faculty members.
¢ Heinz scholarship (see sidebar) for disadvantaged students.

Renewal of Hillel on campus, the creation of the Muslim
League and other diverse groups and student initiatives,
such as the Joyful Noise Gospel Chotr.

¢ Interdisciplinary program in women’s studies.
¢ Shepherd Program for the study of poverty.

¢ Increased opportunities for international study.

 

Even at a Southern and conservative school
such as Washington and Lee, things can—and
do—change. So has my international experi-
ence throughout the past three years.

When I first stepped
on campus, I accepted a
lot of things as a matter of
fact. “No, international
students don’t belong in
Greeks,” one upperclass-
man said. “Most people
won't even know what
continent your country 1s
don’t bother
explaining,” said another.

Happily, I learned
differently. Yes, you will
find traditions and rooted
mentalities, Out the
toward

on, 530

recent drive
inclusiveness presents a

great opportunity to

 

AGNES FLAK
IS FROM DORTMUND,
GERMANY.

make your ideas count. ‘The results have
been astonishing. Every year, a greater num-
ber of students, representing a wide range of

countries, enrolls, while more American stu-

dents, representing various
economic and social back-
erounds, take advantage of the
opportunity to study abroad.

‘The former International
Club, merged into the Student
Association for International
Learning (SAIL), now truly
focuses on making global
awareness a Campus experi-
ence. More international stu-
dents are actively involved in
extracurricular and _— social
scenes, including Greeks.

It was in the theater that I
truly crossed cultural barriers.
In that informal setting, I had
the opportunity to meet other

students without any preconception of their
backgrounds, their interests or their Greek
affiliations. Talent, dedication and pride in the
final piece united us. We talked about an

thing and everything: Europe, dreams, the
daily challenges of being a “fraternity boy,”
and about how international students might
not be as strange and different as presumed.
We amused ourselves by our little mishaps
during the production and laughed about my
inability to pronounce the ‘th” while calling
“Deck Cue Three.” In those six weeks I, 000,
was forced to step out of my own little box and
in doing so made some great friends.

I could go on forever. W&L 1s going
through a very exciting period. | am not saying
that there is no prejudice or that there is no
ignorance. But I am saying I have experien
a very reaffirming change. And as one of the
few international students present three years
ago, it has been rewarding to have played an
active role in provoking it.

 

Washington and

 

be BO Ok a

MA G A 4 isn Ef

 

— aaa

hallenges remain in recruitment of students, faculty and in changing
Challe .

the University culture.

 

Underg

a

aah Student Recruitment

 

This is an outstanding university with one exception—the homogeneity
E : : . e4e e

f the student body. We must protect our viability in the student mar-
’ F ; * a

hasized Dean Hartog. And it 1s a competitive market-

ketplace,” emp ngs
anged dramatically in his 23 years. “he first issue was

place that has ch
recruiting West of t

jHola!

he Mississippi. Then it was the admission of women.
‘Then it was the recruitment of international

students,” he said.
Recruiting students of color to a

Diverfity

avery different place,” she recalls. “I remember going to Evans Dining
Hall. ‘There were no salads. ‘They were serving fried bologna for break-
fast. It was food for guys who were burning serious calories.”

Palmer returned to campus in 1986 as assistant dean of Law School
admissions. With the appointment of Dean Randall P. Bezanson in
1988, things began to change. He outlined his goals for “putting the law
school on the map.” One of those was diversity. “Geographical, racial
and economic diversity within the framework of a selective, very high-
quality law school with very talented students is essential,” he told the
WL Alumni Magazine.

Bezanson devoted substantial merit scholarship funds to attracting
a diverse student body. At the time, the Law School had just $500,000
to offer. Yet the strategy worked. “In 1991 and 1993, 19.2 percent of our
students (24) were students of color,” Palmer recalls. By the time

W&L will take its first
stab at language housing
this fall, when students
of Spanish take up resi-
dence in the former
International House on
Lee Avenue. In this
setting, students will
emerse themselves in
Spanish culture, with
Spanish as the official
language. They will
host theme dinners
and cultural events.
Meanwhile, the former
Delt House will become
the new International
House, which will offer
expanded programming
and a headquarters for
SAIL. The Office of
International Education
becomes the Center for
International Education
in new quarters in the
Letcher House at 21
University Place.

University that carries the name of a
Confederate general holds another set of chal-
lenges. ‘he office of admissions has been
active with programs such as_ Project
Excellence in Washington, the Ida McKinley
Foundation, Chicago’s Daniel Murphy
Foundation and the INROADS program in
West Virginia, in an attempt to identify and
attract racial and ethnic minorities.

kor the fall of 2002, offers went out to 990
students, including 119 students of color—
many of these in the same pool sought by
other schools. Of those, Hartog said, 465
accepted, including 40 students of color.

Added Hartog, “The key to effective
recruiting 1s never changing the message.
What makes this place so special is the depth
and breadth of the curriculum, the Honor
System, the national and the international
scope of the student body. We want students
who find this message attractive.” Yet, the key
is to make the campus more comfortable to all
and to diminish the one-dimensional nature of
the Greek system. “We are going to have
growing pains,” he said.

Currently W&L has 4.6 American eth-
nic and racial minorities, compared to 9.8 per-
cent at other rural liberal arts colleges. ‘To

achieve improvement, Hartog envisions two five-year efforts, the first
aimed at American racial and ethnic minorities and a second aimed
at underprivileged majority students. “We hope to achieve a great
socioeconomic diversity as well,” he said.

Hartog estimates it will take an additional $1 million of financial aid
($20 million in endowment) to accomplish the goals of the first five
years. The second phase is even more expensive, because not every-
One in the first phase is “needy.” “It will take a commitment above and

bey en: illion 1 | I
Cyond the campaign goal of $60 million in scholarships to make this
effort a reality,” Hartog said.

 

| me

School of | :
Se hool of Law Student Recruitment

 

The School of Law has led Washington and Lee in most matters of

diversity. It admitted women in 1972. Leslie Smith *69L was the first

African-American eraduate.

— poet SOL, associate dean of student affairs and admis-

= alae vantage. She graduated from Law School the
Cergraduate women were admitted to the College. “It was

Bezanson left in 1994, the student
marketplace was different. In fact,
the bottom fell out of the law
school applicant pool nationally.
Competition for students, particu-
larly minority students, was stiff.
Schools
resources held a keen advantage.
In 1997, W&L’s minority enroll-
ment dropped to 6.3 percent.
‘loday, the Law School has

more than $2 million for scholar-

with more financial

ships, but it stull is not enough to
attract all the students W&L
might like to have. Yet numbers
are improving, Last fall, the Law
School enrolled a study body that
included 20 nonwhite students,
including 13 African-Americans,
or 16.4 percent. ‘The first-year
included 46.7 percent
women. While this represents a

class

significant increase, W&L still
lags behind the national applicant
pool, which is 26 percent diverse
and 50 percent women. “We’d
like to see our school reflect the
national applicant pool,” said
Palmer.

“One of our most important
recruitment goals is to have a
diverse class enrolling,” she
added. “Diversity in the Law
School classroom is about educa-
tion. It’s about having dialogue
that includes perspectives—the
conservative Republican, the rad-
ical Marxist, the single mom, the
Latino. The legal profession must
reflect the society it needs to
serve.”

‘The School of Law recently
added a program that should fur-
ther increase diversity—a gradu-
ate law degree, the LL.M. for for-
eign law graduates. “We’re the

Undergraduate
Campus Croups

ee ee

¢ Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA)

¢ Knowledge Empowering Women
Leaders (KEWL)

¢ Minority Student Association (MSA)

Student Association for
International Learning (SAIL)

@ Women’s Forum
* Joyful Noise Gospel Choir

¢ Programming for the Respect of
Individuals and Diversity in
Education (PRIDE)

¢ Black Female Alliance (BFA) —

Law School Organizations

Ce ae ee ee

¢ Black Law Students Association (BLSA)
¢ Asian-American Law Students (AALS)
¢ Federalist Society

¢ Democratic Society

¢ Christian Law Students (CLS)

* GayLaw

¢ National Lawyers Guild

@ Women’s Law Student
Organization (WLSO)

¢ International Law Society (ILS)

Religious Organizations

Ce Oe 8 ee ee Oe ee 88 Oe eee 8 8 8 8 8 ee 8 ee 8

¢ Baptist Student Union

° Canterbury Club

* Catholic Campus Ministry

¢ Generals’ Christian Fellowship

* Good Shepherd College Group
¢ Hillel

¢ Muslim League

¢ Presbyterian Campus Ministry

* Reformed University Fellowship

¢ ‘Innity United Methodist College
Group

* Young Life

 

Ww a ech as 2“ « aM id

<x

fon Me ALS Wm)

IM ¢ Ae GA ee]

N

E

Diverfity

only top 25 law school without this program,” said Dean David Partlett.
“American experience is prized in foreign countries. This will be a sig-
nificant program for us. By bringing in these graduates, you add a dif-
ferent perspective.”

 

Faculty Recruitment

 

Faculty need to lead such classroom dialogue, and W&L faces
tough competition for minority teachers as well. “There are not that
many African-Americans in the teaching market, and there is huge
competition for those who are,” says Associate Dean David Millon.
All law schools use a national clearinghouse, which distributes
resumes of about 500 entry-level candidates per year. W&L choos-
es from among these to conduct interviews at a “job fair” annually
in Washington. ‘he Law School also looks for experienced teachers
to hire as “laterals.” “Our success depends on our efforts. You have
to be proactive. You have to go out and find good people,” says
Millon. “I think we enjoy a good reputation among minority law
teachers for our commitment to diversity.”

This fall, excluding adjuncts and visitors, the Law School will have
three African-American faculty members: Dorothy Brown, Adam
Scales and Blake Morant. Millon is Asian-American. About one-third of
the Law School faculty are women.

Undergraduate faculty recruitment is challenging, too, particularly
as many senior faculty are due to retire. Associate Professor ‘Ted
DeLaney ’85, was the only African-American professor to walk the

Colonnade for almost 10 years. Lucas Morel, assistant professor of pol-

 

   

itics, joined him in 1999. ‘There are two Asian faculty members, Ken
Ujie and Janet Ikeda, who teach Japanese. Eduardo Velasquez, pro-
fessor of politics, was born in Venezuela. Adedayo Odofin, Originally of
Nigeria, will join the journalism faculty this fall, and’Xiomeng Yang, of
China, will teach economics. Visitors add a welcomed dimension,
Mohammed Kamara, a native of Sierra Leone, Africa, (see Page 21)
teaches in Romance Languages, and Monica Capra, from Bolivia
is in the Williams School. ‘Tharius Sumter, an African-American, will
teach politics this fall. Of 188 undergraduate fulltime faculty in
2001-02, 44 were women; only six of 68 full professors are women.

As with the Law School, undergraduate faculty recruitment must
be aggressive. “There is a persistent attitude that we would like to
recruit more minorities, but that Lexington is a small town, that the
market is competitive. We need to stop making decisions for other peo-
ple. If this is the person we want, let them decide,” says Boetsch,

 

—_—————
Classroom and Cultural Experiences

$$

 

Course selections in the catalogue are more diverse than ever.
‘There is a new interdisciplinary program in women’s studies, a pro-
gram in East Asian studies, courses on African-American and Latin
American art, history, literature and politics. Still, there are gaps. “We
now realize that unless we change the faculty, curriculum and stu-
dent life, changing admissions policy won’t make a difference. We
must offer courses that give rich variety. Some of the courses have to
be those that help these ethnic students learn more about their back-
grounds and ethnic traditions,” said Beckley.

    

 

‘Ted Archer’s high school record was perfect for
college admissions: top grades, strong SAT
scores, president of the Student Council, cap-
tain of the varsity basketball team, starter on
the football team, soloist in the chapel choir
and a volunteer counselor steering youngsters
away from drugs. The only thing Archer
lacked on the fiercely competitive college
front was money.

Yet, having grown up in Newark, N.]J., the

son of a nurse and a computer operator, there’

was no way Archer could save and borrow
enough to attend a top-ranked liberal arts col-
lege like his other high school friends.

“Ted Archer has traveled a long way from
Newark to Newport,” said Burke Rogers, asso-
ciate director of college counseling at St.
George’s School near Newport, R.I. “He is a
scholarship kid who has risen to the highest
position of leadership at a fancy New England
prep school. He has the charm, wit and work
ethic to go on to bigger and better things.”

Now Archer has that chance. Though a
financial commitment from the H. J. Heinz
Co. Foundation, Washington and Lee this fall
will welcome the first three Heinz Scholars. In
addition to Archer, recipients include: Franklin
George Lubsey HI of Bowie, Md., and
Douglas Che Allen of Pittsburgh.

‘The scholarships cover tuition, room and
board, student activity fees and other acad-
emic expenses. ‘The scholarship also offers:

an internship in the Heinz Pittsburgh
headquarters following the freshman year

a domestic internship in a Heinz affiliate
after the sophomore year

an internship, international if possible, with a
Heinz company following the junior year

the strong possibility of employment with
Heinz after graduation

Moreover, both Heinz and W&L will help
students navigate the maze of the academic
and business worlds with mentoring programs.

‘The program targets students from dis-
advantaged backgrounds whose academic
work, public service and leadership roles
reflect their promise as fresh thinkers,
active citizens and future leaders. The
number of awards ultimately could increase
to cover 16 students per year. “It’s an amaz-
ing opportunity for me,” said Archer.

Washington and Lee was selected for the
program because of the University’s national
prominence, its dedication to interdisciplinary
and international learning and its centuries-old
foundation of honor, H.J. Heinz Co.
Foundation officials said.

W&L’s_ emphasis
on a diverse curricu-
lum and its push to
further broaden its
student body—whose
1,777 undergraduates
in 2001-02 repre-
sented 46 states, the
District of Columbia
and 48 countries—

  
 
    
   
 

also was instrumental
in Heinz’s decision to
partner with W&L.
Acting President
Laurent Boetsch °69
said, | he Heinz Uo =
decision to join with
Washington and Lee
in this scholarship pro-
gram represents a part- |
nership based on common institutional
values and exemplifies the best of what can
be accomplished through educational and
corporate collaboration.” : |
For young people like Ted Archer, the
W&L-Heinz partnership is the realization
that Henry Heinz was right when he said 139 _
years ago: “A real leader does not walt for
opportunity but makes one for himself.”

 

 

Washing ica and

 

Ree ee A we ar

MAGA ZENE

 

 

 

OH d

ul sO

mv i

nHeOoOoVe

MY

— ee ¥
During winter term 2003, Monea Hendricks ’04, of Washington,

| be the first African-American student to take advantage of an
ram with Atlanta’s Spelman College, a historically
ve. W&L also has an exchange with Morehouse,
an all-male HBC.

“As a sociology/anthropology and poli-
tics major, black studies are of pivotal

wil
exchange P08!
black female colle;

interest to me. Unfortunately, Washington
and Lee does not offer a significant num-
ber of classes in this area,” she said. “I
hope to seize every opportunity there and
to meet positive, black, women leaders.”

Yet it is in the classroom, where the
international and minority students feel
most comfortable.

“My experience as a student of color has
been one of extensive learning, inside and
outside of the classroom,” said Hendricks.
“T have learned to tolerate people and
ideas that are different than mine.
Unfortunately, others on this campus have
been less tolerant of different ideas and
people. I have experienced different treat-
ment because of my race. However, it has
not been overwhelming nor unbearable.
Being a student of color at W&L is a chal-
lenge, but the educational rewards are
great and that is what is most important to me. Apart from that, I actively
have been involved in many organizations that support diversity.”

Jeff Cook says W&L presented him with “a challenging four years,
but they were among the happiest of my life.” Cook “came out” his
sophomore year, because he said, the school values of honesty and
integrity dictated it. He endured taunts personally and publicly in the
student press. “|here were some difficulties in the frat house,” he said,
“but mostly my brothers rallied for me.” When he ran for president of
the Executive Committee, his opponent’s slogan was, “Ill be straight
with you.” He helped fight to change the anti-discrimination policy. “I
love W&L, and I will always be an active alumnus,” he said.

There remains education to be done, as is evidenced by this
quote from an exit survey of the class of 2001. “I hate this new forced
diversity thing the administration is trying. It has not gone unnoticed
that there are a lot of kids who are here now who would not have been
here four years ago. Many of them come here after being told W&L
is a certain kind of place that they would fit into. Then they get here
and realize they don’t fit in and then start trying to change things.
While many of these students are very intelligent, they would have
been much happier attending a different school.”

It is hoped that the John W. Elrod University Commons will
offer new social outlets for all students. Students themselves have
been helping to close the gap, with new organizations (see side-
bar).“The best things are those that bubble up from students,”
Said Professor Keen.

This year, W&L, launched its theater season with a production of
The Colored M useum,

’ a biting satire on racial stereotyping performed
y the first-ever al]

04 black cast. One of those was Kimberly Sampson
‘i > Whom Keen describes as “very quiet and shy.” The young
om: ‘
a blossomed in the performance, she said.
t will take oi: =
: ll take 10 years of constant vigilance,” Beckley predicts.
ea ;
n Penn, who opened the PR.LD.E. forum in March, told stu-

dents: “We’ or
* Were at a different place than we were just four years ago.” §

iverf/ity

 
  

Opportunity
and Justice for All
In the spring of 1992 Thomas Shepherd °52 and his wife,
‘The Rev. Nancy H. Shepherd, were flying to his 40th
reunion at Washington and Lee. It was just after the

_ Los Angeles riots. “He wanted to do something that would

make a difference,” said Rev. Shepherd. |
The couple spoke with Randall P. Bezanson, then-

dean of the law school, about a scholarship for a minority

student who would agree to work either in the prosecution

or defense side of the criminal justice system. “I felt I could

make a specific contribution, that I could have a specific

_ response,” explained Shepherd, a Boston-area businessman.

“We need to have society accept the justice of the legal sys-

tem, and in order for that to happen, the system needs to — .
be as representative as it can be.” He created the T: H. 4
__N.H. Shepherd Scholarship and Research F ellowship.
Tobi Bromfield ’02L, of ‘Tampa, Fla., was a recipient _
of his generosity and his vision. “The scholarship was
extremely meaningful to me in that I’ve been able to.
pursue a path towards my legal career with fewer financial | - -
strains than are generally associated with attending law
school. The purpose for which. the scholarship was
- established, to fund a legal education for minority students |
~ who are interested in the criminal j justice system, particu-
larly criminal defense, i is a noteworthy goal. During, fy
- first summer internship, I had the opportunity to work -
with an extraordinary program, the Georgia Justice © -
Project, with a mission of providing committed defense -
counsel to criminally accused indigent pe w ee a - |
| uniquely wholly rehabilitative range of services.”

_ The GJP is headed by Doug Ammar 89L.
Bromfield said, “] have been both alee in th

classroom. as well as a to > actual ues ee -

Joa to ane sini pitas aed and — _
to be heard ona motion in the Roanoke City Circuit oe _. |
on behalf of one of our clients.” — |

Bromfield graduated i in May and seeks a ob is in the
, health-care industry 1 in Atlanta. |

TOBI| BROMFIELD ’O2L_

 

/) r
Wash i WG <b Oe MN and

 

IME eR Gia ke 7 aN E

 

oO 3 24

a A et . Mee Of): CA SG

.waud a Kh

 

7 Ae ee

A @

A 12 N EOE aoe i ¥ a

‘

L

Diverfity

Graham Frankel ’02, of Roslyn, N.Y., first heard of Washington and Lee’s
Hillel chapter as a freshman. Hillel is a national campus organization for
Jews. “I recognized the name and put my name down,” she said. “That
was the last time I heard from them.”

‘Three years later, that changed. Interest in the organization grew. There
were occasional dinners, trips to the synagogue in Staunton as well as a visit
to the Holocaust Museum in Washington. In 2001, upon the recommenda-
tion of Richard Marks, professor of reli-
gion, W&L hired Joan Robins as the
organization’s director. An invitation
from the “birthright israel” (sic) pro-
gram, which selected five W&L stu-
dents to travel to Israel, soon followed.

The 10-day trip spurred student
interest on campus. “First Friday at
Five,” a service welcoming Shabbat, is
now among the organization’s monthly
events. The “Very Interesting
Professors” luncheon series is another
initiative to encourage dialogue
between students and professors. At
one meeting, Philosophy Professor Jack
Wilson discussed the challenges of an
interfaith marriage. The grouped orga-
nized a Seder, inviting members of the
Lexington community, and started a
newsletter, 7he Star, to reach out to
W&Us Jewish alumni. In the most recent issue, Niv Goldberg ’93 wrote of
narrowly missing an explosion perpetrated by a 16-year-old suicide bomber
at the entrance to her neighborhood supermarket in Jerusalem.

Hillel is not the only religious organization that has struggled to
make its voice heard on campus. When Shehzad Niazi 02, of
Richmond, and his friends first broached the idea of forming a Muslim
League, their motivation was simple. “We thought it would be a great

Toleranc

nd PCat Titi re

5

GRAHAM FRANKEL ’O2 oF HILLEL AND SHEHZAD
NIAZI ’O02 OF THE MUSLIM LEAGUE WORKED TOGETHER
AFTER SEPT. 11 TO FOSTER BETTER UNDERSTANDING.

 

 

way to unite the local community and to get to know more
Niazi said. “I thought the group would give Muslims
since we are such a small minority on campus.”

With Sept. 11, the new group faced unexpected challenges, “Ay yan
any tragic event, people were looking for answers to a lot of ques
Niazi said. The students led a discussion at the local Anglican church hal ‘
ing to answer them. “Even though occasionally you hear of ignorant chin

being done or said, the communi

response seemed positive,” said Niazi.
It was then, too, that Niazi tea

ized the value of a Strong sy |
group. “It’s important for any di
minority to have some Solidarity
strength behind their voice,”
said. “This proved to be especial]
after events like this when grief,
otism and confusion mixed to Produce
both positive and negative responses.”
In just one year, the Muslim
League managed to become a4
respected and appreciated group on
campus. ‘The 20 members, comprised
of W&L undergraduates and law stu-
dents and VMI cadets, organized a
public fast during Ramadan and visit-
ed religious classes to talk about their —
experience with the Islam.

Sept. 11 also spurred Hillel and the Muslim League to work together
on projects. “I think working with other religious groups on campus is a_
major goal to teach understanding and tolerance,” Niazi said. “Also, it’s real-
ly fun to get to know other people with strong beliefs and open minds.” 4

The Muslim League’s leadership this fall will be Sarah Jafri 05,
of Pakistan, Imran Naeemullah 05, of Barrington, IIl., and Ahmed

,
More of a yo;
V |
Olea

 

  
  
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  

Ppo
Stiner
CO pu
Niazi
y true
Patri-

 

The law school continued its tradition of leading
the University in the cultivation of diversity by host-
ing numerous symposia, lectures and discussions
during the past school year. These events shed
interesting perspectives on legal issues of the day.

The Race and Ethnic Ancestry Law Journal
(REAL), The Environmental Law Digest, Black Law
Students Association (BLSA), Asian-American
Law Students (AALS), Federalist and Democratic
Societies, Christian Law Students (LS).
GayLaw, National Lawyers Guild (NLG),
Women’s Law Student Organization (WLSO) and
International Law Society (ILS) all sponsored
events. Activities ran the gamut from brown-bag
lunches with professors to a question-and-answer
session with a gay couple raising a family.

In the wake of Sept. 11, the Asian-American
Law Students Association (AALS), which organized
in 1999, sponsored a dinner discussion concerning
the U.S. government’s detention of 1,800 people
without procedural due process. Topics included
profiling, the detention of Japanese-Americans
during World War II and the balance between
freedom and security in a democratic society.

In March, REAL sponsored the “Race

 

Discrimination in Health Care Symposium,”
which drew attention to the sometimes substan-
dard medical treatment received by people of
color, as well as the location and quality of hospi-
tals in white versus non-white areas. Professor
Timothy Jost, the Robert L. Willett Family
Professor of Law, led the discussion.

GayLaw, invited several speakers to campus,
including a gay couple with one adopted child and
another born through surrogacy. As a side note,
Becca Miles, ’03L (the surrogate mother) and
Herman Hoying, ’03L formed GayLaw in the fall
of 2000 to help foster discussion about legal issues
facing gays, lesbians and bisexuals. GayLaw, along
with the ABA, Democratic Society and NLG, also
sponsored a discussion by Martha Ertman, associ-

ate professor of law at the University of Denver, on

alternative views of family, including the desirabil-
ity of recharacterizing marriage and other relation-
ships as business arrangements.

The Democratic Society and NLG co-spon-
sored other events, including a talk by attorney
Mark Zaid on April 12. Zaid represents families of
Pan Am flight 103, the plane that was crippled by
a bomb and crashed in Lockerbie, Scotland in

 

Waechingtonrn and

Younis °04L. Seth Martin ’04, of Bryn Mawr, Pa., will lead Hillel. ¢

  
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
    

1988. All of the passengers and crew, as well z
about a dozen people on the ground, were killed.
Zaid recounted the details of the incident a
described in-depth the investigation, theories
lawsuits and prosecutions arising from the crash.

In early April, The Environmental Law Dig
invited Thomas Sansonetti ’76L, assistant attor
ney general for environment and natufé
resources. ILS organized discussions by
Professors Roger Groot, Rick Kirgis and Cliff
Larsen on the failure of the United States to live
up to a treaty obligation that requires CoUntIe>
to allow arrested foreign nationals to speak with
their embassies. ILS also hosted a lunch with
Professor Mark DrumbI to discuss the situation
in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

WLSO sponsored several brown-bag lunch-
es with female professors who discussed theif
experiences in the legal profession. BLSA alse
hosted its annual potluck supper and discussion
on Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday. LS

The multi-denominational group — C.
(Christian Legal Society) sponsored movieg
weekly prayer sessions and legal and religio
discussions.

   
  
 
 

 

Ce ee Km wl

A G A Zien &

 

ee

Ss

ee

Se

ae
_
.

ts
i

|

BU
is -

Hi
Bis

i
Ges ie
_

OS

-

i
fe
yy oe

|

OEE oe

- _.

_
 .

ee

So - .
is iia

_

_.

ge
gs

_

ys

: . ;
CC
Bs

y
LL
a
B oe oe

ss . z

Be
——

of i

os i
be £
ee
_ ie

i ee
—
_

ee
/
/

i
z
j es is bs ee
Di ere Pie
LF

is
ey

_ iB
y

 

Diverfity

On the afternoon of July 26, 2001, John Maguire °53 got an
unexpected call from the late Washington and Lee President John
Elrod. With a distinct shortness of breath in his voice, Elrod asked
Maguire to deliver what he called a “pivotally important” speech
in University history—one that would launch the public phase
of W&L’s $225 million capital campaign. Maguire was already
committed to a conference in New Orleans, but if he could work
out the logistics, he promised Elrod, he would be there. Elrod, who
suffered from cancer, died the next morning.

‘True to his word, on Oct. 20, Maguire delivered his speech as an
homage to Elrod—an unblinking assessment of W&Ls strengths
and shortcomings. “Things that might have once been luxuries—
global experience, multiracial
understanding, technological
mastery, genuine wisdom—
are now necessities,’ he told
the Lee Chapel gathering. “Are
Washington and Lee’s dreams
aimed squarely toward those
necessities and has it the means
to achieve them? ‘The answer to
the first question is a resounding
‘Yes.’ ‘The answer to the second
is, ‘Not quite yet.’”

Maguire continued:
“Washington and Lee students
deserve the diversity of experi-
ence, of multiple perspectives,
of learning how to live together
amicably and to delight in each other’s company that a genuine
interracial, multicultural student body provides. Human diversity 1s
indispensable for improving and sustaining the quality and texture
of a top-flight educational experience.” Asked to sum up his mes-
sage after the speech, he replied, “The world needs Washington
and L.ee—but Washington and Lee needs the world.”

“Halfa century ago, when I entered Washington and Lee, if you
had talked about diversity, the need for color, you’d have been hoot-
ed out of there,” says Maguire, president emeritus of Claremont
Graduate University in California and senior fellow at CGU’s
Institute for Democratic Renewal. “But somehow the speech
appealed to the better angels of their nature.” Coming less than
three months after Elrod’s passing—and in the wake of Sept. 11—
he adds, “There was an electric quality that morning with that
audience that I’ve rarely felt.” Afterward, Mimi Milner Elrod came

up to Maguire and told him, “It was exactly what John wanted.”

With a résumé that includes 28 years as a college president, and |

an unbroken commitment to social justice and civil rights dating
back to the seminal Freedom Rides of 1961, Maguire can see, in
hindsight, “an incredible continuity that I was not conscious of at

the time.” ‘The journey that brought him back to campus is the

Read the full text of Meee speech at

newsoffice.wlu.edu/NewsReleases/maguirespeech. pdf

 

improbable song of a Southern son, the tale of an “unreflective seg-
regationist” who was transformed by the power of higher education,
“My life,” says Maguire, “was turned around by my undergraduate
experience at Washington and Lee.”

Growing up in a segregated Florida town in the 19405,
Maguire was the son of the leader of the state’s Southern Baptist
movement, which all but ordained that he would have to g0 to the
church-affiliated Stetson University. Desperate to get away, he
read of a new fellowship being offered to scholar/athletes from the
Sunshine State by Washington and Lee. “It was going to be the

9

American Rhodes,” says Maguire, a journeyman football] player
during his high school days in Jacksonville and a member of the
Generals’ 1950 Gator Bow}
team. “So I was the first Dick
Mayo Lykes scholar, and that
permitted me to escape.”
Entering W&L in the fall of
1949, Maguire didn’t think of
himself as a bigot: “I really did
believe in two levels of society,”
Philosophy Professor E.D.
Myers opened him to new ideas,
while Dean James Graham
Leyburn, professor of sociology,
“chipped away at any doctrine of
inherent racial superiority or infe-
riority,” he says. “By the end of
my sophomore year I was on my
way to being a racial egalitarian.”
Maguire even interviewed 11 families in Lexington about their
lives for a senior paper titled “Negroes in Rockbridge County.”
Despite pressure from his father to become a Baptist ministet,
Maguire persevered with his desire to be “a professional and intellec-
tual,” like his W&L role models. He got married, studied abroad on a
Fulbright Scholarship and reluctantly enrolled at Yale Divinity School,
graduating summa cum laude. Maguire continued his studies at
Yale Graduate School on a fellowship, completing his Ph.D in 1960.
Not long after arriving in New Haven, Conn., Maguire got
involved in his first public action over race. “When my wife,
Billie, and I went to look for an apartment to rent, we went C0
the Yale Housing Bureau, which in those days listed by race-
If a landlord did not want a person of color, they could say S°
and Yale would put it right in the book. And that just seemed
inherently wrong.” A week before the start of classes, @
successful boycott led by Maguire and classmate Bill Coffin
forced the Yale Housing Bureau to remove any restrictive
covenants based on race.
Further back, Maguire’s first brush with race relations came @ s
sophomore at W&L, when he and classmate Ruel Tyson ’53 (now
ty of North

director of the Institute for Humanities at the Univers!

 

 

Washing tex an @

bay ee 4 ow we

Mes ASG ee aie Ne ge

 

 

DNiverfity

 

sarolina at Chapel Hill) attended a weekend conference at Crozer
I iosical Seminary. There, Martin Luther King Jr—who was
hree years Maguire’s senior and a second-year divinity student at
-* ac assigned to him as a roommate. “It was the beginning
Crozet—was a5°'5

of a lifetime frienc
Ann King Magulire.
Maguire helped King with his fundraising efforts up north for

the Montgomery lr
us hit on New England college campuses”—and participated as

iship,” says Maguire, who named his daughter

“It’s hard to believe it lasted only 17 years.”
nprovement Commission—“He was an enor-
mo

a discussion lea
n February 1961. “That’s the first time I ever heard

der for a series of lectures King was giving at Cornell
University |
about the Freedom Rides,” says Maguire, who by then was a first-
vear assistant professor at Wesleyan University in Middleton, Conn.
| An effort to desegregate interstate travel in a nonviolent fash-
‘on, the Freedom Rides were the brainchild of James Farmer,
national director of the Congress of Racial Equality. One
Saturday night in May 1961, Maguire was in New Haven cele-
brating the birthday of Bill Coffin, who had returned to Yale as
chaplain, when word came that the Freedom Riders had been
horribly beaten—the second action against the movement in six
davs. He and Coffin realized that its work needed to carry on,
and by ‘Tuesday night, they were on an integrated bus traveling
from Atlanta to Montgomery, Ala., where they were arrested and
incarcerated. Following six months of Freedom Rides by more
than 1,000 individuals and a petition by U.S. Attorney General
Robert Kennedy, the Interstate Commerce Commission ended
racial segregation in bus terminals that November.

“The strategic genius of the Freedom Rides was that it was so
apparent that the interstate commerce clause would apply because,
by definition, bus transportation is interstate,” says Rick Tuttle, a
junior history and government major at Wesleyan at the time of the
Freedom Rides. Although Tuttle never took a class under Maguire,
several of his fraternity brothers spoke highly of “this brilliant, high-
ly erudite new instructor,” says Tuttle, who served as Los Angeles
city controller from 1985-2001 and is now director of the Dashew
International Center for Students and Scholars at UCLA.

As word spread quickly on campus that Maguire was partici-
pating on the Freedom Rides—accompanied by David Swift,
the plain-spoken chairman of Wesleyan’s religion department—
his actions inspired ‘Tuttle and his roommate to follow suit. “We
Were ensconced on a ‘Trailways bus in New York and too late to
Catch up,” recalls ‘Tuttle, who served on the human relations
committee of Wesleyan. “I missed that one, but I wouldn’t miss
the next Opportunity.” In the summer of 1963, as a first-year
Staduate school at UCLA, ‘Tuttle joined the civil rights move-
oat in Mississippi and Georgia following the riots in
Birmingham, Ala, “

John had set the tone by not only talking
about it but actuall

y doing something,” ‘Tuttle says.

Associate provost at Wesleyan in 1970, Maguire wrote an op-

ed pj , ,
Plece for The New York Times suggesting that public colleges—the

State University of New York in particular—had the social respon-
sibility to be open to all taxpayers whose money supported them.
‘That led a call from New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller, who invit-
ed Maguire to sit down and discuss his views. By year’s end,
Maguire became the second president of SUNY College at Old
Westbury—“what the press came to call a Third World, poor peo-
ple’s college,” he says. “I took that phrase as a badge of pride.”

After 11 years on Long Island, Maguire headed west in 1981 to
assume the presidency of CGU, a tenure that lasted 17 years. But
his work was far from over. Encouraged by John Hope Franklin—
who was finishing his stint as chairman of President Clinton’s
Initiative on Race—and his boyhood friend Bill Moyers, and with
the support of the Schumann and Kellogg foundations, Maguire
created the Institute for Democratic Renewal at CGU to continue
his work in racial justice.

The institute’s main project, titled Renewing Democracy
‘Through Interracial/Multicultural Community Building, has produced
a 40-page “Community Builder’s Tool Kit” for people who want to
establish and sustain racial and cultural cooperative activity.
Published in six languages, about 70,000 copies are in circulation to
date. In addition, the institute has established community-building
training centers in Albuquerque, N.M., Broward County, Fla., New
Orleans and Seattle, with plans to add more. Maguire is also working
with journalist Bill Wong on a book, to be published later this year,
detailing five “vibrant and vital” projects studied by the institute.

Beginning July 1, the work of the institute will merge with the
San Francisco-based Project Change Anti-Racism Initiative, an 11-
year-old offshoot of the Levi Strauss Foundation and the largest cor-
porately funded project of its kind in America. “A person of John
Maguire’s stature has access and entrée that others don’t have,” says
Shirley Strong, Project Change executive director. “People respond
to him regardless of their race, gender, or background. His involve-
ment sends an incredible message to the white community.”

Strong marvels at Maguire’s tireless commitment to his work.
“He’s at the point where he could retire and enjoy his life,” she says.
“He’s a rare individual.” Says Maguire: “I tell friends that in 1998 I
began act three of my life, and I foresee doing this on a full-time
basis for the rest of my life.”

Last November, less than a month after his speech at

Washington and Lee, Maguire returned to Jackson, Miss., to attend

a reunion of all living Freedom Riders. Despite vast positive
changes in the last 40 yearr—“No one can ever underestimate the
changing of the legal structure,” he says—other items have crowd-
ed racism off the agenda. “One of the things that this institute is
attempting to do is to bring back into the center of public discussion
just how structural and institutional racism still lurk barely below
the surface.” Echoing the words of King, he says, “We have come a
long way, but we have a long way still to go.” #

Oe ae ee ee ee ee ee ee a ee oe ee ee ge ee ae ee a ae ee SS a are ee na ee

(Dick Anderson ts a free-lance writer who lives in Los Angeles.)

 

W a&-S§ h 1 wv. Gg tao Ww au d

ed

Lie HE AAU wh te")

Wit Ags G A a4e le Ne E

7
J

On the morning of Sept. 15, 1963, an
11-year-old boy rose from bed in
Birmingham, Ala. It was Sunday, a
day most Southern families reserve
for large family gatherings, a heavy
afternoon supper and, most impor-
tantly, church. In Birmingham at the
time, a house of worship not only
was a place of prayer, but also a safe
respite from the civil rights battles
roiling the nation, especially the South.
By that day in 1963, George Wallace
had already stood in the school-
house door, Martin Luther King Jr.
had written from the Birmingham
jail and marched on Washington
and Bull Connor had unleashed his
dogs and fire hoses on civil nights
demonstrators, young and old.

It was a hot, humid, s#// Sept-
ember morning in Birmingham.
As Robert Posey ’73 pulled on his
shoes and socks preparing for
church, little did he know that
the events of that day would follow
him throughout his life.

At 10:22 a.m., while he wor-
shipped with his family in one
church, a detonation equal to 10
sticks of dynamite blew a hole in the
east wall of the 16th Street Baptist
Church across town, sending bricks,
mortar, glass and wood flying and killing four little girls near his
own age: 11-year-old Denise McNair and 14-year-olds Addie
Mae Collins, Cynthia Wesley and Carole Robertson.

“Tt sounded like the whole world was shaking,” a man would testify
in court many years later. Church was no longer a haven from hate.

‘Today Posey is surprised and a little bit embarrassed to admit that
he doesn’t remember details of that Sept. 15 morning. All the events
of that time period swirl together in his memory. He remembers a
children’s march that took place in Birmingham less than a week
before. He remembers Bull Connor and the dogs and the fire hoses.
“T suppose my mind was saturated with scenes of unrest,” he says.
Yet Posey would not be allowed to forget what followed.

The most horrific crime of the civil rights era—indeed, the
deadliest domestic terrorist bombing (Americans against Americans)
prior to Oklahoma City in 1995, which killed 168—created after-
shocks that reverberated throughout the South and beyond. ‘The
event galvanized the civil rights community to embrace the cause of
equality, while opening the eyes of moderates to the inherent evil
that lurked in the shadows. The bombers had miscalculated the
effect of their work. Although fear was sown, an unwitting nation was
awakened to the cold brutality and raw hatred that coursed beneath
the surface of an ever-more turbulent South.

Within days, investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investi-

Robert Posey '73 fought for the memo-
ries of four little girls killed in a hate
bombing 38 years ago. BY Matt Jennings 93

 

 
 
   

ts
gation descended on Birmingham, can-
vassing the city for clues and evidence
that would finger those responsible for
the crime. In a month’s time, the FBI
had assembled a list of Suspects, al]
white supremacists, most members of
the Ku Klux Klan. In the Spring of
1965, a memorandum sent by FBI field
agents to director J. Edgar Hoover con-
cluded that “the bombing was the
handiwork of former Klansmen Robert
E. Chambliss, Bobby Frank Cherry,
Herman Frank Cash and Thomas E,
Blanton Jr.” ‘Then, silence. The four
would go about living their lives, their
names unknown to the world, while

[SMAN WVHONIWHTE AWM AW OLONd ‘LHOIMAAOD

victims’ families grieved and a nation

   

searched for answers. Court documents : |
reveal that Hoover prevented FB] J
agents from sharing with prosecutors .
evidence that would implicate the sus- :
pects. In 1968, Hoover essentially ;
ended the investigation, pulling all but 2
a few agents off the case, relegating the ’
bombing to the ash heap of history. :
The whole thing was a J. Edgar a
Hoover cover-up from the beginning,” °
insists Morris Dees, co-founder of the ;
Southern Poverty Law Center. “He ;
wanted people to believe that blacks 3|

were bombing their own churches.”
Others believe Hoover’s motivation

°
'
.
.
.
’

was that he didn’t want to expose FBI informants.

As the Birmingham bombing case entered a period of dormancy,
Robert Posey left his hometown, enrolling at Washington and Lee
in the fall of 1970. Posey took science and math classes, joined a
fraternity and basically breezed through college. He served a brief
Army commitment, worked for a bank and went to law school |
because he “did better on the LSATs than all the other tests.” All y
in all, it was an inauspicious beginning for a future prosecutor who 7
would later find himself addressing a jury in one of the most
emotional and significant legal ordeals in this country’s history.

“The defendant killed this beautiful child because of the color of
her skin,” said a now-adult Posey, an assistant U.S. attorney, as he
gestured at a photo of Denise McNair decades after the bombing
that took her life. “He killed those four worshippers in God’s house
on a Sunday morning because he was a man of hate. ‘These children
must not have died in vain. Don’t let the deafening blast from his
bomb be what’s left ringing in our ears.” With that, Posey closed the
state of Alabama’s case against Thomas Blanton just a year 480
A short while later, Posey, U.S. attorney Doug Jones and the rest of
the prosecution team retreated to makeshift strategy room, where

 

 

 

they settled in to await the jury’s decision in a case that had already
waited far too long for justice to be served.

V/V

 

 

Wasth & # gt x and

Liste Te HA LY yes

IM OAS Ae Ze le Nee

 

 

t Posey had just matriculated at the Cumberland School of

Rober
Law at Samford

bing suspects | —
- | Baxley had reopened the investigation into the 16th

University in Birmingham when the first of the four
was brought to trial in 1977. Alabama Attorney
General Bil |
et Church bombing in 1971, and after five years of legal wrangling
e
re btain access tO the FBI files on the case, he managed to secure an
to O
indictment an a , ) |
Bob” Chambliss. Chambliss died in prison in 1985 while serving a life
0 | j
entence. But again, much like in the mid-’60s, silence followed.
5

Though Baxley hd ee
read the files identifying
Cash, Cherry and Blanton
as suspects, he felt he did-
n't have enough evidence
to bring charges against the
other alleged conspirators.
While somewhat improved
since Hoover’s death, the
level of state/federal coop-
eration was still weak.
Though the FBI had sup-
plied case files to the
Alabama attorney general’s
office, the bureau had not
disclosed everything in its
arsenal, including the

d conviction of alleged ringleader Robert “Dynamite

names of informants and
electronic surveillance
tapes that would further
implicate the suspects.
Two more decades
crawled by before interest
was renewed. ‘The 1994
conviction of Byron De La
Beckwith in Mississippi for
the 1963 murder of Medgar
Evers seemed to stir
Birmingham’s conscience
to life. Community leaders
and activists demanded a
further examination of the
church bombing, and in
ms, the FBI agent in charge of the Birmingham field office and a
ity police officer began to sift through reams of material gathered by
federal and state offices since 1963. In 1997, the FBI officially
opened the investigation; a year later a federal grand jury was
mpaneled to determine whether Frank Cherry and ‘Thomas Blanton
Should stand trial for the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church.
“When I was first assigned to the case, I asked one of the investi-
sators how [the investigation] was going, and I was stunned by his
““Sponse,” Posey says today. “He said, ‘Visualize putting a new coat of
Paint on the Titanic.
faced with bin upon
SUrveillance ta

h

’” Instead of a smoking gun, investigators were
bin of dusty files and seemingly endless reels of
- Posey said they would sit for hours, straining to

© tinny tracks. “When you came to a good part, you’d

 

get excited,” he says, “but it’s not like the tapes were indexed. ‘There
was stuff we could use, but it was sprinkled through hours of tape.”

Although the prosecution was closer than ever to bringing a case
against the two surviving suspects (Cash died in 1994), Posey admits
that at the beginning, the chance of constructing a solid case was
remote. ‘Thirty-five years had elapsed since the horrible crime, and
while the investigating team was successful sifting through the
mountain of evidence, it was uncertain whether the passage of time
would prove to be friend or foe. While the racial climate in the South
was markedly improved
since the days when segrega-
tionists controlled the strings
of power, time also meant
that potential witnesses had
passed on, and once vivid
recollections among the
living had grown fuzzy. As
the investigation progressed,
however, Posey says the
foam Became mote
encouraged. New witnesses
emerged, and the prosecu-
tion finally obtained poten-
tially damning evidence that
had languished in secrecy for
nearly four decades: audio-
tapes containing “Thomas
Blanton’s voice talking about
planting a bomb.

SV

In early 2000, the Justice
Department determined it
would not bring federal
charges against Cherry and
Blanton. ‘The statute of limi-
tations to bring a federal
murder case against the two
men had long since elapsed,
and while there was still the
possibility of charging them
with a federal crime for the
transportation of explosives
across state lines, it was a feeble case at best—more than one dyna-
mite plant was located in Birmingham at the time.

But the prosecution had a contingency plan. ‘Though it was an
unusual request, it was not unprecedented when Jones and Posey
sought permission from the state attorney general’s office to present
the case to an Alabama grand jury. Permission was granted, Jones and
Posey were appointed special state prosecutors, and in May 2000,
Cherry and Blanton were indicted on state charges for the murders of
McNarr, Collins, Wesley and Robinson.

Posey, who decided early in his career he wanted to be a prosecu-
tor because of the interesting cases, has certainly had his share. As a
federal prosecutor he handled 11 murder cases, as an Alabama district
attorney he handled 10. But the cases against Blanton and Cherry are

 

el

© LORd adv

the first hate crimes he has tackled. One of the hurdles he has faced
is one built entirely on superficiality: Thomas Blanton and Frank
Cherry don’t look like monsters. In fact, if you are Southern and
white, they may look like your grandfather or elderly uncle. Posey
speaks of the time J.B. Stoner, an avowed white supremacist and
former Klan Grand Wizard, appeared before the grand jury.
He arrived wearing a, a

 

straw boater and bow
tie, and relied on a
cane to get around.
“He was the most
pleasant, polite per-
son,” Posey says,
“until he opened his
mouth, and this
venom poured out.”
Since Blanton and
Cherry would never
have to testify them-
selves, Posey knew
that getting their
heard—

voices filled with vile

voices

hatred toward any-
one different than
they—would be the
prosecution’s biggest
challenge.

In 1964, the FBI planted a microphone in Blanton’s kitchen
wall, which subsequently recorded him telling his wife about a Klan
meeting “when we planned the bomb.” On another tape made by
a friend-turned-informant, Blanton is heard saying he wouldn’t be
caught “when I bomb my next church. ” Posey says that when he
first heard the kitchen recording he thought, “this is great. Now
how are we going to get it into court?”

The prosecution successfully anticipated a defense motion to
suppress the evidence, because the tapes had been obtained with-
out a warrant, but managed to convince the judge to admit them.
(Prior to 1968, Karz v. United States, it was standard procedure for
the Department of Justice to authorize electronic surveillance for
national security purposes without permission from the court.)
Most legal experts believe that the tapes were the key piece of evi-
dence in the case against Blanton. “I was skeptical that there was
going to be a conviction,” Bryan Fair, a law professor at the
University of Alabama, told PBS’s The News Hour With Jim Lehrer
after the trial. “It’s very difficult to try a case 38 years later and con-
vince a jury that you have the right person. I think the tapes were
very compelling and ultimately swayed this jury.”

Posey says he had a lot of emotion running through him when he
delivered his closing arguments to the jury, especially when he spoke
of Blanton’s hatred and willingness to kill. He says it took a great deal
of practice to get through it without becoming overly emotional.
“T tried to focus on laying out the facts,” he says, “but when you start
talking about four children being murdered in a church....” Posey has
met with the victims’ families, has spoken to Addie Mae Collins’s

 

 

sister who was disfigured in the attack, has hugged the paral al
Denise McNair. He has thought about how torturous this Wait for q
justice has been and how agonizing it must be to lose a child. He has
thought about this in very personal terms, not just because he was
a child in Birmingham at this time, not because Denise McNair
would be his age, but because now he has two daughters of his own,
one of whom is 1].

WV

owl

The prosecution ]
team was summoned —
back into court from q
the strategy room in |
less than three hours, ]
Thinking the judge j
simply was polling
the jury on how late
the members would
Stay that evening,
everyone was
stunned when the
bailiff announced
that a verdict had _
been reached.

 

“Instantly, my
knees grew weak,”
Posey says, “but
when I heard the
verdict, I felt this
tremendous rush.” A jury of 11 women and one man (eight white,
four black) found ‘Thomas Blanton guilty on four counts of murder,
After barely two hours of deliberation, the jury had decided a case
that had taken 38 years to come to trial.

“It’s wonderful that they convicted Blanton,” Morris Dees says.
“It’s so important not to let these things go unresolved. People were
killed because of what they represented.” Time, Dees added,
doesn’t change that.

Cherry was convicted on May 22, but not without a few anxious
moments for Posey. Cherry was expected to stand trial with
Blanton, but was bumped from the case because he was ruled to be
mentally incompetent. After further evaluation and hearings, how-
ever, he was declared fit for trial. Next, jury selection was delayed
and the trial postponed by a funding crisis in the Alabama court
system. As during the Blanton trial, time was of the essence. Then,
a fully-equipped emergency crash team waited in the wings while
an infirm, elderly FBI agent, weeks removed from a heart attack,
testified; another witness, who could place Blanton at the scene,
had his testimony entered into record through transcripts because
a stroke had limited his ability to speak ’

Blanton and Cherry received life sentences, but they are eligi
ble for appeal.

Nearly 40 years have passed since a bomb shattered the quiet of
a Sunday morning; long enough for one 11-year-old boy, blessed
with life, to grow up and help bring to justice those who denied that
opportunity to four little girls. ¢

 

 

Limes WE hy ada

IM. she 2G ZA ge7, i CNT UE

 

 

 

 

SOR

 

st thing you see as you approach Kendal at Lexington, the con-
= J

The fir

rinuing care re

-irement community that opened last July, is the Adopt-A-

Highway sign indicating that Kendal residents are keeping the next two
ighway SIP

miles of Enfield Road free from trash.

The clean-up project 1s coordinat-
ed by Henry Sharp, former W&L math

:
professor, Harrison B. a! 47 and
Earle Bates ’54, who dominate the
work crew. Sharp says, “T didn’t find it
at all surprising that our Rockbridge
County residents brought with them to
Kendal their already established volun-
reer habits, but | was astonished at how quickly our ‘out-of-town’ resi-
dents rallied in support of this VDOT program.”

The spirit of volunteerism has spread quickly into many areas, prov-
ing that Kendal residents, many of whom have Washing-
ron and Lee connections, are not retiring from civic
responsibility. ‘They are reaching out to help the libraries,
service organizations, schools, historical societies and
churches of Lexington and Rockbridge County.

A number of Kendalites volunteer at the Rockbridge
Regional Library. Bobbie Woolfenden, widow of George
42. and daughter of Rupert Latture °15, devotes an after-
noon a week to thanking those who have made donations.
Jeanne Kibbee serves on the board of trustees. Yvette
Wise, widow of John H. Wise, professor emeritus of chem-
istry; Bill Watt, dean emeritus of the college, and his wite
Helen, help process books. Libby Chiles works on the
Books by Mail program, and Kinney and Louis Harlan talk
on their respective biographies of James ‘Thurber and
Booker ‘I? Washington in the Friends of the Library lec-
ture series.

Several residents do their volunteer work on wheels.
Virginia Huffman began driving cancer patients to
Roanoke and Charlottesville with her husband, the late
Forrest E. Huffman °36, in 1985. She has driven more miles than any
other driver for the local chapter of the American Cancer Society. Lloyd
L. Craighill, father of Lloyd Jr. 76 and George ’84, and Alta Fowler, a stu-
dent at W&L during World War II, also drive for the A.C.S. Three resi-
dents deliver Meals on Wheels. Four others, including Harrison Kinney
"47 and Ginny
Beeton, widow of
Aft Beeton ’39,
drive patients to
medical appoint-
ments locally.

Adetarce
Simpson, grand-
mother of Ken
Zelenak ’96, reads

to second and

   

    

o * : eg J
HENR ee © mye
Y
SHARP, FORMER W&L MATH PROFES-

’ HELPs
KEEP ENFIELD ROAD CLEAN. third graders at

ee Dl

Professors,

Retirement Power

Enrich Community

 

Waddell Elementary School. Sharp, David Emory and Watt serve as
mentors/tutors to students in the county schools. Fran Drake, professor
emeritus of French, tutors French.

Margaret Craighill is among several Kendal docents at the
Campbell House, the museum of the
Aha mice Rockbridge oe aoe and oth-
ers serve the historical societies of Bath
and Highland counties, as well as
Rockbridge. Kendal residents are on
the local boards of the American

Garth

Center,

Society, Hospice,

Cancer

Newel, Virginia Horse
Stonewall Jackson House, Montessori School and the Historical Society.
Most of Kendal’s residents are involved with area churches, serving

the altar guild, outreach, choirs and bell choirs. Mary Coulling, wife of

| LIBRARY VOLUNTEERS: YVETTE WISE, WIDOW OF JOHN H. WISE, PRO-|
-FESSOR EMERITUS OF CHEMISTRY; BILL WATT, DEAN EMERITUS OF THE —
COLLEGE, AND HIS WIFE HELEN, AND BOBBIE WOOLFENDEN, WIDOW OF

GEORGE ’42, AND DAUGHTER OF RUPERT LATTURE 715. |

 

Sidney Coulling ’46, Blount Professor Emeritus of English, works with
women’s circles in her church. Others help with bazaars and publications.
Hal Head, registrar emeritus, is a trustee of his church. “It makes sense
for retirees to volunteer,” says Mary Coulling, “because we have more
time and schedule flexibility than working folks. In addition, volunteer-
ing enables us to remain active, stay in touch with old friends and meet
new people. There’s always something to do.”

Nancy and Steward Epley *49 serve as volunteers for Project
Horizon, an organization providing assistance to victims of abuse. She and
Elinor Denny decorated a Christmas tree for Project Horizon’s fundrais-
er Festival of Trees, which sold for $750.

Ruth Woodcock, president of the Residents Association summa-
rizes, “Being connected to the community is important to Kendal volun-
teers—and we enjoy it. We also enjoy and appreciate the many volun-

teers who come to Kendal and enhance our lives here. Among our most

-welcome volunteers are the W&L students who regularly visit residents

—Bill Watt

in our assisted living center.”

 

Photos by Patrick Hinely ’73

 

ao 4 9 3 sce

Ralph O. Harvey Jr.
celebrated his 90th birthday on
Oct. 17, 2001. He lives in Wichita
Falls, ‘Texas.

<O— 1 940 ——S

John W. Johnston

enjoys retirement at his old family
farm in Lexington, which was pur-
chased by his grandfather around
1870.

OO Boe

James A. Russell Jr.

became a great-grandfather. The
young lady’s name is_ Sarah.
Russell lives in Jonestown, Miss.

Joseph C. Street
is in his 54th year of practicing law.
He lives in San Antonio.

O— 1942 —S>»

W. John Daniel

welcomed his first great-grand-
child on his 54th wedding anniver-
sary last November. Daniel lives in
Huntsville, Ala.

Robert W. Root

is being kept alive by prayer and
the medical profession. As he says,
miracles are also being experienced.
He lives in Silver Spring, Md.

“2 1948 —c>

Dr. Marvin L. Daves
enjoys retirement in Prescott, Ariz.

Toa 1
Col. Michael J.
Barrett Jr. ("51L)
and his wife spent two weeks in
Australia last October visiting their
daughter, Cheryl Barrett Hutchison
°89, her husband and their two

daughters. “The Barretts live in
Alexandria, Va.

_.1950——o>

Arthur A. Birney ('52L)

entertained U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor and
her husband, John, and reports it
was great fun. Birney still enjoys
sailing. He lives in Annapolis, Md.

Dr. Robert S. Mendelsohn

is happily retired, enjoying golf,
tennis, fly fishing, reading, visiting
his seven grandchildren and help-
ing deliver flowers for his wife’s
flower shop. He lives in St. Louis.

- Fg ——_Sc>

The Rev. James C.
Fenhagen Il

has been named the new warden
for the College of Preachers in
Washington, after serving a 14-year
tenure as dean and president of the
General ‘Theological Seminary in
New York City.

Tom Wolfe

was selected as one of eight recipi-
ents of the 2001 National Humani-
ties Medal by President George
Bush. Winners are nominated by
the National Endowment for the
Humanities for their work in liber-
al arts. Wolfe is author of The
Bonfire of the Vanities, A Man in Full
and The Right Stuff, among other
titles.

a. § § § 2 —__¢c>

Ceorge E. Eagle

saw many classmates at his 50th
reunion. As two daughters’ wed-
dings are set for June and August,
he expects to be broke but happy
by years. end. He lives ‘in
Washington.

Hugh C. Newton

is recovering from quadruple
bypass heart surgery and will
return to work part time. Newton
is semi-retired from his public rela-
tions firm in Washington. He is the
father of Matthew Newton ’94 and
the proud grandfather of Lindsay
Paige, born last July.

O--.1 95 B-—__>

Robert F. Duguay

retired last year from Penn Security
Bank & ‘Trust Co. in Scranton, Pa.,
as its senior vice president, trust.
Shortly thereafter, he formed and
became president of Fiduciary
Investors’ Group in Waverly, Pa.,
specializing in investment advisory
services. After 27 years of cred-
itable service in the Naval Reserve,
Duguay continues in an inactive
status in the U.S. Naval Academy’s
Blue/Gold Officer Program, inter-
viewing selected area candidates
for the Academy’s admissions
board.

The Hon. Hugh S.
Clickstein ("55L)

was hosted by Sir James Hunt of
England’s High Court on a recent
trip to London. He was introduced
to the barristers in the court and
given a tour of the civil trial courts
and appellate courts at the Royal
Court of Justice. He lives in Aspen,

Colo.

 

   

errerrerrresrsmee..
: eames PER ae

posed

The Alumni Association’s second annual ski trip
Keystone Resort in Keystone, Colo., Jan. 30-Feb. 3, drew 2
alumni from ‘Texas, Florida, New Jersey, Alabama, Kentuc
Colorado and Virginia. Jason Rosener ’98, Olympian in Naganc
Japan, and former member of the U.S. Ski Team, joined
group for mountain instruction and the NASTAR Alu
Slalom Race on Friday. Entertainment was provided by Chr
Edwards ’99 and Rob Mish ’76, director of alumni progra
One highlight of the weekend was a sleigh ride in a sleig
pulled by Belgian draft horses through the snow-covered valle
to an old cabin, where the group enjoyed a cozy Old West-sty
dinner and some cowboy songs. The only weekend casualty was
Mish, who collided with a snow boarder and broke his col
bone. Read more about the weekend at alumni.wlu.edu/regio
al_events/Colorado20002/nastar_race_results.htm. Plans already
are underway for next year’s event at Park City, Utah, home to
many of the ski venues for the most recent winter Olympics.

Pictured left to right, first row to fourth row: Harry Pressley 58,
Rob Mish ’76, Debbie Armstrong ’92L, Jill Hoge, Jim Wir
°70L, Hugh Sprowl ’58, Jennifer Bray Stratton *89, Nicole
Rosener, Mark Stratton, Susan Brown, Beckey Brandt Condi
90, Tom Lovell 91, Patsy Pressley, Jason Rosener 798, R
Brown ’89, Chris Edwards ’99, Neal Cory ’77 and Preston Co
Missing from the photo are Chuck Cahn ’70, Molly Winn Bu
Walter Matthews °59 and Judd Babcock ’63.

Austria against Denmark and from
World War I in Poland, Ukraine,
Italy, Yugoslavia, Hungary and
Slovenia (see “Letters” on page 3).

tO ¢95 4

Dr. Herwig R.

Brandstetter

keeps himself busy as a member of
the board of the Austrian Black
Cross, War Graves Commission.
He is renovating cemeteries from
the 1864 war between Prussia and

H. Cordon Leggett Jr. 2
and his wife, Patricia, enjoy livins

Va.

in their house in Lynchburg,

 

Wa

Ss

h

ieetos ys and

 

  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 

  

 

ey relocated in the sum-
99, His wife's emphyse-
heir travel together.
ett spent eight

where th
mer of 19
limits ¢
less, Legg

ma
Nevertheless, 7
davs with his three daughters,
Tan Jane and Carey, traveling
Susan, J¢

autiful ‘Luscany.
chrough beautift

o> 1955 aa
christian A- Luhnow
has published a guidebook to
\fexico, where he has lived for the
past 30) years. The book can be
found in first-class hotel rooms in
ajor resorts and cities of

the m
line at travel-

\fexico and also on
suidemexico.com.

Rudolph J. Stutzmann
has moved to Hyde Park, N.Y.

m™  1956—-<<>
James B. Lunger
is sorry he missed the 45th
reunion. He is looking forward to
the 50th in 2006. He lives in
Waynesboro, Va.

<_< - we ke
Donald S. Luria
was appointed to the Arizona
Commission on the Arts by Gov.
Jane Hull. Luria, owner of Cafe
Terra Cotta and a longtime sup-
porter of the arts, also serves on the
boards of Arizonans for Cultural
Development, UApresents, ‘Tuc-
son Museum of Art and the
‘Tucson Symphony Orchestra.

a | 958 —c>
W. Rowland Denman
is the chairman of the Oklahoma

City National Memorial Founda-
tion.

—— | a. >

Richard L. Kuersteiner
enjoyed seeing classmates, profes-
sors and W&L friends at his 40th
class reunion last May. He lives in
Hillborough, Calif.

Dr. Charles P. Riley
IS the new director of cardiology
Services at Baptist Medical Park in
Pensacola, Fla. He enjoys golf,
hunting and fishing and is also
doing some legal review work.
m= 1963 ©
Theodore A. Doremus Jr.
S Pleased about his growing law
— : oe financial
Polk & e °F office of Davis,
ome Sone
lee 3 = in the
is has no intention of
8 trom his practice. Doremus

enjoys traveling, together with his
wife and their two sons, both of
whom live and work near their
home in McLean. He continues to
enjoy his activities as a board mem-
ber of Blair Academy in New
Jersey, Good Samaritan Mission

Services in Orlando and the Capitol

Hill Club in D.C. Doremus regrets
he hasn’t been back to campus 1n a
while, as he cherishes the four years
he spent there.

David R. Crogan

would like to announce the birth of
his first grandson in May 2001.
Grogan lives in Statesville, N.C.

The Hon. Joseph E.

Hess (’63L)

was presented with a Resolution of
Appreciation by Harry L. Carrico,
chief justice of the Supreme Court
of Virginia, at the Judicial Confer-
ence of Virginia for District Court
Judges on Aug. 13, 2001. It recog-
nized Hess’ 34 years of service to
the judiciary and, in particular, his 10
years of service on the Committee
on District Courts. Hess has been a
judge for five decades in Lexington
and the surrounding areas.

O—- 1964 —S»

Tain P. Tompkins

is happy to have a daughter at
W&L. He enjoys his regular visits
to W&L after many years of living
abroad. ‘Tompkins resides in
McLean, Va.

 

This is a group with muscle—alumni returing for the W&L Wrestling Invitational on Jan. 19. Front row

ee

 

O— 1965—S»
The Hon. Walter H.
Bennett Jr.
is the editor of 7he Lawyer’ Myth, a
book published by ‘The University
of Chicago Press (2002). He lives
in Chapel Hill, N.C.

J. Lindsey Short Jr. ('67L)
is president of the American
Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers,
the nation’s top 1,600 divorce and
matrimonial law attorneys. Short is
a former chair of the State Bar of
‘Texas Family Law Council, the
Family Law Committee of the
‘Texas ‘Trial Lawyers Association
and the Family Law Advisory
Commission of the ‘Texas Board of
Legal Specialization.

O— 1966 —©&>

Maurice R. Fliess

retired at the end of 2001 as vice
president of publications of the
Freedom Forum, the media foun-
dation that created the Newseum
in the D.C. area; The First
Amendment Center and the
Diversity Institute at Vanderbilt
University. Fliess continues as a
consultant with the Freedom
Forum. He and his wife, Elfi, live
in the Nashville suburb of Brent-
wood, ‘Tenn.

Dr. Gerard T. Taylor
is director of operations at INO

‘Therapeutics Inc., in Port Allen,
ba.

Ou. § 9 67 ——-G>

W. Lawrence Fellman

is repaying his debt to society and
Professor Emeritus John Gunn by
teaching “Common Sense Eco-
nomics” in S.M.U.’s continuing
education program.

D—__ 1968 —c”»

Joel S. Kline (’74L)

was proud to see his daughter,
Katherine, graduate in June 2001
with the sons and daughters of so
many other classmates. ‘he class
of °68 was apparently not only
intelligent but productive as well!
He lives in Potomac, Md.

Jorge Estrada

is a producer of the Argentine film,
“Hijo de la novia” (“Son of the
Bride”), which was nominated for
an Academy Award as best foreign
film. The film is Argentina’s high-
est grossing film of all time. It also
won Best Latin American Feature
at the Montral Film Festival.

42, OG 6

Reed B. Byrum

is president-elect of the Public
Relations Society of America
(PRSA) for the year 2002. During
the previous year, Byrum served as
treasurer of the 19,600-member
professional and ethical society.
Previously he served as director of
corporate public relations at EDS
in Plano, ‘Texas, where he served
as spokesperson for the $19 billion

 

from left: Ray Gross ’80, Coach Gary Franke, Mike Deighan ’86, Larry Anker 86. Middle row from left:
Manoli Loupassi ’89,Win Phillips ’86, John Brome ’40, David Mintz ’77, Brian Lifsted ’86 and James
Crytzer ’77. Back row from left: Tim Valliere ’84, Tom Oxendine *79, Roger Durham ’77 and Rich

Redfoot ’89.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ly Thien Nguyen ’03L, of Nutley, N.J., is
the first recipient of the Schlegel Prize for

International Studies. She will attend a peace

conference in Ireland.

The prize honors Cmdr. Robert Allan
Schlegel ’85, who was killed in the terrorist
attack on the Pentagon on Sept. 11. Schlegel
served as deputy current operations and plans
branch head for the Chief of Naval

Operations.

 

“We wanted something that would help a student solve the sort of

problems that gave rise to this event,” said Andrew Haring ’85, Schegel’s

college roommate and fraternity brother. Haring and Andy Dewing ’84

worked with Schlegel’s wife of 14 years, Dr. Dawn Schlegel, to create the

memorial prize. ‘The award is for a student who proposes an internship,

research, conference opportunity or study project devoted to the topic of

international relations and/or international peace. ‘The University wel-

comes additions to the Schlegel Prize Fund. Donors can earmark a gift

by noting this designation on a check or campaign pledge form and

returning it to the Office of University Development. For more infor-

mation, contact Peter Cronin °84, director of development, at 540 463-

8165 or pcronin@wlu.edu .

information services company. He
lives in Austin, ‘Texas.

Dr. Stuart L. Porter
presented seminars on wildlife
medicine at three different veteri-
nary schools and one national vet-
erinary meeting. He has also pub-
lished a CD-ROM, entitled “Wild-
life Under the Microscope.” He
lives in Ft. Defiance, Va.

Bruce S. Samuels
has a son who will be a senior at

W&L. He lives in New Orleans.

fo. (£8 7 ¢ Ga

David B. Calt Jr.

received a master’s in professional
counseling in 2000. He is working as
a counselor at St. Louis Academy in
St. Louis, a private school serving
severely behavior disordered youths.
He also has begun a two-year resi-
dency at Care and Counseling,
which provides individual, marital
and family counseling.

Dr. Thomas E. Reynolds

and his wife, Charla, will be cele-
brating their 25th wedding
anniversary in 2002. Both of their
sons are currently in college. Keith
will be a senior at the University of
Richmond and William who

will be a sophomore at Duke.
Reynolds lives in Culpeper, Va.

O—_. 1 973 —_<>

Cregory P. Buch

is the production manager of the
Academy of Music in Philadelphia.
It is operated by the Regional
Performing Arts Center, which just
opened the acclaimed Kimmel
Center for the Performing Arts.
Buch was production manager of
Glimmerglass Opera in Coopers-
town, N.Y., for 10 seasons and the
production and business manager for
the Avery Arts Center at Bard
College for the past two years.

Dale M. Rhodes

is director of finance for the South
Carolina Education Lottery. He still
continues in his position as a com-
missioner of the South Carolina
Deferred Compensation Commis-
sion and as an adjunct professor of
accounting at the University of
South Carolina. Rhodes retired from
the U.S. Army Reserve, after 28
years of service.

1874 eo

John Paul Woodley Jr. ('77L)

works for the Bush administration
as assistant deputy under secretary
of defense for the environment
within the office of the Secretary of

A LU M Nt N E w s

 

Defense. In this position, Woodley
is responsible for global environ-
mental policy, oversight, advocacy
and representation of environmen-
tal safety, occupational health, pest
management, unexploded ordi-
nance management, explosives
safety and fire and emergency ser-
vices programs for defense activi-
ties that ensure cost effective and
efficient use of resources.

Sa—- OF G «Gs

John L. Cray Jr.

enjoyed the 25th reunion. He
would like to thank classmates Bill
Garrison and Clay Jackson for their
leadership. Gray lives in Atlanta.

fo eo Oh

Dr. Michael H. Clary
practices as a family physician in
Richlands, Va. He and his wife,
Jane, have two children, Faith, 6,
and ‘Iravis, 5.

Ross L. Edgar
is a senior software engineer with
Achievement ‘Technologies Inc. of
Columbia, Md. His job includes
writing educational software for
use over the Web.

Robert D. Lutz

would like to express his apprecia-
tion of his former professor, George
Ray. “No teacher at any level had
had a greater impact on me—an
effect no doubt intensified by hav-
ing ridden shotgun in an under-
sized Ford (the Purple Prose)
while Dr. Ray kept shouting ‘Help
me out here, guys!’ as we comical-
ly navigated the roads_ of
England.” Lutz hopes that in his
well-earned leisure, Ray will join
him in Louisville, Ky., for a play
and a pint.

to eee Ue}

Mark W. Hampton

is excited about his son, Matthew,
joining the freshmen class in the
fall. He is looking forward to fre-
quent campus visits with his wife,
Carrie, to catch up with ’70s vin-
tage W&L friends. They live in
Parkville, Mo.

Ronald W. Spain

coaches in a youth instructional
lacrosse league in Rhode Island
and participates in the Boy Scouts
with his son, Eric. His daughter,
Allison, attended the Summer
Scholars program at W&L last July
and loved every minute of it. They
live in East Greenwich, R.I.

 

O— 1979 oa
Cardner T. Umbarger TT
completed his Ph.D. jn Special
education from the University of
Kansas in July 2000. His area of
study was family and disability po}.
icy studies with a minor concentra-
tion in health policy and manage-
ment. He is director of special ser
vices for two school districts in
north central Wyoming, ‘Together
with his wife, Lynne, and his
daughter, Chloe, he lives in
Greybull, Wyo.

O-_ {| 98Q0— as
David E. Constine II]
was selected by Virginia Business
Magazine as one of Virginia’s Legal
Elite in the area of labor and
employment law.

OO 1981 — ae
Jeffrey W. Hamill
is senior vice president of advertis-
ing sales and marketing at Hearst
Magazines. He lives in Darien,
Conn.

Cc. Bryan Williams

was named the 2001 Presidents’
Athletic Conference (PAG)
Women’s Soccer Coach of the Year,
Williams and the Lady Cats, of
‘Thiel College in Greenville, Pa.,
had their most successful season
ever, posting a 7-10-4 overall record.

O. +1982 —

Barry R. Dunn

is a principal at GTCR Golder
Rauner, a private equity invest
ment firm in Chicago. He lives in
Wilmette, Ill, with his wife,
Kathleen, and their two sons, Barry
Jr. and Jackson.

OW 1983 —ae

Kenneth P. Manganiello

is a regional sales manager with
Slam Dunk Networks Ine.
Located in New York, the compa-
ny’s global infrastructure provides
guaranteed application-to-applica-
tion delivery of messages and
transactions over the Internet.

Cerald I. Moyer Ill

is a partner with a small real estate
development group in Washing
ton. Keener Squire Properties SP&
cializes in renovation of downtown
apartment buildings. He lives im
Arlington, Va., with his wite,
Nancy, and their children, Andrew,
9, Allison, 6, and Meagan, 2.

Camden Wood Selig
received the Council for th

e Ad-

 

Wa

Ss

h

iw ot * and

IW ee OG.) AA eZ

I

 

 

 

 

  

 

and Support of
(CASE) Outstanding
Doctoral Dissertation Award at its
al conference 1 San F rancisco.
“Donor Predictability
at the University
of Virginia,” explored ny of
‘astitutional giving among VU. a
alumni athletes. His scholars Ip
cited for groundbreaking work
‘avolving college and _ university
relationships with their alumni.
CASE awarded Selig its $2,000
d writing prize plus an
all-expense paid trip to its national
conference in San Francisco and a
at the annual meeting.

yancement
Education

annu
Gelig’s study,
Among Athletes

was

resear' ch an

program slot

oe 6 €6=C(é«Gi( 9 8S ey 2 5
Richard A.O. Bennett
relocated to France in order to
begin working at a Parisian
biotechnology company named

ee ir. io
Hybrigenics. His past position
that of a research associate at
Harvard School of Public Health.

Dr. Guy A. Caldwell

was named a Basil O’Connor
Scholar of The March of Dimes for
his research into the molecular
basis of birth defects in the brains
of children. Listed among the for-
mer recipients of this honor are the
director of the Human Genome
Project and multiple Nobel Prize
winners, including W&L alumnus
Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein ’62.

Christopher M. McCowan
enjoys working for Chubb & Son.
He lives in Cohasset, Mass., and
surfs whenever possible.

Maj. Charles A. Pfaff Jr.
completed an Arabic language
course at the Defense Language
Institute and is now serving with
the United Nations on the Irag-
Kuwait border.

mm 1987-c>»
Capt. Michael P. Beatty
fesides in Williamsburg,  Va.,
together with his wife, Elizabeth
and their three boys, Zachary, 10,
lyler, 8, and Matthew, 3. Beatty
Was assigned to Fort Lee, Va., to
the Logistics Exercise & Genula-
ton Doctorate under the National

Simulation Center. His responsi-
bilities

- include supporting the
“mys battlefield simulation effort

In the are; a .
a ot combat Servic
al Ser 3
po ICC sup

Donna DeBonte
feured from her en
to Manage a

Bedminister. N.J

“

gineering career
horse farm in

W a

ji

Richard E. Lail

moved back to the Chattanooga,
Tenn., area in 2000. He lives on
Lookout Mountain, together with
his wife, Barbra, daughter,
Lindsay, 4, and his son, Harris, 2.
He is still vice president of mar-

keting for Southern Forms, a spe-

cialty manufacturer of steel forms
for bridges.

224988 ——c>

Jeffrey A. Branflick
is finance director of Prime Markets,
where he previously served as

 

finance manager. A Capital One
associate since 1996, Branflick,
based in Richmond, now manages
the finance function for the super-
prime and prime credit-card and
installment-loan businesses.

—.. §$oga0 Cc

Maj. Philip A. Dupont
earned his master’s in Asian stud-
ies from the University of ‘Texas at
Austin, last December. He will be
attending a one-year language
training program in Beijing, China,
beginning in July.

The Rev. Edward D. Ludwig
and his two boys have enjoyed a
great year kayaking, golfing and
skiing. Things at Bethel Presby-
terian Church in Salineville, Ohio,
seem to be going well.

Paul McKinstry

moved to Charlotte, N.C., in the
fall of 2000, together with his wife,
Maria, and three boys, Carter, 5,
Justin, 3, and Garrett, 1. McKinstry
continues his work for Deloitte &
‘Touche in the technology and
communications practice.

S.A.B.U. Sparks Informal Reunions

In August 2000 Robert Ford '75 organized a cookout to gather members of the former Student
Association for Black Unity (S.A.B.U.) from the Maryland-D.C.-Northern Virginia area. “We had all

been very close friends in school,” said the Hon. John Hargrove ’76, a Maryland district court judge

who lives in Baltimore. “But most of us had not seen each other since Washington and Lee.”

AN ARCHIVE PHOTOGRAPH OF A S.A.B.U. DANCE
FROM THE 1970S.

 

Back then, Hargrove re-
calls, Washington and Lee was
“oreat on many levels and wacky
on many levels.” Diversity
became an issue later. ‘Then,
they were in the early stages of
integration. ‘here weren’t many
other minority students.

“l was a theater major,
which made me a minority
within the school another way
as well,” explained Hargrove,
who hasn’t returned to the cam-
pus for any alumni functions,
although he did drop by campus
once on his way to a judicial
conference. “Everything was
driven by the fraternities—we
did participate, went to parties
and sporting events. I received a
great education. But I’m not
close enough to the people in
my class to return.”

Instead, the cookouts have
become an annual event for
these S.A.B.U. members. And
they keep in touch through an

e-mail list that was passed around at their first gathering. “Our bond is those years we spent in

Lexington,” said Hargrove. “These are people I lived with and spent a considerable amount of time

with. We talk about all the crazy wild stuff we did—basically the typical college experience. S.A.B.U.

was like any other club—a group of students who decided they had a common interest and were going

to band together.”

—Lort Stevens

 

 

 

 

te ee

 

DANCING AT THE ALUMNI CELEBRATION SATURDAY, MAy 3.
MUSIC WAS PROVIDED BY ALUMNI MUSICIANS—BANDS AND SOLOISTS.

As 621 reunionists and their guests descended popular “60 Minutes With the President” ses- 9.1-mile bike ride, a 2.4-mile canoe-kayak race

upon Lexington May 2-4, it was as if the lyrics sion, and Dean David Partlett did the same for and a final 1.1-mile run. ‘The relay was spon-

to the old Sister Sledge song came to life: “We Law School alumni. Later, more than 60 sored by the Sunrise Rotary Club. The cool-

are family. I got all my sisters [and broth-
ers] with me. We are family, getup, ev’ry-
body and sing.”

It was the 50th anniversary of the
class of 52 and the 25th for the class of
77. In addition to favorite barbecues,
receptions, picnics and softball games,
the weekend was packed with all kinds of new
events.

Friday’s activities stretched the mind, as
participants attended seminars on terrorism,
intercollegiate athletics and the image of law

in popular culture. Acting President Laurent

Boetsch °69 answered questions at the ever-

Reunion 2002

e@ Are Family!

May 2 - 4

alumni joined a hike to the top of House
Mountain.

Saturday was the day to loosen the limbs.
Early birds were up at 7:45 a.m. for the leg-
endary Stormin’ Norman Fun Run & Walk.
‘The most ambitious took part in a road and

river relay, which included a 3.5-mile run, a

down event was a walk on the nature
trails on the back campus, where alumni
enjoyed a splendid display of native
Virginia wildflowers.

‘The weekend’s finale rejuvenated
the spirit, as alumni musicians—soloists
and bands—took center stage to enter-
tain with song and dance. Even rain didnt
dampen spirits, when the Alumni Celebration
had to be moved to Doremus Gymnasi-
um/Warner Center. Below: A very popular event
was the hike to the top of House Mountain, attract
ing 62. Among them were Bill Roberts 62 and his
wfe, Gale, and Peter Agelasto °62.

 

Honorary ODK: Hoffman F. Brown III ’77, pastor of Wayland Baptist Church in Baltimore.
Distinguished Alumni Awards: Raymond W. Haman ’52L, John W. Vardaman Jr. ’62 and

Richard R. Warren 57.

Distinguished Young Alumni Award: Andrew R. Caruthers ’87.
Reunion Class Cifts: $3,345,437 from the class of 1952; $1,198,217 from the class of 1977.
Reunion Bowl (for the class with the highest percentage of reunion attendance): 1952.

Reunion Trophy (for the class with the largest attendance): 1992 (112).

Women’s Lacrosse: Generals lost to Longwood College 12-5.

Men's Lacrosse: Generals defeated Limestone College 13-5.

 

 

 

 

 

Rey
Ly
Coy,

    

  

HAMAN °52L.

[mY RE OFF!
oe AND RIVER RELAY SET OFF
ere FIRST
ame EVENT.

NIONS
MEMBERs.
NSTON °96

R
oO

ARE ABO

  

,

S

DISTINGUISHED
WwW. VARDAMAN

R. WARREN
CARUTHERS °87 AND RAYMOND W.

LEG OF [THE FOUR:

JT MEETING OLD FRIENDS AND INTRODUCING NEW FAMI-

rm
RF

 

   

ALUMNI: JOH
762, RICHARD
S7 ANDREW FF.

 

LAURENCE STREULI PINS A NAMETAG ON HER HUSBAND, ED ’52. THEY CAME

FROM MEMPHIS, TENN.

RUNNERS IN THE

  

MATY BLACKSTONE ‘“S82t. AND HIS
WIFE, LAURA LEIGH BLACKSTONE
"Sel ENJOYED THE WILDFLOWER
WALK.

 

W&l. REGISTRAR SCOTT DITTMAN
WITH HONORARY ODK RECIPIENT,
FIOPFPMAN F. BROWN Til 77.

ERT COVINGTON ‘a7 AND JOSEPHINE SCHAEFFER
ATLANTA, SHOW OFF THEIR NEW BABY, NELL.

 

 

 

 

“O._- 4890 —->»

Virginia Brent Jones

moved back to Virginia, together
with her husband, A.J., and their
son, Jack. She will miss all her
Birmingham W&L friends but
hopes that people will visit her
now in Virginia Beach.

W. Brett Mason

is a partner with Breazeale, Sachse
& Wilson, representing maritime
businesses and marine issues
throughout Louisiana.

Dr. John T. Morris

practices nephrology in Memphis,
‘Tenn. He is single, has three dogs
and plays tennis from time to time.

E. Allen Richardson Jr.

is a senior government relations
representative for Georgia Electric
Membership Corp. (GEMC). In
his new role, Richardson works in
the legislative and regulatory are-
nas in Atlanta and Washington to
monitor legislation as it relates to
the state’s 42 electric member cor-
porations and the Georgia ‘Irans-
mission Corp.

Edward T. Rowan Jr.

was named vice president of sales
for Office Source 1n Gaithersburg,
Md. His responsibilities include
growing the online office sub-
sidiary’s presence in the D.C. and
Baltimore metro areas.

Martha Smith Welmaker
was appointed partner in the
Houston office of Andrews &
Kurth L.L.P. Her practice includes
a range of financing and commer-
cial real estate transactions, where
she represents both lending insti-
tutions and borrowers in commer-
cial financing transactions.

$99 <>
Daniel S. Bevill
relocated to London with his wife,
Rosemary, and their two daugh-
ters, Aislinn and Corinne.

Eleanore A. Robinson
is in her first year of veterinary
school at Colorado State University.

a... § OS? >

Emily H. Cuerry

is a program director at St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church in Wilkesboro,
N.C.

a... oo 3 —_-_-c>

Robert H. Jordan

joined Nelson, Mullins, Riley &
Scarborough L.L.P. as an associate
in the firm’s Charleston office.
Jordan practices in the areas of prod-
uct liability, insurance and commer-
cial litigation. He is member of the
South Carolina Bar, the American
Bar Association and the Charleston
County Bar Association. He is
admitted to practice before the 4th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and
the U.S. District Court for the
District of South Carolina.

i {| Oo __ ©»

A. Grace Browder

is researching phytoremediation
(using plants to clean up soil cont-
amination) at the University of
Georgia and at a field site in
Karnack, ‘Texas.

Francie Cohen Spahn
is an associate with Saul Ewing
L.L.P. in the real estate depart-
ment of its Baltimore office.

Dr. J. Talmadge Trammell
began a residency in neurological
surgery at the University of ‘Texas
Southwestern Medical Center in
Dallas in July 2001.

.__ {a0 6 __<>

Istvan A. Majoros
postponed completion of his Ph.D.
at Harvard University’s depart-
ment of government until fall. He
is an associate with the Budapest
office of McKinsey & Co. and is
contemplating the offer to join in
the prime minister’s office as eco-
nomic advisor.

 

 

 

 

As certain as the leaves turn colors in the fall, W&L prepares
to welcome its graduates home. Mark your calendars.
Homecoming Weekend is Oct. 3-5. Visitors will be treated to
peeks at the newly renovated Reid Hall for journalism, with
all of its technology, and the new fitness center. Five-star
Generals will be honored. ‘The School of Law hosts its annu-
al Tucker Lecture, and there will be other seminars through-
out the weekend. The Generals football team takes on

Randolph-Macon. Visit alumni.wlu.edu for more details.

Andrew J. Olmem (’OIL)
works for Mayer, Brown & Platt in
New York City.

John R. Tweardy
wants everyone skiing in Colorado
to call him up. He lives in Denver.

Ashley B. Deaton

is a first-year medical student at
the University of ‘Texas-Houston
Medical School.

Marie E. Lamb

moved to Charlotte, N.C., to work
as a training specialist in the regu-
lation department of the National
Association of Securities Dealers.

Susan E. Prevost
teaches kindergarten in Richmond.

Heather P. Schweninger
enjoys life as a staff geologist with
Civil & Environmental Consul-
tants Inc. in Pittsburgh.

Kathryn E. Sheppard

works for her father, Peter ’72, in
Hanover, Pa.

‘Townsend Heald 797.

     
 
    
 
 
 

The Dallas Chapter hosted a Robert E. Lee birthday event ®
January. Among those attending were: Adrienne Bryan
Wooldridge ’97, Zach Wooldridge 96, Cathy Moser Heald ’97 é

—_—_ i

Christopher B. Wick ('o9,
joined Arter & Hadden LLP ag i
associate. Wick is a member of tha
firm’s business litigation group ;
well as a member of the Ohio Seall
and American Bar associations.

Burke A. Willard

moved to Washington, where he is
living with Drew Schaumber °99
He is working at Greystone as al
underwriter along with Classmate
Jack Larry Bauer.

“O—__ 1998 __o

Jennifer C. Brady

returned to the D.C. area after
transferring for a year to the
Philadelphia office of Arthur
Andersen. She is now beginning
her fifth year within the company’s
risk consulting practice.

A. John Harper

is an associate with the labor and
employment practice group at
Haynes & Boone. While in law
school, he served as a staff member
for the Computer Law Review and
Technology Journal and was a mem-
ber of the Board of Advocates.

Brian J. Hooper

is in his second year of law school
and is executive editor of the
Harvard Journal of Law and Publi
Poly. ‘This summer he will be
working with Sullivan & Cromwell
in New York and with Hunton &
Williams in Hong Kong.

Cc. Scot Kees |
is an attorney in the Atlanta office of
Nelson, Mullins, Riley & Scarbor q

Dallas Doings.

 

 

W a

 

 

 

Kees practices 1n the
aw, securities and

He isa member of the State Bar
ax. S 4 hoeegdtr ment
se Georgi and its business and cor
oO 5

porate counsel sections.

J
igh EokiP. |
areas of corporate

ol

herine A- McFall

moved to Washington, where she
is employed with Public Strategies
Rana public affairs firm.

Kat

Inc..,

mary E- Pressly
eraduated = 1n May
\Medical University of
Carolina in Charleston.

from the

South

Lindsay A. Wood

lives in the F lorida Keys, where
she is a dolphin trainer at the
Dolphin Research Center in
Grassy Key.

m= 1999——

Kendra L. Archer

eraduated from Georgetown Law
School in May. After studying for
the bar, she will be moving to New
York where she has accepted a job
with Shearman & Sterling.

Mark W. Averyt

and his wife, Anna Lowden Averyt
99. live in Norfolk, Va. He is the
communications officer for a staff
in charge of three amphibious
ships. The staff will embark on the
USS. Nassau (LHA 4) for
deployment. She is the director of
marketing for Regent University’s
School of Education.

Justin M. Blackwell

has spent his time since graduation
working for the U.S. Congress in
D.C. and then helping run a con-
gressional campaign in California.
He is now a first-year law student
at the University of San Diego.

James C. Johnson
iS a first-year medical student at
Emory and enjoys living in Atlanta.

Jennifer L. Mandeville
finished her Peace Corps service in
Benin West Africa. At the end of
* Service, she met Jason Hahn
» a Niger Peace Corps volun-
teer. She is back in Virginia, think-
ing of new ways to delay her
~htrance into the job market.

Sarah M. Saalfield

a . aa Rock Marathon last
— "eq en though it was her
262 mn a completed the entire
* — > addition to meeting

$3,000 EE . - she raised over
es the Leukemia and

1a Society.

 

 

Christopher Burnham ’80, of Greenwich, Conn., was sworn in

as assistant secretary of state for resource management and

chief financial officer of the U.S. Department of State on Jan.

30, following his confirmation by the U.S. Senate. Secretary of

State Colin Powell took Burnham’s oath at a ceremonial event

held on Feb. 16 at the State Department. Burnham served

three terms in the Connecticut House of Representatives and

also served as state treasurer.

eee Fes oe ee

E. Lucille Lattimore

is an associate director at Camp
Glen Arden in western North
Carolina.

Sarah L. Riggs

finished her first semester at
Harvard Business School’s M.B.A.
program. She loves her classes and
Boston but hopes to be in New
York City, London or Milan over
the summer doing consulting,
banking or something in the enter-
tainment industry. Riggs attended
Reunion Weekend.

MARRIAGES

 

Richard J. Pierce '87 to Audra

Wadas on May 19, 2001, in
Mechanicsburg, Pa., where they
live. Groomsmen were classmates
Bill Brown and Mark Herman.
Pierce was president of the
Pennsylvania Association of Court
Management, a professional asso-
ciation for all court managers in the

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
for the year 2000-2001.

Hunter A. Applewhite '88 to
Katherine Shield on Oct. 21, 2000,
at Fullstream Farm, the bride’s
home near Richmond. Grooms-
men included Shawn Copeland
90, °95L, David Martin ’92, Rob
Ryan ’88 and Scott ‘Tilley ’85.
James W. Whitehead, retired
University treasurer and director of
the Reeves Center, was a lay read-
er. Applewhite is director of special
projects for Dominion Resources
in Richmond.

Katherine Kelso ’89 to Jim Myers
on May 5, 2001, in Chevy Chase,
Md. She works for the president of
Georgetown University, while he is
the managing principal of GTM
Architects in Kensington, Md. Julie
Snowdon °89 was the maid of
honor. Also attending were Bob
Drake ’88 and classmates Julie and
Rowan ‘laylor and John Gunkel.
‘The couple live in Kensington, Md.

Matthew W. Felber '92 to Ruth
MacDonald on Nov. 3, 2001, on
Sanibel Island, Fla. Rob Mish °76
served as a groomsman. ‘lhe cou-
ple live in Lakewood, Ohio, with

her three sons Garrett, 10, and
Devan and Gavan, 8. Felber is
a loan officer for Huntington
Mortgage Company, a division of
Huntington National Bank.

Jennifer Barrows '93 to Stephen
W. Lehner on Sept. 15, 2001, in
Annapolis, Md. Classmates Mere-
dith Edwards Martin and Jerilyn
Farren ‘Teahan had roles in the cer-
emony. A number of W&L friends
had to cancel travel plans at the last
minute due to the tragic events of
sept. 11. ‘The couple’ live’ in
Manhattan, where she is making a
career leap from law to the fashion
industry.

John P. Leggette "93 to Susan
Godinho on Oct. 6, 2001, in Stone
Harbor, N.J. ‘The couple were mar-
ried on the beach, where Mason
Van Sciver 90 gave the toast follow-
ing the ceremony. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Sebastian Cross, Brandon Green,
Michael and Susan °94 Hill, James
Selway, Daniel Spinosa, Andrew
‘Taggart and Bryan Watkins. Also in
attendance was Caldwell “Eddie”
Hart °91. ‘The couple live in
Newtown Square, Pa.

LaKeisha Townes '95 to SherVin
Fleming on Aug. 26, 2001, in
McDonough, Ga. ‘The wedding
party included ‘Tamara Watkins ’96
and Lee Daugherty ’95. ‘The cou-
ple reside in Fayetteville, Ga. ‘The
groom is a computer consultant
with SR Fleming Enterprises,
while the bride works for
The Body of Christ Christian

Ministries.

Meredith Brown '95 to William V.
Hilleary on June 3, 2000, in
Mobile, Ala. Members of the wed-
ding party included Lois Wootton
95 and ‘Tiffany Gagliardi ’96. ‘The
couple reside in Spring City, ‘Tenn.
‘They will be traveling the state
during his campaign for governor
in 2002.

Andrew D. Crawford '96 to Joy
B. Jordan on Dec. 8, 2001, in
Biloxi, Miss. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
‘Ted Saunders, David Fitzgerald,
Ben Jacobs and Jason Bearden.
‘The couple live in Birmingham,
Ala., where Crawford is the vice
president of strategic initiatives for
Caremark Rx Inc., a healthcare-
pharmacy benefit manager.

David H. Fosgate '96 to Jennifer
A. Dellinger on June 2, 2001, in
Cashiers, N.C. Members of the

 

el

wedding party included classmates
Harris Morrison, Hall Kesmodel,
Griff Russell, Brian Manternach,
Owen and Margie ’97 Smith,
Drew ‘Thomas, Doug Kennedy,
Stuart Hogue, ‘Tom Bradbury and
Julie: Breadbary::’97,) ‘hauren
Guthrie °97, Wright Marshall °95
and John Kleckley ’94. “The couple
reside in Charlotte, N.C.

Stacy Williams '96 to Joe Hanley,
on Nov. 11, 2000, in Atlanta,
where they live.

Eric A. Sproul "96 to Marie Byrd
on Sept. 15, 2001, in Staunton, Va.,
where the couple live. ‘om Kernan
96 served as the best men, while
Peter Dishman ’96 and Jason
Sorens 98 were groomsmen. Also
in attendance were Sproul’s grand-
father, A. Erskine Sproul °37, and
his cousin, Hugh B. Sproul HI ’58.

Caller James '97 to Andrew
Daters '97 on Oct. 28, 2000, in
Natchez, Miss. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Ashley Amini, Alicia Hazlehurst,
Catherine Avant Jones, Anne Van
Auken, Michael Matechak, Sam
Rosen and Marc Santora, as well as
Charles Carabello 796, Peter
Hammond 796, Jennifer Justema
Coon 798 and Stephen Guenther
"99. ‘The couple reside in Baton
Rouge, La., where he is a student
at Louisiana State University
School of Veterinary Medicine, and
she is the assistant director for
Louisiana Health Care Review Inc.

Mary Jo Mahoney ’98 to Duncan
Slidell '96 on July 17, 2001, in
Andover, Mass. ‘The couple live in
Alexandria, Va.

Derrick H. Alford '99 to Suzanne
Blum '00O on Aug. 4, 2001, in
Chapel Hill, N.C. ‘The couple live
in Durham, N.C.

William Cain Ill "99 to Erin
Ashley Partridge '00 on July 21,
2000, in Birmingham, Ala. ‘They
live in College Station, ‘Texas.

Alyssa K. Parlin '00 to Ronald
Norval Brown II1’00 on Jan. 20 in
Niagara-on-the-Lake, | Ontario,
Canada. Classmate John Bubb
served as a groomsman. ‘The cou-
ple live in Haverford, Pa.

Carolyn E. Hudson ’00 to Jack
Hight on Sept. 29, 2001, in Dallas.
‘The couple live in Los Angeles,
where she continues in her posi-
tion as a fund-raising consultant,
and he is a screenwriter.

=

 

Hugh L. Robinson Il ’80 and
Elizabeth Smith Robinson '89, a
son, Stuart Moss, on Jan. 24. Stuart
joins brother, Weld, 4. ‘The family
live in Baltimore, where she is
national sales manager for retail
and consumer markets at “TESS-
CO ‘Technologies, and he is senior
director of commercial client ser-
vices for Bay National Bank

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Cole Ill’81,
a son, William IV, on Dec. 31, 2001.
‘The family live in Louisville, Ky.

Mr. and Mrs. James H.
Campbell’83, a daughter, Bridget
Hall, on Nov. 29, 2001. ‘The family
live in Larchmont, N.Y.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul D. Marasciullo
"85, a daughter, Katherine Rosella,
on Nov. 19, 2001. They live in
Laurel Hollow, N.Y.

Mr. and Mrs. Kevin J. McClatchy
85, a daughter, Eirann Grace, on
Nov. 3, 2001. ‘The family live in
Burbank, Calif.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
McCullough Jr. 86, twins, Robert
Zachary and fan ‘larkington, on
Aug. 24, 2000. ‘They join brothers
Cannon and Willson. ‘The family
live in Nashville, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy M.
Richardson ‘86, a daughter,
Emma Caroline, on Feb. 15, 2001.
She joins a sister, Charlotte. He
works in the Office of Russian
Affairs at the State Department in
Washington, handling the Chec-
hnya and human rights portfolios.
He has been a member of the U.S.
delegations to the ministerial meet-
ing of the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe and the
United Nations Commission on
Human Rights.

Mr. and Mrs. A. McCampbell
Cibson ‘'87, a son, John
McCampbell, on March 25, 2001.
He joins sisters Madeleine, 5, and

Amanda, 2.

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Codfrey
Jr."87, a son, Christopher Knox, on
June 27, 2001. He joins sister
Walker, 5, and brother Jay, 3. ‘The
family live in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Harper 8B.
Trammell '87, a son, Bryan, on
April 21, 2001. The family live in
Houston.

ee ge

 

   

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Suttle
'88, a daughter, Ainsley Catherine,
on June 26, 2001. She joins a sister,
Alden Elizabeth. ‘The family live
in Houston.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Applebaum '90, a son, Michi
Eli, on Dec. 29, 2000. Appleballl 7
completed production as the dir a |
tor of photography for MTV.
“The Real World-Chicago,” His
recent credits also include the Ty
show, “Temptation Island,” and
the feature film, Tempted stapin.
Burt Reynolds. Applebaum con-
tinues to direct his documen
feature film, Beyond Measure, the
story of swamp photographer Julia
Sims, from his production office in
New Orleans, where he and his
family live.

M. Copeland Kapp ’'89 and her
husband, John, a daughter, Mary
Sophia, on Oct. 17, 2001. They live
in Columbia, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Tuggle
"89, a daughter, Caroline, on June
Zi... 2001. ‘She. 4oms - brother
Matthew, 4. ‘Tugegle is the creative
director for ‘The Loomis Agency,
an advertising firm in Dallas.

   

National Notes: ODK |

Washington and Lee made headlines at the Omicron Delta Kapp
biennial national convention in Louisville, Ky., in March. K

Ruscio °76, right, professor of public policy and acting associate

dean of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics :
Politics, was named president-elect of the national organization.

Bill Johnston 61, left, president of the New York Stoe
Exchange, was one of three participants on a panel entitlec
“Outstanding ODK Alumni.” Other panelists were Arlene Dill
senior producer of the “Early Show” for CBS News, and Robet
Jepson Jr., president of Jepson Associates and benefactor of
University of Richmond’s Jepson School of Leadership Studies.

The national service fraternity was founded on the camp
of Washington and Lee in 1914.

In his presentation, Johnston underscored the importance )
personal ethics that was ingrained in him with the Honor Syste
at Washington and Lee. He noted, “Your word is your bo
Today, on the NYSE, $45 billion in exchanges takes place, eve
day, all by word of mouth.” He also noted that honor plays
important part in marriage, acknowledging his wife of 40 years:

(Dr. Malcolm Cutchins, emeritus professor of engineering of Aub
University columust for The Opelika-Auburn News, contributed
this report.)

 

W a

s

h

 

  
    
   
   
    
  
  
 
 
  
  

 
     
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
  

  

$<

and Mrs. Robert E. Martin
4 daughter, Isabelle Ana, on
A Al 14, 2001. She joins sister
iby 5, and brother Alec, 3. They

‘a Richmond.

Dr.

live
d Mrs. Matthew N.
ry 90. a daughter,

Elizabeth Grace, on June 27, 2001.
They live in West Hartford, Conn.

mr. and Mrs. David R. Olson "90,
a daughter, Claire Olivia, on May
i4 2001. They live in Reston, Va.

jonathan E. Ryan (90 and Amy

‘Ol, a_ son,
Hatcher Ryan ;
Nathaniel, on Oct. 19, 2001. The

family live in Ooltawa, Jenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Joel P. Smith Jr. 90, a
son, William Sellers, on Aug. 25, 2000.
He practices law in Eufaula, Ala., as a

ner in the firm of Williams,
Porthoff, Williams & Smith.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Richard
Tomkins IV '90, a daughter, Ava
Emerson, on Dec. 13, 2001. She
joins a. sister, Gracen Maine, 2.
Tomkins completed his second
Hawaii Ironman ‘Iriathlon in
October and is now chasing three
women at home. ‘hey live in
Gallatin, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Scott D. Williams
"90, a daughter, Sophie Ann, on
Jan. 14, 2001. She joins a sister,
Madeleine, 4. They live in
Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Robby J. Aliff ’91
('97L) a daughter, Meredith Blake,
on Dec. 3, 2001. The family live in
South Charleston, W.Va.

Mr. and Mrs. D. Franklin Daniels
dr. "91, a daughter, Sara Catharine
Beatrice, on Sept. 4, 2001. ‘They
live in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven D. Erwin ’9I
: daughter, Emily Kay, on Feb. 4.
Uhey live in Houston.

puricia Lopes Harris ’9! and her
an Jonathan, a son. Benjamin
lichael, on March 14, 2001. The
family live in San Jose, Calif.

E. Leslie Lewis Hil "91 and

tn on Lewis "92, a

. . cr, Virginia Camille, on Jan.
» £001. ‘J hey live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs.
* daughter, M

os

H. Todd Pearce "Ol,
a Brooke, on Oct. 4,

ey live in Germantown
> and look forward to edt

daughters
ghter’s first Visit to Lexington.

Washington

——

Tait North Simmons '9I and her
husband, Tom, a son, Henry
Hoffman, on July 29, 2001. He
joins brother George. Her husband
continues as assistant rector at All

Saints Episcopal Church in
Richmond, with a growing number
of W&L parishioners.

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Taylor ’91,
a daughter, Virginia Worth, on
March 28, 2001. ‘Vhey live in San

Francisco.

Cristina Robinson Warlick ‘91
and her husband, Will, a son,
William Byrd Chesney, on Jan. 11.
He joins sister Isabela. “The family
will be moving to Charlotte, N.C.,
this spring as soon as her husband’s
Army commitment ends.

Sharon A. Widmayer '9I and her
husband, Alan, a son, Edwan
Donald, on Nov. 28, 2001. ‘They
live in Alexandria, Va.

Ashley Hurt Bollwerk '92 and her
husband, William, a son, William
Jack, on. Aug, 3) 200... the
Bollwerks are thrilled that their son
will have so many playmates with
all the other W&L children in
Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Cox Il1"92, a
daughter, Caroline Amelia, on
Dec. 15, 2001. They live in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. M. Hill Goodspeed
"92, a son, Jackson ‘Thomas, on
May 13, 2001. He joins brother
Connor Patrick, 4. Goodspeed
published his second book, a picto-
rial titled U.S. Naval Aviation. In
addition, he also appeared in the
documentary “Battle Stations”
that aired on the History Channel.
Goodspeed works as the historian
at the National Museum of Naval
Aviation.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Haake
"92, a daughter, Adelaide “Adele”
Curtis, on Nov. 23, 2001. She joins
a brother, Sam, 3. ‘The family live
in Newport Beach, Calif.

Julia Veenes Hancock '92 and
Rhett Hancock ’93, a son, Cooper
James, on June 5, 2001. He joins
sister Abigail Charlotte, 3. “They
live in Darien, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Witherington Jr. '92, a daughter,
Elizabeth Ellis, on Nov. 11, 2001.
She joins a sister, Virginia. “The
family reside in Mobile, Ala.

 

and

 

Megan Reese Bollhoff "93 and
her husband, Michael, a son,
Joseph Christopher, on Feb. 22,
2001. The family live in Fort
Wayne, Ind.

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis M.
Cambow ’93, a son, Sam Bradley,
on Aug. 22, 2001. He is a senior
manager with Deloitte and
‘Touche in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Layman
"93, a daughter, Riley Elizabeth,
on Jan. 11, 2001. They live in
Fairfax, Va.

Amy Roberson Lefkowitz '93 and
David Lefkowitz '93, a daughter,
Ella Rebecca, on Oct. 25, 2001. She
joins brother David Samuel, 2. ‘The
family live in Memphis, ‘Tenn.,
where he works at Smith and
Nephew Inc. as a business develop-
ment manager for Japan.

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Schwegel
93, a daughter, Cadence “Cady”
Patricia, on Oct. 2, 2001. She joins
a sister, Hannah, 2. ‘Vhe family
moved to Frisco, ‘lexas. Schwegel
is a plant accountant for Westvaco
Envelope Division in Dallas.

Laura Vawter Hobby ’94 and her
husband, Clarke, a son, Charles
‘Thomas, on Nov. 15, 2001. The
family live in ‘Tampa, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Justin R. McNaull
"94, a son, Caleb Michael, on Jan.
23. ‘They live in Annadale, Va.

Jacqueline V. Codevilla '95 and
her husband, David, a son,
‘Thomas Clifton, on Oct. 24, 2001.
He joins brother, John David.
‘They live in Vienna, Va.

Melissa Malone Colvin "95 and
her husband, Steve, a daughter,
Caroline Grace, on June 26, 2001.
‘They live on Elison Air Force
Base, Ark.

Mr. and Mrs. Neil A. Garde 95 a
son, Aidan Anil, on Jan. 25. ‘They
live in Irvine, Calif.

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Silvester
"95, a son, Jackson Montgomery,
on Dec. 5, 2001. ‘They live in Lake
Forest, Ill.

Sandra J. Holmes "96 and Jon
Christopher Jones '96, a son,
Bernard Christopher, on Dec. 5,
2001. She is an auditor (CPA) at
Deloitte & ‘Touche. He does med-
ical research at Immunex. ‘They
reside in Burian, Wash.

Christine Hemmert Tutor '96
and her husband, Michael, a son,
Caleb Michael, on Oct. 26, 2001.
‘They live in Blacksburg, Va.

Jennifer Miller Breen '97 and
Patrick J. Breen '97, a son, Patrick
Joseph, on Jan. 27. ‘They live in
Chicago.

OBITUARIES

James A. Wiggins Jr '24,
co-owner and general manager of
W.N. Watson Supply Co., died
Oct. 17, 2000, in Greenville, S.C.
He was a member of the Sigma
Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Rev. Dr. Bruce F.
Cannaway '25,

former minister and superinten-
dent for the Florida Conference of
the United Methodist Church,
died July 15, 2001, in Daytona
Beach, Fla. Gannaway established
the Miss Grace Gannaway
Scholarship in 1989, awarded to
upperclass students who intend to
become Christian ministers.

Charles F. Core '25,

retired real estate attorney, died
Feb. 13, 2000, in St. Petersburg,
Fla. He was a retired United States

Army major and a veteran of World
War IT.

James R. Thames Jr '26,
of Knoxville, ‘Tenn., died Sept. 26,
2000.

Robert Effron 27,

former owner and operator of an
Army-Navy store and a partner in
the NEFF Corp., died July 14,
2001, in Princeton, W.Va. He was a
member of Phi Epsilon Pi social
fraternity.

Ceorge T. Ellis '27,

retired senior vice president and
trust officer from First National
Exchange Bank of Roanoke, died
Feb. 15, 1999, in Roanoke. Ellis
was a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Leon A. Halstead ’27,
retired mechanical engineer, died
Aug. 28, 2001, in Woodside, N-Y.

Rabbi David H. Wice '27,

former senior rabbi of the
Philadelphia congregation, died
Feb. 16 in Philadelphia. Wice per-
formed 2,147 weddings during his
62-year tenure. He presided over

his congregation’s expansion into
the Philadelphia suburbs, includ-

 

fee MR ALUMNI

iN eG Re Be

I

 

ing establishment of a center in
Elkins Park that includes a school
as well as a site for services and
events. He guided the World
Union of Progressive Judaism
through change and growth and
served as its American director
from 1945-1955. He was a board
member of the Family Service
Association of America, belonged
to the Jewish Federation of
Greater Philadelphia and was pres-
ident of the Philadelphia Board of
Rabbis. While at W&L, he was a
member of Phi Epsilon Pi social
fraternity.

Rowland C. Layson 29,
died May 7, 2001 in Millersburg,
KY. He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

Harry H. Newberry ’29,
died April 12, 1997, in New York.
He was a member of Sigma Chi
social fraternity.

Virgil C. Jones '30,

retired journalist and author, died
Nov. 29, 1999, in Centreville, Va.
He was the author of nine books,
including Fight Hours Before
Richmond and The Crvil War at Sea.
Jones was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity.

Cilbert V.

Rosenberg '30, '32L,
retired labor law attorney, died
Feb. 7 in Silver Spring, Md. In
1941, he joined the National Labor
Relations Board and at his retire-
ment he was the chief of the
board’s representation section.
Rosenburg was a member of Phi
Epsilon Pi social fraternity.

Howell F. Snodgrass '30,
retired employee of Champion
Spark Plug Co., died March 4 in
Chattanooga, ‘Tenn. He was an
active member of the Multiple
Sclerosis Society. He was a mem-
ber of the football team and Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity.

John A. Collison '3!
died Aug. 5, 2001 in Larkspur,
Calif.

Dr. Frank E. Freeman ‘3!
died Nov. 13, 2001, in Philadel-
phia.

Henry N. McLane '3IL,

retired attorney, died Feb. 5, 2000,
in Inverness, Fla. He was a veteran
of World War II, a member of the
West Virginia Bar Association and a

member of the Sons of the
American Revolution.

Ralph K. Pulis ’3I,

died November 7, 2000, in Rome,
N.Y. He was a member of Zeta
Beta ‘Iau social fraternity.

Dr. William V. Rucker '3I,
retired general practitioner, died
Dec. 5, 2001 in Johnson City,
‘Tenn. Rucker practiced for 49
years in Bedford, Va., and deliv-
ered over 5,000 babies. He was a
major in the U.S. Army Medical
Corps during World War II. He was
a member of Beta ‘Theta Pi social
fraternity.

Atherton Seeley '3I,

retired partner with Gray & Rodgers
Advertising, died Feb. 15, 1997, in
Glenside, Penn. He was a member
of Sigma Nu social fraternity.

Charles W. Stilwell 31,
founder of the Home Ministry
Fellowship, died Dec. 18, 2001, in
Sierra Vista, Ariz.

William E. Vanderbilt '31
died June 15, 2000, in Melbourne,
Fla.

Lee B. Zeagler '3I
died May 10, 2000, in Catahoula,
La.

Robert W. Annin '32,

retired salesman for Westclox, died
June 6, 2001, in Bradbury, Calif.
He was a member of Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity.

Henri T. Fontaine '32

died Jan. 20, 2001, in Marietta,
Ohio. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Albert J. Rudes '32
died Feb. 22, 2001, in Palm Beach,
Fla.

Ed Wohlwender Jr '32,
retired farmer, died Dec. 4, 1999,
in Sumter, Ga. He was a member
of Sigma Nu social fraternity.

Samuel S. Woody Jr '32,
retired bank examiner for the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
died in September 1998. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Phi social fra-
ternity.

William M.
Burdette Jr '33, '34L,

retired attorney, died Aug. 10,
2001, in San Bernardino, Calif.

A LU MN I N E WwW S

 

Vess E. Irvine ’33
died Jan. 10, 2001,
Gloucester, Maine.

in New

John E. Lawhon '33,
retired attorney, died June 25,
1998, in Shreveport, La.

Stanley M. Rowland '’33
died in October 1997 in Saco,
Maine.

Stephen E. Skidmore '33
died April 28, 1999, in Nashville,
‘Tenn. He was a member of Alpha
Chi Ro social fraternity.

Ceorge L. Stout '33,

former accountant, died March 23,
1997, in Clarkston, Mich. He was a
member of Kappa Alpha social fra-
ternity.

John H. Cover '34,

retired owner of the John H. Cover
Insurance Agency, died Jan. 12,
2000, in Meyersdale, Pa. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha social
fraternity.

Robert S. Crenshaw Sr '34,
retired insurance agent, died Sept.
21, 2000, in Virginia Beach. He was
a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Harry F. Davis '34,

retired Social Security claims
authorizer, died June 26, 2000, in
Philadelphia. He was a member of
the American Legion and Sigma
Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Robert H. Madden '34,
retired marine engineer, died
March 14, 2001, in Falmouth,
Mass. He was a World War II vet-
eran and left the service as a lieu-
tenant commander.

Foster M. Palmer '34,
retired associate university librari-
an at Harvard, died Feb. 2 in
Watertown, Mass. In 1975, Palmer
established the McCrum Palmer
Book Fund at W&L.

William C. Thomas '34,
retired attorney, died Dec. 2 1998,
in Montgomery, Ala. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Arthur I. Ahl '35, ’36L,
retired attorney, died October 7,
1997, in Nesconset, NY.

Harold H. Huster '35,
former owner of Huster Brokerage

   
   
 
 
   
  
    
   
    
     
  
   
   
    
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 

Ltd., died Sept.
Susuiais N.J. He was

presid
the Cranford Historica] den
and a member of Delta Una i?
social fraternity. ’ ’

15, 2001, »

Dr. Duncan L. Kinnear: 5
professor at Virginia ‘Tech for 3
years, died June 6, 2001,
Blacksburg, Va. He is the auth
the first comprehensive history of D
Virginia Tech: The First Hundped Year

Henry L. Ravenhorst 35/0
retired professor of engineering a
W&L, died Feb. 15, in Lexington
He was a veteran of World War J}
and left the service with the re ak
of lieutenant colonel. He Was ;
licensed architect with a rivate
practice from 1959 until his death
He co-founded the Rockbridoe
Broadcasting Corp. (WREL), ane
was elected as an Honormp
Omicron Delta Kappa in 1976 any
was a member of Sigma Ph
Epsilon social fraternity. He servec
as a member of the Lexingtoy
Planning Commission and wa
instrumental in creating a sigr
ordinance for the city and for cre
ation of the downtown historic dis
trict. He served on 4
Architectural Review Board, a
Board of Zoning Appeals and :
Electoral Board.

Ceorge E. Short '35, %
former supervisor for E.L. du Pont
died Jan. 24 in Pompton Lakes
N.J. He was captain of the basebal
team, a member of Omicron De
Kappa and Pi Kappa Phi social fr ra
ternity. 4

Edward W.
Hiserman '36, '38L,
former attorney and partner witl
Hiserman & Hill, died March 41 }
Pineville, N.C. He was a Navy ct
eran of World War II. Hisermal
was the past president of th
Kanawha County Bar Associat ior
and a former member of the Wes
Virginia House of Delegates
While at W&L, he was a memD&
of Kappa Sigma social fraterm
Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi 1
Phi and the “13” Club.

William B. Hoofstitler ‘36 '
retired investment banker am
captain in the U.S. Air Corps, Gt
Jan. 19. The William B. Hoofstit!
Honor Scholarship was createe ®
his name. He was a member of th

Sigma Nu social fraternity.

Porter D. Berry '37;
retired vice president of inves

 

Wa.s hain gt-on

he d

Lene MMM oA LU SMeN 1

IM RAG UG aA 2Z 21

Piece &

 

  

ents with Dean Witter, died Jan.
Sin San Antonio. He was a mem-
or of Phi Kapp Sigma social fra-
i Delta Kappa, the

-. (micron
a { the outdoor track

rer
eam anc

football t
ream.

E. Graham '37, 'S9L,

- mer president of the G&W Real
il ‘o, and Sumter, S.C.
or died July 28, 2001, in
Columbia, S.C. He served with the
3th Division during World War II
and was extensively decorated for
his courage and bravery. Graham
was a member of Omicron Delta

Kappa.

Robert

Robert E. Tushingham '37,
retired manager of the Toronto
Globe @ Mail newspaper, died Dec.
5 2001, in Helena, Mont. He was a

) Tt ‘ .
member of Delta Upsilon social

fraternity.

Col. John D. Wiggins "37,
retired colonel in the U.S. Marine
Corps and editor for the Richmond
News-Leader, died October 12,
2000, in Prince Georges, Md.

Layton Cox '38,
of Lexington, Ky., died May 1,
2000.

Vincent B. Earley '38
died Feb. 2, 2001, in Tempe, Ariz.

Jacob C. Shively '38,
self-employed home builder and
developer, died Feb. 11 in Cham-
bersburg, Pa. He was a U.S. Army
Air Corps lieutenant colonel dur-
ing World War II and a recipient of
the Purple Heart. He was a mem-
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa and
Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Murray O. Both '39,

Owner and president of O.A. Both
Corp., died Dec. 1, 2000, in
Jacksonville, Fla. He was an avid
golfer and a member of Rotary
International and Alpha ‘Tau
Omega social fraternity,

Haskell T.
eickinson ‘39, '4 IL,
a? 4 ;
a President of McGeorge
Amntracti 7 r )
tng Co. Inc. and former
- of the Arkansas Louisiana
ras ie i
, ., died March 9 in Little
“ oe He was a veteran of
Tans ar Il, owner of Inter-City
a :.*. of Little Rock and for-
aie of Commercial]
: al Bank - Ini lati
ae and Union National
Wat Attle Rock. While at
. Dickinson Was ;
eons aS a member
SMa Chi social fraternity
yo

a ‘
Wiaisth a w gtr xz

ee

$e

Omicron Delta Kappa, “13” Club,
Phi Delta Phi, the White Friars
and the football team.

John R. LeBus '39,

retired tobacco and cattle farmer,
died Nov. 24, 2001, in Highlands,
N.C. He was a U.S. Navy veteran
of World War II and a member of
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Arnold R. Marcum '39L,
former president of A.R. Marcum
Inc. Realtors, died Sept. 25, 2000,
in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was a
member of Alpha ‘lau Omega
social fraternity.

Hon. George F.X.
McInerney '39, ’4IL,

retired New York State Supreme
Court justice, died Dec. 27, 2001,
in Bayport, N.Y. He served in the
U.S. Army Air Corps during World
War II and earned the rank of lieu-
tenant colonel. He was a member
of the Law Review, the Southern
Collegian and Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

Rodney L. Odell ’39,

former managing editor of the
Herald News, died Dec. 3, 2001, in
Ship Bottom, N.J. He reported on
three wars and was nominated for
the Pulitzer Prize six times. He
worked undercover for General
Patton’s ‘Third Army. He received
the William Silent Awards from the
Netherlands Parliament for his
coverage of the floods in Holland.
Odell was a member of the W&L
football team and Lambda Chi
Alpha social fraternity.

Harold C. Pollard Jr '39,
former owner and manager of the
Burlington Real Estate Co. Inc.,
died Jan. 17, 2001, in Burlington,
N.C. He was a member of Delta
‘Tau Delta social fraternity.

Fred D. Shellabarger '40,

professor emeritus of architecture
at the University of Oklahoma,
died March 7 in Norman, Okla. He
was a Navy veteran of World War
Il and a recipient of the Bronze
Star. Shellabarger was a member of

Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity
and Phi Eta Sigma.

William B. Morgan ’4l,
former broker with Paine Weber
and Dean Witter Reynolds, died
Jan. 24 in Memphis, ‘Tenn. He was
a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

 

James D. Taylor '4I,

former chairman and director of
the ‘Taylor-Ramsey Corp., died
Dec. 7, 2001, in Lynchburg, Va. He
was a veteran of World War II and
earned the Distinguished Flying
Cross. ‘Taylor served on the Boards
of James River Day School, Seven
Hills School, the Presbyterian
Home and the Academy of Music.
He was a member of Alpha ‘lau
Omega social fraternity.

Courtney Y. Wadlington '4I,
owner of a hardware and furniture
store, died Sept: 16; 1999, in
Cincinnati. He was a member of the
football team, the Monogram Club
and Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Edwin C. Cuttino '42,
founder of General Insurance
Agency Inc., died Dec. 29, 2001, in
Sumter, S.C. He was a Navy veter-
an of World War II, chairman of the
Independent Insurance Agents
and a member of the Cotillion and
Thalian clubs. While at W&L,
Cuttino was captain of the basket-
ball team and a member of Delta
‘Tau Delta social fraternity.

Charles P. Didier '42,

former president of Buckeye
Canning Co. and vice president of
Kuhlman Corp., died Feb. 1 in
Columbus, Ohio. Didier served in
the United State Marine Corps
during World War II on the Pacific
front, including Russell Islands
and Okinawa. He received two
Bronze Stars and the Purple Heart.
After his discharge in 1946, he
became a partner in Buckeye
Canning Co. He was called back to
active duty during the Korean
Police Action in July 1950. He
served on the board of the
American Cancer Society and was
a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, the football team,
the “13” Club and the White

Friars.

Ceorge S. Barrows '43,
retired bank clerk for the National
Bank of Commerce, died July 25,
1998, in Austin, “‘lexas. He was a
member of Phi Eta Sigma and the
Calyx staff.

Col. William C.

McCraw Jr 43,

former general manager of Real
Estate One Corp., died Nov. 12,
1999, in Honolulu. He was a mem-
ber of the University Glee Club,
The Ring-tum Phi and Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

William P. Peak '44

former rheumatologist and
founder of the Arthritis Clinic at
the University of Louisville, died
Feb. 6. He served as a second lieu-

tenant with the Marines in the
Pacific during World War IL.

Roscoe B. Smith Jr '44,
retired claims examiner for
American Centennial Insurance,
died July 8, 2000, in Wilmington,
Del. He was a member of the
Caylx staff and Sigma Nu social
fraternity.

Milton H. Smith 11’45, '50L,
retired general attorney, died May
28, 1997, in Mary Esther, Fla. He
was a member of Phi Alpha Delta
law fraternity and Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

Robert H. Cray '46,

former administrator support for
the USDA Forest Service, died
Dec. 2, 1998, in Milwaukee. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Cilbert H. Wilson '48, '49L,
retired attorney and partner from
the firm of Preston, Wilson and
Crandley, died Dec. 12, 2001, in
Virginia Beach. He was a member
of Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity,
the International Club and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Lt. Col. William W.
Craham 11149,

retired from the Air Force, died
March 14 in Lake City, Fla. He
completed 80 air combat missions
during his career during World War
II and the Korean War before tak-
ing command of the air station in
Barrow Point, Alaska. Specializing
in communications and airway
management, he had many subse-
quent appointments that included
a stint in Japan where he designed
an enlarged flight pattern for
‘Tokyo’s Hanada _ International
Airport. Upon retirement, he
farmed Christmas’ trees “in
Maryland. At W&L, he was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma social
fraternity.

Lt. Col. Robert

Foster Via 49,

retired from the Air Force, died
Jan. 27 in Mount Sterling, Ky. Via
spent 26 years as a pilot and a logis-
tics officer and served during
World War II, the Korean conflict
and the Vietnam War.

 

and

 

fee PA ALUMNI

Mitt G@ AZ

I

 

John S. Bell 50,

retired from the West Virginia
Department of ‘lransportation,
died Feb. 12 in Jacksonville, Fla.
Bell was a member of the First
Lutheran Church and Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity.

David L. Delarue '50,

former financial analyst, died Feb. 26
in San Francisco. He was a founder of
the Greater Palms Springs, California
Chapter of the Sons of the American
Revolution and a member of Sigma
Nu social fraternity and the
International Club.

Dr. Edwin M. Caines '50,

a retired college educator and
administrator, died March 18 in
Lexington. He was the son of the
late Francis Pendleton Gaines,
who served as Washington and
Lee president from 1930 to 1959.
He was a U.S. Marine Corps veter-
an of the Korean War where he
received the Purple Heart. He
taught at Converse College in
Spartanburg, S.C., before a 34-year
career as a history professor, dean
of students and a member of the
Foundation for Campus Ministries
at the University of Arizona. He
also is former vice president of stu-
dent affairs at the University of
Wyoming at Laramie He was a
member of Delta ‘Tau Delta social
fraternity and Pi Alpha Nu.

Col. John B. Sturges Jr ’50,
retired from the Navy, died May 30,
2000, in Santa Clara, Calif. He was a
member of 7/e Ring-tum Phi statt
and Sigma Nu social fraternity.

David C. C. Kerr '5l,

former attorney and partner with
MacFarlane, Ferguson et al., died
Feb. 23 in ‘lampa, Fla. He was a
Navy veteran of the Korean War.
He was former president of the
Greater ‘Tampa Chamber of
Commerce, the Hillsborough
County Bar Association and the
Southeastern Admiralty Law
Institute. He was a member of
Beta ‘Theta Pi social fraternity,
Omicron Delta Kappa, University
Glee Club, Pi Alpha Nu, “13”
Club and the White Friars.

Thomas F. Ball Jr '52,
former vice president sales manag-
er for Sylvia Motor Co. Inc., died
Sept. 6, 2001, in Burgess, Va. He
was a medical technician with the
Army during World War II. He was
a member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity.

Rev. John W. Dozier '’52L,
retired U.S. Navy chaplain and
Presbyterian minister, died Feb.

16 in Erwin, N.C. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Alpha Delta.

Donald H. Peterson '53,
former public relations writer, died
March 12 in Wilmette, Ill. He was
a member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity and the White Friars.

Leonard F. Winslow Jr '54,
retired real estate broker, died Oct.
31, 2001, in Charlottesville, Va. He
was past president of Virginia Land
Company and the National Capital
Chapter of Safari Club Inter-
national. He was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity, the soc-
cer team, the International Club
and the forensic team.

Richard J. Mauter '57,
former managing editor of The Long
Island Catholic, died June 30, 2001,
in Middle Village, N.Y. He was a
second lieutenant in the Army
Reserves and a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity.

Elliott N. Joffe '57,

vice president of Joffe Bros. Inc.,
died Feb. 21, 2000, in Baltimore. He
was a member of Graham-Lee-
Washington Literary Society,
Cotillion Club, Southern Collegian,
University Publications Board and
Phi Epsilon Pi social fraternity.

Edward J. Yurkov '57L,
died March 5, 1999, in West
Mifflin, Pa.

John M. Cosby '58,

died Feb. 1 in Hartwood, Va. He
was a veteran of the Korean War
and a member of Sigma Nu social
fraternity.

Richard W. Riddle '59, '6IL,
former Department of Revenue
director for the North Carolina
State government, died Dec. 24,
2001, in Raleigh, N.C. He was a
member of Pi Alpha Nu, the
Graham-Lee-Washington Literary
Society and Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Dr. Charles E. Toomey III '59,
former dentist, died Jan. 17 in
Annapolis, Md. He was a member
of the University Glee Club, the
Cotillion Club, the White Friars,
the Concert Guild and Phi Kappa
Sigma social fraternity.

A L U MM Nt N Ew S

 

Albert H. Counts Jr ’66L,
attorney and specialist in bank-
ruptcy law, died Dec. 11, 2001, in
McLean, Va. Counts was also a
well-known actor who worked
with several community theaters.

Nauman S. Scott Ill '67,
co-owner of Black ‘lop Records,
died Jan. 8 in Alexandria, La. He
was a member of Beta ‘Vheta Pi
social fraternity.

William H. Cerhauser II '73,
former vice president of Potter &
Mellen Inc., died Dec. 29, 1999, in
Cleveland. He was a member of
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

David H. Horne '74,

former non-profit director for
Hunters for the Hungry, died Feb.
14 in Big Island, Va.

David C. Lotts '74,

director of publications and electron-
ic communications for Virginia ‘Tech,
died March 8 in Blacksburg, Va.

Cary L. Williams '74,

died Sept. 25, 2001. He was a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity.

WASHINGTON AND

    
 
  
     
  
   
 
  
 
    
   
   
   
  

4

former attorney in Franklin Co
Va, died Dec. 19, 2001, in Fe
Va. Weibel was the first female atto.,
ney in Franklin County and val 7
past assistant commonwealth atone. a
ney in Roanoke.

Dorothy D. Weibe| '80L

Omar K. Vannoy 98, 3
of Manassas, Va, died Feb 2
While at W&L, Vannoy was ingpa,,
mental in establishing late pjehe
radio programming, and he wail
resident assistant for .
International House. From 1999 »,
2000, he worked as an assisp: nt
tour manager for Harry Connick Jp

Morrison Curtis ad
Bethea Jr. '04, d
of New Orleans, died March 25 in
New Orleans. He was a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity and
was co-captain of the golf team,

Thomas H. Moore ’'O4L, ~
of Glenshaw, Pa, died Jan. 23 ip
Lexington. He attended Washine-
ton and Jefferson University where
he was a member of Beta Theta Pj
social fraternity. 7

 

Armchairs and Rocket

‘The chairs are made of solid

    

hardrock maple in black |

finish with cherry arms. The five-color crest of the Universi
painted on the back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for birth
graduation, Christmas, anniversaries or weddings. All profi ty
sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory ot
Graham ’14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed
ing (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to: Washin
Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

[|] BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $295)

[J ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $295)
ORDERED BY
SHIP TO
STREET ADDRESS
CITY/STATE/ZIP
DAYTIME PHONE
METHOD OF PAYMENT (1 VISA C] MASTERCARD L) CHES
CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE -
NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD
The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WEL
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wal s ch 4 (mig ite &y aud

IM: ABE SA 4Z 4 leans EF

 

  
   
    
 
 
  

community—students, faculty and

 

 

Alumni Power

Campaign Leadership

Strong Team

Hatton C V. Smith ’73 and Charlie C.B. Tomm ’68, ’75L, members
a . .

of the University
fA Campaign for the Rising Generation, as the fund-raising
OI /

effort enters its fina
tewardship of the campaign, with ‘Tomm overseeing the

> Board of Trustees, have been named vice chairs

118 months. They will be responsible for day-

to-day S$
law constituency.
“The campaign builds a sense of purpose for the entire W&L

community—students, faculty and alumni—because we are all
giving back to the institution that has provided us with so much,”
explained Smith. “I am honored and excited to assume the role of
vice chair of the campaign. We have a great opportunity to achieve
our goals.”

Tomm agreed, “When John Farmer asked me to assume the
vice chairmanship for law position, there was no hesitancy on my
part. Washington and Lee has been a constant in my life since the
fall of 1964.”

John Farmer ’61, also a trustee, will continue to serve as chair
of the campaign. However, since he resides in London, the time
difference can make day-to-day operations—like phoning—diffi-

cult.

“John Farmer has
“The campaign builds a sense

invested his personal
of purpose for the entire W&L

credibility in this cam-

é paign,” said David R.
alumni—because we are al! giving

back to the institution that has
provided us with so much.”

—Hatton C.V. Smith '73

Long, vice president
for University rela-
tions. Farmer will act
as the “chief executive
officer,” while Smith
and ‘Tomm are like chief operating officers.” They will work with
a leadership team that includes the campaign cabinet, President
Thomas G. Burish and Peter Cronin °84, director of development.
While campaign momentum has been affected by extraordi-
nary ead €vents, an uncertain economy, the death of President
. W. Elrod and the search for a new president, all agree that the
MIVeTsity is poised to capture a new force of energy to push the
“ampaign over the top.

—— |

strategic initiatives we hope to accomplish through the
suecess of this cam
the nation’s pre-e
law School,”

paign are paramount to W&L remaining one of

minent liberal arts colleges and a Top 20 ranked
Said Farmer.
On the following

a, pages, the leadership team reflects on
£Tess to date and cha

llenges ahead.

 

 

 

 

JOHN R. FARMER GI
CHAIRMAN

“The weakened economy
and Sept. 11 cannot help
but change philanthropic
endeavors by donors in
some quarters, but this cam-
paign does not complete
until December 2003, and
we are optimistic that the
economic climate will
improve, giving donors con-
fidence in making serious
capital gifts in support of
The Rising Generation. With
$195 million of a $225

million goal already accomplished, the campaign 1s not only

on track but ahead of anticipated results.”

RK

D LEE

AY WASHINGTON AWN

“The campaign has renewed
energy now that the presiden-
tial search 1s over. President
[Thomas G.] Burish is new
to the W&L family. Hts
appearances around the
country will generate a lot of
interest. The president, as
always, will play a key role

as he ts the principal
spokesperson for the
University and will be our
best ambassador.”

 

CHARLIE TOMM ’68, ’75L
VICE CHAIR, LAW SCHOOL

SN

UNIVERSITY

 

HATTON C.V. SMITH ’73
VICE CHAIR

“This CAMPAIGN gIVeS US

a great opportunity to
inform our constituents and
many friends about what a
very unique place WEL
holds in the educational
world. During the past year;
acting President Larry
Boetsch has done a terrific
Job maintaining the overall
momentum, and Dean
David Partlett has accelerat-
ed the progress of the Law
School side of the campaign.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
    
   
     
  
   
   
 
 

 

J. FRANK SURFACE JR. ’60 JOSEPH H. DAVENPORT III ’69 WILLIAM H. FISHBACK JR, °S¢
UNIVERSITY RECTOR CHAIR, DEVELOPMENT AND EXTERNAL VICE CHAIR, DEVELOPMENT AN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE EXTERNAL RELATIONS CommitTT
“Despite the tragedies that our “The secret of raising “Sept. 11 has had an intere
nation and Unwersity faced dur- money from W&L alumni ing effect. Most of us have

ing the past year, the generosity of and friends 1s marrying become more focused on what is
Washington and Lee constituencies — acompelling need with an important to us as American
never wavered. Our annual gifts overriding interest.” Education stands at the top of

are greater than last year, and the list and Washington and
total gifts for the year will be high-

er than normal. We anticipate

Lee men and women feel that

way. | believe that we will me

ending this campaign on a very our goal and that we are all

high note, particularly in light of willing to work hard —
the enthusiasm and energy our new to that end.
president, Dr. Tom Burish, brings

to our development efforts.”

 

 

For additional campaign news, visit

http ://supporting wwlu.edu/

eter Cronin, Director of University Development. Peter Cronin °84, has been pro-
moted to lead the University’s development operations, currently in the midst of a
$225 million comprehensive “Campaign for the Rising Generation.” Formerly, he
was director of capital giving.

Cronin will oversee the fund-raising division’s day-to-day operations and its
completion of the campaign in December 2003. He is the University’s second-
highest development officer reporting directly to David R. Long, vice president

for University relations.

Cronin joined the University in 1991 as director of the annual fund, moving up

 

the ranks to associate director of development for reunions and regional programs in
1996. Cronin left the development office in 1999 to serve as a director of health system development at the University of
Virginia. W&L successfully brought him back as director of capital giving in late 2000 to oversee the public announcement and Tes
operations for the campaign.

Cronin also once served as director of development at Worcester Academy, an independent secondary school in Worcester, M

“We have an outstanding group of people in place to serve the University, and I am confident that together we will achieve ©
lective goals.”

 

 

  

WASHER G4 2H UF Pe NT Yee et te

The Campaign for the
Rising Generation, with a
goal of $225 mulhon,
will build upon Washington
and Lee’s many strengins
and ensure a bright future.
The University’s ongoing and
ambitious work of academic
and physical renewal will

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

sustain a unique and enrich-
ing educational experience for
students for years to come.

   

 
 

and Doremus Gyi

IP

  

:

School Expa 1S101 00 00 a Fh 4
ae

i
Trek
ray

Other renovations:

oer
peney

eter dend
Cr

im
i

  
 

nee ei

  

 
 
   
    

The Washington and Lee University NON PRory
OR

 

ALUMNI MAGAZINE —
y A @ 7

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 > al )
MIT Nog ;

- SO

www.wlu.edu NORE ’

a

Click for Caps an

It’s the most important day of the er
commencement. This year, 117 law students mil
402 undergraduates earned diplomas. ‘he guest
speaker for law commencement, on May 12, was
entertainer and lawyer Ben Stein. As per tradition,
ing President Laurent Boetsch delivered the
raduate commencement address on June 6.
ww.wlu.edu to see addi
eraphs and read about the even

detail. Other sites worth ,

Experience “Ripples of Pride”
Pride.wlu.edu

Chart the progress of new buildings
Newsoffice.wlu.edu/construction_updates/

Learn about new classroom technologies
itl.wlu.edu

2s

(oem,

‘
Enroll in Alumni College summer programs
alumnicollege.wlu.edu/

Contribute to the capital campaign
Support.wlu.edu

 

