The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine SUMMER 2001

 

—_—-

Jn Slhemoriam

January 2/1, 1940— July Adi eed

(Story on Inside Front Cover)

Jn Memoriam: PRESIDENT JOHN W. ELROD

EDITOR’S NOTE: This magazine was on press when we learned, with great sadness, of the death of President John W. E/rod.

We will celebrate his accomplishments for the University in a special presentation in the Fall issue. The staff extends its deepest

sympathy to Dr: Mimi Milner Elrod, his wife and confidante of 37 years, and his sons, Adam and Joshua, and family.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY’S 22ND PRESIDENT,
John W. Elrod, who battled cancer while leading the most com-
prehensive faculty and facility growth period in the school’s his-
tory, died July 27, in Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington.

Elrod, 61, was diagnosed with kidney cancer more than
two years ago, fighting the disease with the dignity, faith and
honor that marked his leadership.

]. Frank Surface ’60, rector of the Board of ‘Trustees said, “At
a University whose champions have included such American
giants as George Washington and Robert E. Lee, John Elrod
carved out his own distinguished place in history. Not only
has he recruited some of the nation’s finest scholars, but he
also has set the University on a strategic path that will reflect
his vision for several generations of students.”

Dean of the College and Vice President for Academic
Affairs Laurent Boetsch ’69 assumed the respon-
sibilities of the presidency.

Elrod battled his disease with aggressive and, later,
experimental treatments at the University of Virginia
Medical Center and the MD Anderson Cancer Center
in Houston, ‘Texas.

“Among John’s many outstanding traits was his ability
to help faculty and students to flourish to the best of their
abilities,” said senior faculty member and long-time
friend Professor Harlan Beckley. “We all are better people
as a result of John’s professional guidance
and friendship.”

“We will miss him greatly,” said U.S.
Sen. John Warner °49, R-Va. “He earned
his rightful place among W&L’s great
presidents, having shown the courage of
Lee as he battled illness by manning his
post at the University and having his writ-
ings and letters match the eloquence of
Gaines.” (Francis Pendleton Gaines was
president from 1930-1959.)

Students’ achievements were a great

source of pride for Elrod, who opened his

 

LAURENT BOETSCH ’69 HAS
ASSUMED THE RESPONSIBILITIES
OF THE PRESIDENCY.

home each week to undergraduates for family-style dinners
and lively debates. Student Government President Robert
Naftel (02 commented, “President Elrod was never too
busy to counsel students in our goals individually and in
our work at the University. He has made a tremendous mark
on my life, and I will miss his guidance.”

Russ Chambliss ’74, newly elected president of the
Alumni Association, added, “John always impressed me
with his willingness to listen to all points of view and to
bring people together to work toward a common goal. He
personified W&Ls ideal of civility.”

Elrod was born on Jan. 21, 1940, and grew up in Griffin,
Ga. He earned a B.A. in English from Presbyterian College
in Clinton, S.C., and later his master’s and doctorate in
philosophy of religion at Columbia University. He taught
philosophy and religion at Union Theological Seminary in
New York and later chaired the philosophy department at
lowa State University in Ames. He joined W&L as aca-
demic vice president and dean of the college in 1984 and

assumed the presidency on July 1, 1995.

Jransition

Boetsch, 53, worked closely with Elrod since serving as
his associate dean from 1989 to 1992. Following Elrod’s
appointment as president, Boetsch was named
to succeed him as dean of the college and
vice president for academic affairs in 1996.

“The W&L community is much richer
for having known John Elrod. As we strive
to fulfill his vision for the University we will
follow his example of courage and strength
of character,” Boetsch pledged.

Rector Surface expressed the Board’s
utmost confidence in Boetsch’s leadership
and experience in assuming the position
and announced that a national presidential

search will begin soon.

 

   

GENTLEMAN CALLER By Deborah Marquardt

When Farris Hotchkiss ’58 asks for a gift for Washington and Lee, hundreds of people have learned it’s hard to say no.

SENIOR ACHIEVEMENTS By Lori Stevens

Bobbi Jo Alexis heads to law school, and Dan Birdwhistell heads to Oxford.

AU REVOIR, PROFESSORS By Wendy Lovell ’go

‘This year we bid farewell to 11 men, the largest “class” of retirees ever.

SKI WRITING By Matt Jennings °93

W&L grads on FedEx legal team give wings to transportation law.

EW Atumni President's EW The Colonnade [ey Cenerals’ Report
Journal ‘Teaching and technology, new alcohol Brendan Harrington ’01 is the
Alumni office family tree. policy, Alumni College. “Voice of the Generals.”

EW Letters Ty war Law Eq Alumni News

Success stories. Public interest lawyering. Reunion highlights, parents

blins bvesnsscuebsasahtnsawwebe loi! acct. diehasn cen Gl caaaeee eatin. . «; and grads, upcoming events.
SR I le aaa ee aa
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGFON, VA 24450

u-oVv SR rao FOG RAP OR BY PATRICK H INL E Y °73

AUG 22 2001

VOLUME 76
SUMMER

NUMBER 2
2001

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White
and External Relations
Deborah Marquardt

Contributing Editor

Director of Communications

University Editor
Louise Uffelman
Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Matt Jennings ‘93, Beth Matter, Wendy
Lovell ‘90, Lori Stevens
Mary Woodson
Bart Morris, Morris Design
Patrick Hinely ‘73 | University Photographer

Contributors
Designer

Art Director

Published by Washington and Lee Untversity,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. "60, Rector
John W. Elrod. President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop 111 °68 (Flourtown, Pa.)
William P. Boardman °63, 691. (Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

Joseph H. Davenport I11°69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller I. Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer 61 (London, England)

William H. Fishback Jr. °56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom °’73 (Columbia, S.C.)

William R. Goodell 80L. (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell I1l ’69, °75L (Richmond)

William B. Hill Jr.’74,°77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, 621. (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr. "62 (Hillsborough, Calif.)
John Klinedinst 71, °78L. (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall 64, 691. (Houston)

Michael H. Monier ’62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith ’73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ.)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Suzanne F. Thomas (Alexandria, Va.)

Matthew G. Thompson 64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm '68,°75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White °77 (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-463-8400

Publications Office 540-463-8956
Admissions Office 540-463-8710

Alumni Office 540-463-8404

Alumni Office F--Mail alumni@wlu.edu
Career Services 540-463-8595
Development Office 540-463-8410

News Office 540-463-8460

Sports Information Office 540-463-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-463-8998
WEL Home Page wwwwlu.edu

The best part of my job
was conversations with
alumni, faculty and
staff, which reinforced
my belief that WGL's
people and history

are her treasure.

W a

t has been my privilege to serve you this
year. The best part of my job was conversations with alumni, faculty and staff,
which reinforced my belief that W&Ls people and history are her treasure.
One outstanding example is the Alumni Office. Bill Washburn’s death in
February caused me to reflect upon the office’s history and its “family tree.”

Bill Washburn °40 became the second alumni director in 1958, building

the number of chapters from several dozen to almost 70. His knowledge of

FAMILY TREES

 

alumni affairs often was called “encyclopedic.” I remember him fondly from
my student days, as he coached the infant women’s tennis team to an 18-1
season in 1988. His family legacy, two sons and two grandsons who are W&L
graduates, speaks volumes about this
University.

W&Ls first alumni director, Henry K.
“Cy” Young °17, still is known as one of the
greatest University athletes, lettering in 16
varsity sports. He was among the first group
to be inducted into W&L’s Athletic Hall of
Fame. Cy created the Alumni Fund, the pre-
cursor of today’s all-important Annual Fund.
Cy’s son, Neely °43, and his grandson, Neely

II °66, are part of the W&L family, as are his

nf

JENNIFER BRAY STRATTON
PRESIDENT,

great-grandsons, Josh 99 and Carter ’03.
Bill’s successor was the inimitable and
W&L ALUMNI
gregarious Dick Sessoms. Dick, now a devel-
opment staff member, is a shining example of someone who did not attend
W&L but understands it and is committed to it. Dick regularly keeps in
touch with more alumni than a decade’s worth of
\} reunion chairs combined. His father-in-law, Fran
Drake, is a retired W&L French professor; Dick’s

daughter, Sarah, married Bruin Richardson °86.

Jim Farrar °76 followed Dick. I served on the

‘aaa

en

Alumni Board during Jim’s tenure, and I can atttest to
the way he fostered the alumni voice in campus
affairs. Jim’s father, Jim Farrar ’49, served as dean of
admissions, and Jim’s brother, Scott ’76, just attended
his 25th reunion. It is fitting that as Farris Hotchkiss ’58 retires as assistant to the
president (see page 14), someone with Jim’s sensibilities and love for W&L
steps into that post.

As I look to the future, I could not be more confident. Rob Mish III °76
succeeded Jim Farrar last summer and has just completed an exemplary first
year. He is the son of Bob Mish Jr. 46. He helps many on campus look at
issues through alumni eyes.

Cy and Bill, we honor your memory. Dick and Jim, we salute your con-
tinued good work in positions of utmost importance to the University. Rob,
we charge you as the keeper of the treasure. Thanks to all for keeping us in
touch with our best instincts about and our fondest memories of W&L.

Russ Chambliss ’74, your new Alumni Association president, brings
warmth, a strong commitment and a wonderful sense of humor to the job. We

are fortunate to have him at the helm in the coming year. 4

» 2.4.8: 4-t: 6a and Lee PE Atumni

M A \ A Zz

ASSOCIATION

 

eee

ALUMNI PRESIODENT’S JIouRNAL

' -

o>
Cc
S
_
°
re
”
oD
é
=
o
>
2
g
°
<=
a

= 3°

 

[| NS

 

 

Out of the Pai #!/

I was happy © read about the

success of the baseball team. It’s
been a long time coming.

My days go back to when we

played our games on top of a

mountain, complete with very

interesting wind
uring my four years

and weather

patterns. D :
(1963-67), we hardly met with
the kind of success this article
related. We won 11 games and, if
I recall correctly, nine of those
were won by one pitcher. As a
matter of fact, this guy pitched an
11-inning no-hitter, which he
won 2 to 1. Upon further reflec-
tion, that guy was me.

—Pete Heumann 67

Lutherville, Md.

Tell the Truth

With reference to the letter from
Matthew C. Guilfoyle ’83L that
appeared in the spring issue, I
was wondering if you could pro-
vide me with additional details or
links regarding the deaths of stu-
dents Adam Burchett and Kristin
Shelton, and any efforts to deal
with the problem of drinking and
driving.

Like Mr. Guilfoyle, I was very
disappointed that the editors of
the magazine seemed to make a
concerted effort to withhold as
many of the “gritty details” as
they possibly could. | know you
are trying to use the magazine to
give us a warm and fuzzy feeling
about the campus in order to

Write to WG6L

By Mail: University Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: Magazinc@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-463-8024

Ad letters should be Signed

and include the
author’
5 name, address and daytime phone num-

= Letters selected Sor publication may be edited
length » Content and style. Sioned articles

the Mews Of their authors me
those of the editorial boar

and not necessarily
d or the Uni ersily.

match our time-warped memo-
ries of the place, but I want to
receive all significant informa-
tion—the good, the bad and the
ugly—so that I can be better
informed about a place that
remains important to me.
—Ken Nankin ’85
Washington

(E-ditor’s Note: See the new policy on
alcohol, the result of months of study
by faculty, students, alumni and staff,
on page 8.)

Pointing the Way

On behalf of my family and (I’m
sure) the other 160 alumni fami-
lies in attendance, I’m writing to
thank all those involved in the
“Through the Admissions
Maze” program (June 22) for
helping to educate us to the real-
ities of the admission process for
highly selective colleges in this
new millennium. While the pro-
gram was not W&L-specific, its
quality made a strong statement
for W&L. Many thanks to all
involved for a most enjoyable
and informative weekend.
—Robert M. Gill’71
Christiansburg, Va.

War and Peace

Sunlight turns the bronzed let-
ters to almost gold as I read the
names of two college classmates
who were killed in Vietnam on a
plaque near Lee Chapel. Jim
Monroe °66 received the Con-
gressional Medal of Honor. Jack
Kelly is listed among the 18 grad-
uates who died so far away in a
conflict few of us understood.
Many of us at our class
reunions in May had gone to war,
and some of us still carry wounds
of body or soul from that experi-
ence. It does not seem like 35

 

be awarded the Bronze Star and
to lose most of my eyesight and
much of my contentment.

What impresses me each time
I return to Lexington is the
enduring influence of Robert E.
Lee. I know of no other great sol-
dier, no other leader of men in
battle who went from war’s dark
heart so directly to securing last-
ing peace.

‘The fact that Lee—or any-
one—could embrace the future
and let go the hold of past events
after so much loss of friend and
fortune remains astonishing to
me. We now, the veterans of the
class of 1966, need that fine
example so that we can bring to
the light our shadows of the hor-
rific chaos of Vietnam.

—Bruce Rider ’66

Grapevine, Texas

Laurels to Lewis

‘The article on the Rev. James
Lewis °58, a St. Paul’s alumnus
(1954), in your spring issue is
excellent. How well I know,
when I researched his bio [upon
his selection] as our Outstanding
Alumnus 2001.

Perhaps your writer was not
aware that Jim received a citation
in October 2000 and an honorary
degree in divinity from the
‘Theological Seminary.

—George O'Connell

St. Paul’s School
Brooklandville, Md.

Commendations

Not since the days of Romulus
Weatherman and Bob Keefe *68
have I seen the A/umni Magazine
looking as handsome and infor-
mative as in its current mode.
You and your associates are to be
commended in every respect. 4
—Don Hillman °46

 

 

years since I traded books for Scarsdale, N.Y.
arms, leaving wife and baby,
while I went to Southeast Asia to

and Lee Pm Atumni A GO A.Zo1, M1

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

aSS—

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

Russell W. Chambliss °74, President (Birmingham, Ala.)

William P. Wallace Jr. ’74,°77L, Vice President
(Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish 111 °76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman "91 (Morristown, NJ.)
Robert M. Balentine Jr.’79 (Atlanta)

Amy C. Balfour ’89, °93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
William M. Ball 111 "69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Barry O. Barlow ’77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow 87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Roger G. Bowers 941. (Richmond)

James R. Brooks ’77 (Houston)

John M. Cleghorn '84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

J. Hagood Ellison Jr. ’72 (Columbia, 8.C.)

John M. Falk '86, ‘gol. (Washington)

Peter C. Keefe ’’78 (Washington)

B. Christopher Lee ’71 (Philadelphia)

Devon A. McAllister "92 (San Francisco)

David S. Makepeace ’88 (Raleigh, N.C.)

Theodore B. Martin Jr: 80 (Chicago)

The Hon. William Ray Price Jr. ’78 (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Hugh L.. Robinson 11 '80 (Lutherville, Md.)

Bradley B. Root ’88 (Pittsburgh)

William W. Schaefer ’60 (Memphis, Tenn.)

William M. Toles ’92, °95L (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus '83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Lizanne Thomas "821, President (Atlanta)

James J. Kelley 11°74, Vice President (Washington)

David L. Baird Jr.’71L, Immediate Past President
(Houston)

Law Council

Loranne Ausley QoL. (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T; Balfour 63, '651L. (Richmond)

Joseph W. Brown "68L (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, ’79L. (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin "90, °931L. (Louisville, Ky.)
E:. Townes Duncan 78L (Nashville, Tenn.)
David P. Falck ’78L (New York City)

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L (New York City)

James J. Kelley 11°74. (Washington)

The Hon. Michael L. Kraneer '831. (Harrisburg, Pa.)
Jessine A, Monaghan ’79L. (Washington)

James E:. Nicholson ’77L. (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E:. Payne 63, 671. (Richmond)
C. Edward Russell Jr. 67L (Norfolk)

Caroline W. Sink ’82L (Charlotte)

Robert 1. Stolsman '86L. (Providence, RL.)
David G. Weaver ’81L. (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf SoL. (Washington)

Richard T: (Rick) Woulfe ’76L. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)
Laura Anderson Wright 941. (College Park, Md.)
Anne R. Yuengert 891. (Birmingham, Ala.)

on. oe COLONNADE

Five Washington and Lee professors took a courageous plunge into
the unknown for a walk in cyberspace as part of a Mellon ‘Teaching
Portfolio Pilot Project. ‘The project is the brainchild of instructional
technology specialist John Blackburn, who was granted $50,000 over
two years from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. ‘The experiment
uses technology to open up the teaching process.

The idea was taken from graduate work done by Blackburn at
the University of Virginia.
“We did our graduate work
in the form of Web pages.
‘The essential quality of the
work was that it was public.
‘The best teaching practices
are not shared as well as they
could be,” asserted Black-
burn. “When instructors and
students share a common
Web space, it provides a
good portrait of a course.”

‘lo facilitate the
exchange of pedagogical
tools and open teaching prac-
tices to peer review, the five
fellows agreed to create a
course portfolio last winter
term. ‘These portfolios cov-
ered pre-course planning,
lecture notes and readings,
student coursework and
evaluations and a final assessment of the outcome, all publicly avail-
able on the Web.

For Math 222, linear algebra, Greg Dresden had his students
solve a group problem using digital video. Each student was given a

clue to a piece of the problem; they videotaped themselves solving

PR iM SE TIME

‘Technology: ‘Tool or Method? That was the question
explored by educators from across the continent via satellite
teleconference in April. Richard Kuettner, director of W&L's
‘Tucker Multimedia Center, proposed and organized the con-
ference, financed by a grant from the Culpepper Foundation.

The discussion by 13 experts—a “Baker’s Dozen”—
attempted to evaluate technology use in teaching and deter-
mine ways in which the computer can be used to enhance the
classroom experience for both teachers and students.

“It had come to the point where it was necessary to put
thoughts together for the benefit of technology and the tech-

nology user,” said Kuettner. ‘The traditional way to commu-

SATELLITES AND INTERNET GIVE TEACHING A NEW SPIN.

 

their part. In English 105, composition and introductien to litera-
ture, Marc Conner focused on the process of writing, having stu-
dents provide peer-to-peer critiques as they produced a major essay,
“It was very fruitful,” said Conner. “The students created really
impressive work, using color, image and sound as they learned to
exploit the new media, and I got a lot of feedback throughout the
term rather than just at the end.

‘The process brought the fae-
ulty together as well. “We
tend to get isolated in our
disciplines. ‘There is an ele-
ment of the Web that can
bring people together,” said
Blackburn. Other _ partici-
pants were Elizabeth Knapp,
assistant professor of geology,
‘Ted DeLaney, assistant pro-
fessor of history, and Alan
McRae, assistant professor of
math.

Blackburn specifically
chose faculty from a range of
disciplines, including math,
science and the humanities.
“I was looking for a diversity
of courses taught by junior
faculty members, who could
use the grant and the

enhanced support that was
offered. I have nothing but respect and gratitude for these
untenured faculty members who were unafraid to step forward and
have everything, including course evaluations, available for public
view.” ‘To see a portrait of a course yourself, you can visit the site at

miley.wlu.edu/portfolios. —Lori Stevens

nicate is to deliver a paper at a conference. ‘That limits the
audience. So he chose to structure the discussion around
satellite and Web technologies. ‘The teleconference was
uplinked across the Northern Hemisphere from Duke
University facilities; a rebroadcast was handled by the
Satellite Communications for Learning. ‘The teleconference
also was broadcast twice over the World Wide Web.
“Dialogue needs to be ongoing,” said Kuettner.

As a result of positive viewer response and requests, the
Baker’s Dozen will get together every two years. In the
meantime, interested parties can become part of the discus-

sion by going to the Web site toolormethod.wlu.edu

 

 

 

THE COLONNAOD QE

 

 

eam Us Up, Scotty. Wireless Internet and networking capabil-
ities are becoming a reality at Washington and Lee. Led by pro-
ject leader Dirk van Assendelft, the staff of University comput-
ing are working to provide areas of the campus not hardwired to
the W&L network with direct, high-speed access in place of slow-
er dial-up access.
A strong motivation for this project, noted John Stuckey,
director of University computing, was to bring high-speed access to
the fraternities in the Red Square and Davidson Park areas. Because
these buildings are separated from the main campus by property not
belonging to the University, wired access has not been an option, and the

upants of these buildings have been forced to dial in to the network via modem.

oce

Recent advancements in wireless technology now make it possible for a signal of sufficient
data capacity to reach these areas. A concentrated, high-speed signal will be transmitted from a
location on the main campus to the Davidson Park area. ‘Then, using a combination of point-to-
point transmission and fiber optic cable, the main signal will be sent to the different buildings.
lsers will be able to use network servers, e-mail accounts and the Internet at speeds equal to
the wired areas of campus.

Access points will be installed throughout the undergraduate and Law School campuses,
enabling students to work from almost anywhere, reducing overcrowding in the computing labs
and increasing the potential for collaborative learning.

Plans are to have the fraternities up and running with wireless service by the start of fall

semester.
Mertwether Lewis: The End of the Trail

The approach of the bicentennial of the expedition into the American Northwest by Meriwether
Lewis and William Clark has resurrected the question of Lewis’ relationship to Washington
Academy.

‘The very famous “voyage of discovery”
was inspired by President ‘Thomas Jefferson’s
fascination with biology and ethnology and his
determination to secure an outlet on the Pacific
for American commerce, and justified by his
purchase of the Louisiana Territory from France.
‘This trek, from the mouth of the Missouri River
to the Pacific Ocean, resulted in the discovery of
the Northwest Passage. It covered thousands of
miles, lasted roughly from 1804-1806 and made
young Lewis a national hero.

A tale that long ago became part of W&L
lore insists that Lewis attended Washington
Academy. Unfi tunately, only a single piece of evidence suggests this is true. An A/wmni Directory,
published in 1888, includes him in an alphabetical listing of men who attended the Academy in the
18th century. “Meriwether Lewis, Albemarle Co., private secretary of President Jefferson: explor-
er Rocky Mountains with Clark: Governor Louisiana ‘lerritory: died 1809.”

Some years ago, hoping to verify the entry, Vaughan Stanley, special collections librarian, con-
ducted an exhaustive search in the records of the University and turned up nothing at all.
Biographies of Lewis in the library note only that he studied under a series of preacher-school mas-
‘ers, and one adds that he wanted to attend a “ceminary” (sic) in Williamsburg,

Given the paucity of the evidence available to them, alumni of W&L cannot be certain that
the famous explorer was, indeed, an early member of their association.

—Holt Merchant, professor of history

 

Credit Worthy

British Fellow

Suzanne Keen, associate professor of English,
was named a fellow in the British Council's
27th Cambridge Seminar on ‘The Contem-
porary Writer in the United Kingdom. She is
ong of 60 scholars who came from nearly 40
countries to participate in discussions about lit-
erary issues with distinguished writers, such as
Doris Lessing and David Lodge.

‘The seminar permits literature specialists
from around the world, including writers,
teachers, publishers, translators and _ literary
journalists, to immerse themselves in the
issues surrounding contemporary British writ-
ing.

Keen, who has been at W&L since 1995,
specializes in the English novel. Her next
book, Romances of the Archive in Contemporary

Bnitish Fiction, is Aue in spring of 2002.

Nonfiction Prize

Michael Burleigh, the William R. Kenan Jr.
Professor of History at W&L, received the
£30,000 Samuel Johnson prize for the best
nonfiction book of the year. Noted by many
reviewers around the world as a new modern
classic, The Third Reich: A New History,
Burleigh’s fifth book, took five years to write.
It examines Nazi Germany and its abandon-
ment of liberal democracy within a

European context.

Russian Research

‘Tim Koss, a senior who double majored in
economics and Russian studies, received an
attractive job offer from ‘Thomson Financial
in New York City, but he chose instead to
accept a 12-month Young Leaders Fellow-
ship from the International Research and
Exchanges Board (IREX) for post-graduate
study in Russia. He is the first W&L student
ever to have received a grant from IREX,
which is the principal agency for funding
American research in Russia. Koss plans to
study environmental issues, work as an
intern and complete a community service

project during his stay.

 

Bookshelf
WSR

reererure

FAIR 4
EFECTIVE

REPRESENTATION?

DEBATING
ELEC TORAI
REFORY
WONORITY RIGHTS

 

Who's Counting?

Fair and Effective Representation?
Debating Electoral Reform and Minority
Rights comes right on the heels of the
recent presidential debacle. ‘The ques-
tion Mark Rush, associate professor of
politics, and his co-author Richard
Engstrom examine is not whether
major electoral reform is needed, but
how much and what kind. Rowman’s

Littlefield Publishing, $16.95

 

Shutterbugs

National Geographic Photography Guide
Jor Kids by Neil Johnson ’76 teaches the
ABCs of taking pictures, with lessons
on cameras, film, shutter speed, light
and shadow and subjects. Johnson par-
ticipated in the A/umni Magazine’s “Day
in the Life of Washington and Lee”
project in 1999. National Geographic
Society, $18.95

aAves Na) rp Wiehe

NVUa'¢s

 

Last book

A Fly Fisherman’s Blue Ridge by

Christopher Camuto, assistant professor

1 ek of Sia fe a7 ae me

CAPTAIN’S LOG
IN SEARCH OF JAPAN’S

TREASURE

W&L TRAVELERS ON THE STEPS OF THE MIHO MUSEUM.

 

W&L alumni college abroad travelers set out May 6-I7 to discover the “Ireasures and

‘Traditions of Japan,” a nearly impossible feat in 10 short days but an experience rich in sights,

sounds and memories. One destination was the Miho Museum, designed by I. M. Pei, high in

the mountains of Shiga Prefecture southeast of Kyoto.
Along the way, our guide Kimiko explained in her
melodic voice many features of life in her country.
“Japan,” she explained, “is almost the size of California in
total land. But Japan is also a mountainous country. No one
lives on the mountains because of the mudslides caused
by heavy rains. We have nearly 60 inches of rain per year.
People live only on the flat land. So really Japan is about
the size of Connecticut, with a population of 120 million.”
By now Kimiko understood that we enjoyed learning
about Japanese home life. She spoke of the plight of
housewives. “Japanese woman knows that when Japanese
husband comes home from the office, he want only three
things: dinner, bath and bed. Women take care of hus-
bands, but they have lives outside the home as well, like
P’TA from raising the children. But husbands know only
the workplace. When husband retires he has nothing to do,
so he wants to follow the wife around all day. ‘That's why
he is often called ‘wet fallen leaf.’” We laughed with her.
Along the way, we passed through a lovely Japanese
countryside quilted with rice paddies glistening in the
morning sunlight and luminous fields of spring wheat. As
we climbed higher into the mountains, we wound through

narrowing ravines of terraced cultivation, the flooded rice

UPCOMING
TRAVEL ABR ;

Sept. I-13:
‘The Wonders of Alaska

Sept. 11-25:

‘The Journey of Odysseus
Oct. 3-II:

‘The Romance of ‘Tuscany
Oct. 10-18:

‘The Romance of ‘Tuscany
Oct. 17-25:

‘The Romance of ‘Tuscany

Oct. 24-Nov. I:

‘The Romance of ‘Tuscany
Dec. 21-27:
Christmas in Quebec
Feb. 21-March 8, 2002:
Argentina, Chile and Patagonia
April 24-May 2, 2002:
The Romance of ‘Tuscany
May 19-31, 2002:
Springtime on the Danube

  
  

 

 

 

 

ysaddies reflecting rhe inverted image of moun-
i. above and behind them. Soon we entered
- forest of tall, straight cedars—“for the con-
struction,» Kimiko explained. “We used to have
men to trim the lowe! branches. Very dangerous.

Now we have rob cs.” Near the Miho Museum,

the road tightens considerably. We began to

encounter other vehicles making their careful

wav down the winding mountain road.

Invariably, both vehicles would stop, with the

THE COLONNAOD E

smaller of the two backing up quickly to a con-
venient passing place. Our driver, with his gig-
gling attendant standing by, thus practiced
Yuzuriaimasho, the social ethic of “giving way”
that is so distinctively Japanese. Road rage does
not seem to exist here, nor do the Japanese ever
seem to fall into that anonymous indifference
that so characterizes Americans behind the
wheel.

—Rob Fure, director of special programs

Alumni College—The Refracted Eye: A Workshop in Photography

Shutterbugs invade the campus.

“Shoot first, ask questions later,” is the advice Patrick Hinley ’73, University photographer,

gave to participants of the Alumni College workshop in photography. “If you stop to analyze how

PHOTO BY STEVE DESJARDINS.

ASSOCIATE

the photo looks, you'll lose the
moment.” ‘The photography ses-
sion, June 17-23, was the first of
five summer school sessions,
which ended July 21.

Moving through photogra-
phy fundamentals and camera
care, the group received helpful
instruction on digital technolo-
gies, as well as wildlife, people
and travel photography. Evenings
were devoted to slide presenta-
tions by Larry Stene, professor of
art, videos on legendary shooters
like Richard Avedon and Dianne

PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AND PHOTOGRAPHY

WORKSHOP PARTICIPANT.

 

Arbus, and exhibits of partici-
pants’ photos from home. Steve

Morello, wildlife photographer, and Mario Corvetto, a Peruvian photojournalist, also lectured.

In between, group members took to the streets of Lexington, scouted the brick sidewalks of
the Colonnade, descended the banks of the Maury and

climbed the hills of Skylark to practice their newly acquired

knowledge.

Construction workers on campus were a favorite subject,
and they seemed happy to take a break from work to pose for
the camera. Other photographers looked at W&Ls familiar
tableau with a new appreciation for shape, form and line. “I’m
enjoying the time to just look around,” said Bob Stroud °56,

S8L as he appraised a white column through his viewfinder.

“I love

beauty of the campus is wonderful.”

UPCOMING—OcrT. 12-13: LAW & LITERATURE:
FAULKNER’S INTRUDER IN THE DUST

coming back to W&L, and having time to enjoy the

sp (AUACA MINTS ~

 

of English, has returned to print in
paperback. ‘The book takes readers
through a year of fly fishing in
mountain streams from Pennsylva-
nia to Georgia. University of Georgia

Press, $16.95

OT Tem Ts

 

Happy Trails

Outing Club Guidebook is a must-have
for summer bike rides, hikes, climbs
and canoe trips around Lexington.
Hunters and fishermen will find it
indispensable, too. Chapters are
written by professors and alumni,
complete with maps. Washington

and Lee University, $15

 

Lost Virginia

Lost Virginia: Vanished Architecture of
the Old Dominion accompanied an
exhibition at the Virginia Historical
Society in Richmond, which closed
in late May. The book attempts to
document and reconstruct the
appearance of Virginia architecture
in earlier times, buildings which
have been demolished or burned.
William Rasmussen °68, curator of
Art for the Society, is a co-author,
and Pam Simpson, professor of art
history, is a contributor. Howell

Press, $37.50

 

 

 

 

THE COLON NAOD E

 

 

ditor’s Note: With an urgency heightened by

the deaths of Adam Burchett ‘02 and

Kristin Shelton °04 in an alcohol-related

automobile crash last October, President John

W. Elrod created an Alcohol Task Force. Its

task was to build on earlier efforts by the

Board of Trustees and to recommend ways to augment student
personal responsibility regarding alcohol abuse and drug use in
a manner consistent with the honor; integrity and crvility abun-
dant at WEL. The Task Force, made up of and reflecting input
ee, Ss. kk on we from the broad WEL community, including alumni, put forth
these initiatives that demonstrate the Untwersity’s commitment to

Jinding ways to create a healthier and safer environment.
| | N | IVERS Y —THomas Wurre, Direcror of COMMUNICATIONS,
“Task Force PARTICIPANT

Discipline: Individual Violations

IN ITIATIVE S > ‘The Student Judicial Council (SJC) shall enforce a

three-strike system that outlines specific conse-

quences for violations of University alcohol/drug poli-

j) | \ | cies by individuals.

Conviction of an alcohol- or drug-related violation of
the law shall be a strike. ‘The following confirmed
UB STAN CH violations of the University alcohol/drug policies and
standards will constitute a strike, absent extenuating

circumstances.

AB | | SE e A violation of University residential alcohol or
drug policies.

¢ Misconduct that violates other University alco-

hol/drug policies.
e Drunkenness, when it results in behavior that

endangers self or others.

Independent of the three-strike system, the SJC may sus-
pend or dismiss a student found to have driven a motor
vehicle under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs in
the City of Lexington or Rockbridge County.

Sanctions as follows:

First Strike: Mandatory education and counseling,
plus moderate sanction. Parents notified upon a finding of
violation.

Second Strike (within 12 months of the first strike):
Mandatory education and counseling plus sanction, up to
and including suspension for a full term or full semester.
Parents notified upon charge and disposition.

Third Strike (within 12 months of the first strike):

Sanction up to and including dismissal from the

 

 

—

THE COLON NAOD E

 

 

University \{andatory education and counsel-
ing for those students not dismissed. Parents
notified upon charge and disposition.
Discipline:

Student Organization Violations

> The Interfratemity Council shall enforce
for fraternities, and Panhellenic Council
shall enforce for sororities, a three-strike
system that outlines specific consequences
for Greek organizations that violate

University alcohol/drug policies.

Coercive or pressured drinking related to
group activities shall be a strike. ‘The fol-
lowing confirmed violations of University
alcohol/drug policies and standards will
constitute a strike, absent extenuating cir-

cumstances.

e Violations of [FC/Panhel rules govern-
ing events where alcohol ts served.

e Violations of dry-rush policies.

e Excess damage to house property.

¢ Coordinating the use of, or using, fra-
rernity/sorority funds, group funds or

slush funds to purchase alcohol.

Sanctions as follows:

First Strike: Up to and including $1,000
fine and appropriate community service. ‘Two
weeks social probation. Mandatory alcohol/
drug education program for group members,
with all costs to be paid by the group.
Notification of House Corporation, and parents
of members.

Second Strike (within 12 months of the
first strike): Up vo and including $2,500 fine and
appropriate community service. Twelve weeks
Social Probation. Mandatory alcohol/drug educa-
tion program for group members, with all costs to
be paid by the group. Notification of National
Fraternity, House Corporation and parents of
members.

Third Strike (within 12 months of the first
Strike): Up to and including immediate full-year
Suspension. Mandatory alcohol/drug education
Program for group members, with all costs to be
paid by the gr up. The terms of suspension will
be determined by the Affairs

Student
Committee.

> ‘The Office of Dean of Students will coor-
dinate the establishment of a three-strike
system, paralleling that for fraternities and
sororities, for other student organizations.

> Under the circumstances previously
described, the Dean of Students will
inform parents when a student under the
age of 21 violates University alcohol/drug
policies.

> Nothing in these regulations shall preclude
the University president or appropriate
judicial body from taking action they
determine to be justified for both individ-
ual and group accountability in accordance
with existing University policy.

> Working with the Alumni Greek Council,
House Corporations, Fraternity ‘Ireasurers
and the AGC accounting firm, establish
procedures to monitor University policy
that fraternity funds are not spent for alco-
hol. (1 C/Panhellenic Advisors)

> Create a coalition with representatives of
the national fraternity and sorority organi-
zations to work as_ partners with
Washington and Lee in addressing alcohol
issues, including educational program sup-
port. (Associate Dean of Students)

> Any University-sponsored tailgates will be
held in alcohol-free environments. (Director
of Student Actrvities|IFC and Panhellenic
Advisors/Athletic Director)

> ‘The 'lask Force endorses policies that will
increase the number of juniors and seniors
living in fraternities and sorority houses,
and residence halls. (Associate Dean of
Students)

Education and Programming
‘The University should:

> Provide additional resources to enhance
our educational programming and enable
exploration of new initiatives. Alcohol and
drug education should become an ongoing
part of a student's experience at Washing-
ton and Lee. (University Health Educator;
Director of Leadership Development)

> Provide additional resources to support
alternative non-alcoholic social events. ‘The
Director of Student Activities and Director
of the Outing Club should jointly develop

a list of possible activities, determine
potential student interest and propose a
budget to support this program. (Director of
Student Actrvities; Director of the Outing Club)

> Expand and continue to operate a reliable
live drive/safe drive program. (Director of
Student Activities)

> Annually communicate with students and
parents regarding the responsibility of stu-
dent lessees regarding alcohol and drug
laws and University policies. (Dean of
Students; University Counsel)

> Establish a Student Alliance coordinated
by the Dean of Students. ‘The Alliance will
have student representatives from a
diverse cross section of University organi-
zations and will serve as a resource and
sounding board for student issues. ‘The
Alliance will not be a judicial or governing
body. Because of the diverse membership
of the Alliance, student organizations, fac-
ulty or administrators could turn to the
Alliance for advice on University issues.
(Dean of Students)

Ceneral University Environment

> Implement strategies to reduce alcohol at
all University-sponsored events, with a spe-
cial emphasis on major weekends. In those
cases where serving of alcohol is judged an
appropriate aspect of a University campus
event, consider serving only beer and wine,
not hard liquor. (Dean of Students; Vice
President for Academic Affairs; Vice President of
Finance; Dean of the School of Law)

> Request that the administration establish a
practice under which receptions sponsored
by the University for events, which include
undergraduate student participation, be
alcohol free.

> Establish a policy that will encourage social
activities in undergraduate classroom
buildings to be alcohol free, absent special
circumstances.

> ‘The ‘lask Force believes that the height-
ened awareness of our community to alco-
hol and drug issues, combined with efforts
initiated over the past few months to
reduce alcohol abuse, are important and
should be continued. ¢

 

 

Lawyer Kieran Bartley’s caseload involves bankruptcies, evictions,
child custody and support, divorces, contract problems, insurance—
anything that crosses the threshold at Blue Ridge Legal Services in
Harrisonburg, Va. What distinguishes his clients from those of pri-

vate family lawyers is their poverty—some making $895 a month or

 

less—and that they have nowhere else to turn for help with their
legal problems.

On one day, Bartley 00L might be
drafting a court order for a client in a
housing dilemma. Another may find
him handling any one of numerous bit-
ter custody cases or helping a client
about to lose his mobile home
because he can’t afford to move it
after losing his lot lease.

The heavy caseload
makes it tempting to
quickly stereotype clients

and their problems. “I

KIERAN BARTLEY ’OOL

 

grew up in a typical
suburban home and
could never have before imagined many of these
problems,” says Bartley. “But as you get to know
the clients and their situations, you learn
more about cause and effect and
realize there are no run-of-

the-mill cases—they are

 
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Fighting injustice is not the only draw of public service. Such
work allows new lawyers immediate hands-on trial work, something
private lawyers might not experience for years. As a student, Bartley
interned at the public defender’s office and defended clients in front
of a judge through a process called third-year practice, “an exhilarat-
ing experience,” he says.

Now appearing in courts in five different counties, he admits to
learning a lot of “lawyering” by the seat

of his pants. “I am certain I have chosen
the right career, because what |
want to do on vacation is to sit
and watch other lawyers argue
in court.”
Public interest law
is out of reach for many
new lawyers, however.
While many aspire to

do good deeds,

Rm

reality soon sets

JAMES TALBERT
SLAGLE ’OOL

 

in. “Somewhere
in the third year of
school, law students do the math,” explained
‘Lalbert-Slagle. “They estimate their student
loans and come to the sad conclusion that a
whole realm of law practice—public interest—is
unavailable to them.”

W&L supports public interest law through its

 

not just I'V_ prob- ARSED clinical programs—the Black Lung Clinic, the
lems.” CRETE A Alderson Legal Assistance Program and the Virginia
James ‘Talbert- Capital Case Clearinghouse—

Slagle “OOL, a lawyer at the
Appalachian Research and

Defense Fund in_ eastern
Kentucky, focuses on mine safe-
ty. But cases are few and far For Public
between, because miners are

afraid to complain about unsafe conditions for fear
of losing their jobs, even though federal law pro-
tects them.

Cases may increase, he predicts, because the
current energy crisis and resulting coal boom are
spawning numerous renegade coal firms, Known as
“dogholes,” which have a reputation for disregard-
ing safety standards. ‘lalbert-Slagle also handles
black lung cases and is waiting to see if current

“wr

black lung regulations will be upheld. “The regula-
tions would be a victory for the little guy, who does-
n't have the resources of the large coal companies.
A coal company now can call on up to 20 to 25 doc-
tors to dispute a clear-cut diagnosis of black lung,
but the regulations would equalize the process and

limit each side to two experts.”

Experience

Inrial by Fire

Interest Lawyers

“We have made a start to
reduce the financial sacri-
fice necessary to pursue a
public interest career by
establishing the Edmund
D. Campbell Public
Interest Fund.”
—David Partlett,
dean of the Law School

Beth Matter

is Real and through several externships.
“We have made a start to reduce
the financial sacrifice necessary
to pursue a public interest career
by establishing the Edmund D.
Campbell Public Interest
Fund,” said David Partlett, dean of the Law School.
“As the fund grows, more significant support will be
given to those who have chosen to serve directly the
public interest.”

Bartley is the first recipient of W&L’s Edmund
D. Campbell Public Interest Fund, totaling $2,000
each year for up to three years. ‘lalbert-Slagle was
chosen from 25 national finalists and is the first
W&L law student to receive the prestigious
Skadden Fellowship for public interest. Offered by
the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and
Flom L.L.P, the fellowship provides a salary, bene-
fits and debt service for one year, with possibility of
renewal for a second year.

Still, the time is coming when Bartley and

‘Talbert-Slagle may have to switch to private law 1n

 

 

 

 

 

 

order to Su
student loa
furure, he \
struggles
that if | maak
distracted al
lems. I’m!
sjons with n

nal
me focusc

can find a ch

‘Talbert
ing to leave
hang of wh:
existenc e Ol
Fund or Sk:
age other st
law, or at le
bono cases
“This is in
ophy. He cor
important p:

ed people s!

a7.”

MURCH iI

ry ’
if

Ss

4
7

ncially. When Bartley’s
its increase in the near
ble to make his rent. He
predicament. “I worry
f money, | might become
interest in people’s prob-
ive to make tough deci-
money because it keeps
is important. Maybe I
partment,” he ponders.
rues the thought of hav-
“I am just getting the
loing.” He hope that the
funds as the Campbell
Fellowship may encour-
} go into public interest
t to the need to take pro
yrivate lawyer. He adds,
Robert E. Lee’s philos-

d public service to be an

-ducation, and that educat-

-rve the public.”

Vatter is a freelance writer

liwes in Nashville, Tenn.)

UNANIMOU S

SON is

“ee

Professor Brian Murchison was named
“Profess the Year” by both first-year
law students and upperclassmen in sepa-
rate voting supervised by the Student
Bar Asso ition.

“Murch,” as he is known to his stu-

dents, expressed dismay at the honors,

saying he does not see anything unusual
about he does. Students disagree.
“He made classes fun, and the energy he
brought to class every day fueled my own
energy and desire to learn,” said Ebony
Miller ’03L.

Phil Adelman ’03L agreed. “When
he le *S, It IS nota boring lecture, it’s
almost like a story he is telling.”

\ brief synopsis of his American
Publi iw Process class is particularly
tellis ihe semester “starts with
Madison vw riting The Federalist, that is the dream. Then we see
whe:

 

‘The hole in the side of the School of Law isn’t the result of a tornado or an overzealous
groundhog. Rather, construction workers are busy converting the three large lecture class-
rooms (A, B and C) to four new, more intimate classrooms. ‘he new classrooms, which will
seat 80, 65, 40 and 35 students, are wired with computer connections. ‘They also have
advanced multimedia capabilities, which will provide faculty with technological tools to
enhance their teaching, said John Keyser, director of technology and research services. Last
summer, similar renovations were completed, turning two 50-seat classrooms into two 24-seat

classrooms and a 22-seat seminar room. ‘The smaller horseshoe-shaped arrangements enhance

Smaller is Better

student-faculty discussion.

PRO F.2.4.8 oR O F

PROFESSOR BRIAN MURCHISON

MAKES LECTURES AS COM-
PELLING AS JOHN GRISHAM

NOVELS,

oes from there,” explains Murchison. “Next we go

SAY STUDENTS.

 

ss

exciting?

Tt

H

g: ¥ ta

on to Marbury v. Madison, which is the
story of the conflict between John
Marshall and ‘Thomas Jefferson. ‘Then
we discuss U.S. v. Nixon and the crimi-
nal investigation of the president. We
brought in Independent Counsel
Robert Ray ’85 to discuss what it is like
to be a special prosecutor,” said
Murchison.

‘To hear Murchison talk about the
“human conflict” and the opinions

written by “great justices, like Hugo
Black,” students feel they are reading a
John Grisham novel, not learning
about agency decision-making.
Murchison feels there are many
professors among W&L faculty who
are more deserving of the honor.

Maybe so, but as Greg Van Hoey ’03L

put it, “who else could make the federal bureaucracy seem

—John Eisinger ’03L

GENERALS’ REPORT

Major league voices. Howard Cosell “Telling It Like It Is.” Vin
Scully’s poetic “29,000 people and a million butterflies” call of
Dodger Sandy Koufax’s perfect game against the Chicago Cubs in
1965. Chick Hearn’s “slam dunk” that has become professional
basketball vernacular. Al Michaels’ Monday Night Football.
Someday, just maybe, Brendan Harrington °01 will join the ranks.
And in Lexington, we’ll be able to say, “We knew him when. .. .”

Harrington has become the voice of the Generals. For the last
3 1/2 years, he has broadcast W&L athletic events to people lis-
tening in Lexington and around the
world via the Internet. In the
process, Harrington found a career.

“I played three sports in high
school and, unfortunately, God
didn’t bless me with the ability to
play at the college level,” said
Harrington. “But, I really believe that broadcasting
the games is the next best thing.”

A native of Naples, N.Y., Harrington knew he
wanted to pursue a degree in journalism, but he was
unsure of a direction. Harrington had begun writing
sports for The Ring-tum Phi and held a work-study
position in the sports information office. One of his
sports office responsibilities was to run the score-
board

“While operating the scoreboard, I would make

comments about

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
  

the game, and
the people
around me seemed inter-
ested in what I had to
say,” said Harrington.
“It was then that I
knew that I had a
talent for it.” Brian
Logue, then sports

nN)

information director,

Turn of the Dial

Voue of the Generals

Click of the Mouse

“I almost feel guilty
for receiving so much
credit for broadcasting
the games, because it’s
been a labor of love.”

a.

Brian Laubscher

 

gave him the opportunity to broadcast the Emory & Henry game
that season. As they say, the rest is history.

Harrington took over as sports director of WLUR and began
expanding the broadcast schedule to include men’s soccer,
women’s soccer, volleyball, women’s basketball, men’s lacrosse,
women’s lacrosse and baseball games, increasing the number of
events to nearly 70 per school year. He scheduled studio engineers
and improved the overall quality of the broadcasts by including
pregame and postgame interviews with coaches and _ players.
Harrington served as the color
commentator for Doug Chase °74,
the veteran play-by-play announe-
er for football and basketball
games, interjecting interesting
observations. ‘Then he began sery-
ing as the play-by-play announcer
for numerous events.

Chase took Harrington under his wing and
trained him as the duo traveled to nearly every foot-
ball and basketball game over the last four years.
“Doug gave me a lot of pointers on play-by-play,”
said Harrington. “There are so many things that
Doug has taught me that I wouldn’t even know
where to start.”

Harrington also attributes his broadcast oppor-
tunity to his choice to attend Washington and Lee
rather than Syracuse or Wake Forest. “At W&L, I’ve
had a chance to learn on the job,” said Harrington.
“At Division I schools like Syracuse and Wake
Forest, I may have had the opportunity to broadcast the games as
a senior, but not as a freshman. I’ve been fortunate to broadcast a
wide variety of sports and a number of great games.”

As time went by, people around the ODAC and beyond
became aware of Harrington’s talents. In his junior year, he was
contacted by North Carolina Wesleyan University to provide color
analysis for their games in the NCAA South Region Baseball
Tournament. Later that spring, he did color commentary for the

Salem Avalanche, the Single-A affiliate of the Colorado

Rockies.

Last fall, Harrington teamed with friend and classmate Henry
Gola ’01 to produce a football show on Cable Channel 2 called
“Generals Football Weekly.” The show included highlights of the
previous week’s game and covered the week in W&L athletics.

“Brendan helped create a level of awareness that our sports
broadcasts were very good,” said Mike Walsh, athletic director.
“He raised our radio coverage of W&L athletics to another
level, and I know that our parents and alumni are very
pleased. The television show was another terrific piece of
work.”
As the University made plans to move WLUR away from
the journalism department’s supervision as part of the overall
plan for renovation of Reid Hall, someone was needed to run

 

 

Washington and

<5 in A a tase 6 6 thie nied

 

—

“Brendan helped create

that our sports broad-

”
casts were very good.

  
   
   

 

s

o tm Ske || ian ate ote!

he station and continue with sports broadcasts as on-air operations
the st ‘

and programming director. The University created an internship
position, with Harrington, who graduated this spring with a 3.5
G.PA., the ob. ious choice.

“This is the ultimate flat-
tery—having a job waiting for you

when your college career is

ness 9 ° . “
a level of aware through,” said Harrington. “I
almost feel guilty for receiving so

much credit for broadcasting the

—_Mike Walsh,

athletic director.

games, because it’s been a labor of

love.”

 

Harrington will work with
Walsh and Tom White, director of communications and external
relations, to include more University activities and further improve
on-air sports broadcasts. Web broadcasting is a primary focus.
“Brendan will do a great job with the station,” said Bob de
Maria, journalism professor and former station manager. “He is a
very smart young man who has a tremendous work ethic. He’s

doing what he loves and knows what he wants.”

Internet Action, Home or Away
Washington and Lee sports fans are just a click away from play-by-play
action. That's right—stadium seating with your home computer. Sixty

audio streams are avail-

 

ss able on a first-come,

fewest tron e Seerch «etree

 

first-serve basis for many

 

Washington and Lee Athletics

football

games, all men’s basket-

events. All

 

 

 

 

PO Drawer 928 + Lexington, Va. 14450 » Phone 540-463-8670 + Hotline 540-463-8998

    
 
    
    
  
   
   
   
 
  
   

You can now lisen w the Generals play | y

enyvhere in the Work! vie the inermet

Broadcasts ong inate over the campus radio

Seton, WLUR 91.5 in Lexingwn. Just click

bem © visit he WLUR poge and then click on

Ge link for “lisen © WLUR" in onter ©

cath te ection WLUR vill be broadcasting

approximately 70 athienc contests this season

Broadcasts ase also available though TEAMLINE For more information on this
service, click here To look at « spring broadcast schedule, click here.

ball games, numerous
basketball

some

  

women’s
games, soccer

matches and selected

 

lacrosse and _ baseball
games can be accessed
via the Web. Just fire up
your home computer

and go to wwwathlet-

 

ae ics.wlu.edu. From there,

WAL. Names A }chuckert Mea Women’s Cross Country Coach 6 1) . 2

Dart eth . *K < ‘
SSPE eee ere Mae Wah hs emma te ppm of click on a link under the
& feki coach Schucke:! wal began her Guttes effecte July | Complies Release

 

Ue ea a ne 5, Metal Larios Team 6/1) section listed, “Listen to
US Lacrosse har annowne ! ‘ ‘ ah
scm) foe tbo brn mace © te Une Se Vernal aoe Tran ,

the Generals,” which
the WLUR

Web site. Next, click on

accesses

of
Deki tus week wm Sal Lae

thchegicn nd a - ; autos Duma Seger @uaten

@ and | TX B +: Dewet

act fe art bora a ance - volsapse Sasa
sa nor s

— enton AL-St & voting comiucted by Ge Vigune S ports

IT the link for “Listen to

WLUR Online.” Audio

al atic: : ) ? . “
itomatically will download to your desktop. You will need “real-

 

slaver” La ' : :
Player’ to be able to listen. Free downloads are available at

Www | » . ry. . . . .
w.real.com. ‘The only thing missing is the cheerleaders!

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

 

Walsh Honored

Washington and Lee athletic director Mike Walsh has been named
the NACDA/Continental Airlines Division III Southeast Region
Athletic Director of the Year. Walsh was
presented with the award at the 36th
Annual National Association of Col-
legiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA)
Convention held this week in Salt Lake
City, Utah.

A total of 25 athletic directors were
recognized for the Northeast, Southeast,
Central and West Regions in NCAA
Divisions IA, I-AA, II and I, the NAIA
and Junior/Community College.

Criteria for the award include a commitment to higher educa-
tion of student-athletes and the ability to inspire individuals or
groups to high levels of accomplishment. Candidates for the award
were nominated by NACDA-member directors of athletics, insti-
tutional presidents and conference commissioners.

Walsh arrived at W&L in October of 1989 as the fifth athletic
director in the school’s history. During his 12 years, the Generals
have won 64 Old Dominion Athletic Conference titles, qualified 24
teams for NCAA post-season play and had 16 athletes earn GTE or
Verizon Academic All-America honors.

U.S. Lacrosse Team
Buoyed With WEL Blue

Tim Schurr ’84 is among 23 players selected to the United States
National Lacrosse ‘Team.

Schurr will compete in the International Lacrosse Federation
World Championships to be held July 6-14, 2002 in Perth,
Australia. He has been playing for
the Long Island Lacrosse Club,
which won the 2001 United States
Club Lacrosse Association Na-

   
 

tional ‘Title.

A defenseman, Schurr, played in 44
career games for the Generals from 1981-
1984. He collected 279 career ground balls,
including a team-high 155 during the
1984 season. He also totaled one goal
and two assists for his career.

Schurr and Matt Dugan ’01 (Rockaway, N.J./Mountain Lakes)
were among 143 players invited to try out for the team.

The U.S. National Team coach is former W&L head coach
Jack Emmet. +

 

 

 

 

 

THE STORY IS LEGEND. BACK IN THE LATE 80S, FUND RAISING
FOR A PERFORMING ARTS CENTER HAD HIT A PLATEAU. THEN-PRESIDENT JOHN WILSON AND

FARRIS HOTCHKISS, VICE PRESIDENT OF UNIVERSITY RELATIONS, TRAVELED TO PHILADELPHIA FOR A LUNCHEON
with cable television guru Gerry Lenfest °53, °55L, and his wife, Marguerite. ‘They hoped to be persuasive in their plea,
but they were not prepared for what happened next. Lenfest, who chaired the “On the Shoulders of Giants” capital
campaign from 1990-1995, looked to his wife and said, “Should we do it?” She said, “It’s your money.” Lenfest
responded, “Good. I’m happy to be done with business so we can enjoy our lunch.” That day resulted in a $3 million gift
toward construction of the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. A $2 million gift for endowment followed.

Hotchkiss may be the only person who knows what it must be like to win the lottery. Not just once but several times over. Each

time Washington and Lee is named beneficiary of a gift, there is a thrill that comes from imagining what can be accomplished next.

"
Washington weit sen Bm 2% wok « Mit G4 “A WZ le NA

OH d

a O

Yun

N

HSGvug

MY

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hotchkiss, who retires in December after a 35-year career spent
OCCNKISS, ™ ,

atv in fund raising, recites a litany of memorable moments
primar - -—
: yped forward to help Washington and Lee at a

me Ste}

W hen somect
here was the $9 million gift from Sydney *40, ’43L

| rume.

very critica ; : .
sis to build anew Law School, and a $16 million estate

and Frances |
¢ from Eli berh Lewis, widow of J. Edward Lewis °29. “That
ort Iie

blew me awa’ Hotchkiss says. Another came from John Lee Pratt,
cw AWE Ys ‘

4 University friend « ultivated by President Francis Pendleton Gaines

1 nurtured by President Fred Cole. When he died in 1975, Pratt
anc at

ramed W&L in his will for $11 million
n:

*

a phenomenal
amount of money in those days,” says Hotchkiss.

The moments weren't always about money. He clearly
remembers — “after hay ing done all sorts of pleadings and
endorsement-gathering”—the day in 1972 when a letter arrived
from the Department of the Interior, designating the front campus
as a National Historic landmark. “It was one of my greatest
thrills,” he says.

Todav’s Washington and Lee its far different from the one
Hotchkiss knew as a student or came to work for in 1966. ‘Then, most
universities didn’t have development staffs. Fund raising happened
in fits and starts.

Since 1972. however, Hotchkiss has been the hub of the wheel for
two campaigns and an important asset for a third, currently underway.
A “Campaign for the Rising Generation,” which will launch publicly
in October. has received more than $158 million toward a $225 mil-
lion goal during a three year “quiet” phase.

He has served four presidents: Cole, Robert E.R. Huntley °50,
‘57L, John Wilson and John W. Elrod. He has logged more than 1 mil-
lion air miles, eaten untold banquet meals and attended more cere-
monies than he can count. He and his wife, Judy, have entertained
hundreds of \V&L guests and staff in their home. During his tenure,
the University’s endowment has grown from $18 million to more than
$400 million. And as secretary to the Board of Trustees for 12 years,
he oriented 47 new members, a new president and two new rectors,
earning a reputation as the “go to” guy. He has witnessed the
building and maturing of the campus and curriculum.

“It is said that no one person is ever replaceable in an institu-
tion,” says Elrod, for whom Hotchkiss has served as assistant since

Oo “CD : : r ° :
1999. “Farris is the exception to this rule. No one has his institu-

tional Knowledge of the University. No one has known so many
alumni, parents and friends of the University as Farris... . : And |
Know of no one who loves more and is more deeply devoted to

the University than Farris.”

Adds Frank Surface ’60, rector of the Board, “Not only is he the

Person most responsible for the extraordinary growth of our endow-

ment to the level it enjoys today, but for 30 years he has served as one

0 ° mr 1 ' . i ,_ £ ° +h)
tthe most important resources for presidents and board members.
Hotchkiss brought a unique perspective to fund raising. “You have

to be convinced that what you re raising money for is worthwhile,”
says Ed Spencer °53, who retired this spring as professor of geology.

Farris has this strong, positive feeling about the University. He’s also
One of the most polished. upbeat, likable people, and one who takes
4 real interest in others. That’s what makes him so valuable.”
“He’s an ambassador extraordinaire,” said Jim Ballengee ’48L,

former rector of the Board and former chairman of the University’s
250th anniversary celebration. “People were always eager to see him.”

As is typical, Hotchkiss takes no credit. “I have had the privilege
of working for four great presidents, each in his own way doing some-
thing important for the University. Each brought the University the

sort of strength it needed.”

wa) Cee (mas
+7 €33:

Hotchkiss entered W&L in 1954 as an economics major with his
trademark enthusiasm. Believing extracurricular activities would
count almost as much as academic performance when it came to
post-graduate job hunting, he accumulated a resume that eventually
got him tapped for ODK, the service fraternity. He was secretary to
his fraternity, Beta ‘Theta Phi, a member of the dance board, vice
president of Fancy Dress, dorm counselor and a member of the
Literary Society. He loved working in the journalism department’s
print shop, mesmerized by the transformation of hot molten lead to
ink on paper. He was editor of 7/e Ring-tum Phi, back when it was
published twice a week, with ‘Tuesday and Friday staffs racing to
scoop each other. As editor in chief of the Ca/yx yearbook, he made
his first solicitation—asking the Container Corp. of America for
permission to use its “Great Ideas of Western Man” illustrated
quotations as section dividers.

“From the moment he arrived as a freshman, it was clear that
Farris and the University would become inseparable,” recalls ‘Tom
Litzenburg °57, director of the Reeves Center and acting chaplain at
W&L. “By the time of his graduation, | doubt there was a single stu-
dent, faculty member or dean who did not know and respect him.”

It was a time when professors had nicknames like “Eddie the Ax”

and “Snortin’ Morton.” Students didn’t question authority. “They

 

IN HOTCHKISS’ TIME, THERE WERE TWO EDITIONS OF THE

RING-TUM PHI, TUESDAY AND FRIDAY, WITH SEPARATE STAFFS
AND A FAIR AMOUNT OF COMPETITION BETWEEN THE TWO. AFTER
REPORTING AND WRITING THE STORIES, THE STAFF WOULD PUT THE
PAPER “TO BED” IN W&L’S PRINT SHOP WITH A LETTER PRESS,
HOT LEAD AND ALL. HOTCHKISS IS ON THE RIGHT.

Oe A 8 6 Wek 1s KE HR

could hitchhike without concern. ‘They danced
to Count Bassie, Louis Armstrong and Guy
Lombardo afer they had presented their dates to
the faculty or staff sitting in the chaperone box.
Often, the question generating the most debate
on campus was how to decorate for the dances.

In a 1996 interview with Mame Warren,
author of the 250th commemorative book, Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee, Hotchkiss recalled,
“I think the greatest moment of stark terror I
have ever had was when we were painting things
for the finals dance.” Students were hanging
great sheets of paper and painting them light
blue. “We figured out that it would take us utter-
ly forever to paint all that paper with a paint-
brush, so we rented a spray painter. We were
painting along and getting the job done pretty
fast, when all of a sudden, Norm Lord (deceased
professor of physical education and coach) walked
in and said, ‘My God, Hotchkiss! Look what
you've done.’ I turned around, and the entire
gymnasium floor behind me_ was_ blue.
Fortunately, and the only reason why I’m proba-
bly here today, was there was just enough of a
draft in the gym to pick up this spray. But by the
time if fell on the floor, it dried completely, and
you could just brush it off with a broom.”

‘They were halcyon days, but for Hotchkiss,
they almost came to an abrupt end. His father
died his junior year. “ he only way I could come
back to school senior year was a Union Carbide
scholarship. I never really thought much about
where scholarships come from. I was so
grateful.” It was something he never forgot.

Within a short time of
graduation, Hotchkiss had
his dream job with McCall
Corp. in Atlanta, the
Georgia division of Foote
and Davies Inc., a publish-
ing and book manufactur-
ing firm. He also had his
dream girl, the belle of
many W&L balls, Judy
Love, of Atlanta, a gradu-
ate of Hollins. ‘They were
married in 1963.

As with many alumni,
Lexington had its pull. On
a trip to Washington, he
stopped by campus to say
hello to old friends,
including Frank Gilliam,

dean of students. On his

Who does your shirts?
University Cleaners.

What is your
least favorite food?

Rubber chicken.

How many miles
have you flown?

“lve been a member of USAir’s
60,000 miles-a-year club for a
very long time.

Of what are you most proud?
Lenfest Center,
Rockbridge Regional Library
and Kendall at Lexington, the
retirement community.

Most exciting moment?
‘The Lewis gift to build the
Law School.

Most profound moment?
Coeducation.

What will you miss the most?
Wonderful relationships of both a
personal and institutional nature
with folks who are naturally philan-
thropic and who love W&L.

What will you miss the least?
Name tags.

 

 

“FANCY DRESS, 1957, THE CROWN PRINCE AND PRINCESS OF PRUSSIA,
FREDERICK WILLIAM AND FREDERICA LOUISE, WERE ENACTED BY MISS JUDITH
LOVE, HOLLINS COLLEGE, AND FARRIS HOTCKISS,” (FAR LEFT) SAID A CAPTION
IN THE ROANOKE TIMES. DON GIOVANNI WAS THE THEME OF THE BALL.

way out the door, Hotchkiss offhandedly,
remarked, “Gee, if you'd ever want me to
come here, I'd be back in a second.”

‘The call came in 1966 when another
classmate, Lew John, professor of politics
but then assistant dean of students and
director of student financial aid, took a sab-
batical creating an opening. Just as
Litzenburg predicted, Hotchkiss and W&1,

have been inseparable every since.

 

As an eager new development officer,
young Hotchkiss went off to a professional
conference to learn how to raise money. He
recalls, “I sat down and listened to people
talk about how to solicit gifts and how to find
out how much money people have, and |
thought to myself that this sounded a lot like
selling used cars. I said to myself, ‘Farris,
what have you done?’ ” Soon, however, he
figured out his own way of doing things.

With E.R.
Huntley, a vigorous president who immedi-

the arrival of Robert
ately set about strengthening alumni inter-
est in W&L, fund raising kicked into high
gear. Hotchkiss remembered his own schol-
arship, and his conviction deepened.

“Talk about raising money is an unfor-
tunate misnomer. I have never felt like I
raised a gift. What I did was develop a relation-
ship that resulted in someone wanting to do
something important. ‘The donor comes much
farther across the line in
that equation. ‘The most
satisfying part of bring-
ing philanthropy to
W&L is that you have
brought a human being
to W&L. This Univer
sity is a gift. We cant
ever lose sight of that.”

Within a few years,
Hotchkiss faced his
first test. ‘The Univer-
sity was about to launch
its first major campaign
in 1972 with a goal of
$62 million. “We were in
bad shape,” he recalls.
“We seriously had to
seck philanthropic sup-
port for buildings and

 

Washiunadto

 

 

laries to guarantee Our survival as a quality institution. A place like
salaries pts

Washington
“During a

nd Lee can’t exist without philanthropy.”
| chose years in the °70s, especially the early ’70s, when

fund-raising &' ais seemed unrealistic but essential, as we had com-
mitted to spend more than we had, the stock market was going back-
wards, inflation was at 15 percent, we had $60 million to raise and
oni weren't as used to giving in those days, Farris retained his
= and kept our spirits high,” says former President Huntley.
“ Yne time,” he chuckles, “we had planned a big event with major
donors in Florida. (he culmination was a black-tie dinner at which |

vas to deliver a rip-r varing speech. Well, the ‘Teamsters were meet-
was a

‘ng in a banquet hall next to ours, separated only by a thin partition.
5 —

Thev had the loudest band, so not a word of my rip-roaring speech

could be heard. Farris (5-foot-8, 140 pounds] tried to negotiate with

the Teamsters, but they threw him out— literally threw him out.”

Meanwhile, Hotchkiss crisscrossed the country. At one particu-
larly low point, working with the most minimal staff, he recalls, “We
-— not making progress, and I needed to find some help fast.” He
borrowed an idea from corporate America, that of loaning executives
for short periods of time to civic projects like United Way.
“\firaculously, | was able to find seven alumni who were willing to
take substantial leaves from their businesses to work, mostly part
time. for the campaign. hat was a remarkable time that I think could
not be duplicated today even if we tried.”

The campaign lasted until 1981. When the accounting was done,
W&L was $5 million over goal. A pivotal gift was $9 million from
Sydney and Francis Lewis for construction of a new School of Law.
The campaign also funded the new Leyburn Library, Woods Creek
Apartments, Warner Center, renovation of the old library for the
Commerce School and renovation of ‘lucker and Newcomb Halls.
New academic programs included East Asian Studies and Society
and Professions Program in Ethics. Endowed professorships and
scholarships were strengthened.

By 1990, the University had a new set of needs. ‘The “On the
Shoulders of Giants” campaign lasted until 1995, utilizing 1,300 vol-
unteers in 39 regional campaigns across the country. Again, Hotchkiss
was pivotal.

“You're always raising money, but there is an advantage to a cam-
paign,” says Hotchkiss. “Actually, it’s not so much that you need a
campaign, but you need an institutional plan. An institutional plan
has aspects that need financing, and those objectives cannot be
financed with normal revenues or return on the endowment you
already have. The only way to get from A to Z is to raise gifts for those
Special purposes.”

With gifts from trustees, faculty, staff, alumni, parents, friends,
corporations and foundations, the campaign drew the broadest partic-
Ipation ever in the philanthropic life of the University, raising $147
million, $20 million over goal. Gifts made in the early stages provid-
ed for the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Later gifts funded
the new Science addition and the renovation of Howe and Parmly

Halls, the largest capital project in W&Ls history to date—$23.7

million. Th

l2 ne ae i
"eW protessorships, an addition to Lewis Hall to house the papers
Of former |

© campaign also provided for 148 endowed scholarships,

->. Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell ’29, ’31L,

the Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts, the Duchossois ‘Tennis Center
and Fraternity Renaissance.

Former President John Wilson, who led the campaign, says of
Hotchkiss, “He can ask people for money, and a lot of people can’t.
People trust him, because he’s such a loyal member of the W&L
community. It all stems from his convictions that the institution is
valuable and should be preserved. | remember a story about a young
man who came to see John D. Rockefeller about money but seemed
embarrassed to ask. Rockefeller said, ‘If the cause is a worthy cause,
you have an obligation to ask, and I have an obligation to respond.’ ”

As the University advances its newest campaign, a University
Commons is among the many initiatives set out in a plan conceived
by President Elrod. “The Commons is not just a structure but a fac-

,

tor in student life,” says Hotchkiss. W&L students, including me,
have never had a place to hang out. It was time for it in 1968, but we
just couldn't afford it. We included it in the 1990-95 campaign, but
the Science Center took precedence. I don’t think it will result in the

diminution of Greek systems; it may just make them healthier.”

r “a - — pines anv
put oy Lo Seas Thy ere
a ees re ‘> <
a

ers rt

7
7
a3

 

MANY YEARS AGO, HOTCHKISS SLIPPED A DISK. HE SPENDS
A LOT OF TIME ON THE TELEPHONE. PAT BRADY, WHO RETIRED
AS PLANT PROJECT MANAGER IN 1982, FOUND A DRAFTING
TABLE FOR HIM SO HE COULD STAND UP, TALK ON THE PHONE
AND LOOK OUT AT LEE CHAPEL AND THE LAWN.
“SOMETIMES YOU SEE SOMEONE COMING UP THE WALK
YOU DIDN’T EXPECT TO SEE,” HE SAYS.

 

ee

OH d

O

~

During reunion weekend this spring, Hotchkiss was walking
around campus, reminiscing with Archie Jenkins, a classmate and fra-
ternity brother, about the room they once shared in the Beta House,
one painted by Beauregard Redmond ’55. It had, Hotchkiss recalls,
“some New Orleans scenes, 360 degrees, and some of the scenes

were pretty darned realistic.”

On this spring day, however, Hotchkiss seemed slightly out of

character. He was wearing an open shirt and wo “#e. Hotchkiss always
has had a GQ reputation on campus. Fellow travelers complain that
he can look absolutely crisp after a 12-hour day and several airline
delays, when they wilted long before. During their travels together,
former President Wilson recalls Hotchkiss was already up and had run
five miles, showered and shaved before he was ready for breakfast. “I
had a more careless attitude about dress,” he confesses.

But Hotchkiss was a product of W&L’s conventional dress era,
and old habits die hard. When he moved back to Lexington in ’66,
the family stayed in a hotel until the moving van arrived. “I woke
up on a Saturday morning—this is going to sound dumb—I really
debated whether to wear a tie to the hardware store to buy a

broom,” he told Warren for Come Cheer. “It was fun to complain
[about conventional dress], but you were really proud you were
.1 think there’s something

doing it, and I really wish we still did. . .

intangible about the way you dress.

F Pests F ,

vt wy

© Ay 7 as
z *

P

 

2 ?
: Ee
t -
ee
eS “<a Te

e
~~
i. a

in tse

4 o
iP arr

  

 

 

the
—% “ 7

 
    

*

-
2

  
 

r i es : x
to Je
te SY

o..
i

Seay

  

oy

ne.
Ss $s
at

By
LS
a

Sotud

   

 

Pa ts
td 5
7 ~~’
i "
e “

ate et ce om

HOTCHKISS ARRIVES HOME IN A SNOWSTORM IN MARCH 1987

WEARING MAKESHIFT BOOTS CREATED BY ROANOKE AIRPORT
EMPLOYEES. WHILE HE DIDN’T RUIN HIS SHOES, THIS
DOESN’T FLATTER HIS GQ IMAGE.

 
 
   
 
     

 

  

W&L Campaign History

   

1949-50:
$2 million raised in conjunction with the University’s
bicentennial, $1 million short of goal.

 
 
  
 

  

Barely raised $2 million for new science and
journalism facilities.

     
  
 

  

1972-1981:
Decade campaign, $67 million, $5 million over goal.

  
   

  

“On the Shoulders of Giants” campaign, $147 millions | a
$20 million over goal. a

     
   

  

1999-2003:

“For the Rising Generation,” public launch, Oct. 19,
‘To date, $158 million received toward a $225 million goal
in “quiet” phase. 4

 
   
   
 

“I don’t want to be overly critical of the way students or faculty

dress. But you dress for the occasion. If you value the conversation,
you dress for the caliber of that conversation. Conversations with
alumni are always top quality.”

‘The statement is vintage Hotchkiss, a quintessential W&L
gentleman. “All he is in public, he is in private as well—the big smile
on his face. He’s just genuinely friendly and interested,” says Penny
Henneman, who with husband, Ned, have gathered socially with the
Hotchkisses on birthdays for at least 20 years.

“Farris always makes you believe that you’re the most important
person in the world,” says Denise Watts, graphics coordinator in the
publications department, where Hotchkiss frequently stops in with
“just a little project.”

“He is a gentleman personified. I’ve never heard him say a dis-
paraging word about anybody,” says former Lexington Mayor Buddy
Derrick, who this year received an honorary degree from W&L.

Hotchkiss brings his wife coffee in bed every morning. He’s
fastidious about running a bar, observes George Ray, retired
English professor. “When he mixes a second drink for a friend, he
starts from scratch and throws the old ice away. It’s all part of his
graciousness and gracefulness.” When he fractured a kneecap on
a father-son camping weekend years before cell phones, he was
stoic in spite of the considerable pain as he dragged his way out
of the remote location, recalls Len Jarrard, retired psychology
professor, who accompanied him on the trip.

“He has a genuine concern for everyone’s welfare, especially the
community,” says Jerry Nay, Lexington developer, friend and fellow
member of the Cursillo prayer group of R. E. Lee Episcopal Church.
“He’s strong in his beliefs, but he doesn’t wear it on his sleeve.”
For 15 years, whenever he’s not traveling, Hotchkiss has joined five
men for a monthly prayer breakfast. Cursillo is a Spanish term that

 

  
  
 
 

 

 

—— tM

‘s an abreviall
course in Ch
Paxton "49, an
cual refresh
What does
money. Fo!
Rockbridge x
the new reure
through the
Derrick,
Community !
“He’s always
We're here
together. Fai
respond to a
out,” says D«
cause, it’s a gial
When Lexin
munity, it Wé
astonished at |
Bent Sr, am
George Bent,
responsibility
cial commitm<¢

we could have

’

the table. contid

He also ts
‘63L, who reur
years Hotchki
homeless. “It
negotiate ber
middle class |
because of it.

“It’s been
and my famil
15-minute st
any redeem!
Lexington. ‘]
has worked {
the number ot
herself, the n
house she’s |
would do difi

Lew Joh:
called “Oy
Hotchkiss: j)
Purpose of
which he |
Saw his fury

“From
Calls to m
being the
Observers

are now rf]

o shoulder. . .

f Cursillo en Christianidad,” a short
“We look forward to it,” says Matt

1. and member. “It’s a time of spiri-
makes us accountable to each other.”
hkiss do in his spare time? Raise more
-wall Jackson Hospital. For the
nal Library. For Kendall at Lexington,

community. For hundreds of causes

hitect of the new Rockbridge County
tion, sums up Hotchkiss’ motivation.
pletely aware of the bigger picture.
r and we need to work and live
the kind of person who will always
- community need. We’ll wear him
“But if Farris lends his name to a

-p forward.”
decided it wanted a retirement com-
Hotchkiss. “Kendall [national] was
iccess they showed,” recalled George
of the corporate board and father of
iate professor of art. “It’s an awesome
1 community established, a big finan-
in the early going, there were moments
‘n up. Farris was a positive voice around

t that it could be done.”

fective negotiator. Uncas McThenia ’58,
s a law professor in the spring, recalls the
lunteered with Gladys’ House for the
always touch and go. He was able to
the culture that lived there and the
on the board. He got a lot of gray hair

| henia says.
iderful to have things so important to me
wurch, University and the village—within a
says Hotchkiss. “If [business] travel has
feature, it's when you come back to
wnside is being away from family. “Judy
; University as well,” he says. “I think of
hts she was alone with the children or by
r of lunches, dinners and gatherings at the

.” There’s not much either

CY.

ils an unsigned essay in the 1958 Ca/yx
se.” It was selected by editor in chief

he may have written it. It talks about the

on “to improve man and the places in

\nd it concludes this way, as if Hotchkiss

loment on, each concrete symbol that
our residence here must also call into
e have received. We are no longer the

substance of the University, rather, we

smittors.”

 

.

PARENTS AND GRADS: FARRIS HOTCHKISS WITH DAUGHTER
JULIA ’89L. AS THEY SAY, THE APPLE DOESN’T FALL FAR
FROM THE TREE. SHE IS NOW ASSOCIATE VICE PRESIDENT
FOR DEVELOPMENT FOR THE HIGH DESERT MUSEUM IN
BEND, ORE. SON, CLIFF, A CHEF, AND GRANDDAUGHTER,
GAMELLIA, ARE MOVING BACK TO ATLANTA, THE HOTCHKISS
FAMILY’S FIRST HOME. A SECOND SON, PIERSON, A
SURVEYOR, LIVES IN LEXINGTON, GIVING GRANDPARENTS
TIME TO PLAY WITH FARRIS P. HOTCHKISS III. A THIRD
GRANDCHILD IS EXPECTED IN AUGUST.

BY

 

THIS JUNE, BOBBI JO ALEXIS ’01 GRADUATED FROM WASHINGTON AND LEE ONE WEEK AFTER HER

OWN DAUGHTER, STEVIE LEE ALEXIS, GRADUATED FROM YELLOW BRICK ROAD PRESCHOOL. OVER

THE LAST TWO YEARS, ALEXIS HAS JUGGLED MOTHERHOOD, A JOB AND FULL-TIME STUDIES TO

COMPLETE HER DEGREE AS A MATH MAJOR. THIS FALL, SHE WILL ENTER THE W&L SCHOOL OF LAW.

“She had a lot on her plate and handled it very well,” said

Scott Dittman, University registrar, for whom Alexis worked for

more than a year. “She knew what she had to do and did it
without complaining. We’re all very proud of her.” Sometimes
that included bringing her daughter to work. “Stevie’s a cute
kid,” added Dittman. “She would play with the toys on my desk.”

When Alexis started at W&L in the fall of 1992. she did

not have a child, but she was still a non-traditional student.
“I consider myself to be Creole—of mixed race,” explained
Alexis. “Washington and Lee wasn’t as inclusive in 1992 as it is
now. . . didn’t look like anyone.” It was a difficult adjustment.
She went through sorority rush, because all the girls did,
but she didn’t get a bid. Then, in February, her mother

passed away following a long illness.

Ea \ M t M

 

=

SOU ALOHd Oo

Au
oe ae

NO1
asian

Al 4A NIM

Ls

Alexis bi
sleeping. He:
that I could s
family.” ‘The
more and n
spiral, and b
pursuing a la

Things \
riverboat cap
creating a dil
house of one
and temp w
1995, when |
Alexis, who
efficiency ay

Then A
tant district
to do. She w
poenas. Du:
tant, but sh
went towar
my time of}
would mak

Throw
she Kept in
Carly years
been diffe;

Alexis VOT

 

that first semester back, she made
the Dean’s List.

“Bobby Jo is a remark-
able person and storyteller,”
said Professor Wayne Dymacek,
who has taught her upper level
math. “She could somehow make
a story about characters from
Louisiana relevant to a complex
math problem.” If Alexis didn’t
have the support most students
expect from their families, staff and
faculty helped make up for the
lack. “I had a hundred parents
here,” she laughed. She earned
the respect of classmates as well.

Sull, it hasn’t been an easy
path. Alexis had very little extra
time or money for socializing.

Her daughter, Stevie, has been

XIS AND DAUGHTER, STEVIE, WITH MATH PROFESSORS

PAUL BOURDON ’°’81 (LEFT) AND MIKE EVANS.

‘ipping classes, and she spent a lot of time
; began to slip. “I never would have believed
/-minus. School had always set me apart in my
fall, she returned to school, but she became

ited. Her grades continued their downward

er break she decided to quit. Her dream of

ree seemed illusive.

} easier back in Louisiana. Alexis’ father, a
vith a third-grade education, had remarried,
home situation for her. She moved from the

member to another, while doing telemarketing

hen she met Stevie’s father. In November of

d out she was pregnant, the relationship soured.
orking as a secretary, moved into a one-room
nt. Her daughter was born on welfare.
inaged to land a job as an assistant to an assis-
. It was the kind of work she’d always wanted
hearings, prepared documents, even served sub-
tour years there, she was promoted to legal assis-
ruggled to balance her finances. Half her salary
Stevie into good day care. “I cleaned houses in
lid whatever I had to do, because I knew school
rid of difference for my daughter,” she said.
is difficult period, she never forgot W&L and

vith those who had been important to her in her

-w | wasn’t a bad student, and that if things had

uld have done better,” she said. ‘Then Bobbi Jo

| chance. Financial aid enabled her return, and

her companion. Outings consisted
of an ice cream sundae at Shoney's
and an afternoon at Kid’s Playce. Assignments took longer to do
while she was caring for her child, and Stevie spent many evenings
drawing on the chalkboard in Robinson Hall while her mother
studied with her math partner. “I didn’t want to be the single-mom
poster child,” said Alexis. “I would rather have done things the
conventional way.”

Still her supporters here are proud of her. When she walked
through the Colonnade on June 7 dressed in cap and gown, the
W&L family celebrated with her with smiles and applause, and
Stevie marched proudly at her side.

Courtney Penn ’92, assistant dean of students and a near con-
temporary of Alexis, was impressed with her ability to keep going,
“Most people would have quit, given the obstacles she’s had to over-
come. But it’s exactly these obstacles that will lead to her success.”

Way to go, Bobbi Jo.

 

STEVIE DRAWS ON THE CHALKBOARD WHILE MOM STUDIES.

OuHd

7 (a O

I1uo

S

> N

O1OHd

A

DAN BIRDWHISTELL,.

AN INAUGURAL GATES CAMBRIDGE SCHOLAR.

 

 
 

Man Birdwhistell ls Singing a Happy Tune

BY

> . |
Lort Otevens

 

DAN

WAS ONE OF

, GATES CAMBRIDGE SCHOLARSHIP IN

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation created a $210 million
endowment for a new international scholarship program at the
University of Cambridge. ‘The scholarship provides a fully funded year
of graduate study there. Gates Cambridge Scholars are “selected on
grounds of academic ability and leadership potential....Over time it is
anticipated that Gates Cambridge Scholars will take a lead in
addressing global problems related to health, equity, technology
and learning—al! areas in which the Foundation is deeply engaged.”

“I am very honored to be a part of the inaugural group of Gates
Cambridge Scholars,” said Birdwhistell. “W&L prepared me very
well for the selection process, and beyond that, my future graduate
education at Cambridge.” He will be working toward a master’s of
philosophy in politics, democracy and education.

Birdwhistell’s interest in education began at an early age. He
was still in middle school in Georgetown, Ky., when he began tutor-
ing students just a grade below. Later, during a mission trip to
Louisville Birdwhistell’s sophomore year in high school, he helped
with a camp for inner-city children. The experience crystallized his
vision of reforming education for low-income people. As part of the
Kentucky Governor’s Scholars Program in 1996, he promoted the
student voice in education reform and lobbied for more student
involvement in school site-based decision-making. As a result, he
Was recognized as an Honorable Kentucky Colonel by an act of the
Kentucky Legislature.

No doubt his interests were somewhat influenced by his home
environment. He is the son of Jack and Nancy Birdwhistell, profes-
sors at Georgetown College in Georgetown, Ky. His sister, Cory, is
pursuing a Ph.D. in education at the University of Kentucky.

Last year, Birdwhistell earned the prestigious $35,000 ‘Truman
Scholarship for a proposal to increase partnerships between state
universities and Head Start centers that would help more Head
Start teachers complete undergraduate degrees. He used statistics
Showing that only 26 percent of Head Start teachers had completed
undergraduate programs. While at W&L, Birdwhistell researched
Head Start programs in the Roanoke Valley and co-founded
Students for xcellence through Education (SEE), which orga-

niz Z
ed tutoring Opportunities and enrichment days at local schools.

BIRDWHISTELL "01, A YOUNG MAN WITH A PASSION FOR EDUCATION REFORM,

50 AMERICANS—AND THE ONLY STUDENT IN VIRGINIA—SELECTED FOR

ITS INAUGURAL YEAR.

Politics professor Ken Ruscio ’76, who encouraged Birdwhistell
to apply for the ‘Truman and Gates scholarships as his advisor for his
public policy major, added, “Dan is ambitious, but it’s not a selfish
ambition. He is very concerned about the quality of education
offered to poor people. During his time at W&L, he has improved
his ability to solve this problem with a double major in psycholo-
gy—to understand the process of learning—and public policy—to
understand the political and economic worlds. He likes to express
opinions and be challenged by others in class; he is never afraid to
jump into the fray of debate.”

Birdwhistell admits that he was fortunate to have professors at
W&L who challenged his ideas of learning and education. He came
to the school planning to go straight into educational policy. “W&L
opened up everything else that’s out there—the need to teach, the
need to learn, [to question] what makes teaching work,” said
Birdwhistell, who hopes one day to open a charter school.

University Registrar Scott Dittman said Birdwhistell, who was
on the development committee for Web registration his freshman
year, is the closest thing to a Renaissance man he knows. “He’s all
over the board—he has trouble registering on time, but then does a
fascinating honors thesis on “lhe Effects of Stress on Creativity in
Middle School and High School Students.’ ”

While at W&L, Birdwhistell volunteered for the Shepherd
Poverty Program, edited Avve/, the student literary magazine, served
as president of his class and sang with the gospel group, Joyful
Noise. He even taught himself black-and-white photography a
few years ago, exhibiting his work, “Southeastern Wanderings” in
downtown Lexington.

At Cambridge, Birdwhistell plans to consider the role of educa-
tion in alleviating poverty in various European democracies. “I have
done a lot of practical work, but I haven’t had much education his-
tory or philosophy. I want to see how other countries deal with
issues of responsibility and obligation as it pertains to early com-
pensatory education programs,” he said.

“But,” he added, “while I am very excited about studying at
Cambridge, I’m also looking forward to wandering around Europe,

journal and camera in hand.” ¢

 

 

REVOIR

PROFESSOR:

“Everyone who remembers his own educational experience remembers it -T- fede
not methods and techniques,” wrote Sidney Hook in Education for Modern Man.

At no institution is this more true, perhaps, than at Washington and Lee.

THE UNIVERSITY IS ON THE CUSP
of a major transition. Over the next decade, 40
percent of the faculty revered by yesterday’s
and today’s students, will retire. ‘his year we
bid farewell to 11 men—the largest “class” of
retirees ever—who have made their mark on
thousands of young minds in the classrooms,
on the playing fields and during travels abroad.

‘They are much more than professors, they

are mentors, legends and, above all, friends.

ee ee | RE SIRE BO RS ices Cou eo Tue ae es Oleic.” eat

      

nts See as
alee: Cos
aad he gl ; oehe :

a . -
wake Eg OS Vee

 

.

eee Nala a

 

Edgar “Ed” W. Spencer '53, Ph.D.

RUTH PARMLY PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY
1957
Since he graduated from Washington and Lee in 1953, Ed Spencer
always has found a new mountain to climb. After he received his doc-
torate from Columbia University, Spencer returned to Lexington to
teach geology and encourage hundreds of students to find mountains
of their own.

‘The introduction of Spring ‘Term in 1970 opened many doors for
Spencer and his students, as it gave them the opportunity not only to
explore the mountains of Rockbridge County but also systems in the
Appalachians, the Southwest and beyond, even overseas. His contri-
butions extend beyond the classroom to the community. A recent
achievement is a new set of geological maps of the Buena Vista and
Glasgow areas, published by the Virginia Division of Mineral Resources.

Bob Root ’70 fondly remembers traveling with Spencer to interest-
ing places, as well as pleasant visits to his home. Root began his studies
at W&L in pre-med, but changed his major to geology his junior year
and found a career as a hydrogeologist for CH2M Hill in Herndon, Va.

“Ed’s evenness, integrity, passion, experience and complete
mastery of the subject matter instilled in me a confidence that I was
getting a good education,” says Root. “He provided me a role model,
which I hold in high regard to this day. In fact, he contributed great-
ly to my developing a love of the outdoors that has grown over the
years and has led me into the environmental field in a full-time way.”

Spencer took his last group of students on a trip of a lifetime last
spring. During the three-week field study in Europe, the group stud-
ied the Pyrenees mountain range, spanning the French and Spanish
border, under the guidance of a native geologist on the Spanish side
of and a prominent French geologist on the other.

Although his days in the classroom have ended, Spencer plans to
continue research and writing in geology. And true to form, he says he
will keep looking to see what’s on the other side of the mountain.

Leonard “Len” E. Jarrard, Ph.D.

ROBERT LEE TELFORD PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY
1959-66, 1971

Pennsylvania and Virginia played tug-of-war over Len Jarrard early in

his career, but fortunately for Washington and Lee, Virginia won the
game. Jarrard came to Lexington in 1959 after completing his doctor-
ate at the Carnegie Institute of ‘Technology in Pittsburgh. He
returned to Pennsylvania to teach at Carnegie Mellon University in
1966, but came back to W&L for good four years later to head the
psychology department. Jarrard served as department head until
1991, when he started the University’s neuroscience program.

One of his greatest joys as a professor has been exposing students
to the discipline by teaching the intro course, “Brain and Behavior.”
He found most have little interest at the beginning of the course but
usually are fascinated by the end.

Julie Markham °98 attributes Jarrard’s success in the classroom to
his patience and passion for working with students and his field of
interest. “My appreciation for Ph.D Jarrard has grown as I’ve contin-
ued my work in psychology, says Markham, who is pursuing graduate
studies at the University of Illinois Urbanna Champaign. “He gets an
amazing amount of research done with very little staff, and his tech-
nique is revered by scientists around the world.”

Like Markham, former student Jim Becker 75, Ph.D., pursued a
career in psychology and is a professor in the neuropsychology
research program at the University of Pittsburgh. Jarrard’s impact on
Becker in the classroom was great, as was the time they spent togeth-
er sharing a meal or a walk in the woods.

“From Len I learned that any meal tastes better sitting in a chait
on the side of a mountain,” says Becker. “I got to see Lexington in
the summer and learn about a whole part of life in the South that you
can’t experience during the school year.”

 

 

Washington and Big a a A ok i Mm AG, AY ES 2 REI

 

 

PROFESSOR OF ANCIENT LANGUAGES
1962

After teaching for two years at the University of North Carolina,

Chapel Hill, Herman ‘laylor came to a W&L and to a very different
atmosphere. ‘The opportunity to teach at a small university among a
close-knit body of professors and students has suited him well.

While W&L remains small compared to the UNCs of the world,
it has grown quite a bit since ‘Laylor began instilling students with the
rudiments of ancient languages. He recalls fondly the feel of the
University in the ‘60s and *70s, when he seemed to know almost all
of the faculty members—including Law School professors—and
many of the students. ‘lhe transfer of books from the old library to
the new Leyburn Library on Jan. 10, 1979, is another favorite mem-
ory. That day, 1,700 students, faculty, staff and townspeople hauled
books in shopping bags to the new library. Volunteers wearing “I
Moved It” ‘T-shirts celebrated their accomplishments at a dance in
the old library that evening.

Joe Small '69 remembers studying with Taylor and _ playing
Frisbee with him on the Front Lawn.

“Herman ‘laylor is a gifted and wonderful teacher,” explains
Small, who still reads Latin and Greek and maintains a love of Roman
history when he’s not practicing law in Washington. “He has a great
ability to simplify and state things clearly, and his greatest gift to the
students was to train us to think.”

Bruce Rider ’66 took Latin as a freshman to avoid taking math. A few
years later he had ‘Taylor for a Greek course he needed as a prerequl-
site for Princeton Seminary. He remembers translating only one
Phrase with accuracy th

at entire year, but it was rewarded with a smile
from laylor, as

at last he found an understanding of the language.

; I have oy ed this man for more than 40 years because he took me
Seriously and so \

me and everyone,

anted to share what he knew about language with
he says. Rider currently uses language as a colum-
nist » vy ~ r ’ ‘yy . i

for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram in Texas.

 

PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY
1963

Future generations of W&L students new to the field of chemistry
might not get to know Brown Goehring personally, but they will ben-
efit from his knowledge, descriptive words and phrases, techniques
and teaching materials that have become educational heritages of the
chemistry department.

Elizabeth Cox °97 knows firsthand the impression Goehring
makes on his students and the clarity he brings to such a complex
subject. Now a chemistry instructor at W&L, Cox has seen how
much time Goehring spent reworking the phrasing and organization
of his handouts, lecture notes and lab manuals.

“I can attest to the fact that each word on a page is chosen only
after very careful consideration of how best to convey meaning to stu-
dents,” says Cox. “I can also attest to the potency of these descrip-
tions, because some of the same descriptions I remember hearing and
writing down in my notebook freshman year. ‘hey are the same ones
I hear current students discussing in my office after they have com-
pleted the general chemistry course.”

Introducing students to chemistry has been one of Goehring’s
loves as a professor. He also was a genuine fan of the team-teaching
approach his department uses, as he believes such interplay among
his colleagues in selecting, planning and presenting material trans-
lates into closer relationships between students and faculty both
inside and outside the classroom.

Some of his extracurricular pursuits included mentoring more
than 700 Phi Beta Kappa students, a stamp collection and musical
performances. He has been seen in a sequence of operettas, commu-

nity religious cantatas and other campus musicals.

 

 

PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
1964
Part of being a good educator, John Evans believes, is encouraging
the growth of the whole student—mind, body and spirit. Many a les-
son was learned from him in Payne Hall, but also on the squash court
and at dinners in his home.

Evans came to W&L in 1964, fresh out of Yale’s graduate pro-
gram. He introduced students to Chaucer, Shakespeare and Milton,
as well as literature from the Restoration and 18th century, and was
renowned for the many student trips he led to England. He served as
an adviser to several fraternities, including KA and Phi Delt, and nur-
tured many Fulbright and Rhodes applicants. In Doremus Gym, he
taught both undergraduates and law students the game of squash and
the importance of good sportsmanship.

William Sledge 67, Ph.D., M.D., a professor of psychiatry at Yale
School of Medicine, attests to Evans’ devotion to his students, adding
that he was one of many in the English department and throughout
the University who cared deeply about the person he was becoming.

Brooks Fischer °97 is also grateful for Evans’ guidance. “John
Evans represents in my mind all that is good about our University,”
he says. “He brought to the classroom a mastery and a love of litera-
ture that turned Payne Hall into a special place of learning. Just as
important, John took the initiative in shaping my mind in other areas,
too.” As Fischer's advisor, Evans encouraged him to study art history.

“Professor [George] Bent opened my eyes to the treasures of van
Eck, Brueghel and Diirer, but John dropped me on the front steps of
duPont Hall,” says Fischer. “I’m very grateful that he took an inter-
est in my complete education, rather than concentrating solely on my
work as an English major.” Fischer currently works for a software
company in Atlanta, though he converses regularly with Evans about
art and literature.

Lured by the theater, concerts and the opera, Evans and his
wife will move to the Washington area. He is looking forward to the
cultural landscape of the nation’s capital, but will miss the bonds
with his students.

PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
1964

Another new face to Payne Hall in the fall of 1964 was George Ray,

who focused his coursework on early British literature, Shakespeare
and drama. He has shared his wit and wisdom with students for 37
years and has had as much impact on students as the Bard himself.

“When I took George’s 200-level Shakespeare class my sopho-
more year, | knew I had hit pay dirt,” says Matt Hansen 94, who's —
adopted Ray’s performative style of teaching as an English instructor
at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, where he also pursues a
Ph.D. “The pace of things was tough, the reading demanding,
but the discussions and ham-acting sessions endlessly valuable,
illuminating and enlightening.”

Ray’s reputation as a tough grader earned him the nickname
“Sting Ray,” which evolved to “Death Ray” in the post-Star Wars era.
Ray took no offense at the moniker and subtly reminded students of
it from time to time, lest it fall entirely out of use.

‘Ted Blain °74 says he never liked Ray’s nickname, because he
didn’t want to mislead others into thinking that he was too demand-
ing or unfair.

“He was a great teacher for all the right reasons,” says Blain, an
English instructor at Woodberry Forest School in Virginia. “He held
us to very high standards, expected us to meet them after showing us
how to do so, and did not hesitate to use the entire grading scale to
assess his students’ work fairly.”

Blain’s special memories of his professor go beyond Payne Hall;
he was one of many students who studied in London with Ray.

“Whether entertaining at the house he rented in England,
gathering a group around the table at his home on Sellers Avenue OF
sitting with an interval pint on the outdoor terrace of the Royal
Shakespeare Theatre, George has always been a generous and
hilarious host,” says Blain.

 

> . Ey
Washington ead uv & om Ay wU MAN I Mi An G A‘“Z? 1° Ne I

 

 

W&Ls biology

has packed aw

lecture on phi '

papered the wal

enthusiasm fo!

relationships wit

Nye joined

l niversity ot K

hiring of the first '

was a staunch s!

faculty. Nye tau

of medicine a

Award for teachi

Cliff Kern ”
lessons he learn
friend.

“Tom’s insi
needed and to
Louisiana. “He
tage of them. a:
tO Overcome the

Kern fond
‘Term ecolog,
tures and after
recognizing and

“Tom tau
have noticed \

reflected in his

©veryone mart

Nye, COO.

 

 

=
%

ie S

oe
bY sae
; we

$23

aS Pa bf
Se sta hes

he,
a

FESSOR OF BIOLOGY

rtment won't be as colorful this year; lom Nye
rainbow suspenders he’s worn each fall for his

nthesis as well as the photos of students that
is office. ‘The suspenders are symbolic of Nye’s
ing; the photos, the importance he places on
lents.

V&L in 1966 as a newly minted Ph.D. from the
ky. During his career at W&L, he oversaw the
women faculty members in the department and
rter of increasing the diversity of students and
ourses in general biology, botany and the history
ently was selected by students for the Pusey

xcellence.

is one of Nye’s first students. He has valued the

ym the then-junior professor and now long-time

to people enabled him to see what his students

ide it,” says Kern, a biomedical consultant in
yed their strengths and helped them take advan-

understood their weaknesses and helped them

ils slogging through bogs with Nye in his Spring

hich he taught for nearly 15 years. ‘Uhrough lec-

tield trips, Nye demonstrated the importance of

reciating relationships in nature.
how to see the beauty in things we would never
t his vision,” explains Kern. “This same vision ts

ionships with people. No one is a stranger, and

ne ec logy course as one of his favorites. He also

 

 

‘They are done with classes and have packed up their

offices, yet their names will live on at Washington and Lee
University forever.

‘Lom Nye, professor of biology, and John M. Evans, pro-
fessor of English, were honored by alumni and friends who
endowed funds in their names. As a tribute to their distin-
guished careers as teachers and mentors, alumni established
these endowments to benefit future students.

‘The Thomas G. Nye Field Biology Research Fund has
reached the $25,000 mark. Similar to the R.E. Lee summer
research fellowships, this endowment will be used to finance
a student’s field research in biology. “This is a living testi-
mony to someone many students, past and present, consider
to be the soul of the biology department,” said Larry Hurd,
head of the biology department.

‘The John M. Evans Endowment for International Study
has reached $323,800. Established in appreciation for his
commitment to teaching, his role as a mentor and friend, pro-
ceeds from the endowment will offset student expenses
related to international study programs, including summer

study and overseas internships.

enjoyed introducing students to his discipline in the general biology
course and enticing those who were uncertain about their futures to
turn into biologists.

“All W&L students are inquisitive, but in order for that curiosity
to flourish, it must be cultivated,” says Ramona Franks Hagmaier °93,
manager of a small business in Murfreesboro, ‘Tenn. “Dr. Nye helped
spark the love of learning in students by motivating us to be enthusi-
astic participants in his classes. ‘lo me, he was both a father figure and

a superb professor.”

 

 

JAMES P. MOREFIELD PROFESSOR OF LAW
1967

Uncas McThenia was not a newcomer to Lexington when he joined

the Law School faculty in 1967. The former football player and geol-
ogy major graduated from W&L in 1958 and returned to pursue a law
degree, which he earned in 1963. The next four years gave him the
opportunity to practice law in Northern Virginia before his former law
professor and former University President Robert Huntley °50, °57L
recruited him for the classroom.

Huntley knew a good thing when he saw it, as have many stu-
dents who benefited from the 29 courses McThenia taught during his
tenure at the Law School. More recently his focus has been on con-
tracts and remedies, but no matter what topic he teaches, his students
value his ability to listen and show compassion to everyone he meets.

Barbara Jane League "92, 95L and Megan Fairlie °96L fondly
recalled some of his more endearing traits: his thick Southern accent,
the way he scratches his head and his inability to pronounce certain
names correctly no matter how hard he tries.

“Tales about the cut-throat world of law schools are legion, but at
W&L we were blessed to share in an exemption from that,” says
League, an attorney with a Portland, Ore., firm. Law school was made
more bearable thanks in part to McThenia’s hospitality and
Wednesday night suppers, she added. “The suppers were free thera-
py and an invaluable and much-needed asset for any law student.”

League and Fairlie, counsel to a New York state senator in
Albany, say McThenia’s open-door policy in Lewis Hall and on Lee
Avenue exposed his students to the importance of genuinely caring
for people. “We saw that a good colleague is not just one who
exchanges a cordial greeting in the hall, but one who has a place for
you in his life whenever you need it,” says League.

 

PROFESSOR OF JOURNALISM
AND MASS COMMUNICATIONS
1969

When classes resume in the fall, the Journalism Department won't

quite be the same. Reid Hall will be closed for renovations. But more
than their campus home, students will miss the presence and wisdom
of Ron MacDonald.

MacDonald came to W&L in 1969 following a 13-year career at
WDBJ Channel 7 in Roanoke. Teaching classes like beginning |
reporting, broadcast newswriting, electronic media regulation and
ethics, the veteran newsman has educated quite a few students.
WDBJ’s loss has been repayed time and again in newsrooms ACTOSS |
the country.

Sharing his expertise in broadcast newswriting, MacDonald’s
favorite spot on many an afternoon was Reid Hall’s writing lab, where
he enjoyed working closely with his students. MacDonald’s rules of
journalism were simple: Write clear, concise sentences; attribute your ~
information; never let opinion get in the way of the facts, and don’t |
stop digging for the truth. These are followed daily by W&L journal-
ists like ‘Tom Mattesky °74, a deputy bureau chief with CBS News in
Washington.

“A lot of what I learned in Ron’s reporting classes still guides me
today,” says Mattesky. “That solid advice has served me very well for
more than a quarter century in journalism, and for that Ill always be
grateful to Ron.”

Cecily ‘Tynan Badger ’91 agrees. Now a meteorologist and host at
WPVI-TYV, Philadelphia’s ABC affiliate, Badger values the impact
MacDonald’s teaching has had on her career.

“In the age of flash-and-trash television and the drive for ratings
at all costs, the lessons I learned in Reid Hall are with me each and
every day,” says Badger. “Ron taught me the value of being genuine,
on camera as well as off. ‘The Honor System holds true in television,
as well. If you lie to viewers, they will know.”

 

 

 

 

Bruce H. Herrick, Ph.D.

rr
esceeeeveee?

JOHN F. HENDON PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS
LIS!
In 1980, W&L lured Bruce Herrick from a 16-year career at UCLA
to head its economics department. One of the attractions was his
expertise on the economics of low-income countries. He’s lived and
lectured in a number of South and Central American countries and
has served as a consultant to USAID and to the World Bank.

Herrick is proud of the fact that all members of the economics
department teach their first course in principles of economics. ‘The
largest course on campus, it regularly enrolls three out of four stu-
dents, extending its reach far beyond the Williams School. Herrick
says the relative magnitude of this extension of economic literacy has
provided him with considerable satisfaction.

Peter Burke °88, an attorney in Birmingham, Ala., signed up for
the intro course as a sophomore in order to get his core curriculum
requirements out of the way. Six weeks into the class, Herrick invit-
ed his students and their parents to dinner at his home during Parents
Weekend.

“That dinner was the first time I ever tried raw oysters, and much
like economics, | developed an affinity for both,” says Burke, who
eventually double majored in history and economics.

Fellow classmate Gregg Kettles ’88 found Herrick to be one of
the best professors he had at W&L. He learned from Herrick that
economics is more than graphs and models, it’s a tool for helping real
people solve real problems.

“Reflecting on Herrick now is a bit like thinking about your par-

ents ate bi . : ; . . ”
after you’ve grown up and had children of your own,” says

Kettles. w Ces ie
ttles, who teaches law at Mississippi College. “Bruce Herrick is
wha "Ry : 2 :
tW&L would have all its professors be like and what I, now a
Professor myself, strive to be.”

 

PROFESSOR OF LAW
198U

After practicing law in North Carolina, Bill Geimer joined the faculty

at Washington and Lee in 1980 to share his experience in the class-
room. His academic focus was on civil procedure, juvenile law, and
criminal law procedure and ethical problems, and his style was very
hands-on.

Geimer’s legacy to the Law School is the Virginia Capital Case
Clearinghouse (VC3), which uses students to conduct research, pre-
pare motions and support attorneys whose clients are facing the death
penalty. Another facet of the Clearinghouse is the biannual Capifa/
Defense Journal, read by members of both the bench and the bar.

When Geimer started the program he had nine students; by the
time he turned it over to Professor Roger Groot, 60 students applied
for eight slots. ‘lo honor Geimer’s dedication to the program and the
Law School, VC3 annually honors an outstanding capital defense
attorney with an award that bears his name.

“Bill has such a regard for the least among us, and he encouraged
me to practice that way,” says Roberta Bondurant ’86L, who has a
general law practice in Bent Mountain, Va. “He inspired me to go find
out just how my clients lived. Better understanding their hardships
really motivates you to find a satisfactory solution for them.”

Geimer’s days of making a difference are far from over. Within
days of completing his last semester at W&L, he was sitting in a class-
room himself. Geimer now lives in British Columbia, where he is
preparing for Canada’s equivalent of the bar. He will reflect fondly on
his teaching career, but he is excited about his new home and the

Opportunity to practice again. 4

To read complete faculty citations, go to

www.wlu.edu/faculty_citations.htm

 

 

A

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE GRADUATES MAKE UP ALMOST 10 PERCENT OF THE 65-MEMBER FEDEX LEGAL TEAM IN MEMPHIS, TENN. FROM LEFT: PAUL JONES’
MICHAEL OEHMLER ’94L, JOHN MAXWELL ’89 AND RICHARD ROBERTS ’91L. MISSING FROM THE PHOTO ARE JEFF KELSEY ’89, ’92L AND ED KLANK

WL, grads on the kedk:x legal team gtve wings to transportation law. MATT JENNINGS °93

 

 

‘s native Fred Smith launched a fledgling delivery company in 1973, few anticipated the rise of a

“When Memph

§20 billion enterprise that would invent the concept of guaranteed overnight delivery, add a new verb to the

— ltural lexicon and change the way people think about the possibilities of a truly global economy.
cu

nce its explosion on the commercial transportation scene, Federal Express has come to dominate the industry,

Si
arly 5 million shipments to 211 countries every business day. With this stature comes a host of legal issues

delivering ne

revolving around both domestic and international law. Rather than contract with outside law firms, FedEx has

 

chosen to assemble a powerful legal team of its own. Spread out among a holding company and five subsidiaries,
the FedEx attorneys have diverse specialties, yet work toward a common goal of advancing and protecting a
F company that has come to symbolize the network economy.

Washington and Lee graduates represent nearly 10 percent of the Fed Ex legal team. ‘Their individual experiences

vary, yet their collective work goes a long way toward explaining—and securing—the FedEx model of success.

ie a

Growing up in the Memphis, Tenn., bedroom community of family and colleagues in search of legal opportunities in his

Collierville, Jeff Kelsey °89, 92L never imagined he would return native state. Ironically, the one place where he had no con-
home one day to work for the company that, with apologies to nection was Federal Express.
Elvis, put his hometown on the global map. “TI wrote a letter that closed with a ‘Fred Smith/local boy
Even though his father, Bill, spent a career working as a makes good’ joke,” Kelsey says. “I had no idea how they
regional sales manager for the Flying Tigers, a cargo airline out- would take it. I guess they could have seen it as really
fit acquired by FedEx in 1989, Kelsey had other ambitions, cheesy and tossed it in the trash.”
other dreams. After graduating from Washington and Lee, he Instead, it caught someone’s eye. ‘Three days later, Kelsey
moved to Birmingham, Ala., and settled into a financially got a call from one of the senior attorneys at FedEx and, after a
rewarding, yet emotionally draining life as an associate in a top round of interviews, the Kelsey family was bound for ‘lennessee.
law firm. At the time, it seemed pigs would fly before Since his arrival in the fall of 1997, Kelsey has been a member
‘aNsportation issues would play a major role in his life. of the litigation team for FedEx Express, one of the five sub-
After a few years, Kelsey switched firms and gradually began sidiaries (along with FedEx Ground, FedEx Freight, FedEx

to CO = sd . ‘ ‘ . ° . . r % T
Progress toward making partner. In 1994, he married Heather Custom Critical and FedEx Trade Networks) that operates under
Her * « "oe ‘ ~ . . . . . . ‘ ry. . . ™
fon; a year later, Caleb (the first of two children) was born. the giant holding company, FedEx Corp. ‘The FedEx Express

But the ste : ares ‘
t the steady grind of logging billable hours began to wear litigation team, 20 attorneys with a support staff of 40, handles

on him. ; es ay ; ; ee ae
m, and his mind and ambitions wandered. Perhaps returning cases in three main areas: commercial litigation (mainly con-
to Me . : , ; a ee eee eee
€mphis wouldn’t be such a bad idea after all, Kelsey thought. tract cases), employment litigation and cargo litigation.

He beo: ‘
“San to put feelers out, tapping his network of friends, Cargo, of course, reaches to the core of a company that

 

" Washington aud ene EE hie as baad ma ee. wre oe es

guarantees “absolutely, positively” to deliver a package on time,
usually overnight. Just last December, the company transported
two giant pandas from Sichuan Province China to the
Smithsonian Institute’s National Zoo in Washington (a trip involv-
ing an MD-11 jet, a fleet of trucks and a wealth of logistical
support). Imagine the angst. What if something had happened

to either ‘Tian Tian or Mei Xiang
in flight? “Though most cargo cases
do not carry nearly so high a profile,
class-action lawsuits involving
valuable cargo can yield extraordi-
narily high damages. Kelsey, now
managing director of litigation, repre-
sents the world’s largest transporta-
tion company in court in such
matters.

“We're pretty vigorous about
asserting ourselves,” Kelsey says.
“We defend cases well and have the
opportunity to become very hands-
on. I take my own depositions; |
argue my own summary judgments.
I probably wouldn’t have taken the
job if this hadn’t been the case.”

Not all cases go to court, settle-
ment often being the most practical
resolution of a dispute. A few years
ago, Kelsey was working on a case
involving the transport of 1,200
animals on a 747 FedEx charter
flight bound from the United States
to the Philippines. En route, a small
percentage of the animals died.
An international treaty states that
damages can be calculated per
pound, and these creatures were
rather heavy. The cargo that day?
Pigs, which, Kelsey found out, can
fly after all.

Michael Oehmler ’94L could
care less about flying pigs unless
they are FedEx employees chal-

lenging their rights to benefits.

Oehmler is a litigator in the employee litigation division, where
he handles lawsuits filed by current and former employees over
benefits, specifically disability benefits.

He admits that this puts him in an awkward position

sometimes: “the corporate bad guy swooping in to deny someone

The W&L network
proves itself again.
Not only does the
campus connection
foster collegiality
among this group of

Federal Express
attorneys, it’s also
handy for hiring.
Just last year, Jeff

Kelsey '89, '92L lured
Richard Roberts '9IL
away from Armstrong

Allen, one of the
oldest and largest
law firms in the
Mid-South, to join

the commercial

litigation team.

Jones, too, came to FedEx via private practice, but he

benefits.” But more often than not, the general FedEx Populac
realizes he has a job to do, just like everyone else,
lot of support when people realize your purpose is to defend ¢

company against baseless claims,” Oehmler says. “People have -
fiduciary duty to adhere to the terms of our benefit plan. As
lawyer for the [company’s benefits] plan, I think of myself as

company,” echoes Paul Jones *73, lead counsel in the FedEx

Express labor relations division.

more invested than either Kelsey or Oechmler. Jones was a partne

for 15 years at an Adianta law firm before signing on with Feder

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   

“You do get

representative for all the participants _
We make a really strong effort
apply terms of the plan equally ;
fairly to everybody, while weeding
out invalid claims that are not payat

A
;

under the plan’s terms.”
Oehmler is FedEx’s sole benefit
litigator, handling between 25 to
cases at any given time. He says ji
difficult to pinpoint the number 4
cases that go to litigation, though .
does say that the company’s benef |
review committee examines, on ave
age, five benefits claims a week.
Like Kelsey, Oehmler worked
private practice before joinin
FedEx, and the two share si
views on the advantages of workir
for one corporation. “I had grow
tired of being a jack-of-all-trade
master of none,” Oehmler explair
By relying on in-house attorney
FedEx allows its lawyers “to a
litigate,” Oehmler says, “rather the
supervise or manage litigation.”
David Millon, associate dean of th
School of Law, says companies li

     
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 

Federal Express are a very attré
interactive professional alternatives fe
attorneys, precisely for the reason:
Oehmler describes. Plus, Millon sé
“You work much more closely wit
the client right away, and over ti
you develop a much closer relatior
ship than an outside lawyer would.”

“Which gives you a more globe
outlook as it relates to that particulat

 

Washington

and bis EE Aes mts |

M

 

 

1997. He took a pay cut, and traded the thriving

express in
cene of Atlanta (
Blues. Still, he says, the upside of working for

al a city he loves and misses) for the more
social >
jaid-back Cty O
r internat ynal c
-ivities all over the world,” vastly outweighs any

orporation, “a client who is engaged in
a majo .
4 broad range of ac
ides. “I'm able to practice /aw,” Jones says. “At the end
downsides. | :

- ach work day, I'm not worried about totaling up hours. I
of eae

just have a job CO do.

Jones has
ing director of labor relations |
| savs with a mixture of deference and collegiality to

earned the admiration of John Maxwell ’89, manag-

aw. “Paul Jones is a quality, honest

* \Maxwel

guy.
ars his senior, who is also a close friend and peer.

a man 16 ye
\Maxwell came Co FedEx in 1994 and immediately walked into

on-going negotiations with the Airline Pilots Association over a
g

collective b
labor-relations lawyer's vocabulary is “strike,” and in the case of

argaining agreement. One of the worst words in a

Federal Express and its fleet of 662 aircraft, a pilots’ strike could
mean dire consequences for the transportation company.
“Transportation companies keep business by establishing
relationships, and that means being reliable,” Maxwell explains.
“The fundamental difference between Federal Express and a
commercial airline is this: If you have a favorite commercial airline
(due to convenience, amenities, etc.), and it is hampered by a
strike, you'll seek an alternative. But more likely than not, you'll
return to your favorite airline when it is fully operational again. A
package, however, doesn’t care how it is flown across the country
as long as it gets there on time. So if Federal Express becomes
unreliable (due to a strike), you'll find someone else to deliver
your package, and if they do a good job, you'll stay with them.
The business in the cargo industry doesn’t come back like it does

in the passenger business.”

Therefore, the pressure to hammer out a collective bargaining
agreement with the main domestic union capable of damaging
the company’s prospects was great. The journey to a ratified
agreement followed an arduous path over a five-year period, during
which time Maxwell served on various negotiating and writing
committees. (Maxwell was the lead writer in committee, where
he manned the keyboard while colleagues watched and read on
five computer monitors. “Obviously, everyone had input, but you
gain a certain advantage to pushing your thoughts through when
you're the one at the controls,” he chuckles. Once the agreement
was ratified, Maxwell was tapped to administer the contract,
a rewarding assignment for one who had invested so much
time and energy during the negotiations.

Maxwell is also the “pilot guy.” Ifa labor issue involves a pilot,
Maxwell gets the call. With a fleet of more than 600 planes,
that’s a lot of pilots.

The first time, Mike Oehmler “jump-seated” on a FedEx
plane (FedEx lawyers occasionally hitch rides on a cargo plane to
a court hearing or deposition), he found himself wishing for an
ejection seat. En route to Memphis during a nasty thunderstorm,
Oehmler’s plane rocked and shook (think Castaway without the
crash) as it made its approach to the airport. Just as Oehmler began
hyperventilating, he noticed the reserved, professional manner
of the pilots, which instantly put him at ease.

Jump-seating is just one of the many ways FedEx attorneys
immerse themselves in the culture of the express transportation
business. During peak shipping seasons, calls go out to the various
offices asking for volunteers to venture down to the hub, where
you may find a senior attorney standing side-by-side with a wage
laborer pushing packages down a conveyer belt.

After all, they must get there tomorrow.

 

You can ship a copy of Jules Vernes travel classic, Around the
World in Eighry Days, from New York City and have it arrive in
Perth, Australia, in less time than it took Phileas Fogg to travel
from Bombay to Calcutta.

‘To accommodate its global mission, FedEx maintains head-
{uarters in Hong Kong, Toronto, Brussels, Miami and, of course,
Memphis. Nai urally, travel goes with the job for the FedEx legal
team, often meaning transoceanic trips on last-minute notice.
In Carly June, Eddie Klank ’89, a senior attorney in

the : : eae :
holding mpany FedEx Corp., was called away to Asia

on a fact-finding mission involving the Asian transportation
market. A former officer in the Marine Corps and veteran of
the Gulf War, Klank, like many of his colleagues, enjoys the
opportunity to travel and cites the company’s global focus
as one of the advantages of being a FedEx employee.

“With business in 211 countries, the sun never sets on
Federal Express,” says Klank, who has traveled to Singapore,
Tokyo, Hong Kong and Paris since arriving in Memphis in
1998. Which brings to mind another children’s favorite
penned by one Dr. Seuss: OA, the Places You'll Go.

 

There was a lot of toe-tapping, hand-clapping and
singing along at the “Alumni Celebration 2001” out-
door concert on the Front Lawn Saturday, May 5.
Seven musical groups, featuring alumni, students and
other members of the Washington and Lee family,
entertained hundreds of reunion-goers beneath most-

ly clear skies. It was the culmination of a weekend

 

packed with special seminars, banquets, picnics, ath- ‘

letic events and Lee Chapel assemblies, which

+5)

—_
i eee

CHRIS EDWARDS ’99, Reunion Musicians FRED HARING °93 AND TH!

DRUNKEN FIDDLERS FRANKLIN COUNTY ALL-STAF

fi he Beat Generations
pe it's All in the Family

a es attracted more than 1,500 alumni, family and friends.

Warming up the crowd was Loose Change, ina

set of rhythm-and-blues and rockabilly tunes, led by

Burr Datz °75, Interfraternity Council adviser and

health educator. He was followed by student a cap-

pella groups, Southern Comfort and Jubilee, and the

student rock band, Smokestaxx. ‘Tom Jennings, direc-

ot Sl tor of Univ ersity dev elopment, slowed things down

ro _ a
aaa . ith . The D Ik Fiddl LOOSE CHANGE: BURR DATZ
id 70 ‘ .« . » » = - ‘ rc
SMOKESTAXX: again WIth an acoustic set. 1¢ rmunKen Fiadier©rs AND HARMONICA PLAYER

, . . . ; . TON
ALL-STUDENT BAND Josh Harvey ’00 and Chris Edwards "99, along with RAY COHEN OF LEXING

oc

 

 

 

—

ie Swope ‘| and Eric Wilson, assistant
Nata ic +

fessor of Es
ional Insh

yolish—added a little blarney

fit songs. Fred Haring "93 and
vith crac ;
E Franklin County All-Stars picked up the
hus “Te

ain with some uptown folk. ‘The concert
Oo

beat a

5.2 -yded when rain started
dat 5:30 P- id endec
started at >:

m. al

— 0. but nothing could dampen the
falling about |

nirits of Reunion celebrants. Other highlights:

sp
pistinguished Alumni Awards

Reno S. Harp I! 54, °56L retired in 1997

from a distinguished

winsel to Vireinia’s Judicial Inquiry and
coun:
Review Commissi wn (IRC). He was the archi-

rect of the Virginia Crate Bar Association’s

|.aw. founder of the

—
Section on Criminal
National Association of E: xtradition Officials and

of the International

served as chairman
Association of Game and Fish Commissioners.
For his service, he received the Virginia State
Bar Association’s Harry |. Carrico Profession-
alism Award, which honors those who have con-
eributed to the improvement of Virginia’s legal
system. His contributions to W&L are notable
as well. He has served as a law class agent for10

years and currently is vice chair of the Annual

25-year career as chief

Fund. He also chairs the W&L Law School
Breakfast at the Virginia State Bar Association’s

annual meeting in June.

J. Thomas Touchton ’60 has been manag-
ing partner of The Witt-Touchton Co., a private
investment firm in ‘Tampa, Fla., for nearly 30
years. But his commitment to community and
W&L is strong. He is founding director of the
Tampa Bay History Center, helping to make
the dream of a museum a reality and a center-
piece in the city’s cultural arts district. His
involvement earned him the prestigious D.B.

McKay Award. His generosity to W&L is just as

impressive. As a member of the Board of

‘Trustees, he provided invaluable leadership on
the issue of coeducation in the “80s and
Fraternity Renaissance, and he took on the role
of vice chair in the On the Shoulders of Giants
capital campaign, which ended in 1995. He
endowed a scholarship in honor of his parents,
and other gifts are recognized on the Honored

Benefactor’s Wall in Washington Hall.

Distinguished Young Alumni Award
James F. Kull 94 already had a distin-

guished record as a student when he collected

his diploma, magna cum laude. He was junior
class vice president, vice president of the
Executive Committee, a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and ODK and producer of W&Ls first
country music radio show. Since then, he has
received a law degree from the University of
‘Texas in Austin and joined the firm of Vinson
& Elkins in Dallas, earning the firm’s
“Outstanding Pro Bono Achievement Award”
and the Dallas Volunteer Attorney Program’s
“Outstanding New Pro Bono Achievement”
award. But Kull has not neglected his alma
mater. He serves as class agent, claiming for the
class of 94 the highest percentage of giving for

young alumni in the past five years.

Trophies

The class of 91 reclaimed the Reunion
Trophy for the largest number of attendees,
103. The classes of °51, °51L earned the
Reunion Bowl with the highest percentage of
attendees, 38 percent, as well as the John
Newton Thomas Annual Fund trophy for the
combined undergraduate and law classes with
the largest increase in Annual Fund giving in

their reunion year.

Reunion Cifts: Classes of '51, '51L Break Record

The classes of 51, °51L contributed a whopping $10.03 million,
the largest class gift ever recorded at W&L, which they present-
ed to a delighted President John Elrod at ceremonies in Lee

Chapel on Saturday, May 4. A portion of the gift will be used to

establish the ‘Thomas K. Wolfe
Jr. Lectures Endowment, a spe-
cial project.

Former University Rector
A. Steven Miles, a member of
the class gift steering commit-
tee, said, “We wanted to do
something special as a lasting
legacy from We

thought that a lecture series to

our class.
attract people of significance
Would add to the educational
experience at W&L. We also
Wanted to honor Tom. one of the
most

noteworthy figures in

Ame 1 c, . :
rican literature and someone we are fortunate to have in our

Class.

To re "
M Was totally flattered.

DELIGHTED PRESIDENT

lhere seems to be genuine excitement about this, and

JOHN W.

COURTESY CLASSES OF . th IS ee

ELROD

ACCEPTS THE LARGEST REUNION GIFT EVER

 

Other individual gifts from members of the classes of °51, ’51L
will be used toward previously endowed scholarships, professor-
ships and other University goals. Upton Beall was chair of the

reunion committee, and Jimmy Gallivan and ‘Ted Van Leer were

vice chairmen. Grover Outland
rallied the law class.

The class of °76 raised an
impressive $1,379,000 to create an
international scholarship fund,
purchase equipment for the new
fitness center and bolster the
Annual Fund. The class of ’76L
raised $309,000, of which a por-
tion will be used for the Andrew
McThenia (58, °63L)

Scholarship.

Law

Students also demonstrated
philanthropic support. ‘The class
of ’01 raised $6,000 in Annual

Fund pledges, with 72 percent class participation. ‘The class of *01L

raised $55,870 toward the renovation of classroom H., and it is the

largest commitment ever made by a graduating class.

 

 

New Members Fill Alumni Board Positions

The Alumni Board elected six new members during Reunion
Weekend, May 3-5. These officers will serve four-year terms.

Amy C. Balfour '89, '93L, of
Manhattan Beach, Calif., is pursu-
ing her writ-
ing and legal
careers. After
graduation
from Law
School and a
clerkship
with the
Henrico
County
Circuit Court in Virginia, she prac-
ticed with J. Ridgely Porter, III
‘73L in Norfolk and with her
father, Daniel 'T. Balfour °63, ’65L,
at Beale, Balfour, Davidson &
Etherington, PC. in Richmond.
She has served as treasurer, vice-
president and president of the
Richmond W&L Alumni Chap-
ter and is serving as co-class agent
for her law school class.

John C. Viahoplus '83, of New
York City, is a managing director
for Zurich
Capital Mar-
kets, the
structured
finance and
derivatives
arm of the
Zurich
Financial
Services
Group. He received a J.D. from
Harvard Law School and a doctor-
ate in legal philosophy from
Oxford University on a Rhodes
Scholarship. He has been active in
the W&L alumni admissions
interviewing process and _ local
charitable educational programs.

 

 

Barry O. Barlow ’'77, of Louisville,
Ky., is a senior financial advisor
with Merrill
Lynch. He
has served
W&L as
alumni chap-
ter vice presi-
dent and
president and
headed up
the alumni
admissions activities in Louisville.
Additionally, he currently serves
on the W&L Parents Council.
‘Iwo of his four children attend
WEL.

 

 

William Marcus Toles '92, '95L,
of Dallas, is an associate with the
law firm of
Stradley &
Wright PC.,
specializing
in litigation.
He has
served as a
class agent for
his law school
class and as a
member of the Dallas Alumni
Chapter board of directors. He also
is involved with Washington and
Lee alumni admissions activities,
such as interviewing prospective
students and attending local high
school college fairs.

David S. Makepeace '88, of
Raleigh, N.C., is business manager
of Medlin-
Davis Inc.
a large dry
cleaning com-
pany in
Raleigh.
Formerly, he
enjoyed a
career in com-
mercial bank-
ing. He has been president and a
board member of W&Ls Charlotte
Alumni Chapter as well as _presi-
dent of the Eastern North Carolina
Chapter. He has participated fre-
quently in Annual Fund drives and
served as co-chair of the 250th cele-
bration at Pinehurst, N.C.

 

 

Hugh L. Robinson Il ‘80, of
Lutherville, Md., is senior director
of commer-
cial client ser-
vices for Bay
National
Bank in
Baltimore.
He is chair of
the Episco-
‘2 pal Diocese
of Mary-
land’s Commission on Ministry.
For W&L, he is director of the
Baltimore Alumni Chapter. He
has served as chapter president,
organized the Clements Cup (the
chapter’s annual golf tournament),
and has served as chair of the
alumni admissions program.

 

O— 1925—o

Martin W. Spector
celebrated his 96th birthday in
June. He founded, owned and
operated Spec’s Music for 52
years, which he sold in 1998.
Spec’s stores, now owned by
‘Transrecord Entertainment Corp.,
can be found in Florida and Puerto
Rico. Spector lives in Coral
Gables, Fla.

O_ 1929 —_o>

Asa M. Janney

fondly remembers meeting class-
mate Lewis Powell ’29, °31L, for-
mer U.S. Supreme Court Justice.
He lives in Lincoln, Va.

O— 1932-2

Harry L. McCarthy

and his wife, Grace, have been
married for 59 years. He was prin-
cipal of five different schools in
Alleghany County, Va., before
joining the FBI in 1965 as a special
agent. His son, Harry II, graduated
from W&L in 1976. McCarthy
lives in Richmond.

OW 1934—o2>

Dr. Milton L. Harris

is in good health and enjoys keep-
ing up with W&L news. He
enjoyed meeting Charles Suter °33
and his daughter, Margaret, at the
Mississippi River docking area in
Baton Rouge on their way
upstream from New Orleans.
Harris resides in Baton Rouge, La.

OO 1935 —o©>

Francis B. Key

retired after 37 years as a mathe-
matics professor at the University
of Richmond.

Frederick Strong

is “hanging in there.” He plays
golf twice a week and sings with
the Beaufort Harbormasters chap-
ter of SPEBSQOSA in Burton, S.C.

“O19 36 —_©»
Albert J. Durante
and his wife, Lynn, celebrated
their 56th wedding anniversary
this year. They live in Flushing,

N.Y.

Edgar E. Eaton Jr.

is fully retired. He and his wife,
Helen, are in good health, living
near their oldest son in Georgia.

O19 38 — ©»
Lt. Cmdr. Vernon T.
Strickler Jr.
underwent open-heart surgery last

  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
    
  
  
    
  
   
  
 

August but recovery is on ¢
ule with the help of an ICD J
implantable Cardioverter deg
lator. His wife, Mildred, past a
in March after a long illness,
lives in Hampton, Va,

O—- 1939 _ =
Robert W. Hilton Jr,
was honored by W&Ls Sour
Ohio Chapter for his 60-plus _
of devoted and dedicated ¢ ic
More than 50 alumni and “nc
gathered at the home of B
Jamison 65 to celebrate the he
oree. Unfortunately, Hilton Was
and unable to attend: however,
enjoyed a videotape of the prese
tation, which included a Jer
from University President Ix
Elrod and a spirited rendition
“The Swing.” Hilton is known
“Mr. W&L” in Ohio and is both
Distinguished Alumnus and
recipient of the 250th Award.

“O_ 19 40 —&
C. Edward Blair |
visited Panama and Costa Rica vi
the Yorktown clipper and exper:
enced more wet beach landing
than on D-Day. He lives j
Longboat Key, Fla.

Michael P. Crocker
and his wife, Rosa, moved to
retirement center near Baltime
last summer. Unfortunately, he
been diagnosed with arter
dementia. While he has lost sor
of his memory, he retains his
ners and sense of humor. Anye
near Sykesville, Md., is weleor
to visit. !

Lt. Cmdr James P. Friste¢
and his wife, Valerie, moved
Sedona, Ariz.

Earl B. Morgan Jr.
doesn’t get to come back
Lexington as much as he used &
especially since the death of I
brother-in-law. He is sorry to
missed the last reunion and @
golf game with Ed Brown.
and Ed are the lone survivors ¢
the 40 golf team and would Ie
to challenge the current team ¢
‘01. Morgan lives in Fairfi
Conn.

OW 1941 —S

The Hon. Paul D. Brown
is looking forward to his OVE
reunion at Homecoming. He
extremely proud of his son, who
an astronaut due for an Orbdlt
space flight in the spring of Wwe
Brown lives in Washington, Va-

 

W

 

 

 

—

——

 

’ Sk et ' eee fo eee

bey attends D-Day Service

Cmdr. William B. Bagbey °38
was present at the dedication
of the national D-Day memo-
rial in Bedford, Va., on June 6.
He served as first chairman
D-Day

Memorial Foundation and

of the National
remains on board. He says
the foundation is deeply
indebted to Senator John
Warner °49 and _ Virginia
Delegate Lacey Putney °S0,
’57L. Bagbey considers this

tribute to the valor of allied

forces at Normandy to be one of the most beautiful ones in the

US. He lives in Roanoke.

james B. Snobbie

és still skiing, golfing, camping and
enjoying life in the mountains as
much as his age, 87, permits. He
lives in Snowmass Village, Colo.

Oo 1942 G»

John Barrie Jr.

spent an excellent week in the
Dominican Republic with Debbie
and Edgar Boyd °42 at the new
home of Ann and Hank Woods *42
in Casa de Campo. ‘| he three men
roomed together at the Beta

house. Barrie Laguna
Beach, Calif.

lives in

O— 1943 >?
Corneal B. Myers
practices law 30 hours a week. He
is building a new home at
Mountain Lake, a_ residential
gated development near Lake
Wales, Fla.
Dr. Lloyd H. Smith Jr.
received the
California at San | rancisco Medal,
the uNiversity’s most prestigious
annual honor. It is given to individ-
uals who have made outstanding
on contributions to the
_ — and whose efforts
goals and values of the
“ampus. Smith has b
of the Uc SF facult,

een a member
tor 36 vears.

<>

: — 1947 <>

ert A. Mosbacher
‘ec ge > 7

out ved the President’s Award for

’ Standing service to the M.D.

Anderson

University of ‘lexas

University of

Cancer Center in Houston.
Mosbacher, former U.S. Secretary
of Commerce, served 22 years on
the institution’s Board of Visitors,
twice taking the helm as chairman.
He also chaired Milestone &
Miracles, a record-setting event
that raised more than $10.2 million
for ‘The George and Barbara Bush
Endowment for Innovative Can-
cer Research. He lives in Houston.

Su. eae —<S>
Robert A. Totty Jr.
and his wife, Sonya, spent a won-
derful evening and day with
Charles ‘Treadgold °49 and _ his
wife, Evelyn, at their home at ‘The
Landing near Savannah, Ga. ‘The
‘Tottys live in Asheville, N.C.
OW 1950——>
William H. Harris
has been selling cars since 1952.
He lives in Memphis ‘Tenn.

Dr. J. Peter C. Muhlenberg
retired from pediatric medicine in
June 1999. In the past year he
served as president of the
Washington Society, always enjoy-
ing visits back to W&L. He lives in
Wyomissing, Pa.

Paul B. Root Jr.

welcomed visitors Horace Kelton

hospital volunteer work, make his
retirement days fly by.

OO 1951—<»
David D. Bien
and his wife Peggy spend four
months every year at their apart-
ment in Paris, France, for research
and rehabilitation. ‘The couple cel-
ebrated their 50th wedding

anniversary on July 28. The rest of

the year they live in Ann Arbor,
Mich.

Richard E. McMurren
began his 17th year as a dialysis
patient in May. He lives in
Newport News, Va.

Richard T. Pruitt

is proud of the strong ties his fami-
ly has to W&L. His father, Dr.
Samuel O. Pruitt *11, and three
brothers, Samuel Jr. °41, James *50,
William °50, all wore the blue and
white. Pruitt, who lives in
Anderson, N.C., sends greetings to
all his friends and classmates.

OO 1953 —<—»
The Rev. C. Scott May
had quadruple bypass surgery in
January, followed by a splendid
recovery. He lives in Atlanta.

OW 1954-2
Dr. Robert McCeehan
is director of the new distance
learning master’s degree program
at the Institute of United States

Studies, University of London. He
continues to appear frequently on
British television and radio to dis-
cuss American politics and foreign
policy.

O— 1956 —<”
Keith Rogers
spends several months in Montana
each year working with a fiction
writers’ group. He lives in Atlanta.

Richard A. Skolnik

has completed his 40th year as a
practicing attorney in Providence,
R.L, and, even though he is not
running as fast as he used to, he
remains strong.

Kingswood Sprott Jr.

and his wife, Clyde, spent four
days in Havana, Cuba, in March.
The trip was an eye-opening expe-
rience. He says that even though
poverty and decay are pervasive,
tourists are treated like royalty.
The couple live in Lakeland, Fla.

Dr. Hugh W. Stephens
retired at the end of May after 36
years as member of the Political
Science Department at University
of Houston. He plans to live in
Asheville, N.C.

O— 1957 —<—»
Donald S. Luria
actively avoids retirement by
keeping busy with his restaurant
business and community service.

Trustee Reunion

 

°50 and Norman Fischer °49. Root
lives in Erie, Pa.

John F. Wilhelm

enjoyed seeing old friends during
his 50th reunion last year. His four
daughters, six grandchildren and
one great-grandchild, along with

Five members of the class of 51, who celebrated their 50th reunion

on campus May 3-5, enjoyed an additional mini-reunion of their
own. They have served as members of the University’s Board of
Trustees. From left: Sam Hollis (1993-1999); ‘Tom Wolfe (1984-
1994): Steve Miles (1988-1997 and former rector); Jimmy Gallivan
(1984-1994), and ‘Ted VanLeer (1989-1998).

 

Cobble, Cobble

 

Dan H. Flournoy °64 (center) won first place at the National Wild

‘Turkey Federation Calling Contest at the Bass Pro Shops in Houston,

while his son John °99 (right) achieved third place. The Flounoys
obtained their turkey calling skills from “Old Pros,” John McDaniel ’64,
professor of anthropology, and Mason McGowin "65. It appears the stu-

dents are now better than the teachers.

Luria is on the national board of
directors for the Council of
Independent’ Restaurants of
America and the Metropolitan
‘Tucson Convention and _ Visitors
Bureau. He also serves on the
Mayor's Good Business Partner-
ship Program Committee. Apart
from his business, Luria is active in
the arts, recently elected to the
national board of the Museum
‘Trustee Association. As he is fortu-
nate to have all five of his grand-
children living in Tucson, he baby-
sits often.

“<O—_- 19 58 — ©»
Frederick J. Ramsay
retired in June 2000 as rector of St.
Andrew’s Episcopal Church in
Pasadena, Md., and moved to
Surprise, Ariz. He received the
2000 Bishop’s Award for Out-
standing Ordained Ministry.

“O—- 19 60 — ©»
Robert R. Feagan Ill
has been named managing partner
of Holland & Knight L.L.P. He is
a partner in the Chicago and
‘Tallahassee, Fla., offices of the law
firm. He lives in ‘Tallahassee.

OO 1961 — ©

J. Harvey Allen Jr.

is celebrating 100 years of the
Allen family’s representation
among the nationally recognized
major manufacturers in the com-
mercial and residential construc-
tion industries. He lives in Fort
Worth, ‘Texas.

O_ 1962 — ©»

James N. Applebaum

and his wife, Laurie Mufson, inau-
gurated a school exchange, leading
a group of Mercersburg Academy
students to Russia and the Centre
for the Education and Develop-
ment of Gifted Children in
Nizhniy Novogorod. ‘Two of the
couple’s students will attend W&L
this fall. The couple live in
Mercersburg, Pa.

Walfred B. Thulin Jr.

left Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.
after 31 years in loss prevention to
devote himself full time to
Fieldcrest Music (Fieldcrest
Music.com), dedicated to the
preservation and promotion of
bluegrass and acoustic music. He
lives in Richmond.

O_ 196 3 — ©»

J. Holmes Morrison

and his wife, Antoinette, plan to
attend an interim reunion orga-
nized by some °63 Phi Delts alum-
ni. The reunion, led by Robert
Mickle Miles Van Rensselaer °63,
‘66L, is in August at Bailey’s
Island, Maine.

“O—_ 196 4 —_ ©»

John H. Kirkley

taught English for eight years in
South Korea in the 1990s.
Recently he earned a master’s of
science in education from Univer-
sity of Bridgeport, Conn., and is
employed as the headmaster of
Philadelphia Christian Academy.

 

Jack C. Martin

was appointed chief technology
officer for Health Systems Design,
a Perot Systems company. He con-
tinues to reside in Lexington, Ky.,
with his wife of 36 years, Bonnie.

Dr. Robert A. Paddock

and his wife, Connie, have four
grandchildren and another on the
way. They live in Naperville, II.

“O__ 196 § —_©»

H. Daniel Jones III

is proud to announce that his son,
Homer Daniel Jones IV, will be a
member of the class of ’05 and the
third generation of Joneses to
become W&L gentlemen. While
Jones is a lawyer and money man-
ager with Salomon Smith Barney
in Washington, Danny has been
recruited to play W&L football.
Fellow classmate and road warrior,
Bill Jamison, will have a daughter
in the same class, which should
make Parents Weekend especially
enjoyable. Jones’ father, Homer D.
Jones *40 of Princeton, N.J., hopes
to see his grandson walk tall and
grow in the footsteps of Gen. Lee,
Dr. Gaines and Dean Gilliam.

“O__- 19 66 —_ —>»

E. Starke Sydnor

updated his “Colonnade Connec-
tions” directory entry to reflect his
retirement from Vulcan Materials
Co. He moved back home to
Lynchburg, Va., which will allow
more frequent visits to W&L. He
is mostly successful in dealing with
multiple sclerosis and has had no
difficulty occupying his new free
time. He especially enjoys his 2-
year-old granddaughters belonging
to son, Gar *89, in Winchester, Va.,
and to daughter, Beth, in
Birmingham, Ala. His son, Cas,
graduated from the College of
Charleston last May lives in
Charleston.

“O_ 19 69 — ©»

John A. Wolf

was inducted into the American
College of ‘Trial Lawyers. He is
president and managing director of
Ober/Kaler in Baltimore. He is
chair of the firm’s construction
group and represents participants
in construction and engineering
matters. He is admitted to practice
in all state and federal courts in
Maryland and the District of
Columbia, the United States
Courts of Appeals for the Third
and Fourth Circuits and the U. S.

 
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
    
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
    
    
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 

“O-_ 1971 —_ a
Calvert Ss. Whitehurst
is government affairs
the Washington office of Te
Inc. He acted in a prod ‘ol
The Taming of the Shrew at the |}
‘Theater of Alexandria, Va,

“O__ 1972 — ©
David D. Manson j
is director of the executive diy
of Garon Bonvalot of Paris, Fray
Garon Bonvalot is a leading ‘
sultancy in leadership
ment and human resources pp
agement.

William J. Modica

and Dr. Robert F. Stauffer 65
laborated on a research report
Roanoke County entitled
ments and Evidence in Suppor
Collocation for the VA Gas ¢
P-25 Pipeline.” The te
submitted to the State Corporar
Commission. Modica is an ep
ronmental consultant, wh
Stauffer teaches at Roane
College. Both live in the Roane
Valley and frequently attend eh
ter events.

John C. Tucker

and his company, Norfleet Pre:
New York City, made the t
tion from being a book produce
publishing books on its own.
company specializes in illustrat
books on architecture and phe
raphy, and its last two volume:
architecture were included in
New York Times’ year-end
the most noteworthy books p
lished in that genre.

OW 1974 —Sae

Bliss Y. Hicky
was promoted to presideny/CE
of Regions Bank in Cl
Ariz. He and his wife, Jan, ¢€
brated their 25th wedding 4
sary with a cruise to the Caribbe
Islands. ‘They visited with fe
classmate Dennis Gomez in 5
Juan, Puerto Rico. Their daugh
Mary Elizabeth, graduated f
Auburn University, while son,
is a sophomore at Ole Miss.

John R. Keeling Jr.
joined the National Fe
Processors Association as vice P®
ident of government aif
Keeling will lead NFPA’ legs
tive agenda addressing a ®
range of issues from approprae
and food safety to product labet
nutrition and emerging tec
gies. He lives in Arlington, Va.

 

\W a

Supreme Court. He lives in
Ruxton, Md.
l U M N I M a i A

 

 

y NG WARS eS ee ee Rees ee ee

CG»

—— { 97/7
walter D- Kelley Fr. :
ined Iroucman Sanders Mays &
C ntine | ._.P as a partner in the

ale a | 7
firm's liigation practice group. He
will practice in the firm’s Norfolk

ffice where he will concentrate
0 , °° .

yn business litigation, intellectual
:
property ligation and corporate
control disputes.

nev. Anthony G. Perry —
sarted a new church in
Thonotosassa, Fla. ‘honotosassa
is very rural and has one of the low-
est average INCOMES IN the country.
The church hopes to make a dif-
ference in the community. Perry
lives in Tampa, Fla.

Clayton W. Preston

received 2001 National American
Institute of Architecture and U.S.
Department of Housing and
Urban Development awards for
East Lake Commons in Atlanta.
Preston is an architect and found-
ing owner of Village Habitat
Design L.L.C. The project, which
he designed with colleagues, was
selected as an outstanding exam-
ple of mixed-use and mixed-
income development. ‘The award
fecognizes projects that improve

 

safety law, management systems
and toxic tort litigation. He is an
adjunct professor of environmental
law at Vanderbilt University.

OO 1983 —<—»
Evans S. Attwell
joined the corporate finance group
of Frost Bank, where he focuses on
middle-market merger and acqui-
sition advisory and equity private
management. He lives in Houston.

Scott S. Bond

was named senior vice president of
publishing and catalogue sales on
his 10th anniversary with the
Bulkley Dunton Publishing in
New York City. His wife, Patty, 1s
staying home with their four chil-
dren, Alexander, 7, Kathleen, 5, and
twins Natalie and Nicholas, 1 1/2.

OW 1984—-—<—»
Arthur A. DeCroof
currently resides in Utrecht, ‘The
Netherlands, where he is a senior
environmental consultant with
Grontmij Consultancy & Engi-
neering.

Clenn L. Kirschner
traveled to Kiev, Ukraine, on
behalf of the Department of

Come one, come all. ‘The Chicago and Adianta alumni chapters extend

#f invitation for the 6th annual Washington and

Lee University ( ‘hicago Cubs Wrigley Field
Rooftop Classic on Saturday, Sept. 8.

The first pitch between the Cubs and the
Adanta Braves will be thrown at 3:05 p.m. Central

me at Wrigley Field, Chicago, Ill. Fans will have

acess to the

Chicago skyline.

Cue, burcer<
urgers, brats, hot dogs and salads, and all you

drink from the full bar. In addition to the

includ; ;
n < , . \ .
§ an outing to the Second City Comedy Review, forerunner of

fourth floor and the actual rooftop,
Wi
th unobstructed views of the ballpark and the

as well as all-you-can-eat barbe-

ral other alumni events are planned,

   
  

1976 the quality of life through a combi- Parents and Craduates
éo— Sows ff nation of residential and other

panie! E. Dre Private Asset uses. Preston lives in Atlanta.
mea Mellon 1M” ea
jones sment as qa vice president - _
Manage! <¢ development officer. oes ee eee
and Pa Plymouth Meeting, Pa., James K. Vines
Rased in “1 be responsible for joined the law firm of Baker,
Drennen . s development in Donelson, Bearman & Caldwell as

“ — Pennsylvania and shareholder in the firm’s Nashville
southeast Jersey. office. Vines concentrates his prac-
squthem -X°™ - tice in environmental, health and

 

‘Top row, left to right: C. Blair Stowe ’00 (sister of Patrick Stowe), Patrick
p g

B. Stowe, E. Sanders Goodrich, Caroline L. Gee, Katherine D. Eagan,

Emily T. Forman, Lindsey B. Herman, Jill L. Herman °98 (sister of

Lindsey Herman). Bottom row, left to right: Harold C. Stowe "68,

William W. Goodrich °70, William S. Gee °77L, Lloyd E. Eagan Jr. °75,

J. Ross Forman III °69, Gary D. Herman ’ 70.

Justice’s office of overseas prosecu-
torial development and training.
He addressed members of the
Ukrainian Procuracy Academy,
where Ukrainian attorneys learn to
be prosecutors while also learning
about the U.S. criminal justice sys-
tem. In his work as an assistant
U.S. attorney for the District of
Columbia, he completed his one-
year position as senior litigation
counsel and continues to serve in
the homicide section.

Lt. Cmdr. Parker B.

Schenecker
moved from Hawaii to Woodridge,

Va. He has been assigned to the
Army personnel command as the
M1 colonel’s assignment officer.
His wife, Julie, and children Calyx,

6, and Beau, 3, are happy to be
back to Virginia.

Richard C. Swagler Jr.
joined AmSouth Bank in 2000 as
vice president for media relations.
He lives in Birmingham, Ala.

OW 1985 —<—»
Steven C. Logan
lives in Baltimore with his wife,
Kimberly, and their daughter,
Ellie. Logan is the regional vice

 

television’s classic “Saturday Night Live” on Friday, Sept. 7.

Rooftop tickets are $100 per person, though

fast—contact
(lizandwes@earthlink.net); Brent Vincent °94

the Chicago and Adlanta chapters have purchased
30 tickets each for sale to chapter members at a
reduced rate of $75, defraying the cost with chapter
funds. Other alumni chapters also can purchase
blocks of tickets (5, 10, 15 or 20) at the reduced price.
Tickets are available for purchase by other individ-
ual members at $100.

For more information—tickets are selling

Wes Ruggles "93

(bvincent@hotmail.com), or John Neumann °93 (jdneumann@jones-

day.com).

 

 

a W

president for CIGNA’s Mid-
Atlantic region, responsible for
Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina and South
Carolina.

W. Robert Payne IV

joined the firm of White &
Williams L.L.P., as a lateral associ-
ate in the firm’s casualty depart-
ment. White & Williams is a full-
service law firm located in
Philadelphia.

O._ 1986—-°
Paul M. Davey
relocated to Lehman Brothers’
London office.

Dr. J. David deHoll Jr.

is serving a one-year term as chief
of staff at Angel Medical Center in
Franklin, N.C. Previously, he
served as chairman of the depart-
ment of surgery. After serving in
this capacity for one year, he was
chosen as chief-elect of the full
medical staff.

Brian J. Oliger
is the news operations manager for
WTOP Radio in Washington.

Nelson R. Patterson
is a marketing consultant for

a Pa -<

a

Health Care Consumer Institute. a
start-up housed within Procter &
Gamble. He lives in San Antonio.

Andrew S. Weinberg

is senior vice president of private
equities and leveraged finance at
the Royal Bank of Scotland in
New York City. He had a wonder-
ful time visiting old Lex for

Homecoming, Ski Trip: It’s a Date!

Program your Palm Pilot. Mark your daytimer. It’s time to plan for

Homecoming 2001, Oct. 5 and 6, for undergraduates and Five Stars.

‘The class of 1951 will become Five-

| Star Generals. The class of 1946 cele-

brates its 55th reunion, the class of 1941

4
A its 60th; the class of 1936 its 65th, and the

 

class of 1931 its 70th. Cluster reunions
are planned for the classes of 1998, 1999,
2000 and 2001.

Friday’s highlights include campus

tours, seminars, the John Randolph Tucker lecture in the School of Law,

a Five-Star reception and banquet and a Virginia wine tasting, followed

by an old-fashioned barbecue for cluster reunionists. Saturday’s program

includes a luncheon, athletic events and Outing Club activities on the

Maury River.

And there’s more to come. Based on the popularity of last February’s

Colorado Colonnade ski weekend at Keystone Resorts, the event will
repeat on Jan. 30-Feb. 3, 2002. Don’t miss this fun-filled weekend.
For more information, contact the Alumni Office at 540-463-8469 or

look us up on the Web, www2.wlu.edu/alumni

‘Top row, left to right: John H. Dumas III, V. Michel Marcoux, Mary E. Woodard, R. Harrison
Katherine L. Carter, Hillary R. Bryant, Ryan E. LaRue, Virginia A. Brumby, Katherine C, Lamb, Eli:
P. Boardman, Katherine R. Baldwin, Adam C. Faillace. Bottom row, left to right: John H. Dumas
J. Michel Marcoux °66, Donald E. Woodard Jr. °71, Ralph H. Smith II °73, Leigh Carter ’49 (grandf
Katherine Carter), Corbet F. Bryant Jr. 68, Robert D. LaRue ’72, Thomas M. Brumby IV °64, k
Lamb III °74L, William P. Boardman ’63, ’69L, Bryan Baldwin ’70, Peter J. Faillace jr. 7a

Reunion Weekend in May.

O 1987~—-°
Samuel P. Simpson V
started his new law _ firm,
Montgomery & Simpson, last
February in Richmond.

O 1989 -—-°

M. Lucille Anderson

enjoys her work at McGlinchey
Stafford PL.L.C. with fellow
alumni Julian Panagos ’85L and
Joel Mohrman °77. She also serves
as board president of Aurora
Picture Show in Houston, a
microcinema and center for film,
video and multimedia. She lives in
Houston.

Oo 1990 — ©»

Scott T. Sanders

enjoys teaching and coaching in
San Diego. Last March he met
classmates and fraternity brothers
Carter Montague and ‘Tom
Dierdorff in San Francisco for a fun
weekend. He also caught up with
Brooks Pettus "90 and his beautiful
wife and daughter.

“O—_- 1992 -— ©

John T. Cox Ill

is a partner with the law firm of
Lynn ‘Tillotson & Pinker in Dallas.
The firm concentrates its practice
in civil and criminal litigation,
including property, antitrust, secu-
rities, employment law and white
collar criminal defense.

F. Trent Merchant
got together with Richard
Chapman 92 and Henry Harrison

     
     
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
     
  
   
 
 
   
   

‘VW

‘95 in Wilmington, N.C.

“Electric Larry Land,”
disco/karaoke night led by P
Skipper "92 as disc jockey, B
had a great time. Merchant lives}
Atlanta.

Donald H. Stier
finished his master’s degree
landscape architecture at Kar
State University. Together with
wife, Bridgid, he moved
Durham, N.C., where he is t
project manager at Greenways

O._ 1993 —S

Todd Cc. Ammermann
and his wife, Cathy "93, moved
Dallas in June of 2000. He isa
attorney at Vinson & Elke
L.L.P, while she is of corpe
counsel for Blockbuster Ine.

Dr. Brian K. Butcher
completed his first year in p iv
practice as a pediatrician. He

in Newport News, Va.

Derek W. Hutton
is a broker with Robinsom
Humphrey, Salomon Smit
Barney in Mobile, Ala. He has
sons, Reed Montgomery, 4 4!
Ryan Campbell, 2

Darren R. Johnson

was promoted to urethane
manager at UniRoyal Che
Co. Inc. and has relocated
Houston.

~ e

.
'

Donald H. Ridge Ill
received an executive M.B.A.
the Owen Graduate Schoo

 

—

iit University
He sold his
Powerboats,

at Vander!
e, ‘Tenn.
Armada
e world famous “Bat
to relocate to

ness
in Nashvill
any,
er of th :
s” and js hoping
swarm climate:

auers

ie L. S
stephan \ssumption

<a campus minister at
5s

College in Worcestct, Mass.
Talley D. Woolley

TG. Madison \dvertising
sipervisor with respon-
int superviso! \
gs accol
sibility for '
of the agency >
Society account.

Alpharetta, Ga.

ao 1994
Keith E. Crant )
was named senior editor of the
Long Beach Herald and Jceanside
Herald newspapers on Long
Island, N.Y. His writing was hon-
ered for a second year by the New
York State Press Association.

day-to-day management
American Cancer
She lives in

GC»

=

=
.
a

Erin M. Nelson

received a master’s degree in East
Asian language and literature from
Ohio State University in
Columbus. Ohio.

Cregory Patterson

has served as communications
director for Governor Ruth Ann
Minner of Delaware since she took
office in January, acting as the
administration’s message strate-
gist, press spokesman and lead
speechwriter. As Minner’s cam-
paign manager in the 2000 elec-
tion, he guided the state’s first
woman governor to a win with 59
percent of the vote. His wife, Sarah
Wyatt Patterson ’94, is a senior rat-
ings analyst with Blue Cross Blue
Shield of Delaware. ‘The couple
live a cell phone’s throw from the
state capitol in downtown Dover.

Michael H. Ross
moved from Jackson, Miss., to
Richmond, where he works for

 

Clay T. Jackson °76 (left), Albert J. Beveridge III (center) and

° W&L Professor Robert E. Akins were honored as Omicron Delta
>. Kappa inductees during the opening assembly of Reunion
_ Weekend on May 3. Jackson is president of Cooper, Love and
~ Jackson Inc. Insurance Co. in Nashville, Tenn. He has served on
— the Alumni Board of Directors, chaired the Nashville area’s effort
for W8<L.s former capital campaign, “On the Shoulders of Giants”
and isa member of the board of directors of the Nashville Institute

for the Arts and the Nashville Ballet. Beveridge is president of the

| Foundation, providing leadership for the highly regarded
atchival research center; he is an alumnus of Harvard University’s

kw School and se
in Washington,

rves as senior counsel for Beveridge and Diamond
Akins is a professor of physics and engineering. He

Nan influential advocate for environmental issues in the

_ area, including service on the Lexington City Planning
‘ssion and the Maury Service Authority.

 

homebytes.com, a service for

FSBO home sellers.

Sarah Ryan

returned from trips to Israel,
Senegal, Paris, New York City and
Miami and settled back in her
hometown of Cleveland. She will
be moving to ‘lucson, Ariz., to
study massage and shiatsu at the
Desert Institute of Healing Arts for
the next two years. She keeps in
touch with classmates Elise
Hagensen and Heidi ‘Iraulsen.

OO 1995 —<—>»
Bridget R. Cronin
was promoted to copy desk team
leader at the Charlotte Observer.

Vincent A. Keesee Jr.

begins law school at the University
of Georgia in August after spend-
ing four years in the northern
Rockies.

Carl B. Robinson Ill

is an account executive for
McNeely Pigott & Fox public
relations in Nashville, ‘Tenn., along
with Laura Voekel Braam 794.

Lois S. Wotton

was promoted to account director
for the Bergman Group, an adver-
tising agency in Richmond.

OO 1996 — ©»

Philip W. Carrott Jr.
will be attending The University
of Kansas Medical School this fall.

Dr. Helen S. Chandler
graduated from the University of
Alabama at Birmingham School of
Optometry and is practicing at the
Duke Eye Center in Durham,
N.C.

Margaret M. Hawn

is a physician assistant at the
Carrell Clinic, an orthopedic
surgery practice in Dallas. She is
working with a spine surgeon,
assisting in surgery and seeing
patients in the clinic.

Dr. Anna K. Mirk

lives outside of Seattle, Wash., and
is finishing her internship in inter-
nal medicine and will finish her
residency in internal medicine at
Madigan Army Medical Center in
‘Tacoma, Wash.

Dr. Robert W. Neel IV
finished his internship in internal
medicine and will be beginning
work in neurology in July. He lives
in Cincinnati.

Benjamin R. S. Vanderver
moved into sales engineering at
InterWorld Corp. in New York
City.

O— 1997 —<»

Melissa A. Courson

enjoys her job as recruiting coordi-
nator at Sutherland Asbill &
Brennan in Washington.

Dr. Tara L. Hebert

and her husband, Phil ’97, will be
spending three more years in
Baltimore while she completes her
residency in internal medicine at
Johns Hopkins University.

Jay B. Johnson

lives with classmate Derek Larson
in New York City. He just accept-
ed a new position as regional sales
manager at AltaVista.

Thomas F. Parrott

enjoys living in San Francisco,
where he sees ‘Tommy Dudley °97
and Douglas Ghertner °97, as well
as Jennifer and Jeffrey Laborde "95
once in a while.

O— 1998-—©

Byron B. Burns lll

moved from Charlotte, N.C., to
San Francisco and switched from
the world of investment banking
to the exciting sector of interactive
television. In his spare ufhe he has
been trying to learn how to surf
while getting up to ‘Tahoe to ski as
much as possible.

OO 1999—-—©>

Kendra L. Archer

finished her second year at
Georgetown University Law
Center. She will be working at
Shearman & Sterling in New York
this summer. In June she was a
bridesmaid for Alice Cockrum "99,
along with classmates Keri
Dunphy and Elizabeth Rodd.

Christine E. Bragg

lives in New Jersey and serves as
director of an after-school learning
center called SCORE! in East
Brunswick. She is still dancing and
singing though theater is not in the
works at the moment.

Christopher B. Looney

is about to complete his research
on bipolar disorder at the inpatient
psychiatric ward at Duke Medical
Center in August, when he will be
enrolling in medical school at the
University of Virginia.

 

 

A L U M N

Parents and Craduates

Foyt ,
. +
; 6 vs

 

‘Top row, left to right: Georgiana L. Hickam, Alison R. Cartwright, Mary Elizabeth Brookby, Sarah L.

Walters, Samuel B. Evans , Julianna M. Spencer, Christina E. Lollar, Drury A. S. Rasmussen, Samantha M.
Garbisch, Blair M. Priest, Martha E. Cornbrooks, Courtney E. Nolan, Michael K. Nolan ’99 (brother of
Courtney Nolan). Bottom row, left to right: C. William Hickam Jr. 60, Donald B. Cartwright 72, Robert
G. Brookby °72, Clifford L. Walters 11°71 °76L, Kenneth M. Evans ’72, John M. Spencer Jr. ’70, Charles
M. Lollar’77L, William M. Rasmussen ’68, Norbert S. Garbisch II] °74, John S. Graham III °67 (step-father
of Blair Priest), Ernest I. Cornbrooks III 67, John M. Nolan °70.

Paul J. Saupe

received an offer from the U.S.
Department of State to work at the
United States Mission to the
European Union in_ Brussels,
Belgium, beginning in September.

Carl E. Schulze

is a first year medical student at the
Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond.

Scott M. Zimmerly

has lived at 43 Wall Street for two
years now, a stone’s throw from
the stock exchange. He recently
has been notified that he must
move out, as the area will be
cleared for a new $1 billion stock
exchange. Besides looking for a
new home, he ts still working in
investment banking for Marsh +
McLennan Securities and enjoy-
ing New York.

“O—_ 2000 — ©—»
Crady C. Frank lil
works at First Union Securities.
He took a trip to Europe with
classmate Luke Doiron, visiting
Prague, Czechoslovakia, Vienna,
Austria, and parts of Germany.

 

Thomas C. Honaker Ill 73 to
Lynda Virginia ‘laylor on March 15
in Lexington, Miss. Honaker is the
administrator of University of
Mississippi Hospitals and Clinics-
Holmes Co.

Robert H. Tolleson Jr. '87 to
Charisse McLendon on Aug. 26,
2000, in Santa Fe, N.M. Members
of the wedding party included
Andrew Abernathy °88, Mac
Gibson °87 and Roby Mize ’87.
‘The couple live in Atlanta.

Shawn A. Copeland '90 to Jane
Seymour on Sept. 23, 2000, in
Charlotte, N.C. She is a school
counselor at ‘The Steward School
in Richmond, while he is an associ-
ate with Hunton & Williams and
practices civil litigation.

Virginia B. Jones "90 to Arthur
Jones on Jan. 13 in Charlottesville.
All of “Amityville” from 1990 and
many other Generals were in
attendance. ‘he couple and their
son, Jack, live in Birmingham, Ala.

Rev. Amy Y. Lehr '90 to William
Hunter Camp II on Jan. 20. She
graduated with a master’s of divin-
ity from Columbia Seminary in
Atlanta last December and is now
pastor of Old Brick “Belspring”
Presbyterian Churches in
Radford, Va.

Richard E. Martz Jr. "91 to Shawn
Weinman on March 10 in Atlanta.
Members of the wedding party
included classmates John Neslage,
J.R. Smith, Laurel Empie, ‘Terance
Fowler, Derek Oja and Anne
Walsh Flippen, as well as Chris
Baker 92 and Charles Flippen °92.

Dr. Karen Ruth Halsell "92 to
John Edward Ashton on March 18
on top of a mountain in Beaver

Creek, Colo. Her father, Edward F-
Halsell °59 and Katy Bailey °92
were in attendance. ‘The couple
live in Dallas, where she is a pedi-
atrician with Pediatric Associates
of Dallas, and he is a teacher and
director of wilderness programs at
St. Marks School of ‘Texas.

Robert H. Burger '93 to Frances
Honbarger on May 19 in Norfolk,
Va., where they live. Members of
the wedding party included Bill
Donnelly 93, ‘Tom Molony °93
and Chris Dreibelbis "94.

Calling Geology Majors

Don’t miss the Geology Alumni

Symposium, Field ‘Trip and

Reunion honoring the careers
of Professors Ed Spencer
53, Odell McGuire and
Sam Kozak Oct. 18-21.
Spencer retired this
spring,
retired in 1994,
and Kozak died in
1997.

McGuire

Alumni wishing to reg-

James F. Kull "94 to Kathy Rabe
on Oct. 28, 2000, in Lee Chapel,
Billy Aiken ‘94 and Ames
Hutton’94 were groomsmen. The
Kulls, together with friends and
family, celebrated the occasion
with a dinner reception at the
Willson-Walker House. They liye
in Dallas.

Robert J. MacNaughton '94 1,
Dana Cornell 95 on July 8, 2000,
in Chapel Hill, N.C. Members of
the wedding party included
Benjamin Brown 794, Alex
Cruikshank ‘94, Gregory Golub
94, Colin Higgins 94, Chad _
Loizeaux 94, Chris MacNaughton
"96, Richard Yates "92, Elizabeth
Holleman °95, Stephanie ‘Tomasso
Chaconas °95, Leslie Ratz 795,
Krost Bush *95, Katherine Barton
"95. and Vanessa MacKinlay
Bearden "95. ‘The couple reside in
Greenville, N.C.

Avery Rembowski '94 to Heath
Edmiston on April 27 in
Charleston, S.C. Maria Hardin "97
was maid of honor. Rembowski
has started her own graphic design
business, specializing in real estate
design, while Edmiston is an engi-
neer with JA _ Jones’ from
Richmond. ‘The couple own a
home in Charleston, S.C.

Damien Z. Del Russo '95 to Yin
Jitphuak on April 28, 2000, in Lee
Chapel. The groom’s advisor,
Professor Paul Bourdon, was in
attendance. ‘he couple are travel-
ing to Bangkok, ‘Thailand, this

 
   
  

ee eee

ae

ister or receive more information should write to: Geology Alumni

Weekend, Department of Geology, New Science, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Va. 24450, or call 540-463-8800.

 

W a

 

A L U M N

Parents and Craduates

The Ball family, left to
fight: Christopher M.
g

Ball °00, ( hris B. Ball,

member of the

new
W&L Board of
Trustees, Willis M. Ball

9, member of the
Alumni Board, Sarah
G. Ball ‘01, P. Butler
Ball “96, and Hilton

Hines 97, fiancée of

Butler Ball.

April, to renew their wedding vows
in grand style. The couple met on
the Internet and live in Greenbelt,
Md.

julie Ann Olejniczak '96 to
Benjamin C. Skaggs on April 21 in
Lexington. he couple relocated
to San Diego early this year. She
was promoted to program manager
with Covance and is managing
pharmaceutical hotlines and prod-
uct launches for a leading biotech
compat!

Catherine Avant "97 to Schuyler
Jones ‘97 on Sept. 2, 2000, in
Mobile, Ala. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates Jane
Goehring, Callie James, Anne Van
Auken, April Cheney, Kathleen
Menger, Amy Shaw, Heather Lipke,
Shiraz Moinuddin, John D. Adams
and David Jones, as well as Lisa
Jones °96 and Jackie Terrebonne "98.
The couple is about to move to
Durham, N.C., where he will be
doing his residency in internal med-
icine at Duke University.

M. Hunter Brackett '97 to Kristye
A. Koontz on April 28 in Raleigh,
N.C. Members of the wedding

party included classmates Robbie
Heyer, Keith Howell, Richard
Cob! Margaret ‘Thomas and
Marie Lamb. Also in attendance
Were lom Washburn ’99 and
Caro] lhompson °03. Brackett

Will pursue his M.B.A. from the
University of North Carolina at

 

Ann Plummer '97 to James
Stanley II on Oct. 14, 2000, in Lee
Chapel. Members of the wedding
party included Amy Jones’97 and
Sadaf Moradi °97. ‘The couple live
in Richmond, where she works for
Capital One Financial Corp. as an
Internet analyst.

Marium Crace Holland "98 to
Charles M. Smith "96 on July 8,
2000, in Houston. Members of the
wedding party included best man
Aki Nichols *95, maid of honor
Becca Harris 99, groomsmen
George M. Smith ’78, Rob Sult *78
and Phillip Jordan °97 and brides-
maids Cheryl Puzon °98 and
Jennifer Quail ’00. ‘The couple live
in New Orleans.

William T. Lowrance ‘98 to
Carter Shaw '98 on June 1/7,
2000, in Greenville, S.C. Members
of the wedding party included
classmates Andrew ‘late, Rob
Russell, Colin Connolly, Nick
Hodge, Juliana Edmunds King,
Leigh Lundstrom and_ Stacy
Patton, as well as Hal Shaw ’02 and
Amy McCauley °97. ‘The couple
live in Charleston, S.C., where he is
in his third year of medical school at
Medical University of South
Carolina, and she is working at
Quikfarm Inc., founded by fellow
W&L graduate Mason Pope 91.

BIRTHS

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Hummel
"80, a son, Richard Jensen, on Dec.
17, 2000. He joins sister Amy, 6, and
brother, Peter, 5. ‘The family live in
Wheaton, Ill. Hummel is involved
in the Indian Princess program at

the Glen Ellyn YMCA.

Mr. and Mrs. Cerard L. Broccoli
"BI, a son, Joseph Luca, on Aug. 10,
2000. He joins brother, Andrew, 7,
and sister, Caitlan, 2. The family live

in Albuquerque, N.M.

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Stathakis '81,
a son, James John, on Oct. 26, 2000.
Stathakis is a partner in the law firm
of Epps, Stathakis & Nelson in
Anderson, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Foster S. B.
Friedman ’84, a son, Beck, on June
19, 2000. The family live in
Alexandnia, Va.

Parents and Craduates

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Howard Jr.
'84, a son, James Marsh, on April 20.
He joins brother Jack. Howard was
promoted and transferred and is
now living in Davidsonville while
working in Baltimore, Md. He often
sees Steve Jones ’84 and his family.
At the Preakness race, he and his
wife, Val, placed a modest wager
with Mike Read °83 and his wife,
Donna.

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Hennig Ill
'86, a daughter, Beverly Waites, on
Dec. 27, 2000. They live in
Columbia, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey M. Hubbard
86, a son, Giles, on July 22, 2000.
He joins brother Colin. ‘The family
reside in Marblehead, Mass.

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Jones Jr.
'86, a son, Henry Dale, on June 25,
2000. He joins brother Will, 3. ‘The
family reside in Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Curtiss
"87, a daughter, Daniella Alexis, on
April 11. ‘They live in Oakland, N.J.

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy C.
McMahon '87, a daughter, Mary
Catherine, on April 28. She joins
brother Liam. ‘The family make
their home in Madison, Wis.

Mr. and Mrs. David C. McLeod
"88, a daughter, Dorothy Jane, on
March 16. She joins sister Mary
Garrett, 2. ‘They live in Augusta, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Lasseigne
iil "89, a daughter, Grace Anne, on

 

‘lop row, left to right: Matthew W. Ritter 99 (brother of Cassie Ritter), Carin E. Ritter, Laura E. Schramm,

Chapel Hill in the fall.

Katherine G. Kline, A. Stuart Crigler, Martha L. Leary, Philip B. Wright, Alison C. Simmons, Erin K.
Holly Liles '97 to Patrick Crump
on April 21 in Memphis, Tenn.,
Where the couple live. Ruth Henry
97 was the maid of honor and
Suzanne MeGettigan 97 was a
bridk

Ferguson, Jessica L. Parrillo, John Cole Oliver, Emily M. Barnes. Bottom row, left to right: ‘Theodore H.
Ritter °73LL, Howard M. Schramm Jr. 64, Joel S. Kline ’68 °74L, B. Waugh Crigler °70, Joseph C. Leary LI
‘74, Bradfield Fk. Wright °71, Judson H. Simmons °69, Stuart H. Ferguson II °68, Anthony J. Parrillo °75L,

d ‘Travis Oliver III 64, J. Arnold Barnes Jr. ’72, Victor A. Barnes *74 (uncle of Emily Barnes).
Maid,

Oct. 4, 2000. ‘They live in Roswell,
Ga.

Kennon S. McDonough’89 and her
husband, Joe, a son, Patrick John, on
March 30. He joins sister Kellan, 5.
‘They live in Belmont, Calif.

Julie Kirk Mulhern '89 and her
husband, Matthew, a daughter,
Katherine Kearney, on Feb. 25. She
joins sister Meredith. The family
live in Kansas City, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Schaeffer’89,
a daughter, Madeline ‘lownsend, on
May 2. ‘They live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Taylor Williams
'89, a son, Samuel ‘Taylor, on June
16, 2000. ‘They live in Atlanta.

A LU M N I

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Fakes Jr.
"90 a daughter, Mary Gibson
“Gibby,” on Feb. 1. The family live
in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Eric O. Kallen '90, a
daughter, Claire Jennings, on April
16. ‘The family live in London,
where he is working in mergers and
acquisitions for Morgan Stanley.

Mr. and Mrs. Harlan F. Winn Ill
90, a daughter, Charlotte Allen, on
May 14. She joins sisters Anne
Baxley, 5, and Virginia, 2, and broth-
er, Harlan, 3. ‘The family reside in
Birmingham, Ala.

Dr. James L. Fowler "91 and his
wife, Laurel Hollins "90, a son.

Patton, on Feb. 18. He joins sister

Better

len Azuma °72 and Jimm Cobb ’89 put their

own spin on how best to help people in disadvantaged communities: By

breathing new life into “lost” neighborhoods and by empowering those

in the neighborhoods to help themselves.

Azuma is a principal of ‘Trkla,
Pettigrew, Allen & Payne (TPAP), a
development and consulting firm
that fills a need in often overlooked
communities in Chicago.

Lake Park Pointe Shopping
Center, a joint venture of TPAP and
the Fund for Community Redevel-
opment and Revitalization, recently
won the Chicago Neighborhood
Development Award for 2000. The
project, at 47th Street and Lake Park
Avenue on the city’s southeast side,
was selected as “the first significant
commercial development in that
neighborhood in 50 years.”

“Inner-city Communities are

Caroline, 3. Fowler is about to begin
his second and final year of plastic
surgery residency in Greenville,
S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark W. Lotruglio
‘91, a son, Aidan James, on April 3.
He joins brother Kian. They live in
Port Washington, N.Y.

Mr. and Mrs. John E. McManus 91,
ason, John Ecker, on Dec. 16 , 2000.
Jack is named after his great-grand-
father Jack Ecker ’28. McManus
was appointed staff director of the
Ways and Means subcommittee on
health. He will be working on
issues such as Medicare reform, pre-
scription drugs, patient bill of rights
and patient confidentiality.

“I enjoy the challenge of dealing with people with different experiences

Mr. and Mrs. T. Cilbert Amason jj
‘92, a son, ‘Thomas Gilbert TV, on
Feb. 2. Amason is practicing lay at
Balch & Bingham in Birmingham,
Ala.

Monie Schroeder Henderson '92
and her husband, William, a Son,
Andrew Hollensworth, on March
29. He joins sister, Madeline Claire,
2. The family lives in Oxford, Miss,
where she is a stay-at-home mom
and he is an OB/GYN.

A. Key Foster Ill "93 and Walton
Eagon Foster '93, a son, Arthur
Key IV, on Feb. 13. The family live
in New York City.

Mr. and Mrs. Ashby R.
'94, a son, Alston, on May 1, 2000,

and backgrounds but who share the same goal. I’ve gotten to the point

where I don’t have to do business with those whom I don’t respect or

whose values I don’t share. I think we can conduct our lives in business

with honesty and honor. It’s good for

ss

ty.

business and good for the communi-

GLEN AZUMA

JIMM COBB

underserved by retailers,” says Azuma. “They have little or no access to

grocery stores.”

Shopping centers stimulate economic growth in

depressed areas, but typical retailers are looking for high median

incomes. However, Azuma found that in dense urban areas, the buying

power of lower income people can be great. “It’s an interesting demo-

graphic opportunity,” he says. His work often requires partnerships with

local community groups, and his company often uses creative financing

methods to enable projects. For instance, the company was selected to

set up a tax increment financing district, called a TIF, on a new East Side

project. With this arrangement, money generated by increasing proper-

ty value goes to pay off costs associated with improving the property.

"72 HELPS STIMULATE GROWTH
IN DISADVANTAGED NEIGHBORHOODS.

"89 EDUCATES NON-TRADITIONAL
BANK CUSTOMERS ABOUT MONEY MANAGEMENT.

 

A stint with the Peace Corp took
Jimm Cobb °89 to Papua, New
Guinea, where he stayed on to teach
English at a private foundation. When
he finally returned to the states, he put
his teaching experience to work in a
new role.

Cobb heads retail sales and ser-
vice for all the brick and mortar
branches of ShoreBank in Chicago,
the country’s oldest and largest com-
bank.

ShoreBank was the dream of two

munity development

minority founders, who pooled money

to acquire a floundering bank, after taking the bank to court when it

wanted to pull out of the community. The bank turns a profit by loan-

ing money to non-traditional clients—those with a poor credit history or

none at all. ‘The bank offers a free 12-week program, New Genesis, to

educate customers about money management. Cobb meets monthly

with 80 employees to discuss performance and goals, and holds publie

forums to discover how the bank can further develop the community.

“We are defining our customers’ real needs and helping them to move

forward to meet their goals, whether that is getting a car loan, becoming

a homeowner or creating a portfolio,” says Cobb.

—Laoni Stevens

   
  
 
  
  
    
 
   
  

 

—

 

 

 

Top row, left to right: Phelps J. M. Harmon, Mary E. Harmon °99 (sister of Phelps Harmon), Robert ‘I. Hall
IV, Timothy R. Angelillo, Ruth W. Duncan, Sarah G. Ball, S. Carey Baugher, J. Howard Davenport,
Margaret-Hunter ‘Turner, William B. Ogilvie II, C. Carter Lee, Alice S. Lee. Bottom row, left to nght:
Francis G. Harmon III 68, Robert T. Hall III 67, Thomas K. Angelilo ’74, E. Townes Duncan *78L, Willis
M. Ball [11 69, W. Hugh Baugher 68, Joseph H. Davenport III 69, James M. ‘Turner Jr. °67, °71L, James
M. Turner II 95 (brother of Margaret-Hunter ‘Turner), W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr. °64, William D. S. Lee’ 65,
Charles C. Lee °67, John P. Lee ’62 (uncle of both Carter Lee and Alice Lee).

He left the law practice to pursue
his M.B.A. at the University of
Virginia.

Dena Duzan Sokoll '94 and her
husband, Walt, a son, Nicholas
Anthony, on Aug. 29, 2000. ‘The
family live in Oradell, N.J.

Stacy Newlin Nyikos "95 and her
husband, David, a son, Alexander
Michael, on March 31. ‘The family
live in Clarksville, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Polaski
'96, a son, Koby ‘Thomas, on Feb.
16. Polaski graduated from the
University of Southern California
Law School in 1999 and now clerks
for a judge in Pennsylvania. He met
his wife, Amy, at the courthouse and
was married last October.

Joel C. Honts '97 and Marthe
Hirschy Honts '97, a son, Logan
Patrick, on April 6. The family live
in Glasgow, Va.

OBITUARIES

 

Col. Herbert H. Butler '28,

retired from service in the U.S.
Army, died May 28 in Woodbury,
NJ. A member of Delta Epsilon
Social fraternity and valedictorian of
his class, he worked for Bell
lelephone in Philadelphia after
graduation. He joined the service in
1934 and achieved the rank of
Colone! before retiring in 1966. He
became president of Common-
Wealth ‘Telephone Co. in Wilkes
Sarre, Pa., and later was an execu-

W «

tive with International ‘lelephone
and ‘Telegraph in Washington.
Butler worked as an aide to U.S.
Rep. Larry Hogan of Maryland in
the final stage of his career.

Lynnwood Flory Jr. "30,

retired owner of the Seven-Up
Bottling Co. in Elkton, Va., died
April 3 in Elkton. A member of Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity, he was
past president of Pi Kappa Phi
Alumni Association and past presi-
dent of the Virginia State Bottlers’
Association. He served as a member
of the Elkton ‘Town Council and the
Rockingham County School Board.

Dr. Robert L. Brickhouse ’'36,

a retired physician in central
Virginia, died April 13 in Charlot-
tesville. After graduation, he taught
high school for two years before
entering medical school at
Washington University in St. Louis.
He served as a combat doctor in the
U.S. Army in the Pacific during
World War II. Upon returning to
Virginia, he was in private practice in
Lynchburg for many years until
moving to Charlottesville, where he
was a member of the University of
Virginia faculty and the medical staff
of Western State Hospital in
Staunton.

Frank L. Price’36, '38L,

retired head of the FBI’s Honolulu
branch office, died May 24. A
Lambda Chi Alpha, he was a mem-
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma
Delta Chi, Pi Alpha Nu and Phi
Delta Phi. In 1964, he retired from

 

the FBI and later served as chair-
man of the San Diego chapter of the

Society of Former Special Agents of

the FBL

The Rev. Thomas J. Tichenor '36,
former pastor of Baptist churches in
Ohio, Kentucky and ‘lennessee,
died Jan. 27 in Sharonville, Ohio.
He attended W&L for one year
from 1932 to 1933 before attending
Georgetown College and Louts-
ville ‘Theological Seminary.

Casper A. Tooke Jr. '36,

a retired lawyer in Shreveport, La.,
died May 3 in Shreveport. A mem-
ber of Phi Delta ‘Theta social frater-
nity, he received his bachelor’s from
Centenary College in 1936. He
served in the U.S. Army as a glider
pilot during World War II, participat-
ing in the Normandy invasion and
the Battle of the Bulge. He received
both the Purple Heart and the
Bronze Star. After the war, he prac-
ticed law in Shreveport until 1973.

Earl C. Thompson Jr. '38,

a retired senior officer for the
Adlantic Mutual Insurance Co., died
May 18. A member of Phi Kappa
Sigma social fraternity, he served 10
years in the U.S. Army, achieving
the rank of captain.

John J. Dangler ’40,

a retired IBM Corp. salesman and
World War II veteran, died May 14,

1998. Dangler was a member of

Alpha ‘Tau Omega social fraternity.

James C. Creen’40,

a retired tobacconist in Clarkton,

N.C., died Feb. 4, 2000. He served
in the U.S. Marine Corps during
World War Il before beginning a
career operating tobacco sales ware-
houses in Georgia, North Carolina,
Virginia and ‘lennessee. Green
served several terms in the North
Carolina General Assembly and was
speaker of the house in the 1975-
1976 session.

William T. Lewis ‘40,

president of Evans and Lewis
Insurance Agency, died May 29 in
Prospect, Ky. A member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, he
attended W&L from 1936 to 1938
before serving in the U.S. Army Air
Force during World War IL.

Donald C. McCausland '41,

a retired real estate appraiser and
owner of Donald G. McCausland
Real Estate in Great Neck, N.Y.
died April 29, 1999. A member of
White Friars and Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, he served in the U.S.
Army during World War IL.

Robert B. Brainard Jr. '43,
retired owner of Brainard Agency
Inc. in Middletown, Conn., died
April 24. A member of Sigma Nu
social fraternity, he served in the
U.S. Army Air Force in World War
II. He retired from his insurance and
real estate business in 1979 and
moved from Middletown to
Sarasota, Fla.

Robert S. Keebler Jr. '46,

a retired stock broker with Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter, died April 9. A
member of Phi Kappa Psi social fra-
ternity, he served as a lieutenant
junior grade in the U.S. Navy dunng
World War II.

Custave A. Fritchie Jr. "50,

a retired judge and civic leader in
Slidell, La., died April 26 in Slidell.
He was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity, the
University Glee Club and White
Friars and was senior class vice pres-
ident. He practiced law until 1971
and then took over the City Court
judgeship formerly held by his
father, a position he held until his
retirement in 1989.

Maj. Lester H. Lewis Jr. "50,

died March 7. A member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity, he
attended W&L from 1946 to 1949
before joining the armed service. In
1967, he retired from the Army and
began working as a life insurance
salesman for New York Life
Insurance Co. in Montgomery, Ala.

 

 

ith)

 

 

The Alumni Association honored the large and small chapters
of the year for 1999-2000. Which is the largest of them all? The
Mid-South Chapter, headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., and
headed by J. Bruce Moore 81, president, and Walter Scott III
"91, vice president. Immediate past president is Edward ‘Taylor
II 81. Small but strong is the Louisville, Ky., Chapter headed by
James K. Falk °81, ’84L, president, and Christine L. Champlin
"90, °93L, vice-president. Immediate past president is John H.
Ward IV 68. Congratulations to all for their hard work.

William S. Hubard '50L,

a former Roanoke City Councilman
and civic leader, died May 25. He
served in the Navy during World War
Il before graduating from The
College of William and Mary in 1947.
He was a Phi Beta Kappa and Order
of the Coif at W&L Law School, as
well as a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, Law Review, Student
Executive Committee and Phi
Alpha Delta. Before retiring in 1985,
he headed the Roanoke Valley cam-
paign of the United Negro College
Fund and served on the Virginia
Advisory Committee to the United
States Civil Rights Commission.

Robert M. Hornor Jr. '52,

retired from R. M. Hornor Farms in
Helena, Ark., died April 5 in
Helena. He attended W&L for one
year before transferring to the
University of Arkansas. He served
in the U.S. Army in the Korean War
and received a Meritorious Service
Award during active duty.

Mr. Lewis Deschler 1153, '55L,
former partner in the firm of
Deschler and Reed in Boca Raton,
I la., died Nov. 26, 2000. A member
of Phi Gamma Delta social fraterni-
ty, he served in the U.S. Navy from
1955 to 1959.

The Hon. J. Keith Nelson '53,

a retired district judge in Wichita
Falls, “Texas, died March 8. A mem-
ber of Kappa Alpha, he practiced
corporate law until his appointment
to the district court in 1979. Nelson
was a two-year U.S. Army veteran.

Kent C. Horner '54,

retired audiovisual director of
Suffern High School in Suffern,
N.Y., died Jan. 2001. He was a mem-
ber of Delta Upsilon social fraternity
and vice president of the Graham-
Lee-Washington Literary Society.
Horner was appointed director of
Rose Memorial Library in Stony

Point, N.Y., following his retirement
from Suffern High School.

Leslie H. Peard Il 62,

a retired vice-president for Salomon
Smith Barney Holdings Inc. in
Fresno, Calif., died Feb. 12. He
belonged to Delta ‘Tau Delta social
fraternity and White Friars.

David H. Carroll '65,

former president of the Mid-
Atlantic Beverage Service in
Baltimore, died April 9 in Hilton
Head, S.C. He was a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity and
was a four-year letter winner on the
golf team.

J. Jeffrey Williams '66,

a former salesman and musician,
died May 17 in Lakewood, Ohio. A
member of Pi Kappa Phi social fra-
ternity, he was president of the
Concert Guild and a member of the
University Glee Club. He worked
for 26 years in his family’s tool distri-
bution firm, Mau Sherwood Inc.,
before giving up his sales job to pur-
sue a Career in music as a pianist and
guitarist.

Philip L Herndon '69,

a leader in the citrus and commodi-
ties industries, died May 7. A mem-
ber and president of Sigma Nu
social fraternity, he served one tour
of duty in the U.S. Army in
Vietnam, where he earned a Bronze
Star. He was on the board of Florida
Citrus Mutual for 13 years, includ-
ing three years as president, and was
vice president of Alcoma Packing
Co. Inc. Most recently, he was a spe-
cial projects manager for Louis
Dreyfus Co., a worldwide com-
modities broker.

Morgan E. Moses 70L,
of Afton, Va., died May 4.

Thomas B. Hobbes '72,

a corporate and intellectual property

 

   
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  

lawyer in Washington, died May 6 in
Washington. A member of Pi Kappa
Phi social fraternity, he received his
law degree from Louisiana State
University in 1978 before moving to
Washington as an associate of Arter
& Hadden and general counsel of
Morino Associates. He opened his
own law office in 1991.

Phillip |. Dillingham '83L,
a partner with the law firm ¢
Walker, Dillingham and Fairs

in Jacksonville, Fla., died Feb, 15,

x

Max W. Petzold 89

passed away March 29 in Houste,
after a long battle with cancer
During his time at W&L, he was
four-year letterman on the baseba
team. Originally from Gainesyj
Fla., Petzold was a store -
and then a sales representative fe
Sherwin-Williams, first in Gaines
ville and then in Houston. He was
member of Holy ‘Trinity Episcop,
Church in Gainesville. He is sup
vived by his wife, Lisa Jay Petzole

  

William T. Tiers 111 '76,

a finance manager at Fette Ford Inc.
in Clifton, N.J., died May 7. He was
an All-American swimmer and a
member of the water polo team.

~~

J. Daniel Scott Ill 77,

formerly employed by ‘The Boars

Head Inn in Charlottesville, died 91.
March 4. A magna cum laude grad-
uate and member of Omicron Delta Charles M. Snyder 99,

Kappa, Scott was also in the

employed in corporate banking ;
University Glee Club.

Wells Fargo Bank in San Franciseg
died April 8. He was a member ¢
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity, $

4

WASHINGTON AND LEE.
Armchairs and Rocker

The chairs are made of s¢
hardrock maple in black lacquer
ish with cherry arms. The five-c
crest of the University is painted
the back of each chair or roc
‘They are attractive and stur
pieces of furniture and are welce
gifts for birthdays, graduati
Christmas, anniversaries or we
dings. All profit from sales of
chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham 14. _

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by calli
(540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L Alumni Office
(540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to: Washington and Lee Alum
Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303. 1

 

IC

      
   
  
   
 
 

 

J BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $295)
(] ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $295)

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS
CITY/STATE/ZIP
DAYTIME PHONE

 

 

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT [) VISA () MASTERCARD () CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to W@L Alumni
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

W a

s

ht

ington and L

wy A l U M N I M fe & A BZ I N I

 

   

ore, Marching On

Despite threats of thunderstorms, the
sun burst through the clouds on June 7
just in time for 395 members of the
class of 2001 to march beneath the
Colonnade one last time. Parents,
grandparents and siblings snapped pic-
tures and burst into applause as stu-
dents accepted diplomas awarded by
President John W. Elrod. The class will

be remembered for pioneering online

 

registration and being the first to go

through winter fraternity/sorority rush.

We

Valedictorian was Angela C. Roman

of Latrobe, Pa. Jeffery K. Cooke, of

“<a

\

: : - i od , .
ee eis Ph. ee” Bs "
- td a
‘ - " a . - ,r ’ él
ids " Roy 4 ‘ ie, . A ® 4 Visi
W. , 3 - ioe ‘ 4 Ae A -P > ‘ f < “ uf
7 - COT AY a e > Lay I “ . a Ba mi

a Carterville, Ill, and Jennifer R.
Strawbridge, of Houston, received
Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallions awarded by faculty to those who “excel in high ideals
of living, in spiritual qualities and generous and disinterested service to others.” John D.
Comly, of Baltimore, student body president, received the Frank J. Gilliam Award for contri-
butions to student affairs. Josh Chamberlain, of Richmond, earned the Edward Lee Pinney
Prize for personal scholarship; he also earned a Watson Fellowship for a year of study abroad.

Honorary degrees were awarded to Ted Edlich, Roanoke anti-poverty activist; Elizabeth
Helen Cooper, a medieval scholar from University College, Oxford, and Homer Edwin

“Buddy” Derrick Jr., Lexington community leader and former mayor.

io
awe ch ool Clommencement
arching smartly with their traditional w alking sticks, 119 graduates of the School of Law set out
- the future after commencement ceremonies on the Front Lawn May 13.

Richard Butler, diplomat-in-residence for the Council on Foreign Relations, challenged the young
wyers of the class of 2001 to carry the honor instilled in them at Washington and Lee into their legal
reers spanning the globe. ‘This
as the first commencement
<ercise for Dean David Partlett,
ho joined W&L in June 2000.

Derron J. Blakely, of
exington, received the John W.
Javis Prize for Law, awarded
x the highest cumulative
rade-point average. Nakisha

}. Sharpe, of Richmond, accept-
-d the Calhoun Bond University
Service Award for significant
ontributions to the University

ommunity.

 

 

The Washington and Lee University NON Prop

ALUMNI MAGAZINE U.S. Pom

PERMIT Neg

   
 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

www.wlu.edu NORFOL,

Surf s Up!

‘Take a ride on the W&L Web. It’s almost as good as being here.
From the home page, you can find:

 

Colonnade Cam—a live picture, refreshed every Live athletic event coverage. Click on
15 seconds. Click on “Introducing W&L.” “Student Life,” then “Athletics.” Or go to
si scsi aie ask haga ec tena a ee a eet athletics.wlu.edu and click on “Listen to the
The latest University headlines. Generals.” (See related story on page 13) |
Gece a ee ee lei Deakek Coee eee ocak ee

neve ebis he bab EGb GON bei M aw ERA ds due aE Tea bk Cn tek culcia thud International travel tips. Click on “Academ
A new W&L sweatshirt or baseball cap. Resources,” then “International Education,” then
Click on “Campus Services” and then “Bookstore” “International ‘Travel Resource Center.”
or go directly to bookstore.wlu.edu

 

 

