ee
a et. a

=
tte,

Sant
eee
*

Fe Ror” eet
erg

 

 

ood Samaritans

  
    
 
 
  
   
 

acy McLoughlin ‘02
lational Service Award

CONN LTT eae)
Ae GOA
oints of View

lew Interdisciplinary
LAO ORL

ee de

 

’ oa

y

B

OSs

PHO

-

ys

* DWAR F

Wildflower Walk On Campus

LARK S PU AR

- 7

a

..

;

\E

eae meee ae ee

Oem cee memo mn am.

an on?)

 

 

Se wt:

OW MANY
of us, if we didn’t run cross country,
know about the trails on W&Ls back
campus? It’s a secret we don’t want to
keep. From the Law School, cross to
the Woods Creek parking lot and pick
up the Woods Creek trail. Follow
to the VMI baseball and soccer fields.
Go left through the pine trees, where
the trail will climb to the ridge, which
puts you on top of Maury River Cliffs.
Below is the steep wooded wild-
flower slope with a network of easy
walking trails. Amid towering
broadleaf trees like tulip poplar, oak
and hickory, you will find an extraor-
dinary display of native wildflowers:
trillium, hepatica, bloodroot, twinleaf,
trout lily, spring beauty, Dutchman’s
breeches and many others. We have
here a remnant of the great eastern
deciduous forest. It is a place that has
been known to generations of wild-
flower enthusiasts from all over west-
ern Virginia. Its value has been recog-
nized by W&L, which has commit-
ted itself to protecting this natural
treasure. Read about this hike and
many more outdoor experiences in
the new Outing Club Guidebook, avail-
able at the W&L Bookstore for $15.

—Kirk kollo, ’67

GERMAN LECTURER AND
OUTING CLUB ADVISOR

oe

DUTCHMAN’S

    

BREECHES

 

 

> +--+

VOLUME 76 NUMBER 1
SPRING 2001

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White = Director of Communications
and External Relations

Deborah Marquardt = l/niversity Editor

Art Baltrosky, lan Bradshaw, Brian Logue,

Wendy Lovell, Laura Parsons, Lori Stevens,

Louise Uffelman Contributing /-ditors

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Bard Wrisley ‘73, Scott Ferrell ‘87,

Lori Stevens, Sam Evans 'O1 = Contributors

Mary Woodson = Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design |= Art Director

Patrick Hinely ‘73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee Untversity,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. "60, Rector
John W. Elrod, President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop 111 °68 (Flourtown, Pa.)
William P. Boardman °63, ‘691. (Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

Joseph H. Davenport 11169 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T: Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

William H. Fishback Jr. 56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom °’73 (Columbia, S.C.)

William R. Goodell 80L. (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell 111 °69, °75L (Richmond)

William B. Hill Jr.’74,°77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, °62L. (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr. °62 (Hillsborough, Calif.)
John Klinedinst’71,°78L. (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall 64, 691. (Houston)

Michael H. Monier ’62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith ’73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar 64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ.)
Maryaret J. ( Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Suzanne F. Thomas (Alexandria, Va.)

Matthew G. Thompson °64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm ’68,°75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White ’’77 (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-463-8400

Publications Office 540-463-8956
Admissions Office 540-463-8710

Alumni Office 540-463-8464

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu
Career Services 540-463-8595
Development Office 540-463-8410

News Office 540-463-8460

Sports Information Office 540-463-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-463-8098
WEL Home Page wwwwlu.edu

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 | ican :

mie: te

ALUMNI PRESIODENT’S JI ouRNAL

umni gathered in Keystone, Colo., for a
ski weekend during Washington and Lee’s February break (see page 32). My
husband, Mark, and I anticipated that we would have a good time, but we never
imagined that the long weekend would rank so high on our list of favorite trips.

It goes without saying that the resort took great care of us, the snow was plen-
tiful and the food was great. But what else made this outing so extraordinarily spe-

cial? That thing we all have in common—W&L.

LESSONS

S KI

 

Our group represented members ranging from the class of 1958 to the class
of 2004. (Yes, that’s right, we were joined by Carrie Graham, a member of the
freshman class.)

While the gathering originally was envisioned as a regional event, designed to
reach out to alumni in the West who are furthest from campus, there were, in fact,
attendees from Virginia, ‘Texas, Georgia,
New York, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Wash-
ington and New Mexico. Our group
included a family of five, married couples,
single classmates. We all attended W&L
at different times, some of us were Law
School graduates and the rest undergradu-
ates. There were active alumni and those
who rarely attend a chapter event.

Within this incredibly diverse group,
some spent their days skiing, snowmobil-
ing and ice skating. Others shopped and

enjoyed the spa. ‘There was a continuing

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT.

 

legal education seminar. ‘There was a
Washington and Lee NASTAR ski race, complete with race training by Jason
Rosener, a member of the U.S. Ski Team. Some attendees filled every minute of
the day, some slept in and others enjoyed being on vacation.

However, as we dined and skied together, the Washington and Lee connec-
tion worked its magic. What made these four days so perfect, I realized, was the
pleasure that Washington and Lee alumni, and their families and friends, take in
being together.

At the end of each day, after enjoying all that the resort had to offer, we
couldn’t wait to gather and compare notes. The events were extremely well-
planned. Group events were punctuated with hilarious college stories, spirited
discussions and the blending of so many different careers and life stories. We
compared notes about our individual W&L experiences. We networked and
made industry contacts, and some of us have firm plans to get together again.

Rob Mish, Tom Lovell and the alumni office staff are to be commended for
this memorable weekend. I am pleased to report that planning already has begun
for next year’s trip. If you missed it this year, I hope you will consider joining us
then. It doesn’t matter whether you ski or not. I can promise great conversation
and great company.

I left Colorado musing about the power of the Washington and Lee experi-
ence. It truly is a tie that binds. 4
—Jennifer Bray Stratton '89,

President, WEL. Alumni Association

Jenniferstratton@alumni.wlu.edu

ROB MISH °76, DIRECTOR OF ALUMNI

PROGRAMS. WITH JENNIFER STRATTON ’89,

Friends Remembered

| was greatly saddened to learn of
Bill Washburn’s death last month
(see page 48). He was a good
friend and during my last two
vears at the law school, he and I
ionic ride to Staunton and
attend Naval Reserve meetings
at the Woodrow Wilson Rehab
Center located there. He also
wrote letters for me which were
most helpful in my gaining
admission to the Hunton &
Williams law firm in Richmond
with Lewis Powell as my firm
mentor.
— Wally McGraw '55L

Richmond

| met Joseph Patrick O’Connell
Jr. almost 20 years ago when we
were beginning our freshman
year at W&L. Pat, along with a
number of other men from
W&L, continue to be my best
friends. Over the years, our group
has grown to include beautiful
wives and children. As we’ve
grown older, our get-togethers
are less frequent but no less fun.

Our most recent reunion
ended March 10. We got together
in Frederick, Md., to say goodbye
to Pat and to celebrate his life. He
died on March 6; he was 37. (See
page 47.) Those whom Pat
touched know that he was a great
person, as he brought laughter
and honor to people’s lives. Pat
will be in my prayers and is in all
of our hearts.

—Jeffrey 8. Reichert 85

New York

Write to WGL

By Mail: University Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-463-8024

All letters should bx signed and include the
author’s name, addr ss and daytime phone num-
ber: Letters selected for publication may be edited
for length, content and style. Signed articles reflect
the wiews Of their authors and not necessarily
those Of the editonal board or the l ‘niversity.

WEL E-News

W&Ls Communications and
Publications Office — has
launched a monthly e-mail
newsletter featuring the lat-
est news, alumni updates and
athletic highlights. W&L
Notes is a headline service
delivered directly to you,
making it easy to keep
abreast of major campus
events and issues. W&L
Notes also features direct
links to access complete sto-
ries and more information
elsewhere on the W&L Web.
It’s at your fingertips! ‘To sub-
scribe, send a message to
noteseditor@wlu.edu.

Drinking and Driving

I read with sadness in the Winter
issue the passing of two young
adults this fall at W&L, Adam ‘T°
Burchett and Kristin A. Shelton,
apparently in an alcohol-related
accident. I was surprised and,
quite frankly, angered that the
only reference to this accident
was one sentence on page 16
referring me back to the obituary
section, which shed no details. In
fact, Ms. Shelton’s receipt of the
ODAC “Rookie of the Year”
honor in volleyball with no refer-
ence to her untimely death fur-
ther illustrates the ‘wrong way’
the University deals with the
problem of alcohol.

Alcohol kills young people
and destroys lives, and it is in the
telling of the details of those
deaths that impacts those in need
of help. ‘The “special report”
about alcohol on page 16 was
well written, but exceptionally
boring. What I really wanted to
read was how Mr. Burchett and
Ms. Shelton lived, and, specifi-
cally, how they died; what precise
role alcohol played in their
deaths; what dreams they had
which will never be fulfilled; and

 

what the University plans to do
specifically so that more young
people will not die.

As someone who drank his
way through W&L Law School
by the skin of his teeth, I can tell
you, after finally getting sober
nearly 10 years ago, that it is in
getting all of the truth out on the
table that real healing and pre-
vention can occur. (I have served
with the Houston Council on
Alcohol and Drugs.)

1 am sure much more was
written and discussed on cam-
pus, but the message in the
Alumni Magazine minimized what
must have been a terrible
tragedy. If you really want to do
something about alcohol, talk
about it openly with all of the
gritty details, even in the “slick-
ness” of the A/umni Magazine.

— Matthew C. Guilfoyle °83L,

Houston

International Exchange

‘The August Alumni College trip
to ‘lanzania that was mentioned
in the winter A/wmni Magazine is
the kind of exchange that the
world needs so badly. ‘The pro-
ject, as described, will be in the
memory of all present for the rest
of their days. | am impressed by
the detail and utility of the effort.
We need this sort of thing, even
across town.
—Gary Dobbs
Homewood, Ala.

Nice Work

‘The “new” A/umni Magazine is
absolutely terrific. “The format
and the entire presentation are
dramatically improved over the
old standard magazine. Congrat-
ulations to all of you who had a
part in that change. #
—E Mot Schewel °45
Lynchburg, Va.

 

shington

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

qaSS—

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

Jennifer Bray Stratton ’89, President (Austin, Texas)

Russell W. Chambliss °74, Vice President
(Birmingham, Ala.)

Robert WH. Mish 11°76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman 91 (Morristown, NJ.)
Robert M. Balentine Jr. ’79 (Atlanta)
William M. Ball 111 69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)
J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Colo.)
Roger G. Bowers '941. (Richmond)

James R. Brooks ’77 (Houston)

Clark H. Carter '69 (Baltimore)

Richard S§. Cleary °78 (Louisville, Ky.)
John M. Cleghorn '84 (Charlotte, N.C.)
Alan M. Corwin ’62 (Olympia, Wash.)

J. Hagood Ellison Jr. ’72 (Columbia, 8.C.)
Dwight H. Emanuelson Jr. °84 (Dallas)
John M. Falk ’86, ‘gol. (Washington)
Peter C. Keefe °78 (Washington)

B. Christopher Lee °71 (Philadelphia)
Devon A. McAllister 92 (San Francisco)
David S. Makepeace ’88 (Raleigh, N.C.)
Theodore B. Martin Jr. 80 (Chicago)

The Hon. William Ray Price Jr.’78 (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Bradley B. Root ’88 (Pittsburgh)

William W. Schaefer 60 (Memphis, Tenn.)
William P. Wallace Jr.’74,°77L. (Roanoke)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

David L. Baird Jr.’71L., President (Houston)

Lizanne Thomas ’821,, Vice President (Atlanta)

Heather K. Mallard '88L, Immediate Past President
(Raleigh, N.C.)

Law Council

Loranne Ausley "90L (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T; Balfour ’63, '651L. (Richmond)

Kenneth S. Beall Jr. 61, 63. (West Palm Beach, Fla.)
Stanley G. Brading Jr. 791. (Atlanta)

Joseph W. Brown "68L (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L. (Atlanta)

E.. Townes Duncan ’78L (Nashville, Tenn.)
David P. Falck ’78L (New York City)

Samuel A. Flax ’81L. (Washington)

James J. Kelley 11°74. (Washington)

The Hon. Michael L.. Krancer ’83L (Harrisburg, Pa.)
James I. Nicholson ’77L. (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E:. Payne °63,°67L. (Richmond)
C. Edward Russell Jr. 67. (Norfolk)

Caroline W. Sink 82L (Charlotte)

Robert 1. Stolsman "86L (Providence, RI)
Christopher Wolf 'SoL. (Washington)

Cheryl H. Wolfe 80L. (Charleston, W.Va.)

Laura Anderson Wright "941. (College Park, Md.)
Anne R. Yuengert ‘Sol. (Birmingham, Ala.)

THE Cc O6O LON N A BE

YS: ‘ee.

 

[i

Washington and Lee instituted an office whose purpose it is to pursue
corporate and foundation grants to enhance educational initiatives. ‘The
results, under the direction of George Carras, have been outstanding—
more than $12.5 million in three years. Read about these recent excit-

ing developments.

Nonlinear Dynamics

A group of science and math professors at Washington and Lee
University has been awarded a $500,000 grant by the W.M. Keck
Foundation.

The grant will help W&L
expand its curriculum in nonlinear
dynamics into a fully integrated inter-
disciplinary program. Nonlinear
dynamics looks at the behavior of physical and social systems as they
evolve in time. “This grant allows us to address one of the most urgent
problems facing science educators, namely the pedagogical dilemma of
relating the abstraction of science to everyday life experience,” said
Steve Desjardins, associate dean of the college and associate professor
of chemistry.

This grant places Washington and Lee as one of the first institu-
tions in the U.S., especially liberal arts universities, to incorporate
teaching and research in the integrated and interdisciplinary way
described in the proposal.

Faculty involved with creating the proposal were Steve
Desjardins, who will serve as program director; ‘Tyler Lorig, professor of
psychology; ‘Tom Williams, professor of physics; David Sukow, assistant
professor of physics and engineering; Mike Evans, professor of mathe-

matics; Mike Pleva, professor of chemistry; Alan McRae, assistant pro-

Grants

 

 

fessor of mathematics, and Rance Necaise, assistant professor of com-

puter science.

Faculty Search

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has awarded the University an

$800,000 grant to facilitate the hiring of new faculty at the junior and

intermediate levels who represent wide-ranging interests, abilities and
cultures.

“The University is in the midst of a transition due to the retire-

ment of a large number of senior

Enable faculty,” said George Carras, director

of foundations and corporate rela-

Lxating P Ti O27 4) WIS tions. “This gift will significantly

advance a University strategic prior-
ity to create a more broadly represented and inclusive community of
teachers and scholars.”

Laurent Boetsch °69, vice president for academic affairs and
dean of the college, noted, “We are fortunate to have had the capac-
ity over the years to attract and retain teacher/scholars who share our
commitment to the undergraduate liberal arts education and who are
dedicated to the values that distinguish a Washington and Lee edu-
cation—honor, civility, community and service. We are indebted to
the Mellon Foundation for so generously supporting our goal to
maintain a strong faculty.”

Over the next four years, nearly a third of W&Ls senior faculty
members will be eligible for retirement. The University recognizes
that in order to prepare students for a vastly changing world they must
learn to engage, understand and live alongside people that represent

different cultural backgrounds. “The University already has taken

 

 

Photo of kinetic mobiles in motion by Steve Desjardins

 

steps to increase the number of qualified
applicants from more diverse groups,” said
Boetsch. “This grant will enable us to take
better advantage of the opportunity afforded
by the overall faculty transition to broaden our
faculty demographics.”

The Mellon grant will provide funding
for tenure-track faculty members over a
seven-year hiring period. The proposed hires
fll into a range of disciplines in the humani-
ries and social sciences, including English,
history, theater, economics and foreign lan-

guage.

Field Service

We has received a $500,000 direct appro-
priation from Congress to expand the
Shepherd Poverty Program’s unique focus in
merging students’ academic study of poverty
with intensive field service projects.

‘The grant, part of an appropriation act
recently passed by Congress, was secured by
Sen. John W. Warner *49 and former Sen.
Charles Robb. David Bradley, executive
director of the National Community Action
Foundation, was instrumental in_ the
University’s grant proposal. Students in the
Shepherd Program study the complex origins,
obstacles and generational trends of poverty
while considering how their careers will
impact the poor. ‘The program’s interdiscipli-
nary studies are integrated with students’
hands-on work in health clinics, Legal Aid
offices and homeless shelters in Richmond,
Roanoke and Washington.

\We&L students have assisted hundreds
of people since the program began four years
ago. “Lam proud that Washington and Lee is
playing a lead role in the effort to reach out to
those most in need,” said Warner, chairman of
the Armed Services Committee and a mem-
ber of the Senate’s education panel. “The
point is to give the less fortunate the atten-
tion, training and tools necessary to climb up
and out of poverty.” With funds from the
grant, the Shepherd Program is expanding
service projects in Latin America, Kentucky
and West Virginia and cities including New
Orleans, Atlanta and New York. About 24
Wel undergraduates and law students, in

alliance with students at Berea, Morehouse

   

 

and Spelman colleges, will be working in
impoverished communities in those areas this

summer,

Clobal Stewardship

W&L has been awarded a grant from the

Christen A. Johnson Endeavor Foundation to

create the Program for Education in Global
Stewardship.

‘The grant pro-

vides $175,000 per
year for three years,
with the opportu-
nity to receive
funding for an addi-
tional two years. At

the end of the five-year
period, the Foundation will consider an
endowment for the program.

W&L recognizes the necessity to be
responsive to a rapidly changing world, and
this program in global education aims to
prepare students to think and act intercul-
William

Klingelhofer, director of international edu-

turally. “The program,” said
cation, “is not to create instant experts, but
rather to lay a foundation upon which stu-
dents and faculty may develop their skills,
knowledge and understanding of the world
within a global context.”

‘There are two components to the Global
Stewardship Program. ‘The certificate pro-
gram will provide students the opportunity to
pursue interests in international affairs and
would cover such topics as human geography
and culture, population growth, poverty and
healthcare. Students would also participate in
either an internship or study abroad experi-
ence. ‘The second component of the program,
Global Learning Across the Campus and
Curriculum, complements the certificate pro-
gram and will impact the W&L academic
community in a broader sense; faculty will be
encouraged to develop international semi-
nars, visiting scholars programs and interna-

tional travel opportunities for students.

Instant Access

‘The Booth Ferris Foundation awarded W&L
200,000 towards technologically enhanced

classrooms in the Williams School of

Commerce, Economics and Politics, which
will complement the University’s overall goal
to expand students’ opportunities in global
and international education.

“We want to create a classroom environ-
ment in which the faculty member and stu-
dents have instantaneous access to information
sources from the World Wide Web, from a local
computer, from a DVD player, from cable tele-
vision or any other electronic media,” said
Larry Peppers, dean of the C-school.

As an example, an economist interest-
ed in presenting a computerized simulation
of the economy can connect his or her lap-
top to the classroom network and project
the results using a high-resolution system.
Similarly, the politics professor teaching
environmental politics can access the EPA
graphics package via the World Wide Web
to display visual information on the geo-
graphic location of toxic waste dumps. Or, a
finance professor can jointly teach an inter-
national finance seminar with a colleague in

‘lokyo by accessing his Web page.

Manhattan Project

Frank Settle, professor of chemistry, and ‘Tom

Whaley, professor of computer science, have

received a grant from the National

Science Foundation total-

ing $224,000 to continue

work on a Web-based

project titled “The

Alsos Digital Library.”
This project fo-

cuses on the Manhattan

 

Project, the massive scien-

tific and technological effort that

“wr

The goal of

produced the first atomic bomb.
Alsos,” explained Settle, “is to provide a wide
range of references to resources for the study
of the Manhattan Project to as large an audi-
ence as possible. We anticipate this project will
strengthen the quality of education by con-
necting different disciplines, issues and ideas
surrounding nuclear energy.” Alsos was the
code name for the U.S. Army’s intelligence
unit assigned to collect information on
German atomic bomb projects during World
War IT. (hetp://alsos.wlu.edu)

 

 

     
   

  

From the well-established 7he

THE Of ce Sec. mm, my We > am

The Seedling covers Christian

Ring-tum Phi to the brand new She ONE CAMPUS, topics, while Una Vox “gives a
Says, the conservative Spectator to MANY VOICES voice to those who generally don’t

the liberal Una Vox, artsy Ane/ to

academic Journal of Science, stu-

have one on campus, such as

minority, international, gay/lesbian

Agnes Flak ’03, Una Vox discusses

dent publications are thriving at Ohe King-tum {hi and women students,” says editor
5 —_ — '

W&L. Last winter She Says pro-
duced its first issue, and both the
Journal of Science and Una Vox
started up again after several
years’ hiatus.

In its 103rd year, 7he Ring-
tum Phi, a weekly newspaper, is
the oldest student publication on
campus. Founded as a rival week-
ly in 1993 by Leigh Allen °94 and
Gregory Patterson '94, The Trident
also focuses on student life and
campus news.

Student writers for the politi-

cally conservative Spectator twice

NEW PUBLICATIONS STAND PROUDLY

intercultural issues and promotes
diversity.” She Says, started by
Melissa Sills “00 and Nancy
Reinhart 00, celebrates women’s
issues through prose, poetry and
artwork. “Women were underrep-
resented on campus,” says editor
Darlene Mitrano ’02. “We wanted
a forum that focused on women.”
Ariel, the student literary maga-
zine, allows students to publish
creative work—essays, poems,
short stories, as well as paintings

and photographs.

yearly “lampoon both University RESIDE MEE TRADITIONAL PHI. The publications receive

and national policies that we think

are silly,” says editor Greg Valentine ’01. 7he Political Review allows
students to express diverse political views on a chosen subject. “The
purpose of the journal is to extend political discourse beyond the
classroom and into the greater community. We want to spark discus-
sion,” says co-editor Kathie Soroka ’01. Students in the sciences also
have an opportunity to share their research in the Journal of Science;

the latest issue addressed overpopulation.

j. A «sh. Oo 7 THE WiLD

Chopping turkey skin for dog snacks, hunting cari-
bou and driving a dogsled across barren tundra are
not what most students look for in an internship. But
when Stephanie Miller ’02 ran across a job posting
for Austin’s Alaska Adventures on the Internet, she
was intrigued.

Miller and boyfriend, Rett Stook "99, decided
to take the road less traveled (literally) and went to
work for Jerry and Clara Austin last October, tending
and training sled dogs and leading mushing trips out
of the tiny island town of Saint Michael, Alaska.
Although initially frustrated by her own inexperi-
ence, Miller, a New Jersey native, says learning all
the required skills of a musher—from fixing dog-
houses to tracking game—has proven rewarding.

But the high point has been interacting with
the dogs. “When I first arrived [in Alaska], I was

overwhelmed by caring for 58 dogs,” she recalls,

 

funding through various sources
such as deans, the Executive Committee, private foundations,
alumni contributions, advertising and subscriptions. Many have fac-
ulty advisors. Whatever the subject or point of view, students are
sure to find a place to express themselves. You can bet that if it does-
n’t exist yet, it soon will.

—Il_ort Stevens

“but after working with them, I know each one’s
personality, likes and dislikes, funny traits, etc. Rett
and I often will spend time just talking about the
dogs and things that they have done that day.”
One of Miller’s and Stook’s canine charges
actually ran in the Iditarod this year. Musher Bruce
Moroney borrowed an Austin dog named Mask for
his team, and Miller and Stook flew to Nome to see
Mask cross the finish line of the 1,141-mile race.
“When we took her back to Saint Michael,” Miller
says, “we fed her tons of snacks and gave her lots of
attention because we were so proud of her.”
Although the geology major has missed the
trees and verdant mountains of Virginia, Miller
expects her time on the tundra will play a big part in
her post-graduation plans: “I really want to have my
own dog team someday and to live permanently in

Alaska.” —Il aura Parsons

 

 

THE COLONNADE

 

 

 

The proposed new art and music building will be named after
former University President John D.Wilson and his wife,
Anne, at the request of Gerry Lenfest °53, *55L

and his wife, Marguerite. The Lenfests

  

recently made a $15 million gift to
Washington and Lee that has put the
University closer to realizing the con-
struction requirements of the Board’s
strategic initiatives. The art and
music building is a part of that plan.

‘The announcement came dur-
ing the annual meeting of the
Washington Society on March 24.
Wilson, who was president from 1983 to
1995, also was made an honorary member of
that group, which assists the University with
fund raising and communications.

Wilson was president when the Lenfests made an enabling
gift coward construction and endowment of a new performing arts
facility, che Lenfest Center for Performing Arts, which this year cel-
ebrated its 10th anniversary. Wilson insisted that it be named for the
lLenfests in recognition. “That building—the Lenfest Center—is
really John Wilson’s building,” said Lenfest. “It was his dream, his
idea to bring the performing arts to Lexington, not only for the fac-
ulty and students but for the people who live here.”

So when Lenfest made his most recent gift, he spoke with
President John Elrod about his one request: that the new art and

Reynolds to the Rescue

A life-sized portrait of George Washington
by Gilbert Stuart (1755-1828) was rescued
from the auction block when the Donald
W. Reynolds Foundation ponied up $30
million to buy the painting from Lord
Harry Dalmeny of Great Britain, who is
deputy director of Sotheby’s auction house
in London.

(‘he painting had been in the

Ualmeny family for 100 years and on loan

to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of
American History since 1968. The $30
million includes $20 million for the paint-

ing, 54 million to create a new space for it

in the museum and $6 million to send it on

JOHN AND ANNE WILSON

 

music building be named for the Wilsons. Wilson, a classical

music lover who Lenfest says exhibits “complete humil-
ity,” resisted the idea, saying he thought it more
appropriate to be named for someone else.

‘The Lenfests were not deterred.
At the announcement, Wilson said,
“I don’t know what to say. I think,
sometimes, it is possible to protest too
much. I am deeply flattered, as you
know, Gerry. And I’m deeply grateful
that you would give this huge sum of
your own resources to this University
and in our name to the program in arts
and music. ‘That we will be connected to
Washington and Lee for perpetuity is a

deeply moving moment for us.”
In a letter to the Lenfests, Wilson wrote, “My
13 years in Lexington are the happiest years of our lives, and we
left in 1995 showered with goodies and signs of affection. ‘To be
honored further, and in such a dramatic way, is well beyond
deserving. Anne joins me in expressing our heartfelt gratitude for
your unprecedented generosity and for the love that accompa-
nies your most recent gift to Washington and Lee.”

‘The building, which will be adjacent to the Lenfest Center,

is scheduled to begin construction in 2002, with completion in
2004.

pers. Dozens of these newspapers were
sold to Stephens Inc., owned by Warren
Stephens °79, of Little Rock, Ark., and for-
mer member of the W&L Board of
‘Trustees. (This same Reynolds Founda-
tion has provided W&L with $1.5 million
for the Reynolds chair in business journal-
ism. See page 27.)

Washington and Lee owns a similar
painting of Washington, which hangs in
Leyburn Library. ‘Tom Litzenburg °57,
director of the Reeves Center, said W&L’s
painting probably is one of the copies
done by Stuart after his three originals,
which were painted in 1796. Hence, it
the value of the

does not have

Smithsonian piece. W&L’s painting is a

a tour of the U.S.

‘he Reynolds Foundation in Las

Vegas was created upon the death of

Donald Reynolds who owned 52 newspa-

gift of Jonathan W. Warner °40 and the

David Warner Foundation.

 

 

THE ay. TS) A. a ee ey > ee:

 

 

Bookshelf

 

Prize Winner

R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah: 7he
Washington and Lee University Review, has
added Messenger, the second volume of
the trilogy “Dreaming in Irish,” to his
already extensive list of poetry publica-
tions, including 77espasser and Split the
Lark. These poems are set in Ireland, in
the pine flats of the deep South and in
the Blue Ridge Mountains. Smith
recently won the Richard Hugo Prize

for Poetry.

THE POPE'S BODY

 

Mortal Popes

David Peterson, assistant professor of
history, has translated Agostino
Paravicini-Bagliani’s The Pope's Body
from Italian to English. ‘The book
explores the tensions and paradoxes in
the relationship between the divine
papal office and its mortal occupants by
examining the rituals of humiliation
that accompanied the consecration of
new popes, the elixirs and other devices
by which popes attempted to prolong
their mortal lives and even the embalm-
ing techniques used to prepare the
popes’ bodies for exposition after their

deaths.

oseph Martinez, associate
professor of theater, co-stars with his flock of
chickens in a documentary film that was shown at
this year’s Sundance Film Festival. Sections of
“The Natural Life of the Chicken,” were shot on
location at his farm in Collierstown and focused
on how he raises chickens as part of a sustainable
rural lifestyle.
“I’ve been involved in some form of agricul-

ture since the early 1970s,” said Martinez, “but I

THIS FILM IS

FOR THE BIRDS

’

ca

THEATER PROFESSOR MARTINEZ

 

started raising chickens only a few years ago. I’m
interested in sustainable agriculture and growing
the meat, fruits and vegetables for my family in
an organic way. I farm for a hobby and because of
a commitment I have to a particular way of life. I
believe it is important for my children to be
exposed to the natural cycles of life and death.
Living on a farm provides a daily reminder of our
responsibility to our environment.”

His flock fluctuates from about 10 to 50 hens
and a rooster, depending upon the season. He
and his family also raise sheep and are introduc-
ing rabbits to the menagerie.

The documentary’s director, Mark Lewis,
was interested in Martinez because he raises ani-
mals in an old-fashioned way. “My chickens have
free run of the farm,” he explained, “and I try to
honor their contribution to our well-being by
being respectful of them. I do my own harvesting
of the chickens—as I seek a greater level of self-
sufficiency in our food supply.”

Martinez call himself a fortunate man: “I am
afforded the opportunity to pursue a Career as a
teacher/artist at W&L, while at the same time liv-
ing a peaceful, thoughtful life close to the land.

Ball, Klinedinst Move to Board

Chris B. Ball of Jacksonville, Fla., and John
Klinedinst °71, *78L. were sworn in as
members of the W&L Board of ‘Trustees
at the spring meeting, May 18-19.

Ball is a 1969 graduate of Hollins
College and a 1965 alumna of The
Westminster Schools in Atlanta. Active in
numerous civic and charitable affairs in
Jacksonville, Ball has maintained an inter-
est in education. She is past chairman of
the board of the Bolles School and is a
trustee of the University of North Florida
Foundation, which assists with fundraising
for scholarships and faculty initiatives. Ball
also is a former trustee of the Wolfson
Children’s Hospital, among many civic
activities. Chris Ball and her husband,
Willis M. (Billy) W&L ’69, are the parents
of three children, all W&L alumni: Butler,
96, Christopher 00 and Sallie 01. The
Balls are members of the W&L Parents
Council, and Billy Ball is a member of
W&Ls Alumni Board and the Athletic
Hall of Fame selection committee.

Klinedinst is founder and managing
partner of Klinedinst, Flicehman &
McKillop, in San Diego. He received his
B.A. in history, cum laude, from W&L in
1971, an M.B.A. from George Washington
University in 1975, and his J.D. from
W&L in 1979. As an undergraduate,
Klinedinst was a member of the football
team, the Student Activities Board and Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity. Since graduation,
Klinedinst has served as president of the
San Diego alumni chapter (1980-89), as a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors
(1986-90) and as president of the Alumni
Association (1989-90). He also has served
as a member of the Law Council (1993-97)
and as director of the Washington Society
(1996-00). He serves currently as Annual
for his law. class.

Fund class agent

Klinedinst was presented with the
Distinguished Alumnus Award in May
1993 and was a recipient of the 250th
Chapter Honoree Award in May 1999.
Klinedinst and his wife, Cynthia, live in

Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.

 

 

THE COLONNADE

Fourteen W&L travelers flew to New Zealand in February for the Alumni College’s third
trip to the land of the Kiwis. After a week of exploring Auckland and the lush Bay of Islands
on the North Island, we flew to the South Island and Queenstown for “the finest guided walk
‘» the world,” a hike on the Milford ‘Track. The ‘Track runs 33 miles through Fiordland
National Park from Lake T Anau to Milford Sound.

Braced by a healthy anxiety on the eve of departure, we wondered, “Should we have

bought more polypropylene? Would our packs be too heavy for the four-day trek? Had we

CAPTAIN’S LOG:
NEW ZEALAND’S GREAT OUTDOORS

VIEWS OF A GLACIER-RIMMED ALPINE VALLEY TREATED WEARY HIKERS.

 

roken in our new hiking boots sufficiently? Would we be up to the challenge of the strenu-
ous distance?” We found comfort in each other’s nervous encouragement. Nancy and Charlie
Scone ’70 and Ed Spencer ’53, geology professor, were our most experienced hikers, offering
nany helpful hints. “No need to worry about snakes!” Spencer reassured. Except for the ubiq-
uitous sandflies, New Zealand has no predators, very few

: : \ insects and absolutely gorgeous scenery—ideal hiking con-
Find this summer's Y BONE ry 6

. ditions.
Alumni College _
a . .
’ Day two was the most challenging, from Lake Mintaro to
schedule on a .
hy Mackinnon Pass at 3,400 feet, where a spectacular view of the
the back cover. ra
e glacier-rimmed alpine valley revealed the long, rocky descent

that awaited us. Walking sticks became necessary companions.
“New Zealand’s Great Outdoors” showed us much of the country’s wondrous beauty. But
the lasting souvenir of our trip will be the camaraderie, not only among the W&L travelers but
iso with people sharing the Track with us
‘rom all over the world. Indeed, Professor
Spencer, affectionately nicknamed “Dr.
Kock ” is now famous. His lectures on
New Zealand geology drew everyone
gether at the end of each spectacular
Loe
lo learn more about the W&L
\lumni College campus and travel pro-
‘rams, check out our Web site at

ww.alumnicollege.wlu.edu

 

 

 

 

Summer Reading

Good Counsel, a fast-paced drama
about the high price of professional
success, by ‘lim Junkin °73, is so
compelling, “You won't want to stop

for meals, even,” said one reviewer.

No Visible
\}

sn
A% p , ‘i vr
pans oF MUNDO
¥ Ae

TWA

 

Vintage Stuart

Dabney Stuart, the S. Blount Mason
Jr. Professor of English, has pub-
lished a short story collection, No
Visible Means of Support. Vhe stories
focus on basic human predicaments:
the sorrow of loss, the mysteries of
creation, the persistence and

resilience of the spirit.

 

Quintessentially Southern

Doors, a new collection of short sto-
ries by William Hoffman °53, pre-
sents a Southern landscape peopled
by rednecks and white-collar elites
who are constantly at odds with their

circumstances.

THE om Ye ty. a ae ey ee

Fancy Dress. As | sucked in my stomach to jam myself into the old penguin suit,
I stopped to reminisce about my last three Fancy Dress Balls. Then it hit me—I
remembered virtually nothing! Well, dag nabbit, I was sure as heck going to remem-
ber every second of this year’s dance. I wanted the ball to be everything I had ever
dreamed and more. I wanted it to be wild, exciting and romantic. OK. Reality check.

‘This was only Fancy Dress, not some

fairy-tale ball. And, let’s face it, | am

THE BIG NIGHT

no Prince Charming.

As my date, Susan Woodward '03,
and I entered the gym by way of the
red carpet, we were accosted by vari-
ous not-completely-sober friends. ‘The
girls compared dresses and giggled
about their misadventures at dinner;
we guys gave each other five and
addressed each other with the quintes-
sential male greeting/inquiry, “What's
up?” It was strange to see everyone all
decked out. I laughed to myself as I
saw girls in Cinderella gowns who had
just that afternoon been sporting
sweatpants and flip-flops.
made the standard

After we

i ates erat he ena,
er. oa rounds, my date grabbed my hand and

ALL DECKED OUT.

SAM EVANS

WOODWARD ’O3 rushed me into the Warner Center

 

gym to see the decorations. The

theme for the March 23 event was Mardi Gras, “Laissez Les Bons ‘Temps Rouler”
(“let the good times roll,” to be precise, though I couldn’t pronounce that if I tried),
and as we entered the New Orleans street set, I started feeling déja vu all over again.
Feeling the mysterious headache that had haunted me ever since the real Mardi
Gras return, | opted to peruse Doremus Gym instead.

Doremus was packed, and almost everyone was dancing. Suddenly, the band
starting playing a fast swing song, and Susan grabbed my arm. Before entering the
dance floor, or as I prefer to call it, the Circle of Death, I recited a silent prayer,
adjusted my cummerbund and dove in. Hundreds of carefree couples were attempt-
ing to swing, flailing arms and legs in every direction. Guys spun their dates, who
gained enormous amounts of torque before being released, flying through the gym
like Ferris wheels out of control. Honestly, I maintain that anyone brave enough to
venture onto the dance floor during Fancy Dress should wear full pads. Here are
some suggestions. For guys: kneepads, shoulder pads and a back brace (for those
unexpected dips). Girls: steel-toed boots! Granted, you won't look as glamorous, but
you won’t have to ice your dogs down for the next week.

Once we had danced for what seemed to me like decades, we looked at our
watches and realized it was 12:30 a.m. Feeling like I had just barely survived a Mike
‘Tyson title match, I opted for some fresh air. As we walked toward the sober driver,
the moment was bittersweet as I realized my Fancy Dress Ball days were over. It may
not have been a fairy-tale ball. The coaches didn’t turn into pumpkins at midnight.
But it was truly a night to remember. Hey, I’m just glad I didn’t turn into a frog.

—Sam Evans °01

M

 

Life Is a Cabaret

Just two weeks before Fancy Dress, the
Minority Student Association hosted its third
annual Cabaret on March 10 in Doremus
Gym. Among the students, faculty and staff
enjoying the semi-formal affair were Selen
Okcuoglu °02, ‘Tolulope Olubunmi ’02 and
Latoya Sherron °03. Band leader Bernard
Hairston and friends, including singer Jane
Powell, entertained with jazz and ‘lop 40

numbers.

The Dog Ate Their Book Lasts

‘Iwo freshmen in a Management Information
Systems class have one up on their professors.
During a class survey project,

Will Baker

Wilbourn found that if

and jim
professors turned in
their book lists soon-
er—especially for
those classes in which a
text will be used again—students from the
previous term would receive more money sell-
ing their books back, and new term students
would have a better chance finding a used
COPpy.

Textbook buyer Brenda Reese explained
that early submissions allow the bookstore
more time to find used copies from eight
wholesalers who buy books from students on
the store’s behalf. If orders come in at the last
minute, only new books can be purchased. At
this Spring ‘Term ordering deadline, only 30
percent of book lists had been submitted.

In The Trident student newspaper, Lewis
John °58, professor of politics admitted that
professors are susceptible to procrastination,

just like students. 4

Photo by Cindy Moore

 

SNAPSHOT

CATHY GARTIN (RED)

AND TRICIA COUGHLIN

a

(BLUE)

ON THE SET AT CNN.

‘Ted ‘Turner was still the big man on campus when we started at CNN,
just a few weeks after graduating from W&L in 1995. We used to tell
people that one-third of the ‘T'V broadcast journalism majors from our
eraduating class worked for CNN. That was true, since there were
only about nine, and we were three.

l here we were—Cathy Gartin,
LaKeisha

Clou shlin

‘Townes, and_ ‘Tricia
all making the same low
salary and working the same strange
hours, with no holidays off. After all,
the news never stops at the so-called World News Leader.

it’s funny to look back, after almost six years, and see how things
have changed and how our lives have changed. As entry level VJs
(video journalists), those first years seemed almost like being fresh-
men again. We were at the absolute bottom. VJs rip scripts for the
anchors (some of whom are unruly) and control room staff (many of
whom are pranksters), operate the TelePrompTer
(sull paper, back then), floor direct and hope to be
promoted quickly to the next step. And just how did
we live on those salaries anyway?

Now, there are only two of us (LaKeisha left in
January for a new opportunity). Cathy is a tape pro-
ducer in the newsroom and Tricia is working as a
T'\V/Web producer for CNN Interactive. We all fol-
lowed very winding roads to get to where we are.
We've seen this company change from being part of
turner Broadcasting, a somewhat small but well-
established enterprise, to being part of AOL Time
Warner, the world’s largest multimedia corporation. In

the early years, many cherished the “family” that

W
, gs | a. es & Zee in

 

Watching the World

Headline News

Climbing the Ladder

Like those baby
boomers who can
remember exactly where
they were when John F.
Kennedy was assassinat-
ed, we know exactly

where we are when

history is made: CNN.

BY

Tricia Coughlin 95
and Cathy Gartin "95

/ Le im >» & I MN 1

developed at CNN. Now that CNN has become part of a vast multi-
media empire, some feel CNN is slowly losing that feel. However,
despite the vast corridors, constant changes, different departments
and offbeat schedules that have become a part of our lives, the three
of us from the class of "95 have kept
in touch and held tughtly to our
W&L family.

I'll (Tricia) never forget my first
day of orientation. As my supervisor
showed me the area where all the
VJ’s worked, nobody really seemed to be doing anything. Cathy
explained that since we were wall-to-wall in O.J. Simpson coverage,
there really was not much for us to do. However, we were soon to have
one of our first breaking news experiences. Over the loudspeaker, we
were instructed by the supervising producer not to show any emotion
as the verdict was read. Cameras from other news networks were
rolling within our newsroom, recording CNN’s cover-
age of the story. Some of us secretly placed wagers on
whether we thought O.J. would be found guilty or
innocent. When the verdict came, not a single reac-
tion could be heard from the newsroom.

For almost six years now, our careers have been
shaped by historical events: the —T'WA 800, the
Centennial Park bombing, Princess Diana’s death,
John FE. Kennedy Jr.’s death, Monica Lewinsky and
President Clinton, Elian Gonzalez, the 2000 election.
Like those baby boomers who can remember exactly
where they were when John FE. Kennedy was assassi-
nated, we know exactly where we are when history is

made: CNN, #

 

Richard Butler, diplomat in residence at
the Council on Foreign Relations in New
York, reminded graduating Washington
and Lee law students of their legal her-
itage as Americans and of their obligation
to be mindful of the law as they enter a
world in which many decisions have glob-
al consequences.

Butler, who has had a distinguished
and, more recently, a somewhat controver-
sial foreign service career, spoke to 119
graduates at Commencement exercises on
campus May 13.

“There is a disjunction that occurs
between the executive branch that has
the power to sign treaties and the
Congress that gives permission to ratify
them. This puzzles people overseas,”
Butler said.

“The United States has a growing
tendency to seek to exclude itself from
widely agreed upon international stan-
dards,” he continued. One recent exam-
ple is the United States’ refusal to sign a
treaty outlawing land mines because it
believes they are useful in protecting

“r

South Korea from North Korea. “To make
itself the law unto itself is practically the same as obeying no law. It’s
a problem.”

Butler speaks from an extraordinary vantage point. From 1997
to 1999, he was executive chairman of the United Nations Special
Commission (UNSCOM) charged with the disarmament of Iraq.
Butler led teams of inspectors who attempted to elimintate Iraq’s
biological, chemical and nuclear weapons capability and long-range
missiles. UNSCOM was created by the U.N. Security Council in
1991 after the Gulf War, when economic sanctions against Iraq were
introduced.

In 1998, after U.S.-British air and missile attacks (dubbed
“Desert Fox”) on Iraqi targets, UNSCOM’s operations were sus-
pended. Since then, Baghdad has refused to fulfill disarmament
obligations and there is a widening rift on the U.N. Security Council
on how to deal with Saddam Hussein. While inspectors were
thwarted by Iraqi lies and harassment, UNSCOM also sometimes
found itself under attack—particularly when charges were brought

by the Russians that U.S. intelligence agencies had conducted their

 

Law Commencement

With Law, Duty

At Home,

own surveillance under the guise of pro-
viding support to the inspection unit.
Butler rejected these charges.

Butler left the post on June 30, 1999,
in frustration, feeling let down by the
U.N. He still believes Hussein is one of
the most menacing rulers in the world. In
his book, released last spring, 74e Greatest
Threat: Iraq, Weapons of Mass Destruction
and the Crisis of Global Security,” Butler
writes, “When a determined criminal
flouts international law under the princi-
ple of state sovereignty, the world system,
as currently constituted, appears unwill-
ing or unable to stop him.” A reviewer for
The New York Times called the book “a
primer on the difficulties of enforcing any
international arms control agreement
when a country believes it is not in the
national interest to comply.”

Butler has urged the United States to
reclaim the leadership in disarmament
that it had after World War II. He predicts
that Hussein will be a test for President
Abroad George W. Bush, just as he was for his
father, and he has no doubt that Iraq is
rebuilding its arsenal, stocking up on
chemical and biological weapons and, once again, attempting to
make nuclear weapons.

Prior to UNSCOM and his recent appointment to the Council
on Foreign Affairs, a nonpartisan membership organization,
research center and publisher, Butler already had impressive cre-
dentials in the disarmament arena.

Early in his career, he served as Australia’s representative for
the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. In 1983, he
became Australia’s first Ambassador for Disarmament, leading the
Australian delegation to the Conference on Disarmament in
Geneva. In 1989, he was appointed Australian Ambassador to
‘Thailand; in 1991, he also represented Australia on the Supreme
National Council of Cambodia, becoming deeply involved in the
negotiation of the Cambodian peace agreement.

In 1996, he managed the adoption by the United Nations of
the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban ‘Treaty. As Australia’s
Ambassador to the United Nations, he had, according to The New

York Times, “outsmarted India to save the Comprehensive ‘Test Ban

“Never forget that the law imposes duties of a moral character; it doesn’t just
define the rights of individuals.”

BY

Deborah Marquardt

 

 

» from premature death in an interna- MINGLE AN D MOTIVATE

CEECTORS. Law school can seem pretty tough from a stu- Special guest for the event, Robert J.
Hale olds degrees from. the : Pine ; .
Butler h ” } dent’s point of view. Returning alumni—the — Grey Jr. ’76L, delivered a particularly inspira-
sity of Sydney and the Australian , ayia

, ) | survivors—can provide encouragement, shar- _ tional message to the group. Grey ts a partner
National , ' * sail
ing experiences and personal successes from with the Richmond law firm of LeClair Ryan,

University. + ; ‘

F 1997 to 1999, he the real world. March 30-31 was just such a and served as chair of the American Bar
rom

Additionally, he

executive chairman weekend at the School of Law, as 25 minority _Association’s House of Delegates from 1998-
was was made a doc- ee ;
of the United Nations . alumni from afar away as Los Angeles gath- 2000. In that seat, Grey became a member of
me tor of the unt- , . =" eehesale

Special Commission ered for the first reunion sponsored by 74e a very elite group of Virginians who have held

: versity by the ; ‘ ns
(UNSCOM) charged a R.E.A.L. Journal, BLSA and AASLA. Of the — high ABA posts. One other W&L Law
University of ; + ;
with the disarmament weekend’s guests, several are solo practition- School graduate to serve as House of

New England,

of Iraq. ers, many work for law firms large and small,a Delegates chair and later as ABA president
Australia, in ; 3 ies ert
few work in government positions and one _ was Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. °29, °31L, who
1996.

came from a “big Five” accounting firm. died in 1998.

Butler has seen lawlessness up close.
He has witnessed countries defy the law.
In one instance, he describes a conversa-
with Hussein’s missile general in
Baghdad. “I said to him, ‘You’re trying to

make missiles that will fly long distance.

Stop it. it’s against the law.’ He said, ‘]
\

\eainst this background, Butler chal-
lenged W&L graduates: “What has hap-
pened to the lawyer in this country? This
country was founded on law. Almost no

R FROM LEFT, FRONT ROW: WYNDALL IVEY ’99L; LAURA ANDERSON WRIGHT ’94L; ERIKA

other countries are founded on law in a DAVIS "O2L; JOURNET SHAW ’O3L; MELISSA AMOS YOUNG ’92L; SANDRA ROBINSON ’90OL;
comparable w ay. Just think. a small group AUTUMN HWANG ’O2L. SECOND ROW: PHYLISSA "MITCH’ MITCHELL ’O1L; JUDY NICKS ’84L;

MICHAEL SPENCER ’96L; JAMES WILLIAMS ’98L; THOMAS BAUGH °77L; LESLIE RENEE
SMITH ’9OL; SUZANNE TAKATA ’O3L; MELANIE LEE ’O1L; PRANITA RAGHAVAN ’O2L; LOREN
1//t ind wrote a Declaration of Weiss ’O1L. BACK ROW: PROFESSOR BLAKE MORANT; EUGENE BUTLER ’98L; JOHN HENRY
"98L; BRANDON MARZO ’99L; WALLACE TRUESDALE ’96L; JAMES RAMBEAU ’91, ’95L;

of men closeted themselves in a room in

 

Independence and a Constitution. For the r ‘ 1
WILLIAM TOLES ’92, ’9SL: NAKISHA SHARPE ’O1L: CANTRELL JONES ’O1L; JAMES

first time in the history of human civiliza- GUILLORY ’O1L AND KENNETH WINKFIELD ’92L.
tion, we had a republic of individuals
whose equality was guaranteed by law—a

| — : Lewts Le 1 Grows
whole country defined and prescribed by a LOIS LKZACY GTOWS
constitution. This is very, very important.

Professor Scott Sundby, currently director of the Frances Lewis Law Center, has been awarded the

‘loo many now see the law as a way . , . i is nw: ss ,
Sydney and Frances Lewis Professorship of Law. ‘This chair honors the generous contributions of the

to Make money, to take advantage, who see pie et

| ! : . - Lewis family to Washington and Lee.

a | iegree as a license to print money. i : ;

Ihe Lewises funded Sydney Lewis Hall and

and lawyers are too often held in : .

: . endowed the Law Center, which provides for guest edu-
pute,” he said. ba

. cators and supports faculty research. ‘hey also have

butler admonished, “Never forget :

endowed several scholarships. Syndey Lewis, a former

> law imposes duties of a moral char- a aaa

W&L trustee, died in March 1999. Frances Lewis also

icter; 1¢ doesn’t just define the rights of
| ee ; has served as a trustee.
individuals. It flows from this that on every — Fe
Sundby ts a graduate of Vanderbilt University

ion that the law is served, no matter
and Cornell Law School. He taught at the

inwelcome this may be in practical ee ; aaa aia :
University of California, Hastings College of Law

 

5 tO some interested parties, the act of , : - : oaae * = FRANCES LEWIS WITH PROFESSOR
| : et 1 from 1984 to 1992 before joining W&L. In addition ScoTT SUNDBY FOR THE DEDICA-
‘ying the system of the rule of law . de Stl ge

to teaching, he has served as director of the Virginia TION OF THE PROFESSORSHIP ON
preserves an overall system—the repub- tdbphihch a acetate

Capital Case Clearinghouse, a legal practice clinic,
trom which we all benefit.
which advises the defense counsel who represent capital defendants.

\\ ; , , J HT A | M N MAGaAZIN

Baseball is one of Washington and Lee's oldest
sports, dating to Robert E. Lee’s days. ‘Through the
years, the Generals have seen some successes, but
none more sensational than those of the past three
years.

No doubt the addition of Cap’n Dick Smith
Field in 1999 was one reason for the re-energized
team. Another may very well be the play of senior
pitcher David Sigler. Over the last three seasons,
the baseball team has recorded a 64-35 overall
the ODAC

‘Tournament. This season’s team posted a 23-8

record and twice advanced to
overall mark, breaking the school record for wins in
a season, with junior Matt Kozora leading the team
in hitting at .398 and driving in a team-high 28 runs.

With a young roster in 2001 that included just
two seniors, two juniors, seven sophomores and 10
freshmen, Sigler was the glue that held the team
together. A team captain and the ace of the pitching
staff, he ended his career with a 21-15 overall record
and a 3.62 earned run average (ERA). He also holds
or is tied for nine records and is second all-time in
career wins and strikeouts.

Sigler arrived at W&L in the fall of 1997 fol-
lowing a stellar playing career at Lampeter-
Strasburg High School in Pennsylvania. He went 9-
2 on the mound as a senior, tossing two no-hitters
and putting together a streak of 48 consecutive
scoreless innings.

Everything pointed toward Sigler having a
great freshman campaign, but it was not to be.
Collegiate baseball was tougher than he thought.
“Division III was a lot better than I expected it to
be,” said the 5-foot-11, 175-pound right-hander.
“The quality of the play, especially in the ODAC, is
pretty good.” He went 0-5 for the season and
allowed an average of 6.05 earned runs per game.
“After that first year, | knew I needed to work
harder,” said Sigler.

‘That didn’t just mean working harder on the
mound. Sigler focused on the mental aspect of the

game as well. “I started stopping by the sports infor-

mation office and checking out the box scores of

games from the previous season,” he said. “You can
learn a lot from looking at statistics. Who hits for
average? Who hits for power? Who is likely to try
and steal if they get on? ‘That kind of preparation
will help you on the mound.”

And it did. In his second season, he tied a
school record with eight wins and notched a 3.08
ERA. ‘The team won a record 21 games and

advanced to the ODAC Championship game.

GENERALS’ REPORT

STRONG ARM,
KING OF THE MOUND

SCHOOL RECORDS ARE MADE TO BE
BROKEN. JUST ASK DAVID SIGLER ’O1.

 

“A pitcher is only as good

as the rest of the team.”
BY

Brian Laubscher

Sigler earned First ‘Team All-ODAC and Second
‘Team All-South Region honors. “We knew the tal-
ent was there all along,” said Head Coach Jeff
Suckley.

Sigler followed up his breakout year with
another outstanding season, finishing 7-5 with a 3.99
ERA and a school-record 77 strikeouts. Among his
wins was perhaps the greatest pitching performance
in W&L history: He defeated Bridgewater College,
2-1, in 13 innings. He tossed all 13 innings, surren-
dering one run in the first frame and pitching the
next 12 scoreless. “He was getting tired by the end,
but he just kept going,” said Stickley. “We knew he
was our best chance to win.” Stckley’s confidence
in Sigler gave him a needed boost. Sigler’s perfor-
mance that day started a stretch of 20 consecutive
scoreless innings, which ended during the final
frame of a 10-1 win over fifth-ranked Virginia
Wesleyan.

‘This season was Sigler’s best. He went 6-2 on
the mound with a 2.86 ERA. He struck out 48 bat-
ters, while walking only 16 and guided the younger
pitchers to a 17-6 record. Yet no mater how well he
was doing individually, the team came first.

“Winning games and setting records are great,
because it means the team is winning, and that’s
what really matters,” said Sigler. “A pitcher is only
as good as the rest of the team. ‘The offense has to
score runs, and the fielders have to make the plays
behind me.”

Equally important to Sigler and the team was
the development of young arms. “We have some
pretty talented young guys who are really going to
help take the program to the next level,” he said.
The pitching staff included five freshmen and two
sophomores. “If I can show them what I’ve learned,
then maybe they'll be even better for it. Studying
the statistics and making sure you don't cut corners
with such things as running and workouts can make
all the difference.”

With this season’s record-setting number of
wins, Sigler will be credited with more than his per-
formance. “He’s certainly helped us step up the
program,” said Stickley. “He has demonstrated
leadership to the guys on our team. Hopefully, they
will follow his example.”

For Sigler, nothing would be more satisfying—
except, perhaps, one more chance at winning an
ODAC Championship. If the younger pitchers
remember his tutorials, he may get that chance next
year, at least in spirit. Find the results at

www.wlu.edu/sports/

Spring Recap

Men's Lacrosse: (Sec inside back

COVCI./

Women’s Lacrosse: The Generals

have opened some cyes around the
nation with a 15-2 overall record, the
most wins in school history. W&L
claimed the ODAC championship over

| wnchburg by a score of 6-2 on April 29,
eivine the Generals their third ODAC
NCAA

‘Tournament. Senior attacker Liz Borges

title and a trip to the

has notched 42 goals and 14 assists and
earned National Player of the Week
honors for the week of March 19.
Freshman goalie Joanna Perini has been
solid and holds the country’s ninth-best

save percentage (.642).

KELLY TAFFE HELPED LEAD W&LWOMEN TOA

Track & Field: ‘he women’s team has
been paced by the all-around effort of
senior Amy Calce, who broke her own school record in the long jump (16
3/4 feet) at the ODAC Championships on April 28. Junior Sarah Schmidt
also claimed her third consecutive ODAC javelin title (120 1/3 feet). ‘The
men’s squad has been led by junior Mare Watson and sophomore Chris
Sullivan. Watson placed third in the 100-meter dash and seventh in the
200-meter dash at the ODAC Championships, while Sullivan won the

long-jump ttle (22 1/6 feet) at Bridgewater.

Women’s Tennis: ‘lhe Generals are ranked No. 3 in Division II] and won
their 1 1th straight ODAC Championship on April 29, claiming all six sin-
gles and three doubles crowns. Junior Melissa Hatley was named ODAC
Player of the Year after winning the No. 1 singles title. Sophomore Alyson
Brice posted the team’s top record (23-3), playing mostly at the No. 5 sin-

gles. lhe Generals, 17-2 overall, now move to the NCAA Championships.

Men's Tennis: Despite a young lineup, W&L won its 20th ODAC
Championship in the last 25 years and is awaiting an NCAA ‘Tournament
bid. Wé&cL won all six singles and three doubles flights in the ODAC
Championships. First-year Head Coach David Detwiler claims a roster of
SIX juniors, six sophomores and two freshman, yet he has guided the

Generals to a No. 25 ranking in Division II] and a 12-5 overall record.

Riding: The W&L riding team placed third out of four teams at the 2001
ODAC Championships. Individually, senior Annabelle Wirth (Westport,
Conn./Green Farms Academy) and junior Staunton  Binsted
(Charlottesville, Va./Albemarle) both earned AIl-LODAC honors. Binsted
also finished in second place in the novice-over-fences event at the riding
zones and became the first W&L rider to compete in the national com-

Peation, which is held May 4-6 in Conyers, Ga.

17-7 WIN AGAINST BRIDGEWATER ON APRIL 14.

 

 

Winter Recap

Women's Basketball: W&L entered its
eighth season of competition with Janet
Hollack as a new coach. ‘The Generals
broke 31 team or individual records on the
season led by juniors Megan Babst and
Jessica Mentz who blossomed into the
ODAC's top frontcourt. Mentz became
the all-time leading scorer in W&L history
(1,223 career points) and now owns 15
individual records. She also earned the
school’s first-ever First ‘Team All-ODAC
selection after averaging 20.7 points and
10.1 rebounds per game. Babst was named
Honorable Mention All-LODAC, scoring

15.7 points and 11.9 rebounds per contest.

Men's Basketball: After graduating three
senior starters in 1999-2000, the Generals
were forced to play with a very young
lineup, finishing 4-20 overall. Senior
guards Will Ballard and Chad Braley tied
for the team’s scoring lead at 10.4 points per game. Ballard finished his
areer with 149 career steals, third all-time, and places fourth in career
three-point field goal percentage (.380). Braley ended his career with 136

areer three-pointers, which is second in the W&L record books.

Swimming: ‘The women’s squad garnered its eighth-straight ODAC
Championship led by sophomore Blair Huffman, who was named ODAC
and Atlantic States Swimmer of the Year. ‘The W&L men earned their sec-
ond consecutive eight-win season (8-2) and placed second of nine teams at
the Grove City Invitational. Senior Colin Hayes and freshman Eric Ritter

capped their seasons by qualifying for the NCAA Championships.

Wrestling: The Generals finished 6-5-1 overall and placed sixth at the
Centennial Conference Championship. Junior Ezra Morse, 197 pounds,
concluded one of the best seasons in W&L history with a record of 20-3
overall, 11-1 in dual meets. Freshman Joe Mueller, 184 pounds, became
the first W&L wrestler to win a Centennial Conference title. With the
championship, he qualified for the NCAA Championships, becoming the

first to do so since Rich Redfoot in 1989.

Indoor Track & Field: ‘The W&L men placed fourth at the ODAC
Championships led by junior Marc Watson’s first-place finish in the 55
Meters (6.56). Freshman Andy Schorr was the runner-up in the 1,500
Meters (4:24.41). The women’s squad concluded the indoor season in fifth
place but turned in several fine individual performances. Sophomore
Burke Duncan posted second-place finishes in the 1,500 (5:11.69) and
3,000 Meters (9:17.77), while senior Jessica Parrillo claimed third-place
honors in the 3,000 Meters (11:00.22).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    

—

eA SFRATION BY SAM HUNDLEY —

EVERYONE IS FAMILIAR WITH THE BIBLICAL STORY
of the “Good Samaritan”(Luke 10: 30-37). A man was
robbed and left for dead on a road. A priest and another
man passed him by, but a third man, from Samaria, was
moved with compassion, treating the victim’s wounds and
then carrying him to an inn for further care. How many of

us get so involved with our own lives that we don’t see the

needs of others around us? How many of us stop to help?

Most Washington and Lee graduates make good. Many
of them also do good. At Washington and Lee, public service
is seen as an integral part of a liberal arts education. In fact,
the University’s mission seeks to develop in its students
the qualities of the mind and spirit of its namesakes, “duty,
tolerance and humility, and for self-sacrifice on behalf of
their fellow citizens.” ‘his issue of the A/wnni Magazine

celebrates those who help to make the world a better place.

It’s hard to imagine much is wrong

during a drive through the country-

TN

ai
a

side of Sussex County, Del. Open
farmland lines the quiet two-lane
roads, and the Atlantic Ocean is just
a short drive away. Yet hidden in
that idyllic setting is a secret that Jim
LLewis’58 has spent the better part of
the last seven years trying to expose.
It’s a force he calls “Big Chicken.”

‘lourism along the coast keeps
the economy moving, but inland
the only industry of note is farming,
poultry farming in __ particular.
Chicken plants for Perdue, ‘Tyson
and several other companies dust
the landscape along the Delmarva
Peninsula with feathers.

Lewis, an Episcopal priest,
came to the area in 1994 after
being assigned by the Episcopal
Diocese of Wilmington (Del.) to
work with the impoverished peo-
ple in lower Delaware. ‘hat natu-
rally led him to people in the poultry
industry, where farmers struggle to
make a living and immigrants fill
the majority of the low-paying jobs
on the farms and in the processing
plants. Lewis hasn’t liked what
he’s seen.

“The company controls every
aspect of the production chain
from the egg to the plate,” said
Lewis. “There are a lot of people
caught in the system. Everybody
who works along that line has
problems, from the growers whose
contract is controlled by the com-
pany, to the chicken catchers, to
the workers in the plant.”

It’s a complex system. Companies provide chicks and grain to the
farmers and tell them how to run their business. ‘Their pay is based
on their performance against other farmers, guaranteeing that some

will be at the low end of the pay scale.

Chicken catchers walk in ankle deep manure among thousands of

chickens, crouched down and breathing in the air as they pick up four
and five birds in each hand and stuff them into crates. ‘The workers
in the plants risk the loss of fingers and nagging injuries such as carpal
tunnel syndrome as they slice flesh from bone hour after hour. Most
work with no pension and no overtime pay.

“It’s a hard industry,” says Lewis. He set out to show just how hard,

and he’s been successful, bringing attention to the worker's plight.

ACTIVIST PRIEST BATTLES THE POULTRY
INDUSTRY, URGING JUSTICE FOR WORKERS.

By Brian Logue

Jim Lewis °S8 OF THE SUSSEX COUNTY MISSION

OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH STANDS IN FRONT OF

ST. MARTIN’S IN THE FIELD EPISCOPAL CHURCH
IN SELBYVILLE, DEL., ON FEB. 1, 1998.

 

isi ee Bn Gr. ae

The New York Times visited.
The Sun in Baltimore has run
numerous stories, including a
three-part expose in 1999, “60
Minutes” investigated the
practices of the companies. The
attention led to two U.S.
Department of Labor investiga-
tions of wage violations in the
last four years, the first of which
resulted in the victory of more
than 100 chicken catchers in a
lawsuit against Perdue. U.S.
District Court Judge William
Nickerson ruled that not paying
overtime wages to catchers was a
willful violation of federal law
and ordered the company to pay
compensatory damages. ‘lyson
also has been sued and is work-
ing on an out-of-court settle-
ment. ‘The second investigation
is ongoing.

Lewis also has encouraged
everyone from farmers to pro-
duction line workers to bond
together for a stronger voice
with the companies. “The
industry is dependent on cheap
labor and that they aren’t orga-
nized,” Lewis says.

Maria Martinez met Lewis
during a strike at the Mountaire
Farms plant in Selbyville, Del. A
secretary in Mexico, she came to
the United States hoping for a
better life. Seasonal jobs eventu-
ally turned into a full-time job at
Mountaire, but things were not
easy. “I’ve never met a person
who cares so much about
people,” said Martinez. “He cares no matter what race or color you
are. That changed my mind on a lot of things.”

Lewis, Martinez and Carol Morrison, a farmer, were instrumental
in organizing the Delmarva Poultry Justice Alliance, a “cross-lan-
guage, cross-race, cross-class” effort. Lewis also has reached out to the
rapidly growing Hispanic community in Georgetown, establishing La
Esperanza, a mission to meet the needs of the people, providing ser-
vices such as child care. Organizations like this are important if things
are to improve, Lewis maintains.

Lewis’ tactics haven’t always been what you'd call “priestly.”
Earlier this year, he was arrested for trespassing at the Mountaire

plant in Selbyville. A vote was scheduled to disband the union at the

 

=
=
°
o
vo

A a

Luy

AWGL_ ow L kv @

plant. “T went down to the plant to talk with the
workers in the cafeteria and with executives from
the company,’ Says Lewis. “They (the company)
didn’t want me there, so they called the police
and they arrested me. ‘There was no way to beat
it. | was trespassing.”

“The company convinced workers they
would get raises if they voted the union out,” said
\fartinez, who now works as a union representa-
tive. Things did not look good for the upcoming
vote. Attitudes changed after Lewis’ arrest.
“They were mad. They saw what was happening
to him, and they wondered what was going to
happen to them.”

The vote was 581 to 216 to keep the union, and now several other
plants in the area have unions. Change is coming.

The union’s power helped the catchers in the legal battles, and
requests like those for sharper knives to help prevent repetitive use
injuries no longer fall on deaf ears.

Success has come at a personal price for Lewis. “I’ve had so much
conflict in the past that I’ve sort of gotten used to it,” said Lewis. “You
come to expect that when you stand up for people. We had a threat
of a firebomb at our office, and you always fear that somebody is going
to do something to you or someone you know. But the biggest hurt
for me personally is seeing good people get cut down when they
stand up for their rights.”

Bucking the trend has been a theme in Lewis’ life, even if his
background suggests differently. At W&L, he was a star athlete play-
ing football and lacrosse. In 1958 he received the C. Markland Kelly
Award as the nation’s outstanding lacrosse goalie. After graduating,
he went into the Marines, serving three years, before going to the
Virginia lheological Seminary in Alexandria, Va. ‘That would seem
to be more of a career path for a conformist, not a rebel.

Unecus McThenia °58, °63L, retired professor of law at W&L
and someone whose been known to break a few rules te
himself to help the downtrodden, was a fraternity —-
brother with Lewis. He puts a different spin on the
story. “He’s lived his adult life to make us live up to
the rules,” says McThenia.

tor Lewis it’s even simpler. “Who makes the rules is

an important question. In the Marine Corps, we followed

 

the Uniform Code of Conduct, but even there it says
that no one is expected to follow an unlawful order.”
\ic Thenia says that Lewis’ absolute integrity stands
out. He is not surprised that his friend entered the min-
istry, and he can also picture him as an activist. He’s
just surprised he’s done both.
~ hose are roles that clergy didn’t normally fulfill—

the kind of activist work he does for justice,” said Mc Thenia.

“The bigeest hurt
for me personally 1s
seeing good people
get cut down when
they stand up for

their rights.”

his ministry there and worked with students from
St. John’s College and the Naval Academy. ‘The church
was situated in the middle of a black community.

“One day I'd be helping someone from the
Naval Academy get ready for Vietnam, and the
next day I’d be helping a St. John’s student
work on his conscientious objection papers,”
said Lewis. “That really split me apart.”

At the same time, the Civil Rights Movement
was in full force, and his exposure to the black
community had a tremendous impact on him. “I
learned a lot about the black community in a way
I hadn't before, and I learned a lot about racism.”

‘That forced him to face some difficult
questions. “I’d think, “Where is the church in this and what does
the faith have to do with all this?’ ” says Lewis.

He spent the first 22 years of his 37-year career in the ministry
as a parish priest. ‘hough he enjoyed the work, it didn’t give him
the freedom or time to push for change as he encountered
wrongs. Assignments in North Carolina and West Virginia whetted
his appetite for activist work, which has come full circle on the
Eastern Shore.

“What I’m dealing with now are the justice issues I’ve learned
about,” said Lewis, whose efforts stretch far beyond the poultry
industry. “Why are people in prison? What can we do to change the
system? I miss the parish base, but I’m free to roam and connect
with a lot of people on the battle lines.”

Lewis’ seven-year appointment in Delaware ends in
September. “My work is done here,” says Lewis. “The organiza-
tions have been set up and are in place.”

But it’s not likely he'll settle into a quiet retirement. “I’ve been
in trouble my whole ministry,” said Lewis. “From being a parish

priest dealing with neighborhood troubles, I’ve tried to take Christians

into struggles. My sense is that’s what the ministry should be.”

 

 

 

LEWIS VISITED WITH MARIA ESTHER MARTINEZ AND HER DAUGHTERS, ANGEL AND ESMERALD, IN
THEIR SELBYVILLE, DEL., HOME ON FEB. 1, 1998. MARTINEZ WORKS ON THE VISCERATION
LINE AT THE MOUNTAIRE FARMS PLANT AND IS A UNION MEMBER. IN A RECENT INTERVIEW

SHE SAID OF LEWIS, “I’VE NEVER MET A PERSON WHO CARES SO MUCH ABOUT PEOPLE.”

it Was experience during some formative years at St.
Anne’s Parish in Annapolis that pushed Lewis in this

direction. After graduating from the seminary he began

 

~

:

a.
-
om .

,

+ om’
.

Sad

a
5
bg
io
Fate
-

.

-
.
~~

 

Riding center seat with a Zapotec driver to your left and the
long apparatus of a stick-shift dump truck jutting out from
between your feet is an experience in itself. Place that dump
truck on a rocky mountain road leading straight into the
heart of Mexican oblivion, and you've got a scene that 1s a
far cry from the pristine columns of Washington and Lee.
It ts this backdrop, however, that served as an introduction

to one of the most influential summers of my Life.

‘lwo years ago, I received a grant from the Shepherd Program for
the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty at Washington and Lee to
spend two months in Oaxaca, Mexico. | worked with a group called
Amigos de las Américas, an international organization that sends
hundreds of student volunteers into a variety of Latin American
countries each summer. Upon my arrival to Oaxaca, a state southeast
of Mexico City, Amigos assigned two other students and me to work
in a town named Santo Domingo Xagacia. Ihe community truly is in
the middle of nowhere. Nestled deep within the mountains outside
of the capital of Oaxaca, the single dirt road is lined with white
crosses that serve both as a devotion to God and as a remembrance of
those who did not safely return to their single-room adobe homes.

Nearly every person in Santo Domingo Xagacia is pure Zapotec
Indian. ‘Though many speak Spanish, it is secondary to their native
language, “Zapoteco.” Most men work on steep mountain fields
growing corn, and most women either work in the field with their
husbands or remain home taking care of children and cooking meals
over open fires in smoke-filled kitchens. Most also earn the
equivalent of a few dollars a day. Even when adjusted for the local
cost of living, a few dollars does not buy much—Santo Domingo
Xagacia is a very poor community by any measurement.

My goal as a volunteer seemed, at the time, fairly straight-
forward. I was to teach basic health and supervise the construction
of latrines using the cement and toilet seats that had been pur-
chased earlier. | assumed I had much to offer; indeed, I felt the
people of this community probably needed me. After all, I had a
Washington and Lee University education, a volunteer guidebook
that instructed me how to teach basic health topics and enough
idealism to save two worlds.

And yet, I soon realized something that would season the rest of
my time in Mexico and the rest of my life: ‘The people of Santo
Domingo Xagacia did not weed me at all. ‘This is not to say that they
did not treat me with the utmost affection and respect. ‘They did. Nor
is it to say that they were not abjectly poor; they certainly were. But
most people already knew how to build a latrine far better than I did,
and many already understood the health topics I was sent to teach.
One humbling experience occurred when, after presenting to a class-
room of children the importance of the food group pyramid, the
teacher kindly told me, “We have already taught the children how to
eat well; their parents just don’t have the money to buy those foods.”
Such moments caused me to reevaluate my role as a volunteer and as
a human being. I needed to mature.

Although my contributions enabled some minor physical
improvements in the community, I discovered that I might be able to
serve the indigent people of Santo Domingo Xagacia better by being
an active observer. I decided to start interviewing them about their
experiences with poverty. Armed with a small recorder, | asked two
questions: “What is poverty to you? and “Why do you think it exists?”

Each individual gave me a different answer. I was told that poverty

Ea \ m nN mM

ving a sewer system, lights or running water; that

was I}

pover' eovernment oppression. The answers go on. But by
asking and listening rather than speaking and assuming,
| achieved an understanding of their poverty and, I hope,
served them better.

The error of my initial approach as a volunteer is that |
assumed. I assumed the people Oaxaca needed me. ‘They did
not. | imed their poverty caused them to live in a wretched
crate of misery. It did not. I assumed I could enter the situation
as an outsider, make a difference, and then go home satisfied. I
could not. In other words, I arrived with a list of solutions before
| even knew the problems.

These realizations, however, have not led me to think there is
nothing | can do. Much the opposite, my experience in Mexico has
spurred me to do further research. Currently, | am looking for
funding to continue studying individuals’ personal definitions of
poverty in the U.S. and around the world after graduation.
Moreover, my experiences in Mexico and with the Shepherd
Poverty Program have inspired me to continue my service to
disadvantaged individuals through my graduate work.

As | learned, true service will never spring from assumptions.

Assumptions confuse charity with justice, create false perceptions

and can lead either to misguided action or indifference. Indeed,
assumptions have defined peoples’ reactions to poverty for far too
long. \ly parents, my University, my background—everything that
has put me in a position to do something about poverty—is a gift.

In light of my experiences, | am now devoted to using it wisely.

 

ABOVE, MATT PETRUSEK ’O2 SITS WITH
ZAPOTEC SCHOOL CHILDREN IN THE TOWN SQUARE.

AT FAR LEFT, MATT AND A ZAPOTEC COUPLE ARE

STANDING NEAR ONE OF THE FINISHED LATRINES.

THIS PROBABLY WAS THE FIRST TIME THE COUPLE
EVER HAD BEEN PHOTOGRAPHED.

a

 

mm & fr 8) 86 ao aus

"93

KIRK OGDEN

HOPES TO BUILD A SCHOOL AND

NUTRITION CENTER FOR FAMILIES LIKE THIS ONE IN BOLIVIA.

After six years as a campus pastor employed by Intervarsity
at the University of Virginia, Hampden-Sydney and
Longwood, Willam Kirk Ogden Jr. °93 and his wife, Emily

Dugan Ogden, set out for a very different part of the world.

As members of the South American Mission, they settled in San
Ignacio de Velasco, in far eastern Bolivia, the largest town between the
Brazilian border and Santa Cruz (where the Ogden’s first child, Jessica
Raquel, was born recently). Only the streets around the plaza are paved.

‘The South American Mission is an interdenominational
Protestant organization committed to helping churches in the region.
As a team leader, Ogden supervises several missionaries in supporting
existing churches and creating new congregations, as well as helping
local congregations develop a broader vision for how to be a positive
force in their communities. A current project is the establishment of a
theological training center that will stress social responsibility and
integrity. A nursery and nutrition center for young children and a
school also are in the plans.

Ogden’s studies at W&L with religion professors Alexandra Brown
and Harlan Beckley developed his ideas about justice as a value in
society. Professor Kenneth Ruscio’s public-policy classes convinced
Ogden of the need for grassroots efforts, not just blanket policies. “We
really desire to see both a temporal and an eternal impact in the lives
of the people we work with,” says Ogden. “The biggest obstacles we
face are poverty, lack of resources for ministry and general acceptance
of the status quo. ‘he major economic crisis in Bolivia makes it hard
for people to invest in the future. ‘They are focusing on survival.” 4

— Lori Stevens

G o oO

Al a en
Volunteering 1S ee

d «he

:

MCLOUGHLIN READS WEEKLY TO FIRST-GRADE STUDENTS
AT MOUNTAIN VIEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL IN BUENA VISTA.

 

Emily Shearer °03 stepped timidly into a Head
Start classroom in Glasgow, just a few miles from
Lexington, when a child clutched onto her leg. From
that moment, she was hooked on the experience of
doing something for others.

Shearer is a member of the Jonathan Nabors Service League
(NSL), founded in the memory of Nabors ’02, who died in a tragic
accident Jan. 3, 1999, on Interstate 81 as he was returning to school
following Christmas break. ‘The multi-vehicle accident just south of

Lexington also claimed Nabors’ sister and injured his parents.

 

Nabors was involved with the Big Buddy Program during his brief
time on campus. “Jonathan’s spirit lives on through the Nabors
Service League, because it embodies who he was,” students said
when they organized the group.

Shearer was certain volunteering would be fun. She didn’t
expect to learn so much while playing with and listening to her tiny
charges. “I know that I took more from this experience than I gave,”
she said. “The fact that the Nabors Service League is here to give
students the opportunity to learn so much while helping others in
our community ts incredible.”

NSL coordinates volunteer efforts already existing on campus
under one umbrella so students can respond where the need is great-
est. As word has spread, the number of students involved in commu-
nity service has exploded. Currently, there are about 250 students
reaching out daily to the Lexington community. Opportunities are
numerous: Habitat for Humanity, which builds homes for low-
income residents; Hoofbeats, a therapeautic riding center for physi-
cally, mentally and emotionally disturbed individuals; the Mayflower
assisted living residence for seniors; the Big Buddy program; the
SPCA, and many others. On May 12, students rallied for the third
annual Nabors Service Day, during which students work on projects
throughout Rockbridge County. One project this year was painting a
bus, which drives to remote parts of the county with teachers and
books, taking pre-school activities to children who don’t have an
Opportunity to participate in other programs.

“There are a lot of students who want to volunteer,” said Stacy
McLoughlin ’02, one of NSLUs founders and former chair. Now there is
an organized way for them to do so. ‘The organization not only has con-
tributed to expanding social awareness on campus but also dramatically
improved the way community members perceive W&L students.

An intensive six-week literacy campaign throughout Rockbridge
County this winter was one effort to tie the University to the community.

So enthusiastic has been the response to NSL that students have
started organizing “Alternative Breaks,” in which they spend time
they might have spent skiing or sunning on the beach to work in
Nicaragua or in other countries and U.S. cities. This is an area that will
be strengthened in the coming year, according to Carroll ‘Thompson
‘03, who succeeds McLoughlin as chair.

“I can see the difference that the structure for volunteerism has
made on campus,” said Lucy Baldwin "95, NSL advisor and service
learning coordinator for W&Ls Shepherd Poverty Program.

The NSL accomplished something else as well. As one of the
more diverse groups on campus, “Volunteering ended up being the
perfect way to connect students that otherwise would have never got-
ten together,” said McLoughlin.

Dan Birdwhistle ’01 observes, “As a senior looking back, it is hard to
believe how much has changed. We now view service as an essential
part of the liberal arts experience. ‘The strength of W&L is to connect

knowledge and honor to the practical applications of public service.” 4

 

 

OLOH d

Ad

MVHS GVU’A NVI

__

 

STACY MCLOUGHLIN ’02,

from West Chester, Pa.,
received the Seeds of Service
Award from the Campus
Outreach Opportunity League
(COOL) at its 17th annual con-
ference, “The Path of Service
|.eads from Charity to Justice,”
held in Boston.

McLoughlin was recog-
nized for creating lasting
change through innovation and
tenacity. The award is given to
a student who has “demon-
strated outstanding leadership,
creativity and innovation.”
McLoughlin founded the
Nabors Service League—a
community outreach program
at W&L that matches students
with many volunteer organiza-
tions in Rockbridge County.
She is also program coordinator
for Project Outreach, a dorm
counselor, philanthropy chair
for Kappa Delta sorority and a
member of P.R.I.D.E. and the
Shepherd Poverty Program
She

received the Omicron Delta

Review Committee.
Kappa Sophomore Leadership
Award and was inducted into
the society earlier this year.
Founded in 1984, COOL is
a national nonprofit organization
dedicated to the education and
empowerment of college stu-
dents to strengthen the nation

through community service.

 

MIKE BRUMBY °64 CHALLENGED HIS COMMUNITY
TO BECOME THE “READING CAPITAL OF THE WORLD.”

Philosophy professor Harry Pemberton’s classes in existentialism left a lasting impression on Mike
Brumby ’64. “The idea that existence precedes essence has allowed me to create something unique
out of whatever is available,” says Brumby. Bothered by his community’s low literacy levels—as
high as 40 percent—he asked himself, “Why couldn't ‘Tifton, a small rural town in southern Georgia,
become the reading capital of the U.S.?”

For the last 10 years Brumby has directed the ‘lift County Foundation for Educational Excellence.
‘The foundation fosters and enhances excellence in the county’s public schools. It has initiated a
number of programs, including incentive grants to allow teachers to put their ideas into practice and
pilot programs such as computer camps, elementary language instruction and parent help lines.

An incentive grant to elementary school media specialist ‘Terri Nalls in 1996 allowed her to
acquire a program called Accelerated Reader (AR). It is a software program invented and marketed
by a company in Wisconsin that forces students to take comprehension tests on a book’s content
(five to 20 questions) before they get credit for reading it; points are awarded based on a book’s dif-
ficulty. For instance, Dr. Seuss earns 1/2 point, ‘Tolstoy 130. By the end of the year, Nalls’ students
had read 25,000 books. ‘The community was awed.

Realizing the program’s potential, Brumby’s foundation in 1997 decided to create an overall
reading program that would boost test scores by 25 percent in grades 1-8, increase library circulation
by 50 percent and earn 1 million AR points by the end of 2000. ‘Teachers received AR training and
schools were networked to use the AR testing program. In 1999, the program expanded to allow par-
ents, friends and community leaders to join the students in earning money for their school libraries
by passing AR tests. Area businesses and the foundation donated 50 cents for every point earned.
‘Talk about motivation. Mayor Paul Johnson earned 300 points, and the Rotarians challenged the
Kiwanis Club to a read-off. Most surprising, youngsters preferred reading to video games and ‘TV.

‘The challenge earned ‘Tifton a page in the Oct. 23, 2000, issue of 7ime magazine. A few weeks
later, on Nov. 15, 7,500 citizens gathered in the football stadium to celebrate success. ‘They set two

Guinness World Records that evening—one for the largest crowd with everyone silently simulta-

 

neously reading a book of choice for one minute and another for the largest group read-aloud—a
selection from Dr. Seuss’ 7he Cat in the Hat.’Vhe mayor pronounced ‘Tifton the reading capital of the
world, with more than 900,000 books read and $30,000 earned to buy new books. But the sweetest
victory of all was when ‘Tift County schools shot up 14 points in statewide reading tests. ‘The abili-
ty to read is the greatest gift of all. 4

—Ilon Stevens

 

 

RATION BY HUNDLEY

hoe ee Se Se)

a =

Se ea
Wee ae

,
5

es as

:

—*

See

-_—
te .
oy

ET I ee
a ae ye ee al ae

—
OREM AL MOE

 

 

 

 

Anne Hazlett ’01, a psychology mayor; says that the chance to take an interdisciplinary approach to

her education, specifically through the Shepherd Poverty Program, changed her life. “It’s had a

profound influence on shaping the chowes "ve made and what I plan to do after college,” she observes.

Some of those choices included selecting classes that would give
her a chance to explore a topic of great interest to her, such as welfare
reform. Using that subject as a touchstone, she signed up for

contemporary issues in child development to learn more about child

incorporated a study abroad program. “The major grew out of a
need to provide an alternative viewpoint from the focus on the
Western world that predominated in most classes everywhere at

that time,” explained Joan O’Mara, associate professor of art history

 

 

abuse, the impact of divorce and Head Start. A class
in public policy revealed the inner workings behind
the politics of decision-making on such issues as
education and public health, while a sociology class
in contemporary social problems analyzed the causes,
consequences and possible solutions to poverty.
She hopes all this preparation will lead her to a
position with a public policy think tank after gradu-
ation. “Interdisciplinary programs really bring out
the value of a liberal arts education,” Hazlett noted.
“It creates all kinds of connections with other
classes. It provides a cohesive way to look at an
issue from lots of different angles.”

For years, the typical college curriculum has
revolved around discrete disciplines. It’s how both
students and faculty are recruited, and Washington
and Lee is no different, offering, for example, majors
in English, chemistry and accounting. But in the last
decade the number of interdisciplinary majors and
programs at W&L has blossomed—thanks to a cata-
logue jam-packed with courses and faculty who love
to think outside the box.

 

 

interdisciplinary
Majors
Russian Studies
Medieval and
Renaissance Studies

Neuroscience

East Asian Studies

Interdisciplinary
Programs

Shepherd Poverty Program

Public Policy

Environmental Studies

Women’s Studies

Global Stewardship
Society and the Professions
Program in Ethies

Business Journalism

Nonlinear Dynamics

 

 

and director of the East Asian Studies Program.
“We saw that it was extremely important to bring
this awareness to the table as we talked about vari-
ous international issues. Our students need to have
an expanded global awareness, and this program is
one way to provide that foundation.”

Hard on its heels was the Society and the Profes-
sions Program in Ethics in 1974, which offered
“capstone” classes to pre-professional undergraduates
that examined ethical questions they might face in
business, law, medicine and journalism. Greg
Cooper, current director of the program, says, “The
value of such a program is in creating an informed
citizen.” Students learn how to generate a rational
argument, to think about complicated issues within
a common framework and to consider the ways in
which certain outcomes matter. As Bradley Wendel,
assistant professor of law who team teaches a class on
legal ethics with Cooper, explained, “We look at rou-
tine ethical problems that lawyers might face in any
case and consider the moral, economic, social and

political factors that may be relevant to what the

 

As a liberal arts university, W&L always has considered the
educational needs of its students to be a top priority, which is why
interdisciplinary studies entered the curriculum in the first place.
Making its debut in 1972 was East Asian Studies, an interdiscipli-
ary major that built links among several departments, including

art, history, religion, philosophy, politics and economics. It also

lawyer is permitted to do in representing his or her client. I want
students to realize that the law doesn’t supply all the answers.”
Over the years, the University has added several more
interdisciplinary majors that are still part of the curriculum today:
Russian studies, Medieval and Renaissance studies, neuroscience

and public policy.

 

Washington and

fee BPR Atumnt MAG

Aca? we «

But in 1997, W&L nudged the concept of interdisciplinary pro-
grams up a notch with the introduction of the Shepherd Poverty
Program, which has allowed W&L to build upon the University’s
inherent curricular strengths and on educational experiences beyond
the classroom. Moreover, the program’s service component strength-
ened the University’s commitment to instill among its students “the
responsibility to serve society through the productive use of talent
and training.”

“When we think about what distinguishes W&L from our peer

institutions, we look at the Williams School, the journalism program

and the presence of the Law School,” said Larry Boetsch °69, dean of

the College and vice president of academic affairs. “With that kind of

environment, we're talking about the chance to consider important
issues from multiple points of view. We don’t think about this model
of interdisciplinary studies in terms of a major,” he added. “We think
about the value of how different disciplines can contribute to an
understanding of an issue.”

By their very nature, interdisciplinary programs aren’t meant to
exist in isolation; they form new focal points by building bridges
among disciplines. But the goal at W&L is to incorporate interdisci-
plinary studies so they begin to weave themselves seamlessly into the
fabric of the curriculum. “We'll Know we have succeeded when stu-
dents don’t realize they are being trained interdiscplinarily,” said
Boetsch. “It will be second nature to them.”

Brooks Hickman ’02 already has put this concept to work in his
education. A politics and Russian studies major, Hickman ts interest-
ed in “questions of representation and marginalization” in society. He
took an introduction to poverty course based on enthusiastic recom-
mendations from friends. He says, “It fundamentally altered how |
think about issues I’ve studied in other classes. For example, while |
haven’t focused on poverty per se, I’m cognizant that some of the

issues I analyzed in that class have informed my current project—an

independent study on the nature of the self and the importance of

community in Marxist, Confucian and feminist theory. ‘The poverty
class also provided the catalyst for me to take economics classes on
international labor and economic justice.”

Interdisciplinary studies, however, aren't just about opportunities

for students. ‘The faculty, too, benefit through team teaching, devel-
oping courses derived from their scholarly activities and exploring
new territory. One of many examples is Monica Capra, assistant pro-
fessor of economics. She has joined James R. Kahn °75, the duPont
Professor of Environmental Studies, in creating a spring term study
abroad course. Geared toward students who have an interest in the
environment, poverty or economics, the class will travel to Brazil and
Bolivia to examine links between poverty, deforestation and eco-
nomic development. “When you're working on your Ph.D., it’s some-
times difficult to cross disciplines. You have to make an effort to read
outside your area,” said Capra, who teaches microeconomics and
experimental economics. “But the University and my department are
very open to new programs. ‘They want to remove the hurdles so pro-
fessors are free to develop their interests, which in my case includes
both poverty and Latin American development. ‘They recognize that
what the faculty do will benefit the students.”

Domnica Radulescu, associate professor of Romance languages
who helped launch the Women’s Studies Program, concurs. “For
many faculty, interdisciplinary programs provide a fluid interaction
between research and teaching.” She points to her own interest in the
representation of the tragic heroine in literature and myth as directly
benefiting from this program. ‘The introductory women’s studies
class she team teaches with Julie Woodzicka, assistant professor of
psychology, draws heavily from her area of research. Moreover, she
says she and Woodzicka exchange reading material, learning more
about each other’s area. “A deeper understanding of another disci-
pline brings new connections and new perspectives to one’s own
work,” she notes.

Three other interdisciplinary programs, Business Journalism,
Nonlinear Dynamics and Global Stewardship, loom on the horizon.
Pam Luecke, who has been named to fill the Donald W. Reynolds
Chair in Business Journalism, joins W&L in the fall, while the other
two programs have secured funding for their curricular development.

All this bodes well for W&L’s academic environment. As Henry
Adams said, “Nothing in education is so astonishing as the amount of
ignorance it accumulates in the form of inert facts.” ‘That’s clearly not

the case at W&L. }

 

Funding from several foundations also has shaped interdisciplinary study at WEL.

A $1.5 million endowment from the
Donald W. Reynolds Foundation provid-
ed the opportunity to initiate the Business
Journalism program, with Pam Luecke as
director (see related story, page 27). ‘The
goal is to develop a program that includes
capstone courses in business journalism and

the business of journalism. In cooperation

with the Williams School, it also includes a
substantial number of courses in econom-
ics, accounting and management.

The Keck Foundation grant of
$500,000

Nonlinear Dynamics program (see relat-

has jump-started the

ed story, page 4), which brings a number

of the scientific disciplines together

in exploring the theory of chaos.
Funded by the Christian A. Johnson
Global

Stewardship program (see related story,

Endeavor Foundation is_ the
page 5) that aims to educate students
about global issues across the disciplines.
The program encourages faculty and

students to travel abroad.

 

 

 

:

Pam Luecke learned about the impact of busi-
ness journalism on consumers before most
newspapers even recognized it as a beat. As
many young women reporters of the late °70s,

she started her career at The Hartford Courant hopes

with the lifestyle section, as the old “women’s

pages” were beginning to be called. It was the
end of summer. Homemakers were putting up
earden vegetables and there was a shortage of

canning-jar lids, prompting hoarding. The jar

manufacturer conveniently was in Connecticut,
eo she visited the factory and nailed down the
story. She can’t remember the reason now, but
the story whetted her appetite for a page one
byline and taught her that news about business
wasn’t just for the boardrooms.

[uecke joins the W&L faculty this fall as
the Reynolds Professor of Business Journalism.
The Reynolds chair was established with a
$1.5 million endowment by the Donald W.
Revnolds Foundation to develop a program
that includes capstone courses in business jour-
nalism and the business of journalism. In coop-
eration with the Williams School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics, the program includes a

substantial number of courses in economics,

BUSINESS JOURNALISM

an +)

integrity and

 

PAMELA K. LUECKE

local economy. Business news has evolved
into the mainstream, and most papers today
have business sections every day of the week.

After a brief hiatus in 1986-87 as the

impart Bagehot Fellow in Economics and Business

Tides Journalism at Columbia University, Luecke

returned to Hartford in 1989 as assistant
managing editor, becoming deputy manag-
ing editor in 1995. In 1993, she spent a year
as a visiting professor of journalism at the
University of Connecticut.

As an editor, Luecke supervised a number of
prize-winning efforts. ‘The Courant’ coverage of
wiretapping by Connecticut state police won
the prestigious George Polk Award in 1989. Also
at the Courant, she was the supervising editor
for a series on the Hubble telescope that won a
Pulitzer Prize for explanatory journalism in
1991. At The Courier-Journal, she supervised
coverage of the Carrollton, Ky., bus crash, which
won the Pulitzer for local reporting in 1988. ‘The
Pulitzer is the profession’s most coveted award.
Joel Pett, editorial cartoonist for the Lexington
Herald-Leader, won a Pulitzer in 2000.

Luecke also has served on advisory boards for

collegiate journalism programs and for many

REYNOLDS PROFESSOR OF

accounting and management. (The Reynolds
Foundation was founded in 1954 by the late
media entrepreneur for whom it is named.)

“The chance to build a new program holds enormous appeal,”
says the veteran journalist, who left her position as editor and senior
vice president of the Lexington (Ky.) Herald-Leader, to take the position.

“What more logical place for business journalism but a classic lib-
eral arts setting with two professional programs: journalism and the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics,” asks
Professor Hampden Smith, head of the journalism department. We
have the resources to produce a very viable program.”

Professor Larry Peppers, dean of the Commerce School, says he
looks forward to another new opportunity for a “truly interdiscipli-
nary course” of study.

Luecke has the credentials to make the program come to life.
Following her early years in Hartford, she returned to school,
earning a master’s in journalism from Northwestern University in
Evanston, Ill., and a masters in business administration from the
University of Hartford in West Hartford, Conn. (Her undergradu-
ate degree in philosophy is from Carleton College.) She then
joined The Courier-Journal in Louisville, Ky, as a business reporter.
She launched the newspaper’s first Monday business section in
the *80s. Such sections were most newspapers’ first attempt to

Showcase local companies and business people and focus on

A relatively recent story in the news was
President George Bush's decision not to
tighten regulations on carbon dioxide emis-
Sions for coal burning utilities. How would
you encourage students to cover the story?

 

BUSINESS JOURNALISM

professional organizations, including the
American Society of Newspaper Editors.

“I see business coverage less as a specialty now and more as an
angle that can be found in every category of news—sports, education,
courts, pop culture. And I see business and the economy as rich areas for
in-depth and investigative journalism—not just spot news,” says Luecke.

A robust economy fueled interest in business news in the ’90s, she
admits. “Suddenly every reader had a 401K and money in the stock
market. But I think interest in business news also was high in the ’80s
when we weren't enjoying a robust economy. Readers need just as
much information about the business world when there are layoffs and
the stock market is sinking as they do when everything seems rosy.”

Luecke hopes to impress upon students “the importance of
integrity and fairness. ‘lhe media today are assailed from all directions
so those who work in it have to strive to be beyond reproach.”

A liberal arts background also is good for journalists. It’s an advan-
tage to have grounding in areas outside the profession, particularly
business. “I don’t think newspapers do a very good job of explaining
business or economic concepts to readers, probably because reporters
often don’t understand them themselves,” says Luecke. “When
a reporter writes that something was a ‘complex transaction,’ he
often means it was a ‘transaction I don’t understand.’ ”

Luecke hopes the new business journalism program will

change all that. —Deborah Marquardt

I'd encourage them to frame this as a story far broader than big business vs. public
health; it has more than two dimensions. It might be instructive to assign six students
six different perspectives to report and write from: for example, the electric utilities,
the environmentalists, a heavy industrial electricity consumer, a low-income
residential consumer, a coal miner, the politician. ‘Then we could compare stories.

 

the environment that encourages students to raise “critical questions
of social responsibility inherent in their lives as citizens and profes-
sionals,” according to the University catalogue. In addition to team-

teaching with other professors in a variety of curricula, such as Jack

makes philosophy relevant

Wilson in the environmental ethics area and Brad Wendell in legal

 

ethics, Cooper also invites visiting scholars and professionals to cam-

ig =o pus for institutes in which ethical topics are discussed and debated.

~) ; Vy J c weil =
: Vee,

~e rm . ~-* . .
* fA ' a lhe program, which was ahead of its time, was created in 1974

      

by Louis Hodges, former religion professor, who became the Knight
Professor of Journalism Ethics in 1996.

Cooper now puts his own mark on the program, adding the envi-
ronmental debate to the mix. In fact, in addition to his work in
ethics, Cooper specializes in the philosophy of science and the phi-
losophy of ecology. He also is interested in public policy and philos-
ophy. His recent book, forthcoming from Cambridge University
Press, is called The Science of the Struggle for Existence: On the
Foundations of Ecology. \n it, Cooper explores such questions as,
“Can we make sense of the idea of a ‘balance of nature’? Are there
‘laws’ in ecology? Are ecological questions distinct from evolution-
ary questions?”

Cooper holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Wisconsin and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota, both in
philosophy. He served as assistant professor of philosophy at both
State University of New York College, Potsdam, and at Duke
University prior to coming to W&L.

Cooper's favorite 20th-century philosophers are Bertrand Russell
and Rudolph Carnap for their clarity of thought and writing. He sin-
gles out Russell “for his willingness to step outside the academic
arena and wrestle with the problems of humanity” and Carnap “for
his tolerance and determination to accommodate the ideas of other
people.” Nancy Cartwright leads his list of contemporary philoso-
phers of science who he says “has a real Knack for standing the “com-
mon wisdom’ of the field on its head and revealing all sorts of new

GREG COOPER and interesting things in the process.”
DIRECTOR, SOCIETY AND THE PROFESSIONS tea ie ges ;
Philosophy is essential to contemporary discussions, Cooper

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY AND PUBLIC POLICY ' ,

insists, and it needs input from outside the discipline as well. “In the

Philosophy can seem like an old dusty subject. But its role in a world last 25 years, the most significant area in philosophy that has been
where science can genetically engineer designer organisms (includ- impacted from the outside is the philosophy of mind. All sorts of
ing humans), where population growth is putting untold stresses on interesting work, from neurobiology to cognitive psychology and all
the earth’s resources, is as vital as when Socrates, Plato and Aristotle stops in between, has caught the interest and attention of people
first wrestled with the fundamental questions of ‘ruth and Good. working in the philosophy of mind. A general field has emerged that
“Each generation of philosophers still has to take their stand on we might call ‘cognitive science,’ and philosophy is as much a part
these fundamental questions, but increasingly, philosophers are of this field as the various sciences. The traditional philosophical
turning their attention toward the pressing practical questions of the questions have not necessarily been solved, but they have been
day,” says Greg Cooper, W&Ls new director of the Society and the cast in new and more fruitful light by reflecting on or incorporating
Professions and associate professor of philosophy and public policy. our best scientific understanding of the process of cognition, of
The Society and the Professions Program is an interdisciplinary how the brain works, and so on.
effort to study questions of values in business, medicine, law and “Within the field of practical ethics, the area has that has profited

Ad OLOHd

YNOUUMALAVd

a4NIH

A‘

 

 

CSE Lh oo OOOO

most and been most influenced by work from the outside ts clearly

medical ethics. Medical ethics in the last 20 years or so has just

exploded into a huge enterprise. Clearly, this is an area where

philos: yphers have had a voice and an impact.”

Cooper feels that philosophy sometimes has suffered from a
“disconnect” between practical and theoretical ethics. Philosophers
of theoretical ethics often see practical ethics as “second class,” and
practical ethicists tend to see theoretical ethics as too abstract to be
relevant. “I believe that ethical understanding requires both approaches
focused on the concrete situations of daily life,” says Cooper.

Today’s students will enter a world in which genetic engineer-
ing, population growth and global warming pose significant ques-
tions. Cooper thinks, “The most critical questions that this next
generation of students will face have to do with ways in which this
newfound capacity to shape and influence biological systems will be
used. We can now genetically engineer fish with three times the
growth rate of their natural relatives. We can engineer organisms
that eat pollution. We can engineer organisms that produce their
own pesticide in their leaves. .. .Perhaps the most sobering thought
concerns the unleashing of the genetic engineering technology on
the human organism itself. ‘The big normative questions are going
to involve how we decide to use this knowledge.” ‘There are also
significant environmental problems related to human population
growth, stressing the earth’s resources from many directions.

W&Ls heritage of the Honor System makes an interesting

backdrop when it comes to exploring such issues, says Cooper. It

provides a kind of touchstone, an area where students are already

 

Cooper, center, coached a group of W&L students to a win against 14
other teams in an “Ethics Bowl” on Feb. 12 at Marymount University
in Arlington. The event was sponsored by the Virginia Foundation for
Independe: it Colleges. Questions focused on technology and related
issues of privacy and plagiarism. Representing W&L were:
(from left co right) seniors Anna Regenstein, Virginia Brumby,

Allison Bruneau and Gabrielle (Gabby) Best.

familiar with doing the right thing as a matter of personal integrity.

His mission is to “develop in students the capacity to think about

questions of value, and to do this in a creative, articulate and insight-

ful way.” + —Deborah Marquardt

As a philosopher, particularly one who is interested in
science and ecology, how do you interpret President
Bush’s decision not to tighten regulations on carbon
dioxide emissions for coal burning utilities, and how
would you encourage students to explore the question
from an ethical point of view?

‘This is an interesting problem and reflects the way in which
environmental debate, going way back to 1970 and Earth Day,
has been polarized. Invariably it is the economist vs. the
environmentalist, or big business vs. the environmentalist. At
any rate, it always seems to boil down to two extreme views,
either environmental decisions are made solely on the basis of
economic expediency or environmental decisions ought not to
have anything to do with economics whatsoever. It seems crazy
to suppose that we can make environmental decisions in either
one of these two ways. A central theme in Aldo Leopold’s work
is that we have to quit making land use decisions solely on the
basis of economic considerations. But that doesn’t mean that
economics is irrelevant. On the other side, just because
aesthetic and moral considerations don’t lend themselves to
quantification, that doesn’t mean we can't find ways to take them
into account in the decision-making process.

So what I would encourage students to explore, are ways to
incorporate a kind of value pluralism, ways to incorporate a number
of different kinds of normative concerns in the decision-making
process. We need to recognize that we have moral obligations to
one another and to future generations. We have to recognize the
potential for aesthetic impoverishment of the planet and the
impact that this can have on the quality of our lives and the lives
of our children. But we also have to recognize that economics,
and, in particular, an accurate economics in which “he (rue costs and
benefits of our choices are reflected, is an essential part of the pic-
ture. ‘here is interesting work on the greening of business, on
identifying the “ecological footprints” of our industrial projects,
on an ecological economics that recognizes the economic value
of the goods and services that ecosystems deliver, on market-
based approaches to achieve environmental goals (as opposed to
more traditional command-and-control regulation), and so forth.

Philosophers with a concern for moral and aesthetic values
should not simply paint all of this as economic subterfuge.
Rather, they should join the conversation and seek decision-
making strategies that incorporate the pursuit of these moral and
aesthetic concerns with the pursuit of sound economic goals and

the deployment of reasonable economic strategies.

 

      

. A

 
 
 

wal
, a

   

ar

eT an

ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES Jim Kahn’75 nurtures informed decision-makers

gh SES SG ret eer «os ‘
+. ‘ *,, ~ lt

nan * » *

JAMES R. KAHN, DIRECTOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES PROGRAM, PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS

Krom Jim Kahn’s perspective, the world is a very small place and

getting smaller by the minute. One continent’s greenhouse gas

emissions becomes another continent’s problem. Deforestation of

one country’s rain forest hurts the economic future of that country
and has implications for the economies of other countries. ‘There are
countless examples, a series of vicious circles with economic and
environmental consequences, and the future worries him.

Kahn is an environmental economist by training. His interests

are in the interaction between the economic system and the envi-

ronment, the role of the environment in the economic growth of

developing countries and the use of economic incentives to protect
the environment. It is this unusual perspective that he brings to the

classroom in one of W&Ls newest interdisciplinary studies programs.

Kahn most recently was professor of economics at the
University of ‘Tennesee, where he had a joint appointment as
collaborating scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He also
has taught at State University of New York, Binghamton.

In April he left for South America on a Fulbright that was
arranged prior to his coming to W&L. He is spending part of his
time in Manaus, Brazil, teaching at the Environmental Sciences

Center of the University of Amazonas, and part of his time in Rio de

Janeiro teaching at the University of Santa Ursala and doing

research with the Center for Mineral ‘lechnology.
The field of environmental studies did not exist when Kahn was
an undergraduate in Lexington. It was in his first job after college

with the Federal Energy Administration in Washington that he

OLOHd

A

NVI

MVHS GvduUd

 

 

 

“_* *e * © © © © © © © © © ee ee ehhh hl

saw the links between economics and the study of resource and

environmental issues. Graduate studies—a master’s and a Ph.D.—

from the University of Maryland, College Park, confirmed that.

Global warming. Strip mining. ‘Timbering. Oil and gas explo-
ration. Over-grazing of livestock. All of these issues boil down
to one thing in Kahn’s mind: “We are losing environmental
resources and the ability to provide ecological services as a result
of these activities,” he says.

“Human ingenuity can always find a way to cope with a short-
age of a natural resource such as oil (we develop more fuel-efficient
cars, alternative fuels, etc.), but it is unrealistic to think that human
systems can provide ecological services on the same scale as nature.

| “One of the things I feel passionate about is that many politi-
cians paint our choices as the environment versus the economy
and argue that any attempts to improve or preserve the environ-
ment will hurt the economy. What they don’t understand is that a
healthy environment is essential to economic productivity and
that environmental changes such as the global climate change
that we are experiencing will have very dire implications for the
economy in the not-so-distant future.”

Ic was the opportunity to work with young people and to teach
them to integrate insights from different disciplines when looking at
environmental issues that lured Kahn home to W&L. A liberal arts
setting is perfect for this type of study, he says. “You can’t be a schol-
ar with limited horizons. A liberal arts education enables you to see
past the particular paradigms that constrain an academic discipline.”

Many programs contribute to the environmental studies pro-
gram: biology, geology, law, English, economics, politics, engineer-
ing/physics and chemistry. Kahn says, “Almost any program in the
University could get involved. I would like to see courses in many
new disciplines as well as integrating environmental studies into the
curriculum as a whole.” A typical concentration includes an intro-
ductory course, two humanities courses, two sciences (natural and
applied) and two social sciences.

He also has begun adding a study-abroad component to the program,
increasing Opportunities for international internships. He and Monica
Capra, assistant professor of economics, are coordinating a project to
study poverty and environmental issues in Brazil and Bolivia. A future
project might involve mining and the environment in the Amazon.

Kahn wants to prepare students to be better decision makers
with respect to environmental issues. “This could be in their role as
a leader in industry, government or academics but, most important-
ly, in their role as citizens.”

Sallie Gray Strang 02, an economics major with a concentration
in environmental studies, is an example. She spent the fall term
with the School for Field Studies on the island of South Caicos in
the ‘lurks and Caicos Islands in the Caribbean studying marine
biology, resource management and economics. “A lot of people for-
Set about future generations—that they need to have resources to

use. | am interested in how to use those resources and sustain

swwruwvrewewwvrveeweyrw.tewefweuegwes

them.” Strang hopes to use her degree toward an environmental
consulting or environmental economics career. “Everybody’s
little bit can make a difference,” she says.

Kahn agrees. “Some environmental problems, such as urban air
pollution, leave no legacy once we attack the source of the problem.
If we stop emitting the air pollutants, the air quality will improve.
Other environmental problems, such as the loss of old growth
forests and tropical rain forests and global warming, are irreversible.
If we act promptly and with conviction, the world can remain
an inhabitable place. If we delay for decades, it could have
catastrophic consequences.” §| — Deborah Marquardt
As an economist and an environmental policy
analyst, how do you interpret President Bush's
decision not to tighten regulations on carbon
dioxide emissions for coal burning utilities?

I don’t want to sound disrespectful, but President Bush is ill-
informed on this issue. ‘The California electricity situation is the
result of stupidly crafted deregulation on the part of California.
This deregulation is actually only partial deregulation that
destroys the incentive to develop new generation capacity. ‘The
desire of the state government to protect the consumers from
future price increases has backfired and created this artificial but
destructive shortage of electricity in California. ‘The solution to
the problem is to revise the regulations to make it profitable to
produce electricity. It is critically important to note that the
problem in California is not caused by a shortage of oil and coal
or the cost of oil and coal (which have been on a general down-
ward trend since World War II after adjustment for inflation).
Rather the problem is caused by a lack of generating capacity
relative to demand, and the generating capacity has been inhib-
ited by economic regulation not environmental regulation.

Global warming is not an issue of economic impacts versus
environmental impacts. It is an issue of economic impacts ver-
sus economic impacts. ‘The scientific evidence overwhelming
points to very strong global climate change that will have huge
economic impacts on the US and other nations. While control-
ling emissions of greenhouse gases will definitely hurt the oil
industry, and will generate some transitional costs that will be
significant, the cost of not limiting emissions is much greater.

In addition, the global limitation of greenhouse gases emis-
sions will provide great economic opportunities for the U.S. as
we are the technology leader of the world. As we respond to
emissions limitations by developing new technologies, we will
export these new technologies to other industries and that will
provide important economic benefits.

It is important to understand that while there are costs
associated with controlling emissions, the cost of doing

nothing ts larger.

 

 

bE

 

W&Ls downhill racers. Front row, Julie Hatchett, Kristen Hansen; second row, Rebecca Johnson ’85L, Jodie Day; third row, Carolyn
Graham, Pattye Monroe, Jason Rosener, Wendy Lovell ’90, Carrie Graham 04, ‘Tom Lovell ’91(assistant alumni director); fourth row, David
Graham, William Monroe ’86, Ron Kessler °69, Christina Seldomridge, Hugh Sproul °58, Cindy Klinedinst, Mark Stratton, Roger Day °85,
Phillip Graham, Gary Seldomridge °76; back row, Jet ‘Taylor °84, Greg Barrow °87, Gene Melton °62, Lat Purser ’73, ‘Tommy McBride ’88,

Bob Entrop, Philip Hatchett ’77, Rob Mish °76 (director of alumni programs), Randy Graham °77 and Rob Vienneau ’87, ’90L. ‘The trip

was the idea of Alan Corwin ’62.

It wasn’t a travel agent who organized a dream vacation for the
Grahams of Richmond. It was Washington and Lee. ‘The Colorado
ski

February fulfilled the family of five’s

Colonnade alumni event in

W&L Fe
wish to ski the Rocky Mountains
with a few unexpected surprises that
not even the most accomplished
travel agency could provide.

‘The snow-covered mountains
of Keystone, Colo., set the perfect stage for a four-day escape that
combined daytime activities of skiing, tubing, snowboarding and skat-
ing with evenings of great food, music and fun.

“From the first night’s Mexican dinner to the wonderful, seven-
course affair on the last evening, the events were well-planned and
offered something for everyone,” said Randy Graham °72, who came
to Keystone with his wife, two teen-age sons and daughter, Carrie, a
member of W&Ls class of 2004. “The highlight for all of us, though,
was the chance to ski with a U.S. Ski ‘Team member.”

Downhill champion Jason Rosener joined the group of 50 alum-

ni to conduct a daylong racing clinic for W&L skiers of all levels. A

On the

native of the Keystone area, Rosener placed 15th in the downhill com-
petition in the 1998 Winter Olympics and ts training to compete next
year at the Olympic Games in Salt
Lake City. David Johnston °91, U.S.

Ski ‘Team, helped arranged the clinic

llowship

with Rosener.

Initially, Graham thought

Slopes he’d opt out of racing day and sleep in,
but the opportunity to ski with an
Olympic athlete was just too good to pass up. Like a majority of the
alumni group, he gave the clinic and race the old college try and had a
great time in the process.

‘The day with Jason Rosener was just one of many pleasant sur-
prises in store for alumni on the trip. Once the skis and boots were put
away, evenings were filled with the music of Eric Heinsohn °83 and
Roger. Day °85, as well as classical pianist Rob Vienneau °87, "90L.

For Graham, the trip began more as a family vacation than an
alumni activity. Colorado Colonnade appealed to the Grahams
because it was an affordable, preplanned package.

“We didn’t expect to attend all of the scheduled events during

Ea

 

=

 

the weekend but found ourselves
enjoying them all,” he explained,
adding that the camaraderie among
fellow alumni enhanced the experi-
ence. “Having a daughter at W&L
certainly has strengthened my ties to
the University, but this trip may well
get me more involved with my alumni
chapter, too.”

Meanwhile, Carrie Graham got a
terrific first February break under her
belt and is hoping her family signs up
for next year’s trip.

— Wendy Lovell ’90

 

Randy Graham 72, right, with

daughter, Carrie (left), a member
of the class of 2004.

OO 1928—°

Percy Cohen

is 95 and still kicking. He is also a
member of the General’s Council.
He lives in Nashville, ‘Tenn.

O— 1932—o

John C. Harris

retired from Wholesale Grocery
Co. and sold his business in 1975.
He retired from several corporate
and charity committees in 2000.
He resides in an assisted living
home in Scottsboro, Ala.

David J. Wise

retired in 1988. For 48 years he was
the director of ABC Radio’s
Message of Israel weekly broad-
cast and many other shows. He has
been married since 1945 and is
now surrounded by two sons and
four grandchildren. He sends his
fondest greetings to all his surviv-
ing classmates. He lives in New

Rochelle, N.Y.

OO 1936—°

Frank L. Price

lives in his cottage at Wesley Palms
Retirement Community in San
Diego, where he is recovering
from congestive heart failure and
hospitalization past fall.

Charles A. Sweet

believes he is one of his class’ last
survivors. As he says, he is not
complaining. He lives in Engle-
wood, Fla.

O— 1937 —©

John W. Ray
feels he is getting too old. He lives
in Arlington, Va.

O._ 1938 —<—»
Charles F. Clarke Sr.

practices law at Squire, Sanders &
Dempsey in Cleveland, after more
than 54 years. Bill Clary is the only
classmate he has seen in recent
years. Clarke says he admires the
current state of the University and
its administrative Commitment to
excellence.

John E. Neill

and his wife, Mary, saw the college
campuses of Wellesley, Duke and
Santa Barbara while visiting three
of their grandchildren. ‘They both
are in good health and enjoying
local volunteer work. ‘They live in
Southern Pines, N.C.

Dr. Chester Schept
retired from dentistry and spends
his time traveling and doing volun-

 

teer work for United Cerebral
Palsy of Queens. His wife, Sophie,
passed away in January 2000. He
lives in Flushing, N.Y.

Calvert Thomas

had both knees replaced last
September. He has been recover-
ing since and is able to walk again.
He has regained about one inch in
height and has eliminated his limp.
He lives in Hartford, Conn.

O— 1939— ©

James W. Fishel

is semi-retired and works in adver-
tising three days a week. He has
four grandsons between the ages
of 10 and 16. He visits his daugh-
ters’ families in Oakland, Calif.,
and Newton, Mass., frequently.
He spent his summer vacation in
Switzerland. After 50 years of mar-
riage, his wife, Edith, passed away
in the fall of 1999. He misses her
terribly. He lives in New York.

Carret Hiers Jr.
sull swims and plays golf, albeit
not as well as some years ago. He is
helping one of his grandchildren
through college. He lives in
Daytona Beach, Fla.

Ceorge C. Kerr

and his wife, Florence, enjoy their
retirement life in the Amish coun-
try of Pennsylvania, where they
have lived since 1988. ‘They enjoy
the services that their house pro-
vides, especially the health care at
no additional cost. ‘The couple,
both in their 80s, are cancer sur-
vivors and get around pretty well.
‘They keep themselves busy doing
extensive volunteer work. Even
though their family reside in New
York state, and they do not get to
see each other as often as they
would like to, they keep in touch
through e-mail.

Randolph D. Rouse
is active in business and sports,
with little time left for traveling.
He lives in Arlington, Va.

OO 1940-2
Jackson C. Akin
would like to tell those who did
not attend the 60th reunion that
they missed out on a great week-
end. He lives in Albuquerque,

N.M.

John S. Broome

was inducted by the Louisiana
State University Alumni Associa-
tion into its Hall of Distinction at
its annual banquet last October.

He lives in Oxnard, Calif.

Michael P. Crocker

lives at Copper Ridge, a facility for
the mentally impaired, right next
door to Fairhaven, an Episcopal
non-profit retirement community
in Bel Air, Md. His diagnosis is
dementia. He enjoys visits from
friends as much as he enjoyed
Dish’s note in November.

Charles C. Curl Jr.

will be going sky diving in
Australia with his daughter. He
lives in St. Simon’s Island, Ga.

Hon. Ceorge M. Foote

had a wonderful time visiting and
hosting his 26 grandchildren across
every time zone and Canada.
Foote enjoyed seeing his class-
mates at the reunion this year and
only wished the 70th reunion was
next year. He lives in Alexandria,
La.

Roland S. Freeman

truly enjoyed his 60th class
reunion. He lives in Jacksonville,
Fla.

Dr. Zalmon H. Carfield

left his psychotherapy office in San
Francisco and re-established his
practice in his home in ‘Tiburon,
Marin County. He plans to retire in
the next year or two.

Dr. C. Watson James Ill
enjoyed the 60th class reunion,
especially meeting with old friends
such as Lawrence Carson, Charles
Curl, Jackson Akin and Ross
Hersey. He lives in Bon Atr, Va.

OW 1942—o°

Charles P. Didier

suffered a stroke last May and is
now sharing an assisted care unit
with his wife, Mary, who has suf-
fered from Parkinson’s for over 15
years. They live in a life care facil-
ity in Columbus, N.C., where they
retired some 20 years ago. ‘Their
children, C. D’Arey Didier °74L
and Angelica Didier Light °75L,
and grandsons J. D. Didier 96 and
Benjamin P. Didier "99 keep him
posted on W&L.

Lee D. Parker

does a little engineering consulting
and plays golf. He lives in
Hampton, Va.

C. Lane Sartor

misses Fred Pitzer, his class’
“cheerleader,” who died in
January. Sartor plays golf on his

 

 

/ Vat See! es ee

 

Washington and Lee student singing groups Southern Comfort and

JubiLee entertained the Charleston, S.C., chapter on Feb. 23. ‘The

reception and concert was in honor of George Washington’s birthday.

Among those attending were Bill Bruce °53 and his wife, Jane; Lee

and Kitty Gordy (parents of deceased Kenneth Gordy *91L), and

singers David Averyt "02, Jessica Lake ’04, Sarah Heatherington ’01

and Colin ‘Tate 01.

home course three days a week
and drills a few shallow gas wells to
keep everyone warm. He lives in
Shreveport, La.

Oo 1943 —©—»
William J. Noonan Jr.
enjoys spending time with his 16
grandchildren and seven step-
grandchildren. He visited his rela-
tives in Ireland last May and went
on a fabulous three-week tour
through South Africa in October.
Noonan feels blessed with good
health and a beautiful wife who
loves travel as much as he does. He
plays golf, enjoys photography and
is involved in many church activi-
ties. He lives in Pensacola, Fla.

John N. Peeples

marked a year with extensive travel.
His traveled to England in June,
China in August and to Germany
and Austria for Christmas and

New Year's. In February, he went
to Cuba. He hopes to return to
W&L for an Alumni College
before he heads back to Europe
this summer. He lives in Valdosta,
Ga.

Allen J. Sharitz

is sorry to have missed the Five-
Star Generals Homecoming festiv-
ities last October. A major opera-
tion has taken away his mobility;
lengthy travel is no more an option.
He lives in Port St. Lucie, Fla.

Patrick C. Warfield

is recording jazz and big band cas-
settes for disabled persons. He
lives in Clearwater, Fla.

OW 1944——>
John L. Barrett
retired 17 years ago and enjoys
every second of it. He lives in
Pauma Valley, Calif.

OO 1945——
Dr. Benjamin M. Kaplan
enjoys the private practice of cardi-
ology in Chicago and teaches at
Northwestern Medical School.

S2-me $946 —-C>
Barton P. Quaintance
enjoys retirement. He is traveling a
lot, reading, gardening, bonding
with his nine grandchildren and
following the activities at W&L
with great interest. He lives in
Wilmington, Del.

O 19486 —o

Fred L. Rush

returned from his 50th law class
reunion and made his first ever
hole-in-one shortly thereafter.
Rush has four children and six
grandchildren and lives with his
wife, Jeannine, in Linville, N.C.

Oo 1949 —<—»
James A. Anderson Ill
took a tip to New Zealand in
Kebruary. He lives in ‘lybee
Island, Ga.

Kenneth K. Lindell

is 98 percent retired and looks for-
ward to going fishing at last. He
lives in Canton, N.Y.

Charles T. Trussell

still writes his column for the
Orlando Sentinel newspaper. He
lives in Mc. Dora, Fla.

O.- 19 50 — ©»

Arthur A. Birney

stopped practicing law after 42
years. He and two sons are now
operating four golf courses in
Maryland. He is still sailing his lit-
tle schooner, which he finds a joy
to behold. He lives in Washington.

Ceorge W. Cinn

and his wife, Charlotte, had a great
time at reunions last May and
October. ‘They still recall the beau-
ty of the fall leaves in mid-October,
especially while taking trips
through southwest Virginia, West
Virginia. and Kentucky. Ginn
would like to thank everyone for
their great hospitality during his
visit to campus. He lives in Los
Angeles.

Donald A. Malmo

enjoyed the 50th reunion while
meeting classmates Houston H.
Harte, Gustave A. Fritchie and W.
Hale Barrett and their wives,
something they have been doing
at least twice a year for the past 25

years. Malmo still practices law in
Memphis, ‘Tenn., serving of coun-
sel with Baker, Donelson, Bear-
man & Caldwell.

Fred T. Moffatt Jr.

moved home to Shelbyville, Ky.
He now serves as a full-time inter-
im pastor of Graefenburg Baptist
Church in Shelby County.

J. Clenwood Strickler
retired on Oct. 1, 2000. He lives in
Roanoke.

O— 1951 —<»
Hon. Andrew B. Gallagher
retired in September 1999 after 21
years on the bench at the juvenile
court for Caddo Parish in
Louisiana. He served as chief
judge for five years since 1994. He
was temporarily assigned to family
section at the First Judicial District
Court from January through May
2000. He lives in Shreveport.

William H. Kyle Jr.

looks forward to attending his 50th
reunion. He lives in Hayden Lake,
Idaho.

Richard E. Whitson Jr.

is active with the U.S. Power
Squadrons and the Society of the
Founders and Patriots of America.
He lives in Norfolk.

OO 1952 —<—»

Ernest H. Clarke

took an elder hostel trip to the west
coast of England last May and
June. He then spent the summer
at a family cabin. Clarke reads to
kindergarten children once a week
and enjoys spending time with his
eight grandchildren. He lives in

New Bern, N.C.

Ceorge E. Eagle

has done a lot of traveling the past
year. He went to Italy in June, fol-
lowed by two back-to-back weeks
with the Alumni College. He con-
cluded with a trip to France with
Alumni College travelers. He is
cutting back in 2001 in anticipation
of a few weddings and a possible
run up to Canada. He’s looking for-
ward to his 50th reunion. He lives
in Washington.

Joseph J. Eisler

does the occasional consulting pro-
ject for the carpet industry, entertains
his grandchildren and travels exten-
sively with his wife, Joyce. Eisler 1s
looking forward to his 50th class
reunion. He lives in Berwyn, Pa.

 

 

Henry W.JonesJr. |
was honored with the Presidenual
Citation from the National
Hardwood | auumber Association for
and contributions to the
advancement of the hardwood
lumber! industry. Jones is the pub-
lisher of the “Hardwood Market
Report” and lives in Memphis,

his service

‘Tenn.

James W. Kidd

and his wife, Lilli, mov ed from their
Orcas Island idyll to the relative
hubbub of Lexington. As Kidd says,
“The Lexington of today is even
more exciting than 50 years ago.”

Julian B. Mohr

savs that as a former captain of the
W&L tennis team, he is endeavor-
ing to keep up the school’s repre-
sentation in Georgia tennis circles.
He is presently ranked seventh in
the state in singles competition for
his age bracket. He lives in Atlanta.

The Very Rev. Robert
Schenkel Jr.

and his wife, Anne, plan to visit
Lexington for his 50th reunion.
They live in Bethlehem, Pa.

SO 1953 —°©»
H. William Hoffman
is the author of Blood and Guile
published by HarperCollins last
November. He lives in Charlotte
Court House, Va.

Jay W. Jackson

practices law in Hartford, Conn.,
with the firm of Jackson, O’Keefe
& Phelan.

John B. Kinkead

is the CEO and chairman of Turfco
Manufacturing Inc., where his son,
George ’85, serves as the president
and his younger son, Scott ’91, as
the vice president. They live in St.
Paul, Minn.

Stephen F. Lichtenstein

is almost retired. Together with his
wife, Carole, he spends much of
his time at their home in Stowe,
Vt. The couple stay busy visiting
their four children and eight grand-
children.

Rodney F. Stock

fecovered from treatment on his
nght foot and is happy to be walk-
ing again. He lives in Fernley, Nev.

A L U M N

OW 1954—o°

Warren T. Braham

has fully retired from banking and
lawyering. He spends his time
between home in Round Hill, Va.,
and his beach house in Emerald
Isle, N.C. Braham has nine grand-
children and is fully enjoying life.

Dr. Herwig R.
Brandstetter

is a trustee of the Austrian Black
Cross/War Graves Commission,
which is building a monument to
peace and understanding among
nations in Gordok, Ukraine. He
also serves as the president of the
Society of the Friends of the City
Museum of Graz, Austria, where
he lives. His 14 grandchildren give
him lots of joy.

Dr. Christopher Collins
out-rowed several national cham-
pions, a former Olympic sculler
and 55 other men over 60 to win
the gold medal at the Head of the
Charles Regatta held in Boston last
October. Collins is still brokering
commercial farm and historic prop-
erties in the Shenandoah Valley
and produced Staunton’s Victorian
Spring Festival.

Dr. Horace D. Douty

and his wife Ellen bought the
house next door to classmate
Frank Parsons on Whitmore Street
in Lexington. ‘Their primary resi-
dence remains at Millstream Farm
in Culpeper, Va. However, the cou-
ple loves Lexington and hope to
move permanently in a few years.

Robert D. Lahr

enjoys retirement by judging
antique car shows and being a
member of three car clubs. He
lives in Charlotte, N.C.

Rev. J. Fletcher Lowe Jr.

is executive director of Virginia
Interfaith Center for Public Policy,
representing 17 Christian denomi-
nations, several Jewish groups and
‘The Islamic Center of Virginia on
issues of social justice before the
state government. Lowe also spent
four months as interim rector of
the American Episcopal Church in
Geneva, Switzerland. He lives in
Richmond.

Sedgwick L. Moss

is sometimes called Sedge “The
Hobby Guy,” as he spends his
time presenting programs on his
many interests to local senior clubs
and groups in his hometown of
Arlington, Va. He also received the

Old ‘Time Radio Club’s 2000 Stan
Cawelti Award in recognition of his
outstanding membership.

Dr. Harold J. Quinn Jr.
retired from medical practice in
Shreveport, La. He has been living
in Chapel Hill, N.C., for the past
five years. Quinn enjoys sleeping
in late, waking up slowly and read-
ing The New York Times. He met
Rev. J. Fletcher Lowe °54 in Rich-
mond last year. Quinn has three
children and two grandchildren.

Charles C. Rauh

retired in April 2000. He now lives
in Naples, Fla., in a golfing com-
munity called Wyndemere Marie.
Rauh has 14 grandchildren.

“O— 1955 —©—>»
Dr. Richard W. Bank
manages First- lier Biotechnology
Partners, a hedge fund focused on
the intersection of biotechnology
and Wall Street. He lives in
Beverly Hills, Calif.

David M. Berlinghof

and his wife, Cindy, took their first
W&L Alumni trip to South Africa
and loved every moment of it.
‘They have three grandchildren
whom they would love to send to
W&L one day. They live in
Wilmette, Ill.

Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr.

was named Hoosier Historian for
the year 2000 by the Indiana
Historical Society. Author, editor or

annotator of more than a dozen pub-
lished local, regional, corporate and
institutional histories, he is retired as
executive editor of 7he Munice Star
and Munae vening Press.

“O._ 1956 — —»
Dr. Aristides C.
Alevizatos
is retired and enjoys traveling, his
grandchildren and raising Angus
Steers and horses on his small farm
in Western Run area of Baltimore
County.

Jean-Marie C.
Crandpierre

will not be able to return to W&L
for spring reunion. A combination of
fortunate circumstances allowed
him to visit the campus for two days
last October, and he enjoyed them
very much. Long live W&L!

James B. Lunger

enjoys his retirement. He is look-
ing forward to the 45th reunion in
May and hopes to see many class-
mates again. He lives in Waynes-
boro, Va.

William C. Norman Jr.

and his wife, Clair, enjoyed recon-
necting with KA fraternity broth-
ers from the 1950s in the last three
years. The locations have ranged
from Florida to South Carolina,
North Carolina and Virginia, as
well as on several Alumni College
trips. ‘They live in Crossett, Ariz.

Call:to Serviges. we nok

William H. Fishback Jr.

(right) a member of W&Ls

Board of ‘Irustees, was
installed as a member of
the Protestant Episcopal
Cathedral Foundation
Chapter in Washington
on Dec. 21, 2000. ‘The
Foundation Chapter was
founded in 1891 and char-

tered by the U.S. Congress

in 1893. ‘The ceremony took

 
 
   
  

place at the Cathedral Church of

Saint Peter and Saint Paul. Attending the service in addition to

Fishback’s family was Bill Fitzgerald III °56 (left), a classmate and

fraternity brother of Fishback’s.

 

 

 

John K. Oast

retired from Wachovia Bank on
long-term disability in 1997. He
lives in Portsmouth, Va.

oO... § 9 5 FT ——_—>

Carl F. Barnes Jr.

retired from Oakland University
on Jan. 1 and was appointed pro-
fessor emeritus of art history. He
lives in Rochester, Mich.

Joseph C. Knakal Jr.

was nominated by his peers for
special note in real estate/construc-
tion law in Virginia Business maga-
zine’s Legal Elite section. He is
employed with Caskie & Frost in
Lynchburg, Va.

John D. Marsh

and his wife, Nancy, have discov-
ered the Alumni College trips as a
quality opportunity for educational
travel. ‘Their first destination was
Ireland, while the ‘luscany region
of northern Italy is on the calendar
for 2001. ‘Their company on these
trips is Page Cranford °58 and his
wife, Ginny. ‘The Marches live in
Purcellville, Va.

O._- 4 9 5 8 —__C»

James J. Crawford Jr.

and his wife, Joan, moved to
Lexington in 1999 after Jay’s
retirement from the international
oil and gas business.

Samuel C. Dudley

was appointed by Gov. James
Gilmore to serve on the board of
directors of the Virginia Resources
Authority. He thoroughly enjoys
working in the investment busi-
ness and hopes to continue so for
the next five years. He lives in
Richmond.

Robert C. Pearson
retired from Fifth ‘Vhird Bank in
August 1999. He now resides on
Hilton Head Island, S.C.

Dr. Nelson S. Teague
visited his classmate and fraternity
brother Pete ‘lannahill at
‘Tannahill’s 18th-century French
Mediterranean villa. He lives in
Roanoke.

Dr. Watson C. Watring

is a retired oncologist. He is now
working on his new career in act-
ing. He lives in La Canada, Calif.

O.._- {4 9 SB 9 —__C>

John H. Esperian
published a section on trains in the

forthcoming edition of the
Encyclopedia of Popular Culture. He
is director of prison education at
the Community College of
Southern Nevada in Las Vegas.

Bertrand R. Hudnall Il
works on an independent basis in
jobs that relate to his career as an
educator. With Charleston, S.C., as
his base, he owns a consulting busi-
ness called ‘The Next Step, which
focuses on helping families find col-
leges and prep schools. He also
works with schools that are looking
for teachers and administrators and
serves as a regional representative
for a college. Additionally, he is the
consultant to Ashley Hall’s College
counseling program.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
served as a plenary speaker for the
international conference on juve-
nile justice in Singapore in
September 2000. He was also
inducted as fellow of the Virginia
Law Foundation past January. He
lives in Richmond.

Laurence M. Smail

retired as attorney with the
Department of Army in 1999 and
now serves as assistant professor at
the Florida Institute of ‘lechnolo-
gy. He lives in Newport News, Va.

Jere H. Williams

is scout executive of the Jersey
Shore Council, Boy Scouts of
America. He also is active in the
Rotary Club of ‘Toms River and
the First United Methodist
Church of ‘Toms River, N.]J.

Hon. J. Davis Reed Ill
retired from the bench after more
than 21 years as a juvenile and
domestic relations court judge in
Virginia Beach, Va. He looks for-
ward to some traveling, boating,
spending more time with his
grandchildren and working part
time as a substitute judge.

Dr. Joseph E. Ringland
enjoyed the reunion last May. He
lives in Princeton, N.J.

Dr. Horace C. Robison Jr.
is married, retired, happy, raising
dahlias, enjoying children, grand-
children and three cats. He lives in
Ridgefield, Wash.

Karl E. Rohnke

started a new company in Vermont
called the High 5 Adventure
Learning Center after completing

 

28+ years with Project Adventure.
He lives in ‘lownshend, Vt.

Richard N. Tager

resides in Annapolis, Md. He is
the president of AHD Inc., a
developer of multi-family housing.

Raymond E. Wooldridge
was appointed chairman of the
board of trustees at the University
of Dallas, where he lives. Now a
private investor, he retired as vice
chairman and chairman of the
Executive Committee of South-
west Securities Group Inc.

SO, 4. OB. 1 .—-G>

Lt. Col. Clinton L.
Anderson

was inducted into the International
Adult and Continuing Education
Hall of Fame in San Antonio. He
was also recognized for his contribu-
tions to the Department of Defense
Voluntary Education Program from
1996 to 2000.

Richard W. Hoover

was re-appointed commissioner on
the Lord Fairfax District Planning
Commission, where he is active in
working against untoward devel-
opment in the Shenandoah Valley.
He also continues as commander
of the John S. Mosby Camp, Sons
of Confederate Veterans, and is
also the president-elect of the
Front Royal Kiwanis Club. On the
weekends he pursues his Antiguo
Arms business.

Winston E. Kock Jr.

will not be able to attend the 40th
reunion as he will be at a family
house in the Bahamas in May. He
would like to wish everyone a
happy 40th! He lives in Petaluma,
Calif.

William B. McWilliams

is vice president of business devel-
opment for eScout, an electronic
solutions and e-business provider.
He is pleased to announce the birth
of his granddaughter, Hannah
Elizabeth, in April 1999. He lives in
Raleigh, N.C.

Ronald L. Randel

reured in 1999. He and his wife,
Madge, moved to Greeley, Colo., to
be closer to their three children,
Paige, Brad and April. Randel is
happy to announce the birth of his
second grandchild, ‘late Alexander,
on Nov. 29, 2000. Randel concen-
trates on commercial real estate
brokerage.

Richard D. Ruhle Jr.

retired after 38 years of active law
practice and fully enjoys all his free
time. He lives in Anderson, S.C.

Dr. Firth S. Spiegel

is practicing surgery in the small
town of Hazlehurst, Ga., and
enjoying it.

“O— § 9 6 2 —_C

William R. Anderson Jr.
will retire this summer after 30
years of teaching English at
Huntingdon College. He and his
wife, Nancy, will continue living in
Montgomery, Ala.

John W. Boyle Jr.

announces the birth of his second
grandchild, Jacob Steven, on Aug.
20, 2000. He lives in Penhook, Va.

Hon. Charles R. Butler Jr.
was appointed to serve on the
Executive Committee of the
Judicial Conference by Chief
Justice William H. Rehnquist of
the U.S. Supreme Court. He lives
in Mobile, Ala.

Paul B. Clemenceau
expects to be going to Paris more
frequently, now that the new Paris
office of Mayer, Brown and Platt
has re-opened. He lives in
Houston.

Dr. H. Allen Curran

received the Smith Senior Faculty
‘Teaching Award after 30 years of
teaching at Smith College. He was
appointed the William R. Kenan
Jr. Professor of Geology last July. At
present, he has projects going in
the Bahamas, Belize and the
Dominican Republic. Four young
grandkids keep him and his wife
busy and smiling. He lives in
Easthampton, Mass.

Simon M. Painter Jr.
received a liver transplant at the
University of Virginia last Septem-
ber. So far, he is doing fine. He
lives in Staunton, Va.

James A. Russ

and his wife, Rita, are enjoying
their three granddaughters and life
on the Chesapeake Bay. He lives
in Stevensville, Md.

Clark D. Valentiner

is a partner in a John Deere
Dealership in Whiteville, N.C. He
plays tennis once a week. His wife,
Sally, is a recruiter-counselor at
Bladen Community College. His

 

 

1 works with the Bank of
‘ny Charlotte while his
Srewart, is a sophomore

son, Davi
America

other son,
in college.

DO 1963 —“—”

H. Kirk Henry

and his wife, Barbara, spent the
winter in SUNNY Southern Calif-
ornia. [hey returned to Evanston,
II.. for the summer and will move
permanently ro California in
Septembe! 2001.

Dr. Edward W. Holmes Jr.
became vice chancellor for Health
Sciences and dean of the School of
Medicine at the University of
California in San Diego.

O 1964 — ©»
Dr. Thomas C. Lewis
retired from the U.S. Army
Reserve at the rank of lieutenant
colonel. He lives in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

E. Cotton Rawls Jr.

is proud to have earned his degree
from W&L. He resides in Darien,
Conn.

Henry M. Sackett Ill

was nominated by his peers for
special note in litigation law in
Virginia Business magazine’s Legal
Elite section. He is a lawyer with
Edmunds & Williams in
Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. James C. Smith Jr.

is chief of interventional radiology
at Worcester Medical Center and
enjoys sailing, windsurfing and
biking on Cape Cod in Falmouth,
Mass.

Dr. Peter S. Trager

Was appointed to the Georgia State
Board of Dental Examiners by
Gov. Ray Barnes. He practices
general dentistry in Marietta, Ga.

Frank W. Wright

celebrated his retirement by hik-
ing the Appalachian trail. He
began in Georgia in March 2000
and finished in Maine in
pembes He lives in Big Canoe,
xa.

1965 — <>»

Norman Yoerg

traveled to New Zealand with his
daughters, Virginia and Ana, for
three weeks of back country hik-
ing, Mountain climbing, sea kayak-
ing and sailing. He earned his
M.B.A. from Eastern Michigan

University in April 2000. He lives
in Dearborn, Mich.

“O— 1966 —©—»
Leslie A. Crandis
was nominated by his peers for
special note in corporate law in
Virginia Business magazine’s Legal
Elite section. He is a lawyer with
MecGuireWoods in Richmond.

Thornton M. Henry

took a group of 17 into the Amazon
in June 2000. In two weeks, the
group constructed two housing
facilities for a Bible institute.
Afterward they drove 400 kilome-
ters into the jungle to stay with a
Chavante Indian tribe. He lives in
West Palm Beach, Fla.

Kenneth McCraw

was named the L. Stacy Davidson
Chair of Liberal Arts at University
of Mississippi, an appointment
influenced, no doubt, by training
he received from Sid Coulling,
Severn Duvall, George Ray and
colleagues in W&Ls English
department. He lives in Oxford,
Miss.

Dr. Sidney F. Parham lll
took early retirement from his
position as professor of English at
St. Cloud State University to
accept the position of academic
vice president at Education Plus
Corp., an emotional growth high
school in Hancock, N.Y. Parham
and his wife, Rita Argiros, live in
Hancock.

Dr. James E. Redenbaugh
and his wife, Carol, celebrated
their 25th anniversary in Hawaii.
‘Their son, Jonathan °99, attends
Lake Erie College of Osteopathic
Medicine, while their daughter,
Marcie, is a sophomore at the
University of Delaware. ‘They live
in Macungie, Pa.

1967 —<°»
William H. Jeffress Jr.
announces the birth of his first
grandson, Lincoln David, last
December. Jeffress’ law firm
merged with Bahen Botts L.L.P,
where he will be a partner in the
1).C. office trying cases in federal
courts.

Frank W. Morrison

was nominated by his peers for
special note in family law in
Virginia Business magazine’s Legal
Elite section. He is a partner in the
law firm of Philips, Morrison &
Johnson in Rustburg, concentrat-

 

Five hearty W&L seamen survived a cruise from Maryland north

to Maine, then south to Florida on the good ship “Sequel.” From
left: Roane Lacy °68, Mike Miles *68; EL. Wilson °68, Tom
Pittman ’68 and Jim Crothers ’66.

ing in family law and divorce medi-
ation. He was elected member of
the Virginia Bar Association
Executive Committee.

Dr. Robert I. Ostroff

retired from the practice of emer-
gency medicine and now spends
his time watching his three grand-
sons grow, taking long motorcycle
rides and trying to keep up with
the demands of a 100-year-old
home. He lives in Petaluma, Calif.

“O__ 196 8 —_ ©»

M. Ray Bradford Jr.

lives in the frosty reaches of north-
eastern Maine, and his solo law
practice is located in Bangor,
Maine. ‘This past year Bradford
served as president of both the
Rotary Club and the Penobscot
County Bar Association. He
recently ran into’ Nathaniel
Clement °67 at a National Law
Conference in Orlando.

Douglas S. Craig Jr.

is an associate with Singleton,
Cooksey, Hanson & Lamberth
L..LL.P. in Houston.

Robert H. Moll

is very proud that his son, ‘lim,
decided to enroll at W&L. His
being in Lexington gives his father
all the more reason to visit W&L.
As he noticed, the school is under-
going quite a physical transforma-
tion. ‘The long-overdue Commons
is something ‘lim will experience
only for a short period of time,
though.

Samuel B. Preston

and his wife, Francie, live in the
Netherlands, where he serves as
the manager of Rabobank’s global
back office. His work focuses on
investment banking and _ the
bank’s international operations in
Europe. Preston would enjoy see-
ing or hearing from classmates or
friends as they pass through
Europe.

H. William Walker Jr.
returned to the practice of law with
his former firm, White & Case
L..L.P., and will head the real estate
department in the Miami office.

Oo 1969 — ©»

Ray V. Hartwell Ill

was nominated by his peers for
special note in information tech-
nology/intellectual property law in
Virginia Business magazine’s Legal
Elite section. Hartwell is a lawyer
with Hunton & Williams in
Washington.

W. Steven Jones

returned to Alaska for a four-year
assignment securing re-authoriza-
tion of the ‘Irans-Alaska Pipeline.
His retirement will follow.

“O—_ 1970 — ©»

Stuart C. Fauber

is the president of Suntrust Bank
in Lynchburg, Va. He retired from
the U.S. Naval Reserve at the rank
of captain after 33 years of service.
He was elected to the Lynchburg
College Business and Economics
Hall of Fame. Stuart and his wife,
Beth, have a granddaughter, Ella,
and a grandson, Whit.

 

W a

 

Birthday Buffet.

 

The Mid-South Chapter gathered at the home of Mr. and Mrs.

Thomas C. Lee Jr. in Memphis, ‘Tenn., on Jan. 25 to celebrate

Robert E. Lee’s birthday. Among those attending were: (back row,

left to right) Andy Brown 65; Bruce Moore °81; Beth Carson; Lisa

Brown (Joel Brown °65), ‘Tom Jennings and Milburn Noell °51,
’54L. Seated in front were: Edward ‘Taylor ’81 and Woody Noell.

Dr. Andrew M. Combos Jr.
was transferred to the United Arab
Emiates where he is seconded
from ExxonMobil Production Co.
to ADCO, the Abu Dhabi Co. for
Onshore Oil Exploration. He is a
geophysicist in charge of interpre-
tation of 3-D seismic data from the
super giant Bu Hasa oil field and
will be in Abu Dhabi for three
years. W&L alumni in the vicinity
are invited to drop in.

Dr. Stuart L. Porter
received the ‘lechnology in Educa-
tion Award from the Virginia
Community College System for the
design and implementation of the
Veterinary ‘lechnology Distance
Education Program. ‘The program
received full accreditation by the
American Veterinary Medical
Association last October. He lives in
Fort Defiance, Va.

E. Angus Powell Jr.

received the Distinguished
Federal Leadership Award from
the Association of Government
Accountants for his efforts to pro-
mote excellence in government
management. Powell is responsi-
ble for the day-to-day administra-
tion of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, which provides compensa-
tion, pension and health care ben-
efits to more than 5 million veter-
ans and which administers 119
national cemeteries. He lives in
Washington.

Hon. John E. Wetsel Jr.

was elected to an initial one-year
term as the judicial representative
on the Virginia Bar Association
Executive Committee. Wetsel sits
on the bench of the 26th Circuit
Court in Winchester.

O— 1971—o

S. Stacy Eastland

joined the Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., a leading global investment
bank and securities firm, to expand
its estate planning team by work-
ing as a member of the strategic
wealth advisory team in the private
wealth management group.

Robert R. Jensen

celebrated the opening of his new
play Wallenberg: the Righteous One at
Fullerton College last December.
‘The play was nominated by the
Kennedy Center/American College
‘Theater Festival for the Fourth
Freedom Playwrighting Award.
‘The play’s opening corresponded
with the admission by Russian
authorities that Raoul Wallenberg
had been murdered during his
incarceration in the Soviet Union.
He lives in Fullerton, Calif.

B. Christopher Lee

was elected to the board of trustees
of The Architecture and Design
Charter High School of Philadel-
phia. Lee is a construction law
attorney, employed with Jacoby
Donner PC. He lives in Strafford,
Pa.

Bradfield F. Wright

is looking forward to the gradua-
tion of his son, Philip ’01, in June,
though he will miss his frequent
visits to Lexington. He lives in
Houston.

OO 1972 —<»
J. Charles Lee
is the new branch manager of the
Anderson, S.C., office of Salomon
Smith Barney, a leading global
investment bank and securities
brokerage firm.

Dr. W. Wade Peery

served as the president of the
Virginia Surgical Society in 2000.
He lives in Galax, Va.

Stephen W. Robinson

was nominated by his peers for
special note in labor and employ-
ment law in Virginia Business maga-
zine’s Legal Elite section. He is a
lawyer with McGuireWoods in
McLean, Va.

James E. Thomas Jr.
says his daughter, Katherine, has
just completed her first year at
W&L. He lives in Atlanta.

OO 1973 —-—<—»

Rev. Jeffrey C. Burris

is a part-time chaplain at
Methodist Hospital in Indiana-
polis, ministering to transplant
patients. It has been 12 years since
Jeff received his own transplant.
He continues to practice disability
law three days a week and also
brings out his palette and brush for
competition a few times a year.

C. Christopher Ciragosian
was nominated by his peers for
special note in corporate law in
Virginia Business magazine’s Legal
Elite section. He is employed
with Hunton & Williams in
McLean, Va.

Dr. Ronald A. Pen

is professor in musicology with an
emphasis on American music at
the University of Kentucky in
Lexington. He serves as the direc-
tor of the John Jacob Niles Center
for American Music at UK. He also
plays fiddle with two local bands,
‘The Biscuit Boys and Island
Rocky.

OO 1974—2
Scott S. Ainslie
received the National Slide Guitar
Festival Living Heritage Award in
the acoustic blues category. Ainslie

is a blues performer, recording
artist, author and teacher, living in
Durham, N.C.

Dr. Kevin J]. Coppersmith
started a new consulting firm
focusing on technical decision
analysis. His son, Kevin, finished
his freshman year at W&L and
loved it.

Ray-Eric Correia

was named principal of the high
school at Roanoke Catholic School
last August. He and his wife,
Kathleen, celebrated their 25th
wedding anniversary that same
month.

Cc. Watson Tebo Jr.

became a sales representative for
IMPATH Inc. in Baton Rouge, La.,
in May 2000. He was also inducted
into the 2001 International Whos
Who of Professionals.

OO 1975 —<—»

Paul Burnap

completed the Dallas White Rock
marathon. He was on the track to
win the event but was nosed-out at
the finish line by several hundred
other runners. It was his first
attempt at the 26.2-mile distance.
He lives in Smyrna, Ga.

Steven L. Dauterman

is a senior trust officer at Fifth
‘Third Bank in Cincinnati and the
leader of the probate group. He
continues to be active as a per-
former in the Cincinnati music
scene. He resides in suburban
Anderson township together with
his wife, his son, Michael, 13, and
his daughter, Elizabeth, 9.

Edmond B. Cregory Ill
became CFO of the Frederick
News-Post after a seven-month
foray in the start-up dot-com sec-
tor. He enjoys living and working
in Frederick, Md. His daughter,
Brodie, will be a junior at W&L,
which gives her father more oppor-
tunities to visit Big Lex.

Channing J. Martin

was nominated by his peers for
special note in environmental law
in Virginia Business magazine’s
Legal Elite section. Martin is a
lawyer with Williams, Mullen,
Clark & Dobbins in Richmond.

Steven W. Van Amburgh

is having fun with his new job. He
serves as the CEO/president of
Koll Development Co., a national
development company dealing

 

 

_

 

with commercial and corporate
propertics. His wife, Ann, and his
children, Sam, Kate and Pete, are
doing great in Dallas.

o— 1976——
Robert L. Amsler Jr. rs
cook a wonderful trp to the U.K.
and Ireland with his in-laws last
October. He was also honored to
be a reader at the wedding of R.
Brooke Lewis 76, °83L and
Kathryn Zunich last September.
He lives in Catlett, Va.

Malcolm R. Hastings

is happy to announce that his son,
Patrick, will enter W&L next fall.
Hastings lives in Atlanta with his
wife, Kathy, his son and his daugh-

ter, Jeanne.

John R. Henzel Jr.

was named chair of the School of
Business at Emmanuel College in
1999. Henzel lives in Royston, Ga.,
together wife his wife, Judy, his
daughter, Joanna, 19, and his son
John III, 12.

Patrick K. Sieg

relocated to Rockville, Md., where
he works at Marriott Headquarters
as the vice president of finance.

OD 1977 —<—>»
Dr. Solomon C. Brotman
served as the chairman of the Florida
board of dentistry last year. ‘The
Brotman Facial Pain Center at the
University of Maryland was named
in honor of him and his father. One
other highlight last year was partici-
pating in his third Boston Marathon.
He lives in Adiantic Beach, Fla.

Dr. Michael H. Clary
practices family medicine in Rich-
lands, Va. Clary and his wife, Jane,
have two children, Faith, 5, and
‘Travis, 4.

Dr. James D. Cury

looks forward to seeing everyone at
the 25th reunion. He lives in
Atlantic Beach, Fla.

T. Nicholas Gill

Is a residential real estate broker in
the D.C. area. He is married and
has three children.

Stephen D. Good

Was clected managing partner of
Gardere, Wynne & Sewell L.L.P,
4 general practice law firm with
4pproximately 300 attorneys and
Offices in Dallas. Houston, ‘Tulsa,
Okla., and Mexico City. He lives in
Dallas,

Walter D. Kelley Jr.

was nominated by his peers for
special note in litigation. He was
selected for inclusion in 7he Best
Lawyers in America 2001-2002.
Kelley is a lawyer with Willcox &
Savage PC. in Norfolk, Va.

Peter R. Torgerson

enjoys his life in the beautiful Rio
Grande Valley of ‘Texas with his
wife, Julie, and his children,
Kelsey, Courtney and Nick. He
met with classmates James
Ferguson and William Broders in
San Francisco.

Warren T. Wolfe

graduated from Wake Forest
University School of Law with a
J.D. in 1982. He got married the
same year and is now the father of
two boys, 14 and 12. Wolfe served
in the Marine Corps as a judge
advocate from 1983 to 1991 and
left with the rank of captain. He
has been in private practice for the
past 10 years. He attended all five
of his reunions and is ready for the
25th in 2002. He lives in New
Bern, N.C.

OW 1978~——>>

Stephen J. Marzo

took advantage of 20 years in
commercial investment banking
and joined a start-up e-finance
company as its CFO. He success-
fully closed Asia’s first debt
financing deal for an Internet
finance company and is eager for
more. Even though he is expect-
ed to spend fewer hours working
and more time with his three
boys, he is still burning the mid-
night oil. He lives in Hong Kong.

Lee W. Muse Jr.

retired from his 10-year career with
DDIC as vice president of sales
and marketing. Currently he
remains active with private equity
investments, a number of advisory
positions, community organiza-
tions, golf, and, most importantly,
his family. He lives with his wife,
Sandy, and three boys, Lee III, 16,
‘lucker, 13, and Alex, 10, in
Mission Viejo, Ca.

Lloyd R. Sams

joined BIA Financial Network as
president last fall and relocated from
Charlotte, N.C., to Oakton, Va.

OO 1979 —&>
William F. Bernart IV
is a principal with Pricewater-
houseCoopers, specializing in sup-
ply chain management and e-busi-

 

ness. He lives in Charlotte, N.C.,
with his wife, Cindi, son, Bill, 8,
and daughter, Kate, 3.

Lt. Col. Freeman E. Jones
transferred to the CIA and works
in the military and special pro-
grams division. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Dirk R. Pieper

serves as the managing director for
Milliken Automotives. Pieper, his
wife, Katherine, and their four chil-
dren reside in Manchester, Eng-
land.

Maj. J. Randolph Sacks
moved to Alexandria, Va., together
with his wife, ‘Tina, and his daugh-
ters, Katherine and Melanie. Sacks
is assigned to Army material com-
mand.

O 1979— >

Neil J. Welch Jr.

was promoted to branch chief in
the division of enforcement of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in Washington. He
serves on the board of directors of
the D.C. chapter of the W&L
Alumni Association. He played in
that chapter’s inaugural softball
and flag football seasons and

directed the chapter's ninth annual
golf tournament.

O— | 980——c—»

Dr. Daniel J. Carucci

was awarded the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Award for Excellence in
Military Medicine. His major con-
tributions to Navy medicine range
from his work as an operational
flight surgeon caring for marines
and sailors to being a cutting-edge
molecular biologist working on
advanced malaria genomics re-
search. He lives in Washington.

Lawrence K. Cumprich
joined the Virginia Department of
Social Services as chief deputy
commissioner for finances, policy
and administration. Gumprich and
his wife, Sherry, have two children,
Alyson, 7, and Joseph, 4, and they
live in Colonial Heights, Va.

Dr. Carl E. Lowder Jr.

has been practicing neurosurgery
in ‘lallahassee, Fla., for the past 10
years. Carl and his wife, ‘Theresa,
have three children, Carl III, 9,
Caroline, 7, and Christopher, 2 1/2.

O_ 1981 —©&>

Dr. John C. P. Boatwright Jr.
and his wife, Barbara, have been

 

oe Slay °72 and his wife, Martha, don’t

dwell on their son Andrew’s limitations. Instead, they turn their

energies toward helping him and
others like him who suffer from
spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a
devastating group of diseases that
affects the motor neurons of the
spinal cord and brain stem. The
Slays founded “Andrew’s Buddies”
a decade ago to raise money for
research and treatment of SMA. It is
the number one inherited killer of

 

children under 2; it affects approximately one of every 10,000

children. Andrew, now 14, was diagnosed at 14 months.

Parents Magazine recently named the Slays “Parents of the

Month” for their work, family focus, fortitude and charity leader-

ship. ‘The family, including Patrick, 12, and Megan, 6, live in

Richmond. Joe Slay is president of Martin Public Relations and is

a member of W&L’s Communications Advisory Board. Read

more about Andrew’s Buddies and SMA at www.fightsma.com

 

 

 

 

king for a wonderful place to stay on your
next vacation or business trip? Look no farther than your alumni
directory. For three Washington and Lee alumni, planning special
events and providing luxury accommodations are all in a day’s work.

If you enjoy bird-watching, hiking, golfing, horseback riding or
fishing, head for ‘Tennessee. Birdsong Lodge in Ashland City, was
built around 1912 as the summer home of Lesley and Mabel Cheek
of Maxwell House Coffee fame. ‘The cedar lodge is perched on a bluff
overlooking the Cheatham Wildlife Management Area and is a mere
30 minutes from downtown Nashville. Innkeeper Rob Pilling ’74 and

THE SHEPPARD MANSION IN HANOVER, PA.,

IS RUN BY KATHY SHEPPARD ’°97 AND
HER SISTER HEATHER ‘’OO.

 

his wife, Bett, recently renovated the lodge and private cottage,
which showcase a lovely collection of antiques and artwork.

‘The Sheppard Mansion in Hanover, Pa., is another great week-
end getaway and provides a unique opportunity for corporations and
business travelers, as well. Built in 1913 as the private residence of
H.D. and Henrietta Sheppard of the Hanover Shoe Co., the mansion
was restored in 1999 by their descendants, including sisters Kathy "97
and Heather Sheppard ’00, who now run the B&B.

Rich in architectural detail and situated on one-and-one-half acres
of lush formal gardens, the 27-room mansion is ideal for outdoor wed-
dings and other special occasions. It also is equipped for corporate meet-
ings, conferences and retreats. Not many B&Bs offer PC data ports in
every room, and that attention to detail has earned the Sheppards quite
a reputation among, corporate clients. One favorite room is the Lee
Room. All suites are named for branches of the Sheppard’s family tree,
and, yes, there is a distant connection to Robert E. Lee.

For more information on Birdsong Lodge, call 615-792-1767 or
visit them on the Internet at www.birdsonglodge.com. ‘To contact
Sheppard Mansion, call 877-S-Mansion or go to www.sheppard-
mansion.com.

—Wendy Lovell 90

 

 

married for 12 years. ‘They have
two children, Ross, 10, and Grace,
8. He is practices ophthalmology at
Carolina EyeCare Physicians
L..L.C. The family lives in Mount
Pleasant, S.C.

R. Christopher Cammon
earned the Chartered Financial
Analyst designation from the
Association for Investment Man-
agement and Research. He is man-
aging director in the Charlotte,
N.C., office of OFFTTBANK, a
subsidiary of Wachovia Corpora-
tion.

OO 1982 —-©»

Charles H. Prioleau

was appointed executive managing
director and head for the U.S. oil &
gas group of BMO Nesbitt Burns.
He specializes in the energy sector,
focusing on mergers and acquisition
and corporate finance origination.
He lives in Houston.

Dr. M. Parker Roberts Ill
joined Casco Bay Surgery, a multi-
specialty surgical group in
Portland, Maine.

John R. Smith

joined Integrated Marketing Solu-
tions, an Internet start-up firm where
he is the director of business devel-
opment. IMS provides Internet mar-
keting and database management
services to 500 companies in the
banking, healthcare, association and
non-profit sectors. Smith enjoyed a
great duck hunt with Dr. Charles
‘Terr ’80 last Christmas Eve. He lives
in Richmond.

James P. Wenke

and his family remain in the sub-
urbs of Philadelphia. With his wife,
Wendy, and his daughters Jennifer,
13, and Lany, 11, he lives in their
new house in Malvern, Pa. He con-
tinues in his position of principal
for the management consulting
firm William M. Mereer Inc.

Edward S. Yastrow

is married and has three children,
Alex, 13, Maggie, 10, and Jackie, 2.
He lives in Riverwoods, Ill.

OO 1983 —-—<—>»

John K. Butler

was named a member of the
Catholic Community Founda-
tion’s board of directors. Butler is a
partner in the investment advisory
firm of Mairs & Power Inc. He and
his wife, Cecelia, reside in White
Bear Lake, Minn.

William M. Peery

lives in Falls Church, Va., teaching
and coaching eighth graders at the
Potomac School in McLean, Va.
Peery is taking a break from the
environmental consulting field and
certainly enjoying the respite.

Bennett L. Ross

was appointed general counsel of
BellSouth Corp.’s Georgia opera-
tions. He lives in Atlanta with his
wife, Alyson, and sons, Jacob and
Samuel.

H. Bowen Woodruff

is the rector of The Anglican
Church of Incarnation — in
Cambridge, Mass.

O— 1984—©2

Thomas C. Connors

is an assistant professor of history at
University of Northern lowa in
Cedar Falls. He was inducted into
ODK last fall.

Roland J. Simon

is director of purchasing for
Goodyear ‘lire and Rubber in
Europe, the Middle East and
Africa. Simon resides in
Luxembourg, together with his
wife, ‘Toril, and — children
Aleksander and Isabel.

Eric C. Storey

was appointed vice president,
business development, of Supply
Chain Consultants, a provider of
advanced supply chain planning
solutions. Storey will direct the
marketing and sales of SCC’s soft-
ware and professional services. His
primary responsibility is to bring
the company’s Zemeter Supply
Chain planning technology to mar-
ket. He lives in Phoenixville, Pa.

Michael S. Wyatt

was appointed senior director at
Cushman & Wakefield of ‘Texas
Inc. He completed four of six
marathons as a member of a testic-
ular cancer running club. The
team has raised $14,000 for The
Lance Armstrong Foundation. He
lives in Dallas.

OO 1985 —©—>

Christopher H. Brooks
lives in Centreville, Va., where he
is the vice president of sales for
Merrill Corp. He is occupied with
financial printing, document filing,
translation services and investor
relations Web site hosting. He and
his wife, Lindsey, have two chil-
dren.

 

 

 

Samuel P. Dalton

is a partner with Vinson « Elkins
L.L.P. in Dallas, practicing com-
mercial litigation. He and his wife,
Carol, have three children, Sam Jr.,
6, Loring, 5. and Katie, 2.

John D. MixonJr.
‘s the director of information tech-
nology services for SCI Europe.
‘Together w ith his wife and his two
children, he resides in Paris.

Dr. John H. Moore

‘s the managing partner of
Columbia Women’s I lealthcare ,a
seven-doctor obstetrics and gyne-
cology group in Columbia, S.C.
He has two daughters, Virginia
Evin, 4 1/2, and Kate Alice, 18
months. In his spare time he reg-
ularly beats classmate Jackson
MacFarlane in golf.

Clarke H. Morledge

is a senior network engineer in the
information technology depart-
ment at Ihe College of William
and Mary in Williamsburg, Va.

Kenneth S. Nankin

formed Nankin & Verma PL.L.C.,
a three-attorney law firm based in
Washington that provides general
corporate and civil litigation ser-
vices in D.C., Virginia and
Maryland.

J. Robert Spatig Il

is interim director of undergradu-
ate admissions at Northeastern
University in Boston and lives in
Brookline with his partner, Johnny
Prugh, and their dog, Chessie.

< 1986 —°»

Robert K. Cresham
graduated from Fordham
University School of Law in 2000
and is an associate in the capital
markets group of Stroock &
Stroock & Lavan L.L.P in
Manhattan.

Danie! J). O'Connor Ill

iS a consultant for the Georgia
Republican Party. He lives in
Adlanta.

<O 1987 —©

William A. Garrett III

and his wife, Patience ’89, relocat-
ed to Leesburg, Va., where he
aecepted a job as senior vice presi-
dent in finance and CFO with
Gemini Air Cargo Inc. Gemini is
40 operator of wide-body freighter
aircraft throughout the world. She
'S-employed with Appoint-

ments.com, a Web retailer of gifts
and other merchandise.

Robert K. Merritt Il
accepted a position as director of
research at the Children’s Health-
care of Atlanta. ‘This position fol-
lows his 13 years at the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control.

OO 1988 —©°

James J. Buquet

became a board member of
Coastal Commerce Bank in 1999
and is now vice president of the
Louisiana Beer Industry League.
He lives in Houma, La.

John W. McCullough

retired from the private practice of
law to become vice president of
the associate general counsel for
Vesta Insurance Group Inc. in
Birmingham, Ala. Class agent
Hugh Lynch immediately hit on
him for an increased donation to
the Annual Fund.

Cregory S. Unger
is practicing law in New Orleans.

O..- 4 9 8B. ——_C>

M. Lucille Anderson

joined the McGlinchey Stafford
law office. She is working in the
firm’s Houston office in the area of
labor and employment law.

Laura Carty Bowers

left Wachovia Securities in late
1999 to start Laura Bowers
Marketing Communications, a
marketing and business communi-
cations consulting company, which
she operates from her home in
Charlotte, N.C..

S. David Burns

met with classmates over New
Year's in White Sulphur Springs.
Included in the mini-reunion were
Philip Isley °89, Bryant Spann °91
and his wife, Carol, Harley and
Lindsey Walsh °91, Courtney
Smith *93 and Hollins friends Julie
Ward Klein and Stephanie Powell.
Everyone had a great time catch-
ing up and meeting each other’s
children. He lives in Charles
‘Lown, W.Va.

Dr. Richard P. James Jr.

completed his dermatology resi-
dency last year and has become a
diplomat of the American Board of
Dermatology and a fellow of the
American Academy of Dermatol-
ogy. He serves in the U.S. Army
and is chief of dermatology at

 

Winn Army Hospital in Fort
Stewart, Ga. He _ resides in
Savannah with his wife, Cindy, and
his two daughters, Kaitly, 5, and
Meredith, 3.

Rev. Edward D. Ludwig
enjoys his new hobby, kayaking.
He lives in Salineville, Ohio.

Richard S. Redfoot

moved with his family to Cary,
N.C., where he works for a small
architectural firm. His wife, Leslie
Grein, and his children, Max and
Madison, are enjoying their new
home.

Rev. Mark A. Robertson
was promoted to staff chaplain of
the emergency room at Grady
Memorial Hospital in Adanta. ‘The
Robertsons purchased their first
home in June 2000, which has kept
them busy. ‘The fixer-upper,
including the renovation of the
kitchen and bathrooms, has
become their pride and joy.

E. Luckett Robinson Il
joined the law firm of Hand
Arendall L.L.C. The firm has 60
lawyers with offices in Mobile,
Foley and Birmingham, Ala.

Dr. Dana Anstine Setzer
enjoys practicing pediatrics in
Pennsylvania with her husband,
Dr. W. Scott Setzer. They live in
Camp Hill, Pa.

Robert David Wolf
enjoyed running the Chicago
marathon last October. He also
likes attending alumni functions in
Adclanta, where he lives.

O....- § 9 9.0 ——_CG>

James A. Fuller

accepted a temporary assignment
in Bergen County, N.J., where he
is managing the implementation of
a new advertising system at The
Record and establishing a northeast
regional office for his company,
Mactive Inc. His wife and class-
mate, Ann, is a part-time contractor
for Mactive and works from home.
‘The family live in Fort Lee, N.].,
until they return to their home in
Florida in August 2002.

J. Lee Crable Jr.

moved from Dallas to Austin,
where he is working for a start-up
company called SiteStuff as
alliance manager and director of
legal affairs.

W. Brett Mason

was selected to serve a two-year
term as a member of the board of
directors of Special Olympics
Louisiana. He practices law with
Breazeale, Sachse & Wilson in
Baton Rouge.

So... § 99 1..~—_-C >

Jonathan M. Bull

and his wife, Ashley, enjoy living in
Dallas, together with their son
Sam, 6, and their daughter,
Rosalie, 4.

Dr. L. Shane Crundy
finished his interventional radiology
fellowship at the University of
Florida. ‘logether with his wife, his
twins, Maggie and Bruddock, 3 1/2,
and 8-month-old Jimmy, Grundy
will move to ‘lampa this summer,
where he has accepted a new job.

Patricia Lopes Harris

is a reporter covering workplace
issues for the business desk of the
San Jose Mercury News, a daily
newspaper.

Susan L. Reil

lives in Connecticut, where she is
the assistant to the president and
CEO of Cannondale Corp., a man-
ufacturer of bicycles and motor
sports products.

E. Christian Roessler

lives in Durham, N.C., where he
develops plans to restore impaired
streams for the state’s Division of
Water Quality. He encourages
friends from W&L to visit if they
are in the area.

O._-. 1 9 9 2. —_<—>

M. Hill Goodspeed

took the most interesting airplane
ride of his life last summer, logging
a carrier-arrested landing and cata-
pult launch on board of the
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
USS Enterprise (CVN 65) operating
in the Gulf of Mexico. He serves as
historian at the National Museum
of Naval Aviation in Pensacola,
Fla.

James T. Elliott IV

lives in New York City and is
employed in technology invest-
ment banking at UBS Warburg.
He married Susan Stean in April,
who is nearing the completion
of her four-year residency at
Columbia University.

 

 

O_- 1993 —C>

Katharine J. Fraser

is reporting in Washington for
McGraw-Hill’s “Inside FE.R.C.,”
an energy policy newsletter.

Meredith T. Cronroos

and her kids moved to sunny San
Diego, where she has been pro-
moted by Sprint. Gronroos loves
San Diego as much as she loves
being on the same coast as
Michelle May 7°93, Lauren
Hartman "93 and Elaine Harris ’92.

J. Cameron Humphries
went through a lot of exciting
changes last year leading to a new
wife, new house and a new job. He
now serves as the manager of tech-
nology strategy at Neiman Marcus
Online in Dallas.

OO 1994 —_- ©»

Matthew C. Hansen
published a complete study edi-
tion of The Tempest in June 2000
and is working on a project as both
contributor and editor on the 16th-
century poet Fulke Careville for
The Sidney Journal. He is working
toward his Ph.D. at the University
of Nebraska.

Justin R. McNaull

hung up his badge and gun after six
years as a police officer in Arlington,
Va. He now serves as public affairs
manager for AAA Mid-Atlantic,
handling public relations and gov-
ernment affairs in the Washington
area. McNaull and his wife,
Rebecca, live in Annandale, Va.

Alegra M. O’Hare

was named marketing manager for
VF Corp. Italy, the world’s largest
apparel company with — sales
exceeding $5.5 billion. She lives in
Milan, but plans to buy a house in
the Italian countryside soon.

Krista A. Taurins

completed her M.Sc. at the London
School of Economics in European
political economy of transition. She
returned to Riga, Latvia, in
October, where she is a consultant
for the Welfare Ministry of Latvia
on a World Bank project designed
to reform health investment policy.

Leland J. Yee

lives in London. He visited the
U.S. to present a talk at the Eighth
Conference on Retroviruses and
Opportunistic Infections — in
Chicago.

O.- § 99 3 s—C>

Andrew K. Barrick

was promoted to general manager
of the Ramada Inn in ‘Towson, Md.
‘The Ramada Inn is managed by
Marshall Management, whose
president is Mike Marshall *86.

Evan R. McAvoy

received his master’s of interna-
tional business management from
the University of California
Graduate School of International
Relations and Pacific Studies in
San Diego.

O.._- 4 98 9. 6B ——__—C>

Andrew W. Bidwell

lives in Blacksburg, Va. He is still
in veterinary school but hopes to
be out and working soon.

Dr. Lester S. Borden Jr.
graduated from OQhio — State
University College of Medicine
last spring. He completed his first
year of residency in_ urologic
surgery at Wake Forest University
Baptist Medical Center in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Nova A. Clarke

moved back to the desert to take a
job as a ranger at the Needles
District of Canyonlands National
Park. She would be happy to give
tours to W&L alums.

Thomas A. Esposito Ir.

is playing in a_ band called
Hippocampus, which has been
together for two years and has
achieved recognition in the
Newark, Del. area. ‘The band has
finished a CD demo and is work-
ing on a new album. Esposito
works for MBNA, _ performing
portfolio analysis of the bank’s con-
sumer finance business.

Craig A. Fantuzzi

continues his career at Morgan
Stanley as a fixed income strategist
in New York.

P. MacNamara Lacy
published an article in the journal
Environmental Law on using the
Clean Water Act to control water
pollution from livestock grazing on
public lands. He lives in Portland,
Ore.

Kristen Cavros Marriott
works for ECC Language Institute
in Shinjuku, ‘Tokyo, teaching
English classes for Japanese com-
panies.

 

Craig C. Sears

is pleased about the way his swim-
ming pool company is developing
in Atlanta. Sears recruits lifeguards
from all around the world, which
enriches his experience even
more.

Jennifer Fern Stec

and her husband, Jim, relocated to
Lexington, S.C. She continues to
work for Arthur Andersen as a
regional resource manager and
looks forward to seeing everyone at
the class reunion in May.

Nicholas Waddy

finished his Ph.D. in history from
the University of Rochester in
May.

Martha A. Warthen
finished her second year of law
school at University of Virginia.

“Oa. (1: 9 97 ~—G>

John N. Bator

became president of the Northern
New Jersey Chapter of the Alumni
Association and looks forward to
some fun events in New Jersey
and New York.

M. Brooks Fischer

ran the 2000 Chicago marathon
along with ‘lom L. Bradbury °96,
Sanford Hooper °97, ’03L and
Christopher L. Casazza "97. He
lives in Atlanta.

Elizabeth A. Fritze

joined the international depart-
ment of Fulbright & Jaworski
L.L.P. in Washington. She was
admitted to practice law in Virginia
last year.

C. Lanier Healy

lives with Doug Hartog ’98 and
Patrick Madden °97 in Atlanta,
where he is working in commercial
real estate with Carter &
Associates-ONCOR. He is also
coaching little league baseball in
Buckhead, where ‘Thad Ellis 82,
Spencer Patten °92, Robert
Weston °99 and Geoffrey Gober
99 are coaching as well.

Shannon E. Jamieson

accepted a new position at
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. as the
manager of e-Procurement sup-
plier adoption in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Theresa M. Jones

graduated from the Medical
College of Virginia at Virginia
Commonwealth University in

May and has entered a family prac-
tice residency program.

Ashley A. La Forge

finished her second year of Peace
Corps Service in ‘lanzania, East
Africa. She looks forward to seeing
the new sorority houses when she
returns to the U.S. in 2002.

Lisa Cornelius Lacy

moved to Portland, Ore., last sum-
mer, where she is working at
Milwaukie High School, teaching
English, journalism and publica-
tions (newspaper and yearbook)
classes.

David M. Lamoureux

and Michelle °97 moved to
Georgia, where they bought a
horse farm just outside Atlanta. He
was promoted to manager at
Accenture, and when he is not
traveling the couple spend time
horseback riding and playing with
their basset hound, Mabel.

Holly M. Layman

graduated from medical school this
June and started her residency at
Wellington Regional Medical
Center in West Palm Beach, Fla.

Robert K. McKinnon
teaches art at The German
American School in Portland, Ore.
He spent the summer in Italy with
Elizabeth Weaver “95, is going to
Playa del Carmen, Mexico, for
winter break and has ‘lanzania on
the slate for next July. McKinnon
is getting on with his M.A. degree
in special education and continues
to make furniture out of steel.

Bindi T. Patel

is working towards her master’s
of environmental management,
resource economics and policy at
Duke University and plans to
graduate in May 2002.

Heather P. Schweninger
moved to Pittsburgh to hunt for a
job.

T. Jason Shaffer

is working on his Ph.D. in English
at Yale. He spent last summer
researching at the Beinecke
Library for his research fellowship
and hopes to have his dissertation
finished by the spring of 2002.

T. Gaillard Uhihorn V

joined the law firm of Glankler
Brown P.L.L.C., concentrating his
work in the areas of transactions

 

M> Ac. Gash

 

 

and commercial real estate in

Memphis, [enn.

D> 1998 —“°»
Claudia J. Arcuri
was promoted tro category execu-
tion manager at Nordstrom and
ow travels the coastline through-

n | line throug
out the Northeast. She keeps in
touch with classmate Kelsay

Berland who is thriving in the
Southwest. When traveling togeth-
er, they are known to jump out of
planes just for fun. Arcuri lives in
Glen head, N.Y.

David J. Coon

finished his first year at Baylor
College of Dentistry. His wife,
Jennifer 98, teaches second grade
at University Park Elementary
School.

R. L. Andrew Curry
moved from New York City to
London.

Kathryn C. Kitchens

lives in New Orleans, where she is
working on a master’s in public
health and environmental sci-
ences.

Benjamin C. Lacy

is completing law school at
Southern Methodist University.
Lacy’s father-in-law is Bob Wein 68
and his brothers-in-law are Scott
Wein "98 and Robert Wein °94.

Victoria Pavlova
was promoted to associate in the
global energy and project finance
investment banking group in
Credit Suisse First Boston. She
lives in New York City.

Alison C. Rohas

moved to Aclanta, where she is liv-
ing with classmate Amy Kirouac.
She is a senior associate with
PricewaterhouseCoopers and con-
tinuously travels for business.
Non-business related travel high-
lights this past year included Paris,
London, the Grand Canyon,
Puerto Rico and Frankfurt.

D. Bradford Simpson

lives in Sanford, N.C., where he is
the president of the Simpson
Construction ¢ 0.

Jason P. Sorens

‘sin his third year at Yale
‘Niversity, where he is working on
his Ph.D. in political science. He

teaches undergraduate sections

and is Working on his dissertation.

His wife, Mary °98, is an adminis-
trative assistant.

Lauren L. Willson

moved to the Washington area to
pursue her position as legislative
assistant for U.S. Sen. Richard
Lugar of Indiana.

Lindsay A. Wood

is a dolphin trainer at the Dolphin
Research Center in Grassy Key,
Fla.

OO 1999—°>

Charles W. Allen

earned his master’s degree in pub-
lic health from the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, concen-
trating in health care organization
and policy. He was also awarded a
health policy fellowship with the
Health Resource and Service
Administration in Washington.

Catherine Ruth Felton

lives in Atlanta with classmates
Frances N. Gilbert, Mary C.
McFall and Elizabeth O. Perry.
Felton is working in the marketing
department of a law firm.

Frances N. Cilbert

is having a great time in Atlanta liv-
ing with her classmates Mary
McFall, Catherine Ruth Felton
and Beth Perry. She works for
Sun Trust Banks Inc.

Malcolm E. Harris Jr.
taught English to business repre-
sentatives in Madrid, Spain, until
he quit in May to travel around
Europe.

Mary R. Hemmer

resides in New York City and is
pursuing a master’s of divinity at
General ‘Theological Seminary.
She is a postulant in the Diocese of
Georgia, working towards ordina-
tion into the Episcopal priesthood.

Amy K. Stowell

is a senior research analyst for
PricewaterhouseCoopers in
Washington. She purchased her
first home, a condominium in
Alexandria, Va.

Campbell L. Tuskey

was sent with her job to Brussels,
Belgium, where she will be staying
for the next year.

J. Andrew Wendelken
finished his second year of dental
school at the University of
Oklahoma College of Dentistry.

 

M. Bryan Wheeler
will be entering the United States
Army. He lives in Burke, Va.

O— 2000—-°

Shannon E. Bell

is the West Virginia rural health
education partnerships site coordi-
nator for the Cabin Creek Health
Consortium, which covers the rural
areas of Kanawba county.

Carolyn E. Hudson

now spells her name Cate, lives in
Los Angeles and travels the West
Coast as a fund-raising consultant.

David A. Shepard

teaches high school history and
coaches at Darlington School in
Rome, Ga.

A. Stevens Miles Jr. "51 to Noel
Mckissick on June 24, 2000. ‘The
couple live in Greenville, S.C., and
have a winter domicile in Florida.
Miles is active in thoroughbred
racing and breeding.

Robert S. Criffith 11 '72 to Patti
Siehien on Sept. 30, 2000, on board
the riverboat Henrietta II on Cape
Fear River in Wilmington, Del.
Griffith left Sampson County,
N.C., and is now living and prac-
ticing law on the coast. His daugh-
ter is about to graduate from high
school, but will not, as planned by
her father, become a member of
W&Ls class of 2005. Griffith is
quite disappointed, as she was the
main reason he supported coedu-
cation at W&L in the first place.

James B. Hornor 74 to Eileen
Boyd on Aug. 5, 2000. His oldest
daughter, Annie, earned her mas-
ter’s degree in elementary educa-
tion from the University of South
Carolina. She teaches at
Greenbriar Episcopal School in
Lewisburg, W.Va., where her
father assumed the position of
headmaster, as of July 1, 2000.

Rev. Amos A. Workman '74 to
Cecile Boren James on Nov. 18,
2000, in Greenville, S.C. They live
in Greenville, S.C.

Dr. Cary W. Seldomridge 76 to
Christina B. Newkirk on Dec. 3,
1999, in Evergreen, Colo. The
couple live in Lancaster County,
Pa., with their sons, ‘Tyler, 12, and
Benjamin, 10, who are coached in
soccer by ‘lad Renner °85 and in
lacrosse by Mark Lukes °84 and

Courtney Mauzy *86. He has a spe-
cial interest in facial reconstructive
surgery and bone grafting and is a
department chair at Lancaster
General Hospital. “The Seldom-
ridges are looking forward to see-
ing many friends at the 25th
reunion in May.

H. Powell Starks '83 to Fiona
Harkess Blocker 90 on Aug. 26,
2000, in Hot Springs, Va. ‘They live
in Louisville, Ky.

Richard E. McCann Jr. '85 to
BethAnne Muskey on Oct. 22,
1999, in Lake ‘Iahoe, Nev. ‘They
live in Jacksonville, Fla.

Nancy Whalen ‘89 to Allen
Kichler on Sept. 24, 2000. ‘The
couple live in Waterford, Va. She
is the director of AOL’ inter-
active marketing department for
shop@aol’s account services team.

Cc. King Laughlin Il '90 to
Charlene Duryea on Dec. 16,
2000, in Santa Fe, N.M. ‘The cou-
ple live in Alexandria, Va.

Elizabeth Criffin ‘9! to
Christopher Robertson on Dec. 18,
1999, in Richmond. Griffin is an
administrative law attorney for the
U.S. Army.

Erik E. Bertelsen "92 to Chiara
Wine on Nov. 11, 2000, in Palo
Alto, Ca. They live in San
Francisco.

Seamane Flanagan ‘92 to
Robert Grower on June 3, 2000, in
Allamuchy, N.J. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Caroline ‘ISuji, ‘Thomas Hagigh
and Rusty Fairfield. ‘The couple
live in Somerville, Mass.

H. Eugene Pride "92 to Jennifer
R. Poole on June 10, 2000, on
Nantucket Island where they met.
‘The Rev. Will Jones °92 performed
the ceremony. Classmates Will
‘Thomas, Jay McKnight, Peyton
Chapman, Jason Robertson and
Scott Harkins served as grooms-
men. Other classmates in atten-
dance were Scott Swygert, ‘lom
Grow, Chris Jackson, Chris
Sullivan, Ward Maedgen, Grant
Willard, Bill LaMotte and
Winthrop Allen. ‘The couple live in
Denver.

Alison Bales "93 to Lawrence
“Tiger” H. Martin III on Aug. 5,
2000, in Lee Chapel. Classmate
Patricia Pond Miller and cousin
Mary Stapleton Davy °96 were

 

W a

 

bridesmaids. ‘The couple live in
Lexington while she finishes law
school at W&L.

Marjorie King "93 to Chancellor
M. Reynolds on Nov. 11, 2000.
Members of the wedding party
included Joanne E. Lee °93,
Carrie N. Eubanks °93, Helen
Steward Keller "93 and Mary
Lynn King 96. Also in attendance
were Kim Murtha Harrar °93, ‘Tara
A. Maitra °93 and Patricia
Perdigon Moser °93. ‘The couple
live in Park Hills, Ky., where he is
a pilot for ComAir, and she is job
searching.

Cregory L. Williams "93 to
Andrea Dunlevy on Nov. 4, 2000.
‘The couple live in San Francisco,
where they both work for invest-
ment banks.

Jennifer J. Peszka "94 to David
Mastin on June 27, 2000. She
teaches psychology at Hendrix
College, and he teaches psycholo-
gy at the University of Arkansas in
Little Rock.

Frederick W. Wood '94 to
Jennifer Bohannon on March 18,
2000, in Wimberly, ‘Texas. ‘They
live in Houston.

Cc. Alan Hamrick '95 to Jamie
Mataldi on Aug. 19, 2000, in San
Diego, where the couple live.
Hamrick is an associate with
PricewaterhouseCoopers L.L.P. in
the tax and legal services depart-
ment.

Stephanie Boden '96 to Jayson
Robert Wenstrup on Sept. 16,
2000, in Cape May, N.J. Members
of the wedding party were
Courtney Wetzel Worrell "96, Julie
Ann Olejniczak 96 and Darren
Braccia “92. ‘The couple live in
Somerville, Mass.

Thomas B. Kernan V 96 to April
King on Aug. 28, 1999. ‘The couple
live in Maplewood, Mo.

Owen Smith "96 to Marjorie
Ford '97 on Aug. 26, 2000. Dana
Letson 96 and Bindi Patel °97
served as bridesmaids, while nine
of Smith’s KA pledge brothers
were groomsmen. She is enrolled
in graduate school at University of
Virginia.

Patrick J. Breen '97 to Jennifer
Miller "97 on Sept. 23, 2000, in
Harrisburg, Pa. Coye Nokes 97
served as the maid of honor and
Sean Sayer "96 as the best man.

Also in attendance were ‘lodd
Fontaine 96, Brendan Combes
"99, Brooke Glenn °97, ‘Tracy
Marshall "97 and Robert Mullin
97. The couple live in Chicago.

Melissa Cibson '97 to Jagger J.
W. Harvey '98 on July 1, 2000, in
‘Twin Falls, Idaho.

Anna O'Connor '97 to Chris
Norris on April 4, 2000, in Maroma,
Mexico. ‘The couple live in
McLean, Va.

Christie Ann Caloudas '98 to
George James Vlahakos on June 3,
2000. ‘The couple reside in Austin,
‘lexas.

Leyla P. Custer "98 to Crady
Walter Coker "99 on Nov. 11,
2000, in Washington. Millie
Heatwole "98 was maid of honor
and Shelli Henderson "98 was a
bridesmaid. ‘The couple reside in
Arlington, Va. She works as a
human resources administrator for
Parabon Computation Inc., while
he is a real estate analyst for Walker
and Dunlop.

Mr. and Mrs. Desmond V. Tobias
"83, a son, Desmond V. ‘Tobias III,
on March 10, 2000. He is a partner
in the law firm of Windom &
‘Tobias L.L.C. in Mobile, Ala,
where he focuses on personal
injury litigation.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Leighton
Stradtman ‘84, a son, Cullen
McCormac, on Feb. 8. He joins a
brother, George Leighton Jr., 2 1/2.
‘The family live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Cobb Jr.
"85, a son, James ‘Tillman, on Feb.
20. They live in Denver.

Dr. and Mrs. Christopher W.
Ives '85, a son, Jackson Daniel, on
Feb. 19. He joins brothers
Christopher, 9, and Graham, 6, and
a sister, MaryClair, 3. Ives in his
seventh year of a busy gastroen-
terology practice in Fairhope, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Maddox
Riley '85, a daughter, Marion, on
Dec. 27, 2000. ‘They live in
Baltimore.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Frederick
Bentley Ill "86, a daughter,
Annemarie Lee, on April 19, 2000.
She joins her brothers, Matthew

 

and Joseph. ‘The family live in
Seattle.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel F. DuPre
"86, a daughter, Margaret Anna, on
April 14, 2000. She joins a sister,
Grace, 2 1/2. ‘The family live in
Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Henschel
'86, a son, Daniel Simmington, on
July 20, 2000. He joins a sister,
Caroline. Henschel was promoted
to senior director at Cushman and
Wakefield Inc., a commercial real
estate firm headquartered in New
York. Both parents are looking for-
ward to Reunion Weekend.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher P.
Jakubek ‘86, a son, Brian
Christopher, on Dec. 21, 2000. He
joins sister, Allison, 4, and brother,
‘Timothy, 2. ‘The family reside in
Ellicott City, Md. Jakubek is a
regional sales manager for Sara Lee.

Dr. and Mrs. Lester S. Johnson
"86, a son, Benjamin Skolfield, on
Sept. 25, 2000. He joins a sister,
Katherine, 2. ‘The family reside in
Virginia Beach. Johnson and _ his
wife, Eveleen, have accepted posi-
tions with the Medical Center of
Radiologists and are excited to be
back in Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. Cerald Daniel
Shepherd ‘86, a son, George
Harrington, on April 10, 2000. He
joins brother, Henry Charles. ‘The
family live in Ridgewood, N.]J.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Vidunas
"86, a daughter, Catherine
“Blake,” on Jan. 10. ‘The family
reside in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Deep Jr.
"87, a daughter, Sophia Samara, on
April 22, 2000. ‘They live in
Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Hurley
1 '87, a daughter, Martha Gaven,
on July 10, 2000. She joins siblings,
Charlotte and Richard IV. ‘The
family live in Canford, N.].

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce OD.
Partington ‘87, a son, Gorham
Douglas, on Oct. 30, 2000. ‘They
live in Pensacola, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. David D. Seifert
"87, a son, Nicholas Sala, on Oct.
18, 2000. The family reside in
Owings Mills, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Hildebrandt
Surgner Jr. '87, a son, George

‘Lucker, on Nov. 6, 2000. He joins
brother Reeves, 4, and sisters
Walker, 8, and Kate, 2. ‘The family
live in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Neal M. De Bonte
"88, a daughter, Olivia Frances, on
July 29, 2000. ‘The family live in
Chicago, where Neal is a director
for Bank One and is the manager
of intermediate municipal bond
trading for the capital markets
group.

Mr. and Mrs. R. Daniel Fales'88,
a son, Charles Max, on March 23,
2000. ‘The family live in
Westchester, Ohio.

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew T.
Harrington ‘88, a son, Benjamin
Gabriel, on Nov. 14, 2000. The
family reside in Harare,
Zimbabwe, where he serves as a
political officer at the U.S.
Embassy. His father, ‘Iracy
Harrington °65, and his wife, Judy,
are delighted about their first
grandchild.

Mr. and Mrs. Bradley B. Root
"88, a son, Bradley James, on Jan.
25. ‘The family live in Pittsburgh.

Ellen Sigler Featherstone ‘89
and her husband, James, a son,
James Wesley, on Jan. 3. The fam-
ily live in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Scott B. Corry '89,
a daughter, Grace Elizabeth, on
Nov. 11, 2000. The family live in
Willington, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Meadows
"89, a daughter, Kate Ferris, on
Nov. 13, 2000. He works for
WebMD Corp. as the vice presi-
dent of sales, medical manager
network services in ‘lampa, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Weston J.
Newton '89, a daughter, Reedy, on
Dec. 4, 2000. They live in Hilton
Head Island, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart H. Sheldon
'89, a son, Andrew James “Drew,”
on Jan. 30. He joins brothers Will,
3, and Jack, 1. Sheldon was named
senior brand alignment manager
for Mello Yello at ‘The Coca-Cola
Co. The family live in Adianta.

Maryanne Loftin White '89 and
her husband, Rob, a son, Hadley
Wynne, on Oct. 21, 2000. He joins
a brother, Harrison, 6, and a sister,
Meta Kate, 3. The family live in a
new home in Winston-Salem,
NC,

 

 

Washington

and fee MO AvLumMNt M2 °@ 7A

 

—

 

mr. and Mrs. Cc. Wesley Boyd
'9O, a daughter, Margaret Sue, on
Dec. 15, 2000. She joins a brother,
Will, 2. The family live in Dallas.

Kathryn H. Dillon ‘90 and her
husband, Jay, a son, Charles
Rovall, on Nov. 15, 2000. ‘The fam-

ily reside in \clanta.

mr. and Mrs. Stewart C. Flippen
'90, a son, ¢ ‘hristopher Stewart, on
March 24, 2000. He servers as
senior account executive with
Trigon Bluecross Blue Shield in

Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher M.
Ciblin '90, a daughter, Mary Ives,
on Jan. 21. The family live in
Alexandria, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Dale P. Haines '90,
a son, Sean Philip, on Aug. 26,
2000. They live in Arlington, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Hunt Niedring-
haus "90, a son, ‘Thomas, in Oct.
2000. ‘The family live in St. Louis.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Emmette
Pilgreen lV "90, a daughter, Delia
Kate Kim Jae-bin, on March 2,
2000, in Ulsank, Korea. Delia
joined her family forever on July
25. The family reside in Roanoke.

Katherine C. Stroh '90 and her
husband, Dean E. Tallman, a
daughter, Gabrielle ‘Taylore, on
Jan. 9. ‘The family live in
Lexington.

Mr. and Mrs. Brian S. Tanis '90,
a son, John Leland, on Oct. 17,
2000. ‘The family reside in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Touchton Jr.
90, a son, John Winston, on Jan. 4.
‘The baby’s grandfather is J. Thomas
‘Touchton Sr. °60. Parents and grand-
parents live in ‘lampa, Fla., where
both dad and granddad are partners
in the Witt-'Touchton Co.

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Vittori’90, a
son, Michael Joseph, on April 17,
2000. The family reside in
Springfield, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Duke A. Dillard '9I,
a son, Hayden Ashley, on Sept. 19,
2000, in Aktay, Kazakstan.

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Farace’9I,
a4 son, Wyatt, on Feb. 25, 2000.
While Farace is now completely
bald, his son has lots of hair. Mike
I ardo °91 is Wyatt’s godfather. The
family live in Baltimore.

Stephen B. French ‘SI and
Kimberly Dickinson French '94,
a daughter, Virginia Bradley, on
June 20, 2000. He practices law
with Bush, Ross, Gardner, Warren
& Rudy in ‘lampa. She works from
home as a free-lance copywriter.

William D. Cottwals "91 and his
wife, Paige C. '91, a son, Van
Alston, on Nov. 7, 2000. He joins a
sister, Addison, 3. ‘The family live
in Billings, Mont.

Anne Armentrout Rackley ‘9!
and her husband, Cene, a son,
Brooks Eugene, on June 20, 2000.
He joins brother, Davis, and is the
grandson of Walter Scott Armen-
trout “66L. ‘The family live in
Atlanta.

Janelle Zarecor Ranieri '91 and
her husband, John, a daughter,
Laura Lucia, on March 28, 2000.
‘The family reside in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank B. Turner Jr.
"91, a daughter, Ivy Daniel, on Oct.
27, 2000. ‘The family live in
Covington, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Blair Allen Jr.
"92, a son, ‘Thomas, on Jan. 3. ‘The
family reside in Little Rock, Ark.

Susan Watkins Dulin "92 and
her husband, John, a daughter,
Ellen Elizabeth, on Nov. 15, 2000.
She joins a brother, Philip, 3. ‘The
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

Palmer L. Skoglund Ill "92, and
his wife, Felicia "94, a daughter,
Julianna Ashlyn, on Feb. 8. ‘The
family live in Charleston.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Kirk Ogden Jr.
"93, a daughter, Jessica Raquel, on
Jan. 11. The couple serve with the
South America Mission in San
Ignacio, Bolivia.

Jennifer Carr Rabaey "93 and
her husband, John, a son, John
Philip, on May 19, 2000. ‘The fam-
ily live in Dearborn, Mich.

Robin Bryant Dawson '94 and
her husband, Will, a daughter,
Josephine Regan, on Oct. 4, 2000
in Milan, Italy.

Todd D. Ezrine’94 and Kimberly
Herring Ezrine’95, a son, ‘lucker,
on Nov. 23, 2000. The family
moved to Chicago in May, follow-
ing their graduation from the
University of Michigan Education
and Business schools. In Chicago,

 

he will be working for Bain & Co.,
while she will be busy with educa-
tional consulting.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryant Pless
'94, a daughter, Isabel Ellen, on
May 10, 2000. Bryant has taught
social studies at Brown River
Middle School for two years,
where he is also the girls’ basket-
ball coach. His wife, ‘Tamara, is a
part-time school counselor. ‘The
couple just bought a new house in
Essex Junction, Vt.

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Rowe '87, a
son, John “Jack” Barbour, on Oct.
19, 2000. Grandfather A. Prescott
Rowe °60 is mighty proud. Rowe
has been with the Bank of America
in Richmond for over three years
as a vice president and small busi-
ness loan underwriter.

Joseph L. Lanier Sr. '27,
former chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of West
Point-Pepperell Inc., died Nov. 28,
2000 in Lanett, Ala. A member of
Phi Delta ‘Theta social fraternity
and Omicron Delta Kappa, he was
a member of the basketball team
and The Ring-tum Phi staff. He was
involved in the textile business
until his retirement in 1971. He
served as a trustee of W&L.

Harry H. Huffman ‘29,
retired principal from the
Botetourt County School System
in Virginia, died Jan. 23.

John D. Phillips 28,

a retired attorney with the law firm
of Phillips, Gardill, Kaiser and
Altmeyer in Wheeling, W.Va., died
Nov. 30, 2000. A member of Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity, he did
graduate work at Oxford Univer-
sity as a Rhodes Scholar. He served
in the U.S. Marine Corps during
World War II.

John A. Culley '33,

retired from Dixon Publishing Co.
in Dixon, Ill., died Nov. 1, 2000. A
member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity and Sigma Delta Chi, he
began working in the advertising
department of the Chicago Evening
American after graduation. He
earned a Bronze Star in the U.S.
Navy during World War II and
later worked for Kable Printing Co.
in Mount Morris, IIL, before his
association with Dixon.

Emil L. Stevens '33,

a former division manager of real
estate for Aclantic Richfield Co. in
Philadelphia, died Dec. 26, 2000.
A member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, he served in the
U.S. Army Air Force during World
War II. During his career, he man-
aged real estate for the Buffalo
Savings Bank and_ Prudential
Insurance Co. and worked in both
Charlotte, N.C., and Philadelphia.

Louis P. Turpin ‘33,

a former high school teacher and
director of Southside Electric Co-
op, died Feb. 25 in Huddleston,
Va. He was a teacher at Montvale,
Huddleston and Stewartsville (Va.)
high schools and was principal of
Boydton High School — in
Mecklenburg County (Va.). He
served in the U.S. Navy during
World War II, after which he was
director of the Co-op for 25 years.

Dr. Victor F. Marshall '34,
professor emeritus of surgery at
Cornell Medical School in New
York, died Jan. 5. He was a mem-
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha social frater-
nity. In 1975, he received the
Ramon Guiteras Medal from the
American Urological Association
and, in 1987, the Maurice R.
Greenberg Distinguished Service
Award, New York-Cornell’s high-
est honor.

Thomas W. Mehler '35,
former owner of ‘Thomas Mehler
Real Estate in Waynesboro, Va.,
died June 27, 2000. A member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social frater-
nity, he owned and flew his own
airplanes before he served in the
U.S. Army Air Corps during World
War IL.

Cilbert E. Pence Jr. '35,

a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity, died Dec. 30,
2000.

Charles J. Mower '36,

a retired consultant for Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Co., died Oct.
22, 2000. He was a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa, the football
team, the heavyweight boxing
team, Kappa Alpha Order and was
president of ‘Iroubadours. Mower
served as a first lieutenant in the
U.S. Army during World War II,
involved with military intelligence
in Africa and Italy.

James O. Watts Jr. '36, "38L,
former president of Common-
wealth Natural Gas Corp., died

 

 

Wash

rnugton

and Cee Pa AvcumnNi Mine a

 

March 1 in Richmond. A member
of Phi Delta Phi, the Cotillion
Club and Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity and the football,
basketball, swimming and golf
teams. He served in the U.S. Navy
during World War II. As a lawyer in
Lynchburg, he and a friend won
approval to pipe natural gas from
the Gulf Coast to Virginia in 1950,
cutting in half the price of gas in
Richmond. He served as president
of Commonwealth Natural Gas in
1951, but, preferring to live in
Lynchburg, gave up the position to
become vice president and general
counsel.

The Hon. James S. Moody '37,
a former circuit judge in Plant City,
I la., died Jan. 10. He served in the
Army Counter Intelligence Corps,
was a member of the Florida State
Legislature and served as a judge.

John S. Petot Jr. '38,
president of John S. Petot Jr. PS.C.
in Pikeville, Ky., died in November
2000. A member of Alpha ‘Tau
Omega social fraternity, he served
overseas during World War II as a
fighter pilot in both the Royal Air
Force and the U.S. Army Air Force.
He was awarded the Distinguished
Flying Cross, Air Medal-Five Oak
Leaf Clusters, Bronze Star, Army
Commendation Ribbon, British
D.EC., Star of RAK Canadian
Distinguished Service Medal and
Croix-de-Guerre with a star. Over
the course of his career, he taught
several classes in accounting at
Pikeville College.

The Rev. Howard M.
Hickey ‘39,

former rector of St. ‘Thaddeus’
Church in Aiken, S.C., died Oct. 21,
2000. A member of Phi Delta
‘Theta social fraternity, he graduat-
ed from the Virginia ‘Theological
Seminary and was ordained in the
Diocese of Western North Carolina.

Douglas B. Remmers ‘39,

a retired FBI agent and lawyer, died
Jan. 7 in St. Louis. Remmers was a
member of Sigma Chi social frater-
nity while at W&L. He earned a law
degree from the University of
Michigan, and after serving with the
FBI from 1942-1046, he became
partners with his father in the law
firm of Remmers & Remmers. In
1956, he was elected to the Board of
Governors of the Auto Club of
Missouri and later was hired as sec-
retary and lobbyist for the Auto
Club. In that capacity, he spearhead-
ed campaigns to prevent toll roads,

erect larger billboards and permit
oversized trucks. After retirement
from the Auto Club in 1987, he
became legal counsel for the
Missouri Property and Casualty
Insurance Guaranty Association
until his death.

Jay W. Sorge '39,

a retired senior partner with the
law firm of Hill, Lewis, Adams,
Goodrich and ‘Taft in Detroit, died
Nov. 8, 2000. A member of Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity, he
served as a lieutenant in the U.S.
Coast Guard during World War II
before beginning his law career.

Dr. C. Watson James II1'40,
a retired physician and professor of
internal medicine at the Medical
College of Virginia, died Jan. 15. A
member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity and Phi Beta
Kappa, he was involved in the
University Glee Club, ‘Tau Kappa
lota and Pi Alpha Nu.

Henry C. Libby Jr. '40,

a retired management consultant
for Donnahue Groover and
Associates, died Feb. 23 in Riviera
Beach, Fla. A member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity and the
Southern Collegian staff, he served in
the U.S. Navy during World War II.

William M. Read '40,

retired senior vice president of
employee relations at the Atlantic
Richfield Co. in Philadelphia, died
Nov. 25, 2000. A magna cum laude
graduate, he was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta
Kappa. Additionally, he was a dorm
counselor, a member of the
Freshman Assimilation Commit-
tee, debate team, University Glee
Club, Phi Eta Sigma and Kappa
Sigma social fraternity.

Capt. Lee Spaulding '40,

a retired Navy captain, died Dec.
17, 2000, in Fairfax, Va. A member
of Kappa Sigma social fraternity at
W&L, he served in the U.S. Navy
during World War II, earning a
Silver Star, before employment
with Sears and Sherwin-Williams.
He was recalled to active duty in
1952 during the Korean War and
remained with the Navy until his
retirement in 1967. He then joined
General Services Administration in
Washington, devoting much of his
work to naval reserve training
operations.

Dr. Latimer C. Young '40,
a retired pediatrician in Baltimore,

 

died Jan. 11. A member of Kappa
Alpha Order and the lacrosse team,
he served in the U.S. Army
Medical Corps in Japan during
World War II before beginning his
private practice. He also worked as
the physician for Baltimore’s
Friends School.

Robert C. Peery ‘4I,

retired managing partner for the
accounting firm of A.M. Pullen
and Co., died Jan. 3 in Richmond.
He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, Pi Alpha
Nu and Phi Eta Sigma. He served
as an officer in the U.S. Navy dur-
ing World War II before beginning
his career in accounting.

Benton M. Wakefield ‘41,

a retired banking executive and
consultant, died Jan. 2 in New
Orleans. A summa cum laude and
Phi Beta Kappa graduate, he was a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
Beta Gamma Sigma, Phi Eta
Sigma, ‘lau Kappa lota, the Ca/x
staff, Cotillion Club, president of
the University publications board,
Graham Lee-Washington Literary
Society, Fancy Dress committee
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity. He served in the U.S.
Navy during World War II. He was
chairman and chief executive offi-
cer of First National Bank of
Jefferson and later First Financial
Bank of New Orleans.

James S. Hill '42,

former owner of the George W.
Hill Seed Co. in Covington and
Florence, Ky., died Dec. 17, 2000.
A member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Social Fraternity and ‘lau Kappa
lota, he served in the U.S. Army
Air Corps during World War IL.

Frederick H. Pitzer '42,
retired from Aetna Life and
Casualty Co., died Jan. 2 in
Pinehurst, N.C. A member of Alpha
‘Tau Omega social fraternity, he was
also on the baseball and swimming
teams. He served in the U.S. Army
during World War II before begin-
ning his career with Aetna in
1946. Pitzer’s newsletter, “College
Friendships,” was legendary among
class communications.

C. Louis Robinson '42,

a retired building and supply
owner, died Nov. 5, 2000, in
Durham, N.C. A member of the
University Glee Club and Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity, he
served in the U.S. Marine Air
Corps during World War II, earn-

ing the Distinguished Flying
Cross, Air Medal (one silver star),
Navy Unit Citation and Presiden-
tial Unit Citation.

Nelson C. Steenland '42,
formerly stationed at Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institute and
involved in the development of
sonar, died Dec. 3, 2000 in
Houston. A Phi Beta Kappa gradu-
ate, he was a member of Phi Eta
Sigma and the University Glee
Club. During World War II, he
served as bureau of ships field
engineer for the U.S. Navy, work-
ing on magnetic methods and
underwater sound techniques to
enable ships to avoid detection by
submarines.

Robert C. Walker '42,

former mayor of the City of
Williamsburg, Va., died Jan. 1. He
served 13 years on_ the
Williamsburg Planning Commis-
sion and 16 years on the City
Council, eight as mayor. He also
served as president of United
Virginia Bank-Williamsburg.

Dr. James W. Priest '43,

a general practitioner in Dayton,
Ohio, for 45 years, died Nov. 22,
2000. A member of the swimming
and diving team and Phi Delta
‘Theta social fraternity, he served in
the U.S. Navy as a pilot and
instructor during World War II. He
served as president of the W&L
Alumni Board from 1967 to 1968.

James W. Wheater '43,

a teacher in New Jersey high
schools for 30 years, died Dec. 15,
2000, in Deltona, Fla. A member
of the football team and Sigma Nu
fraternity, he served three years in
the U.S. Marine Corps during
World War II.

John H. Cheatham Jr. '46,
former vice president of sales for
Dundee Mills Inc. in Griffin, Ga., died
Dec. 2, 2000. A member of Delta Tau
Delta social fraternity, he served three
years in the Quartermaster Corps dur-
ing World War IL.

William J. Hannafin '47,
retired from D.J. Hannafin Inc.
Plumbing and Heating Contrac-
tors in West Hartford, Conn., died
Nov. 14, 2000. A member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, he
served in the U.S. Army during
World War II and was awarded
both the Purple Heart and the
Bronze Star.

 

Washington

aeu d

 

Cee Wa Avcumnit MAGA

 

_—

 

Kimber Littlepage
white ‘47, ‘54L, |
qa lawyer iD Newport News, Va.
died March 15. He was first in his
law class at W&L, where he was
on Law Review and received the
John W. Davis Award. He served
inthe U.S. Navy from 1944 to 1947
and again from 1950 to 1952.
White opened his own law firm
and served as a substitute judge in
the General District Court for the
City of Newport News.

Wilson B. Armistead 48,

a retired salesman in Nashville,
Tenn., died Jan. 15. A member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity, he
taught combat intelligence for the
U.S. Army during World War IL.
He worked as a salesman in
Nashville for Marshall and Bruce,
Tidman’s Wholesale _ Florist,
Thompson’s Wholesale Florist and
AAA, as well as The St. Paul
Retirement Community.

John E. Miller Jr. '48,

retired president and chief execu-
tive officer of Arkansas Cement
Corp., died Feb. 8 in Little Rock,
Ark. He was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity,
Sigma Society and Pi Alpha Nu. He
served in the U.S. Air Force during
World War I as a pilot in the air
transport command and_ began
working for Lion Oil Co. before
joining Arkansas Cement Corp.

E. Page Preston '48L,

a retired lawyer in Norfolk, died
Feb. 16 in Virginia Beach. He
served as a navigator in the U.S.
Army Air Force during World War
Il. He practiced law in Norfolk
until his retirement.

Clark W. Toole Jr. '48L,

an attorney for the Jacksonville,
Fla., firm of Toole, Bubb and
Beale P.A., died Dec. 13, 2000. He
served in the U.S. Marine Corps
during World War II before
becoming a member of Phi Delta
Phi and the Law Review.

R. Harold Baker '49,

reured from Baker Produce Corp.
and C.D. Burroughs Printing Co.,
died March 1 in Virginia Beach. He
was the past president of the
Virginia Beach Sports Club and the
Kiwanis Club of Virginia Beach.

Earl M. Vickers "A9L,

former West Virginia state politi-

Cian, died Feb. 27. He was a mem-
“tof the Executive Committee,

Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Delta
Phi, Pi Alpha Nu, forensic team,
Cotllion Club and Lambda Chi
Alpha social fraternity. He served
in the U.S. Navy during World War
Il. He worked for the FBI before
returning to West Virginia, where
he served as majority leader in the
House of Delegates and then as
the state’s first director of legisla-
tive services.

Edward P. Bassett '5I,
former chairman of journalism
schools at five major universities,
died March 1 in Portland, Ore. A
member of Delta ‘Tau Delta social
fraternity, he served on _ the
Executive Committee and was
junior class vice president. Bassett
served as president of the
American Association of Schools
and Departments of Journalism
and the Association of Education
in Journalism and Mass Com-
munications.

Ceorge H. Matchneer '52,

a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, died Jan. 7 in
Columbus, Ohio. He served in the
U.S. Navy during the Korean War.

Charles R. Smith '52,
former Mercer County (W.Va.)
prosecuting attorney, died Feb. 9.
A member of the football team and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity,
he served in the U.S. Army from
1946 to 1948. He practiced law
with the firm of Richardson and
Kemper. He was awarded the
American Legion’s Distinguished
Citizenship Award.

Michael P. Mohler '54,

a member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity and the Inter-
national Club, died June 19, 2000,
in San Antonio.

James E. Page Sr. '57,
former headmaster of American
Community Schools in Switzer-
land, Italy and London, died Nov.
13, 2000, in USK, South Wales,
U.K.

Morgan L. Shelor '57,

a former vice president and actuary
for Great Southern Life Insurance
Co., died March 23 in Houston.
He was a member of Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity, White Friars, Phi
Eta Sigma and the Interfraternity
Council. He began his career with
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Co.
in Washington before leaving to
join Great Southern. He later

 

formed APLITEC Inc., a firm spe-
cializing in computer software for
the life insurance industry.

Charles P. Corn '58,

an author, historian and journalist,
died March 17 in San Francisco. A
member of Phi Delta ‘Theta social
fraternity, he was on the Freshman
Assimilation Committee, White
Friars and the lacrosse team. He
served in the U.S. Marine Corps in
the Honor Guard at the White
House during John Ek Kennedy’s
administration. He wrote Daéstant
Islands and The Scents of E-den.

Ceorge E. Steffee III '58,

former general manager of Hill *N
Dale Farm near Barrington, III,
died Jan. 9 in Aurora, Ill. He was
member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity He worked for two years
as assistant to then Ellis Park
President Mike Friedrich before
working as a blood stock agent.

Thaddeus W. Bell '60,
owner of the DuPont Circle Club,
died Jan. 23, 2000. He was a mem-
ber of Delta ‘Tau Delta social fra-
ternity.

F. Fox Benton Jr. '60,
chairman of Michael Petroleum
Co. and MPAC Energy L.L.C.,
died Feb. 2 in Houston. A magna
cum laude graduate, he was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma, the
Calyx staff, the University publica-
tions board, the rifle team and was
a second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army Reserve. He was founder
and president of Houston Oil and
Minerals Corp. and served on the
W&L Board of ‘Trustees.

Paul H. Coffey 'GIL,

former partner from the law firm of
Edmunds and Williams PC. in
Lynchburg, died March 15. He
was editor of the Law Review and a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa.
He was president of Poplar Forest
Settlement Services in Forest, Va.,
and served in the U.S. Marine
Corps. Reserves.

E. Robert Cordon '66,

a lawyer and business executive in
Chicago, died Jan. 17. A member
of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, he
joined the law firm of Vedder,
Price, Kaufman, Kammholz and
Day. Gordon later became CEO of
the parent company of the Café
Luciano and Cucina Roma restau-
rants.

The Rev. S. Bryant
Kendrick Jr. '67,

associate professor of gerontology
and internal medicine at Wake
Forest University Medical School,
died Nov. 13, 2000. A member of
Omicron Delta Kappa Society, he
was a member of the football team
and the Freshman Assimilation
Committee, and he served as the
sophomore class representative on
the Executive Committee. He
received the John ‘lempleton
Award for Faith and Medicine.

Dr. Andrew M. Raring '67,
a geologist and environmental
consultant in Pfafftown, N.C.,
died Nov. 27, 2000. He was a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity. His work cen-
tered on oil and gas exploration,
initially in geotechtonic research
with Phillips Petroleum and Gulf
Oil and later in management and
consulting capacities in San
Antonio. After serving as district
geophysicist and manager for
Placid Oil Co. and vice president
of the Petrolero Corp., he moved
to North Carolina to work as a
self-employed geologist and envi-
ronmental consultant.

Larry F. Brown '72,

an attorney in Fort Worth, ‘Texas,
died Jan. 11. He was a member of
the football team and Kappa
Sigma social fraternity. He
interned for Sen. John G. ‘lower
and as an administrative assistant
to Rep. Ray Barnhardt during the
‘lexas Constitutional Convention.
Before starting his private practice,
he also worked in the ‘Larrant
County district attorney’s office for
several years.

J. Patrick O’Connell Jr. '85,
vice president of Awning Enter-
prises Inc. in Frederick, Md., died
March 6 in Staunton. He was pres-
ident of Phi Kappa Psi social fra-
ternity and captain of the football
team.

Frederick W. Finke ‘91,

a former veterinary assistant at
Hillsboro Animal Hospital in
Hillsboro, ‘lenn., died Jan. 8 A
cum laude graduate, Finke was a
member of the football team and
Kappa Alpha Order.

 

 

, ee ee ee ee

Mourning the Loss

rr >< .
Sl, kriend
WL
William Crane Washburn Sr. '40
Bill Washburn, Washington and Lee University’s highly successful alumni
director and winning coach of W&Ls first women’s tennis team, died
Sunday, Feb. 25 after a long battle with cancer. He was 82.

In his 30-year career at the University, Washburn increased the
number of alumni chapters from several dozen to about 70 groups nation-
ally, headed both men’s and women’s tennis teams and bolstered W&Ls
endowment as associate director of development.

Washburn, an expert tennis player, made athletic history by guiding
W&Ls fledgling women’s tennis team from a 1-8 season in 1986 to an 18-
1 record just two years later. His success was widely recognized when he
was named the 1988 Coach of the Year by the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference. He also coached the men’s tennis team from 1959 to1964.

Born in Augusta, Ga., Washburn worked in the shipbuilding divi-
sion of Bethlehem Steel Corp. before serving in the U.S. Navy during
World War II. He was called back into active military service for one year
during the Korean War.

An economics graduate, Washburn joined the University in 1958
from Gulf States Paper Corp. in ‘Tuscaloosa, Ala., to become the
University’s alumni secretary.

In 1983, Washburn took his encyclopedic knowledge of alumni
affairs to the University’s Development Office.

In 1991, Washburn received W&Ls R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Award for
his “outstanding contributions to the department of athletics and physical
education.” He also was honored in 1988 by the Council for the
Advancement and Support of Education for his many years in institution-

al advancement.

»

Bill Washburn was born into a generation that believed in the virtues of
honor, integrity, hard work and kindness. ‘These qualities imply also hon-
esty, loyalty, steadfastness and trustworthiness. It is easy to profess these
virtues, but seemingly devils and demons frustrate the efforts of most of
us to acquire them. And some say that in recent times, they are rarely even
professed. But for Bill, by the time he came to Washington and Lee to
work nearly half a century ago, these traits of character had already
become the habits of a lifetime.

As alumni secretary, he achieved for the school not only the tangi-
ble results of his tireless work, he treated each alumnus he met as a spe-
cial person. He came to know nearly all of them, and they came to know
and love him. His extraordinary wife, Elizabeth, was tireless in her help
to him, always gracious, hospitable, witty and loving. Over the years,

they welcomed and entertained thousands of alumni and students in

ei A Lifetime of Habits to Emulate

Washburn was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. His numerous
volunteer endeavors included serving as a member of the vestry and
senior warden at St. Paul’s Anglican Church in Lexington. Following his
retirement, he was named to the governing board of the Rockbridge
County Library Foundation.

Washburn is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Lancaster Washburn

and three sons, William C. Washburn, Jr. 66 of Richmond, Dabney

 

BiLL WASHBURN °40 DISCUSSES A UNIVERSITY PROGRAM

WITH FORMER UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT ROBERT E.R.
HUNTLEY IN LEE CHAPEL. WASHBURN IS KNEELING
ON THE STAGE.

  

Lancaster Washburn of Las Vegas, Nev., and Marshall Prince Washburn
°73 of Spartanburg, S.C. He has four grandchildren, William C. Washburn,
III °95, ‘Thomas Bell Washburn °99, Margaret Loring Washburn and

Marshall Prince Washburn, Jr. 4

their home as well as on the campus and during countless visits to chap-
ters everywhere.

And then after that job was done, and after he could have retired to
what for most would have been well-earned leisure, other tasks were there
for him to do. He became a highly successful and much beloved coach of
the women’s tennis team, and he helped his school attract financial sup-
port from the estates of those who love it.

Each of us in the course of a lifetime is given to know a few people—
maybe just one or two—who somehow learn to live life successfully, to
tame the demons that get in the way of the virtues we profess, to have
more concern for others than for themselves, and who know without
doubt that, finally, good is triumphant. For those who knew him, Bill
Washburn was part of that lifetime quota.

—Robert E.R. Huntley °50,°57L, Former University President 1968-1983

  

 

 

M
¥ .
i

CM) BT — Bae) Pe A

 

 

Hi oa
@lanson '03, midfielder One Brief Shining Moment

,

Cee

Js
if : ) |

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse team
tf he

4 : reached the pinnacle, achieving the
No. 1 ranking in Division III this season

and holding it for four weeks. ‘The

/ ’
x j team’s glimpse at Camelot ended in a
re 4 heartbreaker, a 12-11 loss to Hampden-

Sydney on April 21, costing it a slot
— _ , : in the NCAA tournament. W&L plays
in the Old Dominion Athletic

Conference, which has only one bid to the NCAA

a
Pope Hackney ‘OI, midfielder
team in his 13 seasons. Part of the reason was - a

field. Coach Jim Stagnitta said this was his best

 

the play of six preseason All- (a

e ° . “ ~ eo -

i > av) . ‘— > > . C44 GE a 4

Americans in senior midfielders  //ffeeee-
SIMEREEEEE ES
(FMEMMEER ES

 

Bernie Norton (17) and Pope

Hackney (25), senior attackman

*S == = =

i

Matt Dugan (12), senior defense-

man Pete Iwancio (21). senior

SS? = a

goalie Wes Hays (1) and sophomore
midfielder ‘fom Melanson (33).
For more information on how
the season turned out, go to

www.wlu.edu/sports

er Hays ‘Ol, OL

e:

 

ra r 4 * Z| , ee » , i Fi

 

, ya 2
le ee ee ee

The Washington and Lee University NON PROFIT ORg.

; 2 U.s. Poe ;
AtLumenmt MAGAZANS OSTAGE
P A I D
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 PERMIT NO. 508

www.wlu.edu NORFOLK, Va

Summer Schoo | Sharpen your pencils. If you are craving

JUNE 17-23:
an academic experience, if you want to live like a college student again, don’t

The Refracted Eye:
A Workshop in Photography,

miss the annual Alumni College. This year’s curriculum is particularly enticing.

For more information, go to http://alumnicollege.wlu.edu/

featuring Steve Morello, wildlife photographer,
Mario Corvetto, Peruvian photojournalist, and
W&Ls own Patrick Hinely’73 and Larry Stene.
JUNE 24-30:

The World of Opera,
featuring W&L faculty, opera singer
Meagan Miller 96 and Craig Fields, director
of the Roanoke Opera Company.

JULY 1-7:

The Best Years of Our Lives:
America After WWII,
featuring many distinguished W&L faculty,
including history Professor Barry Machado.
JULY 8-14:

Passport to Italy:
Perspective and Encounter,
featuring W&L Professors George Bent,
David Peterson and Edward Adams.
JULY 15-21:

Old Monarchies and New Democracies,
featuring W&L and VMI distinguished faculty.

 

