     
  
 
   
   

le University Alumni Magazine» $P R1NG 2003

 

Helping the
Rising Generation

Reach the Summit

   

 

 

   
   

 

  
  

        

 

   

    

 

   

ecent

Become Citizens

LAA

 

 

s from May 7-10. Following a long tradition of nabbing big
the student organizers of Mock Con presented three well-

known Democrats as keynote speakers.
Donna Brazile managed the presidential campaign of Al Gore and
sepl ‘Lieberman in 2000, the first African-American in that role,
and is now the chair of the Democratic National Committee’s Voting
Rights Institute. Consultant Dick Morris planned winning guberna-
torial and presidential campaigns for Bill Clinton and has done the
same for politicians from the U.S. to South America. ‘The Reverend
Al Sharpton, a civil-rights activist from New York who has seen his
share of controversy, is running for president, one of two African-

DONNA BRAZILE

i  -

 

DIicK MORRIS

American candidates as the campaign gets off the ground.

An issues forum featured moderator William FE Connelly Jr
John K. Boardman Professor of Politics; Charlie Cook, political
lyst and editor and publisher of 7Ze Cook Political Report, Dick Mort
performing double duty; and Larry Sabato, of the University
Virginia, an oft-quoted political commentator. A debate betw
W&Ls Young Democrats and College Republicans opened
entire event, and a concert at Lime Kiln featuring the Lost ‘Trailer
and the North Mississippi All-Stars wrapped it up. |

The 23rd quadrennial Washington and Lee Mock Convent
will take place on January 30-31, 2004. The convention has an envia )
record of picking presidential candidates—how will it do in 2008

 

AL SHARPTON

 

 

 

 

 

SIMPLE £ OVRT2AY. Fut State.) 6 h6UPMRRA BIT COCs

AT. WAS MBANGAION. AN D135 % ] By Mame Warren

The speaking tradition defines W&L for many people. How has it changed over the years?

 

Beer Nn G 1-7 CV ER Pe E CO. Fee ALUM NT. TS Se
Sa TUN DRAISING CHALEPEGE I By Gathy L. Eberly

‘The Campaign for the Rising Generation is in the home stretch—with your help.

 

PPepeEeN TS OW bP OUT «BORDERS HOWELL ALUM NE STUDY
GresaL I'ssuEsiAa ss WKPSON FELLOWS oR) Agnes Fiak es.

Tom Grove ’02 and Matthew Petrusek ’o2

Recent graduates undertake solo journeys around the world, but they won’t be alone for long.

 

 

Eq Atumn: PRESIDENT’S 5 COLONNADE Ey wae LAW

JOURNAL
“ . The Trident celebrates a birthday; a Alumna and historic cemetery; U.S.

umni relations. : =.
is... a civil rights symposium; digital art; News © World Report ranking; new

campus news. center for law and history; first
Ey L S 7 - b R S Cee em eee meer eee eer ee eee rere eereereseseseesreeereeeeeses annual Powell lecture; Supreme
Women, diversity, Shepherd 17 | CENERALS’ REPORT Court swearing-in.
Poverty ee. ee eg a ee 8 We ee ee EE oe es ea ge
ra

i. gram, academic The first female athletes at W&L.
calend:
a yO ee 0 a Eq Atumnt NEws

‘The passing of Herman ‘Taylor ’57,
’ revered professor of classical lan-
+n 2... . 23804 : sits A ;
the Cover: Ric hard M. Bus oY Jf. Os. of Figee teeters. guages and literature.

mers TAN yi Ao y a ‘ ‘ ,
. ; 5 a ew G lo ok ail Goshen Pass during a rock-climbing 6 60 Oe 4 Ae 2 8S ST Bek be 6 Ae es a 8 OS CRUE ts 88 SOR OES OOO SE
. 7. ; 1} se. 7

e°S in May. Photo by Ma ry Woodson.

 

VOLUME 78 | NUMBER 1
SPRING 26003

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Julie A. Campbell | Publications Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Cathy L. Eberly, Agnes Flak '03,

Bradford C. Gooch '58, Tom Grove '02,

Patrick Hinely '73, Ruth S. Intress,

R. Ethan Jameson '06, Sara Jurkowsky '03,

Laurie Lipscomb, Wendy Lovell '90,

Matthew Petrusek '02, Jim Raper, Colin

Tate 'O1, Melissa Thornley, Mame

Warren, Thomas White,

Mary Woodson | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely "73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. °60, Rector
Thomas G. Burish, President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edeard L. Bishop III 68 (Flourtown, Pa.)

J. Donald Childress ’71 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport IIT 69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T. Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

Wilham H. Fishback Jr. 56 (Tey, Va.)

John W. Folsom ’73 (Columbia, S.C.)

William R. Goodell ’80L (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Harteell IIT ’69, °75L (McLean, Va.)
William B. Hill Jr.°74,°77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard Jr. ’59, ’62L. (Baltimore)

William J. Kimmel IIT ’69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)
John D. Klinedinst’71,°78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, ’69L. (Houston)

Thomas N. McJunkin ’70 (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Monier ’62 (Wilson, Wyo.)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte, N.C.)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith ’73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Hoboken, N.J.)

Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C. B.) Tomm ’68, °75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Alston Parker Watt ’89 (Thomasville, Ga.)

Pamela J. White ’77L (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory

Switchboard 540-458-8400 THE LEYBURN _IBRARY

Publications Office 540-458-8956 WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV ERSIT’
Admissions Office 540-458-8710 LEXINGTON, VA, 24450

Alumni Office 540-458-5404

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu
Career Services 540-458-8595
Development Office 540-458-8410

News Office 540-458-8460

Sports Information Office 540-458-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-458-8998
W&L Home Page www.wlu.edu

OCT 25 2006

While our work is not yet com-
plete, we are confident that we
are on to some suggestions
which will improve the quality of
the experience for our alumni
volunteers and at the same time

enhance the value of alumni

pe es ee ae ee ee ae ee do a ee ie Pia Se ee

  
 
   
 
 
   
  

 

/ my way to work recently, I ran into Bob, a
good friend and fellow W&L alumnus. Our topic of conversation frequently includes
W&L, and that particular day was no exception. Bob asked what was going on with
the W&L Alumni Board, and I told him that over the past year or so, we have been

examining the effectiveness of alumni relations.

 

I have always admired Bob’s direct style and clarity of expression. When, for
example, most people might choose 25 words to convey a simple thought, Bob can
get the job done with five. (A rare quality indeed, particularly among those who, like
Bob, make their living as lawyers.) When I let it slip that a task force had been cre-
ated to spearhead our study, Bob’s eyes narrowed
a bit and he made a request: “Well, please don’t
screw anything up.”

Not exactly the expression of confidence in
our project that I had expected, but I think I
understand Bob’s point. After all, isn’t it a basic
law of human nature to question the necessity of a
task force to study anything—particularly an area
with a history of strong success such as alumni
relations at W&L?

So I want to assure the rest of you who might
have the same advice for us as Bob. Don’t worry.
We have no plans to suggest a change in anything CO a.

PRESIDENT,

W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
BILLWALLACE@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

in which we have enjoyed past success.

But with due respect for Bob and others
who may share his opinion, it is time to take a
comprehensive look at what we do. After all, the basic alumni relations framework
currently in place was developed long before the advent of today’s technological
craziness. Everyone, everywhere, immediately begins to fumble wildly for a cell
phone at the sound of their own personal electronic tune. We leave voice mails
while our e-mails back up, and vice versa.

Spam is not just a canned-meat product, and a

 

hit is no longer just a baseball statistic. We
know that for continued success, our alumni
relations effort must compete in an age where
the standard for acceptance is an immediate,
informational connection.

But even in the face of new challenges, we

 

involvement for WG&L. have good reason to expect a bright future. We

 

have reaffirmed with our study the timeless
value of the many ways that we remain connected to the unique quality of our expe-
rience at W&L, no matter how long ago we left Lexington.

While our work is not yet complete, we are confident that we are on to some
suggestions that will improve the quality of the experience for our alumni volunteers
and at the same time enhance the value of alumni involvement for W&L. With a sys-
tem that has as its solid foundation the passionate loyalty of alumni for this extraor-
dinary place, our job has been surprisingly easy.

I think even Bob will agree with our suggestions. *

 

Washi «

fee PR ALUMNI

gt eo A and

 

 

9 3 . >

Women’s Voices

Bravo! to Domnica Radulescu
for speaking out 0 the coverage
of women and women s activities
the alumni magazine. I

in
bservant enough

haven't been 0
of past issues to measure how
accurate her criticism is, though I
observed that the last issue
seemed to be fairly evenhanded
women, includ-
ing, among others, Ms. Radu-

lescu. But it is so good to hear a

in its coverage Ol

strong woman’s voice in the pub-
lic debate at Washington and
Lee. I wonder how much more
conscious my own. life would
have been if such a voice had
been there when I was a stu-
dent—a voice I would have had
to reckon with.

I hope there are a lot more
women (and men) like her, speak-
ing out at Washington and Lee.

Walter Bennett °65

Chapel Hill, N.C.

I had noticed no great oversight
in reporting the accomplish-
ments and achievements of
women at W&L, in the alumni
magazine or elsewhere. On the
contrary, one must applaud the
University for how quickly and
thoroughly it has incorporated
alumnae in positions on the fac-
ulty and on boards. A member of
the fifth coeducated class (1993),
I remember the tremendous
respect of students and _ profes-

sors alike for the leadership of

Write to WGL

By Mail: Publications Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-458-8024

All letters Should be signed and in lude the
oF "Ss name, address and daytime phone num-
for coer atom may be edited

the views of thei Gnd style. Signed articles reflect
those of the edite _— - vd not necessarily

, WS or the University.

tL oO 7

those first classes of women who
organized sororities and sports
teams and took their seats in the
classroom with pride. I never
encountered a professor who
treated me as anything less than
a scholar with a passion for learn-
ing who was a welcome addition
to his/her classroom.

Imagine my frustration, then,
when I arrived at the University
of Wisconsin (a model of “diver-
sity’) for graduate studies and
was roundly ignored by all my
professors. | was challenged to
move beyond my self-pity, how-
ever, by the wisdom of [Wiscon-
sin’s] renowned topologist [and
mathematician] Mary Ellen
Rudin. When asked by a group
of female students how they
could gain more respect from the
male faculty members, she
answered, “Do good math.” ‘This
really is the only appropriate
answer. We should all be so fortu-
nate as to be judged by the fruit
of our efforts.

Jennifer Carr Rabaey °93
Dearborn, Mich.

Diversity Redux

 

I write to rebuke Ms. Ramona
Franks Hagmaier for her careless
comments in the Fall 2002 Adwnm
Magazine. As it happens, I com-
pletely agree with her assertion
that what W&L students need for
the job market and for life are
“hard-core skills.” In English 105,
African-American Voices, two
such skills are the focus of study:
writing and argumentation.
African-American Voices was
designed to provide a demand-
ing syllabus of readings, about
which students write six college
essays, perfecting their prose and
honing their argumentative
skills. Sensitivity training has no
place in my classroom, though I
grant you that reading and think-
ing hard about literature (of any
period, by any author) may cullti-
vate a reader’s sympathies.
African-American writers are
aready pait of the great

 

American canon—we_ count
among them Nobel laureates,
Pulitzer Prize winners, and the
authors of modern classics in
drama, poetry and__ fiction.
American literature without
Ralph Ellison, Rita Dove,
August Wilson, Ernest Gaines,
Derek Walcott and [oni
Morrison, to name just a few of
the most distinguished figures,
would be a literature bereft of a
significant portion of cultural
value. [The culeural value to
which I refer is not the preserve
of a local community, but the
treasured possession of all liberal-
ly educated, humane citizens.

Suzanne Keen

Professor of English

Washington and Lee Unwversity

Judging from the impassioned
responses in the past [Fall 2002]
edition of the alumni magazine
to the article “Mixing It Up,” I
would say you have tweaked a
collective nerve. I suppose the
question being offered, is W&L
any less great as an institution
because it has a fairly homoge-
nous student body? Should
W&L accept persons of all races,
creeds and colors who meet its
stringent standards? ‘he answer
is of course.

I am not opposed to change at
W&L. Having graduated in
1985, I was a direct eyewitness to
the coeducation debate. I was for
the move to change back then,
and I think most would now
agree that coeducation was a
good change for W&L. Looking
back, I don’t remember W&L
having to beg women to attend
or lower admission standards for
their “inclusion.”

‘loday, it seems that there is a
contingent on campus who want
to engineer a perfectly diverse
(perfect according to the PC
crowd) student body and faculty.

Disturbingly, the article “Mixing

It Up” seems to forecast a seis-
mic shift towards the path of
inane political correctness (PC).

I think it wise not to underes-

 

and

ba Be Ae

MA A G A Zt NE

WASHINGION AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

BST

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

Wiltam P. Wallace Jr. °74,°77L, President (Roanoke.)

James R. Brooks °77, Vice President (Houston)

Russell W. Chambliss ’74, Immediate Past President
(Birmingham, Ala.)

Robert W.H. Mish III °76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman ’91 (Mornstown, N.J.)
Amy C. Balfour ’S9, °93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
Wilham M. Ball IIT °69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)
Barry O. Barlow °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Emily C. Bevill ’89 (Boston)

Roger G. Bowers ’94L (Richmond)

John M. Cleghorn °84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

Elizabeth A. Cummins ’89 (Nashville)

James W. DeYoung ’65 (Chicago)

J. Thad Elis IT °S2 (Atlanta)

John M. Falk ’&6, ‘901. (Washington)

Lee M. Hollis 86 (Birmingham)

Peter C. Keefe 78 (Washington)

Hugh L.. Robinson IT So (Baltimore)

Bradley B. Root 88 (Pittsburgh)

Devon A. McAlhster Rothwell 92 (San Francisco)
Willam W. Schaefer 60 (Memphis, Tenn.)
Wiltam M. Toles 92, °95L (Dallas)

Edward T: Taylor IT ’81 (Memphis)

Edward P. Tiffey ’90L. (Charleston, W.Va.)

John C. Vlahoplus °83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

James J. Kelley Il ’74L, President (Washington)

David P. Falck °78L, Vice President (New York City)

Lizanne Thomas ’82L., Immediate Past President
(Atlanta)

Law Council

Robby J. Aliff 91, °97L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Loranne Ausley ’90L (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T. Balfour ’63, °65L. (Richmond)

J. 1. Vance Berry, Jr. °79L (Jackson, Fla.)

Joseph W. Brown "OSL (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert 75, °79L. (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin ’90, °93L (Lousville, Ky.)
E. Townes Duncan °7SL (Nashville, Tenn.)

John L. Griffith Jr.°72L, (New York City)

The Hon. Michael L.. Krancer ’83L (Harrisburg, Pa.)
Jenelle Mims Marsh ’81L. (Tuscaloosa, Ala.)
Jessine A. Monaghan °79L. (Washington)

James E:. Nicholson °77L (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E.. Payne °63, ’67L (Richmond)
Jerrald J. Roehl ’71L. (Albuquerque, N.M.)
David G. Weaver 811. (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf ’SoL. (Washington)

William A. Worthington ’76L (Houston)

Richard T. (Rick) Woulfe °76L. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)
Laura Anderson Wright ’94L (College Park, Md.)

 

 

timate the PC crowd and what they are capable
of. ‘Take a moment to be mindful of a future
with W&L run by the PC demagogues. Maybe
they will brand the Honor System as discrimi-
natory to certain groups or a past-tense vestige
of totalitarian justice. Perhaps they will suggest
the name Lee be removed from W&L. ‘The PC
demagogues will not care one iota about W&L
and its traditions. But we alumni do today, and
we will tomorrow. Therefore, let’s not be
unmindful of the future and make an effort to
remain unique and special.

Paul Marasaullo °85

Laurel Hollow, N.Y.

President, Long Island Chapter

of WEL Alumni

It is disturbing to me that the University’s hard-
headed quest for “diversity” appears to put at
risk the heart and soul of everything W&L has
stood for throughout its unique and illustrious
history.

I have nothing against aspirations toward
diversity as long as the practical application of
that search is a blind one. During my years of
association with the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra, I always appreciated the honesty of
their auditions process. ‘The musicians play
behind a screen. Nothing more is known about
them than the sound that emanates from
behind that screen. ‘he auditions panel has no
idea if the player is male, female, black, white,
Christian, Muslim—or, for that matter, if they
are already a tenured player. If the music direc-
tor has concerns about the ongoing performance
of an orchestra member, that person is also sub-
jected to the blind audition process to hold his
or her spot. ‘The purpose of that orchestra is to
produce the best sound it can, and emotional
“touch points” that relate to gender, race, age or
tenure have no place in the selection process.

So it should be in the selection of those who
will be admitted to W&L and who will be
granted financial aid: the intellectual bench-
marks, plus other accomplishments in extracur-
ricular areas, should be the only factors under
consideration. If race, sex, nationality, religion
enter into consideration, the result of such a
choice can only be characterized as dishonest,
ironic for an institution that has always been
synonymous with strength of character and
integrity.

Peter J. Stelling 65
Smyrna, Ga.

Praise for Poverty Program

 

‘Too often letters to the editor carp. Not often,
less often than they should, they praise.

‘lom Shepherd ’52, for his philanthropy and
his inspiration, and Professor Harlan Beckley,
for his leadership of the Program for the
Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty, merit such
praise. Its adjunct, the placement of students in
settings where they can serve in meaningful
ways, is a prodigious benefaction to the agen-
cies (mine is one) that have hosted the
Shepherd Fellows.

For 10 weeks, an exceptional young woman
from W&L, Lisette Casagrande ’03, served our
treatment community, Bellevue Hospital’s
Addiction Rehabilitation Program, in measur-
able but also immeasurable ways. She filled in
for counselors on vacation. She interacted ther-
apeutically with our patients. She accomplished
tasks that had lain dormant for want of person-
nel. She provided us with her desire to serve
that was so clear-cut that it was infectious.

‘The faculty, the student body and the alumni
can be proud of this quiet but superb way W&L
serves the wide world beyond Lexington.

Dr. Robert Maslansky °52
New York, N.Y.

Academic Calendar

 

Editor’: Note: This letter arrtved shortly after the
March 18 issue of a Presidents Advisory Committee
report recommending changes to the academic calen-
dar. See p. 12 for details.

It is with great sadness that I learn of the immi-
nent demise of the Spring ‘Term at Washington
and Lee. ‘This represents the latest of many
changes in recent years which have combined
to forever change the nature of the student
experience on campus. It is possible that the
perspective gained with the passage of time will
demonstrate the change to the school calendar
to be a success.

I doubt it.

Few things define the Washington and
Lee experience such as the Spring ‘lerm.
Characterized by skeptics as nothing more than
afternoons at Goshen, Spring ‘Term in truth
offers the opportunity to take unusual and inter-
esting classes, study abroad or in Washington
and enjoy the beauty of the Blue Ridge.

  

It is a just reward for a student who quite
possibly works harder than any other in America, —
‘The idea that Washington and Lee students
transform from hard-working library inhabitants
in the Fall and Winter ‘Terms to nothing more
than drunken revelers in the Spring Term ig q
complete farce. Some of the classes offered in
the Spring ‘Term (the Korean War with Professor
Machado and Sports and Literature with
Professor Ray, for example) were among the
most reading-intensive classes this C-schoo]
major ever took (and two of the best),

‘The motivation for the curtailment of the
12-12-6 calendar leaves me incredulous. The
argument has been made that a normal class
schedule will prove less burdensome for teach-
ers and aid Washington and Lee in enticing
high-quality professors. If the current arrange-
ment is so disagreeable, how has the school suc-
ceeded in hiring the phenomenal faculty that it
currently employs? ‘The only motivation for
the change which I can surmise ts that perhaps
individuals in Washington Hall anticipate the
change will cause a leap from 12th to 9th in next
year’s U.S. News and World Report rankings. If
that is the motivation, let me point out that class
size (rumored to rise if a semester system is
instituted), student happiness and alumni sup-
port all play a part in these rankings as well.

Instituting a “regular” school calendar
would destroy one of the truly unique attribut-
es- of a school which seems to be losing its
uniqueness with each passing year. In the
University’s efforts to mimic the perceived
virtues of other schools, perhaps it should realize
that every single alumnus in its history declined
to attend any offer school.

I am truly grateful to have attended
Washington and Lee. Even more than that,
however, I am truly grateful to have attended
when it offered the wonderful experience of
Spring Term. In the University’s myopic efforts
to be all things to all people, it is rapidly becom-
ing nothing whatsoever to this alumnus.

Andrew Gary Simmons ‘Or

Chicago

Correction: Our apologies to the family of J.
Alan Greeter ’89 for the obituary conraimmg
incorrect information that appeared in an earll-

er issue. A corrected version appears on Pp. 52 #

 

Wachingtoan

 

eee

a w d

ma A G@ A £2 tN

 

 

  

 

= COLON NAODE

se |

   

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

FC, SAC compromise on Rush” read the kept true to the spirit of the ideals of the founding.”

pe headline of the very
of The Trident. On
April 28, 1993, the new stu-
dent newspaper rolled off the
presses and onto the campus of -
Washington and Lee University.
it was an inauspI-

Py
bold-ty

first Issuc

Patterson and his editorial colleagues Leigh
Allen, Nikki Magaziner (Mills) and Justin
McNaull (all 94) and Faith ‘Iruman, Joyce
Bautista and Mallory Meyers (all ’95) decided
W&L needed another student newspaper
because they “thought there was more to
In many ways, W&L than just what the school adminis-

The idea of another tration and the student government were

cious start.

us newspaper in addition to doing, which is all the other paper

camp
The Ring-tum Phi, supported by yet
independent of the University,
seemed far-fetched. Since then, howev-
er, the publication has expanded, con-

tracted and morphed into a half-dozen

seemed to report,” said Patterson.
“There was next to no coverage of
what students did outside class,
nothing about the social scene.
“The other paper also had a
manifestations (some better received than ‘we think this’ editorial where one or
others), while never forgetting its main two editors would give their opinion on
objective: to educate, liberate and inform the issues. We thought that didn’t
University community. fit in the context of a
That first issue mentioned Robert E. Lee’s college campus,
initiation of journalism studies and the fair, objec- where there was
tive coverage of news. “It is in this spirit that we supposed to be
launch The Trident,” wrote the staff. “What we had open thought and de-
was a group of students who thought that there was bate,” Patterson con-
a better way to deliver news to the Washington and tinued. “So we started
Lee community than was done before, and I pro-con editorials which
think that because it is still around 10 years later not only presented both
is proof that we were right,” said Greg sides of an issue, but
Patterson °94, its first editor. allowed the opportunity for
As part of Patterson’s duties as commu- people other than editors and
nications director for the governor of reporters to get into the paper.
Delaware, the former news reporter main- But most of all, we thought col-
tains relations with various school papers lege was a fun place, and the other
around the country. “School newspapers at paper didn’t reflect that. I think we
schools 10 times the size of W&L are not quite as good made The Trident tun while reporting

as The Trident,” said Patterson. He credits “the great journalism the news at the same time. ‘That was

department at W&L.” for the quality. Although the paper is not an the idea.”

extension of the department of Most important to Patterson
Journalism and mass communica- Student Newspaper and the editors who followed was
tions, as are most newspapers at The Tridenfs editorial indepen-

other universities, W&L journal- | yf J: dence—while still servin
‘ : gas a
ism students do work at The Trident. 7 l E11 ul 1% 11 J I O watchdog of student government

Patterson found the newspa- and the administration. “Each year

7 Shows Staying Power
per little changed since his tenure. : . our editors try to build on what pre-
Instead, [the editors] have kept to the found-

i .% Ah: : .
NS Spirit, which was to cater to your audience

 

vious editors did,” said Jacob ‘Irotter ’04, the pre-

 

sent editor in chief. “We take pride in making The

 

 

by not just giving them hard news, but also “l think we made The Trident Trident better than it was before we took charge.”

some entertainment. In terms of changes to the fun while reporting the news Backed by the University and by enthusias-

Paper, I have only noticed that what used to be at the same time. tic young editors, photographers, salespeople,

called the Distractions Page is now simply the That was the idea.” and business managers, 7/e Trident hasn’t looked

Back Page. But the editors over the years have —GREG PATTERSON ’94 back since 1993. ‘Technological advances in pub-
WS teha oe gp tue ee eS Mike @ AOE: 45 £

Se ee we: es ee ee ee ee

 

 

___i

lishing software, a growing staff and Two students won awards from very different entities during the 2002-2003 school year, Avery

changing needs required a move from | Gholston ’03 received the Outstanding Undergraduate Student Award from the American College
the newspaper’s present base of opera- Personnel Association’s Commission for Admissions, Orientation and First Year Experience, and
tions in the base- Marisa Meyer 705 won the Class Medal for outstanding performance in Introduction to Organic

“Each year our edi- ment of the Chemistry at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland.
tors try to build on University Cen- Dawn Watkins, dean of freshmen, nominated Gholston for her impact on Project Outreach,
what previous ter to _ larger pre-orientation program started three years ago as a five-day community service trip to Roanoke,

editors did,” said
Jacob Trotter 'O4,
the present editor
in chief. “We take
pride in making The
Trident better than
it was before we

offices in the Watkins wrote, “Avery has, indeed,
soon-to-be-com-
pleted John W.
Elrod University

set a new standard for other sty-
dent leaders interested in educat-
ing our first-year students. Avery’s
Pte Tine work with our pre-orientation pro-
spring, The In- gram has, in particular, fostered

a Acciwed inclusiveness and appreciation of

 

mw OE
took charge. di funding from differences for our incoming fresh-
the Executive

Council for the very first time, and the As head coordinator for the
staff used the money to purchase new past two years, Gholston expand-
computing hardware. In the past, all rev- ed the program, allowing stu-
enue has come from advertising.

“The Trident has evolved from its

dents to participate in poverty

  

and community service projects

infancy to adolescence,” said Phil in Greensboro, N.C., and Beckley,

 

Walotsky ’05, opinions editor, about the W.Va. Her goal was to help fresh-

newspaper’s present status. He credits “a men “meet a group of students
succession of excellent editors, especial- that they may not socialize with
ly in the last two years,” for providing when they get here . . . and have
history and tradition, both of which have them do something for the com-

proven as valuable as financial stability. munity, through service.” Watkins

Photo by Melissa Thornley

While maintaining tradition, The adds that Gholston “encouraged

Trident has also kept up with the latest MARISA MEYER ’O5 AND AVERY GHOLSTON ’0O3 freshmen to move beyond the

CELEBRATE THEIR ACHIEVEMENTS TOGETHER.

technological trends. It publishes on experiential to applied and theo-

  

 

the Web at www.thetrident.org. retical applications of studying j
“Although our subscription revenues poverty in the United States.” Many who participated in this pre-orientation program moved on to
are negatively impacted by running an participate in W&L’s Shepherd Poverty Program.
online site, we feel it is necessary, as Gholston, a double major in public policy and sociology, has accepted a job with the
both a service and responsibility, to | University as community service coordinator, a graduate internship that works closely with the
keep the entire W&L community Shepherd Program to place students in service internships. She will begin July 1, while also tak-
informed,” said Walotsky. Future plans ing graduate education classes at Mary Baldwin College. Her long-term career goal is to become j
include the newspaper’s first 20-page a public school superintendent. |
issue, and a color issue due out in Meyer, a sophomore chemistry major from Oklahoma, participated in the W&L-St. Andrews —
spring term 2003. Educational Partnership Program for Students in the Sciences and Preparing for the Health
A decade into the paper's life, Professions, along with 10 other students. The organic chemistry course enrolled both W&L and ‘
‘Trotter boasts about its accomplish- St. Andrews students. Last year another W&L student, Courtney Warner ’03, received the Class 1
ments. “Our work has paid off,” he said. Medal. '
“Ten years after its birth, Ze Trident is “When I first came to W&L I didn’t really think about study abroad,” said Meyer. “I really —
still publishing, and students and facul- decided to go when I realized how easy the application process was. It was a wonderful experience —
ty are still reading it. Only now it’s much because I had a chance to experience a completely different culture.”
slicker and more professional. The Meyer also won the W&L chemistry department’s 2002 Mary Louise Reid White Scholarship ‘
Trident has become a recognized entity, in Chemistry and has been nominated for a scholarship in chemistry from the Barry M. Goldwatet —
a respected newspaper, and a vital part Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation, which promotes the education of scientists;
of Washington and Lee.” Here’s to the | mathematicians and engineers. She will again do research this summer with Erich Uffelman, a9 —
next 10 years. ciate professor of chemistry. Melissa Thornley

—R. Ethan Jameson 06

 

Wash 4 -& @ tw ss and i, ee hee Misc @ Aig. me £

 

THE Cc OL: OW N A DE

 

  

I nthe summer of 2000, then-President John Elrod and associate

fessor of history Ted DeLaney ’85 talked about beginning a conference series in honor of John
pro =)

H. Chavis 1
Chavis Memorial .
lege degree in the United States. He chose the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark desegregation rul-
ing in 1954’s Brown wv. Board of
Education as the topic for the two-
day John Chavis Memorial
Symposium: Exploring Critical
Related to Race and

799, Washington and Lee’s first African-American student. DeLaney, a member of the

Committee, grabbed the chance to honor the first black person to receive a col-

JOHN CHAVIS MEMORIAL
SYMPOSIUM MAKES ITS BOW

Issues
Ethnicity in the United States.

Held on March 20-21,
2003, the conference was one
of the nation’s first discussions
of the impact and controversy of
the historic case in anticipation
of its 50th anniversary. A gener-
ous gift from Caroline and John
W. Ballantine °68 underwrote
most of the conference.

The symposium brought
nationally recognized scholars of
economics, history, law and poli-
tics to W&IL—Constance Curry,
Emory University; William A.

ECONOMICS PROFESSORS DARRICK HAMILTON, OF
GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY, AND WILLIAM DARITY
JR., OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT
CHAPEL HILL, CONDUCT A DISCUSSION WITH
STUDENTS DURING THE SYMPOSIUM.

Darity Jr, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill; Michael
Klarman, University of Virginia
School of Law; Kara Miles-
‘Turner, Morgan State University; keynote speaker James Patterson, Brown University, a winner of
the Bancroft Prize in history; and W&Ls own Kevin Crotty, associate professor of classics. The con-
ference centered around Patterson’s book Brown V. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Milestone and
Its Troubled Legacy.

Despite the presence of such high-powered scholars, the key to the success of the sympo-
sium was the level of student involvement. “The student panel was a very important and very
strong component of the symposium,” DeLaney said. “They really did a fantastic job.”

Damien Delaney ’03L moderated a panel of students that included Kisha Barnes ’04, speak-
ing on school segregation before and after Brown v. Board: Brooks Batcheller ’04, miscegenation and
civil rights; Andrew Borda ’03, white flight in Detroit; Meredith Donegan ’05, school integration in
Norfolk, Va.; ‘liffany Jenkins ’05, segregation in higher education; Sobechi Nzelibe ’03, school seg-
regation before and after Brown v. Board: and Olalani Oyegbola ’05, historically black colleges.

Donegan, a journalism mayor, said, “This conference was great for getting students to think
about issues in meaningful ways and then having the opportunity to discuss them. It’s important
for students to be able to form opinions and have the ability to articulate them.”

At the invitation of Dick Sessoms, senior director of major gifts at W&L, three students from
Medgar Evers College, Brooklyn, N.Y., attended: Gillian Edwin, Nekkeisha Sandy-Afful and Andrea
Segers, plus faculty member Chris Ross. Named after the African-American civil rights leader, the
pool was founded in 1970. “It was rewarding to discover through the symposium common values,”
said Sessoms, “and somehow reassuring to watch [the students] discover common ground.”

—Sara Jurkowsky 03

 

Credit Worthy

 

En Cuarde

Joseph Martinez, chair of the theater
department, presented the J.D.
Martinez Award for Unarmed Stage
Fighting in London on behalf of the
Society of American Fight Directors, of
which he 1s a founding member.

‘The society created the endowed
award in honor of Martinez, who is one
of 10 fight masters in the 900-member
group. An associate professor and a 20-
year member of W&Ls faculty,
Martinez teaches 14th- to 18th-century
Medieval, Renaissance and Restoration
period swordplay. He is the author of
Combat Mime: A Non-Violent Approach to
Stage Violence and The Swords of
Shakespeare: An Illustrated Guide to Stage
Combat Choreography in the Plays of

Shakespeare.

Siege of Leningrad

Richard H. Bidlack, associate profes-
sor of history and Russian studies, was
awarded a sabbatical fellowship from
the American Philosophical Society for
the 2003-04 academic year. ‘The grant,
as well as one he received from the
National Endowment for the
Humanities, will support his writing of
a book on the 872-day siege of
Leningrad by Nazi Germany.

‘The book, which he is working on
with a Russian colleague, will analyze
the siege from several perspectives,
including relations between Lenin-
erad’s political leaders, and between
Stalin and his subordinates in the
Kremlin. Bidlack also will examine how
millions of ordinary Leningraders strug-

gled to survive.

Dollars for
Shepherd Poverty Program

Congress has provided W&L with its
second $500,000 grant to expand and
enhance the Shepherd Poverty

Program, which merges students’ acad-

 

THE Go ee We «Tee ee ee?

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

emic study of national and global poverty
with intensive fieldwork in the United
States and Latin America.

The Congressional grant, part of
this year’s omnibus appropriations bill,
was advanced by Sixth District Rep.
Robert L. Goodlatte ’77L, chairman of
the House Agriculture Committee, and
Sen. John Warner °49, chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee.

“T applaud the Shepherd Poverty
Program for its hard work and dedica-
tion to the nation’s poor,” said
Goodlatte. “I was pleased to be able to
help secure this funding, which will
ensure that the Shepherd program con-
tinues to provide a unique learning
experience while at the same time serv-

ing the disadvantaged among us.”

Wizards of Lizards

Why did the salamander cross the road?
W&L biologists David Marsh and
Paul Cabe are trying to determine if it
actually did. In a proposal funded by a
$374,754 National Science Foundation
grant, the researchers are investigating
how new roads are fragmenting threat-
ened forest habitats.

‘The three-year grant will enable
them and their undergraduates to
intensify their field surveys, field
experiments and genetic analyses to

determine how different types of roads

affect the density, dispersal and gene’

flow among terrestrial salamanders in
forests.

Marsh, who calls this part of
Virginia “salamander central,” says the
W&L research in ecology and conserva-
tion biology will produce data for deci-
sions by state and federal governments

about road building in forests.
Sukow Scores
NSF Career Crant

David W. Sukow, assistant professor of
physics and engineering at Washington

 

Photo by Laurie Lipscomb

 

  

John McEnroe threw major temper tantrums, not to mention his tennis racket. ‘Tanya Harding
arranged for thugs to smash her ice-skating rival’s knee. Baseball legend Darryl Strawberry drifted
in and out of drug rehabilitation programs and finally landed in prison.

What kind of role models are they for young people? ‘Terrible ones, says Scott Fechnay 69.
“Professional athletes have a tremendous amount of influence on kids. Every move they make on
and off the playing field is watched by youngsters. We need to teach our kids to be ethical ang
moral leaders be.
fore they get out
into the professional]
And we
should be doing
everything we cap
at W&L to accom-
plish this.”

world.

Rather than just
shrug his shoulders,
Fechnay, with the
help of Mike Walsh,
director of athletics,
proposed a leader-
ship initiative for
Washington — and
Lee’s students and
provided $250,000

to get the Fechnay

Pe Por f

2 ie
STUDENTS ARE LEARNING ON THE ROPES COURSE OF THE
FECHNAY LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

Leaders im
Development Program off the ground—literally. A soccer captain his senior year, Fechnay
remarked that he didn’t have any particular leadership skills at that age, yet it was a position that
had the potential to set standards for teammates. “Athletes and students, in general, look up to
the older kids who are in leadership positions for guidance,” he said. “Therefore, we need to
make sure that we are doing all we can to have a positive impact on these leaders.”

Central to the program is a ropes challenge course, designed by Karl Rohnke ’60, founder of
High 5 Adventure Learning, which serves to advance teamwork and trust through physical interac-
tions. Near the Cap’n Dick Smith baseball field, under a stand of pines, students start with simple
tasks, such as coordinating their efforts to navigate a maze while blindfolded, and graduate to more
complicated scenarios involving walking a tightrope and scaling the trees. ‘The idea 1s to start with
varsity athletes and bring in other student organizations later on.

“Students will learn to be better leaders if they figure it out for themselves,” said Burr Datz 76,
director of leadership development at W&L and one of the course’s trained facilitators. When a sit-
uation arises, whether a fraternity infraction or date
“We need to teach our kids #0
be ethical and moral leaders
before they get out into the
professional world. And we
should be doing everything WE

oom
can at WGL to accomplish thi
Scott FECHNAY 69

rape, Datz says students can react by choosing to do
nothing, to belittle the efforts of others or to be part
of the solution. Datz and the creators of the
Fechnay Leadership Development Program hope
students will choose the latter—and make being

part of the solution a lifelong habit.

 

 

“IT could talk to them about leadership and
what it means, but they won’t remember what I said
or understand it,” says Datz. “But if students have to figure out how to safely bring their peels

through a complicated situation—in this case spotting and belaying one another through the rope
they

course—then they’re learning to communicate. They’re learning how to lead, even though

might not realize it, and that will stay with them for the rest of their lives.”

 

Co ee aa

Wilks 2G 9A 22s les Se

 

THE Oe «sae Sao ee cat. ay ae a

 

 

 

 

The lesson has not been lost on students who have completed the exercise. Laura Bruno ’03,
co-captain of the tennis team and a double major in business administration and Spanish, struggled
to complete an exercise 30 feet off the ground. “My stomach was churning,” she remembered, “and
when | looked down I froze.” With the help of another student, she made her way across the very
narrow log. “That really showed me the power of the ropes course. Everyone has different strengths
and weaknesses. ‘To be a good captain, you must help people conquer their own weaknesses.”

Kathleen Gibson, a senior Spanish major and field hockey captain, says she gained more confi-
dence in herself as a leader. “I do think it’s important for different types of people to be given the
opportunity to lead,” she said, “even if they are not natural leaders. Sometimes we can learn a lot
when we have to step into a role that is outside our comfort zone.”

In the years to come, many W&L students will have a chance to test their comfort zones
through the Fechnay Leadership Development Program and will walk away with the skills to
motivate and guide others. After all, as Aristotle once said, “Good habits formed at youth make all

the difference.” —Louise Uffelman

THE GREAT WALL IN CHINA STRETCHES ON FOR MILES.
THESE W&L TRAVELERS PAUSE FOR A BREAK AND PHOTO OP.

 

Captain’s Log: “Mandarin China,” October 12-29, 2002

 

 

One of the highlights of the Beijing environs was the trip out to the Great Wall. How “great” the
wall is can be known only through direct experience. As with China itself, the wall is so big that it is
quite beyond comprehension. Here again, we encountered massive crowds—one cannot take a pic-
ture of anything in China without getting tourists in the shot! We began to climb on one section of
the wall, but at over 45 degrees the pitch proved daunting, so we trudged in the other direction for
awhile, saving our legs for another day. The wall stretched on for miles, then disappeared in the haze
that had accompanied our visit to Beijing. The sun did break through for a few minutes, dramati-

cally illuminating the wall, but for the most part our journey through China was hazy. . . .

Another, quite different highlight was a visit to the Master of Nets Garden in Shanghai—a
small, intimate, gorgeous garden, just the type you think of when a Chinese garden is mentioned. It
had all the clichés of Chinese gardens, but it was alive, with a little pond and a little bridge, the
ming pagodas, the exotic, flowing foliage. Most typical is the Chinese use of stones as decora-
uve items. ‘he Chinese have a much closer relationship to and reverence for nature than we seem
to have, and their use of stone symbolized that closeness for us.

—Bradford C. Gooch ’58

 

 

 

Credit Worthy

and Lee University, has received the
National Science Foundation’s most
prestigious award for
junior faculty. His
Career Award provides
$400,000 over five
years for his research
projects involving
optics and lasers.
Sukow is one of
approximately 400

researchers across the

 

nation to receive an
NSF Career Award. George Carras,
director of corporate and foundation
relations and faculty grant support at
W&L, said, “Most Career Awards are
bestowed on professors at large research
institutions. It is unusual for an under-
graduate professor at a liberal-arts col-
lege to receive one. The award is a trib-
ute to the quality of David’s research,
the importance and significance of the
topic and his previous research and
funding record.”

Sukow’s proposal focuses on
developing and supporting a stronger
research program at W&L through
expanding his experiments in semicon-
ductor laser dynamics. He explains that
when lasers are used to read informa-
tion from compact disks or to transmit
data through fiber optic lines, a small
portion of the light is often reflected
directly back into the laser. ‘This
reflected light can make a normally sta-
ble laser begin to pulse and oscillate
erratically, which usually degrades the
information.

Another area Sukow is studying
involves setting two lasers to pulse
erratically but in exactly the same way
so that encoded information cannot be
easily deciphered. “These are subjects
of fundamental interest and technolog-
ical importance,” he said. “The results
of these research projects will con-
tribute to faster and more efficient opti-

cal communication systems.”

 

DAVID SUKOW

THE . 6 t:0C0 NN A OE

 

 

Bookshelf

Save the Fish

 

Stephen Sloan °54 describes the games
that nations and organizations play in
order to exploit migratory fishery
resources in the Atlantic, Caribbean,
and Mediterranean waters in Ocean
Bankruptcy.

TRU

 

Wheeling & Dealing

Peter Hunt °56 provides a_ broad
overview in Structuring Mergers ©&
Acquisitions: A Guide to
Shareholder Value. His

Remember the shareholder.

Creating

advice?

 

Best of the Best

Who are the all-time greatest baseball
players and why: G. Scott ‘Thomas ’77
has developed a series of mathematical-
ly precise, computer-generated formu-
las that adjust the statistics of every
team, creating a fair basis of comparison
in

among generations of players

Leveling the Feld.

 

During winter term, there was a new member of the Washington and Lee faculty whom only”
a handful of people saw each week. His office was not on campus but in Little-Rock, Ark,, and
he wasn’t visiting from another university. In an impressive display of time management and Com-
mitment, Dr. Andrew “Drew”

Kumpuris °71 was a_ professor PROFES

PHYSICIAN,
one morning a week—and a car-

FREQUENT FLY

diologist the rest. “The lucky few
who encountered him at W&L
were 13 students and a handful
of guests who attended his
Monday morning seminar in
health care policy, Politics 390.

Kumpuris would have
loved to stick around after class,
but he had a flight to catch and
patients to see upon his return
to Little Rock. Although he
didn’t seem to mind squeezing
in time to teach at W&L, the
doctor masterfully juggled his
schedule to make the trip to
Virginia each week.

After a few hours of rounds
at the hospital on Sunday morn-
ings, Kumpuris left Little Rock at
3:30 p.m. and flew to Roanoke. A
quick jaunt up I-81, and he usual-
ly was in Lexington by 10:30 p.m.

DURING HIS MONDAY
WEL.

Be Se
Wie ee a

On Mondays, his class began

 

promptly at 8 a.m., and shortly
after 11 a.m., he headed back to the Roanoke airport, arriving in Arkansas around 3 p.m.

“T don’t miss a step with my practice when I’m teaching here in Lexington,” he explained.
“My emergencies are covered, calls go through my office so I can talk to my patients if I need to
and they don’t realize that I’m gone.” On the flip side, his students said Kumpuris was very acces-
sible when he wasn’t on campus, communicating with them by telephone and e-mail.

Attending the lengthy class once a week was the sacrifice his students made so he could fly
here for the course. Initially scheduled from 9 a.m. to noon, the class met from 8 to 11 a.m. in order
to get Kumpuris back to his practice in Arkansas sooner. In return for the earlier hour, he provid
ed the class with coffee and doughnuts. “I know 8 a.m. is early for college students, but the deal
I made with them is worth it,” said Kumpuris. “The hour difference in the class’s start time saved
me four extra hours of travel.”

While not an academic by trade, Kumpuris is more than qualified to teach Politics 390 thanks
to a decade of experience in health care policy at both the state and national levels. His creden-
tials include advising the Clinton Health Care ‘Task Force in 1992, chairing the Arkansas Health
Care Reform Task Force from 1992 to 1993, and joining a new governing board in 1994 charged
with merging all of Arkansas’ insurance purchasing. He chaired that board from 1996 to 1998.

His experience with a governor’s task force for expanding coverage to the uninsured
attracted the attention of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which named him one of six
2001-02 Health Policy Fellows. This select group of health care professionals typically comm
from academic and community-based settings. Kumpuris is one of the only practicing phys

cians to be selected.

 

Was kh

 

this experience as aca-

 

uring the program, fellows are immersed in training to further their knowledge of the

D
public policy

sion-making. F beings : '
] ffords (I-VT), where he worked on legislation dealing with everything from patient safety to
cc 9

process, the economics of health care and the politics and process of federal deci-

ollowing this orientation, Kumpuris spent a year in the office of Senator James

rural health care to Medicare reform.

“Because Senator Jeffords is on both the Senate HELP [Health, Education, Labor and

Pensions] Committee and the Finance Committee, there’s no piece of legislation his office isn’t

part of,” said Kumpuris. “It was a great opportunity for a mid-career professional like me to
a pi

gain a great deal of experience on health care policy.”

He came here because of his personal ties to W&L. He

“I've tried to make h ;

appens to be a member of the Alumni Advisory Board for the

: Shepherd Poverty Program, the parent of a 1998 graduate and
demic as possible,

starting with a philo-
sophical background
and moving into dis-
cussions of current

public-policy issues.

the brother of a member of the Class of 1970. Such connec-
tions, combined with his commitment to the fellowship, result-
ed in the course. Kumpuris volunteered his time to teach, and
the fellowship grant from the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation covered his travel expenses.

“These connections have provided W&L with a wonder-
ful opportunity,” said Harlan Beckley, Fletcher Otey ‘Thomas
professor of religion and director of the Shepherd Program, whose relationship with Kumpuris
through the program resulted in his presence. “He brings to W&L an expertise on health care
policy that no one here has.”

Although Kumpuris’ class fell under the jurisdiction of the politics department, it shows the
link between the underclass and religion, sociology, economics and other disciplines taught at
W&L. Beckley thinks it’s exactly the type of course that expands the mission of the Shepherd
Poverty Program in departments that are discipline-based.

Kumpuris does, too. “My health care policy seminar captures the spirit of what the Board

9

thinks the University should be teaching,” said Kumpuris of the Shepherd Poverty Program’s
Alumni Advisory Board. “It’s about real people and real issues in a philosophical setting. I want
my students to see the big picture and, at the end of the day, to see why things happen.”

‘Though he is a doctor of medicine, not of letters, Kumpuris made every effort to make his
class as academic as possible. The reading list was perhaps one of the more ambitious ones that
semester, and his students covered issues such as the concepts of justice, equality and liberty in
a society; the economy, budget and fiscal realities of health care; and the uninsured, Medicaid,
Medicare and prescription-drug benefits.

“Dr. Kumpuris’ seminar is a very valuable addition to our curriculum,” said politics
Professor Lewis John ’58, who attended the class as often as he could. “He presents a different
perspective than someone with a more academic background, and the information he’s bringing
us is extremely current.”

While it’s not likely that Kumpuris will drop his medical practice to continue teaching, his
academic career probably hasn’t ended with winter term. He is active in the development of the
Arkansas Center for Health Improvement, an independent, nonpartisan organization with a mis-
sion to improve Arkansas’ health care system through policy research, education and public advo-
cacy. Kumpuris also continues to work with the Arkansas legislature on its Medicare program.

“Dve tried to make this experience as academic as possible, starting with a philosophical
background and moving into discussions of current public policy issues,” said Kumpuris. “It’s
been an enjoyable experience to teach here and to show these students what is the responsibil-
ity of government to all people and to show the relationship in total.”

Wi |
tha commitment to teaching, health care and W&L that spans two states, one time zone
and at least two airports,

Drew Kumpuris shows students another facet of responsibility and
relationships.

—Wendy Lovell ’90

 

Bookshelf

 

Poetry Debut

Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon ’93 mixes ver-
nacular language with classical mytholo-
gy, modern struggles with biblical trials,
to give voice to women past and present

in her new volume of poetry, Black Swan.

ea

At Ve aw df

 

Love and Friendship: Rethinking Politics and
Affection in Modern Times by Eduardo
Velasquez, associate professor of politics,
shows the many faces of love and friend-
ship in politics in these essays by political
scientists, novelists, philosophers, theolo-

gians and poets.

 

th

Earth Science: Understanding Environmental
Systems is the latest work of Edgar W.
Spencer ’53, emeritus professor of geolo-
gy. The textbook emphasizes the impor-
tance of understanding how human

actions affect the earth’s complex systems.

 

 

fiona MERE Ani U Omagnect

Mitieck a & g ton and

Mea NicG A eZ le NEE

 

Bookshelf

   

Secret Agent Man

Dan Pinck °46 chronicles his real-life
cloak-and-dagger adventures during
World War II in war-torn China in his
memoir, Journey to Peking: A Secret Agent

in Wartime China.

 

Cuk

With insightful essays—in English and
Spanish—from Cuban scholar Louis A.
Pérez Jr. and renowned Cuban author and
screenwriter Ambrosio Fornet, Cuda:
Picturing Change, introduces the work of
photographer E. Wright Ledbetter 89,
whose images create a captivating portrait

of the changing Cuban culture.

 

 
 
  
  
   

When a dirigible crashed off the coast of
California in 1935, the use of such air-
craft in battle came to an end. ‘Thomas
S. Hook Jr. 49 writes about its history in
Flying Hookers for the Macon: The Last
Great Rigid Airship Adventure.

 

 

 

 

 

 

f an image is worth 1,000 words, then imagine how important
if an

uality of the imag
lv on reproductions to teach their discipline.

e is to art history professors such as George
the q

Bent, who re

“In art history, the image is not used to illustrate text,” says
‘ ”
“The image Is our text.

Bent. . _
des and a slide projector—the traditional

For years, he used sli
ls for teaching art history. The limitations are apparent: It’s time
cools

jsuming to pull slides for each lecture and re-file them, students
ns Sb

co
around light tables to study them and colors

don’t like crowding
fade over time. But, short of
actually visiting muscums all
over the world, it’s the best any
professor could do.

New instructional tech-
nologies, however, are opening
up a wide range of novel possi-
bilities for instructors like Bent.
W&L’s Instructional ‘Technol-
ogy Laboratory has implement-
ed a Web-accessible system,
based partly on free software
developed at James Madison
University, which allows users
to search, retrieve, organize and
teach with digital images pro-
jected onto a screen. ‘Through a
simple-to-use Web interface,
faculty can create, edit, present
and archive digital slide shows
from anywhere, anytime.
Students can tap into the data-
base as well, to prepare for lec-
tures and study for exams.

“It’s a wonderful pedagogical tool,” said Bent. “It’s changing
the way we teach, reducing the prep time needed for lectures, and

it gives us extraordinary flexibility in the classroom.” Over the last

few years, W&L has updated a number of classrooms with touch

TRASH TALK

 
 

Where does campus trash go? Supported by funding from the
Associated Colleges of the South Environmental Initiative and the
Environmental Studies Program, recycling efforts of students, faculty

and st: ave se ; i
d staff have sent almost 60 tons of paper, aluminum cans, plastic

sod: 4 al
: a bottles and glass to recycling centers rather than to the Buena
Ista |< ae A ic ; 1 es
landfill. Kitchen waste, grass trimmings and leaves—10 tons so
al—o- rs, :
5° tO a compost pile on the back campus, where the work of bugs

and microhes cere :
crobes generate the earthy mixture used for planting projects.

From ; , F
left to right—Bill Hamilton, assistant professor of biology; Ryan

Howe s i ‘
‘03; Colin Murphy ‘03; Graham Milam ‘04; Teresa Hanlon, biology

mstructor; and Chad Ellis ‘03 compile that compost.

GEORGE BENT USES DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
FOR A BETTER VIEW OF ART.

 

panels, multimedia equipment, networks and power hookup capa-
bilities, giving faculty access to a wider range of teaching tools.

Bent is the first in the art department to rely on this new tech-
nology, and he’s using only digital images in his classes this year.
Approximately 7,500 images of the department’s 80,000 slides are
stored in the database, and the professor anticipates adding another
4,000 by the end of the school year. While purchased digital images
come with annotations, Bent has arduously categorized images
scanned at W&L by country, culture, style, period and media, as
well as title, creator and creation
: date.
Se ea While the art department
is the heaviest user of this new
technology, other disciplines
have tapped into its capabilities.
Marc Conner, associate profes-
sor of English, has added hun-
dreds of images to the database
to give his Irish Studies stu-
dents a sense of place, while
Jeff Barnett, director of the
Global Stewardship Program,
has added images of cultural or
historical interest to his course’s
Web site.

‘The benefits are substan-
tial: images are clean and crisp,
colors are bright, users can zoom
in on details, two images can be
compared side by side and stu-
dents can access these images
from any computer, anywhere.
“Tt’s an excellent example of how a place like ours can use instruc-
tional technology to ‘spread the classroom,’ if you like, without sac-
rificing all the advantages of direct student-faculty contact,” said
Larry Boetsch °69, provost. “We’re interested in technology that

makes us better able to do what we already do very well.”

 

 

oH E OS: es ae oa ee, eyes a

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University has joined more than 30 private
colleges and universities in signing a friend-of-the-court brief to the

U.S. Supreme Court to affirm, in accordance with Justice Lewis

Powell’s opinion in Regents of the
University of Cahfornia v. Bakke, that
private institutions be allowed to con-
sider race as one of many factors in
admissions decisions.

The brief has been filed in
response to the Supreme Court cases
Grutter v. Bollinger and Gratz v.
Bollinger, in which the University of
Michigan attempted to keep in place
its race-conscious admissions policies.
‘The court heard the cases on April 1,
2003; as of press time for W@L Alumni
Magazine, it had not issued a decision.
‘The amici, or signers, including Washington and
not endorse the University of Michigan’s admissi
as awarding points to minority applicants, nor do
they support quotas or any numerical accounting
in admitting minority students—and, in fact,
oppose these practices. This brief, however, does
strongly support a university’s right to consider
race in admissions to create well-rounded, robust
and diverse classes.

In deciding one of the more significant racial
issues of the last 25 years, the Supreme Court
may rely on this brief, among others, to better
understand the potentially far-reaching ramifica-
tions of its decision. It reaffirms the eloquently
written opinion in Bakke of the late Justice Powell

29, °31L that diversity, including racial diversity,

interests in creating an “atmosphere of speculation, experimenta-

tion, and creation—so essential to the quality of

 

Washington and Lee
Szgns Amicus Brief

Affirming
Justice Powell’s

hakke Decision

Lee University, do

ons practices, such

Justice Powell's opinion in
the Bakke case has been
instrumental in forming

what has become the ideo-

logical foundation of diver-
sity efforts on both college
campuses and in business
nationwide.

serves compelling

and loans.

higher education”;

 

—_

that race may be considered as one of many factors in a narrowly taj_
lored effort to achieve meaningful diversity in higher education; and

that the court should preserve academic freedom and the spirit of

experimentation vital to higher edu.
cation by preserving the ability of col.
leges and universities to consider Tace
as one of many factors when selecting
students for admission.

The amici do not suggest every
college or university must considey
race in the same way, or even at all,
when selecting students for admis.
sion. ‘They do insist, however, that
private, selective colleges and unj-
versities cannot achieve meaningfy]
diversity on their campuses without
continuing to have that admissions

tool at their disposal. They respectfully ask the court to allow them
to continue to follow the course charted in Bakke for the good of

their students, their respective institutions and
the nation.

The constitutional issues in the Michigan
cases have far-reaching implications for all col-
lege admissions programs, as well as the financial]
assistance that higher education institutions
receive from the federal government.

At stake is a university’s ability to use race
lawfully. If this is not permissible, any university
found using race as a consideration would be in
violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act,
which prohibits discrimination on the basis of

race, and would thereby be jeopardizing the

school’s federal funding. W&L, like many private universities,

receives federal financial assistance in the form of student grants

 

 

a

 

Justice Powell’s opinion in the Bakke case has been instrumental
‘n forming what has become the ideological foundation of diversity
efforts on both college campuses and in business nationwide. In
California v. Bakke, Alan Bakke, a white student, challenged the policy
of the University of California at Davis Medical School that reserved 16
of 100 places in the entering class for minorities. Justice Powell cast the
tie-breaking vote invoking the First Amendment to permit the use of
race as a diversity factor, characterized as a “plus factor,” as long as there
are no set-asides or strict numerical quotas. ‘The amici strongly support

the Bakke decision because they feel it allows a workable balance in the

 

Te

CHINESE EXPORT PORCELAIN

in the Reeves Center Collection
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
 
 

Thomas V.

Litzenburg Jr.
in collaboration with
Ann T. Bailey

ylection

With a Preface by ©
David S. Howard

   

he Reeves Center
Collection of Chinese —
Export porcelain is
built around the more than >
1,800 pieces given to the
University by Mr. and Mrs.
Euchlin D. Reeves. :

Spanning three cen-
turies of the China trade,
the collection includes ser-
vices owned by or associat-
ed with George Washington and Robert E. Lee. Color plates of more
than 280 objects from the collection are included in this catalog, each
accompanied by a full technical description, information concerning
form and design and relevant references. The volume also contains chap-
ter introductions, a chronology of dynasties and reigns, a bibliography
and an index.

 

 

 

(Please clip this form and enclose with your order.)

Send copy (copies) of Chinese Export Porcelain in the Reeves Center
Collection at Washington and Lee University to:

 

 

 

Name

Address ee
(please print)

Phone Number:

 

Price per copy—$70 plus $3.10 for postage (\ ek rate). Please allow two to three
weeks for delivery.

Enclose check in the amount of ___ made payable to the “Reeves
Center.” Mail check and order form to: Reeves Center, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Va. 24450. Questions? Please call (540) 458-8744.

 

 

 

consideration of race as one factor while not compromising the integri-
ty or the competitiveness of the admissions process.

Other amici on this brief include American University; Boston
College; Brandeis University; Case Western Reserve University;
Carnegie Mellon University; California Institute of “Technology;
Dickinson College; Emory University; New York University;
Northwestern University; Occidental College; Pepperdine
University; The University of Notre Dame; and Washington
University of St. Louis.

—Thomas White

Creative Act Commutted on Gampus

 

Writer Kurt Vonnegut spoke to a packed house in Lee Chapel on
February 4 as a guest of the Contact Committee. ‘The ambiance was
more comfortable than formal. The 80-year-old’s iconoclasm has
become downright avuncular, yet
his perception no less pungent. His
territory in American letters lies
between the lands of Mark ‘Twain
and Ambrose Bierce, contiguous to
both. Vonnegut’s trademark so-it-
goes sense of humor, which so
eloquently acknowledges the surre-
alism of the human condition,
informed his observations on topics
both timely and timeless. He used a
chalkboard to diagram the plot lines
of several famous literary works
across the centuries, explaining how the dynamics of a story work in
many of the same ways as music. He also encouraged students to com-
mit acts of creativity as often and as lovingly as possible, and entreat-
ed the entire audience to notice and appreciate just how nice things

really are. Vonnegut’s wit and wisdom were a winning combination.
& &
—Patrick Hinely ’73

Senior Named Fulbright Scholar

As a youngster, Patrick Lawler spent weekends playing with a miniature

 

model of the human brain in his father’s research laboratory, where his
passion for science and research were born. By high school, he was work-

ing alongside his father, Dr. Jack Lawler, a pathol-

 
 
  
 
  
  

ogy professor and cancer researcher at
Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel-
Deaconess Hospital in Boston. By early
college, he had co-authored articles in |
medical journals.
As he prepares to graduate, Lawler
will take on his greatest challenge yet as ©
one of a select group of American students
chosen to study abroad as a Fulbright Scholar.
The fellowship will allow the 22-year-old biology
major to continue his scientific work before entering an M.D.-Ph.D. pro-

gram to become a physician and researcher in cardiology.

 

 

7 @ chai wg te es: wowed Si din dk as ees Min @ “at Pa 2

THE COLONNADE

   

 

 

Asa Fulbright Scholar, Lawler will be
a member of a 20-person team of interna-
tional scientists, post-doctoral fellows and
eraduate students undertaking vascular
immunology research in Stockholm,
Sweden.

Lawler’s fascination with heart dis-
ease was sealed one night while he was on
duty with the Lexington rescue squad and
witnessed a woman’s death. “I had never
seen anyone die before,” he said. “I sat in
the parking lot looking at the puddles from
the rain.... I thought about those I knew
and loved. I thought about disease and my
decision to be a doctor. I had a million
questions to ask, but didn’t know who
could answer them.”

Lawler served as editor in chief of the
W&L Joumal of Saence. “My involvement
with the Jowma/ has taught me time and
time again that well-planned research is a
journey,” he said. “First exploring a gap in
current knowledge, then explaining how
the puzzle was solved and finally showing
how the pieces fit together.”

With a W&L education behind him
and a Fulbright Scholarship ahead, Lawler
will no doubt be solving many medical
puzzles of vital importance.

—Ruth S. [ntress

 

A Special Dinner

 

‘The first-ever Shabbat dinner at the
Lee House occurred on March 28.
Partaking in the Jewish tradition, from
left to right: Kemal Levi °04, Leah
Greenberg ’05 and President ‘Tom
Burish.

 

The Lee Chapel Museum at Washington and Lee University received a delightful sy;
prise in March: a $5,000 gift from the Lee-Jackson Education Foundation. Lucie Holland

a member of the foundation’s
board of directors, learned of the
museum’s elementary education
programs and their development
by Amanda Adams 02 after
reading the Winter 2002 issue of
WSL Alumni Magazine. Holland
told her fellow board members
about the programs, which they
called “exactly the type of histo-
ry-rich education effort our foun-
dation would like to support.”
In presenting the gift to
Patricia A. Hobbs, director of Lee
Chapel and its museum, Holland
noted the foundation’s pleasure in
supporting the work done by
Adams and other students as part
of Wo&ls K.E. Lee Research
Scholars program. Adams, who
began working there as a fresh-

man, spent the summer of 2002 tat, fe
PATRICIA HOBBS, LEFT, DIRECTOR O

LEE CHAPEL, ACCEPTS THE AWARD
FROM LUCIE HOLLAND.

 

combining her studies as a history

 

major and her participation in
W&L ss teacher-education program
to develop educational materials aimed at the 5,200 schoolchildren and their teachers who visit
Lee Chapel annually. p

With the assistance of Nan Partlett, director of the teacher-education program, and Ted
DeLaney ’85, associate professor of history, Adams worked with local educators to develop a
teachers’ guide and lesson plans on the history of Lee Chapel and the University. The lesson
| plans examine the life of Robert E. Lee; compare boys’
“We will be launching and girls’ educations in the 19th century to those of
today; and look at John Chavis, who enrolled at the
Lexington college in 1795 and become the first college-
educated African-American in the United States.

the entire program on
the Web so it’s avail-
able to teachers and
students across the Adams is now working at an elementary school in South
country and Carolina.
Ann Bailey Lynn ’03 has continued to broaden the

programs by developing a lesson plan and activities

 

internationally.”

based on character education for third- through seventh-graders. Lynn, a religion major from
Warrenton, Va., drew on W&L’s Honor System in designing hands-on opportunities for school
groups to better understand the vital importance of character and civility in everyday life.
The museum will name another W&L undergraduate researcher to further enhance its
education program. “This summer we will be bringing everything together that Amanda Adams
and Ann Bailey Lynn have done,” said Hobbs. “We will be launching the entire program on the

Web so it’s available to teachers and students across the country and internationally.” *

 

 

 

  

 

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

 

In the late 1980s, the early days of women’s athletics at Washington and
Lee, coach Jan Hathorn instructed the women on the soccer team to
wear sunglasses to the next practice. ‘he bewildered team showed up

as directed. Hathorn (now an assistant athletics director and head coach

of women’s lacrosse) explained
by quoting a popular song of the
era by Timbuk3: “I told them I
wanted them to wear sunglass-
es, because our future is so
bright you gotta wear shades.”
Since their arrival at W&L

in 1985, women have fulfilled Hathorn’s prediction. “We have excep-
tional female athletes,” said Mike Walsh, director of athletics. “They

have been dedicated and committed and are as talented as their male

counterparts.”

The first barometer of success for any athletic
team is wins, and the women’s teams have enjoyed a
sfeat many. Entering the 2002-03 school year, they
have compiled an all-time record of 1120-663-10
(627) and captured 53 conference championships in

eight different sports, and 57 women have gained All-
America recognition.

For 1985-86, the first year of coeducation, the

Uni I | . =~ .
versity Athletic Committee offered women four

Ss etek: i
Ports at the varsity level. Cross country, golf, swim-

min Se
£ and tennis initially comprised walk-ons from the

107 women in the stude

nt body. The committee chose
the four sports be

cause of their individual and team

W&L’'S Female Athletes

Faster, Higher, Stronger

Rack Up the Records

nature so W&L could compete with few athletes on each team, and
those few could have a chance to advance to the national championships.
At the same time, the athletic department also decided it was time

to introduce its first female staff member, Cinda Rankin. An assistant

director of athletics, she was
responsible for coordinating
the women’s programs and

“Think
how few people get the oppor-

recruiting athletes.

tunity to do something from

scratch,” said Rankin. “I was

drawn to the position because I could be part of starting something from
the ground floor.” At first, men coached women’s sports.

‘The first year was rough, with a 2-22 overall record. Also, “we had

some trouble with golf,” said Rankin. “We couldn’t get any matches

“Think how few people get
the opportunity to do
something from scratch.
| was drawn to the position
because | could be part of
starting something from
the ground floor.”

—CINDA L. RANKIN,

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR
INTERCOLLEGIATE PROGRAM

against Division III teams in Virginia, and we couldn’t
play a match against the Division I schools.” The
problem was further compounded by NCAA regula-
tions that Division III schools must sponsor at least
four sports for each gender. ‘Therefore, if W&L didn’t
play a golf match, its men’s teams wouldn’t qualify for
the NCAA Division Ill Championships.

‘The answer was a freshman named Alston
Parker 89 (now Alston Parker Watt). In 1986, she
played against a male competitor from Bridgewater
College, thus allowing W&L to list golf as a varsity
co-ed sport.

“T was nota golfer, but I decided to do it to help

 

 

 

nd bas WE aS U Min: 1

Mao Ae Ge Aes ie Nee

 

out,” said Parker Watt, who had played lacrosse in high school. “They

needed a woman to play so I just decided to do it. I knew by doing
that, the other sports could benefit.” “The NCAA later granted W&L
a waiver that allowed them to dip below the four-sports rule, and
women’s golf disappeared.

‘The three-woman swimming team finished its first campaign
0-9 but showed tremendous promise. Freshman Elizabeth Miles
Muitzlaff 89 qualified for the NCAA Championships and earned All-
America honors in the 50 and 1650 freestyle. ‘Ten years after gradua-
tion, she became the first distaff member of the Athletics Hall of
Fame. But that first season, things were tough. “We didn’t even have
enough girls to fill out a relay team,” Miles Mitzlaff said.

‘The women also had to deal with resentment from some mem-
bers of the men’s squad. “At first they didn’t even want a girl swim-
ming in their lane,” she said. “As time went by, things started to calm
down, and by my sophomore year, the guys and girls from the swim-
ming team were hanging out together away from the pool.”

By the second year, W&L had eight women swimming in the Cy
‘Twombly Pool, one of them Parker Watt. “We had some great swim-
mers that first year, like Elizabeth, but we were still losing,” she said.
“We were giving up a lot of points in several events.” Parker Watt, who
went on to serve on W& Ls Board of ‘Irustees, even took a turn on the
diving board. “I was not a great diver. . . . | just did it because I want-
ed to. | knew we had these fantastic swimmers who kept losing, so I
wanted to help.”

As the four varsity sports struggled through their initial seasons,
Rolf Piranian, head men’s soccer coach, offered his help to Rankin.
“We looked at both soccer and field hockey,” she said. “We had heard
that field hockey interest was going down and that soccer was on the
rise. We decided that soccer would be added, and Rolf approached me
to state that he would coach the team as a club sport if I could find 15
women interested in playing.”

Piranian spent the spring of 1986 coaching 25 women, nearly a
quarter of the female enrollment at W&L. Many women showed up

for soccer during those pre-sorority days; they had few other social out-

GENERALS’ REPORT

  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  

lets. He coached the soccer team for two seasons 1n preparation for th
first varsity season in 1987. “No doubt, it was one.of the most enjoy
able experiences I’ve had,” he said. “I was taken aback by the enthy
siasm they displayed. We didn’t have many skilled players, but the
worked extremely hard and were very receptive to what we wer
teaching them. ‘Those were two very good years.”

By 1987, with competitive levels improving, it was time to hj
the first female coach: Jan Hathorn. She had coached field hockey an
women’s lacrosse at Denison University in Ohio. W&L hired her
women’s soccer and women’s lacrosse. She had been extremely sy
cessful at Denison and was unfazed about assuming command.

“Taking over a program from its inception wasn’t a worry for me
she said. “I wasn’t at all concerned about the players’ level of exp
ence. I wanted to coach on the East Coast and I thought that We
was the perfect place to build excellent programs.” Hathorn’s first soe
cer team went just 2-8-3, but she detected signs that the progre
would not struggle for long. For one, recruiting helped. “I just sold
characteristics of the school,” she said. “About 95 percent of my co
versations were about the academic programs. Recruiting was lik
catching a wave at the beach—you wait until the right one com
along, and then you ride it as far as it can take you.” For another, th
students were committed.

By the fourth year, the Generals’ women’s soccer team had pre
duced their first winning season. “Successes came quickly, pz
because the girls were working extremely hard to improve,” note
Hathorn. “Athletics were a way for the girls to socialize and get aw:
from the stress of classes.”

‘The 1988-89 school year brought even more expansion for the
program. With swimming and cross country already having produc d
Old Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) championships,
University added volleyball, lacrosse and track, increasing the ove
offering to nine sports. Susan Dittman arrived to head up the voll
ball program, while John ‘Tucker and Norris Aldridge handled trac
and field.

 

~*~ eens ee fe 8 and

<a oem

 

ie.

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

 

cE WOMEN’S TENNIS TEAM HAS WON
13 ODAC CHAMPIONSHIPS.

 

The fall of 1989 also brought change.
After overseeing the successful addition of
women’s athletics, Bill McHenry stepped
down as athletic director, and the school
hired Mike Walsh. With the Generals begin-
ning to earn the respect of their ODAC
peers, Walsh sought to change the coaching
structure of the women’s programs.

“I was fortunate when I arrived .. . that
all the pieces of the puzzle were in place,” he
said. “They had a good plan for what sports
they wanted to offer. We had good coaches

on board and the administration made sure

we had the funds necessary to put together

 

good schedules, excellent facilities and sup-
port. With the backing of the administration,
we began to increase the number of coaching
positions dedicated to women’s sports.”

Among Walsh’s first moves was to
appoint Rankin as women’s tennis coach and
to add positions, including an intern coaching
program similar to the men’s, to help the
head coaches with recruiting and coaching.
In 1991, Kiki Jacobs, the third full-time
woman coach, took over the women’s swim-
ming program and has since guided the
Generals to school-record win totals and
numerous ODAC championships.

In 1991, the women’s basketball pro-
gram began. “A group of women approached
Mike [Walsh] and told him they were inter-
ested in starting a club team,” said W&L
history professor Barry Machado. “Mike
mentioned that I might be interested in
helping them out. They showed up at my
office shortly thereafter and we got started.”
‘The rest was, well, history.

Machado received assistance from Earl
Edwards, a member of University computing
and a former captain of the Generals’ men’s
basketball team. “Earl did yeoman’s work for
two years,” he said. “He helped drive the vans
on the road and was at nearly every practice.”

Machado credits the young women and
their desire to compete for the addition of

women’s basketball as a varsity sport in 1993.

Ra

Year Varsity Sport

 

  

1985-86 Swimming
1985-86 Cross Country
1985-86 ‘Tennis
1985-86 Golf

1987-88 Soccer
1988-89 Volleyball
1988-89 Lacrosse
1988-89 Outdoor Track
1988-89 Indoor Track
1993-94 Basketball
1999-00) Riding
2000-01 Field Hockey
‘Totals

Ole that the records do not reflect 2002-03 records, but the ODAC Championships do.

Ast Year
a
iS

ee

oo

1611
7-8

32

nee

oo

4-8
45-69-3 (.397)

3 140-92-9 (.600) L, 2002-03
274-144 (.656)
oie)
“17-17-1 (500) ~ 4, 1989-90
89-130 (.406) None
 - None

None

53

7-18 (.280)
1120-663-10 (.627)

15, 1968-89

—————

— -6,1995-96
5, 1991-92

5, 1989-90

“The initiative came from the girls,” he said.
“They demonstrated that their enthusiasm
was not a passing fancy that first year. All you
had to do was show them that what they were
doing meant something to you, and they
would run through a wall for you.”

‘loday, W&L offers 11 varsity sports for
women, with the addition of equestrian in
1999 and field hockey in 2000. With the soccer
team winning its first ODAC championship in
fall 2002, every sport but basketball, field
hockey and equestrian has claimed at least
one league title. It probably won’t be long
until every sport has tasted that success.

Every woman competitor—a list too long
to mention—has had a hand in the success
and continuing growth of women’s sports at
W&L. They seem to have benefited from
the program as much as the University has.
“Athletics enhanced my college experience
tremendously,” said Josephine Schaeffer
Covington °96, who earned numerous All-
America accolades for her performances in
cross country and track and received the
prestigious NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship.
“T can’t imagine college without the compe-
tition,” she concluded. “It was one of the
most positive experiences of my life.”

With the past and present so bright and
the future just as shiny, the female athletes
will have to keep their shades handy.

—Brian Laubscher

  

 

n g

t

O

 

K cnc MMSE in

n and

IMS AS Ge Aer Zs ie.

 

Karen Donegan Salter ’85L
believes that good things come
from conversation. For most of
her professional career, she has
been involved in non-judicial
dispute resolution, particularly
in the area of racial reconcilia-
tion. It would not be unusual to
find her sitting at a conference
table in her home city of
Richmond, facilitating a dis-
cussion between, say, mem-
bers of the NAACP and the
Sons of Confederate Veterans.
But she also believes that
“talking can only take you so
far in achieving justice.”
Eventually, she says, “you
need to do something.” ‘That
notion hit her a year ago when,
for the second or third time,
she saw a news article about
the deplorable condition of his-
toric black cemeteries in
Richmond. “Pd been reading
about this and saying to myself,
‘Somebody ought to do some-
thing.’ But then I would let it
drop and time would pass. So
last July, I called 50 people I
thought might grab a pick or a
shovel and come out to help.”
‘Twenty-five people, many
of them from St. Andrew’s
Episcopal Church, where Salter
is a member, showed up for the
first

Saturday cleanup at

Evergreen Cemetery, the private, eastside graveyard where many promi-
nent Richmond African-Americans were buried from near the turn of the
century until around World War II. Several more work sessions followed,
and by the end of the year, nearly 50 people, black and white, young and

old, had heeded Salter’s call for weed pullers, lawn mowers, trash gather-

ers, tree trimmers and underbrush cutters. Her hus-
band, Steve, and son, Conor, 6, are two of her most
dependable crew members.

‘Their labors have uncovered and spruced up a
beautiful section of Evergreen. “The work 1s
blessed,” Salter says. “We could tell from the first day.
An awful lot of the people buried in the section where
we are working were born into slavery. Many of the
monuments have beautiful African icons on them. We

find it very inspiring. ‘The place is hallowed ground.”

Deeds,

Labor of Love

Preserve Historic Cemetery

 

“Talking can only take
you so far in achieving
justice. Eventually, you

need to do something.”

—KAREN DONEGAN
SALTER ’85L

Not Words,

 

ae

One of the graves at
Evergreen is that of Maggie Lu
Walker (1867-1934), the first
woman in the U.S. to found a
bank and serve as a bank pres-
ident. (A_ high schoo]
Richmond _ is

in
Named — for
Walker, her home is a Nationa}
Historic Site and her gravesite
has been tended over the
years.) Also buried in the
cemetery 1s John Mitchel] Jr.
(1863-1929), a newspaper edi-
tor and politician who was an
important figure in early 20th-
century Richmond.

Salter coordinates the
crews’ work in conjunction
with the Virginia Roots project
run by Veronica Davis. Davis is
the author of the book Her |
Lay My Burdens Down: A
History of the Black Cemeteries of
Richmond, Virginia (Dietz Press,
2003).

Although no __ public
funds are available to maintain
Evergreen, cleanup crews
have been augmented on
occasion by men who have
been sentenced to perform
community service after their
convictions for minor crimes.
“So it’s a real mix,” Salter says.
In racial reconciliation, she
adds, “the whole point is t0

and work

come together

together and establish relationships. You don’t always have to engage
the hard stuff, the disputes, head on. Sometimes we can just pull weeds
and do good work together.”

Salter says her career path was influenced by the mediation class
she took from W&L law professors Andrew W. “Uncas” McThenia 58,

°63L, and Thomas L. Shaffer. After law school, she
practiced for two years at Hunton & Williams, in
Richmond. Next came a five-year term as executive
director of the Dispute Resolution Center, which was
co-sponsored by the Virginia State Bar and the Better
Business Bureau. Then, about a decade age, she
began her own dispute resolution business. She has
taught mediation at the Law School as an adjunct pro

72 a jon
fessor and every fall runs a mediation training Sess

- - ynar
as part of the negotiation and mediation sem

 

 

 

eht by Lawrence H. Hoover, adjunct pro-
raught D)

fessor of law.
Salter lov |

k with students, and to visit with her former

Mary Zanolli Natkin ’85L, clinical

roommate,
fessor of law at W&L, as well as with

es coming back to Lexington to

wor

yeni and his wife, Anne. “I worked with

: Uncas all three

“You don't always have to years at law
engage the hard stuff, the school, and he
disputes, head on. read at our wed-

‘mes we can just pull ding. He taught
weeds and do good me how to be a

work together.” good lawyer, but

more important-

ly. by word and deed, he taught me to be a
Rind. authentic, courageous human being.
That, of course, is a work in progress and not a
finished product,” Salter says. “That W&L
mediation course gave me my life’s work and
Uncas put a lot of life into that work.”

In April, when she was interviewed for
this story, Salter was gearing up for Evergreen’s
first Saturday cleanup of 2003. She says she
expects no less luck this year attracting a crew,
but admits that volunteers alone cannot be
expected to keep the cemetery in good shape.
“Sooner or later we’re going to need an infusion
of cash,” she says.

Fora skilled attorney who has devoted her
career to getting people to talk, Karen Salter
also knows that sometimes action speaks loud-

er than words. —Jim Raper

Law School SI

Once again, Washington and Lee Univ-
ersity’s School of Law is ranked among the
nation’s top 20 law programs by U.S.News @
World Report. This year the Law School is
ranked 19th in the country.

“The indicators used by U.S. News that
bear on the quality of student life and the
quality of legal education are extremely
favorable to Washington and Lee,” said
Dean David F. Partlett. “The hard work of
the Law School bears fruit in these rankings
and in many other ways.”
| W&L ranks second only to Yale and is
ea with the University of Chicago in its
impressive student-to-faculty ratio of 10.8:1,

 

Supreme Gourt Swearing-In

 

Robert Grey ’76L, the president-elect nominee of the American Bar Association,
moved the admission of the latest group of Washington and Lee alumni to the bar of
the U.S. Supreme Court on Feb. 26, 2003. The evening before, professors Shaun
Shaughnessy and Brian Murchison spoke to the group about the two cases that were
argued to the court—Dow Chemical Co. v. Stephenson and Roell v. Withrow—following
the swearing-in ceremony. John Falk ’86, ’90L organized the dinner at the Army and
Navy Club. ‘The next group admission will occur on Jan. 26, 2004, and will be open to

50 alumni.

 

reflecting the Law School’s extraordinary com-

| N mitment to an outstanding teaching faculty.

| “-_ USNews The new rankings also show the W&L
ener Law School’s strength in attracting and gradu-
ating exceptionally strong students, with
about one in five applicants accepted for
enrollment. Nearly 88 percent of W&L
students immediately pass the Virginia State
Bar exam.

“We are fortunate to have a highly qual-
ified applicant pool,” said Sidney Evans, asso-
ciate dean for student services. “Our appli-
- ) cants come from all parts of the country and at
0) Sei ae least half have worked for a year or more
between college and law school.”

 

 

Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States

Photo by Terry Royal:

Thomas P. Callanis joins Washington and Lee this fall as associate professor of law, associ-
ate professor of history and founding director of the Center for Law and History (CLH), an inter-
disciplinary initiative to encourage and support the study of law in its historical context.

With its own cluster of legal historians already at W&L, namely Maureen Cavanaugh, Roger
Groot, Louise Halper and David Millon, the Law School was poised to establish a formal program.
“Taw schools are increasingly interdisciplinary,” explained Gallanis. “They want to expand the rela-
tionship between legal study and scholarship in the arts and sciences. With respect to the historical
development of laws and legal institutions, W&L already has a tremendous amount of talent in the
Law School and in the College that makes it possible to take this next step.”

More than a dozen W&L profes-

sors of art, classics, English, history,

GALLANIS TO HEAD NEW
CENTER FOR LAW AND HISTORY

philosophy, religion, Romance lan-
guages and sociology have already
demonstrated through their research
and teaching a sustained scholarly
interest in the intersection of law and
history. he CLH now offers them
the opportunity to work more closely
with each other, with colleagues in
the Law School and with top-flight
scholars from all over the world. “We
have a vibrant, intellectual communi-
ty at W&L,” said Gallanis. “People
here have substantial scholarly repu-
tations. Visiting scholars will want to
travel to W&L to engage our faculty
in the ongoing process of discussion
and feedback so necessary to all
research projects.”

Students, both undergraduate
and law, will also benefit. “I want the
intellectual energy of the faculty to
carry over to our students,” he

explained. “I hope the Center will be
THOMAS P. GALLANIS IS EAGER
TO GET STUDENTS, FACULTY
AND VISITING SCHOLARS TOGETHER.

another way for faculty to reach out
and include students in exciting inter-
disciplinary work.”

Gallanis holds legal and academic degrees from Yale, the University of Chicago and St. John’s
College, Cambridge University. His most recent teaching post was associate professor of law and his-
tory at Ohio State University, where he has been since 1997.

His vision for the Center includes sponsoring an annual legal history lecture, and he notes
that one of the pre-eminent scholars in this area, J.H. Baker, Downing Professor of the Laws of
England, Cambridge University, England, is slated to give the inaugural lecture in September.
Another component is a series of legal history workshops featuring a discussion of a visiting schol-
ar’s work in progress. The four legal historians scheduled for the 2003-04 workshops are consid-
ered among the best in the field. Finally, he plans to promote and enhance the Law School’s col-
lection of primary sources for legal history, making W&L one of the country’s major repositories
for legal-historical materials.

“We have a superb collection of primary sources already, including the papers of U.S. Supreme
Court Justice Lewis Powell and a series of English trial accounts from the 18th century,” explained
Gallanis. “W&L is an ideal place to study and teach legal history. I’m delighted to be here.”

—Louise Uffelman

 

 

First Annual Powell Lecture

 

On March 31, 2003, a day before the US.
Supreme Court heard arguments challenging
the admissions processes at the University of
Michigan, ‘The Hon. Alberto R. Gonzales,
White House Counsel and former justice of
the ‘Texas Supreme Court, arrived on the
W&L campus to deliver the University’s first
annual Lewis F Powell Jr. Lecture.

Created and run by Law School stu-
dents, the lecture series is named in honor
of the late Supreme Court Justice Powell
’29, °31L, who played an important role dur-
ing his 15 years as a consensus builder on
the court. Given the contentious issues
argued before his court—the death penalty,
affirmative action and abortion—Powell’s
ability to strike a balance between compet
ing interests is one of the landmarks of his
judicial career.

Sanford Hooper ’97, ’03L, one of the
students responsible for establishing the
lecture series, said, “We chose Gonzales
because as counsel to the President, he is
one of the most important and influential
lawyers in the country. It didn’t hurt that
Gonzales is being mentioned as a possible
Bush nominee to the Supreme Court.”

Gonzales holds different views about
diversity on college campuses than Bush,
but he espoused the administration's posi-
tion during his talk, saying that “Bush
believes in diversity in admissions and hir-
ing, but that institutions should use race-
neutral methods first.”

The Powell Lecture Series, which
receives financial support from W&LS
Executive Committee and the dean’s office
of the School of Law, will bring pre-eminent
legal scholars to campus annually to address

leading issues of the day. *

 

Mi Ae G@ (AS 2s Pees

  

ing Iradition at Washington and Lee

 

by

lays following Sept. 11, 2001, inspired many of the citizenry. Even in this day of earphones and cell
Vashington and Lee family to return to phones, of hurried schedules and avoidance of eye
n, if only via the Internet. And no wonder. At contact, Lexington remains a place where people pause
nen everything about our world seemed to be to acknowledge strangers and friends alike. No doubt an
yn, the W&L community huddled together essential factor that assures such an amiable atmosphere
pace. Alumni and friends of the University is the long-standing speaking tradition that is the

‘ to each other in a safe and civil place, much prevalent practice at Washington and Lee University.
lave since the days of Robert E. Lee. Roger Mudd ’50, who later went on to a celebrated
Lexington may be among the most civil career in broadcast journalism, arrived at W&L as a sea-
this planet. The simplest of courtesies, one soned World War II veteran in 1946. He soon recognized

ceting another, has become as fundamental to that the speaking tradition and the University’s Honor

exington as breathing for a significant segment System had a wide-ranging, positive effect on campus.

HIS TENURE AS PRESIDENT FROM 1865 TO 1870, ROBERT E. LEE ENCOURAGED AN
TERE OF COURTESY AT WASHINGTON COLLEGE THAT EVOLVED INTO THE SPEAKING TRADITION.

 

“You ... felt that because relationships were on a civil level, that that
made life easier,” he said in 1996. In a term paper he wrote for his
American civilization course in 1950, “The Washington and Lee

Gentleman,” Mudd explained:

More apparent than the Honor System to the casual observer is the
display of genuine courtesy and hospitality. ‘This whole notion,
which has existed at Washington and Lee since Gen. Lee’s time,
is a codification of the Southern cult of manners. At the University
of Virginia, where students speak only to those to whom they have
been formally introduced, a more aristocratic feeling prevails. In
Lexington, college men are expected to greet all students, VMI
cadets, professors and visitors. ‘he speaking rule is as staunchly
defended as the Honor System. ‘The Washington and Lee gentle-
man never fails to take pride when he hears a guest say,
“Everybody 1s so friendly here.” And nothing is more irritating to
the genteel student than to be greeted by a blank stare.

Many alumni interviewed for Come Cheer for Washington and Lee:
The University at 250 Years clearly remembered the speaking tradition.
Dan Wooldridge ’51, who arrived as a freshman in 1947, chose W&L

because when he had visited the campus,

Every student spoke to me and it felt like I was home, and that
suited me just fine. You spoke to everyone on the campus. It
didn’t make any difference if he was, for example, the chief jus-
tice of the Supreme Court, who did visit... And it didn’t make
any difference whether it was the local janitor or some gas sta-
tion attendant, or a truck driver or a fellow student. If they were
on the campus, you spoke. You said, “Hi there” or “Good morn-

ing” or “How you doing?”

 

A GROUP OF W&L STUDENTS CIRCA 1920 LOOK AS POLITE AND WELL-DRESSED AS PRESIDENT LEE COULD

Documentation of the probable origin of the speaking traditi
oe ge 10n
at Washington and Lee is primarily anecdotal and demonstrates th
S

power of a charismatic personality—in this case, Robert E Lem
. es,

| one Wel-
coming every student individually. Frederick A. Berlin 1869 wh
> Who

Rather than being an aloof administrator, Lee made a point of

was a student during Lee’s administration, recalled in 1929 that he
did “not remember ever passing him [Lee] upon the street Or on the
campus at Lexington but that he stopped and spoke to me often
about some commonplace matter, but just enough to show Me that
he knew I was a student there and that I was one of his wards in the
college, and enough to assure me that he felt an interest in me as he
did in all the other boys.”

Practicing such a high degree of civility was of the utmost
importance to Lee as he transformed himself from a military hero
into an educator of the future leaders of a country still bleeding from
the Civil War. He stressed that he was training students for Civilian
life. He also provided a high-profile illustration of how to
maintain peace in the future. Lee used the most basic form
of human communication—simply greeting those he met by
name—to inspire a community where people would care about each
other enough to prevent violence similar to what he had just
endured on the battlefield.

On Oct. 13, 1870, the day after Lee died, the faculty observed
that “his wonderful influence over the minds of the young, and his
steady and earnest devotion to duty, made the College spring, as by
the touch of magic, from its depressions after the War. . .. He was

>

gentle, courteous, and considerate.” As the president of
Washington College, Lee consciously shunned the kind of regula-
tions one might expect from the graduate and former superinten-
dent of West Point. “We have no printed rules,” Lee told a new

arrival, John B. Collyar. “We have but one rule here, and it is that

ASK-

 

 

 

 

  

tudent must be a gentleman.” Collyar
he “did not, until after years,

every

admitted later that , .
he comprehensiveness of his

fully realize ¢ |
d how completely it covered every

n
remark, a
hat should govern the con-

ential rule t

ess F
d intercourse of men.

duct an
The students, many of whom were veter-

ans of the Confederate Army, idolized Lee.
They strove to please him by becoming the
gentlemen he believed them to be. Samuel
H. Chester 1872 recalled that “the influence
of [Lee’s] character was with us cone as
a stimulus to what is good and a restraint from
things of which we knew he would not
approve. He used to say that ne placed no
emphasis on rules and regulations beyond
this, that a student’s stay in the institution
depended on whether he knew how to
conduct himself as a gentleman.”

The relationship between Lee’s uncom-

monly mannerly behavior and what came to be known as the
speaking tradition remains a matter of speculation. Perhaps the
students strove to emulate the courtesy Lee showed to them by
extending their own friendly greetings to fellow students. The
transition from what seems to have been customary behavior
during Robert E. Lee’s tenure into a sometimes harshly enforced

rule was so gradual that it apparently never warranted mention

in official records.

Certainly the trustees left no doubt that they wanted Lee’s
influence to be memorialized in numerous ways. When Lee died
in 1870, the name of the institution was immediately changed

from Washington College to Washington
and Lee University. The chapel built during
his tenure was named Lee Memorial
Chapel, and plans were begun to enshrine
his memory there. (The result was the dra-
matic recumbent statue of Lee asleep on his
camp bed by sculptor Edward Valentine.)
The trustees also chose Lee’s oldest son,
Custis, to succeed him.

The next president to follow the elder Lee’s
example with vigor was George Hutcheson
Denny, who assumed the presidency in 1902.
Even after he left Washington and Lee,
Denny gave several addresses to audiences
‘found Virginia and around the country.
Despite their ostentatious language, the lec-
tures reveal that Lee’s influence was still
‘tong more than 3() years after his death.
~The alumni of
declared, “cherish their enthusiasm for his

lead : . :
ership, with an ardor that is undiminished,

[Lee’s] period,” Denny

With a devotion th

, at beggars all description,
With a zeal that cl

1allenges all comparison.”

 

 

BOOKS. SOME THINGS NEVER CHANGE.

Like Lee, Denny strove to know each student by name and
took an active interest in his academic and social accomplish-
ments. As with Lee, Denny’s enthusiasm was contagious. Not
long after Denny left, the general friendliness on campus paid off
handsomely for the University.

According to the story that seems as much legend as fact, in about
1910 a New York couple, Robert P. and Jessie Raymond Doremus,

came to Lexington as tourists and decided to visit W&L. An uniden-

In Lexington, college
men are expected to
greet all students, VMI
cadets, professors and
visitors. The speaking
rule is as staunchly
defended as the Honor
System. The
Washington and Lee

gentleman never fails

to take pride when he
hears a guest say,
“Everybody is so
friendly here.”

ROGER MUDD °’50

tified student greeted them and offered to show them around the
campus. According to the lore, the student abandoned his books on
the lawn, confident that because of the school’s Honor System, no

one would disturb his belongings. Everyone
they met greeted the Doremuses cordially.
Several years later and out of the blue, Mrs.
Doremus promised $75,000—a hefty sum at
the time—to build a much-needed gymnasium
as a memorial to her husband, who had died a
few years after their visit, and as a tribute to
the unknown but courteous student who had
shown them around the campus.

Whether the behavior of the Doremuses’
unidentified guide was inspired by his own
friendly nature or a codified rule is unclear from
records of the time. Perhaps their largesse
sparked a realization among the University’s
administrators that raising students’ awareness
of each other as individuals could, over time,
become an advantageous development tool.
As students matured, graduated and achieved
successful careers, they would remember fond-
ly the strong bonds they established on campus
and want to encourage the continuation of this
culture of civil and courteous behavior.

In 1932, the school credited Robert E. Lee

 

 

 

GOVERNED BY A CODE OF CIVILITY. STUDENT
LIFE AT WASHINGTON AND LEE IN THE 1910s
INVOLVED GOOFING AROUND AND HITTING THE

 

ATTENDEES AT A FRESHMAN CAMP LEARNED ABOUT THE SPEAKING TRADITION
AND OTHER W&L CUSTOMS OVER BOTTLES OF GRAPETTE SODA.

for having “fixed the traditions of chivalry, courtesy and personal
honor on the campus, which have become distinguishing charac-
teristics of Washington and Lee,” according to a bulletin mailed
to all parents and prospective students. ‘The bulletin implied
that the University had achieved a near-Utopian status where
“there are no campus hostilities and new students are not objects
of ill-treatment.” Potential students were assured that “unvarying
courtesy to everyone, including not only fellow-students but
even transient visitors, 1s the long-standing and unique tradition
of Washington and Lee.”

Further affirmation that people appreciated the custom of speaking
to visitors came in a letter to President Gaines “from a distin-
guished physician of the middle west,” published in the July 1939
Alumm Magazine. ‘Vhe unnamed doctor marveled that “every young
man who is a member of your University, seeing I was a stranger, with
all the dignity and spirit of your school, when he met me at the walk,
said ‘Good morning, Sir.’ ” He noted that he had also visited the
University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, and William and Mary,
in Williamsburg, but only in Lexington did he enjoy “such a very
unusual, gracious and elegant experience.”

In the 1930s, the tradition gathered steam. Dean of Students
Frank Gilliam °17 instituted Freshman Camp as “an opportu-
nity to get to Know each other, to bond and also to have lectures
explaining a little about the school and what it was going to be like,”
said Charlie Rowe °45, ’50L. “You wore nametags,” he remembered,
“and at the end of the three-day period they had a contest to see who
could remember the most names in the class, which of course . . . was
very helpful in enabling you to know people on campus. By the time
I finished my freshman year, I bet you I knew 95 percent of the

people on campus by name
including middle names of mal
of them.”

Sometime in the early 20th cen-
tury, the speaking tradition deterio-
rated from a pleasant custom Into an
edict enforced, sometimes brutally
first by the Vigilance Commigl
and later by the Assimilation
Committee. Students rap both
organizations. In 1935 the reign of
the Vigilance Committee came to
an end. “The terror of freshmen
and delight of some old men” had
been in effect for many years, but
“no one seems to know just how
long,” reported the Alumni
Magazine. ‘The era of bodily abuse
such as paddling as punishment for
breaches of Washington and Lee
traditions would cease with the
installation of the Assimilation
Committee in place of the Vigilance
Committee. The article promised:

Under the assimilation plan, no physical punishment will be
inflicted on freshmen for any reason whatever. ‘The new men,
however, are required to wear the familiar little blue caps with
white buttons on them; are required to speak to each other and to
all students and faculty members 1n keeping with tradition; and
are asked to wear conventional clothing, which includes a ban on
sweaters and other wearing apparel not becoming to a Washington

and Lee Gentleman.

Nevertheless, in 1936 Lea Booth ’40 fell victim to upperclassmen
of the Assimilation Committee who had not yet embraced the
new organization’s purportedly more civilized methods. He lost his
freshman beanie, and for the offense underwent a severe and bloody
paddling. “It was the worst form of hazing you ever saw,” he remem
bered in 1997. “That was disgraceful. Thank God that Washington
and Lee doesn’t have an Assimilation Committee now.”

Unlike the earlier years, when the speaking tradition merely
encouraged a courteous awareness and respect for others, the rule of
the Vigilance and Assimilation Committees transformed the speaking
tradition into a sometimes dreaded obligation. “I remember thinking
when I was a beanie-wearing freshman that speaking to fellow stt«
dents, faculty and complete strangers was nice, especially wi
encountering them individually or in easily handled small group»
recalled Frank Parsons ’54, but it became “a real pain in the ass try-
ing to speak to every damn student you passed on the Colonnade
during class changes.” (Indeed, since paddling was a favored punish
ment, Parsons’ description is more than just figurative.)

During the 1960s, though, the influence of the Assimilation

+: tually
Committee underwent a year-by-year erosion until it even

 

  

 

 

disappeared. Lexington was not
isolated from the rest

tely
however. “The tradi-

the world, :
iffered greatly during the

and student rebellion

of
tion St
Vietnam cf
nst the mil
lishment, remembered Parsons,
Sho made his career as a W&L
“No one spoke to

itary-industrial estab-
agal :

administrator.
anybody, but exchanged surly looks

instead, flashed the peace sign or, in

some instances, only half of the

peace sign.” eee

For those who lived with it, the
speaking tradition had a long-term
impact on their lives. In 1947, AWanta
Journal reporter George Goodwin ’39
was trying to prove cases of voter fraud
in a contested election in ‘Telfair
County, Georgia. He had failed to turn
up satisfactory evidence and was about
to leave the county when his big break
came. In best W&L tradition, he
spoke to a local man in passing. ‘The man responded, “I know why
you're here,” and gave the reporter the leads he needed for his inves-
tigation. Goodwin got not only his story but the 1948 Pulitzer Prize
for local reporting as well. “That man wouldn't have spoken to me if
| hadn’t spoken to him first,” Goodwin acknowledged. “Speaking to
strangers was just as much a part of my training at Washington and
Lee as the things | learned in my journalism classes. It certainly
opened a door for me that day.”

‘Today, the speaking tradition has reverted to being a matter of
custom, not rule. Not everyone is pleased by this development.
Looking at his student years from 1957 to 1961 “through rose-
colored glasses,” Holt Merchant Jr., professor of history, remembers
that everyone really did speak to each other then. The modern
version of the speaking tradition “sometimes makes me angry,
sometimes it makes me sad,” he said. Too many times students
approaching him seem to be gazing at “something of extreme
interest about three feet over my head,” and ignore his greeting.

Kara Coen ’04 shares his sentiments. She recently lamented in
The Ring-tum Phi that “the verbal apathy that is destroying our
Speaking tradition . . . seems to go unnoticed and needs to be
addressed.” She implored her fellow students “to speak up and
Preserve the gentility that has been a way of life at Washington
and Lee since time immemorial.”

Others disagree. In an effort to gain a better understanding
- me widely publicized high level of student satisfaction with
W > Kelli Austin 03 conducted a survey. She hypothesized a
Possible link with the speaking tradition. Of her respondents,
89 percent said it is their habit to speak to those they encounter
en campus and in Lexington.

Her findings are similar to those of Julie Kelley ’02, whose senior

thesis ‘ 1 . ew
* €Xamined current usage of the speaking tradition. She

 

concluded that “the speaking tradition is
not, in fact, in decline.” She took heart in
discovering that along with the Honor
System, the speaking tradition is “less
changing than evolving, allowing them to
remain the heart and soul of Washington
and Lee University.”

And so it came as no surprise that the
enormous traumas the United States
suffered on Sept. 11, 2001, caused
many to return to that kinder, gentler
Washington and Lee community.
Almost immediately, the University’s
administration devoted a section of its
Web site to a place where alumni and
friends could report in. Approximately
1,500 alumni lived and worked in
Manhattan in 2001, many on Wall
Street or in the World ‘Irade Center,
and still others worked at the
Pentagon, so concern for their welfare
was widespread. While the actual
number of W&L alumni lost in the
tragedy was small, worries about the potential for much higher
numbers were widespread.

Numerous eyewitness reports on the Web site made the tragedy
all the more real to members of the W&L community throughout the
world. ‘There seemed to be a compelling need to monitor the site in
order to keep up with reports on the well-being of friends and class-
mates. Greetings and reassurances 1n cyberspace seemed to take the
speaking tradition to a new, 21st-century place.

While it is probably impossible to determine exactly when the
speaking tradition became so well established that it warranted being
called a tradition, the day-to-day benefits of the custom are still with
us. Perhaps the evolution was so gradual that the evidence rests with
alumni long gone. Certainly, the answer is intertwined with the rise
and success of the University’s Honor System, which confirms Lee’s
assertion that “We have but one rule here, and it is that every student
must be a gentleman.” Whether a precise solution to the mystery 1s
ever determined, it is heartening to know there are people in a small
town in rural Virginia who cherish and cultivate civil behavior more

than most, simply by saying “hello.” &

Mame Warren arrived at Washington and Lee in 1995 to pro-
duce Come Cheer for Washington and Lee: The University at 250
Years. During her almost four years on campus, she became
enchanted with W&lL’s traditions. Now the director of
Hopkins History Enterprises at The Johns Hopkins
University, Warren admits that she suffered from culture
shock on first making the transition from Lexington to
Baltimore. She wrote about the evolution of Washington and
Lee’s speaking tradition for the course in civility and civiliza-
tion she recently took toward her master’s of liberal arts degree
at Johns Hopkins. ‘This article is based on that paper.

 

Washington and fig QE AskrU hema.

ma A GA 2 Lt oe

 

   
  
 
 
 

cy

88 Lok, ee

J 6
so oo
ee

é. TS / g >. ee ‘eo. a

 

AT

Taking It Over the To
Four Alumni Issue a Fundraising Challenge

Bee

  
  
 
 
  
  
  

7° cm q Gf
I C; YD “ L ‘

 

b. i. C ih. i.

 

      

~_ @ 4
: | qX7L Gee 27 a
IV ( VC (
A i i. ¥v Y . ed . |

 

Yy £ iw & S FECL R BEG Cone ~

 

 

 

#
&
‘a

Jf g

 

>

 

3
al /

  

 

 

  

Johnson remembered his decision last year, when fellow
0

rustee and longtime benefactor Gerry Lenfest ’53, *55L

welt
led to ask for help. Lenfest wanted to challenge the
: versity family to support the ongoing capital campaign, For
in

Rising Generation. Lenfest reasoned that if he found sev-
the

| major donors willing to supplement their own already gen-
ra a

: is campaign pledges, together they could inspire other
erol

University al
aign Over the top.
| the plan came together. Lenfest and Johnson

umni to support their alma mater and take the

camp
Last fal
ined Jack Warner 40 and a fourth alumnus who wishes to
jo! oy
main anonymous to announce their collective additional
re

pledge of $12.5 million—approximately half the amount need-

ed to reach the campaign’s $225 million goal before the dead-
line of Dec. 31, 2003.

“IT think Jack Warner’s part of the challenge is especially
crouching,” said Lenfest, honorary campaign chair and founder
of Lenfest Communications, a cable television company.
“After years of opposition to W&Ls coeducation decision, he
changed his mind and decided to fund scholarships for women
undergraduates.”

Warner’s gift is not the only one alumni have made out of
deep respect and admiration for Washington and Lee. Since
Lenfest and his colleagues announced the campaign challenge,
other graduates have stepped forward to make gifts of all sizes,
directed to all areas of the University. Some have responded
directly to the challenge, others have given for different rea-
sons. All are united by their love of W&L.

“The alumni challenge inspired me to do a little more to help
the school I love so much and a project that I particularly believe
in,” said Burt Staniar ’64, a W&L trustee whose gift will support
the new art and music building, one of the campaign’s capital pri-
orities. A history major, Staniar took many art-related courses dur-
ing his four years in Lexington. He believes this experience
helped prepare him for his current position as chairman of Knoll
Inc., a design-oriented manufacturer of office environments.
“One of the greatest strengths of my education was Washington
and Lee’s broad-based approach to the liberal arts.”

Looking at the other side of campus, Anne Yuengert ’89L
designated her gift for enhancements to the Law School, anoth-
<I Campaign priority. A partner in the Birmingham, Ala., office of
the law firm Bradley Arant Rose & White, she is an emeritus
member of the Law Council, a group of graduates who advise
pe law dean on the rapidly changing legal profession. Yuengert
S glad that funds raised through the campaign will be used to
Upgrade the entrance and provide a commons area for the Law
stool “It used to be difficult to even find the entrance,” she
Said with a laugh. “The building’s quirks made us feel kind of

Special
and protected, studying there in our own world. But it

 

wasn’t very practical or visitor friendly. I think it’s great the

building will soon have a front door, as well as space for the Law
School community to gather.”

Years of dealing with quirks both academic and administrative
at other universities inspired Hal Higginbotham ’68 to support
W&Ls capital campaign. “I believe it is terribly important that stu-
dent and faculty have the resources to achieve their often magical
interactions,” said the former university administrator, who is cur-
rently acting president of collegeboard.com, the Internet services
subsidiary of the College Board, best known for developing the
SAT and other pre-college tests. “I’ve always taken pride in help-

ing to make things work so the educational process will benefit.”

 

el

ion BEE Ale 6

IW Ae Ge oA eZ he

a © iLO seed

Xx

a vidgiad

A 18 N I oH

“

On

O

NIH Me de ve d

AY li a

‘

 

JOHN VLAHOPLUS 83S AND GERRY LENFEST 53, SSL MET UP
IN FRONT OF LEE CHAPEL DURING REUNION WEEKEND IN MAY 20038.
BOTH ALUMNI HAVE GIVEN TO THE CAMPAIGN FOR THE RISING GENERATION
AND URGE OTHERS TO HELP THE CAMPAIGN MEET ITS GOALS.

Higginbotham has many fond memories of his years at W&L,
where classes with Professor Buford S. “Steve” Stephenson ’42
during his freshman year inspired him to major in German. ‘The
gift Higginbotham and his wife, Barbra Buckner Higginbotham (a
faculty member and chief librarian at Brooklyn College), have
made to the campaign will fund library acquisitions, in part to
honor Professor Stephenson. “My ability, this late in life, to recite
one of [Rainer Maria] Rilke’s poems is only one of the many

reasons why we decided to contribute,” he said with a smile.

Bill Buice *61 also thinks the written Word ig
important. When he heard that Washington and
Lee wished to provide students with online
access to early English literature, he wanted to be
part of the project. “Schools without large, special
collections libraries simply don’t have access to
old texts like these,” said Buice, a partner in the
New York law firm Davidson, Dawson & Clark.
“This technology permits students to download
and study very old texts right in the classroom,”

Buice’s interest in English literature began
when he took courses at W&L from Professors
Sidney M. B. Couling and Arthur Ross Borden Ir.
A history major, he later attended law schoo] at
Duke University and began collecting English
Romantic literature and works written by radicals
of the period shortly after moving to New York.
Describing himself as very involved in the world
of the book, he said, “When my wife and ]
learned that Washington and Lee was raising
money to bring early English literature to new
generations of students, we were delighted to be
of help to the campaign.”

‘The English language made a career in news-
papers for Barton Morris °43. He received his
degree in absentia, as World War II called him
and many of his classmates away from Lexington
during their senior year. But the retired reporter
and publisher of the Roanoke Times has not for-
gotten his nearly four years at the University.
“My love for this institution is at the bottom of
everything. The relationship I enjoyed with my
professors made Washington and Lee special. As
a student, I wasn’t simply receiving instruction
from experts. My professors and I learned
together. I was on the road to discovery accom
panied by some very good guides.”

As co-chair of the Roanoke campaign effort,
Morris is committed to its success. A longume
benefactor who several years ago endowed a
scholarship for talented students from the Roanoke area, he
directed one of his campaign gifts to his 60th reunion fund.

Although he graduated exactly forty years after Barton Mortis,
John Vlahoplus ’83 also believes in the importance of preserving
what is special about W&L for future generations. A top student

initially recruited by an alumnus from Illinois, Viahoplus occasion

ally received small scholarships or prizes from the University to help

“ajlar assis-
pay for books and fees. He wants to do his part to make similar a

‘ J ecide
tance available for tomorrow’s talented scholars. “When you d

 

 

fic QE A1ti0 oe MA Gaz eee

 

 
 

 

 

e to W&L, you become

tO com o Ley
ct of q special con ymunity, Cc
pa 8
vate stitution
; “AS a pris ate 1ns ’
said. : :
che University cant survive on

1 ne ?
cuition dollars aione. It’s the

. “ae T - : ] : nemb S O

the community to support It to

the best of their ability.”

Vlahoplus knows he can’t yet
contribute at the level of the four
men who issued the alumni chal-
lenge. But the managing director
of Zurich Capital Markets, in
New York, figures he can still
help the campaign. “Each gift
that I can make will help
another student who needs a
little extra support.”

Such assistance means a lot
to Stacey Sim Walker 90. After
her career took her back home to
Texas, she became part of the
strong W&L alumni network in

Dallas. A member of the second

 

merit scholarship to benefit
local students. “I think
Washington and Lee pro-
vides one of the absolutely
best college and educational
experiences possible,” she
said. “It’s small, you receive
lots of personal attention, and
you have the opportunity to
make friends from all over
the nation. | want to be sure
that any deserving student
from Dallas who wants to
attend an impressive and
historic school far from home
can do so.”

Impressive is a good word
for the personalized tutorial
on W&Ls plans for the
future that Shaun Levesque
79 recently received. Active
in the New England alumni
chapter, Levesque and his

wife, Kate, took President

JACK WARNER ’40 RESIGNED HIS SEAT ON THE
class of women to attend the UNIVERSITY’S BOARD OF TRUSTEES OVER THE DECISION TO

‘Thomas G. Burish and his

University, she was the only ADMIT WOMEN TO W&L. HE HAS SINCE CHANGED HIS MIND wife, Pamela, to dinner

woman in the group for a time.
“But now more women from
Dallas have attended W&L, and I’ve been able to pass the torch,”
said the history major, who worked in management for Neiman
Marcus and other retailers before marrying and starting a family.
Walker wants to ensure that talented Dallas students have the

1

chance to attend the University in the years ahead. She and her hus-

band, Reid, designated their campaign gift to help create a second

    

ABOUT COEDUCATION, AND HIS RECENT GIFTS CREATED
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES.

following a Boston alumni
event. “We were so impressed
with his vision that we decided to double our pledge,” said the
president and CEO of CDC IXIS Asset Management Association,
a French investment-management company. “I'll always be
erateful for the fabulous education I received, with its emphasis on
critical thinking and the Honor System. Even today, nearly 25
years after graduation, my four closest friends in the world are
from Washington and Lee.”

Gerry Lenfest understands Levesque’s views of the
Washington and Lee experience and shares his sentiments. “The
lessons I learned at W&L have followed me throughout my life,
creating a tapestry woven with golden threads of honor, integrity
and civility,” said Lenfest, whose generosity funded the
University’s Lenfest Center. “I’ve never met a graduate who did
not benefit from the experience. If you want to make a similar
experience possible for the future generations, I urge you to come

forward now and make a gift to Washington and Lee.” 4

STUDENTS WILL BE ABLE TO
SPREAD THEIR WINGS IN THE NEW
ART AND MUSIC BUILDING, A MAJOR
BENEFICIARY OF THE CURRENT
FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN.

 

 

 

ARAM @ iO OD

S bit ae

S

7a hy se

B@Vravravd sO) Bad vd

Opt O Hod

A oh

vt

N

ede ek

a

 

ee

THOMAS G@G. GER Sa.

What will the future of Washington and Lee hold? More than 500
alumni, students, faculty, staff and parents answered that question in
a series of retreats a few years ago. ‘Their vision for the University

resulted in these strategic initiatives:

> W&L must attract and keep outstanding faculty to ensure that

students receive a well-rounded educational experience.

> W&L must provide more study-abroad experiences and other

opportunities for growth outside the classroom.

> W&L must offer enough financial aid to enable it to attract the
kind of students it wants, regardless of their economic back-

erounds.

> W&L must continue to build its technological infrastructure to
ensure that students and faculty have continued access to the lat-

est advancements.

> W&L needs new facilities and renovations to existing buildings

to accommodate expanding programs.

‘Thoughtful, well-reasoned, yet ambitious, these initiatives are certain
to guarantee W&Ls continued reputation as one of the most com-
petitive schools in the nation. ‘They also require funding far beyond
the level currently provided by the Annual Fund for day-to-day oper-
ating expenses, or by the University’s $400 million endowment.
While an internally controlled endowment of this size is healthy, the
University prudently spends only four percent of the income on this
money each year for the support of financial aid, professorships, some
departmental programs and debt payment. ‘The remainder is rein-
vested to protect the value of the fund as a resource for the future.
Hence, the Campaign for the Rising Generation—the fifth campaign
in W&Ls 250-year history—has been necessary. With an overall goal of $225
million, the campaign addresses important academic goals and_ physical
improvements and prepares the University for the years ahead.
‘The campaign is well on its way to a successful conclusion
as friends of W&L step forward to make financial commitments
to the effort. But funds must still be raised, and time grows

short. Over the years, the University has been fortunate to benefit

“This campaign ts about change, but also about keeping Washington and Lee the same.

Our obligation 1s to ensure that future generations of students graduate with the skills required
to work and lead in their world just as past generations of students did for their world. That is w
The Rising Generation 1s such a wonderful title.”

8b 8s ee 8 ke ee ee ee 8 Ree 6 8 eRe ee ee Eee 8 8 8 8 Re eR Se wee ee 6 ee
ec eese

PRESIDENT, WASHINGTON AND LEE UNI) 3

  
  
   
  
  
    

from prescient and generous supporters who have helped to make
the important choices of the day and taken Washington and Lee to

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

the next level of excellence. Won’t you help them now? +

Academic Prog

bee ee ee ks ee ee ee

Endowed 4 Profesor and Hal :

ae ee ee a Se ee

CO ee ee ee ee 8 8 we ee 8 8 8 ee et Se 8 et 6 ee 8 et te et 8 8

Physical Pr 9

ae ee ee ee ee ee

NN Ww University Commons

Ce ee 8 ee Oe Ce a 8 8 8 ee ee

- New Fitness Center, Reno
_ Warner Center and Doremus G m

oe 8 a 8 ee 6 8 ee 8 ee 8 ee 8 ee

and Improved Athletic Field

Ee Se Se ee ee ee

SR OS OR Se Re ce ee ee
ee ee ee ee
oe 8 ee ee eee

ce ee ee

be ee

RE BE RR BS Oe BOR eee ee ee ee

A

 

Washington and

 

 

  

    

w&L A

Chambe

mni Study CGlobal Issues as Watson Fellows

URDERS

 

  

omads in Mexico, Japan and Ireland. Music in Tuva, Saamiland, Rajasthan, Morocco and Ireland. Education
gland, South Africa, Australia and Argentina. Three recent W&L graduates—Scott Cameron ‘Ol, Joshua

rlain ‘Ol and Roshni Nirody '0O—have traveled these countries to study these topics as fellows of the Thomas

j. Watson Foundation. Two more are circling the globe this year—Thomas Crove '02 and Matthew Petrusek '02—

and Agnes Elak '03 is about to embark on the journey of a lifetime. This article presents road reports from Crove

and Petrusek and examines Flak’s journey from an II-year-old Polish immigrant to W&L graduate to Watson Fellow.

A successful Watson applicant hails from one of 50 private colleges
and universities in the U nited States. W&L, represented by Jeffrey C.
Barnett, associate professor of romance languages and director of the
Program for Education in Global Stewardship, nominates four candi-
dates to the 200-student pool of hopefuls, of whom 60 get the nod.
The 35-year-old program gives “college graduates of unusual promise

the freedom to engage in a year of independent study and travel

 

BEFo
ilk. RE GRADUATION AND HIS WATSON TRAVELS TO SOUTH
ICA
AND INDIA, MATT PETRUSEK ’O02 HELPED DIG LATRINES
FOR A SMALL TOWN IN OAXACA, MEXICO.

abroad following their graduation,” writes the foundation. With a
$22,000 stipend in their pockets, “fellows have an unusual, sustained
and demanding opportunity to take stock of themselves, to test their
aspirations and abilities, to view their lives and American society in
greater perspective and... to develop a more informed sense of inter-
national concern.” ‘These three recent alumni share a glimpse of that

perspective and concern.

From Buenos Aires, Sept. I, 2002:

I spend most of my days doing interviews with the help of
my contacts. Pve dubbed one of them, Cesar, my “underworld
guide.” He’s a grown-up orphan who spent much of his life on
the streets and now scratches out a living selling cheap horo-
scope cards to gullible tourists in a ritzy shopping district of
Buenos Aires. I bought one the first time we met. ‘Then I had an
idea. Cesar seemed to know everyone beneath the pedestrian
mall’s fashionable and affluent surface—the beggars, runaway
kids, street performers, lowly vendors—so I asked if he would
show me around. It’s been a beautiful relationship ever since:
He gets me interviews with people who instinctively think
about robbing me when I pull out my you-wouldn’t-have-to-
beg-or-steal-for-6-months camera, and I pay hima little over two
dollars an hour, which is more than twice the money he makes
selling cards.

Although I’m reminded when he tries to cajole me out of
more money that Cesar grew up a beggar, his willingness to help
with my project and the kindness he shows to those we
encounter on the street (most of whom he knows personally) is
nothing short of amazing. He is becoming a friend.

‘Though sometimes I wonder why the hell I chose to devote
a year to studying poverty (I often wonder how the Watson
Fellow studying the cultural importance of the olive in Greece
and Italy is doing), I take satisfaction and refuge in knowing that
my motivation springs not so much from pity, charity, piety,
goodness or a desire to fix others’ lives, but from a very
personal search to discover those things in life still worth loving
and hating so I may someday act for or against them.

 

 

Washat agian and me ene ere MA @ Ash we FE

AVEOOCGd ALEAAOdG GUYHCAHS§ AHL AO ASALANOD OLOH

From India, Dec. 31, 2002:

Several weeks ago in Delhi, one of the horrifically deformed beg-
gars limping through rush-hour traffic made it to the side of my taxi.
As always, I became painfully aware of his presence, but conspicuous-
ly did not look at him. I kept my eyes down as I debated whether to
sacrifice my tourist pride by giving him some money (“being a suck-
er,’ | thought to myself), which would probably make him hobble
away, or uncomfortably preserving my self-respect by waiting, inches
away from his repeating pleas, for the light to turn green.

In the midst of this familiar fluctuation, I, for an unknown reason,
suddenly decided to look the man directly and intently in his eyes.
‘They were a dark, beautiful brown, glowing, though somewhat faint-
ly, with the light and life of dignity. I no longer saw a beggar. I saw a
man begging. Of course I already knew the difference intellectually,
but this was the first time I could feel it. Although I didn’t give him
anything, I acted, for the first time, out of deep respect instead of shal-
low callousness. Or pity.

I still don’t know if I did the right thing; I probably should have
given him something. But in the simple moment when our eyes
locked, I did not feel diluted or ill or heavy with guilt. I understood
with a new clarity that no individual deserves or desires my pity, even
if she or he must artfully evoke and exploit it to survive. Pity is ego-
ism; it is shelter for a weak heart. If I would live, if I would love, if this
year is to have any substantial meaning, then I must not pity. Bleeding
myself will not cure others.

‘Though I still do not give to most of the outstretched hands that
meet me, though I still question whether she or he is “deserving” or not,
I now look every person begging firmly in the eyes, especially when I
say “no.” I try to keep my heart and mind fixed on the light obscured
behind the dark and dirty rags to remember that I am not here to weep
for others’ wounds or to make them my own. I am here to worship the
spark I witnessed in a man’s eyes amidst Delhi’s sooty twilight mist, no
matter how faint or forgotten. From it, I receive my holy obligations.

From Nepal, Jan. 31, 2003:

I will forever remember the days I spent in a small commune
called Shanthinager, a leprosy colony outside of Calcutta, India, run by
Mother ‘Theresa’s Sisters of Charity. Shanthinager literally means
“place of peace” in Hindi. It initially seems an absurd misnomer. ‘The
walled and gated community houses hundreds of lepers, some new
arrivals awaiting treatment and an amputation, others permanent res-
idents because their families and villages banished them. The sight of
scores of amputees is grisly; the smell is worse. ‘The heavy, sweet-rot
stench of ulcers and infections wafting from the outpatient wards stirs
an ancient sense of fear: stay away, this is death and disease. As one sis-
ter admitted to me, “At times, it takes the love of Christ to remind me
that these are human beings.”

‘This kind of experience should have offended my deepest sense
of justice and rightness in the world. Leprosy is curable if caught in
time, yet many failed to treat it because poverty had shrouded them
in ignorance thick enough to let them ignore rotting patches of their
skin. Of the poor in the world, these were some of the poorest.

Yet something paled my passion for change: Most people there
were happy. Shanthinager’s collection of partly erased individuals—
the armless, the legless, the noseless, those with open wounds—
spent their days singing and chatting in the sunny, well-tended gar-

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

dens, or managed to work in the fields that produce much of the fool
they eat or crawled and crutched along the pleasant, tree-lined brick
paths with whatever stumps remained, with a serenity I had nevell
seen before. Just after I arrived, an old, wrinkled woman eagerly shuf.
fled and hopped up to me using the remnants of her arms and intro-
duced herself as “the frog,” referring to how she “walked.” ] Winced
in pity and forced a smile. She laughed deeply and sincerely,

I do not want to romanticize a leper colony. The hurting Tealities
of Shanthinager should fade into history, into something that evokes
consternation when future generations learn that places like it actual-
ly used to exist (and it’s a good thing they did). We have 4 duty to
make the Sisters of Charity’s compassionate and loving labor a little
more antiquated. Whatever price or tax incurred for such an ACt is
worth it, and even the difficulty of success in such an endeavor should
not slow or impede as an excuse.

—Matthew Petrusek ‘92

 

- TOM GROVE ’02 STRUMMIN«
. IN ISTANBUL

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

I’m ina wide room with little light that comes through the folded lace
curtains. The walls are that color of pink everyone tries to avoid in a
gift box of chocolates. I would guess it was a funeral parlor if not for
the techno music that drives from the fake fireplace and the Hierony-
mous Bosch prints on the walls that would be all too appropriate. I
couldn’t think of a more absurd place to wave an emphatic hello to my
friends. Maybe that’s why I was drawn here in the first place.

I have been in ‘Turkey for the past five months, studying some of
the Turkish classical and folk-music traditions. Two times a week, I
have lessons on the oud, 11 strings that stretch over a fretless, teal-
shaped body, and the tanbur. An enviable replica of the tanbur could
be achieved by lodging a broomstick in a pumpkin. As there 1s no
sound hole, the music echoes endlessly within the body, creating long

sustained notes. The sound is simply otherworldly.

 

 

 

In Istanbul, I have been staying in the former Greek and
= quarter, Beyoglu. Because my neighborhood has always
Arme

the residence of ethnic minorities, the Ottoman Empire did lit-
been

tle in the
pletely 0184

rime, small co
workshops and grocery stores. After a number of Greek and

way of city planning. Rather, the neighborhoods grew com-
nically as buildings scrambled for space and sunlight. With
mmunities began to form around the winding streets,

homes,
Armenian families
| d older) artists and musicians moved in and turned the neighbor-

left Beyoglu starting in the 1950s, a lot of younger

(an
hood 1

number of ge ae |
letely different idea of what it is to live in a community.
pletel)

After two months in Istanbul, I came across a 1975 edition of the

nto the city’s bohemian quarter. Living among such a small
people in what is effectively a village has given me a com-

Journal of the Society for Asian Music in a small library in the northern
coast of the city. It detailed a minstrel tradition that the author,
German musicologist Kurt Reinhart, followed and recorded through-
out Anatolia in 1975. To make things more interesting, he gave a list
of names, addresses and ages. Given the situation—that on the one
hand I had absolutely no clue what these musicians were doing in
2003, and on the other hand I knew their exact whereabouts in 1975—
| bought a ticket for Gaziantep, on the border with Syria. From there
| travelled to Sivas; to Kars, which borders Armenia; and to the
Kurdish capital of Diyarbakir.

The minstrels themselves are called ashiks in ‘Turkish. The word
means, literally, “lover,” taken from classical Arabic. Needless to say, it
was always good for a few shallow and strained laughs when I went to
universities for translators and explained to the English-speaking stu-
dents and their boyfriends that I was looking for lovers.

Although the tradition can be traced back to shamanism, ashiks
now claim that they derive their gift for poetry and music from divine
inspiration. ‘hey once roamed through Anatolia, but they became
famous for their ability to improvise poetry at the drop of a hat, con-
verse in poetry and even debate in poetry for local audiences.

‘lo my not-so-great surprise, ashiks no longer roam across Anatolia,
nor did I find any of the ashiks on Reinhart’s list. I did find, however,
a lot of minstrels who still perform poetry and music for their friends
and neighbors in small villages throughout Turkey.

Anatolia was just as interesting as the tradition itself. It is a far cry
from the United States and even from Istanbul. In Sivas, I went through
Ramadan, fasting from sunrise to sunset. People I met praised the
practice. Some students invited me to eat iftar with them, the evening
meal that breaks the fast. At the end of the meal, one of the students
turned to me and said, “Tom, I don’t know what you will say, but I was
talking with my God, and ‘Tom, my God wants you to be Muslim.”

I was mortified. My eyes dropped to the floor. I scanned the frantic
Paths of divergin g and converging arabesques that spread over the carpet,
looking for a distraction, an escape, or at least something to say. But I
found no exit. As the student continued, she spoke with such an expres-
= of absolute kindness and concern that I couldn’t meet my prosely-
“izer with anger. lo make the situation worse, someone else translated
the “onversation to the family next to us. The erandfather encouraged
ME go to the mosque with him. “Then you’ll understand,” he said.

| The experience was a disturbingly accurate re-creation of pledge

oe _ And so, a in euas cede I

-.. : ae tactic = absolute silence without the slightest sign
OF spiritual) activity. The storm passed.

In the university in Kars, things became only stranger after I
became friends with some Kurdish students and left my hotel to stay in
their apartment. Speaking with them, I became more interested in the
Kurdish music, language and culture that the Turkish government had
outlawed for so long. ‘The next day, when I came to the university, I was
promptly escorted off the premises “so there would be no problems,”
said the university police. Later I realized that the interest I had con-
ceived as innocent curiosity was under more scrutiny than I thought.
Soon I got wind that the police were looking for an American spy who
had come to Kars to stir up trouble between ‘Turks and Kurds. In
praise of quick escapes, I bought my ticket for Istanbul the same day.

As threats of war grow more vitriolic from the United States, I have
seen an increasing number of protests—organized on the streets and
improvised in taxicabs. ‘Turkey has no ill will toward the States, but the
thought of war between the U.S. and Iraq is too close to the conse-
quences of the 1991 Gulf War. After the United States’ last showdown
with Saddam, the ‘Turkish economy plummeted and, many people
claim, the U.S. failed to come through with the promised postbellum
aid. As their economy now seems to be only getting worse, they fear a
replay of 1991. This is all reflected in the conversations I share with
everyone around me—friends, waiters and a twenty-year-old with
whom I traveled as he made his way to the army base where he will
carry out the military service obligatory to all Turkish men.

My bus leaves in two hours for Hopa, on the border with Georgia.
My trip eastward has been delayed for about a month due to the
bureaucracy of the post-Soviet republics, as I try to pick up my visas
for the trip east. ‘Today, as I scan the streets of Ankara, the Turkish cap-
ital, my anxiety to leave is only exacerbated as I notice the conspicu-
ous absence of a certain style of frumpy corduroy hat that became pop-
ular here in late November. I have actually seen fashions come and go
in ‘lurkey. Yes, it is time to leave.

—Tom Grove ’02

AGNES FLAK ’O3 IS HEADED
FOR EASTERN EUROPE TO
IMMERSE HERSELF IN THE

LIVES OF IMMIGRANTS.

 

 

Washington and

 

 

Eigse WE hoes be te

Wen G 7A eZ ae EF

Her journey will begin in Croatia and Yugoslavia. From there, Flak
plans to spend three months in Africa, and then travel to Sri Lanka and
Australia. Her trip will end in Mexico. “I want to talk to the displaced
themselves. I want to converse with children as much as I want to
speak with those who initiated the move,” she said. “I want to hear
their stories in order to understand. I want to record their stories and
capture their struggles in images that I think will help me to provoke
the debate that I see as my ultimate goal.”

Flak developed her project, “Story of Forced eae
Images and Narratives from a Migrant’s Life,” through her work with
W&Ls Shepherd Poverty Program. ‘The Watson Fellowship ae
bring together everything I have been eons and done in the es
said Flak, “and take me to the next step.”

Her need to comprehend different cultures and ways of assimila- |

tion were born in her childhood. Flak was 11 when her family left post-
communist Poland for Germany because her father could not receive
the medical care needed for his cancer. “I was excited . . . to be crossing
an international border for the first time,” Flak wrote in her Watson
essay. “But I soon realized that by crossing the border, we had become
part of those rejected in their native land because we left and [had]

entered the group of those resisted in the host-country after coming in.

“Questions about identity and citizenship were thrown above my

head,” Flak wrote. “Matters of cultural individuality soon became just |

a question of formality. Even my name [Agnieszka] was simplified to
make it easier for those with whom I was soon supposed to. associate.
Nobody asked me. After all, I was just a child ina moment of refuge.”

More than a decade later, this W&L graduate will bring her per- :

sonal history to bear on moments of refuge experienced by other citi-

zens of the world. Here she elaborates on the motivations for her stud- .
ies and for applying for the Watson ee and on her education :

at Washington and Lee. —

During his four years at Washington and Lee, Scott Cameron ’(01
was definitely a C-school major: the clean-cut hair, the tidy clothes, the
businesslike approach to people and issues. A year after his gradua-
tion, | happened to meet Scott again. ‘The guy who returned from a
year as a Watson fellow, studying culture and education in England,
was a quite different sight: long hair, baggy clothes, necklaces and a
laid-back air that could tell many different stories. My question
whether I should submit my application for the Watson seemed triv-
ial. “Hell, yeah,” he said. I didn’t need to hear more.

‘The desire to become a Watson Fellow was born with my applica-
tion to college, if not long before that; certainly before I ever heard of
the Watson program. | applied to Washington and Lee driven by a never-
satisfied thirst for the cultural experiment of crossing borders. ‘There
is satisfaction in tracing the globe and corresponding with pen pals
across the planet, but nothing compares to living that “other” yourself.

Looking for cultural diversity, Washington and Lee might seem an
odd choice: a small town, a small student body, a small variety of things
to do. Yet there is one thing | have realized over the past four years:
Lexington and W&L might be small in size, but they are definitely
not small in opportunities. Coming to W&L, I was looking for the
American college experience in particular. Little did I know that the
intellectually stimulating environment of the Shenandoah Valley and
a door to the rest of the world would be served on the same plate.

My desire to study journalism and theater was merely a personal

  
    

TWO ACTORS

FROM WORKING,

 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

WHICH WATSON
FELLOW
AGNES FLAK ’O3
DIRECTED
DURING HER
SENIOR YEAR
AT W&L.

interest at first. ‘The last four years reaffirmed that aspiration, but above
all, helped me grow personally and find the specialization that ] Was
looking for. While international reporting was an avenue I was hoping
to pursue, the interest in marginalized populations emerged gradually
as a result of both my academics and extracurricular involvement.

Global nomad that I was, staying confined to the limits of the
Rockbridge County seemed out of question. One thing my professors
taught me about journalism from the first day on: you have to do your
research, and you have to know the facts. Even better: you must have
been there or even done it yourself. For an aspiring journalist, going
out into the field seemed the right thing to do. So I did.

I spent two summers working with disadvantaged populations in
Bolivia’s countryside and inner-city ghettos. I interned with the
Reuters newsroom in Warsaw, Poland, now on the edge of its transi-
tion from post-communism to membership in the European Union. |
also interned at an opera house in Sicily, where theater is so strongly
intertwined with the political surroundings out of which it was born.

My theater major offered opportunities to learn about and to expe-
rience disadvantaged groups within the American society. My first
directing project, David Willinger’s Andrea’s Got Two Boyfriends, por-
trayed mentally retarded individuals and their precarious existence.
My senior thesis, Working, a musical based on Studs ‘lerkel’s inter
views with everyday American workers, was an opportunity to look
beyond and appreciate the misinterpreted outward simplicity of peo-
ple whom we so easily take for granted.

The W&L academics, student organizations, international experi-
ences, campus and all the friendships created along the way seem like an
introduction to what is about to come. I could have applied to a graduate
school or for a job, but I decided to go for the Watson instead. The last
four years have been a challenging but exhilarating roller-coaster nde,
and I am not planning to bring it to a full stop yet. I don’t know whether
I will succeed in what I am proposing to do. It is not what the year on the

Watson Fellowship will be about. It will be about following a passion,
e way.

from

investing in others and myself and making mistakes along th
Ultimately, it will be about trying. I don’t think one gains satisfaction
a life that has not taken chances. This is a chance: to chase a dream, 1
blindly follow my internal compass, to drastically change myself.

Just the other day, I happened to meet Scott again. His long hair
was gone, the business suit had reappeared. He needed to get 4 job,
he explained. I thought, well, he can cut his hair and change his

clothes, but he will never be able to wipe that year away.
—Agnes F. Jak 03

ooeeen
Pd es
eee
s+ ee
oes eo Oe were
eee eee rere reese eer rere reer reese esresreseeeseseeeeseeeereeeeeereeee es &

; lashington
For more information about the Watson Fellowship, seé the Washing

and Lee Web site: http://watson.wlu.edu/

 

Washington and

    
 
 

 

 

S. Moffett
in touch with

éo— 1
pr. Alexander
enjoys a
Harry Neel '2°.

im 1930—<”

Nelson

ohn H. N' ca

: still living 19 Danville, Va., where
: is taking life a little slower
ne 1s &

nowadays.

oe -6—Cd1 OSS —_6>
d
alter J. Poun |
E been on the board of directors
cd crustees of the Rockland
County (N.Y.) YMCA for the past

30 years.

a= {O35 imalasta
frederick Strong
still plays golf, thanks to a knee
replacement, and sings with the
local barbershop chorus.

w. G. Wiglesworth Jr.

received the Environmental Excel-
lence Award for Heritage Land
Conservation for donating 110 acres
to the Kentucky State Nature
Preserves Commission. ‘The Har-
rison County property is known as
Quiet ‘Trails State Nature Preserve.
The Licking River flows along the
preserve’s eastern boundary, and
the property features many species
of native plants and animals.

oo 7 O37 <>
William D. Fishback (‘39L)

raises ‘Thoroughbred horses and
Angus cattle in central Kentucky.

Dr. William C. Wilbur Jr.
lost his wife, Pat, after more than
55 years of marriage. He is now liv-
ing at a retirement community in
St. Petersburg, Fla. Wilbur was the
only member of the class of ’37 to
attend the 65th Homecoming, but
he did get to see his classmates
Arch and Erskine Sproul while vis-
iting Staunton.

—. {O38 —__.»

Dr. Chester Schept

retired and was chosen as the 2002
volunteer of the year for New York
state by United Cerebral Palsy.

Thomas W. Stanfield
expresses his regret that there are
not many left from the class of 38.

Charles M. Williams

enjoys retirement, especially since
his wife, Betty, supplements his
energy. Ihe couple enjoy frequent
visits from their daughter and their
3-year-old granddaughter. Williams
still enjoys international travel,
although he keeps it down to one or
two trips a year.

2. § 93 Oo —+G>

Charles C. Cilmore
is recovering after a serious hip
operation.

Brig. Gen Hugh R.
Thompson Jr.

fell and broke his right hip in Nov.
2001, requiring metallic replace-
ment. He still cannot get around
much. His wife, Betty, has been a
wonderful executive secretary,
nurse, chauffeur and anybody else

A LU M NSIT N E W S

 

necessary under the circum-
stances. ‘he couple send _ their
love to family and friends.

Ceorge H. Vanta

celebrated his 60th wedding
anniversary in Nov. 2002. He has a
grandson in his third year at the Air
Force Academy in Colorado.

“Qa BAO

Charles C. Curl Jr.

went flying in a DeHaviland
Beaver float plane. He loves to be
able to fly at 85, with no glasses
and no hearing aids.

C. Harrison Hogan
says everything is about the
same—yust he’s a year older.

John W. Johnston

enjoys retirement on his cattle
farm 10 miles southwest of
Lexington on Buffalo Creek.

William W. Kastner Jr.

and his wife, Evelyn, miss return-
ing to reunions because of health
problems. For Kastner, W&L 1s
still the tops.

Robert L. Robertson

has Alzheimer’s. His wife writes
that she is not sure how much he
understands anymore but does

know he loves W&L.

James H. Willis

and his wife, Anne, sold their
house in Greensboro, N.C., and
moved to an apartment in

Richmond to be closer to their
daughter and family. ‘The couple

have two granddaughters, one a
senior in high school and the other
a junior at Hollins University.

Scone 3 Oat >

George M. Murray Jr.
enjoys retirement and playing golf.

Dr. Kenneth C. Smith
received the Honorary Alumnus
Award in recognition of his service
as adjunct professor of geology at
Dallas Baptist University, where
he remains active in extracurricular
and professional development.

“O—— 1942 —S>»

W. John Daniel

enjoyed the 60th reunion. He 1s
sorry that, unfortunately, the num-
bers are going down.

Harrell F. Morris

attended his 60th reunion and was
pleased to see Louise Walker and
Betty Pitser were present to receive
awards for their deceased husbands,
Bob Walker ’42 and Fred Pitser ’42.
Morris will be attending the 10th
Alumni College in Italy.

fo... OAs —c>

Linton F. Murdock

is retired, swims daily and races
every now and then in a master’s
meet.

Dr. James S. Parsons

and his wife, Eleanor, celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary in
May. ‘Uhey live in Lexington.

 

Harry Nee! '28 received quite an
honor on May 14, 2002, when the
city of Albert Lea, Minn., pro-
claimed Dr. Harry B. Neel Day in
recognition of an “entire career prac-
ticing superb medicine and surgery
In a rural setting” and for “achieving
4 Teputation for excellence in the
Practice of surgery and medicine for
more than forty years.” Neel cele-
brated his 96th birthday on the same

day, Following his graduation from

W&L, he

attended medical school at
Johns Hopkins University. During
World War II, he served with the

DR.

DR. HARRY NEEL ’28 AND HIS SON,

H. BRYAN NEEL

Pacific

Photo Courtesy of Bulletin of the American College of Surgeons

and at

U.S. Navy as a surgeon in the South

Bethesda Naval

Hospital. After his return to Minne-
sota from the service, he helped found
the Albert Lea Medical and Surgical
Center (now the Albert Lea Clinic)
and was the first board-certified sur-
geon in southern Minnesota outside
the Mayo Clinic. Di. Neel has been
retired for 20 years, but people still
telephone him for medical advice.
About his special day, he told the
Albert Lea Tribune, “\vs an honorary
thing. But it’s pretty neat.” He plans

to attend Homecoming in October.

 

 

Mec A Se A

Zi

Presidency of Realtors’ Organization

 

John M. Dean Jr. 64 became the 58th president of the Realtors’
Land Institute on November 8, 2002.

oo 4 O46 A o>

Dr. Frederick W. Bauer
works extensively with the Boy
Scouts, serving as camp commis-
sioner at Camp ‘Turrell in Cuddy-
backville, N.Y. He serves as a dea-
con at his church on Fridays and
tends to the garden and green-
house, while his wife, Ethel, plays
tennis just about every day and
swims all summer.

A. Leon Cahn
is retired and enjoys leisure and
travel.

Richard L. Heard

reports that after an illness of two
years he still is not completely well
but much improved. He looks for-
ward to the prospect of getting
back to campus soon.

OO 1945 —S&>

Floyd W. McRae Jr.

is happy to have three of his grand-
children at W&L. They are
Wesley M. McRae ’03, C. Collier
McRae ’05 and Rebecca R.
McRae ’06, the daughter of
Douglas W. McRae ’76.

<o..... § 9 4G —__c*>

Frederick C. Sage
says he is getting old, but is not
worried since it is only temporary.

“—.._- § 948 —_C»>

Dr. Marvin L. Daves
is enjoying retirement in Prescott,

Ariz.

Ci 5 Ae...»

Michael J. Barrett Jr. (’51L)
and his wife, Hope, spent six

weeks in Australia and New
Zealand. ‘Their daughter, Cheryl
Hutchinson ’89, gave birth to their
sixth grandchild. ‘The Barretts live
in Alexandria, Va.

Brian Bell
and his wife, Sue, enjoyed a week’s
visit to Montreal last September.

Col. Paul J.B. Murphy Jr.
released his latest film, “We Guard
‘lomorrow ‘Today,’ which docu-
ments the history and current
activities of ‘The Brotherhood of
the Jungle Coch, an organization
dedicated to the teachings of con-
servation and the art of fly-fishing.
He lives in McLean, Va.

Charles R. Treadgold

traveled Italy’s ‘Tuscany area for
three weeks with friends. He was
wearing a W&L baseball cap when
three other W&L alumni ap-
proached him. They all enjoyed
reminiscing about their alma mater.

O—_ 49 SO ——»

George W. Cinn
is busy traveling and looks forward
to the May 2003 reunion.

Dr. Donald D. Hook
continues to write articles and
books. His most recent books are
Switching Churches: A Layman’s
Guide to a New Commitment and
Psychograms of Sickness and
Death: A Partial Autohtography.

Joseph H. McCee ('52L)

was named president of the senior
division of the South Carolina
State Bar. He is a partner with the
law firm Buist, Moore, Smythe &

fg OG Tia ee eed a eet

McGee PA. He lives in Charles-
ton, S.C. McGee has also been
named the 23rd recipient of the
DuRant Distinguished Public
Service Award, considered the
most prestigious statewide recog-
nition bestowed upon an attorney.

Dr. Robert S. Mendelsohn
is very busy enjoying retirement in
many ways.

Dr. C. William Whitehurst
was awarded the University Medal
by the board of visitors of Old
Dominion University. ‘The medal
is the university’s highest accolade
for service to the institution.
Whitehurst holds the chair of
Kaufman Lecturer in Public
Affairs.

ee ee 8 ee

Dr. Thomas A. Courtenay
enjoyed the remnant reunion
Homecoming Weekend and admits
that he missed a lot of people.

John Augustus F. Hall Jr.
enjoyed letting the good times roll
at Homecoming and seeing many
old faces. He thinks ‘om Wolfe
performed well at Lee Chapel,
giving a good stand-up show with
perfect timing and some insight
into today’s scene.

William H. Kyle Jr.

has permanently moved to Palm
Desert, Calif., and is happy about
not having to shovel snow any
longer.

J. Hunter Lane Jr. (’53L)
retired from the practice of law
after 42 years and has been enjoy-
ing life thoroughly ever since. He
spends his time writing nonfiction;
trout fishing; serving as chairman
of the board for two church-spon-
sored day-care centers for low-
income working parents; reading;
and hanging out with old friends,
including a number of W&L class-
mates. Lane lives in Memphis,
‘Tenn.

Richard E. McMurran
has been a dialysis patient for 18
years.

Morton B. Solomon

spends quality time on his sailboat
on the Hudson River. He 1s also an
adjunct professor at Fordham
University Graduate School of
Business. All his other time is
devoted to his six grandchildren.

 

“O—_ 1952 em
Dr. Echols A. ‘Hansbarger Ir
is completely retired and |

Ving j
Charleston, W.Va., and does “a
miss working at all. He received a

master’s degree in Civil War h;

ry from the American Mila
University in December 2002
History has always been as impor.
tant to him as medicine. =
Dr. Preston C., Manning Jr
received the 2002 Lettie Pare
Whitehead Evans Award, given b

the Virginia Theological Semina ’
to Episcopal laypersons who, “over
a significant period of time,” have
given “unique witness to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ in their
civic, religious, business and pro-
fessional lives.”

Dr. Robert A. Maslansky

is grinding away at a pleasing pace
at Bellevue Hospital Center ip
New York running the Addiction
Rehabilitation Program. He has no
immediate plans to pack it in,

The Very Rev.
Robert Schenkel
and his wife, Anne, were delighted

to be present at the 50th reunion
last fall.

QO 1953 ae

Robert W. Latimer
enjoys semi-retirement and is look-
ing forward to his 50th reunion.

Robert J. Maccubbin
enjoys retirement while he contin-
ues to do volunteer work, play golf
and travel. He motored 7,500 miles
with his wife, Connie, going from
Charlotte, N.C., to Arizona to
Calgary, Canada, and back home.

John L. S. Northrop ;
retired as president from the famt-
ly-owned company, Observer
Publishing Co., sold his interest
and together with his brother,
William B. Northrop °56, handed
the family business over t0 their
children. He began working at
the Washington, Pa., Observer
Reporter 48 years ago as a reporter
and political cartoonist.

Samuel K. Patton

was elected to the board of trustees
of the New York State Association
of Library Boards and also serves
as its secretary. He continues work-
ing as a computer consultant a
enjoys visiting his erandchildren !
Vermont.

 

Was

ting te a

and

fee BPA ALUMNI

M> Ae @G@ #ee

I

  

a

elville P- Roberts Jr.
from neurosurgical practice
q is professor emeritus of neuro-
Se at the University of
Be icut School of Medicine.
Bi rcs and his wife, Marianne,
ide their year between homes

in the United Kingdom and in the
i

West Indies.

pr. M

retired

oa 1954—<*”

james C. Conner
was forced back to the U.S. from
Singapore by the Asian economic
meltdown in 1998. He enjoys
retirement throughout the Pacific
Northwest from his new home
near Portland, Ore.

The Rev. Peter R. Doyle
lives in Opelika, Ala., where he
preaches, teaches and maintains a
ministry with Auburn University
students. He has published 11
adventure books for young read-
ers, plus three historical novels for
the same age level. He and his
wife, Sally, have five grand-
children.

James A. Freedman

savs that he is now “old as dirt.”
He still works in picture-framing
retail, travels to see friends and
family and enjoys good health.

Dr. B. Phillip Kocen

practices developmental pediatrics
in Austin, ‘Texas. He enjoys taking
care of AD/HD kids and adults

and has no plans for retirement.

The Rev. J.

Fletcher Lowe Jr.

received the 2003 Commonwealth
First Freedom Award from the
Council for America’s First
Freedom, which annually recog-
nizes extraordinary advocates of
feligious freedom who are making
contributions in local communities
and at national and international
levels. Lowe is the current execu-
tive director of the Virginia
Interfaith Center for Public Policy.

Paul M. Maslansky

is Planning on a 2004 installment
of Police Academy 8” in honor of
his 50th W&L reunion,

Surse T. Pierpoint
cd the Alumni College
anube cruise in May 2002.

ee Hon. Laurier T.

ond Jr. (‘56L)

: 33 years as probate judge in
°° 1S now practicing law full

time and has begun a two-year
term as mayor of Lewiston, Maine.

Ceorge M. Young

was on campus last fall to watch
the Rhodes-W&L field hockey
game. His granddaughter was cap-
tain of the Rhodes team. He says
he was very impressed with the
artificial turf field and all the other
facilities.

Ka... 4 es 6»

William H. Bartsch

spent three months advising the
government of the United Arab
Emirates in employment genera-
tion for its citizens. He co-authored
a book called The Old Breed of
Marine: A World II Diary and
wrote his own book, MacArthur's
Pearl Harbor.

“| 9 56 ——G>»

Jean-Marie C.
Crandpierre

enjoys retirement in France and
continues to focus on family and
community activities.

The Hon. James H. Harvell lll
will retire this year as general dis-
trict-court judge after 31 years on
the bench. He looks forward to
playing golf and spending time with
his grandchildren. Once a year, he
makes an excursion to Colonial
Downs, near Richmond, together
with Stuart Atkinson ’56, Jack Kane
65 and Kendall Jones °57.

John J. Popular Il

got together with his former room-
mate at Phi Gamma, Carl Bolt °55,
after having no contact for 30 years,
at Bucs-Panthers games in
Charlotte, N.C. and ‘Tampa, Fla.
‘They celebrated their Nov. 19
birthdays together, recalled the
glory days of W&L football in the
50s and compared notes on chil-
dren and grandchildren. Popular
lives in Ocean City, Md.

Daniel B. Thompson Il
spends his winters in Naples, Fla.,
and his summers in Avalon, N.J.

IK Devaias § RF >

William O. Shropshire
retired from his position as
Callaway Professor of Economics
at Oglethorpe University. He and
his wife, Pat, reside in Atlanta.

<>___ {95 8 — Cc»

Dr. J. Gill Holland
and his wife, Siri, are stationed at
the University of Lodz on a teach-

A L U MN It N E WwW S

 

ing Fulbright until the middle of
June. Holland invites friends of
W&L to pay a visit, if they happen
to be around. ‘The couple’s daugh-
ter, Siri Lise Holland Doub 790,
and her husband, Robb, will be
joining them in Poland for a spell.

<o.. « F O 5 9 —__c»

Reginald K. Brack Jr.

was named among the _ nine
Outstanding Directors in Corpor-
ate America 2002, announced by
Director’s Alert, an independent
publication focused on excellence
in corporate governance. Brack
serves on the boards of Interpublic
Group and Quebecor World and is
former chairman and chief execu-
tive officer of ‘Time Inc. He resides
in Greenwich, Conn.

Bertrand R. Hudnall Il
established an independent col-
lege counseling service, ‘The Next
Step, serving families along the
eastern coast.

J. William McCallum Jr.
is fully recovered from prostate
cancer.

“o.- 7 9EO0 —<—>

Malcolm B. Burton (‘63L)
received the Harmonie Group’s
Insurance Claims Person of the
Year Award at the seventh Annual
Robert H. Hammond Memorial
Scholarship Fund reception in
New York City in May 2002. He
works for Chubb & Son Inc. as a
managing director and_ senior
claims counsel. Burton lives with
his wife of 44 years, Ray, in
Chatham, N.Y. He has five chil-
dren and eight grandchildren.

Charles S. Chamberlin

is the vice president of Pinnacle
Capital Group, a commercial real-
estate investment-banking firm.

Thomas W. Cilliam Jr.
discovered he had stage 3 rectal
cancer during a routine screening,
He’s had two surgeries and been
through a course of chemo and
radiation therapy. He hopes he’s
now cancer-free. He urges all of his
classmates to have a colonoscopy if
they have been putting 1t off.

Randolph B. Kilman

is moving aboard his boat in the
Caribbean while his new water-
front house on Indian Creek, just
outside Kilmarnock, Va., is being
built.

QQ: 1 961 —<—>

Walter J. Crater Jr.
retired from the Naval Sea
Systems Command.

Robert S. Diehl

retired in May 2002 after 41 years
with the Richmond  Times-
Dispatch. He joined the newspa-
per in 1961 and spent 17 years in
the sports department before
transferring to the main news copy
desk. His wife, Michelle, retired
the same day after 27 years with
the newspaper. Diehl has one
daughter and a grandson. His wife
has two children, four grandchil-
dren and one great-grandson.

Richard W. Hoover
continues with his antique-arms
business, exhibiting at 20 shows a
year. As the past president of the
Front Royal (Va.) Kiwanis
Command of the John S. Mosby
Camp of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans and president of the
Warren Historical Society, he lec-
tures on subjects including Venice,
church architecture, signs and
symbols in Christian art, American
military prints 1775-1848 and the
1683 ‘Turkish Siege of Vienna.

Richard W. Lacy
is semi-retired and teaches politi-
cal science part-time.

Ronald L. Randel

is president of the Certified
Commercial Investment Manager,
Colorado, Wyoming Chapter, for
2003. He and his wife, Marge, live
in Greeley, Colo.

co. {9 6 2:-«.--G>

Dr. Kenneth B. Jones Jr.
served as the president of the
American Society for Bariatric
Surgery for the 2001-02 term.

Robert L. Stone (‘65L)
retired in 1998 and spends a great
deal of time traveling with his wife,
Ann, to the Keys, Highland, N.C.,
Europe and on extended motor-
home trips in Canada and the
western U.S.

Stephen H. Suttle

will serve as president of the ‘Texas
chapter of the American Board of
‘Irial Advocates and as a member
of the ‘Texas Committee of the
American College of ‘Trial Lawyers
in 2003.

Stanley A. Walton III ("65)
loved his first W&L Alumni

 

Washington

is

and

 

fee PA ALUMNI

My Ag GA =Z

I

College trip on the Danube. He
says his triplet granddaughters
were born on Jan. 1, 2002. He lives
in Willowbrook, Il.

oo. 1963 —C>

Warren B. Hughes Jr.

and his wife, Mary, moved their
home and office to Ocean City,
N.J. Hughes owns and operates
Red Finders USA, which locates,
screens and helps attract sales-
representative agencies for compa-
nies. ‘he couple have five grand-
daughters.

Dr. E. Ross Kyger Ill

has been retired for nine years
now. Injuries from a plane crash
prevent him from playing golf, but
he hunts, fishes and travels. Kyger
is very proud of the education
W&L gave his two children, as
they are both very successful at an
early age.

Walker Y. Ronaldson Jr.

is the president of the New
Orleans branch of the English-
Speaking Union of the U.S., which
sponsors teacher scholarships to
Oxford and the University of
Edinburgh.

J. Richard Uhlig I

is sorry that he will not be able to
attend the reunion in May, but he
failed to convince his niece to
postpone her planned wedding by
even a week.

E. Brent Wells Il

moved to the Atlanta area in order
to serve as the regional director for
IKON Office Solutions.

Robert L. Wheelock III
founded ‘Irinity River Capital
Ventures L.L.C., a Dallas-based
merchant-banking firm with
offices in San Diego, Los Angeles
and Seattle.

OO 1964—S»

F. William Burke (‘67L)

and his wife, Susan, crossed the
ocean on the QE2 with J. Elmo
Markham Jr. °64. Burke says
Markham’s serenade with the
orchestra was the highlight of the
trip.

E. Cotton Rawis Jr.
is doing volunteer work and enjoy-
ing himself.

Dr. Peter S. Trager
was elected chairman of the
Georgia Section of the American

Fe OE ee ee ee nee

 

 

In January 2003, five of Washington and Lee’s Rhodes Scholars

attended the first celebration of the 100th anniversary of the schol-

arships in Cape ‘lown, South Africa. From left to nght: Ed Johnson
°81, Ralph Smith °73, ‘Tim Vanderver ’65, Marvin “Swede”
Henberg ’70 and Jon McLin ’60. One of the notables at the event

was Nelson Mandela, the former president of South Africa.

College of Dentists. He continues
to practice dentistry in Marietta,

Ga.

So. {Og &...-S>

Richard K. Kneipper

finally fulfilled his dream of
becoming an entrepreneur after
over 32 years of law practice. With
a friend and former client, he
formed a company called Provider
Health Net Services Inc. ‘The
company provides information
technology and medical-record
outsourcing services to hospitals.

OW {O65 —C>

Charles N. Criffin Il

is the CEO of a privately held
Kuwaiti conglomerate, Alghanim
Industries, www.alghanim.com.
He lives in Kuwait City, together
with his wife, Jody, with whom he
celebrated their 36th anniversary
on Aug. 12.

Bruce S. Kramer

was awarded the 2002 Frank
Carrington Champion of Civil
Justice Award, presented by the
National Crime Victim Bar
Association. Kramer 1s employed
with the Memphis, ‘lenn., law firm
of Borod & Kramer.

Ca 456 Te
Dr. Cary B. Bokinsky
practices urologic oncology in
Richmond. His son, Eric, is a stu-

dent at W&L.

Dr. Robert L. Holt

is the senior author of a publication
Giitied .. A. .Woncent .tor.. a
Biologically Derived Parabolic
Implement Design.”

Edward B. Robertson Jr.

is working day and night for
Visteon in Germany. He reports
that his son, ‘lhomas, is in his third
year of medical school in Valencia,
Spain, and that his daughter,
Sandra, 1s back in Germany work-
ing as a landscape architect.

Jamie A. Stalnaker (‘73L)
was named one of the 2002 Legal
Elite in Virginia by Virginia
Business Monthly. He has three
grandchildren. Stalnaker lives in
Virginia Beach.

+2. § OBR 4. >

Dr. Robert B. Carter

is the principal of Caper Bridge
Elementary School in Caper
Bridge, W.Va. He serves as an
adjunct associate professor of edu-
cation at Shenandoah University in
Winchester, Va. His son, Berkeley,
is a graduate student at the
Medical College of Virginia and
daughter, Christina, is a senior at
James Madison University.

Edward B. Mitchell Jr.

retired from the New York State
Department of Correctional Ser-
vices as senior counselor after 38
years of service. He will continue
to do counseling and also work as a

 

high-school — baseball
Mitchell and his wife, Ka
in Pine Bush, N.Y. Their s
is a teacher in Pennsyly
son Craig is a junior at
University.

umpire,
ren, live
= Brian
ania, and
Villanoya

Howard L. Mocerf

joined the Chicago office of Duane
Morris L.L.P Ase partner, he wil]
continue to practice labor and
employment law.

“O 1969—_o
Richard E. Kramer
contributed several articles to the
forthcoming Tennessee Williams
Encyclopedia to be published by
Greenwood Press and also con-
tributed a scholarly essay to the
Lennessee Wilhams Annual Review.

John A. Wolf (‘72L)

is included in the 2003-04 edition
of Best Lawyers in America for his
outstanding legal skills as a con-

struction attorney. Wolf works for
Ober Kaler.

O—_- 1 9 7O ——_&

Reed B. Byrum

was selected to serve as the
Public Relations Society of
America’s 2003 president and
CEO. He heads PRSA’s 17-mem-
ber board of directors. He also
counsels pre-IPO high-technolo-
gy companies in marketing and
ethical governance.

James C. Dickinson

was listed in the 2003-04 edition of
The Best Lawyers in America.
Dickinson is an attorney at the
firm of Calfee, Halter & Griswold
L.L.P.

Dr. Robert L. Entzminger
left Rhodes College, where he
served as the T:K. Young Professor
of English since 1987, to become
provost and dean at Hendrix
College in Conway, Ark.

Stuart C. Fauber

is the president of Sun Trust Bank
in Lynchburg, Va. He also serves
on Lynchburg College’s board of
trustees. Fauber and _ his wife,
Beth, have two daughters and five
erandchildren.

James C. McElroy :
has accepted a new job as chie
investment _ officer with the
Whitney National Bank 1m New
Orleans.

 

 

 

 

stuart L. Porter
ived the Veterinary Service
a dat the 2002 annual meeting
he Virginia Veterinary Medical
0 ociation. He has been elected
Be ident of the Blue Ridge
Veterinary Association for 2003.

Dr.

pr. George A. Robertson

is the director of quality control
operations of Wyeth Vaccines. He
resides in Strasburg, Pa., with his
wife, (WO children, one horse, three
cats, two snakes and a ferret.

Bill Wiglesworth
hes high school technology

ac
S Warragul Regional

classes at
College.

Oo  1971—<>
Henry J. Blackford Ill ;
accepted a position as commercial
area executive for First Citizens
Bank in Charleston, S.C. His daugh-
ter, Blakely, graduated from David-

New Jersey Entertains

 

son College. Blackford and his wife,
Sherry, celebrated their 30th wed-
ding anniversary last August.

Nelson F. Brinckerhoff
says his law practice in Rhode
Island keeps him very busy.

C. Jackson Cartwright

is a certified barbecue judge and
an expert in the local barbecue cui-
sine of Macon, Ga.

co 1 O97 2c

Bruce P. Madison

thanks his classmate Don Weir Jr.
for helping him through the C-
school, for lining up dates for him
and, generally, for making his
undergraduate existence tolerable.

Edward C. Mooe

is president of the Virginia

Foundation of Independent Col-
leges in Richmond. His_ son,
Adam, graduated from college and

 

‘Top: Ward Dorer ’69 and his wife, Hilary, hosted the Northern New
Jersey Chapter at a July 2002 welcome party and barbecue for a spe-
a stoup of New Jersey residents: W&L graduates of 2002 and the
coming class of 2006. Bottom: In May, Brian Carroll ’78 hosted the
chapter’s eighth annual golf outing in Morristown, N.J. W&L duf-
fers lined up on the course for a photograph.

y ae Wee © ee ee | ee ee ee ane

 

is now a first-year law student at
New York University, while his
daughter, Amanda, is a junior at

NYU.

tins See 3 o>

T. Haller Jackson Ill

served as president of the
Shreveport Bar Association for
2002. He is the president of
Shreve Memorial Library, which is
currently halfway through a $50
million renewal of all library
branches.

Paul K. McClure

says his son, Paul McClure Jr. ’05,
was named W&L’s Most Out-
standing Freshman Male Athlete
at last year’s sports banquet. Paul
played in the top rankings of the
tennis team, which was ranked

No. 11 in the NCAA Dywv. III.

Cary W. Poliakoff

was elected vice chairman of the
South Carolina Forestry Commis-
sion. In his private law practice,
Poliakoff handles civil litigation,
with an emphasis on environmen-
tal litigation, and is board-certified
in civil-trial advocacy. He 1s the
author of numerous treatises, arti-
cles and seminar presentations on
environmental litigation.

J. Timothy Thompson

is the corporate vice president for
UBS Wealth Management in
Washington, D.C. He lives in
Alexandria, Va., with his wife,
Catherine. ‘Vheir daughter Cate 1s
a freshman at Roanoke College,
and daughter Beth is a freshman at
Georgetown Visitation Academy.

Hannes F. van Wagenberg
joined the Atlantic ‘Trust Com-
pany as senior vice president.

(ie 4 Ok >

Nick Wreden
has published a book entitled

Fusion Branding: How To Forge
Your Brand For The Future.

co 41 9'7 5 -—_S>

Dr. Jesse T. Mann

serves as Westminster College’s
interim vice president for academ-
ic affairs and dean of the college.
Mann has been with Westminster
since 1984.

Charles A. Stein

served two years as the president
of the medical staff of Culpeper
(Va.) Regional Hospital.

co... -§§ 9 7 6 —_c»>

John C. Berry

is chair of the Seventh District
Ethics Committee and the Virginia
Law Foundation. He has three
daughters, Anne, 16, Meredith, 14,
and Laura, 10.

Isaac A. Fisher Jr.

is a special-education liaison for
the Lincoln-Sudbury (Mass.)
Regional School District.

Col. Philip L.

Hanrahan (‘86L)

is assigned to the Army Reserve as
commander of the Ist Brigade. He
was selected to serve as assistant
division commander, support for
the 95th Division, in Oklahoma
City, and started the job in
February. Hanrahan and his wife,
Mildred, will continue to live in
Lexington, Ky., where he has his
legal practice.

Paul J. B. Murphy Ill
was promoted to chief operating
officer of the New World Restau-
rant Group. His three sons, Paul
FV, 16, Glay, 14, and. Parker, 11,
attend Colorado Academy.

Dr. Ken Dye

is director of Notre Dame’s band
and presented classmate Will
Palfrey with a glass-encased Notre
Dame band hat with the following
engraving: “William ‘T: Palfrey...
Game Day Hat... Notre Dame vs.
Florida State ... October 26, 2002”
for his logistics and fund-raising
efforts to assist the band in going to
Panama City for a performance at
an FSU football game.

Joseph Walker Il
is working in real estate develop-
ment in Columbia, S.C.

Cen: 27 Fs,

Robert M. Chiaviello Jr.
joined the Dallas office of
Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. His
practice will focus on all aspects of
intellectual property law, including
patent and trademark litigation
and prosecution.

oO § Oo 7 Oo .—_4>

William F. Bernart IV

is director of professional services
for Glovia International, a division
of Fuyitsu. He sells and imple-
ments supply-chain solutions to
strategic accounts. Bernart resides
in Charlotte, N.C., together with
his wife, Cindi, and his children,
Bill, 9, and Kate, 4.

 

 

W a

—

Ss

h

| © oiie x an-d

Ecxe WE As LU. ree |

mM AS Ge we

LZ

Atlanta Alumni Tee Off

 

Li

The first annual Atlanta Alumni Chapter Golf Tournament took

place in July 2002 in Norcross, Georgia, with the purpose of estab-

lishing a scholarship in the chapter’s name. Standing, from left to
right: Scott Prigge 92, Les Lewis 91, Andrew Gaffney 791, Bobby
Rimmer ’90, Jean Stroman Warren 791, Allen Richardson 90,
Brent Bean ’89, Brian Huber 92, Stewart Hammond 791 and Jim
Kiersky ’68. Seated in front are Wright Ledbetter ’89 and David

Fenstermacher 791.

Richard F. Huck Ill
practices law in St. Louis and
shares his art collection through
the W&L eBeta network.

C. Stephen Jones Jr.

earned his M.B.A. from High Point
University. In addition to heading
up the human-resources function
for Chandler Concrete in Burling-
ton, N.C., he is teaching under-
graduate business courses in the
evening degree program at High
Point University.

K. Scott Swope

is employed by the National
Imagery and Mapping Agency. He
also serves as the assistant football
strength coach with the University
of Maryland. He has been the
offensive coordinator for 17 years
at Wilde Lake High School in
Columbia, Md., but recently
moved to Hammond High School
to coach his son, Zachary, who is
also a quarterback. His daughter is
a deaf-studies major at ‘Towson
University. The family live in
Columbia, Md.

co See CS

Dr. Mell L. Duggan Jr.

is married and has three children.
He holds a private practice of urol-
ogy in Birmingham, Ala. He
returns to Lexington every spring

to hunt turkeys in the Blue Ridge
Mountains with John Williams ’82.

Michael J. Foley

was elected assistant secretary of
the Pennsylvania ‘Inal Lawyers
Association. He was also appointed
to the Pennsylvania Interbranch
Commission on Venue, estab-
lished by the Medical Care Avail-
ability and Reduction of Error Act
of 2002. Foley and his wife, Karen,
live in Waverly, Pa.

ae

Channing M. Hail Ill

retired from public service in July,
after serving on the Williamsburg
(Va.) City Council for eight years
and as vice mayor for four years.
He practices law with Channing
M. Hall If] PL.L.C, serves as man-
aging director of Botetourt Capital
Partners L.L.C. and invests in real
estate, together with his brother, J.
Lesslie Hall III ’86, Paul W.
Gerhardt °79, ’84L and several
Hampden-Sydney alumni.

Frank B. B. Knowlton

was elected a delegate-at-large to
the American Bar Association’s
House of Delegates. Knowlton
will serve as one of 18 delegates
nationwide. He is a partner in the
Columbia, S.C., office of Nelson
Mullins Riley & Scarborough
L.L.P.

fies Sites © ae” eee as es ae

 

Scott E. Salpeter

has successfully completed the
certification process with the
National Association of Certified
Valuation Analysts to earn his des-
ignation as an accredited valuation
analyst. Salpeter is the managing
director of Capitalink L.C.

“2. {982 ——<c>

Robert S. Carpenter
re-acquired Price Modern L.L.C,
a contract-office-furniture firm
based in Baltimore. He is presi-
dent of the company and lives in
Sparks, Md., with his wife, Missy,
and two daughters, Ali, 11, and
Megan, 8.

Earle S. Creene Jr.

reports that his wife and children
returned to Guam in mid-January
2002 after being sent home to
Virginia in the aftermath of
Supertyphoon Pongsona. ‘The
typhoon, which hit the U.S. territo-
ry in December 2001, destroyed
buildings and knocked out power
and water services across most of
the island. ‘The residents are pret-
ty much back to normal, although
many are still living in tents while
their homes are being rebuilt.

Oo 1983 ——>

Evans S. Attwell

joined the Citigroup Private Bank
in Houston, which provides clients
with comprehensive investment,
advisory and banking services as
the gateway to the vast resources
of the Citigroup companies.

James R. Black

was promoted to an associate posi-
tion at Hord Coplan Macht, a
Baltimore-based landscape-archi-
tecture and land-planning firm.
Black’s projects include the
Flaghouse Courts Recreation
Center in Baltimore and the
Selbourne House at St. Marks in
Howard County, Md.

Joseph N. Seifert III

joined First Union Insurance
Services as an account executive
specializing in group medical ben-
efits. He and his wife, Bonnie, live
in Fallston, Md., with their three
children.

Richard D. Weissman

has been named president of Miss
Dorby, a Kellwood company. With
more than 17 years of experience
in the industry, Weissman has
served in a number of apparel-
related positions, most recently as

  

president of the dress |

Perry Ellis. a

O_ 198 4-2
Lee R. Feldman
is city manager of Palm Bay, Fla

Lt. Col. Parker B.
Schenecker

assumed command of the 235th
Base Support Battalion in Ans-
bach, Germany, last June. The bat-
talion is responsible for Providing
municipal services to more than
8,500 Americans living in the
Ansbach/Katterbach/Hlesheim
areas.

Charles C. Sherrill Jr.

is a commercial real estate apprais-
er with Sherrill Appraisal Gom-
pany. He lives in Pensacola, Fla,
with his wife, Angela, and their
three children.

OW 198s eee
Dr. C. Bryan Balazs
has been named one of the lead
system engineers for the Stockpile
Surveillance Group at Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory, in
California.

James T. Berry Jr.

is senior director of corporate
financial planning for Belo
Corporation’s largest property, 7he
Dallas Morning News, the coun-
try’s seventh-largest newspaper.

Charles R. DePoy

is a director of Synergy Consulting
Inc., which is a subsidiary of
American Management Systems
Inc. He spent much of May 2002 in
Germany and France, of which he
reports that Dusseldorf and Koln
were highlights and that he thought
often of professors Stephenson,
Youngblood and Follo.

Timothy J. Mulreany

left his partnership at Anderson &
Quinn L.L.C. in Rockville, Md., to
accept a position as a senior trial
attorney in the Division of En-
forcement at the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission
Washington, D.C.

George N. Seavy
earned a degree in osteopathic
medicine from the Philadelphia
College of Osteopathic Medicine.

Da 1986—=—"

Lawrence S. Anker J
is employed with Ashland Speci ty

Chemical Co. as project manage! in

 

 

bm gotten and

i —arers

MMos As Gh wae

I

 

 

ndustrial Division. He
n Sparta, N.J., with his
and their daughters,
Josie. He visited
Lexington for a wrestling-team

nion with Coach Franke in
januaty 2002 and says that the cam-

pus looks great

Dr John-Paul! Bouffard

eutenant colonel in the
Air Force and is a neuropathologist
stationed at the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology in Washing-
son, D.C. He lives in German-
crown, Md., with his wife, Melissa,
and their three sons, Ben, Joe and

its Drew .
enjoys life 1
wife, Wendy.

Abbi and

iS now a li

Sam.

jeffrey S. Britton

was named area manager of the
New Jersey region of Brown-
Forman wine estates. He lives in
the East together with his wife,
Jane Lynn, and two children,
Ashley, 3, and William, 1.

Dr. Guy A. Caldwell

is an assistant professor in the
department of biological sciences at
the University of Alabama in
Tuscaloosa, where since 1999 he
has held an undergraduate research
professorship from the Howard
Hughes Medical Institute. Cald-
well has many grants for his
research on Parkinson’s disease, and
his lab was selected as one of only
11 labs worldwide to represent the
research goals of the Michael J. Fox
Foundation for Parkinson’s Re-
search. He was also chosen as the
recipient of a Career Award from
the National Science Foundation,
the most prestigious honor it
bestows on young faculty.

Julian Hennig III

will appear in the 2003-04 edition
of The Best Lawyers in America in
the area of corporate, mergers and
acquisitions and securities law.

William F. Jones Jr.

sold his company, Terra Systems, in
Charlotte, N.C., and moved to
Asheville, N.C., in May 2002,
together with his wife, Jill, and his
sons Will, 4, and Henry, 2. He start-

e _— ;
danew business, Jones Mountain
Farms,

Lt. David w. Sprunt Jr.

IS a Producer of the Studio@AOL,

ew tating the design and pro-

a of AOL Search, Calendar

a . Sprunt and his wife,

they Ive in Ashburn, Va., with
iT daughter, Elizabeth, 3.

nateseihy ces

John R. Maass

earned a master’s in history from
the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro in May 2002. He 1s
enrolled in the Ph.D. program in
history at Ohio State University,
studying colonial America and mil-
itary history.

Mark L. Millar

earned his M.B.A. in international
business in May 2002 from
‘Thunderbird, in Phoenix, Ariz. He
is working for Oshkosh B’Gosh,
the children’s clothing company, in
Oshkosh, Wis., managing interna-

Pay Pare le” eee. Me meee Gee aaa

 

tional sourcing. Millar’s wife, Edie,
and children, Nora, 7, and Reed, 5,
are looking forward to snow and
winter sports.

Richard J. Pierce

is a judicial-programs administrator
for the administrative office of the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court. He
has also completed his 12th season
as an assistant high school football
coach in Harrisburg, Pa.

Michael F. Wacht

is director of communications of
the Florida Conference of the
United Methodist Church. His

responsibilities include managing
the Web, video and print commu-
nications, internal and external.

—_ ose — <>»

Lorena A. Manriquez

is a senior geotechnical engineer
for Burns, Cooley, Dennis Inc. in
Jackson, Miss. She is also in her
second year as president of the
board of the Crossroads Film

Society, which organizes the annu-
al Crossroads Film Festival and
other special events such as the
Library of Congress Film Presen-
tation ‘lour. She and her husband,
Gregg Kettles ’88, live in Jackson

 

Advertising wasn't Andrew Keller's first career choice.
When he graduated from W&L in
1992 as an English major, he planned

to attend medical school. But those
plans fell through, and he spent two
years playing in a band instead. Aptitude
tests suggested he would do well in
advertising or as a flight attendant.

Fast-forward almost a decade, and
Keller is now a vice president and associ-
ate creative director at Crispin Porter &
Bogusky, an advertising agency in Miami.
In September 2002, Keller was featured on
the cover of Adweek (see his enlarged photo,
above) for his work on the campaign for MINI
USA, the BMW-owned British car company.
CP&B’s first automotive account was not
advertised on television but on billboards, in
magazines and with Internet films.

In 2002, the MINI campaign received several awards:
“Campaign of the Year” from Creativity, “Marketer of the
Year” from Automotive News and “Guerrilla Marketer of
the Year” from Brandweek.

Keller, who has also worked on campaigns for
Sirius Satellite Radio and IKEA, couldn’t help
but say his job was fun. What excites him 1s
the opportunity to produce something differ-
ent every day. Keller gets a thrill from the range
of his work, from ‘T’V spots to beer-bottle labels.
“It’s constantly challenging, and you have to love

that challenge,” he said.

Keller married another W&L graduate, Helen
Steward ’93, in 1996. They have two-year-old twin

boys, Hunter and James.

—Melhssa Thornley

   

33
spe OP nest genet®
gen ee

  
    

we
2 5, :

   

Seger

   

i\

    
  

‘
%
i

  

i
:

 
 

\
\
‘

    
     
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

"
\
y

a

 

 

ee

with their two daughters, Virginia
and Carolina.

Christopher T. Munsey
lives in Washington, D.C., where
he works as a newspaper reporter
for Navy Times, a weekly covering
news of interest to a U.S. Navy
readership.

J. Baxter Sharp Ill

appeared in Arkansas Business, a
weekly business newspaper, in the
“40 under 40” listing for those who
show potential in business or poli-
tics. He is the president and a part-
ner of Sharp & Sharp, a family law
practice in Brinkley, Ark.

Swen A. Voekel

is an assistant professor of English
at Wheelock College in Boston
and a lecturer in history and litera-
ture at Harvard University. He
teaches primarily Renaissance lit-
erature, after having learned to
love Spenser and Shakespeare in
courses with Professor Ed Craun.

oO. § 9 89 —~G>

Michael D. Drusano

works for the Real Estate Capital
Markets Group of Legg Mason in
Baltimore.

John J. Cunkel

is the director of the Honors
College at Rutgers-Newark, an
innovative program for high-
achieving students that combines
experimental and classroom learn-
ing for some 320 students.

Lt. Cdr. Michael C.
Holifield

is executive officer for the Naval
Legal Service Office Southeast.
‘The Jacksonville-based command
includes offices in South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Puerto Rico and
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Holifield
was also selected for the Navy’s
Funded Post-Graduate Education
Program and hopes to spend next
year at UVA obtaining a L.L.M. in
international law. He and his wife,
Lee Rorrer Holifield ’93, spend
their free time restoring old homes
and trying to keep track of their
four dachshunds.

Anna Hampton Salas

and her family bid Madrid farewell
and relocated to Oviedo, a small
city in the north of Spain, Known
for its lush green landscapes and
good food and cider. Her daugh-
ters, Isabel and Cristina, enjoy the
wonderful activities in particular.

“Oi 2 OOo 64

Laura C. Baldwin

left clinical practice last year after
accepting a position as an investi-
gator with the Department of
Health Professions for the com-
monwealth of Virginia. She resides
in southwest Virginia.

James T. Busenlener

was named a partner in the law
firm of Larzelere, Picou, Wells,
Simpson & Lonero L.L.C., locat-
ed in Metairie, La. Busenlener
practices energy- and maritime-
related insurance coverage and
defense litigation. He and his wife,
‘Tanya, have two children, Ashley,
5, and Andrew, 3.

H. Wesley Coings lil

will participate in the Mississippi
Economic Council’s 2002-03
Leadership Mississippi program.
The program identifies young
leaders up to the age of 40 and
helps them discover and develop
leadership skills that can be used
to make a positive impact on the
future growth and development of
their state and local communities.

Stacy L. Morrison

is the executive editor of Marie
Claire magazine in New York City.
Her husband, Chris Shannon, is a
lead programmer at CNN/Money.

Martha Smith Welmaker
was elected partner at Andrews &
Kurth L.L.P. Her practice focuses
on finance and real estate in the
firm’s Houston office.

OW 2 BO t

Laura C. Taylor

is working in the admissions and
development offices at North
Cross School in Roanoke, Va.

Tucker M. Walsh

is an equity portfolio manager at
State Street Research 1n Boston.
He has a one-year-old son, Parker.

“2... § 9 9 2 —__S.”»

Kevin A. Bauer

and his wife, Holly, moved to
Burlingame Park, Ca. Bauer still
works for Credit Suisse First
Boston’s technology investment
banking group 1n Palo Alto.

Dr. Jay C. Fertile

completed a fellowship in muscu-
loskeletal radiology at the Univer-
sity of Virginia in 2001 and now
holds a radiology position in a pri-
vate practice in Charlottesville.

A LU MN I N E,W S

Peter E. Klingelhofer

ran the Napa Valley Marathon on
March 3, 2002, with Paul Garrett,
father of Jacob ’98 and Juliann
03. While on the left coast, he
also caught up with fellow Betas
Rich Weinstein ’91 and Kevin
Bauer 792.

Spencer Y. Patton

joined Wells Real Estate Funds in
the acquisition department. He
will be acquiring office and indus-
trial properties, focused on the
Midwest.

Dr. Michael J. Sebesta

is a chief resident in urology at
Brooke Army Medical Center in
San Antonio. He was promoted to
the rank of major last spring and
expects to stay at least seven more
years in the Army.

co... 185 —.--C>

Dr. J. Holt Crews

finished his ob/gyn residency in
Jackson, Miss., and is going to
Belize for a year with his wife,
Sydney, and their three sons, Holt,
Elkin and David, to do medical

mission work.

Walton Eagan Foster

and her husband, Key ’93, have
moved to Nashville, ‘Tenn., where
he accepted a job as vice president
of corporate finance and investor
relations at Gaylord Entertain-
ment. She is staying at home with
their son, Key IV.

Dr. Elizabeth A. Kleiner
started her residency in internal
medicine at the Medical College
of Virginia, in Richmond.

William H. Morrow
joined the law firm of Lightfoot,
Franklin & White L.L.C., in

Birmingham, Ala.

Reid A. Murphy

is in the master’s program of urban
and environmental planning at the
University of Virginia. He and his
wife, Angie Carrington Murphy
94, live in Charlottesville with
their two children, Carrington, 5,
and Mallory, 1.

J. Bradley Powell (‘96L)
joined the law firm of Lightfoot,
Franklin & White L.L.C.

O&A 44

Matthew J. Appel
graduated with an M.B.A. from the
University of Washington last

 

June. In December, he
the Seattle Marathon, h

Completed —

: | iS first, Hj
wife, Katie Lenker Appel 95 _

a volunteer at the race.

i. Benjamin Eggleston Ir

is in his first year as an assistan
professor of Philosophy at ial
University of Kansas. ;

Keith E. Crant

graduated from Army basic train-
ing at Fort Knox, Ky. He js now
engaged in the 15-month training
for the New York Army National
Guard at the Officer Candidate
School, while getting back to his
civic job as a senior editor with

Herald Newspapers on Long
Island.

William S. Crant Il

was elected to a local Advisory
Neighborhood Commission in the
District of Columbia. Member-
ship on the commission is a non-
partisan, locally elected office,
which looks at close-to-home
issues such as trash cleanup, rat
abatement, traffic flow, zoning
requests and more.

Lt. John D. Hudson

transferred to the U.S.S. George
Washington (a nuclear-powered air-
craft carrier) at the end of
September 2002, where he will be
serving in the supply department.
His family (wife, Lor, and kids,
Jake and Avery) moved to Virginia
Beach. Hudson reports that all is
great and that the move is a wel-
come change from hectic Washing-
ton, D.C. They visited Lexington
in August 2002 for the Chi Psi
National Convention and the dedi-
cation of the flagpole in front of Chi
Psi in honor of Cmdr. Rob Schlegel
°85, who was killed in the Pentagon
attack on Sept. 11, 2001.

Dr. John E. Kleckley
is in his first year of ob/gyn rest-
dency at New Hanover Regional
Medical Center in Wilmington,
N.C. He graduated from the
University of South Carolina
School of Medicine in Columbia
last May.

Lev M. Morozov
and his wife, Joy, moved to Zurich
at the end of last year. He manages
a technology fund for a Swiss
investment boutique. Morozoy
reports that the quality of life *
Zurich is excellent, and he highly
recommends Switzerland to all fel-
low alumni, as long as they can tol-
erate closed shops on Sunday.

 

Washing tie s

and

Mo AS  @ eZ

I

 

  

a

michelle B. Washington
oan her sixth year as a reporter
f . the Fayetteville (N.C.) Ob-
-_ and won first- and _third-
' Jace awards in a state press Com-
Si ion. She and her husband,
Pm, are excited to make their first
trip t0 Paris, where she intends to
meuce ber now extremely
but hopes that she

” French,
rusty 3
has retained some of Professor

AG. Fralin’s instruction.

m— 1995—<“>
Kelly L. Brotman
moved to Boston, where she is
reaching philosophy and theology
in an undergraduate service-learn-
ing program at Boston College.
Brotzman enjoys the change of
scenery and is happy to be a spec-
rator at Division II football games.
Over the summer months, she
caught up with classmates at the
wedding of Kerry Egan 95 and
Alex Ruskell 94 in Lexington and
at Beth Provanzana’s °95 baby
shower in Chicago.

A. Grace Browder

is working on a master’s in marine
science from the Virginia Institute
of Marine Science at William and
Mary.

Theodore W. Dimitry

graduated with an M.B.A. from
Rice University and joined the cor-
porate insurance broker and risk-

Post-Grad

consulting firm of McGriff, Seibels
& Williams in Houston.

James M. Durbin

enlisted in the Army National
Guard last October 2001, joining
two other members of his fraterni-
ty pledge class in serving in the
armed forces. He attended the
basic training in February 2002
and will continue with the OCS,
where he wants to focus on mili-
tary intelligence. He would like to
thank his friends and the entire
W&L community for their ongo-
ing support and encouragement.

Charles M. Ferguson
proudly reports that his ‘Texas con-
struction company, Caprock Inc., is
a finalist for the 2002 Better
Business Bureau’s ‘Torch Award
For Marketplace Ethics.

Matthew M. Haar

was been appointed to the
Pennsylvania Corporation Bureau
Advisory Committee. ‘The com-
mittee advises the governor and
the general assembly regarding the
registration and regulation of cor-
porations and other associations.
Haar 1s an associate 1n the litigation
department in Saul Ewing’s

Harrisburg office. He concentrates
his practice in corporate and com-
mercial litigation.

 

 

Members of the class of 1997—-Nick Renwick, Peder Hagberg,
Laura Perry, Jake Blair, Erika Snyder and Jay Johnson—yjour-
Heyed through Spain in September 2002 aboard their faithful

EuroVan,

affectionately known as

ane

Jumper.”

Ac - .
“ompanying them was a graduate of the University of Ari-

Zz
ona, Logan Howcott.

jee a! a” ee ae

 

Cregory R. Lynch

was promoted to project director
at Genactis Inc., a global pharma-
ceutical market-research compa-
ny. When not working, Lynch still
enjoys telling jokes, playing golf
with Robert Rambo ’92 at the
‘Torresdale-Frankford Country
Club in Philadelphia and talking
sports with John B. Phifer ’93. He
and his wife, Dana, had a great
time attending the wedding of
Lee Higgins 795 last fall.

A. Wright Marshall IV
celebrated the anniversary of his
own company, Revival Construc-
tion, on June 1. ‘The company ren-
ovates and restores older homes in
the. Atlenta..acca; « He...spent
Memorial Day in ‘Texas celebrat-
ing David Danielson’s *95 30th
birthday, together with Jeff
‘Tibbals °95, Jeff McElroy 795,
James Jennings 793, ‘Thomas
Kennedy ’94 and Ashley Bell ’96.

Elizabeth N. Murphey
received a master’s of science
degree in mass communications

from the University of Southern
Mississippi with a 4.0 GPA.

fe LOSSES +.

Dr. Andrew W. Bidwell
is practicing emergency veterinary
medicine in Auburn, Wash.

Kelly R. del Campo
completed her first year as director
of development and public rela-
tions at the Central Virginia
Foodbank, in Richmond. She is
moving to a new house in
February, while planning to take
the next five to seven years to
complete an M.B.A. at Virginia
Commonwealth University.

Thomas A. Esposito Jr.
works for MBNA as a financial
analyst and is attending M.B.A.
classes at the University of
Delaware in the evenings.

David H. Fosgate

is working for Harris ‘Teeter Inc. in
the company’s real estate develop-
ment department in Charlotte,

N.C.

Michael L. Hewlett

has been a_ Forsyth County
reporter with the Winston-Salem
(N.C.) Journa/ since last June. He
previously worked as city hall
reporter for the News @ Advance
in Lynchburg, Va. He has worked
with Amy Frazier ’99 on both
occasions.

Dr. Anna K. Mirk
started her final year of residency
in internal medicine in ‘Tacoma,
Wash. She doesn’t know where the
Army will send her next, but hopes
to get back to Virginia.

Craig C. Sears

reports that his pool business 1s still
doing very well. ‘The company ts in
the process of moving offices to a
new building due to continued
growth. Sears plans to build his
own pool, where he can run train-
ing courses year-round and start
various aquatic programs. He
would love to hear from any other
class of °96 alumni in the Atlanta
area.

William W. Townes VI

is a project manager with
Yellowstone ‘Iraditions, a custom
home builder in Bozeman, Mont.
‘The company specializes in his-
toric-ranch redevelopment and the
use of logs and recycled materials.
In his free time, ‘lownes enjoys
woodworking, skiing and hosting a
bluegrass show on a local alterna-
tive radio station.

Dr. Ray M. Van Metre

is in his third year of residency in
otolaryngology and head and neck
surgery at West Virginia University.

Dr. Nicholas Waddy

is an assistant professor in the
department of social and behav-
ioral sciences at Alfred State
College in Alfred, N.Y. He teaches
courses in western civilization,
minority cultures and cross-cultur-
al encounters.

SQ FOOT —- o>

Sara L. Benson

received an M.B.A. from Duke in
June of 2002. She moved to New
York City, where she works in
investment banking with
Deutsche Bank.

Christopher W. Haden
joined the Louisville office of
Stites & Harbison. He is a member
of the firm’s business-litigation ser-
vice group.

Joel C. Honts

and his wife, Marthe ’97, are set-
tling down to life in the “big” city
of Roanoke, Va. She graduated
from the University of Virginia
with a master’s and 1s very proud to
be a Wahoo. He continues his
work in the criminal justice system
as a police officer in Vinton, Va.
‘Their 14-month-old son, Logan,

 

 

a

Coe Me ALU Mon

DA. AG Ge A eZ

“takes after both parents, with a
mind of his own.”

H. Brooks Hooper

gave up his life as a chef to start
medical school at the Medical
University of South Carolina, in
Charleston. He has yet to get back
to Lexington since graduating, but
has had a chance to see a few old
friends from time to time. More
than a few of his MUSC classmates
are also W&L alumni.

Ashley A. La Forge

is a hydrologist for the Bureau of
Land Management in the Oregon
Coast Range. She loves Oregon,
especially because of all the hiking
opportunities that the area offers.

Dr. Anthony J. Mazzarelli

created the Health Outreach
Program, a nationally recognized
clinic for the medically uninsured,
and has established a program in
which third- and fourth-year stu-
dents can treat patients and learn
about inner-city health-care needs.

Dr. John T. Poole Ill
graduated from the Medical
University of South Carolina’s
College of Dental Medicine in
May 2002. He has been commis-
sioned as a lieutenant in the U.S.
Navy Dental Corps and will be sta-
tioned in Pensacola, Fla., for a gen-
eral residency this year.

Paul D. Saboe

and his wife, Lyndsey, live in
Hendersonville, ‘Tenn., just out-
side Nashville. He teaches world
history to freshmen and advises
student council and Model UN at
Pope John Paul If High School.
‘They have two dogs, Dusty and
Lily.

Trevor V. Stockinger
moved to Jackson, Miss., after
eraduating from Loyola of Los
Angeles Law School. He 1s work-
ing as a law clerk for Judge Rhesa
Barksdale on the federal court of
appeals and will return to Los
Angeles in one year to practice
trademark and copyright litigation
at Irell & Manella. During his stay
in Jackson, Miss., he looks forward
to meeting Steve Frame °97 in
Oxford for the occasional Ole Miss
game.

Christi M. Wooldridge

completed her first year of busi-
ness school at Rice University,
interned at Dyke Energy in
Houston and is now back at school

with the added responsibility of
being the national director of
Graduate Women in Business.
Wooldridge had the opportunity to
meet other W&L alumni at Keith
Howell’s 97 wedding in Hartwell,
Ga., and at the wedding of Aloise
Bozell °96, ’O1L, and Derek
Vansant °96 in Annapolis, Md.

O— 1998 —o

Dr. Rebecca L. Bagdonas
started a medicine internship at
North Shore University Hospital
in Manhasset, N.Y. Bagdonas
matched in anesthesiology for July
2003 at Columbia Presbyterian
Hospital in New York City.

Zachary T. Lee

is a clerk for ‘The Hon. James P.
Jones of the United States District
Court for the Western District of
Virginia in Abingdon, Va.

Dr. Mary E. Pressly
graduated from medical school in
May of 2002. She is now in her
pediatrics residency at the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

Justin Riedell

will be trading his five-year career
as a banker in New York for busi-
ness school at Dartmouth. Starting
in the fall of 2002, he will be
enrolled at Dartmouth’s ‘luck
School of Business. Until then, he
is taking a place in East Hampton
for the summer and will be spend-
ing a few weeks traveling to
Australia, New Zealand and Fiji.

Dr. Christian A. Stevens
eraduated from the University of
Alabama School of Dentistry in
June 2002 and is enjoying private
practice in Birmingham, Ala.

Dr. Brian J. White

eraduated from Georgetown
Medical School. He has begun his
residency in orthopedics at the
New York University Hospital for
Joint Diseases, Department of
Orthopaedic Surgery, in New York
City.

O— 1999 ——o>

Richard J. Burrice
started with UBS PaineWebber in
Louisville, Ky., on April 1, 2002.

M. Kara Hill

is a first-year law student at
Campbell University School of
Law.

A LU M NN. It N E W S

Reed C. Kuhn

is living in Arlington, Va., where he
works for a scientific consulting
firm while pursuing part-time a
master’s in engineering from the
University of Virginia. With the lit-
tle free time that he has left, the
D.C. social scene offers plenty to
keep him busy.

E. Armistead Lemon

moved from New York to Chapel
Hill to begin the graduate program
in English at the University of
North Carolina.

Leed C. Silverfield

has joined Silverfield Develop-
ment Company. ‘he company 1s
involved in retail and residential
development in northern Florida.

Amanda J. Stallard

is thrilled to have passed the Ohio
bar and been offered the first open
attorney's spot at the Franklin
County prosecutor’s office. She
loves her job and 1s very happy in
Columbus. She had a great time
visiting with the girls of Cemetery
Ridge over New Year’s and looks
forward to visiting Molly
McGregor ’99, who is attending
the London School of Economics.

Lauren K. Weedon

was promoted to senior editor of
Seventeen magazine’s Web site.
Weedon has also started freelanc-
ing for Marie Claire magazine.
Her first article, “Love and the
Average Joe,” appeared in the
March 2003 issue. She interviewed
five men named Joe, with Joe Kerr
99 being one of them.

—. SONS... >

Megan C. Hobbs
is working in ‘I'V sales for BBC
Worldwide.

Joyce K. Lee

is a second-year medical student at
the University of South Carolina
School of Medicine.

Katherine M. Riddle
teaches seventh grade at St.
Stephen’s and St. Agnes School in
Alexandria, Va., where she is
coaching basketball and lacrosse.

J. Turner Vosseller
is a third-year medical student at
Georgetown Medical School.

Elizabeth H. Watkins
is the director of development for
Project GRAD Columbus, an edu-

 

cational non-profit IZation ;
Columbus, Ohio. ee
oe Heather Welder
attended the weddings of
Sheppard ’00 to Tohacball laa
95 and Sarah Hall ’00 to Brysell
Datt ’00. Welder then returned a
Armenia to continue Working for
World Vision Armenia, where she
has been the program officer, raijs-
ing funds and planning humanitar-
1an projects for almost two years
Last summer Warren Hedges °00)
and Nancy Rhinehart 03 Joined
her in the Caucasus region of the
former Soviet Republic.

Charles B. Westerman IJ
lives in Manhattan, where he pre-
sents commercial photographs
specializing in advertising and cor-
porate communications,

O__ 2001 — a
Walter W. Baker
is working for Green Park Financial,
a financer/lender of multi-family
properties, in Bethesda, Md. He
lives in Washington.

Frances P. Croberg
enjoyed her first year at Emory
Law School in Atlanta.

O—_- 2002 a

John M. Robb Ill
teaches eighth-grade English at
North Cross School in Roanoke.

MARRIAGES

 

H. Christopher Peacock 82 to
Michelle Mallory on Oct. 28, 2002,
in Alexandria, Va. The couple live
in San Jose, Calif., where he works
in corporate public relations for
Cisco Systems.

Patrick H. Reynolds '83 to Karen
Allston on Sept. 1, 2002, at the
Point Defiance State Park in
Tacoma, Wash. Members of the
wedding party included Dick
Latture, Gordon Lewis, Bishop
Norris, all three from the class of
81; Stephen Burrington, Jim
Brockelman, both °82; David
Smith, Eric Fife, Chris Bouquet
all ’83; ‘Tony Keast, ‘Tom Rohrig,
Mel Cote, all ’84; and finally, Sean
Reynolds 90.

Stewart T. Shettle 84 to Jan D.
Marlay on Nov. 23, 2002, on
Amelia Island, Fla. Petet
Baumgaertner ’83, “86L served as
the best man. The couple reside in
Baltimore.

 

Ww -aisth 4 oe gitee om

and

fee Wa AtuMmNt

M. “A = @: 2A 22

I

 

Curry 11 '87 to Melissa

Id L. .
Kober on June 25, 2002, in
calc, Hawaii. Members of the

Siding party included Andrew
W P

27. The couple reside
lo., where he serves
9s a supervisory air-traffic-control
specialist with the Federal
Aviation Administration, and she is
. kindergarten teacher with the
Denver public schools.

Jartaglione
in Denvel, Co

Richard B. Robins Jr. ‘88 to Ruth
Boyd on April 6, 2002, in Charlotte,
N.C. Groomsmen included David
Arkinson °88 and Robert Jones ’88.

crattan T. Brown 90 to Julie
DeSnyder on Sept. 1, 2008, “in
Plattsburgh, N.Y. Brown works at
the American Enterprise Institute
for writer and scholar Michael
Novak. His colleague is Michael

Leaser 99.

Dr. Robert B. Boswell ‘91 to
Alison Pratt on Sept. 21, 2002, on
Bald Head Island, N.C. ‘They live
in Wilmington, N.C., where he is
in practice.

Maj. Loretta Vandenberg ’9I to
Dr. Tracy Braun in August 2002 in
Las Vegas, the bride’s hometown.
The couple reside in Okinawa,
Japan, where she serves as the
deputy assistant chief of staff G-6
for the Marines’ Third Force
Service Support Group.

Patricia S. Carr '91 to Harry
Francis Cocciolo III on June 8,
2002, in Banner Elk, N.C.
Classmates in attendance included
Franklin Daniels, Richard Martz,
Richard Spence, Laurel Empie,
Mignon Crockard Poyer and ‘Tara
Perkinson. She is an account direc-
tor at Goodby, Silverstein and
Partners, an advertising agency in
San Francisco. He is a creative
director at the same company. The
couple live in Mill Valley, Calif.

Dr. Douglas B. Brown '92 to
Marni Antrim on Aug. 25, 2001, in
Eagle, Pa. He received his doctor-
ate degree in biochemistry and
molecular biology from ‘Thomas
¢tferson University in Philadel-
Phia last June and is a research sci-
“nust who evaluates the efficacy of
Photoprotective compounds _per-
“ining to solar skin aging and

‘ ‘mage for DakDak Photoaging
©chnologies,

David s. Phillips '92 to Kimberly

Norfolk, . ton Aug. 3, 2002, in

Emily Hughes McClintock '92 to
Jared Albert Ray on June 1, 2002,
at the bride’s former home in
‘Tunica, Miss. ‘The couple reside in
Boise, Idaho, where she will
receive her bachelor’s of fine arts at
Boise State University.

Tonia Bean '92 to ‘Tim Schneider
on Aug. 11, 2002, in Golden, Colo.

Melissa Philipps '93 to Dr. Paul
Estil Caldwell III on May 4, 2002,
in Richmond, where they live.
Members of the wedding party
included Susie Wooton 793,
Ramona Franks Hagmaier 793,
Elizabeth Mason Horsely ’94L
and Cecelia Philipps Horner ’90.
She is an occupational therapist,
and he is a fourth-year orthopedic
surgery resident at the Medical
College of Virginia.

John H. Cross Ill '93 to Jennifer
Ann Cain in June 2002. They
moved to Connecticut, where he is

a research analyst for Oracle
Partners L.L.C.

Richard E. Hill Jr."93 to Consuela
Van Seters on Oct. 26, 2002, in
Williamsburg, Va., where he
opened his own law practice.

Dr. Claire Dudley '93 to Mark
Wilkiemeyer on Nov. 2, 2002, in
New Orleans. Members of the
wedding party included many
W&L alumni, especially from the
class of ’93.

Heather Edwards '94 to Paul
Murphy on May 11, 2002, in
Manasquan, N.J. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Allison Lewis West, Jay West and
Lillis Allison Pipes. In attendance
were Casey Pipes, Molly Apter,
Julie ‘Townsend, Holly Simmons
South, Sarah Smith Chapman,
Andrea Cobrin Hester, Eve
McDonald Boger and Liz Storey
Givens, all members of the class of
93. ‘The couple are attorneys.

Stuart M. Christhilf IV 96 to
Jamie Johnson on Nov. 23, 2002, in
Charlotte, N.C. Members of the
groom’s party included classmates
Lee Goins, David Jennings, Brad
Vineyard and Justin Dardani. Lisa
Brown ’95 was a member of the
bride’s party.

Christa L. Kirby "96 to Daniel
Schott on Aug. 11, 2001. ‘The cou-
ple live in Philadelphia, where she
is an attorney with the firm of
Stradley, Ronon, Stevens and
Young.

A LU MN It N E WwW S

 

J. Mason New '96 to Melissa
Foote "98 on Aug. 24, 2002, in
Washington, D.C.

E. Ainsley Fisher '96 to Matthew
‘Tillman on Dec. 14, 2002. She
works at the law firm Buist, Moore,
Smythe & McGee in Charleston,
S.C. The couple bought a house,
which she suspects will become a
money pit. In attendance at the
wedding were Ellen Wasilausky
"96; 99L,, “Meg Randal 96,
Catherine Cardullo °96, Joanne
Lyman Perkins ’96, Dan Felton
95 and Mary Lynn King 796.

Jonathan H. Bartlett '97 to April
Cheney on Aug. 10, 2002, in Lee
Chapel. Members of the wedding
party included classmates
Kathleen Menger, Catherine
Avant Jones, Anne Van Auken,
Amy Shaw, Caroline Powell and
Ben Swinburne. He attends busi-
ness school at the University of
North Carolina.

Kathryn E. Sheppard '97 to
Oliver W. Hoar '97 on Nov. 2,
2002, at Caneel Bay in St. John,
U.S.V.L. Members of the wedding
party included Heather Sheppard
Lunn ’00, Samantha Hollomon
LaFleur ’95, Francie Cohen Spahn
95, John-Paul Lunn °95, James
Silberstein ’97 and Sam Rosen ’97.
Guests included Mallory Meyers
95, Faith ‘Truman 795, Jane
Finney Schnupp 795, Lisa Smith
Jones °97, David Jones ’97, Jared
Spahn °97, Richard Cobbs ’97,
Shan and Brooke Glenn Mullin,
both °97, Brad Flaster ’97 and
‘Trevor Ulbrick 97.

Melissa Courson '97 to Hugh
Padgett Robinson Wilson on Nov.
3, 2001, in Atlanta. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Heath Acuff, Elizabeth Bissell,
Maggie Ogilvie and _ Alison
Simmons. ‘The couple live in
Alexandria, Va., and both work in

Washington, D.C.

Jenny Williams '98 to David
Foster '98 on June 29, 2002, in
Alta, Utah. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
Leighton Kirby, Bjornen duPont,
Eric Zavolinsky and Jake
Blumenthal. ‘The couple live in
Philadelphia, where he is working
on a law degree at the University
of Pennsylvania, and she continues
to teach high school English.

Amanda Celeste Bradford '98
to Bryan Hutchinson Roberts on
Sept. 7, 2002. Catherine Moore ’99

was a member of the wedding
party. The couple live in
Washington, D.C., where she
works for Deloitte & ‘Touche.

Cregory R. Ruthig "98 to Marion
Bond on Sept. 21, 2002, in
Chicago. Groomsmen included
Brent Hilpert ’98, Will Olson °98
and Z. ‘Taylor Shultz ’98. ‘The cou-
ple reside in Charlottesville, where
Ruthig is studying for a doctorate
in biology at the University of
Virginia.

Z. Taylor Shultz '98 to Melissa
Bezanson on Aug. 24, 2002, in Lee
Chapel. Members of the wedding
party included Glenn F: Miller 98,
Richard Ely °98 and ‘Todd Burkey
"95, “98L.. She is the daughter of
former W&L Law School dean
Randy Bezanson.

Dr. Christy Meade '98 to Jerrad
Strand on June 1, 2002, at the
Canyons Resort in Park City, Utah.
She graduated from the University
of Utah Medical School in May
2002 and is a pediatrics intern at
the University of Utah’s Primary
Children’s Medical Center.

Jennifer Lynne Buckey "98 (‘OIL)
to Christopher Burton Wick °97
COOL) on August 24. Members of
the bridal party included Dale
Pearson Beardsley ’01L, James
Pope Christovich 7°97, Burns
Griffin Lewis ’01L, Cameron
Connelly Wick ’06 and Lindsay
Alecia Wood 798.

Michael Beakley '99 to Megan
Snodgrass '99 on July 20, 2002,
in Greensburg, Pa. Members of
the wedding party included class-
mates Sue Osnato, Paul Shea and
Hansell Pasco ’00. The couple live
in DeSoto, ‘Texas.

Rebecca Renee Cuny '00 to
Stephen Daniel Marsh on Aug. 24,
2002, in Danville, Ky. Members of
the wedding party included Kelley
Gilbert ’00, Cavelle Johnston ’00
and Dafnette Prothro ’01 as the
assembly’s soloist. ‘he couple
began their studies at the
Covenant Theological Seminary in
St. Louis last fall.

Kelly Stewart ’0O to Jason
Nichols 00 on July 6, 2002, in Blue
Springs, Mo. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
Nancy Drxon, Sean Eddy, Matt
Everitt, Megan Fink, Warren
Hedges, Jill Kosch, J.T! Malatesta,
Jim McKnight, Alison Ralston, Ben
‘Thompson and Gerald ‘Titus. He is

 

Wachee © gts

an d

Mi ASG IAS Ze I

Nie E

a prospect research analyst for
W&L development, and she is the
service learning coordinator for
W&Us Shepherd Poverty Program.

Oleta Carrett ‘OO to John
‘Thompson on July 20, 2002, in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

Patrick J. Renton ‘Ol to Susan E.
Croves 'OI on Dec. 21, 2002, in
Lee Chapel. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
Angela Roman, Alison Cartwright,
Jason Giffen, Brian Stsser, John
Valentine and Michael Miraglia
01. Many other classmates were
also in attendance. ‘The couple live
in Richmond, where he is attend-
ing the Medical College of
Virginia. She is enrolled at the
University of Virginia School of
Law.

Charron Hodges '02 to Anthony
Montgomery on Aug. 3, 2002, in
Lexington, Va.

Emily B. Dixon '02 to John P.
Zimmer '00 on June 29, 2002, in
North Augusta, S.C. ‘The couple
live in Boston, where he is pursu-
ing a Ph.D. in chemistry at MIT,
and she is an actuarial associate at
the consulting firm of ‘lowers
Perrin.

 

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas H. Seitz
’80, triplets, Charles, Caroline and
Delaney, on April 6, 2002. ‘Chey
join two sisters, Maggie and ‘Tori.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles F.
Randolph '82, a son, Charles
James, on Dec. 12, 2001. He joins
three sisters, Clarisse, 7, Caralie, 4,
and Carynn, 2. Randolph is a
senior vice president for ABN
AMRO Bank in Chicago. ‘The
family live in Wilmette, III.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hartz’83,
a daughter, Vivian Elizabeth, on
March 25, 2002. She joins their two
dogs. ‘The family live in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Eugene
Jones '83 (’87L), a son, Spencer
Pearson, on April 27, 2002. He
joins brother Jacob Persinger, 5.
Eugene is a partner with Miller,
Stratvert & ‘Torgerson in Santa Fe,
N.M.

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Harcus
'84, a daughter, Faith Elizabeth,
on April 10, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Roy F. Unger Jr.'85,
a son, Zachary Bryant, on Sept. 23,
2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Hubbard
'86, a daughter, Ginger Elizabeth,
on June 29, 2002. She joins two
brothers, Colin, 5, and Giles, 2.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher R.
Carter '87, a daughter, Isabel
Hutto, on Aug. 27, 2002.

Dr. and Mrs. H. Baltzer LeJeune
’87, a son, Hudson David, on
March 12, 2002. He joins siblings
Alexandra, 7, and Graham, 4. ‘he
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher S.
Lynch '87, a son, Charles, on Dec.
13, 2001. ‘The family has relocated
to Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. James M. New ’87, a
son, James Henry, on April 17,
2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Van Son
'87, a son, Maxwell Gregory, on
May 18, 2002. He joins sister
Colette, 2. Van Son joined the law
firm of Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe as an associate. ‘lhe fami-
ly live in Huntington Bay, N.Y.

Mr. and Mrs. E.C. Allen Ill '88, a
daughter, Jillian Jones, on April 10,
2002. ‘They live in Ashland, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher R.
Careis ’88, a daughter, Anne
Ryan, on Oct. 7, 2002. She joins a
brother and sister. Gareis has been
appointed assistant professor of
educational leadership in the
School of Education at the College
of William and Mary, where he also
serves as associate dean.

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew
Harrington '88, a son, Benjamin,
on Nov. 14, 2000. ‘The family lives
in Zimbabwe, where he heads the
U.S. Embassy’s political section.
‘They are finishing up their third
and last year and are about to head
to their next overseas assignment.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Bradley Preston
"88, a son, Mark Daniel, on Nov.
17, 2000. He joins brothers
Andrew and William.

Mr. and Mrs. Scott D. Rippeon
88, a daughter, Sara Catherine, on
June 21, 2002. She joins a brother,
Joshua Scott, in the family’s new
home in Lewistown, Md.

A LU M NI N E.W S

 

Mr. and Mrs. Jon D. Solomon ’88,
a daughter, Victoria Nicole, on July
26, 2002. She joins brother Jacob
Andrew, 2. ‘The family live in
‘Tampa, Fla., where Solomon regu-
larly meets up with Bud Meadows
°89 and Scott Silverman ’90.

Monica Burke Moyer ’g9 a

. d
husband, Michael, a dauphil
Carolyn Faith, on Aug. 15, 2002 ;

Catherine Christian Murray’
and her husband, Jeb, a dani
Catherine Quinn, on April
2002. She joins a brother, Sam,

ter,
29,

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Sowersby
'88, a son, ‘Thomas Wilcox, on
April 17, 2002. He joins sister Cate,
4. After selling his distribution
business and taking a year off,
Sowersby made the mistake of
going back to work. He 1s the
owner and the CFO of an integrat-
ed automation company in

Maj. and Mrs. Richard S
Quagliata '89, a son, Game
Philips, on May 2, 2002. Quagliata
graduated from the Army
Command and Genera] Staff
College and is headed to Korea for
a one-year tour.

Norcross, Ga., and he also owns an Rev. and Mrs. Mark A.
assisted-living facility in Sarasota, Robertson ‘89, a daughter
Fla. Dorothea Faith, on Sept. 26, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Cregory S. Unger
'88, a daughter, Avery Helen, on
April 21, 2001.

Mr. and Mrs. F. Henry Ferris [v
"90, twin sons, William English
and Andrew Mitchell, on May 18,
2002. Ferris is the Craftsman-
brand manager for Sears, Roebuck
& Co. The family live in
Barrington, II.

Lee D. Brading '89 and Tracy
Williams Brading '89, a daugh-
ter, Gracen Wynne, on Aug. 16,
2002. She joins sister Madison
Elizabeth. ‘The family reside in
Charlotte, N.C.

Elizabeth Pryor Knapp '90 and
her husband, Charles, a son,
Charles Oliver, on Oct. 15, 2002.
Carolyn J. Garneau '89 and ‘The family reside in Lexington.
Craig Carneau ‘88, a son,
William Hodgdon, on June 13,
2001. He joins his brothers

Alexander, Frederick and Peter.

Dedra Connor Ruff '90 and her
husband, John, a son, John
Douglas, on May 18, 2001.

Mr. and Mrs. Scott T. Sanders
90, a son, Ethan Robert, on June
12, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W. Lake
lil "89, a son, Parker Venable, on
June 29, 2001. He joins a brother,
Frederick William IV, 5, and a sis-
ter, Katherine Eleanor, 3. ‘The
family visited the campus on
Memorial Day weekend in 2001
for Megan Hovda ’97 and Ben
Vanderver’s 96 wedding.

Mr. and Mrs. Joel P. Smith Jr.’90,
a daughter, Sealy Ann, on Aug. 30,
2002. She joins two brothers,
Pierce, 3, and Sellers, 2. Smith is a
partner in the Eufaula, Ala., law
firm of Williams, Potthoft,
Williams & Smith.

Elizabeth Miles Mitzlaff "89 and
her husband, Ted, a son, Miles
Houston, on May 21, 2002. He
joins twin sisters, Madison and Jr. "90, a
Hayden, 5.

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Thomas
daughter, Sofia

Alexandra, on May 2, 2002.

 
   
     
   
 

We welcome submissions for Alumni News and Class Notes Hom
alumni. Regrettably, we are unable to publish news submitted by on
parties. Please provide identification of all persons if photographs are —
sent. Color or black-and-white prints or electronic images with a -
image and good contrast reproduce best. If the image 1S emailed, .
must be 300 dpi (dots per inch) or above and arrive as a jpeg file. Pie’
mail material to Publications Editor, Washington and Lee University,
Mattingly House, Lexington, Va. 24450-0303, or email it 10 maga

zine@wlu.edu. a

 

 

 

Wa’ svh 4 “ecg the’n

and

fee Pa AtvuMNiI

M: > Ae G “A eZ] Ee

 

a

r. and mrs. Thomas J. Wing
- q daughter, Anna Schuyler, on
March 9, 2002.

Lisa Frantz Adlam ‘91 and her
arc, a son, Zane
Marcus, 0M April 29, 2002. ‘The
family traveled from their home in
Carlsbad, Calif., to Alexandria, Va.,
for Zane’s baptism, where he met
oodparents Megan and lan
Thompson 89 and their son,
Patrick, for the first time.

husband,

mr. and Mrs. David A. Blank ’9I,
qa son, Jake, on June 11, 2002. He
joins sister Samantha, 4.

Courtney ‘9! and Robert A.
Christensen '9I, a son, Coleman
Adams, on Dec. 19, 2001. He
joins siblings Jabe, 7, Jack, 5, and
Mads, 3.

mr. and Mrs. Duke A. Dillard '9I,
a son, Keaton Wallace, on May 9,
2002. He joins two brothers and
one sister.

Alisann McCloin Fatemi '91 and
her husband, Erik, a daughter,
Kathryn James, on Nov. 19, 2001.
She joins sister Caroline.

Timothy J. Halloran '9I and
Nancy Hickam Halloran "90, a
son, Henry Richmond, on Oct. 8,
2002. He is the grandson of C.W.
“Bill” Hickam °60, the nephew of
Georgiana Lee Hickam ’01 and
the great-nephew of James
Richmond Hickam ’°67 and
George Lindsay Hickam ’62.
Mommy, Daddy and Henry are
very happy and doing well at
home.

William C. Hirschman '91 and
Holly Hall ’9!, a son, Wesley, on
May 17, 2001. The family live in
Nashville, Tenn., where Hirsch-
man is managing director of NAS-
DAQ trading for a new investment
bank called Avondale Partners.
Hall is teaching horseback riding
and enjoys being a mom.

Amy Miles Kowalski '91 and her
husband, Scott, a daughter, Lily
Noel, on July 10, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Nickolas J.
Lorentzatos ‘91, a son, Luke
Fotis, July 24, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark E. Phippard

la daughter. Graysen Margaret,
on Aug. 24, 2001.

Sumner Timberlake Starling 91
nd her husband, Jeff, a son, John

“Walker,” on June 19, 2002. He
joins a sister, Jane Perry, 3. She has
retired from banking and 1s staying
with the kids at home.

J. Harley Walsh '91 and Lindsay
de Haven Walsh '9I, a daughter,
Courtney Frances, on Jan. 9, 2002.
She joins a sister, Lillian, 4. The
family moved from New York to
Washington, D.C. He works as a
legislative assistant for Sen. Kay
Bailey Hutchison (R- Texas), cov-
ering tax, finance and banking
issues. She is staying home with
the girls. “Their daughter Lillian
was in a preschool class with
Isabella, daughter of Christina
Robinson Walick 91.

Jean Stroman Warren ’9I and R.
Bland Warren '90, a daughter,
Evelyn Eaton, on May 20, 2002.
‘The family live in Huntsville, Ala.

Lovell M. West '91 and her hus-
band, Alberto Aventin, a daugh-
ter, Dalia, on July 27, 2002. ‘The
family live in Barcelona, Spain.

Dr. CG. Albert Wilkinson Jr. '9I
and Laura Hendrey Wilkinson
"92, a daughter, Brynn DeWeese,
on April 25, 2000. She joins a sister,
Jordan, 6, and a brother, Maddor, 4.
‘The family moved to York, Pa.,
where he accepted a faculty posi-
tion in the emergency room at York
Hospital.

Armando F. Benincasa '92 and
Marcy Wood Benincasa '94, a
daughter, Ana Sophia, on June 10,
2002. She joins a sister, Bianca
Victoria, 4. “The family live in
Charleston, W.Va., where he is an
attorney for the State Division of
Environmental Protection, and she
is a paralegal for the law firm of
Hill, Peterson, Carper, Bee &
Deitzler P-L.L.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Randall K. Ellis "92,
a daughter, Carolyn Nancy, on April
21, 2000. She joins twin brothers
Jackson and Ben, 6. ‘The family
reside in Richmond, where Ellis
enjoys seeing many college friends.
He sells medical equipment for
Siemens Medical Systems.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Read Folline '92,
a daughter, Lottie Vereen, on June
21, 2001, a welcome addition to her
older brothers Reed and George.
‘They live in Cola, S.C.

Carnett Wilbourn Hutton '92,
and her husband, Tom, a daughter,
Garnett Sturdivant, on March 23,
2001.

A LU MN It N E W S

 

Courtney Hall Murphy '92, and
her husband, Spencer, a daughter,
Jane Elizabeth, on May 9, 2002.
Among the proud grandparents is
Paul Murphy ’65.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Stier
"92, a son, Henry Wilson, on July
27, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick H.
Belden Ill '93, a daughter,
Margaret, on Sept. 24, 2002. She
joins brother Ben.

Caroline Clarke Boggs '93 and
Christopher Boggs 93, a son,
Joseph Samuel “Sammy,” on Oct.
7, 2002. He joins brother Charlie, 2.

Maureen Levey Chase '93 and
Roland Sydney Chase '95, a son,
Austin Sydney, on June 24, 2002.
Austin was also welcomed by his
uncle, ‘lorsten Chase ’97, and his
aunt, Kathleen Quirk Chase °97.
‘The family live in Livingston, N.J.

Erin Walsh Daunic '93 and her
husband, William, a son, Evans
Clinton, on Aug. 9, 2002.

Courtney Smith Edman '93 and
her husband, Erie, a son, William
Manning, on May 31, the couple’s
fifth anniversary. He joins sister
Caitlyn, 3. ‘The family live in
Farmingham, Mass.

Mr. and Mrs. Dr. Carrett H.
Lischer '93, a son, Graham Henry,
on Nov. 4, 2002. Garrett is in his
fifth year of urology residency at
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minn.

Lea Weber Ridenhour '93, and
her husband, William, a daughter,
Eve Elizabeth, on Feb. 20, 2002.

Elizabeth H. Wozencraft '93 and
her husband, Frank, a daughter,
Julia Nalle, on Oct. 25, 2002. She
joins brother Cooper, 3.

Rebecca R. Alvear '94, and her
husband, Jorge, a son, Christian
Reed, on Aug. 14, 2002.

Dr. Laina Ewan Crowthers '94
and her husband, Kevin, a daugh-
ter, Alexandra Marie, on April 12,
2002. ‘They live in Greenville, R.I.

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Cilreath
Jr. "94, a son, James R. II, on Jan.
24, 2002. ‘They live in Nags Head,
N.C.

Dr. Jennifer Shaker Lee '94 and
her husband, Greg, a daughter,

Penelope Price Lee, on May 12,
2002. ‘hey live in Decatur, Ga.

Robert B. McCinley Jr. '94 and
Katie Mehiburger McCinley '97,
a daughter, Katherine Madison, on
June 24, 2002. Katherine has
already made her first pilgrimage
to Lexington, where she attended
the wedding of Michelle Bauman
97 and Lamar Villere ’97. ‘The
McGinleys live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Miggins
"94, a daughter, Lilly Francis, on
June 30, 2002. ‘They live in San
Antonio.

Julie Staring Panko '94 and her
husband, Tom, a daughter, Olivia
Rose, on March 9, 2002.

Amy Brown Peterson '94 and her
husband, Mark, a daughter, Claire
Elizabeth, on Feb. 3, 2002. She
joins sister Caroline.

Mr. and Mrs. A Bryant Pless 94,
a son, Iain Andrew, on July 3, 2002.
‘They live in Essex Junction, Vt.

Dan T. C. Rhodes '94 and Julie
Ciddens Rhodes '94, a daughter,
‘Tenison Wynne — Craddock
Rhodes, on Oct. 1. ‘The family live
in Dallas.

Dena Duzan Sokoll "94 and her
husband, Walt, a daughter, Grace
Virginia, on July 4, 2002. She joins
brother Nicholas. ‘The family live
in Oradell, N.J., where the proud
mom is happy to stay home with
her kids.

Vanessa MackKinley Bearden
"95 and her husband, William, a
son, William Harvey “Irooper” IV,
on Nov. 3, 2002.

Stephanie Tomasso Chacona
"95 and her husband, Nick, a son,
Alexander Nicholas, on April 13,
2002. The family reside in
Gaithersburg, Md.

Alan R. Christensen '95 and
Marina Jackson Christensen
95, a daughter, Katina Marina, on
June 19, 2002.

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Coyle
"95, a son, James Whitmire

“Whit,” on Sept. 22, 2002.

John D. Hallett "95 and Maryl
Shaw Hallett "95, a son, Mack
James, on Feb. 6. ‘The family
reside in New York.

 

 

Was

——

4 w @.tie ns

nN d

i, ser ors

Me: Ae Ge AeaZe I

Me 5

Beth M. Provanzana '95 and her
husband, Arjuna, a daughter,
Katherine Devarshi, on Oct. 30,
2002.

Kara Kimzey Fleming '96 and
her husband, Bryan, a daughter,
Kalin, on Feb. 21, 2001.

Madeline W. Corman 96 and her
husband, Chris, a daughter, Anna
Elizabeth, on Sept. 23, 2002.

Catherine Costantino Willard
96 and her husband, Scott, a son,
Gordon McPherson, on Nov. 1,
2002.

Rachel Allen Brown '98 and her
husband, Chris, a daughter,
Christine Grace, on June 27, 2002.

Claire Bowers Jordan '98 and
Crant Jordan '96, a son, Preston
Grant, on Sept. 27, 2002. He
earned an M.B.A. from the
Kellogg School of Management
last June and the family relocated
to Charlotte, N.C., where he is
working in fixed income for
Wachovia Securities.

OBITUARIES

 

Markham L. Peacock Jr. '24,
retired English professor, died Jan.
26 in Roanoke, Va. He was a mem-
ber of Lambda Chi Alpha social
fraternity.

Frank R. Dupuy Jr. '28,
former publisher of Cosmopolitan,
died Dec. 19, 2002, in New York.
He served in the Army Air Corps
during World War II and earned
the rank of captain.

Thomas M. Hickman '29,
retired attorney and lumber execu-
tive, died Feb. 15 in Painter, Va.
He served on the Chesapeake Bay
Bridge ‘Tunnel Commission and as
president of the Eastern Shore
Chamber of Commerce. He was a
member of the Cotillion Club and
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Randolph V. Hall '37,
retired chemical engineer and
metallurgist, died Oct. 23, 2002, in
Naples, Fla. He served in the
Navy during World War II and rose
to the rank of lieutenant comman-
der. He was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

George W. Parsons Jr. '39,

former health-care administrator,
died Feb. 8 in Sun City Center,

Fla. A Navy veteran of World War
II, Parsons gained the rank of
commander.

Dr. Zalmon H. Carfield '40,

former psychiatrist, died Aug. 3,
2002, in ‘Tiburon, Calif. He served
in the Navy during World War II,
earning the rank of lieutenant.
He was a member of Phi Eta
Sigma, ‘lroubadours, Graham-
Lee-Washington Literary Society
and Phi Epsilon Pi social fraternity.

Dr. Robert S.

Hutcheson Jr. '40,

former physician, died Feb. 2 in
Roanoke, Va. He served as a med-
ical officer in the Navy during
World War II. Hutcheson served as
president of the Roanoke Academy
of Medicine and was appointed to
the State Board of Health, later
becoming president of that board as
well. He was a member of the
Sigma Society, Interfraternity
Council, “13” Club, Cotillion Club
and Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Maj. Gen. Franklin A.
Nichols '40,

retired from the Air Force, died
Sept. 16, 2002, in El Paso, ‘Texas.
He served active duty during
World War II and Vietnam. His 25
decorations and service awards
include the Silver Star and the
Distinguished Flying Cross with
three Oak Leaf Clusters. He was a
member of “13” Club, Cotillion
Club, Dance Board and Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity.

Newell C. Cilbert '4I,
retired president of Gilbert &
Richard Inc., died Dec. 18, 2002,
in Mount Carmel, Conn. He was a
member of the outdoor track team,
Cotillion Club and Phi Kappa Ps1
social fraternity.

Dr. Macey H. Rosenthal '4I,
retired physician, died July 29,
2002, in Lynchburg, Va. Rosenthal
was a member of ‘Tau Kappa Iota
and Phi Epsilon Pi social fraternity.

Robert L. Stein '41,

retired sales director for the Old
Belknap Hardware Co., died Aug.
22, 2002, in Louisville, Ky. He was
a member of the University Glee
Club and Alpha ‘Tau Omega social
fraternity.

Henry M. Taylor ‘4l,

died May 24, 2002, in New
Orleans. He served in the Army
Air Corps during World War II. He

A LUM Nt N Ew s

was a member of the Ca/yx and
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Edward M. Korry '42,
former ambassador to Chile, died
Jan. 29 in Charlotte, N.C. He was
also a former ambassador to
Ethiopia and a United Press corre-
spondent in post-World War II
Europe. He was a member of the
Calyx, The Ring-tum Phi, the
baseball team, Southern Collegian,
Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa and Zeta Beta ‘lau social
fraternity.

John H. Mast Jr. 42,

former president of Davis Motor
Co. Inc., died June 5, 2001, in
Rockbridge Baths, Va. He was a
lieutenant in the Naval Reserve
during World War II]. He was a
member of ‘Tau Kappa Iota.

John H. Peacock '42

died Aug. 10, 2002, in Severna
Park, Md. He was a member of
The Ring-tum Phi, Southern
Collegian and Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Carter L. Refo '42,

former partner with Refo &
‘Tompkins, died Aug. 8, 2002, in
Richmond. He was a member of the
debate team, Graham-Lee-Wash-
ington Literary Society and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

James R. Sterrett '42,
former NASA employee, died Jan.
6 in Hampton, Va. He served in
the Army Air Corps during World
War II.

Richard H. Turner '42,
former president of the 402 Corp.,
died Jan. 14, 2000, in Pensacola,
Fla. He was a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

John J. Wilkinson '42,
former judge, died Aug. 30, 2001,
in Mesa, Ariz. He was a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

The Rev. Bane T.
Underwood '42,

former minister of the Pentecostal
Holiness Church, died July 27,
2002, in Roanoke, Va.

Dr. Harry B. Wood Jr. '42,

retired chief of the Office of
Extramural Research and
Resources of the National Cancer
Institute, died Aug. 7, 2002, in
Bethesda, Md. He was a member
of the rifle team, forensic team,

 

Interfraternity Council Gr

» Graham-
Lee Washington Literary Socieill
and Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity,

Richard M. Roberts "43
retired tax counsel, died Sept 10
2002, in Nokomis, Fla. He Was j
member of the debate team
Cotillion Club and Sigma Ny
social fraternity.

Dr. George E. Calvert "44
retired physician, died Aug. 17
2002, in Lynchburg, Va. He served
as a medical officer in the Navy. He
was past president of the Lynch-
burg Academy of Medicine. He
was a member of ‘Tau Kappa Iota
and Sigma Chi social fraternity,

Paul T. Kohr '44,

former vice president of Kohr,
Royer & Griffith, died Aug. 22,
2002, in Columbus, Ohio. He
served as an Army Air Corps pilot
during World War II. He was a
member of Pi Alpha Nu and
Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Francois R. Boucher 45,
retired social worker, died Jan. 21
in Northampton, Mass. He was an
Army Air Corps veteran of World
War II.

Philip P. Page Jr. '45,
former partner with Goldreich,
Page & ‘Thropp, died April 5,
2002, in Boonton, N.J. He served
in the Army Corps of Engineers
during World War II. He was a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
the forensic team, the debate
team, Phi Eta Sigma and Lambda
Chi Alpha social fraternity.

William F. Parkerson Jr. '47L,
former state senator and president
pro tempore of the Virginia Senate,
died Jan. 23 in Richmond. He was
chairman of the Senate Courts of
Justice Committee and represent
ed the 12th senatorial district for
more than 22 years. At W&L, he
was a member of the W@L Law
Review and Kappa Alpha social
fraternity.

Eugene A. Pratt '48

died Oct. 13, 2002, in Las Vegas.
He was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

William A. Chipley '49,

retired vice president of Lone Star
Industries, died Dec. 27, 2002, 1n
Lookout Mountain, ‘Tenn. He
served as a Marine Corps pilot dur
ing World War II and the Korean

 

 

Waish iw gts n

an d

fee BP ALuMNI

NAS - SR aes

Neue

 

 

Chipley played professional
He was a member of
Delta Kappa, Sigma
; and Delta ‘Tau Delta

War.
football.
Omicron
Delta Chi a
social fraternity.

ceorge L- Coyle Jr. '49,
former president of Coyle and
Richardson department store, died
Sept. 2, 2002, in New Hampshire.
He served in the Army Air Corps
during World War II and the West
Virginia Air National Guard during
the Korean Wat. He was a member
of Pi Alpha Nu and Sigma Chi
social fraternity.

James C. Hanks '49,

retired plant industrial engineer,
died Jan. 2 in Lexington, 5.0). hie
served in the Army Air Corps and
retired with the rank of captain.

Virgil D. Beckner Jr. '50,
former senior mechanical engi-
neer, died Sept. 19, 2001, in Santa
Barbara, Calif. He was a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity.

Andrew W. McCulloch ’50,
former NASA physicist, died Jan.
16in Bowie, Md. He was a member
of Delta Upsilon social fraternity.

Thomas F. Pritchett '50,
former vice president of Wood-
ward & Lothrop department store,
died Jan. 8 in Warrenton, Va. He
served in the Navy during World
War II]. He was a member of the
Interfraternity Council, “13” Club,
Cotillion Club and Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

Hugh N. Jacobson '5lI,
former executive vice president of
the LWJ Corp., died Sept. 10,
2002, in Memphis, Tenn. He was a
member of Phi Eta Sigma,
Southern Collegian, Dance Board,
All-American football player and
Zeta Beta Tau social fraternity.

The Rey. William S.
Rosasco ||| SI,
former president of Rosasco
Enterprises, died March 27 in Gulf,
Fla. He organized the First National
Bank of Santa Rosa and was past
chairman of its board of directors.
Rosasco was president of the Gulf
Coast Council of the Boy Scouts of
‘America in 1988. He served as pres-
ident of the Democratic County
7hairman’s Association of Florida
and as a member of the Democratic
arty’s Central Committee. He was
Clected to attend the 1984

Democratic Convention in San
Francisco, where he opened and
closed the daily convention broad-
casts for CNN. While at W&L, he
was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

Stanley Y. C. Lau '52L
died Dec. 25, 2002.

Lester E. Zittrain '52,
former partner of Zittrain &
Zittrain, died Jan. 26 in Pittsburgh.
He was a veteran of the Navy. He
was a member of Pi Alpha Nu, the
Calyx and Zeta Beta ‘Tau social fra-
ternity.

John B. Rankin Jr. '53,
former sales representative, died
Feb. 15 in Lavonia, Ga. He was an
Army veteran. He was a member
of the Cotillion Club, White Friars,
Southern Collegian, Sigma Delta
Chi and Lambda Chi Alpha social
fraternity.

John P. Ryan '53,

retired chairman of the Ryan
Mortgage Co., died March 14 in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas. He served in
the Marine Corps and earned the
rank of lieutenant. Ryan served as
chairman of the Ryan Foundation
and as a trustee of ‘he Hill School.
He was awarded the title
Philanthropist of the Year in 1998.
He was a member of Beta ‘Theta
Pi social fraternity.

William V. Trollinger '53,
former owner, president and geolo-
gist of ‘Irollinger-Marsh Resources,
died Sept. 13, 2002 in Denver. He
served in the Navy. He was a mem-
ber of the football team and Sigma
Nu social fraternity.

Charles L. Turner '53,

former dog breeder and groomer,
died April 18, 2001. He was a
member of the University Glee

Club.

Dr. William B. Inabnet Jr. '54,
former surgeon, died Sept. 8, 2002,
in Greensboro, N.C. He was for-
mer president and lifetime trustee
at the Natural Science Center. He
was a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Franklin L. Shipman Jr. '54,
former owner of Shipman
Financial Services, died Feb. 28 in
Orleans, Mass. He served in the
Navy. He was a member of the
White Friars and Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

A LU MN Tt N E W S

 

Thomas W. Alexander '55,
former president of — the
Advertising Service Agency, died
Aug. 8, 2002, in Charleston, S.C.
Alexander was a Navy veteran
who retired with the rank of cap-
tain. He was a member of Sigma
Delta Chi, 74e Ring-tum Phi and
Beta ‘Theta Pi social fraternity.

Andrew A. Payne Jr. 55,
former president of Horse Creek
Land & Mining Co., died Jan. 29
in Charleston, W.Va. He was an
Army veteran, serving in the
Korean War. He was a member of
Phi Kappa Psi social fraternity.

John A. Voekel '55,

former teacher and _ restaurant
owner, died Nov. 18, 2001, in
Chico, Calif. He was an avid pro-
moter of youth soccer throughout
his life. Voekel was a member of
Beta ‘Theta Pi social fraternity.

Albert Steves IV '58,

former CEO and president of Ed
Steves and Sons, died Feb. 10 in
San Antonio. He served two years
in the Army and attained the rank

of first lieutenant. Steves was a
member of the White Friars,
Scabbard & Blade and Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

Dr. David C. Poteet '59,

former professor of history, died
Feb. 8 in Pulaski, Va. He was a
member of the University Glee
Club, Concert Guild, Dance
Board and Lambda Chi Alpha

social fraternity.

Marshall Timberlake '6I,

former partner with Balch &
Bingham, died Dec. 9, 2002, in
Birmingham, Ala. He served in
Army military intelligence and
counterintelligence, earning the
rank of captain. He was chairman of
the Alabama State Bar’s Corporate,
Banking and Business Law
Section. ‘Timberlake was a member
of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

John L. Payne ’62,

former officer and director of
Southern Land Co., died Feb. 16
in Tampa, Fla. He was a member
of the Cotillion Club and Phi
Delta ‘Theta social fraternity.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

 

Armchairs and Rockers

‘The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in black lacquer
finish with cherry arms. The five-color crest of the University is
painted on the back of each chair or rocker. ‘They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for birthdays,
graduation, Christmas, anniversaries or weddings. All profit from
sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham ’14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by call-
ing (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L Alumni
Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to: Washington and
Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

[1] BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $310)
[J ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $310)

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT L] VISA [] MASTERCARD [] CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WEL Alumni
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

Wae hing tio #

Gan d

 

Loe ME Ak UMN

Mie Ae GA

 

Daniel L. Manson '65,

retired lawyer, died Jan. 5, 2002 in
Charlottesville. He was a member
of the football team, University
Glee Club and Delta ‘Tau Delta

social fraternity.

Roger S. Sennott ’66

former general manager of
Marketing Development Inc.,
died Sept. 12, 2002, in San Diego.
He was a member of Pi Sigma
Alpha, 7he Ring-tum Phi, golf

team and lacrosse team.

Robert D. Sproat '68,
former professor, died Feb. 7 in
Richmond. He was a member of
Delta Upsilon social fraternity.

Michael R. Testerman '80OL,
former attorney, died Feb. 10 in
Rockaway Beach, Mo.

Charles P. Monroe ’82L,
former attorney with Duncan &
Hopkins PC. and Arlington
County Board member, died Jan.
11 in Arlington, Va. He served as
president of the Black Law
Student Association.

Cregory S. Hucka '88

died Feb. 9, 1992. He was a mem-
ber of Southern Comfort, the
University Glee Club and Zeta
Beta ‘Tau social fraternity.

jJ. Alan Creeter '89,

former president of Greeter
Building Center, died May 9, 2002,
in Monteagle, ‘Tenn. He was a
board member of the South
Central Building Association and a
member of the Home Builders
Association, ‘Tennessee Young
Republicans, Rotary Club and
Otey Parrish Church. Greeter was
a longtime president of the Middle
‘Tennessee Alumni Chapter, and
he and his family hosted many
W&L receptions during the
W&L-Sewanee football week-
ends. He was a member of Phi
Delta ‘Theta social fraternity.

Stephen Cullum

Owings Jr. '03,

a business administration major
from Atlanta, died Dec. 1, 2002, in
Lexington.

Herman Ward Taylor Jr. '57, a professor of classi-
cal languages and literature at Washington and Lee
for nearly 40 years, died Dec. 27, 2002, after a long
struggle with cancer. He was 67. ‘The longtime
chair of the department of classics retired in 2001.
He spent three semesters
at W&L before obtaining
his bachelor’s degree from
the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill,
where he later earned a
Ph.D. After teaching at
UNC for several years,
‘Taylor returned to W&L
in 1962 as an instructor,
moving up to associate
professor and to professor
in 1975. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa and
Phi Eta Sigma honorary
fraternities.

Many alumni hold
happy memories of his
patient, kind and gener-
ous tutelage. As Harrison Pemberton, W&L pro-
fessor of philosophy, observed at ‘Taylor’s memorial
service on Jan. 10, 2003, “He presented himself to
the students as a friend there to help them master
some difficult material.”

‘Taylor’s teaching concentrated on the great
Latin writers—Virgil, Ovid and Horace—which
many have noted as being entirely appropriate for
someone who also had the knack of saying exactly
what he meant, richly laced with satire. Pemberton
and others referred to examples of his well-placed
wit as “Hermanisms” and fondly remember a story
about a full-figured woman who mentioned to
‘Taylor that she had been on a diet for two years.
“And when does the diet take effect?” he asked.

“The gift of expression is in the finest tradi-
tion of Latin prose,” said Kevin Crotty, associate
professor of classics, “and Herman put it to use not
only in his classes here on campus but during the
numerous classes he taught students in Rome and
Greece. He had a knack for bringing the history of
a place or a monument to life.”

Joe Small 69, a former student and longtime
friend, paid tribute to Taylor’s many-faceted inter-

ests: “Not only did Herman know about past civi-

 

 

   

lizations and about their poets, their artists and all]
the other things about them that ennoble the
human spirit, but he also knew how to build a
house.” His home on 16 Houston Street, a project
that occupied him for years, was a source of great
pleasure to him, although
as his tennis partner
Martha wryly
noted, “He would get
started, achieve a state of

Evans

maximum mess and then
stop, leaving everything
exactly where it was, usu-
ally on the porch.”
Another — former
student, Alex Bourdrez
76, relished the moments
he dropped by ‘Taylor’s
home and was offered a
beer or ice cream (or both).
“Those were invitations to
sit and talk, with no con-
flicting agenda items,” he
said. “Herman was, with-
out question, the world’s greatest conversationalist.
‘This was not only because he could shape virtually
every topic with insight and interesting perspec-
tives, but also because he could be so naturally
attuned to the person he was talking with.”

‘Taylor, an enthusiastic photographer, served
on the executive board of the Classical Association
of Virginia. He also chaired the board of publishers
of W&Ls literary quarterly, Shenandoah, and the
textbook selection committee for Lexington’s pub-
lic schools.

In addition to his wife, Betty, Taylor is sur-
vived by three adult children, three grown stepchil-
dren and 10 grandchildren. Lamar Cecil Jr, W&L
Kenan Professor Emeritus of History, spoke of
‘Taylor’s “fervent attachment” to his family and
Betty ‘Taylor’s “loving tenacity” during his illness.
The memorial service in Lee Chapel ended with
Cecil evoking the Roman writer Virgil, a Taylor
favorite: “As long as the rivers shall run down to the
sea, or shadows touch the mountain slope, or stafs
graze in the vault of heaven, so long shall your
honor, your name and your praises endure.”

Gifts in Taylor’s memory will support the

. . -
department of classics at Washington and Lee. #

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

——

SSS. ee

W. H. Au

won Pul:
add thei:
include ‘
Heather
Professo!

WAY Ja]

Virginia,”

poet. ~W‘

than else.

Hillman
expandin

gave a sul

Public Li!

displayed

librarian 1
even surp
I hope m.
their area |
at so little |

To su

send $2?
to Shena:

Troubad:

Lexin etor

Name an

With the «

acheck m

MasterC:

and Signa

vs Smith, himself an award-winning

00h: The Washington and Lee University Review, the acclaimed literary

, gathers together the well-crafted works of 100 poets in the Spring/

2003 issue, titled Szrongly Spent: 50 Years of Poetry. “Kor anyone who
sample a cross-section of the best American poetry of the second half

ich century,” says Rod Smith, the editor, “I recommend SZongly Spent.”

o 68 8 ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 8 Re ee Re Re ee 8 ee ee eR 8 Re eee eee ee Re Be eR RR ee eee eee ee ee ee eee Re Oe ee eee ee ee we ee

‘owsers who rarely read a poem may recognize such stellar contributors as e. e. cummings,

1, James Dickey, Langston Hughes, May Swenson, and Marge Piercy. Fifteen of the poets have

‘ Prizes, and two recent Library of Congress Poet Laureates, Robert Pinsky and Billy Collins,

ords. Virginians in the special issue

rles Wright, Stephen Cushman and
ss Miller, Thomas H. Broadus
Hnglish.

    

Strongly Spent

50 Years of Poetry

vah definitely has a larger identity in

  

 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  

  

et more submissions from Virginia
re.” At least one alumnus, Donald S.
of Scarsdale, N.Y., is working on
© journal’s reach. “A few years ago, I
iption to Shenandoah to the Scarsdale
vy so they would have it prominently
their shelves,” he says. “The head
rts that it is very well received and is
ng the Sewanee Review in circulation.
more alumni might do the same for
ries. What a wonderful opportunity,
. to Showcase Washington and Lee.”
ribe, visit shenandoah.wlu.edu_ or

ne year ($27 for foreign addresses)

ih, Washington and Lee University,
Theater, 2nd Floor, Box W,
\ 24450-0303. Please include your
iress, indicate if you want to start
‘nt Or next issue, and enclose either
out to “Shenandoah” or your Visa or

SHENANDOAH

umber, along with expiration date SPRING/SUMMER 20

The Washington and Lee University
ALUMS? VMACAZINE
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 227250

WWW wibedu

NON PROFIT ORG.
Ui. POSTAGE
P Aa D
PERMIT NO. 50g

NORF Oi VA

 

TIME WAITS FOR NO TREE
During spring break in mid-April, crews cut down the
two elderly ash trees flanking the front of Lee Chapel.
‘They had become so brittle that no amount of mortar
and steel could help, and University officials feared
they would topple over and cause major damage to
buildings or, worse, to people. After a few days of
sawing, digging and lifting, the trees were gone. ‘Iwo
saplings replace them. ‘The hollow trunks of the
felled trees left no rings to count, making it difficult
to determine their true age, but they probably are the
mere youngsters that appear in this c. 1870 photograph
of campus (above) by Michael Miley, the noted

Lexington photographer. ‘Time marches on.

 

 

 

 

