The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine SUMMER 2003

    
  
 
 
  
   

Pd
wt
ra
oo ol
ot

 

Alumni and the
War with Iraq
Marine Capt. Alex Cross °95
traveling the desert of Iraq
LALLA LL
assault vehicle

 

 

laking
a Career

Oe ee ee ee ee ee ee

FA

 

eat li) :

Pe gee ee ee ee ee ee ee

and Porcelain — asa Children’s Entertamer

am

   

     

   

   

COMMENCEMENT 2002M

  

 

Proud alumni, their newly graduated children and other relatives and celebrants gathered

7

—

 

 

in front of Lee Chapel for their traditional commencement portraits in June.

SE

Back row, left to nght:

Fielding A. Rogers, Matthew A.
Coursen, Nathan W. Stovall,

Paige S. Bryant, Richard B. Morse,
Robin A. Okin, Erin E. Carter, J.
Anderson Folsom, Jill W. Adams, P.
Ryan Murphy, Scott A. Putney.
Front row, left to nght:

Frank A. Rogers II ’68, Christopher
D. Coursen ’70, David H. Stovall Jr.
69, Corbet F. Bryant Jr. ’68,

J. lucker Morse 6/7, °71L,
Michael A. Okin ’76, Kenneth

P. Carter ’71, John W. Folsom ’73,
Richard B. Adams Jr. ’74, Michael
R. Murphy ’70, Lee A. Putney ’53
(grandfather of Scott Putney),
Mark A. Putney ’78.

%
3
4
%

<9 AIT .

5

OORT

SAHIN

 

 

 

Back row, left to nght:
Christina H. Spofford, R.A. Rodes
Nash, Eleanor V. Ellison, William

  

4

E. Martin, Andrew N.G. Borda, {

 

Paul S. Trible III, Sarah E. Sager,
J. Brodie Gregory, Matthew L.
McWilliams, ‘ITH. Jack Craddock,
E. Bradley Matthews, Julia S.
Simmons, Alison C. Simmons ’01
(sister of Julia Simmons).

Front row, left to nght:

William R. Spofford HI *74,
Richard H. Nash Jr. ’68, J. Hagood
Ellison Jr. °72, William R. Martin
"72, Walter J. Borda ’67, ’71L, Paul
S. Trible Jr. °71L, Jonathan W. Sager
°78L,, Edmond B. Gregory II “75,
Neil E. McWilliams ’65, |
Theodore J. Craddock ’68, 7
Joseph A. Matthews Jr. *68, 3
Judson H. Simmons ’68.

 

 

i
iu
*:
*

oo ee Ff

ae aa oe ee ear

   

 

  

AAAS RAAT

2 PPONIORSID

 

 

 

FIGHTING BACK || By Wendy Lovell ’90

Alumni raise awareness of diseases and money to cure them.

2

toma %,

 

Neo 8 TG PA Wr i's PN wes HE RE
MeGenR DAY, SINGER AND SONGWRITER || By Wendy Lovell ’90

From college students to kindergarteners, Day has performed for a range of audiences.

 

rene

GENERALS AT WAR || By Coy Barefoot

On the front lines and at home, alumni participated in the war.

 

Meme LITZENBURG’S PURSUIT OF PERFECTION || By Laura Parsons

Whether for the University or himself, the 1957 alumnus sets high standards.

BB Poa oR Oe Me BE oN de S&S

 

 

EM acum: PRESIDENT’S cx THE COLONNADE EM wer LAW
JOURNAL

Why we love W&L.

na oe
Peet. ee oe 6 6.4 6 e
SOS 4644 6944444 14 KK DO

New provost, rector, dean of stu- The role of the Law Council.
dents; Alvin-Dennis turns 40; 0 0 vrrttrtrtttrttttttttteeeeeetee eet
students become teachers.

eee eer eee eee eee eee eee eres eoeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeereseeeeee

EM certens EO acum NEWS

| = Preston Browning ’51 nurtures
Ctsity, speaking tradition, 18 GENERALS’ REPORT writers; the death of Buck
’

raduati ape
tion. Highlights of the 2002-2003 Buchanan °41, professor emeri-
year. tus of politics.

eee eee eee e eee eee eee eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeresesreeeeeeseos

a
ow See eS 64 68 OO ea

eo eee eee errr errr sree ere ere ere eree ere eeeeesesesreseeeeseeeses

 

VOLUME 78 | NUMBER 2
SUMMER 2003

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Julie A. Campbell | Publications Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Coy Barefoot, lan Bradshaw, Rob Fure,

Amanda Hall, Ruth S. Intress, Wendy

Lovell '90, Laura Parsons, Cotton

Puryear '86, Jim Raper, Kevin

Remington, Spike Schulist '53,

Tom Williams, Mary Woodson | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely '73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. 60, Rector
Thomas G. Burish, President

Michael D. Armstrong 77 (Atlanta)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop III 68 (Flourtown, Pa.)
J. Donald Childress ’71 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport IIT ’69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)

Waller T: Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)
Wiliam H. Fishback Jr. °56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom °73 (Columbia, S.C.)

Willam R. Goodell ’So0L (Bronxville, N.Y)
Ray V. Hartwell IIT 69, °75L (McLean, Va.)
Wilham B. Hill Jr.’74,°77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard Jr. 59, ’62L (Baltimore)
William J. Kimmel III ’69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)
John D. Klinedinst 71, °78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, ’69L (Houston)
Thomas N. McJunkin ’70 (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Monier ’62 (Wilson, Wyo.)

Philip W. Norwood ’69, Rector-Elect (Charlotte, N.C.)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (lampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Hoboken, N.J.)

Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C. B.) Tomm 68, °75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Alston Parker Watt ’89 (Thomasville, Ga.)

Pamela J. White °77L. (Baltimore)

John Wolf ’69 (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-458-8400
Publications Office 540-458-8956
Admissions Office 540-458-8710
Alumni Office 540-458-8404

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu LEXINGTON, VA 244 50
Career Services 540-458-8595

Development Office 540-458-8410 0 : T 2 0 2003

News Office 540-458-8460

Sports Information Office 540-458-8676
WE&L Sports Hotline 540-458-8998
WEL Home Page www.wlu.edu

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE U NIVERSITY

Py ee te ae ee es ee ae ie Bo a eS ae 2

 

iin his magnificent baccalaureate address to the
youngest group of us—the Class of 2003—Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr. ’57
described a baccalaureate speech of long ago, when a revered, frail and elderly
alumnus took the podium. “After a pause that seemed interminable,” and speak-

ing in a voice “that barely rose above a whisper,” he said: “I love this place.”

A SENSE OF PERFECTIO

 

“Recalling that moment,” Litzenburg told his audience, “it strikes me, as it must
have struck those present, that he need not have spoken another word.”

I suppose the most enjoyable aspect of my position with the Alumni
Association over the past year has been the opportunity to hear from so many
of you a similar expression of affection for Washington and Lee. ‘This bac-
calaureate address offers the best explanation
I have heard for why this is so.

Litzenburg compared student perspec-
tives fifty years ago to those of today, conclud-
ing that from his standpoint as a student, the
University seemed “just about perfect,” and
even considering all the changes since that
time, “it still seems nearly perfect.”

From my perspective, I would say there
would be no different view from those of us
who were here in the 1970s (though |
acknowledge that members of the faculty and
administration with long-standing experience

: BILL WALLACE ’74, ’77L,
at W&L would hardly call this era one of per- IMMEDIATE PAST PRESIDENT,

W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

fection). Come to think of it, what could we
BILLWALLACE@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

 

have possibly complained about back then?
Acceptable fashion choices ranged from tie-dyed ‘T-shirts to coats and ties, we
were the guinea pigs for the six-week Spring Term and we routinely beat
Virginia in lacrosse.

A quick tour around the campus today (with changes including the stun-
ning new John W. Elrod University Commons, fitness center, soccer stadium
and renovated facilities for the journalism department and Law School) sug-
gests that today’s students will have yet another sense of perfection.

So how is it that alumni across a generation of vast changes share precise-
ly the same sentiment about this place? It seems that Litzenburg’s answer to
that question for the Class of 2003 bears repeating for the rest of us:

What we prize most about the University is what never changes.
That is why we remain beholden to those who have conserved the
institution’s commitment to liberal learning, to intellectual honesty,
to civility, honorable dealings, and moral integrity, for those are the
purposes and values that have made of this community a place like
no other. We know in our hearts that as long as we endure we can
return here confident that what we will find is not only what we left
behind but what we took away as well.

At your next opportunity, | encourage you to return to campus. Remind
yourself why you loved being here as a student, and see for yourself why
future alumni will feel the same way years from now. #

 

 

Waschinugter and fee Me AL UMN M A G A @ 7m

 

 

More Thoughts
On Diversity

| am writing in response ©

letters on diversity 1D the Fall

02 edition. First, | must agree

with my freshman oe.
Ramona Franks Hagmaier a
that “watered-down COUISCS,—
as she put It, have no place at

however,

W&L. I must add,
that I do not recall any courses
on “Jamaican village she-dev-
Is” during my long tenure as
a student.

As someone who studied lit-
erature with the intention of
teaching and writing It, | am
grateful for the well-rounded lib-
eral arts education | received at
W&L. which allowed me to
appreciate “Twain without leav-
ing me ignorant of Baldwin,
Wright, Hurston or Morrison. |
took Shakespeare and Chaucer
just like everybody else. | also
had the invaluable opportunity
to take several seminars on
“diverse” topics such as black
American female writers. Far
from being “counterproductive
to a student’s future,” these
courses taught me important
lessons that I took to graduate
school and beyond.

[ truly cannot understand the
knee-jerk fear of the word
“diversity” that would rather a
W&L student have less educa-

tional options than more. “If a

By Mail: Publications Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450)

By E-Mail: Magazine@wlu.edy

By Fax: 340-458-8024

All letters should be s.

than igned and include the

» address and day
number. Letters selected fo ;
may be edited for leper},
Stoned articles 7
Guthors and no
editors or the

time phone
Tr publication

r length, content and style.
elect the views of th ir

t necessarily those of the
University,

a

Yl d

new graduate wants just about
any job, he or she needs to have
hard-core skills.” I certainly
agree! ‘The hard-core skills that I
developed in diverse courses at
W&L helped me excel in gradu-
ate seminars.
| have not seen anything that
leads me to believe that W&L
intends to abandon “our long-
standing promotion of academic
excellence” (as Richard W.
Hoover 761, in a letter in the
same issue, seems to fear). It is
undeniable that yes, “W&L
must make accommodations
with the society in which we
live,” which Mr. Hoover ques-
tioned. Without some expansion
of W& Ls traditions, after all, nei-
ther Ramona nor I would have
matriculated in the fall of 1989.
Lyrae Van Chef-Stefanon ’96
Fairfax, Virginia

Diversity and
Honorary Degrees

 

| was surprised on learning that
no honorary degrees were award-
ed during the June 2003 gradua-
tion. A long and appropriate tra-
dition was interrupted for no rea-
son I know of.

In jarring contrast comes the
craze for religious, racial, ethnic,
sexual and social undergraduate
diversity, at cost of academic
standards and promise. Down go
the bastions. Recruit the less
qualified.

I'm suggesting extension of
previous policy. Admission based
on strong academics without dis-
crimination. Character, leader-
ship and desired talent weighed
in the process. Adequate finan-
cial aid. Foreign students wel-
come. ‘lemporarily, in view of
world problems, caution on U.S.
transfers abroad. Also regarding
applicants likely to be dangerous
or disruptive as stated in federal
law.

A new administration may
not be prepared for selecting

meritorious careers and service.

 

‘There should have been no dif-
ficulty in reaching agreement. As
it is, a valued custom remains in
limbo. Will it be canceled, con-
tinued or somehow combined
with an undergraduate zoo?
Surely, the alumni will hope

for an early and full explanation.

Jay Reid 38

Hilton Head, §.C.

Accomplished Alumni

 

It strikes me as worth noting that
both of the alumni quoted at
length in ‘Tom Litzenburg °57’s
baccalaureate address (which is
already—and _ _—_ rightly—being
referred to in some quarters as
“The Sermon on ‘The Hill’) also
served the alma mater in profes-
sional capacities.

Robert S. Keefe °68, news ser-
vice director from 1970 to 1980,
now runs his own consultancy,
Business Publications Inc., in
New York City, as well as manag-
ing a printing company.

Kenneth P. Ruscio ’76 served
two years as assistant dean of stu-
dents for admissions and
returned in 1987 as dean of
freshmen and assistant professor
of politics. From 1991-1998, he
was associate dean of the
Williams School and rose to full
professor. In 2002, he became
dean of the Jepson School at the
University of Richmond.

Pat Hinely °73

University Photographer

Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Art

Alumni College

 

In the Spring/Summer 2002
issue, there was an article about
the very successful Alumni
College. I thought your readers
might be interested in knowing
something about its creation.
For some time, three profes-

sors in the C-School (Joe.

Goldsten, Larry Lamont and I)
had discussed what we saw as
the deplorable lack of use of

 

Ct. an 7 1 ee

mM A GA 2 tN EC

WASHINGION AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

aST

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

James R. Brooks ’77, President (Houston)

Barry O. Barlow °77, Vice President (Louisville, Ky.)

Wilham P. Wallace Jr.°74,°77L., Immediate Past
President (Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish IIT °76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman ’g1 (Morristown, N.J.)
Amy C. Balfour ’&9, °93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Emily C. Bevill Sg (Boston)

Roger G. Bowers ’94L. (Richmond)

Rebecca K. Brandt ’90 (Denver)

James R. Brooks °77 (Houston)

Joseph L. Garrere’77 (New Orleans)

John M. Cleghorn ’84 (Charlotte. N.C.)

Douglas M. Cummings Jr. °g1 (Wilmington, Del.)
James W. DeYoung °65 (Chicago)

J. Thad Elis IT ’82 (Atlanta)

John M. Falk ’86 (Washington)

Lee M. Holhs ’86 (Birmingham, Ala.)

David S. Makepeace 88 (Raleigh, N.C.)

G. Garrett Moseley ’S88 (Charlotte, N.C.)

David D. Redmond °66, ’69L (Richmond)

Hugh L. Robinson IT S80 (Baltimore)

Edward 1. Taylor IT ’81 (Memphis)

Edward P. Tiffey °90L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Wilham M. Toles 92, °95L (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus ’83 (New York City)

David K. Weaver 60 (Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

David P. Falck °78L, President (Ridgewood, N.J.)

James E:. Nicholson °77L, Vice President (Edina, Minn.)

James J. Kelley Il °74L., Immediate Past President
(Alexandria, Va.)

Darlene Moore, Executive Secretary (Lexington)

Law Council

Christine Champlin Adams ’90, °93L (Somerset, Ky.)
Robby J. (Rob) Aliff’91, °97L. (South Charleston, W.Va.)
Daniel T. Balfour °63, °65L. (Richmond)

JI. Vance Berry Jr. °79L. (Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.)
Joseph W. Brown "68L (Las Vegas)

Kimmberly M. Bulkley 951 (Atlanta)

Matthew J. Calvert 75, °79L (Atlanta)

E.. Townes Duncan °78L (Nashville)

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L (Princeton, N.J.)

A. Garter (Chip) Magee Jr. ’79L. (Roanoke)

Jenelle Mims Marsh ’81L. (Tuscaloosa, Ala.)

Susan Ballantine Molony ‘ool. (Charlotte, N.C.)
Jessine A. Monaghan ’79L. (Washington)

Wilham H. (Bill) Oast IIT °71, °74L. (Portsmouth, Va.)

Robert W. Ray ’85L (Rumson, N.J.)

Jerrald J. (Jerry) Roehl ’71L (Albuquerque, N.M.)

- Carla J. Urquhart 96L (Alexandra, Va.)
David G. Weaver ’81L (Roanoke)

Christopher Wolf So0L. (Washington)
William A. (Bill) Worthington ’76L. (Houston)

 

 

campus facilities during the summer. In 1977,
we attempted what turned out to be an unsuc-
cessful program. We took our concerns to then-
President Bob Huntley. He gave us the green
light to pursue a study of what was going on at
other campuses.

Larry investigated law and related alumni
programs, Joe did an intense review of alumni
programs and I looked into programs geared to
high school students. We compiled our findings
into an extensive report for President Huntley.
I assume it was this report that led to his deci-
sion to explore summer programs for adults.

I designed (and named) the Summer
Scholars program. I had fun marketing,
staffing and supervising its first three years
with the able assistance of Chuck O’Connell.
At the end of my tenure, the program was
taken over by the Office of Summer Programs
(now the Office of Special Programs) headed
by Rob Fure.

‘The three of us are quite proud of what has
transpired as the result of our efforts.

John DeVogt
Professor Emeritus of Management
Lexington

Terms, Traditions, Committees

 

In days of old, two semesters ruled supreme. It
meant a minimum of five courses a semester.
‘The logistics of keeping up with each course
were compounded by tests and papers in the
other four. Christmas break meant taking
books home to study for January exams and, all
too often, returning to Lexington with those
same books having never been opened.
January was bleak. ‘Then it was into early
February, with another five courses, six days a
week; whatever Wednesday night is today, it
was a study night then. ‘The year rounded off
with exams in late May and early June.

At some enlightened moment, perhaps
induced by genius, someone devised the 12-
12-6 calendar, quite uniquely W&L. It enables
the students and faculty to be done by
Christmas and to actually enjoy the holiday
season. More importantly, working with four
courses, instead of five, enables students to
study in greater depth and to devote more time
to each endeavor. During Spring ‘Term, the stu-
dent can actually devote virtually full attention
to one or two courses, and faculty-student rela-
tionships are fostered by more contact.

Needless to say, | am an ardent proponent of
the present system and oppose reverting to the

dark days of two semesters. ‘The 12-12-6 calen-
dar is a comparatively new tradition at W&L,
which should be kept because it has proved its
mettle.

Your recent magazine (Spring 2003) had an
article on the speaking tradition. Speaking at
W&L is not only expected, it is required. If you
are unable or incapable of speaking to your
compatriots, and the W&L community cannot
induce you to mend your ways, then other
venues should be pursued. It is the students’
AND the faculty’s duty to engender, inculcate
and perpetuate civility in the form of a courte-
ous greeting as a way of life.

‘The Assimilation Committee, properly run,
was a positive influence. While I am not calling
for its re-establishment, the faculty and stu-
dents have an affirmative obligation to perpet-
uate a civil environment.

J.D. Humphries °66, 691
Atlanta

‘The article on the speaking tradition reminded
me of an incident during my sophomore year
that still astounds me. I returned to my room
one afternoon to find my roommate talking
with another student. ‘The shock was that I
didn’t recognize the man. Not only didn’t I
know his name, I didn’t recognize his face—I
was sure I’d never met him before. After
almost two years at W&L, it was a surprise to
me that there could be someone on campus, a
student no less, whom I had never seen. ‘he
school wasn’t that big!

‘The death of the unlamented Assimilation
that
Orwellian and even Stalinistic to my ear—

Committee—a name always rang
came during my years in Lexington and was
caused principally, as I recall, by the abuse by
one student. Students who breached various
W&L traditions could be reported anonymous-
ly by a schoolmate: he merely filled out an
Assimilation Card and dropped it in a box.
Students punished by the committee were said
to have been “assimilated.” If that doesn’t
sound like 1984, I don’t know what does.

‘This one student had a habit of turning in
his schoolmates by the score whenever he per-
ceived an infraction, essentially overwhelming
the committee and angering so many students
that the Assimilation Committee was disband-
ed. We also observed that a tradition ought not
to be something that was forced on people.

Richard E:. Kramer ’69

New York, N.Y.

   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 

A Letter From the Editor

 

By way of introduction: I am a Colorado vail
who grew up in Santa Fe, New Mexico, | havell
two decades of editing magazines behind me,
better part of those
years spent using my
degrees in history at
two _ publications.
One, The Journal of
Arizona History, was
published by the
Arizona — Historical
Society. The other,
Virginia Cavalcade,
was published by the
Library of Virginia z
until the state’s massive budget cuts in Octobe |
2002 eliminated both the magazine and the job, —

I arrived in Lexington in February 2003 and 1
started work during a blizzard. By spring, I was |
getting to know students from Germany and |
‘Texas and South Africa and thinking fondly off
‘Traveller every time I passed his stable. (A new-—
comer’s question: How do students practice thell
speaking tradition while talking on cell phones i

My favorite introduction to Washington and
Lee came on the day of the Law School eraduae
tion, a couple of weeks after a mishap on
Avenue’s sidewalk had left me with a brok
knee. Perched on crutches, with my leg ~<a
in a large splint, | was moving slowly along Mat
Street. A happy trio strolled toward me, two of :
them brand-new Law graduates proudly bre
dishing their walking sticks. As I prepared to off oft
my congratulations, one of them gestured at m i
injury, smiled in a friendly way and offered me ht
walking stick.

If this University teaches nothing more thé
such generosity of spirit, then its students are get

 
  

ting a fine education.

Julie A. Campbell, Publications Editor

Corrections and Clarifications

Patricia Hobbs, director of Lee Chapel ane
Museum, reports that the photo of campus OF
the Spring 2003 back cover is “post-1883.”

 

Malcolm B. Burton ’60 lives in New Jersey:

Peter Hunt, the author of Svrwcturing Mergers e
Acquisitions, is a member of the Class of 1986.

  

 

Betty Pitzer attended the 60th reunion of the
Class of 1942 to receive an award for her late h “7
band, Fred Pitzer ’42. Their last name was mis
spelled in the Spring 2003 issue. *

 

 

 

 

 

DWathingt ox

EP ini unwn:

and

Mm A G A Zt Mm CE

 

 

Bee |

a

Laurent Boetsch ’69 is seeking a new challenge by doing what he
au |
ost: teaching, mentoring students and focusing on the

loves Mm — ?
University’s programs on interdisciplinary and global studies. ‘The
n ° .
pular provost—acting president of Washington and Lee from
popu" :

900 1-2002— resigned his position as the second highest official at
WeL. effective July 1. After a one-year sabbatical, Boetsch will
reach Romance languages and focus on other special assignments.

“Words are insufficient to express my eratitude, and that of
the entire University, for Larry’s contributions to the provost’s
office and to the University,” said President ‘Thomas Burish. “As
with everything else he has done, Larry devoted himself to the
provost’s office self-
lessly and effectively.
The University, and I
personally, shall always
be grateful.”

Boetsch said, “I
really miss the day-to-
day engagement with
students in the class-
room. I am equally
committed to the evo-
lution of our global and
interdisciplinary pro-
grams because | be-
lieve our model builds
so nicely on_ the

strengths within our LARRY BOETSCH ’69

liberal arts, pre-profes- ReltluUuRNS TO. TEACHING
sional and law school
curricula.”

19/6, he
received his D.M.L.
from Middlebury Col-
lege and joined W&Ls
faculty as an instructor
of Romance languages. He moved through the ranks as an assis-
tant, associate and full professor and in 1992 was named head of
the department of Romance languages. Boetsch also served as
associate dean of the College from 1989-1992.

In 1996, Boetsch was named vice president for academic
affairs and dean of the College. He served in that capacity until
2001, when. following the death of President John Elrod, he
became interim and then acting president. He led the University
until Burish assumed the presidency in 2002,
at which time Boetsch became W&Ls first
Provost.

, Boetsch’s presidency came during a cru-
cial time for the school and the nation. He
first guided the University after Elrod’s death.
Less than 45 days into office, Boetsch led a

 

New Challenges for

Provosts Office Changes Hands

Boetsch and Williams

“l really miss the day-to-day
engagement with students

in the classroom.”

—[LARRY BOETSCH ’69

= OE o ea Wake © ue eae dae ane e Wee

 

shocked and grieving campus after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,
2001. Just six weeks later, he helped launch W&L’s Campaign for
the Rising Generation.

Indicative of the wide-ranging respect the W&L communi-
ty holds for Boetsch and his wife, Elizabeth, the Board of Trustees
established the Laurent and Elizabeth Boetsch Honor
Scholarship to express its “deep and profound gratitude for the
efforts of Larry and Elizabeth Boetsch in advancing the mission
of the University.” Additionally, the Class of 1978, in celebration
of its 25th reunion, founded the Class of 1978 Scholarship in
Honor of Laurent Boetsch.

‘Taking over as
provost is physics pro-
fessor H. ‘Thomas
Williams Jr. As chief
academic officer and
provost, he is second
only to the president.
Williams, the acting
dean of the College,
assumed his duties on
July 1. Burish praised
Williams for his enor-
mous knowledge of
higher education in
general and of W&L in
particular.

“Tt 1s clear that he
has enormous respect
throughout the Wash-
ington and Lee com-

ie Sa. ae

TOM WILLIAMS,
W&L’S NEW PROVOST

munity due to his
many talents, calm and
insightful approach to
problems, generous and
self-effacing nature and
considerable experience as a faculty member and administrator,”
Burish said. “Tom brings these talents and qualities to the provost
position at a critical time—one which presents challenges, many
of which are confronting most institutions of higher education,
and several of which are specific to our campus. ‘These challenges
come with corresponding opportunities.”

Williams holds overall management and budgeting responsi-
bility for all academic programs, with the deans of the College; the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics
and Politics; and the School of Law reporting
directly to him. He also will be responsible for
athletics, admissions, institutional research,
Leyburn Library, University Computing and
the registrar’s office, as well as international
education, interdisciplinary and special pro-

 

6 oe WEE se Sh ep

MiA. @ A =2- 35 NPE

Photos by lan Bradshaw

  

THE Cc Co & O NN A DE

 

 

grams, museum programs and student life
offices.

‘The provost plays a Key role in the
recruitment, selection and orientation of
new faculty; the annual evaluation of fac-
ulty and administrators; and the creation,
promotion and execution of institutional
academic goals. He works closely with the
Board of ‘Irustees’ Academic Affairs
Committee.

‘The post is demanding and challeng-
ing, said Williams. “I am quite honored to
be given this opportunity,” he said. “I
bring to this position a long history as a
member of the faculty. ‘This, along with
the extraordinary dedication and talent of
those with whom I will work, give me
confidence that I can play a role in
enhancing and expanding the existing
strengths of Washington and Lee in busi-
ness, law and the liberal arts.”

Williams, a member of the faculty
since 1974, has helped build the physics
and engineering program into an exem-
plary student-centered and collaborative
research department. He chaired the
department from 1989-2000 and in 1994
was named Edwin A. Morris Professor of
Physics.

In his nearly 30-year career here,
Williams has held key administrative posi-
tions, including associate dean of the
College from 1986-1989. He also has
served on numerous academic commit-
tees, including presidential search panels,
and has been a respected advisor to five
presidents. At the same time, Williams has
continued his student advising and teach-
ing, while also publishing 28 scientific arti-
cles based on his research in theoretical
nuclear and particle physics.

A native of Hampton, Va., Williams
said several years ago that his biggest con-
tribution to W&L “has been in teaching a
collection of very talented students,
encouraging them when that was needed,
challenging them when the time came
and standing aside when it was time for
them to solo.”

“tn Tact, he- adged, “that
Washington and Lee’s biggest contribu-

iS

tion to me, too.”

     
   
   
 

 

he Board of ‘Trustees has elected Philip W.
Norwood ’69, of Charlotte, N.C., to be the University’s next Rector, effective in
October. He will succeed J. Frank Surface Jr. °60, a Jacksonville, Fla., businessman.
who has served two full terms in the position. The Rector serves as chair of the
University’s Board of ‘Trustees. Norwood will hold the office until his 10-year
board term expires in 2006.
Norwood is the president and chief executive of Faison Enterprises, one of the
largest commercial real estate development and investment management firms onl
the East Coast. )
Niivnpear;t.aoGm NORWOOD °>69 BECOMES NEW
private law prac- ¥ = ea ‘
tice, he has spent
the past 23 years
working in_ his
current field.
Norwood
has been a mem-
ber of the Board
of ‘Irustees since
February 1997.
From October
2000—February
2003, he chaired
the Board’s Capi-

tal Projects Com-

FRANK SURFACE AND

HIS SUCCESSOR,

C8 eee co legge) oe

mittee and guid- PHILIP NORWOOD ’69

ed its oversight
of construction and renovation projects on campus, including the new sorority
houses, the parking garage, the renovation of Reid Hall, the new fitness center,
the Cap’n Dick Smith baseball stadium and the new athletic fields. Norwood’s
crowning achievement in his leadership of the committee will be the John W.
Elrod University Commons.

Surface has been a member of the W&L Board of ‘Trustees since February
1996 and has served as Rector since November 1997. He is chairman and chief
executive officer of Community Resource Systems Inc., of Jacksonville, a compa-
ny that finances and manages the personnel recruitment, social facilities and infta-
structure systems of planned-unit communities. :

During his tenure, Surface helped guide the University after the untimely
loss of President John W. Elrod in 2001 and the subsequent search and election of
President Thomas G. Burish. He also led the Board of Trustees as it initiated the
University’s comprehensive strategic planning process, linking this initiative 4
closely to the priorities of the $225 million capital campaign.

Also under Surface’s leadership, the Board simplified the system of student -
self-governance; established the Committee on Inclusiveness to further diversify
the University’s faculty, staff and student body; tackled the difficult issue of estab- —
lishing stronger University policies for the abuse of alcohol and illegal drugs on
campus; conducted a comprehensive review of its athletic program; and presided
over the celebration of W& Ls 250th anniversary.

 

 

 

Waisch 4 a9

bk We SP POR:

DA CAS Ge A FZ le Nee OE

 

 

THE Co L ON NCA DE

 

ie 7
Ad LET EN

eee eee ee) =
meee SBOTTOM OF THE WORLD.

 

Captain’s Log: “Antarctica and the Falkland Islands,” Jan, 12-27, 2003

 

It is a fortunate traveler who beholds one of Antarctica’s legendary days of blue and
white. One arrived in all its splendor early this morning. ‘The Hanseatic had entered the
Gerlache Strait shortly after midnight, and now, as the sun rose higher in the ice-blue
sky, casting the mountains and the glaciers into high relief, we could behold the
Antarctic in all of its stark grandeur. ;

Cliffs of gray shale and schist, many capped with thick, overhanging bonnets of
snowpack, towered over the strait. Between them, vast fields of cracked and shattered
meringue, the myriad glaciers frozen at precipitous angles to the sea, each field slivered
with blue light glowing like neon within. Several mountains of gnarled basalt revealed
ancient volcanic activity, while other cliff faces were formed of sheared sedimentary
rock, twisted and wrenched at tortuous angles, revealing the earth’s titanic forces of com-
pression and uplift eons ago.

But the overall effect was beauty. It was so lovely to be gliding through this won-
derland of mountain, snow and ice framed between competing blues of sea and sky. It
seemed a world frozen in its purity, as if nature had a free hand to pave the magnificent
slopes of ice fields as she wished, to carve impossibly steep mountains and to play with
her palette of blue light as if she feared too much of white would be a tedium.

‘The sun had a hand in the matter

The Caribbean Under Sail
Jan. 3-8, 2004

Yucatan: Kingdoms of the Maya
Jan. 18-29, 2004

Waterways of Holland and Belgium
April 15-30, 2004

Toujours Paris
May 3-10, 2004

F . ‘

°F more information on upcoming trips,
se

© http://alumnicollege.wlu.edu or con-
fact the Office o

f Special Programs at
940/458-8723, spcl

prog@wlu.edu.

as well, washing the crowns of glaciers
with a soft sheen of light brighter than the
sky, casting shadows across the cliffs and
crumpled glaciers to give them dramatic
definition, and then drawing our eyes up
through a snow-swaddled valley toward a
mountaintop miles in the distance, shim-
mering with a sunlit veil of cloud. Indeed,
it seemed that all of the elements con-
spired on this day to celebrate the eye, the
organ that rightly made Darwin shudder,
this miraculous gift of sight.

 

Creditworthy

Communications Kudos

‘The Virginia Communications Hall of
Fame inducted eight new members in
April—three of them with Washington
and Lee connections. Louis W. Hodges,
newly retired Knight Professor of
Ethics in Journalism at W&L, founded
the school’s program in that area. ‘Two
alumni join him in the honor. Weyd
Dobyns "57 worked for NBC News
from 1969 to 1986 and is now the Ayers
Chair in the department of communi-
cations at Jacksonville State University,
Alabama. James S.Wamsley’50, '53L is
a travel writer who edited Common-
wealth magazine for the state of Virginia
for 19 years.

Another W&L journalist,
Hampden H. “Ham” Smith, professor
of journalism, won the George Mason
Award for outstanding contributions to
Virginia journalism from the Virginia
Chapter of the Society of Professional
Journalists. Bruce Potter ’85, director
of news synergy for Media General
Inc., nominated his former professor,
who has just stepped down as head of
the department of journalism and
mass Communications.

Crants Advance Science

‘Three science faculty members
have received grants from the
‘Thomas FE. Jeffress and Kate Miller
Jeffress Memorial ‘Trust. Winners
for the 2003-04 academic year are
James Eason,
of physics, who is investigating
heart attacks and coronary heart
disease; Helen I'Anson, associate
who is

assistant professor

professor of biology,
researching brain signals in female
reproductive development; and
Erich Uffelman, associate professor
of chemistry, who 1s studying ways

of controlling the chemistry of met-

 

W oa sch i & @ to ne

 

—Rob Fure | als for environmentally safer use
in industry.
and Lo @A6¢ 75 AOL Ue I Mik @ ao. 6k

THE C0 LL ON NCA DCE

 

 

Creditworthy

Uffelman also is the recipient of
a $70,830 grant from the National
Science Foundation. ‘The money
will enable the chemistry depart-
ment to upgrade its high-field
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
spectrometer, thus enabling students
and faculty to study molecular struc-
tures at a higher level.

Higher Education

Virginia governor Mark R. Warner
appointed Mimi Milner Elrod, direc-
tor of the Summer Scholars program,
to the board of the State Council of
Higher Education, which represents
and coordinates the activities of
Virginia’s public and private colleges
and universities. Elrod also recently
became a member of Lexington’s
city council.

Jump!

Roger A. Crockett, professor of
German, won the long jump compe-
tition in his age group (55— 59) at the
USA ‘Track & Field National
Masters Indoor Championships this
spring. His winning long Jump mea-
sured 5.26 meters, and he placed
second in the triple jump with a
10.22-meter effort.

Memorial Listing

 

On Jan. 13, 2003, the faculty unan-
imously approved “a memorial
listing all those students who have
died at Washington and Lee
University since 1945 [to] be
established at an appropriate place
on the campus.” William C.
“Burr” Datz ’75, director of lead-
ership development, chairs a com-
mittee, which includes students,
to find the best design and loca-
tion for the memorial.

 

 

Alumni Board Welcomes New Members

 

Rebecca K. Brandt '90, of Denver, received
her law degree from Rutgers University. She
clerked for a superior court judge before
entering private practice in New Jersey.
‘There she served on the local W&L Alumni
Board as treasurer and vice-president. In
2000, she moved to Denver, where she prac-
tices domestic relations law as a senior associ-
ate at the Harris Law Firm. She is the presi-
dent of the Rocky Mountain Alumni
Chapter.

Joseph L. Carrerre’77, of New Orleans, is
a general partner of Keenan Capital Ltd., a
private investment part-
nership focused on ven-
ture capital, private and
public equity and real
estate investments. He
has served on the board
of the local alumni
chapter and as class
agent, admissions pro-
gram chairman and reunion co-chairman. He
is amember of the W&L Parents Council. In
1999, Carrerre received the W&L 250th
Anniversary Award.

Douglas M. Cummings '91, of Wilming-
ton, Del., is a senior executive vice president
of MBNA America and
a member of the com-
pany’s senior operating
and management com-
mittees, responsible for
the regional marketing
division. He is vice
chairman of the W&L
Annual Fund.

Cc. Carrett Moseley '88, of Charlotte,
N.C., is a vice president with Rittenhouse/
Nuveen Investments
Inc. During his senior
year, he interned with
the Reagan admunistra-
tion. Upon graduation,
with
assignments for the
George H. W. Bush
administration and the
Bush/Quayle ’92 and Dole 96 campaigns. He

he continued

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 

works for First Union’s Capital Management
Group and Wachovia Securities Consul
Group in Charlotte and received his certified |
investment management designation in 1996,
Moseley served as president of the Charlotte
Alumni Chapter (winner of the Small
Chapter of the Year) in 1995,

David D. Redmond '66, '69L 54
Richmond, is a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa and was editor of the WEL [gy
Review, president of his Law class and presj-_
dent of Sigma Nu. After serving in Vietnam,
Redmond joined Christian & Barton in 1972
He specializes in com-
mercial real estate and
corporate law and
chairs the firm’s real
estate department.
Redmond has served
W&L as Board mem-
ber and president of
the Richmond Alumni
Chapter, member of the Richmond Area
Capital Campaign Committee, Law class
agent, member of the Board of Directors, past
president of the Law Alumni Association and
member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

David Kerr Weaver '60, of Manchester
by-the-Sea, Mass., served as president 0
Sigma Nu, Openings Dance Set and Fancy
Dress Ball; led the Sazeracs; and was elect
ed to Omicron Delta Kappa. After four
years in the Navy, he
obtained a Ph.D. in
wildlife management
at the University of

Michigan. From
1971-1990, he was
director of natural
resources manage-

ment for Hennepin
Parks, near Minneapolis. He then moved t
Washington as grants administrator for the |
North American Wetlands Conservation”
Fund, retiring in 2002. Weaver has bee
class agent for the past 10 years and reunion |
chairman and co-chairman. He 1s currentl
chairman of the Class of 1960's Committee
for the Institute for Honor. 4

 

 

Wsetha agin s

a : ree

d nd

WA Ac @ A a2 els Ne E

 

 

THE GH me ee ee ake eee ae ae

 

a

ffice at the back of Alvin-Dennis, the store at the corner of
econ and Jefferson Streets that’s kept W&L in khakis
- 3. is a jumble of boxes, papers and packaged white

96 ;
since | o be pressed. The walls are lined with group

shirts waiting ¢
shots of clean-cut former employ-
ees interspersed with photos of a8
d farm landscapes. Amid
s hangs a framed list
even Practices

cows an
the picture
enumerating “ful :
of Good Business.” And behind

the desk sits Alvin Carter, who
has spent the last 40 years putting
those principles into practice at
Alvin-Dennis.

Carter, a Rockbridge County
native, was only 28 when he
decided to rent the rundown
brick building that had originally
been a grocery. Having worked
for three years at Thomas Ltd.,
then a men’s store on Nelson
Street, Carter knew he liked the
clothing business, and he con-
vinced his longtime friend and
fellow local, Dennis Dixon, to
join him as partner. The two
decided to use their first names
for the store’s moniker: Alvin-
Dennis. “It had to have a name,
and it just stuck,” Carter said
with a smile.

The partners formulated a
plan to appeal to both VMI and
W&L students. They would
employ members of several
W&L fraternities, as well as VMI “barracks representatives,”
knowing the workers would bring in their friends. Alvin-
Dennis would also offer charge accounts and deliver bills
directly to the fraternities. (“We'd take ’em boxes,” recalled
Carter, the consummate businessman. “It
saved postage.”) And the store’s upscale

OF ALVIN-DENNIS,

GINNY AND ALVIN CARTER, PROPRIETORS

 

 

Before long they were simply bringing the jackets to campus
and hanging them on pegs while they attended classes. ‘hen
the ties began to loosen. Vietnam War-era activism stirred on
campus, bringing its leaning toward tie-dye and blue jeans.
“The whole idea of conventional
dress seemed to evaporate
overnight,” said Parsons.

‘Those were lean years for
Alvin-Dennis. Lexington physi-
cian David Ellington (VMI ’71),
then working as a barracks repre-
sentative, remembered, “Back
behind where the desk is now,
there used to be a storage room,
where we spent a lot of time—
Alvin, Dennis and I—playing
spades.” Although Dixon left the
business in 1973 to become a
realtor, Carter stayed the course,
and the pendulum eventually
swung back. When preppy fash-
ion exploded in pink and green
1980s,

couldn’t sell khakis fast enough.

in the Alvin-Dennis
‘The store expanded to nearly
double its original size in 1985.
Alvin-Dennis’ easygoing ap-
proach to selling has created a
loyal following among students,
faculty, townspeople and alumni.

Photos by Patrick Hinely ’73

No one, however, is more devot-
ed to the store than its former
employees. From the
Carter and Dixon created an

TAKE A BREAK FROM
OUTFITTING W&L CUSTOMERS
WITH A TRADITIONAL WARDROBE.

start,

atmosphere where education

counted for more than punching the clock. Students have

always worked when they’ve wanted and been encouraged to

take time off whenever they’ve had tests or papers due. “I tell
them their schoolwork comes first,” said Carter.

“What I liked about it was you had

total flexibility on your hours,” remem-

 

merchandise would correspond’ with
Washington and Lee’s dress code, which
then required students to wear coats and ties
to classes.

The strategy proved successful until
the late 1960s, when the dress code began to
unravel. According to Frank Parsons 34,
Who went on to 4 career as a W&L adminis-

tr “ :
_ The first thing to go was socks.”
.
N students began to carry their coats
hooked

On One finger over their shoulders.

Alvin-Dennis’ easygoing
approach to selling classic
clothes has created a loyal
following among students,
faculty, townspeople and
alumni. No one, however,

is more devoted to the

store than its former

employees.

bered former employee Glenn Moore ’69,
*74L (whose son, Charles ’04, currently
works at the store). “On the other hand,
you didn’t make any money. You just got
credit toward clothing at a discount.” ‘The
Alvin-Dennis policy held that workers
which
exchanged for clothes at 20 percent off, a

earned hourly wages, they
discount Carter honors for all former
employees. ‘loday, he also pays students a
small commission on top of the clothes.

 

We cha & @ tw * and

 

fone Ml Ow ou ew

NG Re GER Ze is OND

 

Ellington said you could tell the VMI and W&L employees
apart because “the VMI guys would always work the hours, then
buy the clothes, and the W&L guys bought the clothes, then
worked the hours.” Jerry
Weedon ’70, an attorney in
Jacksonville, Fla., points
out another thing that dis-
tinguished the Keydets:
“They used to buy every-
thing brown.” Ellington
laughed, “That’s absolutely

correct. I had a brown suit!”

 

One thing all the workers share to this day is a deep
respect and affection for Dixon and Carter. “They treated
you great,” Ellington said. “You would just do anything for
them.” For Ellington, that included cleaning the building’s
basement, enduring the dreaded chore of taking year-end
inventory and even cutting and baling hay on Carter’s cattle
farm.

‘The feeling was mutual. Dixon used to invite workers
to his house to watch Monday night football, and in the
1970s, Carter began an annual golf tournament and barbe-
cue for all current and former employees. ‘Today the tourna-
ment is a thing of the past because, Carter explained, there
are no longer enough student employees to make it worth-
while. “We don’t have as many that are as anxious to work as
we did a few years ago,” he said. “I have a feeling they'd
rather work for money than for clothes since they don’t dress
up the way they used to.”

But Alvin-Dennis has still prospered without the stu-
dent help. For the past 14 years, Carter’s right-hand man
has, in fact, been a woman: his daughter, Ginny, who joined
Alvin-Dennis after graduating from college in 1989. “It’s
interesting working with men’s fashion and how it doesn’t
change that much,” she said. “I mean, a tweed coat’s a
tweed coat. ‘The majority of our stock doesn’t go out of
style.”

Nevertheless, she would like to update Alvin-Dennis in
one area. “Eventually, I think we should get more modern-
ized with a computer and a Web site,” she said, to allow
alumni to order from the store and to simplify bookkeeping.
After 40 years in business, though, Carter offers a distinctly
low-tech explanation for his success: “By being here every
day, as much as possible.”

“] think we know what we’re doing when people come
in here,” he said. “We have good merchandise at a good
price. And we know how to fit people. It’s not high pressure.”
Plus, the pendulum is once more swinging back in Alvin-
Dennis’ direction. According to Ginny, “Lacoste shirts and
madras pants—now they’re just the hottest thing again!”

—Laura Parsons

Ones « Tags Wie o ae ea ey ae eae

  
 
 

 

WEL Moves Up the Ladder

 

  
 

Weahingisn and Lee University is ranked the 12th bet lib
eral arts institution in the country according to ( 8. News &
World Report, a significant increase over last year’ s]
ranking. W&L i is the only liberal arts

university in. Virginia ranked in

the top 30 and is among seven

schools in the South included

in the top 50 schools. —

~ “Thanks to the support of _

~ alumni and friends and the

_ hard work of faculty and oth-

- ers, we continue to offer one of |

the very best educations avail-

able anywhere,” said President
Thomas G. Burish. “While many of

the special qualities of ‘Washington and Lee, a
. accomplishments and core values, are ‘not capt
_ zine ratings, the University i 1S pleased tc to be re

of be ee voter in the or :

 

raakiies are Doles acting Williams “

_ and Swarthmore (#3), as well as Carl 0!
Wellesley (tied at #4), Davidson and Middlel Ir

| a ee Bowdoin (#10) and i (#1

VP Resigns

  
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
  

Vice President for University Relations David R. Long 1
resigned in August for personal reasons. Long, who led the q
development, alumni relations and communications fune- ;
tions, leaves after 15 years of service to the University. j

During Long’s tenure at W&L, the University expeti- |
enced some of its most dramatic fundraising achievements. In
June, the University met its $225 million capital campaign
goal six months ahead of the campaign’s Dec. 31 close. This
milestone was reached despite the fundraising challenges
caused by a weakened economy and stock market. |

Long, who credited the tremendous commitment of the
school’s many supporters nationwide, said in June, “The cam
paign’s success is a testament to the devotion and confidence
of W&Ls 21,000 alumni, members of its Board of ‘Trustees and
private foundations.”

With Long’s departure, Dick Sessoms, the senior director
of major gifts, will postpone his retirement until the end of the
fiscal year (June 30, 2004), and Farris Hotchkiss, retired senior
assistant to the president, has agreed to help with fundraising
duties through the close of the campaign.

 

Washington and

Sixt BE om Bu wa

MieA€@ AcZ. hk Nee

 

 

THE yo Nas We ee ae ay Wane ag =

 

last two decades, the bell on the counter of the W&L bookstore was a vital
F he place. A leftover from a board game called Pit, it allowed clients to beckon
ie he cash register from somewhere upstairs or downstairs in cramped

Fort

part O
q salesperson to ¢

stacked wit | | | , :
to the manager's office, for it has outlived its usefulness with the bookstore’s

o deluxe new digs at the new John W. Elrod University Commons.

ger Lidge Roller, who has worked at the bookstore for 20 years, calls the new

ace” and compliments the architects and designers who put it all
together. Large windows hold

h papers, textbooks and supplies. ‘he hard-working bell has now
rooms

retired
move t

Mana
store a “glorious sp

displays of merchandise and
allow plenty of natural light to
stream in. Current books, school
supplies and W&L products
reside on the entry floor, along
with comfortable chairs to let
customers relax. ‘The second-
story loft holds textbooks for the
College and the Law School.
“Students will
atmosphere much more,” said

enjoy the

Roller. “It provides more user-
friendly space and should dra-
matically cut down the hassle of
textbook rush.” She hopes that
students and employees alike
will be less stressed during the
beginning of the semester, when
students flood the store before
the start of classes.

Once the semester is under-
way, the staff will move the text-
books to basement storage, and
the extra space will be available

for book signings, theater pro-
STEVE DES

RDINS, ASSOCIATE PRO
FESSOR OF CHEMISTRY, AND DEBORAH

ductions and storytelling time
for children. ‘The space will be

CAYLOR, CON? POLLER, WERE TWO OF
MANY CAMPUS RESIDENTS WHO

ee mm stORE MOVE.

available to both students and
Lexington residents. ‘The new

 

design is also meant to appeal to
locals, with a huge stock of art supplies and contemporary books. Despite all the
changes, Roller sees no reason to worry about losing the personal feel of the bookstore.
All the faces will be the same, she said, but “our smiles will only be wider.”
| She added, “The store is good at adapting. We’ve had to do it for the last 20 years,
_e the [old] space was always ‘temporary.’ ” The lack of legroom in the previous
location made inventory a difficult task for employees. “I’ve never even had enough
foom to lay down paper to wrap a package,” said Roller.

Even though customers no longer have to ring a bell for service, Roller advises
- of the old store not to worry about the new facility becoming a look-alike of a
: , chain bookstore. “The joy of it all is the students,” said Roller. “And

ey keep coming back, it’ll have the same great feel.”

2.3?

—Amanda Hall

 

Bookshelf

 

Another Pearl Harbor

The .day:-.after-.. Peasi-. Harbor,
Japanese forces again decimated
U.S. forces, this time in. the
Philippines. William H. Bartsch °55
presents 25 years of research into
that day in December 8, 1941:
MacArthur’s Pearl Harbor.

| ANDERSON

 

Science and Biography

W. French Anderson: Father of Gene
Therapy, by Bob Burke and Barry
Epperson ’60, tells the story of an
Oklahoman who pioneered this cor-
ner of science and medicine.

 

A Clergyman’s Story

James Brewster ’46 has published
his third novel, 7Ze Vicar of Afton,
about an Episcopal priest serving a
parish on the Chesapeake Bay.

 

 

BE ke es

Washington and

Wie Ae GS tAce Ze Ie Ee EB

  

CO LL ON N AOD EE

 

 

Bookshelf

ESSER EAE as BI |

Changing Minds

 

i8th-Century France

John C. O’Neal ’72, of Clinton, N-Y.,
has published Changing Minds: The
Shifting Perception of Culture in
Eighteenth-Century France. \t discusses,
among other subjects, Voltaire’s histo-
ry of manners and animal souls.

 

 

Southern Life

R. ‘TE. Smith, editor of Shenandoah,
the University’s literary journal,
unveils a new collection of poems.
He limns in verse the stories of the
residents of Opelika, Ala., as they
gather at The Hollow Log Lounge.

 

Crowing Up

Donald D. Hook ’50 collects his
memories of Lynchburg, Va., in
Back Then—tThose Were the Days:
Recollections of a Boy Growing Up
During the Depression.

 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 

Dawn K. Watkins, dean of freshmen since 2001, has been promoted to dean of students, She q
replaces David Howison, who retired this summer after 13 years with the University
Watkins now reports to the University provost and is responsible for residence life, health
and wellness services, multicultural
affairs, student activities, career ser-
vices, the freshman program, security
and supervision of the Greek system.

President ‘Thomas Burish said,
“In the brief time she has been at
W&L, Dawn has gained widespread
respect from all segments of the
University community. She sets high
standards for herself and others, has
boundless energy and is enormously
talented. She is a terrific person for this
critically important position.”

Former provost Larry Boetsch ’69,
who chaired the search committee,
added, “Dawn was selected from an
extremely competitive pool of national
candidates, and we are excited to have »
her as our next dean of students. As
dean of freshmen, Dawn has proven
herself to be extremely capable, dedi-
cated and well-liked, and I know she
will flourish in her new assignment.”

ARE FIRST FEMALE
W&L.

DAWN WATKINS,
DEAN OF STUDENTS AT

“Having worked closely with
Dawn for two years, I am delighted with her appointment,” said Howison, the retiring dean,
“She has worked hard to earn the trust and respect of our students and her colleagues. I look
forward to working with Dawn during our transition to new leadership. She will be a terrific —
dean of students.” | 4

“I feel privileged to be serving Washington and Lee as the next dea: of scudental
Working for and with Washington and Lee students is a true pleasure,” Watkins said. “T have 4
big shoes to fill, but I benefit from working with exceptional students and dedicated and
hard-working colleagues. I am very excited.” |

TrRoustleE

wee | ATP

MARSHALL BOS WET

  

Musings About Mythology Teenage Trials

In The Trouble With Girls, Marshall
Boswell ’88 collects his short stores

about a Memphis teenager named

Myth and Knowing: An Introduction to
World Mythology, by Scott A. Leonard
and Michael McClure, English instruc-

 

tor and buyer for the University book- Parker Hayes.
store, is a comprehensive textbook on
the subject.

Wig schdi & @ too and anne Mia 6 AST Pow a

 

 

a

embers of the W&L commu-
nity have been actively discussing
a University's undergraduate acad-
emic calendar. This discussion was
prompted by a report ee last
March by the President $ Advisory
Committee. The committee was
charged with recommending ways
an sustain its rich

Many ™

the University ¢
undergraduate curriculum and teach-
ing excellence and maintain its chat-
acteristically small class sizes, while
honoring the previous administra-
tion’s decision to reduce the W&L
faculty’s average teaching load from
seven courses per year to s. tne
reduction in faculty course-load 1s
considered essential to attracting and
retaining faculty of the highest quali-
ty. Average faculty course-load at the
vast majority of W&Ls
peer liberal arts insti-
tutions, for instance, is
four to five courses
per year.

‘The convergence
of these issues has necessitated a reexamination of the rela-
tionship of the undergraduate academic calendar to the facul-
ty course-load and the implications of a change in either.
Therefore, by necessity, the Spring Term calendar issue,
which was not fully resolved three years ago, is still under
examination.

Established in 1970 under President Robert Huntley 50,
97L, and called the “New Curriculum,” the six-week Spring
‘Term was created to “offer a wide variety of on-campus semi-
Mars, interdepartmental courses, tutorials and independent
Study projects,” said the WEL Alumni Magazine in September
1974. ‘Today, the Spring ‘Term remains popular among students
and includes study-abroad programs, internships with govern-
ment agencies and financial institutions in Washington and
New York and field-based research in the sciences and human-
les, although more than half of these classes are also routinely
pitcred during one of the other 12-week terms. As the faculty
recognized in its 2001 vote of conditional support for keeping
Spring Term, it needs some fixing,

Below is a conversation with Dr. ‘Tom Williams, who, as the
NEW provost, is facilitating the wide-ranging discussion of the
undergraduate academic calendar among the interested parties.

[f the faculty endorsed the current 12-12-6
lendar in a vote in 2001 , why is the cal-

TOM WILLIAMS, PROVOST

 

OGA With Provost Tom Willams
About the Undergraduate Academic Calendar

THE ibe © Vey aaa oe ae dee ea mee <3

 

endar issue back up for

debate?
In 2001, the faculty voted to keep

the Spring ‘Term on the condition
that measures be taken to ensure
academic rigor across the Spring Term
curriculum. One such measure, rec-
ommended by the Spring Term
Renewal Committee, was that stu-
dents be required to take no fewer
than six credits each Spring ‘Term.
‘The recommendation of these
improvements occurred simultaneous-
ly with then-President John Elrod’s
commitment to reduce the undergrad-
uate faculty teaching load from seven
to six courses a year over a four-year

Photo by lan Bradshaw

period. He felt, as does the current
administration, that this step was nec-
essary to stay competitive in attracting
the best faculty, as
most of W&Ls com-
petitor schools range
from four- to five-
course teaching loads.

This proposed increase in student enrollment in Spring
‘Term courses, coupled with the teaching load reduction, would
require hiring many additional faculty. Current financial
resources would not allow hiring a large number of faculty and
building new office and lab space for them as the sole means of
addressing these challenges. For this and other reasons, addi-
tional steps are needed.

What progress has been made over the summer on

the calendar issue?

‘Three working groups, comprising faculty, a student and
an administration liaison, have submitted reports. Each group
studied one of the three viable calendar models: a revised ver-
sion of our current 12-12-6 calendar; a 13-13-4 calendar fea-
turing a shorter spring term; and a 14-14 two-semester model,
with the possibility of an optional four-week May term. Each
group thoughtfully analyzed the calendar model under its
consideration and issued a report, now available on the
University’s Web site.

How will the calendar tissue be addressed in the

new academic year?

‘The faculty will meet to discuss the reports in September
and at the end of the month will vote to recommend one of the
three calendar models.

continued

 

W sh i
Sih aA © Gt we 2 and

 

a ee ee

Miike G&A ee? Eo ee

THE Cc: oO’ L::O N N A DE

 

What factors bear on the timing for the faculty

vole?

All of the relevant issues must be adequately consid-
ered, but the vote must not be delayed unnecessarily. All
constituencies have had ongoing opportunities for input, the

data has been gath-

The convergence of these issues ered and shared and

has necessitated a reexamination now we must focus

of the relationship of the under- on a resolution that

graduate academic calendar to the moves the University

faculty course-load and the impli- forward.

cations of a change in either. ‘The initial time-

Therefore, by necessity, the Spring table called for a fac-
ulty vote in Spring
2003, but iH ‘was

delayed in order to

Term calendar issue, which was not
fully resolved three years ago, is
still under examination.

 

give all constituen-
cies further opportunity to examine the data and provide
feedback. ‘The September faculty vote also will give the
administration time to prepare for the presentation of the
issues to the Board of ‘Trustees at their October meeting.

How will the dectsion ultimately be made?

‘The faculty vote is not the end of the process. Such a
global look at our academic setting 1s a complicated process,
and the ultimate resolution will be the result of extensive
collaboration among the faculty, the administration and the
Board of ‘Irustees.

By the end of October, the group reports will have been
reviewed, the faculty will have voted and the Board will
begin considering the financial implications as part of its
fiduciary responsibilities.

‘The Board hopes to make the calendar preferences of
the faculty and administration financially feasible, while
ensuring the best possible educational experience for W&L
students. Sometime prior to the end of the 2003-2004 acad-
emic year, a final resolution should be in hand.

[f a calendar change 1s made, when would it
take effect?

A change in the academic calendar will require exten-
sive planning. Even if we retain the 12-12-6 calendar, we
must plan for the implementation of the reforms suggested
by the Spring ‘erm Renewal Report. In addition, we are
simultaneously, and appropriately, studying our general edu-
cation requirements, and any changes suggested by this
study also should be in place as the academic calendar
reform is instituted. ‘The earliest this could occur is Fall
2005, but Fall 2006 is a distinct possibility.

For ongoing updates on the calendar issue, see
Washington and Lee’s Web site at www.wlu.edu/calendardis-
cussion.

  
  

 

CAPT. PENISTON TAKES A BREAK
ON THE NEW JERSEY.

Pentston Fetes His Old Ship

Capt. Robert Peniston, retired director of Lee Chapel and
Museum and retired Navy officer, was briefly recalled to duty as
the keynote speaker for the 60th birthday of the U.S.S. New
Jersey on May 23 in Camden, N.J., the permanent berth of the
battleship. In 1946, as a newly commissioned officer, Peniston

   
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
   

 

reported for duty aboard the three-year-old man-of-war as junior
officer, turret No. 2. Almost 23 years later, he became its com-
manding officer. In 1969, he spoke movingly at the ship’s
decommissioning ceremony: “Rest well, yet sleep lightly, and
hear the call, if again sounded, to provide firepower for free-
dom.” It was recommissioned in 1982 but now is retired for
good. He repeated those words at this year’s event and added his
“heartfelt gratitude to all the sailors who have faithfully served
aboard New Jersey, and, in doing so, have faithfully served the
United States Navy and the United States of America.”

 

LEFT TO RIGHT: BETH CREASEY ’04, KELLY
SUGARMAN ’03, SARAH STURTZ ’°03, MARK BARKEF® ’
703, GRANT DRAGAN ’0O3 AND BOWER CELEBRATE: [|

Savvy Students, Proud Professor

  
    
  
 
 

 

Amanda Bower, assistant professor of management, and Bru
Macdonald, executive in residence and _ visiting lecture "1
coached W&L students to second place in the Americal
Advertising Federation competition. The first-time compe |
tors used new techniques in account planning to generate con-
sumer insights and definitions for an ad campaign for

‘Toyota Matrix.

 

 

We aisha. & gat ie. and

 

fi gg EE a a

Met Ag GG AY eZ 2 be NE

 

 

 

a

college students typically stay up ull the wee nous of the
- hr and sleep as late as they can, but Olivia Eustis, Lauren
a : David Shriver and Ann Bailey Lynn spent their winter
_ ‘ng to bed at 10 p.m. and rising around 6 a.m. “My
BF cache I didn’t want to hang out with them anymore,”
Se reacts. “J had to ask my roommates to please be quiet,”

added Burrows.

Welcome to the
world of student
teachers, where stay-
ing one step ahead of
your young charges
requires at least eight
hours of sleep a night,
lots of preparation and
a Zen-like serenity.

These four gradu-
ated June 5. with
licenses to teach in
public schools, follow-
ing in the footsteps of
other W&L graduates
who have entered the
teaching profession.
For many years, W&L
has had an arrangement with Mary Baldwin’s teacher educa-
tion program; interested students commuted to Staunton to
take classes leading to licensure. Three years ago, W&L
hired Nanette Partlett to direct a teacher education program
on campus, making it easier for students to pursue the pro-
fession. Students still have to commute to Mary Baldwin for
most of their teacher education classes, but they can take
their Foundations of Education and capstone seminar with
Partlett at W&L. She also helps place them in Lexington
schools for their practicum.

It’s not an easy path. In addition to satisfying W&L’s
general education requirements and the coursework neces-
Sary to complete a major, students must complete five edu-
cation courses plus a substantial number of student teaching
hours in the field. “I have a deep admiration for W&L stu-
dents,” said Partlett. “They seem to be able to juggle so

 

Ann Bailey Lynn ’03

 

 

teering at an elementary school.

oho eee C10 LON NA D E

 

many demands at one time and yet still remain focused.”
She believes W&Ls liberal arts education, with its emphasis
on developing intellectual curiosity and analytical thinking,
gives them a strong background for the career they have
chosen.

‘The transition from student to teacher can be daunting.
Reading about educa-
tional theories and
putting them to prac-
tice are as different as
night and day. During
break

before her practicum

the winter

began, Burrow con-
fessed, she spent all
her time thinking
about her foray into
her second grade class
at Waddell Elemen-
“What

have I gotten myself

tary School.

into? [’'m in charge of
all these kids and what
if I do horribly? What
if they fail their SOLs

[Virginia’s Standards of Learning tests] because of me? I was

OLIVIA EUSTIS ’O3 KEEPS AN EYE ON HER FOURTH-GRADERS.

scared to death.”

Shriver, who taught chemistry at Rockbridge County
High School, added, “There is so much material that must
be covered and a limited amount of time to cover it. Nothing
ever takes the amount of time you thought it would.
Whether it runs long or short, the timing is always off.” At
her fourth grade class at Waddell, Eustis admitted, it took her
students a little while to accept her as the teacher. “I didn’t
feel that I was in control until about three weeks later.”

It’s the kind of baptism by fire that you have to live
before you can understand what it means to be a teacher.
Keeping students with differing abilities on track, enforcing
discipline and adapting lessons on the spur of the moment
were difficult tasks to master. “People have said to me, ‘Oh,

9

teaching. Anyone can do that,’” marveled Burrow. “They

The Sarah C. Ball Teaching Award—Ann Bailey Lynn ’03 received the first Sarah G.
Ball ‘Teaching Award, established by Chris and Willis Ball 69 in honor of their daughter,
Sarah 01, who teaches Spanish in Denver. The $4,000 stipend augments the first- and
second-year salaries of new teachers who choose to teach in financially disadvantaged dis-
tricts. Lynn, who begins her teaching career at Westlawn Elementary in Fairfax County,
Va., “fell in love” with teaching when she realized the best part of her day was volun-

 

 

THE Cc ot ON NA OCE

 

 

have no concept of how exhausting it is. | now have so much more respect for my
professors and have a much better understanding and appreciation of the kind

ag of effort they put in to preparing their

"| now have so much more lectures.”

pa ae

ee

respect for my professors and So with all the negatives associated

have a much better understand-

ss ISERAR TIE ARORA ALO HNN

a

with teaching—long hours, little respect,
ing and appreciation of the kind ) low pay—what’s the reward? “Children are

of effort they put in to so refreshing to be around,” explained

 

preparing their lectures.” || Lynn, who taught first grade at Central
—I]I,AUREN BURROW 03 } Elementary School. ~ Lhey see the world
a

differently than the rest of us and always
have an interesting perspective on life. I love seeing them get excited about what
they are learning and watching them gain confidence from mastering a task, like
reading, that they have struggled with.”

Partlett, from her vantage point, has seen a similar blossoming among the four
student teachers and is proud of their accomplishments. “Teaching 1s a calling that
I hope more of our students will follow,” she said, “but it can also be very lonely
when you’re by yourself in front of a class.” But, as her teacher education program
proves, with the right combination of training, mentoring and encouragement,
there’s no reason to leave any teacher behind.

—Loutse Uffelman

1a oul

hapter house t

 

INEWISTORIES
jrott Welle SOUTS

ff

   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

Shenandoah and Editor Smith
Show Them How Its Done

 

Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee 1
University Review will have poems and |
short stories included in two presti- |
gious anthologies, and its editor, RT.
Smith, has found his own way into one 1
of the publications. |

‘The Pushcart Prize issues a book '
every year showcasing its choices for |
the best poetry, short fiction and essays j
published by small presses and literary 1
magazines. Its newest volume will
include reprints of two poems, “Little 1
Text,” by Betty Adcock i
“Aubade,” by Eugene Gloria, both
of which Shenandoah published first j
last year. {
Smith, an award-winning poet, will q
rub shoulders with Adcock and Gloria j
in the Pushcart anthology with his q
poem “Queen City, Skins,” which orig- 1
inally appeared in The Southern Revte®. —

Paralleling their poetic cousins afe
two short stories that appear in New
Stories from the South: The Years Best,
2003. The Shenandoah pieces are “Cool
Wedding,” by Latha Viswanathan, and
“Rich People,” by Lucy Corin. ‘This
well-regarded series, _ edited by
Shannon Ravenel and published by
Algonquin Books, of Chapel Hill, N.C
showcases the best short fiction b
Southern writers as published in
approximately 100 American period!
cals each year.

__ Ruth Intreé

 

43h 3 ata and fc, WA Ab NA

Ie AG Av sZ. 1 ne

 

 

Gone With the Wind:

Troubadour Cinema building, on the corner of S.

nd Henry Streets, has seen quite a bit of history dur-
50 years: the Civil War, the growth of Lexington and
h of the W&L theater department. It has shown
movies and plays to the residents of the campus
n. But as of May 3, 2003, the building screened
the Washington and Lee Film Society’s last picture show in
that location. Like the W&L bookstore, the cinema has
moved to the new John W. Elrod University Commons.
The University took over the building in 1935 after its
stint as a shoemaker's shop. It gained a new life as a shop to
build scenery for the students’ extracurricular plays and
s. At the time, the plays were actually performed in a

The
Main a
ing its |
the birt

numerous
and the tow

show
theater on Nelson Street.
After 1965, the theater department made its home in the

brick structure, then called the Henry Street Playhouse. “The
theater was a main attraction for my husband and me when we
were finding a place to live,” said Sarah Deacon, a 20-year res-
ident of Rockbridge County. “Knowing that my children could
grow up with regular theater was one of Lexington’s main sell-
ing points.” When the Lenfest Center for Performing Arts
opened in 1991, the theater department relocated there.

W&L renovated the space, the film society took it over
and it became the well-known cinema of the last decade. It
showed art-house and foreign films that didn’t make it to the
State ‘Theater, which offers more popular fare. It also housed
offices for some sororities and for Shenandoah: The Washington
and Lee Unwersity Review.

‘The new venue in the Commons boasts 189 seats, more
than the ‘Troubadour, and is fully handicapped accessible. The
Shenandoah staff is also departing the Troubadour, for new
offices in Mattingly House. The Theater at Lime Kiln plans to
lease the Troubadour building for its offices and new year-
round productions.

For regulars like Alexia Smith, a Lexington resident, their
love for the cinema will continue in the new venue. For the last
decade, she said, “the students have come out to the commu-
Mity” to see the Tioubadour’s
cinematic offerings. “Now
We'll go to the campus.”
—Amanda Hall

 
 
 
 

 

  

 

THE eo eet gee o Ue | Gee ad ek

 

Ceology majors—lace up your boots
and hike to Lexington for the
Geology Department Reunion, Oct.
24-25, 2003. Among the events will
be a retirement party for Fred
Schwab. For more information, con-
tact Deborah Hubbard, the depart-
mental secretary, at (540) 458-8800, or
visit http://geology.wlu.edu/Geology_
Department_REUNION.htm. ¢

 

CHINESE EXPORT PORCELAIN

in the Reeves Center Collection
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Thomas V.
Litzenburg Jr.

in collaboration with
Ann T. Bailey

CHINESE EXPORT PORCELAIN

in the Reeves Center Collection

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

With a Preface by
David S. Howard

he Reeves Center

Collection of Chinese

Export porcelain is
built around the more than
1,800 pieces given to the
University by Mr. and Mrs.
Euchlin D. Reeves.

Spanning three cen-
turies of the China trade,
the collection includes ser-
vices owned by or associat-
ed with George Washington and Robert E. Lee. Color plates of more
than 280 objects from the collection are included in this catalog.

 

 

See p. 35 for an article about the collection
and the book and the people behind them.

 

 

(Please clip this form and enclose with your order.)

Send copy (copies) of Chinese Export Porcelain in the Reeves Center
Collection at Washington and Lee University to:

 

 

 

Name

Address (please print)
(please print)

Phone Number:

 

Price per copy—$70 plus $3.10 for postage (book rate). Please allow two to three
weeks for delivery.

Enclose check in the amount of made payable to the “Reeves
Center.” Mail check and order form to: Reeves Center, Washington and Lee

University, Lexington, Va. 24450. Questions? Please call (540) 458-8744.

 

 

 

y °
WoW ELA & obo & and

oe ee

Mi A Se AZ tee Ss

‘The Washington and Lee
athletics program had a ban-
ner year in 2002-2003. ‘The
Generals claimed six Old
Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence (ODAC) Champion-
ships, and our 23 varsity
sports teams posted a 190-
114-5 (.626) overall record. In
addition, W&L captured the
ODAC Commissioner’s Cup
for overall excellence for the
seventh time in the nine
years that ODAC has given
the award.

‘The list of accomplish-
ments stretches longer than
the bridge to the athletic
fields. Five teams—volley-
ball, women’s soccer, wom-
en’s lacrosse, men’s tennis
and women’s tennis—quali-
fied for the NCAA tourna-
ments. Six teams were
nationally ranked, while two
others received votes for the
national polls. Six sports set
school-record win totals.

Individual athletes ex-
celled on the playing fields
and in the classroom. First
‘Team AIl-ODAC honors
went to 48 athletes, with
five earning ODAC Player
of the Year daurcis. WEL.

bestowed the Scholar-Athlete Award on 146 students for term

 

GENERALS?’ REPORT

GAME, SET, MATCH: ERIKA PROKO ’03 WON A $6,900
SCHOLARSHIP FROM THE NCAA POSTGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP
COMMITTEE. SHE CAN USE IT IN ANY POSTGRAD PROGRAM
SHE ENROLLS IN DURING THE NEXT THREE YEARS.

 

Athletes Make

WL Shine

In 2002 - 2003

GPAs of 3.500 or higher during the fall or winter terms. Two

athletes earned Verizon Academic All-America honors, raising
W&Ls total to 30 Academic All-Americans over the last 22
years. ODAC named seven W&L coaches Coach of the Year,
while two were selected the Virginia College Division Coach

of the Year.

‘The list could go on. Instead, here is a
sampling of team and individual highlights:

BASEBALL: W&L completed the 2003 sea-
son with a school-record 28 wins against just
eight losses. The Generals finished the reg-
ular season ranked second in the ODAC (15-
3) and advanced to the ODAC ‘Tournament
Championship games before bowing to
Virginia Wesleyan. Six players earned First

WcéL captured the
ODAC Commissioner’s
Cup for overall excel-
lence for the seventh
time in the nine years
that ODAC has given

the award.

ation National Academic ‘Team.

FOOTBALL: The Generals finished with a 5-5 overall record, 3-3
in ODAC, among many accomplishments. Running back Chris
Sullivan ’03 was a finalist for the Gagliardi Trophy, an award pre
sented to Division III’s outstanding player. He also earned
Virginia College Division Player of the Year honors after setting
new school records in career rushing yards
(3,140) and career all-purpose yards (5,931).
Offensive lineman John Melillo ’03 was named
a First Team Verizon Academic All-America?
and received the prestigious NCAA Postgradu-
ate Scholarship.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE: W&L began the se
with an 8-4 loss to St. Mary’s (Md.) on Mate
but didn’t fall again until Division I runnerup

    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   

Team AILODAC ho
led by shortstop Mj
Hanson ’03, who
named Player of the Year
A Third Team
America selection, Hanson
signed a free-agent con-
tract with the Atlanta
Braves one day after grad.
uation and played with the
Braves’ Single A franchise
in Danville, Va., over the
summer. Pitcher Peter
Dean ’04 upped his Career
record to 20-5 with an 8.2
record in 2003 and earned
Second ‘Team _ Verizon
Academic All-America

Nors,
Chae]
Was

honors.

FIELD HOCKEY: Head
coach Wendy Orrison led
the Generals to their first
winning season in just the
second full varsity cam-
paign. W&L finished with
a 10-9 overall record and
advanced to the ODAC
‘Tournament semifinals.
Kitt Murphy ’05 garnered
All-ODAC, All-State and
All-Region accolades and
joined seven other Gen- ~
erals on the National Field
Hockey Coaches Associ-

ason
h2

 

 

 

a

ngwood defeated us on May 3
: av stretch, the Generals

ing together 15 consecutive wins (a
rubs 5

) and won the ODAC
ampionship. W&L finished the sea-
a ,ool-record 15-3 slate and

son with a scl =
dvanced to the NCAA ‘Tournament,
advé

where we fell to Mary Washington ( ee)
in the second round. Sarah Janowitz ’03
-4mned ODAC Player of the Year and
Second ‘Team All-America honors, wane
Leslie Bogart 03 ted Lisa Dowling
Costello °93 for the school’s career-scor-

ing record (230 pts.).

Lo
During the 62-d
st
school record

 

WOMEN’S SOCCER: ‘This team also pro-
duced a lengthy stretch of days without a
loss. It fell to Virginia Wesleyan in the
season opener on Sept. 7 but won every-
thing else until succumbing to
University of Texas-Dallas on Nov. 16 in the NCAA South
Region Semifinals, a streak of 20 winning games that spanned 70
davs. The Generals completed the season with a school-record
17 wins, two losses and three ties. ‘They included in that total a
victory over Lynchburg College in the ODAC ‘Tournament
Championship, our first title in a women’s soccer tournament.
ODAC named Gina Von Sternberg ’06 the Rookie of the Year.

WOMEN’S TENNIS: [he Generals won a school-record 24
matches against just two losses and finished as the NCAA

 

The Generals welcomed three coaches to head positions —

over the summer. |
Kris Hoey talces over as head women’s cross country coach,
associate head coach of track and field and assistant professor of

physical education. She previously served as the interim head

Oss country and track and field coach and assistant coach at

There she helped mentor one All-American, three Academic

All-Americans, two national qualifiers, four conference champi-_

ens and 22 all-conference athletes. Her cross country teams
Were named to the National All-Academic team. o
The new head coach of men’s basketball is Adam
Hutchinson. He Spent the past two seasons as the head coach
E Case Western Reserve University, in Ohio. He led the
os to a 14-36 overall record while rebuilding the pro-
-. a recruiting class included eight players, most
_.. on Oren, the 2003 University Athletic
lation Rookie of the Year. Hutchinson began his coach-

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

NEWCOMERS JOIN THE GENERALS’

 

A new graduate one minute, a free
agent the next, Michael Hanson '03
was named to the Appalachian
League All-Star Team after his first
season with the Atlanta Braves’ fran-
chise in Danville, Va.

 

Division III runner-up. Our only losses
came at the hands of Emory
University, including a 5-1 defeat in
the national championship. Erika
Proko ’03 and Lindsay Hagerman ’05
made up the number-one doubles
team in the country. Both earned All-
America honors in singles and doubles
during the season. Proko, who was the
ODAC Player of the Year, also earned
the Intercollegiate ‘Tennis Associ-
ation’s National Arthur Ashe Sports-
manship Award and ODAC’s Marjorie
Berkley Award for female scholar-athlete of the year.

VOLLEYBALL: ‘lhe volleyball team capped its season record
with a school-record 32 wins against eight losses. ‘The Generals
won their second straight ODAC Championship and advanced
to the NCAA South Region Semifinals before bowing to
‘Trinity (Lexas), 3-0. Michelle Chastain ’05 set a school record
for kills in a season (475) en route to earning First ‘Team All-
ODAC honors. Susan Gaillard 06 garnered ODAC Rookie of
the Year accolades.

   

COACHING STAFF

ing career as an assistant coach at his alma mater, Amherst _

College. There he recruited the school’s second all-time lead-

ing scorer, All-American Jamal Wilson, and helped lead the
team to the NCAA Division IIT Elite Fight. In 1996, he played
and coached with the Cardiff Clippers of the English National

sistant ¢ _ Basketball League before spending two seasons as an assistant
West Chester University, Pa., of which she is a 1998 graduate.

coach at Emory University. He also holds an M.S. in sport
management from the University of Massachusetts-Amherst.
Chris Schall is the new director of the fitness center
and strength coach. He comes to W&L following four
years as a teacher of physical education and mathematics
and strength and conditioning coach at the Steward
School, in Richmond. Schall has also worked as a health
education instructor and an exercise specialist. A 1989.
graduate of SUNY-Fredonia, Schall earned his M.A. in
exercise physiology from the University of Virginia in
1993. While there, he served as the graduate assistant
strength and conditioning coach. +

 

é, > 2
Washington Kadc Lav .t ome Mia @ EE. 4s ft

<a

part of the larger University

 

‘The Law Council of the Washington and Lee School of Law
governs the Law Alumni Association. But that description just
scratches the surface. he council has come to be an influential
voice on behalf of W&L’s 4,700 law alumni and a wise counselor
to Law School administrators, an important link between the
Law School and the University’s Board of ‘Irustees and a
provider of assistance and encouragement to students and
faculty.

‘The council comprises 20 members who serve staggered
four-year terms and three Law Alumni Association officers who

The Law Gouncal

How It Serves W&L

Edited by Jim Raper

serve ex officio for one year. In addition, 15 emeritus members
serve additional four-year terms. Present members come from 15
states and Washington and are prominent attorneys, bankers,
investment specialists, government officials and one administrator
of a college.
“All universities are defined in part by the involvement and
said President ‘Thomas Burish.
“Washington and Lee is distin-

support of their alumni,”
"Despite its extraordinary guished among other top law
reputation in legal circles schools because of the uncom-
for professionalism and mon leadership it receives in this
civility, the Law School regard from the members of the
does not stand alone. It is Law Council, all of whom give
generously of their time, talent
community and is embraced and resources. “The Law School
by its traditions and has been made better in many
shares its values.” ways because of them.”

David Partlett, dean of the
“This law

school has benefited immeasurably from the devotion of the Law

—JaAMEs J. Keuiey II °74L

 

Law School, agrees.

Council over the years,” he said. “Its members bring perspectives
gathered from rich experience in practice, business and other insti-
tutions. ‘lhe Law Council has supported the Law School, and me
as dean, as we have met the formidable challenges of modern legal
education. At a personal level, | am grateful, as each of my prede-
cessors have been, for each member’s dedication and friendship.”

‘The council advises Partlett on admissions, curriculum, career
services, fund-raising and alumni relations. One primary service 1s
the collection and allocation of alumni dues. ‘The council meets
twice a year, typically at Alumni Reunion Weekend 1n May and at
Homecoming Weekend in October.

Law Council members past and present explain the workings
of the advisory body and tell why they volunteer their time and
talents to the University.

 

 

David P. Falck '78L, 2003-2004 counci
~ ner, Pillsbury Winthrop, New York C
“Members of the Law Council provic
Partlett and the faculty and staff about ho

can increase its visibility and maintain ts

the legal and business communities. O

_ W&L law students reap the benefits of
education. We also focus on furthering 1e
| gration with the University as a whole
| meetings with the Alumni Board and ot
constituencies. The Law Council will
selection of new leaders, the most rece
: “involvement i in the appointment of, D
never seems to bea shortage of alumni
- bership on the Law Council, which
he important role that W&L. has | P yi
many Law School alumni.” |

~ Lizanne Thomas’82L, 2001-200

| _ administrative partner, Jones. Day,
“One of my greatest delights i 1

a Council is to have had an opportu
. faculty members like Uncas McTI
Groot and Jim Phemister, without
oS would call on me! Uncas, in particul:
: “ative t use of MasterCard to fund my lega

due to that costly memory, I have foun

. the most meaningful undertakings of th

fund scholarships for deserving law:

_ would fall between the cracks. Iw h
| meer those law students, as council 1c
dents we’ve met through the years
also funny and thoughtful and am it
ae oe WELs alumni would supp

oh Hardin Marion ‘35, '5BL, 1990-1 9

emeritus member, Board of Trus ts
: partner, Tydings & Rosenberg, Bal |
_ “Serving on the Law Council, a nd

officer, gives members a broad view of
_ tration. This perspective was most usefi

on the University’ s Board of Trustees. I

the Law Council has been invited to
- meeting, to sit in on committee meetin
board on the activities of the law alu in

trustees learn more about the Law

Alumni Association, and the Law Cot
_ better appreciation of the responsibiliti

 

 

We eh ee to an d

BT ncumns

  

 

 

» James J. Kelley II "74L, 2002-2003 council president;
: partner, Morgan Lewis, Washington. |

“Gervice on the Law Council has been rewarding at many
levels. Over the past two years, the Law Count has funded
four new faculty fellowships, two for scholarship and two for
excellence in teaching, qualities that distinguish the learning
experience at the Law School. As president of the Law
Council, | have participated in the admission of W&L gradu-
jergraduate) to the United States Supreme

ates (law and under; s
Court, briefed the Board of Trustees on law alumnt issues and
served with Bill Wallace, president of the University Alumni
Association, on the Alumni Association Effectiveness Study.
This type of coordination cements University-Law School
relations. That is important to the Law School. Despite its
extraordinary reputation in legal circles for professionalism
and civility, the Law School does not stand alone. It is part of
the larger University community and is embraced by its tradi-

- 39
tions and shares its values.

* JohnA. Wolf’69, '72L, 1998-1999 council president; mem-
ber, Board of Trustees; president and managing direc-
tor, Ober/Kailer, Baltimore.

“The Law Council’s role has evolved over the past
decade from, principally, a fund-raising organization, which
continues, to a representative body providing an active voice
for law alumni in matters specific to law graduates. It has
been blessed with able leadership, which has provided real
value as an advisory group to the Law School administration.
Working with the University’s alumni, the council has main-
tained a good balance of differentiating and promoting the
attributes of the Law School, while also contributing to
University-wide alumni affairs. The result has been a far
more active law alumni and enhanced visibility nationally for
the Law School and its excellent programs.”

* William R. Goodell '8O0L, 1997-1998 council president;
member, Board of Trustees; president, Robertson
Foundation, New York City.

“ = + : 1
In addition to serving as a resource and sounding board

hree proud law alumni and an undergradu-
ate alumnus who now teaches at W&L join
their offspring, freshly graduated in May
from the Law School. Left to right: Robert L.
Kaufman °59L, with Joseph A. Kaufman ’03L; the
Hon. H. Emory Widener Jr. 53L with Molly B.
Widener ’03L; Theodore C. DeLaney Jr. ’85A
with Damien P Delaney ’03L; and Gregory W.
Smith 734A, °76L with Julie Smith Palmer ’03L. ¢

 

to the law dean over the years, the Law Council has been a
forceful advocate for the school’s interests on many fronts.
Examples that come to mind include formulating an institu-
tionalized process to ensure law representation on the
University’s Alumni Board, providing support for the cre-
ation and staffing of the Law School Relations office,
prompting enhanced coverage of the Law School in alumni
publications and fostering greater inclusion in reunion activ-
ities. Making the biannual trek to Lexington for Law
Council meetings entails a substantial commitment of time
and, frequently, resources as well, since many representa-
tives travel considerable distances at their own expense to
attend. I rarely left W&L after such a weekend, however,
without feeling enriched by the experience and by the inter-
action with the faculty, students, staff and alumni. In retro-
spect, we could have sold tickets to those Law Council fac-
ulty dinners when Dean Roy Steinheimer made post-retire-
ment appearances garbed in his splendiferous jackets!”

*  PamelaJ. White’77L, 1991-1992 council president; member,
Board of Trustees; partner, Ober/Kaler, Baltimore; presi-
dent, Maryland Bar Association, 2001-2002.

“I served on the Law Council when the Lewis Powell
addition was constructed and the Powell Archives were ded-
icated. ‘he council supported the Law faculty and the
University administration in celebrating Justice Powell’s
example of public service in the law and unyielding com-
mitment to honorable conduct. At that time, and especially
in the years before the Board of ‘Trustees created its formal
Law School Committee, the council and its president were
an important vehicle to communicate with the trustees
about legal education and the importance to the University
of improving and maintaining our Law School’s top-ranked
reputation. Even now, as I serve on the board, I know the
trustees continue to rely on the council president’s regular
reports. In this latter regard, I point out that I am the only
trustee who 1s a Law-only alumna, although the vast majori-
ty of our Law alumni have no undergraduate connection to
W&L—another important point about the role and com-
munications of the Council with the Board.”

 

 

é
Wha is hit We gh th 8 res = he mM we we OP Oe 8

 j-

 

 

 

These five alumni have suffered the loss of a loved one, watched their children face life-threatening nesses and Stared 1

down their own serious disease. It would be completely understandable if they stayed behind the scenes. They have chosen

instead to go public with their stories, which celebrate a spirit of survival and hope. By NEXNDY Lovey,

90

 

THE EMREYS RETRACE THE ROUTE OF THE GREAT STRIDES
WHICH PASSES NEAR LEE CHAPEL. LEFT TO RIGHT:

Dick Emrey’s roots in the Washington and Lee community
run deep. ‘The Lexington native grew up following Generals
football and basketball, graduated from the University in 1985
and built his career in the insurance business, with his office
less than a mile from campus.

While he’s always appreciated the benefits of small-town life,
Emrey and his wife, Karen, discovered the strength and support
of a close-knit community in 1997, when they learned their 6-
wecek-old son, Bryan, had cystic fibrosis (CF). “Karen’s nephew
has CF, but we didn’t know much about it until Bryan was diag-
nosed,” said Emrey. “It’s hard to explain how I felt when we
found out. You’re just numb. We went through a period of
denial and shock and then started to ask, ‘What do we do?’ ”

‘The Emreys began by learning everything they could
about the genetic disease, which affects about 30,000 children

WALK FOR CYSTIC FIBROSIS,
KAREN, CLAY, BRYAN AND DICK EMREY.

and adults in the United States. CF causes the body to pro-
duce abnormally thick mucus, which impairs the lungs and
pancreas and can eventually lead to infection and organ failure:
Currently there is no cure, but advances in treatment have
increased the median life expectancy to 33.

‘Treatment and therapy to help their son breathe easier are
a routine part of the day for the Emreys, who are committed
to making life for Bryan, now 6, and his older brother, Clay,
9, as normal as possible. They also are determined to achieve
another important goal. “Knowing there’s a chance that a cure
for CF may be found in Bryan’s lifetime, Karen and | wanted
to do everything in our power to help make that happen,» said
Emrey. “We started participating in Great Strides fundraise!
walks in surrounding cities and now coordinate an annual
walk here in town.”

 

    

2

a

  

mreys led the fourth annual

Strides event in Lexington. A little more
. les long, the walk begins at W&Ls
= Bs ition, crosses the campus of VMI,
down Lee and Jackson Avenues, con-
a a the Woods Creek ‘Trail and returns to
nects

che W&L campus.

“The support W
fellow church members and people at

as been fantastic,” said

In April, the F

e’ve received from friends,

family,
WL and VMI h
Emrey. W&L student groups such as the
- Chi Omega sorority and the Nabors

women's tennis team, | ,
eld their own fund-raisers for the Cystic

Service League have h | und-raise .
Fibrosis Foundation in addition to participating in Great Strides.
In May, a student-run charity ball in Evans Dining Hall benefit-
ed the foundation, too.

Just as important as the money they raise is the emotional
support from friends and family. “Knowing that we’re not alone
in our battle against Bryan's disease really makes a difference in
how we cope as parents,” said Emrey. “The support of the local
community, family and friends, as well as other CF families,
helps to lighten the burden for us.”

 

MIKE WyaTT AND HIS WIFE, PIPER, HAVE RUN
SEVERAL MARATHONS TOGETHER BEFORE AND
AFTER THE CREATION OF TEAM NUTS.

 

Mike Wyatt °84 would agree about the importance of friends
pc family. His testicular cancer was no laughing matter, but he
discovered that a sense of humor certainly makes it easier to
_ the subject. A nine-year cancer survivor, Wyatt is a
a - ‘Team eats, a Dallas-based marathon-
a c O Survivors of testicular and prostate cancer and
Ri, — raised nearly $100,000 for the Lance Arm-
-_ < ation. ‘l"he famed cyclist, a five-time winner of the

0
ur de France, founded the organization 1n 1997 following his

“The support we've

received from friends,

family, fellow church

members and people

at W&L and VMI has

 

been fantastic.”

own successful treatment for testicular cancer.
Wyatt and another testicular cancer survivor,
John Briggs, started ‘Team Nuts in 2001 to spread
awareness about the disease. ‘he group has
grown to about 150 athletes who run individually
or in five- and two-person teams in Dallas’ White
Rock Marathon each December. Dwight Eman-
uelson ’84 and Chris Busbee ’85 were two of the
club’s participants in last year’s event. ‘leam Nuts
supporters also race in Fort Worth, Houston,
. Austin and San Antonio, as well as in marathons
throughout the country. ‘The group’s name and logo—two
walnuts—ease tensions when talking about a disease some
find uncomfortable to discuss. With names like Doughnuts,
Mixed Nuts, Hot Nuts, Nutty Buddies, Nut ’n’ Honey (a coed
team) and the Nutcrackers (an all-women team), the runners
attract a lot of attention for their cause—and that’s the point.

“Our goal for starting “Team Nuts was as much about raising
awareness as it was about raising money,” Wyatt explained.
“*Team’ stands for “ lesticular Educational Awareness for Men, and
if people understand what this is all about, not only will they know
how to do self-exams but also about the need for storing sperm.”

Wyatt’s own bout with cancer began in 1994, when he
noticed that one testicle had nearly doubled in size and felt
heavier than normal. When the symptoms hadn’t abated two
weeks later, he sought medical help. Within 24 hours of the
diagnosis, he had surgery.

“In addition to being terrified about what was happening to
me, I realized there really wasn’t a lot of information out there
on testicular cancer,” said Wyatt, adding that it strikes men pri-
marily ages 18 to 35. “It’s one of the most treatable forms of can-
cer, but very little is said about it because it is such a personal
thing for younger men.”

Having run a marathon in 1988, he set a goal of running more
races and eventually came up with the idea of ‘Team Nuts as a
way to foster healing for other men with testicular cancer. In
1998, Wyatt met with Lance Armstrong and a group from his
foundation. ‘They thought ‘Team Nuts fit in nicely with the
foundation’s mission and gave Armstrong’s endorsement.

As word of ‘Team Nuts began to spread, Wyatt and co-
founder Briggs realized that another group was a logical addition
to the team. “Ihe more men we talked to, the more we realized
we needed to talk about prostate cancer, too,” said Wyatt.
“Tronically, one of the White Rock Marathon organizers who
supported ‘Team Nuts through free advertising became one of
our heroes. ‘hanks to our organization, he was better prepared
to deal with his diagnosis of prostate cancer.”

From the number of e-mails and calls he has recetved from
other men with testicular and prostate cancer, Wyatt thinks
‘Team Nuts is achieving its goal. “The price of ignorance about
this disease can be high, and that’s part of why I’m doing this,”
he said. “Every race I run and every time I talk about this to peo-
ple, I continue to cure myself.”

eel OS OS O fmm

 

Washington

and

fice BE Aoi ie oe

INAS a VG VASE, de AINE AE

FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: IRVIN, MYLES, JILLIAN,
AND JESSICA PASLEY; MATT LAUER, “TODAY SHOW”
CO-HOST; AND DR. NANCY A. KERNAN, ASSISTANT CHIEF
OF MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING’S BONE MARROW
TRANSPLANT SERVICE. THE DAY OF JESSICA AND

JILLIAN’S APPEARANCE ON THE “TODAY SHOW,”

MORE THAN 1,500 PEOPLE CALLED THE
NATIONAL MARROW DONOR PROGRAM.

 

Jessica Reynolds Pasley ’89 knows how to talk to people.
Despite her five-year stint as a medical reporter for the Nashville
Banner, though, she didn’t know much about leukemia or the
need for minority bone-marrow donors. Now she 1s no longer an
interviewer, as she was during her newspaper days, but a spokes-
person for the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) in her
drive to educate potential donors on how greatly they are needed.

Pasley and her husband, Irvin, faced the need for marrow
donors firsthand in 1999, when their 1-year-old twin daughters,
Jillian and Jade, were diagnosed with leukemia within six
months of each other. With no matching donors in their families,
the Pasleys, who also have a son, Myles, 8, turned to the NMDP
Registry. Jade received a bone-marrow transplant in 2000 but
died four months later. Jillian, who received a transplant from a
different donor in July 2002, is thriving at age 5.

“While Jade didn’t make it, we are so grateful to the young
woman who was her donor,” said Pasley, who is now the public
information officer for Vanderbilt University Medical Center.
“The transplant was successful in that Jade made it to her second
birthday, and we shared another Christmas with her.” ‘They don’t
know the donor’s identity, but they do know
she is a twin too.

“For a mom who’s wanting to save her
child and to help others who need a trans-
plant, the numbers were devastating,” con-
tinued Pasley. “I had no idea minority
donors are so needed. ‘here’s money there
for minorities to register at no cost, but many
don’t know the opportunities exist or that
they are needed as donors in the first place.”

For patients suffering from leukemia,
aplastic anemia or other life-threatening

and-do-nothing eae ea
art Pasley. “Part of our
: acre: is making people

Cr Mitek: they can tll ie

Yo h'd-y ce ht ee

 

blood diseases, sometimes the only chance for Survival is a
Tans-

The Procedure —
d patient match,
best chance for q
ost likely Match js

plant of bone marrow or blood stem cells,

  
   

requires that certain tissue traits of the donor an
Because these traits are inherited, a patient’s
match is another family member. ‘Vhe next m
a donor from the same racial or ethnic group. |

A frustrated Pasley contacted the NMDP to find out why the
organization wasn’t doing more to educate minorities and the .
public at large on this great need. Its response was a request for |
her help as a spokesperson. ‘l/his spring, Pasley debuted in thal |
role for the NMDP when she spoke to the National Conference —
of Black Mayors and Black Women’s Caucus at their annual _
meetings in Houston.

“It was hard to figure out what message to send to these |
groups, but I’m glad to have had the opportunity. My goal is to
reach the African-American population and all minorities, | fee]
like if I’m doing my job, maybe some of what we've been
through 1s not all for naught.”

In May, Pasley and Jillian appeared on NBC’s “Today Show”
and spoke with co-host Matt Lauer about the NMDP’s push for
minority donors. By the end of the day, the NMDP had received
more than 1,500 calls. It was Pasley’s first opportunity to spread
the message to a national audience—but not, she hopes, her last,
for she wants to appear one day on the “Oprah Winfrey Show,”

“I believe in my heart, and have for some time, that Oprah is
the vehicle, the voice,” said Pasley. “She has the power to posi-
tively influence so many people. Like a friend said, “When she
touches something, it’s gold.’ ”

Until that opportunity arises, Pasley continues to speak on
behalf of the NMDP. For the past four years, she’s been a mem-
ber of the board of the ‘Tennessee chapter of the Leukemia &
Lymphoma Society. She represents that group at many speaking
engagements and, along with her family, participates in local
events and fund-raisers.

“?’m not a very good sit-by-and-do-nothing person,” said
Pasley. “Part of our quest is making people aware that they can
help save a life. There probably is a donor for everyone who
needs a transplant, we’ve just got to help find them.”

a O/ O/ 9

As a public relations executive, Joe Slay °72 makes a living by
raising awareness. When he started in the business, he never
dreamed one of his clients would be his
own son. Twenty years later, the head of
Richmond-based SLAY Public Relations
cites Andrew’s Buddies as one of his most
important accounts.

Slay’s son Andrew, who is now 17 yous
old, was diagnosed at 14 months with spinal
muscular atrophy (SMA), a neuromusculat
disorder that attacks nerve cells in the
spinal cord and brain stem, causing muscles
to waste away. The leading geneuc killer of
children under 2, the disease takes away

 

W wech @ © gt ww a and

 

  
  
 

THE SLAYS AND FOOTBALLER HOWIE LONG, NATIONAL
HONORARY CHAIRMAN OF ANDREW’S BUDDIES, MAKE
THEIR PITCH (OR PASS, AS IT WERE) TO SEN. GEORGE >
ALLEN OF VIRGINIA. BACK, LEFT TO RIGHT: JOE,
MARTHA AND PATRICK SLAY; FRONT, LEFT TO RIGHT:
LONG, ANDREW SLAY AND SEN. ALLEN.

    
     
    

muscle control and strength, leading to a progressive inability to
walk, stand up and even breathe.
Slay and his wife, Martha, organized Andrew’s Buddies in 1991.
They have another son, Patrick, now 14, and a daughter, Megan,
8. In its initial fund-raising campaign, the organization set a goal
of $100,000. Last year, it awarded more than $1.3 million in
grants to support research aimed at a treatment for SMA.

“My background in PR led me at least in part to fight
Andrew’s disease in this way,” said Slay. “When something like
this happens, you react with the tools that you have. Creating
an organization and having a core group of family, friends and
volunteers keeps you propped up.”

Between Slay’s public relations savvy and his wife’s determi-
nation and dedication, Andrew’s Buddies has become a strong
presence in the SMA community. His firm has served the orga-
| nization on a pro bono basis since its inception, and there are

now 12 Andrew’s Buddies chapters in the United States.

It has enjoyed additional exposure through the support of
former football player Howie Long, a NFL Hall of Famer and
media personality. Long heard about the Slays and Andrew’s
Buddies two years ago through a mutual acquaintance. As a
father of three sons and a resident of Virginia, he
thought it was an ideal cause to join and willingly
- on board as its national honorary chairman.
| Howie’s involvement with Andrew’s Buddies
_ a pre things that doesn’t happen too
. ; e 4 He is part of a longer-term strat-
a % . er of SMA-related organizations are
a. * more awareness, support and fund-
| ederal level to SMA research.”

% — s summer, Long and the Slays visit-
ill to thank senators and members of

  

“The only thing

holding us back

from curing some
of these diseases is

time and money.”

 

Congress for their support for increasing SMA research and to
encourage them to stay in the fight. Slay was particularly excit-
ed about an interview Long had on CNN’s “Wolf Blitzer
Reports,” which aired nationally later that day.

“Washington has really become the focal point for us,”
added Slay. “We’re hoping to get federal funding for SMA
research elevated from $5 million to $25 million. It would really
close the gap for us, and it could lead to an early win.”

Slay isn’t alone in the hope for increased funding. In a recent
letter to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), leading scientists
and clinicians from around the world urged the NIH to increase
funding from its current amount of $5 million. They estimate
that with NIH funding of $20 to $30 million a year, an effective
therapy for SMA could be achieved in three to five years.

Slay has set his sights on an increase in SMA funding during
the next appropriations year. If that doesn’t happen, Andrew’s
Buddies will keep knocking on Washington’s doors until it does.

Fund-raising keeps Guy Caldwell ’86 at work in the lab and the
classroom. One of the tools the assistant professor of biological
sciences uses with his students at the University of Alabama is a
small vial with a faded label from his days as an undergraduate
student at Washington and Lee. It’s a sample of DNA—perhaps
one of the first used in a molecular biology experiment here—
and a symbol of what makes this professor and researcher tick.

“Since I first heard the words ‘recombinant DNA’ in an
undergraduate genetics lecture, I’ve been fascinated by molec-
ular biology,” said Caldwell. “I can’t imagine anything better in
life than what I do. My wife and I get to spend every day togeth-
er, having fun and sharing our work.”

Caldwell met his wife, Kim Caldwell, now an adjunct pro-
fessor of biological sciences at UA, while in graduate school at
the University of ‘Tennessee. During that time, his mother
developed a neurological dementia, an illness that piqued his
interest in neurological diseases. He chose Columbia University
for his postdoctorate work so he could be close to his mother,
and because it was a good place to pursue his professional interests.

“T saw that the next frontier was the nervous system,” said
Caldwell. “I was looking for ways to take my experience and
apply it to this complex of neurological diseases. Columbia
gave me the opportunity.”

Many diseases of the nervous system involve aggregates, or
clumps, of protein forming in our cells, explained
Caldwell. Proteins must fold properly within cells
to function correctly. When this doesn’t happen,
clumping occurs, which can lead to neuron mal-
function or cell death.

While at Columbia, Caldwell became
intrigued with a transparent microscopic worm
known as C. elegans. Approximately 50 percent of
all human hereditary diseases have been linked
to genetic components found in C. elegans,
as well as the typical hallmarks of the human

 

Washington and

—

fen BE #0 Moet

Mem GS AYZ he ws

|
|
|

 

THE COUPLE THAT RESEARCHES TOGETHER,
STAYS TOGETHER: KIM AND GUY CALDWELL PURSUE
THEIR WORK ON NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA.

nervous system. ‘lherefore, Caldwell thought it would be a good
tool to study the gene that causes dystonia, a neurological move-
ment disorder. Columbia wasn’t interested in his idea, but the
University of Alabama was. Caldwell has tested his theory there
since 1999, as well as served as an assistant professor in the
department of biological sciences.

‘The move has been a good one. ‘The university has support-
ed Caldwell’s research and given him the opportunity to teach.
He’s been successful at both and recently received the 2003
Career Award, the National Science Foundation’s most presti-
gious honor for junior faculty.

As a result of Caldwell’s research, the university has a patent
pending on the discovery of a protein typically coded with
human DNA that can suppress the potentially harmful clump-
ing of other proteins. Caldwell hopes that by patenting this dis-
covery, further research will lead to a drug that can benefit
patients with dystonia, Parkinson’s disease, spinal muscular atro-
phy and other neurological disorders.

“What we’re hoping to come up with 1s a ‘molecular Drano’
for various types of clogs,” said Caldwell. “If we can prevent
these clogs from happening, we can cure these neurological dis-
eases or prevent the damage they cause.”

An article on his research appeared in Caldwell’s home-
town newspaper in New Jersey and initiated a reunion with
one of his high school friends—who carries the dystonia gene.
While the friend does not have the ailment, his friend’s niece
has the most severe form, one that Caldwell researches in his
lab. “How ironic that dystonia brought us together years
later,” said Caldwell. “My friend’s family works to raise
money for dystonia research, and I’ve been a part of their
efforts to meet with families to share information.”

Caldwell’s work has attracted a great deal of attention
beyond his hometown and his academic institution. He’s

  
   
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

received grants from the March of Dimes, National Institutes
Health, the Dystonia Medical Research Foundation, Ameri
Parkinson Disease Association, Parkinson’s Disease Foundatj
and the National Parkinson Foundation. In January, the Michael j
Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research selected Caldwe 3
lab as one of 11 worldwide to represent the research goals of
Protein Degradation Program. His project will receive $145 (
in funding over a two-year period.

“Grants like this one help make a difference in what we
as researchers,” said Caldwell. “It’s important for scientists
people have an understanding of how little is spent on reses
‘The only thing holding us back from curing some of these ¢
eases Is time and money.”

el OS OS Om

Nothing seems to hold back these alumni. They are pouri
their energy, smarts and resources into finding cures for diseas
that affect not only them and their loved ones but people allo
the world. Rather than giving in, they are fighting back, ¢

For more information about the to

0 oe Oe 8 6 ee 8 ee ee 8 Me le a ee 8 8 ee ee ee 8 8. We Ceo we, Be ee a: woe eee ee ee

American Cancer Society
www.cancer.org
Andrew’s Buddies
www.fightsma.com

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
www.cff.org

Dystonia Medical Research Foundation
www.dystonia-foundation.org

Families of Spinal Muscular Atrophy
www.fsma.org

Lance Armstrong Foundation
www.laf.org

Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Rese<
www.michaeljfox.org

National Marrow Donor Program
www.marrow.org

«6:3: =
Po eee ee ee ee ee ee

Relay for Life
www.relayforlife.org
‘Team Nuts
www.teamnuts.org

a=
28) See
Se 8 8 Ce a 6 8 8 Re Re he C8 ss Cet te 8 8 8 8 ke 8 8 ee ee = =

 

Washington ann jd

 

   

4
:

el

t Tom Burish’s first brush with cancer on a profes-
| level came 1n the mid-1970s. After earning bachelor’s and
a os degrees in psychology, he aa: oe as an atern in the
ment of Psychiatry and Children’s Rehabilitation Unit at
rAncas University Medical Center. His mentor was a pediatric
Si ist, and some of the young patients were dying of
a a When the center offered
E a full-time position, he declined.
d working with terminally ill
children just too difficult.
After completing his Ph.D. in clini-
psychology, Burish moved on to a
position at Vanderbilt Univer-
focused his research on the

Presiden
sion
maaste
Depart

leu Anothe
Buris

He foun

cal
reaching
sity and
psychophysiological effects of stress.

Before long, his interests returned to
cancer when, at the suggestion of a col-
league, he began to examine how stress
affected cancer patients and how to
prevent stress-related problems.

The National Cancer Institute (NCD),
the federal government’s principal
agency for cancer research and training,
funded his research for several years.
Burish’s work explored the prevention
and treatment of many of the side
effects of chemotherapy; the psycho-
logical factors associated with cancer
incidence and mortality; and how best
to prepare patients and their families to
deal with cancer and its treatment.

“We really were in the right place at
the right time,” said Burish of the
research he did through the NCI grant.
“The work became exceptionally
rewarding, and we were able to
improve the quality of life of so many people.” His efforts have
attracted the attention of many organizations committed to
preventing, treating and eliminating cancer. He has led many
Committees, served on advisory boards and panels, authored
publications and been honored for his expertise.

Of all his involvements, the organization he cares the most
about is the American Cancer Society. ‘he organization strives

to Prevent cancer, save lives and diminish suffering from can-
“ef, Says its Web site. To meet those goals, the ACS conducts
= Provides information, is involved in advocacy and pub-
oe sponsors community programs. Burish is =
man of the national board of directors and most like-

ly wij
a Setve as chairman in the near future.
From cancer

lie prevention, to helping patients and their fam-
S

de a ; i

e 3 with the disease and its treatment, to advancing sci-
et a

a € American Cancer Society does so many wonderful

S : 3 . ~ : "

88 at a grassroots level,” said Burish. “One of the things it

does
tha a. + , 4s
t I think is so critical is to focus on providing new

ad

 

PRESIDENT TOM BURISH BRACES
HIMSELF FOR A WHIPPED-CREAM “PIE”
PREPARED BY KENNETH SWINK, OF THE
PHYSICAL PLANT. VISHAL SAPRA ’O6
(NOT PICTURED) DID THE HONORS.

researchers with their first research grants, thereby helping them
to launch their careers in the field. In the last 10 years, we’ve
awarded $100 million a year in grants to young investigators.”
Burish thinks another promising movement is the National
Dialogue on Cancer. Initiated by the ACS and co-chaired by for-
mer President George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush, the NDC
is a forum to improve the collaboration

¢ = ? | =) t ty
Pe | ¢ i eC "I @ ]
oo ae ae bd f i

among public, private and nonprofit
sectors in the areas of cancer research
and control.

“The National Dialogue on Cancer
is young but growing,” said Burish,
who’s been involved since its incep-
tion several years ago. “It has success-
fully brought together members from
government agencies, for-profit com-
panies and the non-profit world who
are all united by their work in the
cancer area. It has the potential to
harness and focus resources in a way
that could have an enormous impact
on cancer incidence and mortality in
this country. ‘here is no other organi-
zation like it.”

Burish is eager to get involved in the
local chapter of the ACS, which has
benefited greatly from the volunteer
efforts of the staff of Washington and
Lee’s Physical Plant. In a brave move,
on April 1 he became a target in the
plant’s annual Dr. John Elrod Mock
Pie In the Face Auction.

 

In addition to the popular event,
which raised $2,850 this year, the staff
of the Physical Plant has put together
a cookbook and held yard sales, bake
sales, dances, softball tournaments and the Relay for Life, a 24-
hour marathon of walking that involves the entire Rockbridge
County community. Last spring, W&Ls relay team contributed
nearly $14,000, raising the University’s total donations to the
ACS over the past seven years to more than $70,000.

Overall, the study and treatment of cancer have changed
greatly since Burish began his work in the field 20 years ago.
“When I was an intern, children with leukemia died from the
disease,” he remembers. “Today there are certain types of
leukemia that are very treatable.”

While his career has taken him away from hospitals and
laboratories and into boardrooms and classrooms, Burish still
has a hand in recent progress in the treatment of cancer.
“Resources are better today than they’ve ever been,” he said.
“Progress is more rapid, and the future has never been more
promising. ‘his is a most rewarding and exciting time to be
working in the cancer field.”

—Wendy Lovell ’90

 

VP aehsa @ eb s ana

fun Ge eke bom?

meh G&G wee le oe Se

a Oi east: Dip RX- hip Patan -ot >
R6 er ree Sin gex And ak weala os

Roger Day ’85 has been out of college for nearly 20 years, but
the guy just won’t grow up. He has a good reason to be a big
kid—he does it for a living. With a guitar in his hand and a grin
on his face, Day travels from elementary schools to libraries to
music festivals, performing his catchy brand of children’s music.

With fun, goofy songs like “It’s a No, No to Kiss a Rhino!,”
“Mosquito Burrito,” “Open Up the Coconut” and “Jump Up
and ‘Turn Around,” Day gets his listeners moving and their
imaginations revving. “This ain’t no time for napping / No, this
is time for finger snapping / So if you want this song to happen /
Let me see your toes start tapping!,” goes the first stanza of “My
Invisible Dinosaur,” which often gets a show off the ground.

“There’s a lot of creative freedom in writing music for
kids,” said Day, who preceded his days as a children’s musician
by playing the college coffeehouse circuit. “You can get away
with a lot of stuff, like saying ‘Visigoths’ (“Open Up the
Coconut”) or using the word ‘culinary’ in ‘Mosquito Burrito.’
One of my songs (‘Jump Up and ‘Turn Around’) even refers
to the “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.’ ” Looks like that
liberal arts education really paid off.

Day, based in Franklin, ‘Tenn., turned out his first children’s
album, “Rock ’n’ Roll Rodeo,” in 1997 and followed it with
“Ready to Fly” in 2001. ‘The second features backup vocals
by well-known folksingers: the Indigo Girls on the title song
and Nanci Griffith on “Parachute Girl.” It recerved a recom-
mendation from the Parents’ Choice Foundation in 2001
(“Roger Day knows how to tickle kids’ funny bones,” wrote the
reviewer) and was a Parenting magazine pick in 2002.

 

“My music has the summer camp vibe. It’s silly, interactive

fun, but it also appeals to adults. ‘Vhere are a lot of solo kids’
performers like me, such as Justin Roberts and Billy Jonas, whe
have the same reaction to Barney,” Day said, referring to
the human-size purple dinosaur, singing star of a children’s show
on PBS. “That’s not what I do.”

Day began to play music with a mission in high school. “I
began writing songs almost the moment I picked up the guitat,”
he said. “In about the ninth or 10th grade, I started writing
music as I was learning to play. I’m not sure why I wanted 0
write my own songs, but I enjoyed the creative process.”

During college, Day played to children for the first time as@
summer-camp counselor. His musical interests took a different
turn during the school year at W&L, where the German major
took theory and composition from Rob Stewart, former profes-
sor of music, and voice lessons from Gordon Spice, professor of
music. He also sang with the Glee Club and Southern Comfort.

“T was very involved in the music department at W&L.
More than anything else, my time with Southern Comfort
taught me a great deal about just getting in front of people and
making them laugh, smile and enjoy themselves,” said bay
“Of course, it also taught me that sometimes college seniors
are not the best arbiters of taste when it comes (0 choosing
songs to sing in front of the Board of Trustees.”

Day’s professional career took off when he played wit

0
low alumnus Eric Heinsohn ’83. As Heinsohn & Day, #6 ae
nities, colles®

he duo #

h fel-

toured full-time for three years playing frater
shows and coffeehouses. Day cites his time with ¢

 

 

Washington and

  

 

  

m able learnt xperience of his career
he most eeuavic learning exp .
t

d he looks forward to their annual reunion each May
€
an

nd.
feinsohn & Day taught me how to
how to react to their mood, how to

at Reunion We eeke

read an SS ience ,
their collective energy and create a show,” said
us

. B@There’s no way 4 classroom could have given
. shat kind of education. It only comes from night
me

fer night of playing, dragging your tired body off
a

ir fraternity D brother’s couch, getting back in the van
you
and doing it ga

Once he marric¢
ly, the children’s music naturally came back into play
\,

and now is the main _ focus of his career. ‘The Days have
three children: Thomas, 10, Marjorie, 8, and Jacob, 4.
Beyond ..
practical ee
Klimkosky, a ele:
Mass., met Day e1;

coffeehouse circuit
reaching curriculum to accompany his children’s music.

| his wife, Jodie, and started a fami-

entertainment, Day’s music has
yns in the classroom, too. Stacey
entary-school teacher in Cape Cod,
oht years ago when he was playing the
and later collaborated with him on a

“IT think what makes Roger’s music so special is Roger
himself,” she said, adding that she 1s as much a fan of his earlier
“adult” music as his children’s music. “When he sings, he 1s giv-
ing the audience— whether it’s one or 1,000—a part of himself.
His humor, caring, playfulness and love come through each
and every time. Plus, it’s just great fun.”

Klimkosky thinks good children’s music provides teachers
with a springboard for great learning experiences. “I buy chil-
dren’s music that can be used in the classroom,” she said. “It can
be totally silly, but there is some kind of message in the lyrics or
the topic that can be tied into a thematic unit that I’m teaching.”
Of vital importance, she adds, “It also has to be music that I can
listen to over and over again without screaming.”

Bruin Richardson ’86 agrees with Klimkosky that Day’s
music is as appealing to adults as it is to children, adding that
it passes the long-car-ride test with his whole family. “My
favorite Roger Day song is ‘Mosquito Burrito,’” said
Richardson’s 9-year-old daughter, Emma. “I like the words,
and I think it’s fun to listen to. I also think he really knows

how to be around kids because he’s a dad.”

GER DAY TURNS IT UP
9R AN ENTHUSIASTIC
AUDIENCE.

 

. Lk music cr nd Ss re

 

Day hopes some of the lyrics to his songs will stick with fans
like Emma Richardson when they grow up and beyond his music.
“Music can introduce educational concepts in a non-threatening
way,” he said. “I can just picture some high school kid taking a
biology exam and getting a question right because he remem-
bers from my lyrics that a snake has a three-chambered heart.”
As the verse from “Here Comes Mr. Snake” goes: “He’s the
cold-blooded creature / With the three-chambered heart /
Moving like a slinky / Through your backyard.”

Day has furthered his own education in the music business
with his latest project. In June, he taped a live show in his
hometown of Birmingham, Ala., that will be available on video
later this year. He plans to make the tape available for sale in
specialty toy stores and to pitch it for broadcast on PBS sta-
tions. It’s also a way to reinforce what he does on stage, which
is a large part of his appeal.

“Kids are more sophisticated these days and are thinking rock,”
said Day. “I could never ask an audience to just sit there and lis-
ten to me. I like to keep it moving and Keep everyone involved.
It makes for a very energy-draining show, but it’s worth it.”

Beyond his upcoming video, Day has set
his sights on an album of lullabies. He’s also
interested in a project that’s completely aimed
at preschoolers. “The great thing about this
business is that I can take it anywhere,” said
Day. “I’ve got new songs for future kids’ CDs,
and I’d love to do books based on some of the
characters in my songs. ‘The only limit to my
imagination is my bank account.”

With an imagination that can take young lis-
teners on a trip to Iimbuktu to learn to dance
the boogaloo, it looks like the sky is the limit
for Roger Day. 4

 

 

Was hei a got'@oor and

ALEX Cross ’°95 WEATHER
A DUST STORM IN IRAG

 

. e qe . tet
elaborate maps, a parade of experts, embedded unshaven reporters and a ubiquitous scrolling news ticker

at the bottom of our screens. For a select few Washington and Lee University alumni, however, the wat In

 

 

 

Iraq was no television broadcast, as it was for the rest of us. It was absolutely real. by Coy Barefo oF

Chris Dalton ’97 came to W&L with plans for a lucrative career
in the financial sector. But when his father, John H. Dalton, was
appointed secretary of the Navy while Chris was a student, he
began to take a serious look at the Marine Corps. ‘Then, in the
summer of 1995, Air Force F-16 pilot Scott O’Grady was shot
down in Bosnia and rescued by a platoon of Marines.

“IT remember reading that the average Marine on that mis-
sion was 19 years old,” Dalton said in an email. “I was 21 that
year, and I felt like I’d never really challenged myself or done
anything to really be proud of. So I decided then that I was going
to join the Marines.”

In June of 1997, three days after graduating from W&L with
a degree in economics, he reported to Officer Candidates School
in Quantico, Va. Six years later, Dalton is an accomplished

Marine Corps pilot who flies the helicopter dubbed the CH-
53E Super Stallion, which transports equipment and supplies
during amphibious assaults. Stationed at the Ali Al Salem Att
Base in Kuwait, just 40 miles from the Iraqi border, Dalton and
his crew flew countless missions to and from the front lines dul
ing the war, helping to keep the Ist Marine Division supplied

with fuel, ammunition, food and water. .
> he wrote candidly,

mall-arms fire a
d then it’s back
ome next.
you know
he fact IS;

“The scary moments definitely come,’
recalling a moonless night when he survived s
close range. “But those times don’t last long, an
to sitting around in the heat waiting for what will ¢
The worst part of it all is getting word that someone
has been killed. It gets into your head for a while, but ¢
you have to keep going. There is still a job to be done.

 

 

fice WE Ae Bs «ins 4

  

“Ty fight alongside fellow pernieNaer is
I cannot describe,” he added. In
| feel sorry for people who will
and understand what we

something
strange Way:
er experience
gone throug
It’s not g
| hope to never have to B
‘ves me an appreciation for

~~~ done this g , :
- ountry and my family and friends that I
vc \ \

a 99
d never have had betore.
aware of the debate

a
nc\
have
War sucks.

h. Don’t get me wrong:
lorious; it’s not romantic.
do it again. But hav-

m

coul
Dalton was keenly

ded the use of military force in

n
chat surrou ;
lot of people in the States

Iraq. “I know a |
opposed the war but su projiee the aaNet
That's all we can really ask for,” he wrote. “In
this business, we have to hope that our lead-
ers are making the right decisions regarding
the use of the military. Whether or not we
should have done this is not my decision.
| just follow my orders and fly my missions. It
is rewarding, though, to look down from the
helicopter and see Iraqis waving. It makes
me feel like we did some good and will
ultimately have made peoples’ lives better.”

Dalton had this to say to his fellow alumni: “When you see a
serviceman or woman, tell them thanks once in awhile. ‘Uhat means
alot to us. It’s always unexpected when someone takes a second
just to say thank you, and it is always very much appreciated.”

Dalton returned home this summer and its stationed at

Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, San Diego.

 

“Back when I was walking the colonnade at W&L, I never
would have thought I’d join the military, not in a million years,”
laughed Michael F. Morris °87. “When you got a bad haircut at
the barbershop in Lexington, something really short that looked
like a military cut, we’d tease each other, We’d say, ‘Are you
going to enlist?’ And the answer was always, “Yeah, right!’ ”

But in his last year of dental school at the Medical College of
Virginia, in Richmond, Morris reconsidered his options. “That
Was at a me when we had no money, and a free lunch was a
800d thing,” he said. “The military did some recruiting at MCV.
All you had to do was sit and listen to their spiel and they’d serve
a p free lunch. A lot of us took them up on the offer, never
thinking we'd actually enter the service. As I was sitting there
Pte. though, I started to like what I was hearing.”

Fast-forward 12 years: Lt. Col. Michael Morris is now a

dentist w; 1Q A: ;
: St with the U.S. Air Force, stationed at Offutt Air Force
ase, Nebraska, where

Cy in advanced educ
returned from an
the war he spent f

he serves as the director of the residen-
ation in general dentistry. Morris recently
undisclosed location in Oman, where during

Med: our and a half months with an Expeditionary
~ ial Support Group, or EMEDS.

 

DO YOU RECOGNIZE THIS MAN?

CHRIS DALTON

HIS MARINE UNIFORM
AND HAIRCUT.

"97 SPORTS

“With EMEDS,” he explained, “we can go
from our home base to anywhere in the world,
set up and be ready to see patients all within
48 hours. We set up in tents, sort of like a
MASH (Mobile Army Surgical Hospital) unit.
It’s pretty remarkable to see, because here you
are out in the middle of nowhere in a tent,
halfway around the world, but you’ve got the
very latest high-tech medical equipment. It’s
really impressive.”

As the only dentist in the deployed group,
Morris treated nearly 200 patients during his
time overseas. “The predominant ailment was
a cracked or broken tooth, usually from some
kind of an accident. [ also did root canals,
extracted teeth, saw some abscesses and infec-
tions. We basically ran the whole gamut of
general dentistry.”

With B1 bombers, air refuelers and AWAC.
(airborne warning and control system) planes
constantly taking off and landing, the base in
Oman was a busy place. “But you probably
didn’t see or hear a lot about us on the news,”
Morris pointed out. “They were focusing

more on the fighter jets on the carriers. But the planes from our

base dropped a predominant number of the bombs,” such as the

so-called bunker-busters that targeted the Baghdad neighbor-

hood where the U.S. military believed Saddam Hussein and his

top officials were meeting.

Morris was gratified and honored to have played an impor-

tant role in the medical support team during the war. “But you

know,” he concluded, “I was still very glad to get home.

Nothing beats coming home.”

 

MIKE MORRIS ’87, CENTER, RECEIVED A PROMOTION
TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL WHILE SERVING WITH
THE AIR FORCE IN OMAN THIS SPRING.

 

Washington and

 

fu WE ake Oe has

iM (te G GA 22 i NM.

 

LISA JOHNSON ’O6 AND BOB HERRING ’7O TAKE A BREAK
FROM THEIR DUTIES AT FT. EUSTIS IN HAMPTON ROADS,
VA. THE FORT IS HOME TO THE ARMY TRANSPORTATION
CORPS AND THE TRANSPORTATION CORPS REGIMENT.

Robert H. Herring Jr. ’70 was one of over 200,000 Reserve
and National Guard soldiers placed on active duty during the
war in Iraq. A deputy commissioner at the Virginia Workers’
Compensation Commission, Herring holds a law degree from
the University of South Carolina and a master’s degree in law
from Georgetown University. In mid-January, he reported for
duty at Fort Eustis in Newport News, Va., where he serves as
the staff judge advocate and head of the legal office for the

2174th Garrison Support Unit.

“My office validated and processed all the Reserve and
National Guard units that were deployed to Iraq,” Herring
explained. “It was our job to make sure that they had everything
they needed, that any pending legal issues were taken care of
and that they received all the proper legal advice. With return-
ing troops, we’ll handle their demobilization process as well.”

Herring received assistance from fellow alumnus John L.
Brownlee ’87, a major in the Army Reserve. Brownlee is the U.S.
attorney for the Western District of Virginia, having been
appointed to that position by President George W. Bush in 2001.

“T have been very impressed with the quality of the sol-
diers,” Herring said. “I think the American public should be very
confident and proud of the men and women who serve in our
armed forces.” He added that we can be doubly proud of the W&L
alumni who choose to serve. “I think a school like Washington
and Lee encourages public service. It can be performed in a
variety of ways, in a profession like teaching, medicine or law,
or ina military career serving your country. Some sort of a career

in service, working to make things better, giving back to your
community, that’s the sort of life that W&L fosters.”

 

 

Working on Col. Herring's staff at Fort Eustis js

Eli
(Lisa) Johnson °06, a 20-year-old native of Forest Mice

began her studies at Washington and Lee in the fall of 2002. Sh
‘She

Who

served as a paralegal in the 2174th Garrison Support Unit Sh
- She

put her first year of college on hold until this fal].

“Sure, I'd

rather be in school,” she said in the spring. “But P’ve ZOt a job
a jo

to do here and that’s my priority.”

Johnson comes from a family in which military Service
a is
proud tradition. “My father was in the Army in Vietnam 7
, an
three of my brothers are in the service, two in the Navy and one j
Cin

the Army.” Her youngest brother is in the Army Reserve as

Well,

“T was there when the recruiter came to talk to my young
er

brother,” she recalls. “I was listening and thinking to myself, |

can do that. The challenge of serving is what attracted me most.

I liked the idea of challenging myself.”

‘Though she enjoys the study of philosophy, Johnson has yet

to decide on a major. “I’m going to keep my options open,

” she

said thoughtfully. She is also considering law school and plans to

stay committed to the Reserves.

“I’m really happy to have been able to play a part,” she said

about the war in Iraq. “I’m excited that I’ve had an opportunity

to get some active duty experience too. ‘That’s why I joined the

Reserves, to do my part as best as I could, not just to go once a

month or two weeks a year but actually to serve my country.”

 

Like many Americans, the life of Sam Horstman 98

changed profoundly as a result of the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

An anthropology/archaecology major and former W&L lacrosse

player, he was working for U.S. Foodservice in the Washington

area that morning and found himself less than two miles

from

the Pentagon when the terrorists struck. Within six months,
Horstman was in the Army, and by 2003 he was serving in Iraq
with the 3rd Infantry Division, 1st Battalion, 15th Infantry Regt.

Because he was unavailable for an interview due to his

assignment in Iraq, his mother, Rosemary Horstman, k

indly

agreed to talk with W&L Alwmni Magazine. “Sam took the ter

rorist attacks very personally,” she said. “He felt like he ne

eded

to do something. It was a call to action for him. His view Was,
how dare people come and threaten our country, OUT freedom.

He felt like he needed to contribute, do his part.”

While Horstman could easily have entered Of
Candidate School, he chose instead to begin his service 1n the

enlisted ranks and reported to Fort Benning, Ga., in Feb

eG

“The worst part of it all is get
word that someone you kno
has been killed. It gets into”

head for a while, but the fac

is =
.

you have to keep going:

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
  

ruary

fs

 

  
  

  

5 very important to him,” Mrs. Horstman said.
ry conscious decision that he could be a much
der in the future if he was willing to go
listed men go through. He knew going in
llege boy, the old man. He knew that
ally he didn’t fit with the enlisted men. But it was
for him to learn firsthand and really understand

9002. “That we
“He made 4 Ve
effective lea
h what the en
would be the co

more
chroug
that he wot
demographic
more important
what the average sold

Spe. Horstman serves as
her explained “It was Sam’s job to breach the border. So
mothe ;

they crossed into Iraq, he was one of the guys out there
a the wire, clearing and securing the area. He’s the front
E the front line.” , |
In their push north to Baghdad, his regiment was at the
center of some of the fiercest fighting in the war. “They’ve
seen the worst of it,’ Mrs. Horstman said. “Which, of course,
makes it so hard on the families. For awhile there I saw Sam in
every battle, every suicide bombing, every checkpoint killing.
Anything that happened that day, I thought it was him. I'd stop
and look at the clock and say okay, I have three hours, because

ier goes through.”
a rifleman and breachman. As his

the Army will contact you within three hours if you have fam-
ily that’s killed. But there would be no call.

“A Jot of people think it’s all over and then soldiers are
done,” she continued. “But it’s still a very dangerous place.
We just want them all to complete their missions and come
home as soon as possible.”

Sa ee
SAM HORSTMAN ’98 ON THE IRAQ
BORDER IN THE SPRING OF 2003.

 

 

In his first peacekeeping assignment, Horstman took part
in cleaning up and reopening Baghdad University, making it
safe for students to return to classes. He arrived safe and sound
in the States in July. After a short leave, he’s stationed at Fort
Benning, Ga. Horstman plans to make a career in the Army.

 

Some might have said that Alex Cross 95 had it made: a
bachelor’s degree from Washington and Lee, a master’s of

business administration from the prestigious Kellogg School at
Northwestern University and a promising position at one of the
finest banking firms in the country. He was on the fast track to
corporate success. Yet something was missing.

“| worked very hard to get where I was,” Cross said. “But
I found myself wanting a little something different. I was
looking for a chance to get some real leadership experience. I
wanted to learn to lead people, not just to manage them. But
I was only 25 at that time, still pretty young in the corporate
world. So I joined the Marines.”

Cross quickly learned some valuable lessons about people when
he entered the Corps. “W&Ls a great place. I loved that place. But
it’s a bubble, a perfect little world that provides a fantastic learning
experience. Generally you don’t meet a different type of person,
like some of the guys P’ve met in the Marine Corps. I’m talking
about guys who are just thankful they've got a square meal, a
bed to sleep on and a little stability. No matter where we’re from,
Beverly Hills or the slums, we came together as one unit. It’s a
depth of experience that I never thought I would have, and that
I certainly wouldn't have had in the business world.”

Cross works with the Marines’ Direct Air Support Center,
which coordinates close air support for infantry units. He can be
deployed as many as 150 days out of a year. During the war,
Cross served as a liaison to the 7th Marines, traveling through
southern Iraq and into Baghdad with Regimental Combat Team 7.

‘The Marine recalled the tense moments before his regiment
entered enemy territory. “Right before we started to head out,
we got word that there were 90 ‘I-72s just over the border,” he
said. “Those are the premier tanks of the (Iraqi) Republican
Guards. But they were not supposed to be down that far south.
‘That was very unexpected news. So we paused and shot a lot of
artillery in that location. We found out later that it was just bad
human intelligence. ‘The tanks weren’t there. It was kind of
funny when we thought about it. ‘There was nothing there.”

Cross said his regiment went first with the British forces

 

 

Washington an ad bee Be 4-8 Bee

 

 

north to Al Basrah and secured the airport and some key places
in the Rumaila oil fields. “We left the Brits to take the rest of
Basrah and headed northwest towards An Nasiriyah. With all the
trouble they were having there, we went around it and a little
farther north. We were just across the Euphrates River during
the sandstorm. The amazing thing is that we weren’t supposed
to cross the Euphrates until between 15 and 30 days into the
operation. We crossed it in five. So we kind of paused there and
waited for our supply line to catch up.”

After heavy fighting in Al Kut and Ad Diwantyah, Cross’ reg-
iment eventually made it to Baghdad. He was among the first
Marines to roll into the city. “I believe we went in in the morn-
ing,” he said. “The bridges were blown, so we went across the
Navy’s floating bridges. We went first to an old air base then pro-
ceeded into the city. People were lined along the streets, blow-
ing kisses, waving, cheering, clapping. You could tell we did a
good thing. Whether you agree or not with the means, the end
was good, and that was getting rid of Saddam Hussein and giv-
ing the Iraqis a chance to see what freedom is all about.”

Speaking frankly of his experiences in the war, Cross added,
“There are times when it’s absolute boredom broken only by
sheer terror.” He spent a month in Iraq before returning home
to Camp Pendleton on Memorial Day weekend.

THE

Edward A. “Ned” Powell ’70 took the
helm of the United Service Organizations
(USO) as president and CEO in January
2002 after a distinguished career in the pub-
lic and private sectors. A former deputy sec-
retary of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
a Navy yeoman and an entrepreneur, he
holds an M.B.A. from the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Leading the
USO into the 21st century is a challenge for
which Powell is supremely qualified.

“The mission of the USO is simple,”
Powell said. “To support the morale of our
soldiers, airmen and sailofs. its very
straightforward. Only about 20 percent of
what we do is the entertainment tours for
which we are predominantly known. ‘The  .
rest of it has to do with bringing a touch of home to our men
and women overseas. That could mean providing an
Internet line so they can email their loved ones or even buy-
ing an injured soldier a new set of civilian clothes.”

The USO is a private, nonprofit organization independent
of the U.S. government and military. Powell oversees a bud-
get of approximately $30 million a year that is used to uplift
the spirits of American servicemen and servicewomen around

INCREDIBLE POWER OF

I talk about the incredible power of ‘thank you.’ That's

     
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
    

Approximately 150 W&L alumni are currently g erving a j
the

: es resident
‘Tom Burish expressed his admiration and appreciation “H

‘ Ours
mmis-
gherty

. ° ° Ie Ven . Moy-
ing experience that reminded those of us present of the co
mMm-

U.S. armed forces at home and abroad. University p

before this year’s graduation,” he said, “we hosted a Co
sioning ceremony for one of our graduates, Matthew Doy
03, who was about to enter the U.S. Marine Corps,

mitment, courage and sacrifice the men and women In 9
ur

armed forces make daily for us all. Our gratitude goes out to each

one of them. We pray for their safety and their speedy

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
    

‘ return
home, especially for those from the W&L community.” §

¥

“THAN

  

the world. ‘The USO is never about po
tics, Powell explained, but about the

  

ple who are courageous enough to dedi-
cate themselves to military service.
“Take the war in Iraq, for example,” he
said. “I don’t care what your sense is
about whether we should or shouldnt be
there. If you don’t think we should be
there, then don’t get mad at the kids that
went over there. They went under orders.
They are an instrument of policy, Du!
they’re not a formulator of policies. Ir’
very important to understand that fact.
“The USO is here to say thank you
those men and women and their families;
he continued. “Thank you for the sa6
fices they all make every day. That's W "

  

 
 

  

  

  

  
 
   

  
       
  
 
 
 
 

mately what we’re about. They need to understand
they’re appreciated, loved and not forgotten. That’s somevu®
the military can’t do for itself. That’s what we do. That's ¥
we’re going to Baghdad this summer, and Kuwait, Qataf |
the ships at sea, and then on to Korea and Okinawa. We will!
over there to extend our thanks and express our gratitude

_Coy ba

 

 

Washington and

bie EE A Ou

M A GA 2 tN &

 

 

  

Thomas V. Litzen-

rtly before
-” as director of

Ty

Jr. °57 retired in jul

ton and Lee's . Center,
ing

fered the baccal 7
3 Peering over his

cnet

burg
Wash
he deliv
ro the Class of 200

cté angular wire-rim £
he desc

laureate address

lasses at the grad-
re
yates-to-be,
d-tie univ ersit
50 years rier calling it

Aithoug he thou ht
“ast about perfect.” Althoug h °

ibed the small,

+ he had found in
coat-an

L exington 9

Washington and Lee had changed, he
- ’ . Ee es 99
found “it 1s still nearly perfect.

Just about. Nearly.
Had you asked | ae as an

undergraduate or were you Co ask him

as a newly retired alumnus and

employee, he w ould readily point out
exactly where, in his opinion, a few

improvements might be made. In fact,
this is the key to ‘Tom Litzenburg: He
strives for the highest standard in all
things, and nowhere has this been truer
than at his beloved Washington and
Lee. As former President John Wilson,
who brought Litzenburg to W&L in
1992, says, “He has an extraordinary
commitment to excellence.”
Although today he strolls along the
Colonnade with a patrician bearing,
Litzenburg is not ashamed to admit
he grew up poor. “My mother and I
lived in Baltimore in a boardinghouse. I
sling badly about the fact that we had no
money because I didn’t
“But it sure did sha
Litzenburg disco
received a scholar.
Episcopal prep sch«
Washington and Ba:
must have been a |
he laughed, “and |
streets. And they asked only one question: ‘Do you play
lacrosse?’ So | Just tagged ans with a whole bunch of friends
and came down here
The trip was “

pety fell in love with the campus but knew he could never
attord the tuition. Then he had a fateful encounter with Dean
of Admissions Fran|
Was a postulate fi

W&L3 Pre-ministe

“Among his other |

grew up not really fe«
really know any better,” he recollected.
pe my life in a lot of ways.”

vered how the other half lived when he
: ~ to St. Paul’s School,
|. While there, he became familiar with
iit the 1950s, I swear to God, there
)us that the University sent to Baltimore,”

a prestigious

think it was just driven up and down the

to visit.”
sheer torture” because Litzenburg immedi-

< Gilliam °17. Discovering that Litzenburg
t holy orders, Gilliam urged him to apply for
rial scholarship. Litzenburg said with a smile,
.. nee in life, [Gilliam] took it upon himself
Baa _ niversity men off to semunaly as he possibly
-, scl o accepted him with full funding.
“Surg called his first year at W&L “an unmitigated

|

‘Tom Li car
Pursuit of Perf ection.

Oye wu Bd

TOM LITZENBURG ’57 POSES WITH A FAVORITE TREASURE
FROM THE REEVES COLLECTION, A C.
IMAGES BASED ON BRITISH HUNTING PRINTS.

1765 PUNCH BOWL DECORATED

 

itzenbure |

 

Boa R 5 0 Noe

disaster” because he “did what every preppy did at W&L”—
indulge in an active social life. But the faculty “watched over
me like a hawk,” and early in Litzenburg’s sophomore year,
Gilliam took him aside to suggest he shape up if he intended
to go to seminary. He credited Ray Smith ’55, his Beta Theta
Pi fraternity brother, for turning his academic life around.
Every night Smith took him to Payne or Robinson Hall, where
he would demonstrate how to review class notes by outlining
them on the blackboards. Within one semester, Litzenburg
said, his grades went from “abysmal” to “spectacular.”

The fledgling clergyman also began to look more critically
at his surroundings, speaking out about what he saw as the
University’s shortcomings, whether from the pages of 7he Ring-
tum Pit, where he was editor, or at the fraternity-house dinner
table. An early advocate of integration and other issues,
Litzenburg remembered someone calling him “the irritant in
the student body’s life.”
ident of university relations and a Beta Theta Pi brother,

Farris Hotchkiss ’58, former vice pres-

offered a more diplomatic assessment: “Although he at times
offered opinions that many of us were not ready to receive with
open minds, he was an influence on us for the better in ways
we did not always understand or appreciate.”

 

a

O20 8

Ad

my

BaYHGOU YS ©

Litzenburg majored in philosophy in
preparation for attending seminary, but during
his senior year, Gilliam’s assistant, James D.
Farrar Sr. ’49, informed him that W&L was
nominating him for the prestigious Danforth
Fellowship. Candidates had to show an inter-
est in college teaching and plan to obtain a doc-
torate. Although Litzenburg didn’t think he
had a chance, he ended up winning. ‘Thinking
back, he shook his head in amazement. “The
Danforth Fellowship paid all my bills—a// my
bills—for the next seven years of my life.”

Instead of going to seminary, he entered
Yale Divinity School, where he learned to study
all over again with the not-so-gentle help of
fellow W&L alumnus John David Maguire ’53,
the teaching assistant for a two-semester course
on the history of Christian doctrine. Maguire’s
remarks on his work were “devastating.”

“You’re like an Olympic diver but with an
exception,” Litzenburg remembered Maguire
(now president emeritus of Claremont Graduate
University) saying. “You go out onto the end of
the board and you bounce up and down ever so
elegantly, but you never dive.” ‘The student took
the teacher’s criticism to heart and set his bar a little higher.

After finishing his Yale degree, Litzenburg enrolled in Prince-
ton’s new graduate religion program, earning an M.A. and a Ph.D.
In 1964 he took on the dual position of chaplain and instructor
in the religion department at Wells College in Aurora, N.Y. “It
was a sweet college of about 600 students, all women,” Litzen-
burg nostalgically recollected, “that was at the top of its game.”

Enter John Wilson, who became Wells’ president in 1965.
Over the next nine years, Litzenburg and Wilson worked
together with increasing closeness. “He was very bright and
articulate,” Wilson recalled, “and I thought I could use him to
articulate the mission of the university, which was under the
strain of coeducation at the time.”

Wells remains single-sex to this day, but Litzenburg grew
tired of wrangling with the social issues on campus and watch-
ing, in his view, the quality of the student body decline. He
opted to leave after 1974 to join the National Endowment for
the Humanities as a program officer. He also wrote occasional
speeches for a man named Joe Duffy in the U.S. Department of
State. In 1977, when President Jimmy Carter named Duffy as
director of the NEH, Duffy promoted Litzenburg, who eventu-
ally assumed the title of assistant director, a position created
specifically for him. Contrasting those years to his roots,
Litzenburg said, “What a heady, heady world it was.”

But when President Ronald Reagan came into power in
1981, the Carter appointees were suddenly jobless. With Duffy’s
help, Litzenburg briefly became a lobbyist for the Association of
American Universities, representing the interests of the arts and
humanities. Kowtowing to members of Congress didn’t sit well

with him. “In less than halfa year, I was in utter agony,” he

   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

“T had already had my fill of United States senators.”
Despondent, he again turned for advice to Duffy, who s
gested he consider becoming a college president and coac
him through the application process. Soon the University of th
South, Skidmore College, Agnes Scott College and Sal
College all expressed interest. Litzenburg accepted the p
dency of Salem, in Winston-Salem, N.C., in 1982. “It
already clear that the hour of men being presidents of women
colleges was over,” he said. “They didn’t see it, and neither did I
After eight years as president, Litzenburg made the unwe
come suggestion to Salem’s alumnae and trustees that the ce
lege should either go coed or operate exclusively as a girls’ p
school. He resigned and accepted an appointment as a visitin
scholar at the National Humanities Center in Research Trang
Park, N.C. “I was studying my navel,” he said, “and trying
figure out what to do with my life.” Along came John Wilson, ©
then president of Washington and Lee, who called to see if
had any interest in returning to W&L as his assistant. He did. |
During his first year back, 1992, Litzenburg shouldered 4 |
task of chairing a committee to select a successor to James W. Whit
head, who was due to retire as the founding director of the Ree
Center, home to the extensive collection of paintings and C
Export porcelain donated to the University by Euchlin :
Reeves’27L and Louise Herreshoff Reeves. Litzenburg prese™™
Wilson with a slate of candidates, only to have the president s
gest he attend the committee’s next meeting, where he furtt
recommended they temporarily disband and let Litzenbu
become the acting director of the Reeves Center.

 

 

WashAnwg? tes and

Lia ee 6400 eee

M “A= G@ A Z Pee

 

  

first, Litzenburg thought it was a — Se
day Wilson would ask, “Why aren't you down there?

mended Wilson reconvene the selection com-
ponded by dissolving the group and

anent director of the Reeves Center.

 

At
but every
When he recom
mittee the president res

aming Bemenourg permane 4
Sebi decision, Wilson said simply, “He turned out to be a bet-

ndidate than any of the legitimate candidates.”

ca pie. :
When he took over, Litzenburg discovered that for the major-
of the collection, “¢here was no documentation that indicated
ity O

where these _— oe
what their significance Is. :
appeared on the scene. She had recently returned to Harrison-
burg, Va., with degrees in art history from Smith College and the
University of London and experience working with Chinese
antiquities at Sotheby’s, in New hoc City. Because she loved
porcelain, Bailey had contacted Whitehead, who directed her to
Litzenburg. At first a volunteer, Bailey eventually became

Litzenburg’s full-time assistant as he began to plan a book cata-

ter

had come from, what their exact date was and
> Fortunately, Ann ‘I. “Holly” Bailey

loguing the most important pieces in the collection.

Projects were in full swing at the Reeves Center when
Wilson suddenly became aware that the Lee Chapel Museum
desperately needed renovation. “Why don’t you do that?”
Litzenburg recalled Wilson saying to him. “I wasn’t being asked.
| was being appointed to this humongous thing!” ‘Thinking
back on it, Wilson joked, “He had lots of things on his plate, so
| just gave him one or two more.”

Not knowing quite where to begin, Litzenburg asked history
professors Holt Merchant ’61 and ‘laylor Sanders to come up with
“a story’ the museum might tell “about George Washington,
Robert E. Lee, the Custis family and this institution.’ With their
draft in hand, he approached Mary Coulling, a local author, to
script the exhibits. Wé&L staff members Vicki D. Sessions and
Capt. Robert C. Peniston (both now retired) lent their expertise.
Next, Litzenburg hired a museum designer, architects and
subcontractors. But as work progressed, he wasn’t satisfied with
the results. “It was all good stuff, but it just wasn’t right,” he
said. “And I was in despair.”

He turned to Frank A. Parsons 54, then
coordinator of facilities planning, for help.
Parsons took on the unenviable role of liai-
Son, diplomatically soothing the chafed nerves
of the designer, architects and subcontrac-
tors. “Frank, almost every day, was putting
out a fire I had lit,” said Litzenburg.

Parsons would often arrive at work to
find his phone ablaze with up to five mes-
Sages from Litzenburg, some left as early
aS 9:30 a.m. “He’s a perfectionist, and as
Such he can be difficult to work with,”
Parsons said “Bur j wn

- But if you do work with
. _ to ne his many SHRENg EHS
comings. i - ideas. And his short-
to overlook . “ile —— iain

em and even admire him

 

because he does have these conflicts within himself.”

During the museum’s renovation, Washington and Lee’s
presidency passed from John Wilson to John Elrod, who men-
tioned in passing to Litzenburg that he hoped the museum
would be finished in time for the University’s 250th anniversary,
in 1999. Litzenburg was aghast; no one had mentioned a dead-
line to him. He reluctantly agreed under two conditions: He
would receive the funds he requested with no future regrets,
and he would not be second-guessed in his supervision of the
job. Elrod agreed, and Litzenburg completed the Lee Chapel
Museum on time and to his elevated standards.

His attention to the museum, however, took several years
away from the book he intended to produce for the Reeves
Center. David S. Howard, a leading scholar on Chinese Export
porcelain, had persuaded Litzenburg that it should be a priority.
“He said you need to do it because the Reeves Center will not
gain any further recognition—in fact, it will lose recognition—if
a book isn’t written soon,” Litzenburg explained. “The key to
great porcelain collections and great painting collections are the
books that are written about them and which receive the impri-
matur of the scholars that review them.”

‘Io help with the book’s research, Litzenburg and Bailey
brought in student volunteers and started a summer internship
program. Armistead Lemon 99, now a graduate student in
English at the University of North Carolina, interned at
Sotheby’s the summer before her senior year. She introduced
herself to Litzenburg when she returned to campus and worked
at the Reeves Center for the next 12 months. “He had the
patience and energy to believe in the potential of each and every
one of us who walked through the doors,” she said. “His faith
and encouragement in me were the greatest gifts I received dur-
ing my time at W&L.”

With the manuscript finally complete, Litzenburg began to
think nervously about a suitable publisher. One came looking for
him. Having seen the finished manuscript, Howard had called
‘Third Millennium Publishing, known for its publications for muse-
ums as well as for the Library of Congress,
and suggested they contact Litzenburg.

Once he realized ‘Vhird Millennium was
seriously interested, Litzenburg boldly told
them: “I have a very clear picture of how
this book should be laid out and designed,
and would you be comfortable with that?”
He said with delight, “I set absolutely
impossible standards, and they met every
damn one of them.” ‘The result is Chinese
Export Porcelain tn the Reeves Center Collection
at Washington and Lee University, a hand-
some, lavishly illustrated book, with 288
pages of color photographs and knowledge-
able descriptions of the beautiful porcelain.

Although he is a_ perfectionist,
there’s a side to Litzenburg that has deep
compassion for human frailty and suffering.

 

Washington and fie We Maw ie Su a

 

 

An ordained Episcopal priest, he served as the University’s act-
ing chaplain from the time of his return. He was hesitant to
accept the post and warned both Wilson and Elrod that he had
no intention of starting an active ministry. Nevertheless, he per-
formed baptisms, annual services, marriages and funerals, and
provided gentle counsel to anyone in need. “I will never forget
his kindness and generosity when my mother was ill and dying,”
said Bailey. “No one could have been nicer.”

Hotchkiss pointed out, “Perhaps the folks who will miss
‘Tom particularly are the good people who come to work in the
wee hours of the morning. ‘Tom was usually on campus even
before they were, and, I know, was a counselor and friend on
numerous occasions.”

Litzenburg retires from W&L with his commitment
excellence clearly visible in the Lee Chapel Museum al
Reeves Center and Chinese Export Porcelain in the Reeves Conta
Collection. “But his clear focus on the virtues of Washington and
Lee, and his willingness to stand up and say when he thought
we were straying from those virtues, will be sorely missed,” saiq _
Hotchkiss. He added fondly, “I’m really not sure who our nel ;
curmudgeon will be.”

Although Litzenburg professed to have no immediate plans.
he said, “You know, I didn’t realize it until recently: I have spent
my entire life trying to get back to paradise. And I can tell you 1
this, I’m not leaving.” .

And if he makes paradise a little more perfect, so be it. ¢

 

This is the book that Chinese Export porcelain collectors and
admirers have been anticipating eagerly, ever since the extraorda-
nary Reeves Collection came to their attention 30 years ago, and
it has proved itself well worth the wait... . Chinese Export
Porcelain in the Reeves Center Collection promises to be the
“must have’ collection catalogue of 2003 and should remain a
source of pride both for the authors and for Washington and Lee
University, which has had the vision to encourage and support this
significant contribution to literature in the ceramics field.

—Letitia Roberts, former senior vice president and direc-
tor of European ceramics and Chinese Export porcelain,

Sotheby’s, New York

In 1967, Washington and Lee University received an unusual
gift from Euchlin D. Reeves ’27L and his wife, Louise Herre-
shoff Reeves: more than 1,800 pieces of Chinese Export porcelain
dating from the late 16th century. The Reeveses also donated
some 4,200 glass and ceramic objects and furniture, as well as
artwork by the talented Mrs. Reeves. To house and display this
important collection, in 1982 the University created the Reeves
Center for Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and Paintings,
with support from Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Gottwald Jr. In 1993, Mrs.
William C. Watson underwrote the Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts,
named for William C. Watson ’29, to house recent additions.

‘Today the collection of porcelain encompasses almost 3,000
pieces thanks to subsequent donations and acquisitions.
Chinese Export Porcelain in the Reeves Center Collection at
Washington and Lee University, a glossy, full-color, 288-page vol-
ume, showcases 281 of the collection’s most important pieces.
‘The book is the spectacular result of 11 years of research, plan-
ning and writing by departing Reeves Center director ‘Thomas V.

Litzenburg Jr., in collaboration with associate director Ann T.
“Holly” Bailey. When Litzenburg took over the Reeves
Center in 1992, the porcelain collection was well known
among specialists, but its only documentation was a slim black-
and-white catalog, produced in 1973 for a small exhibit at the
High Museum of Art in Atlanta. Litzenburg thought that a
definitive, well-illustrated guide would benefit not just the
Reeves Center but Washington and Lee in general, and he
dedicated his years at the center to realizing this goal.

Published by London’s Third Millennium Publishing, known
for its volumes on historic art collections, Chinese Export Porcelain
includes a preface by David S. Howard, the premier scholar on
the topic, plus a foreword and introduction by Litzenburg, The
three main sections each correspond to a century and explain
historic trends in porcelain production before presenting pho-
tographs and detailed discussions of the individual pieces.
Readers may be pleasantly surprised to learn that both George
Washington and Robert E. Lee have connections 60 several
pieces. A chronology, bibliography and index support the text.

Offering high praise for the book, Howard said, “Tt is vel
illustrated and well laid out. It’s both readable and instructive.
He added, “If anyone wanted to use it as a training manual, It
could serve as that, too.”

For Litzenburg, the final product captures precisely what
he envisioned. “You’re never going to get another book like
this. This book carries the University’s name on the front of It,
as no accident, but it is only modestly a subject,” he said. “But
the reader gets involved, and if they've never heard of the
University, the University comes alive.”

7.
To order a copy of Chinese Export Porcelain, see the ad on p- |
Laura Parsons

 

 

Washi wn gto and

Ee Cures

M A, G A227. Ie hee

 

 

merce P
CENTER COLLECT

AS A ST

COLLEC

When Peter Grover ’73 was an undergraduate studying

economics, his friend Bruce Perkins ’73, an art history major,
suggested he ask James Whitehead, founding director of the
Reeves Center, about joining him as an intern working on

   
  
  
  
  
  

the newly acquired Reeves Collection. Whitehead
immediately tasked Grover with cataloguing a
crate of porcelain as it was unpacked, a respon-
sibility that both intimidated and thrilled him.

Little did Grover know that 30 years
later, he would again find himself inti-
mately involved with Washington and
Lee’s porcelain as well as its other art hold-
ings. This time, however, he’s the one hiring
interns as he becomes W&L’s first director
of University collections.

Although Grover majored in economics, he “took a few
courses in art history and thoroughly enjoyed the visible,” he
said. So much so that history professor J. Davis Futch men-
tioned Grover’s interest in art to Walter P. Chrysler Jr. at a gath-
“ring in Norfolk, Va., where Chrysler had recently donated his
“nowned art collection. Chrysler hired Grover upon graduation
‘© work for the museum bearing Chrysler’s name, and Grover’s
Professional involvement with the visible was set in motion.

Grover went on to earn an M.A. in art history at Virginia
_mmonweal th University, after which he worked for the
= s National Portrait Gallery. Inspired that J. Carter

€n director of the National Gallery of Art, held both

a

0 M.B.A, and an art history degree, Grover decided to enroll
in the College of W
that point forward, |
SeCtors of art

illiam and Mary’s business school. From
1e traveled between the public and private
collection and preservation, most recently

ERKINS 73, (On LITZENBURG ’57 AND PETER GROVER °73 EXAMINE
ESS COPY OF CHINESE EXPORT PORCELAIN IN THE REEVES
|ON. PERKINS DEVELOPED AN APPRECIATION FOR PORCELAIN
UDENT AND FORMER FOOTBALL PLAYER. TO HIS SURPRISE, “FIRST |

Bein LOVE WITH THE PAINTINGS AT W&L, THEN | STARTED RUMMAGING
NaROUND IN THE BASEMENT OF THE ROTC BUILDING, WHERE. THE REEVES
TION WAS ORIGINALLY KEPT.” HIS INTEREST CONTINUES TODAY: HE 1s
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DELAWARE’S WINTERTHUR MUSEUM, WHICH
BOASTS ITS OWN FINE COLLECTION OF PORCELAIN.

 

Peter
Crover ’73:
A Man with

a Plan

spending 10 years as executive
director of the Association for the
Preservation of Virginia Antiquities.

“Tom Litzenburg has left a huge
legacy at Washington and Lee
University in his work on behalf of
the Reeves Center,” said then-
Provost Laurent Boetsch 69. “In
Peter Grover, the University has
found exactly the right person to fur-
ther build the Reeves Center’s work
as a exhibition and research facility.
He also brings the expertise and
leadership necessary to centralize all
of Washington and Lee’s art hold-
ings and promote these collections
as an integral part of University life
and American history.”

Although he officially assumed
his W&L duties on July 1, Grover
spent the past year on campus col-
laborating with a small committee
to devise a three-phase strategic
plan for Washington and Lee’s numerous collections, which
comprise everything from porcelain to portraits. If people don’t
know now that W&L owns fine and decorative art (including

paintings by Charles Willson Peale), historic and archae-
ological artifacts (such as tools excavated at Liberty
Hall) and documents and papers (belonging
to George Washington, Robert E. Lee and
Lewis Powell, among others), they will after
Grover gets the plan up to full speed.
‘The first phase will involve simply
identifying what the University has and
what resources it needs to professionalize
and promote the collections. Grover explained,
F “We really need to step back and do the
basics, the ABCs.” Issues such as inventory, security
and conservation will be considered under this phase.

‘The second and third phases will deal with introducing the
collections into the educational, social and cultural life of W&L,
with an eye to future expansion, outreach and exhibition.
Energized by the committee’s ideas, Grover said, “We have a
plan, everybody buys into it and we know where we have to go.”

Reeves Center associate director Holly Bailey, a member
of Grover’s strategy committee, looks forward to working
with him. “Peter brings knowledge, experience, energy and
enthusiasm to the job,” she said.

Grover, who calls Jim Whitehead his mentor, emphasizes
that the collections provide ideal teaching tools. “Io me, it’s
going to be a mission of the heart,” he said of his new position.
“Now I get to do those duties and the fun work with interns
that Jim Whitehead did with me.”

—laura Parsons

 

Washinatonr and

a

 

ioe Te ee me

mh ee oe toe

OL: © Hd

A

BUTS sa re

AT @ No oo

‘

yee Oe ed” ee ee ee ee

 

  

An exciting format, great team lost to Long
00d

College.

The Gla of 7am
enjoyed a wine tasting and
banquet at the Lenfest
Center; reunionists With
five to 25 years under their
belts celebrated with a bar-
becue bash at Zollman’s
Pavilion; Law School alum-
ni gathered on the Lewis
Hall Lawn; and other
returning classes feasted at
banquets around town.

The weekend culmj-
nated Saturday with a
rainy night of music on the
Front Lawn. The audi-
ence listened to W&l,
musicians, including cur-
rent campus favorite ‘Trip
(Classes of ’02, ’03, 04 and
05); Irish music by the
Drunken Fiddlers; a cap-
pella groups Southern
Comfort, Jubilee and

athletic competition and
unbeatable entertainment
made this year’s Reunion
Weekend, May 1-3, a cele-
bration to remember.

The Hon. William E.
Brock III ’53 kicked off
the weekend on ‘Thursday
with reflections on the tra-
ditions that make W&L
great. Friday’s seminars

a end
ee Sees

explored politics and the
economic crisis and the

A
4
7

digital revolution in com-
munications. ‘They also
drew on the knowledge of
members of the Class of
°53 and offered reflections
on student life by David
Howison, outgoing dean
of students.

Fitness enthusiasts
enjoyed a wildflower walk
and a hme up” House
Mountain, the Stormin’

 

Norman Fun Run & Walk, General Admission; classic “
Lexington Road and River rock and folk selections
Relay and workouts in from MainPage; the soul-
W&Ls new fitness center. Reunion 2003 ful Southern rock of Will
Sports fans watched Thomas ’92 and the

students compete in men’s Liberty Hall Fuzztones;

lacrosse and baseball, and Rainy SR 1€S 9 5 UunNNY M emores and energetic rock covers

the soccer team welcomed by CHO (Classes of “90,
reunionists in an alumni may ts "01 and Yas

game. The women’s ten- Next year’s Reunion
nis team breezed through the first round of the Division III Weekend will take place April 29-May 1, 2004. Check
Women’s ‘Tennis Championships, but the women’s lacrosse www.alumni.wlu.edu for updates.

 

Reunion Awards: Reunion Gifts:

Reunion Trophy (for the class with the largest atten- Class of 1953: $22,390,782
dance): With 111 reunionists, the Class of 1993. Class of I953L: $495,673

Reunion Bowl (for the class with the highest percent- Class of 1978: $1,134,934 (including a scholarship
age of reunion attendance): With 45 percent registered, in honor of Larry Boetsch ’69 for leading the
the Class of 1973L.

Distinguished Alumni Awards: Christopher Porter campus as acting presi am
age Poe Sat ie Class of 1978L: $920,476

Distinguished Young Alumna Award: Monika Class of 2003: $3,200
Hussell ’93L Class of 2003L: $75,950

 

 

 

 

Alumni Director Rob Mish '76 bestows a
distinguished alumni award on Parker Smith
Jr. °53 as Smith’s fellow award-winners
Christopher Porter ’80 and Monika Hussell

°93L look on.

 

Above: Missy Brading, wife of Bryan

Brading '93, and their son, Bryson, visit
with Krista Lindsey Willim 795, ’03L. Right:

Lunch on the Front Lawn was one of the
teunion Weekend, but

lidn’t deter Saturday

4
Py

few dry events o

showers (delow) «
night’s audience from enjoying music in

   

the same locale.

 

Sa 1
fe atton 53 and Chet Burgess '74
Xamine the New equi ment at Reid Hall.

 

 

~~ tw wa

 

Washa «= gt

of Connecticut’s business school. It
recognizes small family businesses
that have demonstrated good busi-
ness practices and involvement in
their communities. ‘The recognition
came at the close of the dealership’s
25th year in business.

A 1935 ——>

Frederick Strong

plays golf (badly, he says) and sings
with the Beaufort Harbormasters
chapter of the National Barbershop
Society. He lives in Burton, S.C.

Oo 1936 — CS”
Albert J. Durante
and his wife, Lynn, celebrated their
58th wedding anniversary on May
12. They live in Flushing, N-Y.

fo... € SG BS... o>»
The Hon. Warren H.
Edwards (’4IL)
is “just glad to still be around.” He
lives in Bonifay, Fla.

O— 1937 —S>
The Hon. Thomas A.
Williams Jr. ("39L )
moved to Richmond.

Ceorge C. Kerr

is recovering from a total hip
replacement. Fortunately, he was
placed in the Lakeside Health
Care Center, which is just two
floors below his apartment, so his
wife, Florence, can come down
and visit any time. ‘They live in
Willow Street, Pa.

2... § O28 — a>

Calvert Thomas (’40OL)

was delighted to learn that his fami-
ly’s car dealership, ‘Thomas Cadillac
Jaguar, located in Hartford, Conn.,
was selected as a Family Business of
the Year for 2002 by the University

Have you given any thought to donning the blue and white
one more time for the honor of W&Ls senior citizens?
‘Think about it—we can be the first 70-plus-year-olds to
participate in that wonderful classic!

When we take the field, if we turn our hearing aids up,
we'll be able to hear the roar of the crowd. If we keep our
glasses on, we'll be able to see the ball. And when we do
see it and kick the hell out of it, Pll bet we could bang it
almost five yards! All we have to do is get in shape, and
we'll be able to get from one end of the field to the other
before halftime.

Here’s how we can pull
it off and survive. First, try
to position yourself so you
don’t have to run. We don’t
want any strained body
parts. [hose younger guys
won't know how to do this.
Don’t kick the ball unless
there’s a teammate no more
than a few yards away, then
aim it in his general direc-
tion and hope he’s good
enough to chase it down.
‘Thus you must only kick it
towards our most skilled
teammates.

Never try to head the

ys Ceara © ak)" A Ge ie es ere, Ga

   
 
   

 

Oo 1940 — GS»
Charles C. Curl Jr.

had a close encounter in his garage
with a thief trying to steal his
Honda Insight. The thief got the
car, but the police shot him dead a
few days later. Curl lives in
Amarillo, ‘Texas.

Robert L. Robertson
has Alzheimer’s. His wife, R
mary, writes that he would
proud to know that his grands
completed his first year at We
and has pledged Kappa Alph j
fraternity. The coupl ‘
Signal Mountain, Tenn.

     
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

€ live

OW 1941 &
William L. Evans Jr.

writes from Fort Worth Tex
6“ 9 . . . ? ne
I’m still ticking.”

Cumin 1 AO —— o>
The Hon. George M.
Foote (’42L)
enjoyed the mini-reunion with
many alumni at the wedding of his
granddaughter, Melissa Foote 98,
to Mason New 796. Melissa’s father
is George Foote Jr. °71. Foote lives
in Alexandria, La.

O_ 194 2—a
John Barrie Jr.
and his wife, Gini, spent “an exce
lent eight days” in the Do
Republic, together with his fo
roommates, Hank Woods °42 ap
Edgar Boyd 742, and their wi
Anne and Debbie.

Roland S. Freeman

moved into a high-rise senior com-
munity in Jacksonville, Fla. “It’s
very nice,” he reports.

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

ball, unless you want to be knocked silly. I’m surp
anybody dumb enough to take a major hit on the head
a fast-moving soccer ball got accepted at W&L. a
You know, we could end up being the stars o
game. While our opponents are doubled up laughing:
we just might pop one into the goal. Of course, we’
a real strong wind to do that.
So what do you say? Do we return to the glory
teryear? Or do we pass up this one last chance to
those young twerps that even after all these years '
still kick their butt—even though we were a
the ball? —Ellis “Spike” St

 

 

 

Wea sch

 

 

 

The Rev- Kenneth 5.

iel

i“ endanie :

: his wife, Frances, celebrated
and his

° i arene T
heir 60th wedding anni\ ersary on
ieeeig) 2002. They live in deci
Aug. 1¥;
wate, ‘Lenn.

ve A. Essig

curned 88 in June. He says he
“neavs thought the Honor System

and he liked the dress

ajored in physics and
and was a nuclear

custa

was great
code. He m
engineering

physicist during the Cold War.
Essig lives in Miamisburg, Ohio.

Lee D. Parker iL
45 still enjoying retirement’ In

Hampton, Va.

mom 1944—<>
David R. Embry
Gays “still here in my cave on
upper Galveston Bay,” in ‘Texas.

——— 1948 —<»

H. Petrie Mitchel!

turned 80 in May. As a World War
Il veteran, he attended W&L on
the G.I. Bill and worked in the
dorms and the mess hall. He
remembers with joy professors
William Morton and Rupert
Latture °15, as well as friend Buck
Bouldin °49, °51L. Mitchell and
his wife, Mary Belle, live in
Nashville, Tenn., and have six
children, 20 grandchildren and
one great-grandchild.

fm 1949--©>
Kenneth K. Lindel!
iS enjoying all four seasons while
living in Canton, N.Y.

Richard M. Yankee Jr.

and his wife, Susan, took a trip
to Corpus Christi, Texas, for
their granddaughter’s wedding.
The Yankees live in Signal
Mountain, ‘Tenn.

m— 1950:

Dr. John S. Chapman

S busy with his 17 grandchildren

and various boards and eleemosy-

"ary organizations. He says his

hometown of Dubuque, lowa,
a8 embarked on 4 major devel-

0 me ° ° ; x
Pment of its historic riverfront.
Ame and see!”

e- Howard L. Steele

iy Dok hood Soldier, detail-

a . ot of work in 43 coun-

Mink a re well. “T hope all my

3 r. a who have read it

tend . € writes, “and recom-
heir friends buy it.” He is

working on a sequel. Steele lives in
Fairfax, Va.

James T. Trundle
works with a church group that
mentors underprivileged students

in Camden, N.].

Sie (O81 >

Beauford L. Clarke Jr.

calls Sun City West, Ariz., his
home. He shares his days with a
standard schnauzer, Mickey’s
Mighty Apache. Clarke was back
at W&L last fall to share his grand-
daughter’s joy in starting her W&L
experience.

Richard P. Marcus

is proud that his grandson, Paul
Dampf ’03, graduated from W&L
Phi Beta Kappa. Marcus is retired
and lives in Vicksburg, Miss.

The Hon. Sol Wachtler ('52L )
has a novel due out in September
called Blood Brothers. He lives in
Manhasset, N.Y.

Hugh C. Newton
is back at work after recovering
from successful bypass surgery in

fall 2001. Newton lives in
Alexandria, Va. He visited with Gil
Bocetti °54 last fall.

O—.. . 1. 9 53 -— a>

C. Craighead Fritsche

retired from Raytheon Company
in December 2001, after 43 years
in the defense industry. Fritsche
followed his retirement with vaca-

 

 

tions in Florida, the Shenandoah
Valley and Mt. Rainier National
Park, and on a boat trip across
Europe from the Black Sea in
Romania to the North Sea in the
Netherlands. He lives in
Annandale, Va.

John D. Heard

and his wife, Pat, enjoy life in
Rockwall, ‘Texas. ‘They often visit
their daughter in Houston and
their son in southern California.

H. William Hoffman

is the author of Wild Thorn, his 13th
novel, published by _ Harper-
Collins. He lives in Charlotte
Court House, Va.

J. McHenry Tichenor Ill
reports that his company, Hispanic

 

‘lom Gardner 52 and his wife, Annie, made some new feathered

friends during a 12-day cruise to Hawaii and British Columbia.

 

As a young Marine during World
War IT, Wilbert Shafer 39 posed in
front of a barrage balloon at Parris
Island, S.C. He writes that the bal-

loon squadron was “ordered over-

seas—destination, Wake Island.
Wake Island fell. [The] organiza-
tion was then assigned to cover the
Panama Locks [Canal]. There for

almost one year for anti-aircraft

defense and ground defense.”

Broadcasting Corporation, is merg-
ing with Univision. He lives in

Hilton Head Island, S.C.

oat ka er

Warren T. Braham

sold his big house in the country
and moved to the beautiful little
town of Leesburg, Va., in close
proximity to his nine grandchil-
dren. Warren is looking forward to
spending more time at his beach
house at Emerald Isle, N.C., with
his wife, Anne, and hopes to see
everyone at the 50th class reunion
in 2004.

Dr. Herwig R.
Brandstetter
is president of the society of the
friends of the city museum of
Graz, the capital of the Austrian
province of Styria. It “became
Cultural Capital of Europe 2003’,”
he reports, “therefore, there is
quite a lot to do.”

Walter E. Smith

was on the faculty for a group psy-
chology conference held in
Belfast, Northern Ireland, the
third time he has participated. He
lives in Atlanta.

Dirken T. Voelker (’56L)
practices law with his son, Dow
’84, in Columbus, Ohio, and has no
plans to retire.

“O— 1 95 5 —_&»

Robert M. Cullers

fulfilled his dream of being the
youngest player on his over-70 bas-
ketball team. ‘They won the
Virginia state tournament in May
and played in the National Senior
Olympics in June. He also plays
softball with the Virginia Cracker-
jacks ‘Iravel Team and _ last

 

Leese WME SAX LLU Moun t

MA FAs Ge Ax eZ

I

October ended up in Des Moines,
Iowa, for the Senior Softball World
Series. Culler is working on a book,
Santa Glaus Lives, due out next
spring. Most of all, he enjoys his
four grandchildren.

William H. Forrest Jr.

says his son is now president and
CEO of his former company,
Pompei Tile Co. Inc. Forrest main-
tains a couple of real estate ven-
tures and is active in St. Andrews
Episcopal Church. He and his wife,
Joan, have four grandchildren, ages
5 months to 16 years. Forrest lives
in Newport News, Va.

David L. Foster

lives in Pittsburgh. His wife,
Barbara, died in March 2001. He
has three children and eight grand-
children.

Beauregard A. Redmond
held the inaugural exhibition of his
paintings at Kelsey’s Collection
Gallery in Naples, Fla., last
February.

O_ 1956 —Cc>

Dr. Aristides C.
Alevizatos

retired from the practice of internal
medicine in 1996, but continued
other hospital activities until 2000.
He and his wife, Dee, have
enjoyed travel; life on a small farm
with horses, steers and Jack
Russell terriers; and frequent visits
by their children and grandchil-
dren. ‘They live in Sparks, Md.

Henry J. Heymann

retired eight years ago from the
University of Pittsburgh, where he
taught scene design for 25 years.
Since then, a 150-seat, thrust-stage
theater has been named after him,
and he designed its opening show.
He has just designed “Much Ado
About Nothing,” which he
designed for W&L in 1956, for the
opening of Pitt’s $2 million reno-
vated main stage.

A -1.915/7 ~—S>
Dr. Alfred J. Magoline Jr.
is making steady recovery after his
bilateral knee replacement surgery
last January. He retired from med-
ical practice in August 2001 and is
now spending more time in
Florida and on the golf course.

John D. Marsh (’59L)

is corporate secretary and board
member of the Virginia Regional
‘Transportation Authority (VR'TA),

which has its corporate headquar-
ters in Purcellville, Va. He retired
as mayor of Purcellville in June
2002 after eight years.

Oo. {85s Cc»

Dr. Irwin R. Berman

Says he is “is enjoying perpetual
"September afternoons” and there
is lots to do, even despite a lack of
cash flow. He lives on Saint Simons

Island, Ga.

Randolph W. Lunsford
spent December 2002 and January
2003. in Bogota, Colombia,
researching and exploring the
teaching of English to Latin
American students. He teaches the
English language at Clark High
School, Las Vegas, and at the
Southern Nevada Community
College.

William C. Miller (’6IL)

and his wife, Holly, spent two
weeks in Malta last January, after
visiting Mexico’s Copper Canyon
last September. ‘The couple now
have time to travel and plan to
make the most out of it. ‘They live
in San Diego.

“o_ 4959 —<>

Edward F. Halsell Jr.

retired from Merrill Lynch as first
vice president of investments after
working there for 44 years. His
career began with an interview
with the company during spring
break of his senior year in 1959. He
plans to travel with his wife, Randi,
visiting their three grandchildren
and spending time in_ their
Colorado home. Halsell lives in

Dallas.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr. (GIL)
was chosen to be a reporter of deci-
sions for the Court of Appeals of
Virginia. He is a professor of law at
the University of Richmond.

“2. 4 8 60 —_—”

Dr. Douglas E. Barnard

retired after 35 years as an anesthes!-
ologist. He now enjoys golf, fishing,
traveling and spending time with
his family. He lives in Beverly, Mass.

John W. Clark Jr.

Says “life is good,” his health is
fine, and he’s practicing a little law,
playing golf and traveling. Last
year he visited ‘[ahiti, Italy,
Hawaii, Canada and southern
California. He lives in Dallas.

yi Was ee "A ee Bek oe ae

 

 

William C. Loeffler Jr.
retired from Loeffler Ketchum &
Mountjoy, the Charlotte advertis-
ing agency he founded in 1981. He
and his wife, Christine, live in
Davidson, N.C., where he contin-
ues to work for several clients.

Coie § HEY “a
Peter T. Straub (’64L)
is happy that two of his children
got married this year and one grad-

uated from college. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

OO 1962 —_&»
David W. Benn
has enjoyed semi-retirement the
last four years with a mix of private
company directorships/consultan-
cies and community activities. He

    
     
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
  
   

is the national chairman of
Australian-American Fulb a
Commission. He enjoyed sceill ,
number of classmates at the ail
reunion and expects connect
to increase by spending col
months at the house he bull
Wintergreen Resort, not far
Lexington.

ne

Paul Clemenceay
enjoys life in Houston, togeth
with his wife, Lisa, and their
young children. He feels forty
that his work allows him frequer
trips to Paris to assist his comps .
office there.

Terrence E. Fohs
retired from IBM after 32 y
with the company and moved

  

W&L Homecoming Oct. 9-I!I, 2003

oe e

There's nothing like fall in Virginia to call W&L al
back home, and this year’s Homecoming, Oct. 9-11, promises
be memorable. The weekend features the Athletic Hall
Fame induction and honors our Five-Star Generals and
Cluster Classes of 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. Get a first le D
the new John W. Elrod University Commons, enjoy enlight

exciting athletic match-ups. On Saturday attend a Mink
featuring Loose Change and a Virginia wine tasting and b
cue to the sounds of Old School Freight Train. Package and
carte pricing for the weekend are available. Find out more,
register today by visiting alumni.wlu.edu or contacting

alumni office at 540/458-8464.

    
 
  
 
 
 
 

ing seminars and campus updates and cheer on the Generals

 

Was

h

i © g too nm and

Li ens HEE eke Lh Ustad t

Wa Ae Ge AZ

I

 

  

hh

s that he and his
facing one of the
of their matr-

ta. He write
Sandy, “are
t challenges

Adan
wie,

bigges her they shall
> a olf. ‘Toget © =
piage—S"

Russ
ames A. Rt seb
r senior vice president of
i

Aggregate Industries. He —
| his term as chairman of the
Ted for Associated Builders and
Contractors in the metro
Washington area. In February,
Russ became the chairman of the
board of the National Ready
Mixed Concrete Association. He
and his wife, Rita, live in
Stevensville, Md., and have four
grandchildren.

mm 19 63 —_-<

Thomas E. Bower

and his wife, Christina, celebrated
their 30th wedding anniversary.
He was sorry to have missed his
40th class reunion. His twin sons
graduated from college this spring.
Bower lives in Towson, Md.

Robert D. Hart Jr.

has two sons who graduated from
W&L, Daniel 93 and Doug ’97.
His daughter, Annie Fair, graduat-
ed from Hollins in 1999. He and
his wife, Anne, enjoy traveling.
Hart is still active with the practice
of law and with the Pensacola, Fla.,
community.

J. Holmes Morrison (’67L)
attended his 40th reunion. As a
member of the Shepherd Advisory

Board, he is spreading the word
about the wonderful program
under the leadership of Professor
Harlan Beckley.

Joseph L. Topinka
changed his lifestyle from stress to

golf when he moved from Chicago

to Raphine, Va.

N. Dudley Warwick Jr.

has been in the fields of real estate
and appraisal for the past 32 years.
He lives in Flourtown, Pa.

Kee ft Oe sa

Dr. Warren P. Hopkins
retired from the University of
Richmond as emeritus professor of
psychology and emeritus director
of psychological services. In his 26
years there, he was twice selected
as ODK University Professor of
the Year. He and his wife, Jane,
have two daughters and one grand-
child. Music, travel and gardening
are continuing interests. “Life is
good,” says Hopkins, who lives in
Richmond.

John Y. Person Jr.

says that he is still “hanging in
there” and envies his retired class-
mates. He lives in Norfolk, Va.

Spencer R. Stouffer

lives on Hilton Head Island, S.C.
He has had five grandchildren in
the last two years, with the most
recent named Spencer R. Stouffer
Ill. “Imagine three of them on
earth at the same time,” he writes.

fee Oe, ee a Ae ee ee ee | ee

 

t.. § SEs —-c>

Dr. J. William F. Holliday
taught a course for the 2003
Summer Scholars program entitled
The Earth-Universe Relationship:
Widening the Circle, an inquiry
into how the new findings of con-
temporary science affect the sense
of who we are, why we are here and
the nature of the universe itself.
Holliday received his Ph.D. in
transformational ecology in 1997.
He lives in Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Dr. George M. Sanders

is delighted to report that his first
grandchild was born July 17, 2002.
Sanders lives in Cherry Hill, N_J.

“o...- | SBE ——_c>

Thornton M. Henry ('69L)
took a mission team to Merida in
the Mexican Yucatan to expand a
church sanctuary. Next year he
plans to return to the Amazon in
Brazil, where he hopes to work on
a large classroom building at a
Bible institute. His daughter, Ruth
Henry ’97, married in June 2002
and lives in San Francisco. He lives
in West Palm Beach, Fla.

Dr. M. Neely Young Il
watched his son Carter graduate in
June, “ending eight straight years
of parents’ weekends.” Young’s
father, Neely Young Sr. ’43, and his
older son, Josh ’99, were also there.
Young lives in Atlanta.

Wolfe Wows Lexington and Chicago

 

See w . . '
hat you miss when you don’t return to Lexington for Homecoming? In October 2002, alumni from

195
be | gathered in front of Lee Chapel before attending the inaugural talk of the Class of 1951 Thomas K.
Olfe Jr. °51 Lecture

Mer, Wolfe received

Series by none other than their classmate Tom Wolfe (center, front row). This sum-

another honor: the Chicago Tribune's 2003 Literary Prize for lifetime achievement.

“Oo... 1968 —“—>

Dr. Paul A. Brower

will function as CEO of his urology
group, which merged with another
and now hosts nine doctors. He
also has been appointed to the
American Urological Association.
His oldest daughter, Meredith, is a
student at Scripps College and is
applying to medical school. Her
younger sister, Lauren, is in the
pre-vet program at the University
of San Diego. Brower lives in
Laguna Beach, Calif.

Richard W. Cocke

will hold a one-man show of his art
at the Mud House in downtown
Charlottesville in October 2003.

Charles C. Lewis ('7IL)
welcomed his first grandchild,
Brynn Dollins Lavander, on June
17, 2001. Lewis is the chairman of
the North Carolina General
Statutes Commission. He contin-
ues as professor of law at the
Campbell University School of
Law in Buies Creek, N.C., where
he has been teaching since 1978.

Richard E. Rivera

was promoted to president and
CEO of Darden Restaurants Inc.,
the owner and operator of the Red
Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama
Breeze and Smokey Bones BBQ
restaurants. He lives in Orlando, Fla.

Dr. Robert M. Wein

is still delivering babies in
Greensboro, N.C. He has four
grandchildren.

o 9 6 ES .._ >

Richard E. Kramer
published his first online essay,
“The Sculptural Drama’: Tennes-
see Williams’ Plastic Theatre,” at
www.tennesseewilliamsstudies.
org and has done research and fact-
checking for The Selected Letters of
Lennessee Wilhams. He participated
in a staged reading of an early
Williams play, “Candles to the
Sun,” where he was “cast as a
drunken Irish bigot—somewhat
against type, I trust.” Kramer lives
in New York City.

James J. Livesay

has been a cardiovascular surgeon
at the ‘Iexas Heart Institute for
more than 20 years. He and his
father were honored for their work
at the American Heart Associ-
ation’s Heart Ball in Houston.

 

W a

S

h

gq to mn and

 

Ta.

Ms At SA FZ

I

Auk oUoOM Ne AGE Ow. s

 

In the fall of 1998, Preston Browning '5I got the scouting report from his wife, Ann, who had just
returned from a search through western Massachusetts for a place the couple might move after he
retired from 23 years of teaching
English at the University of [linois at
Chicago. The least likely possibility
she described was a dilapidated,
trash-filled carriage house on a wood-
ed hillside in Ashland, Mass. But
then Ms. Browning awoke in the
middle of the night convinced they
should turn the carriage house into a
writers’ retreat.

“IT thought she was bonkers,”
her husband recalled, “because the
place was an incredible junkyard.”

 

Nevertheless, Ms. Browning,
with one M.A. in psychology and a second in architecture, persuaded him the project was viable.
So in February 1999, using her plans as guidance, a contractor began transforming the abandoned
building into Wellspring House. “Wellspring” is the name of a home the Brownings once owned
in Loudoun County, Va., and the word suggests a place where creativity flows.

As the contractor hammered, the Brownings made their annual pilgrimage to Central America
to do volunteer work. He said studying U.S. diplomatic history and Spanish at Washington and Lee
led to his interest in Central American social activism. In fact, he’s proud of having been arrested
twice in the 1980s for protesting U.S. government policies in the region. Currently, the Brownings
are involved with an artists’ cooperative in Solentiname, Nicaragua.

When the Brownings returned from their 1999 trip, Wellspring House’s transformation was
nearly complete, and they officially opened for guests that September. Now in its fourth full April-

to-December session, the retreat welcomes visiting

 

. artists to five bedrooms, a sunroom, an extensive
Browning calculates lity liv one ;
. ibrary, a living room with a fireplace, a communa
Wellspring House has hosted " 8
kitchen, a patio surrounded with rose bushes, and
over 200 poets and writers
gardens. Browning admits a passion for growing veg-

etables. “When I’m not writing, I do a lot of garden-

 

of fiction and non-fiction,

many of whom have returned |
ing,” he said.

more than once.
Browning calculates Wellspring House has

 

 

 

hosted over 200 poets and writers of fiction and non-
fiction, many of whom have returned more than once. Back for her fourth stay, poet Daniela
Gioseffi, editor of Women on War: An International Collection of Writings from Antiquity to the Present, says
she’s drawn by Wellspring’s natural setting and the modest size of the retreat, which offers “just
enough society without it being overwhelming.”

“The other nice thing is that the host and hostess are so literary themselves,” Gioseffi said.
“There’s always something to be learned from Preston and Ann because they’re always so alive
with things.”

In addition to hosting meetings and symposiums at Wellspring House, Ann Browning writes
poetry, and Preston Browning works on short fiction. “I’ve just begun in the past couple of years to
feel serious about it,” he said. He plans to publish a book of stories by next year.

“At 74, I feel blessed to be alive and to have a family—a wife, four children and three grand-
children,” he reflected, “and blessed to find a way of being retired that’s so absolutely fulfilling for

someone who’s spent his lifetime in literature—to be surrounded by writers.” =» —Laura Parsons

 

Dr. Brittain McJunkin

Is working part-time at
Greenbrier Clinic
Sulphur Springs, W.Va,
years of gastroenterology
in Charleston, W.Va.
and his wife, Judy, divide thei
time between Charleston and hist
toric Lewisburg, W.Va. If you com
to the Greenbrier Resort he
writes, “Please drop by (and havi
comprehensive physical exam!),”

the
In White

after 23
Practice
McJunkin

O—__ 1 9 79 — ee
W. Joseph Dozier Jr.
is happy to announce that his
daughter, Sarah, has been accepted
as a member of the class of 2007
‘The family live in Charlotte, N.C. |

Bruce S. Samuels

was proud to see his oldest son,
Booth, graduate from W&L in June.
Samuels lives in New Orleans.

Cerald W. Weedon

was elected president of the
Association of Defense Trial
Attorneys, an international group
of independent defense lawyers,
for 2003-04. He works at Marks
Gray PA. in Jacksonville, Fla.

“O— 1 97 1 —S

John M. McCardell Jr.

was elected chairman of the
Division III Presidents’ Council of
the NCAA for 2003. ‘The council is
the principal governing body on
matters of athletics policy for the
more than 400 institutions that
belong to Division HI. He lives in
Middlebury, Vt.

Calvert S. Whitehurst
pursues his interest in theater and
was featured in a local production
of Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal.” He
had a chance to visit with his class-
mate Mike Kirshbaum and his
wife, Regina. Whitehurst is a gOv-
ernment affairs manager in the
Washington office of ‘Textron.

OO 1972——e

Frank B. Bazzel

was proud to see his son, Frank
Bazzel Jr. ’02, graduate cum laude
from W&L with a B.A. in econom
ics. His second son, Johnson, © a
member of the class of 2006.

Edward C. Levin

completed his 26th year at Allstate
Insurance Company, W
serves at the supervisins —
counsel in Suffolk County, N.Y.

James M. Stege

with
has spent more than five years

 

Washin g top * and

MO Be Ge A SZ

I

Ne g

a

 

 

5 Fish Camp on the St.
er in Satsuma, iy la., and

aths with Reynolds, Smith
e ‘ill an architectural firm, 1n
ik Elle, Fla. He says class-
ol Scott Wood helps him with
ma

his golf game.

Sregbone
John’s Riv

paul E. Weeks  —
as promoted to senior manager
foe Raytheon Integrated Defense
; 1s Co., located in ‘Tewks-

system
a Mass. He celebrated his 10th
anniversary with the company,

s been the leader in

where he ha eae :
advanced systems engineering an
modeling.

business/enterprise
Weeks resides in Hudson, N.H.

—_  1973—<>

pr. Robert A. Silverman
was elected president of the
Washington Dermatological Soci-
ety. He lives in McLean, Va.

aD 1974—<>

jeffrey D. Burke

was appointed vice chair of the
Commonwealth Catholic Charities
board of directors, located in
Richmond. Burke is an executive
vice president with Bon Secours
HealthPartners.

Keith J. Silverman
teaches philosophy at Danville
Community College, while he is
continuing graduate studies in phi-
losophy at Vanderbilt University.
He lives in Danville, Va.

C. Watson Tebo Jr.

is a sales representative for
IMPATH Inc., a consulting labora-
tory for diagnostic, therapeutic,
prognostic and predictive informa-
tion for cancer. He was elected to
the board of directors for Brighton
Academy in Baton Rouge, La.,
where he lives,

Douglas M. Thomas ("77L)
ports that the family business,
Thomas Cadillac Jaguar in
artford, Conn., received a Family
usiness of the Year citation from
the University of Connecticut’s
business School. Calvert Thomas
a Beerted the business in
_ is wife, Margaret, and
“ ti Doug Thomas joined
Ss five years later.

q Mm 1976 __o.
Obert L. Amsler Jr,
ey studies at the

in c..; heological Seminary

a a in January 2002. He

tion Part-time for the Persecu-

foject ~=Foundation in

Warrenton and serves two days a
week at the Heritage Presbyterian
Church. Amsler and his wife, Julie,
celebrated their 25th marriage
anniversary last December.

John L. Cray Jr.

leads the Arby’s Charity Tour, a
nationwide golf tour that has raised
over $10 million for youth mentor-
ing organizations since 1996.

Kenneth J. Holda

reports that his daughter, Kristine,
is a member of the class of 2006
and of the University’s swim team.
Holda lives in Strongsville, Ohio.

William E. Thompson IV
resides in Vienna on Maryland’s
eastern shore. He has started a sail-
ing school on the Choptank River
near Cambridge, where he offers
sailing instruction, sailboat rentals
and a children’s sailing camp, Wet
Adventures.

OO. —. 4 7.2 ..-G>

Charles V. Brown Ill

and his wife, Karen, enjoy their
many trips to Lexington to watch
their daughter, Kristen ’05, play
field hockey and lacrosse. This
year, she will be the captain of the
field hockey team. The Browns
live in Catonsville, Md.

Mark W. Hampton

attended his 25th reunion in May.
He lives in Parkville, Mo.

 

Stephen J. Marzo

joined ‘Tom Group, a media com-
pany in Hong Kong, as finance
director. He says it’s an “incredible
and exciting opportunity to work
in a fast-growing sector as [the
area] opens itself to external influ-
ence. ‘The most satisfying fun,
however, is my three sons.”

John P. Stafford

is director of business develop-
ment at the architectural firm of
Apostolou. Associates Inc. in
Pittsburgh.

Stephen D. Stahl
was named dean of the school of
arts and sciences at St. Bonaven-

ture University, N.Y.

Derren: SE OL scene >

Steven L. Higgs

has been re-certified in consumer
bankruptcy law by the American
Board of Certification. Higgs is a
partner in the firm of King &
Higgs P.-C. in Roanoke.

Dr. Lucien T. Megna

is the chairman of the research
committee for the Washington
Academy of Family Physicians and
the medical director of Leslie
Canyon Family Medicine, and was
named Physician of the Year by
Rep. ‘Tom DeLay (R-Texas). He is
also a member of the Physicians’
Advisory Board for the National
Republican Party. He and his wife,
Jean, have two children, Claire, 5,

and Samuel, 2. They live in
Kennewick, Wash.

co § 9S ¢ —- Lh >

C. Penn Owen III

was elected to a three-year term on
the board of trustees for the Dixon
Gallery and Gardens in Memphis.
Owen is the managing partner of
Bowdre Plantation in Tunica County

and serves as the president of the
board of Memphis College of Art.

“o—- 4 98 2 —__-c>

Stewart A. Hinckley

and his W&L roommate Bobby
Schmidt ’82 jumped on a plane to
see Bruce Springsteen in Albany,
N.Y. Hinckley realized that
Schmidt still snores as much as he
did in college. Hinckley lives in
Manakin-Sabot, Va.

—__ 1983 ——<>

Steven D. Corbeille
semi-retired in June after 19 years
of operating his own design/drap-
ery business. He hopes to spend
more time with his children,
Michelle, 9, and Dru, 6, and plans
on pursuing triathlons. He com-
pleted the Washington Marathon
in March. The family live in
Darnestown, Md.

Michael M. Cregory

received his Ph.D. from Arizona
State University in December
2002. His dissertation was entitled
“The Incorporation of Denmark,
Virginia, into the World Economy:

Chris Lee '71 Break s New Grou nd i n Co nstructio ~—— . :

B. Christopher Lee ’71 at Lincoln
Financial Field, the new home of
the Philadelphia Eagles football
team. As a shareholder of Jacoby
Donner P.C., a Philadelphia law
firm, construction lawyer Lee and
his client KUD International, an
international construction-man-
agement company, crafted a novel
arrangement that shifted the bur-
den of overseeing the stadium’s
the

construction

away from

 

Eagles. Usually, the owner of the stadium oversees the project and its accompanying complexities. For

this project, KUD played that role. “The system creates true partnering between the owner, architect

and labor,” Lee says. International soccer teams Manchester United and FC Barcelona, followed by

Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, initiated the new stadium before the Eagles kicked off the

first season in their new home.

 

 

Wa s

h

ie ete n ana

A Historical Archaeological
Study.” The study draws heavily
upon data collected during the
High Hollows archaeological pro-
ject, directed by Professor John M.
McDaniel ’64 as the Spring Dig
class from 1979-1984. Gregory and
his wife, Jane, live in Milwaukee,
Wis., with their two sons, Malcolm
and Jackson.

a 1984 —<>

Kevin Y. Berger

works for Stryker Instruments as a
regional sales representative work-
ing out of Roanoke. “I am thrilled
to be living in this part of Virginia
again,” he writes.

John P. Domeika

was promoted to senior vice presi-
dent and general counsel at
Premera Blue Cross, an insurance
company based in Seattle, where
he lives with his wife, Hilary, and
son, Jack.

John A. Sanders Jr.

is trying to convince his half-broth-
er to attend W&L so he can have
an excuse to visit Lexington.
Sanders lives in Washington.

oO 1985 —S>

Peter M. Wright

is a shareholder’ in the
Birmingham, Ala., office of Sirote
& Pertmutt, P.C., and a member of
the estate-planning practice group.

OO 1987 — <>

Charles C. Nusbaum Jr.

and his wife, Kim, enjoyed the hol-
iday alumni gathering in down-
town Denver and look forward to
hearing from alumni traveling to

and through the city.

Dr. Andrew M. Reibach

is assistant director of the
Washington Hospital Family

Practice Residency Program in
Washington, Pa., where he teach-
es obstetrics to 24 medical resi-
dents. He and his wife, Stacey,
reside in McMurray, Pa., together
with their children, Stephen, 10,
and Rachel, 7.

W. Hildebrandt

Surgner Jr. ('94L)

joined ‘Tredegar Corp. as vice pres-
ident and general counsel in
December 2002. He lives in
Richmond.

Paul A. Youngman

completed his Ph.D. in German
literature at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and is

an assistant professor of German
language and culture at UNC
Charlotte.

oO 1988 —o—>

Henry M. Sackett IV

is a senior account representative
with N.B. Handy Co., covering
central North Carolina and south-
ern Virginia. He _ lives in
Greensboro, N.C., together with
his wife, Lucy, and daughters
Ansley, 7, and Molly, 4.

Bradford L. Watkins
was named the regional president,
metro Atlanta, of Flag Bank.

David W. Weaver

lives with his wife, Ellen, in
Alpharetta, Ga. He has worked with
MetLife in the real estate invest-
ment department for 10 years.

oO 1989 —S&>

Brenton Sewell Bean

joined Withrow, McQuade &
Olsen, a small law firm in Atlanta.
His wife, Amy 7°93, returned to
Bristol-Myers Squibb part-time,
but spends most of her time with
their daughter, Katie, 2.

Courtney Ann Coyle

was appointed to San Diego’s
Commission for Arts and Culture.
Her legal cases have been profiled
on “ABC World News ‘Tonight”
and the History Channel. She lives
in La Jolla, Calif., with her husband,
Steve McDonald. They visit Baja
California Sur whenever they can.

James A. Linza Jr.

is in his third year as a trigonometry
teacher and head varsity baseball
coach at Mt. Vernon High School in
Alexandria, Va. He also serves as the
president of his 28-team regional
coaches association and works as an
instructor for UVA baseball. Linza
lives in Vienna, Va., with his wife,
Julianne, and their children,
Caroline, 4, and Jimmie, 2.

Cc. Manoli Loupassi

was re-elected as a member of the
Richmond City Council last
November.

Amy Pickett Marks

lives in Pittsburgh, where she is
staying home and taking care of
her three boys, Jacob, 9, Lucas, 6,
and Noah, 1.

Erin Cosby Plumb
celebrated the first birthday of her
daughter, Grace. The family live in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

 

 

Richard S. Redfoot

passed the architecture registration
exam and received his North
Carolina architectural license.
Together with his wife, Leslie, he
enjoys homeschooling their chil-
dren, Max and Rosy. They live in
Cary, N.C.

K. Craig Smith Jr.

is an attorney with Smith & John
in Shreveport, La. The practice is
limited to federal criminal defense
and personal injury litigation. He
and his wife, Mary Ann, have three
children, Craig III, 5, Jack, 3, and
Mary Kathryn, 15 months.

“1990 —<—>

James C. Ambrosini
presented a paper he co-authored,
“Requirements Engineering and
the Social Context of Work,” at an
international conference of sociolo-
gists. He works for KPMG and is
researching how to use techniques
from sociology to perform business
modeling. He lives in Morris
Plains, N.].

Charles J. Ameno

joined Bank One Corp. as vice
president and relocation group
manager and will oversee all
employee mobility programs.

was the first time we had a ‘so-where-are-you-from
versation.” Pretty soon they discovered they had at
in common: Washington and Lee. His comrade in ¢

FitzGerald 91 (right).

In March 2002, while stationed in Bosnia wit
National Guard unit, Greg Lukanuski ’85 (left) met U
fee with an officer from the Mississippi National Guar
been working together for six months,” said Lukant S

   
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

Ameno will maintain
in the Chicago co
and the Columbus
tions center,

dual off
Tporate cen
> Ohio, opel

Reid T. Campbell 2
was named managing dir j
White Mountains Advisors Tal

an investment and capital 7
ment arm of Bermuda-based Wh ite
Mountain Insurance Group

He lives in New Canaan, Coal

Eileen Labashinsky Hein
is earning her master’s in mole
biology at California State Uniy,
sity, Northridge, specializing

cancer research. She and her hus-
band, Alan 90, have two daugh-
ters, Kelli, 11, and Shana, 10, They
live in West Hills, Calif.

ca

Dr. Robert E. Martin
finished his interventional cardiol-
ogy fellowship at the Medical.
College of Virginia and will join
Dr. Jeff Mandak ’87 at the Moffir
Heart & Vascular Group in
Pennsylvania. ;

Timothy R. Place
accepted the position of defensi
coordinator at Urbana Universi
in Ohio and became assistant he:
football coach last February.

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

Wa

Ss

hi Gg Ue nw wae

6 bc ME ON Oulart

WAS A Gr OA

I

 

 

 

 

—

>>

comer,

ao 199 1

dy
isto her S. Ber pe
Se cholder in the Birming-
: Ala., office of Sirote &
as PC. Berdy’s practice

utt,
es on the representation of
— in all areas of civil litigation,
clie

focusing primarily on products lia-
bility and commercial litigation.
Ht)

patrick J. Padden 7

is in his second year as a vice pres-
ident of commercial lending for
Ipvin Union Bank in Louisville,
Ky. “If you Te in the area, please

7”? ites.
stop by, he write

Janice Ferman Straske
is “busy at home with our tribe of

small people” in ‘lampa, Fla.

1992»
Lewis Peyton Chapman Ill
is a shareholder in the law firm
Rushton, Stakely, Johnston &
Garnett PA. in Montgomery, Ala.
His practice focuses on medical
malpractice. He and his wife,
Melissa, have two daughters, Lucy

and Anna.

Caroline Wight Donaldson
was named vice president of the
Adanta office of Counsel On Call.

John A. McCallum

ran for an open seat in Georgia’s
6th Congressional District, which
covers most of suburban Atlanta.
He is executive director of the
TAG Foundation. He and his wife,
Heather, have two sons, John, i.
and James, 2.

Almena McCowin Morgan
and her husband, Henry, moved to
Point Clear, Ala., in February 2002.

Jason D. Robertson
completed his master’s degree in
Chinese medicine three years ago
and opened a practice in Louis-
ville, Ky. Last year he moved to
Beijing, where he is completing a
one-year internship in acupunc-
ture and Chinese herbal medicine
With hopes of teaching American
a, about this fascinating
4 eh Asian studies major
certainly paid off.”

shristopher C. Swann
ha assistant principal
_ Pper School at Holy
= Episcopal School in
_, Where he has taught for
. = seven years. He continues
~~. senior English courses and
as the English department

Christian Wiman ’88 has been
named the eleventh editor of
POETRY magazine, the oldest and
best-known poetry magazine in
the world. He was previously a vis-

iting assistant

Northwestern University, and has
taught at Stanford University and
Lynchburg College. He received a
Ruth Lilly Fellowship in 1994
from the Modern Poetry Associ-
ation, which recently changed its

name and expanded its mission as

professor at

 

 

 

a private operating foundation, The Poetry Foundation. Wiman graduated from W&L with a B.A. in

English. His collection of poems, The Long Home, won the 1998 Nicholas Roerich Poetry Prize. Read

more about Wiman’s appointment at www.poetrymagazine.org.

chair. His wife, Kathy Ferrell-
Swann 793, and their dachshund
are doing quite well. Kathy contin-
ues to work as a psychologist in pri-
vate practice with children and
adolescents. Christopher plans to
finish his Ph.D. in creative writing
at Georgia State this year.

FI gg k>
Ramona Franks
Hagmaier
has been elected to serve a two-
year term on the board of Big
Brothers Big Sisters in Mobile, Ala.

Joshua H. Levinson

and his wife, Kara, moved to
Baltimore in June 2002 to open a
running specialty store called
Charm City Run. Their son,
Benjamin, turned 2 in December.

Dr. Stewart M. Long III

is a chief resident in surgery at the
University of Virginia. He and his
wife, Melinda, have two children,
Stewart IV and Harrison.

Hui-chu Mou

joined Eagle Consulting Group as
an accounting software consultant.
She lives in Astoria, N.Y.

O— 1 994 —-S»

Justin J. Bakule

proposed to Joanna Eickman
(Kenyon College 94) on top of Mt.
Katahdin in Maine, the northern
terminus of the Appalachian ‘Trail.
He lives in Cambridge, Mass.

Justin R. McNaull

is a national spokesman for AAA,
while he continues working part-
time on an M.B.A. from the
University of Maryland. He lives in
Vienna, Va., together with his wife,
Rebecca, and their son, Caleb, 1.

Carlin Jones Miller
graduated in May with a Ph.D. in
educational psychology with con-
centrations in school psychology
and pediatric neuropsychology
from the University of Georgia.

co. 19905 Cc»

John W. Cox

finished law school at University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and
relocated to Alexandria, Va., with
his wife, Elizabeth.

Oo... ¢ 9 9 6B —_— <>

Kara Kimzey Fleming

and her husband, Bryan, celebrat-
ed the second birthday of their
daughter, Kalin, on Feb. 21. The
family live in Houston, where
Fleming enjoys full-time mother-
hood. ‘Together with her brother,
Shane Kimzey 792, she finished
two marathons.

Samuel H. Frazier Jr.

is restoring and reselling old hous-
es. He also is making a short film,
“so look for "Don’t Make Eye
Contact’ at your local film festival.”
He lives in Birmingham, Alla.

John D. Harding
is finishing his residency in inter-
nal medicine at the Hospital of the

University of Pennsylvania and
will start his cardiology fellowship
next year.

Julie Ayers McLeod

accepted a job as a ‘Title I research
specialist for the Pinnelas (Fla.)
County Schools and is enjoying it
immensely.

Jennifer Fern Stec

works for IBM. She and her hus-
band, ‘Tim, live in Lexington, S.C.,
with their daughter, Hannah, 2.

db tent 4:22 Bite
Heath B. Acuff

is pursuing a Ph.D. in cancer biolo-
gy at Vanderbilt University.

Jonathan P. Cardner

is in his second year of medical
school at the Medical University of
South Carolina in Charleston and
is “loving it.”

Maria L. Hardin

is back in Charlotte, N.C., where
she is working for her dad, Tom
Hardin ’67, and volunteering at a
local theater company. “I have a
great apartment and a fabulous
dog. Life is good.”

Bindi T. Patel

received her master’s degree in
environmental economics and pol-
icy and is an environmental socioe-
conomist for a consulting company
in San Francisco. “I am enjoying
this city to its fullest.”

 

 

Laura C. Perry

owns a home in Augusta, Ga., and
joined Hull Storey Retail Group, a
commercial real estate, retail
acquisition and development firm,
as marketing director.

Susan E. Prevost
teaches first grade in Ashland, Va.

Katherine L. Sawyer

began a master’s program in clinical
mental health counseling at Lesley
University in Cambridge, Mass.

Alvin M. Townley Ill

is a major gifts officer in W&Ls
development office and looks for-
ward to seeing alumni on the road
and hosting friends who visit
Lexington.

co eos ——<.>

Caroline B. Amport

will start graduate studies in public
policy at John Hopkins University
this fall.

Jennifer C. Brady

is a certified internal auditor and
has a new job in the internal audit
department of Freddie Mac in
‘Tysons Corner, Va.

Andrew M. Ruppar

is a technology consultant with
Accenture in Atlanta. He ts earning
his master’s degree at the London
School of Economics and Political
Science. He writes that “going tub-
ing in London just isn’t the same as
it is in Goshen. ‘The British teach-
ing system and lack of real office
hours are a shock after W&L. ...
However, both London and LSE
still have a few things to offer.”

David H. Watson

is consulting with Capital Advisory
Services in Washington. He lives
in Vienna, Va.

O—.+ $689 C>

Christopher B. Looney
invites alumni to visit him in

Chapel Hill, N.C.

Kelley Herring Myerberg

lives in Chapel Hill, N.C., where
she is studying interior design and
her husband, Josh ’00, is attending
business school. ‘he couple are
surrounded by many W&L alumni.

Jennifer J. Stone

lives in Washington, where she 1s
attending the School for Foreign
Service at Georgetown University,
working on a master’s in national
security studies. She ts living with

Brooke Easton ’99, who will be
entering the same program at GU.

M. Bryan Wheeler

is stationed in the Republic of
Korea, about 20 km from the
DMZ. He is a platoon leader
responsible for about 30 people and
$7 million in taxpayer equipment.

<Q 2000 &>

David J. Damiani

is the online sports columnist for
American Enterprise magazine and
is a staff tax accountant for
Eggleston Smith PC. in
Williamsburg, Va.

Meredith Welch Devine

and her husband, John ’00, bought
a house in Athens, Ga. She spent
the summer conducting research
in Uganda on illegal logging in the
Mabira Forest Reserve. He 1s
working as a transportation planner
for Athens-Clarke County.

Renita C. Perkins

is pursuing her doctorate in clinical
psychology at the Chicago School
of Professional Psychology. Upon
graduation, she hopes to work in
community mental health, assist-
ing underserved populations
including the chronically mentally
ill and low-income families.

Bennett R. Thompson
moved to Boston last August,
where he works for Heritage
Partners, a private equity fund.

O..- 2O04 1G?

V. Michel Marcoux

lives in Washington and works as a
reporter for The Tan Sheet, a trade
publication for the pharmaceutical
drug industry.

Jeffrey B. Paul

is on assignment with GE Real
Estate in Paris, working on
human-resource process digitiza-
tion. He has enjoyed his stay so far
and is looking forward to traveling
around Europe and sightseeing in
Paris.

Thomas S. Ragsdale IV
is in his third year as a senior ana-

lyst with Cobblestone Advisors in
Richmond.

Rebecca B. Smith
teaches special education in middle
school. She lives in Columbia, S.C.

Noelle C. Beckman
is working on her applications to

A L U MN Tt N E W S

 

graduate schools and hopes to
begin in the fall of 2003.

MARRIAGES

The Hon. Robert A. Carpentier
'77 to Cynthia Piscopo on June 22,
2002, in Glen Cove, N.Y. In atten-
dance were Warren Wolfe ’77,
James Houston °77, Maynard
McCorkle ’77, Buddy Norris ’75L,
Paul Marasciullo °85 and Nancy
Pavlovic °94. Carpentier serves as
counsel to the law firm of Albanese
& Albanese L.L.P. in Garden City,
N.Y. His wife works in electronic
equity sales for Bloomberg
‘Iradebook L.L.C. in New York
City. The couple reside in Port
Washington, N.Y.

Clarke H. Morledge '85 to Lisa
Marae Patterson on Nov. 18, 2001,
in Bermuda. ‘The couple reside in
Williamsburg, Va., where he is a
network engineer at the College of
William and Mary, and she is a pri-
vate vocal instructor.

Brian M. Root '92 to Kimberly
O’Brien on Nov. 9, 2002, in Vinton,
Va. Root is the managing editor of
the Martinsville Bulletin, and she 1s
a reporter for Zhe Roanoke Times.
‘The couple live in Roanoke with
their two dogs.

Carrie Eubanks '93 to Steve
Butcher on Oct. 24, 2002, on
Gibney Beach, St. Johns, U.S.
Virginia Islands. In attendance were
Marjorie King Reynolds 93, Donna
Groot Taylor 94 and Keith Pelt ’93.
‘The couple live in Warren, Vt.

Margaret Brown '93 to Dave
Morland on April 27, 2002, in
Virginia Beach. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Carrie Eubanks Butcher, Jen
Singleton Wittlinger, Keith Pelt
and Kirsten and Charlie Lockyer.
Amy Adamson Melton ’93 and
Mark Melton ’92 also were pre-
sent. ‘he couple live in Broome,
western Australia, where they are
building a house. She teaches high
school English, while he manages
a marine dealership.

Susan Deutsch '95 to Bob Budd
on April 5 in Georgetown. Law
professor and former cross country
coach Jim Phemister was a reader.
Dasha Hermosilla 95 and Natalie
Messmore Stevens ’97 attended.
‘The couple live in Ann Arbor,
Mich., where he is working on his
M.B.A. from the University of
Michigan, and she is a financial
consultant with AlixPartners.

Colleen Dunlevy '96 1,
Kiley on Sept. 21, 2002, j

Lee Chapel. Members of thea
ding party included Beth
Formidoni 796, ’99L, and Bunn
Wong ’97. Christine Tutor °96 ati
Jenny Queen 95 were Present.
‘The couple have environmental
consulting jobs in Raleigh, N.C.

  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

Aloise Bozell '96, "OIL to
Vansant '96 on Sept. 22, 2002 in
Annapolis, Md. Members of che 7
wedding party included Meredith q
Bozell ’03, Sabrina Ciccarello ‘OIL,
‘Tiffany Gagliardi °96, Jaime Kj
‘01L, Burns Griffin Lewis °04
Jennifer Buckey Wick 798, ‘OIL,
Christi Wooldridge Megow ’97
Matt Ermigiotti 96, Andy Shapira
96 and Jason Ward 796. The cou-
ple reside in Bethesda.

Jennifer Horne '97 to Shad
Boyter '97 on Sept. 28, 2002, in
New Jersey. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
Meredith Muir, Susan Prevost,
Amy Shaw, Gambrill Corckran,
‘T’J. Griffin and Nathan Myers,
‘The couple live in Alexandria, Va.

M. Cooper Harriss '97 to Sarah
Anderson on Dec. 28, 2002, in St.
Paul, Minn. ‘They live in New
Haven, Conn.

Lauren Cuthrie '97 to David
Ledbetter on June 1, 2002, in
Cape May, N.J. The wedding
party included classmates
Elizabeth Bissell, Julie Mayo
Bradbury, Sarah Ferguson, Page
Madison Johnson, Bindi Patel,
Laura Perry, Ashley Simon,
Lindsay Harris, Erika Snyder,
Alison Simmons and_brotherin-
law Wright Ledbetter ’89.

Elizabeth A. Fritze '97 to Martin
Meier on Jan. 11. Present at
Arlington, Va., wedding were C
Dreibelbis ’94, Lorilei Gryd
Dreibelbis ’97, Hank Cosby q
Steve Frame 797, Demi
McGarry 98, Dan Odenwald 7/
and Lambda Chi house motik™
Dixie Covey. The couple live i.
Arlington, Va. q
Dr. John T. Poole III'97 to Chan
Marie Chapman on March 8
Dallas. Blake Scharlach ’97 atte
ed the wedding. Poole is a den
resident in the U.S. Navy Den
Corps. The couple live
Pensacola, Fla.

Peter M. Ward '98 to Kathry?
Marcum on Sept. 14, 2002.
couple live in Louisville, Ky.

 

 

W a: $ hi I n g 30 Ae wn d

a es

Mie Ae GS A eZ |

Ne

 

 

n Brotherton '98 to Hillary
as 99 on April 5 on Kiawah
SC. The wedding party
d best man | Janiel Rushing
| Booth 97, \ {ichael Carter
‘gg. Amy Baker Nielsen ’00 and
cusannah Carr 99. In attendance
7 .. Jed Hazlett ’98, Greg Chow
e Trevor Reed 99, Catherine
Hobbs 97 and William ‘¥
Brotherton Ill ‘75. The couple
reside in New York City, where he
works as a producer and she works

Aa

{sland,
include
"98, Nel

in book publishing.

Nathaniel J. Hager 99 to Jessica
Chadwell on Aug. 17, 2002, in
Atlanta. Michael Laeser 99 served
as a groomsman. Present were
classmates Rachel Goddu, Beth
Arthur, Alice Cockrum Brown,
Erika Woodson, Keri Dunphy and
Aaron Haberman. The couple live
in Alexandria, Va.

Kathryn Luskey ‘99 to Paul
Jacobson 98L on Oct. 5, 2002, in
Hunt Valley, Md. She completed a
year-long master’s program in
social studies education at
Teachers College at Columbia
University in August 2002 and
teaches eighth-grade U.S. history
in the New York City school sys-
maeeane couple ilive in
Manhattan.

Frances Cilbert'99 to Ward Lacy
on July 27, 2002. ‘The couple
reside in Birmingham, Ala.

Leonard C. Rorrer Ill ’99 to
Rebecca Bates on Noy. 3, 2001, in
Seville, Ohio. Members of the
wedding party included best man
Mike Holifield ’89, Lee Rorrer
Holifield 93 and Greg Bank 799.
Rorrer graduated from the
University of Florida with a mas-
ters in chemistry last December
and is a quality assurance manager
for U.S. Lithium Energetics
L.L.C. in Alachua, Fla.

Ceoffrey B. Veale "99 to Mary
Williams mare. 7, 2002. in
Philadelphia. Many W&L friends
were In attendance. ‘The couple
live in New York City.

Sarah Hall 00 to Bryson F, Datt
oa on Aug. 10, 2002, in El
Yorado, Ark. The wedding party
ded Oleta Garett ‘Thompson,
: al Elizabeth Whipple Eldridge,
oa Kimbrell Hight, Mary
weather Welder, Daniel Grattan,
4 ton Biddle. Aaron Love,
Andrew Stewart and Joshua Solot.

Joseph P. Hawkins '00 to Ellen
Klenk '0O on June 8, 2002, in
Indianapolis, Ind. ‘The wedding
party included Alex Sedgwick ’01,
Shannon Bell ’00 and Jocelyn
Smith ’00. Both attend graduate
school in Indianapolis.

Ashley Penkava’00 to George B.
Sutherland on April 19 at
Rockbridge Vineyards. Carson B.
Penkava ’04 was present, as was
Amy Lynn Calce ’01, the maid of
honor. She is in her first year at
Eastern Virginia Medical School,
in Norfolk, and he is in his third.

Summers Kimbrough '02 to
‘Torrey McMurray on Aug, 24, 2002,
in Greensboro, N.C. Stacy Mc-
Loughlin ’02 was a bridesmaid. ‘The
couple live in Summerfield, N.C.

 

Dr. and Mrs. Charles A. Stein "75,
a daughter, Anna Elizabeth, adopt-
ed January 2003 at 20 months. Stein
practices pediatrics in Culpeper,
Va., and is the past president of the
medical staff of the Culpeper
Regional Hospital. Anna is from
Fuyian Province, China.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. Keefe ’78, a
daughter, Eliza Fitzgerald, adopt-
ed on Nov. 15, 2002, and born on
Dec. 29, 2001, in Yunnan Province,
China. The family live in
Alexandria, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Karl N. Koon 78, a
daughter, Kerry Elizabeth, on
Aug. 1, 2002. She joins sisters
Kelly, 9, Katherine, 6, and Karel,
3. Koon enjoyed the geology
reunion last year. ‘The family live
in Asheville, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Stathakis
"BI, a son, Gerald, on Oct. 25, 2002.
He joins brother James, 2. The
family live in Anderson, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Black’83,
a son, Austin James, on Oct. 15,
2002. The family reside in
Sparks, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick T. McCuire
'84, a son, Owen Thomas, on Dec.
29, 2002. He joins brothers Shane,
7, and Liam, 5, and sister Elly, 2.
‘The family live in Mableton, Ga.

W. Drew Perkins Jr.'84 and Nelly
Perkins '90, a son, William Henry
Steck, on Sept. 19, 2002. He joins
brother Giles, 4. ‘The family live in
Baltimore.

A L U MN It N E WwW S

 

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Driscoll
'85, "9IL, a son, Matthew Henry,
on March 19. ‘The family live in
Virginia Beach.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Bruce Potter
"85, a son, Kevin Michael, on Dec.
30, 2002. He joins _ half-brother
Brandon. ‘The family live in Aylett,
Va. Potter is the director of news
synergy for Media General Inc.’s
publishing division.

Dr. and Mrs. John-Paul
Bouffard '86, a son, Samuel
Michael, on May 25, 2002. He
joins brothers, Ben, 8, and Joe, 6.
‘They live in Germantown, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Hunt’86, a
daughter, Olivia Irene, on Jan. 8.
He is a managing director of
Shattuck Hammond Partners, a
health care investment bank. The
family live in San Francisco.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher J.
Komosa ’86, a son, Henry Hunt,
on March 20. He joins brothers
Reid and ‘Teddy. The family reside
in Scarborough, N.Y., after moving
from New York City, where
Komosa is a portfolio manager for
Caxton Associates.

Mr. and Mrs. Duane B. Craddy Jr.
'87, a son, Spencer Burnett, on Jan.
2. He joins sister Mary Grace, 1.
‘The family live in ‘Tullahoma, Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Rowe '87, a
son, Matthew Stefan, on April 29,
Dad’s 38th birthday. He joins
brother Jack, 18 months. The fam-
ily live in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. David D. Seifert '87,
a son, John Carter, on Feb. 1. The
family live in Owings Mills, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Brooks Jr.
'88, a daughter, Elizabeth Gale, on
Aug. 27, 2002. She joins sister
Francie, 8. The family live in New
Orleans.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Keene '88, a
daughter, Ava Elise, on Sept. 21,
2002. Keene is a partner in the law
firm of Davis & Davis in Austin,
‘lexas, specializing in the defense
of health care providers from med-
ical malpractice claims.

Christine Davis Barringer '89,
and her husband, Rhett, a son,
‘Tyler, on Jan. 31. The family live in
‘Tallahassee, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas C.
Bracken ‘89, a _ daughter,
Margaret Elizabeth, on Jan. 22. He
is a partner in the Dallas office of
Sarles & Ouimet L.L.P.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Brock
89, a son, Richard Goodwin Jr., on
April 17. He joins sister Laine, 6.
‘The family live in Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen R. Chance
89, a son, Patrick Roberts, on Jan.
9. He joins sister Madison. ‘They
live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. David C. Holland
"89, twins, Alexander and Amelia,
on Oct. 23, 2002. ‘They join broth-
er Andrew. The family live in
University Park, Md.

Sgt. and Mrs. R. Lane Lastinger
"89, a son, MacLane, on Jan. 17.
Lane is a criminal defense attorney
practicing in Pirelles County, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Hunter 6B.
McFadden Jr. '89, a son, Hayden
Beall, on Dec. 8, 2002. He joins sis-
ter Emma. ‘The family reside in
Metairie, La.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin C. McCee Jr.
'89, a son, William Clyde, on Sept.
21, 2002. McGee finished his car-
diothoracic fellowship at Mas-
sachusetts General Hospital last
December and started a one-year
fellowship in heart failure and
transplants at the Cleveland Clinic
in Cleveland, Ohio.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Moore
89, a son, Jake, on July 2, 2002.
He joins sister Liza, 4. The family
live in Monkton, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Lee K. Carlove 90,
'93L, a daughter, Emory Collins,
on March 8. He practices law with
Morris, Garlove, Waterman &
Johnson in Louisville, Ky. He also
serves as president of the
Louisville American Cancer
Society and was named one of the
“Top 40 under 40” by Louisville’s
Business First newspaper.

Virginia Brent Jones '90 and her
husband, A.J., a daughter, Virginia
Martin, on Oct. 7, 2002. She joins
brother Jack, 5. ‘The family live in
Virginia Beach.

David E. Pitzel "90 and Erika
Voikerding Pitzel "92, a daughter,
Kate Elizabeth, on Jan. 29. She
joins siblings ‘Thomas, 8, and Amy,
5, in Atlanta.

 

Wiaissh A © git @ tr

an d

Liane WEN 2As tu ba ene 1

M TAG Ge A AZ

I

 

Mr. and Mrs. Scott T. Silverman
‘90, a son, William Erik, on Aug.
13, 2002. He joins brother Justin, 3.
Silverman is a partner with the law
firm of Zinober & McCrea PA. in
‘Tampa, Fla., where he specializes
in management labor and employ-
ment law.

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew H. Tully
‘90, a daughter, Elizabeth
Campbell, on March 5. The family
live in Atlanta.

Stacey Sim Walker '90 and her
husband, Reid, a daughter, Annie
Katherine, on April 12, 2002. She
joins brother Gus, 3. The family
live in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Wing
‘90, a daughter, Anna Schuyler, on
March 9, 2002. ‘The family live in
Raleigh, N.C.

Carol Dannelly O’Kelley '91 and
her husband, Brooks, a daughter,
Mary Davis, on Jan. 22. She joins
an older sister, Cate, 3. The family
live in Atlanta, where Carol is the
director of marketing for Retek.

Alesha Priebe Schmale '91 and
Mitchell Schmale '91, a son,
Hunter, on Jan. 30. He joins broth-
er Holden, 2. She is staying home
with the baby, while he is a vice
president at Nevins and Associ-
ates, a public relations firm in
Baltimore.

Mary Stanton Smith 91 and her
husband, Stewart, a daughter,
Molly, on Oct. 23, 2002. The fami-

ly live in Houston.

Mr. and Mrs. Kennon D. Walthall
‘91, a daughter, Helen, on Nov. 10,
2002. She joins siblings Catherine,
5, and Vann, 3. They live in
Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Blair Allen Jr.
‘92, a son, Wallis Blair HI, on Jan.
3. He joins two brothers. The fam-
ily live in Little Rock, Ark.

Dr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Brown’92,
a daughter, ‘Teigan Antrim, on April
18. Brown is doing medical research
for Charles River Laboratories
outside Philadelphia and is the broth-
er of Larry Brown 94, the son of Ed
Brown ’62 and the great-nephew of
Hamilton Hertz ’40,

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Haake
"92, a daughter, Adelaide Curtis,
on Nov. 23, 2001. She joins brother
Sam, 4. Haake is an attorney with
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher L.L.P.

in Washington. The family reside
in Potomac Falls, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. M. Shane Kimzey
"92, a daughter, Reagan Rose, on
April 26, 2002. The family live in
Houston, where he is an associate
with Baker Botts L.L.P. He and his
sister, Kara Kimzey Fleming 96,
ran the Houston Marathon.

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Martin 92,
a daughter, Catherine Eleanor, on
March 19. The family live in
Washington.

C. Markley Melton '92 and Amy
Adamson Melton '93, a son,
Maxwell Charles, on Dec. 5, 2002.
‘The family reside in Houston.

Mr. and Mrs. Clay O. Thomas
92, a son, Wynne Phillips, on Jan.
14. He joins brother Walker, 3.
The family live in Tampa, Fla.

Elissa Taylor Huff '93 and
William H. Huff IV '93, a son,
William Henry V, on Dec. 14, 2002.
The family live in Dallas.

Elizabeth Coodykoontz Sherrill
'94 and Richard Sherrill '94, a
son, George Gordon, on Sept. 27,
2002. ‘he family live in Pensacola,
Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Sumner
‘94, a son, Thomas Sterling, on
March 9. They live in Goldsboro,
N.C.

Dr. and Mrs. Mark S. Crider '95,
a daughter, Isabella Faith, on Dec.
2, 2002. Crider is an ob-gyn resi-
dent in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Deirdre T. Denechaud '95 and
her husband, Michael Tolliver, a
son, Michael Byrne, on Oct. 18,
2002. ‘he family live in Atlanta.

Adina Erdman Bailey '96 and
Mike Bailey "98, a son, Owen
Wallace, on Oct. 31, 2002. The
family live in Harrisonburg, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Lee Coins II1'96,
a daughter, Carolyn Keane, on
March 13. They live in Charlotte,
N.C.

Julian B. Montague '96 and
Shelley Sunderman Montague
‘96, a daughter, Isabel, on Aug. 29,
2002. Shelley practices civil litiga-
tion with Ellis, Lawhorne & Sims,
while Julian is a transportation bro-
ker with C.H. Robinson. The fam-
ily live in Columbia, S.C.

 

Kurt H. Richter "96 and Amber
Leas Richter '97, a son, Graham
Rutledge, on March 2. The family
live in Montgomery Village, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Alan S. Cleland
"97, a son, Benjamin McMillan,
on Sept. 17, 2002. The couple are
in their final year of medical
school at ‘Tulane.

David M. Lamoureux '97 and
Michelle Althoff Lamoureux '97,
a daughter, Claire Marie, on April
16, 2002. ‘They live in Newnan, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward B.
Waltemath '97, a daughter, Mary
Harriet, on July 13, 2002. They live
in Nashville, Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. Mikel L. Parker 99,
a daughter, Chandler Moore, on
Dec. 11, 2002. The family reside in
Marietta, Ga.

Katherine Jenkins Therrien '99
and her husband, Dennis, a
daughter, Kylie Isabel, on March
19. ‘The family live in San Diego.

Holly Estes Minter ’OO and her
husband, Wade, a_ daughter,
Hayley Anne-Marie, on Jan. 22.
‘The family reside in Fuquay-
Varina, N.C.

OBITUARIES

 

Henry B. Tucker ’23

died Nov. 1, 2002, in Richmond at
the age of 102. He was a member
of the University Glee Club,
White Friars and Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

Edgar J. Spady '25,
former vocational counselor, died
Jan. 1, 2002, in El Paso, Texas.

Dr. Joseph B. Clower Jr. '28,
former minister, professor, author
and historian, died May 2 in
Woodstock, Va. He held two pas-
torates in the Presbyterian Church
and then became a_ professor
of religion at Hampden-Sydney
College. He was a member of the
Calyx, roubadours and Sigma Phi
Epsilon social fraternity.

Robert A. Merritt '28, '30L,
an attorney in Greensboro, N.C.,
for more than 60 years, died Dec.
15, 2000, in Asheville, N.C. A
member of the boxing and debat-
ing teams at W&L, he served in
the Navy during World War IL.

_ George FE. Hixson Fellow Award

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
  
  
    
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

Adrian L. McCardell Jr.'29,
retired president and chaj ,
the First National Bank;
Maryland, died Aug. 10, 2002, ;
Baltimore. He was a former trygre
of the Council on Econom;
Education, Loyola-Notre p. a
Library and the Keswick Home.
served on the board of directors wit
the United Fund and the
Scouts. At W&L, he was a membe
of the cross country team, the on:
door track team, Beta Gamma Siom,
and Phi Delta Theta social fraternjn

> a
S01

Herbert C. Jahncke ’30, i
retired president of Jahnck
Services Inc., died Nov. 22, 2092
in Covington, La. He served in the
Navy at the rank of lieutenang
junior grade. He was a member of
Phi Beta Kappa and Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. 4

Binford E. Parker '31, 4
retired owner of Parker Pean t
Co., died April 26, 2000, in Virginia
Beach. He was a member of Pj
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Stuart Sanders II ’3I,
former chairman of the board ¢
Sanders Brothers Inc., died April ¢
in Richmond. He was a membe
the Kiwanis Club, serving as a past
president and _ receiving th
Legion of Honor Award and the

from Kiwanis International. At
W&L, he was a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity.

Edwin B. Wilcox ’3I,
retired salesman, died May 29,
1995, in Rochester, N.Y. He was a
member of Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity.

Edward Cwin Jr. 32
died May 13, 1998, in Springfield,
Mo. He was a member of The Ring-
zum Phi, Southern Collegian and Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

J. Bernard Spector '32,
retired attorney with Fuller,
Mallah & Associates, died June 26, 7
2002, in Blowing Rock, N.C:

Sherwood W. Wise '32, '34b:
a founder of the St. Andrews
Episcopal Day School and the
Wise, Carter, Child and Caraway,
Pa., law firm, died Oct. 15, a in
ackson, Miss. Wise was 4 }
II Navy veteran. While 2
W&L, he was president of the St"
dent body, a member of Omicro®
Delta Kappa, the Sigma a
the University Glee Club,

 

Was

WA DECAL eae

fee A Llu maint

BA Arse Gh A AZ, I

Nee

 

 

a
2 ‘<7 Council the
fraternity : he

BE aion Club and Kappa Sigma

social fraternity.

reuben B. Armistead "33,
etired employee with South
Se cral Bell, died October 10,

2001, in Atlanta.

pr. William T-. DeVan '33,

former chief of staff and surgeon at
Hanover General Hospital, died
Sept. 6, 2002, in Hanover, Pa. He
was a veteran of World War II and
the Korean War. DeVan was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma social

fraternity.

Richard K. Eddy ‘33,

retired owner of Blue Ridge
Collection, died May 28, 2000, in
Winchester, Va. He was a member of
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

John A. Johnston ‘33,
former chief executive offer for
First Tuscarora Fund Inc., died
March 17 in Leesburg, Va.

Dr. Thomas K. Laird '33,
retired surgeon, died Oct. 28, 2002,
in Danville, Va.

Howell A. Lamar '33,

retired administrator with the
Singer Co., died Sept. 11, 2002, in
Marietta, Ga. He served in the
Navy during World War II and
retired with the rank of comman-
der. He was a member of Southern
Collegian, Episcopal Club,
Cotillion Club and Delta Tau
Delta social fraternity.

Charles J. Longacre '33,

dean emeritus of Kean College,
died July 23, 2002, in Urbana, III.
Longacre served as president of
Various professional organizations,
including the Elizabeth Education
Association, New Jersey State
College Faculty Association,
Coalition of Adult Education
Organizations and the Association
for Continuing Professional Educa-

He was a member of Delta
Psilon social fraternity.

Ira H. Samelson ‘33,

mtired Owner of Ira Samelson &

Co., died May 4 in Memphis,
€nn. He was a member of Zeta

eta ‘Tau social fraternity.

B

William W. Barron '34,
— severnor of West Virginia,
€d Noy, 12, 20, 12, in Charlotte, N.C.

ts T. Dunn Sr. '34,
Ctired employee of Ashland

Inc... died Dec... 12, 2002. in
Richmond, Ky. He served in the
Navy during World War II.
Dunn was a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

William H. Kemble Jr. '34,
former owner of Kemble, Cochran
& Co. Inc., died Aug. 5, 2002, in
Bristol, ‘Tenn. He was a member of
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

William O. Leffell '34
died Feb. 12, 1998, in Louisville,
‘Tenn.

Charles H. Reasor '34,
retired owner of Hayden Mobile
Homes, died May 17, 2002, in
Jupiter, Fla. He was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Ceorge E. Crisp '35,

retired owner and president of
Fred J. Crisp Co., Inc., died Jan. 25
in Akron, Ohio. He served as past
chairman of the board of North
Akron Savings Bank. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Loyal P. Gassman ’'35,
reured clerk with Universal
Packaging Corp., died Sept. 24,
2002, in Freeport, Ill. He was a
member of the commerce fraterni-
ty, Cahx and Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Francis B. Key '35,

professor emeritus of mathematics,
died Aug. 19, 2002, in Richmond.
He was past president of the
Faculty Men’s Club, chairman of
the University of Richmond Social
Affairs Committee and past presi-
dent of the Epsilon Chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa. He was a member of
Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Pi Sigma, Pi
Mu Epsilon and Kappa Phi Kappa.

Robert F. Middlekauff '36,
retired salesman, died Feb. 4,
1999, in Hagerstown, Md. He was
a member of Delta Upsilon social
fraternity.

Alvin H. Moraweck Jr. '36
died May 1, 1998, in Bedminster,
N.J. He was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

James P. Baker Jr. '37L,

retired attorney, died Aug. 1,
2002, in Little Rock, Ark. He was
a World War II Army veteran.
Baker served in the Arkansas
State Senate from 1946-1957. He
was a member of the Sigma
Society, the University Glee

A LU M NI N E w s

 

Club, . Phi. . Delta... Phi, ». the
Interfraternity Council and Delta
‘Tau Delta social fraternity.

John C. Bierer '37,

retired bookstore manager, died
May 16, 2002, in Auburn, N.Y.
He was an Army veteran of World
War II.

Raymond F. Dustin '37,
retired engineer, died Dec. 23,
1997, in Virginia Beach. He was a
member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity.

Capt. Stephen B. Lee ’37,

retired from the Navy, died June 5,
2002, in Groton, Conn. He was a
member of the Cotillion Club and
Alpha ‘Tau Omega social fraternity.

Ceorge W. Lowry '37,

former chairman of the board of
the Oklahoma Bank & ‘Trust Co.,
died May 4, 2002, in Clinton,
Okla. He was a veteran of World
War II, serving with the Marine
Corps. He was a member of the
basketball, football, outdoor and
indoor track teams and Sigma Nu
social fraternity.

Samuel T. Payne Jr. '37L,

retired attorney, died Nov. 21 in
Louisville, Ky. He was a World War
II Marine veteran, where his highest
rank was chief warrant officer. He
served as a director of Planned
Parenthood Inc. and served 20 years
on the advisory board of the
Salvation Army. He was also a for-
mer director of the Louisville Heart
Association, former trustee of the
Historic Homes Foundation and for-
mer Kentucky governor of the
Society of Colonial Wars. At W&L,
he was a member of Phi Delta Phi,
the Interfraternity Council, Graham-
Lee-Washington Literary Society
and Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

William T. Watkins '37,
retired wholesale grocer, died Jan.
9, 2002, in Henderson, N.C. He
was a veteran of World War ILI,
serving with the Army. Watkins
was a member of Sigma Nu social
fraternity.

Fielden Woodward '37, '39L,
former senior partner of
Woodward, Hobson and Fulton,
died Dec. 17, 2000, in Louisville,
Ky. He served in the Army from
1944-1946 as a cryptographer in
the Air Force. He played on the
basketball team and was president
of both Alpha ‘Tau Omega social
fraternity and Omicron Delta
Kappa leadership fraternity.

Edward F. Kaczka '38,
owner of Hobart Press, died June
29, 2002, in Mountainside, N.J. He
was an editor of the Ca/yx and
senior class vice president.

Cerald M. Lively '38,

former attorney, died Feb. 11, 2002,
in Prairie Village, Kansas. He served
with the Naval Reserve, earning the
rank of lieutenant commander. He
was past president of the America
Society of CLU. While at W&L, he
was a member of the University
Glee Club and Pi Kappa Alpha

social fraternity.

Thomas W. Stanfield '38
died March 25 in Savannah, Ga.
He served in the U.S. Merchant
Marines during World War II.

William P. M. Bowman 39,
former real estate developer, died
Oct. 27, 2001, in Greenville, Miss.
He was a member of the

University Glee Club.

Martin C. Cassett '39,
retired physician, died Aug. 2,
2002, in Atlantic City, N.J. He was
a member of ‘Tau Kappa Iota.

J. Donald Eackles '39,

former owner of Eackles Funeral
Home, died Oct. 3, 2002, in Chula
Vista, Calif. He was a veteran of
World War Il. Eackles was a
founder and first president of the
Bank of Harpers Ferry. Eackles was
past president of the West Virginia
Funeral Directors Association and a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha

social fraternity.

Charles C. Cilmore '39,
retired vice president of Marsh &
McLennan and assistant manager
of U.S. Steel Insurance Bureau,
died Oct. 27, 2002, in Columbus,
Ohio. He was a Navy veteran of
World War II and the Korean War,
earning the rank of commander.
He was a member of Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity.

Frank O. Clenn Jr. '39,

former chairman of the board of
Cranguyma Farms Inc., died Oct. 1,
2002, in Hammond, Ore. He was a
member of Pi Alpha Nu and
Lambda Chi Alpha social fraternity.

Charles K. S. Latus '39,

retired president, CEO and direc-
tor of Heartland Savings Bank,
died Nov. 24, 2002, in El Cajon,
Calif. He served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II and again during
the Korean War. While at W&L,

 

Washington

and

7. 2:

Me Ae Ge Ag

I

A LU MN I N EW S

 

Buck Buchanan, “Old-School Gentleman,” Dies at 84

William “Buck” Buchanan '41, professor
emeritus of politics at W&L, died June 20 in
Lexington. He was 84.

A Richmond native, Buchanan joined
Washington and Lee in 1966 as chair of the
politics department, where he taught politi-
cal behavior, public opinion, state and local
government and public administration.

Buchanan made his mark through his

quantitative applications in the social sci-

 

ences, primarily survey research. John
DeVogt, professor emeritus of politics, team-
taught with Buchanan in the late 1960s. “He
was very much taken with the idea of polling
the electorate,” said DeVogt. “If he didn’t
know something, he wouldn’t hesitate to
pump you for information.” Retired eco-
nomics professor John Gunn °44 remarked,
“Buck was a very careful researcher and was
able to phrase his questions so as not to bias
the answers. ‘That takes real skill.”

“He was legendary,” remembered
Delos D. Hughes, professor emeritus of pol-
itics and a longtime friend. “He was a very
dear colleague to everybody . . . an old-school
gentleman, infallibly.” Others remember his
warmth, congeniality and quiet dignity. “He
didn’t have a mean bone in his body,” said
Severn Duvall, professor emeritus of
English. “He was genuinely interested in
others. He was one of those people who did-
n't want to command the scene.”

Buchanan was a prolific author and co-
author of numerous books and journal arti-
cles. His 1969 textbook, Understanding
Poltical Variables, was in its third edition when
he retired in 1989 and so widely read it was
even spotted in a bookstore in New Guinea.

Buchanan earned a B.A. in French, a
certificate in journalism and an M.A. in
English from W&L—all in 1941. He began
as a reporter for newspapers in Danville and
Lynchburg, Va., and in Mobile,
Ala. During World War II, he
served as a Navy intelligence
officer in South America.

After the war, Buchanan
served briefly as an English
instructor and director of pub-
lic relations at Roanoke Col-
lege, worked on W& Ls bicen-
tennial committee and then
entered Princeton University,
where he received his M.A.
and Ph.D. in politics. He told
the WEL Alumni Magazine in
1985 that he really wanted to
do graduate work in psycholo-
gy. “Since I didn’t have any
biology I couldn’t get into psychology, and
since | didn’t have any math I couldn’t make
economics,” he said. “The politics depart-
ment was fairly receptive, however, so I
wound up majoring in politics, which was
compatible with my interests in public opin-
ion and polling.”

He taught for
Mississippi State University but was cen-

a teWw year at

sored, and then promptly fired, by the
state legislature for his liberal views on
race. He taught at the University of
Southern California, the University of
California at Berkeley and the University
of ‘lennessee before joining W&L.

Buchanan was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa and
served on several national committees.

He is survived by his wife, Vivian
Landrum Buchanan; two sons, James L.
Buchanan and David B. Buchanan; a daugh-
ter, Mary B. Petrini; and five grandchildren.

  

he was a member of Pj Alph |
the University Glee Club aml p;
Kappa Phi social fraternity, :

Edward L. Rimpo '39
died November 23,
Orlando, Fla. °2, in

Walter CG. Webber 39,
retrred management consulta
with Webber Business Service Ind
died March 16, 2000. He Was ‘
member of the Cotillion Club and
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity,

Dr. Custis L. Coleman "40

former surgeon, died May 3 sa
Richmond. He served as a lieu-
tenant in the Navy during World
War II. He was awarded the
Distinguished Physician Award
from the Richmond Academy of
Medicine and was presented an
award for distinguished service by
Bon Secours St. Mary’s Hospital,
where he served on the board of
directors. While at W&L, he was a
member of ‘Tau Kappa Iota.

Hamilton C. Disbrow Jr, '40,
retired employee with the Naval
Air Propulsion Center, died Oct.
29, 2002, in Langhorne, Pa.

Brent H. Farber Jr. '40,

former owner of Elite Laundry
and Dry Cleaning Co., died April
20, 2002, in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He
served with the Navy, earning the
rank of lieutenant. He was a mem-
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa, the
Sigma Society, the Executive
Committee, the Interfraternity
Council, the Cotillion Club, the
lacrosse team, the swim team and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Arnold M. Raphael '40,
former consultant with AMR
International, died Oct. 30, 2002,
in Delray Beach, Fla. He served in
the 3rd Division of the Marine
Corps during World War IL.
Raphael served with the Fashion
Association, the American Image
Awards, and the Fathers Day
Council. While at W&L, he was 4
member of Phi Epsilon Pi social
fraternity.

Dr. Alexander Bratenahl ‘Al,
retired physicist, died Oct. 15,
2001, in Pasadena, Calif. He was a
member of Beta Theta Pi soct@
fraternity.

Dr. Aubrey A. Houser JF: .
former physician, died March 201
Richmond. He was a member ©

 

 

Wa th i hs af @

ae

WM A Ge RZ

 

 

 

app: a ane
Tau Kapp lot art
Omega social fraternity.

pr. William B. Mize ‘Al,

retired ob-gyn, died Sept. 24, 2002,
in Sherman, ‘Texas. He sence in
the Navy during World War Il.
Mize was 4 founding member
of the American _ College of
Obstetricians anc Gynecologists.
ar W&L, he was a member Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

Gerhart S. Suppiger jr. '4l,
former president of Brooks F oods
Inc., died mee 25. 2002, m
Belleville, Ill. He was a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Howard W. Wilson 'A2L
died June 11, 2002, in Indiana-

polis, Ind.

Thomas B. Ballard '45

died Nov. 24, 2001, in Capistrano
Beach, Calif. He was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Thomas H.

Jackson Jr. '45, '48L,

former attorney and senior partner
of Tucker, Jeter, Jackson, died
April 9, 2002, in Shreveport, La.
He was a captain in the Army and
a World War [I veteran. Jackson
was president of the Shreveport
Bar Association and was a former
law class agent. He was a editor of
the WGL Law Review, the forensic
Team, Phi Eta Sigma and Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

Benjamin V. Blagg II '47L,
retired attorney for the Treasury
Department, died July 31 in
Sarasota, Fla. He was a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Francis W. Flannagan '47L,
reured attorney with Woodard,
Miles & Flannagan, died Nov. 24,
2001, in Bristol, Va. He was an edi-
tor of the WEL Law Review.

Henry J. Foresman '48L,

4 noted attorney in Lexington, died
Dec. 28, 2000. He served in the U.S.
Army during World War II and
received the Bronze Star, the Air
Medal and the Purple Heart. He
attended W&L, Law School after
the war and began practicing law in
euena Vista and Lexington. He
Served one term as commonwealth’s
attomey from 1952-1956 and was
e City attomey for Buena Vista
om 1952-1955. Foresman was
hip president of Kappa Alpha
ter from 1965-1967.

Theodore S. Hochstim '48,
former attorney, died April 29 in
Dallas. He was a trustee of the
Dallas Museum of Art.

James W. Lukens Jr. '48L,
former vice-president of Interstate

‘Iraveler’s Services and president

of Eddystone Investment Co.,
died Oct. 21, 2002, in Naples, Fla.
While at W&L, he was a member
of the football, basketball and
indoor and outdoor track teams.

Enos R. Pleasants Jr. '48L,

retired international tax counsel for
E.I. DuPont, died March 31 in
Wilmington, Del. He achieved the
rank of first lieutenant in the Navy.
Pleasants was a member of the
W&L Law Review, Phi Delta Phi
and Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Andrew B. Dillard '49
died June 13, 1996, in Montgomery,
Ala.

Warren L. Choate '49,
retired U.S. Secret Service agent,
died July 21, 2002, in Raleigh,
N.C. He served in the Army and
was a member of Phi Eta Sigma.

William F. McCorkle ’49, '5OL,
retired owner of McCorkle’s
Hallmark Shop, died Oct. 19,
2002, in Lexington. He was a
World War If Army veteran.
McCorkle was named president of
United Virginia Bank-Lexington
in 1969 and held offices in region-
al and state banking organizations,
notably the Virginia Bankers
Association. He was a member of
Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Madison D. McKee Jr. '49,

retired senior vice president of
Dominion National Bank, died
Nov. 27, 2002, in Salem, Va. He
was a veteran of World War II.
While at W&L, he was a mem-
ber of Phi Eta Sigma, Phi Beta
Kappa and Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

David R. Smythe '49L,
retired employee with Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Co., died March
27, 2002, in Lynchburg, Va.

Thomas Willingham '49,
former owner and operator of
Willingham Lumber Co., died
March 21 in Chattanooga, ‘Tenn.

Thomas A. Hollis '50,
retired buyer for Forsyth Hardware

A LU MN It N E W S

 

and Furniture, died Feb. 21 in
Gainesville, Ga. He was a member
of the Cotillion Club, forensic team,
International Club, 7/e Ring-tum Phi
and Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Lloyd A. Lanier '50, '49L,

former president of Emery Group
Inc., died March 26, 2002, in
Charlotte, N.C. He was a pilot and
captain during World War II.
Lanier was a former president of
the Cincinnati NAACP and a
board member of the Cincinnati
Automobile Club and _ trustee
emeritus of Centre College. At
W&L, he was a class officer and a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
the Executive Committee, the
Cotillion Club, the lacrosse team
and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Horace F. Sutherland '50L,
former attorney, died July 11, 2001,
in Galax, Va. He was a member of
the Sigma Society, Cotillion Club,
Phi Alpha Delta, the baseball
team, the wrestling team and
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Adrian Williamson Jr. '50,
retired financial advisor and state
economic development, director
died Nov. 29, 2002, in Little Rock,
Ark. He was a World War IIT Army
veteran. He was chairman of the
U.S. Department of Commerce
Export Council, the Arkansas State
Chamber of Commerce _Inter-
national Committee, the Arkansas
State Council on Economic
Education and Regional Multi-
Modal ‘Iransportation Systems.
While at W&L, he was a member
of the football team and Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity.

Nicholas S. Saraceno 'SIL,
former employee with the
National Beverages Inc., died Aug.
30, 2002, in Middletown, Conn.
He was a veteran of World War II,
serving in the Air Corps.

The Hon. Frank I.
Richardson Jr. '51, '56L,
retired judge of the 21st Judicial
Circuit Court of Virginia, died Oct.
14, 2002, in Martinsville, Va. He
was a veteran of the Army.
Richardson was a member of Pi
Alpha Nu, Cotillion Club and
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Howard C. Rogers II '5l,
former vice president of Wilkins-
Rogers Inc., died May 30 in
Leesburg, Va.

William R. Rogers '5IL,
former tax consultant, died March
11 in Clarksville, Va. He served in
the Army Air Corps during World
War II.

Ollie S. White Jr. 51,

former administrator for Amherst
and Campbell County public
schools, died April 14 in
Lynchburg, Va. He was a member
of the football team and Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity.

Robert W. Lundy '52,

former account executive for
Reynolds Metals Co., died April
22 in Simsbury, Conn. He was a
member of the Glee Club, White
Friars and Sigma Chi social frater-

nity.

Emmett E. Tucker Jr. '52L,

former attorney, died May 19 in
Roanoke. He was a member of
Order of the Coif and editor of the
W&L Law Review.

William M. Bailey '53, '55L,
retired law director of the
Hillsborough County Law Library
in Tampa, Fla, died Oct. 16, 2002,
in Brandon, Fla. He served as an
officer during the Korean War.
While at W&L, Bailey was a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa, Order of
the Coif, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Beta Gamma Sigma, the W&L
Law Review and Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity.

Joseph W. Scher '53,

former president of Joseph Scher
Productions, died Feb. 11 in
Scotch Plains, N.J. He served in
the Army for three years. Scher
was a member of Southern
Collegian, ‘Iroubadors, forensic
team, Ca/yx and Phi Epsilon Pi
social fraternity.

Charles R. Thomas Jr. '54,
retired administrator in the
Virginia State Health Department,
died March 20. He was a Navy vet-
eran of World War II. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma social
fraternity.

John F. Lytton '55,

retired executive with ‘Ireadwell
& Harry Insurance Co., died Dec.
2, 2002, in Memphis, ‘Tenn. He
was an Army veteran. At W&L, he
was a member of Sigma Delta Chi,
the Scabbard & Blade and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

 

Washi a g tan and

 

Lieve ME ALUMNI

IMs AS OG: A eZ

I

Maj. Bruce M. Frederick '56,
former commissary management
specialist with the Army, died Nov.
15, 2002, in Map Landing, N.J. He
was a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Ceorge W. Eason ’57L

died Oct. 16, 2002, in Palm Desert,
Calif. He was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity.

John M. Smith '57,

former owner of Smith Chevrolet
Cadillac, died April 11 in Houston.
He was a member of Sigma Society,
University Glee Club, Cotillion
Club, Scabbard & Blade and Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

Daniel B. Thompson ’57,
former employee with Goodyear
‘Tire, died May 16 in Marion, Va.
He was a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

H. Clayton Brants Jr. 58,

former president of ‘The Brants
Co., died May 24, 2002, in Fort
Worth, ‘lexas. He served as chair-
man of the Industrial Develop-
ment Committee and the Fort
Worth Chamber of Commerce.
While at W&L, he was a member
of Phi Delta ‘Theta social fraternity.

William M. France '58,
former owner of WHOK and
WLOH Radio, died April 26 in
Johnstown, Ohio. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Delta Theta social fra-
ternity.

Edmund H. Teeter '58L,
former owner and president of
Shoe Store Inc., died Sept. 23,
2002, in Charlottesville.

Samuel L. Bare III ’60OL,
former attorney with the law
offices of Bare and Associates, died
Sept. 18, 2001, in Key Largo, Fla.
He was an editor of the WEL Law
Review.

Dr. Sandy C. Marks Jr. '60,
former professor of cell biology,
died Nov. 27 in Worcester, Mass.
He served in the Navy Dental
Corps. He was a founding member
and former president of the
American Association of Clinical
Anatomists, and he helped to dis-
cover a permanent cure for some
forms of osteoporosis. Marks
served as American editor of the
Journal of Chnical Anatomy for 10
years. While at W&L he was a
member of Phi Eta Sigma, Alpha
Epsilon Delta, Graham-Lee-

Washington Literary Society and
Phi Beta Kappa.

Lloyd M. McMillen Jr. '60,
former president of Rockville
Materials Corp., died Feb. 18,
2001, in Nassau, N.Y. He was a
member of the Southern Col-
legian, Scabbard & Blade and Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity.

Lewis P. Nelson III 61,
retired senior vice president of
Nations Bank of Virginia, died
Nov. 15, 2002, in Maidens, Va. He
was a member of the White Friars,
The Ring-tum Phi, the golf team and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

William D. Rhinesmith '6I,
retired Library of Virginia archivist,
died April 6 in Walkerton, Va. He
was a member of the Graham-
Lee-Washington Literary Society,
White Friars and Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

Daniel R. Cole Jr. '63,
former partner with the law firm of
Krooth & Altman, died Nov. 15,
2002, in Bethesda. He was a mem-
ber of the football and soccer
teams, Cotillion Club, Ca/wx, The
Ring-tum Phi and Zeta Beta ‘Tau
social fraternity.

John W. Donohue '63
died Dec. 23, 1999, in Roselle, N.J.

Anthony F. Verdream '63L,
former attorney, died March 29,
1999, in Youngstown, Ohio.

Robert N. Aylin Jr. '64,
former owner of Aylin Graphics,
died Oct. 20, 2002, in Boulder,
Colo. He was a member of the
Sazeracs, University Glee Club,
‘Iroubadours and Sigma Chi social
fraternity.

William A. Jeffreys ’64L,

retired managing partner of
Claymore Partners Inc., died Nov.
20, 2000, in New Canaan, Conn.
He was an editor of the W6L Law
Review. He served as president and
director of Export Management
Corp. and was later managing part-
ner for Claymore Partners Inc. He
also served as a director of the East-
West ‘Trade Council in Washington.

Dr. Ronald W. Kasper '66,
former plastic surgeon, died Jan.
16, 1999, in Georgetown, ‘Texas.

Edward O. Perry III 70,
retired president of the Georgia,
Florida Division of the Canal Wood

A L U MN Tt N E W S

 

 

Corp., died Oct. 25, 2002, in
Augusta, Ga. Perry served as first
lieutenant in the Army Corps of
Engineers. He was interim execu-
tive director of the Georgia Forestry
Association and a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity.

Dr. C. James Harland Jr. '72,
director of Dental Services for the
Virginia Department of Correc-
tions, died Oct. 31, 2002, in
Richmond. He served with the
Navy Dental Corps and continued
serving in the Naval Reserve,
achieving the rank of captain. He
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

James H. Eads ’73L,

former attorney and mayor, died
Oct. 5, 2002, in Fincastle, Va. He
served as Fincastle’s mayor from
1984-1988. Eads was an elder and a
lay pastor at Fincastle Presbyterian
Church.

John W. Evans '76,
former sales coordinator, died Sept.

25, 1998.

Robert J. Ingram Jr. '78, '8IL,
former attorney, died June 5 in
Staunton, Va. He served as special

WASHINGTON AND [TR

—_—_—_ a

 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    

counsel to the president
University. He was a Member of
the football team, WEL, ’

Review and Sigma Alpha Eps;
social fraternity. —

of Yale

Peter S. Aborn '82L,

former French teacher at Burr and
Burton Academy, died April 10
2002, in Wells, Vt.

Elizabeth A. Ryan "S4L,
former counsel to the Senate Select
Committee on Ethics, died Ay
22, 2002, in Arlington, Va. She Was
an editor of the WEL Law Revie,
Darrell A. Poe ’9OL,
assistant commonwealth’s attorney
for Washington County, Va., died
Dec. 13, 2000. He was a partner in
the Abingdon law firm of Bradford
and Poe from 1990-1999, He
taught constitutional law for police
officers at Virginia Highlands
Community College and received
the Paul Harris Fellow Award in
September 2000.

Christian E. Roberson '92L,
former founding partner with
Roberson & Roberson, died Aug,
18, 2002, in Birmingham, Ala. He
was a member of Phi Delta Phi. ¢

 

Armchairs and RockefF

‘The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in black lacquer
with cherry arms. The five-color crest of the University is pain
the back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pie
of furniture and are welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christn
anniversaries or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham °14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by cal
(540) 458-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L Alumni Of
(540) 458-8473. Or mail your order to: Washington and Lee Al

Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

[1] BOSTON ROCKER (B/ack lacquer $320)
[|] ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $320)

ORDERED BY

   
   
 
   
  
 

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT LJ] VISA

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

1 MASTERCARD () CHEC

  

 

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WEL
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

 

Was

ha kh @ tx ® and

Fon aos

IM Ae G&G WA eZ

Ne: 8

 

 

MERE RMT. 200s

 

3

 

Parent-anc Jd alumni and other family members sat down together during commencement in June.

Back row, left to right:

Olivia A. Eustis, Ann Bailey Lynn,
Booth G. Samuels, Jeanne A.
Upchurch, Christian G. Dietz IV, Mary
R. Forman, A. Murray Abernethy,
Claire G. Smith, Jesse W. Smith, J.
Bryan Carmody, C. Kirkpatrick Vogel.
Front row, left to nght:

Unidentified guest, H. Sprague Eustis
Jc. 76, jonathan S. Lynn 71, 751,
Bruce S. Samuels ’70, Shannon
Upchurch Holt ’99 (sister of Jeanne
Upchurch), Christian G. Dietz HI 77,
J. Ross Forman III ’69, Richard S.
Abernethy ’72, David B. Smith °74,
Herbert FE Smith 64, ’67L,

James P. Carmody ’76L,

George I. Vogel II ’66L.

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.

a fow, left to richt: John K. Weedon, Catherine C. Henson, Three generations of W&L:
C.A. Wo ward, Jennifer E. Thomas, L. Hunter M. Neely Young II ’66,
7 ” h B. ‘Tucker, Courtney B. Rosenthal. Carter F. Young ’03,
Redon . eft fo night Gerald W. Weedon ’70, Lauren K. M. Neely Young Sr. *43.
ie * (ohn Weedon), Carlton M. Henson II ’77,

Lan’ L- Woodward Jr. °65, John W. Thomas III ’70,
rence E. \\orhous ’72L, Garland S. Tucker III ’69,

Stephen D. Rosenthal at. JOL,
el

SHdvY €00 208d

ALTHNIH AOlLaA Lyd Ad

tf.

  
  

NON PROFIT Org

  

The Washington and Lee University
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

   

U.S. PosTAMm™
P A I D

     
       
    
 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24750 PERMIT NO. 50g

NORFOLK, Yu

 
    

WWW.Wilibp.edu

cP
Be i,
se

=e and Music Buildi

ee er ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee re eee

ONE POSSIBL E DESIGN.
FOR WILSON HALL,
AS SEEN FROM A
PERSPECTIVE ABOVE

Woops CREEK. THE __—iUSE i Suidene ee —s
—— too few. Jashineto
THE LENFEST CENTER,

WITH THE NEW ART | - : ee Mapes : . : : — : _ oF  _-.
| <7 sity of Ma uguerite and H. F . “Gerry” Lenfest ’53, °55L, the

AND MUSIC BUILDING

Wilson, ee of W&L from 1983-199.
eo for ions! 7 S ao , - h a se for oe endowments and nat :
: ee ) ing, c rC
director of university

ON THE RIGHT.

