20071

 

 

 

>

   

 
 

aad a PE et S » wa
y 5 ~ - *,
4 Pe ted er ee mes Sah
ss lel a Sy ty Se Saha : é Pea) oan
' é a os , 7 t Ss ~ AM ot ‘Teot evs No ie P
~ re aes Rs ea iate
+ 7 e ne Pe * > aS hy
. 7 tn we - » Ms *~ _ > « 4 s 1 = a -
— eh a Sa?» = ) a ae
re ns "tds ~ They te ae -
. ee . wee A S| **.
dae ; Ps * } 7 : + -
‘ . ~
C A al a » 4 . . . 7
A - . on a
7 2
.
-
at .

:
:
‘

ee eee ee ee ee ae ee ee

 

LOLLYWOOD

Lhe campuses of Washington and Lee and Virginia M itary Institute witnessed a rendevous between Gen.
Stonewall Jackson and some of his troops in late August. That’s right—Gen. Stonewall Jackson. Scenes of Jackson

in Lexington will be in the movie, “Gods and Generals,” which is being shot this year in Virginia and Maryland

Sr, ae
PO ESE:
ie Weis
) “ae

-. 4 M- «

  
  

‘The movie is a prequel to the war drama

  

“Gettysburg,” which was released in

—

  

1993. “Gods and Generals” is based on a

 

novel by the same name by Jeff Shaara
and chronicles events leading up to the
1863 Battle of Gettysburg.

Steven Lang, who played Ike Clanton
in the movie “Tombstone,” has the role
of Gen. Jackson. The movie’s big name
stars (Robert Duvall as Lee and Jeff
Daniels as Union Gen. Joshua Lawrence
Chamberlain) were not in Lexington.
Nevertheless, there was a call for “extras.”
and the excitement was nearly what it was
when Richard Gere and Jodie Foster were
here a decade ago to shoot “Sommersby.”

‘Those who answered the casting call,
found the glamour of it all was dampened
somewhat by the sweltering 90-degree
temperatures and the prickly woolen cos-
tumes. Crews kept the extras hydrated
with a constant supply of cool water; the
more experienced carried hand-held fans.

Crews worked efficiently in the
transformation of campus grounds. Two
tractor-trailer loads of mulch were
dumped on the round circling VMI’s
parade ground to simulate a dirt road.
The statue of Stonewall in front of the
barracks was covered with an obelisk
that resembled a short Washington
Monument. At W&L, the Colonnade
was the backdrop for a scene involving
a student protest during the war at what

was then Washington College.

 

r H.O To 6 B Y PATRICK H IN EL ¥ oe A N D MAR ¥ WOODSON

 

PATRIOTS By George W. Graves

 

 

W&Ls World War II veterans work to keep D-Day’s memory alive.

PRESIDENTIAL SEARCH By Louise Uffelman
‘The quest to find John W. Elrod’s successor is underway.
SAYING GOODBYE Edited by Deborah Marquardt

Alumni, students, faculty, friends pay tribute to President John W. Elrod.

CAMPAIGN FOR THE RISING GENERATION

By Deborah Marquardt

Capital campaign seeks funding for impressive list of academic and physical programs.

PROBING THE GUERRILLA By Bill Morris

J. Bowyer Bell °53 spent life in pursuit of terrorists.

SE Por, Pg poe a By Deborah Marquardt

Campus reacts to national tragedy.

 

 

EM acumn PRESIDENT’S Ty wer LAW
JOURNAL Professor Rick Kirgis on terrorist law.
Russ Chambliss ’74 on leadership. PUES cUL Gah Ces OR CRE CEEEA Cab cee C ERT hc hae Ges cce

GENERALS’ REPORT
EX LETTERS Men’s soccer earns overdue respect.
Sobering thoughts and favorite professors, ee eewccecececcececcececsccecececececsceececsceeees

ALUMNI NEWS
4 THE COLONNADE Homecoming, ski trips and fishing lodges.
Passports aa... - S ep ccbassstensetenanbsspencnses biobeshasanecssgnbte
readings on honor.

Ree

Articles related to America
and terrorism appear on
pages 10, 30 and 36.

VOLUME 76 NUMBER 3
PALE 2700 1

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Deborah Marquardt | University Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Bill Morris, Taylor Crothers ‘93, George

Graves, lan Bradshaw | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely '73 | / ntwersity Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee Unix versity,

Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD

Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Le
357

Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals

postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. 60, Rector
Laurent Boetsch "69, Acting President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop 11168 (Flourtown, Pa.)
William P. Boardman 63, "691. ( Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

Joseph H. Davenport 11169 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T. Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

William H. Fishback Jr.’56 (ley, Va.)

John W. Folsom °73 (Columbia, S.C.)

Wiliam R. Goodell Sol. (Bronxville, N.Y.)

Ray V. Hartwell 111 °69, °751. (Richmond)

William B. Hill Jr.’74,°771. (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, 621. (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr. '62 (Hillsborough, C Malif.)
William J. Kimmel "69 ( Bedford Hills, N.Y)

John Klinedinst 71,781. (Rancho Santa Fe, ¢ Malif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, "691. (Houston)

Michael H. Monier 62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith °73 ( Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Suzanne F- Thomas (Alexandria, Va.)

Matthew G. Thompson ’64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. 63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm "68,751 (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White ’77 (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-463-8400
Publications Office 540-463-8956
Admissions Office 540-463-8710 WAS
Alumni Office 540-463-8464

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu

Career Services 540-463-8595 DEC 0 ] 2001

Development Office 540-463-8410

News Office 540-463-8460

‘Sports Information Office 540-463-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-463-8998
WEL Home Page wwwxwluedu

 

ALUMNI PRESIDEN T’S JOURNAL

aving graduated from W&L over 25 years ago, |

have witnessed a number of changes in our beloved University. Recently I have been

impressed at how fortunate we are to have such capable men and women serving on the
Board of ‘Trustees. We truly are blessed.

Over the past several years, I have been privileged, as a result of serving on both the

Williams School Advisory and Alumni Boards, to observe the Board of ‘Irustees deal with

several tough issues: housing for sororities, deteriorating buildings and inadequate space for

BIG DECISIONS

 

today’s programs. More recently, I have observed the Board’s deliberations on such thorny
issues as alcohol abuse on campus and how to equip a physical plant as old as ours for a 21st-
century curriculum without changing the essential char-
acter of the school.

Well, I am proud to report to you that our Board
attacked each of these problems head-on and, through
thoughtful and careful deliberations, came up with great
solutions.

Undoubtedly you have heard about the school’s
new policy on alcohol abuse. I witnessed most of the
debate on this subject and was proud, not only of the end
product, but also of the process by which it came about.
Alcohol consumption patterns on today’s college cam-
puses have changed dramatically since most of us were
students. ‘The new policy is, in my opinion, the best we

. “ : ; 7 a ; RUSS CHAMBLISS ’74.
could hope for. All of the constituencies of the l niversity tt a

: ° ° : W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
had input to the deliberations and, more importantly,

 

were heard and accommodated when possible. This pol-
icy is fair, objective and traditional in that the students will administer it themselves. If we
all support this policy, it will be a great first step to curbing the alcohol abuse problem that
exists on campus. Is it perfect? No, absolutely not. I am confident, however, that as flaws
are discovered, they will be dealt with in the same logical and caring manner that produced
this policy.

Now the men and women of the Board have a new challenge ahead of them, a chal-
lenge more difficult and important than any other I have mentioned—that of selecting a
new president to follow our dear friend and leader, John W. Elrod, who died July 27.

If you ever had the pleasure of being with John for just a few minutes, you know what
a wonderful, gentle man he was. John loved W&L for all of the right reasons. He loved our
history and tradition. He loved our character and philosophy. He loved the students, facul-
ty, and alumni and frequently was in the company of at least one of those groups. He rec-
ognized the importance our past but never forgot that we must build for the future. He
believed in honor and civility and was deeply hurt when those two virtues were violated.
John was truly a friend, who will be missed by all and never forgotten.

‘The Board has made a great first step in choosing a successor to John by choosing

Larry Boetsch as acting president. Larry, as most of you know, is not only a long-time mem-

RN LIBRARY ber of the faculty, but also an alumnus. a member of the class of 1969. He is a true leader in
YBU ; | |
arent s LEE UNIVERSITY¥Y€ry sense of the word, a thoughtful, caring person, and a great choice to guide the school

LEXINGTON, VA 24450

during this interim. I call upon each member of the alumni body to support Larry in this
new role and help him however you can.

As they have demonstrated in the past, this Board can handle the tough ones. I am
confident that the selection of the next president of Washington and Lee will turn out to

be as successful as our previous challenges. 4

RCHAMBLISS(@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

 

Another View

The recent Story about Jim Lewis
58 and his work on the Delmarva
Peninsula (spring) unfortunately
does not provide a balanced or
accurate VICW of the chicken
industry.

The industry is a significant
economic entity and is responsible
for tens of thousands of jobs
nationwide, including more than
12.000 here in the Common-
wealth. Thanks to attractive
wages, pension plans and other
employee benefits, many people
from other nations, seeing oppor-
tunity in the United States, have
chosen to come to our nation to
improve their quality of life.

Poultry growing also provides a
desirable way of life for some
1.300 farm families in Virginia.
Unlike many agricultural com-
modities, poultry growers are
somewhat protected from low
wholesale poultry prices because
they receive a contractual pay-
ment for each flock they produce.
‘The poultry companies are
responsible for marketing and sell-
ing poultry products, and bear the
brunt of any downturns in the
poultry market.

Not mentioned was any refer-
ence to the many ways in which
the poultry industry helps people
throughout our communities. ‘The
industry is a major supporter of
local charitable activities. Each
year poultry companies donate
hundreds of thousands of dollars,
hundreds of thousands of pounds

Write to WGL
By Mail: Unis ersity Editor
Washington and Lee

Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu
By Fax: 540-463-8024

Ad letters should by signed and include the
authors name, address and daytime phone num-
ber: Letters selected for publication may be edited
for length, content and style. Signed articles reflect
the views of their authors and not necessarily
those of the editoy 14l board or the U; niversity.

of food and thousands of volunteer
hours to charitable community
causes.
—Hobey Bauhan ’88, president
Virginia Poultry Federation
Harrisonbure, Va.

Alcohol Education

When I was on campus a few
years ago to talk about my own
experiences as a binge drinker at
Washington and Lee, President
John Elrod asked me face-to-face
what might have altered my jour-
ney into full-blown alcoholism
after graduation. Quite simply, I
told him, “education and coun-
seling.”

‘Thus, I am encouraged to see
that the University’s initiatives on
substance abuse include educat-
ing and counseling students who
get into trouble with alcohol or
other drugs. What worries me,
however, is exactly what that
entails. For the Alcohol ‘lask
Force’s work to stick, every stu-
dent should get a primer on the
cunning, baffling and powerful
nature of substance abuse. And
any student who develops a prob-
lem must be given access to com-
prehensive and professional treat-
ment that encourages abstinence.

Discipline by itself won’t make
much of a difference to those stu-
dents who develop a_ baffling
inability to “Just Say No.”

—Willam Cope Moyers ’81

St. Paul, Minn.

k'riendly Skies

‘Thank you for marvelous article
about the nascent alumni chapter
at the FedEx Legal Department
in Memphis (summer). After you
went to press, the group was
joined by John Williamson *88L,
formerly with the Memphis firm
of Martin ‘late. John is an officer
and director of the Mid-South
alumni chapter, and Jeff Kelsey
89, °92L, one of the six alumni

 

featured in the article, also is a
director. ‘There is one more W&L
connection: Beth Moore, wife of
chapter president Bruce Moore
81, is a paralegal at FedEx.

Moral: If you see one W&L
alum, there are inevitably more
nearby.

— Milburn K. Noell Jr.’51, °541.

Memphis

Summer Reading

Congratulations on the summer
issue. It is the best yet. Very
interesting content and expertly
produced.
—F loyd McRae, °45
Atlanta

Good Feelings

‘The “Good Samaritan” articles
(spring) are great! It’s heartening
to know that there are such great
“givers” among the student body
and alumni. Surely, President
John Elrod also belonged among
those who strive to make a better
world!
— Bill Wilbur °37
St. Petersburg, Fla.

favorite Professor

‘lo paraphrase the obvious, |
come not to bury George Ray,
but to praise him. No teacher at
any level had a greater impact on
me—an affect no doubt intensi-
fied by having ridden shotgun in
an undersized Ford (the Purple
Prose) while Dr. Ray (dubbed
“Lord Phoenix” after the some-
what seedy bed-and-breakfast
that served as our London base)
kept shouting “Help me out
here, guys!” as we comically nav-
igated the roads of England. A
tough grader? I’m hoping that in
his well-earned leisure, Lord P.
might join me here in Louisville
for a play and a pint.
— Robert Lutz °77
Louisville, Ky.

 

Washington

and

 

fee BR Atumn.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

aSS—

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

Russell W. Chambliss °74, President (Birmingham, Ala.)

William P. Wallace Jr.’74,°77L, Vice President
(Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish 111 °76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman "91 (Morristown, NJ)
Robert M. Balentine Jr. ’79 (Atlanta)

Amy C. Balfour 89, °93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
William M. Ball 111 69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)
Barry O. Barlow °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow 87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Roger G. Bowers ‘941. (Richmond)

James R. Brooks °77 (Houston)

John M. Cleghorn 84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

J. Hagood Ellison Jr. °72 (Columbia, 8.C)

John M. Falk ’86, ‘gol. (Washington)

Peter C. Keefe ’78 (Washington)

B. Christopher Lee °71 (Philadelphia)

Devon A. McAllister "92 (San Francisco)

David 8. Makepeace ’88 (Raleigh, N.C.)

Theodore B. Martin Jr. "80 (Chicago)

The Hon. William Ray Price Jr.°78 (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Hugh L.. Robinson Il So (Baltimore)

Bradley B. Root '88 (Pittsburgh)

William W. Schaefer 60 (Memphis, Tenn.)

William M. Toles "92, °95L (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus °83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Lisanne Thomas ‘821, President (Atlanta)

James J. Kelley 11°74, Vice President (Washington)

David L. Baird Jr.°711L, Immediate Past President
(Houston)

Law Council

Loranne Ausley “g0L. (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T. Balfour °63, 651. (Richmond)

Joseph W. Brown "68L (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °791. (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin "90, °931. (Louisville, Ky.)
E:. Townes Duncan °78L. (Nashville, Tenn.)
David P. Falck ’78L (New York City)

John L. Griffith Jr-°72L. (New York City)

The Hon. Michael L. Kraneer ’831. (Harrisburg, Pa.)
Jessine A. Monaghan °791. (Washington)

James E:. Nicholson °77L. (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert F:.. Payne ’63, °671. (Richmond)
C. Edward Russell Jr. "671. (Norfolk)

Caroline W. Sink 82. (Charlotte)

Robert 1. Stolzman “S6L. (Providence, R.A)
David G. Weaver ’811L. (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf "Sol. (Washington)

Richard T. (Rick) Woulfe’76L. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)
Laura Anderson Wright ‘941. (College Park, Md.)
Anne R. Yuengert Sol. (Birmingham, Ala.)

 

7

What, another fraternity scandal? The administration is dismayed, the
faculty is displeased and the student body shrugs its shoulders. The
Board of Trustees wonders whether “the Univ ersity’s values can coex-

ist with those evidenced by the fraternities.”

Such was the environment
on campus in 1964 when the
Contact Committee was born in
an effort to dispel the anti-intel-
lectual image fraternities had cre-
ated for themselves. Even
Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Art Broadus *64 was quot-
ed in a Ring-tum Phi article as
saying that fraternities had
“made little effort to erect any
other public image of them-
selves.” Drastic times called for
drastic actions, and the IFC
worked up a solution that went
beyond public relations.

Bringing prominent speak-
ers to campus for an IFC week-
end, an informal intellectual
symposium where — students
could learn outside the class-
room, would prove to faculty,
administrators and the Board
that students could create a valu-
able opportunity and environ-
ment for learning. Christened
“Contact,” the program received
immediate approval by the
Faculty Committee on Lectures,
and the student body raised the
money to pay speakers on its
own.

Blaine Brownwell °65, who
served as chairman of the planning

committee, and Philander Claxton

III °67 traveled to Washington to solicit support and suggestions from

THE COLONNADE

Making Contact:

Bringing the World

to Lexington

Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall, The New York Times? Committee.”

 

Washington bureau chief Thomas Widker. Special Assistant to the
President Douglas Carter and Commissioner of Education Francis Keppel
In the early days, no one was sure how long Contact Would last:

ae

after its initial success, it floundered through financial scandals and

lackluster audience attendance.
Over the years, however,
Contact has lived up to its mis.
sion and, in some cases, has bro-
ken new ground for W&L, Ip
the 1966-67 academic year,
Contact overcame administra-
tive resistance and hosted the
outspoken civil rights speaker
James Farmer. Other speakers
have included humorist Art
Buchwald, the poet WH.
Auden, pioneer feminist Betty
Friedan, film director Spike
Lee, and Independent Coun-
sel Robert Ray ’85L.

‘This academic year got off
to an impressive start with the
Oct. 30 appearance of Lech
Walesa, the first democratically
elected president of Poland
and winner of the Nobel Peace
Prize in 1983.

As Joshua Heslinga °98
summed up in a story he wrote
about the organization: “Much
like its speakers can produce
more well-rounded students,
studying the history of Contact
helps produce a more well-
rounded picture of recent W&L
history and student life.”

lor a more complete his-
tory on Contact, visit contact.

wlu.edu to read Heslinga’s

“Making Contact: The History of W&Ls All-Student Speakers

 

 

Lee Documentary Airs—Public Broadcasting System sta-
> d

tions across the country began airing the new documentary Le:

Beyond the Battles on Nov. 1. It is produced by Washington and Lee
University W. Drew Perkins ’84 and his Rubicon Productions.

The program takes a personal, in-depth look at Robert E.
Lee not as the legendary Confederate general but in his roles as
son, husband, father, soldier, post-Civil War peacemaker and col-
lege president.

Several Washington and Lee faculty members provided key

WV ; | L wW iE: MN 1] MA < A

assistance to Rubicon Productions, including Theodore C. De-
Laney Jr. °85, associate professor of history, J. Holt Merchant Jr. °61,
professor of history, and Vaughan Stanley, associate professor and
special collections librarian. Robert J. de Maria, professor of journal-
ism, is co-producer, and John Jennings °56, also professor of journal-
ism, is narrator.

Individual PBS stations will determine the broadcast dates and
times of Lee: Beyond the Battles. Perkins recommends viewers check

their local station’s schedules.

 

a # COLON NAOD E

Bookshelf

e W&L travelers climbed aboard a shiny double-decker bus on Aug. 12 to begin

Twenty-on

“Tondon:

\ Family Adventure in England.” ‘The eight-day tour covered a broad range of inter-

ombining old favorites like St Paul’s and the Tower of London with many new discoveries.
ests, © 5 ;

 

CAPTAIN’S LOG:
PAMILY ADVENTURE IN LONDON

~

 

Radio Days
Dean Finney °45 relives his life’s story
as a World War II veteran, newspaper
reporter and radio station owner in Fie

Tuning: One Man’s Life.

in .& ee ee

ONE OF LONDON’S FAMOUS DOUBLE-DECKER BUSES PROVIDED

TRANSPORTATION TO SITES OLD AND NEW.

 

Chasey Crawford, children’s educator and guide, accompanied us throughout the week as we
visited a variety of sites. We sat in a classroom at The Ragged School, created in 1909 to educate
poor children in London’s East End. We experienced a typical Victorian school lesson conducted Queen of Modern Virtues

by a trained actress, who was as much concerned with our posture and demeanor as our ability to —
Dedicated to the memory of President

copy the alphabet on our slates. A visit to spe a ee
PS John W. Elrod, 7aking Responsibility:

Coming Up: |. Eton College, where students still wear for- Ana Se
ae Comparative Perspectives is the work of
Feb. 21-March 8, 2002: || mal attire, proved quite a contrast to W&L. :
va ee 13 scholars who study the concept of
A South American Mosaic— t [he youngsters in our group were hoping for ee =
; ’ : » me ess, r responsibility in various cultures around
Argentina, Chile and Patagonia ~ a glimpse of Prince Harry Windsor, who is ” :
; the world. Edited by Winston Davis,
May 16-31, 2002: regarded by his classmates as just another

; a cu the Jessie Ball duPont Professor of
Springtime on the Danube “one of the guys.” Unfortunately, the W&L os es

oe Religion, the book originated in a series
group was the only class in session. a
| s re ; of lectures sponsored by W&L as part
Our tour of the new Globe Theater, a painstaking reconstruction of the original, was one of the er ae
; | es i of its 250th anniversary celebration.
week's many highlights. An actor conducted a lively workshop in which any illusion of Elizabethan

gentility was quickly dispelled. All actors in those days were male. For costumes, they wore dirty
castoffs from w ealthy patrons. ‘Their audiences, Credit Worthy

numbering 1,500, stood in “the pit,” for hours

Top Billing for W&L

under an open sky, eating and drinking and
discarding their garbage where they saw U.S. News and World Report once again
fit—often a - ac sieht i adele . SD. VED. age

fi. 258 a eo an expression of ranked W&L among the top national
Cisapproval. lhe remaining 1,500 paid two-

Rice f liberal arts colleges. As well as holding
© tor

a seat under a thatched roof. ” 2 fal '
—— the number 13 spot, the University was
fry Wasnt necessary since the focus * |
" 7 ‘ > . >» <7 y 7 — »«
was on spoken | ) oe ey | * named 10th in the category of “great
poken language. ‘That evening, as

we del; schools at great prices.” W&L further
delighted in the spectacular staging of

performed above other top-echelon lib-

Phe Lion King” in London’s West End AMONG YOUNG TRAVELERS ON THE
we were happy t i ae TTR ae To Tt ee ee ee eral arts colleges in key academic and
a O pay a little more for the . ee
Bomfrr AND MERIWETHER SNIPES, LEE AND quality areas, including first in faculty
orts of the modern world. CARRIE PFEIL AND JACK FOX. THEY ARE

resources, eighth in alumni giving and

PICTURED IN FRONT OF ST. PAUL’S.

Susie Thompson, Special Programs
SON, « rams ; “ae
pe S 10th in selectivity.

 

 

 

Credit Worthy

Alcohol Alternatives

Washington and Lee is one of five col-
leges in the country to receive a grant
from the National Highway ‘Traffic
Safety Administration and the North-
American Interfraternity Conference to
look for ways to reduce high-risk drink-
ing among students in Greek organiza-
tions.

W&L was chosen based on the
strength of its application, the school’s
support for sororities and fraternities
and its efforts to shift the focus of Greek
organizations from social events to
broader fraternal purposes.
W&Ls first projects under the grant
was a two-day conference in October
for student leaders of the 15 fraternities
and five sororities to identify ways to
make a cultural shift away from alcohol

use in their groups and across campus.

Kimmel Joins Board

William J. Kimmel of Bedford Hills.

N.Y., was sworn on to the Board of

fall

Lexington Oct. 18-20. He received his

‘Trustees at the meeting in
B.S. in accounting and business admin-
istration from Washington and Lee in
1969 and a master’s of business admin-
istration from Columbia University in
1973. As an undergraduate at W&L, he
was a member of Delta Upsilon frater-
nity. As an alumnus, he has served
W&L as an alumni career mentor vol-
unteer, a member of the Westchester
admissions alumni committee, a mem-
ber of the Class of 1969 Reunion
Committee, and currently as a member
of the cabinet for “The Campaign for
the Rising Generation.”

Kimmel serves as managing direc-
tor and senior advisor for Credit Suisse
First Boston. He is married to Sandy
Yeager, a senior vice president and glob-
al equity manager at Alliance Capital.
They have three sons: Kevin (W&L
class of 1999) and Brad and Wes (W&L

class of 2005).

One of

 

|
|
i
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
i
i
|
j
|
|
|
|
|
|
i
|
j
i
|
|
i
'
i
i
|
|
|
i
|
i
|
|
|
i
i
|
|
i
i
|
i
'
|
|
|
|
i
i
|
|
i
i
i
|
i
|
|
i
|
j
'
|
i
i
|
|
i
|
|
'
'

7 ae ee COLONNADE

       

  
 

 

Puoros By Patrick HINELy °73

 

A Bevy of Brownies Leads the Pack

Six members of the freshman class were once part of Brownie ‘Troop 91, based in the Roanoke
area. From left to right, first row: Greer Johnson, Romney Willson and Katheryn ‘Temple.
Second row: Catherine ‘Turner, Leah Greenberg and Susanna Hsing. Although its hard to lose
touch in a city as small as Roanoke, they agreed that it would be fun to “get to know one anoth-
er again.”

‘The class of 2005 is the biggest entering freshman class to date with 490 students from 40
states, D.C. and 23 countries. The average SAT scores were 672 (math) and 671 (verbal). The
class also includes 48 valedictorians or salutatorians, 31 first-generation college students, 41 stu-
dents with significant international experience and 430 with at least one or more advanced

placement courses.

Scaling New Heights

Pre-orientation programs for freshmen have exploded in popularity since the Outing Club
scheduled its first “Appalachian Adventure” in 1997. This year, more than 150 students partic-
ipated in a variety of outdoor activities to help new students build a peer group before entering
academic life at W&L. Students had a choice of 3
hiking the Appalachian ‘Trail, fly fishing in the
Jackson River, kayaking on the Maury River,
mountain biking on Snowshoe Mountain and
rock climbing at Goshen Pass. Acting President
Larry Boetsch *69 (jeans, blue shirt and white
helmet) and Kirk Follo °67, (short pants, blue
shirt, white helmet) German and Italian lecturer
and Outing Club advisor, joined the rock climb-
ing group for lunch one day. Other students—55
in all—participated in social service projects,
including Habitat for Humanity and the TAP
(Total Action Against Poverty) program in

Roanoke Because of the popularity of the pro-

 

grams, a lottery is used to select participants.

 

THE oe. eae. ee ey ee Oe SC:

 

Once upon a time, leaving for college was a huge adventure in and The St. Andrews program evolved along a different line. “If you
of itself. Now the experience isn’t complete without a trip abroad. set a goal to have more of your students going abroad, one of the first
Why the sudden urge to pack a suitcase? ‘The new global economy. things you have to do is look at why they are not going abroad, who
Shrinking borders require new perspectives on nations and peoples is not going abroad, what you can do to change that,” explained
and the issues that unite and divide them. William Klingelhofer, director of the office of international educa-

study abroad opportunities already abound at W&L, but stu- tion. “Traditionally, premed students have had a very difficult time
dents now have two new choices: St. going abroad because of the require-
Andrews University in Scotland and Have Passport, ments placed upon them here and by

the bodies that govern their acceptance

‘The solution turned out to be a

the University of Bayreuth in Germany.

lhe exchange program with the

 

University of Bayreuth, spearheaded

by German Professor Robert Young- joint venture with St. Andrews, where
blood, is an expansion of what used to be a six-week spring term pro- W&L students will have an opportunity to spend a fall term at one
ram into an entire semester. Tom Grove ’02, a German and Russian of Great Britain’s most ancient universities. Students will take organ-
double major, says,“ I didn’t want to pass up the chance to live and ic chemistry, a course that has been designed in accordance with
Study at a German uni ersity, not just learning the language, but W&L curricular models, which in turn will satisfy the American
soing through the same classes that German students go through.” Medical College Application Service. Students also will take a course
He added that with this exchange program, he offered through the St. Andrews psychology
learned there’s 2 difference between traveling department on behavior and health and have the
through a place and living in it. “Living here in chance to enroll in other science and humanities

Bayre
yreuth, I really had to try and understand the COUTSES.

Way pe : wh . . ( as. (Ae :
Y People interact with one another before | Chad Ellis ’03 is a premed student taking advan-

could , . : T
lo the same. At first I found I put people on tage of this newest program. As well as getting out

the defe 7 : he ; : ; _
| ensive by being too outgoing or tying to ini- of Lexington for awhile, he says, “here is no way
Ulate fri . . 9 om ; °

endships too fast. to quantify what I will learn in my study abroad

 

:

W&L GERMAN PROFESSORS ROBERT
YOUNGBLOOD, DAVID DICKENS, ROGER
CROCKETT AND KIRK FOLLO ’67 WITH

DR HEINZ PGHLMANN (CENTER) OF

UNIVERSITY OF BAYREUTH.

 

experience, but nevertheless, the time spent
in a foreign country is as important as any
class in a liberal arts education. I think it

should be a requirement, just like math 101.”
WEL Forges Ties with Brazil

As a recipient of a prestigious $208,000 grant
from the U.S. Department of Education
Foundation for the Improvement of Post-sec-
ondary Education (FIPSE), Washington and
Lee University will implement an interna-
tional partnership with several Brazilian uni-
versities. ‘The focus is on environmental stud-
ies and enhancing several strategic initiatives
at Washington and Lee, including interdisci-
plinary studies, environmental studies, pover-
ty studies and global stewardship. The pro-
ject is entitled “The Environment, Economic
Development and Quality of Life Nexus: An
Interdisciplinary Approach to Undergraduate
and Graduate Education” and is funded for
four years, beginning this academic year.
Spearheaded by Jim Kahn ’75, director

of the Environmental Studies Program at

_—

JIM KAHN ’75

 

 

THE COLONNADE

W&L, the project’s partners include Fairfield

University, Universidade Federal do
Amazonas (the Brazilian lead institution),
Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense
and Centro do ‘Technologia Mineral. The par-
ticipation of the Brazilian universities is fund-
ed by the Fundagao Coordenacao de
Aperfeigoamento de Pessoal de Nivel
Superior (CAPES) of the Brazilian Ministry

for Education.

Jeff Barnett to Lead
Global Stewardship Program

Jeff Barnett, associate professor of Romance
languages at Washington and Lee University,
has been named director of the Global
Stewardship Program.
Funded last year
by a $525,000 grant
from the Christian
A. Johnson Endeavor
Foundation, the Global
Stewardship Program is

an important compo-

a

JEFF BARNETT

nent of the University’s
global learning. initia-
tive. The program, which will be in place next
fall term, will introduce several new courses to
the curriculum and provide additional resources
for both students and faculty development.

An overview of the program and its goals
can be found at internationaleducation.

wlu.edu/globalstewardship.htm

CALENDAR

OF EVENTS

ne

Greeks Help Needy Winterize Homes

W&L fraternity and sorority members
spent Saturday, Nov. 3, helping needy area
residents winterize their homes and Save on
forthcoming heating bills.

Approximately 150 students volun-
teered to hang and seal plastic sheeting to
the windows of about 20 homes in
Rockbridge County. W&L’s Greek houses
also contributed nearly $800 to purchase the
specially coated sheeting and other materi-
als, said W.C. “Burr” Datz ’75, W&Ls diree-
tor of leadership development and
Interfrater-nity Council advisor.

The students, working with the local
non-profit group Threshold, began planning
the service project after last winter’s soaring
gas and oil prices made it difficult for low-

income residents to adequately heat their

aging and drafty homes.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON PRESIDENT
JOSH PATTEN HELPS A LOCAL
RESIDENT INSULATE HER HOME.

 

 

Nov. 2-3: Conference on Global Media Ethics. Keynote speaker: Kevin Klose, presi-

dent and chief executive officer of National Public Radio.

Nov. 9, 10: ‘The 32nd Institute on the Ethics of Journalism. Keynote speaker: Gene

Foreman, the Larry and Ellen Foster Professor at the College of Communications,

Pennsylvania State University.

Nov. 9-lf: W&L hosts the Virginia State Campus Outreach Opportunity League

(COOL) conference.

Nov. 10: Law & Literature Weekend, William Faulkner’s /ntruder in the Dust.

Jan. 18, 2002: Founders Day/ODK Convocation and Inaugural Lecture of W&Ls

Institute for Honor. Roger Mudd ’50.

Feb. 1, 2, 2002: “/nvisible Man Turns 50: Ralph Ellison and the Literature of American
Politics.” A symposium commemorating Ralph Ellison’s /nvisib/e Man on the 50th

anniversary of its publication. Opening address: Charles Johnson, Pollock Professor of
English, University of Washington, and author of Dreamer, Middle Passage, Oxherding Tale

and most recently Sou/catcher: A Collection of Short Stories.

 

 

 

 

 

ECoOoOLONNAOD  E

 

 

It’s not exactly your ordinary reading group, but it’s one that has a natural home on the W&L
campus. Faculty members Greg Cooper (philosophy), Lad Sessions (philosophy), Brad
Wendel (law), Quince Hopkins (law), Ed Craun (English) and Robin LeBlanc (politics) read
essays and discuss books on the subject of honor. Topics have run the gamut: honor and adul-
tery in the military, Samurai honor in Japan, honor in the legal profession and chivalric honor
in the Middle Ages.

They have critiqued and discussed each other's work on honor. For example, Lad
Sessions’ inaugural lecture when he accepted the Jo and James Ballengee 250th Anniversary
professorship on Nov. 1, 2000, was read by the group. It was entitled, “An Inquiry Into Honor.”

“We have learned a lot of things,” says Cooper. “For example, that there are a lot of dif-
ferent kinds of honor groups, both historically and globally, and that they take many forms
and are manifested in many ways. But, I think there is consensus in the group that they all

tend to manifest, at least to some degree, the following characteristics:

» ‘That honorable or dishonorable standing is in some sense a matter of social sanc-
tions and social perceptions;

» ‘That the failure to live up to standards of honor leads to feelings of guilt, shame,
self-admonishment, etc.;

» ‘That in honor groups, conceptions of the self, ideas about who one is, involve some

degree of identification with the honor group.

‘The reading group came together after Vicki Sessions, circulation supervisor at Leyburn
Library, noticed that these professors kept recalling the same books from each other. “It was
clear they were all working on the same topic,” she said. She mentioned this to her husband,
Lad, and soon the group was working as a team.

“This work finds its way back to the W&L students in all sorts of ways,” says Cooper.
Sessions teaches a spring term course on the concept of honor, perhaps the most direct con-
duit. Craun teaches a winter course called “Truth, Honor and Character.”

atl of us. in one way or another, are engaged in teaching that bumps up against the
concept of honor, and our work will have an impact on all of those contributions to the cur-
riculum,” Cooper adds.

Since Sessions became acting dean of the College following President John Elrod’s
death last summer, precious reading time has become harder to find. But the group remains
committed, and in fact. may be charged with planning an interdisciplinary conference on the
fencept of honor to explore the topic from many different perspectives. An academic setting,

Yarticul: 2.7? . . . : i
particularly with Wé&Ls heritage of the Honor System, is the perfect environment to study
these issues.

 

It’s a Mann’s World

Lexington’s celebrated photograph-
er, Sally Mann, who launched her career
at Washington and Lee in the *70s was
named “America’s Best Photographer”
by TIME Magazine in July.

‘The magazine selected individu-
als “who represent the highest quality”
in 21 categories of arts and entertain-
ment. “Few photographers of any time
or place have matched Sally Mann’s
steadiness of simple eyesight, her
serene technical brilliance and the
clearly communicated eloquence she

derives from her subjects, human and

THIS PHOTO OF THE COLONNADE WAS
TAKEN BY SALLY MANN IN 1975,

WHEN SHE WAS EMPLOYED

BY WASHINGTON AND LEE.

 

otherwise—subjects observed with an
ardor that is all but indistinguishable
from love,” author Reynolds Price, also
a Southerner, wrote in the tribute.

Four subsequent ‘TIME issues
focused on science and medicine, cul-
ture and society, business and technolo-
gy and politics and community.

Mann also had a cover photo on
The New York Times Sunday Magazine on
Sept. 9.

Elrod Fund for Cancer

The student-run Nabors Service
League has created the John Elrod
Memorial Fund to assist indigent cancer
patients from the Rockbridge County
area who lack the resources to pay for
needed medical care. “Vhe fund was
launched on Oct. 27 with a walk-a-thon.
‘To contribute to the Elrod fund, contact

Lauren LaRue °04 at laruell@wlu.edu

 

 

‘ ; .
Washington sr wiehiid Ek tani a © eae M

   
 
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

ee

If the people responsible for the hijacking of the commercial jets and ‘The United Nations Security Council has tried in the Past to
the subsequent intentional crashes into the World ‘Trade Center and facilitate the surrender of suspected terrorists for prosecution, Ir has
the Pentagon on Sept. 11 imposed sanctions 9p
can be identified and International Law Allows Libya to induce the sup
apprehended, they would . render of suspects in the
face potential prosecution Nowhere lO Hide bombing of the Pap
in virtually any country American aircraft Over
that obtains custody of Countries to Prosecute Terrori sts _ Lockerbie, Scotland, and
them. on Afghanistan to induce
‘The widely ratified Hague Convention for the Suppression of the surrender of Osama bin Laden to the United States or any other
Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft makes aircraft hijacking an internation- country where he already has been indicted for alleged terrorist

al criminal offense. ‘The Convention requires each contracting state activities.
to take such measures as may be necessary to estab-
lish its jurisdiction over the offense when the
offense is committed on board an aircraft registered
in that state, or when the aircraft lands in that state
with the offender on board or when the alleged
offender is present in its territory and it does not
extradite him to one of the other states just men-
tioned. ‘The offense is deemed to be extraditable
under any extradition treaty in force between con-
tracting states.

The use of the hijacked aircraft as a lethal
weapon, resulting in the deaths of hundreds if not
thousands of people, may be a crime against
humanity under international law. The Statute of
the International Criminal Court, which is in the
process of obtaining the necessary ratifications to
enter into force, defines a crime against humanity as

any of several listed acts “when committed as part

 

  
  
 

   
  

of a widespread or systematic attack directed pre ee od
ie © “,

4 — : > a “ 2 - , va

FREDERIC L. KIRGIS, THE LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PROFESS

the attack.” ‘The acts include murder and “other LAW, IS AN EXPERT ON INTERNATIONAL LAW AND FREQUENTLY

ee a

against any civilian population, with knowledge of
: P ° . . : BRIEFING MATERIALS T Ss oO a. LIST ACROS is E COUN
inhumane acts of a similar character intentionally oth phate ies Ss aed dR hte iets eB Lt .

causing great suffering, or serious injury to body or

to mental or physical health.” International law issues could arise if and when the United

Even though the International Criminal Court is not yet func- States or any of its allies takes counter-measures against a country
tioning, terrorist acts amounting to crimes against humanity would suspected of harboring the persons responsible for the terrorist acts
be subject to prosecution in domestic criminal courts around the of Sept. 11. The issues would be particularly acute if the counter
world. ‘he United States would have jurisdiction under customary measures are in the form of armed action. Armed reprisals are high-
international law to proscribe such terrorist acts that occur within its ly questionable under the United Nations Charter (a treaty to which
own borders and to prosecute the offenders under federal anti-ter- the United States is a party) because of its strong emphasis on peace-
rorism statutes already in force. Other countries could exercise what ful resolution of disputes. Nevertheless, article 51 of the U.N.
is Known as universal jurisdiction. ‘This means that any country may Charter recognizes “the inherent right of individual or collective
make such terrorist acts criminal offenses under its own law, and may self-defense if an armed attack occurs against a Member of the
prosecute the offenders if they are within its custody. United Nations, until the Security Council has taken measures nec

“The widely ratified Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Seizure of Aircraft makes aircraft hijacking an international criminal offense.”

BY

krederic L.. Kirgis

 

—

ary to maintain ‘nrernational peace and security.” ‘Thus, if the
= a use of force to hijack and use large airliners loaded with
”- ro attack the Wot id Trade Center and the Pentagon can be clas-
- as an armed serack against the United States, and if it is neces-
ee ro take counter-measures involving the use of armed force in
ad, to prevent furt ber attacks, the United States arguably could use
force under arti le 51 until such time as the Security Council can act

maintain ‘nternational peace and security.
ro maint

illon Receives Stombock Chair. David Millon, associate dean for aca-
demic affairs at the School of Law, has been awarded the J.B. Stombock
Professorship. He was recognized for his contributions to W&L at a for-
mal dinner on Oct. 5. The Stombock chair was endowed by Mary
Louise Walker, wife of David N. Walker °38, in honor of her first hus-
band, Julius B “Gus” Stombock °41, ’°47L. Stombock, who passed
away in 1968, was a lawyer and civic leader in Waynesboro, Va.
The chair recognizes Millon’s teaching and publication record
during his 15 years at Washington and Lee. Millon, who in addition

co his J.D. from Harvard, holds a master’s and Ph.D. in history from Cornell and has published extensively in

the areas of corporate law and English legal history. From 1994 to 1997 Millon served as the director of the

Frances Lewis Law Center.

If the party responsible for the attacks is not the government of
the country from which the terrorists operate, a question could arise
whether use of armed force that causes injury to that country is law-
ful. The U.N. Charter was not drafted with such situations in mind.
An argument can be made, however, that the principle of article 51
could extend to such a case if the government is knowingly harbor-
ing the terrorists. Any use of force in self-defense would have to be

roughly proportional to the use of force defended against.

DAVID MILLON HOLDS

“I’m honored to receive this recognition” said Millon. “Washington and Lee expects a great deal from us lll ills

as teachers and scholars. I will continue to do everything I can to prove myself worthy of this distinction.”

Science and Law Collide Over Genetic Testing

Cynthia Donley Young ’03L spent 10 weeks last summer as an
intern courtesy of a $1,500 stipend from the ABA Public Services
Division Summer Internship Program, which supports law students
undertaking a public interest law research and writing project.

Young, who holds a degree in
chemical engineering from the
University of Virginia and plans for a
career in the field of bio-ethics, devel-
oped and completed a monograph,
“Genetic ‘Testing and Its Misuse by
Employers and Insurance Com-
panies.” ‘The publication will form a
part of a law, policy and practice mono-
graph series in public interest law.
“Genetic discrimination is a very con-
troversial subject,” said Young. “I tried

not to take sides, but to present exist-

CYNTHIA DONLEY
CRUE: ing and proposed legislation and dis-

 

cuss all the issues. ‘This was a great
learning experi ills i i
"NS experience. | developed my skills in legal research and writ-
ing and learne

ethics. The o;

| what resources were available in the area of bio-

int gave me a lot of freedom—lI was able work on my
OW n al | » oh _° . . ”
id take the paper in the direction I wanted.

NEWEST ENDOWED CHAIR.

 

Guiding Congress on Bankruptcy Laws

Margaret Howard, professor of law at W&L, will join the
American Bankruptcy Institute (ABI) in Alexandria, Va., this spring
as a visiting scholar-in-residence. ‘This is the first year the Institute
has invited law professors to hold this prestigious position. ‘The six-
month stint will put her at the very
center of providing Congress and the
public with unbiased analysis of bank-
ruptcy laws.

AMI is the largest multi-discipli-
nary, non-partisan organization dedicat-
ed to research and education on mat-
ters of insolvency. “What's nice about
this position is that I will be able to
define it along my interests,” Howard
explained. An area she would like to
explore involves empirical studies of

how well current bankruptcy laws are

PROFESSOR MARGARET

working. “There’s some real number- ey te

 

crunching to be done that will give us
all a better idea of how the current laws impact consumers.”
Howard, who joined the faculty from Vanderbilt University this
fall, earned her A.B. from Duke University, her J.D. and M.S.W. from
Washington University and her LL.M. from Yale. She is the co-

author of Bankruptcy: Cases and Materials (2nd edition, 2000). 4

\\ shinaton i aid-w & aie Ea Ae es Min @ aver ee ft

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

Men’s soccer has been a varsity sport at Washington and Lee
University for more than 54 seasons, and the team has accom-
plished some impressive feats. But in the past two years, the pro-
gram has turned into one of the strongest in the entire NCAA
South Region and finally is being recognized as such.

This fall, the team ended it’s regular season with an 11-3-1
record, with an 8-1 tally in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference,
making them regular sea-
son champions. ‘The team
clinched the number one
seed in the ODAC ‘Tourna-
ment and advanced to the

final game, where they

For

were defeated by Roanoke
College 3-2.

It’s been a long road
with a few bumps along the
way. In 1947, Norman Lord
coached W&L to a 3-0-1
record in its inaugural sea-
son. Joe Lyles coached the
1964 and 1969 teams to the
NCAA Regional ‘Tourna-
ment and the 1967 team to
the Virginia Intercollegiate
Soccer Association Champ-
ionship.

Current head coach
Rolf Piranian °74 captured
ODAC Championships in
1986, 1989 and 2000. He took
his 2000 squad to the NCAA
Division II] Championships,
where W&L defeated Frost-
burg State, 4-1, in the South
Regional Semifinals. One
day later Christopher New-
port beat the Generals 1-0 in
the South Regional Final.

Despite all that suc-
cess, W&L’s all-time record
has hovered around the
500 mark. In addition, the program has had to work hard to be rec-
ognized. Not anymore. Piranian, who has been part of the program
for more than 30 years, has had much to do with that success.

Piranian was named head coach two years following his grad-
uation from W&L, and he thought he was ready for the challenge.
“L was full of myself coming in,” Piranian said. “I thought I was
going to come in and conquer the world.”

But Piranian had no idea how difficult it would be to conquer
the soccer world. He compiled four consecutive losing seasons

before posting his first winning campaign in 1980. The Generals

Overdue Recognition in

Vi MAO

Men’s Soccer

 

 

—_—_—_——

finished 9-4 that year, including a victory over the Naval Academy,

“That was a breakthrough season for me,” Piranian said. “The
victory over Navy was probably my most enjoyable as a coach. We
also had a nice run in 1986,” he added, referring to his first ODAC
Championship team.

Following the 1986 Championship season, Piranian coached
the Generals to a .500 or better record in six of the next seven Sea-
sons, including his second
conference championship
1989. Things were
beginning to look up for the
W&L program,
though the success was nor

soccer

translating into recognition.

“It was frustrating,”
Piranian said. “Soccer was
treated as a second-class
citizen when I played here
and started coaching. It was
build a
respectable program that

my goal to

kids would want to play in.
We battled through it all
and, with some help from
the University, we have
come a long way.”
Piranian really put
W&L soccer on the map
last season. Coming off a 9-
8 season in 1999, expecta-
tions were low for 2000.
Gone were five starters,
including W&L’s second

all-time leading scorer,
Jamie Parker. The team
met and talked about

achieving a season with
double-digit wins. ‘That
goal was accomplished in
the 11th game last season,
as W&L won 10 of its first
11 games. Following that,
the Generals ran off nine consecutive victories, including the vic-
tory over Frostburg State.

Despite the loss to Christopher Newport the following day,
the team was proud of its accomplishments. The Generals boasted
a school-record 19 games, including the ODAC Championship and
the automatic berth into the NCAA Division III Championships. It
marked the first time since Lyles’ 1969 team that a W&L men’s
soccer team played in an NCAA regional tournament.

“Last season was very special,” said Piranian, who has com-

piled a 197-171-19 record in his 25 seasons. “We took everything

 

 

 

GENERALS’ REPORT

"73

PuoTros BY Parrick HINELY

- Yee ‘a
COACH ROLF PIRANIAN '74 IS THE WINNINGEST
SOCCER COACH IN W&L HISTORY.

one game at a time and never looked ahead. What made it even
more special is that it was not the most talented team I’ve had,”
Piranian continued. “The kids worked very hard and had really
good team chemistry. ‘That carried them a long way.”

The 2000 W&L men’s soccer team rewrote the record books,
claiming schoo! records in wins (19), consecutive wins (12), goals in
a season (54) and also tied the record for fewest goals allowed in a
season (14).

Piranian notes that such suc-

cess helps W&L attract more
For updates,

schedules and stats,
go to
www.wlu.edu/sports |

highly skilled soccer players each
year. He saw the results in this
year’s recruiting class and hopes to
see it in the future.

“A season like that gives the
program a lot of credibility,” Piranian said. “It perks the interest of
some of the higher skilled players.”

The 2001 season saw seven starters return from last season’s
record-setting team, including All-American sweeper Paul Wallace
and five other All-ODAC performers.

During his 25 seasons at W&L, Piranian has become the win-
mNgest soccer coach in school history, and his teams have estab-
lished most of the team and individual records. He has been named
ODAC Coach of the Year six times, including last season, and has
Captured three ODAC ( ‘hampionships.

“I’m very proud to have been able to see this program grow
from where it was hen I played at W&L,” Piranian said.

And if things continue to improve, W&L will be able to see

the . ;
* Program continue to reach new heights.

 

 

 

Football: ‘The Generals finished 5-5 overall and 3-3 in the ODAC.
The season ended Nov. 10 with a contest against Greensboro
which the Generals won handily 46-14. Junior running back Chris
Sullivan and senior linebacker Jeff Bahl led the way for the

Generals.

Field Hockey: W&L completed its first full varsity season with a
3-10 overall record, 2-7 in the ODAC. W&L was competitive in its
first campaign, dropping six games by one goal, including two in
overtime. ‘The Generals recorded the program’s first win on Sept.
12, defeating Hollins, 3-1. Sophomore forwards Kelly ‘laffe and
Jessica Lake finished 1-2 on the team in scoring with 14 and eight

points, respectively. ‘laffe tallied a team-high six goals.

Volleyball: The Generals rolled through the regular season en
route to a 26-4 overall record, 10-0 in the ODAC. W&L won the
ODAC ‘Tournament Championship—its fourth in five years—and
is looking for its second NCAA ‘Tournament berth in the last three
years. Senior middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert was named First
‘Team All-ODAC for the fourth year and earned the ODAC Player
of the Year award for the third straight year. She set the ODAC
record for career kills during the season. Freshman setter Jennifer
Lux was named the ODAC Freshman of the Year, while Bryan

Snyder was tabbed as the Coach of the Year.

Women’s Soccer: W&L fin-
ished the season with an 11-4-
1 overall record, 9-2 in the
ODAC. The Generals ad-
vanced to the ODAC
‘Tournament Semifinals for
the 13th consecutive season
before dropping a heartbreak-
er to Roanoke, 1-1 on penalty
kicks (4-2). ‘The Generals
were led by senior midfielder
Kate Bidwell and sophomore
forward Fontaine Marcoux,

who each tallied 24 points.

SOPHOMORE HEATHER COLEMAN,
MIDFIELDER, SCORED THE FIRST
GOAL IN THE ODAC SEMIFINALS

AGAINST ROANOKE COLLEGE.

Cross Country: ‘The
Generals cross country teams
showed well at the ODAC

Championships despite a number of injuries as the men placed

 

third of seven teams and the women placed fourth of six teams.
Junior Burke Duncan continued her brilliant career, winning three
races and placing second (19:12) at the ODAC meet. Junior Will
‘Teichman led the men’s squad with a 12th place finish (27:12) at
the ODAC meet. #

 

 

   

WSL,
Velerans
hight Again
Jor the
Cause—
Remembering

D-Day

BY

George W. Graves

«
4
a
‘

%.

a

¢

_ <i ‘3

President Bush
firmed Americas
asting ties 10
\-/antic allies
g lh dation
monies on June 0.

He stood in from

H O

7S uUlplu@r Dy

Pp

P

, : d
179), Brother

 

 

a

RE. %

  

 
  

SO LOH d

ind 6 @Daecgriaveed

IYNOILYVN

Cd

ay GF

IVIYNON

CIN \

[co ms

NOILVAN

1944.

june 6,
Anothet wal,
another time.

Thousands, including

many young men from

Washington and Lee,

fought on Normandy
beaches during the
Allied invasion of
Nazi-occupied France.

This summer, 57
years to the day,
veterans planted
another flag on another
hilltop, and W&L

alumni led the charge.

The National D-Day Memorial, in the tiny community of Bedford in
Southwest Virginia, was formally dedicated to the thousands who gave
their lives in “Operation Overlord.” ‘The ceremony drew 20,000 peo-
ple and much media coverage. Among those attending were President
George W. Bush and foreign dignitaries.

“It’s magnificent,” said William B. Bagbey ’38, the first chairman
of the board of the National D-Day Memorial Foundation and still a
director. Bagbey, a retired naval officer who spent much of the war on
destroyers, came to W&L from western Kentucky. ‘The memorial,
depicting what it was like to wade ashore and scale cliffs as bullets
flew, “is in the best place,” he says.

For years, as Bagbey, Robert Slaughter—the D-Day veteran who
remains the driving force behind the memorial—and others devel-
oped the idea, there was no place. And not much money.

More than a decade earlier, the quest had begun for a suitable and
lasting way not only to commemorate D-Day but to teach future gen-
erations about the significance of the largest sea, air and land inva-
sion—5,000 ships, 10,000 aircraft, 50,000 military vehicles and more
than 150,000 ground troops.

Nearly 10,000 were killed or wounded during the landing; two-
thirds were Americans. Bedford, with only 3,000 residents at the time,
lost 19, the highest proportion of population of any community in the
country, ‘Iwo more died soon after from their wounds.
Uhey were all part of the 116th Infantry Regiment of the
29th Division, as were other young men from the moun-
fains and foothills of Virginia.

After possible memorial locations in and around
Roanoke failed to work out or impress, Bedford offered a
Substantial tract overlooking its modest downtown. The
foundation accepted it and acquired adjoining land to
€cure a view of mountains. “If you have a memorial, it
Should have hei ght,” said Bagbey, who lives in Roanoke.
And a sense of place.

Te am : : :
hose who lost the most,” observed John O. Marsh

 

4

 

Jr. °51L, “are those who remember the most.” Marsh was secretary of
the Army from 1981 to 1989 and is now a law professor at George
Mason University in northern Virginia. A member of the memorial
foundation’s advisory board, he spoke at both the groundbreaking for
the memorial and at its dedication. ‘Though appropriately in Bedford,
the memorial, he said, “is a national memorial, and it is an interna-

tional memorial.” A dozen countries contributed troops and arms to
the cause. ‘Their flags fly at the memorial.

With abundant land (now some 88 acres) and Roanoke architect
Byron Dickson’s vision for an elaborate, involving memorial, the pro-
ject needed funding. And it still does.

Soon another W&L alum stepped to the fore: U.S. Sen. John
Warner °49 (R-Va.) sponsored legislation assuring that there would be
only one official D-Day memorial, and it would be in Bedford.

Although the project so far has no federal dollars, Lacey E. Putney
50, °57L, a Bedford lawyer who is the longest-serving member of
Virginia’s House of Delegates, managed, despite a budget crunch, to
help persuade other legislators and the governor to provide more than
$8 million in state money—about half the anticipated cost of the ambi-
tious undertaking. Corporations, individuals and surrounding commu-
nities have contributed as well. ‘The foundation is raising money to
complete the memorial, which will include an education center.

Obtaining state funding, says Putney, was “one of the most
satisfying efforts I’ve had the privilege of exerting in the
AQ years I’ve served.” He 1s pleased with the results. ‘The
memorial, with its massive triumphal arch and evocative
sculpture, “almost overwhelms you,” he said.

“You get out of your skin,” said Bagbey.

Others share that impression. “It’s really powerful,” said
Betty Herndon, visiting the memorial. Of Jim Brothers’
realistic depiction of soldiers, some expressing the pain and
anguish of being shot, she said: “I just wanted to touch
them. I could imagine how horrible it was for them.”

Herndon, like her uncle, James M. Carter, is related to

 

ii

 

To learn more about the National D-Day Memorial and Foundation, go to www.dday.org or call 800-351-DDAy
The memorial is in Bedford at state routes 460 Bypass and 122, between Roanoke and Lynchburg, |

one of the fallen Bedford boys who were part of the early “suicide
wave,” as some called it, hitting Omaha Beach as the invasion started.
Said Carter, a frequent visitor to the memorial: “It’s dedicated to a
bunch of guys who saved humanity. They saved the world, really.
They did what they had to do to preserve our freedom. As long as I
live and breathe, I'll bring people here.”

Gen. Archibald A. Sproul ’37, retired, a former director of the
memorial foundation, knows all too well what D-Day was like. He
commanded an assault company on Omaha Beach, landing shortly
after the invasion began: “H-hour plus 30 minutes.” As he and his
men approached the shore, they realized that the beach, despite
promises, had not been bombed. There would be no craters to duck
into, but there would be German gunners and sharpshooters to pick
off the stunned soldiers.

The action “was really hot,” recalled Sproul, who lives in West
Augusta, Va. “We crawled through water and made our way onto the
mainland” —but not before a bullet tore into his pack and an artillery
shell “came so close to my head it blew my helmet off.”

Honored later for his actions, Sproul rounded up those who could
carry on and led them off the beach and up an embankment. “It was
terribly confusing. Some of the boys wouldn’t put their heads up as
they crawled along. I knew what we had to do.”

Once off the beach, they still had a tough slog for weeks to come.
“We fought our way in. It took 18 days to go not more than 15 or 20
miles,” said Sproul. Among his many decorations was the
Distinguished Service Cross and several Purple Hearts. After the war,
as he climbed the ranks, Sproul headed the 16th Infantry Regiment
and eventually, as a general, commanded the 29th Division.

Several hours after the invasion was launched, a landing craft com-
manded by Calvin H. East 43 made its way through mortar and
artillery fire to drop soldiers off at Omaha Beach and pick up some of
the wounded. “There was smoke and fire all over the place,” recalled
East, who lives on Seabrook Island, S.C. He began at W&L in 1939
and completed his undergraduate schooling at Washington University
in St. Louis, where he also was trained to become a naval officer.

A storm that evening forced East’s flat-bottom ship, damaged by

 

A. U.S. SEN. JOHN WARNER ’49 (R-VA.) SECURED BEDFORD’S PLACE AS HOME TO THE ONLY OFFICIAL D-DAY MEMORIAL: I
B. WILLIAM B. BAGBEY ’38 WAS THE FIRST CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF THE NATIONAL D-DAY MEMORIAL FOUNDATION
AND REMAINS A DIRECTOR. || ©. LACEY E. PUTNEY ’50 °S7L, A MEMBER OF THE VIRGINIA HOUSE OF DELEGATES, SECURED
STATE FUNDING OF $8 MILLION FOR THE PROJECT. | D. JOHN O. MARSH JR. "S1L, CENTER, FORMER SECRETARY OF
THE ARMY AND A MEMBER OF THE FOUNDATION’S ADVISORY BOARD, SPOKE AT THE DEDICATION.

  
 
   
 

shells, “to stay underway all night. We had to pick our way in the dark
to avoid smashing into other ships.” .

While Sproul and East and others tried to beat the terrible odds,
Donald E. Campbell ’48 remained offshore on a ship but close enough
to observe much of what was happening. He remembers blazing rockets
and booming guns from ships behind him as they shot at enemy air-
craft. What he remembers from his landing a day or two after the inva-
sion began was “devastation—it was unbelievable, it was very sad.”

Part of the amphibious combat engineers, he spent six months on
Omaha Beach. Like many young men destined to become officers
quickly, he had been sent to a special program at W&L. Now living in
Carmel, Calif., Campbell said he was so impressed with the University
that he returned after the war to earn a degree.

But such details, so vivid for some, often fail to register in the con-
sciousness of the young. That’s what made people like Bagbey so pas-
sionate about a memorial. “It’s astounding how many people don’t
know what D-Day was all about,” said Bagbey.

He and other organizers stress the importance of the planned
Education Center, which the foundation says will engage in a wide
variety of programs and exhibits and pay “particular attention to the
clergy, medicine and cartooning in the context of D-Day.” Said Stuart
A. Barbour ’57L, a former foundation director: “History: If people can
Just get exposed to it, they’ll get interested. To me, the story of World
War II could not be more interesting.”

‘Though incomplete, the memorial has attracted more visitors than
the foundation dared hope—a quarter million to date. “I have been
very surprised at the attendance,” said Barbour. “To me, that’s amaz-
ing, simply amazing.”

From time to time, volunteers at the memorial ask any D-Day veterans
touring at that moment to gather in one spot. “They are totally inundated
by people who want to talk to them,” said Diane Kidd, a member of
the foundation staff. “They just want to be near them. It’s amazing.”

She doubts that the flow of visitors will slow as the D-Day gener-
ation disappears. She notes the enduring popularity of a Pennsylvania
town where a decisive Civil War battle was fought and a president
gave a now famous address: Gettysburg. +

 

 

 

  
  
 

Ses oe

So
Sa one aeeuers

Seek
See

SRpRu eit,

See ee

ae stougaets
Ses eee eee

Sak eee er

Sos es

ee Sas ee

Sena ea

Spee eau ee ne

Se Ree RO

“This is the most important task the Board of ‘Irustees will undertake for the next decade,”
emphasized Frank Surface ’60, University rector. Surface asked for a spirit of cooperation
and thoughtfulness similar to that which resulted in the University’s master plan and list of
strategic initiatives. “We want this search process to be as inclusive as possible. We are inter-
ested in what is best for W&L.”

An announcement of W&Ls next president is anticipated in early April.

Lad Sessions, acting dean of College and chair of the Presidential Profile Committee
said, “Our search will be national in scope and, like the previous search, will rely on contri-
butions from faculty, staff and other members of the University family. We also intend to
make extensive use of the W&L Web site to solicit input and keep the members of the
University community informed of our progress.”

During an open forum, held Sept. 19 in Lee Chapel, Barbara ‘Taylor, from the Academic
Search Consultant Service, invited, faculty, staff and students to share their views on the
challenges Wé&L. will face in the years ahead and the qualifications, skills and attributes the
committee should seek in the next president. Comments ranged from the importance of
Supporting ongoing alcohol initiatives and expanding diversity to maintaining small class
size and cherishing the University’s traditions.

If you would like to nominate a candidate, please send your e-mail to
presidentialsearch@wlu.edu or a letter to Professor Harlan Beckley, Presidential Search
and Screening Committee, 116 North Main, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450-0303.

 

Transition Team in Place

 

In a special meeting on Aug. 3, the Board of Trustees unanimously elected Laurent
Boetsch °69 as acting president of the University until a decision on W&L’s next
President is made.

The board also approved Boetsch’s appointments of W. Lad Sessions, the Jo M. and
James M. Ballengee 250th Anniversary Professor of Philosophy, as acting dean of the
College; Larry C. Peppers, dean of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics as acting vice president for academic affairs; and Kenneth P. Ruscio ’76, professor of
Politics, as acting associate dean of the Williams School. Elizabeth Oliver also is associate

d “
a o the Williams School, and Jeanine Stewart, an associate professor of psychology, is
associate dean of the College.

 

 

Presidential
Search Timeline

 

In September, Barbara ‘laylor from the
Academic Search Consultation Service was
hired and moderated an open forum to gather
information to develop a profile of the ideal
presidential candidate. Later, the Board of
‘Irustees approved the search process, key
committees and the resulting profile and

desired attributes.

October 200I - Early January 2002:
Search and Screening Committee will gather
the names and profiles of candidates and will
narrow the list to four or five candidates. ‘They
will forward the list to the ‘Irustee

Nominating Committee in early January.

February - March: Irustee Nominating
Committee will receive the recommendations
of the Search and Screening Committee, con-
duct on-campus interviews and deliver its rec-

ommendation to the Board of ‘Irustees.

March: ‘Irustee Nominating Committee
will present the presidential nominee to the

Board of ‘Irustees for a vote.

Late March/ Early April: Announcement
of the 23rd president of Washington and
Lee University.

 

 

Washington aud Loi EE eae

IMS CRS ee IS

“We want this search process

to be as inclusive as possible. We are

interested in what is best for W&L.”

  

—Frank Surface '60, rector

 

Presidential Attributes

 

The president of Washington and Lee University will be a proven
and energetic leader; a distinguished, well-rounded intellectual, ded-
icated to the life of the mind, who inspires, guides and responds
appropriately to all of the University’s constituencies. The president
must embrace wholeheartedly the Honor System and student self-
governance and preserve and promote the distinctive qualities of
civility, honor, integrity and community.

The president will be a collegial leader who should initiate and
administer change, when required, to enhance Washington and Lee’s
dynamic academic atmosphere and overall quality of life. This for-
ward-looking individual will understand the practices and expecta-
tions of the liberal arts and sciences, as well as preparation for profes-
sions, and graduate legal education. The president will appreciate the
benefits to be gained from a richer relationship between the under-
graduate and law communities. The president will have strategic and
global vision and will purposefully implement the strategic initiatives
framed by the Board of ‘Trustees.

The president should be prepared to act decisively for the common
good while soliciting and respecting views of diverse members of the
community. ‘The president will be an effective and inspirational com-
municator, in both internal and external settings, will ascertain the
need for financial and other resources and will enthusiastically lead
efforts to acquire them. The president will have strong business
acumen and skill in management of personnel.

The fulfillment of Washington and Lee’s educational mission will
require the president to discern the common spirit expressed in the
differing priorities of the groups who care for, work within and depend
upon the University. By embracing the common commitment to
excellence in teaching bolstered by scholarship and to augmenting
the reputation and financial well-being of the University, the president
will work to refine Washington and Lee’s intrinsic values by drawing
out the best from all of its elements. 4

To keep up with progress on
the search for W&L’s new president, go to

www.wlu.edu/presidentialsearch

 

_ Presidential Sea
& Screening Comm

  

Chair:
Harlan R. Beckley, @ztor of the Shepherd Program on Poverty
and Human Capability and the Fletcher Orey Thomas Professor of Bible

eg...
teers
Hes
+ %
=

Committee Members: |
Russell W. Chambliss '74, president of W&6L Alumni Association

[ooo ee See te ee ee ee 6 ee ee Re eee
asses
see
See
.

    
 

    
  

a
sees
ss
a
.

ee
=e es
ee
eee

  
   

Eee eee tee eee eet eee eee eee re ec, eee
*¢ 8 ¢e2, .

Se
ce

Jim Farrar '74, executive secretary for the
presidential search and secretary of the University

EE CR SRR RRR we eee ee ee Oe Re ee 888 8 8 e888 8 8 8 oe 8 ee ee

0 Ae ee ae ee eS 8S es 8 eee 8 ee 8 6 ee Ne 8 8 8 8 8 6 Se SS eS ee we

Randolph Hare, associate director
of physical plant

2 RR ROC OO OO 8 Oe 8 ee Oe ee ee eee 8 Oe 8 0 8 ee 6 8 6 ee 8 ee 6 8 ee

Linda M. Hooks, associate professor
of economics

ee ee Oe 6 8 OS 8 688 8 8 8 8 8S 8 ee Oe ee Oe ee ee a Se ew

CR Ce SCS RO Oe 8 Oe 8 ee 8 eee ce ee 8 ee ee 8 ee 88 8 8 8 8 ee ee ee 8 8

Suzanne P. Keen, professor of English Ag

HARLAN BEC
DIRECTOR OF T
seeps ees SHEPHERD PROGR.

David Millon, associate dean of the Law POVERTY AND HU

CAPABILITY AND”
School and the J.B. Stombock Professor of Law
FLETCHER OTI

THOMAS PROFES
OF BIBLE, CHAIR:
SEARCH COMMITTE

oe Oe 8 06 88 8 8 OE 8 88 8 8 8 88 6 8 a 8 eee 8 6s 6 ses 8 ee ek ee

Se ee ee ee Be a 8 8 ew Oe eee eRe Ree Oe 8 Oe ee 6 8 6 ee ae ee oe ee
Bet ce cane eee eee ee Pe ee ee ee ee ee est ee ea yet ee eee er ee ee

*
SOR Re ee Ree ee Ae ee Se eee 8 ee 8 8 ee 8 08 8 ke 6 8 8 8 8 0 6 se 8 6 8 8 8c 8 8 6 6 6a 6 6 8 88 8 ee eee

Larry C. Peppers, ating vice president for academic affairs and dean
of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics j

eoeoeeee ee
Oe A ee AO eee a 8 Re 6 OS 8 OS 8 88 6 8 8 86 8 88 a ea ee 6 ee ee 6 8 ee ee es 8 6 8 See

oR
oes 696 O ee
eee ee eee eee a Be SR eee Oe eee 8 88 oe 68 8 8 88 8 8 8 ae 8 ee OE We Wee oe 6 6 oe 8 8 3

W. Lad Sessions, chair, acting dean of the College and the Jo M.
and James M. Ballengee 48L 250th Anniversary Professor of Philosophy

CRC RRR RHR Ee ek eee ee eee ees | ree
+ 0 ee Oe 8 8 8 ew 8 8 6 8 68 6 6k we ee eo oe ek hk oe cs
#6 ee Bee so 6c sk ose we ec eek sie ee cc...
ee eee no
oe ee ccc ee ss...
<5
eee ee Oe 6 eee ee ee ee eee 88 ee 66 6 6S Se eS SON Sse eee eee eee ee ee eee
wee ees.

.
*
ea
oe
ese?
fe ee ee ee RR eee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee eee Re ee ge ae ee wee eg Bg ee ee ecw er mmc me we

 

Was hin g to n and fone ME Re U Bee | Mik © Ace te

 

Ww&L Says Good-bye

ele area Elrod: Leader, (eve

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 adi

r
re

™

 

iu

ea

‘.
ee

én President John W. Elrod died July 27 after a two-year battle with
he asked that no eulogies be spoken at his funeral service in Lee Chapel.

‘ypical of his humble nature. Yet many on campus felt they hadnt

7 chance to say good-bye. In these pages, we celebrate President Klrod’s

and share memories of our leader, our teacher, our friend.

 

 

 

 

 

The annual blessing of the animals at R.E. Lee Memonal
Episcopal Church is an autumn ritual in Lexington. Last year, Millie,
short for Millennium, a gray Siamese cat belonging to my wife, Molly,
escaped from the arms of Rev. Tom Odell and dashed up the hill. She
found sanctuary in the front porch crawl space under Lee House.
President Elrod, a cat fancier himself, led the rescue effort, crawling
under the porch on his stomach. He located Millie, and Mimi Elrod
sent in a dish of special cat food. Millie was captured and placed
safely in her carrier to the cheers of the assembled animal lovers.
—Dirck Brown
Lexington
Where to begin with such pleasant memories?
Shall I tell you about our “yogurt breaks” at 3 in the afternoon when
I was John’s associate dean and we would
make our way to the Co-op taking bets
on which flavors were available that day?
Or would you like to hear about starting
most of our weekdays with early morning
chats about books we were reading,
movies we had seen, family events we
shared? Perhaps you’d like to hear about
how we invented “Run and Shoot” when
bad weather forced us to do laps around
the basketball court in Warner Center
and how John made us play until he won?
I have 1,000 memories, all of them warm,
all of them human.
—Larry Boetsch '69
Acting President

Elrod led W&L
through some very rough
times. He loved W&L for its history
and tradition but also for the unique

President

capacity of its students to forge change
when needed. I recall speaking to him on
a number of occasions my freshman year
and then at his house for dinner in subse-
quent years, and he always asked ques-
tions and listened with interest. When he
asked, “Dan, what do you think we can do to...?” he was sincere.
Among some of my favorite memories of President Elrod:

Being greeted by President Elrod and Mimi during freshman
move-in day; being greeted with the same smile and handshake
each Parents Weekend (My mom would never leave until we got
to see President Elrod). Seeing him cheer at W&L sporting
events. Running into him along the Colonnade either early in the
morning or around 4:30 each afternoon—he would always say,
“Well, Hello, Dan!” Hearing him offer a sincere challenge to stu-
dent leadership on the issues of diversity and alcohol. Discussing
movies at one of the dinners he hosted each week. One time Mimi
looked across the table and said, “You know, John, I think we
should go see that “Boogie Nights” movie.” President Elrod

 

looked up, smiled, shook his head and simply said, “Mimi, I don’t
think that is our kind of movie!” It was hilarious.
—Dan Birdwhistell Ol
Gates Cambridge Scholar, University of Cambridge, Oxford
John had very broad interests and seemed to especially enjoy
conversations that were at an intellectual level. I remember a discussion
we had recently that centered around the scientific findings and philo-
sophical implications of using stem cells to treat human brain damage
and disease. I had just returned from three summer months in London
doing research with colleagues at the Institute of Psychiatry who Were
developing animal models of brain damage (memory related) and repair-
ing the damage by implanting fetal stem cells. John wanted to know all
about the research, and then proceeded to talk about the impact of these
findings from a philosophical point of view, |
came away from that conversation with John—
as was so often the case—having a much bet-
ter understanding of the broader implications
and the importance of the research. ,
—Len Jarrard
Robert Lee lefford Professor Ementus of Psychology
| have so many memories of him,
but one stands out in my mind—
when he invited the Women in Technology
and Science group over to his house. He real-
ly wanted to get to know all of us well, and
that was a very special experience for me.
— Shabboo Hosseini '02
John’s work schedule was legendary
on campus. We often received e-mails
sent at 5 a.m. Although we marveled at his
capacity for hard work, John was admired
and beloved more for his caring that every
faculty member flourish. We will continue to
be inspired by how he challenged, cajoled
and, mostly, supported us to do our best—
and usually as we defined it. I vividly recall
John agreeing to moderate a panel discus-
sion for a theological conference just weeks
after he became dean of the College in 1985. It was not convenient, but
John knew the conference was important to me and to the religion
department. His nurturing continued in his presidency. John was a
strong and constant supporter of the Shepherd Poverty Program. He
insisted on reading our annual report each year and mentioned in July
of this year that he was looking forward to receiving it. My friend
Charles Swezey °57, former dean of Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond, frequently reminded me how lucky we were to have a dean
and president as supportive as John Elrod.
—Harlan Beckley
Director of the Shepherd Program on Poverty and Human Capability,
Fletcher Otey Thomas Professor of Bible and chair of the Presidential
Search Committee (see page 17)

 

Washington and

Mi SAS Ge A ee ee eee

 

 

OLGA @

A 4

ee ee ee

OU eG UD

8

|

$s u

oe.

 

John was a great respecter of tradition. Not only did he

honor our community's many traditions, but if he saw a situation need-
ing a tradition, he could invent one on the spot. One of his favorites
‘avolved neckties: Should someone compliment his tie, John would
remove it and give it to him. “An old Southern tradition,” he explained.
This was news to me, despite being both old and Southern. I am there-
fore unclear whether this is a tradition of the traditional sort or one of
John’s making but, regardless, there are many proud owners of ties off
John’s neck. Once, John paid special attention to a tie I was wearing.
As he moved closer to examine it, its apparently abstract pattern
focused into Winnie-the-Poohs. His smile grew and he was about to
comment when | interrupted. “Sorry, John. It’s a gift from my grand-
son.” He laughed, but said no more. Thereafter, I was careful never
to comment upon any of his fine ties, so as not to upset the balance.
—H. Thomas Williams

Edwin A. Morris Professor of Phystes

and co-chair of the Alcohol Task Force
One of my last fond memories of John involved
Stuart, one of the Elrods’ cats. Stuart had determined
the Lee House too small an area of conquest, so he made it his mis-
sion to take over the campus. And take over the campus he did, as
only a cat can accomplish. I remember being in the gym one day
this past spring and seeing Stuart come strolling into the weight
room as if he’d just bought the place. The best part occurred when
One student informed another that this cat needed to be treated
carefully, as he was special—he had tenure. When I told the story
to John, he was absolutely delighted and speculated about some
means by which Stuart could be smuggled onto the promotion list
and granted at least Honorary ‘Tenure.

— Mike Pleva

Professor of Chemistry

While Sitting in Lee Chapel, I was struck by a feeling that

I reali 3 3
zed had been missing since graduation. I realized that one of the

STUDENT DINNERS
WERE A FAVORITE
OF THE PRESIDENT—
AND THE STUDENTS.

most magical aspects of W&L is
its ability to challenge all of us to
suceed beyond our own expecta-
tions, or beliefs. In some ways it
acts as a parent, to whom we owe
so much and by whom we have
been given so much, that our drive
to suceed is, in part, to make him
proud. That connection and rela-
tionship to a place as special as
W&L drives us beyond our own
self-imposed and externally imposed limits. I hadn’t realized that was
missing since leaving Lexington, or rather that the presence of such
inspiration is rare and unique to our University. In many ways I think
these qualities are manifested in President Elrod, especially in watch-
ing his triumphs while living with cancer. He was an amazing man
who made an amazing place all that much more special. He will be
missed and mourned, but his legacy will continue as it drives us
to succeed beyond any limits placed in our path.
—John Comly Ol
Past President, Executive Committee
Charlotte, N.C.
Growing up in Lexington, I first knew John Elrod
as the father of my friend Joshua. When] joined the
University Relations staff in February 1997 as director of W&Ls 250th
anniversary celebration, John became for me a new person—my boss.
As a member of his staff, he was wonderful to me, and I turned into
a regular visitor in his office. | am grateful to him for embracing my
work to help students and alumni celebrate W&L past and for
allowing me to help him use the events of the 250th—especially the
live satellite broadcast from the Lenfest Center—to share his
vision for W&L’s future. I consider myself fortunate to have known
him as I did, and I will sorely miss his friendship.
—Neil Penick
San Francisco
During the school year of 1987-88, I was in my senior year
and served as president of the Executive Committee. John Elrod was
dean of the College. This was a challenging time for many members of
our class, because we were the last to graduate as an “all male” class that
matriculated in 1984. Dr. Elrod took a personal interest in the mem-
bers of our class, wanting to ensure that we were not simply a footnote
in the University’s history, but rather an integral part of the institution.
— Brad Root '’88
Pittsburgh

 

Washington and

ite

bce WE Aico we I

NMR GAZ ok. NE

 

 

 

When I first came to W&L three years ago, my late
father (Vernon Holleman ’58) beamed with excitement at one last
opportunity to be a Washington and Lee parent. (My sister gradu-
ated in 1995.) I remember him reminiscing about the president of
W&L back when he was a student. President Francis Pendleton
Gaines knew every undergraduate’s name by heart. This struck a
cord when I thought of how most of my high school friends don’t
know who their college president is or even what they do.

I realized at that moment how unbelievably lucky I was to have
known John Elrod, not just from hearing a speech or two, but per-
sonally and informally.

During my sophomore year, Kappa Kappa Gamma hosted a
bowlathon to raise money for the American Heart Association in
honor of my dad. At the last minute, I decided to call the Elrods to
see if they might like to go. I knew President Elrod was sick. I
assumed he probably would not feel up to the task. I have never been
more touched when the Elrods appeared that evening wearing huge
grins on their faces, even though President Elrod was seriously
defeated by his very lucky, but embarrassed opponent.

— Lily Holleman '02
My son enrolled in Washington and Lee in the
fall of 1995. Moving my only child out of my home was a
terribly difficult thing to do. My wife and I appeared at Lee Chapel
in late August to hear President Elrod greet the parents of the class
of °99, His demeanor and wisdom immediately put us at ease.
He was a man into whose custody I happily turned over my son.

—Ronald T. Pfeifer

Green Bay, Wis.
| admired President Elrod’s unswerving commitment to
the new alcohol initiative, even in the face of criticism. I think it will
prove to be one of the most important parts of his legacy to W&L.
—Ann Whitham '03
Richmond
While many college presidents around the
country turn their back on alcohol and hazing
problems plaguing our campuses, John not only faced and
acknowledged these problems, but he attacked them resolutely.
It is thanks to him that Washington and Lee has taken concrete
steps to alter this situation.
—Eliza Warren (Richard '57)
New York
My description of John’s character and
personality isin two basic parts. First, he was a consummate
gentleman, which I would define primarily as one whose first
concern is for the feelings of those with whom he comes in con-
tact. Second, he said exactly what he meant, without equivoca-
tion. Some might say that these qualities are mutually exclusive
in this era. If so, they didn’t know John Elrod. 4
—Milburn Noell Jr. '51, '54L
Memphis, Tenn.

qualities of Washington and Lee. In establishing the University —

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
 
   
   
     
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
   

AS PRESIDENT,
John Elrod steered
significant growth

and dtversification and oversaw oo most drama
expansion of campus facilities ever undertake |

ee ec as eg
eee oe
ee ee
.

He spearheaded a visioning process that resulted in
University’s 2005 Strategic Initiatives, which are the object
the current capital fund-raising campaign (see page 23). W&
buildings reflecting Elrod’s input include the University’s fiv
building sorority complex, a parking garage, a new baseball fie
and other athletic fields, the recently launched construction |
W&Ls first University Commons, which will bear his name,
student fitness center and the complete renovation of Reid H
for the department of journalism. As dean, he had considerab
influence in the construction of the seven-story science cente

It was a result of Elrod’s wish to create a safer and healthier
campus environment that Washington and Lee developed the
University Initiatives on Substance Abuse, which became
effective this fall. He also led efforts to diversify W&Ls faculty
and student body, which now includes students from 47 states,
the District of Columbia and 31 foreign countries. |

In 1999, Elrod presided over the yearlong celebration of
Washington and Lee’s 250th aaa: as the ninth oldest co
lege in the nation. :

He oversaw a significant growth in endownilll from $190
million to $445 million, as well as growth in Annual Fund giving
and support from foundations and corporations.

It was during Elrod’s tenure as dean of the college that
Washington and Lee first was named among the top 25 liberal
arts colleges in the country by U.S. News © World Report 7
Under Elrod’s presidency, W&L has risen in the rankings to its
current position of 13. W&L’s School of Law also now ranks
among the top 20 in the country.

At the same time, Elrod refused to chit those unique —

roadmap in 1998, W&L rejected launching graduate programs
outside of law. It also declined expansion beyond its current
enrollment of 1,700 undergraduates and 365 law students to
focus instead on making —— and Lee the country’s j
a. student-centered unc a _

 

THE QUINTESSENTIAL SMILE: PRESIDENT El
WITH ALUMNI DURING REUNION WEEKEND IRI

 

Washington and

 

W...

    
 

MA GA ZIM Ef

 

 

"AVHSESQCVEGEG NVI AG SULUBG

TIAN

NOSNHOT

/
& «

9

qauavd aqdnv

AZ ISia M

“I

>
<
—
eS
>
seve
C)
7

    
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

ition experi-

a

j

ences growing pains.

Washington and Lee has

vars

 

 

 

 

 

come to several important
crossroads in its 252-year
history, beginning with

Gen. Robert E. Lees

decision to add journalism,

business and law courses

 

 

arts Curricu-

ey

to the libs

 

lum after the Civil War.
mr cach turn. foe
University has made bold

decisions ti

assure the
future of the next genera-

tion of stud and facul-

 

ty. loday, the University is

 

again at an important intersection if it wants to maintain its position as a leader in

 

  

 

liberal arts education. A master planning process, lead by the late President John W.

Elrod, resulted in an ambitious list of initiatives grounded in the school’s traditional

values and traditions to take Washington and Lee to the next level of excellence.
They all require a substantial financial investment.

In October, the University launched a “Campaign for the Rising Generation,”
With a

 

> million goal. It is only the fifth such campaign in the school’s history.

It addresses important physical improvements and academic goals.

 
 

‘rations that have gone before, the support of the Washington and Lee
family—alumni, parents, friends and faculty—will help secure the future, guarantee-

Ng a unique and enriching educational experience for students for years to come.

 

 

 

In the next decade, competition among universities will be keen for the best teacher-scholars and students. F nancial incen-
tives will be important to assure that Washington and Lee is able to attract those best suited to provide and receive a liberal
arts or legal education. The University also must make sure that academic programs are preparing students for careers and
intellectual opportunities that did not exist a decade ago and that technology can support and enrich the Cfforts of students
and professors. To that end, W&L seeks support for the Jollowing initiatives for the undergraduate and law programs:

TO STRENGTHEN W&L’S TEACHING FACULTY, INCLUDING
ENDOWED PROFESSORSHIPS: As many as 40 percent of the
faculty will retire in the next decade. At both the college and the School
of Law, endowed professorships and competitive salaries will be key
components in retaining and recruiting teacher-scholars. W&L also
hopes to increase support for faculty scholarship and professional devel-
opment through research support, lectureships and other programs to

invigorate the learning environment. Goal: $28.775 million.

 

TO FUND ADDITIONAL STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS: Equally, there is vigorous competition for top-
notch students. ‘To maintain a large and well-qualified pool of applicants for both the undergraduate and
law programs, and to increase the presence of students whose backgrounds and abilities are underrepre-

sented, an enlarged endowment is essential to increase need-based financial aid. Goal: $70.875 million.

TO DEVELOP A COMPREHENSIVE INTER>-
NATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAM:
The University has launched an effort to
make the campus a center for global
education, creating opportunities to study
international issues across the curriculum. We
want to develop a range of new overseas

ne ees | A ct ae opportunities for students and support the
Jorge Estrada ’69, owner of several Latin American businesses, came to Washington
and Lee on a scholarship, which he has not forgotten. He represents the best of W@Ls

tradition of “giving back.” He serves on the board of advisors for the Williams -
School of Commerce, Economies and Politics, he contributed a capital gift toward the hope to create opportunities for an interna-
Class of 1969 scholarship, and he has been active mn WEL student recruitment and tional faculty exchange. Goal: $4.25 millon.
internship efforts in Argentina. His daughter, Ana ’04, continues the family tradition.
She spent freshman year in Graham-Lees dormitory, just as her father had years ag0.

growing number of faculty whose research

has a significant international focus. We also

 

TECHNOLOGICAL ENHANCEMENTS FOR UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW SCHOOL PROGRAMS: To ensure that
students, faculty and staff benefit from developing technology, W&L seeks support to expand its technology-based teaching
and learning center and to bring libraries fully into the electronic age. ‘he University must maintain and continuously upgrade
its networked campus environment, including wireless technologies that allow off-campus University housing direct access to
campus servers. ‘he Law School is increasing dramatically the use of computing in its classrooms and clinics to enable it to

overcome its physical distance from urban legal centers. Goal: $15.75 million.

 

Wetie tap tes sind Cae We Ma GA 2 HS

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee faces a major challenge in upgrading tts physical facthttes. Facthtes are not luxuries.
The quality of the programs offered 1s, in large measure, influenced by the quality of the facilities in which
those activities occur. The Unwwersity ts cognizant of how much learning goes on outside the classroom.

This is why it is committed to creating facilities that will have a positive impact on student life.

CONSTRUCTION OF A UNIVERSITY COMMONS: Ground has broken for a new University Commons, a building that is

seen as the most important addition to the Washington and Lee community in years. It will provide vital new facilities and

replace aging and inadequate spaces. An expanded bookstore, a café, a movie theater, an outdoor amphitheater and computer

lab spaces are among new attractions. Student organizations will have more meeting and office space, dining facilities will be

expanded and undergraduate Career Services will move to enlarged quarters. Goal: $30 million.

ae : | 25 4

One outgrowth of major renovations on campus 1s
enhanced technological capability. For example, new
classrooms recently completed at the School of Law are

equipped with multimedia equipment that allows
professors to select video, computer display or overhead
projection and to lower viewing screens and change
lighting from a panel at their fingertips. Just as exciting
is access to wireless Internet throughout.

 

RENOVATIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW SCHOOL
PROGRAMS: It is essential that students and faculty working on new frontiers
at W&L do so in settings that support high achievement. Many of the exist-
ing facilities are not capable of meeting the demands of our every-changing,
technology-driven world. W&L will prepare Reid Hall to support the journal-
ism department’s “Education in a Digital World Initiative” through a com-
plete renovation and addition of cutting-edge communications tools that will
integrate print, broadcast and Internet mediums. Space will be renovated for
the ever-expanding program of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics
and Politics. DuPont Hall will be converted for additional classrooms or
offices. Law School lecture halls already have been reconfigured into state-of-
the-art classrooms that enhance student-faculty discussion appropriate for
small-group learning. More space is needed for clinical education, one of the
hallmarks of a W&L legal education. ‘The most dramatic enhancement to
Lewis Hall will be creation of a new entrance and common space to promote

collegiality and interaction between students and faculty. Goal: $24.85 million.

CONSTRUCTION OF AN ART AND MUSIC BUILDING: Since co-education, the number of art and music

majors has more than doubled. Classes are full and waiting lists long. The current building, duPont Hall, built in

1952, does not meet modern requirements for safety, ventilation and hazardous waste disposal. There is a lack of

studio space, and music practice rooms are inadequate and not soundproof. A new facility also would provide the

opportunity to expand the visual program, adding photography and graphic arts. Goal: $24 million.

CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION OF ATHLETIC FACILITIES: Athletics plays a
Central role in shaping the quality of the W&L experience. Historically, the University has
Committed itself to engaging in intercollegiate competition consistent with its educational

Missi es : : : :
ion, while ensuring that all students pursue the classical ideal of “a strong mind in a

sound body, :

vated . a : ‘ . .

to include a full-service fitness center and an expanded weight room. Wilson Field and
Practic lS eS

€ fields also will be renovated. ‘Uhese facilities will support a vigorous athletics program

that j
at includes 23 varsity sports and just as many intramural programs. Goal: $6.5 million.

‘fo continue this worthy purpose, the Doremus-Warner Center will be reno-

 

 

Washington a

 

les PO ALUN Oe ee

     
 
 
    

 

& Endowed Professorships

~@ Student Financial Aid

 

 

ae ‘Technological Improvements gee ort

a International Education

 

 

 

 

O©QOsodocodce

PHYSICAL TROGRAM

University Commons

Wilson Art and Music Building

Reid Hall Renovations

Co-op Renovations

Williams School Expansion

duPont Hall Renovations

Lewis Hall Atrium and Classroom Renovations
Fitness Center

Renovation of Athletic and Practice Fields

For information on the campaign’s progress, go to support.wlu.edu

 

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

INCREASING ALUMNI SUPPORT: Many people don’ realize that tuition and fees
cover only 70 percent of the cost of educating a Washington and Lee student. The remaining 30
percent ts financed primarily by endowment earnings and Annual Fund gifts.

While the University’s internally controlled endowment has grown to more than $400
million, spending an endowment’s principal defeats its purpose, which is to grow and
provide an ever-increasing and steady source of revenue. Often, too, portions of some
endowments are restricted for specific programs, scholarships and other objectives.

THIS IS WHY THE UNRESTRICTED ANNUAL FUND IS CRITICAL
TO THE WELL-BEING OF W&@L. Annual Fund gifts provide more
than $4 million for the University, including more than $525,000 specif-
ically directed to the School of Law, to support every facet of campus life.
It would take the income from an additional $100 million each year in
endowment to equal the amount of support provided by the Annual

Fund. A $5,000 contribution to the Annual Fund is the equivalent to the

 

revenue produced by $125,000 in endowment. One goal of the campaign
is to add donors at the $5,000 and $10,000 levels.

EACH ANNUAL FUND GIFT HELPS IN YET ANOTHER
WAY. External organizations, such as corporations and founda-
tions, look at fund-raising totals and alumni participation as
benchmarks in making decisions about grants. Another goal
of the campaign is to achieve a participation rate of 50 percent

of alumni in the Annual Fund. Overall goal: $20 million.

 

 

, u Oo8wCGn

Sateen

 

John Fa
ane of Hs firs
1957: Dr: Fi
University, &
ability to car

“That really

all about, Farm<¢
q resolve can res!
As a memD

Trustees and cli
Lee’s $225 millic

Generation, Fa

established by g¢
that of giving b
formal launch o!

Lexington on Ox
effort is aimed al
academic progr
ships, scholarshi

Robert E. Lé

of preparing fol

were chosen as |
paign. In a lett
College donor in

want of the coll

ings, suitable libr
cal and chemica!
endowment will
means of usefuln«
education to wo!
not otherwise obi
look to the rising

of this country, i

way than any ot!

The Washinet

century also is loo!

tion.” Said Farn

the very essence

Students and facy

A senior dir:
London. a trust

Los Angeles and
School in Londo:
of financial exp:
education to lead

cessful conclusic

Capital cam,

They are long, n

Payoff if one is a:

Prepare for a si
Within the last ;

°F independ.

Caring has en

money to meet

‘tures what character 1s
id. “To carry through on
na habit.”
* the W&L Board of
1an of Washington and
ampaign for the Rising
r is counting on a habit
itions of W&L alumni—
o the University. ‘The
campaign took place in
9 and 20. The ambitious
hancing and expanding

endowed _professor-

ildings and facilities.
derstood the demands

future, and his words

nspiration for this cam-
ritten to a Washington
8, he wrote: “The great
s more extensive build-
;, cabinets, philosophi-
yparatus, etc. A liberal

i

able it to enlarge the
to afford the facilities of
young men who might
1 one, and as we must

tion for the restoration

do more good in this

ind Lee of the 215*

2 to the “rising genera-
his campaign is about
hat W&L is all about—

for Goldman Sachs in
Occidental College in

irman of the American

mer has the right mix
> and leadership in
‘Lis campaign to a suc-

are like final exams:
ry but a source of great
© to what’s needed to

future, notes Farmer.

nearly every private
titution of higher
in a Campaign to raise
C needs.

Action

61 has never forgotten what he learned on
vys as a freshman at Washington and Lee in
is Pendleton Gaines, then-president of the
1 speech in which he defined character as the
ut a resolve after the mood has left you.

Like a student prepar-
ing for a final exam, W&L
did its homework before
crafting this effort. Born
out of what Farmer calls a
“bottoms-up” planning process
driven by the late President
John Elrod, strategic initia-
tives were derived from
input taken from students,
faculty, staff and alumni.
Money raised through the
campaign will fund the ini-
tiatives, which encompass
all facets of University life
(see pages 23-28). Whether
its an improved athletic
field, anew University Com-
mons, or a broader interna-
tional education program,
realization of each initiative
will provide W&L with the
resources it needs to remain competitive
with its peer institutions and to continue to
develop tomorrow’s leaders.

“It’s not a wish list,’ Farmer said. “We
need to get all of it done.”

Farmer, who has lived abroad since 1988,
is particularly enthusiastic about the initiative
for international education. He thinks it is cru-
cial to building the next generation of leaders.

“Students need to realize that even though
they’re in Lexington, they are part of the
global village,” he said. “No one lives in a
vacuum or isolation. Commercial, political or
religious events that occur around the globe
can’t help but affect other countries. Leaders
have to know what’s going on in the world.”

 

John Farmer ‘'6I Challenges W&L
Community to Give Back || Jill Kosch ’o0

     

JOHN FARMER ’61, CHAIRMAN

CAMPAIGN FOR THE RISING GENERATION

Retaining a dedicated and experienced
faculty is another challenge. With 40 percent
of W&Ls faculty scheduled to retire in the
next decade, funding for endowed professor-
ships and new and improved facilities will attract
faculty who are devoted to teaching, men-
toring and scholarship of the highest quality.

Driven by a sense of gratitude for what
he took away from W&L and for what it can
impart to those to come, Farmer will do his
part to see that it does get done.

“The Honor System had a profound
influence on me,” he said. “I’ve always found
that the way you conduct your business and
personal life is to take the highest road, in
terms of honesty and integrity. ‘UVhat’s an
ethic that stays with you through a lifetime.”

That ethic, he says, is what makes W&L
an institution deserving of support.

“W&L is a worthy institution,” he said.
“Tt differentiates itself from other liberal arts
institutions because of its culture and tradi-
tions. W&L must preserve those to remain a
preeminent institution. Alumni should be
very proud of W&L and treasure the time
spent there. ‘They should perpetuate the
values we learned there by giving back.” ©

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Histerian 2 B

as §

 

 

pent fevr decades trachin ¢

 

 

     

 

He’s bec
kidnappe
in Jord:
shot

in Leban

and throw

 

O)cia

one

He has watched
men pack homemade

bombs in Belfast.

Bell, known to friends as Bow, had no inkling when he
graduated from Washington and Lee that life would take
him on what he has called “repeated tours of the garden
spots of terror.” He envisioned a career in academe, possi-
bly teaching history. Indeed, with his long hank of thinning
hair and a few extra pounds around his midriff, Bell, at 69,
looks more like a retired dean than a veteran chronicler of
some of the world’s nastiest little wars.

But as Bell knows so well, appearances can be deceiv-
ing and usually are. Despite his professorial look and court-
ly Old South manners, he has spent the past four decades
following trouble, drawn to armed struggle like an inde-
fatigable moth to an inextinguishable flame.

His first tour of duty was in Northern Ireland in 1965,
and it was followed by visits to a whole alphabet of hot

spots, from Aden to Cyprus, Egypt, Eritrea, Palestinian

we. Oe a

territory and Zimbabwe. Along the way Bell produced

d

20 books, nearly 100 magazine and journal articles and a

A

documentary film. He has served as a ‘Il'V commentator

and as a consultant for law firms, the Nuclear Regulatory

oR.

Commission and the CIA. Somehow he also found time

uo

to churn out a sizable body of art criticism and to pursue

a lifelong passion for painting.

0 8

It has been a maverick life lived on the margins of

ke

several worlds. But Bow Bell has never done things the

Ee ae

conventional way.

“Normal scholars work out of universities, but [I’ve

‘

om never had a stable, satisfactory academic career,” Bell said
recently in his rambling, five-bedroom apartment on the
Upper West Side of Manhattan, where he lives surrounded
| by books and paintings, many produced by his own hand.
\nd he can’t er BH a “My scholarly methods don’t fit into any pattern. My
Riven rec i ; technique evolved into that of a social anthropologist—
shadowed. haraga that is, I talk to people and decide if they’re telling the
Sincere d robiil truth. What interested me is how these (guerrillas) work.
That’s a political science question. ’'m putting the answer
in the form of history, so I’ve failed to fit into three
Oiaarcomlmrle separate fields!”
xcept to VISit prisoners, ” He laughs at the notion of such a thorough, three-

owyer Bell °53, soundin @ pronged failure. “To understand why, you Z to under-

stand the peripatetic, idiosyncratic Bell famuly.

possibly even disappointed.

 

 

Bell’s grandfather, Farley Storrow Bell, left his home in Culpeper,
Va., after the Civil War because he refused to live under the yoke of
Yankee occupation. He drifted first to Mexico and then to ‘Texas,
where he became a ‘Texas Ranger and later, in the tiny town of Baird,
a judge of the hanging persuasion.

He returned to Virginia long enough to find a bride, Eugenia
Bowyer (pronounced BO-yer), then took her back to ‘Texas, where
Bell’s father, John Bowyer Bell, was born. Even as a boy, Bow Bell had
a nose for hot spots, which led him to befriend the bartender at
Baird’s notorious Blue Goose saloon. One day, as the boy peered
through the saloon’s window, a drunk patron started an argument.
When the man reached for his sidearm, the bartender produced a
double-barreled shotgun. Before the drunk could unholster his pistol,
the bartender discharged one barrel, then the other into the man’s
chest, killing him instantly.

Bow Bell was distraught that his father sentenced the beloved
bartender to one year in prison for murder. When the boy asked his
father why he imposed such a harsh sentence, the judge replied,
“Because of the second barrel.”

‘The Bells, it seems, have an innate appreciation for the delicate
politics of the gun. After attending ‘Texas A&M, Bow Bell married
Virginia Oliver and brought her to New York City, where J. Bowyer
Bell Jr., their only child, was born in 1931. Subsequent moves took
the Bell family to Philadelphia, and later to Birmingham, Ala., where
young Bow graduated from high school 1n 1949. It was a time when
Bull Conner, the police commissioner, was at the peak of his powers
and Jim Crow was the unwritten law of the land. Since eight Bowyers
had attended Washington and Lee, it seemed like the thing for J.
Bowyer Bell Jr. to do. Anything to get out of Alabama.

And so, much as his grandfather had drifted south to Mexico
and his father had drifted across the continent, Bell drifted north
to Virginia. He was delighted to find that W&L was small, its cam-
pus elegant, the atmosphere congenial. He looked around and saw
inveterate party animals mixed in with bright young men who
would go on to dazzling careers, including the artist Cy ‘Twombly
°53, the writer Tom Wolfe ’51, the journalist Roger Mudd ’50 and
the filmmaker Paul Maslansky °54.

Ill-at-ease with the brutal segregation he’d experienced in
Alabama, Bell fell under the influence of Dean James Leyburn, a pro-
fessor of sociology, who urged his all-white, all-male, generally
Southern charges to resist the easy comforts of conformity.

Bell recalls, “He would say, ‘Look at you! All dressed in identical
tweed jackets and khaki pants and striped ties! All conforming!’ Of
course he neglected to notice that he was wearing a tweed jacket and
khaki pants and a striped tie. But he was talking about senza/ confor-
mity, and I adopted his views on egalitarianism. When I went back to
Birmingham for the summer, I joined the NAACP.”

‘There was one other white person in the local chapter—he was a
Communist, for good measure—and Bell quickly learned that such

open defiance of conventions could be as distressing to blacks as it

was to whites. His membership in the organization was kept secret,
all correspondence arriving at his home in unmarked envelopes.
Even so, Leyburn’s lectures were having their effect.

Bell spent the summer reading, mostly literature, large helpings
of Faulkner. He hadn’t had a particularly sparkling freshman year,
and when he returned to Lexington in the fall, Leyburn summoned
him for a little talk. “He called me in,” Bell recalls with a chuckle,
“and asked me if I enjoyed being illiterate. I was the despair of the
English department. I was obviously bright, but I wouldn’t Write
properly. Spelling, punctuation, things like that didn’t matter to me”

At this unpromising moment, something monumental happened.

“My roommate, Parker Smith, urged me to skip political science
and take an art course. He said it would be easy. I discovered ] had
total visual memory—the equivalent of perfect pitch in a singer—and
it took about six weeks before I was doing things beyond the book.”
By the spring of his senior year Bell was ready for his first one-man
show of paintings at McCormick Library, dripping abstractions infly-
enced by Jackson Pollock. The Ring-tum Phi reviewer was confused.
Bell was delighted.

His college years were marked with trips to New York to meet
artists and visit galleries. He got acquainted with one of his idols, the
abstract expressionist Franz Kline, and was appalled to learn that Kline
was frequently so broke that he had to subsist on cigarettes and beer.

“When I saw that,” Bell says, “I decided I needed something con-
genial that paid money.” So he stuck with history and English and
painted on the side. Then he found his mentor. “The person I admired
most as an historian at Washington and Lee was Bill Jenks °39,” Bell
says of the legendary professor, now retired. “He was enormously
thorough. He was in many ways emotionless. He was an ideal exam-
ple of a professional historian. He and Dean Leyburn and the art pro-
fessor Marion Junkin were part of a new generation that brought
national academic standards to W&L.”

After graduation in 1953, Bell went to Duke for a doctorate in his-
tory. He plunged into his study of the diplomatic history of the
Spanish Civil War, but he was restless. When he won a Fulbright, he
left immediately for Rome, which he planned to use as a base as he
completed the research for his dissertation.

“Mostly I painted and met people and did things,” Bell says. One
of the people he met was the emerging art star Cy Twombly, whom
Bell had never formally met when they were undergraduates at
W&L. They bumped into each other at a flea market in Rome and
became fast friends. Bell sensed that Twombly was destined for
ereatness. When Bell went to Paris to conduct interviews for his dis-
sertation, he offered Twombly the use of his vacant studio. When Bell
returned to Rome, he found a handwritten note taped to his door:
“Beau (sic), Picked up shoes—come to opening. Like very much
your new things on wall. See you later at the gallery. Cy.”

Inside the studio there was a stack of drawings Twombly had exe-
cuted in Bell’s absence. Dissatisfied with them, Twombly refused to

d, Bell

sign them and insisted that Bell throw them out. Chagrine

 

Wheikhi eo Eee and

fies Me ee me

Macao GA 2b IN

 

 

 

 

OPENING SPREAD:
J. Bowyer Bell
ponders the state
of the world
in his Manhattan

apartment.

mee
ee
ek

Tee

e
ie

di ee

ssa

 

 

ABOVE:

Art took a
back seat to history
in order to pay bills,
but it remains an

ensuing Passion.

 

 

i ;
Washington ise eh e se AA: oS a ‘Mik @ AEC HR

complied. But he saved the note, and today it sits on a shelf in Bell’s
living room. At the recent Venice Beinnale, Bell’s early assessment
was vindicated when ‘Twombly received the prestigious “Golden
Lion” lifetime achievement award.

It was in Rome that Bell also decided on his way of telling histo-
ry. Rather than taking the traditional approach of examining archival
documents, he crisscrossed Europe, interviewing survivors of the
Spanish Civil War. It was a mix of detective work and journalism, an
unorthodox path he would use to great effect for the rest of his life.

While finishing his dissertation, Bell taught briefly in Statesboro,
Ga., then jumped at the chance to teach history and English at ‘Trinity
prep school in Manhattan. The job offered a steady income and the
chance to plunge into the vibrant late-’50s New York art scene. “It
was a very interesting world,” Bell says. “There had been nothing
like it since Paris before World War I.”

One night he might see the writer Delmore Schwartz passed out on
the bar at the White Horse ‘Tavern. ‘The next night he might be at the
Cedars, drinking and talking art with Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper
Johns or Frank Stella. Jack Kerouac and his fellow Beats haunted the
night. The world was lush with possibility when reality interfered again.

Bell, who describes himself as a “second-generation Abstract
Expressionist,” participated in several group shows at Allan Stone
gallery uptown. However, abstract expressionism was running out of
gas; pop art and minimalism were on the horizon. Frank Stella was
putting black stripes on canvases—and making good money doing it.
“But I didn’t want to paint black stripes,” Bell says. “I wasn’t going to
be an enfant terrible. My work was going to change slowly, and at the
time it had no constituency or prospects.”

Bell also had met Charlotte Rockey, a student of Egyptology
at the New School, who had a daughter by a previous marriage.
‘They were married in 1962 and would eventually have three
daughters of their own. With little enthusiasm for teaching prep
school, with few prospects for his art career and with mouths to
feed, Bell made a pivotal decision.

“I decided to write my way back into academia,” he says.
“At the time, military history had the same status in academia as
crossword puzzles.”

So military history it would be.

 

While teaching history at “possibly the worst university in the
Northeast,” the New York Institute of ‘Technology, Bell produced
two books, Besieged and The Long War, which chronicled, respectively,
seven modern urban sieges and the Arab-Israeli conflict since 1946.
He was on his way.

And then the central event of Bell’s life happened to him. Ireland
happened to him.

“T never planned on Ireland,” he would write years later. “I

never foresaw an involvement in Irish matters. In 1965 I came to

 

write one book, spend a pleasant summer by the Barrow River,
have a family vacation and enjoy the country. That was to be all.
Instead I could not get away, ever.”

For starters, Bell was enthralled by the people. “The Irish are more
alien than anyone I’ve encountered, other than the Arabs,’ Bell says. “It’s
disguised because they speak English. But everything is done inside
a complex of favors, influence, debts. It was a cultural revelation.”

And then Bell became enthralled by the Irish Republican Army, which
was in a state of disarray but on the verge of becoming front-page news.

He learned little about the IRA during that first trip, except that
it was illegal and its members elusive. But he made contacts with sev-
eral IRA gunmen, won their trust and he started doing what he had
done a decade earlier while writing his Ph.D. thesis. “I discovered
that no one had kept records since 1916, so I decided to go out and
talk to people. It turns out that changed my life.”

He didn’t conduct formal interviews. Instead he carried on two-way
conversations, melting distrust, building intimacy. When Bell talks toa
guerrilla, he wants to know not only what kind of gun the man prefers,
but also what kind of beer he drinks. Bell calls the process “osmosis.”

It was a thoroughly unacademic approach, and it worked. In 1970,
after repeated trips back to Ireland, after tens of thousands of hours of
conversation, Bell published a stunning book, The Secret Army:
The IRA 1916-1969, just as tensions in Northern Ireland were return-
ing to one of their cyclical boiling points. He dedicated the book to
his W&L mentor, Bill Jenks.

Bell had found his true calling at last. Financed by a patchwork of
book contracts, lecture fees, research grants and fellowships, he
roamed the globe dissecting the role of the gun in politics. He went
to Africa, to Europe, to the Middle East and, always and forever, back
to Ireland. Wherever he went, he looked for the same thing.

“T was always looking for how revolutionary organizations
work, their dynamics, the ways they’re similar and the ways they're
different. If there is any conclusion, it’s that their strategies are all

extremely primitive. Once they get started, the major thrust 1S to

 

Licn GME “KAt. ube anit. SM eal en ick ee

 

 

 

 

 

eoing. Guerrillas learn on the job. The

keep

) to be a gunman is to do it.”

In 1981, while Bell was shuttling between

Washington and
ter he married Nora Browne, a fiery-

Europe, Charlotte died of cancer.

Four years la
haired [rishwom
while filming 2 ¢

now teaches Eng!
x, a job that sends shivers through her war-

an he’d met a decade earlier
jocumentary on the IRA. She
ish at a tough high school in the

Bron
hardened husband.
Perhaps the crowning achievement of Bell’s career was his 1993

book The Lrish Troubles: A Generation of Violence 1967-1992. It’s an
astonishing, 854-page testament to Bell’s dogged research, sharply

ana
the book has a dreamy quality, like cottony Irish fog.

lytical mind and unique style of writing. For all its hard research,

“\ monumental narrative history,” The Atlantic Monthly gushed.
“Monumental in two senses: in its 854 small-type, weekend-killing,
engagement-canceling pages, and in its scholarship, style and
great-book tone.”

“A penetrating treatment,” added Zbigniew Brzezinski, former
national security advisor. “Analytically detached and yet histori-
cally intimate.”

Roaming the world looking for trouble has not provided a steady
diet of drama and intrigue. In addition to kidnappings, gunfights and
bombings, there have been numbing hours of boredom, hours of
waiting for interview subjects who fail to show up or have nothing
to say. Understandably, the romance is gone.

“I’ve used up all my enthusiasm for travel,” Bell says. “You get
tired. It’s like being a traveling salesman, mostly depressing, things
like waiting for something to happen. And then, some of the more
exciting and violent places are of no value if everyone’s shooting

instead of talking to you.”

 

Having said that, he spent the summer back
in Ireland showing a series of small erotic paint-
ings at a Dublin gallery, visiting his wife’s home
in County Kerry and submitting once again to
the pull of a place that won’t let him go.

Is he optimistic that peace may come to that
war-ravaged land? “Prediction is not my game,”
Bell says. “But my guess is that the peace
process is inevitable. At the moment there ts
no serious constituency for a return to violence.
There are people performing violent acts, but they have not
recruited well. People involved with the gun today are isolated
and have no viable constituency.”

On Oct. 24, Bell’s “guess” seemed right on target. ‘The Irish
Republican Army declared it would begin to dismantle its arsenal of
weapons and bombs from its decades-long war, saving the 1998
Northern Ireland peace agreement from collapse. Pressure on the
IRA had increased dramatically after revelations that three IRA mem-
bers had met with leftist rebels in Colombia in August and with the
global war against terrorism following the Sept. 11 attacks in the U.S.

You get the feeling Bell will work until he drops. He still teaches
one course a year at Columbia called “Terrorism and Low-Intensity
Warfare.” He continues to churn out art criticism and new paintings
and new ideas for new books.

One sentence from a recent piece of Bell’s art criticism could
stand as a motto for how he has lived his life: “Making art is like being
in the grip of an incurable disease.”

“Every time I finish a book I say, “That’s it.’ But now I’m
working on the relationship between crime and politics—and
that may take me back to Ireland as a subject.”

Bell’s voice trails off. There will always be an excuse to go back to

Ireland, the place where he flowered and became what he ts. +

(Bill Morris is a free-lance writer who lives in New York.)

   

dea

ie

After spending an idyllic summer in Ireland
showing his paintings and refreshing his con-
facts, Bow Bell returned home to New York
over Labor Day weekend. Nine days later,
‘Wo jets smashed into the twin towers at the
World ‘Trade Center, killing thousands and
bringing the horror of global terrorism home
for all Americans.

Naturally Bell, a longtime student of
ogy movements in Northern Ireland,
saa the Middle East, was mesmerized
ot chilling images on his TV screen. The

ay atter President Bush laid out his plans for

a “war” on terrorism to Congress and a nation-
al television audience, Bell shared his
thoughts on what lies ahead for America.

“Tt definitely indicated that terrorism is
still a growth industry,” Bell said of the syn-
chronized attacks on New York and
Washington. “The medium in which these
groups grow Is still there. ‘hey still want to
change history; but barring that, they want to
punish people. In essence, if all the people
involved disappeared tomorrow, we would still
have an international terrorist threat. “Uhat’s
the nature of the world order today.

“We just have to recognize that the world
is more dangerous and complicated than we
ever imaged,” Bell says. “Americans want
immediate solutions to things, but long-term
shifts in attitudes are what’s needed.”

‘Though not given to making predictions,
Bell does see one ray of hope in this unfolding
national nightmare. “I don’t see anything like
this happening again for a while,” Bell says.

Yet a lifetime spent touring the garden
spots of terror has taught him never to say
never.

—Bill Morris

 

Wash i

Hg § oN and

 

eae Ue

M A GA Zi NE

 

By Deborah Mar ai ar

 

_ Family ties. As the images of the fiery World ‘Irade
Y Center buildings and the hole in the side of the

The Da
Pentagon begin to fade, the thing we won’t forget is the role that
technology played in the day’s events. Cell phone calls from crashing
airplanes and e-mail messages exchanged between loved ones and
friends brought the horror home in a very eerie and immediate way.

W&Ls Alumni Office reacted quickly. Colin Tate ’01, assistant
alumni director for on-line communications, set up a special place on
the Alumni home page where alumni from Washington and New
York could check in and share their stories. Between Sept. 11 and 15,
more than 157 messages were posted. Some were simple, “I just
talked to (name) and he (or she) is OK.” Others put us there.

James Ambrosini ’90 wrote: “My train
pulled in under the WTC right after the first
attack. . . .Police told us to evacuate because
there was a bomb. We all ran outside to a
scene of utter chaos. There were people lying
in the street covered with blood and [there
was] debris everywhere. I looked up and saw
a huge hole in the top [tower] with flames
spewing out. People were jumping out. |
couldn’t believe my eyes.”

From Marshall Snyder ’77, “Since retir-

one to which we awoke

ing from the Marine Corps in 1997, I have

been supporting the Pentagon Renovation

coe eeee

program as an engineer. .. .[ was in Wedge 1

off Corridor 3 in the C-Ring conducting a

“In accordance with
our educational mission,
| would ask that our
response to today’s events
include serious reflection
and discussion of the many
issues raised for our futures.
The world in which we live
now is different from the

this morning.”

 

pre-move survey when the airplane hit the E-Ring at Corridor 4
several hundred feet away. I felt and heard a double thump. . . I
went out in the corridor and saw crowds of people heading for
escalator banks. . . .Several people that I worked with closely are
missing and presumed dead. Most of what I worked on for the
past year has been destroyed by the crash and fire. After having
served in Grenada, Beirut and Desert Storm, the irony of almost
having been killed in the Pentagon isn’t lost on me.”

Many messages asked for prayers for friends, family and co-work-
ers. And others asked the questions to which there are no answers:

Peter Cavalier ’76 worked in midtown Manhattan and was not
hurt, but the pain was just as real. “The horror of the past week
really hit me when I attended a memorial
Mass in our town. Our parish lost 72 people
(yes 72), mostly Cantor Fitzgerald employees.
One of them is our neighbor, a single working
mother who leaves behind a 17-year-old high
school senior who also lost his uncle in the
explosion. He is now all alone. I just read this
morning in the local paper about my twin
sons’ basketball coach who perished..--
Several other fathers of children in my sons
classes are unaccounted for. As a parent of
three teen-aged boys, I’m fielding questions I
never anticipated about life and death, reinstl-
tution of the military draft. There are some

things I don’t have rational answers for.’

esoveee

 

 

Was hited gt eo 8 and

 

 

family, we

As a W&L
aaffered losses and grieved
a er. James A. Gadiel ’00
52) worked at the
s trading firm of
id. which suf-

Bigiou

Cantor Fitzgeralc
{ the most losses of all the

ferec
firms—more than 600. ‘The

company occupied floors 101
co 105 of Tower 1 of the World
Trade Center, the first to be
hit. Rob Schlegal °85 (see
page 52) died in the Pentagon,
just W eeks after earning a pro-
motion to commander. Chris
Edwards 99 lost an aunt and
uncle on the flight that crashed into ‘lower One. Jonah Glick 790
lost a brother, Jeremy, one of the heroes on the flight that crashed
in Pennsylvania. A current student lost a parent, but the family
requested that the name not be released.

Carrie Baker Tydings 95, director of media relations for the
National Cathedral in Washington, helped organize the national
service where we prayed for them all.

On campus, The Executive Committee urged students to give
blood. Some drove all the way to Charlottesville to do so. “It’s some-

’

thing we have the power to do,” said ‘Iran Kim 705. ‘The morning
ration of “Campus Notices” in our daily e-mail was punctuated with
invitations to prayer services and messages such as this one from
Shehzad Khan Niazi ’02, “The Muslim League would like to
express its sorrow and to offer its condolences to everyone affected
by the tragic events that unfolded yesterday. We deeply mourn the
enormous loss of life and strongly condemn the brutal and horrible
acts of terror. Our prayers are with you.” Later, in The Ring-tum PM,
Niazi said, “Hatred is the source of such devastation and has
never done any good in this world.”

Faculty members, such as Tim Lubin, assistant professor of
religion, posted helpful Web links. Sites devoted to topics such as the
Islamic responses to the Sept. 11 attacks (www.wlu.edu/~lubint/) fur-
thered our understanding of the events. John Blackburn, an instruc-
tional technology specialist at Leyburn Library, built a site with
facts on Afghanistan (Williams.wlu.edu).

Terry Vosbein, associate professor of music
Currently serving as a visiting fellow at University
College, Oxford, penned a composition called

A Prayer for Peace” for string orchestra and
Posted it to the Web free to anyone who wanted
C0 perform it.

With a tragedy of this scale, we all look
°F Ways to contribute.

The question now is,
“What next?”

And After

A
cting President Larry Boetsch ’69 answered
It for us in

a message sent to the University

STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF GATHERED ON THE FRONT LAWN
FACING LEE CHAPEL AT 9 P.M. ON SEPT. 11 TO OBSERVE A ONE-HALF
HOUR SILENT VIGIL TO MOURN THE NATIONAL TRAGEDY.

 

Rebel Beas ee Within he TI
/ (Soul by Kevin Toolis.

Ti he Battle ie God bs ree Armstrong

 

community on Sept. 11: “In
accordance with our education-
al mission, I would ask that our
response to today’s events
include serious reflection and
discussion of the many issues
raised for our futures. ‘The
world in which we live now 1s
different from the one to which
we awoke this morning.”
Washington and Lee faculty
responded quickly with course
offerings for winter term.
Robert Strong, professor of
politics, will teach a course on
terrorism. ‘he class has been
opened to all students, and so many have expressed an interest, he
will teach three sections. Students will be treated to several guest lec-
turers, some from the W&L faculty and others from outside. “The
course will not just be focused on Sept. 11, but it will be broader
based,”
Richard Marks, professor of religion, will teach a course on Islam.

says Strong. “We want to look at what motivates terrorism.”

“This course provides a general view of Islam, not just fundamental-
ism,” he says. However, one of the books students will read is Karen
Armstrong’s The Battle for God, which discusses fundamentalists
movements among the Jewish, Muslim and Christian faiths.

William Klingelhofer, an art historian by training who 1s director
of international education, will offer a course on Islamic art and
architecture. The course will provide a cultural and historical
perspective, which, he says, is important at this time.

History Professor Barry Machado is noticing unusual interest
in his course on 20th century military and diplomatic history—
more than double the usual number of students.

Meanwhile, throughout campus, discussions are popping up in
nearly every discipline, and events continue to touch lives here.

Several reservists in the University family have been called
or expect to be:

Mark Fontenot, Greek housing supervisor, serves with a Virginia
Air National Guard fighter wing unit servicing F-16s near Richmond;
the planes are flying daily Combat Air Control missions. Paul Burns,
University safety officer, serves with the U.S.
Army Reserves as a chaplain, and Scott Rhodes,
assistant director, physical plant, serves with the
U.S. Navy Reserves, attached to Combat
Amphibious Group 2, headquartered at Little
Creek Naval Base in Norfolk,

W&L also has four students in the Reserve
Officer Training Corp. (ROTC), two freshman,
one junior and senior Quincy Springs, head
of Interfraternity Council, who will be
commissioned in the Army on June 5, the
day before his graduation.

The aftershocks of Sept. 11 will be felt for

a very long time—even in Lexington. *

 

Washington and

 

—— Oe

Wie a ae ee a EE

PHOTOS BY PATRICK HINELY ‘73

 

 

      

CLUSTER REUNIONISTS POSE FOR PICTURES WITH FRIENDS.

Homespun Fun

ington and Lee at its finest. Mother Nature spun red and gold through
the trees and dazzled with crisp autumn temperatures. Athletic teams
wowed with wins, academic seminars on politics, history and law satisfied
intellects and social events soothed spirits. And for the body, the Outing
Club sponsored guided hikes of House Mountain and Goshen and tub-
ing and a canoe trip on the Maury River.

Members of the class of 1951 earned rank as Five-Star Generals, and
were treated to a special reception and banquet at the Lexington Country
Club. Also returning were classes of 1946, 1941, 1936 and 1931. Younger

poe eee reunionists—classes of 1998 to 2001—gathered at Liberty Hall Ruins for

SARASOTA, FLA., PROVES
YOU RE NEVER TOO OLD. a tasting of Virginia wine.

‘The men’s soccer team beat Hampden-Syndey 1-0 on Friday night
and rallied again on Saturday for a 3-1 victory over Roanoke College. The
women’s soccer team beat Ferrum College 7-0, and the volleyball team
spiked a 3-0 win over Eastern Mennonite University. But there’s nothing
like football for homecoming, and the Generals rose to the occasion,
defeating Catholic University 18-12. Fans gathered at Liberty Hall Ruins
for a pre-game “Mink Rally,” featuring an alumni and student luncheon
with the faculty and the ‘Tony Hawthorne Band.

Only the field hockey team lost to Lynchburg College 0-1 on the — | Ji? na
new artificial turf field. Club sports fans cheered for the Minks in a rugby
contest against William and Mary, with W&L winning 19-7.

‘Tours and an address by acting President Larry Boetsch ’69, “W&L

a | RUNNER-UP AGNES FLAK ”
oe ee se Today,” gave returning alumni much to see and think about, as many DORTMUND, GERMANY, WIT
SAMPLES OF RECENT VINTAGES oe ; | ot pee

FOR THE CLASSES OF 1998, exciting developments in the classroom and on the campus captured their ESCORT, RAPHAEL F®

OF SAO PAULO, BRAZI

 

1999, 2000 AND 2001. attention.

 

 

mo. 7931—S”
enry Mahler Jr.

The Rev ee God hit 90 last
4 c He and his wife, Beth,
a been living comfortably and
tedly for the last five years
: Westminster-Canterbury
t Community in Lynch-
heir three children, two
law and a grandson
all live 10 the Lynchburg area.
\fahler plays pool every weekday
moming, gardens in season, teach-
es a Bible class every Monday and
preaches twice a month at a coun-
ery church in Bedford County.

Retiremen
burg, Va. T
daughters-1-

ma 1939—<”
George W. Wilson
and his wife, Helen, are still kick-
ing along after 59 years of marriage.
They are enjoying retirement,
wintering in Tampa, Fla., and sum-
mering in northern Michigan.

_o|6?4 O41 —C”

Henry T. Crocker Jr.

curned 85 on May 27. He contin-
ues to mark time in his retirement
home in Lancaster, Pa., but
laments he has yet to find a retiree
who attended W&L and should
have waited for Kendal at
Lexington.

Richard M. Herndon

enjoyed three weeks in Austria
and Prague. He lives in Winter
Springs, Fla.

Dr. Robert E. Lee

was elected council president at
Deerfield Episcopal Retirement
Community. He is working to
establish instant runoff voting, also
Known as preferential ballot, in
North Carolina.

“29— 1942»
Custave A. Essig
turned 86. He is a retired nuclear
physicist and has been a member
of the American Physical Society
for 55 years. He lives in Muiamis-
burg, Ohio.

Dr. Robert L. Pinck
retired last April and is living in
Luzern, Switzerland.

mee — 1943 o>
Linton F. Murdock
IS stil] Swimming in the master’s

ro i
— He lives in Santa Barbara,

pussell H. Neilson
7 fly fishing, hunting, golf and
Mg with his four grandchil-

dren. He leaves the gardening to
his wife, Anne. ‘They have learned
to love the desert country in
Scottsdale, Ariz.

John P. Scully Jr.

reports that his golf game is slip-
ping—he’s afraid ‘liger Woods
could beat him! He practices his
game in Westfield, Mass.

Q.._ 1945 —<>

Richard E. Bartlebaugh
shuttles between his two homes in
Ohio and Hilton Head, S.C. He
now has two grandchildren in col-
lege, with only nine more to go.

Oo 1949 —C°>

Thomas S. Hook Jr.

shared an anecdote with celebrat-
ed alumni author Tom Wolfe ’51 at
a talk at Johns Hopkins University.
The late Dr. George Foster had
them both in his American litera-
ture class, in different years. In
1951 Dr. Foster answered Hook’s
letter to him, thanking him for his
inspirational courses, by writing, “I
have a lad now who can really
write. His name is ‘Thomas
Wolfe—not the ‘lom Wolfe!”
Hook says it was the writer from
Asheville that they then all
admired. Hook lives in Baltimore.

H. Thorp Minister Jr.

saw Ken Stark ’50 and received a
call from Paul Root °50. Minister
lives in Columbus, Ohio.

OQ 1950——>

Cc. Samuel Engle

wants to remain a Liberty Hall vol-
unteer in the tradition of the
Scotch-Irish who founded it.
Engle lives in Mill Spring, N.C.

Dr. Howard L. Steele

reports that HL Steele, an eco-
nomic consulting business, is up
and running. His new book, hood
Soldier will be published sometime

this year by  Ravensyard
Publishing Co. He lives in Fairfax,
Va.

O__ £1953 — <C>

John D. Heard

continues to enjoy retirement and
travel. He lives in the Dallas area,
making it easy to head west to visit
his son in California or east to see
friends and family in Virginia.
Easiest of all is visiting his daugh-
ter just down the road in Houston,
only 275 miles away.

Samuel K. Patton
still does some consulting in com-

fe A eT ed ee es ed ae, ee

 

puting systems and teaches the
occasional computer course at
Marist College. He serves on a
number of volunteer boards, and
was just elected to the New York
State Association of Library
Boards. He lives in Hopewell
Junction, N.Y.

Dr. Melville P. Roberts Jr.
retired as the Scoville professor of
neurosurgery at the University of
Connecticut School of Medicine.
He is now emeritus professor of
surgery and lives in London. He
continues to be active in the
British Society of Neurological
Surgeons.

OW 1954—S>

Bertram S. Criffith Jr.
enjoys retirement and plays a lot of
golf. He looks forward to his 50th
class reunion in 2004. He lives in
Fenton. Mich.

The Rev. Richard T.
Harbison

and his wife, Cornelia, returned to
their home in Lynchburg, Va., after
his having served as interim pastor
of Myers Park Presbyterian
Church in Charlotte, N.C., for 18
months.

Clenn Allen Scott

retired from his post as associate
editor of The Virginian-Pilot, after
nearly 45 years at the newspaper.
He now works as an independent
journalist.

Dr. Harry C. Sherman
still practices surgery, despite two
new knees. He lives in Augusta,

Ga.

The Hon. Patrick D.
Sullivan

plans to take senior status in 2002,
after completing his 34th year on
the Indiana Court of Appeals.
Sullivan says he can’t totally retire
but will work 100 days a year
because he’s been told he can’t
play golf eight days a week. He
lives in Indianapolis.

The Hon. Anthony Valen
was elected administrative judge
of the 12th District Court of
Appeals of Ohio. He now has nine
grandchildren. He lives in
Middletown, Ohio.

Oo 1955 —c—>

William H. Bartsch

travels the world as a consultant on
national human resources planning
for the U.N., World Bank and
USAID, when not working on his
book on the Pacific War. His latest,
The Other Pearl Harbor, has been
accepted for publication by ‘Texas
A&M University Press.

Oo 1956 —S>

Dr. Charles E. Dobbs

works part time as a senior M.D. in
a large hematology/oncology prac-
tice in Louisville, Ky. He also
keeps busy gardening,  visit-

ing grandchildren and _ traveling
around the world.

The Rowe family held a reunion in Fredericksburg, Va., on Sept.
2. Attending (from left): A. Prescott Rowe 60, Chares S. Rowe,

45, °50L, Josiah P. Rowe III ’48 and John Prescott Rowe ’87.

 

 

 

Dr. Michael R. Dubin
received the 14th Annual
Christmas Seal Hall of Fame
Award at the annual meeting of the
American Lung Association of
New York State. ‘This award recog-
nizes “individuals who have signif-
icantly contributed to the further-
ance of the lung health movement
within New York State.” He lives
in Glen Cove, N.Y.

“a... 4 OS 7 a>

Donald W. Harper
is retired and residing in Ford’s
Colony, Williamsburg, Va.

Isaac N. Smith Jr.

was named Volunteer of the Year
2000 by the Charleston Renais-
sance Corp. for his generous con-
tributions and efforts. He lives in
Charleston, W.Va.

O— 1958 —&»

Robert P. DeCraaf

has been working in New York
City for four years now, renovating
a few of the city’s 1,200 public
schools, as well as building a new
one. He’s about to embark on the
renovation of some of central
Newark’s important derelict build-
ings. After a year or two more of
urban renewal he hopes to return
to his home in the hills of Umbria,
the green heart of Italy.

co. 49 59 ~—— >

Theodore R. McKeldin Jr.
became a first-time grandfather
last Halloween. His part-time job
in the state attorney general’s
office is now full time, so much for
semi-retirement! He lives in
Baltimore.

Jan. -

| ee

Feb. :

 

2002

Meet Your ke ae On the Slopes

Keystone,

Colo.

Don’t miss the second annual “Minks on the Moguls,” a terrific opportunity for family fun in

Keystone, Colo. The Washington and Lee Alumni Association organized the trip for the first

time last year, and the event was so popular, participants begged for a second chance. There js

something for everyone packed into four wonderful days.

Schedule of Events:

Wednesday, Jan. 30:

Arrival

Welcome ‘Tex~Mex reception and dinner
Entertainment by Chris Edwards ’99

Thursday, Jan. 3:

Skiing and other resort activities

CLE program (three hours) “Legal Malprac-
tice Trends in the 21st Century”

Dinner

Entertainment by Bruin “Mittens”

Richardson ’86 at the piano

Friday, Feb. I:

Skiing and other resort activities

NASTAR race and clinic presented by David
Johnston 91 and Jason Rosener, of the U.S.
Ski ‘Team

Apreés ski party with entertainment by Swing Crew

Dinner on your own

Package Rates:

Saturday, Feb. 2:
Skiing and other resort activities
“Fancy Dress West” (that means “casual”)
Reception at ‘The Summit
“Fancy Dress West” Feast
“Minks on the Moguls” Awards Ceremony

Sunday, Feb. 3:

Departure

 

eh AE TO, S95 ig te, 8

 

‘The W&L group will be headquartered at the

WILLIAM MONROE yeas) ee
ae
ee a

o—_- § 8 SO —__—->

H. Tudor Hall lll

retired after over 28 years with
Cessna Finance Corp. His final
post was in Columbus, Ohio,
where he was sales manager for the
eastern region and covered 17
states in a Cessna single engine alr-
craft. Hall married a Buckeye lady,
Kathleen Nalle, in March 1997.
His new full-time career is trying
to reduce his 6 handicap now that
he can play weekdays, too.

River Run Condominium Village at Keystone Resort.
River Run is within walking distance of ski lifts and

 

gondolas. The village boasts many opportunities for
shopping, dining and recreation. Those who don’t ski can choose from plenty of other activities.

River Run lodging consists of single, double and triple bedroom units. Each condo unit is
equipped with a full kitchen, bath, gas fireplace, sleeper sofa, balcony and cable TV/VCR. Ski
lockers and parking are provided. Open-air hot tubs and pools are located throughout the River
Run Condominium Village.

“Minks on the Moguls” package rates are dependent upon occupancy and the number in
the party. Rates range from $850 to $1,600 per person. A sample package is $1,100 per person
Paul R. Plawin based on double occupancy in a one-bedroom condo at River Run Village. Discounted rates are
retired last year, but continues to
work on his third book and the
launch of a Web site (www.hon-
orelvis.com). He and his wife,
Joan, also dote on their five grand-

children. W&L classmate Jack
Hopkins spent a few days with

available for children 12 and under.

W&Ls special package consists of lodging, two-day lift tickets, and dinners, receptions listed and
entertainment listed above. For more information, please check out our Web site,
alumni.wlu.edu/Colorado2002, or call the Alumni Office at (540) 463-8464 or e-mail us at

alumni@wlu.edu.

 

fee Pa ALuMNG

Wi acsh iw g tien and M A> GA 2) Pee

 

them in June. Plawin lives in
Gainesville, Va.

mam 1961—<>
Allen B. Dakin Jr.
and his wife, Virginia, celebrated
their 41st wedding anniversary.
They live in Trenton, N.J.

Dr. William N. Offutt IV
continues ophthalmic plastic surgi-
cal practice in Lexington, Ky., and
is a clinical professor at the
University of Kentucky College of
Medicine in the department of
ophthalmology.

_—1962—°
The Hon. J. Leyburn
Mosby Jr.
was elected judge of the 24th
Judicial Circuit for a term of eight

years. Mosby lives in Lynchburg,
Va.

“29— 1963 —-- >>

William H. Candler

retired from his position as senior
editor at Tidewater Community
College in Hampton Roads, Va., in
December 2000 and left for a six-
month solo backpacking trip
through South America, New
Zealand and Australia. After visit-
ing family and friends for a few
Weeks, he left in July for a two-
month van camping trip through
the southern and western U.S., to
include visits with Kappa Sigma
Taternity brothers. Candler will
e a job When his road trip
_ he tres not to think

at while traveling.

Dr. Thomas D. Edwards
on orthodontics for 20 years
. en state, then moved
, = P aviation in 1987.
Sa Captain with United

 

John Esperian °59
was in Havana this
summer on a grant
to study the “Afri-
can Hoos of
Cuban Culture.”
While there, he
drove a 751 Olds-
mobile 88,

similar to the car

one

he drove while a
student at W&L.

Airlines. He and his wife, Donna,
live 100 miles northwest of
Phoenix.

Stephen H. Stull

works for KPMG Consulting on a
U.S. AID project in Bosnia. He
lives in San Clemente, Calif.

“Q..25 9 964 ——<>

Joseph R. Burkart

was elected trustee of Continuum
Health Partners, the board that
oversees four major New York
Hospitals: St. Luke’s Roosevelt,
Beth Israel Medical Center, New
York Eye and Ear Infirmary and
Long Island College Hospital.

Michael E. Levin

is president of Levin, Shea, Pfeffer
& Topas P.A. Attorneys in Jackson,
N.J. He is also chairman of the
board of directors of Community
State Bank in ‘Teaneck, N.].

2 Fees cs

Bernd Schulz

is a consultant for German
‘Technical Assistance in Bangla-
desh in the field of human
resources development.

“)..._. § 9 S&S —__. >

Frank A. Bailey Ill
discovered at a recent business-
man’s club golf tournament that
two other members of his five-
some also went to W&L. When
Bailey commented on the fact,
they pointed out that they each
had sons who had attended W&L.
Bailey lives in Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

Se SO ee
Walter J. Borda
continues as the managing director
of Borda & Lorenz, a boutique law
practice in Michigan, which focus-

fe eS ee, ee es ee

es on corporate, transactional and
regulatory work for automotive
clients. “The company has been
helping Ford with the Firestone
matter.

John S. Craham Ill

is proud of his fellow econ major
and stepdaughter, Blair Priest, on
her graduation with the class of
2001. Graham lives in Severna

Park, Md.

Oo 4 F6 8B —_—>

Stuart H. Ferguson Il

won the gold at the 2001 World
Masters Judo Championship in
Scottsdale, Ariz., in the 55- to 59-
age group. He became the nation-
al champion earlier this year. His
daughter, Erin, just graduated
from W&L. He and his family live
in Albuquerque, N.M.

Donald L. O'Hare
was named vice president of the
World Shipping Council. He has

three grandchildren and lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Steven R. Saunders

was elected president of the Zorig
Foundation USA, a foundation
that supports development of
democracy and free market eco-
nomics in Central Asia. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

O—_ 1969 —S>»
Patrick K. Arey
is a partner at Abramoff, Neuberg-
er and Linder L.L.P. in Baltimore.
He serves as the chair of the state
and local government law section

of the American Bar Association for
the year 2000-01. He was recently
elected a fellow of the American
College of Bond Counsel.

2658 SO 7G <..G>

W. Foster Caillard

is a shareholder in the law firm of
Buist, Moore, Smythe & McGee
PA. in Charleston, S.C., and was
selected for membership in the
American College of Real Estate
Lawyers. He is the chair of the real
estate practice section of the South
Carolina Bar.

Steven F. Unti

completed 28 years of private law
practice and has been appointed a
part-time lay minister in the
United Methodist Church, as well
as pastor of the Paces Ferry United
Methodist Church in Atlanta. Unti
is also the president of the Atlanta
area Phi Beta Kappa Alumni
Association.

Civ, SOF 4 +S?

Dr. Andrew C. Kumpuris
has been named a Robert Wood
Johnson Health Policy Fellow for
2001-02 by the Institute of Medi-
cine. Kumpuris, a private physi-
cian at St. Vincent’s Hospital in
Little Rock, Ark., will study how
government health and biomedical
research activities relate to the mis-
sion of their institutions and local
communities.

B. Christopher Lee

was elected to the board of direc-
tors of ‘The Philadelphia Chapter
of ‘The Construction Financial

Lynchburg Citation

‘The Lynchburg Cha-
pter of the Alumni
Association presented
its 2001 Lynchburg
Citation to retired
Virginia Sen. Elliot S.
Schewel “45. Ihe
award was presented
to Schewel by Dennis
Roberts ’83 on May 3.
‘The award is “grateful
acknowledgement of
manifold —contribu-

tions to the advance-

 

ment of the University’s productivity and stature.”

 

ja

 

 

‘Two generations of W&L grads were hoping for three, but the children
chose Stanford University in California instead. Reunited on graduation
day at Hoover House on the Stanford campus were (from left): Ray V.
Hartwelll II 69, °75L, Will Hartwell, Emily Goodwin, Clark Goodwin
69 and George Goodwin ’39.

te Oe ee ee ee ae

Management Association. He is a
member of Jacoby Donner PC.

C. Lee Millar Ill

was appointed to and elected
chairman of the Shelby County
Historical Commission in Mem-
phis, ‘Tenn. Lee is the network
MIS manager for the Shelby
County sheriff's office. He is also
president of the General N.B.
Forrest Historical Society and on
the board of directors of Friends of
Shiloh Battlefield, as well as on the
board of directors of the ‘Tennessee
Civil War Preservation Association.
He lives in Memphis.

Sonn {Oo JI? ..G>

Robert D. LaRue '72

says his son, Ryan ’(01, just graduat-
ed from W&L, and his daughter,
Lauren, has entered her sophomore
year. LaRue lives in Houston.

Cia tS SW oe

Ceorge E. Calvert Jr.
joined ‘Irusco Capital Manage-
ment, the institutional money
management division of Sun’Irust
Banks, based in Richmond.
Calvert is managing Virginia and
Maryland municipal bond mutual
funds.

1974 c-

Paul R. Holland Ill

and his wife, Laurie, live in
Herndon, Va., where he is presi-
dent of Vision ‘Technology, a com-
munications engineering compa-
ny, and partner in Houston

Wireless, a broadband wireless
communications provider.

John M. Zamoiski

won a Peabody Award in May for
the A&E production of The
Crossing, starring Jeff Daniels. The
Crossing was the story of W&Us
beloved founder George Washing-
ton crossing the Delaware.
Zamoiski accepted a part-time
position as a professor at New York
University and will teach a course
in sports and entertainment mar-
keting this fall. Zamoiski’s firm,
Kaleidoscope Sports & Entertain-
ment, will be developing all of the
network marketing for NBC,
CNBC and MSNBC for the Salt
Lake City Olympic Games.

Co ~~ {7 & oo

David H. Slater

and his family have lived in St.
John’s, Newfoundland, Canada,
since 1995. Slater works with
Hibernia Management Co., lead-
ing the reservoir management
team responsible for the develop-
ment of the Hibernia oil field.

Daniel E. Drennen Il

joined Mellon Private Asset
Management as a vice president
and business development officer.
Based in Plymouth Meeting, Pa.,
Drennen will be responsible for
new business development in
southeastern Pennsylvania and
southern New Jersey.

Col. David J. Knack

is headed to Japan after complet-
ing a two-year tour in ‘Turkey. Fora
25th wedding anniversary, he gave
his wife, Peggy, a diamond pur-
chased in South Africa set in a ring
made in ‘Turkey. His family is look-
ing forward to the Far East.

Chen ft OTF ae
The Hon. Robert A.
Carpentier
was elected judge of Manorhaven
Village of the North Shore of Long
Island, N.Y. He won a hotly con-
tested election for a term of four
years.

Walter Kansteiner

has been named assistant secretary
of state for African affairs. He has
held previous government posi-
tions, including director of African
affairs at the National Security
Council and deputy press secretary
in the White House. During the
Clinton years, he worked for the
Scowcroft Group.

Michael T. Kohlenstein
is the president of HG Insurance

Group. He and his three sons live
in Sykesville, Md.

William GC. Oglesby

is the director of media training
and video services and employee-
owner of Carter Ryley ‘Thomas
Public Relations. He lives in
Richmond with his wife, Marcia,
and daughters, Jessica, 17, and
Caroline, 11.

Dr. R. Mark Payne

and his wife, Helen, moved to
North Carolina four years ago,
where he is associate professor of
pediatrics (cardiology) at Wake
Forest University School of
Medicine. Most of his time 1s
spent in basic research. ‘Their chil-
dren, Eliza and Rebecca, enjoy rid-
ing horses.

Clayton Preston

and his design firm, Village
Habitat Design in Atlanta, won the
World Habitat Award for East
Lake Commons, a planned com-
munity of 67 homes in DeKalb
County. ‘The competition identi-
fies “projects which demonstrate
practical and imaginative solutions
to housing problems related to
diminishing energy resources,
diversity of housing choices,
employment and a sustainable
future.” It is an annual program of
the Building and Social Housing
Foundation headquartered in

—

gland. Pres. 1
en from 150 4
ts. He collece.
€remonies jp

Leichestershire, En
ton’s firm was chos
entries and 16 finalis
ed the award at c
Fukuoko, Japan.

Dr. Earl W. Stradtman Jr
had an eye-opening adventure on

a mission trip to the Ukraine this
summer. He lives in Birm

Ala. ingham,

Samuel E. Thompson
works as a loan officer With

Countrywide Home Loans ia
Marietta, Ga.

“O- 1978 os
Dr. John F. Sacco
is part of a large multi-specialty
oncology practice in Cincinnati,
Ohio. He was appointed as a clini-
cal instructor of medical acupune-
ture at the University of California
at Los Angeles. His wife, Cathy,
and daughter, Emma, live ip
Cincinnati, and visitors are wel-
come.

Robert B. Tremblay

was elected to the Boston Society
of Film Critics. He lives in
Waltham, Mass.

O—- 1979 — ee

Michael F. Follo
and his wife, Deb Caughron, —
moved back to Virginia. He teach- —
es geology and physics at ~
Woodberry Forest School, and she
is the director of Woodberry’s new —
outdoor education and leadership
development program. He says
they moved back primarily to keep
closer tabs on Fred Schwab, pro-
fessor of geology at W&L.

John H. Norberg j
is president and CEO of Standard —
Investment Chartered in ‘Tustin, —
Calif. He was elected to serve a ~
vice chair for nomination and”
board development for a two-year ~
term on the UC Irvine Founda- j
tion. ‘

James A. Tommins j
left the consumer home products —
field, where he had been a VIC€—
president of marketing at Dan —
River Home Fashions in New 1
York City. He is now the Com ~
necticut-Westchester divisiona®—
sales manager for Corporate ]
Express, a B2B office products ;
procurements solutions resource: —
Tommins, his wife, Tishaa
sons, Jamie, Patrick and Michael, —
live in Fairfield, Conn.

 

 

 

a. 4980—<>

. Parker

james Oc for business report-
ee South Carolina Press
nB Bion Awards for 2000. He
sin Mount Pleasant, S.C.

j. Weeks ,

ac anew book Not for Filthy Lucres
e, . Richard Saltar and the
op popielary Movement of East
. Jersey, 1665-1707, published
* Lehigh University Press.
Weeks is an instructor of history at
\fonmouth University, West Long
Branch, N.J., where he also serves
on the board of the Center for

New Jersey History.

paniel

= 1981—<>

Geoffrey P. Sisk —

< a vice president and investment
officer with First Union Securities
in Richmond.

ao 1982 —<>
Stephenson B. Andrews
lectured on the Great Opera Houses
of Europe during the June W&L
Alumni College in Lexington. He
lives in New York City.

James D. Brockeiman

left Putnam Investments in
Boston after 14 years to spend time
with his family, as well as to enjoy
his hobbies of sailing and traveling.
He will re-enter the investment
business in the fall or next spring.

Philip M. Browne

lives in Doyelstown, Pa., with his
wife, Liane, and son, Philip Jr. He
is the chief financial officer for
Advanta Corp., where Liane also
works as senior counsel.

E. Bradley Crosby
accepted the position of general

 

On Aug. 8, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and

th
= US. Department of Justice announced the

successful concl
dismantled the |

history, Pictured
deputy chief pos
Weaver, Chief post
Ney general: and Jol
fer general

- usion of a two-year, worldwide
MVestigation called “Operation Avalanche” that
argest known commercial child
Pomography enterprise ever uncovered in U.S.
(from left): Ken Newman 771,
tal inspector-investigations; Ken
al inspector; John Ashcroft, attor-

in Nolan ’70, deputy postmas-

ee ee

 

Annual Call for Nominations

The W&L Alumni Board of Directors will be accepting nomina-

tions for candidates for six seats on the Alumni Board and one

vacancy on the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics
through Dec.31, 2001. Under Article 9 of the Washington and Lee

Alumni Inc. bylaws, all Alumni Association members may submit

names to a nominating committee. ‘This year, the chairman of that

committee is Jennifer Bray Stratton ’89. She will recetve written

nominations at 2512 Spring Lane, Austin, ‘lexas, 78703 or by

e-mail at jenniferstratton@alumni.wlu.edu.

Volunteer service for Washington and Lee is an important

consideration for all candidates.

manager at Hanover Country
Club in Ashland, Va., called “the
golfers’ heaven.”

Charles F. Randolph

works in Chicago at ABN AMRO
Bank, where he is senior vice pres-
ident and managing director in the
syndications group. He lives in
Wilmette, IIl., with his wife and
three daughters.

Dr. M. Parker Roberts Ill
moved from ‘lexas to Falmouth,
Maine, and had three children
since he last wrote.

a... - | 983 —__. >

Capt. Alan S. Armitage
earned his master’s degree in mass
communications from Southern
Illinois University at Edwardsville.
His wife, Nicole, a captain in the
Air Force, has been assigned to
Kadena Air Force Base, Okinawa,
Japan, so the couple will move
there for three years.

fit 4 9 e4 o>
Hiram H. Maxim Il
and his wife, Caroline, moved to
Washington, where he joined the
German department at George-
town University. His wife will con-
tinue her career as a textile designer.

Stewart T. Shettle

was elected to a term as trustee of
St. Paul’s School Alumni
Association. He lives in Baltimore.

“O.. 4985 —<>»

Thomas C. Imeson Ill

and his family moved back to
Georgia after two years in London.
He is still at Rayonier, Inc., work-
ing as the sales manager for Latin
America.

Brian P. O’Riordan

moved from Beverly Hills back to
San Diego, where he works as
director of audio visual services for
the Sheraton San Diego Hotel and
Marina.

 

K. Scott Van Meter
was certified by the Association of
Insolvency and _ Restructuring

Advisors. Van Meter is a principal at
PM Keypoint L..L.C. in Houston.

O—- 1986 —<>

James Y. Kerr Il

was appointed to the utilities com-
mission of the state of North
Carolina by Gov. Mike Easley.
Kerr is a partner at the law firm of
Smith, Anderson, Blount, Dorsett,
Mitchell & Jernigan in Raleigh,
N.C.

Steven E. Losquadro

has moved law offices to Port
Jefferson, N.Y., and was appointed
as counsel to the Suffolk County
Republican Committee.

James C. Renfro Jr.

and his wife, Stephanie, live in
Hickory, N.C., where he works for
Corning Cable Systems as the
director of marketing for optical
components.

oO. £987.»

Dr. Andrew M. Reibach '87
is assistant director of the family
practice residency at Washington
Hospital in Washington, Pa. He
lives in McMurray, Pa., with his
wife, Stacey, and his children,
Stephen, 8, and Rachel, 5.

Matthew H. Steilberg

is the national sales manager for
First Union’s Consumer Bank in
Charlotte, N.C., where he lives
with his wife, Ann, and sons,
Robert and Jackson.

J. Baxter Sharp Ill

was elected chairman of the board
Merchants & Planters Bank and
Clarendon Holding Co. Inc. Both
are in Clarendon, Ark.

“i... §. 9 SO ...-C»

Frederick W. Lake Ill

led a $1.8 billion initial public
offering of Reliant Resources Inc.
He and his family live in Houston.

Scott J. Mayer

moved to Nashville, ‘Tenn., in
January 2000 and was appointed
general counsel of the ‘Tennessee
Human Rights Commission that
May. Mayer stays busy with a small
environmental consulting firm that
he co-founded, building his dream
house and kicking around on the
guitar with a couple of local blue-
grass folks.

 

ed

 

Exotic Lodge

Not Just a Fish Story

A Family Affair

It was just two years ago that Butler Ball 96 craved the idea of run-
ning his own fishing lodge. Now that dream is a reality in the Iber
Marshland in northern Argentina. “He’s a fanatic,” said Hilton
Hines Ball 97 about the young man who became her husband in
September.

Consuming passion and careful planning were key to develop-
ment of the project, which is more than the average fishing lodge.
‘The property,
located on a 3-mil-
lion-acre freshwa-
ter marshland in
Argentina’s north-
ern province of
Corrientes, is mod-
éled” ‘alter the
world-renowned
elite sea-trout
lodge Kau-apen
in the Patagonia 1n

the =. south — of

 

Argentina. Excel-
lent service and cuisine and, above all, quality fishing are trade-
marks.

Yet building a lodge 400 miles north of Buenos Aires in one of
the poorest corners of the country was a risky and challenging
endeavor. “There were so many unknowns and so many things that
could have gone
wrong,” said
Hilton Ball. “We
were amazed how
well the communi-
ty received our
idea.” Providing
jobs for up to 40
workers during the
construction and

now using 10

 

townspeople full
time was key in setting up a positive relationship with the commu-
nity. “We always make sure to do our shopping in the area,” she

added. “Even getting eggs from the neighbors can

De ee ee ee

  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
     
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

 

and the finished product of the lodge itself made all the stress and
hard work that went into construction completely worthwhile,” gh :
said. The lodge proved particularly attractive to tourists from th
U.S. and Great Britain

Pira’s fishery offers a variety of sites, ranging from the Natural
canals and shallows within the marsh itself to the deep, clear Waters
of the Corrientes River. One of its most popular targets is the fresh
water dorado, fly fishing’s most exciting new game fish. But in keep.
ing up with the credo of passing the experience on to the next fish-
erman, all fish caught at Pira are released.

One of the inaugural season’s visitors was Philip Norwood *6
who, accompanied by classmates and fraternity brothers Ric
McMillan and Bart Goodwin, took his chance on the famed dorado
“We enjoyed the challenge and boated a number of magnificen
golden-hued fish ranging in size from 4 to 15 pounds,” Norwood

said.

A multi-generational W&L involvement has been essential 1
making the project a success. While both Butler’s father, Willis Be
°69, and his younger brother, Christopher ’00, act as investors, it We
Christopher who also served as a fishing guide for the lodge just th
past year. Hilton Ball returned to Argentina in October to help he
husband manage the lodge for at least one more season. Once the
couple feels the lodge is operating to its best potential, and they can
find managerial substitutes, they plan to return to the States.

“Butler will always play a key role in running the company and
making important decisions regarding the lodge, but we do not plan
to stay in Argentina indefinitely,” she said. “We hope

 

make a huge difference.”

After seven months of building, Pira Lodge,
which accommodates up to 10 people, was ready for
its first anglers last December. “The success of our

first season fully exceeded our initial expectations,

Agnes Flak °03

 
   

include

to expand our horizons beyond fly-fishing to
incred-

    
   

eco-tourism. We have horses, sea-kayaks and

ible bird watching, and we would love to use these

—
elements to promote the lodge as a resort destinatiol

for anyone.”

 

werk V1 hk and

Cee WOR to went

Ni OR OG AZ, EN

 

 

 

Hello,

from Middle Tennessee

 

The Middle Tennessee Chapter welcomed incoming freshmen at

an August event. Pictured (from left): Cathy Jackson (parent), Jean

Banker (parent), Clay Jackson "76, Ann Stewart Banker ’05, Rachel

Chisolm ’05, chapter president Dallas Hagewood 790, chef Richard

Tomkins 90, Clay Jackson Jr. ’04, and Michael Augustine ‘03.

Jackson hosted the event.

a 1990-—-—>

Scott B. Hamilton

received his doctorate in clinical
psychology from Indiana State
University in August of 1999 and is
now the lead psychologist at the
Pendleton Juvenile Correctional
Facility in the Indianapolis area,
where he lives with his wife and
stepchildren.

The Rey. Amy Y. Lehr

received the Emma _ Gaillard
Boyce Graduate Fellowship dur-
ing commencement exercises at
Columbia Theological Seminary
in May. She earned a master’s of
divinity degree there. Lehr is pas-
tor of Belspring Presbyterian
Church in Belspring, Va., and Old

Brick Presbyterian Church in
Radford, Va.

D. Scott Richardson

Sa senior consultant for SAP cur-

rently working at Nike world
cadquarters as consulting lead for

foreign trade. He lives in Aloha,
Te.

"-— 1991 —__©
Robert B. Brown
enjoy
. . ed seeing so many classmates
€ Homestead and in Lexing-

‘
e during the 10th reunion. He
“Sin Birmingham, Ala.

. Andrew Caffney
eersuing his M.B.A. at the
Pa fon School in Philadelphia,

Angus B. Rosborough

left Morgan Stanley after 10 years
to join ING-Bankings. He still will
be based in London.

John A. Flippen

is the transactional attorney for
CNN.com and CNN Radio in
Atlanta and loves the more bal-
anced life he has now—no billing!

J. Read Folline

moved to Columbia, S.C., where
he is starting his own residential
real estate company, Capital City
Development.

Susan Streib Raynor

and her husband and three children
moved to Washington, where she
will begin her doctorate work in
canon law at the Catholic University
of America. She received her mas-
ter’s in theological studies from the
University of Notre Dame in May.
She and her husband also own a
marionette business, Stevens
Puppets, which has three tours in
the Midwest and a new tour in the
Mid-Atlantic region.

Thomas C. Snedeker

visited San Francisco, where he saw
pledge brothers Doug Johnson,
Drew Anton, Scott Swygert, Marc
Short and Chip Larkin, as well as
skull brothers Jonathan Symonds
91, Bruce ‘laylor 91 and Joe
Caccamo ’89. Snedeker works for
Winstar and lives in Arlington, Va.

|e Oe ee

 

Hunter H. Williams

is a senior art director with Young
& Rubicam in New York. He com-
pleted four commercials for Sony
Walkman, 11 for the NFL and the
United Ways Partnership and is
now working on a brand campaign
for the NFL. Look for all of them
this fall.

oo“. 4} ags3 —c»

Jeremy B. Milling

works in the commercial real
estate/development business in
Mobile and Baldwin County. His
family moved to Mobile, Ala., last
summer. He has two children, Jeb,
3, and Emilia, 8 months.

Kathleen M. O’Connor
moved to Lille, France, this fall on
a teaching exchange through
Indiana University. She will be a
lectrice in the English department
at the Université Charles-de-
Gaulle, and will continue to work
on her doctoral dissertation in lin-
CuISstics.

Christopher B. Sackett

works as a purchasing and sales
representative for Prime Lumber
Co. His wife, Drewry Atkins
Sackett 93, is a project manager at

Marconi Commerce Systems.
‘They live in Greensboro, N.C.

Talley D. Woolley
was promoted to vice president
and account supervisor at ‘LG.
Madison Advertising. Woolley
lives in Alpharetta, Ga.

7 9 Oo 4 CSC»

Alexander D. Ruskell
received a master’s degree in cre-
ative writing from Harvard
University and has been awarded a
two-year writing and teaching fel-
lowship from the Iowa Writing
Workshop at the University of
Iowa beginning this fall. Ruskell
had been practicing law and edit-
ing legal publications in Boston for
the past four years.

co. 1995 —<>

R. Ray Craig

completed his M.B.A. from the
University of ‘Texas McCombs
School of Business and began
working for J.P. Morgan’s invest-
ment banking division. He and his
wife, Julia Podlas Craig °95, live in
New York City.

Theodore W. Dimitry

is enrolled in Rice University’s
Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of
Management, class of 2002. He
interned at Salvage Sale Inc., a
Houston-based start-up specializ-
ing in B2B transfers of salvaged
goods.

Kerry A. Egan

received her master’s degree
from Harvard Divinity School
and soon will complete an
internship as a chaplain in a
Brooklyn, N.Y., hospital.

Elizabeth Z. Jorgenson
received her juris doctor from the
Dickinson School of Law = at

 

 

It was Charleston, W.Va., hospitality at its best at a summer recep-

tion for new and existing students and alumni. Pictured (from left)
are Stephanie Schulz ’89, Crystal Straube Stump ’93L and Kara
Cunningham 790. The prospective students are (from left) Lawson
Stump, Luke Stump and Mychala Schulz.

 

 

i.

Pennsylvania State University in
May.

Patrick W. O'Keefe
graduated from Southern Illinois
University in Springfield, IIl., in
May. He entered a preliminary res-
idency with the school’s affiliated
hospitals in July.

ion 419006 -—<—>

Jonathan C. Coffman
coached at the College of
Charleston in South Carolina last
year and moved in April to Stetson
University in Florida.

Clifford K. Holekamp
graduated from Washington Univ-
ersity in St. Louis with his M.B.A.

Christa L. Kirby

received her juris doctor, summa
cum laude, from the Dickinson
School of Law at Pennsylvania
State University in May.

P. Macnamara Lacy

received his juris doctor and a cer-
tificate in environmental and _nat-
ural resources law from North-
western School of Law in Portland,
Ore. He has published: “Our
Sedimentation Boxes Runneth
Over” (Environmental Law, 2001)
and “The Irrigated Desert and
Imperiled Salmon” (Denver Water
Law Review, 2001). He continues
to “think like a mountain.”

oD 271¢ GO? ..-4«G

E. Lucinda Barnett

has changed her career path. She
has jumped from producing televi-
sion news to managing the Web site
for the television station. Check it
out at “TheWGALChannel.com.
Barnett lives in Lancaster, Pa.

Richard W. Cobbs Jr.
moved to Charlotte, N.C., and is
working with First Union Capital
Partners.

Jennifer L. Eul

received her juris doctor degree
from the Dickinson School of Law
at Pennsylvania State University in
May.

Dr. Henry C. Criggs Jr.
and his wife, Martha, are moving to
Ramstein, Germany, with the U.S.
Air Force to practice general den-
tistry for the next three years.

Kaj H. Kirkman

graduated from ‘he Art Institute
of Atlanta last December with an
associate’s in art in graphic design.
She is freelancing for ‘The
Westport Group in Atlanta.

lan K. Leavy

works for Miller and Martin L.L.P.
in Chattanooga, ‘Tenn., as an attor-
ney in the area of ERISA and
employment benefits.

A LU M Nt N E W S

Laura J. Marshall

finished her master’s in interna-
tional trade last year and is now an
analyst on the economic develop-
ment committee of the Kentucky
legislature.

Tracy P. Marshall
completed her second year of law
school at American University.
Over the summer she worked for a
law firm in Washington.

Amy M. McCauley

lives in Atlanta among many W&L
classmates. She works for Southern
Living magazine as a district adver-
tising manager.

Elizabeth S. Sklaroff

lives in beautiful Vail, Colo., work-
ing as a manager for the Vail Marriott
and skiing about 60 days a year.

Dr. Richard J. Thomas
eraduated from the Medical
College of Georgia and is now an
orthopedic surgery resident at the
University of Virginia.

<__- 1998 ——>

Rebecca L. Bagdonas
will start her fourth year of medical
school at SUNY Upstate Medical
University in Syracuse, N.Y. She is
interested in anesthesiology.

Elizabeth E. Detter
finished her second year at the
U.S. Embassy in Haiti, where she

 

An “Almost-Oktoberfest” party Sept. 19 at Pennsylvania Brewing Co. in Pittsburgh was a popular event.
Pictured (from left): John P. Stafford ’79, Holly Root, Wali Bacdayan ’92, Brad B. Root ’88, Sara Hall ’01,
Shayna Ainsley ’00, ‘Tom Cockrell ’92, Brewster Cockrell ’68, Ned Wellman ’59, ‘lom Pastorius (brew-
master), Itacey Thornblade Belmont ’92, Wendy Neel Bacdayan ’94, Joe Milcoff’92, (Jason Blake’s guest),
Michael Belmont (husband of ‘Iracey Thornblade Belmont ’92), Jason Blake ’99L.

   
   
 
 
  
    
     
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 

will begin a new

POSition
ambassador’s staff aS the

aide. Next sum-
Ve Haiti for hed

Jamie L. Estes

moved to Raleigh, N.C,, to ¢
English at Rocky Mount Academ
and coach their girls’ and boys’ voll
cer teams. 7

Taryn C. Kiekow
eraduated from the University of
Virginia School of Law and will
begin working for the law firm
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft
in Washington. While at U.Va, she
was on the Virginia Law Review and
was assistant director of The Libel
Show. She took a trip with class-
mate Millie Heatwole and will be
living in D.C. with classmate
Karen Watts.

Zachary T. Lee
eraduated from the University of
Wyoming College of Law and lived
on classmate Noah Egorin’s couch
in Arlington, Va., while studying for
the Virginia bar exam.

R. Blake Lovelace
accepted a new position with Bain
Capital and now resides in New

York City.

Seer Re EN eT

Katherine E. McAlpine
is a marketing account developer
with Arthur Andersen in Charlotte.
She is still working on her masters
degree in mass communications at
the University of South Carolina.

Jennifer E. Owens
is applying to law school to fight for
truth, justice and the American ~
way, after finishing her masters 1
degree in American studies. She j
lives in Philadelphia. 1

soaeeaeinanemeumaneenammeeseineeammemnnmmemimmmmemmemenamanes ae nner Te a ne

2nd Lt. Nicole M. Richard
completed her third year of med —
ical school at Uniformed Service —
University and is beginning
interview for residency. She als0 1
plays rugby for USU Lady Does:

Laura K. Seaman aa
is in her fourth year of medical 1
school at Medical University %~
South Carolina. 4

Ansley S. Tharpe
finished her first year of medical
school at the Medical College
Georgia.

 

 

 

 

Meet the President

 

Washington and Lee’s Washington ‘lerm program allows 18 politics stu-

dents the opportunity to see how government works through intern-

ships in senatorial or congressional offices, the White House and with

lobbying organizations. Among those joining Professor Bill Connelly

last spring were these students who got to shake hands with President

George Bush. From left: Sarah Spisich 02, Jenny Anne Kneisel ’01,

Brin Russell ’03, Professor Connelly and John Cimina ’02. |

Michael A. Vasallo

works in medical sales for Quest
Diagnostics in Atlanta, where he
resides.

Laura Wareing Wheless
lives in Houston, with her hus-
band, William. She works in devel-
opment for River Oaks Baptist
School.

Jason C. Zacher

has been an education writer for
The Greenville News and was named
aScholar by the Education Writers
Association. He was one of four
Winners of the national award.

“-— 1999 ©»

Kristine A. Borden

famed her master’s degree from
lufts University in child psycholo-
sy and will begin on her doctorate
In the fall in Atlanta. She will be
Working with children at a family
Practice and performing psycho-
logical testing during her studies.

Michael C. Callaghan
ond at Earle Palmer Brown
sing agency in Bethesda,

Mikel L, Parker
ad Dina, celebrated
. anniversary in March.
: . : for GMAC Commercial
a a and she will start teach-
> JG grade at a public school
in Marietta, Ga.

this fal], They live

Sat donne Oe AS ee Gz

Warren E. Hedges

is now in the Republic of Georgia
as a Peace Corps Volunteer. He is
in the first group of volunteers to
Georgia, where he will be teaching
English. Hedges reports that the
people are very hospitable,
although the country is very poor.

MARRIAGES

 

Lewis P. Wexler 58 to Lynda

 

a ae ee eR ee kage

 

Lipscomb Patton on Jan. 6 in
Johnson City, ‘Tenn., where the
couple reside. Wexler is the presi-
dent of Free Service ‘Tire Co.

Michael Davis 73 to Susan Comolli
on July 3, 2000, on Edisto Island,
S.C. Classmate Gary Poliakoff per-
formed the ceremony. Other PiKAs
in attendance were John Cassell 72,
Paul Jones ’73, Revell Lewis ’73 and
Rick Marsh ’73. ‘The couple live in
New York City.

Brett S. Kass ’83 to Jennifer E.
Young on Sept. 16, 2000, in
Mahwah, N.J. The couple reside
in the Boston area, where he works
as a project engineer on a semi-
conductor foil plant for Intel in
Hudson, Mass., and she is a Web
designer and Webmaster of

PCPITS TOPcom.

John E. Harrison Ill '84 to
Elizabeth Anne Baxter on June 23
in Washington. He is an editor for
the American Psychological
Association, and she is a paralegal
for the U.S. Department of Justice.
‘They reside in Arlington, Va.

M. Eugene Wood III ’84 to Allison
Glaw on Nov. 4, 2000, in Sturgeon
Bay, Wis. ‘The couple reside in
Atlanta, where he is a senior risk
manager for Wachovia Bank’s
financial services industry group.

Paul A. Driscoll ’85 to Amy Peck
on Feb. 3 in Cincinnati, Ohio. ‘The
couple live in Virginia Beach. He
practices law with Pender &
Coward P.C., and she is director of

Pacific Views

admissions at the Norfolk campus
of Johnson & Wales University.

Shawn A. Copeland '90 to Jane
Seymour on Sept. 23, 2000, in
Charlotte, N.C. He is an associate
with Hunton & Williams in
Richmond and practices civil liti-

gation. She is a school counselor at
‘The Steward School in Richmond.

Judson B. Parker '90 to Renu
Chopra in San Francisco. ‘The cou-
ple also celebrated their marriage
in a Hindu ceremony on May 6 in
the bride’s hometown of Cincin-
nati, Ohio. Classmates in atten-
dance included John ‘l[ouchton,
Tim Ward, Lee Grable, Mark
Milligan and Chris Brand. ‘The
couple reside in San Francisco,
where Parker 1s the East Coast
account executive for Summation
Legal ‘Technologies.

Kelly D. Shifflett 90 to Joseph D.
Martinez on June 14 on North
Mountain in Rockbridge County.
She works for Rockbridge Area
Community Services, and he is
associate professor of theater at
W&L. The couple and their chil-
dren live on a small farm in
Collierstown, Va.

Richard P. Silva '90 to Eileen
Concannon on Aug. 18, 2000. ‘The
couple live in New York City, where
he works for Morgan Stanley.

Bradley T. Miller 91 to Carrie A.
Frey on Nov. 25, 2000, in New
Orleans. Groomsmen included
Michael Badger ’91 and Mitchell

‘The Greater Los Angeles Chapter welcomed new freshmen on July 29. Guests were treated to views of

the Pacific Ocean from the penthouse of the Jonathan Beach Club in Santa Monica, Calif. “Tom Lovell

91 represented the W&L alumni office for this event, which drew an impressive crowd. ‘The reception

was planned by Andrew Caruthers ’87.

 

 

ie pte o and Lee Po ALUMNI Mice @ Ate kw Ht

Battle of the Bands

Rock, bluegrass, blues, jazz, acoustic. ‘I‘he Washington and
Lee Alumni Office seeks alumni musicians and bands to play for

Reunion Weekend in Lexington on Saturday May 3, 2002.

 

Last spring’s outdoor
eoncert on the. lront
Lawn with seven musical
eroups was such a success
that the Alumni Associa-
tion wants to make the
event bigger and better.

If you can carry a

tune, pick a guitar, blow a

horn, call or write ‘Tom Lovell, assistant alumni director, 540-463-

8467 or tdlovell@wlu.edu.

Schmale °91. Miller graduated
from ‘Tulane Law School in May
and will be practicing with Cooley,
Godward L.L.P,, in Reston, Va.

W. Jay Gabbard '92 to Stephanie
McFerren on June 9 in Weirton,
W.Va. Gabbard 1s a third-year doc-
toral student in social work at the
University of Alabama at ‘lusca-
loosa. He is working with juvenile
sex offenders and conducting
research on homeless people who
are severely mentally ill. Jimm
Cobb ’89 and Lenise Graber
Baxter ’94 attended the wedding.

Thomas J. Molony’93 to Susan M.
Ballantine 'OOL on Oct. 7, 2000, in
Louisville, Ky. Members of the
wedding party included Christy
Ames ’98L, Robert Burger 93 and
Jeff Keithline ’98L. ‘The couple
practice law in Charlotte, N.C.

David C. Bartlett '94 to Beth J.
Pugstiey on: Oct 7, 2000; 15
Washington. Classmates ‘lim Carr,
Jonathan Ingram and Doug
Shepard were members of the
wedding party. Bartlett is assistant
vice president of federal regulato-
ry affairs in ALLTEL Corp.’s
Washington office.

Lev. M. Morozov '94 to Joy
Mansour on April 21, in London,
U.K. For now the couple will
reside in London, although
Morozov says it is quite possible
his next job will be on the
Continent.

Elizabeth Woodward Holleman
"95 to Benjamin Clark Brown on
May 26, in Washington.

Rebecca Crow '95 to William
Gallagher on Dec. 16, 2000, in
Washington. Cameron Huddle-
ston Lebedinsky ’95 was matron
of honor. In attendance were class-
mates Kristi Liptak, Francie
Cohen Spahn, Jared Spahn and
Marissa Vivona. She 1s the promo-
tions manager for Classical 103.5
in Washington and spends her lim-
ited free time assisting her hus-
band, the music director for XM
Satellite Radio’s Unsigned Chan-
nel.

Neil A. Garde ’95 to Karin Peter
on July 1, 2000, in Riverside, Calif.
‘The couple live in Irvine, Calif.,
where he is a senior product man-
ager for Vitria ‘lechnology, a soft-
ware firm in Sunnyvale, Calif.

Matthew B. Cilman 95 to Claire
Elizabeth ‘Thompson on June 9 in
Richmond. Mike Lekness °94,
Michael Ross °94, ‘Tim Beczcow-
ski °94, ‘Tom Day 795 and Nick
Kyriakidis °95 participated in the
ceremonies.

Ray O. Noojin Ill "95 to Marie
Blackwell on April 21. Grooms-
men included ‘lodd Stanton, Joe
Eglesby, Bryan Walton and James
Whiteside. ‘he couple reside in
Atlanta.

Sarah Anne Sheffield Ball ’96 to
Michael Cameron Sharp on June
16, in Lexington. Her parents are
Mr. and Mrs. Haywood Moreland
Ball ’61. Members of the wedding
party included Anna Ellis Starling
Schweigman °96, Meredith Gil-
mer Winn °96 and Brandon Lane
Ferguson °97. ‘The wedding will

Pe eS ee

be featured in Southern Living in
June 2002. ‘The couple reside in
Atlanta, where she is creative
director for Atlanta Homes and
Lifestyles Magazine.

Julie Ann Olejniczak '96 to
Benjamin C. Skaggs '96 on
April 21 in Lee Chapel. Members
of the wedding party included
classmates Stephanie Boden
Wenstrup, Joanna Soto Carabello
and Dominique Chappelear Paye,
as well as Marc Santora 97 and
Ryan O’Quinn ’01L. ‘The couple
reside in San Diego.

Dr. Amy Jarvis '97 to Dr. Michael
A. Albert Jr. on Dec. 30, 2000, in
Charleston, W.Va. Serving in the
wedding were classmates Lori
Eggers Holt and Alissa Walls, as
well as Wen Hutchinson ’96 and
Dr. Ray VanMetre 96. She is start-
ing a residency in pediatrics, and
he is starting a residency in oph-
thalmology at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham Hospitals.

Amy Corham’97 to Brad Case on
June 23, in San Antonio. Members
of the wedding party included
classmates Hollis Leddy, Alicia
Hazlehurst and Ashley Amini.
Ushers were Nick Gorham ’05 and
‘Trevor Hildebrand °92. In atten-
dance were classmates Joanna
Munson, Maggie Ogilvie, Jim
Felton and Hank Cosby, as well as
Kelley Chapoton °98, Ansley
‘Tharpe ’98 and Chip Flanagan 75.

W. Townsend Heald '97 to
Catherine Lee Moser’97 on Sept.
16, 2000, in Fort Worth, ‘Texas.
Members of the wedding party
included Alison Rohas ’98, Amy
Bookout °97, ‘Tucker Bixby 797,
James Felton ’97, Charles Cara-
bello ’97 and Cole Atkins III ’97.
‘The couple reside in Dallas.

Jennifer Knox '97 to Phillip
Jordan '97 on Oct. 28, 2000, in
Setauket, N.Y. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Catherine Bassett Holden, Mark
‘Tobias and Charles Smith. In
attendance were classmates Susan
Hall, Jason Potoeki, Greg Hunt,
Joel Symonds and Ryan Bremer, as
well as Kelly Horan °96, Doug
Hesney °98, Eric Christ ’98 and
Roy Burns ’99. ‘The couple reside
in ‘Texarkana, ‘lexas, where they
both work as attorneys.

Paul D. Saboe '97 to Lyndsey
Hyke on June 16 in Subiaco, Ark.
‘The couple will live in the recently
renovated living quarters in Heard

   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 

his third year at Subiaco 3
as head dean for Heard Halal =
of the history department “—
model United Nations advisor. id
Steve B. Tye’97 to Kimberly Clow
on Aug. 19, 2000. ‘Tye eraduar _
from the University of Virginia’
Darden Business School. The wal
ple moved to Atlanta, where a
works in investment banking yj +,
Credit Suisse First Boston,
Laurence Phillips '98 to Hep,
Bragg on May 27, 2000. She will fin.
ish her master’s of arts in teachine »
Rice University in December, The
couple reside in Houston. 4

Jacob Sewall'98 to ErinR.,
'99 on March 17 in Austin, Texas
The wedding party include
James Sammons 799 and iP 1
Hiesks ’99. The couple live jp
Santa Cruz, Calif., where they ar
pursuing their doctorates in earl
science at the University )
California at Santa Cruz.

Dawn Marie Coulthurst '99 :
Carlton Mason (VMI 796) on J ne
2 in Portmouth, Va. “

John Devine '00O to Meredith
Welch '00 on May 26 in Foi
Worth, ‘Texas. Groomsmen includ
ed classmates Stephen Hopkin
and Ray Geisler. Ushers include
classmates Chris Hatzis and Barre
Witkin. Christine Higgins "00 wa
a bridesmaid and Kristi Slafka “0
was in the wedding party. Th
couple reside in Austin, ‘Texas. 4

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Abbe P
'85, a daughter, Liza, on Dee. 1]
2000. The family reside 1
Richmond, where Abbe 1s a porte
lio manager for the ‘Tredegar Titus
Co. 4

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald ™
Fenstermacher Jr. '85, a daugn
ter, Eleanor Reeve Biddle, on J .
12. Fenstermacher is an attorney !
the trusts and estates departme’®
of High, Swartz, Roberts & Sele

in Norristown, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey S. Britt}
'86, a son, William Scott, on J®
17. He joins a sister, Ashley, 2: *
family reside in East Windsot, ™

Mr. and Mrs. James L. Hayne?
'86, a daughter, Sarah Lang 7

 

Was

a nd

het: te ge thee on

ca ska

Mae Aa GroA ZF]

 

INe: E

 j_-

 

 

_

23, 2000. She joins sisters
on Dec: d Roxana, 3. The fami-

sig 5, a ,
Clair San Antonio.

rand Mrs: John R. Maass "87,
Me gughter. Eileen Mairead, on
a 6, 2000. The family live in
Wyinston-Sale™, | N.C., =—
\faass is finishing a master’s
degree in history at the University
Boocth Carolina at Greensboro.
5 article “To Disturb the
Assembly” was published in the
qucumn edition of Virginia

Cavalcade magazine.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey L. Marks
'97, a daughter, Emily Frances, on
June 1. The family reside in

Norfolk, Va.

mr. and Mrs. John Cullen
Poulton '87, a daughter, Caroline
Manning, on Jan. 2, 2001. She
joins a sister, Mary-MaclIntyre, 2.
Poulton has accepted a new posi-
tion as a strategic adviser in the
areas of tax and estates planning
with Brown Investment Advisory
& Trust Co. in Baltimore.

john C. Cammage Jr. '88 and
Valerie Cammage '89, a daugh-
ter, Pierson Elizabeth, on July 15.
The family reside in San
Francisco, where Gammage is
managing director of the financial
sponsor group at J.P. Morgan.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Garth Schulz
88, a daughter, Ainsley, on Aug.
1, 2000. She joins a_ brother,
Campbell, 3. The family reside in
Rye, N.Y.

This beautiful oil paining of a summer afternoon on the his-
toric Front Lawn of Washington and Lee, will be sold by e-mail
auction to benefit the University. It is the only unsold painting

of David Keeling’s seasonal views of the campus, the other three

Dr. and Mrs. Eugene F.
Stephenson '88, a son, William
Franklin on May 20. The family
reside in Rome, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven K.
Baldridge '89, a daughter, Maia
Elizabeth, on June 3. She joins sib-
lings Leila, 6, and Zachary, 3. The
family live in Buena Vista, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. S. David Burns ’89,
a daughter, Elizabeth Harwood, on
July 20. She joins two sisters, Anne
Katherine, 5, and Josephine, 2. The
family reside in Winchester, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Sean F. Driscoll
"89, a son, Francis Parker, on
March 31. He joins a sister,
McRae, 3. ‘The family reside in
Williamsburg, Va.

Meredith Walker Hodges '89
and Jason Hodges '89 a daugh-
ter, Anna Kathryn, on April 4. ‘The
family live in Atlanta, where he
works for Accenture, and she
works for Southern Co.

Mr. and Mrs. D. Emmanuel
Kiump 89, a daughter, Miriam
Ann, on April 6. The family reside
in Savannah, Ga.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Rawls
"89, a daughter, Madeline Daily,
on Sept. 2, 2000. She joins a broth-
er, Fitzhugh, 3. ‘The family has
moved back to their hometown of
‘Tampa, Fla. Rawls works for
Hillsborough County as the chief
of engineering services for the
roadway maintenance division.

Going Once

being in the possession of the University and alumni.

| Alumni, parents and friends are invited to bid for the paint-
ing, Which will be sold by Keeling from his Web site. The auc-

tion will close in time for delivery of the painting by Christmas.

The University will receive 70 percent of the sale price.

The painting is on exhibit at the Alumni House. It also can
be viewed on the Web site. Information about the auction, with
pa Opportunity to enter your bid, is available at
DavidKeeling.com or by calling 540-463-4353 or by writing

David Keeling, PO. Box 586, Lexington, Va. 24450.

a ee ee es ee ee eh gee

 

Dr. and Mrs. Christian D.
Eckman ‘90, a daughter,
Elizabeth Alden on April 19, 2000.
She joins a brother, Clay, 6. The
family reside in Houston, where
Eckman ts an attending physician

in the emergency room of Ben
‘Taub Hospital.

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Forsyth
"90, a daughter, Natalie Elise, on
Nov. 30, 2000. She joins a sister,
Mackenzie. ‘The family reside in
Moundsville, W.Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry C.
Hawthorne Ill 90, a daughter,
Caroline Benthall, on Feb. 2. She
joins siblings Jane, 3, and Henry, 2.
‘The family reside in Wilmington,
N.C.

Lisa Moody Means ’90 and her
husband, J. Gregory, a son,
Anthony Patrick, on Jan. 25. He
joins a brother, Julian, 4. The fam-
ily reside in Arlington, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Poli Jr.
"90, a daughter, Madison Blake, on
May 30, 2000. She joins a sister,
Ashley, 8, and brothers Mason, 10,
and Brooks, 3. ‘The family reside in
Downingtown, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F.
Canterbury Ill 91, a daughter,
Emma Claire Darrow, on Feb. 12.
She joins a brother, Joseph, 3. After
seven years abroad, the family now
live in Seattle.

Dr. J. Matthews Stover Jr. 91 and
Ebie Pearson Stover '92, twin

, Going Twice

sons, Ryan Matthews and John
Bennett, on Jan. 24. The family
live on Pawleys Island, S.C., where
Stover is an emergency medicine
physician at Georgetown Memori-
al Hospital.

Mr. and Mrs. Brian C. Huber ’92,
a son, Campbell Morgan, on Sept.
22, 2000. Campbell got together
with future generals Madison Pat-
ton (daughter of Spencer Patton
92), Virginia Witherington (daugh-
ter of John Witherington 92) and
Andrew Pridgen (son of Franklin
Pridgen 7°92). The class of 2022

looks strong.

Andrew J. Keller "92 and Helen
Steward Keller '93, twin sons,
Hunter Steward and James
William, on May 16. The family
reside in Miami, Fla.

Elizabeth V. Yarbrough '92 and
her husband, Jim, a son, Joseph
Maxwell, on Jan. 18. He joins sib-
lings Jim, 5, and Mary Louise, 3.
‘The family reside in Anderson, S.
C., where she loves being a full-
time stay-at-home mom.

Bethany Smith Cerber '94 and
her husband, Allan, a son, Brett
Allan, on Jan. 3, 2000. She is work-
ing part time as the assistant direc-
tor of Children’s Ministries at

Westminster Presbyterian Church
in Greensboro, N.C.

David M. Schweppe '94 and
Rebecca Herring Schweppe’95,
a son, Benjamin Wyatt, on Jan. 8.

‘The family reside in Shelby, N.C.

 

SUMMER AFTERNOON, WASHINGTON AND LEE

 

UNIVERSITY, 20 x 29 1/2 INCHES (FRAMED 28

 

X S37 1/2 INCHES, NOT ILLUSTRATED). (984.

  

 

Washington and

 

7 ree

MAS GS A SZ

I

Mr. and Mrs. lan A. Falk '95, a
daughter, Susan Gracey, on March
15. The family reside in Chapel
Hill, N.C.

James M. Johnston Jr. '95 and
Shelby Kerr Johnston '95, a son,
Alec James, on May 11. ‘The fami-
ly live in St. Louis.

OBITUARIES

Col. Herbert H. Butler '28,
retired from service in the U.S.
Army, died May 28 in Woodbury,
N.J. A member of Delta Upsilon
social fraternity and valedictorian
of his class, he worked for Bell
‘Telephone in Philadelphia after
graduation. He joined the service
in 1934 and achieved the rank of

colonel before retiring in 1966.
After his military career, he was
president of Commonwealth
‘Telephone Co. in Wilkes Barre,
Pa., and later an executive for
International ‘lelephone and
‘Telegraph in Washington. Butler
worked as an aide to U.S. Rep.
Larry Hogan of Maryland in the
final stage of his career.

Roger J. Haller '28,

former quality control engineer for
duPont, died April 19, 1998, in
Buena Vista, Va. Haller was a
member of Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity and Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. J. Gordon Rennie '28,
former chief of surgical service at
Oakland Hospital, died Oct. 23,

ye a eS ee ek a ate

 

 

2000, in California. A member of
Delta Upsilon, Rennie was a lieu-
tenant commander and chief of
surgery during World War II.

John M. Stemmons ’3I,

former chairman of the Industrial
Properties Corp., died July 20 in
Dallas. Stemmons was known for
his generosity and loyalty to his
hometown of Dallas. He was an
honorary Omicron Delta Kappa
recipient and served on the W&L
Board of ‘Irustees from 1965-1977.

James W. A. Smith Jr. 33,

a retired high school English
teacher, died July 3 in Long
Branch, N.J. Smith was a Navy
veteran of World War II, serving as
lieutenant commander of artillery.

ee

 

After his military Servi
taught at Long Bra

School for 17 i wheal a

also the faculty advisor to =
school newspaper. At W&L, a
was a member of Lambda on
Alpha social fraternity. .

ce, Smi

William J. Moran Jr, "34
retired vice president of m
turing for CIBA/Geigy
ceutical Co. and former ASSOCiate
professor of chemistry at Drew
University, died Noy, 20, 2000 in
Virginia Beach. While ar W&,
Moran was a member of Pj Kappa
Phi social fraternity.

anufac-
Pharma-

Thomas E. Sparks '35L,

a lawyer and civic leader, died
June 29 in Fordyce, Ark. He

 

 

 

Higher Education community advisory committee. In 1972, he

sa

ouglas E. Vat (Grady died Oct |.

Brady, who graduated from W&L with a degree in engineering, was tapped by W&L for honorary membership in Omicron Delta

worked as an electrical engineer for Carolina Aluminum Co. from Kappa, which honors public service.

1937 until 1947. At that time, fe

returned to Lexington, where he served

Favorite among his civic activities were those involving histo- _

ry. Brady was an active member of the —

 

Rockbridge Historical Society and wrote

   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Washington and Lee as superintendent

of buildings and grounds, now known as several monographs on early history of 7

the physical plant department. He the county, with some emphasis on iron _

retired as plant projects manager in 1992. forges. ‘The history of the county and the ~

In that position, he played a major role in history of his family were much inter —

planning and coordinating such major twined. He also was a member of the

construction projects as Sydney Lewis Historical Lexington Foundation and —
Hall for the School of Law, Leyburn

Library, Woods Creek Apartments and

the Stonewall Jackson House. He was —
an elder at Lexington Presbyterian
Church, where, most recently, Brady
worked with Frank Parsons ’54 on coor
dinating restoration of the historic
church after the fire in July 2000.
Parsons told The News-Gazette im
Lexington, “The first day I came
W&L to work decades ago, Pat and
Henry Ravenhorst °35 [an architect]
took me to the Co-op to get a cup of cof-@
fee, and they looked out for me evel

. ‘ A 2 ’ ‘
since. ... lo listen to those wise men reminisce about the area $ his

Warner Center. More than that, Professor
Emeritus John Gunn said, “He was

keeper of the University’s traditions, his-

 

torian of things not covered by the
University’s official historian.”
Brady is just as well known for his

civic involvement. He was mayor of

PAT BRADY IN FRONT OF LEYBURN

Lexington from 1964 to 1971, having

LIBRARY AT HIS RETIREMENT IN 1992.

 

 

previously served as a member of the
‘Town Council. Matt Paxton Jr. ’49, for-

mer publisher of 74e News-Gazette, recalled that Brady “presided

. . . . . 1 es
over council meetings with such dignity and calmness that nearly a eee eee ee

. . . “ ; ma
everyone had tremendous confidence in his fairness.” Gunn recalled that Brady was “a quiet leader. . . . He may

Brady was a former member of the county welfare board, the have touched the lives of more people in more different sectol a

this community than anyone else in the last half century.”

Lexington Board of Zoning Appeals and the Lexington Planning
He is survived by his wife, Mary, and one daughter, Sus

Commission. He chaired the 1966 Lexington-Rockbridge United

Way drive and was past chairman of the Virginia Consortium for who lives in California.

 

DA cAcse AA SZ ol eNe E

Lexe ME ACLU Wen

Wears th 4 woget 6 and

el

 

—

‘eutenant in the Navy

- World Wart I, and after the
7. returned to his law prac-
a pe Fordyce. Sparks was elect-
- ix, two-ycal terms in the
: house of representa-
also active in

served as 4 :

f Sig :
BD cerved on the Fordyce Bank
P Trust board of directors and
» trustee of the Hendrix

: S i . . .
; e alumni association.

Colleg

A. Sweet '36,
president of the North
Side Bank in Bristol, Conn., died
June 6 in Englewood, Fla. He was
, member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa
and the 1934 Southern Confer-
ence Championship Football

team.

Robert E. Craham '37,'39L,

former president of the G&W
Real Estate Co. and Sumter, S.C.,
mavor, died July 28 in Columbia,
SC. He served with the 36th
Division during World War II and
was extensively decorated for his
courage and bravery. Graham was
amember Omicron Delta Kappa,
Cotillion Club, Pi Alpha Nu and
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Dr. Crover Herbert '38,

retired surgeon and former presi-
dent of the Oahu unit of the
American Cancer Society, died
Oct. 4, 2000 in Honolulu. He was
a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity, outdoor track and
Tau Kappa Iota.

Alfred C. Morgan Jr. ‘38,

former district manager with
lextileather and director of sales
of the Cooney Weiss Fabric Corp.,
died April 4 in Duxbury, Mass.
Morgan served in the armored
infantry as a sergeant major and

Was a member of Beta Theta Pi
Social fraternity.

Courtland N. Smith Jr. '38,
ow manufacturer and distribu-
. of car-wash equipment, died
mt. 16, 2000, in West Harwich,
™ a Was member of Lambda
Alpha social fraternity.

_ F Delehanty "41,

““ ftom the  Veteran’s
ton, died July 9 in
a, . N.Y. Delehanty
Bnd 1. e Navy asa naval avia-

Dich oh q Switched Services to
ioinin a tmy Air Force before

5 the Veteran’s Administra-

tion in 1957.

Dr. Henry M. Winans Jr. '41,

a retired physician, died June 24 in
Dallas. Winans earned his medical
degree from what is now Baylor
College of Medicine before begin-
ning his 28-year solo practice. He
was an electronic communications
officer during World War II. He
was a member of Sigma Nu social
fraternity, the Dallas Internists
Club, the Dallas Academy of
Medicine and the ‘Texas Medical
Association.

James C. Evans '44, '48L,
former lawyer, died Oct. 24, 2000,
in Slate Lick, Pa. He served in the
8th Air Force as a pilot during
World War II. Evans was a mem-
ber of Alpha ‘Tau Omega social fra-
ternity, the Cotillion Club and Phi
Delta Phi.

Samuel C. Williams '44,

former head guidance counselor at
St. Paul’s School for Boys, died
June 7 in Ligonier, Pa. Williams
joined the Army Air Corps during
World War II, and was discharged
in 1945 with the rank of lieu-
tenant. Williams was a member of
the Maryland State Scholarship
board.

Charles M. Weeks '46,

retired district manager of the
Aluminum Co. of America, died
July 6 in Evanston, Ill. He was a
member of Phi Delta ‘Vheta social
fraternity.

Dr. James H. Sammons '47,
distinguished physician and for-
mer executive vice president of
the American Medical Associa-
tion, died June 17 in Chicago. A
member of Kappa Alpha social
fraternity, he started a family
practice before joining the AMA
and eventually chairing its board
of trustees. After retirement in
1990, Sammons created ‘The
James H. - Sammons, M.D.
Scholarship, given to a deserving
W&L student on the basis of
financial need.

James O. Porter '48L,

retired partner of the Huddleston,
Bolen, Beatty, Porter & Copen law
firm, died July 28 in Huntington,
W.Va. Porter served with the U.S.
Army Air Corps during World War
II. He was a member of the board
of editors of the W&L Law Review,
Phi Alpha Delta, West Virginia
State Bar Association, American
Bar Association and past president

i a ee ee ee ee

 

: : | Pp r ofe s s 5 r of : Chinese, ‘Ha rold Hill :

arold Hill, professor of Chinese at Washington

and Lee University, died Friday, Aug. 31 after a lengthy illness. Hill joined

the W&L faculty in 1970 and taught German language and literature,

Chinese language and litera-
ture and Russian. While at
W&L, he co-founded and
served as director of the East
Asian Studies Program from
1975 to 1980 and again from
1989 to 1992. He was also
head of the East Asian lan-
guages and literatures depart-
ment for 11 years.

Will father of
Margaret Scott ’05, said his

Scott,

daughter wanted to come to
W&L largely because of a let-
ter she received from Hill
announcing that he had been
assigned as her academic

advisor. In the letter, Hill

i

HAROLD HILL

 

encouraged the young woman to write and tell him something about her-

self and to feel free to call him with any questions. “We really care about

our students, and you’ll never be just another face in the classroom,” Hill

wrote.

An East Asian Studies scholarship fund at W&L is being established in

Hill’s name.

of Marshall University alumni
association.

William H. Corbin '50,
former FBI agent and vice presi-
dent of Penn ‘Iraffic Co., died Oct.
1, 2000, in Punta Gorda, Fla.
Corbin, a member of Delta ‘Tau
Delta social fraternity, served with
the Naval Reserves during World
War II. While at W&L, he was a
member of Alpha Epsilon Delta
and Pi Alpha Nu.

Thomas S. Kirkpatrick Jr. 50,
a retired vice president of A.B.
Burton Construction Co., died
March 22 in Lynchburg, Va.
During World War II and the
Korean War, Kirkpatrick served as
a paratrooper. He was a member of
Delta ‘Tau Delta social fraternity
and Omicron Delta Kappa.
Kirkpatrick volunteered with
Meals on Wheels, the Lynchburg
Area Food Bank and Daily Bread.

Dr. Everett M.

McClintock '5I,

retired obstetrician, died July 25 in
West Palm Beach, Fla. Mc-
Clintock worked with Drs.
Masters and Johnson before serv-
ing on the ship HOPE, giving
medical aid to the poor around the
world. He was a member of Sigma
Chi social fraternity, White Friars,
Cotillion Club and Alpha Epsilon
Delta.

Dr. Richard B. Raines '57,
a Memphis urologist, a pioneer in
managed health care and a founder
of Hospital Wing air ambulance ser-
vice died Sept. 9. Raines was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
(president), University Glee Club,
Commerce fraternity, Interfrater-
nity Council, White Friars and the
swim team. He also served on the
Memphis committee for “On the
Shoulders of Giants” capital cam-
paign, which concluded in 1995.
Raines earned his medical degree

 

 

from the University of “Tennessee
Health Science Center. He prac-
ticed urology for more than 30 years
and was among the first physicians,
in the early ’80s to establish
MetroCare Physicians, an organiza-
tion of doctors. He served as chair-
man of Health Choice, the managed
care partnership between Metro-
Care Physicians and Methodist
Healthcare. He also was founder of
the Raines-Cox Research Institute,
which supports prostate cancer
research. He was a member of the
Memphis Rotary and served as an
executive board vice president for
the Boy Scouts of America.

Richard C. Lewis '58L,
of Rock Hill, S.C., died Dec. 6,
2000 in Charlotte, N.C.

Charles T. Davis '59,

a former engineering consultant,
died April 4 in Woodstock, Va.
Davis was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity and the
White Friars.

Dr. Bobby M. Crider ’'6I,

an oral and maxillofacial surgeon,
died Jan. 12 in Ashland, Ky. Crider
was a member of Omicron Delta
Upsilon and Phi Delta. He was a
Navy veteran, a member of the
Boyd County board of health,
American Board of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery and the
Kentucky and West Virginia
Boards of Oral Surgery.

Robert P. Kennedy Jr. '64,
a representative for National
Safety Associates, died June 3 in
Atlanta. Kennedy, an art dealer,
combined his love of art with his
love of travel and accumulated an
extensive and renowned art collec-
tion. He was a member of Sigma
Chi social fraternity.

Charles T. Armstrong '67,
a former president of the Alexandria
Bar Association and the Federal Bar
Association for Virginia’s eastern dis-
trict, died June 23 in Slanesville,
W.Va. Armstrong, a member of the
wrestling team and Kappa Alpha
social fraternity, served in the Navy
during World War II.

Cmdr. Robert Allan
Schegel '85

died Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack
on the Pentagon in Washington.
(See related story on page 35.) He
graduated magna cum laude from
W&L with a degree in journalism
and French, and he was a member

of Chi Psi fraternity. He attended

the U.S. Navy Officers’ Candidate
School in Newport, R.I., graduating
with a commission as a Navy ensign.
For 14 years, he served a number of
duty stations in Norfolk, including
assignments onboard the USS’
Spartanburg Gounty, the USS Harry
E.. Yarnell, at the Fleet Combat
‘Training Command, Atlantic,
onboard the USS Scof, and in the
office of the Commander in Chief,
U.S. Atlantic Fleet. From May of
1999 to September of 2000, he was
the executive officer onboard the
USS Arthur W. Radford. He was
transferred to the Pentagon to serve
on the staff of the Chief of Naval
Operations, earning the rank of
commander in August. He held a
master’s degree in international rela-
tions from Old Dominion Univer-
sity in Norfolk, Va., and received a
Naval War College diploma for
completion of the Joint Professional
Military Education program. His
awards include the Purple Heart,
the Meritorious Service Medal, four
Navy and Marine Corps Commen-
dation Medals, a Navy and Marine
Corps Achievement Medal, five Sea
Service Deployment Ribbons, the
Armed Forces Service Medal, a
NATO Medal, an Armed Forces
Expeditionary Medal, a Meritorious
Unit Commendation, and a
National Defense Service Medal.
He was originally from Gray, Maine.

Ken Smith '79,

the deputy editorial page editor of
The Washington Times, died July 3 in
Alexandria, Va. Smith spent his
entire career in the newspaper
business, beginning as a part-time
reporter for the Lexington News
Gazette while still a student at
W&L. He then joined the Danville
Register as a feature writer, but soon
became an editorial writer. In 1984,
Smith moved to the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, earning a name for
himself with editorials that chal-

_ lenged Richmond’s real estate

taxes and opposed environmental-
ists’ proposed uranium mine in
Pittsylvania County. Five years
later, he moved to The Washington
Times. Earlier this year, Smith won
the Mark ‘Twain Award, given for
editorial writing by the Associated
Press. He was a member of the

W&L football team.

James A. Cadiel '00

died Sept. 11, in the terrorist attack
on the World ‘Irade Center in New
York City. (See related story on
page 35). He worked for the bond
brokerage firm of Canter Fitzger-
ald on the 103rd floor of ‘Tower

a a! oe ee ee ee ee

One. At W&L, he was an econom- Kent, Conn., and
ics major and a member of Sigma
Nu fraternity. He was a native of

Armchairs and Rock

 

 
   
     
      
 
   
 
  

Housatonic Valley Regional Bill
School in Falls Village. ¢

 

WASHINGTON AND am

 

The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in blac
finish with cherry arms. The five-color crest of the Un
painted on the back of each chair or rocker. ‘They are attract
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for bi
graduation, Christmas, anniversaries or weddings. All pro’
sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory
Graham ’14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed
ing (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&
Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to: Washing}
Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

(1 BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $295)
[11 ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $275)

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP 1O

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT () VISA. © MASTERCARD CO) CA

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WEL
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. —

 

Weis hArmgeét soo gin od

Eseag: MEE sigiid tas en

 

DA 2 ASS GOA eZ 2s TONG EE

Bnce again—foundation work

eration

ee ee i ey ay
University Co

 

 

‘The blasts were conducted underground in late
September and early October. Pictured here, slightly

Ceca Lo a 32 ae ate ae to the left and in front of Reid Hall, is the retaining

wall for a new terrace that will link the Commons to
Leyburn Library and Reid Hall (above right)
Meanwhile, contractors ran into a few surprises
in the renovation of Reid Hall (above left), which
will house the “new” journalism department,
completely refitted for the digital age. If walls could
talk, they might be able explain the presence of two
fireplaces, (left) that were revealed when the build-
ing was gutted. One was located in the journalism
library, but the one directly above it had been hid-
den behind a wall for years. Reid Hall was built in
1904 for engineering and physics. It was renovated
for journalism in 1963, but profound changes in the
news industry rendered facilities obsolete.
Journalism students are attending classes in a series

of double-wide trailers until work is completed.

 

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

The Washington and Lee University
Bit MNT MAGAZINE
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 22450

WWW.Wiu.edu

Washington and Lee’s Web pages get more exciting all the time.
krom www.wlu.edu you can find:

News on the University’s search for a new president
www.wlu.edu/presidential search

Islamic reaction to the World Irade Center attacks ,
www.wlu.edu/~lubint/

Background on Afghanistan
Williams.wlu.edu

University calendar of events |
www.wlu.edu/calendars

Ways to give
support.wlu.edu
Applications for a lifetime e-mail address

and news of a ski trip and reunion
alumni.wlu.edu

 

