2002

 

 

(above) ACTING PRESIDENT
LARRY BOETSCH ’69, KEYNOTE
SPEAKER ROGER MUDD ’50 AND
CORINNE CARTER THOMAS ’O2,
PRESIDENT OF ODK CIRCLE.

(right) BREAK-OUT SESSIONS
STIMULATED DISCUSSION, IDEAS.

The Washington and Lee Institute for Honor premiered on Founders’ Day,

Jan. 18,
It is an outgrowth of the leadership role the University played a decade ago in Joining

23 other institutions in founding the Center for Academic Integrity. The institute
is funded by $750,000 in gifts from the class of 1960. --- -- {Read more on page 4.)
(above left) THE INSTITUTE OPENED WiTH

AN ASSEMBLY IN LEE CHAPEL. ROGER MupDp
°SO DELIVERED THE KEYNOTE ADDRESS.

) ACTING PRESIDENT LARRY
BOETSCH ’69 MADE REMARKS.

: erinionorsnitrveanranaseperisinioseessronemenesavenct

 

 

 

 

 

Ld E LESSON SOVOPROM THEO Vewe | By Brian Logue

Boselli Foundation spotlight shines on Jake Kimball ’95, Most Valuable ‘Teacher.

LIFTING ERY Fe Te s | By Laura Parsons

Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon 93, a girl named “of lyric poetry” has grown

into a strong woman and an emerging poet.

were rte, OF TOLERANCE AND FRUST | By Deborah Marquardt

Lexington and Washington and Lee. What does the future hold for this town and gown relationship?

CONFLICT, CONSENSUS. Site MMe Y ! By Matt Jennings °93

Jimmy Moses ’71 learns the delicate art of negotiating a dream.

0 = oe eg Ne

 

 

EW Avumni PRESIDENT’S 4 COLONNADE WY cenerats’ REPORT
JOURNAL Institute for Honor, employment out- Basketball’s Jessica Mentz’s and
Russ Chambliss ’74 on the campaign. look, ROTC seniors face the future. Megan Babst’s record-setting careers.
mer ters W&L LAW 35 Wn NEWS
riends, teachers remembered. Civil War stories, faculty abroad. Reunion weekend, an Olympic run and

wee eh ees a
Pm OOO es 64 6st
it oy Oe ee ee ee ee

ddd JHE, AT ht pic et cs must-see ‘I'V.

ee eer errr rere rere eee eee ee eeeeeeseeeeeereeeeeeseseeene

: ; . 5 JAMES G. LEYRURN LIBRARY _
Cover photograph by lan Bradshaw WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY’
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

 

VOLUME 76 | NUMBER 4

WINTER 2002 ~ oe

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Deborah Marquardt | University Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Lisa Bacon, James Crichlow, Brian Logue,

Laura Parsons, lan Bradshaw | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely '73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. 60, Rector
Laurent Boetsch ’69, Acting President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop II ’68 (F lourtown, Pa.)
Wilham P. Boardman ’63, ‘691. (Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

J. Donald Childress 70 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport IIT 69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T- Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

Wilham H. Fishback Jr: ’56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom ’73 (Columbia, S.C.)

Wilham R. Goodell ’SoL. (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell IIT ’69, 751. (Richmond)

Wilham B. Hill Jr. ’74, 771 (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, 621. (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr: °62 (Hillsborough, Calif.)
Wilham J. Kimmel °69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)

John Klinedinst 71, °78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, 691. (Houston)

Thomas N. McJunkin ’70 °74L. (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Momer ’62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood ’69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)
Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Matthew G. Thompson ’64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. ’63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm °68, ’75L. (Adlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White ’77L. (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-463-8400

Publications Office 540-463-8956
Admissions Office 540-463-8710
Alumni Office 540-463-8464

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu
Career Services 540-463-8595
Development Office 540-463-8410

News Office 540-463-8460

Sports Information Office 540-463-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-463-8998
WSL Home Page www.wlu.edu

MAR 18 2002

Oe ce ee ea Se ee

| raditions. I have to admit I am a sucker for them,

“Whether it’s family, church, business or the organizations with which I’m involved, |
am attracted to the traditions surrounding that particular part of my life.

Washington and Lee is no exception, and, as we all know, W&L is blessed with

many wonderful traditions—honor, academic excellence, speaking, leadership, ser-

vice, Close friendships with the faculty and fun. There is also the tradition of gen-

 

erosity, which is probably one of our oldest and strongest. You can go all the way back
to George Washington and find it. Without his generous gift, our beloved school
might never have made it. Gen. Robert E. Lee also generously gave his leadership
skills, at a time when it might have been more
financially profitable to do other things, in order
that the school might produce the leaders to help
rebuild the South. ‘There are thousands of others
who have been most generous with their time, tal-
ents and treasure that have helped make W&L
the special institution that it is today. We have a
great deal to be thankful for.

Another tradition found at W&L is that of
responsibility. If our University is to continue its
mission and traditions, it is up to those of us who
have benefited from and love the school to see

that it continues and grows. Consistent with this

RUSS CHAMBLISS ’74,
PRESIDENT,
W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
RCHAMBLISS@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

tradition, the school launched a $225 million capi-
tal campaign in October appropriately entitled
“For the Rising Generation.” This campaign will

 

provide the funding necessary to help meet the
challenges and needs of the 21st century. You can find out more about the details of
the campaign on the Web site, support.wlu.edu.

At press time, we have raised about $173 million. This is a great beginning, but
we still have a ways to go to reach the final goal. I am calling on all alumni who have

*) yet to be involved in the campaign to help us
To learn about

:
ee
%
8

achieve the remaining $55 million.

     

the campaign, visit Realizing that we are all in different circum-

support.wlu.edu. stances, I ask that each of you participate at a
level that is right for you. At some point, a mem-
ber of the campaign committee will ask you to make a contribution “For the Rising
Generation.” Those capable of making larger gifts will be asked to do so. Those
whose circumstances are different will be asked to participate in a different way. The
important thing to remember is that all gifts are significant, needed and appreciated.
Also in this campaign, a gift to the Annual Fund, or an increase in the size of your
pledge to the Fund, is counted in the campaign. Annual Fund gifts are very impor-
tant to the University’s daily operation. So you can see there are a number of ways to
be involved.

As we begin this new year, please take some time and reflect on what your
experience at W&L has meant to your life. If you are like me, you probably have
received much more from the school than you could ever give back. When a mem-
ber of the committee calls, please help. In doing so you will be doing your part to help

carry on the tradition. ¢

Waehinoien and fee PR ALuMNt

 

M A G A 2 i Ff

 

 

 

 

 

 

—  ——

Open for ! nspiration
Finishing another great issue of
he Wel alumni magazine
t

rompted me to send you a quick
P .
th well-written and beau-

note. Bo "
tifully designed, Its es a pul
atic ading it 1s just
_

like being on campus. When I
come to the end of each issue,
d the great-

ly a publi-

yn to savor. Re

I'm prompted to rea
sounding books and learn more
about the thought-provoking top-
ics the magazine presents. But
most of all, I’m inspired by the
fine things happening academi-
cally at W&L.

Your magazine provides a real
incentive for me to stay on track
with my personal and professional
development goals. ‘Thank you!

Betsy Butler

Exchange Student, ’89-'90;
SBC '91

Worthington, Ohio

Tribute to a Classmate

I noted the obituary of Frederick
H. Pitzer °42. ‘To those of us priv-
ileged to serve with him on the
committee that planned the
Class of 1942’s 50th reunion,
everything about Fred Pitzer was
legendary. As the guiding spirit
behind the reunion, he and class
president Edgar Boyd led a drive
that produced what then was a
class record—a $2.6 million gift.
Not content, Fred gathered his
committee together again and

prodded us into a $45,000 fund

Write to WEL

By Mail: University Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-463-8024

AU letters should be signed and include the
author’s name, address and daytime
ber: Letters selected for public ‘ation m
for length, content and style.

the views of their authors an
those of the editorial board

phone num-
ay be edited

Signed articles reflect
d not necessarily

or the University,

drive, which was used to over-
haul and improve the Alumni
House in honor of our 55th
reunion in 1997.

At the time of his death, Fred
had embarked his committee on
still another campaign, this one
to refurbish the third floor of the
Alumni House, to be completed
for our 60th anniversary in 2002.
It’s too bad Fred won’t be there
to see it come to fruition, but he
will be there in spirit.

Fred Pitzer was the heart, the
soul and the conscience of the
Class of 1942.

W. Marshall Johnson °42
Richmond

Lasting Impressions

 

We have come to the conclusion
that the W&L experience is
“undefinable.” ‘There is no way
to completely and accurately
describe the mark that W&L
leaves on a family. We do know
that the mark is made indelible
by those such as the late Harold
Hill (professor of Chinese). It
deeply saddened us to learn of
his loss, and we know that many
families like ours will always
remember this fine man.

Donald, Barbara and

Christa Kirby 96

Coudersport, Pa.

Help If You Can

Having co-chaired the last capital

 

campaign with ‘Iom Wolfe ’51
(New York City Chapter), I visited
Lexington in October for the
launch of the new campaign. It is
very important for alumni to
remember and to support the
University in any way that they can.

All of us will miss John
Elrod—his warmth and his lead-
ership—and look forward to a

new president assuming the

 

Sept. 11

If I can say one thing about my
years at W&L, it would have to be
that it helped me shape my moral
character into the gentleman.

On the morning of Sept. 11,
working in the downtown Man-
hattan area, I was tested by my
conduct as an American and a
W&L gentleman. [That night] I
returned home from work via
many detours to inspect my pos-
sessions and what could be left of
my life as I knew it. I immediately
headed to the volunteer line. I was
able to find a post helping rescue
workers from out of state. | got
home very late and turned on the
television. It landed on the “700
Club.” There was the Rev. Jerry
Falwell bantering with none other
than our own alumnus the Rev. Pat
Robertson °50. ‘They discussed,
and agreed, on what had caused
this horrible tragedy. ‘The fault lies
with the abortionists, feminists,
gays, lesbians, etc., they said. At
the very moment we as a nation
needed to come together, they
chose to drive the stake deeper.

‘The next day, I returned to the
volunteer lines, which included
Jews, Christians, Muslims, Bud-
dhists and atheists. I was doling out
water, when I came across two con-
struction workers wearing W&L
Law ‘Fshirts. Granted, shirts had
been donated by the thousands to
the workers. “he thought that
these might be fellow alumni lifted
my spirits fora moment. I started
to say something, but | stopped.
What if they had seen the ‘700
Club’? What would they think of
me? I found myself not question-
ing my American citizenship, not
my compassion as a volunteer, not
even my forgiveness as a Christian,
but what I thought was my honor
as a W&L gentleman. ‘This has
been very unsettling.

I would like to ask the W&L

 

reins. community to react, to write to
Oliver M. Mendell ’50 Rev. Robertson and tell him what
New York City you think.
Barry D. Godin 78
New York City
ead fee PB arumni PAGAezeiN §&

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

S>

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

Russell W. Chambliss ’74, President (Birmingham, Ala.)

Wilham P. Wallace Jr. °74, °77L, Vice President
(Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish IIT °76, Executive Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman °91 (Morristown, N.J.)
Robert M. Balentine Jr. °79 (Atlanta)

Amy C. Balfour ’89, ’93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
William M. Ball IIT ’69 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Barry O. Barlow °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow 87 (Littleton, Golo.)

Roger G. Bowers ’94L. (Richmond)

James R. Brooks °77 (Houston)

John M. Cleghorn °84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

J. Hagood Elison Jr. °72 (Columbia, S.C.)

John M. Falk ’86, ’g0L. (Washington)

Peter C. Keefe °78 (Washington)

B. Christopher Lee ’71 (Philadelphia)

Devon A. McAlister ’92 (San Franctsco)

David 8. Makepeace ’S8 (Raleigh, N.C.)

Theodore B. Martin Jr. ’&0 (Chicago)

The Hon. Wilham Ray Price Jr. °78 (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Hugh L.. Robinson Il So (Balnmore)

Bradley B. Root ’S8 (Pittsburgh)

William W. Schaefer ‘60 (Memphis, Tenn.)

William M. Toles ’92, 951 (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus °83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Lizanne Thomas ’82L,, President (Atlanta)

James J. Kelley Il ’74L., Vice President (Washington)

David L. Baird Jr.°71L., Immediate Past President
(Houston)

Law Council

Loranne Ausley ‘90L (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Daniel T. Balfour °63, °65L. (Richmond)

Joseph W. Brown ’68L (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L. (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin ’90, °93L (Louisville, Ky.)
E.. Townes Duncan ’78L (Nashville, Tenn.)
David P. Falck ’78L (New York City)

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L (New York City)

The Hon. Michael L. Krancer ’83L (Harnsburg, Pa.)
Jessine A. Monaghan °79L (Washington)

James E:. Nicholson ’77L. (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E:. Payne ’63, ’67L (Richmond)
C. Edward Russell Jr. ’67L (Norfolk)

Caroline W. Sink ’82L. (Charlotte)

Robert I. Stolzman ’S86L. (Providence, R.1.)
David G. Weaver ’81L. (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf SoL. (Washington)

Richard T. (Rick) Woulfe’’76L (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.)
Laura Anderson Wright ’94L (College Park, Md.)
Anne R. Yuengert SoL. (Birmingham, Ala.)

te

 

More than 600 Washington and
Lee University members and
guests filled Lee Chapel on Jan.

18 to celebrate Founders’ Day,

 

the initiation of 31 outstanding
students into the Omicron Delta
Kappa honor society and the
launching of the W&L Institute for
Honor—an entity that keynote speak-
er and journalist Roger Mudd said can
uniquely promote the ideals of honor-
able and ethical living in today’s com-
plex world.

“The institute should not exist
simply to make Washington and Lee
famous or to proselytize about its glo-
ries,” said Mudd ’50. “Washington

and Lee has no more calling to impose =
ne a

i

its special Honor System on other col-
leges, any more than the United
States has the right to force its special
system of democracy on other coun-
tries.

“But the institute does have an
opportunity, like no other, to demon-
strate by example,” added Mudd.
“Demonstrating by example is a wel-

come burden we carry and we have ROGER MUDD

Inaugural

Institute for Honor

nder
oe i tush. :

genie

A Oe Te a ey as ee x

 

‘vent

E

"50 DELIVERED THE

KEYNOTE ADDRESS.

carried for more than 250 years—

ODK HONOREES

W&lLs Jan. 18 Founders’ Day celebration featured three honorary
inductions into Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK), a national honorary fra-
ternity that recognizes superior leadership achievements in various
aspects of campus and community life. The honorary initiates are:

William McCorkle, an organist, harpsichordist, pianist, choral
director and composer, who has been a key part of the musical life of
Lexington and Rockbridge County for most of his 50 years;

Thomas S. Shepherd ’52, businessman, former president of
GTE (Sylvania) Lighting Products, former W&L trustee and the
founding benefactor of W&L’s acclaimed Shepherd Poverty
Program, which has touched more than 1,000 students since its
inception five years ago;

Nancy H. Shepherd, a longtime Episcopal priest of Trinity
Chapel in Shirley, Mass., and a prison ministry advocate in the
Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts. With her husband, Tom, the
Rev. Shepherd helped create a W&L Law School scholarship pro-
gram to support a minority student for work in the criminal justice

system.

 

HONORARY ODK

CEREMONY,

 

through nine Scnerations,
through 11 wars, through six
depressions and four recessions.

“If your alma mater... your
shaper and your molder hopes
you learned one thing, it js that
an ethical life, an honorable life
can also be a liberating life,” Mudd
said.

Mudd detailed the impact
W&Ls Honor System has had on his
life since his student days in the late
1940s. “What happened to me was not
quite a transformation but a realiza-
tion that I was not going to be the one
to let down my peers by flaunting a
system that they had so steadfastly
and superbly maintained,” said
Mudd, a longtime and award-winning
CBS and NBC newsman and the
A&E Cable

Network’s History Channel.

founding host on

“A college diploma means little
unless you carry with it a core of
beliefs that will give your life its
strength...a core of conduct that will
give your world its integrity and a core
of values that will give your society its
harmony,” said Mudd.

INITIATES WILLIAM MCCORKLE
(LEFT) AND THOMAS SHEPHERD ’52. NANCY
SHEPHERD, WHO WAS UNABLE TO ATTEND THE

ALSO WAS HONORED.

 

 

 

   

THE es es eo ee ae es

 

 

PTR os ra EXPERT ON ACADEMIC INTEGRITY.

 

 

Joining Mudd at
the Founders’ Day-
Institute for Honor
events was Donald
McCabe, a Rutgers
University professor
of organization man-
agement and a lead-
ing expert on acade-

mic integrity at

American colleges
and high — schools.
McCabe delivered

the keynote address
on day two of the
inaugural event.
W&Ls_ launching
of the Institute for

Honor is an outgrowth of the leadership role the University played a decade ago in joining 23

other institutions in founding the Center for Academic Integrity, formerly spearheaded by

McCabe and now based at Duke University’s Kenan Institute of Ethics. The center, whose

annual convention was hosted by W&L three years ago, has about 250 institutional members

including many of the country’s most eminent colleges and universities.

W&L alumnus Billy Schaefer spearheaded fundraising for the institute, which is being
financed by $750,000 in gifts from his fellow members of the class of 1960.

Two Named To Board of Trustees

 

Two new members were sworn in at the Feb. 8 meeting of the Board of ‘Trustees in Lexington.

J. Donald Childress '70, is a managing
partner with Childress Klein Properties, a
commercial real estate development company
with offices in Atlanta, Charlotte and
Richmnd. He is active in his community, as
chairman of the Midtown Alliance in Atlanta
and chairman of the board of Lovett School.
At Washington and Lee he has served as a
member of the Williams School Advisory
Board, as president of his alumni chapter and
as vice chairman of the campaign leadership
gifts committee during the “On the
Shoulders of Giants” capital campaign in
1990. Childress earned a master’s of business
administration from the University of Texas,

Austin. He and _ his wife, Sidney, live in
Atlanta.

Thomas N. McJunkin '70, "74L is a part-
ner with Jackson & Kelly, PL.L.C., in
Charleston, W.Va. He is active in his commu-
nity, with organizations such as the American
Heart Association, the YMCA, the Greater
Kanawha Valley Foundation Advisory Board
and the Daymark Center for Youth in Crisis.
He is also active in his church. For
Washington and Lee, McJunkin has served
the Alumni Board of Directors, the Law
Council and the alumni advisory committee
to the Shepherd Program for the Interdisci-
plinary Study of Poverty. He received the
Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2000. He is
a member of the Washington Society, has
served as a class agent and as a member of the
“On the Shoulders of Giants” capital cam-

paign Law Council committee.

for the latest information on what is happening at Washington and Lee
be sure to check out our Web site—www.wlu.edu!

 

Washington

 

Credit Worthy

 

Redrawing the Political Map

John Blackburn, instruction technology
specialist, and Mark Rush, associate
professor of politics, were awarded a
second consecutive Associated Colleges
of the South Technology grant for the
development of their redistricting
course, Seminar on ‘Technology and
Politics: The 2001 Census and the New
Political Map, which uses Geographical
Information Systems (GIS) ‘Technology.

‘This project and course represent a
first step in the development of a GIS
program that will appeal to the diverse
aspects of the liberal arts curriculum.
‘The course is intended to attract two
audiences: potential politics majors inter-
ested in voting rights and the redistrict-
ing process and generalists interested in
taking an introductory-level politics
course that includes a technology com-
ponent.

Students were introduced to the
law and politics of redistricting in the
United States and the basics of ArcView
GIS technology. ‘They combined this,
along with research on Virginia politics,
to produce new Senate district maps
that rivaled the district plans produced
by the General Assembly.

 

Energy Analysis

James R. Kahn 775, W&L’s duPont
Professor of Environmental Studies,

and his co-authors David L. Greene

 

Gone WE ow ou lane

a mn d

Mink & AZT NM FE

pee Oe eo ae

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

(Center for ‘Iransportation Analysis)
and Robert Gibson (University of
‘Tennessee, Energy and Environment
Research Center) recently received an
Outstanding Paper Award from The
Energy Journal for a paper they pub-
lished in that journal in 1999,

“Fuel Economy Rebound Effect
for U.S. Household Vehicles” presents
an econometric estimation of indirect
impacts on potential energy savings
from fuel economy improvements.
‘They concluded that the fuel savings
associated with increased fuel efficien-
cy was reduced 20 percent because
people drive more in response to lower
operating cost. In other words, if the
miles per gallon of the fleet of the
nation’s cars increased by 10 percent,
the actual reduction in fuel usage is
only eight percent.

Kahn joined the W&L faculty in
2000 and is director of the Environ-

mental Studies program.

 

Virginia’s State Tree

Paul Cabe, assistant professor of biolo-
gy, has been awarded a_ Jeffress
Research Grant for his project, “Gene
flow and population structure in
Virginia’s flowering dogwoods (Cornus
florida .).” The grant is for $28,939 and
is renewable for up to two additional
years at $10,000 per year. Cabe’s stu-
dent, J. Spencer Liles ’01, did much of
the work on the preliminary data
included in the grant and is Cabe’s co-
author on a paper entitled “Dinucleo-
tide microsatellite loci Isolated from
flowering dogwood (Cornus florida L.),”
recently accepted for publication in

Molecular Ecology Notes.

 

ot so long ago, NBC Nightly News anchor Tom Brokaw called
those men and women who defended America during World War II “the greatest generation.”
‘That duty to protect our nation now shifts to Generation X, including 12 Washington and Lee
students currently enrolled ina ROTC program at Virginia Military Institute.

Among them are two

seniors: Michael Reynold and a= ‘a
j —" é om

t

Quincy Springs. They each
made their decision to join the
Army long before the events of
Sept. 11, but neither young man
questions his choice.

“Protecting Americans, is a
privilege. Pll feel really honored
to be in an Army that’s doing
that,” said Reynold.

Springs expressed a similar
sentiment. “I’m not going to run
away from it and I’m not going to
regret it, because I went in with
a clear conscience and I’m going
to do my duty with a clear con-
science.”

‘Their duty has shifted,
however, from just a year ago.
Reynold said the ROTC students now talk about the situation in Afghanistan and the rest of the

STUDENT SOLDIERS MIKE REYNOLD
AND QUINCY SPRINGS.

 

world every time they meet. “It has definitely refocused the cadets at W&L and VMI. We’re ina dif-
ferent world right now,” Reynold noted. “In [a few] short months when I'll be graduating and they'll
be pinning gold lieutenant bars on me, it’s going to mean a lot more.”

Added Springs “A lot of my friends wouldn’t want to be in my position right now. Of course I
think about it, but I can’t create the situation in my mind. I’ma little nervous, but it’s something you
can’t even imagine.”

Even now, after Sept. 11, wearing a uniform in Lexington makes a difference to local residents.
Reynold recalls going directly to Wal-Mart after an ROTC event without changing out of his uniform.
As he was approaching the store, a young child, no more than 4 or 5 years old, stopped and saluted
him in the parking lot. “Something like that reaffirms what you are doing and makes you feel good,”
Reynold said. He also finds more tolerance and respect around campus for ROTC students than
when he was a freshman.

After they graduate, both Reynold and Springs must serve a minimum of eight years, four years
of active duty and four years of reserve duty. Reynold is applying for an educational delay to go to law
school. After graduating from law school, he said he will fulfill his commitment by practicing law for
the Army. He said the Sept. 11 incident adds uncertainty as to whether he’ll be granted the defer-
ment. However, he understands that his duty lies in where the Army needs him. “Our job is to fight
and win our wars when the president calls us,” Reynold said. “I feel honored that I’m able to defend
our country like so many other brave men and woman have done in the past. And the bottom line,
when it comes down to it, is about serving.”

Springs plans on going directly into the Army after graduation, and he is awaiting his assignment.
He will be commissioned June 5, the day before graduation. “I’m not worried whatsoever. I believe
that things will take care of themselves,” Springs said. “I have a very simplistic view. I have a duty,

and I’m going to do it.” —Susan Slopek 03

 

 

 

 

 

For

THE Os oe ee ss

 

 

Independence Day

 

Independence Day takes on new meaning at W&L. For some high school students participat-
ing in Summer Scholars, it’s a first time away from home.

The four-week program, which runs through the month of July, began in 1980 as a program
for 30 high school students, with an emphasis on reaching out to the local community. “Two
decades later it attracts as many as 150 students from 33 states and several foreign countries. ‘The
curricula has grown to include eight
areas of study, from pre-professional
areas to environmental studies.

“This is all about getting a taste
of college life,” said Mimi Milner
Elrod, director of Summer Scholars.
“I’ve always believed that Summer
Scholars should mirror W&L as close-
ly as possible. As rising high school
seniors, they have a chance to take
classes from W&L professors, spend
some time on the campus and make a
whole new set of friends.” ‘The suc-
cess of the program is reflected in the
number of students—nearly 60 per-
cent—who later apply for admission.

Former Summer Scholars who chose to attend W&L define their experience as a positive
one for many reasons. “It was my first time away from home for that long, and it really made me

4 grow as an individual. I become much more adaptable as
: \\

  

: a result,” said Kristen Mandaglio ’03. Ryan Owen ’03
more information, visit:

added, “I learned to be a little more outgoing. I had
summerscholars.wlu.edu

never seen myself as a somewhat timid person until I
was thrown into a group where [ didn’t know anyone.
Summer Scholars taught me to be more outgoing, which
really helped the first week of school freshman year.”

For many, it’s a life-changing experience. “At this stage in their lives,” Elrod explained,
“these young students are so open to thinking about new things. Some have used these four
= to figure out who they are and what they want to do. They wake up to the possibilities of
—

Additional information about the Summer Scholars program can be found on the Web at
summerscholars.wlu.edu or contact Dr. Elrod directly at Washington and Lee University, Hill
House, Lexington, Va. 24450-0303.

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

 

Medieval Ethical Debates

Ed Craun, the Henry S. Fox Jr. Professor
of English at Washington and Lee
University, has received a yearlong fellow-
ship from the National Endowment for
the Humanities. These highly competi-
tive fellowships provide opportunities for
individuals to pursue advanced work in
the humanities. Craun will use his fellow-
ship during the 2002-03 academic year to
complete his book, Fraternal Correction:
The Ethics of Social Gritasm in Medheval
English. He will spend part of the year in
England, finishing up research in universi-
ty libraries, cathedral libraries and the
British Library.

Craun’s project is a study of the ethi-
cal debates within clerical and reformist lit-
erature over how to practice fraternal cor-
rection in late Medieval England, the
often public and harsh criticism of social
evils, especially those committed by civil
and religious authorities. “What is interest-
ing about the clergy’s approach to the cor-
rection of sin is the potentially explosive
practice of imposing blame, sometimes
publicly, in order to change people’s con-
duct,” he explained. In more closely
examining the ethical nuances in these
debates, Craun hopes to open up new
ways of reading the controversies sur-
rounding social criticism in Middle
English reformist literature.

Until this grant, Craun says his
research on this project had been entirely
funded by W&L, including the Class of
62 endowment. ‘Two former W&L stu-
dents, Kelley Joy 99 and Jennifer Fisher

00, provided some research assistance.

 

 

we e«h.i « g ton and

Te

  

 

i. BT ee ee

    

 

 

Last year was a banner year for C-school majors going
into investment banking. Based on an informal survey by
John Gunn ’45, professor emeritus
of economics, 34 seniors accepted
appointments as financial analysts
with investment banking firms, a
number he believes to be larger
by 50 percent than any other class.
Other majors were poised to take
the marketplace by storm as well.
“The employment outlook for the
class of 2001 was the best I’ve
seen in 50 years,” stated Gunn.

But the picture wasn’t quite
as rosy by graduation, according to Beverly Lorig, director of
W&Ls Career Services Office. By the time spring term had
rolled around, several students who had accepted positions
with consulting firms were feeling the economic downturn
personally. Some had offers rescinded, while a few others
were asked to defer their start date anywhere from three
months to a year. Then there was Sept. 11.

“We went from a ‘wow’ year in 2000 to a ‘wow’ year in
2001 for completely different reasons,” said Lorig. “In
December 2000 students were being offered extraordinary
salaries and signing bonuses. Almost 12 months later the
offers aren’t coming in the way they used to.”

“Things are very slow for the class of 2002,” admitted
Gunn. “A number of firms that recruited here last year are not
coming back and others are saying, ‘one or two of the very
best,’ are all we will invite to headquarters for second inter-
views.” |

Looking for other possibilities, students have made

appointments with visiting management Professor Robert

 

Culpepper ’66, *69L. As the pre-law advisor, his office has
seen substantially more students investigating law schoo}
options. “Nationally, the number of
students taking the LSAT is up by
23 percent,” he said. “Students are
looking at law school as a default
mechanism, as a way to defer the
job search.” It’s not something he
recommends unless a student js
committed to a career in law.

Yet the scenario isn’t as bleak as
the numbers might imply. Yes, the
unemployment rate is higher than
it’s been for years. Yes, the buzz
word is recession. Yes, the number of firms visiting campus is
down. So what’s a senior to do? Network, advised Lorig. It’s a
message emphasized in a recent Wa// Street Journal article,
which pointed out that networking is the best job search tool
for Generation Xers to baby boomers.

“I’m encouraging students—alumni, too, if they’re job
hunting—to take full advantage of W&L’s Web-based
Colonnade Connections (alumniconnections.com/wlu),” said
Lorig. “And I’m encouraging alumni to become career men-
tors to help current students with internship and job issues.”

Lorig noted that even though the bigger names didn’t
visit campus during fall term—Accenture, Credit Suisse First
Boston, J.P. Morgan—there are jobs to be had. “There are a
significant number of students who believe there are no
opportunities out there,” Lorig said. “That’s just not true.
The biggest difference is that they’ll have to look a lot hard-
er. There are lots of government positions. Many public ser-
vice organizations and even smaller, regional banking firms
are hiring. It will just take a little more effort to find them.”

 

 

 

THE OE sc ee ay aso ak

      

 

 

 

nary Dell computer sits in one of the comput-

Anordi
Hall. Who would have guessed that’s

er labs in Parmly
1| Tom Royce (2 would have needed to make his con-
a

tribution to the w
Although the race to map the human genome ts

orld of genome sequence analysis?

over, the number of developing technologies to
understand the structure, organization and function of
any organism's DNA has only just begun.

One emerging technology associated with
genome sequencing and analysis is bioinformatics, an
aterdisciplinary field combining computer science,

statistics, mathematics and biology to address the

acquisition, storage, searching and analysis of large
amounts of biological data. It’s an area that perfectly
blends Royce’s interest in biology with his computer
science major.

Royce spent his summer as a Robert E. Lee
Research Scholar developing an algorithm that could
search and compare genomic sequences faster and
more efficiently than existing algorithms.

“We know that DNA is comprised of strings of
base pairs, A-T and G-C,” explained Royce. “What
interests biologists is comparing one string against
another to see where there are overlaps or gaps in the
genome sequence. But this takes a lot of memory to
process—some strings are 4 million or more characters
long.”

Royce tested his algorithm on several different
strains of the tuberculosis bacterium, which has the
advantage of being much, much shorter than the
human genome. He and his faculty advisor, Rance
Necaise, assistant professor of computer science, were
most interested in developing a robust program that
performed the string search and comparison better

than the existing programs. They succeeded, balanc-

 

ing a slightly longer running time of two minutes with

Increased memory efficiency.

“A biologist could use this program to see where a gene might one else. Royce, who will continue this summer project as an hon-
have been inserted, deleted or mutated,” said Royce. ors thesis, is busy thinking about how to make his program even
Understanding the genetic sequencing has all sorts of implications faster and maybe creating a graphical user interface.

for biomedical research,” he added. But that’s a project for some-

 

CALENDAR OF EVENTS |

March I, 8: Legal Ethics Institute March 22: Fancy Dress

March 14: Phi Beta Kappa and Society of the Cincinnati May 8: Endowed Professorship Lecture. O. Kendall White Jr.,
Convocation. | the William P. Ames Jr. Professor of Sociology/Anthropology

March 15: Journalism Ethics Institute May 12: Law Commencement

March 22: Law Center Symposium. The Jurisprudential Legacy June 5: Undergrad baccalaureate

of the Warren Court June 6: Undergrad commencement

 

 

Washington and Axe Se oe se MA G@ A 42212 NE

THE ER so ee ae ee ee

 

 

hollowing the tragic events of Sept. 11, many university travel programs suffered a sudden rash of cancellations aa

 

Americans abandoned their vacation plans. Most W&L travelers, however, held firm. Four groups of 30 to 35 travel-
ers each spent a week in Tuscany, with
many extending their Itahan holiday
with three days in Venice. How was it?
“In many ways,” says Jack Cover ’63,
“Tt far exceeded expectations—a beau-
tiful respite from the worries of the
world.” The Captain’s Log agrees:

Saturday, Oct. 13: ‘Today on our drive to
Volterra, we discover again why the Tuscan
countryside is justifiably famous: a patch-
work of fields stretching across rolling hills
peaked with villas or small villages, many of
them surrounded by ancient walls and dom-
inated by an old bell tower. Cyprus trees rise
everywhere like exclamation points, dabs of
dark green against the golden vineyards and

silvery green groves of olive trees. It is so pic-

 

turesque that one immediately suspects

touristic manipulation. But, after a spell of

 

time, one yields to its authenticity and accepts the fact that there tions at the Academy, the Uffizi and Santa Croce. The art of the
are still some places in the world that haven’t changed as rapidly Italian Renaissance, splendid in Florence’s many magnificent
as our county. luscany seems paintings by Giotto, Botticelli, Leonardo, Michelangelo and
to have discovered some time Raphael, always seems to have the effect of enlivening the faces
For more intormation g° ago how it wants to live. For and colors of this world. Perhaps that is what art is supposed to do,
to: alumnicollege.wlu.edu generations now, it has pur- after all. ‘(here is, in this way, a dynamic reciprocity between the
sued a comfortable, amiable ‘Tuscans and their treasures. They not only own most of the mas-
existence amidst some of terpieces of Western art, they are animated by them.

Europe’s most charming surroundings.
; ie —Rob Fure, Director, Special Programs
Yesterday, during our tour of Florence, we visited the collec-

Upcoming Travel:

 

May I-9: ‘The Romance of Tuscany
May 19-31: Danube River Journey
May 29-June 8: Danube River Journey
Aug. 13-22: Village Life in Scotland

Aug. 25-Sept. 6: American Majesty—The Wonders
of Alaska

Sept. I-Sept. 13: American Majesty—The Wonders
of Alaska

 

 

 

Washington and ee, Miss @ A @2se 0 8

 

 

THE Cc Oo LON NAD FE

 

—

university History

Field Trips

Eor Young Minds

All roads lead to Lexington when it comes to field trips. Loaded with

historic sites
children to several of America’s most influential leaders.

and museums, the town is the perfect place to introduce

No visit is complete without a stop at Lee Chapel and Museum.
The museum underwent extensive renovations prior to the
University’s 250th anniversary, and the physical transformation was
stunning, turning the lower level into a world-class exhibit. ‘The job,
however, wasn't finished. “Part of my role is to develop educational
programs for both the University community and general public,”
said Patricia Hobbs, director of Lee Chapel and Museum. “Last year
over 5,200 school children visited Lee Chapel. For a long time I’ve
wanted to provide them with an educational experience more suit-
able for their ages.”

With the help of Nan Partlett, director of W&Ls newly formed
teacher education program, Ted DeLaney ’85, associate professor of
history, and Amanda Adams ’02, Hobbs spearheaded an elegant solu-
tion. It crystallized one day when Adams, a work-study for Hobbs
since her freshman year, asked for help in finding a summer job.

“T invited her to work for me,” said Hobbs. “It was such an obvi-
ous choice. Amanda knows Lee Chapel so well, she’s a history major
and she was taking courses through the W&L teacher education pro-
gram, which made her particularly suited to working on this project.”
DeLaney served as the faculty advisor, opening up access to R.E. Lee
Scholarship funds, and Partlett was a liaison to the local schools, help-
ing to identify their Virginia Standards of Learning (SOL) needs.

Adams spent this past summer researching and creating a series
of lesson plans geared to the exhibit in Lee Chapel and Museum.
“Based on discussions with our advisory group (comprised of local
school teachers), we knew we had an opportunity to reach out to the

community and _ pull

Sheol is 4 wonder- together materials that
ful resource for teachers a
because the exhibit cov-
ers so many different eras
in American history, from
the Colonial period to

Reconstruction.”

mally have access to,” she
said. “Right now, kids get
a diluted version of the
adult tour. But there is so

much more for them to

 

discover if you help them
make the connections.”

Her educational packet includes a teachers’ guide—instructions
on how to find Lee Chapel, points of interest on both levels and a
walk-through of the exhibit. “It’s information teachers need to have
” Por can plan the trip.” Her lesson plans on the history of the
University cover such topics as the life of Robert E. Lee, a compari-
r n of boys’ and girls’ education in the 19th century and a look at John
Chavis, W&L's first African-American student.

 

AMANDA ADAMS ’O2 HELPED CREATE LESSON PLANS
FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN FROM W&L HISTORY.

 

“Amanda did a wonderful job of imagining what would inter-
est a 9- or 10-year-old,” noted Partlett. “She had to take off her
researcher’s hat and put on her teacher’s hat, which isn’t as easy as it
sounds.”

While Adams has continued to refine her initial work and is
turning it into an honors thesis, her focus now is to post her lesson
plans and teachers’ guide on the Web. “The next step is to test the
lesson plans this spring when teachers and children are here for field
trips. We’re interested in seeing what works and what doesn’t,” she
said.

The beauty of this project is that is doesn’t end here. “Lee
Chapel is a wonderful resource for teachers because the exhibit cov-
ers so many different eras in American history, from the Colonial
period to Reconstruction” explained Hobbs. “There are many top-
ics for which we can create additional lesson plans.”

This summer, Ann Baily Lynn ’03, a religion major who 1s also
in the education program, will develop a lesson plan and activities
based on character education. “I’m so pleased that the museum is
able to offer more programs to school groups in a way that expands
the academic and hands-on opportunities for our own students,”
said Hobbs. 4

 

 

 

H. ALEXANDER WISE JR. °88L

H. Alexander Wise Jr. °88L believes it’s time to tell the whole story of
the Civil War. And he wants to tell it in one, all-inclusive museum,
which, he says, has never been done.

“What we're going to try to do is get to the heart of the interrela-
tionship of the three stories,” says Wise. “Union, Confederate and
African-American.” As president of the
‘Tredegar National Civil War Center
Foundation, Wise hopes this new muse-
um will show how all three groups were
fighting for the legacy of the American
Revolution as they saw it.

But is Richmond—where the dis-
pute over the placement of a statue of tennis legend Arthur Ashe, an
African-American, made national news, as did the highly protested
hanging of a portrait of Robert E. Lee on the city’s Canal Walk—a like-
ly place to do it?

“Richmond,” he says, “is the ideal place to begin, because it’s
where so much of the history happened.” In Wise’s opinion, Richmond
museums have done a good job of beginning to flesh out the story. He
points to the Museum of the Confederacy’s groundbreaking, national-
ly acclaimed exhibit, “Before Freedom Came,” focusing on African-
Americans in the antebellum South. And he applauds
the Valentine Museum and the Virginia Historical
Society for their efforts, as well. “But no one has fully
presented the Civil War story in its three major dimen-
sions: Union, Confederate and African-American.”

Historically, the South hasn’t been known for

 

Three Views

Civil War Story

Under One Roof?

— BY

Lisa Antonelli Bacon

 

 

PHOTO By JOE MAHONEY

such tolerant views. But Wise says his ideas are in perfect keeping with
the wishes of one of W&L’s founding fathers, Gen. Robert E. Lee, who
wanted to see the war told—or retold—from perspectives other than
the one most Southerners are accustomed to hearing.

“[Lee’s] family had helped to create the United States,” says
Wise, noting that Lee and George
Washington were related through their
marriages to Custis women. “In some
ways, Lee carried the mantle of George
Washington. On the other hand, he felt
he couldn’t lift-a hand against his own
people of Virginia.” When the war
ended, Lee subscribed to the Washingtonian ideal of a perfect union.
Said Wise, “When asked what an ex-Confederate should do, Lee said,
‘You should help to reunite your country.’ As the president of W&L, he
lived that every day. You can’t go to that school without having some
sense of who he was. Our museum needs to tell that story. Not to glo-
rify or to demonize, but to lift up the best in the country on all sides.”

Additionally, Wise says his legal education, especially his contact
with Professor Lash LaRue ’59, helped him conceive of the three-
sided framework. Each side believed it was fighting for the soul of the
nation, he says. Blacks wanted to stretch the concept of
equality in the Declaration of Independence.
Unionists wanted to preserve “the more perfect
Union” they thought had been created by the
Constitution. And Confederates wanted “to secure

: . 99
their liberties to themselves and their posterity,

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

he right to hold slaves, which

including ¢
they thought th
d to protect. No compromise was possi-

he visions of America were

e Constitution was sup-

pose
ble, because t

deeply at odds.

Wise has enlisted some high-powered
support for the museum, scheduled to open
in 2005. He’s pulled from public and private
sources, such as the Civil War Library and
Museum in Philadelphia, Ethyl Corp., the
Civil War Preservation ‘Trust, a private

collector and _ the

African-American
Museum of the Confederacy.

Alfred Broaddus ’61, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond and
new Itedegar board member, thinks the
Foundation could facilitate a turning point
in feelings about Civil War history. “The
legacy of the Civil War is still very much
with us,” says Broaddus. “We see that in our
society in many ways, and we certainly see
it in a city like Richmond. It’s important to
break through that.”

Why has it taken 136 years to reconcile
all three viewpoints? “People are getting to
the point where they don’t identify so much
with one side or the other,” says Wise, him-
self a descendant of Confederates. “They
just want to know what happened and why

it matters.

Victory in the High Court

 

David I. Bruck, this year’s Frances Lewis
Law Center Scholar-in-Residence, pre-
sented an argument before the

U.S. Supreme Court on Jan.
10, that resulted in the court
South

Carolina death sen-

Overturning a

tence for William A.
Kelly, who was con-
victed of murder in 1996.

In a 5-4 decision, the justices held
that the judge’s refusal to inform jurors
that the defendant would have no chance
of release if sentenced to life imprison-
ment without parole was unconstitutional.

Bruck, a death penalty specialist, said
the option of life without parole made a
“huge difference” in juries’ willingness to
bypass the death penalty.

 

    

- ewULS. District Court Judge. The Hon. William P. Johnson ’85

was sworn into the bench of the U.S. District Court, District of
New Mexico, on Jan. 3. He was nominated by President George
W. Bush in August. Previously, Johnson served as a judge for New
Mexico’s 5th Judicial Circuit in Roswell, N.M., and as a member
of the New Mexico Juvenile Justice Advisory Committee and
State Drug Enforcement Advisory Committee. Judge Johnson
hopes to include W&L graduates in his first group of law clerks.

FACULTY ABROAD ©

This past fall term three Law School faculty set out to the distant corners of the world on

scholarly pursuits.

Sally Wiant '75L enthusiastically reports on her work with
the faculty of the University of Melbourne, Australia, during
September and October. In November and December she moved
to the Monash Law School, also in Melbourne, for her primary
location. Wiant had a number of projects on tap, including prepa-
ration for a new course in international intellectual property law.
She also wrote a chapter for the Encyclopedia of Information
Science on the Uniform Computer Information Act (UCITA) and

met with the American Bar Association Task Force to work with

 

the National Commissioners of Uniform State Laws, the drafters of UCITA, to discuss

amending some of the statute’s problematic areas. In addition, she gave several lectures,

including a seminar at the University of Melbourne on fair use and the unauthorized sequel,
“The Wind Done Gone, to Gone with the Wind.”

Mark Crunewald was a visiting scholar at the Center for Labor
and Employment Law at the New York University School of Law.
His research focused on information privacy, particularly in the
workplace. “The World Trade Center attack not only was an extra-
ordinary part of my stay in New York, but it also affected the climate

for consideration of privacy issues,” he said. “The relative value of

 

 

Grunewald is spending spring term at the European University Institute in Florence Italy.

Blake Morant settled down as a visiting fellow at University
College, Oxford, England, to complete an article examining the
media’s alleged impact on the 2000 presidential elections. He’s
also co-authoring a contracts case book and knew he’d meet many
commercial law specialists who would provide an international
angle to his work. “I made contact with a number of really inter-
esting people, some who are considered the gurus of contract law,”
he said. Morant also delivered a paper, attended seminars and vis-
ited the University of Barcelona Law School. “Going away for sab-

batical gives you the chance to look at your work from a fresh per-

spective,” he said. “It also gives you a fresh perspective on what is so wonderfully unique

about W&L.” ¢

 

 

Mm A EG AZ i Mh EF

eee 4 kb oh:

privacy, I think, declined, and even the academic discourse on this
subject has taken on a different tone. In an odd way the attack

‘changed’ the perspective of the project I was working on.”

 

 

Washington and Lee seniors Jessica
Mentz and Megan Babst had modest
expectations for their basketball
careers when entering the University
in 1998. Certainly they didn’t envi-
sion that they would go on to become
two of the greatest women’s basket-
ball players in school history.

Having one 1,000-point scorer
every Six or seven years in a pro-
gram’s history is pretty good, but
before this season is over the
Generals could claim two in the
same front court. Mentz is W&L’s
all-time leading scorer with over
1,500 points, while Babst claims
nearly 1,100 career markers. The
duo also is battling each other for
the career rebounding record and
has combined to set 20 other W&L
marks.

_ Many star players would have
trouble sharing the ball, not to men-
tion the spotlight, with someone
playing virtually the same position.
However, these two young women
compliment each other like peanut
butter and jelly. “I feel like if there’s
a player that I connect to, it’s
Megan,” said the 5-foot-9 Mentz.
“We compliment each other so well.
Megan is a finesse player and I’m a
power player. We can really keep defenses off balance because we are
so different.”

Babst agreed that the contrasting styles of play have helped the
two become difficult to guard. “We play very well together,” said the 6-
foot-1 Babst. “I like to play facing the basket and Jessica likes to play
with her back to the basket. That helps to open things up. Most teams
have to deal with just one post player. [Our opponents] have to guard
two when playing us.”

Add to the equation that neither player was exactly a high-profile
recruit coming out of high school and the story becomes even more
interesting. Mentz, a native of Ellicott City, Md.,
wasn’t even a starter at Centennial High School.
Babst focused on several different sports at Fox
Chapel High School in Pittsburgh and played on a
basketball team loaded with several tall, talented
players Both had set goals for their collegiate careers,
but neither had envisioned the individual success
that would eventually follow.

“T looked at college as a chance to start all over

and prove myself as a player,” Mentz recalled. “I

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

Two Players

lwo for One

Common Codi

Megan Babst (left)
with Jessica Mentz,

team captain.

—— BY

Brian Laubscher

 

  

knew that I could be a better Player
than in high school; but J] never
thought I would have the suCCEss
that I’ve had.”

Babst also sought a new start
and wanted to see what she could do
when focused fully on basketball. 7
Just wanted to develop as a player,”
she said.

The two made immediate
impacts as freshmen, with Mentz
claiming the lion’s share of the acco-
lades. She scored 18 points and
grabbed 14 rebounds in her first co]-
legiate game and went on to average
15.1 points and 8.1 rebounds per
game. Following the season, she was
named the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Rookie of the Year and
Second ‘Team AII-ODAC. Babst
started a bit more slowly, but went on
to average 4.5 points, 5.7 rebounds
and 1.1 blocks per game. ‘Together,
they helped lead the Generals to a
school-record 13 wins, including the
program’s first-ever ODAC ‘Tourna-
ment win, a 61-49 victory over
Virginia Wesleyan

Both cited the tournament win
as the highlight of their careers to
date. For Babst, the year provided
insight into what she needed to
improve “My freshman year was pretty tough,” she recalled. “I was a
little intimidated and realized that I needed to get stronger and allow
basketball to be more of a focus in my life.” With hard work, she had a
breakout season as a sophomore, averaging 11.4 points, 9.6 rebounds
and 2.1 blocks per game as the Generals again claimed 13 victories.
Mentz went through a sophomore slump, but still averaged 13.4 points
and 8.6 rebounds per game. Both later earned Honorable Mention All-
ODAC honors.

By the 2000-01 season, opponents began to realize that the best
way to stop the Generals was to focus their attention on the post and
make the three players on the court beat them.
However, the dynamic duo also had stashed an ace
up their sleeves, an outside shot. Defenses collapsed
to take away the post game, but the two continued to
produce. Mentz scored a school-record 37 points in a
win over Eastern Mennonite and placed 21st nation-
ally with 20.7 points per game. She also added 10.1
rebounds per outing. Babst averaged 15.7 points and
ranked 18th nationally in rebounds (11.9 rpg) and
19th nationally in blocks (2.4 bpg).

 

Following the sea-
son, Mentz became the
first W&L women’s bas-
ketball player to earn
First Team All-ODAC
while Babst
again earned Honorable
All-ODAC

honors. However, the

honors,

Mention

Generals’ record slipped
to 8-16 and they missed
ODAC
‘Tournament for the first
time since the 1996-97

season “It was frustrat-

out on the

ing because the one
thing that we both want
more that anything is to

win,” said Mentz. “We

 

want to help produce
something tangible for the team.”

The duo is determined to post a winning season this year. “We’ve
been together for four years and I feel that we’ve done a lot for the pro-
eram, but I want something more to show for that,” said Babst.

This season, both are again putting up attention-getting numbers.
Mentz is again averaging over 20 points per game, and Babst is scoring
over 19 points per game. Both are still grabbing double-figures in

rebounds nearly every contest and Babst continues to block almost two
NEW LACRO

Washington and Lee athletic director Mike Walsh appointed Mike
Cerino as head men’s lacrosse coach. Cerino comes to W&L after serving
as the head boys lacrosse coach at The Charlotte Latin
School in North Carolina.

Ricky Matthews is the new assistant men’s
lacrosse coach. Matthews is a 2000 graduate of
Limestone College, where he played for Cerino. He
also served as an assistant coach at Limestone for the
2001 season.

Cerino coached at Charlotte Latin for one year fol-
lowing an 11-year run at Limestone College, where he
founded the men’s lacrosse program in 1990. He built up
the Saints’ program, posting an 80-55 overall record and
Winning the 2000 NCAA Division II National
Championship. In addition, he guided Limestone to
three Deep South Conference Championships and
coached 28 All-American players.

Twice Cerino earned the Jim “Ace” Adams National
Sportsmanship Award, and he was named Street & Smith’s College
Lacrosse USA's Division II Coach of the Year following the 2000 season.

ne ee eg

MIKE CERINO

 

 

shots every game. ‘The
records set by these two
may stand for some time,
but you'll never see
them gloat about the
marks. Both have their
eyes on the prize—
returning the Generals to
the ODAC ‘Tournament
and shooting for that elu-
sive 14th win or beyond.

“One day I'll look
back and be proud of
what I’ve done,” Mentz
said. “It just doesn’t
mean much to me right
now. I would much
rather have success as a

team than have all the

 

records.”

“Records are nice
accomplishments because people expect things of you,” added Babst.
“Those are nice to look back on, but it means so much more to accom-
plish things as a team. It’s not fun to play with someone who is all about
records and individual play. Years from now, the things that I will cher-
ish are the games where everyone played well and we won as a team.”

‘That memory might just happen before the 2001-02 season comes

to an end.

 

He also earned the Deep South Conference Coach of the Year award in

1994 and 1998.

Cerino has served on the NCAA Men’s
Lacrosse Championship Committee (1997-00), the
NCAA Men’s Lacrosse Rules Committee (1997-00),
the USILA Division II All-America Committee
(1994-00) and the USILA Division I Ranking
Committee (1993-00).

He holds a bachelor’s degree from Pfeiffer
University (1988) and a master’s degree from Gardner
Webb University (1996).

Matthews served as the Limestone’s offensive
coordinator and face-off unit coach, guiding the Saints’
offense, which ranked first in Division II in scoring.
He also helped Limestone to a runner-up finish in the
Division I National Championship.

Matthews also had a hand in _ leading
Limestone to the 2000 Division II National Championship as a player.

Active in the sport, Matthews played professional lacrosse with the
Ottawa Rebels of the National Lacrosse League. *

 

During his time on the Washington
and Lee football team, Jake Kimball
95 learned a number of lessons from his
coach, Gary Fallon. But Fallon’s final lesson
required no words. Fallon died less than two
months before Kimball’s graduation.

“When Coach Fallon died, the number
of guys who came back for his funeral blew
me away,” said Kimball. “It showed me
how important a job teaching and coaching
can be. What you do can have a lasting
impact on people.”

‘Today, Kimball is the head football
coach and a U.S. history teacher at Allen D.
Nease High School in the Jacksonville,
Fla., area. Last fall he was honored by the
Boselli Foundation, named for Jacksonville
Jaguars star lineman ‘Tony Boselli and his
wife, Angi, with the area’s Most Valuable
‘Teacher award. He was recognized before a
Jaguars game against the Cleveland
Browns at Alltel Stadium, and the award
included a $10,000 stipend for Kimball to
use for the football program and social
studies department at Nease.

“It’s a nice thing and it’s pretty neat that

they don’t just pay lip service to the award,”

said Kimball. “They do quite a bit in the area.”

Kimball’s success as a teacher and a
coach is not surprising to W&L athletic
director Mike Walsh.

“Jake Kimball epitomizes what small
liberal arts colleges are all about,” said
Walsh. “He came to W&L as an outstanding
student, a fine athlete and was service-
oriented. He made contributions in all three
areas at W&L. It’s no surprise that he’s
devoted his life to teaching.”

“When I got into teaching and coaching,
I didn’t want to sacrifice one area for the
other,” said Kimball. “I didn’t want to be a
coach who happened to teach or a teacher
who also happened to coach. I think you can
teach lessons in both arenas.

“At this stage, it’s important to teach
young people how to think and how to fig-
ure things out on their own,” said Kimball.
“History gives you a great forum to do that.
Not everything is black and white. You have
to form an opinion on why you believe
something and learn to back it up.”

The football field is also a learning
field. Nease finished just 3-7 last year
against a difficult schedule but ended

the year with a victory.

 

“Even in a 3-7 season you can learn
something, like how to battle through the
tough times,” said Kimball. “We had tol
drive 50 yards in the fourth quarter to wip
the last game. Our kids are a lot like those at
W&L. They’ve got a lot going for them, and
it’s good for them to face some adversity and
learn how to overcome it.”

Helping to teach those life lessons is
important to Kimball.

“That’s why I coach football,” Said
Kimball. “I don’t think there’s another sport
that stretches you as much or challenges you

as much.”
® D D Ss sg

It was a W&L connection that brought
Kimball to the Jacksonville area in the first
place. Prior to his senior year at Yucca
Valley (Calif.) High School, Kimball’s fam-
ily moved to the Philippines, where his
father heads the Bible College of the
Philippines and runs an_ orphanage.
Getting “home” over a college break was
no small task, so Kimball often stayed with

one of his best friends on the football team,

 

 

 

Own d

iL

)

oteD Sa nV i

ms

aa

 

Marc Newman, a 1991 graduate of Nease.
During SP

W&L he met some people at Nease and

a job opened up coaching foot-

ring break of his senior year at

that summer!
aching U.S. history. Ironically, the

been held by another W&L

ball and te
position had
graduate, Russell Crosby ’90.

E Kimball spent four years as an assistant
coach and then was named the head football
coach in January of 1999 at the age of just 26.
“That first year was just exciting, and I
poured everything into it,’ said Kimball.
“People had questions ‘Is this guy readyr’ I
had never been a coordinator, and all of my
assistants were older than me.”

But he brought other things to the table,
like discipline and consistency. “I was the
fifth head coach in five years at Nease. ‘The
kids were excited, it wasn’t some new guy
coming in. But at the time, I had no clue if
any of my ideas were going to work.”

At the midpoint of his first season,
Nease was only 1-4. “But we were playing
well,” said Kimball. “We wound up winning
four of the last five to finish at 5-5.”

The only big disappointment was a 17-12

loss to a strong Gainesville team. Nease had

End

rallied and was driving for the winning score
in the final minute when a player was stripped
of the ball. “We were six yards away from
going to the playoffs,” said Kimball.
Following that season, the county opened
up two new schools and Kimball lost about

half of his players and his entire coaching

‘You don’t know what I’m going through.”

Kimball has kept that door open in
part because of something he learned at
W&L. Midway through his senior year,
Kimball, a wide receiver, was seeing his
playing time taken away by a freshman

and the team was struggling at 1-4. So he

“T didn’t want to be a coach who happened to teach or a teacher who
also happened to coach. I think you can teach lessons in both arenas.”

staff. Now he’s begun the work of rebuild-
ing the program. His coaching staff includes
another W&L grad, Neil Kelleter ’97.

One of Kimball’s strengths is his ability
to relate to his players. “He’s real energetic,”
said Cory Niblock, a senior lineman at
Nease, who has been attracting the atten-
tion of some major Division I programs. “He
never really gets up in your face, but he
stays on top of you to make sure that you're
doing the little things right.”

“T’ve been a captain, I’ve been injured,
I’ve been on the bench, I’ve been the goat,
I’ve made plays,” said Kimball. “There’s

rarely a player who can come in and say

peo a ae

Lone

Bo re

did what any student struggling in a class
would do—he went to see the professor.
In this case, the professor was Fallon.

“T told him that I felt like I needed to
be in there and that he should give me
another shot,” said Kimball. Fallon did,
and W&L went on to win the final four
games of the season. Kimball caught
touchdown passes in two of those victo-
ries. More important, Kimball learned a
lesson about what a coach should be like.

Kimball also has a passion for the sport
that he can translate to his players.
“There’s nothing like a Friday night under
the lights with the band playing and the
stadium packed,” said Kimball.
“It’s kind of a buzz, and I still
get that game-day feeling.”

Fortunately, he’s found some-
one who shares that passion.
He was married on Aug. 4, three
days before Nease started pre-
season practice. His wife, LeAna,
is a good sport and even asked
him to take her to the SEC
Championship game for her
birthday present.

“You can’t beat that,” says
Kimball.

(Brian Logue is editor of Lacrosse

Magazine and lives in Baltimore.)

 

Jake Kimball wants to give
students and players the
tools to figure life’s tough
lessons out on their own.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

something Van Clief-Stefanon uses

AGL Ga

 

r writing.
NAME

to play the blues.

LGC LL

 
 

 

uu eS

O

ul

Vv

mead via @ N

V

M

Lyrae Van Chef-Stefanon 93,

a girl named “of lyric poetry,”

has grown into a strong woman

rian ne ORBLE

Laura Parsons

When poet Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon 93 was in high
school, she had a crush. Not so unusual for a teen-
ager, you might think. But the object of her affection
was Wuer Kai Xi, one of the student heroes of the
‘Tianenmen Square uprising. “He’d gone on a hunger
strike and appeared on news reports, defiant (and in
his pajamas, no less), arguing and pointing his finger
at Li Peng. I mean, I was about him the way teen-age
girls are now about Justin ‘limberlake.”

At the same time in 1988, the U.S. Supreme Court
had just handed down the Hazelwood decision limiting
the First Amendment rights of student publications.
Editor of her Deland, Fla., high school newspaper, 7/e
Growler, Van Clief-Stefanon recalls being hauled into
the principal’s office after she appeared on the front

page of the local paper claiming she would continue

 

to cover all stories she deemed relevant. Mirroring her
idol, she was defiant and determined to be heard.
And she still is. This fall, Van Clief-Stefanon won
the 2001 Cave Canem Poetry Prize, an award given to
the first book by an African-American poet who has
not yet been published by a commercial press.
Selected by Marilyn Nelson, Poet Laureate of
Connecticut and two-time National Book Award
finalist, Van Clief-Stefanon follows in the impressive
footsteps of 1999 winner Natasha ‘Irethewey, author
of Domestic Work, and 2000 winner Major Jackson,
author of Leaving Saturn. Perhaps more important
than the $500 cash prize, the Cave Canem brings pub-
lication by a well-known literary press; Van Clief-
Stefanon’s A Whistling Woman will be released this fall
by the University of Pittsburgh Press, retitled Black Swan.

 

“My experience at WerL

was amazingly difficult

but with a happy ending,”
and she adds,

“I’m twice as proud now to
bea WL graduate.”

Van Clief-Stefanon has been writing poems her
whole life. “The first poem for which I remember
receiving public recognition I wrote in elementary
school,” she recalls. “It was in response to a space shut-
tle launch. (“The water falling on the launch-pad/ the
countdown will begin/ the smoke will come out in a
minute/ and all delays will end....’) I remember it
because my teacher gave it to the school’s administra-
tion, and it was read over the intercom.”

Van Clief-Stefanon thinks there’s an element of
destiny at work in her evolution as a poet. After all,
Lyrae means “of lyric poetry” in Latin, although her
mother didn’t realize it. Van Clief-Stefanon points out,
“What is interesting is the idea of ‘the sight—being
able to look into the future and predict things, the idea
of fate. I don’t think it was an accident.”

Her infatuation with Wuer Kai Xi’s strength of char-
acter in the face of overwhelming odds could also be
seen as foreshadowing events to come. A gifted high
school student, Van Clief-Stefanon was heavily recruit-
ed by universities across the country, and Washington
and Lee was one that invited her to visit. As soon as she
set foot on campus, she says, she fell in love with the
place. She matriculated with the class of 1993 with her
eye on a journalism major.

‘Then the bottom fell out of her world. In January
of her freshman year, Van Clief-Stefanon was raped
by a fellow student. Looking back, she explains, “It
took me a long time to have access to the anger I felt.
I'd been raised in the church to turn the other cheek,

to immediately forgive.”

She combed the Bible in search of women’s stories,
looking for something, anything, to see her through her
crisis. She recalls thinking, “God, help me here—what
am I supposed to think?” Depressed and confused, Van
Clief-Stefanon’s grades slipped, and eventually she lost
her financial aid, forcing her to drop out of school.

But after a brief stint living with her sister, she
returned to Lexington, waiting tables at Harb’s restau-
rant, apprenticing with a pastry chef and taking sum-
mer classes at VMI, eyeing readmission to W&L and
graduation. “I love W&L,” she says. “That was where
I wanted to go. I was going to be in Lexington, and
they were just going to have to deal with me. All the
ideas I had about what a college should be, W&L was
that. I was going to be an old woman in Lexington, or
I was going to get my degree.”

Van Clief-Stefanon credits several members of the
faculty and administration with helping her regain
her confidence, strength and academic standing. She
recalls that over the seven years it took her to finish
her degree, Severn Duvall, English professor emeri-
tus, was “unwaveringly good to me.” David Howison,
dean of students, helped her gain readmittance.
Likewise, she remembers the support of track coach
John ‘Tucker: “The first thing I remember when I
think of John ‘Tucker is that at a time when I had a
hard time getting out of bed, John Tucker would say,
‘Well, we could run. Be at the track at 6 a.m.’ And if
I didn’t show, he would come get me—rebuilding self-
esteem was a big thing.” Van Clief-Stefanon still

holds the school’s 400-meter record, which she set at

 

Washin.g t o-n and

 

i.e ee oo Se

Mi ALG sh 2 ts

 

 

4 track and field invitational in March 1996.

But the most important person at W&L for Van
Clief-Stefanon was undoubtedly Anne Schroer-Lamont,
associate dean of students and counselor. “I honestly
believe she saved my life,” says Van Clief-Stefanon.
“She was just pretty much the example of what a strong
woman was and could be. ... She was so fiercely behind
me. I don’t think I would have believed I could have
made it if she hadn’t been so much behind me.”

Schroer-Lamont counseled Van Clief-Stefanon
throughout her time at W&L and recalls, “From that
assault came a strength. ... Lyrae was just so strong. She
has a soul that is so special.”

Schroer-Lamont notes Van Clief-Stefanon’s poems
were central to her progress. “She shared her poetry
with me all along. It was a wonderful way for her to get
at the pain,” says Schroer-Lamont. “Her creativity was
part of her expression of the recovery,” adding, “Each
[poem] was a gift that she gave to me.”

She frustrated some of her supporters from time to
time, as she sometimes seemed unfocused. Still, says
Howison, “I recognized in her an extraordinary talent
and determination. | remember listening to a poetry
reading and thinking, ‘Where did this come from?’ I
knew she was going to be a success.”

Professor Dabney Stuart, himself a renowned poet
and the S. Blount Mason Professor of English, remem-
bers Van-Clief Stefanon as a late-bloomer. “Her writing
took off her senior year,” he says. He sat on the jury of
the Academy of American Poets for the student prize

that year. Hers was one of 18 poems selected from

among 137 entries—“a hands-down first choice,” he

said. “I presented her the award with great admiration.”

Activism was also key to Van Clief-Stefanon’s
reclaiming her place at W&L. Prior to graduating in
1996, she worked with other women students to raise
awareness of sexual assault, producing instructional
programs about sexuality for the fraternities, putting
together an educational videotape and organizing a can-
delight vigil and “lake Back the Night” march. Like
her teen-age hero Wuer Kai Xi, she was defiant and
determined to have her voice heard.

During this period, she met her husband, Justin
Stefanon ’96, now a patent lawyer, and the two were
married in the Dell two days after graduation. ‘They
immediately headed to Penn State for graduate school,
where Van Clief-Stefanon earned her M.EA. in English
in 1999——“a track only a scattered few of our students
select,’ notes Stuart. While there, she also worked with
Susan K. Harris to co-edit a critical edition of Mark
‘Twain’s The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.

And always there has been her poetry. “I love poems,”
she says. “I have made a family of writers who love
poems, who know what I mean when I say that. We call
each other on the phone and say, “Let me read you this
Mary Oliver poem.’ ‘Then we say, “Uhat Mary Oliver...
she is smart and good.’ ‘Then we go and write.”

Reflecting on her own poems, Van Clief-Stefanon
says, “I have a definite love for form and for cadence

that I think comes from growing up Southern and in the

“T recognized in her

an extraordinary talent

and determination.

I knew she was going

to be a success.”

-— IDE AN: DAVID F-OW 1] SON

 

Washington and

fio WE Bit vee

Moe Ae G Aw Zoole Ne £

Pentecostal church, growing up on Shakespeare and
the King James.”

Such a rich mix of sources is evident in the Cave
Canem-winning A Whistling Woman, which includes
poems about mythological and Biblical women, among
them Leda, ‘Tamar, Daphne and the daughter and the
concubine in the book of Judges. In Van Clief-
Stefanon’s words, though, “They’re all Southern
women, and they speak like Southern women.”

Rod Smith, editor of the Washington and Lee liter-
ary journal Shenandoah (Van Clief-Stefanon’s “199 Lee
Street” appears in its Winter 2001 issue), says the
poems in A Whistling Woman “provide a bold, transgres-
sive, unflinching examination of the perils of sexuality.”

Although Van Clief-Stefanon admits, “Che book’s
political in that it’s about breaking silence, giving voice
to those who’ve been silenced,” she hopes its audience
will resist the urge to view it as autobiographical. “I
think I would be most pleasantly surprised if readers
saw this book as a cohesive work of art with its own life,
separate from mine.”

“T think of writing poems in somewhat architectur-
al terms,” she explains. “I am trying to ‘build some-
thing that will stand there,’ as one poet writes. You use
things from different sources, but you don’t look at a
house and say, “hose are the trees that used to be
wherever they were before they were cut for lumber.’
It’s a house. Whole. Its own thing.”

‘The Cave Canem Poetry Prize is just the latest
addition to Van Clief-Stefanon’s growing list of awards.
Among other recognitions, she’s twice been a semi-
finalist for the Discover/The Nation prize (which has
launched the careers of such notable poets as Lucille
Clifton, Marilyn Hacker and Mark Strand) and
received an Individual Artist Grant for Women from the
Money for Women/Barbara Deming Memorial Fund.
‘This past summer she was awarded the Fredrica
Clifton Memorial Scholarship (named for Lucille
Clifton’s late daughter) to attend the Squaw Valley
Community of Writers’ workshop. She recalls, “That
was a great honor, and it allowed me to workshop for a
week with Lucille Clifton, Galway Kinnell, Li-Young
Lee, Sharon Olds and Brenda Hillman. So it meant a
lot to me on many levels.”

With her book set to publish, Van Clief-Stefanon
says she’s ready to do something different, noting, “I
want to grow, experiment on some more levels.” She’s
currently at work on a new set of poems based on the
life of the deaf-mute astronomer John Goodricke,

whom she discovered on the Internet.

“He discovered the variable star beta Lyrae. He
died at 21 of pneumonia he caught while observing
another variable star, but his observational methods and
the ways he calculated the periodicity of brightness are
still in use today,” she explains. “I think that begs a
poem or two.”

Another project underway is a biography of Belle de
Costa Greene, the first head of the J. Pierpont Morgan
Library, who, although she was the daughter of the first
black graduate of Harvard, chose to live her glamorous
life passing as a white woman. Van Clief-Stefanon par-
ticularly enjoys the research involved in plumbing the
past. She laughs, “I love being in old documents—it’s
like reading other people’s mail.” So far, eight publish-
ing houses have expressed interest in obtaining rights
to Van Clief-Stefanon’s treatment of de Costa Greene.

‘Then there’s the novel she’s “got in the drawer”
and the new guitar she’s learning to play.

With all these writing irons in the fire, Van Clief-
Stefanon still maintains several day jobs, offering
poetry workshops through the Fairfax County Adult
Community Education program and_ teaching
English and social studies at the Girls Probation
House in Fairfax, Va., a court-supervised residential
treatment facility that offers adolescent girls an alter-
native to commitment. Calling the latter her “dream
job,” Van Clief-Stefanon says, “I feel as though Anne
Schroer-Lamont 1s what I want to be like. I want
to help make young girls’ lives better, the way she
made my life better.”

‘Thinking back to her days in Lexington, she says,
“My experience at W&L was amazingly difficult but
with a happy ending,” and she adds, “I’m twice as
proud now to be a W&L graduate.”

Perhaps destiny zs at work in Van Clief-Stefanon’s
life. ‘he girl named “of lyric poetry” has grown up to
be a celebrated poet, and the qualities she admired as
an adolescent in Wuer Kai Xi are the very ones she’s
needed to stand tall in the world. She has gone from
being editor of 74e Grow/er to winning the Cave
Canem (which in Latin means “beware of the dog”),
surely a good omen. Cave Canem’s emblem: the
mosaic in front of the ‘Tragic Poet’s House in
Pompeii—a fierce dog with the strength to break
free of its chain, defiant, determined to defend its
territory, fearlessly raising its voice.

(Laura Parsons is a free-lance writer who lives
in Charlottesville. She also is editor of B/ue
Ridge Outdoors.)

 

 

Washington and

Lert We BLU Om one

Ms ALS A 222. oN TE

 

 

 

Where the macraméed owl,

dirty-white, fuzzing from rain,

with darkly surprised wood-knob eyes,
must have hung on the porch

until its ropes rotted,

where toad-holes pocked

the front yard and I wrenched

the cool damp faucet, a metal flower,
drove the green hose deep

to flood them out,

I stripped bark from trees in fat bands
down to the meat, green

-rimmed like melon-rind

and ultra-white, new wounds

I licked to taste the bitter.

Where mosquito bites warned evening
and I marked their flat mounds

with fingernail x’s, crickets scratched out
their first sharp notes, lost

in the house where I learned the red rug
against my chest, my knees

my tongue, and the back room’s

stark patterned tile —

blue red blue white red blue —

and the scrape of the unplaned back door
and the sound of the tight fit

and the final hard clink of its frosted glass slats

disturbed, then shaken into place.

LYRAE VAN CLIEF-STEFANON

   

AH

EW Ss Ab TO! N i EE SIVERSITY RE TEW
HEN Git LEE. v V
TH Swe

    
    
   

: a
Volume Sl ens
WINTER 2001

 

with permission,
Shenandoah,
Winter 2001.

 

Washing ions an d Co Ce a

M A GA Zien ie

Snonnnenoneionineneonalfe

see

i
EO aoe
Le

ee
ae

3
_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photoshop is a wonderful comput-
er program. A talented graphics
person can take an ordinary
photograph, manipulate it, add
flourishes and transform a
scene. Which is exactly how it
was used by Washington and
Lee last spring to create a photo
showing how a cluster of modu-
lar buildings might look within
the walls of the “corral” parking
lot on heavily traveled Jefferson
and Washington streets.

‘The buildings were to be the
temporary home for the journal-
ism department during this year’s
renovation of Reid Hall, and the enhanced photograph showed how
architects planned to use shrubs and trees as camouflage.

“We had looked at options [about where to place the buildings].
‘This was the least expensive, and we thought it would be nice to
have faculty and students close to downtown,” said University
Architect ‘Tom Contos.

But the city of Lexington was not persuaded, even after two
attempts at computer enhancement of the landscaping. “They were
trailers, and they looked like trailers,” said Bill Blatter, city planner.
“We were concerned about the visual impact at the gateway to his-
toric downtown.”

As Blatter says, “The University came to realize [the idea] was
threatening to a lot of people.” W&L withdrew the proposal before
it came before Lexington’s Planning Commission for a vote and
relocated “Mod Hall” to the back campus near the School of Law.

In the end, says Contos, “We probably were wrong about the
location. ‘The new site is pleasant, it doesn’t bother anybody and we
will be able to use it for other things, even after Reid Hall is reno-

vated, perhaps as long as five years.”

THE LEXINGTON LIFESAVING CREW RELIES ON VOLUNTEERS
FROM W&L STUDENTS AND STAFF. AT THE OUTBREAK OF
WORLD WAR I, FORREST LETCHER, W&L TRACK COACH,
ORGANIZED AND RECRUITED AN AMBULANCE COMPANY OF
STUDENTS AND YOUNG MEN FROM THE TOWN AND COUNTY.

 

 
 

have argued, kissed, made up. [py
recent years, however, fewer dist
aa have been aireq iad
public. “Mod Hall” jg but one
recent example of a maturing
relationship in which open lines
of communication have enabled
the two competing sides to work

toward constructive solutions,
“It’s important to sound People
out, understand how people feel”
said Contos, who not so long
ago spent considerable time and
money building working models
of the University’s parking garage
and its lights to prove to citizens
that their neighborhoods wouldn’t glow like Shea Stadium once the
structure was built. “We can’t afford an adversarial relationship,”
W&L faculty and staff have served as mayors, members of the
City Council and the Planning Commission. They populate local
boards such as Hospice, Stonewall Jackson Hospital, Lime Kiln
Theater and the Historic Lexington Foundation. Students vol-
unteer in nursing homes and schools, and law students assist the
underprivileged with their legal practice clinics. The community
orchestra and choir perform in the Lenfest Center for Performing
Arts, and citizens often take seats beside students in classrooms
and play on University tennis courts. Faculty expertise is sought
by agencies such as the area water and sewer authority; student
consultants from the Williams School of Commerce, Economics
and Politics conduct community surveys. The Rockbridge Area
Recreation Organization, which organizes athletics primarily for
young people, was founded by an alumnus and utilizes student
coaches. W&L helped the local fire department buy a ladder
truck tall enough to reach University buildings; the ambulance
squad has rescued students from tangled

 

Lexington and Washington and Lee. For
richer, for poorer. In sickness and in health. An
act of the Virginia General Assembly created
Rockbridge County and a county seat “to be
called Lexington” in 1777. In 1782, Liberty Hall
Academy moved to Lexington from Timber
Ridge, forever more becoming part of the city’s
landscape, and from time to time, its scapegoat.

While the town is not unmindful of the eco-
nomic, academic and enriching cultural benefits
the University provides, and while the
University is acutely aware of critical services—
fire and rescue, for instance—that Lexington
provides for it, the two institutions have at times

behaved like partners in a rocky marriage. They

In the Public Eye
Former City Manager John

 

Doane found himself the center
of attention, as he was “tailed” by
eager journalism students looking
for a scoop. The students con-
fused Doane’s address with that
of Mayor Chuck Phillips and
wrote an article asking why the
city manager was having lunch
with the mayor’s wife so often.
Later, a group of aspiring reporters
performed a real public service
assisting The Roanoke Times in an
investigation of a former school
superintendent. ‘Today’s journal-
ism students frequently explore
town/gown issues in broadcast
and print classes.

automobiles. W&L alumni return to open
businesses in town, and the town serves
alumni during key University weekends.
The entities are woven as tightly as the pat-
terns in a Persian rug.

Yet there are changes afoot. As the school
replaces retiring faculty with young, ambitious
teachers, many with equally ambitious spouses
who cannot find work in town, fewer are living in
the community, chipping away at the foundation
of people power that has made Lexington tick
for centuries. The University has embarked on an
unprecedented physical plant expansion, and *
least one project, the proposed new art and music
complex that will require moving Lexington’s
1893 train station, holds the potential for
controversy. And last but not least, W&L

awaits the announcement of a new president,

 

Was hi « gts

 

 

 

ho may or may not have ties
W

Lexington. As David Howison,
to
n of students observes,

dea
s are very important.

“Personalitic
A single personality could change

the dynamics of everything.”

 

Lexington and Rockbridge

County are full of personalities:

artists, tradesmen, conserva-

liberals, churchgoers,

FORMER MAYOR BUDDY DERRICK
SPEAKS AT THE DEDICATION OF

to kill the suspect if Brocken-
brough died. The town called
for military troops. Ultimately,
order was restored and young
Brockenbrough recovered.
Earlier that same year, E.C.
Johnston, a former federal soldier,
had gone to the dam above the
frozen North River to skate. He
was an agent of the American
Missionary Association and had
come to town to teach freedmen;
because his work was unpopular,

he carried a pistol. A group of

tives, RENOVATED FRATERNITY HOUSES IN
agnostics, ‘intellectuals and 1991. WHILE THERE WERE TESTY
g MOMENTS AS A RESULT OF THE BOLD

those who never finished
school, millionaires and those
without running water in their
homes. And, of course, there
are students, W&L’s and VMI’s, about as different as can be. All
this would suggest a community in constant conflict. It isn’t so.

“It has been said that Rockbridge County is one of the few places
in the world where half the people have written a book and the
other half can’t read,” wrote Doug Harwood °74 in the book Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee: The University at 250 Years. Harwood is
editor of The Rockbridge Advocate, a monthly newspaper. Harwood
continues, “Because the place is so small and because it is, above
all else, polite, all of those people—for the most part—get along.”

This is confirmed by John Doane, former city manager and
current international consultant who has chosen Lexington as
home over all the other places he’s lived and worked. “I always
found an amazing degree of tolerance on both sides, also within
different groups. There’s not a great deal of social mixing, but
a live-and-let-live attitude,” he says.

Most importantly, perhaps, is this: “Lexington as a whole, 1s
very lenient and understanding of student behavior,” says former
Mayor Buddy Derrick. This is not to say there aren’t flashpoints.

Lexington in the 1800s was a frontier kind of town. Student duels,
fights and intoxication are mentioned in Board of ‘Trustee minutes
and recounted in Ollie Crenshaw’s book, General Lee’s College.

Douglas Southall Freeman’s four-volume history, Lees
Lieutenants, recounts at least two memorable incidents. On May 8,
1868, Francis H. Brockenbrough, a son of Judge John
Brockenbrough who founded the Lexington Law School, now the
W&L School of Law, was shot by an African-American youth near

the gate leading to his home. No one knows

FRATERNITY RENAISSANCE PLAN,
BOTH SIDES AGREE IT HAS BEEN
GOOD FOR LEXINGTON. DERRICK
WAS AWARDED AN HONORARY
DEGREE FROM W&L LAST SPRING.

 

Early Exchange

“town boys” and _ students
taunted him as he skated. As
the epithets got more insulting,
Johnston lost his cool. He caught
hold of one of the youngsters and threatened to shoot him if he
repeated the taunt. When he released the child, the group pelted
him with ice clods. Johnston took his complaint to the mayor, and it
reached the assistant military commissioner of the district.
Eventually, those investigating the incident went to Lee, who, upon
inquiring into the matter, found three students had been involved,
all of whom were persuaded to withdraw from the college.

In recent times, public complaints more commonly involve
noise, litter and parking. But occasionally, resentment of students
by full-time residents, or conflicting values between the two
groups, manifests in unfortunate ways.

During this academic year, there have been at least five
assaults on W&L students by individuals who are not students.
Arrests have been made in four. On Jan. 31, Matt Ringler ’03L,
was jumped as he left the Oasis bar, suffering broken facial bones.

Volunteerism, particularly in the last four years, has done much
to change student images as irresponsible party animals, allowing
citizens and students to interact in more positive ways. ‘he Nabors
Service League, founded in memory of Jonathan Nabors ’02 who
was killed in a horrific traffic accident as he returned from Christmas
break in 1999, has been successful in holding students to
community commitments. “We’ve seen a real change in attitude,”
says United Way Director Jeri Schaff. Burr Datz ’75, W&Ls
director of leadership development, also has witnessed an increase
in community outreach from Greek organizations, which recently
helped low-income residents winterize their homes. ‘This 1s

leadership at its best, Greek values at work.

 

What provoked the attack, but Brockenbrough
Was near death. Students organized a manhunt,
and when the assailant was found, they put a
fope around his neck and walked him up to
Courthouse square. Some spectators feared a
lynching, but Lee made the students turn the
man Over to authorities. However, rumors cir-
culated that students intended to storm the jail

The Fortnightly Club, which
celebrated its 100th anniversary in
2000, is the oldest town and gown
organization. Men representing
both university communities
and the town meet regularly
for intellectual exchange.

Unfortunately, stereotypes evolve because

there is an element of truth.

 

Fraternities, and now sororities, are as much
a part of W&Ls fabric as the University is of

Lexington’s, claiming more than 80 percent of

 

Wg sth we get 6 om and

 

the student body. Fraternity life began at W&L in
1855, but fraternity houses didn’t appear in town until
1920, according to Frank Parsons ’54, another Come
Cheer contributor. Housemothers ruled, requiring their
young charges to sit down for dinner at well-appointed
tables; butlers cleaned bathrooms and made student
beds. ‘Things went smoothly for years. As the school
also had a dress code, John Jennings ’56, professor of
journalism, recalls that students were perceived “as nice
young men in coats and ties.” Yet as the ’50s segued
into the ’60s, with its political unrest, students
became more unruly. More got cars, and new stereo
systems rocked formerly tranquil neighborhoods.

Lewis John ’58, professor of politics, was presi-
dent of the Interfraternity Council during his stu-
dent days. “The party scene caused the administra-
tion and faculty some concern,” he © said.
Relationships with neighbors deteriorated. Students
saw the administration as anti-fraternity trying to
“manage” their affairs. (Later, when John served as dean of students
and fraternities came to him with similar complaints, he had the
pleasure of saying, in essence, “Been there, done that.”) During
John’s senior year, boisterous behavior caused a local attorney
to write a letter of complaint to then-President Francis Pendleton
Gaines and the Associated Press. So embarrassed was the school,
that a faculty committee recommended a full-time position called
“University Proctor” to enforce campus regulations.

Charles Fletcher Murray, a 12-year veteran of the Lexington
police department, took the job. Parsons credits the hiring of
“Murph” as he affectionately came to be known, as a turning point

in town/gown relations. “I tried to keep the students out of

Points of View

 

Jason Dunn ’93, now pursuing an M.B.A. at Rice University in Houston, and his twin brother, Martin,
founded a group they hoped would bring W&L and VMI students together in a way to get to know
each other better and to spread goodwill by cooperating on community projects. ‘he Preston Society
was named for John T'L. Preston (1811-1890), a W&L eraduate and one of the founders of VMI.
‘The group was organized after a series of altercations between students of the two schools. “I wish

we had had another year in school so
that the organization would have gained
more momentum,” says Dunn today.
While the Preston Society is no more,
the Lexington Community Council
works to improve communication
among the three institutions, to antici-
pate problems before they occur, or to
deal with problems when they occur.
Members include the mayor, deans

from VMI and W&L, the police chief,

clergy, students and members of LDDA. Most recently, VMI had the Opportunity to learn from
W&L after the school’s unfortunate experience with a rock concert featuring String Cheese Incident.
‘The concert attracted hundreds from outside the community, resulting in arrests for drugs and disor-
derly conduct. One fan, not a student, died of an overdose in Roanoke after leaving the event.

 

 

Peet

RFORMING ART

 

THE LENFEST CENTER FOR PERFORMING ARTS PROVIDES A SPLENDID

MEETING GROUND FOR TOWN AND GOWN.

trouble,” Murph says, simply. “I treated them the way I wanted
to be treated. I knew all the policemen and they worked with me.
We got along well. He kept intoxicated students off the streets
and made them make reparations for pranks, like the time a fra-
ternity selected one citizen’s $800 evergreen for its Christmas
tree. “Every time I got a complaint, I’d take care of it. That
helped.” Cooperation between an enlarged University security
force under the direction of Mike Young and the Lexington
police force has continued. “We’ve got about the best relation-
ship we’ve ever had,” says Bruce Beard Jr., police chief.
Fraternity membership declined drastically in the late ’60s
and °70s, as it was “politically incorrect” to belong, and houses dete-
riorated as more students moved
off campus into Lexington
neighborhoods. In a cost-cutting
measure, the University removed
housemothers, leaving the hous-
es unsupervised. Newspaper
articles reported incidents such as
that involving Delta ‘Tau Delta,
which was suspended after
members trashed their house
prior to leaving for Christmas
break, kicking holes in walls,
breaking windows, tearing tiles
from ceilings and throwing
furniture out on the lawns.
Chuck Phillips, professor of
economics, served the city for 21
years, first on city council and
then as mayor. His administration
was responsible for the beautifi-
cation of downtown during the
70s and creation of the historic

 

 

district that
storybook
same time, |

was design

Historic [Landn

Lexington

industry—

fraternities V

student 1n a Til

Delta hous«

ron and Le«
$10 million p!
the 17 frate
strengthen the
To obtain Uni
ed renovation,
properties back to the school, and the houses
were then lea
porations. ‘I his

the fraternitie:

todial care in

were redesigne
ments—bunkers
to neighbors.

But before

parts of the

would be taki

acommunity vv

ly 7,000, of
potential for

issue. ‘he p

ternity houses

lay” of the \

that future altera

come unde1

THE PALMS
BENEFITS F

THE LOCAL

THE UNIVERS

TO HELP IN

COFFEE ROAST

SOMETIMES

STUDENTS

1

sives Lexington its

During this

& Ls front campus

ited

ris

sm.

a National

vark. Suddenly,

discovered a new

and the

 

re eyesores.

tragic death of a

it the Phi Gamma

spurred Washing-

to embark on a

ogram to reclaim

rnity houses and

iddition to other services. Houses

\nd housemothers were back.

nnexation, this became a huge

0sal called for including the fra-

‘L, master plan, which also meant

‘ity approval through conditional

First,

IN DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON

LEXINGTON PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
ROGER D. CLARK IS THE BANE OF STUDENT EXISTENCE.
A NEW UNIVERSITY PARKING GARAGE HAS EARNED HIGH
POINTS FROM CITY OFFICIALS FOR EASING PARKING IN
FRONT OF DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES.

- system with a set of “standards.”
ersity financing for much-need-

the fraternities deeded their
ed back to fraternity house cor-

providing maintenance and cus-

d with party rooms in _base-

                          

work began, the city battled
it meant the school
1g more properties off tax roles. In
ith a stagnant population (rough-

vhich 3,000 are students) and no

is part of the “institutional over-

tions would not be required to

ROM THE STUDENT ECONOMY.
VATERING HOLE WORKS WITH

ITY TO CHECK STUDENT IDS
THE SCHOOL’S BATTLE AGAINST
COHOL ABUSE. LEXINGTON
ING ON WASHINGTON STREET

RESEMBLES A W&L ANNEX AS

SIP

>

STUDY AND SOCIALIZE.

 

gave the University control of

 

Civic Duties

“Last year, funds were dedicated
to the development of a compre-
hensive Recreation Master Plan
for the county of Rockbridge and
the cities of Buena Vista and Lex-
ington. A vital component of the
data-gathering phase included a
request by the consultant firm for
a random survey of area residents.
A wonderful group of students,
the W&L Consulting Group, took
on the time-consuming and
painstaking task of conducting this
survey by phone. ... This group
provided our citizens with a
valuable contribution.”

—BILL KRAMER
Rockbridge Area
Recreation Organization
Sept. 17, 2001

ener screeners csensthnitton

use permits and other regulations.
‘The city also wanted to be able to
enforce noise ordinances and
other rules. President John Wilson
remembers getting so angry at a
meeting with city officials that he
walked out, threatening to pull the
plug on Fraternity Renaissance.
“Here was this project that had such
potential to improve the quality of
life in the city, and the Planning
Commission wouldn’t approve
the zoning,” he recalls. “I simply
said, ‘We’re not going forward.’ ”
Ultimately, the University got its way, but
with one major concession. It agreed to a grant
in lieu of taxes for the assessed taxable value of
the properties—amounting to more than
$100,000 per year. This arrangement continues
today and applies to additional properties the
University buys. “W&L didn’t have to do
that,” says Derrick. “It made all the difference

in the world to the city.” Another milestone.

 

Many credit Derrick, former owner of an
automobile dealership, with making a differ-
ence in town/gown relations. He went out of
his way to encourage discussion among repre-
sentatives from W&L, VMI and the city.
“We’re all in this together,” he would say.
W&Ls appreciation of his efforts was demon-
strated recently with the award of an honorary
degree. Yet Derrick’s term was peppered with

controversy. Struggling with ways to make up

  
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
   

VV

 

 

THROUGH
THE YEARS,
LEXINGTON
RESIDENTS
HAVE BEEN
RELATIVELY
TOLERANT
OF STUDENT
BEHAVIOR.

for Lexington’s dwindling tax base—60 percent of the property
within city boundaries is not taxable—he often turned his gaze up
the street. One tactic was a change in how water was billed. It used
to be that the rate went down as customers used more water. He
reversed the formula. W&L and VMI, the highest users, scram-
bled to fix leaky toilets and tighten dripping pipes.

In 1991, however, Derrick decided to enforce a previously
ignored regulation—property tax on student automobiles. The
city argued that students resided in the community for nine of
12 months of the year and benefited from services such as fire
and rescue and road maintenance. The city asked the
University to turn over the names of students with cars on
campus. W&L refused, saying the names were protected
under the Buckley Amendment. Students threatened to boy-
cott local businesses for a week, according to The News-Gazette,
“to remind the City of Lexington of the crucial role students

play in the city’s economy.”

Public Service

 

Delia Boone ’03, a member of the Nabors Service League,
works with the elderly in Lexington and mentors a 4th-
grade student who doesn’t understand the importance of
staying in school. “I started getting involved my freshman
year in college, because I was involved in community ser-
vice at home and really felt like college was a place where I
would have the time and the means to make a difference.
‘Through my work, I have learned a lot about the Lexington-
Rockbridge County area. Although the area isn’t very afflu-
ent, and there are a lot of severe problems, there are also a
lot of great programs that have been started and a lot of real-
ly wonderful people around the town who are fighting these
battles and making the area better day by day.”

 

John Falk ’86, ’90L, then president of the Student Bar
Association who, interestingly, bought his first car from Derrick,
wrote a paper with another student on the issue for a class on state
and local government. “It opened my eyes to the delicate balance
to what the town/gown relationship is about,” he recalls. “I realized
the tremendous impact not-for-profit institutions have on the tax
base of communities. I didn’t think the tax was being applied fairly,
but I understood the need. ‘The key lesson we learned is that it was
not so black and white.”

Eventually, the tax went away. Without W&Ls cooperation, it
was nearly impossible to administrate, and the city gave up.

Such public disagreements give some the perception of arro-
gance on the University’s part. “Some people think we’re arrogant.
‘The majority think we’re rich,” said Larry Broomall, vice president
for finance and W&L treasurer and former member of the
Lexington Downtown Development Association. “People resent
and sometimes believe—erroneously—that we carry a big stick. We
grovel more than most.” (VMI’s status as a state school gives it inde-
pendence from city purview.)

Broomall says W&L takes its corporate citizenship seriously. It
has made contributions to the hospital, which provides an important
service to students. It provides work-studies—students on financial
aid—to organizations like United Way. It encourages its employees
to give generously to agencies like United Way; in fact, close to half
of the United Way’s leadership gifts come from faculty and staff. A
study 12 years ago (none has been done recently) estimated the
school’s economic impact on the town at more than $25 million.

Rob Mish ’76, director of W&L alumni programs and a lifelong
Lexington resident, recalls how the University helped the area snag
the Virginia Horse Center and remembers how the Lenfest Center
opened its doors when a flood devastated Lime Kiln ‘Theater, allow-

ing the annual production of “Stonewall Country” to go on as planned.

 

Washington and

  

But W&L can’t be all things to all people, Broomall says.
“Our mission 1s to educate students.”

Some citizens think it’s not enough. ‘There is a perception in
the African-American community that W&L is buying up property

for student housing. It is not. Properties have been purchased by
0

landlords,
affordable housing for low-income citizens will disappear.

An article in The New York Times on June 17,1990, reported that “an

and they do rent to students. But there is a fear that

‘nflux of students from Washington and Lee University into low-

income neighborhoods is creating friction with black residents, who

charge th
families can no longer afford to live there.” ‘Uhe local chapter of the

at the movement has driven up rents to a point where some

NAACP asked the college to open its dormitories to residents who can’t
afford to live elsewhere in Lexington, not a very practical solution.

The city has received federal grants to pay for housing rehabili-
ration in these neighborhoods, and in fact, students and faculty at
W&L and VMI have built houses through Habitat for Humanity.

LaVert Taylor, pastor of First Baptist Church and a city coun-
cil member says, “I would like to see W&L take an active role in
the economic development as it relates to the African-American
community. | would like to see it work with residents to form a
housing corporation. ‘Then, when a property came up for sale,
the corporation could buy it and rent it and keep the
resources in the community. The revenue could be used for
senior citizen housing or daycare.” Yet ‘Taylor admits he’s never
approached anyone at the school to discuss such a plan.

Architect Contos is aware of what happens when the University
takes houses out of circulation, as happened most recently with the
purchase and demolition of Sally and Larry Mann’s house for the
art and music building. “When we take away houses, we take away
the ability to house people, particularly low income people,” he
says. The good news for the city is that, once the art and music
building is constructed near the Lenfest Center, W&L probably is
finished growing in that direction.

Several years ago, Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, took the
unusual step of earmarking funds for an “Oberlin Partnership” to work
with town leaders to resolve pressing issues such as a 25 percent poverty
rate and dismal standardized school test scores. It was a question
of self-preservation, according to Oberlin magazine. “Unresolved,
a town problems can quickly become college problems,” it said.

Lexington isn’t Oberlin. “I guess if we saw something like

that happening, we’d get more involved,” says Broomall.

 

| Many University projects have been positive for the commu-
= The Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts, for instance.
Current Mayor John Knapp, a former VMI superintendent, adds,

The parking garage has had a noticeable affect in town. That has
Efeved some pressures. It was a well-thought-out project.” ‘The
“decision hot to put a student post office in the new John W. Elrod
U Niversity Commons will assure the Lexington Post Office’s place

as :
a focal point for town/gown relations.

With Frank Parsons, now retired, setting the tenor during his
years as coordinator of facilities planning, the University’s master
planning process with the town began to mature. “Frank never felt
the University should duck responsibility to the city,” says Phillips.

“There has been a high level of cooperation. It has worked,”
says Planner Blatter. We encourage the University to come to the
city as early as possible and solicit input before it goes up for a vote.
‘The key is the way it works. Plans have been adapted. It’s a better
product in the end.”

Says Knapp, “Preventing surprises is important.”

‘There will continue to be areas of concern. One is W&L expan-
sion into areas occupied by private enterprise. A recent example is
the placement of student newspapers in an office building at the
corner of Washington and Jefferson streets until construction of the
Commons is complete, something one former city councilman calls
“unconscionable.” ‘The art and music building, both sides agree,
will be a “challenge.”

‘There are some who will turn every issue into a town/gown con-
troversy. The reality is the importance each institution is to the
other. “As W&L has grown, so has Lexington. Education is
Lexington’s industry,” says Mish.

Notes Blatter, “W&L is such a vital component of the economy.
It’s part of the physical fabric of the town, part of the charm.”

Yet as with any committed couple, it’s helpful, from time to

time, to renew the vows. &

Significant Markers
in the Town-Gown Relationship

 

87>) W&L residence hall construction and the creation of an
“institutional overlay” to the University’s master plan.

Ce ee ee ee a ee

8F> Hiring of “Murph” as the first “proctor,” providing an
interface with Lexington police concerning issues of
student behavior.

ee ee

‘8Y> Fraternity Renaissance and an agreement that the University
would make a grant to the city in lieu of taxes for the
assessed value of property being taken off tax rolls.

cee eee ee ee we eee eh eh Oh Ow hh eh eh he eh Oe OO oO hh HO ee ee eee ee ee eT eee eee eH Hee eh ee eee eee e

8F>'The opening of the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts,
a community and University resource.

cee eee ee we ewe eee eh hh hh Oh he hh Oh OH oO he ee He eH he ee Hee eee HF eee ee ee ee eo HH eee eee ee Hee

97> A new approach to the process of gaining approval
for University projects from the city by seeking input early
in the planning.

ee ee ee ee

8¥> Construction of a parking garage to ease parking problems
downtown.

Ce ee ee

99> Nabors Service League.

 

 

Washington a.m &

i: waa

Mout. G A ge, 1 me E

~e NEM LS 6 O £ OH d

BO aN WU Oh 2

SETA VE 2 ¥

AmA PAV OCI EVD ON ta

 

 

 

 

O

 

ait 2a

I

Sai

 
  
  
 
    

Jimmy Moses ’7I
learns the delicate art

of negotiating a dream.

Py MALE |e rare es "9S

Jimmy Moses ’71 was 35,000 feet above the Continental Divide when he began to sketch his vision of a

revitalized Little Rock, Ark. * It was 1981, and Moses was returning to his native Little Rock from a trip

to Seattle, where the communal yet urban feel of the Pacific Northwest’s Emerald City had inspired him.

Seattle’s Pike’s Place Market particularly impressed Moses. ‘This
was urban utopia, he thought. People walking, shopping, buying
fresh produce, swapping stories over a cup of coffee.

Somewhere over Colorado, Moses’ mind began to race and he
started scribbling ideas on a cocktail napkin. Why not develop a
permanent farmer’s market along the Arkansas River? ‘The mar-
ket would generate foot traffic, he reasoned, which, in turn, would
drive other businesses downtown. As he feverishly wrote, adding
one idea to another, Moses envisioned the urban environment he
remembered as a youth, one where people shopped and lived and
socialized; one without suburban eyesores such as

Strip malls that drew people away from the down-

 

town, while simultaneously sapping the vibrancy
of the city itself.

The fact that Jimmy Moses saw potential com-
monality between Seattle, Wash., and Little Rock,
Ark., speaks as much to his vision as it does to his
background as the grandson of a Jewish entrepre-
neur who found a backwater Southern town to be
the land of opportunity.

Alfred Moses opened Moses’ Melody Shop, a
Wo-story electronics and music store that became

a } i
touchstone in the community. Along with

Moses says he was
naive to think that
he could change
decades of
intransigence with
colorful drawings

and bright ideas.

2 @&@a@aen &@ @ &

Woolworth’s and Walgreen’s and various mom-and-pop retail out-
lets that lined the commercial corridor of Main Street, the Melody
Shop attracted not only Little Rock shoppers, but rural residents,
as well, enticing people downtown for daylong sojourns that may
have begun with a soda at Breyer’s and ended with a concert at the
Robinson Auditorium. Jimmy Moses remembers working the
counter at the Melody Shop, first for his grandfather, Alfred, then
for his father, Albert. Yet when he returned to Little Rock in 1971
after graduating from W&L, the town of his youth had become
something different. His hometown seemed hollow, stagnant.

Moses helped his father run the family busi-
ness, but his heart was in another place. He
signed on with Little Rock Unlimited Progress, a
fledgling civic organization dedicated to refur-
bishing and revitalizing downtown Little Rock,
and soon spearheaded a $4.5-million effort to cre-
ate a pedestrian mall—a bricked-over road filled
with benches and trees and ringed by retail shops
in the middle of Main Street.

Metrocentre Mall was a colossal flop, the first
in a string of failures for the dogged Moses. Just
years after its debut, the pedestrian mall was razed,

brick streets torn up, stores shuttered. Frustrated

 

 

Washington and

ese BA SOU Mm 1

Mik @ ASZl f NM £

by the failure and despondent over the Melody Shop’s expansion
into suburban chain stores, Moses left the family business, packed
his bags and set off for Gainesville, Fla., to seek a degree in urban
planning at the University of Florida.

“I met with a lot of naysayers [during the Metrocentre deba-
cle and afterward],” Moses says, “and I realized I needed an edu-
cation in urban planning. It was a complicated decision leaving
the family business, but I think it spoke to my greater ambition,
the spark that continues to drive me today.”

He returned to Little Rock with his degree, joined a local
development firm and drew up plan after plan to revive old down-
town buildings and build new entertainment complexes. It was
about this time that Moses ventured West and returned with a
scheme to construct a cultural center anchored by a farmer’s mar-
ket at one end and a sports complex at the other. Again, Moses’
efforts seemed to fail.

Moses says he was naive to think that he could change
decades of intransigence with colorful drawings and bright ideas.
“I was operating in a large political arena, and I didn’t realize it.”
he says. He began to learn how to plan a city by committee, work-
ing back rooms, while speaking the arcane language of city ordi-
nances and land-use legalese. His key moment came in 1992
when a referendum came before Little Rock voters that would
have initiated a 10-year plan to build a major cultural district in
downtown Little Rock. More than 50,000 people cast their ballots
in the largest single referendum in Arkansas history, and the
measure, again, went down in ignominious defeat.

Yet after the defeat of the referendum, a funny thing hap-
pened. There was a call for a community-wide goal-setting
process, “that brought all walks of life to the table.” The question
Moses and other civic leaders asked at the outset was: If not the
referendum’s plan, then what?

Over the course of 18 months, during which numerous meet-
ings and community forums were held, three major needs were
identified for the LR area: improving public safety, reforming
education and establishing a cultural center in the downtown area.

During this process, Moses says people who had been silent
before became involved, and as more and more
people felt their voices were being heard, support
began to build. “Two other W&L alumni played
key roles as well. Rhett Tucker ’72, who then was
chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, (W&L

Alumm Magazine, Fall 1999) and Drew Kumpuris collective idea, and

‘71 (WEL Alumni Magazine, Spring 2000, and this

issue p. 36), a surgeon and then-city council mem-

this collective idea

ber, were very influential in supporting this grass-
roots oriented vision. The lightbulb went on for
Moses. “Individual thoughts merged to form a col-
lective idea, and this collective idea became a

community vision. That’s when we succeeded.”

“a @ @ 2 @ @ BB
“Individual thoughts

merged to form a

became a community
vision. That’s when

we suce

a @ 2 ¢@ 6 @ @ B@

 

Ever the optimist, Moses says the effort “galvanized the com-
munity, set the Downtown Partnership (the successor to Little
Rock Unlimited Progress) into a goal-setting process,” and led to
a $4-million project funded through a bond issue and private
donations to construct the River Market. Moses’ dream of a thriy-
ing cultural destination located in the heart of Little Rock had
become a reality and anchoring the complex is a farmer’s market,
“the heart and soul of River Market,” Moses says.

Since River Market opened in 1996, Moses has been the
toast of his hometown. Glowing profiles of the Arkansas busj-
nessman have appeared in numerous statewide newspapers,
though he seems to take the praise in stride. He laughs at a
paragraph in an Arkansas Democrat-Gazette story that suggests his
early failure as a developer was due to “his own stubborn refusal
to assimilate,” and cites his matriculation at Washington and
Lee and not the University of Arkansas as an example, “Quite
frankly, I think being away from Arkansas and experiencing a
small town on the Eastern seaboard gave me a point of refer-
ence,” Moses says. Despite his success, Moses is far from com-
placent. His new firm, Moses ‘Tucker Real Estate, is busy
developing mixed-use buildings that will feature loft-style
apartments above retail shops. Luring residents back down-
town is Moses’ most recent project, and he sees it as one of the
city’s greatest challenges: Can he bring the middle-class back to
downtown, not just to be entertained, but to live?

Moses’ social conscience permeates his thinking in many
ways. He’s drawn to documentaries and books such as Upton
Sinclair’s The Jungle, and he realizes that in order for Little Rock to
be considered a truly great and welcoming mid-sized city, it will
need more than riverside entertainment and a downtown sports
complex. He says that if he could change one thing about Little
Rock, it would be its lack of ethnic diversity. “Cities that create a
truly special environment should attract a wide range of individuals
to a similarly wide range of neighborhoods,” Moses says. Some of
his favorite American cities—Seattle, New York, Chicago,
Boston—thrive on diversity, and if Little Rock can embrace a cul-
tural hub that emulates bits and pieces of its larger urban
brethren, who’s to say the city can’t reach out
and attract people of various ethnicities in much
the same way a small Southern town reached
out to Alfred Moses more than 70 years ago.

“By growing the city, we’re starting to bring
in more companies, and with more companies
come more people,” Moses says. He’s shown
that he is more than capable of affecting
change in Little Rock. It’s just a manner of
dreaming large and wedding ideas with
community activism. Somewhere Jimmy

FT

: Moses may be reaching for a pen, a cocktail

Se

eedec

napkin and a telephone.

 

Washington and

Tick: TEE MGUY Binal + ae de & A

 

_oo. REP. JOE WILSON
oe

me 1927.4”
Dr. Alexander S. Moffett
is the proud father of a college pro-
fessor, now retired from Grinnell
College. Moffett lives in Grinnell,
lowa.

<O—_ 1937 —-_S»
Ceorge W. Lowry
is still kicking, though not very
high. He lives in Clinton, Okla.

The Hon. Thomas A.
Williams Jr. ("39L)

and his wife, Dorothy, celebrated
their 60th wedding anniversary on
Feb. 22, 2001. The couple has
been living in Virginia Beach since
last August. He plays golf two or
three times a week and enjoys life.

“9-— 1939 —©>
The Hon. Warren H.
Edwards ("41L)
has had a great year without any
Major surgery. He is going on 86
and looks forward to another trip to

Lexington some time this year. He
lives in Bonifay, Fla.

_ '9.4)4.2-C>»
Edward H. Trice Jr.
iS sorry he couldn’t make the 60th

ee He lives in Vero Beach,
“la.

—— 1944 ~—o-
Dr. G. Edward Calvert
mcelved the 2001 Barney Award,
the Lynchburg Academy of

 

ie

Medicine’s highest honor. Calvert
began practicing in Lynchburg in
1952 and retired in1985.

“a 5 eG

Dr. John S. Chapman

enjoys retirement and his 17 grand-
children. He hopes to see some of
the 2002 Olympics, as two of his
daughters and five of the grandchil-
dren live in the Salt Lake City area.
He lives in Dubuque, Iowa.

Oliver M. Mendell

retired after 44 years with J.P.
Morgan-Chase. He continues to
remain active with a number of
not-for-profits, such as chairing the
U.S.O. of metropolitan New York
and serving on some civic boards.
He has signed up with the Alumni
Special Programs to travel to
Argentina and Chile. He lives in
New York City.

SD... 4 OSS... >

Dr. Henry A. Turner

will retire from the Yale University
faculty at the end of the current
academic year after teaching for 44
years in the department of history.

SO 9 ORS qe?

Anthony F. Cerike (’62L )
is in law practice with his son, Paul
°86, in Medford N.J. He has no
plans to retire.

Dans PBS er

Dr. Alfred J. Magoline Jr.
retired from active medical prac-

fy et ee

Spence.

 

Joe Wilson

"69

Capitol Hilt

that seat on April 23.

tice on Aug. 1, 2001. He plans to
play more golf and spend more
time in Florida this winter.

PAE SEG

Paul R. Plawin

has launched a fun and entertain-
ment Web site that also is a mar-
keting platform for his newsletters
and other editorial products.
Check it out at www.honorelvis
.com. He lives in Gainesville, Va.

Howard C. Wolf Jr.
and his wife, Susan, have relocated

to Aiken, S.C.

Ce et EOS ee

John B. Boatner

composed a Sonata for Organ in
1969. Since then, his work was per-
formed in New York City,
Memphis, ‘Tenn., and in ‘Traverse
City, Mich. ‘The concert organist,
Carson Cooman, performed the
piece in Prague, Czech Republic,
and Varna, Bulgaria, during his
European concert tour. Boatner
lives in Memphis.

Ji» 4964 ——_S>

Dr. Peter S. Trager

was elected chairman of ‘The
Council of Insurance and
Members Retirement Programs of
‘The American Dental Association.
He continues to serve on the
Georgia Board of Dentistry and
practices general dentistry in
Marietta, Ga.

New Kid on the Block

Joe Wilson 69, of W. Columbia, S.C., becomes the latest to add his name
to a distinguished list of alumni who have served as United States sena-
tors or congressmen. Wilson won a congressional seat in a special election
Dec. 18, filling the post left vacant by the death of U.S. Rep. Floyd

Wilson, a Republican, took the oath of office in Washington the next
day. He earned 73 percent of the votes in the GOP-dominated second dis-
trict, which stretches from Midlands to the Georgia/South Carolina bor-
der. Previously, he was a state senator in South Carolina and head of the

Senate ‘Iransportation Committee; a special election will be held to fill

Rex H. Wooldridge

and his wife, Lisa, live in Houston.
‘Their daughter, Christi 97, is pur-
suing a master’s in business at Rice
University, while daughter, Maggie
98, will complete her master’s
degree in architecture at the Uni-
versity of ‘Texas in May 2002.

o—_ {| 965.—C>

T. Patton Adams IV

was selected by ‘Thomas E. White,
secretary of the United States
Army, to serve a lifetime appoint-
ment as his civilian aide emeritus.
His responsibilities will include
serving as an advisor to the secre-
tary of the army, the chief of staff of
the army and senior army com-
manders whose areas of responsi-
bility involve South Carolina. He
primarily advises those leaders on
how the civilian community per-
ceives the army and its current
activities. He also serves as a
spokesperson to the civilian com-
munity regarding Army missions,
programs and objectives. Adams
lives in Columbia, S.C.

Dr. Jolyon P. Cirard

is the chair of the history and polit-
ical science department at Cabrini
College in Radnor, Pa.

J. Lindsay Short Jr. ('67L)
is the incoming president of the
American Academy of Matri-
monial Lawyers. He lives in
Houston.

 

W a

 

 

 

 

Harry B. Burt Jr. ’21 (looking into the camera) obtained the first patent for ice cream on a stick in 1923.

The 1926 photo, taken at the Good Humor Ice Cream manufacturing plant in Miami, recently was dis-

covered by his son, Harry Burt II, along with a 1920 issue of the Calyx. In this photo, vanilla ice cream was

drawn from the freezer and poured into trays into which Good Humor sticks were inserted. ‘The ice cream

bars were hardened in a cold room then dipped in chocolate. Thank you, Mr. Burt!

“D—__- 1 96 6 ——__ <>

Charles N. Bensinger Jr.
enjoyed a minireunion with sever-
al of his ZBT pledge brothers in
September at the Greenbriar.
Attending were Harry Dennery,
Dave Abrams, Les Grandis and
Richard Margolies. He says more
had planned to attend, but the
events of Sept. 11 changed the sit-
uation. All had a grand time, even
though there were lots of errant
shots on the golf course. Bensinger
lives in Louisville, Ky.

co | OB 7 Cc»

Jeffrey B. Gayner

was elected chairman of
Americans for Sovereignty, a
Washington-based lobbying orga-
nization.

Dr. Robert L. Holt
welcomed his first grandchild,
William, on March 16, 2001. He
presented an all-day lecture and
surgery demonstration to the
Bavarian Academy of Dentistry in
Munich, Germany, last June. He
lives in West Palm Beach, Fla.

O._ 1 968 —_—>

Moulton S. Dowler Jr.
became a shareholder at Langley
& Banack Inc. He lives in San
Antonio.

ee OP: Se

Dr. Andrew C. Kumpuris

was named a_ Robert Wood
Johnson Health Policy Fellow for
2001-02 by the Institute of
Medicine. As a fellow, he will com-
plete a wide range of activities
designed to enrich his knowledge
of the public policy process and
foster a better understanding of
how government health and bio-
medical research activities relate to
the mission of their home institu-
tions and local communities. After
a period of orientation, each fellow
will work in congressional and
executive branch offices with key
responsibilities for health legisla-
tion and programs. He lives in

Little Rock, Ark.

co 1 973 —— <>
Lt. Col. Nicholas P. Crant
is transitioning from the U.S. Army
after more than 28 years. His final
assignment is a posting as a
brigadier general on the Army staff

at the Pentagon. He lives in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Philip B. Spivey

left his law practice to take a posi-
tion as Juvenile Court judge for the
Ocmulgee Judicial Circuit in
Georgia.

O- 1 974 —_— <>

Scott Ainslie

a blues singer, guitarist and presi-
dent of Cattail Music in Durham,
N.C., was invited to perform a new
song, “We Shall Rise,” at
Gettysburg National Cemetery in
Gettysburg, Pa., during the 138th
commemoration of  Lincoln’s
address on Nov. 19. The song,
written by Dave Stancliff, was a
response to the tragedies of Sept.
11. Proceeds from the song are
being sent to the fund for the fam-
ilies of lost firefighters.

Keith J. Silverman
teaches language arts at Wellspring
Academy in South Boston, Va.

O— 1976 —o

David W. Denny
was named president of the
Society for Marketing Professional

 

Services (SMPS) Virginia Chapter
Denny IS a Senior project mana a
with ‘Thompson & Litton, This jg
his second term as head of this
state organization, whose members
include marketing Professionals
and principals from architectural
engineering, planning, interior
design, construction, real estate
and specialty consulting firms. He
lives in Blacksburg, Va.

O_ 1977 ae

Clayton W. Preston

and his design firm received the
World Habitat Award. The global
competition identifies Projects that
demonstrate practical and imagina-
tive solutions to housing problems
related to diminishing energy
resources, diversity of housing
choices, employment and a sus-
tainable future. He lives in Atlanta,

Lt. Col. Angelo B.
Santella

finished a six-month stint In
Kosovo and is now stationed with

the Army in Izmir, ‘Turkey, work-
ing at NATO headquarters.

“O__ 1978 — oa

Jeffrey L. Seglin

is a business ethics columnist with
the Sunday New York Times and
Fortune magazine. He is also pro-
fessor at Emerson College in
Boston, where he lives.

CO 1979 — eee

Dr. John S. Hyslop Ill
works at the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission as a risk
and reliability engineer. He and his
wife, Margie, live in Gaithersburg,
Md. Hyslop exercises regularly
and enjoys bowling.

oO 1983) ae

C. Penn Owen III

was elected chairman of the board
of trustees of Memphis College of
Art for a period of two years. Owen
is a native of ‘Tunica, Miss., where
he is a partner in his family’s agti-
cultural business involved in the
production of cotton, rice and soy-
beans. Owen is also president of
ROA Inc., an advertising firm. He
lives in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Capt. John K. Schmidt

was just promoted to his current
rank in the U.S. Navy. He and his
wife, Mary, are now stationed in
the Hampton Roads area 1
Virginia.

 

 

W a

Ss

h

 

 

 

oO 1983—<>
john E. Buttarazzi a
as named senior managing direc-
. of the public/private services
rap of Grubb & Ellis Co. in
New York. Grubb & Ellis is a busi-
ness advisory firm with global
expertise in real estate.

pavid T. Hayslette
joined The Pinehurst Co. in 2000

as senior vice president of people
strategy. The Pinehurst Co. is the
owner and operator of major golf
resort destinations including Pine-
hurst, Homestead, Barton Creek
and Daufuskie Island. Hayslette
lives in Pinehurst, N.C., together
with his wife, Sarah, and sons,
Jarrod, 12, and Peyton, 10.

Andrew M. Taylor

was accepted into the Buckhead
Coalition, a nonprofit civic organi-
zation with the mission of nurtur-
ing the quality of life of the north-
ern section of Atlanta. ‘laylor is the
president of ‘Iaylor & Mathis.

OO 1984—<&>
James C. Clark
lost his brother, “Tommy, in the
World ‘Trade Center terrorist
attack. He lives in Short Hills, N.J.

Herbert O. Funsten lil

was named director of the Center
for Space Science and Exploration
at Los Alamos National Labora-
tory. The CSSE was formed in
1999 under the nonproliferation
and international security division
to enhance the civilian space
efforts across the laboratory.

Powell M. Leitch III (’87L)
is the chair of his class’s 15th
reunion. He is employed with
F lippin, Densmore, Morse & Jesse
in Roanoke.

C. David Schroeder

left a telecom Start-up company
based in Dallas, where he served
as the controller and director of
human resources, and purchased a
small business in ‘Telluride, Colo.
He will be moving there with his
Wife, Lisa, his son, Christopher, 6,
and his daughter, Cameron, 3.

Matthew c. Thompson Jr.
Was promoted to senior managing
rector at Scott and Stringfellow, a
ichmond-based securities firm.
His father, Matthew 64, is a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees.

See you

fe OS ee ee ee a

 

in Lexington!

Reunion 2002

May 2-4

Washington and Lee has planned a special reunion for alumni of all ages. Join old friends and

meet new ones. See W&L today and learn of the University’s future plans. May 2 - 4 is going to

be a great weekend!

For More Information
Contact the Alumni office at Reunions@
wlu.edu or 540-463-8464.

Weekend Kick-Off

Lamar J. R. Cecil Jr., emeritus professor of his-
tory, will open the weekend with a special
address. Cecil, whose teaching career spanned
three decades, will enlighten us about the yes-
terdays, todays and tomorrows of W&L and

the world that surrounds us.

Weekend Highlights:

> “60 Minutes with the President,” during
which acting President Larry Boetsch
will provide an opportunity for you to
ask questions about W&L.

> David Partlett, dean of the School of
Law, will address law alumni.

> Reunion Seminar: “The Reputation of
Lawyers: Images of Law in Popular
Culture,” approved for 2 hours of Con-
tinuing Legal Education Credit.

> Reunion Seminar: “America in the Age
of ‘lerrorism.”

> Hike up House Mountain sponsored by
the Outing Club.

> “Reunion 2002: Alumni Celebration!”
on the Front Lawn, with musical enter-
tainment provided by those with person-
al ties to our alma mater.

> A full schedule of barbecues and ban-

quets.

Make Reservations by April 1

All local hotels have been block-reserved.
Classes will be assigned to the various hotels
with every effort made to place class mem-
bers together. We ask that each alumnus/a
make his/her own reservation with us. We will
not be able to accommodate requests for
group reservations. A credit card guarantee is

required. ‘he demand for hotel rooms will be

 

great, so we urge all reunionists to register as
early as possible. Reservation requests post-
marked after the Apri/ 1 deadline cannot be
guaranteed a room. Designated class hotels

may fill before the registration deadline.

Early-Bird Discount

Receive a $50 savings per person on the
reunion fee if your registration is postmarked
by April 1. The cost of your hotel accommo-

dations is not included in the reunion fee.

Cancellations

You may receive a full refund, less a $20.
Registration fee, if you cancel on or before
Wednesday, April 17. Cancellations received
after April 17 will be eligible for a 50 percent
refund.

Upon Arrival

Reunionists should make every effort to reg-
ister at the Alumni House upon arrival in
Lexington. Here you will receive the latest

schedule of events and special notices.

 

W a

nu

y th and

 

100 years since the restarting of the Olympics in 1896, but he had one nagging thought, “Don’t let

the thing go out.”

a {| 985 ——c>

Luke M. Cornelius

returned to Florida to finalize his
doctoral work after a year as a pro-
fessor of education finance at
University of Nevada at Las Vegas.
In December 2000, he formally
defended his dissertation on acad-
emic freedom law as it affects fac-
ulty in primary and secondary
schools and in colleges and univer-
sities at the University of Florida.
He received his Ph.D. in higher
education administration, with an
emphasis in educational law and
finance, and a minor in public pol-
icy. In January 2001 he accepted a
position as assistant professor of
school law at the State University
in West Georgia. Cornelius
authored a chapter in_ the
Prinaipal’s Legal Handbook, 2nd ed.

Charles T. King

was promoted to vice president
and controller of Bassett Furniture
Industries Inc. He will oversee the
company’s accounting depart-
ment, manage the financial
approval process for new Bassett
Furniture Direct licensees and
assist with profitability plans for
dealers. He lives in Martinsville,

Va.

Paul D. Marasciullo

joined UBS PaineWebber as vice
president of investments in the
Wall Street complex office after
having spent 10 years’ with
Citigroup. He resides in Laurel
Hollow, N.Y., with his wife,

Carrying the Torch

flame that has been burning more than

Melissa, and his two sons, Joseph,
3, and David, 1.

Terrance McWhorter

joined the U.S. Department of
‘Treasury, national office of chief
counsel for the IRS, in Washington
as an attorney-advisor. In addition
to his J.D. from the University of
Cincinnati College of Law, he
received a C.P.A. and an LL.M. in
taxation from the University of
Miami School of Law graduate
program in taxation. He resides in
Fairfax, Va., with his champion
boxer, Shanta.

O._- 1986 — <>

Lawrence S. Anker

enjoys his life in Sparta, N.J. He
spends his free time with his two
daughters, Abbi, 6, and Josie, 4,
playing softball, soccer or other
outdoor activities.

Dr. John D. Templeton
started a private pediatric practice
in Asheville, N.C., this past sum-
mer, called Asheville Children’s
Medical Center.

“I 1 98 7 ——_S>

Tyler S. Carr

hopes his three daughters
Caroline, 7, Elizabeth, 5, and
Emily, 2, will join the W&L
Generals in the future. He and his
family live in Ridgefield Conn.

Christopher R. Carter
was appointed head of school of
the Bishop Seabury Academy in

Fg es ee” ee | eae

George Goodwin °39 carried the 2002
Olympic ‘Torch down Peachtree Street in
Atlanta on the first leg of its journey to Salt
Lake City. The ‘Torch Run, which started

Olympics. Goodwin, 84, walked the .2-
mile segment with Jennifer Guynn, a sup-

port runner and native Atlantan. Goodwin

a public relations firm. He won the
Pulitzer Prize in 1948 while working for
The Atlanta Journal. During the “run,

Goodwin said it was an honor to carry the

 

Poor Province Could Do: North
Carolina and the Seven Years War
1757-1762,” published in the Nong
Carolina Historical Review in
January. He lives in Clemons, N.C

Barkley J. Sturgill Jr,
relocated to Richmond with his

Dec. 4, ended Feb. 8 after 13,500 miles — _— : and children
atherine, 5, and Will, 2 1/2. He i
and 3,500 torchbearers to open the Winter senior corporate eal ‘ s

Massey Energy Co., a major coal
producer, concentrating in aCquisi-
tions, sales and commercial] litiga-
tion.

was nominated by his associates at MS&L,

Dr. Andrew J. Tartaglione
and his wife, Dawn, relocated to
western Nebraska where he joined
an anesthesiology group. She start-
ed a neurosurgical practice at
Regional West Medical Center in
Scottsbluff, Neb. ‘Tartaglione has
been learning how to surf in
Hawaii.

9

Cregory E. Turley

is an attorney with his own practice
in the historic district of League
City, ‘Texas. He also serves as a
municipal prosecutor in Texas

City.

Lawrence, Kan. Carter and his
wife, Susan Campbell, along with
their two dogs, Max and Zoe, are
enjoying the amenities of a univer-
sity town. Bishop Seabury has
another W&L connection in the
treasurer of its board of trustees,
‘Todd Sutherland ’81.

O.. #1988 —San

Christopher R. Careis
joined the faculty of the College of
William and Mary as associate

John R. Maass ; mee
dean of professional services in the

had his master’s thesis, “All ‘This

Headline News

 

The Hon. Bill Gladstone ’52, (right) of Delray Beach, Fla., and the
Hon. Hugh Glickstein ’53 of Maitland, Fla., reminisced about col-
lege deadlines during a Memorial Day minireunion. Gladstone was
editor of The Ring-tum Phi, at the same time Glickstein was spor
editor. The two also worked together on The Aeolian, published by
the Alpha Epsilon chapter of ZBT fraternity. ZBT on the W&L
campus was founded by Glickstein’s father, Joseph ’20L and four

other Jewish students.

 

 

 

 

 

of Education this past sum-
lives in Williamsburg with
Molly, his son, Hance, and
Isabelle.

School
mer. He
his wife,
his daughter,

so 1989—S”
catherine M. Boardman
was named director of affiliate
marketing for ‘Turner Classic
Movies. She oversees the day-to-
day operations for marketing and
will spearhead network-affiliate-
related projects. She lives in

Atlanta.

Richard S. Quagliata

moved to Leavenworth, Kan., to
attend the Army’s Command and
General Staff College. He is plan-
ning on sharing a beer with Maj.
‘Tony DeMartino ’89 in the near

future.

Margaret P. Rhodes

joined the Bullock financial
group of the Northwestern
Mutual Financial Network in
Atlanta as director of marketing.
Prior to joining the Network, she
managed marketing and develop-
ment for Atlanta-area arts organi-
zations, including the Woodruff
Arts Center, Theatre in the
Square, and the Atlanta
Committee for the Olympic
Games Cultural Olympiad.

a 1990 ——C>

Rebecca Brandt Condit

joined the Harris law firm in down-
town Denver in July 2001. The
practice is limited to domestic rela-
tions matters in the five-county
Denver metro area. She also vol-
unteers at the local animal shelter.

“O—_ 1 99 1 ——-S>
Cary H. Creen Il
is a senior associate in the labor and
employment department at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom L.L.P. in Los Angeles. He
lives in Redondo Beach.

Mark A. Lubkowitz

has been named assistant professor
of biology at Saint Michael’s
College in Colchester, Vt.

Helen C. O'Shea

moved from San Francisco to
Charlotte, N.C., where she is the
sfants and public affairs coordina-
tor for the Trust for Public Land, a

Henprofit land conservation organi-
Zauion.

 

 

Bruce Rider ’66 (right), a columnist with the Co/leyville News ©

Times in Grapevine, ‘Texas, poses with ‘Tom Wolfe ’51 during

Reunion Weekend May 4.

460 Op Bes iS

Mason L. Pettit

produced, adapted and performed
in an off-Broadway musical adapta-
tion of Shakespeare’s 7we/fth Night,
which enjoyed a sold-out run at
New York’s Connelly ‘Theater.
Mason continues to work as the
commercial voice of Showtime
Boxing, ESPN Full Court and
Food Network.

David P. Stevens

became a partner in the law firm of
Nix, Gilliland, Lyons & Higgins
P.C. His practice concentrates on
employment issues. Stevens and
his >sowite,;: Lisa) <cTreside in
Montgomery, Ala.

én 4 O95 o>

Joan Sharp Boyles

is employed by Watson Desking in
Poulsbo, Wash., as a project man-
ager and professional drafter. In
1999, she accompanied’ Ed
Spencer °53, Wé&L_ professor
emeritus of geology, on the alumni
trip to Nepal, after which she
joined the Seattle Mountaineers
and graduated from _ the
“Mountaineering 101” course last
November. ‘The course requires
certification in wilderness rescue,
wilderness ethics, navigation and
snow/ice climbing skills. She is
training for her third marathon and
enjoys sea kayaking around
Seattle.

William P. Coffin Jr.

is a full-time writer for Palladium
Books, a leading publisher of role-
playing games. He and his wife,

Allison, purchased a home in
Neptune, N.J. Their daughter,
Fiona, celebrated her first birthday
in July.

J. Heath Dixon

started as an associate at Hughes &
Luce L.L.P. in Dallas, after gradu-
ating from University of Chicago
Law School.

Dr. Kathleen R. Mekjian

moved to San Francisco to attend
the University of California
Hastings College of the Law, after
working as a postdoctoral research
fellow in the department of micro-

biology and molecular genetics at
University of California at Los
Angeles.

David A. McWhorter

and his wife, Wendy, love living in
Washington. He is working for the
Institute for Defense Analyses in
Alexandria, Va. She is employed by
William M. Mercer Inc. in down-

town D.C.

OO 199 4 —_©»

J. Benjamin Eggleston Jr.
is delighted to be back at W&L for
a year as a visiting instructor in the
philosophy department. Mean-
while, he is finishing up his Ph.D.
in philosophy at the University of
Pittsburgh.

Patrick F. McDermott

is working with the president, fac-
ulty and staff of Dublin City
University, Dublin, Ireland, to
assist in the implementation of the
university’s dynamic plan to lead
Irish higher education into the 21st
century. His primary responsibili-
ties will be in building internation-
al partnerships and _ strategic
alliances with other institutions of
higher education, multinational
corporations, philanthropic organi-
zations and other institutions inter-
ested in innovative practices in
higher education. He lives in
Washington.

fo A Om W.-C >

Dr. T. Michael Brooks Jr.
graduated from the University of

_ Bluesonthe Greens

 

John Folsom °73 and class of 1992 members Bill LaMotte, Read

Folline and Craig Waites, all of Columbia, S.C., gave a team from

the University of South Carolina a run for its money in the Forest

Lake Club “College Challenge”

Golf ‘Tournament last fall.

Ultimately, the Gamecocks beat the Generals.

 

 

W a

s

h

i ® aatm s and

 

 

 

David F. Cook 61 took an unusual route to his 40th reunion last
May. He arrived via the Appalachian Trail, where he was in the
process of hiking the entire 2,2000-mile distance.

Starting March 18, 2001, in Georgia and finishing a tri-
umphant five months later on Katahdin Mountain in Maine—
with a layover in Lexington for Reunion Weekend May 3-5—he
wore out two and half pairs of boots, conquered some rugged
terrain and survived blizzards, heavy rain and mud. “Everyday I
wanted to quit, but I couldn’t because I had told so many peo-

ple about this.” Below are some excerpts from his diary.
Trail Name: “Wildman”

Reasons for Trek: “To seek a simpler way of life, a test to see if
I had the persistence and determination to make it (only 5
percent over 60 years of age succeed) and a love of nature

and the outdoors.”

Food: “Mostly peanut butter, candy bars, macaroni and cheese,
anything high in calories (burned over 5,000 calories a day).”

Wildlife Encountered: “A couple of bears, moose in New
Hampshire and lots of snakes.”

Weight loss: “25 pounds. Went from 165 to 140, although I’ve
gained most of that back.”

Average Miles per day: “14”
Most beautiful/difficult: “Maine and New Hampshire.”
Notes regarding typical hikers:

t= 10 percent female

ts Average age is 26

t= High IQ and well educated

ts Liberal philosophy (environmentalists and socialists)
t= Voted for Gore

t= Introverted

Reasons for quitting:
t= Physical—body gives out
t= Emotional—after awhile your mind plays games with you

c= F'inancial—run out of money

 

 

Alabama School of Dentistry in
June. He began a three-year ortho-
dontics residency in Birmingham.
He is happily married and has a 2-
year-old Jack Russell terrier named
Bennett.

Thomas A. Day
is an associate with Shearman and
Sterling in Munich, Germany.

Theodore W. Dimitry

is in his second year at Rice
University’s Jesse H. Jones
Graduate School of Management
in Houston. This past summer he
interned with SalvageSale, Inc., a
year-old start-up company special-
izing in the disposal of industrial
salvage over the Internet.

Dr. Katherine A. Knight

is working in a 24-hour veterinary
hospital in Denver and living in
Fort Collins, Colo. She still has
Mel, the lovebird she had in col-
lege, as well as two cats and a
Dalmatian.

O_ 1996 —_ ©>

Matthew J. Cannon

opened Cannon Financial
Resources L.L.C. in Conneaut
Lake, Pa., a full-service mortgage
brokerage. ‘The firm is originating
both residential and commercial
mortgages, accounts receivable
financing, equipment leasing and
various other secured and non-
secured financing facilities.

Charles B. Carabello

is working for the office of under-
graduate admissions at the
University of Georgia. He is work-
ing with Bob Spatig ’85 and is glad
to have another General in the
Bulldog Nation.

Jonathan C. Coffman
continues to coach. He was sta-
tioned at The College of
Charleston in South Carolina last
year and will be moving to Stetson
University in Florida in April in
order to join a high school friend
who became the youngest
Division I coach in the country.

Dr. Colin C. Looney
graduated from Duke Medical
School. He is a member of Alpha
Omega Alpha, an academic hon-
orary society for medicine. He was
a Howard Hughes Basic Science
Medical Student Investigator dur-
ing his third year. He received the
Dean’s Award upon graduation
and is now in his first year of ortho-
pedic surgery residency at Duke.

Charles A. Santo

moved to Portland, Ore., Where h
will be pursuing a Ph.D. in ural
studies/planning at Portland Scull
University. His wife, Courtne
Miller Santo ’98, is continuing hal
career In communications, seryin
as the publications manager for the
Alliance for Lung Cancer
Advocacy and Education,

“O—_ 1 997~_a
Amy E. Bookout

is teaching upper school English at
Stratford Academy in Macon, Ga.

Adam M. Branson

enjoys working for the foreign agri-
culture service at the US.
Embassy in Beijing. He has been
in China for the last two years and
always appreciates hearing about

W&L.

Roderick S. Carmody

is enjoying his first year of business
school at ‘The Tuck School of
Business at Dartmouth. He would
like any alumni who find them-
selves in the area to look him up,

Elizabeth A. Fritze

will be in Germany from late
October through June to partici-
pate in the German Academic
Exchange Service’s International
Lawyers Program. Once the pro-
gram ends, Fritze will resume
working as an associate at the
Washington office of Fulbright &
Jaworski, where she reminisces
about W&L with Scott English "93
and Joseph Small 69.

William D. Rust

is stationed in Norfolk, Va., where
he serves as a prosecutor for the
Navy JAG Corp.

OW 1998 — Sa

Rebecca L. Bagdonas

is in her fourth year of medical
school at SUNY Upstate Medical
University. She is pursuing a resi-
dency in anesthesiology and will
begin the interview process shortly.

Rocio A. Chandler
lives in Strasbourg, France.

Susan E. Creamer
is completing her two-year service
with the Peace Corps in Paraguay:

Noah M. Egorin ;
is still working for the Adrenaline
Group and lives in Arlington, Va.

 

 

 

 

Andrew P. Kintz

. ned a men’s a cappella group
Died Sound Investment. Al-
Sach it’s no Southern Comfort,
c has been performing with them
over the past year. Kintz lives in

Atlanta.

celeste E. Rasmussen
eraduated from the University of
Virginia School of Law in May
2001, where she was business edi-
cor of the Journal of Law and
Politics. She was admitted to the
Louisiana bar and is an associate in
the corporate and securities section
of the law firm of Jones, Walker,
Waechter, Poitevant, Carrere &
Denegre L.L.P. in New Orleans.

Margaret A. Wooldridge

is in her last year of graduate school
for architecture at the University of
Texas at Austin.

Oo 1999 —S>»
Brendan M. Breen Combes
is playing in a band called “wood-
sidequinn” in Cleveland. ‘They are
gaining widespread popularity in
the Cleveland music scene and are
beginning to tour more extensive-
ly throughout the country includ-
ing occasional stops in Lexington.
For more info, people can visit
http://www.woodsidequinn.com.

Stuart D. Hogue

is finishing his M.B.A. at the
University of Denver. He is look-
ing forward to the ski season this
year, which promises to be great.

Katherine H. Jenkins
received her M.T° in special and
elementary education from the
University of Virginia. She moved
to San Diego to teach students
with emotional disorders at
Marston Middle School.

Martha M. Kieckhefer

is in her second year of veterinary
school at the University of Florida.
Her roommate is Carson Cham-
bers 00. Last August, she was a
bridesmaid for Erin Ruane 799,
along with Armistead Lemon °99
and Corey Stephens ’99. She had a
wonderful time seeing many of her
friends.

Christopher B. Looney
is a medical student at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina.

Sarah E. Rector

is pursuing an M.B.A. at Vanderbilt
University’s Owen Graduate
School of Management in Nash-
ville, ‘Tenn.

M. Bryan Wheeler
completed the basic training for
the U.S. Army at Fort Stull, Okla.,
in May of 1999 and has since
earned a commission as a second
lieutenant at Officer Candidate
School at Fort Benning, Ga. He is
currently in Airborne School,
learning how to jump out of air-
planes in a violent and lethal
mannet.

Middle Tennessee

 

The W&L y. Sewanee Football Game is a perennial favorite. This

year’s event on Oct. 20 included a tailgate at the Sewanee stadium
hosted by the Middle Tennessee Chapter. From left: Jeff
Tarimianz ‘96, Sandy Hooper ’97, ’03L and Tom Hooper 93.

| ee eee

 

 

Former W&L psychology professor, Dr. David G. Elmes is pic-

tured here with three former students. From left: Rich Cober ’96,
Chris Rosen ’99, Elmes and Dr. Paul Levy ’84. But the story is
more interesting than that, writes Levy, an associate professor of

psychology at the University of Akron, Akron, Ohio. Levy himself

is advisor to Cober and Rosen, now in graduate school.

O._.- 2000 — <>»

E. Tyler Bates

spent a year in London completing
a postgraduate program in fine arts
at Christie’s. She lived with Dalton
Norwood ’00, and did some travel-
ing in her spare time. She is now a
first-year law student at ‘The
University of Alabama School of
Law.

Nancy L. Reinhart

left in June 2001 for a two-year
commitment to the Peace Corps in
Armenia. She is working 1n health
education in the south of the for-
mer Russian Republic. Exploring
some of the ancient ruins that are
outside of Yerevan and Gumri
where she trains, she has a feeling
of being “back in Bible times.”

co. 2OO i ——_<>

Raquelle A. Headley

is a medical student at Columbia
University College of Physicians
and Surgeons.

Deena N. Johnson

is employed by the Corporation for
National Service in Washington, an
umbrella agency for AmeriCorps
National Service, the National
Senior Service Corps and Learn
and Serve America. She plans to
crace «the «6Feace. Corps in
spring/summer of 2002 in order to
teach English, hopefully in
Eastern Europe.

Rachel A. Perdue
is a first-year law student at
Washington and Lee.

Stephen L. Phillipson

is an investment banking analyst at
Morgan Stanley in New York. He
is sharing an apartment with his
pledge brother, William D. Christ
II 01.

Sarah L. Riggs

is attending the Harvard Graduate
School of Business. She fears the
next two years will be tough, but
she feels W&L has prepared her
well. She wants everyone coming
to Boston to give her a call.

John A. Valentine

is employed by the Richmond
office of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
a small but top quality banking
firm.

MARRIAGES

 

W. Curtis Cowan Jr. 84 to Sarah
Bliss on May 5, 2001. ‘The couple
reside in Memphis, ‘Ienn., where
he is the owner of Memphis
Machinery.

John C. Kalitka ’87 to Andrea M.
Schmieg on July 28, 2001, in
Wilmington, Del. Groomsmen
included classmates ‘Thomas J.
Boyd, James ‘IT’ Hamlin IV and
Jeffrey L. Marks. The couple
reside in Arlington, Va.

 

 

David S. Crove’89 to Margarete
“Maggie” Elizabeth Crocker on
June 16, 2001. Classmate David
Burns was the best man along
with Mike Carroll and Fray
McCormick as groomsmen.
Other classmates in attendance
included Gar Sydnor, Kevin and
Courtney Struthers, Hugh ’80
and Liz Smith Robinson and
Christie Davis along with Tom
O’Brien ’88 and Jim William ’88.
‘The couple live in Reston, Va.,
where Grove works as vice presi-
dent/client development manag-
er for First Union. She is working
on her Ph.D. in education with a
concentration in curriculum, the-
ory and development from the
University of Maryland.

Michael D. Whorton Jr. '91 to
Beatriz Elena Caballero on Sept.
22, 2001, in Dallas. ‘The couple live
in Dallas, where he works for
Credit Suisse First Boston.

the South Pacific.

Cambridge, Md. ‘The couple

Marjolane Merryweather ’92 to reside in Cambridge.

Donald Jonathan Wooten on Sept.
9, 2000, at her parent’s waterfront
home in Cambridge. She graduat-
ed from the University of
Baltimore School of Law in May
1995 and practices law with her

William E. Thomas Jr. '92 to
Mary Margaret Gardner on June
Z, 2001, in Miami Beach. The
wedding party included class-
mates Peyton Chapman, Gene

father at the law offices of Pride, Jay McKnight, Ward
Harrington & Merryweather in Maedgen, Scott Prigge and
Lives of

Mason Alley '92 and Stephanie SenCupta '93L

deal with criminals, murderers, assassination plots

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

and government secrets everyday. On deadline.

For creative stimulation, they scour local
newspapers from across the nation or read spy nov-
els. Sometimes they dream up their own ideas.
‘They write a script in a matter of days and watch
it turned into action right away. Both are writers
for television shows that premiered this fall —
Alley for CBS’s “The Agency,” about the CIA,
and SenGupta for NBC’s “Law & Order:
Criminal Intent.”

For Alley, an art and history major, it all began
with a choice between law school and a film and
television workshop in Maine, where he applied
because he wanted to make a documentary about
the history of W&L. “My dad sat me down and
said, ‘You can always go to law school. Go do
this,” Alley said.

A few years later, he wrote a pilot for a’ TV

show about young law clerks of the Supreme Court. Though never

| ee

 

‘Iwo members of the class of 1995— Alex Cross (left) and Aki
Nichols (right)—recently were stationed briefly on the same

ship, the U.S.S. Essex. They were on a humanitarian mission in

 

 

their two cats. She is a
analyst at Booz, ‘Allen
Hamilton in New York,

research

and

Angela Mims '93 David
McIntyre Smith on July 14, 2004
in Richmond. Members of th
wedding party include ;
Rucker °93 as a bridesmaid and
Mary Jo Geyer "93 as a mistress of
ceremonies. Classmates Jeremy
Meadows, Herm Moyer, Kathleen
O’Connor, Jennifer Car Rabaey
and ‘Tommy Ritter 94 also attend-
ed. She teaches English at
Douglas S. Freeman High School
in Henrico County.

d Susan

Andrew L. Shapira 96 to Kristin
Lawrence '96 on Aug. 4, 2001.
‘The couple moved to New York
City, where she teaches seventh
and eighth grade science at
Columbia Preparatory School. He
is a vice president in the fixed
income group at Bank of America

Thompson Lykes ’91 and Alex Securities L.L.C.

Haw 794. He is working on his
M.B.A. at the University of
Virginia.

Matthew E. Bradshaw '97
Catherine Wolfe on Sept. 15, 2001,
in Richmond. They live in Glen

Elizabeth S. Miller '93 to Stuart “en, Va.

Boose on Oct. 2, 1999, in
Lumberville, Pa. Kathy Ferrell
Swann ’93 was the maid of honor.
‘The couple live in Brooklyn with

Shannon Jamieson '97 to Tony
Izquierdo on June 23, 2001.
Members of the wedding party
included bridesmaids _ Kate

Crime

produced, it caught the attention of a California producer and led
him last summer to the job writing for “The Agency.”

SenGupta, who has always enjoyed creative writ-
ing, decided to pursue it as a career after
four years as a public defender for the
Brooklyn Legal Aid Society. She received
an MFA in dramatic writing from New
York University, then moved to Los
Angeles.

“Writing for television is unique
because you have the opportunity to
explore characters over a much longer
period of time,” she said. Several of the
episodes SenGupta has written already
have aired, including “The Faithful,”
about a murdering priest, and “Poison,”
about a product tamperer.

But will Alley ever make that documentary 00

his alma mater? “One day, I hope to,” he said.

— Jill Kosch 00

 

Washington and

 

 

 

 

 

99 and Megan Flohr Hess

enkins

r and groomsman Dev ER:
ax °95, The couple live in
Kinsey 99. [he p

Memphis, ‘Tenn.

. Davis "98 to Shannon
_ Sept. 15, 2001. Members
of the wedding party included
classmates Leland Miller and Scott
Wein. He is an analyst for Tite
Carlyle Group in Washington.
They bought a new home in

Krebs on

Vienna, Va.

Bryce Russell Bendall '98 to
Stuart Horsley Harris on April 21,
2001. Members of the wedding
party included classmates Ericka
Shapard, Amy Greeley, Ashley
Vanarsdall, Mary New, Whitney
Parker and Mary Michael Petty-
john Massie. Richard Bendall, the
bride’s brother who attended
W&L from 1998-99, was a grooms-
man. She is working for Coxe,
Curry & Associates, a fundraising
consulting firm for non-profits in
Atlanta. Her husband 1s a director
at Julien J. Studley, a commercial
real estate consulting firm. “They
live in Atlanta.

Robert M. Hughes '98 to
Elizabeth Morgan Keville on Sept.
1, 2001. He is finishing a master’s
in chemistry at East Carolina
University, and she is finishing her
master’s in Suzuki pedagogy at
ECU, while teaching music in the
public schools.

James F. McKenna '98 to Dana
Farrell on Oct. 13, 2001. He is fly-
ing F-14 fighter jets for the Navy.
The couple live in Virginia Beach.

Daniel H. Rushing '98 to Jennifer
Hauck on April 28, 2001. Members
of the wedding party included
Aaron Brotherton 98 as best man
and Jed Hazlett ’99 as a grooms-
man. He is interested in any W&L
alumni activity in the San
Francisco area.

M. Roy Burns '99 to Emily
Virginia Black on July 14, 2001.
Members of the wedding party
included —_ classmates Chip
Westerman. Doug Peddle and
Andy Scott. He is an associate with
1A Associates, a private equity
firm based in Boston.

Holly Estes ‘00 to H. Wade
Minter on May 26, 2001, in the
Couple’s hometown of Kenbridge,
- Bridesmaids included Erika
assutti ‘00, Alysia Graber 99 and
Cassie Ritter ‘01. Rachel Welch ’02

Was : ; . J
AS a reader during the ceremony.

‘The couple reside in Fuquay-

Varina, N.C.

 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Benson
Hl ’82, a daughter, Sarah “Alden,”
on May 18, 2000. Benson 1s
employed by an Internet-based
provider of corporate printing ser-
vices in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Coleman
Jr. '82, a son, John Wheeler, on
Oct. 23, 2001. He joins his brother,
‘Thomas; 14,.- and-~ his’ sister,
Elizabeth, 8. ‘They live in
Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin F.
Jarratt 11'82, a son, Colin Joseph,
on June 1, 2001. ‘The family reside
in McLean, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Staugaitis '82, a son, John Grant,
on Aug. 29, 2001. ‘They live in
Baltimore.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael H. Lewers
'83, a daughter, Caroline Joan, on
March 15, 2001. She joins brothers,
Michael and Patrick. ‘The family
live in Wayne, Pa.

H. Powell Starks '83 ('88L) and
Fiona Harkess '90, a son, H.
Powell Starks Jr. on Sept. 4, 2001.
When they visited the campus
during Homecoming Weekend
Starks conducted interviews at the

Law School for his firm, Frost,
Brown and ‘Todd of Louisville, Ky.

Mr. and Mrs. John Doughty Cole
"84, daughter, Caroline, on Aug.
14, 2001. She joins brothers Jack, 5,
and Sam, 3. ‘The family live in
Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Lewis 86, a
son, Richard Porter Lewis II
“Porter” on Sept. 12,2001. -Aie
joins Rebecca, Betsy and Hook in
Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. Duane B. Craddy
Jr.'87, a daughter, Mary Grace, on
Sept. 4, 2001. The family reside in
‘Tullahoma, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. James Tucker '87, a
daughter, Katherine Benecke
“Katie,” on Feb. 2, 2001. She joins
brothers, Will, 7, and Jack, 6. ‘They
live in Medina, Minn.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Wacht
'87, a daughter, Nicole Alejandra,
on Aug. 10, 2001. ‘The family
reside in Orlando, Fla.

| ee,

 

 

The annual ceremony admitting Washington and Lee gradu-
ates to the U.S. Supreme Court bar is now in its fifth year, and
has become a most popular event for lawyers. ‘The first cere-
mony was organized by John M. Falk ’86, ’90L. This year, 27
lawyers were sworn in. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and
Sandra Day O’Connor attended the event. Among those who
earned the right to practice before the high court were: Karen
Baker 84L; Bruce Blythe °84; Randolph Brombacher ’86; Dan
Campbell ’97L; James Carmody ’76L; Mac Doubles ’86L; Paul
Farquharson °84; Ronald Gache °84; Craig Garner ’74L; Paul
Gerhardt ’79, ’84L; Wilmot Harris °63; Greg Howard ’82L;
Craig Kalemjian ’73L; Mara Kane ’98L; Thomas Lawson ’83;
William Mackie °81; John Maley ’52; Anne McInerney ’92L;
John Miller ’85L; John Motsinger, Sr. ’70; Jimmy Nolan ’74;
Bonnie Paul ’83L; Joe Platania 98L; Jason Poling ’98L; Colleen
Shook ’98L; Margaret Sutton ’89L and Roger Young ’71.

 

At a dinner the evening prior to the swearing in, graduates told
stories of their days as several former U.S. Supreme Court
clerks. From left, Pam White 7/L, a member of the W&L
Board of ‘Irustees, and Dean David Partlett with William
Jeffress ’67 (clerked for Justice Potter Stewart); Gordon Gooch
’56 (clerked for Earl Warren); Rob Couch ’78, ’82L (clerked for
Lewis Powell “29, 31L) and Jim Vines 81, 88L (clerked for
William Rehnquist). Keynote speaker for the evening was John
Nolan ’78, deputy postmaster general and brother to one of the

attorneys sworn in, who discussed the recent anthrax scare.

 

 

 

 

Alumni Bookshelf

 

 

aE «
\ Filthy Lucre’s Sake

 

Fighting for the People

Daniel J. Weeks ’80 re-examines
Richard Saltar (the great-great-
egreat-grandfather of Abraham
Lincoln) and his motives in Nor
for Filthy Lucre’s Sake: Richard
Saltar and the Antiproprietary
Movement of East New Jersey,
1665-1707.

Fa aig Sl

were!

tne uo waa x Bree A
Sephce Soon

 

Gone Fishing

I'l Fishing 1s Spoken Here, a new
book by Stephen Sloan °54, pro-
vides rare and revealing portraits
of some very accomplished
anglers, writers and artists, based
on live interviews from Sloan’s
nationally syndicated radio show,
“The Fishing Zone.” Steve Mc-
Cabe ’80 helped copyedit and

proofread.

 

\ SAM WILL CHRIS LEDERER |

 

Brand Power

Chris Lederer ’87 and his co-
author unveil an ingenious strat-
egy that exponentially increases
the value of brand names by
exploding them beyond the
boundaries of their division or
even parent company in The
Infinite Assest: Managing Brands to
Build New Value.

 

 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C.
Benedict Jr. "88, a son, Charles
Coleman III, on March 23, 2001.
He joins a sister, Catherine. ‘The
family live in Atlanta, where he
is employed by the Coca-Cola
Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Wade M.
Hampton '88, a son, Reid
McKissick, on July 27, 2001.
‘They live in Jacksonville, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Londrey
‘88, a son, Hugh Alexander, on
Aug. 14, 2000. He joins a brother,
William Gregg Londrey Jr., 4. ‘The
Londreys live in Richmond.

Andrew W. McThenia Ill '88 and
Cretchen McThenia ‘89, a
daughter, Whitley, on Jan. 29,
2000. ‘They live in Highland
Springs, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Carrett Moseley
‘88, a daughter, Margaret ‘Irible,
on Aug. 9, 2001. She joins a sister,
Ellen Ambler, 2. ‘They live in
Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W.
Zamorano ’88, a_ daughter,
Danielle Marie , on April 28, 2001.
‘The family reside in San Diego.

Brent Bean ’89 and Amy James
Bean '93, a daughter, Kathryn, on
June 16, 2001. ‘The family live in
Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew J. Bouie’89,
a daughter, Cameron Grace, on Oct.
18, 2001. For those mothers or the
very curious: Mom was induced
and the baby was born without the
use of pain medication. ‘The family

live in Laurel, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher D.
Casey ’89, a son, Rawley, on Aug.
23, 2001. He joins brothers
Christopher, 2, and Bowie, 1. ‘The
family live in Houston.

John W. Deighan '89 and Jane
Allen Deighan '91, welcome the
arrival of their twin boys Seth Ah
Ram and Samuel Ka Ram. ‘The
boys joined the family from Korea
on Aug. 25. ‘They were born on
April 26, 2001. ‘The family live in
Littleton, Colo.

Mr. and Mrs. Lee F. Fahringer
‘89, a daughter, Caroline Grace, on
March 3, 2001. She joins a brother,
Jonathan. ‘The family live in
Grafton, Va.

fe OS ee a

Dr. and Mrs. C. Bradley
Cottsegen ’89, a son, Andrew, on
July 13, 2000. He joins a sister,
Lexie, 3. Gottsegen practices
orthodontics in New Orleans and
continues playing music around
the Southeast with Nashville artist
Michael Jeansonne.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher A.
Cerone ’90, a daughter, Claire
Adelaide, on Sept. 17, 2001. ‘The
family reside in Gaithersburg, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. Delos R. Clark ’90,
a daughter, Alaina Hon, on Oct. 17,
2001. “They live in Sherwood, Ore.

Joelle Jackson Dillard '90 and
her husband, Robert, a son,
Dalton Walter, on Feb. 7, 2001.
He joins a brother, Jackson, 2.
Dillard is enjoying a part-time
commercial transaction practice
with the law firm of Stoneburner
Berry & Simmons PA. in
Jacksonville, Fla.

David Cildea '90 and Ellen
Lewis Cildea "92, a son, Edward
Rigsby “Ned,” on Aug. 23, 2001.
‘The family reside in Baltimore.

Paula Owsley Long ’90 and her
husband, James, a daughter, Anna
Michelle, on March 7, 2001. She
joins a sister, Sarah. ‘The family
reside in Camden, S.C.

Dr. and Mrs. Adam A. Morgan
"90, a son, Philip John, on Oct. 11,
2001. He joins a brother, Andrew.
Morgan is ready to start working,
having finished 10 years of post-
W&L training as a vascular inter-

 

ventional radiologist. If any alum j
looking to hire one of his own be
could start anytime. He moved ef
Durham, N.C., last June to start hi
fellowship. :

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy R.
‘90, a son, Nathaniel Timot
Aug. 22, 2001.

Ravenna, Ohio.

hy, on
They live ip

Christopher O. Smythe ’99 and
Sarah Conrad Smythe "Ola son,
William Burch, on Oct. 8, 2001.
‘They live in Norfolk, Va., where
he is a new ventures director at
Landmark Communications, a pri-
vately held media company. He
received an M.B.A. from the
Darden School at the University of
Virginia in May.

R. Scott Bell '9!1 and Melissq
Weller Bell '91, a son, Tyler Lee,
on Oct. 22, 2000. He joins a broth-
er Brandon, 5. They live in
Springfield, Va.

Kathryn Richard Brandvold '9{
and her husband, Erik, a son,
James Christopher “Jake,” on
March 15, 2001. ‘The family live in
Port Washington, N.Y. She is back
to work on a reduced schedule as
the treasurer of a real estate devel-
opment company in New York

City.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Stewart
Hammond '9I, a son, William
Stewart Hammond Jr., on Aug. 1,
2001. The family live in Atlanta.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Caldwell Hart Jr.
‘91, a daughter, Laura, on Aug . 26,

Battle of the Bands

 

Rock, bluegrass, blues, jazz, acoustic. The Washington and
Lee Alumni Office seeks alumni musicians and bands to play for
Reunion Weekend in Lexington on Saturday May 3, 2002.

Last spring’s outdoor
concert on the Front
Lawn with seven musical
groups was such a success
that the Alumni Associa-
tion wants to make the
event bigger and better.

If you can cafry 4

tune, pick a guitar, blow a

 

horn, call or write ‘Tom Lovell, assistant alumni director, 540-463-
8467 or tdlovell@wlu.edu.

 

Ww

 

 

Hillel Reunton

 

Michael Dubin °56, Michael Okin ’76, Robin Okin ’03, Deborah
Okin and Barbara Dubin got to know each other during a Hillel

reception during Reunion Weekend last May 3-5. The Michaels

are physicians. The T-shirt says “Washington and Lee University”

in Hebrew. ‘Fshirts are available from the Hillel office, contact

program director Joan Robins at robinsj@wlu.edu.

2001. She joins a brother, Peter.
They live in Branford, Conn.

Alicia Hay Matthai 91 and her
husband, Stuart, a son, John, on
Sept. 5, 2001. John is the nephew
of Bill Matthai ’80 and great
nephew of the late Richard
Gwathmey ’56. The family reside
in Owings Mills, Md.

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Smith, Jr.
'Ol, twins, Jack and Ian, on July 21,
2001. They live in Richmond.

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Bruce’92,
a son, William McAlister Bruce
“Mac,” on May 2, 2001. The fami-
ly live in Atlanta.

Kimberly Bishop Connors '92
and her husband, Christopher, a
daughter, Campbell Snowden, on
Aug. 23, 2001. They live in New
Canaan, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Crow
92, a son, Stuart, on March 27,
2001. They live in Atlanta.

Julia Vennes Hancock '92 and
Rhett Hancock’93, a son, Cooper
James, on June 5, 2001. He joins
Sister, Abigail Charlotte, 2. They
live in Darien, Conn.

Dr. Jennifer E. Kacmar '92 and
her husband, Mark Heckel, a son,
Christopher Andrew, on May 24,
2001. They live in Riverside, R.I.

Whitney Hopkins Kerridge "92
and her husband, Seott, a son,

Travis, on Aug. 1, 2000. He joins a
sister, Haley, 2 1/2. ‘Travis is the
grandson of John K. Hopkins ’67.
The family reside in Edgewater,
Md.

Tom Mayer '92 and Laura H.
Mayer 93, a son, Liam Hunter, on
April 3, 2001. They reside in
Burke, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Moore
"92, ason, Iain, on March 19, 2001.
Iain is the grandson of Hullihen
Williams Moore °65, the great-
grandson of Thomas ‘Vhorn Moore
Sr. °26, the great-great grandson of
Frank Moore 1896L, the grand-
nephew of Thomas ‘Thorn Moore
Jr. °61, the great-grandnephew of
John Preston Moore ’27 and the
great-great-grandnephew of John
C. Moore, class of 1890. Moore and
his family live in Richmond, where
he works at Capital One.

Kirsten Baker Lockyer '93 and
Charles Warren Lockyer Ill "93,
a son, Charles Warren IV, on Oct. 1,
2001. They live in Montclair, N.J.

Kristen Brown Rockett "93 and
her husband, David, a daughter,
Caroline Elizabeth, on April 25,
2001. They live in Shreveport, La.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Erdman
Jr. "94, a daughter, Elyse Marly,
on June 7, 2001. She joins brothers
Sage, 4, and Charles “Trey” I, 1.
He is currently running a re-elec-
tion campaign for his position as
Northumberland County Control-

ler. The family built a new house
and now reside in Northumber-
land, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin C. Lacy
"98, a daughter, Madison Carter,
on Jan. 1, 2001. He graduated from
Southern Methodist University
School of Law in May 2001 and
started as a tax consultant with
Ernst & Young L.L.P. in Dallas.

Elizabeth B. Pakenas 94 and her
husband, Peter, a son, William
Philip, on June 26, 2001. They live
in Frederick, Md.

BITUARIES

 

Mr. and Mrs. Henry A. Sauer '94,
a son, Charles, on May 15, 2001.

They live in Nashville, Tenn. Alfred F. Taylor '27,

former appraiser for the Holmes-
Harmon Corp. in Birmingham,
Ala., died July 13, 2001, in Grosse
Pointe, Mich. He was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa and was a member
of Delta Upsilon social fraternity.

Melissa Malone Colvin '95 and
her husband, Stephen, a daughter,
Caroline Grace, on June 26, 2001.
They live on Eielson Air Force
Base in Arkansas.

Col. Julius Goldstein '28,
retired colonel in the Air Force
Reserve and real estate broker,
died Aug. 12, 2001, in Washington.
Goldstein served with the Army
Air Forces during World War II and
with the Air Force during the
Korean War. After his retirement
from the armed forces, he started
work in the real estate field, serv-
ing as vice president of commercial
sales for National Mortgage Corp.
He was a member of Zeta Beta
‘Tau social fraternity.

Heather H. Allen "97 and her hus-
band, Lathan, twin girls, Katherine
Elizabeth and Anne Carson, on
Oct. 19, 2001. They live in Atlanta.

Melanie McKinney Cochran '97
and her husband, Jason, a daugh-
ter, Jayleine Belle, on Dec. 3, 2000.
She joins a brother, Benjamin
Morgan, 4. They live in White
Sulphur Springs, W.Va.

Robert C. Covington, Jr. '97 and
Josephine Schaeffer "96, a
daughter, Nell Foster, on Oct. 18,
2001. The family live in Atlanta.

William W. Pace '29,
retired from Norfolk & Western

 

Halfway through the 2001-02 fiscal year, more than 5,000
alumni, parents and friends have committed over $2.6 million in
unrestricted support to the University through the Annual Fund.
The Fund aims to secure $4.3 million by June 30. This goal is
attainable only with the support of every committed member of
our community.
The month of December again marked growth in the num-
ber of gifts received via stock transfer and our online giving form.
4 hese

have proven to simpli-

tools

 

The online giving form and

instructions on how to fy the giving process.

make a gift of stock can be Percentage of partici-

 

accessed through our Web pation in the Annual

Fund is essential in

 

site at support.wlu.edu.

 

 

measuring alumni

support through the
eyes of corporations, foundations and such ranking systems as
U.S. News and World Report. Join the 10,000 members of the
Washington and Lee community who support the University
through the Annual Fund each year. It’s a tangible way to show

you trust in the future of W&L.

 

 

 

Railroad, died Nov. 13, 2001, in
Roanoke. He volunteered at the
Roanoke City Public Library.

The Hon. Claude E. White '30,
former U.S. Administrative Law
Judge in Chicago, died Aug. 13, 2001.

Cuy B. Montgomery Jr. '31,
retired president of Ronceverte
Ice and Produce Co., died Oct. 21,
2001, in Ronceverte, W.Va. He was
a member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Homer C. Ray Jr. '33,
former chairman of the National
Peanut Council, died July 31,
2001, in Atlanta.. Ray was a captain
in the Army during World War II
and later helped to expand the
peanut processing and manufac-
turing business. He served on the
Moultrie, Ga., City Council and
was Mayor Pro ‘Tem from 1965-
1969. Ray was a member of the
Commerce Club and Phi Delta
‘Theta social fraternity.

Charles F. Suter '33,

retired president and owner of
Suter Associates, Inc., died Dec. 3,
2001, in Charlottesville, Va. He
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

Henry Waller Jr. '34,

a member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity, died March 20, 2001, in
Santa Maria, Calif.

Charlton A. Cunter '35,

of Oxford, Md., died Dec. 24,
1999, in Ireland. He was a member
of the University Glee Club.

Alexander K. Lawrence 735,
died Oct. 12, 2001, in Lansdale, Pa.

Thomas A. Morris '35,

retired purchasing agent for
International Harvester, died July
13, 2001, in Naples, Fla. Before his
retirement, Morris taught business
courses at both Northwestern
University and the University of
Chicago. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Joseph J. Harding Jr. '36,
former shopping center developer
and principal developer investor
with Harding & Associates, died
Sept. 27, 2001, in North Palm
Beach, Fla. Harding was a mem-
ber of Phi Gamma Delta social
fraternity.

James A. Robertson ‘36,
former vice president of Dibrell
Brothers Inc., died Aug. 27, 2001,
in Danville, Va. He was a veteran
of World War II and a member of
Kappa Sigma social fraternity,
‘Tau Kappa Iota and the outdoor
track team.

Isaac C. Shively '36,

retired land developer, died Sept.
25, 2001, in Chambersburg, Penn.
Shively served in the Naval Air
Corps and was commissioned a
lieutenant commander. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa,
co-captain of the wrestling team
and chairman of the 1936 Fancy
Dress Ball.

John C. Neely '37, '37L,
retired executive in the Social
Security Administration and the
Department of Health, Education
and Welfare, died Nov. 11, 2001, in
Charleston, W.Va. During World War
II, Neely joined the U.S. Maritime
Service, but the war ended before
his graduation. He was an award-
winning amateur photographer and
a well-known author of books about
railroads and streetcars.

John W. Ray '37,

retired public buildings manager
for the Government Services
Administration, died Sept. 15,
2001, in Bethesda, Md. Ray served
in the Army and the Army Air
Forces during World War II. He
was a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity.

Thomas B. Ripy '37,
co-owner of Lawrenceburg
‘Transfer and former mayor of
Lawrenceburg, Ky., died Nov. 30,
2001, in Lexington, Ky. After grad-
uation, Ripy worked as a master
distiller in his father’s distillery. He
was director of Lawrenceburg
National Bank, a member of the
Chamber of Commerce and a
member of Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity.

Ceorge F. Bauer Jr. '38,
retired vice president of research
and development for Armco Steel
Corp., died Nov. 20, 2001, in
Madison, Ohio. Bauer was a mem-
ber of Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Ralph C. Ingram '38,

who worked in agriculture, died
Jan. 21, 2001 in Natchitoches, La.
He was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

 

SUMMER 1999

 

Wa

Ss

 

 

rey. Morton T. Kelsey 38,
former Episcopal priest, died July
9 2001 in Vancouver, Wash. Kelsey
ote dozens of books on spiritual-
icy and helped create the spiritual
formation — program at. San
Francisco Theological Seminary.
He was 4a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity.

wi

john R. Kateley '39,

retired manager of personnel,
industrial and labor relations for
DuPont Inc., died Oct. 6, 2001, in
Roanoke. He was a member of the
W&L football team and the out-
door track team.

william H. Runge Jr. '39,
retired vice president of sales for
the Georgia Marble Company,
died Aug. 22, 2001, in Marietta,
Ga. He was a Navy pilot during
World War II] and a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Michael P. Crocker '40,
former attorney, died Aug. 4, 2001,
in Bel Air, Md. He served in the
12th Marines, 3rd Marine Division
during World War I. After his mil-
itary service, he practiced law in
Baltimore before returning to
Harford County as a sole practi-
tioner. Crocker was a permanent
member of the Fourth Circuit
Judicial Conference. He was also a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, the
American Bar Association, the
Maryland State Bar Association,
the Maritime Judicial Conference
and captain of both the track and
cross country teams.

Hugh R. Best 4,

author and resident of Wayne, Pa.,
died Sept. 19, 2001. He was a
member of Phi Delta Theta frater-
nity and penned the song “Queen
of the Fancy Dress Ball” with Paul
Thomas. After serving in the Army
during World War II, he entered
the publishing world and eventual-
ly become vice president and cre-
ative director for Arndt, Preston,
Chapin, Lamb & Keen New York-
Philadelphia ad agency, as well as
editor of ChiltonWorld. During his
fectrement he wrote five books,
including the best seller Red Hot @
B ue: An X-Rated History of the
American Revolution and Adventures
of the Pen Trade, and was a frequent
Contributor to Lown & Country, Art
c Antiques, Spur and Main Line
Magazines. Best served as a board
member on many Philadelphia
Vreanizations, including the
YMCA and the Interchurch Child-

care Society, and was a volunteer of
Main Line Meals on Wheels,
Little Brothers Friends of the
Elderly and Friends of Radnor
Memorial Library.

Cc. Hunt Collins 41,
past president of ‘The Collins Co.,

~ died Sept. 27, 2001, in Louisville,

Ky. Collins served in the Army Air
Corps during World War I, earning
the rank of major. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Delta ‘Theta social frater-
nity and the outdoor track team.

Capt. Mitchell K. Disney ‘41,
retired Navy captain, died May 23,
2001, in Melbourne, Fla. Mitchell
was a member of Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity, the debate team
and the Graham-Lee Washington
Literary Society.

David B. Calt '4I, :
co-founder of an independent
insurance agency, died Aug. 6,
2001, in St. Louis. Galt was a past
board chairman of the old
Furguson YMCA, past president of
Glen Echo Country Club and
served on the board of directors of
the St. Andrew’s_ Episcopal
Presbyterian Foundation.

Dr. George S. Hankins ‘4l,
former ophthalmologist, died May
6, 2000, in Newport News, Va. He
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

Robert E. Steele III ‘41,
retired director of public relations
at Electronic Communications
Inc, died Sepe “14, 2001; in
Sanibel, Fla. He was active in the
Sanibel-Captiva Conservation
Foundation and was a member of
Lambda Chi Alpha social fraterni-
ty and Phi Beta Kappa.

Lawrence J. Fisher Jr. '42,
retired vice president of the wool
division for Wellman Inc., died
Nov. 9, 2001, in Georgetown, S.C.
During World War II, Fisher
served in the Army Air Corps
where he received the Purple
Heart and the Air Medal. While at
W&L, he was a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity, Omicron
Delta Kappa, the Cotillion Club,
the Sigma Society, the “13” Club,
the student Executive Committee
and was captain of the baseball
team.

Dr. John C. W. Campbell '43,
retired pediatrician, died July 10,
2001. i Fidton Head, &.C.
Campbell served in the U.S. Navy
for eight years before beginning

A L U M NI N E W S

 

his pediatric practice that would
span 44 years. He was a member of
Delta Upsilon social fraternity and
the Cotillion Club.

John W. Cook III '43,

retired employee of General
Electric Co., died Oct. 24, 2001, in
Louisville, Ky. During World War
II he served in the Army Air
Forces. He was a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity.

Vincent A. Ignico '43,
former sales executive, died Aug.
27, 2001, in Clearwater, Fla. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity, “Tau Kappa Iota
and the forensic team.

Harold W. Laughlin '43,
died Sept. 6, 2001, in Nashville,
‘Tenn. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Col. Jacob S. D. Dreyer Jr. '44,
retired colonel in the U.S. Air
Force and retired president of the
Facilities Management Corp., died
June 26, 1999, in Phoenix, Ariz.
Dreyer was a member of Pi Kappa
Phi social fraternity, the University
Glee Club and Pi Alpha Nu.

John L. Crist Jr. '45,

former vice president and assistant
to the president of Southern
Dyestuff Corp., died Nov. 4, 2001,
in Southern Pines, N.C. Crist was
director of First Union National
Bank, a member of the Charlotte
Chamber of Commerce and past
president of the YMCA. He was a
member of the W&L Board of
‘Irustees from 1970-1978 and was
also chosen as an honorary mem-
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa. He
was a member of Delta ‘Tau Delta
social fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma, the
White Friars and the Glee Club.
‘The John L. Crist Jr. Scholarship
was established in 1995 to help an
entering freshman on the basis of
academic merit, financial need and
demonstrated leadership potential.

Robert L. Mobley '45,
of Dallas, died April 23, 2001. He
was a member of the University

Glee Club.

William W.

Tatgenhorst, Jr. 45,

former public relations manager
for Sears Roebuck, died Feb. 5,
2001, in Atlanta. He was active in
‘Toys for ‘Tots, Salvation Army and
the United Way. ‘Tatgenhorst was a
member of Sigma Nu social frater-
nity, Pi Alpha Nu and the forensic

team.
James P. Carpenter Jr. '46,

retired consulting analyst, died
July 8, 2001, in Naples, Fla.

Harold T. Chittum Jr. '47,
retired geologist, died July 27 in
Orlando, Fla. Chittum served in
the Navy and was a member of
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Harry W. Brown Jr. '48,
retired employee of Mallinckrodt,
died Oct. 29, 2001, in Raleigh,
N.C. During World War II, Brown
served in the Air Corps. He was a
member of the Sigma Society and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Norman Fischer Jr. '49,
former radio executive, died Aug.
26, 2001, in Austin, ‘lexas. He was
honored by the ‘Texas Association
of Broadcasters as the Associate
Broadcaster of the Year for 2001.
Fischer served in the Army during
World War II. He was a member of
Phi Epsilon Pi social fraternity and
the Cotillion Club.

Alan W. Spearman Jr. 49,
former president of Spearman
Realty, died Nov. 30, 2001, in
Huntsville, Ala. Spearman was a
Navy veteran of World War II. He
was a member of Beta ‘Theta P1
social fraternity.

William H. Bender ‘5IL,
died May 4, 2001, in New York.

Donald R. Steenburgh '5I,
founder and president of Hillcrest
Ce, died Octe: 13, Z001, - in
Montpelier, Va. He was a past pres-
ident of Rockville Ruritan Club
and past president of the
Richmond Friendship — Force.
Steenburgh was a member of
Sigma Nu social fraternity.

John I. Thompson Jr. '5I,
retired contract administrator for
the Pennsylvania Fish Commis-
sion, died: Oct. 18; > ZOO, “in
Bellefonte, Pa. He was a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fra-
ternity.

James D. Jones '52L,

former attorney, died Oct. 6, 2001,
in Crawley, W.Va. Jones practiced
law in Chatham, Va., for 45 years.

Dr. George C. Kemble Jr. '52,
retired doctor, died Nov. 9, 2001, in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas. Kemble was a
devoted member of All Saints
Hospital for 40 years and also

 

Waais H A wi gat @ ®

and

a er

M: Aa Ge A Zz

I

a i aS RE,

=,

 

served on Dallas ‘Theological
Seminary Board of Incorporate
Members for more than 30 years.
He was a member of Phi Delta
‘Theta social fraternity, Alpha
Epsilon Delta, Pi Alpha Nu and
the Interfraternity Council.

Robert F. Maver '52,

retired president of Leonard C.
Ketchum & Son Inc., died March
19, 2001, in Palm Coast, Fla. He
was a member of Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

Richard S. Wallerstein '52,
retired real estate agent, died Aug.
19, 2000, in Richmond. He was a
Navy veteran of the Korean War
and a member of Zeta Beta ‘Tau
social fraternity.

David R. Collins '54,

a stage performer, died Sept. 17,
2001, in New York City. Collins
was a member of Delta Upsilon
social fraternity and the Concert

Guild.

Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr. 55,
retired newspaper editor and
reporter, died Aug. 2 , 2001, in
Muncie, Ind. He was the execu-
tive editor of 74e Muncie Star and
The Muncie Press for 17 years,
before retiring in 1991. Spurgeon
was a member of the Indiana
Historical Society, Delaware
County Historical Society, Mun-
cie Civic ‘Theater, and the gover-
nor’s board of the Center for
Middletown Studies at Ball State
University.

Joseph M. Jones Jr. '57,

former president and CEO of
Canal Barge Co., died Sept. 13,

2001, in New Orleans. He was vice —

president of the Eugenie and
Joseph Jones Family Foundation,
member of the board of Cross
Gates Inc., Bank One and the
‘Touro Foundation. While at
W&L, he was a member of Beta
‘Theta Pi social fraternity and the
White Friars.

Jack A. McCrary '57L
died Sept. 13, 2001.

Kent H. Dodge '59,

owner of the Hamilton Investigation
Agency, died Feb. 3, 2001, in West
End, N.C. Dodge was a second lieu-
tenant in the Army Reserve and a
member of Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity.

George W. Ashworth ’60,
reporter of national strategic affairs
for the Christian Science Monitor and
former Senate professional staff
member, died July 31, 2001, in
Fairfax, Va. Ashworth, who served
in the Army from 1961-1963,
devoted his life to the pursuit of
peace, working for the Senate
Foreign Relations Arms Control
Subcommittee. At his retirement,
he was senior advisor on arms con-
trol to ranking Democratic mem-
bers of the Senate. While at W&L,
he was a member of the Southern
Collezian and the ‘lroubadours.

Jonathan R. Lemon ’60,
owner of ‘The Leather Furniture
Co., died Oct. 1, 2001, in Yacolt,
Wash. Lemon served in the Army
and earned the rank of captain. He
was a member of Delta ‘lau Delta
social fraternity, the Cotillion Club
and served as a class officer.

Charles Howard Smith II '6I,
former stockbroker with Edgar M.
Norris Inc. (now Scott and
Stringfellow), died July 14, 2001, in
Greenville, S.C. He served on the
board of directors for Wehadkee
Yarn Mills and served as a lieu-
tenant in the Navy. Smith was a
member of Phi Delta ‘Theta social
fraternity, the football team,
Cotillion Club and Pi Alpha Nu.

Robert H. Fishback '62,
retired quality control engineer at
General Foods and high school
physical science teacher, died Oct.
6, 2001, in Jacksonville, Fla. He
was an avid sailor and yachtsman.

Rev. Jeffery C. Burris '73,
former minister of the Carmel
United Methodist Church, died
Oct. 18, 2001, in Indianapolis, Ind.
Burris combined his ministry with
his law practice as he worked three
days a week as a lawyer and two
days a weeks as a volunteer hosp1-
tal chaplain. He was also an accom-
plished landscape artist. He was a
member of the Indiana _ Bar
Association and Sigma Chi social
fraternity.

Robert J. Burr '89L,

partner with the law firm Sands,
Anderson, Mark and Miller died
Sept. 29, 2001, in Richmond. Burr
was a member of the Student Bar
Association and Western State
Legal Aid. %

ee

 

   
        
   
   
  
  

WASHINGTON AND LE
Armchairs and Rocke

 

‘The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in bla
quer finish with cherry arms. ‘The five-color crest
University is painted on the back of each chair or ro¢
‘They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and
welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christmas, an i
saries or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair go¢
the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham 714.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be plac
calling (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W
Alumni Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your ordei
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24.
0303.

[1] BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $295)

[J ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $295)

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT CC VISA [ MASTERCARD [J CHEGI

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to W&L Alu
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

 

Washington

and

fis a sks EE Wt ka 3

M AS GLA MW Sl eNe E

 

 

 

REAL
ESTATE
I

. ‘apnhee

Neate:

vient aisiseawagii

“TCS

ona

satiate ET

 

ccna

~
i

a

uot

RIES

sn ius

cement

racemase

Sek HIOS

ee eee

 

aes

Everyone loves a
parade. Washington
and Lee’s Mock
Convention Parade
has been a happy
occasion for
town/gown interaction.
‘The Lexington
Fire Department
has been pleased to
participate.
Above, 1968.
Below, 2000.
Relationships
between the town
and the University
have come a long
way in those

30 years.

-.-.. {See story
on page 24.}

Lhe Washington and Lee University | NON PROFIT Org,

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

u .s.

ALUMNI MAGAZINE POSTAGE

PD Ou Ge VIRGINIA aX) PERMIT No.5
- 908

Ee NORFOLK, am

fashington and Lee alumni /ove
1\Core oy balcae rem KOlbCel OMAW ata e imu ntestaeel ieee!
mater. [here’s no better way
_ than the Internet. Check out
these sights, or better yet,
just browse. It’s almost
as good as being here!

  
 
 

Les, See ee oe ee Se ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Se ee ee ee eee eee

be I I SO EF OC ee, ee, ee Se ee ee ee ees ee ee ee ee cee eee eee ee ce ee See ee eae ge

Send your teen-ager to campus this summer
Summerscholars.wlu.edu

Make plans to attend Reunion Weekend
Alumni.wlu.edu

a i, SO A A Oe, A ee SO ee ee ee eee eee ee eee cet eee eae cee ees eee gees ae Uae eer ey ener eee

 

Research nuclear energy on a site created
by chemistry professor Frank Settle
Alsos.wlu.edu

i I SS SS RO ek a ee ee ee ee ne

 

