econ io
ee

ER 2004

WihD

a

°

Ne

i
ees
. |

ity Alumni Magaz

oe
eS
Ree

BS
oo

e

1V0€TS

ae
3S ee
Sooeces
es
coe
S
a

oe
as
So
=
—
oo - S
SEREES CERECS
SESS =<
ae

: ee

fi

—
BEES
Sse
—
.
-

aS
-

ee
ee
-
—
ae

es

ae

S
S
—
2

*

ington an

The Wash

Hy Hy Wi
i i) Hy Hy Hy
OO

~~
iy
/

 

yy)
TH

Ly)

~~

 

Hy
HH
YY

~~

 

. . 2 es
YY Wi

 

 

 

 

 

BULD Dsl T AND THEY WELL COME | By Louise Uffelman

The John W. Elrod University Commons opens—and it’s a beauty.

 

ALL LEADEES ASE See ANTS:
RECTOR PHIL NORWOOD '69 || By Gathy Eberly

Norwood has a vision for his term and for the school.

 

Dery PG EPEC FAT POSS AWN. WATEEINS,
DEAN 07 Steuer l By Ethan Jameson ’06 and Ruth §. Intress

‘The new dean is up to the challenge.

De ROA Ror MCE ON 6 TS

 

 

El acumns PRESIDENT’S elect of American Cancer MY ceNeRALsS’ REPORT
JOURNA ; cans
. Society, Williams School students Athletic Hall of Fame, presti-
Unchanging values. win competition, new board gious nomination for Proko ’03,
ee ee ee se ee ee eh ee ee members, Lee document donat- last season’s achievements.
EE L E ¥ + g R 5 ed to W&L, online giving, kudos Pere Tee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

from Kiplinger’s Personal Finance.

Coverage of the war in Iraq, Ey ALUMNI NEWS

a ee

the calendar debate and more. Peyton Williams ’97 teaches kids,

MRE o a iS sok cs. Sead aen kya h eee ak tkedoeds Flegsidtues 16 W&L LAW he Birney 50), 59, gives back,
Ss THE COLONNADE Alumnus as radio host, law Trevor Norris 795 and Brian

Final review of calendar debate, ee ete eee O'Riordan °85 compete on TV.

: com etition. Per SS eee eee ee Ce he ee ee ee ee ae ee ee 2
President Burish named chair- P

eee ere errr eeeeree eee eee eee errr eeeeeeeeeeeeesreesseees

Cover: The Elrod Commons. Photo by Kevin Remington.

 

VOLUME 7é& | NUMBER 3
WINTER 2004

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Julie A. Campbell | Publications Editor

Louise Uffelman | Contributing Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Cathy Eberly, Pete Emerson, Hank

Humphreys, Ruth Intress, R. Ethan

Jameson '06, Carrie Lee '06,

Wendy Lovell '90, Eric Owsley ‘OI,

Laura Parsons, Kevin Remington,

Susie Thompson | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely '73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
Philip W. Norwood ’69, Rector
Thomas G. Burish, President

Michael D. Armstrong ’77 (Atlanta)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J. Donald Childress ’70 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport III 69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T- Dudley 74, ’79L. (Alexandria, Va.)

Jorge E. Estrada ’69 (Buenos Aires)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

Wilham H. Fishback Jr. 56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom ’73 (Columbia, 8.C.)

Wilham R. Goodell ’SoL. (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell IIT °69, ’75L. (McLean, Va.)
Wilham B. Hill Jr. ’74,°77L (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard Jr. ’59, ’62L (Baltimore)

Wilham J. Kimmel IIT ’69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)
John D. Klinedinst ’71, °78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, 691. (Houston)

Thomas N. McJunkin ’70, ’74L. (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Monier ’62 (Wilson, Wyo.)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith ’73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Hoboken, N.J.)

J. Frank Surface Jr. 60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. 63 (Salem, Va.)

Charhe (C. B.) Tomm ’68,°75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Alston Parker Watt ’89 (Thomasville, Ga.)

Pamela J. White ’77L. (Baltimore)

John Wolf ’69, ’72L. (Baltimore)

Phone and Online Directory
Switchboard 540-458-8400

Publications Office 540-458-8956
Admissions Office 540-458-8710
Alumm Office 540-458-8464

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu
Career Services 540-458-8595
Development Office 540-458-8410

News Office 540-458-8460

Sports Information Office 540-458-8676
WEL Sports Hotline 540-458-8998
WSL Home Page www.wlu.edu

ee ee ee ee ae Ee a sO URNA Lt

 

Mong with everyone who shares a unique

affection for Washington and Lee, in fall 2002 I eagerly awaited ABC’s
“Good Morning America” program that featured W&L. And along with all
of us who watched, my enthusiasm was met with great disappointment.

 

The 10 minutes of footage unfolded into a confusing mockery of the

proud history that lies within the red bricks and white columns on top of the
hill in Lexington. Despite the information that W&L provided, unmen-

James R. Brooks '77, President,
W&L Alumni Association
James_Brooks@alumni.wlu.edu

 

tioned was George Washington’s magnani-
mous gift to a struggling college. Unreported
was the seemingly preposterous offer by a far-
reaching Board of ‘Trustees, who saw not a van-
quished commander in Robert E. Lee, but a
man whose unconquered moral constitution
laid the cornerstone of the foundation of our
treasured university. Neglected was the true
essence of Washington and Lee—a diverse
student body comprising quality individuals in
academics, and an unquestionable integrity
that has spawned our nation’s leaders, pundits
and captains of commerce.

My disappointment begged the ques-
tion, “What does this tell us about W&L in
today’s environment?” I was left with the con-
solation that we simply are different—in what

we expect; in what we demand of ourselves in respect to civility, honor and

integrity; in our societal role in a culture that appears to be drifting to a place

so foreign to those with the moral compass ingrained in a Washington and

Lee graduate.

While the lessons Lee sowed here at W&L may be lost on some, they
are not lost on the students who grace our campus today. In fact, those

lessons are thriving. But don’t take
my word for it. Visit the campus.
Stop a few students and talk to
them about the issues that make
W&L so important to you. I
promise, you will not be disappoint-
ed. ‘The campus is full of bright,

 

here at WGL may be lost

on some, they are not lost

 

on the students who grace
our campus today.

 

 

 

energetic young people who will be as respectful of you as they are of the
traditions you so cherish. These values do not change with the wind or lat-
est Gallup poll. Civility, honor and integrity transcend all.

At a charity function recently, I bumped into another alumnus. As we
were talking, another friend asked how we knew each other. I said we were
both W&L graduates. He quickly said, “You W&L graduates are all the
same.” Prepared for some typical us-vs.-them collegiate banter, I merely
replied, “Thank you very much.” He went on to say that all W&L alumni
he had met were successful in their chosen fields as well as leaders in the

community, church and youth sports, and on top of all that, fun to be with.

[ said “thanks” again, this time with more sincerity. 4

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGA Z

While the lessons Lee sowed

The War ith Iraq

h every reasonable per-

Along W'"
n, | hope for the safe return of all
son,

the troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.

But I found the cover shot
(Summer 2003) and the portrayal
of this wal in your article
(“Generals at War”) to tilt dis-
curbingly toward glamorizing the
conflict, while being totally
devoid of all the troubling larger
questions of establishing wars of
preemption as our stated foreign
policy, the rhetoric of deception
practiced routinely by the Bush
Administration at home and
abroad and the very real costs of
destroying the trust of our allies
and being saddled with virtually
the entire cost of this operation—
in lives and money—at a time
when our treasury has been loot-
ed by imprudent and unbalanced
fiscal policies.

It would be good for us all to
realize that patriotism is not best
defined as the faithful execution
of the policies of any particular
commander in chief, but an abid-
ing devotion to the principles and
values upon which the country 1s
based—values and principles that
the current administration shows
no sign of trusting, honoring or
even understanding.

As a Phi Beta Kappa graduate
of Washington and Lee from the
Vietnam era, I expect to see a

commitment to more critical

Write to WGL

By Mail: Publications Editor

Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu
By Fax: 540-458-8024

All letters should he signed and include the

author’s name, address and daytime phone

— Letters selected for publication

re edit ed for length, content and style.
SMe articles reflect the views of their

authors and not ne; essarily those of the

editors or the Uniz sity.

questions in your publication.
Your article had all the feel of the
glitzy graphics of Fox News.
While honoring the potential and
actual sacrifices of our service-
men and servicewomen, I hope
that I am not alone in suggesting
that your readers expect more
from you than that.

Scott Ainshe ’74

Brattleboro, Vt.

I enjoyed reading “Generals at
War” in the most recent A/wmui
Magazine (Summer 2003).

I had the honor of accompa-
nying two NFL players on this
summer’s first USO tour to
Kuwait, Iraq and Qatar—Project
Salute—organized by Ned
Powell °71, president of the
USO, who was profiled in the
article. It was the trip of a life-
time. ‘he tour was memorable at
every turn, but a few images and
thoughts stand out.

Athletes and entertainers
such as Gary Sinise, John Stamos,
Rebecca Romijn-Stamos, Alyssa
Milano, Wayne Newton, Lee
Ann Womack, Paul Rodriguez,
Neal McCoy, Kid Rock, Jason
‘Taylor of the Miami Dolphins
and luce Staley of the
Philadelphia Eagles all had one
thing in common: They checked
their egos at the door. This trip
was not about them, it was about
the soldiers they were visiting.

On June 19, in a hangar at
Saddam International Airport, a
crowd of servicemen and service-
women estimated at 8,000 was
entertained by Kid Rock, Nappy
Roots, Chely Wright and many
more who created an impromptu
eoncert. It was 120 degrees
inside, but you would never have
known it from the smiles on the
faces in the crowd.

But the most important
impression of all may be this:
Whether you agree or disagree
with our administration’s deci-
sion to invade Iraq, we must all
support our servicemen and ser-
vicewomen who are on call 24

hours a day, seven days a week.

 

Members of the W&L family
who were profiled in this story
are the real heroes, and we must
never forget them.

Pete Alitante ’78

Tenafly, N.J.

Admirable Alumnm

‘Two obituaries in the Summer

 

2003 issue briefly mentioned situ-
ations in the lives of Howell A.
Lamar °33 and William “Buck”
Buchanan °41 that warrant a few
more sentences.

During most of World War II,
Lamar was the chief aide to Adm.
Chester Nimitz, commander in
chief of the Pacific. By a strange
coincidence, I was the aide to
Nimitz’s chief of staff. The
demanding and responsible job
brought Lamar in contact with all
the highest authorities.

Lamar had a classical record
collection and would invite staff
officers to enjoy them. When the
USO brought over two famous
Shakespearean actors, Maurice
Evans and Dame Judith Ander-
son, he saw to it that junior offi-
cers, like me, got to meet them
and attend their performances.

As for Buchanan, he attended
W&L between my class and my
younger brother’s. When he was
doing his student surveys and
appearing before the Mississippi
legislature, he stopped by to see
us and share his plans and prob-
lems. It was a turbulent time and
dangerous to express views con-
trary to the majority.

From today’s vantage point, it
is difficult to imagine the intellec-
tual courage Buchanan displayed
in standing up for his principles in
public. It was an example for oth-
ers who silently agreed with him.
Buck was unruffled and amused
by most of the threats and com-
ments. One in particular still
makes me smile—a Mississippi
congressman accused him of
being a “Yankee meddler from
Virginia.”

It was my good luck to
observe Lamar and Buchanan

 

ER gO

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

aS

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

James R. Brooks °77, President (Houston)

Barry O. Barlow 77, Vice President (Lousville, Ky.)

William P. Wallace Jr.’74, 771, Immediate Past
President (Roanoke)

Robert WH. Mish IIT ’76, Executive Secretary and

Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman ’g1 (Morristown, N.J.)
Amy C. Balfour ’89, ’93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Golo.)

Emily C. Bevill 89 (Boston)

Roger G. Bowers ’94L (Richmond)

Rebecca K. Brandt ’90 (Denver)

Joseph L. Carrere ’77 (New Orleans)

John M. Cleghorn °&4 (Charlotte. N.C.)

Douglas M. Cummings Jr. 91 (Wilmington, Del.)
James W. DeYoung ’65 (Chicago)

J. Thad Elhs IT ’&2 (Atlanta)

John M. Falk 86 (Washington)

Lee M. Hollis ’86 (Birmingham, Ala.)

David S. Makepeace ’&8 (Raleigh, N.C.)

G. Garrett Moseley 88 (Charlotte, N.C.)

David D. Redmond ’66, ’69L. (Richmond)

Hugh L. Robinson Il S80 (Baltimore)

Edward T. Taylor IT ’’81 (Memphis)

Edward P. Tiffey ’goL. (Charleston, W.Va.)
William M. Toles °92, '95L (Dallas)

John C. Vlahoplus ’83 (New York City)

David K. Weaver ’60 (Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

David P. Falck ’78L, President (Ridgewood, N.J.)

James E:. Nicholson °77L, Vice President (Edina, Minn.)

James J. Kelley 11°74, Immediate Past President
(Alexandria, Va.)

Darlene Moore, Executive Secretary (Lexington)

Law Council

Christine Champlin Adams ’90, °93L (Somerset, Ky.)
Robby J. (Rob) Aliff’91, ’97L. (South Charleston, W.Va.)
Daniel T. Balfour °63, °65L (Richmond)

JI. Vance Berry Jr.’79L (Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.)
Joseph W. Brown *68L (Las Vegas)

Kimmberly M. Bulkley ’95L (Atlanta)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L. (Atlanta)

E. Townes Duncan ’78L (Nashville)

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L (Prineeton, N.J.)

A. Carter (Chip) Magee Jr. °79L (Roanoke)

Jenelle Mims Marsh ’81L. (Tuscaloosa, Ala.)

Susan Ballantine Molony ‘ool (Charlotte, N.C.)
Jessine A. Monaghan °79L. (Washington)

William H. (Bill) Oast IIT ’71, °74L. (Portsmouth, Va.)
Robert W. Ray ’85L (Rumson, N.J.)

Jerrald J. (Jerry) Roehl ’71L. (Albuquerque, N.M.)
Carla J. Urquhart ’96L (Alexandria, Va.)

David G. Weaver ’81L (Roanoke)

Christopher Wolf 80L (Washington)

William A. (Bill) Worthington °76L. (Houston)

 

 

when, as young men, they participated in
momentous events in ways to make any alma
mater proud of them.

Alex M. Loeb ’39

Meridian, Miss.

Academic Galendar

 

As a W&L faculty member and an alumnus, I
read with interest your Q&A in the Summer
issue with Provost ‘Lom Williams regarding the
various proposals to abandon the 12-12-6 calen-
dar. What the article does not address is the one
faulty and essentially unexamined premise that
has driven the entire examination of calendar
revision. ‘hat is expressed in the article as fol-
lows: “The reduction in faculty course-load is
considered essential to attracting and retaining
faculty of the highest quality.”

When President Elrod decided to reduce
our teaching load from seven courses a year to
six, it left us bereft of the resources to continue
offering six credits to every student in Spring
‘Term. President Burish has decided not to
reverse President Elrod’s unfortunate decision.
But for that decision, consideration of a new cal-
endar would not have been necessary. Indeed,
the faculty voted overwhelmingly as recently as
May 2001 to keep 12-12-6 as the academically
superior calendar. ‘here is no doubt that the
University now faces a budget crisis. It is curi-
ous that one response to that crisis is to reduce
faculty resources by one-seventh, particularly
when it doesn’t save a single dollar.

‘The decision to reduce the teaching load
was apparently based on two bits of data, one of
them anecdotal: ‘Teaching loads at peer liberal
arts institutions are lighter than ours, and some
departments at W&L say they have lost
promising job candidates because of our teach-
ing load. Neither of those should be used to jus-
tify jeopardizing the 12-12-6 calendar. In the
first instance, the logic seems to be that superi-
or teachers will be attracted to institutions
where they won't have to teach as much. I’m
afraid I don’t follow that logic. In the second,
there is equally compelling anecdotal evidence
that teaching load is not a factor in a candidate’s
decision about W&L. In the past three years I
have sat on six search committees (I chaired
one). In no case did a candidate make teaching
load an issue. Indeed, I wonder what the insis-
tence on reducing the teaching load says about
those of us who were happy to come to W&L
under a seven-course load. If we had been any
good, I suppose we wouldn’t have come near
the place.

Not surprisingly, when you attempt to lure
faculty by promising reduced teaching loads, you
tend to wind up with faculty who are not pas-
sionate about teaching. ‘This fall I sat through
two faculty meetings, totaling four hours, at
which we were supposed to weigh the merits of
the three proposed calendars. Ninety-five per-
cent of that time (some colleagues and | kept
track) was taken up by faculty demanding to
know under which calendar they might have to
meet with students an additional hour or two a
week, and under which we were most likely to
have our teaching loads reduced even further. As
ye sow, so shall ye reap.

Our trustees, bless them, long ago saw the wis-
dom of providing W&L faculty with professional
and family benefits that are truly superior: gener-
ous tuition and mortgage assistance; no summer
teaching, coupled with a range of summer
research grants; paid leave every five years
instead of the customary seven; sustaining fellow-
ships to encourage faculty on leave to teach and
conduct research outside Rockbridge County;
full support from the dean and departments for
attendance at academic and professional confer-
ences. ‘Those, I submit, are effective ways of
attracting superior teaching faculty.

‘The best way, of course, 1s to offer top candi-
dates the opportunity to teach at one of the most
distinguished undergraduate liberal arts programs
in the nation. But by insisting on reducing the
teaching load, we endanger the 12-12-6 calendar.
By endangering the 12-12-6 calendar, we risk
trading what has distinguished us for what will
make us ordinary.

If keeping W&L as a place of distinction is
important to you as alumni, I urge you to make
your opinions on calendar revision known to
trustees and administrators.

Brian Richardson °73
Journalism Department

Diversity Debate Continues

 

Peter J. Stelling’s letter (Spring 2003) described
the blind audition process used by the Atlanta
Symphony—an undoubtedly fair way of select-
ing good musicians. He criticizes the Washington
and Lee diversity initiative and suggests that we
take a lesson from the Atlanta Symphony.
American universities in general, and
Washington and Lee in particular, have never
had a blind admissions process, nor do I believe
they should. ‘There is a fundamental difference
between the mission of a symphony and that of
a university. ‘he symphony seeks gifted artists

who will enable it to produce the best possible

music, while the University seeks to educate and
enrich the minds of its students and produce the
very best citizens possible.

Mr. Stelling’s letter implies that W&L admits 1
minority students who are unqualified, and noth-
ing could be further from the truth. At the 2003
undergraduate commencement, four black stu- 1
dents graduated with high honors—one summa
cum laude and the other three magna cum laude.
‘These numbers are excellent in an African-
American student population of fewer than 100
students. ‘I/hese students demonstrate the extra-
ordinary success of our diversity initiatives, and | 7
am very proud of their accomplishments. ‘Chey ]
will make important contributions to society and
be loyal alumni. j

Had Washington and Lee desegregated prior —
to 1966, Mr. Stelling and I might have been class-
mates. We were both on the campus at the same
time, but I worked in a non-professional job and
did not earn my W&L degree until 1985. I have
spent most of my life here and have seen only
one significant change—coeducation. Many
alumni feared that it would ruin the university;
they were wrong. Changes occur very slowly at
this University, and nothing has been slower than
the efforts to recruit African-American students
and faculty members. No one loves Washington
and Lee more than I do, and nothing grieves me
more than criticisms of our conservative efforts to
increase campus diversity.

Ted DeLaney ’85
Associate Professor of History

Photographic Contributor

 

As a long-time devotee of the Reeves Center
collection, I was delighted to acquire two copies _
of the gorgeous new book, Chinese Export 1
Porcelain in the Reeves Center Collection at ~
Washington and Lee University. ‘Vhe magazine
(Summer 2003) gave a most deserving tribute to
its creators, Lom Litzenburg and Holly Bailey.
I do feel, however, that there was a serious —

omission. Nowhere do I find mention of |
Lexington photographer Ellen Martin, whose :
nearly 300 illustrations make the book so beautiful.

Betty Ruth Kondayan

Lexington

Corrections and Clarifications

 

Preston Browning °51, who was profiled in the |
Summer 2003 issue, taught at the University of —
Illinois at Chicago for 33 years, and he operates
Wellspring House, a writers’ retreat, in Ashfield,
Mass. #

 

W

& L ALUMNA I MAGA ZI E@

 

THE COLONNADE

 

 

2 ea ee

Board Begins

Final Review
of Academic

Calendar

 

The final decision regarding
the calendar rests with the Board
of Trustees to the extent that
it affects its fiduciary

responsibilities.

Ce a ee ee

 

At its fall meeting on Oct. 23-25, 2003, Washington and Lee University’s Board of
‘Trustees began an intensive review of the financial and other implications of retain-
ing or changing the three-term undergraduate academic calendar. ‘Vhis review
occurs in conjunction with examining implementation options for reducing the fac-
ulty teaching load from seven courses per academic year to a level more in line with
that of peer liberal arts institutions.

‘The board heard a report on various ramifications of the academic calendar from
Provost ‘Tom Williams, including a review of the non-binding faculty vote, which
opted for retention of a modified 12-12-6 model over a proposal for two semesters
of 14 weeks each. ‘The board also received a report from Steve McAllister, vice pres-
ident of finance, on the immediate and long-term costs of the calendar options cou-
pled with reductions in teaching loads. Executive Committee President Helen
Hughes 04 provided a student’s perspective on the academic advantages of the 12-
12-6 calendar, which has been in place since 1970.

While the faculty sets graduation requirements, the final decision regarding the
calendar rests with the Board of ‘Irustees to the extent that it affects its fiduciary
responsibilities over the University, including establishing the annual budget, set-
ting tuition and fees and managing the endowment.

‘The board reaffirmed its support of the administration’s decision to reduce the
faculty teaching load to a level nearer to that of peer institutions to assure competi-
tiveness in the recruitment and retention of professors of the highest quality.
Reducing the teaching load would require the hiring of a greater number of profes-
sors under the 12-12-6 model than under the 14-14 model.

“We are deeply committed to the preservation and enrichment of the student-
teacher relationship at Washington and Lee. We cannot remain a great University
without having a great faculty,” said the new rector, Philip W. Norwood, who chairs
the Board of ‘Trustees.

“We hold our faculty in the highest esteem and are grateful to it for months of
hard work studying the myriad aspects of the calendar issue. We are also fortunate
to have very engaged students and alumni who care deeply about this issue.

“The board has been carefully observing the faculty process, but at a distance,
and the voting was only recently concluded after two delays,” Norwood noted in
late October. “The report on the complex financial implications of the various alter-
natives was just received at this meeting and bears further examination and scruti-
ny. We have previously committed to resolving this issue before the end of this aca-
demic year and we will do so, but in the interim we have further work to do in
weighing the many complex and interrelated issues.”

Any change in Washington and Lee’s undergraduate calendar would take at
least two years to implement, as 1t would require significant recruitment of new fac-
ulty as well as greater demands on the University’s academic support offices and
administrative units.

‘Two weeks before the board meeting, W&L faculty voted to retain the 12-12-
6 calendar. Of the 210 eligible voters, 170 cast ballots during two voting sessions on
Oct. 8-10 and Oct. 10-12. The results: 90 faculty members favored the 12-12-6 cal-
endar, 79 favored the 14-14 calendar and 1 ballot was intentionally left blank. ‘Vhe
voters considered three proposals to change or retain the calendar, rejecting a pro-
posal for a 13-13-4 calendar in the first round of voting.

For updates and more information on the calendar issue, please see
www.wlu.edu/calendardiscussion. Alumni may also direct comments and questions
to the Alumni Office at alumni@wlu.edu or 540/458-8464.

—Thomas White

 

THE © O-L ON N A OE

 

 

Creditworthy

Politics in the Philippines

Mark Rush, a professor of politics in
the Williams School of Commerce,
Economics and
Politics, has re-
ceived a Ful-
bright Senior
Specialises
grant in politi-
cal science at
Miriam — Col-
lege, Quezon
City, the Philippines.

Rush, who has taught here
since 1990, will conduct a 10-day
seminar and conference titled “The
American Electoral Process: Con-
temporary Issues” for Philippine
graduate students and faculty. He is
an expert in political analysis, consti-
tutional law and state and federal
politics, particularly on issues
including the impact of redistricting
and voting rights in the District of
Columbia. Rush also is known for
his sharp, witty and highly readable
commentaries on subjects ranging
from politics in Boston to Rich-
mond, from baseball to issues of
constitutional law and civil liberties.

The seminar will focus on
the November 2000 elections;
the changing demographics in the
American electoral process; changes
in the electoral process; post-Cold
War developments; ethnicity and
gender; elections, recall election
and prospects for electoral reforms;
and technology.

‘The Fulbright Senior Special-
ists Program offers two- to six-week
grants to leading U.S. academics
and professionals to support curric-
ular and faculty development, as
well as institutional planning, at
academic institutions in 140 coun-
tries around the world.

 

 

  

he American Cancer Society has named W&L
President ‘Tom Burish chair-elect of its national board of directors. As chair-elect, which
is a volunteer assignment, he expects to assume the position of chairman in the fall of
2004. Board terms are one year.

‘These leadership positions are the culmination of more than 20 years of volunteer
service Burish has given the organization. In the early 1980s, the society first invited
Burish, as a clinical

BURISH NAMED TO KEY POST WITH
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY

psychologist and can-
cer expert, to join a
committee evaluat-
ing research propos-
als on the psychoso-
cial and_ behavioral
aspects of cancer. He
has since served on
and chaired numer-
ous committees and
task forces, including
one to evaluate the
research arm of the
society and one to ae A

review the organiZa- PRESIDENT BURISH HAS VOLUNTEERED FOR THE AMERICAN

tion’s board commit- CANCER SOCIETY FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS.

 

tee structure. Burish
was elected to the board in 1991.

“This is a terrific honor for Tom and one which recognizes his many years of dedi-
cated involvement with our nation’s leading medical charity. His academic career, his
cancer research and scholarship and his leadership skills make Tom uniquely suited to
lead the American Cancer Society,” says Philip W. Norwood, rector of the Board of
‘Itustees. “Given the University’s commitment to service,” he adds, “this sends a very
strong message to the W&L community about the importance of serving,”

a \ ‘The American Cancer Society is a
nationwide, community-based health
organization. With more than two mil-

“I look forward to continuing to
marshal support to defeat this dis- __

w g

ease that claims so many lives. lion volunteers, it is one of the oldest

and largest volunteer health agencies

add in the United States. As a director,

Burish and other board members are responsible for providing strategic direction and

vision and for approving its national budget. The board does not oversee the day-to-day
operations of the organization.

“I have been privileged to be a part of the American Cancer Society for two decades

and to see firsthand the remarkable work of this talented collection of scientists, doctors

and volunteers,” says Burish. “There is much more work to be done, and I look forward

—PRESIDENT TOM BURISH

 

 

to continuing to marshal support to defeat this disease that claims so many lives. ‘There
are very few of us who have not been affected by cancer.”

“Having ‘Tom on the national stage will not only provide an opportunity for him to
show the important work being done by the American Cancer Society,” says Norwood,
“but will inevitably put him in a position in his social interactions to regularly call atten-

tion to the outstanding qualities of W&L. It’s a win-win situation.”
—Thomas White

 

W G&L ALU MA MAGA Zt Sea

 

Richmond on Nov. | 7-18, 2003.

THE Heo ee Be ye eg» ae —

 

 

\@a

THE AWARD-WINNING TEAM. FRONT ROW, LEFT TO RIGHT: PATRICK
FLEMING ’04, JONATHAN BELCHER ’O5, PETER QUACKENBUSH ’0O5
AND ERIK KIEWIET DE JONGE ’04; SECOND ROW, LEFT TO RIGHT:
LAURENCE EATON ’O5, JAKE SHELTON ’O5, BECKY SKAGGS ’O5S,
TODD CHATHAM ’OS AND SHYAMA WICKRAMAARATCHI ’O4.

Fl

 

Willams School Students Prove Ther Worth at the Federal Reserve

 

j. Alfred Broaddus Jr. '61, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, praised a
nine-student Washington and Lee team for marking the school’s first entry—and ultimate
victory—in the third annual College Fed Challenge Competition. “It’s a great source of
pride to me... that you won in your very first competition against seven other very strong

teams,” said Broaddus, an influential figure in

a ae ; eT,
The money and banking students Virginia’s financial and political circles.
bested five other teams from The money and banking students bested
Virginia colleges and universities  \ : five other teams from Virginia colleges and
in the Federal Reserve’s academic / universities in the Federal Reserve’s academ-

ic competition, which took place in Richmond
on Nov. 17-18, 2003. ‘The competition gives
undergraduates an opportunity to showcase

competition, which took place in

 

 

dé

their understanding of the nation’s central bank and its 12 district reserve banks and the
forces influencing economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad.

W&Ls Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics team modeled its pre-
sentation in the competition on a Federal Open Market Committee session. ‘The team
comprised nine students. ‘The presenters were ‘Todd Chatham ’05, Patrick Fleming ’04,
Erik Kiewiet de Jonge ’04, Jake Shelton ’05 and Becky Skaggs ’05. Providing research
and analysis and helping to formulate the team’s plan were Jonathan Belcher 705,
Laurence Eaton ’05, Peter Quackenbush ’05 and Shyama Wickramaaratchi ’04.
Xiaomeng Yang, assistant professor of economics, spearheaded the team, with additional
advising by John Gunn °45, professor emeritus of economics.

‘The competition required the teams to present in just 20 minutes their analysis of
Current U.S. economic conditions and their recommendation on the most appropriate
monetary policy the nation’s central bank should pursue. ‘The students then faced tough
questions from members of the Richmond Federal Reserve on the particulars of their
Plans and how they factored in conditions including unemployment, business invest-
ment, inflation, GDP growth and issues involving fund liquidity. Judges scored the
t€ams on the quality and content of their presentations, their teamwork and their
answers to questions.

 

 

Greditworthy

Boetsch in Berlin

‘The European College of Liberal
Arts (ECLA) in Berlin, Germany, has
named Larry
Boetsch ’'69,
the former pro-
vost and former
acting —_presi-
dent of Wash-
ington and Lee
University, as
its chief acade-
mic officer for the 2004-2005 academ-
Ic year.

Boetsch’s with
ECLA has already begun on a part-

affiliation

time basis in conjunction with his
W&L sabbatical project on inter-
disciplinary and international stud-
1es—areas he advanced in his six
years as W&Ls highest-ranking
academic officer.

At ECLA’s request, Boetsch
has agreed to extend his sabbatical
leave from W&L on an unpaid
basis to assume full-time responsi-
bilities in Berlin as the European
College’s acting dean of academic
affairs beginning July 1, 2004.
Founded in 1999, ECLA’s curricu-
lum is structured around specific
intellectual problems, such as the
concept of justice, that are explored
from the vantage points of philoso-
phy, political theory, science, histo-
ry, literature, art, film and music.
‘The Berlin-based school, where
courses are taught in English, offers
two nine-month programs, as well
as a six-week summer session.

“Tam delighted by this oppor-
tunity to work more closely with
ECLA as part of my _ sabbatical
research and continuing exploration
of finding new learning opportuni-
ties in international and interdisci-
plinary education,” said Boetsch.

 

iN Tpes 9 OB

Be: ee = COLO NN -A:D E

 

 

Creditworthy

Funds for Fiction

Rod Smith, editor
of Shenandoah: The
Washington and Lee
University Review,
has received a
$5,000 Individual
Artist
Fellowship from

Fiction

 

the Virginia Commission for

the Arts.

The Technological Forefront

Washington and Lee University
has been recognized as a world
leader in its innovative approaches
to the use of technology by the
New Media Consortium (NMC).
‘The school was among 50 colleges,
universities and museums world-
wide admitted to NMC this year.
The organization recognized each
for its demonstrated commitment
to pushing the boundaries of
teaching, learning, research or cre-
ative expression, as well as its
adeptness in the application of
technology.

‘The 2003 honorees join 150
prestigious colleges, universities
and museums that have joined the
NMC over the 10-year history of
the organization. Selection is con-
sidered a mark of excellence, and
higher education institutions of all
types are included.

‘The selection process is com-
petitive, and applications are
ranked in a criteria-based system of
peer review. Larry Johnson, presi-
dent and CEO of NMC, notes,
“The selection process was very
competitive—we received the
largest number of applications in
our history, and the overall quality
of those applications was just extra-
ordinary. ‘Taken as a whole, the
results show the state of technology

 

FRIENDLY LOCAL DOG JOINED THE W&L GROUP
BATTLE HARBOUR, LABRADOR.

 

Captain’s Log: “Newfoundland and Labrador,
Gateway to the New World,” August 9-19, 2003

 

“Newfoundland” rhymes with “understand”—that was the first of many facts we
learned about the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador during the
Alumni College trip. With a population of merely 513,000, the area, often called “The

Gateway to the New World,” has many
highlights. Before Battle Harbour, we vis-
ited Gros Morne National Park, a
UNESCO world heritage site, and a
1,000-year-old Viking encampment at
L’Anse Aux Meadows. From St. John’s,
the oldest city in Canada, we explored
the Avalon Peninsula and Cape St. Mary’s
Ecological Reserve, where we hiked to
Bird Rock to observe several thousand
puffins and gannets, which roost from
March to September. At Witless Bay we
had the rare pleasure of spotting 12
humpback whales. The 16th-century
Basque whaling camp at Red Bay,
Labrador, had its charms as well, but we
travelers unanimously agreed that Battle
Harbour was our favorite spot.

Once the bustling unofficial capital
of Labrador, Battle Harbour is an authen-
tically restored, 19th-century fishing vil-
lage of only 1.5 square miles, dotted with
small houses and the myriad facilities of
the local fishing industry. Most travelers
bypass it because of its challenging acces-
sibility, but getting to Battle Harbour is
half the fun.

   
  
  
  
  
   
  

CHEDULE OF
UPCOMING EVENTS

Springtime in Holland and Belgium :
April 15-30, 2004

Toujours Paris
May 3-10, 2004

Lewis and Clark’s Montana
July 26—August 2, 2004

Crand Canyon Raft Trip
August 13-20, 2004

Village Life in Canterbury and Kent
August 14-22, 2004

Eastern Baltics: Estonia to Poland
September 4-18, 2004

The Cilded Age: Montreal to New York
October 9-13, 2004 |

Italian Walks: Tuscany to Cinque Terre
October 10—20, 2004

For more information on upcoming tri
see alumnicollege.wlu.edu or contact t
Office of Special Programs at 540/45
8723, spclprog@wlu.edu.

 

WEaL

AL UNG MAGA ZI Ne

a ee ee = CG 0 L°O MON A DO FE

 

 

For us, the fun actually began at 5:15 a.m. in St. Barbe, Newfoundland, as we
boarded our motor coach for the ride to the ferry. With a wondrous orange moon ahead
of us and a rising sun behind, we spotted no less than 31 moose during our trip. Yes,
e were off to a good start.

After the 90-minute ferry ride to St. Mary’s Harbour, Labrador, we embarked on
two small, motorized fishing boats and sped across the Labrador Sea to Battle Harbour,
our home for the next three days. Our lively Irish host and curator of the island,
Michael! Earle, accompanied by his faithful dog, Lucky, awaited us at the dock. He

gave us a warm welcome of tea and cakes before we settled into our accommodations.

Ww

Our cottages, each named for a former owner and different in character, varied in
size and convenience depending on the affluence of their previous inhabitants. ‘The
interiors were immaculate and painted in lovely colors that would contrast with the
bleak winter exterior. All accommodations had only one bathroom, which added to
our intimacy, as two or three parties occupied each house. Although electricity was
available, our hearty group, ready to re-live history, preferred kerosene lanterns. We
passed the time visiting the restored buildings of the community, sharing yarns with
the locals and hiking and photographing this hauntingly beautiful island.

When I discovered that I, as group leader, had been assigned the largest and most
attractive house on the island—the home of British physician Sir Wilfred Grenfell,
who left London in 1892 to serve the 30,000 inhabitants of Labrador—guilt overcame
me. In order to compensate for this disparity, the two other couples in the house and
I decided to share our lovely home with those less fortunate by hosting a dinner party.
Other members of the W&L group—our next-door neighbors, Dolly and Jim ‘Terzian
(parents of Susan Terzian ’00) and Ann and Joe Spivey ’62L—offered to host a cock-
tail party and rushed off to the Battle Harbour General Store for provisions.

Our little community was suddenly abuzz with activity as the kitchen crew went
about preparing the house for the historic occasion of its first dinner party.
Wildflowers, placemats and candles adorned the tables in each room. ‘The guests pro-
vided wine from the store. After a wonderful dinner accompanied with lots of laugh-
ter and good food, we moved down the hill and under the stars to the bunkhouse,
where Earle entertained us with stories and songs. We didn’t want this magical night
to end.

—Susie Thompson

i Te i y
oS
_

_

A HILLTOP VIEW OF THE VILLAGE OF BATTLE HARBOUR.

 

 

Creditworthy

 

integration in colleges and universi-
ties is at a remarkably high level.

“Even among a very strong
field, it was quite clear that
Washington and Lee is a place
where smart, creative people are
devising innovative solutions to
challenges we all face in teaching
and learning,” Johnson continues.
“The dedication to excellence here
is palpable, and students and facul-
ty are the clear beneficiaries. ‘Uhis
recognition is well deserved.”

John Blackburn, head of
W&Ls_ instructional technology
group, is gratified to be included
among such prestigious company—
but not surprised. “Many would not
immediately associate W&L with
cutting-edge technology, but there
are extremely innovative projects
going on here in a variety of disci-
plines,” he says. “This is a great
opportunity to make more people
aware of the groundbreaking work
being done at Washington and
bes.”

‘The NMC counts among its
members such colleges and univer-
sities as MIT, Princeton, Harvard,
Yale, UCLA, ‘Texas, Michigan,
Mount Holyoke and Carleton, and
museums including the San
Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

Wine-ing Ways

For the third year in a row, the
Alumni Office has received a
Restaurant Cluster Award from the
Virginia Wine Honors Program for
its Virginia wine tasting held during
Homecoming Weekend.

The popular event is held at
the Ruins and showcases wines
from nearby wineries, including
Rockbridge Vineyard, in Raphine,
owned by Shep Rouse ’76; the
Williamsburg Winery Ltd., in
Williamsburg; Chateau Morrisette,

 

-Iinwrine & 664

ee ane oe Pas ee yee a

 

Greditworthy

in Meadows of Dan; and Prince
Michel & Rapidan River Vineyards,
in Leon.

“We thought a Virginia wine
tasting would be an excellent
opportunity to create more excite-
ment about Homecoming and to
promote a growing Virginia indus-
try to our alumni community,” said
‘Tom Lovell ’91, associate director
of alumni relations. “It’s been a
huge success not only for our
Homecoming guests but also from
the perspective of the wineries that
have » attended: ; for. the ‘past
three years.”

Virginia Wine Honors is an
annual program of the Virginia
Winegrowers Advisory Board, an
official board of the Virginia
Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services.

W&L Playwright
Wows the Scots

Faculty, staff and an alumnus pro-
pelled a play to a five-star review
at the Edinburgh
Festival Fringe in
Scotland last sum-
mer. “Mrs. Kem-
ble’s “Tempest,” by
Tom Ziegler, W&L
theater professor,

was a joint project of

 

Washington — and
Lee, Penn State University’s School
of Theatre and Mill Mountain
‘Theatre in Roanoke. It ran daily
through most of August’ in
Edinburgh, one of 1,541 perfor-
mances at the international festival,
which sold more than 1 million tick-
ets in 2003.

Ziegler credits a strong team for
the success of “Mrs. Kemble’s
‘Lempest.” Actress and Penn State
professor Jane Ridley brings the role
of Fanny Kemble to life, accompa-

 

   

 

J. Hagood Ellison Jr. "72 was nominated by
the W&L Alumni Association. He was
elected to the Board of Inistees at the
October 2003 meeting and will take office in
February 2004. He is a senior vice president
in the Columbia, S.C., office of Merrill
Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith, where he

ELLISON os Bo -WBY.\

heads a team of 13 associates and manages
$1.4 billion in assets for families, corporate
retirement plans and foundations. Ellison
has a B.A. in political science from W&L
and an M.B.A. from the University of South
Carolina. At W&L, he was a dorm counselor,
president of Pi Kappa Alpha and a represen-
tative to the Interfraternity Council. He has
bech active in Me current Capital
Campaign, was president of the Palmetto
Alumni Chapter and served on the Alumni
Board from 1996-1999. He served as a first
lieutenant in the U.S. Army from 1974-1976.
A former adjunct professor in the Moore
School of Business at the University of
South Carolina, Ellison has been with
Merrill Lynch for 27 years. He and his part-
ner have been the top producers for the
company in North Carolina and South
Carolina for more than 10 years. He received
Merrill Lynch’s Lifetime Community
Achievement Award for 2002, and Registered
Rep. magazine voted him one of the top 50
brokers in the United States for 2003. He
sits on the boards of the Boy Scouts, Knox
School (St. James, N.Y.), Christ School
(Arden, N.C.) and the Columbia Museum
of Art. Ellison is married to Eleanor Kibler

 

 

   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

Ellison. ‘They live in Columbia and are
ents to Zan ’03, Adger and Andrew ’07,

Jorge E. Estrada ’69 was elected t
board in May 2003 and sworn in at
October 2003 meeting. He graduated
W&L with a B.S. as an independent m
in geophysics, and he attended

   
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
 

Massachusetts Institute of ‘Technology
year as a Ph.D. candidate in seismology.
has served as a member of W&Ls Williar
School Advisory Board and received th
University’s Distinguished Alumnus Awai
in May 1999. In 1971, he taught geophysi
at the National University in Medell
1971-1986, Estra
worked for several oil exploration firm

Colombia. From

serving as a seismologist and Peru oper
tions supervisor for Petty-Ray Geophysi z
Bolivian operations manager and chief ge
physicist in Kenya for Sun Oil Company
Latin American area supervisor for Weste
Geophysical Co.; and country manager, Vie
president, for Latin America and presidet
of the drilling service group for Geosou
Inc. He has served as vice presiden
director
Production Operators Argentina S.A.; dire
tor of Production Operators Inc. EEUt
director of Wood Group drilling and ptt
duction services division; president

Sofres-Ibope Argentina;

Petrolera del Comahue; and director 0
Marta Katz s.a., Catering Services. Eserad
currently serves as president of Jo ’
Estrada Mora Producciones S.A. (JEME
SA); vice president for business deve ,

 

10

& AL Ue Aa M A GA Z.1 Ne

 

THE COLON NAODE

 

 

ment, Pride International Inc.; director,
Pride International Inc. U.S.A.; director,
Copge Wood Group Argentina-UK; and

Financial Overseas

president of '
\anagement Del Uruguay. He 1s vice
president of the Board of Governors of the
Lincoln School in Buenos Aires and is an
active member of. the poctety of
Exploration Geophysicists. He is married
to Nancy O” Toole Estrada. They live in
Buenos Aires, Argentina, and are the par-
ents of Annie ’04, Carol ’0S, Juan Ignacio
6, Stephanie and Javier.

Alston Parker Watt ’89 was elected to
the board in October 2002 and sworn in at
the February 2003 meeting. She is the
executive director of the Williams Family
Foundation of Georgia, which supports
programs in children’s welfare, preserva-
tion and conservation. She has a degree in
economics from W&L and a 1996 master’s
in health science from the Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health. At
W&L, Watt was a member of the Student
Activities Board and the Student
Recruitment Committee; a co-founder of
LiveDrive; a volunteer for the Adolescent
Day Program; a member of the Student
Executive Committee; and state chairman
of the Wyoming delegation to the 1988
Mock Convention. She was named to
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges and received the
1989 Ring-tum Phi Award for outstanding
leadership and dedication to _ the
University. Watt was a two-sport letter win-
ner in swimming and diving and in
lacrosse. She served as captain of the
lacrosse team from 1987-1989 and received
the ‘Tougher Than Nails Award for dedica-
tion to the team. She also won the 1988
Coach’s Award for Diving and the 1989
Coach’s Award for Women’s Lacrosse.
Active in national and international public
Service causes, she has served CARE-USA
in both Haiti and Bangladesh, where in
1991 she was named the Jessore sub-office
administrator for CARE-Bangladesh. In
1994 she moved to Zambia, Africa, where

she served as director of community devel-
opment for the North Luangwa
Conservation Project. She has also served
as an advisor for the Emory University
Summer Program in Family Planning and
as program evaluator for Grady ‘Teen
Services Program in Atlanta. Watt serves as
a trustee of the Bryn Mawr School
(Baltimore) and on the board of directors of
the Williams Family Foundation. She and
her husband, Philip Watt, live in
Thomasville, Ga., with their sons,
Christopher and Parker.

John A. Wolf '69, '72L was elected in
February 2003 and sworn in at the May
2003 meeting. He is president and manag-
ing director of Ober Kaler Grimes &
Shriver, a law firm with offices in Baltimore
and Washington. He captained the football
team during his senior year at W&L and
was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. At
the Law School, he was chairman of the
Legal Aid Society and a member of the
Law Review. He also was an assistant foot-
ball coach while attending law school. Wolf
served as a law class agent from 1985-1991,
Annual Fund vice chairman from 1991-
1995 and Annual Fund chairman from
1995-1997. He was a member of the Law
Council from 1993-1999 and served as
president of the Law Alumni Association
from 1998-1999. He also served on the
250th Commission and University Athletic
Council and received the Distinguished
Alumnus Award in 1999. He practiced as a
trial lawyer with Ober Kaler before assum-
ing his current responsibilities. He has
served on the boards of the Bryn Mawr
School (Baltimore), the Baltimore Civil
War Museum and the Maryland chapter of
Parents Anonymous. He is married to
Ellen Peterson Wolf and has four children:
Jessica, Miriam, Molly and John. ‘The
Wolfs reside in Baltimore and Lexington.

For more information, please visit the WEL
Web site, www.wlu.edu, clicking first on
Administration and then on Board of
Trustees.

Creditworthy

nied on stage by pianist Josh Harvey
'(0O. Jere Lee Hodgin, of Mill
Mountain Theatre, directs the play.
He is supported by Kathleen ‘losco,
of Staunton’s ShenanArts, as stage
manager; Dan Robinson, of Penn
State, as scene designer; and Tom
Anderson as technical director, a
position he also holds in W&Ls the-
ater department.

Before the Fringe, Ziegler’s play
was well-received at brief stops in
three Virginia theaters last year. But
the jump to a month-long run in
Scotland’s most prestigious venue
was key for the W&L playwright,
who one day hopes to see “Mrs.
Kemble’s “Tempest” staged off-
Broadway.

Ziegler began developing the
production two years ago as a work-
shop piece at the Shenandoah
International Playwrights Retreat.
Set in Philadelphia in 1869, the play
is essentially a one-woman show
about Fanny Kemble, the 19th-cen-
tury English actress, author and abo-
litionist. Centered on her farewell
performance, it features Kemble
reading from Shakespeare’s “The
Tempest” while relaying the events
of her fascinating life.

Calendar of Upcoming kvents

 

March 4: Phi Beta Kappa/
Society of the Cincinnati
Convocation

March 6: Fancy Dress Ball

March 12-13: Parents’ Council

March 19-20: Minority Law Re-
union Weekend

March 25-26: Tom Wolfe °51
Weekend Seminar featuring
Tony Horwitz, author of
Confederates in the Attic and Blue
Latitudes

April 29-May I: Reunion Weekend

 

WAN Theta 208 OM

id

THE COLON NA DE

 

Bookshelf

 

Lost Cause

Monuments to the Lost Cause: Women,
Art, and the Landscapes of Southern
Memory is an anthology co-edited
by Pamela H. Simpson, an art histo-
rian who holds W&Ls Ernest
Williams II professorship. Simpson
contributed an essay about a cam-
pus landmark, “The Great Lee
Chapel Controversy and the ‘Little
Group of Willful Women’ Who
Saved the Shrine of the South.”

 

Courtroom Drama

Sol Wachtler ’51, former chief judge
of the state of New York, co-
authored Blood Brothers with attor-
ney David Gould. The novel follows
a pair of friends from 1950s Georgia
to a modern-day courtroom.

  

Virginia Mystery

In his latest novel, Wild Thorn,
award-winning author William

   
  

 

 

NASHVILLE COUPLE DONATES LEE NOTE TO W&L.

 

iF President ‘Tom Burish ever decided to alter the
class schedule, the news would go out via a broadcast e-mail to the entire
University community, and we would all read it on our computers. In 1868, how- —
ever, President Robert E. Lee made such an announcement by writing it himself —
on a piece of paper and pinning it up where passing students could see it. |
He wrote on the occasion of the funeral of a VMI cadet named Bell, suspend-—
ing classes on March 4 so that students and teachers could attend the service. More |
than a century later, the actual note—with the hole from the thumbtack clearly vis- —
ible—has made its way back to Washington and Lee.
A ‘Tennessee student named Joseph W. Allison (Class of 1870) probably —
brought the note home to his sister, Rebecca Allen Allison (later Rebecca Porter),
who was a great admirer of Lee. The note passed into the hands of Joseph Allison’s —
nieces, Rebecca Allen Porter and Matilda Allison Porter. The two women appar- —
ently never told anyone about their prized possession, not even their great-niece, 7
Gloria Graves, who grew up in their home. a
After the women died in the early 1960s, Gloria and her husband, David —
Graves, sorted through their belongings and found the document. When they real-
ized what it was, says Gloria Graves, “We just couldn’t believe it.” After 40 years of ©
careful stewardship, the Graveses, who reside in Nashville, decided to donate it to —
Washington and Lee. “It’s where it should be,” says David Graves. It now resides —
in Special Collections at the Leyburn Library, where historical researchers and 3
other interested parties can view the sepia-toned paper. /
The Graveses’ other connection to W&L comes from their son-in-law, Lee —
Hollis ’86, an attorney in Birmingham, Ala., and a director of the alumni association, _
He is married to their daughter, Lucy. “When David and Gloria told me about their ©
decision to donate the note to Washington and Lee, I was delighted,” says Hollis. —
“The best part was that I had the privilege of personally delivering it to Lexington. |
Having a note in my hand that was signed by Robert E. Lee was exciting, to say
the least. I am glad that it now has a permanent home in Lexington.”
‘The couple now has yet another tie to the University—our gratitude to them |
for preserving and donating a piece of W&L’s history. 7
—Julie A. Campbell ©

  
   

J tie

   
  
  

Linn 117 7 Ca pki . bad . ad 4 Lf a :

 
 

THE EXERCISES OF THE COLLEGE WILL BE SUSPENDED AFTER
11 AM TODAY, AT WHICH HOUR THE FACULTY & STUDENTS ARE
INVITED TO ATTEND THE FUNERAL SERVICES OF CADET BELL AF
THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH

R E& LEE

WASHINGTON COLLEGE 4 MARCH 1868

 

12

WAL ALUMMABNY MAGA Z ‘1 NM

 

THE COLONNADE

 

 

Click... Shop... Donate to WL

supporting Washington and Lee University is as casy as the click of a mouse
thanks to 1Give.com, an online network of shoppers, merchants and nonprofit
organizations. [he free, secure service has raised more than $1 million for caus-
es, and W&L has been
added to its list.

From Neiman Marcus,
ft. Bean and Eddie
Bauer to Circuit City,
Sharper Image and
Expedia ‘lravel, over 400
merchants offer up to 26 - ct al
percent of each online a

 

iGive.com ~ Change online shopping into phila.

Rie ict Teel aise) ae ed MY CAUSE IGIVE.COM
Wielcome Guest

Gui? Miihe EAE

 

_ JoinHere

..up to 27% of each purchase you
: made went to your favorite worthy
cause? Your soon at ae of
 — online stores helps a cause close to your ;
heart with each purchase! it’s all free &
private. Join today and change online
shopping for good.

|) @ why Join iGive.com?..b Click Here. >)

your favorite cause.

Enter your e-mail address:

purchase to causes like
Washington and Lee.

“So many of us rely on
the Internet for shopping
these days,” says Cassie
Ritter ’01, director of the See.
Annual Fund. “The great |
thing about 1Give.com is
that once you register,

\, soon yg 5
cS

504 great stores you know & lovel rool 13 joins &
Exclusive deals to save you $100s! shop within 45 days!
F

ree Shipping offers and coupons!

Ag, $2040 pe hope po yo

Up to 27% every time you shop!

 

ages BI
tor Members

Cause Staff Only
* add your favorite cause to our list List your ergenizetion
® or choose from 23162 already listed a

a we Working! your e-mail address:
« ns raised for causes.

® $385 100.98 raised for causes just this yeart

5 . « View the list of checks sent to causes
you re adding to what you oe ee

AKAD
0
Ske pereecy <a terrerrrt

Bead). .£1VGuto...the
University just by doing
something you do on a

 

browser
: eas itiig sjsl-4g 16-4

regular basis. It requires
no extra time or money to

 

increase your support of

W&L, and member spe-
cials and free shipping offers even save you money from time to time.”

Ritter discovered the site while shopping online and realized the potential

for students, alumni, parents and friends

oy of W&L to turn their everyday, online

| shopping habits into philanthropy. In

“It requires no extra time or Bell ciss s
addition, iGive.com donations that sup-

money to increase your

support of WEL.” > port W&L can qualify as tax deductions
| for member shoppers.

Online shoppers who join iGive.com

4 can shop through the site directly or

ae

—CASSIE RITTER ’o!1

 

 

download a shopping window that auto-
matically pops up when they visit the site of a participating merchant. By using
the shopping window, iGive.com members don’t miss out ona potential donation
by not shopping directly through the site.

\lembers who visit iGive.com can view an activity report that shows them
how much of their purchases has benefited the University. A check report also
shows how much money the University has received from iGive.com members.

to go directly to the iGive.com page that supports Washington and Lee, visit
Www.igive.com/wlu. For more information, contact Ritter at 540/458-8420 or
annualfund@wlu.edu.

 

Bookshelf

Hoffman °53 presents his trade-
mark: mystery with a literary flair.
This 13th novel joins four collections
of short stories by Hoffman.

   

W&L Poets

Common Wealth: Contemporary Poets
of Virginia is co-edited by Sarah
Kennedy, of Mary Baldwin College,
and R.JI. Smith, editor of
Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee
University Review. Among the poets
whose work is included: W&L pro-
fessors emeriti Dabney Stuart and
Heather Ross Miller; Lyrae Van
Clief-Stefanon 93; Claudia Emer-
son and Cathryn Hankla, former
members of the English depart-
ment; and Smith.

 

 

 

Walter Mitty’s Creator

Harrison Kinney °47 co-edited The
LThurber Letters: The Wit, Wisdom,
and Surprising Life of James Thurber
with Rosemary A. ‘Thurber, daugh-
ter of the famed humorist. Most of
the missives are previously unpub-
lished. Kinney published a biogra-
phy of ‘Thurber in 1995 and got to
know him during Kinney’s stint in
grad school and 1949-1954 tenure
at The New Yorker.

 

PUN Tr RS Be Be

13

THE COL: O NN ADE

 

 

Bookshelf

er reikeng gr cele

son Shull

 

Climbers Rock

Southeastern Rock by Harrison
Shull ’93 collects his color pho-
tographs of rock climbers in action
across the South. Several enthusi-
astic climbers underscore the pic-
tures with their words.

 

World War Il Pilot

Marauder: Memoir of a B-26 Pilot in
Europe in World War IT, by Louis S.
Rehr °42 and Carleton Rehr, is the
memoir of an alumnus turned
squadron commander with the 323rd
Bombardment Group who earned 12
air medals, five battle stars, two
Distinguished Flying Crosses and
the Croix de Guerre with Silver Star.

 

Students are working hard on the
2004 Mock Convention, which will
take campus by storm on Jan. 30-

31, 2004 For the latest on the
event, see mockcon.wlu.edu.

 

Alpha Delta Pi and Sigma Phi Epsilon At Odds

As reported in the Summer 2003 issue of the W@L A/umni Magazine, the national
board of directors of the fraternity Sigma Phi Epsilon (SPE) removed the W&L chap-
ter of SPE, closing the fraternity house and halting activities for three years. W&L
supported the national group’s action. Since then, a different national organization,
Alpha Delta Phi (ADP), began working with local members of SPE who disagreed
with the national SPE office.

ADP, working to colonize on campus, has initiated the SPE men at Washington
and Lee into ADP. SPE National charged ADP National with breaking the comity
clause of the North-American Interfraternity Council (NIC), of which they are both
members. ‘The clause states that students who belong to one organization cannot be
initiated into another. ‘The NIC ruled in favor of SPE and censured ADP, which is
currently considering an appeal of the decision. Also, the local ADP members dis-

 

agree with the allegations that the national office of SPE made about them while they
were members of the local SPE. “The situation has been unfortunate for all those
involved—the fraternity, the membership and the families of the young men direct-
ly affected,” says Dawn Watkins, W&L dean of students.

‘The local chapter of ADP, while active, is not a member of the Interfraternity
Council (IFC), and W&L does not recognize it. To gain W&L recognition, ADP
needs the approval of the IFC and of the Student Affairs Committee (SAC). Further,
W&L faculty must approve the SAC’s decision. Likewise, for SPE to return to cam-
pus, it must go through the same recognition process.

Dean Watkins may be reached at dwatkins@wlu.edu or 540/458-8751.

SOCIETY OF THE CINCINNATI VISITS CAMPUS

 

Members of the Society of the Cincinnati in the State of Virginia, some of whom
are also alumni, visited campus in October 2003 to view recently installed
plaques in Washington Hall. ‘The plaques commemorate the society’s 1802 gift
of its entire treasury to W&L (then Washington College). From left to right: Dr.
Jim Shield, president of the society; Jay Jackson °53, ’55L, president general;
W&L President ‘Tom Burish; and Rob Norfleet ’62, vice president general. The
organization endows a professorship at W&L and presents an annual award to a
student for an essay on the principles on which the society was founded, on
American military history, or on colonial, Revolutionary or antebellum history.

 

14

W & iL A 1 :t) DA 4 MAGA ZI

 

99 percent of students’ financial

need through grants, scholarships

THE wo ee Geo fee a ee es

 

WGL Wins Another High Ranking

The newest issue of Kzplinger’s Personal Finance ranks

 

Washington and Lee University the 8th best private college in
the country for academic excellence and lower total costs to
students. ‘he rankings
examine the best deals
when including financial
aid packages for in- and
out-of-state students at
more than 1,300 private
colleges and universities

around the country.
Kiplinger’ss _ top-
ranked school 1s_ the
California Institute of
‘Technology, followed by
Rice, Williams, Swarth-
more, Amherst, Webb and
Yale. Following W&L in
8th place are Harvard,
Stanford, Princeton, MIT}

Pomona, Emory, Columbia, Duke, Davidson and Wellesley.

 

‘The report shows that Washington and Lee meets 99 per-
cent of students’ financial need through grants, scholarships and
endowment programs. “Nationally, more than 80 percent of stu-
dents at private colleges get some help paying the bills,” up from
63 percent in 1990, the report said.

WeéLs longtime dedication to helping students makes its
$30,225 total cost—already substantially lower than those at other

top national universi-

2 :
Y ties—even more rea-
Washington and Lee meets BatisO Gy tedoth fine
-» annual cost after need-

based aid to $15,452,
the study said. When

seh e

and endowment programs.

 

 

combined with other
grants and programs not based on need, W&Ls total cost to stu-
dents averages $22,063, the fifth lowest of the top 25 schools in
the rankings.

“Washington and Lee is committed to providing a first-rate
education to students independent of their family’s financial situ-
ation,” says President Tom Burish. “The University is able to do
this by keeping costs comparatively low and providing generous
financial aid, which in turn is a result of the financial and volun-
teer support of our alumni, friends and educational foundations, as
Well as through the strong management of W&L’s endowment,”
adds Burish.

Kiplinger’: also highly ranked Washington and Lee University
for its academic quality, measured in part by its 11-to-1 student-
faculty ratio, its acceptance of less than one in three applicants and
its 89 percent graduation rate.

 

 

Glasgow Endowment Brings Writers to Campus

 

Marshall Boswell 88, fiction writer, and Sarah Kennedy, poet,
read and discussed their work at a Glasgow Endowment event
on Sept. 23, 2003. Boswell, who was a student assistant at
Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee Review, is the IK. Young
Professor of English at Rhodes College in Memphis, ‘Tenn. His
fiction has appeared in P/ayboy and New Stories from the South,
and he has published books on authors John Updike and David
Foster Wallace. His latest collection of short stories, 77ouble with
Girls, was released in 2003. Kennedy is a professor at Mary
Baldwin College. She has published three collections of poetry,
including F/ow Blue and Double Exposure. &

WASHINGTON AND LEE
Armchairs and Rockers

‘The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in black lacquer fin-
ish with cherry arms. ‘The five-color crest of the University is paint-
ed on the back of each chair or rocker. ‘They are attractive and stur-
dy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for birthdays, gradua-
tion, Christmas, anniversaries or weddings. All profit from sales of
the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham
14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by calling
(540) 458-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L Alumni Office at
(540) 458-8473. Or mail your order to: Washington and Lee Alumni
Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

 

[1] BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $320)
[1] ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $320)
ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT [1] VISA [] MASTERCARD [] CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WEL
Alumni Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

7 iNT EoR* BO Os

a

15

“Get yer hair cut, Brown!” So W&L security regularly greet-
ed David Brown ’00L during his Lewis Hall days. With his
black jeans, cowboy boots and long mane, Brown doesn’t
match most people’s image of a Washington and Lee law grad-
uate, let alone a host of a business-oriented radio show. But
the new anchor of Public Radio International’s “Marketplace”
revels in defying stereotypes,
and his appearance is the least of
what makes him distinctive.

A native of Fayetteville, Ga.,
Brown became fascinated with
radio at an early age. “When |
was six and starting to make the
cognitive relational connection,”
he explains, “I had kind of a hard
time with this box that you threw
batteries in and music came out
of it.” He received his first radio
as a Christmas gift, asked for a
shortwave the next year and then
began building transistors.

“Little did I know that in
Maine there was a guy who was
just as geeky as I was,” he laughs,
referring to the similar childhood
passion of David Brancaccio, his
predecessor as “Marketplace”
host.

Brown’s first on-air experi-
ence (if you discount using a CB)
came as a deejay for a local coun-
try station, a job he held prior to
earning a journalism degree from Radio’s
Georgia State. He also holds a
master’s degree from St. John’s
College, Annapolis. After col-
lege, while he was working at
CNN’s flagship radio station in Atlanta, Monitor Radio lured
him to Boston. With Monitor, he rose from a post as regional
reporter to European correspondent in London to Washington
bureau chief, in 1988.

During his tenure in Washington, Brown started to con-
template law school. “I thought that if I could
only understand the workings of the mind of
the politician,” he explains, “their priorities,
the forces at play behind the big curtain—lI'd
be a better reporter.”

Almost a decade later, Brown put his plan
in motion. “Something clicked,” he says,
when he walked into Lewis Hall on a prelim-
inary visit. “A second-year student saw me,
didn’t recognize me and asked if she could

 

David Brown

Hot Commodity

“Marketplace”

By

LAURA PARSONS

Brown recognized he'd
found not only the ideal
place to study law but
also the right setting to

realize a secret dream.

 

help me find what I was looking for,” Brown says,
“Unwittingly, I’m sure, she’d just done it.”

Impressed with Washington and Lee’s friendly intimacy,
Brown recognized he’d found not only the ideal place to study
law but also the right setting to realize a secret dream,
“Something my classmates couldn’t have known,” he con-
fesses, “is that I wanted my law
school experience to be the
undergrad experience I never
hate:

If he had been just a num-
ber at Georgia State, Brown
quickly shifted into the role of —
BMOC at W&L. He worked in ~
the Alderson Clinic, served as
president of the Student Bar
Association as well as Moot
Court
designed the commemorative

W&L's 250th

Chairman and even

banners _ for
anniversary.

Brown’s biggest classroom
challenge was learning to write
for the law. An award-winning
journalist, he had “to unlearn
what had by then become my
natural syntax.” But, he admits,
his broadcast background gave
"QOL Hosts _ hima decided edge in oral pre-
sentations.

“Can you imagine arguing
or debating with Peter Jennings
for a grade?” jokes Brown’s
classmate Jean Hanna ’OOL.
“Seriously, Dave’s ability to
articulate his thoughts and argu-
ments in a succinct, punchy and
provoking manner, while delivering the thoughts in a smooth,
melodic voice, left the competition in the dust.”

Named best oralist at the Craven Moot Court
Competition, where his team placed first, Brown also won
both of the Negotiation/Mediation Client Counseling

Competitions Matthew
Mahoney ’00L, prompting his classmates to

with partner

dub him “Triple Crown Brown.”

Even as Brown was taking the law school
by storm, his radio colleagues were clamoring
for his return. “Marketplace” general manag-
er Jim Russell, who had tried to talk him out
of studying law, was ready with an offer as
soon as Brown graduated. So with the
Calhoun Bond ’43 University Service Award

 

16

w & i A iu uM wo MAGAZI ha

 

 

(for exemplary service to the law school and the University)
and the Charles V. Laughlin Award (for outstanding contribu-
tion to the Moot Court program) tucked under his arm, Brown
left his by-now beloved Lexington to become the senior pro-
ducer of “Marketplace” in 2000, a position he held until
Brancaccio’s departure last September opened up the seat
behind the microphone. “Marketplace” is produced in Los
Angeles by Minnesota Public Radio in association with the
University of Southern California and is distributed by Public
Radio International.

Brown suggests that listeners may not have initially
noticed the transition due to the similarity between
Brancaccio’s voice and his own. (He says that Brancaccio years
ago got a letter chastising him for Anglicizing his name to
“Brown” in order to moonlight at Monitor.) In his new role as
anchor and senior editor, Brown hopes to initiate more inves-
tigative reporting while balancing conservative and liberal
perspectives. “And we'll always ‘do the numbers,’ ” he says.
“That’s a signature.”

Brown finds his legal training comes into play on a daily
basis. He says that Mark Grunewald, his professor of
American public law process, “may wince to hear that I’m
something of the ‘Marketplace’ in-house expert-by-default on
the significance of rule-making and agency regulation.”
Brown is a member of the California bar and Keeps a shingle
hanging in the land of swimming pools and movie stars.

Nevertheless, Washington and Lee and Lexington are
never far from his mind. As he rides his motorcycle amid
L.A.’s palm trees, Brown proudly wears a helmet emblazoned

 

with the W&L trident. And, he says, “A beautiful, stained-
glass W&L law logo hangs in my office—a reminder of the
best decision I ever made.”

he Frances Lewis Law Center is ccle-

brating its 25th year of enriching the

intellectual life of the law school.

Established in 1978 with a gift from Frances

and the late Sydney Lewis 40, ’43L, of

Richmond (pictured here), the center hosts

scholars-in-residence, supports the scholarly

~ research of the law faculty and sponsors

conferences featuring

leading legal scholars.

‘The anniversary will

be . recoenized = im

February 2004 at the

Board of ‘Irustees’ din-

ner. For more informa-

tion about the law

center, please visit

law.wlu.edu/Law
Center.

 

Frances and Sydney
Lewis '40, ’43L

 

NNER’S CIRCLE: LAW STUDENTS CONQUER MOOT COURT

 

Three law students received
honors for their performances
during the final round of the
24th Annual John W. Davis
Moot Court competition, on
Oct. 24, 2003, at the law school.
L’Shauntee Robertson ’05L
received the best oralist award,
with Susan Richter ’05L taking
second place. Richter also
received first place for the best
legal brief, with Michael
Spencer ’05L earning the sec-
ond place award. ‘The topic of
the competition was the estab-
lishment clause of the
Constitution as related to stu-
dent prayer at school functions.

 

Among the judges were
three members of the federal
judiciary: ‘The Hon. Stanley F-
Birch, an expert on copyright
law in the entertainment and
computer software industries
and a judge on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit in
Atlanta; the Hon. John M.
Rogers, a member of the
American Law Institute and the
Council on Foreign Relations,
who sits on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in
Lexington, Ky.; and the Hon.
John G. Roberts, who sits on the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia. +

 

Pan: r £00"

af

 

GENERALS’ REPORT

 

 

THE NEWEST MEMBERS OF THE ATHLETIC HALL OF FAME TAKE TO THE PLAYING FIELD

ONCE AGAIN ON OCT.
AND QUEEN AWAIT THEIR FATE.
MIKE WALSH, LISA DOWLING COSTELLO

11, 2003, WHILE

‘Three outstanding athletes with stellar performances in lacrosse,
football and tennis took their bows as Washington and Lee
inducted them into the Athletic Hall of Fame on Oct. 10, 2003,
during Homecoming. This year’s honorees, who comprise the
16th group so honored, are Lisa
Dowling Costello ’93, Jim Lewis
58 and John Morris 90. The trio
also made an appearance prior to

Opens

the Generals’ winning football
game against Catholic University
on Oct. 11.

Lisa Dowling Costello was a four-year starter for the women’s
lacrosse team, serving as team captain during her senior season. She
twice earned First ‘Team AII-ODAC. honors en
route to being named the ODAC Player of the
Year and First ‘Team All-American following her
senior season. ‘That year, she led the nation in scor-
ing with a school-record 107 points on a school-
record 81 goals and 26 assists. Dowling Costello
also continues to hold W&L records for points ina
game (12), career goals (170) and career points
(230). It wasn’t until last spring that another W&L
athlete, Leslie Bogart 03, tied her career points

FROM LEFT TO RIGHT:

Athletic Hall of Fam

For Three More

The Hall of Fame honors
and memorializes indi-
viduals who have
brought recognition,
honor, excellence and
distinction to the

University.

THE CONTESTANTS FOR HOMECOMING KING
W&L ATHLETIC DIRECTOR

"93, JIM LEWIS ’°58 AND JOHN MORRIS ’90.

record. Dowling Costello helped lead the Generals to the ODAC
title her final two seasons, advancing to the NCAA Division I]
Quarterfinals as a senior. She is the second woman inducted into
the W&L Athletic Hall of Fame, joining Elizabeth Miles Mitzlaff
89, who gained induction in 1999,
the Door Jim Lewis won letters for
four years in both lacrosse and
C football, serving as team captain
for both sports as a senior. As a
goalie in lacrosse, Lewis was a
three-time All-America selec-
tion, including a First Team honoree as a senior. That season,
Lewis received the C. Markland Kelly Award as the nation’s
outstanding senior goalie. He also garnered the
Wheelwright Memorial Lacrosse ‘Trophy as the
team’s MVP. As an end in football, Lewis led
the team in receiving his senior season, with 15
receptions for 309 yards and three touchdowns.
For his career, he caught 25 passes for 403 yards
and four touchdowns.
John Morris was a four-year letter winner for
the men’s tennis team, serving as team captain as
a senior. He earned AIlL-ODAC honors in singles

 

IS

WEaL At Maa

 

 

and doubles each of his four seasons, claiming the No. 1 ODAC
singles and doubles brackets as a junior and senior. On the nation-
al level, Morris claimed All-America honors twice in singles and
three times in doubles. As a junior, he won the NCAA singles
championship and teamed with Bobby Matthews ’89 to win the
NCAA doubles championship. He then teamed with Bill
Meadows ’89 as a senior to win the NCAA doubles crown for a
second straight season. His three individual titles tied the NCAA
record. As a sophomore, Morris helped lead Wé&L to the 1988
Division HI National Championship.

The Athletic Hall of Fame was established in 1987 by the
W&L Alumni Association. It honors and memorializes individuals
who have made outstanding contributions to Washington and Lee
athletics and have brought recognition, honor, excellence and dis-
tinction to the University and its intercollegiate athletic program.

—Brnian Laubscher

he Year. fo ond the other :
‘nominees, ‘including winner :
Ashley Jo Rowatt, a swim-_

er and diver from Kenyon /

College, were honored at an —

/ | awards dinner on November -
y 2003, in ‘Indianapolis, Ind.
The nominees are outstanding

feaae student-athletes who have _

excelled in. academics, athletics and —

community leadeche and have a their colle: -
giate athletics eligibility. _ |
Proko, who was already ehbed Pe NCAA Womas a _

    
 
  
  
  

the Year for Virginia, was one of three honorees from —

Division IIT schools. ‘The list also included five Division
I athletes and two Division IL athletes. | |

A committee comprising athletics administrators from :
NCAA member colleges and universities: selected the
finalists from more than 340. entries. Representatives
chose 50 winners representing the states and then nar-
rowed the field to 10 national finalists.

Proko’s accomplishments on and off the. fold are
impressive. She graduated from W&L with a 3.685 cumu--
lative grade-point average and received one of 58 NCAA
postgraduate scholarships, which she is using while
attending medical school at the University a North
Carolina at ee Hill. |

 

 

GENERALS’ REPORT

A Fall of Firsts

The 2003 fall season proved to be one of firsts for numerous
W&L athletes and teams. The Generals had a successful over-
all season, with a 70-28-7
(.700) record and a pair of
ODAC championships.

The women’s volley-

 

ball and soccer programs
engineered many of the
fall’s most exciting
moments. ‘The volleyball
Generals posted a school-
record 35-4 overall mark,
won the ODAC title and
advanced to the NCAA
Round of 32. ‘The soccer
team went 15-2-3 overall
and also claimed the
ODAC crown. W&L
then hosted the NCAA
South Regional for the
first time in school history

clears AND GAILLARD
Daa reas Bee

and advanced to the
NCAA Sweet 16 in the
process, the best finish in W&L history.

When searching for the reasons for success, one can’t over-
look the play of several individuals who received All-American
honors for the first time in the history of both programs. In vol-
leyball, Christine Gladysz ’06 was named a ‘Third ‘Team All-
American after placing third nationally with an ODAC-record
1,642 assists. Many of her sets went to middle blocker Susan
Gaillard ’06, who earned Honorable Mention All-America acco-
lades after finishing ninth nationally in hitting percentage with
a school-record total of .423. Both were First Team All-ODAC,
First Team All-State and First
‘Team All-Region selections.

In women’s soccer, Kelley
Zagol ’05 led a Generals’
defense that allowed an aver-
age of just 0.48 goals per game
and posted a school-record 11
shutouts. She also tallied four
goals and one assist in being
named Second ‘Team All-
American following the sea-
son. She also recorded First
Team All-ODAC, First ‘Team
All-State and First ‘Team All-
Region honors.

ZAGOL SHOWS WHY
SHE’S A TOP PLAYER.

—Brian Laubscher

 

 

WIN RES Bee

19

Game Photos by Pete Emerson

  
        
 

ct. Ort

Ad

Nida He

Bi) LON 1 AS

 

these
on ae

"boson nen stony
nO heranen creo pnbeo
ie etree,
nnn eesti

y
Es

ie
:

Bi
: _
ee
i

p

Bie
-
-
Bh

The new University Commons, named in honor of the late President John W. Elrod, looks a lot like the other
buildings on campus with its red brick, white columns and copper roof. But the similarities end there. Inside,
this new space has slate floors, large picture windows, golden-hued wood trim and a bluestone spiral staircase
that goes up and up and up. It’s a modern facility with a hefty mission: to serve as the University’s living room.

Elrod, W&Ls 22nd president, often spoke of the need for a public space
that brought together all members of the University in a family atmosphere.
He strongly believed that a commons would serve that purpose well.

“The academic heart of this University is the conversation that occurs daily
in a myriad of different ways among its faculty and students,” he once wrote
to the Board of ‘Trustees. “The more refined the conversation that occurs
about things that really matter, the more likely it will be that our graduates will
become the leaders in their professions and communities and who, as alumni,
will continue to distinguish this University in the nation as they have done in

ei

its notable past.”

‘The idea of a University commons is not new. As early as the 1960s, and
every decade since, the board and administration have discussed such a
project, but the building always took a backseat to other, equally important
priorities. But this time, the Elrod Commons was the number-one bricks-
and-mortar goal of the capital campaign.

Elrod’s dream, now firmly established in concrete, anchors several recent
University projects that have dramatically changed the environs. The Woods
Creek side of the campus is a much livelier place, as people walk to and from
the sororities, the parking garage, the fitness center and, of course, the Elrod
Commons.

Initially, many people wondered if anyone, particularly students, would
use such a facility. Mimi Milner Elrod noted this in her remarks at the

 

20 WSL “Aol U Man 4 6: AsGese on

 

Mimi Elrod, here
taking a bre:
Gommons, says, “I have
received notes from many
faculty members who have
said that every time they
walk throu;
they think of John and his
inspiration for this building.”

Elrod Commons dedication ceremony on Oct. 24, 2003. “Late
one afternoon, John came home with a stack of proposals from
hitects, and he told me that the committee had agreed

_ We looked at the plan together, and he was so excited

t,” she said. “As I sat there that day, I remembered all
liscussions with others about the building—to tunnel or

 

unnel underneath, the fitness center and a host of other
issues. Someone would worry and say, “What if we build this
building and nobody comes?’ ‘They clearly did not need to
worry. | look around at all the people who were in the
Commons the other day, not just faculty and students, but
people from all parts of our campus, and I thought—this
buildir
John Elrod’s portrait, unveiled at the dedication ceremony,

y has done exactly what it was meant to do.”

 

eraces a room on the first floor of the Elrod Commons filled

with sofas, upholstered chairs and small tables; it is, in essence,
the living room of the building. From his perch above the fire-

 

place, he’s smiling down on a lot of conversations.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

k in the Elrod

the commons,

 

NOLONIWGUM NiAGY |G $0100 g

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  

 

The Marketplace’s gleaming

: expanse offers enticing and varied
academic

heart of this
University
is the
conversation
that occurs
daily ina
myriad of
The eens
eh
among its
faculty and
students.”

menus served cafeteria-style.

 

Ne aaa
John Elrod
(1940-2001)

Students flock to computer
stations in the Elrod Commons to

 
 

check e-mail and Web sites.

 

 

 

 

Oi1ilO0 Hd

Ad

aotiatyvd

A i. gd NIH

«

4a a NIA dD

oN LOA

NO LL

 

ton Ee i tL RR Op i O MM ON §S I? © Ot GC A Et ON

 

 

 

On Oct. 24, board
members, students, staff,
faculty and guests gathered
in the amphitheater on the
north side of the Elrod
Commons to celebrate the
dedication of the new
building. In the foreground,
bs mee 6 from left to right, incoming
a Rector Phil Norwood ’69,
: President ‘Tom Burish, out.
going Rector Frank Surface
and the Rev. William Klein
(partially hidden) listened
to Mimi Elrod take her turn
at the podium.

vy

WwW hatl/e i mel d
What’s Inside

 

commons.wlu.edu

Ce ee ee ee ee ee ee Se ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

= Dining Services, with outdoor patio

Alison Bell’91, assistant professor of anthropology, along with Imran Naeemullah 05,
Sean Devlin ’04 and Emily ‘Tyson 04, documented the creation of the Elrod
Commons through interviews with the people who worked on it—everyone
from W&L administrators and architects to the project managers and stonemasons. a Café

# 189-seat cinema/auditorium

= 43-seat lounge

You can read the transcripts of these interviews at culture.wlu.edu/commons. = Game room/television lounge
= Women’s Resource Center
= Dean of Students

@ Career Services

 

= Bookstore

= Student organizations’ offices
= Conference/study rooms

= Non-denominational chapel

= Security

The Elrod family posed with the
portrait after the unveiling. From left to right:
Mimi Elrod, son Adam Elrod, daughter-in-law
Francile and her husband, Joshua Elrod.

 

oe Wel AlLUMA I MAGAZIE@

 

 

66 liberal arts education is the best background for any-

thing,” says Philip W. Norwood ’69, who began a three-

year term as the University’s rector in October 2003. A

walking advertisement for that statement, he possess-

es a W&L English degree (with honors), an M.A. in

the same subject and a law degree. He parlayed his

education into his first career, as a lawyer specializing

in corporate litigation, and into his second and cur-

rent career, in commercial real estate. ‘loday he is president and

chief executive officer of Faison

Enterprises, one of the largest real

estate development and investment

management firms on the East Coast.

He joined the Board of ‘Irustees in

1997. From this vantage point, he

observes, “an effective college educa-

tion at Washington and Lee these days

requires a great deal more than a

blackboard, some desks and some
books.”

Prior to his election as rector,
Norwood served a four-year stint as
chair of the board’s Capital Projects
Committee. He brought to the job 23
years of experience in overseeing the
design, construction, financing and
marketing of real estate develop-
ments, and his fellow trustees found
invaluable his ability to convey in a
clear and understandable manner the
complexities of a construction project.

As chair of that committee,
Norwood also advised the University
on a number of significant building
projects that have transformed the
campus. ‘he state-of-the-art renova-
tions of Reid Hall ensure that journal-
ism students will possess equally
state-of-the-art skills. “The showcase
Doremus Fitness Center produces
better-conditioned athletes as well as healthier students in gen-
eral. ‘he Cap’n Dick Smith baseball stadium surely deserves a
Share of the credit for four recent winning seasons. And the
brand-new John W. Elrod University Commons, just a few
months old, is teeming with activity involving the entire
University community as together students, faculty and staff eat
meals, study, watch movies, use computers, buy books, get
Career counseling and converse. Despite his penchant for such
bricks-and-mortar projects, Norwood embraces Washington
and [.ee’s more intangible attributes.

Born in Tallahassee, Fla., he grew up there and in
Bethesda, Md.; by the time he hit the college years, his family
was living in Atlanta. He credits his late father, William
Norwood, for encouraging him to consider the University back

wood

by Gathy Eberly

PHIL NORWOOD ’69 JOINED
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
IN 1997 AND WILL SERVE A
THREE-YEAR TERM AS RECTOR.

 

in 1965. His older siblings had attended the University of
Georgia, but his father regarded W&L as the “Harvard of the
South” and thought it might best suit his younger son. “I was
a pretty unformed young man with lots of energy and not
much idea of what I wanted to do,” he recalls with a laugh.
“T looked at all sorts of colleges, large and small, public and pri-
vate, before following my father’s suggestion and visiting
Washington and Lee. I think he figured its intimate size
and all-male environment might help me focus on my studies
and get more involved in sports and
extracurricular activities. And you
know what? He was absolutely right.”

Once Norwood learned even more
about W&l—attractions such as the
honor system, the close-knit atmos-
phere and the pastoral setting—he
was sold. “It’s important to under-
stand what your parents want you to
do,” he says about deciding on a col-
lege, “but equally important to
understand what you want to do.”

‘The newcomer initially found
W&L somewhat intimidating. His
first college class was during the peak
of September rush week: History 106,
taught at 8:25 a.m. by the famed Dean
James G. Leyburn. “I’m pretty sure |
was the only freshman in the class,” he
recalls. “Everyone called him ‘Zeus’
because he was such a commanding
presence. Sitting there in awe as he
lectured on the ancient Greeks, I real-
ized I was in the big leagues.” He is
pleased that years later, W&L named
the library after Leyburn, whom he
calls a “powerful, powerful professor.”

Norwood reveled in the challenging
classes and the close relationships he
developed with his teachers. He
became an English major “somewhat
by default,” he remembers. His parents, especially his mother,
May Norwood, had passed their love of literature on to their
son. Immersion 1n the heady environment of books and learning
at W&L “struck the right chord with me.” With encouragement
from memorable faculty such as James Boatwright III, Sidney
Coulling ’46, John Evans, H. Robert Huntley and George Ray,
he took every English course he could fit in, plus substantial
coursework in European history.

But he didn’t spend all of his time in the library. In addition
to serving as an officer of Phi Delta ‘Theta fraternity, he was
captain of the track team, vice-president of Fancy Dress Ball
and a staff member of 74e Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx.

As his senior year drew to a close, Norwood couldn’t decide
what to do next. He pondered the law, a career many relatives

 

ed No TAE Ras @0-0c6

£3

had pursued, but it didn’t yet call to him. Service in Vietnam
called too; a college sports injury ended up disqualifying him. So
he gratefully decided to accept the advice and assistance of his
English professors and enter graduate school at Duke
University. His goal: a Ph.D. in English, then on to college
teaching, preferably at his alma mater.

Once Norwood’s studies were underway at Duke, he
found an “antiseptic” environment that failed to measure up
to the magic of learning at W&L. His father, shall we say,
strongly encouraged him to finish at least an
M.A., which he did in an accelerated course
of one year and one summer. Broke and in
need of a job, he joined a management train-
ing program at Southern Bell Telephone on
the advice of an uncle and worked there for
two years. Law finally called to him loud and
clear, so Norwood entered law school at the
University of Georgia.

His liberal arts background proved a stur-
dy one. In fact, when it comes to preparing
for law school, Norwood says, “I can’t think
of a better major than English.” He finds
that both disciplines require understanding
complex material, organizing one’s thoughts
and expressing them clearly—“not so differ-
ent from an undergraduate exam in
English.” He thoroughly enjoyed his studies, graduated cum
laude, and then joined a law firm in Birmingham, Ala., where
he specialized in corporate litigation.

After several years as an attorney, Norwood turned a rela-
tionship with one of his clients into a job with the Washington
office of “Irammell Crow Company, the mammoth commer-
cial real estate development firm. With a wife, Marianne, and
three small daughters (Elizabeth, now 27, and twins Hope
and Dalton, now 25), it was a risky move. “I took a gamble,”
he says, and so did ‘Trammell Crow. It paid off: “I found what
my life’s work would be.”

Once again, Norwood’s W&L education, with its emphasis
on logical thinking and a broad perspective, came into play. He
can hire all the technical experts he needs, he says, “but at the
end of the day, running an organization simply requires organi-
zational skills, and the greatest of these is the ability to com-
municate well.” Norwood was a senior partner in the firm for
13 years, frequently working directly with the founder,
‘Trammell Crow himself. From 1985-1992, he also served as
president of ‘Irammell Crow Real Estate Investors, a real
estate investment trust listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. In 1994, he moved to Charlotte to head Faison.

Norwood also began to put his skills to work for Washington
and Lee. ‘Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, he had enjoyed
reunions and homecomings. At the same time, living in places
like Atlanta, Jacksonville, Birmingham, Washington and Dallas,
he always found the alumni chapters packed with friends ready
to offer help and connections. “More than ever, I felt continu-

“We are
oom a ea:
to have an

administration
aie h am Aen ha ee ae
involve and
embrace the
trustees,
and the trustees
know the
administration
wants a lot out
of them.”

—Rector Phil Norwood ’69

 

ally bonded to W&L,” he says. Around 1990, he was asked to
help with the Annual Fund. That task and its accompanying
in-depth visits to campus “lit a spark,” he remembers.

He also saw how a controversial change was affecting W&L.,
“Coeducation had raised the bar,” he says, “and brought better
and brighter kids to campus.” After serving as a class agent, he
chaired his class’ 25th-reunion fund-raising effort. The class
giftr A scholarship in honor of James G. Leyburn. “I had always
been so grateful to W&L,” he says, and now he welcomed the
chance to express that gratitude through service
on the Williams School Advisory Board and then
on the Board of ‘Irustees.

Before he joined the board, he says, “]
didn’t know how it operated. What did the rec-
tor do? What was the board’s relationship
to the president? I didn’t have a very clear
conception except for the board’s work on
periodic capital campaigns. I also wondered if
there was a strong fiduciary focus apart from
the philanthropic responsibility.”

Norwood soon learned that the board
handled all that—and more. “I was so
impressed by the breadth of skills the
trustees brought to bear,” he says, to their
committee assignments and to their dealings
with the president, senior staff, adminis-
trators, faculty, students, operations, physical plant, athletics
and social life, in addition to overseeing the budget and the
endowment. In his previous experience with boards of other
institutions, he had found friction between the volunteers and
the administration. “But at W&L, we don’t have that ten-
sion,” he reports. “Instead we have trust, cooperation, a
feeling of community and a devotion to service.”

He also observes that “most nonprofit boards are
lectured to by staff and allowed to feel self-satisfied in
exchange for their financial patronage,” he says. “We are
fortunate to have an administration that wants to involve and
embrace the trustees, and the trustees know the adminis-
tration wants a lot out of them.”

Norwood is pleased that current students are interested in
the board, as he discovered through discussions with several
undergraduates during a recent visit to campus. “I want them to
know that the board is not a remote group of mostly middle-
aged white men whose generosity to their alma mater has been
rewarded with a ceremonial role,” he says. “The reality is that
we're a bunch of working stiffs who love this place and view our
roles on the board as a higher calling.”

Furthermore, “we are striving to make the board more
representative of our alumni base, as well as of society at
large,” he says, pointing to such recent additions to the board
as Alston Parker Watt 89, the first female undergraduate
member, and Jorge Estrada ’69, from Buenos Aires, Argentina.
“In fact, I see the evolving board becoming more diverse and
less regional over time.”

 

24

Wwe © A 1.0 MeN MAGA ZT ia

 

 

 

ON OcT. 24, 2003, A BRISK AND BEAUTIFUL FALL
DAY, RECTOR PHIL NORWOOD ’69 SPOKE AT THE
DEDICATION OF THE JOHN W. ELROD UNIVERSITY

COMMONS. OF THE NEW BUILDING AND THE

CONTRIBUTIONS OF EVERYONE INVOLVED, NORWOOD

SAID, “I AM BURSTING WITH PRIDE TODAY.”

In his new role as rector, “I plan to be visible,” Norwood
says. “The job is not in the least bit ceremonial.” He finds
his organizational and management experience at a premium
as he constantly weighs issues for their content and timeliness,
directs committees and makes crucial decisions. Never-
theless, he says, “We will continue to operate by consensus,
with engagement, unity and civility.”

He has nothing but praise for his predecessor, Frank
Surface ’60, who served as W&Ls rector from 1997-2003. “He
is the most outstanding leader of a nonprofit organization that
I’ve ever seen,” says Norwood. “He put all his energies into
the job, and we are enormous beneficiaries.” Another role
model—in addition to his father—is his former boss,
‘Trammell Crow. “He said that all leaders are servants,” he
reports, an attitude that Norwood takes to heart.

As for Surface, he treasures a good working relationship with
Norwood. He thinks W&L has the right person for the rector’s
job. “Phil Norwood is a smart and thoughtful leader who has
already rendered invaluable service to Washington and Lee,”
he says. “He will be a good partner and advisor for our presi-
dent, provide positive direction for the Board of ‘Irustees and
relate well to all of the University’s constituencies.”

Norwood plans to preserve the board’s role as caretaker

of the institution’s cultures and traditions—with both eyes
fixed firmly on the future. “The University has long focused
on the relationship between the student and teacher, and we
must remember and honor that,” he says. “However, we
have to ensure the quality of our physical plant is commen-
surate with the level of excellence of the rest of the institu-
tion. We have to ensure that our facilities and other programs
keep us competitive in the top tier of liberal arts colleges
and national law schools.”

In his view, the successful conclusion of the Campaign for
the Rising Generation is but the latest step in the University’s
ongoing efforts to preserve its rich traditions and retain its
rightful place in an increasingly competitive marketplace. “I
see this time as sort of a comma in the middle of a long sen-
tence. Our efforts to continuously improve Washington and
Lee cannot end.”

As for the new construction and other developments of the
last few years since the implementation of the strategic plan,
Norwood thinks “we have accomplished things we couldn’t
have imagined and made a great place even greater.” He looks
forward to wielding a shovel at the upcoming groundbreaking of
Wilson Hall, the much-needed art and music building. After
that, he says, “comes a whole new range of projects, mostly ren-
ovation and remodeling,” such as the current improvements to
the Colonnade. When the new rector visits campus these days,
he says, “I feel renewed in a different way every time.”

There are signs that Norwood’s connection with the
University will continue for years to come. ‘The new rector
lives within easy driving distance of campus on a farm near
Charlotte. He and Marianne have five horses, including an
American Saddlebred he calls “my best friend,” and his wife
runs their agricultural operation, “one of only two certified
organic farms in the area,” he reports. She sells produce to
nearby commercial establishments as well as to several fami-
lies who invest at the beginning of the season and enjoy fresh
fruit and vegetables throughout a seven-month growing
season. When he’s not running Faison Enterprises, leading
the W&L board or riding horses on his farm, the English
major remains a devoted reader.

Daughters Dalton and Elizabeth both worked for him for
short stints but decided commercial real estate “was not their
cup of tea,” he laughs. Elizabeth graduated from Williams
College in 1998, and Norwood just became a father-in-law with
her recent marriage. Hope, with a 2000 degree from Vanderbilt,
works at Sotheby’s in New York after receiving an M.FA. He is
watching Dalton follow in at least a couple of his footsteps. She
graduated from W&L in 2000 with a degree in English and 1s
currently a law student at the University of ‘Texas.

Norwood is glad Dalton had the opportunity to take
advantage of all the University has to offer. “I Know she real-
ly enjoyed her experience in Lexington,” he says. “For my
part, I can’t imagine what direction my life would have taken
had I not chosen Washington and Lee.”

For its part, Washington and Lee 1s glad he did. +

 

W-isNhhbhew BO ew

eS

awn Watkins ought to be about 50 years old by now,
given her rise from humble jobs to influential positions
in higher education. She challenged the norm in college
career timelines when she left an associate deanship at
Guilford College, N.C., in 2001 to become dean of fresh-
men at Washington and Lee University. Last summer, Watkins
surpassed that career timeline and bested four national
finalists to become W&Ls first woman dean of students.

At age 35 when she took the post, Watkins is one of the
youngest deans to hold one of the hottest seats in the daily life
of a major university. She’s also among about 10 women to hold
student-affairs deanships at the top 25 liberal arts colleges as
ranked by U.S. News and World Report.

“It is very difficult to find somebody, male or female, who,
by age 35, has successfully completed a doctorate degree and
has the kind of experience to move into a senior position,” said
Margaret-Ann Radford-Wedemeyer, a student affairs official at
Gettysburg College and chair of the advisory board of the
Center for Women at the National Association of Student
Personnel Administrators. “It is unique for someone at that age
to accomplish both of these.”

“This is what Pve been working for, but it took a lot of soul-
searching professionally and personally,” Watkins says of her
decision to seek the deanship. “Frankly, my appointment still

DEFYING

MANO ee

=XPECTATI<

Cc a a ‘pty Fd
>» TUDE

by Ethan Jameson 06
and Ruth §. Intress

DAWN WATKINS, DEAN OF STUDI
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVER

 

shocks me.” She viewed her age, not her gender, as a possible
roadblock. “When I was in graduate school, the expectation to
be a dean of students was that you were looking at age 45 to
50. ‘That was the timeline.

“[’m appreciative of the women here and elsewhere who
opened the doors,” she adds. “Without them, I don’t think a
woman could have been considered a dean of students. It isn’t
anything remarkable about me; it’s the doors others opened.”

Watkins was born in New Jersey and grew up in Florida,
moving to Christiansburg, Va., in time for high school. Her
older sister was the high academic achiever. Watkins, born
the middle of three girls, was more than content with earning
B’s and having fun in high school, prompting a relative to
chastise her for not taking cosmetology classes to ensure
employment. “Other than wanting to work with people, as
trite as that sounds, I had no idea what I was going to do,” she
says of her days at Christiansburg High School. “I certainly
didn’t try to set any records.”

As an undergraduate at Virginia ‘Tech, Watkins studied
English, history and education—only to discover she hated
classroom teaching. “My mother was furious,” Watkins
recalled. “In my family, you were financially on your own
after four years of college. I assured my mother I'd get a job,
I just didn’t know in what.”

 

26

Ww & 5 A LU M M1 MAGA ZI

Soon after, Watkins happened upon
an advertisement for a residence hall
director at Bridgewater College. She
landed the position, free housing and a
salary of $13,000. That was in 1990. Since
then, Watkins has worked her way
through six ever-advancing positions in
continuing education, student affairs,
campus activities and event planning at
four schools including Virginia ‘Tech,
Guilford and W&L.

At the same time, she labored nights
and weekends to earn an M.A. in educa-
tion, counseling and student personnel
services from Virginia Tech in 1994. In the
midst of becoming a mother (daughter
Jillian is now 4), Watkins continued that
pace of work and study through last year, when she completed
her Ph.D. in adult and higher education administration from the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro.

Watkins attributes her rise to hard work, good fortune, her
13-year marriage (to John Watkins, a W&L technology
integration specialist) and her natural ability to move forward
in life. “Change has not been hard for me,” she said. “I don’t
dwell on things.”

Instead, she thrives on the daily fires she must put out. As
dean of students, Watkins manages a staff of more than 50, over-
sees a budget exceeding $600,000 annually and works with the
University’s president and board of trustees on issues from
expanding diversity on campus to stemming alcohol abuse.

Harder yet are the life-changing decisions she must help
render involving students whose unacceptable behavior, acad-
emic failings or violations of W&Ls
student-run Honor System result in
dismissal from the University. ‘Uhe
decisions are even more difficult,
because Watkins personally knows
most W&L undergraduates.

“One of my fears is that students
won’t seek me out as much,” Watkins
said of her promotion. “But I plan to
get out there and continue activities,
such as the annual bridge Jump into
the James River, so I can have an
opportunity to really get to know stu-
dents outside the office.”

A top issue Watkins plans to
address is abuse of alochol among
students, which she says 1s a persis-
tent problem at W&L and many
other colleges across the country. “If
students are going to participate in
adult behavior, they have to act like
responsible adults,” she says. “We

 

 

must help students understand they have
a responsibility to themselves and others
to think seriously about alcohol abuse. If
they see another student struggling, it’s
their responsibility to help them.”

It is her responsibility, in turn, to
spearhead ways W&L can enhance informal,
experiential learning among students from
varied cultural, financial, social and religious
backgrounds in the U.S. and about 35 other
countries. The new dean considers herself
and student affairs personnel as teachers—
not administrators. “When we’re organizing
events, making residence hall room assign-
ments, planning activities—it’s all about
education outside the classroom supple-
menting what’s in the classroom,” she says.
“What we do is not always obvious but is aimed at subtly making
sure the academic experience is the most rewarding it can be.”

The tone of Watkins’ deanship was swiftly influenced by
her division’s move from the Colonnade to the John W. Elrod
University Commons. “The commons offers an entirely new
approach to student activities,” she says. “It really is a family
room for the University. It’s a chance for people to come
together in ways they may not have.”

The Watkinses’ own home is not far from the commons.
The family now lives in the historic Lee-Jackson House, the
traditional residence of the dean of students. “John and I are
still stunned about living here,” she says of their new abode,
which once housed Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson and W&L
President Robert E. Lee. “We wonder—when was the last
time a little kid ran through it?” +

ae

ee

THE WATKINSES ARE THE LATEST FAMILY TO MAKE THEMSELVES AT HOME IN
A RESIDENCE THAT HAS ALSO HOUSED THE FAMILIES OF ROBERT E. LEE,
STONEWALL JACKSON AND MANY OTHER PEOPLE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
UNIVERSITY. LEFT TO RIGHT: JOHN, JILLIAN AND DAWN CHECK OUT
JILLIAN’S IMPRESSIVE SKILLS WITH LEGOS IN THE KITCHEN.

 

W 1NeTcE Re 2G Owe

ai

 

Peyton Williams '97

leaching in the Real World

Gets an Education

Peyton Williams’ last year of teaching was as difficult as his first.
‘The lesson plans the 1997 alumnus developed at another school
were useless in his new job. Some of his students barely spoke
English. Only two working computers meant the entire school
had to share them, and making photocopies
meant going to another facility.

‘Those were just a few of the hurdles he
had to jump at the Academy for Careers in
Sports High School in South Bronx, N.Y. He
went from teaching well-to-do, college-bound
boarding students at Virginia’s Woodberry
Forest School to inner-city youth of various eth-
nic backgrounds for whom going to college is
the exception, not the rule.

In fact, the academy’s principal, Santiago
‘Taveras, said that he didn’t think someone with
Williams’ background would survive such a
tough environment. ‘The academy is one of 10
themed schools that opened in the Bronx in
2002 to replace large, failing high schools with
smaller, independent programs. Sponsored by a
public-private partnership, the schools center
their curricula around specific topics such as
sports, medicine, music, visual arts, theater,
aeronautics and technology. By focusing on top-
ics that interest their students and by teaching
in small settings, the schools hope to improve the
quality of education as well as raise the level of achievement.

“Its vision 1s to get kids interested in school by using sports
as a vehicle,” says Williams. “Through interdisciplinary classes,
we show them how what they’re learning in school applies to the
real world.”

While Williams helped write the school’s mission statement,
he found putting it to work wasn’t as easy. “In the beginning it
was hard for me to understand that school is
such a small part of the lives of these students,”
he explains. “The challenge of teaching in this
environment is that no matter how much expe-
rience you have or how good of a teacher you
are, every day you are forced to balance a class-
room of 20 students with so many issues.”

‘To deal with the situation as well as the
vast difference in ability among his students,
Williams focused his curriculum on designing a

Fe Wren tee” ee ie ee ee

“The concept of schools
like ours is working and

taking hold, and | truly

believe it is the future of

education.”

—PEYTON WILLIAMS ’97

 

sports complex for the Bronx. He taught reading; math and sci-
ence to students with a range of skill levels by assigning some
pupils to work on a budget, others to determine what kind of
facilities to include and another group to write the presentation
pitch. In effect, Williams created a lesson plan for each student.

Students responded positively. Many feel that their writing
skills have improved and some have developed a love of reading,
‘Those who initially fought the school’s dress code have accepted
it and see it as a symbol of their ability to represent themselves
professionally in their internships.

While the challenges and rewards of the past year were
great, Williams didn’t return to the classroom last fall. Instead, he

PEYTON WILLIAMS, LEFT, AND SOME OF HIS
FRIENDS AT THE ACADEMY FOR CAREERS IN
ee Oe ee wee el

 

works for one of the school’s sponsors, writing grants and raising
$10 million to continue the mission of rebuilding New York’s
public schools.

“The concept of schools like ours is working and taking
hold, and I truly believe it is the future of education,” says
Williams. “I will really miss teaching, but I hope that in this new
job I will be able to help even more students.” Although he’s no
longer in the classroom, he helps his former
pupils on weekends, when he coaches their
football team.

“In the end, I understand why ‘laveras
was biased against me when I applied to teach
here,” he concludes. “I think that I proved
him wrong. I developed some amazing rela-
tionships with my students and had a very suc-

cessful class.”
—Wendy Lovell °90

 

28

Wat ye eee MAGA Z4 a

 

 

 

 

1935

william B. Bagbey

retired from the National D-Day
Memorial Foundation board in
June 2003, after 16 years of Service.

1942

Dougald M. Monroe Jr.

has settled into a retirement com-
munity in Durham, N.C., after the
passing of his wife, Dorothy, in
November 2001. He is in good
health and says his new home pro-
vides him enough connection with
Duke University and _ the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill to give his residence
the flavor of academia, where “I
have spent all my working life.”

1943

Albert D. Darby Jr.

broke a bone in his foot and under-
went rehabilitation at Heartland
Nursing Home. He lives in Martins-

ville, Va.
1944

Richard L. Heard

is recovering from a medical ail-
ment that occurred in May 2000.
His activities are still limited, but
he is making steady improvement.

1946

Donald S. Hillman

visited Italy in July and stayed at a
lovely hilltop villa in Marcialla,
which overlooks the magnificent
‘Tuscan Elsa Valley. He also visited
San Gimignano, Lucca, Pisa,
Florence and Siena, and says they
were “fantastico!”

1948

Thomas A. Scott Jr.

broke his hip in January 2003. He
is now a patient at Pheasant Ridge
Nursing Home in Roanoke.

1949

L. Vernon Snyder

remains in Lexington and enjoys
the many benefits of living in close
proximity to his alma mater, includ-
ing the library and all sports.

The Hon. John W. Warner
received the Doctor of Laws (hon-
Oris causa) on May 17, 2003, at
Virginia Wesleyan College’s 34th
commencement.

1950

C. Samuel Engle

is still farming, housekeeping and
“wishing the Honor System as we
knew it in 1950 applied to all walks
of life.”

a

Frank Love Jr. ('51L)

retired from Powell, Goldstein,
Frazer and Murphy in January
1998, where he was engaged in dis-
pute resolution as a mediator and
arbitrator.

Christopher S. Moore

and wife Pat celebrated their 40th
wedding anniversary in August
2003. ‘They live in Williams-

burg, Va.
1951

Landon W. Trigg

suffered a stroke in 1997. He
enjoys a quiet life looking at a pret-
ty creek just off the Chesapeake
Bay in Kilmarnock, Va.

Richard E. Whitson Jr.

continues to boat around the
Chesapeake Bay area and enjoys
spending time with his grand-
daughters. He lives in Norfolk, Va.

a6

Paul D. Weill

enjoys retirement. He works part-
time to keep busy and spends time
with his five grandchildren. He
lives in Weatogue, Conn.

1954

James C. Conner

enjoys retirement in his new home
in the Pacific Northwest. He is
coaching boys’ lacrosse and having
a blast. He looks forward to his
50th reunion. Conner and his wife,
Karla, live in Aloha, Ore.

Anthony Valen
was elected presiding judge of the
12th District Court of Appeals.

1939

Frederic M. Bryant Ill
retired from Alex Brown and Sons
after 35 years. He has launched a
new career as an artist, specializing
in oils and watercolors.

1956

Charles E. Dobbs

retired from hematology/oncology
practice in July, after 38 years. His
retirement plans include garden-
ing, travel and spending time with
his grandchildren.

J.M.C. Crandpierre

lives in France and says, “Please
tell my W&L classmates that,
more than ever, I fully trust
President Bush after all he has
done since Sept. 11, 2001.”

 

1957

Charles F. Davis (’59L) |
and his wife, Judi, plus three chil-
dren and five grandchildren, are all
doing well. Fortunately, he retired
with over 600,000 bonus air miles
and is able to travel extensively
and not pay for it.

1958

S. Scott Whipple

received an Excellence’ in
Journalism second-place award
from the Connecticut Chapter of
the Society of Professional
Journalists for his 2002 coverage of
the Fifth Congressional race
between U.S. Rep. Nancy Johnson
and Jim Maloney. He won a first
place for his column, “Urgent
Business Relationship Request-
ed,” about a Nigerian investment
scam. He is a staff writer for New
Britain Herald and Sunday Herald
Press and also writes a weekly col-
umn, “Business Scene.”

1959

Theodore R. McKeldin Jr.
reports that his daughter gave birth
to his first grandson in March 2003.
He and his wife are excited to have
one of both. His son, a Marine
major as an activated reservist,
returned safely home on Memorial
Day after four months at Marine
headquarters in Kuwait.

1960

Malcolm B. Burton (’63L)
retired on July 1, 2003, after 40
years with Chubb. He lives in
Manahawkin, N.].

Charles S. Chamberlin

is vice president of Pinnacle
Capital Group in commercial real
estate and investment banking.
He lives in Simsbury, Conn.

1962

The Hon. Charles R.

Butler Jr.
received the 2003 Judicial Award

Think Snow!

If you think getting together with the W&L gang is limit-
ed to Alumni Weekend and Homecoming in Lexington,

think again. The Fourth Annual Minks
on the Moguls ski trip is right around

the corner—Feb. 25-29, 2004. Plan 6
now to join the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association for a

weekend of skiing, snowboard-
ing and fun at Colorado’s

Keystone Resort.

Keystone will deliver
on the thrills for skiers with

   
 
 
 
 

three mountains of steeps,

 

bowls, bumps and _ glades.
For snowboarders, there’s an

expanded terrain park featuring 51 rails, fun boxes and a
super pipe. All are open day and night. For those who want
merely to relax, there are plenty of breathtaking views, vil-
lage shops and restaurants for all tastes. W&L will deliver on
entertaining gatherings, friendly competition on the race
course and good company, of course.

Minks on the Moguls offers a great way to reconnect
with your classmates and friends, get away with (or from)
your family and have a fun-filled weekend. Packages
include lodging, lift tickets, some group entertaining and
dining. To reserve your spot or for more information, contact

the Alumni Office, 540/458-8464.

 

Wi TARA BO Oem

wey

 

 

 

Arthur A. Birney '50, '52L was deeply moved when, as a freshman, he learned that
George Washington’s original gift of canal stock to the school that would become W&L,
covered several hundred dollars of his tuition. A long-time
admirer of the first president of the United States, Birney
was amazed by the reach of Washington’s gift and chose to
follow in his footsteps by helping others come to
Washington and Lee.

“None of us really pays our own way in life,” Birney
explains. “We benefit from the work of others in many ways.
Many people feel humbled by the gifts of others and want
to give back, too.”

In 1986, the Washington native and resident established
the Arthur A. Birney Scholarship to help future generations
of Washington and Lee students get their education. The
scholarship has benefited both undergraduate and law stu-
dents and stresses the importance of good citizenship and

 

leadership in its recipients.

“Character is important to me and I’ve tried to impart this to my sons,” says the
W&L trustee emeritus. “We all have to make the world a little bit better, and it’s a great
joy to me to help W&L students in some small way.”

In addition to his outright gifts to create the scholarship, Birney has found a way to
make the stock market work for him—and for Washington and Lee. Using long-term,

appreciated stock, he set up a charitable remain-
> der unitrust, which provides him with income
for his and his wife’s lifetimes. When the
Birneys have passed on, the trust’s principal,
interest and appreciated value will significantly

“We all have to make the
world a little bit better,
and it’s a great joy to me

to help W&L students in

”

une
eons

Saas

sikslonomeeeris
as
.

 

enhance the scholarship endowment.
The benefits include lifetime income from
the unitrust, an immediate income-tax deduc-

some small way.

 

—ARTHUR A. BIRNEY ’50, ’52L :
tion and avoidance of capital-gains taxes on the

stock transfer. More important, Birney knows
that the scholarship will grow substantially and one day be of even greater assistance to
W&L students.

Life income gifts such as charitable remainder trusts, charitable gift annuities and
pooled income funds offer significant opportunities to advance philanthropic interests,
while recognizing the needs of many individuals and couples for income from the assets
that would be involved in a gift transaction. In many Cases, it is possible to realize sub-
stantially greater income from life income gifts than from long-term, appreciated assets.

As director of planned giving for Washington and Lee University, I have the pleasure
of working with individuals like Art Birney to realize their lifetime goals, such as giving
something back to Washington and Lee and making it possible for others to benefit from
attending.

For more information on the various ways you can provide for W&L, please visit the
W&L Web site (support.wlu.edu, click on Planned Giving) or contact Sue Woodruff,
planned giving administrator, or Hank Humphreys, director of planned giving. We can be
reached at 540/458-8421, swoodruff@wlu.edu or ahumphreys@wlu.edu.

—Hank Humphreys with Wendy Lovell ’90

of Merit from ‘the Alabama State
Bar. He lives in Mobile, Ala.

Allyn D. Kantor

has been elected to the State Bar of
Michigan’s board of commissioners,
He will serve a three-year term, rep-
resenting District G, which in-
cludes Jackson, Lenaweee, Mon-
roe and Washtenaw counties. The
board of commissioners acts as the
primary managing body for the bar
and sets policy between meetings
of the Representative Assembly.
He resides in Ann Arbor, Mich.

1963

Clarence Renshaw II
attended a reunion of former
Roanoke WDBJ radio and TY
employees. Many W&L journal-
ism department graduates attend-
ed, including Donald Murray 48
and Lloyd Dobyns ’57, not to
mention retired Professor Ron
McDonald, and many other gradu-
ates from more recent years, with
the host, Robert Fishburn ’55, wel-
coming everyone.

Stephen H. Stull

is working on emerging market
financial sector development for a
new project in Afghanistan for the
U.S. Agency for International
Development.

1964

F. William Burke (’67L)

was appointed the executive direc-
tor of the Mary and Daniel Lough-
ran Foundation in Washington.

Brice R. Gamber

retired in the spring of 2002. He
enjoys hunting with his sons, carv-
ing waterfowl and spending time
with his three grandchildren, who
are all under the age of three. He
lives in Royal Oak, Md.

1965

Dr. Mark C. Haeberle

and wife, Noel, celebrated their
35th wedding anniversary in June
2003. Son Drew graduated from
Mercer Law School in 2002 and
practices in Macon, Ga. Will
received his M.B.A. from Xavier
and works as PriceWaterhouse
Coopers in Ohio. Youngest son,
‘Tye, is a freshman at Washington
and Lee and daughter, Caroline, is
a sophomore and the class presi-
dent at the Foxcroft School. The
Haeberles live in Ashland, Ky.

James W. Jennings Jr. ('72L )
is included in the 2003-04 edition

 

30 W &

i

A LU MN

MAGA ZI oe

 

 

of Best Lawyers in America for his
work as a personal injury attorney.
He is member of Woods, Rogers &
Hazelgrove in Roanoke.

s. Reed Paynter

rook early retirement from
DuPont, and he and his wife, Joan,
started a resort services business on
the Outer Banks of North
Carolina. However, it grew to be
larger than expected and they sold
it last September. He says the next
venture will be more relaxed, leav-
ing time for boating and golf. ‘They
live in Manteo, N.C.

Charles A. Sweet Jr.

has taught English at Eastern
Kentucky University for 33 years
and is now department chair. He
publishes stories under the pseudo-
nym Hal Charles in EWery Queens
Mystery Magazine and in Bloody
Ground, his own collection.

1966

Frank A. Bailey Ill

is expecting a fifth grandchild. He
is a member of a businessmen’s
club in Fort Worth, Texas, with
150 others, 10 percent of whom
either went to Washington or Lee
or have children who attended.

196/

Lawrence J. Fisher Ill
operates a textile sales agency from
Guatemala City and Greenville,
S.C. He invites anyone doing busi-
ness in Central America to visit.

Edward B. Robertson Ir.
continues to work on the separation
of Visteon from Ford Motor Com-
pany. He hunts, plays tennis and
translates scientific research docu-
ments for the University of Cologne.
He lives in Germany and entertains
no thoughts of retirement.

Bradford A. Rochester
says there is no news to report, but
he did have the chance to meet
freshman Amanda Haines and
thinks she will make a fine mem-
ber of the W&L student body. He
lives in Eden, N.C.

1969

William J. Cook

and his wife, Thalia, welcomed
their second grandchild, Logan
Donald Cook, in May 2003.

1970

Richard C. Daughtrey
is vice president of CraftSystems
Inc., a 25-year-old company that

Eee

provides employment testing ser-
vices to Fortune 500 companies.
His clients include Hilton Hotels,
Shell Oil, Honeywell, Express
Personnel and Superior Financial
Group. He lives in Bradenton, F'la.,
with his wife, son and daughter.

Robert H. Yevich

retired from Wall Street in 2002.
He moved back to Virginia but also
spends time in St. Croix and
remains active as a private investor.

1971

William M. Jordan Ill

was honored for his fund-raising
efforts after participating in the
Leukemia and Lymphoma
Society’s Century 100-mile bike
ride around Lake ‘Tahoe. Many of
his fellow W&L alumni were gen-
erous donors. He is a cardiac anes-
thesiologist in Montgomery, Ala.

A. Cash Koeniger

contributed a chapter to Gary W.
Gallagher’s newest book, The
Shenandoah Valley Campaign of
1862, and was named to Who's
Who Among America’s ‘Teachers.
He was also awarded a Jackson-
Hope faculty development leave
by Virginia Military Institute. He ts
thrilled and honored to assume
duties as visiting professor of histo-

ry at W&L in 2003-2004.

 

la

Ridge Benton

retired from the Army Medical
Corps in 2000 and now works part-
time as a pathologist. Sons Will,
Josh and Chris graduated from col-
lege and youngest son, Noah, is a
high school junior. He and Susan
love life in New England.

Douglas H. Madison

has been named president of
Commonwealth Bank & ‘Trust Co.
in Kentucky.

1973

Nimrod W.E. Long Ill
completed his two-year term as
board president of the Black
Warrior-Cahaba_ Rivers Land
Trust. Over the last few years, the
trust has purchased more than 60
miles of river frontage and now
owns more than 3,300 acres in
Birmingham, Ala.

Michael C. Schaeffer

began his 24th season as coach of
the UNC Pembroke men’s soccer
team this fall. His coaching tenure
is the longest in school history. He
served as a clinician at the NCAA
Division II Soccer Championships
Youth Education Through Sports
program in December 2002.

19/4

James D. Farrar Jr.

was elected to SunTrust Bank’s
Augusta/Rockbridge advisory board.
The board represents Staunton,
Waynesboro and Lexington and
assists the bank with business devel-
opment and general oversight of the
local bank. He also is secretary of
Washington and Lee University and
senior assistant to the president.

Ceoffrey N. Nolan

is still in business with Berke
Wilson °75. Taylor Williams ’89 and
Kelly Martone "91 are also happily
employed with Wilson and Nolan.

1975

Matthew Krafft

is a cost consultant with Rubino
and McGeehin and frequently tes-
tifies in contract disputes. He is
currently advising the Mas-
sachusetts ‘Turnpike Authority on
the Big Dig’s central artery tunnel;
at $14.7 billion, it is the most cost-
ly civil construction project in
United States history. For fun, he
drives his 1931 Ford Model A
Deluxe Roadster.

Robert M. Lander Il

says his daughter, Candice, has
graduated from the University of
Colorado with a history degree. He
practices real estate law in

Wurstboro, Sullivan County, N.Y.

 

In 2003, several W&L alumni gathered in Dallas to celebrate 50th birthdays and to wish Larry Lyles
°75 good luck on his move to Stockholm, Sweden. From left to right: Mike Kurilecz ’76, Lyles, Murray
Holland ’75, Douglas Hunt 75, Bill Biesel °75, Tom Faulkner ’74, Randy Flink ’75, Tav Lupton °76
and David Smith ’74.

 

Wool oN: Tebow 2004

31

 

 

 

1976

Perry W. Bartsch Jr.

and his daughter, Christian,
enjoyed W&Ls three-day seminar,
“Finding Your Way ‘Through the
College Admissions Maze,” held
in June. ‘They learned a lot, and,
thought that once again, W&L
provided thorough information
and first-class speakers, led by Bill
Hartog, dean of admissions.

Paul J.B. Murphy Ill

was promoted to CEO of New
World Restaurant Group, which
owns and operates Einstein
Brothers Bagel Company and
brought in revenue of $399 million
in 2002. He lives in Evergreen,

Colo.
1978

Edward A. Funkhouser

is in his 20th year of service to the
Rockbridge County Sheriff's
Office. His daughter was recently
married and his son graduated
from Rockbridge County High
School in June.

Theodore Hissey Ill

was appointed as global brand
director for Southern Comfort. He
is working for Brown-Forman out
of Louisville, Ky.

K. Lee Howard

became editor of Marketplace, a
new Sunday magazine of 7he Day
newspaper, New London, Ct., in
March. Within a few months, it
was named Best Niche Publication
and Best in Show by a New
England advertising executives
association. He also writes a tennis
column and serves as a real estate
editor of 74e Day. Howard is father
and Little League coach to two
boys, Evan and Nathan. ‘They live
in Niantic, Conn.

1979

Dr. David M. Persson

and his wife, Irene, are proud
erandparents of Alyssa Renee,
born August 2002. Persson prac-
tices internal medicine at the
Highland Clinic in Shreveport,
La., where his wife is a neurologist.

1980

James E. Mendoza

joined the Home Depot’s strategic
business development group, in
Atlanta.

A kh WM NN POON Ew Ss

 

Alumni Jeopardize Their Futures

 

Trevor Norris '95 didn’t come away from the Jeopardy” ‘[ournament of Champions
in May 2003 with the grand prize, but he does treasure the experience of competing with
some of the brightest minds on television.

“I think most people like to play ‘Irivial Pursuit
or bar trivia or to yell out the answers while watching
‘Jeopardy’ at home,” says Norris. “Everybody likes to
have that ‘a-ha!’ moment when the correct answer
hits you.”

Norris’ “a-ha!” moments netted him $10,000 for
reaching the semifinals. He and his wife, Kim, trav-
eled to Thailand with part of his winnings. He won all
five of the first “Jeopardy” episodes he taped in 2001,
receiving $54,000, a Chevy ‘Tahoe and the ‘Tourna-
ment of Champions berth.

Norris attributes his success to his ability to focus
on the question at hand, not on the ones he missed.
“| think that many people miss a question and spend

 

the next minute beating themselves up for it,” he
says. “That’s a sure recipe for losing.”

Despite the heat of the split-second competition, Norris loved every minute of both
experiences and the challenge of developing his strategy. He found the show’s Web site
helpful and, in fact, struck up an online conversation with a former contestant, Brian
O’Riordan ’85, before discovering they both had attended W&L.

O’Riordan appeared on “Jeopardy” in June 2000, winning one game and $20,000. He
has W&L to thank for at least one of his correct answers. “The category was Statuary Hall,
referring to the statues representing the individual states in the Capitol Rotunda; the
answer that was revealed was simply “Robert E. Lee’; and the correct question was “What
is Virginiar’,” says O’ Riordan. “I remember thinking as I rang in to answer that | better get
the answer right, or Rob Mish in the Alumni Office would likely come and take my diplo-
ma back.”

Appearing on “Jeopardy” has professional side benefits for Norris, who recently
became a budget analyst for the under secretary of the Navy, in Washington. “It gives me
something to talk about when I am in a room full of senior military folks, executives and
presidential appointees before meetings,” he says. “I don’t have much in common with
them otherwise, so having that ‘Jeopardy’ crutch makes for great small talk before every-
thing turns to business.” His new position provides a new audience, too. “My old cowork-
ers were probably getting sick of hearing about it.”

‘The new job also provides a different opportunity. “I now work right across the hall
from the returning champion I| beat on my first appearance on ‘Jeopardy’,” Norris reports.
“He’s a really good-natured guy, so I get a kick out of ribbing him. He just passed the
screening test for ‘Who Wants to be a Millionaire,’ so I've agreed to make everything up to
him by acting as one of his phone-a-friend options.”

For fellow alumni hoping to appear on “Jeopardy,” “the best advice I’ve heard is to pay
attention in life,” says Norris. “If you read the newspaper, check out the movie listings;
watch the Oscars; listen to music; eat out now and then. Also, the direct route is not always
the key to answering questions on ‘Jeopardy.’ On most questions, the writers will throw in
a hint that will let you sneak around back to get to the answer.”

And be sure to brush up on your facts about George Washington and Robert E. Lee.
—Wendy Lovell ’90

You never know when they might come in handy.

 

32

Wa L ALU MANS MAGA ZI a

 

1981

jon C. Kalfs

is the tasting room and distribution
manager for Sheldrake Point
Vineyard and Cafe in New York’s
Finger Lakes wine region. He
supervises a staff that has been
cited in Wine Enthusiast for its hos-
pitality, knowledge and apprecia-
tion of regional and international
wines. In addition, he sits on the
board of directors of the Finger
Lakes Culinary Bounty, an organi-
zation that promotes and encour-
ages the use of local, fresh farm
products in area restaurants and
retail outlets. He lives in ‘Irumans-

burg, N.Y.

Edward L. Mintz

works as a podiatrist and says he is a
“social outcast for the time being.”
He lives in Englewood, N.]J.

1982

Barry R. Dunn

is working with GTCR Golder
Rauner L.L.C. in Chicago. He and
his wife, Kathleen, live in Wilmette,
lll., with their three sons, Barry Jr.,
Jackson and Maxwell.

1984

jJ. Robert Cross Jr.

has a new job with the national
headquarters of the American Red
Cross. As the senior facilities plan-
ner, he oversees the $1 billion

 

EEE eee

strategic capital plan for construc-
tion of new blood centers.

Cregory M. Lee

is senior vice president of sales and
marketing for Sunstone/Jezlaine,
the largest sterling silver jewelry
manufacturer and importer in the
country. He resides in both
Chicago and Washington with his
partner of 17 years.

M. Eugene Wood Ill

is a director in the risk manage-
ment area of Wachovia’s Corporate
and Investment Bank. He works
out of the firm’s Atlanta and
Charlotte offices and lives in
Atlanta with his wife, Allison.

1985

Jeffrey P. Blount

is the director of the Pediatric
Surgical Epilepsy Program at the
Children’s Hospital of Alabama.
He was also appointed to the board
of directors of the Birmingham
chapter of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association.

Jerry E. Farmer '85L
opened his own law office in January

2003 in Murfreesboro, ‘Tenn.

1936

Jeffrey S. Britton
was elected a deacon in the First
Presbyterian Church, Hightstown,

- -W&L Routs Sewanee

 

In September 2003, the Atlanta chapter of W&L alumni sound-

ly defeated their Sewanee counterparts in an inaugural softball

eame, 22-9. Posing proudly with their Best ‘Team in the World

trophy are, back row, left to right: William Culpepper "Oo, Gary
Hill 99, Geoff Gober ’99, Chris Bosworth °98, Frank Bazzel ’02,
Jason Cox ’96 and Slade Broom ’02; and front row, left to right:
Matthew Kozora ’02, Bob Weston ’99 and Justin Novak ’02.

N.J., and is the chairman of the
stewardship campaign.

Lester S. Johnson

is the chief of nuclear radiology for
Medical Center Radiologists and
Sentara Norfolk General Hospital.
Johnson received the ‘Teacher of
the Year Award in 2002 for his work
as assistant professor of radiology at
Eastern Virginia Medical School.
He resides in Virginia Beach with
his wife, Eveleen, and children,
Katherine, 5, and Benjamin, 2.

1987

John B. Cummings

reports that his daughter, Maya,
just graduated on the dean’s list
with a B.S. in accounting from
CCSU. His son Adam just graduat-
ed with honors from Moses Brown
School and is headed to the
University of Massachusetts at
Amherst. His son Nicholas is
working two jobs, and his daugh-
ter, Chloe, 10, has earned softball
and basketball titles. He and his
wife, Betsy, are proud of them all.
They live in Westport, Mass.

Robert Spencer Jr.

opened an authentic Irish pub with a
partner from Dublin. ‘The
Charleston, S.C., pub is called Madra
Rua, which translates to “ The Fox.”

1985

Thomas P. O’Brien III ('9IL)
is a partner with Frost, Brown,
Todd L.L.C. He and his wife,
Cindy, live in Louisville, Ky.

1989

James A. Linza Jr.

accepted a position as an associate
scout for the Kansas City Royals.
He will also return this year for his
fourth season as head coach at Mt.
Vernon High School in Alexandria,
Va. In his 18 years as a baseball
coach, he has compiled a 194-96-7
career record with nine league
titles. He also serves as president
of the 28-team Virginia Northern
Region Baseball Coaches
Association and works as an
instructor for the University of
Virginia’s Best in Virginia showcase

1991

Robby J. Aliff ("97L)
published an article in the West
Virginia Law Review entitled
“Medical Professional Liability in
West Virginia.” He lives in South
Charleston, W.Va.

Cecily Tynan Badger
joined anchor Jim Gardner and
“sportsguy” Gary Papa on WPVI-
TV, Philadelphia, the top-rated
newscast at 11 p.m., previously
allotted to males only. She lives in
Phoenixville, Pa., and plans to
compete in an Ironman triathlon.

Edward A. Hart

and his wife, Melinda Conkling
Hart ’91, moved to San Antonio.
He works for Austin, Calvert and
Flavin, an investment advisory
firm, and she works for KGB Texas,
a public relations and advertising

1992

Tracey Thornblade
Belmont

and her husband, Michael, relocat-
ed to Knoxville, ‘Tenn. She was
promoted to senior editor at John
Wiley, where she has worked for
nine years, and he has joined a
pediatric otolaryngology practice.

Maj. Toby D. McCoy (’95L)
was promoted to his current rank
in the Army’s Judge Advocate
General’s Corps on Jan. 1, 2003.
He is still stationed in northern
Virginia and is happy to have best
friend Scott Johnson ’96L living in
the area as well.

F. Trent Merchant

was named artistic associate at
PushPush Theater in Atlanta in
fall 2002. He recently appeared in
the world premiere of Murray
Mednick’s “Virtuousity” (sic) and
toured the production in July and
August to Theater am Sozialamt in
Munich, Germany.

1993

D. Kirkpatrick Archer
served as a speechwriter for
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush for the past
two years. He is now living in
Naples, Fla., working for Al
Hoffman, finance chairman of the
Republican National Committee,
and Florida real estate developer,
WCI Communities.

Elissa S. Pruett

is working in the Coalition
Authority’s Provisional Office of
Strategic Communications in
Baghdad, helping to handle press
for Ambassador L. Paul Bremer
and the interim government. She
says, “It is such an adventure and
an honor to be there.”

 

W.. baer Pe Bow. OD: D4

33

 

 

In August 2003, the Long Island chapter of W&L alumni welcomed

new students and their parents with a spectacular sunset reception,

hosted by Eric Campbell ’84, chapter board member, at his family’s

historic home overlooking Long Island Sound, Oyster Bay and Cold

Spring Harbor. From left to right: Brian Dieter ’06, a transfer from

Rice University, and Christopher Pearce, Matt Arcati, Jesse

Brundige, Maggie Megear, Milena Ricci and Sheryl Silvers, all

members of the Class of 2007.

1994

R. Allen Flickenger

and his wife, Kate, are living in
Luanda, Angola, where he has
joined the planning group for
Chevron'Texaco’s southern African
operations.

Michelle Brien Washington
has taken a job covering courts for
the Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk. Her
husband, Jim, and dog, Anna, will
be joining her soon. ‘Three of the
judges she writes about are W&L
law alumni, and her neighbor
across the street is Carter ‘Thomas
02. “There’s quite a crowd of
Generals here!”

1995

Whitney C. Bludworth
graduated from medical school and
finished her residency. She has
taken a job with Capitol Emergency
Associates, in Austin, ‘Texas.

Dr. Ryan T. Boone

began his final year of residency
training in otolaryngology and is
pursuing practice opportunities
back home in south Louisiana.

Eva Cid

is working for Carrefour and start-
ed a master’s in marketing in
October. She is living in Madrid
with her husband, Julio.

Stacey S. Cofield

completed her Ph.D. in biostatis-
tics from Virginia Commonwealth
University in June 2003. In
August, she accepted a faculty

position as assistant professor at
the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.

1996

Sakina K. Paige (’O2L)
joined the labor and employment
eroup of Kaufman & Canole’s
Richmond office.

Dr. Cheryl L. Taurassi

completed her pediatric residency
in June 2005 -at~ Schneider

 

‘The newly organized Baghdad
Chapter of the Washington and
Lee alumni association, from left to
right: George Wolfe °73, director of
economic policy, Coalition Pro-
visional Authority (CPA); Elissa
Pruett ’93, senior press officer, CPA
office of strategic communications;
Col. Rick Kenney ’81, director,
CPA communications support
office; and Allen Irish ’78L, CPA
senior advisor to the ministry of
environment. “Everything here is
great,” reports Irish, “except that
the hours are long, the food is lousy,

accommodations are awful, sum-

yo ee | ea ae as ee eae aa aa

 

Children’s Hospital of the Long
Island Jewish Medical Center. She
began a fellowship in pediatric criti-
cal care in July at the same hospital.

F. Danielle Wong

moved from journalism to public
relations last year and is enjoying
her position as media relations
manager for the Medical College
of Georgia Health System in

Augusta.
1997

Sarah C. Babcock

completed her first year of study at
the Fuqua School of Business at
Duke University. She spent sever-
al weeks last summer traveling in
South Africa prior to an internship
at Lehman Brothers in New York.

1998

Susan E. Creamer

is living in Baltimore, teaching sci-
ence and coaching lacrosse at St.
Paul’s, while pursuing a M.S. in
environmental science and policy
at Johns Hopkins University. She
returned to South America last
summer to lead a Habitat for
Humanity trip in Paraguay.

Brian J). Hooper

eraduated from Harvard Law
School, where he received the
Dean’s Award for Community
Leadership. He will be moving to
Washington to clerk for Judge

David Sentelle on the U.S. Court
of Appeals.

Alexandria L. Kappel
works for the Children’s Hospital
of Pittsburgh as a developmental
health care consultant.

Jason P. Sorens

earned his doctorate in political sci-
ence from Yale University on May 26,
2003. He has a one-year appoint-
ment as a lecturer at Yale begin-
ning in the fall.

i72Y

John A. Boothby

and his wife, Erin, are moving back
to New England to be closer to fam-
ily before they settle down. He will
be teaching biology at New Mitford
High School in Connecticut, and she
will be looking for a job in the field of
social work after receiving her mas-
ter’s degree at Virginia Common-
wealth University last spring.

Timothy J. Perlow

is in his second year at Widener
University School of Law. He
studied international law in
Geneva over the summer.

Lauren K. Weedon

is teaching fifth-grade language
arts in Jacksonville, Fla. She also
contributes freelance articles to
Marie Claire, Shape, Seventeen and
Lifetime magazines.

 

mers are unbearable, there is nothing to do but work and there is a lot of shooting.”

Wolfe will be on campus in early February. Watch www.wlu.edu for a video interview with him.

 

34

Wael

ALi MwWwu

MAGA ZT

 

 

 

 

pr. Erika A. Woodson
graduated from the Medical
College of Virginia in May 2003.
She will be moving to lowa to
begin residency training in oto-
laryngology at the University of
lowa. ‘Todd Ellingson °98 will be
training there, too.

2000

juliet M. Bickford

was named morning and noon
news anchor at WSLS-TV in
Roanoke.

Warren T. Meehan

returned home after two years as
an English teacher in the Peace
Corps in the Republic of Moldova
(in eastern Europe). ‘This fall he
will begin a master’s of divinity
program at the Lutheran
Theological Seminary in
Gettysburg, Pa.

Robert H. Smith

and his wife, Kathleen Brothers
Smith 'Ol, celebrated their first
wedding anniversary in June 2003.
They live in Knoxville, ‘Tenn.

2001

D. Neil Sullivan

began his third year of teaching
high school English in Japan
through the J.E.T. program. He
will be moving to Shizuoka for his

final year.
2003

Kelli M. Carpenter
is attending law school at the
University of Alabama.

R. Neal Willets

is teaching high school theater at
the Punahou School in Honolulu,
Hawaii, for the 2003-2004 school
year, before returning to the
University of Virginia for a master’s
in education.

 

Dr. John O. Martin ’51 to Dianne
Pruett on Nov. 2, 2002, in Vienna,
Va. They live in Fairfax, Va., and
both are retired.

Ray V. Hartwell Ill "69, "75L to
Marianne Geeker, Nov. 3, 2002, in
Pensacola, Fla. Among those at the
ceremony were best man John
Simmons °69, the bride’s brother
Van Geeker ’76, Doug Hall ’69,
Sandy Rowe ’70, Hank Graddy
69, Broox Garrett ’70, Hatton
Smith °73, Neal Barkus *74 and
Mike Armstrong ’77. Hartwell is a

partner with the firm of Hunton &
Williams in Washington. His wife
is a lawyer and former vice presi-
dent of both MCI Communica-
tions and ABC Inc. The couple
lives in McLean, Va.

Stephen F. Mangum ‘77 to
Elizabeth Hintlian on April 20,
2002, at Auberge du Soleil, over-
looking Napa Valley. His twin sons,
Nick and ‘Taylor, served as best
men. The couple resides in San
Francisco. He is EVP and CFO of
DFS Duty Free Shops and is plan-
ning to run his first marathon in
December.

Nelson E. Ould ’82 to Lacy Yowell
on Aug. 30, 2002, in the living
room of their home. At the time
they were married, Yowell had ter-
minal cancer; she died Nov. 11,
2002. Ould appreciates the prayers
and expressions of support from
his Sigma Chi brothers during his
wife’s 18-month battle.

David Scott Richardson '90 to
Julia Nix on May 26, 2002, in
Baltimore. He works for Nike and
has bought a home in Portland,

Ore.

Edward T. Rowan Jr. '90 to
Monica E. Rovner on Feb. 1, 2003,
in Washington. ‘The groom’s party
included classmates Chris Cerone
and David Betzold. Also in atten-
dance were Rick Sances ’90, John
Thomas 92, Al Sutton °88 and
John McManus 791. ‘The couple
resides in Fairfax, Va.

Jj. Carter Montague’90 to Eileen
Riley on June 28, 2003, in
Wellesley, Mass. In attendance
were ‘Tom Dierdorff 90, Scott
Brisendine ’90, Charlie Benedict
°88, Allen Brown 7°90, Brian ‘Tanis
90, Scott Sanders °90, Chrissy
Donnelly ’96, Charles Humpton
°57, Barrie Montague °56, Lewis
Creskoff ’55 and Klar Yaggi. “Uhe
couple lives in the downtown
Boston area. He has founded a
small private equity firm to buy
and run low-tech businesses.

Dr. Michael J. Sebesta "92 to Dr.
Cheryl Ledford in San Antonio,
‘Texas, on June 7, 2003. He fin-
ished his residency in urology at
Brook Army Medical Center in
San Antonio. He has published
several papers, written a textbook
chapter and presented research at
several urologic conferences. ‘Vhe
couple moved to Fort Bragg, N.C.,
where he will be working as a uro-
logic surgeon at Womack Army

 

Medical Center, and she will be an
orthopedic surgeon in the same
location.

Christopher C. Crenshaw '93 to
Sallie Ann Fox on May 17, 2003, in
Richmond. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates
Rick Peltz as best man and Marty
Mahoney, Scott Hicks and C. Scott
Smith. ‘The couple resides in
Scottsville, Va.

David N. Williams Jr. '93 to
Jennifer Leslie O’Brien on June 6,
2003, in Atlanta, where they live.

Krista Taurins 94 to Dmitry
Latushkin on May 31, 2003, in
Riga, Latvia, where the couple
lives. The reception took place in
Sigulda Castle. She is director of
the American Chamber — of
Commerce.

Leigh E. McKinney '95 to Russell
Douglas Hinson, on April 12, 2003,
in the garden of her childhood
home in Anderson, S.C. ‘The
matron of honor was Krista
Lindsey Willim 95, ’03L and the
maid of honor was Megan

Elizabeth McCloskey °95. Other
members of the wedding party

included Caroline Amason Adams
°95, Joyce Encarnacion Bautista "95
and Mary Remington Saunders
°95. Other alumni in attendance
were Allen Gillespie 95, Kelly Fox
Gillespie °96, John Cox ’95 and
Alvin Townley ’97. ‘The couple
plans to stay in Greenville, S.C.,
and live happily ever after.

Elise Brown '95 to George
Hinton, on June 21, 2003, in the
Washington area. Many W&L
alumni attended, including Susan
Fisher 795, Eleanor Robinson 795,
Bridget Cronin *95, Anne-Lamar
Brown 7°98, Brooks Brown 65,
Ridge Grant 7°65, Sarah
Aschenbach ’95, Meredith Long
95, Stuart Christhilf °96, Justin
Dardani 96, Brad Vineyard 796,
Taylor Burke 795 and Liz
Holleman Brown 95. ‘The couple
lives in Charlotte, N.C.

John-Paul Lunn '95 to Heather
Sheppard '0O, on June 22, 2002,
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Peter
H. Sheppard ’72. Members of the
wedding party included Kathy
Sheppard Hoar ’96, Mary Heather
Welder ’00, Ashley Penkava
Sutherland ’00, Oliver Hoar ’97
and Jason Mackey 7°95. In atten-

 

Remember your senior year, when you were about to gradu-
ate and begin your career? Wouldn’t it have been nice to have a

crystal ball as you peered into the
future? Well, W&L’s Career
Services provides the next
best thing with its Alumni
Program.

in Residence

Graduates visit the University

    
  

 
 

|

Kd

wi CF

during Winter or Spring ‘Term, \
talk with students in groups and }

individually, discuss their own

experiences and help students shape

their plans.

Wendy Lovell ’90, a journalism major now working as a
freelance writer and editor, says, “Taking part in the Alumni in
Residence Program was a wonderful way to connect with
W&Ls journalism students. Not only did I serve as a sounding
board for students pondering how to begin and steer their
careers, but I also testified to the strength of the W&L network
in developing my own professional life. ‘The program is one of
the many benefits of attending Washington and Lee.”

To find out more about the program, contact Beverly Lorig
in W&L Career Services at 540/458-8595 or blorig@wlu.edu.

 

W..4:> NxTsEcRha @ 0 OSA

35

We welcome submissions for Alumni News and Class Notes from
alumni only. Regrettably, we are unable to publish news submitted by
other parties. Photographs must be accompanied by identification of all
persons. Color or black-and-white prints with a clear image and good
contrast reproduce best. If the image is e-mailed, it must be 300 dpi or
above and arrive as a jpeg file. Please mail material to Publications
Editor, Washington and Lee University, Mattingly House, Lexington,
VA 24450-0303, or e-mail it to magazine@wlu.edu.

A LU M N | N E W S

dance were Allen Gillespie 795,
Kelly Fox Gillespie ’96, Compton
Biddle °95, ‘Taylor Beaupain ’00,
‘Ted Elliot 94, Hillary Everist ’00,
David Cohen ’95, Mary Elizabeth
Whipple Eldridge ’00, Bryson Datt
00, Sarah Hall Datt ’00, Peyton
Biddle ’00, ‘Tom Becker ’96, Amy
Calice ’01, Carolyn Maro ’00 and
Frances Groberg ‘01. “We look
back on the pictures of that day
with the fondest memories that so
many of you came from all over to
make our wedding special.” ‘The
couple lives in Dallas.

David P. Marsh '95 to Becky
Zmenkowski, on June 21, 2003,
outside of Pittsburgh. Bryan
Snyder °95 was a groomsman.
Other W&L alumni guests includ-
ed ‘I. Patrick Smith °94, °98L and
Christopher Pugsley ’98. ‘The cou-
ple resides in Olney, Md. He
works as a high-yield analyst at
Friedman, Billings, Ramsey in
Arlington, Va., and she works for a
non-profit in Washington.

Laura Forster '96 to William
Bennett on March 8, 2003, in
Charleston, S.C. She is an assistant
director of development at the
National Cathedral School. ‘The
couple lives in Washington.

Susan Prevost '97 to Kevin
Brandmeyer on June 21, 2003, in
Philadelphia. Bridesmaids includ-
ed Julie Mayo Bradbury ’97, Jen
Horne Boyter 97 and Amy Shaw
"97. She teaches first grade at
PS321 in Brooklyn, and he is in his
first year at Columbia Business
School.

Amy Bookout '97 to David
Christie, on Aug. 17, 2002, in
Simsbury, Conn. ‘The wedding
party included Anne Spencer 97,
Katherine Sawyer °97, ‘Theresa
Jones 97 and Cather Moser Heald
"97. In attendance were classmates
Hunter Armstrong, Chad Sartini,
Jonathan Small, Phil Vong, ‘lara

Hebert, Bill Messerle and Natalie
Messmore Stevens. ‘The couple
are both English teachers at
'TASIS near London, England,
with fellow W&L alumna Nikki
Magaziner Mills 94. She recerved
her master’s degree in English
from Middlebury College, Bread
Loaf School of English, in August
2002. She enjoyed spending the
summer with Kelly Kopcial °96
and Rebecca Makkai Freeman ’99.

Dr. Keith A. Howell "97 to Susan
Elizabeth Glenn on June 22, 2002,
in Hartwell, Ga. ‘The wedding
party included Dr. Robbie Heyer
°97 and Hunter Brackett 97, with
many other classmates in atten-
dance. Howell completed his
internship in general surgery at
Carraway Methodist Medical
Center in Birmingham, Ala., in
June and began his second year of
residency in anesthesia at the
Medical College of Virginia in July.
His wife is enrolled in the Medical
College of Virginia School of
Nursing’s post-graduate anesthesia
program. ‘The couple resides in
Richmond.

Ruth Henry '97 to Chris Keyes on
June 15, 2002. ‘The wedding party
included Holly Liles Crump 97
and Sue McGettigan 97. In atten-
dance were Jake Buckner 797,
Christie Caloudas Vlahakos °98
and Laura Wareing Wheless 98.

Brian Kuck '97 to Lamandra
Jenkins "97 on June 29, 2003, in
Jacksonville Beach, Fla. ‘The cou-
ple resides in Houston, where he is
in his second year at Rice
University’s Jones School of
Business, and she is, “as always,
job hunting.”

David N. Seidel '97 to Kelly
Moore on July 6, 2002, at
Mountain Lake, Va. ‘hanks to the
many W&L alumni who made the

trip. The couple lives in Roanoke.
He is a producer at WDBJ-7 and

 

she is the box office and guest ser-
vices coordinator at Jefferson
Center, a performing arts center.

Dr. Fredric T. Billings IV '98 and
Kathryn Kitchens 98 on April 20,
2002, in Augusta, Ga. She 1s work-
ing as an epidemiologist in the
bioterrorism division of the
‘Tennessee Department of Health,
and he is an anesthesiology resi-
dent at Vanderbilt University. ‘The
couple lives in Nashville.

Nicholas Cerard Hodge '98 to
‘Tracy Garino, on July 19, 2003, in
Columbus, Ohio. Groomsmen
included Stefan Neumeister °98,
Andrew ‘Tate ’98, Colin Connolly
98, Will Lowrance °98, Rob
Russell ’98, Jacob Garrett ’98 and
Jason Jarecki °99. Bridesmaids
included Greta Richter "99 and
Elizabeth Watkins ’00.

Andrew P. Kintz "98 to Mary
‘Towles Allison, on Aug. 30, 2003.
‘The wedding party included class-
mates Brian Culver, Forrest
Stewart, Mark Di Cristina and the
father of the groom, Peter Kintz
66, *69L.

Dr. M. Truitt Cooper '99 to
Carrie Luria '00 on April 12,
2003, in Washington. He is doing
his orthopedic surgery residency,
and she is in law school, both at
Ohio State University. ‘The couple
lives in Upper Arlington, Ohio.

Alyssa R. Kaufman '99 to David
Mack on March 30, 2003, in Glen
Island Park, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Members of the wedding party
included Michelle DallVechia
Egorin ’99 as matron of honor and
Stephanie DallVechia Adams 796.
‘The couple resides in New York,
where she is continuing her career
at CSFB while pursuing her
M.B.A. at Columbia University.
He works in finance.

Thomas B. Washburn '99 to
Carrie Hoover on Oct. 26, 2002.
‘The couple resides in Charlotte,

N.C.

Sara M. Wood '00 to Jack Zedlitz,
on March 15, 2003, in Naples, Fla.
‘The couple resides in Charlotte,
N.C., where they are both teachers
at Charlotte Latin School.

Tara McCook '02 to Benjamin
H. Segal ’02 on July 13, 2002, in
Richmond. Members of the wed-
ding party include classmates
Abigail Montgomery, Eric James,

Sam Langholz, Ryan Lepine and
Matthew Jacobs. Many other class-
mates and friends from Lexington
were in attendance. ‘The couple
resides in Alexandria, Va., where
he works for Reznick, Fedder and
Silverman CPAs, and she works in
food retailing.

Lacey Thomas '02 to Derek
Parker on June 21, 2003, at the
Airlie Center in Warrenton, Va. She
is attending law school at the
University of Virginia, and he is
working as a computer graphics
designer. ‘The couple resides in
Waynesboro, Va.

BIRTHS

Mr. and Mrs. Brian T. Downs’80,
a son, Christopher James, on Oct.
6, 2002. ‘They live in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Malesardi
82, twin sons, Harper and Harry,
on March 17, 2002. ‘The family
resides in Great Falls, Va.

H. Powell Starks '83 (‘88L) and
Fiona Harkess Starks ’90, a son,
Charles Noell, on March 23, 2003.
He joins W. August Blocker, 6, and
Henry P. Starks Jr., 2. ‘The family
resides in Louisville, Ky.

W. Drew Perkins Jr. '84 and Nelly
Creene Perkins 90, a son, Henry
Stack, on Sept. 19, 2002. He joins
older brother Giles. ‘The family
lives in Baltimore.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Plumly
Il '84, a daughter, Emma
Katharine, on Sept. 6, 2002. Her
older brother, Charley, is very
proud of his baby sister. ‘The fami-
ly resides in Atlanta.

Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey S. Mandak
'87, a daughter, Nicole Angela, on
March 1, 2003. She joins. sister
Alexa, 8, and brother Mark, 5. ‘The
family lives in Mechanicsburg, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. R. Maxwell McCrew
'87, a daughter, Ann Myrick
Maxwell, on July 18, 2003. ‘The
family resides in Atlanta.

Lt. Cmdr. Edwin Parkinson '87
and Heather B. Brock '90, a son,
William Wright, on May 11, 2003.
The family recently moved to
Boston so Parkinson can attend
Harvard Business School.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry M. Sackett
IV '88, a daughter, Rosa Heyward,
on May 9, 2003. She joins sisters

 

36

WEaL

A lL UMass

MAG A Z 1

 

 

 

 

Ansley, 7, and Molly, 5. The family
lives in Greensboro, N.C.

   

a son, Shins
einai on June 12, 2003. He joins
sister Laurel, 3. ‘The family resides
in Monument, Colo.

 

; it ) 189, a
son, Benjamin Francis, on Oct. 18,
2002. He drives trucks, while she is
a writer. The family resides in
Redondo Beach, Calif.

 
 

y and her
husband, a son, Harry
William, on September 7, 2002.
The family resides in Waterford, Va.

 

a daughter, Ashleigh Marie, on
Oct. 24, 2002. She joins sister
Grace Elizabeth, 2. The family
lives in Willington, Conn.

 
 

and ’
a son, Aidan

 

James, on June, 5, 2003. He joins
brothers Liam, 6, and Colin, 2.
James works at Mactive Inc. as a
systems engineer and product line
manager, while Ann is pursuing an
advanced degree and homeschools
their children in Melbourne, Fla.

 
   

a daughter, Sophia Blanche,

on April 24, 2003. She joins sister
Grace, 3. The family resides in
Alexandria, Va.

 
 

and her heszbamed x ;

daughter, Caroline Griffith, on
Sept. 1, 2002. She joins brother
Will, 2. The family resides in
Wayne, Pa.

 
 

a. son, Donald
Woodford “Ford” Webb III, on
Dec. 31, 2002. The family re-
sides in Lexington, Ky.

CT
GIFTS OF DISTINCTION

All products PRURa ta aaa
aaa or W&L imprint

ww.barringtongifts.com/wlu

 

 

 

 

Patrick

 
   

a boy,

Joseph, on May 8, 2003. He | joins
sister Katie, 2. ‘The family lives in
Upper Montclair, N.J.

 
 

a daughter, Caroline Marie,

on v Api 16, 2003. ‘The family
resides in Marietta, Ga.

 

, a daughter, Virginia ete on

 

July 12, 2003. He works in north-
erm Virginia as an attorney with
Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering. ‘The
family resides in Vienna, Va.

 
 

a daughter, Ponies
Eaneah on August 27, 2002. He
practices family law im

Charlottesville, Va., with Jones &
Green LLP.

and

 
 

 

Margaret Belle

daughter,
“Maribelle,” on June 16, 2003. She
joins brother William, 2. ‘The fami-
ly resides in Houston.

 
  

and her husband, S, a son,
Alexander Sebastian, on Dec. 11,
2002. ‘The family resides in a vil-
lage near Heidelberg, Germany.

 

, a son, Edward Allen, on Feb.
13, 2003. The family resides in
Baltimore.

  
 

Di and her
husband, a daugh-
ter, Sarah Kate Ashton, on May 4,
2005. The * fanitty “tives” in
Ellensburg, Wash., where she prac-
tices rural pediatric medicine, and
he is working toward a master’s in
English literature from Central
Washington University.

  
   

2 n and her
husband, , a son, Martin
Quinn, on May 12, 2003. Quinn
joins brother Charlie, 2, and sister
Isabel, 4. ‘The family is making a
new home in Fairport, N.Y.

and 1
93, a son, John
Charles Kenneth O’Brien, on Jan.
1, 2003. He joins sister Alexandra, 3,
and brother Colin, 18 months. ‘The
family resides in Lafayette, Colo.

 
 

 
 

and i
identical twin
daughters, Rachel Margaret and
Lindsey Grace, on Feb. 28, 2003.

 

 

 

The family resides in Austin,
‘Texas.

  
   

and her husband, Troy, a daughter,
Quinn McAllister, on April 14,
2003. ‘The family lives in Mill
Valley, Calif.

 

a son, Alec William, March 30,
2003. He joins brother Bradshaw,
2. The family lives in Denver.

   

a daughter, Catherine Pearce,
on June 20, 2003. Dad 1s already
grooming his “Little General” for
W&L. The family resides in
Norfolk, Va.

   
 

and C€
a daughter,
Catherine Elise, on July 7, 2003.
‘The family resides in Dallas.

 

3, a
son, Jack Matthew, on Sept. 8,
2002. Sigmon is an ear, nose and
throat physician, and the family
resides in Oklahoma City, Okla.

 
  

 

| and |
/ eatecbiedd
ie Marie, on June 10, 2003.
‘The family lives in Scotch Plains,
N.J.

 

son, James Dewey, on June 2,
2003. The family is doing well and
sull living in Virginia Beach. ‘The
proud father says he 1s thankful not
to be at sea during this time.

  
 

'OA and

her fuisbind, ‘ daughter.

Landis Elizabeth, : on April 14,
2003. ‘The family resides in
Atlanta.

 

» and
, a son, Roger
Malcolm Briggs III “Beau,” on
Aug. 10, 2003. Mom and Dad both
work in commercial real estate
finance. ‘The family resides in

Charlotte, N.C.

  

 

2, a

wn Carter Lewis, on May 28,
2003. The
Shreveport, La.

family lives in

   
 

a ‘dented fen
Malin, on July 9, 2003. ‘The family
resides in Gieciibek: Md.

2

  
 

5 and her

husband, a a daughter,

 

W4 STE Rs FO Oe

ae

Ramsey Brynn, on June 18, 2003.
She works as a commercial real
estate appraiser with the Marshall
Dodds Company. ‘The family
resides in Columbia, S.C.

Jared D. Spahn "95 and Francie
Cohen Spahn '95, a son, Carter
Wolfe, on May 24, 2003. ‘The fam-
ily resides in Baltimore.

Douglas W. Thiessen '95 and
Sarah Horn Thiessen '93, a
daughter, Heidi Rebecca, on June
10, 2003. She joins sister Hannah,
5, and brother ‘Taylor, 3. ‘The fami-
ly lives in West River, Md., where
he is an attorney with the U.S.
Justice Department.

Mr. and Mrs. Duane Matthew
Van Arsdale '95, a son, Zachary
Richard, on May 16, 2003. ‘The
family lives in Chalfont, Pa.

Thomas L. Bradbury Jr. "96 and
Julie Mayo Bradbury '97, a son,
‘Thomas Lane Bradbury III, on
Feb. 4, 2003. ‘The family resides in
Nashville, ‘Tenn.

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Fosgate
'96, a daughter, Harper Ashby, on
May 22, 2003. The family lives in
Charlotte, N.C.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Hull "96, a
son, Pierson Stone, on April 26,
2003; - “Phe « family~--lives. im
Lexington.

Peter J. Breen "97 and Jennifer
Miller Breen '97, a daughter,
Meghan Jennifer, on June 5, 2003.
She joins brother Patrick, 18
months. ‘The family lives in the
Old ‘Town neighborhood — of
Chicago.

David C. Jones "97 and Lisa
Smith Jones '96, a son, Edward
“Teddy” Madison, on March 4,
2003. Proud family members
include Uncle Schuyler Jones ’97
and Aunt Catherine Avant Jones
97 and Uncle Jonathan Smith ’01.
‘The family lives in Durham, N.C.

Adrienne Bryant Wooldridge
'97 and Zach Wooldridge '96, a
daughter, Sumner Lane, on May 9,
2003. ‘Vhe family resides in Dallas.

Dr. and Mrs. Paul Byerly 98, a
daughter, Nina Grace, on Sept. 4,
2003. ‘The family resides in
Graham, N.C.

David J. Coon '98 and Jennifer
Justema Coon '98, a daughter,
Abigail Elizabeth, on April 14,

2003. The family resides in Dallas.

Sarah Parnell 'O1 and her hus-
band, Damian, a _ daughter,
Emma, on August 1, 2003. ‘The
family lives in Shelbyville, Ky.

OBITUARIES

 

John C. McCiffin '26,

a central figure in the develop-
ment of Jacksonville, Fla.’s, mar-
itime industry, died July 9, 2003.
He joined his father’s company
upon graduation and served as
president for more than 60 years.
He was a veteran of World War II.

James F. Crowder '28,
retired consumer finance business-

man, died March 9, 2003.

James N. Hess Jr. ’30

died Aug. 3, 2003. He retired from
the accounting department of
Barden Corp. in Connecticut. He
was a member of Beta ‘Theta Pi
social fraternity.

Otis H. Smith '3I,

former mayor of Lewes, Del.,
president of Beebe Hospital and
president of Seacoast Products,
died June 20, 2001. He was a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity.

Edwin B. Wilcox '3I,

retired salesman, died May 29,
1995, in Rochester, N.Y. He was a
member of Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity.

Reuben B. Armistead '33,
retired employee with South
Central Bell, died Oct. 10, 2001, in
Atlanta.

Richard K. Eddy ‘33,

retired owner of Blue Ridge
Collection, died May 28, 2000, in
Winchester, Va. He was a member
of Sigma Phi Epsilon social frater-

nity.

Ceorge W. Flack '33,

a retiree of Union Carbide Nuclear
Co., died Sept. 12, 2003. He was a
member of many clubs and organi-
zations and was president of the
Chamber of Commerce and the
American Red Cross in Oak
Ridge, ‘Tenn. He retired in 1977 to
Daytona Beach, Fla. Flack was a
member of Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity.

Robert B. Safford '34,
retired secretary of the life, health

A LU MN It N E W S

 

and financial services department
of ‘Iravelers Insurance Co., died
July 28, 2003. In his tour of duty in
the Pacific theater, he commanded
a Navy LST-329 (Landing Ship
Tank). He was a member of Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity, com-
merce fraternity, the Interfraternity
Council and Pi Alpha Nu.

Ernest L. Childs '36

died Aug. 8, 2002, in the home in
which he was born and raised. He
spent his entire life in Casanova,
Va., except for his college years at
W&L and service in World War IL.
He was instrumental in bringing
Little League to Fauquier County,
building a baseball diamond on his
family farm.

Joseph T. Drake Jr. '36, "38L
died Aug. 12, 2003. After gradua-
tion, he practiced law with his
father under the firm name of E.S.
& J.T. Drake and continued prac-
ticing until his retirement 60 years
later. He served as a lieutenant in
the Navy aboard the U.S.S. Hornet
during World War Il. He was a
member of Delta ‘Tau Delta social
fraternity.

The Hon. Omer L. Hirst 36,
northern Virginia real estate
investor and member of the
Virginia General Assembly, died
July 29, 2003. He served in the
state House of Delegates from
1953-1959 and in the state Senate
from 1964-1980. He was a Marine
Corps veteran of World War II and
a member of Phi Beta Kappa
honor society.

Bruce N. Lanier '36,

former president and chairman of
the board of West Point Manufac-
turing Co., died Dec. 9, 2002. He
served in the Navy during World
War II and was a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

Robert F. Middlekauff '36,
retired salesman, died Feb. 4,
1999, in Hagerstown, Md. He was
a member of Delta Upsilon social
fraternity.

Alvin H. Moraweck Jr. '36
died May 1, 1998, in Bedminster,
N.J. He was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

William A. Smith '36,

owner of a real estate agency, died
April 14, 2003. He was a member
of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Edward A. Turville '36,

lawyer, died Aug. 13, 2003. He
served as president of the St.
Petersburg Exchange Club and as
a state commander of the Florida
Veterans of World War II. He also
found time to play amateur tennis
and support the U.S. ‘Tennis
Association, serving as a non-play-
ing captain of the Davis Cup team.
He was also active as a Republican
party leader. He was a member of
Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Homer W. Bowers Jr. '37, 42L,
attorney, died Aug. 12, 2003. He
practiced law in Charleston, S.C.,
for more than 50 years. He was a
member of Delta Upsilon social
fraternity and served as a class
officer.

Col. George T. Crowell '37,
retired Air Force officer, died
March 14, 2002. He was a decorat-
ed pilot in World War II, earning a
Distinguished Flying Cross and a
Silver Oak Leaf Cluster with an
Air Medal.

Frank H. Yaffe '37,

former owner and CEO of
Bethesda Waters Inc., died June
22, 2003. He was a member of Zeta
Beta ‘Tau social fraternity.

C. Eugene Kernaghan Jr. '38
died Oct. 13, 2001. He was
member of Delta Upsilon social
fraternity.

Thomas W. Stanfield '38
died March 25, 2003, in Savannah,
Ga. He served in the Merchant
Marines during World War I.

John C. White '38, '40L
died June 26, 2003. After gradua-
tion, he served in a military intelli-
gence unit in China during World
War II and was awarded a Bronze
Star. For 20 years, he worked with
the Private ‘Truck Council of
America, retiring as executive
director. He was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Fred C. Francis '39L,
retired lawyer, died June 12, 2003.
He volunteered for the Air Corps
in 1942. After retiring from military
service in 1946, with the rank of
major in the JAGD, he practiced
law in Prestonburg, Ky. He
received the Outstanding Service
Award from the Kentucky Bar
Association 1n 1971.

Robert W. Hilton Jr. '39,
retired lawyer and civic leader,

 

38

WaL

Ait vu wma

MAGA ZI he

died Aug. 13, 2003. During World
War II, he served four years in the
Army, first with the Air Corps
Judge Advocate’s office in
Mississippi and later with an Army
Signal Corps French-Chinese lan-
guage unit in India. In 1974, he
organized a new law firm. He was
active in city council and served on
numerous boards and societies. He
was a member of Sigma Phi
Epsilon social fraternity.

Samuel C. Jones Jr. '39L,
retired chairman of Berkley
Machine Works of Norfolk, Va.,
died Aug. 17, 2003. He was a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity.

Palmer R. Ogden '39

died July 7, 2000. He was a veteran
of World War II and continued to
serve his country in the Air Force
until his retirement in 1961. ‘The
next 20 years he spent in civil ser-
vice at Jacksonville Naval Air
Station. He was a member of P1
Kappa Alpha social fraternity and
‘lau Kappa Iota.

The Hon. Walter A. Page '39
died Dec. 6, 1998. A native of
Norfolk, Va., he practiced law with
the family’s firm before serving in
the Virginia General Assembly and
later the Circuit Court, of which he
became the first chief judge in
1973. He was a member of Alpha
‘lau Omega social fraternity.

Roy S. Thompson Jr. '39,
founder and chairman of
‘Thompson Insurance Enterprises
Inc., died June 28, 2003. He served
four years in the Navy, received
nine decorations and attained the
rank of lieutenant commander. He
was a member of Sigma Nu social
fraternity.

Robert H. Gaddy ’40

died Oct. 27, 2001. He was a
squadron commander and decorat-
ed B-17 pilot in World War I,
attaining the rank of lieutenant
colonel. He was a past chairman
and director of Latta Bank & ‘Trust
in South Carolina. He was a mem-
ber of Sigma Nu social fraternity
and graduated summa cum laude.

C. Harrison Hogan '40,
retired captain for ‘Trans World
Airlines, died June 27, 2003. He
served in the Naval Air Corps dur-
ing World War II. He was a mem-
ber of the Generals Club and
played football for W&L.

Lt. Col. Kerwin B. Adams ‘41
died Aug. 2, 2003. He served in the
Air Force during World War II with
the 41st Troop Carrier Squadron.
After the war he worked with his
father while continuing to serve in
the Air Force Reserves. He retired

_after 30 years of service at Dobbins

Air Force Base, Ga. He was a
member of Alpha ‘Tau Omega
social fraternity.

Dr. Alexander Bratenahl ’4I,
retired physicist, died Oct. 15,
2001, in Pasadena, Calif. He was a
member of Beta Theta Pi social
fraternity.

Allen H. Bulkley Jr. '4I

died July 4, 2003. He retired from
Cornell University as a research
technician and then operated a
honey business with his son. He
was a pitcher for a minor league
baseball team in the Baltimore
Orioles organization.

E. Clay Combs Jr. ’4l

died July 28, 1994. He was a
member of Phi Delta Theta social
fraternity.

Robert M. Renick '4I,
founding member of United Way
International, died May 17, 2003.
He served in the Air Force during
World War II, stationed in
Greelong, Australia, where he
returned after the war. His legacy
to Greelong, in terms of communi-
ty service, was considerable; he
founded and served on numerous
boards and societies. He was a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
social fraternity.

Robert N. Sweeny ’4I,
retired marketing administrator
with IBM Corp., died July 20, 2003.
He served in the Army during
World War II. He was a member of
Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Thomas E. Tucker '4l,

retired banking executive, died
Aug. 27, 2001. He was a veteran of
World War II, serving in the Army
Air Corps and the Merchant
Marine. He was a member of P1
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Henry B. Wilder '4I

died Sept. 16, 2002. He served in
the Navy during World War II and
retired a lieutenant commander. A
resident of Pasadena, Calif., he was
active in the ‘Tournament of Roses.
He was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

 

Oscar W. Cleal Jr. '42

died Aug. 22, 2003. He learned to
fly serving stateside with the Navy
during World War II and _ later
became a commercial pilot. In
1961, he was blinded in an
attempted hijacking. Cleal became
the first blind broker with the New
York Stock Exchange.

William M. Martin '42

died Aug. 24, 2003. He was a vet-
eran of World War II and received
a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart
for his service in Iwo Jima. He
retired a lieutenant colonel. He
enjoyed a varied and successful
career in Broken Arrow, Okla., and
was named Outstanding Citizen in
1980. He was a member of Phi
Delta Theta social fraternity.

Junior B. Nestor '42,

of Roanoke, died May 27, 2003. A
veteran of World War II, he was
active in the local American

Legion and the VFW.

The Hon. Robert T.
Vaughn Sr. '42, '44L,

of South Boston, Va., died Aug. 20,
2003. He was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, Phi Delta Phi and the
Order of the Coif.

Frederick M. Allen '43,

an ordained minister, died Sept.
30, 2003. He was a member of Phi
Kappa Sigma social fraternity and
wrote for The Ring-tum PM.

Richard J. Bromley '43,
retired stockbroker and_ teacher,
died July 2, 2003. He was a member
of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

James A. Jones '43,

of Staunton, Va., died Feb. 19,
2003. He was a veteran of World
War II and received a Bronze Star
for service under fire at the Battle
of the Bulge. He was an avid fish-
erman and lifelong enthusiast for
the natural beauty of the
Shenandoah Valley.

Joseph E. Lee ’43

died Sept. 2, 2003. After training in
a dental program with the Army
Specialist Training Corps, he served
in England and Reims during
World War II. From 1949 to 1987,
Lee worked with McLaughlin
Gormley King, for which service he
was awarded lifetime membership
in the Chemical Specialties
Manufacturing Association. He was
a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social
fraternity.

Dr. Robert L. Michael '43,
physician and surgeon, died July 8,
2003. He was an Army veteran of
World War II and the Korean War.
He practiced medicine in
Kokomo, Ind., for over 50 years.
He was a member of Beta ‘Theta
Pi social fraternity and the foren-
sics team.

Clarence E. Ballenger Jr. '44
died July 29, 2003. He served with
the 6th Marine Division at
Guadalcanal, Okinawa and ‘Ising-
tao, China, and was awarded two
Purple Hearts; he was also decorat-
ed by Chiang Kai-shek. At W&L,
he was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity and a cap-
tain of the basketball team. He was
an honorary inductee of Omicron
Delta Kappa and received a 250th
Chapter Honoree Award for his
dedication to his alma mater.

Edward F. Devol Jr. '44

died April 9, 2003. After retiring as
managing editor in Press &
Publications Service of the U.S.
Information Agency, he worked as
a freelance writer. He was a mem-
ber of Alpha ‘Tau Omega social fra-
ternity and Southern Comfort.

J. P. Stuart Smith Jr. '44,
former vice president and chief
appraiser of Piedmont Federal
Savings Bank, died Sept. 14, 2003.
He enlisted in the Army Air Corps
in 1942 and served with the 66th
‘Troop Carrier Squadron in the
South Pacific. An avid sportsman,
Stuart won numerous golf and ten-
nis tournaments well into his 60s.
He was a member of Kappa Alpha
Order social fraternity and a letter-
holder in baseball and basketball
in his two years at W&L.

Edward J. Blanken '45

died Nov. 10, 2002. He visited
W&L every year since 1996 to par-
ticipate in Alumni College activi-
ties, including two Alumni College
trips. He was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

William V.

Richards Jr. '45, '49L,
former executive vice president of
Winters National Bank/Bank One,
died June 23, 2003. He served with
honor as a B-24 pilot in the 734th
Bombardier Squadron and as a
judge advocate in the Korean War.

-He was a member of Beta ‘Vheta

Pi social fraternity and participated
in indoor/outdoor track and field.

 

W. 4 BE Te eS 2-0 0.4

39

Charles B. Tebbs 45, '49L
died June 9, 2003. He was a cap-
tain in the Marine Corps during
World War II. After the war, he was
a special agent with the FBI for 15
years. At the time of his retire-
ment, he was vice president and
deputy security director for
Bankers ‘Irust Co. in New York.
He was a member of Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

J. Fielder Cook '46,
award-winning director of films
and television dramas, died June
20, 2003. He was an officer in the
Navy in World War II. He won sev-
eral Emmys and ts considered by
many a pioneer for his work during
the golden age of live television at
the Kraft ‘Television ‘Theatre,
Playhouse 90 and the Kaiser
Aluminum Hour productions.

The Hon. Robert M.
Worrell '47L,

of Harrisonburg, Va., died July 22,
2003. He served as judge in the
27th Judicial Circuit Court of West
Virginia from 1950-1974 and prac-
ticed law in Pineville, W.Va., until
his retirement in 1989. He served
in the ‘Vhird Army during World
War II.

W. Sperry Lee ’48L

died July 24, 2003. A veteran of
two wars, he participated in the
1944 D-Day landings in France
and returned to active duty during
the Korean War. He served as a

trustee for the University of the
South.

Richard W. Lowery '48L
died Nov. 2, 2002. He was honored
by the Virginia Bar Association for
50 years of membership in 1999.

F. Lisle Peters Jr. 50,
former president of Western
Lumber Co. Inc. and _ the
Louisiana Building Material
Dealers Association, died Aug. 3,
2003. He served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II before attending
W&L. He was a member of Beta
‘Theta Pi social fraternity and
worked for the Ca/yx.

Ralph D. Keightly Jr. "51iL

died Sept. 8, 2003. He was a World
War II veteran, serving in the
Army on the U.S.S. Comfort. In
addition to private practice in
Charleston and Lewisburg, W.Va.,
he was selected by the Greenbrier
County Bar to act as special judge
for the 11th Circuit. A former
trustee of Old Stone Presbyterian

Church, he was the organist for
over 25 years.

Robert E. L. Batts Jr. "52,
retired investment broker, died
Sep. 1, 2003. He was a captain in
the Marines with a_ helicopter
assault squadron during the
Korean War. He was an ardent
scholar of military history and was
a member of Phi Delta ‘Theta
social fraternity.

J. Bowyer Bell '53,

artist, critic, writer and expert on
terrorism, died Aug. 28, 2003. He
was a contemporary of Cy
‘Twombly, Robert Rauschenburg
and the abstract expressionist
movement. His books include a
study of the Irish Republican
Army, the Italian Mafia and, most
recently, Murders on the Nile: The
World Trade Center and Global
Terror. He worked for the Council
for Foreign Relations and at
Columbia University as a research
associate in the Institute of War
and Peace Studies. He was the
recipient of several Guggenheim
Fellowships for his research and
won a Pollock-Krasner Fellowship
for his paintings.

Lafe C. Chafin '53L

died Aug. 1, 2003, in the Morris
Memorial Nursing Home in
Huntington, W.Va., of which he
was a co-owner. He was a founding
partner of Barrett, Chafin, Lowry,
Amos and McHugh, a Cabell
County prosecuting attorney and a
tireless advocate of the labor
movement. He was a member of

Phi Alpha Delta.

J. Wilmer Benjamin Jr. 54
died Nov. 10, 2002. He was a vet-
eran of the Korean War. He was a
member of Sigma Nu social frater-
nity and received the Mahan
Award for Creative Writing as a
freshman.

Charles R. Thomas Jr. '54,
retired administrator in the
Virginia State Health Department,
died March 20, 2003. He was a
Navy veteran of World War II. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

John L. Hare '56,

retired contract engineer, died
Aug. 31, 2003. He was a member
of Kappa Sigma social fraternity

and played two years of football at
W&L.

A L U MN Tt N E W S

 

Paul E. Clayton '57, '59L,
retired managing director of
Goodyear Germany, died Sept. 16,
2003. He was a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity and man-
ager of the baseball team.

The Hon. Norman C.
Roettger Jr. '58L,

the first full-time federal judge in
Fort Lauderdale, Fla., died July
26, 2003. He served three years in
the Navy and retired as a captain in
the Naval Reserves. He served as
chief judge from 1991 until he
“retired” in 1997; he continued to
accept a large caseload and trav-
eled the district as a senior judge.
With his handlebar mustache and
conservative philosophy, he invit-
ed comparisons to ‘lheodore
Rosevelt.

Daniel W. Kling '59

died in the home he grew up in on
July 13, 2003. While at W&L, he
was a manager of the football team
for four years.

Dr. Harrison H. Alley ’60,
a pediatrician who made house
calls in Albuquerque, N.M., died
Aug. 4, 2003. He was a member of
Phi Delta Theta social fraternity
and the lacrosse team. He toured
Australia with the U.S. lacrosse
team in 1959. He also served in the
Army as a Chinese translator.

Curtis Crinell '60,

retired co-owner of Grinell ‘Travel
Agency in Rochester, N.Y., died
May 17, 2003. He was a member of
Delta Upsilon social fraternity.

H. Lee Israel ’6I,

retired analyst for the U.S.
Department of Defense, died July
28, 2003. He was a member of
Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity
and, more recently, a member of
the Doremus Society.

Austin C. Bray Jr. '63,
former legal staff representative for
the ‘Texas secretary of state, died
Sept. 19, 2003. In 30 years of legal
practice, he served as counsel to
several prominent government
officials in Washington and _ his
home state of ‘lexas. Bray was a
member of the Kappa Alpha Order
social fraternity and Pi Sigma
Alpha honor society.

John D. Streetman '63, '66L
died June 10, 2003. He served as
captain in the Army during the
Vietnam War. His many awards
include the Bronze Star, Air Medal

and Combat Infantryman’s Badge
and two awards from the Republic
of Vietnam for his efforts to evacy-
ate wounded civilians. After the
war, he operated several art gal-
leries in Aspen, Colo., and later
worked as a real estate broker in
Denver. He was a member of
Sigma Nu social fraternity.

Col. Robert E. Lee '64,
retired infantry officer, died Dec.
23, 2002. He began his military
career in June 1964 and served in
Vietnam and the Berlin Brigade.
He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha social fraternity and the
Graham-Lee-Washington Literary
Society.

Richard M. Drew ’65

died Sept. 15, 2003. He practiced
law in Durham, N.C., for 35 years
and was active in a number of state
and local organizations. He was a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha
social fraternity and the golf team.

William D. Hurley ’65L,
stockbroker, banker and attorney,
died June 23, 2003. He was a
founding member of the Potomac
School of Law in Washington.

Patrick C. Brooks '67

died Sept. 9, 2003. He served in
the 101st Airborne Division and
was awarded two Bronze Stars and
two Purple Hearts for his bravery
in Vietnam. He retired as inspector
general of the Department of
Energy in 1998. He invented and
distributed the 44 Magnum series
of cigar cutters.

Jay E. Parker '67

died June 30, 1997. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Phi social fra-
ternity.

Raymond J. Zeltner '69,
retired attorney, died March 29,
2001. He served in the Marines
during peacetime. He was a
member of Delta Upsilon social
fraternity.

Cary L. Avery '74

died July 21, 2003. He worked for
several successful mayoral cam-
paigns in Atlanta, as well as a pres-
idential campaign for Jimmy
Carter.

Bruce F. MacFarlane ‘79,
environmental defense lawyer,
died July 31, 2003. While at W&L,
he was editor in chief of the Law
News and a member of the Legal
Aid Society. +

 

40

Wee 1

A Leni

MAGA ZI he

PHOTOS PATRICK TFLIMELY — MING

Rene.

Ing Wee

|
Py

1

S
NS
S
=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lhe Washington and Lee University NON PROFIT Ope

ALUMNI MAGAZINE v5. Post™
P A I D

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 22750  PEeRMa
NO. 508
WWW. Wid.éedu NORFOL

 

athered for the dedication of the John W. Elrod University Commons on Oct. 24, 2003.

 

oe C22 Ce oe

\

ad

ul

[od

|

