 

The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine ¥ AL. 2002

 
    

   

 

 

 

   

  

 

  

  

Pia ae oa ta ae Ur ae ee ee eae ee Se ae Joe a a A

Old and New Converge

a
Bare iy

i

.

   

   

  
   

WOODS07

MARY

1

B

PHOtO

Members of the Board, alumni, students,
faculty and friends watched Rector Frank
Surface ’60 administer the oath of office. ‘The
occasion also served to mark convocation for
seniors and third-year law students and the
start of the 2002-2003 academic year.

In his speech, Burish noted that only by
embracing change will W&L continue “to
accomplish what few others have” while
seeking greater achievement.

“Our predecessors did not work hard so that
we could rest—they worked hard to position
us to be even better,” said Burish. “I pledge
that I will work hard and do my best to meet
these responsibilities and expectations.”

Among the topics he addressed were
information technology, internationalization,
interdisciplinary studies, the Honor System
and the importance of a liberal arts education.

He noted that W&L must “never take the
faculty, or their commitment to teaching, for
granted.” Instead, the University must provide
faculty with more time and support to invigo-
rate their teaching by pursuing new scholarship.
“We will work together to identify priorities. We
will marshal the resources to advance them.
And we will make the difficult decisions required
to execute them, all the while preserving our
unchanging principles. The task of setting and
realizing our priorities will be the most critical

element in sustaining progress and advancing

the reputation of Washington and Lee.”

 

STUDENTS ENJOY THE WARM EVENING
ON THE FRONT LAWN.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
      
   

DURING HIS SPEECH, PRESIDENT BURISH PLEDGES TO po HIs
UTMOST FOR WASHINGTON AND LEE.

Ad OGLOGGd

1H avila ivd

~_ Ala

tL

PRESIDENT THOMAS BURISH
(RIGHT) AND HIS MENTOR FROM
VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY,
CHANCELLOR EMERITUS JOE B
WYATT IN WASHINGTON HALL,
MOMENTS BEFORE THE
CEREMONY BEGINS.

HOLT MERCHANT ’61, PROFESSOR
OF HISTORY. LEADS THE PROCES-
SION. BEHIND HIM, (FROM LEFT TO
RIGHT) ARE RECTOR FRANK SURFACE
760, PRESIDENT THOMAS BURISH
AND CHANCELLOR EMERITUS OF

VANDERBILT JOE B. WYATT.

   
 
 
 
  
        

co.

   
 

oe

PRESIDENT THOMAS BURISH RECEIVES CONGRATULATIONS A
CEREMONY. AT HIS SIDE IS THOMAS WILLIAMS, ACTING DEAN OF THE

FTER T
CoLLeS

- 1
nr A : F
To hear President Burish’s speech, visit newsoffice.wlu.edu/BurishInaugSite/BurishInaugVid°

 

 

 

rCure OF Tin ey ! By Dick Anderson

Self-professed “Anti-Hefner” Leif Ueland ’88 bares his soul in Accidenta/ Playboy.

£ AN t Ap
Moa 120 G

— i ee Wlloing ee

A 7 WAS ALN GC FO ‘ Pe 0 Nv RRS gy

 

REID HALLE BREMAL SSA Ce 1 By Lori Stevens

Old and new converge in the journalism school.

eee ARID. ACT. T-0O..b.QOL Low | Series By Christine Leontie

The play’s the thing behind the stories of these theater buffs.

m LULLABY POLE PING Tor 1 By Lori Stevens

W&L couples share their adoption stories.

- = © A R TY M EON Tf 8s

 

ER acunn, PRESIDENT’S

EM tue COLONNADE a wa LAW

Burish- ’ Phe full Classroom technology; remembering Career advice; classroom dedication;
_ - full-service preside

| President 9/11; campus news. endowed chairs.

PA te® +t COS ee 6 ESS

a. MY cenerais’ REPORT epee: ac
“FENt Opinions on diversity.

Fitness Center opens to rave reviews. New board members, class rings; new

DAE E SO ERSEPAESEE OL O8 4 £8454 56044 OES 6 iS OS ce Web site.

Cover photo illustration by Bart Morris

 

 

VOLUME 77 | NUMBER 2
FALL 2002

© Washington and Lee University

Thomas White | Director of Communications
and External Relations

Louise Uffelman | Acting University Editor

Brian Laubscher | Sports Editor

Dick Anderson, Agnes Flak '03,

Christine Leontie, Susan Slopek '03,

Lori Stevens, Colin Tate 'O1 | Contributors

Mary Woodson | Designer

Bart Morris, Morris Design | Art Director

Patrick Hinely ‘73 | University Photographer

Published by Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va. 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alummi Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Periodicals
postage paid at Norfolk, Va.

Board of Trustees
J. Frank Surface Jr. 60, Rector
Thomas G. Burish, President

Michael D. Armstrong 77 (Atlanta)

C. DuBose Ausley ’59 (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Chris B. Ball (Jacksonville, Fla.)

Edward L. Bishop IIT °68 (Flourtown, Pa.)
Wilham P Boardman °63, 691 (Wilmington, Del.)
Susan Lewis Butler (Washington)

J. Donald Childress °71 (Atlanta)

Joseph H. Davenport IIT ’69 (Lookout Mountain, Tenn.)
Waller T: Dudley ’74 (Alexandria, Va.)

John R. Farmer ’61 (London, England)

Wilham H. Fishback Jr. 56 (Ivy, Va.)

John W. Folsom °73 (Columbia, S.C.)

Wilham R. Goodell SoL. (Bronxville, N.Y)

Ray V. Hartwell IIT ’69, °75L (Richmond)

Wilham B. Hill Jr. °74, 77. (Atlanta)

A.C. Hubbard ’59, °62L. (Baltimore)

Rupert H. Johnson Jr. 62 (Hillsborough, Calif.)
Wilham J. Kimmel ’69 (Bedford Hills, N.Y)

John Klinedinst 71, °78L (Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.)
Donald B. McFall ’64, 691. (Houston)

Thomas N. McJunkin °70 (Charleston, W.Va.)
Michael H. Monier ’62 (New York)

Philip W. Norwood 69 (Charlotte)

John W. Robinson IV ’72 (Tampa, Fla.)

Hatton C. V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)
Burton B. Staniar ’64 (Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.)
Margaret J. (Peggy) Steuart (Chevy Chase, Md.)
Matthew G. Thompson °64 (Richmond)

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63 (Salem, Va.)

Charlie (C.B.) Tomm 68, °75L (Atlantic Beach, Fla.)
Pamela J. White °77L. (Baltimore)

Phone and On-line Directory
Switchboard 540-458-8400

Publications Office 540-458-8956

Admissions Office 540-458-8710

Alumni Office 540-458-8464

Alumni Office E-Mail alumni@wlu.edu

| know firsthand that we have our-
selves a full-service president at

 

id veryone wants to know about our new president.

And it is understandable. We have only done this 24 times in our lengthy history.

So forget the Burish resume. Here are my personal observations: On freshmen

move-in day, while his own stuff was still in boxes in the Lee House, he was actually

helping some of the freshmen and their parents carry their things into the dorms. Later

that day, I was in the audience as he spoke to the parents of the incoming freshmen

WHO

IS PRESIDENT

 

about how he was also a new person to this extraordinary place, and I heard his pledge

about preserving our traditions.

I was also on hand for the inauguration in September. ‘There was a wonderful

speech from a colleague and mentor of President
Burish who spoke with respect and admiration for
our new president.

At this point, I thought things were sounding
pretty good, but the clincher was yet to come.
Alumni Director Rob Mish invited me to attend
the Charlotte Campaign Kickoff in late September.
‘The affair was held at the magnificent Duke
Mansion, which also provided accommodations for
the W&L contingent.

‘The next day, upon arriving home, I realized
that I had inadvertently left a shirt hanging in the
closet of our room at the Duke Mansion. I made a
mental note to give them a call later on to see if
they had found it, but quickly lost the thought in
the busy week that followed.

BILL WALLACE ’74, ’77L,
PRESIDENT,
W&L ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
BILLWALLACE@ALUMNI.WLU.EDU

 

‘The next weekend was Homecoming Weekend at Washington and Lee. The

activities of the Alumni Board that weekend included a gathering at the Rockbridge

Vineyards where Shep Rouse ’76 hosted a magnificent dinner and wine tasting. When

President Burish arrived for the dinner, I was prepared to offer a particularly witty

Washington and Lee.

 

and/or intelligent comment about world events
or some other impressive topic. When he caught
my eye, however, President Burish said: “I have
your shirt.” I responded: “Of course you do,” not

having any idea what he meant. It then occurred

to me that apparently someone at the Duke

Mansion caught President Burish as he was checking out and asked him what imbe-

cile left their shirt in Room 204. Before I could say anything witty or bright, President

Burish added: “I took it to the cleaners and I should have it tomorrow.”

Sure enough, during the Homecoming reception at the Lee House the next

evening, I walked up onto that historic veranda and Pamela Burish graciously whis-

pered to me so that no one else could hear: “Your shirt is hanging in the back hall.”

As the cocktail party ended, I crept into the back hall to find my shirt in perfect

order: On a hanger. No starch. Still covered in plastic.

Please don’t tell any of the trustees at Washington and Lee that the capital cam-

paign was hold for a couple of days while our new president and his wife were running

around town doing my laundry.

Career Services 540-458-8595
Development Office 540-458-8410
News Office 540-458-8460

Sports Information Office 540-458-8676
WL Sports Hotline 540-458-8998
W&L Home Page www.wlu.edu

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY Let me also say that I know firsthand that we have ourselves a full-service presi-

oN VA SNe cent at Washington and Lee. #

«JAN 17 «2003 Waehinugies and for Be A ou

 

M A G A ZiN &£

—,

So

Mixed Reviews

On behalf of the Brothers of Alpha
Omicron Delta of Chi Psi, we
write to express our disappoint-
ment with your biased reporting in
article, “Mixing It Up,”

appearing 1D the Spring/Summer

the

issue of the A/wmnt Magazine. In

your zeal to dramatize the article,

we feel you unfortunately failed to

live up to your journalistic respon-
sibilities.

In the opening paragraph to
the article, you leveled a serious,
damaging charge—that our
Fraternity refused to allow several
African-American women  stu-
dents to enter a party at our Lodge
based solely on their race—with-
out consulting a single member of
our Fraternity to confirm its valid-
ity. You identified our Brotherhood
as committing a racist act, a hefty
accusation with serious conse-
quences, without seeking any
comment from the very individu-
als against whom you raised this
charge. Indeed, elsewhere in the
article, you note other, far more
egregious acts of ethnic and racial
insensitivity, but do not identify
those groups, naming only Chi Psi
in the lead of your story. Had you
bothered to interview us, you
would have learned that the
events did not transpire as you
reported.

You have done a grave disser-
vice to Washington and Lee and
have committed an offense against
our Fraternity, which notably

By Mail: University Editor
Washington and Lee
Mattingly House
Lexington, VA 24450

By E-Mail: magazine@wlu.edu

By Fax: 540-458-8024

Ad letters Should be s

a 1gned and include the
be, “ » Name, address and daytime phone num-
: Dc f — :
“ler selected for publication may be edited

for
- ‘ength, content and style, Signed articles n oflect
é EWS Of their authors and not necessarily
ase -
Of the editoria, board or the University,

among the University’s fraternities
has a history of inclusion, rather
than exclusion. The article raises
serious issues, the merits of which
should be discussed and debated
at Washington and Lee. But
through your eager and reckless
reporting, seeking to open the
story with a “zinger,” you have
shifted the focus from a positive
debate on the underlying issues to
your own lapse in journalistic
ethics.

Lathrop B. Nelson III ’97

President, Alumni Corp.,

Philadelphia

Grant T. Dragan ’03
President, Chi Psi,
Lexington

I was particularly struck by the
following paragraph that appeared
on page 29 of the Spring/Summer
issue of WEL Alumni Magazine:

“Diversity was an issue in the
search for a new president accord-
ing to Harlan Beckley, professor of
religion and director of the
Shepherd Program for the inter-
disciplinary study of poverty, who
headed the presidential search
committee. ‘The selection of
‘Thomas G. Burish by the Board
reinforces this commitment.”

Pm sure both Beckley and
Burish are outstanding individuals
and educators, but I fail to see how
the selection of yet another white,
middle-aged male as president
pushes the diversity envelope.

I, for one, would have been far
more impressed with the
“progress” being made at W&L
had the university announced the
selection of an African-American
candidate, a Hispanic candidate, a
woman candidate, or any other
qualified candidate who broke
with tradition.

Dean Golembeski 74

Torrington, Conn.

Tam thrilled about the diversi-
ty subject being addressed on
campus. For once I was excited
about something written in the

 

Alumm Magazine. Keep up the
awesome work.
Alice Cockrum "99
Knoxville, Tenn.

Reading the most recent issue
of the Adunni Magazine, | noticed
with outrage, and certainly not for
the first time in a university pub-
lication, that cover to cover, page
after page after page, we see
about 95 percent men being por-
trayed as intellectuals, hard work-
ers, fighters for justice, leaders,
etc. while the 5 percent of
women portrayed are presented
either with a baby in their arms,
dancing and looking silly, or occa-
sionally getting a sports award
and being presented only indi-
rectly for their achievements, as
they are seen worrying for their
male relatives in the military, or
next to their retiree husbands.

‘The only female portrayed for
intellectual achievements alone is
Agnes Flak ’03, and that article is
practically drowned in a sea of
man praising. Women faculty and
students, though still a minority
in terms of numbers, are at the
very center of the intellectual,
academic, social life of the univer-
sity. hey produce ground-break-
ing scholarship, win national and
international awards, write impor-
tant books, produce shows and
artwork, evidence themselves
nationally in sports, run programs,
administer. Continuing to mar-
ginalize the accomplishments
and experiences of women as
professionals, as creators, as lead-
ers is simply counter-intuitive
and can only damage our reputa-
tion as a serious, just and modern
institution of learning.

Domnuca Radulescu
Associate Professor of
Romance Languages

It is praiseworthy that the
Alumni Magazine does not shrink
from highlighting our failings
along with our successes.

I mention particularly the alco-

hol and drug problems and the

 

cl Lee ee Ada

M A GA Zim EE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

BSS

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.

Officers

Wilham P Wallace Jr:’74, 771, President (Roanoke.)

James R. Brooks ’77, Vice President (Houston)

Russell W. Chambliss 74, Immediate Past President
(Birmingham, Ala.)

Robert WH. Mish IIT ’76, Executive Secretary and

Director of Alumni Programs (Lexington)

Directors

Dianne Makosky Ackerman g1 (Mornstown, N.J.)
Amy C. Balfour ’89, 93L. (Manhattan Beach, Calif.)
Wilham M. Ball IIT ’69 (Jacksonville, Fla. )
Barry O. Barlow ’77 (Louisville, Ky.)

J. Gregory Barrow ’87 (Littleton, Colo.)

Emily C. Bevill ’’89 (Boston)

Roger G. Bowers 94. (Richmond)

John M. Cleghorn ’84 (Charlotte, N.C.)

Elizabeth A. Cummins ’Sg (Nashville)

James W. DeYoung ’65 (Chicago)

J. Thad Elis IT ’82 (Atanta)

John M. Falk ’86, "901. (Washington)

Lee M. Hollis ’86 (Birmingham)

Peter C. Keefe ’78 (Washington)

Hugh L.. Robinson IT 80 (Baltimore)

Bradley B. Root ’88 (Pittsburgh)

Devon A. McAllister Rothwell ’92 (San Francisco )
William W. Schaefer 60 (Memphis, Tenn.)
Witham M. Toles 92, ’95L. (Dallas)

Edward 1: Taylor IT 81 (Memphis)

Edward P. Tiffey ‘901. (Charleston, W.Va.)

John C. Vlahoplus ’83, (New York City)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

James J. Kelley II ’74L., President (Washington)

David P. Falck ’78L, Vice President (New York City)

Lizanne Thomas ’821., Immediate Past President
(Atlanta)

Law Council

Robby J. Aliff 91, °97L. (Charleston, W.Va.)
Loranne Ausley “901. (Tallahassee, Fla.)

Damel T. Balfour ’63, °65L. (Richmond)

J. 1. Vance Berry, Jr.’79L (Jackson, Fla. )

Joseph W. Brown OSL (Las Vegas)

Matthew J. Cakvert’75, 791. (Atlanta)

Christine L.. Champlin ’90, °93L (Louisville, Ky.)
E.. Townes Duncan ’78L. (Nashville, Tenn. )

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L, (New York City)

The Hon. Michael L.. Krancer 831. (Harrisburg, Pa.)
Jenelle Mims Marsh ’81L (Tuscaloosa, Ala. )
Jessine A. Monaghan ’79L. (Washington)

James E. Nicholson ’77L, (Minneapolis, Minn.)
The Hon. Robert E:. Payne ’63, °67L (Richmond)
Jerrald J. Roehl ’71L. (Albuquerque, N.M.)
David G. Weaver ’81L (Roanoke, Va.)
Christopher Wolf ’SoL (Washington)

Willam A. Worthington ’76L. (Houston)
Richard 1! (Rick) Woulfe ’’76L. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla. )
Laura Anderson Wright ‘941. (College Park, Md.)

 

 

distance we have still to go for a truly diverse
student body (and faculty) and to make sure
every student has a positive social experience at
W&L. Even for the initial interview with the
new president elect, you didn’t just lob softball
questions.
Keep on telling it like it 1s.
Raymond D. Smith, Jr °55
Pound Ridge, N.Y.

It appears that W&L is obsessed and hell-
bent on trying to attract and cater to students
considered “diverse.” What I understand from
the magazine is that a “diverse” student is some-
one whose sexual orientation, religion, socioeco-
nomic background or race represents a statistical
minority in the W&L student body. I learned in
the Alumni Magazine that a full-time admis-
sions position has been created to solely focus on
recruiting minorities. I also learned that clubs
like the Gay-Straight Alliance, Black Female
Alliance, Muslim League and Empowering
Women Leaders have been created. Finally, I
learned that a W&L student now can take class-
es like Stereotyping and Discrimination, or
African-American Voices. It appears W&L
hopes that by implementing these things, the
school will become a melting pot where all dif-
ferent types of people will be treated equally
and live harmoniously with one another.

I assume [these new courses] are designed to
make us more sensitive to diverse backgrounds.
I think those courses are not only irrelevant, but
counterproductive to a student’s future.
Speaking from experience, if a new graduate
wants just about any job, he or she needs to have
hard-core skills, and these watered-down cours-
es that study things like women’s issues or the
folklore of Jamaican village she-devils do not do
the students any favors as far as getting them
ready to launch into the real world. I know a
good liberal arts education should make one
more well-rounded, but let’s stick to Faulkner
and Hemingway. If the courses are going to be
gender specialized, does the University plan to
offer interdisciplinary classes in men’s studies as
well? In “Mixing it Up,” a statement (Professor)
Beckley made reads “...Some courses have to be
those that help these ethnic students learn more
about their backgrounds and ethnic traditions
(p. 32).” Hogwash. It is the job of these people’s
families, churches, and local communities to
instill and preserve their cultural values,
not W&Ls.

Ramona Franks Hagmater ’93
Mobile, Ala.

Our spring/summer A/wmm Magazine, which
puts such high priority on furthering “diversity,”
raises more questions than it answers and leaves
me wondering whether faculty, students and
administrators are swallowing this policy whole.
It’s never been explained logically to me how
one can reconcile (A) our long-standing promo-
tion of academic excellence with (B) the top pri-
ority we seem to be placing on the promotion of
diversity. For me, an origins-blind standard of
academic excellence, for student admissions and
faculty recruitment, will get the best, period. It
will also get diversity.

‘This would be an honest diversity, one net-
ther engineered nor imposed. Honest diversity
needs none of the dogmas put about in the
Alumni Magazine. \t does not need to find justifi-
cation in the questionable argument that W&L
must make accommodations with the society in
which we live. If that is the measure, I fear we
will turn into just another four-year school.

What percentages of which racial, ethnic, sex-
ual and social-economic types constitute “diver-
sity” in the ideal student body and faculty? And
which of these types do we now have too many
of, and are less desirable than the others? And
when the outside world rates our future faculty
members, the results of “Mixing It Up,” will it
be awed by their “wide range of interests, abili-
ties and cultures?” Are these the new academic
standards?

Richard W. Hoover ’61
Front Royal, Va.

Few alumni would question, not just pub-
licly but in their heart of hearts, that W&L
should be open, welcoming and nurturing to
any and all who choose to attend. But the extent
to which the College should re-invent itself,
abandoning its proud and unique heritage in an
over-arching effort to achieve greater diversity,
is debatable.

While diversity may be laudable, the same
cannot be said for the stifling political correct-
ness, which seems to accompany it. Strangely,
diversity advocates rarely define inclusiveness
in a way that includes those with ideas more
conservative than their own; such persons are
not part of the otherwise rich and diverse
human tapestry, to be understood and appreci-
ated, but instead are seen as problems that need
to be fixed—or voices that need to be silenced.

“As an educator myself [at VMI], I have
always found it refreshing that W&L manages
to combine outstanding academic excellence

with a campus environment which avoids the

extremes of political correctness found in such
abundance elsewhere. Is it so unacceptable that
somewhere in the vast academic universe q
highly esteemed college exists with a predomi-
nately conservative and traditional ethos? It has
become a rare combination in modern acad-
eme, and apparently it is in the process of
becoming rarer still.

Cash Koeniger °71

Lexington, Va.

Legal Review

‘Thank you for an excellent article on Assistant
U.S. Attorney Robert Posey ’73 and his work on
the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing trials in
Birmingham, Ala. Given the burden of proof
required in a criminal case, it is extremely diffi-
cult to motivate a jury to convict, and especially
so 38 years after the fact. Robert is to be com-
mended for a job well done in what must be a
defining moment in his life; and our University
family can claim yet another alumnus who has
distinguished himself on a national scale.

James N. Nolan ’74

Shoal Creek, Ala.

I write in reference to the article “Against All
Odds” which appeared in the most recent issue
of the Adwnuni Magazine. \ find it remarkable that
the article is written with the implicit assump-
tion that a convicted murderer was unjustly exe-
cuted. We learn that in 1993 Juan Garza was sen-
tenced to be executed under the Federal Drug
Kingpin Act for the murder of three men. ‘That
is the totality of information about his crime.
The rest of the article reflects his attorneys’ view
that he was discriminated against, a view subse-
quently rejected by the Justice Department. We
learn that former Attorney General Janet Reno
and Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder, dur-
ing whose administration the sentence was pro-
nounced, were “troubled” by statistics indicat-
ing that, possibly, racial bias played a role in the
racial mix of men on federal death row in ‘Texas.
They called for “further analysis.” Aside from
the claim that Garza was a victim of discrimina-
tion, the article points out that Gregory
Wiercioch °92L, one of his appeal attorneys,
argued that “we could point to a number of cases
worse than Garza’s” in which the death penalty
was not sought. Worse? Six murders? ‘Twenty?
More critical distance might be called for in the

Alumni Magazine. +
James Hardin ’60
Spring Island, S.C.

 

 

 

;
5

 

 

 

SLATE BOARD OR OVERHEAD PROJECTOR? AL MCRAE,

USES BOTH

For the past several years, classrooms in the Law School and the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics have steadily
been outfitted with touch panels, multimedia equipment, video

recording and network and power hookup capabilities. At the touch of

a button, faculty have instant
access to the Supreme Court, the
stock market or CSPAN—any-
thing they need from the Web.
From the same panel they can

show video clips or project over-
heads.

Under the guiding hand of Carole Bailey, classroom technology

administrator, several classrooms along the Colonnade—Robinson 6,

Newcomb 9 and Payne 21—treceived crucial techno-
logical upgrades, as well as cosmetic attention over
the summer. It’s all part of her ongoing plan to pro-
vide faculty in the College with the technology they
need to teach their classes. “I invited all departments
Who use these classrooms to talk with me. Before I
changed anything, I wanted their input on how they
used the classroom space and what technology

would help them the most.”

T

m6 Co tO NM N A’ OD E

 

 

 

Technology Upgrades

This Old Classroom

Offer Teachers More Options

Architectural moldings dis-
guise the rolled-up screen
and the touch panel hides
within a lecturn carefully

modeled after the one

in Lee Chapel.

 

 

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely ’73

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS,
IN THE NEWLY RENOVATED ROBINSON HALL CLASSROOM.

Robinson 6 was a collaborative project. Bailey worked with ‘lom
Contos, University architect, the mathematics department and local
architect Fred Kirchner to retain the room’s 1930s features, such as the

schoolhouse lights, bench desks and slate chalkboards, while bringing

technology to the fingertips of the
faculty. “We really wanted to keep
the character of the room the
same,” she said. “It’s the only
classroom accessible from the
Colonnade, and it’s important to

preserve it.”

Architectural moldings disguise the rolled-up screen and the

touch panel hides within a lecturn carefully modeled after the one in

Lee Chapel. Wayne Dymacek, professor of mathe-
matics, said, “The technology is there, but it’s unob-
trusive.”

Payne 21 recerved minor cosmetic touches with its
technology installation. Newcomb 9 received the
works—new ceiling, new carpet, new upholstery for
the chairs, freshly painted walls and the technology
upgrade. But both now possess a feature that is sure to

make students and faculty happy—air conditioning.

 

 

pu @ we EE wd & ees

NM oe a Ae

   

THE € Oo LON NA DE

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

On Board

Joan O'Mara, director of the East
Asian Studies Program, was elected in
April to a three-year
term on the Board of
ASIANetwork, a
national consortium
of nearly 150 under-
graduate liberal arts
institutions that have

Asian Studies pro-

 

grams. In its 10 years
of existence, ASIANetwork has grown,
from a handful of schools, to become an
effective voice for the concerns of Asian
Studies programs at small liberal arts
institutions.

In recent years, O’Mara has
worked with members of ASIANet-
work to provide information about the
Washington and Lee East Asian
Studies Program for “Asian Studies at
American Private Colleges, 1808-1990,”
a chapter in the ASIANetwork publica-
tion Asia in the Undergraduate
Curriculum: A Case for Asian Studies in
Liberal Arts Education.

As part of her duties on the Board
of ASIANetwork, O’Mara will be pro-
gram chair for the upcoming annual
meeting, to be held in April 2003 at

Furman University in Greenville, S.C.

Elmes Elected Fellow

David C. Elmes, professor of psychol-
Oy,

was elected a fellow of the
A noe Sie 2 8
Psychological Society
in recognition of his
“distinguished contri-
butions to psychologi-
cal science.” Elmes,
who has taught at
W&L since 1967, is
co-editor, with Barry
Kantowitz and H.L.
of Research Methods tn

Roediger,
Psychology, 7th edition, 2002. Roediger

 

Photo by lan Bradshaw

n his first official act as president, Thomas Burish created

the office of the provost, filled by Laurent Boetsch ’69, former vice president for academic

affairs and dean of the College. During Boetsch’s stint as acting president during 2001-2002,

his previous positions were split between two faculty members while the search for a new

president went on. The provost position evolves that model a step further, replacing the posi-

ee ee Ol

 

tion of vice president for academic
affairs.

But just what does this new
office entail? Provost Boetsch ex-
plains: “A provost is not an academi-
cally cut and dry thing. In our case the
provost is going to be chief academic
officer of the institution. Everything
that has to do with academics across
the University, that becomes my
responsibility.”

As dean of the College, Boetsch
oversaw matters for the sciences and
humanities, and as vice president for
academic affairs, he managed acade-
mic support programs, such as the
library, University computing and
international education. Without los-
ing any of his duties as vice president
for academic affairs, Boetsch’s job
now encompasses all the academic
programs in the University, including
the Law School and the Williams
School. Boetsch will have a hand in
everything from admissions to special
programs to financial aid.

Washington and Lee’s require-

ments for the position are unique. The presence of the Williams School and the Law School

makes W&L different from its peer institutions. Consequently, the University cannot follow

the models of larger universities.

 

“This really is our own version
of a provost,” said Boetsch.

As part of this restructuring to

 

create an even more efficient orga-
nizational structure, the office of the

vice president for administration

 

 

  

was established. That person will

oversee the personnel office, busi-

“A provost is not an academically cut and

dry thing. In our case the provost is going to

be chief academic officer of the institution.

Everything that has to do with academics

across the University, that becomes my
responsibility.”

ness operations such as the bookstore and all programs closely aligned with the physical plant

and dining services. A national search for this position has been launched. Other changes this

year include a new acting dean of the college filled by H. Thomas Williams, the Edwin A.

Morris Professor of Physics. The organizational chart detailing all the changes can be viewed

at Attp./[newsoffice.wlu.eduforg.himl

—Susan Slopek °03

 

 

 

THE Oe © oy es ee ee ae» ee

 

 

Photo by Mary Woodson

JULY 25 Se MILNER oe DIRECTOR OF THE See
S PROGRAM, ANNOUNCED TO A CROWD OF SUPPORTERS GATH-
THE ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY COURTHOUSE STEPS THAT SHE
nS oe THE VIRGINIA HOUSE OF DELEGATES IN A SPECIAL
AS aod) IN Le |

 

Pohtucal Ties

When Vance Wilkins resigned from Virginia’s House of Delegates earlier this year, several candidates
from the area vied for the seat in the 24th district, which includes Lexington, Buena Vista and
Rockbridge County.

What made this special November election so interesting was the connection these candidates had
with Washington and Lee University.

In August, Mimi Milner Elrod, director of Summer Scholars and wife to the late President John W.
Elrod, beat Rodney ‘Taylor ’83 of Amherst County in the Democratic primaries. She joined the race
because she wanted to do something that would put her “in touch with lots of people.”

Elrod’s Republican opponent was Ben Cline, the son of Phil Cline ’67, the Lewis Whitaker Adams
Professor of Management/Economics, and Julie Cline, W&Ls news office manager. He resigned his
position as chief of staff for Congressman Bob Goodlatte ’77L, 6th district of Virginia, and returned home

to run his own campaign for office.

Literary Accolades

 

Rod Smith's book Messenger was named the Library of Virginia’s Poetry Book of the Year at
a banquet in Richmond on Sept. 21. In an interview with the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Smith
noted that writing requires a lot of hard work done mostly in isolation. “It’s just you and 26
letters, and you’ve seen them all before. People
will say let’s go over and watch ‘Tiger Woods shoot
a practice round, but nobody goes over to watch
Don DeLillo write a first draft.”

Smith also commented on the significance of
the award going to a poet. “Poetry is to some
extent one of the more invisible underground
rivers of culture.”

His story “And I Have Lost My Right,”

which offers an alternative theory about the events

EDITOR OF
WITH NOVELIST

ROD SMITH,
SHENANDOAH,
MeeeyY LEE SETTLE AT THE
LIBRARY OF VIRGINIA’S BANQUET.

following the wounding of Stonewall Jackson,
appears this month in New Stories From The South
2002: The Year's Best.

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

is a 1969 graduate of Washington and
Lee and chairs the department of psy-
chology at Washington University in
St. Louis. Kantowitz holds a double
professorship at the University of
Michigan in industrial and operational

engineering and psychology.

Best Paper

Eduardo Velasquez, associate profes-
sor of politics, received the Rowman
and Littlefield Prize for Best Paper in
Literature and Politics, at the 2001
Annual Meeting of the American
Political Science Association. ‘The prize
carries a modest stipend. Entitled
“Where the Wild Things Are’: Re-
Creation, Fall, Re- and In-surrection in
Chuck Palahniuk’s -zght Club,” the
paper will appear in his forthcoming
book, Love and Friendship: Rethinking
Politics and Affection in Modern Times.

Fulbright for LeBlanc

Robin M. LeBlanc, associate professor of
politics, received a Fulbright grant to con-
duct research in Japan
this fall at Rikkyo
University. She is
working on a_ project

titled “Can A Good

Man Do Good?
Masculinity and Power
in Japanese Local

Politics.” “This project

 

continues her initial
research carried out in 1999 with the sup-
port of the Japan Society of the Promotion

of Science.

Health Care Model for
Faculty, Staff

Kevin Creen, professor of accounting,
joined the steering committee of Mellon
College Retirement Project, a large
nationwide project funded by the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation. ‘The central mis-

sion 1s to investigate the development of a

 

 

Wo @ eA wm @ tiem a and

THE COL ON N A DE

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

new model aimed at providing an afford-
able, high quality, cost effective and
nationally available medical benefit plan
for retiring faculty and staff of national lib-

eral arts col-
‘The

plan would

leges.

be structured
on the basis
of a consor-
tium of insti-

tutions and

 

prefunded
during the working years of the benefi-
ciaries.

“At the moment, there is a wide
variety of post-65 retirement health
benefits for faculty and staff among lib-
eral arts colleges, with some institutions
offering no postretirement health bene-
fits at all and some offering defined
benefit plans that are quite generous,”
said Green. “At the same time, some
existing plans cover retired faculty and

staff and others cover faculty only.”

Racial Wage Cap

Art Coldsmith, the Jackson T:
Stephens professor of economics and
department head, received a National
Science Foundation grant entitled
“Workforce
Cooperation, Skin Shade and Compe-

Diversity, Co-worker
titiveness: Wage Determination of
Black and Hispanic Americans Recon-
sidered?” to conduct research over the
next two years. He leads the research
team, composed of William Darity Jr.,
Boshamer Professor of Economics at
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill; Darrick Hamilton, a Robert Wood
Johnson Fellow at Yale University; two
eraduate students from UNC Chapel
Hill; and three W&L undergraduate
research assistants.

‘The primary purpose of the fund-
ed projects is to investigate why there is
a racial or ethnic wage gap—why

African Americans and Hispanics—

 

Photo by Louise Uffelman

 

As September begins, so does the travel season for members of the admissions office. Airport
lines, rental cars and hotel lobbies tend to blur into one seemingly endless trip. Yet, | have been
fortunate enough to experience some of my most meaningful travel as part of my job in admissions,

‘There is just something a bit more

exotic about the trip when the air-

NTR

ports and hotels are in ‘lokyo,
Hong Kong and Bangkok.

Over the years, I’ve survived
typhoons, earthquakes, political
strife and total exhaustion on my
travels to Asia. I wouldn’t trade the
experiences for anything. And
while my work in admissions is
always rewarding, I think my time
in Asia has given me some of the
best memories in terms of meeting
students. Not all of my colleagues
can say they have interviewed a
student while overlooking Seoul or
met a student at a college fair in
Kathmandu. As difficult as the
travel can be, and, trust me, it is
exhausting at times, I never really
want to come home.

‘This fall marked my fourth
trip to Asia as part of a recruiting

Is ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
W&L

KELLY KOPCIAL rr

oy eae aol ae a tour of 26 college admissions offi-
cers. | have just returned from the
2002 tour and must say that is was one of the best I have taken. Not only was I able to re-establish
contact with students and counselors at some of the best schools in Asia, I was also given the chance

to see old friends and reacquaint myself with some of my favorite spots in the world.

Sept. 6, Los Angeles: Another Asia tour ready to begin. ‘The group 1s about half newbies and
half veterans to the tour. Funny to think I’m in the latter group.

Sept. 10, Tokyo, Japan: Before our visit to the America School in Japan we spent an hour to
see the Meiji Shrine. I was amazed by the peaceful surroundings and sense of serenity I found in
the middle of ‘Tokyo. I was able to wander the paths and enjoy the garden-like feel of the shrine
in acity where I normally get swept up in the hustle of traffic and pedestrians. No traffic noise here,
only the caw of crows, sound of running water and occasionally crack of hand clapping, as the
monks honor the shrine.

Sept. II, Beijing, China: ‘This year’s tour marked my first long period abroad since Sept. 11
and as such made the one-year anniversary especially poignant to me and my fellow travelers.
Being half a world away on the day commemorating the tragedy was difficult to handle. Feeling
disconnected from our campuses and not being able to share in the community activities was a sore
point for many of us. Yet, we came together 1n a hotel room in Beijing and mourned and remem-
bered as a group.

Sept. 14, Xian, China: The terracotta warriors were amazing. The estimated 8,000 warriors
and horses are divided between three major sites and represent only a small look at what could be
buried in the area surrounding Xian.

The weekend cultural tours on the trip are always a treat. ’'ve seen the Great Wall, the ‘Taj
Mahal, Mount Everest and the Chang Kai Chek Memorial, but I must admit the Xian ranks up
there with all of them.

 

,. Es i oh

Meek GS 2A eZ |

THE eae ae We o Bt” ee By Ma a

 

 

Sept. 16, Hong Kong, SAR, China: Hong Kong has to be my favorite stop on the tour. The
mixture of old-world culture and modern architecture and action is fascinating. ‘The ride to Hong
Kong International School alone is worth the trip. The steep rise of tropical hills and winding roads
overlooking the South China Sea make for a wild bus ride to our college fair. An evening in the city
is never boring, either. Shopping at the night market or strolling along the Harbor are definite must
dos for any visit.

Sept. 18, Bangkok, Thailand: If you can look past the traffic, Bangkok is a great place to visit.
Taking a long boat tour is not only a great way to avoid the traffic, but a wonderful way to see the
city and its culture. Our visit to the Reclining Buddha and the Royal Palace were fascinating. Every
bone you think you have seen the most striking pagoda possible, a new one comes into view. But
all of this is eclipsed by the feel of rushing along in a long boat as the city whips past. Seeing the
floating markets and riverside temples was worth the white knuckle ride.

Sept. 20, Singapore: Singapore is peaceful and modern at the same time. Given the mixture
of Asian cultures found on the island, I never get bored here. And while dining on the boat quay
and being able to pick out which live crab you want for dinner may not be for everyone, it is one of

the best times I’ve had on the trip.

French Invasion

 

Domnica Radulescu, associate professor of Romance languages, organized the André
Malraux and Cultural Diversity Symposium in collaboration with the French Malraux
Association and the French Embassy in Washington. The colloquium, held on campus Oct.
31-Noy. 1, concluded Nov. 2 in Washington with roundtable talks at the French Embassy and
a visit to the National Gallery.

Malraux, whose influence as a writer, art historian and statesman played a crucial role in
decentralizing and diversifying French culture, has been the subject of renewed interest
worldwide. As Radulescu explained, “In 2001, I attended ceremonies and presented papers at
events commemorating the 5th anniversary of his ashes being placed in the Panthéon, the 25th
anniversary of his death and the 100th anniversary of his birth, so a lot of scholars are revisit-
ing his work.” ‘This year there were only two other colloquia on Malraux in the U.S.—at
Harvard and Columbia.

Radulescu, who wrote a book on Malraux and is the founding editor of the Malraux
Newsletter, planned this international colloquium to feed into her advanced French seminar.
“This colloquium is an excellent forum for my students to see how other scholars approach
Malraux’s works and how French and Francophone scholars think and perform scholarship.
It’s very different from what they’ve seen so far.”

About 10

France, ‘Tunisia, Brazil and the

scholars from

United States attended and pre-
sented papers at the bilingual col-
loquium. Their talks covered such
diverse topics as “Haiti and the
of “ihe
Importance of Africa in Malraux’s
Reflections on Art” and “Malraux
and India.”

Plurality Forms,”

Support for this project came
from Radulescu’s Class of 65 and
J. Edwin Treakle Foundation :

grants, the University Lectures a :
DOMNICA RADULESCU, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

Series and the department of

Romance languages.

OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES

 
  

Photo by Louise Uffelman

 

Credit Worthy

 

earn less than whites with comparable
talents and skills. Goldsmith and his co-
authors think that a person’s skin tone
may be responsible for part of the
observed wage differences. They argue
that co-workers may allow skin tone to
influence cooperation and skill sharing
between employees in the workplace in
ways that favor lighter-skinned blacks
and Hispanics relative to their col-
leagues with darker skin tone. Their
research, using data drawn from a num-
ber of national data sets will investigate
the link between co-workers, skin tone

and wages.

Party Politics

the John K.

of Politics,

William Connelly,
Boardman Professor
received a Dirksen
Congressional Center
Research Award for
his ~ bhe
Roots of Legislative

project,

Strategy in American
Political Thought.”
Connelly is in-

vestigating how con-

 

gressional party lead-
ers, in seeking to gain or retain a party
majority, should play politics and pur-
sue policy in Congress in preparation
for the next election. His study will
probe such questions as whether peo-
ple can find the key to congressional
party strategy in the philosophies of
James Madison and Woodrow Wilson
on the nature of Congress and the sep-
aration of powers.

Connelly intends to explore how
competing understandings of the sepa-
ration of powers influence the practice

and theory of legislative party politics.

National Identity

Sociology Professor Krzysztof Jasiewicz
received two grants: one from the

International Research and Exchanges

 

Washington and tas Se ss be ce M

 

aoe COLON N'A OE

 

 

Credit Worthy

Board and the second from the Global
Partners Project funded directly by the
Mellon Foundation. His research project
“Reluctantly European? Ideological and
Structural Sources of Euro-Skepticism in
Poland,” studied Poland’s membership in
the European Union, which has been the

subject of political debate.

Celebrating Lincoln

Lucas Morel, assistant professor of poli-
tics, has been invited to serve on the
scholars advisory panel of the Lincoln
Bicentennial Commission.

As a Lincoln specialist and national
committee member, Morel will help the
commission plan events celebrating the
approaching 200th anniversary of
Lincoln’s birth in 2009. Morel and other
committee members also are slated to
brief President George W. Bush on their

work.

National Rankings

U.S. News and World Report ranked W&L
15th among national liberal arts schools.
Comparisons to other schools place W&L

sixth in faculty

ss a

ST

i
tf
i

resources, ninth
in alumni giving
and 10th in stu-
dent selectivity.

‘The same re-
port also placed
W&L fourth in
the category
“Great Schools at
(eat =Poices,”
with W&L the only institution in Virginia
and the South to make the top 10 in that
category.

In the 2002 edition of 7he Princeton
Review, Washington and Lee faculty were
listed as first in the category “Profes-
sors Get High Marks” and third for
“Professors Make ‘Themselves Acces-
sible.” “The rankings are based on what
current college students say about their

respective schools.

At precisely 8:46 a.m. the bell at Lee Chapel began to toll, along with the bells at churches
in the area, as part of the national Let Freedom Ring Project. ‘The 8:46 a.m. time represented the
moment that American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the north tower of the World ‘Trade Center,
Most on campus paused for
a moment of silence.

For some, the moment

9/11 A YEAR LATER

came while at the Co-op or
in a dorm room. For others,
an English or psychology
class. Each one of us
remembers the moment we
heard about the attacks for
the first time.

The World ‘Irade
Center disappeared in a
heap of dust on Sept. 11, but
the tragedy of the event
became part of everyone for
‘The
interactive forum on the

office Web
helped locate those that

months after that.

DURING A CANDLELIGHT SERVICE ON THE FRONT
LAWN, STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF SANG
“AMAZING GRACE” AND LISTENED TO REMARKS BY
TOM LITZENBURG ’57, ACTING UNIVERSITY CHAP-
LIN, AND PROVOST LAURENT BOETSCH ’69.

alumni site
were thought lost in the
buildings or on one of the
planes. ‘The campus com-
munity grew closer as relationships strengthened. It did not matter whether you were American,
Pakistani or Argentinean; whether you were from New York, Los Angeles or Washington.
Provost Laurent Boetsch ’69, who joined other speakers at Virginia Military Institute to mark
the one-year anniversary of Sept. 11, said, “When I look back on how our campus responded to
the events of 9/11, I am gratified by the special strength of the fiber of the Washington and Lee
community. We came together in ways that we might never have anticipated: in silent vigil; in
gatherings of Muslims, Jews and Christians in fellowship and common purpose; in serious reflec-
tion about our objective and mission as
The campus community grew closer an educational institution in a world
as relationships strengthened. It did not which was suddenly not the one to

matter whether you were American, which we awoke one year ago today.”

 

Pakistani or Argentinean; whether you Kyle Meehan ’05 was a freshman

were from New York, Los Angeles of only a few weeks when the tragedy

 

or Washington. hit. She spent a few agonizing hours

 

that day until she finally heard that her
dad who worked in the World Trade Center was alive. “Dean [Dawn] Watkins was amazing,” said
Meehan. “She did not send my dorm counselor to see me or an e-mail, but she personally came
to find out if I was OK. That is when I realized how wonderful this school is.”

For Meehan, Sept. 11 was a wake-up call. Reading the New York Times and paying atten-
tion to issues that face the nation and the world are now a daily routine for her. “Students on the
W&L campus too often forget about the surrounding world. We feel as though we live in a peace-
ful bubble and nothing can harm us while in Lexington,” she said. “We need to remember that
we are still at war.”

The attacks on the World Trade Center have sparked a campus-wide debate on terrorism and
the nation’s role at the worldwide scale. While a Winter Term course designed by politics Professor
Robert Strong explored the roots of terrorism in all its political and cultural manifestations, the

topic was on the agenda of many other W&L classrooms.

 

 

 

Photos by Patrick Hinely ’73

 

 

Photo by Steve Desjardins

Ts eS ee ee ee

 

 

Senior Raphael Penteado from Sao Paolo,
Brazil, saw the discussions as a step in the
right direction, transforming the opinions
and of both

Americans alike.
“The debate gave many international

international and

lives

students an opportunity to talk and to be
heard, because other American students
wanted to understand why and how there
are people out there that hate the U.S. so
much,” said Penteado. “I think the debate
created a general awareness and under-
standing for international politics and cul-
tural differences.”

2002, the

Washington and Lee community once

When on Sept. 11,

CHI PSI LOWERED ITS FLAG TO HALF-

STAFF IN HONOR OF FELLOW BROTHER

CMDR. ROB SCHLEGEL ’85, WHO DIED
IN THE PENTAGON.

again gathered for a candlelight service on
the front lawn, it was agreed that the past
12 months had an impact on each one of
us. We have had time to blame, to question, to reevaluate what one has taken for granted so far.
Meehan sees each day marked by last year’s struggles. “I have reevaluated my relationships
on campus and want more meaningful ones,” she said. “I want substance in my life and I want to
live each day to its fullest. My attitude toward life and others is more gentle, more gracious and

more humble.”

—Agnes Flak ’03
Lhe A-Team

 

The Alsos Web group received a second grant, this one for $300,000, from the National Science
Foundation’s National Science, ‘Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Education Digital
Library (NSDL) program to continue work on the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues Web
site (alsos.wlu.edu). The interdisciplinary team of faculty and students are building the software
required to support and access the library, as well as writing and entering the annotations. Over

the summer, Scvence highlighted the Web site in its journal.

 

 

Credit Worthy

 

Japanese Auto Industry

Michael J. Smitka, professor of eco-
nomics, received a fellowship from the
Japan Foundation for his 2002 summer
research. His ongoing project examines
the status of restructuring in the domes-
tic Japanese auto industry, which saw
sales hit 13.5 million units in 1991 but
now is under 10 million units.

‘lo what extent have Japanese firms
lowered employment and trimmed plant
capacity? Smitka’s initial findings show few
firms have either closed factories or gone
beyond the use of attrition to cut payrolls,
thus many firms still have excess capacity.

Smitka’s findings are being incorpo-
rated into a publication that draws on a
presentation he recently made at the

Association of Japanese Business Studies.

Calendar of vents

Nov. 8-9: Journalism Ethics Institute:

 

Walker Lundy, editor and executive vice
president, 7he Philadelphia Inquirer.

Nov. 15-16: Business Ethics Institute.
Keynote speaker, R. Edward Freeman,
Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Busi-
ness and director of the Olsson Center for
Applied Ethics, University of Virginia.

Jan.17: Founders’ Day/ODK.
Keynote speaker, David McCullough.

Jan. 17-18: [Institute for Honor.

Jan 3i-Feb. 1: People of Color
Conference: “Law, Cultures and the
Philosophy of Science.”

Feb. 6-8: Board of ‘Irustees Meeting.

March 6: Phi Beta Kappa/Society of
the Cincinnati Convocation.

March [5: Parents Council Meeting.

March 21-22: Medical Ethics
Institute. Keynote speaker, James F
Childress, Hollingsworth Professor of
Ethics and professor of medical education,

University of Virginia.

 

 

U aMe Ne 41

 

Mia G AsZ> ioe FE

THE ae ee eo Wee ae ee een ee

 

 

ookshelf

 

  

Wa

YAW IC) BEEP
eons sas

tre we og

ORCANS 1. WIE comw,

 

  

Plan for Success

Motivation Levitation: How to Keep Your
Enthusiasm from Crashing to the Ground,
by Douglas ‘I. Webb ’81, outlines posi-
tive steps to improve staff morale and
performance while reducing absen-

teeism and turnover.

 

Quintessential Businessman

Andrew Kilpatrick *65 chronicles the
life and times of one of the richest men
in America in Of Permanent Value: The
Story of Warren Buffett.

LWIA oredr a

 

Interpreting David Hume
Lad Sessions, the Jim and Jo Ballengee

250th Anniversary Professor of Philo-

concentrates

 

sophy. on previously
unexplored questions of piety and the-
ology in the philosophy of religion in
Reading Hume’s Dialogues: A Veneration

for True Rehgion.

he day broke cloudy at first light, and the wind was up as well,
It was discouraging to see the top of the trees so agitated on a morning that would require so much
time out of doors. Still the mood of the group was buoyant at breakfast in the hotel’s glass con-
servatory. At 9 a.m. we left for our tour of the Trotternish Peninsula, the highest arm of Skye’s
jagged profile. As it turned out, the drive was spectacular, the wind whipping across the long grass
of the moors, chasing the low clouds up and over the coastal peaks.

We made our first stop at
the Museum of Highland
Life, a clutch of crofters hous-
es arrayed on a hillside like a
small flock of sheep in poor
weather. ‘he houses were
small, squat structures, built of
stone with thatch roofs. The
present owner's father predict-
ed several years ago a public
interest in learning more about
the crofter’s life, so he rescued
the abandoned buildings from
further ruin. Cleverly pre-
served and stocked with an
exhaustive supply of memora-
bilia and explanation, the site
proved well worth the visit.
For one thing, our guide Will

had stimulated our interest

 

with his many stories and
images of the Highland life. Now, several of these came back with abundant illustration.

Very near to the outdoor museum was the grave of Flora MacDonald, the Scottish heroine
of the 18th century, famous and revered for having saved Bonnie Prince Charlie from the British
after the defeat of his forces at the Battle of Colloden. The quarter mile walk to her grave in the
haling wind invigorated our imagination as well as our legs. At the top of the cemetery, with the
Isle of Skye rolling out to the sea in the distance, the clouds charging by like a herd of horses over-
head and the tall Celtic crosses
whistling in the wind, the place
had a certain mythic dynamism.
With the names and dates of the

 

- Feb. | a Cuba’ s Seven 7
March 12-21: Andalucia: Legendary Spain
April 4-17: People and Places of Peru:
A Photographic Safari

beloved dead inscribed on their

 

 

faces, the stones beheld it all—
cemeteries often seem to have
the best view of things.
‘Thereafter, we drove along
the Western Coast of the peninsula to Kilt Rock, a vantage point that offered a close-up view of
a waterfall and the cliffs fronting the sea between Skye and the mainland. One stretch of the cliffs
is supposed to resemble a tartan. Folks seemed to take as much interest in the heather, which was
just coming into bloom in the fields behind us. Indeed, Skye was beginning to turn purple, espe-
cially in the moors. In another week or so, the heather would be at its height, the last flower before
Skye’s brief autumn and the onset of winter.
—Rob Fure, Director of Special Programs

 

 

WT mAs mM 1 MAL G@ AsZs: ia Ne E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fe eg on: ay Oa ee ae eae

 

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely ’73

TUDENTS LEARN ABOUT W&L’S ACTIVITIES AND INTERNATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES DURING ORIENTATION.

 

éHablan Espanol?

 

They eat empanadas, learn to dance the merengue and watch Hispanic movies. Every day, the 11 stu-
dents living at the Spanish House prove that W&Ls first experience with language housing is heading
toward success.

“Language housing is an opportunity for students to experience another language and culture in a
home environment, even if they cannot study or live abroad,” said Heather Knorr ’03, the resident assis-
tant in the house.

‘lhe Spanish House includes several native speakers, students who have studied abroad and even two
who have never spoken a word of Spanish before. “It is a great experience, for those two beginners espe-
cially,” says Cecile West-Settle, professor of Romance languages. “It is an immersion right off the bat.”

Located at 6 Lee Ave., the Spanish House is just one sign of the University’s commitment toward
enriching the international environment on campus. Six international visiting professors, along with 32 new
international freshmen and exchange students, pave the way to making international education one of the
major pillars of program development at Washington and Lee. International students account for 7 percent
of the undergraduate student body and 4 percent of the School of Law’s enrollments. “We’ve made great
strides in integrating these students into all aspects of the University, anywhere from athletics to music to
the residence life staff,” says Amy Richwine, international student advisor. “Before, with a smaller number
of people, they were more reluctant to participate in all those things. Now there is a sufficient number that
lets them have a voice.”

In addition to the Spanish House, the recently relocated International House at 106 Lee Ave. was
established to promote both the involvement of international students in the community and to bring the
W&L and Lexington communities to the International House.

“Because of the larger space we can accommodate more people,” says Richwine. “That will allow us
to have more programs like brown bag lunches with faculty, study abroad presentations, a Japanese food
night—you name it.” Currently, five Americans and seven international students live at the International
House. “I think the students are really going to make the house,” says Richwine. “We can do all the pro-
gramming we want, but it’s the students who live in the house who will carry out the events and have peo-
ple want to come.”

William Klingelhofer, director of international education, is pleased with the changes and new devel-
Opments taking place. Just last month, the Center for International Education moved into new quarters at
21 University Place. The center includes the new Global Stewardship Program under the direction of
Jeffrey Barnett, an associate professor of Romance languages.

“We want to continue to have more students have an international experience as part of their educa-
tion,” he said. —Agnes Flak °03

 

Bookshelf

 

Dickinson to Dove

Lesley Wheeler, associate professor of
English, looks to define the literary
meaning of enclosure and examines
how six dissimilar yet interconnected
American women poets employ this

idiom in The Poetics of Enclosure.

Se ae

i AUNTS

Peace

 

American Muslims: Voir Dire (Speak the
Truth) by Ahmed Younis ’02L is a call to
understanding for Muslims and non-

Muslims alike.

   

wlurwlu.edu

WLUR 91.5 FM is back on the air, and
you can listen to its daily broadcast via the
Internet. ‘The free stream of music, talk
and sports programming may be accessed
by those who have downloaded the
newest free version of the RealONE
Player, available on our Web site. Once
the download has been completed you

may access the broadcast by clicking on
“Listen to WLUR.”

 

 

Washingtowm and

 

The smiles and excitement are unavoidable upon entering the

one of the newest additions to the Washington and Lee campus.
‘The University’s new fitness center opened on Aug. 22,

much to the delight of students, faculty and staff. Located in the

Warner Center/Doremus Gymnasium complex, the center has

already become a major
attraction for all user
groups associated with the
University’s athletic

department.

 

°

 

Proposed during the
1995-96 school year and

approved by the Washington and Lee Board of ‘Irustees as part of

the University’s Strategic Plan, the center is located primarily on

the third floor of Doremus Gymnasium and

encompasses over 11,000 square feet of space.
“We used every nook and cranny to produce

a facility that we thought would be large enough

’

to accommodate all the users,” said project man-
ager ‘Iony Skillbeck. “We also tried to utilize
many of the existing architectural features associ-
ated with that area of the gym.”

The main portion of the $3.3 million facil-
ity was placed in the area, which contained the
Doremus Gymnasium locker rooms, old swim-

ming pool and balcony area. Several of the

Fitness

In the Zone

ething for Everyone

gather and work on their

GENERALS?’ REPORT

 

enter

“We have long had a

need for a place for

members of the

University community to

fitness level.”
—CHUCK O’CONNELL,
SENIOR ASSISTANT
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR

 

ffers

 

Photos by lan Bradhsaw

original pillars from the old pool were restored and are featured as
part of the facility. Many of the original windows, which were
bricked over at one point, were reopened and additional windows
were added to provide more lighting and a view of the central

lawn between Doremus and the new John W. Elrod University

Commons, which is
scheduled to open in the
fall of 2003.

“We believe that this
will be a centralized gath-
ering place for our stu-
Chuck

gents, .. said

O’Connell, senior assistant athletic director. “We have long had a

need for a place for members of the University community to

gather and work on their fitness level. This facil-
ity is all that we could ask for and more.”

Skillbeck added, “Although the center is
broken down into specific areas, the facility’s
space 1s continuous and flows together. We want-
ed a fitness center in which everyone would feel
comfortable. The facility is laid out so that every-
one, all of W&L’s user groups, could use the
equipment and feel satisfied with the experi-
ence.”

In addition to the main area of the fitness

center, there are men’s and women’s locker room

 

Mote @ Reet ie Ne E

 

 

 

 

GENERALS?’ REPORT

 

THE FREE WEIGHT AREA HAS 25 STATIONS,
EASILY ACCOMMODATING MANY USERS.

facilities, a laundry and equipment room
and an aerobic fitness studio located on
the fourth floor, which had previously
been the pool balcony. ‘The aerobics area
will handle step aerobics, ballet, modern
dance and yoga classes, among others, and
can be signed out for use at various times
of the day. It contains its own independent
sound system and is integrated with a
microphone unit for use by instructors.

In addition to the construction of the
facility, W&L also created the position of
Fitness Center director, subsequently hir-
ing Nate Hoey to serve in this position.

Hoey is a certified strength and condition-

 

ing specialist and a 2000 graduate of
Slippery Rock University with a degree in
exercise science.

Hoey will oversee the Fitness Center
operations, along with providing orienta-
tion and fitness programs to assist users in
learning about the equipment and main-
taining a healthy fitness program.

“This facility 1s a great place for the
University community to join in recre-

-

ational health and fitness activities,” said
Hoey. “With an area like this, people can
achieve whatever level of fitness they
would like.”

—Brian Laubscher

pao * ee

ACT WEAS BIN GT ON AN Doo fe tN 1 VER ST Y

Athlencs plays a central role in shaping
the quality of the WL experience.
Historically, the University has commit-
ted itself to ensuring that all students
pursue the classical tdeal of “a strong
mind in a sound body.”

 

Fitness Stations

 

The main area of the center is shaped like a
‘T and includes a strength area, a cardiovascu-
lar area, a free weight area and a centralized

control desk.

> The strength training area contains 32
pieces of selecterized Body Master
strength training machines.

> ‘The cardiovascular area has 10 stationary
bicycles, 10 treadmills, eight elliptical
trainers and six stair masters.

> ‘The 25 free weight stations, include six
Nebula power stations, two Nebula husker
racks and 13,000 pounds of bumper and
‘Troy plate weights.

> Other features of the facility include cen-
tral air conditioning, a fully integrated
sound system and television monitors in

the cardiovascular area.

 

“Generations of W&L alumni have fond—and not so fond—
memories of the pool in Doremus, where, as freshmen, we all

took the required swimming
test. There we were, most of
us wearing only our birthday
suits, lined up alphabetically
on the basketball floor and
through doors leading to the
railing overlooking the pool.
We were required to jump in
from 14 feet up, clutching
our valuables, because a
Doremus family member
had died in a boating acci-
dent and the pool was donat-

ed with the agreement

 

between the family and the University that passing the test

would be a graduation requirement.
I jumped, but I couldn’t swim well enough to pass the test,

so I was enrolled in remedial
swimming and had to report
to the pool three times a
week for the class taught by
Assistant Swimming Coach
Norris Eastman until I did
pass. It took me most of my
freshman year. My strongest
(Skip)
Rohnke °60 was watching

memory of Karl

him take a running start from
the floor of the gym and dive
the

A VIEW OF THE FORMER DOREMUS POOL AND BALCONY FROM
THE SCRAPBOOK OF MATTHEW W. PAXTON JR. ’18, ’20OL.

over railing into
Doremus pool.” +

—Alan M. Corwin ‘62

 

 

Wasth 4 € qt

 

 

This year law school applications were up 22 percent nationally and 50 ally, emotionally and as responsible people. Law school is not about.
percent at Washington and Lee. Moreover, the largest group in history memory, it’s about a whole new way of thinking. ‘Time is something
took the LSAT in October. In light of this increased interest we decid- you never have enough of, you have to learn to work efficiently and
ed to ask a three law alumni and a professor the following: to be focused. It’s about changing the way you see the world. When

I’m asked to give advice to summer associates I tell]

 

Will you encourage your children
to become lawyers?

them, ‘You’re going to be doing this for the rest

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   

of your life, you may as well relax and have
a good time.’ ”
Shawn P. Ceorge ‘SIL, partner,
George & Lorenson P.L.L.C.,

Charleston, W.Va.

Stacy Could Van Coor ’'95L,
attorney, Sempra Energy, San

“It would depend on their eee
motivations. I would encourage “T would absolutely encour-
them if they convinced me they age my children to become
had considered it maturely and lawyers if they expressed an
had a passion for the profession, a interest 1n practicing law. I have
plan to use their legal education found the study and practice of
and some understanding of the law to be challenging, interest-
commitment. It can be a tremen- ing and satisfying. I have particu-
dously rewarding calling in every larly enjoyed those cases in which
sense, but it is often difficult. I know I could find no existing legal prece-
many talented lawyers who have either dents, but was able to achieve my
quit the practice or who are disillusioned clients’ objectives by developing novel
with their work and wish they were doing some- legal arguments or strategies. But beyond the

thing else. It is a constant challenge to balance prop- successes, I have enjoyed developing close and

erly the legal, ethical, moral and business aspects of the prac- rewarding relationships with my clients, from whom I learn
tice. I enjoy that challenge. Every day is unique. I feel good when I have so much. I also believe that law can be practiced ethically and respect-
helped solve a problem or resolve a fully. And I believe tim
controversy. I’ve been very fortu- Would You Washington and Lee trains its stu-
nate to work with interesting peo- dents to act ethically under the

@ @
ple from different parts of the coun- i S I T law and respectfully to others,
try. Pve learned a great deal from bh Te E C t Ud LS Ud C, L ON thereby sending lawyers into prac-
them. I hope that my children will Do tice who promote positive legal

It Again?
have the same professional experi- values.”

ence. It would be great if one or

more of them became lawyers; however, like any other parent, all I real- Darryl K. Brown, associate professor of law at W&L

l t them to be is h d productive.” ey
ee ee “What I like about legal education is the integration of practical

, - : skills—which give young professionals a tremendous ability to affect
William B. Hill Jr. "74, "77L, partner, Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &

the lives of clients and society—with close study of
Walker L.L.P., Atlanta, and a member of the

practical ethics and the inevitable moral responsibil-

 

Board of Trustees
ity that comes with the power of professional skills.
“My elder daughter, Melba K. Hill ’99 is a first- ‘That combination of high skill and acute ethical sen-
year at Campbell University Law School in North | believe that Washington and sibility is what I aspire for my students to achieve,
Carolina, and the younger, Morgan, is currently i acy Seales he ahiahiade ta ct and it would be great for my kids to acquire as well.
applying early decision to W&L and hopes to con- : However, I doubt what I encourage will have much

= ethically under the law and a

tinue on to the law school. ‘They visited the school to do with what my kids choose to do with their lives.
with me and fell in love in love with the campus. I respectfully to others, thereby J; certainly hasn’t to this point. I’ll try to give them
did not encourage them in this particular path, but sending lawyers into practice an honest sense of the wide range of careers one can

rather to work hard at being happy, to have a job have as a lawyer, and if my wife’s encouragement of

who promote positive

that gives you something interesting to do every cd them to be artists hasn’t completely won them overt,
egal values.

day, at which you are constantly growing intellectu- maybe that will have some influence.”

 

 

wath wo gts ns @ucd hos Ge a ha es MiA @ & 72 tow et

 

 

 

 

 

udos. A paper entitled “Deductions for
Claims Against Estates: Should Post-Mortem
Events Play a Role in Valuation?” won the
erand prize for Benjamin C. Brown '94,
"OSL in a competition sponsored by the
American Bar Associaiton Section of Real
Property, Probate and Trust Law.

Brown received $2,000 for the piece, a
one-year membership in the section and an all-expense paid trip to the sec-
tion’s fall meeting in Albeuquerque, N.M., where he will be honored at the
section’s annual Fall Council Dinner Meeting. His essay will also be
announced in the section’s magazine, Probate and Property and be considered
for publication in the section’s journal, Kea/ Property, Probate and Trust Journal.

Professor Clifford Larsen, director of interna-

received a

   
  

tional legal studies programs,
Fulbright Fellowship for teaching and
research at the Bucerius Law School in
Hamburg, Germany, this academic year. His
work will focus on comparative public and
constitutional law, including financial federal-
ism, educational systems, land use planning

and criminal law topics.

 

Se TO ca ROBERT E. ac ane ona a 8 ai
p27 aa HUNTLEY, ae au ee A. Ere eee Co

Class Act for Robert Huntley

More than 60 friends of the Law School joined Dean David Partlett at

 

 

Sydney Lewis Hall Sept. 14 for a dinner to celebrate and thank
A. John Huss ’65L and his wife, Ruth, for their gift to the school. Huss
requested that his gift to the Campaign for the Rising Generation be
recognized by naming recently renovated Classroom D, The Robert
E.R. Huntley (50, ’57L,) Classroom, in honor of Huntley who served

as dean of the Law School and president of the University.

 

Mark HH. Grunewald has been appointed to the James P. Morefield ’52L
Chair. Morefield was president of South Texas Abstract Service in
Houston. Upon his death in 1993, he left a $1.3
million bequest to establish the chair.
Grunewald received his J.D. from George
Washington University and came to Washington
and Lee in 1976. He teaches and writes primari-
ly in the areas of labor and employment law and
administrative law. He served as associate dean
of the Law School from 1992-1996 and interim
dean from 1999-2000. Last year Grunewald was

 

a visiting scholar at New York University in the fall and the European
University Institute in Florence in the spring.

His current research concerns information privacy law. “This area
has received a lot of attention in recent years. Until Sept. 11, most of the
contemporary interest had been in insuring greater protection for per-
sonal information. Now the tables have been turned. Fighting terrorism
has become a significant counter-weight to protecting privacy,” explained
Grunewald. “It’s always been the case that personal privacy has had to be
balanced against other interests. But we must also be alert to the possi-
bility that the balance may shift too dramatically one way or the other.”

“I’m particularly honored to receive this chair knowing that so many
of my colleagues are deserving of it,” added Grunewald. “The generosi-
ty of Mr. Morefield, and that of others like him, can truly shape the future
of the Law School.”

Brian C. Murchison has been appointed to the newly established
Charles S. Rowe chair. Although Charles S. Rowe 45, ’50L studied |
law for only one year, he believes his law train-
ing served him well during his long career as a
journalist, particularly when dealing with
issues involving First Amendment rights.
Rowe established the chair to bring the law
school and journalism department closer
together. “The idea behind the chair is to sup-
port analysis and discussion of media issues

 

from the legal perspective in a way that

explained

involves not only the law school but also the college,”
Murchison.

Murchison, who received his undergraduate and J.D. degrees
from Yale University, has taught and researched in the areas of mass
media and the law. His scholarship has been in the area of libel law
and the values that underlie the First Amendment. His current pro-
ject includes a study of whether the press has a right to attend depor-
tation hearings that the Justice Department wants closed.

“The issue of free speech and free press is particularly timely
during this period of international tension,” Murchison asserted.
“Currently there are a number of cases in the federal courts dealing
with First Amendment issues related to the war on terrorism. Thanks
to Mr. Rowe’s generosity, this chair permits an enhanced debate

about these and other media issues on campus.”

 

faa ees 6 oes ee ae oe ee ae

Self-professed “Anti-Hefner” Leif Ueland '88 bares his soul in Acidental Playboy

“Me cavorting with Playmates—it’s the proverbial fish-out-of-water story. Sort of

like Arnold Schwarzenegger teaching kindergarten...or experiencing childbirth! ‘Uhat’s
what I’m hearing—sexually desperate confused me... cavorting with Playmates!

As Max and I continue goofing on the idea of my chronicling a Playmate Search,

9

*m struck by the irony that this is a job I might actually have a good shot at getting.’

F RO M Acadental Playboy: Caught in the Ulumate Mate Fantasy

=k Oo EE 8 PT

 

d

H

It may not be the Great American Novel—he’s still working on
that—but author Leif Ueland ’88 has found his own unlikely
niche: the male confessional memortr. In articles such as “Spanking
the Gerbil: The Secret Life of Women’s Magazines” and “Trials of
a Gay-Seeming Straight Male” (written for the Web °’zine
nerve.com), Ueland taps into a subject matter that isn’t most
folks’ idea of after-dinner conversation.

“While there has been a lot of material about women’s sexuality,
there has been a little more resistance to getting into male issues, and
I don’t know why,” says Ueland, who bared his misadventures as a
10-year-old underwear model in the October issue of Jae magazine.
His experiences as a “fearless reporter” in search of the Playmate of
the Millennium—a six-month, cross-country trek aboard a bus—
provide the backdrop for Accidental Playboy: Caught in the Ultimate
Male Fantasy (Warner Books).

“Playboy is so much more than a
magazine in people’s consciousness,”
Ueland says. “People didn’t live
fantasy in their normal lives, but one
of them is to live like Hugh Hefner.”
He kept a journal during his travels
and filed about 70 dispatches chron-
icling the six-month search for
Playboy.com, which became the
most popular feature in the Web
site’s history. (Sample prose: “Not
only were the Portland [Ore.]
candidates pretty, but they were
also on fire with a kind of animal
magnetism that came as a surprise
to even our search team members,”
he reported from the Rose City.)

Ueland’s venturesome spirit
brought him to Lexington in the first place. “Going to W&L was a
little similar to ending up on the Playboy bus,” says the Minnesota
native, who chose the University on a whim after seeing a slide
show of Virginia colleges. “The whole idea of being a gentleman
and having a code appealed to me.”

“He was charismatic, warm, generous, and hysterically funny
about his sexual misadventures,” recalls former roommate Marshall
Boswell 88, now an assistant professor of English at Rhodes College.
(With “his big smile and his sweep of blond hair,” Boswell adds, Ueland’s
nickname around the Sigma Chi house was “The Teen Idol.”)

While he majored in business administration, deep down Ueland
was a “wannabe writer’—his great aunt, Brenda, even penned a
how-to book, Jf You Want to Write, that remains in print today. “Leif
and I were part of an intense circle of people who were absolutely
committed to becoming writers,” says Boswell, whose collection of
Short stories, In Between Things, will be published early next year.
Others in the group included Mark Trainer ’87, a graduate of the
M.FA. program at the University of Virginia; essayist Christian
Wiman ’88, whose first book, Tie Long Home (Story Line Press), won
the 1998 Nicholas Roerich Poetry Prize; and poet Betsy Ann Vesgo’89.

After Ueland graduated, he did “the practical thing,” taking a job
as an insurance broker. That didn’t last long—‘“Life was too short,”

A PERK OF THE JOB? UELAND POSES WITH SOME
BEAUTIES FOR THE COVER OF HIS BOOK. ~

 

he says. So he became a ski bum, then went back to Minnesota to try
his hand at acting. Almost as an afterthought, he wound up taking
a writing course. “Writing was always my secret desire,” says Ueland,
who began his first novel, a go-cart-racing opus, at age 5. “But it
just seemed like there was no way to make a living at it.”

He enrolled in the professional writing program at the University of
Southern California. After he completed his master’s, he soon found
himself island-hopping with the cast and crew of “Road Rules”—
snorkeling, hanging out on the beach, snapping behind-the-scenes
photos and taking the occasional note for a book on the popular MTV
reality series. Following that experience, he trained his attention on “real
writing,” but after months of writing the first chapter of the aforemen-
tioned Great American Novel over and over, Ueland found himself
running out of money—to say nothing of being job-, car- and girl-less.

‘Then his friend, Max, called and
told him about the Playboy job.
“Frolicking around with Playmates
seemed absurd and funny,” says
Ueland, who hails from a family
of strong feminist role models.
“| didn’t want to do it.” Before long,
though, he reported for work at the
Playboy Mansion, site of the kickoff
party for Playmate Search 2000.

His journey provides the narra-
tive arc for Accidental Playboy, which
Boswell calls “a funny and disarm-
ing account of what happens when
the airbrushed fantasy world of
Playboy runs up against the slippery
realities of nuts-and-bolts sexuality.
Leif creates a split persona for the
book: First there’s ‘Leif,’ this nor-
mal, intelligent, overly self-conscious male who simply cannot stop
thinking of all these gorgeous women as Individual Human Beings.
‘Then there’s ‘Fearless,’ Leif’s pen name and alter ego, a willed cre-
ation of Leif’s imagination who wants to put aside all those bourgeois
misgivings and just plunge in. Rather than drive home tired clichés
about ‘female empowerment versus ‘the male gaze and objectifica-
tion,’ Leif uses his split persona to interrogate both sides of the argu-
ment, and he comes away with some surprising paradoxes that nev-
ertheless make perfect sense within the weird world of the sex trade.”

Ever the professor, Boswell “couldn’t resist taking a red pen to
all 300-some pages of my manuscript, with comments like ‘Your
grammar Is atrocious,” Ueland recalls with a laugh.

While nearly four years have passed since the Playmate Search
2000 drew to its conclusion, Ueland admits to being “a little terrified”
at the reaction to his memoir. He dedicates Accidental Playboy to his
parents, Sigurd and Sissy, with the admonition “Mom and Dad, do
not read beyond this point.” Some of the coincidences in his bbok—
mistaken identities, restless fiancés, and the like—“are such perfect
little plot twists that they seem fictional,” Ueland says, “but I didn’t
make those up.” He’s saving them for the Great American Novel. *

CCE ODOT OEE S64 2S EER 6 OO PEO OES 6 CAH C4 EH GOCE 6H 0 0H 84H O CO HE OOH eS ee Ee eb HO EOS

Dick Anderson ts a freelance writer in Los Angeles.

 

(tcc ede Rec ed

Iie A Ge Beye eos

ow wg

1.00

a 8

S

XxX

4.0

oS aN @ YA

2 0. Oe

 

 

 

 

 

sosaetvenaoniseinsncntnn aceon bhi SONI ON atin hinisasin
Ob OH etm tr toe we 4 oe Mn tine,
Re ae es gg ais
he gin gs

i ay

 

BY
Lori Stevens

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

} he main entrance to Reid Hall is
back where it should be, beri the columns that face Woods
Creek. And what a spectacular entrance it is. Slate floors, wood
paneling and a flat screen TV mounted on the wall. What isnt as
easy to see at first glance is the technology that has transformed

the journalism programs teaching tools in the classrooms and Iabs.

This isnt the same old Reid Hall, not by a long shot.

pe as al

 

BARTON PETERS ’O3 USES ONE OF SEVERAL HIGH-END
AVID DIGITAL VIDEO EDITING WORKSTATIONS.

 

 

 

Wego tone gedantot @eteood hecetont elke dbeottce ted ee:

. oO nm @

in & Ye A O

2 oO

in

a sn

aA ft

t

 

On a typically muggy day three weeks into the fall semester
those entering newly renovated Reid Hall are instantly met with
cool air. A luxury, yes, but the amount of air conditioning needed
to cool the building has been radically reduced, because new low
intensity lights, which generate 20 percent less heat, are now
used on the public affairs and news sets.

“This is indicative of the thought and the decade of planning
that went into the renovation of the building,” explains head of
the journalism department, Hampden Smith. “It will save q
ereat deal of money over time.”

Faculty began to move back into the 18,424-square foot, 96-
year-old building in July, after a desperately needed $7 million-
plus renovation. Since the last renovation in 1962, the journalism
faculty increased from two to nine, and majors increased 10-fold,
from approximately seven to 80. Consequently, Reid Hall was a

top priority in the Campaign for the Rising Generation to update

resources for both students and faculty.
os Fale eam ONATLT to be here “It was tough,” said journalism major Anne Lotz ’03 of pre-
in a facility that provides us with
the tools we'll need in the real world

renovation Reid Hall, “The minute you entered the building
you noticed the heat. ‘Things didn’t work right, and there were

never enough computers or capability. Despite the long walk,
A prepares us for the CLR UROL Mod Hall (the temporary double-wide trailers near the Law

The department Is AWare Oh NG School that housed the department during the 2001-2002 acade-
la LA TLC CLL TOK mic year) was actually an improvement.”
DD eT fo rac LE he “The new building is a wonderful space; it’s a delight to be in

i A I I I I, RN A AE, AU SE, AA, EE, SO, I, SUE See, ee

Kevin Cotlove '03
FOURNALISM MAIOR

it,” added Smith. “But,” he continued, “far more important is
being able to walk into the classroom and teach these students
the way they deserve to be taught. ‘They’re going to be around in
the world 20 years from now—we need to prepare them.”

‘Two multimedia “smart” classrooms use the latest presenta-
tion technology completely housed in specially designed
lecterns. By simply tapping a touch screen, professors and guest
lecturers can play a video, DVD or download from the Web.

“T can go click, click, click and show students this is how
you go through these sites, this is how you do the research,”
explained Smith. “We can directly look at how CNN, the
Jerusalem Times and the Washington Post report an issue—where
there is agreement or disagreement. ‘The students directly see
the policy process. We were never able to do that before in class.”

Yet, despite all the excitement over the new technology, the
department’s focus remains on fundamentals. “We now have the
tools to get the students actively involved in their own education.
It doesn’t change what we do, it just makes it possible to do a bet-
ter job,” Smith continued.

“We maintain the focus of the relationship between the role

RDSON, PROFESSOR OF JOURNALISM, AND KELLY the media plays in maintaining a free society,” added Smith.
O03 USE HIS OFFICE TO DISCUSS A PROJECT.

 

“The digital revolution permits everyone access to information

 

 

a a a and Ce As ote Mok Soh Se EF

 

 

and eliminates the control of the establishment,
including newspapers and broadcasters. However, as
the public faces the increasing demand to assess the
veracity of information, editors will become more
importan ee

Brian Richardson *73, who teaches classes in news
media and reporting, agreed, “We have always tried to
be audience-centered in focus. The irony is that we
have a lot of new technology to learn right now, but
once that’s done the teaching will de-emphasize the
technology and maintain focus on the audience. We
won’t have to worry about the process of how to get the
information to the audience in the most effective way.”

“Introducing the technology at an early stage allows
it to become second nature, then we can focus on the
editorial process—what do you want to communicate
to what audience,” noted Chet Burgess III ’74, a
20-year veteran of CNN, founder of Digital News
Concepts and visiting instructor of journalism.

Burgess, who helped create Reid Hall’s converged
news lab, said, “It used to be that in every new class students
would learn a new piece of hardware or software. Now, instead of
focusing on the software and the box, students can focus on the
audience and what they want to communicate. They’ll be famil-
iar with different media and be able to choose the most effective

given the message and the audience.”

 

In real terms what does this $2-million technology translate
into? After 5 p.m. on a Thursday afternoon, Burgess, the self-pro-
claimed ringmaster of the “Rockbridge Report” converged news
lab, presides over a buzzing newsroom. Technically the classes he
teaches, electronic and advanced electronic journalism, ended
over an hour ago, but the place still hums with activity.

At one workstation Lotz and major Kevin Cotlove ’03 are
doing the rundown for the cable portion of the “Rockbridge
Report.” At another workstation Jill Adams ’03, Michael
George ’03 and Michelle Lally ’03 work on the Web portion.
“It’s very much a converged universe—as they work in tan-
dem they begin to understand how the other thinks and
works,” explained Smith.

“We're all in the same newsroom working in different
media, but since we’re all using the same program we can share
information more easily,” concurred Lotz. “I now have more

©ptions planning a show—I can use print stories and reporters.

“The new building ts a wonderful space; it’s a delight to be

TL ULL LE OL LG
CACO CLL CALLE LULL LOL OSL
taught. They're going to be around in the world 20 years

from now—we need to prepare them.”
Hampden Smith
PROFESSOR OF JOURNALISM

2 3 ee eS

The print guys are excited about broadcast, the broadcast
about the Web. It’s a learning experience for all of us.”

“Because of the tools more people can work at once,” Cotlove
added. “I can spend my time actually working and producing a
story, rather than waiting for a machine. And work flows more
quickly —the time it takes to edit a 90-second piece has been
cut in half.” Sirens blare from a video of a bus bombing in
Israel downloaded from CNN as Cotlove adds a voice-over.

Last summer Cotlove interned at KOMO, an ABC affiliate in
Seattle. “It was entirely digital,” said Cotlove. “No one used
tape. It’s very exciting to be here ina facility that provides us with
the tools we’ll need in the real world and prepares us for the years
to come. ‘lhe department is aware of the changes in the industry
and has planned for a changing world.”

As a few students trickle out Burgess reminds them to have
the First Amendment memorized for the next class. “Our graduates
will have more options upon graduating—the more you can do,
the more employable you are,” Burgess asserted. “We have moved
from the mindset that a person will work for one company for 30
years. ‘I‘hat model is no longer operative in most industries. Our
graduates will be able to move from one subsidiary to another.”

“After only three weeks, these students are ready to put
out a broadcast. They’re not students just working for a
grade anymore; they are doing work they are personally
proud of,” enthused Smith. “We have been working toward
this for over 10 years.”

Welcome home. 4

 

 

Washington awed

be ee a Oe

 

0 1 Oo 2.8

AS

Ney 4

a*u Ss iy ¥ g

‘ To a _ i a e Trade

 

The $2-million price tag for the hardware and software
in Reid Hall prepares students to function in the multimedia
universe. Dalet Digital Media Systems’ Dalet Plus software
allows all forms of media to be produced in the same
networked media box. “Three or four years ago it would
have taken five or six different applications from different
publishers to do what Dalet Plus lets us do,” explained Chet
Burgess °74, visiting instructor of journalism. “Dalet Plus has
all the pieces we need in a common interface.”

Upstairs B.O.B.—the Big Open Box universal server from

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   

TGS, Inc.—can input, store or play back any digital or ang-
log video format. B.O.B. is currently used by Voice of
America, and is being installed in the U.S. Senate and by the
Army in the Pentagon.

At 1.6 terabytes (a terabyte equals 1000 gigabytes), the
B.O.B. can handle 65 hours of broadcast quality video,
Compare that to only 15 years ago when the journalism ;
department had the first PC network on campus; the file
server was a PCX’T with a 20 MB hard drive that handled al] _

the traffic for 20 personal computers and stored the AP wire, ¢

 

 

   

At WASH R GTON AND

      

EEE UN TV PRS ay

 

Education ina Digital

     

It is essential that students and faculty working on new
frontiers at W&L do so in settings that support high achievement.
Washington and Lee has prepared Reid Hall to support the
journalism department’s “Education in a Digital World” Initiative
through a complete renovation and addition of cutting-edge

-communications tools that will integrate print and broadcast
areas. Reid Hall is a facility that will, over the coming decades,
make a significant impact on the journalism industry.

Among the corporate and foundation contributors who have
helped defray part of the $7 million in total renovation costs
are the Lettie Pate Evans Foundation, The Charles Rowe
Family Foundation, Robert G. III and Maude Morgan Cabell
Foundation, Mary Morton Parsons Foundation, Ethics and
Excellence in Journalism Foundation, Marietta McNeill Morgan
and Samuel ‘Tate Morgan Jr. Foundation, George I. Alden Trust,
Media General and Beckett Charitable Foundation.

 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 

Additionally, alumni of the journalism department and 0
individuals have made naming gifts for the renovated build
‘This support has been combined with significant undesig
campaign funding for the project. |
However, additional funding is needed to secure th
program. “Convergence technology is an on-going ticket i r
It’s expensive and constantly evolving,” said Peter Croni
director of University development. “While the infrastruct
in place to prepare and engage our students, it’s evident th
endowed funds will be needed to secure the program for th
future.” Cronin estimates that to maintain the innovatiy
technology a $2-million endowment must be raised. |
Washington and Lee welcomes additional contribution
to the Reid Hall Initiative. If you have questions or would lik
more information about this project, contact Peter Cronin
(540) 458-8165 or pcronin@wlu.edu ¢

 

 

Watch the video or read more about the University’s technology initiatives:
http://support.wlu.edu/web/page/normal/84.html

 

 

Lort Stevens ts a freelance writer living in Lexington.

 

Washington and

Lee 6

MAGA Zi KE

 

- A director. A supporter of the arts. It takes all three, and more, to mount a successful
tion. The play’s the thing behind the stories of a professor, student and alumni who

ade a difference in the world of theater:

 

O

ee

    

d Washington and

 
 

iversity’s theater department.

 
 

tan McWilliams ’01, who worked with

 
 
  

 
 

y to create beautiful pictures on the

lis shows always featured lavish cos- —

 
  
 

  
 
 
  

opulent and creative sets and ree
music. All this created a truly classic

 
 

-al experience for the audience, who

ly poured into the anions

   

 

 

Reflecting on his years at W&L, which have
included over 40 productions, Gordon declares
his most important role at W&L was helping to
create the Lenfest Center for the Performing
Arts. The exquisite, arched windowed archi-
tecture of Lenfest stands in contrast to the
University’s former theater, the Henry Street
Playhouse, built in 1858, where Gordon recalls
witnessing “the sun rising through the cracks in the walls.”

During its time, though, Henry Street Playhouse held its own
allure and also served as the theater for local productions. Gordon
modeled it after American stock theater companies of the 19th cen-
tury, in which every member of a production held a share of interest.

Lexington native Mandy Irons ’95 started working with Gordon
in his Henry Street productions when she was 10 and says, “Fic
taught me how to be big and broad on stage, and I have always loved
playing roles that called for that.” Irons, a supervisor at Owest
Communications, still does a little theater on the side. In a recent
production of Shakespeare’s Comedy of Errors, she played Dromio of
Syracuse in a fat suit and commented, “Al would have loved this
because it was an all-female production. He loved creating big,
splashy shows for his audience, to surprise them and astonish them.”

With 42 years of teaching to his credit, what has fascinated
Gordon most over the years has been directing. “One has to be a
psychologist of sorts and not be squeamish in figuring out how to
bring out the best performances in actors,” he said.

Mason Pettit ’92, who founded the theater company Moonwork
in New York City, describes Gordon’s directing style as “a studied
schizophrenia. He knew when to applaud and coddle and then
exactly when to vent. As an actor, comfort can be the enemy of
revelation, and as a young actor, self-congratulation slams the door
on growth. Al’s unflagging enthusiasm working with all of the
acting majors helped me understand that. Never rest. Never be
cheap.” The reward for hard work, Pettit discovered, was hearing
Gordon’s laugh at a comedic moment. “He was either having a
seizure or he was silent. I always gunned for seizure.”

Erin Walsh Daunic ’93 explained that Gordon never showed her
how to play a role. “There was no mimicking. Al would spend a lot of
time talking with us about the play so that our performance came nat-
urally. He trusted his actors to explore their characters and Jumped in
to pull us back only if we were straying too far off course.” But she
noted that Gordon couldn’t stand incompetence. “Al let you know
what he thought, and he didn’t apologize for his feelings,” she said.

Gordon admits to being an intense and demanding director,
who resorted to bullying, coaxing and placating his actors when the

need arose. He even made them cry on occasion, he says with a

“One has to be a
psychologist of sorts
and not be squeamish

in figuring out

how to bring out the
best performances
in actors.”

 

 

sheepish grin. “There are no two People
you do the same thing to in order to Motivate
them. ‘The process is different for each actor,”
He remembers having to tell one actor, who
lacked stage presence and had a bad body
odor to boot, to go to the drugstore and get
some deodorant. Surprisingly enough, the
result was a transformed and confident actor.

Despite tense moments that dissipated as quickly as a summer
thunderstorm, Gordon’s former students remember and cherish
his personal touches. “He left me the most beautiful note in my
dressing room on opening night of Miss Julie,” said Daunic. “ve
never forgotten it.” For Irons it was his attention to her senior the-
sis music performance. “Al found me a dress to wear and sewed
the sequins along the top of it himself. I thought that was very
sweet.” Added Pettit, “Al shared his enthusiasm at every stage
along my path as theater major. He created a fierce conviction in
me that what I was striving for was vital.”

Gordon gives credit for his successful tenure at W&L to the
“wonderful support” he has received down through the years from
each administration of the University. More than anything, Gordon
hopes his legacy for Washington and Lee’s theatre department will
be the shared and continued use of both Keller and Johnson
theaters as performance space. It will be, no doubt, hard to argue

against the voice of 28 years of success. ¢

 

: DRESSED AS DRACULA,
AL GORDON STOLE THE LIMELIGHT.
_AT HIS RETIREMENT PARTY.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON’s LIME KILN THEATER BECAME ALEX WARREN’S SECOND HOME. HERE SHE’S

DRESSED

 

LIKE A SOUTHERN BELLE FOR THE PRODUCTION OF STONEWALL COUNTRY.

This 22-year-old student from Rome, Ga., also knows how to

Speak

Unik

with a British accent, dress like a Southern belle, fight as a

n. soldier and crack a bullwhip. It’s all part of her acting career.

The Washington and Lee senior spent the summer in

Lex;
Aug

=

igton, auditioning, rehearsing and finally performing in Lime

Stonewall Country. The production, which ran from July 3 to

3, put the life and times of Jackson into a more light-hearted

 

 

perspective. As part of an ensemble cast
Warren played a number of different female
and male characters, learned how to navigate
in hoop skirts and handle pyrotechnics.

“I thought it would be a great summer

’

opportunity for me,” she said of staying
in Lexington and doing something outside
the Lenfest Center. Warren did not receive
“equity points” (from which you gain accep-
tance into a national actor’s union) for this
performance, but she was paid.

‘The audition, which included a memorized
monologue and a song, was nerve-racking
and much different from auditions at Lenfest.
“I think you get used to a place and the fac-
ulty. ‘This was over in the Lime Kiln office:
it’s just you and the casting director [John
Healy], and it’s a completely different feel-
ing,” Warren said. “It’s like a job interview,
and it’s not nearly as warm and cozy as a big
open audition down at the Lenfest. I was
more nervous than ever.”

Before Stonewall, Warren’s Lenfest produc-
tions ran for only six performances per show.
This two-hour play, however, ran Tuesday
through Saturday for a month. Performing
day after day was something else to get
used to, and Warren said she was surprised
at her reaction.

“I really was afraid that I would get so
tired of it, I couldn’t imagine doing the
same show again and again, but there’s
something to be said for it. It still is a lot of
fun, and you get a different audience every
evening. ‘[o watch someone who’s never
seen it before, to entertain them, for them
to be excited about it, has been great.”

Having already completed a major in
English, Warren will finish her theater degree
this fall semester. A double major seemed practical, she said, having
interests in both subjects. Warren has appeared in the theater
department’s Candide, Wild Oats, Secret Service and Elephant Man and
will have a role in this fall’s Dr: Jeky/ and Mr. Hyde and the Play-
wright’s Festival. She has no firm post-graduation plans yet, but staying
in Lexington, auditioning for more shows, finding a job at home

or attending grad school are choices she’ll be contemplating. 4

 

Wascha & gto ns and ice Ge ae ees Mea @ Ac bt Ws

can

| i ae

T

cy

gq

-

aE Ge A

y Se

Moet O HF

Al

Ava

IMPARTING See

In 1971, at his graduation ceremony, Robert

Jensen remembers thinking not about what

  
 

the future held for a bright, young graduate
like himself, but, oddly enough, about a

friend who had built a desk.

He wondered why he didn’t know how to build a desk, and what would
he need to do to learn this. Rather unusual for an English major and
history buff at such a defining moment. But it does reflect a characteristic
that still fits Jensen today, a way of thinking outside of the predictable
and commonplace that would lead him to become an award-winning
educator, theater director, designer, producer and an original playwright.

Newly promoted to the position of department chair for the the-
ater arts department at Fullerton College in California, where he
has taught for 22 years, Jensen admits he didn’t envision his present
life such as it is back when he was a student at Washington and Lee.
His career “developed a piece at a time.”

What he also recalls during those undergraduate days was the
sense of honor and dignity, so implicit to academic endeavor at Washing-
ton and Lee. “It is a tough walk to walk every day of your life, but
there was the model.” Jensen continues to use this same model in
teaching at Fullerton. Remembering a teacher who led his students
through fields and over fences to study geology, Jensen admits the
greatest influence on his career was “being able to see through the
eyes of those truly gifted people with a passion for their discipline.”

It is this passion that Jensen now imparts to his own students, as
he teaches theater appreciation, principles of acting, and modern

DEMOCRACY

Mark Twain has there
been anyone as intent on
celebrating the common
man through storytelling

oa sas Dudley Cocke '68.

DUDLEY COCKE ’68 RECEIVED THE PRESTIGIOUS HEINZ AWARD FOR ARTS AND

HUMANITIES FOR HIS EFFORTS TO EDUCATE AND ENLIGHTEN THROUGH ART.

Perhaps not since

COLLEGE,
dramatic literature. As students from all walks of
life come to the Fullerton campus, Jensen finds it important to train
not just theater artists, but future members of the theater audience
as well. A number of the 20,000 students at Fullerton College have
never experienced the theater before, so “just getting them to the
theater” is quite an achievement, Jensen states.

One of Jensen’s current projects is a grant from the state of
California that introduces high school students to the theater
through an adaptation of the novel 7wenty Thousand Leagues Under
the Sea by Jules Verne and engages students in both science
(oceanography) and literature. Another remarkable project of
Jensen’s has been the recent production of his original script
Wallenberg, which was nominated for the David Mark Cohen Award
from the Kennedy Center/American College ‘Uheatre Festival. The
play is based on the life of the unsung Swedish hero, Raoul
Wallenberg, who risked his life to rescue over a 100,000 Hungarian
Jews from Nazi extermination during World War II. Moved unde-
niably by such unrecognized heroism, Jensen notes, “If we could
just find that kind of energy now, we could save the world.”

In his own inimitable way, that is what Robert Jensen hopes to
do in the much smaller world of theater. +

 

 

Now a writer, teacher,
producer, and, foremost,
artistic director of the
Roadside ‘Theatre in the
central Appalachian region
of Whitesburg, Ky., Cocke
has dedicated the past 26
years to bringing theater

to regional people every-
where through his touring
nonprofit professional the-
ater ensemble. Moreovet,
he has brought regional
people into the theater
experience itself, an expe
rience that invites the dis-
covery of regional voices
and their unique stories.

Born on Virginia’s eastern shore, Cocke was raised in the
oral tradition of storytelling, where on hunting and fishing
excursions with his grandfather, he listened to the swap-
ping of stories at the local country store. Later, captivated
by the natural beauty of the mountains of the southem

 

 

BoB JENSEN '
DEPARTMENT
CHAIR FOR THe
THEATER ARTs
DEPARTMENT ar
FULLERTON

CALIFORNIA

   

”

Ss

Shenandoah Valley and the small, intimate environment of
Washington and Lee University, his love of the story inspired him
to study literature and to spend time in the literary society of
famous visiting poets and writers, such as Robert Lowell, Carolyn
Kizer, James Dicey, the young ‘lom Wolfe ’51 and the even younger
Reynolds Price. ‘The spontaneity of the campus readings was
marked by its complete lack of pretension, Cocke says, and it pos-
sessed him with a passion. After a reading, students gathered at one
of the faculty homes to carry on late into the night. ‘The next morn-
ing, Cocke recalls, “Jim Boatwright [former editor of Shenandoah, |
read for an hour to our modern poetry class on Saturday mornings,
after the inevitable late Friday night parties. No rhetoric to process,
no questions to answer, Just his mellifluous incantation of the word.
It was enough to make a believer of me.”

After going on to Harvard for his graduate studies, Cocke and
classmate Don Baker, an actor/director for W&L’s University the-
ater department, teamed up to co-write Red Fox/Second Hangin’, a
historical play about a Wise County doctor hanged for murder in
1893 narrated from the perspective of three Appalachian characters.
The play ran in New York, as well as at Washington and Lee, to

widespread critical acclaim.

 

in 1952 with a bachelor’s degree in English. Having decided in his
sophomore year that medicine was the path for him, Manning went
on to Yale University and became a general surgeon. He spent the
next four years in residency at the Mayo Clinic, followed by a two-
year stint in public health with the Indian Health Service. He then
joined a surgical group in Staunton, Va., and practiced surgery at
King’s Daughters Hospital and later at the Augusta Medical Center
in Fishersville, Va.

Now Manning returns to his love of the English language as
chairman of the board for the Shenandoah Shakespeare Theater.
He says it was reading medieval history with Dr. William Jenks
and listening to Dr. Fitz Flournoy, a Rhodes Scholar and former
actor for the old Vic theater in London, as he recited
Shakespeare to his students for hours on end, that made an
indelible impression on him.

Originally from South Carolina, Manning graduated from W&L

Cocke and Baker joined a media arts organization, the
Appalachian Film Workshop, known as Appalshop, that originated
as part of a national War on Poverty job training program for disad-
vantaged youth in the coalfields of Appalachia. What was unusual
about Appalshop, according to Cocke, was that it told the story of
Appalachia from the inside out, unlike in the past when the
Appalachian story was only told by outsiders looking in. “Its medi-
um was documentary film and its subjects were local people and
events—a hog butchering, the birth of twins assisted by a midwife,
foot washing at the Old Regular Baptist Church.” By 1975,
Appalshop had evolved into the Roadside ‘Theater. With little
money and no physical space for a theater, the performance group
began touring the countryside, “often performing in a revival-style
tent pitched in church yards, next to community centers and
schools, up the hollow of our mountains.”

Roadside continues to tour, even today with its own theater
in Whitesburg, Ky., to more than 43 states across the country and
a half-dozen countries in Europe.

Believing wholeheartedly that theater needs to be centered in
working class culture to truly be successful, Cocke remains
committed to cultural democracy and to the telling of stories. %

 

Serving first as general campaign manager in 1999 for

Shenandoah Shakespeare, Manning helped raise $2.7 million for
the nonprofit organization. One has only to sit under the golden oak
beams in the amphitheater replicating the original Blackfriars
Playhouse to feel the genius of this Shakespearean experience. It is,
as Manning notes, an ambitious undertaking and a hefty responsi-
bility. However, he is up to the task. During his college years, he
helped co-found the Washington and Lee Concert Guild, bringing
classical artists to perform concerts in Lee Chapel, a program that
continues today.

Preston remembers his undergraduate days at W&L as
“some of the best years of his life. “They not only were some
of the happiest, but the most influential and productive,” he
noted. How lucky for the rest of us that he continued to apply
those skills throughout his life to his medical practice and in
support of the arts. %

 

Weetehinagteoa and

fee Me a ew

I A A A ee

A Vn Sa Yee

ee

ON RE EMOTO EO

 

 

W&L FAMILIES GATHERING ON THE FRONT LAWN
INCLUDE TOM WHITE (GOLD TIE), KIRBY MULLEN AND THEIR SON,
DAN; PHILIP O’MARA (STRIPED SHIRT), WITH HIS PARENTS PHIL
AND JOAN O’MARA; AND ROGER DEAN (DARK BLUE SHIRT) HOLDING
HANDS WITH ANTHONY, HIS WIFE, KAY, NEXT TO ALYOSHA AND
CHILDREN CHIP, KITTY AND SCOTTY (IN THE TREE). SUE AND

JIM OLIVE ARE IN THE BACK WITH DAUGHTER ANNA.

 

 

—
~
a
—
~
~

a

Ny” ad

a

mow me SO UU

Roger Dean, professor of management, and his wife, Kay, already had three biological
children when they welcomed 5-year-old Russian Alyosha and 8-month-old Guatemalan
Anthony into their family in 1997. ‘They are one of a handful of W&L couples who have
chosen international adoption for a variety of reasons. As Dean explained, “We were too

old to adopt domestically and faced a seven-year waiting list. And there is always the

risk domestically of the birth parent coming back.”
In 1989 approximately 8,000 international
orphans were brought into the U.S. for adoption.
Last year, that number was 19,237, changing
everyone’s ideas about family and increasing
diversity even in towns as small as Lexington.
“Adoption can be a scary word for many people,
because your biological connection with the child is
lost,” admitted Sue Olive, academic computing and
network specialist, who with her husband, Jim,
adopted 2-year-old Anna from Romania in 1997. “But
age was working against us in fertility treatments.
I was 40 and Jim was 52. After all that we wanted
a child right away, we didn’t want the long wait.”
“The path from infertility to adoption is not
a straight line,” explained Marge Savage, adoption
program manager for Catholic Charities in Roanoke,

which has been handling international adoptions

from a number of developing countries since 1982. “Treatments can take time and
there are loss issues involved. By the time people are ready to adopt a child they
are often too old for domestic adoption. Birth parents are selecting their children’s
adoptive parents, and they are less likely to choose single or older parents.”

Overseas adoption becomes the only choice left. As this group discovered, no matter

a RYAN GLLa
between them and our
OLE MOLL GL

Once you have sibling rivalry,

you know the process

has worked.”

Roger Dean

PROFESSOR OF
MANAGEMENT

how complicated the adoption process, the end result is what counts most.

 

 

 

Washington and fics WE bh 4 ab mM aAacg a &

‘The Deans first heard Alyosha’s story in 1996. ‘he boy had
been abandoned ina street market with his name pinned to his shirt
when he was 3. For a year he lived with a street woman until her
arrest. He was then sent to an orphanage.

After beginning the process of adopting Alyosha, the Deans
were told in February of 1997 the adoption was not going to work.
‘Their agency recommended they adopt from Guatemala instead,
and they began the process with that country. In August, however,
the Deans learned that Alyosha was available after all, but they had
only 10 days to travel to Russia. An hour before leaving they
received a call that Anthony was ready for adoption.

“These kids had no future—Russian orphanages are so bad.
But we didn’t do it for altruistic purposes. We wanted more kids. I
love being a dad, that’s my priority,” explained Dean. Alyosha
immediately bonded with the Dean’s youngest son, Scotty.
Although Anthony, now 5, has Mayan features, Dean said, “We see
no difference between them and our biological children. Once you
have sibling rivalry, you know the process has worked.”

But it’s not always smooth sailing. As the Olives discovered,
adoption can involve some of the very same risks and uncertainties
as giving birth to your own child. “We filled out a form that we did
not want any major handicaps,” explained Olive. “We were thrilled
when we received Anna’s photograph. We signed a form releasing
the agency of any legal obligation and accepted her.”

When the orphanage brought out Anna she weighed only 15
pounds and had never walked or talked. She had to be sedated
before the Olives could take her into their care. “We knew some-
thing was very wrong,” said Olive. “She had teeth like a 2-year-old,
but wouldn’t eat or take a bottle. We were so devastated, yet at

the same time we had this wonderful child alive in our arms.

  
 
 

You bargain for a human life and sudden]
S Vy the legal Part d
0€sn’t

clothing?”
he U

place her with a family willing to take a child with special
‘la

make sense. How could we return her like a Piece of

Initially, the Olives planned to bring Anna to ¢ S
. and

needs.

“She wasn’t going back to that orphanage, caged and co}
, cold,”

emphasized Olive. But when they got home Jim, who'd |
twin teen-age daughters from a former Marriage in an accid Ost
couldn't give Anna up. “How could we hand her over to somal
else?” Olive concurred. “We'd been through hell to get her,” 7

‘The couple discovered that the medical records had Fo
faked and spent a considerable sum obtaining the real roa
Professionals told them that Anna had probably been severely val
mature and would never walk or talk. “She stayed on my hig until
my knees were ready to give out,” said Olive. “I wanted hel to feel
I was there and wasn’t going to give up on her. There were times ;

when the only peace I had was watching her sleep.” Today Anna
is in kindergarten. She walks and rides a bicycle. “If you had asked

me to tell this story three years ago I would have told it different-

ly,

’

’ said Olive. Now her goal is to see her daughter write.

Some children who are raised in orphanages can suffer from
emotional attachment disorder, a result of little human contact
when they are young. ‘lypically, orphanages in developing coun-
tries are understaffed and underfunded. “Like most new parents
we are asking for a lot of advice,” said Richard Seamon, Visiting
professor of law. “We don’t know to what extent any difficulties or
behavior are a result of Marguerite having been in an orphanage
and taken away from her primary caretaker.” ;

Seamon and his wife, Holly Dawkins, adopted Marguerite
Yun Dawkins from China last spring. He traveled with a group of

adoptive parents to China. The group never saw the orphanage;

“I worry about racism and how
LCG CALL
RGEC
He [Chris] wants to be an ulter
Virzinian kid. You walk a AL
to make them totally integrated 0

be proud of their heritage 7

ORC eo

PROFESSOR OF Ors

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

II the childr

instead a :
hotel!

: aa
che grouP >
e babies began
n ruefull

(0
all th
said Seamo
Flexibility certainly oO
scessa - considering inter-
onal adoption. Buchanan ’98L

his wife, Cindy, h id to change coun-

seems to be a

ry trait for th:

and
ries after getting tO

China. Right after

che country decided to

he top of the list in

were approved
require both adop-
rive parents to be over 35. Since she was
only 33 at the time, the couple switched
ced Harrison from

ro Vietnam. They ado

Sok Trang, Vietnam, Vv hen Buchanan was
still a law student at W&L. “We got the
call during Christmas break. It was my
last semester of law school, and I was

2000 pages behind in my reading.
Luckily my professors were sympathet-
ic.” confessed Buchanan.

“As difficult a process as people might
perceive it to be it is every bit as reward-
ing as having biological children. Not
only do you avoid the problems associat-
ed with open adoption, you take a child
that has no future and change that. For
the orphans in Sok ‘Trang the life
expectancy is 30. By the time they’re 11
theyre picking rice,” explained
Buchanan. “Even though we’d seen pho-

tographs of the orphanage, we were still

shocked at the conditions,” he admitted.
“Even though we’d sent toys, there were
hone there. The children aren’t given
Solid food until they are 3 or 4, although
they do receive good medical care.”

In 2000, the Buchanans adopted 18-
month-old twins, Cate and Ella from the
‘ame province. The gency was frank
about the girls’ futur —one was quite
sickly, and both still suffer from severe
asthma. “On our second visit the orphan-
age had improved. Somer imes you wonder
re all the money goes, but a lot of the
COSt is supporting the facility.”

“You do have to deal |

ty with some pover-
Y-related issues—

Poor nutrition, institu-

n were brought by their primary caretakers
‘he caretakers all left the room and at once

» cry inconsolably until they fell asleep,”

“We knew something

WAS VErY WONE.
She [Anna] had
CCUM CLL
but wouldnt eat or
VAMC
We were so devastated,
DUAL LL LOG

had this wonderful

child alive in our arms.

TALL
LL CLL
YLANG LL
LY MALL ANNA
How could we return
her like a piece of
WIV eae

Sue Olive

ACADEMIC COMPUTING
AND NETWORK SPECIALIST

tionalization, fetal alcohol syndrome,” concurred Kirby Mullen,
who with her husband, director of communications ‘Tom White,

adopted 15-month-old Daniel Constantine White from Moldova in

July of 2000. Initially the couple had signed
up for the Russia program, but switched to
Moldova because the country was more
agrarian and less polluted.

While White and Mullen were in
Moldova the government halted all inter-
national adoptions. Fortunately they were
already in the country and their process was
so far along their adoption was not imped-
ed. “International programs can at times
be capricious or unstable, subject to the
political whims of the country,” admitted
White. “But we could not feel more lucky.
Daniel is completely well-adjusted.”

“Adoption is a good thing,” added
Mullen. “We hope Dan will embrace that.”
‘The couple has been completely honest
with Daniel about his origins. “The
current thinking is to be open and forth-
right about adoption,” said White.

David Caudill, professor of law, who
with his ex-wife adopted his son, Chris,
from Korea in 1991, told their child he was
adopted when he was between 4 and 6.
“You need to tell the children their full
story, how their mom wanted them to have
a fabulous life,” he said. ‘Iransracial adop-
tions can add some further complications,
especially when the family resides in a
small, mostly homogeneous environment,
such as Lexington.

“I worry about racism and how he is
treated, although there are six or eight
Asian children around. He wants to be an
utterly Virginian kid. You walk a thin line to
make them totally integrated but be proud
of their heritage,” admitted Caudill.

Phil and Joan O’Mara, who adopted
Kaitlin from Korea in 1984 when she was 6-
months-old and then adopted Philip in
1986 when he was 4, agreed. “It wasn’t
always easy, but it’s not even if you have
biological children,” noted Joan O’Mara,
professor of art history.

‘The O’Mara’s son refused to ride the

 

 

 

 

BUCHANAN AND HIS WIFE, CINDY, ADOPTED TWIN DAUGHTERS ELLA (IN HIS ARMS) AND CATE AND SON HARRISON.

“As difficult a process as people might percewve it to be,

it 1s every lit as rewarding as having liological children.

Not only do you avoid the problems associated with open adoption,

you take a ld that has no future and change that.”

Bob Buchanan

school bus after being harassed for being Asian. “But it’s hard
growing up, period,” said O’Mara. “Kids will always have some
kind of conflict they will have to deal with.” As an infant Philip
had been abandoned. “We are dealing with things that may
have happened in his developing years,” O’Mara explained.
“But every child no matter how old they are needs a stable
home and parents who love them.”

Despite uncertainties about an adoptive child’s background and

possible glitches in the adoption process, this group’s general

 

ec :) &

response to foreign adoption was positive. “International adoption
is a great way to go. There are millions of kids out there who need
homes,” said O’Mara. “But you need to be honest about what you
can deal with and not feel bad about saying no to a situation you
don’t feel you could handle.” Seamon agreed, “It’s very exciting
and terrifying and incredibly gratifying. We wouldn’t hesitate to rec-

ommend it to other people.” 4

 

Lort Stevens ts a freelance writer hving in Lexington.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“[nternational adoption ts a great way to go.
There are millions of kids out there who need homes.
But you need to be honest about what you can
deal with and not feel bad about saying no

ORY LLL LCL RL
you could handle.”

Joan O’Marda,

PROFESSOR OF ART HISTORY

How the Adoption Process Works

 

As international adoption becomes more commonplace, it also
is becoming easier. Although it tends to be more costly than domes-
tic adoption, with overall costs ranging from $15,000 to $25,000, not
including travel, last year the adoption tax credit increased from
$5,000 to $10,000 per child. In 2000 Congress also passed a law that
made children entering the U.S. with a final order of adoption auto-
matic citizens; previously they had to apply for citizenship.

“When they hear ‘international adoption’ most people think
‘complicated,’” said Marge Savage, adoption program manager for
Catholic Charities in Roanoke. “But it’s very doable. The typical
length of time is about a year. It’s not a matter of ‘if,’ it’s a matter of
‘when.’ If parents don’t qualify for one country, they will qualify for
another. Overall, international adoption is a wonderful option for
most families. There are many children in great need.”

.nyone considering international adoption first undergoes a
home study—a report based on interviews with a licensed social
worker to assess the person’s ability to parent an adoptive child.
Catholic Charities provides 12 hours of preparatory classes as part of
their home study program. “From the parents’ perspective the
home study period is a time of preparation and introspection,”

CX

poral

lained Savage. “It’s a time to address transracial family issues, as
well as issues of adjustment and attachment.”

\fter the home study is completed, a lengthy dossier—including
birth, marriage and divorce certificates, a physician’s report on the
prospective parent’s medical condition and letters verifying employ-
ment, moral character and criminal clearance—must be compiled.

very paper has to be notarized, with the state seal stamped
on them. At that point the papers go to the State Department in

Washington to have its seal added.

Once the home study and paperwork are complete, prospective
parents choose an international agency handling their country of
choice and specify the age, sex and preference about the child’s
health status. ‘The agency will then send the medical record and a
photograph of the child it has matched with the adopter. At that
point the adoptive parent decides whether or not to accept the child
and then waits for the notice to travel.

Savage suggests that prospective parents do their research first
and choose an agency that handles more than one country, as coun-
tries can curtail adoptions due to investigations or reorganizations in
response to the Hague Adoption Convention, which the United
States signed in 1994. ‘lhe Convention covers adoptions between
countries that become parties to it and sets forth norms and proce-
dures, including centralizing and accrediting adoption agencies.

‘The goal of the Convention is to protect the children, birth
parents and adoptive parents involved in foreign adoptions and
to prevent child-trafficking and other abuses. ‘The Convention
promotes a permanent placement for the child, first within the
child’s family, then the child’s country of origin, but provides
that a permanent placement outside the country ts preferable to
remaining in orphanage care.

Currently Romania is on hold for restructuring, and the U. S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service has halted adoptions
in Cambodia.

‘Those interested in international adoption should call the State
Department at 202-736-7000 for 24-hour recorded information for
several countries. [he Web is also an excellent resource for
prospective adoptive parents. A good place to start is the State

Department’s Web site at http://travel.state.gov/adopt.html ¢

 

“—- 1 8 36 ——_C>

Albert J. Durante

and his wife, Lynn, celebrated

their 57th wedding anniversary

quietly at home, as Durante is not

well. They live in Flushing, N.Y.
Di. £Oe? >

James A. Byers
moved to Summit Square
Retirement Community in
Waynesboro, Va.

<>... (940 —— <>
C. Edward Blair
is still enjoying cruising the Florida
Everglades.

Cae SAY o>

The Hon. Paul D. Brown ('43L)
reports that his younger son, David
M. Brown, is an astronaut and is
scheduled for a flight of 16 days in
orbit for research. Brown lives in
Washington, Va.

Richard M. Herndon

drove from his home in Winter
Springs, Fla., to his 60th reunion at
homecoming last fall, then fol-
lowed up with two 1,100-mile
round trips to north Georgia, a 16-
day trip to Japan, as well as a 12-
day trip to Arizona in the colorful
Sedonas. He says it was demand-
ing but rewarding.

i. 1942 —

Custave A. Essig
turned 87 on June 11 and says that
time does fly. He lives — in
Miamisburg, Ohio.

O—- 1943 —S&»

Linton F. Murdock

is still winning gold medals in the
master’s swimming program. He
lives in Palm Beach, Fla.

Corneal B. Myers

is still practicing law after 54 years.

He lives in Lake Wales, Fla.
OO 1944 —S>

Harrison B. Kinney

will have his collection of James

‘Thurber letters published by

Simon & Schuster in the fall.

Kinney resides at Kendal in

Lexington.

Dr. Lloyd H. Smith Jr.
is attending his Harvard Medical
School reunion this year. He
received the university medal from
University of California at San
Francisco for contributing over 38
years of faculty membership, 21 as
chair of the department of medi-
cine. He lives in San Francisco.
O— 1946—&>
The Hon. T. Ryland
Dodson ('47L)
practiced law from 1947 to 1978

and was a judge from 1978 until
1998. He still substitutes for regu-
lar judges anyplace in Virginia,
including Lexington. He enjoys
the W&L Alumni Programs.
Dodson lives in Danville, Va.
fe Oe ec
Lt. Col. Henry M. Barker
stull attends 8th Air Force reunions
although the numbers grow fewer
each time. Barker lives in
Knoxville, ‘Tenn.

William A. Chipley

writes that he hates to see, from
time to time, that some of the guys
he knew and loved have dropped
along the way. He lives in Lookout
Mountain, ‘[enn.

Dr. W. Hugh Moomaw

has turned himself into a railroad
historian since he has retired and
published Virginmia’s Belt Line
Railroad, The Norfolk © Portsmouth
in 1998, which was awarded a
Virginia joint Senatorial Resolu-
tion of Commendation. He is now
well into his next book Virginia’s
Railroads, 1810-1914. He lives

in Virginia Beach.

Richard H. Turrell

has lived in ‘Tequesta, Fla., since
1994. ‘The time has zipped by,
since he keeps active with ‘The
ARC of Martin County, Kiwanis in
Palm Beach, his Phi Delta ‘Theta
Alumni Club of Palm Beach and
his lousy golf game and the
Republican Party.

OO 1950—S>

Dr. Donald D. Hook

has two new books out in 2002.
Switching Churches: A Layman’s
Guide to a New Commitment dis-
cusses the turmoil in the churches
today. His other book, Psychograms
of Sickness and Death, is semi- auto-
biographical. Both are available
through Amazon.com, Barnes &
Noble and in bookstores.

James T. Trundle

is still active in real estate sales. He
also tutors African-American chil-
dren from Camden, N.J. He works
out and walks, and says he could
“play soccer a good five minutes
without passing out.”

o£ Oe ee

The Hon. Sol Wachtler (’52L)
is a professor of law at ‘Touro Law
School and was selected by that
law school and the Free University
of Berlin to chair the International
Wansee Seminar held in Berlin,
Germany, this past summer.

ye ee Oe ee ee eee, ee ee

 

Robert Balentine '79 and his wife, Betty, were en route to the
U.S. from London on Sept. 11, 2001, when the pilot informed them

the flight was being diverted to St.
John’s, New Foundland. In a talk to
the Atlanta Rotary Club, Ballentine
describes the experience as Kaf-
kaesque. Here is an excerpt from
those remarks.

[Once on the ground] buses took

us to the local hockey arena where we
were registered, fed and given water
by the Salvation Army and Red
Cross before being assigned to local
schools and churches. Our group
finally arrived at Holy Heart of

Mary High School late at night to bed down on the gym floor. I now

had a sense of how a refugee must feel. The remarkable thing about our :

ordeal thus far was the sense of calm among the passengers, the unbe- : 4
lievable hospitality of the local St. John’s town folk and the

indomitable American spirit.

Passengers formed a unique sense of community. Once strangers,

scared and confused, there was laughter and joking in the halls and

new friendships were formed. Socio-economic, racial and cultural

barriers were broken down quickly as everyone focused on just getting ?

home. Although the hallways sounded like a cacophony from the low ower

of Babel, there were smiles on most faces.

Our experience, which didn’t compare to the suffering of those in

New York and Washington, directed our focus to the important things
in life. A full stomach and a place to sleep, fellowship with one anoth- |
er and, above all, an unyielding faith in God matters.

None of what transpired Sept. 11 will ever make sense. But the
good that has come out of this travesty 1s the sense of coming together as

children of God, human beings who have comforted one another and 2
developed a new-found appreciation for the sanctity of life and ones
fellow man. In St. John’s, Newfoundland, we saw it firsthand. I sus-
pect it was there all along. What a shame it took a tragedy to bring it

out. We were naked and they clothed us; we were hungry and they gav

us food; we were tired and they gave us rest; we were comforted.

O.._- 9 § 3 ——_G>

Herbert S. Falk Jr.

received the Greensboro Bar
Association Distinguished Service
Award at its April meeting. During
the last several years Falk has spent
well over 100 pro bono hours
obtaining Social Security survivor-
ship benefits for children born out
of wedlock, preventing a significant
class of needy children from losing
benefits essential to their develop-
ment into productive adults. He

 

also instituted the GBA reading
tutorial program and raised funds
and recruited volunteers to con-
struct GBA’s first home under the
Habitat for Humanity program.

John D. Heard

is looking forward to the big class
reunion next year and hopes to join
his classmates on that occasion. He
lives in Rockwall, ‘Texas.

 

Was

hh

i aud

 

Oe

IM Ae OK

 

 

 

Rodney F. Stock

serves as vice president of the
Northern Nevada Chapter of
Korean War Veterans Associ-
ation—the only chartered Nevada
chapter. He visited with classmates
Parker Smith and Pete Whitlock
on a trip East last fall.

o— 1954—S»
Pau! M. Maslansky
is working on.a series for cable
television based on Elmore
Leonard’s short stories, set in 1898
Arizona territory. He lives in
Malibu, Calif.

co Fes.
Judson H. Rodman
reports he’s just getting older,
thank goodness! He lives in Ports-
mouth, Va.

Os 94> eee al
William B. Fitzgerald III
says his son Bill °91, a captain de-
ployed with the 1st Battalion 155th
Infantry, recerved the Meritorious
Service Medal from the Army.

Dederick C.W. Ward Ill
is a painter with a studio in
Anacortes, Wash.

oO—- 195 8 ——&»
S. Scott Whipple
won two Excellence in Journalism
awards in a competition sponsored
by the Connecticut chapter of the
Society of Professional Journalists.
He won a second place award for
his news feature, “City Native
Recalls Pearl Harbor,” and a sec-
ond place for his sports feature
about the new Britain Rock Cats,
“What Off Season?” Whipple is a
staff writer and columnist for 7he
New Britain Herald and Sunday
Herald Press.

“OW 1959 ——-C>»
Alfred F. Bracher III
continues his squash hardball dou-
bles participation as he winds
down his business career. This past
winter he and his partner won the
Canadian National ‘Title, the
USSRA National Title in New
York City and the World’s Squash
Doubles in Toronto in their age
group. He lives in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Thomas B. Bryant III (’6IL)
had the unusual pleasure of visiting
with two 1959 classmates who start-
ed at W&L and finished elsewhere.
Jerry Chapman from Birmingham
and Rusy Wilderson from Kings-
port, ‘lenn., were in South Carolina
and dropped by for a visit.

Richard F. Cummins
Is €njoying the rocking chair years:
hunting, fishing and playing with

four grandchildren, including
Richard F Cummins HI, W&L
class of 2022. He lives in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

James D. Hague Jr.

was installed in November 2001 as
the master of Harmonic Lodge 356
in the register of the United Grand
Lodge of England. Hague is also a
Shriner (Abou Saad ‘Temple), a
Knight ‘Templar, a 32 Degree
Mason (Valley of San Juan,
Southern Jurisdiction) and a
Knight of Columbus. He lives in
Charlotte Amalie, Virgin Islands.

Theodore R. McKeldin Jr.
enjoys life as an assistant state
attorney general and has no inten-
tion of retiring soon. He enjoys his
first grandchild and can’t wait for
more. He lives in Baltimore.
O49 60... Cc

Malcolm Bobb Burton ('63L)
earned the Harmonie Group’s
Insurance “Claims Person of the
Year Award” in May. Burton has
been employed by Chubb & Son
Inc. since 1963 and is managing
director and senior claims counsel.
He resides with his wife of 44
years, Ray, in Chatham, N.].

Barton A. De Palma

has gone into the movie business
after 35 years in teaching. He has
just returned from two years in
Paris working on the film Femme
Fatale, for which he produced dig-
ital artwork and paintings, as well
as computer programs. He had a
show of digital artwork and pho-
tographs at the Georges Pompidou
Center in Paris in February. He
will return to France to start anoth-
er film in the fall.

Wickliffe Hollingshead

and his wife, Mary, had a visit from
David Church ’80, his wife, Laura,
and two sons. Hollingshead and
his wife also enjoyed the party in
New Hope, Pa., hosted by Don
Eavenson Jr. °73 and his wife,
Susan. ‘The Hollingsheads live in
Clarksboro, N.J.

E. Peter Litton Jr.
retired at the end of March. He
and his wife, Martha, plan to travel
as much as possible in their motor
home. ‘They live in Bristol, Va.
O 1962—c>»
Alan M. Corwin
retired after 25 years with Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter. He now
divides his time between nonprof-
it boards and committees and
political activities. He was on cam-

 

pus in May to support Hillel and
pursue various personal projects.
He lives in Olympia, Wash.

Allyn D. Kantor
is a principal in the Ann Arbor,
Mich., office of the law firm of
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and
Stone P.L.C. and has been appoint-
ed to the board of directors of the
Ann Arbor Symphony Orchestra.
“eee...
The Rev. George M.
Chapman
gathered with his wife, Margie,
and three children and his brother
Edward (Bo) ’70 and his wife,
Mary Ann, and their daughter to
celebrate their mother’s 10th wed-
ding anniversary. ‘The Chapmans
live in Brookline, Mass.

Thomas P. McDavid

and his wife, Sallie, live on the
eastern shore of Maryland. Each of
their three children has become
parents, giving them four grand-
children. ‘Their son Tom is in the
mortgage business and will set up
anyone wanting to relocate to “the
land of pleasant living.”

 

J. Holmes Morrison (‘67L)
relinquished the CEO title for
BB'I-W.Va. operations, but will
remain as chair of the BB’F-W.Va.
State Advisory Board, chair of
BB'I-W.Va. Charitable Foundation
and a board member of the BB&T
Corporate Board. He is enjoying
his time on the W&L Shepherd
Advisory Board. He lives in
Charleston, W.Va.

Bac ¢oaeecs
Dr. Robert A. Paddock
reports that his daughter, Holly,
works 10 blocks from the World
‘Trade Center, but was on the sub-
way when the two planes hit. She
saw the second plane hit when the
train came above ground to cross
the river. Paddock lives in
Naperville, Il.

Consider W. Ross

retired from Northern ‘Trust Co. in
Chicago, but seven months later
became executive director of
BAF’T in Washington. BAF'T is an
international banking trade associ-
ation and became an affiliate of the
American Bankers Association. His
assignment Is to achieve a success-
ful transition to the ABA, after

Sedgwick L. Moss ’54 has fulfilled a lifelong dream and joined the

Arlington, Va., Park Rangers as a seasonal part-time railroad histo-

ry specialist. His summer office was in a former Southern Railway

1922 caboose at Bluemont Park along the Washington and Old

Dominion Biker-Hiker trail. The original restored railcar will serve

as a combination information-welcome center, first-aid station and

bicycle repair shop. Moss’ new title is “The Lone Ranger.”

 

 

A LL UM SN

 

which he will return to retirement.
Ross and his wife, Lotti, are enjoy-
ing getting to know D.C. and look
forward to visiting Lexington.

E. Randolph Wootton Jr.
joined O’Neill Communications in
Marietta, Ga., as vice president,
marketing and business develop-
ment. O’Neill Communications ts a
marketing, public relations, web site
and advertising firm serving cus-
tomers in Atlanta and nationwide.
O__- 1966 —c>

Andrew N. Baur

was elected to a two-year term as
chairman of the National Kidney
Foundation. He received a trans-
plant in 1999. He continues as chait-
man of Southwest Bank and secre-
tary/treasurer of St. Louis Cardinals
L.P. He resides in St. Louis.

Michael E. Lawrence
reports his daughter, Catherine
Lawrence 796, married ‘lodd
Oomens on April 6 on Hilton
Head Island, S.C., where the new-
lyweds will reside.

fine £ ee tT. >

Benjamin B. Cummings Jr. ("7OL)
retired as vice president of real
estate for both Circuit City stores
and Carmax Auto Superstores Inc.
after 17 years with the former. He
has established a commercial real
estate consulting firm in
Richmond under the name of
Cummings Real Estate Advisory
Services L.L.C., providing adviso-
ry services to retailers, shopping
center developers and corporate
services, brokerage and manage-
ment firms.

Lawrence Fellman
is repaying his debt to society and
professor emeritus John Gunn °45
by teaching common sense eco-
nomics at S.M.U.’s School of
Continuing Education.

Rev. Thomas J. Holden Ill
began a new ministry as associate pas-
tor for congregational care, assimila-
tion and evangelism at First
Presbyterian Church in Harrison-
burg, Va., after 12 years as planned giv-
ing officer for Sunnyside Presbytenan
Retirement Community.

Dr. John R. McCill

serves on the board of directors of
the American Society of Plastic
Surgeons (ASPS) representing the
Northeastern states, and also
serves as an alternate delegate to
the American Medical Association
representing the ASPS. He lives in
Bangor, Maine.

 

 

3 ee

 

New Members of the Alumni Board

Emily C. Bevill '89 is an analyst with Fidelity
Investments in Boston. She joined Fidelity in
1996 after graduating from
Duke University Fuqua
School of Business with a
master’s in business admin-
istration. She has been
president of the New
England Chapter of the
Alumni Associations since 2000 and _ co-class
agent since 1999.

Elizabeth A. Cummins '89 received a
masters of education in counseling from
Vanderbilt University in
1996. For the past six years,
she has been a school coun-
selor at Fairview Middle
School in Fairview, ‘Tenn., a
community outside of
Nashville. Cummins has
been involved in_ the
Middle ‘Tennessee Alumni Chapter, where she
has served as treasurer, vice president and presi-
dent. She has also been a co-class agent and 1s
currently a committee member of the Alumni
Admissions Program.

James W. DeYoung '65 is founder and
president of Winston Partners Inc., based in
Chicago, a financial and
marketing consulting § ser-
vices firm, providing corpo-
rate advisory and investor
relations services to small

and mid-size public and

private companies. His
youngest son, Andrew,
attends W&L.
J. Thad Ellis '82 is a managing drector of
CarrAmerica Realty

Corp. He has served as
president of the W&L
Atlanta Alumni Chapter, as
well as head of the Alumni
Admissions Board. He 1s
currently a member of the
W&L Alumni Athletic Council and the ee
Steering Committee for the capital drive.

Lee M. Hollis '86 worked as a commercial

loan officer with First Union National Bank in

 

 

 

Charlotte and later in Nashville. In 1989 Hollis
entered Vanderbilt University School of
Law. Upon graduation
Hollis

went to work for the law

from law school,

firm of Lightfoot, Franklin
& “ae LLG wm

Birmingham, Ala., where

 

he is now a partner. He has
served as a board member and president of both
the Nashville and Birmingham Alumni Chapters
and has been active in the On the Shoulders of
Giants Capital Campaign, Annual Fund drives
and was fundraising chairman of the class of 1986
Memorial Scholarship and chairman of the
Birmingham 250th Celebration. In 1994 Hollis
was one of the first two recipients of the
Distinguished Young Alumni Award. Currently,
Hollis is chairman of the Birmingham effort in
tie For the
Campaign.
Edward T. Taylor Il ’81 is a senior vice pres-
ident and partner with Delta Asset Management
LLG.

ment

Rising Generation Capital

a private invest-
counseling firm
based in Memphis, ‘Tenn.,
that focuses on discre-
tionary management of
common stock and fixed

P. income portfolios for cor-
porations, tea duals retirement plans, pensions
and foundations. ‘Taylor has served W&L as
Alumni Chapter vice president, Alumni Chapter
president, Alumni Chapter board of director and
on the Alumni Chapter 250th Celebration com-
mittee.

Edward P. Tiffey ‘9OL is an attorney in
Charleston, W.Va., where he advises and repre-
sents clients in litigation,
business and government
matters. Last year, he
opened’ an office § im
Charleston to resume his
law practice. He has been
W&L w &

Charleston, W.Va., alumni chapter as secretary,

active in the

 

vice president and president. Currently, he is a
board member of the Charleston Alumni

Chapter and 1s also a class agent.

 

 

 

Alan T. Rains Jr.

is executive director of Family,
Career and Community Leaders
of America in Reston, Va., and was
elected to the steering committee
of Join Hands Day, the only
national day in America seeking to
build youth and adult relationships

through partnership volunteering, ©

He lives in Alexandria, Va.

William L. Walker Jr.
published The Story of Pinewood,
qa history to commemorate the 50th
anniversary of the preparatory
school in Summerville, S.C., where
Walker is director of development.
OQ 1968——>
Charles C. Lewis ('7IL)
says he has a new grandchild,
Brynn Dollins Lavender, born
June 17, 2001, to his older daugh-
ter, Rebecca, and her husband,
Mark. Also, his younger daughter,
Brooke, was married to H. David
Speer III, on April 21, 2001. Lewis
lives in Buies Creek, N.C.

Richard E. Rivera
was promoted to the newly created
position of vice chairman at Darden
Restaurants Inc., the nation’s largest
casual dining company and
Orlando-based parent of Red
Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama
Breeze and Smokey Bones BBQ.
He lives in Orlando, Fla.

O—— 1969 —S»
C. William Allen Jr.
enjoys practicing law in his own
office in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and
sailing his catamaran to the
Bahamas. His daughter Katy is
now a junior in high school and will
be looking at colleges soon.

Robert M. Buxton
joined Barlow Partners in New
York City, as a registered institu-
tional hedge fund manager in
research. He earned his CFA des-
ignation in 1998. His wife, Anne, is
an artist. His son Nicky, 11, plays
hockey for the New York City
Cyclones ‘Iravel Hockey ‘Team as
well as for the Buckley School. His
son Henry, 10, does gymnastics at
Chelsea Piers on West 23rd Street.
“O19 70
Lawrence E. Honig
has’. been named CEO . of
Spartanburg-based Volume Ser-
vices America, the number two
provider of food service, merchan-
dise and venue management for
large, prestigious sports stadiums,
arenas and convention centers
(including Yankee Stadium,
FedEx Field, PacBell Park and
Javits Convention Center). His
daughter, Ellenor, begins her
junior year at Harvard in the fall.
O—- 1971

Dr. William M. Jacobs
moved back to Lexington in 1999
and started Stonewall Pediatrics,
the first pediatric practice in
Lexington in over two decades.
Returning to the W&L communi-
ty, living and working in the same
area where he went to college has
been a unique and special experi-
ence for Jacobs. His practice has
grown so rapidly that he is now
looking for a partner.

Stephen H. Kerkam

retired from Verizon after 23 years.
He is the president of the ‘Tourism
Council of Carroll County and
serves on the business and educa-
tion committee of the chamber of

Mingling with the Stars

 

Andy Cunagin 793 (left) and David Hunter ’93 (right) at a char-
ity event in New York City with Daniel Radcliffe, star of the

blockbuster movie Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.

te, Ms © ee ee eee ee eee ae

 

commerce. He is working with a
local organization for a respite care
home for developmentally dis-
abled individuals. His bed and
breakfast continues to thrive. He
lives in Linwood, Md.

B. Christopher Lee
is amember of Jacoby Donner P.C.
and has been accepted to the
mediation panel of the Chartered
Institute of Arbitrators. Lee is the
first mediator from the North
American branch to serve on the
panel. ‘The Institute is headquar-
tered in London but provides neu-
tral arbitrators and mediators
worldwide for resolution of inter-
national disputes. He lives in
Strafford, Pa.

Cine OTS GC
W. Henry Jernigan ('75L)
opened a Charleston, W.Va., office
of Dinsmore & Shohl L.L.P. He is
a partner with the firm and prac-
tices in the areas of natural
resources and civil litigation, spe-
cializing in products liability and
mass tort defense. His colleagues
are Christopher Power ’83 and
Brace R. Mullett ’01L.

“2... Oy S.C
R. Bryan Hatchett
joined Scripps Networks as vice
president, business affairs. Scripps
owns a number of cable services
and is the managing partner of
Food Network. He resides in New
York City.

fia (Te
Chester F. Burgess Ill
will be back at W&L in the fall
term as a visiting instructor of jour-
nalism, filling in for Assistant
Professor Claudette Artwick who
will be on sabbatical. Burgess will
be teaching courses in electronic
journalism, broadcast reporting
and television news producing.

Paul C. Cavaliere Jr.
is principal of Sage Park Middle
School in Windsor, Conn., and was
named the 2002 CAS Middle
School Principal of the Year.

Ray-Eric Correia

was appointed president of
Roanoke Catholic School. He has
served as Roanoke Catholic Upper
School principal and assistant prin-
cipal for the past eight years. He
lives in Rockbridge County with
his wife, Kathleen, an indepen-
dent journalist.

Oo 1975 —&>

Robert K. Bailey Ill
left his position as senior vice pres-
ident at Union Bank and ‘Trust to

become chief operating officer at
Peoples Community Bank. His
entire family enjoys first person
historical interpretation at a num-
ber of local venues; they portray
the family of John Augustine
Washington, younger brother of
George Washington. ‘They reside
in Spotsylvania, Va.

O—- 1976 —S»
Peter R. Cavalier
was approved as a senior credit
officer, the highest professional
designation for a career credit offi-
cer at Citigroup, where he has
been for 21 years. His supervisor is
Alan Le Vine ’69, also a SCO. His
wife, Marjorie, is a high school
social studies teacher and was
elected to the Middletown, N.].,
board of education. Son Matthew
will be a freshman at Philadelphia
University majoring in industrial
design. ‘Twins Michael and Joseph
will be freshmen in high school.

Peter A. J. MacHare
has been elected president of The
Duke Ellington Society Inc. in
Washington. Visit his Web site at
depanorama.net.

iii ere Seg

Col. Richard P. Fink
graduated from the U.S. Army War
College, receiving a third master’s
degree in strategic studies. He will
become chief of staff for the 78th
Division ‘Training Support in
Edison, N.J. Fink had a great time
at the 25th reunion and hopes to
become more active in alumni
activities.

oO 1978 —S>
Travis E. Bass
and his wife, Laurie, welcomed
the arrival of their first grandchild
born June 17 to their son Ed and

his wife, Lauren. Bass lives in
Roswell, Ga.

The Rev. Victor H. Forsyth Jr.
received the ‘Texas Middle School
Association Outstanding ‘Teacher
of the Year in Region 16 (‘Texas
Panhandle). He and his wife, Pam,
have been called to serve as the
Bible teacher and worship leader
for the Wednesday evening service
at the Amarillo Cowboy Church.

Dr. Robert N. Mucciola
returned to his hometown,
Windber, Pa., to practice gynecolo-
gy and assume the role of clinical
director of the Joyce Menthe
Breast Care Center and Windber
Research Institute.

 

Wa@wehkhs a ¢ t* x

and

 

Eee ME A GU mw I

Ma me G@ ASZ

I

 

Crab your skis and snowboards and head west! The Third
Annual Alumni Ski ‘Trip is planned for Feb. 26-March 2, 2003. Park

City, Utah, is the place to be
next winter. With a new loca-
tion and the “Greatest Snow
on Earth,” the third annual
Washington and _ Lee
University Alumni Associ-
ation ski trip is one vacation
you won't want to miss.

‘This is a terrific oppor-
tunity to explore three of
Utah ’s finest ski resorts with

 

W&L alumni, family and friends. You’ll ski some of the mountain-

sides that welcomed the world’s best athletes during the 2002 Winter

Olympics, wine and dine in Utah’s liveliest night spots and mix and

mingle with members of the U.S. Ski Team.

“Minks on the Moguls” will be headquartered at The Canyons,

Park City’s newest resort, which offers 140 trails over eight mountain
peaks. We will also ski Park City Mountain Resort and Deer Valley,
both Olympic venues. With 100 trails and a lift that drops you right

onto Main Street, Park City Mountain Resort promises a day of fun.

Deer Valley i is known for its first-rate service and excellent SOE

promising a great experience.

Packages include lodging, lift tickets and some group entertain-

_ ment and dining.

Don’t miss the chance to experience this “Olympic” vacation.

, Gather your favorite group of alumni, family and friends and reserve

_a spot today. For more information, please visit our Web site, alum-
_ni.wlu.edu or contact the Alumni Office at (540) 458-8464.

W. Cordon Ross Il

and his family have returned from
nine years in Europe and are now
happily ensconced in the family
farm in northwest Connecticut.
When he is not mucking the sheep
pen, he is the New England direc-
tor of sales for Merrill Lynch’s pri-
vate client business.

CRen 2 ORO no

Theodore B. Martin Jr.
wrote that he and Andrew DeYoung
05 defeated Jim Lawson ’77 and
Jim DeYoung ’65 on the tennis
courts at W&L during Homecom-
ing weekend. The all-Chicago
alumni tennis match was held at
W&L for the first time. DeYoung
and Lawson both played varsity ten-
nis for W&L and were surprised by
the upset. Martin and the young
DeYoung were not surprised.
Martin lives in Wilmette, III.

William W. Paxton

and his wife, Carter, enjoyed catch-
ing up with old friends and fraterni-
ty brothers Robert Clements ’80,
Hagood Morrison ’79, Howell
Morrison ’76 and Edward Morrison
80 during a recent weekend in
Charleston. He reports they all look
like the day they graduated. The
Paxtons live in Lynchburg, Va.

Daniel J. Weeks

received a mini-grant of $2,197
from the New Jersey Historical
Commission to do research for a
book on John Bowne of Middle-
town, N.J. The grant is Week’s
third from the New _ Jersey
Historical Commission. He is
the author of Nor for Filthy
Lucre’s Sake: Richard Sattar and
the Antiproprietary Movement in
Last New Jersey, 1665-1707, as

well as two collections of poems.

ed Oe © ee ee Be ee ee ee

 

fos £94 36

Cc. Bryan Williams

received the 2002 Women’s Coach
of the Year honors for leading the
women to a terrific finish at the
President’s Athletic Conference
‘Track and Field Championship
Meet. He lives in Greenville, Pa.

Madison T. Woodward III
started up a new Gulf of Mexico
natural gas exploration and _pro-
duction company called ‘Tana
Exploration with two former co-
workers. ‘The company is based in
Houston.

“O—__ 198382 —<>
J. Cabell Acree Ill
moved with his wife, Kassy, and
their daughter, Neely, to the
Spartanburg, S.C., area, where he
is senior vice president, general
counsel, of Expopack L.L.PC., a
flexible packaging manufacturer.

R. Blake Witherington
is a managing director at J.P.
Morgan Investment Management
where he heads fixed income
research. He and his wife, Margo,
live in Manhattan with their son,
Kellam, 9, and daughter, Emma, 7.
ou 4983 —— Cc»
Cmdr. Thomas L. Egbert
works for American Airlines, flying
the Super-80 out of Dallas-Fort
Worth Airport. He is also in the
U.S. Navy Reserves flying the FA-
18 Hornet. He recently took over
as commanding officer of VFA-204
River Rattlers.

Christopher Power
joined the firm of Dinsmore &
Shohl L.L.P. as a partner. He con-
tinues to be a civil litigator, special-
izing in natural resources and envi-
ronmental issues. His colleagues in
the Charleston, W.Va., office are
Henry Jernigan ’72, ’75L and
Brace Mullett ’01L.

O— 1984 —&>»
Timothy A. Valliere
works as a litigator in New York
City, where he resides. ‘Technically
he changed jobs last year, when
Richards & O’Neil L.L.P. merged
into Bingham Dana L.L.P, a
Boston-based law firm.

“2. {| gas —_c>

Steven B. Keros

relocated from Virginia to San
Francisco to work for Lyondell
Chemical Company, headquar-
tered in Houston. Keros hopes to
be transferred from San Francisco
to Japan by the year’s end.

Steven C. Logan

relocated from Baltimore to
Chappaqua, N.Y., to accept a posi-
tion as senior vice president of
Aetna’s Northeast region. He and
his wife, Kim, have a daughter,
Ellie.

B. Scott Tilley

is the general counsel of Stihl Inc.,
the world’s largest brand of chain
saws, as well as manufacturers of a
full line of outdoor power equip-
ment, in Virginia Beach, Va.

William E. White III

accepted the position of vice presi-
dent of sales with Textore Inc., a
text mining solutions firm in
Arlington, Va.

James L. Wood

was elected to city council in
Virginia Beach, the largest city in
Virginia, on May 7. Wood garnered
49.19 percent of the vote in a
three-way race for the Lynnhaven
District seat. He and his wife,
Rebecca, have two children.

O__- 1986 ——>

Mark N. Fishman

opened his own law practice in
Park Ridge, IIl., after serving eight
years as labor counsel and director
of labor relations for the clerk of
the Circuit Court of Cook County.
He also serves as an alderman in
Park Ridge.

Nelson R. Patterson

moved to the Seattle area as the
new director of marketing for
Sonosite, the world leader in the
manufacturing and development
of hand-carried ultrasound devices.

James J. White IV

is president of Nisbet Oil

Company in Charlotte, N.C. He

and his wife, Anne, and their three

children enjoy life in the Carolinas.
O19 87

Sydney M. Coffin

“retired” from First Union Bank
after 14 years to take care of her
two sons, Hugh Marthinson and
Charles Detlow. The family live in
Charlotte, N.C.

John C. Koedel Ill

accepted a new position with Vero
Consulting, a national firm out of
Richmond, working in the execu-
tive benefits and compensation
industry.

Timothy C. McMahon
is a visiting professor of history at
Marquette University. Last spring,

 

 

 

 

 

 

he received the Faculty Star
‘Teaching Award from the National
Residence Hall Honorary Society
for his classroom teaching and ser-
vice to the students.

cregory E. Turley

relocated to McAllen, ‘Texas, in the _

Rio Grande Valley. He is an attor-
ney with his own practice. In April,
he completed the MS 150 Bike
‘Tour from Houston to Austin, a
distance of 175 miles.
Q— 1988—o

Dr. J. Marshall Boswell Jr.
is an assistant professor of English
at Rhodes College in Memphis,
‘Tenn., and received the Clarence
Day Award for Outstanding
‘Teaching, which includes a $7,500
honorarium. He is the author of
two books of literary criticism, as
well as /n Between Things: Short
Svories, forthcoming from Algon-
quin Books of Chapel Hill this fall.

Bayard E. Lyons

is a Ph.D. candidate at the
University of California at Los
Angeles and was one of 10 recipi-
ents nationwide of the Woodrow
Wilson-Johnson & Johnson disser-
tation grant to support doctoral
work in women’s health and chil-
dren’s health. Lyons works in the
field of anthropology; his proposed
dissertation title 1s “Studying the
Relationship of Masculinity to
Moral Experience Among ‘Turkish
Adolescents in Four Moral
Communities.”

Andrew B. Parkey
received his master’s of divinity
degree from Union ‘Theological
Seminary and Presbyterian School
of Christian Education.

OW 1989 —-o
Christopher D. Casey
joined Deutsche Bank as director
in their new ‘Texas institutional
equity sales office.

Dr. Joseph F. Rowe III

is an instructor in cardiothoracic
Surgery at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham. He will
be joining Cardiovascular Surgical
Associates in Roanoke. He and his
wife, Anne Henley, have a 2-year-
old daughter, Kennon Sarah.

Christopher L. Willard

is a partner in the law firm Willard
& Willard L.L.P. He is raising
three children, Keenan, 6, Emma,
4, and Davis, 3. He reports that
Parenting is harder than he ever
Imagined, but he is surviving. The
family live in Raleigh, N.C.

 

 

 

Fun in the sun at the Orlando chapter picnic. Joining the party

were (from left) Craig Graham ’76 and his wife, Susan, Susan
Dunn, holding daughter Natalie, Nathan Dunn ’94 and Wade

Robinett 793.

a spyee eS

Nancy H. Baughan

has become a partner in the law
firm of Parker, Hudson, Rainer &
Dobbs in Atlanta. Her practice
focuses on commercial litigation.

Reid T. Campbell

moved back to New Canaan,
Conn., with his wife, Suzanne, and
children, Ashley, 12, and Morgan,
5. He is vice president, finance, for
Fund American Companies Inc.,
the U.S. holding company of
Bermuda-based White Mountains

Insurance Group.

Eve L. Mullen

published her second book,
Religion and the Political Imagi-
nation in a Ghanging South Africa
(Gordon Mitchell, Eve Mullen,
eds.), now available from Wax-
mann Publishing. ‘The book ts vol-
ume three in the series Re/gion
and Society in Transition. She
lives in Mississippi State, Miss.

Todd C. Peppers

left his position as an attorney at an
Atlanta law firm to take a position
as an assistant professor of political
science and criminal justice at
Roanoke College in Salem, Va.
Joining Peppers 1n his return to the
mountains of Virginia will be his
wife, Michele, and his daughter,
Gabby.

Phillip L. Sampson Jr.
is a partner in the law firm of
Bracewell & Patterson L.L.P. He is

a trial attorney in Houston, with an
emphasis on civil litigation in the
areas of commercial, real estate,
intellectual property, products lia-
bility, construction, employment,
insurance and personal injury mat-
ters.
O—- 199 1 ——©>

Christopher C. Baradel
completed the Anchorage
Midnight Sun Marathon and is in
training for the New York City
Marathon in early November. He
lives in Atlanta.

C. Caldwell Hart Jr.

reports that his daughter, Laura
Bryer, was baptized on Jan. 13. In
attendance were her grandfather,
Charles C. Hart ’63, and her godfa-
ther, Mason VanSciver ’90. ‘The
family live in Branford, Conn.

Dr. Tracy E. Norman
graduated magna cum laude from
the University of Pennsylvania’s
School of Veterinary Medicine.
She will be working at Blue Ridge
Equine Clinic, outside Charlot-
tesville, Va.

Angus B. Rosborough
is still happily living in London.
He is now running ING’s
European high yield bond
research group.

Ee Deere SOO I ekg

Peter E. Klingelhofer

ran the Napa Valley Marathon on
March 3 with Paul Garrett, father
of Jacob 97 and Juliann ’03. While
on the West Coast, he also caught

up with fellow Betas, Rich
Weinstein ’91 and Kevin Bauer.
Klingelhofer lives in Columbus,
Ohio.

SO. 4 oes >
John A. Conkling
lives in Austin, ‘lexas and works
with ‘[ravis West 93 and Robert
Wein 794.

Christopher C. Crenshaw
lives in Scottsville, Va., and works for
PAREXEL International Corpor-

ation as a clinical trials monitor.

Donald J. Skelly

completed his first year of business
school at the College of William &
Mary. He spent the summer intern-
ing for Stonehaus Development, a
real estate development company
based in Charlottesville, Va.

Teresa A. Williams

has been serving in the Peace
Corps since 2001 as a health exten-
sion volunteer in Guinea, West
Africa. Her duties include teaching
fundamental hygiene, nutrition,
malaria control and AIDS aware-
ness and prevention in rural vil-
lages. Although she lives without
running water and electricity, she is
enjoying being immersed in a dif-
ferent culture. She plans to return
to the U.S. early next year.

OQ 1994 —&>

Elizabeth Storey Civens
will be attending Stanford
Business School this fall. Her hus-
band, John Givens ’94, runs his
own graphic design studio and
teaches design at several art
schools in San Francisco, where
the couple reside.

Keith E. Crant

enlisted in the Army National
Guard. His writing was honored
for the third straight year in a row
by the New York State Press
Association. He is currently the
senior editor of Long Beach
Herald on Long Island.

Matthew C. Hansen
completed his third year in the
Ph.D. program at the University of
Nebraska at Lincoln. He has two
forthcoming publications: an arti-
cle on using read-throughs in
teaching undergraduates, “How to
Read Shakespeare,” and an article
on Catherine of Aragon in a book-
length collection of essays, “High
and Mighty Queens of Early
Modern Europe: Representations
and Realities,” from Palsgrave
Press.

 

 

Christian B. Keller

is finishing his Fulbright at the
University of Jena in Germany. He
will be teaching American history
at Dickinson College in Carlisle,
Pa., in the fall and is looking for-
ward to Homecoming in October.

Carlin Jones Miller
successfully | defended the
prospectus for her dissertation. She
completed several publications
that have been accepted for publi-
cation and is starting the second
part of her school/neuropsychology
internship at Scottish Rite
Hospital in Atlanta.
O— 1995 —c>

C. Lawson Brice

will take a leave of absence from
IBM to pursue a master’s of busi-
ness administration degree at the
University of ‘Texas at Austin.

Bridget R. Cronin

is moving to Chapel Hill to return
to school. She will work toward a
master’s of business administration
degree at Kenan-Flagler at the
University of North Carolina.

Dr. Melissa McNaull Rhodes
completed her residency training
in pediatrics in June. She is moving
to Nashville to begin a fellowship
in pediatric hematology/oncology

at Vanderbilt. Her husband, ‘Troy,
will also be at Vanderbilt in internal
medicine. She spends her spare
time running and spoiling her 10-
year-old lab, Owen.

Elizabeth C. Weaver
and her husband, Robert McKin-
non 97, are moving to Bergamo,
Italy, to study the Advanced
Montessori Method for teaching
children aged 6-12.

ee ee
Dr. Andrew W. Bidwell
relocated from Blacksburg, Va., to
Puyallup, Wash., where he is an
associate veterinarian with
Firgrove Veterinary Clinic.

Tamara R. Watkins
finished her master’s in counseling
and will be returning to Virginia to
pursue her new career.

OO 1997 —S>

Dr. Anthony J. Mazzarelli

finished the medical portion of his
six-year dual degree in medicine
and law. He obtained his medical
degree from Robert Wood Johnson
Medical School and will finish his
law degree from the University of
Pennsylvania Law School next
May. After finishing the program
he plans to complete a residency in
emergency medicine. He received
the Jaycees U.S. Junior Chamber

Fee eS ee ee ee ee ae

 

10 Outstanding Young Americans
Award in the category of
Community Action and Medicine.
He appeared in the NBC televi-
sion drama “ER” and has con-
tributed to the program’s medical,
legal and bioethical storylines.

Erika M. Snyder

lives in New York City and works
at AOL ‘Time Warner in ‘lime
Inc.’s corporate sales and market-
ing group as senior manager of new
business development.

Stephanie A. Sterling

is a very socially challenged med-
ical student in Philadelphia, but
loving almost every second of it.

Christopher B. Wick (‘OOL)
completed a one-year bankruptcy
clerkship for the Hon. David H.
Adams °65, *68L in Norfolk, Va.
He has moved back to Cleveland,
Ohio, to work as a business litiga-
tion associate at the law firm of
Arter & Hadden.

O—_ 1 99 8 ——S»
Claudia J. Arcuri
was promoted to East Coast
women’s buyer at Nordstrom and
moved back to Old ‘lown
Alexandria, Va.

The Rough Cup Colfers Hold Iith Annual Tournament

 

‘The Rough Cup golfers met for the 11th annual golfing tournament in Jacksonville, Fla. Every year

they meet at a different course around the country, said Caulley Deringer ’86, just to create a little vari-

ety. ‘The tournament is traditionally three days, culminating in 10 two-man teams competing for the

right to have their names permanently etched on the “prestigious” Cup. Kneeling from left to right

are David (Bone’) Eckardt ’86, Gib Davenport ’88, Deringer, Joe Caccamo ’89, John Gammage ’88.
Crouching behind Eckardt is Quinn Barton ’88. Standing (left to right) are Powell Starks ’83, Ross
Singletary ’89, Bill Holmes ’86, Bill Rush ’86, John Church ’87, Mike McAllister ’87, Mason Pope 91,
Joe Luter ’88 and Tommy Donahoo ’88.

Dr. Rebecca L. Bagdonas
graduated from. medical school at
SUNY Upstate Medical
University in Syracuse, N.Y. She
will begin an internship in medi-
cine at North Shore Hospital, fol-
lowed by a residency in anesthesi-
ology at New York Presbyterian
Hospital-Columnia Presbyterian.

Jake E. Blumenthal

left New York for the beaches of
Spain for much needed rest and
relaxation. He will be in Spain for
six to nine months for anyone who
wants to drop in for a visit.

Chris L. Bosworth

moved back to Atlanta last
November to continue his career
with CB Richard Ellis as a com-
mercial real estate broker after
three years with the company in
Washington.

Jennifer C. Brady

left Arthur Andersen and accepted
an audit senior position within the
audit services group at the American
Red Cross in Arlington, Va.

Alexandria L. Kappel
eraduated from the University of
Virginia with a master’s degree in
early childhood special education.
She will teach a class of autistic
children in the Henrico County
school district in the fall and hopes
to meet up with W&L alumni in
Richmond, where she now resides.
She enjoyed a recent visit with
Peggy Stuntz °99 and Emily
Barnes ’01.

Andrew P. Kintz

is in his fourth year working for
SunTrust Bank as a commercial
relationship manager. He is in an
a cappella group, Sound Invest-
ment, with Garry Hill 99.

David J. Lawrence

and his wife, Hallie, recently
moved from Washington to Austin,
where he will pursue a master’s of
business administration degree at
the University of ‘Texas at Austin.

Leigh A. Lundstrom
transferred to San Francisco with
her company, BBDO West, where
she is the human resources manag-
er. She loves the city.

Dr. Mary E. Pressly
graduated from medical school at
MUSC in Charleston, S.C. She has
begun her residency in pediatrics
at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

 

cregory R. Ruthig
is working on his Ph.D in biology
at the University of Virginia.

Christie Caloudas
Viahakos
and her husband, George, live in
Austin, where she is teaching
Spanish and he has finished his
second year at the University of
Texas Law. In the fall they will be
going to London for a study abroad
program.

O— 1999 —&»
Casey M. Cilmore
is a paramedic in San Francisco.

Charlotte C. Craham

received a first-place award from
the Virginia Press Association for
her six-part series’ entitled
“Working in Poverty.” ‘The articles
highlight various problems facing
low-income workers and were
published in The Virginia Gazette,
where she was an education and
government reporter for two years.
She teaches in the Colorado
Springs, Colo., public schools,
where her Tiance. Kiar 7
Gingerelli ’98, also resides.

Mary R. Hemmer
is a master’s of divinity student at
Duke University.

Margaret A. Hoehl

finished law school and is now
working for the Pittsburgh office of
Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue.

Martha M. Kieckhefer
participated in a two-week mission
trip to Bolivia with a group of vet-
erinarians and students from the
University of Florida. They trav-
eled in rural eastern Bolivia provid-
ing veterinary care for the people’s
livestock and teaching them about
Christianity. She lives in
Gainesville, Fla.

Matthew W. Ritter

received his law degree from
Widener University School of Law
at Wilmington, Del. He will begin
a one-year judicial clerkship to the
New Jersey Superior Court with
Judge George H. Stanger Jr., fol-
lowing his completion of the New
Jersey Bar examination.

Scott M. Zimmerly

is happy to have landed a job just
outside of Baltimore. He_ has
moved into the private equity and
venture capital business and looks
forward to joining the Baltimore
W&L Alumni Chapter.

Comes 2 2000 caps
Robert R. Baldwin Jr.
completed his master’s of science
degree in electric power engineer-
ing at Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute. He is currently on a one-
year assignment in Germany with
Piller Inc.’s parent company.

Crady C. Frank Ill

works for a local Charlotte, N.C.,
bank. He has also been moonlight-
ing as a hair model for HairClips
Salon. An avid runner and weight
lifter, he is always game for local
road races and bench-press con-
tests.

William A. Kanner

is a research assistant in the cardi-
ology department at Emory
University. His research area is
electrochemical detection of nitric
oxide. He will begin medical
school next year.

Ensign Crant H. Langston
completed his first solo flight. He is
undergoing primary flight training
with Helicopter ‘Training Squadron
Eight, Naval Air Station Whiting
Field, in Milton, Fla. ‘The basic
course included 65 flight training
hours and the initial steps of the
Navy Integrated Flight ‘Training
System. Langston’s follow-on train-
ing with jets, helicopters or multi-
engine aircraft will lead to designa-
tion as a naval aviator.

MARRIAGES

Alan W. Nash '69 (’73L)

to Debbie French on April 27 1n an
outdoor ceremony at Locust Grove
in Montgomery County, Md. H.
Watkins Ellerson III °73L. was a
groomsman. Other law classmates
attending were Judge Jesse
Crumbley, Judge Robert
Giammittorio, Al Hulten, and their
wives, Laura Crumbley, Kathleen
Giammittorio and Hilary Hulten,
Michael Campilongo and Judge
John P. Miller. ‘The couple live in
Fairfax, Va.

J. Lee Crable Jr. "90 to Christine
Schiller on May 4 in Houston.
Members of the wedding party
included classmates Maury Purnell,
Kevin Allen, Rick Silva, Chris
Smythe, Paul Williamson, Scott
McArron and John ‘Touchton. ‘The
couple live in Austin.

Dr. C. Elizabeth Stutzmann '90
to Manuel Montez on Oct. 6, 2001,
at the Clinton Winery in Clinton
Corners, N.Y. ‘The couple reside in

a a NS ee ee ee a

 

 

London Capital Campai gn Kicko i

 

Victoria Morris (left), Paul Davey ’86 and John Jensen 01 at the
London Capital Campaign kickoff, hosted by John Farmer 61 at

the European headquarters of Goldman, Sachs on Fleet Street.

Irvine, Calif., where her neuro-
science research on Alzheimer’s
Disease is making progress.

Susan Lorimer Reil 91 to Joseph
James Bria III on May 26, 2001, in
Boynton Beach, Fla. ‘The couple
reside in San Diego, where she is
president of the San Diego Alumni
Chapter.

Louise Curkin Adamson '92 to
Stuart Hargrove Moore on May 4
at Stephen’s Episcopal Church in
Richmond, where the couple now
reside.

Stephanie Sauers "93 to ‘Tony
McCaffrey on Dec. 29, 2001, in St.
Petersburg, Fla. Nancy Hickam
Halloran ’90 was a bridesmaid and
attended with her husband, ‘Tim
Halloran ’91. She is a Catholic
campus minister at Assumption
College in Worcester, Mass., and
he is a children’s book author.

R. Mason Smith 93 to William
Custard III June 15 in Roanoke.
‘They live in New York City.

Dr. Rachel Zloczover '94 to
Robert Jones Jr. on April 13 in
Delray Beach, Fla. She has fin-
ished her residency in obstetrics
and gynecology and joined a pri-
vate practice in Wilmington, N.C.

Wendy B. Alexander '95 to
Kennon W. Hines on April 4 in
Nevis, West Indies. ‘The couple
live in Atlanta, where she works for
a small consulting company and
tutors middle school children part
time.

Andrew D. Dutton '95 to Bartley
Mitchell in Washington in August
2001. ‘The couple reside in
Denver, Colo., where Dutton
works for Generation Capital as a
securities analyst for a hedge fund
by the name of Westcliffe
Opportunity Fund.

Leslie Ratz "95 to Brandon
Easterling on Feb. 9 in Houston.
Bridesmaids included classmates
Elizabeth Holleman Brown, Frost
Bush, Dana. Cornell. Mac-
Naughton, Mary Muehlberg and
Kait Barton Paden. The couple
reside in Austin.

John L. Turner V 95 to Kimberly
Leigh Fisher on April 21 in
Charlottesville, Va. ‘Turner finished
his graduate work in economics at
the University of Virginia and the
couple have moved to Athens, Ga.,
where he has taken a position as an
assistant professor of economics at
the University of Georgia.

Mariecken Verspoor '95 to
Jeffrey Fowler on May 26, 2001, in
Lee Chapel. Ashlie Kaufman °95
was a bridesmaid. In attendance
were Katharine Adams 795,
Annemarie Paulin ’95 and Ashley
Matthews Shilling ’96, as well as
Patrick Hinley °73. ‘The couple
reside in Jacksonville, Fla., where
she is doing her residency in neu-
rology at the Mayo Clinic and her
husband is teaching English at the
Bolles School.

 

 

Wathisneatias

a MM d

Coe A hb UM

MA GAZ

I

Ne £

 

Thomas L. Bradbury Jr. '96 to
Julie Mayo '97 on May 19 in New
Canaan, Conn. Members of the
wedding party included Butler
Ball °96, Ryan Connolly 796,
Ransom James ’96, Cole VanNice
96, Brooks Fischer ’97, Lauren
Guthrie ’97, Suzanne McGettigan
97, Laura Perry 97, Susie Prevost
97 and Erika Snyder ’97. The cou-
ple reside in Nashville, Tenn.

Nicholas C. Polizzi '96 to
Whitney McClintock on Aug. 11,
2001, in Nashville, Tenn. The
wedding was attended by class-
mates Stephen Inman, Richard
Weaver, Charlie Santo, Phil Carrot,
Andrew Olmem, Richard
‘Talmadge, Kirk Susong, Courtney
Miller Santo ’98, Andrew Fullam
98 and Sam Jones °95. The couple
live in Fairfax, Va.

Benjamin R.S. Vanderver '96 to
Megan Hovda '97 on June 25 in
Lee Chapel. The couple live in
Atlanta.

T. Gaillard Uhihorn V '97 to
Kathy Gale Estes on Oct. 27, 2001,
in Memphis, ‘Tenn. Uhlhorn prac-
tices law at Glankler Brown
PL.L.C,, and his wife practices law
at Wyatt, ‘Tarrant & Combs. They
reside in Memphis, Tenn.

Catherine Haddock '98 to David
Bolt on April 13 in Anderson, S.C.,
where the couple have purchased a
house. Erika Van Heldon Jennings
96 and Sunda Wells 98 were mem-
bers of the wedding party.

Emily Frampton 98 to J. Stewart
Harvey Jr. on June 22 in Paducah,
Ky. ‘They live in Lexington.

Suzanne Scott 99 to Stephen L.
Baker on April 20 in Ellicott City,
Md. Bridget Quealy ’98 was the
maid of honor and Jessica Simpson
99 was a bridesmaid. ‘The couple
reside in Columbia, Md.

John F. Duncan ‘OI to Natisha
Lavender on June 21 in
Bloomington, Ind. Duncan is pur-
suing a master’s degree from the
University of Indiana in computer
science with a certificate in artifi-
cial intelligence. He has also con-
tinued his study of Japanese.

Elizabeth Doerries 'OI to Scott
Meister Il OF on July 6 in
Houston. ‘They live in Reston, Va.

BIRTHS

Dr. and Mrs. Edward S. Yastrow
‘82, a son, Robert Joseph, on Jan.
8. He joins siblings Alex, Maggie,
and Jackie. Yartrow says that
makes four and no more. The fam-
ily reside in Deerfield, Ill.

Mr. and Mrs. David C. Short '84,
a daughter, Jennifer Cameron, on
June 27, 2001. She joins sisters
Abigail and Shannon. The family
reside in Windermere, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Ziebert’84, a
son, Nicholas, on Dec. 16, 2001.
The family live in Elmhurst, IIL.

 

‘The official Washington and Lee class ring is a beautiful yellow or

white gold ring depicting the W&L crest. The new design was

introduced last year and it is now the only ring licensed by the

University. For more information, or to place an order, please con-
tact the alumni office at (540) 458-8464.

PAs Wie 6 ee ee ee ee eee

 

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Fitzgerald
11’85, a daughter, Dora Gallimore, on
Nov. 13, 2001. She joins twin broth-
ers Charles and William, 3. The fam-
ily reside in Newport News, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Miller
‘85 ('94L), a daughter, Catherine
Reed, on March 31. She joins
brother Walker, 2. Miller has
become a shareholder in the law
firm of Fisher Tousey Leas & Ball
in Jacksonville, Fla.

Dr. and Mrs. William R. Sanderson
‘85, a daughter, Ann Marie, on Jan. 3.
She joins sister Claire Elizabeth, 3.
‘They live in Mobile, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L. Barnes Jr.
‘86, a son, Edwin L. IIL, on Dec. 9,
2001. Barnes is an attorney with
Kennedy, Covington, Lobdell &
Hickman L.L.P. in Charlotte, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Barker Ill
‘87, a daughter, Eliza Kristine, on
Feb. 19. She joins a sister, Vivian,
2. Barker practices communica-
tions and administrative law as a
partner with Latham & Watkins in
Washington. ‘The family reside in
Alexandria, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Codfrey Jr.
'87, ason, Christopher Knox, on June
27, 2001. He joins _ brothers
Walker, 5, and Jay, 3. The family
reside in Richmond.

Dr. and Mrs. Mark H. Whiteford
‘87, a son, Alder Johns, on Sept. 25.
He joins sister Savannah, 3.’The fam-
ily reside in Portland, Ore.

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew N. Hart’88, a
daughter, Sarah Peyton, on June
24, 2001. Hart resigned his position
at Eli Lilly Co. to assume the posi-
tion of headmaster of Oaks
Academy, a private, K-8, inner-city
school in Indianapolis.

Mr. and Mrs. Bradley B. Root’88, a
son, Devon Elliott, on May 13. He
joins siblings Madison, 7, Tucker, 4,
and Bradley, 20 months. ‘The family
reside in Pittsburgh.

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Williams 88,
a daughter, Julia Fraley, on June 15.
She joins brother Jake. They live in
Birmingham, Ala.

Eleanor Nelson Barnes '89 and
her husband, Jack, a daughter,
Caroline Conway, on March 3,
2001. She joins brother Marshall, 4.
The family reside in West
Hartford, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. J. David Emrich
‘89, a son, Samuel David, on May
15. ‘The family reside in Indian
Trail, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Hudson
‘89, a daughter, ‘Taylor Joan, on June
10. She joins brother Christopher,
‘They live in Fairview, Pa.

Erin Cosby Plumb ’89 and her
husband, Marion, a daughter, Grace
Parker, on March 16. The family
reside in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Reavy ’89, 4
son, Quinn Pannell, on May 10. The
family reside in Charlotte, N.C.

Dr. Courtney Harpold Struthers
"89 and Kevin Struthers '89, a
son, George Campbell on June 15.
‘The family live in Shepherdstown,
W.Va.

Mr. and Mrs. David I. Symonds
‘89, a son, Ian Alexander, on June
2. The family reside in Boston,
Mass.

Beckwith Archer Cooper '90
(‘93L) and Derick Cooper '94, a
daughter, Raleigh Caroline, March
26. She joins sisters Preston and

Carter. The family live in Vero
Beach, Fla.

Cenienne Mongno Hocken-
smith "90 ('94L) and C. Jeremy
Hockensmith '94L. a son, Hunter
Duke, on June 3. The family
reside in Keene, N.H.

Deborah Crove Love '90 and
Craig D. Love ’89, a son, Thomas
Mercer, on March 3. The family
live in Winchester, Va.

Denise Y. Lunsford '90 and her
husband, Richard J. Brewer, a
daughter, Adelai Irie, on January
18. She joins brother Richard
“Trip,” 2. The family reside in
Charlottesville, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven A. Mueller
"90, a daughter, Mary Katherine,
on January 16, 2001. The family
reside in Alpharetta, Ga., where
Mueller is employed by IBM.

Edward A. Hart 91 and his wife,
Melinda Conkling Hart ’9I, a son,
John Maxey, on May 10. The fam-
ily reside in Dallas.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Kranich
Hl "91, twin daughters, Alexandra
Helene and Caroline Elizabeth, on
April 1. ‘The family reside in State
College, Pa.

 

Me @ sth in. ¢ io.

a d

Lee MM SA ou MeN: t Ms AG A723

Jean Stroman Warren 9! and R.
Bland Warren '90, a daughter,
Evelyn Eaton, on May 20. They
live in Huntsville, Ala.

mr. and Mrs. John A. Broaddus
ii! ‘92, twin daughters, Margaret
Tennant and Anna Charlotte, on
March 7. The family reside in

Baltimore.

Wendy Merrick Doak ’92 and her
husband, Brian, a daughter, Acey,
on Sept. 21, 2001. She joins broth-
er Connor, 3. The family reside in
Baltimore.

Mr. and Mrs. F. Trent Merchant
‘92, a daughter, Maya Sunshine,
on May 14. The family reside in
Marietta, Ga.

Kathryn Seeman Moll '92 and
her husband, Brian, a son, Charles
Scott, on June 29, 2001. He joins
sister Isabel, 3. “he family reside
in Fairport, N.Y.

Holly Buffington Stevens '92 and
her husband, Bob, a son, Robert
Andrew, Jan. 11. She accepted a
position as a federal prosecutor
with the U.S. Department of
Justice, antitrust division, in the
Atlanta field office. Her husband is
an attorney, practicing labor and
employment law with ‘Iroutman
Sanders L.L.P.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas E. Lamb
"93, a son, Thomas Nelson Peters,

on April 15. ‘The family reside in
Richmond.

Kimberly Marcott Weinberg '93
and her husband, Richard, a
daughter, Madeline Schuyler. ‘The
family live in Bradford, Pa., where
she is the city editor for the

Bradford Era.

Elizabeth H. Wozencraft '93 and
her husband, Frank, a daughter,
Julia Nalle, on Oct. 25. She joins
brother Cooper, 3. ‘The family
reside in Houston.

Wendy Neel Bacdayan '94 and
Wangdali Bacdayan ’92, a son,
Benjamin Paul, on June 29. After
serving as chief pediatric resident,
she has joined a private practice in
Pittsburgh. He is a general partner
of PNC Equity Partners L.P,
where he focuses on equity invest-
ments in the healthcare and busi-
ness services industry.

Stephanie Harbaugh Craby’94
and her husband, Craig, a son,
Evan Ashton, on June 6. The fam-
ily live in Herndon, Va.

Cregory B. Patterson '94 and
Sarah Wyatt Patterson '94, a
daughter, Wyatt Elizabeth, on
Aug. 14, 2001. ‘The family live in
Dover, Del.

Lee A. Wright 94 and Stephanie
Brown Wright '94, a son, Wyatt
Lee, on Jan. 28. ‘The family live in
New York City.

Fame See? bee ee, Cee eee Bas ee, ee

 

William L. Propst '95 and
Abigail Kane Propst '94, a son,
Loftin Alan, on Dec. 17, 2001. The
family reside in Atlanta.

Phaedra C. Beckwith 96 and her
husband, Edward, a son, Philip
Edward, on June 3. ‘The family
reside in Groton, Conn.

Margaret Carrere Carter ’96 and
her husband, Devon, a daughter,
Elizabeth Lykes, on April 29. The
family reside in Charleston, S.C.

Jennifer Beam Dowd 96 and her
husband, Daniel, a son, Alexander
Daniel, on Feb. 21. ‘The family
reside in Princeton, N.J., where
she 1s working toward her doctor-
ate in economic development.

Deborah Munson Ealer ’96 and
her husband, Jeff, a daughter,
Jennifer Munson, on May 1. She
joins sister Christin, 2. They live in
Devon, Pa.

Laura Howell Haakenson '96
and her husband, Mare, a son,
Hunter Howell, on March 11. The
family reside in Raleigh, N.C.

Julie Ayers Mcleod '96 and her
husband, Ryan, a son, ‘Tyler
Kennedy, on March 19. ‘The fami-
ly reside in Parrish, Fla.

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick D.
McKenna ’96, a daughter, Chloe
Andersen, on ..Oct...7,. 2001.

Weddings and More at alumni.wlu.edu

 

Gathering for a photo at the April wedding of Reid Hipp were (left to right): Bob Doenges ’62,
Margaret Boyd 91, Bill Boyd ’62, Mary Hipp 90, Hayne Hipp ’62, John Penn Lee ’62, John Farmer
61, John Gulick °63, Charlie Commander 62 and Dave Knight ’62.

Visit the Class Notes section of the new Alumni Association Web site to catch up on the latest

news from your classmates. Alumni can now submit class notes and accompanying photographs

Online. We welcome news of weddings, births and other announcements. Notes and photographs

will be posted on the site within 24-48 hours.

McKenna is president of American
Consumer Counseling, an organi-
zation geared to help individuals
with consumer debt. He is also a
board member and founding part-
ner of Advanced Financial Debt
Services, a financial company that
manages individuals’ non-secured
debt. The family reside in
Newport Beach, Calif.

David M. Lamoureux '97 and
Michelle Althoff Lamoureux '97, a
daughter, Claire Marie, on April 16.
‘The family reside in Newnan, Ga.

OBITUARIES

 

Asa M. Janney '29,

former postmaster, died June 11 in
Lincoln, Va. He served as the
unofficial mayor of Loudoun
County and was a member of the
Goose Creek Quaker Meeting
House.

Sollace M. Freeman '32,
retired administrative officer at
Sewanee, died Oct. 11, 1999, in
Jacksonville, Fla. He was a member
of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Col. Harry E. Trail '30,
died March 9 in Montgomery, Ala.
He was a member of Sigma Nu
social fraternity.

John C. Harris '32,

retired wholesale grocer, died Dec.
19, 2001, in Scottsboro, Ala. He
was a member of the W&L band
and the swim team. After retire-
ment, Harris won an Alabama state
championship in the over 80 age
swim class of the Senior Olympics.

Jack M. Matthews '32L,
former attorney, died July 25 in
Galax, Va. He served as Circuit
Court Judge in the 21st Judicial
Circuit for three terms.

Russell W. Brothers ’33,
retired business man, died March
11, 2001, in Nashville, “Tenn. He
was a member and a lifetime dea-
con at the First Baptist Church.

William C. Kimbrell '33,
retired chairman and president of
Kimbrell’s Inc., died July 20, 2001,
in St. Augustine, Fa.

Ceorge M. Spaulding '34,

retired chairman and director of
the Spaulding Lumber Co., died
April 5 in Chase City, Va. He also
served as director of Central
Fidelity Bank. He was a vestryman

 

 

ec .

IMs Ae GOA AZ

I

Eee

 

in St. John’s Episcopal Church and
a leader in the Patrick Henry Boys
and Girls Plantation. While at
W&L, Spaulding was a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity
and was later inducted as an hon-
orary member of Omicron Delta
Kappa.

William P. Diggs Jr '35,

former special agent in the FBI,
died July 3 in Sun City, Ariz. He
served in the U.S. Navy during
World War I and was discharged
with the rank of lieutenant com-
mander. He belonged to Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Dr. Morton A. Brown '37,
retired professor of History at East
‘Tennessee State University, died
March 27 in Johnson City, Tenn.
Brown was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, the
University Glee Club and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Ceorge T. Hall '37,

former owner of Arco Auto
Carriers, Inc., died July 14 in
Glenview, Ill. He was a World War
Il veteran. While at W&L, Hall
was a member of Delta Upsilon
social fraternity.

The Rev. William P. Neal '37,
retired pastor at ‘[rinity Church,
died May 9 in Chambersburg, Pa.
He served as president of the
board of directors of Occupational
Services Inc. .

Thomas B. Skinner ‘37,
former buyer and supervisor with
the Universal Leaf Tobacco Co.,
died June 12 in Rocky Mount,
N.C. He was a U.S. Army Air Corp
veteran of World War II and earned
the rank of First Lieutenant. He
was a member of Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

The Hon. Philip R. Brooks '39,
retired U.S. Army captain and sales
executive with Lone Star Cement,
died April 13 in Virginia Beach. He
was a veteran of World War II.
Brooks was a member of Beta
‘Theta Pi social fraternity.

Thomas W. Christopher '39,
former associate dean at Emory
Law School, died March 22 in
Greenville, S.C. He also served as
dean at the University of North
Carolina, the University of New
Mexico and the University of
Alabama. He was a member of the
National Advisory Food and Drug
Council and vice president of the

Washiain g ton

Food and Drug Law Foundation.
While at W&L, Christopher was a
member of the Graham-Lee-
Washington Literary Society and
the debate team.

Herbert C. Sigvartsen '39,
retired banker and founder of the
Republic Bank, died May 27 in
Clearwater, Fla. He was a US.
Navy veteran of World War II and
was a member of the the Sons of
Norway and the Military Order of
‘The World Wars.

Crover C. Baldwin Jr’40,'47L,
former attorney, died June 10 in
Paris, Ky. He served in the Army Air
Corps during World War IL. Baldwin
was a member of the Bourbon
County and Kentucky Bar Associ-
ations While at W&L, he was a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
the Student Executive Committee,
the Interfraternity Council, Phi
Delta Phi, Phi Alpha Nu, the
Cotillion Club and Phi Gamma
Delta social fraternity.

Lawrence E. Carson '40,
former Union Carbide employee,
died July 13 in Charleston, W.Va.
He served in the Field Artillery
Division during World War II.
Carson was a member of Calvary
Episcopal Church, where he was a
member of the vestry and a trustee.
While at W&L, he was a member
of the White Friars, the Cah, The
Ring-Tum Phi and Lambda Chi
Alpha social fraternity.

Howard A. Payne Jr '40,
former executive vice president of
First National Bank of Bassett,
died July 7 in Durham, N.C. He
served in the Arkansas National
Guard during World War II. Payne
was a member of the Phi Delta
‘Theta social fraternity.

David C. Burks ’4I,

former industrial chemist, died
July 27 in Fredericksburg, Va. He
was a member of the Fredericks-
burg United Methodist Church.
While at W&L, Burks was a mem-
ber of the Calyx, The Ring-tum
Phi, ‘Yau Kappa Tota and Kappa
Sigma social fraternity.

Donald J. Godehn ’4I,

retired chief technical advisor for
Akzona Chemical Co., died April
26 in Hendersonville, N.C. He was
a founder of the Henderson
County YMCA and a founding
board member of the Pardee
Hospital Foundation. While at
W&L, Godehn was a member of

 

Robert R. Goodwin II '62

 

Robert R. Coodwin Il '62, retired vice president of Merrill
Lynch and Co., died May 21 in Evans, Ga.

Goodwin majored in journalism and, while a student, played
the piano with a small group of his classmates. Later on, he taught
himself to play the organ, mostly for his church and his own plea-

sure.

On a visit to campus in 1992 for Reunion Weekend, Goodwin
discovered that the 1872 Henry Erven Organ in Lee Chapel need-
ed extensive restoration, and so he donated funds to bring it back
to working order. He also created a scholarship for keyboard stud-

ies or journalism.

Goodwin served in the Army and reached the rank of captain
before being discharged. While at W&L, he was a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa, The Ring-tum Phi, Sigma Delta Chi, the
Sigma Society, the Scabbard & Blade, the Cotillion Club, the
Interfraternity Council and the University Publications Board. He
also served as president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

the Interfraternity Council, Pi
Alpha Nu and Sigma Nu social fra-
ternity.

William E. W. Suitt '41,
retired advertising executive, died
April 9 in Boston.

Robert W. Root '42,

retired from the Department of
Defense, died May 1 in Silver
Springs, Md. He was a member of
the outdoor track team, the
University Glee Club and Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Albert C. Rhea III '43, '47L,
former legislative attorney for the
Pentagon, died April 11. in
Nashville, ‘Tenn. He was a World
War II veteran. While at W&L, he
was a member of the Interfraterni-
ty Council and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity.

William F. Noll Jr '44,

died May 29 in Essex, N.J. He was
a member of the University Glee
Club and Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity.

Dr. William P. Peak '44,
retired physician, died Feb. 6 in
New Albany, Ind. He served as a
second lieutenant with the First
Marine Division during World War
Il. He helped co-found and run
The Arthritis Clinic for the
University of Louisville Medical
School. Peak was a member of the
White Friars and Pi Kappa Alpha
social fraternity.

David T. Snell '44,
died May 12, 1999, in Lancaster, Pa.

Harry F. Brown Jr '45,

died April 30, 1999 in Allegheny,
Pa. He was a member of the
University Glee Club, Pi Alpha
Nu, the basketball team and Delta
‘Tau Delta social fraternity.

Charles A. Herndon '46,

former WBAL-T'V weatherman,
died July 9 in Baltimore. He was a
member of the University Glee
Club and Sigma Nu social fraternity.

Frederick R. Landrigan '46,
died Feb. 19 in Middlesex, N.J.

 

ee d

Lee ME Atv Mew t

IM: Ae tS A eZ 2

Be

 

He was a member of Pi Kappa Phi
social fraternity.

Lawrence W. Anderson ‘49,
retired manager of Gurney
Brothers Jewelers, died May 11 in
Leominster, Mass. He was an
Army Air Force veteran of World
War II.

Col. John C. Carmichael '50,
retired lieutenant colonel in the
U.S. Air Force, died May 9 in
Bowling Green, Ky. He was a
member of Phi Delta ‘Theta social
fraternity.

Alfred P. Neff '5I,

former owner and president of
Cooke & Neff, Inc., died in
Norfolk, Va. He was a Navy veteran
of World War I. He was a member
of the Norfolk German Club and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Davis B. Wyatt '5I,
retired ophthalmologist,
March 25 in Richmond.

died

Orest Neimanis '52,

died June 29 in Greenwich, Conn.
He was a member of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity.

Dr. John W. Willcoxon III ’52,
professor emeritus at the Univ-
ersity of Northern Colorado, died
June 30 in Greeley, Colo. He was a
member of Phi Eta Sigma.

Willis M. Anderson '52L,
former general counsel for
Shenandoah Life Insurance Com-
pany, died April 23 in Roanoke. He
served in the U.S. Army JAG
Corps. He was the youngest mayor
in Roanoke’s history and served in
the Virginia House of Delegates
from 1963-1972. He was an orga-
nizing director of Mill Mountain
‘Theatre and a board member of
every organization in Center in the
Square. While at W&L, he was a
member of the W&L Law Review,
Phi Alpha Delta, the Mock Con
Steering Committee and Sigma
Chi social fraternity.

Harvey A. Dodd ‘53,

former business editor of The
Union Leader, died April 14,
Manchester, N.H. He was a mem-
ber of Sigma Delta Chi and
Shenandoah.

Herbert S. Falk Jr. '53,

former attorney with ‘Turner,
Enochs & Lloyd, died July 20 in
Greensboro, N.C. He was a past
president of the Greensboro Bar

Association and a past chair of the
Executive Committee of the
Council of North Carolina Bar
Presidents. While at W&L, he was
a member of Zeta Beta ‘Tau social
fraternity.

Dr. Theron R. Rolston Jr '53,
retired physician, died Feb. 22 in
Wheeling, W.Va.

Jack O. Smith '54,

retired insurance agent, died June
1 in Reynoldsburg, Ohio. He was a
member of Beta ‘Theta Pi social
fraternity.

Cyrus J. Barton Jr ’55,
retired president of Quality Press
Inc., died April 12, 2001, in
Charleston, W.Va. He was a member
of Phi Kappa Psi social fraternity.

Neil McBrien '55,

former attorney, died April 21 in
Staten Island, N.Y. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Gamma Delta social fra-
ternity.

Brian H. Shanley 55,
retired senior social worker, died
May 28 in Lodi, Calif. He was a
member of Beta ‘Theta Pi social
fraternity.

William E. Boggiano Jr. '56,
retired publisher, died March 22,
2000, in New York. He was a mem-
ber of Sigma Delta. Chi,
Shenandoah, The Ring-tum Phi,
Concert Guild and Delta Upsilon
social fraternity.

Dale L. Carter '58,

former employee of Hilti Inc., died
in ‘lulsa, Okla. He was a member
of the swim team, the tennis team
and Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Arthur B. Seeger Jr '58,
died August 15, 1994, in Montgom-
ery, Pa. He was a member of Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity.

Dr. Linville C. Halloran 60,
former surgeon, died April 1 in
Richmond. He was instrumental
in the discovery of HDL, better
known as “good cholesterol.”
Halloran was a member of Sigma
Chi social fraternity.

Jon C. Peterson '6l,

former president of Peterson
Broadcasting, died June 11 in
Richmond. He was a member of the
cross country team, the White Friars,
the Interfraternity Council and Phi
Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

A LU MN It N EwW S

 

Robert M. Briede ’63,
former partner with Briede &
Spoerl, died March 8. He was a
member of Psi Chi and Pi Kappa
Phi social fraternity.

Duncan LaMonte 'G7,
retired financial futures trader,
died July 24 in Harding, N.J. He
was an Army lieutenant during the
Vietnam War. While at W&L,
LaMonte was a member of the
lacrosse team, the wrestling team,
Sigma Society and Beta Theta Pi
social fraternity.

Dr. James C. Burke ’69,

former orthopedic surgeon, died
June 10 in Durham, N.C. He was a
member of the American Cancer
Society, the American Diabetes
Association, the American
Academy of orthopedic Surgeons
and the North Carolina Medical
Association. While at W&L, Burke
was a member of Alpha Epsilon
Delta, Psi Chi, Phi Eta Sigma, the
Calyx, the College Democrats,
Alpha Phi Omega and Beta Theta
Pi social fraternity.

Lawson H. Marshall '72,
former president of Skyline
Publications, died April 19 in
Bridgewater, Va. He was a member
of the football team and Sigma Chi
social fraternity.

Robert S. Lang ’'73,
former land surveyor, died August

27, 2000, in Glen Allen, Va.

Stuart R. Arnold ’79L,
former attorney with Dinsmore &
Shohl, died July 5 in Cincinnati.
He was an editor of the Law
Review.

J. Alan Creeter '89,

former vice president of the
Greeter Building Center, died May
8 in Monteagle, ‘Tenn. He was a
member of the Rugby team and
Phi Delta ‘Theta social fraternity.

Claudia A. Kirschhoch '93,
former editor of Frommer’s 77ave/
Guides, died May 27, 2000.

M. Curtis Bethea Jr '02,
of New Orleans, died March 26. He
was a member of the golf team and
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

AST Peo ON AND LEE

 

Armchairs and Rockers

The chairs are made of solid hardrock maple in black lacquer
finish with cherry arms. The five-color crest of the University is
painted on the back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for birthdays,
graduation, Christmas, anniversaries or weddings. All profit from
sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham ’14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by call-
ing (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L Alumni
Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to: Washington and
Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450-0303.

[|] BOSTON ROCKER (Black lacquer $310)
[J ARMCHAIR (Black lacquer with cherry arms $310)

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

CITY/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

METHOD OF PAYMENT [] VISA [J] MASTERCARD [] CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

Lhe Boston Rocker requires some assembly. Make check payable to WL Alumni
Office. Prices include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

Washington

and

—— eS

MSA G A 72 Ne

Cherished Friend and Mentor

W&L Says Goodbye

James M. Ballengee ‘'48L

James McMurrow Ballengee ’48L, a former rector of Washington and
Lee University and counsel for Morgan, Lewis & Bokius L.L.P., died
July 28 in Philadelphia. He was a prominent Philadelphia attorney and
a retired chairman of Pennsylvania’s Enterra Corp.

In his eulogy, former W&L President John Wilson (1983-1995)
said, “Jim Ballengee truly loved W&L. He loved the history of the
place, the stately, dignified archi-
tecture, the worn stepping stones
along the Colonnade, creased by
200 years of hastening students
nearly late for class. And he loved
the traditions of the University,
especially the Honor System and
its direct tracing back to the
influence of Robert E. Lee; the
commitment to serious teaching;
the memory of great men who
came before him in the Rector’s
chair. He cherished the legacy
and strove mightily and with
extraordinary generosity to maintain it and to see it passed safely to the
next generation.”

Ballengee was a member of W&Ls Board of ‘Irustees from 1978
to 1990, including nine years leading the board as rector. During his
board tenure, Ballengee played a key role in W&Ls decision to
become coeducational. While the Law School admitted women in
1972, the issue was more divisive at the undergraduate level. ‘The
College admitted women in 1985. His leadership, forthrightness and
skill in resolving alumni concerns were critical, said Wilson.

Ballengee also spearheaded the University’s 250th anniversary
celebration in 1999, endowing the Jo and James Ballengee 250th
Anniversary Professorship. W. Lad Sessions, professor of philosophy
who currently holds the chair, said, “Jim’s leadership and intellectual
skills, as well as his dedication to benefaction, only grew over the years.
He lived an exemplary life, and we could all do well to emulate his
example.”

Many have said that Ballengee was that rare individual who felt
just as comfortable talking with faculty members about their research
as he did talking to the football coach about his team. He was a
Renaissance man in the truest sense of the word. Provost Laurent
Boetsch 69 recalls: “Jim Ballengee had always just read the book that
you were about to read. I’m not sure just how he did this but it was
almost impossible to recommend to him something that he hadn’t
already read, digested or rejected. His reading was both voracious and

eclectic and set the best possible example of someone who was always

yee eS ee ee ee, ee ee

 

 

open to new ideas. Most faculty members who had the privilege of
teaching Jim during one of his many Alumni College courses invari-
ably ended up being his students by the end of the week.”

Ballengee’s leadership abilities took root in his W&L Law
School days, where he graduated first in his class, was editor of the
Law Review and was elected to the Order of the Coif, the legal hon-
orary society. He was a member of Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity
and Omicron Delta Kappa, the national service fraternity founded at
Washington and Lee in 1914. He was a graduate of Morris Harvey
College, where he earned Phi Beta Kappa.

Philadelphia philanthropist Gerry Lenfest ’53, 55L, who served
with Ballengee on W& Ls board and followed him onto the board of
the Philadelphia Museum of Art, said, “I have never met anyone who
has given more of his time and energy to worthwhile causes than Jim
Ballengee. He was a kind and caring person, a good friend to many
and will be sorely missed.”

Ballengee’s career spanned both law and business. He was chair-
man and chief executive officer of Enterra Corp., an oil service con-
glomerate in Radnor, Pa., from 1981 to 1986. He joined Enterra after
25 years as a partner in the Philadelphia legal firm of Morgan, Lewis
& Bockius, which he rejoined in 1986 as senior counsel. He previ-
ously served with the Philadelphia Suburban Water Company and
with Sears, where he was an associate general attorney and assistant
corporate secretary. Ballengee was a member of the American Bar
Association and the Pennsylvania and West Virginia Bar Associations.

Ballengee, a native of Charleston, W.Va., was a longtime activist
in Philadelphia’s civic and cultural affairs, serving as director and
chairman of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce; former
director of the Greater Philadelphia Partnership; president of the
Metropolitan Board of the YMCA; trustee of the Philadelphia
Museum of Art; vice president and treasurer of the Devon Horse
Show and Country Fair, as well as president of the Devon Horse
Show Foundation; chairman of the Bryn Mawr Hospital; chairman of
the Arthritis Foundation; and trustee of the George C. Marshall
Foundation. He also served in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946 and
again in 1948, fighting in the Korean War. 4

IN 1984, BALLENGEE AND PRESIDENT JOHN WILSON
FIELDED QUESTIONS FROM THE PRESS ON
W&L’S DECISION TO GO COED.

 

 

 

ee
AT SAG wt aw Ge TOON ee tee TMV eee Y

ACADEMIC PROGRAM—$119,650,000 Rise to the Challenge

  

      

Undergraduate: $ 18,750,000 Four alumni leaders, long-known for
| their generosity, are making a difference in
Washington and Lee’s future. ‘They have
issued a $12.5 million challenge to all alumni.
Committed to the University’s goal of
educating tomorrow’s leaders of the nation and
Undergraduate: : $ 60,275,000 the world, this quartet of quiet benefactors

acknowledges this time of economic uncer-

 

tainty by confidently asking all others of the
W&L family to make a difference now.
Every member of the Board of ‘Itustees
already has revisited his or her own Cam-
paign gift, resulting in an additional $1.4 mil-
lion in pledges. This brings W&L’s Campaign
total to $205 million as of Nov. 1. W&L is
poised to meet, and even exceed, its goal of
smo — $225 million. But this will happen only if the
;RAM—$85,350,00 challenge is met within the next 14 months.
The intent of the challenge 1s to
encourage supporters to stretch beyond
annual giving, to share their commitment to
achieve the capital purposes of the Cam-
4,000,000 paign. Funding the Strategic Initiatives will
improve the Law School’s and the College’s
endowments and physical plants. Gifts to
the Annual Fund, which augment the
operational budget, do not qualify in terms of
this $12.5 million challenge, although they
do count in overall Campaign totals.

$ 24,000,000

In the University’s unique history of
philanthropy, the opportunity to write one

  

¢ 10.300.000 of its most inspiring chapters is now.

[f not us, who?
If not now, when?

NNUAL FUND PRC ny ‘U MILLION

 

updates or to make a difference, please go to

. &

 

The Washington and Lee University
ALOU MN 1: ALAC AZIAS

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24440

www.wlu.edu

NON PROFIT ORG,
U.S. POSTAGS
, A I D
PERMIT NO. 508

NORFOLK, Wa

 

When construction crews stripped the top layers from a patch
of land behind Liberty Hall Ruins to use as fill in other building
projects, biology professors Larry Hurd, John Knox and Bill
Hamilton saw a golden opportunity to test several hypothesis con-
cerning biodiversity, arthropod succession in restored habitats and
an ecosystem’s ability to adapt to environmental stress.

With a motto of “waste not, want not,” the biologists used

materials close at hand for their project. ‘To reintroduce organic

matter into the barren soil, they asked physical plant to dump
leaves collected from campus lawns, which were tilled into the 66
research plots measuring 3m x 3m. ‘The research teams then
sowed 9,000 seeds of native plant species at three levels of diver-
sity. Gravel from Law School roof renovations became the ground
cover that controlled weeds and created walkways among the plots.

Visit http://biology.wlu.edu/hamilton/Sciencepark/

to learn more about W&Ls ecological research park.

 

Science Web sites of interest: journalofscience.wlu.edu features student summer research proyects

alsos.wlu.edu zs a digital library containing information related to nuclear energy

hab oSeGeO0eR Our Bato ore

PaRaO'

AiciS io SivTnis Seth edico Nieto

fli Ags Mig Te oT Oval,

Bills

Boa.

PO. 7 Oe

