LEE UNIVERSITY

WASHINGTON AND

ion
ay

200th Sess

Ww

Under

CS
oO
coe
oO
DQ
io 8
©
Sg
eS,
OS
—

Conquers

England

 

Fall 1956

Class Agents for 1957

1887-1906—Alumni Office

18907 —William Leland Lord, Box 508, Orange, Virginia

1908-A—Philip P. Page, Amherst, Virginia

1908-L—Hiram M. Dow, Box 457, Roswell, New Mexico

1909-A—J. Preston Irwin, 18681 Rivercliff Drive, Cleveland
26, Ohio

1909-L—The Rev. R. Allen Brown, 9501-9th Street, E.O.V.,
Norfolk 3, Virginia

1910-A—Rayford W. Alley, Tuxedo Park, New York

1910-L—Hugh R. Hawthorne, 122 East 42nd Street, New
York 17, New York

1911-A—Henry C. McGavack, 35-55 80th St., Jackson Heights
72, New York

1911-L—N. W. Schlossberg, Box 864, Roanoke, Virginia

1912-A—J. J. Kelly, Jr., Box 201, Big Stone Gap, Virginia

1912-L—Judge A. G. Lively, Lebanon, Virginia

1913-A—The Rev. Harry S. Coffey, 1423 N. Glebe Road, Ar-
lington, Virginia

1913-L—Judge T. R. Bandy, Box 189, Kingsport, Tennessee

1914-A—Col. Paul J. B. Murphy, ‘Kolosandra,” College
Park, Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—Judge William T. Lovins, Capitol Building, Charles-
ton 1, West Virginia

1915-A—

1915-L—W. E. Crank, Box 315, Louisa, Virginia

1916-A—David A. Falk, P.O. Box 2940, Tampa, Florida

1916-L—Lycurgus Hyre, Box 392, Buckhannon, West Virginia

1917-A—W. Calvin Wells, III, P.O. Box 158, Jackson, Mis-
sissippi

1917-L—Harry V. Campbell, P. O. Box 1513, Charleston 25,
West Virginia

1918 —Allein Beall, Jr., P. O. Box 618, Helena, Arkansas

1919 —Irving M. Lynn, Box 411, Lynchburg, Virginia

1920-A—John Blocker, Box 716, St. Petersburg, Florida

1920-L—Judge E. B. Beatty, Beattyville, Kentucky

1921-A—James H. Bryan, 2028 First Avenue, N., Birming-
ham 3, Alabama

1921-L—Carleton E. Jewett, 1500 West 41st St., Richmond 25,
Virginia

1922-A—William A. Williams, P.O. Box 468, Nags Head,
North Carolina

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 North Irving Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia

1923-A—Weldon T. Kilmon, 1207 Roundhill Road, Baltimore
18, Maryland :

1923-L—Barron O. Faulconer, 710 Central, Lexington, Ken-

tucky

1924-A—Paul Bock, Bobbin Mill Road, Media, Pennsylvania

1924-L—J. Hampton Price, Box 466, Leakesville, North Caro-
lina

1925-A—John T. McVay, 1404 Washington Boulevard, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia

1925-L—Dorsey O. Mitchell, 401 Indiana Trust Bldg., In-
dianapolis 4, Indiana

1926-A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., 2861 Leonis Blvd., Ver-
non 58, California

1926-L—W. Hill Brown, Jr., P. O. Box 7, Manassas, Virginia

1927-A—Wilmot H. Kidd, 1128 West Avenue, Richmond 20,
Virginia

1927-L—Charles T. Smith, P. O. Box 334, Keystone Heights,
Florida |

1928-A—Van Alen Hollomon, Majestic Theatre paldin
Dallas 1, Texas

1928-L—John G. Koedel, 2616 Summit Street, Pittsburgh 34,
Pennsylvania

1929- A—Campbell C. Hutchinson, Jr., 1001 Commercial Build-
ing, Shreveport, Louisiana

1929-L—James Cox Wilbourn, Box 965, Métidian. Mississippi

1930-A—W. H. Hawkins, 206 Country Club Road, Wilming-
ton 3, Delaware

1930- Po ne Palmer, 1605 Transit Tower, San Antonio,

1931- ‘Aa judee “alfred D. Noyes, County Office Building,
Rockville, Maryland

1931-L—Manuel Weinberg, 106 N. Court Street, Frederick,
Maryland

1932-A—R. L. McKinney, Jr., Box 321, Denison, Texas

1932-L—James S. Shields, 11060 Exchange Building, Memphis
3, Tennessee

1933-A—Edwin W. Chittum, 148 Granby Street, Norfolk 10,
Virginia

1933-L—-Henry M. Bandy, Jr., Box 558, Norton, Virginia

1934-A—John Dillard Battle, Jr.,. M.D., 14311 S. Woodland
Road, Shaker Heights 20, Ohio

1934-L—E. Rodney Massie, Jr. Box 545, Clifton Forge, Vir-
ginia

1935-A—Allen M. Harrelson, Jr., 2512 Middle Road, Glen-
shaw, Pennsylvania

1935-L—Edwin T. Coulbourn, Box 627, Suffolk, Virginia

1936-A—Richard T. Scully, One Grand Street, Hartford, Con-

necticut

1936-L—John S. Beagle, 608 Genesee Bank Bldg., Flint 2,
Michigan

1937-A—Latham B. Weber, 821 Front Avenue, Salamaca,
New York

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of Goldemith’s 123-137 So.
Main St., Memphis, Tennessee

1938-A—Gerald M. Lively, City National Bank & Trust Co.,
P. O. Box 226, Kansas City 41, Missouri

1938-L—Dan Wilkinson, Box 257, Mewodtt News, Virginia

1939-A—T. W. Bradley, Jr., 62 Lee Gardens, Bristol, Virginia

1939-L—Edgar L. Smith, Box 911, Lewisburg, West Virginia

1940-A—Thomas E. Bruce, Jr., Scottsville, Virginia

1940-L—Edwin J. Foltz, 917 Black Rock Rd., Gladwyn, Penn-
sylvania

1941- Ae Chapman, Jr., P. O. Drawer 887, Dothan, Ala-
ama

1941-L—Charles F. Heiner, 1010 Pine Ridge Road, Richmond
26, Virginia

1942-A—Sidney Isenberg, M.D., 710 Peachtree Sect, N.E.,
Atlanta 8, Georgia

1942-L—James A. Pine, 24 W. Penn. Avenue, Towson, Md.

1943. —Corneal B. Myers, 221 Stuart Avenue, Lake Wales,
Florida

1944 —James P. Gilman, 118 Greenbriar Road, Spartanburg,
South Carolina

1945 —Neal N. Herndon, 3101 Kingtree Street, Silver
Spring, Maryland

1946 —George Stott, 21 Patton Drive, Bloomfield, N. J.

1947  —William T. Romaine, 58 Edgemont Terrace, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia

1948-A—W. W. Burton, 120 Friendship Road, Drexel Hill,
Pennsylvania

1948-L—David B. Cofer, Jr., Box 325, College Station, Texas

1949-A—William H. Leedy, 33 Washington Square, West,
New York 18, New York

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 817 Frank Nelson Building,
Birmingham, Alabama

1950-A—C. William P acy, 1523 Charmuth Road, Lutherville,
Maryland (J. R. McDonald, Co- Agent)

1950-L—Philip M. Later. 310 Lotis Way, Louisville, Ky.

1951-A—-Upton Beall, 824 Fair Foundation Building, Tyler,
‘Texas

1951-L—F. Bert Pulley, Courtland, Virginia

1952-A—Gideon N. Stieff, Ir., 108 Ridgewood Road, Balti-
more 10, Maryland

eee Jr., 207 Security Bank Building, Athens,

1953-A—Leonard B. Ranson, Jr., R. D. No. 1, Stewartstown,
Pennsylvania

1953-L—Robert S. Goldsmith, /r., 101 S. Jefferson Street,
Roanoke, Virginia

1954-A—David P. Comegys, Jr., 606 Rathervue, Austin, Texas

1954-L—L. C. Musgrove, P. O. Box 1868, Roanoke, Virginia

1955-A—Robert H. Mann, Jr., Sigma Chi Fraternity House,
Lexington, Virginia

1955-L—Armour T. Beckstrand, 1001 Cafritz Building, Wash-
ington, D. C.

1956-A—Mark B. Davis, Jr., Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity
House, Lexington, Virginia

1956-L—Ed Ellis, 158 EF i 83ed Street, New York 28, New York

 

 

Commerce Building
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas
, 44, Shreve-

Northwest Louisiana—Richard Eglin
por
Peninsula—Richard E. McMurran,-.’51,, 325 16th
» Newport News, Virginia

St.
Philadelphia—William L. Leopold, °39, 183 Pelham
°36, 203 Southeastern

Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr.,
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina

Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., ’41, 702
Frick Building

Richmond—Don Fergusson, ‘51, 802 Insurance
Building

Roanoke—William B. Hopkins, ’42, Boxley Build-
ing

W. Goode, Jr., °43, 407-09

San Antonio—John
South Texas Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson,
Boulevard
Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, ’31, Box 1672, Huntington,

"21, 4144 Lindell

West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland
Washine ton: D. C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,
, 1313 You Street, N.W.

ine

WASHINGTON ©
oF
eee Fall 1956
goooceee” *e 2
gooodeer’” e Vol. XXXI
& @
eee?
goocc0ee”” ° No. 4
eeoe® ®
@
. Published quarterly by Aiumni, Incorporated
: Washington and Lee University
se ’ - ®
Be ais Albert G. Peery, ’32, Tazewell, Vir e Lexington, Virginia
Augusta-Rockingham—Richard W. Smith, °41, In- -
dustrial Loan Building, Stauton, Virginia e Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 46 Fifth St., N.W. ° at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924
: : : @
Baltimore—T. Talbott Bond, ‘51, Egglestown, e : ;
Maryland e Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
Seat Rood a ogden a” Jr., °49, 2824 @ of Washington and Lee University
ornhi oad, Apt ®
Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., e@
‘84, United Carbon Building . Editor
Chattanooga—Rody Davenport, ’50, 216 Stephen- *
son Avenue, Lookout Mountain, Tennessee * James H. PRICE, JR., 1941
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust | ®
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois .
Charlotte—Herbert Woodward, Jr., ’41, 3916 Shel-
ton Place : - EDITORIAL BOARD
Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter, °41, 1020 Union Trust *
Building 2 PAXTON DAvIs, JR.
Cleveland—Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, 1857 Union
Commerce Building 7 FRANK J. GILLIAM
iar y aa Paul Sanford, ’21, 422 Masonic Build- e JAMES H. PrRIce, Jr.
®
Florida West, Coast—John, A Hanley, 34, First ° DONALD E. SMITH
edera uilding, etersburg H
ARRY K. (Cy) YOUNG
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building = ( )
Miami, Florida e
Houston—Ben Ditto, °43, care of Norton Ditto Co. e
adi ah ea ee B. Conley, Jr., ’48, 625 Hogan ; THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC
Kangas City—W. H. Leedy, 49, 15 West 10th : President
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II, '40 Kentucky 7 MarTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
Home Life Building e
Lynchburg—Richard F. Burke, III, ’42, 203 Lynch e Vice-President
Building e
Mid-South—Harry Wellford, 46, Commerce Title e Howarp W. Dossins, 1942
Building, Memphis, Tennessee 7
New York—Clark B. Winter, ’37, 65 Broadway ® Secretary
New. Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke ®
Sirnice e Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, ’13, °
Beckley, West Virginia . Associate Secretary
Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, ’85, National Bank of s JAmMEs H. PRICE, JR., 1941
; Treasurer
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928 -

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MARTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
JoHN F. HENDON, 1924
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928
HowaArp W. DOBBINS, 1942
PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., 1937
ERNEST Woopwarb, II, 1940
Davip D. JOHNSON, 1921
FRANK C. BROOKS, 1946

COVER:
Leaders of the Future—O pening Convocation, 1956

A New Year Begins

T WAS ONE OF Lexington’s per-

fect days as the new year of-
ficially began at Washington and
Lee on September ig. The sun
shone down from a brilliant sky
on the white columns, on the fresh-
ly clipped green lawns, the old
brick walks, the hundreds of. stu-
dents’ cars, and the bell chimed out
the hours as the tourists’ dogs and
children frolicked under the trees
around Lee Chapel.

Yes, they were familiar sights and
sounds to the upperclassmen who
were unsnarling 1956-57 schedules
and swapping stories about vaca-
tion activities. And they were won-
derful new experiences for the 305
new students from 32 states and
two foreign countries who were be-
ginning an important four years at
the university.

To school officials, the freshmen
looked better than ever. And well
they should—they had been careful-
ly selected from an application list
of 854 young men, a ratio of close

2

to one man chosen from every three
submitting formal application with
fee. Hundreds of others had made
inquiries and requested catalogues,
but did not complete applications.

Because of space limitations stu-
dent enrollment remains pretty
static, and this year came to 1,057,
with 947 in the College of Arts and
Sciences and School of Commerce
and Administration, 106 in the
School of Law, and four special stu-
dnts. This is an increase of only
seven over last year’s initial regis-
tration of 1,050 students.

With the number seeking to en-
roll at Washington and Lee mount-
ing steadily each year, the problem
grows increasingly pressing for of-
ficials to determine the ultimate
size of the university in all aspects.

Last year there were 736 complete
applications for admission to the
freshman class, a record up until
then. In 1954 there were 698 and in
1953, 637. With Washington and
Lee facilities able to handle only

208th Session

 

300 freshmen each year, the job

-of choosing the successful apph-

cants is ever more difficult. What,
then, is the university's duty toward
the tidal wave of students reaching
college age in the next decade?

President Francis P. Gaines and
the Board of ‘Trustees recognize
Washington and Lee’s obligation to
absorb its share of college enroll-
ment growth, but no expansion
will be considered which might
tend to destroy the school’s char-
acteristic flavor of a small college,
or upset the present traditional
student-student and student-teacher
relationships.

In an attempt to find out, “How
big can small be?”’, a special faculty
committee, the university’s Office
of Development, architects, ~-and
other expert consultants are this
year examining needs and problems
which will arise if the enrollment
is increased.

The construction of a university
dining hall and upperclassmen’s

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

dormitory has been approved by
the trustees, but the green light on
this project must await reports by
the study group.

But, to return to the present crop
of freshmen—Dean of Students
Frank J. Gilliam reports that 74
per cent of the class is from the
South, and he includes the “bor-
der’ states of Maryland, Missouri,
West Virginia, Oklahoma, and the
District of Columbia as “South.”
The ratio of men with private
school backgrounds is 52 per cent,
and public schools, 48 per cent.
Choate school of Wallingford, Con-
necticut, has the largest representa-
tion in the freshman class with 13
students. Next is Lamar High
School of Houston, Texas with six.

The state of Virginia again leads
all states with 47 freshmen, fol-
lowed by Maryland with 34.

The twenty-fifth annual fresh-
man camp attracted a record-break-
ing attendance of 270 new students
this year, and was held, like the
six previous ones, at Natural
Bridge. Campers lived dormitory-
style in motor lodge facilities at the
tourist attraction and ate meals in
Natural Bridge’s Gate House cafe-
teria. And although it is a rela-
tively plush setting for a camp, uni-
versity officials agree its lack of
rustic appeal doesn’t impair the
real purpose of the outing.

For three days the freshmen had
a packed schedule. ‘They swam in
the pool, competed hard in touch
football, softball, volleyball or
horseshoes, visited the Natural
Bridge, and learned much of the
school, its customs and traditions,
receiving first-hand advice and
warnings of various pitfalls of the
first college year. Their teachers
were members of the faculty, the
coaches, ROTC officers, student
leaders, and representatives of var-
ious. extra-curricular activities.

A sad note was injected after
the conclusion of the camp, when
its director, Dean Gilliam, an-
nounced this was his last. He

FALL 1956

helped organize the first Freshman
Camp back in 1928, and has worked
diligently through the years to de-
velop this integral part of the ort-
entation program. From now on,
Assistant Dean of Students James
D. Farrar will serve as camp direc-
tor. He will not be a stranger to
the camp, because he has been its
assistant director since 1952.

Classes began on Wednesday
morning, September 19, at 8:25
a.m., with regular noon opening
day assembly in Doremus Gym-
nasium. Dr. Gaines made a short
address, pointing out that each
student “belongs to the University,”
as well as the University belonging
to each student. Washington and
Lee’s new Dean of the University,
Doctor Leon F. Sensabaugh, was
presented and spoke briefly.

And at the end of the week,
seventeen fraternities announced
they had pleged 259 freshmen, or
85 per cent of the entire class.

Lambda Chi Alpha pledged 28
to lead all other Greek-letter or-
ganizations—the largest group in
seven years. Others were: Kappa
Sigma, 23; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
22; Phi Gamma Delta, 20; Sigma
Nu, 19; Beta Theta Pi, 19; Phi
Delta Theta, 18; Sigma Chi, 16;
Phi Kappa Psi, 14; Zeta Beta ‘Tau,
14; Delta Tau Delta, 12; Pi Kappa

Alpha, 12; Phi Kappa Sigma, 11;
Pi Kappa Phi, 10; Delta Upsilon,
10; Phi Epsilon Pi, six. Only eleven
freshmen of the 305 failed to regis-
ter for rush week this year.

‘The 1956 pledges will be the first
to enjoy the absence of fraternity
hazing at Washington and Lee.
The university, through a joint ef-
fort of faculty and the Interfra-
ternity Council, has removed unde-
sirable elements from the so-called
“Hell Week,” and other first se:
mester hazing activities. Emphasis
for prospective initiates will be on
constructive activities from now on.

‘Thus passed opening week of
Washington and Lee’s 208th. ses-
sion. ‘There were other events of
note during the early months. Fac-
ulty members received another
modest salary increase, due in part
to the more than $100,000 given to
the Alumni Fund last year, and to a
grant from the Ford Foundation.
Scholarships to undergraduates
were increased considerably.

Opening Dances were held Oc-
tober 26 and 27, with music by
Dean Hudson’s and Skitch Hen-
derson’s orchestras amidst a “Meet
Me in Las Vegas” theme. ‘The sec-
ond annual Parents’ Day was ob-
served Saturday, November 3, with
guided tours, open houses, teacher-
parent conferences, a report on the

 

Students at the annual Freshman Camp listening to a word of instruction, just before
starting a lively game of touch football. Campers had a full athletic program, as well
as valuable orientation lessons aimed at making their adjustment to college life easier.

3

 

university, a buffet luncheon, and
concerts by the Glee Club and
Band set up for 640 parents and
guardians of students.

Some spirited activity by politi-
cal clubs preceded the November
6 national elections. Homecom-
ing was celebrated on November
g with Sewanee, the University
of the South as the Generals’ grid-
iron victim on Wilson Field, by a
score of 22-7, first victory since the
school fielded an amateur team.

Washington and Lee’s Moot
Court ‘Team competed November
16 in a regional tournament at
Wake Forest against teams from
North Carolina and South Caro-
lina, West Virginia and Virginia.

It was a good beginning for an-
other busy university year.

THE.ONIVERSETY

NEW FACES ON THE faculty this
vear include Dr. Leland W. Mc-
Cloud, associate professor of com-
merce; Dr. Thomas P. Hughes, as-
sistant professor of history; James
R. Connor, assistant professor of
history; Sidney M. B. Coulling, in-
structor in English; James A. Rik-
ard, visiting professor of philoso-
phy; Richard L. Gelwick. director
of religious work; and J. J. Murray,
Jr.. instructor in biology.

Dr. McCloud comes from ‘Texas
Christian University, and Dr.
Hughes from Sweet Briar College.

Mr. Connor will be a one-year
replacement for Dr. Olinger Cren-
shaw, who is teaching at the Naval
War College, Newport, Rhode
Island.

Top left, traditional Rush crowd dashes
into Freshman dormitory, as five days of
fraternity rushing started; second, “Come
around and meet the boys at our house—
you'll like ’em”; third, the glad hand and
ready smile for rushees; bottom, Edward
Bell, Jr., General Motors Company scholar-
ship winner from Washington, Pennsyl-
vania, won the blanket for learning the
most names of fellow first year men in
a contest held at Freshman Camp.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Mr. Coulling, an alumnus, has
been teaching at University of
Maryland, and pursuing his Ph.D.
degree at University of North Caro-
lina. Mr. Rikard, professor of phil-
osophy at Roanoke College, will
teach during the one-year absence
of Dr. E. D. Myers in Europe.

Mr. Gelwick is a graduate of
Southern Methodist University and
received his Bachelor of Divinity
degree at Yale last June.

m THE UNIVERSITY Religious Con-
ference, during the week of De-
cember 3-8, had as its theme, ““The
Bible and the Modern Mind.”
Speakers were Dr. M. F. Hall, Dr.
Emerson Shuck, Dr. Raymond
Seeger, and Dr. Lester McAllister.
Besides addressing assemblies, and
holding panel discussions, the visi-
tors spoke to individual classes dur-
ing the week.

m DR. MARVIN BANKS PERRY, JR,
has been named co-chairman of
the English department, succeeding
Dr. James S. Moffatt, Jr., who re-
tired last June. Dr. Fitzgerald
Flournoy, who was appointed co-
chairman in 1938 with Dr. Moffatt,
will continue in this position, but
Dr. Perry will assume Dr. Mof-
fatt’s duties as executive head of
the department.

Doctor Perry came to Washing-

ton and Lee in 1951 as an assistant
professor, after four years as an in-
structor in English at the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He was promoted
to associate professor in 1953.
_A native of Powhatan, Virginia,
he is a 1940 graduate of the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He received his
M.A. degree at Harvard in 1941
and his Ph.D. degree there in 1950.
His major fields of study have been
in 17th and 1gth century literature,
and the English poet Keats. During
the summer he collaborated on
the preparation of a two-volume
text, designed to provide “An Ap-
proach to Literature” for college
freshmen.

FALL 1956

He is married to the former EI-
len Coalter Gilliam of Lynchburg,
Virginia, and they have two daugh-
ters, 5 and 3. Doctor Perry served
as a naval officer in both the At-
lantic and Pacific during World
War II, and is active in the Naval
Reserve as a lieutenant commander.

m# A RHODES SCHOLAR will teach bi-
ology at Washington and Lee this
year. He is J. J. Murray, Jr., son
of Lexington Presbyterian church’s
longtime minister. A Phi Beta Kap-

 

For PERRY, a promotion

pa graduate of Davidson College,
Jim studied for three years at Ox-
ford University in England on a
Rhodes Scholarship. He was a
member of the 1954 Oxford West
Nepal expedition, and scaled a
22,000-foot Himalayan peak to col-
lect biological specimens. He has
been stationed at Fort Dugway,
Utah, and received his army dis-
charge this fall.

m THOMAS E. ENNIS, accounting in-
structor, attended a_ three-week
study course of Wall Street at the
invitation of the New York Stock
Exchange, American Stock Ex-
change, and four securities groups,

beginning August 21. “Thirty-two
professors from other colleges were
included in the program, which
gave the teachers first-hand infor-
mation about the workings of the
New York financial picture.

m SOME SIGNIFICANT gifts were made
to Washington and Lee during the
past few months, part from indus-
try, part from bequests by alumni,
or their relatives.

An honorary alumnus left a be-
quest of $30,000. The sister of an
alumnus gave $20,000 to be used as
endowment for two $1,000 scholar-
ships. A professional man left
$5,000 to the department at Wash-
ington and Lee which trains young
men in his profession.

The sum of $10,000 came from
the will of an alumnus. The father
of a former student, killed in World
War II, added $2,500 to the schol-
arship endowment in memory of
his son.

“This continued interest in the
cause of youth and youth’s educa-
tion is heart-warming,” said Presi-
dent Francis P. Gaines. “It places
upon the university an ever greater
responsibility to measure up to our
trust, as we endeavor to give the
best possible education to the
young men we serve.”

m DR. LIVINGSTON WADDELL SMITH,
80, head of the mathematics de-
partment from 1906 until 1947
when he retired, died August 9,
1956. He is buried in Stonewall
Jackson cemetery in Lexington.

He received his A.B. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1896, the
M.A. degree in 1898 and the Ph.D.
degree in 1902. He taught at three
schools before returning to Wash-
ington and Lee in 1906 as profes-
sor of mathematics. He became one
of the University’s most beloved
professors during his 41 terms.

Many former students like to talk
about Dr. Smith’s habit of tossing
chalk to emphasize classroom dog-

5

 

ma. On one memorable occasion,
when he threw the chalk and hit
the chalk box squarely, he ex-
claimed, “I have been trying’ to
do that for go years!”’ and dismissed
the class, so all could celebrate
the occasion.

One alumnus has said of him,
“‘He was a wonderful teacher, a
wonderful person, and one of the
fairest teachers I ever saw.”

Dr. Smith was the son of Col.
Francis H. Smith, Jr., for many
years professor at VMI. He was a
grandson of Gen. Francis H. Smith,
first superintendent of VMI, and
great grancson of Major ‘Thomas
Henderson, founder of the U. S.
Naval Academy and of the Protest-
ant Episcopal ‘Theological Semi-
nary at Alexandria, Virginia.

One daughter and two sisters sur-
vive him. His wife, the former Miss
Fanny Gay Catlett of Staunton,
died earlier this year.

After his retirement from teach-
ing in 1947, Dr. Smith was Cin-
cinnati Society Professor of Math-
ematics, Emeritus.

ROTC

# THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Uni-
versity ROTC cadet corps has been
reorganized on a regimental basis,
and ‘Theodore M. Kerr, Midland,
‘Texas, former commander of the
Gaines Guard precision drill team,
has been named to head the corps
of 422 cadets.

Since the ROTC program was
begun here in 1951, organization
for student training has been on
a battalion basis. Under the new
setup, there are two battalions of
two companies each, plus a band
company, and the drill team.

Regular Army officers who direct
the ROTC program believe the
new organization will provide a
better basis for training of future
reserve officers. By enlarging the
chain of command, a greater num-
ber of advanced military students

6

SMITH
A professor gone

will be able to assume leadership
and responsibility on a higher level.
In the corps are 62 seniors, 79
juniors, 100 sophomores, and 181
freshmen. Enrollment is down
slightly; there were 424 cadets last
year, and 530 two years ago, and a
peak of 600 during the Korean
War years of 1952 and 1953.
Cadet lieutenant colonels this
year are John R. Alford, Glasgow,

 

KERR

New responsibilities

 

Virginia, regimental executive of-
ficer; James H. Davis, Houston,
‘Texas, ist Battalion commander;
and. Robert I. Peeples, Houston,
2nd Battalion commander.

THE ROTC UNIT has one new offcer
this year, Capt. Karl F. Stein, who
replaces Capt. ‘Thomas Dinsmore.
Captain Stein is a graduate of the
University of Colorado, has been in
the army about ten years, is mar-
ried, and has three children. He
comes to Washington and Lee from
Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

SCHOLARSHIPS

@ WASHINGTON AND LEE men, in
increasing numbers, do not stop
studying after graduation. Such is
the evidence gathered by Dr. Leon
F. Sensabaugh, dean of the Uni-
versity, who has made a statistical
study of the graduating classes of
1955 and 1956. ‘I'wenty-seven per
cent of them are taking advanced
professional work, many on schol-
arships and fellowships.

This percentage is especially sig-
nificant in view of the numbers of
men who go voluntarily or are
drafted into military service. Many
of these alumni serve their time
with the service and then embark
on graduate work. Another factor
which: heightens the importance of
the 27 per cent pursuing graduate
study is the large number of Wash-
ington and Lee men who enter a
family business upon graduation.

Approximately 20 students from
these two classes entered medical or
dental schools, many engaged in
law studies here or at other universi-
ties, and about go continued their
graduate work in fields of history,
geology, physics, commerce, eco-
nomics, and political science. Seven -
entered theological schools.

A typical ratio might be seen in
geology graduates. In 1955, eight
students were graduated from the
department. Seven went into the
armed forces, one went to gradu-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ate school. In 1956, twelve were
graduated—eight went into service,
and four continued their geology
studies at the graduate school level.

former students have
achieved recognition to themselves
and merit to Washington and Lee
through the fellowships they have
received. Every year since the in-
ception of the Fulbright graduate
program in 1947, Washington and
Lee has been represented with at
least one recipient. This

Many

under the program, bringing to
1g the total number of Washing-
ton and Lee men who have been
awarded this distinction. William
Henry Bartsch, 55, Washington,
D.C., is in Sweden studying eco-
nomics. John Boyer Bell, 53, Birm-
ingham, Alabama, is doing gradu-
ate work in history at the Univer-
sity of Rome, and William H. Wil
liams, 756, Roanoke, Virginia, is
studying Far East history at a
French university.

The Woodrow Wilson Fellow-
ship program is designed to recruit
for the teaching profession men
and women who possess the highest
qualities of intellect, character, and
personality. Awarded one of these
fellowships is F. M. Hood, 56, tor
graduate study in English at the
University of Minnesota.

Clay B. Carr, Jr., 56, Winchester,
Virginia, is a student at Protestant
Episcopal Theological Seminary,
as one of 50 American students
on a Danforth F ellowship.

m WASHINGTON AND LEE expects to
extend undergraduate scholarship
aid to between fifteen and twenty
per cent of its total enrollment
during the next ten years, Dr. Fran-
cis P. Gaines, president, says. Last
year, about twelve per cent of the
student body received scholarship
benefits.

Presently, there are 41 freshmen
receiving $27,360 in scholarship
awards, more than double the

FALL 1956

year,.
three alumni are abroad studying

amount previously available for
first-year students. ‘This was made
possible by scholarships created
from recent large benefactions.
Last year, freshmen received
about $13,000 from endowed schol-
arships. Fourteen new _ awards,
eight known as the Robert E. Lee
scholarships and six as the Letitia
Pate Evans scholarships, have in-
creased this total by $14,800. Funds
for the new Lee scholarships are
derived from the principal sum of
the major portion of an anonymous
$250,000 gift received by the uni-
versity last year. The Evans schol-

     

A tall freshman ROTC student stretches SFG CHaries Coast to his limit 7

arships are from a bequest by the
late Mrs. Evans of Hot Springs,
Virginia.

When these awards have been
established on full four-year cycles,
the total outlay on scholarships
will be increased from an annual
$40,000 in 1954-55 to $90,000, in
1959-60.

LAW SCHOOL

m DR. H. MILTON COLVIN, 75, profes-
sor of law for the past five years,
died Aug. 27, 1956, after a briet
illness. He was the author of sev-

n a fitting

for a uniform hat. Sct. Coast, supply sergeant for the ROTC unit, stands five feet tall,
while JOHN ReyNoLps of North Miami, Florida, measures six feet, six and one-half inces,
weighs 2940 pounds and takes a size 15 shoe. REYNOLDS finally got outfitted properly!

7

eral books and many articles on
legal topics. He received his LL.B.
and J.S.D. degrees from Yale, and
studied international law at The
Hague. He had been connected
with the federal government legal
staff for 17 years before coming to
Washington and Lee in 1951. His
wife, two sons, and one daughter
survive him.

Students of the law school pre-
sented a memorial plaque in honor
of Dr. CoLvin, and placed it in the
Moot Court Room, in a brief cere-
mony this fall at which Mrs. Colvin
was present.

THE ANNUAL TUCKER LECTURES are
tentatively scheduled for April 19
and 20, with the speaker as Dean
F. D. G. Ribble of the University
of Virginia School of Law. His sub-
ject is to be announced later. ‘The
Law School Alumni Association
meeting will be held on Saturday
afternoon of that weekend.

a THE LAW SCHOOL has had a busy
autumn, as usual. One hundred and
six men enrolled in the school, of
which 49 were freshmen, an in-
crease over last year. The new law
students were given a luncheon by
the upperclassmen, and Dean of
the Faculty Leon F. Sensabaugh
and Student Body president Rob
Peeples welcomed the group to the
campus. Dr. Marshall Fishwick
made the main address.

Kingswood Sprott, Jr., of Lake

Wales, Florida, was announced
as the winner of the Martin P.
Burks award.
_ Sprott, Patrick D. Sullivan of
Lorton, Virginia, and Charles C.
Rodriguez of Magnolia, Delaware,
were chosen from a field of eight to
represent the school in Moot Court
competition with other Southern
colleges.

On the trial level, the Law School
held a Mock Trial. November 14 to
decide the fate of a young farmer,

8

William Agrarian, charged with
murdering a family enemy, Frank
Badblood. Much conflicting testi-
mony was presented by witnesses,
who perplexed the jury drawn from
representative fraternity house-
mothers, students’ wives, and Uni-
versity undergraduates. Prosecutors
included Douglas Kyle Frith, Bas-
sett, Virginia; Carl D. Swanson,
Kansas City, Kansas; and Walter
G. Burton, Princeton, West Vir-
ginia. Defense attorneys were Rob-
ert Stroud, Charlotte, North Car-
olina; Hardin Marion, Richmond,
Virginia; and Norman C. Roettger,
Jv., Green Camp, Ohio. Presiding
on the bench was Charles V. Laugh-
lin, procedure professor.

The fall edition of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Review con-
tained leading articles by William
‘IT. Gossett, general counsel of the
Ford Motor Company and Morti-
mer ‘I’. Caplin of the University of
Virginia law faculty. Mr. Gossett
wrote of the role of the corporation
counsel in shaping the policies of

modern corporations in response to
pressures from consumers, stock-
holders, the general public, as well
as his function as advisor and de-
fender in purely legal matters. His
article has drawn considerable com-
mendation from corporation off-
clals as well as from the bar.

In the February issue, two prom-
inent members of the bar will
contribute articles on the problems
connected with personal injury liti-
gation, from the points of view of
counsel for plaintiff and counsel
for defendant. Student editor-in-
chief is Robert R. Huntley,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

m SINCE FREQUENT REQUESTS are re-
ceived by the law school here ask-
ing for names of lawyers interested
in job changes, Dean Clayton Wil-
liams will be glad to hear from
graduates who wish their names
placed on a confidential list for re-
location. Give details of your ex-
perience since graduation.

 

This handsome new three-story structure is the Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity’s new $70,000
home completed in late September. First new fraternity house built here since World
War II, the house is on a hillside on East Nelson street, and features a dining terrace
on the rear. The fraternity formerly occupied a residence on Jackson avenue.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

On the
Athletic Side...

A SQUAD OF TWENTY-FIVE players
makes up this year’s edition of the
Generals’ basketball team, which
Opened its season December first
against the University of Kentucky
at Lexington, Kentucky.

Coach Billy McCann _ has five
lettermen, including senior co-cap-
tain Lee Marshall and junior Dom
Flora, two of the greatest scorers in
Washington and Lee _ basketball
history. Although  injury-ridden
most of last season, Marshall, a six
foot five center, managed 346 points
in 20 games for a 17.3 average.
With the 621 points he scored as a
sophomore, he is just 33 points
short of the 1,o00-mark. Flora, a
guard from Jersey City, has put to-
gether two terrific seasons of 553
and 607 points, and his 1,160 total
ranks third in the record books.

Other letter winners are senior
co-captain Barry Storick, Brooklyn
forward; senior Barclay Smith, Phil-
adelphia forward; and junior Frank

SSS

 

Louisville, Kentucky, furnishes this good-looking representation to the Washington and
Lee football squad. Left to right, front row are: CouRTNEY W. Nog, freshman end; FRED
HEINA, junior guard; Dick Younc, freshman center; and RONALD GEORGEHEAD, freshman
end. Back row, DAvE W. HEeEnbGE, ’52, of Jeffersonville, Indiana, across the river from
Louisville, who was a star end on the Washington and Lee ’Gator Bowl team; BILL
YounG, freshman back and the other twin; E. D. (Corky) Briscor, sophomore. back.

Hoss, Manassas, Virginia, forward.
Other good prospects are on hand
from junior, sophomore, and fresh-
man classes.

 

 

1956-57 Basketball Schedule
Dec. 1 Kentucky Lexington, Kentucky
Dec. 4 Hampden-Sydney Hampden-Sydney, Virginia
‘Dec. 6 William and Mary Home
*Dec. 8 West Virginia Fayetteville, West Virginia
*Dec. 11 Richmond Home
Dec. 15 Virginia Charlottesville, Virginia
*Dec. 19 George Washington Washington, D. C.
Dec. 27-29 Richmond Invitational ‘Tournament Richmond, Virginia
*Jan. 8 Citadel Home
*Jan. 11 Davidson Home
Jan. 15 Presbyterian Home
*Jan. 18 George Washington Home
Feb. 4 Johns Hopkins Baltimore, Maryland
*Feb. 8 Davidson Davidson, North Carolina
*Feb. 9 Citadel Charleston, South Carolina
*Feb. 12 Virginia ‘Tech Blacksburg, Virginia
Feb. 16 Kentucky Wesleyan Home
*Feb. 19 Virginia Tech | Home
Feb. 20 Villanova Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
*Feb. 22 William and Mary Williamsburg, Virginia
Feb. 26 Richmond Richmond, Virginia
Mar. 2 Virginia Home
Mar. 7-9 Southern Conference ‘Tournament Richmond, Virginia
*Conference Games

 

 

FALL 1956

Schedule of the team, which will
be seeking to improve on last year’s
disappointing 12-16 mark, is at, left.

m IN FOOTBALL THIS FALL, it’s been
more of the same medicine as last
season, but not quite so strong a
dose. Coach Bill Chipley’s boys
have been suffering from lack of
experience, the big bugaboo of a
year ago, but since the third game
there has been steady improvement
as the lessons of past defeats begin
to take effect.

The 1956 record stands at one
win and seven losses, an improve-
ment on last year’s showing.

‘The offense has been sharper, the
defense more dependable, and the
squad spirit higher than at any
time previously under the play-for-
fun program.

‘The season got underway with a
near-miss effort against Centre Col-
lege, with the Generals losing, 14-6,

[urn to page 32
9

Lacrosse ‘Team Conquers England

 

Above, watching the U.S. shoreline fade, at the start of the trip; players in Kings’ College
chapel, Cambridge; Cart BAiLey, host PETER JACKSON, Tom Moore, and Coach Cor-
RIGAN tour Cambridge; meeting the Mayor of Manchester, described as a “terrific guy.”
Opposite page, Generals exercise on ship, punt on Cambridge River, have lacrosse sticks
inspected by referee before Lancashire game, compete on London field, enjoy banquet
given in their honor and sign autographs for eager young fans.

10

THE TRADITIONAL ENGLISH re-

reserve was throughly shattered

by the friendliness and good spirits

of the 19-man Washington and Lee

lacrosse squad which made a month-

long visit to the British Isles dur-
ing the summer.

Everywhere the Generals went
during their ten-game_ exhibition
tour, they won friends for them-
selves, the university and America.
“The boys really sold themselves,”
says coach Gene Corrigan. “The
English people would do anything
for them, and they liked our team
better than any other American
team which had been there.”

‘The English crowded around af-
ter games to meet the Generals, to
ask them to tea, to dinner, for auto-
graphs, for visits to their homes,
or just to talk. “They are hospi-
table, wonderful people,” Coach
Corrigan declares, ‘and the _ best
thing about our entire trip was
the attitude of the people and the
way they treated us.”

About a year of planning pre-
ceded the trip. The Washington
and Lee lacrosse team was the
fourth college group since 1948 to
be invited by the English Lacrosse
Union to engage British teams in
an exhibition schedule. English of-
ficials arranged the games, housing,
and entertainment while the Wash-
ington and Lee men collected funds
for the tour from friends, business-
men, and sold advertisement-laden

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

programs at all home games last
year. Cost per man came to around
5440, most of which was spent
for steamship passage. Each mem-
ber put in $300 of his own money.

Finally on June 25, the squad
sailed on the S. S. Zuiderkruis, a
student ship, with trainer, D. A.
Davis, and student photographer
James Kressler accompanying them.
Coach Corrigan flew across and was
on hand to meet them.

During the nine-day boat trip,
the team worked out on deck twice
each day, a sight which quickly
drew spectators.

Play began in Manchester, and
the Americans accustomed them-

Above, lacrosse players touring Lyme Hall, an ancient mansion in Manchester; waiting
for their train in Victoria Station, London; one of the small English fans who stuck
by the team; and toasting an English rendition of the Washington and Lee Swing.

12

selves to the English rules of la-
crosse, such as no substitutions, no
body contact, larger playing fields
with natural boundaries, and
twenty-minute quarters. Another
English custom, that of having no
coach as such, but a playing “skip-
per,” was harder to get used to,
and Coach Corrigan suffered a little
good-natured razzing from the
crowds for his coaching antics from
the sidelines. One old gentleman
even rapped him sharply on the
shoulder during a crucial period
and said, “I say there, you. sit
down!”

‘The Generals found English en-
thusiasm for lacrosse remarkable.

 

Most British players are in their
twenties and thirties, but ranged
upward to 53, and they think noth-
ing of riding a bike 10 or 15 miles
to play a game after work. Specta-
tors were well-mannered, applaud-
ing after each score, but doing lit-
tle yelling except an occasional
“Harass them, men!”

The Americans were feted before
and after all ten games, with tea
parties and hot pot suppers or ban-
quets. They met the Lord Mayors
of Manchester and Stockton, made
trips to Scotland,  Stratford-on-
Avon, Oxford, Cambridge, and
London, where they visited Wind-
sor Castle, the “Tower of London,
Parliament, Westminster Abbey,
and Hyde Park. But more than the
sights they saw, and more than the
nine out of ten games they won,
more than anything else—the Gen-
erals revelled in meeting and know-
ing so many English people, and
found them always congenial, cap-
tivating, and possessing unexpected
warmth. One business executive,
Jack Nuttal, became their guardian
angel, cheering for them at all
games, and even providing a hand-
some birthday cake when twins
Tom and Dick Moore celebrated
their twenty-first birthday on tour.

After the conclusion of the sched-
ule, the squad members split up to
make individual eight-day trips to
the European continent. They met
again at LeHavre on August 5 for
the return journey, and they count
the whole trip as an unforgettable
experience. .

“TI hope all of the teams that
come to England in the future
will be like the boys on this team,”
said an official of the English La-
crosse Union. “They have shown
all the things we like to see in a
young man—spirit, sportsmanship,
and most important, they are gen-
tlemen.”

‘The Manchester Guardian wrote,
‘They have charmed us all by their
sincerity, their modesty, and great
sportsmanship. . .”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Another R. E. Lee

Becomes

College President

OBERT E. LEE, known on the
Washington and Lee campus
from 1938 until 1941 as “Buzz,” be-
came the sixth president of Geor-
gia State College for Women in Mil-
ledgeville, Georgia, on July 18,
1956. The college, part of the Uni-
versity System of Georgia, is a fullv
accredited four-year liberal arts col-
lege enrolling 600 women.

The youthful new college presi-
dent has been active in a number
of phases of education for the past
ten years. In his academic field of
mathematics and statistics, he has
taught at North Carolina State Col-
lege, University of Florida, and
Berry College. He was also in
charge of Research and _ Statistics
with the State Department of Edu-
cation in Florida, where he worked
with State Superintendent ‘Thomas
D. Bailey from 1950-54. During
this period he helped revise the
Index of Taxpaying Ability formu-
la which determines the county al-
lotment of school funds in the
Minimum Foundation Program of
Florida, and was responsible for
the adoption in 1953 of the revised
formula by the Florida Legislature.

FALL 1956

After this four years of exper-
ience at the Florida capitol, Dr.
Lee moved to north Georgia where
he stepped into college administra-
tion. As Dean of Instruction at Ber-
ry College in Rome he was active
in bolstering academic standards
and adding strength to the total
instructional program.

“Buzz” was welcomed to Mil-
ledgeville by Frank Evans, ’26, and
Jere N. Moore, Jr., ’54. This gives
Milledgeville enough Washington
and Lee men to start an alumni
club and elect officers!

The GSCW girls are reacting
favorably to the warm, friendly,
and enthusiastic approach of their
new president, whose trademark is
a bright bow tie. ‘The faculty mem-
bers respect his wisdom and the ease
in which he handles administrative
and academic decisions. |

Although Dr. Lee is not a
‘joiner,’ he has always been a full
participant in civic affairs. He has
served as a Presbyterian elder, a
Kiwanian, a state Y director, a

Jaycee, and a founding member of

the International Christian Leader-
ship in both Tallahassee and Rome.

 

... Student to Prexy in 15 years...

He is the only college president
who lives in an Executive Mansion.
‘The old Governors’ Mansion which
housed Georgia’s Governors from
1838 to 1865 has been the tradi-
tional home of GSCW presidents
since the college opened its doors
in 1891. The home is enlivened by
Mrs. Lee (Mary Dean Lott), Mary
Dean, 11; Bill, 9; and Robert, 6.

“Buzz” made the jump from stu-
dent to college president in just
fifteen years. At Washington and
Lee, he played on the tennis team
and was a member of Beta Theta
Pi Fraternity, and sang in the Glee
Club for four years, serving as
business manager his junior year.
Also during his junior year, he was
elected president of the statewide
YMCA organization, and served as
dormitory councilor, and a member
of the Christian Council. He was
graduated with a B.A. degree
and went on a fellowship to Van-
derbilt, where he received his M.A.
in 1942. From 1942-1946, he served
in the United States Navy, and by
1950 he had completed work on his
doctorate and won that degree
from the University of Florida.

13

 

 

The new Shenandoah Life building and retiring president Buford, whose efforts sparked the company’s remarkable growth.

A Career of Service

ORTY YEARS AGO, when the Shen-
fk andoah Life Insurance Com-
pany opened for business in Roa-
noke, Virginia, it had one paid em-
ployee and a two-room office. Paid-
in capital was $121,920, and the
contributed surplus was $73,638.
At the end of the year, the com-
pany’s statement showed $1,504,994
of ordinary insurance in force.

‘Twelve years later, total insur-
ance had risen to $72 million. In
1938, it was almost $180 million,
and now, in 1956, insurance in
force is $490,491,719, and the com-
pany owns a $1,688,942 home office
in a 35-acre park; a standard and
FM radio station and a television
station in a new downtown build-
ing; and 24 branch offices in many
states and the District of Columbia.

14

Much of the credit for this suc-
cess story goes to Shenandoah’s pres-
ident since 1939, Paul C. Buford,
"13, although he modestly attribues
Shenandoah’s growth to the young
and enthusiastic officials and’ em-
ployees around him.

Mr. Buford first came to live in
Virginia as a Washington and Lee
student in 1912. He is a native of
College Hill, Mississippi, but spent
his boyhood at White Haven, in
western Tennessee, where his family
moved when he was seven. He re-
received his bachelor of arts degree
in 1913 and Law degree in 1915,
both from Washington and Lee,
and then went to Roanoke to begin
practice of law. |

Except for World War I service,
when he went to France as a first

lieutenant of field artillery, he
maintained his law office in Roa-
noke until he became president of
the insurance company. He is a
former head of the Roanoke Bar
Association and the Roanoke
Chamber of Commerce; he is a
trustee of the Roanoke Hospital
Association and of Hollins College;
and a member of the American
Legion, the Military Order of the
World War, the Shenandoah Club,
Kiwanis, and Roanoke Country
Club. He has resigned as president
of the insurance company effective
December 1, but will continue as
chairman of the board.

He married Anne Warren in
1924, and they have four children.

He has been a wonderful friend
to Washington and Lee, and was

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

a member of the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees from 1951-56, serving as
president. He was chairman of the
Alumni Fund Council from 1954
until the first of September 1956,
and did an outstanding job for
the university with this new group.

Shenandoah’s new home is_ of
modified Georgian architecture,
300 feet long, a three-story center
section with a pair of two-story
wings, and a 42-foot cupola. It is
located in a southwest residential
secuion, heavily wooded, isolated,
yet only two and one-half miles
from the center of the bustling
city. From the winding highway
below, travellers gaze upward
through the stately boxwoods and
beautifully landscaped grounds to
what looks very much like a mod-
ern school building. Inside, rooms
are large, ceilings high, to allow
freedom of space.

In November, 1955, the company
completed a project begun twenty-
one years before—it converted from
a stock company to a mutual
life insurance corporation wholly
owned by its policyholders. ‘The
company is fourth largest in assets
among life insurance firms domi-
ciled in Virginia and has third
largest amount of insurance in
force. At the beginning of this year,
it had assets of $43,727,432, of
which over $26 million were in
mortgage loans and over $10 mil-
lion in government and_ other
bonds. Surplus had reached $3,-
550,361, an increase of almost 10
per cent in one year.

Library Adds Two
New Assistants

m TWO NEW ASSISTANT librarians
have joined the staff of McCor-
mick Library—James C. Hearon
of Middleboro, Kentucky, and
Harold R. Jenkins of Pottstown,
Pennsylvania. Both received their
library science masters’ degrees last
June.

FALL 1956

 

It isn’t VALENTINE’S famous statue, but a copy small enough to hold in one hand.

Another Recumbent Statue in Lexington

HINKING OF LEE CHAPEL automatically brings to mind a picture of the
most impressive part of its interesting interior—the recumbent statue
of General Robert E. Lee.

That magnificent piece of sculpture by Valentine has remained a
cherished memory to many a former student, and many a casual tourist.
It also fascinated the Washington and Lee photographer, ‘Thorn Borth-
wick of Lexington, from the moment he saw it. He has photographed it
from every angle, many times, but the photographs were not enough.

About two years ago, he determined to try his hand at carving a
miniature of the statue. With an ordinary pocket knife and a few tools
he made for himself, he has created a plaster of paris copy that looks
for all the world like the real thing. His statue measures only three inches
across and seven inches long, and is mounted on a wooden base.

He used two blocks of plaster for the miniature, and made it as near
to scale as possible. He has done the intricate folds of the blanket, the
tiny seals on either side, even General Lee’s beard with amazing meticu-
lousness. And all this with never a lesson in art or sculpting!

Although the miniature took about two years in the making, Thorn
used it just as a part-time hobby to relax after long hours of darkroom
work. He carved the copy at home on nights whenever he could spare as
much as a half hour or more.

When at last he decided the miniature was finished, he soaked it in
alum water to harden it, and sprayed lacquer on it to form a protective
coating. Now he has it on display at his office on Nelson Street.

Friends have been urging him to investigate the possibilities of hav-
ing copies cast from the tiny recumbent statue, to sell as souvenirs, and
believe that such an idea would have good market value. ‘Thorn says
he’ll think about it later—right now he’s too busy taking pictures for
the 1957 Calyx.

15

 

 

A MESSAGE FROM

To the Alumni of Washington and Lee University:

I have recently embarked on a fascinating experiment in my academic
life. After serving for twenty years in another liberal arts college as teacher
and part-time administrator, I have assumed the deanship of the university
at Washington and Lee.-Although familiar with the general principles and
problems of administration, I have really ventured into a new academic
life. And I might add quickly that I have in no way been disappointed.

My good impressions of Washington and Lee from afar have been
borne out by actual contacts. As an educator all of my adult life, I have
long been aware of the unique position which this institution has in the
educational life of the South. Its rich traditions and heritage are unusual;
few schools can compare with it. It also has a national prestige; educators,
and even the “‘average’”’ man everywhere, know of Washington and Lee. Its
reputation for scholarship is attested to by the fact that its faculty has been
active in scholarly production and by an increase in applications for en-
trance to the University, although the high school graduates know that it is
becoming more and more difficult to obtain a place in the freshman class.
‘The success of its alumni has also enhanced the reputation of the university.

I have found an alert and friendly faculty. It is a faculty that works
hard at the task of turning out an intelligent product. Productive scholar-
ship is the goal of many of the faculty, but the first order of business is
the education of the youth entrusted to its care. The men give freely of
their time in order to accomplish this end.

I would be presumptuous if I offered, at this early date, a new pro-
gram for Washington and Lee, for the University already has a good pro-
eram. Further implementation of this program may be necessary, and I
shall give encouragement to the carrying out of the plans which the faculty
has already approved. I certainly want to do everything I can to main-
tain the high standards for which the University is noted. I want to keep
intact the excellent faculty which is assembled here. I want to observe the
operation of the University, and if in the future I can make suggestions
that will be of benefit, I will work with the faculty and administration in
doing everything possible not only to maintain the standard which the
University has but to do my bit in making the University even better
known and better respected. I feel that the alumni will respond to this aim
and will do their part in bringing greater prestige to their Alma Mater.

LEON F. SENSABAUGH

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

17.

Chapter News

HOUSTON

Eighty-four persons attended the
Washington and Lee Alumni chap-
ter meeting in Houston at the Pine
Forest Country Club on August
21. A fellowship hour and a din-
ner were held, with Milton Mor-
rison, 38, president, welcoming the
group.

Dr. Marvin Perry, co-chairman of
the English department, gave the
address of the evening, telling of
the university at present, and plans
for its future.

Rob Peeples of Houston, presi-
dent of the student body at Wash-
ington and Lee, presided. He spoke
briefly of the honor system, and

introduced Neil Bland, a junior,

who discussed the athletic program
at the university.

Eight new students and _ their
parents were introduced, and two
prospective students and their par-
ents. Four other new students, and
three upperclassmen could not be
present, as they were out of town.

Dr. and Mrs. Troy Laswell of
the Washington and Lee faculty
and Dr. Alan Chidsey, headmaster
of St. John’s school, and Mrs. Chid-
sey were also guests.

Armour Beckstrand, °55-L, was
elected president of the Houston
chapter, but before he could take
office, he was transferred to Wash-
ington, D.C.

PENINSULA

Alumni of the Virginia Penin-
sula area were entertained on Sep-
tember 7 by Parke Rouse at his
home near Williamsburg. About
30 attended, and made plans for
another meeting, a cocktail partv
on October 22 at the Hotel Cham-
berlain at Old Point Comfort.

18

Officers were selected as follows:
president, Richard E. McMurran,
51; vice-president, Douglas M.
Smith, °51; secretary, Vernon T.
Strickler, Jr., °38; treasurer, Dennis
B. Edwards, ’24.

BIRMINGHAM

Dr. Leon Sensabaugh, professor
at Birmingham-Southern College
who was recently appointed Dean of
Washington and Lee University,
was honored by the Birmingham
chapter at its spring meeting on
May 10. Dr. Sensabaugh, after being
introduced by Jack Stuart, former
president of Birmingham-Southern,
gave a brief talk to the chapter,
following which Howard D. Leake,
‘24, extended to him the chapter’s
welcome to Washington and Lee.
The dinner meeting, which was pre-
ceded by a social hour, was held at
the Birmingham Country Club.
Bestor Brown, ’30, president of the
chapter, presided.

‘The following officers were elect-
ed for the coming year: Warren
Merrin, 47, president; Charles Al-
lison, ’26, vice-president; John Coe,
25, treasurer; and Robert Reid,
"49, secretary.

WASHINGTON

Approximately 100 Washington
and Lee alumni from the Wash-
ington, D.C., area met for a cock-
tail party and dinner dance at
the Army-Navy Country Club on
Saturday, June g, 1956. John War-
ner, Jr., ‘49, was installed as the
chapter’s new president and Arthur
C. Smith, Jr., ’41, was installed
as the secretary-treasurer of the
Washington group. Jim Trundle,
°50, Who had_ previously been

elected vice-president of the chap-
ter, was transferred to Philadel-
phia before he was able to take
over his new duties.

NEW YORK

‘Twenty New York alumni took
part in the chapter’s first ‘“Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Golf Out-
ing’ at the White Beeches Golf and
Country Club, Haworth, New Jer-
sey, on July 24.

‘Top honors in the 18-hole affair
went to Hugh Bonino, ’36, who
scored a low net of 73 under the
Callaway scoring system. Second
honors went to Richard Brunn, ’42,
with a 74 and third to Clark Win-
ter, 37, president of the New York
chapter, with a 75.

So successful was the outing that
chapter officials have scheduled a
second affair this fall on a Long
Island course.

The golf outing was part of a
stepped-up New York program
which contemplates more frequent
get-togethers and a series of special
activities for limited interest groups,
including tennis players, golfers,
card sharks and others.

Chapter-wide activities _ tenta-
tively scheduled for the coming year
include monthly luncheons, an an-
nual meeting, dinner-dance, family
picnic and at least two smokers.

Appointment of two committees
to help steer the chapter’s activities
were recently announced by Presi-
dent Winter. On the planning com-
mittee are Robert Steele, ’41, chair-
man; Emerson Dickman, ’37; and
Richard Snyder, ’41. Making up
an endowment fund committee are
Hugh Bonino, ’36, chairman; Gos-
set McRae, ’27; and D. Henry
Northington, ’53.

The White Beeches golf outing
was staged under the direction of
Dickman assisted by a golf commit-
tee, including Stephen Campbell,
"41; Donald Bourne, ’51, Winter,
Steele and Bonino.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

9 y HERBERT S. Larrick has been prac-

ticing law in Winchester, Virginia, since
his graduation from Washington and Lee.
Mr. Larrick is president of ‘The Commer-
cial and Savings Bank. Address; 44 Rouse
Avenue, Winchester, Virginia.

02 Dr. W. T. Etxis was honored on

May 23, 1956, by the State and County
Medical Societies of Pennsylvania for hav-
ing practiced medicine for fifty years in
that state. On June 16, Dr. Ellis, as presi-
dent of the 1906 Medical Class, was among
the fifty-year men who were honored by
the University of Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM McCoy, Franklin, West Virginia,
attorney, was honored by the South
Branch Valley Bar Association in recogni-
tion of his having been actively engaged in
the practice of law for over 50 years. Mr.
McCoy, who was Prosecuting Attorney
of Pendleton County from 1909 to 1939,
served as a member of the West Virginia
House of Delegates in 1907 and from
1941 to 1952. His son WILLIAM, JR., ’43, is
practicing law with him.

OsMAN E. Swartz retired as general coun-
sel of United Carbon Company in Jan-
uary, 1956, after having served 27 years
in that capacity. He continues as director
of the company.

09 WittiaM Coucu Davis, JR., form-

erly right of way agent for the Seaboard
Air Line Railroad, with headquarters in
Norfolk, has retired after 30 years of serv-
ice with the road. Mr. Davis joined the
Seaboard’s real estate department in Nor-
folk in January, 1926, and was active in
that phase of the railroad’s operations un-
til his retirement. He lives with his wife
at 6301 Powhatan Avenue, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia.

FALL 1956

1] Henry Moncure has been moved
from chief of process inspection to chief
chemist at the Radford Arsenal. Address:
500 Ninth Street, Radford, Virginia.

1¢ L. BrerKELEY Cox, general coun-
sel of the Aetna Life and Affiliated Com-
panies of Hartford, toured Mexico and
Guatemala last winter. His son BERKELEY,
is in Law School at Washington and Lee.

/ 5 Tayior H. Stuxes, Chief Justice of
the South Carolina Supreme Court, has
been elected moderator of the state's
Presbyterian Synod for the coming year.
A well-known elder and layman from
Manning, South Carolina, Justice Stukes
at one time represented the Presbyterian
Church of the United States on the Gen-
eral Assembly of the National Council of
Churches.

16 SAMUEL P. KOHEN, of 1031 Stan-
ford, Santa Monica, California, is now in
charge of claims for the Veterans Admin-
istration in the second largest office in the
United States.

BrapFrorp L. THompson has been in Pitts-
burgh since 1943. At present he is general
manager of the School Equipment and
Supply Division of the William G. Johns-
ton Company and resides at 423 Olympia
Road, Chatham Village, Mount Washing-
ton, Pittsburgh 11, Pennsylvania. Both his
son and daughter are married, and Mr.
Thompson has four grandchildren.

/ 7 GABRIEL DE LA HABA, specializing
in banking and corporation law, is general
counsel of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico,
largest bank in that territory. Gabriel

says that he saw FRANK WISSLER, '19, Vaca-
tioning not long ago in Puerto Rico.

If anybody wants to know where to find
superior rainbow trout, ask CHARLIE
PETERS. He raises them, in a_ beautiful
spot he owns in Monroe county, West
Virginia, where a large stream of lime-
stone water gushes out of the mountain.
For some good fishing and a little bourbon
and branch, see Charlie. He spends a
great deal of time as trial lawyer in
Charleston, but finds opportunities to flick
a fly line at the trout, too.

ROBERT R. KANrF, Landed Gentleman of
Boyce, Virginia, has a farm in the Valley
of Virginia and is raising white-faced
cattle and Hampshire sheep. Besides all
the animals, he has three children, and
four grandchildren.

Birt YANCEY is a_ retired colonel with
over 34 years of active duty in the army,
and is living in Harrisonburg, Virginia.
His only son is in the regular Air Force,
stationed at the new Air Force Academy
at Denver. Bill says he and Mrs. Yancey
had a nice trip to Europe in 1954 for
several months.

Although he has not been to Lexington
since 1938, GEORGE N. DANIELSON of St.
Paul, Minnesota, takes the Lexington
weekly paper so he can read the local
news.

HORNER C. FIsHER was honored with a
Distinguished Service Award trom Stet-
son University recently for his “pre-em-
inence as an attorney and leader.’ He or-
ganized the first Legal Ethics Institute in
the United States, and as a member of the
American Judicature Society, worked to
win the passage of a legislative act cre-
ating the Judicial Council of Florida. The
award went on to commend Horner for his
service in civic affairs and his contribu-
tions to the welfare of his adopted state.

Emory P. BARRow is very much _ inter-
ested in non-subsidized football at Wash-
ington and Lee, and points out that the
university “never had better teams than
in the years 1915-1916, at which time we
knew nothing of subsidization....I am
very hopeful that the day will soon come
when they will be able to put another
team on the field that will hold its own
against University of Virginia, University
of West Virginia, et als. There is no
reason why this can’t be done without
subsidization, but the student body’s spirit
will have to undergo a complete change.”

Twenty-four years as mayor of Oak Hill,
West Virginia, is the record piled up by
CLAUDE R. Hitt, who finally decided to
retire from politics and let another fel-
low have a chance. He is president of
Merchants and Miners National Bank, Hill
Realty Company, Mankin Lumber Com-
pany, and Hill Company, Inc. He is
father of four children, one of whom
C. R. Jr., is a law graduate of Washing-
and Lee in 1954. Claude has six grand-.
children.

19

 

 

 

23 M. I. DuNN, Jr., has been ap-

pointed vice president of operations in
charge of the combined transportation,
mechanical and engineering departments
of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
Company. “M. I.,” who has been vice
president of construction and mainten-
ance since 1954, joined C&O in 1916.
‘Two years later he left to attend Wash-
ington and Lee and rejoined the com-
pany after graduation. Since that time
he has held positions in both the main-
tenance of way and operating departments
at a number of cities on the Chesapeake
and Ohio. As vice president of opera-
tions, ““M. I.” will move his headquarters
from Huntington to Cleveland.

Dr. Lee M. Harrison, a professor of sec-
ondary education, has been promoted to a
full professorship at Louisiana State Uni-
versity. “Pat,” a native of Bluffton, Geor-
gia, received his master’s degree from
Washington and Lee in 1927. He received
his doctorate from Louisiana State in 1948.

Davip H. MATSON has been named vice-
president in the American and Foreign
Power Company, a_ billion-dollar inter-
national electric power company with
subsidiaries in 11 Latin-American coun-
tries. Dave has been president of the
Mexican subsidary, Compania Impulsora
de Empresas Electricas, since 1948.

DEWITT SINCLAIR is superintendent of Flor-
ida State Prison at Raiford, Florida. Ad-
dess: Box 221, Raiford, Florida.

FREDERICK LYLE SATTES reports that he is
still in the sand business and real estate
development in the Charleston, West Vir-
ginia area. Lyle spends most of his spare
time in church work, being very active in
the First Presbyterian Church in Charles-
ton. His special interest is teaching a
class of young adults in Sunday School.

JosepH. R. Lone is still practicing law in
St. Louis. He is a partner in the firm with
the rather formidable title of Fordyce,
Mayne, Hartman, Renard & Stribling.
They are located at 506 Olive Street, St.
Louis 1.

2 4 FRANK CUNNINGHAM SWITZER Was

unanimously elected mayor of Harri-

20

sonburg, Virginia, on September 1, 1956.
Frank was a member of the original coun-
cil-manager government Council elected
four years ago and was re-elected to the
Council in June. He is also an executive
of the Harrisonburg Telephone Company.

25 W. CARROLL MEAD who is chair-

man of the Education Committee, Invest-
ment Bankers Association of America, will
serve as chairman of the program com-
mittee in the sixth annual Industrial
Council, a national forum of educators
and American industry. ‘The Council’s
session, to be held at Rensselaer Polytech-
nic Institute, will have as its subject “The
American Securities Business.” John is a
partner of Mead, Miller & Company, stock
brokers of Baltimore, Maryland.

Since 1949, Hers Gouip has been General
Manager of the Motors Holding Division
of Generals Motors Corporation. Herb is
a trustee of Dickinson College and _ re-
cently was awarded an honorary Doctor
of Business Administration degree at Rio
Grande College. His new residence ad-
dress is 792 Harcourt, Grosse Pointe Park,
Michigan.

Epwin W. Brown, ’25, has two sons in prep
school now, one at McDonogh, Mary-
land, the other at Palm Beach, Florida.
One daughter is in grade school, and an-
other in high school. His address is Box
150, Island Heights, New Jersey.

Virt L. CHOATE has resigned from the
North Carolina State Utilities Commis-
sion, where he headed the accounting de-
partment, to accept a position with the

©06060000930690860606095960600808600066630696006600060606008060660068

 

EDWARD H. OULD, ’29, is the new
president of the First National Ex-
change Bank, oldest and largest
bank in Roanoke, Virginia. His
promotion from executive  vice-
president became effective in Sep-
tember.

He has been with the bank for
20 years, and is a graduate of Rut-
gers University Graduate School of
Banking. He is active in the Vir-
ginia Bankers’ Association and is
vice-president for Virginia of the
American Bankers’ Association.

Besides excelling in his profes-
sion, Ed has spent countless hours

of service to his community and
state, with particular emphasis on
serving youth. He is a past direc-
tor of the Blue Ridge Council, Boy
Scouts of America, and serves as a
member of the board of the YMCA.

And his interest in educational
institutions has extended over and
above his ties to Washington and
Lee. Sometimes when he comes to
Lexington, he doesn’t stop at the
columns, but keeps going down
Letcher avenue to those grey bar-
racks, because Ed accepted ap-
pointment from Governor ‘Thomas
B. Stanley to the V.M.I. Board of
Visitors last June. He is also on the
board of trustees for Roanoke Col- |
lege.

He is a former president of the
Roanoke Chamber of Commerce; a
director of the ‘Times-World Cor-
poration; past president of the Roa-
noke Country Club; past director
of the Shenandoah Club and Roa-
noke Rotary Club; member of the
board of the Roanoke Symphony
Orchestra; and member of the
board and finance commission of
Raleigh Court Methodist church.

His son, E. H. Ould, Jr., is now
a junior in liberal arts at Wash-
ington and Lee, and is a member
of Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Lee Telephone Company in Martinsville,
Virginia. An accountant since 1927, Virl
worked nineteen years for the Virginia
Public Service Company and the Virginia
Electric and Power Company, became
senior auditor for the Virginia State Cor-
poration Commission in 1946 and took his
present job with the North Carolina Com-
mission in 1949. Virl has two married
daughters and a grandson.

26 RosBert C. SmitH, director of in-

dustrial relations, has been elected as
vice-president of Pullman-Standard a
Manufacturing Company, world’s largest
builder of railroad freight and passenger
cars. Bob has been with Pullman-Stand-
ard since 1946 and has been industrial re-
lations director since 1949. In 1952 he
was also named pension and insurance
administrator of Pullman Inc.

2/ GEORGE T. ELLis is the new head

of the trust division of the First National
Exchange Bank of Roanoke, Virginia. He
has been an employee of the bank since
1927, and has held positions in the trust
division for the past twenty years.

JouN F. ForsyTH is assistant to the presi-
dent of Mobile Gas Service Corporation.
Address: P. O. Box 1130, Mobile, Alabama.

29 ApRIAN L. MCCaArbDELL has become

vice-president of the Charleston National
Bank at Charleston, West Virginia, after
ten vears in Norfolk with the Seaboard

 

COLONEL BENJAMIN M.

AYARS, “31, Treé-
cently graduated again from college—the
Army War College at Carlisle Barracks,
Pennsylvania. He is a veteran of 14 years
in army service. Ben and his wife visited
the campus last May to attend the 25th
Anniversary Reunion of his class.

FALL 1956

Citizens National Bank. He was an assist-
ant state bank examiner in Baltimore and
a national bank examiner for the Fifth Re-
serve District, as well as practicing law,
and serving as assistant city attorney of
Norfolk. He is the father of two children.

BENJAMIN B. KNIGHT, JR., has been made
assistant superintendant of the Coal River
Division of the Chesapeake and Ohio Rail-
way. Formerly a resident of St. Albans.
West Virginia, Ben will move to Clifton
Forge, Virginia. He has been with the
company since 1929.

32 Dr. FRANK CUNNINGHAM, director

of Sequoia University Press, served as
public relations director for the Consti-
tution party’s California campaign for
the presidential ticket of ‘T. Coleman An-
drews and Thomas H. Werdel. He was
awarded two honorary degrees during the
past year—doctor of journalism from Bur-
ton College in Colorado, and Doctor of
Laws by the College of Seminarians in
New York.

Jack G. Marks, since February 15, 1956.
has been special assistant attorney gen-
eral of the state of Arizona. He maintains
his offices at 4oo Avenida de Palmas, Tuc-
son, Arizona.

33 EDWARD E. FERGUSON, -MLD.., 1S

practicing urology in Washington, D.C.
Address: 1835 Eye Street, N.W.,..Washing-
ton 6, D.C.

3 { Hotmerts M. Dyer was recently

promoted to Sales Manager of the Acush-
net Process Company, New Bedford, Mas-
sachusetts. Holmes now resides on Pie
Alley, Marion, Massachusetts.

M. L. “Jack” Kiprs, JR., formerly assistant
cashier of the Bank of White Sulphur
Springs, West Virginia, has been promoted
to cashier. He has been with the bank for
20 years.

MANNING H. WILLIAMS recently was ap-
pointed chief of the Voice of America’s
newly established Russian branch in the
European program division. Manning has
been connected with government and
private information programs involving
Soviet affairs since Warld War II.

ARNOLD S. DALLAVA is laundry manager at
the Beach Front Hotel, Atlantic City.
Arnold served in the Coast Guard in
World War II, and was married in July,
1947. His address is 247 New York Road,
Absecon, New Jersey.

35 CLAIBOURNE H. DARDEN has been

connected with Sands and Company for a
number of years in an executive capaci-
ty. ‘(The company is primarily an opera-

 

ALLEN M. HArRELSON, °35, has
been named_ vice-president and
treasurer of H. K. Porter Company,
Inc., and will have his offices in the
company’s Pittsburgh headquarters.
Before joining Porter, he was Con-
troller of Scaife & Company. Allen

is on the Hampton ‘Township
School Board in Glenshaw, Penn-
sylvania, his residence. He served
as Agent for the Academic Class
in 1955-56 Alumni Fund campaign.
He and Mrs. Harrelson have six
children, aged 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, and
g, and live in a big old house
situated on five and one-half acres
of land, near the outskirts of Pitts-
burgh. He says he always has a
guest room ready for his Wasb-
ington and Lee friends and _ their
families.

O©S8eTeSeseeeeeoooescesoeeooeooeoeo

tor of Railway Commissaries but has
lately entered the field of automatic
catering. He, his wife, Dorothy, and
children live at 802 Dover Road, Greens-
boro, North Carolina.

GriER WALLACE, JR., is in a partriership
as a manufacturer’s representative for
several electrical manufacturers, covering
three states: Virginia, North Carolina and
South Carolina. Grier lives at 419 Chero-
kee Place in Charlotte, North Carolina,
with his wife, Jeanne, and three children:
Margaret g, Jimmie 7, and Jack 4.

JouHN D. Spor is a Division Manager for
Fleet-Wing Corporation, a subsidiary of
the Standard Oil Company (Ohio). His

21

 

 

wife Carol, three children—a boy and two
girls—‘‘along with quite an assortment of
dogs, cats, parakeets, and tropical fish
live a real rural life some fifty miles
west of Detroit,’ while John travels over
Ohio and Michigan.

Gus MorcGan, after ten years with the
E. H. Crump & Company as manager of
their real estate department, has hung
out a shingle of his own. Address: Colum-
bian Mutual ‘Tower, Memphis, Tennessee.

WILLIAM B. Gaps, who has been with
Benjamin Moore and Company (paint
manufacturers) since 1933, has served as
sales supervisor for the Virginia-Carolina
territory since 1952. Bill has four children,
three girls and a boy. Address: 45 Old
Mill Road, Richmond 26, Virginia.

ARTHUR Murpuy. Dory, has. recently re-
veived a promotion from his former po-
sition as Director of Education and Train-
ing and is now Assistant Director of
Personnel Relations for the Aluminum
Company of American. Address Quail Hill
Road, Fox Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania.

36 CHARLES A. SWEET, JR., Writes that

he has been a banker in Bristol, Con-
necticut, since 1946 and that in the past
year he has managed to have articles on
fishing published by several magazines.
He further writes, “Like a pitcher who
manages to get a hit, I’m probably overly
impressed with my avocation. For the past
three years I’ve been fishing for Atlantic
salmon on vacation, so at least I can
rationalize that it hasn’t been time
wasted.”

Dr. FRED N. SAGER is now practicing den-
tistry in Danville, Virginia. He is a gradu-
ate of the University of North Carolina
School of Dentistry, and is married and
has one daughter.

STUART T. MILLER was transferred from
Western Electric’s headquarters office at
195 Broadway, New York City, to the
Duluth, Minnesota, shops. His new as-

signment is assistant superintendent in.
charge of the apparatus assembly and re-

lay adjustment departments and the pro-
duction department. Stuart has served in
various Capacities with Western Electric
since 1936. In New York he had been
assistant superintendent of labor rela-
tions in the manufacturing division since

1954:

22

R. FRAZIER SMITH, JR., recently was ap-
pointed postmaster of the Covington,
Virginia, post office. Acting postmaster
since 1954, Frazier has been with the post-
al service for nearly three years. His ap-
pointment gives Covington its first per-
manent postmaster since 1947.

3, LAURENCE W. WILSON, JR., writes

that he is still working for Blue Bell, Inc..
in Greensboro, North Carolina, as a sales
representative for Virginia, North Caro-
lina, and South Carolina. Larry has four
children, three girls and a boy.

RICHARD K. StuART has been with the De-
partment of State since 1947 and is now
chief of the Southeast Asia Branch, Di-
vision of Research for the Far East. After
graduate study at the universities of Mas-
sachusetts, Yale and Maine, Dick taught
for three years and then served with the
Army for four years in the Far East. He
has three children, two daughters, ages
eight and six, and a son, four years old.
Address: 1617 North Greenbrier Street,
Arlington, Virginia.

NorMAN C. SmitH, following photogeolog-
ical projects in Guatemala and Cuba last
year, has been involved this year with ad-
ditional work in Guatemala as well as a
project in Venezuela. During a recent trip
to Caracas he found, after an absence
of sixteen years, a complete modernized
and reconstructed city. Norman writes,
“The city has been so changed and ex-
panded that it was like visiting for the
first time. It was reassuring to find that

 

JAMEs S. Bruce, °37, of Rochester, N. Y.,
is now assistant director of training for
Eastman Kodak company. He joined Ko-
dak in 1939 as technical engineer in the
paper service division, and became assist-
ant superintendent of the division in 1952.

the geology of the country had not
changed.”

38 J. Hiram SmiruH is with the U. S.

Geological Survey as a geologist. Engaged
at present in geologic mapping in the
eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains,
he has been stationed in Denver for
about eighteen months. Address: Route
1, Box 20, Denver, Colorado.

WILLIAM L. WILSON was recently elected a
director of the First National Bank of
Cumberland, which is one of the oldest
banks in the United States. Billy served
as Regional Agent for the Cumberland
(Maryland) area in 1955-56 Alumni Fund
Campaign.

39 Joun T. Fey has been appointed

Clerk to the Supreme Court of the United
States by Chief Justice Earl Warren. Prior
to his appointment John was Dean of
the George Washington University Law
School.

GEORGE EvANS GoopwIN, JR., vice-presi-
dent of the First National Bank in Atlan-
ta, recently was appointed to the National
Public Relations Committee of the Na-
tional Council of Christians and Jews, and
to the Committee on Southern Develop-
ment recently organized by the National
Planning Association. George has served
as the vice-president of the Southern Asso-
ciation of Science and Industry and as
publicity director of the 1956 Atlanta
Community Chest campaign.

40 LAWRENCE E. Carson, who has been
with Union Carbide and Carbon since
graduation, was transferred early in 1952
to the New York Office. He is supervisor
in the plant accounting department,
which is responsible for policies and pro-
cedures involving all manufacturing
locations and laboratories. Larry is mar-
ried, has two daughters and one future
‘“General.”” Address: 28 Benedict Avenue,
White Plains, New York.

DONALD ‘THOMAS BurTON recently accepted
a position as sales representative for Bauer
and Black and moved his family from
Connecticut to Miami. His address is 1271
Northeast, 197th Street, North Miami
Beach, Florida.

Jack W. WATSON was a guest speaker at
the 50th Anniversary meeting in June of
the Louisville Advertising Club of Louis-
ville. Jack, who is director of public re-
lations and advertising for Kaiser Alum-
inum and Chemical Corporation, has
traveled extensively throughout — the
United States and neighboring countries
supervising national advertising campaigns
and company relations programs. Jack

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

has been with Kaiser since 1946 and lives
in Orinda, California.

4] WILLIAM BUCHANAN has_ recently
become assistant professor of political
science at the University of Southern
California. Formerly Bill had been on the
faculty and research staff of Mississippi
State College, engaged principally in pub-
lic opinion research.

GEORGE L. GASsMAN recently joined the
firm of Modern-Woodmanse Manufactur-
ing Division of George Getz Corporation
and is in charge of production control and
some of the purchasing. Address: 1177 W.
Stephenson Street, Freeport, Illinois.

Rosert E. LEE was recently elected Presi-
dent of the Georgia State College for
Women at Milledgeville by unanimous
vote of the State Board of Regents. “Buzz”
was formerly dean of instruction at Berry
College near Rome.

Guy O. KELLER, M.D., is practicing general
surgery in Charlotte, North Carolina,
where his address is 217 North Dotger
Avenue, Charlotte 7, North Carolina.

JAMES R. MCCONNELL went back on active
duty with the Air Force during the Korean
emergency as a lieutenant colonel, senior
pilot. Now Jim is treasurer and _ sales
manager for the Globe Steel Abrasive
Company in Mansfield, Ohio. He _ has
three children, two boys and a girl.

RICHARD W. SMITH, a member of the
City Council of Staunton, Virginia, since
1954, was elected vice-mayor of Staunton,
and vice-president of the council in Sep-
tember: He 18 a practicing attorney in
that city.

4? ROBERT F. CAMPBELL, editorial

writer for the Winston-Salem Journal
and Sentinel, has been awarded a Nieman
Fellowship for a year’s study at Harvard
University. Bob is one of eleven news-
papermen chosen from this country. Of
the hundreds of applications received
each year for the Nieman Foundation
from newspapermen all over the United
States, a maximum of twelve fellows are
chosen in addition to five foreign news-
men who are apointed associate fellows.
Bob joined the editorial board of the
Journal and Sentinel two years ‘ago.

DANIEL C. Lewis, of 3701 Manton Drive,
Lynchburg, was appointed controller of
Lynchburg Foundry Company on Janu-
ary 1, 1956. Also; he was elected to the
board of directors of Lynchburg Guidance
Center and to the board of the Lynch-
burg chapter of Red Cross.

KENNETH C. CLENDANIEL is serving as di-
rector of public relations for the Clear
Creek Baptist School in Pineville, Ken-
tucky. A graduate of the Southern Bap-

FALL 1956

tist “Theological Seminary in Louisville,
Ken spent 12 years in the pastorate be-
fore joining the Clear Creek faculty last
August. He has four children, three girls
and a boy.

ANDREW S. LANIER moved to Kewanee,
Wisconsin, a year ago and writes that he
recently moved into brand-new _ offices
in the Kewanee Clinic.

EvAN A. Curiss is practicing law as a mem-
ber of the firm of Gordon, Feinblatt and
Rothman in the American Building.
Baltimore 2, Maryland. Evan was in
Lexington during Finals to see his brother,
ARISTIDES ALEVIZATOS, graduate with the
Class of 1956.

WILLIAM L. BRUCE is manager of the De-
velopment Department of Goodyear’s
Swedish subsidiary, “Goodyear Gumm:
Fabriks AB.” Bill made two trips to
the states within the past year, one with
his family on regular home leave, and

another quick trip with his wife because
of her mother’s death. He was unable to
pay a visit to the campus but hopes to
do so two years from now on his next
home leave. Address: Gamla Ovagen 7A,
Norrkoping, Sweden.

C. Tom GARTEN is assistant general man-
ager of WSAZ, Inc., in Huntington, West
Virginia. In March ‘Tom was elected sec-
retary-treasurer of the West Virginia
Broadcasters Association. He served as
Regional Agent for the Huntington area
in the 1955-56 Alumni Fund campaign.

43 CHARLES ‘THOMAS SARDESON is the

author of Rediscovering the Words of
Faith, which explains “the origins of the
‘historic vocabulary of the faith and study
of the significance and meaning of the key
words, showing why each is essential to
the Christian religion.” Charles is pastor

 

A new book by Vircit CARRING-
TON JONES, °30, was published on
September 27, “Gray Ghosts and
Rebel Raiders,” the story of guer-
rilla warfare during the Civil War.

This is the third book by Pat in
twelve years—the others were “‘Ran-
ger Mosby” and “The Hatfields and
the McCoys.” |

Pat is a journalism graduate here,
and went to Huntsville, Alabama,
to work as city editor on the Times
from 1931 to 1937. Then he was a
reporter for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch for four years, going later

to the Washington (D. C.) Evening
Star and the Washington bureau of
the Wall Street Journal. He was
executive secretary to Virginia’s
Governor William Tuck in 1946.
For the past ten years, he has been
manager of the Curtis Publishing
company office in Washington. He
is married and the father of a boy
and girl.

Pat's story, reconstructed from
diaries, letters, and regimental his-
tories, is an exciting account of the
incredible adventures of Confed-
erate guerrilla leaders and_ their
daring efforts to prevent the North-
ern hordes from sweeping through
the South.

Silently and boldly the small
bands of partisans would descend
from the mountains, attack the
enemy, then... disappear. . They
snatched couriers to learn of Union
movements and plans; they de-
stroyed bridges and disrupted rail-
road service; they stole through
picket lines and attacked sleeping
camps. They even kidnapped three
Northern generals from their beds,
almost without firing a shot.

Historian Bruce Catton wrote the
introduction to Pat’s book, which
is published at $4.50 by Henry
Holt and company.

23

 

of the First Lutheran Church, Carlisle.
Pennsylvania. Prior to this position, he
held pastorates in Buffalo, New York, and
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Larry W. GALLOWAY is manager of
Baugh and Sons Company in New Bern,
North Carolina. He has five children, four
girls and a boy. Address: Box 134, Bridge-
ton, North Carolina.

ROBERT FRANCIS JOHNSON is Assistant
Professor of Biblical Languages and
Biblical Theology this fall at the Epis-
copal Theological Seminary of the South-
west at Austin. New address: 106 West
gend Street, Austin, Texas.

q f DAviIp RUSSELL was awarded his

master of arts degree from Ohio State
University in convocation on August 31.

Rossins L. Gates has been appointed in-
structor in government for the academic
year 1956-57 at Trinity College. Bob
has been on the faculty of political science
at Columbia University, where he is com-
pleting the requirements for his doctor’s
degree. He received his master’s degree
from Columbia in June of last year.

Robert B. ‘TAyYLor, manager of the Lynch-
burg realty company of Forehand and
Taylor for the past five years, is the first
president of the new firm of ‘Taylor
Brothers, Inc., which was formed when
the Forehand half interest of the con-
cern was purchased by the ‘Taylor-
owned Stevens Lumber Company, which
owned the other half interest. Among
the officers in the new company are CECIL
W. TAYLOR, ’29, vice-president, and JAMES
D. ‘TAYLOR, ‘41, treasurer.

FREDERICK ROWE has accepted an appoint-
ment as assistant professor of psychology
at Randolph-Macon Woman’s college in
Lynchburg. :

~Dr. ROLAND P. ERNST is practicing radiol-

ogy in St. Louis, following three years of
training at the Mayo Clinic. He has three
children, two’ boys and a girl. “Address:
3720 Washington Boulevard, St. Louis,
Missouri.

G5 Roy DRAKE WITTE is a representa-

tive for Murphy Paint Corporation in

24

 

Enthusiasm and hard work for a new church for the Westminster Presbyterian church
in Waynesboro, Virginia, were furnished by Washington and Lee alumni and wives.
They are, left to right, the Rev. JOHN A. WOMELDORF, 83> minister; Mrs. WOMELDORF;

Woopson GILLOcK, °32; Mrs. J. FRED Cook; Mr. Cook,

Washington, D. C. Roy is married, has two
children, a son and daughter, and lives at
402 Great Falls Road, Rockville, Maryland.

“6 Dr. MATHEW EUGENE O'KEEFE

received a-master of science degree in
radiology from the University of Min-
nesota on July 12, 1956. Mat is now at
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester.

GrorcE B. HALL, JR., is a TV technician
for Tiny TV in Hampton, Virginia, where
his address is 248 Harris Creek Road.
George has two daughters, Holley Lee,
who is three, and Linda Gay, who is a
year old.

A home in the middle of the Niagara
River is what Epwin S. PickeTT and his
wife own. It’s a new one on Grand Island,
midway between Niagara Falls and Buf-
falo. Ed has recently been elected a di-
rector of his firm, Lipsett and Hill, Inc.,
with offices in the Crosby Building, Buf-
falo 2, New York.

FREDERICK S. HOLLEY writes that he is still
assistant Sunday editor of the Norfolk
Virginian-Pilot. Recently Fred was elected
secretary of the Southern District Council,
American Newspaper Guild.

q & RAYMOND E. FREED is practicing

law in Waynesboro, Virginia, as a partner
in the firm of Edmunds and Freed, 531
West Main Street.

33; and GENE JOHNSON, °33.

B. C. ToLiey, JR., associated with the
law firm of John E. Larson has_ been
practicing in Washington, D.C., special-
izing in estate, probate and trust matters
along with a general practice. Prior to
his affiliation with John E. Larson, Benton
was Trial Attorney with the Civil Division
of the Department of Justice and also an
attorney with the Federal Communica-
tions Commission.

JAcK PircHerR has moved from New York
City to join the law department of West-
inghouse and work primarily on defense
problems. His new headquarters is Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania.

PAUL G. CAVALIERE Was Sworn in as assist-
ant corporation counsel for the city of
New Britain, Connecticut on May 1, 1956.
Paul is a partner in the law firm of
Ericson, Politis and Gleason with offices
in the Municipal Building. He has two_
sons.

GEorGE C. DUFFIELD is engaged in the
practice of law in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia. George has two children, Curtis,
age four, and Kathy, age one.

GLENN R. TOoTHMAN, JR., has been prac-
ticing law in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania,
since June, 1949, and is also serving as
instructor in Government and Business
Law at Waynesburg College, His son,
Farley Dana, was born in June, 1955.

Larry B. WALES, JR., is associated with
J. C. Wheat and Company as manager

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

of their Norfolk offices. This past Febru-
ary the firm moved into new and expand-
ed offices at 15 Selden Arcade.

James M. BALLENGEE is practicing law
in Charleston, West Virginia, where he
is active in the Junior Bar Conference
of the American Bar Association. Jim is
chairman of that organization’s Legal
Institutes Committee for 1956 and heads
the drive for membership in the Fourth
Circuit on behalf of the Junior Bar Con-
ference.

GEORGE E. Haw, Jr., who entered private
practice with his father soon after grad-
uation, is located in the Travelers Build-
ing, Richmond, Virginia. George resides
near PAUL SHUFORD, ’43, and quite often
sees REG PETTUS, ’48, HANK FORESMAN, 748,
and EUGENE MARABLE, ’44, who was re-
cently appointed Assistant Police and
Juvenile Court Judge in Petersburg, Vir-
ginia.

HALLER JACKSON, who is associated with
the law firm of Tucker, Bronson & Mar-
tin, Shreveport, Louisiana, was recently
elected Chairman of the Junior Bar Sec-
tion of the Louisiana Bar Association.

KENNETH COGHILL, associated with the law
firm of Conley, Thomas and Legg,
Charleston, West Virginia, reports that
GEORGE BLACKBURN, °47-L, and CHARLIE
BLACKBURN, ’49, were up from North Caro-
lina on a case not long ago. Ken writes
that he often comes into contact with
GEORGE DUFFIELD, ‘48, Britt WATTs, ’48,
and Bos Smiru, ’48, and that Big Bill is
planning to shout “Ultra Vires” the first
chance he gets in a case that they have
against each other.

FRANK J. DrLoreto, City and Police Court
Judge for New Britain, Connecticut, last
year was named “Outstanding Young Man
of 1955” for New Britain. Frank is in the
private practice of law and has_ been
president of the New Britain Board of
Education since 1952. He is married and
has two children, a son, Mark, and a
daughter, Michelle.

4 9 THE Rev. PHILLIP MorRTON GRrES-

HAM 1s the new rector of Christ Episcopal
church, Martinsville, Virginia. He pre-
viously served as associate rector of St.
James church in Richmond.

G.- MM. Mize”. Maro, -Jx., recently
joined the Mt. Airy (North Carolina)
Chair Company, after seven years as field
sales representative with Allis Chalmers
Manufacturing Company.

FRANK CARTER, JR., is a salesman for a
commercial real estate company, Draper-
Owens, in Atlanta, Georgia, where he lives
at 1848 Flagler Avenue, N.E., with his
wife and two sons, Frank and Ben, ages
five and a half and two anda half, re-
spectively.

FALL 1956

THomas S. Hook is now advertising and
public relations manager for Penco Cor-
poration, Baltimore 24, Maryland. Tom is
also 1956-57 vice-president for the Balti-
more Ski Club and a member of the
Paint & Powder Club.

GrorsE W. ReEeEp, Jr., has been in the
private practice of law since 1949. He is
married and has four children and main-
tains his office in the Shenandoah Build-
ing, Roanoke. He lives at 1640 Persinger
Road, S.W., Roanoke, Virginia.

JAMEs B. CHIDSEY, JR., is working in his
father’s food brokerage concern in Rome,
Georgia. His daughter, Sallie Berrien, was
born June 17, 1955. New address: 32 Vine-
land Road, Rome, Georgia.

50 Vic MARLER has resigned his posi-

tion as football and track coach at Maury
High School in Norfolk to teach English
in Niles, Michigan. Vic, who was at
Maury for three years, will work on his
doctorate in education at Michigan State.

James T. TRUNDLE has been transferred
from Washington to Philadelphia where
he is manager of the United Air Lines
city ticket offices. Jim has been with
United Air Lines for about five years. He
served as regional agent for the Alexan-
dria area in the 1955-56 Alumni Fund
campaign.

RicHARD E. Hopces, Jr. has ben ap-
pointed public relations director of Liller,
Neal and Battle, advertising and public
relations agency of Atlanta and New York.
Prior to joining the agency, Richard was
a member of the news staff of the Atlanta
Constitution. He came to Atlanta after
serving as a reporter and sports writer
for the Ashland, Kentucky, Daily Inde-
pendent. 7

RICHARD DABNEY CHAPMAN received his

M.A. degree from Syracuse University on
June 4, 1956. Dabney and Nancy Mc-
Arthur Echols were married last Decem-
ber.

Fred T. MOFFATT, JR., is now pastor of
the First Baptist Church in Paris, Ken-
tucky, after having served for two years
as pastor of the Broadway Baptist Church
in Louisville. Fred writes that he plans
to begin work on his doctorate in history
at the University of Kentucky this fall.

V. O. BARNARD, JR., is president of Ken-
tucky Truck Eanes, Inc., in Frankfort.
“Barney” is married and has three chil-
dren, two daughters and a son. Address:
115 Campbell Street, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Rocer H. Mupp left Richmond’s Radio
Station WRNL in May, 1956, to return to
Washington, where he now covers Capitol
Hill for WTOP-CBS. Address: 3216 Le-
alnd Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

51 W. H. KY Le, Jr., since March, 1954,

has been in Indianapolis, where he is dis-

 

First Ly. jJoun, 5. HANSEL, -JR., '52,...0f
Monterey, Virginia, is interning at Fitz-
simons Army Hospital, Denver. He won
his medical degree last June from the
University of Virginia School of Medicine.

trict sales representative for Pickands,
Mather and Company of Cleveland. Ad-
dress: 956 Ellenberger Parkway, Indian-
apolis, Indiana.

RoBERT C. CAREY was sworn in as assist-
ant United States Attorney for the Eastern
District of New York on April 2, 1956.
Address: ‘Two Grace Court, Brooklyn 1,
New York.

RicHAarRD R. McDONALD, who is with the
United States Geological Survey, has re-
turned from a foreign project in Cuba
and is presently on a domestic assign-
ment in Washington. Dick’s address is
10104 Georgia Avenue, Silver Spring,
Maryland.

JOHN RENDER BALDWIN joined the Group
Division of Pilot Life Insurance Company
of Greensboro, North Carolina, this year.
In April he became Group Manager at
Raleigh, where his address is Apartment
R, Alenwood Apartments.

ROBERT ‘TURNER PITTMAN is_ currently
doing graduate work at the University of
North Carolina. Last summer Bob worked
aS a reporter for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch.

JAMES HuNTER LANE, Jr., has completed
his tour of duty with the United States
Marines and is now practicing law in
Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

RICHARD DOLMAN DaAvis writes from Har-
lingen, Texas, that he is associated with
his father in the firm of Pittman and
Davis.

JAMES FRANCIS GILLIVAN is associated with

the firm of Aiester G. Furman Company.

25

 

Address P. O. Box 120, Greenville, South
Carolina.

‘THOMAS PACKARD WINBORNE writes from
Cincinnati, Ohio, that he is now work-
ing for Proctor & Gamble in the District
Sales Office, and likes it very much.

Norwood A. “Woopy” McDANIEL has
three children and is a general insurance
broker in Pittsburgh. “Woody” reports
that he is still interested in football and
has received offers from the Canadian
League and the Baltimore Colts but is
turning them down because of his business.

52 Ropert A. MASLANSKY graduated

from the Medical School of Columbia
University last June and is now interning
at Minneapolis General Hospital. Bob’s
address is Minneapolis General Hospital,
Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Pvr. Kennetu E. Fox, a radar plotter with
a field artillery battalion in the Eighth
Infantry Division, is now stationed in
Germany. His wife, Beverly, lives at 242
Warrington Drive, Rochester, New York.
He is a 1955 graduate in law at the
University of Virginia.

Hetmur H. Huser, after his discharge
from the Army, attended the University
of Munich, Germany, for three semesters.

   

   

These two Russian soldiers seem friendly enough to HOwarb
GELLIS, “54-Law, as they pose in the Soviet “Garden of Re-
membrance” at Berlin. GELLIS is a troop information and edu-
cation specialist with the 58th Evacuation Hospital in Germany.

26

Hank is now an export salesman trainee
for Armstrong Cork Company in Lancas-
ter, Pennsylvania, where his address is
529 North Queen Street.

HAROLD N. Hitt, JR., in the law school of
Emory University, is employed part time
by the law firm of Gambrell, Harlan,
Russell, Moye and Richards. Hal intends
to practice in Atlanta after he graduates
in 1957.

EpwARD C. DARLING was released from ac-
tive duty with the Navy in December,
1955, after three years service aboard the
destroyer escort Coates. Pete is now em-
ployed at First and Merchants Bank in
Richmond.

F. Netson Licur of Route 2, Chatham,
Virginia, is Trial Justice of Pittsylvania
County, where he is in the general prac-
tice of law.

Louis R. PUTNAM graduated from the
Columbia University College of Physicians
and Surgeons in June, 1956, when he
received his M.D. degree. In. July, Lou
started interning at Cincinnati General
Hospital, where his main interest is in-
ternal medicine.

Henry I. WILLETT, JR., recently was ap-
pointed principal of Hodges Manor
Elementary School in Norfolk County,

His new address is Box 247, Churchland, |

Virginia.

Vicror E. BEHRENS, JR., after having
served overseas two years with the United
States Navy, is now residing at 3329 West-
minster, Dallas, ‘Texas. Vic is employed in

the: National Advertising Department of,

the ‘Dallas Times-Herald.

FRAZIER REAMS, JR., iS practicing law in
Toledo, Ohio, where his address is 2025
Richmond Road. Frazier graduated in
1955 from the University of Michigan
Law School.

Epwarb W. THomaAs has been with Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Beane as an
“account executive” for three years. Ed’s
new address is 290 Board of Trade Build-
ing, Chicago 4, [linois.

EpWARD B. SICKLE, JR., is a contracts rep-
resentative with Aeronca Manufacturing
Corporation in Middletown, Ohio. Aer-
onca does subcontracting for plane parts
for Lockheed, Boeing and other large
plane manufacturers. ‘Ted has two sons,
ages three and one. Address: 2817 Moor-
man Drive.

GEORGE H. GREER of Owensboro, Ken-
tucky, is in business with his father in
the oil well supply business. He and _ his
wife Ann recently purchased a new home
at 21 Griffith Avenue and are fairly well
settled now. ‘The Greers have an eight-
een-month-old daughter, Sara Robin, who,
George says, “rules the household.’ He
writes “the Army has been kind to me and
I am still in the ranks of the civilians.”

SECOND LT. WirLtiAM H. WALLACE Is serv-
ing in the office of the Staff Judge Advo-
cate, Vance Air Force Base in Oklahoma.
He received his license to practice law in
Kentucky last September and was called
into the service shortly after that.

53 Europe will be Pvr. JOHN M.

SHAW’s home for the next few months, as
his 8th Infantry Division replaces a group
in Germany. John is a chaplain’s clerk in
headquarters company. His wife, Ann,
is living at 714 S. Court, Opelousas, Louis-
iana, while he is overseas.

Roy ALEXANDER Craic of 400 South Lake-
shore Boulevard, Lake Wales, Florida, re-
ceived the degree of bachelor of laws
from Harvard University on June 14, 1956.

   

“Soldier of the Month” GrorcrE E. ARATA, JR., °51, of the 5zst
Medical Group in Germany receives a certificate from COL.
WALTER H. STEVENSON, group commander. George is an x-ray
technician and training specialist at 31st Mobile Army Hospital.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Joun Davin Macurre is now acting di-
rector of the International Student Center
at Yale University, with responsibility for
470 foreign nationals studying at the
New Haven school. He spent the year
following his graduation from Washington
and Lee in Edinburgh, Scotland, as a
Fulbright scholar, and returned to Yale
Divinity School in 1954, where he won the
Oliver E. Daggett High Scholarship Prize.
He was graduated summa cum laude in
June, 1956, having maintained an all-A
average during his three-year theological
course, and won the Day Fellowship for
continuing his studies toward the Ph.D.
degree. He was married to Miss Billie
Parrish .of Smithfield, North Carolina,
in 1953, and they became parents of their
first child, John Mark on September 8,
1956. His address is 406 Prospect Street,
New Haven 11, Connecticut.

STEPHEN FRANK LICHTENSTEIN iS a cum
laude graduate of New York University
Law School in June, 1956, and is now with
the law firm of Warren and Stein, Broad
Street Bank Building, Trenton 8, New

Jersey.

JAMES ARTHUR FOLtTz, III, received the de-
eree of bachelor of laws from Harvard
University on June 14, 1956. Jim’s ad-
dress is 17 Bedlow Avenue, Newport,
Rhode Island.

JoHN B. WHEELER was graduated from
the General Theological Seminary in New
York this past May. Jack is now working
on the staff of Saint Bartholomew’s Epis-
copal Church, Baltimore, where his ad-
dress is 4908 Stafford Street.

I. M. SHEFFIELD is attending the Harvard
Business School and hopes to graduate
next June. Home address: 3651 ‘Tuxedo
Road, Atlanta, Georgia.

BENTZ B. Howarp, Jr., is at Princeton
University working on his Ph.D. thesis in
physical chemistry and expects to finish
this fall. Bentz received his M.A. from
Princeton in June, 1955. He held a na-
tional Science Foundation Fellowship for
two years and a University fellowship this
year. Address: Frick Chemical Laboratory,
Princeton, New Jersey.

JoHN WILLIAM Dopp, Jr., completed two
years of active Naval service in August,
1955, after which he become employed in
the management training program of
Compbell Soup Company, General Offices
in Camden, New Jersey, as assistant to
the general promotion manager. In March,
1956, John became assistant to the dir-
rector of advertising.

KYLE WARD WALDEN, after a two year tour
in the Army is now working as a junior
engineer for the Sun Oil Company, in
Morgan City, Louisiana.

FRANK A. “Moose” McCormick writes that
he is now in the final stage of aviation
training at Corpus Christi, Texas. He is
flying the FoF-2 Panther jet aircraft and

FALL 1956

hopes to be assigned to a Marine fighter
squadron on the west coast after gradua-
tion.

CLYDE S. McCaLt, Jr., has been separated
from the Army and is planning to enter
the University of ‘Texas to study geology.

Joun R. LAwson, Jr., has been in the
Army since October, 1955, and is  sta-
tioned at Fort Eustis where he is doing
court martial work in a courts and boards
section. After his separation John plans
to return to Tampa to practice law. Dur-
ing his army tour John has been living
in Williamsburg with Dave Berlinghof,
Walk Jones and Walt Degree, all of the
Class of 1955.

Harry A. Fozzarb was graduated in June
from the Washington University School
of medicine in St. Louis. Harry plans to
intern at Grace-New Haven Hospital in
New Haven, Connecticut.

Jarostav A. “JAasHA” DRABEK, who is at
George Washington University Law
School, lives at 3460-39th Street, N.W.,
Washington 16, D.C.

JouHN J. SCHUMACHER left Ohio last sum-
mer and is now located in Chicago, where
he is Chicago District Sales Manager for
American Welding and Manufacturing
Company, Building Products Division of
Warren, Ohio. He, his wife, and daugh-
ter, Mary Martha, are living in a new
suburb of Chicago.

PFC THomas BOXLEY PERKINS is a mem-
ber of the Southern Area Command
Honor Guard in Germany. Members of
the honor guard compete for the job
and perform at all official functions. ‘Tom,
a redeployment specialist with the com-
mand’s adjutant section, arrived in Europe
in March, 1955.

5 4 KimBER L. WHITE opened his of-

fice at 244 Warwick Road, Warwick, Vir-
ginia, for the general practice of law on
June 1, 1956. Formerly, Kimber was asso-
ciated with the Newport News law firm of
Murray, Ford, West and Wilkinson, which
he joined after graduation.

KENNETH I. VAN Cort, JR., is working on
market research and development prob-
lems in Europe for the General Aniline
and Film Corporation. Address: 33 Avon
Road, Binghamton, New York.

Ropert P. SMITH, JR., is in his second
year of law at the University of Florida.

SeconpD Ltr. Roperr J. BLair has been
stationed at the Signal Depot at Sacramen-
mento, California, since June, 1955. He is
Depot Management Engineer and looks
forward to remaining there for the rest
of his tour of duty. He says his Washing-
ton and Lee Industrial Management
course has really paid off.

SECOND LY. BERNARD S. STEINER, Jr. on
active duty with the Army since April
1, 1955, is currently stationed at the
Brocklyn Army ‘Terminal in New York.
Home address: 2600 Canterbury Road,
Birmingham, Alabama.

PFC Joun M. Spence, ILI, recently took
part in the Army field training tests near
Ulm, Germany. John, a radio operator in
Battery D of the oth Infantry Division’s
43 Antiaircraft Artillery Battalion, en-
tered the Army in 1954 and received basic
training at Fort Jackson, South Carolina

55 Joun F. Davis is a test officer for

Arctic equipment in the Army. His group
is stationed in Greenland, where Jack
writes that he faces new and challenging
situations every day. His home address is
Ridge Lane, Colonia, New Jersey.

DupLEy ‘THOMAS recently was employed
by Union Carbide and Carbon Corpora-
tion to work in their LAP Instruction Ma-
terial Department.

JoHN A. RUTHERFORD was recently grad-
uated from the Army’s ‘Transportation
School at Fort Eustis, Virginia. John com-
pleted the school’s transportation officer
basic course for officers who recently re-
ceived their commissions.

ROBERT M. CARTER, JR., is no longer ad-.
dressed as Mister but Ensign Carter. He
was graduated from the Navy’s Officer
Candidate School at Newport, Rhode
Island in August, after a four months’
training course.

RAYMOND D. SmirH, JR., who has been
studying at the University of Rennes,
France, for a year, is now back in the
States, where his address is 536 East 79th
Street, New York 21, New York.

THOMAS IrvING Baker, recently graduated
from the Army’s Transportation School at
Fort Eustis, is a movement control train-
ing specialist in the 507th Transportation
Battalion. Prior to entering the army
Tom was an underwriter for the Life
Insurance Company of Virginia.

WILLIAM B. Fray is stationed at Oakland
Army ‘Terminal, Oakland, California. His
home address is 141 Peliso Avenue,
Orange, Virginia.

THOMAS W. RobBiINs, JR., is a medical
student at Duke. He plans to be there
until 1959 when he expects Uncle Sam
to get him for awhile. Address: 2404 Ves-
son Avenue, Apt. 46, Durham.

MicHaAkEL Davis is serving a tour of duty
with the Army and is stationed at Fort
Eustis. He is married and has two daugh-
ters, Debbie and Melissa.

Lr. Lewis Cope, public information officer
at Fort Eustis, Virginia, is now participat-
ing in the resupply of isolated radar sta-

27

 

tions of the “DEW line” in the Eastern

Arctic. He is helping discharge cargo from
ships to stations extending across the
Arctic rim to the Distant Early Warning
line.

CHARLES H. Now Lin of 61 Richardson
Lane, Richardson Park, Wilmington, Dela-
ware, was awarded a master of science de-
gree from Harvard University on June

14, 1956.

Rospert M. CULLERS writes that he was a
radio announcer at Front Royal Station
WFTR last summer and is now a sec-
ond lieutenant in the Marine Corps. He
received his commission in December,
1955, and graduated from basic school
last summer.

WILLIAM W. Davis, JR., and Roserr N.
FISHBURN successfully completed in June
an eighteen-week course in Naval science
subjects at the U. S. Naval Officer Can-
didate School, Newport, Rhode Island.

JOHN W. ENGLISHMAN is currently stationed
with the 9233 Terminal Unit, Seattle
Army ‘Terminal, Supply Division, Seattle,
Washington. Before entering the Army,
John was employed by the Ford Motor
Company, Wyckoff, New Jersey.

Frederic K. EASTER graduated from the
Naval Pre-Flight School, Pensacola, Flor-
ida, in June, 1956. Fred is now assigned
to the Whiting Field Naval Auxiliary Air
Station, Milton, Florida, for primary flight
training.

LT. WILLIAM H. Forrest, JR., is now serv-
ing in the Arctic, assisting in the job of
resupplying isolated radar stations by
ship. He is regularly assigned as a pla-
toon leader at Fort Eustis, Virginia, and
his wife, Joan, lives at 7306 River Drive,
Warwick, Virginia.

BiLt BartscH, who has been studying for
the past year on a Helen Lee Wessel
Fellowship in Foreign Affairs at the Uni-
versity of Virginia Graduate School,
won a scholarship to attend summer
school at the University of Oslo in Nor-
way. This fall, Bill is doing work in in-
ternational finance at the University of
Stockholm, where he has won a Swedish
Government Grant for a year’s study. He
plans to return to U. Va.’s Department
of Foreign Affairs for the term of 1957-58
and finish his work on a Master of Arts

28

 

Lr. WALK Jones, III, ’55, of Memphis, ts
the Aide-de-Camp to Bric. GEN. WILLIAM
B. BUNKER, commander of Transportation
Supply and Maintenance Command in St.
Louis. JONES entered the army, July, 1955.

degree then. His fall address will be:
International Grad. School, University of
Stockholm, Drottninggatan, 120, Stock-
holm.

SECOND LT. GEORGE B. WERTHAN, of Palm-
erton, Pennsylvania, recently was gradu-
ated from the U.S. Army’s ‘Transportation
School at Fort Eustis, Virginia.

Joun M. DuHE, JR., a junior at the Tulane
University School of Law, recently was
elected editor-in-chief of the ‘Tulane
Law Review for the 1956-57 Academic
year. John, who served this year as pres-
ident of “La Societe du Droit Civil,”
Tulane civil law society, had formerly
been awarded honorable mention for the
annual Gertler Law Review award, which
is given for the best casenote written by
a member of the student board of editors
during his first year on the Review.

SECOND Lr. EDWARD COHEN recently was
graduated from the U. S. Army’s Trans-
portation School at Fort Eustis, Vir-
ginia. Home address: 16 Scott Street,
Riverside, New Jersey.

JosepH A. Pontius, his father writes, is
stationed in ‘Tripoli with the U. S. Navy.
His home address is 65 Eshleman Road,
Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Lr. Harry M. HOoutiins of 611 Pujo Street,
Lake Charles, Louisiana, recently was
graduated from the Army’s Transporta-
tion School at Fort Eustis, Virginia, where
he completed the school’s basic course for
officers who recently received their com-
missions. Harry has been in the Army
since last February.

 

After graduation, WILLIAM (BILL) Warp
FARRAR began his employment with the
Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark,
New Jersey in their training program. A
year ago he was called into active serv-
ice in the Navy as. an electronics tech-
nician. He is now serving aboard the
heavy cruiser USS Los Angeles which is in
the Far East as the flagship of Cruiser
Division 5.

5 6 CHARLES L. RICE recently was

graduated from the Army’s Transporta-
tion School at Fort Eustis, Virginia. His
wife, Caroline, is with him at Fort Eustis.

HuGH C. Newron is editor of the News
Service at Carnegie Institute of ‘Tech-
nology. Besides landing this good job after
graduation, he landed Miss Charlotte Wal-
lin, the Alumni News’ efficient managing
editor, and they will be Mr. and Mrs. by
the time this is published.

RICHARD E, JOHNSON recently was assigned
to the 507th ‘Transportation Battalion at
Fort Eustis, Virginia. Richard entered the
Army last January.

WAYNE W. Fow Ler has accepted a position
with the Armstrong Cork Company and
has entered the firm’s Industrial Division
Sales Training Program.

WERNERT J. SCHULER, JR., recently was
graduated from the Army’s ‘Transporta-
tion School at Fort Eustis, Virginia. Wer-
nert completed the school’s transportation
officer basic course for officers who recent-
ly received their commissions.

Three of the ensigns graduated recently
at Newport, Rhode Island, from the 7th
Reserve Officer Candidate Class had Wash-
andton and Lee backgrounds. They were
ROBERT CALLAWAY, Epwarp C. McCartuy,
and J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, all June grad-
uates.

Reno S. Harp, III, is now an assistant
attorney general of Virginia, with offices
in Richmond. He received his bachelor
of arts degree in 1954, and his law de-

gree in 1956.

Joun S. Purtiirs has accepted a position
with the Armstrong Cork Company and
has entered the firm’s Glass and Closure
Division Sales Training Program.

Sam H. Berry of Fort Worth, Texas, has
been graduated from the U.S. Navy’s Of-
ficer Candidate School at Newport, Rhode
Island and is now on active duty with
the Navy.

LANWRENCE ANTHONY, JR., who lives in
Hartsville, South Carolina, recently §ar-
ranged a collection of Greek mementos for
the Coker College library there. Lonnie,
a fine arts graduate, has other promo-
tional exhibits in the offing for the Coker
College library.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

1941

Juttus B. “Gus” StomBock was married
on July 14, 1956 to Mary Louise Dodson
in Fairfax, Virginia. Address: 421 Walnut
Street, Waynesboro, Virginia.

1944

JOHN DosBson SCHOFIELD was married on
June 16, 1956, to Marilyn Jeanne Fosse in
St. Paul, Minnesota.

1945

WALTER FRYE, was married on September
g, 1956, to Ann Hitchcock at Montecito
Presbyterian church. They are now at
home at 2865 Ben Lomond Drive, Santa
Barbara, California, and Walter is teach-
ing in an elementary school.

1950

DaAvip STONESTREET CROYDER was married
on June 30, 1956, to Elinore Wentworth
Brown, in Far Rockaway, Queens, New
York.

JAMEs DALE JOHNSON was married on
September 29, 1956, to Elizabeth Jose-
phine Penn in St. Andrews Church, Roa-
anoke, Virginia. They are living at 521
Shelbourne Towers, Knoxville, ‘Tennessee.

ROBERT NEWTON MACKEY was married to
Florence Gertrude Frenkel on June 7, 1956,
in Galveston, ‘Texas.

PATRICK JAMES FAHEY, JR., was married to
Earleen Grim on November 24, 1955, in
Cumberland, Maryland.

1951

WILLIAM SEBASTIAN Rosasco, III, was mar-
ried to Sue Arden on April 14, 1956. Bill
is vice-president of the Santa Rosa Lum-
ber Company of Pensacola, Florida.

FONTAINE JOHNSON GILLIAM was married
to Nannie Gray Howard on June 29, 1956,
and are at home at 143 Sutherlin Avenue,
Danville, Virginia. Fontaine is the son of
FRANK J. GILLIAM, °17, Dean of Students
at Washington and Lee. ~.

LANDON W. TRIGG was married to Mary
Stoddard Barnard. in February, 1956.
Landon is assistant secretary to Davenport
Insurance Corporation in Richmond, Vir-
ginia. Address: 807 St. Christophers Road.

FALL. 1956

ROBERT EAStTwooD GLENN was married to
Clydenne Agnes Reinhard on March 16,
1956, at Saint Sebastian’s Chapel, Frank-
furt-on-Main, Germany.

1952

WILLIAM ‘THOMAS Pace, III, was married
to Helen Priscilla Ganas on June 30, 1956,
in Lexington, Virginia. Bill was graduated
from Washington and Lee last June.

PuHiLir ROBBINS was married on June
23, 1956, to Patricia Joan Forlifer in Bal-
timore, Maryland. Phil is on the staff of
the Baltimore Evening Sun.

1953

Jack Dopp and Janet Chalupa_ were
married Sept. 15, 1956, in Philadelphia.
Best man was BiLL McHENry, 754, and
usher was JACK DELAHUNTY, 753. Jack is
with Campbell Soup Company, and he
and his bride live at Apt. 214-A, Had-
don Hills Apartments, Pyle Avenue, Had-
donfield, New Jersey.

1954

HoracE DALE Doutry was married to
Madeline Carole Gillespie on August 31,
1956, in Lexington, Virginia. The couple
will live in Richmond, where Horace
will attend Union Theological Seminary.

RicHARD T. HARBISON was married to
Cornelia Bostick of Greenville, Missis-
sippi, on July 14, 1956. GrorcE F. May-
NARD, 53, MARVIN P. MEADORS, 755, and
EpGAR G. GIVHAN, °56, were members of
the wedding party. The couple will live in
Richmond, where Dick is attending Union
Theological Seminary.

1955.

ENSIGN JOSEPH BANKS, JR., was married on
July 28, 1956, to Anne Reuther Deck in
Pelham Manor, New York. Parrick D.
SULLIVAN, 54, Was best man.

HAROLD DUANE St. JOHN, JR., was married
to Nancy Jayne Golding on September 8,
1956, in the Central Presbyterian Church,
Summit, New Jersey.

1956

Jamiz Mays Howe, was married on
September 8, 1956, to Nancy Ellen Brown,
at the Christ Episcopal Church in Little
Rock, Arkansas.

SIDMOND JOEL KapLAN was married to
Barbara Bing on June 30, 1956, in Shaker
Heights, Ohio.

STUART LAWRENCE WEINERTH was married
on September 1, 1956 to Nancy Eleanor
Secrist in Buena Vista’s Baptist Church.
Larry is in the Marines and is stationed
at Quantico.

WILLIAM HUNTER FISHBACK was married
on August 24, 1956, to Sara Jeanette
Moore, and they are making their home
in Richmond, Virginia.

 

1941

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES BENAGH RICHARDSON,
Jr., are the parents of a second daughter,
Jane Marshall born July 21, 1955.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD LEVIN are the
proud parents of a son, John de Creny
Levin, born July 30, 1956, in Norfolk,
Virginia.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. MCCAUSLAND are
the parents of a daughter, Sallie Carroll,
born July 4, 1956. “Bud” served as reg-
ional Agent for the Lynchburg area in
the 1955-36 Alumni Fund campaign.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. ELiuiotr ScHick are the
parents of a daughter, Karen Beth, born
June 23, 1956, in New York City.

Mr. and Mrs. STUART SMITH, JR., are the
parents of a son, Brion Carleton, born
April 6, 1956.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. RoBertT EUGENE Burariss, III,
are the parents of a son, Robert Agnor,
born July 11, 1956, in Anderson, South
Carolina.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. CiiFrorp B. BEASLEY, Jr.,
are now sporting a little man around the
house, Cyrus, at 2844 Overhill Road,
Birmingham, Alabama.

1947

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BooTH MCNEIL are
the parents of a son, Robert Booth, Jr.

born June 7, 1956, in Richmond, Virginia.

1948

Mr. and Mrs. Frep L. Rusu are the par-
ents of a son, Fred L. Rush, Jr., born
August 4, 1956. They are living in Norfolk,
Virginia.

“9

I .r,rtltrstr,Cit«i«Cssié####O##O## (4...

 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM WILSON BURTON
are the parents of a son, William Kirk Bur-
ton, born May 14, 1956. Bill received his
B.S. degree in mechanical engineering
from Carnegie Institute of ‘Technology in
1954 and since that time he has been a
design engineer in Gas ‘Turbine Engin-
eering at Westinghouse Electric Corpora-
tion. Address: 120 Friendship Road, Drexel
Hill, Pennsylvania.

1649

Mr. and Mrs. BEN EMMeT GRIMM are the
parents of a second son, Kevin ‘Thomas
Grimm, born March 5, 1956. Ben is now
Reference and Reading Librarian at
the Monclair, New Jersey, Public Library.
In 1950 he received his M.S. degree from
the School of Library Service at Columbia
University. Since then he has worked with
public libraries of Brooklyn, Detroit, and
Fair Lawn, New Jersey. He was appointed
to his present post at Montclair in June,
1955:

Mr. and Mrs. JAcK B. PORTERFIELD, JR.,
are the parents of a third son, Leslie
Hornsby, born June 21, 1956, in Birming-
ham, Alabama. Jack served as agent for
the law class of 1949 in the 1955-56 Alum-
ni Fund Campaign.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. SUNDERLAND are
the parents of a son, Charles Thomas,
born April 16, 1956. Address: 8711 Mea-
dow Lane, Kansas City 13, Missouri.

Mr. and Mrs. RicHArD A. HuRXTHAL. are
the parents of a son, Thomas Lee Hurx-
thal, born June 15. 1956, in Erie, Penn-
sylvania.

Mr. and Mrs. Horace FULTON SUTHERLAND
are the parents of a daughter, Julia Kath-
erine, born July 11, 1956. Horace is prac-
ticing law in Galax, Virginia.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. ALVIN NICHOLLS WARTMAN
are the parents of a son, Franklin Secord
Wartman, II, born July 26, 1956. Alvin
is practicing law in Las Vegas, Nevada.

Mr. and Mrs. PARK Bowie SMITH are the
parents of a son, Park Bowie, Jr., born
January 24, 1956. Park is employed as
an account executive with Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner and Beane in Charleston,
South Carolina, where his address is 12514
Tradd Street.

Mr. and Mrs. SoL WACHTLER are the par-
ents of a second daughter, Marjorie Dru,
born July 19, 1956. Address: 35 Split
Rock Road, Kings Point, Long Island,
New York.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. Ciirton T. Hunt, Jr., are
the parents of a second daughter, Mary

30

Jean, born August 10, 1956, in Charlotte,
North Carolina, where Ted is practicing
law.

Mr. and Mrs. Kenr RicG are the parents
of a second son, John Randolph, born
August 2, 1956. Kent Sutton is now two
years old.

Mr. and Mrs. ALeEx B. MOoHLER, II, are
the parents of a daughter, their first child,
Dorothy Ann, born June 4, 1956. Alex is
associated with Mexa Motors, a Chrysler-
Plymouth-Fargo agency, in Mexico City.

1953

Dr. and Mrs. W. C. MIrEHER are the par-
ents of a son, William David, born Sep-
tember 14, 1956. Daddy has been called
to active duty in the USAF Medical Ser-
vice as a Captain, and is stationed at the
Base Hospital, Ellsworth Air Force Base,
Rapid City, South Dakota.

Mr. and Mrs. Rosert E. SMITH are the
parents of a daughter, Sharon Margaret,
born July 25, 1956, in Baltimore, Mary-
land.

Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT S. FALK, JR., are the
parents of a son, Herbert S., Jr., born
August 17, 1956. Address: 1432 Whelden
Place, Greensoro, North Carolina.

Mr. and Mrs. Ropert HOwE THOMAS are
the parents of a son, Robert Howe, Jr.,
born June 18, 1956. New Address: 310
Labarre Road, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Mr. and Mrs. C. A. BARCELLONA are
the parents of a daughter, Doreen Ann,
born July 17, 1956. Address: 50 Spencer
Avenue, Garfield, New Jersey.

1956

Mr. and Mrs. WILLARD IRVING WALKER are
the parents of a son, Allan Jefferson
Walker, born August 28, 1956. They live
at 813 Locust Avenue, Charlottesville,
Virginia.

 

1890

CHARLES ARTHUR’ WooTEN - died Decem-
ber 25, 1955. His home was in Helena,
Arkansas.

1897

WILLIAM J. LINDENBERGER died May 1,
1956, in San Francisco, California.

1904

THE REVEREND Dr. JOHN HENRY Day, for
28 years pastor of the Seventh Baptist
Church in Baltimore, died on May a2,
1956, after a brief illness. A law graduate
of the Class of 1904, Dr. Day practiced
law in Norfolk for seven years before
entering Crozer ‘Theological Seminary in
Chester, Pennsylvania. In 1914 he received
the degree of bachelor of divinity from
Crozer and the degree of master of
theology a year later. After a pastorate
of two years at Ridley Park, Pennsylva-
nia, Dr. Day went to Calvary Baptist
Church in Yonkers, New York, and in
1922 he became pastor of Memorial Bap-
tist Church, Philadelphia. During his
minister at Philadelphia, Dr. Day re-
ceived the degree of doctor of divinity
from Washington and Lee. In 1926 he
assumed the pastorate of the Seventh
Baptist Church in Baltimore, a post he
held until his retirement in 1954. He
was a member of the Masonic Order and
Chaplain of the Virginians of Maryland,
an organization which last year bestowed
upon him the Medallion of Honor in
recognition of his “‘service to his fellow

99

man.

1908

WILLIAM PoweELL Hooper died on Sep-
tember 5, 1956 in Huntington, West Vir-
ginia. A native of Buckingham County,
Virginia, Dr. Hooper was pastor emeri-
tus at Highlawn Presbyterian Church and
retired instructor in Bible at Marshall
College.

1910

I. VAUGHN Putz died on June 28, 1956,
in Alexandria, Virginia, after a long ill-
ness. A native of Rockbridge County, Mr.
Pultz had retired last December after
more than forty years in the education
field. At the time of his retirement, Mr.
Pultz was treasurer of Alexandria’s George
Washington High School, where he had
taught since 1938.

MARION J. PuTNAm died June 25, 1956, in
Clifton Forge, Virginia.

1912

‘THOMAS PRESTON TRIGG, Jr., died on Feb-
ruary 2, 1956, in Petersburg, Virginia, af-
ter a prolonged illness. Prior to his re-
tirement in 1955, Mr. Trigg had been
associated with the Los Angeles Power and
Light Company and had since made his
home in Virginia. He is survived by a
twin brother, WILLIAM WHITE TRIGG, ’12,
of Petersburg, and a nephew, Dr. W. W.
Trice, JR., “49, of Reidsville, North Car-
olina.

LAWRENCE EUGENE GOLDMAN died of a
heart attack on September 3, 1956. His
home was in Kansas City, Missouri.

Joun N. BraApbLey died on August 7, 1956,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

at his home in Silver Spring, Maryland.
Prior to his retirement in 1954, Mr.
Bradley had been general attorney for
the Chesapeake and Potomac ‘Telephone
Company since 1929.

FRANK PATTERSON BurTON died on July
29, 1956, at his home in Stuart, Virginia.
A leading figure in Virginia Democratic
politics for more than go years, Senator
Burton had been a member of the Vir-
ignia State Senate since 1948. At one
time he was mayor of Stuart and com.
monwealth’s attorney for Patrick Coun-
ty. He is survived by two sons and a
daughter. His son FRANK, Jr., ’49, is with
the State Department in Washington.

1914

Bruck SEpron died September 25 in St.
Louis, Missouri, after a prolonged illness.
He is survived by his widow, a son, and
a daughter.

1917

Wittie Lee Joyce died of a heart attack
on June 9, 1956, at his home in Stuart,
Virginia. A former town attorney for
Stuart and commonwealth’s attorney for
Patrick County, Mr. Joyce had practiced
law since 1917 in Virginia and in North
Carolina. At one time he served as a
member of the House of Delegates from
Patrick County.

1923

GEorRGE I. VocEL, Roanoke attorney, died
September 16, 1956, after an afternoon
round of golf. He was all-Southern guard
on the football team at Washington and
Lee.

1924

JAMES WyatTr FReNcH, valedictorian of
the class of 1924, died in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, on August 4, 1956. Mr. French, a
manufacturer’s agent in the furniture
business for 30 years, had lived in Rich-
mond for 17 years. His son Wyatt, JR., al-
so attended Washington and Lee.

1935

THOMAS JEFFERSON Bussy, JR., died in his
sleep on September 14, 1956, in Wash-
ington, D. C., where he practiced law in
partnership with his father, T. J. Busby,
former Representative from Mississippi.
He was buried at his birthplace, Houston,
Mississippi.

1951

KeitH WAYMAN was killed in a railway
crossing accident at Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin, on March 14, 1956. The young at-
torney, who was a special agent for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, is sur-
vivied by his wife and three children,
all of Milwaukee.

FALL 1956

FOOTBALL

(Continued from page 9)

and making costly first-game_ er-
rors which set up the Colonels
touchdowns. ‘The 48-6 loss to David-
son had to be taken on the chin,
for the Wildcats are enjoying their
finest season in history. Southwest-
ern’s easy 42-0 triumph over W&L
was unexpected, but the team’s
poor effort seemed to mark the
turning point of the season.

The Generals came close again
against West Virginia Tech, losing
21-20 after having been ahead three
times in the ball game. The team
gained confidence from their per-
formance, and the next wek’s 34-0
loss to Wabash was much closer
than the score would indicate.
Chipley points to three “ridiculous”
errors which put his team in a
hole by spotting the Little Giants
a three-touchdown first-half lead.

In the Sewanee contest, the worm

finally turned. Both teams had
timely breaks to set up a 7-7 stand-
off after one quarter and one play’s
work, but the Generals weren’t to
lose this one. ‘They continued to
take advantage of every ‘Tiger mis-
cue, cut their own mistakes to the
lowest ebb in two years and
emerged with a much needed 29-7
victory. Late-season losses were to
Hampden-Sydney and Washing-
ton University.

Offensively, the Generals have
been relying primarily on the pass-
ing, punting and signal-calling of
sophomore Jack Daughtrey, a 6-3,
185-pounder from Chester, Virigina,
and the running of Co-Captain full-
back Alex Platt, a 6-3, 195-pound
senior from Riverside, Connecticut.
On defense, the entire team has
shown great improvement, spear-
headed by Co-Captain Ike Smith,
a 225-pound senior tackle from
Charleston, West Virginia.

 

January 19

February 1

April 19 and 20 (tentative)

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Calendar of Events

of Interest to Alumni

1956-57

A special program for Regional Agents
John Randolph Tucker Lectures

Founders’ Day Convocation

“Washington and Lee Today”

 

 

May g, 10, 11 50-, 4o-, and 25-Year Convocation and
Reunion honoring academic and law
classes of 1907, 1917, and 1932 _
May 31 1956-57 Alumni Fund closes
June 5 Finals begin
June 6 Alumni Day
Alumni Association meets
Alumni Board of Trustees meets
June 7 Final Day
31

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
SUMMARY OF INCOME AND DISBURSEMENTS
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1956
INCOME
Alumni Fundiieeecccccccccccecccccecc cee ceee eee e cnn e nner reer nner cere eee e eee e eee ene etree enna e eer eeeee $ 95,072.30
Accounts receivable—Pledges to Alummi, not Cue... iii eee 5859-01
Washington and Lee University—operating €XPeMSe..........c cette 39,706.32
Total Income.....ccccccccccccccccccecsecceececceeeeeeeneeeeesninseeeeeeenseesecesteeeennieeessnneeeeeesnseeeeseneneeeesniaas $140,637.63
DISBURSEMENTS
SAlAVi€S ...ccccccccccccesecceeeccesesseceseecceeeccesececsteeceeeeetneseeieceeeessseeettieeetieeesieeeesneeesneesseeessueesssestteesongs $17,171.11
Alumni Fund Expense.........ccccccce eee rer ieee teen etter tee enn ssc ne nt seer eras 8,391.23
Alumni Magazine..c.cccccccccccccccccccecnesesiesceesieseeneteensisentississsesenssecssssieescseicesciseaciseneeseieestite 6,618.48
Traveling occ. ceneieseneietenenenenensisienesssssesseesersrsessisisresisicisiriririciciririssssess esses 1,259.03
Alumni Luncheons (Homecomings and Finals) Senior Banquet.........c cee 2,211.61
Office Supplies......c.ccccccceccccec ese cessccstecesiscisensenesesiteitereciiteiseensenseseceiseiscacistscticiieeatig 867.20
POSCAQE occ eccccee cence cee e ees eteceete rene tener teneceeeestetesnarceseecestsseetssetestesteienienrsirissirsesienserserssissecsss 792.03
Telephone and Telegraphi....ccccccccccecccci tite iinet nee nent sni sents es sees 201.37
INYO Totoro) © FW 8X0) 0 uO SOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIO 622.25
Equipment purchased............ Bee Sec che beh cce awk scl vsscovecevsdecestectedateveqetsestteseeepssuiateensteees 1,572.01
Total Disbursements...........00ccccecceeere cere cece e eee reenter rte nner nnieenneeernereriieertireccs $ 39,706.32
Transferred to Washington and Lee University “Treasurer.........00. cee Q5,07 2.30
Accounts payable—Pledges to Alumni Fund, not due... ccc es 5,859.01
$140,637.63
CasH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1956—REVOLVING FUND
(Advanced by University Treasurer for Current Expemses)......0...ccc eee ire tttetenes $ 800.00
CaAsH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1956—PLATE FUND.wuw. icici rete ener er ricer rete rieies $ 214.36
VALUE OF PLATES ON HAND AT COST)... ccc eccc cee entee eects eeniieeerieeecieeeniesenineernieetones $ 1,947.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
Wedgwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $21.00 per set
(in Blue only

Shipping Charges Prepaid

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNY, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

