 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plate
Wedgwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $18.00 per set
(in Blue only

F.0. B. Lexington, Virginia

9?

t

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in ow we
fe)
WASHING!
oF
e@ & ee
goooe0e”” *e
@eoee? ®
eee? 9
eeeo® ®
eee?
9oo0ee® .
eee @
@6 >
o
@
Appalachian—Waldo G. Miles, ’34, Attorney, Bris- .
tol, Virginia .
Augusta-Rockingham—Ld Moore, ’25, Waynes- e
boro, Virginia e
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 40 Pryor Street, N.W. :
Baltimore—C. William Pacy, ’50, 202 E. University e
Parkway @
Birmingham—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., ’49, Frank :
Nelson Building o
Charleston, W. Va.—W. T. Brotherton, °47, Box e
252 ®
Chattancoga—Charles L. Claunch, ’27, 1223 Volun- @
teer Building .
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’25, Winnetka Trust e
& Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois e
Charlotte—Jack Crist, Jr., ’45, Box 1045 .
Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, ’40, 576 Howell Ave. e
®
Cleveland—Kenneth A. Goode, ’25, Harper Road, e
R. D. No. 1, Solon, Ohio e
Danville, Virginia—E. Ballou Bagbey, ’29, First e
National Ban =
Florida West Ceast—W. E. Tucker, ’48, Stovall e
Professional Building, Tampa e
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building, 9
Miami, Florida @
Houston—Ben Ditto, ’43, Norton-Ditto Co. bs
Jacksonville—David W. Foerster, ’51, Atlantic Na- ®
tional Bank Building eo
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, ’°40, Kentucky -
Home Life Building .
Lynchburg—Elliott Schewel, ’45, 1201 Main Street @
Mid-South—S. L. Kopald, ’43, The Humko Co., .
Memphis, Tennessee e
New York—Stuard Wurzburger, ’28, 10 East 40th ®
street e
New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ’21, American =
Bank Building e
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, ’13, Dd
2

Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, ’35, National Bank of

Commerce Building
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Repub-
lic Bank Building, Dallas
Northwest Louisiana—T. Haller Jackson, Jr., ’48,
Commercial Building, Shreveport
Peninsular—Thomas P. Duncan, ’24, 601 Riverside
Drive, Warwick, Virginia
Philadelphia—Allen Snyder, ’°41, 2114 Benezet
oad, Abington, Pennsylvania
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., ’41, 401
Plaza Building
Richmond—Edward S. Boze, Jr.,, ’36, Hopper Pa-
per Company
Roanoke—J. D. Hobbie, III, ’87, 9 West Church
Goode, Jr., °43, 407-09

Avenue
W.
"21, 4144 Lindell

San Antonio—John
South Texas Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson,
Boulevard

Tri-State—H. Preston Henshaw, ’39, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C.—Arthur C. Smith, °41, 1313

You Street, North West

SEPTEMBER, 1954

Vol. XXIX
No. 4

Published quarterly by

The Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press

of Washington and Lee University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917
Class Notes Editor

Mary BARCLAY

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC

President
WILLIAM L. WEBSTER, 1912

Vice-President
JOHN F. HENDON, 1924

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Treasurer
H. L. SHUEY, 1924

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

WILLIAM L. WEBSTER, 1912
J. STEWART, BUXTON, 1936
Wyatt C. HEbRICK, 1910
JouN F. HENDON, 1924

H. L. SHUEY, 1924

MartTIn P. Burks, III, 1932
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928

Hlowarp W. DosBIns, 1942

The 2gob6th Year

 

FRESHMEN

m THE MORNING of September 44,
1954, saw gathered in Doremus
gymnasium 293 boys who would
form the link in the chain of Wash-
ington and Lee history that would
be designated as the Class of 1958.
They were there to take the usual
battery of placement tests, neces-
sary for properly sectioning them
in their classes which would begin
on September 15. Iwo hundred
fifty-nine of the class had taken ad-
vantage of the voluntary experience
of Freshman Camp. The camp was
actually the largest ever to be held
and marked the first use of the mag-
nificent new gate-house facilities at
Natural Bridge, where attractive
and even luxurious dining facilities
and a splendid new swimming pool
were available for use by the camp.

The figure of 293 was an increase
of ten over last year’s freshman
class. (Thirteen transfer students
were accepted also, as against six in
1953.) This increase in freshman
class size was made possible by
Opening a small auxiliary dormi-
tory in a house just across the
street from the regular dormi-
tory. Designated as Preston House,
after the family that formerly held
the property, this house can accom-
modate about a dozen boys. Pres-
ton House will operate under the
regular dormitory system with its
own student counselor for its oc-
cupants. The size of the entering
class was again determined by the
available dormitory accommoda-
tions. Except for a few boys living
at home and one married veteran,
every freshman is in comfortable
dormitory quarters. In 1953, at the
cost of around a dozen freshmen
places, the assigning of three boys
to two-man rooms (adopted as a
post-war measure with the veteran
influx) was dropped; and again this
year no room has more than two
occupants.

The broad geographical distri-
bution of the class has been main-
tained, but with a rather interesting
increase in enrollment from the
southern area. The ‘“‘southern” area

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

is interpreted as including such bor-
der states as Maryland, Missouri
and Oklahoma. This year 187 boys
came from the South. ‘This is 64 per
cent of the class, as against 56 per
cent in 1953. From the Atlantic sea-
board north of Maryland came 81
boys, or 28 per cent of the class,
as opposed to 31 per cent last year.
Freshmen from the rest of the coun-
try and from foreign countries to-
talled 25, or 8 per cent of the class
against 13 per cent in 1953.

The breakdown of attendance by
states may be of interest: Virginia
44; Maryland 33; New York 29;
‘Texas 17; New Jersey 16; West
Virginia and Ohio 14; Florida 13;
Kentucky 12; Pennsylvania 11; Con-
necticut and Massachusetts 10;
Louisiana and ‘Tennessee g; District
of Columbia 8; Missouri 6; Dela-
ware 5; Alabama, Georgia, Illinois,
North Carolina, and South Caro-
lina 4; California, Mississippi, and
France 2; Minnesota, Montana,
Washington, Wisconsin, Canada
and Puerto Rico 1.

There is a decided increase in
this fall’s class in those entering
trom private schools. In this cate-
gory are 164 boys or 56 per cent as
against 47 per cent last year. One
hundred twenty-nine come from
public schools, 44 per cent this year
as compared with 53 per cent a
year ago. As for those coming from
private schools, 29 per cent of the
293-man class comes from such
schools in the South, 24 per cent
from the northern Atlantic sea-
board and 3 per cent from else-
where. Among the public school
contingent, 30 per cent of the total
class are from southern high schools,
10 per cent from high schools in the
northern Atlantic seaboard section,
and 4 per cent from other areas.

Some comment on the enrollment
from private and public schools
may be in order.

Washington and Lee shares the
feeling held by most colleges that
it is desirable to have at least half
of its student body selected from
the public high schools. Several fac-
tors make this objective difficult of
achievement, however.

SEPTEMBER 1954

In the first place, in the South,
as compared with the East, it is
a much more general thing for stu-
dents leaving the public schools to
attend state colleges, where the
large proportion of their fellow
graduates enter, rather than to en-
roll at private colleges. In the East
the latter can expect a much greater
proportion of high school graduates
to select them than in the South.

The economic factor is perhaps
more influential than the geograph-
ical in affecting the choice between
a state and a private college. Rising
costs have generally increased the
expense of operating a college. ‘The
state institutions can pass a large
share of this increase to its tax-
payers. A private college such as
Washington and Lee, with a very
limited endowment, must pass it
on to its students and their parents
in the form of increased tuition.
(Tuition and fees for the average
freshman at Washington and Lee
is now approximately $600 a year.)
Generally speaking, the parents of
students at the private schools are
better off economically than those
in the public high schools, and it is
therefore easier for them to pay the
cost of attending a private college
with its higher charges.

Other particular situations also
may contribute to the increase in
private school attendance. For ex-
ample, geographical location and
other factors have for many years
made the University especially at-
tractive to boys from the Baltimore
area. (In this year’s freshman class
there are 27 boys from Baltimore
alone.) This fact, together with the
fact that possibly no city anywhere
near its size in the country has a
larger proportion of secondary
school students in private day
schools than does Baltimore, is re-
flected in the attendance here at
Washington and Lee.

The 293 boys entering were se-
lected from a total of 721 completed
applications, all with registration
fees paid. To secure the entering
group, acceptances were offered
445 boys. These figures indicate
that 152 boys decided to enter else-

where, and that we were obliged to
decline admission to 276. ‘The pro-
portion of accepted applicants who
confirmed their acceptance consti-
tuted a very creditable showing as
compared with colleges generally.
Where so many factors must be
considered in the evaluation of can-
didates’ credentials (see article on
admissions that follows), it is not
easy to compare before entrance the
qualifications of different classes.
However, a subjective study of the
entrance records certainly justifies
the expectation that the Class of
1958 is equipped to give a good ac-
count of itself at Washington and
Lee.

m™ THERE IS NOTHING CASUAL about
the fact that another freshman
class is starting its college career
at Washington and Lee. From the
time each member of that class
made application until the Admis-
sions Office mailed his formal ac-
ceptance several months: later, a
great deal had been going on. ‘The
reason: with 721* applicants from
which to select, competition for
membership in the 293-man Class ot
1958 was especially keen. Out of
every seven men who applied, only
four could be granted admission,
for experience has shown that three
of the four would accept Wash-
ington and Lee over other colleges
to which they had applied.

What is the procedure that leads
to the selection of an applicant for
admission to Washington and Lee?

First attention, of course, must be
given to the applicant’s academic
promise. This does not mean that
he must have been a straight-A
student in his secondary school. Not
at all. But it does mean that in the
case of each boy to whom admis-
sion is granted, the Admissions Of-
fice has to assure itself as completely
as possible of his ability to do satis-
factory work on the college level
and to receive his degree in the

*The figure 721 refers to actual appli-
cations, those for which the application
fee was paid. It does not take into ac-
count the many additional inquiries re-
ceived by the Admissions Office.

scheduled four years. This is in
fairness to the student, to his fam-
ily, and to the University. ‘To this
end the academic record he has
made, and the school in which he
has made it, are studied carefully.
The written evaluation of the ap-
plicant by the principal or head-
master of his school and the state-
ments made by the two teachers he
names as references are noted care-
fully.

In addition, each applicant is re-
quired to take the Scholastic Apti-
tude ‘Test of the College Entrance
Examination Board. He does not
have to “pass” this test, for there is
no such thing as a passing or fail-
ing grade for it. The score he
makes, however, is of particular
significance to the Admissions Of-
fice. Since College Board examina-
tions are given nationwide (134
colleges and universities require
them in connection with their ad-
missions programs), they cut across
the wide differences that exist in
secondary school educational pro-
grams and grading systems, and
provide a valid comparison between
applicants for admission, regardless
of the sections of the country or
the schools from which they come.
In the case of each applicant to
this year’s freshman class, the com-
parison was between his academic
promise as a college student and
that of each of the other 720 appli-
cants. The additional information
afforded by this College Board test,
therefore, was very helpful in mak-
ing final selection of the new class.

This Scholastic Aptitude Test
serves both students and the Uni-
versity in other ways as well. It
furnishes information that is valu-
able in placing each student in the
proper class section so that he can
derive the most good from his Uni-
versity education during the critical
first year. Its results are helpful to
members of the administration and
faculty, particularly to those as-
signed as advisers to freshmen, in
counseling students. In furnishing
educational guidance, for example,
advisers rely, in part, on aptitude
test results to reveal areas of aca-

4

demic strength and weakness. They
also look for indications of failure
to live up to the academic promise
predicted by test results, since such
failure may reveal the existence of
personal problems that need to be
solved. Finally, test results enable
the aptitude of a student in any
class to be compared with that of
students in other classes, since at
some time all students have taken
comparable examinations. This is
important where members of more
than one class enroll in the same
University course.

So much for the analysis of an
applicant’s academic promise, and
the importance of College Board
tests.

The selection process does not
end here, however. Washington
and Lee wants to fill its ranks with
young men who give the strongest
indication of being able to profit
in substantial measure from the
University’s total educational pro-
gram, and who are most likely to
make worthy contributions, not
only to campus life, but also to the
American way of life in their years
after graduation. Full attention is
given, therefore, to each applicant’s
participation in extra-curricular ac-
tivities during his secondary school
years. Factors of personality are
evaluated, too, from information
gained by representatives of the
Admissions Office (who meet with
about half of those who are granted
admission), or furnished by alumni,
current students, or the applicant’s
teachers and principal or head-
master.

Geographical background comes
in for its share of attention, also. Al-
though Washington and Lee is a
college of Southern tradition and
background, it nonetheless is inter-
ested in maintaining a cosmopoli-
tan student body, with members of
each class drawn from widely vary-
ing geographical locations.

Nor are family ties to the Univer-
sity overlooked. ‘The son (or other
relative) of an alumnus finds the
path to admission easier than
others, for natural preference is
shown for these young men if they

give reasonable assurance of being
able to make a satisfactory record at
the University.

In the final analysis, admission to
the University is the result of a
weighing process* wherein all of
the foregoing factors are considered
together to give admissions officials
a total picture of the individual
being considered. It is the net effect
of all the factors on the scales that
governs the admission of an appli-
cant.

All of those who come to the cam-
pus for the first time in September
went through this selection process.
It had to be that way. Large num-
bers of students have applied for
admission to the nation’s colleges
in recent years. The education of
the majority of them has fallen to
the state-supported institutions
where funds are available for the
necessary expansion of faculties
and facilities. To Washington and
Lee, lacking in funds for, and op-
posed in policy to, any large scale

expansion, it has become increas-

ingly clear that the University’s
strongest role in higher education
today is one of providing a well-
rounded education of the highest
quality to carefully selected stu-
dents. To this end its admissions
program is directed.

‘The Class of 1958 is a product of
this program. Its progress at the
University and its success in grad-
uate life will be watched with
keen interest.

FOOTBALL

m WHAT HAS HAPPENED AT Washing-
ton and Lee that football should
be suspended for the 1954 season?

That is the question puzzling
many alumni who have been in-
terested in following Washington
and Lee’s football fortunes. Perhaps
the answer is best given by tracing
chronologically the developments
that have taken place and have had

*In contrast to a screening process
wherein a candidate must measure up to
each of a series of standards, and failure
to meet any one of them will disqualify
him.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

The Board’s Resolution

1. That with regret Washington and Lee University suspends
intercollegiate football for the time being and cancels all scheduled
games; that the president of Washington and Lee inform the
presidents of the institutions with which football games have been
scheduled of the reasons which have impelled this decision.

2. That all obligations other than the playing of football
games scheduled heretofore incurred in connection with the prior

program of Washington and Lee be faithfully and fully carried

out. —

g. ‘That intramural football be further encouraged. |

4. That consideration be given to the possibility of re-estab-
lishing intercollegiate football upon an amateur basis by, among
other things, endeavoring to find other educational institutions to
which modern day subsidization is unacceptable, which will join
in an effort to re-establish intercollegiate football as an unsubsi-
dized college sport.

5. That no other athletic scholarships be awarded beyond
those already committed.

6. ‘That the University endeavor to expand its athletic pro-
gram, both intercollegiate and intramural, in such a way as to in-
terest and enlist participation of the largest number of students.

 

 

a bearing on football at the Univer-
sity since the resumption of the in-
tercollegiate athletic program at
the close of World War II.

Alumni will recall that shortly
after the war they were polled to
see what they desired with regard
to intercollegiate athletics at Wash-
ington and Lee. That poll indicated
that most of those responding were
desirous of maintaining competi-
tion with traditional rivals, and ex-
tending aid to those students who
demonstrate good athletic ability
and stand in need of such aid.

With this in mind, the Board of
‘Trustees in 1946 set the following
five point policy:

1. Subsidized football is required
if we are to play our neighbors,
and accordingly grants-in-aid to
football squad members are to be
made openly and under University
control.

2. Holders of grants-in-aid are to
be fully assimilated into our stu-
dent body.

3. Admissions standards and aca-
demic eligibility are to be con-
trolled by the faculty.

SEPTEMBER 1954

 

4. The caliber of the team is to
be such as to permit reasonable
competition with our natural rivals.

5. Financing is to be contributed
by the University to a limited ex-
tent only, exclusive of tuition
grants.

Such was the policy established
by the Board of Trustees to meet
changing conditions in post-war in-
tercollegiate athletic competition.

There was another significant
change taking place in the educa-
tional world at the same time. It
was occasioned by the _ post-war
flow to the college campuses of
large numbers of students who
wanted a college education follow-
ing their military service. It was a
condition under which no college
could stand still. One possibility
was to expand enrollment. This
would require the expenditure of
large amounts of money for en-
larging both faculty and physical
plant. It also would involve serious
doubts as to whether it would be
possible to retain academic stand-
ards, much less improve them. The
other feasible alternative was to

maintain enrollment at about the
same level and to improve the qual-
ity of education. Washington and
Lee, lacking both in funds and in
the desire to become a large institu-
tion, chose the latter. Like most
other small, independently sup-
ported educational institutions in
the country, it elected to be some-
what more selective of its students
and to tailor its educational pro-
gram so as to most effectively serve
those chosen. It decided in favor of
academic rather than numerical
strength.

It was at this point, incidentally,
that the University found it de-
sirable to use the general aptitude
test of the College Entrance Exami-
nation Board. Its use made avail-
able one more bit of evidence de-
signed to indicate more conclu-
sively whether or not a prospective
student would be able to do satis-
factory work at Washington and
Lee. (See page 4 for further discus-
sion of College Board examina-
tions.) Its adoption was in keeping
with the policy established by the
Board of ‘Trustees, namely, that ad-
mission standards and academic
eligibility are to be controlled by
the faculty.

During this same period many of
our natural rivals, their ranks
swelled to new proportions, became,
in effect, unnatural rivals for Wash-
ington and Lee. They began to
place more and more emphasis on
their football teams, and that meant
the added expenditure of money
and increased competition for
young men of unusual football
prowess. ‘To meet this competition,
which the University Board in its
policy had said we should do, re-
quired additional exepnditures and
added emphasis on subsidized play-
ers at Washington and Lee. The re-
sult was that a majority of the
young men brought in on athletic
scholarships were admitted as “‘cal-
culated academic risks.’ ‘The prob-
ability that they would successfully
complete four years of college work
was less than for other members of
the student body. And on top of this
not too bright prospect of success,

5

 

Dr. Gaines on the Football Decision

To the Alumni and the Students:

You may have seen a press announcement that our Trustees have decided to suspend intercollegiate
football for a period, to cancel all scheduled games, and to discontinue subsidizing athletes. I offer a brief
summary of the situation as the Trustees see it.

The immediate cause for the action taken was a realization that the returning football squad, for a va-
riety of reasons which included academic deficiencies and involvements of the Honor System, had dimin-
ished to such a point that we could offer no more than token competition. It was felt that this would be un-
fair both to competing colleges and to the general public. The alternative was one of additional subsidiza-
tion. ‘This step the Board was unwilling to take.

Although the decision is a recent one, consideration of the problem is not new. It has been apparent for
some time that subsidized football is inconsistent with our academic purposes. Since we have never intended
to establish for athletes an entire program (admissions, curriculum, and academic standards) of a different
nature from that offered other students, the strain on the subsidized athlete has been great. The time and
energy that are required, not only to play the game, but to study it, have represented an additional
course that he must carry. Where there is this strain, something is apt to give.

This subsidized program of intercollegiate athletics has also placed a severe strain upon the University’s
financial resources. When receipts from every source, and expenditures for every need, had been received at
the end of the 1952-53 year, the deficit paid by the University was about $8,000. At the close of the
1953-54 year, that deficit was about $25,000. There is reason to believe that at the end of the current ses-
sion, if we had continued the football program, the deficit would have been much larger. Moreover, each
of these annual deficits was in addition to $26,000 granted in free tuition to athletes and about $18,000 col-
lected from tuition and designated to support the athletic program.

There is no standing still in a subsidized program. I am convinced that to continue we would have had
to make radical changes—larger athletic scholarships, lower standards. ‘This plan we are unwilling to adopt.
Nor is the Board of Trustees willing to continue under a condition where it is impossible for Washington
and Lee to operate on a budget because of the unpredictable drain on our income caused by an intercollegiate
athletic program of this type.

It should be remembered, too, that to make even as poor a financial showing as we have made, it has been
necessary to schedule several games a year out of Lexington, and normally with teams entirely out of our class,
simply as money games. One recent season scheduled only two out of ten games on this campus. For next
fall two out of nine would have been played at home. ‘Thus, not only has the playing of the game been
taken away from the students without athletic subsidy, but also the rest of the student body is being denied
in large part the privilege of being spectators of the sport. ‘he Board, the Administration, and the Faculty
as a whole are not opposed to football. We consider subsidized athletics unwise for the reasons I have
cited.

We shall try to resume intercollegiate football on a nonsubsidized basis as soon as possible, for we feel
that a full program of intercollegiate athletics, one in which the opportunity of participating is once again
equally available to all students, is an integral part of Washington and Lee’s educational program. In the
meantime, we shall extend and enrich every form of sport on this campus. Our aim is to give our boys,
who honor us by selecting this institution, an opportunity to participate in a sports program as attractive

and as helpful as that provided by any college in America. :
_ ri [>

August 5, 1954

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

this same group of young men
was expected to devote large
amounts of time to their efforts on
the gridiron. It was inevitable,
therefore, that in many cases some-
thing had to give way, either hon-
est academic achievement or the
Honor System.

With two notable exceptions,
those of the 1950 and 1951 seasons,
Washington and Lee just did not
have manpower with which to meet
the competition posed by its rivals.
This was the case despite deficit
financing. There was talk, there-
fore, in 1953, of the possibility of
giving up football because of the
need for excessive expenditures and
subsidization of players. A change
in the rules came along, however, to
abolish the two-platoon system and
give football at Washington and
Lee a lift. There followed in June a
decision to try subsidization for one
more year.

The situation became critical
again in the spring of 1954. This
time University athletic officials
took their problem to the floor of
the annual meeting of the Southern
Conference, and there played a
leading role in changing the rules
so as to make freshmen eligible for
play beginning with the 1954 sea-
son. It appeared that this had given
Washington and Lee another ex-
tension of life on the gridiron.

Then came June 1954, and the
realization that, for a variety of
reasons, which included academic
deficiencies and infractions of the
Honor System, the football man-
power situation was again critical.
A few days later the Executive
Committee of the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics
(the full committee is made up of
representatives from the faculty,
alumni, and student bodies) recom-
mended that Washington and Lee
give up football entirely for the
1954 season. ‘To consider this rec-
ommendation, a special meeting
was called, on July 7, of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Board of
‘Trustees, the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics, and
University administrative officials.

SEPTEMBER 1954

Last Minute News on Athletics

IN RAPID SUCCESSION, beginning
with the opening assembly on Sep-
tember 15, Dr. Gaines made a series
of announcements designed to im-
plement the policy of the Board of
Trustees with regard to intercol-
legiate athletics at the University.

1. Washington and Lee not only
will return to the collegiate football
scene in 1955 on a strictly amateur
basis, but also will field a freshman-
jayvee team during the current sea-
son. While it is not yet possible to
announce any definitely scheduled
games for this fall, it is believed that
some contests can be arranged.

2. Boyd Willams, a former line
coach at VMI and the University of
Richmond, has been appointed
football coach for this year. ‘The ap-
pointment is a temporary one, since
coach Carl Wise is on leave of ab-

sence from the University only until
December 1.

3. Henceforth all intercollegiate
athletics will be under the direction
of the physical education depart-
ment. Coaches for all sports will be.
members of that department and
will enjoy faculty status. :

4. It is the intention of the Uni-
versity to schedule at least half of its
intercollegiate contests for play on
this campus. This includes basket-
ball, which will be moved from the
VMI fieldhouse back to Doremus
Gymnasium.

5. Sports other than football will
receive a financial boost, thanks to
the generosity of an unnamed alum-
nus who has offered to foot the bill
if the University will double its
allocation .to those sports. “This.
will be done,” ‘Dr. Gaines declared.

000000 OOHCOOOO0HOOOOHOOO8OH90OO0H8OH088HTHHHHO98HHH8HO88888888

Following a free and open discus-
sion in the morning, the Executive
Committee of the Board met in
closed session. Out of that meeting
came a decision calling for gradual
de-emphasis of athletics and a grad-
ual return to a program wherein
there would be no subsidization of
athletes whatever. The decision was
also made to play out the 1954
season in full.

The following two weeks were
full of developments. ‘here were
resignations from the coaching
staff. There crystalized in the minds
of those charged with the respon-
sibility of meeting this fall’s foot-
ball schedule the feeling that it
would be impossible to play unless
the University was willing to sub-
sidize to a greater extent to make
up for the losses which had been
suffered in the football ranks. And
it was during this period that Uni-
versity officials had their first look
at the audited report of the Univer-
sity’s finances for the year 1953-54.
They had only to look at the
$25,000 deficit, $20,000 of which it
had not anticipated, and take cog-

nizance of an additional $44,000 in
student fees and tuition grants that
had gone into the cost of one sea-
son of football. It was unmistak-
ably clear that University financing
was far in excess of the “limited
extent only” specified in earlier
Board policy. Moreover, it was evi-
dent that the cost of operating a
subsidized athletic program could
not be gauged in advance, and
therefore that it would be impos-
sible for the University to operate
on a budget during any year in
which a program of subsidized ath-
letics was in effect.

It was against this background
that the decision was made to call.
the entire University Board of |
Trustees into special session on
July 23. And it was from this meet-
ing that there came the decision to
suspend football for 1954.

GIFTS

m UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS have an-
nounced a magnificent gift from
Mrs. Alfred I. du Pont. This do-
nation of $254,112 is the creation of
a fund to be known as “The Jessie

7

JOHN RANDOLPH ‘TUCKER

Ball du Pont—Francis P. Gaines
Fund.” One half of the income is to
be used permanently for augment-
ing faculty salaries, and one half of
the income is to be used as scholar-
ships for needy and promising boys.

It is significiant that the purposes
Mrs. du Pont thus serves are ex-
actly the two chief needs of the
University as reported by faculty
committees after long study as basis
of our development program.

Support from Mrs. du Pont con-
stitutes a notable chapter in the
history of Washington and Lee.
She had already established the Al-
fred I. du Pont scholarships and the
Thomas Ball professorships. In
1951 she made a large contribution
as an emergency fund. Greatest of
her generosities, however, is the
fact that this University is the re-
sidual legatee of 35 per cent of two
trust funds; certain individuals are
to receive the income during their
life and then the income, and ul-
timately the capital, will be divided
between institutions. Washington
and Lee’s share, as reported by the
auditor on June 30, 1954, 1s slightly
more than $1,400,000.

‘The new gift was made as of

August 4, 1954.

TRUSTEES

JOHN RANDOLPH ‘TUCKER, A.B.
‘oo, LL.B. ’02, prominent Rich-

8

 

mond attorney and member of the
University Board of ‘Trustees, died
in Richmond, Virginia, on June 12.

Mr. ‘Tucker was a native of
Staunton, Virginia, where he began
his law practice in 1903. He went
to Richmond, Virginia, in 1906 and
became a member of the firm of
Munford, Hunton, Williams and
Anderson. At the time of his death
he was a senior partner in the law
firm of ‘Tucker, Mays, Cabell and
Moore.

In 1919 Mr. ‘Tucker was ap-
pointed general counsel of the Vir-
ginia State Corporation Commis-
sion, a position he held for four
years. He served two years as a mem-
ber of the Richmond City Council,
and for fifteen years he taught law
at Richmond College. Mr. Tucker
served as general counsel and as a
member of the board of directors
of the Virginia Trust Company.
From 1945 to 1947 he was a member
of the Richmond Library Board.

He was the son of Harry St.
George Tucker, ’75, a member of
Congress from the Tenth Congres-
sional District. Both his father and
grandfather, John Randolph Tuck-
er, served terms as dean of the
Washington and Lee school of law.
Surviving are his wife, Mrs. Mary
Byrd ‘Tucker; a son, J. Randolph
‘Tucker, Jr., ’48; a daughter, Mrs.
Francis ‘I. Green, and two grand-
daughters.

FACULTY

THOMAS EARLY LOTHERY, JR., As-
sistant Professor of Physics, died in
Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lex-
ington on Saturday, July 24, 1954,
from injuries received in a farm ac-
cident near Brownsburg, Virginia.
He was a native of North Carolina,
the son of Mr. Thomas E. Lothery
and the late Mrs. Lothery of David-
son, North Carolina. He was edu-
cated in the public schools of that
community and was a graduate of
Davidson College in the class of
1928. He took graduate work at
the University of Chicago, 1929-31,
where he pursued special studies in
photography.

Prior to coming to Washington
and Lee, Professor Lothery held

teaching assignments at Presbyte-
rian College and at Davidson Col-
lege, serving at both schools as as-
sistant professor of physics. Join-
ing the faculty of Washington and
Lee in 1938, he taught courses in
physics, meteorology, and electron-
ics. During the early years of World
War II, in addition to his duties at
Washington and Lee, he served on
the faculty at Virginia Military In-
stitute; and later during the war
served as a field engineer in the
installation of radar equipment for
the Western Electric Company.

Mr. Lothery’s varied abilities and
interests were evidenced by his
many campus activities such as
membership on the Executive, Sec-
tioning, Alumni, and Athletic Com-
mittees. For the past several years
he made movies of most of the
Washington and Lee football games
which not only were used by the
coaching staff but distributed
widely to alumni groups. He also
made movies of special events on
the campus and at VMI, and at the
time of his death was completing
a movie of the recent 5-year Alumni
Reunion held in June.

In the community he served as
a member of the Board of Directors
of the American Red Cross and was
a Deacon in the Lexington Presby-
terian Church. He was a member
of the Virginia Academy of Science,
the Sigma Pi Sigma national phys-

 

THoMAS E. LOTHERY, Jr.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ics fraternity, and Beta Pi social
fraternity.

Mr. Lothery will be remembered
by many alumni as a most excellent
and thorough instructor and as a
valuable counselor. His death has
created a great loss to the Univer-
sity which he served so faithfully
and loyally for the past sixteen
years.

Mr. Lothery is survived by his
wife, the former Ann McNutt of
Brownsburg, Virginia, and _ his
father, Mr. Thomas Early Lothery
of Davidson, North Carolina.

@ SCATTERED THROUGHOUT the Uni-
versity are items of faculty schol-
arship and public service that will
be of interest to alumni. Some of
those items are recorded here.

Dr. L. L. Barrett, professor of
romance languages, continues to
serve as associate editor of Hispania
and of Symposium. He is also on
the Spanish committee of the Col-
lege Entrance Examination Board
and is chairman for 1954 of the
literature program of the American
Association of Teachers of Spanish
and Portuguese....Dr. C. West-
brook Barritt, assistant professor of
Spanish, presented a paper before
the Linguistic Society of America
which was subsequently published
in Language magazine.... Dr. Ar-
thur W. Borden, Jr., Professor of
English, serves as a reader on the
National College Entrance Exam-
ination Board.

During the past year Dr. William
G. Bean, chairman of the history
department, had published in the
Virginia Magazine of History and
Biography a review and the article,
“The Ruffner Pamphlet of 1847:
an anti-slavery aspect of Virginia’s
sectionalism.” He also wrote “John
Letcher and the Slavery Issue in the
Virginia Gubernatorial Contest of
1858-59” for the Journal of South-
ern History.... Dr. Jack N. Behr-
man, in addition to having a re-
view published in the Western Po-
litical Quarterly, submitted written
testimony for the Senate Committee
on Banking and Currency in con-

SEPTEMBER 1954

nection with an investigation of
U. S. foreign lending policy. The
latter will be printed in the com-
mittee’s Hearings.... Almand R.
Coleman, professor of accounting,
serves as a consultant on contract
pricing to the Army Ordnance
Corps and also as a member of the
Committees on Accounting Proce-
dure and on Awards of the Amer-
ican Institute of Accounting.

Mr. Henry E. Coleman, Jr., Uni-
versity Librarian, has been appoint-
ed consultant on Archives and His-
tory to the Federal and State Com-
mission in charge of the Jamestown
Anniversary Celebration in 1957.

Dr. H. M. Colvin, lecturer in
law, serves on the Committee on
International Law of the Virginia
State Bar Association and on the
American Bar Association’s Com-
mittee on Private Claims of the
United States Government... . Dr.
L. J. Desha, chairman of the chem-
istry department and just back from
an extended European tour, chair-
manned the Planning Committee
for the Conference on Undergradu-
ate Research in Chemistry, which
was sponsored by the National
Science Foundation and held on
the Washington and Lee campus
in May... Dr. Marshall W. Fish-
wick, associate professor of Ameri-
can studies, has had numerous ar-
ticles published during the past
year. ‘They include “The Virginia
Tradition” in American Heritage;
“The Road West” in American
Quarterly; ‘““The Need for Modern
Design” in the New York Herald
Tribune; “Virginia’s Land 0’
Goshen” in the Ford Times; “Buena
Vista’s Boom,” ‘The Place of Won-
der,” and “John Esten Cooke’s
Novels” in Comonwealth; and “Ap-
proaching Europe,” ‘“Faulkner’s
Cosmology,” and “A Virginia Tra-
dition in Architecture,’ in the
American Institute of Architects
Bulletin.

Dr. Walter A. Flick, chairman of
the department of education, is a
member of three important educa-
tional groups: the Commission on

~ Research of the Southern Associa-

tion of Colleges and Secondary

Schools, the Advisory Committee of
the Virginia State Board of Educa-
tion’s Committee for Schools and
Colleges, and the National Prepara-
tory School Committee....Dr. E.
Claybrook Griffith, professor of
economics, has had a review pub-
lished in the Southern Economic
Journal. In the past year he has
also served as a public member of
panels in arbitration of several
labor disputes and has served as
president of the Virginia Social
Science Association. Professor Ru-
pert N. Latture of the political
science department serves as vice-
president of the latter group.

Dr. Charles V. Laughlin, profes-
sor of law, has played a leading
role in establishing the Judge Ad-
vocate General’s training school at
Washington and Lee. He also has
had published in the Michigan Law
Review an article, “In Support of
the ‘Thayer Theory of Presump-
tions,” and was responsible for the
preparation of two bar examina-
tion questions for the California
Board of Bar Examiners.... Dr.
James G. Leyburn, Dean of the
University, has had numerous re-
views published in the American
Sociological Review during the past
year.... Professor of Law Charles
P. Light serves as a member of the
Committee on Legal Conferences
of the Virginia State Bar Associa-
tion.

The motion picture Robert E.
Lee: a Background Study was se-
lected as the film-of-the-month in
February by the magazine Social
Education. Dr. Allen W. Moger,
professor of history, served as edu-
cational collaborator with Coronet
Instructional Films of Chicago in
the production of this picture, a
part of which was filmed on the
Washington and Lee campus. He
has since been asked to collaborate
in the making of three historical
films based on the period of the
American Revolution. In process
for a year, these films were released
during the summer.

In the English department Dr.
Marvin B. Perry, Jr. (with co-au-
thors H. M. Jones and R. M. Lud-

9

PERRY

wig) has published the second edi-
tion of Modern Minds: An Anthol-
ogy of Ideas. He has also contribut-
ed recent book reviews to the Vzr-
ginia Quarterly Review and the
Keats-Shelly Journal. . . . Professor
O. W. Riegel received the Gold
Key of the Columbia Scholastic
Press Association for his outstand-
ing contribution to the school press
field during the past year. He has
also served as a member of the Na-
tional Committee for an Adequate
Overseas U. S. Information Pro-
gram, and was one of five judges for
the annual alumni magazine awards
contest of the American Alumni
Council. In addition, he had pub-
lished in Public Opinion Quarterly
an article entitled “Residual Effects
of Exchange-of-Persons.” . . . Dr.
Kenneth P. Stevens, chairman of the
biology department, is serving as
secretary of the biology section of
the Virginia Academy of Sciences.
Dr. Charles W. Turner, of the
history department, has recently
published two articles: ‘““The Chesa-
peake and Ohio Railroad in Re-
construction, 1866-1873’ in the
North Carolina Historical Review
and “Andrew Moore: First Na-
tional Senator From West of the
Blue Ridge” in the Filson Historical
Quarterly.... Dr. Charles W. Wil-
liams, associate professor of math-
ematics, conducted a discussion on
trends in college mathematics at

10

 

the University of Virginia this
spring.

@ THE FOLLOWING MEN have _ re-
ceived appointments to the faculty
beginning with the coming term:

JouNn Harvey WHEELER, assOCli-
ate professor of Political Science.
B.A. and M.A., Indiana University;
Ph.D., Harvard University. Has
taught at Indiana and Harvard;
comes to us from Johns Hopkins
University. Married; two sons.

ROBERT CARLETON GOODELL, as-
sistant professor of German and
English. B.A., Darthmouth College;

 

MOGER

M.A., Princeton University; Ph.D.,
Columbia University. Has taught at
Bowdoin College, Washington and
Lee (1941-44), and Williams Col-
lege. Unmarried.

ROBERT STEWART, assistant pro-
fessor of Music. M.Mus., American
Conservatory of Music, Chicago.
Has taught at American Conserva-
tory, Rizzo School of Music, Arkan-
sas College. Married; no children.

LAWRENCE HERBERT PETERSON, aS-
sistant professor of History. B.A.,
University of Minnesota; M.A.,
Ph.D., University of Wisconsin. Has
taught at University of Wisconsin,
and University of ‘Tulsa. Unmar-
ried.

Joun Epwarp Davis, JR., instruc-
tor in Biology. B.A., Ph.D., Univer-

 

sity of Virginia. ‘Taught at Wash-
ington and Lee (1949-51). Married;
one child.

Epwarp Buck HAMER, JR., in-
structor in Romance Languages.
B.A., Wofford College; M.A., Uni-
versity of Maryland; Ph.D., Univer-
sity of North Carolina. Has taught
at the University of North Carolina.
Unmarried.

HALLAM WALKER, instructor in
Romance Languages. B.A., M.A.,
Ph.D., Princeton University. Has
taught at Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity. Married; two children.

SAMUEL LouIS DAVIDSON, instruc-
tor in Physics. B.A., Washington
and Lee, 1954. Married; no chil-
dren.

gw THESE MEMBERS of the University
family have received promotions:

Dr. R. WINTER RoysTON, to be as-
sociate professor in Mathematics.

JAmeEs D. FARRAR, to be Assistant
Dean of Students.

@ ABSENT ON LEAVE from the Uni-

versity during the coming year will
be:

ALMAND R. COLEMAN, to be Visit-
ing Professor of Accounting at Har-
vard Graduate School of Business
Administration; WILLIAM A. JENKs,
to do research in Italy and Austria;
G. FRANCIS DRAKE, to do research
at University of North Carolina.

RIEGEL

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

For returning alumni, provocative words about

Faith and Freedom

By H. GRAHAM Morison, ’30

HIS GATHERING of alumni has

been, for me, a spiritual excur-
sion more deeply satisfying than I
would have ever believed. It has
made me realize, all the more, the
difficulty of doing justice to this oc-
casion.

I recognize full well that I can-
not speak the thoughts and feelings
of each of you about our University.
I can only speak my own heart and
mind. But I take refuge in the be-
lief that there is a broad bond be-
tween all of us and this place; and
it is within that bond of mutual af-
fection, devotion and _ reverence
that I speak.

I have been wondering these past
few days what were the innermost
thoughts of the graduating class
of 1954. Looking back over twenty
years, it occurred to me that youth
is essentially an age of hope and
happy optimism; but, I reasoned,
in this day and age, that happy op-
timism must now have been blunted
by the realities of a sick world.

It seems to me that the true test
of the continuing greatness of this
institution will be the kind of lives
that these men of the Class of 1954
make for themselves. Will the faith
and ancient truths here imparted to
them shield and protect them as
they walk into the violence of the
days that are ahead?

What does the future offer the
Class of 1954?

The faith in freedom—the Amer-
ican faith in itself and its cause—
has sustained the spirit of our peo-
ple since Valley Forge. It carried us
victorious through the agony of
civil conflict and two world wars.
But, in a little more than two short
years, the strength of this American
faith has somehow been lost, and

SEPTEMBER 1954

this great Nation and its people are
confused, uninspired, lacking in di-
rection and preoccupied with the
search for someone to blame for
their fears.

The great alliance with our
friends in Western Europe, launch-
ed after World War II and built
upon the foundations of mutual
confidence, mutual help and the
common purpose of preserving free
institutions, has begun to crumble
with the evidences of our vacillation
and self-doubt.

The mastery of the atom and
hydrogen bombs, so singularly a
token of the high achievements of
free minds, is now matched by the
Russians, and they may have now
outstripped us in scientific advance-
ment. ‘hus, even the uneasy secur-
ity of scientific supremacy for de-
fense, has vanished, and we are ina
race to get ahead of the enemy.

In the grim race to regain this
scientific supremacy in the means of
destruction, however, our men of
science tell us that the flow of young
scientific minds into the labora-
tories of advanced research and de-
velopment have begun to dry up,
because of the prevailing air of sus-
picion and distrust. The recent de-
cision concerning Dr. Robert Op-
penheimer brutally highlights their
problem.

As our enemies multiply their
arms and arsenals for the war they
believe inevitable, we reduce our
own; and, at the same time, curtail
our commitments for economic and
military assistance to our allies.

Surrendering to fear, we have
turned our backs on the genius and
meaning of our Constitution and its
Bill of Rights and permitted an
ego-maniac despot in the Senate of

the United States to destroy the
meaning and most sacred principles
of this great Nation.

In the hysteria of a nuclear and
thermo-nuclear age, we have al-
lowed a false god called “Anti-
Communism” or “Security” to be
raised amongst us, and we have per-
mitted the ugly priests of that cult
of conformity wantonly to destroy
character, to assail Constitutional
government, and to run roughshod
over science, the arts and letters,
education, religion and even the
proud United States Army. Now
even graduates of the Naval Acad-
emy are denied diplomas for “‘se-
curity” reasons.

Worst of all, and as a natural
consequence of the events in Wash-
ington during these past few years,
a general air of suspicion among
neighbors has spread and infected
the cities and towns of all Amer-
ica. Every variety of “Ku-Kluxer”
known to man has thus been em-
boldened to bully its way into all
aspects of community life in Amer-
ica spreading fear and disunity.

This, then, is the prospect for
the future—the dark horizon that
faces the graduate of 1954.

Despite the dark and _ hopeless
outlook, I cling with determination
to the belief that these young men
will not fail, but will, by their con-
quest of that future, gloriously re-
publish the basic meanings of the
faith given them by Washington
and Lee.

Just beyond the athletic field and
on the horizon, stand a magnificent
ruin—Liberty Hall Academy. It is
a monument to the birth of a great
ideal on the frontier of this Na-
tion.

Those hardy Presbyterian minis-
ters and stout settlers of this val-
ley, who were the moving spirits
in founding the Academy, deter-
mined to make real the hopes kin-
dled in their breasts by the oppres-
sion they had fled. They had a
thirst for freedom and with it, a
vision of the future they were de-
termined to build in this new land,
in which their young men would
be armed to defend their new free-

11

dom with the sinews of knowledge
and truth.

Equipped with little more than
their invincible resolve to create the
society of their dreams with the
best of their wisdom and_ hard
work, their labors were rewarded
and a new civilization came into
being.

‘This struggle of men of strong
wills created a new race of spiritual
and mental giants. ‘The unbeliev-
able accomplishments of these men
were the product of their dedication
to a simple belief—the supremacy of
a just and loving God and the ne-
cessity that man be free as God had
created him. That simple but elo-
quent belief was then, and is today,
the cornerstone of this institution.

What has happened to our Na-
tion in 200 years since the founding
of Liberty Hall Academy?

We have conquered space and
distance. We have transformed our
countless areas of quiet and self-
sufficiency into a complex oneness,
in which every section of the Na-
tion, however remote, is dependent
upon the whole to feed, clothe,
house and amuse it. Not even a
burial is now a local product!

With this transition from the
wagon to the jet engine, our mag-
nificent isolation and insulation
from external events disappeared.
Now Indo-China is an urgent topic
on every street corner.

What, I ask again, ‘has happened
to us in 200 years?

I confess I don’t know. I can, at
best, only rationalize. But whatever
has happened has enfeebled us at a
moment when destiny calls for our
strength.

It seems to me that the driving
necessity for strong and disciplined
individuals has been removed. The
necessity of my father’s day to build
one’s own life and future, has given
way to the enticement of pension
plans, security and the well-adjusted
life. |

The flaming urge for individual
liberty has been replaced by the
urge to be like the most respectable
majority.

The pursuit of happiness epito-

12

mized by the lusty optimism, the
daring and the unregimented wills
of the Founders of Liberty Hall
Academy, has now become the end-
less scheming of our people for the
avoidance of discomfort.

The moving and inspiring ideals
of freedom, individualism and
strength of character have become
the sickly search for security, con-
formity and supine adjustment.

In education, there is an almost
universal acceptance in our educa-
tional institutions of the need for
utilitarian knowledge. ‘Thus, you
find respectable colleges offering
courses in Labor Psychology, Con-
sumer Education and the like!

The prospective consumer of
higher education today seems bent
on shopping the halls of learning
to find that place where he may be
assured that he can learn the exact
way to make a stated income in a
particular trade or calling.

Liberal Arts courses are consider-
ed time-wasters by the modern
American, hell-bent for a _ secure
future with the Big Company that
promises a pension, paid hospitali-
zation and membership in_ the
Country Club!

You know, there is to me a ter-
rible indictment of our Civilization
and Society in the deflection to the
Communists of American soldiers
in Korea. I am tortured by the testi-
mony of some of these men.

We somehow expect these youngs-
ters to possess the kind of courage
and inner stamina that can endure
unto death—qualities possessed only
by men with ideals which they hold
more priceless than life itself. Yet,
the moral and spiritual climate of
our Nation has failed to give them
those ideals in this cynical era of
“the quick buck,” for we have
somehow lost those ideals ourselves.

My eternal reverence for this in-
stitution comes from the realization
that here is preserved the living fire
of America’s beginnings. Here the
simple but matchless ideals that are
the taproots of America’s grandeur
still flourish. Here there has been
no real change in the beginning
philosophy, of educational goals.

The education received by the
Class of 1954 1s not a mirror of
the weakness of our Society; for
the unaltered objective of Washing-
ton and Lee is to develop strong
men with independent judgments.
Men who have the capacity and de-
sire to swim against the current.
Men who do not find it comfortable
to conform by adjustment to the
defects of their environment, but
who have the will and the courage
to remedy those defects.

Dr. Shannon in his lectures on
Shakespeare and Chaucer had no
purpose to prepare script men for
Hollywood, but to excite the minds
of his students with the sweet of
pageantry, the beauty of great hu-
man expression and to salt the mind
for a thirst to read the great and
beautiful literature of the world.

“Liv” Smith’s peppery lectures
in higher mathematics were not in-
tended by him to equip future sta-
tisticians with job requirements,
but to expose young minds to the
disciplines of mathematical logic.

Washington and Lee’s only train-
ing for specific accomplishment in
life is for the old-fashioned business
of being free and independent!

A preparatory school classmate of
mine, now a Headmaster, passed on
to me a copy of a letter from the
father of two of his boys. ‘This father
said:

“In turning over my boys to
you educators, I do not ask that
you make them well-adjusted in-
dividuals. I see too many young
people who are so well adjusted
that in comparison a cow stand-
ing in its meadow seems a com-
plicated and elaborate creature.
The kind of studies that we must
work toward have for their es-
sential aim that of destroying easy
adjustments, of throwing young
men off their balance, of putting
them out of tune with the hum
of their immediate surroundings.
And thereby a new balance 1s
achieved, an equilibrium of mov-
ing forces, like a boat sailing
close-hauled to the wind. But
first there must be the stretching,
this mental and spiritual enlarge-
ment, this tension of a wire that
sings.

This is the same unroyal road to
learning that every student here

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

must travel. It was this quality that
impelled General Lee to become
President of the College, for in it
he found the surest vehicle for the
restoration of a stricken Southland.

History reminds us that 14 out
of 19 great civilizations committed
suicide. Each of them lost its pur-
pose and its way.

The basic and fundamental ideal
that brought America into being
was the instrument of its incred-
ible growth to pre-eminence, its
Freedom—or individual liberty.

If the warnings of history are to
be heeded, is it not clear that the
ideal of Liberty Hall Academy—the
faith of free men proclaimed in our
Declaration of Independence and
Bill of Rights must be recaptured?
If so, then there must be a new dis-
cipline of mind and a fresh dedi-
cation to original purpose by our
people, so that we will never again
suffer a McCarthy.

The perpetuation of this spirit is
the dedicated purpose of Washing-
ton and Lee; and this spirit offers
to America the way to regain its
faith in itself and to become again
the master of its destiny.

This spirit of Liberty Hall Aca-
demy proclaims freedom!

Not the freedom of the ruthless,
the unbridled will.

Not the freedom to do as one
likes.

Not the freedom from material
needs.

It is the freedom of the spirit of
educated minds. Minds bent upon
the search for truth, unhampered by
fears or altered by coercion.

It is the freedom of those who,
loving liberty, willingly bear its
responsibilities.

It is the freedom and indepen-
dence of those who are thinking
and rational men. Men who can
examine the world about them—
and all human events—and make
decisions with quiet courage and
deliberation.

It is the freedom that accepts the
disagreements of their fellow men
as a part of the necessary process
of understanding.

SEPTEMBER 1954

 

H. GRAHAM Morison, A.B. ’30, LL.B. °32,
practicing attorney, former assistant at-
torney general, and author of this ad-
dress given at the 1954 Alumni Reunion.

It is the spirit that equates free-
dom with rights of others to be
wrong.

It is the spirit that conforms to
nothing which heart and mind do
not accept and so will never ex-
change liberty for security.

It is the freedom of the Christian
faith which prayerfully respects the
temple of individuality in every
other human breast.

To be a merchant of gloom is not
for me a happy role, but, in keeping
with the tradition of this institu-
tion, I have painfully spelled out
truth as I see it—that proud Amer-
ica has lost the talisman of its spir-
itual strength.

However, in this place my fears
disappear and hopes rise anew; for
Washington and Lee gives to the
Nation good men who bear the an-
cient faith. Men who have learned
here to be calm and unafraid; who
can look the future hard in the face,
sure of their capacity to live in that
future in a liberal and lofty fashion.

These spiritual sons of Lee have
hearts to feel and minds to compre-
hend, and the courage and strength
of soul to meet the demands of each
new day, challenging its evils and
exciting, by act and deed, the hope
and faith of the weary, the fright-
ened and the oppressed.

The dedication and __ historic
American purpose has _ always
abided here. It is this faith-keeping
of majestic principle that, above all
else, binds us to this institution;
and we proclaim to America that
its Excalibur rests here.

I found support for these hopes
I have imperfectly expressed in a
passage from a speech delivered by

» Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes over

40 years ago, and I would leave you
with his ageless wisdom:

“As I grow older I grow calm.
If I feel what are perhaps an old
man’s apprehensions, that compe-
tition from new races will cut
deeper than working men’s dis-
putes and will test whether we
can hang together and can fight;
if I fear that we are running
through the world’s resources at a
pace that we cannot keep; I do
not lose my hopes. I do not pin
my dreams for the future to my
country or even to my race. I
think it probable that civiliza-
tion somehow will last as long as
I care to look ahead—perhaps
with smaller numbers, but per-
haps also bred to greatness and
splendor by science. I think it not
improbable that man, like the
grub that prepares a chamber for
the winged thing it never has seen
but is to be—that man may have
cosmic destinies that he does not
understand. And so beyond the
vision of battling races and an
improverished earth I catch a
dreaming glimpse of peace.

“The other day my dream was
pictured to my mind. It was eve-
ning. I was walking homeward
on Pennsylvania Avenue near
the Treasury, and as I looked be-
yond Sherman’s statue to the
west the sky was aflame with scar-
let and crimson from the setting
sun. But like the note of down-
fall in Wagner’s opera, below the
sky line there came from little
globes the pallid discord of the
electric lights. And I thought to
myself the Gotterdamerung will
end, from those globes clustered
like evil eggs will come the new
masters of the sky. It is like the
time in which we live. But then
I remembered the faith that I
have partly expressed, faith in a
universe not measured by our
fears, a universe that has thought
and more than thought inside of
it, and as I gazed, after the sun-
set and above the electric lights,
there shone the stars.”

i

You will be interested in the

Association’s Business

™ THE ANNUAL MEETING of the
Alumni Association was called to
order at 11:15 a.m. on Friday, June
11, 1954, by Mr. W. L. Webster,
President. On motion, duly made,
reading of the minutes of the June
1953 general alumni meeting was
dispensed with. Mr. H. K. Young,
Alumni Secretary, gave his annual
report. That report appears on
these pages.

Mr. Donald E. Smith, Director of
University Development, was in-
troduced to the assembled alumni.
Briefly he explained the purposes
and plans of the University De-
velopment Program, the newest ad-
ministrative venture at Washington
and Lee. He stated his office had
been charged with the responsibil-
ity of determining what the Univer-
sity needs are now and what they
will be in the foreseeable future; of
studying the total University rela-
tionships with the varied publics;
and of analyzing and establishing
the fund-raising operation which in
due time will function on the cam-
pus.

Mr. Webster paid tribute to
“Cap’n Dick” Smith, retiring as
Athletic Director after 33 years of
loyal, diligent, and successful ser-
vice to the University. Mr. Young
and Mr. Webster presented “Cap’n
Dick” a gift of silver candelabra
as a token of appreciation from the
alumni.

Mr. Otto M. Stumpf,,’18, made a
report for the Nominating Com-
mittee (the other members were
H. N. Barker, ’14, and Thomas D.
Anderson, 34), as follows:

For the Athletic Committee: W.
EF. ‘Tilson, ’26, Lexington, Virginia,
and James J. Izard, 18, Roanoke,
Virginia.

14

For the Alumni Board: Martin
P. Burks, ’32, Roanoke, Virginia,
to serve the unexpired term of
Stewart Buxton, ’36; Howard W.
Dobbins, ’42, Richmond, Virginia;
and Stuard A. Wurzburger, ’28,
New York City, for a period of three
years each.

‘There were no nominations from
the floor. By motion duly made, sec-
onded and carried, it was voted that
this slate of nominations be adopted
unanimously.

Mr. Webster announced the time
and place of other events on the
1954 Alumni Reunion calendar and
urged that all alumni attend these
festivities.

Mr. Jared A. Close, ’45, asked for
consideration of a plan whereby
future reunions be held on Friday,
Saturday and Sunday, making it
possible for many more alumni to
attend—the weekend being a time
more generally free from pressures
of business. Mr. Webster said this
point would be discussed at the
next meeting of the Alumni Board.

The high spot of the meeting was
a report from President Gaines on
the state of the University. He said
the year had been a remarkable
one. ‘The University entered the
year with a tremendous number of
applications and received an ex-
ceptionally good freshman class.
Early in the fall it was learned that
Washington and Lee was to. receive
one of the largest bequests that have
come to the institution. The aca-
demic year was better; more boys
were qualified for Phi Beta Kappa
than ever before; nine boys entered
the ministry from the graduating
class; more boys have won scholar-
ships. Also, continued Dr. Gaines,
“we have witnessed the severest

test but greatest direction of student
government this institution ever
had.’’*

Directing his remarks along
alumni lines, Dr. Gaines pointed
out that 180 boys were sent into the
world on June 4 as members of the
alumni fraternity with every confi-
dence that they would be worthy of
that very real distinction.

President Gaines declared he was
especially thankful for two forms
of aid rendered by alumni, first of
all, the help they have given in
trying to interest the right kind of
boy in Washington and Lee. He
emphasized that Washington and
Lee is not looking for numbers but
is rather looking for dedicated, cul.
tured, honorable, useful men who
in themselves are entitled to join
the “alumni fraternity.” Also he
stressed the importance of the
Alumni Fund and stated that it is
now an indispensable part of the
University.

In closing, Dr. Gaines com-
mented that he wished there were
more things the University could
do for the alumni. He indicated
that one project under considera-
tion is that of establishing an alum-
ni headquarters so that when the
alumni come back they will know
that a place has been set aside ex-
plicitly for them.

‘The meeting adjourned to the
front of Lee Chapel where Mr.
Webster, in one of the surprise fea-
tures of the Alumni Reunion, pre-
sented Dr. Gaines a 1954 Lincoln
Capri automobile, a token of alum-
ni esteem to mark the beginning
of his 25th year as president.

SECRETARY’S REPORT

m FOR A QUARTER of a century I have
been making a June report to our
Alumni Association. When I made
my first report in 1930 our beloved
former dean, Robert H. Tucker,
was acting president. We were wait-
ing for Dr. Gaines, our new presi-
dent, to move to the campus and

*He was referring here to the Honor
System violations exposed during the final
examination period.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

take up his duties in July. For
further background on that occa-
sion I might go on to reminisce
that Mr. George W. St. Clair was
the Rector of the University’s Board
of Trustees; and some of the other
University officials then in office
were Harry Campbell, Academic
Dean; Paul M. Penick, secretary-
treasurer; “Boss” Moreland, Dean
of the Law School; Reid White, Sr.,
the college doctor; and Earl Mat-
tingly, registrar.

Although the stock market crash
and the depression were the main
topics of the times, still our student
body in that year 1930 numbered
gig. And then, as now, the students
appeared to me to be the finest pos-
sible group of young gentlemen.

I recall that when I gave an ac-
count of my first year’s duties as
Alumni Secretary, I spoke to the
alumni at a luncheon held in the
old Dining Hall, a building that
serves now as the University Supply
Store. The late Judge Edwin C.
Caffrey, ‘09, was president of the
Alumni Association. ‘There was no
financial statement to present be-
cause there was no Alumni Fund
then and some seven or eight thous-
and alumni had neglected to pay
their membership dues!

At this time your Association
had only a part-time secretary; half
of my time was spent in coaching
athletics. Our office force consisted

BuRKS

SEPTEMBER 1954

 

of one full-time assistant, most able
and efficient but overworked. Our
equipment consisted of a com-
pletely out-of-date, even then, “or-
gan grinder-type’” addressing ma-
chine, one roll-top desk, and one
4-drawer file case. Of the 6,500
alumni then in our files, half were
unlocated. ‘The University  fur-
nished the postage and also paid all
other expenses of the office.

We believe we have made prog-
gress. We have been paying our
own way for many years and for
several years the proceeds of the
Alumni Fund have been turned
over to the Trustees of the Univer-
sity as unrestricted funds to be

 

DOBBINS

used wherever they will do the most
good for the University. Dr. Gaines
has said that Annual Giving has
assumed in recent years the vital
role of making it possible for Wash-
ington and Lee to maintain and im-
prove its standards of education.
We now have a staff of four office
assistants and I stopped coaching
years ago. We have a room lined
with filing cabinets containing rec-
ords on thousands of alumni. We
have the newest in office equipment
and supplies. We invite your in-
spection.

Last September Donald E. Smith
joined the University’s administra-
tive staff as Director of University
Development. He fills a need long
felt on this campus. His office is

 

WURZBURGER

charged with determining Wash-
ington and Lee’s long-range needs;
with interpreting the University’s
functions, and its needs, to its var-
ious publics; and with organizing
and servicing the fund-raising pro-
grams looking to the fulfillment of
those needs.

In my association with other
alumni secretaries and with devel-
opment officers of other institu-
tions, I am well acquainted with
what other schools are doing. I am
positive that no school has made
more progress in one year’s time
in a development program than has
Washington and Lee since Septem-
ber under the direction of Don
Smith. In addition to his own work,
he and his staff have aided greatly
in the workings of the Alumni Of-
fice. I wish to thank him in this re-
port for his fine cooperation. And
a little later in this morning’s pro-
eram he himself will tell you some-
thing of plans for our future.

Let me take you back for a mo-
ment now to 1933, that “red letter”
date on the Washington and Lee
alumni calendar. In that year Wal-
ter McDonald, as president of the
Alumni Association, was instru-
mental in establishing and organ-
izing our Alumni Fund. Five
hundred and sixteen alumni con-
tributed $3,750 in our first effort at
alumni Annual Giving. Through
the years our Fund totals have
shown steady increase. And every

15

year we have sought new ways to
stimulate interest in and promote
growth of this fund—a tangible ex-
pression of alumni loyalty to Alma
Mater. As of this date, our alumni
have contributed to this Fund ap-
proximately $400,000 in the past
twenty-two years.

We should be mindful of the
fact that despite the encouraging
gains which the Fund has made
over the years, there are many Uni-
versity needs as yet unsatisfied. In
line with this thought, your Alumni
Board at its 1953 June meeting es-
tablished an Alumni Fund Coun-
cil composed of six members of
the Association, appointed by the
president, whose purpose and func-
tion is “to propose, to approve and
to authorize plans and methods for
promoting and conducting the an-
nual campaign for the Alumni
Fund.” To that end, the Council
would possess the full powers of
the Board. The following were im-
mediately appointed. Messrs. Paul
C.. Buford, ’13, Kenneth P. Lane,
‘36, H. Graham Morison, ’30, Mil-
ton B. Rogers, ’17, I. M. Scott, ‘BY;
and George B. Wilkinson, ‘26
(with the Alumni President and
the Alumni Secretary as ex-officio
members). Mr. Rogers was elected
chairman of the group and Mr. Bu-
ford, vice-chairman. The Alumni
Fund Council has had three meet-
ings, and because of its guidance
and devotion I am glad to be able
to report your Alumni Fund has
had the best year since its incep-
tion in 1933:

We have received a total of
$50,025.34 from 1,824 contributors.

To get in line with the Univer-
sity’s fiscal year, the Council sug-
gested that the Alumni Fund be or-
ganized on a July 1 to June go an-
nual basis. We had previously op-
erated on a calendar year. As of this
day the number of contributors for
1954 1s a few hundred short of our
all-time record but is still far more
than we have ever had before on a
comparable date. With our base
broadened, I feel certain another
year will bring the participation in

16

our Fund to a level we have long
hoped to achieve.

In looking back over previous
reports I notice I have from time to
time commented at length on the
activities of our local alumni chap-
ters, our student-alumni relations
program, the Alumni Magazine,
preparations for Homecoming, and
all the items that make up the daily
office routine. These phases grow
increasingly important and we are
not neglecting them or minimizing
them this year. However, they will
not be dealt with in this report.

In closing, allow me to pay a
debt of thanks to all those who have
helped make possible this new
epoch in University development.
First of all, may I congratulate you
upon the officers and directors of
your Association. Mr. W. L. Web-
ster, your president, has given un-

selfishly of his time and talents in
promoting the welfare of our or-
ganization and the University. He
and your directors have come from
great distances to attend meetings.
They have done a magnificent job.

Also I want to pay special tribute
to the newly organized Alumni
Fund Council and particularly to
its chairman, Colonel Milton B.
Rogers. He has spent many hours
with us and his direction and ad-
vice and assistance, together with
the guidance and devotion of all
the Council members, have proved
invaluable.

Of course I must take a moment,
too, for a salute to the Class Agents
and to the Regional Agents. After
all, they have been and will con-
tinue to be the core of an effective
Alumni Fund Program.

 

04 Dr. JOHN Henry Day, after 28

years as pastor of Seventh Baptist Church
Baltimore, Maryland, the largest church of
that denomination in Maryland, retired at
the end of March, 1954. He will continue
to live in Baltimore, address being 702
The Blackstone, Charles and 33rd, Balti-
more 18, Maryland.

/ 7 WILLIAM A. REID, vice-president
and cashier of the First National Bank
of Troutville, Virginia, and his wife re-
cently enjoyed a two and a half-month
cruise visiting most of the countries bor-
dering on the Mediterranean. They had a
wonderful trip, but came home more con-
vinced than ever that the United States
is after all, the best place on earth to live.

MAJOR GENERAL CLEMENT MCMULLEN re-
tired February 28, 1954, from the United
States Air Force with the grade of Major
General after almost 31 years of active
military service. At the time of his re-
tirement he was the oldest pilot officer
on active duty in the military services
and fourth in seniority of all regular Air

Force Major Generals. He has three sons
who are active pilot officers in the Air
Force and another who is a petroleum en-
gineer. He is making his home at 515 La-
mont Avenue, San Antonio 9, Texas.

/ 3 HERBERT T. TAYLOR, 1619 West
Laburnum Avenue, Richmond 27, Vir-
ginia, has three sons, all married and all
of whom served in World War II, and
four grandchildren.

JupGE Epwarp S. DELAPLAINE has been un-
der heavy pressure of work since he be-
came a member of the Court of Appeals
of Maryland in 1938. Address: Frederick,
Maryland.

Dr. FRANCIS PHILIPS GARDNER, after re-
ceiving his medical degree from Virginia,
served in the Navy until 1947, when he
retired. Address: ‘‘“Nowatchee,”’ Eau Gallie,
Florida.

/ 6 EcHOL S. MARSHALL spent over four
years with the du Pont Company, followed

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

by 26 years of tin can manufacturing, and
then graduated to complete retirement.
The Marshalls have two fine children, a
daughter, happily married to a successful
metallurgist in Birmingham, Alabama,
with a daughter 13; and a son who gradu-
ated in Engineering from the University
of Virginia in 1953, now a Lieutenant in
the Marine Corps, presently at Cherry
Point, but destined for Korea early in
September. Address: 1228 grd Street, S.W.,
Roanoke, Virginia.

/ 7 WILLIAM H. BRANDON, M.D., Bran-
don Clinic, P. O. Box 688, Clarksdale, Mis-
sissippi, writes that his son, Bill, was mar-
ried June 15, having graduated from the
University of Mississippi in June, where
he was a Lt. Colonel in the University of
Mississippi Air Corps of the R.O.T.C. His
daughter, Betty, is married to Lt. James
W. Kissick, Jr., of the Naval Air Service.
They are stationed at Pensacola, Florida.
The youngest boy is a junior at Tennes-
see Military Institute, Sweetwater, Ten-
nessee. He graduates next year and wishes
to enter Washington and Lee.

2 0 ‘THomMAS M. (Mac) Stusss has been
teaching law for the past seven years at
the University of South Carolina in Co-
lumbia and spends most of each week
there. His home and law office are in
Sumter, South Carolina.

2i Dr. R. D. GarcIn, JR., purchased
a new home last fall, just outside the
city limits of Richmond in Henrico Coun-
ty. His address is 3605 Dill Road, Rich-
mond 22, Virginia.

23 MELVILLE IRVINE DUNN, assistant

vice-president of the Chesapeake & Ohio
Railway Company at Huntington, West
Virginia, has been appointed vice-presi-
dent—construction and maintenance. Mr.
Dunn entered railroad service as a rod-

man for C. & O. in 1916 in Huntington,

resigning to enter Washington and Lee
and received his B. S. degree in 1923. He
rejoined the C. & O. as instrumentman at
Huntington, subsequently serving as as-
sistant engineer, assistant division en-
gineer, trainmaster, division and general
superintendent, superintendent freight
transportation, and assistant general man-
ager. He was appointed assistant vice-
president in January 1953.

24 Howarp D. LEAKE and JOHN HEN-
DON, ‘24, are so busy with their car park-
ing business in 8 different cities that their
wives have to do most of their corres-
pondence with the Alumni Office. In May
they attended the National Parking Asso-
ciation in Chicago, of which John is the
retiring president and Howard is “his man
Friday.” Address: 1631 Third Avenue
North, Birmingham, Alabama.

SEPTEMBER 1954

 

The City of Garfield, New Jersey, is in the capable hands of an all-Washington and

 

Lee administration. Pictured above, left to right: JoHN J. HupDAK, ’23, city treas-
urer; EMIL J. SADLOCK, '28, mayor; and ‘THEODORE R. CIESLA, °43, city attorney.

Joun E. WELLs is still operating the Wells
Furniture Manufacturing Company which
he organized in 1934. His son, John, is a
Naval jet pilot recently on the Midway in
the Mediterraean, .and his daughter,
Edith, is now married and lives in Pasca-
goula, Mississippi. Address: Laurel, Mis-
sissippi.

GEORGE MERCKE, JR., has been with the
Jefferson Wood Working Company, Louis-
ville, Kentucky, since leaving college in
1924. The older of his two sons entered
Washington and Lee as a freshman thi»
year.

25 Cary A. MoomMaw has been in con-

struction work most of the time since
leaving school. He had been on a job
in Iceland for nineteen months when his
letter was written on July 18, and while
his work there had been most interesting
he says a top coat still felt good but hoped
for a few warm days before the snows
begin in early October. His home is in
Roanoke, Virginia, and he gets back there
between jobs. Present address: Care of
M.H.S.B. Companies, APO 81, care of
P. M., New York.

2 Dr. BURCHARD S. PRUETT was a VisSi-

tor to the campus in August. Address:
6006 Virginia Avenue, St. Louis 11, Mis-
souri.

ZACK RoGeERs is president of Zack Rogers
Associates, Inc., Manufacturers Agent,
hospital orthopedic and fracture equip-
ment, 788 Ponce de Leon Avenue, N.E.,
Atlanta, Georgia.

LE WILLIAM C. (BILL) NorMAN, The

Crosset Company, manufacturers of forest

products, Crosset, Arkansas, has a_ son,
WILLIAM C. JR., now in school here.

29 JosepH L. Lockett, Jr., writes,

“There’s mighty little change from year
to year in a lawyer’s life, except maybe
in weight and gray hair. My weight re-
mains the same; the gray hair increases.”
He has a large law practice, as counsel
for various industries and railroads, in the
firm of Lockett, Lockettt, and Tallichet
of Houston, Texas.

HENRY P. JOHNSTON is president and
managing director of ‘The ‘Television Cor-
poration, P. O. Box 2553, Birmingham 2,
Alabama, operating stations WAPI-
WAFM-WABT.

JAMEs WILLIAM BAILEY moved from Blue-
field, West Virginia, several months ago
and is now with Highway Machinery and
Supply Company in the material han-
dling division, in Salem, Virginia. He has
one son, now at V.E.S., who tops him at
six feet one inch, age 16. Address: 301
Idaho Street, Salem, Virginia.

J. M. SHACKELFORD is president, New York
Chapter, National Society for Business
Budgeting. He is also a member of the
Board of ‘Trustees, First Presbyterian
Church, Metuchen, New Jersey. Address:
25 Clinton Place, Metuchen, New Jersey.

RoBeErT B. LEE is still with Bankers Trust
Co., 16 Wall Street, New York, where he
is a vice-president in the commercial
banking division, traveling very often in
the southeastern states. This gives him an
opportunity to keep up with classmates.

30 Dr. STANLEY F. HAMPTON is in pri-
vate practice of Internal Medicine and Al-
lergy and an assistant professor of Clinical

17

 

Medicine at Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis. At the annual
meeting of The American Academy of

Allergy, February 1-3, he was made
president-elect of that medical society.

Dr. JoHN P. LyNncu has been elected a
trustee of the Richmond Academy of

Medicine for the year 1954. Address: 1000
W. Grace Street, Richmond 20, Virginia.

3 / Dr. Epwarp M. Ritey, chief park
historian at Independence National His-
torical Park in Philadelphia, has been
named director of research for Colonial
Williamsburg. Dr. Riley has served as
historian for the Colonial National His-
torical Park covering both Yorktown and
Williamsburg. Dr. Riley is the son of Dr.
Franklin L. Riley, professor of history at
Washington and Lee, 1914-1929.

Dr. GEORGE ALLEN FLEECE is president of
Columbia Bible College, Columbia, South
Carolina.

3 2 Rosser L. MALONE of the law firm

6090080060008 09OO0SCO9O088H8HHH8OO8HHHOH80888O808H888HOO88

we WALTER E. HorrMan, LL.B. ’31,
was appointed by President Eisen-
hower as United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of
Virginia on June 29, 1954, con-
firmed by the Senate, and received
his Commission from the President
on July 15, 1954; and took the oath
of office on September 3, 1954, at
the Federal Court in Norfolk.

Judge Hoffman was born in Jer-
sey City, New Jersey, on July 18,
1907, and after attending prepara-
tory schools in New Jersey, matric-
ulated at University of Pennsylva-
nia School of Finance and Com-
merce, from which he graduated
with the B.S. degree in Economics
in 1928. His family had moved to
Norfolk, Virginia, and after one
year in the Law School of William
and Mary he entered the Law
School at Washington and Lee in
1929 and was graduated with the
LL.B. degree in 1931. Since that
time he has practiced law in Nor-
folk as a member of the firm of
Breedin & Hoffman, with offices in
the National Bank of Commerce
Building.

He was Instructor and Assistant
Professor of Law at the College of
William and Mary on a part-time
basis, and was Referee in Bank-
ruptcy for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Norfolk Division, from
1942 to 1944, when he resigned that
office. He has served as president,
Norfolk and Portsmouth Bar Asso-

18

ciation, vice-president, Norfolk and
Portsmouth Bar Association and
vice-president, Virginia State Bar
Association.

While at Pennsylvania he became
a member of Delta Upsilon, social
fraternity and of Phi Delta Phi,
legal fraternity, at Washington and
Lee; and was elected to Omicron
Delta Kappa as an honorary alum-
nus here in 1950.

Judge Hoffman was married to
Evelyn Virginia Watkins in 1939
and they have two children, Carole
Lee, born January 5, 1941, and
Walter Edward, born August 16,
1943. Ihe family home is at 1489
Emory Place, Norfolk, Virginia.

 

of Atwood & Malone, Roswell, New Mex-
ico, has been commuting to Washington
as a member of the Task Force of the
Hoover Commission on Legal Service and
Procedure in the Executive Branch of the
Government. He is chairman of ‘Task
Group No. 1 which has the responsibility
of making recommendations to increase
the efficiency and economy of the perform-
ance of all legal functions in the Executive
Branch of the Government and also will
make recommendations as to the recruit-
ment, tenure and compensation of Govern-
ment lawyers.

SHERWOOD WISE is still doing business at
the old stand as a member of the law firm
of Byrd, Wise and Smith, 1007 Deposit
Guaranty Bank Building, Jackson 5, Mis-
sissippi. ‘There are five children in the
Wise family ranging in ages from 14 years
to twins 21%. |

33 _ SHELBY BLATTERMAN sold his farm
in May’s Lick, Kentucky, in 1952, and
moved to Oak Park, Illinois, where he is
working in a retail store. After farming for
21 years, he admits to having gained a lot
of experience along many lines.

WALLACE WERBLE is editor of F-D-C-
Reports, a weekly Washington trade pub-
lication for top executives in the drug
and cosmetic industries, and F-D-C- Drug
Letter, a weekly news letter for retail
pharmacists. He has been editing the
former for over 15 years—with two years
out for the Army—and he established the
latter three years ago. The Werbles have
two sons, Wallace, Jr., 11 years old, and
Cole Palmer, 3 years. Address: 3311 Ritten-
house Street, Washington, D. C.

WILLIAM J. Brooks, JR., has been named
Atlanta zone manager for Pontiac Motor
Division. He will manage Pontiac sales
operations among dealers in Florida, Geor-
gia, Alabama and parts of other Southern
states. Address: 1284 Cumberland Road,
N. E., Atlanta, Georgia.

T. DEALE BLANCHARD is_ president-treas-
urer of Blanchard’s, Inc., coal-fuel oil-hard-
ware at 3410 High Street, Portsmouth,
Virginia. He has recently taken on two new
jobs for the coming year—president of the
Portsmouth Retail Merchants Association,
and vice-president and finance chairman of
the Elizabeth Manor Golf and Country
Club.

HoMER G. RAY, Jr., is still in the peanut
and vegetable oil business—Georgia Peanut
Company, at Moultrie, Georgia. He has
four children, “three queens and a very
wild king, doing the usual round of
civic and charitable offices and, in general,
going through most of the things that
those who graduated in 1933 are going
through—a touch of gray at the temples,
etc.”

Dr. Topp DrEvAN has changed his title
from “Colonel” back to “Doctor,” having
been separated from the Medical Corps
of the U.S. Army on October 9, 1953, after

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

gs GEORGE OLDHAM CLARKE, LL.B.
"28, is president of the Kentucky
State Bar Association for 1954. Hav-
ing attended the meetings of the
Board of Bar Commissioners as
president-elect, for the whole of
last year, he is not a stranger to the
duties he is facing as president.

Mr. Clarke was born 50 years
ago at Falmouth, Kentucky. He at-
tended school in Frankfort, Ken-
tucky, and was graduated from the
Washington and Lee Law School
in 1928 with the LL.B. degree.
Since that time he has been prac-
ticing law in Jefferson County. In
1951 he was President of the Louis-
ville Bar Association. He is the
son of the Hon. Ernest S. Clarke,
Judge of the Kentucky Court cf
Appeals from 1915 to 1926.

In addition to an active and
varied practice he has served as

 

CLARKE—a presidency

a U.S. District Attorney, as a Coun-
ty Commissioner, and as a County
Judge Pro-tem. At present he is a
member of the law firm of Mc-

Elwain, Dinning, Clarke and Win-
stead with offices in the Kentucky
Home Life Building, Louisville,
Kentucky.

Mr. Clarke married Louisa Hoge
in 1929 and they have two children,
a daughter, Louisa French, living at
home, and a son on duty with the
U. S. Navy.

The honor that goes with the
leadership of some four thousand
Kentucky lawyers, is accompanied
by the responsibilities of maintain-
ing high ethical standards in the
Bar’s ranks; fostering proper re-
spect and support for the Courts;
and maintaining a constant watch
on the legal rights of all the Com-
monwealth’s citizens in their con-
tacts with lawyers, with the courts
and with each other. Mr. Clarke is
worthy of the honor and capable of
assuming the responsibilities.

$0606 O0060SHHHO0ESHOGHOOGSEO8HOHOHHOHHOH0GOOHOHHOHOOHHHHHHHHHHOO8OO088H8HH0OGH88808888008

13 years active duty, for a total of 20 years
service. He is now in private practice,
restricted to General Surgery in Hanover,
Pennsylvania. Reports the birth of a third
son on August 4, 1953. Address: 213 Eichel-
berger Street, Hanover, Pennsylvania.

3 4 Tuomas D. ANDERSON is vice-presi-
dent and trust officer of Texas National
Bank, Houston, Texas.

3 6 A. LEE REESER has been named to

represent the Commercial Division of ‘The

Wooster Rubber Company in Maryland,
Virginia, West Virginia and the District
of Columbia. He was with the sales di-
vision of the Minnesota Mining and Man-
ufacturing Company prior to World War
II during which he served with an Anti-
Aircraft unit.

3/ CLARK B. WINTER was elected a

vice-president of the American Express
Company on June 28, 1954. He joined the
company in 1946 as special assistant in the
executive offices and was later promoted to
assistant vice-president. He will remain in
the executive offives at the company’s
headquarters, 65 Broadway, New York,
New York. Mr. Winter had just com-
pleted in June an assignment as special as-
sistant to H. Chapman Rose, assistant sec-
retary of the treasury. During that time
he was located in Washington. Now that
he is back in New York, he has bought a

SEPTEMBER 1954

new home at 47 Locust Street, Garden City,
New York.

C. SPENCER ‘TERHUNE is now with the sales
staff of Sprunt & Dunn, Packard dealers, of
Hackensack, New Jersey. Address: 337
Byron Place, Maywood, New Jersey.

PARKE Rouse, JR., a Colonial Williams-
burg administrative official, has been
named executive director of the Virginia
Commission for the 1957 Jamestown cele-
bration. He has been granted a leave of
absence from Colonial Williamsburg,
where he has been special assistant to

 

WINTER—@ vice-presidency

Carlisle Humelsine, executive vice-presi-
dent.

STEPHENSON WELLS, formerly president of
Wells, Elliott & Co., Inc., of Minneapolis,
Minnesota, has been appointed resident
manager of the new office of Baxter, Wil-
liams & Co., at 231 S. LaSalle Street, Chi-
cago 4, Illinois, Baxter, Williams & Co.,
having recently purchased the business of
Wells, Elliott & Co.

COLONEL ARCHIBALD A. SPROUL is now
senior officer of Virginia units of the
Twenty-ninth Division of the National
Guard. Sproul, a Staunton, Virginia, in-
surance man, is commanding officer of
the 116th Regiment.

C. ARNOLD MATTHEWS is now out of the
Navy and back teaching at the University
of Florida. He has been promoted to
Commander in the Naval Reserves Supply
Corps. Address: 1626 N. W. 7th Avenue,
Gainesville, Florida.

3 & JOHN OLIVER GLUYAS was awarded
the degree of LL.B. from Rutgers, the
State University of New Jersey, on June
9, 1954. Home address: 57 Avon Road,
Haddonfield, New Jersey.

J. Hrram SniTH, after spending four years
in aerial mapping in New England for the
U.S.G.S., has been transferred to a pro-
ject with the Engineering Branch, U.S.G:S.
in Arizona.

GILBERT S. MEEM has recently completed a
course in Combustion Engineering at Penn
State to round out his knowledge in coal

19

 

mining and sales to industrial consumers.
Address: 705 Spring Garden Drive, Blue-
field, West Virginia.

39 V. A. Snow, Jr. has been ap-

pointed director of sales promotion of
Belknap Hardware Co., in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He joined Belknap in 1939 and
was territorial salesman in Virginia before
entering the Armed Forces during World
War II. In 1948 Snow returned to the firm
as special sales manager and later served
as western divisional sales manager. Resi-
dence: 1419 Willow Avenue, Louisville 4,
Kentucky.

40 Homer D. Jones has been with
Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates since
graduation. For the past four years he has
been District Manager of one of their
companies, the New England Coal. and
Coke Company at Providence, Rhode Is-
land. In March he was transferred to the
main office in Boston. In Phillipian fash-
ion he writes: “My Sweet Briar bride has
her stresses with my faults, but thanks to
her, there is something in the till.”

4] WILLIAM L. EvANs, Jr., is a pilot
Captain for American Arlines based in
Fort Worth, Texas. He has four children,
three boys and a girl. Address: 3832 Wey-
burn Drive, Fort Worth, Texas.

RicHARD W. SMITH, Staunton, Virginia,
attorney, was elected to a four-year term
on the Staunton city council on June 8,

1954-

HENRY J. (JEFF) Kiser is living at Coe-
burn, Virginia, where he is manager of
Giles Motor Co. He has a drive-in theatre
at Blackwood, Virginia, about 4 miles from
Norton on the Norton-Appalachia road,
“Central Drive-In Theater.” He married
a Coeburn girl and they have a four year
old son, Jeffrey Giles.

STEPHEN E. CAMPBELL, JR., is representa-
tive for Progressive Grocer Magazine, trade
magazine for super markets—said to be
one of the finest merchandising publica-
tions in the country. He was married to
Lois Simpson, June 4, 1944, and they
have three children, Sandy Campbell, age
six, Clayton Campbell, age three, and
Cynthia Campbell, age two. Address: 231
Blacksmith Road, Levettown, New York.

20

Louis A. PATERNO is practicing law, with
offices in the Security Building, Charleston,
West Virginia. He writes that he is the
proud father of four sons, Louie, Jr., 11;
Andrew James, 6; Michael Charles, 3; and
Joseph Paul, 1.

47 LANE S. SARTOR, who was District

Geologist for Pan-Am Southern for some
years, has recently been made manager of
the Land Department of that company.

Dr. Puitip A. WILHITE, JR., has been prac-
ticing dermatology in Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia, since 1951. Address: 404 Washing-
ton Street, Portsmouth, Virginia.

NELSON C. STEENLAND now owns an ap-
preciable part of Gravity Meter Explora-
tion Company (GMX), in Houston. His
associates report brilliant work by Nelson.

Dr. Ropert E. LEAKE is practicing Ur-
ology in Covington, Kentucky. His home
address is 6 Broadview Place, Fort ‘Thomas,
Kentucky.

ROBERT W. Root writes that he “came out
of the war alive, got married and is now
raising two children.” He was a_ photo-
interpreter in the Navy during the war
and is now doing similar work for the
Air Force. He plans to go into commercial
oil work in the near future.

DANIEL CurTis LEwIs, JR., was granted the
degree of Doctor of Commercial Science
at the commencement exercises from
Harvard University on June 17, 1954. He

received the degree of M.B.A. from Har-.

vard in 1948.

ROBERT C. WALKER has resigned as ex-
ecutive vice-president and cashier of the
First National Bank of Lexington to ac-
cept the position of executive vice-presi-
dent of the Peninsula Bank & Trust Co.,
of Williamsburg, Virginia, effective Sep-
tember 1, 1954.

GEORGE E. KERNS, JR., is practicing law at

106 County Building, Media, Pennsylvania,.
and lives just outside the city. He is mar-

ried and has one son three years old. |

RICHARD B. SPINDLE, JR., is with the law
firm of Willcox, Cook & Willcox, with of-
fices in the National Bank of Commerce
Building, Norfolk 10, Virginia. Dick and
his wife Kitty, have two daughters, ages
six and three.

CLYDE E. Situ, Jr., has been associated
with his father in the general insurance
agency since 1947. He has recently been
elected as incoming State President of the
West Virginia Junior Chamber of Com-
merce. The Smiths have two children,
Candy, age 8, and Tripp, age 5. Address:
145 South Queen Street, Martinsburg,
West Virginia.

43 RALPH COHEN has been a Chemist
with the Bureau of Standards since Sep-
tember, 1943. Address: The Chancery

Apartments, 802, 3130 Wisconsin Avenue,
N. W., Washington, D.C.

Dr. GEORGE W. Priest completed his medi-
cal course at Ohio State and returned to
his home at 15 Wiltshire Boulevard, Day-
ton 9, Ohio, where he was to take the ex-
aminations for a state licence in June.

WiLLtiAM McCoy, Jr., is practicing law
with his father, William McCoy, Sr., in
Franklin, West Virginia. He is also a
member of the West Virginia House of
Delegates.

Dr. HAveEN W. MANKIN left the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, in Sep-
tember of 1951 for two years of active
duty with the Army (rank Captain).
Served ten months at the g8th General
Hospital in Munich, Germany, and then
thirteen months with the Division Artil-
lery of the 28th Infantry Division—split
time between Dillingen and Goppingen,
Germany. His family (wife, Mary Lou; two
sons: Haven D. and Reed W.) joined
him in Germany about four months after
his arrival. He has now returned to the
Mayo Clinic to complete his fellowship.
Address: 1612 Second Avenue, N.E., Ro-
chester, Minnesota.

PAUL M. SHUFORD is a member of the law
firm of Wicker, Baker and Shuford, with
offices at 501 Mutual Building, Richmond,
Virginia. He married Mary Campbell
Grant of Owensboro, Kentucky, and they
have two sons, Paul M., II, age three and
one-half, and David Gant, age six months.
Home address: 5308 Willow Lawn Road,
Richmond, Virginia.

44 James D. McLEAN, Jr., continues

to compile and publish the now-famous
McLean Card Catalogue of American For-
anifera from his office and laboratories
in Alexandria, Virginia. He has his own
printing and publishing plant.

T. W. (BILL) SOMMER (LL.B. ’47) is an at-
torney with the Regional Counsel’s Of-
fice, Internal Revenue Service, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma. Address: 717 N. W. 2gth,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

ALBERT H. DupDLey, Jr., M.D., began the
practice of obstetrics and gynecology last
July at 1201 North Calvert Street, Balti-
more 2, Maryland. Since leaving Washing-
ton and Lee he has completed medical
school, internship, Navy, hospital train-
ing, another tour in the Navy and finally
a last spell of residency training before
beginning practice.

46 Dr. Joun J. Kerry, TI, has re-

cently been appointed a member of the
medical staff at McGuire Veterans Hos-
pital, Richmond, Virginia.

Dr. Harortp T. MANKIN is taking a year’s
leave of absence from the Mayo Founda-
tion of the Mayo Clinic to be a Fellow of
the Minnesota Heart Association working

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

with Dr. Lewis Dexter in clinical cardi-
ology at the Peter Bent Bingham Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts.

4/ Joun H. CAsEy completed a law

degree at Washington and Lee after his
geology major and went to work for an
oil operator in Midland, Texas. He has
been in the Williston Basin for two years
as an independent consultant in landwork.
He writes that the combination of geology
with law is excellent and he can highly
recommend it for those interested. He is
at Glendive, Montana.

48 JOHN W. FUNKHOUSER completed a

Ph.D. in Biology at Stanford, then did an
additional year’s work in micropaleon-
tology. He is now with an oil company
working on fossil, pollen and spores.

H. Perriz MITcHeLL and his wife are serv-
ing as misisonaries under the Board of
World Missions of the Presbyterian
Church, U. S. (Southern), in Korea. They
have two sons, John and Thomas, the
latter born in Chunju, Korea, on Septem-
ber 28, 1953. Address: Presbyterian Mis-
sion, APO care of Postmaster, San Fran-
cisco, California.

R. Trepss BossERMAN is a member of the
recently formed partnership of Willet &
Bosserman, Certified Public Accountants,
Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Dave B. CoOFER, JR., is still a staff member
of ‘Texas A. & M. He has recently hung
out his shingle as attorney-at-law, and
assumed the duties of parenthood. His law
office is in the Sosolik Building, College
Station, Texas.

49 CHARLES RICHARD (DICK) WoRKING
has been named head football coach at
McDonogh School, McDonogh, Maryland.
Before coming to Washington and Lee
in 1941 Working was an _ outstanding
three-sports athlete at Baltimore City
College where he won nine letters—three
each in football, basketball and baseball.
He continued his outstanding career in
the same three sports at Washington and
Lee. Dick is 32 years old, married to
former Genevieve Johnson and the father
of two girls, Cheryl and Cindy, and one
boy, Michael Richard.

CLARENCE V. Moore has been transferred
from San Antonio, where he has been
with the Southwestern Division of Stand-
ard Oil of Texas, to the Houston office
where he is assistant to the Gulf Coast
Regional Geologist. At the recent A.A.P.G.
meeting several very nice compliments
were made about his abilities as a field
geologist.

EDWARD R. FEINMAN has opened offices for
the general practice of law at 718 Peoples
National Bank Building, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia.

SEPTEMBER 1954

 

In Newport News, an unveiling

= A PORTRAIT of the Reverend Wil-
liam Graham, first president of
Washington Academy which was
the predecessor of Washington and
Lee University, was unveiled June
22, 1954, by the Peninsular Chap-
ter of the Alumni Association with
some 25 to 30 local alumni and
friends present. ‘The portrait will
be presented to Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, President of the University,
next fall, as a gift of the chapter.
Philip W. Murray, ’10, (second

from right) lifts the covering during
ceremonies at the Newport News
Courthouse. Others participating
in the program were Mrs. Samuel
Cletus Johnson, the artist; Thomas
P. Duncan, °24, retiring chapter
president; and Lewis A. McMurran,
Jv., °36, who spoke on the Rev. Mr.
Graham’s presidency at the school
and his friendship with “Light
Horse Harry”’ Lee which is credited
with bringing George Washington’s
grant to the school.

SCOSHSHOHSHOSOOCHHHHOCHHGHOCHHHODHOSOHOHOSCHHHOHSOHOSHOCOOOHOHOCOOCOOCEO®S

EDWIN M. GAINES, son of Dr. and Mrs.
Francis P. Gaines, received his M.A. de-
gree at the commencement exercises at
the University of Virginia on June 14,

1954.

JoHN W. NOLEN, JrR., is still associated with

Thomas W. Clohosey, U. S. Commissioner,

in Newark, but has established his own
office at 180 Main Street, in Chatham,
New Jersey. He has a son, Jeffrey Merrill
Nolen, born April 19, 1954. Address: 180
Main Street, Chatham, New Jersey.

Jack B. PoORTERFIELD is with the law firm
of Lange, Simpson & Somerville, 1023-38
Frank Nelson Building, Birmingham 3,
Alabama. Jack writes of the recently or-
ganized Alumni Chapter in Birmingham.

> 0 Davip S. CROYDER was granted the
degree of Master in Business Administra-
tion from Harvard University on June 17,
1954. Address: 44 Kent Place Boulevard,
Summit, New Jersey.

ArTHUR M. (Art) Roperts has been a
Special Agent with the Aetna Insurance
Group, covering most of Connecticut, since
graduation. The Roberts are living in
Brookfield Center, Connecticut, a small
New England village, where they have
bought an old Box Colonial house, built
in 1789, and are enjoying fixing it up.
They also have another recent acquisition,
a fine little daughter, named Kathy.

Hatcotr Heyward, III, is with Virginia
Fire and Marine Insurance Co., in Rich-
mond, Virginia. Address: 4412 Grove
Avenue, Apartment 11, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

WILLIAM R. HOLLAND was recently elect-
ed auditor of the Mountain Trust Bank
of Roanoke, Virginia.

OLIVER MENDELL is working at the Bankers
‘Trust Co., as new business solicitor for
mid-town New York. He works out of
the Empire State Office at 34th Street. He
has been with the bank for almost six
years, and was recently elected Fund-Rais-

2]

 

Delay in the shipment of steel brought work on the new academic building to a tempo-
rary halt in July. Work has now been resumed, and plans call for occupancy by January.

ing Chairman for Junior Division, New
York Federation Hospital Drive. Address:
10 Glenwood Drive, Great Neck, New
York.

Birt Pacy is in the: movie business with
McHenry Theater Co., Inc., The C. W.
Pacy Co., Inc., 1032 Light Street, Balti-
more 30, Maryland.

Jack NickELs is working with his family
in the sales department of. Nickels Manu-
facturing Co., dress manufacturers. Bris-
tol, ‘Tennessee.

Curtis C. Humpureis, JRr., is making a
most enviable record with the California
Company. He is now located at Jackson,
Mississippi.

RICHARD W. HyYNson, now in Riverside,
Connecticut, is raising a son and is now
assistant manager of the Eastern Branch
of David White Sales Co., with particular
interest in the Stereo Realist Camera. He
finished his tour of duty in Korea about a
year ago.

Gerry U. STEPHENS, manager of the North-
side Branch of the American National
Bank and Trust Company in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, served as Organizational Con-
trol Officer of the Third Army Comp-
troller Section at Ft. McPherson, Georgia,
during the summer. Address: go4 Avon
Place, Chattanooga, ‘Tennessee.

35 / EUGENE E. FREEMAN, JR., received
the degree of Master of Science in Fores-
try from the University of Syracuse on
June 7, 1954. Address: Box 233, Win-
chester, Kentucky.

HowarbD BRATCHES, with the Land Depart-
ment of Shell Oil, has recently been trans-
ferred to the Colorado area with Denver
as the main operating point. The Bratches
have a new addition to their family, their

22

second daughter, Janice Colin. Address:
3296 South Grape, Denver, Colorado.

Joun A. F. HALL, JR., was granted the de-
gree of LL.B. from Harvard University on
June 17, 1954. Address: 2530 North 2nd
Street, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

Ricuarp R. McDonaAtp has returned from
his assignment with the U.S.G.S. in Alaska,
and is now on the Colorado Plateau work
ing on Uranium problems for U.S.G:S.

WALLACE R. OREF was with Equitable Gas
before being assigned to Division En-
gineer Supply of the Army in San Fran-
Cisco.

ROBERT E. GLENN entered the Air Force as
a First Lieutenant in J.A.G. on August 17,
1953. He is now with the USAF Security
Service, Kelly Air Force Base, San Antonio,
Texas. Address: 507 Fifth Street, Radford,
Virginia. (Please forward).

Ep Bassett is in Journalism School at
Ann Arbor, Michigan. Address: 608 W.
Davis Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Tuomas A. Courtenay, ITI, shortly after
graduation was drafted and sent to Walter
Reed Army Medical Center where he did
research on nucleic acids. Now as a civilian
he is continuing the work at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. Home Address: 2423
Glenmary, Louisville 4, Kentucky.

Bos SALIsBuRY has completed the pre-
liminary examinations for his work on
his Ph.D. degree and is now working on
his thesis at the University of Illinois.
Home address: 125 West Seminary, Whea-
ton, Illinois.

Joun I. THompson, JRr., is now employed
as Assistant Treasurer of the John I.
Thompson and Co., Consulting Engineers
of Washington, D.C., and Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, as manager of the Bellefonte
offices. Address: 234 W. Curtin Street,
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.

Rick Marcus is stationed at the Naval
Communications Station, 90 Church
Street, New York. His wife, Leslie, and
daughter Susan, are with him. Rick is a
Lieutenant (j.g.) and hopes to be dis-
charged in June 1955.

Art HOLLIis is in the insurance business
with Hollis Insurance Agency, Inc., 910
Ryan Street, Lake Charles, Louisiana, after
his discharge from the army.

ALAN Cross, Lieutenant (j.g.), is stationed
at Norfolk, Virginia, and has just returned
from a European cruise.

NORFLEET TURNER writes from Memphis,
Tennessee, that he and his wife, Meg, have
recently bought a home at 2083 Washing-
ton Avenue.

52 James HucH Gorpon, Jr., has a

bad case of Uraniumitis and has joined
the large group of fellow sufferers seek-
ing a cure in Colorado and Utah. His last
letter was from Grand Junction. He will
start prospecting in the near future.

Joun L. Bow es was graduated from the
Engineering O.C.S. at Fort Belvoir in De-
cember, 1953, receiving a commisison as
Second Lieutenant; he is now at Fort
Lewis, Washington.

ALAN S. Horow!tz was awarded the degree
of master of science from Ohio State Uni-
versity on June 11, 1954. Home Address:
2440 Winchester Avenue, Ashland, Ken-
tucky.

FLETCHER ‘I’. MCCLINTOCK is in the geo-
logical department of Arkansas Fuel Oil
Corporation, Shreveport, Louisiana, work-
ing in East Texas Basin most of the time.

A. PARKER NEFF is selling real estate and
insurance and is in charge of rentals for
Stephen E. Cooke in Norfolk, Virginia.

James A. PARKER obtained a masters de-
eree from Penn State last Fall and went
with U. S. Steel as an industrial engineer.
Shortly thereafter he received his “greet-
ings,” got married and went to Fort Meade
for processing. He then was assigned to
Special Services, Quartermaster Training
Command at Fort Lee, Virginia, and later
went to the Petroleum Analysis School at
Caren Point, New Jersey. He plans to re-
turn to U. S. Steel.

Paut D. WEILL is a “Leatherneck”’ officer.
He has served in various parts of the U. S.
and Japan, where he is now stationed.
He plans to go to graduate school after
finishing his present duties.

53 12 RANDOLPH KEAN, II, is serving

time in our Uncle’s Navy as an Ensign,
an Engineer Officer on the U.S.S. Bot-
tineau. He will go to graduate school
upon completion of his Navy assignment.

DANIEL E, PopovicH was in Navy O.C:S.
at Newport, Rhode Island, for some

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

months, was graduated in November and
was assigned to U.S.S. Mullany.

RoBERT Howe THOMAS was commissioned
in the Navy in August, 1953, and reported
to U.S.S. Princeton (aircraft carrier) for
duty in San Diego, California. His duty
has consisted of about five months on
beard ship conducting flight operations
off the California coast and in the ship-
yard at Bremerton, Washington. The re-
maining months have been spent in the
U.S. Naval Hospital, San Diego, with a
broken leg, first from playing touch foot-
ball on the beach, and then a rebreak
from skiing in Stevens Pass, North Wash-
ington. Home address: 3815 Monticello
Drive, Ft. Worth, Texas.

JOSEPH SCHER has recently been assigned
to the Public Information Office of the
XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg,
North Carolina. Before assignment to the
PIO Section, Private Scher attended High
Speed Radio Operator’s School, The South
Eastern Signal School, at Camp Gordon,
Georgia. Home address: 1604 Caroline
Street, Fredericksburg, Virginia.

 

1941

‘THOMAS W. BROCKENBROUGH was married
to Mary Louise Kocher on August 6, 1954,
in West Orange, New Jersey.

1946

Epwin S. PICKETT was married to Dorothy
Misner on July 12, 1954, in Niagara Falls,
Ontario, Canada.

1949

WILLIAM ALLEN CHIPLEY was married to
to Harriet Sandeford Quillen on July 10,
1954, in Coral Gables, Florida.

1950

WILLIAM ROBERT HOLLAND was married to
Irma Douglas Graff on June 5, 1954, in
Roanoke, Virginia.

JAmeEs PAUL SUNDERLAND and Esther Phyl-
lis White were married August 15, 1954, in
Richmond, Indiana.

SAMUEL D. EGGLESTON, JR., was married to
Marjorie Watson, of Lowlands, North Car-
olina, on April 3, 1954. Residence address:
1217 Burlington Road, N.E., Atlanta,
Georgia.

1951

FRANK STERRETT DAVIDSON was married to
Arden Locher on August 21, 1954, in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

SEPTEMBER 1 954

mw AFTER MANY YEARS the full story
of the first important Virginia nov-
elist—the man who first put the
tradition of the F.F.V’s_ and
Knights of the Golden Horseshoe
in print—has been told. It is the
story of a University alumnus, and
was written by Curtis Carroll Da-
vis. Chronicler of the Cavaliers: A
Life of the Virginia Novelist, Dr.
William A. Caruthers (Richmond,
Dietz Press, 1953), will make a
strong appeal to Washington and
Lee alumni, not only because of the
general interest which Caruther’s
life has for the modern reader, but
for the special material on Lexing-
ton and Washington College.

Born in Lexington the very year
Liberty Hall burned down, Car-
uthers was a student at Washington
College from 1817 to 1820. During
the summer of 1818 he witnessed
the climbing of the Natural Bridge
by a college mate, James Hays Pip-
er, and wrote a brilliant account of
it, published later in the Knicker-
bocker Magazine. After graduating
from the Medical School of the
University of Pennsylvania in 1828,
he returned to practice in Lexing-
ton. Like all members of the com-
munity, he mourned the passing of
old John Robinson, benefactor of
Washington College who rests to-
day under his monument in front
of Tucker Hall. Caruthers even
bought at auction thirteen gallons
of Robinson’s “finest, fruitless, most
ropey’ whiskey—for 40 cents a gal-
lon! How times change.

Davis tells Caruther’s story with
care and skill; and one reviewer
has suggested that for his work he
Should be awarded “a modern
Golden Horse-Shoe made for those
who ride their researches into new
territories of Southern history.”

‘THOMAS OWEN BAGLEY was married to
Peggy Lee Moyers on June 4, 1954.

1952

Otis WILSON Howe was married to Ruth
Christine White on June 19, 1954, in
Helena, Arkansas.

1953

HERBERT S. FALK, JR., was married to Joan
Jacobi on June 11, 1954, in Wilmington,
North Carolina.

1954

DANIEL DAvip DICKENSON, JR., was mar-
ried to Margaret Lois Boyer on June 11,
1954, in Richmond, Virginia. —

JosEPH LAMAR LANIER, JR., was married
to Ann Morgan on August 1, 1954, in
West Point, Georgia.

 

1938

Mr. and Mrs. McMrEEN HEPBURN MANY
are the parents of a daughter, Cecile Le-
guir, born April 15, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. GILBERT S. MEEM are the
parents of a son, Langhorne H. Meem,
Ii, born July 9, 1954.

Dr. and Mrs. A. COMPTON BRODERS are
the parents of a fourth son, William Mar-
shall Broders, born July 15. 1954.

1939

Mr. and Mrs. RoBertT A. BROWER are the
parents of a daughter, Barbara Alice,
born April 16, 1954.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. A. Lea Booru are the par-
ents of a daughter, Mary Lyon, born June

23» 1954-
1941

Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, Jr.,
are the parents of a son, John Curtis,

born July 19, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. BENTON M. WAKEFIELD, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Benton McMillin
Wakefield, III, born June 2, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. Rospert C. PEERY are the
parents of a daughter, Jennice, born De-
cember 27, 1953.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD LEVIN are the par-
ents of a daughter, Amy Wareck, born
July 7, 1954. The Levins have a new ad-
dress at 7407 Cortland Place, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia.

Mr. and Mrs. Grapy H. Forcy are the
parents of a third son, Jeffery Steele, born

June 25, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. LEMKUHL, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Charles A., III,
born June 2, 1954.

23

1944

Mr. and Mrs. NEIL ‘T’ASHER are the parents
of a daughter, Sheila Marian, born Jan-

uary 13, 1954.
Mr. and Mrs. THomas L. STILWELL are

the parents of a son, Thomas Clifford,
born May 24, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. LEON Harris, JR., are the
parents of a son, Leon, III, born August

12, 1954.
1945

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. SORRELLS are the
parents ot a daughter, Nancy Gordon,
born June 3, 1954.

1948

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES R. MCDOWELL, JR.,

are the parents of a daughter, Jennie,
born August 5, 1954. The McDowells have
a new address at 510 Sinton Road, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. SILVERSTEIN are
the parents of a daughter, Laurie Ellen,
born June 18, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. HARRELSON are
the parents of a son, Thomas McRae, born
February 17, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. Di Loreto are the
parents of a daughter, Michele Marie,
born July 8, 1954.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Bower, JRr., are the
parents of a daughter, Marguerite, born

May 17, 1954.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN WEAVER Faris are
the parents of a son, John Randolph, born
June 28, 1954, in Cheyenne, Wyoming.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT W. KNUDSEN are
the parents of a daughter, Diane Barrett,
born January 20, 1954.

 

1888

CAPTAIN GREENLEE D. LETCHER, prominent
lawyer and civic leader of Lexington,
Virginia, died August 12. Captain Letcher
was born in Lexington on July 19, 1867,
thee years after the Federal Army under
General Hunter had burned the house of
his father, Governor John S. Letcher. He
entered V.M.I. in 1883 and was graduated
in 1886 as first Jackson Hope Medalist. Fol-
lowing his graduation from V.M.I., he

24

entered the Washington and Lee Law
School where he graduated in 1888.

In 1917 Captain Letcher organized the
Rockbridge Artillery, named for the fa-
mous Civil War unit, and was commission-
ed as Captain in the National Guard to
command the battery. At this time he was
50 years old and when he took the bat-
tery to France, it was said, he was the
oldest line officer in the expeditionary
forces.

The great energy that Capt. Letcher
possessed was felt in many fields of ac-
tivity. Among many of his interests were
good roads. He helped organize the Lee
Highway organization and spent years of
activity on the Blue Grass trail. He was
a member of many fraternal and civic or-
ganizations.

1890

Aucustus K. Bowes died January 26,
1954, at his home in East Orange, New
Jersey. He was 88 years old.

1891

MINETREE JONES FULTON died July 3, 1954.
His home was in Richmond, Virginia.

1898

THomaAs HENRY HARMAN died July 25,
1954. His home was in Pikesville, Ken-
tucky.

1908

FREDERICK FLOURNOY MILLsAps died May
26, 1954. He was Chairman of the Board
of Directors of The Ouichita National
Bank of Monroe, Monroe, Louisiana.

1910

JupcE RiIcHARD B. SPINDLE, JR., of the Nor-
folk Corporation Court and senior judge
of the city’s courts of records, died June
19, 1954. Judge Spindle was recently ap-
pointed by the Virginia Judicial Confer-
ence as chairman of a committee of five
judges to work with the Virginia Advis-
ory Legislative Council on possible re-
vision of judicial circuits. His son, RICHARD
B., JR., received his A.B. degree here in
1942 and after service in the Navy, his
LL.B. degree in 1947.

1913

Dr. WILLIAM T. HANZSCHE died June 21,
1954, following a cerebral hemorrhage.
Minister of the Prospect Street Presby-
terian Church of Trenton, New Jersey,
for 32 years, Dr. Hanzsche was the author
of several books and for many years con-
ducted radio broadcasts for the National
Council of Churches.

1915

Mark Rosert Mites died June 21, 1954,
at his home, R.F.D. No. 2, Dover, New
Jersey. Affectionately known as “Buck”
at Washington and Lee, he was an out-
standing athlete in football, basketball and
track.

1917

S. STEINER SmiTH died in December, 19353,
following a heart attack. His home was
in Shelbyville, Kentucky.

1920

Joseru S. LeFirs died March 10, 1954. His
home was in Jacksonville, Florida.

1923

Major RANDOLPH DiILLon died July 16,
1954, in Washington, D.C., after a linger-
ing illness. At the time of his death he
was vice-president of the American Scales
Manufacturing Co., in Old Georgetown.
Major Dillon served during World War II
in the Aircraft Material Division. Burial
was in Arlington National Cemetery.

1924

ALBERT STACEY GIFFORD died August 10,
1954, following a heart attack. His home
was in Greensboro, North Carolina, and he
was president of the local Piedmont
Chapter of the Alumni Association.

1931

ADDISON TAULBEE WuiTtt died July 10,
1954. His home was in Winchester, Ken-
tucky.

DANIEL SHERBY died at Mount Sinai Hos-
pital in Cleveland, Ohio, on August 15.
Mr. Sherby was well-known in the city
of Cleveland and gave generously of his
time and talents to a wide variety of city
welfare activities. In recent years his
record of service extended to national
levels. He had been made a member of the
National Advisory Heart Council by Mrs.
Oveta Culp Hobby, Secretary of the De-
partment of Health, Education and Wel-
fare.

In addition to his charitable activities
he was linked prominently with trans-
portation and sporting enterprises in
Cleveland, being Secretary-Treasurer of
the Yellow and Zone Cab Companies. Mr.
Sherby was one of the organizers of the
Cleveland Browns football team of which
he was a director and treasurer. He was
largely responsible for the merger of the
All-American Conference with the Na-
tional Football League. During the first
year of the football merger he served as
president of the League’s American Con-
ference.

1936

RIcHARD S. Marcus, president of a large
Baltimore clothing manufacturing firm,
died suddenly on August 9, 1954, while
his yacht was coming into port at An-
napolis. His firm, the Louis Marcus Cor-
poration, Mount and Eagle Streets, Balti-
more, Maryland, was one of the country’s
largest munufacturers of women’s clothing.

1937

ALBERT LUSTBADER died May 31, 1954. His
home was in New York.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
OPERATING STATEMENT

For the Fiscial Year ended June 30, 1954

OPERATING INCOME (Undesignated):

 

CUASS AGERE VU ie ices ieee seeds eons ste doe yy endo vnescter conteouiurapyenevnss $56,043.33
DESIGNATED INCOME:

BTA ict 6 Sete Rs vasen en ng oh nas PS on seth tsb eg lena deate pete ches oa tipne cs Seaecneel $9,195.00

Bon yey kwisccel Aa Neu aa coer sets cng avugtegs ees esa sa eed vaaneDionpetestensaey ie fiaen tes 690.56

University departmental operating INCOME........... cc cette 205.00

Brancis’ 1. Giascow, Ll, Fund.......0 2.2. fee elaine tinsrecunentens 93.00

dripevrolicciate. atl letiesi.s....60.. vcs ecseeccageses sions dpeysie bevipelpetenspnpeecdibas espera 100.00

Bicctenmial Building Pussies. lok cred ep hoteles serine one tees 1,000.00

Journalism Building Fund........0..... ee ee re ere ete 10.00 11,293.56
Motel TineCOme. oi.) i a a A $67,336.89

OPERATING EXPENSES:

RU EAES. ccecect bus pe rescues ntoseeodv ios gpttt ie Ota epg ge tar eR ie lay Gis yc $11,123.14

Cillass ACME CX PCTSE.. 8s cei 5 Mee alae le tty ates pac ise gets s Laveee deste be ccviesecsceteaal 5,206.74

made Maa Zines, oo. oases se Ses een este eak aE caged 5 EL wens easy ob cn ug Las eeg oa ccgussdundie cs Soas 5,065.63

BVTVCEVTIS ices cs Saeco belies oe Hs RL yee ye el Ge deal touts tseetsscas co AveoP ote 245.67

BEAVIS rave ag ts ee a ee ee EL elaine eigen: 1,399.06

MP CV IAI ovine Serco Ls es SE de A sis ckh loots care censudelescasovecs! 1,093.60

ADMICE SUB PINGS... cece etek eye Ma tye Be ise elg Ge ess cane gt tghilecig stave essepuses 1,001.41

BOON) eee ig cs cee stlen soso ce Gea ee ee ees eR 2a! Scat yelet ry soekseeiensest visto 802.18

elepnone and telegra pla toc. 8 cs Gili ce ig ves cyst hand ious Go deene ss ehed bons de seeadegdil ecu cepebdvnaes 176.11

NVETSCETATICOUS oe... Ae es ee i os oid a ce 385.26
Total Operating Ex pensts 3 108 cig alii ees es eect nated eye borne cee tetup estes andes $26,498.80

OTHER EXPENDITURE:

Kquipment purchased (addressograph)..........0. cc. cece cececedscesseedscsasbonsenseeboegnas soesensenes 5,560.71
‘Total Operating Expenses and Equipment Purchased............ cece eceeeteeeteeees $32,059.51
Excess of ‘Total Income over ‘Total Operating Expenses and Equipment Pur-

CASE ek etic ey ae tee vet ee ee eae pp eee a eres ah eee 35,277.38
A ee alse ee caccr est es ee an ces ev ss odes Sele sb ages taiavtl gwen cient $67,336.89
STATEMENT OF TRANSFERS TO WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ‘TREASURER:

AMA S ETL POI ATICOTING 2.0, ..5 cov: evesecapiseege ie cdbcroo Fi bwche deesagesdessuvescvasbsdessnaneibecgureiviseasteeder dae $56,043.33

DSF Be ee PCO ooo a cso ies cee scscss cseec des nseasecbencoe tes saspuacsunnesvtedytonwy teas ovsnesenes stetoseqonedbergind uabedous 11,293.56
ee Pa lets) io heal ld ani a i ise en $67.336.89

CasH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1954—REVOLVING FuND (Advanced by University ‘Treasurer
LOT CUYTERE INGE CM CTIS CS) ss is oof oe eos Fads Gace cclavnon cede yop -vencevieccoevongubeesueidcdbeseetscdeeandeutecsayteenseeane $800.00

CASH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 3Q54—PLATE BUND.....00.00.0.cc.ccccccscsesnipeeteeobinecesaeersesaneoesanenseuneatoneedonesae $580.17

 

 

 

 

The

 

and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Mapile—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry.) A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Mapile—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry.) A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

