 

 

Class Agents for 1955

1887-1904—Alumni Office

1905 —John A. Moore, 2278 S.W. 16th Avenue, Miami 45,
Florida

1906 —Frank R. Crawford, M. D., Box 208, Farmville, Vir-
ginia.

1907 —C. C. Crockett, Stubbs Building, Dublin, Georgia

1908-A—Philip Page, Amherst, Virginia

1908-L—To be announced

1909-A—J. Preston Irwin, care of Arthur G. McKee & Co.,
2300 Chester Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

1909-L—The Reverend R. Allen Brown, 9613 9th St., E.O.V,,.
Norfolk 3, Virginia

1910-A—Elton Watkins, Failing Building, Portland, Oregon

1910-L—Hugh Hawthorne, Room 4800, Chanin Building, New
York 17, New York

1911-A—Edward E. Brown, 1115 Hamilton National Bank
Building, Chattanooga 2, Tennessee

1911-L—F. B. Richardson, 302 East Grace Street, Richmond
19, Virginia

1912-A—The Right Reverend Lloyd R. Craighill, St. James’
Church, Lothian, Maryland

1912-L—To be announced

1913-A—Paul D. Converse, 414 David Kinley Hall, Univer-
sity of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois

1913-L—Judge Thomas R. Bandy, 245 Broad Street Kings-
port, Tennessee

1914-A—Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy, “Kolosandra,”’ College
Park, Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—James N. Daniel, P.O. Box 67, Chipley, Florida

1915-A—Evan S. McCord, Versailles, Kentucky

1915-L—W. A. Keleher, First National Bank Building, Al-
buquerque, New Mexico

~1916-A—R. Preston Hawkins, Jr., M.D., Box 405, Clifton
Forge, Virginia

1916-L—Lycurgus Hyre, Box 392, Buckhannon, West Vir-
ginia

1917-A—Colonel Charles R. Stribling, Jr., Missouri Military
Academy, Mexico, Missouri

1917-L—Herbert G. Smith, Courthouse Building, Newport

News, Virginia
—To be announced
—Samuel A. Anderson, Jr., 1832 Monument Avenue,
Richmond, Virginia
1920-A—To be announced
1920-L—Joseph M. Glickstein, P.O. Box 1086, Jacksonville 1,

1918
1919

Florida

1921-A—Frank M. Pollock, 370 Withers Building, Norfolk 10,
Virginia

1°21-L—D. Boone Dawson, Box 1405, Charleston, West Vir-

ginia

1922-A—Matthew C. G. Henderson, 704 Fairfax Avenue, Nor-
folk, Virginia

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving Street, Arlington 1,

Virginia

1923-A—A. J. Lester, Jr., 1018 Mulberry Road, Martinsville,
Virginia

1923-L—John G. Ragsdale, 519 Lion Oil Building, El Dorado,
Arkansas

1924-A—Barrett C. Shelton, 451 Sherman Street, Decatur,
Alabama

1924-L—Ira M. Quillen, Lebanon, Virginia

1925-A—Charles S. Heilig, Box 1528, Salisbury, N. C.

1925-L—W. E. Moore, Box 566, Waynesboro, Virginia

1926-A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., 2423 East 58th Street,
Los Angeles 58, California

1926-L—Judge William Hill Brown, Jr., National Bank Build-
ing, Manassas, Virginia

1927-A—Luther H. Redcay, Isle of Que, Selinsgrove, Penna.

1927-L—G. Charlton Walters, 426 Langley Avenue, West
Hempstead, New York

1928-A—Howard Tayloe, Tayloe Paper Co., 420 South Front
Street, Memphis, Tennessee

1928-L—Bernard J. Wagner, 3334 Chase Avenue, Miami,
Beach, Florida

oe C. Proctor, Jr., 402 West Colorado, Victoria,

exas
1929-L—S. J. Thompson, Rustburg, Virginia
1930-A—V. J. Barnett, 120 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois

1930-L—William W. Palmer, 307 Beal Street, San Antonio
1, Texas

1931-A—-Houston M. Minniece, care of F. W. Williams State
Agency, Box 711, Meridan, Mississippi

1931-L—William Anderson Glasgow, 916 Union Trust Build-
ing, Washington 5, D. C.

1932-A—Thomas W. Hancock, Morocco, Indiana

1932-L—James S. Shields, 1104 Exchange Building, Memphis,
Tennessee

1933-A—Edwin W. Chittum, 51-57 Nusbaum Building, Nor-
folk 10, Virginia

1933-L—James Hoge Tyler, III, 200-A Citizens Bank Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia

1934-A—Harvey Pride, Pride Motor Co., 311 Second Avenue,
Decatur, Alabama

1934-L—Sidney H. Kelsey, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia

1935-A—Allen Harrelson, Jr., R. D. No. 1, Middle Road, Glen-
shaw, Pennsylvania

1935-L—Edwin T. Coulbourn, Drawer 627, Suffolk, Virginia

1936-A—Richard T. Scully, 101 Lafayette Street, Hartford,
Connecticut

1936-L—Charles B. Cross, Jr., 711 Professional Building,
Portsmouth, Virginia

1937-A—Parke Rouse, Jr., Jamestown Road, Williamsburg,
Virginia

1937-L—-Edwin M. Marks, care of Goldsmith’s, Memphis,
‘Tennessee

1938-A—A. C. Broders, Jr., M.D., Scott and White Clinic,
Temple, Texas

1938-L—Daniel W. Wilkinson, Jr., 915 15th Street, Newport
News, Virginia

1939-A—-Thomas W. Bradley, Jr., 62 Lee Gardens, Bristol, Va.

1939-L—-Edgar L. Smith, Box 911, Lewisburg, West Virginia

1940-A—Lee M. Kenna, P. O. Box 1469, Charleston, West
Virginia

1940-L—Leslie D. Price, 819 Kanawha Valley Building, South
Charleston, West Virginia

1941-A—Charles H. Chapman, Jr., 718 S. Foster Street, Doth-
an, Alabama

1941-L—Louie A. Paterno, 404 Security Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia

1942-A—Sidney Isenberg, M.D., 119-11th Street, N.E., Atlanta,

Georgia
1942-L—Edmund Schaefer, Krise Building, Lynchburg, Va.

1943. —Calhoun Bond, 510 Tower Building, Baltimore, Md.

1944 —George T. Wood, 1475 Wessyngton Road, N.E., At-
lanta, Georgia

1945 —H. Wise Kelly, Jr., Box 446, Fairfax, Virginia

1946 —James A. Ottignon, 185 Davis Avenue, Hackensack,
New Jersey

1947. —William T. Romaine, 1122 Eleventh Avenue, Hunt-

ington, West Virginia

1948-A—Johnson McRee, Jr., Box 229, Manassas, Virginia

1948-L—David B. Cofer, Jr., Sosolik Building, College Sta-
tion, Texas

1949-A—Walter H. Williams, Jr., 22 Malvern Avenue, Rich-
mond 21, Virginia

1949-L—James L. Dow, Box 128, Carlsbad, New Mexico -

1950-A—George Whitehurst, 5429 Argall Crescent, Norfolk
8, Virginia

1950-L—Philip M. Lanier, 318 East Lexington, Avenue, Dan-_
ville, Virginia | ae

1951-A—Upton Beall, 3301 Lovers Lane, Dallas, Texas

1951-L—John S. Bailey, 312 Juliana Street, Parkersburg,
West Virginia |

1952-A—Howard Aston Davis, 29-C Hillside Terrace, Lex-
ton, Virginia

1952-L—Barkley J. Sturgill, First National Bank Building,

_ Prestonsburg, Kentucky

1953-A—William L. Osborne, 503 Jackson Avenue, Lexing-
ton, Virginia

1953-L—R. M. James Ruscick, 925 Marion Place, Ridgefield,
New Jersey

1954-A—Wiley R. Wright, Jr., 22-B Hillside Terrace, Lex-
ington, Virginia

1954-L—Lawrence C. Musgrove, Martin & Martin, Boxley
Building, Roanoke, Virginia

 

 

t
eo@ @
eee ®
ooocee® e
@oee® ®
@e0e? e
@oe® e
eee
eee ®
@oo® ‘
q@@2e
e
e
6
Appalachian—A. G. Lively, ’12, Lebanon, Virginia -
Augusta-Rockingham—Col. Paul J. B. Murphy, we
"14, Staunton, Virginia =
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 40 Pryor Street, N.W. e
Baltimore—C. William Pacy, ’50, 169 Stanmore Rd. :
Birmingham—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., ’49, Frank e
Nelson Building e
Charleston, W. Va.—W. T. Brotherton, ’47, Box =
2525
@
Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ’27, 1223 Volun- e
teer Building e
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’25, Winnetka Trust e
& Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois =
Charlotte—Jack Crist, Jr., ’45, Box 1045 e
Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter, ’41, 1020 Union Trust .
Building, Cincinnati, Ohio e
Cleveland—Kenneth A. Goode, ’25, Harper Road, e
R. D. No. 1, Solon, Ohio ba
Danville, Virginia—R. Paul Sanford, ’21, 422 Ma- e
sonic Building e
Florida West Coast—W. E. Tucker, ’'48, Stovall ®
Professional Building, Tampa :
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building, e
Miami, Florida e
Houston—Ben Ditto, ’48, Norton-Ditto Co. e
Jacksonville—David W. Foerster, '51, Atlantic Na- -
tional Bank Building e
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, ’°40, Kentucky e
Home Life Building e
Lynchburg—Elliott Schewel, ’45, 1201 Main Street .
Mid-South—S. L. Kopald, ’48, The Humko Co., ®
Memphis, Tennessee =
New York—William M. Farrar, Jr., ’ 19, 70 Pine e
Street, New York, New York e
New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ’21, American :
e
gS

Bank Building
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, '13,

Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, ’35, National Bank of
Commerce Building
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Repub-
lic Bank Building, Dallas
Northwest Louisiana—T. Haller Jackson, Jr., ’48,
Commercial Building, Shreveport
Peninsular—Thomas P. Duncan, ’24, 601 Riverside
Drive, Warwick, Virginia
Pe ee L. Leopold, ’39, 133 Pelham
oa
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., ’41, 401
Plaza Building
Richmond—Paul M. Shuford, ’48, Suite 501-2 Mu-
tual Building
Roanoke—J. D. Hobbie, III, ’37, 9 West Church
Avenue
W. Goode, Jr., ’48, 407-09

San Antonio—John
South Texas Building
"21, 4144 Lindell

St. Louis—John L. Patterson,
Boulevard
Tri-State—H. Preston Henshaw, ’39, Huntington,
West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland
Washington, D. C.—Arthur C. Smith, Jr., ’41, 1313
You Street, North West

DECEMBER, 1954

Vol. XXX
Nos 1

Published quarterly by

The Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press

of Washington and Lee University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Class Notes Editor
Mary BARCLAY

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC

President
WILLIAM L. WEBSTER, 1912

Vice-President
JOHN F. HENDON, 1924

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YOuNG, 1917

Treasurer
H. L. SHUEY, 1924

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

WILLIAM L. WEBSTER, 1912
Wyatt C. HEpRICK, 1910
Joun F. HENDON, 1924

H. L. SHUEY, 1924

MartTINn P. Burks, III, 1932
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928

Howarp W. DosBINS, 1942

Be OG RY TD mA ce

FaCu LEY

MOTORISTS MAKING their way
along Poplar Street in Memphis are
now greeted by a fifty-five foot fres-
coe which covers a prominent wall
in the newly erected Poplar Street
Branch of the Leader Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Association. Lighted
by night and visible night and day
through the glass front of the build-
ing, this frescoe is the largest mural
ever painted by Dr. Marion Junkin,
A.B. ’27, professor of art at the Uni-
versity. Based on a local theme, the
mural is described as depicting
“The New South, with brawny
muscles, strong, growing and ex-
panding every day.’ It is one of a
very few in the South and was plan-
ned as a part of the building by the
architect. Dr. Junkin completed his
work in the late summer. Other of
his frescoes are in the McCormick
Library on the campus, the Vir-
ginia State Police Headquarters,
and the Stonewall Jackson Hospital
in Lexington.

m@ THREE WASHINGTON AND LEE for-
eign language professors, Dr. L. L.

9
~

 

The Gaines Guard, precision drill team

Barrett, Dr. R. ¥:; Bradley, and Dr
W. W. Pusey, attended the annual
meeting of the South Atlantic Mod-
ern Language Association at Col-
umbia, South Carolina, in Novem-
ber. Dr. Pusey read a paper to the
German section on the translations
and criticism of William Faulkner’s
works in Germany to 1940, showing
that Faulkner was recognized in
Germany in the late nineteen
thirties with, but after, —Thomas
Wolfe as the most significant con-
temporary American novelist.

Dr. Barrett, who served as a pub-
lic affairs officer at the U.S. Em-
bassy in Quito from 1951 to 1953,
presented a paper before the Span-
ish section on “Ecuador as Seen by
a Cultural Attache.” He also was a
member of a four-man panel which,
at the opening general session, dis-
cussed “Creative Work of Profes-
sors.”

Of interest, too, is the fact that
Dr. Barrett recently signed a con-
tract with the Macmillan Company,
publishers, to translate the latest
novel of the prominent Brazilian
writer, Eric Verissimo. Unlike Time
and the Wind, a previous histori-

cal novel by Verissimo which Dr.
Barrett translated and published
in 1951, the new book is a psycho-
logical novel of suspense. ‘The title
in Portuguese means “Night,” but
the title of the English translation
has not yet been decided. ‘Transla-
tion has been started, however, and
publication is tentatively scheduled
for late 1955.

m ONE OF FOUR SPEAKERS who. ad-
dressed the sixteenth annual meet-
ing of the Guild of Scholars in New
York in December was Dr. Edward
D. Myers, professor of philosophy
at Washington and Lee. Myers con-
ducted the Guild’s fourth general
session, summarizing the remarks
of the three earlier speakers. ‘Those
speakers, all authorities on Orien-
tal religion and philosophy, were
Dr. F. T. Cheng, former judge of
the International Court of Justice,
who spoke on Confucianism; Swami
Pavitrananda, guest teacher for the
Vedanta Society in New York, who
dealt with Hinduism; and Dr. Ry-
usaku ‘Tsunoda of the East Asian
Institute, Columbia University,
who spoke on Buddhism. While in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

New York, Myers also addressed
faculty groups of Columbia Un1-
vesity and City College of New
York.

THE HEAD OF THE Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation, Prot. O.
W. Riegel, is included among twen-
ty-eight prominent editors, educa-
tors, and public opinion experts
who have formed “The National
Committee for an Adequate U. S.
Overseas Information Program.”
The Committee is headed by Ed-
ward L. Bernays, New York public
relations counsellor, and includes
in its membership Hodding Carter,
Pulitzer Prize-winning editor of the
Greenville (Mississippi) Delta Dem-
ocrat-Times; Elmer Davis, famed ra-
dio commentator; Robert L. John-
son, president of ‘Temple Universi-
ty; George Gallup of the American
Institute of Public Opinion; and
Ralph McGill, editor of the Atlanta
Constitution.

According to Bernays, the pur-
pose of the committee is to further
in the American mind the import-
ance of an extended and empha-
sized U.S. Overseas Program. ‘The
Committee will bring to the Ameri-
can public the reasons why an in-
formation program is important to
international understanding of
America and to counteracting Com-
munist propaganda.

m ONE OF THE SPEAKERS before the
meeting of the Southern Economic
Association held in Biloxi, Missis-
sippi, in November was Dr. Jack N.
Behrman, associate professor of
economics and political science.
Subject of his address was ‘Towards
a Foreign Lending Policy in the
National Interest.’’ Some of the ba-
sic arguments which Behrman pre-
sented were developed from written
testimony on the same general sub-
ject that he prepared for the Senate
Banking and Currency Committee
last fall.

m JOHN M. (RED) SISLEY, ’39, died Oc-
tober 19, 1954, in Jackson Memort-
al Hospital in Lexington after an
illness of several months. He was

DECEMBER 1954

 

born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
October 24, 1914, graduated from
high school in Toledo, Ohio, and
received a physical education de-
gree from the University of Illinois
in 1947. Active in civic affairs in
Lexington, he was assistant to the
athletic director, trainer, and direc-
tor of University services at Wash-
ton and Lee.

Joining the Army Air Force as a
private in 1942, he spent three years
at the Armed Forces School for
Special Services at Washington and
Lee, and later was chief of physical
reconditioning at McGuire Hospi-
tal in Richmond, Virginia, and at
Walter Reed Hospital in Washing-
ton, D.C. He was discharged from
the Air Force in September 1946
with the rank of major.

He became trainer and assistant
to the athletic director at Washing-
ton and Lee in September 1950,
and in 1953 director of University
services and manager of the Uni-
versity Supply Store. He had been
on medical leave of absence since

June 1954.

He was married in 1945 to Miss
Marjorie Fitzpatrick of Route 1,
Lexington, Virginia. He was active
in civic affairs both in Lexington
and the Kerrs Creek community,
where he built a handsome home
several years ago.

SISLEY

 

LAW SCHOOL

m THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Law
School Moot Court team, consisting
of William M. Bailey of Wilming-
ton, Ohio, Willard I. Walker of
Free Union, Virginia, and P. James
Kurapka of Baltimore, Maryland,
recently won the right to represent
the four-state area of North Caro-
lina, South Carolina, Virginia, and
West Virginia. in national Moot
Court competition to be held in
New York City the early part of
December. In addition, the brief
submitted by the team in sup-
port of its position on the hypo-
thetical case being argued was se-
lected unanimously as the best en-
tered in the area competition.
Washington and Lee’s triumph was
in competition with Duke, Wake
Forest, William and Mary, and the
Universities of Virginia, North Car-
olina, and South Carolina. All the
arguments required to determine
the regional winner for this year
were held at Duke University in
November.

In the opening round of the
“sudden death” tournament, Wash-
ington and Lee was victorious over
the representatives of Wake Forest.
The team then advanced to the
finals by defeating William and
Mary. Until the final round,
Messrs. Bailey, Walker, and Ku-
rapka had argued only the Petition-
er’s side of the “case” being con-
tested. However, because the other
finalist, the University of South
Carolina, was also originally as-
siened to uphold the Petitioner’s
viewpoint, Washington and Lee
was forced (by flip of a coin) to
switch sides for the final argument.
This mandatory change of position
appeared momentarily to be a great
handicap, but by virtue of a new ar-
gument (it had not hitherto been
used by any other contestant) urged
upon the “Court” by Washington
and Lee, the changed sides prob-
ably redounded much to its ad-
vantage.

The National Competition is
conducted each year by the Young
Lawyers Committee of the Asso-
ciation of the Bar of the City of

3

 

Before the courts of Alabaster, U.S. A., a flip of a coin brought a winning argument.
Moot courters: KURAPKA, POFF, BAILEY, and WALKER

New York as a means of enabling
law students throughout the coun-
try to match their court room and
brief-writing abilities against one
another. ‘This is the fifth year of the
competition, which has been won
previously by Georgetown Univer-
sity and the University of Nebras-
ka. ‘The law school of the former
was the winner of the arguments
for the first three years, and the
latter school was the national
champion for last year. Eighty-five
law schools from coast to coast have
entered the competition for 1955.

‘The case currently argued by the
various law schools was selected by
reason of the fact that recent de-
cisions of the Supreme Court of
the United States have focused at-
tention of Labor lawyers on the
right of a state court to deal with
peaceful picketing. ‘The decision
shed new light on the limitations
imposed on a state Court’s power
to enjoin labor union picketing by
right of free speech and the juris-
diction given to the National Labor
Relations Board in the Taft-Hart-
ley Act. The .current -refiusal of
the NLRB to act in cases involving
a small business has further comph-
cated the problem.

‘The Young Lawyers Committee
of the Association of the Bar of the
City of New York has posed issues
based on this problem for the Fifth
National Moot Court Competition.

4

The case being argued this year is
entitled Local 123, International
Brotherhood of Video and Audio
Workers Union and George X.
Rock v. Maestro Video Store, Inc.
This hypothetical case involves a
labor union that has been peace-
fully picketing a discount television
store for the purpose of persuading
the employees of the store to join
the union. ‘The employees have re-
fused to join the labor organization,
and the employer, whose business
has suffered appreciably, has ob-
tained an injunction against the
picketing in the courts of the imag-
inary state of Alabaster, United
States. ‘The Appellate Court of
Alabaster has upheld the injunc-
tion, and the Supreme Court of
the United States has for the pur-
pose of competition, granted the
petition of the union for a Writ of
Certiorari. ‘Iwo basic issues have
been posed by the “litigation”: (1)
whether the state courts have juris-
diction to enjoin union conduct of
the type here involved; (2) whether
the state courts, assuming they have

 

The John Randolph Tuck-
er Lectures will be delivered
in Lee Chapel by Dean R. G.
Story of the Southern Metho-
dist University School of Law
on April 15-16.

 

 

 

 

jurisdiction over the controversy,
may constitutionally enjoin the
peaceful stranger picketing of a
labor organization.

Perhaps encouraged to some de-
gree by the existence of the Na-
tional Competition, the faculty of
the Washington and Lee Law
School has instituted a compulsory
first-year course in “Briefmaking
and Oral Argument.” All freshmen
are thereby given an opportunity
to display their courtroom apti-
tudes under the simulated condi-
tions of a case on appeal. This
Moot Court program not only pro-
vides the student with practical ex-
perience, but also it tends to rouse
his interest in the inter-school com-
petition, for which he is eligible
during his intermediate and senior
years in law. school. 1£-is to be
hoped that, by virtue of the reser-
vior of talent provided by the Moot
Court program, Washington and
Lee will be able to duplicate in
the future the success of its Moot
Court team for this year.

m TEN WASHINGTON AND LEE law stu-
dents of the U. S. Army Reserve,
who attended the Judge Advocate
Basic Course at Fort George G.
Meade, Maryland, in August, have
been commended by the Comman-
dant of the Army Judge Advocate
General’s School as a credit to the
Law School and to the Lexington
Judge Advocate Branch Depart-
ment. Among them was end Lt.
William M. Bailey of Wilmington,
Ohio, a third-year law student,
who took first stand in the course.

In his letter to Dean Clayton E.
Williams of the Law School, the
Commandant further stated that
“Colonel Charles P. Light, Jr., and
Major Charles V. Laughlin, the of-
ficers in charge of the Judge Advo-
cate Branch unit in the Law School,
deserve a great deal of credit for
the work they have done in pro-
ducing such a well-trained group
of young men.”

The Judge Advocate unit was es-
tablished on the campus in October
1953, as a branch of the Richmond
U. S. Army Reserve School. It was
the first law school unit to be es-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

tablished in the United States un-
der the Army Reserve School pro-
gram. The unit is open to physical-
ly qualified law students who hold
commissions or who enlist in the
Army Reserve. The program of in-
struction prepares the law gradu-
ate for military-legal duties dur-
ing his period of active military
service and enhances his chances
for appointment as a Reserve Of-
ficer in the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Corps. ‘The unit this year has
twenty-five members from among
all three classes in the Law School.

BOOKS

m A TEXTBOOK BEARING the imposing
title, “Qualitative Analysis Using
Semimicro Methods,’ written by
Dr. E. S. Gilreath, associate protes-
sor of chemistry at Washington and
Lee, was published in September
by the McGraw-Hill Book Com-
pany. Described as “extremely
teachable and well-balanced,”’’ this
288-page book covers both the theo-
ry and laboratory practice of the
subject.

The text presents an integrated
discussion of the concepts, theories,
and laws relating to solutions. ‘The
aim of the book is to bridge the
gap between general chemistry and
physical chemistry by including a
number of important topics that
cannot be either omitted or ade-
quately covered in these two over-
crowded fields. Special emphasis 1s
placed upon the properties of solu-
tions of electrolytes. Wherever pos-
sible, there is an attempt to corre-
late the theoretical discussions with
the laboratory procedures of quali-
tative analysis. Each chapter is fol-
lowed by problems, questions, or
exercises, with special emphasis up-
on carefully constructed and chal-
lenging problems. Many solved
problems are provided. The experi-
mental section offers systematic
schemes of analyses for the cations
and anions.

m NOT ONE, BUT TWO BOOKS author-
ed by Dr. Marshall Fishwick, as-
sociate professor of American stud-

DECEMBER 1954

ies, have been published recently.
They are General Lee’s Photogra-
pher: The Life and Work of Mich-
ael Miley, and American Heroes:
Myth and Reality.

The first is concerned with a
young ex-confederate soldier, Mich-
ael Miley, who arrived in Lexing-
ton to open a photographic studio
less than a year after Gen. Robert
E. Lee took up his duties as presi-
dent of war-torn Washington Col-
lege. His consuming ambition was
to become General Lee’s photog-
rapher. He not only realized that
ambition, but also became one of
the foremost pioneers in color pho-
tography. The book is illustrated
with many photographs made by
Miley. Some are of Lexington per-
sons; four are in color. The latter,
produced by his own process, are
some of the first successful color
photographs in history. ‘The book
was published by the University of
North Carolina Press for the Vir-
ginia Historical Society.

The second book, American
Heroes: Myth and Reality, was
published by the Public Affairs
Press. American heroes and the men
who make and break them are dealt
with in lively fashion. In a compli-
mentary introduction, Carl Carmer,
author and folklore lecturer, says
“Mr. Fishwick is no de-bunker. He
believes, however, as does every hon-
est historian, that where ‘bunk’ ex-
ists it should be exposed for what
it is.” Local readers will be inter-
ested in his chapter on Robert E.
Lee, whom he describes as the hero
of the Lost Cause. In addition to
Lee, he evaluates the reputation
of such standard heroes as John
Smith, Daniel Boone, Billy the Kid,
Buffalo Bill, and Henry Ford. And
in his final section he examines
such American types as the self-
made man, the matinee idol, and
the American villain.

LIBRARY

m THE ENTIRE PERSONAL LIBRARY of
Herbert Fitzpatrick, A.B., ’92, LL.B.
93, prominent Huntington, West
Virginia, attorney and a member

and former Rector of the Univer-
sity Board of ‘Trustees, has been
presented to Washington and Lee.
Valued at $50,000 and including
some 2,800 bound volumes and an
undetermined number of pam-
phlets, Mr. Fitzpatrick’s library was
received at the McCormick Library
in late August. It took a full month
for librarian Henry E. Coleman to
complete the task of unpacking and
making preliminary classification.
Still facing the Library staff is the
task of cataloging the volumes
and placing them in the Library’s
extensive stacks. Many volumes on
law and related subjects will be
turned over to the Law Library.

In evaluating the collection Mr.
Coleman said, “It’s a gentlemen’s
library, the kind that just is not ac-
cumulated any longer. Persons to-
day do not take the time, and, of
course, many of these fine volumes
are no longer available.” He noted
in particular the diversity of sub-
jects covered by the books. Un-
usually rich in literature, history,
and biography, the collection in-
cludes complete sets of the stand-
ard authors—Thackery, Dickens,
Shakespeare, and others—and many
sets of reference works, including
the twelve-volume Oxford Diction-
ary. “An interesting feature,’’ Cole-
man continued, ‘‘is the collection of
books in fine arts, dealing chiefly
with the things in which Mr. Fitz-
patrick was interested—old silver,
antique furniture, oil paintings,
etchings, oriental rugs and pottery,
and prayer rugs.”

Mr. Fitzpatrick has served on the
University’s Board of ‘Trustees since
1931. From 1941 until 1953 he was
Rector of the Board. As senior
member of the Huntington law
firm of Fitzpatrick, Marshall, Hud-
dleston, and Bolen, he has served
as chief counsel for many large cor-
porations, including the Chesa-
peake and Ohio Railway.

SPEAKERS

m VARIOUS UNIVERSITY departments
and student organizations joined
during the first three months of the

5

 

A.N.P.A.’s HANSON

1954-55 school year to bring to
Washington and Lee’s campus a
variety and number of outstanding
speakers unequalled in recent years.
‘These lecturers and discussion lead-
ers have afforded students an un-
paralleled opportunity to receive
at first-hand the opinions of per-
sons extremely close to. world and
national problems, or to meet per-
sonally artists and authors current-
ly active in the cultural fields.
Biggest event this fall was the first

“Tnternational Relations Week,” an

affair that may well become an an-
nual event at Washington and Lee.
‘The Department “of Political
Science, under Professor R. N. Lat-
ture, joined with the student Chris-
tian Council and International Re-
lations Club to bring three experts
on foreign affairs to Lexington
during the period of November
8-12.

Speaking before a large audience,
Dr. Charles A. Micaud, associate
professor of foreign affairs at the
University of Virginia and a native
of France, reviewed his country’s
recent political developments and
predicted a new era of French pros-
perity under the dynamic leader-
ship of Premier Pierre Mendes-
France. Professor Micaud, who just
returned from a research project in
France, discounted anti-American
sentiment in France, charging it up
to a “wounded self-respect” which

6

France is suffering, rather than to
a deep-seated resentment toward
the United States.

Two nights later, Dr. Frank
Price, a Rockbridge County resi-
dent who spent most of his life in
China as a missionary, discussed
‘The Crisis and the Outlook for
China.” Dr. Price, a former advis-
sor to Chiang Kai-Shek and a mem-
ber of the China delegation to the
United Nations organizational
meeting in 1945, recommended that
Red: China be admitted into the
UN as soon as possible. ‘Taking the
most controversial stand of all au-
tumn speakers he said UN member-
ship for Red China would open up

 

India’s MEHTA

an avenue of communication be-
tween that country and America
that could lead to a better under-
standing and better relations.

Dr. Price, interned in Red China
for nearly three years, returned to
the United States slightly over a
year ago to become moderator for
the General Assembly of the Pres-
byterian Church.

Final speaker for International
Relations Week was His Excellency,
Gaganvihari L. Mehta, ambassador
to the United States from India.
He assured Washington and Lee
students and faculty members that
India’s leaders have no desire to
form an Asian bloc of nations with

which to shift the balance of world
power. But, he emphasized _ his
country does desire consideration of
its views when other nations begin
dealing with problems vital to its
future.

Ambassador Mehta warmly sup-
ported the United Nations as the
hope of a peaceful world. And he
warned that the threat of commu-
nism to India lies not in its innu-
merable laboring class, but in the
young intellectuals whose  tradi-
tional frustration often provides
“fruitful soil for the seeds of totali-
tarian doctrines.”’

m THE LEE MEMORIAL Journalism
Foundation, directed by Professor
O. W. Riegel, brought to the cam-
pus two experts on widely diversi-
fied fields of mass communications.
Assisted by the University’s Sigma
Delta Chi Chapter, Riegel this year
inaugurated a new “guest expert”’
type of program, in which the
speaker would not only deliver a
formal lecture, but also would be
available for consultation with stu-
dents and faculty members.

Harry J. Krould, chief of the
European and African Section of
the Library of Congress, and first
of the journalism speakers, dealt
primarily with a survey of current
European mass media and with the
changing world situation in which
American allies present a bigger

 

Finland’s NyYKkorp

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

propaganda task than do America’s
adversaries.

Elisha Hanson, general counsel
for the American Newspaper Pub-
lishers Association, spoke several
weeks later on “Canon 35—Radio,
Television, and Press Coverage of
the Courts.’’ An active participant
in some of the quarter-century’s
leading “‘free press” cases before the
Supreme Court, Mr. Hanson called
for a revision of the “outmoded”’
judicial canon which __ prohibits
cameras and tape recorders in many
of the nation’s courts. He also par-
ticipated in a roundtable discus-
sion with Riegel and John D. Carr,
counsel for the Roanoke ‘Times-
World Corporation, on recent
changes in law affecting mass com-
munications.

m THE DEPARTMENT of English
opened its eleventh seminar in
Literature this fall with Evelyn
Eaton, Swiss-born and British-edu-
cated American author, who spoke
on “Writing in the Atomic Age.”
Miss Eaton is currently visiting
lecturer in creative writing at Sweet
Briar College. She is the author of
several novels, many short stories,
and several volumes of verse.

December visitors to the campus
included His Excellency Don Jose
Maria de Areilza, newly accredited
ambassador to the United States
from Spain. A prominent Spanish
attorney and man of letters, Senor
Areilza spoke on “Foreign Rela-
tions between Spain and the Amer-
ican Colonies during the Revolu-
tion.”

Johan Albert Nykopp, minister
to the United States from Finland,
spoke at Washington and Lee in
mid-December, under the auspices
of the Department of Political Sci-
ence and the International Rela-
tions Club.

The Fine Arts Department under
Dr. Marion Junkin joined with
VMI to bring Walter Lewisohn,
producer of art films, to Lexington
for a two-day film festival. Mr.
Lewisohn’s films were well received
both at Washington and _ Lee’s
‘Troubadour ‘Theater and at VMI’s
new physics building.

DECEMBER 1954

Prior to the November elections,
John P. Ruddick, GOP candidate
for Congress from  Virginia’s
Seventh District, spoke to political
science students, and Charles W.
Lewis, Jr., who ran for Virginia
Senator as an independent Demo-
crat, visited the campus for a short
talk.

Almost without exception speak-
ers have been received warmly by
large audiences, and the increased
tempo of visits to the campus by
these outstanding persons has add-
ed considerably to the academic
and cultural atmosphere.

ROTC

x HOW IS THE ROTC DOING? ‘This
question is frequently addressed to
your Alumni Secretary. To bring
you—and himself—up to date, he
recently took a comprehensive read-
ing course on the subject. This 1s
what he found:

... Military training (1951 version)
at Washington and Lee, adminis-
tered by the Department of Muili-
tary Science and ‘Tactics, is a fully
integrated activity in the academic
sphere of the college, accepted and
respected by the administration,
the faculty, and the student body.

... Military Training has the high-
est registration of any completely
elective subject in the curriculum—
nearly one-half of the total stu-
dent body.

... Freshman ROTC enrollment
has exceeded seventy percent of the
freshman registration each year
since the establishment of the unit.
The military people report this to
be the highest freshman enrollment
percentage of any civilian college
where military training is not com-
pulsory.

... Freshman M'T students in June
rated 1.39 in grade point ratio,
against 1.02 for all freshman
courses. Upper Class MT men
rated 1.69, with 1.31 for all college
courses. ‘The Military Science stu-
dent roster carries more than its
share of Dean’s List, Honor Roll,
and ODK names.

...At the summer training camps
(six weeks between junior and sen-
ior years), which are the payoff,
where students stand on their own
feet in competition with cadets
from all other colleges maintain-
ing the same program, Washing-
ton and Lee men have “led the pa-
rade” year after year. In 1952 the
University placed the highest pro-
portion of men in the top ten-
percent of a 1238-man camp, with
fifty colleges participating. ‘The
1953 camp saw a University student
Number One Cadet among 1600
students from sixty-nine colleges;
the Number ‘Iwo Man in this ca-
det’s company was also a Wash-
ington and Lee student. In 1954,
University men rolled up their
sleeves and collected seven of the
top eight ratings in a company of
ninety-seven students from three
colleges, placed one man (of four)
on the camp commander’s cadet
advisory council, won four of the
thirty-six top places in camp-wide
competition with thirty-seven other
schools, and turned out the camp
yearbook with the editorial help
of a Washington and Lee journal-
ism student, one of two selected
cadets. (He received a commenda-
tion from the camp’s public rela-
tions officer.)

. The department nominated
two students for the Military Intelli-
gence summer camp in 1954, and
two others for MI-Reserve commis-
sions in June 1954, all of whom
were accepted and placed well in
these small highly selected groups
of specialists.

... [he Army staff of three officers
(the detachment is currently short
two commissioned instructors) and
six non-commissioned officer as-
sistants for administration, supply,
and instruction, are fully qualified
and easily hold their own in the
academic and staff circles of the col-
lege.

... Lhe annual formal Department
of the Army inspection boards con-
sistently rate the unit satisfactory,
with no single unsatisfactory entry
on their reports, all added remarks
favorable and complimentary.

...Army technical inspections—sup-
ply, ordnance, signal, etc—found all
requirements fully met, with Super-
ior ratings in every instance but one
(an Excellent).

... The extra-curricular activities
sponsored by the department are
vigorous, productive, and well man-
aged: the Scabbard and Blade com-
pany, the Sharpshooters Rifle
‘Team and Club, the Marching
Band (which forms the nucleus for
the university band), and _ the
Gaines Guard precision drill pla-
toon, which has performed at the
gubernatorial inauguration cere-
monies in Richmond and recently
took first place in drill team com-
petition at the American Legion
celebration at Harrisonburg. In all
of these, the cadets exercise full
managerial functions, with guid-
ance from the department’s ad-
V1SOrs.

...9even second lieutenants were
commissioned in the United States
Army Reserve in June 1953, eigh-
teen more in 1954. Most of these

are currently on active duty, turn-
ing in the creditable performances
expected of all Washington and
Lee men. Close to eighty appoint-
ments are expected at the 1955
commencement. ‘Three students
have applied for Regular Army
commissions upon graduation.

... Phe ‘Transportation Corps cur-
riculum, under which the unit op-
erated for the first three years, has
been replaced by the General Mili-
tary Science program which aims to
prepare a student for any of the
Army branches for which his scho-
lastic training, civilian experience,
and personal preference may best
qualify him, and in which the Army
may have appropriate vacancies.
Military history, weapons and
marksmanship, small unit tactics,
personnel administration, and sim-
ilar subjects make up the present
curriculum. :

... Advanced Course student en-
rollment is limited annually by a
quota. To date, this has accom-
modated better than half of the

0000000000 HHHHOHTHHHHHHHHHOHHHHOO8HOOHHO8HOO8HH8HO88H880898889

Standard Oil Company Gift

m BY LETTER from Eugene Holman,
Chairman of the Board of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jer-
sey, Dr. Gaines was advised in mid-
December that Washington and
Lee is one of 138 privately sup-
ported colleges throughout the
country to receive contributions
from Standard Oil for undergradu-
ate education.

“For some time,’ Mr. Holman
wrote, “Standard Oil...has given
consideration to ways in which it
might broaden the scope of its sup-
port to higher education. ‘The Com-
pany believes that as a corporate
citizen it should, with all citizens,
help the nation’s colleges and uni-
versities to maintain and improve
the high standards which will en-
able them to meet the growing
needs of our society.

“In order to give tangible ex-
pression to its conviction, Jersey

8 ;

Standard is now initiating a plan
under which it will offer contribu-
tions to selected privately support-
ed colleges and universities for
purposes of undergraduate educa-
tion.

“It is a pleasure to advise you
that Washington and Lee Univer-
sity is one of the institutions select-
ed and to transmit to you herewith
a check in the amount of $3,500.

“This gift is offered to Washing-
ton and Lee University without re-
strictions except that it shall go to
operating funds for purposes of
undergraduate education.”

In a pamphlet that accompanied
the letter, Standard Oil made clear
its intention “to continue its ef-
forts in behalf of education, modi-
fying and improving its practices
aS experience may indicate, but
firmly convinced of the soundness
and importance of the principles
which are at stake.”

 

applicants, and provided oppor-
tunity for the selection of the most
promising cadets for commissioned
officer training.

...In summary, as usual, we can
do no better than to quote Presi-
dent Gaines in his latest Report to
the Alumni: “The record of the
University’s Department of Mili-
tary Science and ‘Tactics continues
to be noteworthy.”

UNDERGRADUATES

m A TEN-YEAR-OLD BOY in a Presby-
terian orphanage somewhere in Ko-
rea is looking to Washington and
Lee University’s Interfraternity
Council as his foster parent for
the year 1954-55. His name is Choi
Myung Kwang. Choi’s mother died
in 1948, and when the war broke
out in 1950, he and his father, a
Seoul baker, fled south with thou-
sands of other refugees. While in
flight from the invading Commu-
nists, Choi’s father died in a refugee
camp.

Choi is the sixth war orphan to
be aided by the Council. He will
receive a total of $180 throughout
the year from Washington and Lee
students for clothes, food, medical
care, and education. In addition to
this group contribution, individual
students will send gifts and finan-
cial aid to him from time to time.
These contributions to the child
relief program are made through
the Foster Parents Plan for War
Children, Inc., in New York City.

ATHLETICS

HERE WAS A “NEW LOOK” about
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s fall sports this year in more
ways than the obvious absence of
intercollegiate varsity football. For
one thing, a new emphasis on stu-
dent participation in intercollegi-
ate athletics resulted in large turn-
outs for varsity soccer and cross
country, as well as for the inter-
im junior varsity football team.
What’s more, for the first time in
years all fall sports came up with
“winning” teams.
‘The soccer eleven won five, lost

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

In a winning season...

three, and tied two; cross country
runners, paced by a pair of stellar
freshmen, defeated seven teams, lost
to five, and tied one; and the jayvee
footballers, playing a very limited
schedule, won twice, lost one, and
tied one.

Besides winning more than they
lost, the Generals displayed in all
sports flashes of brilliance which
gave soccer Coach Charley Herbert,
cross country Coach Dick Miller,
and temporary football Coach Boyd
Williams reason to expect better
things to come. Some of the bright-
est lights in each sport were fresh-
men and sophomore performers
who either beat out veteran upper-
classmen or filled gaps which have
gone unplugged since departures
of outstanding Generals of yester-
year.

For instance, there was Herbert’s
soccer squad, made up mostly of
freshmen and sophomores, that in-
herited the easiest record to im-
prove upon. Last year’s team scored
only five goals all season, and failed
to win a match. In their first game
this year, the 1954 booters outpoint-
ed their predecessors with a 7-0
rout of Lynchburg College. And,
they reached their peak in the final
match of the season as they battled

DECEMBER 1954

Maryland, which had already won
the Atlantic Coast Conference
championship, to a 0-0 tie. Even two
overtime periods, played in gather-
ing darkness, failed to produce a
score.

Perhaps the highlight of the sea-
son was a pair of victories over the
Virginia Wahoos by impressive 3-1
and 4-1 scores. Other victories were
scored against Georgetown, 5-1, and
North Carolina, 4-0, while North
Carolina State and Washington and
Lee battled to a 2-2 standoff in rain
and mud. Only Roanoke College,
always a soccer stronghold, had the
Generals’ number, besting them 3-2
in their first meeting and by an
identical count in the second en-
counter. Duke was the only other
team to defeat Herbert’s charges,
by a 2-0 score.

An interesting sidelight: Virginia
won over Roanoke, 2-0, and Duke,
4-0, before being downed by the
Generals.

‘The Generals scored 29 goals
against 13 for their opponents. Bill
Boyle of St. George’s, Bermuda, and
Belden Butterfield of Montevideo,
Uruguay, led Washington and Lee
scoring with ten and six goals, re-
spectively. The defensive play of
Captain Jim Lewis of Irvington-on-
Hudson, New York, Morgan Schat-
er of New Canaan, Connecticut,
and goalie Bill Russell of Wayne,
Pennsylvania, was outstanding all
season.

Coach Herbert, who handled a
soccer team for the first time this
year, 18 expecting a better season

iN 1955.

IN CROSS COUNTBY, Coach Miller’s
biggest joy was a lean freshman
speedster named Mike Barry of La
Grange, Illinois. Barry consistent-
ly covered the long and rugged
Washington and Lee course in
times which compared with the best
the University’s recent ace, Walt
Diggs, 54, had recorded in his sen-
ior year. Against Roanoke Barry es-
tablished a new course record for a
General runner, touring the 4.25
miles in 21:02.5. He finished first
in five meets and was second in the
state Big Six run-off.

Another freshman standout was
Burke Armstrong of Rochester,
New York, regularly the second
General to finish, and often the one
following Barry to the tape.

Schedule-wise, the Generals lost
to Bridgewater, beat Hampden-Syd-
ney, won over VPI and Lynchburg
in a triangular meet, lost to David-
son and VMI in another triangular
race, and dropped a one-point meet
to Roanoke. ‘They tied William and
Mary and beat Richmond in a tri-
angular meet, and took second in
the state Big Six cross country race.
Virginia was beaten in a dual meet,
and the season was climaxed with
the Generals finishing second be-
hind VMI in the Southern Confer-
ence meet, beating the favorite,
West Virginia, and Davidson, Rich-
mond, William and Mary, and VPI.

Barry and Armstrong, both of
whom Coach Miller expects to im-
prove, together with several other
good freshmen and sophomores,
give promise of a bright cross coun-
try future for Washington and Lee.

m ON WILSON FIELD, some 45 boys
helped keep football a part of the
Washington and Lee scene by par-
ticipating in an abbreviated, four-
game season against small college
jayvee and prep school competition.
All football activity took place dur-
ing a two-month period, with the
team practicing only an hour and
twenty minutes a day.

 

STEWART, 755
...two from the Wahoos

Essentially, the jayvee schedule
and practices were designed to al-
low boys who wanted to play foot-
ball to keep up with the game and
not permit themselves to grow stale
through a year of inactivity. All
students were invited to take part,
including those boys on football
scholarships. No one was asked to
play, but Coach Boyd Williams,
who took over on a temporary ba-
sis during the absence of Head
Coach Carl Wise (on leave to Coach
in Canada’s professional ranks),
made it plain that everyone was
welcome to take part in a “play for
fun” program.

Emphasizing that as a prerequi-
site for a successful return to varsity
competition next year it was nec-
essary to participate this year,
Coach Williams had a gratifying
response to his invitation. Most
participants were freshmen and
sophomores, but there was a strong
nucleus of juniors, nearly all on
football scholarships, who provided
Coach Williams with experience.

The team took a good bit of rib-
bing from classmates and friends in
other schools when it dropped the
first game to Hargrave Military
Academy, 7-0. Few realized that the
squad had practiced only ten days
before taking on the Cadets, who
went on to one of the best seasons
in Hargrave’s history.

But with more practice, Wil-
liams’ Generals began to shape up,

and when Emory and Henry’s jay-
vees came to Lexington two weeks
later, it was a different team that
battled the Baby Wasps to a 6-6
tie, and nearly won. ‘The next week,
Washington and Lee rolled to a
13-0 win over Hampden-Sydney’s
reserves, and the last game of the
season saw the vastly improved
Generals trounce Bridgewater’s jay-
vees by 24-6.

Carrying the load for Washing-
ton and Lee were boys lke halfback
Don Stine of Cumberland, Mary-
land, tackle John Pipkin of Ports-
mouth, Virginia, center Jim May-
oyza of Cockrum, Mississippi, ends
Phil Brown of Euclid Ohio, and
Bill Kauffman of Lima, Pennsyl-
vania, all of whom would have
played football for the Generals
this year under any circumstances.
And there were the non-scholarship
players like fullback Alex Platt of
Riverside, Connecticut, quarter-
backs Bob Callaway of Westfield,
New Jersey, and Al Gitter of Wins-
ton-Salem, North Carolina, halt-
backs Pres Pate of Joplin, Missouri,
and Ed Laird of Waverly, Iowa, and
fullbacks Dewey Oxner of Green-
ville, South Carolina, and Rufe
Safford of Wyoming, Ohio. All of
them will be back next year for
the Generals’ seven-game slate, and
all can be depended upon for plen-
ty of good, hard football.

Coach Williams’ line was his
weak spot this year because of in-

juries to several key players and be-
cause of lack of depth. Even so, Wil-
liams points with pride to the play
of guards ‘Tom Salisbury of Mystic,
Connecticut, Fred Henia of Louis-
ville, Kentucky, and Jim Pullen of
Lexington, Virginia, tackle Bill
Kediel of ‘Towson, Maryland, and
end Jim Perryman of Dallas, ‘Texas.

As for 1955's football prospects,
the players and athletic staff are
optimistic. The boys learned much
under the capable coaching of Boyd
Williams, and they believe they
can give a good account of them-
selves against next season’s foes. Ev-
eryone who played this year will
be back, and some dozen or so boys,
all potentially good gridiron per-
formers who for some season or an-
other waited this season out, have
promised to bolster their ranks.

The jayvee team this year drew
little publicity for its four contests,
nor was any effort made to place it
in the public eye. But the student
body, faculty, and administration
have cause to be proud of the spirit
shown by the participants, and of
the fine work of Coach Boyd Wil-

ms assistants—Connie
Flanders, Jay Heckmann, Fred Ben-
ham, Walt Degree, and Harold
Sturgill—all of them veteran foot-
ball Generals who devoted their
time and energy to keeping football
alive at Washington and Lee dur-
ing a year important to the Uni-
versity’s football future.

and his

 

Harriers: Woop, Capt., ARNOLD, BARRY, DUFFY, BOWES, CURTIS, CRUTCHFIELD, ARMSTRONG

10

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Many allegations have been made. Are they

Fiction or Fact?

A statement from Dr. Gaines, President of the University

AKING COGNIZANCE OF certain rumors concerning
ae the University which have been widely circulated
in recent weeks, the Board of Trustees requested me to
comment on those allegations.

I shall not try to search out the origins of these
statements, but my correspondence reveals that they
may have their source in either of two situations. First,
it is a fact that in selecting each freshman class we
now decline nearly as many boys as we accept. ‘This
situation has brought to me expressions of disappoint-
ment and sometimes bitter criticism. Second, there 1s a
feeling on the part of some sincere admirers of this
institution that subsidized football was not successful
on this campus because the University “is too tough
for any normal, red-blooded American boy.”

As briefly as possible I shall state the allegation
and offer my comment.

 

1. Allegation: There is no alumnus on the Board of
trustees.

Fact: Of 17 Trustees (14 active, 3 emeritus), all
but one are alumni and that one is an honorary
alumnus and the father of an alumnus. A majority of
the University trustees were suggested for membership
by the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees.

2. Allegation: ‘The majority of the 1,000 boys ex-
pected to enroll at the University this fall would not
report because of the football situation. (This state-
ment appeared in print in late summer).

Fact: Except for a few boys who had been prom-
ised certain grants-in-aid, and then apparently de-
sired to go elsewhere in order to play football, the
football situation had no effect whatever on enroll-
ment, so far as we know. Our enrollment this year
18 1,016; the comparable figure a year ago was 1,007.

3. Allegation: Because of the severity of academic
work, not more than half of the current seniors would
return this fall even to try for graduation.

Fact: ‘The Class of 1955 is quite normal in size.
At this writing 151 men have made application for
their bachelor’s degree in June. Another 17 have ap-
plied for their degrees in February. Comparable figures

DECEMBER 1954

for the Law School are 27 and 6, making a total of 201
degree applicants.

4. Allegation: We admit new students, or seek to
admit them, on the basis of intellectual ability alone.
Fact: Every college in the world, I should think,
wants students of intellectual promise. Our selection,
however, is made on a number of considerations (these
were detailed in the September 1954 issue of the
Alumni Magazine), always with full allowance given
to character and personality. Incidentally, the two ap-
plicants most qualified intellectually, as far as records
can indicate, were not admitted to the current fresh-
man class.

5. Allegation: We have professors who boast of
“flunking’”’ 50 to 60 per cent of their students.

Fact: In a faculty as large as ours, the system of
grading will vary from teacher to teacher and from
course to course (more failures are expected in re-
quired courses than in elective); and with the same
teacher and the same course, the distribution of grades
will vary from year to year. I myself, for example,
taught an advanced course to a small number of stu-
dents one year when the highest mark made was C; I
taught the same course to about the same number of
boys the next year and every boy made an A. In one
isolated instance a year ago the figures quoted were
true; beyond that the statement is fantastic. I know
of no professor who “boasts” of flunking anyone.
Normally about 5 per cent of our students are aca-
demic failures. ‘That percentage is high and we are
trying to reduce it. It would be much lower if Allega-
tion No. 4 were a fact.

6. Allegation: A conspiracy is on foot to eliminate
all programs that have professional implication (law,
business, journalism, pre-medical work) and_ substi-
tute what might be called a curriculum of pictures,
poems, and sonatas.

Fact: Except for two alumni who, about 20 years
ago, urged that this University should be changed into
what was known as a “great books college,’ I have
never heard such a suggestion.

7. Allegation: We have entirely changed the curri-
culum of the University.

11

Fact: In my 25 years of service, some new courses
have been introduced but only three changes from
traditional offerings have been made. For one thing,
we divided the Departments of Religion and Phil-
osophy so that we might have a top-ranking man in
each of these fields; we created a Department of Fine
Arts, which certainly seems to have a place in an
institution which calls itself a College of Liberal Arts;
and we introduced three elective senior courses de-
signed to show the inter-relationship of the different
fields of knowledge.

8. Allegation: We have abolished all intercollegiate
sports.

Fact: Eleven intercollegiate sports, including
football (which this year has been played on a fresh-
man-jayvee level), are being played on this campus and
will be continued. We are doubling the allocation to
those sports that have been handicapped for lack of
adequate finances.

g. Allegation: We have abolished football or intend
to do so.

Fact: We have not abolished football. We have
abolished subsidization. And we suspended the inter-
collegiate varsity football schedule for this year. We
had a freshman-jayvee team this fall, and will play
seven varsity games next fall. Ours will be an amateur
team, however.

10. Allegation: We plan to abolish fraternities.
Fact: Fraternities perform a vital function on
this campus. We are constantly trying to make them
more useful to our boys and to the University. I have
heard no suggestion to abolish them.

11. Allegation: We plan as soon as possible to abol-
ish all scholarships, and have only students who can
pay full tuition, so that we might have larger salaries.

Fact: No such suggestion has ever been made to
me, and I think I can say it has never been conceived
in any mind. In fact, a faculty committee, studying
future needs of the University, listed as one of our
primary needs an additional $2,225,000 of endow-
ment for scholarships. What is more, we have broad-
ened the criteria on which we base the award of
scholarships to include, in addition to scholastic ability
and financial need, the quality in a boy perhaps best
described as “all-roundness.” Proficiency in athletics
is one characteristic of ‘“all-roundness.”

12. Allegation: We are spending a large amount of
money for a building on our campus to be devoted
solely to Fine Arts.

Fact: Nearing completion on our campus is the
first academic building to be constructed since 1924. It
will house the departments of Education, Fine Arts,
German, Greek, Latin, Philosophy, Psychology, Re-
ligion, and some History. In all, the building will con-

12

tain eight classrooms, eleven offices, a small audito-
rium, a large projection room, and facilities for Fine
Arts. Specifically, those facilities for Fine Arts include
two offices, a classroom, a studio, and an exhibit hall,
and were made possible largely through the gift of the
parents of a student. Their gift was designated for that
purpose.

13. Allegation: The character of the student body is
changing.

Fact: ‘Thoughtful observers have noted that
there are certain changes in the total American youth
of 1954 as compared, let us say, with the American
youth of 1934. The current generation, they reason,
has grown up against a different background; its prob-
lems are different. (Indeed, some of us who are fathers
and grandfathers give solemn pause to the fact that the
problems of today’s youth are undoubtedly heavier
than those experienced by their predecessors.) ‘To boys
of the present generation, early childhood is associated
with economic depression. War—its threat, conduct,
and aftermath—followed, and inevitably altered the
courses of their lives. Their years have been ones of
great social and technological changes, changes that
undeniably had their effect on the home, the school,
social customs, thought processes.

Yes, the character of the student body in 1954 1s
different from that of earlier years. But my colleagues
and I are convinced that the current student body
is as truly representative of the American youth we
know today as any student body has been true to its
own generation.

14. Allegation: ‘There is far less participation in
extra-curricular activities such as the ‘Troubadours,
debating, etc.

Fact: These campus organizations are as healthy
as they have ever been, and perhaps more healthy than
I have ever known them to be.

15. Allegation: Since College Boards have been
made one of the entrance requirements, failures under
the Automatic Rule have increased.

Fact: In 1950, the last year before requiring Col-
lege Boards, 69 men were dropped under the Auto-
matic Rule. ‘The average for the last four years, when
College Boards have been required, has been 45.

16. Allegation: There are fewer sons of alumni at
the University now than there used to be.
Fact: The average for three years (1938, 1939,
1940) immediately preceding the war was 24 sons of
alumni per entering class. The average for the last
five years has been 25 sons of alumni per class.

17. Allegation: ‘The Administration of the Univer-
sity has been taken out of my hands. (This statement
appeared in a Virginia newspaper.)

Fact: I think not.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

From a single change in policy, new potential for gaining in stature

The Athletic Decisions: Background and Meaning

A statement from the Rector of the Board, James R. Caskie, A.B.,’06, LL.B.,’o9

N JULY 7, 1954 THE Executive

Committee of the Board of
‘Trustees, meeting in special session,
voted that there would be no fur-
ther subsidization of athletes at
Washington and Lee beyond those
to whom we were already commit-
ted. ‘This action was confirmed at
a meeting of the entire Board on
July 23.

‘The Board is convinced that by
this single change in policy, the
University has acquired a new po-
tential for gaining in educational
stature. Moreover, the Board of
‘Trustees has every confidence that
the President, the Deans, and those
who teach on the campus in Lexing-
ton will develop this potential and,
in the best traditions of Washing-
ton and Lee, will guide the Uni-
versity from its present position of
strength to one of still greater
strength.

‘The immediate causes for these
two special meetings and details of
what transpired I shall discuss in
a moment. But first let me tell you
of conditions that made the Board’s
action inevitable.

1. In order to field teams that
could compete with so-called nat-
ural rivals, it had become neces-
sary in recent years to recruit for
football many young men _ who
could be admitted to the Universi-
ty only as “calculated academic
risks.” Many of them subsequently
were unable to meet the minimum
academic requirements for remain-
ing at the University and so left
via the Automatic Rule. We _ be-
lieve our action will minimize the
number of inadequately prepared
students admitted in the future.
Further, we believe that the Uni-
versity can better discharge the

DECEMBER 1954

most important responsibility it has
to prospective students and their
parents, namely, to render as honest
an appraisal as possible of each
boy’s potential for success at Wash-
ington and Lee, and to grant or
deny admission accordingly.

2. Infractions of the Honor Sys-
tem during the 1953-54 college year
involved an inordinately high per-
centage of the men holding ath-
letic scholarships. ‘The  relation-
ship between men admitted as “cal-
culated academic risks,’”’ the time-
consuming requirements of modern
football, and the academic require-
ments of the University on one
hand, and infractions of the Honor
System on the other became pain-
fully evident. We believe that our
action will make the future oc-
curence of widespread infractions
of Washington and Lee’s cherished
Honor System much less likely.

3. Football on the Washington
and Lee campus had come to be a
sport played only by those who
were subsidized to do so. It ap-
peared that the situation in basket-
ball was tending in the same direc-
tion. With the abolition of subsidi-
zation has come a new _ athletic
program which is far more sound.
‘That program returns all intercolle-
giate sports to the student body as
a whole, where they rightfully be-
long.

4. With only two or three games
out of a nine or ten-game schedule
being played on the campus at
Lexington, football had in a large
measure been taken away from the
students as spectators. The new
athletic program has as its aim to
schedule at least half of our con-
tests on the courts and playing fields
in Lexington.

5. Inequities existed in our stu-
dent aid program, with a far
greater measure of assistance being
given to a boy whose principal
claim to aid was his athletic ability
than to one who deserved such aid
for reason of academic ability, gen-
eral promise, and need. Under the
new athletic program all scholar-
ships will be administered accord-
ing to the same criteria. More will
be said on this point a little later.

6. From a business point of view,
it had become impossible to budget
accurately for the total needs of the
University because of the impossi-
bility of determining in advance
how much money should be ap-
propriated for the intercollegiate
athletic program. ‘This amount was
not known until the end of the year,
at which time the University was
obligated to cover whatever deficit
existed. Under the new athletic
program we shall be able to de-
termine quite accurately in advance
the funds that will be required.
And we are prepared to appropriate
funds to implement that program so
that it may have the fullest mean-
ing to the student body.

OW LET ME TURN more speéci-

fically to the meetings on
July 7 and July 29 of this year. ‘The
first was a meeting of the Executive
Committee of the Board of ‘Trustees
which became necessary when, two
days after the full Board met on
the campus in June, the Executive
Committee of the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics
(the full committee is made up of
representatives from the alumni,
the faculty, and the student body)
recommended to President Gaines

13

Football Schedule, 1955

October 8 Centre College Lexington
October 15 Davidson Davidson
October 22 Southwestern of Memphis Lexington
October 29 Washington University St. Louis
November 5 Hampden-Sydney Hampden-Sydney
November 12 University of the South Sewanee
November 19 West Virginia Tech Lexington

that Washington and Lee give up
football entirely for the 1954 sea-
son.

Our deliberations on that day
were divided into two parts. At the
morning session alumni and faculty
members of the Committee on In-
tercollegiate Athletics (there were
no students on campus in July), the
head football coach, the president
of the Alumni Association, the
president of the Generals Club,
and members of the University’s
administration met with us to con-
sider in free and open discussion
what should be done. The most
important result of that morning
meeting was the assurance given to
the Executive Committee of the
Board, by those responsible for
fielding a team, that it would be
possible to play the 1954 football
schedule. The team would be made
up of those players scheduled to
return to college in the fall plus
those who would enter with the
new freshman class under athletic
scholarship commitments already
made to them.

During the afternoon the Execu-
tive Committee of the Board met
in private session. The results of its
deliberations were two: (1) there
would be no further subsidization
of athletes beyond those to whom
we were already committed, and
(2) Washington and Lee would
play its entire 1954 football sched-
ule.

This was not the first time the
Board had considered abolishing
subsidization. It has been a topic
of discussion at almost every meet-
ing in recent years. Following a
discussion in 1953, it was decided to
try subsidization for one more year.

14

The action taken by the Executive
Committee on July 7, 1954, and
subsequently approved by the en-
tire Board on July 23, took into
account past discussions and those
conditions I have already men-
tioned.

You will note that at this meet-
ing the Executive Committee did
not vote to cancel the 1954 sched-
ule. It voted to play it. What hap-
pened, then, between July 7 and
July 23 to bring about its cancel-
lation? ‘The facts of the matter are
these: In contrast to the position
taken on the morning of July 7 by
those responsible for fielding a team
to meet the 1954 schedule, Univer-
sity officials were advised a few days
after the meeting that this could be
done only if the University made
available enough athletic scholar-
ships (in addition to those to which
we were already committed) to
bring the total of such awards to
fifty. In effect the Executive Com-
mittee was asked to rescind its de-
cision of July 7 and to grant per-
haps an additional seventeen schol-
arship awards to which the Univer-
sity would be committed for the
next four years, or for so long as
the recipients remained in school.
Also, with the exception of one as-
sistant, each of the football coaches
tendered his resignation. It was to
consider these developments that a
special meeting of the full Board
was called for July 23. At that time
the Board confirmed the earlier
action of the Executive Committee
abolishing subsidization, and took
the only action with regard to the
1954 football schedule that it could
under the circumstances. It voted
to cancel it.

It is understandable that many
alumni should be disappointed that
Washington and Lee was not to
be represented on the gridiron
in 1954, and that future football
schedules were not to include some
of the institutions with which we
have enjoyed football rivalries in
the past. It is equally understand-
able, I think, that these alumni, not
being thoroughly acquainted with
the facts of the situation, should
think the action somewhat precipi-
tate. We on the Board experienced
some of the same disappointment,
and we regret having been forced to
our decision to cancel the schedule.
Yet, in our considered judgment
the decisions made were the only
ones possible if the best interests of
Washington and Lee were to be
served.

Y AND LARGE we have been en-
B couraged by alumni response
to the Board’s actions. Perhaps a
thousand letters have been received
by me and other University officials.
Many of them echo the same regrets
I have mentioned. But by a count
of about four to one alumni have
expressed themselves as in accord
with our actions.

As is to be expected in connec-
tion with decisions of this sort, there
have been some severe alumni
critics of the Board’s decisions. In
most cases I question neither the
sincerity of their interest in Wash-
ington and Lee nor the genuineness
of their dissent. Criticism 1s healthy
and a part of normal growth. I
hope we shall always have it. Un-
fortunately, however, there have
been some instances where those
criticizing have apparently accepted
as true various reports and rumors
that are not true. Their allegations
have been widely distributed, and if
allowed to go unanswered could
bring real harm to the institution
for which we all have such high re-
gard. Therefore, Dr. Gaines has
been asked to take cognizance of
those allegations and to state the
facts with regard to each. He does
so on other pages of this magazine.
I hope that each alumnus will note
the allegations and study the facts,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and then will do all within his
power to correct any misunder-
standings that may exist.

To those who have been recipi-
ents of information making or elab-
orating on these allegations, it will
be obvious that certain of them
have been linked with personalities,
or are based on differences of per-
sonalities or differences of opinion.
I do not wish to deal herein. with
personalities; nor does Dr. Gaines.
We on the Board of ‘Trustees are
fully aware of the circumstances
that a few have seized upon as bases
for allegations. ‘Chose circumstances
certainly do not have the signifi-
cance that a few outspoken critics
have attached to them. It should
be evident to every alumnus that
no organization either exists or pro-
gresses free from differences 1n per-
sonality or opinion. Differences not-
withstanding, Washington and Lee,
dedicated to the important mission
of educating youth, will outlast all
of us who now criticize or support
its policies or personnel. And Wash-
ington and Lee will continue to
progress, as it has progressed in the
past, toward an ever more signifi-
cant place in American education.

S I HAVE SUGGESTED, criticism
does have value. As proof let

me cite some of the things we have
learned as a result of our actions.
First, it has been clearly demon-
strated to us that there is a real
need for more adequate channels
of communication between the Uni-
versity and its alumni. It is our re-
sponsibility to see that news of
Washington and Lee flows freely
and promptly to the alumni, and
that it has meaning to them. Defi-
nite steps already are being taken
to improve upon past performance.

Second, having made this 1m-
portant policy change with regard
to intercollegiate athletics, we have
been impressed with the need to
make clear what the future athletic
program will be. Moreover, we real-
ize that we must give positive as-
surance to alumni that intercolle-
giate football will be resumed on
this campus. ‘To these ends, I trust

DECEMBER 1954

that Dr. Gaines’ statements of fact,
this article, and the accompanying
announcement of the 1955 football
schedule will furnish the necessary
answers insofar as they are avail-
able at this time.

Third, probably the most valid
point made by critics of the Board’s
decision with regard to subsidiza-
tion is this: under the existing cri-
teria by which students are selected
to receive academic scholarships, it
is not possible to give financial as-
sistance to highly desirable young
men who give promise of being
able to complete our academic work
satisfactorily, but cannot meet the
strict academic requirements for
scholarship assistance. ‘I’o meet this
criticism the Board has authorized
the introduction of a third criterion
to govern scholarship awards, the
quality of “all-roundness.”” By giv-
ing consideration to this factor, as
well as to those of need and aca-

demic ability, we believe that we
can assure to future student bodies
certain young men of the same high
quality exemplified by some of
those granted athletic scholarships
in the past.

‘These steps the Board has al-
ready taken. Others will follow. It
is our most sincere wish that each
alumnus will be generous with
both his understanding and his as-
sistance aS we strive, in every way
consistent with the fine traditions
of Washington and Lee, to make
our University an institution of
which we shall have every reason
to be still more proud. It can be
done; and it will be done if each
of us will declare anew his faith
in Washington and Lee and his con-
fidence in those who, having dedi-
cated their lives to the education
of youth, are daily fulfilling their
commitments on the campus in
Lexington.

m DR. IRWIN T. SANDERS, B.A., ‘209,
professor and head of the depart-
ment of sociology at the University
of Kentucky, was awarded a special
citation by King Paul of Greece
in a ceremony at the Royal Greek
Embassy in Washington, D.C., in
November.

The commendation came as the
result of Dr. Sander’s work with

 

SANDERS—cited by a king

Greek peasants while in that coun-
try during 1952-53.

Conferring the honor upon Dr.
Sanders in behalf of King Paul
was the ambassador of Greece,
Athanase G. Politis: ‘The Award,
the Gold Cross of the Royal Order
of the Phoenix, was given “in rec-
ognition of the most valuable ser-
vices rendered to Greece.” The cita-
tion further commended Dr. San-
ders for his interpretations of Greek
rural life while there. He became
one of the first social scientists ever
to examine peasant life in Greece
when he began his investigations
in 1952. An interpretative state-
ment which he prepared while in
Greece, entitled ““Peasants are Peo-
ple,” was widely circulated there
and claimed the attention of many
of the nation’s officials.

Dr. Sanders undertook the study
of peasant life, without sponsorship
of any governmental agency, while
on his sabbatical leave from the
University of Kentucky. At the pres-
ent time he is completing a detailed
analysis of Greek rural life, which
he plans to publish as a book.

 

 

Wives were welcome in Baltimore

APPALACHIAN

The Appalachian Chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Asso-
ciation held its annual meeting at
Hotel General Shelby in Bristol,
Virginia, on Saturday, October 9g.
A reception beginning at 6 o’clock
was followed by a dinner, with sixty
alumni and their wives present.

Professor Charles R. McDowell
represented the University and re-
ported on the activities of the school
including the suspension of inter-
collegiate football for the coming
session. Alumni feeling varies be-
tween the extremes of no subsid1-
zation and full subsidization with
considerable support for the center
position of moderate intercollegiate
subsidization to enable Washington
and Lee to play her natural rivals
in Virginia and neighboring states.

Judge A. G. Lively, ’12, Lebanon,
Virginia attorney, was elected presi-
dent of the chapter for the coming
year. Other officers elected were: I.
M. Quillen, ’24, secretary and treas-
urer, Lebanon; Henry M. Bandy,
Jr., 33, Norton; Robert P. London,
Jr., ’29, Johnson City, ‘Tenn.; James

16

CHAPTER NEWS

R. Lyle, ’48, Kingsport, ‘Tenn.; and
Edwin G. Shaffer, 48, Wytheville,
vice-presidents.

BALTIMORE

On October 16 eighty alumni and
friends gathered for a formal din-
ner at the Elkridge Country Club
in Baltimore for the fall meeting
of the local chapter. Representa-
tives of the University were Presi-
dent Gaines, Don Smith, Director
of University Development, James
Farrar, Assistant Dean of Students
and Cy Young, Alumni Secretary.

A social hour preceded a delight-
ful dinner at which Bill Pacy, Presi-
dent of the chapter, presided.

On behalf of the Baltimore Chap-
ter, Mr; -Pacy : presented: to. Dr.
Gaines a beautiful silver Paul Re-
vere bowl, to be known as the
Wheelwright Lacrosse trophy in
memory of Watson Wheelwright,
53, who was killed in the Korean
War. The trophy is to be awarded
each year to the Washington and
Lee Lacrosse player who best exem-
plifies leadership, sportsmanship
and ability.

Dr. Gaines made an inspiring
speech at the close of which he was
given a standing ovation. Cy Young
spoke briefly, thanking the Balti-
more alumni for the outstanding
cooperation they had given the
University in its recruitment pro-
eram, there being 247 students in
the freshman class from Baltimore.

BIRMINGHAM

The fall meeting of the Birming-
ham Alumni Chapter was held at
the Mountain Brook Country Club
on Tuesday, October 26, with 40
members present. A social hour pre-
ceded a delightful dinner, after
which Cy Young, Alumni Secretary,
brought the group up to date on
University activities. Jack Porter-
field, president of the chapter, pre-
sided at the meeting.

LYNCHBURG

A film on the life of General
Robert E. Lee was presented to the
Lynchburg public school system by
James R. Caskie, ’06, rector of the
Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees, as the gift of the local

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

chapter of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association. ‘The presenta-
tion was made on September 30,
1954, and received on behalf of the
schools by Mrs. Elizabeth J. Clark,
elementary supervisor and supervis-
or of teaching material for Lynch-
burg schools. ‘The film was shown
that day to approximately 250 mem-
bers of the seventh grade at Robert
E. Lee Elementary School.

The Lynchburg chapter of the
Alumni Association held an in-
formal meeting at the Oakwood
Country Club on October 5, at-
tended by about 50 alumni, discus-
sing the recent action of the Uni-
versity Board of ‘Trustees suspend-
ing football for the 1954 fall sea-
son. President Francis P. Gaines,
dean of students Frank J. Gilliam
and James R. Caskie, Lynchburg
alumnus and rector of the Wash-
ington and Lee Board of ‘Trustees,
were present by invitation.

Dr. Gaines was the first speaker
and reviewed the facts leading to
the action of the University Board.
He said: “The honor system and
student leadership faced a severe
test last year and they met it well.”
and added that today the honor
system and student leadership are
stronger than ever and student
backing is at its peak. ‘The financial
demands of the sport, together with
many other contributing faciors,
made the decision of the Board im-
perative. He further said: “Our job
is to provide the best possible train-
ing for the 1000 boys at W&L. A
well-rounded sports program is not
just for recreational purposes but
it is a necessary part of their edu-
cation. Next year we will have 11 or
12 intercollegiate sports—all invit-
ing wide student participation.”

Mr. Caskie, the rector of the
board, said: “The decision to can-
cel the 1954 schedule was reached
after every possibility for playing
it was removed.” He absolved all
faculty and administration officials
of responsibility for the decision.
“The Board of ‘Trustees alone is
responsible.”

Dean Gilliam told the group “we
want and need intercollegiate foot-

DECEMBER 1954

ball at W&L, and that is, to my
knowledge, a unanimous opinion of
the faculty.”

NEW YORK

The New York chapter of the
Alumni Association, comprised of
alumni in New York City, New Jer-
sey, Connecticut, Long Island and
Upstate New York, met at ‘Toots
Shor’s restaurant on November 19,
1954. In an atmosphere in which
leading figures of the Sports World
gather daily, it was fitting that the
main topic of discussion should be
the University’s present athletic
program involving football. Repre-
senting the University were Cy
Young, 717, James D. Farrar, '40,
and Donald E. Smith, Director of
University Development. Among
these honored guests were Norvin
C. Evans, °16, president of the
Louisville, Kentucky, alumni chap-
ter, and W. L. Webster, president
of the General Alumni Association.

Retiring president of the chapter,
Stuard A. Wurzburger, presided at
the meeting.

‘The following officers were elect-

ed: President, William M. Farrar,
"19; vice-president (New York City)
H. Richard Sandstrom, ’41; vice-
president (New Jersey) James
Franklin, ’35; vice-president (Long
Island) Clark B. Winter, ’37; vice-
president Upstate (New York) W.
L. Webster, ‘12; vice-president
(Connecticut) Leonard ‘T. Brown,
"19; Secretary, Richard A. Brunn,
"42; ‘Treasurer, Emmett W. Poin-
dexter, ’20; Members of Council;
Holmes M. Dyer, ’34, Stephen E.
Campbell, ’41, Frank ‘T. Bready,
°26, Donald S. Hillman, ’49.

Mr. Wurzburger presented the
following reports: "The New York
Endowment Fund, now over $5,000;
explanation of a Job Guidance Di-
rectory, being used at Lexington
and now being used by some other
chapters; a Virginia College ques-
tionnaire, sent out to determine
the feasibility of a general Alumni
Club with headquarters in New
York; the results of the Regional
Alumni Fund Drive with over 285
contributors in the area.

All agreed that the affair was a
highly successful one judging by
the attendance and enthusiasm.

 

37 Dr. Epwarp R. LEYBURN, retired

minister of the Presbyterian Church, was
the guest of his son, Dean Leyburn, in
Lexington for the month of August. He
is now living at 245 Beverly Road, N.E.,
Atlanta, Georgia.

9 9 James MULLEN is still actively en-

gaged in the practice of law as a member
of the firm of Williams, Mullen, Pollard
and Rogers, 1001 East Main Street, Rich-
mond 19, Virginia. He. has been a visitor to
the University several times during the
past year as a member of the Executive

Committee of the Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges.

02 OsMAN E. Swartz is rounding out
twenty-six years service as General Coun-
sel for United Carbon Company and fifty-
two years at the bar. He reports that his
health is excellent but his desire for hard
work grows less and less. Address: United
Carbon Building, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

E. RANDOLPH PRESTON and Mrs. Preston
were among the distinguished guests at

17

 

the opening of the “Jackson Home” in
Lexington on August 29. Mrs. Preston is
the granddaughter of General T. J. (Stone-
wall) Jackson. Address: 2844 Wisconsin
Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Dr. RosperT F. Cooper retired several years
ago as vice-president and Professor of
Social Service of Belhaven College, Jackscn,
Mississippi, but has been called back in
full service each year since that time. Ad-
dress: 1509 Ivy Street, Jackson 41, Missis-

sippi.

03 Farris A. SAMPSON went on a

special mission to Formosa last year where
he spent the winter, returning through
Europe just in time to attend the Alumni
Reunion in June. He enjoyed seeing some
of the “old boys’ of ’o2 and ’03, whom
he had not seen for fifty years, who were
“hale and hearty.” Address: 2121 Speed
Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky.

05 HANEY B. (Honey Boy) CONNER

has been teaching school in Louisiana
since 1904 and has constantly resided there
since that time. He has contributed a
significant poem:

“I’m not a graduate of Washington and
Lee .

But the ‘ole war skule’ did a lot for me

I received my degree from another school,

But if I didn’t contribute I’d feel like a

fool.

An alumnus is certainly a confirmed in-
erate

If he does not contribute, either early or
late.”

08 RosBErRT T. GRAY is Pastor of Union

and Salem Presbyterian Church, Union,
West Virginia, as well as Stated Clerk of
his Presbytery, and is teaching a Bible
class in the local high school. Reports the
big event for the past summer was the
homecoming of his Belgian-Congo mis-
sionary children, Rev. and Mrs. W. F.
Pruitt, and grandchildren, Billy 12, and
Bobby Gray, 10, after a five year absence.

Joun M. Brerer is General Manager of
Boston Woven Hose and Rubber Com-
pany, Boston 3, Massachusetts, and_ lives
at 98 Collins Road, Waban, Massachusetts.
His sons, JOHN COULTER, and JAMES HwuN-
TON are graduates of Washington and Lee
of the classes of 1937 and 1940 respectively.

18

PEYTON HosBson is a member of the law
firm of Hobson & Scott, First National
Bank Building, Pikeville, Kentucky.

R. C. MILLING is a member of the law firm
of Milling, Saal, Saunders, Benson &
Woodward, Whitney Building, New Or-
leans 12, Louisiana.

JupcE W. G. Lone, Class Agent for 1908-L,
is engaged in the practice of law with
his sons, W. G., Jr., ’36, at 10014 E. Paul,
Pauls Valley, Oklahoma.

09 Dr. J. W. Craupy has had an ac-

tive and useful life, first as a minister of
Presbyterian churches in Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania, and later as superintendent of
Western State Penitentiary, Rockview
Farm Prison, Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, and
warden of Western State Penitentiary,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is now re-
tired and living at 1627 Walnut Avenue,
Winter Park, Florida.

| On page 9 of The Report of the
1954 Alumni Fund, which was mailed
recently to all Alumni, the amount con-
tributed by the Academic Class of 1911
is given as $290. This is in error and
should read $920. Our apologies to ULEN
MeEpForD, ’11-A’s Class Agent.

/ 2 PauL A. ROCKWELL, living at 142
Hillside Street, Asheville, North Carolina,
keeps busy with his writing. His mother’s
recollections of the “Red Shirt Election,”
South Carolina 1876, were published in
the November Atlantic Monthly. His son,
KENNETH, B.A. ’52, now a Lieutenant (j. g.)
expected to get out of the Navy on No-
vember 18, after much interesting and
valuable experience.

Dr. WILLIAM N. HopcKIN was made presi-
dent elect of the Alumni Association at
the annual meeting of the Board of ‘Trus-
tees of the Medical College of Virginia,
Richmond, Virginia, on May 30, 1954, and
will take office on May 30, 1955, becoming
the second dentist ever to hold this po-
sition. Address: Box 556, Warrenton, Vir-
ginia.

/ 3 Frep W. McWankg, of Lynchburg,
chairman of the board of commissioners
of the Virginia State Ports Authority, at
Norfolk, was elected a director of the
American Association of Port Authorities
at the group’s annual meeting in San
Francisco, California, on November 3.

/ 4 Dr. DANIEL CRUMP BUCHANAN is
now Assistant Minister, Takoma Presby-
terian Church, Takoma Park, Maryland.
Born of missionary parents in Kobe, Japan,
Dr. Buchanan grew up speaking Japanese
and English with equal fluency, and
completed his high school and college edu-

cation in this country receiving the A.B. .

degree from Fredericksburg College and

the M.A. degree from Washington and Lee.
Returning to Japan under contract with
the Japanese Ministry of Education, he
taught the English language and American
cultural subjects in various high schools
and universities there. Shortly after the
entrance of the United States in World
War I, Dr. Buchanan volunteered for the
Army, and was in an officers training camp
when the armistice was signed. He entered
the theological seminary in April 1921, re-
ceived the B.D. degree, and was ordained
to the Christian ministry. He was married
to Miss Katherine Baetjer in 1921 and he
and his wife were commissioned mission-
aries to Japan, serving there for many
years. During furloughs Dr. Buchanan
did graduate studies at Hartford Seminary
and received his Ph.D. degree there in
1934. Returning to the United States a
few months before the outbreak of World
War II, he entered the service of the
Government and for twelve years held po-
sitions as Foreign Service Officer and
specialist on the Far East. ‘The Buchanans
have four children, all college graduates.

Dr. WILLIAM MOSELEY BROWN spent some
time in Europe during the summer, visit-
ing the British Isles, Luxembourg, France,
Germany, and Switzerland. In Luxem-
bourg he made a special study of the
educational system and was accorded a
fine reception by the Minister of National
Education, who decorated him with the
decoration of Officer of the Grand Ducal
Order of the Oak Wreath, which is
awarded to persons of outstanding achieve-
ments in their respective professions. ‘The
award was made in the name of the Grand
Dutchess Charlotte, through the office of
Prime Minister Joseph Bech. Address: Elon
College Sustaining Fund, Elon College,
North Carolina.

/ 6 HORNER C. FISHER was presented
with the American Bar Award of Merit,
citing the Florida State body as the out-
standing State Bar in the United States
during 1953, when he was president of
the organization. Presentation of the cov-
eted award was made by Darrey A. Davis of
Miami, current Florida Bar president, at
a banquet on October 22, at Hotel George
Washington in Palm Beach, midway in
the three-day quarterly conference of the
Florida Bar Board of Governors. The
award was made by the American Bar for:
1. A set of rules of civil procedure for
1954 for a speedier and less expensive
form of justice to the public, which was
accepted by the Florida Supreme Court;
2. A State Legal Ethics program; and
3. A State-wide public relations program.

/ 9 WILLIAM M. FARRAR, JR., iS NOW as-
sociated with Coffin & Burr, Incorporated,
70 Pine Street, New York 5, New York.

2 0 WILLIAM E. JouNsTON, Sales Mana-
ager, Southern District, The American
Sugar Refining Company, has been ap-
pointed Director of Sales—Southern Terri-
tory, with headquarters in New Orleans,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Louisiana. Mr. Johnston has been actively
identified with the company’s sales staff
for 32 years.

Dr. Houmes Rousron, editor-in-chief of
the Presbyterian Board of Education, Rich-
mond, Virginia, is the author of Person-
alities Around Paul, published October 1
by the John Knox Press of Richmond.
Reviewing the book in a recent issue of
The Rockbridge County News, DR. FITz-
GERALD Flournoy, B.A., ’21, M.A. ’22, pro-
fessor of English at Washington and Lee,
says, “Dr. Rolston has long been one of
the most fruitful scholars of the Southern
Presbyterian Church, and in his latest
book he proves himself to be also an
essayist of charm, grace, ripeness and hu-
mor.”

KENNETH C. Patty will return as an as-
sistant attorney general to Attorney Gen-
eral J. Lindsay Almond, Jr., of Virginia,
having resigned about three years ago to
enter private practice after 14 years as
an assistant attorney general. A former
resident of Tazewell County, he has lived
in Richmond since he came there in 1936
as assistant state counsel for the Home
Owner Loan Corporation. He was appoint-
ed by the late Attorney General A. P.
STAPLES, ’08, in 1937, aS assistant in charge
of legal affairs for the Unemployment
Compensation Commission, and left this
position in 1951. Patty is a World War I
veteran, former chairman of the Tazewell
County Democratic Committee, former
mayor of Bluefield, Virginia, and imme-
diate past president of the Virginia So-
ciety, Sons of the American Revolution.
Address: Central National Bank Building,
Richmond, Virginia.

2/1 Dr. SAMUEL L. RAINES, assistant

professor in the Department of Urological
Surgery at the University of ‘Tennessee
College of Medicine, was recently advanc-
ed to professor and made head of the De-
partment. He has been a member of
the staff since 1929. His son, RIcHARD
BROADNAX, is in his second year at Wash-
ington and Lee.

2 f GLENN R. SrouTT is secretary and

director of United Hosiery Mills Corpor-
ation, Chattanooga, Tennessee. Address:
1281 Duane Road, Chattanooga 5, Tennes-
see.

SYDNEY ANDERSON LAWLER, co-producer
with Cheryl Crawford of the current hit,
“Oh, Men! Oh, Women!” declares that
he is a “jack of all trades in the theatre.”
He has had a career in the theatre which
embraces acting and directing, as well as
work as an agent, a manager, a talent
scout, a motion picture producer, and a
television personality. Address: 14 East
52nd Street, New York, New York.

25 Dr. ANDREW T. Roy left this

country in March to do some exploratory
work in Hong Kong under the Board of

DECEMBER 1954

Foreign Missions and Overseas Inter-
church Service of the Presbyterian Church
in the United States. He has now decided
that he will remain there indefinitely.
Mrs. Roy will join him there within a
few months. Address: Room 426, European
YMCA, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

JoHn W. Hocker, M.D., after leaving
Washington and Lee graduated from Van-
derbilt Medical School in 1931; followed
by three more years of specialty training
at various hospitals over the country. He
started practice in Chattanooga, ‘Tennes-
see in 1934. He has four daughters, the
oldest 16, and the youngest 6, and ad-
mits there is never a dull moment at
his house. Address: 605 Lindsay Street,
Chattanooga 3, ‘Vennessee.

26 ALMAND R. COLEMAN, CPA, was a
participant in a discussion on “Do Gen-
erally Accepted Accounting Principles Re-
late Only to Commercial and Industrial
Organizations” at the 67th annual meet-
ing of the American Institute of Account-
ants in New York City, October 17-21.
Some 2,500 CPA’s and guests from all parts
of the United States attended the meet-
ing. Professor Coleman is a member of the
committee on accounting procedure and
awards of the American Institute of Ac-
countants and a past member of its advis-
ory committee on the CPA examination.

Professor Coleman is on one year’s leave
of absence as head of the department of
accounting at Washington and Lee and
is currently visiting professor of account-
ing at the Graduate School of Business at
Harvard University.

2/ Dr. J. PRESTON Moore, accom-

panied by his family, spent last year in
Spain on Sabbatical leave from the History
Department of Louisiana State University,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

 

COLEMAN, ’26

GEORGE E. Burks is kept young by his in-
terest in several hobbies, among them, the
one that brings him the most pleasure is
working with high school students. He
always tries to sell them on Washington
and Lee. ‘Vhis year there are eight fresh-
men who hail from Louisville. Address:
405-6 Washington Building, Louisville,
Kentucky.

2 & CHARLES A. STRAHORN iS vice- presi-

dent and cashier of Winnetka Trust and
Savings Bank, Winnetka, Hlinois. He and
his wife were on hand for the Alumni
Reunion in June and had a good time.
Address: 825 Oak Street, Winnetka, II-
linois.

JoHN D. McHUuGH is assistant counsel for
the Public Utilities Commission of the
State of Connecticut; doing some private
practice on the side; and is prosecutor
of the Orange Town Court. He has four
children, Larry, 14, Judy, 12, Jack, Jr., 8,
and Peter, 5. Address: R.F.D. No. 2,
Orange, Connecticut.

29 ALLEN B. MORGAN, executive vice-

president and director of The First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis, has been elected
to the directorate of The Continental
Banking Company. He is regional vice-
president of the American Bankers Asso-
ciation and chairman of the public rela-
tions committee of the Reserve City Bank-
ers Association.

CAMPBELL HUTCHINSON, JR., Hutchinson
Insurance Agency, 1001 Commercial Build-
ing, Shreveport, Louisiana, has a son in
the freshman class this year.

3 0 SAM RAYDER, executive vice-presi-

dent of the Rockbridge National Bank,
Lexington, Virginia, marked 30 years ser-
vice with the bank on October 16, 1954.
He entered Washington and Lee in 1924
and joined the staff of the Rockbridge
Bank at the same time as a file clerk. He
received his LL.B. at Washington and Lee
in 1930, and married the former Miss
Marie Hotinger of Lexington. They have
three children, two daughters and a son.
In recognition of his loyal and efficient
service the directors of the bank pre-
sented him with a handsome watch.

HERBERT G. JAHNCKE was elected vice-
president and treasurer of Jahncke Ser-
vices, Incorporated, on September 28,
1954. Address: Jahncke Services, New Or-
leans, Louisiana.

Rosy K. SUTHERLAND, 45-year-old Pulaski,
Virginia, attorney, cn October 12, was
appointed treasurer of Pulaski County to
fill out the unexpired term of J. FRANK
Wysor, ’03, who died October 8, 1954.

3 / Dr. RENO RUSSELL PORTER, Rich-
mond, Virginia, heart specialist, was the

Lg

 

principal speaker at the Medical Forum
on “Heart Disease,” sponsored by the
Richmond Academy of Medicine on Oc-
tober 5.

EUGENE JOHNSON has been with the duPont
Company since leaving Washington and
Lee in 1933, with the exception of two
years during the war. He is located in
Waynesboro, Virginia, engaged in the
manufacture of acetate yarn. The Johnsons
have three children, Eugene, III, Lucite,
12, and Van 7. Address: 816 Fourteenth
Street, Waynesboro, Virginia.

Harris JOHNSON Cox, B.S. ’31, has re-
signed as vice-president of Western Geo-
physical Company of America, and also
as Canadian Manager of Western, and has
formed his own exploration company,
under the name of ‘Talon Exploration
Limited, with present headquarters in the
F. W. Clark Building in Calgary, Alberta.
Mr. Cox has already undertaken to drill
a sizeable number of wildcats in Manitoba,
Canada. The Manitoba project is the first
drilling operation for Harris Cox, widely
known geophysicist. He has had a wide
experience in the petroleum industry,
having served in various parts of the
United States, South America, the Nether-
lands, Indies and in Canada. During
World War II he served as a Lieutenant
Commander in the South Pacific in Naval
Intelligence on the staff of Admiral Wil-
liam F. Halsey, U.S.N. (Retired). He is
married to a former New Zealand girl and
they have one son, David, aged 54% years.
Harris Cox is a nephew of Dr. Grover
Hancock, former Dean of the Commerce
School of Washington and Lee, and Mrs.
Hancock. Residence address: 1106 Talon
Avenue, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

3 2 MALCOLM D. CAMPBELL, who has

been southeastern regional sales manager
for Investors Diversified Services, Inc.,
since 1943, has been appointed general
sales manager, it was announced from the
Company's home office in Minneapolis
recently. The appointment will become
effective January 1, 1955. Mr. and Mrs.
Campbell and their two children will
move to Minneapolis after the first of
the year.

In addition to the administration of the
home office sales department and the
large IDS field sales organization, Mr.
Campbell’s responsibilities will include
planning the selection and training of per-
sonnel.

Mr. Campbell brings to his new posi-
tion an IDS general sales background de-

20

rived from 22 years experience with the
Company. He graduated from Washington
and Lee with the B.S. degree in 1932, and
started his career with Investors.

He has held every job in the sales or-
ganization, advancing steadily from rep-
resentative to divisional manager, a pro-
motion he won in 1942, and then to
regional manager, the position he has oc-
cupied since 1943, with the exception of
two years spent in the service of the United
States Navy.

33 LUTHER F. VIOLETT went to Pitts-

burgh as District Manager for Dun &
Bradstreet on February 15, after having
been with the company in New York
about seven years. He was moved to Bos-
ton as Regional Manager for New Eng-
land as of August 15. Having served as
Class Agent for the Alumni Fund longer
than any agent the Fund has ever had, the
Alumni Office regrets that he finds it
impossible to take it on for another year.
Address: P. O. Box 382, Back Bay Annex,
Boston 17, Massachusetts.

RicHArb I. (Dick) BUTLER, former presi-
dent of the South Atlantic League, be-
came president of the Texas League on
November 1, 1954. Following graduation
here, he returned to his home town, Paris,
Kentucky, as assistant high school football
coach. During the early days of World
War II, Butler enlisted in the Air Corps
as a private and before he was discharged
four years later, he had attained the
rank of major, serving as athletic director
for the Eighth Air Force in England. Re-
turning to this country he became con-
nected with “Happy” Chandler, when the
Kentuckian was Commissioner of Organ-
ized Baseball, where he learned the ropes,
later becoming Chandler’s aide.

W. J. (Bill) Brooks is now Zone Manager
for Pontiac Motor Division, General
Motors Corporation, in Atlanta Zone and
is responsible for sales and service for the

 

CAMPBELL, °32

Southeast. Also, he has now moved into his
new home which gives him a congenial
occupation, as working around his house
and yard is his greatest hobby. Address:
Care of Pontiac Motor Division, Rhodes-
Haverty Building, 134 Peachtree Street,
N. W., Atlanta 3, Georgia.

WALLACE WERBLE is editor of F-D-C Re-
ports, a weekly Washington trade publi-
cation for top executives in the drug and
cosmetic industries, and F-D-C Drug Let-
ter, a weekly news letter for retail phar-
macists. He has been editor of the former
for over 15 years—with two years out for
the Army—and established the latter three
years ago. The Werbles have two sons,
Wallace, Jr., 11 years old, and Cole Cal-
mer, 3. Address: 3311 Rittenhouse Street,
Washington, D. C.

3 4 WaLpo G. MILES was elected vice-

president of the Virginia State Bar Asso-
ciation for the southwest, at its annual
meeting in August at the Greenbrier. Ad-
dress: Jones, Woodward & Miles, Bristol,
Virginia.

RicHARD F. FAULKNER, former Station
WMAQ radio salesman, has joined the
NBC Central Division radio network sales
staff as an account executive. Faulkner
has been in the broadcasting industry
since 1934, with the exception of a three-
and-half-year period as manager of a sales
division for a Chicago wholesale distribut-
ing company. He started at Station KDKA,
Pittsburgh; later worked at other eastern
stations, and joined Station WBMA in
Chicago in 1939. He has served as an-
nouncer, program director, production
manager and night supervisor during his
broadcasting service. He joined the
WMAQ sales staff in May, 1951, and trans-
ferred to the NBC network office as of
November 1, 1954.

WittiAM A. GLover is engaged in the
practice of law as associate of W. D. Mar-
shall, Exchange Building, Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee, specializing in Federal and state
tax matters since December, 1945.

35 James M. FRANKLIN was awarded

the professional designation of Chartered
Life Underwriter by the American Col-
lege of Life Underwriters on September
22, 1954. He is with the Provident Mutual
Life Insurance Company of Philadelphia,
Suite 1534, 111 St. John Street, New York
7, New York.

JAMES STERRETT Woops is treasurer of
Pennsylvania Glass Sand Corporation,
Lewistown, Pennsylvania and has other
local interests including the Lewistown ra-
dio station. He has three boys, 14, 9, and 6.

GILBERT C. McKown, after graduation
here, finished his law work at the Uni-
versity of Richmond and is practicing law
in Berryville, Virginia, and operating his
farm.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

IRVIN CALHOUN devotes his whole time to
“selling lumber” at the Coulbourn Lum-
ber Company in Suffolk, Virginia. A large
part of the lumber production is from
the family saw mills at Windsor, North
Carolina, which are operated by three of
his brothers and himself in partnership.

Epwin T. CouLsourn, formerly with the
Coulbourn family lumber and_ dairy
business in Suffolk, has taken over the
dairy interests and moved his law office
to the Greenfield Dairy Building, Suffolk,
Virginia, in order to centralize his ac-
tivities.

36 Jor PrTTE has spent most of his

leisure time for the past four years work-
ing with Little League baseball, Rock-
ville Centre, Long Island, New York,
which keeps him busy, but he loves work-
ing with the boys. He has had four
championship teams, and says all he does
is instill the W&L spirit in them and
the rest is easy. When his letter was
written in July, he was starting to work
with the All-Stars getting them ready for
the National Tournament. Two of Joe’s
own three boys are playing now; youngest,
six years old, will be ready in two years;
the oldest, 11 years old, won the Pitcher’s
Award last year. It looks like the young
Pettes will continue the family athletic
tradition at Washington and Lee. Joe, Sr.
is working with United States Printing
and Litho Co., Brooklyn, New York. Home
address: 14 Strathmore Lane, Rockville
Centre, Long Island, New York.

J. WARREN Waricut of Marion, Virginia,
has been named to the three-man State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and
will take office as soon after December 15
as he can wind up his business as ad-
ministrator of Lee Memorial Hospital at
Marion.

GLENN SHIVELY is still in the automobile
sales business, Packard - Hudson - Mack
Trucks, 204 Lincoln Way West, Chambers-
burg, Pennsylvania. The Shivelys have two
potential wrestling champions on _ the
way, Gerald Bruce, 10 years old and
Michael Glenn, 21%.

W. Macruper Drake completed his work
in the Graduate School at the University
of North Carolina in July and was award-
ed the Ph.D. degree in History at the end
of the summer session. He is teaching at

Davidson this year as Assistant Professor
of History.

3 7 GEORGE RATHER JONES is a pilot for

Braniff Airways. He married Eleanor
Fordham of Dallas, Texas, and they have
three children, girl 10, boy 3, and a boy
18 months old. Address: 3617 Potomac
Avenue, Dallas 5, Texas.

3 & C. PricE BEeRryMAN has recently

sold his lumber interests in Oklahoma
where he has been living and will be

DECEMBER 1954

moving back to Kansas as soon as new
locations can be developed there. The
Prices have three children, a girl, 4 boy, 3,
and a baby girl born January 12, 1954.
Address: Box 963, Miami, Oklahoma.

3 9 CHARLES G. GILMORE has received

the professional designation of Chartered
Casualty Underwriter, known as C.P.C.U.
This designation is awarded by the Amer-
ican Institute of Property and Liability
Underwriters, Inc., of Philadelphia. ‘There
are now slightly more than 1,000 C.P.C.U.’s
in the United States. Address: Marsh &
McLennan, Inc., Koppers Building, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania.

GrorcE Evans Goopwin has been appoint-
ed one of three vice-presidents of the First
National Bank of Atlanta. Mr. Goodwin,
a former member of The Atlanta Journal
news staff, has been since 1952 executive
director of the Central Atlanta Improve-
ment Association. A native of Atlanta, he
graduated with the A.B. degree in 1939,
and during World War II served as a
Navy intelligence officer in the Pacific and
from 1945 until 1952 was with the Journal.
He received the Pulitzer Prize for local
reporting of his expose of vote frauds in
Telfair County, Georgia, in the general
election of November 5, 1946, and also the
Pall Mall Big Story award and a travel
fellowship to Israel in the Middle East
award by the American Christian Pales-
tine Committee. Residence address: 930
Dean Drive, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia.

JAY Sorce is with the law firm of Hill,
Lewis, Andrews, Ganse & Adams in the
Penobscot Building in Detroit. Home ad-
dress: 619 Rivard Boulevard, Grosse
Pointe, Michigan.

Nei Houston has returned from 24%
years in Honolulu with the Island Trad-
ing Company of Micronesia and is now
an Associate Economist with the Stanford
Research Institute in Palo Alto. Home ad-
dress: 2130 Barbara Drive, Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia.

WILLIAM J. (BILL) YouNG is with John
Wanamaker in Philadelphia and has re-
cently built himself a new house at 2504
Huntington Lane, Merion Golf Manor,
Pennsylvania.

Dr. BEN R. LAWTON is Visiting Professor
of Missions for the 1954-55 session of New
Orleans Baptist ‘Theological Seminary.
Home on furlough from his assignment as
President of the Baptist Theological Sem-
inary, Rivoli-Turin, Italy, Dr. Lawton will
teach the basic missions courses in the
theological curriculum. He received his
A.B. degree here in 1939, was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa; and the Th.M. and
Th.D. from Southern Theological Sem-
inary in 1943 and 1947. He was married
to the former Patsy Patterson in 1940 and
they have three children, Benjamin Ray,
10; Patrick Scott, 8; and Elena Lucille, 1.
The Lawtons sailed to Italy in 1947, ap-
pointed by the Foreign Mission Board to
re-open the Baptist Seminary then lo-

cated in Rome, but closed during the
Fascist regime. ‘The seminary was moved
to Rivoli-Turin and reopened in 1948.
Address: ‘‘Missionary’s Home.” 3939 Gen-
tilly Blvd.. New Orleans, Louisiana.

4] ROBERT M. SWEENEY is General
Freight Agent for Grace & Co., (Pacific
Coast), 2 Pine Street, San Francisco, Cal-
ifornia.

PETER BARROW is now associated with Wil-
liam H. Sanders in the general practice
of law under the firm name of Sanders
and Barrow with office located at Prince-
ton Bank & ‘Trust Company Building,
Princeton, West Virginia.

4 2 THomas M. Cox is now associated

with Courtney Lacey in the general prac-
tice of law at 414 East Florida Avenue,
Hemet, California.

ROBERT F. CAMPBELL, JR., is now city edi-
tor of the Asheville Citizen, Asheville,
North Carolina. He married Anne Eliza-
beth Damtoft in 1949 and they have two
children: Betsy, age 4; and Walter Robert,
14%. Address: 18 Woodvale, Asheville,
North Carolina.

Dr. GEorGE F. PARTON is happily finishing
his first year of practice in East Hartford,
Connecticut. Family consists of George
III, age 3; and Patricia, age 2. Address: 58
High Street, South Glastonbury, Connecti-
cut.

Dr. MicHaEL W. Lau has recently moved
to California and is practicing urology in
Los Angeles. He was married July 3, 1952.
Residence address: 318-A South Reeves
Drive, Beverly Hills, California. Business:
1893 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California.

RAYMOND R. RUSSELL, JR., member of the
City Council, served for a few months as
Mayor pro tem of the “thriving village”’
of San Antonio, Texas, during the illness
of the Mayor; meeting trains, planes,
buses, etc. He has laid cornerstones, cut
ribbons and met Miss so-forth and so on.
He has had fun doing it, but is glad to be
back on the job of running the Phoenix
Refining Company. Address: Box 1358,
San Antonio, Texas.

43 SAMUEL J. GRAHAM is a life under-

writer for the Prudential Insurance Com-
pany of America, with offices at Suite 1090,
Huntington National Bank Building, 17
South High Street, Columbus 15, Ohio. He
is married and has three lovely children.

R. Gorpdon LonG is presently employed as
Industrial Engineer with Bethlehem Steel
Company at their Sparrow Point Plant,
Sparrow Point, Maryland.

44 Dr. E. Lovett BECKER in June,

1954, was on active duty with the U.S. Air

21

 

 

 

Force as Captain assigned to School of
Aviation Medicine, Randolph AFB, ‘Tex-
as, department of internal medicine.

45 THe REVEREND STANROD T. CAR-

MICHAEL is Vicar of the Church of the Epi-
phany, 41 Prospect Street, Newport, New
Hampshire.

46 Dr. RocerR M. WINBORNE, JrR., is

now a resident at the University Hospital
at Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He fin-
ished his third year in Internal Medicine,
July 1 and has a fellowship there next
year.

48 WILLIAM EARL TUCKER 1S now as-

sistant to the County Solicitor of Hill-
borough County, Florida. He is practicing
law at 201 Stovall Professional Building,
30%, Morgan Street, Tampa 2, Florida. His
family consists of his wife, Gloria W.
Tucker, to whom he was married while
in Law School here, and two daughters,

Pamela Suzanne and Karen Lee, ages 5
and 4 respectively. The Tuckers are build-
ing a new home at 933 Beacon Avenue,
Tampa, Florida.

COLEMAN BEAN, graduate of West Point
Military Academy and Lieutenant in the
Air Force since 1950, resigned from ac-
tive service as of June 1, 1954, and has en-
tered the University of Virginia Law
School. He saw service in England and
French Morocco and his last post was Ros-
well, New Mexico.

Jounson McREE, JR., has opened a branch
office as a C.P.A. in Manassas, Virginia,
for his employers, Baker, Brydon, Rey-
nolds and Whitt, C.P.A.’s, to serve the
Northern Virginia area.

B. C. Torey, JR., is now associated in the
private practice of law with John E.
Larsen with offices at Suite 910, 730 15th
Street, N. W., Washington, D.C. He was
formerly with the Civil Division of the
Department of Justice, Office of the Gen-
eral Counsel of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission and the Federal ‘Trade
Commission. Mr. Larson’s son, John, is
now a freshman at Washington and Lee.

49 EveRETTE L. TAytor, Jr., will re-

ceive his M.D. degree from Duke in De-
cember, 1954, and then will begin his in-
ternship. He was married in September,
1953, to Carol Anderson of Princeton,
West Virginia, who is a graduate of the
Duke University School of Nursing and
is currently on the staff at Duke Hospital.
Address: Box 2857, Duke Hospital, Dur-
ham, North Carolina.

Tuomas S. Hook, Jr., is handling public-
ity for The Black & Decker Manutfactur-
ing Company, of ‘Towson, Maryland, mak-
ers of portable electric tools widely used
in the now very popular Do-it-Yourself
trend for home industry. Many of the top
magazines for the general public are
carrying a good many articles for “do-it-
yourselfers.”. Tom is also Public Rela-
tions Chairman for the Maryland Indus-
trial Marketers, a chapter of the National
Industrial Advertisers Association. Resi-
dence address: g East Preston Street, Bal-
timore, Maryland.

Ropert E. Ler, IV, has been appointed
national advertising manager of the San
Francisco Chronicle. He is a great-grand-
son of General Robert E. Lee, graduated
here with the B.S. degree in 1949, and has
been with the Chronicle since 1951. He
served as an infantry sergeant in Europe
during World War II.

Mason GORDON ROBERTSON received the
M.D. degree from the Medical School,
University of Virginia, in June, 1954. He
will interne at Emory University Hospi-
tal, Atlanta, Georgia.

51 Joun W. Kay has accepted a po-
sition with the Armstrong Cork Company
and has entered the firm’s Industrial Di-
vision sales training program. He was re-
cently inducted into the company by
means of an Introductory Week Program
designed to give new men the history and
policies of Armstrong. At Washington and
Lee, Kay was a member of Sigma Chi. He
lettered for four years as a guard on the
football squad.

© OOO OOOO OOOO OOGOOOHDOH OHO GOOTGOHHHSHHOOHHOHHOSGHFHHOHHHFHHHHHHHHHDOOHHSHHHHOTOOHHHHOHDOS

m BEVERLY T. FITZPATRICK, 34-year-
old assistant Commonwealth's At-
torney of Roanoke, Virginia, has
been named chief Municipal Court
Judge to succeed the late Judge S.
R. Price. The appointment was
made by the Roanoke City Council
on September 1, to fill the remain-
ing go days of Judge Price's term,
expiring September go, and to a
four-year term starting October 1.
Under wording of the City Charter,
he is the chief municipal judge.

A native of Roanoke, Fitzpatrick
came to Washington and Lee in
1939 receiving the B.A. degree in
1943. He immediately entered the
Navy and was discharged in 1946
as lieutenant (j.g.). He came back
to Washington and Lee Law School
and graduated with the LL.B. de-
eree in June 1948. He received one
of the highest awards here—the

22

 

Literary Society's annual award
for distinguished service to the
school, being chosen for the honor

 

FITZPATRICK, *43

by student and faculty committees
for “outstanding contributions in
almost every line of campus activ-
ity.’ He was a member of Kappa
Sigma, social fraternity, and ODK,
honorary society.

Returning to Roanoke after
graduating from the Law School
and passing the State Bar examina-
tion, he became assistant Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, which office
he held until his elevation to the
judgeship.

He is a member of the Second
Presbyterian Church and of its
board of deacons, a member of the
Roanoke Bar Association and the
Virginia State Bar Association. He
was married to the former Helen
Chewning in 1943, and they have
three sons. Their home is at 2425
Nottingham Road, Sherwood For-
est, Roanoke.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RicHARD E. WuiTson, Jr., has resigned
from the Atomic Energy Commission and
is now associated with Hercules Powder
Company undergoing a training program.
‘Temporary address: 138 Eichelberger
Street, Hanover, Pennsylvania.

Doucias M. SmirH is with Hall & Martin,
Attorneys, Law Building, Newport News,
Virginia.

jJAMes C. FENHAGEN trans:erred to Sewa-
nee—University of the South, at the end
of his junior year, where he received his
B.A., and remained there at the Theo-
logical School. In 1954 he received the
B.D. degree from Virginia Theological
Seminary, and was ordained in June, 1954.
He is now assistant at the Church of the
Holy Nativity, Garrison Boulevard and
Egerton Road, Baltimore 15, Maryland.
Home address: 108 Elmwood Road, Balti-
nore 10, Maryland.

RicHarp R. McDonatLp has been with the
U. S. Geological Survey since June, 1951.
He spent over a year in Alaska, mostly in
the Aleutian Islands, studying volcanoes
and earthquakes on a project for the Navy,
and was then in the office in Washington,
writing up a lengthy report on the Alaska
tour of duty. Next came four months on
the Colorado Plateau doing a regional
survey studying gravitational fields of the
rocks for the Atomic Energy Commission.
He has now been in Cuba since July 1,
1954, engaged in a project supported
jointly by the United States and Cuban
government, trying to locate deposits of
chromium, and expects this job to last
from one to two years. He plans ultimate:
ly to return to graduate school at Har-
vard, but may spend some time in the
Navy first. Address: United States Geo-
logical Survey, Apartado 654, Camaguey,
Cuba.

Eric G. Curry, JR., is now out of the Air
Force and is with Crown, Cork & Seal, Bal-
timore, Maryland, in industrial account-
ing. Address: 2842 Guilford Avenue, Bal-
timore 18, Maryland.

52 ‘THOMAS P. WINBORNE is Stationed

in Salzburg, Austria, and is in the Judge
Advocate Department, Tactical Command.
Home address: 209 Highland Avenue, Le-
noir, North Carolina.

HARRY R. LITCHFIELD, M.D., F.A.C.P., has
been in the Mediterranean with the 6th
Fleet aboard a Destroyer, as an engineer.
Address: 60 Plaza Street, Brooklyn 17,
New York.

Pvt. BENNO M. ForMan is serving as radio
program supervisor at Camp_ Stewart,
Georgia. The Roanoke Times of Novem-
ber 16 carried a picture of Benno inter-
viewing Col. James F. Eason, also a native
Roanoker and commander of the 1th
Anti-Aircraft Artillery Group at Camp
Stewart, for the post radio program at
Stewart.

DECEMBER 1954

 

Tom Hook, Class of ’49, doffs his white
collar to demonstrate a new 3/8 inch
drill for advanced home handymen and
the service trades. Here he uses a screw
driving attachment that drives screws 30
times faster than possible by hand.

JOsEPH J. MULLINs, JR., now a third year
student at Harvard Law School, has been
awarded an Alumni Scholarship for 1954-
55. He received a National Scholarship
for the academic year 1952-53. His home
is in Clinton, Alabama.

PAUL Davis WEI its still with the Marines,
attached to the West Coast Island Defense
Unit as an Assistant Island Defense Com-
mander on one of the islands in the U.S.
command. Home address: 190 Evans Ave.,
Freeport, New York.

53 ROBERT C. SMITH, Buena Vista, Vir-

ginia, Attorney, has been appointed judge
of the Municipal Court by City Council
for a two year term beginning Sept. 1.

RoBERT H. ‘THOMAS was commissioned in
the Navy in August, 1953, and reported
to the USS Princeton (Aircraft carrier) for
duty in San Diego, California. His duty
has consisted of about five months on
board ship conducting flight operations off
the California coast and in the shipyard
at Bremerton, Washington. The remain-
ing months have been spent in the U.S.N.
Hospital with a broken leg, first from
playing touch ball on the beach and then
a rebreak from skiing in Stevens Park,
Washington. Address: 3815 Monticello
Drive, Ft. Worth, Texas.

5 G BEN WALDEN was inducted into the

Army in February and stationed at Fort
Knox. Completing his training there in
July, he was assigned to the Classification
and Assignment branch of the Adjutant
General’s branch. PEYTON KULMAN, ’51,
was already in the office and other ex-

Minks in the same contingent are Dick
VEDDER, 55, RALPH BURCHNAL, 54, and JAY
GROSSMAN, 753, the only officer in the
bunch. Ben was married in April to Mar-
garet Elliott of Lancaster, Kentucky, and
they are living at 511 Diecks Drive, Eliza-
bethtown, Kentucky, which is about 15
miles from Fort Knox.

WitttiAM D. McHenry, recently assistant
coach Pennsylvania Military College, Ches-
ter, Pennsylvania, has been inducted into
Army service. He hopes for a Special Ser-
vice assignment supervising military sports.
Graduating here this past June, he played
both football and lacrosse for four years,
in both of which he achieved outstand-
ing note and was co-captain in his senior
year. He was chosen to play in a North-
South Blue-Grey college stars’ contest,
which is the annual pride of Montgom-
ery, Alabama, playing with the Confed-
erate Greys as a temporary Virginian. As
a climax he played last August 14 with the
nation’s collegiate all-stars in Soldiers’
Field, Chicago, against the current pro
champions, the Detroit Lions. Home: 618
Parrish Road, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania.

J. W. (Ben) BENJAMIN is now with the edi-
torial department of Proctor and Gamble
Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, on the staff of their
magazine. Address: J. W. Benjamin, Jr.,
The L. B. Harrison Club, 2368 Victory
Parkway at McMillan, Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

E. Ross WAGNER, JR., entered Marine basic
school at Quantico in March and complet-
ed same on August 21 with the rank of
end. Lt. The following day he was mar-
ried to Ava Ann Spears of Baltimore. He
has been assigned to Camp Pendleton and
will be transferred to Japan in February.
His wife accompanied him to Pendleton.
He has requested appointment to the Reg-
ulars and will make the Corps his career.

 

1939

THomas W. BRADLEY, JR., was married to
Evelyn Byrd Stant on December 21, 1953,
at Bristol, Virginia.
1940
JAMES WUNDER [ABB was married to Myra
Ann Bubert on August 14, 1954, in Cleve-
land, Ohio.
1946
WILLIAM ALBIN MAGEE was married to
Virginia Gill Watson, September 25, 1954.
1949

WILLIAM DU Bots BIEN was married to
Alice Long Pendleton on October 15, 1954.

23

 

 

Joun Watkur McCoy was married to Iris
Josephine Tolley on November 6, 1954, in
Lexington, Virginia.

1950

THE Rev. HENRY CAUSEY BARTON, JR., Was
married to Ann Leighton Simmons on
October 22, 1954.

1951

M.. THeoporE VAN LEER was married to
Susan Duff on April 24, 1954, and has a
new address at 88 South Mountain Avenue,
Montclair, New Jersey.

James Z. SHANKS was married to Sheila
Grace Graf in August, 1954.

1952

JAMES REECE DUNDEE MOFFATT was mar-
ried to June Elizabeth Deakins on Sep-
tember 11, 1954. Graduating here with the
A.B. degree in 1954, he is now in the Law
School.

1953

ALAN WEBER was married to Mary Angela
Russell on October 23, 1954, in Ashland,
Ohio. |

1954

SEDGWICK L. Moss was married to Virginia
R. Gilliam on August 14, 1954, in Raleigh,
North Carolina.

JAMES BUCHANAN ANDREWS, II, was married
to Lucy Brown Bassett on October 16,

1954-

HERWIG RUDOLPH BRANDSTETTER Was Mar-
ried to Herta Moser on October 12, 1954,
in the Graz Cathedral. Address: 77 Eliza-
bethstrasse, Gras, Austria.

 

1935

Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN M. HARRELSON are
the parents of a son, David Lee Harrelson,
born August 15, 1954-

1936

Dr. and Mrs. SOUTHER FULTON ‘TOMPKINS
are the parents of a daughter, Sarah Ellen,
born October 18, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. FLETCHER F. MAYNARD are
the parents of a son, Bond Dashiell May-
nard, born October 2, 1954.

Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH G. MCDONALD are
the parents of a son, Kenneth G., Jr., born
September 6, 1954.

24

1937

Mr. and Mrs. Ropert M. PEEK, JR., are
the parents of a son, Richard David Peek,
born November 13, 1954.

1938

Mr. and Mr. JoHn W. Ray are the par-
ents of a daughter, Barbara Helen, born
October 7, 1954.

1939

Dr. and Mrs. FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES,
Jr., are the parents of a daughter, Sally
duVergne Gaines, born September 14, 1954-
Dr. Gaines is President of Wofford Col-
lege, Spartanburg, South Carolina.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. ARMSTRONG are
the parents of a son, William H., Jr., born
October 20, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. Epwin FLEMING Robs, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Peyton Thomp-
son Robb, born November 8, 1954.

Mr. and Mr.s JAMES STAFFORD JEFFERSON
are the parents of a son, William Alfred,
born December 7, 1953-

1947

Mr. and Mrs. JAck A. CrRowber are the

parents of a son, Jack Andrew, jr., born.

September 18, 1954.

1948

Mr. and Mrs. R. GALT WELLES are the
parents of a son, David Aspinwall, born
October 16, 1954.

1949

Capt. and Mrs. PAuL J. B. MURPHY, JR., are
the parents of a son, Paul J. B. Murphy,
III, born November 20, 1954, at Fort
Benning, Georgia.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. (JAKE) BERRY, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Harry A., II,
born November 20, 1954, in Millington,
‘Tennessee.

Mr. and Mrs. JAcK B. PORTERFIELD, JR.,
are the parents of a second son, Jeffery
Alexander, born September 2, 1954.

1950

Rev. and Mrs. SAMUEL S. Opom are the
parents of a daughter, Marguerite Taylor,
born October 26, 1954.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. JosEPpH B. MCCUTCHEON are
the parents of a son, Joseph Baker, Jr.,
born October 1, 1954.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. CLirron TREADWAY (Ted)
Hunt, Jr., are the parents of a daughter,
Harriet Ann, born October 10, 1954.

 

1903

J. Frank Wysor, veteran member o: the
Virginia State Highway Commission, and
treasurer of Pulaski County, Virginia,
died at his home in Pulaski, October 8,

1954-
1909

REUBEN RAGLAND died August 5, 1954:
His home was in Jacksonville, Florida.

1911

J. Tom Watson died at a Tampa, Florida,
hospital on October 24, 1954, following
a heart attack suffered at his home. A
former State attorney-general, he was a
candidate for Governor of Florida in
the November 2 general election. A native
of Danville, Virginia, Mr. Watson had
practiced law for many years there before
moving to Florida. Interment was in the
family plot in Danville.

RICHARD CHANDLER OVERBEY died July 14,
1954. Mr. Overbey was president of a
South Boston, Virginia, Insurance Agency.

1915

James LAWRENCE Howerton died Septem-
ber 21, 1954. He was an official of Monsan-
to Chemical Company. Mr. Howerton was
the son of Dr. James R. Howerton, Pro-
fessor of Philosophy at Washington and
Lee from 1907 to 1924.

1919

James R. Fain died September 2, 1954. At
the time of his death he was president of
City National Bank, Winston-Salem, North
North Carolina.

1922

Joun Paut AckErty died November 1,
1954, in Richmond, Virginia, after a long
illness. At the time of his death he was
Virginia manager for the Sun Life As-
surance Company of Canada.

1924

WaLtEeR H. Scott, prominent Roanoke,
Virginia, attorney and former member of
the General Assembly of Virginia, died
about 9:40 p.m. October 11, 1954, as the
result of a fall from the third floor of
the building in which his office is located
at 192-A West Campbell Avenue. Ap-
parently Mr. Scott had gone to the un-
lighted storage room above his office to
get material from his files, using a flash-
light, when he fell through the window
to a concrete pavement in an alley-way
some 25 or 30 feet below.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

December
December
December
January
January
January
January
January
February
February
February
February
February
February
February
February
February
February
February
March

March 3-

December 14—Duke University

January
February
February
February
February
March

December 17—University of Virginia

January

February
February
February
February
February
February

Winter Sports Schedule
1954-1955

BASKETBALL

peel ee eee bia es Lexington, Virginia
Montgomery, Alabama
Fayetteville, West Virginia
Huntington, West Virginia
Salem, Virginia

Lexington, Virginia
Lexington, Virginia
Charlottesville, Virginia
Davidson, North Carolina
Charleston, West Virginia
Lexington, Virginia
Blacksburg, Virginia
Fayetteville, West Virginia
Fayetteville, West Virginia
Richmond, Virginia
Williamsburg, Virginia
Lexington, Virginia
Lexington, Virginia
Johnson City, Tennessee
Lexington, Virginia
Richmond, Virginia

14—Hampden-Sydney
17-18—Montgomery ‘Tournament
29-30—Fayetteville Tournament
1— Marshall
6—Roanoke
8— William and Mary
12—Virginia Polytechnic Institute
14—University of Virginia
4.— Davidson College
5—The Citadel
8—Roanoke College
10—Virginia Polytechnic Institute
12—University of West Virginia
15—George Washington University
17—University of Richmond
19—William and Mary
22—The Citadel
25—Davidson College
26—East Tennessee State
1—University of Virginia
4-5—Southern Conference Tournament

WRESTLING

ee e e e e e e@ ee e e@ ee ee @
eo e e e e e e ee e e e ee e ee @

eo © e© «© © e © e@ © © © © e@ e@© © @ © ee e ee e ee e @ © @ e e@ @
eo eee e« e ee e@ © @© © e ee © e© ee ee e © e e e@ © @ © @ ee e e @
ee © e ee e © © @ e@ ee ee e© e ee e ee ee ee e 8 @
eee e e e e ee e ee e© @ e@ @
ee e e © @ e e@ e © ee e ee e © ee e e ee @
e eee e e ee e © © © e@ ee e e e@ e© ee e e@ e@ e@ ©
eo e «© ee © @© ee © © © © © e © © e@ © e © © ee e@ e@ © e ee e @
eo e © «© © ee © @e © ee e e© © © © e© © © ee e e e@ 8 @
e ee ee e ee e@ ee ee &® @ ee @
e e ee e e ee e © e ee ee e@ e e e @
eo e © © e e e e e e ee e@ @
ee e ee ee e@ e e e @ e@© @ ee © © e e e *¢
ee e e e e© e e@ © © © @ e e e@ e@ * @ e@ @ 8 e@ @
e e© © e ee © © © ee © © @© e @© © @ © © © ee © ee e@ ee e ee ©
ee e e ee e e e e © © ee e ee ee ee e@ © © e@ e@ @ @¢
e@ e ee e e e e © ee e© @# @© ee e © @ e @ e# e© ¢&
eo e©« «© © © @ e© ee e ee e e ee e@ e# e@ ee e ee @

Lexington, Virginia

Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Lexington, Virginia
Morgantown, West Virginia
Davidson, North Carolina
Lexington, Virginia
Lexington, Virginia

8—North Carolina University
5—The Citadel
12—University of West Virginia
17—Davidson College
25—University of Virginia
4-5—Southern Conference

eee ee e© ee ee e© ee e@ @ © @ ee @
eee ee e e e e ee @ © e@ © © @ © ee ee @ e@ ee e@ @ e@ @ @¢
ee e e@© ee e © e@ ee e@ e @# e ee ©
eeeee eee eee e ee ee © ee ee © # @ e @ ¢
eee ee e e ee © ® © e e© e@ © e@ © e@ &© @

SWIMMING

Wee we ee ee ee Lexington, Virginia
Lynchburg, Virginia
Ashland, Virginia
Blacksburg, Virginia
Lexington, Virginia
Davidson, North Carolina
Blacksburg, Virginia (V.P.I.)

Lexington, Virginia (V.M.I.)

7—Lynchburg College

5—Randolph-Macon

9—Virginia Polytechnic Institute
12—William and Mary
18—Davidson College
19—Big Six
24,—Southern Conference

eo e e e ee ee e ee e@ ee © ee ee © © @ e@ e@ ee e@ ee @

e ee e e @e@ © e e © e@ e@ © e@ e@ © e @ © e e © © e@ © e@ © * e@ e@ ©

ee «© e e e@ e e@ © e@ ee e@ e e@ © e@ ee e e @ @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Mapie—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry.) A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

