WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

C. FP. Lieat
Named

aw Dean

Alumni Fund

eactivated

 

Fall 1050

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
Wedgwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $20.00 per set
(in Blue only
F.0.B., Lexington, Virginia

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AtyY
EE
son AND F
WASHING
of
eee Fall, 1959
eoocee® *e ;
ee
eooe? e Vol. XXXIV
eooce?® e
eee .
geo 000ee"” ° No. 5
eecee® &
e
: Published quarterly by Alumni, Incorporated
Washington and Lee University
@
CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS } Lexington, Virginia
Appalaehias.| don M. Jones, ’37, Hilltop House, ;
reeneville, Lennessee Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
Ps i pans ee
Ane evueporen Vincinia Stombock, Box 594, & at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924
Atlanta—Richard A. Denny, Jr., '52, 434 Trust 7
errs, 2 eorgia Building ; e Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
ee ee R. McDonald, °50, 1206 Lake . of Washington and Lee University
Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North 3rd e under the supervision of C. Harold Lauck
reet co
Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., 2
"34, United Carbon Building * ;
Chattanooga-_Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 2721 Foltz 7 Editor
rive
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, '28, Winnetka Trust e WILLIAM G. WASHBURN, 1940
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois ®
Charlotte—Charles L. Green, ’40, 1207 Commercial 2 Managing Editor
Bank Building - ins
Cineinnati—Jack L. Reiter, '41, 1020 Union Trust e ‘TINA C, JEFFREY
uilding
Cleveland—James D. Bonebrake, ’54, 19219 Mead- -
ow Lark Lane, Warrensville Heights 22, Ohio e
Cumberland Valley—Robert E. Clapp, 30, 117 e EDITORIAL BOARD
North Court Street, Frederick, Maryland *
Danville—Richard L. Heard, '44, P. O. Box 1306, e PAXTON DAVIS
Martinsville e
Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley, °34, 524 e FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
Florida Nat’] Bank Building, St. Petersburg ® CW
Houston—Ted Riggs, '38, 601 First City National < WHAM ©. ¥V ASHBURN; 1940
an ullding AMES W. WHITEHEAD
Jacksonville—A. Lee Powell, Jr., ’50, 34 Buckman ° ¥
Building .
Pe aE ee eee © THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, Kentucky e ;
Home Life Building » President
Lynchburg—Dr. G. Edward Calvert, ’44—Suite 9, e a , -
Medical Center, Tate Springs Road bd PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935
Mid-South—Harry Wellford, ’46, Commerce Title .
Building, Memphis, Tennessee e Vice-President
New York—E. Stewart Epley, ’49, McKinsey & Co., e
60 East 42nd Street, New York 17 e BEN W. DITTO, 1943
Mews Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke @
ervice s
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, ’13, A secrplaty
i . WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
e
@ Treasurer
CLARK B. WINTER, 1937

Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk, Virginia—Sam R. Ames, ’42, 603 Nation-
al Bank of Commerce Bldg., Norfolk 1, Va.
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Davis
Building, Dallas
"42, 4812

Northern Louisiana—C. Lane Sartor,
Camelia, Shreveport, Louisiana
Jr., °’42, 18 Earl

Peninsula—Beverley W. Lee,
reet, Hampton, Virginia
Jr.,

Street
Philadelphia—Sidney Ulfelder,
mead Drive, Erlton, New Jersey

d
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina

Jr., °41, 702

Pittsburgh—Anthony E, D’Emilio,
Frick Building

Richmond, Virginia—Reno S. Harp, III, 54, 4912
West Cary St., Richmond

Roanoke—William R. Holland, ’50, Liberty Trust
Building

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., ’43, 407-09

South Texas Building
St. Louis—Malcolm Holekamp, ’53, 344 Gray Ave.,

Webster Groves 19, Missouri
Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, ’31, 440-12th Avenue,
Huntington, West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 527
Washington Street, Cumberland, Maryland
Washington, D. C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,
1313 You Street, N.W.

°24, Brook-

“HE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

RopNEY M. Cook, 1946
Ben W. DITTO, 1943

Davip D. JOHNSON, 1921, ex officio
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942

AMES B. MARTIN, 1931

PAUL M. SHUFORD, 1943

PEYTON B. WINFREE, 10935, President

CLARK B. WINTER, 1937

THE Cover: Tucker Hall, home of Washington and

Lee’s Law School will have a new dean next year,

when PROFESSOR CHARLES P. LIGHT succeeds CLAYTON
E. WILLIAMS, dean since 1944.

Srom the © xecutive Secretary

 

Alumni Fund To Be Reactivated

on Limited Basis, 1959-60

N THE PAST YEAR, during the

Capital Gifts Campaign, many
alumni have inquired of the role of
the Alumni Fund in the over-all
picture of the University’s develop-
ment program. Some of you have
expressed a desire to make a contri-
bution to the Alumni Fund in addi-
tion to your gift to the building
program, with the hope that its
successful growth manifested over
the past years would continue.

Development Planners

In the fall of 1957, University
administration and the Board of
Trutstees envisioned a_ capital
campaign to encompass some twen-
ty areas with a concentration of
100 or more alumni, parents and
friends, in a campaign period to
last approximately one year. Dur-
ing the course of the active cam-
paign, the Alumni and Parents’
Funds would be merged with the
Development Campaign and neith-
er was to engage in its usual an-
nual fund drive activities. ‘To pre-
serve the identity of the annual
Funds, gifts to the Development
campaign would be credited to the
respecrive Funds.

It was found, however, that there
were forty-four areas, rather than
twenty—a fact in which every alum-
nus should take pride. It became
evident that the time necessary for
adequate planning and coverage of
these additional areas would extend
the campaign period beyond one
year, and that the Alumni and Par-
ents Fund could not resume their

2

former role on a full scale until all
the area campaigns had been com-
pleted.

The net balance of the Alumni
Fund for operational expenses is
transferred to the University, which
depends on this sum for its annual
budget. Consequently, the Capital
Gifts campaign must allocate to
the University in behalf of the
Alumni Fund, a sum representing
the operational cost of the Alumni
Association plus the University’s
anticipated budgeted income from
alumni. As the campaign period of
merged operations extends, this
“drain” on the University Devel-
opment Program becomes obvious.

Alumni Fund Council

The Alumni Fund Council met
on November 6 and agreed to a
plan to reactivate the Alumni Fund
for the year 1959-1960, with the un-
derstanding that it be conducted in
such a manner as not to conflict
with the University Development
Program.

The Future Plan

To resume the Alumni Fund on
a limited basis for the fiscal year,
1959-60, the council recommended:

(a) that the class agent plan be
activated in January, 1960.

(b) that only those alumni de-
scribed below shall be solicited.

(c) that the regional agent plan
shall not be employed.

(d) that there shall be no estab-

lished contributor or dollar goals.

(e) that no alumnus donor to the
Development campaign shall be so-
licited for the Alumni Fund until
his pledge has been paid in full, nor
in the same academic year of his
gift, even though his pledge was
paid in full.

Those to be solicited shall be:

A. Those alumni who have had
the opportunity, either by personal
contact from the Development Pro-
gram’s organized campaigns or by
their mail campaign, to contribute
or pledge to the University Devel-
opment Program and who did not—

and/or

B. Those alumni who have al-
ready made a _ contribution § or
pledge to the University Develop-
ment Program and whose pledge
or contribution has been paid in
full prior to September 1, 1959.

Soon many of you will be receiv-
ing letters from your class agent.
There is no intent on his part to
do other than present the oppor-
tunity for all of us to lend assistance
to Washington and Lee as our
hearts and consciences might dic-
tate.

As evidenced by a large num-
ber of alumni contacted personal-
ly—the reactivation of the Alumni
Fund on a limited scale during
1959-60 should be the beginning of
an even greater era in its vital role
with the University. Therefore, I
earnestly solicit your full considera-
tion.

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Successor to Dean Williams

 

Charles P. Light Is Named New
Dean ot Law School

ROFESSOR CHARLES PORTERFIELD

Light, Jr., a member of the
Washington and Lee Law School
faculty for thirty-three years, will
become dean of the law school next
year.

Clayton Epes Williams,
since 1944, has announced that he
will retire at the end of the current
school year, when he will reach the
age of seventy.

Mr. Light’s appointment was
made by the University board of
trustees at the October meeting.

A native of Martinsburg, West
Virginia, Professor Light was grad-
uated from Virginia Military Insti-
tute in 1923 as third highest man in
his class. He received his law de-
gree from Harvard Law School. He
also received a master’s degree in
political science in 1928 from
V.M.I., and has done summer work
at Columbia Law School.

He joined the Washington and
Lee law faculty in 1926 as an asso-
clate professor of law, and_ since
1937, he has been professor of law
on the Thomas Ball Foundation.

He has been a frequent contribu-
tor to law reviews and other publi-
cations, in his field of constitutional
law and torts. He was first faculty
editor of the Washington and Lee
Law Review, Volume One, in 1939-
40. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa and Order of the Coif.

Mr. Light is a Colonel in the
Judge Advocate General’s corps,
U.S. Army Reserve, and has been
active as a JAG instructor in sum-
mer camps. He was on active duty
from August, 1940, until January,

dean

FALL 1959

1946, first as staff judge advocate at
the Bermuda Base Command, then
with the War Department General
Staff in the Operations Division,
at Washington, D.C. He received
two awards for his service, the
Army Commendation Ribbon and
the Legion of Merit.

He is presently a member of the
Special Committee on Military Jus-

 

CoLoNnEL Licut, JAG Corps

 

tice, of American Bar Association.

Dean-designate Light is Universi-
ty Marshal, and has chairmanned
the faculty committee on _ public
functions for the past ten years. He
is a vestryman at R. E. Lee Memo-
rial Episcopal church. He and his
wife, a native of Toronto, Canada,
are the parents of two daughters,
Harlan, 16, a freshman at St.
Mary’s Junior College, and Pearcy,
14, a freshman at Lexington High
School.

Dean Williams received his law
degree at Washington and Lee in
1912, and was president of his
senior class. He practiced law at
Woodstock, Virginia for seven
years, and then joined the law fac-
ulty in 1919 as associate professor.
A year later, he became full profes-
sor. In 1944, following the death of
Dean W. H. Moreland, he was ap-
pointed acting dean, then dean in
1946. He has also held the title of
Bradford Professor of Law since
1947:

He has served in an advisory
Capacity to various Virginia legis-
lative committees studying the ad-
ministration of justice and qualifi-
cations for the bar. He was editor
with Martin P. Burks, III, ’32, of
the third edition of “Burks on
Pleading and Practice.”

He received a doctor of laws de-
gree in 1951 from Hampden-Sydney
College. His honorary societies in-
clude Omicron Delta Kappa and
Order of the Coif. Students here
presented a portrait of Dean Wil-
liams to the law school last spring,
during the Tucker Lectures.

 

 

 

 

For the third consecutive year, Delta Tau Delta won the prize for the best Home-
coming display. Their theme was “Knock the Wind Out of Their Pipes,” featuring a de-
flated set of bagpipes, representing Carnegie Tech, the Tartans. Three prizes were pre-
sented by the Alumni Association. Runners-up to the Delis were Kappa Sigma and PEPs.

University News

 

m WASHINGTON AND LEE again this
year has brought a well-rounded
group of outside speakers to the
campus, in departmental and club
efforts to obtain information and

knowledge in specified areas of
learning.

Always varied, always interesting,
the speakers came from this coun-
try and abroad, to share their wis-
dom with the students.

In one week in November, the
schedule ran like this: the history
department presented Dr. Fred
Harvey Harrington, professor of
history and academic-vice president
of the University of Wisconsin, who
spoke on, “The Foreign Policy of
Franklin D. Roosevelt; Right or
Wrong?”

A.

The Virginia Academy of Science
and the University Center in Vir-
ginia presented Dr. Harry Sisler,
head of the University of Florida’s
chemistry department on, “A Con-
ducted Tour of the Periodic Sys-
tem of the Elements” and “Recent
Developments in High Energy
Fuels.”

The ninth annual Seminars in
Literature was opened with Steph-
en Spender, British poet and
critic, who spoke on “The ‘Tyranny
of the Decade’s End.”

The department of journalism
and Sigma Delta Chi presented Al-
lan Barth, author of “The Loyalty
of Free Men,” and editorial writer
for the Washington Post, on “Pol-
itics and the Bill of Rights.”

Pi Sigma Alpha and the Eng-
lish Speaking Union presented
Vice-Admiral W. J. W. Woods,
C.B., Deputy Supreme Allied Com-

 

mander of Atlantic NATO, on
“NATO and the Allied Command
Atlantic.”

 

BH PRESIDENT F. C. COLE has been
named a trustee of the College En-
trance Examination Board for a
two-year period, 1959-1961. He is
the only Southern educator cur-
rently serving.

The CEEB, with headquarters
in New York City, devises and con-
ducts admission test programs for
member institutions throughout
the United States. It also engages
in various other educational pro-
jects, including an “advanced place-
ment” program for outstanding
high school students who may be
given college credit for advanced
courses taken on a secondary school
level.

g@ THE PREMIERE performance of a
composition, “Molab,” by Robert
Stewart, assistant professor of fine
arts, was presented on October 18,
1959, by the Roanoke Symphony.
It was the first concert of the season
for the Roanoke group. Mr. Stewart
who was concertmaster of the or-
chestra, based his work, a dramatic
overture, on an Irish myth of the
ninth century.

A number of Lexington residents
attended the concert, which was
held in the American Theatre.

BH DR. GEORGE HARDING FOSTER, ‘34,
head of the department of compara-
tive literature, died on ‘Thanksgiv-
ing Day, November 26, 1959, at his
home in Lexington. He suffered a
heart attack.

A native of New York, he re-
ceived his bachelor’s and master’s
degree from Washington and Lee,
and his doctorate at the University
of North Carolina in 1941. He serv-
ed with the Navy during World
War II as a lieutenant commander,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dr. Greorce H. Foster, ’34

and, as a member of the Naval Re-
serve since that time, he has au-
thored more than twenty pamphlets
for the Navy.

He joined the Washington and
Lee faculty upon receiving his
graduate degree and taught briefly
at Louisiana State University before
entering the Navy. He rejoined the
faculty here in 1947 as an assistant
professor of English, and was pro-
moted to associate professor in 1950
and full professor in 1956. Last
year he was named head of the de-
partment of comparative literature.

He was on leave of absence in
1952, to work one year in Holly-
wood for Walt Disney Studios as a
writer.

At Washington and Lee, he serv-
ed as chairman of the faculty alum-
ni committee, and as a member of
the University advisory board and
committee on intercollegiate ath-
letics.

He is survived by two sons, a
daughter, and his widow.

 

eB Dr. WALTER LAPSLEY CarSON, ’15,
one of Virginia’s outstanding Pres-
byterian clergymen, died on Oc-

FALL 1959

 

tober 24, 1959. He was pastor of
the First Presbyterian church of
Richmond for thirty-seven years.

He had been a member of the
Washington and Lee’s board of
trustees since 1926, and was second
in seniority to rector James R.
Caskie.

Both the son and grandson of
ministers, Dr. Carson served as a
flyer during World War I. He
earned his bachelor of divinity de-
gree at Union Theological Semin-
nary. In 1924, Hampden-Sydney
conferred a doctor of divinity de-
gree upon him. He served as assist-
ant pastor and co-pastor of Second
Presbyterian church in Richmond.
In 1922, he was called to become
pastor of the First Presbyterian
church there.

He was married to the former
Miss Marie Gresham McRae, and
they have one son, Walter Lapsley
Carson, Jr., “45, of Mount Olive,
North Carolina. His brother, the
Rev:-H. ¥V. Carson: 13, of Mont-
gomery, Alabama, also survives.

Dr. Carson was laid to rest in
Hollywood cemetery, Richmond,
on October 26. Representing Wash-
ington and Lee at the funeral serv-
ice were Chancellor Francis P.
Gaines and President Fred C. Cole.

FOR THE FIRST time in its history,
Washington and Lee University has
a woman trustee. Appointed to the
board on October 17 was Mrs. Al-
fred I. duPont of Wilmington,
Delaware, longtime benefactor of
the University.

In another appointment, the
board named John Franklin Hen-
don, ’24, of Birmingham, Alabama,
a former president of the Alumni
Board of ‘Trustees.

Total number of trustees is now
fourteen. Virginia Senator Harry
F. Byrd, a member of the board
since 1951, submitted his resigna-
tion at the October meeting. Full
strength of the board is fifteen. If
the trustees decide to fill the va-
cency, it may be done at the next
meeting in January.

 

Dr. WALTER L. Carson, ’15

Mrs. duPont, the former Jessie
Dew Ball of Northumberland
county, Virginia, is the widow of
the former president of the E. I.
duPont de Nemours Company,
Incorporated. She is president of
the Nemours Foundation, a charit-
able organization for crippled chil-
dren; a member of the board of
directors of the Alfred I. duPont
Foundation; a director of the Rob-
ert E. Lee Memorial Foundation,
Incorporated; and of the board of
the St. Joe Paper Company.

Her gifts to Washington and
Lee have been many and varied.
She has established the Alfred I.
duPont journalism awards, three
professorship funds, two  scholar-
ship funds, as well as other en-
dowments. duPont Hall, Washing-
ton and Lee’s home of fine arts, is
named for her.

She is also a member of the
board of trustees of Hollins Col-
lege, and an honorary member of
the Virginia Foundation for Inde-
pendent Colleges. Mrs. duPont
holds honorary degrees from eleven
colleges, including a doctor of hu-
manities degree from Washington
and Lee in 1947.

Mr. Hendon operates parking
and investment businesses in eigh-
teen cities in the states of Alabama,

5

 

Trustee JESSIE DU PONT

Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, ‘Ten-
nessee, and Missisippi. He is on
the boards of the Birmingham
Trust National Bank, the Birming-
ham Realty Company, and is presi-
dent of the board of the Jefferson
County ‘Tuberculosis Sanitarium
Society. He is vice-president of As-
sociated Industries of Alabama; and
is past president and _ presently
board member of the National
Parking Association.

He opened his first service sta-
tion and parking lot in Birming-
ham in 1927. The value of his lots
and facilities now amounts to al-
most fourteen million dollars.

His business career began when
he successfully retailed oranges in
Florida at the age of eleven. In
Lexington, he financed his tuition
at Washington and Lee by running
a pressing shop.

§ FORMER PRESIDENT Francis P.
Gaines has a new title. He has been
named to the newly created posi-
tion of chancellor of the University,
in action by the board of trustees
in mid-October.

Although the board did not spell

out in detail the chancellor’s duties,
it has been brought out that Dr.
Gaines will be called on from time

6

 

Trustee JOHN HENDON, ’24

to time to assist the trustees and the
president of Washington and Lee
in duties “which are agreeable to
him.”

“The board is delighted to have
Dr. Gaines retained in an official
capacity with Washington and
Lee,” said James R. Caskie, ‘06, rec-
tor. ‘“We are pleased that he will
continue to play a part in our
work.”’

Dr. Gaines, who retired on Sep-
tember 1, has nevertheless been
busy ever since in the University
campaign for $2,000,000 for new
facilities in science and journal-
ism. He has spoken at alumni ban-
quets in 12 cities.

“I appreciate deeply the recog-
nition of the board in naming me
to this new opportunity for serv-
ice,’ chancellor Gaines declared. “‘I
expect to continue to serve Wash-

ington and Lee in every way I can.”

The trustees, in a gesture of per-
sonal appreciation to Dr. Gaines
for his twenty-nine years of serv-
ice as president, presented him with
a handsome silver service.

= THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES has au-
thorized a five-man committee to
recommend a date and draw up
other plans for the inauguration of

Dr. Fred C. Cole as the University’s
fourteenth president.

Appointed to the committee by
rector James R. Caskie were Homer
A. Helt of Charleston, WwW. Va.,
James M. Hutcheson of Richmond,
and Kennon C. Whittle of Martins-
ville, representing the board, and
Prof: Charles 7. Lagat, {r., and
President Cole, representing the
university faculty and staff.

The board is expected to affirm
the date of the inauguration at its
regular January meeting. The in-
auguration tentatively is scheduled
for May.

 

# A TRADITION AT Washington and
Lee since 1908, the Mock Conven-
tion, will be held May 1-2, by stu-
dents, in order to ‘choose’ Demo-
cratic candidates for the 1960 pres-
idential elections.

Charles L. McCormick, III, chair-
man, has named a six-man com-
mittee to assist in arrangements.
All but one of the six were partici-
pants in the 1956 Democratic Mock
convention. Mostly law students,
the members are: T. B. Bryant, III,
assistant chairman; ‘Thomas  B.
Branch, III, state delegations; War-
ren H. Goodwyn, parade; Peyton
B. Winfree, III, Virginia affairs;
Jon B. McLin, publicity; Frank
William Ling, secretary.

 

& WITH THIRTY-ONE OF the 44 cam-
paign areas completed or in the
“active solicitation” stage, the Uni-
versity Development program for
journalism and the laboratory sci-
ences has reach the $1,500,000 mark
toward a goal of $2,000,000. ‘This
major project will include the con-
struction and equipping of one en-
tirely new science building, the re-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

modeling and addition to Howe
Hall, and the renovation or re-
building of Reid Hall.

To date 4,657 alumni, parents,
and friends of Washington and Lee
have been contacted on behalf of
the building program. Seven out of
ten persons who have been person-
ally contacted have made contribu-
tions. Over 3,000 gifts have been
received thus far.

Campaigns are now being con-
ducted in Cincinnati, Cleveland,
Northern New Jersey and New
York City. The thirteen areas to
be canvassed after the first of the
year are Pittsburgh, Newport News,
St. Louis, Chicago, Westchester-
Connecticut, Long Island, Hunt-
ington, W. Va., Miami, Orlando,
Boston, Little Rock, Los Angeles,
and San Francisco.

Through the drives now under
way and the thirteen remaining
campaigns, an additional 2600
members of the Washington and
Lee family will be asked to partici-
pate,

 

= ABOUT EIGHT HUNDRED fathers,
mothers, and guardians of students
were on campus October 30-No-
vember 1, for the fifth annual Par-
ents’ Weekend. .

 

FALL 1959

Among the eight hundred parents visiting the campus for the Parents’ Weeken

On the agenda were conferences
with professors, faculty discussion
panels, a “Report to Parents’ by
University president Fred D. Cole,
Deans Leon F. Sensabaugh and
Frank J. Gilliam, Development
Director James W. Whitehead, and
student body president J. Frank
Surface. Also scheduled were a buf-
fet luncheon in the new Evans
dining hall, guided campus tours,
and a Glee Club concert.

‘The weekend is sponsored by the
University and the Parents’ Advis-
ory Council, a__ fifty-six-member
body. Chairman is Waldo E. Knick-
arbocker of Houston, Texas.

 

& WHEN DR. EDGAR FINLEY SHANNON,
Jv., °39, Was inaugurated as the
fourth president of the University
of Virginia on October 6, 1959, a
number of Washington and Lee
alumni and faculty were on hand.
Among those present were: Dr.
William A. Jenks, ’39, representing
Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kap-
pa; Dr. William Hinton, ’g9, rep-
resenting the Virginia Academy of
Sciences; Dr. William W. Pusey,
representing the American Coun-
cil of Learned Societies; and Dr.
Marvin B. Perry, head of the Eng-
lish department. Dr. Fred C. Cole,
president of Washington and Lee,

 

was the official representative of the
University.

 

@ DATES FOR THE annual Tucker

Law Lectures have been set, ac-
cording to Dean Clayton E. Wil-
liams. The Lectures will be held
April 15 and 16, and Ross L. Ma-
lone, ‘32, former president of the
American Bar Association, will de-
liver them.

A reunion of law school alumni
will also be held on April 16.

Further plans will be announced
in the next issue of this magazine.

# WASHINGTON AND LEE’S Moot
Court team won its first round
against University of Richmond in
regional finals of the National
Moot Court Competition, Novem-
ber 20, but went down to defeat in
semi-finals against winner Duke
University.

Arguments were held in Rich-
mond this year, with the University
of Richmond as host.

Duke defeated the University of
South Carolina lawyers, and both
teams will go to New York in De-
cember for the national finals.

On the local team were J. L.
Lyle, Jr., chairman; Nicholas W.
Bath, George Fralin and Henry C.
Morgan, Jr.

d in October were these alumni fathers and mothers.

7

Homecoming

JUIUUUUUUUOUNUUUUUUOUOURUGUUULEIOUUUUOLEULUUOLGOULUUAUAME EAI

PEUUTTNNNUUUITTTYQQUUUINTNNNUUUUUEHT

, \

Washington and Lee,
1959

Checking the Register to see who’s on hand for Homecoming are EMMETT POINDEXTER,
20, JOHN H. BosMAN, ’37, with Bos SMITH, ’51, in the rear. Right: GENEVA FITZENHAGEN,
a beauteous blond, was elected Homecoming Queen and was crowned at halftime.
Sponsored by the Betas, she is the wife of senior ALEX R. FITZENHAGEN, Dallas, Texas.

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Among events scheduled for alumni and
wives at Homecoming were, above: a cof-
fee hour at Evans hall. Upper right, this
was the receiving line at the reception held
after the football game in honor of Dr.
and Mrs. Frep C. Corr. Left to right, W.
C. WASHBURN, 740, alumni secretary, Dr.
and Mrs. Coir, and PEYTON C. WINFREF,
‘95, president of the Alumni Association,
and Mrs. WINFREE. Right, center, in line
at the Evans hall for a buffet lunch were:
the Rev. Lewis GiBBs, ‘07, JAMES R. CASKIE,
‘o6, B. T. Smrru, ’08, JAmMes NOELL, ‘11,
Cc. C. Moore, 713, Kt WILLIAMS, 715, MRs.
L. C. GREENEBAUM, and CURLY GREENE-
BAUM, ‘59. Right, lower picture, enjoying
roast beef and apple pie were PAUL WEIN-
STEIN, °55, GIL Bocerti, °54, Miss ANN
Boccs, Mrs. Bocerti, G. N. STIEFF, ‘52,
and J. A. DRABEK, 53. Below, MRs. JAMES
TURK, JAMES ‘TURK, ‘52, Virginia State
senator-elect, eat with Nick SIMONS, ‘55.

x

 

FALL 1959

 

 

& FOR WASHINGTON AND LEE’S foot-
ball team and its star passer, Jack
Groner, it was a near-miss season.

The Generals came close to a
winning year for the first time since
1951, and Groner failed by just 23
yards in a bid to shatter the school’s
season passing record of 1,000
yards, set by Mike Boyda in 1948.

Never out-classed and always a
threat until the final gun, Coach
Lee McLaughlin’s sophomore-dom-
inated squad compiled a record of
three wins, four losses, and a tie.
Two of the defeats were by margins
of less than a touchdown.

With 34 of 39 varsity players
scheduled to return in 1960, the old
familiar cry of “Wait ’till next
year!” has a ring of real promise
for Washington and Lee. Even
skeptics are admitting that Coach
McLaughlin has finally started the
Generals on an up-hill climb out
of the gridiron doldrums.

Here’s a game-by-game summary:

W & L 45, Centre 8—The Gener-
als didn’t make a serious mistake
all afternoon, as junior halfback
Bobby Funkhouser scored three
times and sophomore quarterback
Steve Suttle directed the offense to
five of its six touchdowns.

W & L 4e, Dickinson 14—Gron-
er’s passing and some top-flight run-
ning by Suttle and sophomore half-
back Jim Hickey proved too much
Dickinson.

W & L 14, Franklin and Mar-
shall 28—Generals moved the ball
well in midfield, but found the go-
ing rough inside the Diplomats’ 20.

W & L 33, Randolph-Macon 33—
In one of the most exciting games
ever played on Wilson Field, the
Generals spotted the Yellowjackets
a 21-0 lead, roared back to take a
25-24 lead, lost it again, and finally
tied it up with a last-minute touch-
down and a two-point conversion.

W & L o, Hampden-Sydney 12--
shin-deep mud at _ Petersburg
grounded the Generals’ passing at-

10

tack, and a fumble and a bad center
pass with the slippery ball halted
two promising drives toward the
Tiger goal. H-SC proved the better
mudder.

W & L 16, Carnegie Tech 20—
Seeking their seventh straight win
of the season, the Tartans got two
touchdowns in the first five minutes
and added another on an official’s
disputed ruling in the last quarter.
Homecoming alumni were disap-
pointed.

W & L 14, Sewanee 15—After
stopping the Tigers cold on two
courageous goal-line stands, the
Generals fumbled the last time for
the clinching Sewanee TD late in
the game. Both Tiger touchdowns
resulted from W & L miscues.

W & L 35, Washington 26—Scor-
ing 21 points in the final quarter,
the Generals roared from a 26-14
deficit to win their first game on
the road since 1953.

Groner, senior quarterback from
Metairie, Louisiana had a _ final
mark of 978 yards on 52 comple-
tions in 105 attempts. And _al-
though Groner’s last season was his
greatest, his passing wasn’t the
whole offensive show for Wash-
ington and Lee. This year, he
shared the quarterbacking with the
hard-running Suttle, who wound
up as the team’s top rusher. Sut-

 

tle’s 263 yards for a 3-9 average
was a shade better than Funk-
houser’s 258 yards, although Funk-
houser had a 4.2 average per car-
ry. And Hickey averaged 4.6 yards
in gaining 208. Funkhouser’s 64
points were tops in team scoring,
followed by Hickey’s 4o.

For the measure of success en-
joyed this season and for his hopes
for the future, the Generals’ coach
gives full credit to the boys them-
selves. “We now have boys who
want to play football and want to
play it well,” he points out. “We've
got some excellent football players
on our squad, and we've got good
boys who make up what they lack
in talent and skill with determina-
tion and effort. They are a real in-
spiration to work with.”

With two apparently successful
years of “recruiting” without ath-
letic scholarships, McLaughlin be-
believes he can continue to find
good boys who will want to com-
bine football and a good education
at Washington and Lee. “I want us
to have the best non-subsidized
football team in the United States,”
he states boldly, “and I think we’ve
made the first steps in the right di-
rection.”

“We feel that the program is
working... that the student body
and alumni have accepted the fact
that we are going to stay in this
program and are cooperating,’ Mc-
Laughlin adds. “It takes work and
effort from the whole University
family to put it over, and we be-
lieve that we’re getting good co-
operation from everyone now.”

In soccer, Coach Joe Lyles’ team
turned in a 6-9-1 regular season
record, and then was runner-up in
the first annual state intercollegiate
soccer tournament, held at Wash-
ington and Lee. In the tourney, the
Generals won three and lost two
over the grueling two-day span of
the meet. Four W & L players—
Charlie Stow, Skip Rohnke, Frank
Smith, and Bob  Lathrop—were
named to the all-tournament team.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Some of the principals at the Richmond chapter meeting on October 22 are shown above: seated, Mrs. EARL HARGROVE, Mrs. PEYTON
WInrrEE, Mrs. FreD C. CoLe, Mrs. CHRIS COMPTON, and Mrs. EDWARD McCarty. Standing, EARL L. HARGROVE, JR., 54, chapter presi-
dent; Peyton B. WINEREE, ’35; president of the Alumni Association; Dr. Frep C. Coie, president of Washington and Lee; A. CHRISTIAN
ComPTON, ’50, vice-president of the chapter; RENO S. Harp, III, °54, secretary of the chapter; and Eowarp J. McCarty, "42, treasurer.

Alumni Chapter News

RICHMOND

The Richmond chapter was
pleased to have as its speaker, Oc-
tober 22, Dr. Fred C. Cole, presi-
dent of the University. The meet-
ing, attended by a large group of
alumni and their wives, was held at
the Hotel Richmond, and was
graced by the presence of Mrs. Fred
Cole, the president’s wife.

In his address, Dr. Cole empha-
sized his firmness in the basic tra-
ditions and ideals of Washington
and Lee and his desire to strength-

FALL 1959

en and assure their continuance.

A social hour preceded the ban-
quet at which Earl Hargrove, Jr.,
54, president of the chapter, pre-
sided. Among the guests were two
members of the University’s Board
of Trustees, Dr. John Newton
Thomas, and the late Dr. Walter
Lapsley Carson. Alumni Secretary,
Bill Washburn, ’40, and his wife,
Elizabeth, accompanied the Coles
on their visit to the Richmond
chapter.

A short business session outlined
the chapter’s future plans for the

year and its promotion of the
Washington and Lee-Hampden
Sydney football game which was
held in Petersburg on October 31.

NORTHERN LOUISIANA

At a meeting of the Northern
Louisiana chapter on October 1,
1959, held in conjunction with the
University Development dinner at
the Shreveport Country Club, the
following new officers were elected:
president, C. Lane Sartor, °42; vice-
president, J. Luther Jordan, Jr.,

11

"42; secretary-treasurer, Robert U.
Goodman, ’50.

Dick Eglin passed the gavel to
Lane Sartor and commented that,
evidenced by the splendid attend-
ance at the meeting, the enthusiasm
of the alumni in that area would
support Lane’s presidency to a new
record for the chapter. At this meet-
ing the chapter presented the retir-
ing president, Dr. Gaines, with a
lovely silver bowl as a token of
their appreciation to him.

ROANOKE

The Roanoke chapter held a
meeting November 4 at the Shen-
andoah Club at which the prin-
cipal address was made by Dr. Fred
Cole, the new president of Wash-
ington and Lee University. A. so-
cial hour preceded the stag dinner,
at which Robert Spessard, ’39, pres-
ident of the chapter, presided.

Upon the introduction by Jack
Coulter, ’49, Dr. Cole assured the
alumni of his firmness in the tra-
ditions and ideals of the college
and told those present, that with
their help, Washington and Lee
would continue its high rank in
the education field.

During the short business  ses-
sion the following Board of Direc-
tors was elected: Robert W. Kime,
51; Henry Thomas Martin, dt 44;
Barton W. Morris, Jr., ’43; John
K. Boardman, Jr., ’51; Robert S.
Goldsmith, Jr., 53.

 

/ Z TRIAL JUSTICE JOHN F. CHATFIELD
reached the constitutional retirement age
of seventy in September and stepped
down from the bench in Easton, Connec-
ticut. He had been trial justice for twen-
ty years. He has served as chairman of
the Board of Education at Easton for the
past eleven years, and was a member of
the Zoning Board of Appeals. He is a past
president of the Square and Compass
Club, a member of the Kiwanis Club of
Bridgeport, and past master. of the
Washington Lodge, AF and AM. He is
the father of two daughters and a son,
and the grandfather of eight. The chief
judge of the Assembly of ‘Trial Justices de-
clared, as Judge Chatfield retired, “He
exemplifies the highest type of person in
our judicial system...I think he is one
man who knew best how to temper mer-
cy with justice.”

/ 3 PAUL C. BUFORD was honored on
November 2, 1959, with a luncheon by
the employees of the home office of Shen-

SSPSOPSPSSHSSFOVSSDSHSOHOSSSOOHOHOHSSOHHOHHFOHHHOHOHOSHHCOOSSEOEE

CALENDAR OF EVENTS

January 4

January 18-28
January 19
January 29-30
March 26-April 3
April 15, 16

May 1, 2

Classes Resume After Holidays

Examinations

Lee’s Birthday-Founders Day Convocation

Fancy Dress Ball
Spring Holidays
‘Tucker Law Lectures

Mock Convention

12

andoah Life Insurance Company. It mark-
ed twenty years of service by Mr. Buford
to the company, and he was presented a
silver tray in appreciation. Mr. Buford is
president of the company, which has its
office in Roanoke, Virginia.

] G Junius L. POWELL has retired from
Chubb and Son. A member of the firm
since 1925, he is senior vice-president and
a director of Federal Insurance Company,
and Compania de Seguros Federal de
Cuba, a director of Vigilant Insurance
Company, and a trustee of the Chubb
Foundation.

2i FRANK SOMERS is a district governor
of Rotary International and will visit each
of the clubs in his district during this
year and next. He has been a member of
the New Orleans Rotary Club since 1947,
and was president in 1958-59. Frank is
general manager of Borden’s Milk and
Ice Cream plant in New Orleans. He is a
director and past president of the Better
Business Bureau in New Orleans, and has
been a director of the Louisiana Dairy
Products Association. He is a director of
the southern division of the Borden Com-

pany.

23 ANDREW HOWELL Harriss has been
with the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
company since June, 1921. He and _ his
wife are planning to move to Jacksonville,
Florida, next June. He served as a colonel
in World War II overseas, and was brevet-
ted a Brigidier General in the North Caro-
lina National Guard after more than forty
years of service. He has been commodore
of the Carolina Yacht Club and president
of the Thalian Association in Wilmington,
North Carolina. He is also past master of
the St. Johns Lodge AF and AM.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

RICHARD JORDAN, general manayer of the
Better Business Bureau in’ Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, heads an organization of four-
teen full time and four part-time em-
ployees. The Milwaukee bureau has 1,347
business firms in the city and = coun-
ty which are members, and an operating
budget of over $100,000. Dick was a bank
teller for four years, 1923-27, before going
with the BBB concern in Detroit. In 1939,
he was asked to establish and head the
Milwaukee bureau, and has been there
ever since. He and his wife live at 1455
E. Goodrich Lane, Fox Point, and they
have two married sons, plus four grand-
children.

26 C. EDWARD PFAU, JR., is special ag-

ent for Northwestern Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company.

2/ RassBt Davip H. WiceE has’ been

named a member of the national board
of directors of the Family Service Asso-
ciation of America, a federation of almost
three hundred casework counseling agen-
cies in two hundred and fifty cities. He
is a member of the board of directors of
the Family Service of Philadelphia as well,
and is founding president of the Jewish
Comunity Chaplaincy Service, and chair-
man of the committee on structure and
organization of the Central Conference
of American Rabbis.

GrorGE E. Burks has been a member of
the Louisville and Jefferson County Board
of Zoning Adjustments and Appeals in
Kentucky. He is serving his second year
as Chairman.

LE JoHN MAHER of Houston, Texas,

retired two years ago from an active busi-
ness career, but was bored, and came out

of retirement last year. Today he is one

of the city’s busiest executives. He _ is
president of the Reed Roller Bit Com-
pany and is in the middle of rebuilding
the sales organization and modernizing
machinery. He has also traveled over three
continents to visit company investments
in Holland and other parts of Europe,
and in Canada and South America. His
company is spending twenty-five million
dollars in its broad expansion program,
eighty percent of which goes for plant
development. He was formerly head of the
Oil Center ‘Tool Company in Houston, but
sold his controlling interest in that firm
in 1956. On the side, he raises beef cat-
tle on a 6,000 acre Texas ranch and owns
a dairy farm near East Pittsford, Vermont.

3 / Evuiotr JAMES MACKLE, and _ his
brother, ROBERT FRANCIS MACKLE, ’33,
along with a third brother, Frank, head
the General Development Corporation,
one of the nation’s largest land develop-

FALL 1959

ment and home building companies. With
home offices in Miami, Florida, the com-
pany purchases land for development,
plans homesites, water and sewage plants,
parks, industrial areas, churches, schools
and playgrounds, shopping centers and
then builds new cities. Right now, the
Mackles are working on Port Charlotte,
Florida, a planned community south of
Sarasota, which they expect to become
Florida’s fourth largest city. They point
out that 72,000 lots have already been sold
there, and an ultimate population of
750,000 persons is planned. Many of the
lots have been sold by mail-order, on
a ten-dollar-down, ten-dollar-per-month
plan to persons all over the United States,
making available Florida homesites for
persons not formerly able to afford them.
The Mackle Company, one of Florida's
oldest and largest home building and de-
velopment firms, was founded in 1908 at
Jacksonville by the Mackle brothers’
father. The firm got into heavy construc-
tion work with an $18,000,000 Naval base
project at Key West before World War II,
and then in 1940’s turned to large-scale
residential development. It merged with
Florida-Canada Company in the 1950's,
to enlarge its operation. The General De-
velopment Corporation also has seven
other development in Florida under way.

33 JAcK WILDER is general manager of
the Hotel Syracuse in Syracuse, New York.
He was formerly manager of the Biltmore
Hotel in New York City. In Syracuse, he
is overseeing the construction of the Ho-
tel Syracuse Country

House, a motor

 

ALLEN M. HARRELSON, °35, has been elect-
ed treasurer and chief financial officer of
the Crane Company, manufacturers of
valves, fittings, plumbing and_ heating
equipment. Allen was formerly financial
vice-president of H. K. Porter Company in
Pittsburgh. He is now residing in Chicago.

 

Lr. COLONEL A. D. BocGs, ’39, is presently
attending the Army War College at Car-
lisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. The course is
scheduled to be completed in June. He

has been with the Army since 1941.

lodge at the Penn-Can Highway. He has
been with the Statler hotel chain for thir-
teen years, and has been associated with
hotels in Washington, Boston, St. Louis,
and New York.

3 q RicHARD F. FAULKNER has’ been

promoted to sales manager for radio sta-
tion WMAQ in Chicago. He was formerly
an account executive in the Chicago of-
fice of NBC Radio Network Sales. He be-
gan his broadcasting career at station
KDKA in Pittsburgh in 1934 and later
worked for radio stations WIS, Columbia,
South Carolina; WSCS, Charleston, South
Carolina; and WAPI, Birmingham, Ala-
bama. He went to Chicago in 1939 to
join the staff of WBBM, where he was
a radio director, production manager and
night supervisor. During World War II,
he served as a public relations officer of
the U. S. Maritime Service.

RuGe P. DEVAN, Jr., president of the
Charleston, West Virginia, alumni chap-
ter, represented Washington and Lee at
the State House on September 13, 1959,
when a bust of General Stonewall Jackson
was unveiled. Major General W. H. Mil-
ton, Jr., superintendent of Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, was the speaker.

35 E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., chair-

man of the Upper Makefield ‘Township
Planning Commission, was appointed last
September by the County commissioners to
a five-year term as member of the Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, Park Board. Mar-
shall is vice-president and assistant to the

13

 

president of the Campbell Soup Company
in Camden, New Jersey.

36 Forrest E. HUFFMAN is. assistant

vice-president of the New York Life In-
surance Company, in charge of group sales
operations in Western United States, Can-
ada, Alaska, and Hawaii. He is married
and has a son and a daughter. His home
address is 42 St. Nicholas Road, Darien,
Connecticut.

39 Dr. JAMeEs L. A. WebB is professor

of chemistry at Goucher College, Balti-
more, Maryland. He was formerly on the
faculty at Southwestern University in
Memphis, Tennessee, for fourteen years.
At Memphis, he did research on_ the
stereochemistry of certain compounds,
through grants by the Research Corpora-
tion of New York and the Carnegie
Foundation. He has been a national tour
lecturer for the American Chemical So-
ciety.

HucuH P. Avery, personnel manager of the
Leslie Company in Lyndhurst, New Jersey,
was one of the featured speakers at the
Annual Personnel Conference held in Sep-
tember at the Hotel Astor in New York
City. He spoke to the 1,000 personnel and
management members on the subject.
“The Smaller Company, Leader or Fol-
lower?” Mr. Avery is a past president of
the Bergen County, New Jersey, Indus-
trial Relations Association, and is serving

 

HuGH AVERY

14

his second term as president of the Wy-
ckoff Board of Education.

f 0 HOMER D. JONES, JR., iS vice-pres-

ident of the Philadelphia office of Amer-
ican Business Executives, Inc., of Prince-
ton, New Jersey, a confidential service to
corporations in executive recruitment and
placement. ‘Vhe office is at 2 Penn Center
Plaza.

GUILLERMO Moscosco, Jr. has indepen-
dent offices in Lima, Peru, engaged in law,
insurance, real estate, investments and
finance, and public government relations.
He is interested in representing Ameri-
can interests in Lima. Address: Apartado
2078, Lima, Peru.

 

JAMEs H. BIeRER, ‘40, has been appointed
marketing manager for Consumer Prod-
ucts Division at Corning Glass Works. He
coordinates product development, market
research, planning, promotion, and adver-
iising. He has worked there since 1946.

4] FRANK W. Hynson has been pro-
moted to the rank of Captain, USNR, in
the Supply Corps. He was the only re-
serve officer so honored, and was selected
in competition with regular Navy Officers.
Frank is stationed at the Naval Supply
Depot, Norfolk, Virginia.

SAMUEL CREED GHOLSON has been award-
ed the Andrew Mellon Fellowship for pre-
doctoral study. His address is 317 North
Craig Street, Apartment 10, Pittsburgh
13, Pennsylvania. He had a one-man show
at the Davenport Municipal Art Gallery
in September of this year, and is listed in
Who’s Who in American Art.

4 2 Dr. NELSON C. STEENLAND, a patt-

ner in Geophysical Associates Interna-

 

 

R. WALLACE EBE, JR., ’42, has been named
manager of mechanical production in the
Washington, D.C. office of Ketchum, Mac-
Leod and Grove, Incorporated, advertising
and public relations firm since 1948. For
ten years, Wallace was technical advisor
for SIPA conventions at the University.

tional of Houston, Texas, has ben elected
editor of the publication for the Society
of Exploration Geophysics. The world-
wide organization has 5,500 members. Nel-
son will serve a two-year term.

WILLIAM M. MArtIN is Municipal Judge of
Citrus Judicial Circuit, and lives at 646
‘Terri Ann, West Covina, California. He is
a past assistant attorney for San Marino,
California, and past deputy city prose-
cutor. He organized the Glendora-Azusa
Lodge, a fraternal order of over five
hundred men, and served as its first Ex-
alted Ruler. He was Charter President of
the Citrus Shrine Club for the East San
Gabriel Valley area, and served as presi-
dent of the Hanford Youth Council, and
head of the United Fund Drive in West
Covina for two terms. He is an elder in
the Presbyterian church, and is the father
of five children. He is a director of Kings
County Junior Chamber of Commerce and
of the Valley Community Festival.

JAmMes W. MARTIN, jr. has joined the de-
velopment department of Monsanto
Chemical company’s Research and En-
gineering division at St. Louis, Missouri,
after serving with the Celanese Corpora-
tion at New York City. Address: 1700 S.
Second Street, St. Louis.

LZ WILLIAM L. DUGGER, JR. is actively

engaged in the oil business in ‘Texas and
Louisiana. He flew by jet plans to Praa-
guay in October, and bought a large ranch
in the northern part of the country for his
company, and expects to develop it short-
ly. Bill has been traveling in South Ameri-
ca for the past ten years, and says he

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

thinks the climate for
United States businessmen is
Paraguay.

investment by
good in

LAWRENCE C. SULLIVAN, JR. is now a part-
ner in the firm of Baker, Brydon, Ren-
nolds and Whitt, certified public  ac-
countants in Virginia. The firm has of-
fices in Richmond, Fredericksburg, Ma-
nassas, and Warrenton.

49 WALTER F. Lirrte, JR. is now

publishing Cotton Farming Magazine, a
Mississippi River Valley agricultural pub-
lication founded by him in 1957. His ad-
dreess is 1316 Carolyn Drive, Memphis
11, Tennessee.

5 0 CHARLES FARRINGTON, JR and _ his

wife vacationed in Las Vegas, and visited
Richard B. Taylor, ’51, in September, at
the Las Vegas Hacienda in Nevada. Dick
is general manager of the Hacienda,
which, among other attractions, boasts
a night lighted golf course. Charles, who
is a public relations consultant in Phoen-
ix, Arizona, reported he and his wife had
a wonderful time in the fabulous resort
city.

Art Woop, editorial cartoonist for the
Pittsburgh Press, was honored with the
George Washington Medal of the Free-
doms Foundation for his cartoon. “Let
Freedom Ring.” The presentation was
made by Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, president
of the Foundation on a_ telecast over
KDKA-TV on September 27.

5. 2 Epwarp E. ELuis, after an overseas

tour with the Air Force in the JAG De-
partment, has returned to the states and
is now employed in New York City with
Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland and
Kiendl.

53 WiutiAM H. CoLEMAN had. an

eventful first year in Florida with the birth
of his first child, Nancy Diane, on last
June 18, and being appointed secretary-
treasurer of the Florida Press, Inc., a lith-
ographic plant in Orlando, specializing in
color work. He now resides at 1501 Sul-
tana Lane, Maitland, Florida.

WILLIAM E. RAWLINGS is employed in the
advertising department of Maxwell House
Coffee. His address is Maxwell House
Division, General Foods Corporation, Ho-
boken, New Jersey.

SAMUEL K. PATTON has been promoted to
mathematician-programmer in the ‘Tech-
nical Services Department in the advance
computer systems development area in
the IBM Product Development Labor-
atory at Poughkeepsie, New York. He is
also assisting with the preparation of in-
struction material for special computor

FALL 1959

 

Marine First Lieutenant S. LARRY WEIN-

ERTH, JR., 56, recetved his Navy Wings on
September 23, 1959, at the Naval Air Sta-
lion, in Pensacola, Florida.

programming classes. He won his master’s
degree in math at Syracuse University in
1958 and was then an instructor for a
year. He joined IBM last June. Address:
P. O. Box 1373, Poughkeepsie, New York.

54 GrorGE Hunt MITCHELL, JR. was

awarded his medical degree in 1958 from
George Washington University. He in-
terned at the University hospital there
for a year, and in July, 1959, he entered
the U.S. Navy for his period of service. He
is presently stationed in Washington and
lives at 5900 Anniston Road, Bethesda 14,
Maryland. He is married to the former
Betty Ann Gantz of Bethesda, and they
have two children: a son, George Hunt,
Jr., almost four; and a daughter, Juliet
Tibbals, six months old.

55 ROBERT LAMERT GUYER and _ his

wife, Sally, are the parents of four chil-
dren. ‘They recently moved from Mariet-
ta, Ohio to Phoenix, Arizona, where he
is an account executive with radio station
KRIZ in Phoenix. Address: 5518 West
Whi Hon Avenue, Phoenix.

56 Joun J. Popuvar, IT, is in his final

year of graduate study at Cornell Univer-
sity for his master’s degree in Industrial
and Labor Relations. He is on an assis-
tantship and is teaching as well as doing
research. Last summer, John: worked as a
summer Industrial Relations trainee for
the American Brass Company in Water-
bury, Connecticut. His address is 254
Cornell Quarters, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.

PETER JAcoBs of Book Metals Corporation
in New York City, was one of a hundred
executives chosen to attend a seminar held
at Kellogg Center, Michigan State Univer-
sity, August 9-14. The seminar was spon-
sored by the National Asociation of Waste
Material Dealers. Peter’s address is 80
Broad Street, New York 4, New York.

‘THOMAS SPENCER MCCALLIE is a Lt. (j.g.)
in the Navy. He was graduated from of-
ficers’ candidate school at Newport, Rhode
Island in 1957, and is stationed aboard the
U.S.S. ‘Tidewater. Home address is 370 S.
Crest Road, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Aucustus Moopy Burt, III, a graduate
of Virginia ‘Theological Seminary last
June, is in charge of Christ Episcopal
Church in Walnut Cove, Church of the
Messiah in Mayodan, and St. Phillip’s
church in Germantown, North Carolina.

Ly FRANK AHLGREN, JR., besides be-

ing a reporter for the El Paso Herald-
Post in ‘Texas, has a parttime career as a
Western entertainer as well. Just for fun,
he twangs the guitar and sings Western
ballads for the El Paso Kiwanis club, the
Southwestern Livestock Show and Rodeo,
the El Paso Press Club, the local television
stations, and other various gatherings
Originally from Memphis, where his fath-
er edits the Commercial Appeal, Frank
migrated West and got the Western bug.
He has complete outfits of Western
clothes, plus a genuine Bowie knife, a
shotgun, a rifle, and two revolvers. Frank
is currently writing two psychological
Western novels.

JOHN FLoyp ARNOLD, a student at Yale
Divinity School for the past two years, is
spending this college year as a “Chaplain
Intern” at Rice Institute, Houston, Texas,
having received a fellowship under the
Campus Christian Life program of the
Presbyterian Synod, U.S. His present ad-
dress is: 193014 Swift Street, Houston, 25,
John has also served as a Chaplain Intern
at the New Jersey Neuro-Psychiatric In-
stitute at Princeton, New Jersey, and last
summer, he was minister to the three mis-
sion churches of Winchester (Virginia)
Presbytery. He plans to return to Yale
next year, and will receive his Bachelor
of Divinity degree in May, 1961.

LAWRENCE A. ATLER this fall was selected
to an unprecedented second-year term as
president of the college of law at the
University of Denver in Colorado.

H. GREIG CUMMINGs, JR. has become an
associate of the firm of Folger, Nolan,
Fleming-W. B. Hibbs and Company, In-
corporated, member of the New York
Stock Exchange, with offices at 725 Fif-
teenth Street, Washington, D. C.

5 & Lr. DALE L. CARTER was assigned

to the Fifth Training Battalion’s head-
quarters at Fort Bliss, Texas, on Septem-

15

 

ber 25, 1959. He entered the army last
April, after employment at the Le Mas-
ter Building Company.

KENNETH H. ‘THYGESEN is instructor in
physics at Clarkson College of ‘Technology,
Potsdam, New York. He and his wife, the
former Jane Morley, are the parents of
two children, K. Wayne, three, and Cathy,
one. Address: 7114 Main Street, Potsdam,
New York.

59 SECOND LIEUTENANT E. M. BABER

completed a_ twelve-week field artillery
officers basic course at the Artillery and
Missile School, Fort Sill, Oklahoma on
October 7.

Epwarp D. “Corky” BRISCOE, JR. is now
studying law at the University of Louis-
ville.

SAMUEL MELVILLE McCartuy received his
commission as an ensign in the Naval
Reserve in August, and is on duty with
the Guided Missile Service Unit 211,
Naval Weapons Station, Yorktown, Vir-
ginia.

J. H. Sktar is now addressed as Second
Lieutenant Sklar of the U.S. Marine
Corps. He was commissioned on Septem-
ber 5, 1959, after a platoon leader’s course
at the Marine Corps Schools in Quantico,
Virginia.

JoHN W. WorsHAM, Jr. is a high school
teacher by day, a graduate student by
night. He is working on his master’s de-
gree at ‘Trinity University.

 

1950

ERNEsT ‘T. LovE was married to Barbara
Carrel on September 12, 1959. He is mer-
chandise manager with Sears Roebuck in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, and he and
his wife live at 1824 Alvarado, N.E., Al-
buquerque.

1953

THE REVEREND SAM BYRON HULSEY and
Linda Louise Johnson were married on

16

October 3, 1959 at the St. John’s Episcopal
Church, Corsicana, Texas.

1956

DANIEL BUSH ‘THOMPSON was married on
September 12, 1959 in Bridgeport, Con-
necticut to Pamela Diane Yeager. He is
with the Purchasing Department, Camp-
bell Soup Company. Address 139 Fern
Avenue, Collingswood, New Jfarsey.

DAN BRECKINRIDGE Moore and Jane Alice
Barrons were married June 20, 1959, in
Memorial Presbyterian church, Midland,
Michigan. Dan, who has had postgraduate
study at the Art Student League in New
York City, and the Skowhegan School of
Painting and Sculpture, in Skowhegan,
Maine, is now doing graduate work in
residential building at Michigan State
University. He and his wife are living at
1209-C, University Village, East Lansing,
Michigan.

SAMUEL AUGUSTUS SYME, JR., and Margar-
et Janet Stennis were married November
21, 1959, at the Presbyterian church, De-
Kalb, Mississippi.

DupLEY DEAN FLANDERS and Mary South-
gate Brewster were married August 28,
1959, at First Presbyterian Church, Laud-
el, Mississippi. They are making their
home at 2718 Lowerline street in New
Orleans, Louisiana.

1957

Lr. (j.g.) MicHAEL EUGENE CHANEY and
Diana Moulton Dowler, a 1959 graduate of
Hollins, were married October 17, 1959, at
Highland Park Methodist Church, Dallas,
‘Texas. Robert Cairns, 57, was an usher.
Lt. Chaney is stationed aboard the U.SS.
Macon, in care of Fleet Post Office, New
York, New York.

RICHARD R. WARREN and Eliza Gatewood
Harlow were married October 17, 1959, in
New Monmouth Presbyterian church near
Lexington, Virginia. He is associated with
Consolidated Appraisal Company in New
York City, and they are making their
home in Bronxville.

1959

JAMEs RoBERT LOWE was married on
September 12 in Tappahannock, Virginia,
to Anita Balderson, a member of the
class of 1959 at Madison College. James
and his bride are living in Loudon, Ten-
nessee until he reports for two years ac-
tive duty with the Ordnance Corps of the
U.S. Army on January 4, 1960.

ROBERT CONRAD LEMON and_ Suzanne
Greenwood Sessoms were married Octob-
er 19, 1959, in St. James’ Episcopal church,
Richmond, Virginia. Jonathan Richard
Lemon, ’60, was his brother’s best man.
The young couple are living in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, where Mr. Lemon is a re-
porter for the Post-Gazette.

 

1949

Mr. and Mrs. J. WILLARD GREER are the
parents of a daughter, Elizabeth Wilson,
born August 15, 1959. They now have two
boys and two girls. Address: 1508 Irish
Street, South Boston, Virginia.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. THomas R. SHEPHERD are
the parents of a third daughter, Eliza-
beth Reinhart, born October 3, 1959.
Tom is personnel manager for Sylvania
Home Electronics, Batavia, New York.
Address: Box 265, Dale, New York.

Mr. and Mrs. H. MELVILLE Hicks, Jr., are
the parents of a daughter, Ruthmarie
Garcia Hicks, born July 30, 1959. They
live in White Plains, New York.

THE REVEREND and Mrs. C. BYRON WAITES
are the parents of a daughter, Evelyn,
born November 1, 1959.

1953

Mr. and Mrs. CHESTER 'TABER SMITH, Jr.
are the parents of a first child, a daughter,
Page Shelton Smith, born January 19,
1959. They live at 2 Grace Court, Brook-
lyn Heights 1, New York.

1953

Mr. and Mrs. Sruart J. BRACKEN are the
parents of their first child, a son, Goeff-
rey Houston, born April 15, 1959.

1955

Mr. and Mrs. JosepH J. HECKMANN, III,
are the parents of a daughter, Cathy, born
August 17, 1959.

1956

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. Popuar, II, are the
parents of a second daughter, Donna Lee,
born August 14, 1959. Vicki Lynn is now
three years old.

1957

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM LEE KAUFFMAN are
the parents of a first daughter, Sage, born
May 30, 1959 in Peterbough, New Hamp-
shire. They also have a son. Address: East
Hill Road, Peterbough.

1958

Mr. and Mrs. PHit“tip W. TurRNER, III are
the parents of a son, Philip. Gadsden,
born October 5, 1959.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

1908

MONTAGUE ISBELL LiIppeTr died October
6, 1956. He lived in Washington, D.C. at
3733 Van Ness Street, N.W.

1909

STANLEY A. BEARD, who practiced law in
Houston, Texas, for half a century, died
on September 28, 1959. He had served
in the ‘Texas Legislature, and drafted the
law which made Texas history compulsory
in schools there. During World War I, he
was an officer for the Eighth Naval District
in New Orleans.

1911

HENRY CLAPHAM McGAvaAck died on Sep-
tember 12, 1959 at Fifth Avenue-Flower
Hospital in New York City. He had been
employed as an executive for many years
with the United States Lines in New York,
until his retirement in 1953. In his early
years, he was in the banking business in
Washington, D.C. During the last four
years of his life, he was class agent for
Washington and Lee.

1913

WILLIAM A. Wricnut died October g, 1950.
at his home in Tappahannock, Virginia.
He was formerly head of the Virginia Co:
servation Commission, and a_ former
member of the Virginia General Assemb-
ly, and of the State Highway Commission.
He was retired from his law practice in
‘Tappahannock.

1915

PHILLIP ASHTON LAUGHLIN died at_ his
home in Wheeling, West Virginia, in his
sleep on August 9, 1959. For many years,
he was with the Wheeling Tile Company.
He was a brother of Samuel Ott Laughlin,
"14, who died in 1957.

JOHN Quincy RuHopes, JR. died on May
9, 1959. He made his home in Louisa, Vir-
ginia.

1920

THOMAS SELDEN JONES died August 28,
1959. His home was in Huntington, West
Virginia.

1924

JoHN Sutron Stump died on August 28,
1959. He had practiced law in Clarksburg,
West Virginia, for many years. Among his
survivors are two alumni sons, James W.
Stump, °53, and John S. Stump, °57.

FALL 1959

 

1925

CHARLES A. DESAussURE, JR. died on Oc-
tober 21, 1959, at his home in Norwalk,
Connecticut. He was past president of the
Norwalk Real Estate Board, and of the
Rod and Gun Club. He was a member of
the Board of Tax Review, a director of
the Connecticut Civil Defense Auxiliary
Police and a charter member of the Cit-
izens’ Action committee.

1926

Dr. CHARLES HENRY PATTERSON died on
August 9, 1959. He practiced medicine
in Lynchburg, Virginia, for many years.

1928

RussELL Woop JORDAN, a senior vice-pres-
ident and counsel of the Lawyers Title
Insurance Corporation, died February 12,
1959. He was a former professor of law at
the University of Richmond. Joining the
insurance company in 1929, he was elect-
ed title officer in 1932, vice-president and
title officer in 1942, and _ vice-president
and counsel in 1950.

1929

Dr. JOHN GOODNER GILL, vice-president of
Rider College, died October 16, 1959,
following .a_ brief illness. He made his
home at 831 West State Street, Trenton,
New Jersey. Dr. Gill served as president
of the Council of Churches of Greater
Trenton, and as president of the New
Brunswick Presbytery Council. From
1954 till 1957, he was national president
of the Babe Ruth League. He was a past
president of the New Jersey Asociation
of Schools of Business, and was co-found-

er and first secretary of the New Jersey
Association of Colleges and Universities.

1940

ALEC Nicot THOMPSON, head cost clerk of
the duPont plant at Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, died October 30, 1959, when the
Piedmont Airlines plane in which he was
a passenger plowed into a mountain near
Waynesboro. He and two other company
employees were returning to Waynesboro
from a business trip. The wreckage of the
plane was not found until two days after
the accident. Mr. ‘Thomson joined duPont
in 1941. He was a past commander of the
Stuarts Draft VFW post and a past pres-
ident of the Ruritan Club there.

1943

‘THEODORE R. Cresta, former City Attor-
ney for Garfield, New Jersey, died Sep-
tember 12, 1958, as a result of a heart at-
tack suffered while playing golf. Ted, 37
years old, played varsity football and base-
ball at Washington and Lee, and had
captained the football team in 1942. Dur-
ing World War II, he served as a lieu-
tenant in the Navy. Upon his discharge,
he attended John Marshall Law school,
where he was graduated in 1951. He is
survived by his wife, the former Jean E.
Bruso, a son, Douglas Theodore, and a
daughter, Sullen.

1949

Dr. WILLIAM LATANE FLANAGAN died Oc-
tober 12, 1959, victim of a shooting by a
town councilman in Christianburg, Vir-
ginia. Dr, Flanagan had been practicing
medicine in Christianburg since 1956, af-
ter Navy service in Korea and Japan.

 

 

NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS
PATS ise che ec ee a ee
First Middle Last Class
PR es a an ee ee
Street
ee edn nc vei ie Ae eRe ee a,
PUB W Cee ie a
Street
og nk tees ee cs oo
ate
News about yourself for Class Notes:...........::sccsssssssssecsseseessssarseecseos

 

 

17

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold Trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $27.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

Orders for Christmas delivery must be received prior to November 27

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

