 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

n Announcement about Tuition
| _ Trustees Reafirm Athletic Policy

Winter 1957 A Letter from President Eisenhower

   

 

Regional Agents for 195‘/

Alexandria, Louisiana—George M. Foote, ’40, 2538 Avenue C

Alexandria, Virginia—Frederick A. Marsteller, 37, 310 South
Lee Street

Anderson, South Carolina—Alvin T. Fleishman, ’41, Box 253

Ashland, Kentucky—Richard O. Parmelee, ’32, Ventura Hotel

Atlanta, Georgia—Rodney M. Cook, ’46, 5775 Long Island
Drive, N.W.

Augusta, Georgia—W. Hale Barrett, ’50, 2644 Henry Street

Baltimore, Maryland—Frank C. Brooks, ’46, 213 Saint Paul

Place
Baton Rouge, Louisiana—John P. Nelson, °52, 850 North
: Boulevard
Birmingham, Alabama—Raleigh M. Jenkins, ’24, 4120 Ist
Avenue, South
Bluefield, West Virginia—E,. Daniel Wells, Jr., ’43, Box 175
Bristol, Virginia—Waldo G. Miles, ’38, 17 Long Crescent Dr.

Buena Vista, Virginia—Everett J. Schneider, Jr., 44, lst Na-
tional Bank

Charleston, South Carolina—Park Smith, ’51, 125% Tradd St.

Charleston, West Virginia—Wm. T. W. Brotherton, Jr., *47,
Box 2525

Charlotte, North Carolina—John Schuber, °44, 207 Alton-

: dale Avenue
Charlottesville, Virginia—Ernest V. Echols, ’41, 1332 Rugby

Road

Chatttagoona, Tennessee—Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 904 Avon
Place

Chicago, Illinois—Alton D. Farber, 40, 1360 Lakeshore Drive,
Apt. 1508

Cincinnati, Ohio—Ned H. Brower, ’42, 3910 Wess Park Drive
Clarksburg, West Virginia—Paul A. Hornor, ’31, P. O. Box
386

Clarksdale, Mississippi— William H. Maynard, Jr.,
670, Route 1

Cleveland, Ohio—Roy D. Prentiss, ’44, 17605 Kinsman Road

Columbia, South Carolina—Grady H. Forgy, Jr., °42, 1306
Lady Street

Columbus, Ohio—Harry T. Minister, Jr.,
velt Avenue

Covington, Virginia—Roscoe B. Stephenson, Jr.,
House Square

Cumberland, Maryland—William L,. Wilson, ’38, 525 Cum-
berland Street

Danville, Virginia—Richard L. Heard, ’44, 220 Robertson Ave.

Eastern Shore, Virginia—Herbert S. Powell, ’20, Wacha-
preague, Virginia.

Emporia, Virginia—George S. Lowry, ’37,
Falls Church, Virginia—Jack A. Crowder. 47, 809 Larchwood
Road

50, Box

Fort Smith, Arkansas—Karl P. Willard, ’35, Willard Mirror
Company, Factory District

Frankfort, Kentucky—Charles L. Hobson, ’41, 605 Briar Cliff

Frederick, Maryland—George T. Myers, "39, 202 Grove Blvd.

Greenville, South Carolina—James F. Gallivan, 51, P.O:
Box 120

Hagerstown, Maryland—Omer T. Kaylor, ’11, Grace Building

Harrisonburg, Virginia— William B. Gunn, ’42, Box 668

Houston, Texas—Robert W.
Building
Huntington, West Virginia—C. Thomas Garten, ’42, 1856 Ens-
low Boulevard

Indianapolis, Indiana—W.
gan

Jackson, Mississipi—U. Grey Flowers, Jr.,
Bank Building, P. O. Box 2022

Johnson Ow, Tennessee—Allen H. Wofford, 33, Llewellyn

ood

Kansas City, Missouri—John M. Atwood, '42, 209 Wrest 66th
‘Terrace

Knoxville, Tennessee—Thomas H. Broadus,
Broadus Insurance

Lewisburg, West Virginia—Joseph M. Holt, 25, Box 146

Lexington, Kentucky—Charles W. Swinford, "43, 421 Holliday
Road

Lexington, Cee ero W. H. Mish, Ir.
887

Davis, Jr., 30, 1503 Esperson

Gordon Iler, II, ’51, 102 W. Michi-
"43, Ist National

°25 care of Thos.

Little Rock, Arkansas—Everett Tucker, Jr.,
Street

Long Island, New York—Stephen E. Campbell, Jr., ’41, 68
Carlton Avenue, Port Washington, New Y ork

Los Angeles, California—Stanley A. Kamen, ’49, 151 El Cam-
ino Drive, Beverly Hills, California.

34, 115 West 6th

"49, 162 N. Roose-
43, Court

46 P. O. Box |

Louisville, Kentucky—Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg, Virginia—Robert B. Taylor, 44, 3610 Manton Dr.

Marion, Virginia—J. Aubrey Matthews, ’42, Box 859

Martinsburg, West Virginia—Clyde FE. Smith, Jr., °42, 199
North Tennessee Avenue

Martinsville, Virginia—-Stafford G. Whittle, III, 49, 1317 Mul-
berry Road

Memphis, Tennessee—Henry M. Barker, 49, 4942 Essexshire

Miami, Florida—Alvin C. Terrill, ’52, Box 736, Perrine, Fla.

Mobile, Alabama—H. Odgen Shropshire, ’24 207 First Na-
tional Bank Annex

Monroe, Louisiana—William G. Faulk, ’34, Box 1192

ren: Alabama—John A. Bonham, °44, P. O. Box
1533

 

Montgomery, West Virginia—FEarl M. Vickers, ’49, 301% 6th

Avenue

Nashville, Tennessee—Wilson B. Armistead, 48, 212 Heady
Drive

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert G. Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke
Service

Newport News, Virginia—John P. Bowen, Jr., °51, 215-217
25th Street, The Daily Press, Inc.

New River-Greenbrier—Claude R. Hill, Jr., °54, 306 Summer-
lee Avenue, Oak Hill, West Virginia

New eore ee York—E. Stewart Epley, 49, 415 East 52nd

treet

Norfolk, Virginia—Bernard Levin, ’42, 7407 Cortlandt Place

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma—Joseph B. Edwards, ’°40, 2700
N.W. 41st Street

Orlando, Florida—Warren H. Edwards, ’39, P. O. Box 1607

Owensboro, Kentucky—William L. Woolfolk, ’25, 2119 Fred-
erica Street

Parkersburg, West Virginia—John S. Bailey, Jr., ’51, P. O.
Box 310

Pensacola, Florida—William J. Noonan, Jr., ’43, 2005 East
Maxwell Street

Petersburg, Virginia—Eugene R. Marable, Jr., 44, 1523 West-
over Avenue

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—James T. ‘Trundle, ’50, 59-3
Drexelbrook Drive, Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania

Pine Bluff, Arkansas—Walter J. Wilkins, ’14, 3721 S. Poplar

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania—James C. Evans, °44, 1001 Willow
Street, Springdale, Pennsylvania

Portsmouth, Virginia— William H. Oast, Jr., 44, 421 Broad St.

Raleigh, North Carolina—John R. Baldwin, ’51, Apt. R, Glen-
wood Apts.

Roanoke, Virginia—A. Linwood Holton, Jr. ’44, Eggleston &
Holton, 209 State & City Building

St. Louis, Missouri—John [L. Patterson, ’21, 4144 Lindell
Boulevard

San Antonio, Texas—Thomas C. Frost, ’50, Box 1600

San Francisco, California—Robert N. Sweeney, ’41, Grace &
Company (Pacific Coast), 2 Pine Street

Shreveport, Louisiana—Horace H. Jeter, ’42, 4534 Fairfield

South Boston, Virginia—Brent Remsburg, ’38, Box 154

Staunton, Virginia—Francis L. Summers, Jr., 52, 319 College
Circle

Tampa, Florida—Wm. Earle Tucker, ’48, 201 Stovall Profes-
sional Building

Tazewell, Virginia—James W. Harman, Jr.,

Tulsa, Oklahoma—Hansford L,. Farris, Jr., 41, 2214 East 25th
Place

Upper New Jersey—Richard H. Turrell, ’49, 6 Essex Road,

Chatham, New Jersey
"49, 4000 Cathedral

Washington, D. C2 Ghu W. Warner, Jr.,
Waynesboro, Virginia—J. B. Stombock, ’41, 421 Walnut Ave.

)

Ave., Apt. 348-B

Welch, West Virginia—Benjamin F. Howard, ’21, Box 391
-- Westchester Co., New York, and Lower Connecticut—Donald

S. Hillman, 46, 293 Fox Meadow Road, Scarsdale,
New York.

Western New Mexico—Jackson G. Akin, Jr., °40, Rodey,
Dickason, Sloan, Mims & Akin, Ist National Bank
Building, Albuquerque, New Mexico

Wheeling, West Virginia— Wilmot L. Harris, ’28, Mail Pouch
Tobacco Company

Williamsburg, Virginia—James C. Graff,
Farms Co., P. O. Box 1958

Wilmington, Delaware—James F. Booker,
Hilton Road, Oaklane Manor

Winchester, Virginia— Richard K. Eddy, ’33, Box 523

"44, Jamestown

48, 1008 South

 

Appalachian—James R. Lyle, ’48, 245 Broad Street

Kingsport, Tennessee
Augusta-Rockingham—Richard W. Smith, ’41, In-
dustrial Loan Building, Staunton, Virginia.

"46, 46 Fifth St., N.W.

Egglestown,
"49, 2824

Atlanta—Rodney Cook,
51,

Baltimore—T. Talbott Bond,
Maryland
Birmingham—Warren 5 Merrin, Jr

Thornhill Road, Apt. 282-B
Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr

34 United Carbon Building
. Stephens, °50, 904 Avon

Chattanooga—Georgi U
Place

Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois

Charlotte—Herbert Woodward, Jr., ’41, 3916 Shel-
ton Place

Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter, ’41, 1020 Union Trust
Building

Cleveland—Roy D. Prentiss, °44, 17605 Kinsman
Road

Danville—R. Paul Sanford, ’21, 422 Masonic Build-
ing
Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley, ’34, First
Federal Building, St. Petersburg
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building
Miami, Florida
Houston—Ben Ditto, ’48, care of Norton Ditto Co.
Jr., °483, 625 Hogan

Jacksonville—A. B. Conley,
"49, 15 West 10th

Street
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy,
"40 Kentucky

Street
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II,

Home Life Building
Lynchburg—Richard F. Burke, III, ’42, 203 Lynch

Building
Mid-South—Harry Wellford, ’46, Commerce Title

Building, Memphis, Tennessee
New York—Clark B. Winter, ’37, 65 Broadway
°30, Jahncke

New Orleans—Herbert Jahncke,

Service
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, ’138,
Beckley, West Virginia
i , 51, C&P Tele-

Worfolk—John K. Boardman, Jr.

phone Company of Virginia, 423 Boush Street

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas

, 44, Shreve-

Northwest Louisiana—Richard Eglin
*B1,, 325 16th

por

Peninsula—Richard E. McMurran

St., Newport News, Virginia

Philadelphia—William L. Leopold, ’39, 183 Pelham

Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina

> .» '41, 702

l
Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr
802 Insurance

Frick Building
Richmond—Don Fergusson, ’51,
Building
Roanoke—Richard T. Edwards, ’33, Colonial Bank
Building
W. Goode, Jr., °48, 407-09

San Antonio—John
South Texas Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson,
Boulevard
Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, '31, Box 1672, Huntington,
West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland
Washington, bp. C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,
» 1313 You Street, N.W.

"21, 4144 Lindell

°° 9S eeeeeeee,
CCeee
ee

Winter 1957

Vol. XXXII
No. 1
Incorporated

Published quarterly by Aiumni
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

Editor
JAMES H. PRICE, JR., 1941
Managing Editor
‘TINA C. JEFFREY

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvIs, JR.
FRANK J. GILLIAM
JAMES H. PRICE, JR.

DONALD E. SMITH
Harry K. (Cy) YOuNG

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
MartTIN P. Burks, III, 1932

Vice-President

HowarpbD W. DoBBINSs, 1942

Secretary
HARRY K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917
Associate Secretary

JAMEs H. PRICE, JR., 1941

Treasurer
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MarTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
JoHN F. HENDON, 1924
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928
Howarp W. DoBBINS, 1942
PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., 1937
ERNEST Woopwarb, II, 1940
Davin D. JOHNSON, 1921
FRANK C. Brooks, 1946

COVER:
Officers and dates at Fancy Dress Ball on February 1

line up in front of the Don Giovanni setting

 

 

 

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

January 18, 1957

Dear Dr. Gaines:

It is a privilege to join you in observing the one hundred
fiftieth anniversary of the birth of Robert E. Lee. The
traditions of Washington and Lee University provide a
splendid setting for this commemoration.

Son of Washington's cavalry officer and friend, Lee was
by marriage and spirit a member of George Washington's
family. For over thirty years, ag a surveyor, engineer
and soldier, he helped to secure the boundaries of the
United States.

In the tragedy of divided loyalties, even while he led the

Army of Northern Virginia, Lee served as the highest

standard of leadership for soldiers both of the North and
South, One of the noblest men our Nation has produced,
his influence remains unchanging and his picture is on
the wall of my office next to Lincoln's.

On the campus of the University to which he gave his last
full measure of devotion, his contribution to the Union,
his leadership and integrity are carried forward in the
hearts of your young students. In the promise of these
men, gathered equally from all parts of the United States,
I find the fulfillment of Lee's career.

With warmest greetings to you all,

Sincerely,

 

Dr. Francis P. Gaines
President

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

 

{

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  

HE WINTER MONTHS SPED_ by
Ta at Washington and Lee
University, broken by the two-week
vacation at Christmastime. Students
participated in a frenzy of pre-holi-
day activities, dispersed all over the
continent on December 20 to spread
Yuletide cheer to parents and loved
ones, then returned for a couple
of weeks of nose-to-the-grindstone
studying before semester examina-
tions began.

Although Lexington had a com-
paratively mild winter, a three-inch
snow fell on January 16, and re-
mained on the ground for three
days. Students slipped away from
their books long enough to have
some good snowfights, and to slide

WINTER 1957

University News

screaming down an icy Letcher
avenue hill on sleds borrowed from
small fry, or on turkey platters bor-
rowed from fraternity kitchens.

Winter activities were many and
varied, as clubs and organizations
roared into high gear. The Univer-
sity Glee Club entertained resort
hotel managers from all over the
world at a weekend convention be-
ginning November 24 at the Green-
briar Hotel. The club’s musical
presentation brought high praise
for Washington and Lee from those
present. |

On December 4, the ‘Troubadour
theater presented the first of three
performances of “The “Tempest.”
The Glee Club joined the Sweet

 

Back Campus after January Snow Storm.

Briar college choir on December 7,
to present selections from Handel’s
Messiah in Lexington Presbyterian
church. On December 8, the Corn
Bowl classic was played on Wilson
Field for the benefit of the Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund.
Participants in the gridiron melee
were the Red Kernels, composed ot
Red Square fraternities and Kappa
Alphas, against the White Cobs,
composed of players from all other
fraternities. Victors were the Reds.

Betore Christmas, seven fraterni-
ties gave parties for Rockbridge
county underprivileged children,
and all fraternities banded together
to contribute $340 to the Christmas
basket program of the county. The

3

 

 

Joun N. BEHRMAN

Candlelight Service was held in
Lee Chapel at 10:30 p.m. on De-
cember 18.

On January g, a concert to bene-
fit the Emergency Appeal for Hun-
garians was presented in Doremus
gymnasium by Miss Iren Marik,
Hungarian concert pianist, now on
the music faculty at Sweet Briar
College. Sponsored by the Concert
Guild, her performance _ raised
about $200 for Hungarian relief.

The Southern Collegian  an-
nounced on January 10 that its
printing contract had gone to a
Lynchburg company for the three
remaining issues. Due to crowded
conditions in the University Print
Shop, delivery could not be guar-
anteed for the three dance sets,
February 1-2, April 19-20, and June
5-6, so the book will be printed off
campus, instead.

Students at the University joined
in special tribute to the memory
of General Robert E. Lee in a
Founder’s Day assembly at noon,
January 19, the 150th anniversary
of the birth of the great general and
educator. President Gaines de-
livered his annual address, and read
a letter from President Dwight D.
Eisenhower praising General Lee
as “one of the noblest men our na-

4

tion has produced.” The President
said he kept Lee’s picture on the
wall of his office, next to Lincoln’s
photograph.

Fancy Dress Ball this year had as
its theme Mozart’s ““Don Giovanni,”
with the setting as the National
Theater in Prague on October 209,
1787, premiere date for opera. Stu-
dents and dates came costumed as
royalty of Europe in colorful satins,
laces and white wigs—a fact which
didn’t deter them in the least from
rocking and rolling, 1957 style, to
the music of Les Brown and his or-

chestra. An innovation this year
was a special student-faculty recep-

 

MARSHALL W. FISHWICK

tion prior to the ball, held at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel, with appro-
priate music furnished by the Rich-
mond String Quartet.

 

PROMOTIONS FOR SEVEN members

of the Washington and Lee faculty
will be effective September 1, au-
thorized by the Board of ‘Trustees
at its last meeting. Three men were
made full professors, three others
raised from assistant to associate
professorships, and one was pro-

moted from instructor to assistant
professor.

Named as professors were: John
N. Behrman, economics and _politi-
cal science; Marshall W. Fishwick,
American studies; and John Harvey
Wheeler, Jr., political science.

New associate professors are: C.
Westbrook Barritt, Spanish; Jay C.
Cook, Jr., accounting; and George
Francis Drake, French. Thomas E.
Ennis, Jr., was promoted to assist-
ant professor of accounting.

@ FRANK J. GILLIAM, dean of stu-
dents at Washington and Lee, has
been named to the board of trus-
tees of the Episcopal ‘Theological
Seminary in Virginia at Alexandria.
He will represent the Diocese of
Southwestern Virginia.

Filling a recently-created vacancy,
Dean Gilliam will serve until 1958
under the present appointment.
More students are now attending
the seminary from Washington and
Lee than any other college in the
United States, Dean Gilliam says.

# DR. EDWARD D. MYERS, On one
year’s leave of absence in Munich,
Germany, to work on a special pro-
ject for the Fund for the Advance-
ment of Education, has had a busy
winter of research and_ writing,

 

JOHN HARVEY WHEELER

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

New initiates and local graduate members of Omicron Delta Kappa gathered in front of the Student Union building on November 30,
1956, for this picture. On the front row in the center, are RUSSELL Lapp, president of the chapter; Dr. Francis P. Gaines; and Dr. HARRY
J. CARMAN, dean emeritus of Columbia University, guest speaker at the tapping ceremony.

plus some speaking engagements
designed to cement good German-
American relations in the area.

Under the joint auspices of the
Office of Public Affairs of the Amer-
ican Embassy at Bad Godesburg,
and German schools and universi-
ties concerned, he lectured as fol-
lows: November, ‘Differences Be-
tween English and American Lan-
guages’ to foreign languge teachers
in four German high schools; Jan-
uary 30—Nuerenburg, in coopera-
tion with Hockschule fiir Wirts-
chafts and Sozialwissenschapten on
‘Toynbee and His Critics,’ in Ger-
man language; January 31—at Er-
langen University, same topic in
English: Feb. 1-4, one lecture at
the Padagogische Hochschule Ber-
lin-Laukwitz, on ‘‘Education in Per-
spective,” in German; one lecture
at Free University, Berlin; Feb-
ruary 5, lecture at Frankfurt Uni-
versity; February 6, Heidelberg
University.

Doctor Myers, professor of phil-

WINTER 1957

osophy at Washington and Lee, was
in London from December 4-15,
working in the Reading Room of
the British Museum on the project,
and has now begun the task of writ-
ing it.

m JAY D. COOK, JR., 43, assistant pro-
fessor of accounting, was awarded
his doctorate degree on December
20, 1956, from Ohio State Univer-
sity at the autumn quarter convoca-
tion.

 

m AS IN THE PAST, Washington and
Lee attracted an unusual array of
outstanding speakers during the
winter, and they spoke on a variety
of subjects.

Dr. Walter Starkie, author and
lecturer, and former professor of
Spanish and Italian literature at

Dublin University in Ireland, gave
three lectures on November 15 and
16, sponsored by the department of
Romance languages. His topics:
“Gypsy Life, History and Music’:
“The Wanderings of Don Quixote
and Sancho: A Visit ‘Today to the
Scene of La Mancha”; and “A Sym-
posium in Elysium: Shaw, Piran-
dello, Becente and O’Neill.’’

An alumnus, Dr. David Wice, ’27,
Rabbi of Rodeph Temple in Phila-
delphia, chose as his subject on No-
vember 28, “Does Scientific Know-
ledge Make It Difficult to Accept
Religious Faith?” His visit was
sponsored jointly by the Christian
Association, Washington Literary
Society, Graham-Lee Society, and
the Student Service Society. He also
spoke in several classrooms during
his visit.

Dean Harry J. Carman, dean
emeritus of Columbia University,
spoke at ceremonies in Lee chapel
on November go, at which sixteen
men were tapped for membership

5

in Omicron Delta Kappa, national
honorary leadership fraternity.

‘The annual Seminars in Litera-
ture series began on December 10,
with Dr. Carlos Baker, chairman of
the English department at Prince-
ton, and a Hemingway authority, as
speaker. His subject was “Heming-
way and the Emotionated Land-
scape.’ Professor David Daiches of
Cambridge University, England,
was speaker on February 11 at the
second seminar in Literature. Au-
thor of numerous studies, including
“The Novel and the Modern
World,” “Poetry and the Modern
World,” and “A Study of Litera-
ture,” he addressed students and
faculty on “The Background of
Modern Literary Criticism.” Pro-
fessor Justin O’Brien of the French
department at Columbia Univer-
sity, was scheduled as the third sem-
inar speaker on March 2g, He was to
speak on the work of Gide.

On December 6, A. M. McNickel,
vice-president in charge of business
development and public relations
for the Fidelity Trust Company of
Pittsburgh, spoke to the Law and
Commerce schools on estate plan-
ning.

The third annual International
Relations Week was held February
4 through 7. Speakers were: Dr.
Edward H. Carr, noted British poli-
tical scientist, historian and author;
Dr. Robert J. Koblitz, associate pro-
fessor of political science at Bard
College, New York, a division of
Columbia University; and Dr. Mil-
ar Hapala, associate professor of
government and economics at Sweet
Briar College, and a native of
Czechoslovakia. ‘Their — subjects
were, respectively: “Bolshevism in
Asia”; “Soviet Influence in India’;
and ‘Recent Developments in Po-
land, Hungary, and Czechoslovak-
ia.” All three experts participated
in a round-table discussion on the
week’s theme, “Soviet Influence in
Asia and Eastern Europe.”

Christian Council speakers on

four Tuesday nights in February
and March were: Dr. Edward L.
Long, Jr., who opened the series
of discussions on “You in the Un1-
versity” on February 12, with the
subject, “Crisis in the University”;
Dr. Leland W. McCloud, associate
professor of commerce, who spoke
on February 26 on “The Christian
and the Social Mill of the Cam-
pus’; Dr. ‘Theodore A. Smedley,
professor of law, was to speak on
March 15 on “The University: A
Mental Maze”; and Dr. David W.
Sprunt, professor of religion, who
was to wind up the series by dis-
cussing “The Christian in the Uni-
versity: What Should He Do?”

# THE TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL
Southern Interscholastic Press <As-
sociation convention will be held at
the University on April 26 and 27.

Sponsored by the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation, the SIPA
event annually attracts nearly one
thousand prep and high school
students and faculty representatives
of student newspapers, magazines,
yearbooks, and radio programs in
14 states and the District of Colum-
bia.

Topflight communications  ex-
perts will conduct lectures, criti-
ques, short courses, and round-table
discussions on all phases of scho-
lastic publishing. Highlight of the
convention is the awarding of tro-
phies for outstanding student pub-
lications in the thirteen categories.

 

m FIVE WASHINGTON AND LEE Uni-
versity ROTC seniors were com-
missioned January 31, as they com-
pleted their graduation require-
ments at mid-term.

Lieutenant Colonel Charles E.
Coates, Jr., head of the college’s
Military Department, presented

Army reserve second leutenant’s
gold bars to Russell B. Myers,
Baltimore, Maryland; Richard H.
Hornaday, Washington, D.C,;
Guy H. Smith, Jr., Jacksonville,
Florida; Frank M. Guenther, Grosse
Pointe, Michigan; and Harold G.
Cummings, Jr., Washington, D.C.

m= THE GAINES GUARD, ROTC drill
team, participating in the annual
Veterans’ Day parade at Harrison-
burg, Virginia, on November 12,
won second prize among drill units
entered and received a $50 United
States Savings Bond.

 

g YEAR-END GIFTS AND BEQUESTS to
Washington and Lee University
totaled $421,637 President Francis
P. Gaines has announced.

He said the sum was in addition
to funds received through normal
channels, such as alumni and par-
ents’ funds and gifts from Virginia
business and industry through the
Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges and Universities.

Largest single gift was $289,535
from Mrs. Jessie Ball duPont of
Wilmington, Delaware, one of the
university's greatest benefactors. A
bequest of $70,000 from the estate
of the late Miss Emily Boyce Mc-
Kubin, of Howard County, Mary-
land, is also included in the total,
as is a grant of $25,000 from Gen-
eral Foods corporation.

Also received was a $20,000 gift
from an anonymous benefactor
and a $4,000 grant from the du Pont
Company to be used for strength-
ening teaching in chemistry and
allied fields.

A $2,000 gift from the Pure Oil
Company of Pensacola, Florida,
Inc., through the Sherrill O11 Com-
pany of Pensacola, Florida, was re-
ceived. A number of miscellaneous
gvifts also are included in the total.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

A WASHINGTON AND LEE Univer-

sity alumnus, stricken shortly after
graduation with multiple sclerosis,
has fulfilled a $500 pledge to his
alma mater made 30 years ago, be-
fore he fell victim to the crippling
disease.

With a letter to President Francis
P. Gaines recently, the alumnus
forwarded a check for $600, cover-
ing the pledge and “a part of the
interest.”

Dr. Gaines described the letter as
“one of the most moving I have
read” in his 26 years as Washington
and Lee’s president.

The alumnus, as a young man,
pledged $500 to a fund-raising cam-
paign around 1926. Shortly after, he
contracted the disease, and its treat-
ment sapped his financial resources
to the extent he was unable to meet
the pledge.

As the young man saw it, he was
still morally obligated to his uni-
versity, and he attempted to set
aside small amounts to meet this
need. ‘To aid him in this endeavor,
he took out a savings account in a
bank in the name of Washington
and Lee University, and as he could,
he made deposits.

By last month, the account had
swelled to slightly over $600, and
the dedicated alumnus, still af-
flicted with the disease, instructed
the bank to draw a check for $6co0
for forwarding to Washington and
Lee. His letter to President Gaines
said the account is still running in
the university’s behalf, and he will
continue to support the school
through deposits to its account.

His letter closed: “Next to my
family, Washington and Lee has

meant more to me than anything
else in my life.”

m JAMES H. PRICE, JR., °41, has re-
signed as associate alumni. secre-
tary, effective March 1, to take an
executive position with the Hopper

WINTER 1957

Paper Company of Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

Mr. Price came to Washington
and Lee in January, 1956, to assist
Alumni Secretary “Cy” Young. Be-
sides taking over a share of the
alumni association work, he as-
sumed the job of editor of the
Alumni Magazine.

Before moving to Lexington, he
had worked for the Hopper Paper
Company for ten years, and his last
year was sales representative in the
Baltimore, Maryland, area.

While a student at Washington
and Lee, he was a member of Phi
Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and
a president of the Interfraternity
Council. He was elected to member-
ship in Omicron Delta Kappa and
was selected for listing in “Who’s

 

Price leaving

Who Among Students in American
Colleges and Universities.” Dur-
ing World War II, he served for
four years with the U.S. Navy in
the Pacific, and was discharged
with the rank of leutenant com-
mander.

His wife is the former Miss Har-
riette Vaden of Richmond.

mH A NEW MEMBER OF the board of
trustees of Washington and Lee was
sworn in January 26, at the board’s

meeting in Washington, D. C. He is
John Minor Wisdom, °25, an at-
torney of New Orleans, Louisiana.
He was selected by the board last
summer to fill the position.

Mr. Wisdom is a member of the
law firm of Wisdom and Stone, and
has taught law at ‘Tulane Univer-
sity Law School.

While he was a student, he had
the distinction of completing every
English course in the Washington
and Lee curriculum in three years.
The 1925 Calyx called him “a fount
of Wisdom,” and said “ ‘Reading
maketh a full man,’ quoth the sapi-
ent Bacon...if John hasn’t read
it, the chances are mighty strong
against it ever having been writ-
ten.”

During World War II, he was
graduated in the first class of the
Army Air Forces Officers’ ‘Training
School at Miami in May, 1942.
‘Then he went to the Air Corps In-
telligence School and was assigned
to Air Corps Intelligence in Wash-
ington, D.C., until November,
1943. From then until the end of
the hostilities, he was legal advisor
on property disposal in the Legal
Branch of the Army Service Forces
in Washington.

He had a major part in establish-
ing the policies and writing regula-
tions during the formative stages
in the development of procedures
governing property disposal and
plant clearance. He was awarded
the Legion of Merit for outstanding
service, and was commended by the
Secretary of the Navy and the Com-
manding General of the Army Ser-
vice Forces.

He is a member of the New Or-
leans, Louisiana, and American Bar
Associations, and of the American
Law Institute. He is the father of
two children, a boy and a girl.

His Washington and Lee ties are
strong. A brother, William Bell
Wisdom, was graduated from the
University in 1921. His nephew,
William Bell Wisdom, Jr., is cur-
rently a student here.

 

 

@ THE ANNUAL TUCKER LECTURES will

be held on April 19 and 20, spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee
Law School. Dean F. D. C. Ribble
of the University of Virginia Law
School will deliver the lecture series
on the subject, “A Look at Policy-
Making Powers of the United States
Supreme Court.” TTwo of the lec-
tures will be given on the first day,
at noon and at 8 o’clock; the third
will take place at noon on April
20. The subject will be treated with
respect to Constitutional and Statu-
tory Interpretation in General, the
Commerce Clause and ‘Treatment
of the Individual.

Dean Ribble is well-versed in the
subject, having served with the U. S.
Department of State, UNESCO,
and having authored a book, “State
and National Power Over Com-
merce.”

~The Law School Alumni Associa-
tion meeting will be held on April
20 at 3:30 p.m. in the Moot Court
Room.

m THE STUDENT BAR ASSOCIATION has
announced an imposing array of
speakers for the spring semester, in-
cluding two United States legisla-
tors. Senator John L. McClellan of
Arkansas will address the associa-
tion in March, and Senator Sam J.
Ervin of North Carolina will speak
in April.

# NOEL C. COPEN of Huntington,
West Virginia, is serving as editor-
in-chief of the spring edition of the
Washington and Lee Law Review,
which will feature two leading ar-
ticles concerning the considerations
to be weighed by attorneys in per-
sonal injury litigation. Mr. J. A.
Gooch of Fort Worth, Texas, will
present the problem from the point
of view of defendant’s counsel, and
Mr. George Allen, Sr., of Richmond
will discuss it from plaintiffs side.

8

 

Presiding as judges for a Moot Court competition are: PROFESSOR WILFRED J. Ritz; DEAN
CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS; and PROFFSSOR CHARLES W. LAUGHLIN.

ORDERS FOR 30,000 copies of
the 1956 John Randolph ‘Tucker
Law Lectures at Washington and
Lee University have been placed
with the school’s Journalism Lab-
oratory Press.

‘The New York Stock Exchange
and the Ford Motor Company will
each receive 15,000 copies of the
three addresses made in Lee Chapel
last May 11-12 by William ‘I’. Gos-
sett, vice-president and_ general
counsel for the Ford Motor Com-
pany. Mr. Gossett’s lectures were the
eighth in the annual ‘Tucker series
and dealt with “Corporate Citizen-
ship and the Law.”

The lectures were printed in
pamphlet form approximately 64
pages in length. Dean Clayton E.
Williams expressed pleasure that
the 1956 lectures would receive such
wide distribution through the Stock
Exchange and the Ford Company.

@ FEBRUARY COMMENCEMENT e€xXe€Yr- ,

cises saw three Washington and Lee
men receive their Bachelor of Laws
degrees. They are: Phillip N. Dowd-
ing of Portsmouth, Virginia, now
practicing law in Newport News,

Virginia; J. Frank Shepherd of
Johnson City, ‘ennessee, now prac-
ticing in Lynchburg, Virginia; and
Robert N. McLean of Cumberland,
Maryland.

= ROBERT G. MC CULLOUGH, interme-
diate law student from Murfrees-
boro, ‘Tennesse, was elected presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee
Student Bar Association for the sec-
ond semester of the current school
year, succeeding senior John S.
Stump, of Clarksburg, West Vir-

ginia.
Other new officers are Robert L.
Rhea, Staunton, Virginia,  vice-

president; and Charles C. Rodri-
guez, Magnolia, Delaware, secre-
tary. Norman C. Roettger, Jr.,
Green Camp, Ohio, was re-elected
treasurer.

m DEAN CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS has an-
announced that any practicing at-
torneys who desire information re-
garding future Law School gradu-
ates may contact him, or the Chair-
man of the Student Bar Placement
Committee, and this information
will be supplied. In addition, since
requests are often received by the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

law school for names of attorneys
interested in job changes, Dean
Williams will be glad to hear from
graduates who wish their names
placed on a confidential list for re-
location. Give details of your ex-
perience since graduation.

 

ON FEBRUARY 26, it was announc-
ed that the board of trustees was
dismissing football coach Bill Chip-
ley, but asked him to stay on the
faculty as a member of the physical
education department. Chipley de-
clined and said he would leave at
the end of the school year in June.
No announcement has been made
as to his successor, and the status of
two assistant coaches is unchanged.

WASHINGTON AND LEE’S non-subsi-
dized football team will play a sev-
en game schedule next fall. Four
home games are scheduled for Wil-
son Field, with November 2 desig-
nated as Homecoming Day.

Davidson was dropped and Ran-
dolph-Macon and Wittenberg will
be met instead of West Virginia
‘Tech and Southwestern. ‘The Gen-
erals haven't played Randolph-Ma-
con since 1930. Washington Univer-
sity of St. Louis, Missouri, the na-
tion’s number one “simon pure”
eleven will play in Lexington No-
vember 23, 1957.

The schedule: October 5, Centre
College, Lexington; October 12,
open; October 19, Randolph-Ma-
con at Ashland; October 26, Witten-
berg, Lexington; November 2, Wa-
bash, Lexington; November 9, Se-
wanee at Sewanee; November 16,
Hampden-Sydney, at Hampden-
Sydney; November 23, Washington
at Lexington.

m FOR THE UNIVERSITY, this was
almost the last of subsidized basket-
ball, as three of the five team regu-
lars, granted athletic aid in 1953,

WINTER 1957

were playing their last season of
ball. And although all team mem-
bers played well, two racked up
scoring records that will be hard to
beat.

As the magazine went to press in
late February, the record was 14
games won, four lost. Victories were
scored over William and Mary,
Richmond, Hampden-Sydney, Vir-

 

Upper photo, team members BARKLEY SMITH, guard; LEE MARSHALL, center, FRANK Hoss,
forward; BARRY STorIcK, forward; Dom FLora, guard, listening to words of advice from
Coach Birt McCann; lower photo, LEE MArsHALL and Dom FLora tussle over possession
of the ball, as they rack up an astounding record of points for Washington and Lee.

9

 

 

Tt isn’t Superman soaring through the air,
but diver CHARLIE RICHARDSON.

ginia, George Washington, Colum-

bia, Pennsylvania, ‘he Citadel, |

Presbyterian, Johns Hopkins, Dav-
idson, and Kentucky Wesleyan.
Losses were to Virginia Polytechnic,
Kentucky, West Virginia, and La-
fayette. The cagers took second
place in the Southern Conference.

Writing a brilliant finish to a fine
cage career at Washington and Lee
is six-foot-five center, Lee Marshall,
who has 24.1 points per game so far.
His teammate, Dom Flora, who has
one more year of competition, has
scored 19.9 points per game. With
both boys hitting the basket so
often, the Generals have been hard
to beat, and, at presstime, had 1381
points to opponents’ 1247, a very
respectable record in any man’s
league. Marshall has an ambidex-
trous perfect hook shot, and is at
his best operating on a close pivot
against a man-to-man defense. But,
if the situation demanded it, he
could move to a high pivot without
any sacrifice of scoring potential,
and against a zone, his deadly long
range jump shot ranked him as the
team’s best outside shooter. His
most successful night of the season
came against William and Mary
when he rang in 36 points to pace
a 79-72 win. Flora’s best shots are

10

his jump from around foul circle
range, and a deceptive drive and
lay-up combination.

Cy Twombly, who for the past 35
years has coached General swim-
mers into the University’s winning-
est sport, was hoping to make his
biggest splash in 15 years this sea-
son. A veteran team of swimmers
and divers back from last year, plus
some stellar freshmen, gave the
squad much-needed depth.

Some champions helped out. Co-
captain Jay Fox was 1955 Southern
Conference breast stroke champ,
and Charlie Richardson was Big Six
diving champ, although his pool
record of 188 points here was shat-
tered early in the year by freshman
Art Blank.

The tankmen_ fulfilled coach
‘Twombly’s hopes and came up with
a dual meet season marred by only
one loss, to V. P. I., an institution
which is stacked in all sports these
days. Very few of the Generals’ vic-
tories were close—most were taken

by lopsided scores. Washington and

 

Art BLANK holds the pool diving record
with 197 points.

Lee beat Roanoke college 70-16;
Virginia by 72-14; Maryland by
61-25; Lynchburg college by 76-8;
Catholic University by 50-36; Wil-
liam and Mary by 59-27; and

(Continued on page 24)

 

A winning season: Coach Cy Twomsty’s tank stars at Doremus Gymnasium pool.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

An Announcement to Alumni

About Tuition

N JANUARY 26 THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES of this

University met to consider many matters of
great importance to the present and future of
Washington and Lee. Indeed, I know of no meet-
ing in recent years that has had on its agenda more
items of especial significance. One of these items,
that of the University’s tuition charges, I should
like to discuss with you.

The Board voted to increase tuition by $50 per
semester, effective in September 1957, and by an
additional $50 per semester, effective in September
1958. It did so only after careful study and deliber-
ation by a special committee of the Faculty, by the
Steering Committee for University Development, on
which sit all of my administrative colleagues, and
by the Board itself.

The Board was not, however, unmindful of the
fact that a tuition increase, if not compensated for
in other ways, might impose a hardship on the par-
ents of some of our present students. To alleviate
any such hardship, it voted also to provide financial
aid of two types.

First, any student currently holding a scholar-
ship who earns the right to retain that scholarship
for another year or longer, will have the stipend of
his award increased by an amount equivalent to the
increase in tuition.

Second, any student who does not hold a schol-
arship and who can show clearly that the tuition
increase creates a hardship in his case, will be eli-
gible to apply for a grant-in-aid equal to the amount
of the increase. The procedure through which a
student can apply for such a grant-in-aid will be
announced in the near future.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALWAys has endeavored
to keep its tuition charges as low as possible so
that educational opportunity would not be denied to
deserving young men for lack of sufficient economic

WINTER 1957

resources. In this effort we have succeeded reason-
ably well, despite the fact that costs have increased
more rapidly than tuition income.

It is worth noting, I believe, that over the past

two decades tuition has defrayed a_ progressively

smaller portion of the University’s annual operating
expenses. For twelve years from 1930 to 1941, for ex-
ample, income from this source covered an average
of 63 per cent of the total annual operating costs of
the University. During 1955-56 tuition income de-
frayed but 53 per cent of the University’s operating
costs, and during the current year it is estimated
that it will meet only about 49 per cent of our ex-
penses. ‘he tuition increase that has béen voted,
when it has become fully effective, will increase this
proportion only to about 61 per cent.

The chief reason for having been able to delay
or minimize tuition increases during the past dec-
ade lies in the fact that voluntary giving to the
University has provided the essential measure of
relief against spiraling costs. The Bicentennial
Campaign of 1949, the bequest of Mrs. Letitia Pate
Evans, the grant of the Ford Foundation, and the
generous gifts of others have increased our endow-

ment resources. And during the past few years, vol-

untary support through annual giving has grown
appreciably: the Alumni Fund has more than
doubled, the Parents’ Fund has come into being as a
senificant force, and corporate support on an annual
basis has grown considerably. The generosity of
many persons, then, has enabled us to delay the
inevitable day when this tuition increase would
have to be effected, and to delay it for a longer time
than most of our sister institutions have been able
to do.

LET ME SAY RIGHT HERE that we shall continue
to depend on such generosity to help sustain, as it
now does, our program of educational services. We

(Turn to page 21)

11

 

—

 

   

 

 

2

An overall vicw of the Festival park shows the

Ceremonial Mall, the parking lots, the Visitor’s

Center, the 1957 Memorial Tower, other build-

ings, and over near the river, the reconstructed

Fort of 1607 and anchored in the James River,
the three reconstructed ships.

lamestown’s 350th

Anniversary

N 1607, THREE SMALL ships dis-

charged a group of English set-
tlers on a wooded island in Vir-
ginia’s majestic James River, and
the first permanent English settle-
ment in the New World was begun.

Now, 350 years later, the anni-
versary of that historical event is
being celebrated at Jamestown,
with predictions of more than

12

2,500,000 visitors this year to the and, in a sense, celebrating the
shrine. Virginia has set up the Vir- — 350th birthday of the new nation
ginia 350th Anniversary Commis- — that is the United States of Amer-
sion, which has been hard at work ica.

for the past several years, planning Jamestown Festival Park,  situ-
and building a $1,500,000 James- ated at the one entrance to James-
town Festival Park to take care of town Island, comprises about thir-
the needs of the tourists who will — ty acres, and contains an imposing
be visiting the site of the first suc- array of modern buildings on a
cessful overseas colony of England, ceremonial mall. Included will be

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

the Old World Pavilion, housing
an elaborate exhibition depicting
the evolution of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations and the
spread of English-speaking civiliza-
tion from the colony at Jamestown;
also a New World Pavilion, where
Virginia will present an exhibition
of its role in the nation’s founding.

Other features are Powhatan’s
Lodge, a typical “long house” or
chieftain’s house of the Algonquin
Indians, the reconstructed Fort of
1607, the Glasshouse of 1608, a re-
production of the colonists’ first
industry. ‘Three full-scale floating
replicas of the Susan Constant,
Godspeed, and Discovery, the ships
which brought the settlers to Vir-
ginia after a five-month’s voyage,
will be anchored near the Fort. A
troop of “soldiers,” dressed in uni-
forms of the early part of the seven-
teenth century, will drill with pikes
and matchlock muskets each day at
the Festival.

The entire project, due for com-
pletion by March first, will be open
to the public on April first. The
Festival will run until November

39, 1957:

With such a tremendous project
underway, literally thousands of
Virginians have worked, planned
and given of time and money to in-
sure the success of the Festival.
Probably no two, however, have
done as much as a pair of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni. Lewis A.
McMurran, Jr., °36, of Newport
News, Virginia, is chairman of the
Virginia 350th Anniversary Com-
mittee, and Parke Rouse, Jr., ’39,
of nearby Williamsburg, Virginia,
is executive director of the commis-
sion. Both these men have served
long and well, and the success of the
venture depends in a large measure
on them.

Lewis has served in the Virginia

niversary, which proposed the Fes-
tival. He is vice-chairman of the
Peninsula Industrial Committee;
vice-president of the Peninsula As-
sociation of Commerce; secretary-
treasurer and director of the Citi-
zens’ Rapid Transit Company of
Newport News, Hampton, and
Warwick; and secretary and direc-
tor of the Bank of Warwick, Vir-
ginia.

Parke was formerly editorial
writer and Sunday editor for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch; direc-
tor of public relations for the
Virginia State Chamber of Com-
merce; and since 1951, has been di-
rector of publications and assistant
to the executive vice-president of
Colonial Wilhamsburg. He _ has
been on leave from this. position
since August 1, 1954, to,serve as
director of the Jamestown com-
mission. He is the author of: ““The
City That ‘Turned Back ‘Time’;
“They Gave Us Freedom”; “Wu-
liamsburg in Color’; and “The
Colonial Printer.”

Federal participation in the cele-
bration was authorized by a 1953
act of Congress, and a number of
prominent Americans are serving
on the federal commission. Its
contribution has been in financing
archeological work by the National
Park Service on Jamestown Island,
in construction of roads and bridges
to the Festival Park area, and the
operation of museums and _histori-
cal centers of interest there. ‘The
beautiful Colonial Parkway has
been extended at a cost of around
$4,000,000 from Williamsburg to
a terminus on Jamestown Island.

A new Paul Green play, “The
Founders” will be shown in an
outdoor theater daily during the
Festival, and special events are
planned during the tourist-heavy
warm months. One highlight will
be an International Naval Review
on June 17, with 25 foreign nations
joining the United States in dis-
playing their naval might. About
25,000 foreign sailors will partici-
pate in the spectacle.

 

Legislature continuously since 1948.
He sponsored the Hampton Roads
Bridge-Tunnel Act, and the interim
commission on the Jamestown An-

Discussing plans for the Festival, opening April 1, are Ropert V. HATCHER of Richmond,
chairman of the Jamestown-Williamsburg-Yorktown National Celebration Commission;
Lewis A. MCMurRRAN, JR., chairman of the state commission; and PARKE ROUSE, executive
director. Standing is state senator LLtoyp C. Birp of Chesterfield. Mr. Rouse spoke to the
Washington and Lee student body on February 26 about the Festival.

WINTER 1957 13

 

—

 

Trustees Reafhrm

Athletic Policy

ie WASHINGTON AND LEE Univer-

sity Board of ‘Trustees has re-
affirmed its position in opposition
to athletic scholarships, despite let-
ters from alumni and students call-
ing for a program of at least limit-
ed athletic subsidization.

At the board meeting held in
Washington on January 26, the
trustees issued this statement: “The
board considered carefully a com-
munication from students and other
friends concerning intercollegiate
athletics and reaffirmed its present
position. There was no sentiment
in the board for a change in the
present policy.

“The board recognized the im-
portance of a good sports program
in college education and assures its
friends that there is no discrimina-
tion against athletes who meet aca-
demic standards in either admission
or scholarship grants.

“Convinced that the dedicated
purpose of Washington and Lee is
to provide intellectual and moral
training for gifted boys, the board
feels that financial inducement for
athletic ability only would not con-
tribute to that purpose.”

The board also decided to let
football coach W. A. Chipley go,
but said he could remain as physical
education instructor.

14

Washington and Lee’s athletic
policy had been brought under
fire in an open forum on November
30, sponsored by the Executive
Committee to determine student
feeling. About 300 people attended.

An eight-member panel which
discussed pros and cons of the two-
year-old controversial policy was
composed of: President Francis P.
Gaines, Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh,
dean of the University; Frank J].
Gilliam, dean of students; Dr. Wil-
liam M. Hinton, chairman of the
committee on intercollegiate ath-
letics; Peyton Winfree, ’35, execu-
tive editor of the News and Daily
Advance of Lynchburg, Virginia;
and law students Noel P. Copen,
Huntington, West Virginia; Joseph
A. Amato, Jr., Manhasset, New
York; and John S. Stump, Clarks-
burg, West Virginia. Student Body
President Robert I. Peeples of
Houston, Texas, was moderator.

Dr. Gaines began with an ex-
planation of the present program
and review of past Washington and
Lee athletic policies and their re-
sults. Commenting on the Board of
Trustees’ decision to end athletic
subsidization in 1954, he said,
“What we want are sports for stu-
dents, not students for sports. It is
the best system we know. Let the

boy choose the college, then the
sport. Our intention is to serve the
boy in fullness of character—the boy
who wants to come, not the boy
who is employed to come.”

To continue in subsidized ath-
letics in 1954 would have meant
that athletic scholarships would
have had to be doubled, from 50
to 100, and college entrance exam-
inations eliminated, he declared.

“The Board of Trustees decided
it didn’t want two classes of stu-
dents. All forms of subsidy were
dropped.”

Other faculty speakers followed
Dr. Gaines in a similar vein.

Leading the opposing faction was
Mr. Winfree, who assailed the pres-
ent athletic policy as “unrealistic
regulations laid down by the Board
of Trustees. I have never known
football to retard academic pro-
gress,” he continued “It brings sub-
stantial gains to the university and
serves as a rallying force for the
student body.”

He opined that alumni would
prefer that Washington and Lee
drop football althogether, rather
than continue the present system.

His personal plan for revamping
the university’s gridiron squad ad-
vocates the issuing of 25 to 50 ath-
letic scholarships to athletes who

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

meet academic requirements and
show definite need for financial as-
sistance. If any athlete were unable
to keep up academic obligations,
he could drop athletics without
losing his scholarship. ‘Tutoring
would be offered to help the ath-
lete in his studies.

The subsidization question in-
volves only two sports at Washing-
ton and Lee—football and _ basket-
ball. For two seasons the Generals’
football team has been virtually
‘simon pure” and its lack of suc-
cess — one victory in fourteen
games—caused a renewal of de-
mands by student and alumni to
return to the old program, or some
form of it. The basketball team is
still largely subsidized, with seven
students on athletic grants given
in 1953 and 1954. Teams in ten
other intercollegiate sports have no
athletic scholarships.

‘Three weeks after the meeting, on
December 20, the Executive Com-
mittee and Interfraternity Council
proposed that Washington and Lee
should return to a limited athletic
subsidization program.

In letters sent to members of the
Board of ‘Trustees and President
Gaines, the two campus organiza-
tions proposed a three-point plank:

1. The awarding of athletic
scholarships to not more than 50
students, with the provision that
these students meet all the Uni-
versity’s regular entrance and
scholastic requirements.

2. ‘These scholarships will be
given only to those who show f-
nancial need and the administra-
tion of the scholarships will be by
a faculty committee.

3. Fraternities will contribute to
the financing of the program by
affording some of these students on
athletic scholarships free board.

‘The purpose of the program, as
outlined in the letter, is to provide
for a more well-rounded student
program by boosting school spirit
and interest in intercollegiate ath-
letics and by raising the quality of

WINTER 1957

General athletic teams so as to en-
able these teams to make more rep-
resentative showings against the
university’s natural rivals.

For the purposes of the study, the
two groups considered the school’s
natural rivals as those schools in
this geographical area which had
comparable aims, prestige, student
bodies, and athletic polices.

A portion of the letter sent to
the board is as follows:

“We feel that your action in
abolishing athletic scholarships was
proper and necessary for the wel-
fare of the University at the time.
However, as a result, during the
three succeeding years there has
been evidenced a general weaken-
ing in school spirit as well as a loss
of enthusiasm in the intercollegiate
athletic program of the University.
We, therefore, respectfully submit
the following proposal as an em-
bodiment of the views of the large
majority of the Student Body, in
the belief that it will improve our
intercollegiate athletic program and

will enable us to compete in all

intercollegiate athletics with our
natural rivals on an equal basis.

“1. That there be awarded aid
to a limited number of students
that show athletic ability. “This
number shall not exceed fifty and
no recipient shall be afforded the
slightest special considerations rel-
ative to entrance requirements or
other scholastic favors.

“9. That aid be given only when
need is apparent, and that it be ad-
ministered by a committee com-
posed of representatives of the ath-
letic department and faculty, ap-
pointed by the administration.

“9. That the fraternities be al-
low to assist in this endeavor by
affording board to some athletes.
Fourteen out of seventeen fraterni-
ties have offered board or the equi-
valent, to one athlete per year.

“We therefore conclude that it
is the consensus of student opinion
that the welfare of the University

has been affected, as exhibited by
the lack of school spirit and a gen-
eral disinterest in our athletic pro-
gram and university functions on
the part of the students. And fur-
ther, that by meeting our natural
rivals on a more equal basis in all
sports and raising to a higher level
the contributions of athletics,
Washington and Lee will afford
its students a more well-rounded
program. For these reasons we sin-
cerely hope that you will carefully
consider this report.”

Also submitted to the board for
its consideration was a resolution
from the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees,
which read as follows:

“WHEREAS:

“1. The current athletic policy of
the University is the subject of con-
cern and controversy among alum-
ni, students, and faculty members,
some of whom consider recent rec-
ords of our athletic teams in inter-
collegiate competition inconsistent
with traditional relationship —be-
tween academic and athletic rival-
ries; and whereas:

“2. The Alumni Board is aware of
the considerable problems of the
Administration in this connection
and looks forward to a reconcilia-
tion of divergent viewpoints for the
ultimate well-being of the Univer-
sity;

“Resolved, therefore, that it is
the sense of the Alumni Board
that the athletic policy of the
University should be carefully re-
viewed by the appropriate Univer-
sity authorities with the advice of
authorized representatives of alum-
ni, students and faculty members,
and that. the resulting conclusions
should be reported in writing to
the University Board, the Alumni
Board, the Executive Committee of
the Student Body and the Faculty
Committee on Athletics; and

“Resolved further, that a copy
of this resolution be forwarded
to the Secretary of the University
Board for the information and con-
sideration of that Board.”

15

 

EARL STANSBURY MATTINGLY, longtime Washing-
ton and Lee treasurer, and most eligible bachelor.
A graduate of the class of 1925, he was registrar
for twenty years, and has been in charge of col-
lege finances for seventeen years. A familiar sight
to all students and ex-students, he has a fabulous
and much discussed memory for names and faces.

 

Campus

CHARLES Ric—E McDOowELL, professor of law, is completing his thirtieth year at
Washington and Lee. He is the author of a book about boyhood reminiscences in
Danville, Kentucky, “The Iron Baby Angel,’ and has a wide streak of humor.

16

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

| Personalities

 

Rupert Netson Latrure, professor of political
science, now in his thirty-seventh year at Wash-
ington and Lee. A good Presbyterian, he loves his
fellowman. He is one of the national founders vf
Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fra-
ternity. He has endeared himself to foreign stu-
dents, and has tried to make them feel at home.

 

HENRY VOGEL SHELLEY, professor of ancient languages. Erudite and polished, he ts
an accomplished musician and used to play a sharp game of tennis. He has taught
at Washington and Lee for thirty years, and duPont Hall is his headquarters.

WINTER 1957 17

 

 

 

 

Spelunking Is Fun

EOLOGY STUDENTS AT Washing-
(5 ton and Lee have proved that
the phrase, “getting down to earth”
is something more than a wisecrack
for boys in their first-year introduc-
tory course.

In fact, they get down into the
earth on one occasion, and it’s a
long remembered event for the 140-
odd boys who make up the “spe-
lunking”’ field trip each year.

Since before the turn of the cen-
tury, Washington and Lee students
in geology have been visiting Cave
Spring Cave, a small but classically
formed limestone cavern a mile and
a half from the campus. ‘The trip is
one of a series of four field excur-
sions first-year geology men make
into the Rockbridge County coun-
try-side, and it is by far the most
spectacular.

For the past several years, Dr.
Troy Laswell, associate professor
of geology, has been leading four
classes annually down the narrow
crack in the earth’s surface that
marks the cave entrance. Before
him, other Washington and Lee
professors conducted the trip, in-
cluding Dr. Marcellus Stow, now
head of the department and “ex-
plorer” of Cave Spring Cave.

In all, Dr. Stow figures over 3,000
students have visited the cave dur-

ing his 30 years at the university as.

a part of the regular geological
study, and probably many others
have explored its passages on their
own. He says no known record ex-

18

ists of its discovery, and its geo-
logical age can be numbered in
the tens of thousands years.

As Shenandoah Valley lmestone
caverns run, the Cave Spring Cave
is a baby. From its entrance on a
wooded hillside, the main passage
extends for some quarter of a mile,
and varies from 30 to 100 feet be-
neath the surface. Numerous small
passages lead off from the main
stem in many directions, sometimes
rejoining the larger cave, more
often becoming small and impas-
sible after short distances.

Purpose of the underground visit
by the students is to demonstrate
the action of water beneath the
earth’s top-soil surface. Enroute to
the cave with his class, Dr. Laswell
holds several short lectures, explain-
ing the occurrence of the numerous
sinkholes in the immediate area and
how the action of rain water seep-
ing into the earth chemically eats
away the limestone deposits.

Previous classroom discussions
come alive vividly during the field
trip. Students take copious notes,
even in the cave, where a “buddy
system” 1s employed by which one
student writes while another holds
a flashlight.

At the cave, Dr. Laswell appoints
a student anchor man to be the
last one in, and then leads the des-
cent into the fissure, described by
the profesor as an “enlarged joint
plane.” Once through a narrow
circular collar just inside the cave,

students find themselves in a tall,
narrow passage that slopes down-
ward at a 45-degree angle.

The footing 1s muddy and slip-
pery, and the walls are wet. Old
clothes are a must for the cave trip.

After descending some 30 to 40
feet, the passage takes an abrupt
right angle turn, levels off and con-
tinues for some 20 feet more be-
fore turning sharply left and open-
ing into a large “room.” ‘The room’s
floor slants downward toward the
far wall where the cavern divides
into three distinct passages, all of
which meet further on. The des-
cent usually takes about five min-
utes for the 35 boys on each field
trip.

When the anchor man is down,
Dr. Laswell begins his main lecture,
the students seated theater-like on
the sloping floor with Dr. Laswell
seated on a rock formation at the
confluence of the three passages.

There is at least one light for
every two persons, and Dr. Laswell
points up the utter darkness by
having the students extinguish
their flashlights for a brief moment.
‘Then he proceeds with his instruc-
tion.

By the time he has finished the
45-minute talk, students have learn-
ed of the cave’s history, some do’s
and don’ts of spelunking, what
causes stalactites and stalagmites,
and the importance of sub-surface
water to life on the earth’s surface.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Dr. Laswell tries to keep the class
below no longer than 45 minutes,
for the dampness and year-round
constant 54-degree temperature get
chilly.

In the years of using the under-
ground classroom, no one has been
hurt or lost during the field trip.
The classes are briefed thoroughly
on what to expect and how to be-
have, and Dr. Laswell, with a com-
panion, checks the cave annually
before taking the classes below.

But in spite of the precautions,
some students have ventured into
the cave on their own and _ have
been unable to make their way out
again. This, Dr. Stow relates, hap-
pened once shortly after World War
II, when a party of four lost their
flashlight in the cave floor and were
unable to make the surface before
their carbide light exhausted its fuel
supply.

When the four failed to show up
for class the next day, another
group of students which had been
in the cave at the same time, but
had had no trouble, informed Dr.
Stow. A search party was organized
with Dr. Stow in charge.

The rescue group had no difhicul-
ty in locating the stranded explor-
ers, who had wisely remained in
their relatively dry location and
simply waited for someone to come
and get them.

“They were lost as far as they
were concerned,” says Dr. Stow,
“but it would have been hard to
miss finding them. Sort of like they
were in the middle of Main Street
blindfolded.”

Dr. Stow adds that had the stu-
dents attempted to reach the exit
in the dark there could have been
tragic results in the inky _ black-
ness. With adequate light, the cave
is quite safe, but in the dark its
sharp inclines and low overhangs
become very dangerous, he points
out.

One member of the lost party
stayed on for summer school thay
year, Dr. Stow recalls, and volun-

WINTER 1957

 

Classes below the earth are a real novelty to the geology students of Washington and Lee.

teered to lead a group of non-
geology students into the cave to
show where he had been lost be-
fore. Sure enough, they stayed too
long, ran out of light and had to
sit down and wait for help to come.

Since Dr. Stow was away for the
summer, it fell to the Lexington
Rescue Squad to recover the lost ex-
plorers.

Dr. Stow has been over virtually
every passable foot of Cave Spring
Cave, which gets its name from the
belief that it is the source of a
spring which opens on the Maury
River north of Lexington. Dr. Stow
says he has been unable to follow
the cave’s stream to its opening,
but it runs in the general direction
of the spring.

 

Secretary upon request.

 

Amendment Proposed to By-laws

The Annual Meeting of the members of The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Alumni, Incorporated, will be held at Lexington, Virginia, in the

University’s Washington Chapel at 2:00 p.m., June 6, 1957.

At the meeting a proposed amendment to the Articles of Incorporation
will be submitted for action by the membership. The proposal, which was
approved by resolution of the Board of Trustees adopted at a meeting held
in Lexington on November 10, 1956, would amend Section (h) of the Articles
to provide, in substance that (1) The minimum number required for a quorum
at any meeting shall be increased from the present requirement of 7 to 20;
(2) Vacancies on the Board of Trustees arising by reason of expiration of term
shall be filled by election at the Annual Meeting, the members voting in per-
son and not by proxy; (3) Nominations for such vacancies shall be made by
a nominating committee (as presently provided for in the By-laws) and members
shall be notified of such nominations by mail or by publication in the Alumni
Magazine, provided, however, that nominations may also be made from the floor.

Copies of the proposed amendment will be supplied to members by the

 

 

1g

 

<—

 

 

20

 

Beta Celebrates
One Hundredth

Annivers ary

Beta ‘Theta Pi, Washington and
Lee’s second oldest social fraternity,
celebrated its one hundredth anni-
versary on campus November 49,
1956, with many distinguished
guests present. A cocktail party, and
a banquet at the Mayflower Hotel
were the highlights of the day.

Fred Vinson, Jr., °48, a former
student body president, of Wash-
ington, D.C., was toastmaster.

Among the guests were President
Francis P. Gaines, Dean Leon F.
Sensabaugh and Dean of Students
Frank J. Gilliam. Mrs. Davis Mar-
tin, housemother for the past ten
years, was presented a_ television
set and an engraved silver bowl
by the chapter.

Upper left, distinguished Beta guests are,
left to right: IRWIN WENSINK, Washington,
D. C., district chief; DR. DANEL BLAINE, ’20,
Washington, D.C., Russeti Lapp, presi-
dent of the local chapter; BERTRAM BEN-
NETT, Chicago, national president; and
FRED VINSON, JR., 48. Top right, Mrs. Mar-
TIN receives her gift from MR. VINSON; cen-
ter, chapter president thanks parents and
alumni who gave the new kitchen at the
Beta house; bottom, scene at the banquet.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Ten Men Pass
Virginia Bar Exam

H NINE SENIOR LAW students and one
law school alumnus passed the Vir-
ginia bar examination given in
Richmond in December.

They are: Robert R. Huntley,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
Gerald W. Smiley, Long Island
City, New York; ‘Thomas C.
Broyles, Culpeper, Virginia; Sam-
uel L. Davidson, Washington,
D.C.; Robert N. McLean, Cum-
berland, Maryland.

Also, Lacey E. Putney, Big  Is-
land, Virginia; Stephen M. Quil-
lan, Lebanon, Virginia; J. Frank
Shepherd, Johnson City, ‘Tennes-
see; Philip L. Stanley, Staunton,
Virginia; and Chris Compton
(LL.B. 1953).

 

 

Name Your Candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the Nom-
inating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws any member of the Association may submit
the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees and for the alumni representatives on the University
Athletic Committee.

There are two vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
Trustees, and two on the Athletic Committee at the June, 1957,
meeting of the Alumni Association. Members of the Association
are urged to submit names of their candidates for these offices.
The Nominating Committee will close its report on May 15.

The Committee is as follows: Wiliam B. Hopkins, chair-
man, Boxley Building, Roanoke, Virginia; T. B. Bryant, Jr.,
Orangeburg, South Carolina; and Houston Minniece, care of F. W.
Williams State Agency, Meridian, Mississippi.

 

 

© OOO OOS OOOH OOOO OOOOH SFOS OOODHOHDETHHHOSGHGHHHGHHHHTHHOHHHOHOS OOOOH HHOHTOHOHHOTHOSOLS

 

An Announcement About Tuition

(Continued from page 11)

shall need the additional income we derive from
tuition to strengthen that program and to assure
its continued strength and growth during the critical
years ahead.

I need not tell you that an educational institu-
tion is no better than its teachers, and that to pro-
vide the best teachers we must offer salaries com-
mensurate with their special talents. We pride our-
selves on the faculty members we now have, but we
know full-well that, despite the additional compen-
sation we have been able to offer them in recent
years, their real income today is less than it was two
decades ago. We know, also, that their compensation
is markedly inadequate when measured against the
contribution they make to the young men who come
under their tutelage and, through those young
men, to our society. Moreover, we know that the
best of teachers already are in scarce supply and
great demand, and that it will become progressive-
ly more difficult in the years ahead to command
and hold their services. A major purpose of this
tuition increase is to help assure the very best in-
struction for those who seek their education at
Washington and Lee.

Beyond the need for more funds for faculty sal-

WINTER 1957

aries, there is the necessity to augment scholarship
aid, and to meet more adequately the ever press-
ing needs for more funds for general operating
purposes. Our library, in many respects the very
heart of this University, is urgently in need of new
financial resources with which to offset the increased
costs of its operations and to expand its holdings.
Most of our teaching departments have felt this
same pressure and have found it difficult to supply
the necessary materials and equipment with which
to carry on their instruction most effectively. The
maintenance of our buildings and grounds similarly
has been subjected to these ascending costs.

‘THESE ARE SOME OF THE MAJOR considerations
which make a tuition increase at this time essential.
The Board of Trustees and those of us on the Fac-
ulty and Administration are very anxious for you
to know and understand them. I hope that I have
answered many of the questions that may arise in
your minds. And I trust that wherein I have failed
to do so, you will feel perfectly free to write me.

Sincerely yours,

Teenie: hone

FRANCIS P. GAINEs, President

21

 

CHAPTER

 

Officers of the Augusta-Rockingham chapter are shewn at the cnnual dinner meeting in Harrisonburg, Virginia. They are, left to right:

Juttus B. StompBock, 41, Waynesboro, vice-president; FRED O. FUNKHOUSER, °34, retiring president, Harrisonburg; W. J. DRIVER, ‘25,

Lexington, speaker; RicHARD W. SMITH, ’41, Staunton, new president; RIcHARD T. SLOAN, 42, Harrisonburg, vice-president; JAMES H.
Price, JR., 41, Lexington, associate secretary of the Alumni Association; WILLIAM B. GUNN, '42 Harrisonburg, retiring secretary.

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM

A meeting of the group was held
on November 2, 1956, at Belle
Meade Hotel in Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia. Cocktails were served at 6:30
p-m. and dinner at 7:30 p.m. W. J.
Driver of Lexington, elected to the
Athletic Council last June, was
guest speaker, and James H. Price,
Jv., assistant secretary of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Associa-
tion, brought greetings.

New officers elected were: presi-
dent, Richard W. Smith, ’41, Staun-
ton; vice-presidents, Richard  T.
Sloan, °42, Harrisonburg, and Jul-
ius B. Stombock, ’41, Waynesboro;
and Frank L. Summers, Jr., 52,
Staunton, secretary. About 65 at-
tended the meeting.

NORFOLK

A reorganizational meeting of
the Norfolk alumni was held on
December 3, 1956, and new officers

22

were elected. ‘They are: John King
Boardman, Jr., 751, president;
Thomas Willcox Joynes, Jr., ‘52,
vice-president; Samuel Isaac White,
50, secretary; and Richard Harrison
Lipscomb, ’50, treasurer.

PHILADELPHIA

‘The Drake Hotel in Philadelphia
was the scene of an alumni lunch-
eon on December 27, 1956. About
40 persons, including university
students, their parents and _ local
prep and high school prospects,
were present, and heard a talk by
Jim Price.

BALTIMORE

A dinner dance of the Baltimore
chapter was held on Saturday night,
October 247, at the L’Hirondelle
Country Club, Ruxton, from 7 p.m.
until 12:30 p.m.

Representing Washington and
Lee University were H. K. Young,

state

vice-president

alumni secretary; Dr. Walter Flick,
professor of psychology and educa-
tion; and Eugene F. Corrigan, phy-
sical education instructor.

About 75 persons attended.

NEW YORK

Clark B. Winter, ’37, was elected
to a second term as president of the
Washington and Lee New York
Alumni Association at that group’s
annual meeting held November 20,
1956, at the Princeton Club.

Other officers named were W. L.
Webster, “12, vice-president (up-
New York); Leonard  T.
Brown, ’19, vice-president (Connec-
ticut); Robert E. Steele, III, ’41,
(New York City);
Stephen E. Campbell, Jr., ’41, vice-
president (Long Island); Emerson
Dickman, Jr., °37 vice-president
(New Jersey); and Emmett W. Poin-
dexter, "20, secretary-treasurer.

Elected as council members for

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

terms expiring in 1959 were E.
Stewart Eppley, ‘49; Charles R.
Hart, 39, and R. Leigh Smith, Jr.,
49: |

More than 50 alumni attended,
and heard an address by Dr. Leon
F. Sensabaugh, Dean of the Univer-
sity. Dr. Sensabaugh discussed at
length the knotty problems the
University faces in considering an
expansion program.

In a business session preceding
Dr. Sensabaugh’s address, the or-
ganization approved several changes
in the set-up of the New York
Alumni Association Permanent En-
dowment Fund.

‘The Fund was established in
1940 to provide an annual scholar-
ship to a New York man, prefer-
ably the son of a deceased alumnus.
It was contemplated that the schol-
arship would be awarded after the
Fund had totaled $25,000.

The resolution establishing the
Fund was amended to establish the
scholarship after the fund totals
$10,000. Also, the Fund was official-
ly named the “ John W. Davis
Memorial Scholarship of the New
York Alumni Association.”

These changes were made on
recommendation of a committee
headed by Hugh Bonino, ’36, which
was appointed last year to study
possible changes in the handling of
the Fund.

During the course of the meet-
ing Bonino presented the Associa-
tion with a silver golf trophy to be
awarded to the winner of the As-
sociation’s annual golf tournament.
The trophy was presented in mem-
ory of Archie Mathis, former Wash-
ington and Lee wrestling coach and
close friend of Bonino’s.

Winter announced the appoint-
ment of a planning and program
committee composed of Dickman,
Steele, and Joseph B. Martin, ’49.

CLEVELAND

‘Twenty-two persons enjoyed a
dinner meeting on November 29,
1956, at the University Club in

WINTER 1957

Cleveland, and elected officers for
1957. Uhey are: president, Roy D.
Prentiss, °44; secretary, James D.
Bonebrake, ’54; and treasurer, Hal-
lett R. Gates, Jr., °48.

Donald E. Smith, development
director of Washington and Lee,
was guest speaker.

APPALACHIAN

‘The Appalachian chapter met on
December 8, 1956, at Abingdon,
Virginia, and elected seven new of-
ficers for this year. ‘hey are: presi-
dent, James R. Lyle, °48, Kings-
port, “Tennessee; vice-presidents,
Perry D. Hunter, ’22, Johnson City,
Tennessee; Francis M. Hoge, ’34,
Marion, Virginia; Hugh P. Cline,
"48, Norton, Virginia; Homer A.
Jones, Jr.,’42, Bristol, Virginia; and
George A. Pruner, °34, Lebanon,
Virginia; secretary-treasurer, John
Faison, °55, Kingsport, ‘Tennessee.

Guest speakers were Clayton E.
Williams, dean of the law school
at Washington and Lee, and Jim
Price, Jr.

WASHINGTON

Jim Price, associate alumni sec-
retary, was the speaker on Decem-
ber 14, 1956, when the Washington
area alumni met at the University
Club for a fall luncheon meeting.
John W. Warner, Jr., ’49, 1s presi-
dent and Arthur C. Smith, Jr., °41,
is secretary-treasurer.

ROANOKE

Bill McCann, basketball coach
at Washington and Lee, was guest
speaker on December 11 at the

chapter meeting held at the Shen-
andoah Club.

A five-man committee, headed by
Bernard Levin, ’42, will investigate
the possibility of underwriting a col-
lege education at Washington and
Lee for some deserving boy. If and
when the project is undertaken, the
student will be of the highest type.

Richard T. Edwards, °33, was

elected president, succeeding Wil-
liam B. Hopkins, ’42. H. Thomas
Martin, ‘41, is vice-president and
Robert W. Kime, ‘’51, secretary-
treasurer. Six men were named to
the board of directors. ‘They are:
Harold G. Robertson, ’20; Lewis
N. Hock, ’27; Charles S. McNulty,
Jrv.. 937; Thomas C. Lee, °46; Ed-
ward P. ‘Thomas, Jr., ‘50; and
Robert J. Sheffer, ’55.

 

CorRRECTION: In the 1955-56
Alumni Fund Report, an er-
ror was made in the Roanoke,
Virginia, regional solicitation
figures. The totals read that
62 contributors had given
$485, for an average of $6.85.
This statement should have
read that 62 contributors gave
$1,438, for an average of
$21.90. We are glad to make
this correction.

 

 

 

BIRMINGHAM

The Birmingham alumni chapter
met Tuesday night, November 13,
1956,. at Mountainbrook Country
Club. Dr. W. A. Flick, head of the
psychology department at Washing-
ton and Lee, represented the Uni-
versity. Warren Merrin, Jr., °49,
president of the local chapter, pre-
sided.

PENINSULA

The annual  Lee-Washington
banquet of the Peninsula chapter
was held on Friday, January 18, at
the James River Country Club in
Norfolk, Virginia. About 40 per-
sons attended.

A social hour began at 6:30 p.m.,
with dinner following. Speaker was
Dr. George H. Foster, associate pro-
fessor of English at Washington
and Lee, who talked informally
about the University as it is now,
and its plans for the future. Rich-
ard E. McMurran, ’51, presided.

23

 

Officers elected at the meeting
are: president, Mr. McMurran;
vice-president, Douglas M. Smith,
‘51; secretary, V. I. Strickler, °38;
treasurer, Dennis Edwards, ‘24;
publicity chairman, John Bowen,
"B1.

LOUISVILLE

Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh, dean cf
the University, was guest speaker
at the dinner meeting of the Louis-
ville chapter, held January 21 at
the Kentucky Hotel. About 30 per-
sons attended, including alumni
and some wives. Doctor Sensabaugh
answered questions about the Uni-
versity at the conclusion of his talk.

During the afternoon, prior to
his appearance at the meeting, he
visited schools in the area to con-
tact prospective students.

CHARLOTTE

Doctor Sensabaugh was speaker
at the Charlotte, North Carolina,
luncheon meeting on December 10.
He spoke on the state of the Uni-
versity now, and answered ques-
tions from the 24 alumni present.
Herbert Woodward, Jr., ’14, presi-
dent, presided over the meeting.

The group made plans to con-
tact boys in the area who might be
interested in Washington and Lee,
and to entertain them.

Athletics

(Continued from page ro)

squeaked past Davidson, 44 to 42;
and East Carolina Teachers by 47
to 40. V. P. I. won their match, 49
to 37. In the Bix Six meet at Char-
lottesville, the General tankmen
came in third, behind the V. M. I.
champs and second-place V. P. I.

‘T'wombly’s many years as swim-
ming coach have brought him 99
wins, 45 defeats, six state champion-
ships, and four Southern Confer-
ence team championships.

‘The wrestlers had a mediocre sea-
son, losing five, winning three.

wee LE

24

 

09 DANIEL K. SADLER, associate justice

of the Supreme Court of New Mexico. was
a member of the Distinguished Awards
Jury of the Freedoms Foundation last
year. This jury, under the chairmanship of
Dr. Francis P. Gaines, selected individuals,
organizations, and schools throughout the
nation to receive honors for their work
in bringing about a better understanding
of the American Way of Life, and preserv-
ing America’s heritage of freedom.

Dr. CHARLES WATKINS of Accomac, Vir-
ginia, retired dean of Margaret Morrison
Carnegie College; has been honored by his
former students, who equipped a lounge
at Carnegie Institute of ‘Technology,
Pittsburgh, and named it the Charles
Watkins Lounge. He was associated fo
many years with the College, which is
one of four forming Carnegie Tech. He
has been retired since 1948.

10 Dr. V. P. SYD=NSTR:ICKER Was unani-
mously elected a Fellow of the New York
Academy of Sciences on December 6, 1956,
in recognition of his achievements in
science. He is dean of Post-graduate Med-
ical Education, and Professor and Chair-
man of the Department of Medicine at the
Medical College of Georgia.

COLONEL JOHN H. ‘TUCKER, JR., promin-
ent Shreveport attorney, was awarded the
henerary degree of Doctor of Laws on
November 16, 1956, at Louisiana State
University Law School’s fiftieth anniver-
sary celebration. Colonel ‘Tucker, presi-
dent of the Louisiana State Law Institute,
was cited fcr his work in advancing the
cause of legal scholarship in Louisiana,
and especially for his work and _ leader-
ship as president of the Institute in pro-
moting legal research and law reform in
Louisiana.

 

Dat... cccecccccccccccccccccucecccecuaeens

 

NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS

Se eres seerees eee sseseeseeeseets es eeteseseeesESECeEeEETESESER EBS

First Middle
Old ACAYeSS..........c ccc cccccccccccceccceceeees

Cee eees ee ese FSO FETE ETHRHEECLCEST HHSC HH HE LEOESEOHESOEHEHE LEECH EOBEES

ee ee ease eee ees ees ese eae reer eee eereee se eee serEe SEE EEE EH HEE EEE EH ETH HORE EEO ERE EEE OTE EES OO EEE EEE EE OEES

see eee ee neseeesresesressesesseseeeeeeseseseHeeseseseseseEsEeeeses

eeee eter es ose see ees eee ees eee EoeeH eee eee EEE EEE E THEE HES EEE HEHEHE ETE EEE EEE TE ESOS ESET ORES EERO EELS

Town, State

News about yourself for Class Notest......cccccecccccestseeeteeteetteeeneeens

Cee eeeseseseeserese eee EOE EEE EEE SEETHER ERE EEE HEHEHE EEE HEHE TEETH EEE SEES ESSE ESET EHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHE HEH HO EHEEHEETER ESTES OSES EEEES

Sesser eee see eee s FHF EEE HEHE EH EE HEHEHE EEE HEHEHE ETHOS EEE HESS HEE S ESO HEHEHE EEHEEHEEHTHESHEESESEEHT EEE HEE ET ESE ER EREFESES EE EOE HEEE

Street

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

/ 5 Dr. RicHarD W. Foxes, clinical
professor of dermatology at Medical Col-
lege of Virginia, has been elected to the
board of directors of the American Aca-
demy of Dermatology.

/ 7 Dr. A. E. CRUTHIRDS, an eye, ear,

nose, and throat specialist in. Phoenix,
Arizona, has been elected president of
the International Society of Ophthalmo-
logic and Otolarygolgic Societies, a medi-
cal group with societies in 48 foreign coun-
tries as well as all the states and terri-

tories of the United States. Dr. Cruthirds
has practiced his specialty in Arizona
since 1923, and is a member of the In-
ternational College of Surgeons, the Amer-
ican College of Surgeons, and the Ophthal-
mologic Society of the United Kingdom.

2 2 ROBERT SHANNON CHERRY, JR., who
lives at 1919 Linden Street, Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, is in the cotton business, and
owns several farms. He is married and the
father of one daughter.

26 Guy Noe. May is circuit court re-

porter for the Eleventh Judicial District.
He lives at 1707 Oak Street in Pine Bluff,
Arkansas. He and Mrs. May are the par-
ents of two children, Charlie Scott May,
who finished Washington and Lee in
1953, and a daughter at the University of
Arkansas. |

29 RICHARD POWELL CARTER, who was
publicity director and journalism teacher

for six years at Washington and Lee,
1934-40, had a very interesting story in
the Saturday Evening Post not long ago
about Captain Bill Gray who captures
sharks alive for the Miami (Florida) Sea-
quarium. The story was also re-printed
in Russian for “American Illustrated Mag-
azine” which the United States State De-
partment is circulating in Russia. Dick is
president and treasurer of an advertising
agency in Miami. His son, Richard, Jr.,
is now a student at Washington and Lee.

Lewis F. POWELL, JR., a Richmond, Vir-
ginia attorney, has been named general
counsel for Williamsburg Restoration,
Inc, and Colonial Williamsburg, Inc.,
Inc., the two organizations carrying for-
ward the restoration of Williamsburg, Vir-
ginia. He was also named director of Wil-
liamsburg Restoration, Inc.

30 Lara FIntey Hutt, Jr., and his

wife have two children, a son and daugh-
ter. He is in the bulding supply business
in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and says he likes
golf and hunting in his spare time.

00000 OCO0O OOOO OOSFH8OHHOOOHOCHOSOOHHHOHOOOOHO60O8O8OH8O0OSOEOHHOO0HHHHOHO8HOOHH08808080888888

F you aren’t acquainted with

WILLIAM W. CasH, JR., 715, then
you've missed knowing one of the
most unusual and lovable charac-
ters in the western section of Vir-
ginia.

Ten years ago, for reasons of
health, he was forced to break off
a distinguished career as the chief
chemist of a large industrial re-
search laboratory. He returned to
his home town of Eagle Rock, Vir-
ginia, and subsequently regained
much of his broken health; so much
so, that he became science teacher
at Eagle Rock High School.

Young at heart, Bill Cash is in-
tensely interested in the education
of the boys and girls of his native
mountains. He is eminently quali-
fied as a teacher in science, not only
because of his industrial experience,
but also because as a student and
eraduate of Washington and Lee,
he completed all of Dr. Howe's
courses in chemistry as well as re-
ceiving a certificate in biology. He
also has the rare gift of arousing a
thirst for knowledge in his students,
which has been manifested in the
creative and unique exhibits dis-

WINTER 1957

played by them in the annual Bot-
etourt County Science Fair.

Last year, his science club won
the Honor Award of the Virginia
Academy of Science, and the E. C.
L. Miller Award for the Virginia
club with the most outstanding
program of accomplishments. One
exhibit won the grand award and
first place in the Boy’s Physical
Division of the Western Virginia
Science Fair at Roanoke College.
It was also winner and finalist at
the National Science Fair at the
Case Institute of Technology in
Cleveland, Ohio.

Although shunning — publicity
for himself, Bill Cash waxes elo-
quent in discussing the records of
those students who have gone from
his classes to institutions of higher
learning. Prior to Buill’s return to
Eagle Rock, it was a rare event
for a student there to go to college.
Now nearly half of each graduating
class goes on to secure one or more
college degrees. One of his former
students recently received his doc-
torate in biochemistry from Indi-
ana, another a master’s degree from
Michigan. Practically all of the col-

 

leges of western Virginia have some
of his ex-students enrolled in un-
dergraduate clases.

Bill’s students are holding an-
other Science Fair at Eagle Rock
High School on March g. We sug-
gest you go, if possible, and find
out for yourself what a grand job
he is doing for the youth of that
county.

—E. S. GILREATH

25

 

 

 

FRANK O. EVANS, since 1953, has served
as Federal District Attorney for the Mid-
dle District of Georgia, comprising about
70 Counties. His home is in Milledge-
ville, Georgia, but his headquarters is in
Macon, Georgia. He is father of two boys,
16, and 14.

Dr. STANLEY F. Hampton did a lot of
traveling while serving as president of
the American Academy of Allergy last
year, and even went to Rio de Janeiro
for an international meeting on allergy.
Besides his private practice in St. Louis,
Missouri, he conducts clinics at the Wash-
ington University School of Medicine,
teaches students, and does research.

Robert E. CLApp, Jr., has been practicing
law for 24 years in Frederick, Maryland.
He is a father of four little future Gen-
erals.

V. J. BARNETT has a son who is paymaster
on a destroyer whose home base is San
Diego, California. ‘The boy is a graduate
of Princeton and an_ ensign. Barney’s
daughter is a student at Sophie Newcomb
College in New Orleans.

Dr. Murret Kapitan has been practicing
internal medicine in New Orleans since
1936, except for a four-year stint in the
service during World War II. He and Mrs.
Kaplan have three children.

32 WAYNE Haroitp Maruis, Peoria, I-

linois attorney, has been honored by the
Pi Kappa Alpha chapter at Bradley Uni-
versity for his interest and assistance to
the chapter. He has served as president of
the house corporation, and legal advisor
since the chapter was chartered in 1950.

34 CARLTON VicroR Warr, JR., is in

the fertilizer and seed business in Pine
Bluff, Arkansas. He is the father of two
sons, whom he expects to send to Wash-
ington and Lee, and one daughter.

35 RIcHARD MCLAUGHLIN, a member

of the staff of the Cleveland, Ohio Press,
last year won the award for the Best
Single News Story in competition spon-
sored by the Cleveland Newspaper Guild.

Britt Dyer, cartconist for the Knoxville
News-Sentinel in Knoxville ‘Tennessee,

26

CHARLES A. TUTWILER, ’24, has
been elected president of the West
Virginia State Bar.

He is a native of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, and has been practicing law

 

in West Virginia for almost 33
years. Following his graduation
from Washington and Lee’s law
school in 1924, he went to Welch,
West Virginia, to join Joseph M.
Crockett in the practice of law. ‘The
two have been partners since that
time, and have their offices in the
First National Bank Building.

Well-known and active in law
circles, Mr. ‘Cutwiler is a member
and past president of the McDow-
ell County Bar Association, a mem-
ber of the American Bar Associa-
tion, a member of the state bar
which he now heads.

He is past president of the Welch
Kiwanis club; a deacon in the First
Presbyterian church of Welch;
member of the Salvation Army ad-
visory board; past chairman of the
McDowell County United Appeal;
and a general receiver in the Mc-
Dowell Circuit Court. He is also a
Mason and a Shriner.

W. CaArRoLt MEAD, ’25, has been
elected a vice-president of the In-
vestment Bankers’ Association of
America.

A partner in the firm of Mead,
Miller and Company of Baltimore,
Maryland, he has been in the secu-
rities business there for more than
thirty years.

 

A native of Lexington, Virginia,
he entered the investment field in
Baltimore in 1923. In 1932, he or-
ganized Mead, Irvine and Com-
pany, and in 1946, Mead, Miller
and Company, members of the New
York Stock Exchange.

Mr. Mead served as chairman of
the Southeastern Group of Invest-
ment Bankers’ Association in 1951,
and chairman of its education com-
mittee from 1954 to 1956. He was
president of the Baltimore Stock
Exchange from 1947 to 1949.

Much of his time has been given
to civic and philanthropic work.
He is a trustee and chairman of the
finance committee of St. Paul’s
School for Boys; a trustee of Pea-
body Conservatory of Music; on the
finance committee, Baltimore
YWCA; a director of the American
Cancer Society; and has served as
state chairman of Maryland for
the American Cancer Society cam-
paign.

During World War II, he served
in the U. S. Marine Corps.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

has drawn a booklet on the life of John
Sevier, published in cooperation with the
Great Smoky Mountains Historical Asso-
ciation.

36 BEN THIRKIELD 1S now in ae

Burma, on a new asignment for th
United States Information Agency. He was
formerly a public information officer for
the agency at Helsinki, Finland. Ben and
his family made a visit home last summer
between asignments.

J. Srewart Buxton and his brother, Wil-
liam E. Buxton, *40, formerly managing
partners of E. E. Buxton and Company,
one of Memphis’s oldest and most influ-
ential brokerage firms, are now resident
managers of Mitchell, Hutchinson and
Company, a general stock and brokerage
business and member of the New York
Stock Exchange. Both brothers have served
as directors of the Memphis Board of
Trade. Stewart is a member of the Board
of ‘Trustees of Washington and Lee.

3, Lestie TALBotrr Harris is vice-

president and general manager of CBS
Television Film Sales, New York City.

JAmes S. Moopy was re-elected to his fifth
term as a representative of Hillsborough
county, Florida, in the Florida legislature.
He has served as chairman of the House
Appropriations committee. Married and
the father of three children, he is a part-
ner in the Plant City law firm of Trinkle
and Moody. He is a director of the Florida
Strawberry Festival Association, director
of the First Federal Savings and Loan As-
sociation of Plant City, a deacon in the
First Presbyterian church, and member
of the executive committee of the Hills-
borough Bar Association.

38 CHET PALMER, advertising manager

of Johnson Motors, Waukegan, Illinois,
writes that he has to do a good bit of
traveling in this country and abroad, but
laments that “there just isn’t enough
boating water near Lexington to provide
me with an excuse to visit there, too.”

THe Rev. ArTHuR L. Bice, for the past
thirteen years rector of the Church of
the Ascension, ‘Troy, New York, is the new
rector of Emmanuel Episcopal church in
Little Falls, New York. While in Troy,
he served on many committees of the
Diocese of Albany and of the Deanery of
Troy. He was a trustee of the Episcopal
Church Home for Aged Women. After
serving as chaplain and admissions chair-
man of this institution, he was elected
president of the board, the first time in
100 years that a clergyman had headed
the group. He and Mrs. Bice are the
parents of six children, Michael, Anne,
Stephen, Peter, Christopher, and Timothy.

WINTER 1957

WitLtiAM A. MACDONOUGH, ’29, former
vice-president and director of merchandis-
ing and advertising of the Crosley-Bendix
Home Applicances Division of the Avco
Corporation, has joined the Kudner ad-
vertising agency, and is handling the
national Frigidaire advertising account.

39 RANDOLPH M. DuNCAN has_ been

appointed manager of the Owensboro
(Kentucky) ‘Tube Plant which manufac-
tures electronic receiving tubes for the
General Electric Company. His responsi-
bilities include directing and administering

 

Ropert C. HARTER, 747, 18 now Detroit
manager for the International Editions
of Life Magazine, and lives at 17130 East

Jefferson Avenue, Grosse Pointe, Michi-
gan. He was Philadelphia zone manager
of Life’s retail representatives before join-
ing the international editions in 1951, cov-
ering advertising accounts in the midwest.

 

all operations, facilities, and personnel of
the plant. Mr. Duncan is a veteran of
World War II, having served as a captain
in the Air Corps, and was formerly with
General Electric’s auditing staff, traveling
in Europe and South America. He and
Mrs. Duncan have a son, almost three,
and twins, a boy and a girl, nine months
old.

Cecit W. TAaytor has been elected first
vice-president of the Chamber of Com-
merce of Lynchburg, Virginia. He is a
lawyer there, and a former member of the
state legislature, where he served three
terms.

40 Harry R. STEPHENSON, JR., and his

law partner, S. B. Kendrick, have moved
their offices to 516 East North Street,
Greenville, South Carolina.

Harry BAKER ATwoop has an insurance
business in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He is
married and has one future General,
twelve, and a daughter of seven.

4] Joun D. Raymonp is National

Sales Group Supervisor, Bureau of Adver-
tising, American Newspaper Publishers’
Association, New York City.

RicHarD M. HERNDON is American Consul
at Fukuoka, Japan. He and Mrs. Herndon
are the parents of three children, Martha
Anne, 12; Potter, 9; and Dale, seven
months. They will welcome any W. and L.
men who visit Japan.

Dr. WALTER J. WILKINS, JR., is a surgeon,
and lives at 3800 Poplar Street, Pine Bluff,
Arkansas. He and Mrs. Wilkins have three
children, a boy and two girls.

Dr. WILLIAM BUCHANAN, assistant profes-
sor of political science at the University
of Southern California, is conducting a
study of legislative work by the California
state legislature, under a grant by the
Social Science Research Council of Wash-
ington, D.C.

4 2 Epwarp C. Burks, foreign corres-

pondent for the Baltimore Sun, wrote
some stirring dispatches for his paper
describing the Hungarians’ fight for free-
dom in Budapest. He was in the city when
the Russians began their attack, and
roamed around during the fighting, work-
ing his way around Soviet tanks in Parlia-
ment Square. He finally crossed the Aus-
trian border to send his news stories.

GILBERT GARDNER, formerly a copy reader
on the Paterson, New Jersey, Morning
Call and the New York Journal-American,
has joined the Altoona, Pennsylvania,
Tribune as city editor.

ROBERT FISHBURNE CAMPBELL, JR., Was
recently awarded the Nieman Fellowship
for a year’s study at Harvard University.

27

 

 

 

JoHN Jo£ WILKINSON was appointed last
summer as Motor Vehicle Commissioner
for the state of New Mexico. He secured

a pilot’s license last spring, and flies when-
ever he can get away {frcm the automo-
bile work.

Ropert F. HUNTER, now teaching history
at Virginia Military Institute, is the new
superintendent of the Sunday School at
Lexington Presbyterian church. He and
Mrs. Hunter are the parents of two boys
and twin girls.

43 J. ALLEN OverTON, Parkersburg,

West Virginia attorney, has been named
deputy general counsel for the United
States Department of Commerce. Since
April, 1955, he has been an assistant
to the counsel of the Commerce Depart-
ment, and Secretary of Commerce Weeks
says, “he shows great promise for the im-
portant position to which he has been
promoted.”

44 "THE Rev. JOHN N. McCormick has
been named administrative assistant to the
dean of Episcopal Theological Seminary
of Virginia, at Alexandria. He is now
chaplain of St. Stephen’s School in Austin,
Texas, and will asume his new duties in
June. A graduate of the seminary, he
served overseas in World War II with the
Third Marine Division. He and Mrs.
McCormick are the parents of three chil-
dren.

45 R. Epwarp Jackson, Chief Corres-

pondent and Manager of United Press in
Italy since 1953, returned to the states in
the fall for reassignment in New York. He
joined UP in 1947 and was abroad seven
years. Ed, Peggy, and the two boys, Roger
and Blair, stopped by Lexington on their
way back to New York after a visit in
North Carolina last fall.

46 Davip C. GIBSON, JR., formerly with
the Time International Chicago sales staff,
is head of Time’s new advertising sales
office which opened January 1 in Los An-
geles. He and Mrs. Gibson have three chil-
dren, Barbara, David, and Thomas.

Howarp C. WILKINS is engaged in the cot-

28

ton business with his father in Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, and also operates two farms, one
a cattle farm with registered Herefords.
He is married and the father of two
daughters.

48 WALTER B. POTTER, editor and pub-

lisher of the Culpeper (Virginia) Star-
Exponent, was named “Executive of the
Month” in a recent issue of the Virginia
Publisher and Printer. Walter is a member
of the executive committee of the Vir-
ginia Press Association.

Dr. Marvin L. Daves has been chief resi-
dent in Radiology at Johns Hopkins Hos-
pital in Baltimore since June, 1956. Mar-
vin’s son, Rolf Conrad, was born August

25, 1956.

49 FRANK DONALD HARRISON is in the

insurance business as a causalty under-

writer with the Dallas branch of Standard
Accident Insurance Company. He married
Margaret Kervin of Dallas in 1953, and
they are the parents of a little General,
Kevin Michael, age nineteen months. Ad-
dress: 5644 West Caruth, Dallas 9, Texas.

JAMES D. FARRAR, assistant dean of stu-
dents, was elected a memer of the board
of directors of the First National Bank of
Lexington in January. He is also a direc-
tor of the Rockbridge Red Cross chapter.

PrrRRY MANN, former teacher at Coving-
ton (Virginia) High Schcol and a _ part-
owner of a Hinton (West Virginia) res-
tuarant, entered the Washington and Lee
Law School last fall on a three-year law
scholarship. He received his Master of
Education degree in 1955 at the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

50 RICHARD DABNEY CHAPMAN recent-

ly received his appointment as a Foreign

©0000609000060800069900806080080000000000806000688006006 0008008000

 

BEN E. GrimM, '49, was recently
appointed Assistant Librarian for
the Montclair, New Jersey, Public
Library. He had previously served
as chief of information and _ lend-

ing services.

A native of Rutherford, New Jer-
sey, Ben is a veteran of World War
II, having served as a radio opera-
tor on a B-24 in the Eighth Air
Force. He entered Washington and
Lee after his Air Corps discharge,
and received a bachelor of arts de-
gree in English Literature. Then he
won his master of science degree

at the Graduate School of Library
Science at Columbia University.
For the next three years, he se-
cured professional experience in
city libraries in Brooklyn and De-
troit. In the Detroit Public Library,
he was assigned to special duties as
youth service librarian, including
school contact work, film and book
programs, maintaining special teen-
age book collections, and moderat-

ing radio discussion shows.

Ben then went to the Fair Lawn
(New Jersey) Free Public Library
and served thirty-nine months as
senior librarian. There he was ad-
ministrative assistant to the librar-
ian. He entered the Montclair Li-
brary on a special assignment to as-
sist in the planning and execution
of the move to a new and larger
building. In addition to supervising
the volunteers and paid schoolboys
who prepared and packed the li-
brary’s 100,000 volumes, he joined
in decisions to replace some library
records and materials with micro-
film. Since the opening of the new
building, he has supervised the di-
rect reference work with the public.

He and his wife, the former Jean
Bohrer, live at 485 Fairview
Avenue, Cedar Grove, New Jersey,
with their two sons, Jeffrey, four
and one-half, and Kevin, one year.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Service Officer with the United States
Department of State. His first assignment
is with the Division of Research for Far
Fast, in Washington, D.C. Besides his
B.A. degree from Washington and Lee,
Dabney has his M.A. degree from the
University of Syracuse.

RoBert U. GOODMAN will enter into a law
partnership this spring, with Andrew B.
Gallagher. Address: 209 Beck Building,
Shreveport, Louisia.

51 SAM D. EGGLESTON, JR., entered

law school at University of Virginia last
fall, after working as a production fore-
man in Atlanta, Georgia. He is married
and has one daughter, Suzanne Mercer,
almost one year old.

WILson H. LEAR is a salesman for United
States Plywood Corporation, working out
of the Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, branch.
He and Mrs. Lear are the parents of two
future Generals, 4 and 2 years old.

WILLIAM E. SACRA, JR., has an engineering
position in York, Pennsylvania, and lives
at 325 E. College Avenue there. He was
awarded his master of science degree in

engineering from Rutgers University last
May.

Dave RYER is hoping that some kind of
reunion policy for the classes at Home.
comings can be set up, with headquarters
at the various fraternity houses for differ-
ent classes. Dave has one son, David Chris-
topher, one and a half.

CARLTON Davis BAILEY’s new address is
1617 Glenside Drive, Richmond 26, Vir-
ginia.

JosepH E. Kiine is teaching Industrial
Management this year at Georgia ‘Tech.

If you ‘re ever in Las Vegas, Nevada, on
business or pleasure, there’s a plush place
for you to stay, run by RicHarD B. Tay-
LoR, general manager of the Las Vegas
Hacienda. Really plush, it is located on
the famous “Las Vegas Strip,’ has an
Olympic-size swimming pool, an 18-hole
golf course, a g,ooo-square foot theater
restaurant, 266 modern guest rooms, six
shops, three bars, and—oh yes—a gambling
casino designed to accommodate 1,350
persons.

52 FRANK L. SUMMERS, JR., has entered

into a law partnership with THOMAS R.
NELSON, ‘25, in Staunton, Virginia.

Louris R. Putnam, M.D., received his medi-
cal degree from Columbia University last
June and is now interning at Cincinnati
General Hospital. Louis lives at 3231 Bur-
nett Avenue, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

Dr. PRESTON G. MANNING is interning in
surgery at Bellevue Hospital in New York
City until July. He received his medical
degree last year from Yale University, and
married Mary Jane Newland of Brevand,
North Carolina, shortly after. His address
is 315 East Fifth Street, New York 3, New
York.

FRAZIER REAMS, JR., has been appointed
an assistant county prosecutor in Toledo,
Ohio. He is a member of his father’s law
firm, Reams, Bretherton and Neipp. He
will handle all neglect cases and some
general cases coming to the prosecutor’s
office.

BENNO FORMAN is teaching a_ten-weeks’
course in creative photography at the
Roanoke, Virginia, Fine Arts Center. Ben-
no took three awards last summer in the
Roanoke newspaper’s photo contest, and
one of his pictures won a national “hon-
orable mention.”

F. STEWART ELLIoTT has resigned as _ pro-
bation officer of Common Pleas Court

©06026202000000000000989000008680808088080908080880808688OHHHHHHHHHHHHHOHOHHHOCHOKOHOOOHOHOOCACHOCOOCOCOHEOCEOCS

T MAY BE a long jump between

Southern Collegian art work
and two Freedoms Foundation
awards for editorial cartoons, but
Art Wood, °50, made it with no
trouble at all.

Art is now editorial cartoonist
for the Pittsburgh Press. His ex-
cellent drawings on a multitude of
subjects have been reprinted in
most of the leading American news-
papers, including the New York
Times, Chicago Tribune, Washing-
ton Star, Miami Heraid, Denver
Post, Los Angeles Times, Atlanta
Journal, Boston Herald, and Mil-
waukee Journal. ‘They have also
appeared in the International Edi-
tion of the New York Times, and
in a number of foreign dailies.

His cartoons have been reprinted
in Time, U. S. News and World
Report, Saturday Review of Litera-
ture, Pathfinder, and the Democrat-
ic Digest. They have also appeared
in encyclopedias and books, much
more recently, the Colliers Year-
book, and the American Peoples’
Encyclopedia.

WINTER 195%

 

 

ME wd

4

In 1954, he received the Free-
doms Foundation Award while a
member of the staff of the Rich-
mond News Leader. During the
next year, he won a second Founda-
tion Award, and a Christopher
Award.

Originals of his cartoons are rep-
resented in collections of the Wil-
liam Allen White Foundation at

the University of Kansas, and at the
University of Akron, and a_per-
manent collection at the Alderman
Library of the University of Vir-
ginia. His originals are also in the
Library of Congress, the President’s
collection at the White House, the
Harry S. ‘Truman collection for the
new Truman Library, the Supreme
Court, and a number of drawings
are in private collections of United
States congressmen and public of-
ficials.

Art is a member of Sigma Delta
Chi, National Cartoonists’ Society,
and the Press Club of Pittsburgh.
He is married to the former Sallie
Van Dyck of New York and Peters-
burg, Virginia, and they have two
children, Betsy, four, and Arthur,
two.

At Washington and Lee, he was
president of Fancy Dress Ball, edi-
tor of the Student Bicentennial
Magazine, president of his fratern-
ity, Phi Gamma Delta, a member
of ODK and of the President’s Ad-
visory Council.

29

 

Seven Washington and Lee men received commissions as ensigns in the United States Navy on December 14, in ceremonies at the New-

port, Rhode Island, Naval Station. The new ensigns are now serving in fleet and shore establishments. They are, left to right: James A,

Foutz, II, 53, Memphis, Tennessee; WALTER W. Dicos, 54, Memphis, Tennessee; Roy A. CRAlc, JR., 53, Lake Wales, Florida; ForREst

L. Moses, JR., 56, Danville, Virginia; D. M. Marturnson, ’56, Washington, D. C.; REUBEN BANE JoNgs, ’56, Clifton Forge, Virginia; and
ALFRED O. JONES, JR., 56, Birmingham, Michigan.

in Lima, Ohio, to enter the practice of
law with the firm of Light, Siferd, and
Light in Lima. He had also held the job
of probation officer with Juvenile Court
there.

Jackson L. Kiser made his initial fling at
politics last November in the general elec-
tions as Republican candidate for an-
other Washington and Lee man’s Con-
gressional seat, Representative W. M.
Tuck, ’21. Kiser, 27, was no match for
the former Virginia governor, but did
gain valuable experience in campaigning
against an ‘old pro.’

GERALD COULSON is world liaison man for
the Signode Steel Strapping Company of
Chicago, Illinois, and has many addresses.
Sometimes it is Pakistan, sometimes
Singapore, Burma, India, Germany,
France, or even Chicago. He and his wife
and 18-months-old daughter are now on
an 18-month swing around the world
again. On the last venture, Mrs. Coulson
had to fly back home from Singapore, so
baby Christine could be born in the
United States.

Dr. ALAN §$. HorowiTz, research geologist,
has joined the Ohio Oil Company's Re-
search Center in Findlay, Ohio.

James W. H. Stewart is teaching admin-
istrative law and federal courts at South-
ern Methodist University Law School this
year. He formerly taught at Washington
and Lee, and was also a former law clerk
for Justice Hugo Black of the United
States Supreme Court.

53 CHARLIE FULLER MCNUTT, JR., Was

ordained an Episcopal priest in St. John’s
church, Charleston, West Virginia, on
December 19, 1956, by the Bishop of West
Virginia, the Right Reverend Wilburn C.
Campbell.

54 Curis Coriiins will complete a

nine-months’ Russian language course at
the Naval Intelligence School in Wash-
ington in June. He was formerly stationed
aboard the U. S. S. Thrasher.

30

NorMAN Dosyns is with the public re-
lations department of the General Elec-
tric Company in Schenectedy, New York.
He completed his army duty last fall,
having served in the Office of the Chief
of Transportation at Fort Eustis, Virginia.

SuRSE TAYLOR PIERPOINT finished his army
service last September, and he and_ his
wife have gone to Paraguay to help his
father run their coffee farm. It is in a
brand new area located in the north-
eastern area of the country, so the Pier-
points will be pioneers of sorts. His ad-
dress: C. A. F. E., Casilla 16, Pedro Juan
Caballero, Republica del Paraguay.

DirKEN ‘T. VOELKER was graduated from
the law school of Ohio State Univer-
sity and passed the Ohio bar examination
last June. He is now a transportation of-
ficer at Fort Eustis, Virginia, and his ad-
dress is: Lieutenant D. 'T. Voelker, S. D. C.
12, Fort Eustis, Virginia.

WILLIAM R. HILL is working for his mas-
ter’s degree in communications arts this
year at Michigan State University, special-

 

Before he was discharged last fall, Army
First Lieut. NORMAN L. DoByNs, °54, was
awarded a special citation by Major Gen.
S. R. BRowninc for promotion and sale of
U.S. Savings Bonds. He was savings bond
officer of the Transportation Corps in 1955.

izing in television. He has a graduate
assistantship.

56 Lr. Giorck C. MILLER, JR., was

graduated in November from the officers’
basic course at the Engineering School,
Fort Belvoir, Virginia.

Britt McHenry, captain of the basketball
team at Washington and Lee last year, is
assistant basketball coach at Pennsylvania
Military College, Chester, Pennsylvania.
He is also studying for his master’s de-
gree at the University of Pennsylvania,
and later plans a career in teaching and
coaching.

 

1938

James M. Davipson, JR., was married to
Martha Stone Gathright on January 6,
1957, at Hickory Lodge, Virginia. ‘They
make their home in Lexington, where
Jim is an attorney at law.

1943

A. LEON CAHN was married on November
24, 1956, to Joan Ascher in Jackson, Mis-

Sissipp1.
1951

BuRTON LAWRENCE LITWIN was married on
November 18, 1956, to Dorothy Beth Lef-
kowitz in New York.

1952

JoHN BoLaR Harris, JR., was married to
Sarah Katherine Bulloch on December 2g,

1956.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

JULIEN BoeHwn and ‘Teena Stern were mar-
ried June 24, 1956.

AUSTIN HuNT was married last summer
to Betty Anne Chandler at Fort Smith,
Arkansas, where he was stationed with
the Army. In September, Austin was dis-
charged, and they are now living in Lon-
don, while they complete research for
their doctorates in drama and English
from the Shakespeare Institute.

1953

RoGER WILLIAMS DupbLEyY and Elizabeth
Page Grey were married in Williamsburg,
Virginia, October 27, 1956. Miss Grey is
the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John Hugh
Grey, formerly of Lexington, Virginia.

Loyp LINWoopD WILKINSON was married to
Thyra Ellen Crymes in December, 1956.
They are living in Chatham, Virginia.

BRANTLEY FRANCIS BARR, JR., Was married
to Sue Ann Jackley on October 5, 1956 in
Charleston, West Virginia. They are liv-
ing in the Walton Apartments, Maple
‘Terrace, Charleston. Mr. Barr is commer-
cial supervisor for the Chesapeake and
Potomac ‘Telephone Company of West
Virginia.

1954

ROBERT AUGUSTUS STREETER, JR., Was mar-
ried to Nancy ‘Tora Elsie Ogren on June
2, 1956.

1956

WILLIAM CALHOUN FRUE and Eloise Saun-
ders were married June 22, 1956, and are
living in Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
where Bill is in the University of North
Carolina Law School.

ARTHUR WILLIAMSON MCCAIN, JRr., and
Margaret Bain Dale were married at the
Union Church of Pocantico Hills, Tarry-
town, New York, November 3, 1956. ‘They
are living at Fort Lewis, Washington,
where Lieutenant McCain is stationed.

 

1892

JupGeE WILLIAM FoLtsom Moore, former
Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme
Court, died in November 1956, in Paris,
Texas. He began practicing law in Paris
in 1893 and continued until his retire-
ment in 1951. He served Texas as a legis-

WINTER 1957

lator and a first assistant attorney gen-
eral, as well as a chief justice.

1893

Dr. ANDREW HENRY Woops died on No-
vember 5, 1956, from injuries suffered
when he was struck by an automobile.
His home was Wellesley, Massachusetts.
He was an internationally-known physi-
cian and psychiatrist, and had taught at
the University of Iowa, Lingnam Univer-
sity in Canton, China, and Peking Union
Medical College.

COLONEL ELIJAH FUNKHOUSER died Decem-
ber 5, 1956. His home was in Waynesboro,
Virginia.

1894

EDMUND PENDLETON COoLes of Charlotte,
North Carolina, died December 29, 1956,
after an illness of several years. He was
associated with the General Electric Com-
pany for 47 years.

1908
SIDNEY LEE SHOWALTER died September 27,
1956, in St. Petersburg, Florida.

1909

J. Preston IRwin died January 1, 1957, in
Cleveland, Ohio. He was a retired en-
gineer, and devoted his spare time to rais-
ing orchids. He kept more than 3,000
plants, and had developed and named
after his wife a large white orchid with
purple throat and pink-tinged petals.

1910

ORANGE WILBUR RICHARDSON, a law gradu-
ate of 1910, died in Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, on December 6, 1956.

ELTON WATKINS died June 24, 1956 in
Portland, Oregon.

1911

Dr. Paut KinG RAND died August 7, 1956.
He lived in Alexandria, Louisiana.

1914

Morris L. MASINTER, prominent Roanoke,
Virginia, attorney, died November 16,
1956. He was a past president of the
Roanoke Bar Association, past exalted
ruler of the Roanoke lodge of Elks, past
state president of Elks, past potentate of
the Shrine, and was active in_ politics
for many years. He helped found the
Elks’ boys’ camp near Clifton Forge, Vir-
ginia. Survivors include his widow and
two sons, one of whom, Mitchell, is a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee.

1915

Lewis Tyree died January 27, 1957, at
Mulberry Hill, his home at Lexington. He
was regarded as an authority on the law
of evidence and was the author of “Chan-
cery Practice in New Jersey,’ and case

books and articles. He practiced law in
Richmond, and became professor of law
at Washington and Lee, 1917-27. In 1927,
he joined the law faculty at University
of Newark. Since 1946, he had taught
law at Rutgers University.

1916

ELwoop H. Seat died December 18, 1956,
in a Washington hospital after a long ill-
ness. He had been corporation counsel
for the District of Columbia, and general
counsel of the Maryland and Virginia Milk
Producers’ Association. He led many
March of Dimes campaigns in Washing-
ton, and was presented a plaque last year
marking 15 years of leadership in the polio
campaigns.

GILForD S. Watson died cn November 8,
1956. His home was at Port Gibson, Missis-
sippi.

1917

COLONEL MILTON B. Rocers, who served
from 1946-47 as executive director of the
Washington and Lee bi-centennial cam-
paign, was killed January 4, 1957, in a
Greyhound bus wreck just north of Lex-
ington, an accident which claimed six
other lives. Col. Rogers was on his way
to the funeral of his brother-in-law in
Lebanon, Kentucky. A former assistant
general manager of the Studebaker Cor-
poration, he was also a vice-president and
director of the United States Lines. In
1932, he became executive vice-president
and director of Community Water Service
Company in New York, retiring in 1953
to settle in Lexington. He is buried in
Lebanon, Kentucky.

1919

Dr. WIiLttAM J. BRYAN of Tulsa, Okla-
homa, died July 4, 1956.

1922

Guy CAmpBELL died December 6, 1956. His
home was in Monroe, Louisiana.

1924

IRA N. QUILLEN died October 7, 1956. He
was a former Commonwealth’s attorney
for Russell county, Virginia, and had
served as president of the Russell Bar
Association, and a member of the execu-
tive committee of the Virginia Bar Asso-
ciation.

DoucLas KNox Bemiss died November 27,
1956, in Prescott, Arkansas, following a
heart attack. He was president of the
Delight Oak Flooring Company, vice-
president of the Ozan Lumber Company,
vice-president of the Prescott and North-
western Railroad Company, and director
of the Arkansas Wood Products Corpora-
tion.

1927

RartpH G. MorrisEy died of a heart at-
tack on September 23, 1956, at his home

31

 

in Nashville, Tennessee. He was the well-
known literary editor of the Nashville
Tennesseean.

1928

Dr. WARREN PIERPONT died October 20,
1956 of a heart attack while attending the
Maryland-North Carolina football game.

1929

JAMES Woop RaAINER died of a heart attack
on November 14, 1956 in Mobile, Alabama.
He was vice-president and treasurer of
the R. D. Walker Lumber Company, and
was active in civic, fraternal, and church
circles.

1930

HAROLD EDMOND FRANcIs died June 23,
1956, after suffering a heart attack. He
made his home in Cleveland, Ohio.

‘THrEoporRE L. BAUER died October g, 1956.
He served in the Judge Advocate section
tor five years during World War II.

1933

Louts A. BURGOYNE of Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania, died December 15, 1956. He was
treasurer of Sidney J. Burgoyne and Sons,
Inc., greeting card manufacturers.

PRESLEY E. VINSON, district landman for
the Amerada Petroleum Corporation of
Houston, ‘Texas, died October 13, 1956,
after suffering a heart attack while work-
ing in the yard of his home. He was a past
president of the Houston Landmen’s Club,
and was president of the Afton Oaks
Civic Club.

1953

WILLIAM DupLEy Scott, who was fullback
on the Washington and Lee football team
in 1952 and 1953, died in October, 1956,
of cancer.

 

1939

Mr. and Mrs. H. HEARTSILL RAGON, JR., are
the parents of a son. H. Heartsill Ragon,
ItI, born last June.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Hunter, Jr., are the
parents of a son, Edward Eugene Hunter,
III, born December 17, 1956.

1942

Mr. and Mrs GEorGE ARTHUR WOOLFENDEN

32

are the parents of a daughter, Laura
Katherine, born August 21, 1956.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WOFFORD STANLEY are
the parents of a son, George Cullen, born
November 2, 1956. They have three other
children, John, Jr., Sara Louise, and
Bruce Cook, and live at 828 Sunset Avenue,
Evansville, Indiana.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. ABNER LiINwoop HOLTON, JR.,
are the parents of a daughter, Virginia
‘Tayloe, born September 5, 1956. Address:
1835 Carter Road, S.W., Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. GILMAN are the
parents of a second son, Boyd Hill, born
in August, 1956, in Spartanburg, South
Carolina.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES S. Rowe are the
parents of a son, Charles Spurgeon, Jr.,
born December 27, 1956.

1948

CAPTAIN and Mrs. Jim Watson are the
parents of twins, born December 8, 1956,
at Hunter Air Force Base, Georgia. The
son is John ‘Turner, and the daughter is
Janna Marie. The Watsons have three
other children, all future Generals.

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES McDowELL are the
parents of a son, William Charles, born
November 17, 1956. Their daughter, Jen-
ny, is now two years old. Mr. McDowell is
a columnist for the Richmond Times- Dis-
patch.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. Davip GIBSON MAHAN are
the parents of a daughter, Robin Ann,
born October 26, 1956.

Dr. and Mrs. JAMes Z. SHANKS are the
parents of a daughter, Barbara Lee, born
December 27, 1956, at Brooke Army Hos-
pital, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Daddy
won his medical degree from the Medical
College of Georgia in 1955, and interned
in Richmond at Medical College of Vir-
ginia. He entered the medical corps of
the Army in July, 1956, and his address
is 803 Eleanor Avenue, San Antonio,
‘Texas. |

1952 |
Lr. (j.g.) and Mrs. Davrip CLark, IV, USN,
are the parents of a second daughter, Jane

Barron, born November 15, 1956, in Nor-
folk, Virginia.

A. PARKER NEFF and Mrs. NEFF are the
parents of a second daughter, Lucy La-
tane, born April 5, 1956. |

1953

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT CHARLTON COLES

are the parents of a son, Robert Charlton,
Jr., born November 25, 1956. Bob is now
located in Richmond, Virginia. Home ad-
dress: 6727 Dartmouth Avenue, Rich
mond, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. BEVERLY STEPHENSON be-
came the’ parents of a daughter, Mary
Jo, born on Christmas eve, 1956. They
live at 99-32 66th Road, Apartment 1-J,
Forest Hills, New York.

1954

EnstGN and Mrs. FRANK T. Hunozey, I,
are the parents of a son, David Mayes,
born November 5, 1956. Address: 563
Oakland Avenue, Oakland, California.

Mr. and Mrs. WyatTr FRENCH, JR., an-
nounce the birth of a son, Wyatt Kirk-
land French, on January 12, 1957, in
Richmond, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard F. WINSLOW, JR.,
are the parents of a daughter, Mary Eliz-
abeth, born December 16, 1956.

Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL GORDON HARTSHORN
are the parents of a daughter Heidi Stev-
vens, born November 3, 1956. They live
at 624 Jerrold Avenue, San _ Francisco,
California.

1955

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES BERNARD ComBs are
the parents of a son, Kirk Andrews, born
May g, 1956. Address: 3 East Mill Road,
Pedricktown, New Jersey.

1956

Mr. and Mrs. JAmMes D. Bowie are the
parents of a daughter, Anita Marie, born
October 15, 1956.

Mr. and Mrs. JAsPper B. BecKER are the
parents of a daughter, Jean Marie, born
October 1, 1956, in New Orleans, Louis-
iana.

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM ARMSTRONG HEN-
LEY of Richmond, Virginia, are the par-
ents of a daughter, Elizabeth Devany,
born November 25, 1956.

C€000069008060000806000006000

IN TRUST

On the stone wall adjoining the
entrance to Pomona College cam-
pus are these words:

‘They only are loyal
to this college
Who departing
Bear their added riches
In trust for mankind.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plate
Wedgwood

old only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $20.00 per set
(in Blue only
F.0.B., Lexington, Virginia

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

eee eee epee eine safc ete

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $26.00, f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

