WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

American
Higher

Education,

1958

Spring 1958

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University

Finals 1958

CALENDAR OF EVENTS

May 24-June 4 Final Examinations

10:00
5:00
8:00

10:00

Q+ 30

10:30

11:00

12:45

ro

[OO
Q:00

g:00

g:00

10:30

11:00

a.m.

p.m.
p.m.
p.m.

a.171.

a.)

a.m.

p.m.

p.m

p.m.
p-m.

a.IN).

a.m.

a.m.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4

University Board of Trustees meets in the President’s Office.
Concert by Finals Dance Orchestra on the lawn in front of Lee Chapel.
Alumni Smoker, Student Union Building.

Finals Dance in Doremus Gymnasium.

‘THURSDAY, JUNE 5

The Alumni Board of Trustees meets in Washington Hall.

Academic Procession forms at Washington Hall for Baccalaureate
service.

Baccalaureate Service in Lee Chapel. Speaker: Dr. Norman Vincent
Peale, pastor of Marble Collegiate Church, New York City.

The Alumni Association luncheon for seniors, parents, faculty, and
alumni on the back campus.

General Meeting of all alumni in duPont Hall auditorium.
Reception for seniors, parents, and guests at the President's Home.

Finals Dance in Doremus Gymnasium.
FRIDAY, JUNE 6

Commissioning Ceremony in Lee Chapel.

Academic Procession forms at Washington Hall for Commencement
Exercises.

Commencement Exercises on the lawn between the President's home
and R. E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church.

Alumni—you are cordially invited and urged to attend!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Box 82,

Applachian—Homer A. Jones, Jr., °42,
Bristol, Virginia
Augusta-Rockingham—Richard W. Smith, °41, In-
dustrial Loau building, Staunton, Vir ginia.
‘46, 46 Fifth St., N.W.

Atlanta—Rodney Cook,
Hoyt, ’39, 518 Chestnut

Baltimore—Robert S.
Avenue, Towson 4, Marylan

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North 3rd
Street

Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr.,
‘34, United Carbon Building

Gna none Ceoree U. Stephens, °50, 904 Avon

ac
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust

and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois
Charlotte—Charles L. Green, "40, 1207 Commercial

’41, 1020 Union Trust

Bank Bldg.
Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter,
Building
Cleveland—Roy D. Prentiss, °44, 17605 Kinsman
Road
Danville—Richard L. Heard, '44, 220 Robertson
"34, First

Avenue
Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley,

Federal Building, St. Petersburg
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building

Miami, Florida
Houston—Ted Riggs, ’38, 2000 First City National

Bank Building
’48, 625 Hogan

Jacksonville—A. B. Conley, Jr

Street
Kansas a H. Leedy, ’49, 15 West 10th
"40, Kentucky

Stree
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II,

Home Life Building
Lynchburg—Edward S. Graves,

Colony Life Building
Mid-South—Harry Wellford, ’46, Commerce Title

Building, Memphis, Tennessee
°41, 68 Carlton

New York—Steven E. Campbell,
Avenue, Port Washington, New York
°30, Jahncke

New_ Orleans—Herbert Jahncke,
Service
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, '13.
Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk, Virginia—Sam R. Ames, °42, 603 Nation-
al Bank of Commerce Bldg., Norfolk 1, Va.
Texas—John M. ne *31, 401 Re-

North
public Bank Building, Dalla
Nortbwest Louisiana—Richard Eglin, ’44, Shreve-
por
Jr., °38, 3406

Peninsula—Vernon T. Strickler,
Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia
*50, 59-3 Drexel-

*30, 409 First

Philadelphia—James T. Trundle,
brook Drive, Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., ’41, 702
Frick Building
Richmond, Virginia—Robert A. Dementi, ’40, 4215
Seminary Avenue, Richmond 22, Virginia
Roanoke—H. Thomas Martin, ’41, 442 King George
Avenue, S.W
Antonio—John_ W. Goode, Jr., °48, 407-09

San
Scuth Texas Building
St. Louis—Andrew H. Baur, ’37, 50 Picardy Lane,

Clayton 24, Missouri
Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, ’31, Box 1672, Huntington,
West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ‘38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland
Washington. D. C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,
, 1818 You Street, N.W.

 

Spring 1958
Vol. XXXITI

No. 2
Published quarterly by Alumni, Incorporated
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Managing Editor
‘TINA C, JEFFREY

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DaAVIs, JR.
FRANK J. GILLIAM
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN
AMES. W. WHITEHEAD

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC

President
ERNEST Woopwarb II, 1940

Vice-President

Davip D. JOHNSON, 1921

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Treasurer
FRANK C. BROOKS, 1946

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MARTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., 1937
ERNEST Woopwarb, II, 1940
Davin D. JOHNSON, 1921
FRANK C. Brooks, 1946
PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935
BEN W. DITTO, 1943

THE Cover: Springtime at Washington and Lee
State Chamber of Commerce.

—Photo by Flournoy,

 

BOL TZRYTS ae) (ZC

PRING WAS A LITTLE late this
S year, with snows up until
almost the first day of Easter vaca-
tion. The colorful spring garb of
students blossomed forth in April,
however, and once again, the tra-
ditional expeditions to Goshen on
Saturday and Sunday afternoons
began.

“Great Ideas of Western Man”
was announced as the theme for the
1958 Calyx. On March a1, fifty
members of the Mary Washington
College Glee Club appeared in joint
concert with the Washington and
Lee Glee Club. Class parties were
staged by sophomores and juniors,
“to promote class unity,” in March
and April. The Troubadours pre-
sented two fine plays, Shakespeare’s
“Measure for Measure,” and “In-
herit the Wind.” During Easter
vacation, March 2g9-April 6, the
campus informal song group, The
Sazeracs, enjoyed a Florida singing
engagement at the Colonnades, a
resort hotel in West Palm Beach.

=

After vacation, a high spot in

campus activities was the 1958
Minstrel Show, April 10-12, in
the ‘Troubadour ‘Theater. Seven

lovely Hollins students also ap-
peared in the show, proceeds of
which went to the Student War
Memorial Scholarship Fund. A
campus bridge tournament took
place in April, sponsored by the
‘Tuesday edition of The Ring-twm
Phi.

Spring Dances were held April
18-19, with the theme, ‘““The Evolu-
tion of Jazz.” ‘Two weeks later,
1,100 high school delegates to the
Southern Interscholastic Press As-
sociation swooped down on_ the
campus for their annual meeting.
Also descending on campus during
the spring were numerous repre-
sentatives of industry, recruiting
seniors for jobs in their businesses.

Political maneuvers got under-
way in mid-April as party faithfuls
pushed their candidacy for campus
offices.

Dr. MARION JUNKIN illustrates his lecture
ma Fine Arts class in duPont auditor-
ium, with colored slides of Renaiaissance
paintings from the fourteenth to eigh-
teenth centuries. —State C. of C. Photo.

Meanwhile, attendance at visit-
ine scholar Dr. Arnold ‘Toynbee’s
Friday lectures remained high, as
stvdenis, faculty, alumni, and visi-
tors maintained a keen interest in
the historian’s talks on contempor-
ary world conditions.

 

THIRTEEN MEMBERS OF the faculty
will share in Glenn Grant research
and study funds totaling $4,078
this summer. ‘They are:

Professor E. C. Atwood, econom-
ics, for research and study for the
writing of a textbook in money
and banking; Dr. L. L. Barrett,
Spanish, for partial expenses of
travel and living in Spain while
doing research on Guillen de Cas-
tro; Dr. William G. Bean, history,
for revision of the manuscript of
Sandy Pendleton;

Dr. A Ross Borden, Jr., English,
for research in the Folger and
Houghton libraries on allegorical
and narrative poets of the English
Renaissance; Dr. J. D. Cook, Jr.
accounting, for study and compara-
tive analysis of the budget of the
Commonwealth of Virginia; Pro-
fessor ‘IT. E. Ennis, accounting, for
continuing work on his Ph.D. de-
gree at University of Michigan; Dr.
Marshall Fishwick, American. stu-
dies, for research and study on the
“Southern Code”;

Dr. Paul C. Hayner, philosophy,
for research at Harvard libraries
on philosophy of art in the twen-
tieth Dr. ‘Thomas P.
Hughes, history, for research on his-
tory of the electrical industry;
Professor R. N. Latture, political
science, for a study of parliamen-
tary institutions in India and Pak-
istan; Dr. W. W. Pusey, III, Ger-

century;

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

man, for research in the writings of
Eduard von Keyserling;

Professor W. J. Ritz, law, for a
study of “Origin, Purpose, and In-
terpretation of the Conflict of Laws
Clauses of the Federal Constitu-
tion.”; Dr. J. K. Shillington, chem-
istry, for research on the resolu-
tion of optically active ketones in
the light of new discoveries.

m= THE APPOINTMENT OF James W.
Whitehead as Director of Univer-
sity Relations was effective May 1.
He came to Washington and Lee
from New York, where he was ex-
ecutive director of the Empire
State Foundation of Independent
Liberal Arts Colleges, a post he
held for three years.

He has stepped into a new po-
sition established to integrate all
of Washington and Lee’s public
relations activities under one ad-
ministrative head. His primary
concern will be the continuing
work of the Office of University
Development, now in its fifth year.
One of his first major tasks is the
final planning and organization
for the two million dollar capital
fund campaign, which will be
launched later this year.

In addition to his work with the
Empire State Foundation, he has
had other experience in public re-
lations. From 1945 until 1950, he
was director of public relations
and alumni secretary for the Uni-
versity of ‘Lampa, his alma mater,
at ‘Tampa, Florida. From 1950 to
1955, he served in various execu-
tive capacities for the National
Conference of Christians and Jews.

A native of Columbus, Georgia,
he is 36, and the father of two sons.
He is a 1942 graduate of Tampa.
During World War II, he saw serv-
ice as a naval aviator in the North
and Central Pacific, and was dis-
charged with the rank of Lieuten-
ant (junior grade).

Donald E. Smith, who headed
Washington and Lee’s development
program from its organization in

SPRING 1958

1953, until February of this year,
is now director of university re-
lations at the University of Roches-
ter, New York.

m DR. MERTON OGDEN PHILLIPS, head
of the department of economics,
died March 25, 1958, after suffering

a heart attack March 18. He had

taught at Washington and Lee
since 1929, and was Wilson Pro-
fessor of economics.

He was co-author with Dr. T.
Russell Smith of Columbia Uni-
versity of a textbook in economic
geography, used widely throughout
the country. The book, “North
America,” has gone through sever-
al editions. Other books were his
“Report of U.S. Maritime Commis-
sion on ‘Pramp Shipping Service,”
and “Industrial and Commercial
Geography.” Dr. Phillips was a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Beta
Gamma Sigma and Delta Kappa
Epsilon.

Funeral services were held from

Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal
church, of which he was a member.
Survivors include his wife, a son
and daughter.

 

Three decades at Washington and Lee...

m= ANOTHER CHEMISTRY textbook by
Dr. E. S. Gilreath has been pub-
lished, by the McGraw-Hill Book

company. The book, “Fundamental
Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry,”
advanced undergraduate
students in chemistry, and is be-
ing used by Dr. Gilreath’s advanced
inorganic chemistry class here.
His first book, “Qualitative

is for

Analysis,” a text for sophomore
chemistry classes at Washington
and Lee, is now in use at Over a
hundred colleges and universities
in the United States.

 

m VALEDICTORIAN FOR THE Class of
1958 will be John Monk Larson,
a Beta Theta Pi from Washington,
D.C., who will graduate with a
Bachelor of Arts degree in political
science.

John compiled a 2.971 grade
point average over his four years at
Washington and Lee. He had 104
semester hours with the grade of
“A” and three hours with the grade
of ‘“B’. He was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa as a junior, and holds the
coveted Vincent L. Bradford schol-
arship. John, a polo victim of
1945, does not have full use of his
arms or shoulders; however, he can
drive a car, and has one especially
adapted with foot controls.

m FOR THE SECOND successive year,
a University senior has won a $250
scholarship from the Delta Upsilon
Educational Foundation. Lewis
John of Cortland, New York, was
one of seven undergraduate leaders
so honored in the United States.
John, whose major is economics, 1s
president of Interfraternity Coun-
cil, and a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

m FIVE SENIORS HAVE won Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowships for
advanced study, and one senior was
awarded a Fulbright scholarship
for graduate study in theology

abroad. [Turn Page|

3

 

DEAN WILLIAMS, right, shows Tweed Bowl (awarded this fall to the Moot Court team for
the best brief in the National Competition) to Tucker Law Lecturer, Joun J. McCroy.

The Wilson fellowships, valued
at more than $1400 each, went to
M. Maxwell Caskie, ITI, Arlington,
Virginia; J. Arnold Groobey, Nor-
folk, Virginia; J. Gill Holland, Jr.
Lynchburg, Virginia; Lewis G.
John, Cortland, New York; and
Randal F. Robinson, Paducah,
Kentucky.

William R. Goodman, Jr. of Lex-
ington was named to a Fulbright
scholarship at the University of
Edinburgh, Scotland, next year.

 

m LEE CHAPEL was filled to capacity
to hear John J. McCloy deliver the
1oth annual John Randolph Tuck-
er Lectures April 18 and 19.

Mr. McCloy, who is Chairman of
the Board of Chase Manhattan
Bank, former U.S. High Commis-
sioner to Germany, former Assist-
ant Secretary of War, and a distin-
guished member of the New York
Bar, spoke on “The Extracurricular
Lawyer,” April 18, and joined with
Visiting Scholar in Residence, Dr.
Arnold J. Toynbee, to discuss ‘“The
Role of the Lawyer in a Changing
World,” April 19.

4

In his first lecture, Mr. McCloy
discussed the interrelationship of
law, government, and business and
emphasized some of the attributes
and detriments of ‘the legally
trained man” in fields outside of
the traditional scope of the legal
profession.

He concluded that, although the
lawyer is in a class apart when par-
ticipating in extracurricular fields,
there is nothing per se about a
legal training which qualifies every
lawyer to become outstanding in
these fields.

The panel discussion, moderated
by President Gaines, supplanted
the traditional second and_ third
individual lectures. Both Mr. Mc-
Cloy and Dr. ‘Toynbee agreed that
the role of the lawyer today is quite
different from the traditional con-
cept of the family lawyer. ‘They be-
lieved that, possibly, the modern
lawyer could mould public opinion
so as to prevent resort to war as
a means of settling problems of
the international community.

The two speakers also explored
timely subjects such as the future
of international law, developments
in current foreign policy, and the
expanding role of the lawyer in
economic fields.

 

A Word About:
Our Higher

Education
Supplement...

HE FACE OF Alma Mater is famil-
lar to her sons and daughters.
Alumni magazines of America have
told their readers what the col-
leges are today, what they are at-
tempting in action and planning.
But have we told the story of
American higher education in all
its national diversity, strength, ur-
gency and opportunity? Do we pro-
vide perspective that shows our
Alma Mater in its world orienta-
tion?

There are reasons why we could
not. We have limits of manpower,
budget, time: there are immediate,
demanding preoccupations. But a
group of fourteen alumni maga-
zine editors was challenged to pool
individual resources, and_ tackle
the bigger assignment together.
This special thirty-two page sup-
plement, beginning on the next
page, is the result.

It was not achieved simply or
easily. Dozens of alumni editors
have scouted what was significent
in every region. Material was »col-
lected, collated, written, and re-
written. A photographer took 5,000
pictures, of which a typical group
was selected to be used as illustra-
tions. In all, 1,350,000 copies of
this supplement were printed in
alumni magazines of 153 different
colleges in our country, Canada,
and Mexico. It was a cooperative
experiment without precedent.

The alumnus of Washington and
Lee may look in vain for direct
mention of it—he may find no illus-
tration specific of our campus. But,
alongside many a paragraph and
photo, he will find an implicit
checkmark of relevance. Name or
not, Washington and Lee is there.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

A SPECIAL REPORT

AMERICAN
HIGHER EDUCATION
1958

ITS PRESSING PROBLEMS AND NEEDS ARE
EXCEEDED ONLY BY ITS OPPORTUNITIES

HIS is a special report. It is published because the

time has come for colleges and universities—and

their alumni—to recognize and act upon some ex-
traordinary challenges and opportunities.

Item: Three million, sixty-eight thousand young men and
women are enrolled in America’s colleges and universities
this year—45 per cent more than were enrolled six years
ago, although the number of young people in the eighteen-
to-twenty-one age bracket has increased only 2 per cent in
the same period. A decade hence, when colleges will feel
the effects of the unprecedented birth rates of the mid-
1940’s, today’s already-enormous enrollments will double.

Item: In the midst of planning to serve more students,
higher education is faced with the problem of not losing
sight of its extraordinary students. ““What is going to happen
to the genius or two in this crowd?” asked a professor at
one big university this term, waving his hand at a seemingly
endless line of students waiting to fill out forms at registra-

 

 

 

la education in America

had its beginnings when the Puritans
founded a college to train their ministers.
Here, reflected in a modern library
window, is the chapel spire at Harvard.

tion desks. “‘Heaven knows, if the free world ever needed
to discover its geniuses, it needs to do so now.”’ President
Robert Gordon Sproul of the University of California
puts it this way: “If we fail in our hold upon quality, the
cherished American dream of universal education will
degenerate into a nightmare.”

Item: A college diploma is the sine gua non for almost
any white-collar job nowadays, and nearly everybody
wants one. In the scramble, a lot of students are going
to college who cannot succeed there. At the Ohio State
University, for instance, which is required by law to
admit every Ohioan who owns a high-school diploma
and is able to complete the entrance blanks, two thousand
students flunked out last year. Nor is Ohio State’s
problem unique. The resultant waste of teaching talents,
physical facilities, and money is shocking—to say
nothing of the damage to young people’s self-respect.

Item: The cost of educating a student is soaring. Like
many others, Brown University is boosting its fees this
spring: Brown students henceforth will pay an annual
tuition bill of $1,250. But it costs Brown $2,300 to
provide a year’s instruction in return. The difference
between charges and actual cost, says Brown’s President
Barnaby C. Keeney, “represents a kind of scholarship
from the faculty. They pay for it out of their hides.”

Item: The Educational Testing Service reports that
lack of money keeps many of America’s ablest high-
school students from attending college—150,000 last
year. The U. S. Office of Education found not long ago
that even at public colleges and universities, where
tuition rates are still nominal, a student needs around
$1,500 a year to get by.

Item: Non-monetary reasons are keeping many promis-
ing young people from college, also. The Social Science
Research Council offers evidence that fewer than half of
the students in the upper tenth of their high-school
classes go on to college. In addition to lack of money,
a major reason for this defection is “‘lack of motivation.”’

Item: At present rates, only one in eight college
teachers can ever expect to earn more than $7,500 a
year. If colleges are to attract and hold competent
teachers, says Devereux C. Josephs, chairman of the
President’s Committee on Education Beyond the High
School, faculty salaries must be increased by at least

 

Fos its simple beginnings,

American higher education has grown into
1,800 institutions of incredible

diversity. At the right is but a sampling

of their vast interests and activities.

50 per cent during the next five years. Such an increase
would cost the colleges and universities around half a
billion dollars a year.

Item: Some critics say that too many colleges and
universities have been willing to accept—or, perhaps
more accurately, have failed firmly to rejyect—certain
tasks which have been offered to or thrust upon them,
but which may not properly be the business of higher
education at all.. “The. professor,” said one college
administrator recently, “should not be a carhop who
answers every demanding horn. Educational institutions
must not be hot-dog stands.”

Item: The colleges and universities, some say, are not
teaching what they ought to be teaching or are not
teaching it effectively. ““Where are the creative thinkers?”
they ask. Have we, without quite realizing it, grown into
_ a nation of gadgeteers, of tailfin technicians, and lost
the art of basic thought? (And from all sides comes the
worried reminder that the other side launched their
earth satellites first.)

HESE are some of the problems—only some of
them—which confront American higher education
in 1958. Some of the problems are higher edu-
cation’s own offspring; some are products of the times.

But some are born of a fact that is the identifying
strength of higher education in America: its adaptability
to the free world’s needs, and hence its diversity.

Indeed, so diverse is it—in organization, sponsorship,
purpose, and philosophy—that perhaps it is fallacious
to use the generalization, ‘““American higher education,”
at all. It includes 320-year-old Harvard and the University
of Southern Florida, which now 1s only on the drawing
boards and will not open until 1960. The humanities
research center at the University of Texas and the
course in gunsmithing at Lassen Junior College in
Susanville, California. Vassar and the U. S. Naval
Academy. The University of California, with its forty-
two thousand students, and Deep Springs Junior College,
on the eastern side of the same state, with only nineteen.

Altogether there are more than 1,800 American insti-
tutions which offer “higher education,’’. and no two of
them are alike. Some are liberal-arts colleges, some are

 

UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO

MILLS COLLEGE

 

 

 

   

GREAT ISSUES
“ SUGGESTION
Box

 

 

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE

 

AMHERST COLLEGE

 

 

Aon Ng Aan p Rtn

 

 

 

   

UNIVERS

 

ITY OF CALIFORNIA DEEP SPRINGS JUNIOR COLLEGE

EMORY UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS

 

 

W. growth have come problems
for the colleges and universities. One of
the most pressing, today, is swelling
enrollments. Already they are straining
higher education’s campuses and
teaching resources. But the present large
student population is only a fraction

of the total expected in the next decade.

 

 

SMITH COLLEGE

vast universities, some specialize in such fields as law,
agriculture, medicine, and engineering. Some are sup-
ported by taxation, some are affiliated with churches,
some are independent in both organization and finance.
Thus any generalization about American higher edu-
cation will have its exceptions—including the one that
all colleges and universities desperately need more money.
(Among the 1,800, there may be one or two which
don’t.) In higher education’s diversity—the result of its
restlessness, its freedom, its geography, its competitive-
ness—lies a good deal of its strength.

MERICAN higher education in 1958 is hardly what
the Puritans envisioned when they founded the
country’s first college to train their ministers in

1636. For nearly two and a half centuries after that, the
aim of America’s colleges, most of them founded by
churches, was limited: to teach young people the rudi-
ments of philosophy, theology, the classical languages,
and mathematics. Anyone who wanted a more extensive
education had to go to Europe for it.

One break from tradition came in 1876, with the
founding of the Johns Hopkins University. Here, for the
first time, was an American institution with European
standards of advanced study in the arts and sciences.

Other schools soon followed the Hopkins example.
And with the advanced standards came an emphasis on
research. No longer did American university scholars

 

 

 

simply pass along knowledge gained in Europe; they
began to make significant contributions themselves.
Another spectacular change began at about the same
time. With the growth of science, agriculture—until
then a relatively simple art—became increasingly com-
plex. In the 1850’s a number of institutions were founded
to train people for it, but most of them failed to survive.
In 1862, however, in the darkest hours of the Civil
War, Abraham Lincoln signed the Morrill Land-Grant
Act, offering each state public lands and support for
at least one college to teach agriculture and the mechanic
arts. Thus was the foundation laid for the U. S. state-
university system. “In all the annals of republics,” said
Andrew D. White, the first president of one institution
founded under the act, Cornell University, “there is no
more significant utterance of confidence in national
destiny, out from the midst of national calamity.”

OW there was no stopping American higher edu-

cation’s growth, or the growth of its diversity.

Optimistically America moved into the 1900’s,
and higher education moved with it. More and more
Americans wanted to go to college and were able to do
so. Public and private institutions were established and
expanded. Tax dollars by the millions were appropriated,
and philanthropists like Rockefeller and Carnegie and
Stanford vied to support education on a large scale.
Able teachers, now being graduated in numbers by
America’s own universities, joined their staffs.

In the universities’ graduate and professional schools,
research flourished. It reached outward to explore the
universe, the world, and the creatures that inhabit it.
Scholars examined the past, enlarged and tended man’s
cultural heritage, and pressed their great twentieth-
century search for the secrets of life and matter.

Participating in the exploration were thousands of
young Americans, poor and rich. As students they were
acquiring skills and sometimes even wisdom. And, with

l. the flood of vast numbers of students,

the colleges and universities are concerned that
they not lose sight of the individuals

in the crowd. They are also worried about costs:
every extra student adds to their financial deficits.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY

their professors, they were building a uniquely American
tradition of higher education which has continued to
this day.

UR aspirations, as a nation, have never been

higher. Our need for educational excellence has

never been greater. But never have the challenges
been as sharp as they are in 1958.

Look at California, for one view of American edu-
cation’s problems and opportunities—and for a view of
imaginative and daring action, as well.

Nowhere is the public appetite for higher education
more avid, the need for highly trained men and women
more clear, the pressure of population more acute. In a
recent four-year period during which the country’s
population rose 7.5 per cent, California’s rose some
17.6 per cent. Californians—with a resoluteness which
is, unfortunately, not typical of the nation as a whole—
have shown a remarkable determination to face and even
to anticipate these facts.

They have decided that the state should build fifteen
new junior colleges, thirteen new state colleges, and five
new campuses for their university. (Already the state
has 135 institutions of higher learning: sixty-three private
establishments, sixty-one public junior colleges, ten state
colleges, and the University of California with eight
campuses. Nearly 40 cents of every tax dollar goes to
support education on the state level.)

But California has recognized that providing new
facilities is only part of the solution. New philosophies
are needed, as well.

The students looking for classrooms, for example, vary
tremendously, one from the other, in aptitudes, aims,
and abilities. “If higher education ts to meet the varied
needs of students and also the diverse requirements of
an increasingly complex society,” a California report
says, “there will have to be corresponding diversity
among and within educational institutions... . It will

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA

T. accommodate more students

and to keep pace with increasing demands

for complex research work,

higher education must spend more on construction
this year than in any other year in history.

not be sufficient for California—or any other state, for
that matter—simply to provide enough places for the
students who will seek college admission in future years.
It will also have to supply, with reasonable economy
and efficiency, a wide range of educational programs.”

Like all of the country, California and Californians
have some big decisions to make.

R. LEWIS H. CHRISMAN is a professor of

English at West Virginia Wesleyan, a Methodist

college near the town of Buckhannon. He ac-

cepted an appointment there in 1919, when it consisted

of just five major buildings and a coeducational student

body of 150. One of the main reasons he took the appoint-

ment, Dr. Chrisman said later, was that a new library
was to be built “right away.”’

Thirty years later the student body had jumped to

720. Nearly a hundred other students were taking ex-

tension and evening courses. The zooming postwar birth
rate was already in the census statistics, in West Virginia
as elsewhere.

But Dr. Chrisman was still waiting for that library.
West Virginia Wesleyan had been plagued with problems.
Not a single major building had gone up in thirty-five
years. To catch up with its needs, the college would have
to spend $500,000.

For a small college to raise a half million dollars is
often as tough as for a state university to obtain perhaps
ten times as much, if not tougher. But Wesleyan’s
president, trustees, faculty, and alumni decided that if
independent colleges, including church-related ones, were
to be as significant a force in the times ahead as they had
been in the past, they must try.

Now West Virginia Wesleyan has an eighty-thousand-
volume library, three other buildings completed, a fifth
to be ready this spring, and nine more on the agenda.

A group of people reached a hard decision, and then
made it work. Dr. Chrisman’s hopes have been more
than fulfilled.

So it goes, all over America. The U. S. Office of Edu-
cation recently asked the colleges and universities how
much they are spending on new construction this year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA

a. most serious shortage that higher education faces

is in its teaching staffs. Many are underpaid,

and not enough young people are entering the field.

Here, left to right, are a Nobel Prizewinning chemist,

a Bible historian, a heart surgeon, a physicist, and a poet.

Ninety per cent of them replied. In calendar 1958, they
are spending $1.078 billion.

Purdue alone has $37 million worth of construction
in process. Penn has embarked on twenty-two projects
costing over $31 million. Wake Forest and Goucher and
Colby Colleges, among others, have left their old campuses
and moved to brand-new ones. Stanford is undergoing
the greatest building boom since its founding. Every-
where in higher education, the bulldozer, advance agent
of growth, is working to keep up with America’s insati-
able, irresistible demands.

ES UILDING PROJECTS, however, are only the
outward and visible signs of higher education’s
effort to stay geared to the times. And in many
ways they are the easiest part of the solution to its
problems. Others go deeper.

 
 

 

Not long ago the vice president of a large university
was wondering aloud. “Perhaps,” he said, ““we have
been thinking that by adding more schools and institutes
as more knowledge seemed necessary to the world, we
were serving the cause of learning. Many are now calling
for a reconsideration of what the whole of the university
is trying to do.”’

The problem is a very real one. In the course of her
200-year-plus history, the university had picked up so
many schools, institutes, colleges, projects, and “‘centers”’
that almost no one man could name them all, much less
give an accurate description of their functions. Other
institutions are in the same quandary.

Why? One reason is suggested by the vice president’s
comment. Another is the number of demands which we
as a nation have placed upon our institutions of higher
learning.

We call upon them to give us space-age weapons and

 

WEST VIRGINIA WESLEYAN COLLEGE

 

 

 

 

 

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY

polio vaccine. We ask them to provide us with lumber-
men and liberally educated PTA presidents, doctors and
statesmen, business executives and poets, teachers and
housewives. We expect the colleges to give us religious
training, better fertilizers, extension courses in music
appreciation, fresh ideas on city planning, classes in
Square dancing, an understanding of medieval literature,
and basic research.

The nation does need many services, and higher edu-
cation has never been shy about offering to provide a
great portion of them. Now however, in the face of a
multitude of pressures ranging from the population
surge to the doubts many people have about the quality
of American thought, there are those who are wondering
if America is not in danger of over-extending its edu-
cational resources: if we haven’t demanded, and if under
the banner of higher education our colleges and universi-
ties haven't taken on, too much.

RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE

 

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE

MERICA has never been as ready to pay for its
educational services as it has been to request
them. A single statistic underlines the point. We

spend about seven tenths of 1 per cent of our gross
national product on higher education. (Not that we
should look to the Russians to set our standards for us
—but it is worth noting that they spend on higher
education more than 2 per cent of their gross.)

As a result, this spring, many colleges and universities
find themselves in a tightening vise. It is not only that
prices have skyrocketed; the real cost of providing
education has risen, too. As knowledge has broadened
and deepened, for example, more complicated and
costly equipment has become essential.

Feeling the financial squeeze most painfully are the
faculty members. The average salary of a college or
university teacher in America today is just over $5,000.
The average salary of a full professor is just over $7,000.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is a frequent occurrence on college campuses for a
graduating senior, nowadays, to be offered a starting
salary in industry that is higher than that paid to most
of the faculty men who trained him.

On humane grounds alone, the problem is shocking.
But it is not limited to a question of humaneness; there
is a serious question of national welfare, also.

“Any institution that fails through inability or de-
linquency to attract and hold its share of the best

academic minds of the nation is accepting one of two.

consequences,” says President Cornelis W. de Kiewiet of
the University of Rochester. “‘The first 1s a sentence of
inferiority and decline, indeed an inferiority so much
greater and a decline so much more intractable that
trustees, alumni, and friends can only react in distress
when they finally see the truth. ...

“The second...is the heavy cost of rehabilitation
once the damage has been done. In education as in busi-
ness there is no economy more foolish than poor mainte-
nance and upkeep. Staffs that have been poorly maintained
can be rebuilt only at far greater cost. Since even less-
qualified and inferior people are going to be in short
supply, institutions content to jog along will be denied
even the solace of doing a moderate job at a moderate
cost. It is going to be disturbingly expensive to do even
a bad job.”

The effects of mediocrity in college and university
teaching, if the country should permit it to come about,
could only amount to a national disaster.

ITH the endless squeezes, economies, and

crises it 1S experiencing, it would not be

particularly remarkable if American higher
education, this spring, were alternately reproaching its
neglecters and struggling feebly against a desperate fate.
By and large, it is doing nothing of the sort.

Instead, higher education is moving out to meet its
problems and, even more significantly, looking beyond
them. Its plans take into account that it may have twice
as many students by 1970. It recognizes that it must not,
in this struggle to accommodate quantity, lose sight of
quality or turn into a molder of “‘mass minds.” It is con-
tinuing to search for ways to improve its present teaching.
It 1s charting new services to local communities, the
nation, and vast constituencies overseas. It is entering
new areas of research, so revolutionary that it must
invent new names for them.

ONSIDER the question of maintaining quality
amidst quantity. ““How,” educators ask them-
selves, ““can you educate everyone who is ambi-

hon students must

not be overlooked,

especially in a time when

America needs to educate

every outstanding man and woman
to fullest capacity. The

students at the right are ina
philosophy of science class.

 

tious and has the basic qualifications, and still have time,
teachers, and money to spend on the unusual boy or
girl? Are we being true to our belief in the individual if
we put everyone into the same mold, ignoring human
differences? Besides, let’s be practical about it: doesn’t
this country need to develop every genius it has?”

There is one approach to the problem at an institution
in eastern California, Deep Springs. The best way to get
there 1s to go to Reno, Nevada, and then drive about five
hours through the Sierras to a place called Big Pine.
Deep Springs has four faculty members, is well endowed,
selects its students carefully, and charges no tuition or
fees. It cannot lose sight of its good students: its total
enrollment is nineteen.

At another extreme, some institutions have had to

 

 

 

 

devote their time and effort to training as many people
as possible. The student with unusual talent has had to
find it and develop it without help.

Other institutions are looking for the solution some-
where in between.

The University of Kansas, for example, like many
other state universities, is legally bound to accept every
graduate of an accredited state high school who applies,
without examinations or other entrance requirements.
‘Until recently,” says Dean George Waggoner of Kan-
sas’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, ‘‘many of us
spent a great deal of our time trying to solve the problem
of marginal students.”

In the fall of 1955, the university announced a pro-
gram designed especially for the “gifted student.’’ Its

 

TANFORD UNIVERSITY

 

objective: to make sure that exceptional young men and
women would not be overlooked or under-exposed in a
time of great student population and limited faculty.

Now Kansas uses state-wide examinations to spot
these exceptional high-school boys and girls early. It
invites high-school principals to nominate candidates for
scholarships from the upper 5 per cent of their senior
classes. It brings the promising high-school students to
its Lawrence campus for further testing, screening, and
selection.

When they arrive at the university as freshmen, the
students find themselves in touch with a special faculty
committee. It has the power to waive many academic
rules for them. They are allowed to take as large a bite
of education as they can swallow, and the usual course

 

 

 

 

 

OF KANSAS

UNIVERSITY

aie

VEN in institutions with thousands
of students, young people with
extraordinary talents can be spotted
and developed. This teacher is leading
an honors section at a big university.

prerequisites do not apply; they may enter junior and
senior-level courses if they can handle the work. They
use the library with the same status as faculty members
and graduate students, and some serve as short-term
research associates for professors.

The force of the program has been felt beyond the
students and the faculty members who are immediately
involved. It has sent a current throughout the College of
Liberal Arts and Sciences. All students on the dean’s
honor roll, for example, no longer face a strict limit in
the number of courses they may take. Departments have
strengthened their honor sections or, in some cases,
established them for the first time. The value of the
program reaches down into the high schools, too, stimu-
lating teachers and attracting to the university strong
students who might otherwise be lost to Kansas.

Across the country, there has been an attack on the
problem of the bright student’s boredom during his early
months in college. (Too often he can do nothing but
fidget restlessly as teachers gear their courses to students
less talented than he.) Now, significantly large numbers
are being admitted to college before they have finished
high school; experiments with new curricula and oppor-
tunities for small discussion groups, fresh focus, and
independent study are found in many schools. Founda-
tions, so influential in many areas of higher education
today, are giving their support.

 

 

The ‘‘quality vs. quantity” issue has other ramifica-
tions. ‘““Education’s problem of the future,”’ says President
Eldon L. Johnson of the University of New Hampshire,
‘is the relation of mind and mass.... The challenge is
to reach numbers without mass treatment and the
creation of mass men....It is in this setting and this
philosophy that the state university finds its place.”’

And, one might add, the independent institution as
well. For the old idea that the public school is concerned
with quantity and the private school with quality is a
false one. All of American higher education, in its diver-
sity, must meet the twin needs of extraordinary persons
and a better educated, more thoughtful citizenry.

HAT is a better educated, more thoughtful

citizenry? And how do we get one? If Ameri-

ca’s colleges and universities thought they
had the perfect answers, a pleasant complacency might
spread across the land.

In the offices of those who are responsible for laying
out programs of education, however, there is anything
but complacency. Ever since they stopped being content
with a simple curriculum of theology, philosophy, Latin,
Greek, and math, the colleges and universities have been
searching for better ways of educating their students in
breadth as well as depth. And they are still hunting.

Take the efforts at Amherst, as an example of what
many are doing. Since its founding Amherst has devel-
oped and refined its curriculum constantly. Once it
offered a free elective system: students chose the courses
they wanted. Next it tried specialization: students selected
a major field of study in their last two years. Next, to
make sure that they got at least a taste of many different
fields, Amherst worked out a system for balancing the
elective courses that its students were permitted to select.

But by World War II, even this last refinement seemed
inadequate. Amherst began—again—a re-evaluation.

When the self-testing was over, Amherst’s students
began taking three sets of required courses in their fresh-
man and sophomore years: one each in science, history,
and the humanities. The courses were designed to build
the groundwork for responsible lives: they sought
to help students form an integrated picture of civiliza-
tion’s issues and processes. (But they were not “‘surveys”’
—or what Philosophy Professor Gail Kennedy, chairman
of the faculty committee that developed the program,
calls ‘“‘those superficial omnibus affairs.’’)

How did the student body react? Angrily. When Pro-
fessor Arnold B. Arons first gave his course in physical
science and mathematics, a wave of resentment arose. It
culminated at a mid-year dance. The music stopped, con-
versations ceased, and the students observed a solemn,
two-minute silence. They called it a “‘Hate Arons Silence.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

But at the end of the year they gave the professor a
standing ovation. He had been rough. He had not pro-
vided his students with pat answers. He had forced them
to think, and it had been a shock at first. But as they got
used to it, the students found that thinking, among all of
life’s experiences, can sometimes be the most exhilarating.

O TEACH them to think: that is the problem. |

It is impossible, today, for any school, under-

graduate or professional, to equip its students
with all the knowledge they will need to become compe-
tent engineers, doctors, farmers, or business men. On the
other hand, it can provide its students with a chance to
discover something with which, on their own, they can
live an extraordinary life: their ability to think.

HUS, in the midst of its planning for swollen

enrollments, enlarged campuses, balanced bud-

gets, and faculty-procurement crises, higher edu-
cation gives deep thought to the effectiveness of its
programs. When the swollen enrollments do come and
the shortage of teachers does become acute, higher
education hopes it can maintain its vitality.

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY

 

 

a IMPROVE the effectiveness of their
teaching, colleges and universities

are experimenting with new techniques like
recordings of plays (above) and television,
which (/eft) can bring medical students

a closeup view of delicate experiments.

 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To stretch teaching resources without sacrificing (and,
perhaps, even improving) their effectiveness, it is explor-
ing such new techniques as microfilms, movies, and
television. At Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in Troy,
New York, the exploration is unusually intense.

RPI calls its concerted study “‘Project Reward.’ How
good, Project Reward asks, are movies, audio-visual aids,
closed-circuit television? How can we set up really ef-
fective demonstrations in our science courses? How much
more effective, if at all, is a small class than a big one?
Which is better: lecture or discussion groups? Says Roland
H. Trathen, associate head of Rensselaer’s department
of mechanics and a leader in the Project Reward enter-
prise, when he is asked about the future, “If creative
contributions to teaching are recognized and rewarded
in the same manner as creative contributions to research,
we have nothing to fear.”

The showman in a good professor comes to the fore
when he is offered that new but dangerous tool of com-
munication, television. Like many gadgets, television can
be used merely to grind out more degree-holders, or—in
the hands of imaginative, dedicated teachers—it can be
a powerful instrument for improvement.

Experiments with television are going on all over the
place. A man at the University of Oregon, this spring,
can teach a course simultaneously on his own campus
and three others in the state, thanks to an electronic link.
Pennsylvania State experimented with the medium for
three years and discovered that in some cases the TV
students did better than their counterparts who saw their
instructors in the flesh.

The dangers in assembly-line education are real. But
with new knowledge about how people actually learn—
and new devices to he/p them learn—interesting pos-
sibilities appear.

Even so, some institutions may cling to time-worn
notions about teaching until they are torn loose by
the current of the age. Others may adulterate the quality
of their product by rushing into short-cut schemes. The
_reader can hope that his college, at least, will use the
new tools wisely: with courage yet with caution. Most
of all, he can hope that it will not be forced into adopting
them in desperation, because of poverty or its inability
to hold good teachers, but from a position of confidence
and strength.

MERICAN higher education does not limit itself
‘to college campuses or the basic function of edu-
cating the young. It has assumed responsibility
for direct, active, specific community service, also.
‘“‘Democracy’s Growing Edge,”’ the Teacher’s College

 

of the University of Nebraska calls one such service
project. Its sponsors are convinced that one of the basic
functions of local schools is to improve their communi-
ties, and they are working through the local boards of
education in Nebraska towns to demonstrate it.

Consider Mullen (pop. 750), in northwest Nebraska’s
sandhills area, the only town in its cattle-ranching county.
The nearest hospital is ninety miles away. Mullen needs
its own clinic; one was started six years ago, only to bog
down. Under the university’s auspices, with Mullen’s
school board coordinating the project and the Teacher’s
College furnishing a full-time associate coordinator, the
citizens went to work. Mullen now has its clinical facilities.

Or consider Syracuse, in the southeast corner of the
state, a trading center for some three thousand persons.
It is concerned about its future because its young people
are migrating to neighboring Lincoln and Omaha; to
hold them, Syracuse needs new industry and recreational
facilities. Again, through the university’s program, towns-
people have taken action, voting for a power con-
tract that will assure sufficient electricity to attract
industry and provide opportunities for youth.

Many other institutions currently are offering a variety

 

 

of community projects—as many as seventy-eight at one
state university this spring. Some samples:

The University of Dayton has tailored its research
program to the needs of local industry and offers training
programs for management. Ohio State has planted the
nation’s first poison plant garden to find out why some
plants are poisonous to livestock when grown in some
soils yet harmless in others. Northwestern’s study of
traffic problems has grown into a new transportation
center. The University of Southern California encourages
able high-school students to work in its scientific labora-
tories in the summer. Regis College runs a series of
economics seminars for Boston professional women.

Community service takes the form of late-afternoon
and evening colleges, also, which offer courses to school
teachers and business men. Television is in the picture,
too. Thousands of New Yorkers, for example, rise before
dawn to catch New York University’s “Sunrise Semester,”
a stiff and stimulating series of courses on WCBS-TYV.

In California, San Bernardino Valley College has gone
onradio. One night a week, members of more than seventy-
five discussion groups gather in private homes and turn
on their sets. For a half hour, they listen to a program

UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA

 

such as ““Great Men and Great Issues” or ““The Ways of
Mankind,” a study of anthropology.

When the program is over (it is then 8:30), the living-
room discussions start. People talk, argue, raise ques-
tions—and learn. One thousand of them are hard at it,
all over the San Bernardino Valley area.

Then, at ten o’clock, they turn on the radio again. A
panel of experts is on. Members of the discussion groups
pick up their phones and ask questions about the night’s
topic. The panel gives its answers over the air.

Says one participant, “I learned that people who once
seemed dull, uninteresting, and pedestrian had exciting
things to say if | would keep my mouth shut and let
them say it.”

When it thinks of community services, American higher
education does not limit itself to its own back yard.

Behind the new agricultural chemistry building at the
University of the Philippines stand bare concrete columns
which support nothing. The jungle has grown up around
their bases. But you can stil: see the remains of buildings
which once housed one of the most distinguished agri-
cultural schools in the Far East, the university’s College
of Agriculture. When Filipinos returned to the campus
after World War II, they found virtually nothing.

The needs of the Philippines’ devastated lands for
trained men were clear and immediate. The faculty began
to put the broken pieces back together again, but it was
plain that the rebuilding would take decades.

In 1952, Cornell University’s New York State College
of Agriculture formed a partnership with them. The ob-
jective: to help the Filipinos rewuild, not in a couple of
generations, but in a few years. Twelve top faculty mem-
bers from Cornell have spent a year or more as regular
members of the staff. Filipinos have gone to New York
to take part in programs there. |

Now, Philippine agriculture has a new lease on life—
and Filipinos say that the Cornell partnership should
receive much of the credit. Farms are at last big enough
to support their tenants. Weeds and insects are being
brought under control. Grassland yields are up. And the
college enrollment has leaped from little more than a
hundred in 1945 to more than four thousand today.

In Peru, the North Carolina College of Agriculture
and Engineering is helping to strengthen the country’s
agricultural research; North Carolina State College is

I. ADDITION to teaching and conducting
research, America’s colleges and universities
offer a wide range of community services.
At the left are hundreds of curriculum
materials available at one state university.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA

Nox: of its services can function
effectively unless higher education
remains free. Freedom to pursue
knowledge is the strongest attraction
of college and university teaching.

helping to develop Peruvian research in textiles; and the
University of North Carolina co-operates in a program
of technical assistance in sanitary engineering. In Liberia,
Prairie View A. and M. College of Texas (the Negro
college of the Texas A. and M. system) is working with
the Booker Washington Agricultural and Industrial Insti-
tute to expand vocational education. Syracuse University
is producing audio-visual aids for the Middle East, par-
ticularly Iran. The University of Tennessee is providing
home-economics specialists to assist in training similar
specialists in India. The University of Oregon is working
with Nepal in establishing an educational system where
none existed before (only eleven persons in the entire
country of 8.5 million had had any professional training
in education). Harvard is providing technical advice and
assistance to Latin American countries in developing
and maintaining nutrition programs.

HUS emerges a picture of American higher edu-

cation, 1958. Its diversity, its hope that it can

handle large numbers of students without losing
sight of quality in the process, its willingness to extend
its services far beyond its classrooms and even its home
towns: all these things are true of America’s colleges and
universities today. They can be seen.

But not as visible, like a subsurface flaw in the earth’s
apparently solid crust, lie some facts that may alter the
landscape considerably. Not enough young people, for
instance, are currently working their way through the
long process of preparation to become college and uni-
versity teachers. Others, who had already embarked on
faculty careers, are leaving the profession. Scholars and
teachers are becoming one of the American economy’s
scarcest commodities.

Salary scales, as described earlier in this article, are
largely responsible for the scarcity, but not entirely.

Three faculty members at the University of Oklahoma
sat around a table not long ago and tried to explain why
they are staying where they are. All are young. All are
brilliant men who have turned down lucrative jobs in
business or industry. All have been offered higher-paying
posts at other universities.

 

 

 

Be
the professions, the arts—college
graduates are in demand. Thus society pays
tribute to the college teacher.

It relies upon him today as never before.

 

 

 

‘It’s the atmosphere, call it the teaching climate, that
keeps me here,”’ said one.

“Teachers want to know they are appreciated, that
their ideas have a chance,” said another. “‘] suppose you
might say we like being a part of our institution, not
members of a manpower pool.”

‘““Oklahoma has made a real effort to provide an op-
portunity for our opinions to count,” said the third. “‘Our
advice may be asked on anything from hiring a new pro-
fessor to suggesting salary increases.”

The University of Oklahoma, like many other institu-
tions but unlike many more, has a self-governing faculty.
“The by-products of the university government,” says
Oklahoma’s Professor Cortez A. M. Ewing, “‘may prove
to be its most important feature. In spite of untoward
conditions—heavy teaching loads, low salaries, and mar-
ginal physical and laboratory resources, to mention a

few—the spirit of co-operation is exceeded only by the

dedication of the faculty.”’

The professor worth his title must be free. He must be
free to explore and probe and investigate. He must be
free to pursue the truth, wherever the chase may take
him. This, if the bread-and-butter necessities of salary
scales can be met, is and will always be the great attrac-
tion of college and university teaching. We must take
care that nothing be allowed to diminish it.

ONE is the old caricature of the absent-minded,
impractical academician. The image of the col-
lege professor has changed, just as the image of

the college boy and the college alumnus has changed. If
fifty years ago a college graduate had to apologize for his
education and even conceal it as he entered the business
world, he does so no longer. Today society demands the
educated man. Thus society gives its indirect respect to
the man who taught him, and links a new reliance with
that respect.

It is more than need which warrants this esteem and
reliance. The professor is aware of his world and
travels to its coldest, remotest corners to learn more
about it. Nor does he overlook the pressing matters at
the very edge of his campus. He takes part in the Inter-
national Geophysical Year’s study of the universe; he
attacks the cancer in the human body and the human
spirit; he nourishes the art of living more readily than
the art of killing; he is the frontiersman everywhere. He
builds and masters the most modern of tools from the
cyclotron to the mechanical brain. He remembers the
artist and the philosopher above the clamor of the
machine.

The professor still has the color that his students recall,

RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE :

 

 

 

 

and he still gets his applause in the spring at the end of
an inspiring semester or at the end of a dedicated career.
But today there is a difference. It is on him that the nation
depends more than ever. On him the free world relies—
just as the enslaved world does, too.

R. SELMAN A. WAKSMAN of Rutgers was
not interested in a specific, useful topic. Rather,

 

a spadeful of dirt.

A Russian emigrant, born in a thatched house in
Priluka, ninety miles from the civilization of Kiev, he
came to the United States at the age of seventeen and
enrolled in Rutgers. Early in his undergraduate career he
became interested in the fundamental aspects of living
systems. And, as a student of the College of Agriculture,
he looked to the soil. For his senior project he dug a
number of trenches on the college farm and took soil
samples in order to count the different colonies of bacteria.

But when he examined the samples under his micro-
scope, Waksman saw some strange colonies, different
from either bacteria or fungi. One of his professors said
they were only “‘higher bacteria.”” Another, however,
identified them as little-known organisms usually called
actinomyces.

Waksman was graduated in 1915. As a research as-
sistant in soil bacteriology, he began working toward a
master’s degree. But he soon began to devote more and
more time to soil fungi and the strange actinomyces. He
was forever testing soils, isolating cultures, transferring
cultures, examining cultures, weighing, analyzing.

Studying for his Ph.D. at the University of California,
he made one finding that interested him particularly.
Several groups of microbes appeared to live in harmony,
while others fed on their fellows or otherwise inhibited
their growth. In 1918 Waksman returned to Rutgers as
a microbiologist, to continue his research and teaching.

RUTGERS UNIVERSITY

OME research by faculty
members strikes people as “‘point-
less.’ It was one such
pointless project that led
Dr. Selman A. Waksman (left) to
find streptomycin. Good basic
research is a continuing need. .

 

he was fascinated by the organisms that live in:

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In 1923 one of his pupils, Rene Dubos, isolated tyro-
thricin and demonstrated that chemical substances from
microbes found in the soil can kill disease-producing
germs. In 1932 Waksman studied the fate of tuberculosis
bacteria in the soil. In 1937 he published three papers on
antagonistic relations among soil micro-organisms. He
needed only a nudge to make him turn all his attention
to what he was later to call “‘antibiotics.”’

The war provided that nudge. Waksman organized his

laboratory staff for the campaign. He soon decided to
focus on the organisms he had first met as an undergradu-
ate almost thirty years before, the actinomyces. The first
antibiotic substance to be isolated was called actinomy-
cin, but it was so toxic that it could have no clinical
application; other antibiotics turned out to be the same.
It was not until the summer of 1943 that the breakthrough
came.

One day a soil sample from a heavily manured field
was brought into the laboratory. The workers processed
it as they had processed thousands of others before. But
this culture showed remarkable antagonism to disease-
producing bacteria. It was a strain—streptomyces griseus
—that Waksman had puzzled over as a student. Clinical
tests proved its effectiveness against some forms of pneu-
monia, gonorrhea, dysentery, whooping cough, syphilis,
and, most spectacularly, TB.

Streptomycin went into production quickly. Along
with the many other antibiotics that came from the soil,
it was labeled a “‘miracle drug.’? Waksman received the
Nobel Prize and the heartfelt praise of millions through-
out the world. 7

In a sense, discoveries like Dr. Waksman’s are acci-
dents; they are unplanned and unprogrammed. They
emerge from scholarly activity which, judged by appear-
ances or practical yardsticks, is aimless. But mankind
has had enough experience with such accidents to have
learned, by now, that “‘pure research’’—the pursuit of
knowledge for the sake of knowledge alone—is its best
assurance that accidents will continue to happen. When
Chicago’s still-active Emeritus Professor Herman Schles-
inger gol curious about the chemical linkage in a rare
and explosive gas called diobrane, he took the first steps
toward tne development of a new kind of jet and rocket
fuel—accidentally. When scientists at Harvard worked
on the fractionization of blood, they were accidentally
making possible the development of a substitute for whole
blood which was so desperately needed in World War II.

But what about the University of Texas’s Humanities
Research Center, set up to integrate experiments in lin-
guistics, criticism, and other fields? Or the Missouri
expedition to Cyprus which excavated an Early-Bronze-

 

 

I FIND the most promising young
people of America and then provide them
with exceptional educational opportunities:
that is the challenge. Above, medical
school professors vote on a candidate.

 

 

 

BAYLOR UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

Age site at Episkopi three years ago and is planning to
go back again this year? Or the research on folk ballads
at the University of Arkansas? In an age of ICBM’s, what
is the value of this work?

If there is more to human destiny than easing our toils
or enriching our pocketbooks, then such work is im-
portant. Whatever adds to man’s knowledge will inevi-
tably add to his stature, as well. To make sure that higher
education can keep providing the opportunities for such

research is one of 1958 man’s best guarantees that human.

life will not sink to meaninglessness.

LFRED NORTH WHITEHEAD once said, “In
the conditions of modern life, the rule is abso-
lute: the race which does not value trained

intelligence is doomed.”

In recent months, the American people have begun to
re-learn the truth of Whitehead’s statement. For years
the nation has taken trained intelligence for granted—or,
worse, sometimes shown contempt for it, or denied the
conditions under which trained intelligence might flour-
ish. That millions are now recognizing the mistake—and
recognizing it before it is too late—is fortunate.

Knowing how to solve the problem, however, and
knowing how to provide the means for solution, is more
difficult.

But again America is fortunate. There is, among us, a
group who not only have been ahead of the general
public in recognizing the problem but who also have the
understanding and the power, now, to solve it. That group
is the college alumni and alumnae.

Years ago Dr. Hu Shih, the scholar who was then
Chinese ambassador to the United States, said America’s
greatest contribution to education was its revolutionary
concept of the alumnus: its concept of the former student
as an understanding, responsible partner and champion.

Today, this partner and champion of American higher
education has an opportunity for service unparalleled in
our history. He recognizes, better than anyone, the es-
sential truth in the statement to which millions, finally,
now subscribe: that upon higher education depends, in
large part, our society’s physical and intellectual sur-
vival. He recognizes, better than anyone else, the truth
in the statement that the race can attain even loftier goals
ahead, by strengthening our system of higher education
in all its parts. As an alumnus—first by understanding,
and then by exercising his leadership—he holds within
his own grasp the means of doing so.

Rarely has one group in our society—indeed, every
member of the group—had the opportunity and the
ability for such high service.

 

E of high quality for as
many as are qualified for it has been a
cherished American dream. Today

we are too close to realizing that dream
not to intensify our striving for it.

 

 

TULANE UNIVERSITY

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

FELICIA ANTHENELLI
The University of Chicago

DAVID A. BURR
The University of Oklahoma

JEAN DINWOODEY
The American Alumni Council

DAN H. FENN, JR.
Harvard University

RANDOLPH L. FORT
Emory University

CORBIN GWALTNEY

The Johns Hopkins University

L. FRANKLIN HEALD

The University of New Hampshire

WILLIAM SCHRAMM
The University of Pennsylvania

VERNE A. STADTMAN
The University of California

FREDERIC A. STOTT
Phillips Academy, Andover

FRANK J. TATE
The Ohio State University

ERIK WENSBERG
Columbia University

CHARLES E. WIDMAYER>
Dartmouth College

CHESLEY WORTHINGTON
Brown University

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Photographs: —RICH HARTMANN, MAGNUM

Typesetting: | AMERICAN TYPESETTING CORPORATION,

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Printing: CUNEO PRESS, KOKOMO, INDIANA

Paper “  CICO-DUOSET BY CHAMPION-INTERNATIONAL
COMPANY OF LAWRENCE, MASSACHUSETTS

PRINTED IN U.S.A.

 

 

Chapter News

HOUSTON

About fifty alumni and guests
attended a breakfast March 13, at
the Houston Club, in honor of
Marvin Collie, ’40, who was recent-
ly named president of the National
Bank of Commerce in Houston.
Ted H. Riggs, ’38, president, pre-
sided, and spoke briefly on Mar-
vin's honor. The new bank presi-
dent responded, praising Washing-
ton and Lee and its alumni.

PHILADELPHIA

Alumni of the Philadelphia area
met on February 26 and elected
the following officers: president,
jJanies ‘T. Trundle, “50; vice-presi-
dent, William L. Leopold, ’39; sec-
retary, Robert F. Erwin, ’52; treas-
urer, John William Dodd, ’53.

- Some future projects were dis-
cussed, one to establish a scholar-
ship for a deserving boy from the
area, the other to establish a place-
ment service for graduates seek-
ing employment in the area. The
group also discussed the possibility
of holding a joint meeting oc-
casionally with alumni chapters of
V.M.I. and University of Virginia.

ROANOKE

Roanoke alumni met March 11
at the Shenandoah Club for din-
ner, and heard short talks by Dean
Frank J. Gilliam, James D. Farrar,
assistant dean of students; football
coach Lee McLaughlin; and Wil-
liam C. Washburn, new alumni
secretary. About 65 attended. Pre-
siding was R. T. Edwards, ’35.

Officers elected were: president,
H. Thomas Martin, ’41; vice-presi-
dent, R. W. Spessard, ’39; secretary-
treasurer, Robert W. Kime, ’51.
Board members installed were:
W. M. Minter, ’14; Louis N. Hock,
27; 20 faivin. 1. Burton, ‘25:
Randolph Frantz, ’22; A. B. Levin,
‘42, Piece 4. Gromim, '42° and
William C. Breckenridge, ’41.

SPRING 1958

WASHINGTON

The March luncheon meeting
of the Washington alumni was held
March 14 at the Burlington Hotel,
with president John McWhorter,
‘47, presiding. Dean Clayton E.
Willams of the Law School and
William C. Washburn, ’40, who
will succeed Cy Young as Alumni

Secretary on July 1, represented
the University. Dean Williams, in-
troduced by Graham Morison, ’32,
spoke on the University and _ its
future development.

Art Smith, ’41, reminded the
group of plans for the dinner-
dance on May 17 at the Army-Navy
Country Club.

 

 

Due to the inclusion of the lengthy
supplement on higher education in
this issue, our space for campus
news and class notes has had to be
eut down. 1f your class note, birth,
or marriage is not included in this
issue, please look for it in the sum-
mer issue, due in August.

 

 

 

9 9 Hartow S. DIXxon, eighty years

Gd DUE stil achive, was sent by the
Durham, North Carolina, Gideon Society
to Miami, Florida recently to help the
Gideons there place thirty thousand Bibles
in the hotels and motels of Miami and
Miami Beach. His task was to interview
and get permission of the managers and
owners to place the Bibles in their guest
rooms. Mr. Dixon was presented a special
Bible by the Miami Gideons as an expres-
sion of appreciation for all his work.

Dr. S. C. Linp has been Consultant to
Union Carbide Nuclear company in Oak
Ridge, Tennessee, since 1948. He is honor-
ary vice-president for Chemistry, Interna-
tional Congress of Radiation Chemistry.

03 Dr. D. V. GUTHRIE retired from

teaching at Louisiana State University in
1955, taught two years at Emory and
Henry college, and has now retired for the
second time. He resides in Waynesboro,
Virginia.

09 THE Rev. DEVALL L. GWATHMEY
is historiographer for the Diocese of
Southwest Virginia of the Episcopal
church. He is retired from the ministry
now, but still helps occasionally with the
parish church in Wytheville, Virginia.

JoHN J. Forrer retired from the Vir-
ginia Department of Highways in 1952,
and became Executive Director of the
Virginia Asphalt Association. He is the
father of three children and grandfather
of ten.

14 Dr. DANIEL C. BUCKHANAN plans to
retire in June, and will live near Easton,
Maryland.

15 AV. OW. CASH, JR. was one of a

hundred science teachers in the United
States to receive an award from _ the
Science ‘Teacher Achievement Recognition
competition. He was presented $250 in
cash as part of his award, which encour-
ages teachers in the nation to develop
and report new ideas in the teaching of
science. dice Das been. science. teacher at
Eagle Rock High school, Virginia, for
the past few years, after retiring from
industry.

/ 7 JOHN R. BRAND has lived in Hobbs,
New Mexico, since 1930, and has been
district judge for the past five years. He
reports there are eleven Washington and
Lee law graduates practicing law or serv-

37

 

ing on the bench in New Mexico. John
has three daughters and ten grandchild-
ren, all of whom he and Mrs. Brand
visited on a trip back East last May.

Dr. CHarRLtes W. McNitT is now living
in California. He sold his home in Cobbs
Creek, Virginia. Dr. McNitt’s address is:
care of Dr. D. R. Horton, 205 North
Kingston, San Mateo, California.

18 Jupce Harry M. Apams of Mem-
phis, ‘Tennessee, has announced he will re-
tire at the end of August, after 24 years
on the bench. A newspaper editorial in
Memphis declared, ‘““Harry Adams is a liv-
ing example of that classic approach to
public office, which begins with a deter-
mined young man teaching a country
school while getting together the money
for education in law. As an attorney in
the state’s largest city, and an officer of
its bar association, he won the admira-
tion of others in the profession.”

19 Dr. SAMUEL A. ANDERSON, JR. iS

director of the Consultation and Evalua-
tion Clinic in Richmond, Virginia, a
clinic primarily for retarded children.
He is still practicing pediatrics and teach-
ing at the Medical College of Virginia.
He has one grandaughter now, born last
August 28.

22 VERBON E. KEMP, executive secre-

tary of the Virginia Chamber of Com-
merce, conducted a party of 285 Virginians
on a January Mediterranean cruise of
about three weeks to the Canary Islands,
Tangier, Italy, Cannes, Monaco, and
Spain. It was the eighth such cruise
sponsored by the State Chamber since
19z1, departing and docking at Norfolk.
Verbon and Mrs. Kemp are planning an-
other tour to the Belgian World’s Fair in
September, and a Caribbean cruise next
January. Verbon does a weekly radio
program, “Kemp's Conversations” on Ssta-
tion WRVA, each Saturday at 6:30 p.m.
The Kemps have three children: Eric is
a doctor, taking postgraduate work at
the Medical College of Virginia; Ann is
married to a doctor; Wilson is in the
Army, with headquarters in Toyko, and
plans to enter medical college upon his
return.

James (“BoorEy”) Maptson is still prac-
ticing law with the firm of Madison,
Madison, Files and Shell, with offices in
Bastrop and Monroe, Louisiana. He is the

38

father of three boys. The eldest, James
Pierce, received his academic and law
degrees at Louisiana State University and
is now associated with his father’s firm.
The next son, John Yerger, received his
bachelor’s degree from Louisiana ‘Tech in
February, is married, and has one child.
The youngest Madison son is George
Flood, still in high schocl.

EpGAR JACKSON is still editor of the Tide-
water News, in Franklin, Virginia, and
writes a weekly column titled, “The
Goober Gazette.” He had a trip around
the world and a tour of Western Europe
in 1956. Edgar writes, “My classmates who
remember me as rather on the skinny
side may be interested in knowing that
my doctor has ordered me to shed thirty
pounds.” .

2 4 Dr. Stuart A. MACCORKLE is in

Seoul, Korea, where he is organizing
the work in Public Administration at
Seoul National University of Korea for
the University of Minnesota. He will be in
the Far East till about Christmas. Dr.
MacCorkle is on leave from the Univer-
sity of Texas, where he is director of
the Institute of Public Affairs, and pro-
fessor of government. He is the author
of five books and more than fifty articles
on state and city government. He has
been a member of the Austin, Texas, City
Council, and was mayor pro-tem_ of
Austin from 1951-53. He has been listed
in ““Who’s Who in America” since 1942.

25 E. Morris ABERNATHY has moved

from Virginia Beach, Virginia, to a new
home about halfway between Virginia
Beach and Norfolk, where his office is
located. He has three children—the oldest
daughter, Patsy, is married and _ teaches
school in Lockhaven, Pennsylvania. ‘The
youngest daughter, Maria, is a junior at
Randolph-Macon Woman's College, and
his son, Jan, attends Norfolk Academy.

26 Rurus A. FULTON has been elected

to the board of directors of Hamilton
Watch Company. He has been marketing
vice-president at Hamilton for the past
two years.

Witit1am A. McDonoucu has been elected

a vice-president of the Kudner Agency,
Incorporated of New York City. He is
an advertising account executive for
Frigidaire’s sales campaign.

3 2 Ross L. MALONE has been elected
president-nominee of the American Bar
Association. A native of Roswell, New
Mexico, he will be one of the youngest
presidents of the association at the age
of 47. He served as deputy attorney gen-
eral in 1952 and 1953, and was instru-

mental in establishing procedure under
which the U.S. Department of Justice
consults with the American Bar Associa-
tion as to qualifications of appointees to
the federal judiciary.

Paut A. HorsTeIn, mayor of Lexington,
has been elected president of the Rock-
bridge County Bar Association. This is
his second tour of duty as president in
the past ten years. He has practiced law
in Lexington since his graduation in
1932, is married, and has one daughter.

33 THomas P. Dousuty, JR. iS asso-

ciate chief of the Foreign Investment
Guaranty staff, an element of the United
States Department’s International Coop-
eration Administration. He and his fam-
ily live at 1907 Rosemary Hills Drive,
Silver Spring, Maryland.

35 Dr. Ropert H. McCAuLey, Jr. is

with the Pan-American Sanitary Bureau
in Puebla, Pue, Mexico. He and his wife
have three children, Robert III, Sally, and
Colin. They plan to return to the United
States in September.

Tuomas A. Morris sent a contribution to
the Alumni Fund, saying, with tongue in
cheek, “It gives me pleasure to send you
some good Northwestern money—they give
it to me as a lecturer in production
management, which means conducting a
class of 4o-some each semester in pur-
chasing, in the evening division of the
Business School (of Northwestern Univer-
sity). Some of my W. and L. instructors
like John Graham would likely be un-
comfortable if they knew I was leading
a class. The most unlikely things happen.”

CLAIBOURNE H. DARDEN has incorporated
a new company—Caterers, Incorporated, in
Greensboro, North Carolina. The com-
pany performs an automatic catering serv-
ice, and serves industrial plants in that
area.

36 Dr. KENNETH G. MACDONALD is sec-
retary and treasurer of the Kanawha
Medical Society, and secretary and treas-
urer of the West Virginia chapter, Amer-
ican College of Surgeons. He is the father
of two sons, Kenneth, Jr., and Frank.

W. MacruperR Drake has been promoted
to Associate Professor this year at South-
western Louisiana Institute.

37 NorMaNn C. SmitH is president of

the Dallas Geological Society, and is
still a consulting photogeologist. He has
been active in organizing the Dallas-
Fort Worth Council of Scientific Societies,
concerned with surveying current educa-
tional needs in communities, and in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

furnishing counsel on scientific subjects to
Civic agencies.

DAvin B. WHARTON has returned to the
United States for a tour of duty, after
serving in American embassies in Afgan-
istan, New Zealand, Indonesia, and most
recently as consul general in Bermuda.

Kent Forster and his family have re-
turned from eighteen months spent in
Finland, where he was a Fulbright lec-
turer in History and International Af-
fairs at the University of Helsinki, and
Fulbright exchange lecturer at the Uni-
versity of Copenhagen.

CHARLES “T. CAROLAN has been elected
treasurer of Suburban Propane Gas Cor-
poration. He started with the company
ten years ago, as senior accountant, was
promoted to manager of the accounting
department, and in 1953, he was elected
assistant treasurer. He is the father of
five children.

38 BEN L. ANDERSON has been pro-

moted to colonel in the army. He is sta-
tioned in Heidelberg, Germany, where he
is commander of Headquarters Special
Troops, U.S. Army Europe Headquarters.
He has been in the army since 1941.

ROBERT EDWARD SURLES is practicing law
in Summerville, Georgia. He is a member
of the board of directors of the Farmers
and Merchants Bank there, and also a
board member of a local insurance firm.

FRED E. WarTEeERS is southern sales man-
ager of Central Fuel Corporation, a
wholesale coal concern, in Chattanooga,
Tennessee. He and his wife are the par-
ents of three children—Gayle, twelve;
Rickey, nine; and Billy, three.

PAuL M. MILLER is studying the Chinese
language at the Foreign Service Institute
Field Language School at ‘Taiebung,

Taiwan, and will be there for about’

eighteen months.

C. R. SKINNER is the assistant sales man-
ager of Austenal, Incorporated, New York
City. He was purchasing agent for Pratt
and Whitney Aircraft Company for fif-
teen years before joining Austenal, which
sells investment castings for high-tem-
perature applications to the jet engine
missile and rocket industries.

V. ‘T. STRICKLER was campaign chairman
for the 1958 Cancer Crusade in Newport
News, Hampton, and Warwick, Virginia.
He is a member of the exclusive Million
Dollar Club of Aetna Life Insurance
Company, a member of Peninsula Life
Underwriters Association, past president
of Hampton Insurance and Real Estate
Association, and president of the Peninsu-
la chapter of Washington and Lee Alum-
ni. He is a member of the First Baptist
church in Newport News, and teaches a
Sunday School Class there.

SPRING 1958

 

JOuN ©. Prey, 90. will ‘take over as
president of the University of Vermont
on July 1. He has been seruing as
clerk of the United States Supreme Court
since 1956, and was dean of the law
school at George Washington University.

40 ROLAND S. FREEMAN has been ap-
pointed general manager of Bond-Howell
Lumber company in Jacksonville, Florida.
He has been with the building materials
firm since his graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee.

James W. HAm™etr has been transferred
by Southern Bell Telephone and Tele-

MARVIN K. COLLIE, ’40, is now president of
the National Bank of Commerce of Hous-
ton, Texas, the city’s third largest bank.
He is a tax attorney with the law firm
of Vinson, Elkins, Weems, and Searles.

 

graph company from Atlanta, Georgia,
to New Orleans.

42 Roperrt C. WALKER headed the

drive for one million dollars for the pro-
posed community hospital in Williams-
burg, Virginia. Bobby is executive vice-
president of the Peninsula Bank and
Trust Company in Williamsburg, and is
chairman of the board of deacons of Wil-
liamsburg Presbyterian church.

43 Dr. RIcHARD H. SHEPHERD, pro-

fessor of medicine at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, was one of six nationally-known
medical speakers at the eighth, annual.
meeting of the Oklahoma Academy . of
General Practice on. February 3-4, in
Tulsa, Oklahoma. He spoke on pulmen-
ary function testing and the physiologi-
cal management of patients with pul-
monary disorders. He and his wife have
three sons, Bill, Ricky, and Joe.

MAJOR ALEXANDER M. Mats is assigned
to the Pentagon, Washington, D.C., now.
He and Mrs. Maish and their twin boys,
two years old, live at 304 Princeton Boule-
vard, Alexandria, Virginia.

Dr. ROBERT FRANCIS JOHNSON was promot-
ed last fall to associate professor of Bibli-
cal languages and Biblical theology at
the Episcopal Theological Seminary of
the Southwest, in Austin, Texas.

E. F. Ross, Jr., is the new mayor of Deep-
haven, Minnesota. He is in the life in-
surance business, and for fun, coaches the
high school wrestling team, and peewee
football. He and his wife, Dorothy, have
three sons.

f 4 EDWARD C. WADDINGTON, JR. is as-

sistant district manager of the Delaware
otice of the F. A. Bartlett Tree Expert
Company. The Waddingtons have two
daughters, the youngest of which was born
last June.

45 David W. FOERSTER has been chosen

president-elect of the Jacksonville, Flori-
da, Bar Association. Dink and Stelle were
to move into their new home in May,
along with the two little Foersters, David,
Jr., aged five, and Margaret, one year old.

S. ALLEN MCcALLISTER has been asso-
ciated with the E. I. duPont Photo Pro-
ducts departments, Parlin, New Jersey,
since 1951, doing research on color pho-
tographic films. He is a deacon in the
Presbyterian church, and a member of
the Board of Education of East Brunswick
Township. He is the father of one son,
Timothy Evans, almost two years old.

47 MITCHELL L. Harris is president of
the Jay Distributing Company of Miami,

ag

 

 

Florida. It is a company which operates
drug and houseware departments in 1200
supermarkets from Key West to the Caro-
linas.

48 Epwin G. ADAIR, JR., received the

1957 distinguished service award of the
Culpeper County Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, in Culpeper, Virginia, in January.
He is a partner in a Culpeper insurance
firm. He is also an elder and superintend-
ent of the Sunday School of the Presby-
terian church there, a director of the Cul-
peper County Retail Merchants’ Associa-
tion and the Culpeper Chamber of Com-
merce, treasurer of the Cancer Society, and
a member of the executive council of the
Girl Scouts.

49 WILLIAM Roy Ricz, besides being

Municipal Judge of the city of Dunbar,
West Virginia, is supervising prepara-
tion of abstracts-of-title on approximately
2,000,000 acres of oil and gas leaseholds
and fee property for the United States
Fuel Gas Company of Charleston, West
Virginia.

Caprain O. D. HAmrRick, JR., stationed
at Clark Air Force Base in Manila, Philip-
pine Islands, will return to the United
States in June.

50 Joe Reese, JR. is a Life and Quali-

fying member of the Millon Dollar
Round Table of the National Association
of Life Underwriters. Membership in
this group represents the highest produc-
tion honor awarded to life underwriters.

Last year, he became a member of Penn
Mutual’s “Top Twenty-five,” having
ranked fifteenth nationally in a_ field
force of over 1300 agents. He is married
and has two children, and lives in
Meadowbrook, Pennsylvania. He is a di-
rector of the Philadelphia Estate Plan-
ning Council, past treasurer of the Ab-
ington Lions Club, and is program chair-
man for the Philadelphia chapter, Ameri-
can Society of Chartered Life Under-
writers.

Dr. Roperr H. MAUCK is a resident in or-
thopedic surgery at the Medical College of
Virginia, in Richmond, and plans to go
into private practice next year.

Marion G. ROBERTSON was guest minister
at the Baptist church in Lexington re-
cently. A graduate of Yale Law School,
he is now studying at Biblical ‘Theological
Seminary in New York, and is assistant
pastor of a church on Long Island. He
has been doing work with exchange stu-
dents under the auspices of the Inter-
Varsity Fellowship. During the Billy
Graham Crusade in Madison Square
Garden, he served as a counselor.

51 Joun K. BOARDMAN, jr. is now

vice-president and a member of the board
of directors of the Sam Moore Chairs,
Incorporated. The firm makes upholstered
furniture with plants in Christiansburg,
Virginia and Greeneville, ‘Tennessee.

W. H. Kyte, Jr. is district sales manager
in Cincinnati for Pickands Mather and
company.

Dr. MicHAEL RapbuHOovIC is completing
his military service as Army Medical of-
ficer at Fort Lewis, Washington. He is
married to the former Beverly Boch of
Washington, D.C., and they have a
daughter, Dean, nine months old.

RoBERT W. KNupbsEN has been transfer-
red from Los Angeles to the Cleveland
office by duPont. ‘The Knudsens have
four children.

 

1958 in duPont Hall the following:

 

NOTICE ‘TO ALUMNI

The nominating committee, appointed by the President of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., nominates for election to the Alumni Board
of ‘Trustees, at the meeting of the Corporation to be held at 2 p.m. on June 5,

ERNARD LEVIN, ’42, Norfolk, Virginia
PAuL M. SHUFORD, 43, Richmond, Virginia
CLARK B. WINTER, ’37, New York, New York

The committee also nominates for election as Alumni representatives on
the University Athletic Committee the following:
PRESTON BRowN, ’42, Lexington, Virginia
Joun L. Crist, JR., ’45 Charlottee, N. C.

EDWARD S. GRAVES, 30, Chairman
CHARLES F. CLARK, JR., ’38
EpwaArb H. RIETZE, ’25

 

 

40

W. Gordon ILER completed law school at
Indiana University last August, and is
now practicing with the firm of Vincent
and Gwin, in Owensboro, Kentucky.

Rospert C. Evans has been an insurance
adjuster with the Badger State Mutual
Casualty Company since leaving law
school. On January 6, 1958, he entered
law practice with Colonel John H. Sme-
berg, under the firm name of Smeberg
and Evans, with offices at 8-A South
Brown = street, Rhinelander, Wisconsin.
He and his wife are the parents of twins,
a boy and girl, now nearly three years
old.

52 WILLIAM E. WooprooFr has been

transferred from Richmond, Virginia, to
the Chicago office of the Southern Plant-
er, America’s oldest farm paper, with
a circulation of over 420,000. Bill is man-
ager of the Illinois office. His address is
850 DeWitt Place, Chicago 11, Illinois.

Tuomas N. Harris is a control buyer for
John Plain and Company of Chicago, a
wholesale mail order distributor.

Epwarp E. ELuis was recalled to active
duty with the U.S. Air Force on March
1, 1957, and is now stationed in France.
He had passed the New York bar ex-
amination and was associated with the
law firm of Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sun-
derland, and Kiend! in New York City be-
fore his call.

RICHARD Q. CALVELLI is now representing
D. Van Nostrand Company, Incorporated,
textbook publishers. He is assigned to the
college department sales force, and is
now calling on college professors in New
York City, its metropolitan area, and six
Midwestern states.

53 JAROSLAV A. DRABEK was awarded

his LL.B. degree at George Washington
University on February 22, and is work-
ing with the law firm of Green and
Ehrmantraut in Washington, D.C. He
passed the District of Columbia Bar Ex-
amination in December.

GroRGE MAYNARD, III, is associated with
Cabaniss and Johnston in Birmingham,
Alabama.

Ropert FREDERICK DuGuaAy is a trust ad-
ministrator for the First National Bank
and Trust Company of Fairfield County,
in Greenwich, Connecticut. He attends
the Graduate School of New York Uni-
versity at night, working toward his
M.B.A. in banking and _ finance.

W. E. Rawtincs has completed eighteen
months of sea duty aboard the destroyer,
USS Berry, with extended cruises to South
America and Europe. He is now stationed
at Panama City, Florida, but expects to

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

be released in: the fall, so he can return
to his business career.

54 JAck A. SITES <spent. cqighteen

months of his two-year stint with the
army in Germany, at Garmisch and Kaiser-
slautern. After his discharge in February,
i957, he: joined the Goodyear Tire and
Rubber Company’s training program in
Philadelphia. He is now a_ tabulating
supervisor for the Goodyear district of-
fices in Albany, New York. He is married
to the former Patricia Thomas of Hagers-
town, Maryland.

C. KR. Hivn, Je: became a member of the
law firm of Love, Abbot, and Hill, in Fay-
etteville, West Virginia, in January of
this year.

H. G. LEGcETT, JR. is now associated with
Leggett-Stokes company in Lynchburg,
Virginia, as a trainee.

s5 THOMAS W. RosBIns, JR. is a third

year medical student at Duke University
Medical School, and plans to receive his
M.D. next June.

5 6 RupyArD C. ABBOTT is now special

representative in Roanoke, Virginia, for
the Life Insurance Company of Virginia,
in association with Wallace B. Garst, at
306 Coulter Building. Rud and Janet
live on Yellow Mountain Road in Roa-
noke.

CHARLES R. BEALL, JR. is serving in Ger-
many with the Third Infantry Division.
He is a team leader in Company B of
the division’s 38th infantry.

SAM H. Berry has returned to Fort Worth,
‘rexas, tor duty at the Nayal Reserve
Training Center there.

ANDREW B. GREENMAN has formed an ad-
vertising and public relations agency, the
Gross-Greenman Company, at 1909 Har-
rison street, Hollywood, Florida. He serves
clients in the resort, industrial, and real
estate field throughout the South Florida
area. He was associated with Newman,
Stern, Mandell Advertising company of
Miami Beach, before going in the army
for his tour of duty.

J. Roperr McHEnry is a social studies
and geography teacher at Nether Provi-
dence Junior High school, and _ also
Serves as freshman lacrosse coach at
Swarthmore College.

E. HARRISON STONE is a Lieutenant (j.g.)
in the U.S. Navy, and is stationed aboard
the U.S.S. Blackbird, care of Fleet Post
Office, New York City.

Witey R. Wricut, Jr. has been promoted
to first lieutenant at Fort Eustis, Virginia,
where he is a member of the U.S. Army
Transportation Corps. He is assistant

SPRING 1958

courts and boards officer in the corps’
Headquarters ‘Troops.

5 STEPHEN MAYER EHUDIN is enrolled

in the school of law at the University of
Maryland.

RICHARD B. RAINES is now stationed at
Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam
Houston, Texas. He took his basic com-
bat training at Fort Jackson, South Car-
olina.

CHARLES B. RICHARDSON is in the U.S.
Navy flight program, and is stationed
at Pensacola, Florida.

JAMES R. STOCKTON, JR. is a second lieu-
tenant in the Marine Corps. He received
his commission at Quantico, Virginia, on
February 15.

58 ROBERT W. CARNEY has been. sta-

tioned: at Kindley Air Force Base mm
Bermuda since last July. After another
year in the service, he plans to resume
his college education.

 

1901

JOHN MICHAEL CorsBetT died February 20,
1958. He was highly regarded as one of
the most brilliant lawyers in South Texas.
He began his practice of law in Bay City,
Texas, after his graduation in 1901, and
lived there all the rest of his life. He was
one of the organizers of the Texas Gulf
Sulphur Company, and for years was its
chief counsel. |

1904

Dr. WILLIAM COLE Davis died February
23, 1958, in Caracas, Venezuela, of pneu-
monia contracted while he: was on a
visit to South America. He was a retired
doctor, and had served as post surgeon
at V.M.I., and medical director of By-
berry Hospital in Philadelphia and Nor-
ristown State Hospital, Pennsylvania. He
had also served about ten years in the
Army Medical Corps.

1908

EpWARD HENDERSON DEETs, a retired civil
engineer, died February 24, 1958 of heart
failure. He was a resident of Montgom-
ery county, Maryland, the greater part

of his life. He was employed in several
capacities during his career by the Mary-
land State Roads Commission, and with
engineering companies. From 1930 until
his retirement on January first of this year,
he was Right of Way examiner for the
Maryland Road Commission. He was a
Life Member of the American Society
of Civil Engineers, a thirty-second degree
Mason, and a member of the Shrine. He
was a member and former trustee of the
Neelsville Presbyterian church.

1910

HENRY Knox Smartr died January 12,
1958. He made his home in Nashville,
‘Tennessee.

1911

Dr. Casstus AUGUSTUS BOONE died Febru-
ary 27, 1957. He had made his home in
Louisville, Kentucky.

1912

CHARLES PELL Lewis died May 22, 1957
after a brief illness, in St. Albans, West
Virginia.

1919

THOMAS R. COULTER died January 4,
1958. His home was in Fairfield, Con-
necticut.

1927

The Rev. SAMUEL TALMAGE MAGANN died
March 1%; 1058, Hie was. retired, and
lived in Buena Vista, Virginia.

1934

Jos—EpH Marcus FRIEDMAN died on Sep-
tember 20, 1957. He. had made his home
in Danville, Virginia.

1943

Lr. Cou. _Jacop. E.. “Jack” Manen, the
only Virginian who participated in the
Doolittle air raid over Tokyo in 1942,
was killed March 24, 1958, when his T-33
jet trainer plane crashed in Nevada. He
was a lieutenant when he flew in the
Japanese air attack, and _ crash-landed
in China after the raid. He wandered
about for six days until Chinese guerrila
forces found him and led him out of
enemy territory to India. Later, he was
stationed for three years in Japan. He
also participated in the Korean war.
Before his death, he was base inspector
at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada.

>

1954

Apert T. Hickin, Jr. was found dead in
a wooded area near Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, on March 3, 1958. Authorities said
he died from a self-inflicted pistol wound.
He had been attending the University of
Virginia. He is survived by his wife, Mrs.
Patricia Prickett Hickin.

41

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $27.00, f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

