WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Ime ALUMN"’ 7a

Class Notes
Spring 1960

 

Class Agents for 1960

1887-1909—Alumni Office

1910-A—-Hamilton Arthur Derr, Muskingum Drive, Mariet-
ta, Ohio

1910-L—Alumni Office

1911-A—Frederick Short Johnson, 801 Blackshire Road, Wil-
mington, Delaware

1911-L—Roger M. Winbourne, P. O. Box 754, Lenoir, N.C.

1912-A—Dr. Gordon Lewis Groover, Jr., 2809 Blaine Drive,
Chevy Chase, Maryland

1912-L—-Judge A. G. Lively, P.O. Box 205, Lebanon, Va.

1913-A—Paul C. Buford, Box 2421, Roanoke, Virginia

1913-L—Judge T. R. Bandy, Box 189, Kingsport, Tennessee

1914-A—Col. Paul J. B. Murphy, ‘Kolosandra,” College
Park, Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—-John L. Hughes, Box 32, Benton, Arkansas

1915-A—W. W. Cash, Jr., Cashmary Farm, Fagle Rock
(Botetourt County), Virginia

1915-L—Wilbur C. Hall, Leesburg, Virginia

1916-A—Dr. Wiley D. Forbus, Box 3712, Duke Univ. Med.
School, Durham, N. C.

1916-L—T. A. Myles, Box 126, Fayetteville, W. Va.

1917-A—Raymond Lee Cundiff, 1600 Arlington Ave, Colum-
bus 12, Ohio

1917-L—Charlie Given Peters, P. O. Box 1669, Charleston 26,
W. Va.

1918 -—Allein Beall, Jr., P. O. Box 618, Helena, Arkansas

1919 Alfred A. Lander, 7711 Military Prky., Dallas, Texas

1920-A—Willis Mead Everett, Jr., 2510 Rivers Road, N.W.,
Atlanta, Georgia

1920-L—John W. Dyre, Jr., 70 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

1921-A—James H. Bryan, 511 South 20th Street, Birming-
ham, Alabama

1921-L—John Bell, Exchange Nat’! Bank Bldg., P. O. Box
1288, Tampa, Florida

1922-A—L. Waters Milbourne, 603 Somerset Road, Balti-
more, Maryland

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 North Irving Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia

1923-A—Dr. Herbert L. Elias, 199 De Mott Ave., Rockville
Centre, New York

1923-L—Judge John G. Ragsdale, 519 Lion Oil Blidg., El Do-
rado, Arkansas

1924-A—Albert M. Pickus, 2424 Main Street, Stratford, Con-
necticut

1924-L—J. Hampton Price, Box 466, Leaksville, N. C.

1925-A—John T. McVay, 1404 Washington Boulevard, Hunt-
ington 1, West Virginia

1925-L—Dorsey O. Mitchell, 500-501 Lemcke Bldg., Indian-
apolis 4, Indiana

1926-A—Rufus A. Fulton, 155 River Drive, Lancaster, Pa.

1926-L—Edwin G. Hundley, U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
Baltimore, Maryland

1927-A—Allen Harris, Jr., Box 300, Johnson City, Tennessee

1927-L—John O. Strickler, 115 West Kirk Ave., S.W., Roa-
noke, Virginia

1928-A—Van Alen Hollomon, Majestic Theatre Bldg., Dallas
1, Texas

1928-L—Norman R. Crozier, Jr., 5409 Drane Drive, Dallas,
Texas

1929-A—Dr. Hayward F. Day, 144 Rockview Ave., North
Plainfield, New Jersey

1929-L—Samuel C. Strite, Negley Building, Hagerstown, Md.

1930-A—Frank O. Evans, Kidd Building, Milledgeville, Ga.

1930-L—Hubert L. Echols, Drawer 869, Staunton, Virginia

1931-A—James L. Rimler, 20 North Court Street, Frederick,
Maryland

1931-L—Manuel M. Weinberg, 106 North Court Street, Fred-
erick, Maryland

1932-A—Eugene P. Martin, Jr., 1125 Linden Ave., Baltimore
3, Maryland

1932-L—James D. Sparks, 521 Bernhardt Building, Monroe,
Louisiana

1933-A—John D. Copenhaver, 931 Oakwood Drive, S.W.,
Roanoke, Virginia

1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Bank of Shelbyville Bldg., Shel-
byville, Kentucky

1934-A—William R. Schildknecht, M. J. Grove Lime Co.,
Lime Kiln, Maryland

1934-L—Thomas D. Anderson, 434 Texas National Bank
Bldg., Houston 2, Texas

1935-A—William Duncan McDavid, 1519 North “A,” Pensa-
cola, Florida

1935-L—-Thomas E. Sparks, Box 547, Fordyce, Arkansas

1936-A——-Robert P. Van Voast, 505 S. Market Street, Johns-
town, New York

1936-L—Hugh D. McNew, 1400 Lawnwood Drive, St. Louis
31, Missouri

1937-A—John Malcolm McCardell, 150 Fairview Ave., Fred-
erick, Maryland

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, c/o Goldsmith’s, 123-137 South
Main St., Memphis, Tennessee

1938-A—Gerald M. Lively, c/o City Nat’! Bank & Trust Co.,
P. O. Box 226, Kansas City 41, Missouri

1938-L—Hardwick Stuart, Hardwick Building,
Cleveland, Tennessee

1939-A—Thomas W. Moses, 1220 Speedway Ave., Indianap-
oplis 7, Indiana

1939-L—John D. Goodin, P.O. Box 457, Johnson City, Tenn.

1940-A—Robert C. Hobson, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Kentucky

1940-L—Edwin J. Foltz, 917 Black Rock Road, Gladwyne,
Pennsylvania

1941-A—Emil C. Rassman, III, 617 Midland Tower, Mid-
land, Texas

1941-L—Charles F. Heiner, 112 Lake Lane, Glenbrooke Hills,
Richmond 29, Virginia

1942-A—Charles P. Didier, 205 West Broadway, Maumee,

Box 372,

Ohio

1942-L—Eliott W. Butts, Jr., 4312 Pawnee St., Jacksonville
10, Florida

1943 —Corneal B. Myers, 221 Stuart Ave., Lake Wales, Fla.

1944 —James P. Gilman, 118 Greenbrier Road, Spartan-
burg, South Carolina

1945 —Edward B. Addison, 3099 FE. Pine Valley Road,

N.W., Atlanta, Georgia

1946-A—George B. Stott, Box 576 Bon Air, Virginia

1947 —Max H. Dennis, 35% W. Main St. Wilmington, O.

1948-A—Lewis H. McKenzie, Montezuma, Georgia

1948-L—Carter R. Allen, P. O. Box 494, Waynesboro, Va.

1949-A—Mark W. Saurs, 1900 Parma Road, Richmond, Va.

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 817 Frank Nelson Bldg.,
Birmingham, Alabama

1950-A—John P. French, 1825 Oakley, Topeka, Kansas

1950-L—Rufus B. Hailey, Sevier County Bank Bldg., Sevier-
ville, Tennessee

1951-A—W. Upton Beall, 203 Professional Building, Tyler,
Texas

1951-L—Jack E. Greer, North Shore Point, Norfolk, Va.

1952-A—Roland E. Thompson, 4915 Longfellow Court, Mc-
Lean, Virginia

1952-L—Joseph B. Yanity, Jr., 207 Security Bank Blde.,
Athens, Ohio

1953-A—The Reverend Leonard B. Ranson, Jr., Route 1,
Stewartstown, Pennsylvania

1953-L—Edward L. Oast, Jr., 217 Winston Road, Ports-
mouth, Virginia

1954-A—Norman L. Dobyns, 1502 N. 16th Road (No. 10),
Arlington 9, Virginia

1954-L—-Joseph P. Kilgore, Box 276, Amherst, Virginia

1955-A—J. Hardin Marion, III, 1004 Dartmouth Road, Bal-
timore 12, Maryland

1955-L—John Raymond Kaiser, Kennett Pike & Westover
Road, Wilmington, Delaware

1956-A—Goeffrey T. Armbrister, 3042
Washington, D.C.

1956-L—Beverly G. Stephenson, 2930 S. Dinwiddie St., Ar-
lington 6, Virginia

1957-A—John J. Fox, Jr., 500 Tuckahoe Boulevard, Rich-
mond 26, Virginia

1957-L—Gavin G. K. Letts, c/o Wood & Cobb, Datura Bldg.,
Datura Street, West Palm Beach, Florida

1958-A—Thomas B. Branch, III, Sigma Chi, 2 Lee Ave.,
Lexington, Virginia

1958-L—Robert G. McCullough, 925 Church Street, Lynch-
burg, Virginia

1959-A—Roy A. Ball, 11625 E. Park Drive, Euclid, Ohio

1959-L—Alumni Office

Cambridge Place,

i piversit®
E
on ANP
oF
May 1960
eo0ee?® %, “8
eoo000e”” © Vol. XXXV
@
ooo? « _
goooderr’” e No. 2
@oo0e?® :
eee .
© Published quarterly by Alumni, Incorporated
. Washington and Lee University
CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS ° Lexington, Virginia
Appalachian—John M. Jones, ’37, Hilltop House @ Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
PP Greeneville, Tennessee : at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924
ser ayieebors. Witginia Stombock, Box 594, ° Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
Atlanta—Richard A. Denny. Jr., ’52, 434 Trust e of Washington and Lee University
Company of Georgia Building e under the supervision of C. Harold Lauck
Baltimore—James R. McDonald, ’50, 1206 Lake &
Falls Road ® Editor
Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North 3rd ®
Street e WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., ®
34, United Carbon Building @ M ino Editor
Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, ’50, 2721 Foltz 7 Managing
Drive e ‘TINA C. JEFFREY
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust °
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois e
Oe a a L. Green, ’40, 1207 Commercial e EDITORIAL BOARD
an uilding ®
Cine ath ack L. Reiter, ’41, 1020 Union Trust . PAxTon DAVIS
Cleveland—James D. Bonebrake, ’54, 19219 Mead- & NK J]. GILLIAM, 191
ow Lark Lane, Warrensville Heights 22, Ohio e BA J. G 9r7
Cumberland Valley—Robert E. Clapp, 30, 117 @ WILLIAM C. WASIIBURN, 1940
North Court Street, Frederick, Maryland @ _
Danville—Richard L. Heard, ’44, P. O. Box 1306, e AMES W. WHITEHEAD
Martinsville °
Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley, ’34, 524 - ; > 5
Florida Nat'l Bank Building, St. Betersburg ° THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Houston—Ted Riggs, ’38, 601 First City National e yes
Bank Building e resident
Fa eine Lee Powell, Jr., ’50, 34 Buckman ° PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 15 West 10th e@ . .
"Street y . ® Vice-President
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, Kentucky e = -
Home Life Building ° BEN W. DITro, 1943
Lynchburg—Dr. George B. Craddock, ’30, Lang- ®
horne Road e Secretary
eee dae Merap nord. 288, Commerce Title : WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
New York—kE. Stewart Epley, ’49, McKinsey & Co., @ cen paey.
60 East 42nd Street, New York 17 e Treasurer
New. Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke ; CLarK B. WINTER, 1937
13, ;
e THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Service
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk, Virginia—Henry I. Willett, 52, Box 8,
Churchland, Virginia
Nerth Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Davis
Building, Dallas
"42, 4812

Northern Louisiana—C. Lane Sartor,
Camelia, Shreveport, Louisiana
Jr., °’42, 18 Earl

Peninsula—Beverley W. Lee,
Street, Hampton, Virginia
Philadelphia—Sidney Ulfelder, Jr.,
mead Drive, Erlton, New Jersey
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
Pittsburgh—Anthony E, D’Emilio, Jr., °41, 702
Frick Building
Richmond, Virginia—Reno S. Harp, III, "54, 4912
West Cary St., Richmond
Reanoke—William R. Holland, Mountain Trust

Bank, P. O. Box 1411
San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., ’43, 201 N. St.

Mary’s Street
St. Louis—Malcolm Holekamp, ’538, 344 Gray Ave.,
Webster Groves 19, Missouri

"31, 440-12th Avenue,

Tri-State—T. J. Mayo,
Huntington, West Virginia

°24, Brook-

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15 N. Al-
d

legany St., Cumberland, Marylan

Washington, D. C.—Arthur Glarendon Smith, Jr.

"41, 1318 You Street. N

@
e
@
e
@
e
°®
@
@
©
®
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
Q
@
e
@
©
e
e
e
e
@
8
e
@
®

RopNEY M. Cook, 1946
BEN W. DITTO, 1943

Davip D. JOHNSON, 1921, ex officio
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942

JAMEs B. MARTIN, 1931

PAUL M. SITUFORD, 1943
PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935, President

CLARK B. WINTER, 1937

THE Cover: Tucker Law Lectures speaker, L. Ross
MALONE, ’32, center, former president of The Ameri-
can Bar Association, is welcomed to the Washington
and Lee campus by this group: left, JoHN Morrison,
intermediate, WILLIAM ABELOFF, senior; E. WALLER
Dubey, ‘47, of Alexandria, Virginia, president of
the Law School Association, Law Dean CLAYTON E.
WILLIAMS, ‘12, and dean-designate CHARLES P. LiGHr.

University Vlews

 

@ LIBERAL NEW GROUP life and dis-

ability policies for fulltime faculty,
administrative staff, and other col-
lege employees went into effect on
March 1, 1960.

Group life insurance benefits in-
creased from $1,000 to $20,000. Dis-
ability benefits provide for pay-
ment of fifty percent of salary to
age 65. The University shares costs
of the new life insurance program
on a fifty-fifty basis, and pays sixty
per cent of the disability premiums.

‘The new program was approved
by the trustees in January. Recom-
mendation of the program was
made by the faculty committee on
insurance, headed by Commerce
school dean Lewis W. Adams.

= DR. FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, '21, has
been elected president of Gam-
ma chapter of Virginia, Phi Beta
Kappa. Other officers are:  vice-
president, Dr. James Leyburn; sec-
retary, Dr. L. J. Desha, ’o6.

Washington and Lee’s chapter
will celebrate its fiftieth anniver-
sary next year. It was founded in
1911 and now has more than 600
living alumni.

 

= A GIFT OF $1,360 has been re-
ceived from the First National City
Bank of New York, representing
a grant of $340 for each of four
alumni employed by the bank.
This is the fourth such gift re-
ceived since the bank inaugurated
its program in 1956. The Universi-

2

ty has received a total of $4,495 in
unrestricted funds from the bank-
ing firm.

Alumni employed by the bank
are: Frank ‘Taylor Mitchell, ’g5,
senior vice-president; Riley  P.
Stevenson, ’29, vice-president; Wil-
liam J. L. Patton, ‘22, assistant
comptroller; and William S. Luck-

ett, 54.

 

@ WOODROW WILSON National Fel-

lowships for 1960-61 have been won
by four seniors and one alumnus.
‘They were selected from among
8,800 applicants at 861 American
colleges, and are among 1,259 who
will attend graduate schools in
preparation for college teaching
careers.

The sought-after Fellowships
carry a basic stipend of $1,500 plus
full costs of a year’s graduate study
and family allowances.

Washington and Lee _ winners
are: J. Arnold Groobey, ’58, who
will study political science; Wil-
liam O. Goode, mathematics; James
N. Hardin, Jr., German; Robert C.
Hinkel, English; and Thomas W.
Wieting, mathematics.

# THOMAS W. WIETING of Memphis,
‘Tennessee, has been named 1960
valedictorian, and will deliver the
traditional address at commence-
ment on June 3.

A 21-year-old mathematics major,
he has compiled 115 semester hours
of “A” work, and only one semes-
ter hour of “B” (in compulsory
physical education) during his col-
lege career.

 

Valedictorian WIETING

He was named to Phi Beta Kap-
pa as a junior, and has served this
year as a student assistant in the
math department. He has attended
the University on a Robert E. Lee
Scholarship, and has received other
academic awards and prizes for out-
standing classroom achievements.
He is a graduate of Owensboro
Senior High School in Owensboro,
Kentucky. His father, Frank J.
Wieting, is a general secretary in
the YMCA system.

H AN ORIGINAL musical comedy,
“The Cannon’s Mouth,’ ran _ for
five performances in April, to bene-
fit the Student War Memorial
Scholarship Fund, which is now on |
its second $10,000 scholarship. ‘The
play this year featured a cast of
fifty, including ten students from
Sweet Briar. Writer and director
was Steve Danzansky, a junior from
Washington, D.C. One Lexington
resident sent a $200 donation, after
seeing the play and being im-
pressed by the caliber of the pro-

duction.

THE VIRGINIA EPSILON chapter of
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity was
formally reinstalled in April. SPE
was originally established at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1906, but the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

chapter was disbanded in 1940.
Plans to reorganize were started
last year, and a fraternity house was
purchased through alumni support.

 

& FORMER PRESIDENT Harry 8S. Tru-
man was to keynote the Democratic
Mock Convention here May 2 and
3. Plans made by students included
the kick-off parade down Main
Street, led by Mr. ‘Truman, sessions
in Doremus gymnasium, and a brief
dedication of a bronze plaque hon-
oring the memory of the late Sena-
tor Alben W. Barkley, who died of
a heart attack while addressing the
1956 mock convention.

w LENOIR CHAMBERS, editor of the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, and a
Civil War biographer, was a speak-
er here in March. He _ explored
the relationship between Generals
Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jack-
son, in an appearance sponsored by
the history department. Mr. Cham-
bers’ two-volume biography — of
Jackson was recently published.

# DR. LOUIS B. WRIGHT, director of
the Folger Shakespeare Library in
Washington, was speaker on April
12 for the annual Phi Beta Kappa-
Cincinnati Society Convocation.
His subject was, “History as a Cul-
tural Bridge.” Fourteen students
elected to Phi Beta Kappa were
honor guests.

 

& THE LEGAL PROFESSION holds a po-
sition of trust and responsibility
unequalled by any other group in
American society, said Ross L. Ma-

In the first observation here of
Law Day, about one hundred law
alumni and their families came
back to Lexington.

Other events of the weekend
were: presentation to retiring Dean
Williams of a set of silver chafing
dishes and tray by the Student Bar
Association; presentation by law
alumni to Mrs. Williams of a
Steuben glass bowl; a luncheon at
the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

The Law School Association
elected the following officers for
the coming year: president, Edward
S. Graves, °30; vice-president, H.
Graham Morison, °32;  secretary-
treasurer, Robert R. Huntley, ’57;
council members, F. Nelson Light,
‘52, and Henry Vance, ’50.

DEAN CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS, ‘12,
who will retire in June, was hon-
ored March 19 with a testimonial
dinner given by the local chapter
of Phi Delta Phi. About 110 stu-
dent members, their wives, the law
faculty and wives, and special
guests attended the dinner.
Principal speaker was Lewis F.
Powell, ‘29, Richmond attorney,
who paid tribute to Dean Williams’

 

W. C. WINpbsor, JR., “43, was elected a
member of the Board of Curators of Ste-
phens College recenily. He is also a trus-
tee of Hockaday School in Dallas and
the Graduate Research Center at South-
ern Methodist University, as well as the
Texas Research Foundation. He is presi-
dent of Windsor Properties, Inc. and the
Century Post Company in Dallas, Texas.

long years of service to the law
school.

A plaque was presented to the
dean by the fraternity, commemor-
ating Dean Williams’ service to the
legal profession,

 

following:

the following:

NOTICE TO ALUMNI

‘The nominating committee, appointed by the President of the
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., nominates for elec-
tion to the Alumni Board of Trustees, at the meeting of the cor-
poration to be held at 2 p.m. on June g, 1960 in duPont Hall the

1, New Orleans, Louisiana,
Joun D. Battie, JRr., M.D., 34, Cleveland, Ohio

WILLIAM B. Wispom, ’2

The committee also nominates for election as Alumni repre-
sentative on the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics

A. LEA Bootn, '40, Lynchburg, Virginia

lone, 32, speaker on April 15-16 at
the Tucker Law Lectures. He

KE. ANGUS POWELL, ’36, Chairman
E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 733

warned that lawyers must beware
of conflicting interests which tempt
them to compromise their attitudes.

Howarp K. ‘TAYLOE, 28

 

 

 

SPRING 1960 3

 

Chapter “Meetings

UPPER POTOMAC

The Upper Potomac Chapter
had its annual spring meeting on
March g0, 1960, at the Cumberland
Country Club. President William
L. Wilson presided, and the fol-
lowing officers were elected for the
coming year: Thomas N. Berry, ’38,
president; Albert D. Darby, °43,
secretary-treasurer.

The chapter designated J. Good-
loe Jackson, ’14, president of the
Allegany County Board of Educa-
tion, as its representative to the
inauguration of Dr. Fred C. Cole as
president of Washington and Lee.

Voicing the expression of the
members of the chapter, the name
of L. Leslie Helmer, ’36, was sub-
mitted to the nominating commit-
tee for election to the Alumni
Board of ‘Trustees.

RICHMOND

Alumni of the Richmond chapter
gathered at the Downtown Club on
March 22, 1960, to hear an address
by Law School Dean Clayton Wil-
liams, who is completing his last
year as dean of the Law School.

A social hour preceded the ban-
quet, at which president Earl L.
Hargrove, °54, presided. In the
short business session, plans were
introduced for a stag smoker on
May go. At this time, new officers
for the coming year will be elected.

LYNCHBURG

‘The Lynchburg chapter held its
annual business meeting and ban-
quet at Boonesboro Country Club
on February 23, 1960. In addition
to the alumni and guests, the chap-

4

ter was also pleased to have repre-
sentatives from Sweet Briar, Presi-
dent Ann Pannell, and Mr. and
Mrs. ‘Theodore Jack, retired presi-
dent of Randolph-Macon Womans’
College.

During the business session, out-
going president, Dr. Ed Calvert,
"44, gave a brief resume of the chap-
ter’s activities over the past year
and called on Robert Taylor, ’44,
treasurer, who reported the finan-
cial condition was definitely in the
“blue.” A nominating committee of
Eliott Schewel, ’45, James McCaus-
land, ’43, and Ed S. Graves, ’30, pre-
sented their slate of new officers for
the coming 1960 year and they were
elected unanimously. The new of-
ficers are as follows: president: Dr.
George B. Craddock, ’30;  vice-
president: Frank H. Callaham, ’52;
and secretary-treasurer: Robert B.
‘Taylor, °44.

Mr. James Caskie, ’o6, rector of
the board, introduced President
Fred C. Cole, who made the princi-
pal address. Dr. Cole described the
main elements which make Wash-
ington and Lee great, his pride in
being associated with the institu-
tion and declared that potentially,
Washington and Lee can and
should be second to none among
colleges of the nation.

LOUISVILLE

Meeting at the Pendennis Club
on February 20, 1960, the Louisville
alumni were pleased to have Presi-
dent Fred C. Cole as their princi-
pal speaker. The meeting was pre-
ceded by a social hour and was at-
tended by a large group of alumni
and wives. On hand also was a

group of prospective students and
their parents. T. Kennedy Helm,
‘40, president of the chapter, pre-
sided at the meeting and _ intro-
duced President Cole.

Executive Secretary Bill Wash-
burn, ‘40, showed movies of the
1959 football season, including por-
tions of the Washington and Lee-
Centre game.

TIDEWATER

‘The Tidewater Alumni chapter
held a dinner meeting on February
12, 1960, at the Norfolk Yacht and
Country Club, with President Sam
Ames, '42, presiding. Alumni board
member Bernard Levin, ’42, intro-
duced President Fred C. Cole, who
made the principal address before
the enthusiastic group of alumni
and wives. A social hour preceded
the dinner.

During the short business session
the following new officers were
nominated and elected unanimous-
ly: president: Henry I. Willett, Jr.,
’52, vice president: Ferdinand Phil-
lips, Jr., ‘51; secretary-treasurer;
Thomas W. Joynes, ‘52.

ASHEVILLE

Alumni of Washington and Lee
and VMI in the Asheville, North
Carolina, area got together on
April 5, 1960 and organized a joint
association. Col. Paul A. Rockwell,
12, was elected president.

Members stood and observed a
minute of silence at the dinner
meeting, in memory of Generals
George Washington, Robert E.
Lee, and Stonewall Jackson.

Measures to induce more Ash-
ville students to enter the two Lex-
ington colleges were discussed.

The joint alumni group was or-
ganized because neither VMI nor
Washington and Lee has enough
men in the area to form separate
groups. It was thought that the
joint chapter will be an active
group which will meet regularly.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

O5 Davip TAy Moore received an

honorary doctor of laws degree in 1959
from Davis and Elkins College in Elkins,
West Virginia. Mr. Moore is a trustee of
the Union Theological Seminary of Rich-
mond and is presently acting secretary
and treasurer of Greenbrier Military
School of Lewisburg, West Virginia. He
and Mrs. Moore celebrated their fiftieth
wedding anniversary on February 23, 1960.

Haney B. Conner, the Past Grand Master
of the Free and Accepted Masons of the
state of Louisiana, has been instrumental
in a $100,000 program resulting in the
presentation to the city of New Orleans
a stone monument of George Washington.
The monument was unveiled Sunday,
February 7, 1960, and is placed approxti-
mately half a mile distance from the mon-
ument of Robert E. Lee.

06 Dr. L. J. Desa finds great pleas-
ure in his new hobby—art. He began
painting only last fall, but in February,
at the Comunity Art Festival in Lexing-
ton, he took first prize for his oil paint-
ing of a flower arrangement.

Dr. ALFRED M. WITHERS, professor emeri-
tus of foreign languages, Concord College,
Athens, West Virginia, has a most pro-
lific pen. In the years between 1939 and
1960, he has had 173 articles published
in magazines and learned journals on
many subjects. Some of his more inter-
esting titles are, “The Folly of Sealing
English in a Modern Vacuum,” “Prepa-
ration in High School Versus Appease-
ment in College,” “On Justifying and
Studying the Foreign Languages,” “Latin
Versus Bootstraps,” “Our Culture and the
Language Bar,’ and “An Open Letter to
Teachers of Mathematics.” His articles
have appeared in Modern Language
Journal, School and_ Society, Hispania,
French Review, The Educational For-
um, Journal of Higher Education, The
Classical Outlook, Classical Journal, Clas-
sical Bulletin, Education, South Atlantic
Quarterly, and others.

08 THE Rev. GROVER C. GABRIEL has

served thirty years as a minister and

SPRING 1960

twenty years in executive and institution-
al work. He retired in December, 1958,
and is now living in Red Lion, Pennsylva-
nia. He served as supply pastor of St.
Paul’s E. U. B. church in Red Lion for five
months, after the death of its pastor.

/ 2 BisHorp Lioyp R. CRAIGHILL, re-
tired, has recently been appointed by the
American Bible Society as one of three
special secretaries. ‘The secretaries advise
the society in its missionary services to
the denominations with which they are
affiliated. Bishop Craighill resides in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

13 CAPTAIN Dick SMITH, retired di-
rector of athletics at Washington and
Lee, battled a seven-foot, ten-inch sailfish
to win the daily award in the twenty-third
annual Silver Sailfish Derby at West Palm
Beach in February. He took the 48-pound
beauty while fishing from the cruiser
Tranquil, owned by Beverley H. Smith,

’

32.

Dr. W. Taytor THOM, Jr., professor
of geology, emeritus, Princeton Univer-
sity, is the author of an interesting ar-
ticle, “Brazilian Highways—Keys to World
Peace.’ In it, he says that Brazil has great
wealth in natural resources, only slightly
developed, and that construction of roads
and railroads would accomplish several
things (1) stimulation of employment due
to construction work; (2) great develop-
ment of mines, oilfields, forestry opera-
tions, farms and cattle ranches, freeing
Brazil from dependence on coffee exports;
(3) opportunities of borrowing abroad—
and repaying speedily—funds needed for
development.

Tue Rey. H. S. Corrry is serving his
third year as pastor of Memorial Metho-
dist Church in Lynchburg, Virginia. His
son, the Rev John H. Coffey, is in charge
of Wesley Foundation work on the cam-
pus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, An-
other son, Commander H. S. Coffey, Jr.
lives in Furlong, Pennsylvania. His two
daughters live in Phoenix, Arizona, and in
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. ‘There are — six

grandchildren for the Rev. and Mrs.

Coffey.

/ f J. GoopLor JACKSON has retired

from the wholesale grocery business but
keeps busy with civic duties such as_ be-
ing president of the Allegany County
(Maryland) Board of Education. His ad-
dress is: 610 Shriver Avenue, Cumberland,
Maryland.

15 Cot. FRANK B. HAYNE has spent

two and one-half years in Europe. His
address is: care of Westminster Bank,
Ltd., 1 St. James Square, London, S.W. 1,
England.

Jerry A. BURKE, superintendent of Ap-
pomattox County Schools, Virginia, was
saluted by the Appomattox County Edu-
cation Association recently for his out-
standing record in public education.
Since he became superintendent in 1926,
he has seen the value of school proper-
ty rise from $96,800 to $1,725,195. Through
consclidation, eight elementary schools
and two high schools now replace 29 one-
room schools, 7 two-reom schools, five
three-room schools, and two high schools.
The tribute to him stated, ‘“‘a man of
even temperament and calm judgment, he
has seen marked growth in the two coun-
ty high schools. ‘They bear testimony to
his long range planning and keen in-
sight of the educational needs of the
county.”

 

Dr. L. N. BELL, “15

Dr. L. Netson Betti this year received a
fourth George Washington Medal for edi-
torial writing from the Freedoms Founda-
tion of Valley Forge. He is at present exec-
utive editor of Christianity Today of
which he was one of the founders. He was
from 1916-41 chief surgeon at Tsingkiang-

5

 

 

pu General Hospital, largest Presbyterian
hospital in the China mission field. From
1941-56, he practiced surgery in Asheville,
North Craolina, but retired in 1956 be-
cause of a recurring cardiac condition.
Since 1947 he has traveled to Europe four
times; Brazil, three; Africa, one; Japan
and Korea, three; and around the world
once, with a special mission to Formosa.
He is the author of numerous articles
and editorials in medical, secular and re-
ligious magazines.

/ 6 M. BRAYDEN RIDENOUR is slowly
improving after a long illness. He is able
now to spend a short time each day at his
office.

17 E. P. BARRow is engaged in the

practice of law in Lawrenceville, Vir-
ginia, and was recently reappointed as a
member of the Highway Commission for
another four-year term. Emory has served
on this commission continuously since
July 1, 1942, without missing a meeting.

CLAUDE R. HILL served as mayor of the
city of Oak Hill, West Virginia, for
twenty-four years, retiring four years ago.
He is still president of Merchants and
Miners National Bank of that city and is
engaged in some real estate activities. He
is retired from active participation in the
lumber and construction business. He has
two daughters and two sons. C. R. Jr., 54,
is a practicing attorney with the firm of
Love, Abbot and Hill, Fayetteville, West
Virginia. His younger son, John, is a
eraduate student at Ohio State University,
in nuclear physics and astronomy.

19 Epwarp G. BAILEy, after 30 years
in government real estate appraisals, is
now doing private appraisals of homes and
other properties in Richmond, Virginia.

CLIFFORD N. PEALE, who for years was
wholesale representative for Wellington
Fund, Inc., traveling out of Chicago, re-
tired some four years ago to Largo, Flori-
da. He is at present a registered repre-
sentative with A. M. Kidder and Co.,
Inc., members of the New York Stock
Exchange, in the Clearwater, Florida,
branch office where he says he can work
and take it easy as he sees fit.

THE Rev. CraiG Houston PATTERSON is
minister of Westminster Presbyterian
church in Bluefield, West Virginia. He

6

was formerly a missionary to China, re-
turning in 1941 to West Virginia.

20 JouHN W. Drye, JR., since 1952, has

been a director of Union Carbide Cor-
poration, and has served on its Execu-
tive Committee for the past six years. He
is also general counsel of the company,
and a partner of Kelley, Drye, Newhall
and Maginnes, lawyers. He is a director
of a number of companies, including
Brooklyn Union Gas Company, Continen-
tal Insurance Company, Grocery Store
Products Company, Niagara Fire Insur-
ance Company, Niagara Insurance Com-
pany (Bermuda) Ltd. and Warner-Lam-
bert Pharmaceutical Company.

GEORGE S. MUELLER has retired from the
Bell ‘Telephone Laboratories after nearly
thirty-nine years of service. He states that
as a result of many years of planning
and praying, he and his wife are now
living in that beautiful area in western
Bedford County just north of Montvale,
Virginia.

22 Dewey A. REYNOLDS has been re-

tired now for three years but never tires
of fishing. Dewey writes he spends seven
months in Florida and five months in
Michigan—just fishing! Washington and
Lee visitors will find him on U.S. Route
1g at Buena Vista—three miles north of
‘Tarpon Springs, Florida.

CARTER N. BEALER suffered a_ paralytic
stroke in January and was confined to the
hospital for three months. The last reports
indicate his marked and continued im-
provement.

23 MorritL WADE joined the Brown
and Williamson ‘Tobacco Corporation as
a chemist in 1927. After five years in the

testing laboratory, he went into manu-
facturing where he served for twenty-five
years and was promoted to Vice-President
in charge of production. Two years ago,
he became Vice-President in charge of
research and development for the com-
pany. He is the father of a son, Thomas,
who is now with Reynolds Metals in
Messena, New York; and two daughters,
Mary Beverley and Cynthia; also two
granddaughters.

FRANK Hurt, heading the division of Po-
litical Science at Western Maryland Col-
lege, is serving as coach for the inter-
collegiate tennis program. Last com-
mencement the alumni of the college
honored him as tennis coach, after 24
years of coaching against a background of
only two losing seasons.

24 Ropert B. CAMPBELL, son of

Harry B. Campbell, former Dean of the
University, has been appointed by the
Bishop as Dean of the Lenoi Deanery,
covering ten churches. His own parish,
Ascension Episcopal Church, Hickory,
North Carolina, is in the midst of a cam-
paign for construction of a new parish
house. ‘The church has 500 members.

25 Movrret D. Kern began his thirty-

fifth year in insurance business on March
1, 1960. “Lefty” is owner of the agency
of Klein and Appel in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He and Mrs. Klein have two daugh-
ters.

Vir~ C. CHOATE has devoted most of his
life to the utility field, beginning first in
accounting capacities with Virginia Elec-
tric and Power Company. In 1946 he ac-
cepted the position of senior auditor for
the State Corporation Commission of Vir-
ginia. Later Virl joined the North Caro-

(Continued on page 23)

 

 

The Next Sixteen Pages —»>

PARTNERSHIP denotes a sharing between two parties. Certainly
A every American college is a partner with its alumni in its ef-
forts for advancement, and that makes you one of the most im-
portant persons in higher education.

In this sixteen-page supplement, we tell you just why you, and
other American alumni, are so influential. This supplement is the
second one the Alumni Magazine has run on broad educational
topics. In the spring, 1958, issue, the subject was “American Higher
Education.” Both have been produced by a national board of alumni
editors who banded together to prepare jointly material which none
could assemble individually. These twenty-one editors worked to-
gether in behalf of some 350 colleges and universities, who are issuing
this supplement to a total national circulation of 2,900,000 persons.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE

 ALUMN*s

 

    

ALAN BEARDEN, JON BREN

As student, as

alumna or alumnus: at

both stages, one

of the most important persons 7
in higher education.

2

  

pecial report

and a
declaration
dependenc

HIS IS A SALUTE, an acknowledgment of a partner-

ship, and a declaration of dependence. It is directed

to you as an alumnus or alumna. As such, you are
one of the most important persons in American education
today.

You are important to American education, and to your
alma mater, for a variety of reasons, not all of which may
be instantly apparent to you.

You are important, first, because you are the principal
product of your alma mater—the principal claim she can
make to fame. To a degree that few suspect, it is by its
alumni that an educational institution is judged. And few
yardsticks could more accurately measure an institution’s
true worth.

You are important to American education, further,
because of the support you give to it. Financial support
comes immediately to mind: the money that alumni are
giving to the schools, colleges, and universities they once

 

attended has reached an impressive sum, larger than that
received from any other source of gifts. It is indispensable.

But the support you give in other forms is impressive
and indispensable, also. Alumni push and guide the legis-
lative programs that strengthen the nation’s publicly
supported educational institutions. They frequently act
as academic talent scouts for their alma maters, meeting
and talking with the college-bound high school students
in their communities. They are among the staunchest de-
fenders of high principles in education—e.g., academic
freedom—even when such defense may not be the “*popu-
lar’? posture. The list is long; yet every year alumni are
finding ways to extend it.

O THE HUNDREDS of colleges and universities and
secondary schools from which they came, alumni
are important in another way—one that has nothing
to do with what alumni can do for the institutions them-

 

ROBERT PHILLIPS

selves. Unlike most other forms of human enterprise,
educational institutions are not in business for what they
themselves can get out of it. They exist so that free people,
through education, can keep civilization on the forward
move. Those who ultimately do this are their alumni.
Thus only through its alumni can a school or a college
or a university truly fulfill itself.

Chancellor Samuel B. Gould, of the University of Cali-
fornia, put it this way:

‘‘The serious truth of the matter is that you are the
distilled essence of the university, for you are its product
and the basis for its reputation. If anything lasting is to
be achieved by us as a community of scholars, it must in
most instances be reflected in you. If we are to win intellec-
tual victories or make cultural advances, it must be
through your good offices and your belief in our mission.”

The italics are ours. The mission is yours and ours
together.

 

Alma Mater...

At an alumni-alumnae meeting in Washington,
members sing the old school song.

The purpose of this meeting was to introduce
the institution to high school

boys and girls who, with their parents,

were present as the club’s guests.

 

 

 

Alumnus + alumnus-

Many people cling to the odd notion that in this case

is a puzzling thing. That the view is highly illogical
seems only to add to its popularity. That its ele-
ments are highly contradictory seems to bother no one.

Here is the paradox:

Individually you, being an alumnus or alumna, are
among the most respected and sought-after of beings.
People expect of you (and usually get) leadership or in-
telligent followership. They appoint you to positions of
trust in business and government and stake the nation’s
very survival on your school- and college-developed
abilities.

If you enter politics, your educational pedigree is freely
discussed and frequently boasted about, even in precincts
where candidates once took pains to conceal any educa-
tion beyond the sixth grade. In clubs, parent-teacher
associations, churches, labor unions, you are considered
to be the brains, the backbone, the eyes, the ears, and the
neckbone—the latter to be stuck out, for alumni are ex-
pected to be intellectually adventurous as well as to ex-
ercise other attributes.

But put you in an alumni club, or back on campus for a
reunion or homecoming, and the popular respect—yea,
awe—turns to chuckles and ho-ho-ho. The esteemed in-
dividual, when bunched with other esteemed individuals,
becomes in the popular image the subject of quips, a can-
didate for the funny papers. He is now imagined to be a
person whose interests stray no farther than the degree of
baldness achieved by his classmates, or the success in
marriage and child-bearing achieved by her classmates, or
the record run up last season by the alma mater’s football
or field-hockey team. He is addicted to funny hats deco-
rated with his class numerals, she to daisy chainmaking
and to recapturing the elusive delights of the junior-class
hoop-roll.

If he should encounter his old professor of physics, he is
supposedly careful to confine the conversation to remi-
niscences about the time Joe or Jane Wilkins, with spec-
tacular results, tried to disprove the validity of Newton’s
third law. To ask the old gentleman about the implica-
tions of the latest research concerning anti-matter would
be, it is supposed, a most serious breach of the Alumni
Reunion Code.

Such a view of organized alumni activity might be dis-
missed as unworthy of note, but for one disturbing fact:
among its most earnest adherents are a surprising number
of alumni and alumnae themselves.

Ts: POPULAR VIEW of you, an alumnus or alumna,

Permit us to lay the distorted image to rest, with the aid
of the rites conducted by cartoonist Mark Kelley on the
following pages. To do so will not necessitate burying the
class banner or interring the reunion hat, nor is there a
need to disband the homecoming day parade.

The simple truth is that the serious activities of organ-
ized alumni far outweigh the frivolities—in about the
Same proportion as the average citizen’s, or unorganized
alumnus’s, party-going activities are outweighed by his
less festive pursuits.

Look, for example, at the activities of the organized
alumni of a large and famous state university in the Mid-
west. The former students of this university are often
pictured as football-mad. And there is no denying that, to
many of them, there is no more pleasant way of spending
an autumn Saturday than witnessing a victory by the
home team. ,

But by far the great bulk of alumni energy on behalf of
the old school is invested elsewhere:
> Every year the alumni association sponsors a recog-
nition dinner to honor outstanding students—those with
a scholastic average of 3.5 (B+) or better. This has proved
to be a most effective way of showing students that aca-
demic prowess is valued above all else by the institution
and its alumni.
> Every year the alumni give five ‘“‘distinguished teach-
ing awards’’—grants of $1,000 each to professors selected
by their peers for outstanding performance in the class-
room.
> An advisory board of alumni prominent in various
fields meets regularly to consider the problems of the
university: the quality of the course offerings, the caliber
of the students, and a variety of other matters. They re-
port directly to the university president, in confidence.
Their work has been salutary. When the university’s
school of architecture lost its accreditation, for example,

the efforts of the alumni advisers were invaluable in get-

ting to the root of the trouble and recommending meas-
ures by which accreditation could be regained.
> The efforts of alumni have resulted in the passage of
urgently needed, but politically endangered, appropria-
tions by the state legislature. ,
> Some 3,000 of the university’s alumni act each year as
volunteer alumni-fund solicitors, making contacts with
30,000 of the university’s former students.

Nor is this a particularly unusual list of alumni accom-
plishments. The work and thought expended by the alum-

falumni—or does it?

 

the group somehow differs from the sum of its parts

 

Behind the fun

ni of hundreds of schools, colleges, and universities in
behalf of their alma maters would make a glowing record,
if ever it could be compiled. The alumni of one institution
took it upon themselves to survey the federal income-tax
laws, as they affected parents’ ability to finance their
children’s education, and then, in a nationwide campaign,
pressed for needed reforms. In a score of cities, the
alumnae of a women’s college annually sell tens of thou-
sands of tulip bulbs for their alma mater’s benefit; in
eight years they have raised $80,000, not to mention
hundreds of thousands of tulips. Other institutions’ alum-
nae stage house and garden tours, organize used-book
sales, sell flocked Christmas trees, sponsor theatrical
benefits. Name a worthwhile activity and someone is
probably doing it, for faculty salaries or building funds or
student scholarships.

Drop in on a reunion or a local alumni-club meeting,
and you may well find that the superficial programs of

of organized alumni activity—in clubs, at reunions—lies new seriousness
nowadays, and a substantial record of service to American education.

yore have been replaced by seminars, lectures, laboratory
demonstrations, and even week-long short-courses. Visit
the local high school during the season when the senior
students are applying for admission to college—and try-
ing to find their way through dozens of college catalogues,
each describing a campus paradise—and you will find
alumni on hand to help the student counselors. Nor are
they high-pressure salesmen for their own alma mater and
disparagers of everybody else’s. Often they can, and do,
perform their highest service to prospective students by
advising them to apply somewhere else.

 

HE ACHIEVEMENTS, in short, belie the popular image.

And if no one else realizes this, or cares, one group

should: the alumni and alumnae themselves. Too
many of them may be shying away from a good thing be-
cause they think that being an “‘active’’ alumnus means
wearing a funny hat.

 

 

 

Why they come

Amd there wi// be
TURBULENT YEARS /

DEAN! DEAN WINTERKAVEN/

    
   
 
 

 

TO SEE THE OLD DEAN

 
   

 

Here if 1S, Deas’...

Mv O4D Room ff. |

FOR AN OUTING

He was in class, nT
bemember Acc mame /

 

X

‘ TO RECAPTURE YOUTH

J JUST HAPPEN fo
have yor Fy pe of
SP Polley with pe...

    

TO RENEW

TO DEVELOP OLD ACQUAINTANCE

NEW TERRITORY

 

 

 

TO BRING
THE WORD

 

| back: The popular view

Charlie e Old Charhe Applegate Z

  

Whset way fo MEM HALL lad 7

 

 

Se aide f- TO PLACE THE FACE

 

Appearantes subel rrdicate
What You have risen above your
academic stancling ] Buchaltrer-/

TO FIND MEM HALL

He says hes 2 FRAT BROTHER
Of yours /

 

TO IMPRESS THE OLD PROF

He wants 4o do Some hing for
Ais OLD SCHOoL. /*

e
*
e
>
*

 
 

 

 
 
  

 

 

TO CONTRIBUTE #TO BE A “POOR LITTLE SHEEP” AGAIN
MATERIALLY

 

 

 

 

One) e Last year, educational institutions

from any other source of gifts. Alumni support 1s

ITHOUT THE DOLLARS that their alumni contrib-

\ \ ute each year, America’s privately supported

educational institutions would be in serious

difficulty today. And the same would be true of the na-

tion’s publicly supported institutions, without the sup-

port of alumni in legislatures and elections at which
- appropriations or bond issues are at stake.

For the private institutions, the financial support re-
ceived from individual alumni often means the difference
between an adequate or superior faculty and one that is
underpaid and understaffed; between a thriving scholar-
ship program and virtually none at all; between well-
equipped laboratories and obsolete, crowded ones. For
tax-supported institutions, which in growing numbers are
turning to their alumni for direct financial support, such
aid makes it possible to give scholarships, grant loans to
needy students, build such buildings as student unions,
and carry on research for which legislative appropriations
do not provide.

To gain an idea of the scope of the support which
alumni give—and of how much that is worthwhile in
American education depends upon it—consider this sta-
tistic, unearthed in a current survey of 1,144 schools,
junior colleges, colleges, and universities in the United
States and Canada: in just twelve months, alumni gave
their alma maters more than $199 million. They were the
largest single source of gifts.

‘Nor was this the kind of support that is given once, per-
haps as the result of a high-pressure fund drive, and never
heard of again. Alumni tend to give funds regularly. In

_the past year, they contributed $45.5 million, on an annual

gift basis, to the 1,144 institutions surveyed. To realize.

that much annual income from investments in blue-chip
stocks, the institutions would have needed over 1.2 billion
more dollars in endowment funds than they actually
possessed. 3

the American educational scene (Yale alumni

founded the first annual college fund in 1890, and
Mount Hermon was the first independent secondary
school to do so, in 1903). But not until fairly recently did
annual giving become the main element in education’s
financial survival kit. The development was logical. Big
endowments had been affected by inflation. Big private
philanthropy, affected by the graduated income and in-

Vas ALUMNI GIVING is not a new phenomenon on

heritance taxes, was no longer able to do the job alone.
Yet, with the growth of science and technology and
democratic concepts of education, educational budgets

had to be increased to keep pace.

Twenty years before Yale’s first alumni drive, a pro-
fessor in New Haven foresaw the possibilities and looked
into the minds of alumni everywhere:

‘““No graduate of the college,” he said, ‘‘has ever paid
in full what it cost the college to educate him. A part of the
expense was borne by the funds given by former bene-
factors of the institution.

‘A great many can never pay the debt. A very few can,
in their turn, become munificent benefactors. There is a
very large number, however, between these two, who can,
and would cheerfully, give according to their ability in
order that the college might hold the same relative posi-
tion to future generations which it held to their own.”

The first Yale alumni drive, seventy years ago, brought
in $11,015. In 1959 alone, Yale’s alumni gave more than
$2 million. Not only at Yale, but at the hundreds of other
institutions which have established annual alumni funds
in the intervening years, the feeling of indebtedness and
the concern for future generations which the Yale pro-
fessor foresaw have spurred alumni to greater and greater
efforts in this enterprise.

draws more. Not only have more than eighty busi-

ness corporations, led in 1954 by General Electric,
established the happy custom of matching, dollar for dol-
lar, the gifts that their employees (and sometimes their
employees’ wives) give to their alma maters; alumni
giving is also a measure applied by many business men
and by philanthropic foundations in determining how
productive their organizations’ gifts to an educational in-
stitution are likely to be. Thus alumni giving, as Gordon
K. Chalmers, the late president of Kenyon College, de-
scribed it, is ““‘the very rock on which all other giving must
rest. Gifts from outside the family depend largely—some-
times wholly—on the degree of alumni support.”

The “‘degree of alumni support” is gauged not by dol-
lars alone. The percentage of alumni who are regular
givers is also a key. And here the record is not as dazzling
as the dollar figures imply.

Nationwide, only one in five alumni of colleges, uni-
versities, and prep schools gives to his annual alumni

\" MONEY FROM ALUMNI is a powerful magnet: it

]

 

received more of it from their alumni than
now education’s strongest financial rampart

fund. The actual figure last year was 20.9 per cent. Allow-
ing for the inevitable few who are disenchanted with their
alma maters’ cause,* and for those who spurn all fund
solicitations, sometimes with heavy scorn,+ and for those
whom legitimate reasons prevent from giving financial
aid,§ the participation figure is still low.

HY? Perhaps because the non-participants imag-
5 \ ine their institutions to be adequately financed.
(Virtually without exception, in both private and
tax-supported institutions, this is—sadly—not so.) Per-
haps because they believe their small gift—a dollar, or
five, or ten—will be insignificant. (Again, most emphati-
cally, not so. Multiply the 5,223,240 alumni who gave
nothing to their alma maters last year by as little as one
dollar each, and the figure still comes to thousands of
additional scholarships for deserving students or sub-
stantial pay increases for thousands of teachers who may,
at this moment, be debating whether they can afford to
continue teaching next year.)

By raising the percentage of participation i in alumni
fund drives, alumni can materially improve their alma
maters’ standing. That dramatic increases in participation
can be brought about, and quickly, is demonstrated by
the case of Wofford College, a small institution in South
Carolina. Until several years ago, Wofford received
annual gifts from only 12 per cent of its 5,750 alumni.
Then Roger Milliken, a textile manufacturer and a Wof-
ford trustee, issued a challenge: for every percentage-
point increase over 12 per cent, he’d give $1,000. After the
alumni were finished, Mr. Milliken cheerfully turned over
a check for $62,000. Wofford’s alumni had raised their
participation in the annual fund to 74.4 per cent—a new
national record.

“It was a remarkable performance,’ observed the
American Alumni Council. “‘Its impact on Wofford will
be felt for many years to come.”

And what Wofford’s alumni could do, your institution’s
alumni could probably do, too.

* Wrote one alumnus: “‘I see that Stanford is making great prog-
ress. However, I am opposed to progress in any form. Therefore I
am not sending you any money.”

+ A man in Memphis, Tennessee, regularly sent Baylor University
a check signed ‘‘U. R. Stuck.”

§ In her fund reply envelope, a Kansas alumna once sent, without
comment, her household bills for the month.

 

 

memo: from \ K wes
© Husbands

» Women’s colleges, as a group, have had a unique
problem in fund-raising—and they wish they knew how
to solve it.

The loyalty of their alumnae in contributing money
each year—an average of 41.2 per cent took part in 1959
—is nearly double the national average for all universi-
ties, colleges, junior colleges, and privately supported
secondary schools. But the size of the typical gift is often
smaller than one might expect.

Why? The alumnae say that while husbands obviously
place a high value on the products of the women’s col-
leges, many underestimate the importance of giving wom-
en’s colleges the same degree of support they accord their
own alma maters. This, some guess, is a holdover from
the days when higher education for women was regarded
as a luxury, while higher education for men was consid-
ered a sine qua non for business and professional careers.

As a result, again considering the average, women’s
colleges must continue to cover much of their operating
expense from tuition fees. Such fees are generally higher
than those charged by men’s or coeducational institutions,
and the women’s colleges are worried about the social and
intellectual implications of this fact. They have no desire
to be the province solely of children of the well-to-do;
higher education for women is no longer a luxury to be
reserved to those who can pay heavy fees.

Since contributions to education appear to be one area
of family budgets still controlled largely by men, the
alumnae hope that husbands will take serious note of the
women’s colleges’ claim to a larger share of it. They may
be starting to do so: from 1958 to 1959, the average gift
to women’s colleges rose 22.4 per cent. But it still trails
the average gift to men’s colleges, private universities, and
professional schools.

 

 

 

55-Hf Foyer

ERICH HARTMANN, MAGNUM

 

for the Public educational institutions,
a special kind of service

 

UBLICLY SUPPORTED educational institutions owe a
special kind of debt to their alumni. Many people
imagine that the public institutions have no finan-

cial worries, thanks to a steady flow of tax dollars. Yet
they actually lead a perilous fiscal existence, dependent
upon annual or biennial appropriations by legislatures.
More than once, state and municipally supported institu-
tions would have found themselves in serious straits if
their alumni had not assumed a role of leadership.

> A state university in New England recently was put in
academic jeopardy because the legislature defeated a bill
to provide increased salaries for faculty members. Then

the university’s ‘‘Associate Alumni’’ took matters into
their hands. They brought the facts of political and aca-
demic life to the attention of alumni throughout the state,
prompting them to write to their representatives in sup-
port of higher faculty pay. A compromise bill was passed,
and salary increases were granted. Alumni action thus.
helped ease a crisis which threatened to do serious, per-
haps ifreparable, damage to the university.

>» Ina neighboring state, the public university receives
only 38.3 per cent of its operating budget from state and
federal appropriations. Ninety-one per cent of the uni-
versity’s $17 million physical plant was provided by pri-

 

 

 

 

‘Lhe Beneficiaries:

vate funds. Two years ago, graduates of its college of
medicine gave $226,752 for a new medical center—the
largest amount given by the alumni of any American
medical school that year.

> Several years ago the alumni of six state-supported
institutions in a midwestern state rallied support for a
$150 million bond issue for higher education, mental
health, and welfare—an issue that required an amend-
ment to the state constitution. Of four amendments on
the ballot, it was the only one to pass.

> In another midwestern state, action by an ‘“‘Alumni
Council for Higher Education,’’ representing eighteen
publicly supported institutions, has helped produce a $13
million increase in operating funds for 1959-61—the most
significant increase ever voted for the state’s system of
higher education.

OME ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS are forbidden to engage
in political activity of any kind. The intent is a good
one: to keep the organizations out of party politics

 

Students on a state-university campus. Alumni support is proving
invaluable in maintaining high-quality education at such institutions.

and lobbying. But the effect is often to prohibit the alumni
from conducting any organized legislative activity in be-
half of publicly supported education in their states.

**This is unfair,’ said a state-university alumni spokes-
man recently, ““because this kind of activity is neither
shady nor unnecessary.

**But the restrictions—most of which I happen to think
are nonsense—exist, nevertheless. Even so, individual
alumni can make personal contacts with legislators in
their home towns, if not at the State Capitol. Above all,
in their contacts with fellow citizens—with people who
influence public opinion—the alumni of state institutions
must support their alma maters to an intense degree. They
must make it their business to get straight information
and spread it through their circles of influence.

“Since the law forbids us to organize such support,
every alumnus has to start this work, and continue it, on
his own. This isn’t something that most people do natu-
rally—but the education of their own sons and daughters
rests on their becoming aroused and doing it.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WERNER WOLFF, BLACK STAR

a matter of Principle

NY WORTHWHILE INSTITUTION of higher education,
A one college president has said, lives ‘‘in chronic
tension with the society that supports it.” Says
The Campus and the State, a 1959 survey of academic free-
dom in which that president’s words appear: ‘‘New ideas
always run the risk of offending entrenched interests
within the community. If higher education is to be suc-
cessful in its creative role it must be guaranteed some pro-
tection against reprisal. . .”’

The peril most frequently is budgetary: the threat of
appropriations cuts, if the unpopular ideas are not aban-
doned; the real or imagined threat of a loss of public—
even alumni—sympathy.

Probably the best protection against the danger of
reprisals against free institutions of learning is their
alumni: alumni who understand the meaning of freedom
and give their strong and informed support to matters of
educational principle. Sometimes such support is avail-
able in abundance and offered with intelligence. Some-
times—almost always because of misconception or failure
to be vigilant—it is not.

For example:
> An alumnus of one private college was a regular and
heavy donor to the annual alumni fund. He was known to
have provided handsomely for his alma mater in his will.
But when he questioned his grandson, a student at the
old school, he learned that an economics professor not
only did not condemn, but actually discussed the necessity
for, the national debt. Grandfather threatened to withdraw
all support unless the professor ceased uttering such
heresy or was fired. (The professor didn’t and wasn’t. The
college is not yet certain where it stands in the gentleman’s
will.) |
> When no students from a certain county managed to
meet the requirements for admission to a southwestern
university’s medical school, the county’s angry delegate to
the state legislature announced he was “‘out to get this
guy”’—the vice president in charge of the university’s
medical affairs, who had staunchly backed the medical
school’s admissions committee. The board of trustees of
the university, virtually all of whom were alumni, joined
other alumni and the local chapter of the American

Ideas

Association of University Professors to rally successfully
to the v.p.’s support. |

> When the president of a publicly supported institu-
tion recently said he would have to limit the number of
students admitted to next fall’s freshman class if high
academic standards were not to be compromised, some
constituent-fearing legislators were wrathful. When the
issue was explained to them, alumni backed the presi-
dent’s position—decisively.

> When a number of institutions (joined in December
by President Eisenhower) opposed the ‘‘disclaimer affida-
vit” required of students seeking loans under the National
Defense Education Act, many citizens—including some
alumni—assailed them for their stand against ‘‘swearing
allegiance to the United States.’’ The fact is, the dis-
claimer affidavit is not an oath of allegiance to the United
States (which the Education Act also requires, but which
the colleges have not opposed). Fortunately, alumni who
took the trouble to find out what the affidavit really was
apparently outnumbered, by a substantial majority, those
who leaped before they looked. Coincidentally or not,
most of the institutions opposing the disclaimer affidavit
received more money from their alumni during the con-
troversy than ever before in their history.

N THE FUTURE, as in the past, educational institutions
I worth their salt will be in the midst of controversy.
Such is the nature of higher education: ideas are its
merchandise, and ideas new and old are frequently con-
troversial. An educational institution, indeed, may be
doing its job badly if it is not involved in controversy, at
times. If an alumnus never finds himself in disagreement
with his alma mater, he has a right to question whether
his alma mater is intellectually awake or dozing.

To understand this is to understand the meaning of
academic freedom and vitality. And, with such an under-
standing, an alumnus is equipped to give his highest serv-
ice to higher education; to give his support to the princi-
ples which make-higher education free and effectual.

If higher education is to prosper, it will need this kind
of support from its alumni—tomorrow even more than in
its gloriously stormy past.

are the merchandise of education, and every worthwhile educational institution must provide and
guard the conditions for breeding them. To do so, they need the help and vigilance of their alumni.

 

 

 

‘The Art

ROLAND READ

 

 

of keeping intellectually alive for a lifetime
will be fostered more than ever by a
growing alumni-alma mater relationship.

Ahead:

HITHER THE COURSE of the relationship between

alumni and alma mater? At the turn into the

Sixties, it is evident that a new and challenging
relationship—of unprecedented value to both the institu-
tion and its alumni—is developing.

> If alumni wish, their intellectual voyage can be
continued for a lifetime.

There was a time when graduation was the end. You
got your diploma, along with the right to place certain
initials after your name; your hand was clasped for an
instant by the president; and the institution’s business
was done.

If you were to keep yourself intellectually awake, the
No-Doz would have to be self-administered. If you were
to renew your acquaintance with literature or science, the
introductions would have to be self-performed.

Automotion is still the principal driving force. The
years in school and college are designed to provide the
push and then the momentum to keep you going with
your mind. ‘‘Madam, we guarantee results,’ wrote a col-
lege president to an inquiring mother, “‘—or we return
the boy.”’ After graduation, the guarantee is yours to
maintain, alone.

Alone, but not quite. It makes little sense, many edu-
cators say, for schools and colleges not to do whatever
they can to protect their investment in their students—
which is considerable, in terms of time, talents, and
money—and not to try to make the relationship between
alumni and their alma maters a two-way flow.

As a consequence of such thinking, and of demands
issuing from the former students themselves, alumni
meetings of all types—local clubs, campus reunions—are
taking on a new character. ‘“There has to be a reason and
a purpose for a meeting,’ notes an alumna. ‘Groups that
meet for purely social reasons don’t last long. Just be-
cause Mary went to my college doesn’t mean I enjoy
being with her socially—but I might well enjoy working
with her in a serious intellectual project.’’ Male alumni
agree; there is a limit to the congeniality that can be main-
tained solely by the thin thread of reminiscences or small-
talk.

But there is no limit, among people with whom their

 

a new Challenge.
a new relationship

education ‘‘stuck,” to the revitalizing effects of learning.
The chemistry professor who is in town for a chemists’
conference and is invited to address the local chapter of
the alumni association no longer feels he must talk about
nothing more weighty than the beauty of the campus
elms; his audience wants him to talk chemistry, and he is
delighted to oblige. The engineers who return to school
for their annual homecoming welcome the opportunity to
bring themselves up to date on developments in and out
of their specialty. Housewives back on the campus for
reunions demand—and get—seminars and short-courses.

But the wave of interest in enriching the intellectual
content of alumni meetings may be only a beginning.
With more leisure at their command, alumni will have
the time (as they already have the inclination) to under-
take more intensive, regular educational programs.

If alumni demand them, new concepts in adult educa-
tion may emerge. Urban colleges and universities may
step up their offerings of programs designed especially for
the alumni in their communities—not only their own
alumni, but those of distant institutions. Unions and
government and industry, already experimenting with
graduate-education programs for their leaders, may find
ways of giving sabbatical leaves on a widespread basis—
and they may profit, in hard dollars-and-cents terms, from
the results of such intellectual re-charging.

Colleges and universities, already overburdened with
teaching as well as other duties, will need help if such

dreams are to come true. But help will be found if the -

demand is insistent enough.

> Alumni partnerships with their alma mater, in

meeting ever-stiffer educational challenges, will grow

even closer than they have been.

Boards of overseers, visiting committees, and other
partnerships between alumni and their institutions are
proving, at many schools. colleges, and universities, to be
channels through which the educators can keep in touch
with the community at large and vice versa. Alumni trus-
tees, elected by their fellow alumni, are found on the gov-
erning boards of more and more institutions. Alumni
‘‘without portfolio” are seeking ways to join with their
alma maters in advancing the cause of education. The

representative of a West Coast university has noted the
trend: “‘In selling memberships in our alumni associa-
tion, we have learned that, while it’s wise to list the bene-
fits of membership, what interests them most is how they
can be of service to the university.”’

> Alumni can have a decisive role in maintaining
high standards of education, even as enrollments
increase at most schools and colleges.

There is a real crisis in American education: the crisis
of quality. For a variety of reasons, many institutions find
themselves unable to keep their faculties staffed with high-
caliber men and women. Many lack the equipment
needed for study and research. Many, even in this age of
high student population, are unable to attract the quality
of student they desire. Many have been forced to dissipate
their teaching and research energies, in deference to pub-
lic demand for more and more extracurricular ‘‘services.”’
Many, besieged by applicants for admission, have had to
yield to pressure and enroll students who are unqualified.

Each of these problems has a direct bearing upon the
quality of education in America. Each is a problem to
which alumni can constructively address themselves, indi-
vidually and in organized groups.

Some can best be handled through community leader-
ship: helping present the institutions’ case to the public.
Some can be handled by direct participation in such ac-
tivities as academic talent-scouting, in which many insti-
tutions, both public and private, enlist the aid of their
alumni in meeting with college-bound high school stu-
dents in their cities and towns. Some can be handled by
making more money available to the institutions—for
faculty salaries, for scholarships, for buildings and equip-
ment. Some can be handled through political action.

The needs vary widely from institution to institution—
and what may help one may actually set back another.
Because of this, it is important to maintain a close liaison
with the campus when undertaking such work. (Alumni
offices everywhere will welcome inquiries. )

When the opportunity for aid does come—as it has in
the past. and as it inevitably will in the years ahead—
alumni response will be the key to America’s educational
future, and to all that depends upon it.

 

alumni-
ship

4. MASEFIELD was addressing himself to the subject
of universities. ‘“They give to the young in their impres-
sionable years the bond of a lofty purpose shared,” he
said; ‘‘of a great corporate life whose links will not be
loosed until they die.”

The links that unite alumni with each other and with
their alma mater are difficult to define. But every alum-
nus and alumna knows they exist, as surely as do the
campus’s lofty spires and the ageless dedication of edu-
cated men and women to the process of keeping them-
selves and their children intellectually alive.

Once one has caught the spirit of learning, of truth, of
probing into the undiscovered and unknown—the spirit
of his alma mater—one does not really lose it, for as
long as one lives. As life proceeds, the daily mechanics
of living—of job-holding, of family-rearing, of mortgage-
paying, of lawn-cutting, of meal-cooking—sometimes
are tedious. But for them who have known the spirit of
intellectual adventure and conquest, there is the bond of
the lofty purpose shared, of ‘the great corporate life
whose links will not be loosed until they die.

This would be the true meaning of alumni-ship, were
there such a word. It is the reasoning behind the great
service that alumni give to education. It is the reason
alma maters can call upon their alumni for responsible
support of all kinds, with confidence that the responsi-
bility will be well met.

ALUMN®%.

The material on this and the preceding 15
pages was prepared in behalf of more than 350
schools, colleges, and universities in the United
States, Canada, and Mexico by the staff listed
below, who have formed EDITORIAL PROJECTS
FOR EDUCATION, INC., through which to per-
form this function. £.P.£., INC., is a non-profit
organization associated with the American
Alumni Council. The circulation of this supple-
ment is 2,900,000.

DAVID A. BURR
The University of Oklahoma
GEORGE J. COOKE
Princeton University
DAN ENDSLEY
Stanford University
DAN H. FENN, JR.
Harvard Business School
RANDOLPH L. FORT
Emory University
J. ALFRED GUEST
Amherst College
L. FRANKLIN HEALD
The University of New Hampshire
CHARLES M. HELMKEN
Saint John’s University
JEAN D. LINEHAN
American Alumni Council
MARALYN ORBISON
Swarthmore College
_ROBERT L. PAYTON
Washington University
FRANCES PROVENCE
Baylor University
ROBERT M. RHODES
Lehigh University
WILLIAM SCHRAMM, JR.
The University of Pennsylvania
VERNE A. STADTMAN
The University of California
. FREDERIC A. STOTT
Phillips Academy (Andover)
FRANK J. TATE
The Ohio State University
ERIK WENSBERG
Columbia University
CHARLES E. WIDMAYER
Dartmouth College
REBA WILCOXON
The University of Arkansas
CHESLEY WORTHINGTON
Brown University
*
CORBIN GWALTNEY
Executive Editor
HAROLD R. HARDING
Assistant Secretary-Treasurer
*k
All rights reserved; no part of this supplement
may be reproduced without the express per-
mission of the editors. Copyright © 1960 by
Editorial Projects for Education, Inc., Room
411, 1785 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D.C. EDITORIAL ADDRESS: P.O. Box 5653,
Baltimore 10, Md. Printed in U.S.A.

 

A Note to Mou “Personally ...

LONG WITH all the well-stated

foregoing suggestions of what

you, the alumnus, can do for us,

wed like to point briefly at what

we hope WE’RE accomplishing for
YOU.

First, to weld Washington and
Lee’s ten thousand living alumni
into a group, through University-
to-you contacts: our mailings, this
magazine, our personal answers to
your letters, reunions, Homecom-
ing, and our standing invitations
to come back to Lexington to see
us and the college. The alumni as-
association which conducts your
business affairs is governed by a
a board of trustees, elected by you
and any alumnus who has matters
of interest to be considered by the
Association simply contacts any of
these representatives. It is a respon-
sibility and even a duty incumbent
upon you to earnestly and consci-
entiously seek capable and forceful
representatives. ‘This magazine car-
ries the nominees suggested by your
committee after reviewing the can-
didates whom you named.

Second, to keep you informed
about the University. This is done
in several ways: through speakers
from Washington and Lee to your
chapter meetings; through pro-
grams at the college, such as Tucker
Law Lectures, seminars, and—when
you come back to reunions—lectures
by faculty members on pertinent
subjects, bolstered by tours to new
campus facilities. Our main con-
tact, of course, is this magazine,
which is sent free to all interested
alumni, four or five times per year.
We try to include in the magazine
what we think interests you—news
about each other, about chapter
meetings, campus news, plus spe-
cial articles on subjects which, in
our opinion, warrant them. A few
alumni complain that we “waste”
space on academic and_= sports
news—they’d rather not read about

SPRING 1960

anything but alumni. Some criticize
us for printing the class notes sec-
tion in smaller type without real-
izing the obvious reason—we can get
more news in that space, and we
think you'd rather have the extra
class notes than have less of them
in bigger print. And while we’re
on the subject of class notes—we
know it’s your favorite section of
the book. So give us a helping hand
and let us hear from you about
your businesses, family, trips, hon-
ors, and so forth. If we don’t get
the word about you, we can’t print
the word. The magazine is to be the
lifeline from us to you.

The Alumni Association is
your representative, your ambassa-
dor of good will at the University.
It handles myriads of requests for
information; it keeps a personal file
on each one of you. It is the contact
between you and the present under-
graduates who soon will be joining
the alumni ranks. It holds a yearly
dinner for seniors, at which time
the Alumni Association’s work and
purpose is explained. It assists other
departments at the University in
facets of their work which involve
you. It receives the profit from
sale of the Washington and Lee
chairs for building the scholarship
fund in memory of John Graham,
14. It acts as your contact for hous-
ing when you and your families
come to Lexington. It performs
many services of a personal nature,
in response to your telephoned or
written request.

It’s your alumni association! We
want to be of service to you, and
we all have the same aim... to
purpose ourselves “... for the bene-
fit of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity... to aid the University in any
and all ways that may be deemed
proper ...and keep the bond be-
tween Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and her alumni close and
continuous,”

 

(Continued from page 6)

lina Utilities Commission to organize an
accounting department. He remained with
North Carolina Utilities until 1956 when
he became Comptroller of Lee Telephone
Company in Martinsville, Virginia. He and
Mrs. Choate have two daughters, both of
whom reside in Winston-Salem.

CALVIN 'T. BURTON is an ear, eye, nose and
throat physician in Roanoke. He has just
completed a year as president of Virginia
Society of Ophthalmology and Otolarya-
gology. Calvin and Mrs. Burton (Hollins
29), have four children, a daughter at
Randolph-Macon, a daughter at Penn
Hall, a son at V.E.S., and one son at home.
The Burtons plan to visit Europe in
May to attend the meeting of the Inter-
national College of Surgeons in Rome.

CHARLES S. HeILIG has a mattress business
in Salisbury, North Carolina. He and his
wife, Mary, have five sons. One son is in
the Air Force, a second is in University
of North Carolina and the other three
are at home. Since 1929, Charles has been
treasurer of North Carolina Lutheran
Synod which has grown in scope and size
tremendously over this period.

Bo McMILLAN is the grandfather of four
now. His son, a former basketball star at
William and Mary, is in the motor freight
line and retail coal yard business with Bo.
Bo had a heart attack five years ago but
has been just fine since. He still sees a lot
of football games, ‘Tennessee and Georgia
Tech being among his favorite teams.

CHARLES S. GAINES, JR., is associated with
Shook and Fletcher Supply Company in
Birmingham, Alabama. The Gaines have
a son, Charles, III, 18 years, and a daugh-
ter, Hansell, who is 16 years.

2 6 LEE FAGAN has taken an early re-

tirement from his position with Atlantic
Greyhound Corporation in Charleston,
West Virginia and is taking life easier at
his home in Stanardsville, Virgiina.

LE Dr. JosEPH B. CLOWER, JR., a mem-

ber of the faculty at Hampden-Sydney
College, is the author of a book called,
“The Church in the Thought of Jesus,”
published March 21 by the John Knox
Press of Richmond. It is essentially a
unit of Bible study revolving around the
theme of the church as it was implicit in
the life and teachings of Jesus. It is a
book designed for ministers and thought-
ful laymen, and for use in college classes
in Bible and religion.

23

 

30 After a slight heart attack in 1954,
James B. Merrick of Crumpton, Mary-
land, has managed to condition himselt
in such a way to participate again in
active games of tennis. James stipulates
that his success is due to a low fat, low
cholesterol diet and recommends that any
of his class having the same problems
do likewise.

Ep I. Bostwick is still claim manager for
the ‘Travelers Insurance Company and
Indemnity Company in Virginia. His of-
fice is in the new Seaboard Building at
3610 West Broad street, Richmond. Ed
and his wife have a daughter, presently a
senior at St. Mary’s Junior College.

34 SAMUEL L. CLARK is an auditor-

accountant in the Department of Revenue
of Pennsylvania, and has been develop-
ing his own public accounting practice,
specializing in tax work. Recently, he has
been tutoring in the accounting field. He
is the father of two prospective Generals,
ages 16 and 13. ‘The older son won first
prize in engineering at a local Science
Fair, and the younger won a third in
mathematics. In 1951, Sam received a med-
ical discharge from the regular Air Force.
He served as an officer in England dur-
ing World War II.

WILLIAM S. STERN has been in the food
brokerage business in New York City since
being discharged from the Army in 1945.
His firm is the William H. Morse Com-
pany. Bill hated to miss the twenty-fifth
reunion of his class last June, but he was
visiting in Southern France at the time.

35 Dr. E. Ltoyp WATKINS is new pres-

ident of the medical staff at Chestnut Hill
Hospital in Philadelphia. He is also di-
rector of obstetrics and gynecology there.

Kari P. WILLARD is president of the Na-
tional Association of Mirror Manufactur-
ers. He has his own mirror firm in Fort
Smith, Arkansas. His daughter, Jeanne,
is a freshman at Hollins this year.

LeRoy Hopces, Jr. has recently joined the
staff of the Foreign Agricultural Service,
Tobacco Division, U. S. Department of
Agriculture. He made a trip around the
world last fall trying to help sell surplus
U.S. leaf tobacco. His address is: Hunt-
ing towers, Apt. 731-W, Alexandria, Vir-
ginia.

24

 

Jack W. WARNER, ’40, second from right, president of the Alabama State Chamber of
Commerce, was an honor guest at the recent annual Monigomery, Alabama, Chamber
dinner. U.S. Senator Stuart Symington, left, was speaker. Others in the picture are cen-
ter, president CARL BEAR, °33, and Major General R. P. Sworrorpd of the Air University.

3/ ARTHUR W.. SINCLAIR has’ been

judge of Circuit Court in the Sixteenth
Judicial Circuit of Virginia for the past
ten years. He and his wife are the parents
of two daughters, ages 14 and 6 years.
His home is in Manassas, Virginia.

JosepH M. ‘TAytor has recently been
named Richmond manager of Fidelity and
Deposit Company of Maryland, under-
writers. He joined the company in 1940
in New Orleans, and in 1947 was trans-
ferred to Richmond as assistant manager.
Since 1952, he has been manager of the
Greensboro, North Carolina office.

38 Victor L. TUCKER is a Commander

in the Navy, and is Navy Law Specialist
at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Par-
ris Island, South Carolina. He reviews
Summary and = Special Courts-martial
cases. Since his recall to the service ten
years ago, he has moved around quite
often, including one tour of duty in the
Philippine Islands. He and his wife are
the parents of three sons, ages 17, 12, and
+, the oldest of whom is a student at
Greenbrier Military School in West Vir-
ginia. The Tuckers have been stationed
at Parris Island for three years, and will
live there for one more year. Address:
Quarters 218, Parris Island, South Caro-
lina.

After completing a two-year term as
councilman of Franklin Village, a_resi-
dential suburb of Detroit, CALVERT
THomas is now president. He is also
president of the Babe Ruth League. He
and his wife, Margaret, are active in the
dramatic group, the Franklin Village
Players. Calvert is an attorney on the

legal staff of General Motors Corporation,
specializing in tax matters. He and Mrs.
Thomas have three sons and a daughter.

Dr. A. COMPTON BRODERS is practicing in-
ternal medicine and gastroenterology. He
and his wife, Peggy, an alumna of Hol-
lins, have four sons, ages 12, 10, 8, and 6.

WittiAM L. WILson, president of the
Upper Potomac alumni chapter, has
been appointed a member of the Alle-
gany County Board of Education by
Maryland Governor Tawes. Bill has also
served on a special committee, appointed
by the Governor, to make a survey of
the higher education facilities in the state,
and to make recommendations to improve
the facilities. He is a member of the
board of directors of the First National
Bank and Trust Company, president of
the Queen City Brewing Company, chair-
man of the County Civil Service Board,
and a former attorney to the Board of
Education of Allegany county.

WiLuiAM H. DANIEL owns a farm in
Rogers, Arkansas, where he sells rainbow
trout to the market or on special order.
Bill and Louise have two daughters and
plan to bring them to Virginia this spring
with the view of looking over some of
the girl’s colleges in this area.

3 9 GEORGE GoopwIn has been elected

a trustee of Oglethorpe University in At-
lanta, Georgia. George is vice-president of
the First National Bank of Atlanta, in
charge of advertising and public relations.

ANDREW J. WHITE is president and co-
owner of the Palmetto Loom Reed Com-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

pany in Greenville, South Carolina. He
and his wife have two sons and one
daughter.

Ropniy L. OpeLi resides in Upper Mon-
clair, New Jersey, where he is presently
the telegraph and makeup editor for the
Herald-News in the Passic-Clifton, New
Jersey, area. The Odells are parents of
four children and spend their summers on
their own farm in northern Vermont,
where Rod boasts that he raises his own
vegetables and pork for an entire year.

40 WiLBur S. METCALF is a_ special

agent of the F.B.I., and has been sta-
tioned .for the past six years in Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania. He and his wife have
four children, Mike, 12; Laura, 9; Rich-
ard, 7; and Robert, 5. Mrs. Metcalf re-
cently succeeded her husband as_ presi-
dent of the P-TA in Lemoyne, Pennsy]-
vania, where they live.

ERNEST Woopwarp, II, a member of the
Organized Reserve in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, ever since his release from World
War II duty, was named the Officer of
the Day during National Defense week,
by the Louisville chapter of the Reserve
Officers Association. Ernie, a reserve lieu-
tenant colonel, fought with the 25th In-
fantry Division in the Pacific, where he
was wounded, and also served with oc-
cupation troops in Japan. He is now a
training officer on the G-3 staff of the
100th Infantry Division. Ernie is a_ for-
mer president of the general Alumni As-
sociation of Washington and Lee.

4]... James F. NorTon is a general
practitioner in East Aurora, Illinois. He
is the father of two boys and two girls.

SAMUEL CREED GHOLSON was awarded a
two-year Rhinehart Fellowship in Sculp-
ture by the Maryland Institute in Feb-
ruary. His present address is 1220 Linden
Avenue, Baltimore 17, Maryland.

42 W. S. “Scotr” GILMER, JR. is a

practicing doctor in Memphis where he
is associated with the University of ‘Ten-
nessess as a pathologist, and with the
Campbell Orthopedic Clinic. Scott and
his wife, Betty, have three children—two
daughters, age 14 and 10, and a son, Scott,
age 6. The family spent a month this past
summer in Mobile where they renewed
acquaintances with Joe Mighell, ‘40, and
Guy Oswalt, °40, and several others.

RAMON M. SAvREZ is a_ practicing phy-
sician in Santurce, Puerto Rico where
he is director of the Hospital Mimiya. He
and his wife are the proud parents of
nine children—seven daughters and two
sons. His address is: Hospital Mimiya,
Avenida de Diego 303, Santurce 29, Peur-
to Rico.

RAYMOND B. WHITAKER for the past
twelve years has been practicing law in

SPRING 1960

Casper, Wyoming. Ray advises this area
is a paradise for hunters of deer, ante-
lope, and elk.

4 3 FREDERICK W. BAUER is a research

chemist with the research center of U.S.
Rubber Company. He was recently en-
dorsed by the Republican organization for
the Township Committee in Wayne, New

Jersey.

R. FrANcis (FRANK) JOHNSON, Th.D., is
now Associate Professor of Biblical Lan-
guages at Episcopal Theological Seminary
of the Southwest, Austin, Texas. Frank
has been awarded a grant for faculty re-
search and study projects in theological
education by the American Association of
Theological Schools and beginning Sep-
tember, 1960, will study in Switzerland and
Germany on problems in the theology
of the Old ‘Testament. His family will
accompany him and since his four chil-
dren will be attending school in German-
speaking Switzerland, they are now sub-
mitting to German instruction from their
dad.

AG HARRISON KINNEY’S new novel,

“Has Anybody Seen My Father?” is due to
be published by Simon and Schuster in
early July. A volume for juveniles, “The
Kangaroo in the Attic” will be published
by McGraw-Hill (Whittlesey House) in the
fall, illustrated by the New Yorker maga-
ine artist, Alain. Busy as a bee, he has also
sold a short story to Good Housekeeping,
and an article to Family Circle magazine.
His wife, Doris, authored a handbook
for Life magazine, and is researching for a
documentary television series on Wins-
ton Churchill’s biography, to begin on
ABC-TV next January. All this, and they
have four children, too—one of them a
new baby. The girls are 7, 5, and 2, and
John Harrison was born January 1, 1960.
Address: 52 Mt. Airy Road, Croton-on-
Hudson, New York.

45 Joun I. Woop for the past two

years has been advertising manager for
the International Editions of Life mag-
azine for France, Holland, Belgium and
Spain, and lives in’ Paris. at 10 Villa
Soucher. He married Beatrice Goudchaux
in March of 1956 and has two children:
a daughter Linda, age three and a son,
Ronald Burwell, age 18 months.

46 Ropert H. GRaAy is copy director

of the Atlantic National Advertising
Agency in Norfolk, Virginia.

48 FreEDERIC B. M. HOLLADAY, an

assistant professor of history at Duke
University, is the author of a political bio-

graphy of General Albrecht von Stosch,
titled, “Bismarck’s Rival,’ published by
the Duke University Press. The author has
worked and studied in Germany and has
taught at Case Institute of Technology
and Birmingham-Southern College. He is
one of the authors of “Power, Public
Opinion, and Diplomacy,” published last
year.

CHARLES McDowé Lt, Jr., a columnist for
the Richmond Times-Dispatch in Rich-
mond, Virginia, was named winner of a
Headliner Award “for outstanding jour-
nalism achievement” during the past year.
It was one of twenty-four such awards
made by the National Headliner Club at
the club’s annual luncheon in Atlantic
City, New Jersey. Charles has been with
the newspaper since 1949, and has been
writing a column since 1956. One of his
assignments last September was to follow
the Khrushchev tour of the United States.

q 9 RONALD A. SHERWOOD is a credit

representative of the Chase Manhattan
Bank. He is president of the Ryerson
School PTA, and treasurer of the First
Baptist church of Passaic, New Jersey.

CHARLES R. ‘TREADGOLD, formerly of
Charleston, West Virginia, has recently
moved to Wyckoff, New Jersey, where he
is state agent for the General America
Group of Insurance Companies. ‘The east-
ern division office, of which Charles is the
manager, controls the operations for the
company in the states of New York, Con-
necticut and New Jersey. Charles and _ his
wife are parents of a five-year-old son and
twin boys, born in July, 1959.

Dr. DupLeEy EARL Brown, formerly of
Rockville, Maryland, is now the Chief of
Psychiatry at the United States Marine

 

Lr. CoLt. R. MARLOWE HARPER, 747 is now
treasurer of Virginia Military Institute,
and secretary to the Board of Visitors.

29

 

 

Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island, South
Carolina.

Dr. HeENry P. LAmps, Jr., is a dentist in
Richmond, Virginia. He and his wife,
Anne, live in a split level home at 616
Horsepen Road, and enjoy reading,
bowling, and dramatics.

Joun S. R. SCHOENFELD writes that, on a
recent business trip to Dallas, ‘Texas, he
saw Don Harrison and five other Wash-
ington and Lee friends. Said he heard
some hilarious tales of Norfleet “Turner
catching a bandit with the help of one
of television’s Western heroes, while Nor-
fleet was in California. John and his wife,
Florence, have two sons, John and Dick,
and are looking forward to a third child
in June. He and Tom Pritchett, ’50, have
recently bought a Cessna airplane and are
both enjoying the new method of trans-
portation. John is in investment banking,
with one of Washington’s best-known
firms, Ferris and Company.

WALTER H. WILLIAMS has recently been
made Director of Property Management
for Slater and Vaughan, Realtors and is
responsible for all residential and com-
mercial rentals and leasing; also, all in-
dustrial and commercial sales and de-
velopment. Also he has recently been
elected editor of the Richmond Realtor,
quarterly Virginia real estate magazine.

5 0 M. G. (PAT) ROBERTSON, a minis-

ter in Tidewater Virginia, is operating an
ultra-high frequency television station in
Portsmouth, Virginia, as a “Christian sta-
tion, dedicated primarily to bringing glory
to Almighty God.” Its call letters are
WTFC-TV (Television For Christ). The
interdenominational, non-profit station
will offer a well-rounded program of
religion, culture, and wholesome enter-
tainment for youth. “Commercial tele-
vision has pandered too long to the baser
side of the American Citizen,” he said.
“We shall appeal to his spiritual nature.”
Plans are to .broadcast from 3 p.m. to
10 p.m. six days a week. Institutional
advertising will be accepted, the minister
said, but “no beer, cigarette, or deodorant
advertising.” ‘“This will be a faith under-
taking. If God blesses this undertaking in
Tidewater, we intend to encourage other
localities to follow suit until there is a
nation-wide network of Christian tele-
vision stations.”

Tuomas D. GILLIAM, JR. has been named
Young Man of the Year in Statesville,
North Carolina, by the Junior Chamber
of Commerce there. He is executive vice

26

president of Gilliam Furniture, Incorpor-
ated, is past president of Statesville K1-
wanis club, served as campaign chairman
of the Iredell-Statesville United Fund,
and is a member of the Official Board of
the Broad Street Methodist Church. He
is married and the father of two daugh-
ters.

Lee F. Roperrs is vice president of a
lumberman’s club and was one of four
in the group of 200 awarded a free trip
to the club’s national convention in Du-
luth. He is a director of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce as well. Address:
4502 Edgefield Road, Kensington, Mary-
land.

GrEorRGE H. DENNy, JR. received his Ph.D.
in chemistry from Johns Hopkins in 1954
and is now assistant professor of chemistry
at Arlington State College, Arlington,
‘Texas.

RICHARD W. HuBBARD was recently pro-
moted to sales and merchandise manager
of the J. C. Penney Company of Alex-
andria, a multi-million dollar unit of
the department store chain which has
stores in every state in the union.

Birt Pacy of Baltimore, Maryland, is
launching this season near the resort of
Ocean City, Maryland, a replica of a Fron-
tier Town. It will be complete with gold
panning facilities, fugitives from justice,
Indians and covered wagons, a haunted
house, “Cactus Canyon,’ and of course,
a restaurant with “real Western food.”

WILLIAM HAROLD HArkrIs is sales manage
of Hoehn Chevrolet Company, in Mem-
phis. He is the father of two sons, ages
nine and seven. His address is: 44 North
Alicia Drive, Memphis 12, ‘Tennessee.

HowarpD STEELE is presently teaching at
Clemson College and doing research in
agriculture economics. In 1959, while on
leave of absence he completed his Ph.D.
at the University of Kentucky. Mr. and
Mrs. Steele have three children, two sons,
age seven and five, and one daughter, age
three.

BRUCE PARKINSON is new vice-president of
the E. J. Spangler Company of Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. It is an envelope
manufacturer celebrating its one hun-
dredth anniversary this year.

James A. CONNELLY, JR., has been named
superintendent of the agency department
of Aetna Casualty and Surety Company
at Buffalo, New York. He joined the com-
pany in 1955, and has been serving as
field representative at Newark, New

Jersey.

GerRRY U. STEVENS has been elected a
vice-president of the American Nation-
al Bank and ‘Trust Company in Chatta-
nooga, ‘Tennessee. He is president of the
United Cerebral Palsy Association’ of
Tennessee, and a deacon in the First
Presbyterian church.

Dr. JOHN S. CHAPMAN is practicing inter-
nal medicine in Dubuque, Iowa. He is now

the father of four children, Cathy, Ste-
phen, Beth and Carol.

ROBERT F. SILVERSTEIN is busily engaged
in the operation of a general insurance
agency and was a million dollar producer
in life insurance for several years. He
and his wife, Joan, are the parents of
a daughter, Laurie, and two sons, James
and Kenneth.

DonaLp A. MALMO is associated with the
law firm of Donelson and Adams, Meim-
phis, Tennessee. He and his wife have
three children, Beth, Andy, and new-
comer Murrey Kirkpatrick.

STANLEY BROWN is minister of evangelism
at Central Methodist church in Phoenix,
Arizona. His church has a membership of
4,200. The Browns have three children,
Kathy, Tommy, and Elizabeth.

DABNEY CHAPMAN Is director of the U.S.
Cultural Center, “America-Haus” in the
university town of Tuebingen, Germany.
He and his wife, Nancy, have two sons,
Nathaniel, three, and William, six months.

Ep CAMPBELL, sports editor of the News
and Courier, Charleston, South Carolina,
was recently re-elected president of the
Southern Conference Sports Writers Asso-
ciation.

57 ‘THOMAS ALLEN LUuUPTON, JR. is

president of the Stone Fort Land Com-
pany, a real estate holding company in
Chattanooga, ‘Tennessee. He is presently
the chairman of the Chamber of Com-
merce Industrial Committee of 100 and
president of the Lookout Boosters Club,
an operating company for Chattanooga’s
independent baseball club. ‘Tom and _ his
wife, the former Beth Marley of Mem-
phis, ‘Tennessee, have two children, Kim-
briel, 3, and ‘Thomas Allen, III, 114 years
old.

MILBURN K. NOELL, JR. is now associated
in the practice of law with the firm of
Waring, Walker, Cox and Lewis, 2410
Sterick Building, Memphis 3, ‘Tennessee.

52 Ropert W. Storey has_ recently

become a partner of the law firm of How-
ard, Hays and Storey in Atlanta, Georgia.

F. NELSON LiGHT is judge of the County
Court, and Juvenile and Domestic Rela-
tions Court in Chatham, Virginia. He is
also still a member of the Naval Reserve,
in which he was promoted to lieutenant
commander last year. His squadron spent
two weeks at the Naval Air Station, Guan-
tanamo Bay, Cuba in January, Nelson’s
twin sons, now fourteen years old, are
attending Hargrave Military Academy.

RicHARD A. DENNY, JR. has become a
partner in the law firm of Spalding, Sib-
ley, Troutman, Meadow and Smith. Ad-
dress: 434 ‘Trust Company of Georgia
Building, Atlanta 3, Georgia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

NEWS—WE GOT IT!

In the summer issue of the
Alumni Magazine we'll have
big news for you. There'll be
stories and pictures on the in-
auguration of President Fred
C. Cole; the Democratic Mock
Convention here, featuring
keynoter Harry S. Truman;
the ten, twenty-five, forty, and
fifty-year Reunions on May
20-22, and the 1960 .Gom-
mencement. Plus, of course,
news and pictures of you and
your classmates.

 

 

 

53 CHARLES MONZELUA has been with

the Huntington, West Virginia, bureau of
the Associated Press as a radio news edi-
tor since graduation. Charles’ wife was
woman’s page editor of the Herald-Dis-
patch before the arrival of their first
child, a son, Paul Stanton, on February
7, 1960.

WYATT FRENCH, JR., Richmond, Virginia
insurance representative, has taken over
as Grand Praetor of the Virginia province
of Sigma Chi Fraternity.

GORDON RIESNER is now associated as ac-
count executive with the Alban Corpor-
ation, public relations, 400 Park Avenue,
New York.

54 NORMAN Dosyns, Class Agent for

1954-A, was stricken with a sudden ill-
ness requiring his hospitalization in late
February. In spite of his confinement to
the hospital, Norman and _ his_ wife,
Yvonne, succeeded in corresponding with
each of his classmates in connection with
the Alumni Fund. Such valor from this
Mr. and Mrs. combination is certainly de-
serving of a medal.

Henry C. Murrey, JR., is a district group
representative of Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Company, with offices at
105 West Adams Street, Chicago, Illinois.
He joined the company last year, having
formerly been associated with the First
National Bank of Chicago. He and_ his
wife are the parents of two daughters,
Cynthia Anne, four, and Pamela, two, and
they live at 5428 Benton Avenue, Dow-
ners Grove, Illinois.

J. Penrop TOLEs is running for the Dem-
ocratic nomination of New Mexico Sena-
tor from Chaves County, with the primary
set for May. He entered the private prac-
tice of law in 1958. Now associated with

SPRING 1960

him is George E. Ward, ’59. He is the

father of two sons, Perry, and ‘Tyler.

JAMEs C. CONNER is finishing up his first
year of a two-year program, the “Foreign
Law Program” at the University of Chi-
cago’s Law School. He leaves in June for
a year of study at the faculty of law, Uni-
versity of Aix-en-Provence, France, com-
bined with practical work in French Com-
mercial Law. If any alumni pass through
the Aix area, he says stop and see him.

Jacos A. Sirrs writes that he is now in
Albany, New York, serving as district of-
fice manager for Goodyear ‘Tire and
Rubber Company, and that he and _ his
wife have a son, William ‘Thomas, born
March 138, 1959.

Dr. BYRON PHILLIP KOCEN is at the present
time serving a residency in pediatrics at
the University of ‘Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, ‘Texas. He and his wife are the
parents of a son, Bradley Kramer, born
January 20, 1960.

55 WILLIAM W. DAvis is. associated

with the Kentucky Insurance Agency, Inc.
of Lexington, Kentucky, the world’s
largest insurer of thoroughbred race
horses. He recently attended an advanced
Casualty and Property Insurance course
at Maryland Casulty Company in Balti-
more, Maryland.

WILLIAM KERFOOT DUNKER has bought a
house at 1701 Independence’ Road,
Greensboro, North Carolina. He and_ his
wife, Bette, and four-year-old Janet will
occupy it.

PAuL R. MULLER writes: “I am currently
serving on active duty in the Army as a
low-man-on-totem-pole (Pfc) with about
nine months of my tour remaining. My
duty station is in Oberursel, Germany,
which is about ten miles northwest of
Frankfurt. In June, 1958, I received my
law degree from U. Va. and, wonder of
wonders, I have actually been able to use
my legal background in my assignment
here in Germany.”

Joun F. Davin is working for National
Aeronautic and Space Agency as a re-
search scientist in the Meteorology Branch.
He and his wife, Mary Lou, have a son,
John, III.

Dr. WATSON A. Bowes, JR. is presently
finishing medical internship at Mary
Hitchcock Memorial Hospital in Hanover,
New Hampshire. Watson and his wife
have a 3-month-old daughter, Rebecca.

WILLIAM STANARD PROWELL served in
Seoul, Korea with CARE 1g months. He
is now in Warsaw, Poland, care of Amer-
ican Embassy.

ALLEN L. LipseTT is assistant to the pres-
ident of Booth and Flinn Company, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, heavy construction
firm. He is the father of two future Minks,
Mark and _ Jeffrey.

 

STEPHEN BERG, 58, is now associated with
Doremus-Eshleman Company, advertising
and public relations firm in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. He was formerly with the
Curtis Publishing Company. Addresss 525
Pelham Road, Philadelphia.

Davis M. BERLINGHOF has been promoted
to manager of the Natchez, Mississippi of-
fice of Cargill, Incorporated, which is the
nation’s largest grain company. In_ his
new position, he will coordinate and take
charge of all grain merchandising activities
for his company in the Natchez area, in-
cluding northern and central Louisiana
and central and southern Mississippi. He
was formerly in the Baton Rouge, Louis-
iana, office. David’s address is: 544 Rat-
cliff Place, Natchez.

O. BERTRAND RAMSAY recieved his doctor-
ate in chemistry from the the University
of Pennsylvania in February, 1960. He is
presently engaged in post-doctoral  re-
search at Georgia Tech. After July, he
will be at McDonogh School, Maryland.

56 THE ReEv. AuGusTUS Moopy BurRT

was ordained to the priesthood April 2,
1960, by the bishop of the Episcopal Di-
ocese of North Carolina. He has been serv-
ing as minister in charge of the Christ
Episcopal church, Walnut Cove, and the
Church of the Messiah, Mayodan, both
in North Carolina.

DONNE LYON COLTON is sales representa-
tive for Minnesota Mining and Manu-
facturing Company, and lives at 214 South
10znd Avenue, East, Tulsa 28, Oklahoma.

WILLIAM C. NORMAN, Jr. is taking a sec-
ond and final year of graduate work at
Wharton School of Finance, University
of Pennsylvania. This follows some ac-
tive duty in the army, a year of graduate
work at Harvard, and year or so of bank-
ing experience in Memphis and Dallas.
Bill is yet a bachelor.

27

 

57 ALEX B. PLATT is presently liv-

ing in New York City working parttime
at the Y.M.C.A. Vocational Service Cen-
ter as a Vocational Counselor and work-
ing half time at Columbia University on a
Ph.D. in Psychology. Alex obtained his
masters degree at Columbia in June, 1958.
He is engaged to be married in June.

JAMES STANMORE D. LANGFORD is in his
second year of law school at Southern
Methodist University in Dallas, ‘Texas. He
is still a bachelor.

JoHN R. ALForD is now a lieutenant in
the Judge Advocate General’s corps. He
will be stationed in Frankfurt, Germany
for the next two and one-half years.

58 Fred LEE HEINA is a first lieuten-

ant at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina,
and is serving as captain of a group of
the Second Reconnaissance’ Battalation
rifle team. He and his wife, Robin, are
the parents of a son, Fred Lee, Jr., born

August 4, 1959.

ROBERT F. BANkKs, a student at the Lon-
don School of Economics in England, was
recently photographed speaking with
Queen Mother Elizabeth, as she visited the
school. The picture appeared via Asso-
ciated Press Radiophoto in many Ameri-
can newspapers.

59 R. B. WILKERSON, JR., after leav-

ing Washington and Lee, attended college
one year at Vanderbilt University in
Nashville, ‘Tennessee. Rusty then entered
the United States Military Academy at
West Point where he is now a _ second
classman (junior) and plans to graduate in
June, 1961.

THoMAS M. SCHMIDT is attending the Uni-
versity of Houston, Houston, ‘Texas.

M. M. WaAbswortTH has qualified as a par-
achutist at the airborne course, The In-
fantry School, Fort Benning, Georgia. He
also received training in the duties of a
jumpmaster. He entered the Army last
September, and is a second lieutenant.

Completing the nine-week officer basic
course at the Transportation School, Fort
Eustis, Virginia are Second Lieutenants
JosEpH S. CAMBRIA, ANTHONY J. FRANK,
DONALD W. SIGMUND, and JosEPH S. LEwis,
IV.

J. Nem BENNEY, JR. was commissioned an
ensign in the United States Navy Reserve
on February 5, 1960, in ceremonies at the
Navy Officers Candidate School, Newport,
Rhode Island.

SECOND LIEUTENANT R. R. KANE has com-
pleted a ten-week military police officer
basic course at the Provost Marshal Gen-
eral’s School, Fort Gordon, Georgia.

28

 

1954

JERRY GLOVER SouTH and Marilyn Page
were married on January 30, 1960, in
Carmel-by-the-Sea, California.

1955

ROBERT H. MANN, JR. was married to Mary
Morehouse on September 12, 1959. They
are living at 7514 Terrace, Kansas City,
Missouri.

1956

RICHARD MARVIN JOHNSTON and Anne
Stieglitz, Hollins, 60, were married April
9g, 1960 in the Reformed Church, Bronx-
ville, New York. They are making their
home in Pittsburgh, where he is with
the Mellon National Bank and ‘Trust
Company.

1958

Harry Moses and Judith Anne Connor of
West Hartford, Connecticut, were mar-
ried on January 9, 1960. They now reside
at 117 E. 77th St., New York, N. Y. Harry
is associated with WOK-Radio and TV.

LEwis Pope WEXLER was married to Mar-
tha Patton, June 20, 1969. He isy-gedit
manager of Goodyear Tire and Raibber
Company, Nashville, ‘Tennessee. ‘Their
home address is: Hillsboro Apartments,
Apt. M-3, Nashville, Tennessee.

1960

WALLIS LESTER WALKER, JR. and Carroll
E. Haynie were married February 5, 1960.
“Jack” is a student at Florida State and
working part time with Wallis L. Walker,
CPA, Brinkley Building, ‘Tallahassee,
Florida.

 

1937

Mr. and Mrs. KENT Forster are the par-
ents of a second son, Peter Kent, born
February 6, 1960. ‘They have two daugh-
ters as well. Kent, who is professor of
European History at Pennsylvania State
University, was given the President’s
Award for Superior Teaching in 1959, in-
cluding a plaque and a check for one
thousand dollars.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. Rosert A. DEMENTI are the
parents of a son, Anthony Robert, born
January 16, 1960. Address: 1503 West
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM LEE SHANNON are
the parents of a daughter, Mary Helen,
born November 21, 1959. This makes five
girls now, and one future General.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. Jesse BENTON, JR. are the
parents of a son, Jesse Wilson, III, born
February 2, 1960.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD ROCKWELL are the
parents of a son, Richard Dow, born No-
vember 12, 1959. The Rockwells reside
in West Hartford, Connecticut.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. RopNEy M. Cook are the
parents of a daughter, Laura Hampton,
born January 11, 1960.

Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT N. HAMRIC, JR. are
the parents of their fifth son, William
Earl, born March 2, 1960. Herb and Jean
live at 512 Jackson Avenue, Lexington,
Virginia.

1948

Mr. and Mrs. HENRY J. FORESMAN are the
parents of a third son, Robert Holmes,
born March 20, 1960. Pop is an attorney in
Lexington and Buena Vista.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs D. FARRAR are the
parents of a daughter, Anne Lovell, born
September 29, 1959. ‘They also have two
sons, Jimmy and Scotty.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. FRENCH are the
parents of a son, John, Jr., born Novem-
ber 24, 1959. They also have two daugh-
ters.

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT VAN BuREN are the
parents of a son, Robert, Jr., born in July,
1959. Bob and Ann have two daughters,
Marcia, 5, and Cindy, 4.

Mr. and Mrs. LEE F. Roberts are the par-
ents of a daughter, Joyce Irene, born De-
cember 4, 1959. The score is now three
girls and one boy.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. ByrRoN AMBLER SASSCER are
the parents of a daughter, Lucy St. Clair,
born November 28, 1959.

Mr. and Mrs. PETER EDWARD FORKGEN are
the parents of a daughter, Katherine, born

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

September 19, 1959. Address: care of Mene
Grande Oil Company, Apartado 709, Car-
acas, Venezuela.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. A. PARKER NEFF are the
parents of a son, Parker, Jr., born De-
cember 17, 1959. They now have two
daughters and a son. Parker is a partner
in the firm of Stephenson and Cooke in
Norfolk, Virginia.

1954

Mr. and Mrs. Ropert O. GLASIER are the
parents of a son, Lawrence Cedric, born
December 19, 1959, in  Villers-Semeuse,
France. Bob is employed by Graham Park-
er, Industrial and Technical Consultants,
on its European staff. Lawrence Cedric is
their second son.

1955

THE Rev. and Mrs. F. Monrtacu P.
Pearse, III, are the parents of a daugh-
ter, Elizabeth Crater, born February 23,
1960. Address: 3484 Whitfield Avenue,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

Mr. and Mrs. SIpNEY MILLs ROGERS, Te are
the parents of a daughter, their second
child, Nancy Gwendolyn, born January
15, 1960.

1957

Mr. and Mrs. BELDEN BUTTERFIELD are
the parents of a daughter, Barbara Mar-
guerite, born March 18, 1960. Address:
M. C. 220, Nanticoke Acres, Seaford, Del-
aware.

emolian

 

1897

HERBERT SCRAGGS LARRICK, a practicing at-
torney for sixty-one years in Winchester,
Virginia, died on March 16, 1960. He was
president of the Commercial and Sav-
ings Bank, which he helped organize,
for forty-three years. He was a charter
member of the Winchester Lions Club,
and its first president. The group hon-
ored him last year for his 35 years of
faithful service.

1908

ARTHUR LEE STEVENS died on February 29,
1960. His home was in Shreveport, Louis-
lana.

Jor: J. D. Ropcers died March 22, 1960,
after a lengthy illness. He was engaged in
the practice of law for many years, in Tus-

SPRING 1960

kegee, Alabama, until his health caused
his retirement. He was a member of the
Methodist church.

1909

JupGE DANIEL KENNARD SADLER, who had
served on the New Mexico Supreme Court
longer than any other man, died April 2,
1960. He had retired last year from the
high court, after twenty-eight years of
service.

STAFFORD CALDWELL, Miami political fig-
ure, collapsed of a heart attack April 20,
1960 while addressing a large gathering of
the Masonic Grand lodge at  Jackson-
ville, Florida. Practicing in Miami and
Jacksonville, the 72-year-old attorney
twice ran for governor of Florida. He serv-
ed as general counsel for the Florida East
Coast Railway.

1910

MARSHALL H. CONNER died March 10, 1960.
He was a partner with his brother in
the building and contracting firm, Con-
ner Brothers, in ‘Tuskegee, Alabama, un-
til his retirement. He was a former city
councilman and a former member of the
City Board of Education. He was a mem-
ber of the board of deacons of the First
Baptist church in Tuskegee.

1914

Lewis TALMAGE Davis died September 14,
1959. His home was in Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia.

FRANK DEANE CoE died January 28, 1960,
after an extended illness. He operated
Thorn Hill Dairy for many years in Lex-
ington, and also the Thorn Hill Farm.

1915

Dr. ATwood M. WasuH, chairman of the
department of oral surgery and anesthesia
at the Medical College of Virginia, died
February 27, 1960. He had been a mem-
ber of the MCV faculty since 1919, and
chairman of the department since it was
formed more than 25 years ago. He also
had a private practice in oral surgery. He
was a past president of the Virginia State
Dental Association and the Richmond
Dental Society. He was a member of the
board of deacons of Second Baptist church,
Richmond.

1916

Emory GomBER Nusz died January 27,
1960, at his home near Frederick, Mary-
land. He had retired in 1949 from busi-
ness. He served as a director of the Build-
ing and Loan Association of the Freder-
ick County National Bank.

1920

WILLIS MEAD EVERETT, JR. died April 4,
1960, after a long illness. An Atlanta at-
torney, he gained international fame for

his part in the Nurenberg war criminal
trials, as defense lawyer for German sol-
diers involved in the Malmedy massacre.
During World War II, he was a colonel in
Army intelligence and served as an active
Army Reservist for twenty-seven years. Mr.
Everett was a trustee of Clark College and
Gammon Theological Seminary.

1921

SAMUEL Davis DUNN died February 16,
1960. His home was in Baltimore, Mary-
land, but he was buried in Fredericks-
burg, Virginia.

1925

Dr. JoHN W. McKee ELpon died in Jan-
uary, 1960. His home and _ his practice
were in Salisbury, North Carolina.

1926

BENJAMIN Levy of Hampton, Virginia,
died on February 26, 1960, at the Na-
tional Home of the Benevolent and Pro-
tective Order of Elks in Bedford, Vir-
ginia. He had been a resident of the
Elks Home since May 3, 1957.

JoHN LAucHLEN McDonatp died Febru-
ary 23, 1960. He was a past president of
the Florida State Pharmaceutical Asso-
ciation, a member of its executive com-
mittee, and a member of the board of di-
rectors of the YMCA at St. Augustine. He
owned a drug store in St. Augustine, and
was a trustee of Memorial Presbyterian
church there.

1928

CLark A. BUCHNER, JR. died on January
18, 1960, following major surgery in Lit-
tle Rock, Arkansas. Survivors include his
widow, and a son, Clark, III, a senior
at the University of Arkansas.

1935

Dr. ROBERT HENRY CLEVELAND died De-
cember 28, 1959. He made his home in
Jacksonville, Florida.

1942

CoLIN ‘ToLtmiz Baxter died on February
29, 1960. His home was East Northport,
New York.

1948

STEVENSON L. Epwarps died April 3, 1960,
at his home in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich-
igan. He was a manufacturer’s represen-
tative for Ohio Rubber Company.

1958

WILLIAM WILLIS LyNn, III, a student at
University of ‘Tennessee, was killed April
16, 1960, in an automobile accident near
Lexington while riding with a Wash-
ington and Lee student. He was the son
of W. W. Lynn, Jr., ’23, of Lynchburg,
Virginia.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold Trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $28.00 f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

