MARCH, 1954

tetris
s
He
33h
3!

tt
EEE

ae
rt
$3 seer
3 esseeeeataty
S353
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
cagwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $18.00 per set
F, 0. B. Lexington, Virginia

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian—Waldo G. Miles, ’34, Attorney,
Bristol, Virginia

Augusta — Rockingham — Ed Moore, ,’25
Waynesboro, Virginia

Atlanta—Thomas E. Schneider, ’24, Box 7128,
Station C

Baltimore—C. William Pacy, ’50, 202 EH. Uni-
versity Parkway

Birmingham—Clifford B. Beasley, Jr., ’46,
210-C Foxhall Road

Chae W. Va.—W.-T. Brotherton, ’47, Box

Chattanooga—Charles L. Claunch, ’27, 1223 Vol-
unteer Building

Chicago—W. C. Olendorf, ’46, 1059 Fairoaks,
Deerfield, Illinois

Cincinnati—Robert B. Shreve, ’40, 576 Howell
Avenue

Charlotte—Jack Crist, Jr., ’45, Box 1045

Cleveland—Paul L. Holden, ’38, Lincoln Elec-
tric Co.

Danville, Virginia—E. Ballou Bagbey, ’29, First
National Bank

Florida West Coast—W. E. Tucker, ’48, Sto-
vall Professional Building, Tampa

Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Build-
ing, Miami, Florida
Houston—Ben Ditto, °43, Norton-Ditto Co.

Jacksonville—David W. Foerster, ’51, Atlantic
National Bank Building

Louisville—Ernest Woodward, ’40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—Elliott Schewel, ’45, 1201 Main
Street

Mid-South—S. L. Kopald, ’48, The Humko Co.,
Memphis, Tennessee

New York—Stuard Wurzburger, ’28, 10 Hast
40th Street

New Orleans—William B. Wisdom, ’21, Ameri-
can Bank Building

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran,
718, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, ’35, National Bank
of Commerce Building

Northwest Louisiana—T. Haller Jackson, Jr.,
"48, Commercial Building, Shreveport

Peninsula—Thomas P. Duncan, ’24, 601 River-
side Drive, Warwick, Virginia

Philadelphia—Allen Snyder, °41, 2114 Benezet
Road, Abington, Pennsylvania.

Piedmont — Stacey Gifford, °’24, Box 2875,
Greensboro, North Carolina

Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., ’41, 401
Plaza Building

Richmond—Edward S. Boze, Jr. ’36, Hopper
Paper Company

Roanoke—J. D. Hobbie, III, ’37, 9 West Church
Avenue

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., 43, 407-09
South Texas Building

St. Louis—John L. Patterson, ’21, 4144 Lindell
Boulevard

Tri-State—H. Preston Henshaw, ’39, Hunting-
ton, West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., 38,
525 Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Arthur C. Smith, ’41, 1813
You Street, North West

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, 31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published quarterly by
The Washington and Lee University Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office

at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press

of Washington and Lee University

 

Editofees 4 oe oe Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Class Notes: Editors. 0 6 os. cas Mary BARCLAY
Vol. XXIX MARCH, 1954 No. 2

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President..... WitiiAmM L. WEBsTER, 1912
Vice-President. ...Wyatr C. Hepricxk, 1910
Secretary...... Harry K. (Cy) Younec, 1917

Treasurer... EMMETT W. POINDEXTER, 1920 —

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

PauL C. Burorp, 1913
Hucu J. Bonino, 1936
EMMETT W. POINDEXTER, 1920
WILLIAM L. WEBsTER, 1912
J. STEWART Buxton, 1936
Wyatt C. Hepricx, 1910
JOHN F. HENDON, 1924
H. L. SuHury, 1924

THE COVER

This scene “under the Big Tent’ should bring back
fond memories to hundreds of alumni. The date: June
18, 1949. Lhe occasion: ‘The Bicentennial Reunion.

By popular demand there will be a repeat perform-
ance this year. All classes will be back for another big
Reunion on June 10, 11, and 12. Now is the time for all
Washington and Lee men to “fall in line” and make
plans to come back for more in’54!

   
  

MARSHALL W. FISHWICK

O PRICE can be put on the things we cherish most
N at Washington and Lee. It dosen’t make sense
to argue the worth of tradition, the honor system,
the imprint of great men who have gone before us,
natural beauty, comradeship—these things are price-
less. So are our buildings, though they are made of
brick and stone and wood, like thousands of others.
To us they are more than structures; they are sym-
bols of our heritage, our aspiration, our belief in west-
ern civilization. Our Greek Revival facade is part of
our cultural, as well as our geographical landscape.

The dominant building of the facade—the one on
which the others are modeled—is Washington Hall.
Who designed and built it? When was it begun, and
how much did it cost? Why is it mentioned so fre-
quently in American architectural histories?

To answer these questions we must go back more
than a century and a half, to the then-new frontier
town of Lexington. In 1802 a young man named
John Jordan came into the area with his wite. ‘They
were from ‘Tidewater Virginia, both from prominent
families. Samuel Jordan had been wrecked off the
coast of the “vexed Bermudas” in 1608, an incident
which Shakespeare made use of in The Tempest. John
Jordan’s father made cannon balls for the Americans
during the Revolutionary War. We are not certain
as to why the young couple came to Rockbridge
County. One story holds that it was to work on “Mul-
berry Hill,’ which Samuel Reid constructed about
1800, and which served for a number of years as
the Delta Upsilon fraternity house.

By 1808 we find Jordan hard at work as a con-
tractor and architect. In that year he did the brick
work for the Ann Smith Academy, one of the first
girls’ schools in the South. Among the people who con-
tributed to the building was ‘Thomas Jefferson, whom
Jordan met during his military service in the War
of 1812, and whose architectural ideas shaped those
of Jordan. Jordan also embarked upon the production
of pig iron, canal building, road construction, and
grist milling in his varied and successful career.

As an architect-builder John Jordan was undoubt-

JOHN JORDAN’S
MASTERPIECE

Professor of American Studies

edly a “natural.” His sense of proportion was innate,
and he used it to good advantage. ‘This may be seen
in the work of this craftsman and contractor who was
to produce the famous central building at Washing-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ton College. There were few professional architects
in the whole country when John Jordan began his
career of building, and those were employed almost
exclusively in the erection of large public buildings.
In frontier districts such as Rockbridge County, the
professional architect did not exist. Consequently,
much was left to the architect-builder. A building
turned out to be a worthy or unworthy creation ac-
cording to the originality and taste of the man who
built it.

In 1882, Jordon began work on his masterpiece,
Washington Hall, which is still the central building on
the Washington and Lee campus. ‘Taking the contract
with Samuel Darst, and making his bricks right on
the place, Jordan designed and executed a structure
the simplicity, strength, and dignity of which have
won it wide praise as one of America’s handsomest
academic buildings.

‘The circumstances behind its erection are worth
recounting briefly. Begun as Augusta Academy in
1749, but renamed Washington Academy when Wash-
ington presented the school with canal stock, the in-
stitution was leveled by a fire in 1802. On February 1,
1803, a committee was formed “to receive any pro-
posals from the inhabitants of Lexington and its vi-
cinity as to the future site of Washington Academy
and to obtain by such means as they think the most
approved plans for the buildings to be erected.”

By the end of 1804, funds were acquired to build
two small academic buildings (known as Union Hall
and Graham Hall) and a Steward’s House. They had
a total of fifteen rooms and were used as dormitories
and class rooms until 1824. Meanwhile money was
acquired for the purpose of erecting a central build-
ing. On March 10, 1821, the Board announced ‘That
it 1s NOW necessary to erect another building on the
college lot, and that Robert White, John Robinson,
Samuel McDowell Reid and James McDowell be a
committee to report for the buildings and ascertain
what it can be erected for.’’*

Eventually the committee was ready to receive
bids on a suitable building, and the sketch and bid
($9,000) of John Jordan was awarded the contract.
Although the amount on hand which could be applied
to the building as of July 31, 1822, was less than $6,500,
the Board decided to go ahead. It was a wise move.

By the spring of 1824 Jordan had finished the
building, and a proper ceremony was in order. Ac-
curate historical descriptions of the event are hard
to come by, since it has taken on a legendary quality
in Rockbridge annals. It is said that John Robinson,
famous for his Irish whiskey, donated a 4o-gallon bar-
rel of 15-year old brew (‘‘the finest ever seen in Rock-

*Microfilm number 1, Official University Archives, Wash-
ington and Lee University. The other material for this sec-
tion was obtained in the Archives and the Treasurer’s Vault.

MARCH 1954

 

While Old George watched—basins, buckets
and dippers, some more handy than nice

bridge County’) for festivities. “The public was in-
vited and it came.

“Jocky’”? Robinson himself tapped the barrel, tra-
dition says, and “for a time, courtesy in the order
of approach was observed.” ‘The temptation was too
great, however. Soon the crowd was attacking the
barrel with “tin cups, pitchers, basins, buckets, and
a variety of dippers, some of them more handy than
nice.” A visitor present noted dourly that they “soon
gave a glorious exhibition of what free whiskey can
do for the noble creature made in the image of God.”
He left when “they were rolling on the ground like
swine.” Finally two gentlemen were forced to upset
the barrel and empty the remainder on the ground.
“Still,” says one account, “enough had been con-
sumed to make College Hill look lke a battle-field
after a hard fight.”

Such temporary revelry did not phase the beauty
or achievement of Washington Hall, a_ three-story
building measuring 50 by 100 feet. Recitation rooms
were on the first floor, with the science department in
the west corner. ‘(The Chapel was on the second floor,
and the two literary societies (Washington and Gra-
ham) on the third. Henry Ruffner, college president
from 1836 to 1848, pointed up the Jeffersonian quality
of the structure when he later called it “a Maison
Quarre, like the State Capitol, but without a high
basement.” Like Jefferson’s famous building in Rich-
mond, this was a “momument historique.”

In the generation following, the college officials
decided to construct other buildings on Jordan’s pat-

3

tern and proportions, so as to give a
unity to the whole campus. ‘The re-
sult has been so well described by
America’s leading architectural his-
torian of the Greek Revival period
that it seems wise to let him des-
cribe this expansion. ‘Talbot Ham-
lin has this to say about the Wash-
ington and Lee University:

Besides the houses, a_ few
churches, the state capitols, and
the courthouses, it is the colleges
which chiefly distinguish the
Greek Revival in the: South -..
One of the most impressive of
these early Southern Colleges is
the main group of Washington
and Lee University at Lexington,
Virginia. Here, a simple existing
building was made the central
motif in a long and imposing
composition by adding to it con-
necting wings with large end
buildings. The three-storied cen-

tral building is pedimented, with
a portico of six slim Doric col-
umns... The simple lines bat-
tered base, and stern lines are full
of Greek simplicity. No more
impressive expression of the
ideals of the time could be imag-
ined than this classical group,
its pediment and orders seen
through embowering trees, over
swelling American lawns.

In 1936 Washington Hall was
completely renovated, fireproofed,
and modernized. While the exter-
ior was little changed, the interior
was so completely done that almost
nothing (with the exception of
small items like the stair rail) was
left. During the work original plans
were discovered showing just what
the second-floor chapel had looked
like, and this was restored as Wash-
ington Chapel.

Generations of students have
fond memories of Washington
Hall, and the instruction they re-
ceived there. Many remember for
example, the mathematics classes of
Professor “Liv” Smith, who dem-
onstrated his displeasure by throw-
ing chalk at the “G. I. can” that
sat for years in the second floor
hallway. For a long time students
actually lived in Washington Hall,
but there are no alumni living
whose memories go back to this
period.

And so John Jordan’s masterpiece
stands today, with its white and red
beauty atop a green hill. It is still
the central building of the Univer-
sity, but it is more than a building.
It is a landmark, a symbol of what
we have been, and a heritage on
which we thrive.

John Jordan’s masterpiece, a red
and white symbol atop a green hill

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

THE ATHLETIC STORY

or breathes there an alumnus with soul so dead

ALMAND R. COLEMAN, ’26

Professor of Accounting and Chairman, Athletic Committee

REATHES there an alumnus with
B soul so dead who, glancing at
Sunday’s paper, never to himself has
said: “What are we doing playing
Maryland?”

“Why don’t we stick to teams in
our own class?....Why don’t we
play unsubsidized football, or give
it up?....Why don’t we use the
money to raise professors’ salaries?
....Why can’t we win more
games?”

An aid to finding some of the
answers lies, we hope, in this review
of Washington and Lee’s athletic
story.

Let’s begin with the poll of alum-
ni taken by the Board of Trustees
when we resumed our intercolle-
giate athletic program shortly after
World War II. That poll indicated
that most of our alumni desired us
“to maintain competition with our
‘traditional rivals’ and to extend
aid to those students who demon-
strate good athletic ability and
stand in need of such aid.”

Wuat Is THE Po.Licy?

In the light of this poll, the
Board of ‘Trustees in 1946 set the
five-point policy, as shown in the
accompanying box.

‘The Board has its own committee
on athletics, headed until recently
by Dr. Morrison Hutcheson, ’og, of
Richmond, and this committee, as
well as the entire Board, has made
the school’s athletic policy a matter
for continuous review.

The University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics—five facul-
ty members, two alumni members,
and two student members—is as-
signed responsibility for execution

MARCH 1954

of the Board’s policy and for gen-
eral supervision of intercollegiate
athletics.

Let’s review the execution of the
Board’s policy by taking up in order
each of its five points.

1. Grants-in-aid made openly and
under University control. For the
last several years the University has
made available fifty tuition grants-
in-aid. Most of these are for mem-
bers of the football squad, but this
year one varsity grant and several
freshman grants have gone to bas-
ketball.

In addition to tuition, most of
the football recipients receive grants
for board, room, and books amount-
ing to about $600. These grants are
financed in part by alumni contri-
butions to the Generals Fund
(which is under University aus-
pices), and in part by football gate
receipts.

2. Assimilation of holders of

grants. Holders of grants may elect
whatever courses the catalogue per-
mits them to take. ‘Thus they take
their share of lab and ROTC
courses, despite the effect upon at-
tendance at football practice ses-
sions. There are, moreover, no spe-
cial courses for athletes at Washing-
ton and Lee. (Or, as Dean Clayton
Williams, ’12, who served until re-
cently as Faculty Chairman, once
put it when we were interviewing
former Coach George Barclay:
“There aren't many soft spots in
our curriculum !’’)

Membership in fraternities on
the part of grant holders is perhaps
somewhat less, proportionately,
than for the student body as a
whole. No restrictions are imposed
against fraternity membership or
participation in other student activ-
ities. ‘he only factors which may
limit grant holders are those of per-

(Continued on next page)

 

versity control

student body

controlled by the Faculty

 

Athletic Policy as Set by the Board of Trustees

1. A recognition that subsidized football is required if we are to
play our neighbors, and accordingly that grants-in-aid to foot-
ball squad members are to be made openly and under Uni-

2. Holders of grants-in-aid are to be fully assimilated into our
3. Admissions standards and academic eligibility are to be con-
4. Caliber of team is to be such as to permit reasonable compe-

tition with our natural rivals

5. Financing is to be contributed by the University to a limited
extent only, exclusive of tuition grants

 

 

 

 

sons.

while

 

Our Football Men Do Graduate

A. Since we resumed football after World War II, foot-
ball monograms have been awarded to..............00..

Of this number, there are still in school..............

C. So the remainder of...............
have either graduated or left school for other rea-

D. Of these 70 men no longer in school... ee. 10
left for non-academic reasons (Army, marriage, etc.)
AMOS cae eens. eye alon....
left after one or two years via the Automatic Rule,

failed to get their degrees in their senior year.

E. ‘The important fact is that of the 70 men who have
received monograms since 1946 (and who are no
longer in school)................06.
have received their degrees.

eee 50

102 men
32 men

70 men

 

 

sonal finances and the time required
for football.

3. Admission standards and aca-
demic eligibility. Admissions are
under the administration of the
Director of Admissions. All candi-
dates, prospective football squad
members as well as others, must take
the College Board Aptitude Test
as a prerequisite for admission.
(Washington and Lee, we under-
stand, is the only men’s school in
the South which has thus far re-
quired the College Board).

As for academic eligibility, our
faculty has imposed stiffer stand-
ards than the Southern Conference
(of which we are a member). Our
Automatic Rule, moreover, has as
one of its provisions the require-
ment that a student must earn suf-
ficient quality credits each year to
assure his ‘progress towards a de-
gree.” (Many critics of modern col-
lege football have emphasized that
requiring a participant to “progress
towards a degree” would remove
many of the evils in the conduct of
the sport). Unless a student at
Washington and Lee meets the fac-
ulty requirements for progressing
towards a degree, he ceases to be a
member of the student body.

6

The best evidence of “progress
towards a degree”’ is the ultimate re-
ceiving of a degree. ‘The accom-
panying box testifies to the remark-
able record our football men have
made in this respect.

4. Caliber of team sufficient to
permit reasonable competition with
natural rivals. ‘To determine if we
have fielded teams reasonably com-
petitive with our natural rivals re-
quires a determination of just who
are our “natural rivals.’ And this
is not an easy question to answer.

We may include first of all those
neighboring institutions, indepen-
dent like ourselves, who are mem-
bers of the Southern Conference—
Davidson, Furman, George Wash-
ington, and Richmond. And let’s
add for tradition’s sake—Virginia,
V.P.1., West Virginia, and William
and Mary.

‘The record shows that against
our natural and traditional rivals
we have held our own.

Our overall record, however, is
not so good, for we have scheduled
and consistently lost to teams like
Maryland, ‘Tennessee, et als. So the
question is asked: Why do we sched-
ule teams like these? ‘To which the
answer is: We do so to help finance

our program to keep the drain
upon University funds “‘to a limited
extent only.’ We have, it should
be emphasized, no aspirations for
national football honors.

5. University’s financial contribu-
tion to be limited. And thus we
come to financial considerations,
which together with the matter of
geographical location, make Wash-
ington and Lee’s athletic problem
so trying.

In the accompanying box we
show the cash receipts and disburse-
ments of our intercollegiate athletic
programs over the last three years.
We have been able to budget ex-
penditures almost “on the nose.”
‘The real problem is to find the re-
ceipts to finance the expenditures.

As for the receipts, it is clear
that the only solid item of revenue
is the $19,000 from student fees. For
the balance we must trust to alumni
contributions to the Generals Fund,
and to football gate receipts.

PRESENT OPERATING CONDITIONS

Our present program must op-
erate under the following condi-
tions: (1) scheduling each year, as
available, several teams out of our
class, and away from home, in or-
der to finance the program, (2)
scheduling the remaining games
with our natural and _ traditional
rivals on a modified home-and-
home arrangement, with the result
that we are limited to an average of
three home games a year, and (3)
committing ourselves to a program
under which a failure to realize the
gate receipts and Generals Fund
contributions could cause us to
show a sizeable deficit.

On the other hand, our -present
program has enabled us to compete
in football on fairly even terms with
our natural and traditional rivals,
and to permit attendance at Wash-
ington and Lee by fifty men who
would not otherwise do so.

PossIBLE ALTERNATIVES

From time to time the Board of
Trustees has given consideration to

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

various alternative approaches to
the problem. In a thorough review
last year of our whole intercollegi-
ate program, and in particular foot-
ball, the Athletic Committee of the
Board considered the following al-
ternatives:

1. Schedule only teams in our
class (including our natural and tra-
ditional rivals). Under existing con-
ditions, this alternative can be dis-
posed of on the basis of the finan-
cial factor alone. Since we don’t
decrease expenditures by doing so,
and since we do appreciably de-
decrease gate receipts, where is the
money coming from? Certainly the
adoption of this proposal would
ease the burdens of the athletic
staff, but financial considerations
rule it out.

2. Form in this area an indepen-
dent league (such as the New Eng-
land one of Amherst, Bowdoin, et
als.), and play unsubsidized football
among ourselves. First of all, an im-
portant difference should be noted
between the New England set-up
and our own. The New England
league is composed of independent
colleges of similar character and
size, located within short distances
of each other. For the formation
of a similar league in this area,
there are few independent schools
of similar character and size. Rath-
er our area happens to be one dom-
inated by state-supported schools.
(And the intensity of the inter-state
and intra-state rivalries among these
institutions has set the area stand-
ards for intercollegiate competi-
tion.) ‘Thus, though the proposal
for an independent league is an ap-
pealing one, it does not appear to
be feasible for us under existing
conditions.

3. Give up intercollegiate foot-
ball. ‘This alternative was a distinct
possibility a year ago before the
rules affecting “platoon” football
were changed. In view of conditions
over which we have no control, giv-
ing up football will continue to be
an alternative which we must face
up to honestly. For the issue seems

MARCH 1954

to be drawn for us between conduct-
ing football on the present basis or
giving it up entirely. Among the
conditions outside of our control
which constitute a threat to our
continuance of intercollegiate foot-
ball may be listed:

a. The action of the Southern
Conference last December in voting
down the proposals (1) for permit-

ting Freshmen to play on varsity

teams and (2) for limiting the num-
ber of grants-in-aid to athletes. (Let
us point out that for schools of our
size, and for football as it is conduct-
ed in this area, the Freshman Rule
acts as a football emphasis measure
rather than otherwise.)

b. The possible future effects of
television upon our football gate re-
ceipts.

c. The prospect of increasing dif-
ficulty in competing on a resonably
competitive basis with the Univer-
sity of Virginia, now that it has be-

come a member ot the Atlantic
Coast Conference.

Although these conditions consti-
tute a threat, the abolition of in-
tercollegiate football is a possibility
which we do not relish. All things
considered, it remains a measure of
last resort.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

First of all, the crux of our prob-
lem is this: For the conduct of a
program of intercollegiate athletics,
and in particular intercollegiate
football, Washington and Lee ts not
well situated geographically or fi-
nancially.

Secondly, football as played in
this area has become what may be
termed a “spectacle sport.” Desig-
nating it as such need not condemn
it, but it is well to clear the air to
see things as they are. Intercollegi-
ate football (and to a certain extent,

(Concluded on page 15)

 

 

The Cost of Intercollegiate Athletics
Actual for 1951-52 & 1952-53, Budget for 1953-54
P9942 IO 4099 195354
Receipts Actual Actual Budgeted
Feotball gate receipts—net of traveling
and game expemses..............24. $49,266 $42,579 $48,000
Generals Fund—net of expenses......... 19,237 17,026 18,000
Sttident: EES ei ee ee ee. ees 19,140 18,619 19,000
University cash contribution............ 3,388 5,000
Football programs, concessions, etc..... 2,779 2,010 1,000
Total Receipts................ $90,422 $83,622 $91,000
Disbursements
Grants-in-aid for board, room, books.... $30,803 $26,142 $2'7,000
SLATE SA lAEIOS fog eee a FPR Vee. 33,601 37,248 40,000
Football equipment, pre-season training,
scouting, MOVIES, etC...........0.000. 14,574 15,023 15,000
Equipment, game expenses, etc. of other
sports (net of gate receipts).......... 8,315 9,039 9,000
Total Disbursements (excluding
EUIHON) 2s Pee ees $87,293 $87,452 $91,000
Difference between receipts & disburse-
Wiese Sa Se ee $ 3,129 ($3,830)
Portion used for tuition grants...... 1,318
Change in cash balance during year....  $ 1,811 ($3,830)
MEMO—University ‘Tuition Grants (tul-
tion increased $100 in 1952-53)...... $20,936 $27,781 $29,000

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

James ALVIN PHILPOTT, °47, 1S
Lexington, North Carolina’s Young
Man of the Year. He was presented
with a bronze plaque at a special
“bosses’ night’ program of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce in
January.

In Lexington, Philpott was chair-
man of the local Red Cross chapter,
headed its bloodmobile program,
and also directed the annual Boy
Scout fund drive for the district.
He has been active in the Chamber
of Commerce, having served as
chairman of the civic committee

8

and as a member of the board
of directors, and in the Kiwanis
Club where, after serving as
treasurer and vice-president, he
is now president. The First
Baptist Church claims a share
of his time, too, as a deacon and
as superintendent of the young
people’s department. All of
these things he has done while
effectively handling his position

 

Citations for distinguished service to their communities during 1953 went to F. PEN-
DLETON GAINES, JR. (above), J. ALVIN PHILPoTT (left) and CARTER R. ALLEN (below).

   

 

as vice-president of the United Fur-
niture Corporation, manufacturers
of bedroom furniture, in Lexington.

CARTER R. ALLEN, LL.B. ’48, has
received the first Distinguished Ser-
vice Award from the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce of Waynesboro,
Virginia, where he has been active
in local and state civic organiza-
tions since 1948. In addition to his
law practice and activities asso-
ciated with the state and county bar
associations, he has served as presi-
dent of both the Waynesboro
YMCA and the Lions Club, and is
currently a member of the Waynes-
boro Library Board. He is also a
past-president of the Waynesboro
Chamber of Commerce and a mem-
ber of the local Community Chest.

Prior to receiving his law degree
at Washington and Lee, Allen
earned his bachelor of arts degree
from Marshall College, which his
father headed for many years. He
is presently serving as substitute
civil police court justice and juven-
ile and domestic relations court
judge.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

FRANCIS PENDELTON GAINES, JR.,
39, president of Wofford College
and son of Washington and Lee’s
President, has been accorded the
dual honor of being named Young
Man of the Year for his home town
of Spartanburg and for the entire
State of South Carolina. Both are
Junior Chamber of Commerce se-
lections and are made annually on
the basis of outstanding contribu-
tions to profession or business and
to the community. Presentation of
the state award was made in
Charleston in early February at the
Junior Chamber’s state convention.

“Since coming to Wofford,” the
citation read, “Dr. Gaines has im-
proved the century-old college’s
physical plant, set forth a theory of
values designed to produce out-
standing men of tomorrow and, ul-
timately, to improve the educa-
tional standards of South Carolina.
He has placed the college on a
sound, business-like basis and has
wielded a powerful influence in the
leveling off of a sound athletic pro-
gram and promotion of extra-curri-
cular activities to the benefit of the
community.”

‘The citation went on to outline
his contributions to Spartanburg,
among them an evening adult edu-
cation program, a planetarium on
the Wofford campus, which is the
first in South Carolina, and bring-
ing to Wofford and Spartanburg, in
observance of the centennial an-
niversary of the college, many prom-
inent lecturers and numerous state,
regional, and national conventions.
Dr. Gaines has spearheaded a move-
ment for educational television in
Spartanburg and the Piedmont,
and was influential in obtaining
from the United States Post Office
Department a Wofford cancellation
slogan for use on all mail in the
Spartanburg office.

Dr. Gaines became president of
Woftord College on August 1, 1952,
after serving as Dean of Students
at Southern Methodist University
in Dallas. He and his wife, Dorothy,
have two sons, Francis Pendleton,
If, 9, and Paul Randolph, 7.

MARCH 1954

THE UNIVERSITY

FACULTY

& SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS in grants
in-aid for Washington and Lee fac-
ulty members have been approved
by the Board of Trustees. The re-
cipients are the first to benefit from
the John M. Glenn Fund, which
was established by the Board last
fall with the $120,000 bequest to
the University made by the late
philanthropist, a member of the
Class of 1879 and for many years
an official of the Russell Sage Foun-
dation. The Glenn grants-in-aid
continue the program made possi-
ble from 1951 to 1953 by a $25,000
grant from the Carnegie Founda-
tion. Under the Carnegie gift 63
members of the University faculty
carried on special research, study,
and writing projects designed to
advance the calibre of undergrad-
uate instruction. Eleven depart-
ments are represented in the 1954
grants. The recipients and_ their
projects are:

Dr. Lewis W. Adams, study at
Harvard or Columbia in the field
of corporations, history of economic
thought, and international econom-
ics.

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, study
of the staging of plays of the Span-
ish Golden Age.

Dr. W. Gleason Bean, comple-
tion of research on “Sandy” Pen-
dleton, one of Stonewall Jackson’s
staff officers.

Dr. Jack N. Behrman, work on
a book dealing with foreign aid as
a technique in obtaining the eco-
nomic objectives of the United
States.

Dr. A. Ross Borden, Jr., prepa-
ration for teaching a course in con-
temporary literature.

Dr. Robert W. Dickey, prepara-
tion of a treatise on “‘Supplemen-
tary Aids in the Study of Me-
chanics.”’

Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick, a
study of contemporary American
architecture in Illinois and Wis-
consin.

Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, research
on the papers of Hugh Blair Grigs-
by.

Dr. E. S. Gilreath, work on a book
in advanced inorganic chemistry.

Dr. William M. Hinton, a study
of demonstrations in perception at
the Psychology Research Center in
Princeton.

Dr. William A. Jenks, research at
Duke University on developments
in Austria, 1879-1893.

Dr. Marion Junkin, a study of
fresco painting and Renaissance
art in Italy.

Dr. ‘Troy J. Laswell, geological re-
connaissance in the southern Ap-
plachians and Piedmont.

Dr. Charles V. Laughlin, research
in sociological jurisprudence.

Dr. Edward D. Myers, travel in
England and France for research
in the philosophy of history.

Dr. Marvin B. Perry, preparation
for teaching courses in the history
of literary criticism and another
in modern criticism.

Dr. James K. Shillington, student
assistance in research involving a
new and original resolution of op-
tically active compounds contain-
ing a carbonyl group.

Dr. Theodore A. Smedley, re-
search of legal problems involved in
a course in bankruptcy.

 

m ON SATURDAY, February 27, John
Higgins (“Hig”) Williams lectured
to his class on the history of inter-
national law. As the bell ending
the period rang, Hig gathered up
his notes and left the class, promis-
ing to continue the discussion on
‘Tuesday.

Since Tuesday was the opening of
Religious Emphasis Week on the
campus, classes were shortened to
include a University Assembly in
the schedule. The 10:15 class was
re-scheduled to 9:30. When Hig
failed to appear, the students filed
out chuckling over how he had
forgotten the changed schedule.

Outside Newcomb Hall, where
political science classes are held,
the students milled around for a
moment before moving on to the
co-op or to the various fraternity
houses. Several moments later some-
one brought the news: Hig had
been found unconscious in his
apartment, suffering from a cere-
bral hemorrhage.

All morning the deans’ offices
and the public relations office were
flooded with phone calls and with
visitors, all inquiring about Hig’s
condition. ‘Throughout the morn-
ing the report was the same: he
has not yet regained consciousness.
Finally, at 1:25 Stonewall Jackson
Hospital released the news. John
Higgins Williams, 57, died at 1:15
p-m., March 2, 1954.

A member of the Class of 1924,
Hig had spent three years as Ameri-
can vice-counsel in Ceylon before
returning to the University to earn
his masters degree. With that ac-
complished, he became a member
of the faculty in 1928. In the quar-
ter century that followed he was in-
strumental in bringing foreign dig-
nitaries to the campus to “spice up”
his classes. He served on the pub-
lications board for twenty-five years,
and was an active member of ODK,
leadership fraternity. But perhaps
most significant of all was the fact
that he maintained the student’s
outlook throughout his long tenure,
for which his rewards were staunch
friends and universal popularity

10

 

Joun Hiccrs (Hig) WiLLiAmMs—his rewards were staunch friends

and universal popularity among many generations of students

among many student generations.
That popularity was summed up
in the 1952 Calyx which was ded1-
cated to him. “His warm man-to-
man manner toward the individual
student,” the Calyx said, “has en-
deared him to those who know him
and has fostered an ideal faculty-
student relationship. ‘his easy go-
ing familiarity has bred no con-
tempt but rather sincere respect
and genuine fondness among a
large part of the student body.”

m FOUR YEARS AGO a Washington
and Lee philosophy professor was
talking with the famed _ historian,
Arnold J. ‘Toynbee, on the campus
of Princeton University. He asked
historian ‘Toynbee why he had nev-
er published a volume of maps to
supplement his ten-volume Study
of History.*

“Why don’t you do it?” asked
‘Toynbee.

Dr. Edward D. Myers, who began
his professorial work in Lexington
in 1949, balked at the idea, but at
Toynbee’s insistence finally agreed
to do so. The result: the Myers vol-
ume, scheduled as the eleventh in

*Vol. 1-3 published 1934; Vol. 4-6 pub-
lished 1939; Vol. 7-10 scheduled for pub-
lication September 1954 by the Oxford
University Press.

the mammouth historical _ series
penned by Toynbee, is tentatively
scheduled for publication by Lon-
don’s Oxford University Press in
May 1955. It will contain 73 maps
and a gazetteer with 3,500 entries
describing all geographic places
mentioned in the preceding ten
volumes. Although the published
maps will be drawn by a _ profes-
sional cartographer, the draft copies
of the maps were drawn by Myers.

Four years of research—most of it
done in the early morning hours
between 5:50 and 7:30 in his office
in the basement of McCormick Li-
brary—have gone into the prepara-
tion of Volume 11. Important as-
sistance has come from Dr. William
A. Jenks, history professor at the
University, and from Henry E. Cole-
man, Jr., librarian, and Martha B.
Culpepper, reference librarian, of
the McCormick Library staff. A
financial assist in the work was
eranted by the Rockefeller Foun-
dation.

Myers is also working on a sec-
ond volume, which will present a
discussion of the philosophy im-
plicit in the ‘Toynbee series. He
plans to go to London this summer
and, with the aid of a John M.
Glenn faculty grant, to do much
of his work in direct consultation
with Professor ‘Toynbee.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

DEVELOPMENT

MEMBERS OF THE University’s ad-
ministration and faculty have never
been known to suffer for lack of
something to keep them occupied.
But, as true as that has been in
the past, it is even more so now.
The reason: the University’s De-
velopment Program, which is slowly
but surely taking form, and _ the
generous amounts of time which
many of the University family have
been giving to numerous commit-
tee studies. All in all, they have
devoted six or seven hundred hours
of additional time and effort to
those studies already; and they will
spend many more before their as-
signments are complete.

The task that is claiming the
greatest share of time over and
above regular duties might best be
classified as Phase No. 1 of the De-
velopment Program, a self-study op-
eration designed to determine just
what the University’s needs are,
both those that exist now and those
that can be forseen as arising at
any time during the next decade.
Phase No. 1 requires long-range
thinking; it requires inclusive
thinking that embraces at once
needs related to faculty, students,
curriculum, equipment, library,
physical plant, and non-professional
personnel; and it requires thinking
that is oriented to the total Univer-
sity in order for stated objectives to
be clear and sound, and for the
priority assigned to each to be real-
istic. Real progress is being made
in this initial phase of the De-
velopment Program. ‘The “Case for
the University” is taking meaning-
ful and usable form.

Phase No. 2 is concerned with the
University’s relations with _ its
various publics—alumni, parents,
friends, corporations, the com-
munity, the general public—and
with ways of effectively presenting
the University, its functions and its
needs to those publics. In this area
a special committee has been exam-
ining critically all of the ways in
which Washington and Lee has con-
tact with its publics, with an eye to

MARCH 1954

recognizing strong points, pointing
out weak points, and suggesting
methods by which the total public
relations program can be strength-
ened.

Phase No. 3 is that concerned
with various fund-raising efforts
which the University will under-
take. As yet this aspect of the De-
velopment Program has not re-
ceived as much attention as have
the studies of needs and of the Unt-
versity’s relations with its publics,
simply because the others must to
a large extent come first. However,
this phase has by no means been
neglected. On the contrary, Direc-
tor of Development Donald E.
Smith and his staff, in addition to
servicing the numerous committees
that are functioning, have worked
closely with alumni officials in mak-
ing revisions in Alumni Fund or-
ganization and procedure. ‘hey
have been working out organiza-
tional plans for other fund-raising
efforts. And, they have made prog-
ress toward accumulating the vast
amount of data that must be avail-
able if fund-raising efforts are to
be efficient and eftective.

LIBRARY

A VALUABLE COLLECTION of Ger-
man books, numbering 875 vol-
umes, has been presented to the Mc-
Cormick Library by Dr. Howard W.

 

Mvers—his answer was a balk and a book

Church of Danville, Virginia. Ac-
cording to Dr. William W. Pusey,
who spent several weeks examining
the books, the collection consists
chiefly of German literature and a
number of books on recent history
and politics. Ranging from medie-
val to contemporary authors, it
contains valuable sets of Goethe,
Schiller, and Heine, as well as a
large variety of books by such
contemporaries as Kafka, Feucht-
wanger, Schweitzer, Remarque and
Thomas Mann. Biographies, dic-
tionaries, philological works, and
sets of periodicals are also included.

The donor was a_ professor of
German at Lafayette College until
his retirement several years ago. A
graduate of Yale University, he also
studied in Germany, and taught at
Yale and in California before go-
ing to Lafayette.

R.OVT.C.

eB THE UNIVERSIFY will change its
ROTC program next September
by offering training in a General
Military Science program instead
of training for the ‘Transportation
Corps. In a letter to the University
last October, the Army stated that
ROTC units specializing in trans-
portation, quartermaster, and mili-
tary police training were overpro-
ducing commissioned reserve of-
ficers, and that a larger number of
reserve commissions should be
available to ROTC graduates who
have taken the general program.
The Army further suggested that
specialized training at Washington
and Lee be replaced by general in-
struction.

Professor Charles P. Light’s com-
mittee on military affairs, after a
three-month study of the Army’s
suggestion, reported to Dr. Gaines
that “in order to assure our stu-
dents the maximum opportunity to
receive ROTC training and Army
reserve commissions, we recommend
that the University comply with
the wish expressed by the Army.”

The Transportation Corps unit
was established at Washington and
Lee in September 1951. Members

11

of the present junior class will com-
plete their transportation training
next year and will not be affected
by the change.

Both Dr. Gaines and the commit-
tee on military affairs have paid
tribute to the work done by Lt. Col.
Richard W. Jones, Jr., who has di-
rected the ‘Transportation Corps
program since its establishment on
campus, and by the members of his
staff. “Our relations with the Trans-
portation Corps and their repre-
sentatives here have been complete-
ly happy,” Dr. Gaines said. “The
change is an effort to comply with
the needs of our government.”

SCHOLARSHIPS

m THE UNIVERSITY has announced
the establishment of an annual
scholarship in memory of John
Dashiell Rouse, a member of the
Class of 1949 who was killed in com-
bat in Korea on September 2, 1951.
Lieutenant Rouse was a native of
Newport News and a graduate of
the schools there. He attended
Hampden-Sydney College prior to
World War II, and after serving
overseas in that conflict entered
Washington and Lee and com-
pleted work on his degree. He was
recalled to service in the Army re-
serve in 1950, and was posthum-
ously awarded the Silver Star for
gallantry in action at the time of
his death.

Members of his family, who en-
dowed the scholarship, are his wife,
Mrs. Anne Colonna Rouse, of New-
port News; his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Parke Rouse, of Newport
News; and his three brothers, Parke
Rouse, Jr., ’37, of Williamsburg,
and Randolph Rouse, ’39, and Wil-
liam Rouse, ’50, both of Fairfax
County, Virginia, and Washington,
D. C. He is also survived by a young
son John Dashiell Rouse, Jr., of
Newport News.

‘The first $400 grant of the $10,000
scholarship endowment will be
available in September.

m AN IDEA BORN SIX years ago by
students to give Washington and

12

Lee a “living” World War II me-
morial became a reality early in De-
cember in the form of a $10,000
scholarship fund. ‘The check for the
full amount, raised entirely by stu-
dents, was handed to University
Treasurer Earl S. Mattingly by
Dean Guy, chairman of the Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund
Committee, in December.

The War Memorial Committee
was formed in December 1947, after
students had recommended that a
scholarship fund be established to
honor the 132 students and alumni
who died in the war. Since then it
has staged dances, interfraternity
football games, concerts, and other
events in order to reach the $10,000
goal. As a result of their six-year
effort, a $400 scholarship will be
awarded annually.

m A MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is being
established at Washington and Lee
in memory of John Rugel, ’48, who
died at sea on November 27, 1953.
He was aboard the steamship Ex-
cambrion, enroute to this country
from the Near East for the Christ-
mas holidays, when he suffered a
heart attack.

LAW SCHOOL

m™ THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Law
School Association will hold its
second annual meeting on Saturday,
April 24, 1954, at 3 o'clock, fol-
lowing the last of three ‘Tucker Lec-
tures to be given by Judge Harold
R. Medina on April 23 and 24.

The Association was founded in
the spring of 1952 by a small group
of alumni for the purposes of en-
listing and encouraging the in-
terest of alumni in the instruction-
al programs of the School of Law,
of increasing the usefulness of the
School of Law and promoting its
welfare, and of encouraging a
mutuality of interest in sound and
thorough legal training, as well as
a spirit of fellowship, among the
alumni.

The Association is not a fund
raising organization and its Con-
stitution limits its dues to $5.00 a
year.

Active membership in the Asso-
Clation is open to all graduates,
all persons who honorably attended
and all members of the senior class
of the School of Law, all members
of the faculty of the School of Law,
and all members of the Bar who
were graduated by, or who honor-
ably attended, any department of
the University.

Since its organization the Associa-
tion has expanded until it now
includes among its membership ap-
proximately one-fifth of the quali-
fied alumni. The organizing of
alumni was of necessity drawn from
the area easily accessible to Lex-
ington, Virginia, but the member-
ship of the Association has now
spread over the whole country.

‘The Association has concentrated
on organizing, explaining its pur-
poses to alumni and _ interesting
them in these purposes, obtaining a
broad membership, securing a mu-
tuality of understanding between
alumni and faculty of the problems
of the School of Law, and laying
the groundwork for its future prog-
ress. ‘The second yearly committee
meeting and the meeting of the
Council (the governing body of the
Association) were held in February
of 1954, and reports and recom-
mendations will be submitted to the
membership at the annual meeting
of the Association in April of this
year.

UNDERGRADUATES

m SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS are Over,
but that fact hasn’t meant a thing
to five Washington and Lee seniors
who have been studying as hard
these past several weeks as they
ever studied for a semester exam.
And their efforts have paid off, to
the tune of $2,000 ($500 for each
victory) and desirable nationwide
publicity for the University, and
in intense enjoyment and satisfac-
tion on the part of University par-
tisans. The reason for this: the Col-
lege Quiz Bowl (often described as
the toughest quiz show on the air)
and the success Washington and
Lee’s top scholars have achieved as
participants.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Jor MorFFatt, 46, refereed as Quiz Bowl scho

It all began back in January
when University officials were ap-
proached to see whether or not
Washington and Lee would be in-
terested in participating in this na-
tionwide radio program, designed,
according to the National Broad-
casting Company, “to demonstrate
in the best possible manner the
poise and erudition of America’s
college students.” They were, and
to Jack Carper, ’50, Director of
Publicity, fell the difficult assign-
ment of first selecting the students
to participate and then giving
them the guidance and practice they
would need if they were to be suc-
cessful.

It was evident that to win they
would have to overcome strong op-
position. Recent Quiz Bowl history
had recorded the University of
Minnesota as an eight-time winner
before being defeated by the Brown-
Pembroke team. And at the time
Washington and Lee was ap-
proached, the Providence, Rhode
Island, contingent was in the midst
of a six-week winning streak. Smith
College subsequently ended _ that,
and after downing the University
of Indiana met Washington and
Lee’s best in a contest which was
transcribed on February 18 for re-
broadcast on the g1st.

MARCH 1954

In the meantime, however, Car-
per consulted numerous University
officials, selected six seniors on the
basis of their academic achievement
and breadth of interest, tried them
out on tape recordings of several
Quiz Bowl programs, and made
the final selection of the four to
compete with the female scholars
from Northampton, Massachusetts.
‘Those chosen were Fred Lackmann
and Robert Paxton of Lexington,
Harold Quinn of Shreveport,
Louisiana, and Henry Turner of
Bethesda, Maryland. Norman Dob-
yns of Newport News was named
alternate to fill in for any team
member who might for some reason
be unable to appear. All are mem-
bers of Phi Beta Kappa, and Paxton
holds the additional dual distinc-
tion of being valedictorian of his
class and a Rhodes Scholar.

The Quiz Bowl has a unique
system of operation. Each college
team is on its own campus, while
the moderator, Allen Ludden, is
in New York City. A three-way
telephonic cable hook-up gives the
impression that all participants are
in the same studio. The studio in
Lexington was Washington Chapel.
‘There technical arrangements for
the broadcast were handled by
WSLS’s Joe Moffatt, ’46, acted as

 

radio station WSLS, Roanoke, and
referee for the Washington and
Lee team. ‘wo large speakers were
set up in the Chapel so that the
audience, many of whom came to
the initial contest more out of curi-
osity than excitement, could hear
the efforts of both teams. But in
subsequent weeks a speaker had to
be placed in the hall in order to
satisfy an enthusiastic overflow.

‘The audience soon found out that
while about one-third of the ques-
tions deal with current events, mu-
sic, and sports, most of them are
academic in nature and designed to
cover material presented in under-
graduate liberal arts courses. ‘lypi-
cal questions: “Who originally said,
“The proper study of mankind is
man’”” and “What 17th Century
philosopher can be associated with
a whale?’ (Answers: Alexander
Pope and ‘Thomas Hobbes.)

The audience learned, too, that
Washington and Lee’s scholars were
fully capable of matching the best
talents that Smith College might of-
fer. ‘They took each question in
stride, came up with the difficult
answers, and maintained a com-
fortable lead throughout the con-
test. By a final score of 180-110 they
brought the Quiz Bowl title to
Washington and Lee.

is

 

 

But they would have to fight for
their title, for each week an impos-
ing array of scholars from another
college was scheduled for its chance
to dethrone them. It was not surpris-
ing, therefore, that in subsequent
weeks enthusiasm on the part of
students, faculty, and townspeople
increased. One had to be on hand
an hour-and-a-half before the start
of the second contest in order to
get a seat in Washington Chapel,
there to witness the downfall of the
University of Chicago by a 200-150
score. A week later, those who failed
to arrive nearly two hours before
the quiz program began found it
necessary to line the stairs in Wash-
ington Hall in order to hear the
“Classroom Generals’ defeat Prince-
ton, 180-140. And the same intense
interest continued as the team ex-
tended its winning streak against
Barnard College in a nip-and-tuck
contest that ended with a 190-165
score.

The University of Pittsburgh 1s
scheduled to provide opposition
for the next suspense-packed eve-
ning. But win or lose, the Quiz
Bowl has already demonstrated its
value. The college and the com-
munity are highly elated over the
team’s success. Editorial comment
in the state press has been very
favorable. And alumni far and
wide have enjoyed their weekly
radio sojourns with the campus
scholars.

& THE ANNUAL SELECTION of the class
valedictorian at Washington and
Lee is usually preceded by several
weeks of campus speculation as the
list of seniors with high scholastic
averages is discussed, and students
attempt to remember who got a B
in what course. But this year there
was no speculation. Everyone knew
the answer long before it was made
official. So it was. no surprise when
the announcement was posted nam-
ing Robert Owen Paxton of Lex-
ington valedictorian for the Class

of 1954.
His selection was the third scho-
lastic honor Paxton has received

14

 

 

PaxtoN—Valedictorian and Rhodes Scholar

this year. Last month it was an-
nounced that the 21-year-old history
major had received a Rhodes Schol-
arship and would go on from Wash-
ington and Lee to two years of study
at Oxford University. He won this
scholarship in competition with
students in a six-state southern dis-
trict. ‘The University and V. M. I.
were the only two Virginia schools
represented in the Rhodes Scholar-
ship choices.

‘The second honor received by
Paxton was his selection to the
panel to participate in the College
Quiz Bowl (see story, page 12).

‘Three generations of Paxtons
have been heading the University’s
scholastic lists. Bob’s father, now a
prominent Lexington lawyer and
publisher of The Rockbridge
County News, was a Phi Beta Kap-
pa in the Class of 1918. He was
also a member of the legal scho-
lastic fraternity when he received
his LL.B. in 1920. And Bob’s grand-
father, the elder Matthew W., was
a Phi Beta Kappa in the Class of
1876.

As can be easily surmised, Bob
also is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa. In addition, he is a past
member of the freshman scholastic
fraternity, an officer of his senior
class, and has held offices in his so-
cial fraternity, Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon.

WINTER SPORTS

m FOR FOUR YEARS, Swimming Coach
Cy I'wombly has watched his teams
dwindling, and the splash at the fin-
ish line rarely has been recorded on
the Washington and Lee side of the
score sheet. For some inexplicable
reason, incoming freshmen were
simply not interested in swimming.
Disinterested competitors mean
losses, and losses mean disinterested
spectators. Swimming at Washine-
ton and Lee seemed on the way out.

But this year things were differ-
ent. From the first splash on,
Twombly saw that the crop of
freshmen was definitely interested.
And not only interested, but good.
Moreover, at the end of their sche-
dule some two months later, Wash-
ington and Lee’s freshman swim-
mers had scored six wins against
only one loss. And most of the wins
were not even close, the point
spread having always been at least
25 points in favor of the Lexing-
tonians.

One of the University’s swim-
ming records also went by the
boards before the freshmen got
through. John (Jay) Fox, of Blue-
field, West Virginia, broke the Uni-
versity’s breast stroke record for
both the ’50- and 100-yard events.
Coach ‘'wombly calls Jay “the most
outstanding swimmer we’ve had for
many years.”

# ALTHOUGH THE FRESHMAN swim-
mers turned in the best record of
the Winter season, the wrestling
squad turned in a creditable 4-3-1
record (including a victory over
Virginia) and came up with some
outstanding individual perform-
ances.

John Ellis, a 130-pound sopho-
more from Leonia, New _ Jersey,
wound up his season with an unde-
feated record. Ellis topped his
competitors in eight contests, in-
cluding matches with Maryland
and Franklin and Marshall—two of
the nation’s top teams.

Another member chalked up a
record second only to Ellis’s. Gilbert
(Gibby) McSpadden of Memphis

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

has been defeated only twice in
two seasons of competition. The
muscular 167-pounder lost in the
finals of last year’s Southern Confer-
ence tournament to Maryland’s
“famed Fischer.” McSpadden went
through this year’s competition
without a defeat until Maryland
again appeared on the schedule,
when he took the second loss of his
career—again to Fischer.

AS THE SEASON Opened and area
sportswriters looked over the Wash-
ington and Lee basketball line-up,
“big things’ were predicted. Coach
Billy McCann was flooring an ex-
perienced team, one that gave prom-
ise of making the preceding year’s
2-20 record look ridiculous. Captain
and Center Jim Rich, a 6-4 senior
from Welch, West Virginia, was
the big gun as the Generals scored
easy’ wins over their first two
rivals, Bridgewater and Lynchburg.
In addition to Rich, Charlie Topp
of Wheeling, and Stu Atkinson of
Warwick, Virginia, were scoring
consistently, averaging 13 and 12
points per game, respectively.

But at mid-semester Topp stum-
bled over academic hurdles and
was made ineligible. Atkinson also
left the team. It was Rich, there-
fore, who had to assume a major
share of the responsibility for the
team’s success in court contests. And
it was largely his doing that ac-
counted for the Generals 6-16 rec-
ord and for their gaining a berth in
the Southern Conference tourney.
‘The lanky senior finished the sea-
son with a game average of 19.7
points. In one game a week be-
fore the end of the season, he scor-
ed 38 points to break his own game-
scoring record. In the next contest
(a 72-62 overtime win over V.P.I.)
he notched 29 points, and followed
with 26 against West Virginia.

On the basketball scene, however,
the freshmen far outshone the var-
sity. ‘(The frosh earned a 7-5 record
for the season. This outstanding
crop of freshmen and the predomi-
nance of sophomores on the varsity
squad predict a better season for
next year’s varsity quintet.

MARCH 1954

The Athletic Story

(Continued from page 7)

basketball) is played by us and by
our natural rivals with subsidized
players. (If I could have my wish, I
would wish it were not so.) ‘This
does not mean, however, that sub-
sidized football is necessarily evil.
Much moral indignation can be
wasted over this. As for Washington
and Lee, one has only to know our
football squad members to find the
answer. Washington and Lee is the
better because they are members
of our student body.

Thirdly, there is the part that
football plays in bringing together
all elements of the school into a
common bond. President Ralph
Cooper Hutchison of Lafayette Col-
lege has stated this thought ad-
mirably in his article: “Football:
Symbol of College Unity,” in the
April 16, 1952 issue of The Chris-
tian Century Magazine. We saw
something of this last November

when so many of our alumni re-
turned for the Virginia game on
Wilson Field. (Perhaps, it is the
privilege of providing such oc-
casions that has sustained “Cap’n
Dick” Smith, ’13, through the more
than thirty years he has served as
athletic director! It is not inap-
propriate to note here, in view of
Cap’n Dick’s retirement next July,
the appreciation of our alumni, as
recently expressed by Amos Bolen,
Class of ’34: “I am sure the school
appreciates and will ever feel in-
debted to Cap’n Dick for a difficult
job well done.”)

Finally, we recall what Coach
Carl Wise once pertinently ob-
served: “If I didn’t know so much
about the problem, maybe I'd have
an easy answer.” ‘There is no easy
answer. There is no final answer.
Maintaining intercollegiate football
at Washington and Lee has been
and will continue to be a thorny
problem. Whatever program we
have should always be subject to
criticism. Let us hope the criticism
will be not unreasoning but under-
standing.

 

Captain and Center JIM RICH averaged 19.7 points a game,
sparked the team to the Southern Conference tourney

”»

BALTIMORE

The Baltimore Alumni Chapter
held its annual membership meet-
ing on December 16, 1953, and the
following officers were elected to
serve for the coming year: C. Wil-
liam Pacy, °50, president; David
Ryer, ’51, vice-president; Talbott
Bond, ’51, secretary-treasurer.

JACKSONVILLE

On February 19, alumni of
Jacksonville, Florida, met for din-
ner at the Timuquana Country
Club and heard Dr. Gaines make
a very interesting and inspiring
talk, bringing those present up to

16

 

nd parents heard Dr. Gaines in Jacksonville

date on University affairs. Seventy-
two alumni and guests were present
and also a number of prospective
students from the various high
schools with their parents and some
of the parents of present students
of Washington and Lee. Mrs. W.
H. Moreland was also present.

Dink Foerster, ’51, president of
the chapter, presided.

LOUISVILLE

The Louisville, Kentucky, Alum-
ni Chapter held a dinner meeting
on January 19, commemorating the
birthday of General Robert E. Lee,
with an excellent attendance al-

though the weather was such that
many out-of-town guests were pre-
vented from being present. ‘The
film of the Washington and Lee-
Virginia game was greatly enjoyed.

LYNCHBURG

Lynchburg alumni held their an-
nual dinner meeting at Oakwood
Country Club on February 24, with
Dr. Allen W. Moger representing
the University. Dr. Moger discussed
and showed the film on Robert E.
Lee which he assisted in producing.
Parts of the movie, “Robert E. Lee:
a Background Study” were made
at Washington and Lee. The pic-
ture has been acclaimed by several
historical organizations. Officers of
the chapter were elected as follows:
Elliot Schewel, ’45, president; C.
Lynch Christian, Jr., 47, vice-presi-
dent, and Richard Burke, III, ’42,
secretary and treasurer.

MERIDIAN

Alumni and their wives met in
the Magnolia Room of the Lamar
Hotel in Meridian, Mississippi, on
February 22, for their annual din-
ner meeting. Doug Simpson, ’39,
chairman of arrangements, was in
charge.

Julius Berry, ’29, of ‘Tupelo, dis-
cussed his idea of establishing a
scholarship for the purpose of aid-
ing some deserving young man from
Mississippi to attend Washington
and Lee. A committee was appoint-
ed to work with him toward this
end, and it is hoped the project
will soon develop into a reality.

‘The picture of the Washington
and Lee-Virginia game was shown
and enthusiastically received.

PHILADELPHIA

A most enjoyable dinner meet-
ing of the Philadelphia alumni was
held at the Mid-City Club on Feb-
ruary 22, with 35 alumni and guests
present. A social hour preceded the
meeting. Cy Young, Alumni Sec-
retary, represented the University
and brought those present up to
date on University affairs.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

A film on the life of General
Robert E. Lee was shown, the pic-
ture having been produced by Cor-
onet magazine as one of a series of
educational films. Many of the shots
were made on the Washington and
Lee campus. Although deep in
Yankee-Land, and it being George
Washington’s birthday, the picture
was much enjoyed by those present.
Al Snyder, ’39, president of the
chapter, presided.

NEW YORK

‘The New York Alumni Chapter
met for its annual dinner and dance
at the Columbia University Club on
November 20, 1953, with some 100
alumni and wives in attendance. Dr.

Gaines was the principal speaker
of the evening and the party was
an outstandingly successful one.

The chapter met again, as plan-
ned, on Friday, February 5, for a
stag affair with about fifty alumni
present. ‘The Washington and Lee-
Virginia football film was shown
and enthusiastically received. This
was the chapter’s Annual Beer
Party and Dinner, and was held at
“The Old Brew House” on 54th
Street, off 3rd Avenue, and a few
doors away from “El Morocco” and
“The Embers.” W. L. (Pin) Web-
ster, President of the General Alum-
ni Association, came down from
up-state New York for the meeting.
Many of the younger alumni were
on hand for the party.

A Reading List Gets Around

WILLIAM F. LAMONT, ’17

m IN THE SUMMER Of 1930, Mr. Sam-
uel Blackman, Rutgers’ campus
representative of the Associated
Press, was in desperate straits for
material for his daily report. There
had been no college sports to write
about and no town murders.
Clutching a rabbit’s foot and wear-
ing a four-leaf clover, he sent in one
of my reading lists to his New York
editor—“‘Sixty Great Novels of All
Time.”

To Blackman’s great relief and
to my utter amazement, the list was
not only accepted but was printed
within two or three days by several
of the largest metropolitan news-
papers. Shortly afterwards, it ap-
peared in papers and magazines all
over the country, and before the
year was out it had made the rounds
of the European and Latin-Ameri-
can periodicals. It ended in the
World Almanac for 1931.

As might be expected of such a
highly publicized selection of books,
it started all manner of literary
brawls. European critics heatedly
denounced the list, claiming that
some of the great French, German,
and Spanish novels had been delib-
erately and spitefully omitted in

MARCH 1954

order to find room tor third-rate
English and American productions.
Outraged Anglo-Saxons, on the oth-
er hand, rushed into print to pro-
test against the small number of
their native works and to demand
the inclusion of additional novels
by their favorite English or Ameri-
can authors. |

While all these alarums, excur-
sions, and caterwaulings were filling
the journalistic ozone, the New
York Post, ever alert for an oppor-
tunity to capitalize on a situation of
such promise, announced its inten-
tion of publishing a series of guides
concerned with the masterworks of
art and compiled by a team of ex-
perts of its own choosing.

Limiting the number of titles on
each list to fifty (instead of 60, as
I had done) the Post invited AI-
bert Coates to select what he con-
sidered to be the fifty greatest musi-
cal compositions of all time, David
Belasco to select the greatest actors
and actresses, William Henry Fox
the greatest paintings, Hatcher
Hughes the greatest dramas, and
David Mark Griffith the greatest
motion pictures.

The Post prefaced each of these

with the following comment: The
widespread interest aroused by the
recent selection of the “great novels
of all time” by William H. F. La-
mont has led the Post to ask author-
ities in other branches of the arts
to compile lists of the “best fifty’
in their respective fields.

As might be expected, the Post’s
lists excited a tremendous amount
of general interest. And no won-
der! ‘There had probably never be-
fore been a series of guides pre-
pared by so distinguished a group
of artists and scholars.

The list of musical compositions
selected by Albert Coates intrigued
me especially. It was an intensely
personal list, obviously made up of
the conductor’s special favorites.
It made me wonder what pieces
would have been on the lists of
Bruno Walter and Arturo ‘Tos-
canini. And that made me speculate
on the contents of a complete list
made up of the combined choices of
all three of these great musicians.

With this composite idea in mind,
I determined (about a year ago) to
make such a list of great novels. As
a foundation, I used three famous
earlier compilations; William Lyon
Phelps’ “Fifteen Finest Novels,”
Arthur Symons’ “Fifteen Finest
Novels,” and Somerset Maugham’s
“Ten Best Novels of the World.”
Comparing them with one another
and noting wherein they most
agreed, I made a new list, “Fifteen
Masterpieces of Fiction.”

Although this list has not thus
far exhibited such vigorous activi-
ty as its predecessor of 1930, never-
theless it has been quite lively in
its unassuming way. Within a few
months of its completion, it ap-
peared in the New York Herald
Tribune, in the Dagens Nyheter of
Stockholm, and in De Periscoop of
Brussels. Its latest but by no means
least significant appearance was in
the fine, well-written, but somewhat
exclusive periodical which _ is
known, I hope, to but few Wash-
ington and Lee men—the San
Quentin Prison News. This new
list has also been getting around!

17

Lexington’s NEW HOSPITAL

NorMAN DOBYNS, 54

EVERAL years ago a Washington
S and Lee student was battling
it out with a tenacious cold virus.
He was suffering with a high fever,
so his fraternity brothers advised
him to go to the hospital.

“No thanks,’ he said ‘“‘I’d rather
suffer through it than spend any
time in that hospital.” Fortunately
the majority of W. and L. students
have gone through four years in
Lexington without ever having to
enter Jackson Memorial Hospital.

For those who have, however, the
prospect was not a cheery one. Drab
colors, archaic furnishings, and
somewhat -less-than-modern facili-
ties, have not favorably impressed
students over the years.

But W&Lers haven’t been alone
in looking askance at the offerings
of Jackson Memorial Hospital. Sev-
en years ago, on September 15,
1946, a committee was appointed
to consider the question of hospi-
tal improvement for Rockbridge
County.

Three weeks ago, the staff, pa-
tients, and some equipment from
the old Jackson Memorial Hospital
were moved into a new, $1,000,000
hospital on a 2o-acre site in the east-

18

ern part of Lexington. ‘The new
Stonewall Jackson Hospital* is con-
structed on property adjoining Col
Alto, the ‘Tucker Home.

The Washington and Lee com-
munity, realizing the benefits it
would derive from a new hospital,
was influential in its completion.
The University contributed $50,000
to the project. In recognition of
this assistance, the hospital has es-
tablished a special four-bed ward
for the sole use of Washington and
Lee students. This room is equip-
ped with a private bath and shower.

Students will continue to get re-
duced rates under a plan similar to
that which has been in effect at the
old hospital. In 1953, 108 students
were admitted to the hospital.

Students also contributed to the
financing of the new hospital. In a
1950 fund drive, $1,750 was col-
lected from the student body
through the various fraternities.
This gift is memorialized on a wall
tablet.

*When the corporation for the new
hospital was formed, a new name was
selected to differentiate the new from the
old hospital.

 

Many members of Washington
and Lee’s faculty and administra-
tion contributed time and resources
to the new hospital. Treasurer Earl
S. Mattingly, ’25, has served on the
board of directors of the project
since its inception. Dean Frank
J. Gilliam, *17, served as assistant
chairman of the financial campaign,
and his efforts were aided by mem-
bers of the faculty.

Dr. Marion Junkin, ‘29, fine arts
professor and painter of the oft-
viewed mural in the basement of
McCormick Library, donated a
mural which adorns the entrance
lobby.

Among W&L alumni who have
served on the board for the Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital are Ralph
Daves, °26, Matthew Paxton, ’18,
and Stuart Moore, ’14. Mrs. Frank
J. Gilliam was recently appointed to
the board. She will oversee land-
scaping and planting of the hospital
grounds, a project which is being
sponsored by Rockbridge County
garden clubs.

President Francis P. Gaines add-
ed the final touch to Washington
and Lee’s contributions when he
presided over the dedication of the
new building on January 21.

Compared to the new hospital,
Jackson Memorial looks like a Ken-
tucky mountain outhouse beside
a blue grass mansion. Designed by
York & Sawyer of New York, archi-
tects specializing in hospital con-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

struction, Stonewall Jackson Hospi-
tal is a one-level red-brick construc-
tion.

If you were to walk from the
main entrance to the far end of the
building, you would step off 386
feet—more than the length of a
football field.

An elaborate basement level
houses storage and boiler rooms,
alone with emergency gas supply
units and a concrete freight loading
platform. This platform can also
be used to transport patients from
ambulances to the interior of the
building without exposing them to
inclement weather.

As for patient comfort, every-
thing from adjustable bed-tables
to private telephones have been
provided. Each bedroom has a
washbasin, and _ the
rooms have private baths. Each pa-
tient has a roomy metal wardrobe.
An adjustable metal lamp, by each
bed, gives either direct or indirect
lighting. Furniture in the rooms
is comfortable and modern, fitting
in with the soft wall colors.

SIX private

A patient who wants a nurse
doesn’t have to yell. He simply
pushes a button by his bed and a
yellow light in the corridor over
his door is turned on. Window-type
air conditioners can be installed
in rooms during the Summer. And
in case a patient wants a private
line, telephones
can be installed in 15 rooms.

communications

‘The problem of getting hot meals
to patients has always vexed hos-
pital administrators. ‘This will pre-
sent no problem to the Stonewall
Jeckson staff because of an in-
genious device known as “meal-
pack.” ‘The mealpack is a_ plate
sized pyrex dish inside a thermos
metal container, which can keep a
meal warm and fresh for three
hours. Each mealpack container has
a place for a nametag so patients
can get special meals if necessary.

Jackson Memorial, Inc., has con-
tracted to buy the old Jackson Me-
morial Hospital and to maintain
it as an historic landmark of Lex-
ington.

MARCH 1954

 

06 WALTER H. DUNLAP retired from

the Federal Power Commission in Febru-
ary 1953, and is still living at The High-
lands, Washington 9, D.C. As a hobby he
is handling his water front real estate near
Annapolis.

17 W. CALVIN WELLS, III, has been

elected to the board of directors of the
First National Bank, Jackson, Mississippi.
He is senior member of the firm of Wells,
Thomas and Wells, and active in many
civic and business affairs throughout the
State.

2 P| JoHN L. PATTERSON is a member

of the recently opened Patterson-Britt In-
surance Agency, with offices at 3920 Lindell
Boulevard, St. Louis 8, Missouri.

DANIEL A. ‘TAYLOR assumed the office of
Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service

on November 9, 1953. Address: Sheraton-
Park Hotel, 2660 Woodley Road, N. W.,
Washington, D.C.

30 D. ALLEN PENICK has been elected

to the membership of the Laird Founda-
tion, at its annual meeting in Mont-
gomery, West Virginia, on January 4,
1954. The Laird Foundation is an elee-
mosynary corporation for the relief of
suffering, the promotion of medical re-
search and education. ‘The Laird Memorial
Hospital in Montgomery is a division of
this Foundation. The foundation was es-
tablished in memory of the late William
R. Laird and his wife, Ella Penick Laird.
Dr. WILLIAM R. LAIRD, JR. “10, was instru-
mental in its foundation.

3 ( NEIL C. PAscoz, after several years

service in World War II, renewed afhfiia-
tions with Selected Risks Companies (in-

 

Alumnus succeeded alumnus at the installation of officers of the St. Petersburg, Florida,
Bar Association at the Bahama Shores Yatch Club in January. JAMES A. MCCLURE, JR.
37 (left), accepted the presidential gavel from JoHN C. BLOCKER, ’20. Many Washington
and Lee alumni have headed their local and state bar associations, but, as far as we
have been able to ascertain, this is the first time one alumnus has succeeded another.

19°

 

surance) Branchville, New Jersey, and has
recently completed fifteen years service
with them—now serving as Assistant Sec-
retary in charge of personnel. Address: Box
247, Branchville, New Jersey.

Mitton L. Harris, M.D., after spending
several years as a member of the Johns
Hopkins Hospital staff, has been practicing
internal medicine in Baton Rouge, Louis-
iana, since July, 1952. Address: 3759 Con-
vention St., Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

Lesytie E. ‘Tucker is the proprietor of
Tucker Brokerage Company, food brokers,
P. O. Box 2433, Birmingham, Alabama.

CHARLES COLLIER has been with North
Carolina Finishing Company, Salisbury,
North Carolina, for 19 years, except for
five years in the Army (ETO). He married
Elizabeth Collett in 1947 and they have
two children, Elizabeth, age 3, and Charles,
Jr., age 1. Address: 330 S. Ellis Street,
Salisbury, North Carolina.

JAMES DUNCAN BurRN is manager, Eastern
Inspection Bureau, Wilson Building, Ma-
nila, Philippine Islands.

Vicror F. ‘Tucker, shortly after release
from active duty with the Navy in 1946,
has been associated with the Atlas Ad-
hesives of the Flintkote Company, Mana-
yunk, Philadephia 27, Pennsylvania. He is
at present General Sales Manager of the
company. Home address: Emlen Arms,
6733 Emlen Street, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania.

RatpH D. Wuittey, M.D., after graduat-
ing in medicine from George Washington
University, spent six years in the Medi-
cal Corps of the U. S. Navy. He is now
practicing surgery in Washington, D.C.,
with offices at suite 301—1302 Eighteenth
Street, N.W. He is married and has a
daughter 5 years old.

THORNTON G. BERRY was apointed Judge
of the Circuit Court for the Eighth Judi-
cial Circuit of West Virginia in Septem-
ber, 1952, and was elected for a full term,
beginning January 1, 1953. Before being
elevated to the Bench, he was in the
Navy and, after the war, in the private
practice of law. Address: First National
Bank Building, Welch, West Virginia.

ROBERT BAILEY is a member of the law
firm of Bailey, Worrell & Bailey, Pineville,

20

West Virginia, both he and CLARENCE
WorRELL being members of the Law Class
of 1934. Apparently Bailey and Worrell
take turn about serving as Prosecuting
Attorney and Assistant Prosecuting At-
torney.

3S WINTHROP C. SMITH, 734 Boule-

vard, Westfield, New Jersey, is the author
of an article entitled “Compounding Butyl
Rubber for Mineral-Filled Stocks” which
was published recently in the India Rub-
ber World. Mr. Smith, a member of the
staff of the Esso Laboratories of the
Standard Oil Development Company, re-
ceived his B.S. in chemistry here and his
Masters degree from Pennsylvania State
College.

37 WILLIAM D. ELLIs has been on ac-

tive duty in the U. S. Navy since 1942.
In 1946 he was transferred from the Re-
serves to the regular Navy. He is at present
Force Supply Officer, Amphibious Force,
U.S. Atlantic Fleet, stationed aboard the
Flag Ship U.S.S. Pocono. He was promoted
to the rank of Commander on January 1,
1951. Present address: 401 East Chester
Street, Norfolk, Virginia.

M. Cow. RIpER, JR., formerly associate
editor of the Richmond News-Leader, has
joined the copy department of N. W.
Ayer & Son, Inc., Philadelphia. Address:
248 Dudley Avenue, Narberth, Pennsyl-
vania.

Lewis D. WILLIAMS, B.S. ’37, has been ap-
pointed Sales Manager for Sumner Chemi-
cal Company and will be in charge of all
sales of Sumner’s pharmaceutical chemi-
cals. Lew also received his master’s degree
from the University in 1939, and added
further to his educational background

WILLIAMS—he was made manager of sales

 

with post-graduate work at both the
University of Chicago and Northwestern
University. He joined Sumner in 1948 in
a technical sales capacity after teaching
at Washington and Lee for nine years.
During the war he served for thirty months
as an officer of the U. S. Navy.

WILLIAM H. ALLEN completed his tour of
duty with the Navy (August 1950 to
August 1952) and has returned to his job
in the office building industry, Building
Owners and Managers of Atlanta, Inc.,
of which he is secretary. He and his fam-
ily are now settled in Atlanta, at last in
a house big enough for them. They now
have four children, the third son having
been born on November 11, 1953. Address:
601 Healey Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

38 PAuL M. MILLER was a recent visi-

tor to the campus during a vacation from
the State Department, having served in
London, Geneva, Belfast, and more re-
cently in Hong Kong. His next assign-
ment will be with the American Embassy,
Philippine Islands. He married Dorothy
Shepherd in 1948 and they have a son,
Michael Paul, born in Belfast, Ireland.
Home address: 10211 Montgomery Avenue,
Kensington, Maryland.

3 9g ANDREW M. EASTWICK, JR., is NOW

associated with the firm of E. R. Jones and
Company, members of the Philadelphia-
Baltimore Stock Exchange. He was form-
erly associated with George G. Shriver and
Company, Inc. Address: Miller Road,
Cockeysville, Maryland.

CHARLES K. LATUus is associated with the
Seaboard Finance Company as Educational
Director. He was recently promoted to
Commander in the U. S. Naval Reserves.
Address: 945 South Flower Street, Los
Angeles, California.

0 RoBeERT A. DEMENTI has’ been

awarded the advanced degree—master of
photography—from the Photographers As-
sociation of America. ‘The award was made
during the Association’s national conven-
tion recently held in Chicago. The degree
is given for academic studies and exhibit
awards. There are 196 masters throughout
the country. Also, the Royal Photographic
Society of Great Britain has awarded him
an “‘associateship in recognition of pro-
ficiency of a high order in photography.”
Associateships are designated by the use
of the letters, “ARPS.” He is vice-presi-
dent of Dementi Studios, Richmond,
Virginia.

4] PETE BARROW, JR., has opened of-

fices for the general practice of law at 504
Coal and Coke Building, Bluefield, West
Virginia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Jack L. REITER has been elected president
for 1954 of the Cincinnati Stock and Bond
Club.

GG A. Linwood HOLtToNn, Jr., is a

member of the newly formed partner-
ship for the general practice of law, under
the firm name of Eggleston and Holton,
with offices at 209 State & City Building,
Roanoke, Virginia.

G5 HENRY E. YounG was. elected

Mayor of the City of Norwalk, Ohio, on
November 3, and took office January 1,

1954:

GS BILLy S. HOLLAND has been made

4707th Defense Wing Staff Judge Advo-

cate at Otis Air Force Base, Falmouth,
Massachusetts. A native of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, he is a graduate of Virginia Military
Institute and received his LL.B. degree
from the Washington and Lee Law School.

Frep L. RusH is Commonwealths Attorney
of Buchanan County, Virginia. He is again
serving as Agent for his class. Address:
Courthouse Building, Grundy, Virginia.

WILLIAM F. REYNOLDS is Assistant Trust
Officer, ‘The United States National Bank
of Denver, Colorado.

ELMER H. FRENCH has been promoted to
sales representative for Monsanto Chem-
ical Company’s Plastic Division. He will
service Ultron vinyl film accounts out of
the division’s New York City sales office.
Before joining Monsanto he was _ associ-

ated with Firestone Plastic Company. Ad-
dress: 413 New Providence Road, Moun-
tainside, New Jersey.

$9 JoHN H. REEp, JR., has spent the

bulk of his time during 1953 for the
West Virginia ‘Turnpike Commission as
Assistant General Counsel. They are en-
gaged in constructing an eighty-eight mile
turnpike running North to South from
Charleston, West Virginia, to Princeton,
West Virginia. Other Washington and Lee
men who have been with the Commission
in Charleston are LEE M. KENNA, ’40,
General Counsel; RALPH H. SMITH, ’39,
Right-of-Way Attorney, and GRANT WILDE-
MAN, ’49, Right-of-Way Attorney. Wilde-
man left last September 1, for the West
Coast and additional studies of Tax Law,
and on October 15, Ralph Smith reentered
the private practice of law in Charleston.

GOGH HOHHHSHHHHHHHHHHSHHSHDHCHTHHOHSHHOHOHHOHSSHHOHHOSHSHHHSHHOHHHHOHOOHSOHOHOHSTHVOCEHOSSCOHOSCHOO8OROOCOLSD

Schumacher’s

BRAINCHILD

m AN OFFICE AWAY from the office is
the promise of Travel Talk, a new
idea which allows businessmen to
dictate in public places as con-
veniently as buying a package of
cigarettes.

The installation, unveiled at the
recent National Business Show in
New York, consists of a desk-size
booth with a built-in Dictaphone
Time-Master “5” dictating ma-
chine. Users insert a quarter in a
coin slot and out pops a Dictabelt
record (good for fifteen minutes of
dictation) with mailer-filer inserted
in an air mail stamped envelope.
A second coin slot and another
quarter activates the Dictaphone
machine for ten minutes of dictat-
ing. Three sides of the booth are
sound-proofed for convenient pri-
vacy. A comfortable chair com-
pletes the installation.

Although this newest wrinkle in
the fast growing list of products and
services for America’s busier than
ever traveling man has just been
introduced, more than 50 Travel
‘Talk booths are now in production.

MARCH 1954

Trial installations are currently in
operation at London, Ontario, and

Cleveland, Ohio, and users have
taken to the idea with great enthu-
siasm. Dictabelts are mailed to
home offices for listening or tran-
scribing. Or in the event that the
user does not own Dictaphone

equipment, transcribing is done
locally through the hotel.

Travel ‘Talk is the brainchild
of a recent Washington and Lee
alumnus, John Schumacher, ’53, of
During his last

Akron, Ohio.

year at college, he had occasion to
use dictating facilities while trav-
eling on a research assignment, and
it was then that the thought came
to him for coin-operated dictating
installations. After college, he
teamed up with William Sherwood
Howe, an executive of Willys-Over-
land and set up a factory and of-
fices in Akron, Ohio. ‘They will
soon be producing one hundred
booths per month. These will then
be ready for placement throughout
the United States and Canada.

 

SCHUMACHER—he made public dictation as convenient as buying a package of cigarettes

21

 

5 0 FREDERICK ‘THOMAS MOFFATT, JR.,

received the Bachelor of Divinity degree
from the School of Theology of the South-
ern Baptist Theological Seminary, Louis-
ville, Kentucky, at the mid-year Convo-
cation, January 26, 1954. Address: Route
No. 4, Frankfort, Kentucky.

SAMUEL SHAFER ODOM was ordained to
The Sacred Order of Priests on Monday,
January 25, 1954, at Christ Episcopal
Church, Pearisburg, Virginia, The Right
Reverend Henry Disbrow Phillips, D.D.,
Bishop of the Diocese of Southwest Vir-
ginia, officiated.

Jack A. PALMER has been promoted to
Assistant Editor of the Appalachian Elec-
tric Power Company’s employee news-
paper. He has been with Appalachian
since July, 1950, as feature writer in the
company’s public relations department.

CHARLES WILLIAM Pacey, II, has been
named lacrosse coach at the University of
Baltimore. Address: 202 East University
Parkway, Baltimore 10, Maryland.

STANFORD LEE FELLERS, JR., has opened an
office for the practice of law in the State
and City Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

CHRISTOPHER S. Moore has been elected As-
sistant Treasurer of Volunteer State Life
Insurance Company, Chattanooga, Ten-
nessee. Address: 203 Wautauga Lane, Chat-
tanooga, ‘Tennessee.

57 My tes M. JOHNSON is now Com-

pany Clerk, Company “B,” 10th Engineer
(C) Bn, grd Infantry Division, APO 468,
care of Postmaster, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia. He was married after completing
his work at George Washington Univer-
sity and was sent to Korea as an engineer.
He expects to enter the University of
Pennsylvania School of Social Work with
ihe fall term of 1954, upon his discharge
from the Army in September, 1954.

Ep Morris completed a year of study and
research toward his doctorate in clinical
psychology in the late summer of 1953 at
Stanford University. He received his mas-
ters degree in the summer of 1952 and
didn’t waste any time between that and
commencement of study for his Ph.D. He
plans to become a Child Psychotherapist,
when he has finished his thesis and disser-
tation. Address: 3158 Mission Street, San
Francisco, California.

B. L. CLARKE, JR., since graduation, has
joined the Navy, married, was stationed
in New York, and has now been trans-
ferred by the Bureau of Personnel in
Washington, to Trinidad, British West
Indies. Home address: 1210 Grant Avenue,
Charleston, West Virginia.

FRANK SIMMONS was discharged from the
Air Force last February. He planned to
enter the University of South Carolina
Law School last fall.

Birt Rosasco, HI, is manager of the

 

22

 

GIORDANI—a Silver Star for gallantry in action while serving on an outpost in Korea

branch mills at Milton, Florida, of Santa
Rosa Lumber Co., Pensacola, Florida.

Dick ‘TAYLOR, in May was working for the
New Statler Hotel in Los Angeles on an
Executive ‘Training set-up. Address: 926
Hillcroft Road, Glendale 7, California.

AL POWELL, writing in May, was in Korea
and gave his address: Lt. A. W. Powell, Jr.,
01890052, Btry. A 82nd AAA AW SP BN,
APO 248, care Postmaster, San Francisco,
California. Home address: RFD No. 3, Box
102, Salem, Virginia.

Dick PRUITT was married to Constance
King on April 17. Dick has been with All-
state Insurance Company since December,
1952. Address: 505 Blair Street, Anderson,
South Carolina.

Jim Roserts is in the wholesale drug
business with the Norfolk Division of the
Henry B. Gilpin Company. Address: 7509
Courtlandt Place, Norfolk 8, Virginia.

5 2 MARINE First LIEUTENANT PAUL R.

GIORDANI of 158 Washington Avenue, N.,
Vandergrift, Pennsylvania, was awarded
the Silver Star Medal by his Commanding
General, Major-General R. M. Pate, for
gallantry in action while serving on out-
post “East Berlin” during the fierce fight-
ing just prior to the truce. Receiving the
B.A. degree here in 1952, he was a mem-
ber of Delta Upsilon fraternity, and played
center on the Varsity football team four
years.

David Riotro is the new advertising
manager of Adirondack Enterprise, Sa-
ranac Lake, New York. Dave was born
in Passaic, New Jersey. After graduation
from Fork Union Military Academy in
Virginia, he spent two and a half years in
the Naval Reserve, serving in the Atlantic
Theater. He attended the School of Jour-
nalism of Washington and Lee, 1948-1950,
leaving on account of his health. He has
been with the Enterprise for eighteen
months, and for most of the past year has
been assistant advertising manager.

JAMes A. PARKER received the advanced
degree of Master of Science at Pennsyl-
vania State University, State College, Penn-
sylvania, on January 27, 1954. He holds
the B.S. and B.A. degrees from Washing-
ton and Lee.

ELitiotr W. EAves has completed advanced
training at the American Institute for
Foreign Trade, Thunderbird Field, Phoe-
nix, Arizona. Specializing in South Amer-
ica, Eaves has completed the school’s in-
tensive training course in preparaton for
a career in American business abroad. He
has been employed by the First National
Bank of Boston and will be assigned to
its foreign operations. Eaves served with
the United States Air Force as an Aero-
Medical Technician.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

1935

NorMAN S. FITZHUGH, JR., was married to
Betty Moulton on November 21, 1953, in
Charleston, West Virginia. Their new ad-
dress is: 1412 Virginia Street, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1937

HOWELL WATKINS ROBERTS, JR., Was mar-
ried to Nancy Elizabeth Harris on Jan-
uary 30, 1954.

1940

JACKSON GROVER AKIN, JR., was married
to Mary Margaret Lackey on November
25, 1953, in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

1943

GEORGE ROBERT ESHELMAN was married to
Mary Jane Pearson on November 28,
1953, in Decatur, [linois.

ARTHUR ‘THOMPSON, JR., Was married to
Isabel Jordan Gaylord on December 5,
1953, in Staten Island, New York.

1944

Dr. David HAMILTON SMITH was married
to Charlene Helen Fator on February 13,
1954, In Richmond, Virginia.

1945

Dr. JosEPH HUMPHRIES MAGEE was mar-
ried to Alice Elizabeth Agnor on De-
cember 26, 1953, in Lexington, Virginia.

1946

WILLARD HUMPHREY MILLER was married
to Mary Patricia Tuggle on January a2,
1954, in Wytheville, Virginia.

CHARLES ‘TAIT ‘TRUSSELL was married to
Woodley Ann Grizzard on December 27,
1953:

1949

Capt. WILLIAM WorTH GRAHAM, grd, was
married to Yvette LaVarre Ruddell on
February 2, 1954.

1950

CLAIRBONE WATTS Goocu, III, was mar-
ried to Cynthia Rodes Wade on January
2, 1954, in Westport, Connecticut.

HORACE BROOME KELTON was married to
Jane Mathes on January 27, 1954, in Ar-
lington, ‘Texas.

1951

WILLIAM F. O’NEIL was married to Mary
Elizabeth Hardy on February 20, 1954, in
Covington, Virginia.

MARCH 1954

1952

ALEXANDER BYRON MOHLER was married
to Ana Yolanda Cadaval on November 28,
1953, in Mexico City.

JosEpH B. YANITY was married to Joyce
Ann Gilham on January 9, 1954, in Athens,
Ohio.

CHARLES GABRIEL HUTZLER was married to
Eleanor Joyce Kann on November 25, 1953,
in Eccleston, Maryland.

AucusT R. BopEn, Jr., and Lila Dale Bar-
rett were married August 22, 1953.

1954

JOHN GEORGE CARGILL, JR., was married to
Mary Massie Lea on February 27, 1954,
in Washington, D.C.

 

1933

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM PATRICK COLEMAN
are the parents of a son, William Patrick,
Jv., born February 27, 1954.

1935

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SCHUHLE, JR., are
the parents of a third child, Carl Philip,
born November 24, 1953. Their other
children are son Billy, and daughter
Barbara. Bill, Sr., is teaching at Adrian
College, Adrian, Michigan.

1936

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Jones have adopted a
daughter, Sally Booker Jones, born July
10, 1953, who came to their home on No-
vember 20, 1953.

1937

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. WILBUR, Jr.,
have recently adopted a son, William Cut-
tino, III, born September 3, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., are the
parents of a son, Parke Shepherd Rouse,
III, born November 28, 1953, in Richmond,
Virginia.

1938

Mr. and Mrs. Ropert M. BASILE are the
parents of a daughter, Laura Lorraine,
born December 1, 1953.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. GERHART SCHOTT SUPPIGER,
JrR., are the parents of a son, Gerhart
Schott Suppiger, III, born August 15, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN T. SNYDER are the
parents of a daughter, Mary, born De-
cember 11, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. Cart EpwArD BURLESON are
the parents of a son Carl Edward, III,
born January 15, 1954.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs S. Parsons are the
parents of a son, John Edward, born
February 20, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. Roscor B. STEPHENSON, JR.,
are the parents of a son, born January
18, 1954, in Covington, Virgnia.

Mr. and Mrs. Paut G. GANas are the
parents of a son, Dean Paul, born Feb-
ruary 22, 1954.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. E. C. WADDINGTON, JR., are
the parents of a daughter, born December

225 1953:

Mr. and Mrs. JULIAN POLK STUART SMITH
are the parents of a son, Julian P. Stuart,
Jv., born January 29, 1954.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. Ropert A. HAYNES are the
parents of a daughter, Martha Haynes,
born November 14, 1953.

1946

Mr. and Mrs. W. ROBERT GAINES ‘are the
parents of a son, Frank Camp, born De-
cember 18, 1953.

1948

Dr. and Mrs. JAMES A. CRANFORD, JR., have
a new son, James A., III, born 1954.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. HENRY M. BARKER are the
parents of a son, Henry M., Jr., born No-
vember 10, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES D. FARRAR are the
parents of a second son, Duvall Scott
Farrar, born January 15, 1954.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. JACK CARPER are the par-
ents of a daughter, Lynn ‘Taylor, born.
March 2, 1954, in Lexington, Virginia.

Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN METCALF GAINES are
the parents of a son, Edwin Metcalf, Jr.
born January 11, 1954.

Mr. and Mrs. WALLACE E. WING are the
parents of a son, Wallace E. Wing, III,
born December 17, 1953.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. G. MEREDITH PERSINGER
are the parents of a son, George Meredith,
Jv., born February 21, 1954.

23

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM HowaArpD ADAMS are
the parents of a baby girl, Sarah Wood-
bury, born July 18, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOARDMAN are the
parents of a daughter, Marilyn Scott, born
December 20, 1953.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp B. CALECHMAN are
the parents of a son, James Alan, born

July 25, 1953.

 

1888

Dr. WILLIAM SpricG HAMILTON died Feb-
ruary 19, 1954, in Louisville, Kentucky.
Funeral services were at Stonewall Jack-
son Memorial Cemetery in Lexington, Vir-
ginia, in the burial lot of the Kappa Alpha
Order, of which Mr. Hamilton was former
knight commander.

1889

Dr. CHARLES 'TABB PEARCE died September
21, 1953. He had been active in the prac-
tice of medicine in Cincinnati, Ohio, for
over fifty years.

1890

Dr. Doucias S. ANDERSON died March 2,
1954, in a New York hospital, following
an operation. His home was in Ogunquit,
Maine. Dr. Anderson retired in 1936, after
being on the faculty of Tulane University
in New Orleans for 44 years. For 17 years
he was dean of the engineering school,
and for three years prior to his retirement
he was acting president of the university.

1898

ALBAN G. SNYDER died January 26, 1954.
Mr. Snyder was a native of Charleston,
West Virginia, but lived in Florida. He
had spent many years in overseas diplo-
matic service.

COLONEL HENRY W. ANDERSON, chairman
of the board of the Seaboard Air Line
Railroad Company, died at his home, 913
West Franklin Street, Richmond, Virginia,
on January 7, after an illness of several
months. At the time of his death he was
a member of the law firm of Hunton,
Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore. Dur-
ing his varied career, he served in the
office of the Attorney-General of the
United States, organized Balkan relief after
World War I, and was a member of the

24

Mexican Claims Commission. Col. Ander-
son was a candidate for the Republican
vice-presidential nomination in 1920, and
in 1921 was the Republican nominee for
Governor of Virginia.

1907

Frepd S. Hoyt died December 18, 1953, at
his home in Worcester, Massachusetts,
following a long illness.

1910

Emory LANDON, vice-president of Seaboard
Steel and Iron Corporation, Baltimore,
Maryland, died December 19, 1953.

1912

JOHN REID CUNNINGHAM died November
29, 1953. His home was in Harrisonburg,
Virginia.

1913

JupGE WILLIAM L. HocurE died December
13, 1953, at his home, 3762 Montevallo
Road, Birmingham, Alabama.

1914

Dr. JOHN W. Baytor, for many years a
member of the teaching staff of the Johns
Hopkins Medical School, died November
25, 1953, after a long illness.

1915

WILLIAM HENRY OAst, Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia, Civil and Police Justice and Judge
of the Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court, died December 27, 1953, in a Ports-
mouth hospital after an illness of several
weeks.

1917

ROBERT M. CAMPBELL died December 20,
1953- His home was in Marion, Virginia.

1919

FRANK Hays JAcoss, JR., died February
14, 1954, after a prolonged illness. His
home was in Bel Air, Maryland.

THOMAS WEsT GILLIAM, II, died March 7,
1954, following a heart attack at his home
in Lynchburg, Virginia.

1920

ELMORE ‘TURNER BETHEL died at his home
in Richmond, Virginia, February 24, 1954,
following a heart attack. While at Wash-
ington and Lee he was an outstanding
football player, having been Captain of
the team in 1919. He was picked as an All-
Southern tackle and also made the third
All-American team.

WILLIAM CARTWRIGHT LANE died January
5, 1954, following a heart attack in his
office at the State Roads Commission, Bal-
timore, Maryland.

JOHN BAXTER ATKINS, SR., president of
Highland Oil Co., and an officer of Atlas
Refining Co., was one of 12 persons killed
in the crash of an amphibious plane near
Shreveport, Louisiana, on January 10, 1954.
The accident happened to one of two
planes returning a group of prominent
businessmen from a duck hunt.

1924

THOMAS HENRY CLAY died October 12,
1953, following a heart attack. His home
was in Paris, Kentucky.

1926

ANDREW G. WOOLWINE died December 109,
1953. He was an Engineer with the Im-
perial ‘Tobacco Company, Montreal, Can-
ada. Interment was in Ceres, Virginia.

1931

FRED SHEPHERD NANNY Of Petersburg, Vir-
ginia, died January 12, 1954.

1935

DANIEL PENICK GHOLSON died February
24, 1954, at Stonewall Jackson Memorial
Hospital after an extended illness.

1940

Davin J. Isaty died November 28, 1953, at
his home in Marion, Ohio.

1942

WiLBuR B. Hacer has been presumed
drowned on January 10, 1954, in the
Ohio River near Owensboro, Kentucky.
He and a friend were duck hunting and
the body of his companion was found
lying across an overturned canoe, but
nothing has been learned about Hager.

1948

Lioyp RICHARD KUHN died February 14,
1954, of a heart attack. He had been prac-
ticing law in Hagerstown, Maryland. He
received his LL.B. degree here in 1948,
graduating magna cum laude, and was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

Jon RAYMOND RUGEL died at sea on No-
vember 27, 1953, Of a coronary throm-
bosis, on the steamship Excambion, be-
tween Barcelona and Gibraltar. He was
returning to this country for Christmas
vacation from the Near East.

1954

CLARENCE W. WHEELWRIGHT, Airman First-
Class, son of Mrs. Martha C. Thompson,
Beaverbrook Farm, Reisterstown, Mary-
land, was one of four Marylanders whose
names appeared on a list of 256 officers
and enlisted men whose status has been
changed by the Air Force from missing in
action in Korea to “missing and presumed
dead.”’

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOMETHING NEW!

A Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry.) A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TWO IMPORTANT ITEMS
€

YOUR CLASS—and every other class—has an important

date in June. You asked for another reunion, and there will be one.
The place: Lexington
The dates: June 10, 11, and 12

Big plans are being made. Now is the time to make your reservations.

Write: Reunion Committee
Box 862,

Lexington, Virginia

THE 1954 Atumni Fund is off to a fine start. You can help
_ it along by responding promptly to your Class Agent’s letter. And

remember, the goal this year is

“To double the Fund’s effectiveness to Washington and Lee”’

Your Class Agent, the Fund Council, and the University are count-

ing on you. Please don’t let them down.

 

 

 

 

 

 

