Mansion
Given for
resident’s

Home

Lee Was
ongwriter,

Too

WASHINGTON AND

LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Class Agents for 1958

1887-1907—Alumni Office

1908-A—Earle K. Paxton, Box 754, Lexington, Virginia

1908-L—Hiram M. Dow, P. O. Box 547, Roswell, New Mexico

1909-A—A. H. Chandler, 2000 Skyline Road, Ruxton 4, Md.

1909-L—Henry Stafford Caldwell, 424 W. Forsythe Street,
Jacksonville 2, Florida

1910-A—Rayford W. Alley, 423 Westwood Drive, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina

1910-L—Hugh R. Hawthorne, Room 4800, 122 E. 42nd Street,
New York 17, New York

1911-A—Henry C. McGavack, 35-55 80th Street,
Heights 72, Long Island, New York

1911-L—Roger M. Winborne, P. O. Box 754, Lenoir, N. C.

1912-A—J. J. Kelly, Jr., Box 202, Big Stone Gap, Virginia

1912-L—A. G. Lively, P.O. Box 205, Lebanon, Virginia

1913-A—The Reverend Harry S. Coffey, Memorial Methodist
Church, Floyd and Ninth Streets, Lynchburg, Va.

1913-L—T. R. Bandy, Box 189, Kingsport, Tennessee

1914-A—Col. Paul J. B. Murphy, ‘“Kolosandra,” College Park,
Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—John L. Hughes, Box 32, Benton, Arkansas

1915-A—W. W. Cash, Jr., Cashman Tri, Eagle Rock
(Botetourt County), Virginia

1915-L—Joseph W. Hodges, Box 249, Silver City, New Mexico

1916-A—-Wiley D. Forbus, M.D., Pax 3712, Duke University
Medical School, Durham, North Carolina

1916-L—-T. A. Myles, Box 126, Fayetteville, West Virginia

1917-A—W. Calvin Wells, III, P. O. Box 158, Jackson, Miss.

1917-L—Harry V. Campbell, Box 1513, Charleston, W. Va.

1918- —Allein Beall, Jr., P.O. Box 618, Helena, Arkansas

1919 —Irving M. Lynn, Box 411, Lynchburg, Virginia

1920-A-—Henry F. Madison, Jr., P. O. Box 1117, Monroe, La.

1920-L—Pinkney Grissom, 2300 Republic National Bank
Bldg., Dallas 1, Texas

1921-A—James H. Bryan, 2028 First Avenue, N., Birmingham
3, Alabama

1921-L—Carleton E. Jewett, 1500 West 41st Street, Richmond
25, Virginia

1922-A—W. A. Williams, P. O. Box 468, Nags Head, N. C.

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 North Irving Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia

1923-A—The Reverend R. G. Wickersham, Box 197, Fernan-
dina, Florida

1923-L—Barron O. Faulconer, 710 Central Ave.,
Kentucky

1924-A—Francis W. Plowman, 425 North Swarthmore
Avenue, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania

1924-L—-J. Hampton Price, Jr., Box 466, Leaksville, N. C.

1925-A—John T. McVay, 1404 Washington Boulevard, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia

1925-L—D. O. Mitchell, 401 Indiana Trust Bldg., Indianapo-
lis 4, Indiana

1926-A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., 2861 Leonis Boulevard,
Vernon 58, California

1926-L—Ralph Masinter, 803 State and City Bank Bldg,
Roanoke, Virginia

1927-A—Wilmot H. Kidd, Jr., 1128 West Avenue, Richmond
20, Virginia

1927-L—Charles T. Smith, P. O. Box 334, Keystone Heights
Florida

1928-A—Van Allen Hollomon, Majestic Theatre Building,
Dallas 1, Texas

1928-L—G. Oldham Clarke, 1112 Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville 2, Kentucky

1929-A—William B. Lott, Federal Trade Commission, 413
Masonic Temple Bldg., New Orleans, Louisiana

1929-L—James C. Wilbourn, Box 965, Meridian, Mississippi

1930-A—Frank O. Evans, Kidd Building, Milledgeville, Ga.

1930-L—M. W. Ewell, Masonic Building, Dyersburg,-Tenn.

1931-A—John H. Hardwick, care of Louisville Trust Com-

pany, Louisville, Kentucky

1931- L—Maniel M. Weinberg, 106 N. Court Street, Frederick,
Maryland

1932-A—Eugene P. Martin, Jr. 1125 Linden Avenue, Balti-
more 3, Maryland

1932-L—James D. Sparks, 521 Bernhardt Bldg., Monroe, La.

1933-A—Charles F. Suter, 429 Union Trust Building, Wash-
ington 5, D.C.

1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Bank of Shelbyville Building,
Shelbyville, Kentucky

Jackson

Lexington,

1934-A—William R. Schildknecht, M. J. Grove Lime Com-
pany, Lime Kiln, Maryland

1934-L—Thomas D. Anderson, P.O. Box 871, Houston 1,
‘Texas

1935-A—Allen M. Harrelson, Jr.,
shaw, Pennsylvania

1935-L—Edwin T. Coulbourn, Box 627 Suffolk, Virginia

1936-A—Richard T. Scully, One Grand Street, Hartford 6,
Connecticut

1936-L—John S. Beagle, 608 Genesee Bank Building, Flint 2,
Michigan

1937-A—Kenneth G. Dustin, 15 Sheridan Road, Wellesley
Hills, Massachusetts

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, care of Goldsmith’s, 123-137 South
Main Street, Memphis, Tennessee

1938-A—Gerald M. Lively, 8025 Dearborn Drive, Kansas City
15, Missouri

1938-L—Edward W. Hiserman, 710 Charleston National Bank
Bldg., Charleston 1, West Virginia

1939-A—Homer W. Weidmann, Box 308, Belleville, Illinois

1939-L—John D. Goodin, P. O. Box 457, Tohicon City, Tenn.

1940-A—Thomas E. Bruce, Jr., Scottsville, Virginia

1940-L—Edwin J. Foltz, 917 Black Rock Road, Gladwyne,
Pennsylvania

1941-A—Emil C. Rassman, III, 211 First National Bank Bldeg.,
Midland, Texas

1941-L—Charles F. Heiner, 112 Lake Lane, Glenbrook Hills,
Richmond 26, Virginia

1942-A—Sidney Isenberg, M.D., 710 Peachtree Street, N.E.,
Apt. 1022, Atlanta 8, Georgia

Frederick H. Pitzer, Jr., 10 Wadsworth Road, New

Hartford, New York

1942-L—James A. Pine, 24 W. Pennsylvania Avenue, Towson

2515 Middle Road, Glen-

4, Maryland

1943 —Corneal B. Myers, 221 Stuart Avenue, Lake Wales,
Florida

1944 —James P. Gilman, 118 Greenbrier Road, Spartanburg,
South Carolina

1945 —Walter E. Frye, 2865 Ben Lomond, Santa Barbara,
California

1946 —George B. Stott, 21 Patton Drive, Bloomfield, N. J.

1947 —Max H. Dennis, 3514 West Main Street, Wilmington,

Ohio

1948-A—William W. Burton, 120 Friendship Road, Drexel
Hill, Pennsylvania

1948-L—David B. Cofer, Jr., Box 325, College Station, Texas

1949-A—William H. Leedy, Suite 1200, 15 West Tenth Street,
Kansas City 5, Missouri

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 817 Frank Nelson Building,
Birmingham, Alabama

1950-A—James R. McDonald, 1206 Lake Falls Boad, Balti-
more, Maryland

1950-L—Rufus B. Hailey, Sevier Bank Building, Sevierville,
Tennessee

1951-A—Upton Beall, 203 Professional Building, Tyler, Texas

1951-L—Jack E. Greer, North Shore Point, Norfolk, Virginia

1952-A—Gideon N. Stieff, Jr., 108 Ridgewood Road, Baltimore
10, Maryland

1952-L—Joseph B. Yanity, Jr., 207 Security Bank Building,
Athens, Ohio

1953-A—The Reverend L. B. Ranson, Jr.,
town, Pennsylvania

1953- L—Edward L. Oast, Jr., 217 Winston Road, Portsmouth,
Virginia

1954-A—The Reverend David P. Comegys, Jr., 715 Kirkmon
Street, Lake Charles, Louisiana

1954-L—Lawrence C. Musgrove, P.O. Box 1868, Roanoke,
Virginia

1955-A—J. Hardin Marion, III, Phi Gamma Delta House, 112
Preston Street, Lexington, Virginia

1955-L—Armour T. Beckstrand, 1001 Cafritz Building, Wash-
ington, D. C

1956-A—Mark B. Davis, Jr., Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity
House, Lexington, Virginia

1956-L—Milton T. Herndon, 1416 15th Street, Huntington,
West Virginia

1957-A—Joseph C. Knakal, Jr., 24-A Hillside Terrace, Lex-
ington, Virginia

1957-L—Gavin G. Letts, 303 Evernia Street,
Beach, Florida

Route 1, Stewarts-

West Palm

A. Jones, °42, Reynolds

Appalachian—Homer
Arcade Bldg., Bristol, Virginia
Augusta-Rockingham—Richard W. Smith, ’41, In-
dustrial Loan Building, Staunton, Virginia.
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 46 Fifth St., N.W.
Baltimore—Robert S. Hoyt, ’39, 518 Chestnut
venue, Towson 4, Maryland
Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North 3rd
Street
Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr.,
‘34, United Carbon Building
Chattanooga—George U. Stephens, ’50, 904 Avon
Place
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, '28, Winnetka Trust
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois
Charlotte—Herbert Woodward, Jr., ’41, 3916 Shel-
ton Place
Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter, '41, 1020 Union Trust

Building

Cleveland—Roy D. Prentiss, ’44, 17605 Kinsman
0a

Danville—Richard L. Heard, ’44, 220 Robertson
Avenue

Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley, ’34, First

Federal Building, St. Petersburg
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building

Miami, Florida
Houston—Ted Riggs, ’38, 2000 First City National

Bank Building
Jacksonville—A. B. Conley, Jr., '48, 625 Hogan

Stree

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 15 West 10th
Street

Louisville—Ernest Wocdward, II, ’40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—James E. McCausland, '43, 1408
Northwood Circle

Mid-South—Harry Wellford, '46, Commerce Title
Building, Memphis, Tennessee

"Al, - Carlton

New York—Steven E. Campbell,
Avenue, Port Washington, New Yor
°30, Jahncke

New_ Orleans—Herbert Jahncke,
Service
New _ River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, '13
Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk—Bernard Levin, °42, 7407 Cortlandt
°31, 401 Re-

Place
Texas—John M. Stemmons,

North
public Bank Building, Dallas
Northwest Louisiana—Richard Eglin, ’44, Shreve-
3406

por
Peninsula—Vernon T. Strickler, Jr., ’38,
Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia
Philadelphia—William L. Leopold, ’39, 183 Pelham
oa

’

Road
Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern

Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr., '41, 702

Frick Building
Richmond—-L. Gordon Miller, Jr., ’45, 8912 Nor-

wick Road, Moreland Farms
Roanoke—Richard T. Edwards, ’33, Colonial Bank
Building
San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., °43, 407-09

South Texas Building
St. Louis—Andrew H. Baur, ’37, 50 Picardy Lane,

Clayton 24, Missouri
Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, '31, Box 1672, Huntington,
West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., '38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland
n, D. C.—Arthur qporendon Smith, Jr.,

Washingto
41, 4313 You Street, N.W.

Fall 1957
Vol. XXXII

No. 4
Published quarterly by Aiumni, Incorporated
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Managing Editor
TINA C. JEFFREY

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAxTON DaAvIs, JR.
FRANK J. GILLIAM
DONALD E. SMITH

Harry K. (Cy) YOuNG
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC

President
ERNEST WOODWARD II, 1940
Vice-President

Davip D. JOHNSON, 1921

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Treasurer
FRANK C. BROOKs, 1946

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MarTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., 1937
ERNEST Woopwaprb, II, 1940
Davin D. JOHNSON, 1921
FRANK C. BROOKS, 1946
PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935
BEN W. DITTO, 1943

THe Cover: this beautiful old Southern mansion,
“Col Alto,” has been given to Washington and Lee

for a president’s home. See story on page 14.

 

Homecoming football game on November 2 brought forth colorful decorations on all
frat houses. This one, at Pi Kappa Phi, featured a train with wheels that moved,
brushing aside football players from Wabash college, the Generals’ opponent. Actually,
Wabash dropped Washington and Lee, 34 to 13 instead, in the fracas on Wilson field.

University News

 

DR. MARCELLUS H. STOW, head of
the geology department for the
past twenty years, died at his home
on November 27, 1957. He had
been in poor health for the past
several months.

One of the South’s outstanding
geologists, he was geological con-
sultant to the director of the State
Department of Conservation and
Development, and a member of
the Virginia State Advisory Coun-
cil on the Virginia Economy. He
was a past president of the Vir-
ginia Academy of Science, and had
served as deputy director of the
War Production Board, and later
the Civilian Production Adminis-

2

tration. He had been a member of
the board of directors of the South-
ern Research Institute. He was
listed in ‘““Who’s Who in America.”

Dr. Stow joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1927, and _ be-
came Robinson professor in 1937,
and had been a professor on the
Thomas Ball Foundation since
1947.

He was stricken with a heart at-
tack August 12, while doing geo-
logical field work near Jamestown.
and was in serious condition all
fall.

PROFESSOR O. W. RIEGEL, director
of the Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation, is doing research in
Europe this year under a Fulbright
grant. He was granted a one-year

leave of absence from his duties as
head of the Department of Jour-
nalism and Communications.

Leon S. Dure, Jr., of Keswick, a
former managing editor of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, is visit-
ing instructor of journalism. Rod
Gelatt, of Des Moines, Iowa, is a
new fulltime instructor in journal-
ism and communications.

In Europe, Professor Reigel will
be attached to the National Educa-
tion Institute in Paris. His work
will be mainly in Paris, with some
research planned in London and
Geneva. He was accompanied by his
wite and four of his children.

WASHINGTON AND LEE’S Director of
Development for the past four
years, Donald E. Smith, will leave
next month to become Director of
University Relations at the Uni-
versity of Rochester, in Rochester,
New York.

Mr. Smith came here in Septem-
ber, 1953, from Worcester Polytech-
nic Institute, where he was secre-
tary-treasurer of the alumni associa-
tion. Here, he was given the re-
sponsibility of determining the
over-all needs of Washington and
Lee on a longtime basis. ‘Through
faculty committees, he and _ his
group established a long-range de-
velopment program, which includ-
ed physical growth, increase in fac-
ulty salaries, increase in available
scholarships, and other factors.
Working closely with alumni sec-
retary Harry K. Young, he helped
reorganize Washington and Lee’s
alumni giving program, resulting
in more than a hundred-percent in-
crease in contributions to the an-
nual Alumni Fund.

Mr. Smith also organized a Par-
ents’ Program, now in its third year,
which was judged the best conduct-
ed at any American college in 1956
by the American Alumni Council.
He has supervised the publication
of “Washington and Lee Notes,” a
newsletter to parents and friends
of the college, also judged the best

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

such publication of any American
college in 1957 by the American
Alumni Council. He and his staff
have laid the groundwork for the
capital fund campaign, which will
probably be launched in 1958-59.

“We are greatly indebted to Mr.
Smith for excellent work in formu-
lating and launching a most im-
portant program,” President Fran-
cis P. Gaines declared. “We accept
his resignation with regret and as-
sure him that our best wishes will
always be with him and his charm-
ing wife.”

DEAN FRANK J. GILLIAM, with his
wife, had a reunion during the sum-
mer with a Christian leader of the
Belgian Congo, trained by the Gil-
liams more than go years ago.

In 1920, Mr. Gilliam went to the
Congo as the first missionary for
educational purposes sent by the
Southern Presbyterian church. In
organizing a corps of teachers, he
began his work with young native
boys, whom he trained to instruct

others as teachers. ‘The most out-
standing boy in that group was
Kanyinda, 14 years of age, who
stayed as Mr. Gilliam’s pupil for
two years.

When the Gilliams returned to
America, Kanyinda became head
teacher and continued the work of
the mission. ‘Today he is considered
one of the outstanding leaders of
the Christian church in that part
of Africa.

Last summer he and his wife,
Ngoya, were chosen by the Board
of Missions to come to America.
The Gilliams joined them at Mon-
treat, North Carolina, for a re-
union. The conversation was main-
ly in the native language, Baluba,
which Dean Gilliam was still able
to use after 30 years without prac-
tice. And although the Gilliams
had corresponded through the years
with their former pupil, there was
much to talk about and many bits
of news to tell. Kanyinda had
named one of his ten children for
the Gilliam’s son, Fontaine.

 

G A SENIOR STUDENT'S dream of op-
erating his own automobile came
true this fall, despite the fact that
he cannot use his arms or shoulders,
due to an attack of polio in 1945.

When John M. Larson of Wash-
ington, D. C., returned to Lexing-
ton in September, he arrived in his
own car, one that he had driven
3,000 miles from California using
only his feet and knees to manipu-
late the controls.

He earned his driver’s permit
after only six days of instruction
in operating the specially-adapted
vehicle, one of only seventeen in
the United States. He steers the
auto by means of a large circular
metal plate which is connected to
the car’s power steering mechanism.
A metal “boot” is attached to the
plate, and by inserting his left foot
into the boot, John maintains per-
fect control of the car.

He operates the accelerator and
brake pedal normally with his right

 

 

The Delts’ Homecoming decoration, left, won first place in the annual contest sponsored by the Alumni Association. It showed a huge

giant (WABASH) on the porch roof, about to have the boom lowered on him by a General. Apropos of the times, the Pi Kappa Alpha
erected a Sputnik on their house, right. The Phi Kaps caught the spirit of the satellite, too, only they called theirs the Wabashnik.

FALL 1957

3

fee covers water, electricity, and
gas. Henry L. Ravenhorst, who has
managed the housing units since
the university had them erected in
1946, says the addition was neces-
sitated by an increase in Lexing-
ton’s water rates. In 1953, a simi-
lar increase in utility rates had
forced the university to raise rents
to $30 from $25, a figure which had
prevailed for seven years.

The units are located in two-
separate developments. Davidson
Park, on the eastern side of Lexing-
ton, is occupied primarily by fac-
ulty and staff members. Hillside
Terrace, near Lexington High
School, houses only student fam-
ilies. Sixty-eight of the seventy

 

About 800 parents and guests attended the third annual Parents’ Weekend November apartinents available are currently
8-10, with a busy schedule of speeches, conferences, tours, and social events. Among the in use. [The buildings are anchored
parents attending were Dr. and Mrs. NORMAN VINCENT PEALE of New York City, whose
son, JOHN is a senior. In the photo above are, left to right, JOHN, DR. PEALE, DR. Epwarp |
Myers, professor of philosophy who spent last year studying in Germany, and MRs. PEALE. tainted from surplus government

installations after World War II.

on concrete pilings, and were ob-

foot, but the gear selector has been
moved close to the floorboard so
he can manipulate it with his right
foot too. A downward-extending
metal arm from the turn indicator
permits John to work this with his
left knee. Lights and windshield
wiper switches are equipped with
oversize knobs for Larson, who still
has some use of his right hand.

His car is a stock model, adapted
by Kope, Incorporated, of Parlier,
California, for $495. The car’s pro-
totype was designed by a California
man who also lost the use of his
arms through polio. John read of
the invention in a magazine and he
and his mother went to California
last summer to get his car.

John excels in fields other than
driving. He holds the coveted Vin-
cent L. Bradford scholarship and he
achieved the distinction of being
elected to Phi Beta Kappa as a
junior.

8 RENT FOR THE Washington and
Lee “pre-fabs,”” the veterans’ hous-
ing development, was raised this
fall from $30 to $39, still a low price

 

Part of the large crowd which attended Parents’ Weekend is shown here, after a meet-
ing in Lee chapel, at which college officials reported on a variety of subjects. Parents,
as today’s rents go. ‘The monthly sons, and faculty also enjoyed a buffet luncheon in Doremus gymnasium the same day.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

$2,000, in honor of Frontis W. Sher-
rill, °28, president of the Sherrill
Oil Company of Pensacola, Florida,
a Pure Oil affiliate.

The gift is the second such con-
tribution received from the com-
pany. Last year, a $2,000 gift honor-
ed alumnus Walter B. Bach, ‘28,
secretary-treasurer of the Sherrill
company. The foundation instruc-
ted the university to use the funds
‘in whatever way it will be most
useful.” Part of the foundation’s
program is making gifts to colleges
whose alumni have made outstand-
ing contributions to Pure Oil Com-

Registration day, although rainy, saw 1,074 men go through the lines. This represents an pany progress. The Sherrill Oil
increase of 15 over last year’s initial enrollment. Left, students collect some of the forms . :

no oe | oe Company is a contributor to foun-
to be filled out during the registering process, and right, university treasurer EARL S. ;
MATTINGLY, the man at the end of the line, was on hand to greet each student personally, dation funds.

 

 

m FOR THE SECOND consecutive year,
gifts to Washington and Lee total-
ed more than $1,000,000. During
the fiscal year ended June 30, gifts
from all sources totaled $1,006.-
266.99, of which $789,261.52 went
into permanent endowment and
the balance of $217,005.47 went for
current operations, President Fran-
cis P. Gaines said.

Washington and Lee’s total en-
dowment is now $7,922,930, ac-
cording to the year-end auditor’s
report. Total assets for the univer-
sity are listed at $12,851,022, as of
June 30.

In 1955-56, gifts totaled $1,224,-
004.36, including a single gift of
$250,000 from an anonymous bene-
factor for scholarship aid. Although
the previous year’s giving was larg-
er, the 1956-57 total came from
4,178 individual contributors, as
compared with 3,909 In 1955-56.

Largest single contribution re-
ceived during the year was $326,500
from the Ford Foundation. On one November Sunday night, with nothing much to do, a couple of Washington and
Lee students ascended the statue of George Washington and decided that the recent
white paint job the University had done on the statue needed a bit of additional art

. I dh d work. So with a bucket of black paint, they re-decorated old George. Next day, univer-
tion, Incorporated, has presente sity workmen scaled the statue to make George a gleaming white again and gave

Washington and Lee with a eift of everybody a good topic of conversation for at least a week.

 

= THE PURE OIL COMPANY Founda-

FALL 1957 5

 

Cadet commander of the ROTC
this year is Colonel George Sage
Lyons, Mobile, Alabama. His exec-
utive officer is Lieutenant Colonel

John Arnold Groobey, Norfolk,
Virginia; and battalion command-
ers are Lieutenant Colonel Albert

Steves, [V, San Antonio, Texas, and
Lieutenant Colonel Lewis G. John,
Cortland, New York.

 

m A BELATED BUT distinguished ath-
letic honor has come to Alumni Sec-
retary Harry K. “Cy” Young, ’17,
the man considered the greatest
athlete in the university’s history.

Cy was notified in November
that he had been selected by the
Helms Athletic Foundation on its
ten-man All-American basketball
team for 1917. Washington and
Lee’s team that year went undefeat-
ed in thirteen games, and Cy was its
leader in the scoring department,
with 161 of the team’s 409 points.

Cy won sixteen varsity letters
while at Washington and Lee from
1913 until 1917. He played four
years of football, basketball, base-
ball, and track, and he was team
captain in each sport, a feat un-
equalled in the Generals’ athletic
history.

He later coached the Washington
and Lee basketball teams from 1933
until 1939, winning two Southern
Conference championships, in 1934
and 1937, and two runner-up finish-
es in 1935 and 1936. Two of his
best players during these years,
Norman Iler, ’37, and Bob Spes-
sard, 39, also are members of Helms
Athletic Foundation All-American
teams. Iler is listed on the ten-man
squad for 1936, and Spessard for
1937:

The Helms Foundation recently
completed a compilation of basket-

6

 

Washington and Lee’s champion Moot Court team is composed of the above students,

left to right, PArTRicK SULLIVAN, Lorton, Virginia; NORMAN RozTTGER, Green Camp,

Ohio; advisor RoBERT McCuLLoucnu, Murfreesboro, Tennessee; and CHARLES Gay, Hale-
site, New York. They will enter the national finals in New York this month.

ball national champion teams, All-
America teams, players of the year,
all-time team, and Hall of Fame se-
lections from 1901 to 1957. Selec-
tions were based on exhaustive
studies of team and_ individual
records for each period.

 

Moot

@ WASHINGTON AND LEE’S
Court team defeated Virginia in
the final round to win the cham-
pionship of Region Six in the Na-
tional Moot Court competition at
Duke University in November. The
team now goes to New York for
the national final rounds, with its
first opponent the University of
Pennsylvania.

‘The Generals’ brief in the region-
al was cited as “‘best entered.” Be-
sides Virginia, the team downed
Wake Forest and Richmond law
school squads. Student chairman is
Bob McCullough, a senior. Alter-
nate members of the team, who
helped write the brief, are inter-
mediates Dick Anderson, Joe Kna-
kal, and James Stump.

w THE ANNUAL TUCKER _ lectures
scheduled for April 18 and 19, will
feature John J. McCloy as speaker.
Mr. McCloy is chairman of the
board of Chase Manhattan Bank
and former United States High
Commissioner for Germany, and
has had a distinguished career in
law, business and government work.
The annual spring meeting of the
Law School Association will be held
the same weekend as the Tucker
Lectures.

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Law Re-
view is under new faculty and stu-
dent supervision this year. Wilfred
J. Ritz is serving as faculty editor
during the absence of Dr. Theodore
A. Smedley, on a one-year leave of
absence at Vanderbilt University.
Associate professor James W. H.
Stewart has replaced E. M. Faris,
Jr., as faculty business manager.

New student editor-in-chief this
semester is Robert G. McCullough,
a senior. ‘Thomas D. Wilkerson is
student business manager for the
year. Student associate editors are
Lynn F. Lummus, J. Hardin Mar-
ion, and Norman C. Roettger.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

« IT WAS A LONG, hard season for
Washington and _ Lee’s football
team this year, and for some half-
dozen seniors winding up _ three
years of varsity play, it must seem
as though there’s no other kind.
The Generals came close in their
first two contests, losing by bare
one-point margins, but in the last
six games the defeats were decisive.

For new coach Lee McLaughlin
losing came hard, for before coming
to Washington and Lee he was one
of the winningest coaches in Vir-
ginia high school and prep circles
at Alexandria’s Episcopal High
School. But for all the disappoint-
ments on the 1957 scoreboard, the
Generals did display the best offen-
sive football the non-subsidized pro-
gram has produced. They lacked
the beef in the line to halt their
opponents’ running games, but
when Washington and Lee had the
ball there was always a possibility
of crowd-pleasing aerial fireworks.

The big man for the Generals,
and the first genuine “star” in

 

New basketball coach Louis MILLER talks
over 757-58 prospects with co-captains
FRANK Hoss, left and Dom Ftora, right.

three years, was sophomore quarter-
back Jack Groner, whose 853 yards
passing ranks as the third best sea-
son total in school gridiron history.
He passed 125 times and completed
58, five for touchdowns.

Briefly, the season went this way:
an outplayed Centre team edged

Washington and Lee, 7-6, in the
Wilson Field opener, and the next

week Johns Hopkins squeaked out
a 13-12 victory at Baltimore. Flu
hit the squad at this point, and
the weakened Generals went down,
33-6, at Randolph-Macon. Back
home the next Saturday, Witten-
berg College was too fast to be
outscored, although W&L looked
good offensively in losing, 61-26.

Wabash College, won, 34-13, at
Lexington. Against Sewanee, Wash-
ington and Lee helped dedicate the
Tigers’ new stadium with a 33-14
Sewanee victory. At Hampden-Syd-
ney, the then-undefeated ‘Tigers
were too much, 32-18, and in the
season finale at home, the Generals
lost to Washington University 47-0.

McLaughlin, who never lost faith,
said, “Wait until next year!”

In basketball, there’ll be no wait-
ing until next year. Another new
mentor, Louis F. “Weenie” Miller,
has a healthy nucleus of lettermen
around which to build the Gener-
als’ cage forces this season, and al-
though it doesn’t seem likely he’ll
match last year’s 20-7 record, he'll
probably come up with a winner.

 

At left, Washington and Lee fullback Tuvor Hay picks up six yards and a first down for the Generals against Centre College in

the season’s opening game. Centre quarterback RON ALEXANDER caught him on the 31-yard line. In the picture at right, General half-

back CLARK LEA takes Jack Groner’s pass for the touchdown against Centre, while the Colonels’ Britt KakLin trails and Washington
and Lee’s captain Jim Lewis, looks on. The extra point try missed, however, and the Generals lost, 7-6.

FALL 1957 ”

General Robert E. Lee

Was Songwriter, ‘Too

ENERAL ROBERT E. LEE, who gained fame in other

fields, was also the composer of a frivolous song,
according to an old manuscript sent recently to Wash-
ington and Lee.

The tune, “What Do They Do at the Springs,” was
reportedly written and set to music by General Lee
while he was president of Washington college, and the
date is thought to be about 1866. The song referred
to White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, which was
then, and is now, a gathering place for society.

According to old data, a copy of General Lee’s
lighthearted song was given by him to a friend of the
Lee family, Miss Willie Stoner of Rockbridge Baths.
Her entire family learned the words and music, and
sang it often, but down through the years, the original
composition was lost. A younger sister of Miss Stoner’s,
Mrs. Letcher Stoner Shafer of High Bridge, Virginia,
wrote the words of it from memory after she was 73
years old, and her brother, Mr. John Stoner, sang it
slowly while a friend wrote down the music. This is
the copy we have now.

‘The words are as follows:

WHAT DO THEY DO AT THE SPRINGS?

“Pray, what do they do at the Springs,
‘The question is easy to ask,
But to answer it fully, my dear,
Is rather a difficult task.
But yet in a bantering way
The magpie or mockingbird sings—
I’ll venture a bit of a song
To tell what they do at the Springs.

‘“Inprimis, my dear, they drink
‘Ihe water so sparkling and clear,
Yet the flavor is none the best,
And the odor’s exceedingly queer.
The fluid is mingled you know,
With wholesome medicinal things—
So the drink and they drink and drink,
And that’s what they do at the Springs.

“At mornings they early do gather

At the wells and speak of the news.
‘The men talk of girls and of horses

And the ladies of bonnets and shoes.
You hear them as they busily prattle

Of scandal and various things,
O! they tattle, they tattle, they tattle

And that’s what they do at the Springs.

‘They stroll in the beautiful walks
Or talk in the shade of the trees,

And many a word there is whispered
‘That’s never told to the breeze.

And hands are commingled with hands
Despite the conjugal rings,

Then they flirt and they flirt and they flirt,
And that’s what they do at the Springs.

“But just sharply and keen,
You'll discover wherever there are men
Some who are fond of a bottle of whiskey
And will get right drunk now and then.
Wherever you find a young lady
And older ones too, do such things,
Why, they’ll eat and they’ll flirt, and they'll tattle,
In the city or country or Springs.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  

ee ce ee
© eee -

PRAY WHAT! DO THEY 0a RPTHE SPMINCS , "WHE QuastIOw 7s EASY POASK

UNTO ANSWER IT Fell¥, MYDEAR Ts RATHER ABIFSEI CULT PASH,

 

  
 

YETIN ABANTERING Way, THE MPtePTE OR MOCEKTIAw BIRD STARE

LL VEN TWRE A BITOFA SONG, TOTELL WHAM THEY Do AP TE SPAINGE

¢« No. 2. 12 Staves (Octavo)

FALL 1957

Opportunities for Spiritual Growth

Abound at

Washington and Lee

PPORTUNITIES FOR THE spiritual
() growth and development of
Christian character exist at Wash-
ington and Lee University which
are unequalled on any American
campus of comparable size, accord-
ing to the Rev. Richard L. Gelwick,
director of religious activities here.

Not all of Washington and Lee’s
students are taking advantage of
these opportunities, admits the
Reverend Mr. Gelwick, but there
is reason to believe the seeds of a
campus revival of religious interest
are present.

Nowhere in American higher ed-
ucation, to Mr. Gelwick’s know-
ledge, is such a relatively small stu-
dent bady at a non-denominational
college being served by so many per-
sons whose prime concern is the
spiritual welfare of the students.

Ministering to Washington and
Lee’s 1000-plus students are eight
ordained pastors, seven of whom
have as their sole ministry their
work with students.

Campus religious activity now
takes place on three distinct but
related levels—in courses offered by
the Department of Religion and
Philosophy, in a volunteer student
Christian association, and in the
various student programs of Lex-
ington’s churches.

10

By FRANK PARSONS
Director of Publicity

In the role played by the com-
munity’s Protestant churches is
found another unique aspect of
Washington and Lee’s religious sit-
uation. Four churches—Episcopal,
Presbyterian, Methodist, and Bap-
tist—employ full-time ministers to
students of Washington and Lee
and Virginia Military Institute.
‘The pastor of the nearby Bethany
Lutheran Church devotes a large
portion of his ministry to student
work.

Although operating separate stu-
dent programs, these ministers have
joined together with Mr. Gelwick
in a united fellowship which has
its foundation in a Christian spirit
of cooperation.

Included in this fellowship of
ministers are the Rev. Ralph W.
Smith, Jr., chaplain to Episcopal
students; the Rev. George M. Cool-
ey, Presbyterian minister to stu-
dents; the Rev. Thomas E. Weir,
director of the Methodist Church’s
Wesley Foundation; the Rev. Leroy
P. Richardson, Baptist minister to
students; the Rev. John H. Ben-
netch, pastor to the Lutheran Stu-
dent Association; and Reverend
Gelwick, a Methodist.

All came to Lexington at ap-
proximately the same time, some
two years ago, and all are relatively
young men, some on their first as-

signment since graduation from
theological school. Several have in-
teresting backgrounds—Mr. Cooley
was a German prisoner of war for
11 months during World War II;
Mr. Weir spent seven years as a
naval officer before deciding to
enter the ministry.

‘Together they are providing “‘a
united witness, without any degree
of competition.” ‘The fact that one
minister may have more students
participating actively than another
doesn’t bother the fellowship.

“Our main concern is that they
are taking part somewhere,” they
Say.

All express concern over what
constitutes a good university, and
what is the best atmosphere in
which a young man can become
educated. ‘They are anxious to help
college officials in any way they can.

“We try to create the realization
that the church as a whole is in-
terested in the campus as a whole,”
explains the Reverend Mr. Gel-
wick. “And we try to correct the
impression some students have that
we are outside the ministry, or have
left it. This is our ministry.”

Within their separate church
programs, most ministers conduct
special Sunday evening programs
for students, including suppers and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ore tesne enna inrcnieccesnentereeeitis

Lexington ministers COOLEY, SMITH, WEIR, and RICHARDSON, join the REV. RICHARD LEE GELWICK in a round-table discussion of re-
ligious needs and potentials of Washington and Lee students.

student-led worship. All encourage
their Washington and Lee students
to play an active role in the Uni-
versity Christian Association.

This organization is the bedrock
foundation for all volunteer stu-
dent religious participation at non-
sectarian Washington and Lee. Ev-
ery student holds membership as a
“sustaining member,” but its 150
“active members” are the life-blood
of the association.

Its activities are many and var-
ied. One of the most important and
far-reaching in its effect is the an-
nual sponsorship of the University
Religious Conference. During the
four-day span of the conference last
year, over 40 separate addresses
and discussion groups were attend-
ed by a total of 1,000 students.
Prominent speakers are brought to
the campus for the event, and their
provocative presentation of varying
conference themes effect lasting re-
sults.

“We reach out and get many stu-
dents we never are in contact with

FALL 1957

’

the rest of the year,’

erend Mr. Gelwick.
Other association work involves

a year-long continuing series of dis-

says the Rev-

cussion groups in which Mr. Gel-
wick says students and faculty “deal
with religious questions in irrelig-
ious garb.’ Past topics have in-
cluded ““The Christian and the So-
cial Mill,” and ‘““The University, A
Mental Maze.” Faculty members are
guest discussion leaders, and issues
are met from all viewpoints.

A unique feature of the associa-
tion’s program is the conduct of
‘Mountain Missions,” a service be-
gun many years ago in which Wash-
ington and Lee students act as
supply ministers, Sunday School
teachers, organists, and choir di-
rectors for nearby rural churches of
different denomination.

Four different churches are sup-
plied in some capacity each Sunday,
and students travel 20 miles to a
remote church near the Blue Ridge
Parkway for one of their Sunday
School programs.

In community service, the asso-
ciation sponsors two boys clubs and
conducts a recreational program
for both white and colored, with
character and leadership develop-
ment as part of the goals. Other
students help distribute welfare
department food to destitute fam-
ilies and assist needy persons in
home repairs, painting, and other
odd jobs.

Within the university, association
members conduct weekly Univer-
sity religious services at Lee Chapel
on Thursdays at noon. Another
committee plans and conducts spe-
cial religious services, including the
traditional pre-Christmas candle-
light service. Another group holds
nightly vespers in the freshman
dormitory.

Members seek to encourage still
more active participation, while a
special committee tries to improve
student-faculty relations through
informal get-togethers.

Besides Mr. Gelwick, two other

(Continued on page 15)

11

In 1947, when the first group of married
students moved into Davidson Park’s
pre-fabricated ex-army housing units,
the buildings looked like the top photo.
In 1957, the lower picture, the units still
look the same, except with several coats
of paint over the original framework.
Diapers still flap in the breeze, and an in-
credible number of small children and
dogs seem to inhabit the area. A few TV
antennas have been added, and a few
more fences to house children and dogs.

 

Students used to be thrilled to ride in a buggy. By 1939, a few of the wealthiest matriculates owned automobiles. In 1957 a few

Ba feta
Saree
BS Han th bets

oe

oi
see
a

Sa

 

‘Changed!

 

Twenty-three years can cause some changes in a college president’s
face. Left, DR. Francis P. GAINES as he appeared in 1934, four years
after becoming head of Washington and Lee University. Right, a
recent picture, showing a few more gray hairs, and a few more
wrinkles but more ability, more wisdom, and more understanding.

the students did Nov have cars, and the parking problem was acute.
)

 

In 1917, an athlete named “Cy” YOUNG was captain of
all sports at Washington and Lee, a unique record. In
7957, that Young man announced he would retire next
June after twenty-eight years as alumni secretary and
coach at the University. His prowess in sports is now
confined exclusively to golf, and he has won many
championships, including the Virginia State Senior title,

 

 

Part of the beautiful eight acres on which “Col Alto” is situated may be seen here. Beautiful old boxwood, an old brick curving
wall, and spacious green lawns surround the 150-year-old brick home built by a former Virginia governor, JAMES MCDOWELL.

150-Year-Old Mansion Given

For President’s Home

N THE FUTURE, Washington and
I Lee University presidents will
make their home in an_ historic
Lexington mansion, “Col Alto,”
located on the eastern outskirts of
town.

The seventeen-room home and
the surrounding estate have been
given to the school by the present
owner, Mrs. Rosa ‘Tucker Mason.
Under terms of the deed, she will
have lifetime occupancy of the
home.

“The University is extremely
grateful to Mrs. Mason for this gen-
erous gift,’ President Francis P.
Gaines has declared. “The gift is
most fitting because of the long
and honorable connection of Mrs.
Mason’s family with this institu-
tion.

14

“Both of her grandfathers, the
Honorable John Randolph ‘Tucker
and Colonel William Preston John-
ston, were members of this faculty,
as dean of the law school and pro-
fessor of history, respectively. Her
father, the Honorable Harry St.
George Tucker, succeeded his fath-
er as dean of the law school, and
served one year as acting president
of the University. Her brother,
the late John Randolph ‘Tucker,
was at the time of his recent death
an honored member of the Uni-
versity’s Board of ‘Trustees,’ Dr.
Gaines added. |

Included in the gift are the
mansion, a log cabin used as a resi-
dence, garages, and eight acres of
land. The main house is a two story
solid brick building, which contains

besides the seventeen rooms, eight
baths and a full basement.

The deed provides that Wash-
ington and Lee is to use the prop-
erty as a residence for its president,
or if that becomes impracticable,
for some other non-commercial pur-
pose of the University. It is pro-
vided that in any event, the land
and main building are to be kept
intact, except for necessary repairs
or additions.

All household furnishings and
furniture in “Col Alto” not other-
wise disposed of by Mrs. Mason in
her will are to become the property
of Washington and Lee.

By the terms of the agreement,
if the University finds in the future
it is unable to carry out its provis-
ions, it will convey title of the prop-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

erty to the next of kin of the donor,
then living.

‘The name of “Col Alto,” given
to the estate when the house was
built in 1827 by James McDowell,
will be retained, President Gaines
said.

He added that the present home
of Washington and Lee’s presidents,
built by General Robert E. Lee dur-
ing his tenure of office, and used
by every president since 1870, will
be used for some University pur-
pose, depending upon the college’s
needs at the time.

‘The land on which “Col Alto” is
located was a portion of a grant
given in 1739 to Benjamin Borden
by Virginia Governor William
Gooch. ‘The land passed into the
hands of the McDowell family some
time before 1810.

James McDowell, who built the
house, became governor of Vir-
ginia in 1843. The estate continued
to be owned by the McDowell fam-
ily until 1860. From that date, the
property changed hands a number
of times until Harry St. George
Tucker purchased it in 1898. Upon
his death, Mrs. Mason became
owner in 1932, buying the interest
of the other heirs.

Considerable improvements on
the original structure were made by
Mr. ‘Tucker and Mrs. Mason.

“Col Alto’s” wooded grounds are
impressive, and the house and
grounds have been featured annual-
ly on garden club tours of the Shen-
andoah area.

At least three Washington and
Lee fraternities are close neighbors
to the estate—Lambda Chi Alpha,
Zeta Beta ‘Tau, and Pi Epsilon Phi.
The faculty apartments and the
Davidson Park pre-fabricated hous-
ing units, occupied by faculty and
some married students, are within
one block of the president’s future
home. Another neighbor, on the
south, is the new Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, a modern facility costing
almost $2,000,0000, built on land
purchased from Mrs. Mason.

FALL 1957

SPIRITUAL GROWTH

(Continued from page 11)

Washington and Lee faculty mem-
bers, both Presbyterian ministers,
are closest to the work of the Uni-
versity Christian association. ‘They
are Dr. David W. Sprunt, professor
of religion, and Dr. Paul C. Hayner,
associate professor of religion and
philosophy.

Aside from the work of ministers,
student leaders, and professors of
religion, the Reverend Mr. Gel-
wick and other ministers agree there
is another force at work at Wash-
ington and Lee which is having a
profound effect on the Christian at-
titudes of students. It is the teach-
ing of a number of other faculty
members, whose fields of instruc-
tion may be far from religious as-
sociations, but who nevertheless
encourage their students in ways
which result in a greater Christian
faith.

Mr. Cooley cites four examples
of Washington and Lee students
who were inspired to enter the
ministry because of truths unveiled

to them by faculty Christian lay
leaders.

In such accounts the Reverend
Mr. Smith finds evidence of a “re-
fining fire’ at work among students
at Washington and Lee. It takes
a man to stand out against the pres-
sures of conformity and irreligion
prevelant at many colleges today,
he and his colleagues agree.

‘They admit that these pressures
exist at Washington and Lee, but
they believe they are on the right
road toward overcoming them.
‘They are being welcomed as fre-
quent visitors in fraternity houses,
and they find an active and in-
quiring interest in religious mat-
ters on the part of an encouraging
number of students.

The Reverend Mr. Gelwick
points out that active participation
in the University Christian Asso-
ciation by fifteen percent of the
student body is a healthy sign. ‘Ten
percent is normal, he says.

Mr. Gelwick adds that the min-
isterial leadership is available to
handle 1co percent participation.
He hopes some day to have it.

 

Dat: ioc ccccccccccccccceccccccccececcevaces

 

NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS

CeO oH HSE TESCO OHO HOHE HRETEEE HEE TS OHFT HEHE SHOHEETOLE SOC OHOE HEBER ESER
SSCS CEES OHHOSHEHOEHESHHEHHEHTHETETHEOSHETEESESE ROCHE HES EETECHEOEHOEOS

Boece eee eee sees eeer reese seeoeeeeeesr eres ase eer ere cee esses seer ee EF EOTET OEE EEE EOE ETOH EHO OEE RE HO TERE HOHE

CC CSET HOC SH SE FHS OHH TO EHO THE OC HERES HEC OH HES HL BS KES O SHH HEE TERETE EE

CRO CREE ee EEE HE ESTER EHH OSE OHH HEE HED EEE EE EEE ETE EDS HOC EE ROT DOOD EOE TEED EDO OOOH OR OH ORE EE LEEDS

‘Town, State

News about yourself for Class Notes? ......0...0cccccccccceeseesseeteesseesseeseens

Serer eroosesr sess eres e essere ee essere ees eer es ene Serer eer ere ere SOE EEE HEE REO EE EEE HES EOE EEE OREO EEOC OEE CE EE EEO SOL C ES C®

Cee meer ere rere sere oes esre rer sseser esses etereeseereerereseeeer eee renee EH oe ee HEED EEE ER ERE EEE EEE EOE CE OE ESOS OR OL ODES CCC C Oe

 

 

15

The Appalachian chapter held a dinner meeting in Kingsport,

 

Chapter News

ST. LOUIS

A dinner meeting at Old Warson
Country Club in St. Louis, Missou-
ri, got the re-activated chapter off
to a good start on August 20, 1957.
Honored guests were seven boys
from the St. Louis area who en-
tered Washington and Lee as fresh-
men this year.

New officers of the group are as
follows: president, Andrew’ H.
Baur, Jr., °37; vice-president, John
L. Patterson, ‘21; and _ secretary-
treasurer, John Isaacs, ITI, ’53.

% ¥ *

RICHMOND

About one hundred alumni and
wives attended a dinner meeting of
the Richmond chapter at the Com-
monwealth Club on November 12,
1957. Speakers were President Fran-
cis P. Gaines and alumni secretary
H. K. Young. Presiding was Gor-
don Miller, Jr., 45.

Noting the announced retirement
next June of Cy Young, the chap-
ter presented him with a scroll of
appreciation for his services to
Washington and Lee University
and its alumni.

16

BALTIMORE

President Francis P. Gaines and
Alumni Secretary H. K. Young were
speakers on November 16, 1957, at
the dinner-dance of the Baltimore
chapter. About 75 persons attended
the meeting at L’Hirondelle Coun-
try Club.

‘The chapter presented a sterling
silver cigarette box to “Cy” Young,
who will retire next June as alumni
secretary. Engraved on the top
was this message, ““To a grand old
General, Cy Young, for many years
of loyal and devoted service. Balti-
more Alumni Chapter.

* * *

HOUSTON

An enthusiastic crowd of ap-
proximately 100 alumni, wives, stu-
dents, their parents and dates, and
friends gathered for a cocktail par-
ty and dinner on September 4, 1957,
at the River Oak Country Club in
Houston.

Ben Ditto, ’42, acting president,
presided. The Rev. Herbert A. Mil-
ler, formerly minister to students at
Washington and Lee, gave the in-
vocation. Bob Davis, ’30, chairman

 

Tennessee, on September 21. “Doc” Frick was the main speaker.

of the nominating committee pre-
sented a slate of officers, unami-
mously elected for the coming year:
Ted Riggs, ’38, president; Nelson
Steenland, °42, vice-president; and
Dean Guy, ‘54, secretary and treas-
urer.

Dr. Walter A. Flick of the Uni-
versity was presented by John Ran-
dolph, ‘29, and Ben Ditto. John,
well-known author of books about
Texas, presented Dr. Flick with
a “passport to Texas” and his Tex-
as Citizenship papers as well as a
copy of Texas Brags. Ben topped off
the welcome by giving him a West-
ern hat. Dr. Flick gave a penetrat-
ing analysis of the University at
mid-century, pointing out its hopes
and problems of the present and
the future. His talk was lightened
by the inimitable Flick witticisms.

* * *

TIDEWATER

Fifty alumni of the Tidewater
Virginia area attended the chap-
ter meeting November 14, 1957, at
Norfolk Country Club. Speakers
were Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of
Students, and J. Arnold Groobey of
Norfolk, president of the Wash-
ington and Lee student body.

Bernard Levin, ’41, president,
presided at the meeting.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

J. Y.. McCanp_ess, ’27, is manager of the

Syracuse, New York district sales office of

Babcock and Wilcox company’s tubular

products division. He has been with the
same company since 1937.

19 Dr. SAMUEL A. ANDERSON, JR., iS

still practicing pediatrics in Richmond,
Virginia. He is the father of three chil-
dren, a. son, who 18,a-Lt... j.¢.) in the
Navy; a daughter, who was graduated last
June from Smith College; and a daughter
who is a junior at St. Catherines School
in Richmond.

2 0 Of seventeen recently-appointed
judges in Los Angeles, California, two are
graduates of the Washington and Lee law
school. One is Emi GUMPERT, appointed
by Governor Goodwin Knight to the Los
_Los Angeles County Superior Court. He
formerly practiced law in Stockton before
moving to Southern California. A past
president of the State Bar Association, he
previously served eight months on the
Superior Court to round out the unex-
pired term of a retired judge. Emil has
been a chancellor of the American College
of Trial Lawyers. ‘The other Washington
and Lee alumnus appointed as judge is

FALL 1957

WILLIAM M. MartTIN, ’42, who will preside
over a municipal court.

24 JouHN F. HeNpdon, a big man in

the parking business in Birmingham, Ala-
bama, is listed in the tenth international
edition of “Who’s Who in Commerce and
Industry.” He is the first member of the
parking industry to receive this recogni-
tion. Mr. Hendon, a former member of
the Alumni Board of Trustees, is presi-
dent of nine parking corporations, and
organizer of a parking proprietorship
which is operating in several cities in
the South. Parking operations of his
various companies now include 110 fa-
cilities in sixteen Southern cities. Mr.

Hendon is also a director and past presi-
dent of the National Parking Association.

2 JOHN STRICKLER received a nomi-

nation by President Eisenhower for an-
other four-year term as United States
attorney for the Western district of Vir-
ginia. He has been in office since July 16,
1953. He makes his home in Roanoke.

G. IT. Davis has retired and last summer,
he completed a new home in Rancho
Santa Fe, California. His address there is
P. O. Box 1201.

28 PINKY Bacnu, of Pensacola, Florida,

was a visitor to the campus on October 2,
1957, on his way to New York City.

JoHN S. HANCKEL is the new vice-presi-
dent of Pennsylvania Power and Light
Company’s Harrisburg division. He started
with the company in 1935, and has re-
ceived steady promotions since that time.
For the past year, he has been the com-
pany’s director of business sales.

3 0 A new book by Vircit CARRING-

TON (PAT) JONES came off the presses on
November 18, “Eight Hours Before Rich-
mond.” Published by Henry Holt and

KENNETH CARTRIGHT PATTY, ’20,
is the new Attorney General of Vir-
ginia. He assumed office on Septem-
ber 16, 1957, succeeding J. Lindsay
Almond, who resigned to run for
Governor of Virginia.

Mr. Patty has been Assistant At-

 

torney General for more than
fourteen years. His first term was
from December 1, 1937, until he re-
signed in December, 1951. He was
again appointed First Assistant At-
torney General in October, 1954.

During his career, he practiced
law at Bluefield, Virginia, from
1919 until 1933. He has also served
as counsel for the Home Owners’
Loan Corporation. He is a former
chairman of the Democratic County
Committee of ‘Tazewell, Virginia,
and a former mayor of Bluefield.
He is past president of the Virginia
Society of Sons of the American
Revolution. He will serve as Attor-
ney General until the newly-elected
Democrat takes office.

He is a member of Pi Kappa AI-
pha, Phi Alpha Delta, and the Ma-
sons. Married to the former Miss
Ruth Lacy of Halifax County, Vir-
ginia, he has one daughter and one
grandchild. His home is at 3510
Brook Road, Richmond, Virginia.

17

 

Company, the book tells of one of the
most unusual major raids of the Civil War,
an attempt to release Union prisoners
held captive at Richmond, Virginia. The
raid was planned and led by Federal
General Judson Kilpatrick, one of the
most colorful field officers in the Union
Army.

Pat’s book, “Grey Ghosts and Rebel
Raiders,” is the subject of a new thirty-
nine week television series this winter
on the Columbia Broadcasting System.
The half-hour show is called, “The Gray
Ghost,’ and centers around the Confed-
erate guerilla band led by Rebel Colonel
John S. Mosby. ‘The program appears on
more than 100 TV stations weekly, and
Pat acted as historical advisor while the
series was being filmed. This is the first
Civil War film series on television. Pat
was the recipient last year of the Civil
War Round Table Award for his book
on Mosby.

3 2 DONALD S. HOsTETTER, Chief of the
FBI bureau in Chicago since 1954, is now
agent in charge of the Seattle, Washing-
ton, office.

33 CHARLES W. KAUFMAN has been ap-

pointed director of research for the Na-
tional Dairy Products Corporation. He has
been a vice-president and director of re-
search for Kraft Foods, a division of Na-
tional Dairy. In his new position, he wll
coordinate the research activities of all
divisions of the corporation.

JAMES Lorb, JR., is now deputy secretary
of state in Maine. Prior to his appoint-
ment in July, he was recorder of West-
brook Municipal Court in Augusta, Maine,
and had practiced law there.

Dr. JoHN A. WoMELDORF has accepted a
call to become pastor of Faith Presbyter-
ian Church in Greensboro, North Caro-
lina. He had previously served as pastor
of Westminster Presbyterian Church in
Waynesboro, Virginia.

34 CHARLES COLLIER is operating a

Harvey Price has three sons, aged ten,
seven and three, and he says he hopes
some day they will be Washington and
Lee men. Harvey is still in the automobile
business in Decatur, Alabama.

35 Dr. C. G. SAUERBRUN has been an

osteopathic physician in Orlando, Florida,
for the past fourteen years. His address
is 620 North Orange Avenue.

3 6 James M. Waite moved last year
from Huntsville, Alabama, to Roanoke,
Virginia, where he is connected with the
W. W. Boxley Company at Boxley Quar-
ries.

3) CHARLES DUDLEY WITHERS 1S prin-

cipal officer, Consul General, at the Amer-
ican Consulate in Nairobi, Kenya.

James K. BUTLER is now Regional Man-
ager in South America for Panagra (Pan
American-Grace Airways). He has been
with the company since 1939, and has
served in Peru, Bolivia, and Argentina.
He and his wife and three children,

 

James Murfree, 14; Lucy Edelin, 9; and
Margaret, 6, are living in Lima, Peru.

CHARLES K. HAukKe, as of September 1,
1957, has joined Ralph S. Pehrson to
merge their management counsultant, tax,
and accounting practices under the firm
name of Hauke and Pehrson, Certified
Public Accountants, 1133 Penobscot Build-
ing, Detroit, Michigan.

38 Dr. Harry M. Puitrot has been

named vice-president of the University
of Florida at Gainesville, and took office on
September 1 of this year. He was dean of
religious life at Stephens College in Co-
lumbia, Missouri, prior to his appointment
in Florida. He was director of religious
activities at Washington and Lee for two
years after his graduation in 1938, and
served in the Navy Chaplain’s Corps dur-
ing World War II. From 1946 until 1952,
he was associate professor of religion at
the University of Florida.

3 9 WILLIAM KING SELF is a new mem-

ber of the board of directors of the South-
ern Bell Telephone Company. He is
president, also, of five Mississippi com-

chain of fabric stores in Virginia and
North Carolina, with headquarters in Sal-
isbury, North Carolina, where his whole-
sale business is also located. He sells prin-
cipally to jobbers throughout the South
and to exporters in New York.

Great Britain’s Queen Elizabeth was in good company when she visited Williamsburg

and Jamestown, Virginia, in October. Showing her the sights were, left, LEwis MCMURRAN,

36, and right, Virginia’s Governor ‘THOMAS B. STANLEY. LEWIS has headed the Jamestown

350th Anniversary executive committee during its most successful celebration at the site

of the first permanent English settlement. Queen Elizabeth seemed very impressed with
what she saw, a tribute, no doubt, to Lewis’ guided tour.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

panies, the Riverside Oil Mill, River-
side Chemical Company, Riverside Ferti-
lizer Company, Tupelo Oil Mill, and
the Pontotoc Oil Mill. He is vice-presi-
dent and director of the Citizens Bank and
Trust company at Marks, Mississippi,
where he lives. He is also on the board
of directors of the Mississippi Cotton-
seed Processors Association and the Na-
tional Soybean Association, and is a dele-
gate member of the National Cotton
Council.

FRANK B. O'CONNOR has been appointed
general superintendent of the machine
shop, pattern shop, and foundry at Gen-
eral Dynamics Corporation’s Electric Boat
Division in Groton, Connecticut. He has
more than 19 years experience with the
submarine shipyard.

Dr. JOHN MArvINE Moore is a surgeon
in the high mountains of Eastern Nevada,
and is assistant chief surgeon of Steptoe
Valley Hospital, and Chief of Staff of the
White Pine County Hospital. His address
is: Steptoe Valley Clinic, East Ely, Ne-
vada.

THOMAS W. CuHristopHEeR of Emory Uni-
versity in Georgia, is now addressed as
Doctor. He was awarded his doctorate in
philosophy last June from New York
University.

4] J. R. McCOoNnNELL is sales manager
of the newly-created Abrasive Division,
Pangborn Corporation, leading manufac-
tuerers of blast-cleaning and dust collect-

WILLIAM B. VAN Buren, III, ’44, has been
appointed legal counsel to Merck, Sharp
and Dohme Division of Merck and Com-
pany, with headquarters in Philadelphia.
Before joining Merck in 1955, he was
with the law firm of Spence and Hotchkiss.

FALL 19547

 

 

NORFLEET R. ‘TURNER, 51, has been pro-
moted from assistant cashier to assistant
vice-president of the First National Bank
of Memphis, Tennessee. He has been as-
sociated with the bank for six years.

ing equipment. He is located in Hagers-
town, Maryland. |

WILLIAM J. McLEop was awarded his mas-
ter of laws degree from New York Univer-
sity last summer.

4G? ‘THOMAS O. FLEMING is new staff

attorney for the Atomic Energy Com-
mission’s Oak Ridge Operations. He joined
the AEC in November, 1953, as staff at-
torney, after having served for five years
with the United States Department of
Justice.

Evan A. Curetss is still practicing law as a
partner in the firm of Gordon, Feinblatt
and Rothman. Since last January, he has
been serving as president and member of
the Church Council of the Greek Ortho-
dox Church of the Annuciation in Balti-
more, Maryland.

KeriTH W. BLINN has been promoted to as-
sociate counsel general for the Conti-
nental Oil Company in Houston, ‘Texas.
He was formerly an attorney for Conoco’s
headquarters legal staff, serving there since
1952. Previously, he had taught law for
six years at the University of North Da-
kota.

WitttAM M. Martin has been appointed
by Governor Knight as Municipal Court
judge in Los Angeles, California. He as-
sumed his new job in Septembmer.

43 PAUL E. SANDERS returned last sum-
mer from a trip around the world, selling
Hotpoint appliances. He visited Guam,

 

Manila, ‘Tokyo, Hong Kong, Saigon,
Phnon Penh, Bangkok, Signapore, Co-
lumbo, Karachi, Bahrain Islands, Kuwait,
Beirut, and Paris, and said he met a lot of
wonderful people. He thought the Far
East was a most interesting and promis-
ing territory.

JAMES W. WHEATER is still coaching foot-
ball and baseball at Hawthorne High
school in Hawthorne, New Jersey. He is
the father of three children, two girls and
a boy.

f 5 JACK GONZALES is now an informa-

tion officer in the Public Relations Bu-
reau of the Virginia State Ports Author-
ity, Norfolk, Virginia. Prior to his ap-
pointment, he served as news editor of
WTAR-TV in Norfolk. He and Mrs.
Gonzales and their four children live at
6101 Bells Court.

ROBERT EDWARD JACKSON, former United
Press correspondent in London, bureau
manager in Rome, and special feature
writer in New York, has joined the New
York staff of Time Magazine as a con-
tributing editor and writer in the foreign
news section. Jackson and his family re-
turned to New York from Europe in
October, 1956, after a seven-year stay. Be-
fore moving to Time, Jackson wrote spe-
cial series for the UP on the  super-
highway network in the U.S., the Com-
munist party today, the Salk vaccine situ-
ation and the St. Lawrence Seaway. He
also filled speaking engagements for the
U.P. in Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Connec-
ticut, and I[linois. Home address: 647
James Street, Pelham Manor, New York.

 

DANIEL TD. DICKENSON, JR., 754, of Dan-
ville, Virginia, is now pastor of the Poplar
Hill and Ben Salem Churches in Rock-
bridge county. He is a 1957 graduate of
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

1g

 

46 Frep S. HoLity was recently re-

cently re-elected secretary of the Southern

District Council, American Newspaper
Guild, AFL-CIO. He is also president of
Hampton Roads Newspaper Guild, Local

219.

4/ Rospert B. McNett, formerly on

the news staff of the Richmond News
Leader, is now executive manager of the
Virginia Bankers’ Association’s Public Re-
lations Department. Bob is married and
the father of two children. He lives at
6007 Ellis Avenue in Richmond, Virginia.

Tue Rev. L. Roper SHAMHART became
an associate last August at the Church of
the Heavenly Rest, 2 East goth Street, New
York City.

48 WILLIAM EARLE TUCKER has_ be-

come a member of the firm of Gibbons
and Gibbons, attorneys, in Tampa, Flor-
ida. From now on, the company is known
as Gibbons, Gibbons, and Tucker, with
offices in the First National Bank Build-
ing.

RicHarp W. Lowery is claim manager of
the San Antonio, Texas, office of an insur-
ance company, which serves fifty-four
counties in south ‘Texas.

DoNaALD E. CAMPBELL and his wife, Eunice,
have recently purchased The House of
Sweden, a specialty shop of Scandinavian
gifts and decorative objects, located in
Carmel, California. ‘They are the parents
of two children, a boy, six, and a girl,
four and a half.

WILLARD H. Harr is now publicity super-
visor for North American Van Lines, Inc.
He and his wife, and five-year-old Deb-
orah live at 4109 Hoagland Avenue, Fort
Wayne, Indiana. For the past nine years,
he served as office manager for Loomis
Advertising Company and the General
Telephone Directory Company.

W. Sperry Lee and JAMEs S. ‘TAYLOR, ’50,
are now members of the law firm of Adair,
Ulmer, Murchison, Kenty and Ashby, with
offices in Washington, D.C. and Jackson-
ville, Florida. Other Washington and Lee
men in the same firm are HERMAN ULMER,
15, and JOHN W. BALL, ’32.

G9 THe Rev. JAMES 'T. MAGRUDER is a

missionary in Takamatsu City, Japan.
He said he had reread “Lee’s Lieutenants”
recently and declared, “The vision and

20

courage of General Lee in his efforts to
rebuild a broken country through the
training and character-building of young
men was impressed upon me in a new
sense, and calls us all to our responsibility
for the present.” He continued, “even
though five years have passed since I left
the States, my memories and training at
Washington and Lee are daily tools and
companions.”

Horace L. Smirn, III, is director of pur-
chasing for the Standard Paper Manufac-
turing Company in Richmond, Virginia.
He has three children, two boys and a
girl. Address: 4402 Kingcrest Parkway.

JAmeEs O'GRADY, at 33:years of age, is be-
lieved to be the youngest shopping center
boss in the whole nation. He is general
manager of a _ forty-million-dollar, 206-
acre colossus located in Paramus, New
Jersey. It contains a concentration of stores
doing a $250,000,000 business per year.
Jim is married and the father of five

children. He lives at 212 Midland Avenue,
Montclair, New Jersey.

WILLIAM KINNAIRD is advertising manager
for Glenmore Distillers Company’s im-
ported scotches, King’s Ransom and House
of Lords, as well as Glenmore’s Yellow-
stone division.

WILLIAM H. Leppy was awarded his mas-
ter’s degree from New York University
last summer.

5 Dr. JOHN S. CHAPMAN is resident in

internal medicine at the State University
of Iowa Hospital in Iowa City, Iowa. He
has two children, Cathy, and John Ste-
phen, Jr.

EDWIN METCALF GAINES is associate pro-
fessor of history and assistant to the
president for development at Converse
College for women, in Spartanburg, South
Carolina.

 

RosBerT P. SMITH, JR., “54, Was
named the ‘‘Graduate of the Year

1957" by Phi Delta Phi legal fra-
ternity, when he was graduated
from the University of Florida Law
School last June.

Bob was admitted to the practice
of law in October, after successfully
passing the Florida bar examina-
tions, and is now associated with
the firm of Bedell and Bedell, 110
West Forsyth Street, Jacksonville,
Florida.

During his three years in law
school, Bob served in a number of

student offices. He was captain of
the school’s Moot Court team in
national competition; he was chair-
man of the John Marshall Student
Bar Association Moot Court Com-
mittee for two years. He served as
editor-in-chief of the University of
Florida Law Review; and he was
elected to the Order of the Coif. He
received the Lopez Award, given an-
nually to the student writing the
best note or comment for the Law
Review; and was co-recipient of the
J. H. Miller Award for the senior
who contributed most to the wel-
fare of the College of Law. He had
a scholarship average of 3.42 on a
4.0 scale, second highest in his class.

At Washington and Lee, he was
president of Omicron Delta Kappa,
president of the junior class, and
president of his fraternity, Delta
Tau Delta. _ fo Ok

The immediate past president of
the Florida bar said: ‘“‘I have known
literally thousands of law students
and young lawyers throughout the
country....and I have never met
one who, I was convinced, had the
outstanding capacity, legal mind,
and promise of Bob Smith. He will,
it is my sincerest judgment, become
a great lawyer.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ANDREW J. GALLAGHER is head of the fin-
ishing section, product converting de-
partment, Marcus Hook Plant, Film Di-
vision of the American Viscose Corpor-
ation. He joined the plant in 1955 as an
assistant foreman, and his new respon-
sibilities will include all functions relat-
ing to slitting, sheeting, and packaging
of cellophane products. He is married
and has two children.

5 1 ROBERT E. GLENN is now associated
with the law firm of Eggleston and Holton,
State and City Building, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

J. ALAN Cross, JR., is an agent for State
Farm Insurance Company in Homestead,
Florida. His second daughter, Rebecca
Ann, was born on May 1, 1957.

Davip C. KERR was awarded his bachelor
of laws degree last June from New York
University.

GEORGE M. PERSINGER has joined the firm
of the College Town Shop in Lexington
as co-owner. He has been in the men’s
apparel business for four years in Lex-
ington.

ANDREW W. GOTTSCHALL, JR., has been
with the National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews Inc., for the past year, as
Associate Director. ‘This summer he was
assigned Associate Director of Rutgers Six-
Week Workshop in Human Relations. His
home address is: 8 Southgate Avenue,
Murray Hill, New Jersey.

JAMES W. RoBeErTS, JR., is Sales manager for

Minister of the Collierstown Presbyterian
church near Lexington is the REV. HORACE
Douty, °54. He was graduated last June

from Union Theological Seminary in

Richmond, Virginia

FALL 1957

 

the Henry B. Gilpin Company, Wholesale
Druggists, Norfolk, Virginia.

52 Henry M. Hicks, Jr., won his

law degree from New York University
last June.

Hucu C. Newton is new staff assistant for
the information services at Westinghouse
Electric Corporation’s Bettis Atomic Power
Divison. He was formerly director of pub-
licity at Carnegie ‘Tech. He and Char-
lotte live in Apartment 12, 1741 Park-
line Drive, Pittsburgh 27, Pennsylvania.

JoHN Weir Witicoxon, III, was awarded
a master of arts degree by the University
of Minnesota, at graduation exercises last
August.

JoHN QUINN IMHOLTE was awarded _ his
master of arts degree from the Univer-
sity of Minnesota last June 15.

BENNO FORMAN is teaching a course in
creative photography at the Fine Arts
Center in Roanoke, Virginia, this fall.

 

This winsome miss is DELLA BEL BLAKE,
new daughter of WILLIAM D. BLAKE, ’55,
and Mrs. BLAKE, who was baptized in

Lake Charles, Louisiana, by the Rev.
Davip CoMEGys, JR., °54, curate of the
Church of the Good Shepherd there. The
baby’s parents were home on leave from
the Panama Canal Zone, where Bill is
putting in time with Uncle Sam’s Army.

53 IsHAM MALLE SHEFFIELD, III, was

awarded a master’s degree in business
administration by Harvard on June 13,

1957>

5 4 Harry F. MALZEKE is a law student

at George Washington University and ex-
pects to graduate in June, 1958. He is a
law clerk for Hamel, Park and Saunders
in Washington, D.C. Married in 1955, he
is the father of one daughter, sixteen
months old.

Ltr. GEORGE SHEFTALL, executive officer
of the 76th Transportation Company in
Orleans, France, was on hand with 4o
of his enlisted men to perform in the

 

CHARLES L. CLAUNCH, JR., 56, received his

commission as a Navy Ensign on June 28,

1957. He has been taking primary flight
training at Pensacola, Florida.

filming of a motion picture, “Kings Go
Forth,” made by a Hollywood company in
Nice, France, during the month of Sep-
tember, 1957.

PauL MAsLANsKky won a_ Root-Tilden
scholarship to the New York University
School of Law, and began three years of
study this fall. ‘The scholarship is valued
at $6,900. He was one of twenty students
from all parts of the nation who received
such a scholarship.

THomas R. WALL, III, was awarded his
master of science degree last summer by
New York University.

PETER REESE DOYLE was ordained at
Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal church
in Lexington during August, by the Right
Rev. William M. Marmion, Bishop of the
Diocese of Southwestern Virginia. The
Rev. Doyle was graduated from Seabury-
Western ‘Thelogical Seminary in Evanston,
Illinois, last June. He and Mrs. Doyle are
now located in Altavista, Virginia.

HENRY AsHBy ‘TURNER was awarded his
master of arts degree in history on June
18, 1957, by Princeton University.

55 FRANCIS OSBURNE SCHAETER, JR., re-

turned home this fall from Army duty
in Orleans, France.

The Harvard Law School of Business
Administration awarded a master’s degree
last June to JOHN’ WADE STACKHOUSE.

5 6 ALAN R. MIXON is now qualified as
a carrier pilot in the United States Navy.
He is presently undergoing advanced
training in combat type aircraft at the

21

 

Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Texas,
and holds the rank of Ensign.

EDWARD MANntT Hoop, Jr., was awarded
the master of arts degree last June from
the University of Minnesota.

57 Dick Fortson had a big day on

September 10, 1957. He received notice
that he had passed the Texas Bar exami-
nation, and two hours later, he became
the father of an eight-pound baby boy.
Several days later he was sworn in by
Judge Charles Long, ’32, of the 134th Dis-
trict Court of Dallas, ‘Texas. He is now
with the law firm of Leachman, Gardere,
Akin and Porter, and his home address
is 7323 Marquette Street, Dallas. Dick is
working on an LL.M. degree at Southern
Methodist University, taking taxation
courses.

5 & WILLIAM P. CHILDs is in the Navy.

He had a nice tour of duty in Hawaii last
year for eight months, and spent the sum-
mer in Bainbridge, Maryland, at the
naval station there.

 

1892

Jupcrk DuNcAN LAWRENCE GRONER, former
chief judge of the United States Court of
Appeals in Washington died July 17, 1957,
in Washington, D. C. He specialized in ad-
miralty law. He began his government
service in 1910, when he was United States
District Attorney for the Eastern District
of Virginia for three years, during which
time he set forth in one case the supreme
power of Congress over navigable waters.
He was appointed judge of the United
States District Court in Norfolk in 1921
and served there for ten years, until he be-
came associate justice of the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals. He was one
of a group which overhauled the outdated
U. S. Judicial Code. He served on the
Court of Appeals until his retirement in
1948, at which time he had become chief
judge. Shortly after he left the bench, he

22

estimated he had heard some 2,250 cases as
chief judge. He continued to accept bench
assignments in special cases for a number
of years after his retirement, and one of
these cases was the Tideland oil case. A
champion of free enterprise, Judge Groner
was a strong beliver in the states dis-
charging their legal responsibilities and
not permtting the federal government to
usurp them. He was a delegate to five
National Republican Conventions between
1904 and 1920. Survivors include his wid-
ow, two sons, seven grandchildren, and
eight great-grandchildren.

1902

Dr. CHARLES HOUSTON YouNG of Phila-
delphia died on May 26, 1957.

1906

CLAUDE P. Licnt died August 30, 1957. He
made his home in Parkersburg, West Vir-
ginia.

WALTER HANNA DuntaAp died July 7,
1957, in Washingon, D.C. He was buried
in Lexington

1908

Dr. StTEwAarRT McBrybe died on July 10,
1957, at his home in Arlington, Virginia.
He was born in the rectory of the Robert
E. Lee Episcopal Church in Lexington,
son of the Rev. and Mrs. R. J. McBryde.
He was the youngest of five brothers, all
of whom attended Washington and Lee
and were members of the same fraternity,
Phi Delta Theta. He was graduated in
1912 from the Medical College of Virginia,
and last May, he attended the forty-fifth
class reunion in Richmond. During his
medical career, he cared for hundreds of
Northern Virginia residents for three de-
cades. He has also served as president of
Physician’s Hospital in Warrenton, Vir-

 

Jupce D. L. GRONER

 

Dr. STEWART MCBRYDE

ginia and for about twenty years, he was
a Southern Railway surgeon. Since 1925,
Dr. McBryde had maintained his office
in Manassas, Virginia. He always kept his
interest in his alma mater, and was a
faithful attendant for years at all Home-
coming football games. Survivors include
his widow, a son, a stepson and. step-
daughter, and two grandchildren. He is
buried in Old Hollywood cemetery in
Richmond in a plot given before the
Civil War to his grandfather, the Rev.
David Caldwell, by his parishioners.

1909
THe Rev. Harotp H. Leacn died Sep-
tember 6, 1957 at Massanetta Springs,
Virginia. He served pastorates in Virginia,
‘Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, and
West Virginia.

1910

BrAcH MEADE CHENOWETH died at his
home in Birmingham, Alabama, on Au-

gust 4, 1957.
1912

Dr. Epwarpd Lyons died on November 5,
1957- He made his home in Holly Hill,
Florida.

ALFRED Louis WoLF of Roanoke, Virginia,
died in April, 1957.

1913
FRANK PIERCE WEBSTER died August 27,
1957, in Lexington, Virginia.

1914

SAMUEL O. LAUGHLIN, JR., died July 2g,
1957, after a lingering illness. He was an
industrial leader of the Ohio Valley sec-
tion.

1915

Cecil CLYDE Hoicompee, Jr., of Birming-
ham, Alabama, died on September 1, 1957.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1918
RALPH ARTHUR GOLDBERT died May 4,
1057, of a heart attack. He had been em-
ployed by the Division of Employment
in the New York State Department of
Labor, and made his home in Brooklyn,
New York.

1920

Joun C. Biocxer died on September 24,
1957, after an extended illness. He had
served as his class agent in the 1956-57
Fund Drive. He had been county attorney
for 24 years of Pinellas County, Florida,
and had participated greatly in the growth
of St. Petersburg. He was past president
of the St. Petersburg Bar Asosciation, and
president of the Florida Historical So-
ciety for two terms. He was working on
a three-volume history of Pinellas County
at the time of his death.

1931

CoL. BENJAMIN Major Ayars, chief of the
legal office of the Chief of Staff for Logis-
tics in Washington, D.C., died on Sep-
tember 1, 1957, at his home in Arlington,
Virginia. He had joined the army in
1942 and served continuously since. He
served for three years as executive officer
of the Judge Advocate section of the
Far East Command. His decorations in-
cluded the Legion of Merit.

JosepH B. MacGee died August 12, 1957,
following a gall bladder operation. He
was at one time, private secretary to the
late Harold L. Ickes, former Secretary of
the Interior. ‘Twenty years ago, he joined
the William Morris Agency in New York
City, and at the time of his death, he was
director of casting. He was identified with
nearly every play on Broadway.

1943

Dr. JEAN LEE BENSON died October 23,
1957, after an illness of several months.
He had made his home in Whittier,
California, for the past two years, and
had practiced medicine there.

 

1926

ROBERT OLIVER BENTLEY, JR., Was married
to Mrs. Elizabeth Myers Pitcaithly on
September 18, 1957, in Newark, New
Jersey.

1949

BRIAN BELL, JrR., and Sue Ransom Flater
were married September 6, 1957, at All
Saints Church, Bethesda, Maryland.

FALL 1957

1950

Dr. JOHN Brookins ‘TAYLOR was married
to Charlotte Jenks Woods on August 17,
1957, at Christ Episcopal church, Blue-
field, West Virginia. They are living in
Charlottesville, Virginia.

BARNETT ROBINSON, JR., Was married to
Lennie Weinberg in Miami, Florida, on
August 9, 1957. Dr. Alan Kaplan, ’51, and
Bill Gladstone, ’52, were among the
guests at the wedding. The Robinsons
are making their home at Thornycroft
Apartments, Garth Road, Scarsdale, New
York.
1951

LrsL1E LONGSTREET MASON., JR., and Helen
Hope Chiles were married August 24,
1957 at Beth Horan Methodist church,
Natural Bridge, Virginia. They are mak-
ing their home in Powhatan, Virginia.

1953

CHARLES RANDALL BRADLEY was married
to Jacquelyn Goodwin on November 23,
1957, in Perkins Chapel, Southern Meth-
odist University, Dallas, Texas.

1954

James ELtis Crossy, JR., and Marianne

Garton were married on October 19, 1957,
at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, Deca-
tur, Georgia.

1955

JAMES EARL ZIMMERMAN and Mabel Dean
Burks were married August 31, 1957, in
Roanoke, Virginia.

1956

WILLIAM L. DOLs, JR., was married to
Shirley Spoerry on September 7, 1955, in
Immanuel Church-On-The-Hill, Alexan-
dria, Virginia.

ALBERT CARVETH Hopcson and Peggy Ann
Brooks were married November g, 1957, in
St. John’s Episcopal Church, Roanoke,
Virginia. They are making their home in
Arlington, Virginia.

Jack ARNOLD MORGENSTERN and Marilyn
Gaye Wissman were married on July 14,
1957, in Lorain, Ohio, and are now mak-
ing their home at 2044 Cornell Road,
Cleveland, Ohio.

RUDYARD CarL ApBpotrt and Jeanette Foltz
were married September 7, 1957, in Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church, Lexington,
Virginia.

ANDREW BROCKMAN VARNER, JR., and Gay-
nelle Forest Hitchens were married on
October 25, 1957, at Brainbridge Baptist
church, Richmond, Virginia.

1957

Lucio G. ALIOTTI was married to Vir-
ginia Garland Brown on September 17,

1957, in Sacred Heart church, Winchest-
er, Virginia. They are making their home
in New York City, where Lucio is with
the Overseas Credit Department of the
First National City Bank of New York.

ARNOLD F. Gwin was married to Mary-
Elizabeth Conway on August 10, 1957, in
St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church, Man-
hasset, Long Island.

WILLIAM J. LeMoN and Barbara Inez
Boyle were married August 17, 1957, at
Second Presbyterian church in Roanoke,
Virginia. He is attending law school at
Washington and Lee, and she is teach-
ing at Buena Vista High school.

RICHARD CASE BELDEN and Barbara Ellen
Kilday (Hollins ’57) were married June
29, 1957, and are now at home in Hart-
ford, Connecticut, 77 Westbourn Park-
way.

MorGAN SCHAFER was married on Sep-
tember 7, 1957, to Judith Graves in St.
Mark’s Protestant Episcopal Church of
New Canaan, Connecticut.

JosepH C. KNAKAL, JR., and Carol Mary
Doyle were married August 10, 1957, in
Culpeper, Virginia. ‘They are living in
Lexington while Joe attends law school.

 

1936

Mr. and Mrs. EpwarpD ScoTT BOZE, JR., are
the parents of a son, Edward Scott, III,
born August 19, 1957. They have a two
year old son, Blair Manson.

1940

Mr. and Mrs. A. Lea Boot are the proud
parents of twin sons, Cary Gamble and
George Lea. They were born on October
8, 1957, in Lynchburg, Virginia.

1941

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM BUCKNER MORGAN
are the parents of a son, William Benners,
born June 21, 1957. They make their
home at 4252 Chanwill Avenue, Memphis,
‘Tennessee.

Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Thomas Web-
ster, born October 10, 1957.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD LEVIN are the par-
ents of a son, Bobert Brice, born October
7, 1957, in Norfolk, Virginia.

23

1944

Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM CRITTENDEN are
the parents of a daughter, Constance Ello-
way, born September 2, 1957, in Birming-
ham, Alabama.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. BLANKEN are the par-
ents of a daughter, Caroline, born October

2, 1957.
1947

Mr. and Mrs. JACK CROWDER are the par-
ents of a baby girl, Barbara Elizabeth,
born June 16, 1957. They live at 809
Larchwood Road, Falls Church, Virginia.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. C. WILLIAM Pacy are the
parents of a son, Charles William, Jr.,
born August 17, 1957. They live at 1523
Charmuth Road, Lutherville, Maryland.

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES RILEY MCDONALD are
the parents of a son, James Riley, Jr., born
July 17, 1957.

‘THE Rev. and Mrs. JAMES E. CANTLER are
the parents of a son, Arthur Stoney, born
October 11, 1957.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. ‘TOWNSEND Oast are the par-

ents of a daughter, Ellen Powell, born
August 11, 1957.

Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp P. BAsseTT are the
parents of a daughter, Laura Powers, born
March 24, 1957.

Dr. and Mrs. EArt R. CAMPBELL, JR., are
the parents of a third daughter, Nancy
Laureene, born April 29, 1957.

Mr. and Mrs. DONALD RAE STEENBURGH are
the parents of a second child, a girl, Lori,
born October 1, 1957. Their son, Neil, is
almost two years old.

1952

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES B. GROVE are par-
ents of a son, William Franklin, born
August 28, 1957. Their other son is Charles
Bryant, III, three years of age.

Mr. and Mrs. JAmeEs 'T. GRay are the par-
ents of a son, James Thomas, Jr., born

July 23, 1957.

Mr. and Mrs. BENNO FORMAN are the par-
ents of a son, Geoffrey Varley, born Oc-
tober 25, 1957, in Roanoke, Virginia. He
is already enrolled in the class of ’79 at
Washington and Lee.

1953

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. JOHNSON, JR., are the
parents of a baby girl, Kathryn Anne, born

September 16, 1957. They live at 3906
Chamberlayne Avenue in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

Mr. and Mrs. Jere N. Moore, JR., are the
parents of a second daughter, Sarah Can-
tey, born October 6, 1957.

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM DuURWOOD BRUCE
are the parents of a daughter, Karen
Elizabeth, born August 7, 1957.

1955

Mr. and Mrs. ‘THOMAS BAKER of Lexing-
ton are the parents of a daughter, Kim-
berly Boyce, born September 22, 1957.
Tommy is with the local Ford agency,
Baker Ford Sales.

1957

Mr. and Mrs. GERALD WALTON SMILEY are
the proud parents of a son, Edward Bar-
ton, born October 30, 1957. They are
making their home at 216 South Wayne
Street, Waynesboro, Virginia. Jean will
be remembered as the very capable sec-
retary for the athletic department at
Washington and Lee while her husband
attended law school.

Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE B. Forrson are the
parents of a son, Richard Lee, born Sep-
tember 10, 1957.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

SAZERACS
195/

10 inch 33 1/3 L. P. Record

 

Songs by the undergraduate singing group heard at Alumni banquets, dance sets, and house
parties, including

WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING I TALK TO THE [TREES SOMEWHERE OVER THE RAINBOW, and others

send orders to: Limited Supply
SAZERACS, Box g1, Lexington, Virginia

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

$3.25 Postpaid

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
SUMMARY OF INCOME AND DISBURSEMENTS

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1957

INCOME |
Ar Tapa Funan. 2a eee pei eee cig Mende cos Sede d en bocesshassbecqoedlensnedancedeqssosensunenegetaceatatecaddaaes tense 5 98,721.59
Accounts receivable—Pledges to Alumni Fund, not ue... cee 3,739.67
Washington and Lee University—operating €XPeMse «0.0... cette ett tee ees 47,865.25
POLAT: PCO ie oi ise ea hake key ed oa ees ened ented ewes chen ea Degg tetes seagen eee ete Fore $150,326.51
DISBURSEMENTS
FUNC ic recog a ire coy eed a cess ae abe cuss udese densa ensetaueeag eat sngeeeeeGigis panginedeaiecrens 5 19,448.29
Class Agent EXpemse......ccccccccccccccccssseeceesscnscesentsetecteererenerseeseeseanetineneeseaanerteeesees crept ces 7,123.61
Aphatnnni,. MagaZine........is.cccccciceeecsesssececessecessevesseneccenegeteeeeionqeeveneresseeonsansecnnsesseeseeseeseneees 10,713.85
CN AS5 RR CURTIOMIS! acc his feccigd. eG evesaccecsneteseceeteedsagessceech saves ortecctesssnssasedecedergnttbenssoeendennagensoses say 2,603.66
Deen coe vee teen oat eee cdevta ape egsteenters cenigece ata tatsueemesinee (nebaensvtsSeeestnstinaveasts 1,145.99
Entertaining (Homecoming and Finals) Senior Banquet......... cscs eee eeees 2,183.32
Office: Supplies. .)0 ee tietnese es Rt ene eae pre ey eee 1,740.40
Postage. .....3..3 ecg ih ees es ibis se is euieagen a es Seee peau cnptganatbavetateansang seaeessp deus ceguaye yernnae 1,723.49
Telephone and Telegraph........ccccccccccccenseete cece etter eee nent e neers niet eneeneseeeeseceseeneeeneens 231.22
WESC TACOS i ark are costa seen cunncdiven tiger cca ageue sss tedigyd ces ads sdeceethapeereedeamnrtiseereea 591.66
Equipment purchased.........cccccccccececesceseeneeceeee en cece cree eneenesneeneenessecneseseesesseseensensecsetiengs 959.76
“PF Otal DiSbULSOMOT IS... ccc cccacccceenecsckeg (easesuceetesceeeccesdsiegseseeseelastdestensessenseseereoodsbaseedtabavacs $ 47,865.25
Transferred to Washington and Lee University Treasuret.............: ccc 98,721.59
Accounts payable—Pledges to Alumni Fund, not due... rete renee eee 3,739.67
$150,326.51
CasH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1957—REVOLVING FUND
(Advanced by University ‘Treasurer for Current Expenses) «0.0.0... cesses ener $ 800.00
CASH BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1957—PLATE FUND......cccccccccccccceeeseeeneeeeteesenetsensenersenaenenaeneeneenengy $ 486.82

VALUE OF PLATES ON HAND AT COST JUNE 30, 1957] cesses eet e sete teneteeeeeeniecen $ 1,494.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $27.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

