 

The Classroom and Changing

‘Trends in Science

Winter 1958 Dr. Arnold Toynbee Joins Facu

Regional Agents for 1958

Alexandria, Louisiana—Judge George M. Foote, ’40, 2538

Avenue C.

Alexandria, Virginia—-Frederick A. Marsteller, ’37, 310 South
Lee Street

Anderson, South Carolina—Alvin T. Fleishman, 741, P.O.
Box 253

Ashland, Kentucky—Richard O. Parmelee, ’32, Ventura Hotel

Atlanta, Georgia—Richard A. Denny, Jr., ’52, 434 Trust Com-
pany of Georgia Building

Augusta, Georgia—W. Hale Barrett, 756, Hull, Willingham,
Towill and Norman, Suite 1013, Southern Finance
Building

Baltimore, Maryland—Frank C. Brooks, ’46, Tongue, Brooks
and Company, 213 Saint Paul Place |

Baton Rouge, Louisiana—John Prewitt Nelson, 52, 850 North
Boulevard

Bedford, Virginia—Dr. William V. Rucker, ’31, 404 North
Bridge Street

Birmingham, Alabama—Raleigh M. Jenkins, ’24, Jenkins
Lumber and Manufacturing Company, 4120 South
First Avenue

Bluefield, West Virginia—F,. Daniel Wells, Jr., ’43, Box 175

Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee—Waldo G. Miles, ’38, Jones,
Woodward and Miles, Bristol, Virginia

Buena Vista, Virginia—Fverett J. Schneider, °44, First Na-
tional Bank

Charleston, South Carolina—Park Bowie Smith, ’51, 125%
Tradd Street

Charleston, West Virginia—William T. Brotherton, Jr., 47,
611-15 Charleston National Bank Building

Charlotte, North Carolina—John Schuber, Jr., ’44, 207 AI-
tondale Avenue

Charlottesville, Virginia—Ernest V. Echols, ’41, 1332 Rugby
Road

Chattanooga, Tennessee—Gerry U. Stephens, ’50, 904 Avon
Place

Chicago, Illinois—Alton D. Farber, ’40, J. Walter Thompson
Company, 410 North Michigan Avenue

Cincinnati, Ohio—Ned H. Brower, ’42, Beau Brummel Ties,
Inc.

Clarksburg, West Virginia—Paul A. Hornor, ’31, Box 386

Clarksdale, Mississippi— William H. Maynard, Jr., 750, Box |

670, Route 1

Cleveland, Ohio—Roy D. Prentiss, ’44, 17605 Kinsman Road

Columbia, South Carolina—Grady H. Forgy, Jr., ’42, John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1306
Lady Street

Columbus, Ohio—H. Thorpe Minister, Jr., °49, Fifty East
Broad Street

Covington, Virginia—Roscoe B. Stephenson, Jr., ’43, Court
House Square

Cumberland, Maryland—William L. Wilson, ’38, 525 Cum-
berland Street

Eastern Shore, Virginia—Herbert S. Powell, ’20, Wacha-
preague, Virginia

Emporia, Virginia—George S. Lowry, ’37

Frankfort, Kentucky—Charles L. Hobson, ’41, 605 Briar Cliff

Frederick, Maryland—George T. Myers, ’39, 202 Grove Boule-

var
Greenville, South Carolina—James F. Gallivan, ’51, Post Of-

fice Box 120

Hagerstown, Maryland—Omer T. Kaylor, Sr., ’11, Grace
Building

Houston, Texas—Robert W. Davis, Jr., ’30, 1503 Esperson
Building

Huntington, West Virginia—C. Thomas Garten, ’41, WSAZ
Inc

Jackson, Mississippi—U. Grey Flowers, Jr., ’43, First Nation-
al Bank Building, Post Office Box 2022
Jacksonville, Florida—James S. Taylor, ’50, Adair, Ulmer,
Murchison, Kent and Ashby, Barnett Bank Bldg.

Johnson ae iieamee ie H. Wofford, ’33, Llewellyn

oo

Kansas City, Missouri—Dr. John Morris Atwood, ’°42, 209
West 66th Terrace

Lewisburg, West Virginia—Joseph M. Holt, ’25, Box 146

Lexington, Kentucky—C. W. Swinford, ’43, Stell, Keenon and
Park, 310 First National Bank Building

Little Rock, Arkansas—Everett Tucker, Jr., ’34, Industrial
Development Company of Little Rock, Chamber of
Commerce Building, 115 West 6th Street

Long Island, New York—Stephen E. Campbell, Jr., ’41, 68
Carlton Avenue, Port Washington, New York

Los Angeles, California—Stanley A. Kamen, °49, William
Morris Agency, Inc., 151 El Camino, Beverly Hills,
California

Martinsburg, West Virginia—Clyde E. Smith, Jr., ’42, 199
North Tennessee Avenue

Memphis, Tennessee—Henry M. Barker, ’49, The Home In-
demnity Company, Claim Department, 910 Union
Planters Bank Building

Miami, Florida—Alvin C. Terrill, 52, 418 South Andrews
Avenue, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

Monroe, Louisiana—W. Gilbert Faulk, ’34, Box 1192

Montgomery, Alabama—John A. Bonham, °44, Post Office
Box 1533

Montgomery, West Virginia—Ejarl M. Vickers, ’49, 310% Sixth
Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana—Herbert G. Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke
Service, Inc.

Newport News, Virginia—John P. Bowen, Jr., 51, The Daily
Press, Inc., 215-217 25th Street

New River-Greenbrier—Claude R. Hill, Jr., ’54, Love and
Abbot, Love Building, Fayetteville, West Virginia

New York, New York—E. Stewart Epley, 49, Thirty-Seventh
Floor, 60 East 42nd Street

Norfolk, Virginia—T. W. Joynes, Jr., ’52, 7700 North Shir-

land Avenue

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma—Joseph B. Edwards, ’40, 2700
Northwest 41st Street

Orlando, Florida—Warren H. Edwards, ’39, 326 North Main
Street

Owensboro, Kentucky—Dr. William L. Woolfolk, ’25, 115
East Fourth Street

Parkersburg, West Virginia—John S. Bailey, Jr., ’51, Post
Office Box 310

Pensacola, Florida—William J. Noonan, Jr., ’43, 2005 East
Maxwell Street

Petersburg, Virginia—Eugene R. Marable, Jr., 44, 606 Union
Trust Building

Pine Bluff, Arkansas—Walter J. Wilkins, ’14, W. J. Wilkins
and son, 118% Chestnut Street

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania—James C. Evans, ’44, 1001 Willow
Street, Springdale, Pennsylvania

Portsmouth, Virginia—William H. Oast, Jr., 44, 307 New
Kirn Building

Raleigh, North Carolina—John R. Baldwin, ’51, Apartment
R, Glenwood Apartments

Richmond, Need Gordon Miller, ’45, Post Office Box
13

Roanoke, Virginia—Linwood Holton, Jr., ’44, Eggleston and
Holton, 209 State and City Building

St. Louis, Missouri—John L. Patterson, ’21, 4144 Lindell Blvd.

San Antonio, Texas—Thomas C. Frost, Jr., 50, Frost Nation-
al Bank

Shreveport, Louisiana—Horace H. Jeter, ’42, 412 Louisiana
Bank Building

Tampa, Florida—William Earle Tucker, ’48, Gibbons, Gib-
bons and Tucker, First National Bank Building

Tazewell, Virginia—James W. Harman, Jr., °44

Tulsa, Oklahoma—Hansford Lee Farris, 41, 2214 East 25th
Place

Upper New Jersey—Richard H. Turrell, ’49, 10 Commerce
Court, Newark, New Jersey

Washington, D. C.—John W. Warner, Jr., "49, 4000 Cathe-
dral Avenue, Apt. 348-B

Waynesboro, Virginia—J. B. Stombock, "41, 421 Walnut Ave.

Welch, West Virginia—Benjamin F. Howard, ’21, Post Office
Box 391

Westchester County and Lower Connecticut—Donald S. Hill-
man, '46, 223 Fox Meadow Road, Scarsdale, N. Y.

Western New Mexico—Jackson G. Akin, Jr., 740, Rodey,
Dickason, Sloan, Akin, and Robb, First National
Bank Building, Post Office Box 558, Albuquerque,
New Mexico

Williamsburg, Virginia—James C. Graff, ’44, Jamestown
Farms Company, Post Office Box 1958

Wilmington, Delaware—James F. Booker, ’48, 1008 South

Hilton Road, Oaklane Manor

— Virginia—Richard K. Eddy, ’33, Post Office Box
23

Wytheville, Virginia—Thomas F. Walker, 713

"42, Box 82,

Jr.,

 

Applachian—Homer A. Jones
Bristol, Virginia
Augusta-Rockingham—Richard W. Smith, ’41, In-
dustrial Loan Building, Staunton, Virginia.
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 46 Fifth St., N.W.
Baltimore—Robert S. Hoyt, ’39, 518 Chestnut
Avenue, Towson 4, Maryland
, 25, 16381 North 38rd

Birmingham—John V. Coe
Street

Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan, Jr.,
‘34, United Carbon Building

Chattanooga—George U. Stephens, ’50, 904 Avon

| Place
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust
and Savings Bank, Winnetka, Illinois
’41, 3916 Shel-

Charlotte—Herbert Woodward, Jr.,
ton Place
"41, 1020 Union Trust

Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter,
Building
Cleveland—Roy D. Prentiss, ’44, 17605 Kinsman
Road
Danville—Richard L. Heard, ’44, 220 Robertson
Avenue
Florida West Coast—John A. Hanley, ’34, First
Federal Building, St. Petersburg
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building
Miami, Florida
Houston—Ted Riggs, °38, 2000 First City National
Bank Building
Jacksonville—A. B. Conley, Jr., ’48, 625 Hogan
Street
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West 10th

Street
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II,

Home Life Building
E. McCausland,

Lynchburg—James
Northwood Circle
°46, Commerce Title

Mid-South—Harry Wellford,
Building, Memphis, Tennessee
"41, 68 Carlton

"40, Kentucky
°48, 1408

New York—Steven E. Campbell
Avenue, Port Washington, New Yor
New.  Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, ’30, Jahncke
Service
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, ’13,
Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk—Bernard Levin, ‘'42, 7407 Cortlandt
Place
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401 Re-
public Bank Building, Dallas
Nortbwest Louisiana—Richard Eglin, ’44, Shreve-
por
Peninsula—Vernon T. Strickler, Jr., ‘38, 3406
Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia
leach oe L. Leopold, ’39, 183 Pelham
Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 Southeastern

pia M.
Building, Greensboro, North Carolina
"41, 702

Pittsburgh—Anthony E. D’Emilio, Jr.,
Frick Building

Richmond—L. Gordon Miller, Jr., ’45, 8912 Nor-
wick Road, Moreland Farms

Roanoke—Richard T. Edwards, ’33, Colonial Bank
Building

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., °48, 407-09

South Texas Building
St. Louis—Andrew H. Baur, ’37, 50 Picardy Lane

’ @layton 24, Missouri
°31, Box 1672, Huntington,

Tri-State—T. J. Mayo,
West Virginia
Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Mary and
Washington, ). C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,

, 1818 You Street, N.W.

j mag

azine

yrivERsity

Winter 1958
Vol. XXXII

No. 1
Published quarterly by Aiumni, Incorporated
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Managing Editor
‘TINA C. JEFFREY

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvIs, JR.
FRANK J. GILLIAM
I}. SMITH

DONALD
Harry K. (Cy) YOunc

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
President

ERNEST Woopbwarb IT, 1940

Vice-President

Davin D. JOHNSON, 1921

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YOUNG, 1917

Treasurer
FRANK C. BROOKS, 1946

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MarTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
PARKE S. ROUSE, JR., 1937
ERNEST ‘Woopwarb, II, 1940
DAVID D. JOHNSON, 1921
FRANK C. Brooks, 1946
PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935
BEN W. DitTro, 1943

CHE Cover: Dr. Arnold J. Toynbee, scholar in resi

dence this semester, speaks informally to students in

a round-table discussion on Europe

 

World-Famous Historian

talked-about events at Wash-
ington and Lee in recent years is
the lecture series by British histor-
ian Dr. Arnold J. ‘Toynbee, who is
visiting scholar here during the
spring semester.

The visit to Lexington marks his
first extended stay at any American
college, although he has lectured
at many schools during previous
trips to the United States.

Chairman of arrangements for
lectures is Dr. Edward D. Myers,
professor of philosophy. He is a

O*. OF THE MOST exciting and

 

Joins F aculty

close. friend of Dr. Toynbee .and
collaborator on an atlas and gazet-
teer which will be the eleventh
volume of Dr. ‘Toynbee’s monu-
mental “‘A Study of History.” It
will be published in September
by the Oxford University Press.
The series of Jectures 15 being
held each Friday afternoon in Lee
Chapel, and will continue through
May 23, with the topic, “A Chang-
ing World in the Light of History.”
The great demand for tickets has
so taxed the capacity of Lee Chapel
that a closed circuit television was

 

Dr. and Mrs. ToynBEE in their first floor apartment at “Mulberry Hill.”

hooked up to a large room in Mc-
Cormick library, and there the
overflow crowd sits each week to
see and hear the great man.

When planning first began for
Dr. ‘Toynbee’s visit, it was antici-
pated that the lectures would be
held in cozy, new duPont auditor-
ium, where some 125 persons can
be seated comfortably. Attendance
would be controlled by a simple
ticket system. In mid-January, af-
ter 12,000 announcements of the
series had gone out to alumni, par-
ents, and other university friends,
requests for the tickets snowballed.
‘The series was then moved to Lee
Chapel. About two hundred stu-
dents signed up to attend all lec-
tures on a non-credit basis, while
twenty-three are receiving academic
credit for attendance, plus regular
quizzes prepared by a panel of pro-
fessors. Faculty members and wives
from Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute, a lim-
ited number of VMI cadets, pro-
fessors and occasional students from
other Virginia colleges, alumni, and
the general public have filled Lee
Chapel to its }50-seat capacity, and
overflowed into the library room,
which holds 250 more.

A motion picture record of the
entire lecture series is being made
by Encyclopaedia Britannica Films,
Inc., with support from the Fund
for the Advancement of Education.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

‘This series will be made available
by the company for purchase by
other educational institutions next
fall. Filming requirements added
some headaches. Light had to be
blocked out from the windows, and
the chapel had to to be made
acoustically acceptable. Engineers
from the film company spent a
week installing special lights, cam-
era platforms, electrical controls
and recording devices. ‘(heir cues
and timing signals were disconcert-
ing vat. the first lecture, .but.-Pro-
fessor “Toynbee and his audience
had to get used to them.

Mrs. ‘Toynbee, a historian in her
own right, accompanied her hus-
band to Lexington. ‘They are liv-
ing at--‘Mulberry Hill,” an old
Southern manor house on a hilltop
that overlooks the campus, and the
ruins of Liberty Hall. The Toyn-
bees have been working together
since 1924, when he was appointed
by the Royal Institute of ‘Inter-
national Affairs in London to pro-
duce its annual volume on. inter-
national affairs, and she was as-

signed to be his assistant! «They ~

have collaborated in writing and re-

searching ever since, and in 1946,
they were married. Dr. Toynbee’
has two sons by his first marriage, —

and nine grandchildren. One son,
Philip, is a novelist, and the other,
Laurence, is an artist and teaches
painting.

Both Dr. and Mrs. ‘Toynbee
have been taken to Lexington’s
heart. “‘Townsfolk, accustomed to
seeing and hearing well-known per-
sons at both colleges, have warmed
to the friendly British couple as
never before. Both ‘Toynbees love
to walk, and almost any clear day
can be seen trudging to the super-
markets, where they delight in
buying American short-cut frozen
and canned foods. Both have a dis-
armingly simple manner, a good
sense of humor, and are quick to
smile.

Although they have been enter-
tained extensively while here, they

WINTER 1958

 

Dr. ‘TOYNBEE was one of the speakers at the fourth International Relations Week,
- on the subject, “A West European Point of View.” In the picture above are senior JOHN
_S. PEALE, New York City; Dr. FRANcis P. GAINES; Dr. TOYNBEE; and student Puitie W.
‘Turner, II, Washington, D.C.

both enjoy the “simple life.” Their
hobby is reading, and they do a
good bit of that. They hardly ever
watch television or listen to the
radio, for the good reason that
they're usually busy with other
pursuits. Dr. Toynbee is working
on a revision of his comprehensive
ten-volume, “Study of History,”
and is composing a volume of es-
says to be published soon. He also
keeps up a prodigious correspon-
dence with friends all over the
world. Mrs. ‘Toynbee is also doing
literary work while here.

In addition, Dr. ‘Toynbee has
speaking engagements at other
Virginia colleges during the spring.
He will appear at Sweet Briar, Hol-
lins, University of Virginia, Uni-
versity of Richmond, Mary Bald-

win, Averett, Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College, Mary Washington,
and Berea College. During the
Easter vacation in April, the Toyn-
bees will fly to Guatamala for
about ten days.

At the first lecture on February
7, President Francis P. Gaines be-
stowed the honorary degree of doc-
tor of humane letters upon Dr.
Toynbee. The largest collection
of college presidents seen here in
many a day was present on that oc-
casion. Among them were: Dr.
Anne G. Pannell of Sweet Briar;
Dr. H. Sherman Oberly, Roanoke
college; Dr. Earl G. Hunt, Jr.
Emory and Henry college; Dr. G.
Tyler Miller, Madison college; Dr.
J. Earl Moreland, Randolph-Ma-
con; General and Mrs. William H.

3

Milton, Jr.. VMI; Dr. and Mrs.
John R. Everett, Hollins; Dr. War-
ren D. Bowman, Bridgewater; Dr.
and .Mrs. Joseph G.. Robert,
Hampden-Sydney; Mr. and Mrs.
Russell Robey, Southern Seminary;
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel R. Spencer,
Jrv., Mary Baldwin; and Dr. and
Mrs. William F. Quillian, Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s college. Al-
so present were Dr. Alvin D. Eur-
ich, director of the Fund for the
Advancement of Education; Mrs.
Alfred J]. duPont, benefactor of
Washington and Lee; and James R.
Caskie, 06, rector of the board of
trustees.

Subjects for the Toynbee lectures
have been scheduled as_ follows:
February .7,° "Mexico and. Peru’;
February 15, “Australia”; February
21,°. “Indonesia”; February: -28,
“South-East Asia and its Peaceful
Penetration by the © Chinese: ;
Mareh 4, “Japan; March 14, “In-
dia, Pakistan, Ceylon”; March 21,
“India, Pakistan, Ceylon (contin-
ued), and Persia”; March 28, ‘The
Arab World’s Past and Future’;
April 11, “Phe Arab World’s Case
Against the West”; April 18, “The
Arab World’s Reaction Against
Western Rule”; April 25, “Why
Prompt Peace Settlements in Al-
geria and Palestine are in Every-
body’s Interest’; May 2, “‘Sugges-
tions for Peace Settlements in Al-
geria and Palestine’; May g, “The
Triumph of Technology and the
Flight from the Land into the
Cities’; May 16, “Nationalism, De-
mocracy, Communism”; May 23,
“The Religions of Asia.”

Each session consists of about
fifty minutes of lecturing by Pro-
fessor ‘Toynbee, followed by a dis-
cussion period of forty-five minutes
to one hour.

Dr. ‘Toynbee was Director of
Studies at the Royal Institute of
International Affairs, and Research
Professor of International History
at the University of London from
1925 until his retirement in 1955.
He is now 68 years old.

{

Top, scene at a reception held after the
first Toynbee lecture, at the home of
PresmpENT and Mrs. GAINEs: left to right,
Mrs. DUPONT; Dr. WARREN EVEROTE, vViCe-
president in charge of production, Ency-
clopaedia Britannica Films; MRs. ‘TOYNBEE;
Dr. TOYNBEE; and Mrs. GAINES, introduc-
ing a guest. Second photo, students ask
questions after a lecture. Bottom photo,
Dr. ToyNBEE emphasizes a vital point
during one of his fifteen scheduled lectures.

 

THE ALUMNI

    

MAGAZINE

 

The University’s Athletic Policy

N JULY 7, 1954, THE TRUSTEES of

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity decided that athletics at this in-
stitution should be on an amateur
basis. Since that time the decision
has been appealed twice, the later
occasion being January 18, 19598.
The Trustees remain firm in convic-
tion that for a school of our pur-
pose, the amateur basis is wisest.

The position today is based on
principle, a principle which insists
that the boys who come to this cam-
pus have as primary objective and
obligation the training of a good
education and not the performance
of sports. Young men on athletic
scholarships are compelled to make
sports their primary interest; edu-
cation becomes secondary. ‘This un-
fortunate development of recent
years has resulted in many academ-
ic tragedies, of which our campus
has had its share.

The only alternative for this
school, and it was suggested with
emphasis, seemed to be providing
for the subsidized players an en-
tirely different type of educational
training, with lowered entrance re-
quirements, easier modes of in-
struction, evasion of the strong dis-
ciplines. The Trustees are not will-
ing to commit their responsibility
to such a program.

A natural, even if unsuspected, re-
sult was that subsidized athletics
actually denied in part the joy of
intercollegiate sport to other stu-
dents. When, shortly after World
War II, this institution attempted
a moderate program of subsidiza-
tion, we were asked to provide
about 20 grants-in-aid for football,
with the expectation of many vol-

WINTER 1958

unteers to complete a squad. Very
few years passed before it became
evident that there were no volun-
teer players who would come out
for football. ‘The demands upon
time were entirely too exacting. A
few years later a similar committee
came back to the authorities to ask
for 80 grants-in-aid. Subsidization
is, in the phrase of the poet, “ever
climbing up the ever-climbing
wave.

The University recognizes that
many fine alumni were able to
get their education through ath-
letic scholarships. But times have
changed, and the present demands
on a holder of an athletic scholar-
ship are so great that there is little
or no time to meet the intellectual
demands of education.

‘The ‘Trustees and the University
believe strongly in a good sports
program for our students. ‘The Uni-
versity engages in intercollegiate
competition in 13 fields. ‘Today
more boys are actually engaged in
intercollegiate sports than at any
time in the history of the school.
The University believes that a part
of its duty is to provide a wide and
challenging variety of sports for
participation; the University does
not believe that it is a part of its
duty to provide a great sports pro-
gram solely for the entertainment
of the public.

It is a mistake to reach the con-
clusion that the University is un-
friendly to athletes. ‘The Univer-
sity welcomes the good athlete who
can maintain his academic standing
and who can graduate. ‘The Univer-
sity invites alumni to direct such
boys to Washington and Lee and

encourages its coaches to seek to
interest such boys. If these young
men meet the scholarship standard,
they will be given consideration for
scholarship aid. No boy, however,
will be compensated for athletic
performance and no boy will be
compelled to play a sport.

We recognize difficulties in this
period of adjustment. Schedules, es-
pecially football, are made years in
advance. Only now are we begin-
ning to be able to schedule teams
of comparable amateurism. We will
eventually adjust ourselves to the
proper competition, but all of this
work takes time. In some sports we
can still compete with our old ri-
vals and shall do so; in other sports
we will seek competition where we
can compete successfully.

We have realized anew, perhaps
within recent months, the serious-
ness of our task. Education in
America today proposes more than
the success or happiness of the indi-
vidual. It carries immense respon-
sibility in the problem of human
destiny. ‘The enemies of our coun-
try, we are confident, would be
much pleased if our system of im-
parting knowledge, expanding the
power inherent in knowledge, inter-
preting ideals to which knowledge
should be serviceable, could all be
subordinated to exciting athletic
rivalries. Conscious of a great trust
from the past and dedicated to a
contribution unto the future, this
institution elects steadfastly to put
its precious privilege of education
first and dominant always.

JAmEs R. CaAskig, Rector
FRANCIS P. GaInEs, President

5

Reid Hall, built in 1904, houses the de-
partments of physics and pre-engineering.
Classes and laboratories are overcrowded,
and structure needs major remodeling.

N THIS AGE OF MISSILES and atoms,
I satellites and wonder drugs,
how can the college classroom keep
pace with the changing vistas of
science and science education?

This is no theoretical inquiry,
but a vital question with which
every college in America today must
come to terms. Every institution
of higher education must evaluate
its role in the teaching of science,
must determine the nature and ex-
tent of its contributions in the
fields of science and_ technology.
But in spite of the urgency of the
current situation, each college must
at the same time recognize its re-
sponsibility, not only for its science

The Classroom an

curricula, but for the total academ-
ic program which it must provide
for present and future generations
of students.

Washington and Lee has five
physical science departments with-
in the framework of its traditional
liberal arts curriculum—biology,
chemistry, geology, physics, and
pre-engineering (or physics-engi-
neering). Ihe University’s facilities
for teaching science, therefore,
along with all other phases of the
college’s educational program, came
under careful scrutiny nearly five
years ago when Washington and
Lee began a thorough self-study
program. Faculty, student, and ad-

6

 

ministrative committees analyzed
needs, strengths, and the scope of
the University’s educational offer-
ings. Department heads presented
their summaries of requirements
for the next ten years. Current fa-
cilities were carefully checked. Pos-
sibilities for utilizing existing space
more effectively were investigated,
and finally priorities were assigned
to each need.

Out of all the academic needs
thus evaluated, the requirements of
the natural- science departments
emerged as the most pressing. If
the University were to continue
to teach physical science in a man-
ner commensurate with its stand-

d Changing

ard of quality, then more teaching
and laboratory space must be
found. ‘These needs were presented
to the University’s administration
and to the Board of ‘Trustees.

As they considered these require-
ments, the Board did not decide on
the basis of needs alone. How much
additional money, they judged,
could the University afford to spend
for science without jeopardizing
other branches of its curriculum?
At the same time, if the quality of
scientific instruction were to be
maintained, could the college afford
not to spend a larger proportion
than the fifteen per cent which is
currently being used to meet the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

needs of the science departments?
In January of 1958, the Board of
‘Trustees voted to undertake an ex-
tensive building program, to pro-
vide more adequately the facilities
necessary for the University to
teach science in this age of expand-
ing scientific knowledge.

A CENTURY OF SCIENCE

But the building program is just
one more step in a long history of
scientific education at Washington
and Lee. As far back as 1866, the
University emphasized science. And
the instruction given almost a cen-
tury ago in those old laboratories
became the foundation for the col-
lege’s current departments of biol-
ogy, chemistry, geology, and phys-
ics. Only a year after Appomattox,
the trustees established the School

of Chemistry, when the college
was struggling desperately to repair
and rebuild. ““Three days [a week],”
read the department’s announce-
ment, “are devoted to lectures, il-
lustrated by elaborate experiments;
the other two days to recitations on
the lectures and textbooks. ‘The
laboratory is also accessible at con-
venient hours for students to study
manipulations privately.”

Before the end of that school
year, Cyrus H. McCormick had giv-
en the college $15,000 to establish a
chair of Experimental Philosophy
and Practical Mechanics (physics).
In the same year, the trustees allot-
ted $1,500 for scientific equipment,
a bold expenditure in those times
for a school with a student body of
only 146 and a faculty of fourteen.
Then in 1867, the college came into
possession of a planetarium, one

Trends in Science

 

Chemistry laboratory, where in spite of the many handicaps of crowded freshman

  

classes and needs for equipment, students receive a high quality of professional training.
As in other sciences, new discoveries and theories have widened the scope of teaching.

WINTER 1958

 

of only three or four then in exis-
tence, which, General Lee reported,
“has been of great advantage to
the students.”

Early courses included mining
and metallurgy, industrial geology,
botany, zoology, comparative anat-
omy, and physiological chemistry.
New courses in “natural history”
and geology were authorized. And
the faculty was instructed to pro-
ceed with plans for enlarging the
scientific departments. By 1895, 37
students were enrolled in general
and applied chemistry; 33 were tak-
ing geology and biology; and 65
studied natural philosophy (phys-
ics). At the turn of the century stu-
dents in chemistry classes num-
bered nearly 100. Dr. James Lewis
Howe, professor of chemistry, was
the idol of the campus, a promi-
nent figure among educators and in
national learned societies.

In 1904, through the gift of Wil-
liam H. Reid of Chicago, a science
building was constructed, “with
modern furniture of the best type
and the usual conveniences for lab-
oratory work, such as hot and cold
water, illuminating gas, and natu-
ral current.” ‘'wenty years later,
a chemistry building was erected,
designed and equipped in accord-
ance with “the most modern labo-
ratory practice.” ‘These two struc-
tures, one 58 years old, the other
38, provide the college’s facilities
for teaching of modern science.

CHEMISTRY

The department of chemistry
still occupies the main floors of
Howe Hall, as the building was
renamed in 1954. Here are five gen-
eral laboratories (the two for the
basic course having 80 to 100 desks
each), lecture rooms, special re-
search laboratories, storerooms,
preparation rooms, balance rooms,
and offices. On the second floor is
the chemistry library with more
than 5000 volumes. In the current
academic year, 183 students are en-
rolled in chemistry classes.

 

A need for new microscopes in biology ...

‘The department adheres strictly
to the requirements set by the
American Chemical Society as
standards for the evaluation of un-
dergraduate professional training
in chemistry. ‘These standards in-
clude a specific ratio of students to
faculty, a limited number of stu-
dents per laboratory, and minimum
course requirements in chemistry
and related sciences. Since the in-
ception of the evaluation program
in 1941, Washington and_ Lee’s
Chemistry Department has been
among the relatively small number
of chemistry departments in the
country which have been recog-
nized as providing this training.

In each of the past two years,
Washington and Lee has_ been
awarded a grant of $4,000 by E. I.
du Pont de Nemours “‘to help main-
tain [the University’s} record of
strength in chemical education.”

GEOLOGY

The department of geology oc-
cupies a section of the basement
of Howe Hall. Here two professors
and two laboratory assistants in-
struct nearly 200 students, 120 of
them in the beginning course. ‘The
department has three laboratories,

8

two of which also serve as lecture
rooms, a darkroom shared with
the biology department, a small li-
brary, offices, and a large lecture
room in a nearby building.

Geology has acute needs for in-
creased space and improved facili-
ties. A real need is felt for speci-
mens and fossils for the basic course.
The library needs expansion, a
drafting and map room is needed,
and additional space for displays
is required. But more significant,
geology, which began as a descrip-
tive subject, has changed markedly
in scope and emphasis. ‘The meth-

 

A larger lab for optics and electronics ...

ods and equipment of physics and
chemistry are now being applied to
the solution of such geologic prob-
lems as the origin of ore deposits,
the structure of the interior of the
earth, and the exploration for
oil, fissionable materials, and other
fuels. Students need to learn the
methods of such investigation and
to familiarize themselves with
equipment. But the instruments re-
quired for this quantitative empha-
sis would far exceed Washington
and Lee’s present space and budg-
ets. For example, polarizing micro-
scopes would cost from $500 to $700

apiece. And a seismograph, to be
used 1 determining the structure
of the earth’s crust, would cost
more than $10,000.

BIOLOGY

Washington and Lee’s depart-
ment of biology offers eleven cours-
es, with an enrollment this year of
107 men, in cramped quarters in
half of Howe Hall’s sub-basement.
Only two laboratories can be held
at the same time because of lack of
space. A valuable collection of
specimens is jammed into a small
storeroom because there is no dis-
play area. To grow culture speci-
mens, the botany laboratory has an
area scarcely larger than a window-
box. In this department, as in all
other of the sciences, new dis-
coveries and new theories have
widened the scope of teaching and
have brought vastly increased costs
for equipment and materials. Acute
needs exist for more laboratory
space, work rooms, a greenhouse,
animal room, museum space, con-
ference rooms, and equipment such
as microtomes, a microprojector,
plastic-mounted specimens, and
visual aids of all kinds. Last year,
thirty new microscopes for use in

 

...And new instruments for geology study.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

If Washington and Lee is to continue to teach physical science in a manner commensu-
rate with its standard of quality, then more teaching and laboratory space must be found.

the freshman course were provided
by gifts from 194 corporations do-
nating to the Virginia Foundation
for Independent Colleges. But al-
most as many more are still needed,
when more than 60 men are taking
the basic laboratory course.

PHYSICS

In Reid Hall, eighteen courses
are offered in physics and physics-
engineering (or pre-engineering),
with approximately 150 students
enrolled this term. Perhaps more
than any other laboratory science
taught at Washington and Lee, the
physics department needs space—
not only for teaching purposes but
for new equipment. Requirements
include a larger laboratory for
optics and electronics, more room
for the departmental library, space
for a small reactor and other equip-
ment needed to teach atomic phys-
ics. The department would like to
have a planetarium and. observa-
tory. Although the university al-

WINTER 1958

ready has a seven-inch telescopic
lens given by an alumnus, there
have been neither funds nor space
to mount it.

For students wishing an engineer-
ing degree, the university provides

a study program in cooperation
with Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Carnegie Institute of
Technology, Columbia University,
and Rennselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute. Under this plan, a student
takes three years of study at Wash-
ington and Lee and two more at
one of the technological schools.
He receives, upon completion of
the course, both a bachelor’s de-
gree from Washington and Lee and
an engineering degree from the
cooperating institution.

PRE-ENGINEERING

The department of pre-engineer-
ing provides courses in surveying,
drawing, descriptive geometry, en-
gineering materials, and applied
mechanics. ‘These courses, along
with basic and advanced classes in
physics, comprise the subject ma-
terial for a combined major in
physics-engineering.

Lee, when he was president, or-
ganized at the University a School
of Engineering which flourished
for more than 50 years. According
to historians, this school was “‘large-
ly the inspiration of the steel in-
dustry in the South.” But in the

 

Departmental libraries, with thousands of valuable scientific volumes and periodi-
cals, need space for expansion and a place for students to study and do reference work.

9

 

early 1920's, without the means to
expand the school to a full-scale
technological college, the Univer-
sity abandoned its engineering de-
grees rather than jeopardize its
standard of excellence. ‘Thus the
firm insistence upon maintaining
each science department within the
scope of an undergraduate liberal
arts program has continued as the
fixed tradition of the University.

GRADUATES

Each of Washington and Lee’s
science departments offers course
material leading cither to a Bach-
elor of Arts or a Bachelor of Sci-
ence degree. Graduates are encour-
aged to continue their studies be-
yond the undergraduate _ level.
Each year about 75 per cent of the
pre-medical majors go to medical
schools. Since World War II, ap-
proximately 160 pre-medical stu-
dents from Washington and Lee
have enrolled in 34 medical schools.
Within the past five years, more
than 45 per cent of all graduates in
the physical science departments
have continued their study in grad-
uate or professional schools across
the country.

FACULTY

Thirteen men comprise the full-
time faculty of the laboratory sci-
ence departments. Four are full
professors, two associate and _ five
assistant professors, and two in-
structors. Nine of these men have
doctoral degrees.

Although the faculty members
have little time for research dur-
ing the academic year, many pur-
sue their scientific specialties in
summer months. This summer one
professor has been awarded a grant
by Washington and Lee to con-
tinue his research on the resolu-
tion of optically active ketones in

Advanced study in nuclear phy-ics, fresh-
man analysis of geological fossils, and an
illustrated talk on comparative anatomy.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“yy

the light of new discoveries. And
others will be preparing new cours-
es, studying, or writing textbooks.

THE BUILDING PROGRAM

Cognizant of its responsibility
in the field of science education,
aware of the needs—as well as the
accomplishments—of its science de-
partments, the University now
looks toward its building program
for the laboratory sciences. ‘This
major project, to begin as soon as
feasible, will include the construc-
tion and equipping of one entirely
new science building, the remodel-
ing and addition to Howe Hall,
and the renovation or rebuilding
of Reid Hall. The new science
structure will be a_ three-storied
unit, to provide classrooms, labora-
tories, offices, darkrooms, research
rooms, storage space, preparation
rooms, and exhibit areas. A wing
joining it to Howe Hall will con-
tain a large lecture room, to be
shared by all the science depart-
ments. Reid Hall, when remodeled,

Dr. JAMES L. Howe, professor of chemis-
iry at Washington and Lee for 44 years.

WINTER

1958

 

 

Howe Hall, built for chemistry alone, houses departments of geology and biology as well.
The new science building will relieve congestion and provide space for new equipment.

will give additional class and lab-
oratory space, and will provide for
the physics library, a mechanical
shop, seminar rooms, a museum
room, and a room in which to
house a modern planetarium.
Such construction is costly. And
scientific equipment becomes more
expensive each year. The _ large-
scale building program which was
approved by the Board of ‘Trustees
in January will cost approximately
$2,000,000. An independent school
the size of Washington and Lee
does not have readily available
funds for such an undertaking.

Therefore the University proposes
to raise this money through a capi-
tal fund campaign to be conducted
during the 1958-59 academic year.

WITH KNOWLEDGE THAT its needs
are great, with the belief that its
plans have been carefully worked
out and adequately documented,
and with faith that its goals are
just and its friends generous, the
University moves toward its aim
of a more complete scientific pro-
gram—one further step in the long
history of scientific education at
Washington and Lee.

11

 

 

Well, Who Did Write That Song?

RANKLY, WE’RE SORRY we ran
EF that story in the last issue of the
Alumni Magazine which comment-
ed on the possibility that General
Robert E. Lee might’ve written a
song.

We said it was reportedly writ-
ten and set to music by the general,
and it does seem perfectly true that
he had a copy of the frivolous ditty,
“What Do They Do At The
Springs,” which he had passed on
to some good friends in Rockbridge

Baths, the Stoner family. But folks

all the way from Yankee New Eng-
land to Lynchburg, Virginia, are
claimed to be the true authors.
We're at the point now we don’t
know WHO wrote the song, and are
afraid to say anything else on the
matter for fear of getting into fur-
ther hot water with historians and
other descendents of possible au-
thors of the verses.

A newspaper story in the Enos-
burg Standard, of Enosburg Falls,
Vermont, “serving the Dairy Center
of the World,” declared indignant-
ly that “the Confederates have
raided Vermont again. This time,
however, the pilfering is literary.
Claimed by Virginia as its own is
the famed John Godfrey Saxe
poem, ‘Pray, what do they do at the
Springs?’ Yankee resistance to Reb-
el plagiarism was immediate.”

The Vermont paper said that a
vice-president of Harper Brothers
publishers asked professor George
Dykhuizen at the University of Ver-
mont to check on authorship of the
poem, and the philosophy prof

12

asserted, “Surely there can be no
doubt that Saxe wrote the poem.”
A volume of Saxe’s poetry pub-
lished in 1892, about a quarter of a
century after General Lee is sup-
posed to have given the song to
the Stoners, contains a copy of
the poem entitled, “Song of Sara-
toga,’ rather than “Pray, what do
they do at the Springs?’’ Members
of a Tyler family living in an
old Vermont house in Highgate
Springs think the poem was written
about their Springs, rather than
Saratoga, since Saxe was born there
in 1810. Highgate Springs was one
of Vermont’s famous watering
places of the nineteenth century.
The ‘Tylers had mailed a copy of

this same disputed poem, “What-

Do ‘They Do At the Springs,” as
their Christmas card just about the
time that the Alumni Magazine was
coming out, and disclosing the pos-
sibility that Lee might’ve authored
it. So you can imagine the Tylers’
embarrassment and indignation!
Meanwhile, back in Lynchburg,
Virginia, a new dispute was rag-
ing over another possible author.
‘The Lynchburg News had run a
little article commenting that it
thought the song was pretty good,
compared to Tin Pan Alley stand-
ards of today. Next day, a minor
storm broke. A professor at a near-
by college, an authority on Patrick
Henry, claimed that the probable
author was the great-granddaughter
of patriot Henry, a Mrs. Marion
Fontaine Cabell Henry Tyree. ‘The
News said the verses were possibly

 

written by Mr. ‘Tyree, her husband,
or Mrs. ‘Tyree, and set to music by
Charles Chakey de Nordendorf. De
Nordendorf was connected with the
Danville Female Institute between
1850 and 1870, and while there, is-
sued advertisements that he would
set to music any verse submitted
to him and make twenty-five copies
for the writer. The News said, “‘It
is assumed by local historians that
Mrs. ‘Tyree submitted her verses
‘What Do ‘They Do At The
Springs,’ to de Nordendorf under
the name of her husband. It is also
thought that although General Lee
might have known the Trees or de
Nordendorf, it is highly doubtful
that he ever heard of the song.”

‘The last statement immediately
evoked a_ response from Mrs.
Charles D. Binns of Fredericksburg,
Virginia. A granddaughter of David
Stoner of Rockbridge Baths, Gen-
eral Lee’s close friend, Mrs. Binns
declared emphatically that General
Lee DID give a copy of the song to
the Stoner family, and they had all
memorized it and had sung it often.
The original copy from the Gen-
eral, she said, was loaned by one of
the Stoner girls to a friend, and
lost. However, since all the family
had memorized it, the song was
written down again and passed to
other generations.

So there you have the big dispute
about the song. As we say, frankly,
we're sorry we brought the whole
matter up. If you find out that the
author is really Irvin Berlin, won’t
you please let us know?

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

tN

 

One of the nation’s top Republicans, Senator WiLL1AM F. KNOWLAND of California, left,

is welcomed to the Washington and Lee campus by President FRANcIs P. GAINES. Senator

Knowland was speaker for the forty-third annual tapping ceremonies of Omicron Delta
Kappa, January 11, 1958. He was also initiated into the national leadership fraternity.

University News

ITTLE OLD LEXINGTON had one of
L its coldest winters on record
this year, but icy winds sweeping
down off House Mountain and the
six big snowstorms didn’t seem to
slow down any of the usual college
activities.

Clubs and organizations zipped
into high gear, with many meet-
ings, speakers, and socials. In mid-
fall, students went through a three-
week seige of the same influenza
epidemic which wracked other col-
leges and institutions throughout

WINTER 1958

the nation, and dubbed their par-
ticular ailment, “the Rockbridge
Lung Rot.” Discouraged by a win-
less football season, a student col-
umnist in the Ring-tum Phi pro-
posed that regular sports here be
replaced by dodgeball, king of the
mountain, Mother May I, and Red
Rover, with minor sports of mar-
bles and hide-and-seek. In a student
poll taken later by the Ring-tum
Phi, 774 students out of 778 who
signed declared themselves favor-
ing financial aid to basketball play-

 

ers, and this petition went to the
board of trustees.

The ‘Troubadours _ presented,
“Witness for the Prosecution’’ for
four nights, beginning November
12. Opening dances, postponed by
influenza, were finally held No-
vember 15 and 16. Dirt began fly-
ing in November for the new uni-
versity dining hall and dormitories,
and heavy equipment churned
through the mud and wet winter
to dig foundations. Earth from the
excavations was carted to the chasm
across the road from McCormick
Library, filled in and packed down
to provide more parking places for
students’ cars.

Speakers at the university man-
aged to cover a wide variety of
subjects. The Rev. Alvin Kershaw
talked about jazz, as well as theo-
logy. Dr. Frank Percy Wilson of
Oxford discussed “Shakespeare and
the Comedy of His Time” at the
first Seminar in Literature, while
Professor Charles R. Anderson of
Johns Hopkins spoke on “Stairway
to Surprise: The Achievement of
Emily Dickinson” at the second
Seminar. Andre-Guy Lacerte of the
physics department chose as_ his
subject, “Satellites and Interplane-
tary Travel” at a science semi-
nar. Journalism speakers included
Charles R. McDowell, Jr. °46,
James B. L. Rush, Frank Fuller,
and Matthew W. Paxton, Jv., “49.
Dr. Bernard Mayo, University of
Virginia, spoke on ‘Alexander
Hamilton: Nation Builder’ in the
history department’s observance of
the Alexander Hamilton Bicenten-
nial. Arthur Larson, special assist-
ant to President D. D. Eisenhower,
and Dr. Arnold J. ‘Toynbee were
speakers at the fourth annual Inter-
national Relations Week, as well as
Dr. Edward Katzenbach, director
of the Harvard Defense Studies pro-
gram, and a governmental consult-
ant on diplomatic and _ security
problems.

Senator William F. Knowland,
one of the nation’s top Republi-

13

cans, addressed the annual Om1-
cron Delta Kappa assembly on
January 11. His topic was “1958
American Policy at Home and
Abroad.” Afterward the 49-year-
old candidate for the governorship
of California was “tapped” for
membership into ODK, national
leadership fraternity which origi-
nated at Washington and Lee.
The 50-man_ University Glee
Club announced a five-day spring
tour of the southeastern United
States, April 23-27. The trip will
take the group through Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee, Georgia, and Alabama.
Engagements will be at high school
and college functions, service clubs,
church meetings, industrial conven-
tions, and special convocations.

The annual transformation of
drab Doremus Gymnasium into a
weekend wonderland of color for
the 4gth annual Fancy Dress Ball
took place on January 31-February
1, with the theme, ““Che World of
Gilbert and Sullivan.” The setting
was the court of King Edward VII
in 1g05, on the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
first production. Buddy Morrow's
band furnished music. On Satur-
day night, Louis “Satchmo” Arm-
strong and his All-Stars played to
an enormous crowd which mostly
stood and applauded instead of
dancing. “Satchmo” blew hard,
mopped his brow with some five
different hankies, took frequent
swigs of water from a Washington
and Lee mug parked inside the
baby grand piano, and ended ona
screaming note with “Washington
and Lee Swing.”

Meanwhile, the rising flood of
would-be matriculates in American
colleges was making itself felt at
Washington and Lee. President

 

= A NUMBER OF IMPORTANT actions
were taken by the University Board
of Trustees at its meeting in Wash-
ington, D.C., on January 18.

The board granted approval of a
capital fund campaign to begin
in the Autumn, to raise two mil-
lion dollars for improved facilities
in geology, physics, biology, chem-
istry, journalism, and the Univer-
sity Press.

It also approved in principle a
faculty housing plan, described by
President Gaines as “one of the
finest, wisest, and most generous’
he has ever seen. Details of the plan
are to be worked out. The board
also earmarked land at Liberty
Hall Farm for posible future de-
velopment as housing for married
students, as well as faculty.

Names for the three new build-
ings now under construction were
set by the board. The new dining
hall will be Letitia Pate Evans Hall,

honoring one of the university's
greatest benefactors. The dormitory
for law school students will be John
William Davis Hall, to honor the
distinguished alumnus, ‘92, who
was Democratic candidate for pres-
ident of the United States in 1924.
The other dormitory will be named
for Newton D. Baker, ’94, another
distinguished alumnus and trustee,
and World War I Secretary of War.
Other action by the board in-
cluded faculty promotions, and the
trustees’ reafirming their views on
amateur athletic policies for Wash-
ington and Lee (see page 5).

 

m YEAR-END GIFTS to Washington
and Lee totaled approximately
$325,000, according to a_ report
made by President. Francis -P.
Gaines. The largest single gift was
$203,250 from Mrs. Alfred I.

 

 

 

Fancy Dress Ball this year had as its setting the court of King Edward VII, in 1905, dur-
ing the celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Gilbert and Sullivan. Murals de-
picted scenes from six of the most popular works of Gilbert and Sullivan. In the photo
above, Corky Briscoe of Louisville, reigned as king, with his queen, Miss Elene Hurst,
also of Louisville, surrounded by their courtiers in colorful costumes. A cocktail party
at the Mayflower Hotel preceded the ball, with chamber music played by the Mike
Pedicin quintet from Philadelphia. Look magazine cameramen photographed the events
of the weekend, and hope to use the pictures in some future issue.

Gaines announced in January that
applications for admission next
September are running fifty-eight
per cent ahead of this time last
year, an “almost unbelievable” in-
crease over last year’s record total.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ah

 

Dr. CHARLES W. ‘TURNER

duPont, one of the university’s
most generous supporters. Dr.
Gaines said contributions to the
university's Alumni and Parents’
fund were running ahead of last
year’s totals.

 

m™ PROMOTIONS FOR THREE members
of the Washington and Lee faculty
have been announced by the uni-
versity’s board of trustees. ‘The pro-
motions will be effective September
1, 1958.

Dr. Charles W. Turner, associate
professor of history, was promoted
to full professor. J. Paxton Davis,
Jv., assistant professor of journal-
ism, was promoted to associate pro-
fessor; and Dr. Sidney M. B. Coul-
ling, imstructor in English, was
promoted to assistant professor.

Dr. William G. Bean, head of the
department of history, was appoint-
ed to the recently established Doug-
las Southall Freeman professorship
in American history.

m PRESIDENT FRANCIS P. GAINES was
signally honored by the New York
Southern Society on January 17,

WINTER 1958

1958, when he was awarded the so-
ciety’s Medal of Distinction. ‘The
presentation was made to him be-
fore 1,000 guests at the Plaza Hotel
in New York City, at the seventy-
second annual Dixie dinner dance.

Dr. Gaines is only the sixth per-
son to receive the citation since the
organization’s founding in 1885.
The last medal went to Miss Mar-
garet Mitchell of Atlanta, author
of “Gone with the Wind.”

Burl Stevens Wilson, president
of the organization of Southerners
in the New York area, made the
award to President Gaines. Guest

 

J. PAxtTon Davis, JR.

speaker was Dr. Frank A. Rose,
president of the University of Ala-
bama.

One of the founders of the so-
ciety was the late Walter Lee Mc-
Corkle, °78. The late John W.
Davis, *92, was president at one
time. Among the projects spon-
sored by the society is the Algernon
Sydney Sullivan award to outstand-
ing seniors in Southern colleges.

DR. JAMES G. LEYBURN, professor
of sociology, has been named to
the student selection committee for
the Woodrow Wilson National Fel-
lowship Foundation.

He will serve with 74 other Amer-
ican and Canadian professors on
regional committees. They will
help nominate and_ select some
1,000 college seniors for Woodrow
Wilson Fellowships, which entitle
a student to one year of graduate
study leading to a teaching career.

DR. L. L. BARRETT, professor of Ro-
mance languages, has been awarded
a grant-in-aid by the American
Council of Learned Societies to aid
him in completion of important
research. The Council is a federa-
tion of twenty-five national schol-
arly organizations, devoted to the
encouragement of humanistic stud-
ies. The grant-in-aid has a maxi-
mum value of $3,000.

THE NEW FIRST FEDERAL Savings
and Loan Association building in
Roanoke, Virginia, officially opened
in January, decorated with a mural
painted by Dr. Marion Junkin,
head of the department of fine arts
at Washington and Lee. Dr. Junkin
has also done murals in the Leader
Federal Savings and Loan Associa-
tion building in Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee; at Stonewall Jackson hospi-
tal in Lexington; in McCormick
Library; and at the Virginia State
(Continued on page 18)

 

Dr. SIDNEY M. B. COULLING

15

 

 

 

16

804 Years of Service tc

HEY HAVE GIVEN of their time, their talents, their

knowledge; they have expended their energies and
their youth for countless thousands of Washington
and Lee students. ‘They have been patient in the class-
rooms, wise in decisions which would benefit the uni-
versity as a whole, and unselfish in sharing of them-
selves with the young men who came under their care.

 

In the picture above, sitting, left to right: DR. WILLIAM G. BEAN, history, 35 years; DR. WALTER A. FLick, psychology, 33 years;
FRANK J. GILLIAM, dean of students, 26 years; Dr. L. J. DESHA, chemistry, emeritus, 35 years; DR. FRANCIS P. GAINES, president,
27 years; EARL S$. MATTINGLY, treasurer, 39 years; CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS, dean of law school, 37 years; H. K. Younc, alumni sec-
retary, 28 years. Standing, CHARLES R. McDowe LL, law, 30 years; Dr. RoBerr W. Dickey, physics, 47 years; DR. FITZGERALD
Frournoy, English, 37 years; DR. OLLINGER CRENSHAW, history, 31 years; E. H. Howarp, registrar, 28 years; ANDREW B. VARNER,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

» Washington and Lee

Their influence has reached afar; their teachings and
codes of conduct have been absorbed into daily habits
of living by alumni in all parts of the world. In good
measure, these dedicated men have elevated Washing-
ton and Lee’s position in the educational world to its
present high level, and a debt of gratitude is owed
them by all who love the university.

 

assistant treasurer, 29 years; DR. M. O. PHILLIPS, economics. 28 years; CHARLES P. LicHT, law, 37 years; GEORGE J. IRWIN, romance

languages, 32 years; Dr. Lewts K. JOHNSON, commerce, 25 years; C. HAROLD LAUCK, journalism, 25 years; RUPERT N. LATTURE, po-

litical science, 37 years; Dr. R. W. Royston, mathematics, 28 years; Dr. HENRY V. SHELLEY, ancient languages, 30 years; Dr.

WiLtiAM H. HINTON, psychology, 27 years; and Dr. B. R. Ew1nG, romance languages, 30 years. Absent when the picture was made

were: Dr. ALLEN W. Mocerr, history, 28 years; O. W. RIEGEL, journalism, 27 years; E. P. Twompty, athletic director, 36 years;
and Dr. W. W. Morton, religion, emeritus, 30 years.

WINTER 1958 17

 

University News
(Continued from page 15)

Police Headquarters near Rich-
mond. ‘The new mural depicts a
family watching construction of a
new home, with Roanoke scenes in
the background. Dr. Junkin’s work
occupies an entire wall of the lobby
opposite the front entrance.

m NEW INSTRUCTOR in geology for
the spring semester is Samuel J.
Kozak, Jr., Danvers, Masachusetts.
A 1954 graduate of Bates College,
he will receive a master of science
degree from Brown University in
June. He was laboratory assistant
at both Bates and Brown. Dr. Mar-
cellus H. Stow, head of the geology
department here, died November
27, 1957, of a heart condition.

DR. THOMAS P. HUGHES, assistant
professor of history, was one of
seventeen historians and _ professors
who made up an advisory commit-
tee to “guide the establishment of
a research center in technology and
society and the foundation of an
organization for the history of
technology, with an accompanying
learned journal.” ‘The group met in
January at Case Institute of ‘TVech-
nology, Cleveland, Ohio, for this
purpose. Dr. Hughes was named to
the committee in 1957, along with
representatives from Harvard,
Johns Hopkins, University of Chi-
cago, M.I.T., and other universi-
ties. He was also a consultant in
the field of technology and society
for the Sweet Briar College Sym-
posium on Modern Science and Hu-
man Values in early March.

m A RESEARCH GRANT from the Fund
for the Republic has been bestowed
on Dr. J. Harvey Wheeler, profes-
sor of political science, who has
also been appointed consultant for
the Fund. The Fund was estab-
lished in the early 1950's with a
fifteen million dollar gift from the
Ford Foundation.

18

Dr. Wheeler’s duties as consult-
ant for the Fund will consist of giv-
ing aid in commissioning and eval-
uating research. He will participate
in three of the Fund’s projects,
which will involve evaluation of
documents, and some trips.

The Fund has seven large re-
search projects dealing with such
basic institutions as the corpora-
tion, religion, labor unions, com-
munications, politics, and the in-
vasion of the mind.

 

e “HELP WEEK,” REPLACING fraterni-
ties’ “Hell Week”’ activities, was ob-
served this year during the first
week in February as pledges of the
seventeen fraternities engaged in
volunteer work for worthy projects.

Main activities were solicitation
for the March of Dimes, assistance
to the local Red Cross chapter, and
help in preparing Lee Chapel for
the Toynbee lectures. Pledges col-
lected $460.21 for the polio fund,
nine dollars more than in 1957. Phi
Gam’s pledges succeeded in obtain-
ing the most money—fifty-three dol-

lars—and won a pony keg of beer
for their efforts.

The change from Hell Week to
Help Week followed a ruling of
the Board of ‘Trustees, which abol-
ished physical and mental hazing.

m= EIGHT JOURNALISM students were
signed on as news reporters and
cameramen at WSLS-TV, Roanoke,
this spring, as part of their regu-
lar academic study of the television
industry. ‘The internship program
is designed to give the students an
inside look at how programs are
prepared and televised, with em-
phasis on studying preparations
necessary for a television newscast.
The Washington and Lee “IV
News Corps” will report to the
station each Monday in time to
cover regular news beats and _ re-
write news stories for both radio
and television programs. They will
learn how to tell a story in film and
still pictures, how to splice and edit
film, and will be responsible for
airing some radio shows produced
by the news department.
Participants are Rudolph Auk-
schun, Washington, D.C.; Rob
Elder, Nashville, Tennessee; Jim
Kressler, Brooklandville, Maryland;
Avery Juhring, Ardsley-on-Hudson,

 

British historian ARNOLD J. ‘TOYNBEE, center, visiting scholar, with Dr. EpwAarp D. MyYrrs,
professor of philosophy, left, and university president Dr. FRANCIS P. GAINES.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

New York; Jerry Lindquist, Beaver,
Pennsylvania; Mike Norell, Fort
Meade, Maryland; Howard Packett,
Montross, Virginia; and Voigt
Smith, Freeport, [linois.

mw FOUNDERS’ DAY WAS observed wth
the traditional noon student assem-
bly and holiday from classes on
January 20.

President Francis P. Gaines de-
livered his annual “State of the
University’ message to students and
faculty, declaring that if George
Washington or Robert E. Lee could
speak to the university’s students
today, they might say:

“Define your responsibilities, ac-
cept your disciplines, determine
your sense of what is important in
this world, and sacrifice for it in
its behalf with everything you can
give.”

Citing a feeling of “almost unre-
lieved doom” which one encount-
ers at every turn today, Dr. Gaines
said both Washington and Lee
would certainly tell us, “Don’t lose
your faith. They in their day, sus-
tained themselves purely by faith.”

“Sooner or later,” he continued,
“there will be a final testing be-
tween the freedoms and _ enslave-
ments of the world. It will not take
place in any football bowl, but in
the economic, social and_ political
worlds, involving the spiritual for-
titudes with which men serve their
ideals.”

He also warned the students
there are no “careless boys at play”
in Russian colleges, that the Soviet
Union is deadly serious in its “grim
determination” to outstrip the free
world in education of young minds.

The one hundred and fifty-first
birthday of General Robert E. Lee
was observed Sunday, January 19.

 

m WILLIAM CRANE WASHBURN, 40, ar-
rived the first of March to begin a

WINTER 1958

four-months’ internship under Cy
Young, 717, before taking over in
July as alumni secretary. His ap-
pointment to the job, announced
by President Francis P. Gaines,
ended a long search for the man to
fill Cy’s shoes, as Cy prepares for
retirement after twenty-eight years
on the job.

Both Cy and college officials ex-
pressed themselves as extremely
pleased at Washburn’s acceptance
of the position.

Bill has been employed in ‘Tusca-
loosa, Alabama for the past eleven
years, working as sales manager for

 

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40

the Gulf States Paper Corporation
there. President of the firm is his
college roommate, Jack Warner, 40.

The new secretary was born Sep-
tember 17, 1918, in Augusta, Geor-
gia. He played tennis four years
and was co-captain his senior year.
He joined SAE fraternity at Wash-
ington and Lee, and was graduated
in 1940 with a B.A. degree in eco-
nomics. From 1940 until 1943, he
worked for Bethlehem Steel Com-
pany, shipbuilding division, in the
purchasing department at Staten
Island, New York. From 1943 until
1946, he served in the United States
Navy, as an ensign in the supply

corps. He was married in 1942 to
Elizabeth ‘Tayloe Lancaster, whose
father, Dr. Dabney Lancaster, is
ex-president of Longwood College,
Farmville, Virginia. The Wash-
burns have three sons, fourteen,
eleven, and six years old.

 

ALTHOUGH WASHINGTON and Lee’s

Moot Court team was defeated in
the national finals in December by
the University of Pennsylvania, the
brief submitted by General com-
petitors was judged best in the na-
tion. As a result, the University has
received the Harrison Tweed Bowl
for possession until next December,
and the law school library and
members of the moot court team re-
ceived gifts of law books.

Pennsylvania, which defeated
Washington and Lee in the open-
ing round of the national finals,
won the national championship.
Washington and Lee was regional
winner in the Southeast, one of 22
American law schools sending teams
to the New York finals.

This is the first time the law
school has won the national con-
test for best brief, although in 1954,
the universty’s moot court team ad-
vanced to the semi-finals before
losing to the champions from Co-
lumbia university.

Students who prepared the brief
and argued the case in New York
were: Patrick D. Sullivan, Lorton,
Virgina; Norman C. Roettger, Jr.,
Green Camp, Oho; and Charles S.
Gay, Halesite, New York. Inter-
mediates who were alternates, and
also helped write the brief, were
Dick Anderson, Gambrills, Mary-
land; Joe Knakal, Culpeper, Vir-
ginia; and James Stump, Charles-
ton, West Virginia. Student chair-
man was Robert G. McCullough,
Murfreesboro, ‘Vennessee.

THE TENTH ANNUAL ‘Tucker Law
Lectures will be held on April 18

19

 

and 1g. Subject of the series of
talks, which will be given by John
J. McCloy, prominent New York
banker and former U.S. High
Commissioner for Germany, will
be “The Lawyer As A Factor in
Business and Public Life.”

Three lectures will be given on
the program, and the annual
spring meeting of the Law School
Association will also be held. Dean
Williams urges all Law School
alumni to attend and take part in
both of these functions.

THE LAW SCHOOL was host to
the Fourth Circuit Convention of
the American Law Student Associa-

tion March 7 and 8. Senior Nor- |

man C. Roettger, Jr., Green Camp,
Ohio, is the 4th Circuit Vice-Presi-
dent, ranking student officer in the
district. Highlights of the two-day
meeting included a panel discussion
on “Expert Medical Testimony,” a
banquet dinner with the president
of the ALSA present, and a le-
gal workshop. Representatives of
twelve schools from five _ states
were in attendance.

J. HARDIN MARION, I, from
Richmond, has been named Editor
of the Washington and Lee Law
Review for the second semester.
New Associate Editors are Donald
J. Currie, New York City; Leonard
C. Greenebaum, Richmond; Nor-
man C. Roettger, Jr., Green Camp,
Ohio; and Robert E. Stroud, At-
lanta, Georgia.

The first issue of the Law Re-
view, edited by Robert G. Mc-
Cullough, will be published in the
near future. It will feature lead-
ing articles on “The Impact of
Mobile upon State Regulations of
Utilities” by Ross L. Malone, ’32;
“Corporate Buy-Sell Agreements:
Some Tax Problems in Drafting”
by Richard L. Strecker; and “‘Sec-
ond Hand Judgments—Reciprocal
Use of Judgments in Civil and
Criminal Matrimonial Cases” by
Gerhard O. W. Mueller and Leo H.
Whinery.

20

Mr. Malone is a practicing at-
torney in the firm of Atwood and
Malone in Roswell, New Mexico,
was Deputy Attorney-General of
the U.S., is a member of the New
Mexico Board of Bar Examiners,
and has served on the House of
Delegates and Board of Governors
of the American Bar Association.
Mr. Strecker is an Associate Pro-
fessor of Law at the University
of Cincinnati. Mr. Mueller is an
Associate Professor of Law at the
University of West Virginia, while
Mr. Whinery is an Associate Pro-
fessor of Law at the University of
North Dakota.

Also to be included in the Re-

view are 11 case comments by
law students, two comments on
Virginia subjects, and two book
reviews by Washington and Lee
law professors.

@ NEW OFFICERS OF the Student Bar
Association, elected in December
to serve during the second semes-
ter, were Robert L. Rhea, Staun-
ton, President; James W. Stump,
Clarksburg, West Virginia, Vice-
President; Charles S. Gay, Hale-
site, New York, Secretary; and
Robert C. Miller, Huntington,
West Virginia, Treasurer.

THE LARGEST GROUP of men _ to
enter the Law School in a Feb-
ruary class since World War II
registered at the opening of the
second semester. A total of 16
students began the study of law,
and, along with eight returning
students, law school attendance was
near its peak. Three law degrees
were awarded in February grad-
uating exercises to Harold C. Craig,

Jr., Washington, D.C.; Lynn F.

Lummus, Miami, Florida; and
Robert G. McCullough, Murfrees-
boro, ‘Tennessee.

Legal fraternity rushing season
got underway shortly after the sec-
ond semester began and was high-
lighted by an effort to revive the
Martin P. Burks Senate of Delta
Theta Phi fraternity. Leading the

efforts of the two existing groups
were Charles W. Gunn, Magister
of ‘Tucker Inn of Phi Delta Phi,
and Norman C. Roettger, Jr., Jus-
tice of Staples Chapter of Phi Al-
pha Delta.

Other activities of the Law
School include the annual Mock
Trial competition, to be staged
sometime in March, and the Burks
Competition to select the ‘out-
standing speaker in the Law
School” and to name the Moot
Court for next fall. The latter event
was to be held March 13, 14, and 15.

m™ TWO SENIOR LAW students and one
law school alumnus passed the Vir-
ginia bar examinations given in
Richmond in December.

‘They are: Mark B. Davis, Louis-
ville, Kentucky; John Hardin Mar-
ion, III, Richmond, Virginia; and
Robert H. Mann, Jr., Kansas City,
Missouri, ’57.

 

OCAL POINTS Of winter sports in-
Bic at Washington and Lee
were the individual scoring efforts
of fabulous Dom Flora and the en-
tire basketball team’s determined
but ill-fated struggle to make it to
the annual Southern Conference
‘Tournament at Richmond.

Flora, the 6-2 guard from Jersey
City, N. J., closed out his four-year
career at Washington and Lee in
brilliant fashion. Leading the
Southern Conference scoring with
a season total of 634 points and
a 25.4 average, Flora hiked his four-
year point-total to 2,310, making
him the fifth highest scorer in ma-
jor college basketball history. His
average this year ranked him in
the top ten point-makers in the
nation.

Early in January, Flora cracked
Jay Handlan’s school record of
2,002 points and then moved on to
better the Old Dominion career to-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

tal of 2,233 held by Virginia’s
Buzzy Wilkinson. His final mark
put him ahead of Furman’s Darrell
Floyd, but behind four other form-
er cage greats.

For the second year, the slim
jump-shooter was named to the
Associated Press and the Southern
Conference Sportswriters’ All-Con-
ference fives, and for the third year
he was named to the AP’s All-Vir-
ginia Bix Six honor team, the past
two years as a unanimous selection.

While Flora displayed amazing
consistency in compiling his record
showing, the Generals as a team
failed to really hit their stride un-
til late in the campaign. A 10-game
losing streak in late December and
early January, combined with a
wearying holiday schedule, kept
them out of serious contention for a
conference tourney berth until the
stretch drive in February.

Washington and Lee avenged
an earlier loss to Davidson, and
then took two games from the
young Citadel team, then in sec-
ond place in the league standing.
A pair of heart-breaking losses fol-
lowed to William and Mary, by
86-84 in the final three seconds,
and to Richmond, 80-79 in the last
15 seconds. ‘The team was playing
fine ball, but the breaks didn’t come
their way.

Then, with only one conference
game left—a home encounter with
George Washington—Coach Ween-
ie Miller’s boys had only an out-
side chance. ‘They had to defeat the
second-place Colonials, and Cita-
del had to beat Furman, the team
battling the Generals for the last
berth. With Flora playing his final
home game, the Generals upset
favored GW by 81-70. Flora drop-
ped in 29 points, and Frank Hoss,
the fine W&L center who also
wound up his four-year home
career, added 22 points while hold-
ing GW’s All-Conference center
Gene Guarilia to just five. Fans
said the game was the best played
by a W&L team in recent memory,

WINTER 1958

 

On January 9, General swimmers participated in the first intercollegiate swimming meet
held at the Greenbrier Hotel pool, and drubbed West Virginia 86-6.

better than last year’s
winners, the “‘5-Stars.”
But Furman trounced Citadel,
and the Generals were mathematic-
ally out of the tournament. Always
a good tourney team, W&L would
be absent for the first time in five
years. So with Flora, Hoss and two
other remaining scholarship ball
players playing their last, state
sportswriters predicted it would be
a long time before the Generals
made the tournament again in the
improving conference line-up.

20-game

Their final record was a so-so
g-16, with a 4-9 conference slate.

For the second year in a row,
Coach Cy ‘Twombly’s swimming
team came up with something con-
siderably better than a so-so rec-
ord. The General mermen splashed
to a splendid 7-1 dual meet record,
bringing their two-year slate to
15-2. Their only loss was to power-
ful VPI, while wins came at the ex-
pense of West Virginia, Virginia,
Davidson, William and Mary, Cath-
olic, Lynchburg, and Roanoke.

In the conference meet at Blacks-
burg, the Generals lacked the nec-
essary depth to show well, and
tied with Davidson for fourth place,
behind champions VMI, and run-
ners-up VPI and the Citadel.

Diver Art Blank is planning to
attend the national competition
at the University of Michigan on
March 27-29.

In wrestling, the Generals fared
not so well, winning only two of
a ten-match slate. Led by Co-Cap-
tains John Hollister and Gill Hol-
land, the W&L team showed prom-
ise, but little else in losing to
North Carolina, Franklin & Mar-
shall, Virginia, VPI, Duke, West
Virginia, the Citadel, and David-
son. Victories were over Gallau-
det and Wake Forest.

The rifle team was assured of a
winning season with a 6-2 mark
and two matches to fire. Among
the victims were Wake Forest,
Georgetown, George Washington,
W&M, and Davidson. Losses were
to VPI and VMI.

Dave Owen, a co-captain, com-
piled the highest average.

m WASHINGTON AND LEE athletic
teams this spring are having to do
without their competent trainer,
D. A. Davis, who was lured away by
industry in January. Coaches and
players are now taping their own
hurts on the field. Davis had been
on the athletic staff since 1953. A
new trainer will report next fall.

21

 

Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May

Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.

Apr.

Apr.

1958 Spring Sports Schedules

TRACK
96 OM eh geo cteiieee cee esd eeviepeo eet Elon, N.C.
27—The Citadel ......... ee Charleston, S. C.
11-12—Quantico Marine Relays......Quantico, Va.
14g— Guilford © veccceecccecceceeetdeesseseeer concen Lexington
16—Lynchburg cece eeeeeeeeeee Lexington
18—RichmMon cc... celeste esinenens Lexington
22—Hampden-Sydney........ Hampden-Sydney, Va.
BK DAVIGSOM, “Liccieicsdsceeccdsieeesaccroaneacteberees Lexington
29—Randolph-Macon ..........6e Ashland, Va.
9—Big Six Meet occ Lexington
g-10—Southern Conference.......... Davidson, N. C.
BASEBALL
29—Davidson 0... cece Davidson, N.C.
g1-Apr. 3—Parris Island Marine’............cee
eee ney lie ey etc tosses peice de scars Parris Island, S. C.
(W&L, St. Johns, Brooklyn, Parris Island, Cornell)
11—William and Maty ...........cceee Lexington
14—West Virginia ...... eee Lexington
16—RichMond. 0.0... eee eetee sete Lexington
1g—The Citadel .......c cee eres Lexington
21—Hampden-Sydney ou... Lexington
DO NP i iiej kgs Gedesenteivsentivevenness Blacksburg, Va.
26—George Washington ........ Washington, D.C.
28—William and Mary ............ Williamsburg, Va.
29—Richmond. o...... cee Richmond, Va.
Q—VPI oeeeeeeeeccceeseetessseesnsensnseeesaseesaees Lexington
H—VITEINNA ooo. eeeteeees Charlottesville, Va.
10—George Washington. ...........:ee Lexington
12—Lynchbufg oo. ete eeeeee eens Lexington
15—LynchbulLg oo... eee eens Lynchburg
LACROSSE
26—WilNamMs oo... eee cece eeeeeneees Lexington
2g—Dartmouth ....... es Baltimore, Md.
9—Harvard oo..cccccccccccccccsceesseeseeeseeseteesteeeeeeeneeneees
betes steseree: Hofstra College, Hempstead, N. Y.
5—Hofstra oo. eee eees Hempstead, N. Y.

Mar.

Apr.

12—Maryland .......ee College Park, Md.
1g—Johns Hopkins ........... Baltimore, Md.
P4A—DUKE occ cece ee teens Durham, N.C.
26—Mt. Washington ......... eee Lexington
80—WashingtOn oo...ecccecsceeeeeee Lexington
9—LOyO]a ooo. ee ee ete eeeeteetteeee Lexington
10—Baltimore 0.0... ees Baltimore, Md.
V7—VIUPQINIA eee eee eec eect eeteee tne eeees Lexington
GOLF
30-31—White Sulphur College ‘Tournament........
schaetgesvegeedrscdaa's White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.
LO—Lynchburg oo. cece eee eeeeeetees Lexington
14—West Virgina... ccc cece eet ects etteeeneees
De oudteacedveeersssaseteeesy, White Sulphur Springs, Va.
17—Hampden-Sydney ......c eee Lexington
21—William and Mary............ Williamsburg, Va.
94—RichMONA o.....eeeeeeeee eee Lexington
28—Virginia—VPI—WA&L............ Hot Springs, Va.
I=VPOT occ terete eeneeeeenes Blacksburg, Va.
2—George Washington—VMI—WR&L.........
speteneceunetecelederptrcnessestasngaserscenpacseagnsatedeaaes Lexington
6-7—Southern Conference .............. Danville, Va.
12—State “Tournament .............. Hot Springs, Va.
‘TENNIS

Li1—Colgate occ Lexington
L4—WesSt Virginia oo ccccccccccceceecsseesseetteeesteenteeees
secabasenseersdtacenies White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.

V7 —VIUPQUNMA occ eect eet eteeeeetees Lexington
19—Richmond 0.0... eee Lexington
P9—VPIT ieee eee ee ee eeeeceeeeeen Lexington
24—George Washington. ........ Washington, D.C.
26—William and Mary...........cceees Lexington
1—Davidson .......ccccceeeceeeeeeseseeeeeenseeees Lexington
8-10—Southern Conference....Williamsburg, Va.
14—Hampden-Sydney ...... Hampden-Sydney, Va.
V7 AVPL voce ceeese re eseeseeneeneens Blacksburg, Va.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Editorial Comment:

Harder ‘To Get in College

HE PRESENT CROP of high and
1 school students had
better awaken speedily to the edu-
cational facts of life. It is becoming
harder and harder to get into col-
lege, and many who would have
been accepted automatically a de-
cade ago won’t get in at all ten
years hence.

The vast jump in the number
of applicants, which is already mak-
ing itself felt, and the limited fa-
cilities available to this horde of
would-be matriculates, account for
the problems confronting our pros-
pective collegians. Drastic readjust-
ments will have to be made in Vir-
ginia and all other states, in order
to accommodate a reasonable pro-
portion of these young people. ‘he
situation seems certain to get pro-
gressively worse for the foreseeable
future.

Even today, colleges and univer-
sities in the Old Dominion are be-
coming more and more selective, as
they find that the number of appli-
cants greatly exceeds the available
places. A high school diploma is no
longer accepted as evidence of abili-
ty to do adequate work, either in
state-supported or privately-sup-
ported institutions. Neither is grad-
uation from a top-flight preparatory
school. ‘The recipient of a high
school or preparatory school diplo-
ma today must do more than just
pass. He must reveal definite capac-
ity and show that he is able to cope
successfully with college courses.

The privately-supported institu-
tions of higher learning are likely
to be even more selective hereafter
than their state-supported counter-
parts. They are under no political

WINTER 1958

pressure to accept boys and girls
who are graduated by the high
schools. ‘They are also less able, by
and large, than the state institu-
tions to expand their facilities to
take care of the deluge of applicants
which will soon be overflowing our
entire system of higher learning. All
of which makes almost inevitable a
further tightening up of entrance
requirements by these privately-
financed institutions.

Magazines and newspapers arc
pointing out that school officials
and parents ought by all means to
begin stressing these facts now, so
that boys and girls who have just
entered high or prep school will

realize that they won’tbe accepted
by the coleges unless they do more
than just “get by.” If this spurs
them on to greater effort, it will be
a blessing in disguise.—VIRGINIUS
DaBNEy, in the Richmond Times-
Dispatch.

University Graduates
Twelve in January

‘Twelve Washington and Lee stu-
dents finished degree requirements
on January 30, 1958, and were
awarded their degrees.

Graduates included three Bache-
lors of Laws, three Bachelors of
Science in Commerce, and _ six
Bachelors of Arts.

Thirty-nine students were drop-
ped under the Automatic Rule, of
which eighteen were freshmen, and
eleven upperclassmen.

There were fifteen new students
entering Washington and Lee for
the first time at the start of the
spring semester. Several of these
were transfers.

 

 

Name Your Candidate

In compliance with Article g of the By-Laws of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are sting below the names of the
Nominating committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Association may submit
the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board
of Trustees and for the alumni representatives on the University
Athletic Committee.

There are three vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
Trustees, and two on the Athletic Committee at the June, 1958,
meeting of the Alumni Association. Members are urged to submit
names of their candidates for these offices. ‘The Nominating Com-
mittee will close its report on April 15. Present trustees whose
terms expire this year are Ernest Woodward, II, ‘40; Park S. Rouse,
97; and Martin P. Burks, III, ’32. Present members of the Ath-
letic Committee are W. J. Driver, '25; and John H. ‘Thomas, °34.

The Nominating Committee is as follows: Edward S. Graves,
30, 407 First Colony Life Building, Lynchburg, Virginia, chair-
man; Charles F. Clark, Jr., °38, 1857 Union Commerce Building,
Cleveland, Ohio; H. Edward Rietze, ’25, 1714 Sulgrave Road,
Louisville, Kentucky.

 

 

23

Chapter News

CHARLOTTE

Alumni of the Charlotte, North
Carolina, area held a luncheon
meeting on December 30, 1957, in
honor of the five current Washing-
ton and Lee students, and five pros-
pective ones.

Officers elected were: president,
Charles L. Green, 40; vice-president,
John Schuber, ’44; secretary, James
J. White, ’51.

Bill Buice, a member of the cur-
rent freshman class, spoke at the
meeting on his impressions of
Washington and Lee. He was fol-
lowed by head football coach Lee
McLaughlin, who discussed univer-
sity affairs, including the athletic
situation.

NEW YORK

The annual dinner meeting of
alumni from the New York area
was held on November 22, 1957, at
the Princeton Club in New York
City. Over seventy-five attended.

After a cocktail hour and dinner,
officers for the coming year were
elected as follows: president, Steph-
en E. Campbell, Jr., ’41; vice- pres-
ident for New York City, E. Stuart
Epley, 49; vice-president for Up-
state New York, W. L. Webster,
12; vice-president for New Jersey,
Hugh J. Bonino, ’36; vice-presi-
dent for Connecticut, Leonard T.
Brown, ‘19; vice-president for Long
Island, Kenneth B. Van deWater,
Jv., °41; vice-president for West-
chester county, Robert E. Steele,
III, °41; secretary and treasurer,
Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20.

Clark B. Winter, °37, president
and chairman of the meeting, made
the annual New York Alumni
Golf Trophy award jointly to W. L.

24

(Whiz) Farrar, °17, and Richard
Brunn, ’42, who had tied for first
place.

Guests of honor were Dr. Fran-
cis P. Gaines, president of Wash-
ington and Lee, H. K. (Cy) Young,
‘17, Alumni Secretary, and Donald
E. Smith, director of development.
Dr. Gaines reported on the univer-
sity, and Cy Young made a farewell
address. W. L. Webster, ’12, pre-
sented Cy with an appropriate gift
from the New York alumni as a
token of their affection and esteem,
as Cy prepares to retire from his
office in June. ‘The meeting closed
with the singing of the “Swing”
and “College Friendships,” with
Leonard ‘T. Brown, ‘19, at the
piano.

* a *

Fortified by a cocktail hour and
buffet supper just before the game,
some forty members of the chapter

vigorously supported Washington
and Lee at its December 12 basket-
ball game with St. John’s in New
York.

About eight of these avid alumni,
headed by Hug Bonino, went down
to the sidelines to let the Gener-
als’ coach know that the alumni

were there in force to support the

team. Hug warmly commended the
coach on the fine squad, predicting
a decisive victory for the Generals.
It was all a fine gesture, except

they had the wrong coach—instead

of Weenie Miller, they had but-
tonholed the St. John’s mentor!

LYNCHBURG

Dr. Francis P. Gaines spoke
February 21 to about 100 Wash-
ington and Lee alumni and their
guests at Boonsboro Country Club
at the chapter's annual George
Washington birthday banquet.

Alumni secretary H. K. (Cy)
Young, who will retire in June, was
presented an engraved silver bowl
by Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, *13, in
behalf of the chapter.

The Sazeracs, student singing
group, presented a musical pro-
gram during the evening.

 

March 29-April 6
April 12

April 18

April 19

May 8-10

June 4

June 5

June 6

 

Calendar of Interest

to Alumni

Phi Beta Kappa-Cincinnati Society Convocation

Spring holidays

‘Tucker Lectures

Law School Reunion
Class Reunions

Board of ‘Trustees Meet
Baccalaureate Service

Commencement

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Building Project
Is Under Way

ORK ON WASHINGTON and Lee’s
W new dining hall and dormi-
tory project got underway one cold
November day, and has progressed
throughout the winter months slow-
ly but surely.

Bulldozers churned through the
mud, excavating for foundations
and uncovering layers of rock.
Rains and snowstorms hindered
digging operations, but by the end
of January, concrete foundations
were in place, and by mid-February,
the shape of things to come could
be clearly seen.

‘The project consists of a college
dining hall which will seat 525
persons, two dormitories housing
about forty students each, a book-
store-snackbar, and remodeling of
the present Student Union build-
ing. Contract price ts $1,209,986,
and builder is the English Con-
struction Company, of Altavista,
Virginia.

Preliminary work on the _ pro-
ject consisted of tearing down the
white frame residence on Lee
avenue, just behind the Student
Union, which for many years was
occupied by the late Judge Martin
P. Burks, ’70, former dean of Wash-
ington and Lee law school. In the
past few years, Professor J. Harvey
Wheeler and his family lived there.
A number of sizeable boxwoods
and shrubs located on the Washing-
ton street property were taken up
and “heeled in” behind Doremus
gymnasium. They will be replaced
when construction is complete.

Top photo, November, and the beginning
of the largest building project here in
some years. Second photo, December, cold
and lonely. Third photo, January, and
work ’midst snow and mud. Fourth photo,
more snow, but foundations are in place.

WINTER 1958

 

25

 

9 5 Dr. CHARLES J. BoppeLy is still

active in the ministry, and at 87 years
of age, is still preaching in Seattle, Wash-
ington. His address is 2666 37th Avenue,
S.W., Seattle 6.

O5 DANIEL CHAMBERS MILLER iS now

retired as a civil enginering teacher at
the California Institute of ‘Technology.
His address is 817 South Oakland Avenue,
Pasadena, California.

10 Louis W. BAKER retired August i,
1957, after 37 years with the Ohio In-
spection Bureau in Columbus, Ohio. He
and his wife, Mary, are both in good
health and plan a well-earned rest, some
travel, and more time to perfect his golf
game. They live at 1388 Eastview Avenue,
Columbus.

12 Dr. L. Netson BELL has retired
from practicing surgery in Asheville, North
Carolina, following recurring cardiac at-
tacks, and is now executive editor of Chris-
tianity Today, a new international relig-
ous journal which he helped to found, and
which has its editorial offices in Washing-
ton, D. C. Dr. Bell, who is evangelist Billy
Graham’s’. father-in-law, commutes to
Washington every other week. The
Grahams’ newest child, a son, was named
Nelson Graham for Dr. Bell.

1¢ LEE R. GRABILL, JR. says he is still
enjoying his retirement, and spent a few
weeks in Florida during the winter. His
address is 203 Saymoure Road, Wilming-
ton, Delaware.

22 WILLIAM FRANCIS MCCANN, with

the New York Central Railroad for the
past thirty-five years, says he spent last
summer’s vacation on the French Island

26

of St. Pierre in the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
off the southwest coast of Newfoundland.

24 W. CLiFForD SMITH is chief en-

gineer for a coke and coal company in
Big Stone Gap, Virginia. He is president
of the Chamber of Commerce, vice-presi-
dent of the Lion’s Club, president of the
Powell Valley Shrine Club, is a former
member of the town council, and serves as
a member of the planning and zoning
commission for Big Stone Gap. He is
married and has one daughter, a junior
at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.

25 Dr. CALVIN T. BURTON is president-

elect of the Virginia Society of Opthal-
mology and Otolaryngelogy. He is a
specialist in eye and ear diseases in Roa-
noke, Virginia.

26 RicHARD H. AspsotTr is credit man-

ager of the West ‘Texas Office Supply
Company, and lives at 603-C Watson,
Midland, ‘Texas. He was married on No-
vember 30, 1957, to Winifred Harlin.

LAMont LAGeTT EDGERTON is president
of J. M. Edgerton and Son Company in
Goldsboro, North Carolina, a sales and
service firm for farm machinery and other
heavy equipment.

2 WILLIAM M. Pope is vice-president

and trust officer of the National Bank
and Trust Company in Charlottesville,
Virginia. He has three sons, William, Jr.,
Jackson, and John, all potential material
for Washington and Lee, he says. Address:
1561 Dairy Road, Charlottesville.

3 2 R. W. REINHOLD is now in Karachi,

Pakistan, as Public Administration Ad-
visor to the government of Pakistan, as
ati employee of the International Coop

ANOTHER IN THE ever-growing
list of Washington and Lee authors
is Dr. Amos L. HEROLD, 0g, whose
book of recollections, ‘I Chose
Teaching” is being published this
spring.

Dr. Herold came to Washington
and Lee on a scholarship in 1906

from the Greenbrier Presbyterial

School of Lewisburg, West. Vir-
ginia. He was awarded his bachelor
of arts degree in 1909, and master
of arts degree in 1912. Later he re-
ceived a scholarship to Columbia
University, and won his doctor of
philosophy degree in 1926.)

He has taught English at~Buck-
nell, Cincinnati, Tulsa, and Texas
State College for Women. Since
1953, he has been retired, and lives
with his wife at 1209 West Eighth
Street, Austin, “Texas. They have
traveled extensively in Europe and
the United States.

Publisher of his book is the Nay-

 

lor Company of San Antonio,
‘Texas. Dr. Herold says that alumni
may write him for autographed
copies of his book, enclosing the
sum of five dollars.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

eration Administration. His wife and
youngest daughter, Dianne, are with him,
and they will remain in Pakistan for two
years at the minimum. His address is:
R. W. Reinhold, USOM, APO 74, Box K,
San Francisco, California.

RopertT B. CHAMPLIN is New Jersey direc-
tor of sales for the Philip Hano Com-
pany of Holyoke, Massachusetts, a lead-
ing manufacturer of multiple and tabu-
lating business forms. His oldest son,
Robert, Jr., is studying electrical engi-
neering at Newark College of Engineering,
and another son, George, is a sophomore
at Brown University, studying to be an
actuary. His daughter, Sally, is enrolled
at Kent Place school, and is an accom-
plished swimmer and figure skater. New
address: 31 Ox Bow Lane, Summit, New
Jersey.

34 FosTER M. PALMER says he had a

very satisfactory trip to Europe last sum-
mer. He traveled from Scotland to Yugo-
slavia and back home again to Water-
town, Massachusetts, in 65 days.

FRANCIS PATTON says he is living a peace-
ful life in Leesburg, Virginia. His oldest
son is a freshman at Princeton, and he has
a daughter who is a student at Pembroke
College. He has one more son he is saving
for Washington and Lee in about. ten
years.

3 5 JouNn E. Frienp has been elected

assistant cashier of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond, Virginia. He has been
with the bank since November 1, 1949,
when he joined the staff as asistant pur-
chasing agent. In 1950, he was made as-
sistant manager of the purchasing and
printing department, and in 1953, be-
came manager of the General Service de-
partment.

3 GEORGE RATHER JONES has been a

pilot for Braniff Airways for the past
fifteen years. He is married to the former
Eleanor Fordham of Dallas, Texas, and
they have two girls and two boys.

HOWELL Roperts’ work with the Port of
New York Authority in financial forecast-
ing and economic planning has come to
fruition with the opening recently of the
new Terminal Building at New York In-
ternational Airport. Hal says the Port
Authority is already well into a much-
needed rehabilitation program for La-
Guardia Airport now.

ALBERT A. RADCLIFFE says his third child,
Andrew Lane, was born on Pappy’s birth-
day, August 26, 1957. This makes two
boys and one girl for the Radcliffes in
Frederick, Maryland.

WINTER 1958

ARNOLD M. RAPHAEL, ’40, is vice-president
of the Chester Roth Company, manufac-
turer and distributor of men’s, women’s
and children’s hosiery. He is general man-
ager for the Esquire socks division and a
member of the board of the American
Institute of Men’s and Boy’s Wear.

39 FRANK O. GLENN, JR. is farming

at Long Beach, Washington, raising cran-
berries, blueberries, and has an English
holly orchard and a rhododendron and
azalea nursery. He also operates a can-
nery, specializing in cranberry products.
He is the father of four sons, Frank, ITI,
14; Guy, 12; Richard, 8; and Jonathan, 2.

4] ‘THEODORE A. BRUINSMA became
General Counsel of the McCall Corpora-
tion, 230 Park Avenue, New York 17,
New York. He had practiced law for nine
years at 40 Wall Street in New York. Ted
is also secretary of the corporation, having
been elected on December 17 by the Mc-
Call board of directors. ‘Ted is married
and he and his wife and four children
live in Glen Rock, New Jersey, where ‘Ted
is an active member of the school board
there.

W. L. HEARTWELL, JR. is the new mayor
of Lawrencevlile, Virginia. He has been
a member of the town council since 1948.
Besides holding the new office, he is also
president of the Brunswick County Club,
and a past president of the Virginia Re-
tail Hardware Association, and the Law-
enceville Chamber of Commerce. He is
co-author of a recently published book
on Brunswick county history. He is the
father of two sons and two daughters.

BENTON M. WAKEFIELD, JR. is the new
president of the Monroe Chamber of
Commerce in Monroe, Louisiana. He has

 

been a member of the board of directors
for the past three years, and was vice-
president in 1957. He is also district di-
rector of the U.S. Savings Bond program,
and serves cn the Board of directors of
both the United Givers Fund and the
Kiwanis Club. He is vice-president of
the Ouachita National Bank in Monroe.

+2 RoBeERT F. HUNTER, asvistant pro-

fessor of history at Virginia Military In-
stitute, was the speaker at the January
dinner meeting of the Rockbridge His-
torical Society. His subject was “The
Turnpike Movement in Virginia,” with
especial attention to Rockbridge county.
Bob spent four years with the Navy as
flight instructor and transport pilot, and
later received an M.A. degree at Univer-
sity of North Carolina. He won his Ph.D.
at Columbia University, where his disser-
tation was “The ‘Turnpike Movement
in Virginia, 1816-1860.” Bob is the father
of two boys, and twin girls, and is super-
intendent of the Lexington Presbyterian
Sunday School.

43 Dr. CHARLES L. RAST, JR. specializes
in internal medicine and cardiovascular
disease in St. Petersburg, Florida. He is
the father of two sons, Charles Lewis, ITI,
and John Lightsey. They live at 1803
Beach Drive South, in St. Petersburg.

LAWRENCE W. GALLoway is fertilizer man-
ager with Baugh and Sons company in
Bridgeton, North Carolina.

ALBERT D. DARBy, JR. is president of the
Kiwanis Club at Cumberland, Maryland,
this year. He is also past president of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce there. He
is a writer for the Cumberland News.

a5 J. Maurice MILLER, JR., counsel

for the Life Insurance Company of Vir-
ginia, has been promoted to assistant
general counsel. He was associated with
the law firm of Hunton, Williams, Gay,
Moore, and Powell, and the legal staff of
Southern States Cooperative, Inc., before
joining Life of Virginia in 1953. He is a
member of the Association of Life Insur-
ance Counsel and the American Life
Convention Legal Section.

W. WALLACE DUTTON, Jr. lives in Dunedin,
Florida, at 300 San Salvador Drive, and is
the father of three children: Wally, III,
almost seven; Jill, three: and Bruce, a
newcomer of seven months.

COLLIER WENDEROTH, JR. was named the
outstanding young man of Fort Smith,
Arkansas, by the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce there. He received the Jaycee Dis-
tinguished Service award at a dinner
January 21, 1958, before an audience of
450 persons. Collier is president of the

27

 

Midwest Feed Manufacturers’ association,
which serves eight states. He has taught
Sunday school for the past ten years, and
is a member of the boards of the Com-
munity Chest, Junior college, Girls’ Club,
4-H Foundation, Red Cross, and Exchange
club.

f 6 Davip ‘VANCE GUTHRIE, JR. iS an

Episcopal minister, having been ordained
December 13, 1957. He received his B.A.
and M.A. degrees from Washington and
Lee, and later taught at the University of
North Carolina, and at the University
of the South. He received the degree of
Bachelor of Divinity from the Virginia
Theological Seminary in June, 1957, and
since that time, has had charge of St.
John’s Episcopal church in Henderson,
North Carolina.

q 3 M. WILLIAMSON WATTS now_ has

five little income tax exemptions. The
iatest is Evelyn Barse Watts, born July
31, 1957. The score now stands _ three
girls and two boys.

JouHN E. SCHEIFLY is now associated with
the law firm of Willis, MacCracken and
Butler, with offices at 700 Statler Center,
goo Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 17,
California.

Frep L. Rusu has been appointed an as-
sistant secretary of The Hanover Bank,
New York City, after only one year with
the company. Before going to New York,
he was district general agent for National
Old Line Insurance Company, Norfolk,
Virginia, and had also served as Com-
monwealth’s Attorney of Buchanan coun-
ty, Virginia. Fred is married and has one
son, Fred, Jr. The Rushes live at 177
White Plains Road, ‘Tarrytown, New
York.

G9 Dr. E. L. TAytor, Jr., his wife,

and son, Mark, moved last July to Sparta,
North Carolina, where he is engaged in
the private practice of medicine.

THe Rev. W. C. SMITH, JR. is a graduate
theology student at Southern Baptist
Theological Seminary, pastor of a rural
church in Indiana, and father of two
children.

28

FRANK CARTER, JR. is the father of three
potential Generals, Frank, Ben, and Pen-
dleton. He is married to the former Jane
Munnerlyn, ex-Sweet Briar student. Home
address: 50 Woodcrest Avenue, N.E., At-
lanta, Georgia.

B. C. ALLEN, JR. is trust officer with
Branch Banking and ‘Trust Company,
Goldsboro, North Carolina. He is married
and has one son, Brandt.

JOHN M. PARRAMORE was graduated from
the University of Cincinnati school of
pharmacy, and is manager of a pharmacy
in Gary, Indiana. He is married and _ has
a daughter, almost two.

S. W. RAMALEY has been appointed dis-
trict manager of the Indiana district of
United States Gypsum Company. He has
been with the company since his gradua-
tion from college, and worked in Chica-
go, Harrisburg, and Washington districts.

50 CarRL G. CRrRoyYpdDER has been with

Harcourt, Brace and Company, publishers,
as a textbook salesman for the past seven
years. He is married and has three chil-
dren. Carl got his Master of Arts degree
from the University of Minnesota the year
after he was graduated from Washington
and Lee. He lives at 718 Clover Lane,
Norristown, Pennsylvania.

Rosert W. H. Misu, JR., is now associated
with the Wise and Waddell Insurance
Company in Lexington. He has repre-
sented the Sun Life Assurance Company
in Lexington since 1953. Bobby is presi-
dent of the Lexington Kiwanis Club and
is a member of the board of directors of

 

Joun A. WriuiAmson, II, °53, has been
promoted to first lieutenant at Oakland
Army Terminal, California. He heads the
Passenger Transportation branch there.

the Rockbridge National Bank. He and
Mrs. Mish have one son, aged three.

51 Davin C. G. Kerr has joined the

law firm of Macfarlane, Ferguson, Allison
and Kelly in ‘Tampa, Florida. His address
there is 4503 Dale Avenue.

W. GordON ILER is now associated with
the law firm of Norris B. Vincent and
Robert L. Gwin in Owensboro, Kentucky,
and is specializing in tax, corporate, and
labor matters.

J. T. Enciesy, II is practicing law and
living in Roanoke, Virginia. He was mar-
ried last June 15, and he and his wife
live at Route 4, Roanoke.

E. McGRuDeER Faris, JR., who was a mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee law
faculty from his graduation in 1951 until
September, 1957, iS now associate pro-
fessor of law at Wake Forest Law School.
He and his wife and two children are liv-
ing in the Wake Forest faculty apartments
adjoining the new campus in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina.

W. K. VANCE RUCKER, JR. is with the
Burlington ~— Industries, — Incorporated.
Formerly office manager at the Franklin,
North Carolina plant, he is now systems
analyst at the main offices in Greensboro,
North Carolina. His address there is 1704
Friendly Road.

WILLIAM S. Rosasco, ILI, was awarded the
“Man of the Year” placque for Santa Rosa
County, Florida, at the annual dinner
meeting of the Milton-Santa Rosa County
Chamber of Commerce meeting recently.
He served last year at the campaign
chairman of the United Fund drive. He
is vice-president of the Santa Rosa Lum-
ber Company in Milton, Florida.

Joun A. F. Hatt began practicing law
last March, and has been appointed to
the Dauphin County District Attorney’s
staff in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

WILLIAM PIERCE ROBERT, JR. iS a junior at
Baylor Medical School now. He was mar-
ried last August to Patricia Swift in
Nacogdoches, ‘Texas.

SAM B. HOLLIs is executive assistant to
Mayor Edmund Orgill of Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee. He was married last July to Jane
Green of Atlanta.

52 ‘THOMAS WILLCOX JOYNES, JR. is in

the real estate business with the firm of
Gcodman-Segar-Hogan Corporation in
Norfolk, Virginia. He won the golf cham-
pionship of the Cavalier Yacht and Coun-
try Club in Norfolk for the year 1957.

JuLraAn B. Mone was elected last June to
membership in ‘Toastmasters International
Club, an international speaking and
speechmaking club. He was 1956 and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

1957 Chairman of tennis youth activities
at Standard ‘Town and Country Club,
Atlanta, Georgia.

PAUL D. WeILL is a dealer merchandiser
for Cities Service Oil Company. operat-
ing out of the Jackson Heights, Long
Island, office. The Weills are building a
new home in Farmingdale, New York.

WitLIAM A. Swarts is sales representative
‘or Reynolds Metals Company. He mar-
ried Sarah Anne Brown on June 8, 1957
in Narrows, Virginia, and they are mak-
ing their home now in Minneapolis, Min-
nesota.

53 THe Rev. JOHN B. WHEELER was

ordained an Episcopal priest last July
by the Bishcp of Maryland, the Rt. Rev.
Noble C. Powell. On October 5, John
married Helen Chase Ward, as Bishop
Powell celebrated the Nuptial Eucharist.

Kermit HunNnpLey has been appointed
vice-president and trust officer of the
Houston Bank and ‘Trust Company of
Houston, Texas.

WILLIAM HOFFMAN has written another
book, “Days in the Yellow Leaf,” a second
novel published in January by Double-
day and Company. His first was ‘The
Trumpet Unblown.” Hoffman is the sec-
ond of Dr. George Foster’s students in
creative writing class to publish a book
recently. Reviews of the second novel by
Hoffman have been good—the New York
Times says “this is a fine, sensitive and
very moving novel. William Hoffman has
not only succeeded in making the white,
blank pages come alive but has achieved
the goal of every author; to involve the
reader in his work to such an extent that
he is no longer a reader but part and
parcel cf its lives and situations.’ Another
good review, appearing in the Springfield
Republican was written by T. K. Wolfe,
a classmate of Hoffman’s in the writing
class.

5 f ROBERT E. BRADFORD is now ad-

ministrative assistant to Congressman
Richard Poff of Virginia. He and his wife,
Margaret, and their son, Joseph Charles,
are living in Alexandria, Virginia. Bob
was news and program director at Radio
Station WRAD in Radford, Virginia, be-
fore he was called to army duty. Receiv-
ing his honorable discharge last August,
he joined the staff of Station WMAL-TV
in Washington until his recent appoint-
ment.

FRANK M. WHITING is trial attorney in
the office of the General Counsel, Federal
Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. He
received his master of laws degree in
June, 1955, from Georgetown University,
and was admitted to the bar, United
States Supreme Court, in June, 1957. He
is the father of two children, Pamela
Gayle, 6; and James Christie, two.

WINTER 1958

 

LIEUTENANT KEITH R. BELCH, 756, is as-
sistant public information officer at the
Eighteenth Airborne Corps Headquarters,
Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He earned
his paratrooper wings about a year ago,
after he had made fwe jumps.

H. J. QUINN, JR. says there’s almost an
alumni chapter at Tulane’s Medical
School. Studying there are Jappy Becker,
‘56; Marvin Meadows, ’55; Don Barbe, 54;
and himself. ‘That’s enough to make the
Swing resound through part of New
Orleans, anyway.

‘THOMAS HENRY CARTER is one of four
Kenyon Review Fellows for 1958. His pro-
ject will be a book of “three sections of
‘miscellaneous essays, held together by a
point of view. This unifying element will
consist of several related presuppositions:
that the genuine critic will deal with
achieved works of art as such; that the
arts and society are intimately connected;
that criticism must be written by readers
for readers.” Many of his essays have
already been published, and others are
being readied for publication. He is in
charge of English studies at Martinsville
High School, Martinsville, Virginia.

Dr. B. W. S. Capett, IV, was graduated
last May from the school of dentistry at
Medical College of Virginia, and is now
taking a turn in the Air Force at Langley
Field, Virginia. He is engaged to Shirley
Anne Miller of Richmond, and plans an
early wedding.

ROBERT BENNETT JACOBI is now engaged in
the practice of patent and trademark law
in Washington, D.C. He spent two years
in the army at Huntsville, Alabama, be-
fore going into law. His address is 4716
Bradley Boulevard, Chevy Chase, Mary-
land.

3. 5 LARRY LEVITAN is attending George
Washington Law school and expects to be
graduated in June.

Davin MILLER BERLINGHOF was separated
from the Army last August, and is now
employed with Cargill, Incorporated, lo-
cated in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

FORNEY R. DAUGETTE, JR., was discharged
from the Army last September 17, and is
now working for the Life Insurance Com-
pany of Alabama.

JouHN T. Huppi_e was awarded his bach-
elor of laws degree from Ohio State Uni-
versity at the autumn quarter convoca-
tion on December 20, 1957.

STEPHEN MARSHALL QUILLEN was author-
ized in December, 1957, to practice law
in Russell County (Virginia Circuit Court.
His father and his grandfather have
served as commonwealth’s attorneys for
Russell County.

56 RICHARD MARVIN JOHNSTON is tak-

ing post-graduate work at the Wharton
School of Commerce and Finance, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. His address is 9
Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh.

RusseLL BorpLEY Myers is now stationed
in Kaisirslautern, Germany as S-4 and
assistant S-1 on the Battalion staff. His
address is: Lt. R. B. Myers, 04070889, 25th
AAA Missile Battalion, APO 227, New
York, N. Y. He says that he sees a lot of
Set. Dwyer, who was formerly with the
ROTC department at Washington and
Lee, since they work very close to each
other.

DAvip HENDERSON is attending law school
at Wake Forest College in Winston-Salem,
North Carolina.

SAM SYME, JR., is a graduate student in
history at Duke University this year. He
completed a six months’ tour of duty in
the artillery last summer.

JeRRyY I. Moyer has been stationed at Fort
Leonard Wood, Missouri, taking his basic
army training under the Reserve Forces
Act.

Litoyvp Dosyns is a newscaster for Radio
Station WDBJ, Roanoke, Virginia.

LEONARD E. GOODMAN took his basic army
training at Fort Knox, Kentucky, finishing
there in October.

57 ALEX B. PLATT is presently en-

rolled in the Doctoral program of Coun-
seling Psychology at ‘Teachers College,
Columbia University. Address: 504 West
110th Street, Apartment 6B, New York
City.

Joun H. Waters is waiting word from
applications to several medical schools,
while working as medical technologist
and research associate for Dr. G. Watson
James, II, associate professor of medicine
at the Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond. His work is carried on in
Dr. James’ Laboratory for Clinical Inves-
tigation.

29

 

ARNOLD F. GWIN was commissioned a
Marine second lieutenant on December
14, 1957 at Quantico, Virginia. He is now
taking basic courses at the Quantico
Marine Base, prior to becoming an infan-
try platoon leader.

ALLEN C. MAXWELL completed the 34-
week officer’s basic course at the Marine
Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia in No-
vember, 1957.

JoHN W. SINWELL is with International
Business Machines company in Baltimore,
Maryland.

Morton P. ILER is in the business training
course of General Electric Company. In
March, he is to report to Fort Bliss, Texas
for his six months’ Army duty.

 

1919

ALFRED LANDER was married to Mrs. Lu-
cille Amen Koen on November 16, 1957,
in Dallas, Texas. They live at 7711 Mili.
tary Parkway in Dallas.

1949

KENNETH K. LINDELL was married to Mary
Agnes McGuire on December 28, 1957, in
Our Lady of Lourdes Roman Catholic
Church, Malverne, New York. Theodore
Arata, °49, was best man, and George
Arata, ’51, was an usher.

1950

Dr. WILLIAM ALBERT McCown and Bar-
bara Dale Tucker were married January
25, 1958, in St. John’s Methodist church,
Staunton, Virginia.

1951

Kirpy W. MALONE was married on No-
vember 15, 1957 to Joan Elizabeth Owens,
in the First Methodist Church, St. Peters-
burg, Florida. Dr. Bruce F. Gannaway,
’25, officiated. The groom’s father is
Baynard L. Malone, Jr., ’24.

30

NOEL P. COPEN, °57, was commissioned a

second lieutenant in the Marines on De-

cember r4, 1957, at Quantico, Virginia.

He is now in the nine-month officer basic

school at Quantico, learning to become
an infantry platoon leader.

1953

ROBERT H. WARREN, JR., and Elissa Susan
Gillert were married on November go,
1957, in All Saints Chapel, Trinity Par-
ish Church, New York City.

FRANK ALLEN McCormick and Nancy
Herr were married June 15, 1957. Frank
is stationed at the El Toro Marine Air
Station in Santa Ana, California.

1954

ROBERT ORCUTT GLASIER was married to
Veronique Lejay in Charleville, France,
on July 6, 1957. Discharged from the
Army last September, he is now employed
with the International G. E. Company in
New York City as a member of the Busi-
ness Training Program. Address: 4782
Boston Post Road, Pelham Manor, New
York.

1955

STEPHEN M. QUILLEN and Nancy J. Camp-
bell were married December 29, 1957, in
the Lebanon Baptist church, Lebanon,
Virginia.

Harry Murs Hotwins and Caroline Skip-
per were married on June 29, 1957. He
is general insurance agent with the Hol-
lins Insurance Agency, Inc., in Lake
Charles, Louisiana.

LOWELL D. HAmRic was married on De-
cember 1, 1957, to Katherine Ann Miller
at Andrew Chapel Methodist Church,
Springwood, Virginia. They are making
their home in Richmond, Virginia.

 

 

1937

Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT A. RADCLIFFE are the
parents of a son, Andrew Lane, born
August 26, 1957. They live in Frederick,
Maryland.

1942

Mr. and Mrs. Gene R. JOHNSTON are the
parents of twins, Jack and Jill, born New
Year's Day, 1958. They live at Shore Acres,
Rock Falls, [lhnois.

1943

Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR ‘THOMPSON, JR. an-
nounce the adoption of a son, Arthur
Wilson Thompson, in September, 1957,
at the age of two months. They live at
14 Marion Avenue, Staten Island 4, New
York.

1944

Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE E. BALLENGER,
Jr., are the parents of a son, Ancrum
Dean, born January 10, 1958.

Mr. and Mrs. WititiAm R. MILLer, III,
are the parents of a son, William Read,
IV, born September 13, 1957. ‘They live
at 1135 West Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. Greorce ZACK are the par-
ents of twins, born January 11, 1958. The
daughter is Lisa Daryl Zack, and the
son is Lawrence Blair Zack. They all
live at 1103 Oak Avenue, Evanston, I-
Jinois.

1947

Mr. and Mrs. Lez SILVERSTEIN are the
parents of a daughter, Janet Ellen, born
October 11, 1957. Daddy is working on
his master of laws degree at Harvard,
and they live at 25 Bay State Apartments,
1572 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge,
Massachusetts.

1950

Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp T. McMATH are
the parents of a daughter, Mary Alice,
born November 6, 1957. Ned is assistant
sales manager with Seaboard Supply Com-
pany in Onley, Virginia, a produce broke-
erage firm. ‘The McMaths have two other
children, Ned, Jr., 7; and Suzanne, 4.

1954

Mr. and Mrs. WiLttiAM D. McCHENRY are

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

the parents of a daughter, Deborah Joan,
born August 17, 1957.

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. McDONALD are the
parents of a son, John E., born Novem-
ber 10, 1957. They live at 1300 West Lake
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

1955

Mr. and Mrs. Watson A. Bowes, JR. are
the parents of a son, Watson A., III, born
in December, 1957. Watson is attending
the University of Colorado Medical School.

1957

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM LEE KAUFFMAN
are the parents of a son, William Lee,
Jr., born December 18, 1987.

 

1900

Dr. Harvey B. SAvAGE, retired physician,
died January 26, 1958, after a heart at-
tack. He had retired .in 1937, and since
that time, he was active at youth encamp-
ments in the. Paris \ Presbytery of his
church, in Texas. He was an elder in the
Presbyterian church, and a member of
Honey Grove Masonic Lodge and Hella
Temple Shrine in Dallas. Survivors in-
clude his widow and one son.

1906

WILFORD FRANKLIN RAILING died January
16, 1958, after suffering a heart attack. He
was a retired employee of the Baltimore
Gas and Electric Company, having worked
there as an engineer and assistant to the
superintendent. He was a life member of
Ben Franklin Lodge, Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons, Baltimore, Maryland.

1907

E. CLypE Hoce died on November 26,
1957, in Cincinnati, Ohio. He had founded
the Hoge-Warren-Zimmerman Corpora-
tion, a building constructing firm, in
1921, and was president and chairman
of the board.

1909

WILLIAM Henry S. NELson of Strasburg,
Virginia, died on October 16, 1957, of
cancer.

Dr. HARTWELL STANSBURY ADKINS died
October 22, 1957, of a heart condition.

WINTER 1958

1910

PHitiep ANTHONY MHERSCHER, a_ retired
banker of Charleston, West Virginia, died
July 27, 1957. He had retired June 30, 1957,
as vice-president of Kanawha Banking and
Trust Company, and had been planning
a month’s trip to Europe in September.
He had served as treasurer of the Charles-
ton Chamber of Commerce and the Red
Cross for years, and was treasurer and
past master of Kanawha Lodge 20, A.F.
and A.M., and treasurer and past high
priest of Tyrian Arch Chapter 13. He
was a member of the Shrine Patrol for 41
years.

GEORGE LEYBURN HuGHeEs died on Septem-
ber 10, 1957. He made his home in Grosse
Pointe, Michigan.

JAMES WILSON RaDER died November 7,
1957. He and Mrs. Rader had made their
heme in Charlottesville, Virginia, since
his retirement in 1953 from the National
Park Service.

1911

DANIEL BENJAMIN STRALEY died of a heart
attack at his home at Oshkosh, Wisconsin,
Nov. 26, 1957. He was a retired attorney.

1912

J. Frank Key of Buena Vista, Virginia,
died January 3, 1958, in Richmond. He
was a past president and general man-
ager of the Columbian Paper Company at
Bristol, Virginia, and a former director
of the Virginia Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion.

GEORGE ALLEN Morrow died October
26; 1957. He had’ made his-heme in
Mooresville, North Carolina.

S. O. LAUGHLIN, JR., 714

 

1913

JOSEPH GRAVES GLASS died October 6,
1957 in San Antonio, Texas.

1914

SAMUFL OTT LAUGHLIN, JR., a generous
benefactor of Washington and Lee, died
July 29, 1957, at his home in Wheeling,
West Virginia. He was president of the
Wheeling Tile Company, a member of
the board of directors and on the execu-
tive committee of the Wheeling Dollar
Savings and Trust Company, a director of
Fostoria Glass Company, Wheeling Stamp-
ing Company, J. L. Stifel and Sons Com-
pany, Stone and Thomas, Ohio Valley
General Hospital, past president and mem-
ber of the Tile Manufacturing Associa-
tion, and for many years a member of the
board of Hazel-Atlas Glass Company. His
name was listed in ““Who’s Who in Amer-
ica,’ “Who’s Who in Commerce and In-
dustry,” nd “Business. Executives of
America,” as well as “The National Cy-
clopedia of American Biography.” He was
director and vice-president of Pi chapter
of Pi Kappa Alpha corporation for many
years. He also served on the board of
trustees of Vance Memorial Presbyterian
church. During World War I, he served
overseas for twelve months, and at the
time of his discharge, was first lieutenant
and adjutant of the 339th Machine Gun
Battalion. He was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, North American Newcomen
Society of England, Fort Henry Club,
Rotary Club, and Wheeling Country
Club. Surviving are his widow. Elizabeth
Rownd Laughlin; three sons, Samuel Ott,
TI; William Philip; and David Rownd;
also one brother, Philip Ashton Laughlin
of Wheeling.

Jupce WILLIAM T. Lovins, a retired judge
of the West Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals, died December 12, 1957, after a
long illness. He had served on the Su-
preme court for sixteen years prior to his
retirement last January. He earned money
as a railroad brakeman to send himself
to law school at Washington and Lee. He
began his practice in 1915 in Kenova,
West Virginia, then moved to Huntington.
During the disastrous 1957 Huntington
flood, he was chairman of relief activities.

WALTER M. Gur ey, Jr. died September
18, 1957. He had lived in New Orleans,
Louisiana.

1918

ALEXANDER SPRUNT WATKINS died of a
heart attack on December 8, 1957. He was
head of his own building supply business
in Henderson, North Carolina, and was
past president of the Carolina Building
Supply and Lumber Dealers’ Association.
He was a deacon in the First Presbyterian
church, and past commander of the Hen-
derson post of the American Legion.

FREDERICK (“BUCKY”) SWEETLAND died on

31

February 4, 1958, of burns suffered three
days earlier when his clothing caught fire
from a cigarette he was smoking. He was
an outstanding baseball and football play-
er, and had played professional football
in Akron, Ohio. Services were held in his
home town of Everett, Massachusetts.

1924

JosepH WILSON FITrcHETT, an attorney of
Huntington, West Virginia, died on Sep-
tember 17, 1957. He had practiced law in
Huntington from the time of his gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee until his
death. He was a past president of the
Cabell County Bar Association and a
member of the American Law _ Institute.
Survivors include his widow and_ one
son, Joe, Jr.

1926

CHARLES CARTER LEE, of Rocky Mount,
Virginia, died of a heart attack at his
home on January 1, 1958. A great-nephew
of General Robert E. Lee, he was director
of several corporations in Franklin coun-
ty and was a vice-president of the Vir-
ginia Bar Association. He was a member
of the Democratic State Central Commit-
tee and was active in state politics. In
1928, when he was only 22 years old, he
Was appointed to succeed his late father
as Franklin county’s commonwealth’s at-
terney, and was at that time the youngest
prosecutor in Virginia. He was elected to
the office for four terms, and in 1947,
declined to run for re-election.

1929

Dr. YEADON Mazyck Hyer died on Jan-
uary 29, 1958. He made his home in
Charleston, South Carolina. His wife
died six weeks before his demise.

193%

JOSEPH HOWARD ‘TOWNSHEND, died on De-
cember 17, 1957, of a self-inflicted bullet
wound. He had shown nervous strain and
was despondent over his health, friends
said. He and his father were co-owners of
Townshend ‘Traffic Service in Memphis,
‘Tennessee.

1933

WILLIAM BERNARD KENNEDY of Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, died on November 10,

1957-

1940

HERBERT LinpsAy LITTLE, 39, of Spartan-
burg, South Carolina, died on December

23, 1957-

1945

WaTKINS W. REYNOLDS, JR., 35, member
of a prominent Texas cattle family, died
December 28, 1957, in Fort Worth, Texas,

32

after an illness of nine months. He was
manager of the Dalhart ranch of the
Reynolds Cattle Company, and was a di-
rector in the construction firm of T. S.
Byrne, Inc. He was also a director of the
Texas Sheep and Goat Raisers’ Associ-
ation.

1950

Lr. HERMAN K. TRAMMELT., ITT, died in a
plane crash over Delaware Bay near
Dover, Delaware, in early September, 1957.
He was squadron leader of.a flight forma-
tion taking off in F-89 Scorpion jet fight-
ers, When another plane coming in from
the side rear, collided with his plane.
Lt. ‘Trammell’s radar observer and_ the
pilot and observer in the other plane
all parachuted into the bay and were
picked up by fishing boats, but Herman
went down with his plane. His body was
recovered later in the bay on September

6, 1957.

1952

FREDERICK Ross LARSON, who practiced
law in Roanoke, Virginia, from his
graduation in 1952 until last August, was
found dead near Saluda, Virginia, on
December 27, 1957. Police said he died
of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He had
moved to Norfolk, Virginia, in August to
become associated with Allstate Insurance
Company. Surviving are his wife and a
son.

Next Issue Will Have
Special Supplement

A special supplement on U.S.
higher education in 1958 1s com-
ing in the spring isue of The Alum-
nt Magazine. Alumni magazine
editors and publishers throughout
the country have joined in_ this
first cooperative effort to tell the
story of American higher educa-
tion in a dramatic and panoramic
way.

In 32 pages of pictures and text,
the supplement will present the im-
mense diversity of higher educa-
tion in its variety of objectives, its
problems, its restlessness, and its
new approaches. The text has been
written by a group of alumni edi-
tors who have been at work for
more than a year. One of the coun-
try’s leading photographers, Erich
Hartmann of Magnum, has taken
the pictures. The supplement will
appear in more than 150 alumni
magazines whose combined circu-
lation 1S 1,300,000.

 

Dates so .5 os en ocd:

 

NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS

weer ee more oeeeresreeesrerersereseaereeseoeeZrosereeseoee 000008

Se eseceeesesereosreseesoeeseesceeesexaoeeeeoeseesesreoreexenee¢e®

Cees eee ee sesesrerser seers eseeesereeeseeeeEeoesesreoeoesEeeoEeseeeEoH EF EF oe FF oH aH HE EEE S EDEL OOOH EE OEE EROS

New AdALPeSS.............ccccceccecceceeceeeues

CeCe eT CORSET EOHEEH EEE E CH HOB EATEOT ESO HES ES HREOEEOSOEEC HOC BELO Oe

oeoeeeeee ees eseereereaseereseeseres es FeeeeE ZEEE BETTE SECO HET ER EE EERE HHO OOH EEE HES HES HSOH HEROES HOHEOES

‘Town, State

News about yourself for Class Notes? ......0c ccc eccececeeeneeeeeneeeeeeees

COSTER SEO S HEE ESSE ECE ESHOHE SCS EE RES ESET EEHE SESE OTE ESET SOO EESES HEE HOEESEHTEEE ORE HOHTECHOHROOEHHOOEE HEH HEE COSHH HOSH ROSES ECEEOEBECE EOS

Ce eerereeeceerereseereeeeceeeseeeeEereeseeeessEeeeeeeooeesesoe

Ce Oe ee ee ee ee ee

Seer se eeees ee serer tener e see eeertteeesF Pees eee eeSHESEHE SHES E SET EHEHESTHETE HEHEHE SESH HKEOOSHE SE HEE ESEHHREC EE HEHEHE OEE EO EH SELES

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
Wedgwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $20.00 per set
(in Blue only
F.0.B., Lexington, Virginia

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry). A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $27.00, f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

