 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The Case

for

  

Faculty Salaries

University

News

_ January 1956

 

Class Agents tor 1956

1887-1905—Alumni Office

1906 —F. R. Crawford, M.D., Box 208, Farmville, Virginia

1907 —C. C. Crockett, Stubbs Building, Dublin, Georgia

1908-A—Philip P. Page, Amherst, Virginia

1908-L—Hiram M. Dow, Box 547, Roswell, New Mexico

1909-A—J. Preston Irwin, 18681 Rivercliff Drive, Cleveland 26,
Ohio

1909-L—The Rev. R. Allen Brown, 9501 9th Street, E.O.V.,
Norfolk 3, Virginia

1910-A—Chas. P. Robinson, 810 Park Building, Pittsburgh 22,
Pennsylvania

1910-L—Hugh R. Hawthorne, 122 East 42nd Street, New
York 17, New York

1911-A—Henry C. McGavack, 35-55 80th Street, Jackson
Heights 72, New York

1911-L—Herman A. Sacks, National Bank of Commerce
Building, Norfolk, Virginia

1912-A—J. J. Kelly, Jr., Big Stone Gap, Virginia

1912-L—Henry L. Crowgey, Box 43, Emory, Virginia _

1913-A—Lewis Twyman, 999 S.W. First Street, Miami, Fla.

1913-L—T. R. Bandy, Box 626, Kingsport, Tennessee

1914-A—Col. Paul J. B. Murphy, “Kolosandra,” College Park,
Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—James N. Daniel, P.O. Box 67, Chipley, Florida

1915-A—G. R. Shaw, Radio Corporation of America, Harri-
son, New Jersey

1915-L—W. A. Keleher, Attorney at Law, 720-726 First Na-
tional Bank Building, Albuquerque, New Mexico

1916-A—R. Preston Hawkins, Jr., M.D., Clifton Forge, Va.

1916-L—Lycurgus Hyre, Box 392, Buckhannon, W. Va.

1917-A—Col. Charles R. Stribling, Missouri Military Academy,
Mexico, Missouri

1917-L—Harry V. Campbell, P. O. Box 1513, Charleston 25,

West Virginia
—Allein Beall, Jr., P. O. Box 618, Helena, Arkansas
—The Rev. Joseph B. Livesay, P. O. Box 257, Center
Moriches, Long Island, New York

1920-A—William E. Johnston, P. O. Box 520, New Orleans,
Louisiana

1920-L—Joseph M. Glickstein, P. O. Box 1086, 512 Barnett
Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida

1921-A—Frank M. Pollock, 370 Withers Building, Norfolk
10, Virginia

1921-L—D. Boone Dawson, Box 1405, Charleston, W. Va.

1922-A—Chas. M. Campbell, 120 Main Street, Vincennes,
Indiana |

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 930 N. Irving Street, Arlington 1,
Virginia

1923-A—Weldon T. Kilmon, 1207 Roundhill Road, Baltimore
18, Maryland

1923-L—John G. Ragsdale, 519 Lion Oil Building, El Dorado,
Arkansas

1924-A—The Rev. Robert B. Campbell, Episcopal Rectory,
Hickory, North Carolina

1924-L—J. Hampton Price, 206 Henry Street, Leaksville,
North Carolina

1925-A—Henry K. Hill, 654 Starks Building, Louisville, Ky.

1925-L—Thomas R. Nelson, Box 397, Staunton, Virginia

1926-A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., Air Reduction Pacific
Co., 2861 Leonis Blvd., Vernon 58, California

1926-L—W. Hill Brown, Jr., P. O. Box 7, Manassas, Virginia

1927-A—Luther H. Redcay, Isle of Que, Selinsgrove, Pa.

1927-L—G. Carlton Walters, 430 Langley Avenue, West
Hempstead, New York

1928-A—Van Alen Hollomon, Majectic Theatre Building, Dal-
las, Texas

1928-L—Bernard J. Wagner, 3334 Chase Avenue,
Beach, Florida

1929-A—Graham N. Lowdon, 908 Greenhill Avenue, Wilming-
ton, Delaware

1929-L—Alumni Office

1930-A—W. H. Hawkins, 206 Country Club Drive, Wilming-
ton 3, Delaware

1930-L—W. W. (Mike) Palmer, 1605 Transit Tower, San
Antonio 5, Texas

1931-A—Stuart Sanders, P. O. Box 615, Richmond, Virginia

1918
1919

Miami

1931-L—Wm. A. Glasgow, Union Trust Building, Washing-
ton 5, D.C.

1932-A—Thomas W. Hancock, Morocco, Indiana

1932-L—James S. Shields, 1104 Exchange Building, Memphis,
‘Tennessee

1933-A—Edwin W. Chittum, 148 Granby Street, Norfolk 10,
Virginia

1933-L—J. Hoge Tyler, III, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia

1934-A—John Dillard Battle, Jr, M.D., 14311 S. Woodland
Road, Shaker Heights, Ohio

1934-L—E. Rodney Massie, Jr., P. O. Box 545, Room 1, First
National Bank Building, Clifton Forge, Virginia

1935-A—Allen Harrelson, Jr., R.F.D. 1, Middle Road, Glen-
shaw, Pennsylvania

1935-L—Edwin T. Coulbourn, P. O. Box 627, Suffolk, Va.

1936-A—Richard T. Scully, One Grand Street, Hartford, Conn.

1936-L—Charles B. Cross, Jr., 210 Law Building, Portsmouth,
Virginia

1937-A—Latham B. Weber, 821 Front Avenue, Salamanca,
New York

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, c/o J. Goldsmith and Sons Co.,
123-137 So. Main Street, Memphis, Tennessee

1938-A—Seth N. Baker, Public Relations Dept., Smith, Kline
& French Laboratories, Philadelphia 1, Pa.

1938-L—Dan Wilkinson, Box 257, Newport News, Virginia

1939-A—T. W. Bradley, Jr., 62 Lee Gardens, Bristol, Virginia

1939-L—Edgar L. Smith, Box 911, Lewisburg, West Virginia

1940-A—Uriah F. Coulbourn, Box 45, Windsor, N. C.

1940-L—Edwin J. Foltz, 917 Black Rock Road, Gladwyne,
Pennsylvania

1941-A—C. H. Chapman, Jr., P. O. Drawer 887, Dothan, Ala.

1941-L—Louie A. Paterno, 404 Security Building, Charleston,
West Virginia

1942-A—Sidney Isenberg, M.D., 101 Third Street, N.E., At-
lanta 8, Georgia

1942-L—James A. Pine, 21 W. Pennsylvania Avenue, Towson,

Maryland

1943 —Calhoun Bond, 341 N. Calvert Street, Baltimore 2,
Maryland

1944 —George T. Wood, 2634 Landor Avenue, Louisville
5, Kentucky

1945 —H. Wise Kelly, Jr., Box 446, Fairfax, Virginia

1946 —George Stott, 242 Davey Street, Bloomfield, N. J.

1947. —William T. Romaine, 1262 Huntington Avenue,

Huntington, West Virginia

1948-A—Johnson McRee, Jr., Box 229, Manassas, Virginia

1948-L—David B. Cofer, Jr., Box 325, College Station, Texas

1949-A—William H. Leedy, 15 W. 10th, Room 1200, Kansas
City, Missouri

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 1129 Delray Drive, Birming-
ham 9, Alabama

1950-A—C. William Pacy, 169 Stanmore Road, Baltimore 12,
Maryland

1950-L—Philip M. Lanier, Law Department, Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Company, Ninth & Broadway,
Louisville, Kentucky

1951-A—Upton Beall, 824 Fair Foundation Building, Tyler,
‘Texas

1951-L—F. Bert Pulley, Courtland, Virginia

1952-A—Gideon N. Stieff, Jr., 108 Ridgewood Road, Balti-
more 10, Maryland

1952-L—J. B. Yanity, Jr., 207
Athens, Ohio

1953-A—Leonard B. Ranson, Jr., 905 Sixth Street, Durham,
North Carolina

1953-L—Robert S. Goldsmith, Jr., Peoples Federal Savings
and Loan Association, 101 S. Jefferson Street, Roa-
noke, Virginia

1954-A—Wiley Wright, Jr., 22-B Hillside Terrace, Lexington,
Virginia

1954-L—L. C. Musgrove, P. O. Box 1868, Roanoke, Virginia

1955-A—Lowell D. Hamric, 3206 W. Franklin Street, Rich-
mond, Virginia

1955-L—Gray C. Castle, 3513 South Stafford Street, Arling-
ton, Virginia

Security Bank Building,

 

Appalachian—Albert G. Peery, ’32, Tazewell, Vir-
ginia
Augusta-Rockingham—Fred O. Funkhouser, ’34,

Harrisonburg, Virginia
Atlanta—Rodney Cook, ’46, 40 Pryor Street, N.W.

Baltimore—David E. Ryer, ’51, 225 Stanmore Road
Birmingham—W. Bestor Brown,’30, Liberty Na-
tional Life Insurance Company
Charleston, W. Va.—Ruge P. DeVan, ’34, United
Carbon Building
Chattanooga—Rody Davenport, ’50, 216 Stephen-
son Avenue
Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnetka Trust
& Savings Bank, Winnetka, lllinois
Charlotte—Herbert Woodward, Jr., ’41, 3916 Shel-
lon Place 7
Cincinnati—Jack L. Reiter, ’41, 1020 Union Trust
., ’88, 1857 Union

Building —
Cleveland—Charles F. Clarke, Jr
'21, 422 Ma-

ommerce Building
inia—R. Paul Sanford,

Danville, virg
sonic Building
E. Tucker,

Florida West Coast—W.
Professional Building, Tampa
Gulf Stream—L. L. Copley, ’25, Security Building,
Miami, Florida
Houston—A. Milton Morrison, ’38, 2323 Fannin
Street
Jacksonville—David W. Foerster, '51, Atlantic Na-
tional Bank Building
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 15 W. 10th Street
Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, Kentucky
Home Life Building

Lynchburg—C. Lynch Christian, Jr
Mid-South—Harry Wellford, ’47, Commerce Title

Building, Memphis, Tennessee
, 87, 65 Broadway

New York—Clark B. Winter
New Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, '’30, Jahncke Serv-

’48, Stovall

, 44, Box 638

ice
New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Moran, '13,
Beckley, West Virginia
Norfolk—Gilbert R. Swink, '35, National Bank of
Commerce Building
North Texas—John M. Stemmons, '31, 401 Repub-
lic Bank Building, Dallas
Northwest Louisiana — Richard Eglin, °44,.
Shreveport, Louisiana
37, Jamestown _

Peninsular—Parke S. Rouse,
Road, Williamsburg, Virginia

Philadelphia—William L. Leopold, ’39, 133 Pelham -
Bina M. Pullen, 36, 203 Southeastern |
Building, Greensboro, North Caroli ina.
Pittsburgh—Anthony E, D’Emilio, Jr., ‘41, 702
Frick Building
Richmond—Don Fergusson, ‘ol, 802 Insurance
Building a
Roanoke—William B. Hopkins, ’42, Boxley Build-
ing
W. Goode, Jr., ’48, 407-09

San Antonio—John
outh Texas Building
"21, 4144 Lindell

Ss

St. Louis—John L. Patterson,
Boulevard

Tri-State—T. J. Mayo, ’31, Box 1672, Huntington,
West Virginia

Upper Potomac—William L. Wilson, Jr., ’38, 525
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C.—Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr.,

"41, You Street, N.W.

JANUARY, 1956
Vol. XXXI
No. 1

Application to change the frequency of issue of the

Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine from four
times per year in the months of March, June, October

and December to four times per year in the months
“of January, April, July and October has been filed

at the Post Office at Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

Printed at the
Journalism Laboratory Press
of Washington and Lee - University

Editor
Harry K. (Cy) YounG, 1917

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC
President

JOHN F. HENDON, 1924

Vice-President
STUARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928

Secretary
Harry K. (Cy) YounNG, 1917

Associate Secretary
JAMEs H. PRICE, JR., 1941

Treasurer -
HL L. Suuey, 1924

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun IF. HENDON, 1924
WILLIAM L. WEBSTER, 1912
H. L. SHUEY, 1924

MartTIN P. Burks, III, 1932
STuARD A. WURZBURGER, 1928
Hlowarp W. DosBIns, 1942
PARKE S. ROUSE, 1937

ERNEST Woopwarb, II, 1940

The Case

OL

aculty

alaries

$ THE RECENT GREAT GIFT of the
Ford Foundation demonstrat-
ed so dramatically, the time is past
due for looking critically at the sal-
aries paid to those who teach in the
nation’s colleges. ‘This certainly ap-
plies to Washington and Lee, too;
all the proof that 1s needed lies in
the fact that despite salary increases
between 1946 and 1955, the gross
purchasing power of the average
full professor in the latter year was
but 86 per cent of what it was in
1939. Putting it another way; while
the consumer price index was in-
creasing 92 per cent over its
1939 level, the average salary of a
full professor at the University was
increasing only 65 per cent.

The average associate professor
at the University has fared little
better; his gross purchasing power
during the same period has been re-
duced to 88 per cent of what it
was in 1939. Assistant professors
have gained 5 per cent on the cost

2

of living increase. Only in the in-
structor rank, however, has the bal-
ance tipped appreciably in favor of
the teacher; here 1955 purchasing
power was 18 per cent greater than
it was IN 1939.

In a recent editorial which it
gave wide publicity, the McGraw
Hill Publishing Company viewed
the problem nationwide. “From
1940 through 1954,” the editorial
noted, “the real income of the aver-
age industrial worker (that is, what
his wages would purchase in goods
and services) has increased by al-
most one-half. Among professional
groups, physicians have enjoyed an
increase of about 80 per cent in
their real income. Lawyers, far less
favored financially, have had an
increase of about 10 per cent, but
faculty members have not only had
no increase at all; over these years
of prosperity their average real in-
come has fallen by 5 per cent.”

Facts such as these cannot be

shrugged off with a casual, “Well,
they knew what they were getting
into when they decided to teach.”
That attitude denies too many sig-
nificant facts—

—that the strength of America
rests on a foundation of education,
and that Washington and Lee’s
faculty members make a very impor-
tant contribution to the sturdiness
of that foundation. Reference to
Report of the President to the
Alumni and to recent issues of the
Alumni Magazine will furnish
ample evidence of this fact.

—that our faculty members are
human beings who possess the same
desires as others for some of the
finer things of life, for a comfort-
able home, and above all, for the
financial ability to send their chil-
dren to college—

—that many faculty members
have continued to teach at a real
sacrifice to themselves and_ their
families, and by this financial sac-
rifice have been subsidizing Wash-
ington and Lee and every student
coming under their tutelage.

‘THE PROBLEM OF PROVIDING ade-
quate faculty salaries at Washing-
ton and Lee is one of both magni-
tude and urgency. It embraces the
necessity of restoring lost purchas-
ing power, of meeting existing com-
petition among colleges for obtain-
ing and retaining able faculty mem-
bers, and of satisfying the require-
ments for additional personnel
with which to.divide the Universi-
ty’s teaching loads more fairly and
to make its teaching more effective.
The special Committee on Faculty
Salaries and Benefits, one of num-
erous committees. working in con-
junction, ,. with Washington and
Lee’s ‘Development Program, em-
phasized very strongly: but addi-
tional’ funds are needed now to
meet conditions that exist today.

Moreover, -it predicted very con-
vincingly that:the years ahead will
see a growing disparity between
supply and demand in the ranks of
able teachers;,: swith the result that it
will become increasingly dificult

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

to maintain a teaching staff of high
competence. According to conser-
vative estimates, the size of the na-
tion’s college student body will
double by 1970. Expanding institu-
tions will be seeking the very best
teachers, and in large numbers. ‘To
meet this demand, it is estimated
that it will be necessary to recruit
7,900 college teachers annually be-
tween 1960 and 1970. This does not
take into consideration the need for
replacing teachers who will die, re-
tire, or leave the profession for
other work. In 1951 and 1952, when
the study yielding the statistics just
mentioned was made, only 5,587
doctorates were awarded by Ameri-
can colleges, and certainly not all
of the recipients went into college
teaching.

The extent of the competition
for teachers that faces Washington
and Lee is clear. Its significance is
underscored by the fact that out of
the University’s present faculty of
7g men, 18 will reach retirement
age within the next decade, and
another 13 by 1970. In replacing
these persons, and those who mav
leave tor other reasons, the Uni-
versity not only must meet the
“normal” competition posed by
other institutions experiencing sim-
ilar needs, but it must meet the in-
tense “abnormal” competition cre-
ated by the expanding demands of
business and industry and by the
great need for teachers to serve the
flood of young people already born
and headed for our nation’s col-
leges.

MANIFESTLY, THERE ARE two
stages in the solution of the faculty
salary problem. The first is imme-
diate, and calls for sufficient funds
with which to restore as greatly as
possible the purchasing power
which faculty members have lost,
and with which to meet the present
competition among colleges for dis-
tinguished faculty members. The
second is concerned with the future
and will require the steady procure-
ment of additional funds with
which not merely to maintain fac-
ulty purchasing power in view of

JANUARY 1956 |

 

 

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

To the Alumnt:

On December 12 Washington and Lee was named one of the
beneficiaries of the largest single gift in philanthropic history. I
refer, of course, to the Ford Foundation’s 500 million dollar grant,
of which 210 million is to be added to the endowments of the
Nation’s independent colleges for the specific purpose of improv-
ing faculty salaries. From this, and from an earlier 50 million
dollar Ford Foundation grant, Washington and Lee will receive
a total of $516,000.

It is impossible to over-estimate our gratitude for this mag-
nificent gift. It is deep and sincere.

In accepting the Foundation’s beneficence, we accept also two
obligations. Obviously, the first is to use the income from this gift
to improve teaching salaries. ‘he second, in some ways the more
important obligation, is to use this gift as testimony to every friend
of higher education that the need to improve the income of those
who teach in our colleges is critical, and that the need is far beyond
the ability of this great Foundation gift to satisfy.

With the latter obligation in mind, I shall note these facts. As
endowment, the gift which we have received will earn perhaps
$21,000 to $24,000 a year, which in turn will enable current teach-
ing salaries to be increased, on the average, four or five per cent.
Despite numerous increases granted during the past few years,
Washington and Lee’s immediate salary needs (in all branches of
our operations) are nearly three times that which this Foundation
grant, as endowment, will produce. Our longer range salary needs
are even more pronounced; to meet them it is estimated that the in-
come on at least another two million dollars in endowment will be
required.

For these reasons, therefore, the current efforts of the alumni
to add appreciably to the Alumni Fund, the desire of the parents
to assist through their newly inaugurated Parents’ Fund, and the
work of the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges take
on added importance. In such measure as each achieves its ob-
jective, Washington and Lee will be able to progress toward the
goal to which the Ford Foundation so dramatically has pointed

the way.
Buncra [out th

FRANCIS P. GaInEs, President

 

 

what probably will be a continu-
ing rise in the cost of living, but
far more important, with which to
meet the critical situation wherein

the demand for teachers of compe-
tence will far exceed the supply.

Work is going forward to secure
the necessary funds.

University
ae

 

N EARLY JANUARY President Fran-
I cis P. Gaines announced that
year-end gifts to Washington and
Lee had totaled $1,291,655. “hese
funds mark a substantial step to-
ward achievement of the Univer-
sity’s $8,000,000 goal for long-range
development. ‘They either had been
received by the University or had
been announced to it since Sep-
tember 1, 1955. Included in the
total were the $516,000 grant re-
cently announced by the Ford Foun-
dation (see pages 3 and 14 for re-
lated articles) and a previously dis-
closed $250,000 gift from an anony-
mous donor to establish the Robert
EK. Lee Scholarships.

Pointing out that the gifts were
’ Dr. Gaines
emphasized that the total did not
include donations received annually
through such regular channels as
the Alumni Fund or the newly es-

of a “special nature,’

tablished Parents’ Fund, or from
the Virginia Foundation for Inde-
pendent Colleges. In his “State of
the University” message to the fac-
ulty and students on Founders’ Day,
he reported that donations through
these sources were heartening and
should provide new _ highs for
alumni and corporate giving.

Among the special gifts the larg-
est single donation was from Mrs.
Jessie Ball duPont of Wilming-
ton, Delaware, for $368,000. Ex-
clusive of this amount, her previous
donations to Washington and Lee
approximate $3,000,000. |

Other amounts received were
$88,000 from three members of
the University’s Board of Trustees,
$3,500 from the Standard Oil Com-
pany of New Jersey, $2,000 from
the Eastman Kodak Company, and
$9,155 in miscellaneous gifts, in-
cluding a number of donations from
newspapers for journalism depart-
ment use. ‘Iwo previously announc-
ed bequests of $30,000 and $25,000
were also part of the total.

Dr. Gaines added that the money
would be used “principally for the
permanent funds, with special ref-
erence to scholarships and salaries.

“Our gratitude for these magnifi-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

cent gifts is deep and sincere,” he
declared. "It is the fervent hope of
these benefactors that their gifts
will serve to stimulate this Univer-
sity to greater effort in meeting the
goals that have been set for its
continuing development. We pledge
ourselves to work unceasingly to
that end.”

Dr. Gaines pictured the gifts as
a substantial step toward achieve-
ment of the initial goals of Wash-
ington and Lee’s Development Pro-
gram now in its third year under the
direction of Donald E. Smith. These
goals, established through careful
study and approved by the Board
of Trustees in June 1954 call for an
additional $4,300,000 in endowment
(or the equivalent in assured an-
nual income) for faculty salaries,
scholarships, the library, and gen-
eral operations. Another $4,000,000
will be needed for capital expendi-
ture for improvement and expan-
sion of the physical plant.

The growing contributions of
Virginia corporations drew praise
and thanks from Dr. Gaines in his
Founders’ Day talk. He said that
the Virginia Foundation for Inde-
pendent Colleges, of which Wash-
ington and Lee is one of the twelve
members, had received a total of
$271,000, during the last calendar
year. Washington and Lee’s share
in this sum is roughly one-tenth.

FACULTY

m THE RESIGNATION OF Dr. James G.
Leyburn as Dean of Washington
and Lee University was announced
October 25 by President Francis P.
Gaines. Dr. Leyburn will continue
his administrative duties until his
successor takes office, and beyond
that will remain at Washington and
Lee on a special George Washing-
ton Professorship established by the
gift from an anonymous donor.

The University’s Board of Trus-
tees accepted Dean Leyburn’s resig-
nation with regret at its regular
meeting on October 21. The Board
promptly elected him to the special
teaching position and immediately

JANUARY 1956

authorized the President to proceed
with the recommendation of a new
dean. At the January faculty meet-
ing, Dr. Gaines reported that prog-
ress toward selection of Dr. Ley-
burn’s successor was being made but
added, ““We’re in no hurry.”

“In recent years,’ Dr. Leyburn
said in explaining his decision, “I
have been unable to resist the temp-
tation to take on an _ increasing
amount of teaching, and the more
I taught, the more I realized my
first love was teaching. The time
had come when I had to make a
choice between administration and
the classroom, and so, regretfully,
I have resigned the deanship.”

Dr. Leyburn currently is teach-
ing two courses in ancient history
and one in anthropology. ‘Total en-
rollment in his classes is 165 stu-
dents, making his teaching load
among the largest of any at Wash-
ington and Lee.

In announcing this resignation to
the faculty, Dr. Gaines paid tribute
to Dr. Leyburn’s contributions to
Washington and Lee and to his
teaching effectiveness. “I speak
with certain knowledge,” he said,
“when I say that he has made a
contribution of high importance
to Washington and Lee as dean. He
has labored with unusual intelli-
gence and with full conscience. I be-

 

LEYBURN

With unusual intelligence, full conscience

lieve that all of my colleagues rec-
ognize in him an_ exceptionally
fine teacher and share my pleas-
ure that he is to continue as a
member of our group.”

Dr. Leyburn came to Washington
and Lee in 1947 from Yale Univer-
sity where he had taught for twen-
ty years and had risen from in-
structor to full professor of soci-
ology. He holds A.B. and A.M. de-
grees in economics from ‘Trinity
College of Duke University, an
A.M. degree in economics from
Princeton University, and received
his Ph.D. in sociology at Yale in
1927. He is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Sigma Xi, and Omicron
Delta Kappa.

Dr. Leyburn was professor of
economics and sociology at Hollins
College from 1922-24, and instruct-
or in economics and social institu-
tions at Princeton from 1924-25.
During 1943-44 he served as prin-
cipal mission officer of the Lend-
Lease Administration in Johannes-
burg, South Africa.

He is the author of four volumes,
including The Haitian People, for
which he won the Anisfield-Wolf
Award in 1941 as the best published
work on racial relations. He also
has been a frequent contributor to
scholarly publications in the field
of sociology.

His father graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1884, and his
great grand-father served as rector
of the University’s Board.

TRUSTEES

m CLIPPINGS FROM Two French news-
papers have come to the Alumni
Secretary which will be of interest
to some of the Washington and Lee
family. On October 8, L’Est Re-
publicain and Le Republicain Lor-
rain, published at Nancy and Metz,
respectively, gave half-page reports,
with press pictures of the occasion,
of an official ceremony granting
the keys to the City of Custines to
James R. Caskie, 06, Rector of the
University Board of Trustees.

Mr. Caskie was stationed at the
small town of Custines thirty- seven

: 5

years ago during World War I.
He came to love the place and the
people, and to make many friends
there; so much so that he has sung
the praises of the French, of Lor-
raine, and of Custines ever since,
until, says one of the clippings,
he has become known by the name
of “Monsieur Custines” to many
of his friends.

When he returned to France last
fall to attend an international con-
ference of the iron industry as Di-
rector of Lynchburg’s Glamorgan
Pipe and Foundry Company, Mon-
sleur André Grandpierre, _ presi-
dent of Glamorgan’s associate in
France (and incidentally the uncle
of Jean-Marie Grandpierre, a cur-
rent Washington and Lee senior),
made arrangements for him to visit
his old haunts.

‘He was welcomed by the Mayor
and Council and other dignitaries
in front of the City Hall, and then
conducted to the new schoolhouse,
where speeches by the Mayor and
Mr. Caskie were in order, and duly
made, and in French, too! The
Mayor presented him with a parch-
ment naming “James Randolph
Caskie an honorary citizen of the
City,’” but reminded him that: he
would find. things quite different
after thirty-seven years. The reply
by the new citizen, who according
to the accounts was “visibly moved”
and spoke French “correctly” but “a
little hesitatingly,” told of his grati-
tude for the honor and of his joy
in again visiting Custines.

And indeed he found that things
had changed. For example, at the
end of the village a mother stood
at the door of her house. She was
recognized by the visitor, “Why, it’s
Germaine!” (Mlle. Germaine, who
became Mme. Brevert.)

“You've gained weight,” observed
the lady of Custines.

“You, not I! I used to eat at your
house.”’

“We have folks in America. My
husband’s sister has been there
thirty-three years. Her son is a pro-
fessor.”

Then there was the young lady,

Mademoiselle Emilienne Nekar, to
whose family he had written “sev-
eral times.” She is now a grand-
Mme. Dubois, and _ her
grandson was with her. When
‘Monsieur Custines”’ visited his for-
mer billet he was greeted by his
landlady, a white haired octogener-
ian leaning on a cane; in the old
days she was Mme. Rossi, but is now
the widow Toiller. (Those French
ladies seem to do very well in spite
of the shortage of men in France.)

mother,

LAW SCHOOL

m IN AN ATTEMPT TO supplement
classroom legal education, the Stu-
dent Bar Association has launched
a very successful speakers’ program
this year. ‘Ihe periodic talks are on
practical aspects of the law given
by men who are active in their
various fields.

Mr. Arnold W. Schlossberg, B.S.
29, LL.B. ’33; Honorable John G.
Fox, A.B. 748, LL.B. ’49; and Mr. R.
W. Jordan, A.B. ’26, LL.B. ’28, have
addressed the students. Mr. Schloss-
berg, a member of the Roanoke Bar
Association, spoke on labor law
from the point of view of a union
attorney. Mr. Fox, Attorney Gen-
eral of West Virginia, discussed
“Public Law.” The third speaker,
Mr. Jordan, Vice-President and
Counsel of Lawyers ‘Title Insur-

 

SCHLOSSBERG, ’29

A union attorney considered labor law

ance Corporation with home offices
in Richmond, Va., discussed the
methods employed to obtain evi-
dence of title and real estate prac-
tices in most of the states and the
part attorneys and title insurance
companies play in the picture. His
talk was co-sponsored by the Law-
yers ‘Title Insurance Corporation.

‘To open the program for the
second semester, on February 14 the
speaker will be Mr. Wiliam Zim-
mer, a visiting member of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School and
author, from Richmond. He will
speak on “Taxation and The Gen-
eral Practitioner.”’

On March 21, Mr. Collins Denny
Jr., of the firm of Denny, Valentine,
and Davenport of Richmond, will
discuss the lawyer’s place in col-
lective bargaining and labor law
from the point of view of manage-
ment.

As a final speaker for the regu-
larly scheduled program, Mr. Ed-
mund D. Campbell, A.B. 718, LL.B.
22, of Washington, D.C., will talk
on “Federal Court Practice.”

THE FIRST JURY MOCK TRIAL under
the auspices of the Student Bar
Association was held on November
14, 1955. Uhe trial was called Com-
monwealth v. Benign, and con-
cerned a Dr. Bertram Benign who
was accused of murder. He alleged-
ly attempted a mercy killing by
either administering poison or mak-
ing it easy for Mrs. Sam Gentry, a
cancer victim, to take her own life.
However, the nurse, Miss Catherine
Condole, drank the poisoned milk
and died, while Mrs. Gentry was
revived. Dr. Benign stood trial for
the murder of the nurse. ‘The prose-
cution and defense were under-
graduate law students. The trial
was conducted under Virginia law
procedure. Mr. Wilson Miller, Lex-
ington attorney, presided.

The moot courtroom in ‘Tucker
Hall was filled to overflowing, and,
after a long afternoon of listening
to testimony, the jury could not
agree on a verdict.

Dean Williams and the members

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

of the faculty were much pleased
with the experiment and expressed
the hope that the Mock ‘Trial will
become a fixture in the legal train-
ing of University Law students.

m THIS YEAR'S WASHINGTON and Lee
Moot Court team did not achieve
the victories of the 1954 team, but
did receive valuable experience by
participating in the Regional
Rounds held at Chapel Hill, N.C.,
on the 18th and 19th of November.

The 1955 National Moot Court
competition concerned a case in
which the Petitioner, Leopard Oil

Company, charged that Respon-
dent, the Superoil Corporation, had
violated section 7 of the Clayton
Anti-Trust Act, which prohibits a
corporation from acquiring stock
or assets of another corporation
which may substantially tend to les-
sen competition or tend to create a
monopoly in any line of commerce.

‘The team was composed of Doug-
las I. Buck, a senior law student
from Flint, Michigan, and C. J. Bal-
dree, an intermediate from Melber,
Kentucky, who argued the case.
Edward Ellis, a senior from Fort
Knox, Kentucky, was the third
member of the team who assisted in
the preparation of the brief.

Bev Stevenson and Bill Draper,
both senior law students, were the
co-chairmen of the Moot Court
Committee of the Student Bar.

m™ THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S
R.O.T.C. Unit for 1955-56 is com-
posed of sixteen Law students
among whom are seven Army Re-
serve Officers, two Naval Reserve
Officers, one Marine Corps Reserve
Officer, and six Army enlisted Re-
servists. A change in Army policy
hmits enrollment in this unit for
the future to commissioned person-
nel. ‘his change does not affect
the six presently enlisted members.
In November, 1955, the Unit was
officially inspected by representa-
tives of the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s School, U. S. Army, which
is responsible for the preparation
of the instructional material used
by the Unit.

JANUARY 1956

 

Fox, °48

The attorney general discussed public law

mg IN SPITE OF THE GREAT amount of
school work facing them, the fresh-
men law students had 100% at-
tendance at a luncheon given in
their honor by the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Student Bar Associa-
tion.

Dr. James G. Leyburn, retiring
Dean of the University, spoke on
the subject “Law in Primitive So-
clety.”” He was introduced by John
Stump, head of the social and speak-
ers’ committee of SBA.

The second annual Student Bar
Association Dinner Dance was held
in the Pine Room of the Mayflower
Hotel on Saturday evening, Novem-
ber 19. here were approximately
100 guests consisting of students,
their wives and dates, and members
of the Law faculty and their wives.

m INSPIRED BY ITS CHAMPIONSHIP
softball team of last spring, the Law
School has actively entered the cam-
pus intra-mural program for the
first time in recent years. To date
it has entered teams in each of the
three fall sports, tennis, golf, and
touch football. The tennis team
again won the championship trophy

IN 1955.

JOURNALISM
m THE LEE MEMORIAL JOURNALISM
Foundation’s director, Professor O.
W. Riegel, continued to bring ex-

perts in widely varying fields to
lecture in the Department of Jour-
nalism and Communications.
John C. Broger, president of the
Far East Broadcasting Company
(the Asian equivalent of Radio Free
Furope), told of anti-Communist
propaganda efforts in the Far East,
while Lt. Col. John Wilson, Jr.,
a staff officer in the office of the
Chief of Psychological Warfare
Department of Army, spoke on
planning for “psywar’’ operations.
Both addressed students in psycho-
logical warfare and propaganda.

John C. Coulburn, managing edi-
tor of the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch, talked to members of Sigma
Delta Chi, national journalism fra-
ternity, on the current status of
newspapers in the field of mass com-
munications. And R. Wallace Ebe,
Jv.. °42, production manager for
Ketchum, McLeod, and _ Grove,
Inc., of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
told advertising students of the day-
to-day workings of a large city ad-
vertising agency.

Wallace Werble, ’33, editor of
I'ood - Drug - Cosmetic Reports,
spoke on “Business Publications
and Other Special Fields,’ and
Cranston Williams, secretary-mana-
ger of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association, gave an up-
to-date account of ‘““The Govern-
ment Suit Against Advertising
Practices.”

Perhaps the most thought-pro-
voking speaker to talk to journalism
students was V. M. Newton, Jr.,
managing editor of the Tampa,
Florida, Morning Tribune and
chairman of the Freedom of Infor-
mation Committee of the Associated
Press Managing Editor’s Associa-
tion. His topic, “Freedom of Infor-
mation” dealt with restrictions on a
nation’s free press brought on by
what he called unwarranted classi-
fication and withholding of news
by government agencies.

OF THE Communica-
tions Laboratory, a_ fast-growing
component of the Department of
Journalism and Communications,

7

m@ STUDENTS

brought to Lexington and Rock-
bridge County radio listeners two
new series of Wednesday night half-
hour programs over Lexington’s
station WREL during the fall
semester.

One show, “Kaleidoscope,” was
written and produced by students
of the radio journalism course
taught by Assistant Professor Pax-
ton Davis. Beginning on October 19
and continuing every other week
throughout the semester, ‘‘Kaleido-
scope, presented a series of short-
story dramatizations, studies of
musical forms, word pictures of
various phases of American life, and
other programs of wide popular and
cultural appeal.

With Davis serving only in an
advisory capacity, each student in
the course was responsible for
conceiving, writing, producing, and
broadcasting a one half-hour pro-
gram. ‘Ihe shows were tape-re-
corded in advance and_ broadcast
over WREL from the remote facili-
ties located in the Journalism Li-
brary in Payne Hall.

Senior John Jennings, of Fayette-
ville, ‘Tennessee, acted as executive
producer for “Kaleidoscope” as well
as writer and producer for his own
show on “Tennessee Folk Music.”
One of the best received programs
dealt with “The Arizona Cowboy.”
It was produced by Jeb Rosebrook
of New York City, who tape re-
corded interviews with cowboys on
an Arizona ranch while he was
working there during the summer.

“Kaleidoscope” is the second pro-
duction of the Communications
Laboratory now being aired.
“Home Edition,” nightly 15-minute
newscast of predominantly local in-
terest, is in its seventh year.

The Communications Laboratory
and Washington and Lee Glee Club
inaugurated a new musical series
entitled, “The Glee Club Presents.”
Heard at the same hour as ‘‘Kaleido-
scope” on alternate Wednesdays, it
presented the best of campus music
and singing, both past and present.

The fifty-voice Glee Club, the
Southern Collegians, and a more re-

8

PRICE, °41
New duties as associate alumni secretary

cently organized singing group, the
Sazaracs, were among current stu-
dent organizations contributing to
the show, while other programs fea-
tured recordings of Brian Shanley’s
(55) famed Dixieland band, of Glee
Clubs of the past, and of choral
groups of neighboring girls’ schools.

Producer for this series was senior
William T. Grigg of Bethesda,
Maryland. He was assisted by Roy
Martin of Glasgow, Virginia, and
Duncan McCarthy of Orlando,
Florida. Professor Robert Stewart,
Glee Club director, acted as faculty
advisor. ‘The Glee Club series will
continue throughout the spring.

The acquisition of a sound input
radio console, a gift of R. J. Rock-
well, vice-president and director of
engineering for the Crosley Broad-
casting Corporation, provided the
impetus for both program series.
A Western Electric 23-C model, the
console permits the mixing of
sounds from various sources, in-
cluding recorders, playback ma-
chines, and up to four microphones.
It also allows simultaneous output
to broadcast facilities, recording
machines, and monitors.

“The new console fills a pressing
need and makes technically possible
the production of radio programs
of all types at a professional level,’
Mr. Riegel declared.

 

He added that the Communica-
tions Laboratory is interested in be-
coming a campus radio center pro-
viding technical and program assist-
ance to other University activities
which may wish to produce radio
shows.

ALUMNI

m THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE will have
a new editor next issue. He’ll be
James Hubert Price, Jr., a member
of the Class of 1941, who assumed
new duties as associate alumni sec-
retary with the advent of the New
Year. Editing the magazine will
be just a part of his job, for he
will take over a share of the work
involved in administering the
Alumni Fund and other duties
previously performed exclusively
by Alumni Secretary “Cy” Young.

Mr. Price comes to Washington
and Lee after 10 years with the
Hopper Paper Co. of Richmond,
Virginia, most recently as the sales
representative in the Baltimore,
Maryland, area.

After receiving his B.S. in Com-
merce he was commissioned an
ensign in the U.S. Navy and saw
long service in the South Pacific.
Upon his discharge he held the rank
of leutenant commander.

During undergraduate days, Mr.
Price was elected to membership in
Omicron Delta Kappa and was se-
lected for listing in “Who’s Who
Among Students in American Col-
leges and Universities.””’ He served
as Executive Committeeman for his
freshman class and later as senior
football manager. He was a presi-
dent of the Interfraternity Council
and a member of Phi Kappa Sigma
social fraternity.

Mr. Price is 35 years old. His wife
is the former Miss Harriette Vaden
of Richmond, Virginia.

BOOKS
m TWO MEN ASSOCIATED with Wash-
ington and Lee who served as com-
bat medics in widely separated
theatres of World War II have
written novels based upon their

wartime experiences.
The Trumpet Unblown (Double-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

day) by William Hoffman, ’53, who
is now an instructor in English at
Hampden-Sydney College, was re-
viewed widely when published in
December and is currently available
at bookstores. Two Soldiers (Simon
and Schuster) by Paxton Davis, as-
sistant professor of journalism, 1s
scheduled for publication in May.

The setting for Hoffman’s power-
ful story is in Europe in the bloody
days following D.Day. It is the story
of an idealistic young man whose
moral disintegration is effected. by
the brutalities of the war into which
he has been thrust. Dr. George Fos-
ter, associate professor of English
who taught Hoffman while the 30-
year-old author was studying ad-
vanced composition here, describes
the book as “strong medicine.”

Davis, also 30, drew upon his ex-
periences in the China-Burma-India
Theater during the war. His book is
actually two short novels, one en-
titled “One of Us’ and the other,
“Myitkyina.” The first deals with
rear area troops at Ledo, the famed
jungle supply depot, from which
the vital supply road stretched into
China. The second tale is a combat
story of the fighting that raged

around the Japanese citadel of My-
itkyina, deep in the Burmese jun-
gles. The connecting link between
the two stories is not only the locale
but also a common theme of dis-
covery of courage by two soldiers,
each in a different way and under
different circumstances.

“One of Us” is also due to appear
in Blue Book Magazine at approxi-
mately the same time the Simon and
Schuster edition is published.

Davis is a native of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, and a grad-
uuate of Johns Hopkins. Before
coming to Washington and Lee,
where he has been a member of the
faculty for three years, he was a re-
porter on the Winston-Salem Jour-
nal and the Twin-City Sentinel,
and the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

SPEAKERS

m WASHINGTON AND LEE’S ‘‘Semi-
nars in Literature” program opened
its fifth year last fall by bringing to
the campus two outstanding figures
in the world of letters.
Irish-English novelist, Elizabeth
Bowen, spoke on “The Critic and
the Author,’ and included com-

 

Athletic Committee.

 

Name Your Candidate

In comphance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the Nom-
inating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws any member of the Association may submit
the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board of
Trustees and for the alumni representatives on the University

There are two vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
Trustees, and two on the Athletic Committee at the June, 1955,
meeting of the Alumni Association. Members of the Association
are urged to submit names of their candidates for these offices.
The Nominating Committee will close its report on May 15.

The Committee is as follows: Sorsby Jemison, ’og, Chairman,
Young & Vann Supply Company, 1731 North ist Avenue, Birming-
ham, Alabama; Leonard T. Brown, ‘19, Lott-Merlin Incorporated,
500 Water Street, Bridgeport, Connecticut; John G. Fox, ’44, State
Capitol Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

 

 

JANUARY 1956

ments on her own work as well as
the writings of contemporaries. Her
best known works in America are
The Heat of Day, a Literary Guild
selection in 1949, and The Death of
the Heart.

Freshmen were offered an oppor-
tunity to meet the man who helped
edit their literature textbook when
Cleanth Brooks, Yale professor of
English, spoke at the year’s second
seminar. His Topic was ““T. S. Eliot:
His Attitude Toward His Audi-
ence’ and dealt with the religious
elements in Eliot’s poetry.

Mr. Brooks is a co-editor of Ap-
proach to Literature, a widely-used
freshman college textbook. His col-
leagues were John Purser and
Robert Penn Warren, current best-
selling novelists.

Miss Bowen and Mr. Brooks were
the 15th and 16th teachers, au-
thors, and critics to speak as a part
of the popular program.

A former “Seminars in Litera-
ture” speaker, Russell Kirk, passed
some complimentary remarks con-
cerning Washington and Lee in an
article published recently in Na-
tional Review. He said the Univer-
sity “has been one of the most vig-
orous Southern universities in re-
cent years, and one of the most en-
terprising centers for the revival
of truly liberal education.”

Another campus visitor last fall
was Dr. Erico Verissimo, one of
Latin America’s most successful
novelists, who spoke on ‘“Franken-
stein’s Workshop: How Novel Char-
acters Are Born.’ The Brazilian
author has been a long-time asso-
ciate of Dr. L. L. Barrett, professor
of Spanish at Washington and Lee,
who has translated four of Verissi-
mo’s works into English.

Dr. Verissimo’s appearance was
under the sponsorship of the De-
partment of Romance Languages.

STUDENTS

m IT'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION year
again, and at Washington and Lee
that means ‘Mock Convention.”

‘This year’s two-day extravaganza,
during which the student body will

9

seek to pre-guess the Democratic
party’s candidate months before the
summer national convention, 1s
scheduled for April 30 and May 1.
All plans are under the direction of
student chairman Carl D. Swanson,
23-year-old intermediate lawyer
from Kansas City, Missouri.

He has appointed a_ five-man
steering committee composed of
Wiley R. Wright, Jr., of Arlington,
Virginia (state delegations); David
G. Simpson of Harronds Creek,
Kentucky (publicity); ‘Theodore M.
Kerr of Midland, Texas (parade);
Charles J. Baldree of Melber, Ken-
tucky (convention secretary); and
Patrick D. Sullivan, Lorton, Vir-
ginia (reporter).

Two other students, David S.
Henderson of New Bern, North
Carolina, and John Hardin Marion,
III, of Bon Air, Virginia, were put
in charge of convention hall decora-
tions. All have reported steady
progress and Swanson is predicting
that the 1956 Mock Convention will
be one of the best ever held.

Most alumni will remember at
least one Mock Convention. It’s a
time of parades and oratory when
Doremus Gymnasium becomes be-
decked with flags and bunting, and
students become frenzied supporters
of favorite son candidates whose
convention delegates are swapped
and traded in much the same man-
ner as the maneuverings of the bona
fide convention.

In its nearly half-century long
history, the Mock Convention dele-
gates have correctly named the can-
didate for the party out of power
six out of ten times. In 1952, a last-
minute switch by the large and
powerful California delegation
from Earl Warren to Eisenhower
gave the nomination to the man
who went on to become President.

Because of the heated intra-party
campaigning shaping up among the
Democrats, this year’s convention
promises to be lively. With student
delegations keeping closely in touch
with party leaders in each of the
48 states, an attempt is made to
reflect as accurately as possible the

10

course these delegations will fol-
low at the national convention.

Recognizing the authenticity fol-
lowed by Mock Convention proce-
dure, the national press, radio, and
T.V. media have always provided
excellent coverage for the event. A
special pictorial brochure has been
prepared for pre-convention distri-
bution to newspapers, radio, and
TV. stations, hoping to interest
them in the convention and thus
provide even more excellent pub-
licity for the event and for Wash-
ington and Lee.

Helping out in convention plan-
ning is a senior law student who has
a first-hand appreciation of all the
problems which Chairman Swan-
son will encounter. He is ‘Townsend
Oast, 51, who headed the successful
1952 Mock Convention. Oast has no
official role this year, but is assist-

ing in an advisory capacity.

m NATIONWIDE RADIO publicity again
came to Washington and Lee last
Fall when the University’s “varsity
scholars” appeared on the National
Broadcasting Company’s “College
Quiz Bowl” for three successive
weeks. Just one week after classes
had begun, the Washington and Lee
panel helped “kick-off” the third
Quiz Bowl season by defeating last

year’s defending champions, Ford-
ham University, by a score of 180-
20. The next week Northwestern
University was beaten by a 145-55
score, but on the team’s third ap-
pearance on the Wednesday night
half-hour show, the combined forces
of Hobart and William Smith Col-
leges of Geneva, New York, pre-
vailed by a go-35 margin. .

‘This year’s team was composed of
seniors Ed Hood of Birmingham,
Alabama, and Clay Carr of Win-
chester, Virginia, and sophomores
Max Caskie, Jr., of Arlington, Vir-
ginia, and Jack Lackmann of Lex-
ington, Virginia. All of these stu-
dents were veterans of the panel
which lost in 1954-55 to the Univer-
sity of Minnesota, the Quiz Bowl’s
all-time record-holder with thirteen
straight victories.

By winning twice, Washington
and Lee received from Goodhouse-
keeping Magazine, sponsors of the
show, a total of $1,000 to be ad-
ministered by the University. “wo
years ago a Washington and Lee
panel of seniors composed of Fred
Lackmann (Jack’s brother) and
Robert Paxton of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, Harold Quinn of Shreveport,
Louisiana, and Henry ‘Turner of
Bethesda, Maryland, won $2,500 for
the University by recording five

 

“What’ll you have?” ask Deans LEYBURN and GILLIAM and University Treasurer MAT-
TINGLY. The mealtime services of this distinguished trio were donated to the ZBT’s as a
reward for their leading in contributions to the University’s Student Community Chest.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

straight victories over Smith Col-
lege, the University of Chicago,
Princeton, Barnard College, and
Pittsburgh, before being stopped by
Syracuse University. By vote of the
team, prize money went to establish
the John Higgins Williams Mem-
orial Scholarship.

In the audience at Washington
and Lee for the first program was
John Moses, producer of the show,
whose son Harry is a member of
the sophomore class.

Quiz Bowl questions concerned
just about every imaginable sub-
ject, including literature, mythol-
ogy, music, philosophy, science, his-
tory, geography, and current events.
Many letters were received from
Washington and Lee well-wishers
all over the United States suggest-
ing possible questions which might
turn up on the program. We do not
know whether the suggested ques-
tions were of help, but we do know
that the words of encouragement
were gratefully received.

= FOR THE FOURTH CONSECUTIVE
year, 17 Washington and Lee stu-
dents were selected for listing in
“Who’s Who Among Students in
American Colleges and Universi-
ties.” The 1955-56 edition of the
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, publication
carries the names of two senior law
students, two intermediate lawyers,
and 13 academic school seniors.

Included are Beverly G. Stephen-
son, Wakefield, Virginia, and
George S. Wilson, III, Owensboro,
Kentucky, senior law class; Robert
R. Huntley, Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, and John W. Stump,
Clarksburg, West Virginia, inter-
mediate law class; and Ellis B.
Drew, Anderson, South Carolina,
Clay B. Carr, Winchester, Virginia,
Dale G. Cornelius, Charlotte,
North Carolina, Charles M. Drum,
Richmond, Virginia, Michael R.
Dubin, Cedarhurst, New York,
Edgar G. Givhan, Montevallo, Ala-

bama, R. Gordon Gooch, Fort
Worth, ‘Texas, Victor Hanson,
Yorklyn, Delaware, William A.
Henley, Williamsburg, Virginia,

JANUARY 1956

 

Wrestling Coach Dick MILLER and_ 1737-
pounder JOHN ELLs (page 19) talk it over.

Sanford R. Maslansky, New Or-
leans, Louisiana, Samuel A. Syme,
Jr., Chevy Chase, Maryland, George
F. Milligan, Des Moines, Iowa, and
New Orleans,
Louisiana, academic senior class.

Henry Heymann,

Recommendations for selection
are made to the book’s editor by a
faculty - student committee which
considers “excellence and sincerity
in scholarship, leadership, partici-
pation in extracurricular and aca-
demic activities, citizenship and ser-
vice to the school, and promise of
usefulness to business and society.

ATHLETICS

IN basketball,
swimming,

gw DISAPPOINTMENT
surprising success in
and promise of better times in
wrestling—this is the Washington
and Lee winter sports picture at
the end of the first semester.

Some Washington and _ Lee
basketball followers are likening the
current sputtering campaign to that
of 1949-50, a season when great
things were expected of a promising
team but which, somehow, just
didn’t turn out that way.

Hopes were high at the season’s
beginning, and justly so, for the
‘“5-Star Generals,’ who had finished
so brilliantly in a late-season surge
last year, were back intact and the

bench was strong and deep. On
hand was one of the most potent
one-two scoring punches the Blue
and White had ever boasted. And
having ranked 15th in the nation
in scoring last year, the Generals
seemed ready to reassume the old
title of “Blue Comets,” so proudly
worn by the teams of the middle
and late 1930's. But that was at
the season’s outset, and there’s lit-
tle joy in Mudville now.

‘The Generals got off to a running
start, beating Bridgewater with ease
and edging the defending Big Six
champs, Richmond, in a home court
thriller, 78-76. Sophomore guard
Dom Flora and junior center Lee
Marshall were living up to their
reputations as prolific point-pro-
ducers, and Coach Billy McCann
was getting tremendous support
from his veterans reserves. In the
first half of the Richmond contest,
Marshall suffered a severe ankle
sprain, and while he finished that
game, he was out entirely for the
next two and severely handicapped
for another pair of games.

Few people recognized it at the
time, but that was the beginning of
a long, long chain of misfortune
for Washington and Lee’s basket-
ball aspirations. Other players be-
gan nursing injuries, but of far
ereater consequence was the fact
that some boys just weren’t display-
ing the kind of ball that had charac-
terized their play as sophomores and
freshmen. ‘The Generals found
themselves “blowing” big leads in
the late stages of games, or falling
far behind at the start and seeing
the game go hopelessly out of reach
before beginning to click as a team.

‘They carried a 2-4 record into the
Christmas holiday run of games
meeting Dayton University, the na-
tion’s No. 2 team, in a contest where
the towering Flyers were hard-
pressed for a half before pulling
away from the out-classed Generals.
In the All-American City Tourna-
ment at Owensboro, Kentucky, the
team’s stock took a temporary surge
upward. College of the Pacific was

(Conintued on page 18)

11

LL the objectives of higher education ultimately depend
upon the quality of teaching. In the opinion of the Foun-
dation’s Irustees, private and corporate philanthropy can make
no better investment of its resources than in helping to strengthen
American education at its base—the quality of its teaching....

Nowhere are the needs of the private college more apparent
than in the matter of faculty salaries. Merely to restore professors’
salaries to their 1939 purchasing power would require an aver-
age increase of at least g0 per cent. Even this would not bring
teachers in our private colleges to their economic position be-

The Gitt
of the

Ford Foundation

12

[PXHE BOARD OF TRUSTEES of the

Ford Foundation on December
12, 1955, announced an appropria-
tion of $210,000,000 to help raise
the level of faculty salaries in Amer-
ica’s 615 regionally accredited, pri-
vately supported colleges and uni-
versities. This is in addition to the
appropriation of $50,000,000 an-
nounced by the Foundation last
March.

Washington and Lee has been
named to receive a portion of both
grants. Its gift will total approxi-
mately $516,000.

Under the Ford Foundation pro-
gram, each of the 615 colleges will
receive a portion of the $210,000,000
grant approximating itS 1954-55
payroll for full-time teachers in the
arts and sciences. When invested
this gift, called an Endowment
Grant, will produce income sufh-
client in most cases to raise faculty
salaries by an average of approxi-
mately four per cent.

About one-fifth of these colleges—
126 in number—have been desig-
nated to receive an additional
amount from the original $50,000,-
ooo grant. These are called Accom-
plshment Grants. Income from
their investment would raise facul-
ty salaries in these 126 institutions
by an additional average of approx-
imately two per cent if devoted to
this purpose. |

The colleges and universities
offered a portion of the original
$50,000,000 grant are those which

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

fore World War II in relation to that of other professions and
occupations. ‘hey have not begun to share the benefits of the
expanded productive power of this nation, and the whole edu-
cational system suffers from this fact.

Industry, commerce, government, the arts, the sciences and the
professions—indeed our whole way of life depend heavily upon
the quality of our education. Recognizing this fact, the Trustees
of ‘The Ford Foundation want to do everything they can to em-
phasize the cardinal importance of the college teacher to our

society.

appear, among the institutions of
similar type in their regions, to
have made _ outstanding — effort
throughout the period since World
War II to raise the economic level
of their teachers, and to have rec-
ognized in other ways the central
importance of the faculty in the
educational process.

In recommending a plan for al-
locating the $260,000,000 _ total
among the 615 eligible colleges and
universities, the Foundation’s Col-
lege Grants Advisory Committee
said:

‘The Committee unreservedly en-
dorses the Foundation’s objective
of making grants to private colleges
and universities that will improve
faculty salaries and emphasize fur-
ther improvement. . . . There are
certainly other needs, but we re-
gard the improvement of the eco-
nomic position of college teachers
as vital.

[The Committee] did not at-
tempt to compare the caliber of
these different colleges, the general
excellence of reputation. Indeed,
our study confirms the belief so
widely held that variety of excel-
lence is a healthy aspect of our en-
tire system of higher education,
whether publicly or privately sup-
ported. ‘This variety cannot be
readily reduced to mathematical
comparison or scores.

“Naturally we have been mind-
ful of the effect of granting such a

JANUARY 1956

Henry Forp, II, Chairman.

large sum. Therefore, we propose
a simple, practical plan which we
know will aid in raising faculty
salaries and which cannot help but
attract attention to their central
importance, but will not distort any
of the carefully evolved patterns of
our system of higher education.
Above all, the distribution of this
money ... should not reduce in any
way the desirable diversity of char-
acter among these institutions.”

IN ITS ORIGINAL PLAN for the Col-
lege Grants Program the Founda-
tion contemplated grants totaling
$50,000,000 to about a hundred col-
leges. Continued study, however,
contributed to a developing sense
of the vastness and importance of
the problem and brought the real-
ization that a much larger invest-
ment not only was merited but ac-
tually was essential.

From the beginning the emphasis
of the College Grants Program has
been on the liberal arts and sciences.
Colleges participating in the Ac-
complshment Grants Program were
selected entirely from those in
which the liberal arts and sciences
predominate. All private, regionally
accredited, four-year colleges will
participate in the
Grants Program.

Endowment

The Endowment Grant is to be
held as income-producing endow-
ment, the income being used to im-
prove faculty salaries, for a mini-

mum of ten years, after which either
capital or income may be used for
any academic needs. Each such
grant under the Endowment Grants
Program 1s approximately the figure
reported by the college as the total
of basic contract salaries in 1954-55
for full-time teachers of candidates
for bachelors’ degrees in the arts
and sciences.

Each college selected to partici-
pate in the Accomplishment Grants
Program has been offered another
grant equal to approximately half a
year’s payroll.

This grant, either the principal
or income, may be used for faculty
increases, or it may be devoted to
other pressing academic needs.

Apportionment of salary in-
creases among different teachers and
different ranks of teachers within
the arts and sciences, both graduate
and undergraduate, and in other
undergraduate curricula, is left en-
tirely to the discretion of the insti-
tution.

It is the expectation of the Foun-
dation that colleges receiving the
Accomplishment Grant will make
every possible effort, during the
next few years, to obtain at least
equal financial support from other
sources further to increase salaries.
Therefore no formal matching re-
quirement has been made.

Grants are to be paid in two
equal installments, one before
July 1, 1956, and the other before

July 1, 1957.
13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

Parenti

Nearly goo persons sat down to lunch in Doremus
Gymnasium on Saturday, November 19, on the oc-
casion of Washington and Lee’s first annual Parents’
Day. Of these, 409 were parents; 6g were other out-of-
town guests; the rest were students and members of
the faculty and administration. Visiting parents repre-
sented 238 of the University’s 1,050 students and came
from 24 states, the District of Columbia and Canada.

During the course of the day the visitors registered
their attendance, toured the campus, viewed a “Humor
in Painting” exhibit, visited classes with their sons,
and kept pre-arranged appointments with members

Front cover: A football game followed lunch. (1) 478 visitors reg-
istered. (2) Guided tours included the Lee Chapel. (3) At noon
all paths led to Doremus Gymnasium and (4) through the serv-
ing lines. (5) Christian C. Luhnow, co-chairman of the Parents’
Advisory Council, Mrs. Luhnow, and Dr. Marion Junkin (right)

’ Day, 1955

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
     

of the faculty. They gathered in Lee Chapel to hear
from President Gaines, other University officials, and
officers of the Parents’ Advisory Council, braved the
none too cooperative elements to watch Washington
and Lee’s efforts on the gridiron, and for the day's
finale listened to a thoroughly enjoyable concert by
the band and glee club.

Reports of Parents’ Day have been almost unani-
mously favorable, so much so, in fact, that University
and Parents’ Advisory Council officials already tenta-
tively have scheduled the second annual Parents’ Day
for November 3, 1956.

were instrumental in arranging the “Humor in Painting” ex-
hibit. (6) Parents gathered in the Lee Chapel to hear President
Gaines (insert) and others. (7) The luncheon menu included
vocalizing by the Sazaracs. (8) Professor Robert Stewart led
the University Band and Glee Club at their evening concert.

 

Dr. HOWE

The satisfaction which comes when well rendered service meets with full appreciation

With the deaths of Dr. Howe and Dr. Hancock

Washington and Lee lost

‘Two Devoted

‘Teachers

R. JAMES LEwis Howe died on
December 20, 1955, at the age

of ninty-six. Countless alumni will
receive this news with deep regret—
and perhaps many will share the
feeling of one who wrote, “I should

16

not have been surprised. Actually
I was, for I had come to feel that
we would always have him with us.”

Born at Newburyport, Massachu-
setts, August 4, 1859, young Howe
was graduated from Amherst in

1880 and continued his education in
chemistry at the University of Gott-
ingen, where he received the Ph.D.
degree in 1882. He began his career
as a teacher at Central University,
Richmond, Kentucky, in 1883 and
continued later at its afhliated Hos-
pital College of Medicine, which
he also served as dean, and the
Louisville College of Dentistry.
During this period he was likewise
lecturer and scientist for the Poly-
technic Society of Kentucky, and re-
ceived the honorary degree of M.D.
from the Hospital College.

Appointed professor of chemistry
at Washington and Lee, Dr. Howe
and his family moved to Lexington
in 1894 and into the house on the
campus which he occupied continu-
ously for sixty-one years. Having
served as Dean of the School of Ap-
plied Science from 1921 to 1932
and as head of the chemistry de-
partment, he was retired in 1938 as
professor emeritus and University
historian. In 1946, the University
conferred upon him the honorary
degree of Doctor of Science.

At a time when the entire chem-
istry laboratory was the room now
used as the print shop—then over
the noise, dirt, and vibrations of
the power plant—with his _ office
and a balance room partitioned off
at one end and one small research
laboratory at the other, Dr. Howe
managed to accomplish extensive
research in his special field, the
chemistry of ruthenium. The Jour-
nal of the American Chemical Sc-
ciety carries the results of this work
and also many “Reviews of the
Progress of Inorganic Chemistry”’
which he prepared. Probably, how-
ever, his most important contribu-
tion to science is his “Bibliography
of the Metals of the Platinum
group,” covering the subject from
1748 (the first mention of platinum
in the literature) to 1950. With the
1940-50 volume still in printer’s
proof, Dr. Howe was active as re-
cently as last summer in carding

current literature for 1950-1960! His

acknowledged mastery of this field
led to his selection in 1917 by the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Research Council for important
public service in connection with
the war-time shortage of platinum.
The Bibliography was cited also as
the major basis on which he was
awarded the Herty Medal for the
advancement of science in_ the
Southern States (1937).

Other — scientific
cluded membership in many learn-
ed socities. He was at one time
general secretary of the American
Association for the Advancement of
Science aud was an organizer and an
early president of the Virginia
Academy of Science. Among other
public duties he served three times
by presidential appointment on
commissions for assaying the coin-
age at the United States mint.

activities in-

Dr. Howe was notable for his
widespread interests and activities
outside as well as within the field
of science. Presbyterian elder, bank
president, finance chairman of town
council, a charter member of the
Fortnightly Club and of the Lex-
ington Kiwanis Club, a Knight
‘Templar, and member of the
Shrine, he still found time to take
an active part in the Phi Beta Kap-
pa and Omicron Delta Kappa, to
play the piano, to accumulate an
impressive stamp collection, to help
revise the Presbyterian hymnal, and
to participate in such national
movements as the United Society
of Christian Endeavor (of which he
was a life trustee), the Students’
World Missionary Movement, and
the campaign for simplified spell-
ing.

Above all else, James Lewis Howe
was a great teacher. Alumni over a
period of forty years will recall
having used his “Inorganic Chemis-
try’ as a freshman text, and—how-
ever much they may have forgotten
what was in the book—they will
never forget the man who wrote and
taught it. Their thoughts of him
cannot be summarized better than
was done thirty years ago by S. C.
Lind, ’99, when he wrote: “His uni-
versal interest 1n science, in church,
in humanity; his absolute lack of
any petty qualities; his unfailing

JANUARY 1956

optimism and unflagging energy;
his ability to awaken enthusiasm
in all of his hearers, linked him
indissolubly to students and _ col-
leagues alike. With him the spirit of
service has always been foremost.
This has given the South for a third
of a century one of its most brilliant
teachers of chemistry and_ has
brought to Howe that satisfaction
which comes when well rendered
service meets its full share of ap-
preciation.”

OCTOBER 27, 1955, MARKED the
close of the distinguished and pur-
poseful career of Dr. Glover Dunn
Hancock, emeritus professor of
economics. Washington and Lee be-
came his school by adoption: he
loved it profoundly and gave to it
devoted service for a period of forty-
two years. ‘Testimonial to the worth
of his hfe and his work was the re-
spect accorded him by the many
college generations who knew him
as their teacher or who knew him
in his capacity as dean of the School
of Commerce and Administration.
‘This same respect was accorded him
by his colleagues as well, who have
paid unanimous tribute to the apt-
ness of his administration, the con-
scientiousness of his teaching, the
unselfishness of his friendship, and
to his high academic standards and

 

Dr. HANCOCK

The respect accorded by many generations

his keen interest in the individual
welfare of his students.

Dr. Hancock was born in Los
Angeles on January 10, 1878. He
received the degree of Bachelor of
Arts at William Jewell College,
Liberty, Missouri, in 1898, and the
Master of Arts degree one year later.
He was awarded the Ph.D. degree at
the University of Wisconsin in 1908.

He was a member of the Amerli-
can Economics Association, the
American Political Science Associa-
tion, and the American Academy
of Political and Social Science. He
belonged also to Phi Beta Kappa
and Sigma Nu fraternities, and he
was an active member of the Fort-
nightly Club of Lexington.

After serving as assistant pro-
fessor of economics at Amherst Col-
lege from 1908 to 1910, Dr. Hancock
came to Washington and Lee as
professor of economics and com-
merce and director of the School of
Commerce, which had been found-
ed in 1906. In 1919, he assumed the
newly established office of Dean of
the School of Commerce and Ad-
munistration, and he served in this
capacity until 1949. He continued
part-time teaching from 1949 to
1952. Under his direction, the
School advanced to a place of out-
standing rank.

Among his outside activities were
a period of service as a special agent
of the Wisconsin State ‘Tax Com-
mission, membership on the Vir-
ginia State Commission on Person-
nel Administration, the State Com-
mission on Workmen’s Compensa-
tion Insurance, and the role as
special lecturer at Johns Hopkins
University and at the University of
Virginia.

The funeral service was held at
the Robert E. Lee Memorial Epis-
copal Church, which Dean Han-
cock had served as a senior warden
for twenty years. Dr. ‘Thomas V.
Barrett was assisted by Dr. Church-
ill Gibson, known to many alumni
as the former rector of the church
and long-time friend of Dr. and
Mrs. Hancock.

17

 

 

UNIVERSITY NEWS

(Continued from page 11)

edged out, 65-64, in a tremendous
comeback victory, and in the semi-
finals the Blue played its best game
of the year in handing Kentucky
Wesleyan College its first defeat of
the year, 88-78. It looked like the
Generals were beginning to roll.
Even the defeat in the tourney finals
wasn’t discouraging, because, after
all, the team had played four nights
in a row and was weary.

But then came successive losses
to West Virginia, and William and
Mary, the latter contest well within
the Generals’ grasp with a 68-68
tie with a minute to play. Roanoke
College was victimized, but the bit-
ter pills began coming thick and
fast.

Davidson, a team defeated easily
twice last year, Overcame a seven-
point Washington and Lee lead in
the final minutes to win easily. Vir-
ginia nudged the Generals by a two-
point margin, Virginia ‘Tech came
from behind to triumph by 11
points in the closing seconds, and
Villanova proved the superior team
from the very start to win 82-66,
despite an evenly-distributed second
half. The exam break mercifully
halted the string of defeats for the
time being.

Coach Billy McCann is at a loss to
explain what brought about such
a sharp reversal of form from that
of last season when the Generals
won 11 of their last 14 contests.
Flora and Marshall, while sporting
good averages, haven’t been able to
combine their abilities in the same
game except on rare occasions. ‘The
team’s passing, rebounding, and de-
fensive play have been sub-par, but
the greatest single factor has been
an inability to hit the basket.

Last year the team hit 42 per cent
of its field goal attempts. ‘he rate
this year is around 33 per cent,
although players are shooting more

Marshall scores against Richmond as Cap-
tain SroricK (9) and Hoss (19) look on. The
Generals won the game by a 78-76 margin.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

on the average than last season.

Coach McCann hopes the exam
break may work the same kind of
wonders as last year. ‘The Generals
came back from their lay-off then
to work a 5-10 record into a win-
ning 16-13 final standing. Gone
are hopes this year of a better show-
ing than last, and foremost at the
moment is the problem of finishing
better than eighth in the Southern
Conference race.

In other winter sports, the pic-
ture is much brighter. The swim-
ming team of Coach Cy ‘Twombly
has been nothing short of magnifi-
cent. Undefeated after four meets,
the General mermen have coasted to
easy victories over Catholic Uni-
versity and Lynchburg College and
pulled off upset wins over Virginia
and Davidson, with both of these
meets being decided in the final 400-
yard freestyle relay.

While every boy on the squad
gets Coach ‘IT'wombly’s praise, the
work of two youngsters deserve
special mention. Lou Allioti, a
pint-sized swimmer from Izmir,
Turkey, has been taking part in
three and four events at each meet
and ‘Twombly says it’s Allioti’s
drive and enthusiasm that have
proved contagious to the team.

‘The other boy is Jay Fox, of
Bluefield, West Virginia, current
Southern Conference breast stroke
champion, who has twice set new
pool records in his speciality this
year. Against Catholic he went the
goo-yard distance in 2:34.5, and
against Davidson he lowered the
mark still farther by turning in a
time of 2:30.0. In his 30 years of
coaching General swimming teams,
‘Twombly says Fox is his first breast
stroke champion. Men in all other
events had previously won Southern
Conference titles for ‘Twombly.

On the wrestling mats, things
are looking up. ‘The General grap-
plers dropped their first two
matches to Virginia Tech, defend-
ing conference champion, and per-
ennial power Franklin and Mashall
by substantial margins, and were
edged out in the next by Duke, 16-

JANUARY 1956

13. But Coach Dick Miller’s boys
have bounced back to beat North
Carolina, 26-10, and tie West Vir-
ginia, 14-14.

Co-Captain and conference 167-
pound champ Gibby McSpadden,
who hasn’t lost a match since his
freshman year when he dropped a

lone decision in the conference

finals, is still terrorizing his weight
class. ‘Two of his victories this year
have been pins, while the three de-
cisions have never been close.

John Ellis continues to stand
strong at 137 pounds, while some
freshmen talent in Dennis Patton
and Butch House promises well for
the future.

Chapter News

APPALACHIAN

The annual meeting of the Appa-
lachian chapter was held in Ab-
ingdon, Virginia, at the Martha
Washington Inn on Decemter 3,
with 50 alumni and guests present.
A social hour preceded the dinner.

A. G. Lively, ’12, president of
the chapter, presided. Dr. Charles
W. Turner, of the history depart-
ment, and Dr. A. Ross Borden Jr.,
of the English department, repre-
sented the University. Following
the talks a short business meeting
was held and the following officers
were elected to serve for the coming
year: Albert Peery, ’32, Tazewell,
Virginia, President; Allen W oftord,
32, Johnson City, ‘Tennessee, H. L.
Crowgey, ’12, Emory, Virginia, Clif-
ford Smith, ’24, Big Stone Gap,
Virginia, Dick Rouse, ’30, Bristol,
Virginia, Vice Presidents; and
James N. Harmon, Jr., "44, Laze-
well, Virginia, Secretary- Treasurer.

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM

The chapter met at the Belle-
Mead restaurant, Harrisonburg, on
December 2, for a delightful social
hour and dinner. ‘There were 75
alumni and guests present. Bill
Chipley, football coach, spoke to
the group on the present athletic
policy of the University. Edward C.

Atwood, of the Commerce School,
spoke on University affairs. Col.
Paul J. B. Murphy, ‘14, president
of the chapter, presided.

The following officers were elect-
ed for the coming year: President,
Fred O. Funkhouser, °34;  Vice-
Presidents, Richard W. Smith, °41,
J. B. (Gus) Stombock, °41; ‘Treas-
urer, Richard T. Sloan, ’42; Secre-
tary, William B. Gunn, ‘42.

BALTIMORE

The Fall meeting of the Balti-
more chapter was held at the EIk
Ridge Country Club on December
3, with 60 alumni and guests pres-
ent.

Bill Pacy, ’51, president of the
chapter presided. Dr. Marvin Perry,
of the English department, spoke
to the group on “The Impressions
of a New-comer to the Campus,”
and Dr. William M. Hinton, of the
Education and Psychology depart-
ment, and chairman of the Un1-
versity Athletic Committee, on
the “University’s Present Athletic
Policy.”

Officers elected to serve for the
coming year were: Dave Ryer, ‘51,
President; Talcott Bond, ’51, Vice-
President; Gideon Stief, Jr., ‘52,
‘Treasurer; and Sam Williams, °44,
Secretary.

19

 

BIRMINGHAM

Coaches Bill Chipley and Charlie
Harrington spoke to some 40 alum-
ni in Birmingham on November 29
at the fall meeting of the local chap-
ter. The dinner meeting, preceded
by a social hour, was held at the
Mountain Brook Club. Bester
Brown, chapter president, presided.

Dean Gilliam, while visiting high
and preparatory schools in the
South, was in Birmingham on De-
cember 6. Local alumni arranged
an informal coffee party for him at
at the ‘Tutwiler Hotel where he
talked with prospective students
and members of their families. ‘The
Birmingham alumni have been re-
sponsible for sending many excel-
lent boys to the Universitv.

CHARLESTON

Forty alumni and their wives met
for dinner at the Daniel Boone
Hotel in Charleston on Friday eve-
ning, October 14, with Ruge De-
Van, Jr., 34 presiding. Dr. Gaines,
guest speaker of the evening, went
down the alphabet during his talk,
starting with “Admissions” and end-
ing with “University Scholarships,”

 

The Mid-South meeting in Memphis featured President Gaines (right) and the newly
elected chapter officers ED Marks, °37, SAM HOLLIs, ’51, and HARRY WELLFORD, °46.

20

covering for those present up-to-
date campus information. A direct
outcome of Dr. Gaines’ talk was the
plan for the formation of alumni
committees to visit various local
high schools and to present to
graduates information about Wash-
ington and Lee which may lead to
their becoming students here. Dr.
Gaines had spoken in the afternoon
at the weekly luncheon meeting of
the Charleston Rotary Club.

MID-SOUTH

The Mid-South Alumni Associa-
tion held a dinner meeting at the
University Club in Memphis on
November 8, with more than 150
alumni, their wives, parents of pres-
ent students of the University, and
friends in attendance. S. L. Kopald,
'43, presided and introduced Presi-
dent Gaines, the principal speaker
of the occasion. In a short business
meeting Harry Wellford, ’46, was
elected President of the alumni
group, succeeding S. L. Kapold, ’43.
Ed Marks, °37, was named Vice-
President, and Sam Hollis, ’51,
Secretary- Treasurer. Dr. Gaines had
a busy day in the city, appearing

before the student body of South-
western University at 10:00 a.m. as a
speaker in the series of talks there
on “Free World Issues.’ He also
spoke at the noon meeting of the
Memphis Rotary Club at the Pea-
body.

ROANOKE

Seventy-five Roanoke, Virginia,
alumni met for their annual dinner
at the Shenandoah Club-= on
Wednesday, November 16, with
Beverly T. Fitzpatrick, President
of the chapter presiding.

Officers elected to serve for the
coming year were William B. Hop-
kins, ’42, President, succeeding Mr.
Fitzpatrick; Richard ‘IT. Edwards,
93, Vice-President; and Robert S.
Goldsmith, ’53, re-elected Secretary-
‘Treasurer. Student leaders who
spoke on student activities were
Ellis Drew of Anderson, South Car-
olina, student body president; Bill
Williams of Roanoke, editor of The
Ring-tum Phi; Sam Syme of Chevy
Chase, Maryland, President of
O.D.K.; and Milton Herndon of
Oak Hill, West Virginia, President
of the Student Bar Association. H.
K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Secretary,
and Martin P. Burks, III, a mem-
ber of the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees, spoke briefly to the group.

SOUTHWEST ‘TEXAS

Seventy alumni and friends of
Washington and Lee held a most
successful fellowship hour and din-
ner meeting on November 14, at the
Houston Club in Houston, Texas,
with chapter president Milton Mor-
rison, ’38, presiding. Ben Ditto, ‘48,
introduced the guests and friends.
President Gaines, the principal
speaker of the occasion, was pre-
sented with some field binoculars to
be placed in the Lee Museum, by
Mr. Harry M. Jay, Memphis, ‘len-
nessee, in memory of his wife, Laura
Jay. The glasses case bears the in-
scription “From G. W. C. Lee to
Katherine Stuart.’’ Dr. Gaines gave
a delightful and most enlightening
description of the present state of
affairs at the University.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

06 H. L. HANpD.uEy retired from the

Bureau of Public Roads. Kansas City,
Missouri, in August, 1955. He now lives at
308 Montclair, N.E., Albuquerque, New
Mexico.

/ 4 J. GoopLogr JACKsON, president of
Upper Potomac Alumni Chapter, who 1S
a loyal Democrat, was appointed by Gov-
ernor McKeldin to the Alleghany County
Board of Education for a term of 5 years.
Address: 610 Shivers Avenue, Cumberland,
Maryland. Incidentally Governor McKel-
din, who has a freshman son at Wash-
ington and Lee, was a guest of the Uni-
versity on Parents’ Day. During his stay
he spoke to one of the local honorary
fraternities.

/ 6 Jose CAMINERO, formerly of the
Diaro de la Marina, Havana, and now
Cuban Ambassador in Nicaragua, reports
that it takes a long time for news of the
University to reach him (by slow boat) in
Managua. He reports that another alum-
nus, HENRY MAHLON WEIS, 28, lives in
Managua, Apardo 466.

17 PAuL D. PICKENs has been appoint-
ed a member cf the Housing Authority
of the City of Cumberland, Maryland, for
a five year term.

22 Dr. Harry Lyons was recently

elected president of the American Dental
Association at its meeting in San Fran-
cisco, California. Dr. Lyons, dean of the
Dental School of the Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, was also
honored recently in Richmond when the
faculty of the dental school presented his
portrait to the college.

2 4 CHARLES A. COHEN has moved his

law offices to 267 Fifth Avenue, New York
16, New York, as of November 1, 1955.

JANUARY 1956

25 Correction. ‘Through the misplac-

ing of two semicolons in the 1955 Alumni
Fund Report under the Academic Class
of 1925, two Alumni Fund contributions
indicated that Philip F. Howerton and
Charles S. Heilig were deceased. We are
happy to make this correction as both
of them are very much alive. The asterisks
indicating “In Memoriam” listed _ be-
fore their names were intended for their
clasmates Archie (Red) Hawkins and
John Hocker.

EDWARD Matz, Sr., has just returned from
a three months trip abroad where he
visited several countries looking over in-
dustrial plants. He is still president of
Kurly Kate Corporation. Address: 2215
S. Michigan Avenue, Chicago 16, Illinois.

2 6 Eart A. CapMus has been appoint-
ed Associate Trial Justice and Substitute
Juvenile Judge of Norfolk County, and
has a new address at Colony Road, Ports-
mouth, Virginia.

Caru B. Knicut, publisher of the Big Stone
Gap Post, vacationed in Puerto Rico in
May. In June he served a 15-day tour of
duty at Air University, Maxwell Air Force
Base, Montgomery, Alabama. He holds a
commission as Lt. Colonel in the Air Force
Reserves.

M. Lu GOopMAN is practicing as a certi-
fied public accountant under the firm
name of M. Lu Goodman & Company, of-
fices in Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia. He reports an unusually heavy
tax season in spite of the filing date hav-
ing been moved up to April 15.

EDWARD FELSENTHAL is still with New

England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 1618

@60060600600060800000000060080
Class of 1906
50-Year Reunion and
Convocation
May 11 and 12, 1956

 

Sterick Building, Memphis, ‘Tennessee. He
is happily married and has a son, age 13,
who hopes to attend Washington and Lee,
and a daughter, age 15, who hopes to at-
tend dances here before said son enters.

GeorcE L. HILL is a manager of a Bank
of America branch which open in its new
building in Singapore, Malaya, October 1.
This is Mr. Hill’s second sojourn in the
Southeast Asia metropolis. He was an
overseas Officer for another U. S. bank for
14 years before World War II and spent
part of that time in Singapore. He served
during those years at London, England;
Batavia, Java; Hong Kong;  Peiking,
China; and Manila. A native of Roanoke,
Virginia, he graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1926, and later did postgradu-
ate work at New York University. His
office is at 31 Raffles Place in the heart of
the city, and supplements a network of
Far Eastern branches of the bank.

DANIEL S. MAcCoORKLE has owned and
operated his own business under the
name of D. S. MacCorkle, Inc., Hoboken,
New Jersey, since 1944. He is married
and has two daughters, one entering
Northwestern University School of Jour-
nalism this fall, and the other in Mill-
burn High School. Residence: 19 Gap
View Road, Short Hills, New Jersey.

2/ Eppy GILMoreE, of the AP London

Bureau, covered the “‘summit”’ conference
in Geneva in July.

LE Dr. G. WALDO DUNNINGTON, profes-

sor of German and English at Northwest-
ern State College, Natchitoches, Louisiana,
is the author of a study of the life and
work of Carl Frederick Gauss, one of the
three greatest mathematical geniuses of all
time, recently published by Exposition
Press, Inc., 386 Fourth Avenue., New York
16, New York. Dr. Dunningham has made
a life study of Gauss, and in February 1955,
visited Brunswick, Germany, and the Uni-
versity of Gottengen, Germany, for the
centennial of the death Carl Frederick
Gauss. Not only is the biography based on
rare material, but extensive appendixes
preserve much of the private data that
heretofore has not been available outside
the family archives in Germany.

29 RICHARD POWELL CARTER is the

author of “Fire Under the Skin,” an ar-
ticle on shingles that appeared in a
recent issue of the Saturday Evening Post.
RICHARD POWELL CARTER, JR., is a freshman
at Washington and Lee.

Puitie R. BrEcKER, formerly of Coolidge,
Becker, Wall & Wood, has become a
partner in the law firm under the name
of Cowden, Pfarrer, Crew & Becker, with
offices at 712 Winters Bank Building,
Dayton 2, Ohio.

Joun JAY Puitiips has spent most of his
life since graduation in the insurance
business, resigning a few years ago as
General Agent of the Mutual Benefit Life
Ins. Co., for the State of Oregon. Since

21

 

that time he has been a rancher in Ven-

tura County, California, raising lemons,
oranges, avacados—‘‘and three children.”
Address: Rt. 1, Box 330 Moorpark, Cali-
fornia.

J. M. SHACKELFORD is still an Accountant
with Johns Manville Co., his main out-
side activity in the past year being as na-
tional secretary of the National Society for
Business Budgeting. He continues to de-
vote considerable time to church affairs
as Finance Chairman of the Board of
Trustees, First Presbyterian Church, Me-
tuchen, New Jersey. Address: 25 Clinton
Place, Metuchen, New Jersey.

3 / ‘TALcoTr C. LANCASTER is still with
Electro Metallurgical Co. as chief chemist.
Address: 102 Hillcrest Drive, Marietta,
Ohio.

33 Dr. W. Topp DEVAN, retired as

Lt. Col. Medical Department U. S. Army,
is now practicing his profession in sur-
gery in Hanover, Pennsylvania. He is
married and has three sons, ages 7, 6, and
2 years old. He lives at 213 Eichelberger
Street, Hanover, Pennsylvania.

34 E. N. S. Grrarp is Director of Pub-

lic Information in Europe and Africa
for the American Red Cross with head-
quarters in Stuttgart, Germany. His son,
E. S. N. Grrarp, II, is a freshman at Wash-
ington and Lee.

3 5 Don R. WALLIS is now in the news-

paper business with the Madison Courier,
Madison, Indiana. He was launching his
new 40-foot steel and aluminum house
boat on the Ohio the first of June, and
hopes all good Washington and Lee men
will drop by for a cruise when in the
vicinity.

PEYTON D. WINFREE, JR., executive editor
of the Lynchburg News and Daily Ad-
vance, has been named chairman of the
Freedom of Information Committee of
the Associated Press Managing Editors
Association. His son, PEYTON B. WINFREE
III, is a freshman here this year.

3 6 Ben A. THIRKIELD, USIA Informa-
tion Officer at Helsinki, Finland, reports
that the Thirkield family is flourishing,
the Finnish summer this year was wonder-
fully warm and sunny, and that he is

22

looking forward to home leave in the fall
of 1956. He was formerly stationed in
South Africa.

3/ ANDREW H. BAUER is President of

the recently formed corporation, Indus-
trial Properties, Inc., 34 North Boulevard,
St. Louis, Missouri. This organization has
acquired a site of 4714 acres which, when
fully developed, will be the largest indus-
trial subdivision in the St. Louis area.
After Mr. Bauer’s service in the Army he
organized and operated Ladue Supply,
Inc., flour mills which he sold this past
summer. The Bauers, who live at 50
Picardy Lane, Clayton 24, Missouri, have
four children. He writes that between
home and business he is kept about as
busy as he was in “making the grade” at
Washington and Lee.

HARLEY E. CLuxton, Jr., M.D., Director of
the Clinics at Northwestern University
Medical School, was elected to Who’s Who
in America in December, 1953, and _ is
therefore listed in the 1954-55 edition.
Address: 700 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.

‘THOMAS BEEBE RIpy is now in the truck-
ing business as part owner and manager
of Lawrenceburg Transfer Co. He is past-
president of Lawrenceburg Rotary Club;
present Mayor of Lawrenceburg; and ac-
tive in many social clubs, Chamber of
Commerce, church, etc. Mr. and Mrs. Ripy
have five children, two boys and three
girls, ages from three to 16, with the
oldest boy entering college in 1956. He pre-
fers Washington and Lee.

Lous P. CASHMAN, JR., business manager
of the Vicksburg, Mississippi Post and
Herald, has been appointed director of
the Southern Newspaper Publishers Asso-
Ciation.

PARKE Rousk, JR., is the author of a pam-
phlet on printing in Colonial Williams-
burg, published this year but written be-
fore he was granted a leave of absence
by Colonial Williamsburg to become di-
rector of the 1957 Jamestown Celebra-
tion.

3 & COMMANDER WILLIAM B. Bacsy, on

the staff of Commander Operational De-
velopment Force, has a new address as of
October, 1955; U. S. Naval Advance Base,
Navy No. 913, c/o F. P. O., New York, New
York. His wife and their three sons,
Francis Cocke, William Boyle, Jr., and
Robert Daniel, are now with him.

Class of 1931

25-Year Reunion and
Convocation
May 11 and 12, 1956

©800020006090000600009809668609

Joun E. NEILL is Associate Manager of
the College Department of Henry Holt
and Company, publishers, New York City,
and lives in Eastchester.

WILLIAM M. Hupcins, who served four
years as Admiral Carney’s aide in Eu-
rope, writes that he has “returned to the
plow a la Quintus Cincinnatus” and has
been looking after the home place at
Chase City, Virginia, with side trips to
the Caribbean, pending his next assign-
ment.

3 9 CAHRLES G. GILMORE on October 1,

1955, Was promoted to Assistant Vice-
President of Marsh and McLennan, Inc.,
insurance brokers, and also named As-
sistant Manager of the Insurance Bureau
of the United States Steel Corporation.
Marsh and McLennan has been the in-
surance department of U. S. Steel since
Steel was formed in 1901. Mr. and Mrs.
Gilmore are the parents of a_ second
daughter born December 16, 1954.

H. L. HANDLEY, JR., was promoted from
Branch Claims Manager in Kansas City
of Farmers Insurance Group to Assistant
Superintendent of Claims in the Home
Office last March. Address 9713 Emperor
Avenue, Arcadia, Florida.

Joun F. Ganonc has opened his office
for the general practice of law at 1533
Main Street, Walnut Creek, California.

Ross P. SCHLABACH has resigned as pro-
fessor and dean of the school of journal-
ism at the University of South Carolina
effective at the end of the present semester.

BARRET HIERs, JR., is working for the Ti-
tanum Pigment Corporation. He visits the
eastern part of Virginia and is very hope-
ful that he and his wife with their two
sons, Rhet and Craig, can return for a
visit to Washington and Lee for a day or
two before long. Address: 48 Meadow
Lane, Levittown, Pennsylvania.

WarREN H. Epwarbs is still practicing law
as a member of the firm of Pleus, Ed-
wards and Rush, Box 3146, Orlando,
Florida. He is now President of the Orange
County Bar Association. He is active in
U. S. Marine Corps Reserve and is a Lt.
Colonel and commanding officer of the
Organized Reserve Unit in Orlando.

40 MATTHEWS A. GRIFFIN has been ap-
pointed executive director of the Wood-
row Wilson Centennial Commission of
Virginia, which is planning a Centennial
observance in 1956 of the birth of Wilson
in Staunton, Virginia. He is in charge of
the Centennial office in Staunton.

Louis F. (Lov) PLUMMER and his family
were visitors at his mother’s home, Elm-
croft, here in Lexington, Virginia during
the past summer. Address: 156 Angela
Avenue, Walnut Creek, California.

C. O. (RED) Turner, Turner’s Drug Store,
Lexington, Virginia, is also Manager of
the V. M. I. Post Exchange. He has re-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cently been promoted to Major in the
Air Force Reserve Program. Commissioned
a second lieutenant in 1942, he served
overseas for 18 months with the 12th Air
Force in Italy and France. He has a total
of twelve years of military service in the
Regular Air Force and Reserve.

E. S. Rosy, Jr., has retired after three
terms as Mayor of Kenbridge, Virginia.
He is now farming and in the mercantile
business in Kenbridge.

4] HucuH G. ASHCRAFT has been elect-
ed Vice-President of R. S. Dickson &
Co., investment banking firm of Charlotte,
North Carolina. Address: 783 Sedgefield
Court, Charlotte, North Carolina.

James A. RUSSELL, JR., is NOW major in
the U. S. A. F. R. and farming in Jones-
town, Mississippi. He and his wife, the
formrer Mary Nan Monaghan, have a
daughter 7 years old and a son 1 year
old.

d 2 RoBERT F. CAMPBELL, JR., formerly

city editor of the Asheville, North Caro-
lina, Citizen, joined the staff of the Wins-
ton-Salem, North Carolina, Journal and
Sentinel this year as an editorial writer.
Dr. MicHaEL W. Lau has opened offices
for the practice of medicine at 9730 Wil-
shire Boulevard, Beverly Hills, California,
with practice limited to Urology.

ROBERT G. BAKER lives at 19686 Westover
Avenue, Rocky River, Ohio. He is travel-
ing for the B. F. Goodrich Chemical
Company throughout Ohio and Western
Pennsylvania and would be glad to know
of any of his classmates living in that
area. He is married and has a daughter
4 years old.

EpwaArD M. Korry, formerly UP Bureau
Chief in Paris, is chief of the European
headquarters of Look Magazine with of-

fices at 231 Rue St. Honore, Paris.

ROBERT G. WALKER, formerly cashier of the
First National Bank, Lexington, Virginia,
is now Executive Vice-President of Pen-
insula Bank & Trust Co., Williamsburg,
Virginia.

GEORGE A. WOLFENDEN is supervisor of the
Dealer Advertising Department, The Bur-
roughs Corporation, Detriot, Michigan.

43 MAJOR JOHNSON C. YouNG recently
was graduated from the associate of-
ficer advanced course at The Infantry
Center, Fort Benning, Georgia. His home
is in Morehead, Kentucky.

JoserH F. Eis, Jr., of the Clarksdale, Mis-
sissippi. Press Register, is Vice-Chairman
of the School of Journalism Committee of
the Southern Newspaper Publishers Asso-
ciation.

LAWRENCE W. GALLOWAY with the Coca-
Cola Bottling Co. has been transferred to

JANUARY 1956

 

Legion Commander WAGNER

When conventioning American
Legionnaires elected J. Addington
Wagner as their new national com-
mander at Miami last October, it
marked the second time that an
alumnus of Washington and Lee
University had been named to this
high position. Like his Legion-
naire predecessor, Stephen F. Chad-
wick, 14, “Add’’ Wagner is an at-
torney, a member of his family’s
law firm in Battle Creek, Mich.,
where he lives with his wife and
12-year-old son.

As a Purple Heart Navy veteran,
he had devoted much time and ef-
fort to the affairs of the Legion’s
General George A. Custer Post 54.
His work won for him the support
of his fellow Michigan Legionnaires
and ultimately those of the nation.
When the 41-year-old former col-
lege swimming star took over the

Legion leadership, he inherited a
position mandated to support pro-
grams in the fields of agriculture,
foreign relations, military prepared-
ness, underprivileged children, jun-
ior baseball, service, anti-
communism, civil defense—to name
but a few. It’s a good bet he’ll do
a fine job, his Legion friends say.

civil

He is best remembered at Wash-
ington and Lee as co-captain of the
swimming team which stroked its
way to the Southern Conference
championship in 1936 and 1937.
His swimming prowess was as na-
tural as his leadership abilities, for
he had captained his Battle Creek
High School team to the Michigan
State title in 1932.

Following his graduation from
Law School in 1937, he joined his
father and sister in practicing law,
but when the war came he was
commissioned an ensign in April,
1942. In the meantime, he had be-
come the husband of Virginia Dare
Beagle, his school-girl sweetheart.
In 1946, Wagner returned from the
war, a lieutenant commander, and
bearing scars of wounds suffered
during a Japanese Kamikaze attack
off Okinawa in the waning days of
the Pacific war.

His subsequent activities with
the Battle Creek Legion post
helped make it the largest in
Michigan. His youthful enthusiasm
and determination were rewarded
last fall when delegates of three
million war veterans elected him
as their national commander for

1955-56.

SSHSHSSOHOHSHSSSHSHOGOHOSOHSSOSHSSHSSSSSHOHSAGSHHOSHOCHOSCHOCHOSCCELEEEOEEES

New Bern, North Carolina. Address: Box
134 Bridgeton, North Carolina. His home
is on Route 17 and he hopes to see some
W. and L. people passing through.

44 WALLACE E. CLAYTON has been

transferred to the J. Walter Thompson
Detroit office to head the Public Rela-
tions office there. Address: J. Walter
‘Thompson Company, 535 Griswold Street,
Detroit 26, Michigan.

WILLIAM READ MILLER as of January 1,
1956, became a partner of the law firm
under the name of Duval, Duval and Mil-
ler, Richmond, Virginia.

45 Davin LLoyp JONEs has joined Mc-

Kinsey & Company, management consult-
ants, as a consultant in their New York
office, 60 East 42 Street, New York 17, New
York. He came to the company from Pa-
cific Mills Division of Burlington Mills.

23

 

 

46 FREDERICK C. SAGE has been Admin-
istrator of the Jackson County Public
Hospital, Maquoketa, Iowa, since April,
1953. The Sages have two boys, 3 years
old and 5 months old.

4/ ROPER SHAMHART graduated from
Union Theological Seminary in June, 1950,
with the B.D. degree and later in 1951
was ordained Deacon and Priest of the
Episcopal Church. He served as Rector
of the Episcopal Church in Christians-
burg, and in Wytheville, Virginia. He is
now in New York working on a Master’s
degree in Church History, and is tempor-
arily located at 175 Ninth Avenue, New
York 11, New York.

q & CAPTAIN JAMES M. WATSON was re-

lief pilot of one of the B-47 aircraft crews
that won the Mackey Trophy for 1954 for
the Strategic Air Command’s 308th Bom-
bardment Wing, Hunter Air Force Base,
Savannah, Georgia.

General Nathan F. Twining, Air Force
Chief of Staff, recently presented the
trophy in his Pentagon office.

The award was made in recognition
of a 10,000 mile non-stop flight made by
two B-47 bembers from Hunter to Europe
and back last year. The Stratojets were
refueled four times in flight, twice in
complete darkness. One crew completed
the flight in 24 hours and four minutes
and the other in 25 hours and 23 minutes.

The trophy has been awarded annually
since 1912. It was donated by the late
Clarence H. Mackey as an annual military
aviation award. The trophy has _ been
awarded in past years for speed, altitude,
endurance, and distance flights.

Captain Watson’s wife is the former
Vivian Buchanan of 11 Houston Street,
Lexington, Virginia.

FREDERICK J. (JACK) AHERN, Financial and
Economic Analyst with United Corpora-
tion, 6 Leffingwell Place, New Rochelle,
New York, was recently elected Assistant
Secretary of the organization.

Jack L. GrossMAN and Frederica Judith
Kolker were married on Marsh 12, 1955,
at Pikesville, Maryland. They are at home
in Baltimore, where Jack has engaged in
the general practice of law since he passed
the bar in 1949. He was associated with
a firm until January, 1954, when he
opened his own office.

RosperT G. PATTERSON, the new Assistant
Professor of Bible, Southwestern Univer-

24

sity, Memphis, ‘Tennessee, after receiving
his A.B. degree at Washington anu Lee,
was awarded his B.D., at Union Theolog-
ical Seminary, and is now a candidate
for his Ph. D. at Yale. His teaching career
has carried him to McCallie School in
Chattanooga, Collegiate School in Rich-
mond, and Yale Divinity School, New
Haven, Connecticut. He also has held
pastorates in Virginia, North Carolina,
and West Virginia. Address: Southwest-
ern University, Memphis, Tennessee.

H. Maurice MITCHELL is a partner in the
firm of Lasley, Spitzberg, Mitchell & Hays
in Little Rock, Arkansas. Maurice was
with the U. S. Treasury Department, and
then served as Assistant Attorney, Ar-
kansas State Revenue Department, for two
years. He practiced alone until January,
1954, when the present partnership was
formed. Maurice has served as Secretary-
Treasurer of the Arkansas Bar Association
since 1951, and as an instructor at Ar-
kansas Law School since 1951. The Mitch-
ells have three children.

JOHN M. STEvens has been with Kentland
Coal and Coke Co., Pikeville, Kentucky,
since April, 1951, and is now Superinten-
dent with local supervision of 90,000 acres.
He practiced law in West Virginia for
three years and was admitted on motion
to the Kentucky Bar. John is a member
of Pikeville Planning Commission, Ken-
tucky Forest Industries Committee, and
is President of Pikeville Rotary Club.

WILLIAM HARRELSON is a partner in the
law firm of Fraust & Harrelson and has en-
gaged in general practice since finish-
ing school. He has served as City Attor-
ney for ‘Troy, Ohio, since October, 1948.
Address: 10614 W. Main Street, Troy,
Ohio.

James R. Lyte has formed a partnership
with T. R. Bandy, Jr., for the general
practice of law under the name of Bandy
& Lyle, Kingsport, Tennessee. Jim was
with Kingsport Times-News for a year
and had practiced alone since 1950. His
son, James R. Lyle, Jr. (Robin), was born
in September, 1954.

WILLIAM LAWRENCE GARVIN is attending
M. I. ‘T. to work on his master’s degree
in Architecture. His address is now Apart-
ment 4, 262 Harvard Street, Cambridge
39, Massachusetts.

RUTLEDGE H. DEASE, JR., was married to
Virginia Slaughter in 1951. They have
two children, Katheryn Louise, age 214
and John Edward, age 3 months. Rut has
been with the Carter Oil Co., for the
last 4 years till May 1, 1955. He now has
his own oil and gas lease business
in Louisiana, Arkansas and Texas. Ad-
dress: 110 Bruce Street, Shreveport, Louis-
iana.

49 REID R. AGNoR, JR., is secretary of

the W. L. Foltz Insurance Co., and presi-
dent of the Lexington-Buena Vista Asso-
ciation of Insurance Agents. He has re-
cently been promoted from first lieuten-
ant to captain in the Air Force Reserve
Program. During World War II he served

43 months and was stationed overseas in
the European theatre for 23 months with
the 344th medium bomber group as a
flight officer. Address: P. O. Box 530, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

ALAN W. SPEARMAN, JR., is now State sales
representative for Jenkins Lumber and
Manufacturing Co. of Birmingham, AI-
abama. The company is owned and op-
erated by RALEIGH JENKINS, JR., ’24, 2832
Niazuma Avenue, Birmingham, Alabama.
Address: 2813 11th Avenue S., Apartment
B, Birmingham, Alabama.

EVERETT L. TaAytor, Jr., M.D., interned
until December, 1955, at Greenville Gen-
eral Hospital. He and Mrs. Taylor have
a son 4 years old. Address: g-A Perry
Court Apartments, Greenville, South Car-
olina.

EVERETT C. EASTER, JR., is in the advertis-
ing department, Tampa Electric Co., Tam-
pa, Florida. Address: 70 Davis Boulevard,
Apartment 3, ‘Tampa, Florida.

PETER D. DEBOER is Cost Accountant at
E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Waynes-
boro, Virginia. He is married and has a
son two years old. He is a member and
Secretary of Waynesboro Kiwanis Club;
on the board of Waynesboro Community
Concert Association; member, Waynesboro
Musicians Group; and was appointed,
June 1, 1955, to Board of Trustees of
Waynesboro Community Hospital, Inc.,
and appointed its ‘Treasurer. Address:
628 Pine Avenue, Waynesboro, Virginia.

50 WILLIAM R. LINTON sang several

roles in the Atlanta Opera-Arts Associa-
tion’s production of Tales of Hoffman,
November 11, at the Atlanta Woman’s
Club Auditorium. He also appears in
Opera-Arts productions of La Traviata and
Il Trovatore and is tenor soloist at Col-
lege Park Methodist Church, Atlanta.
After two years at Washington and Lee,
he received his A. B. degree from the
University of Florida.

Jim CARRINGTON (HOOFNAGLE) served two
years in the army following graduation
with a stint in Yokohama. After attend-
ing radio school in New York, he worked
first as sports director for Phil Hirsch
(formerly of WREL, Lexington) at WLEU,
Erie, Pennsylvania, and then for station
WNXT, Portsmouth, Ohio. He is now
sports director for Station KBUN, Bemidji,
Minnesota.

Gus A. FRITCHIE, JR., is now in the service
as a Lieutenant (j.g.) and took part in
the Tachen evacuation. Gus received his
Law degree from Tulane Law School in
1953 and was married on November 20 of
that year. He expects to practice law with
his father, Gus A., Sr., ’19, when his ser-
vice is completed. Address: 309 Cleveland
Avenue, Slidell, Louisiana.

Houston H. Harte took the 13-week
NAEA advertising sales training course
at the Des Moines (Iowa) Register and
Tribune last spring. He praises the course
highly and recommends that it be offered
at Washington and Lee. A third child, a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

girl, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Harte in
Des Moines last December.

CHARLES H. ROBERTSON has been working
for Pet Milk Co., Abington, Virginia,
since June, 1951. Address: 123 Fraser
Lane, Staunton, Virginia.

51 Jor C. Sconce, after graduation in

1951, was drafted into the army and sent
to Officer Candidate School. In 1952-54 he
served as Public Relation Officer, Informa-
tion and Education Officer, and Assistant
S-3 in the Army. In 1954-55 he attended
the School of advanced International Stu-
dies of Johns Hopkins University for one
year working on his Masters degree. He is
now studying on an Italian Goverment
Fellowship at the University of Bologna,
Italy. Address: Collegio Irnerio, Piazza v.
Puntoni 2, Bologna, Italia.

HENRY BRECKINRIDGE VANCE, now with the
Corporation Council cf the District of
Columbia, Washington, D.C., has been ap-
pointed city attorney of Buena Vista, Vir-
ginia, to succeed Henry J. FORESMAN,
LL.B. 48, whose resignation became ef-
fective September 1. Mr. Vance will assume
office February 1, when he moves to Buena
Vista with his family. In the interim Judge
William S. Moffett, Jr., of the Buena
Vista Circuit Court, has appointed
CHARLES H. Davipson, Jr., LL.B. °35, of
Lexington, to serve as Commonwealth’s
attorney for Buena Vista from November
1-December 31 to relieve Mr. Foresman
who has been granted a two-month leave
of absence because of ill health.

Guy Bowers HAMMOND has recently grad-
uated from Yale Divinity School with
the B.D. degree. This fall he will go to
Vanderbilt University to study for his
Ph.D., and then will devote his time to
teaching religious education. Address:
3912-11th Avenue, S., Birmingham, Ala-
bama.

J. K. BoarpMAN, Jr., has recently been
transferred to Norfolk, Virginia, as man-
ager of the record office, C. & P. Tele-
phone Company of Virginia, 423 Boush
Street, Norfolk, Virginia.

R. E. WuirTson, JRr., is now back in Vir-
ginia with the Riverton Lime and Stone
Co., Dominion Minerals Division, with
headquarters at Piney River, Virginia. He
and his wife are frequent visitors to
Lexington.

5. 2 WALTER GARRETT RIDDICK has been
appointed assistant United States attorney
for the Eastern District of Arkansas, the
appointment effective immediately. A
native of Little Rock, Mr. Riddick has
been in practice with the firm of Rose,
Meek, House, Barron and Nash. He is an
A.B. graduate of ‘49 and LL.B. ’52, and
a son of the late JupcE WALTER G. RIppICK
of the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals, class of 1905.

THOMAS D. GARDNER was finally transfer-
red from his old carrier, the U.S.S. Kear-

JANUARY 1956

sarge, and is now enjoying a stretch of
shore duty near home. Address: Photo
Laboratory, Halligan Hall, U. S. Naval
Academy, Annapolis, Maryland.

EMMETT E. ‘TUCKER is a member of the
recently formed partnership for the gen-
eral practice of law under the name of
Elisha Hanson with offices at 729 Fit-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 5, D.C.

PauL D. WEILL recently returned from
Korea after serving there as a_ First
Lieutenant with the Marines. He was re-
leased from active duty and is living at
190 Evans Avenue, Freeport, New York.

SAMUEL E. E. CONKLIN finished a_ six
months’ training program at the home
office of the Maryland Casualty Co., and
was transferred to the Richmond, Virginia,
office in March. Address: 14 Oak Lane,
Richmond 14, Virginia.

53 LAWRENCE S. WHITTEN, JR., has just

completed a course at the Naval School
of Justice at Newport, Rhode _ Island,
standing second in a class of 140 men. He
will return to his ship, the U.S.S. Kermit
Roosevelt, in California. He was married to
Jeannie McCarty and has a son, Michael
Lawrence, born May 18, 1955.

CHARLES PRATT RATHER, Jk., is now in the
air force stationed in Germany. He is
taking University of Maryland extension
courses and will return to Auburn to get
his degree when he gets out of the serv-
ice. Home address: 3820 Forest Glen,
Birmingham 9, Alabama.

C. CRAIG FRITSCHE, after graduating from
the Officer’s ‘Training School at the New-
port, Rhode Island, Naval Base, as an en-
sign, subsequently completed training
as a deep-sea diver at Indianhead, Mary-
land, and is now assigned to the U.S5S.
Pinnacle (minesweeper) and based at the
Charleston, South Carolina, Naval Base.
Address: U.S.S. Pinnacle, (MSO-462), FPO,
New York, New York.

ALAN WEBER was married to Mary Angela
Russell of Ashland, Ohio, October 23,
1954. Their son, Alan Russell Weber, was
born October 4, 1955. Alan, Sr., is now a
law student at the University of Michi-
gan. He completed two years active duty
with the Navy as a commisisoned officer
in August, 1955. Address: 1106 Norman
Place, Apartment 4, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Joun I. BowMAN, Jr., has completed his
first year at the Dental School, Medical
College of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia.
Home address: 3009 Hemlock Road, Roa-
noke, Virginia.

5 4 Lr. WILLIAM HILit, who has been

with the Transportation Corps at Fort
Story, Virginia, was assigned to a summer
tour at Frobisher Bay, Canada, where
the Barc’s are bringing in supplies for
the DEW line. Bill wrote in August: “So
far the weather has been much like early
spring or late fall there. We are living in
tents that have floors and walls about

four feet up the sides. Running water is
right across what we jokingly call the
‘street’.”” Bill wrote earlier from Fort
Story that he was putting his journalistic
training to good use and had also given
his company two courses in psychological
warfare.

ARTHUR DEAN Guy is in the service and
is stationed at Fort Amador, Canal Zone.
His home is at 253 Ward Parkway, Kansas
City 12, Missouri.

JERRY C. Murpnuy recently completed the
officer’s basic course at the Anti-Aircraft
Artillery and Guided Missile School, Fort
Bliss, ‘Texas. His home address is: c/o
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Murphy, 1025 Spring
Street, Mocksville, North Carolina.

GLENN Scott, author of A Sound of Voices
Dying, put in a stint at Fort Jackson,
South Carolina, after induction, and was
then transferred to the Adjutant General
School at Fort Benjamin Harrison, In-
diana. He reported seeing Bos Cross, ’54,
from time to time at Fort Jackson. Glenn
is making notes for the next book, and was
observed in Richmond in October.

55 SECOND LIEUTENANT WALK CLARIDGE

Jones, III, recently was graduated from
the Army’s Transportation School at Fort
Eustice, Virginia. Lieutenant Jones com-
pleted the school’s transportation officer
basic course for officers who recently re-
ceived their commissions. After graduation
from Washington and Lee he entered the
Army last August. Home address: 727
South Perkins Road, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

DAVE CLINGER has returned from Europe
with an excellent color motion picture
film taken on a three months’ tour on a
motor scooter. He reports that in Rome
he was given a warm reception by Ep
(Scoop) JACKSON, °45, UP Bureau Chief.
Dave is working for the Fredericksburg,
Virginia, Free Lance-Star until army in-
duction.

Lew CopE is stationed at Fort Eustis, Vir-
ginia, and editing the unit newspaper.
Editorial duties bring him to Richmond
once a week. Dave Clinger’s movies had
a markedly soothing effect upon Lew when
Lew and Dave visited Lexington for
Homecoming week-end.

SECOND LIEUTENANT WILLIAM E. Moore,
JR., recently was gradauted from the
Army’s Transportation School at Fort
Eustis, Virginia. Lieutenant Moore com-
pleted the school’s transportation basic
course for officers who recently received
their commissions. Home address: 645
Cherry Avenue, Waynesboro, Virginia.

5 6 PRIVATE JAMES H. Pruitt is playing
football in Germany with the g2nd In-
fantry Regiment team. Private Pruitt
entered the Army in January, 1955, and
completed basic training at Fort Ord,
California. He arrived in Europe in July.
Home Address: 117 Rivercrest Drive, Ft.
Worth, Texas.

25

 

 

1891

Rev. CARLYLE R. WOMELDORF, gi, retired
Presbyterian missionary to Brazil, died at
his home at East Lexington, Virginia,
December 6, 1955. He had been in de-
clining health for some years. After at-
tending Washington and Lee, he was
graduated from Union Theological Sem-
inary. He spent nine years in the mission
field in Brazil for the Presbyterian Church
and twenty years in El Paso, and Houston,
‘Texas, working among the Mexicans.

1895

Dr. ByRAN JARRED Cook died October 11,
1955, at the home of his daughter in
Whitmore Lake, Michigan. He had moved
to Michigan several years ago. Interment
was in Bovina, Mississippi, his former
home.

1897

THOMAS HENRY Wess died at a hospital
in Austin, Texas, on October 24, 1955,
following a long illness. He was 80 years of
age. Mr. Webb was an engineer with the
Texas State Highway Department for 33
years and later an assistant engineer un-
til his retirement in 1951. His home was
at 1400 Ethridge Avenue, Austin, ‘Texas.

1902

SAMUEL MADISON DuNLAP, 78, president
of Myers Hardware Company, Lexington,
Virginia, died October 31, 1955, following
a long illness. Mr. Dunlap had been a
leader in community affairs in Lexington
until ill health curtailed his activities
several years ago.

1906

KELLY WALKER TRIMBLE died September
6, 1955. His home was Staunton, Virginia.

1907

VirciL S. BEATTY, 72, died on September
27, 1955, at his home in Beattyville, Ken-
tucky, following a heart attack. He is sur-
vived by a brother, JupGE Emit B. BEatty,
of the Law Class of 1920.

1908

PERRY W. ‘TuRNER died October 28, 1955,
at his home in Birmingham, Alabama.

26

IRVIN AsHzR Downey died September 6,
1954. His home was in Princton, West
Virginia.

1911

Jos RANDOLPH SAUNDERS died May 81,
1955. His home was in Suffolk, Virginia.

1912

ROLAND ACREE WaApbpILL died October 18,
1655. His home was in Washington, Mary-
land.

1913

CARTER GLAss, JR., 62, co-publisher and
general manager of the Lynchburg News
and Daily Advance, died following a
cerebral hemorrhage, December 1, 1955.
Son of the late United States Senator
Carter Glass and Mrs. Glass, he had been
associated with the Lynchburg papers
since 1913. He was a former member
cof the Senate of Virginia and a former
president of the American Philatelic
Society. Graduating from Washington and
Lee University in 1913, his newspaper
career was interrupted when the Virginia
National Guard was ordered out for ser-
vice on the Mexican border and he was
stationed with Old Dominion troops at
Brownsville, ‘Texas, from July, 1916, to
January, 1917. Shortly after the declaration
of war with Germany, he was ordered to
the first officer’s training camp at Ft.
Myer. He saw service in the Meuse-Ar-
gonne drive in France.

Mr. Glass is survived by his wife, the
former Ria Binford ‘Thomas and. three

children, Carter Gtiass, IIT, 42, THOMAS

REAKIRT GLass, ’49, and Mrs. Nyal Lee
Cline.

Dr. HERMAN PORTER DAvipson died Octo-
ber 8, 1955, following a heart attack. After
graduation here he completed his medi-
cal course at Johns Hopkins University
in 1917. After serving as a first heutenant
in the Medical Corps during World War
I, he spent a year at the Massachusetts
Charitable Eye and Ear Infirmary in
Boston and soon thereafter went to Chi-
cago where he began a successful practice
as an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist.
He was eye surgeon for the Pullman Car
Company and was on the faculty of the
University of Chirago as a clinical associ-
ate in opthalmology in Rush Medical Col-
lege. Dr. Davidson was also on the staff of
Presbyterian Hospital and maintained
offices in the Loop and the Beverley Hills
suburb. He was a member of the Ameri-
can Medical Association.

1914

‘THE HONORABLE WILLIAM H. SMATHERS
died September 24, 1955. Mr. Smathers
served as United States Senator from New
Jersey from 1936 to 1942.

1915

MALVERN SPENCER BARROW, 63, died De-
cember 11, 1955, following a heart attack.
Mr. Barrow’s home was in Alberta, Vir-

 

ginia, and he had been president of the
Bank of Alberta since 1917.

1925

JOHN SENTMAN STRAHORN, JR., died Novem-
ber 13, 1955. At the time of his death he
was professor of Law at the University of
Maryland.

1926

SAMUEL JAMES ‘THOMPSON, former Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for Campbell Coun-
ty, Virginia, died December 10, 1955. Mr.
‘Thompson had been most active in alumni
work, having served as agent for the Law
Class of 1929 for a number of years. His
son, S. J. (THOMPSON, JR., is in the junior
class at Washington and Lee.

1930

Ropert WiLLiAM Mostry died September
15, 1955. His home was in Conway, Ar-
kansas.

1931

Parry McCiurer Sruarr died November
10, 1955. His home was in Covington, Vir-
ginia.

GEORGE Morcan Lupron, president of
Lynchburg Coca-Cola Bottling Works, died
October 3, 1955.

HORTON WASHBURN Masry died April 28,
1955. His home was in Daytona Beach,
Florida.

1933

JAMES INGRAM GILLEspreE died November
9, 1955. A lifelong resident of Birming-
ham, Alabama, his home was at 1830-12th
Avenue S., Birmingham, Alabama.

1953

Eric CORBELL GAMBRELL, JR., died De-
cember 11, 1955, following a long illness.
His home was at 4621 Edmondson Avenue,
Dallas, Texas.

1955

‘TOMMY KiNG Lovinc died December 6,
1955, in the University of Virginia Hos-
pital after a long illness.

 

1949

GRANVILLE S. R. BOULDIN was married to

Martha Elizabeth McCullough on Septem-

ber 16, 1955, in Murfreesboro, ‘Tennessee.
1950

WILLIAM HALE BARRETT was married to

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lelia Banks DuPre on November 12, 1955,
in Rome, Georgia.

WILLIAM S. CALE was married October
5, 1955, to Lois Johanson of Leeds, Ala-
bama. ‘They were married in the Manse
of the Leeds Presbyterian Church of
which Mrs. Cale’s father is pastor. Mrs.
Cale was born in Africa, where her par-
ents were missionaries, and has been
living in this country since 1942. They
are making their home in the Manse of
the Oakdale Presbyterian Church, Clover,
South Carolina, of which Mr. Cale is
pastor.

1951

RoBERT LEE HOpkKINs, JR., was married to
Louise Augusta Gilliam, daughter of
Dean and Mrs. Frank J. Gilliam, on
Saturday, November 26, 1955, in the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Church, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Serving as ushers were
FONTAINE GILLIAM, °51, brother of the
bride, WILLIAM HAGAN, °51, and DADE
FOOTE, ‘59.

L. PRESTON COLLINS, III, was married to
Mary Marshall Steck of Winchester, Vir-
ginia, on November 26, 1955. Son of
Mrs. Collins of Marion, Virginia, and the
late L. Preston Co..ins, II, ’20, Lieuten-
ant-Governor of Virginia. The groom, A.B.
‘51, 18 now a student in the Law School
here. ‘They will make their home in Lex-
ington. Washington and Lee attendants in
the wedding party were JACK ORSBORNE,
JR., 53; BILL Pacy, ’50; JACK WALKER, 755;
Ep MOYLer, JR., 51; JACK Kay, ’51; and
Ep ‘THOMAS, ’50.

DonaLp W. MASON was married to Dorothy
Ebert on September 17, 1955, both of
Cumberland, Maryland.

1952

RUSSELL KENNEDY ADAMS was married to
Margaret Lynn Farley on November 26
in Charleston, West Virginia.

JAMES HuGH Gorpbon, JR., was married
to Katherine Moulthrop on August 25,

1955-

Epwarpd Davis Matz, JR., was married. to
Jan Keefer of Peoria, Illinois, on Septem-
ber 24, 1955. Ed was graduated in June
from Northwestern University Law School
and over the summer passed both the
Washington, D.C., and Illinois bar ex-
aminations. Address: Park Dearborn
Hotel, 1260 North Dearborn, Chicago, IIli-
nois.

1953

ALDEN MCLELLAN PrrarD was married to
Barbara Anne Hendrick on October 22,
1955, In San Diego, California.

FreD Epsey CarTER was married to Shirley
Celeste Rasberry on October 1, 1955, in
El Paso, ‘Texas.

Joun PAuL RYAN was married to Dorothy
Sue Looney on October 19, 1955, in Fort
Worth, Texas.

HuGH SELWYN GLICKSTEIN was married to

JANUARY 1956

Rose Dorothy Haber on November 6, 1955,
in Jacksonville, Florida.

1954

RICHARD ARTMAN HARTLEY was married to
Susannah Paige Smith on November 5,

1955-
1955

Bitty G. FuQUA was married to Marcia
Randall on July 8, 1955, in St. Joseph, Mis-
souri. Washington and Lee members of the
wedding were WALTER R. RANDALL, JR.,
52; Bitty V. Ayres, 37; ELBRIDGE G. Bar-
KER, IV, 51; and THomas J. HIL1, IV, ‘52.
Billy graduated in June from the Univer-
sity of Louisville Law School and, after
passing the state bar examination, opened
an office in Russellville, Kentucky.

SIDNEY MILLS ROGERS, JR., was married to
Bette Gwendolyn Thomas on November
12, 1955, in Danville, Virginia.

BEAUREGARD ANDREW REDMOND — and
Suzanne Angele ‘Toledano were married
October 15, 1955, in New Orleans, Louis-
lana.

 

1929

Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED C. JUNKIN are the
parents of a son, Preston Davis, born
November 10, 1955.

1930
Mr. and Mrs. JosepH C. Broapbus are the
parents of a daughter, Anne Elizabeth,
born October 17, 1955.

1936

Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp S. Boze, Jr., are the

parents of a son, Blair Manson, born
August 24, 1955.

1945

Mr. and Mrs. Roperr BERTINI are the
parents of a daughter, Mary Elizabeth,
born July 29, 1955. They also have a son
four years old.

1946

Dr. and Mrs. Parrick C. DEVINE are the
parents of a son, Patrick Campbell, Jr.,
born October 26, 1955.

1947

Mr. and Mrs. HARRISON KINNEY are the
parents of a second daughter, Barbara Lee,
born on August 28, 1955.

1949

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. R. SCHOENFELD are
the parents of a son, John Reid, born
September 3, 1955.

1951

Mr. and Mrs. F. J. AHERN are the parents
of a daughter, Nancy Jane, born Novem-
ber 22, 1955. Their son, F. J., Jr., was
born February 9, 1953.

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN OTHO MARSH, JR., are
the parents of a son, John Robert Marsh,
born October 20, 1955.

Mr. and Mrs. Davin E. Ryker are the par-
ents of a son, David Christopher, born
October 6, 1955.

Mr. and Mrs. Ep BASSETT are the parents
of a daughter, Sarah Jack, born October

15, 1955:

1954

Lr. and Mrs. E. Ross WAGNER, JR., are the
parents of a son, Edward Ross, III, born
November 11, 1955, at Camp Pendleton,
California. Address: g0g Buena Vista, San
Clemente, California.

Don’t forget to

turn the page

 

27

 

 

S emetlhing le Shink About

a Despite numerous salary increases, Wash-
ington and Lee’s teachers have fallen victim
to the times. Their real income has de-
creased appreciably during the past decade
and a half. In effect, therefore, those who
teach are subsidizing the University by their
own financial sacrifice, in return for the
opportunity to continue the mission which Additional funds must be found to eliminate

they consider so vital to our way of life. this sacrifice.

m It has been said that the heart of a Uni-
versity is its library. At Washington and
Lee the libraries have experienced steady
growth; that growth has not been suff-
ciently rapid, however, to keep pace with

the demands imposed by minds inquiring Addition funds must be found for books for

after ever-increasing amounts of knowledge. the use of inquiring minds.

a justifiable pride in Washington and Lee’s
environment for living and learning is the
birthright of every alumnus. Yet just as
that environment has changed and in-
proved steadily since the days of Liberty
Hall, so it must continue to change and
improve in the years ahead. To stand still
is to retrogress; and to retrogress is to deny
the value of past gains and limit the scope Additional funds must be found to assure an

of future opportunities. ever-improving educational environment.
‘These are basic and immediate needs.
Annual giving can provide a large portion of the additional income that is required.

If you have not yet made your contribution to the 1955-56 Alumni F und, please do
so TODAY. Send your gift to your Class Agent or directly to the University. Either

way your class will receive credit.

 

 

ns

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

(with Crest in five colors)

 

This Chair made from Northern Birch and Rock Maple—Finished in Black
with Gold trim (arms finished in Cherry.) A perfect Gift for an Alumnus
for Christmas, Birthday, Anniversary or Wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to the

scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $25.00, f.o.b. Gardner, Mass.—Delivery within three weeks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ommemorative Plates
Wedgwood

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $21.00 per set
(in Blue only
Shipping Charges Prepaid

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

