oO

umniMag

Washington and

fee Univ

@vsi
Oo

aZIN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WO. ima INO. 5S

MAY 1936

$2.50 a year

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washineton and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law
Marcum and Gibson

First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal
Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building

Atlanta, Georgia

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

 

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
- Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

 

 

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House
Charleston, West Virginia

C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 30 N. Michigan Avenue

Cincinnati
Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

-Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon lLathem, Florida National Bank
Building.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.

Louisville, Kentuc
E. A. Dodd, Louisville Trust Building.

Memphis, Tennessee
George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.

New Orleans, Louisiana
Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.

Northern Louisiana Association

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Joe E. Birnie, 800 E. Main Street.
Roanoke, Virginia

Eark A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Rockingham County Association
W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of Southern Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles.
St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.

Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. XI MAY 1936 No. 5

 

Bator x. ..2.4e Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor. RicHarp Powe i Carter, 1929

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presdent... 650266 ...Dr. J. W. Citaupy, 1909
Vice-President... H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
Secretary .......... Harry K. (“Cy”) Younc, 1917
TUT iio. cea M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powe tt, 1929
CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914
HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930

Kr Wittuiams, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for May 1936

PAGE
The President’s Page. ............:.:sccssssssssssssesessensescesenessensaonensens 3
“Old George” Comes Down. ...........c:ccccccseeeseeeseeete rset ennnenene +
Three Generations of Grahams ................:cccececccceeeeseesereeeeees 7
Freshman Camp—An Experiment.............:.:::ccceereeteeres 9
A. Death CE MeO Lie ace rte dc ent deena reali 11
The 187th Washington and Lee Fimals.............0:0::es 13
Describes Dinner With General Lee.................::.::ceeseeteeeeeees 15
A Success Story im FIOUr.............ccccec teeter teeeeseseeseseneesens 19
Spring Sports at Washington and Lee............c. cee 21
Local Alumni Association Notes. .............::ccccsceseeeereseeeeesees 22

ial I SSL cave Biers ctee shun pO eeh abn 25

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

a * y/ sp)

IAA CemeTOT TIN

| | Nas

it My
Ve uy an) | }y
IS @y wh
PSS ONL yt

s " >> / at if
a’, 1 ) Vise ive vy: SY im ll
| aed :

: ot ee

hkl

ae

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Developing “Standards of Student Lite”

(The President's Page)

S I WRITE THESE LINES here in the middle of
May the clatter of construction is in the campus
atmosphere. Mens

Tucker Hall stands already complete in its dignity,
a marvel of adequacy for teaching purposes
and a fulfillment of the line of beauty which
marks this venerable hilltop. But the concrete
mixers are preparing material to be poured in
for the walls and floors of the remodeled Wash-
ington College group; the steel frames are be-
ing set in the rear wing of Newcomb Hall
which is to be made roughly comparable to the
rear of Tucker Hall; books in the Carnegie
Library are being moved out of the stack rooms
so that during the summer months this section
of the building may be made fireproof ; across
Washington Street from the campus, where the
old Alumni Building stood, the walls of the new Student
Union are all above basement height.

x *« *

I suppose it can not be said too often, for some ap-
prehension has already been expressed at this point,
that the plans for the old Washington College Building
call for no change whatever in external appearance.
Personally I should like to think that this building is for
eternity. The president of one of the greatest of all
American universities said recently at a public dinner
that the group of buildings which we call our central
group is the most beautiful single academic effect in

America.
x * x

It is comforting to think that Washington and Lee
thus prepares itself for greater competence, for a more
pronounced physical fitness in giving instruction to the
fine boys who come to this campus. It seems to me,
however, that there are other phases of progress which
are probably more significant, though by no means so

obvious.
k * x

I have been gratified beyond measure this year at
two developments in the standards of student life. Both
came about through the volition of the boys themselves.
One of these changes is the abolition of the old “Vigi-
lance Committee” policy, the last survival from the per-

 

iod of hazing; no personal hazing was permitted by this
system but there was a sort of informal court which
awarded penalties to the offenders. This plan has been
entirely abandoned. The other change is in the abolition
of “Hell Week,” voted out by action of our fraternities.
a

I am encouraged by these developments be-
cause I have an invariable conviction that the
spirit among the Washington and Lee students
should be that of a kind of fraternity brother-
hood. One of the distinct advantages of the small
college, it seems to me, is in the protecting and
maintaining of friendship between a given in-
dividual and the entire group. This kind of
friendship challenges the boy, sustains him in
his discouragements, elicits from him the best
performance. It also enriches his life with de-
posits of interest and sympathy from his fel-
lows; probably this enrichment is one of the supreme
contributions that a college can make to a boy. Under
these circumstances the campus experience is not only
an individual education but is training in the best co-
ordination which an individual can achieve with a group.

*x* *«* *

Alumni will be interested in many other develop-
ments in the life of the boys themselves. For one thing,
these boys virtually created the new Little Theatre, an
important addition to campus life. Some alumni will be
extremely glad to know that there is a real revival of
interest in rowing, again the work of the boys them-
selves. All alumni will have a deep sense of pride in the
fact that the honor system has been safeguarded by the
present generation of students. This plan has cracked,
if not actually broken up, on several American cam-
puses. Surely the last few years have put enormous
strain on this policy whereby students are governed prin-
cipally by their own coercions in honorable performance.
But I think its effectiveness on this campus has never
been seriously questioned; and I believe the boys them-
selves treasure it as deeply as any generation of Wash-
ington and Lee students ever did.

i (SCT eT

[ 3 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

~ “Old George’ Comes Down

LD GEORGE came down from his pedestal at Wash-
ington and Lee University a few days ago as stu-
dents, townspeople and professors gathered about

to pay homage to him,

They put a few ropes
about “Old George’ and
gently brought him down
from the cupola of Washing-
ton College, where he has
surveyed “the most beautiful
campus in America” for ap-
proximately 100 years.

He went up to his perch
a century ago by way of a
block and tackle—he came
down in a modern if impro-
vised elevator erected along-
side the Washington College
buildings by workmen en-
gaged in remodeling them.

“Old George” is a wood-
en statue of George Wash-
ington, dubbed in that man-
ner no one knows how long
ago. His trip down in the el-
evator was his first since he
took up “residence” atop
Washington College, main
group of buildings.

Taking the statue down
would have been an event in
itself, but it was something
more than that in the history
of the Old Dominion’s rich
educational lore because it
was another definite step in
renovation and reconstruction
of some of the buildings at
this institution which was
endowed by Washington and
presided over by Lee.

Part of Washington and Lee’s campus today is clut-
tered up with all the brick and sand and other things
contractors collect when they start remodeling structures.
Class work, however, is proceeding without interruption
with professors and students carrying on their classes

By RicHARD POWELL CARTER

 

“Old George” as he came down from the cupola

44

for the moment in places that were strange to them.
It’s a far cry from that day in 1749 when a small
group of Scotch-Irish settlers in Augusta county just

north of Lexington founded

Augusta Academy, the little |

classical school that has
grown into Washington and
Lee University.

It’s a far cry, and when
the present four-point re-
modelling program is com-
pleted some of Virginia’s
most historic academic build-
ings will have been fire-
proofed and modernized and
restored. Workmen now are
reconstructing the interior of
Washington College, which
according to all available
records was erected in 1824,
an old board ripped last week
from the walls of the build-
ing carried the date 1812.
The rear of Newcomb Hall,
which has served as admin-
istration building and as the
home of the school of com-
merce, has been demolished
and is being rebuilt so it will
conform in design with the
New ‘Tucker Hall, which
stands at the opposite end of
Washington College.

But when it’s all finished
the exterior of most of the
buildings will be practically
as it is now. The world-
famous colonnade that runs

the length of the buildings

facing the campus _ proper
will remain just as it is, only

it will be brighter from painting and cleaning. And when
it’s all over, “Old George”’ will be taken from his place
of safety in the vault of New Tucker Hall and put back
on a firmer footrest on Washington College.

The present remodeling program is just another step

> ee ME aX: .

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

in the progress that has marked Washington and Lee
since its founding as Augusta Academy. The name Au-
gusta Academy was changed to Liberty Hall on May 6,
1776, and in 1780 the school was moved to the imme-
diate vicinity of Lexington.

All of the physical remains of Liberty Hall are two
gray stone walls that keep watch from a hill near the
University’s present athletic field.

Liberty Hall was incorporated as Liberty Hall Acad-
emy in 1782, and a short while later George Washington
made a gift to the school that started a development pro-
gram that is
still going on.

The Legis-
lature of Vir-
ginia voted
Washington a
number of
shares in an
old canal com-
pany; but the
First Presi-
dent, refusing
to accept the
stock for his
personal gain,
endowed the
Liberty Hall
Academy with
it — the stock
had a value of

—

~ ~
tip .

$50,000.
Washington _— =
and Lee, by

careful invest-
ment and some
changes in the canal company brought about by absorp-
tion of the canal property by railways, still derives a
yearly income of $3,000 from Washington’s gift.

In recognition of that endowment, the trustees chang-
ed the name of the institution to Washington Academy.
It became Washington College in 1813, by act of the
Legislature of the State.

Washington’s ‘gift of canal stock inspired another
gift, this one of some $25,000, from the Society of the
Cincinnati, a fraternal organization of officers of the
Revolutionary War.

The next most important phase in the development
of the university came when General Robert E. Lee ac-
cepted the presidency of Washington College. He was
installed as head of the institution on October 2, 1865,
just after laying aside his sword, and held the office
until his death in Lexington October 12, 1870. It was at

 

A view of the rear campus in the first stage of construction behind Washington College, showing
the hoist on which “Old George” came down

Washington College that Lee stamped himself as Lee
the educator as well as Lee the soldier and Lee the man.

The house in which the Southern leader lived and
died at Washington College still stands on the campus
much the same as it was during the postwar period.
Modern improvements, of course, have been made on
the interior.

Lee’s home is occupied now by Dr. Francis P. Gaines,
president of Washington and Lee since 1930, and one
of the foremost authorities on the life and work of the
man whose educational dreams are being completed un-
der his guid-
ance.

It was Gen-
eral Lee who
conceived the
idea of a school
of law at W.
and L. — his
idea is reality
in New Tuck-
er Hall, just
completed at a
cost of well
over $100,000
and drawing
an enrollment
from widely
scattered sec-
tions of the
United States.

It was Lee
who sponsored
the organiza-
tion of a school
of civil and
mining engineering, which recently has given way to
study in closely related subjects.

It was Lee who launched in 1867, with the approval
of the faculty as in other cases, a ‘students’ business
school” that has grown into the present school of com-
merce and business administration. It was Lee who in
1869 saw that a practical and theoretical course in jour-
nalism, with 50 press scholarships, was established at
Washington College “to encourage college-trained men
to enter journalism as a profession.” Educational his-
torians agree that the courses in business and journalism
at Washington College were the first of their type in
America. Dean Glover Dunn Hancock now heads the
school of commerce and business administration; O. W.
Riegel is director of journalism, which is endowed under
the Lee Memorial Fund by the Southern Newspaper
Publishers’ Association.

Be

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

In 1871, very soon after the death of Lee, the insti-
tution’s name was changed again, this time to Washing-
ton and Lee University. The Confederate hero is buried
in Lee Chapel, which nestles at the foot of the campus,
directly facing Washington College.

Washington and Lee’s enrollment is representative
of every part of the United States. In a student body of
954 February 1 of this year, 36 states were represented
along with the Canal Zone, Ha-
wail, Mexico and Peru.

Registration figures Febru-
ary 1 showed 628 students in
the college proper; 15 in the
school of commerce; 77 in the
school of science; and 95 in the
school of law.

Besides Washington College
and Newcomb Hall, the re-
modeling program at the uni-
versity includes fireproofing
sections of the Carnegie library
and erection of a modern stu-
dent union building on the site
of the old -alumni_ building
across from the Robert E. Lee
Memorial Church at the “sou-
thern” entrance to the campus.

Complete fireproofing and
renovation of Washington Col-
lege is the focal point in the
program. Workmen are con-
centrating their attention now
on the central section of the
Washington College group,
where administrative offices of
the university will be moved
from their present location in
Newcomb Hall. Plans for Washington College’s re-
modeling also include restoration of a chapel originally
built in the front section of the central unit.

Newcomb Hall will be considerably enlarged, with
the rear section devoted in part to a commerce library.
Offices for faculty members will be distributed in all
buildings according to location of departments.

Newcomb Hall was erected in 1882 by Mrs. Joseph-
ine Louise Newcomb of New York in memory of her
husband, Warren Newcomb.

Work on the Carnegie library, built in 1908 through
the generosity of Andrew Carnegie, will not start until
after the summer vacation begins in June in order to af-
ford a minimum interruption to class work.

The entire program, which will cost about $260,000,
is expected to be completed in 10 months. But before

 

‘The historic school bell

then—in about two months, contractors say—“Old

George” will be put back on his pedestal after being
“touched up” so he can withstand more storms and sun-
shine. When he’s back, he’ll have reason to be more
proud of his lofty position, and contemplate more ex-
pansion for Washington and Lee’s campus.

At all events, “Old George,’ though he was the tar-
get of many freshman

pranks for many years, might
well symbolize what Washing-
ton said in part in a letter to
trustees of Washington Acad-
emy June 17, 1798, when he
learned that the institution bore
his name:

“To promote literature in
this rising empire and to en-
courage the arts have ever been
amongst the warmest wishes of
my heart, and if the donation
which the generosity of the
Legislature of the Common-
wealth of Virginia has enabled
me to bestow on Liberty Hall—
now by your politeness called
Washington Academy—is like-
ly to prove a means to accom-
plish these ends, it will con-
tribute to the gratification of
my desires.”

—Reprinted from The Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch of Sun-
day, May 10, 1936.

* * *

In connection with the de-
molishing of the old alumni
building preparatory to the
erection of a student union, a
Washington hand press approximately 100 years old was
discovered by workmen. It had been dismantled and
stored in the basement some years ago.

C. Harold Lauck, superintendent of the journalism
laboratory, said he plans to have the old press set up
and put into use for making proofs as well as keeping
it for its historical value. It appears ‘in good condition
despite its age, he says.

The Washington hand press was invented by Sam-
uel Rust in 1829 and is no longer manufactured, al-
though many of them are said to be still in use. The
serial number of the press found here, 2765, indicates
that it is about 100 years old, Mr. Lauck said. It will be
put on display by the Washington and Lee Journalism
Laboratory Press when it moves into its new quarters
this summer.

  

eae aes
w ce ees tacnecieding

removed from its belfry

.e]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Three Generations of Grahams

By R.P.C.

ACK IN 1866, shortly after General Robert E. Lee

had settled down in Lexington as president of
Washington College, a group of approximately ten young
men from middle Tennessee came to study under the
Southern leader who had be-
come educator after being
soldier.

In the group was the first
John Meredith Graham.

Later, in 1889 to be ex-
act, another John Meredith
Graham, son of the first,
journeyed to Lexington, also
coming out of Tennessee to
study. This young man en-
tered Washington and Lee
while General Custis Lee was
president of the institution.

Recently, in 1929 this
time, still another John Mer-
edith Graham turned to Lex-
ington for his education. But
this one came not from Tenn-
essee, but from Georgia,
where his father, the second
John Meredith Graham, had
settled.

So it is that Washington
and Lee alumni records show
three generations of the Gra-
hams. And each of them, the
records show, either achieved
success or is achieving success.

The story started when Verner M. Jones of Nash-
ville penned a few lines to the office of the alumni sec-
retary and suggested that there was “a story in the three
Grahams.” It required a little time to get that story to-
gether, but here is it, after so much delay:

The first John Meredith Graham was born in Frank-
lin, Tennessee, in 1847, and died in 1907. In the words
of his son, the second John Meredith Graham, “he was
a worshipper of Lee—regarding him as the man nearer
perfection than any other man—dead or living.” He was
a member of Sigma Chi while at Washington College.

The first of the Grahams went out from school to

 

John Meredith Graham, I

become a manufacturer and planter and was highly in-
terested in education, helping numerous young men who
wanted the advantages of college work. He has been
‘a cultured gentleman, with Robert E. Lee

described as
as his model.”

John Meredith Graham,
Il, was born in Pinewood,
Tennessee, in 1873, and mi-
grated to Rome, Georgia, af-

ter college. He was at Wash-

ington and Lee only one
year, but that was under
General Custis Lee from

whom he received much in-
spiration.

This second Graham be-
came a highly successful bus-
iness man and banker, and
present editions of “Who's
Who” accord him due recog-
nition.

He was organizer of the
National City Bank of Rome,
Georgia, and has been its
president for 23 years. In his
letter when asked for infor-
mation on which to base this
article, he said ‘‘for some un-
known reason I have _ per-
formed well enough to be
found in ‘Who’s Who.” It
takes only a glance at his
record in that thick red book
to see why he is listed there.

John Meredith Graham, III, was born in Rome,
Georgia, July 24, 1912, and was graduated from the
Darlington School for Boys in that city before he en-
tered Washington and Lee university in 1929.

The last of the three Grahams made a brilliant rec-
ord at his alma mater, and was graduated from the school
of law in 1935. While at the University he was a mem-
ber of Kappa Alpha, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi
Delta Phi.

At present he is practicing law with Barry Wright
in Rome, Ga., and from all reports is getting along fine.

Lia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Leaving for Camp. 2. Playground Baseball g. Faculty and Student Councilors 4. The Pool 5- Adirondack Shack

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Freshman Camp—An Experiment

By JAMES L,. PRICE, JR.
Student Councilor, Freshman Camp 1935

RRIVING IN Lexington from various parts of the

United States the somewhat confused and home-

sick boy entering Washington and Lee is thrown
into a wholly unfamiliar whirl of collegiate activity. The
sundry interests of a university student, the rush of for-
mulating schedules, the persistence of furniture sales-
men and laundry solicitors, fraternity dating, the hust-
ling bustling din of transition from the summer vaca-
tion to school work. Some boys are welcomed with fa-
miliar calls; others are greeted by a sea of new faces.
This is the experience, the harrowing experience of
“opening week.”

But not so for the youth who has attended Fresh-
man Camp. True he has to cope with problems, his life
is his own, he is rushed into the maelstrom of frater-
nity rushing and date mixing. Confusion reigns; how-
ever, he is prepared for such an occasion. The naive and
sophisticate alike has been introduced to a_ selected
group of upper-classmen and faculty members from
whom he feels free to ask help.

Campers have been graphically told how the frater-
nity system works; the various organizations have been
represented to them, and talks on various phases of
campus life have tended to clarify and explain. Perhaps
most of all the freshmen know each other. Dressed to
the moment now and not in the shirt sleeves and slacks
as at camp, there is however that familiar face, that
friendly smile, that glimpse of recognition.

The ninth annual Washington. and Lee Freshman
Camp, which will be held at Camp Powhatan in the
Blue Ridge approximately eighteen miles from Lexing-
ton on September 11-14, 1936, is very different from
the first camp held in 1928, both in size and purpose.

The idea of a camp for freshmen conducted by
the administration, a relatively novel experiment in the
collegiate processes of orienting new students, has been
in the course of evolution at W. and L. for nearly a de-
cade. In 1928 Mr. Houston Patterson, °19, then secre-
tary of the University Y. M. C. A., conceived the notion
of establishing a pre-college camp for a group of incom-
ing men who had previously interested themselves in
“Hi Y” work.

Writing a group of prospective students Mr. Pat-
terson interested approximately twenty men in his idea.
Camp Kent, a Virginia Y. M, C. A. establishment, was

selected for the first assembly which was purposed to ac-
quaint the boys with Christian work on the campus and
to discuss plans for the coming year.

This innovation being successful, Mumsey Gleaton,
who had succeeded Patterson as Y. M. C. A. head, con-
ducted the Hi Y camp in 1929. In 1930 Gleaton was
assisted by Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students, but the
camp was essentially conducted for those selected few
interested in Christian work. It was at this time that Mr.
Gilliam became interested in the informal assembly of
new men and sought to extend the facilities and objec-
tives of the camp.

The success of Washington and Lee’s Freshman
Camp, no longer an experiment but an official part of
University life, from a consideration of its nine years of
service can be attributed to no single individual or
group. The cooperative spirit of students, faculty and
campers, the unquenchable feeling of helpfulness, cour-
tesy and friendliness, so indissoluble a part of campus
tradition, has made the Freshman Camp an established
institution.

If, however, we should seek to attribute the foun-
dation and progress of the camp to personalities, Dean
Frank J. Gilliam and Richard Edwards, ’35, should be
cited. Mr. Gilliam has been the organizing and driving
force. In recognition of his energy and capabilities he
has been given complete control over the program and
administration of the camp. His friendliness, affability
and informal direction will ever be remembered by the
campers and those student councilors who have worked
under him. The spirit of the camp has its symbolism
and fulfilment in his devotion to the University and its
boys.

“Dick” Edwards is the only student who has attend-
ed and been actively connected with every camp since
1928. He is responsible for securing the present site
which has proven a most fortunate selection. Actively
interested in all youth movements, Dick, an active Boy
Scout, discovered Camp Powhatan, established by the
Roanoke Division of the Boy Scouts of America, and
personally made arrangements for its annual usage by
the University. In 1934 Dick served as Head Councilor
and in 1935 returned as an alumnus to be the guest
speaker at the Campfire Ring.

The chief purpose of the camp is to give to the new

fs

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

men an introduction into the life and conditions at Wash-
ington and Lee. This introduction takes place under the
most favorable surroundings, apart from the whirl and
excitement attendant upon the first week of college so
obviously confusing to the freshman.

Camp Powhatan is located in a beautiful wooded
area at the base of the Blue Ridge. The rustic nature of
the surrounding scenery and the segregation of new men,
faculty and student leaders, from any distractions give
to the physical attractiveness of the camp a quality not
incongruous to its purposes. Before the establishment of
this camp the freshmen learned of their University from
the formal address platform. Now he learns the funda-
mental principle of Washington and Lee life camping
at the foot of the Blue Ridge. The freshman does not
stay long at Freshman Camp until he feels an intimacy
of spirit, forms new and lasting acquaintances, and fa-
miliarizes himself with campus personalities, organiza-
tions and activities. He begins to be conscious that at
last he is a part of a fortunate class, a student body, a
closely knitted fellowship of Washington and Lee gentle-
men.

The program seeks primarily to be informal. Wash-
ing and Lee does not seek to force its qualities upon
new men. The process of becoming freshmen should not
be an arduous task but a pleasant one. Talks are not
factual addresses but rather familiar chats. Assemblies
are frequently interspersed with play periods. Games,
seeking to break down any feeling of individuality or
loneliness, are fostered. It can be said that the camp
at all times seeks to clarify freshman problems. The
campers are naturally full of burning questions, the
councilors on the other hand are more than anxious to
try and iron out such problems.

Perhaps the reader would be interested in the formal
program of Freshman Camp. Most important are its
ideals, purposes and the realization of these somewhat
ephemeral’ things, but what is annually planned to make
possible the successful camp?

The boys are first thrown together in a massed trans-
port from Lexington to Camp Powhatan. Busses are
loaded with boys who have been instructed that camping
togs and accessories are all that is needed.

Arriving at the camp, the students are greeted by a
group of twelve upperclassmen, selected because of
their potential qualifications of leadership and their ac-
tivity on the campus, and a similar number of faculty
members. Camp has already been set up. Each boy is
presented with a roster of names, and a cabin assignment
is made. After a short time has been allowed for bunk
mates to familiarize themselves with the camp and with
each other, the supper bell rings out.

There need be but little coaxing to attract the camp-

ers to Garrett-Gooch Hall where tables have been sup-
plied with wholesome food. After supper the camp is
called in assembly where leaders are introduced and a
few introductory remarks made. An early retirement is
provided for, because the excitement and adventure of
the day and days to come has made everyone weary. A
faint breeze stirs the grove of stately trees, and then all |
is quiet save for an occasional noise of the night.

The next day proves to be a full one. The camp pool
chills a robust group of early swimmers, who after the
first dip look vainly for bits of floating ice along the
water's surface. Breakfast officially begins the day,
followed by morning announcements, horse-shoes, base-
ball, touch football, hikes and all sorts of team games.

After a noonday meal, organized hikes call together
new found friends, and councilors who chat about this
and that, mostly about Washington and Lee, as they
wind their way up the mountainside. Glimpses back-
ward show the lowlander for the first time the beauties
of the valley below. The ascent continues and when the
top is once reached the freshmen and even those who
have made the trip many times before, view in admira-
tion the spectacle of the Blue Ridge.

Following return to camp of the tired boys supper
is served, and the campers assemble around the fascinat-
ing flames which soar upward from the altar of Pow-
hatan’s Circle. Here it is that the freshmen are intro-
duced to extra-curricular activity, publications and clubs.
Here it is that the honor system, haloed in all its pris-
tine idealism and revered through the years because of
its practical and respectful usage, is revealed to its future
standard bearers.

As the embers fade, the circle is broken up and the
boys slowly wander back to Garrett-Gooch Hall, reflect-
ing upon the things they have seen and heard. In this”
spirit the campers welcome a musical outburst. The
“Swing” thrills them for the first time, led by the reso-
nant and melodious voice of Registrar Earl S. Mattingly.
Professor Graham’s tenor encourages harmony and
soon the familiar songs of yester year and the popular
tunes of the day are rendered in a convivial and intimate
manner.

Sunday at camp is a day of restful fellowship. Ser-
vices in the morning are conducted by some selected
Lexington minister in the reverential atmosphere of
rocks, trees and sunlight. Guests at the morning camp
sessions are Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of the
University, who speaks before the freshmen for the first
time and instantaneously wins their admiration and re-
spect ; and Coaches “Tex” Tilson and “Cy” Young, who
intimately meet those men with whom they will work
and play on the athletic fields. The president of the
student body too, gets a brief glimpse of his problem,

[ 10 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

hoping above all that they have caught the spirit of
friendship, courtesy and honor, attributes of Washington
and Lee men.

In the afternoon a swimming meet is held in the ex-
hilarating waters of the Powhatan pool. Shacks that
have sought out their aquatic stars, compete with one
another.

Supper is followed by another and final campfire
assembly. Here it is that the program is officially cul-
minated. Dean Gilliam gives annually at this time a
timely talk on the fraternity system of rushing, prepar-
ing a group of anxious youths for the disappointments
and pleasures which accompany the life of a “Modern
Greek.”

Dawn follows the night and camp is a buzz of ac-
tivity, everyone anxious to get back to the campus and
realize the experiences revealed to them around the
campfire ring, and in every phase of camp activity.

This is an exemplary cross section of life at Powha-
tan. The Freshman Camp, popular from its birth, has been
constantly growing in prestige. The capacity of Powha-
tan has been filled. In 1931 eighty-five boys enjoyed
the fellowship; in 1936 plans have been laid to accomo-
date 125 freshmen. In its eight years of existence the
camp has suffered from only one rainy day and has sus-
tained no serious accidents. The camp, as it has been
conducted, has met with the enthusiastic endorsement
of the administration, members of the faculty and prac-
tically every student who has attended. In the words of
its director “it is generally felt that a new student can
have no finer introduction to the work, the play, the
friendships, the traditions, and the idealism of Wash-
ington and Lee than that afforded by the Freshman
Camp.

 

Lexington Most American Town

GEN. FriEpRICH VON BOETTICHER, military attache
of the German Embassy, has traveled over most of the
United States and finds the most American town to be—
Lexington, Va.

General von Boetticher feels that he would like to
take all strangers to this pleasant place and let them
see “the soul of America.” He loves the old college
there, Washington and Lee University, and thinks it
honors the two men who in many respects were the
greatest Americans.

He cannot take all of his visitors to Lexington, un-
fortunately, the general says, but he does drive them to
Arlington where, as he is, they are deeply impressed with
the Confederate monument.—Helen Essary in The
IVashington Times, April 1, 1936.

A Dean of Executives

CHaARLEs J. FAULKNER, JR., who received his law de-
gree from Washington and Lee in 1898, has set an en-
viable record with Armour and Company.

He holds the title of general counsel for that com-
pany, and according to information received in Lexing-
ton has held the position
under four different presi-
dents of the organization.

A circular received from

Armour and Company
shows Mr. Faulkner’s pho-
tograph along with four

other members of the board
of directors, and refers to
him as one who “has the
confidence and esteem of the
organization and is the dean
of the executives.”’ He has
been a director of the com-
pany since 1928.

 

Charles J. Faulkner, Jr.

Mr. Faulkner was born in Martinsburg, West Va.,
but spent much of his youth in Washington, D. C., be-
cause his father represented West Virginia in the Sen-
ate for a number of years. He attended private schools
before coming to Lexington to study law, and while in
the national capital made numerous friends and became
acquainted thoroughly with governmental affairs.

Leaving Washington and Lee, Mr. Faulkner began
the practice of law in Chicago in 1900. He joined the
firm of Peck, Miller and Starr, described as one of the
leading law firms in the middle west.

He did not remain with the firm long, however, be-
fore opening his own law office. In 1905 he became as-
sociated with the legal department of Armour and Com-
pany and progressed so rapidly that in 1912 he was
made assistant general counsel.

“In 1917,” a bulletin from Armour and Company
points out, “Mr. Faulkner was appointed general coun-
sel and for the last 18 years he has been in charge of
all legal matters of the company, not only in this coun-
try, but abroad.

“He has also been connected with various important
international matters, having represented American in-
terests in the German potash controversy in 1910-1912
and the British seizure of American meat shipments in
1915.”

Mr. Faulkner lives in Chicago and keeps up his in-
terest in Washington and Lee despite the heavy demand
made on his time by the responsibilities he has assumed
in recent years.

[ 11 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“Friends of Education”

A NEw sTory in the “romance of reconciliation” be-
tween the north and the south in the days immediately
following Appomattox has been brought to light at Wash-
ington and Lee.

At the outbreak of the War Between the States, so
the story goes, President Lincoln called Thomas A.
Scott, eminent railway man, to be assistant secretary of
war. He was charged particularly with transportation,
and one of his duties was to “so dispose of Federal troops
and resources as to bring about the defeat of General
Robert E. Lee.” |

After Lee’s surrender, however, Dr. Francis P.
Gaines says in a booklet published at the University,
“Scott joined hands with Lee in another and nobler war-
fare for the soldiers who go forth to battle for a higher
civilization. The several contributions (to Washington
college, now Washington and Lee) of Scott amounted
to $60,000.” General Lee was president of the institu-
tion to which Scott gave the money.

The story is told in a booklet titled “Friends of Ed-
ucation,”’ written by Dr. Gaines, in which some of the
principal benefactors of Washington and Lee University
are listed and discussed.

Dr. Gaines in his story begins with an account of
George Washington’s gift of a block of stock in the old
James River Canal company to Liberty Hall Academy,
which became Washington and Lee. The stock, from
which the University still derives an annual income of
some $3,000, was valued at about $50,000.

“A derivative from Washington’s interest was a col-
lective gift made by the Virginia Society of the Cin-
cinnati, branch of the national order of which he himself
was the first president,” Dr. Gaines points out. Today
the head of the Washington and Lee department of
mathematics is the Society of the Cincinnati professor,
and the university offers each session an award in the
name of the society, and observes annually the Wash-
ington-Cincinnati Society convention.

Writing of Lee in a section called
“Robert E. Lee—And Gifts Not of
Gold,” Dr. Gaines says that Lee “ac-
cepting the presidency of the institu-
tion in 1865, brought to it a contri-
bution of ability, character, and last-
ing influence.”

Those listed in “Friends of Ed-
ucation” as persons who have been
benefactors of Washington and Lee
include George Peabody, famous in
the history of Massachusetts; W. W.
Corcoran of Washington; Cyrus H.

 

a

McCormick ; Andrew Carnegie; Robert Parker Doremus
of New York; and John Barton Payne, who at his death
a short time ago bequeathed a substantial sum to the Uni-
versity. Numerous others also are listed in the booklet.

“Friends of Education” is profusely illustrated with
sketches of the campus and of the benefactors about
whom Dr. Gaines writes. It was printed under the di-
rection of C. Harold Lauck at the Journalism Labora-
tory Press at Washington and Lee and was distributed
from Dr. Gaines’ office.

 

Courtesy on the Campus

“T am in Lexington two or three times a year . . . one
thing strikes me as most admirable and characteristic.
Walking on the campus practically every undergraduate
I met would stop, lift his hat, and say most courteously,
‘Is there anything I can do for you, sir, and may I direct
you to where you wish to go?’

“This courtesy made a most profound impression
upon me and whether it is the influence of George Wash-
ington, General Lee, General Custis Lee, the old-time
Southern courtesy, or the modern faculty and students,
it is a beautiful custom and one most gratifying to vis-
itors, particularly old alumni who delight in the old
buildings but sorrow over the past.

Harrison B. Smirn, 1884
Charleston, West Va.”

 

THE LAW SCHOOL LIBRARY has been presented with a
set of the Florida Compiled Statutes, with 1934 Supple-
ment, by the Harrison Company, at the request of Mr.
James M. Carson, Mr. Lewis Twyman and Judge Paul
D. Barnes, of our Miami alumni.

The interest manifested in the law school by such
acts of our alumni is greatly appreciated by the law
school faculty.

 

THE WASHINGTON LITERARY So-
ciety defeated the Graham-Lee for the
intersociety cup again this year. To
win the cup, one of the societies must
win two out of three debates. Last
year the Washington Society did not
lose a contest, and this was the sec-
ond straight victory this year.

 

Donacp S. STANT, 1913, has serv-
ed with distinction as a member of the
Old Dominion’s General Assembly,
His home is in Bristol, Va.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The 187th Washington and Lee Finals

By AvBert J. DURANTE, JR.
Student of Journalism at Washington and Lee

AL Kemp, Skinnay Ennis, Maxine Gray, Bob Allen

and ‘“‘Saxie” Dowell, those musical entertainers who
made the first two days of Finals in 1935 such a success
will be back in Lexington the night of June 10 when
they will provide the music for the first event on the
Finals program for 1936, Interfraternity Ball. Unlike
last year when the North Carolina maestro was forced
to leave after playing such fine dance music for the first
two days, Hal Kemp’s orchestra will be in Doremus gym-
nasium to play for all the dances on the Finals program.
When it was announced to the students that Hal
Kemp would be in town for Finals, there was a definite
agreement among practically all of them that they would
remain in Lexington after exams and subscribe to Finals.
Although the drive for subscriptions has not started as
yet it is practically assured that there will be a larger
number of students here for Finals this year than at
any time heretofore. Every alumnus that Cy Young
has talked with gave his assurance that he would be back.

—— gf

 

Finals will be the first opportunity for many grad-
uates of Washington and Lee University to see the
many improvements that have been made to its beautiful
campus. Tucker Hall, which was burned down only last
year has been replaced by a modern “New Tucker Hall.”
The law students are now housed in one of the most
modern buildings on any campus. It stands at the north-
east end of the Washington College group of buildings
and is in complete harmony with the colonial architec-
ture of the entire group.

Another rather unusual sight for former Washing-
ton and Lee men will be Washington College without the
ever faithful bell atop of it and also minus the statue of
“Old George” which has been painted by freshmen on
Freshman Night for many years. The reason is that
work has already started on the renovation and _ fire-
proofing of the main building of this institution of learn-
ing necessitating the removal of both of these land-
marks. At present the bell is hanging behind Reid Hall

*

An Academic Procession

[ 13 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University -

where it seems to be just as faithful in ringing every
hour as it ever was atop of Washington College. Classes
are no longer being held in this building but have been
shifted temporarily to Reid Hall and the New Tucker
Hall, which seems to annoy the law students no little
since it causes them to mix with the academic students
in their new building, which they take much pride in.
But it will not be for long if the present pace of the
builders can be deemed any indication of the date they
will finish their work.

Newcomb Hall will also present an unfamiliar sight
to returning alumni. Work on the reno-
vation of the interior of this building
has not begun as yet but enlarging of
the building to complete the harmony
with the New Tucker Hall is already in
progress and the exterior work may be
completed before the first alumnus re-

turns to Lexington to enjoy Finals on |e” sisi, gall

June 10.

What has always been known as the
Alumni Building will no longer be the
scene of activities for visiting alumni
because it is no longer standing. At pres-
ent there is only a foundation of what
will be a Student Union building stand-
ing in its place. The alumni work is now

being carried on in a small building op-
posite the Dutch Inn on Washington
street. Alumni meetings during Finals
will all be held in Tucker Hall.

As usual this year the boat races will
be held at 4:00 o'clock on Friday after-
noon. Both the Albert Sidney and Harry
Lee crews already have been in practice for about one
month with the competition keener than usual for
places in the four-man shells due to the overabundance
of material. Both crew captains report that there is more
interest being shown in the crew races this year than
ever before and indications are that the races may divide
the University into two groups as they did many years
ago when each crew had its supporters.

&

Finals 1936 will be also the date for a reunion of
three classes. The classes of 1899, 1906, and 1916 have
decided to hold their reunions during this Finals set.
No better time could have been chosen since such a large
return of alumni is almost an established fact.

The Finals program is as follows:

Sunday June 7

11:00 a. m.—Baccalaureate Sermon: Rev. C. Leslie
Glenn, Rector of Christ’s Church, Cambridge, Mass.

 

Frank Price, President of Finals 1936

W ednesday, June 10
10:00 p. m.—Interfraternity Ball—Hal Kemp.

Thursday, June 11
10:00 a. m.
comb Hall.
2:00 p. m.—Dedication of New Law Building by
Attorney-General Homer S. Cummings.

 

Meeting of Board of Trustees, New-

4:00 p. m.—Dansant, sponsored by Phi Gamma Delta
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities—Hal Kemp.

8:00 p. m.—Alumni Smoker—Alumni building.

9:00 p. m.—President’s Reception
to graduates, trustees, visiting alumni
and parents—President’s home.

10:00 p. m.—Senior Alumni Ball—
Hal Kemp.

Friday, June 12

8:30 a. m.—Alumni Board meeting,
Alumni building.

10:45 a. m.—Annual Procession of
trustees, faculty, and graduates.

11:00 a. m.—Commencement Exer-
cises—Lee chapel. Address by Dr. Fran-
cis Pendleton Gaines.

1:00 p. m—Alumni Luncheon—Un-
iversity Dining Hall.

2:00 p. m.—Meeting of Alumni, In-
corporated—Tucker Hall.

4:00 p. m.—Crew Boat Races on
North River.

11:00 p. m.—Final Ball—Hal Kemp.

6:00 a. m.—*College Friendships,”
Doremus gymnasium.

The program has been completed and planned to
please the returning alumni. Everyone is assured of a
fine Finals with Hal Kemp and his entertainers coming
to play for Washington and Lee. The class of 1936 is
doing everything within its power to make this, their
last Finals, the best ever, and they are counting on a
large number of graduates to come back to Lexington
on June 10 when the first of the events will begin.
When Hal Kemp plays the first dance tune of the eve-
ning everyone will be here. Don’t you be an exception!

 

Epwarp Harris, 1923, directed a half-hour broad-
cast of a dramatization of “Macbeth” over the National
Broadcasting Company network April 23. In addition to
the presentation of the play there were several short bi-
ographical sketches of William Shakespeare by author-
itative speakers.

[ 14 ]

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Describes Dinner With General Lee

By Pat Jones, 1930
Reporter, The Huntsville (Ala.) Times

FADED PHOTOGRAPH of Gen. Robert FE. Lee, taken

beside the grave of his impulsive “right arm,”

Gen. Stonewall Jackson, serves as a constant re-
minder to Miss Kate McCalley, Green street, of the fam-
ous white-haired Southern leader.

“He was genial, aristocratic, and the nicest man I
ever knew,” she says of him now.

The picture was given her by the general himself,
following a dinner in 1870 at his home on the campus
of Washington College, now Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, at Lexington, Va., where he served as president
until his death a few months later.

Miss McCalley, a 15-year-old school girl at the time,
remembers the occasion as one of the greatest moments
of her life.

General Lee came to me as I stood on the porch of
his home, ready to leave,” she recalls, “and handed me
a prayer book with the remark, ‘This is a little gift I
want you to take home with you.’ ”

Time has been kind to Miss McCalley, now in her
early 80’s. It has almost totally taken away her hearing,
but her memory is as good and her conversation as lively
as they were during her younger womanhood.

“I was at that age,’”’ she continues, “at which I could
not accept a gift without having something to say about
it, so I replied, ‘General, I have just received a new
prayer book. If you want to give me something, I would
like for it to be that photograph hanging on the wall of
your wife’s bedroom.’

“He turned to Mrs. Lee, a cripple, sitting in her
wheelchair in the hallway.

**What do you say, Mother?’

“ ‘Give it to her,’ Mrs. Lee answered tenderly.”

Miss Kate stared silently at the picture hanging above
her in her living room. Years were pushed aside by her
thoughts. Then she went on.

‘When he came back with the photograph, he laid his
hand gently on my head and whispered in my ear, ‘Now,
when you get home, I don’t want you to become tired of
this and throw it away.’ ”’

That from the most beloved man the South ever has
produced! About a picture of himself standing beside a
tomb that will attract visitors as long as it exists!

Miss McCalley’s entree to the Lee home came through
her brother, Robert Lanford McCalley, who had fought

under Lee in Virginia, and who had been wounded at the
Battle of Gettysburg.

At the outbreak of the war, Robert, a senior cadet
at the Virginia Military Institute at Lexington, Va., left
as drill master of his class to accept a captaincy in the
Confederate army. In two more months, he would have
been graduated.

After taking part in the early battles of the struggle,
he was ordered to Richmond and assigned to Colonel
Law’s staff as a major. He continued in this duty until
he was wounded in the hip and captured at Gettysburg.

For several months he was imprisoned at Johnson's
Island. Then he was paroled, while still on crutches.

McCalley went directly to General Lee. Realizing he
would be of no more service on the battlefield, the gen-
eral sent him as a spy to North Alabama, his home,
where he remained until the surrender. Because Federal
troops occupied Huntsville for some time after the war,
he remained on a plantation in Mississippi until matters
quieted down, and then returned here to study law in the
office of Walker and Brickell.

Early in 1870, he was notified by the governor of
Virginia that, if he returned to the commencement ex-
ercises at V. M. I. that June, he would be awarded the
degree he had missed by only a few weeks when the war
began. He started early plans to attend.

Miss Kate has a clear picture in her mind of the day
her brother called for her at the Virginia Female In-
stitute at Staunton, Va., where she was a student. He
wanted her to go to the finals with him.

In frenzied excitement, she packed her bags, for
they were to remain away a week. Then they took one
of the old stage coaches over the 35-mile winding route
to lexington, arriving there in the early afternoon.

Miss McCalley cannot exactly recall the name of the
hotel at which they stopped, but, to the best of her mem-
ory, it was the Richmond.

Their stay in the little Virginia college town was not
lonely. When Robert McCalley walked up to receive his
degree from the hands of General Smith, commandant
of V. M. I., he was accompanied by a Mr. Buck of near
Lynchburg, Va., the only other surviving member of his
class, who had come over for the occasion with his

. young wife.

‘Then there were other reasons why I had such a

[ 15 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

good time,” Miss McCalley explains. “Three Huntsville
boys were cadets at the institute at the time. They were
William Matthews, Erskine Mastin and Ed Moore.”

Miss Kate and her brother reached Lexington on
Tuesday. Two days later, General Lee and his daughter,
Agnes, then 29 years old, stopped by to visit them.

The Southern leader had been quick to pay his call
as soon as he learned that the young Alabaman who had
fought with his army was in town.

“General Lee was a man who never forgot anyone.”
The old lady glanced at the picture above her as she spoke.

But there were probably other reasons why the old
fellow wished to greet this young couple whose grand-
father, Robert Lanford, had built the second cabin ever
raised around the Big Spring. He was acquainted with
their family.

His headquarters at Fredericksburg had been in the
home of their aunt, Mrs. John McCalley. And that fight-
ing comrade of his, Stonewall Jackson, had died in the
residence of their great aunt, Mrs. Annie McKenney,
in the Battle of the Wilderness.

“Did you realize you were making history when you
met General Lee?’ Miss McCalley was asked.

“T didn’t think anything about it,” she replied con-
vincingly. “I was just tickled to death to meet and talk
with him.”

She sat in silence for a moment, her hands crossed
in her lap.

“But that wasn’t the first time I had met him. He was
at the fair in Staunton the Fall before, and Mr. Phil-
lips, the head of the female institute, took a group of us
girls down to see him.

“General Lee rode his horse up to the platform and
shook hands with each of us when we passed. I remem-
ber a number of the girls took off their gloves imme-
diately afterward, rolled them up and saved them.”

She smiled over the recollection.

“When I met General Lee there at the hotel, I said,
‘General, this is the first time I’ve seen you since I shook
hands with you at the fair.’ He patted me on the shoul-
der and replied, ‘Well, why didn’t you tell me who you
were?”

Before the Lees left, they invited Miss Kate and her
brother to dinner the next day at their home, the resi-
dence still occupied by the president of Washington and
Lee University.

Miss McCalley will never forget that “next day.”
It was Friday. Of that, she is positive.

“We were royally greeted when we arrived shortly
before noon. The entire family came to meet us. Even
Mrs. Lee wheeled her chair out into the hall.

“We sat for a while talking, and then we went in to

———

a delicious old-fashioned Southern dinner served by a
happy, robust negro mammy who was as much a part of
that household as anyone in it.”

Only one dish on the table that day was engraved in
Miss Kate’s mind. That was a stuffed Virginia ham.

“IT hadn’t had any ham cooked like that before, and
I enjoyed it very much,” she said.

Six persons sat down to the table that day. They
were the general and his wife, the eldest son, Gen. Custis
Lee, then 38, Agnes, and the two visitors.

Miss McCalley doesn’t remember a great deal about
the conversation during the meal. “I was too young, and
I didn’t pay much attention to what the men were say-
ing,” she explained.

But she does recall that they talked mostly about
the war.

“IT heard General Lee say, ‘Robert, you lay out there
on the field at Gettysburg 48 hours, didn’t you?’ My
brother nodded. ‘Well, what did the Yankees feed you?’
‘Hard tacks and water,’ was the reply.” |

No bitterness stole into the words of the Southern
leader, the young lady who sat at his elbow that day
assures now, 66 years later.

“*We were not whipped, I heard him say. ‘I sur- &

rendered because we were overpowered.

“No, sir, we were never whipped. I just saw no use,
Robert, in sacrificing our fire young men, so I gave up.’ ”

After dinner, Miss McCalley walked out with Gen-
eral Lee to give a few lumps of sugar to Traveller, the
famous charger that thrilled the hearts of more than one
soldier during the dark days for the South.

“He was grazing in a lot near the house,” she re-
members. “As we walked along, General Lee called,
‘Come on, boy, and take some sugar for me.’ Traveller
came galloping, his tail up and his mane flying.”

Miss McCalley’s description of the animal closely
resembles that of General Lee himself, who, while in
conversation with an artist, spoke of the horse as fol-
lows: “If I were an artist like you, I would draw a pic-
ture of Traveller representing his fine proportions, mus-
cular figure, deep chest, and short neck, strong haunches,
Hat legs, small head, broad forehead, delicate ears, quick
eye, small feet, and black mane and tail. Such a picture
would inspire a poet, whose genius could then depict his
worth and describe his endurances of toil, hunger, thirst,
heat and cold, and the dangers and sufferings through
which he passed. He would dilate upon his sagacity and
affection, and his invariable response through the long
night marches and days of battle.”

Not so many years after Miss McCalley saw Trav-
eller on that occasion, he was to step on a nail and die of
lockjaw. For days, he lay on a feather bed in his stable,

[ 16 ]

 

———

while Gen. Custis Lee and others gathered around him.
After he had gone the way of his master, who preceded
him by only a brief period, he was placed in a wooden
box and buried in a ravine behind the college.

Robert McCalley, his sister recalls, did not remain
long after dinner. He and Agnes Lee went off together
to some social function that was held in Lexington that
afternoon.

Miss Kate was entertained by Custis, who drove her
out to view General Jackson’s tomb on a hill at one end
of the town. Upon their return, she prepared to leave.

“It was then General Lee came out to me with the
prayer book,” she related. “But I couldn’t keep back my
desire for that picture on the wall in the bedroom. It was
taken on Decoration Day, and showed the general stand-
ing with his hand on Jackson's tomb, as you can see.

“I had just come from the grave, so there was all
the more reason why I should want it.”

The photograph once had a narrow escape from de-
struction. The McCalley home caught afire, and the pic-
ture was badly smoked at its base before it was rescued.

Miss Kate already has made up her mind as to what
is to become of this likeness of General Lee.

“T’ll probably give it to the U. D. C. when I die,”
she said. “I want it to be kept in a safe place always.
You know, General Lee himself told me not to destroy it.”

 

Carter Joins Associated Press

Ricuarp P. Carter, 1929, managing editor of The
Alumni Magazine for the past two years, has been grant-
ed a leave of absence by the University and joined
the staff of the Associated Press in New York City
May 4.

Mr. Carter, who came to Washington and Lee in
1934 from the Greensboro (N. C.) Daily News, has been
a member of the journalism faculty and director of the
W. & L. News Bureau, in charge of all academic and
sports publicity at the University. He formerly was on
the staff of the Richmond, Va., Times-Dispatch, and last
summer was state capitol reporter in the Richmond bu-
reau of the Associated Press.

Two visiting newspapermen accepted invitations to
give lectures in journalism at Washington and Lee dur-
ing Mr. Carter’s absence in May. They are W. C. Stouf-
fer, managing editor of the Roanoke, Va., W orld-News,
and Charles H. Carson, advertising director of the Roa-
noke World-News and the Roanoke Times. Their lec-
tures were for some of Mr. Carter’s classes in May un-
der the supervision of O. W. Riegel, director of jour-
nalism at Washington and Lee—Cy Younc.

‘from

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Heads Florida Bar Association

Lewis TwyMAN, Washington and Lee alumnus, was
elected president of the Florida Bar Association at its
annual convention in Havana.

A member of the law firm of Twyman and Mc-
Carthy in Miami, Mr.
Twyman was one of
three men appointed
by the state bar asso-
ciation to defend Giu-
seppe Zangara, who
shot and killed Mayor
Anton Cermak of Chi-
cago in February of
1933. He was former-
ly president of the
Dade County Bar as-
sociation.

He was graduated
the academic
school at Washing-
ton and Lee in 1913,
taught a year, and re-
turned to the law
school in 1914, re-
ceiving his LL. B. in
1916.

The new presi-
dent of the association is a native of Fincastle, Va.,
where he received his elementary education. He attended
Greenbrier Presbyterial School in Lewisburg, W. Va.,
before coming to Washington and Lee in 1909. He is a
member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, Phi Delta Phi
legal fraternity, and White Friars, honorary sophomore
society. He was also secretary of the senior law class
of 1916.

 

Lewis Twyman, 1913

 

A Map Made by Lee

A pHoTosTaTtic copy of an old map made by Robert
FE. Lee in 1837, when he was a lieutenant of engineers
in the United States Army, has been presented to the
University by H. G. McCormick, a native of Rockbridge
county.

Mr. McCormick is now senior consulting engineer of
the Federal improvement projects on the upper Miss-
issippi. Lee’s map was included in a group of plans and
specifications which McCormick sent to Greenlee Letcher
of Lexington, copies of which are to be sent to the en-
gineering departments of Washington and Lee and Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Opportunities in Journalism

By O. W. RIEGEL
Director of Journalism at Washington and Lee

THE FIELD OF journalism embraces two major kinds
of activity, cultural and vocational. As a cultural sub-
ject, journalism deals with the instrumentalities by which
information and opinion are gathered and purveyed, and
the relation of these instrumentalities to law, govern-
ment, economics, science, and the control of public opin-
ion; this phase of journalism falls clearly in the field of
the social sciences. The brief survey which follows will
be devoted only to the second, or vocational, aspect of
the field.

Vocational opportunities in journalism include the
daily newspaper (editorial), news agencies and syndi-
cates, the community newspaper, the business press, the
agricultural press, the religious press, the labor press,
the magazine, photography and art, advertising, circula-
tion, publicity, free lance writing, and radio journalism.
The close association in the public mind of journalism
with reportorial activity on a daily newspaper is largely
due to the fact that editorial service is the customary
training school for men who later branch out into more
specialized departments of the publishing field.

I have noted a remarkable improvement in the num-
ber of opportunities for men in the field of journalism
within the last year. Whereas two and three years ago
jobs were scarce and hard to get, this year I have re-
ceived requests for men far in excess of the number of
graduates available to take the positions. Whether this
demand is permanent remains to be seen, but it is safe
to predict that conditions in the publishing field will con-
tinue to improve for the next twelve months.

A review of the positions now held by men who left
Washington and Lee within the past year may help to
shed light on vocational opportunities for graduates in
journalism. Two of these men are em-
ployed by the Associated Press, one is
on the staff of the International News
Service in Paris, France, one is in an
advertising agency in New York, one is
on the editorial staff of a Virginia daily
newspaper, one is editor of a Virginia
weekly, one is on the staff of a New
York morning newspaper, and one is on
the staff of a Delaware daily.

A steady improvement has been noted
within the past few years both in the
quality of men going into journalistic
pursuits and in remuneration and condi-
tions of work. This improvement has

 

been helped by several factors. One is the increasing
complexity of public of public affairs, which requires qa
higher type of journalistic worker. Another is the steady
infiltration into newspaper offices of college men dis-
ciplined in background subjects as well as in their special
field of journalism. Still another factor is the rapid pro-
fessionalizing of journalism by Sigma Delta Chi, the
American Newspaper Guild, publishers‘ organizations,
schools and departments of journalism, and other groups
which are seeking to bar journalistic vocations against
persons who are incompetent. A comparison of a typical
newspaper personnel now with one of twenty years ago
will indicate how far journalism has progressed along
the road to the kind of professionalism which has been
achieved by the medical profession, and, to a lesser de-
gree, by the legal profession.

In brief, publishing enterprises are in an unusually
favorable position to profit by any general improvement
in business, and this improvement will distinctly operate
to the advantage of capable young men who, either by
taste or special talent, are drawn to the vocation of jour-
nalism. —Reprinted from The Ring-tum Phi

 

L. R. Holmes Honored

I,.. R. Hotmegs, class of 1901, resident manager of
Furness, Withy & Co., Ltd., at Philadelphia and one of
the Port’s most prominent figures in the movement for
greater overseas trade via the Delaware river, was elect-
ed president of the Philadelphia Marine Club February
17, last, when the newly elected Board of Governors of
the Club met for reorganization in the Bellevue-Stratford.

In the selection of Mr. Holmes to direct its activities
for the next twelve months the Marine Club singled out
from among its long list of prominent members active
in maritime affairs of Philadelphia,, one who has been
outstanding and persistent in his efforts to advance the
foreign commerce of the Port. As rep-
resentative of a company whose loyalty
to Philadelphia over a long period of
years has occasioned frequent praise and
gratification from shippers and Port
leaders he managed through his own per-
sistence alone and his loyalty to Phila-
delphia to maintain these services in
times when cargo offerings were such as
to require much less than Furness was
generously giving in the way of steam-
ship services. Particularly was this so
during the past several years of world-
wide depression during which steamship
lines were hard put, so to speak, to make

 

c~se
s
a}
eal
*

*,

°
a.
ae :
7
%.
~
~
i;

>} &, y wy a
— w, ; z
es a

A ak
a) oa,

S - a ,
Gy. ‘e p

‘
~
aa

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ends meet. Steamship services lessened and continued to
be eliminated in many branches of trade, rumors persisted
of curtailment in every service. Furness, Withy & Co., no
different from others in their losses, maintained ade-
quate services at Philadelphia throughout the whole of
the depression, ships continued regularly calling and de-
parting when cargo offerings were hardly sufficient to
meet crews’ wages. Mr. Holmes’ interest in Philadel-
phia had much to do with this and is mentioned in this
instance to register the fact”
that the Marine Club of
Philadelphia and the Port
both have profited in his se-
lection to head the former.

In keeping with his in-
terest in foreign trade Mr.
Holmes is likewise active
in all affairs to promote the
welfare of Philadelphia
generally. In matters deal-
ing with the deepening and
widening of channel ap-
proaches to Philadelphia
he is active as a member of
the Joint Executive Com-
mittee for the Improve-
ment of the Harbor, Dela-
ware and Schuylkill rivers.
He is a director of the
Maritime Exchange and
also the Commercial Ex-
change of Philadelphia. As
president of the Marine
Club it is expected he will
continue and even increase
the activities of this very
distinctive Philadelphia ma-
rine Organization. In this
direction he will have the
co-operation and support
of a Board of Directors all
prominent in Philadelphia port affairs consisting of the
following: J. S. W. Holton, president of the Sterling
Coal Company; George Junkin, president Wilson Line;
J. O. Hackenberg, general manager Pennsylvania-Read-
ing Shore Lines; George E. Bartol, Jr., president Phil-
adelphia Bourse; D. F. White, resident manager Cunard
White Star, Ltd.; Nathan Hayward, president American
Dredging Co.; Walter T. Roach, and John J. Egan —
Commerce & Industry.

 

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., is in tle retail sales division,
Standard Oil Company of Louisiana, Little Rock, Ark.

 

Gaylord J. Stone, 1913

A Success Story in Flour

SOME MONTHS ago a modestly filled-in “data blank’”’
came to the alumni office. It was accompanied by a few
clippings, also modest.

The subject was Gaylord Joseph Stone of Fort
Worth, Texas, class of 1913, and modest though the
information is, it tells the story of an alumnus who has
found success in a business his family followed.

Gaylord J. Stone: is the
founder and president of
the Universal Mills at Fort
Worth, and has been called
“one of the most dynamic
and progressive figures in
the flour milling industry
in Texas.” He entered the
milling business soon after
leaving college, and = in
1920, after taking up resi-
dence in the Lone Star
state, organized the firm of
Stone & McKenna at Wax-
ahachie. The _ business,
however, was destroyed by
fire and in 1921 he moved
to Fort Worth to organ-
ize the Universal Feed
Mills. In 1929, according
to information received at
the alumni office, he start-
ed building his _ present
2,000-barrel plant and made
the first shipment of flour
in 1930.

When asked for more
information about himself,
Mr. Stone just sent along
the picture reproduced with
this article and overlooked
the request for data. So we
take this story from clippings about his accomplish-
ments: He was born in Wytheville, Va., in 1889. His
father and grandfather both were in the milling business.
He was a succesful Maryland dairyman for eight years
before going to Texas in 1920. ;

The Universal Mills plant operates under Mr. Stone’s
supervision a poultry experimental farm, one of the most
complete and modern establishments of its kind in the
United States. Experiments with poultry feed are car-
ried on at the farm, the only such farm operated by a
southern feed mill.

‘He is married and has three children.

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“Orchids”

THE following letter was written to Dr. J. W. Claudy.
It speaks for itself, expressing the sentiments of a loyal
alumnus :

The Alumni Magazine, January-February, 1936, ar-
rived, with a request for “brickbats or orchids” together
with a check for a new subscription. Why should I, after
forty-two years absence from the campus, subscribe to
this magazine ?

As I read the January issue I found that it took me
out of my local surroundings and wafted me back to
Lexington in the Valley of Virginia where I had spent
the happiest days of my life. | wandered over the town
and about the campus again with my old friends and
ended up with Miss Annie White who had given me so
many cheerful moments and sound advice in my school
days. | knew her before the Fancy Dress days. Some

day she will have a crown for the good she has done on -

the University campus.

Such a return to Lexington with each new issue of
The Alumni Magazine is worth $2.50, and so here is
my check.

James N. VEECH, Louisville, Ky., Class of 1894

It is with genuine regret that due to the pressure of
duties at this season particularly incumbent I will be un-
able to attend the luncheon of the Washington and Lee
alumni.

I was pleased, however, to receive this invitation
from you and to receive in my mail the same day a greet-
ing card from my Alma Mater. These events conspired
in a very delightful way to recall of days gone by; of
faces dimly seen through a mist of time; of long white
colonnades and of fragrance of lilac and dogwood after
the rain.

I have always felt, and now more strongly than ever,
that attendance at Washington and Lee does something,
somehow, to a man—something of the spirit, indefinable,
unique, and eternal. I do not believe that I am alone in
this thought; indeed it is something that should serve
now and in the future to weld a particularly loyal and
active alumni association. During these times of rumors
of wars, of political strife and economic depression it is
more important than ever to cling to our loyalties and to
serve those institutions which are good and which must
endure. After our families and church our Alma Mater
should come next. I believe that it really does—only it
is up to us to express this somehow.

This spirit, I think, is the highest degree Washing-
ton and Lee confers upon her sons and, in turn, furnishes
her with richest endowment.

H. T. Gararp, M.D., Class of 1922

[ 20 ]

  
  

«
oO —— 4

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

JAMEs BriAN BELL, 1911, who has been chief of b Zi
reau for the Associated Press at Los Angeles, has been |
made news editor of the western division of the Asso-—
ciated Press, with headquarters in San Francisco, Calif. |

 

CLaupbE TAVARRE, 1933, is in northern Peru, mak- ‘
ing a revision of one of the Singer Sewing Machine
Company’s agencies. ie.

 

sae

GitmorE N. Nunn, 1931, of Pampa, Texas, and his
father, Lindsay Nunn, of Amarillo, Texas, recently De-
came owners of The Lexington (Ky.) Herald. The elde ap
Nunn will become president of the new company, and —
Gilmore will be publisher and general manager. a

a
eed

 

Carteton E. Jewerr, 1921, former Councilman of |
the city of Richmond, Va., was elected judge of Police e:
Court, Part II, over his only opponent, Magistrate Er-
nest B. Bass, at a joint meeting of the Richmond City Fs
Council on April 3.

In 1928 he was elected a member of the Com
Council and served on that body for six years, being one
of the youngest members ever to head a committee as"
chairman. He is now 39 years old, and lives at 4320 Fou
est Hill Avenue, Richmond, Va. :

‘e
Jia

 

J. Rosert Martin, Jr., 1930, widely known member
of the Greenville bar announced his candidacy for soli-
citor of the thirteenth judicial circuit consisting of Green s
ville and Pickens counties, South Carolina. |

The position, held by Mr. Martin’s father from 1916
to 1920, will be filled in the Democratic primary to be”
held in August.

Mr. Martin is a native of Greenville, his father having
for many years been a member of the Greenville bar.

 

“Wrr’s Enp,” an unusual book which attempts to re-_
vive interest in the old game of solving charades was_
published on May 10 by Fortuny’s. It was written by
Charles Page Robinson, of the class of 1910. Robinson’s —
home is in Pittsburgh, Pa., where he is president of the —
Business Service Company. 4

 

Dr. L. J. Desa, of the class of 1906, professor of |
chemistry at the university, has written a textbook for.
the teaching of Organic Chemistry. He has been work-
ing on it for twelve years and has been teaching it from
mimeographed sheets for ten years. It is to be published
by the McGraw-Hill Company during the summer. |

Dr. Desha is collaborating at present with Dr. L.
Farinholt on a laboratory manual to use with his text.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Spring Sports at Washington and Lee

By RicHArp POWELL CARTER

SHALL START this column, but I shall not finish it.

For two years now you've read these sports re-

views, perhaps sometimes written from a biased
viewpoint, but always intended to give you the exact
situation regarding results and prospects.

But now I’m turning the job over to someone else
for a while, and in the meantime I'll get a little more ink
on my hands . . . back in newspaper work.

It’s too early now to say much about what has hap-
pened in spring sports, except to tell you that the Gen-
erals have found the going harder on the diamond this
year, due chiefly to injuries and the lack of an exper-
ienced catcher.

The date this is written is May 1, and that’s too early
to do more than skim the surface. What’s a column for
if it isn’t to give you all the news about sports at the
University ? So I’ll skim the surface, then turn it over to
William B. Bagbey, who'll be a junior next year, and
who has been giving the Washington and Lee News Bu-
reau some fine help both in sports.and academic news
as student assistant.

Mike Tomlin, who promised to develop into one of
the Generals’ best catchers, injured a knee early in the
season and has been out almost all games. Preston Moore,
an outfielder, volunteered to try his luck behind the
plate, and although he won’t make a catcher, he has
tried mighty hard to take the offerings of Emerson Dick-
man and Joe Pette, ace hurlers. He deserves credit for
standing up under all the strain of playing a position he
never wanted to play.

In golf, the Generals have been hitting them long and
straight under the coaching of Cy Twombly. Right now
they look like certain conference champions.

In tennis, the going has been tough, but there was
no weather that permitted practice for a hard schedule
before actual competition began.

In track, the Generals have bowed in every meet. But
some of the thin clads under Coach Forrest Fletcher
have turned in fine individual performances. Outstand-
ing, perhaps, is sophomore Jim Rogers, who looks like
one of the best hurdlers Washington and Lee has seen
in many a day. He did the 120 highs in 15.1 against
Duke university on Wilson field.

That’s about all I can say, so I'll ask Mr. Bagbey to
take it up here and give you a last minute account of

spring sports. It’s been fun writing this chatter, and I
hope you’ve enjoyed it. See you again.

Now for Mr. Bagbey: ;

Picking up where Mr. Carter left off, we are able to
give you a complete summary of the Generals’ season in
spring sports, having all the scores except one tennis
match which remains to be played.

Washington and Lee dropped its conference base-
ball crown gained last year, being unable to get started
after losing catcher Mike ‘Tomlin in midseason. The
Generals won nine and lost twelve games. Captain Joe
Pette and Emmy Dickman have been looked over by big
league scouts in a number of games this year. The fresh-
man team gives promise of sending some good material
to the varsity next year, having several capable pitchers.

The varsity track squad was unable to win a meet
this year but Jim Rogers, who stepped into Bill Schuhle’s
shoes as a hurdler, won the state and conference titles in
the high hurdles, setting a new state record of 14.8 sec-
onds in the meet at Charlottesville May 9. Schuhle en-
tered the Olympic tryouts held at Duke, May 16, at the
time of the Southern conference meet and qualified in
the 400 meter hurdles with the time of 54.4. The fresh-
man squad lost only one meet, and won the state meet
with Ragon setting a new record for the mile of 4 min-
utes, 37 seconds.

Cy Twombly’s golf team had a very successful sea-
son on the links, losing only one match—to Duke. Duke
also nosed the Generals out in the conference tournament
played on the Hot Springs course.

The tennis team got off to a bad start as the courts
were not in playing condition until late in the spring.
They defeated Lynchburg College here on May 9, 6-1.
This was the first defeat for the Lynchburg netmen in
thirty matches. Incidentally, Bill Tilden will bring part
of his troupe here on May 22 for some exhibition
matches on the Washington and Lee courts.

Now to bring this summary to a close we have a bit
about the crew. The annual race between the Harry Lee
four and the Albert Sidney boat is a Finals tradition.
This year, however, the boys are going to combine the
two crews and row eights against the Asheville School
for Boys at Asheville, N. C., on May 23.

This completes the review of spring sports and we
hope to be able to tell you of the successes of the Gen-
erals in their campaigns on the gridiron next fall.

[ 21 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Dallas

On Apri 18, the North Texas Washington and Lee
alumni association held a meeting in Dallas at the Dallas
Athletic club. Honored guests at the meeting were Judge
I. W. Stephens, class of 1872, and John W. Swayne,
class of 1869, both of whom attended the university when
Robert E. Lee was president. They told interesting inci-
dents of their college life in connection with General Lee.

Judge J. A. Powers, vice-president of the association,
acted as toastmaster and Buck Bailey, president, extended
greetings to the members. Sam Kohen, secretary, was in
charge of the arrangements.

At a meeting of the association held on March 14 in
Fort Worth, a committee was appointed, headed by Pink-
ney Grissom, to gather a resume of the early days at the
university experienced by Stephens and Swayne.

Charleston

WASHINGTON AND LEE university alumni, dining on
April 2, at the Daniel Boone, honored Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, president of the university, and Mr. Harry K.
Young, alumni secretary. Other guests included wives of
alumni and parents of students who are still at the
university.

Mr. Lon Kelly, toastmaster, presented speakers who
were Dr. Gaines, Mr. Young, Mr. Waller Hardy and
Mr. Cyrus Hall, the latter president of the Charleston
alumni chapter.

A committee in charge of the dinner honoring the
visiting officials comprised Mr. John C. Morrison, chair-
man, Mr. Cyrus W. Hall, Mr. Harry V. Campbell, Mr.
Brown Truslow, Mr. Waller G. Hardy, Mr. Jerome
Schwabe and Mr. R. P. DeVan, Jr.

Among those who attended were Mr. and Mrs.
Osman Swartz, Mr and Mrs. Graham Painter, Mr. and
Mrs. Grover C. Worrell, Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus W. Hall,
Mrs. J. A. Preston, Mr. John J. D. Preston, Mr. and
Mrs. Lon Kelly, Mr. Tom Bolen, Mr. and Mrs. Pell
Lewis, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Zerkle, Mr. and Mrs. H.
C. Holden, Mr. Charles Midelburg, Mr. K. E. Hines.

Mr. E. A. Amick, Mr. John Martin, Mr. Walter V.
Ross, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Silverstein, Mr. and Mrs. L. S.
McDaniel, Mr. Wayne Ford, Mr. and Mrs. John C.
Morrison, Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Hansbarger, Mr. and

Mrs. D. Boone Dawson, Mr. and Mrs. H. O. Ruffner,
Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Johnson Wright, Mr. and Mrs. L,. E.
Huffman, Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Capito, Mrs. Betty
N. Homberg, Mrs. Mary Waldo, Mrs. George E. White.

Mr. and Mrs. O. H. Hiserman, Mr. and Mrs. James
C. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Harry V. Campbell, Mr. C. F.
Stuart, Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Kelly, Mr. and Mrs,
Norman §S. Fitzhugh, Mr. and Mrs. John W. Moore,
Mr. and Mrs. Brown Truslow, Mr. and Mrs. George L.
Coyle, Mr. Phil A. Herscher.

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Schwabe, Mr. and Mrs. Waller
C. Hardy, Mr. James Hess, Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Kerns,
Mr. W. B. Watts, Mr. C. A. Wood, Jr., Mr. P. R. Har-
rison, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. M. R. Dodd, Mr. and Mrs. J.
K. Thomas, Mr. and Mrs. R. P. DeVan, Mr. R. P. De-
Van, Jr., Mr. Harrison B. Smith, and others.

Chicago

THE Cuicaco ALUMNI AssocIATION held its third
annual meeting on Friday, May 8. The principal speeker
was Prof. Raymon T. Johnson, of the university law
faculty, who gave a most invigorating speech which was
enthusiastically received. The meeting was presided over
by Edward A. O’Neal, 1898, president.

Following Mr. Johnson’s speech, there were several
impromptu speeches by those gathered around the dinner
table. Henry C. Pohlzon, who has a son in school now,
expressed his pleasure over the fact. Philip P. Page, 1908,
business manager of the Chicago Journal of Commerce,
pledged his support to the group during the coming year.
Elijah Funkhouser, of the class of 1892, the oldest grad
in attendance, spoke of his love for the university and
how in his travels around the world as an engineer he
had found Washington and Lee men located in all im-
portant spots on the globe.

Reuben A. Lewis, 1916, announced the selection of
officers by the nominating committee. The men named
were elected as follows: Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 1913,
president; John A. Culley, 1933, vice-president; and
W. Hatfield Smith, 1928, secretary.

Besides those already mentioned, there were present:
Ben Rawlins, 1930; Al and Bill Symonds, 1933; John W.
Wade, 1930; Clayton Walters, 1923; Burke Williamson,
1926; Clifford M. Peale, 1919; Mike Stone, 1923; Dr.
George Schnath, ex 1932; Wilbur Owen, 1931; Thorn-

[ 22 ]

 

i :
i an ces
RR
ine Fe

crs
44% +e

2
Z
&
*
&

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ton W. Snead, 1907; Flex Seymour, 1908; Howard Dye
Carver, ex 1933; and Bob Dyer, 1934. Fathers of sons
now in school who were in attendance were Charles C.
Welles, Maurice J. Swan, William C. Baker, and Henry
Pohlzon. Byron Crossman, a senior at Morgan Park high
school and a likely prospect for entrance to the university
next fall, was also present.

 

Fourth Year of the Class Agent Plan

Tuer CLass AGENT PLAN isso well understood as it
approaches the close of its fourth year that it needs no
explanation. All of us are convinced that the plan is
sound, simple, and effective. There are many encourag-
ing reactions, and also many things which, from our
point of view, are entirely inexplicable. The outstand-
ing query which emerges is why so many men who have
manifested their interest in, and love for the University,
will not reply to the class agents’ letters.

These are personal, friendly letters from fellow alum-
ni and classmates who are expressing their devotion to
the University by their willingness to take on a job which,
in many cases, involves the writing of hundreds of let-
ters. These letters ask for a response in kind, with or
without a nominal contribution to the Class Fund. The
Alumni Office is at a loss to know how any son of Wash-
ington and Lee can fail to express his willingness to co-
operate by a response to such an appeal.

An encouraging feature of this Fourth Annual Round
of Letters to date is that there are so many letters from
alumni who have not replied in former years, but, coun-
terbalancing this encouragement, is the surprising num-
ber of failures to respond on the part of men who have
responded in the past.

Interesting and amusing side-lights crop up in this
connection—for instance :

“JOCKEYING FOR POSITION”

The following excerpts from letters of two of our
class agents, John J. Davis, 1892, and J. W. Claudy,
1909, will be of interest to many of our readers.

In a letter to the Alumni Secretary, Mr. Davis says:

“There may be some question in your mind as
to why, with all this enthusiasm for others’ dona-
tions, you have received no check from me as yet.
But I am, in the vernacular of Kentucky, jockeying
for position. I want to know just how much money
this man Claudy, of the Class of 1909, is going to
turn in before I play all my cards. I may see his
raise and go him one better. At any rate you watch
out for 1892. If we do not beat 1909 this year, it
will be because there is something wrong.”

Copy of this paragraph was sent to Dr. Claudy who
replied to Mr. Davis:

“T have heard your threat about playing your
cards close to your chest on the matter of contribu-
tions, and I congratulate you on the success of your
efforts to date.

“Tf you want to play poker on this proposition,
why not play stud poker with deuces wild. You
have my best wishes to beat the Class of 1909. How-
ever, I suggest to you that it might be playing against
a ‘cold deck.’ ”’

Mr. Davis comes back:

“T have your letter of the first and am realizing
what a mistake an old man makes when he begins
to brag through his whiskers. Much of your lan-
guage is difficult for me to comprehend, and seems
to consist in the technical terms of some abtruse
science. I gather from it that it is a threat that I am
up against immoral, adverse and unbeatable cir-
cumstances.

“Having thrown my neck out too far, I suppose
I will have little sympathy for what apparently is
animating me, and I promise myself that from now
on I shall not indulge in vainglorious boasting, but
content myself with doing my duty to the best of
my ability ; and I may add that if things do not come
in better for me than they have since I wagged my
tongue, I see little chance of snatching the palm of
victory from 1909. More power to your elbow.”

Have You Replied to Your Class Agent’s Letter?

 

Births

Rospert WINGFIELD POINDEXTER, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Emmett W. Poindexter, born April 18, 1936.

B. J. LamBeErt, 1931, reports the birth of a son, Frank
Hayden Lambert, on February 28, 1936, at Memphis.
Mr. Lambert is engaged in the general merchandise busi-
ness in Holly Grove, Arkansas.

 

Marriages

SAMUEL LAKE CLARK, class of 1933, and Miss Keith
Martin were married April 17, 1936, at Charleston, West
Virginia. Clark is working for the Du Pont organization.

WILLIAM CooKE MULLIGAN, 1932, and Miss Marion
Ruth Beckley were married April 4, 1936, at La Grange,
Illinois.

Epwarp ALMER AMES, JR., class of 1924, and Miss
Elizabeth Johnson Melson were married January 8, 1936,
at Accomac, Virginia.

[ 23: ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

FRANK Stinson Hanna, of the class of 1931, and
Miss Jane Fiquet were married April 4, 1936, at Saint
Joseph, Missouri. Hanna is a member of the Beta Theta
Pi fraternity and was a star basketball player while in
university. He also played baseball.

LEWIs FRANKLIN PowELL, Jr., A. B. 1929, LL. B.
1931, and Miss Josephine Pierce Rucker were married
May 2, 1936, at Richmond, Virginia. Powell was presi-
dent of the student body and manager of the football
team while at the university.

A. CARTER CryMBLE, 1918, and Miss Lucy May Bos-
well were married in April at Petersburg, Virginia. C.
Hagan Minnich, 1924, was best man, and H. G. Peters,
Jr., 1917, and Homer A. Jones, 1917, were groomsmen.
Mr. Crymble holds a position in the engineering depart-
ment of the Tennesee Eastman Corporation, Kingsport,
Tenn., but lives in Bristol, Virginia.

 

In Memoriam

RicHarp W. WaLKer, 1874, member of a disting-
uished Southern family, and presiding judge of the
fifth circuit court of appeals at New Orleans for six-
teen years, died at Huntsville, Alabama, April 10, 1936.

Though retired from active court duties, he frequently
sat with the circuit court at New Orleans when an extra
judge was needed.

Born at Florence, Alabama, he was educated at
Princeton, Washington and Lee and Columbia university.
His family moved to Huntsville when he was nine and
upon completion of his academic study, Walker set up
his law office there.

JupceE CHARLES WALTER SmirTH, A. B. 1877, LL. B.
1879, died recently at Camden, Arkansas. He was 82
years old and had been judge of the thirteenth judicial
district for 30 years.

After attending the public schools of Union county,
Judge Smith entered Washington and Lee university in
1873, traveling to Lexington by stage coach. He was the
oldest living member of the Sigma Chi fraternity in
Arkansas.

EDGAR SYDENSTRICKER, Scientific Director of the
Milbank Memorial Fund, 40 Wall Street, New York,
and Consultant Statistician of the United States Public
Health Service, died on March 19, 1936.

Mr. Sydenstricker was born July 15, 1881, in China,
of missionary parents, Rev. Dr. Absalom and Caroline
Stulting Sydenstricker, both of West Virginia. He came
to the United States in 1896. He was graduated from

Washington and Lee university, receiving his M. A, in
1902. He continued his graduate work at the University
of Chicago and Johns Hopkins university. After leaving
college he was principal of the high school at Onancock,
Va., for three years. In 1905 he became editor of the
Daily Advance, Lynchburg, Va., and soon thereafter also
became a special writer for various newspapers and
magazines.

ALBERT SIDNEY JOHNSTON, 1918, editor of The Ral-
eigh Register, died May 4, 1936 at Beckley, W. Va. He
was. 41 years old.

Mr. Johnson was born at Union (Monroe county)
June 29, 1895, the son of the late Albert Sidney John-
ston, who for 45 years was editor of the Monroe Watch-
man. Upon America’s entrance into the World War, Mr.
Johnston left Washington and Lee to join an ambulance
unit, and served in France throughout the war. He was
decorated with the Croix de Guerre.

Afterward he worked on the Logan Banner and was
for a time city recorder of Beckley. He became editor of
The Raleigh Register in 1921. He served as secretary
to Representative Joe L. Smith for a time after Mr.
Smith’s election in 1928.

 

A Letter to The Literary Digest

Sir: In a recent issue of The Literary Digest there
is an article entitled “Living the Life of a Mole,” which
gives the impression that all coal-mines and miners’
homes are as the one depicted.

One in particular is in direct contrast. It is owned
and operated by the Jewell Ridge Coal Co. in Virginia.

This mine is equipped with modern machinery to
make the men’s tasks a bit easier. The men work in shifts
with humane men in charge, and they all have a chance
to see “daylight’’ at different intervals, probably more
so than the New York subway-workers.

The homes of the miners are built high up above the
mine in clean and healthy air, are neatly painted and have
sufficient ground for gardens.

For recreation the miners have a hall for dances,
parties, and moving-pictures, and the education of the
children is well taken care of.

On a visit to this mine, I imagined I was walking
through the streets of a quiet and prosperous Northern
village—H.R.L,. in The Literary Digest, March 28, 1936.

Editor's Note—The Jewell Ridge Coal Co. is owned
and operated by Mr. George Walker St. Clair, the rector
of the Washington and Lee University Board of Trus-
tees. He is a member of the class of 1890,

[ 24 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1892

Hate Houston, affectionately known as “Uncle
Bud,” is professor of engineering at Washington and

Lee.

Joun M. Woops is a member of the law firm of
Price, Smith and Spilman, with offices in the Kanawha
Banking and Trust Co., Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1894

Lestig M. Croucn is in the active practice of law
in Harrisonville, Mo., representing many banks, insur-
ance companies and general attorneys for Crown Coach
Co., operating over some 400 miles of highway in Mis-
sour! and Arkansas.

A. Lyncn Warp has been in the lumber business
for many years. He is in charge of the Lynchburg
Branch of the Aberdeen Lumber Company of Chicago.
Has a fine family of seven living children and has had
a happy and successful life.

1896

StockTon Hetu TYLER has resumed the practice of
law in Norfolk after serving as chairman of the Vir-
ginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Mr. Tyler’s
record as chairman of this board was an outstanding one.

DEMPSEY WEAVER is a member of the firm of Mc-
Whorter, Weaver & Co., jobbers in hardware and auto-
motive equipment. He lives on Murfreesboro Road,
Nashville, Tenn.

1897

Avery H. REEp is a mining engineer
and geologist located at Marion, Kentucky.

Ben Flournoy is designing postoffices
and other public buildings for the govern-
ment. He lives at 3122 P. Street, N. W.,
Washington.

Hucu S. Wuirs is practicing medicine
in El Paso, Texas.

Davip LEAKE is assistant general so-
licitor of the Chesapeake and Ohio Rail-
way Company. He lives in Richmond, Va.

 

1898

RicHarp W. FLourNoy is chief of the bureau of
citizenship and division of passport control, department
of state, Washington, D. C. He lives at 3122 P. St.,
N. W., Washington. On February 12, 1936, he was
sent to London as Legal Adviser to the American Dele-
gation to the Conference on Naval Limitations, and as
such assisted in drafting of the treaty which was signed
at the Conference and is now before the Senate of the
United States.

EDWARD J. PARRISH is assistant to the freight traf-
fic manager, Seaboard Air Line Railway, Norfolk, Va.

EDWARD WARING WILSON is director of various cor-
porations and is in the general practice of law in Phil-
adelphia. He lives in Rosemont.

1899

CHARLES PHILIP SNYDER is a rear admiral in the
United States Navy. He is commandant at the navy
yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.

BRADEN VAN DEVENTER is a member of the law firm
of Van Deventer & Black, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Va.

RicHARD Roscok PHELPs informs us of the birth of
a grand-son, Dun Harrison Nelson, April 24, 1935.
Mr. Phelps is a minister in London, Ohio.

LEONARD Hopcrs WILLIs, JR., lives at McIntosh,
Fla. He is a dealer in vegetables, fruits and melons.

W. C. Watson lives at 45 Smith St.,
West Haven, Conn.

GRIER RALSTON SMILEy is chief engi-
neer with the Louisville & Nashville rail-
road company, with offices in the Nashville
and Louisville building, Louisville, Ky.

Dr. C. L. KNOwWLEs is with the Dorr
Company, 247 Park Avenue, New York,
New York.

1904

Re McCriure Marrues THompson has
been dean of the school of arts and sciences
at the University of Illinois since 1933.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dewitt Everett Tucker has been in the merchan-
dising and farming business since 1909 at Tucker, Ark.

W. Owen WILSON is in the insurance business at
1113-15 East Main Street, Richmond, Va.

Lyte Moore Morrerr has been in the active min-
istry of the Presbyterian church in the United States
since 1916.

1906

JoHN ENGLEHARDT Scorr is assistant engineer of
the Louisville & Nashville Railway Company, Tenth &
Broadway, Louisville, Ky.

Mark W. SHEAFE, JR., is practicing law in Water-
town, South Dakota. In a letter to his class agent he
says—This leads up to a thought that 1936 marks 30
years since we graduated, separated, and embarked upon
the sea of life, and I feel that we owe it not only to our-
selves but to each other and to our alma mater, that we
have a real class reunion in June, 1936. I am willing to
do my part towards the reunion and barring something
unforeseen, will be present. However, I feel that I am
too far distant to take the initiative, and to that end it
seems to me that you or someone else near Lexington,
who is more closely in touch with the fellows and the
activities of the University, should sponsor this reunion
and bring it to a successful conclusion.”

R. “Buck” SPINDLE is a police justice in Norfolk,
Va., with offices in the Law building.

KELLy TRIMBLE is with the United States Geograph-
ical Survey, Washington, D. C.

Stockton G. TuRNBULL lives at 10 Hillcrest Road,
Arlington, N. J.

GrorcE W. P. Wuip is a lawyer, with offices at 723
Munsey building, Baltimore, Md.

Isaac S. WAMPLER is superintendent of the Tenn-
essee School for the Blind, at Nashville, Tenn.

1907

W. K. Ramsey is connected with the International
Boundary Commission in the capacity of land agent,
handling the acquisition of the right-of-way required in
connection with a Rio Grande project.

JosHuA Mercer Sapp has been practicing law in
Panama City, Fla. He served as a member of the Flor-
ida legislature for the sessions of 1931 and 1933.

1908

JoseEpH PucH NorRFLEET, commander, United States
Navy, retired, now lives at 633 5th St., Lakewood, N. J.

JAmEs M. O’BRIEN is a member of the law firm of
O’Brien & Dundas, 817 S. Western Ave., Los Ange-
les, Calif.

EARLE K. Paxton is associate professor of math-
ematics at Washington and Lee.

PuHILip P. PAGE is with the Chicago Journal of Com-
merce, 12 East Grand Avenue, Chicago, III.

ELMER W. Some_nrs is practicing law in Accomac, Va.

ABRAM PENN STAPLEs has been attorney general of
Virginia since 1934.

Henry Martyn Wuairze is the proprietor of Henry
White & Company, investment bankers, Fidelity build-
ing, Baltimore, Md.

Joun P. WILL is principal of the high school at
Woodstock, Va.

1909

J. P. IRwin is with Arthur G, McKee & Co., engi-
neers and contractors, Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

Morton LAZARUS is in the ice cream business—‘“the
Bes-Cone Co., manufacturers of Quality Ice Cream,
Baltimore, Md.”

Jorz LyKkEs is a member of the firm of Lykes Bro-
thers, Shippers, of 17 Battery Place, New York.

1910

Hucu R. HAwTuorne lives at 502 Park Avenue,
New York, N. Y.

Wyatt C. Heprick has been developing a four mil-
lion dollar narcotic farm, as part of the relief program
for the government, but will return to his home in Fort
Worth, Texas, shortly. His firm is Wyatt C. Hedrick,
Inc., architects, First National Bank Building, Fort
Worth, Texas.

1911

Everett B. LEMON is a member of the firm of Wen-
del-Lemon, Inc., 606 MacBain building, Roanoke, Va.

JoHN Eppes MartIn is superintendent of city schools
in Suffolk, Va.

Louis DrEmMpsEY WILMoRE has been continuously
engaged in his profession of shorthand reporting since
leaving school. Official reporter in circuit courts of Mer-
cer and Wyoming counties, W. Va., and criminal court
of Mercer county, W. Va., and United States District
Court of Bluefield, W. Va.

R. E. LayMAN lives in Swope, Va.

[ 26 ]

 

ihe P%

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

WILLIAM KEYSER PRICE is a banker at New Mar-
tinsville, Va.

LUTHER Scorr is practicing law in Bluefield, W. Va.

Ev1jAH RINEHART has been for twenty years in the
maintenance of ways department of the Baltimore &
Ohio Railway. He lives in Relay, Md.

Rosert ‘T. RussELL is practicing law in Rustburg,
Virginia.

Rosert L. THomas has been a salesman for Lucas
Brothers, printers and office equipment, for the last
cighteen years. He is active in Masonic work. He lives
at 4109 Boarman Ave., Baltimore, Md.

JouN THomas Watson lives at 2515 Bayshore Bou-
levard, Tampa, Fla. He is an attorney-at-law with of-
fices in the Peninsular Telephone building.

GrorcE MunsEy WATSON is in the
mercantile business at Swan Quarter,
North Carolina. J

f

1912

CHARLES LEE ORDEMAN is secre-
tary-treasurer of the Mead Sales Com-
pany, pulp and paper firm. His address
is 230 Park Avenue, New York City. |
He is married and has two sons, Rich-
ard Lee and John Talbot.

JaAmMEs CosurN PICKENS is with
the Southern Railway Company, 15th
and K Sts., N. W.,. Washington, D. id

Otrnuo SnurForD is doing public accounting work,
with offices on the seventh floor, Manhattan Bank build-
ing, Memphis, Tenn.

The Rev. GEorcE W. STapLes is a Methodist min-
ister living in Ashland, Va.

JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR., has been with the United
States Department of Commerce since 1925; is now
commercial attache to the American Embassy, London,
England. He was in this country during December and
and January, at his home in Vaiden, Miss.

Witiiam L. WesstTEr has charge of the Ford deal-
ership at 1044 State street, Schenectady, N. Y.

Crayton E. WiitiAMs, professor of law at Wash-
ington and Lee, has recently edited the third edition of
Burks on Pleading and Practice, in collaboration with
Martin P. Burks, III.

 

Water HickMAN Woop is county relief adminis-
trator of Hardy county. He lives in Moorefield, W. Va.

1913

Epwarp F. Snerrey, II, is with the Home Owners’
Loan Corporation in Washington, D. C.

GAYLORD STONE is president of Universal Mills, Fort
Worth, Texas.

HersBert TAYLOR is with the A. M. Pullen Co., C.
P. A., State Planters Bank building, Richmond, Va.

Guy MARMADUKE WaArbD is assistant superintendent
of the Batesville high school, Batesville, Ark.

CHARLES HERBERT TOMPKINS is a member of the
law firm of McRae & Tompkins, Orescott, Ark.

WiLtiAM TayLor THom, JR., was advanced to a
full professorship in the geology de-
partment at Princeton in June, 1935.

WALTER LowrIE TUCKER is farm-
ing at Sandidges, Virginia.

IRwIn Louris Vicror is with the
Hollywood Development Company, at
621 Western Ave., Los Angeles, Calif.

WiLt1AM ENnocu Warp has prac-
ticed law at Starkville, Miss., contin-
uously since his graduation from
Washington and Lee.

Kyte MENEFEE WEEKS is junior
member of the firm of Profitt &
Weeks, attorneys, Floyd, Va.

Harry A. WILLIAMS, JR., is in the real estate bus-
iness at 151 East 50th Street, New York.

ApRIAN WILLIAMSON is practicing law in Monti-
cello, Ark. He is interested in amateur astronomical ob-
servation and study, has a small observatory which he
designed, and is a member of the American Association
of Variable Star Observers. |

Bos Wirt is with the Builders Supply Co., San An-
tonio, Texas.

WittiAmM H. WomMeELporF is a farmer at Lexing-
ton, Va.

CHARLES Howarp ZERKLE is cashier of the Bank
of St. Albans, W. Va.

1914

Josuua C. Hupson is practicing law in Norfolk,
Va., with offices in the Law building.

[ 27 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ALEX M. Hitz is practicing law, with offices in the
Citizens & Southern National Bank building, Atlanta,
Georgia.

1915

Woopson P. HoucGnrTon is a member of the law firm
of Ellis, Ferguson and Houghton, Southern building,
Washington, D. C.

JAMES LAWRENCE HOwERTON is superintendent of
organic chemicals production, Swann Chemical Com-
pany, Anniston, Ala.

PRESTON JACKSON has made several trips to Vir-
ginia in the last few years. He is with the Penn Mutual
Life Insurance Company, 50 Church St., New York City.

1916

D. EASLEY WAGGONER is vice-president and general
manager of the United Fidelity Life Insurance Co., of
Dallas, Texas.

LorENTz T. WHITE is a wholesale automotive job-
ber, Raleigh, N. C.

GrorcE H. WILLIAMSON is practicing law in Charles-
ton, W. Va. His offices are in the Capitol City Bank
building.

C. EpMUND WokrTHh is a member of the Florida state
legislature. His address is 215 Madison Ave., Tampa,
Florida.

1917

EDWARD STEINER SMITH is with the Primrose Pe-
troleum Co., Dallas, Texas. He married Elsie Little,
and they have two children, Charles Edward, and Joan
Elaine.

Joun L&stig (LUKE) WILLIAMs is with the Bristol
Co., of Waterbury, Conn. He is New England district
manager in charge of the Boston branch.

THEODORE C. Warers attended Harvard law school
in 1917 and 1918; graduated from University of Mary-
land law school in 1921. He married Marguerite C.
Cleaveland.

T. Preston WHITE is practicing medicine in Char-
lotte, N. C. He married Henrietta Tucker; they have
two children, James Jones and Rosa Tucker.

1918

WILLIAM FREDERICK SutTron, or “Larry” as his
classmates knew him, is general agent for the Preferred
Accident Insurance Company of New York, with offices
at 406 American building, Baltimore, Md. Larry says

that after seventeen years his memory of his social and
athletic activities at Washington and Lee have grown a
little hazy, but he does have a “dim recollection of fresh-
man and sophomore foot, base and pushball, but try as
I may, I cannot recall anything to brag about, so will
skip that.’’ He also remembers his initiation into White
Friars, when he and Pat Collins were to sing a duet as
part of the show. He says that in spite of the valiant
struggles of Eutha Young, who was assisting with the
production, to get them started and stopped at the same
time, they were finally relegated to the back seat, where
they could be seen but not heard.

BENJAMIN FLourNoy TILLAR is president of the

W. T. Tillar Co., dealers in hardware, at Emporia, Va.
He married Miss Mabel Frances Cato, and they have
two children, the older being slated for Washington and
Lee in 1940.

ALEX $. WATKINS is in the building materials and
paint business in Henderson, N. C. He married Miss
Lucy B. Adams, and they have a son, five, and a daugh-
ter, two years old.

1919

THomAS WEstT GILLIAM is cashier of the Lynchburg

National Bank and Trust Co., of Lynchburg, Va.; sec-
retary-treasurer, Lynchburg Clearing House Associa-
tion; vice-president, Virginia Baptist Hospital. Has
two children, Truett and Jessica. Tom is active in alumni
work and is now president of our Lynchburg Association.

Epwarp LEE GLADNEY (Boots), P. O. Box 547,
Bastrop, La. Took his law degree from Tulane in 1921;
studied at Columbia University; practiced law in New
Orleans from 1922 to 1926, and at Bastrop since 1926.
He has a son, Edward Lee, III. We were glad to have
a short visit from Boots this spring. He has changed
very little—looks as though he could still run a good
quarter-mile.

Mason Monvravi__E Hurp, rector, Church of the
Messiah (Episcopal), Gonzales, Texas. Is married and
has a son, Mason Aaron, born January 27, 1932.

Rogsert V. Icnico, Major, United States Army Air
Corps, Duncan Field, San Antonio, Texas. Married Ar-
lene Davidson, of Lexington, Va., and has three chil-
dren, Vivian G., Vincent A., and Robert V., Jr. Appar-
ently Bob handles a plane like he played tackle, so he
must be the top.

JoHN ARNOLD JOHNSTON accepted a position with
the Federal Reserve Bank after leaving Washington and
Lee, and is now assistant cashier, Baltimore branch, Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond, Baltimore, Md. Mar-
ried Esther LeMoine.

[ 28 ]

’

ne tt ee thing:

 

< ac RE Ol ds ins ahlele a

aie Be ya

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

FRANK Hays Jacops, JR., took his law work at Har-
vard. Member of law firm of Jacobs and Cameron with
offices in the Close-Jacobs building, Bel Air, Md. No
wife—no children. Jake, the next time we hear from you
we are expecting to list you among the married men.

Harry E. HAnpteEy, of 18 Idlewood Road, White
Plains, N. Y., has been assistant director, Division of
Public Health, The Commonwealth Fund, since 1932.
He took his M. D. at Johns Hopkins in 1923.

1920

GEORGE STEPHEN MUELLER is in the Bell Telephone
laboratories, 463 West Street, New York City. George
married Miss Emma Wiegand, and they have one daugh-
ter. He tells us he worked for James A. Lee, 1917, at one
time. George keeps in close touch with the New York
alumni and is always interested in see-
ing Washington and Lee teams in his
section.

DANIEL THOMAS ORDEMAN is
teaching English at the Oreton State
College at Corvallis, Oregon. Tom
took his M. A. at Washington and Lee
and his Ph. D. at the University of
Maryland. He married Anna Mae
Lafferty, and they have a boy and a
girl. He hopes to send young Dan
Ordeman to Washington and Lee if he
can move closer to Lexington by 1950.

AG

tS

L
i au
, j oN AVY
Foe WEEE Ze Rie ,
$id ;

SS
Erin’
antl
=

‘
Vera!
\ !
S
‘A 4]
= a
‘oon e.

wit

\
~
¢

}

y

Harry Lynn Moore is located at
Blacksburg, Va. After serving two
years in the Washington and Lee Ambulance unit he
took his B.S. degree at V. P. I. and his M.S. at Cor-
nell. He has been head of the Poultry department at
V. P. I. for the past seven years. He married Miss
Frances Garber, and they have three children.

WILLIAM PauL Parsons is living at Wytheville,
Va., where he has been commonwealth’s attorney for
the past eight years.

Dr. Witt Rowan Pryor is practicing medicine with
offices at 1120 Heyburn building, Louisville, Ky. He
married Miss Inez Manor of New York, and they have
two children, Inez and William. After leaving Lexing-
ton, Will studied medicine in Louisville and took grad-
uate work in Brooklyn, N. Y., at the University of
Vienna, and at Klagenfurt, Austria.

W. F. (Britt) PARKER has offices in the Ingraham
building in Miami, Fla., where he practices law, having
taken his law degree at North Carolina after leaving

 

Lexington. He married Regina Seale, and they have two
boys, Bill, Jr., and Bobby.

1921

FITZGERALD FLourNoy, associate professor of Eng-
lish at the University, will receive the Ph. D. degree at
Yale in June. His thesis is entitled, “Nicholas Breton:
Biography, Bibliography and Census.”

JoHN BELL is associated with the firm of Knight,
Thompson and Turner, attorneys-at-law, Tampa, Fla.

DEAN OWENS is a member of the firm of Maddox,
Matthews & Owens, attorneys-at-law, Rome, Ga.

BEN PARTLOw is teaching in the Bedford high school,
Bedford, Va.

‘R. PAUL SANFORD is practicing law in Danville, Va.

Puivip G. Harris lives at the Zo-
bel Apartments, Spartanburg, S. C.

D. BoonE Dawson is mayor of the
city of Charleston, W. Va.

J. M. DarpvEN, Jr., is with Sands
& Co., Roanoke, Virginia.

J. L. SHAVER is practicing law un-
der the firm name of Ogan, Shaver and
Ogan in Wynne, Ark. He is a member
of the state senate of Arkansas.

WititiAM M. Tuck is a member
of the law firm of Martin & Tuck,
Halifax and South Boston, Va.

WILLIAM B. Wispom is in the advertising business
at 715 American Bank building, New Orleans, La. He
married Mary Freeman and they have two daughters,
Betty and Adelaide.

S. A. F. Wacner received his B. Ph. and B. S. from
Emory University, class of 1921. He married Vivian
Brady of Clifton Forge, Va.

WILLIAM B. PATTERSON is living in China; address,
care Southern Presbyterian Mission, Tenghsien, Shan-
tung, China.

FRANK MANN POLLOCK is adjuster, Fire Companies’
Adjustment Bureau, Bluefield, W. Va.

1922

Wy.iz W. Tay tor is with the Continental Baking
Company, Richmond, Va. He married Mary Elizabeth
Cook. They have two sons, Wylie W., Jr., and Fred C.,

[ 29 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ricwarp (Dick) E. SHERRILL has been teaching
geology at the University of Pittsburgh for the past
seven years. He married Mary Lucille Taylor, and they
have a son, Donald Taylor Sherrill.

Francis A. SUTHERLAND took his M. D. at the Har-
vard Medical school in 1926. Was instructor in surgery
at Cornell and Yale, and is now entering the practice of
surgery in Margaretville, N. Y. )

Henry TROTTER is in the insurance business in the
Provident building, Chattanooga, Tenn. He married
Charlotte Llewellyn, and they have two children, Pa-
tricia and Margaret.

Witrrep B. WEss has been a member of the faculty
of Augusta Military Academy since 1924. He is also an
orchardist. Lives at Fort Defiance, Va.

Ronert G. YANCEY is in the insurance business at
204-7 Lawyers building, Raleigh, N. C. He married
Margaret Hunter, and they have two children, Robert
Gibbons, Jr., and Margaret Hunter.

1923

J. Mervin Lovevace is practicing law at Suffolk,
Va. He attended the Homecoming football game last fall.

NorFLEET TURNER is vice-president of the First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis, Tenn.

CHARLIE PHILLIPS, who with his wife and baby boy,
Buddy, lived on the campus during his years as a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee, writes that Buddy is now
six feet two, and a student at the University of Rich-
mond, and that his three other children, while not quite
as large, are on the way. Charlie is a real estate broker
in Richmond.

Harris A. Ray is in the bond business at 2401 Russ
building, San Francisco, Calif.

W. K. RurFin is with the Coca Cola company at
Chase City, Va.

Wacter H. Scorr is practicing law in Roanoke, Va.

OcpEN SHROPSHIRE is with Ward, Sterne & Co.,
investment securities, Birmingham, Ala.

GLENN R. Srourr is with the United Hosiery Mills
Corporation in Chattanooga. He says that since 1929 he
has had “two children, two raises and three salary cuts—
but it’s a great life.”

FRANK C. Switzer is general manager of the tele-
phone company at Harrisonburg, Va.

Dorr M. Tucker is secretary to Rush D. Holt, the
young senator from West Virginia.

[ 30 ]

1926

Joun R. VAN BureEN lives at 17 Carey Ave., Hoo-
sick Falls, N. Y.

Francis B. WaTERS is in the Seaboard Bank build-
ing, Norfolk, Va. He married Ethel May Parsons.

James Newton WI t1AMs took his M. D. from the
Medical College of Virginia in 1930; has been on the
faculty of the Medical College of Virginia since 1931.
He married Dorothy Behle.

WiLtiAM BurRKE WILLIAMSON graduated from
Northwestern University Law School with the degree
of J. D., 1930. His address is 39 S. LaSalle St., Chicago.

KENNETH CHAPMAN KiMBROUGH lives in Mem-
phis, Tenn., and is connected with E. C. Denaux, Inc.,
decorators. After receiving his A. B. at Washington and
Lee, he attended the New York School of Fine and Ap-
plied Arts, followed by fourteen months of study in
Paris and Italy.

1927

Cooper TuRNER, JR., is practicing law, 1800 Ex-
change Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

LEGARE WALKER has been in the active practice of
law at Summerville, S. C., since June, 1930. He mar-
ried Susannah Chisolm Dwight.

IsRAEL ERWIN WEINSTEIN is in the mercantile bus-
iness, Lumberton, N. C.

James Cox WILBoURN is practicing law, member of
the firm of Wilbourn, Miller & Wilbourn, offices Citi-
zens Bank building, Meridian, Miss.

CHARLES HARRISON WILSON is a member of the
Virginia legislature, Crewe, Va.

-CHARLES EMERSON WILEY, JR., is with the Equitable
Life Insurance Co., of Iowa in Roanoke, Va.

Rosert T. Fores, JRr., is manager of apartment house
sales for the Thompson-Sterling company, distributors
of electrical equipment.

Norton L. Wtspom is an attorney-at-law. He is
past president of the Washington and Lee alumni associa-
tion of New Orleans, La.

CHarLES MayuuGuH Woop is selling wholesale and
retail automobile supplies at the Five Forks Battery Sta-
tion, Inc., Danville, Va.

Ropert JAMES WILLIAMS, JR., is district sales man-
ager of railroad specialties, with the Birmingham Rail
and Locomotive Co., of Birmingham, Ala.

 

 

a * a de ee 3
rer ier as en aie

’ WE A Ones © > gi

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1928

StuarD A. WurzBurGER is Brooklyn and Queens
salesman for Hercules Cement Company, at 441 Lex-
ington Ave., New York, N. Y.

GRAY EDWIN YEATMAN lives at Batesville, Ark. He
married Frances Fitzhugh.

CHARLES ALBERT STRAHORN is with the division of
examinations, Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.
C. He married Isabel Janet Badly.

EpMUND MARSHALL VANDIVER is working for the
Rome Printing Co., at Rome, Ga.

Davip H. Wice is rabbi of Temple Israel, Omaha,
Nebraska.

BERNARD JOSEPH WAGNER is a part-
ner in the law firm of Kingdon & Wag-
ner, Law and Commerce building, Blue-
field, West Virginia.

1929

BERNARD YOEPP, JR., as been employ-
ed with the Central Hudson Gas and
Electric Corp., Poughkeepsie, N. Y., in
various capacities since leaving school.

GreorGE M. WricutT, Jr., lives at
Great Falls, S. C.

‘BuNNY’ WHITLOCK is with the West
Virginia Pulp and Paper Company, Cov-
ington, Va. He married Emily Owens Luke, and they
have two children, “Pete” and Emily Jane.

FRANK PARKER, JR., is an orchardist at Rose Cliff,
Waynesboro, Va. He married Marion McElroy, and
they have one daughter, Alice.

ARNOLD SCHLOSSBERG is practicing law in New York
City. He married Alice H. Jacobi, and they have one
daughter, Nancy.

J. MILLER SHERWOOD is employed by Sherwood
Bros. Inc., petroleum products. He lives at 205 High-
field Road, Baltimore, Md.

O. Norris SmitxH took his M. D. from the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Medical School in 1933. He is now
at the University of Pennsylvania hospital, Philadelphia.

Joun D. S. STANARD is president of the firm ‘“Ad-
vertising Associates,” 535 Chattanooga Bank building,
Chattanooga, Tenn. He married Mary Esther Bagby.

JAMES WILLIAM TANKARD, JR., graduated in med-
icine from the University of Pennsylvania Medical
School in 1933. His home is at Franktown, Va.

 

SAMUEL JAMES THOMPSON has practiced law in
Rustburg, Va., since 1929. He was a member of the leg-
islature in 1932-33. He married Laura M. Watkins, and

they have a daughter, Betty.

THOMAS PERRIN WRIGHT was professor of English,
Shenandoah College, Dayton, Va., in 1930-33. Is now
teaching English and history in the Great Falls High
school, Great Falls, S. C. He married Ella Gaines Ward-
law.

1930

CHARLES R. VANHorwN attended the University of
Alabama two years; entered service of Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad in 1929. He is now division passenger
agent, Columbus, Ohio.

PacE TREADWAY, JR., is with the
Chase National Bank, 11 Broad St., New
York. He married Margaret Bolling
Lambeth.

Rosy SUTHERLAND took his law de-
gree from the University of Virginia in
1933 and is now engaged in practice at
Pulaski, Va.

GEORGE DouGLAs VERMILYA gradu-
ated in medicine from the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in 1932. Now assistant
resident surgeon in hospital division of
the Medical College of Virginia.

Ep WabpELL took his M. D. from the
University of Virginia. He is resident physician in a
hospital in Farmville, Va.

J. WaLTER WADE lives at 6133 Kenmore Ave., Chi-
cago, Ill.

ALFRED S. WAGNER, JR., is a partner in Munger,
Wagner and Moon, insurance firm, Dallas, Texas.

ROWLAND WALKER received his M. D. from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania in 1934. Is now serving a year
as fellow in the diagnostic clinic at Duke University.

Britt Warp, JR., is practicing law in the Healey
Building, Atlanta, Ga. His partner is Bruce Woodruff,
class of 1916.

HENRY MAHLOoR WEls lives at 324 W. Blount St.,
Pensacola, Fla.

StmMon Z. WENDER is manager of Wender’s Depart-
ment Stores, Woodstock, Va.

CHESTER CEcIL WINE received his B. S. in engineer-
ing from Texas University in 1928. C. P. & L. Co., Di-
vision Auditor, 1931 to present.

[ 31 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

JAMEs M. Countiss is a planter at Elaine, Ark.

STANLEY Forrest HAmpron received his M. D. de-
gree June, 1934, from Washington University, St. Louis,
and has been at the University Hospital of the State
of Iowa since that time. Will be there at least until July
1, 1936, he says. 1

MERLE SvuTER is with the National Electrical Supply
Company, Washington, D. C. His home is in Claren-
don, Va.

1931

Rep SEELEY is with the James Z. Lamb Advertising
Agency, at 2136 Land Title building, Philadelphia, Pa.
He was married June 29 to Sarah Jane Evans.

DAN SHERBY is secretary-treasurer of the Zone Cab
Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio. He married Clementine
Fleshcim.

Kart SMITH is manager of the Anthony Wayne
Hotel, Waynesboro, Pa.

Henry P. STANLEY is with American Airlines in
Nashville, Tenn.

Tuomas Day Succ, JRr., is an attorney-at-law, Fay-
etteville, Tenn.

Don TILLAR went to Georgia Tech for three years
where he received his B.S. degree in mechanical en-
gineering in 1932. Has been distribution engineer for
Virginia Electric and Power Company for the past three
years. He married Bettie Billingsley, and they live in
Fredericksburg, Va.

BILL VENABLE is practicing law at 718 Law building,
Norfolk, Va. He married Margaret Lathrop Moore.

HERBERT OWEN WINSTON is supervisor of R. C. A.
Radiotron Company, Harrison, N. J. He married Evelyn
Virginia Cerveny.

WALTER S. WuURZBURGER is in the insurance business
at 20 Pine street, New York, N. Y.

1932

Dick STILEs is operating a dance orchestra. Next
fall will enter the school of Foreign Service, Georgetown
University.

CHARLES EARL TiLson was married May 24, 1935,
to Helen Flowers. He is freshman football coach and
wrestling coach at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

HavEN WALTON has been working for two years
with the brokerage house of Hemphill, Noyes & Co.,
15 Broad St., New York City.

Le1GH WILLIAMS has been for three years at Au-
gusta Military Academy. Married Grace Baxter Mayo.

CHARLES A. Woop, JR., is practicing law in Charles-
ton, W. Va.

JoHN ZIMMERMAN, Jr., has been with the Chapman
Coated Paper Co., at Hamilton, Ohio, since leaving
Washington and Lee.

WiLiiaM C. (BILL) CAPEL is teaching sociology in
the Georgia State College for Women at Milledgeville.
At the same time he is working on his dissertation for
his doctor’s degree—in fact is probably Dr. Capel at the
present writing. He received his M.A. from Columbia
University in 1933.

1933

RosBeErtT RAGSDALE SMITH, since leaving school, has
been attending the medical school of the University of
Pennsylvania.

GEORGE HENRY STROUSE, JR., is engaged in the gen-
eral practice of law in Norwich, Conn.

CHARLIE SUTER is with the American Newscasting
Association in Washington. He married Peggie Fitch
and lives at Apartment 44, 1465 Columbia Road, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

“CHicK” VERMILYA is in the Medical School at the
Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Va.

Cart (Happy) VICKERs is practicing law with the
firm of Montgomery & Vickers. Qualified before the
Supreme court of West Virginia. He lives in Mont-
gomery, W. Va.

LUTHER VIOLETT, JR., is commodity distributor, Ken-
tucky Emergency Relief Administration, Paris, Ky.

Joun WERTMAN is working for the S. S. Kresge
Co., 826 Davis St., Evanston, II. ,

Joun ANDREW WoMELDoRF is at the Union Theo-
logical Seminary (Presbyterian), Richmond, Va.

1934
WILLIAM S. STERN is with S. D. Leidsodorf & Co.,
125 Park Ave., New York City, Certified Public Ac-

countants.

CARLTON V. WaAkE, JR., spent four years at the
University of Arkansas and graduated last June. He
lives in Pine Bluff, Ark.

CHARLIE WILSON is married and has two sons. He
lives in Erlanger, N. C.

GEORGE ZIMMERER lives at 5867 Nina Place, St.
Louis, Mo.

[ 32 ]

 

 

An Invitation to Finals

This is a cordial invitation to all Washington and Lee men and their families to return to
Lexington for the 187th Finals—the biggest and most interesting event of the year.

Last year, the dates of Finals were changed to the middle of the week rather than over the
week-end. This change proved so satisfactory that it will be continued.

You will find to welcome you, old friends who live here and others who come in the hope
of seeing you—and too, you will be tremendously interested in seeing the physical changes that
are taking place on the Campus. The new Law Building has made a perfect picture of our central
group, and the remainder of the large building program is well under way. Several classes are hav-
ing reunions. If yours is among them you should make every effort to attend.

 

 

 

 

 

McCRUM’S “LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BOLey

DRUG STORE was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni

FLOWER SHOP
of Washington and Lee

SODA FOUNTAIN

$3.00
BUS TERMINAL
order now from
* - © 2 os
9
Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To- Boley S Book Store
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Geo. W. St. Clair C. R. Brown, Jr., Huston St.Clair
Class of 1891 Class of 1916 Class of 1922

 

 

ay Uf; yay iat writes

its own ad RE

 

ae
4 Ce
7 .

 

ae
De oy

etd

 

 

 

 

et
—_—
~

Oe -

ae

 

 

 

Y 5
a b 4
ro
” *
aa

 

 

 

 

© 1936, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

 

