UMNi Magazine

of Washington and fee Universi
FO

—

ae i r & rT
os eee ;
PE SEIS.

, : :
Sy hee

TRY CS : =z

 

olume VII umber ©

ovember, 1931 2.50 a Vear

 

H E AOL AU LAEON. 1 MiA CG A 2 aoe

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their
cards in the directory. Rates on application.

R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, '18,-’22

THOS. F. OGILVIE
; ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW Suite 303 First National Bank

DoucLas, OBEAR & DOUGLAS

Building |
Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.
Bluefield, W. Va.

_

Atlantic City, N. J.

 

 

 

 

ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
ATrTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE 25-29 Citizens National Bank
411 Atlanta Trust Company Building 18
Building
Atlanta, Georgia | Parkersburg, W. Va.
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE | JAMES R. CASKIE, '09 PAUL C. BUFORD, '13
ii | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Citrus Exchange Building. |
Tampa, Florida | Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building
| Lynchburg, Virginia | Roanoke, Virginia

W. H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21.

 

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10

| Compliments of David E. Smitherman
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
| E. C. CAFFREY, ’09 | LAw OFFICES

| Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL |
_ GARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN |
SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

|
General practice in the courts of the | Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal | Suite 881 Mills Building |
Departments H. B. Moore, Principal

Associate Income Tax Specialists _ San Francisco, California
1100 Investment Building
Washington, D. C.

J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.
Telephone Sutter 3363

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

E

a Oe: 8 A: Al tm N.Y Mm VA iG AA 2 aN

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, '19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a Century

W. and L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

“McCRUMS” For the Sake of Auld Lang

As Always the Gathering Place Of Syne
ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE Order a Virginia Smoke
Cured Ham
From

Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

WALTER McDONALD, President

k. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer

Harry K. Youne, Editor

 

VOL. VII

NOVEMBER, 1931

NO.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

wha Valley Bank.
Building.

Suilding.
3enden-Trees Building.

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

 

 

PHILADELPHIA, PENN.

 

CuHar.oTre, N. C.—Dr. Wm. Allen, Medical Building. Lovuisvi_Lte, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Building.
Wasuincton, D. C.—Elwood Seal, Investment Building. Nrw York, N. Y.
Mempuis, TENN.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities.
ROANOKE, VA.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
3IRMINGHAM, ALA.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Building.
Morris Plan Bank. ATLANTA, Ga.
1309 Hoge Building. JACKSONVILLE, FLA.
H. M. Blain, 322 Hillary St.
Texas.—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Norro_k, Va.—Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building.
EK. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

 

 

 

 

CONTENTS

PAGE
Washington and Lee.......................- Frontipiece 2
182nd School Year Commences........................ 3
Faculty Changes Announced.............................. 3
Literature in This Rising Generation .............. a
McCormick Day Entertains Thousands............ 5
Times and Towns Change.................ccccecccseesees 7
A Windjammer’s Physician.....................c:c000e 8
Member of Richmond Council.............0............ 9
Gilliam Named Dean of Students ...........000...... 9
Roy FE. . NSM atid iste o acti nieeiyias cath 10
Alumni Survey Commiission...................00..0000.000. 11
Louis J. (Ea y; meme ais 17 hcccksicis-tcsccocckss. 11
Thornton Allen: Song Writer..............0..00.00000.. 12
Major Tyler Heads Alumnni..........0..000.00..000000. 13
New York Alumni to Meet..............00000cc.c. 13
Billy Howell Wins Monogram...................0..0..... 14
Wilson Wins Golf Crown...............00.cccccceeeeee. 15
Heary 2.  Jonnston, "29. Tee nc ccocsoescus 16
Magazine Features University.........0...0.000.000000... 16
1931 Generals Hopeful at Mid-Season ........... 17

PAGE
1931 Freshmen Look Promising........................ 22
RUM UGE POEMNNNYN 0... 55. cha, coped eeedave ys (oi cavsctiboeee 23
Massillon Miller Heuser, ’29....000....00000. 23
Davis Praises Small College................0......ce. 24
Huntington, W Va., Alumni Meet.................... 25
Te re se cesccseeees 25
Marriages :
Danielson—Francken ................cccccccccceeeeeeseeeee 16
TAME mIRC INIA TIINSE cig fests csv ese cansanseéscenckes.occes 26
Tea AMSER re MIUUROONL G06 Co eile ...scaccescesets 26
VY TT IE ooo ni soda iaieced..n- acc cndnccnncas 26
Deaths :
Judge Thomas Rothrock, °13........0..0000000...... 27
Se NI FF ld isiits.....0scseeceeas. 27
ORD Fi ReMNEPONIRONL, CD pecs ioceddcrany. se .ccnsedecey. 27
PR Ms GEE Fak hies ss nvcoutite ted nveohs 27
Emmett Brooks Parker, ’Z3 ...................-00s0e0 28
Rev. Dr. Absolem Sydenstricker, ’78............ 28
Col. Alexander W. Maish, ’03...........0000...000... 28
WOTODUNNE bis hicks ee a ats ols ate 29

 

[1]

Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
CHARLESTON, W. Va.—Wirt W. Donnally, Kana-
LyncuBpurc, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch
RicHMOND, VA.—Joe Bernie,
Kwing Humphries, Healey Building. Forr Worru, TExAs
Fred Valz, Atlantic National Bank Building.
Derrroir, Micu.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Company.
Huntincton, W. Va.,—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank
PITTSBURGH, PENN.—J. W. Claudy,

E. S. McCord,
NEw Or.EANS, La.—
SAN ANTONIO,

 

N

ae ee ee A ee ee ee

E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[2]

T HE BD MON

a.

I

Mime GG AZ. te eee

182nd School Year Commences

ASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
formally opened its one hundred and eighty-
second session on September 19.

  

W.

A university assembly, presided over by Dr. Fran-
cis Pendleton Gaines, marked the beginning of another
year’s activity on the campus. Outstanding events on
the assembly program were the address of Dr. Gaines,
in which he outlined the needs and opportunities of the
University, and an address by Graham Morison, presi-
dent of the student body, who called attention to the
necessity of maintaining the honor system as in past
years.

The year began for a part of the freshman class
on September 11, when eighty-five first-year men went
to camp at Arnold’s Valley. The camp, situated about
seven miles below Natural Bridge and known as Camp
Powhatan, was offered to Washington and Lee Uni-
varsity by the Roanoke Council of the Boy Scouts of
America.

Professor Frank J. Gilliam, in charge of the ven-
ture, declared that the camp was the most successful
in its history. Upon arriving at the camp the fresh-
men fell into a routine which provided an orientation
prior to their formal entry into the University. Fol-
lowing a brief welcome by Dr. Gaines the program of
hiking, swimming, volley ball, horseshoe pitching and
informal talks got under way.

A three-fold purpose outlined by the leaders of
the camp was stressed and carried through at all times.
The first and most important was the opportunity af-
forded the freshmen in obtaining an introduction to
Washington and Lee’s ideals and aims through informal
speeches. These talks were the concluding part of each
day’s program and took place around the camp-fire.

Individual questions from the freshmen relating
to problems which puzzled them as they prepared to
embark on their new phase of life were answered by
the leaders as a second purpose of the camp.

Faculty members in every branch of the University
were on hand to explain their subject. ‘This third pur-
pose gave the 85 men present a chance to meet these
leaders and at the same time become introduced to the
background of their intended course of study.

Swimming under the direction of M. Peel Rivers
vied with hiking for honors of attracting the new men.
The pool described by Professor Gilliam as being one
of the most magnificent of its kind he has ever seen was
the scene of a free-for-all swimming meet.

“Gentlemen at Washington and Lee” comprised

the basis of a talk by Graham Morison, president of the
student body.

“Fraternities and Their Purpose’ found their
champion in Professor Gilliam.

Dr. Vincent C. Franks, rector of the Episcopal
Church and Dr. James J. Murray, pastor of the Pres-
byterian Church were visitors to the camp, each saying
a few words of welcome to the gathering.

Immediately after breakfast on Monday the 14th,
camp was broken. With the presence of practically
one-third of the freshman class at this year’s camp ten-
tative plans for next year are already being formed
which it is hoped will include the entire incoming class
of 1936.

During registration, several evening meetings were
held to aid new men. On Tuesday evening, Septem-
ber 16, Dr. Gaines delivered an address of welcome at
Lee Chapel, and Graham Morison offered greetings in
behalf of the student body. Suggestions for registra-
tion were made by Dr. L. W. Smith, and Dean J. L.
Howe gave a talk on fraternities.

Wednesday night, Prof. R. N. Latture explained
the function of the faculty committee on freshmen.
“Athletics” was the subject of a talk by Prof. Forest
Fletcher, and Coach H. K. Young spoke on “Freshman
Teams.”

Thursday morning Dr. J. J. Murray spoke on “The
Student and the Church,” and Graham Morison and
Dean W. H. Moreland spoke on “The Honor System.”
Thursday night the president entertained freshmen at
an informal reception at his home. Preceding this
there were talks on “Christian Work on the Campus,”
by Prof. W. W. Morton, and on “The Dean’s Office
and Freshmen,” by Dean H. D. Campbell.

An active rushing season again marked the first
week of school. ‘The twenty national social organiza-
tions pledged 184 men. Statistics show that the num-
ber of men from the South taken in by the fraternities
continues much higher than the number of northern
boys pledged. Four of the fraternities on the campus
have moved into new houses this spring. ‘Two of these
were forced to move by disastrous fires last spring.

 

FACULTY CHANGES ANNOUNCED.

Six new faculty members have been added to the
teaching staff of Washington and Lee University this
year, several men have received leaves of absence and
a new administrative office, “Dean of Students” has
been created.

Frank J. Gilliam, associate professor of English,
will take over the personnel duties formerly handled
by the assistant dean of the University at the start of
the 1932-33 college year and also continue his teaching

[3]

T ta: B & a. i oN

I

 

- we oe a

 

in the English department.

Norris W. Goldsmith, A.B., Cornell,
professor of physics. He has completed the require-
ments for a Ph.D. degree at Cornell University and will
receive the diploma next year. He has taught at Ithaca
while taking graduate work. George S. Jackson, A.B.
Bowdoin College and M.A. Harvard University, 1s
assistant professor of English. He taught at Cam-
bridge while he was at the university.

Karl W. Fischer, B. S. and M. A. Indiana Uni-
versity, and Douglas Doubleday, A.B. University of
Michigan, have been added to the Lee School of Jour-
nalism. Mr. Fischer, as an assistant professor, will
take over part of the work of Prof. William L. Mapel,
head of the school, who is on a year’s leave of absence
with the American Boy in Detroit. Mr. Doubleday will
direct publicity and teach newspaper and magazine
work. Mr. Fischer was in newspaper work five years
and also taught at Baker University. Prof. O. W.
Riegel is acting head of the school.

F. G. Barnes, A.B. and M.A. William and Mary
College, is a new political science instructor. He also
completed three years of graduate study at Harvard
University. David W. Stoner, A.B. Gettysburg Col-
lege, an instructor in physics, has done graduate work
at his Alma Mater and taught there before coming
to Washington and Lee.

Prof. B. R. Ewing and Dr. M. H. Stowe have
returned from leaves of absence. Professor Ewing
is assistant professor of romance languages and has
been at Princeton University for graduate work. Dr.
Stowe, assistant professor of geology, received his
doctor’s degree from Cornell University after a year
of study. Fitzgerald Flournoy, associate professor
of English, is studying at Yale University this year.

Miss Corinne Bacon will be librarian for the year.
She formerly was librarian of the Drexel Institute,
Philadelphia, and is on leave of absence as a bibliog-
rapher from the H. H. Wilson Company of New York.

is assistant

 

LITERATURE IN THIS GENERATION

Unless plans now afoot go awry, the bi-centennial
anniversary of George Washington’s birth (1732) will
be celebrated in appropriate fashion by Washington and
Lee University at Lexington some time in April next
year. For if institutions are the lengthened shadows
of individuals, then this University is the projection of
George Washington, educator.

Of more than passing interest, not only to alumni
of the institution but to all Americans, is a recent bul-
letin issued by the university touching the dim begin-
ing of W. and L.

Washington’s largest educational philanthropy, by
all means his chief single and permanent investment
in education, was the gift of a block of 100 shares of
stock in the James River Canal Company, made to what

+]

NE

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
  

was then known as Liberty Hall Academy, now Wash-
ington and Lee University. It is interesting to note that
this gift, kept intact and valued today at $50,000, still
yields to that institution a satisfactory rate of income,
This donation, announced in 1796, and subsequently
confirmed by Washington’s will, is not only the great-
est gift made by the father of the Republic, it is also
one of the largest gifts to education in American his-
tory up to that time. Virginia had voted to Washing-
ton this block of shares in 1784, a token of gratitude,
In accepting the tribute, Washington, announced his pur-_
pose of tranferring the actual stock to an institution —
for public welfare. Then he carefully deliberated, ones
imagines. |

In the Valley of Virginia stood Liberty Hall, clos
to the Natural Bridge, where, tradition affirms, Wash-
ington carved his name higher than mortal had dared,
and fronting the Blue Ridge, to which, Washington
asserted, he would if necessity dictated carry his banner
for a last stand in behalf of liberty. This school had
struggled for a half century. Six weeks before th
Declaration of Independence was signed, the trustees
in patriotic fervor, changed the name to Liberty He
By formal charter of 1782 the institution had been
authorized to confer degrees. Yet its story had beer
one of difficulty.

Its president, William Graham, learning of Wash-
ington’s purpose, prepared a statement urging the clai
of Liberty Hall. Influential friends like Gen. Andrew
Moore and Gen. Francis Preston, lent their aid.
well-authenticated tradition affirms that Gen. Henry
Lee—“Light Horse Harry’—close friend alike of
Washington and Graham, argued for the Valley schoo
Therein is suggested a coincidence of history, for Hen
ry Lee’s son, Robert Edward Lee, was later to become
president of the college.

Washington’s decision was made slowly and with
extreme care. It represented his faith in the institu
tion to which he finally awarded the stock. With his
consent the trustees changed the name of the school to
Washington Academy. ‘This name was subsequently
revised to Washington College, and then, after Gen
Lee’s death, to Washington and Lee University. |

To trustees of Washington Academy the great
president wrote: “To promote literature in this rising
empire and to encourage the arts have ever been
amongst the warmest wishes of my heart.’ — Birma
ham News.

 

Dr. H. T. Garard, A. B., ’22, is a specialist in di-
seases of the eye, ear, nose, and throat. He is asso-
ciate editor of E. E. N. & T., Monthly, Chicago, and
designer of diagnostic instruments for Welch, Allyr
Co., Auburn, N. Y.

 

Harry Hamilton, ’04, is pastor of the Presbyterian 1
Church at Cotulla, Texas. .

7 HE By oN

——

ee eee © Bea” ee eee ee

cCormick Day Entertains Thousands

ARIDAY, September 25, thousands of persons
witnessed ceremonies which will give them a
Jjnew viewpoint on Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, and in the same gesture the University honored
Cyrus Hall McCormick and gained a new emblem on

   

sa *

its campus.

The day was set aside here to celebrate the Rock-
bridgian inventor who made a reaper in 1831, and
who—as trustee—aided Robert E. Lee in guiding the
University through the difficult post-war period. Later
he and his family became foremost benefactors.

His statue—the gift of his children—now stands

 

in mid-campus, facing the gate-
wav and almost in line with New-
comb Hall.

Probably seven or eight
thousands saw some part of the
exercises of the day. In the
morning more than three thous-
and gathered on the campus for
the unveiling ceremonies, and
heard speeches at that time by
Governor. Pollard, Dr. John H.
Finley of the New York Times,
and George C. Peery, of the
board of trustees. The Univer-
sity entertained then several hun-
dred specially invited guests at
lunch in Doremus Gymnasium.
Dr. Gaines presided, and John
Temple Graves, II, Birmingham
journalist, and Congressman
Harry St. George Tucker spoke.
In mid-afternoon Dr. Benjamin
Lacy, Jr., president of the Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, conducted a memorial service at Mt. Carmel
church, and starting about five o’clock more than six
thousand saw an historical pageant staged at Walnut
Grove farm, the McCormick homestead.

The day’s program went off with machine-like
regularity which justified the weeks of careful planning
by administration, faculty and other assistants. H. A.
Kellar, McCormick historian and representative, spent
several weeks in Lexington perfecting details.

A speakers’ platform was constructed beside the
Statue inside of a large, roped-off square. Inside this
section, too, were a few seats for special guests, but
the majority of the spectators stood. Governor Pol-
lard presided and introduced Dr. Finley as “a friend
of Washington and Lee and of Virginia.” ‘The govern-
or himself cited Cyrus Hall McCormick as an equai
in the development of the west to another great Vir-

 

Cyrus Hatt McCormick

ginian—George Rogers Clarke.

“The harvester seems more important than the
coliseum,” Dr. Finley said. “It is symbolic of a new
chapter in the history of mankind... There is a
reaper whose name is Death and there is a reaper whose
name is Life. McCormick, like Pasteur, has fought
the reaper Death.”

The speaker also pointed to McCormick back-
ground. He said that it had been recently discovered
that many of the American Scotch-Irish, including
McCormick, are actually descended from Scotto-Cel-
tic royalty. ‘‘He forever removed from mankind the
fear of famine, and if there is
over production and people hun-
gry, it is because distribution
has not caught up.”

Dr. Finley mentioned in con-
clusion the tribute that the French
Academy paid to McCormick.
“The Academy said ‘He has done
more for agriculture than any
other man,’ and the president of
France added that ‘without the
reaper, France would starve,’ ”

It was planned that John W.
Davis receive the statue for the
University, but in his unavoid-
able absence, Mr. Peery gracious-
ly took his place. Mr. Peery
praised the University as deserv-
ing of this latest McCormick
generosity, commenting—‘It has
He observed

how worthy Cyrus Hall McCor-
mick is of this commemoration.

The statue was unveiled by Nancy Blaine, twelve-
year-old great grand-daughter of the inventor. It is
the work of John David Brcin, thirty-two-year-old
Serbian, who has spent most of his life in the
midwestern part of the United States. Among the
other sculptures he has made are those of Woodrow
Wilson, Mark Twain, Dostoiovsky, and Ina Claire. The

the spirit of Lee.”

statue itself stands on a granite slab and above towers
the most impressive figure of the great inventor. Brcin
was present at the unveiling.

One of the most pleasant features of the day, ac-
cording to remarks made by the visitors, was the lunch-
eon in the gymnasium. One address was delivered by
Mr. Graves, member of the staff of the Birmingham
Age-Herald. According to newspaper comment,
Graves made the most “charming” talk of the day. He
said that “romance is not dead” and that he likes to

[5 ]

2 eee a te. eae

I

A. SS ee eee

 

think of the South “‘as a land of romance in its broader
sense of gallant venture, which has lived in the history
of the country and threads the lives of industrial
leaders.”

“Whether the day of swords and roses is gone de-
pends on the point of view. The spirit in which Mc-
Cormick evolved the reaper was the spirit of faith, plus
the ability to believe and the purpose to be enthusiastic.”
Mr. Graves concluded.

Congressman Harry St. George Tucker was the
other speaker at the luncheon. President Gaines in-
troduced him as a “representative Virginian.” ‘The
speaker reviewed the role taken by Rockbridge county
in the development of America. The Scotch-Irish here
was the reason he gave for the high place the county
has taken.

In closing, Dr. Gaines expressed the appreciation
of the school for the statue and said “his was not the
spirit of the dead sea but the spirit of the living waters.
He remembered us we will always remember him.”

The members of the McCormick family who had
impressively lined the front row at the unveiling were
introduced at the conclusion of the luncheon. Mrs.
Emmons Blaine, daughter of the inventor, responded
to her introduction with a short talk in which she re-
lated some of her memories of her father. Others
present and introduced included Harold McCormick,
Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus H. McCormick, Sr., Mr. and
Mrs. Cyrus McCormick, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Fowler
McCormick, William G. McCormick, Chauncey Mce-
Cormick, Mrs. Walter Damrosch and John A Lejeune.

While this luncheon for especially invited guests
was taking place, a buffet luncheon was held on the cam-
pus back of the Law school and Washington College.
Three tables piled high with sandwiches, ice cream,
potato chips, and pickles gave hundreds of people a rea-
son for spending luncheon hour on the campus.

The guests adjourned to services held in the Mt.

Carmel Church at Steele’s Tavern. ‘This was to com-

 

memorate the religious activities of Cyrus Hall McCor-
mick. Dr. Benjamin Lacy, called attention to the in-
ventor’s first business failure after he had made the
reaper. ‘This he said brought out such heroic charac-
teristics as truth, honesty, industry, perseverence and
fearlessness. McCormick was praised as a man of
The inventor had two visions according. to
Dr. Lacy. “One was mankind toiling in the fields.
His eyes passed beyond the confines of our land to dis-
tant fields of whitening wheat and his reapers followed.
The need
in these fields was for ministers to reap. His gener-
osity is shown by the Presbyterian Theological Semi-
nary in Chicago which stands beside the International
Harvester Company as the second of his great monu-
ments.”

The formal speeches for the day were over when
the church service was concluded. The last event on
the program was the pageant. Because many of the
visiting notables were late the pageant had a late start.
A large stage, about 172 feet long, had been constructed
for the pageant. Even an orchestra pit was dug out
of the ground for the musicians. The Washington
and Lee athletic bleachers were put on the farm, and
cared for a crowd of about 5,000, and one thousand
more were massed along the side lines.

The pageant was called the “Pageant of the Har-
vest.” It was produced by James Bradley-Griffin and
directed by N. Fred Essig, both from Chicago. The
authors are H. A. Kellar and Miss Lucile O’Connor.
Most of the cast were descendants of the neighbors of
Cyrus McCormick. Nearly all the players came from
Lexington, Raphene, and Fairfield.

Despite the late start, and the ever increasing
Cos-
tuming and scenery were beautiful, and then there were
the dancers on the stage. With each scene showing
an advance on harvesting equipment, there was a special
dance of that period. Many Washington and Lee stu-

vision.

His second vision was the harvest of souls.

chilly weather, the pageant was a grand success.

a or —? ?

Left to right---Mrs. Emmons Blaine, Wm. G. McCormick. Cyrus H. McCormick, Mrs. Cyrus Hl. McCormick, Mrs. F. P. Gaines, Harold F. McCormick, Mrs. Cyrus
McCormick, Jr., Cyrus McCormick, Jr., Mrs. Fowler McCormick, Fowler McCormick, and at extreme right, Dr. Gaines.

[ 6 ]

 

- H BEB

dents took part as dancers.

The finale was a riot of color. The flags of all
nations were brought out. The girls carrying the flags
were grouped about Uncle Sam. The background was
a huge loaf of bread, symbolizing how the want for
bread keeps the nations close together in harmony.

Several other events made a hit with the visitors.
One was the exhibit in Reid Hall of replicas and models
of harvesting machines dating to 2500 B.C. ‘The most
interesting feature to the visitors were the working
models of all the McCormick machines beginning with
the 1831 reaper. The miniatures were costly. One
was valued at $2,500.

Another event the visitors liked was the free movie
at the New Theatre. This film showed the “Romance
of the Reaper.” The plot concerned the actual inven-
tion.

An impressive unannounced event took place when
the members of the McCormick family placed a wreath
on the tomb of Lee in recognition of the friendship
which existed between the Southern chief and McCor-
mick when they were co-workers for Washington and
Lee.

Scores of notables besides the McCormick family,
many alumni, and all the trustees of the University,
except John W. Davis, were present.

Talk can still be heard about:

The expression on Miss Nancy Blaine’s face when
the Governor introduced her as “Annie Blaine”... .
the way the spectators turned constantly to face the
batteries of clicking motion picture and still cameras . .
the pointing out of celebrities . . . Mrs. Fowler Mc-
Cormick entering with a confederate flag which she
planted in the ground in front of her . . . Dr. Finley’s
jocular attitude toward almost everything .. . the
beautiful red wreath placed on Lee’s tomb... Mr.
Graves incomparable platform manner... the free
lunch on the campus, with all fraternity dining rooms
closed for the day ... the beautiful setting for the
pageant at the farm .. . the Alleghenies’ sunset just
as the pageant closed—a full day of celebration.

 

TIMES AND TOWNS CHANGE

The old grad attending a class reunion today will
notice many changes in the old town. If he is of the
class of thirty years ago he will have some difficulty
in reconciling the new town with the old. Nelson street,
in those days just a lane running down to the Corner
Saloon, has developed into a modern street, while
Washington street has kept practically intact its for-
mer appearance.

The old town was replete with ale houses and
places of refuge from thirst, sporting no less than six
saloons in the period before prohibition. Where the
New Corner Store now dispenses soft drinks and soft
boiled eggs to college men, the old Corner dealt in

Ao. 0 ae AN

Mo Ok oa. a ee

sterner stuff. Located in a favorable position it was
known as the “handy” saloon, and it has been rumored
that its chief source of revenue was in the illicit sale
of liquor to the gentlemen attending the two educa-
tional institutions. In the block in which the First Na-
tional Bank now stands there were two modern saloons,
both vieing in an attempt to catch the elite trade of
the city. One of the most popular of the many saloons
was a place known as Whals, located just about where
the Peoples National Bank now stands. In addition to
these there were ale houses on the Buena Vista road
and excellent beer was served at the Lee Highway Inn.

With the burning of the Sigma Chi house one of
the old landmarks of Washington street passed away.
It was built for a store house. Some time later it was
converted into a dwelling and in a few more years
became the property of the Sigma Chi’s.

The graduate of 1910 had quite a walk to the
“P.O.” It was located at about where Lyons’ store
is now and remained there until the new one was
constructed in 1911.

No doubt the movie fans can recall the days wher
they attended the flickering shows in the old theate1
located near where the laundry now stands, and then
followed it to the Lyric, then a most modern theater,
and finally to the New Theater, erected in 1912.

The Rockbridge National Bank building, the var-
ious stores along Nelson street and many on Main
blossomed out in a few short years. The old town lost
a great deai of its pre-war appearance and became
just another little town.

While the town has changed the old grad will
find many changes in the school also. If he is before
the war in his class affiliations he probably toiled up
and down thousands of steps to reach Wilson field,
while now he walks across on a modern bridge from
the new gym. The old gym stood where the Chemis-
try building now stands and when it burned the athletes
transferred to what for the last few years has been the
field house, which also burned last fall, and thence
in 1913 to the Doremus gymnasium.

Lexington has always had plenty of fires to en-
tertain the students and change landmarks, and the
last year has seen five to add to the list.

The newly completed drive in place of the, old lane
along the front of the campus gives a still different
aspect to the scene.

No longer may the returning student cool his
thirst in the foaming mug of beer at one of the many
old time saloons, nor can he be quite sure of his land-
marks any more, but he can always look up at Wash-
ington College and say, “Well, at least Old George is
still what he used to be.”

 

John T. Lewis, ’26, is now the cashier of the
First National Bank of Jacksonville, Texas.

[7]

A de Bee ee IN

I

By Me ee: ee

A Windjammer’s Physician

HE “U. S. S. Constitution”—most famous of
Al American warships made immortal as “Old

Ironsides” by Oliver Wendel Holmes’ lines
“Aye, tear her tattered ensign down!’”—-sailed again
from the Boston navy yard on Thursday as millions
of patriotic hearts thrilled once more, but not one of
them more interested than Dr. Ezra Z. Derr, Ceresville,
Md., who sailed in 1878 to the Paris Exposition as U.S.
naval surgeon on “Old Ironsides.” Dr. Derr, as far
as is known is the only surviving commissioned officer
of the Paris voyage of the “Constitution” and recalls
memorable experiences connected not only with that
famous ship, but other ships on which he sailed before
retiring as a medical director of the United States navy
after 30 years of service.

In the late hours of Thursday afternoon as the in-
vincible “Old Ironsides,” reconditioned and _ loudly
cheered, slipped out of the Boston navy yard for East-
ern ports where she will be visited by thousands, Dr.
Derr sat quietly in his drawing room near Frederick
and recalled momentous happenings of over 50 years
ago. It was a long voyage the “Constitution” made to
France in 1878 under her own canvas, mused he—but
officers and men arrived safely after about three weeks’
sailing and went into dock at Havre, France, one of the
finest artificial ports in the world.

After spending about nine months in France, where
the ship received great acclaim, it set sail for home, the
plan being to sail her near the English coast. But all
was not as quiet as anticipated. Unforeseen develop-
ments occurred. The navigator chanced to sight what
he believed merely a cloud, and was so sure it was a
cloud that only when the ship became grounded on a
chalk cliff off England did the officers and men realize
that they were on the coast of England and narrowly es-
caped a serious mishap. With guns firing to attract
attention of the British, efforts were made to separate

  

the ship from the chalk, and soon tugs came out and

were successful in the undertaking.

“Old Ironsides’”” docked then at Portsmouth,
where it was found that her keel had been badly damag-
ed and would require extensive repairs. While the lat-
ter were being made, English visitors flocked to the
historic ship, the second American battle craft ever to
force an English ship to lower its colors in warfare,
and her officers were shown the greatest hospitality
while in port.

Damage repaired and the pleasant reception of the
British still lingering in their memories, those on
board the “Constitution” turned their eyes southward
and sailed into the Bay of Biscay, off the coast of Spain.
But once more a nemesis awaited them. In the midst

of a severe cyclonic storm, the rudder of the ship was
damaged, and the situation would have been serious,
indeed, had it not been for the fact that the ship’s sails
were used to advantage and the navigator headed for
Libson, Portugal. There again crowds flocked to see
the ship that had attracted such attention in European
as well as American ports, and once more officers and
men were cordially received while repairs were com-
pleted.

Sailing a third time for home, “Old Ironsides”
found herself in the Sargossa Sea, where sea-weed
and grasses were so prevalent as to give a picture
of a great ship sailing through a meadow of green,
rather than an ocean of blue water. Part of the ancient
route Columbus used in discovering America was fol-
lowed, and after about two months’ delay, “Old Iron-
sides” sailed into New York harbor where another
tumultuous reception occurred.

THRILLING Days Over

After that “Old Ironsides” was used as a training
ship for the United States Navy, but few were the voy-
ages ever made by her under her own canvas, and only
Dr. Derr remains of the commissioned officers who
sailed her across distant seas for European acclaim in
1878. Had not Oliver Wendel Holmes in a moment
of irony and bitterness over the decision to destroy the
valiant old vessel written the poem which is on the lips
of every school child, perhaps, only those who sailed
with the faithful frigate would be recalling ‘the old
days” now, instead of all patriotic Americans who re-
joice to know that at least part of the old ship was used
in reconstructing the vessel which has been in dry dock
at the Boston Navy Yard. In England and America
historic incidents connected with the victory of the
“Constitution” over the British ‘“Guerriere” on August
19, 1812, were recalled; and at the actual time of the
happening, in [ondon, the “London ‘Times’ stated
that “August 19 marked for the first time in the
history of the world that an English frigate had hauled
down her colors to an American.” ‘This was incorrect,
however, as there had been a previous American vic-
tory, before the War of 1812, John Paul Jones having
received much glory during the Revolutionary War for
a naval victory.

OTHER EXPERIENCES

Passing from “Old Ironsides” to recollections of
other sea voyages, Dr. Derr recalled his first cruise as
a very young commissioned officer in the Navy, when
at 21 years of age, he was ordered as a Naval surgeon
to the “U. S$. S. Constellation,” sister ship of the ‘““Con-
stitution.”” Interesting voyages were made then, and

[ 8]

 

-

 

- Hs

later on the “U. 5. S. Hartford,” flagship of the fleet
in Mobile Bay. He also went to sea on the “U. 5. 5.
Monocacy,” memories of which were accompanied by
4 smile for the river by the same name flows past the
Derr home at Ceresville—and then in 1889, Dr. Derr
participated in stirring events at Samoa in the Pacific.
Three three American ships were stationed, as were
three German and an English vessel to protect respec-
tive interests of the three countries. As though a
revolution between two tribes of natives, one sup-
ported by the Germans and the other by the Americans
and English, were not sufficient excitement, a hurri-
cane arose and the German ships and two American
ones were hurled onto a reef, the havoc in the Ameri-
can group resulting in the death of 40 men and other
loss. In Samoa, Dr. Derr established a hospital and
spent many interesting weeks.

 

That—and other reminiscences—and the retired
naval officer sat back in his chair and gazed reflectively
at the ships about him on the walls of the room—ships
off the coast of China, ships with sails full of wind
and sailing here, there and everywhere; as elsewhere
in his home were trophies of years in foreign lands.
Tall, slender, with quiet eyes and white hair, he talked
as though they were an equal blending of memory and

 

Mc ta Ae. on 2 8

ee WA A a ee

reality, and displayed a keen, but reserved interest in
the fact that “Old Ironsides” sails again.

 

MEMBER OF RICHMOND COUNCIL

Carlton E. Jewett, ’21, is serving his second term
as a member of the city council of Richmond, Va. He
is reading clerk of the House of Delegates of Virginia,
and has been engaged in the practice of law since 1922.
As a member of the council Mr. Jewett was assigned
to one of its most important committees, i. e., Docks,
Rivers and Harbors, which committee was instrumen-
tal in securing an appropriation in the recent Rivers
and Harbors bill passed by Congress in 1930, which will
provide the city of Richmond with better harbor facil-
ities and a deeper channel to the Atlantic seaboard, the
Federal Government appropriating approximately four
million dollars for this work alone. When this work is
completed all of the larger shipping vessels of the world
can dock at Richmond’s port. ‘The dream of genera-
tions realized when the government decided to deepen

the channel of the James River from Richmond to
Norfolk.

 

William Harrington, ’29, is a student in the Har-
vard School of Law.

 

Gilliam Named Dean of Students

Frank J. Gilliam, associate professor of English has been
named Dean of Students according to an announcement made by
Dr. Gaines following the meeting of the Board of Trustees on
September 24. The position is a new one in the administrative
machinery of the University and will represent an outgrowth of
the work formerly done by the Assistant Dean, which has been
relinquished by Dr. D. B. Easter who plans to devote his entire
time to his department of romance languages.

The new position may be defined roughly as sympathetic per-
sonal work. ‘The primary duties of the Dean of Students will be
to acquire in advance all possible information concerning boys who
enter the University, to pre-digest this information, and make it
available for the registration process, and to follow through in all
possible counsel and advice in order that every student may realize
his best possibility.

The trustees feel that Professor Gilliam by temperment and
training and natural aptitude is particularly well adapted to this
work, He is a product of Washington and Lee University, class
of 1917, and is thoroughly acquainted with the distinctive aims
of the institution. He has had large experience in personal con-
tacts and in addition has had special training at Colum>ia University in all the latest methods of personnel
administration. Professor Gilliam will continue his connection with the department of English.

The trustees expressed their appreciation for the service which Dr. Easter has rendered as Assistant
Dean. Alumni will be interested to know that he has recovered his strngth aftre an illness during the sum-
mer and is prepared to bring his scholarships and teaching ability to the important department committed
to him.

 

 

 

 

194

| ee, Se A t DD Mm. N

ROY E. NICHOLS, ’27.

Roy E. Nichols, ’27, is now soloist with the Boston
Male Choir. He made a successful concert tour of
the South recently; was the winner in the National
Federation of Music Clubs contest, and has written

2
ca

" .
¥ »
-

— af

f *
aw

* ‘wal

_ oF a <

end 7

ts -
.

ee

 

 

itt titel rl i taal iit ii

 

ten compositions for voice. Concert tour on R. K. O.
circuit, season 1931-32. He has had many engagements
with the Paramount Studios (Long Island), and has
made frequent radio broadcasts over stations WNRC,
WBZ, WBZA (Boston). Mr. Nichols is now musical
director for Camp Mananacook—( Summer )—Read-

field, Maine.

Shreveport, Louisiana
August 19, 1931
Mr. Cy Young,
Lexington, Va.
Dear Cy:

Here is a piece of information that I ran across
the other day about an alumnus of the old school, of
whom we should be very proud.

Honorable George Mathews, who attended Lib-
erty Hall Academy in 1794-1795, was appointed by
Thomas Jefferson Judge of the Territory of Mississippi
in 1805. He was transferred to the Territory of Or-
leans in 1806, and on the admission of Louisiana to
the Union in 1812, he was appointed by Governor Clai-
borne Judge of the Supreme Court of the State of
"Louisiana, and within a few months, upon the resigna-
tion of Judge Hall, became presiding Judge. ‘This sta-

I

MAGA Zt N ae

tion he filled until his death on November 14, 1836. He
was, therefore, the Chief Justice of our Supreme Court —
for the first twenty-three years of our Statehood except
the three or four months in 1812 when Judge Hall was
Chief Justice.

You will find an account of his life in the 10 La,
iv, which no doubt is in the law library.

I was greatly interested to run across this piece
of information and thought I would pass it on to you.
And by the way, Washington and Lee is represented
on the present Supreme Court by Judge John R. Land.

With all good wishes, I am

Very truly yours,
Joun H. Tucker, Jr.

 

Savannah, Ga.
July 27, 1931
Editor, Alumni Magazine,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.
My dear Mr. Editor:

How I do enjoy the Alumni Magazine. It takes
us right back to the Campus and the days when we lived
there.

You might want to carry in your personals that
I have moved from the First Presbyterian Church,
Knoxville, Tenn., to the Independent Presbyterian
Church here in Savannah, Ga., with home address 138
FE. 45th Street, Ardsley Park.

It was a great joy to me to find old Dewey
Cook here and he gave me a big welcome, and has been
mighty kind to me. I also met “Puck” Walker at the
Rotary Club, whom I had not seen since 1903. He has
gotten high up in the Atlantic Coast Line and is a very
popular citizen in this beautiful old Southern city.
Washington and Lee Alumni are scarce in Savannah,
but we won’t admit anything adverse about the quality!

Cordially yours,
SAMUEL McP. Grascow, 1903

 

J. Rodd Moffett, ’29, is Far Eastern representa-
tive of the Armstrong Cork Co. He writes from
Shanghai that he was two months in Spain during the
beginning of the Revolution. Returned to the Orient
by the way of the Suez. Found Al Halsey, ’27, in the
National City Bank of New York in Hong Kong.
Sailed from Manila to Shanghai on a President boat
which Bob Bacon,’29, and Bemis, had just left in Shang-
hai. Tried to locate them in Shanghai but they had
sailed for South China. John Pilley, ’29, is teaching
at the Shanghai American School. His address is
150 Bubbling Well Road, Shanghai, China.

 

Ernest Kellner, ’14, is practicing law in Greenville,
Miss., under the firm name of Percy, Strauss & Kell-
ner.

[ 10 }

 

. H B&B Ap: UMN

I

3 Maen aR * Bplay, Wenner” ier Sietepes aR

Alumni Survey Commission

==m|\ SHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY is
‘\about to give itself a complete inspection, to
determine the course it will follow.

This fact became known here Saturday when Dr.
Francis P. Gaines, president of the school which was
eiven important financial impetus by George Washing-
ton and guided through a difficult period by Robert
E. Lee, announced that twelve of its distinguished
alumni have consented to act as a commission which
will survey its present policies and future opportunities.
“Their report, it is planned, will be published.

  

‘“’lhe time has come,” Dr. Gaines said, “for Wash-
ington and Lee to take complete stock of itself—its
present policies and its future possibilities. When we
consider the importance of our enterprise, as well as
our relation to the general trends and developments
in education, we see the timely value of a survey of our
present equipment and mode of endeavor, with an eye
to the future. We want a picture of the goal toward
which we will work in order to direct our efforts.

“Such a survey can be most profitably made by
a group of our own alumni, men who are themselves
interested, who are capable of entering into our prob-
lem, and who represent the University’s many points of
view. We plan to publish the survey as worked out
by this commission.”

The commission will study the complete program
of the University, the president further indicated, in-
cluding its method of limiting and selecting students,
the definition of its curriculum, and all its needs for
maintenance and endowment.

The twelve alumni who will form the group were
then named by the president. They will meet here
for the first time this month, he said, and if possible will
announce their findings about the first of January, 1932.

The twelve are:

Henry W. Anderson, ’98, Richmond attorney,
recipient of several foreign citations for his war relief
work and member of several governmental commissions
including the Wickersham commission; Douglas S.
Anderson, ’90, dean of the Tulane University engineer-
ing college and widely known in electrical organizations ;
Matthew Page Andrews, ’01, Baltimore editor-author
and editorial adviser of the Yale University Press.

Dr. William Claudy, ’09, Pittsburg pastor and
director social service for the Presbyterian Church
of Pennsylvania; James H. Dillard, ’76, Charlottesville,
Va., director of the Jeanes and Slater fund, member
of the General Education board, and rector of William
and Mary college; Wade H. Ellis, ’89, District of
Columbia attorney, one-time editor of the Cincinnati
Tribune and later assistant attorney general of the

United States.

Powell Glass, 07, Lynchburg, Va., a war-time
army officer and now general manager of the Lynch-
burg News; John M. Glenn, ’79, New York City, for
twenty-five years director of the Russel Sage Founda-
tion; D. Lawrence Groner, 92, United States district
judge in Norfolk until recently, when he was appointed
to the District of Columbia court of appeals bench.

Leroy Hodges, *10, Richmond economist and edi-
tor, director since 1925 of national commission on pris-
ons and prison labor; Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02,
Richmond physician and once medical corps major in
American Expeditionary Forces; and William R. Per-
kins, "97, New York City, vice-president and counsel
for Duke Power company and trustee of the Duke En-
dowment.

 

LOUIS J. (TY) RAUBER, B.S. ’27

Ty Rauber, ’27, whose gridiron career has found
its highlights at Central High School, Washington, D.
C., and Washington and Lee, has resigned his position
as football and baseball coach in favor of a legal posi-
tion with the Government.

Ty Rauber was one of the greatest football players
of his day. His speed of foot while at Washington
and Lee, has taken on legendary proportions. He was
taught the first fundamentals of the game as a fresh-
man at Central in 1919. He developed quickly and for
four years proved to be a bulwark of the Blue and
White team.

A freshman star at Washington and Lee, he made
good his threat as a yearling by three years of first-
string signal calling in the General’s back field, climax
ing his career in 1926 by being named All-Southern
quarter back and on the Associated Press All-American
third team. His great drop-kicking which beat Mary-
land in 1925 and 1926, has earned him a permanent
niche in his alma mater’s hall of fame.

Rauber was graduated last June from the National
Law School near the top of his class, and since has
passed the District Bar.

 

James Somerville, 14, writes from London,—
“Had the great pleasure of meeting Carl Gill en route
through London to the Gold Coast last summer (1930)
—and to meet Carl is tantamount to being a friend of
long standing in less than five minutes. Needless to
say, Carl is making an excellent record in one of our
most difficult posts.”

 

Webster R. Gilbert, ’28, is an accountant, resid-
ing at Kingman, Arizona.

[ 11 ]

ete A. 82,08 ee uN

I

Re A Ge, I

Thornton Allen: College Song Writer

 

@|PERHAPS everyone does not know that the
“|principal credit for the present popularity of
college music is attributed to a Washington
and Lee alumnus, Thornton W. Allen, of the class of
13, who is best known as the composer and publisher
of the famous “Washington and Lee Swing.”

Mr. Allen began his activities in school music while
a student at Blair Academy, Blairstown, N. J., where
he wrote the school Alma Mater song. ‘Then followed
numerous songs of a miscellaneous character, until
with the success of the “Swing’’ assured, he turned
again to college music, and has now become not only
the national authority in this field, but has written the
songs for a host of universities. ‘Two years ago he was
commissioned to write the new song for the University
of Maryland and this “Victory Song” is now well
known. Last year he was asked by the University of
Alabama to work with Gabriel Jacoby on the centennial
march, ‘March of Triumph,’ which is now one of the
outstanding college songs. More recently he has writ-
ten the new University of Florida song, “March of the
Fighting ’Gators,” the University of Arizona song,
“Fight, Wildcats, Fight!” and newest of them all, the
new song for William and Mary College, “Indian War-
riors’ Song” (‘““Wa-hoo’’). Two other national fav-
orites are “Football Blues” and “Pal of My College
Days,” the former adopted by several colleges.

 

 

 

 

In addition to the long list of popular songs already
in his catalogue, Mr. Allen has recently acquired the sole
rights to the following: “V. M. I. Spirit” (Virginia
Military Institute), “Fight On, Pennsylvania” (U. of
Pennsylvania), “Princeton Forever” (by the writers of
the famous Cannon Song March), “Razorback Rootin’
Song” (U. of Arkansas), and is also distributor for
the “Princeton Cannon Song March,” “Colgate March-
ing Song,” “Fordham Ram,” Dayton “Flyers March,”
etc. Mr. Allen also controls the rights of many other
favorites, including “Yea Alabama,” Roanoke’s “‘Ma-
roon Victory” and songs of Holy Cross, Pittsburg,
North Carolina, etc.

Among the universities for which Mr. Allen,
through the Thornton W. Allen Company, of which he
is president, has published the songs or song books, are
Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Maine, Washington
State, Maryland, Penn State, Princeton, Minnesota,
Pennsylvania, Illinois Wesleyan, Pittsburg, Connecti-
cut Aggies, Susquehanna, Franklin and Marshall, North
Carolina State, Roanoke, Washington and Lee, Florida,
William and Mary, etc. The University of Pitts-
burg song book, published by Mr. Allen, is regarded as
the handsomest college songbook in print. Two of his
best sellers are the new University of Maine songs,

“Hats Off to the Band” and “Spirit of Maine.” Mr.
Allen is releasing the new University of Maine song-
book this week.

Announcement has just been received of the re-
lease of the new “Popular Edition” of the Intercollegi-
ate Song Book, containing the outstanding song hits
of over one hundred of the foremost universities. This

 

 

THORNTON W. ALLEN

book is published by the Intercollegiate Song Book,
Inc., an organization made up of college men and of
which Mr. Allen is president. On the editorial and
advisory boards of this company are representative
college men from all parts of the country, including
Dr. George H. Denny, formerly president of Washing-
ton and Lee, and J. S. Gravely, Palmer Ingram, and
J. Presley Thornton, all of Washington and Lee. Dean
Chas. M. Gavley, of California, is chairman, and numer-
ous college presidents, deans and directors of music
are also included. Needless to add, the “Swing” is
among the outstanding numbers.

[t is interesting to know that Mr. Allen has kept
the name of Washington and Lee prominent in all his
activities, and in all the years that he has been adver-

[ 12 ]

 

T HE

A Le is a ee 8

MOA? GA me 2 eS

 

tising and promoting the “Swing” he has ever given the
college all the advertising and publicity he could. There
is no doubt but that this fact has helped tremendously
in keeping the name of Washington and Lee University
before the public, for the “Swing” is now internation-
ally known.

Mr. Allen is a member of the American Society
of Authors, Composers and Publishers, and various
other nationally known musical organizations. He is
also a signer of the ERPE Agreement which affiliates
him with the leading motion picture companies of the
world. He is also represented in Canada, London and
Melbourne, Australia.

In addition to his activities in the publishing and
song writing field, Mr. Allen also is managing editor
of the Musical Courier, the world’s greatest musical
magazine. He is on the board of directors of the Phi
Delta Theta Club of New York City.

 

MAJOR TYLER HEADS ALUMNI.

Maj. S. Heth Tyler was elected president of the
Tidewater Alumni Association of Washington and Lee
University at an organization luncheon October 15,
at Parks’ Restaurant, where Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines, was the principal speaker.

Other officers elected included J. E. Eggleston,
vice-president ; Walter E. Hoffman, secretary and treas-
urer, and W. W. Venable, J. E. Martin, Robert D.
Powers, Jr., and P. W. Murray, members of the exe-
cutive committee with the officers.

Dreams for a university offering work in a limited
number of fields, “doing what it does as well as it can
be done,” and emphasizing personal relationships, were
outlined by President Gaines. ‘‘We don’t want to be
the biggest school in the world,” the educator stated,
“nor do we want to teach every subject. We will limit
ourselves to B.A., law, some engineering, a little jour-
nalism and a little commerce—all conceived in the great
brain of Gen. Robert E. Lee. These we want to teach
as well as it can be done anywhere in the world—let
other schools do the rest.””. The student body, he added,
should be limited to 900 men.

“Further, we want to make gentlemen as well as
scholars, with personal relationships magnified to the
highest. I am convinced that the great aim of a college
in preparing students for adjustment to the world

should be to stress personal relationships and cultural.

values rather than intellectual.”

Urging support of his dream, Dr. Gaines held the
“root zone of hope” to be in the alumni.

Decision was reached at the meeting to organize
as a Tidewater Alumni Association to include in its
membership alumni from Norfolk, Portsmouth, the
Peninsula, Suffolk, and the Eastern Shore. ‘Two of the
34 alumni present yesterday were from Suffolk.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by Major Tyler, who

served as temporary chairman of the meeting before
his election as president.

The following alumni were present:

John W. Eggleston, *10, Earle A. Cadmus, ’26,
Richard Lee Page, 07, Robert J. Johnson, ’29, Cleaton
FE. Rabey, ’11, Geo. F. Seaborn, Jr., ’23, J. Davis Reed,
Jr., ’28, Wm. W. Pace, ’27, Morton Paul Levy, ’31,
Ralph H. Ricardo, ’23, J. Carlton Hudson, ’14, Law-
rence B. Wales, ’15, R. D. Glasser, ’08, R. C. Cole, 16,
Herman A. Sacks, ’11, R. J. B. Page, ’11, R. E. Eber-
sole, 98.

John E. Martin, *11, J. Melvin Lovelace, ’23, Dr.
Frank J. O’Connor, ’26, W. W. Venable, ’31, Walter
E. Hoffman, 31, Leonard H. Davis, ’30, Richard D.
Hamilton, ’30, J. Garlin Parker, ’24, Robert D. Powers,
Jr., 29, W. R. L. Taylor, ’11, Judge R. B. Spindle, Jr.,
06, Braden Vandeventer, 96, Major S. Heth Tyler,
"96.

 

NEW YORK ALUMNI TO MEET

October 15th, 1931
Dear Alumnus:

The Seventh Annual Dinner of the New York
Alumni of Washington and Lee University will be held
at 7:00 o’clock on the evening of Friday, November
13th, at the St. Regis Hotel, 55th Street and Fifth
Avenue, New York.

This will be on the eve of the Washington and
Lee—Princeton game and a large delegation is expected
from Lexington.

Mr. John W. Davis will preside.
President Gaines will speak.

Among those expected from Lexington are Frank
Gilliam, newly appointed Dean of Students, “Cy”
Young, Alumni secretary, and Dick Smith, graduate
manager of Athletics.

It is hoped that you will attend.

Return the reservation slip below, with your check
for $4.00, to the Treasurer as promptly as convenient.

Cordially yours,
THE COUNCIL

 

ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED

Mr. and Mrs. J. Harris Thompson have announced
the engagement and approaching marriage of their
daughter, Louise, to H. Gray Funkhouser of New York
City. The wedding is to be sometime this winter. Mr.
Funkhouser was formerly on the faculty of Washing-
ton and Lee and is now studying for his doctor’s degree
at Columbia University.

 

William Watson, ’29, is studying law at the Uni-
versity of Mississippi.

 

Charles F. Sherrod, ’78, is growing oranges at
Coco, Florida.

[ 13 ]

ea i TS eee

I

RP . So. OM SE AT Gb ES

 

Billy Wins Monogram by Golf Feats

 

wa|\WEEPING away the rules for an unprece-
" |dented occasion, the Washington and Lee ath-
Z \\letic council, October 7, announced that they
Ww auld award a regular monogram to Billy Howell for
his distinguished golfing exploits during the summer.

American sport fans were informed early in Sep-
tember that a Washington and
Lee student shooting
dramatically to the top in the
amateur tournament
none

 

 

 

 

Was

national
in Chicago. It was
other than Billy, a Richmond
boy, whose beautiful chip shot
stopped on the lip of the cup
on the 35th green in his semi-
final match with Francis Oui-
for Ouimet,
Ou-
met won his finals match more
~asily, and down in Virginia
the fans like to think Billy is
second only in amateur golf
to the champion Ouimet.
Billy—more
called William Richardson
Howell—s __ blond, _ slender,
good looking and 19 years old.
He

demic prodigy as well as a

met, winning

two up and one to go.

correctly

is something of an aca-

golf star, for he expects to
graduate in 1932 and was on
the Dean’s List just published
this fall. He transferred here
last year from the University
of Richmond, and is taking his
The Phi
Kappa Sigmas are making no
secret of his membership.

work in commerce.

Howell’s local golf repu-
tation began before he went
to the Beverly Club in Chica-
go. Since he-has been enroll-
ed in Washington and Lee he
has won also the Virginia state
amateur, the Middle Atlantic amateur, and the old Do-
minion tournaments. Billy has gone through it all
with becoming modesty, and recently said he most cer-
tainly would “go out for”
golf team next spring.

the Washington and Lee

The lad was given wonderful “press” all through
the event in Chicago and a big reception in Richmond
when he returned. Let some of the clippings tell it:

BILLY

 

HowELL

30bby Jones, in a syndicated article—“Billy How-
ell, the

matches today

won two
and looked like a real golfer in doing
while not getting him in trouble,
were the least bit shaky, but his iron play was suberb.

He did

19-year-old Richmond youngster,

so. His tee shots.

good days’ work this morning in beating
Johnny Goodman.”

Alan
the

“Francis Ouimet.

Gould, sportswriter

for Associated Press—
as a result
of his great comeback to re-
capture the national amateur
golf championship, has clinch-
ed the honor of being the cap-
the United States
cup team the
‘at Britain in
country, Billy
Virginia,

tain of
Walker
matches with Gr
1932 in

Howell,

for

this
Richmond,
sensation, will probably get a
berth.”
Grantland

Rice, dean of

American sportswriters—
the

last amateur championship was

“One of features of this

the poise and coolness of so

many youngsters. It was re-

markable to see such talent as

Billy Howell of Richmond,
and Paul Jackson of Kansas
City, one 19 and one 21, as
cool and calm and collected

under fire as any of the veter-
four
used his

least
Howell

in the right way,

ans. I recall at
times when
head, taking
the right club for certain dif-
ficult and baffling shots and
then playing them decisively.
This is the test of a winning
golfer—to make a decision and
still
swing is

it—not to be
the
made.” Rice goes on a little
later to say, “With the absence of Bobby Jones it was
fetl that the South had no chance, but Billy Howell, the
the Old Dominion champion,

stick to
guessing as

19-year-old Virginian,

has changed this viewpoint. For the first time in sixty-
six years, the force of the Old Dominion swept on, past
Gettysburg, on past the hill that Pickett stormed in the
most gallant charge of the war, to attack along the

(Continued on page 26)

[ 14 ]

T H E ae Po MON

—————

I

ee ee ee a ee eee

Wilson Wins Kentucky Golf Crown

sIERRY WILSON, ’27, Owensboro, Kentucky,
hi won the twenty-second annual Kentucky state
om -lamateur golfing championship played at Ft.
Mitchell, Kentucky, June 20th, 1931, when he defeated
Hugh Clines of Louisville, Ohio intercollegiate title
holder, one up, in the final 36 hole match at the Ft.
Mitchell Country Club. The
match was close throughout
and the championship was
finally decided on the thirty-
sixth hole.

Cline had 35’s on both
nines for an even par. Wil-
son took 40 on the first nine
but came back with a 34, one
under par, in the last nine.

Wilson and Cline were the
superiors of the field of 112
who started in the tournament.
In the qualifying medal play
Cline won the low honors with
146 and Wilson was second
low with 148.

Berry Wilson is the third
of four Wilson brothers from
Owensboro, all of whom have
been prominent in Washing-
ton and Lee’s social and ath-

  

 

letic life. George Wilson,
LL.B. °25, was president of

the Final Ball and a baseball
player; Henry Wilson, B.S.
‘26, quarterback football team,
serry, ‘27, and Billy, now a
sophia: and member of the
football squad.

The Messenger and In-
quirer of Owensboro, Ky.,
comments editorially :

“Our hat is off today.
“All honor to Berry Wil-
youthful new amateur
golf champion of Kentucky.
“Hail and honor to Ber-
Owensboro and Western Kentucky are proud of
his sensational victory at Ft. Mitchell yesterday. His
opponent, Hugh “Spike” Clines, Louisville, a worthy
opponent, was counted as good as “in” yesterday morn-
ing by the Louisville newspapers, but those predictions
were made without knowledge of Berry’s real ability
as a golf player.

“When Berry hit his stride, really found himself,

son,

ry!

 

BERRY WILSON c

he was complete master of the situation. His is another
demonstration of the fact that it is not necessary to re-

side in a big city to be truly grez

 

The Kentucky golf crown will rest easily on
Berry’s head. He is an unassuming youth, a mem-
ber of a family that is represented by outstanding

athletes in every line of
sport.”
NEW HOME

The new Sigma Chi fra-
ternity house on the corner o}
Lee Avenue and Washington
Street is now under construc-
tion and the
rapidly forward.
house was burned in a spec-
tacular fire on the night be-
fore Easter Sunday last spring.
The new house is of brick
and promises to be a_ hand-
some addition in this locality.

work is going

The old

 

MATTINGLY COURT

Next door to the new Sig-
ma Chi house on Jee Avenue,

Mr. EK. E. Mattingly has just
completed the enlargement and

reconstruction of the frame
house formerly occupied by
Mrs. E. D. Moore. The house
now contains four two-room
and bath apartments and one
housekeeping apartment. It
presents a most attractive
appearance in its new coat of
white stucco with black trim-
mings and green roof.

 

John Presly Thornton,
12, joined the Export De-
partment of the Standard Oil
o., of New York, in 1916,
and has since lived in the Far East. At present
manager of Socony’s Amoy Territory. Married Miss
Grace Davis in Hopkinsville, Ky., in 1926. They
have two “bouncing” baby girls—Grace, Junior, age 1
year 8 months and Christine, age 2 months.

 

Robert W. Pharr, ’29, has been practicing law in
Memphis for the past two years.

15 ]

dt ae 2 A: bo oR aN

I

, es ee ee ee ee

 

HENRY P. JOHNSTON, ’29, EDITOR

On Saturday October 10, Henry P. Johnston, B.A.
29, purchased the Huntsville, Alabama, Daily Times,
which was sold at auction. Mr. Johnston’s bid for the
paper was $44,350. The sale which was conducted at
the Madison County Courthouse, attracted a large
crowd of curious spectators.

The Huntsville Daily Times is the only newspaper
published in Madison County and is published from one
of the two 12-story buildings of the city.

Mr. Johnston will be the youngest publisher in the
state of Alabama. He is 23 years old. He is a graduate
of Culver Military Academy and Washington and Lee
University and is a member of the Alpha Tau Omega
fraternity and of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fra-
ternity.

The purchase of the Huntsville Daily Times by
Henry Johnston places one of the most important of the
smaller dailies of the state of Alabama under the man-
agement of a young man who has shown unusual prom-
ise in his chosen field of endeavor, and whose career
as a publisher will be followed with keen interest by a
wide circle of friends among the alumni of Washington
and Lee.

Mr. Johnston takes to the management of the
Times a thorough equipment gained through education
and training and a well-rounded preparation acquired
from diversified experience in newspaper work. And
above all he has those fundamental requisites of suc-
cess in any field—character and natural ability.

The Birmingham News has this to say of Mr. John-
ston:

Long before he completed his education at Wash-
ington and Lee, Henry Johnston was hard at work dur-
ing summer vacations learning the newspaper business
from the ground up. He gained his first experience
with the Montgomery Advertiser, and later he had a
rare opportunity to broaden his knowledge of the busi-
ness through a connection with the Kelly-Smith Com-
pany, of New York, one of the greatest advertising
firms of the country. Subsequently he served with
The News and The Age-Herald, whose employ he now
leaves on the acquisition of a newspaper of his own.

Mr. Johnston is to be congratulated. He has a
rich opportunity, and his friends and associates are
confident that he will make the most of it. Huntsville,
too, is to be congratulated. That city is gaining a citi-
zen of whom, we may be sure, it can be proud. First,
and all the time, Mr. Johnston is an Alabamian. As a
member of an old and prominent family of this state,
he is a good Alabamian, conscious of his state’s re-
sources and needs, and of his obligations to the com-
monwealth. Even as he is a good citizen of Alabama,
he will be a good citizen of Huntsville.

Not merely The Huntsville Times, but Alabama
journalism as a whole, will profit from the vigor and

freshness which Mr. Johnston takes to his new con-
neetion. As a nephew of Victor H. Hanson, he has a
special incentive to make a name for himself in the
newspaper world. As a member of an old Alabama
family, he will sustain its reputation for integrity and
character. And as a patriotic Alabamian, who has had
a rich opportunity to test the values of our life by his
knowledge of the larger world, he is certain to leave
nothing undone to advance our civilization and well-
being.

 

MAGAZINE FEATURES UNIVERSITY

College Stories, a Street & Smith publication, has
been featuring each month one of our American uni-
versities. September was represented by the Univer-
sity of Southern California; August by the University
of Pennsylvania; July by the University of Missouri;
June by Dartmouth College; May by University of
Notre Dame; October by Syracuse University, and the
November issue by Washington and Lee University.

The feature article is written by Richard B. Sale,
'34, now a student in the School of Journalism at Wash-
ington and Lee. It is illustrated by a full-page wood-
cut of the grounds and buildings and the crest of the
University. The magazine also carries a page of the
songs of Washington and Lee and all of the college
yells.

The article in question is well written and covers
practically every phase of student life at Washington
and Lee; its history, physical aspects, location and en-
vironment; and gives an excellent picture of campus
interests and activities.

 

DANIELSON—FRANCKEN

On Saturday, October 10, at Duluth, Minn., Miss
Carolyn Isabel Francken, of De Pere, Wisconsin, and
George N. Danielson, of Duluth, were united in mar-
riage with Rev. Joseph A. Cashen officiating.

The bride is a graduate of St. Joseph’s Hospital
Training School for Nurses, Milwaukee, Wis., and the
groom is a graduate of the Law Department of Wash-
ington and Lee University of Lexington, Va. (Class
of 1917).

Mr. and Mrs. Danielson left on a trip to West
Virginia, Virginia and Washington, D. C., after which
they will make their home in Duluth where the groom
is Divisional Director of Naturalization.

Mr. and Mrs. Danielson were recent visitors at
the Alumni Office.

 

W. D. McSween, ’98, is practicing law at Newport,
Tenn. Mr. McSween is also president of the Mer-
chants and Planters Bank of Newport.

 

L,. T. Davis, 14, is head of the Latin Department
of the E. C. Glass High School, Lynchburg, Virginia.

[ 16 ]

 

T Wao

aA oe ae NS

OA ae a on ee

 

———

1931 Generals Hopeful at Mid-Season

   
 
    

= |OUR games of a hard ten-game schedule have
F and the 1931 com-
5 |Imission of Generals has tasted victory and

as this is written

 

21) | passed

 

A a.

“

crushing defeat.

Hampden-Sydney was soundly beaten at Lynch-

burg September 26, then followed a
heartbreaking defeat by Davidson here
7 to 0, a rout by Kentucky’s long runs
45 to 0, and a well-fought loss to West
Virginia at Charleston 19 to 0. The
Virginia game and homecoming is re-
ported elsewhere in this issue.

That makes it five games gone and
five to go. William and Mary, Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, Princeton,
Maryland and Duke are yet to be met
in that order. The Duke game here,
November 28, is the only home game
which remains.

The half-way mark finds Coach
Jimmy DeHart’s team of half sopho-
mores improving every Saturday, and
with a good chance to balance their
early season defeats with victories on
Morale, which al-
ways shows up in the score, is strong
on Wilson Field, and the 28 lads who

the home stretch.

have varsity uniforms are never licked for long.
To start at the beginning, last year’s squad of 46

Exactly 34 failed

disappeared in unheard of numbers.
to return for one reason or another.

Initiating Coach DeHart’s new system, Collins, Sawyers
and Martin in the first quarter carried the ball from
their own twelve yard line over the enemy goal, Collins

making the counter on a two-yard plunge and plunging

again for the extra point.

 

 

 

 

 

Jimmy

The freshman

all that proved necessary to win 7 to 0.
muffed a couple of scoring chances in the first half,
which ended O to 0.

Then came the big scoring
quarter of the season. ‘Three passes,
Martin to Collins, Martin to Sawyers,
and Wilson to Almon, penetrated the
Hampden-Sydney defense for three
touchdowns. In the third period Bo
Wilson bucked over the final tally, and
from then on the Washington and Lee
substitutes were held by the stubborn
Tiger defense.

Martin was injured late in the
second period, and the team didn’t
work so smoothly without the Balti-
Monk Mat-
tox was kept on the bench to favor his

more lad to call signals.

knee, which had been hurt in practice.
The punting of Bailey, who is co-cap-
tain with Mitchell, was another feature
of the game.

The following week a very good
Davidson team, much underrated, came
The North Carolinians
had lots of fight and a good punter—
The Generals

to Lexington.

In the third quarter Davidson re-

 

 

 

 

STEVENS ~ QUARTERBACK

team was good, but
small, with the re-
sult that the coach-
es are working with
the smallest squad
in the country.
Only 22 men took
the Kentucky trip,
and any Saturday
now one can find
five, six or seven
sophomores _ play-
ing on the Generals
eleven at a time.
After three
weeks of early
practice, the Wash-
ington and _ Lee
eridders invaded
Lynchburg to meet
Hampden - Sydney.

covered Mattox’s fumble on his 20-yard line, and

promptly ran the
end for a_touch-
down. Maddened,
the Generals three
times launched of-
fensives only to
have them fall
short of the goal.
Davidson, punted
to safety each time,
once when the ball
was brought to
their 6-yard line.
Nace Collins
and Gene Martin
on these three
looked like
world-beaters,  re-
peatedly making
five, eight and
yards, but

drives

twelve

[ 17 ]

 

 

 

BOhAND — GUARD

eee A ee A aN

passes deep into the enemy territory failed. The Gen-
erals scored 14 first downs to Davidson’s 4.

Then came the terrific Kentucky defeat. The 45
to O score does not tell the story. It was one of the
freakiest—though well earned—victories in football his-
tory. Individual brilliance won for the Wildcats, who
made only nine first downs—no two _ successive—in
scoring their 45 counters. The Generals, who looked
so bad on the scoreboard, made seven first downs and
took the ball on downs several times.

Knowing that the odds were on Kentucky, the
Generals started with a rush, gambling to score first.
A dazzling series of passes, mostly Bailey to Martin,
carried the ball from
the first kick-off to the
Kentucky

 

 

ten-yard
line, first down. Here
Kelly intercepted the
next pass and ran 96
yards to a touchdown.
The didn’t
give up, and threaten-
ed again. But more
passes were intercept-
ed and_ Kentucky
scored six more touch-
four of them
coming on runs of 80,
71, 70 and 47 yards.
The Generals once
held the Wildcats for
three plays on their
yard line, and
again, when the Wild-
cats had a first down
the Washington
and Lee three, it took
them four plays to get

Generals

downs,

 

SIX

on

I

 

MA 6 ASS TON Se
tackle. Tilson was removed from end to his last
year’s spot—guard. Bailey, Collins, Mattox and Saw-
yers started behind the line.

The game began hopefully with both teams fight-
ing hard before the usual capacity crowd of supporters.
The first quarter went scoreless with Washington and
Lee having the edge, although they made few first
downs with Bailey “quick kicking’’ often on the first
down. Collins once intercepted a pass and sprinted 50
yards to the enemy 23-yard mark, but here other passes
failed.

Early in the second period West Virginia passed to
score, and the half ended seven to zero. Just before
the gun Washington
and Lee seemed to be
on the way to a goal,

 

having a first down on
the Mountaineers’ 30
and completing a pass
for seven yards just
as the period ended.
As the third
quarter neared its
close, West Virginia
made an excellent lat-

 

eral pass to score
again. Their final
tally which brought

the score to 19 to O,
came just before the
end of the game.
when Marker ran 53
yards off tackle to a
touchdown. In_ the
second half the Gen-
erals repeatedly
threatened, fumbling
once on the first down

 

COLLINS 0

 

at fourth down
the Wildcats having
been pushed back to the eight yard line.

In this game the giant veteran Bailey, nominally a
tackle, spent most of his time in the backfield and
emerged as a triple threat artist. In addition to punting,
he was called out of the line to pass, and to buck. The
West Virginia game the following week at Charleston
found him halfback permanently on offense, at tackle
on defense, with the other co-captain, Pat Mitchell,
leaving his post at center to back up the line.

The next week the coaches and the squad worked
long and tirelessly to correct the errors of the Kentucky
game. Coach DeHart experimented a little with a
different line-up, and put an eleven on the field at
Charleston which—in defeat—was far from disgraced.
Its showing was encouraging. ‘Two sophomores, Han-
ley and Mosovich, were given the call at ends for the
first time, and Nesbitt, a veteran lineman, placed at

over

 

SAWYER- on West Virginia’s

11-yard mark.

The play of the Generals forward wall was a big
feature of the game, the lads in blue and white getting
much the best of their heavier opponents. ‘Time and
again the Mountaineers were thrown for losses. Just
before Marker made their last touchdown, the Generals
had a long completed pass called back offside, and twice
in the shadow of their goal long passes barely grazed
Mattox’ finger tips.

Believe it or not, everyone who saw the Generals
defeated by the Mountaineers felt encouraged. It seem-
ed that they earned at least one touchdown, and their
all-round play had markedly improved. Two sopho-
more backs, Bo Wilson and Frank Almon, performed
creditably when they wer« injected into the fray. Green
men are taking on a seasoned mien, and the tricky De-
Hart offense seems to be grooving itself, and will soon
be working in fine shape.

[ 18 ]

 

YAN

A. ids

W. and L.
Virginia

I

SCORE

6 0 6 6—18
00 0 OO

m.A Gc

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eta eee!

 

 

 

 

BACOA/ - FA/D

In a gridiron battle so satisfactory as the piece de
resistance of homecoming that it might have been pre-
conceived in the dreams of a ‘00 alumnus, the Generals
overwhelmed the Cavaliers October 24 before thous-
ands of proud followers by a score of 18 to 0.

Hundreds of returned graduates, hundreds of stu-
dents who had never witnessed a victory over Virginia,
and thousands of
others thrilled to the
toes in the enlarged
steel stands on Wil-
son Field as a heads-
up Generals eleven
tallied three soul sat-
isfying touchdowns
on runs of 31, 36,
and 92 yards.

Victory was
sweet, and few of
the spectators pres-
ent failed to appre-
ciate the drama of
the situation. Here
was a Washington
and Lee eleven
which started the
season under handi-
caps which few in
its history have had.
Here was a Wash-
ington and Lee squad

 

 

 

 

GROvE - TACKLE

STEVI S$ -CENTER

HANLEY -END

incredibly depleted by graduation and filled in to the ex-
tent of 28 men by a few stalwart but unseasoned soph-
Here was a coach, returning to Washington
a coach whose

omores.
and Lee to work under these difficulties
teams under a former regime at the University had
never been defeated by Virginia. Here were seniors
watching the fray, and graduates of the three previous
years, who had seen
nothing but defeat
from the Cavaliers.
The students’ desire
to win was so intense
that they almost had
tears in their eyes as
they watched an elev-
en from Charlottes-
ville march on the
field, an eleven which
—during their
school careers—had
repeatedly taken ad-
vantage of the breaks
to vanquish the Gen-
erals, often upset-
ting the dope to do
it.

 

 

 

 

“The Swing”
was sung, and Wash-
ington and Lee was
ready to kick off.
On the Blue and

 

 

NESBITT - GU4kOD

[ 19 ]

hs
White eleven were
starting six sopho-
mores—men who in
their first collegiate
: competition this
saad x # year had just suffer-
: ed bitter defeats at
the hands of two
large state universi-
yty teams.  Bailey’s
foot resounded on
? the pigskin. Two
Virginia _ backs
started toward it,
‘and in one of those
: absurd plays seldom
seen on the gridiron,
both let it pass,
i thinking the other
& would take it. The
: ball rolled to the
| three yard line,
ees <8 6 Seen where Thomas _re-
TILSON - END trieved it and ran

back three or four

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

yards before being tackled.

Thomas punted out and the Generals tried to make
a first down and missed by inches on the Virginia 31
yard line. ‘The Cavaliers run two plays, and Thomas’
long punt was permitted to roll dead on W. and L.’s 10
yard line. Mattox took the ball four times, Bailey
once, for two first downs. A yard short after three
plays, Bailey punted to Thomas, and the Cavalier star
was stopped almost dead. A Virginian had clipped
from behind, and the penalty took the ball to their
seven yard line. ‘Thomas punted again, and when Vir-
ginia stiffened, Bail-
ey kicked to their
two yard line. Thom-
as punted to his 30
mark, and on _ the
first play Sawyers
ran to the 21 yard
line, but W. and IL.
was penalized 15
yards for shoving.
They were lined up
right in front of the
stands, and on the
first play Joe Saw-
yers took the ball and
with formidable in-
terference headed
around left end.
Crossing the field
to speed around the
flankman, Joe a hun-

 

 

2S Ae ee a

Ms A: Gi Acod. ft: ieee

dred yard dash man,
finally cut in and
headed for the near
corner of the field.
By sheer speed he
reached it untouch-
ed while the stands
roared their approv-
al with unleashed
tension. Bailey tried
to buck for the extra
point and failed.

Virginia receiv-
ed again, but Thom-
as had to punt. As
Mattox carried the
ball to the center of
the field and Bailey
bucked for a first
down, the quarter #
ended. Bailey and
Mattox missed by
inches another first
down on the Virginia
40. With a pass and
two bucks the Cavaliers got a first down in midfield.
But here they had to punt. On the first play, Sawyers
ran 19 yards to his own 44 yard mark. Mattox gain-
ed seven yards in three plays and Bailey punted. With
a pass and a buck Virginia made it first down on their
own 43. Here, discouraged already at trying to rush
the sturdy Generals’ wall of four sophomires and three
veterans, Thomas passed again and Bo Wilson inter-
cepted in midfield.

Bailey had to punt, and Thomas’ returning punt was
short. A lateral pass | 7
to Sawyers and a
buck by Bailey made
it first down on the
Virginia 25. Saw-
yers ran to the 19,
but from here a
pass by Bailey went
in touchback. Start-
ing on their own 20,
Virginia tried a pass
as the last seconds of
the period flew by
and Mattox inter-
cepted the ball and
returned to the Vir-
ginia 15. Almon,
subbing for Sawyers,

 

 

 

AL MON - HALFBACK

on the 10 yard line
as the half ended.
Between halves

 

 

MITCHELL. - CENTER

[ 20 ]

 

the crowd was thrilled but restless. They knew the
team had turned the corner. They knew the sopho-
mores were playing like veterans. But they knew, too,

that six points was a slim lead in a Virginia game and
that anything might be expected from the Cavaliers.
Would one

Would the touted Thomas break loose?
of their devilishly long passes succeed,
and would they kick goal? It was tense
again as the second half began.

Kdgar returned Bailey’s kick-off to
his 30. After three plays Mattox let
Meyers’ kick roll to his 37 yard line.
Bailey's punt from here was a little
short, and the perilous Thomas return-
ed to Washington and Lee’s 45. After
two plays which made four yards the
stands drew in a quick breath as Wash-
ington and Lee was penalized 15 yards,
probably for holding, giving the Cav-
aliers a first down on the Generals 26
marker. Two yards through the line.
Myers stepped back and curved the
pigskin through the air into the arms
of Condon, waiting end, who was

I

 

me A GS A SD Uo Oe ee

team lined up again. One man stayed behind the cen-
ter. Three other backs took positions by the left side
line, just behind the line of scrimmage. It looked like
an old Michigan play in which the back act as decoys
and the right end comes back sneaking behind the line
to receive the pass in about the spot where the left end
lined up.

The ball was snapped. W. and L.
linemen rushed in and hurried Thomas
who was trying to pass. Sure enough,
the Virginia right end was jockeying
backward in position to receive the
Thomas tossed it, barely

the blue-clad
The right end

short throw.
clearing the hands of
who would block it.

stretched his arms, and in front of him
Tilson,

well-coached ‘Tex

Tilson took the ball

strode the
veteran guard.
out of the air and as the linemen who
were in on the play blocked Thomas
out of it, Tilson started for the goal
92 yards away. I[dgar, fast Cava-
lier back, took up the pursuit, but was
nudged away by the Generals who

 

tackled after he had made a first down

on the W. and L. 14 marker.

The spectators were on the edges of their seats
Could this be halted? “Hold ’em,” they yelled.

Myers made a yard through the stubborn line. He

made two more. After a long huddle the offensive

now.

 

 

 

- Se

 

 

 

BALEN - GUARD

(Continued on page 28)

came along as convoy, while the stands
went into a paroxysm of glee.

Mattox missed his attempt to place kick for the
extra point, and-the scorer marked 12 to 0.

sailey’s kickoff traveled 75 yards, behind the goal
posts. Edgar found a hole to run 17 yards for a first

 

oka ee

 

 

MARTIN — HALFBACK

 

MUSOVITCH- END

[ 21 ]

Bm:

Ae Se eee AN

M A -@G AZ ti Soe

1931 Freshmen Look Promising

By WALLACE WERBLE, °33

 
   

HERE is a possibility when the 1932 edition
: of the Generals line up against the traditional
foe, one year hence, there will be several new

faces on the team. ‘These new faces will be picked
from the freshman squad of 1931, consisting of thirty
men, from eleven different states in the union.

Seven men of the 1931 squad hail from the state
of Virginia; four each from West Virginia and Ten-
nessee; and three each from Florida, Arkansas, and
Kentucky. Eight members of the squad attended some
preparatory school; three of these claiming Fishburn
Military Academy as their Alma Mater. Of the twenty-
two that came directly from high school, two each were
given to the squad by Charleston High School, Charles-
ton, West Virginia, and Owensburg High School,
Owensburg, Ky.

Sam Mattox, fullback, and one of those who at-
tended Fishburn Military Academy, is the fourth Mat-
tox who has donned pigskin togs for the Blue and
White in the past decade. Members and coaches of
both squads perceive a dramatic situation during scrim-
mages between the Freshmen and Varsity when Mattox
IV of the Freshmen is called upon to stop Mattox III
of the Varsity on one of his long jaunts down the field
as varsity halfback.

The squad this year is rather light for college
football; the thirty men of the squad make an average
weight of one hundred sixty-five pounds. The linemen
average one hundred and seventy-three pounds, and
the backfieldmen average one hundred and fifty pounds.
However, Coach Cy Young can manage to keep a hun-
dred and eighty pound line and a hundred and sixty
pound backfield on the gridiron at all times.

What they lack in weight they make up in willing-
ness and spirit. To quote Coach Young, following
their initial contest, in which they outplayed a Roanoke
College Junior Varsity for a thirteen to nothing victory,
“They are as a whole, the most savage bunch of tacklers
that I have ever witnessed during my entire football
career. Several of the boys, on the line, C. Smith and
Ruffner in particular, spent a major portion of the af-
ternoon in the enemies’ backfield. ‘They couldn’t just
gain through our line, which is very good on the defen-
sive due to our many scrimmages with the varsity.

Although the starting freshman lineup is by no
means a definite matter, for every man on the squad was
inserted into the Roanoke game, there are several men
on the team that appeared to excell to the casual observ-
er. Among the linemen, Mendolia, guard, Ruffner, cen-
ter, Smith, end and Martin, guard, appear as men who
will give battle for varsity positions next year. Mendal-

io, the heaviest man in the line was the bulwark of
strength in the center of the forward wall and recover-
ed several fumbles.

Mattox IV, Seaton, Todd, and Henthorne were the
backfieldmen who gained most of the yardage. It was
Mattox who bore the brunt of the line plunging attack
that took the ball from the forty yard stripe to the goal
line for the first score; it was Todd’s fifty yard return

 

MEMBERS OT THE FRESHMAN SQUAD

Name Pos. Wt. Prep. School
McDonald End 151 Memphis University School
Fox End 171 Valley Forge. Mil. Academy

Smith, C. End 175
Colinsky End 165
Turpin End 155

Lee High School
Maury High School
Shenandoah Valley Acad.

Hayes End 150 El Dorado High School
Dyer Tackle 193 Johnson High School
Mendalio ‘Tackle 200 Camden High School

Rice Tackle 200 Portsmouth High School
Carmen Tackle 185 Mt. Hope High School
Martin Tackle 180 John Marshall High School
Gerber Guard 185 Erasmus High School
Dozier Guard 160 Frank Union Mil. Academy
Smith Guard 150 Little Rock High School
Ruffner Center 175 Charleston High School
Glynn Center 175 Fishburn Mil. Academy
Seaton Quarter 150 Charleston High School
Todd Quarter 155 Lakeland High School
Jones Quarter 155 Cleveland High School
Hobert Quarter 150 Fort Smith High School

Henthorne Full 175
Mattox Full 155
Nash Full 165
Medley Half 170
Hamilton Half 150
Laugh Half 155
Fields Half 150
Taylor Halt - 133
Campbell Half 145
Woolrich Half 145

Ashland High School
Fishburn Mii. Academy
Spartanburg High School
Owensburg High School
Owensburg High School
Fishburn Mil. Academy
Miami High School
Greenbrier Mil. Academy
Lexington High School
Bluefield High School

 

of a punt behind splendid interference late in the fourth
quarter that accounted for the second score; it was
Laugh who made the second longest run of the game,
when he took the ball on the twenty-five yard line and
was forced out of bounds on the one yard line; and it
was Seaton’s field generalship and consistent ground
gaining that kept the ball deep in the visitors’ territory.

The lot of the Freshman football squad at any
school is not an easy one. Each week there is a new

[ 22 ]

 

- Hos i ae ee. IM
system of play to be learned; each week the squad must
take the meager information of the scouts and round it
into an offensive that resembles the coming enemies
system to some degree; but in addition to that Cy
Young and his corps of assistants have been successful
in teaching the new DeHart style of play to their men.
Next year when they try out for the varsity they will
have one year’s experience in this new innovation so
far as football offenses are concerned.

“This is one of the headiest bunch of boys that
have ever donned football togs,” further quoted Coach
Young. “It is remarkable how these boys who came
from all parts of the country, playing all kinds of foot-
ball, should be able to pick up a new type of play and
show so much team-work, after so little practice.”

This is the first year of the new DeHart system.
To date it has suffered three defeats. And yet, on the
campus, not one of these defeats have been considered
disgraceful. It is the general opinion that the team
will yet take a brace on life and defeat several of the
traditional rivals, turning this into a successful season.

But today is almost spent; we must think of to-
morrow! The supporters of Washington and Lee are
finding a mountain of solace and hope in the 1931 edi-
tion of the Baby Generals, out of which many football
giants are expected to arise, and pick up the burden of
carrying the Blue and White after the men graduate
from the 1931 Varsity eleven.

The Freshmen teams of today are the Varsity
teams of tomorrow!

 

OUR NEW STADIUM

No longer will alumni return to Lexington to see
a football game on Wilson Field and miss part of the
action of the gridiron. Those anxious glances for
the strength of the grandstand will be removed and
change into smiles—for a new steel stadium has been
completed.

Ramps and cement steps invite the crowd into the
stands and there are comfortable wooden seats that
will “hold everything” even when the alumnus must
stamp his feet or jump on the seats to follow an excit-
ing play—just before, perhaps, the deciding quarter.
Row after row, the new stadium will seat approximately
7,500 persons. There is an adequate enclosed press
box at the top for visiting newspaper writers equipped
with telephone and telegraph outlets.

At the first home game many visitors were pleased
with the promenade back of the stands where the stu-
dents can greet friends and alumni make new acquaint-
ances between the halves. Every seat is a good one,
and in planning the stadium Capt. Dick Smith, grad-
uate manager of athletics, has kept in mind that Wash-
ington and Lee sometime may need a larger bowl—so
segments may be added to it without altering its ap-
pearance.

I

ea SoS: 4S. ee ae

Painted battleship gray, it is a first-class grand-
stand—but it is more attractive when dotted with stu-
dents, their friends and escorts.

In the center below the press box, is the Universi-
ty guest box where President Francis Pendleton Gaines |
can entertain distinguished visitors at a game. All im-
provements were made this summer and the field, too,
was dressed up for the fall campaign. When completed
the stadium project will cost approximately $45,000 of
which $35,000 has been spent. ‘The money is to be rais-
ed by subscription and gate receipts. Governor John
G. Pollard, who presided at the Cyrus Hall McCormick
memorial ceremonies, showed hts interest in General
athletics by pledging $250 to the stadium project.

Washington and Lee alumni will have every rea-
son to be proud of the new stadium and will be eager to
see it this fall. Capacity crowds are expected for the
Virginia and Duke games—but there are always tem-
porary bleachers to take care of the overflow.

 

MASSILLON MILLER HEUSER, LL.B. ’29.

Massillon Miller Heuser, LL.B. ’29, is known to
citizens of Norton, Virginia, as_ their only unmar-
ried city father.

Mass left the Southwest Virginia coal fields long
enough to study law most effectively at Washington and
Lee and returned to his native hills and hollows in
June, 1929, with an LL.B. and a Phi Beta Kappa key.

Today he is a member of the town council, is coun-
ty chairman of the Democratic party, and has never
known a day as a briefless barrister.

Those who knew him at college are certain Mass’
successes are not flashes in the pan, but mere forerun-
ners to what is bound to come to a fellow of his sort.
Keen witted, dryly humorous, honorable and personable,
he is the chap people really have in mind when they
speak of “ a promising young man.”

At Washington and Lee he was president of his
fraternity, Pi Kappa Alpha, but did not pursue col-
legiate honors with avidity, claiming allegiance only to
P. K. A., the Democratic party and the Presbyterian
Church. He is credited with having invented the
descriptive term: “furtive key-laden campus leaders.”

Politics has fallen into a disreputable condition in
the United States, and to some extent, in Virginia, but
men like Mass Heuser will not only make the situation
more creditable but vastly entertaining.

 

Edward Stonestreet Lamar, ’25, has recently been
made Associate Professor of Physics at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

 

Everett M. Greer,’14, formerly of Newport, Tenn.,
is now governor of U. S. Soldier’s Home, Johnson
City, Tenn.

[ 23 ]

ee wee aN 2

mA GUA 2 ft he

Davis Praises Small College

NSWERVING faith in the small college was
UF expressed by John W. Davis of New York,
Democratic presidential nominee of 1924, fol-
lowing an informal dinner of the Washington and Lee
Club of Richmond at the Commonwealth Club at 6:30
o'clock, September 22nd.

It was not for him, Mr. Davis said, to decry the
worth of the great imstitutions with their enormous
faculties and their thousands of students. ‘They unde-
niably had their place in the educational life of. America.
But as for his alma mater—he was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1895—he wanted it to remain
moderately small. It had given great men to the
nation, he believed, because it offered them the oppor-
tunity for intimate association with the men who taught
them as well as with their fellow students.

Mr. Davis was the guest of honor and principal
speaker at the meeting of the club. At the table with
him were George C. Peery, member of the State Cor-
poration Commission and president of the club, who
presided; Dr Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee; Harry St. George Tucker, Con-
gressman from the Tenth Virginia District; Stuart
Gibboney of New York, a native Virginian and mem-
ber of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation
which is responsible for the preservation of ‘“Monti-
cell” as a national shrine; Major Edward Knight of
New York, also of the foundation; Jo Lane Stern,
Brigadier-General S. Gardner Waller, adjutant-gen-
eral of Virginia, and Robert Tunstall, a University of
Virginia alumnus who holds an honorary degree from
Washington and Lee. |

Whether deliberately or not, serious discussion of
national politics was avoided throughout the evening.
Mr. Tucker remarked that the Democratic leaders, hav-
ing once made Mr. Davis the party standard bearer,
were apparently considering another Washington and
Lee man, Newton D. Baker, for the job in case Mr.
Roosevelt didn’t get the nomination. And Mr. Gib-
boney said he agreed with Mr. Davis that Jefferson was
the ablest man that ever held the presidency, adding:
“But I think Mr. Davis the ablest man ever defeated
for the presidency.” Aside from this, the political situ-
ation was not mentioned.

Extraordinary tribute to Dr. Gaines, Washington
and Lee president for the last year, was paid by every
speaker, including Mr. Davis. A great future for the
University under his administration was predicted. Mr.
Peery introduced Dr. Gaines who in turn presented
Mr. Davis.

The former ambassador to Great Britain, having
made a serious address at the unveiling of the Jefferson

 
  

bust at the Capitol in the afternoon, was in informal
mood as well as attire last night. His talk consisted
chiefly of reminiscences of student days in Lexington,
and of ancedotes until he began to speak of the value
of the small college.

He went down to William and Mary for the first
time yesterday, he said, and was much impressed by it.
It had contributed many very great names to the. na-
tion’s honor roll, he went on, adding however, that it
had done so at a time when it was so small it would
hardly be recognized as a college now.

It was not so much what you learned at college—
he remembered practically nothing he had been taught
there—it was the inspiration deriving from the close
contact with “‘grand old’”’ professors and the friend-
ships formed among the students, influences which
lasted a man throughout his life, that was of the ut-
most importance.

He did not covet the unmistakable evidences of
physical expansion at William and Mary, he declared,
but he did covet the benefactor who had made much
of this expansion possible. He hoped that some day a
rich man would give Washington and Lee enough to
meet its needs, to give it ‘ease and comfort,” but he
wanted Washington and Lee to remain always a small
college.

Honor guests and alumni present:

Wm. T. Reed, Richmond manufacturer and finan-
cier. Holder of honorary degree from Washington
and Lee.

Robert Tunstall, prominent Richmond lawyer and
holder of honorary degree from Washington and Lee.

Hon. Harry St. George Tucker, nationally known
Virginian and congressman for the Tenth Virginia
District.

Col. John W. Williams, clerk of Virginia House
of Delegates and member of the Governor’s Staff.

Gen. §. Gardner Waller adjutant-general of
Virginia.

Major Edw. Knight, of New York, vice-president
of the committee of French Citizens, donating the
Jefferson bust to the State of Virginia, and also vice-
president of the French Steamship Line.

Stuart Gibboney, of New York, nationally known
Virginian and president of the Thomas Jefferson
Memorial Foundation, which Foundation is responsible
for the preservation of Monticello as a national shrine.

Dr. Gaines, president of the University, and

Mr. Davis.

Allen, Clyde, N., Anderson, Henry W.

Bailey, E. G., Beveridge, S. T., Beverley, W. W.,

[ 24 ]

- ee

——

Birnie, Jos. E., Blair, D. John R., Bostwick, mt.
Bristow, E. M.

Caldwell, L. C., Campbell, Robert, Carson, Dr.
\W. L., Clower, Joseph, Cogbill, John V., Cole, R. W.,
Coleman, A. R., Conrad, Col. Bryan, Cummins, J. A.

Davis, Jas. T.

Epes, Judge Louis S.

Faison, John D., Fowlkes, Dr. Richard W., Ful-
ton, M. 7:

Grant, R. P.

Hamilton, Chas. H., Haw, Geo. E., Hodges, Col.
LeRoy, Hooker, H. L., Houser, Dr. A. A., Hutcheson,
Dr. J. Morrison.

Jackson, F. Bruce, Jewett, Carlton E., Johnson,
Jesse M., Johnston, M. C., Jordan, R. W. Jr.

Kidd, Willard C., Kirkpatrick, Hugh W.

Larrick, Jonah, Leake, D. H., Lewis, V. Irving,
Liebert, Dr. H. S. .

Mason, Dr. W. L., Miller, J. Maurice, Miller, Wil-
lis, D., Morrissett, C. H., Moss, C. W.

Peery, Judge Geo. C., Phillips, Chas. H., Pope, W.
M., Price, Jas. H.

Richardson, F. Briggs, Riggs, Geo. §., Rosebro,
Dr. B. M.

Sale, Gen. W. W., Sanders, Stuart, III, Sharove,
Joseph, Simpson, Dr. Richard L., Stern, Jo Lane,
Stone, Harry O., Stoneburner, Dr. L. T., Stumpf,
Otto M.

Thompson, Roy D., Thurston, W. P., Tucker,
J. Randolph.

Wash, Dr. Atwood M., Wickham, Hon. H. T..,
Williams, Dr. Jas. N., Wilson, W. O., Wiltshire, Matt,
Witt, Hugh M.

Yonan, Norman M., Younge, Samuel H.

 

HUNTINGTON, W. VA. ALUMNI MEET

Mr. Harry K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

My dear “Cy”:

The Alumni of Washington and Lee in Hunt-
ington had a meeting on September 12, 1931, in this
City, at which said meeting an Alumni Association was
formed electing as officers thereof :

W. T. Lovins, President.
Selden S. McNeer, Vice-President.
Joseph W. Fitchett, Secretary-Treasurer.

At this meeting it was also decided that there
should be an Executive Committee of ten members and
in addition thereto the above elected officers to be mem-
bers thereof as ex-officio.

It gives me great pleasure to further advise
you that at this meeting Joe Silverman, 1326 Fifth Ave-
nue, Huntington, West Virginia, was awarded the

Be ee ee ae

om. Re ae en

Alumni scholarship from Huntington to the Universi-
ty.
Assuring you the loyal support of this Alumni
Association, I am
Very sincerely yours,
JosEpH W. FircHerr,
Secretary-Treasurer.

The following alumni were present:

W. J. Williamson "29 Huntington, W. Va.
E. W. MacCorkle, Jr. °26 Ashland, Ky.
Eugene Johnson 31 Huntington, W. Va.
G. W. Keller 04 Huntington, W. Va.
Philip P. Gibson 13, °15- Huntington, W. Va.
R. P. Asbury 23 Huntington, W. Va.
Ira P. Baer ‘06 Huntington, W. Va.
W. P. Hooper 08 Huntington, W. Va.
W. T. Lovins 14 Huntington, W. Va.
A. W. Mann "15 Ashland, Ky.

H. H. Darnall 07 Huntington, W. Va.
Herbert Fitzpatrick ‘92,’23. Huntington, W. Va.
James E. Moore "19 Huntington, W. Va.
T. J. C. Mayo "27 Ashland, Ky.

Jack Frost ‘26 Huntington, W. Va.
J. F. Stother ‘21 Ashland, Ky
Houston Laird "24 Huntington, W. Va.
R. E. Beuhring 14 Huntington, W. Va.
Melville Dunn ZS Huntington, W. Va.
Joe W. Dingess ‘21 Huntington, W. Va.
E. H. Long 21 Huntington, W. Va.
Selden S. McNeer "16 Huntington, W. Va.
G. D. Mayor ‘26 Huntington, W. Va.
John T. McVay "25 Huntington, W. Va.
W. Roy Campbell "19 Huntington, W. Va.
Cy Young 17 Lexington, Va.

Joe Fitchett "24 Huntington, W. Va.
Wm. MacCorkle ‘06 Charleston, W. Va.

Frances Pendleton Gaines, President, lexington, Va.

 

NEW DIVIDEND

Another announcement which has been received
with much interest by friends in Lexington, is of the
birth on September 17, of a son to Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam L. Mapel, at Maryville, Mo. Maryville is the
home of Mrs. Mapel’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Lakin Raines, where Mrs. Mapel has been since May.

Mr. Mapel is now assistant editor of the American
Boy Magazine, Detroit, Mich.

The new branch of the Mapel tree has been named
Marlen Raines. ‘This is the sceond child in the family,
the little daughter, Evelyn Louise, being now four
years old.

 

Tom Pitts, °17, is in the Feed, Grain and Coal
business at his home in Indianola, Miss.

 

Tom Menefee, ’25, is practicing law in San An-
tonio, Texas.

[ 25 ]

E38) .B: A L

BILLY WINS MONOGRAM
(Continued from page 14)

northern front. When young Howell came to Chicago
it was the first time he had been further north than
Baltimore, but the ghosts of Lee, Jackson and Stuart
were riding with him as he eliminated Johnny Goodman
in the forenoon and then stopped Owen Covey, of Salt
Lake, in the afternoon with a fine display of golf.
In spite of his youth and his lack of tournament ex-
perience, he came along with a sound swing, a cool
head and a stout heart to stop two of the best match-
play campaigners in the field.

The New York Times carried the following “Spec-
ial’ —‘‘In Billy Howell the galleries at the national ama-
teur open found a new hero. A splendid shot maker,
a wonderful example of the teaching precept of taking
the club back on the side, Howell has established him-
self as a player who will bear future watching. Only
nineteen and a junior at Washington and Lee, Howell
this year won the State, the Middle Atlantic and the
Old Dominion titles, beating Phillip Perkins in a twen-
ty-one hole semi-final match in the last mentioned event.
The Richmond, Va., star is a slender youth who hits
the ball a long way off the tee and is an expert
mashie-niblick player. He has been winning tourna-
ments ever since he was sixteen, capturing his first
State title at that tender age.”

To quote the Richmond Times-Dispatch—*Rich-
mond turned out with a band yesterday to greet Billy
Howell, the boy wonder of golf and to give him a
double-barreled welcome home from the national ama-
teur tournament at Chicago where he went down to
glorious defeat in the semi-finals. In addition to a
rhetorical crown of laurel presented by the Governor
of Virginia and Mayor Bright and others, the wel-
come included such tangible evidences of enthusiasm as
a silver service, a brown and tan automobile and a life
membership in a golf club. . . . ‘Oh I thought the fam-
ily would come to meet me but I didn’t expect all of
this’, was the modest comment of the 19-year-old golf-
er... . The tribute even the Prince of Wales couldn’t
spurn came from a high school girl who gazed at the
bronzed boy and remarked to a companion who was
carrying books, ‘No, I don’t want to try and meet him.
I’d rather stand here and just look at him.’ Heavy
sunburn hid the blushes.”

John Garland Pollard, of Virginia, said, “Virginia
has furnished men prominent in many fields of en-
deavor. There was Washington in war, Jefferson in
statesmanship, Marsha'l in jurisprudence, Walter Reed
in medicine and now Howell in golf. The last is not
an anticlimax because this boy has some of the same
qualities of other great Virginians, who practiced self-
discipline and _ self-sacrifice—the price of success in
any field.”

John Kieran in the New York Times—‘Heard that

wa N 8

i. A Ge: we ee ee
a toddling infant from Virginia was matching John
Goodman stride for stride and putt for putt in the first
round of the match play. Catch sight of a slim, blond
Billy Howell killing off Goodman on the seventeenth
green, demonstrating that a lad who looks like a cherub
may putt like a demon. . . , Billy Howell, 1 down and
2 to go against Francis Ouimet, putting his tee shot
into a trap at the short seventeenth and then almost
holing out out of the trap. Ouimet rapping an eigh-
teen foot putt into the cup for a birdie, so smoothly
and quickly that the gallery couldn’t realize the match
was over.”

Francis Powers in the New York Sun—‘‘Ouimet
only won his way to the finals after a terrific battle
with young Billy Howell of Richmond, Va. Howell
was the sensation of the tournament and thousands in
the gallery, not sensing the drama of Ouimet’s great
come-back were pulling for the flaxen-haired Virginian
to win. Had Howell reached the finals, he would
have accomplished a feat duplicated only by Watts
Gunn and Bob Gardner, who reached the climatic round
in their championship debuts.”

O. B. Keeler, a Boswell to Bobby Jones, wired the
following tribute to Howell—‘Just reached Atlanta
ten minutes ago and am desolated at not being in time
to send tribute to Billy Howell, whom I regard as by
all odds the best looking youngster we have brought
up in Dixie in the last decade. In addition to his fine
and sound game he is such an engaging and lovable chap
that he is certain to go far and fare happily in the great-
est of individual sports. May I add my congratula-
tions, not only to Billy but to every one of his fellow
townsmen ?”

Grantland Rice, writing about youth and its on-
ward march in sports said—“And when you look back
a few days there was Billy Howell, the attractive youth
from Richmond, also 19 years old, driving the cham-
pion to a dizzy pace down the stretch—3 under 4’s for
the last ten holes—the semi-final round... ”

 

MARRIAGES

Walter N. Pharr, ’29, was married March 2, 1931,
to Miss Irma Jones Buckingham of Memphis. They
are now living in Mt. Clemens, Michigan, a suburb
of Detroit. Walter is a recent graduate of the Army
Air School at Kelly Field and is now a lieutenant in the
United States Army Air Corps, First Pursuit Group at
Selfridge Field.

Invitations have been received from Mr. and Mrs.
Rolla Edward ‘Townsend to the marriage of their .
daughter, Josephine to Gilmore Nunnelley Nunn, on
October 6th, in Amarillo, Texas.

John Minor Wisdom and Miss Bonnie Stewart
Matthews were married at Trinity Church, New
Orleans, Louisiana, October 24th, 1931.

[ 26 ]

 

aT. 2

DEATH'S

JUDGE THOMAS ROTHROCK, ’13.

Judge J. Thomas Rothrock, ’13, former county
judge, veteran of naval service during the World War
and for 18 years a practicing attorney of Jackson, Ten-
nessee, died Monday afternoon, September 14th, at
the Memorial Hospital where he had been a patient for
three weeks.

Judge Rothrock was born in ‘Trenton, Gibson
County, January 18, 1887, the son of Rev. and Mrs. J.
T. Rothrock. His father was a Presbyterian minister
serving a number of pastorates in that section. He re-
ceived his public education in Fayette County, his col-
lege degree at Southwestern University and his law
training at Washington and Lee, graduating here in
1913. He was a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity.

Judge Rothrock was elected county judge in 1917,
but did not qualify as he volunteered his services to his
country during the World War, entering the naval ser-
vice. He remained in the service until the close of
the war when he returned to Jackson and almost im-
mediately qualified as a county judge. For the past
five years he had been associated with Keith Short in
the practice of his profession.

Graduating in law at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Judge Rothrock cherished from the very beginning
the friendship of twelve men whom he had known
and loved in his college days. He furnished the in-
spiration for the subsequent fellowship so richly mani-
fested, for at every opportunity he made it a point to
visit with them. ‘There had been a number of reunions
here at Washington and Lee, and a fellowship that
breathed the finest sentiment of human relations came
to flower. This college group will be deeply saddened
by his passing and will cherish his memory very dearly.

Judge Rothrock was one of the outstanding men
of West Tennessee. He was not only a talented and
learned lawyer and jurist, but also a man whose repu-
tation for integrity and honor was not surpassed. Had
he lived many useful years lay before him, and he un-
doubtedly would have earned recognition as a leader
of his profession in the south.

 

————

 

 

JUDGE JAMES HAY, ’77.

Judge James Hay, ’77, died suddenly Friday night,
June 12, 1931, at his home at Madison, Va. He was
born in Clarke County, Va., January 9, 1856. He had
for some time been in bad health.

He was educated in law at Washington and Lee
University where he was graduated in 1877. He set-
tled in Madison County where in 1883 he became com-
monwealth’s attorney, and from then until his retire-

A £0 Mma N gq

A? ee ee, ee ee ee
ment in 1927 from the office of judge of the United
States court of claims in Washington, he had a con-
tinuous and honorable career in public life. He became
a member of the house of delegates of Virginia in 1885.
In 1893 he was promoted to the senate. He became con-
spicuous as a leader in these state legislative bodies.
He was promoted to congress when in 1916 he was
elected a member of the house of representatives from
the Seventh Virginia district. He continued in this |
office almost altogether unopposed for twenty years,
and during the first Wilson administration became a
national figure as chairman of the committee on military
affairs, in the excitng period preceding our entrance
into the World War. He was author of the national
defense act. He was aggressive and fearless as a con-
gressman and had an attractive personality. He was
a strong supporter and intimate friend of the late
Senator Thomas S. Martin, and was _ conspicuous
among Democratic leaders of Virginia for some years.
In 1916 he voluntarily retired from congress, and was
appointed by President Wilson judge of the Court of
Claims at Washington. This he retired from in 1927.

Judge Hay was married three times. He is surviv-
ed by his widow, Mrs. Eloise Cave Hay, and two sons
and two daughters, James I Hay, Jr., of Washington ;
William Hay, of Virginia; Mrs. W. B. Wade, of
Beckley, W. Va., and Mrs. Frances Page, of Akron,
Ohio.

 

JOHN J. SWEARINGEN, LL.B. ’03.

State Senator John J. Swearingen, of Bartow,
Florida, was killed in an automobile accident near Tam-
pa, Florida, on the night of August 13th.

His car overturned in a ditch seven miles east of
Tampa and he apparently was killed instantly. There
were no witnesses to the accident.

Mr. Swearingen was a practicing attorney of Bar-
tow and was widely known throughout the state.

Senator Swearingen was born in Newman, Ga.,
his parents moving to Bartow when he was five years
old. The elder Swearingen was one of the pioneer
citrus growers of Polk County and his son was like-
wise interested in citrus production.

Graduated from Washington and Lee in 1903, he
began the practice of his profession in Arcadia, later
moving to Bartow. He was elected to the State Senate
in 1924 and re-elected in 1928. He was a member of
the Florida State Chamber of Commerce, and a direc-
tor of the Bartow Chamber. He was a trustee of the
Methodist Church at Bartow and of Southern College
at Lakeland. He was a Mason and a Shriner and was
an active member of the Bartow Kiwanis Club.

Mr. Swearingen is survived by his widow and two
children.

 

Alexander Martz Baker, ’70, died June 19, 1931,
at his home in Winchester, Virginia.

[ 27 ]

See

EMMETT BROOKS PARKER, ’23

Emmett Brooks Parker, ’23, a member of the
Norfolk, Va., law firm of Foreman, Parker & Dyer,
died in a Portsmouth hospital on Monday, October 12th
following a brief illness. His condition had been criti-
cal for several days, following numerous operations
made necessary by a carbuncle on his neck, but his
death came as a shock to his law associates and his
‘ many friends.

Mr. Parker was born near Olive Branch, Norfolk
country, on June 8, 1898, the son of Millard F. Parker
and Mrs. Minnie Parker. He received his elementary
and high school education in the public schools of Nor-
folk county and Portsmouth and after graduating
from high school attended Randolph-Macon College,
where he received an A.B. degree. He then studied
law at Washington and Lee.

Mr. Parker was a member of the Phi Delta Phi
legal fraternity and the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fra-
ternity. He was a member of the Monumental Meth-
odist church, Portsmouth, and of American Legion No.
330, A. F. & A. M., Portsmouth. He married Miss
Eleanor Jack, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. McK. Jack,
of Portsmouth, in April, 1928.

Mr. Parker was considered one of the most prom-
ising younger members of the Norfolk bar and his
death came as a shock to his many friends among the
judges and attorneys both here and in Portsmouth.

At first Mr. Parker’s illness was not considered
serious. But about ten days ago the carbuncle became
so serious that it caused him and his family great alarm.
He was taken to the King’s Daughters Hospital and
several operations were performed in an attempt to
save his life. He became so weak as a result of these
operations that surgeons resorted to blood transfusions
in an effort to stem his ebbing life. Members of the
Norfolk and Portsmouth bar and other friends volun-
teered in great numbers for blood transfusions, but an
infection from the carbuncle could not be stopped.

 

REV. DR. ABSOLEM SYDENSTRICKER, ’78

Rev. Dr. Absolem Sydenstricker, ’78, died at his
home in Nanking, China on September 3, 1931, having
recently passed the fiftieth anniversary of his arrival
in China as a missionary of the Presbyterian Church.
The anniversary was the occasion of a spontaneous
celebration by a large number of Chinese and foreign-
ers, for Dr. Sydenstricker, at that time nearly 80 years
old, was widely held in great respect in the country in
which he had given his life’s work. He was active up
to the time of his death, holding the chair of Old Testa-
ment History and being head of the correspondence
department at the Nanking Theological Seminary.

Dr. Sydenstricker was the father of Edgar Syden-
stricker, of the Millbank Foundation Board, and Mrs.

A i © Mi oN.3

MAG A ZI oN

Pearl S. Buck, the author of “East Wind: West Wind”
and “The Good Earth.”

 

COL. ALEXANDER W. MAISH, 1902-’03.

Col. Alexander W. Maish, 1902-’03, died at Walter
Reid General Hospital in Washington, D. C., Septem-
ber 25th.

Col. Maish was a student at Washington and Lee
in 1902-03. He entered the U. S. Military Academy
June 15, 1903, was commissioned second lieutenant ot
Infantry June 14, 1907. His promotion was rapid
until his retirement June 21, 1930.

Col. Maish is survived by his wife, Mrs. Pauline
B. Maish.

Col. Maish was a nephew of Mrs. Harry D. Camp-

bell,

 

1931 GENERALS HOPEFUL

(Continued from page 21)

down on the Virginia 37 marker. Here the Generals”
held, and Thomas got off a long punt which Mattox re-
turned to his own 28 marker. Mattox promptly made
it first down on the 42 with a bruising slash off-tackle.
Mattox hit the same place for four. Sawyers was
held, but Mattox took it again, and this time penetrated
for a first down on the Virginia 47 marker. Bailey and
Mattox collaborated for another first down on the
Virginia 36 in two plays, as the Virginia coach rushed
a new man into a wide left tackle breach.

Sawyers, picked four, but here W. and L. was pen-
alized 15, taking them back to the 46. ‘Two passes fail-
ed and Bailey punted out on the Cavalier 25. Virginia
lost two yards as the quarter ended. ‘Thomas made a
quick kick and the ball rolled to the Generals 24. Plays
failed, and Thomas with a sparkling run returned
Bailey’s punt to the W. and L. 48 marker. They tried
to pass, and as was by now his custom, Mattox inter-
cepted and ran 20 yards to the Virginia 46 marker.
After two plays W. and L. was again penalized 15
yards. Bailey punted outside on the Virginia 17 mark-
er. Thomas took a lateral pass and whirled to his 29.
Myers and Edgar bucked eleven yards for a first down.
Mattox broke up a long pass. Myers tried to pass
again as the Washington and Lee line swarmed in.
The outstretched arms of Mosovich and Bailey struck
the ball as it left the passer’s hands, lobbing crazily in
the air. Hanley grabbed it and with no struggle at all
conveyed it across the goal, as the stands cheered. Mat-
tox placekick for point was wide again, and the final
score was chalked up 18 to 0.

The time was short and Virginia was desperate.
Two long passes, one awarded on interference, made it
their first down on the W. and L. 15. Mattox again
stepped up to intercept one right out of a Cavalier’s

[ 28 ]

 

aT oe

hands on the goal, returning it to the 3-yard line. The
chimes of triumph were already drifting across the
ravine as Bailey punted out of danger and the final
whistle sounded.

/PERSONALS|

J. G. Ragsdale, LL.B., ’23, (A.B. University oi
Arkansas, ’19) married Miss Dimple Hill, Lexington,
Va., 1923. ‘Two sons J. G., Jr., and Robert Wm. Rags-
dale. Attorney at law as member of the firm of Rags-
dale & Matheney, El Dorado, Ark. City attorney
for El Dorado 1924-’28. Serving second term as
county and probate judge, Union County, Ark. Pres-
ident of County Judges Association of Arkansas—sev-
enty-five counties.

 

 

Raymond Dupuy Smith, ’22, is secretary-treasur-
er of the Vick Financial Corporation, located at 122
East 42nd Street, New York City. He was married
April 14, 1931 to Miss Julia Winston Ashworth of
New York, formerly of Selma and Wilmington, N. C.
Present home address Scarsdale, N. Y.

Juan Navarro, Jr., ’24, is vice-president and man-
ager of the National Construction Co., of Panama, R.
of Panama, now completing the Albrook Aviation Field
which is to be the second largest aviation field of the
United States Army. Also engaged in other kinds of
city development in Panama City.

Galla Paxton, °17, married Ruth Chapman of
Indianola, Miss., in 1923. No children. Is in the cot-
ton business shipping Mississippi Delta staples to do-
mestic mills and exporting to Liverpool, England and
Rotterdam, Holland, under the firm name of A. G.
Paxton Company. His home is in Greenville, Miss.

John D. Mayhew, ’26, formerly New Mexico state
agent for the United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company, is now connected with the Roswell Building
and Loan Association and Roswell Insurance and Sure-
ty Company, Roswell, New Mexico, having been made
a junior partner in both firms.

Edward Harris, ’23, is lecture demonstrator at
Town Hall Club, New York City, on “Writing for the
Radio ;” conducting his own “column” on the air over
Columbia System, Monday mornings at eleven, E. D.

S. T.

C. H. Patterson, A.B., ’26, M. D. Pennsylvania,
’30, completed a year of service as interne at the City

A L. Al). SoM. g

Se? ee es ee “ee

Memorial Hospital in Winston-Salem, N. C., on June
30, 1931, and is now resident interne at Virginia Bap-
tist Hospital, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Harry J. Lemley, ’10, is a member of the State
Highway Audit Commission of the state of Arkansas.
He and his brother, W. Kendall Lemley,’11, are part-
ners in the practice of law at Hope, Arkansas, under
the firm name of Lemley & Lemley.

A card has been received in the Alumni Office
announcing the opening of offices for the practice of
medicine by Dr. Ramon D. Garcin, ’29, at 215 Ster-
ling St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

O. Norris Smith, ‘29, was itinerant instructor for
the American Red Cross Life Saving Service during
the past summer, and is now a junior in the University
of Pennsylvania Medical School.

ee Dr. John V. McCall, ’86, Presbyterian minister,
after pastorates in Cleburne, Hillsboro, and El Paso,
Texas, has recently gone to Sanderson, Texas. He
has been moderator of the Synod of Texas.

H. W. King, B. S., ’11, and wife and two small
sons, were recent visitors at the University. Mr. King
is superintendent of the Interlake Iron Corporation of

Toledo, Ohio.

Harrison I, Goodman, ’22, is teaching mining
engineering at Cornell where he took his degree in that
subject in 1926. He was married to Miss Betty Lin-
coln in 1928.

Washington and Lee alumni in Pittsburg, Pa.,
have recently formed an organization with Dr. J. W.
Claudy, 09, president, and Charles P. Robinson, ’10,
secretary.

Ira Philip Baer, ’04, was elected judge of the Do-
mestic Relations Court of Cabell Co., W. Va., and as-
sumed his new office January 1, 1931. His address
is Huntington, W. Va.

Henry A. Watkins, ’81, Munfordville, Ky., writes
writes us that on January Ist next he will retire, hav-

. ing been in the active practice of law for fifty years.

R. A. Ruff, ’03, is mining Pocahontas Coal at
Elkhorn, W. Va. He is assistant manager of the Croz-
ier Coal & Coke Co.

Leonard T. Brown, ’19, is now a director in and
secretary of the C. E. Dartt Co., 500 Water St., Bridge-
port, Conn., paper wholesalers.

[ 29 ]

en A. tL. A 3 oN

Richard Fritz, Jr., 25, has been sales representa-
tive for Joseph Tetley & Co., Inc., in Northern New
Jersey for the past three years.

Ranson B. Houchins, ’25, has recently moved
from Pineville, W. Va., to Pearisburg, Va., and is prac-
ticing law there.

Henry M. Corbett, ’23, is vice-president of the
North Carolina Bank and Trust Co., of Wilmington,
North Carolina.

Charles A. Cabell, II, now holds a very prominent
position with the Carbon Fuel Company of Carbon,

W. Va.

Paul O. Whitfield, ’24, is connected with the Cen-
tury Co., of Ohio and Kentucky with headquarters
at Columbus, Ohio.

Peyton R. Harrison, °30, is practicing law in
Charles Town, W. Va. He is also president of the
Berkeley Drug Co., of Martinsburg, W. Va.

Walter H. Whitehead, ’28, of Chatham, Va., is
with the British Cigarette Co., Ltd., at Shanghai,
China.

Herbert E. Hannis, ’13, is prosecuting attorney,
and Charles N. Campbell, ’06, is assistant prosecuting
attorney at Martinsburg, W. Va.

A. Merryman Gilbert, ’19, of Martinsburg, W. Va.,
was a representative of his county in the West Vir-
ginia House of Delegates, 1931 session.

Robert P. Beaman, ”11, has recently been elected
president of the Norfolk National Bank of Commerce
and Trusts which is the largest bank in Norfolk.

Watson A. Bowes, B. S. in Commerce, 31, has
become associated with the firm of A. G. Bowes &
Son, realtors, of Denver, Colorado.

J. J. McGinnis, ’29, is working for the Balboa
Brewery and Refrigerating Company, the largest beer
manufacturing plant in Panama City.

Philip Howerton, ’24, has recently been made

agency supervisor for the Charlotte, N. C., district of
the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co.

John C. Ragland, ’29, is with the United States
Rubber Co., at 1790 Broadway.

Bob Davis, ’30, is attending the University of
Southern California.

I

MiA GA 2Z2@ i Hee

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

I WANT TO RECEIVE

The Ring-tum Phi

Please send me the 50 re-
maining issues at the reduced

price of $2.75. Iam enclos-

ing my check for this amount.

CETTE HEHEHE EEE HEHEHE SHEE HH EEE HEHEHE EEE EEE HEHEHE SEES EEE EEE EEEEE SESE

 

[ 30 ]

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘ ae myths sene > . *
a |
=
oom y
‘
‘
a:
o era!
Piers
oe
.
cn "
rn
oo ’
oe
a
a
A
¥
2 ad 4
Fi
Tes ig
oe
a = 5
. ts
Py
s
ee oh : Le ae 5 a
‘ A a. ‘ P 5
i 5 ™ J » sae y .. a 7 5
i ee 4
° 4 Pod & a es
a ee a aoe ‘ >
aan! ‘od a
7 ‘ — Pe] 7] + "
i ihe : A » ; Mean: =
7 > ‘ . oe ,
A ae + FS wey f
< eB al 7 ne ; a)
A on : ae ad * Sy
r $ i a - ee * ' ‘
+e a 5 4 s ha ‘
b € - » s “2
7 vi. + P
iy * & Ld
~ a I ey 5 ¥
b s » 1a s ’ 2 i rf a
® 4 a si so 7
ee oe "
5 . % "i 5 P
o A ‘
et nee ¢
r Pa ‘ . yi
5 , ¥ ee a
F A 4a We ee : — t ota :
a ra 4 * y
oe c
* x . ‘ 2
. on 5
“Hie age ® a r . ’
- > - ‘> a g
a a A i. A
. ae " 4 iP.
} 7 > - 4 4
£ + » = 7 ’ » in
5 /, Sto —
. 5
< war
‘| vy * ” ie. ‘as 1 ns
+ a o F fi gud ¥ 4
P eee :
,
7 " ‘ - 7
° F . SS A - . on er ?
, are. P Pm A
a ; é eae ¢ 5 | y f,
oe ‘ . a “ ‘a A
x 7 o eS a 4 % Se
he A P a ‘
b> ae — ‘
a SL Oi 7 el
ov. = ” - , : he a
7 a a f - > ,
4 é ,
a 7 :
5 ¥ a v4 Fi ha
as P| 5
% Ms . " % ‘
4 7 & c
~~ i + a
r A ra * q a
F a : . en ee 5 ‘ a
q
ea
.
~ o 7
ee:
Pia
a. ey
wt

 

 

; , ‘ oo J oe a
a 7%)
eee Pe

> a ® §S-- <4 a é; - se
a o =o 4 . 7 oi > 4. i -¥ — 4
=~ J % + - pate yey 4 —-
~~
—
“itt oak
‘ . Qe
> ;
, >

Forest Caueri
INVITES YOU

~ <a”
- . 5
\

i=

 

AAR
t ” . pr
7 .
g 4 . . oS r . 4” 7) x aT
. r ’ =
al « 2 4
f } * ' Ke > sa . Kuz
ot my Ss ° i Sk
, t . . es
ere . - : a :
_ - : .
| Pi PL f
7 a », ‘
f - ry pith . - t
-_ -
Ys as ' a
— : ‘
com>
ma

 

 

Tr, Sa =f

a

=f
==

H Hi
i Make this convenient home Where the Charm {|
on of the Old South A\bounds » your headquarters re
2 5
when returning to Washington and Lee. +
~, |

Foret Oauprit is located two miles south of the Mh

l Natural Bridge on lee Highway, L | . Route No. ies

=

Communicate with Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Clothier, owners
= and operators, Natural Bridge, Va.

~e
fh
oa

"7
bea
oy . ‘ t 7 ae —_— = . . » ~~ * [
= oh A 4 em ar ——-f oe = _ 44 > fad a Fe =4 ‘ ‘jj ————__———- 2. = % ——— _—-f ‘ = {+4 T2s%
jeep tt Rs ig

A'S ———

9
a os

 

