The

lumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University
February, 1939

Rs
a te -
a es 5

Srey ee ve cme tee
To SP wwe EE

 

 

 

Class Agents for 1939

1938A—Sam P. McChesney, Jr., 35 Hillvale Drive, St. Louis,
Missouri.

1938 L—William L. Wilson, 523 Washington St., Cumberland,
Maryland.

1937 A—Fielden Woodward, Lexington, Va.

1937 L—Stanley C. Higgins, Jr., Fayetteville, W. Va.

1936A—Tyree F. Wilson, Pineville, Ky.

1936 L—John S. Beagle, Office of Prosecuting Attorney, Flint,
Michigan.

1935A—Bill Schuhle, 1107 Wise St., Lynchburg, Va.

1935 L—W. W. Brown, Union Producing Company, Shreve-
port, Louisiana.

1934A—George D. McClure, Republic National Bank Build-
ing, Dallas, Texas.

1934.L—Taylor Jones, 508 Consolidated Building, Jacksonville,

Florida.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., care of Dunn & Bradstreet, Fast
Ohio Gas Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

1933 L—Donald K. Crawford, Elkins, W. Va.

1932A—Kemper Jennings, Mainland High School, Daytona
Beach, Florida.

1932 L—Martin P. Burks, III, 6 Kirk Ave., N. Roanoke, Va.

1931A—Ben M. Ayars, 213 S. Walker St., Columbia, S. C.

1931 L—James B. Martin, Gloucester, Va.

1930A—Edward S. Graves, R. F. D. No. 1, Lynchburg, Va.

1930 L—Leonard H. Davis, Citizens Bank Bldg., Norfolk, Va.

1929A—Allen Morgan, Jr., First National Bank, Memphis,
Tennessee.

1929L—Ralph M. McLane, American National Bank Build-
ing, Pensacola, Fla.

1928A—Ed Miller, Boatmans Bank Building, St. Louis, Mo.

1928 L—R. W. Jordan, Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation,
Richmond, Va.

1927A—Kenneth A. Durham, care of Davenport
Mills, Chattanooga, Tenn.

1927 L—Rhea Whitley, Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

1926A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., Air Reduction Sales Co.,
Hawley Building, Wheeling, W. Va.

1926 L—Basil G. Watkins, Peoples National Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Va.

1925A—Murrel D. Klein, care of Klein & Appel, Starks Build-
ing, Louisville, Ky.

1925 L—George T. Clark, Ingraham Building, Miami, Fla.

1924A—Frank C. Switzer, Harrisonburg Mutual Telephone
Co., Harrisonburg, Va.

1924 L—Ranolph G. Whittle, 6 Kirk Avenue, Roanoke, Va.

1923A—Ed Aull, 1210 Ash St., Birmingham, Ala.

1923 L—A. L.McCarthy, 229 Shell Building, Houston, Texas.

1922A—

1922 L—Edmund D. Campbell, Southern Building, Washing-
ton, D. C.

1921A—John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building, St. Louis, Mo.

1921L—John Bell, care of Turner,
Tampa, Fla.

1920A—Thomas McA. Stubbs, 705 Healey Building, Atlanta,
Georgia.

1920 L—L. Berkeley Cox, Aetna Life Insurance Co., Hartford,
Connecticut.

Hosiery

Knight, Thompson &

.1905

1919A—Dr. T. Dewey Davis, Professional Rich-
mond, Virginia.

1919_L—Howard P. Aruest, 1425 Yeon
Oregon.

1918A—A. S. Marx, Lake Charles, Louisiana.

1918 L—J. Kent Early, Charlotte Court House, Va.

1917A—Marion Sanders, Wytheville, Virginia.

1917 L—LaFayette B. Chafin, Williamson, W. Va.

1916A—Battle Bagley, Fayetteville, Tenn.

1916 L—Sam P. Kohen, 2424 Austin St., Waco, Texas.

1915A—Paul C. Thomas, 1109 Highland Avenue, Bluefield,
West Virginia.

1915L—Arthur M. Birdsall, 704 Tenth St., Belmar, N. J.

1914A—Wayne Ely, Bank of Commerce Building, St. Louis,
Missouri.

1914L—Ben D. Smith, Somerset, Ky.

1913A—Lewis Twyman, Box 887, Miami, Fla.

1913 L—Howard P. Macfarlane, Maas Office Building, Tampa,
Florida.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Va.

1912 L—Judge A. G. Lively, Lebanon, Va.

1911A—F. P. Guthrie, 4301 Argyle Terrace, Washington, D.C.

1911 L—Omar T. Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.

1910A—Rayford W. Alley, 30 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

1910 L—Orange W. Richardson, 803 Columbia Building, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania.

1909A—Dr. Devall L. Gwathmey, Wytheville, Va.

1909 L—Judge E. C. Caffrey, Essex County Court, Newark,
New Jersey.

1908A—Peyton Hobson, Pikeville, Ky.

1908 L—E. L. Beale, Franklin, Va.

1907 —W. R. J. Dunn, care of Dunn Construction Company,
Birmingham, Ala.

—Dr. F. R. Crawford, Farmville, Va.

—Walter G. Riddick, 1115 Boyle Building, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

—K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building, Tampa, Fla.

suilding,

Building, Portland,

1906

1904

1903 —Colonel James Warren Bagley, 2 Divinity Ave., Cam-

bridge, Massachusetts.
1902 —Osman E. Swartz, 803 Union Building, Charleston,
West Virginia.

1901 —Clarence C. Burns, Lebanon, Va.

1900 —Hilton S. Hampton, Citizens Bank Building, Tampa,
Florida.

—Rev. Jas. A. McClure, D. D., 122 Eighth Avenue, St.
Petersburg, Fla.

—Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington St., Chicago,
Illinois.

1899
1898
1897 —

1896 —H. H. Larimore, 2008 Missouri Pacific Building, St.
Louis, Missouri.

1895 —T. Kennedy Helm, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville, Ky.

1894 —

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

1892 —Hale Houston, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

Appalachian

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas
James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building

Baltimore, Maryland
A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road

Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chicago, Illinois

W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company
Cincinnati, Ohio

Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court

Cumberland Valley
C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.

Dallas, Texas

Pinkney Grissom, Republic Nat’l Bank Bldg.
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast
H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.

Gulf Stream

Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,

Florida
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky

Robert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway
Memphis, Tennessee

Allen Morgan, First National Bank
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 832 Metarie Road
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street

Piedmont
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
Ed. H. Miller, 14 N. Kingshighway
Tri-State
‘ J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIV FEBRUARY 1939 No. 3
Nc a su'est dil Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor............ RicHArD P. Carrer, 1929

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

NUDE iyi 02. sis vkceaseasedindcsni JosEpH T. Lyxes, 1909
A Harry K. (Cy) Younce, 1917
cou STuART Moore, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

NorMAN S. Firzuucu, 1898
H. H. Lartmore, 1896
Joun BEtt Tow1zt, 1929
Dr. RicHarpD Fow.xkEs, 1915
J. R. NEAL, 1915

 

Contents for February 1939

PAGE

Shall the Independent College Survive ?............00000.0.000..0000000.. 3
(The President’s Page)

New South Rises on Foundations Laid by Lee.......... cee. 4
Peeemerene, Sonomial Style. ii. ik ins ds;ctleidaad »-. daaet cone dates 7
Le. Mupeippel Coserves 80th Birsiday.......5..-ssssislidnientatens 9
PRM RUCTIOENE WV 10S FROMOTS: 5650.65 .i5;0. if Foe sccengteveks ms Les ccherweotabe: 1]
Commentary on Sports at the University.......000.00000000000000.... 13
Story of the Washington and Lee Glee Club.....000000000000000........ 16
Dame eeew Faring Couch) 2a ities cnens teen, eae 18
Local Alumni Association Notes.................0.0.c00ceee ks ok 19

QS 0 Se | side SONG bibl, Cees et A reat 21

 

 

7
~
- ‘

. ys
; oe
. i
es
”

,
0 ie oe
A

a
-
> 7
4 »
iy Pt 7.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Shall the Independent College Survive?

(The President's Page)

ANY thoughtful students of current trends believe
M that within the next quarter of a century, or even
within the next decade, the independent, non-profit col-
leges must struggle not only for any enlarged usefulness
but even for their very existence. Four recent develop-
ments are cited as indicating the tendencies
which endanger these institutions.

K K *

First of all, the independent college suffers
now, and may suffer more, from the impotence
of invested holdings for earning income. The
situation of Washington and Lee is probably
typical, and that situation is that an investment
of $1.75 now earns as much income as $1 did
a few years ago. Further depreciation in
income-earning power of securities will be crip-
pling ; anything like inflation, of course, will be
clisastrous. x ok ox

inde-

A second development that operates against
pendent colleges is the expenditure of huge Federal sums
in the building programs of colleges that normally draw
support from state funds. Virginia alone has received for
its state-supported institutions many millions of dollars.
‘nlargement of these plants will inevitably mean larger
burdens of maintenance, and the net result will be a tre-
mendous increase in demands upon the budgets of the
various states for these colleges of public control.

* *«K x

A third fact, and at the moment it seems most omi-
nous, is the proposal to bring all independent colleges un-
der the provisions of the Federal Social Security pro-
gram. This plan would prove costly in an extreme meas-
ure and would bring to institutions of the type of Wash-
ington and Lee virtually no benefits. There is every prac-
tical reason why the inclusion of our institution under
this plan is undesirable.

*2e a

But there is a reason of principle vastly more impor-
tant. If this proposal is carried out, for the first time we
shall see the ancient precedent of tax-exemption for such
institutions abrogated. If this principle is set aside, we
may expect taxes that will sooner or later make ineffec-
tive, if not impossible, the operation of the independent
college.

 

The fourth hazard to the private college is implied in
legislation now before Congress to put Federal money di-
rectly into the support of local education not only upon
the secondary level but also in assisting such factors of
higher education as junior colleges and teacher-training
schools. Again the present proposal is probably
only the first step; the establishment of this
plan will be a long stride toward the federali-
zation of the entire learning process.

* ok *

It is in connection with the third point, the
removal of the tax-exemption principle, how-
ever, that the independent colleges are now
chiefly concerned. Speaking at the Harvard
Tercentenary, President Angell of Yale said:
“Men in high authority have been of late quoted
as intimating that taxation would shortly be so
used as to compel all endowed colleges and uni-
versities to come under State or Federal control.”

oa ie

Independent colleges have been protected by tax ex-
emption not because they had merit for any class distine-
tions or for special privilege. ‘This exemption has existed
in part because these colleges have earned at least this
much recompense for carrying such a large proportion of
the burden of education. Probably half of the boys and
girls now in American colleges are in this type of in-
stitution. * * x

But more important, much more important, has been
the conviction that knowledge and the inquiries after
knowledge should be free. For our type of democracy, in-
tellectual freedom is not merely desirable; it is essential.

ee

This is not to say that under present conditions inde-
pendent colleges enjoy greater freedom than do many
state-supported schools. But it is profoundly true that
the best guarantee of freedom in any such state-supported
schools is the existence of the independent, untrammeled

college. seins 7 tl

Autocracies seek first of all absolute control of the
springs of thought that feed the streams of public opin-
ion. The quickest and the surest and the most dreadful

(Continued on page 20)

[3]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

New South Rises on Foundations Laid by Lee

By Puivip KINSLEY
Chicago Tribune Press Service

(The following article was written by Mr. Kinsley in
the Chicago Sunday Tribune, January 22, 1939. It is re-
printed here by permission of the Chicago Sunday
Tribune.)

EXINGTON, VIRGINIA, January 21.—(Special) — The
re New South, foreseen by General Robert E.. Lee after
his surrender to Grant and his assumption here of the
presidency of Washington and Lee University, is taking
shape in the old Valley of Virginia and in the Piedmont
country to the south.

Here, in the first West, where the creed of the Amer-
ican republic was forged in a death conflict with physical
enemies, bright and progressive cities and great industries
are strung like a necklace of jewels against the pine clad
hills of the pioneers.

While the quiet little vales and hollows that have re-
mained unchanged for centuries still contain many an un-
painted cabin and a corn patch indicative of a precarious
living, the appellation of this part of the South as the
Nation’s No. 1 Economic Problem seems hard to visualize.

It may work out in statistics, but business men, pro-
fessors, bus travelers and editors question it, and a view
of workers’ quarters, new suburban construction and
prosperous looking cities does not support it. There is a
gap here between statistics and the living reality.

The statement cannot be dismissed lightly, however,
because whatever is the South’s problem is the nation’s
problem. It will be considered later in relation to other
parts of the country, particularly the western part of the
Appalachians.

We begin here with a view of Lexington, center of
the old seedbed of pioneers and heroes, colonizers and
projectors of American commonwealths, men who lived
dangerously to establish liberty in a new world for their
children and all who should follow them.

lexington is the shrine of the Southland, sheltering
the burial place and the recumbent marble statue of Gen-
eral Lee, of whom President Francis Pendleton Gaines
of Washington and Lee University, writing of Lee’s final
achievement between 1865 and 1870, says:

“Not in a spirit of pedagogical experimentation, but
with a definite understanding of the social order which
was to be developed, he transformed the curriculum of

the ancient classical school (to which George Washington
gave the first substantial contribution ).

“Here was a new South that would need legislation,
legal adjustment, legal interpretation ; so Lee added a dli-
vision of law. Here was a new South that must see broad
utilization of natural resources and emphasis upon trans-
portation ; so Lee added a school of engineering.

“Here was a new South that would pass at least in
part from the agrarian mode of the plantation to the order
of business; and Lee projected a school of commerce,
probably the first ever planned upon collegiate levels,
though the project waited many years for its fulfillment.

“Here was a new South that required intelligent
guidance in the formulation of public opinion ; and Lee
organized a course in journalism, with certain practical
experiences provided.

“He wanted maximum responsibility placed on the in-
dividual and utter confidence reposed in him; and from
his purpose grew the University’s honor system, effective
to this day... . He emphasized the mood, later to become
happily general throughout his section, of citizenship in a
united country, a mood of unvarying loyalty to the coun-
try and a faith in its destiny.”

And so today, facing the Lee memorial chapel, is a
vibrant campus where students speak to strangers with
courtesy. Majestic and ancient trees shelter it; youth and
the singing of birds enliven it. Tall, white columns adorn
the front of all its buildings, a line of classic and impos-
ing beauty in floodlight, moonlight, or sunlight.

On the campus is a statue of Cyrus Hall McCormick,
a native of the county, who perfected the grain reaper in
1831. It is written of him:

“He liberated agriculture, befriended education, ad-
vanced the cause of religion, trustee and benefactor of
Washington and Lee.”

In this section also J. A. E. Gibbs devised the chain-
stitch sewing machine in 1856. A few miles north is the
birthplace of Woodrow Wilson. In a cabin on a hilltop to
the east, Sam Houston, hero of ‘Texan independence, was
born in 1793. Another hero traced to this section is Major
Joseph Bowman, second in command of George Rogers
Clark’s expedition, who was born at Fort Bowman.

A few miles to the south industry fills the Valley at
Roanoke, a Virginia city of 100,000, where 160 industries

[4]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and eleven utility companies employ 19,000 persons with
an annual pay roll of more than $26,000,000. Here trunk
line railroads serve the East. There are 123 wholesale
houses and 920 retail units.

Here are manufactured railroad locomotives and cars,
rayon products, fabricated steel, underwear, foundry
products, furniture, flour and mill feed, tin cans, metal
and concrete culverts, varnish, beverages, chemicals, flav-
oring extracts, and cosmetics.

This is the medical center of the southwest of the
state, with six hospitals. Hollins College, the first char-
tered college for women in Virginia, is near Roanoke,
grown out of the pioneer estate of William Carvin in
1746. Roanoke College is another cultural center. The
white population worships in seventy-seven churches, and
the colored in thirty-two.

Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is the next impor-
tant city in the old road between the mountain ridges.
This is dominated physically by the observation tower of
the Reynolds Tobacco Company office building, the high-
est in the state. The sweet smell of tobacco is in the air.
This town pays $350,000 a day in internal revenue, fills
ninety freight cars and scores of motor trucks daily with
its products—not only tobacco, but hosiery, underwear,
woolen, and furniture products.

The Salem (meaning peace) section of this commun-
ity is the substantial result of the migration of twelve
brethren of the Moravian Church, who established Bet-
habara in 1753 and the beginnings of Salem in 1766. They
had bought 100,000 acres from Lord Granville, one of
the proprietors of North Carolina in colonial days. It was
called Wachovia, or stream meadow, and from here,
through all Indian dangers, revolutions and wars, has
emanated a steady stream of peace, industry, and pros-
perity.

The home town is Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, but there
are 10,000 of the sect in this district. Schools and churches,
where character building and heart religion are the keys
to development, constitute their chief activities.

The Salem college and academy, which was begun in
1772, is its contribution to the educational field. This is
one of the oldest colleges for women, and is housed
around the red brick square and the old church that is the
center of the town.

The history of the Moravians in this country demon-
strates what religion and industry, as a living day by day
motive, can accomplish. Even in pioneer days and during
war raids, they always were able to feed and care for the
traveler and the stranger.

They fed the Indians, but took care to show their guns.
It is related of them that they frightened Indian raiders

away by the blowing of their great trumpets and the sing-
ing of hymns—that the Indians thought of them, as they
thought of John Sevier, as under the protection of in-
visible powers. They undoubtedly were right.

The Easter service of the church, which began in 1732
in Saxony, is one of the great sights of the twin cities
every year. When the clock in the Home Church strikes
the hour the door opens, the ministers appear, and the
bishop's voice proclaims, ‘The Lord is risen! The Lord is
risen, indeed.”

A multitude moves up the avenue to God's Acre, the
big cemetery where the faithful sleep under rows and
rows of simple white slabs, and offer prayer and the con-
fession of faith. The Easter tidings are sounded in chorals
rendered by 250 or more trombones and horns, and thou-
sands join in songs as the sun rises.

The story of this church, begun as the Ancient Unitas
Kratrum under the teachings of John Hus, Bohemian
martyr who was burned at the stake in 1415, is dramatic.
It should be an object lesson to those who are trying to
stamp out religion today, for under all abuses and _ per-
secutions, even under threat of death, they kept alive the
“hidden seed” of their faith and teachings, and at last
saw it transplanted and bloom in the free air of America.

The first settlers in the wilds of Pennsylvania and in
Georgia, where their teachings influenced John Wesley,
were as truly Pilgrim fathers as the men who came on
the Mayflower. They entered this land with deep thanks-
giving. One of their early hymns is “God Save Great
Washington.”

The first Salem flag made by the women for the Con-
federate soldiers bears these words:

“Our country first, our glory and our pride,
[and of our own, land where our fathers died,
When in the right we'll keep thy honor bright,
When in the wrong we'll die to set thee right.”

In the basement of the old schoolhouse, which still
stands, there is a legend of a little man with a red cap
who was killed there during one of the wars. His ghost is
said to return and people tell of hearing him tapping in
the night.

The Moravians have become individual property own-
ers, and some are connected with the great tobacco com-
pany. James A. Gray, the president, has been one of the
benefactors of their schools and missions.

This may be said of all this industrial belt, which, al-
though traditionally Democratic, has an outlook on pres-
ent governmental trends and policies that is practically in-
distinguishable from that of Northern middle class busi-
ness interests.

[5]

 

Cecil Taylor, of Lynchburg, Virginia, as Governor Spotswood, with Miss Margaret Alexandar Tomlin, of
Cincinnati, as Miss Ann Butler Bryan, leaders of the 1939 Fancy Dress Ball.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Fancy Dress, Colonial Style

Washington and Lee University, the book of Fancy
Dress is safely stored away. This is the vivid memory of
the joy, beauty, fun and glamor that goes with Fancy
Dress. Whenever there is a gathering of University
alumni, recollections of this or that Fancy Dress Ball are
sure to come up, for the “foremost collegiate social event
in the South” is near and dear to the hearts of the sons of
Washington and Lee.

S ‘Washingt in the memoirs of every alumnus of

The 1939 Fancy Dress will be written as a climactic
conclusion in the books of this year’s graduating class,
and it will be long remembered by everyone who took
part in it.

The 1939 Fancy Dress Ball undertook to recreate one
of the most romantic stories in the annals of Colonial
Virginia—the story of Virginia’s “Knights of the Golden
Horseshoe’”—and to renew in retrospective contempla-
tion memories of her “greatest and most beneficent”
Governor—The Honorable Alexander Spotswood, Es-
quire, His Majesty’s Lieutenant-Governor in Chief of
the Colony and Dominion of Virginia.

From the time of his coming out to Virginia in 1710
Governor Spotswood proved himself a man of great vigor
and many abilities. The political and economic import-
ance of the unexplored land to the west early caught his
fancy, and he determined upon its early exploration.

Accordingly, on August 20, 1716, in company with
several of the first gentlemen of the Colony, including
Robert Beverly, and the journalist, John Fontaine, two
fully-equipped companies of Rangers, and Indian guides,
he set out from Williamsburg for the valley of the river
now called Shenandoah, ‘a strange region whose eastern
boundary of unpassed mountains was then called by the
dwellers in the tide water ‘the World’s End.’ ”

According to Fontaine’s Journal, Spotswood and his
light-hearted companions crossed the river which they
called Euphrates, but which has since come to be known
as the Shenandoah, on September 6 and “‘the Governor
buried a bottle with a paper inclosed, on which he writ
that he took possession of this in the name and for King
George the First of England.” Fontaine records further
that the gay little company then “drank the King’s health
in Champagne, and fired a volley. ... We called the high-
est mountain Mount George and the one we crossed over
Mount Spotswood.”

The homeward journey was marked by no untoward
event and came to an end on September 16 when Gover-
nor Spotswood arrived again in Williamsburg.

Shortly thereafter to each gentleman who had ac-
companied him on the western expedition was presented
a Golden Horseshoe, an explanation for which is pro-
vided by the ever observant Hugh Jones, who wrote:

“For this Expedition they were obliged to provide a
great Quantity of Horseshoes; (things seldom used in
the Lower Parts of the Country where there are few
Stones) ; Upon which Account the Governor upon their
Return presented each of his Companions with a Golden
Horseshoe, (some of which I have seen studded with
valuable Stones resembling the Heads of Nails) with the
Inscription on the one side: Sic juvat trancendere montes.
And on the other is written the tramontane Order.”

Elsewhere the ubiquitous Mr. Jones set down the ob-
servation that “At the Capital at public ‘Times may be
seen a great Number of handsome, well-dress’d, Com-
pleat Gentlemen. And at the Governor’s House upon
Birth-Nights, and at Balls and Assemblies. I have seen as
fine an Appearance, as good Diversion, and as splendid
Entertainment in Governor Spotswood’s ‘Time as I have
seen anywhere else.”

No account of the time and place of the presentation
of the Golden Horseshoes has been preserved. It is not
improbable, however, that the occasion was one of the
balls or assemblies to which Mr. Jones refers.

It is this occasion in late September of 1716 which the
1939 Fancy Dress Ball undertook to recreate.

Holding the place of honor in the chapter of mem-
ories of this year’s Fancy Dress, will be the story of the
pageant which was depicted in the figure of the ball by
the leaders of the dance. Spotswood was portrayed by
Cecil Taylor of Lynchburg, Virginia, Washington and
Lee law student and president of Fancy Dress; Miss
Margaret Alexander Tomlin of Cincinnati, a sophomore
at Sweet Briar College, played the part of Miss Ann But-
ler Bryan, Spotswood’s lady.

Taylor’s costume was an exact reproduction from the
only known portrait of Spotswood, now in possession of
one of his descendants in Williamsburg, Virginia. He
wore a square cut.coat of crimson, with a long flapped
waistcoat of cream color, heavily embroidered in gold.
The coat had long hanging cuffs, with the white pleated

[7]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

sleeve of the shirt showing. The skirt of the coat, which
hung to his knees, was stiffened with wire from beneath
which the hilt of a dress sword peaked.

Taylor wore long silk stockings with silver clocks and
a lawn stock without ruffles. His shoes were square toed,
short quartered, with high red heels that were the style
for the gentlemen of that day. He also wore a full, pow-
dered campaign wig. !

Miss ‘lomlin’s costume was an ivory gown over a
petticoat of cream lace, and was trimmed with gold bows.
The dress itself had a tight fitting bodice with a high back
and a low, square cut front. Miss Tomlin wore side hoops
in the dress in accordance with the dictates of fashion in
colonial Williamsburg, Virginia.

She wore a small cap that was fashionable in that day ;
made of sheer muslin and trimmed with fine lace. Her
hair was worn without powder and pulled back from the
forehead and caught in a knot at the base of the neck.
She wore no jewelry because of the lack of authentic cop-
ies from which reproductions could be made. However,
she carried a small informal bouquet of seasonal flowers.

The two costumes were designed with the help of
Williamsburg Restoration officials and after extensive re-
search by Mrs. L. J. Desha and Professor F. James
Barnes, II, of Washington and Lee, who were the advisers
for the ball.

The scene of the pageant was the household of the
Honorable Lieutenant-Governor Spotswood of His Maj-
esty’s Colony of Virginia at Williamsburg:

“Tt is a clear, cool night in late September of 1716 and
the residence of Spotswood is being made ready for the
assembly” celebrating the recent return of his exploratory
expedition to the valley of the Shenandoah.

Lackeys and red-coated members of the garrison busy
themselves in making the final preparations. And shortly
after the Governor and his aide enter the ballroom to see
that everything is in readiness, a lackey signals that the
guests have begun to arrive.

First to be announced are Robert and Mistress Bev-
erley, played by Robert Nicholson and Virginia Gould,
closest friends of Spotswood, with Miss Ann Butler
Bryan, who—later married to Spotswood—is to be hon-
ored by the Governor's attendance at the assembly. This
is the first occasion on which Governor Spotswood and
Miss Bryan have met and it is with pleasant surprise that
Spotswood escorts her to the place of honor beside him.

Other early arrivals include the first gentlemen of the
Colony who had accompanied Spotswood on his ultra-
montane expedition. John Fontaine (Frank ©’Connor),
whose journal is probably the most authentic record of
the trip, is first to enter. Then William Robertson (Edgar
Shannon, Jr.), Doctor Robinson (Allen Snyder), James

Taylor (Buddy Foltz), Robert Brooke (Charles Hart),
George Mason (Victor Snow) and Jeremiah Clouder
(Reid Brodie, Jr.) arrive with their laides to greet Spots-
wood and renew the experiences of their recent trip.

As the time for the beginning of the assembly grows
short, the guests arrive in increasing numbers. The Rev-
erend Doctor James Blair (Tom Bradley), president of
the College of William and Mary, attends with a group
of friends. Then Edmund Jennings (Birnie Harper),
senior member of the Council, arrives with another group
of guests to pay his respects to the Governor. And a third
party attended by Daniel McCarty (George Myers),
speaker of the House of Burgesses, enters just before the
Governor orders his aide to let the assembly begin.

Whereupon the aide informs the Governor that the
Reverend Arthur Blackamore (Ernest Woodward I!)
desires to present some verses commemorating the Gov-
ernor’s recent expedition—a request which the Governor
grants. The Governor then proclaims, as official recog-
nition of the expedition and as encouragement to future
exploration, the creation of the Knights of the Golden
Horseshoe—to which order he names certain of the gen-
tlemen who had accompanied him on his expedition. Each
receives the accolade of the Governor and a golden horse-
shoe from Miss Bryan as token of his new knighthood.
And the guests all applaud as the Governor himself kneels
before Miss Bryan and is decorated: “Alexander Spots-
wood, Knight of the Golden Horseshoe.”

That his bounteousness may not be limited, Governor
Spotswood orders gifts for all the guests ; and the lackeys
bring in silver trays laden with pearl lockets in blue jewel
boxes, of which each gentleman receives one to present
to his lady.

But now it is high time for the dancing to begin, and
the Governor calls for a minuet by the Knights of the
Golden Horseshoe and their ladies, after which he and
Miss Bryan—to the joy of all the guests—arise to dance
his favorite waltz, in which the other guests gradually
follow until all Williamsburg has caught the spirit which
is making this the most famous assembly in the Colony’s
history.

Thus is written the story of the 1939 Fancy Dress
Ball which is the final chapter of the book of four Fancy
Dresses for the graduating class of 1939, and but the
prologue to future Fancy Dress Balls to members of the
freshman class. But whatever place this dance holds in
the life stories of Fancy Dress, it is certain to stand out
as one of the most memorable dances ever given at Wash-
ington and Lee University. It is equally certain that
wherever the sons of Washington and Lee may roam in
future years, the memory of the 1939 Fancy Dress will
go with them as a glorious event in their college careers.

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Dr. Campbell Observes 80th Birthday

at Washington and Lee in 1878 and his M.A. in
1879, was warmly congratulated by a wide circle of
friends when he celebrated his 80th birthday at Asheville,
North Carolina, on December 12, 1938. He is pastor
emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church at Asheville ;
he was pastor of the church forty-six years.

Among those who sent special greetings to the be-
loved Presbyterian minister was Governor Hoey of North
Carolina, who told Dr. Campbell his life “has been a
benediction to your city and state and you have given us
all an example of how to live simply and grandly.”

Interviewed by Asheville Citizen and Asheville Times
reporters on his birthday, Dr. Campbell recalled that
Asheville was a town of about 12,000 when he first went
there in 1892.

“You know I inherited the trait of ‘staying put,’ ” Dr.
Campbell told the Asheville Citizen. “My father was a
professor at Washington and Lee University at Lexing-
ton, Virginia, for thirty-five years and died at his post.

“My elder brother was treasurer of the same univer-
sity, clerk to the faculty and secretary of the Board of
Trustees for thirty-six years and died at his post. My
younger brother was a professor at Washington and Lee
for forty-seven years and died at his post.

“In all, the family has 118 years of service to the
school. Alumni have placed a tablet in Lee hall to com-
memorate the long service of the family to the school.

D* RoBERT FIsHBURNE CAMPBELL, who took his B.A.

“I don’t expect to live to be ninety years old but I
would compromise if I could live to see my young son
graduate at Washington and Lee where he is a student. I
do not want to live after I am helpless and a burden to
anyone, but all this is in the hands of higher power and I
won't worry about it. The boy at Washington and Lee
now represents the fifth generation of my family with the
school.”

Turning to world affairs and discussing the rise and
spread of dictatorships throughout the universe, Dr.
Campbell said that Americans should be prouder of their
country today than ever before.

“We should be very thankful that we live in America
where democracy rules,” he said. “Here the people enjoy
free speech, free press, free religion and peaceful as-
semblage. Affairs in other countries should make us more
appreciative than ever and should make us want to de-
fend our country and our rights at any cost.

“I think we are making a mistake in our comparative
policy of isolation. I always believed that we would have
been better off if we had gone into the League of Nations.
We could have adjusted the inequalities of the Versailles
treaty and prevented most of the confusion now existing
in the world today.”

Dr. Campbell has been the recipient of two of the
greatest honors within the gift of the Southern Presby-
tery. In 1927 he was elected moderator of the Southern
Presbytery and in 1930 was chosen to deliver the lec-
tures at the James Sprunt foundation at Union Theologi-
cal Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. These lectures have
been published in book form under the title “Freedom and
Restraint.”

Dr. Campbell also has been on more boards, commis-
sions and committees in the Southern Presbytery than any
other man of his generation. When questioned about these
posts, Dr. Campbell said “I just looked wise and kept my
mouth shut. Solomon once said ‘even a fool is considered
wise if he has sense enough to keep his mouth shut.’ ”

Dr. Campbell is probably the only minister of this
generation in the Southern Presbytery who has served a
church as pastor for more than forty years.

Dr. Campbell has been trustee of the Union Theologi-
cal Seminary since 1897 and is the senior member of the
board by fifteen years. He also has served as chairman of
the Asheville Presbytery since it was organized in 1896.

Dr. Campbell was born at Lexington, Virginia, on
December 12, 1858, the son of John Lyle and Harriet
Peters (Bailey) Campbell. He was graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee University with the degree of Bachelor of
Arts in 1878 and Master of Arts in 1879. For several
years he taught school and from 1882 to 1885, attended
the Union Theological Seminary at Hampden-Sydney,
Virginia. Davidson College conferred upon him the Doc-
tor of Divinity degree in 1893. He was ordained by the
Lexington Presbytery in 1885 and for four years had
charge of two churches in Bath County, Virginia. He was
pastor of Davidson College Church from 1889 to 1890,
returned to Virginia for two years and then was installed
as pastor of the Asheville Church in 1892.

Dr. Campbell’s telephone was kept busy by friends
congratulating him on the eve of his eightieth birthday.
The Rev. C. B. Chapin, president of the Asheville and
Buncombe County Ministerial Association, on behalf of

[9]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the association, sent Dr. Campbell a congratulatory letter
which follows:

“In the name of the ministerial association of Ashe-
ville and Buncombe County and as its president and also
in my own name, I am sending you felicitations upon your
eightieth birthday.

“We congratulate you for your heroic and winning
fight against an insidious disease forty-five years ago.

“We congratulate you upon your long and fruitful
pastorate in the First Presbyterian Church of this city.
Very few ministers could or would be able to bring forth
new and helpful truths Sunday after Sunday from the
same old Gospel, and without repetition. This you have
done.

“We congratulate you upon your larger service to your
denomination in Presbytery, synod, and general assembly.

“We congratulate you upon your cordial and friendly
cooperation with all the ministers and churches of Ashe-
ville, Protestant, Roman Catholic and Jewish.

“We congratulate you upon your great work during
the years and through the ministerial association, for pro-
moting civic righteousness, and obedience to law in our
city.

“Last, but not least, we congratulate you upon con-
tinuous activity since becoming pastor emeritus of the
First Presbyterian Church, in preaching, speaking and
working for the Master in city, county, and even beyond.

“Far from being laid upon the shelf, you are bringing
forth ‘much fruit’ in old age. With our congratulations go
our loving wishes and earnest prayers for your continued
health and helpfulness, for without a doubt you are still
the best loved man in Asheville.”

 

University To Get Lee Letter

AN ORIGINAL LETTER from General Robert E. Lee,
commending the late Jas. A. Fishburne, of Waynesboro,
Virginia, founder of Fishburne Military School, “for his
distinguished industry and success in his studies,” will be
presented to Washington and Lee to be preserved among
the University’s collection of original writings of the Con-
federate leader.

The letter was the property of the late Mrs. Mary
Amis Fishburne, widow of Jas. A. Fishburne, and under
the terms of her will was included in property left to be-
nevolent agencies of the Presbyterian Church in the
United States as residuary legatees.

The letter is being transferred to the University by
the church agencies in consideration “of a desire to assist
in the collection and preservation of the original writings
of General Robert E. Lee,”

The Story of the Dog Tag

OrpINARILY, you wouldn’t think there would be much
of a story in dog tags, would you? But there is, only it
isn’t a story about just any old dog tag at all. Not at all.
It’s about the dog tags that saved the day, or the job, or
the business career, or something. You be the judge.

Here’s what it’s all about:

last summer, just after Finals at Washington and
Lee, it seemed that Kaye Swan, of Evanston, Illinois,
couldn't find that elusive job in the proverbially cold world
that lies in wait for enterprising college graduates.

So young Swan cast about and began to think. And
he thought up what proved to be a good and profitable
business—in dog tags.

Here’s how Royal F. Munger told the story in the
Chicago Daily News of December 28, 1938:

Kaye Swan’s like many other young fellows, grad-
uated from college last June and faced a business world
in which jobs seemed to have vanished. ‘Taking stock of
himself, he decided that if he had spent four years in pol-
ishing his intellect at Washington and Lee University the
aforesaid mind ought to supply the answer. The formula
he followed was the same as that used by most successful
men, from Henry Ford forward and backward: He
looked around for something people needed.

In his case it occurred to him that people who loved
dogs thought a good deal more of them than the worth of
the particular pup at an auction sale would indicate. A
good dog becomes practically a member of the family. At
all events, he started to take orders for individual dog
tags, bearing the name and address of the owner.

“T am Rover, owned by John Jones, 123 Blank Street,
Lake Forest,” was about the style, and he found that sell-
ing German silver tags at 65 cents each left a good profit.
In a few months he had collected 1,500 orders, enlisted
energetic schoolboys as agency managers and was on his
way to building a successful business.

In stirring up such a duet he has attracted the atten-
tion of businessmen and been offered four good jobs be-
cause of his energy and resourcefulness. Although this
would have satisfied his utmost hope last spring, he is no
longer interested; his own enterprise has too many pos-
sibilities.

Business, he grins, can continue going to the dogs as
long as the dogs wear his tags.

 

CLAUDE LAVaArRRE, A.M. 1933, has been transferred
from Lima, Peru, to Havana, Cuba. His adress is care of
Singer Sewing Machine Company, Edificio Singer, San

Rafael 252 (Apartado 805), Havana, Cuba,

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Russ Pritchard Wins Honors

USS PRITCHARD, class of 1931, at the age of 29, is the

youngest man ever to be elected to the presidency of
the Memphis Cotton Carnival. This is a signal honor, as
it is considered the most important civic work in the city
of Memphis, and the event is one of the outstanding social
affairs of the South.

The Carnival Association
was organized in 1931 by a
group of men and women
who voluntarily gave of their
time and money to stimu-
late business, to increase the
consumption of cotton and
to foster friendliness
throughout the South.

This year’s Carnival,
which will be held May 9-12,
has the theme, “King Cot-
ton Goes Hollywood.” Plans
have been made to have
present a number of Holly-
wood stars and the moving
picture studios are cooper-
ating by furnishing equip-
ment and floats for the pa-
rades. The more important
events will be broadcast over
national hook-ups.

Since the beginning, the
-ach

Carnival has

year in size and importance

grown

and is now considered to be
rivaled only by the Mardi
Gras of New Orleans. The
five-day program will in-
clude the following events: Night arrival of the King and
Queen by barge on the Mississippi River, witnessed last
year by 250,000 people; five parades, one of which in-
cludes 100 bands; horse show; fashion show; golden
gloves boxing tournament; wrestling matches; cotton
textile show; A. A. U. track meet; and Beckman and
Gerety carnival shows.

While at Washington and Lee, Russ was a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity. Since returning to Mem-
phis, he has been one of the most active realtors in the city
and in addition to his other activities, he also is director

 

Russ Pritchard, 1931

in the Memphis Athletic Association, The Alta Holding
Company, Southwestern University Century Club, a
vestryman in St. John’s Episcopal Church and a mem-
ber of the Memphis Country Club.

Two years ago he was married to Miss Elizabeth Rice,
daughter of the late Frank
J. Rice, one of the outstand-
ing political leaders in the
history of the state of Ten-
nessee. He and his wife are
planning to return with a
group of friends to Finals
in June, 1939,

A short movie showing
the history and highlights of
Rockbridge County and
containing many shots of
Washington and Lee was
completed recently by the
l.exington Chamber of Com-
merce, and is being distrib-
uted for private showing to
clubs and schools through-
out the United States. The
film is distributed by the

State
tion Commission, which co-

Virginia Conserva-
operated with the lexing-
ton chamber in producing it.

 

IMDWARD S. DELAPLAINE,
of Frederick, Maryland,
class of 1913, was appoint-
ed in December, 1938, by
Governor Nice as chief judge of the Sixth Judicial Dis-
trict ; the appointment carries with it membership on the
Court of Appeals.

 

JAMES P. (Doc) Baker, LL.B. 1937. was among
those who passed the bar at Little Rock, Arkansas, in

January.

 

MARL LL, VALENTINE, class of 1926, recently was
elected president of Shenandoah Valley, Inc. Mr. Valen-
tine, now an attorney in Lexington, is president also of
the Lexington Chamber of Commerce.

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Allen Writes New Songs

THorton W. ALLEN, composer of the famous Wash-
ington and Lee Swing and many other well known college
songs, has collaborated with Milo Sweet, composer of
“Fight On For U. S. C.,” the popular Southern Cali-
fornia song, in the writing of the new song for Univer-
sity of Tennessee, “Fight, Vols, Fight,’ which was intro-
uced and featured by Ernest W. Hall and the big Volun-
teer Band at the Miami game on New Year’s Day. The
song was broadcast over a national hook-up during the
game and again in the evening.

Allen and Sweet also collaborated this fall in the writ-
ing of the two new University of Southern California
songs, “Let’s Go, Trojan” and “The Wooden Horse,”
and also the new U. C. L. A. song, “Stand Up For Blue
and Gold.” “Let’s Go, Trojans” was introduced and fea-
tured during the U. S. C.-Notre Dame game this fall and
again featured at the Rose Bowl game on New Year's
Day when it was broadcast several times over two na-
tional networks.

In addition to controlling the outstanding songs of
University of Southern California and Tennessee, Allen
controls the mechanical and public performing rights of
all Duke University songs and owns the copyrights of the
songs of Carnegie Tech, all of which colleges were New
Year Day contenders. In fact, the Allen Company now
owns or controls nearly one thousand college songs rep-
resenting most of the well known colleges from coast to
coast.

World’s Fair Exhibit for W. and L.

WASHINGTON AND LEE will be represented at the
New York World’s Fair this year by an exhibit of twenty-
five photographs showing various campus scenes.

The photographs, bound in an attractive album, will
be on display in the Virginia room at the Fair, and will be
in place when the exposition opens its doors to the public.

The Washington and Lee pictorial exhibit was se-
lected particularly to show the beauty of the campus, and
the pictures are arranged in sequence in an attempt to in-
troduce the World’s Fair visitor to Washington and Lee
in such a manner that he will want to visit the school. In-
cluded are photographs of Washington College, Lee
Chapel, Doremus Gymnasium, the Library, and other
buildings.

The exhibit was made possible through the coopera-
tion of Robert F. Nelson, director of publicity for the
Virginia State Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Nelson is in
charge of the Virginia photographic exhibits and invited
Washington and Lee to send a display. The prints, made
from existing negatives according to specifications by the

 

State Chamber, are being mounted and bound in an album
under Mr. Nelson’s direction in Richmond.

The display was compiled by Richard P. Carter, jour-
nalism faculty member and director of the Washington
and Lee News Bureau.

 

In Memoriam

Ropert W. WirHers, retired Tampa, Florida, attor-
ney and professor of law at Washington and Lee from
1912 to 1914, died in December, 1938, at a Tampa hos-
pital. He was 54 years old and had lived in Tampa for
twenty-four years.

Harpy BryANn BRANNER, class of 1869, treasurer of
the Standard Knitting Mills and former mayor of Knox-
ville, Tennessee, died at Knoxville December 8, 1938. He
was 87 years old. When elected mayor of Knoxville in
1880, Mr. Branner was the youngest man to hold that
office. He also was well known in Tennessee as a banker.

Dr. Huca Mercer BLain, who obtained his B.A.
and M.A. degrees from Washington and Lee in 1894 and
1895, and who founded the journalism departments at
Tulane, Loyola and Louisiana State University, died re-
cently at Crosby, Mississippi. He was 64 years old.

Earv S. Woop, LL.B. 1912, died recently at Tucson,
Arizona. He was well known as an attorney and as mu-
nicipal judge of Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

E. Warinc Witson, LL.B. 1898, lawyer and former
honorary British vice-consul in Philadelphia, died Jan-
uary 12 at his home in Bryn Mawr. He was special assist-

ant to the Attorney General of the United States from
1916 to 1918.

WALLER C. Harpy, class of 1904, well known Char-
leston, West Virginia, broker and banker, died January
21 at a Ronceverte, West Virginia, hospital. He was head
of the brokerage firm bearing his name, and was a vice-
president of Charleston and Lewisburg banks.

EK. VERNON Bupp.e, class of 1926, was killed last
month when the car he was driving crashed into an “el’’
pillar in Long Island City, Queens. He was well known
as a stock broker, and as a former professional dancer.

 

Marriage

Wa ty CarLTON BERNARD, class of 1937, and Miss

Ellane Victoria Lobsenz were married in New York City
November 24, 1938.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Commentary on Sports at the University

By Lea Booru, 1940
Student Assistant, Washington and Lee News Bureau

ET’S get specific and enumerate a few of the possibili-
ce ties that are at present attracting a couple of hundred
students over to the gymnasium every afternoon. Varsity
and frosh teams in basketball, wrestling, swimming, and
indoor track have converted white-columned Doremus into
a veritable beehive of activity.

If it stopped there, the situation would not be so press-
ing, but when you have several dozen baseball, tennis,
golf, lacrosse, track, and crew aspirants hanging around
trying to work into the sports picture at the slightest
provocation, then you've really got a bumper crop of con-
versation and sports jargon.

As an innocent by-stander, it’s intensely interesting,
approaching the nerve-wracking stage. As soon as you get
your mind on one sport, get enthusiastic about it all—
swish, comes along a nice wrestling meet or basketball
game and your previous interest takes the skids.

Try to make all the events on the winter calendar and
you go blind; try to combine these idle thoughts with the
spring sports that are slowly mooching into the scene and
you go crazy; ignore them all and you really have no
place at Washington and Lee.

Returning, however, to the men behind the scenes—
the coaching staffs:

There’s a splendid new addition to the animation
around Cap’n Dick’s office. His name is Riley Smith and
he’s been over early every morning helping ‘Tex ‘Tilson
get the cards stacked for about half a hundred spring
footballers who reported the middle of February.

Riley came to Lexington from Washington where he
had been quarterback with the potent Washington Red-
skins in the National Professional Football League for
the past three seasons. Prior to that time he had played
three years for Alabama, was co-captain in 1935 and led
the Crimson Tide to a victory in the Rose Bowl that
season.

His experience reaches into the all-star game series.
He captained the college all-stars one year against the
Chicago Bears, and on another occasion he quarterbacked
the Eastern Collegians against the West in the annual
New Year’s Day feature at San Francisco.

Personally, this second Smith fits in affably in the
Doremus offices and his future proteges have unanimously

tabbed him as another grand guy on the coaching staff
and one who will be a definite all-around asset.

For the past several weeks, Head Football Coach ‘Tex
Tilson and Smith, who will have charge of the backfield
functions, have been diligently burning the morning sun-
shine plus a little midnight oil on the side, contemplating
various systems of plays and phases of football. Spring
practice will consist of a seven weeks period of intensive
training, the first three of which are optional for upper
classmen and the remainder compulsory to all candidates
for positions next fall.

Maybe the coaches won't object to a little 1939 grid-
iron propaganda.

The backs should shape up better than in several
years. If some of the diamond-studded frosh backs can
push their scholastic training a little harder and remain
eligible, the new backfield coach will find plenty of putty
in his hands when the grind begins in earnest. On the
other hand, that powerful forward wall we raved over in
this same publication last fall has suffered several notable
losses that will make replacement extremely difficult.
Gone are Captain Bill Brown, a truly shipworthy leader,
“Joggin Joe’’ Ochsie, a fine all-state tackle, and a pair of
first string ends, Birnie Harper and Charlie Lykes. These
four holes will require a construction gang working in
two shifts to put the lid back on the Wahoos by next
Homecoming day (November 11).

A short review of the major winter sports would fol-
low along three or four general trails.

Quoting Coach Cy Young (strictly against his
wishes) : “Any baskketball club with a better than .500
average ought to rate a bid to the Southern Conference
tournament this year. It’s going to be mighty tough
through February but I think we have too great a ball
club not to be invited.”

And there’s the story, and one which rings true with
every sports writer around the family circle, which, by
means of passing, circumscribes Maryland, Virginia,
North and South Carolina.

A dog-fight all the way down the line, conference bas-
ketball games this year have forced only about two or
three of the 15 schools out of the running. While each is

[13]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Cap’n Dick Smith and baseball at Washington and Lee have
been almost synonymous for about two decades; he’s getting
this year’s nine lined up now and is not too optimistic
over the prospects.

lapping at the good neighbor’s throat, some half a dozen
teams apparently are emerging slightly more into the lime-
light. The Blue Comets, as the General basketeers have
heen tabbed by the sports writers, are holding their own
exceedingly well with Wake Forest, Maryland, Davidson
(definitely a dark horse), North Carolina State, and The
Citadel.

Sophomores almost from bumper to bumper, the
Comets have employed nothing more than sheer speed and
aggressiveness, coupled with some well-timed shooting
volleys, to make them the “coming basketball club” in the
Conference.

Miracles were out of their scope this season and they
have taken lickings, as was to be expected. The “Voice of
Inexperience” spoke loudly when they met Kentucky,
Roanoke, George Washington, Carolina, and Wake For-
est. When good sophomores get together, anything is
liable to happen. But they still may pick up enough of the
Conference inside tricks to have an outside crack at a
title somewhere down the line. All of this will be brought
to the fore at the annual tourney in Raleigh, the first week
in March.

There is only one junior in the starting line-up at pres-
ent. He is Ronnie Thompson of Rockville Center, New
York. Ronnie has been acting as captain in most of the
ball games and is a truly great competitor. His boundless
energy and stamina under heavy pressure have brought
out his qualifications as a “money player” and the sophs
have not belittled his steadying hand on several occasions.
‘The feature of the whole analysis lies in the fact that all
these boys, barring scholastic difficulties (and incidentally

there are several dean’s list men on the squad) will be
back next season.

This writer predicts one of the greatest ball clubs in
Washington and Lee and Southern Conference history
for the Generals in 1939-1940.

Meanwhile, as the Blue Comets go rollicking along, as
regular as the hour glass on the professor’s desk, Coach
Archie Mathis comes up with another of those great
wrestling teams. Perennially, the General mat rollers are
tops around the Conference, and usually intersectionally
command considerable respect.

To date, Mathis’ men have gone undefeated and have
an excellent chance of maintaining this pace. Victories
have been registered over the Richmond Y. M. C. A.,
North Carolina, and Northwestern in succession. ‘The
Northwestern meet, which the Generals took 21-11 with
three pins and a pair of decisions while losing two de-
cisions and one forfeit, was one of the most exciting ever
held in Lexington. Spotting the Big Ten ambassadors
eight points in the first two bouts through a forfeit and
the decisioning of Captain Bob Kemp by Captain ‘Taylor
of the visitors, the Blue matmen were forced to come
from down under. George McInerney took a fast fall in
the 136-pound class, time 1:20; Jack Broome won an in-
disputed decision in the 145-pound bout to even it up;
then Charlie Bowles, a fast and furious 155-pounder,
pinned his man and the Generals were out in front per-
manently. Barney Farrier, one of the smoother General
groaners, took another decision to maintain his status quo
as undefeated through the season, then Henry Braun
felled an extremely muscular 175-pounder from the Mid-
Western school and the meet was locked up.

Although the annual Conference grappling tourney
will not be held this year, the Generals have scheduled
three more league meets with North Carolina State at
Raleigh, Virginia Tech at Blacksburg and Davidson Col-
lege at home. An undefeated record through the re-
mainder of the schedule will give the Blue a claim, at
least, to the Conference title.

As this article goes to press, the unpredictable General
swimmers, under their popular mentor, Cy Twombly,
again this year, had just protected one of the most re-
inarkable records ever compiled by any Southern Con-
ference athletic team. When the Generals defeated Vir-
ginia Tech 51-24 on February 9, they laid dead on the line
a record of fity-two (52) consecutive victories in dual
meet competition. In addition, they have been Conference
title holders for four years.

Restful nights come at a premium to Cy these days,
however. Graduation virtually deadened his squad for

[14]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

this season. Brent Farber, his ace dash man, and Charlie
Hart are practically the only veterans available. Rookies
can be developed, and no one knows this any better than
observers who have followed Twombly’s teams in the
past. lean years have been profusely filled with sunshine
by Cy’s sheer patience with his less talented mermen.
Smoothing out rough spots has become traditional and
the practice for some seasons has been to develop his
teams rather than to merely carry an outfit of athletic
marvels through a schedule. With this in mind, we dare
not prognosticate the future for any team with which
Coach Cy Twombly has a hand.

Should this year actually prove “lean”? for the swim-
mers, it will in all probability be one in a million—why ?
The freshmen are nothing short of sensational. The “kids”
registered a swashbuckling victory over Fishburne, one
of the better prep outfits of the State, and in so doing,
broke a 200-yard relay record for the Doremus pool. It is
seldom a frosh team breaks a pool record, so if Cy feels
at all lugubrious over his varsity, he can find solace in re-
joicing over his frosh.

And so you have heard the story of the winter sports
teams. Without the use of a detailed study, spring sports
will be definitely improved this season, all the way around.

saseball candidates are captainless with the loss of
Captain-elect Roy Dart, the Generals’ ace hurler, resigned
from the University ; but on the other hand, Cap’n Dick
is happier than he’s been since the days of Emerson Dick-
man. There are some-up-and-coming sophs, some potent
looking transfers, and the old men are more spirited than
ever before.

Golf should raise its keel above the Conference stan-
dard with some neat-looking sophs to turn the stream on
the dominating Duke clubbers. Billy Avent, a top-flight
man in any man’s tournament and winner of the Asheville,
North Carolina, Country Club tourney last summer as
well as several Florida state tournaments, is the key man
among the rookies. In addition, a Louisville boy, Jimmy
surkholder, who barely defeated Avent in the all-
University tourney last spring, is consistently a great
golfer with national ranking among the juniors. Bill
srown, the football captain and likewise head knocker
among the linksmen, will enhance the Generals’ chances
with his several years’ experience around the Conference.
Karl Morgan, a local boy, comes up for his second year of
varsity competition. So it seems that Cy T'wombly’s mis-
apprehensions will be well discarded when the sunshine
turns on for good this spring. The Conference tourney is
set for Pinehurst, North Carolina.

With Coach Forest Fletcher back in the city follow-
ing a uropean trip for his health, the track squad will be

 

Forest Fletcher, head of the department of physical education
and the Generals’ track coach, returned to his desk this month;
he was in France six months recuperating from his
illness last summer.

outdoors with clear weather. Frankly, this writer, ad-
mittedly not the best informed on this year’s track pros-
pects, should best turn to the field events.

Riley Smith’s discus record is still tops at the Univer-
sity of Alabma and his own experience as a weight man
may be brought in to increase the marks of shot-putter
Dick Boisseau, Jack Watson of the discus, and others.
Not for certain, but we have an idea that they'll be rav-
ing over lacrosse down in this section before very long.

In the first year this somewhat slam-bang sport was
launched at Washington and Lee, the coaching of Dr.
Larkin Farinholt of the chemistry faculty carried the
boys, most of them freshmen, through a tough schedule
with a minimum of reversals.

ver more powerful this year, and strong contenders
to wrest the Dixie lacrosse championship from Virginia,
Captain Johnny Alnutt, who practically single-handed
founded the sport here, will lead a select array of stick:
men down the Dixie turfs this spring.
all-Dixie men,
‘aul Gourdon. Hen-

Alnutt will be fortified by a pair of
Sherman (Skippy) Henderson and
derson was the league’s high scorer last season. Kvery
man from last year’s squad is available this season and in
addition, two freshmen, Ed Boyd and Frank LaMotte,
both of whom were all-state prep men in Maryland last
year while operating for St. Paul’s school of Baltimore.

The schedule calls for Navy B, Lehigh, Westchester
Teachers, Virginia, Swarthmore, Duke, Carolina, Loyola,
and possibly others.

[15]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Glee Club, 1939

Story of the Washington and Lee Glee Club

By Rosert Espy, Class of 1941

ISING, as have so many movements of the past century,
from an editorial page, a movement for the organi-
zation of a Glee Club at Washington and Lee began in
The Ring-tum Phi in its issue of October 30, 1897. The
call evidently fell on the ears of eager and able listeners,
for within eighteen months, on May 5, 1898, the newly-
formed group presented H.M/.S. Pinafore, in the best
Gilbert and Sullavan style, at the Lexington Opera House.
With such a successful start the club grew in size and
reputation, and in 1915 it was combined with other cam-
pus musical organizations, the new group being placed
under the direction of Miss Eutha Young. In 1921 and
1922 the combined clubs, with the aid of a novelty or-
chestra, presented ‘“Let’s Dance” and “Mlle. Gaby,” musi-
cal comedies by John A. Graham. In the following years
came joint concerts with the Glee Clubs of Hollins, Sweet
Briar, Southern Seminary, and Mary Baldwin.
The Glee Club continued on its successful way until
the fall of 1937, when a surge of lethargy and indifference

seized its members, forcing the director to abandon his
work, and leaving the campus without a Glee Club. Sev-
eral abortive attempts were made to continue with a
greatly reduced membership under the direction of a
student leader, but these failed. Thus at the beginning of
the year 1938-39, with a reputation from by-gone per-
formances as its only heritage, the Glee Club had to start
“from scratch.”

Several conditions combined to make the outcome of
this new beginning seem favorable—funds for new music
were secured, among the incoming freshmen was an un-
usually large number of talented and enthusiastic singers,
and the newly-employed director of campus musical or-
ganizations took over the job of instructing and training
the Club.

Tryouts were held in September, with over seventy
men applying for admission to the Club, fifty of whom
were accepted. These men rehearsed faithfully during the
first term and were thus able to present a concert before

[16]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the Christmas holidays. A few of these members having
been caught by the automatic rule, and some having found
other interests, the Club now consists of approximately
forty men. Because of the expense of traveling it has
been felt that the Club should be reduced still further, to
approximately thirty-five picked men.

The present roster of the Glee Club is: F. S. Kirk-
patrick, Lynchburg, Virginia; C. A. Lemkuhl, Jr., Char-
leston, West Virginia; C. H. Lanier, Lethbridge, Alberta,
Canada; E. W. Brockman, Pine Bluff, Arkansas; F. W.
Hynson, Washington, D. C.; R. V. Hersey, New Bed-
ford, Massachusetts; J. D. Durham, Pleasantville, New
York; R. B. Espy, Dothan, Alabama; J. K. McMurran,
II, Newport News, Virginia; B. W. Lee, Jr., Hampton,
Virginia; L. Wolfe, Jr., Ridgewood, New Jersey; E. D.
Chase, Jr., Coral Gables, Florida; A. E. Basile, Brook-
lyn, New York; W. R. Read, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ;
A. $. Lanier, Saluda, Virginia; N. C. Steenland, Palisades
Park, New York; A. B. Koontz, Jr., Charleston, West
Virginia; C. L. Robinson, Tazewell, Virginia; J. R.
Camm, Johnstown, New York; J. B. Furr, Picayune,
Mississippi; F. K. Yeoman, Jonesville, Wisconsin; R. T.
Vaughan, South Boston, Virginia; G. F. Parton, Jr.,
Bronxville, New York; B. E. Jasper, Glencoe, Illinois;
J. C. Fix, Lexington, Virginia; N. H. Brown, Cincinnati,
Ohio; E. M. Fountain, Houston, Texas; R. A. Brunn,
New York, New York; W. M. Atlee, Maitland, Florida:
EK. C. Alevizatos, Baltimore, Maryland; G. W. Carlson,
Mount Vernon, New York; D. S. Carnahan, Jr., Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania; H. D. Jones, Jr., Oak Park, Illinois ;
I, P. Seibert, Jr., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; W. J.
Wilkins, Pine Bluff, Arkansas; P. C. Thomas, Jr., Blue-
field, West Virginia; R. H. Payne, Jr., Overland, Mis-
souri; H. McCulloch, Jr., St. Louis, Missouri; and J. C.
Kasterberg, Winnetka, Illinois.

Ross Hersey, of New Bedford, Massachusetts, has
headed the organization as president, and has been as-
sisted by Frank Hynson, vice-president; Robert Espy,
manager; and Macaulay Howard, librarian. In addition
to the regular club, there is a quartet and a double quar-
tet, both of which are available for engagements when
the whole club cannot be accommodated.

The first concert of the season was held in conjunction
with the Mary Baldwin Glee Club in the Mary Baldwin
auditorium at Staunton, Virginia. This concert was fol-
lowed by a Christmas candle-light service in the Robert
E. Lee Episcopal Church in Lexington, under auspices of
the Christian Council of Washington and Lee. In Jan-
uary a return concert with the Mary Baldwin Club filled
Lee Chapel, and on February 13 the Club sang the Bach
Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring, accompanied by the Vir-
ginia State Symphony Orchestra. Other concerts have

been scheduled for the spring, and the prospects at the
present point to another successful season.

The music of the Glee Club has been chosen with the
idea of suiting all tastes. The program is made up of num-
bers ranging from the medieval chant of St. Francis and
an early French canticle to Moussouzsky’s “The Flea”
and the traditional air, “The British Grenadiers.” ‘There
is music of the Russian Church, melodies of Stephen
Foster, and folk music of both America and England.

After a successful semester, and with the prospect of
an even more successful spring season, the Glee Club has
high hopes and ambitions for its future. With the basis
well laid for a new and more enviable reputation, it hopes
not only to equal the music clubs of other schools in Vir-
ginia, but also to perform with and for those of the
hitherto uninvaded North.

The Glee Club at present is housed on the second floor
of the Troubadour Theatre. Not entirely satisfied with
the condition or location of the room, the officials of the
Club hope to secure a new and larger meeting place, which
will be conducive to making of the organization a club in
fact as well as in name. It is hoped that eventually there
will be a club room as well as a practice hall for the
members.

The importance of a Glee Club to Washington and
Lee cannot be stressed too much even by an enthusiast.
An institution with the traditions and obligations which
Washington and Lee has, must have suitable and adequate
musical organizations. In reply to a request from the
alumni of Washington, D. C., the Glee Club recently sent
a quartet to their annual banquet, and hopes that it can
answer every other similar request which is made of it.

 

W. W. Forxes, LL.B. 1935, has announced his as-
sociation with Park Street, class of 1931, in the practice
of law in San Antonio, Texas. Their offices are in the
Milam Building.

SAMUEL A. Martin, LL.B. 1938, and Charles W.
Wilkinson, also LL.B. 1938, have announced the open-
ing of law offices at Pearisburg, Virginia. Both formerly
lived in Roanoke.

 

 

WILFRED J. Rirz, member of the class of 1938, has
been named assistant to the director of research of the
Virginia State Chamber of Commerce, with headquarters
in Richmond.

 

LAST MINUTE BASKETBALL NOTE: The Generals, by
defeating William and Mary and Richmond in succession,
assured themselves of an invitation to the Southern Con-
ference tournament in Raleigh. Scores in the two games

were: W-L, 46, W-M 37; W-L, 34, Richmond 31.

[17]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

The New Alumni Council

HE newly-formed Alumni Council of the Washington
Tan lee Alumni Association is proving popular with
the various alumni chapters and as a result the general
alumni association and its work will be ‘““more representa-
tive’ of the old grads as a whole.

The plan was launched at the alumni meeting last
June, when it was agreed that the Association had reached
a point where it was firmly established. It was felt that
under the Alumni Council scheme more alumni could be
reached and in turn have voices in affairs of the general
association.

Each chapter, under the plan, will have a member on
the Council. This, it was agreed, will lead to a “more rep-
resentative means” of carrying out the work of the As-
sociation.

In other words, the general alumni organization of
Washington and Lee now becomes “thoroughly demo-
cratic.” Perhaps a better understanding of the new set-up
can be obtained from the following resolution, adopted
October 21, 1938, and effective immediately :

“Subject to all the rights and powers vested in the
Board of ‘Trustees by the charter of this Corporation, the
affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted by an Alumni
Council, which shall be composed of the members of the
Board of Trustees, elected as provided in the charter and
by-laws of the Corporation, together with one representa-
tive of each local organization or alumni chapter which
shall conform to requirements prescribed by the Board of
‘Trustees.

“Each alumni chapter or other local organization af-
filiated with this Corporation shall have the right to desig-
nate, in such manner as it may prescribe, one of its mem-
bers to serve as a member of the Alumni Council for one
year commencing with the close of each annual meeting
of the Corporation ; provided such alumni chapter or other
local organization shall have been duly organized in a
manner approved by the Board of Trustees of the Cor-
poration, and shall have held at least one meeting during
the year preceding the term of such representative, and
shall have conformed to such other reasonable require-
ments as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees,
from time to time. Each alumni chapter or other local or-
ganization having the right to designate a member of the
Alumni Council, shall make its selection of a represen-
tative prior to the date of the annual meeting of the Cor-
poration, for the ensuing term, and_ shall notify the

Alumni Secretary of its choice before the close of such
annual meeting.

“The retiring president of this Corporation, and the
retiring president of the student body of the University
shall be members, ex-officio, of the Alumni Council for
one year from the expiration of the term of their respec-
tive offices.

“The Alumni Council shall hold its annual meeting
prior to the annual meeting of the Corporation, and at
such other times as may be designated by the president of
the Corporation, or by call of not less than ten members
of such council, provided notice of such called meeting
is conveyed to the members thereof in person, or by mail,
telephone, telegraph or other customary means of com-
munication, not less than ten days preceding the date of
such meeting. A quorum for the transaction of business
at any meeting of the Alumni Council shall be ten of its
entire membership.

“The officers of the Corporation shall be like officers
of the Alumni Council.

“The Board of ‘Trustees, elected in the manner here-
inafter provided, shall be an executive committee of the
Alumni Council and shall, in the interim between meet-
ings of such council, exercise all its proper functions and
powers, and shall transact all other necessary business of
the Corporation. Members of the Board shall be elected
according to the provisions of the charter, for a term ex-
piring at the close of the alumni meeting of the Corpora-
tion held three years subsequent to the commencement of
the term of membership. Any trustee may be removed
from office at any annual meeting of the Corporation by
a majority vote of the members present and voting. Meet-
ings of the Board of ‘Trustees, as such, or as the executive
committee of the Alumni Council, shall be held at such
times as may be designated by the president or upon call
of any two members of such board, upon like notice as is
required for called meetings of the Alumni Council. A
quorum for the meetings of such board or executive com-
mittee shall consist of a majority of the members thereof.

“In the event of a vacancy upon the Board of Trus-
tees, such vacancy shall be filled by the Board of ‘Trustees
for the unexpired portion of such term.

“The foregoing provisions shall become effective from
the date of adoption, and the secretary is directed to notify
each alumni chapter or other local organization of this

(Continued on page 20)

[18]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Lynchburg

THOMAS FULLER Torrey, II, was elected president
of the Lynchburg Alumni Chapter of Washington and
Lee University at a meeting held at Boonsboro Country
Club January 19. He succeeds Reed E. Graves.

Peyton B. Winfree, Jr., was re-elected vice-president
and A. L. Burger, secretary-treasurer. All of the elec-
tions were by acclamation.

On the motion of William T. Spencer, Jr., the chap-
ter approved a resolution thanking the Faculty Committee
on Athletics and the Board of Trustees for consideration
of a request made by the Lynchburg alumni in regard to
athletics at the University.

Mr. ‘Torrey announced he would attempt to have the
chapter meet at least three times during the year, with
a guest speaker for each meeting. He appointed executive,
scholarship, and dance committees to take charge of the
chapter's various functions.

Attending the meeting were: O. B. Barker, Jr., R. M.
Barker, W. J. D. Bell, Jr., H. S. Bryant, A. L. Burger,
J. S. Caskie, Raymond Cundiff, Dr. John W. Devine, Jr.,
Hugh Ebert, EK. C. Glass, Thomas W. Graves, Reed E.
Graves, Fred M. Davis, Thomas M. Martin, W. W.
Lynn, Dr. C. H. Patterson, Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., Dr.
D. R. Phelps, R. D. Ramsey, O. C. Rucker, 'T. F. ‘Tor-
rey, Jimmy Watts, Samuel H. Williams, C. B. Wiltshire,
P. B. Winfree, Jr., E. M. Wood, Jr., W. K. Allen of Am-

herst, and Robert A. Russell of Rustburg.

°
Baltimore

THE BALTIMORE ALUMNI Association held its an-
nual meeting on Thanksgiving Eve, preceding the Mary-
land-Washington and Lee football game. The meeting
was held at the Longfellow Club, with a very good at-
tendance. Jim Milbourne, retiring president, presided,
and short talks were made by Cy Young and Dick Smith.

Fred Valz, 1912, of Jacksonville, Florida, was a guest,
and addressed the gathering.

One of our most distinguished Baltimore alumni,
Roberdeau McCormick, class of 1879, was present, and
when introduced was given an ovation.

The following officers for the coming year were
elected: A. H. Chandler, 1909, president ; Ralph Hanger,
1923, secretary. W. Carroll Mead, 1925, was elected as
the Baltimore representative on the newly-formed Alumni
Council,

Upper Potomac

THE NEWLY-FORMED Upper Potomac Chapter of
Washington and Lee alumni was formally organized at a
December meeting at the Fort Cumberland Hotel, Cum-
berland, Maryland. Kleven alumni of the Tri-State area
attended.

General plans for participation in alumni activities of
the University were formulated, and plans were made for
a meeting during the University’s spring holiday. Alumni,
students, and prospective students will be invited to the
meeting.

The group elected L. Leslie Helmer, president; Paul
D. Pickens, vice-president ; and John W. Barger, of Key-
ser, West Virginia, secretary-treasurer.

Other alumni attending were William L. Wilson, Jr.,
Clarence H. Stein, Manning Williams, Don Moore, J.
Goodlie Jackson, Alex Sloan and James A. Black of
Cumberland, and Karl ‘Keith of Meyersdale, Pa.

Louisville

Mork THAN 100 alumni and friends of the University
attended the annual dinner of the Louisville chapter of
Washington and Lee alumni at the Brown Hotel in Louis-
ville on January 12. |

Principal speaker was Dr. Gaines, and guests included
W. 8. Milburn, principal of the Louisville Male High
School, and a group of students from that school.

Those who attended included: FE. D. Axton, 77, leew:
Axton, Sr., Mr. and Mrs. Robert 'T. Foree, Wilson Orr,
Krnest Walker and his mother, Dr. Denman Hucherson,
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Davis, Ed. Dodd, Tilford Paine,
Jr., Dr. Aleck Bate, Mr. and Mrs. George E. Burks, Dan
Dunn, Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Helm, Temple Lewis, Bob
Burnett, Charles Mercke, Mr. and Mrs. George Mercke,
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Hobson, Robert Cooper, ‘Tom
Nugent and sister, Edith, Bill Chandler, Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Tabb, Peel Rivers, Dr. and Mrs. Rivers, Mr. and
Mrs. Greenberry Simmons, Mr. and Mrs. James Veech,
Marty Kaplan, and Henry Hill.

Guests: Dr. Gaines, Professor and Mrs. Milburn.
Male High students: Everett Horn, Walter Henninger,
Lawrence Coyte, Thomas Walker, Morrison Nelson,
Jimmy Evans, and Otis Richardson.

Parents of present students: Mr. and Mrs. Luther
Stein, Mr. and Mrs. S. S. Collins, Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Krieger, Mrs. Wm. E. Whaley, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest

[19]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Woodward, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Ward, Mr. and Mrs.
B. F. Ogden, and Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Blanford.

Tri-State

ON THE EVENING of January 19, 1939, General Lee’s
birthday, the Tri-State Alumni Association, which in-
cludes Huntington, West Virginia, Ashland, Kentucky,
and surrounding towns and vicinity, held its annual
Founder’s Day dinner meeting in the Crystal Room of the
Hotel Frederick, Huntington, West Virginia. A. W.
Mann, president, presided.

The principal speaker was Dr. Walter A. Flick, head
of the Department of Psychology and Education at
Washington and Lee. Dr. Flick’s address was highly en-
tertaining and informative, and following his address
there was a general round table discussion of matters per-
taining to the welfare of the University, principally ath-
letics. The Association extends to Dr. Flick its thanks and
appreciation for attending the meeting and contributing
greatly to its success and enjoyment.

Officers elected for the coming year were Joseph W.
Fitchett, Huntington, president ; E. Paul Williams, Ash-
land, Kentucky, vice-president; E. H. Long, Hunting-
ton, treasurer; Amos A. Bolen, Huntington, secretary ;
A. Wendell Mann, Ashland, Kentucky, member of
Alumni Council.

Those attending the meeting were: William T. Lov-
ings, 1914 Law; Selden S. McNeer, 1916 Law; G. W.
Kellar, 1904; A. W. Mann, 1915 Law; Joseph W. Fit-
chett, 1924; Richard M. Gumm, 1936; Bob Morris, 1933;
Clifford N. Goff, Jr., 1937; A. G. M. Grimes, 1905 and
1906; Ira P. Baer, 1903 and 1904; Joe W. Dingess, 1921;
C. R. Weinberger, 1916; E. H. Long, 1921; Amos Bolen,
1937 Law; E. Paul Williams, 1930; Benson J. Lubin,
1912 Law; R. Lee Beuhring, 1914 Law; Philip P. Gib-
son, 1913 and 1915; Joe A. McVay, 1932 Law; H. P.
Asbury, 1923 Law; and G. D. Mayer, 1926.

A proposal was submitted to the Association for a
reorganization upon the basis of a dues paying member-
ship with the idea that in the territory covered by the As-
sociation 100 members could be obtained at $10 each per
year, the funds derived from the payment of dues less
Association expenses, to be used to assist worthy appli-
cants to attend the University. The funds could also be
used in other ways for the advancement of the welfare of
Washington and Lee. A committee will be appointed by
the newly-elected president to work out this proposition.

‘The Association sends greetings to the University and
all those who are engaged in the administration of its af-
fairs, with the assurance that this Association hopes to
be helpful in any way possible.

Greensboro

ALUMNI OF THE Piedmont Carolinas Association met
in Greensboro January 19 and elected Frank O. Steele
president to succeed Larry Wilson, Sr., who resigned be-
cause of increasing business responsibilities. Larry W.
Wilson, Jr., was named veie-president, and Clarence
Woods, Jr., secretary-treasurer. Mr. Steele also was
named representative on the newly-formed Alumni
Council.

The new Piedmont Carolinas president is with the
l‘eeral Department of Internal Revenue, and lives at 907
Courtland Street, Greensboro.

 

The New Alumni Council

(Continued from page 18)

action, with the request that each chapter, or other local
organization, shall forthwith designate its proper repre-
sentative for the term expiring at the close of the next
annual meeting of the Corporation, and shall further
notify the absent members of the Board of Trustees and
the president of the student body of Washington and Lee
University of the foregoing provisions.”

 

The Independent College ?

(Continued from page 3)

step toward totalitarianism in this country would be the
domination of all learning by the power of politics that
at the moment commands a national majority.

x * *

The independent colleges hope from alumni a com-
prehension of these tendencies and a firmness of resolu-
tion, a generous aggressive loyalty, that these currents of
federalization shall not engulf the private colleges. What-
ever may be the future of this country, for example, that
future will stand in need of the ideals of such institutions
as this one, ideals enriched by Washington’s benevolence,
by Lee’s life.

FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES,
President

 

BrIAN BELL, class of 1911, one of America’s better
known newspapermen, has been named chief of the Wash-
ington bureau of the Associated Press. Mr. Bell was
transferred to Washington from the Pacific coast, where
he was news editor for the western division of the Asso-
ciated Press.

[20]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1893

BENTON $. RubE is Commissioner of the Legislative
Bill Drafting Commission of the State of New York. His
home is at Delmar, New York, a suburb of Albany.

J. T. Morcan is a member of the firm of J. T. Mor-
gan and Company, Real Estate and Investments, Union
Planters Bank Building. His son, Bill, is in his second
year at Washington and Lee, being the last of four sons
to attend the University.

1897

Dr. Mossy G. PErRRow is city health officer, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

Dr. LeRoy C. BARRE?’ is professor of Latin in ‘Trin-
ity College, Hartford, Connecticut.

1898

CoLonEL W. W. WuiresInk is officer in charge of the
Front Royal, Virginia, Remount Station.

R. H. Rocrrs is with the San Diego Stove and Ap-
pliance Company, of San Diego, California.

Dr. Ruret E. Esersoie has been living in Norfolk,
Virginia, since his retirement from the United States
Marine Corps in 1927.

Dr. R. T. SuHreEvps is still in Tsinan, Shantung, China.
The hospital was reported still in operation there, al-
though the Medical School connected with
it was moved to Chengtu in West China in

October, 1937.
1899

CoLoNEL ArTHUR M. Suipp has retired
from the United States Army and is living
at 2550 Granda Way South, St. Petersburg,
Florida. He gets back to Lexington, his na-
tive town, frequently to visit his sister, Mrs.
Benjamin Huger.

PAUL S$. FELDER is president of Philip .
Werlein, Ltd., New Orleans, Louisiana. He
has three grown daughters, two married.
‘No boys, however, to send to the old Uni-
versity.”

 

1900

Hivron S. HAmPp’on is a member of the law firm of
Hampton, Bull & Crom, with offices in the Citizens Bank
Building, Tampa, Florida.

1902

HucH Wactace Kirkpatrick lives in Richmond,
Virginia. His address is 1237 Mutual Building.

W. Marcettus JERKINS has recently invented an air

motor which he hopes soon to get on the market. He lives
at Round Lake, Florida.

RicHarp P. DANIEL is practicing law in the Florida
National Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida, under the
firm name of Daniel & Thompson. He is married and has
two daughters and one son, the latter now a Junior at
Princeton. Was recently appointed attorney for the State
Road Department. He meets Washington and Lee alumni
throughout Florida, most of whom are useful and influ-
ential men in their respective communities.

WituiAm H. Matons is practicing law. in Biscayne
Building, Miami, Florida. He was in the State Senate for
many years, and Mayor of Miami.

WittiaM H. Brown is a member of the law firm of
Jarman, Brown, Looney and Watts, Ramsey ‘Tower, Ok-
lahoma City, Oklahoma. He was Judge of the District
Court of the Fifth Judicial District of Oklahoma for
eight years and in 1929 was made Assistant Attorney
General of the State of Oklahoma, which
office he held until 1931. He is now actively
engaged in the practice of law in a firm
representing many oil companies and insur-
ance, casualty and bonding companies.

1903

D. R. PuEtps has been practicing his
profession of dentistry for thirty years in
Lynchburg, Virginia.

SAMUEL McP. GLascow has been pas-
mili! tor of the Independent Presbyterian Church
of Savannah, Georgia, for the past seven
years, and before that spent eleven years as

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Knoxville,
Tennessee.

A. C. BuURKHOLDER is professor of Economics and
Sociology in Southwest Texas State Teachers College at
San Marcos, Texas. He has a wife, a son and a daughter.

B. B. SHIVELY lives in Marion, Indiana.

1904

J. B. Axers has been working in the Maintenance of
Way Department of the Southern Railway since leaving
college in 1904, which has carried him all over the South.

His address is Box 1808, Washington, D. C.

Sotomon W. SCHAEFER is a physician in Colorado
Springs, Colorado. Owns a ranch about thirty miles from
Colorado Springs. His two children are growing up and
his daughter, the elder, will soon be ready for college.
Goes East frequently for medical meetings.

1905

Artuur BirrLe OBENSCHAIN is pastor of St. Step-
hens Evangelical Church (Lutheran), Lexington, South
Carolina. The degree of D.D. was conferred on him from
Newberry College in 1930. He is married and has three
children, one girl and two boys.

R. A. LAPSLEY, JR., is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Roanoke, Virginia.

1906

L.. J. Desua, Professor of Chemistry at Washington
and Lee, has written and recently published a textbook,
Organic Chemistry, which has been accepted for use in a
large number of colleges and universities.

J. F. Cuarvton lives in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
where he has been for the past twelve years; at first, en-
gineering only, but later took up appraisals and now is
engaged principally in selling real estate.

Sam L,. Peery is a park engineer, National Park Ser-
vice, Pineville, Kentucky. After spending fifteen years in
railroad work on location, he left the service for a year’s
leave of absence in 1932, and then went into work with
the National Park Service. The nature of his work is lo-
cation and construction of park roads and foot trails,
landscaping, tree and plant culturist. He says he has not
met a single member of the class of 1916 since he left
Lexington.

1907

A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Florida, has a son in his
fourth year at Washington and Lee. Has been pastor of
the Plant City Presbyterian Church for twenty years.

1908

Dozier DEVANE has resigned his position with the
I‘ederal Power Commission and is practicing law under
the firm name of DeVane, Andrews and Patterson, in
Orlando, Florida, with offices in the Florida Bank
Building.

Joun W. Newman has been practicing law in Little
Rock, Arkansas, since 1910. His offices are in the Pyra-
mid Building.

WiLtiAmM P. Hooper is minister of the Highlawn
Presbyterian Church, Huntington, West Virginia. He is
married and has a daughter, now a junior, in college.

W. S. Granam has been in the wholesale coal busi-
ness since 1910, first as district manager of the Crozier
Pocahontas Company with headquarters at Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, and from 1928 to the present time, district manager
of the Kroppers Coal Company with headquarters at Nor-
folk, in charge of the Southern territory from Virginia to
Florida. He is married and has three children, a daughter
and two sons.

Epwarp H. Deets is farming at his old home about
thirty miles from Washington and also in the life insur-
ance business in Clarksburg, Maryland. He has a son, E.d-
ward, Jr., twelve years old, and one daughter, Sarah,
seven.

1909

C. I. Carty is engaged in the active practice of law
under the firm name of Carey & Harrison in the Florida
National Bank Building, St. Petersburg, Florida. He is
a past president of the St. Petersburg Bar Association
and has served in the Legislature of the State of Florida.
He is a Phi Beta Kappa of long standing. The Careys
have three sons.

Ewinc S. Humpureys has been district manager for
the Southeastern District of the Virginia Bridge Com-
pany in Atlanta for over fifteen years. Has a son who will
be a freshman at Washington and Lee in two years.

WiLuiAM T. DELAPLAINE, West Fourth Street, I*red-
erick, Maryland, has a son in his fourth year at Washing-
ton and Lee.

[22]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

BERNIE BoRCHARDT is practicing law at 410% Frank-
lin Street, Tampa, Florida. Writes books “on the side.”
Says he is in the throes of the last chapter of a book he has
dashed off in fourteen years.

1910

Hucu R. HAwrnornks is vice-president of the Poca-
hontas Fuel Company, Inc., No. 1 Broadway, New York.

LeRoy Hopcks resigned as director of the Bureau of
Old-Age Insurance, Social Security Board, at Washing-
ton last March, to accept appointment under the new
Governor of Virginia, James H. Price,
as Comptroller of the Commonwealth of
Virginia.

R. M. StraAsseEt has been incapaci-
tated by arthritis for about nine years
and is confined frequently to his home. .
He frequently sees Washington and Lee
men from Louisville, Kentucky, his old
home.

1911

A. Dana Hopcpon is a member of
the staff of the American Consulate,
Berlin, Germany. His oldest son is in
the Episcopal High School and later will
come to Washington and Lee. The second son has been
going to school in England and will enter the Episcopal
High School this year.

C. W. THArRPE is in the firm of Hardie & Caudle,
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Dr. C. A. Boone received his medical education at the
University of Louisville Medical School, practiced three
years in Florida and has been practicing in Louisville,
Kentucky, for the past twenty years. He has three sons.

CLEMENTS MCMULLEN was an officer pilot during the
World War, and after the war, having become enamoured
with flying, he continued in the army as a flying officer.
Since that time he has served in many places and capaci-
ties which army service prescribes, having visited and
flown in all continents except Africa and Australia. At the
present time is completing a year’s course in the army’s
Command and General Staff School, a training school in
the technique of directing large units of an army.

SAMUEL O. Pruitt took his M.D. degree at the Uni-
versity of Maryland, Baltimore. The succeeding twenty-
two years have been spent practicing the healing arts and
rearing a family: two years were spent with the British

 

and American Armies in France, four years as medical
missionary in China, and the last eight years as medical
director of the Pennsylvania Tuberculosis Society. His
oldest boy is in his second year at Washington and Lee
and there are several younger brothers who may succeed
him. There is a girl in between who is in high school.

1912

Rosert C. Dow, of Amarillo, Texas, is counsel for
the U. S. Department of Agriculture there. He has held
many offices. He was a member of the New Mexico Leg-
islature, prosecuting attorney, attorney
general of New Mexico and in 1928
Democratic nominee for governor of
that state.

ArLos J. Harper? is judge of the
Criminal Court of Harrison County,
Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Gustave B. Dub ky is an eye, ear,
nose and throat doctor, Dudley Build-
ing, Martinsville, West Virginia. He
practiced his profession from 1919 to
1923 in Danville, Virginia. Since that
time he has been in Martinsville.

GRAHAM Woop is minister of the
Centerville Presbyterian Church, Greenville, West Vir-
ginia. Has recently completed his twenty-fifth year in the
ministry, and his thirteenth year in this field. The Woods
have three daughters and one son.

Francis J. HEAZEL lives at Asheville, North Carolina.
He practiced at Roanoke for two years, Kingsport, ‘Ten-
nessee, until 1922, where he was city attorney, and has
lived at Asheville since. He has three children.

1913

EUGENE C. DickERSON is practicing law in Roanoke,
Virginia, with offices in the Liberty Trust Building.

H. M. MInnice has been with the firm of F. W. Wil-
liams, General Agents of the Fidelity and Guaranty Fire
Corporation of Baltimore, since leaving college. He lives
in Meridian, Mississippi. Is married and has a son.

1914

LEON O’QUINN is a member of the law firm of
Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker and O’Quinn, First Na-
tional Bank Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

[23]

The cAlumni M U agazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

Frep Davis is president of the firm of Davis, Childs
and Company, Inc., “The Insurance People,” 209 Ninth
Street, Lynchburg, Virginia. He was married June 23 of
last year and is building a home. Is thoroughly convinced
that Virginia is the finest state there is and Lynchburg
one of the best cities in which a man can live.

WarrEN Brown is president of the Hippodrome Mo-
tor Company, 1212 Broad Street, Nashville, ‘Tennessee.

1915

WILLIAM HaAINEs Smits lives in Ardmore, Okla-
homa.

kK. L. Suirk is practicing law at 33 North Duke
Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Has a son who will soon
be old enough to attend Washington and Lee.

Rosert P. Apams is practicing law in Trenton, Ten-
nessee. His firm is Taylor, Adams & Freeman.

J. R. (Cocn1) NEAt is vice-president of the Second
National Bank, Houston, Texas. He gets back to Lexing-
ton frequently.

Dr. RicHarp FowLkEs is practicing medicine in Rich-
mond, Virginia, with offices in the Professional Building.

1916

Davin A. FALk is manager of O. Falk’s Department
Store, Tampa, Florida.

Lyncu CuHrRIstiIAN is with the Imperial Coal Sales
Company, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Hunter SHUMATE is a member of the law firm of
Shumate and Shumate (Hunter M., 1916, and Thomas
D., LL.B. 1930), Irvine, Kentucky. He has two daugh-
ters 18 and 17, the elder in Randolph-Macon Woman's
College. He served as circuit judge but is now practicing
law again.

Grorck D. SHore is practicing law in Sumter, South
Carolina.

SELDEN McNEER is a member of the law firm of
Campbell & McNeer, First National Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia.

1917

C. R. SrriB_inG is superintendent of the Missouri
Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri. Says he has been
so busy trying to send some decent boys to Washington

and Lee this year that he has not had time to write to the
‘‘rough-necks” of 1917. He is married and has an eleven-
year-old boy and a six-year-old daughter.

Ropert H. GARDNER is manager of pipe sales for the
A. M. Byers Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

V. Cavin WELLS is practicing law in Jackson, Mis-
sissipp!. He has a son thirteen who is planning to enter
Washington and Lee in four years.

E. P. Barrow is practicing law in Lawrenceville, Vir-
ginia. He is president of the Randolph-Macon Alumni
Association this year.

Rospert B. McDouc te is practicing law in Parkers-
burg, West Virginia.

Mitton Rocers is with the American Water Com-
pany, 50 Broad Street, New York.

1918

Joun McCuorp is a member of the firm of Calfee &
Fogg, 308 Euclid Avenue Building, Cleveland, Ohio. Was
back for Finals.

Ep CAMPBELL is a member of the law firm of Doug-
las, O’Bear, Morgan and Campbell, Southern Building,
Washington, D. C.

Jim Izarp is engaged in the general insurance business
in Roanoke, Virginia. His offices are in the Colonial Na-
tional Bank Building.

1919

Howarp P. Arnst, 1425 Yeon Building, Portland,
Oregon.

ReEip Wuire, JR., is practicing medicine in Lexington,
and lives in the beautiful old home of his father and
grandfather. He is married and has two children, a boy
and a girl.

LEONARD T. Brown is living at 700 West Jackson
Avenue, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

1920

Ernest N. Townes is practicing law in Petersburg,
Virginia. In 1923 he married Charlotte H. Tomlin and
they live at 1658 Brandon Avenue, Petersburg, Virginia.

Hope Stark is practicing law at Lawrenceville, Geor-
gia. He was appointed solicitor of the City Court of
Gwinnett County last year. He has two sons, eight and
three years old.

[24]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

SHIRLEY J. Rospins lives at Rosalind Gardens Apart-
ment, Dobbs Ferry, New York.

W. E. Jounston is in the sugar business in New
York. He lives at 219 Engle Street, Tenafly, New Jersey.

Rosert WILLIAM Lowe is in the coal business at
Springfield, Illinois. He recently bought an old farm house
in a small town nearby and finds renovating it an absorb-
ing task.

R. L. Litk is general superintendent of the Demon-
stration Gold Mines, Ltd., at Bagio, Philippine Islands.

Lewis DuNLApP is sales manager for the Veneer De-
partment of the Pulaski Veneer Company, Pulaski, Vir-
ginia. He did a good job as class agent for the class of
1922 for three years.

MAUvRICE PEIKIN is president of the Peikin Galleries,
Inc., art galleries in the Ritz-Carlton Hotel and Hotel
Traymore Block, Atlantic City. Also he is president of
the R. W. Johnston & Company, Inc., Jewelers, in the
Waldorf Astoria.

Joun W. CHILp is located in the heart of the Poca-
hontas Coal Fields. Is actively interested in Kiwanis ac-
tivities and when his letter was written

C. D. McCase is with the Golden Pe- a ‘

‘ ; ti 7 gee vs last May he was starting to drive to the
troleum Company, Morris Building, Abi- A SuZaAf : : SM Oe
ae dee aaa SSseayl Kiwanis International Convention in San

> » a a i (t, ~ SS i i “4 .
, IBZ AG S> wse- '—s-* Francisco.
Orr Macruper lives at 161° West soe e PE ieee
- » cs > > > y SS re) a2 =a “2 - :
seventy-Highth Street, New York, N. Y. a ED, yee ee 1924

Jimmy Marsua tt lives at 1800 South
Road, Baltimore, Maryland.

Harry L,. Moore is head of the De-
partment of Poultry Husbandry, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Va.

1921

CHARLES Gorvon Moss has completed
his sixth year of teaching history in Mary
Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia. ‘The name
of the college was recently changed from State ‘Teachers
College. There is a Charles Gordon, Jr., who will be ready
for Washington and Lee in 1955.

T. X. Parsons is a member of the law firm of Sho-
walter, Parsons, Kuyk and Staples, with offices in the
Colonial National Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

RANK M. PoLtock is with the Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia, branch of Fire Companies Adjustment Bureau, Inc.

Lewis S. Muscrove is with the United States Guar-
antee Company, 90 John Street, New York. His home ad-
dress is 110-21 Seventy-third Road, Forest Hills, Long
Island, and he would be glad to see any old Washington
and I,ee men who drop in to see him and his family,

1922
W. E. NEBLE?‘? is practicing law in Lunenburg, Va.

W. J. L. Parron was made assistant cashier of The
National City Bank of New York in January, 1937. His
home is in Forest Hills, Long Island.

    
  

BAyNARD L,. MALONE, JR., opened a
law office of his own in August, 1937, in
the Equitable Building, St. Petersburg,
Florida.

Ty
eal!

27s

e" JAmEs V. LoGaN, Jr., is a member of
the English Department of the Ohio State
University, Columbus, Ohio.

i)

|

Jack ‘THoMAs is pastor of the Grace
Covenant Presbyterian Church, Rich-
mond, Virginia. He was elected a member of the Univer-
sity Board of Trustees at the last commencement meeting.

J. HARMAN BryANn is secretary and treasurer of the
Staunton Department Store, Staunton, Virginia.

GEORGE S. SprAGINS, after graduation, returned to his
home in Hope, Arkansas, and three years later went to
California. He has been with the Bank of America N. 'T.
5. A. since that time, and at present is assistant cashier
of the Santa Paula Branch. He married a Los Angeles
girl and they have a girl nine and boy fifteen months old.

1925

WALTER PurNey lives near Farmville, Virginia. Was
in Louisville for the last Derby and saw his class agent.

Marvin Hummer is in the Coal-Fuel-Oil-Hardware-
Paint business in Washington, D. C. His firm is W. F.
Hummer & Son, 802 B Street, N. E.

C. W. Rex is secretary-treasurer of Rex-MecGill In-
vestment Company, Inc., 128 North Orange Street, Or-

[25]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

lando, Florida. He is also interested in citrus growing, in
which he has heavy investments.

Harotp St. JoHN is doing business under the firm
name of H. W. St. John and Company, Freight Brokers
and Forwarding Agents, Custom House Brokers, 18 Pearl
Street, New York.

Linpsay R. Henry was married November 5, 1925,
to Gertrude Elizabeth Blakeman of ‘Toronto, Canada.
They have two sons, Thomas Edward Henry, born April,
1927, and Patrick Henry, born August 8, 1929. In Jan-
uary, 1928, he was appointed assistant United States at-
torney for the East District of New York, which is com-
prised of three of the New York City Burough and Nas-
sau and Suffolk Counties. In April, 1931, he became chief
assistant United States attorney for the same district. On
January, 1931, he resigned and was appointed assistant
district attorney of Suffolk County, New York, and on
January 1, 1936, was appointed chief assistant district
attorney of Suffolk County, which position he now holds.

JouNn Cooper Morrison is a member of the law firm
of Brown, Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Bank
Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

Leo S. Howarp practiced law in East Radford, Vir-
ginia, until 1937, at which time, due to the death of his
father and brother, he returned to Floyd, Virginia, and
took up their practice. He was married in 1928.

1926

Ratpu I. DavEs is manager of the State Theatre, Lex-
ington, Virginia. He has a daughter who entered high
school this fall and a son, two years younger.

W. E. (Tx) Titson, in addition to coaching football
at Washington and Lee, operates a camp for small boys
six miles out of Lexington, owns and operates a farm.
The Tilsons have two children, a boy and a girl.

1927

Jor LANIER lives at West Point, Georgia. Is building
a new home there.

GrorcE Burks was in Lexington for Alumni Day and
the 1938 Finals, accompanied by his wife. His address is
2005 Woodford Place, Louisville, Kentucky. He married
Dorothy Wallace Hereford last November.

1928

Wa. C. NorMAN is in the lumber and paper division
of the Crosset Lumber Company, as secretary to the gen-

eral manager, Crosset, Arkansas. He has a son nearly four
years old.

Witiiam J. Luria, care of Luria Brothers & Com-
pany, Inc., Lincoln-Liberty Building, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. He wrote that he was to be married in June.

R. W. (Buck) Jorpan, Jr., is title officer for the
Lawyers’ Title Insurance Corporation of Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He has seven assistant title officers under him. He
is married and has a little daughter who was three years
old in November.

1929

J. M. SHAcKELForD lives at 70 South Street, Somer-
ville, New Jersey. He is working with the Johns-Man-
ville Corporation, Manville, New Jersey.

P. D. Carver lives at 1361 Broadview Avenue, High-
land Park, Illinois. Says his family life centers around a
two-year-old son “who is really a rascal, with enough fight
in him to at least make the Washington and Lee boxing
team, class of 1947.”

MaAssILLon HeEusER is a member of the law firm of
Morison, Morison and Heuser, Bristol, Virginia. He mar-
ried Myrl Dubur of New Orleans and they have a small
daughter.

1930

LeonarD Davis was married April 30. He is a mem-
ber of the law firm of White, Gay and Davis, Citizens
Bank Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

KENNETH KEI is district manager of the Springfield,
Illinois, branch of the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany. He is still a bachelor.

R. T. Doucu iE, JR., is in charge of the new office of
the Department of Agriculture in Memphis, Tennessee.
The office supervises and inspects the sampling and grad-
ing of cottonseed throughout the states of the Mississippi
Valley. In other words, is setting up a standard on cotton-
seed sampling and grading. Dick’s position is with the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics and he has been given
the title of “Cottonseed Technologist’”—said title being
the only one of the kind at present. He was married
April 2 in Chicago, to Esther Jones. They are living in
Memphis and their address is 2155 Poplar Avenue, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

Britt ‘ToMLINSON is engaged in the manufacture of
furniture, being associated with the well known Tomlin-
son Company of High Point, North Carolina.

[26]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

GrorcE F. ASHwor'H is connected with the National
Archives in Washington, D, C..

DavE Morevon is living in Quentin, Mississippi.

HERBERT JAHNCKE is employed by Jahncke Service, a
large dredging and building concern in New Orleans.

1931

JoHN CHARLES SMITH is assistant secretary of ‘The
Northern Trust Company. He says: “I have a beauitful
desk sitting on a thick carpet—a nice name plate and prac-
tically no salary, but in these days money 2
isn’t everything—just most things.’’ His
address is care of The Northern Trust
Company, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chi-
cago, Illinois.

AL PEEry is practicing law in ‘Taze-
well, Virginia.

RicHArD B. Foster is the proprietor
of The Billboard Barn, Antiques and
Gifts, Southampton, Long Island, and
Palm Beach, Florida.

GILMORE NUNN is with WLAP, “The
Voice of the Blue Grass,’ Lexington,
Kentucky. Reports the birth of a second daughter, Peggy
Morrow Nunn, born January 2, 1938.

Day Svu6c is practicing law in Fayetteville, ‘Tennessee.
He is still a bachelor, and says the chances are good of his
continuing in that state.

ALBERT CONNOR (RED) JONEs, JR., lives at Batesburg,
South Carolina.

1932

Joun Hitt Morcan is an honorary alumnus of the
class of 1932 law, having received the honorary degree of
LL.D. at commencement of that year. He retired from
his law practice in New York and now lives at Mill
Streams, Farmington, Connecticut.

FRANCIS FULLER is practicing law in the ‘Trust Com-
pany of Georgia Building, Atlanta, Georgia. Says he
would be glad to write a newsy letter except that his sec-
retary objects to everything he has to say.

Cotas Harris is director of ‘The National Archives
in Washington. He lives at 2755 Macomb Street, N. W.,
but spends some week-ends at his farm in Fairfax Coun-
ty, Virginia.

 

Woopson GiLLocKk is chemist for the Dupont Com-
pany at Waynesboro, Vitginia. He is quite interested in‘
Waynesboro’s new recreation hall, of which he is one of
the directors. His address is 368 Maple Avenue.

CHARLES LONG is a rising attorney of Dallas, Texas.
He also reports on Ed Nesbitt and Collett Munger.
Charlie had a long talk with Dr. Tucker when the dean
was in ‘Texas last spring.

Dr. R. T. Suretps, JR., completed a two-year rotating
internship at the Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia,
last summer, and is now completing six months as
Surgical Resident, on the Private Ser-
vice, at the Lenox Hill Hospital, New
York, and will be at the City Hospital,
Welfare Island, New York, as Assistant

Surgical Resident, from January 1 to July
1, 1939.

SHERWOOD WIsE is with Wells, Wells
and Lipscomb, Attorneys, in the Lamar
Life Building in Jackson, Mississippi.
Shaky married Elizabeth Powell of Can-
ton, Mississippi, last July.

KEMPER JENNINGS is still in “the
* - school game” in Daytona Beach. He says:
“If any of you are interested, let me testify that I know of
nothing more enjoyable and less remunerative than being
a school teacher.”

1933

CHARLIE KAUFMAN classifies himself as “a sort of
trouble shooting chemical engineer for the Western Di-
vision of the National Canners’ Association,” working out
of their research laboratories in San Francisco. Their di-
vision covers the entire West from Denver on.

M. Hock Cricuron is with the Fidelity and Deposit
Company of Maryland and travels, and travels, and trav-
els. Has lost his boyish enthusiam for the life of a travel-
ing salesman. His home office is in the Whitney Building,
New Orleans.

Henry Foore, Jr., is with the H. D. Foote Lumber
Company of Alexandria, Louisiana. He says: “In short—
as the lumber business goes—so goes Henry ; and right at
this time lumber and Henry are both in a bad way.” Has a
kid brother at Washington and Lee.

Ep Cuirrum is principal of the Middlebrook High
School, Middlebrook, Virginia, which has a combined en-

[27]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

rollment of about four hundred. He married Sue Ken-
nedy of Staunton on November 7, 1935.

KBEN JACKSON lives at 20 Poplar Street, Danvers,
Massachusetts.

Joun A. WoMELporE is minister of the Presbyterian
Church, Appalachia, Virginia.

Cart B. VICKERs is prosecuting attorney of Fayette
County, Fayetteville, West Virginia. He married a girl
from his home town and they have a daughter, Vicki Lee,
fifteen months old.

1934

I‘ARRAR NEWBERRY, JR., is special agent for the Na-
tional Security Fire Insurance Company, Omaha, Ne-
braska. His offices are at 1910 Harney Street.

PHIL SERAPHINE, JR., is with the Baltimore Sun, Bal-
timore, Maryland.

Dixon Martin Kirk LANb is representing the Group
Department of the Provident Life and Accident Insur-
ance Company, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

THomas W. GRAVEs is engaged in the feed business
in Lynchburg, Virginia. He has been doing some flying,
‘just for fun”; his solo hours now total about four.

1935

Joun Sponr is employed as a salesman for The Texas
Company in Syracuse, New York. He moved into an
apartment in Syracuse last April and found that Ed Boze,
1936, had moved out of the identical apartment the day
before.

308 MILLER is in Detroit, working for the United
States Rubber Company.

Bit. FowLkEs is practicing law in San Antonio,
‘Texas.

1936

At Duran’ is working on the picture end of The
News, New York’s picture newspaper. His address is 333
East Forty-third Street, New York City.

Joun GRAHAM SALE, JR., is studying law at the Uni-
versity of West Virginia, Morgantown, West Virginia.

Harry BowMAN has changed his address to 638 Fair
Oaks Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois.

1937

JamEs R. Rurs is an insurance salesman with the
Kmployers’ Casualty Company, 904 Sterling Building,
Houston, Texas. Thinks Houston is the place for oppor-
tunities. His residence address is 1129 Weaver Street.

Artuur P. G. McGinnis, Jr., transferred from
Washington and Lee to Lehigh University in order to
take up industrial engineering. He graduated from there
in June, 1937. He is with the American Bronze Corpora-
tion, Wayne, Pennsylvania.

STANLEY HIGGINS is with Mahan, Bacon and White
in Fayetteville, West Virginia.

S. Titrorp PAYNE, JR., is in Louisville, Kentucky.
His address is 2315 Cherokee Parkway.

WALLY BERNARD is sales manager for the Hudson
Dyestuffs Corporation, 296 Broadway, New York. He
took the New York Bar examination last October and
passed it successfully.

JAMES PELHAM (Doc) BAKER is Field Secretary for
the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity for the South.

 

 

 

McCRUMS
y
Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY
In Lexington and Vicinity

y
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
a
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
vy
Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

[28]

 

 

 

 

The Generals’
Football Schedule for 1989

GS

Sept. 30-——Sewatteemeee. . . Lexington, Va.
Oct. 7—Richmond University . Lexington, Va.
Oct. 14—Southwestern University. Memphis, Tenn.
Oct. 21—West Virginia . Charleston, West Va.
Oct. 28—V. P. 1.) eee «Blacksburg, Va;
Nov. 4—Washington University . St. Louis, Mo.

Nov. 10—University of Virginia . Lexington, Va.
(Homecoming Day)

Nov. 18—William and Mary . Williamsburg, Va.

Thanksgiving Day—Maryland . Baltimore, Md.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cheustinids give me
more pleasure than any
cigarette | ever smoked

 
 

A HAPPY COMBINATION OF THE WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS

Copyright 1939, LiGceTt & Myers TOBACCO Co..,

