WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSI
LEXINGTON, VA.

umni Magazine

mee and fee Universit

A ~
a

|
d

The 185th Session of Washington and Lee

Vol. X—No. | October, 1934 $2.50 a year

 

 

 

 

 

HOMECOMING

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27TH

VIRGINIA IECH

VS

W ASHINGTON and LEE

NOTE: Time 11 a. m.

YW ARE planning the biggest and best
Homecoming in our history. At 11
a. m. the Generals will meet the Gobblers of
Virginia Tech.

At 2:30 p. m., V. M. I. plays Virginia—

a chance to see Virginia’s Big Four in action
on one day. You can’t afford to miss it.

Your friends will be here! Will you?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Hagan Minnick, 318 Park Street, Bristol,
Te1.n.-Va.

Atlanta, Georgia A
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Building.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank Building.

Charleston, West Virginia
Cc. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chicago
Ruben A. Lewis, Jr., Continental Illinois
National Bank.

Cincinnati
Rojer J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami,
Florida.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkperciek, Peoples Bank Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
Arthur Tabb, 2411 Randall Avenue.

Memphis, Tennessee
Maynard W. Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank
Building.

Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life Building.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, U. C. L. A., Los Angeles,
California.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.

Tri-State Association
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia.

Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Building.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Vol. X OCTOBER, 1934 No. 1

 

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Présuagnt i:.:6. gonna Dr. J. W. CLraupy, 1909
Vice-President.....:......... HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930
Secretary .......... Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Treasurer........... ete M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powkti, 1929
Epwarp W. L&E, 1913
H. St.G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
et A. MacDona.p, 1910

 

Contents for October 1934

PAGE
RR RS ee ea Be ee 3
What’ tie Aitominit Coste D0). cio fool... ccccbivecsesebeven cctecbesedare +
Alumni in the Service OF Virginia....i.0....0....ccccsccdevesscceesbeceeees: 5
PORCIRE’ DOMME SMOMER MIMI. «550s hac Mid ais capi sscersececteetthncvsde cesses. 6
Matthew irae AmGrews, TIO). .iccci Mat sekacyscheeescdtles esds.....00: 7
Generals on the Warpath Agaim......0..4.2.08........cccccccccsseeeeseees: 8
Faculty Changes, 1934............. Fa oP Nas iG eM tia 0c 10
Local Alumni: Association Notes ..:.5.....5..50....scececsodescoccsateeeoeee. 13
Class Notes.......... tect cae eaderaecc ani oeacnstonaie ible ables e ee woken. 16
TOS PIMEI si ee cReaH cas, «5250. Coes dake coe 9S spo Rn ce OMT 23
Bek: DURRNIUDNE: on. 2542. 55505: s oMhars coven eregeae) i oly svoaces etnias aa a 24

[1]

A e

“Dd. ¢a
ny

.

Ne
al rs >

Ks

.
‘
“
:
.

fad

m

 

E a: i ee

I

N

I

a ee ee: SS

The President’s Page

oe. PRESENT FALL, the 185th since Robert Alex-

BOF aie: opened what a historian terms “the local
log college” and the fifth of what another calls ‘‘the
epoch of national gloom,” reveals heartening and
strengthening factors in the life of Washington and

Lee.

K K K

Most conspicuous of these elements is the increase
in enrollment. The new directory, just issued by the
indefatigable efforts of the registrar’s office, indicates
an increase of thirty-eight students over the same date
last year, approximately five per cent. The largest gains
are from Kentucky, Texas, and Maryland. The cities
of Louisville and St. Louis are particularly well rep-
resented in the freshman class.

* *«* *

The offices of administration received a “flash”
from the press asking for some explanation of this
increase, and the answer was not easily formulated.
There has been encouragement, of course, in the stu-
dent aid furnished by FERA, though the amount of
assistance is not great. There has been a stimulating
increase from the lower South, the agricultural South,
as if the AAA had lent encouragement to the A.B.
Certainly account must be taken of the resolution of
individuals; many alumni gave generous thought and
time to presenting the University to the minds of
worthy boys; one member of the student body inter-
ested five new men, another stirred up enthusiasm in
the hearts of four boys.

* * *

New processes of adjustments have been set up in
behalf of the entering class. For one thing, the fresh-
men, with few exceptions, room in the University dor-
mitories, under the guidance of twelve upper-classmen,
carefully chosen as “counselors.” The entering class is
divided into small groups and each individual is as-
signed to a faculty adviser; seventeen teachers grac-
iously accept this extra burden of duty. They have
studied their freshman’s papers before he reaches the
campus; they work out his class program with him,
and help him define or achieve immediate and remote
ambitions, and give him fatherly advice upon numerous
subjects. The recently established office of the Dean
of Students takes a general oversight of the larger con-

ditions and stands ready to help on all personal prob-
lems

[3]

It is one of the critical periods of
life, this moment of transition from
the home environment or the closely
regulated “‘prep’’ school regime to
the freedom of the University cam-
pus. Some robust individualists feel
that the machinery of orientation is
over-done, just as some men believe
that the way to teach a boy to swim
is to fling him into a mill-pond and
tell him to come out the best he can.
It is our desire, however, to neglect
no medium of assistance. Besides the individual contacts
suggested above, the freshman here is brought under
many influences of help. A third of the new boys—
the limitation resulting from conditions of space—have
a few days at the Freshman Camp, an acquaintance ex-
perience, where they meet each other, members of the
faculty, and a picked group of older boys. All of the
freshmen are run through a series of meetings in Lee
Chapel where every pertinent phase of University life
is interpreted by faculty members, by students, or by
such guests as the ministers of the town. A reception at
the president’s home symbolizes, it is hoped, the larger
welcome.

 

* *« *

The ideal order of student life, toward which we
work, is a minimum of regulation with a maximum of
effective counsel and inspiration.

x *« x

One of the notable features of the present session
is the healthiness of the various student activities. Head-
lines are being usurped now by the football squad
which has given a fine account of itself since Coaches
Tilson and Young gathered the group for ten days of
friendly striving in the lovely camp upon the waters
of the Cowpasture River. But it must not be forgotten
that there are about a dozen other forms of sport pro-
posed for student benefit and enjoyment, enough for
every boy to find his interest. Last season's record of
a state championship in football, and conference cham-
pionships in basketball, wrestling, and golf—not to
mention such individual performances as were made
in swimming—indicate that the more expert boys acquit
themselves well in contests. Educationally, however, it
is most important to remember the intra-mural pro-
gram, through which the vast majority of students
find expression and development in a physical form.

oi. eS She Mews

I

“hh. me. eh. Ss ee

 

Other phases of the student life show encouraging
vigor. The literary societies, which if not dead were
sleeping, have waked up under the direct supervision
of the English department. The Glee Club under Pro-
fessor Graham's fine direction is unusually large and
probably full of artistic ambition. Dr. Leon Smith
guides the band with its impressive blue blazers. The
Troubadours under Professor Watkin are already re-
hearsing. All student publications have been stabilized
by the “campus tax.” Debating, which had a success-
ful season last year under Professor Flournoy, enlists
the abilities of many boys. Almost every department
has some club of its professional culture and all of
them command support.

*

* *

The curriculum, let us hasten to add, the central
purpose of the whole University, has been fortified.
Various changes through the years have made the pro-
gram of studies more compact, more unified, more con-
sistent with the resource available. It is probably the
most satisfactory schedule for mental explorations that
we could offer ; and it is intrusted to a group of devoted
teachers.

Nothing in the whole range of University affairs
has sent stronger currents of hope through the very
fibres of its life than the increasing alumni interest and

support.

* * *

Many emotional thrills have swept the hearts that
love this institution since Robert Alexander made his
modest venture with the “local log college.” Alarms
from war-drums have agitated these hearts, economic
bitterness has depressed them, the passing of leaders
saddened them. They have leaped at the news of a
large donation from Washington or some other bene-
factor; they have exulted at the quiet word that spread
through a melancholy autumn to the effect that none
other than the great Lee would give himself to their
institution. Today there are conflicting emotions in these
hearts that love Washington and Lee; but the greatest
of them all is a thrill of faith, of justifiable faith.

fore pet ewan

 

What the Alumni Ought to Do

w last year’s volume of the Alumni Magazine
there appeared on the President’s Page—‘‘What
Can the Alumnus Do?”

This has borne fruit in the minds of a number of
men who have contributed their ideas in a variety of
forms.

For example: Ki Williams of Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, says that what he would like to do if he were
able would be the restoration of Liberty Hall. Since
he alone, and probably very few alumni by their own
individual gifts, could make so impressive a restora-
tion as this job, he sends the suggestion to see who
else is interested, who would join him in arousing a
sentiment that with the years might crystalize into
definite plans and funds for the complete restoration
of Liberty Hall. Ki Williams knowning, as we all do,
what can be done by scientific and accurate architec-
tural restoration of the sort practiced in Williamsburg,
and knowing also that there are in existence sufficient
data for the accurate restoration of Liberty Hall, feels
and hopes that the time will come when a group of
alumni will be so interested in this one project alone
that it will begin to move of itself and take form and
shape, so that eventually there will be a complete res-
toration on the hill behind the campus in place of the
picturesque, but sad, ruin that is there now.

Another alumnus, asking to remain anonymous,
covets for the University more than any other one
thing, a record by ornamental tablets on the walls of
the collonade of those great men and those events that
these collonades have witnessed throughout the gen-

_erations. The walls of the collonade could be filled

ies

with large and small decorative tablets that would be
pictorial lessons in history and in tradition to those
hundreds of students who walk this collonade daily
who could be individually instructed in even the es-
sentials of our significant history of men and events.

Another correspondent wishes more than anything
else to see an addition made to the east end of the
gymnasium that will be devoted exclusively to formal
social occasions that take place in the gymnasium for
lack of any other auditorium. His plan includes an ap-
proach and a driveway with collonades added to the
east end as a large foyer and dressing rooms, a smok-
ing room, a lounge and refreshment room. This plan
has in mind not alone the regular periodic dances that
are held by the students in the gymnasium which repre-
sent the University in its most important social aspect to
the students and to outsiders, but also those occasions
when the University is host to alumni on Homecoming
Days and on Alumni Day at Finals, and for those

(Continued on page five)

E - 2 2 cee aN

I

RE. Se OE ey ee Se

Alumni in the Service of Virginia

savin the kindness of the State Tax Commis-
ay sioner, C. II. Morrissett, ’14, there is published
below a partial list of Washington and Lee alumni in the
service of the State of Virginia. This alphabetical list
follows the fragmentary publication in last year’s vol-
ume of a few names of alumni prominent in the ser-
vice of the State. This list is not complete and any ad-
ditions that can be made to it will be appreciated and
should be addressed to the Alumni Secretary.

Partial List of Washington and Lee Alumni in Service
of the State of Virginia

Apperson, Harvey Black, State Senator.

Arnold, Robert Watson, Examiner of Records.

Bandy, Henry Matthew, Member, House of Delegates.

Barrow, Emory Powell, Member, House of Delegates.

Beale, Ernest Linwood, Examiner of Records.

Buchanan, Archibald Chapman, Circuit Judge.

Burks, Charles Edward, State Senator.

Cather, Thomas Russell, State Senator.

Connor, Cecil, State Senator.

Conrad, Bryan, with Commission on Conservation and
Development.

Dickinson, Burt L., State Senator.

Kggleston, John William, State Senator.

Epes, Louis Spencer, Judge, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals.

Glasgow, Joseph Anderson, Circuit Judge.

Gregory, Herbert B., Judge, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals.

Haden, Benjamin, Jr., Circuit Judge.

Hall, Wilbur Curtis, Member, House of Delegates, and
Chairman, Finance Committee.

Halsey, Don Peters, Circuit Judge.

Handley, Charles Overton, with Department of Game
and Inland Fisheries.

Hodges, LeRoy, Member, Prison Board.

Holt, Henry Winston, Judge, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals.

Hooker, Henry Lester, Member, State Corporation
Commission.

Hopkins, Abram Hancock, Circuit Judge.

Hutcheson, Robert Francis, Circuit Judge.

Keister, Thurston Lantz, Circuit Judge.

Lively, Alonzo G., Circuit Judge.

Moore, Frank, Member, House of Delegates.

Moore, Stuart, Examiner of Records.

Morrissett, Carlisle Havelock, State Tax Commis-
sioner,

[5]

Moss, Charles Wesley, Member, House of Delegates.

Oast, Edward Linscott, Member, House of Delegates
and Examiner of Records.

Oliver, John B., Member, House of Delegates.

Page, Vivian Llewellyn, Member, House of Delegates
and Chairman Committee for Courts of Justice.

Peery, George Campbell, Governor of Virginia.

Price, James Hubert, Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia.

Rhodes, John Quincy, Jr., Director, Division of Mo-
tor Vehicles.

Saunders, Peter, Secretary to the Commonwealth and
Secretary to Governor.

Scott, Walter H., Member, House of Delegates.

Staples, Abram Penn, Attorney General of Virginia.

Steele, Robert Edward, Assistant Assessor, State Cor-
poration Commission.

Sutherland, Horace, Circuit Judge.

Tuck, William Munford, State Senator.

Tyler, Stockton Heth, Chairman, Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board.

Walter, Jefferson Francis, State Senator.

White, Benjamin Dey, Circuit Judge.

Wickham, Henry T., State Senator.

Williams, Philip, Circuit Judge.

Wright, William Alfred, State Senator.

Wyant, Herbert Wilson, Examiner of Records.

 

What the Alumni Ought to Do

(Continued from page four)

special occasions when the whole burden of hospitality
is thrown upon the President and his wife, and could
be assumed by the University if there were a proper
and adequate building for such parties.

There is periodic correspondence always from the
alumni, or it crops up often in conversation, whenever
anybody thinks of the lack of an auditorium here and
the lack of a chapel that can comfortably seat the pres-
ent student body.

This little article in the Alumni Magazine is merely
an introduction to the question of what the alumni
want to do for the University and what they would do
if they could. It is published to provoke thought and
plans in the hope that what one person may have in
his mind and in his heart might be accomplished by
someone else who hasn’t thought of that but would
readily agree to it or would form a group for the ac-
complishment of these and various and sundry things.

E ek ae). Moa

I

A. Gee ae 2 a

More Family Relationships

ee the publication last year of Washing-

a ton and Lee family relations in the student body,
Billy Cox, class-agent for °17, sent his personal genea-
logical record and since then others have been received.

* * *

Joun ALEXANDER GRAHAM, Professor in the Mod-
ern Language Department at Washington and Lee has
a unique record of lineage in the male line straight back
through the Grahams to Edward Graham, one of the
founders of the College. The five generations are as
follows:

Edward Graham, father of Archibald Graham,
father of Edward L. Graham, father of Edward L.
Graham, father of Edward L. Graham, John A. Gra-
ham and S. Mercer Graham.

John Graham and his brothers are the fifth gener-
ation of the Grahams in direct descent and “Ned” Gra-
ham is the fifth generation of Edward Grahams (through
No. 816, brother of Archibald Graham) and is the third
Edward Lacy Graham in direct line.

* *«* *

Cuartes S. McNutty, Jr., Freshman, 1933-34.
Father: Charles S. McNulty, 1902, (5182), B.A,,
LL.B., Lawyer, Roanoke, Va. Grandfather: William
A. Anderson, 1859-61, LL.D., (1755), Lawyer, At-
torney General of Virginia, Trustee of University
1887-1930, Rector of the University, 1915-1924, Lex-
ington, Va., 1842-1930. Great-grandfather: Francis T.
Anderson, (811), Lawyer and iron manufacturer ; Jus-
tice of Virginia Supreme Court, 1870-1882, Board of
Trustees, 1853-1887, Rector of the University, 1879-
1887, Lexington, Va. Great-great-grandfather : Andrew
Alexander, (54), Farmer and contractor; lived where
University president now lives; traded site of present
campus and main building to Washington College for
Liberty Hall site, one mile west; Trustee, 1796-1844,
and Secretary of Liberty Hall Academy and Wash-
ington College, Lexington, Va., 1768-1844. Great-
great-great-grandfather : William Alexander, Treasurer
and one of the original Trustees of Liberty Hall Acad-
emy, Lexington, Va., 1738-1796. Great-great-great-
great-grandfather: Captain Archibald Alexander, a
noted pioneer settler of New Providence and Timber
Ridge, a leader in the movement that led to the found-
ing of Augusta Academy, the prototype of Washing-
ton and Lee, Timber Ridge, Va., 1708-?. Great-great
great-great-great-nephew of Robert Alexander, first

[ 6 ]

principal of Augusta Academy, 1749-1753, and younger
brother of Captain Archibald Alexander.

‘The various descendants and relatives of the above
occupy a considerable portion of the Alumni Register
and bear names: Alexander, Anderson, Aylett, Bruce,
Campbell, Carruthers, Carter, Dandridge, Glasgow,
Graham, Junkin, Lapsley, Lee, Lyle, McClung, Mc-
Nutt, Mitchell, Moore, Paxton, Poindexter, Reid,
West, etc.

The ties of blood have brought back many a boy
to Washington and Lee and should bring back still
more to absorb the training and the spirit of Wash-
ington and Lee, that have made her alumni outstanding.

* * *

Dr. Emmerr W. McCork es sends his list of Mc-
Corkles that have attended Washington and Lee. “You
asked for names of families. I am sending these as far
back as I can go.”

James McCorkle, Trustee Washington College,
1782-1784; Alexander B. McCorkle; Alexander G.
McCorkle; William Parsons McCorkle; Alexander C.
McCorkie; William Douglass McCorkle; William Alex-
ander McCorkle; Alfred Leyburn McCorkle; Samuel
W. McCorkle; ‘Thomas E. McCorkle; William Phil-
ander McCorkle; Thomas Alexander McCorkle; Wil-
liam Alexander McCorkle; Alvan Dade McCorkle;
William Goshorn McCorkle; Charles Edward Mc-
Corkle; Walter Lee McCorkle; Emmett Wallace Mc-
Corkle; R. Howard McCorkle; Henry Hale McCorkle;
Emmett Wallace McCorkle, Jr.; Stuart Alexander Mc-
Corkle; Daniel Swink McCorkle.

* «*« *

It should be remembered that three members of the
Board of Trustees, Messrs. Waddell, Caskie, and Mc-
Cormick, are descendants of former trustees; and a
fourth member of the Board, Dr. Bolling Lee, is a
grandson of a former President, General Lee.

 

The Collection of Anecdotes

THe editor is collecting in the Alumni Office, from
time to time and from whatever source they can be
gotten, anecdotes of the old days at Washington and
l.ee that go back as far as the memory of the oldest
living alumni. This collection grows from time to time,
and this note is a reminder to any of our readers who
can supply anecdotal material for editing and publi-
cation later.

E i. ee eee

I

a faa GA oe SS Oe

Matthew Page Andrews, 190!

A Biographical Sketch by the Editor

LREADY well known an author of historical
papers, including his “A Brief History of the

United States,’ Matthew Page Andrews has con-

as

tributed another brilliant piece of work to the archives
of Marvland, his native state. He has written “The Soul
of Maryland,” pageant of the founding of that state,
which was at the
aItimore Stadium, October
8 and Y.

Mr. Andrews was grad-
uated from Washington and
Lee, taking his A.B. in 1901
and his M.A. in 1902, and
since then has devoted most
time to historical
work. He is the author of
“The Heritage of Freedom,”
“History of Maryland, Pro-
vince and State,’ and more
recently “The Founding of
Maryland,” a volume of orig-
inal material which treats of
the origin of the province
and the first sixty years of

enacted

of his

its development.

“The Soul of Maryland”
has been aptly described as
an “enthralling historical
spectacle.” It was enacted by
3,000 Marylanders and was
given under the auspices of
the Maryland ‘Tercentenary
Commission of Baltimore.

Mr. Andrews has receiv-
ed wide acclaim for this, his
newest work, which is pub-
lished in attractive book form. The book itself con-
tains 114 pages, being a complete outline of all that
took place along with the presentation of the pageant.

“The Soul of Maryland” was the high spot of Mary-
land’s tercentenary celebration. ‘The pageant is de-
scribed as the first one done on “metropolitan” lines,
at least the first of that type held in Baltimore. It was
directed by Percy Jewett Burrell, and staged, accord-
ing to all reports, with tremendous success.

The pageant with
various musical selections, climaxed by the “Dance

opens a prologue including

 

Writes “The Soul of Maryland”

brate the 200th
timore Town,”

[7]

of the Muses,” excerpts from the opera “Orpheus.”

The first episode treats of the Yaocomico Indians,
the time being autumn of 1633; the second episode
deals with the charter of Maryland, the place, London,
the time, 1632. In this episode the preparation of the
charter was delineated and royal court scenes portrayed.

The third episode deals
with Cecil Calvert and his
part in the early inception of
Maryland.

The pageant from that
through the tenth
and final one portrayed var-
ious stages in the develop-
ment of Maryland and cul-
minated with an episode en-

episode

titled ‘“‘Freedom of Con-
science.”
Back in 1920 when the

Harvard Alumni Association
suggested that the celebra-
tion of the Massachusetts
Tercentenary be staged in
Jaltimore, it was Mr. An-
drews who prepared an his-
torical play and combined
therein a commemoration of
the 201st anniversary of the
first legislative assembly in
America with the 300th an-
niversary of the landing of
the Mayflower in New Eng-
land.

In 1929 Mr. Andrews
was called upon to provide
50 historical floats to cele-
anniversary of the beginnings of “Bal-
and in 1932 he was asked to provide
an appropriate commemoration of George Washington's
200th birthday. That request resulted in Baltimore's
staging what was described as ‘“‘perhaps the most un-
usual bicentennial celebration in the United States.”

Authorities who have examined Mr. Andrews’ “Soul
of Maryland” are enthusiastic in their praise of the
manuscript. It is complete in detail, historically accurate,
and represents an enormous amount of work by the
author, stamping him as a student of historical events.

E Ak A). ee

I

a eh. A ee Oe

 

Generals on the Warpath Again

By Ricuarp PowE tt Carrer, Director Washington and Lee News Bureau

OACHED again this year by Warren (Tex) Til-
son, with Harry K. (Cy) Young as associate
mentor, the Generals of Washington and Lee
opened their season with three straight victories over
tough foes. Not only did the Blue and White come out
on the big end of the score in those games—their goal
line was uncrossed.
In their fourth
game, though, the
Generals were stopped
by the Mountaineers
of West Virginia,
12-0, in the annual
Charleston classic.
Both the Kentucky
and Maryland games
were won on muddy
fields that called for
smart football. At
Charleston, the Gen-
erals had one of those
proverbial ‘“‘off-days”’
on the gridiron—even
the experts say the
team was not up to
par that afternoon.
Witness the results
of the first clashes:
Washington and Lee
19, Wofford College
QO; Washington and
Lee 7, Kentucky 0;
Washington and Lee
7, Maryland 0.
Fifteen letter men
reported for duty
when the squad went
into camp for the sec-
ond consecutive year —— ;
at Nimrod Hall, deep Vo VA\ ONK’
in the Allegheny ™™ ,
mountains about thirty miles from Lexington. Added
to these veterans was a capable set of reserves and
a promising lot of sophomores.
Letter men back in uniform are Joe Arnold, quar-
terback; Jay Henthorne, end; Lewis Martin, guard;
Bill Seaton, quarterback; Hugo Bonino, playing guard

      
 
   
   

~
“

4s

   

     
 

[8 ]

this season; Jack Bailey, fullback; Bill Ellis, end;
Charlie Smith, end; George Glynn, center; Bill Dyer,
tackle; Ed Seitz, center; John McFadden, halfback ;
Captain Sam (Monk) Mattox, halfback; Clancy Car-
men, tackle; and Chip Jones, fullback.

The Generals of 1934 have one of the heaviest lines
in the history of the University. From end to end, the
forewall averages just
about 200 pounds, and
from tackle to tackle,
207 pounds. Bolster-
ing the strength of the
line is Tubby Owings,
of Norfolk, Va., soph-
omore tackle who tips
the scales at an even
257. pounds and
fast on his feet for all
that. They don’t get
through Owings. An-
other promising soph-
omore lineman is

|

| BETTER Go
HOME AN GET
MN BROTHERS
THESE Guys ARE
TouGH!

  

  
      
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

is
HE 1S THE LAST
OF MAT TOY
BroTHERS, FAMOUS
IN VIRGINIA FooTBALL
SINCE 1919 WHEN FIRST
ONE CAME TO
WASHINGTON AND LEE

7

 

 

—  JPuane Berry, of Vin-
ton, Va., who weighs
in at 195.

The Washington
and Lee backfield is
lighter in comparison,
but boasts the speedy
veterans Mattox, Ar-
nold, Seaton, Jones,
and Bailey.

Eee Among the ball
Plays Hauraxk Carriers, too, is Wil-
wien tae ton Sample, hefty

sophomore who scor-
ed in the Wofford
game and who car-
ried the ball over for
the touchdown _ that
broke the Maryland
jinx. Sample, a former Culver star, promises to go
places with the Generals. And there is Preston Moore,
another sophomore, who has been looking particularly
good at half.

 

The Generals splashed through mud and water for
glory in their triumphs over both Kentucky and Mary-

eB eee nN

land, both games being played on fields made soggy by
rain. In the Kentucky game it was Bailey, appropriately
enough, who smashed through for the lone tally of the
annual clash. Bailey is a native of Maysville, Kentucky.

The Generals this year have a “quadruple threat”

man, some dub him, in Bill Ellis, also a
Kentuckian. Ellis plays end, punts with
deadly accuracy and amazing distance,
runs with the ball, and throws a fair
pass. It was the splendid kicking of E1-
lis that saved the day in the Kentucky
game, because time after time he got off
punts of over fifty yards, and some of
them carried up to seventy.

Coach Tilson has two dependable
pivot men, George Glynn in the starting
lineup and Ed Seitz for a capable re-
serve man. Glynn, who weighs a mere
189 pounds, is handling the ball this
year with a precision that has marked
him for recognition in the eyes of sports
writers and fans of the country.

Captain Mattox is the last of the
famous Mattox brothers, stars of the
gridiron since the
first of them came to
Washington and Lee
back in 1919. And
like the others he is
dubbed “Monk,” al-
though the name
doesn’t seem to stick
to him as it did
to his precedessors
here.

The Washington
and lee eleven is
coached for the sec-
ond consecutive year
by Warren E. (Tex)
Tilson, a stellar play-
er in his own right
while at Washing-
ton and Lee. Asso-
ciate coach is Harry
K. (Cy) Young,
alumni secretary.

Amos Bolen, cap-
tain of the Generals
in 1933, is coaching
the Little Generals
this year. He is as-
sisted by Pat Mit-

chell, ball carrier of DUANE BERRY

 

 

ye A Gf 2 PU

several years ago with the Generals, and by Joe Saw-
yers, star back last year.

Again this season the Generals are playing a dif-
ficult schedule that includes Princeton after West Vir-
ginia; then Virginia Tech at Lexington as a homecom-

ing battle; the Navy at Annapolis; Vir-
ginia at Charleston; William and Mary
at Williamsburg, which will be the In-
dians’ homecoming game; and South
Carolina at Columbia, S. C., on Thanks-
giving day.

Plans are being made in Lexington
for one of the biggest Homecoming day
celebrations in years. The Generals will
play at eleven o'clock in the morning—
the date is October 27—and will have
as their time-honored foes the Gobblers
of Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

Indications are that a capacity crowd
will attend the game, and extra stands
are being erected on Wilson field, the
scene of the battle.

Alumni who return for Homecoming
will have one of those rare opportuni-
ties to see all of the
“Big Four” teams of
Virginia in action on
one day. The Uni-
versity of Virginia
and the Virginia Mil-
itary Institute will
meet in the after-
noon to make the
day a proverbial
football holiday.

Two dances are
planned as part of
the Washington and
lL.ee Homecoming
celebration, one I*ri-
day night and the
other Saturday. Jelly
Leftwich and _ his
band are signed to
play for the dances,
which will be held in
Doremus gymnas-
ium.

To top it off and
make the day com-
plete for everyone
concerned, students
will get a_ holiday
from classes.

ae oe Boke: ee. eae

I

ey ce ger

LL. moe

Faculty Changes, 1934-1935

Se NEW MEN, one an alumnus, joined the staff

J of Washington and Lee on the opening of the
185th session of the University, and one who had been
absent from the faculty for two years returned to Lex-
ington.

The new men are Dr. Leon P. Smith, who suc-
ceeds the late Dr. Benjamin De la Warr Easter as pro-
fessor of romance languages; and Richard Powell Car-
ter, who was graduated in 1929, and who has become
director of publicity and instructor in journalism.
George S. Jackson, who served as supply instructor in
English at Washington and Lee in 1931-32, returns
in that capacity.

Dr. Smith, a native Georgian, received his bach-
elor’s degree from Emory and served as principal of a
Georgia high school for some time. Later he went to
Chicago for his doctor’s degree and was retained by
that university. For the past five years he was a mem-
ber of the department of French at Chicago, and as-
sistant dean for the university for two years before

but remained out of
college two years
after completing his
sophomore year, and
returned to receive
his A.B. in 1929. He
was a member of the
editorial staff of the
Richmond —_Times-
Dispatch for three
and a half years,
going from there to
Greensboro, N. C.
to become state news
editor of the Greens-
boro Daily News. He
resigned that position
August 1 to come to
Washington and Lee
and assume charge of

 

resigning to join the Washington and Lee faculty.
Mr. Carter entered Washington and Lee in 1923

 

Dr. Leon P. Smith

the University news
bureau.

A graduate of Richard P. Carter
Bowdoin, Mr. Jackson holds a master’s degree from Harvard, where
for some time he was an instructor in English. During his absence
from the Washington and Lee faculty he served as assistant professor
of English at the Portland, Maine, extension of Boston university.

 

 

 

 

Several changes in the status of older faculty members also took
place with the inauguration of the 1934-35 session. Professor Hale
Houston became acting head of the department of engineering to
succeed the late Dr. W. T. Lyle. Dr. M. H. Stow was made acting
head of the department of geology, succeeding Dr. H. C. Campbell,
who died last April.

Professor O. W. Riegel has become head of the department of
journalism, succeeding William L. Mapel, who resigned to accept a
newspaper position in Delaware.

F. James Barnes, II, was promoted from the status of instructor
to that of an assistant professor of political science.

 

William L. Mapel Featured in “Time”

THE MAGAZINE Time recently contained a feature article entitled,
“Wilmington Tight-rope,” concerning William L,. Mapel, former head
of the journalism department at Washington and Lee and now editor
of the Dupont papers in Wilmington. The article is accompanied by a
photograph of Mr. Mapel with the label, “he mixed dynamite with
discretion.”

{ 10 |

= ee ee ee ee

——

New, Specialized Biography of Lee
By An ALUMNUS

WaALterR Preston, class of 1915, of the Virginia
and West Virginia Prestons, son of John Alfred Pres-
ton, ’69, soldier and student under Lee and a former
trustee of the University, has sent a notice of the pub-
lication of his specialized biography of General Lee
and a copy of the book.

It is published by the Antioch Press of Antioch
College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

They call it a monograph which gives an intellectual
flavor to the publication but is unfair to it in scope and
format. It is a book 61%4x9% inches, 116 pages, and
sells for two dollars. It represents a specialized, unfilled
niche in the historiography of Robert E. Lee.

Its title is Lee, West Point and Lexington. It covers
lee, the Educator, and the author sticks strictly to his
field, without being tempted astray. Lee as a cadet at
West Point and as Superintendent of the Academy oc-
cupy less than half of the contents. Its larger and more
important part is a documentation of Lee as President
of Washington College. The material has come from
original sources and is employed in the manner one
would expect of the careful student, for Walter Pres-
ton is Dr. Preston, Ph.D., Johns Hopkins.

This book is strongly recommended to all admirers
of General Lee and to students of his life, career
and influence. It will be an indispensable item in all
Lee bibliography and it is pleasant reading to all who
have in their hearts and memories, the same source of
sentiment and pride that the author has used effectively
and successfully.

Walter Preston is the nephew of the Hon. John W.
Davis, on his mother’s side. His equipment for his
task was opulent and well-balanced.

I

. 6 Geshe 7 2 ee

Orders can be filled by Henry Boley, Lexington,
or any book store or ordered direct from the Antioch
Press.

It would be a very intelligent and practical act in
public relations for the benefit of the University if
alumni would ask for the book at the public libraries and
have it ordered upon request. It is an important and
influential contribution to the higher advertising of the
University, its history and foundations.

 

William H. Keister, 1894

HARRISONBURG, VIRGINIA, had a great celebration
last June in honor of forty years of service of Wil-
liam H. Keister, Superintendent of the Public Schools.

The ‘Keister Day”
celebration was a_ two-
event affair. It began
when the city council,
the school board, other
city officials, state
ficials, school faculty and
prominent citizens gave
a dinner in honor of Mr.
Keister at the Kava-
naugh hotel. At this din-
ner a large silver loving
bowl was presented to
Mr. Keister, and an oil
painting of Mr. Keister
was presented to the
school board.

At Wilson Hall in the
evening an elaborate program of music, speeches of
appreciation and commendation of Mr. Keister’s work
gave evidence of the enthusiasm of
townsmen.

of-

 

his fellow

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 11 ]

1. owe: A. 2 ee

Heads National Bar Association

Av THE RECENT meeting of the American Bar As-
sociation, Scott M. Loftin, of Jacksonville, Fla., was
elected president of the association. He was graduated
in law at Washington and Lee in 1899 and has a very
large, lucrative practice in Florida. His alma mater at
the June finals conferred upon him the degree of LL.D.
For some time he has been vice-president and general
counsel of the Flagler railroad corporation.

This is the third Washington and Lee man who has
headed the American Bar association. ‘Two others were
John Randolph Tucker, and his son Harry St. George
Tucker. Mr. ‘Tucker, senior, beginning with 1870 after
being the attorney general of Virginia became profes-
sor of law at Washington and Lee. Previous to his
death in 1897 he served for twelve years in congress.
Mr. Tucker, junior, a graduate of Washington and
lee, was elected a professor in the law faculty in 1897
to succeed his father, and was later for five years dean
of the law school at the University. The latter served
fifteen years in congress.

 

Library Gets New Facilities

SOMETHING new in the old library!

Realizing that for many years the library has. been
in need of a more modern and effective lighting ar-
rangement, the Board of Trustees by special appro-
priation has made it possible for the University Car-

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN

BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

 

I

uA GC a 2 it: SS

negie Library to be equipped with “one of the finest
modern arrangements in library lighting.” In the ro-
tunda reading tables fitted with “Higbie Reading
Lamps,” designed by Prof. H. H. Higbie of the Uni-
versity of Michigan. These lamps by an ingenious mir-
ror system of indirect lighting make possible an even
light distribution at the proper reading angle. To aid in
correct lighting the tables have also been lowered two
inches. Higbie lamps, which have been called “the latest
thing in science and good sense,” are also used in the
library of Sweet Briar college.

Sesides the main reading room, other parts of the
library have been equipped with new lighting arrange-
ments. The English and History Seminars and Refer-
ence room were fitted last summer with new fixtures
under the direction of Dr. Dickey.

To aid further reading comfort Miss McCrum an-
nounces that arm chairs “of a more roomy design” are
gradually being placed in seminars and alcoves.

 

Tally-Ho!

THe University oF BuFrFALo “BEE” recently car-
ried a short item declaring that “At Washington and
Lee, fox-hunting is a major sport.”

Can you imagine a jolly group of senior lawyers,
in pink coats and black bowlers, riding to the hounds
the fields of Rockbridge county, shouting
Yoicks! Tally-ho! and all that sort of thing?

across

 

 

Boley’s Book Store
HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid

co. es @16d-@ G& be o b. 0° S48 @

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

[ 12 |

 

- 2 oe

I

an A Bee SO ee

Local Alumni Association Notes

Charleston, W. Va.

Juty 26, with the thermometer registering 104 in
the shade, fifty alumni met at the Edgewood Coun-
trv Club in Charleston, W. Va. Notwithstanding the
heat, this was a very delightful meeting. In addition to
alumni, eight under-graduates were present as guests.
A colored orchestra played during the dinner and when
the meeting adjourned the guests had a refreshing
swim in the club pool.

Huntington, W. Va.

A DINNER MEETING of the Tri-State Association
was held at the Frederick Hotel, Huntington, W. Va.,

on May 28, 1934.

Of especial interest, and discussed fully, was the
question of securing of new students. During the eve-
ning Wendell Mann of Ashland reported as to and
concerning the fund which had heretofore been raised
for the assistance of men at the University, giving a
detailed account of the men at the University from this
section, especially those from Ashland. Every man
present was called upon and made a few remarks.

It was suggested that, and in compliance therewith,
a motion was made and duly seconded appointing a
committee from Huntington to get in touch with the
graduating class at Huntington High school and ob-
tain a list of young men who
might be interested in and ac-
ceptable students for the Uni-
versity. On this committee the
following were named: John
McVey, Joe Dingess, and
Frank Bailey. They were in-
structed to secure such list,
contact the men and ask for
assistance from fellow alumni
in trying to bring before likely
and acceptable students, the
merits and reasons for attend-
ing the University.

A meeting of the Executive
Committee was decided upon
to be held sometime during the
summer—the exact date and
place to be agreed upon by

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni in California,
Organization Luncheon, Los Angeles,
July 14, 1934
First row, Koontz, Harper, Ponder, (87 years of age).
Second row, center, Doss, Wharton, O’Brien, Hon.
Ball, (hat on), Havlin. Third row, Gray, Collins, Bell.

members of such committee, at which meeting plans are
to be formulated for publicity and the arousing of in-
terest towards having a full attendance at a regular
Alumni Meeting to be held in September.

Dr. MacCorkle made some very appropriate re-
marks and also spoke, at short length, concerning the
life of the late Henry D. Campbell, and at the ad-
journment, a silent prayer, after which Dr. MacCorkle
said a short prayer in reverence to the character and
memory of the late Dr. Campbell.

The following were present:

Dr. E. W. MacCorkle, A. Wendell Mann, and EF.
W. MacCorkle, of Ashland, Ky.; Joe Hobson, of Pres-
tonsburg, Ky.; and of Huntington, Rev. W. P. Hooper,
Judge I. P. Baer, FE. H. Long, Joe Dingess, R. P. Ash-
bury, J. . Moore, John McVey, W. T. Lovins, George
Keller, Dr. 1. W. Gilkison, Jr., and J. W. Fitchett.

Southern California

A stRoncG and enthusiastic representation from the
87 Washington and Lee alumni living in Southern
California (a total of 115 in the State of California)
met for an organization luncheon in the Los Angeles
Y. M. C. A. on Saturday, July 14, 1934.

That the air was redolent, and the atmosphere sur-
charged, with the Washington and Lee spirit will be
evident from the reading of these lines. Flags, flowers,
and florid oratory, alliteratively speaking, marked the
occasion. This is not mere fig-
ure of speech. The flags were
Old Glory and a Confederate
flag—one that had flown in the
Shenandoah Valley, in old
Shepherdstown, in the stirring
days of ’61-’62. The white and
blue flowers and several Wash-
ington and Lee pennants car-
ried out the appropriate color
scheme. And the oratory—
one has but to mention the
names of H. §S. Harper, ‘95,
(at Washington and Lee with
Vance and with John W.
Davis); of William A. Col-
lins, "92, (who has long been
agitating for a local Washing-
ton and Lee organization) ;

[ 13 ]

2:78. AY .k. | ee

of Preston L. Gray, ’90, (who with the fire of a
true collegian asked and answered his own ques-
tion, as follows: “What is it that has made Washing-
ton and Lee men leaders everywhere?” “A spirit per-
meating all of them. Not brick walls or green grass
made Washington and Lee what it is, but that spirit
which, through the years, has held to the eternal veri-
ties’: of Brian Bell, ’08, successful head of the As-
sociated Press for the entire Southwest, who, this
writer predicts, will be more and more heard from in
the coming years, and whose flair for words reminds
one of a happy combination of Ben Tillman, Claude
G. Bowers, and Henry W. Grady. Spellbinder, that
he is, Bell held his audience captivated for many min-
utes with his anecdotes and reminders of other days.
Chairman Louis Knott Koontz, ’08, properly reserved
Bell’s response for the last item on the program.

Alumni comrades everywhere will be interested in
another unique feature of this California get-together ;
that is, in true California spirit we claim that this lunch-
eon had presented the oldest and youngest living alumni.
To be specific, we had with us John Flournoy Ponder,
‘67, who knew General Lee, across the table from Bailey
Wharton, ’36, who will shortly return to the Lexington
campus. Mr. Ponder, with marvelously clear mind, gave
a fine close-up of General Lee as he knew him.

Reminiscences, renewals of friendships, and reso-
lutions completed a crowded two hours and more, and
this is, again, no mere verbiage and alliteration. For
one thing, the physical reminders of our alma mater
were much in evidence; the beautiful steel engraving
of the University, recently distributed, was prominent-
ly displayed; members brought old catalogues, saved
back from their senior years; one alumnus brought an
ancient Calyx, and thereby started a contest to determine
who in California possesses the oldest copy.

All the foregoing furnished the ideal background
for a reading of the timely telegrams we received that
same day from President Gaines, Bill Claudy, Walter
A. McDonald, and a letter from “Cy” Young. All of
the wires breathed a friendship that only college men
can understand. Their language was characteristic of
their senders. Vigorous applause followed President
Gaines’ postscript, which read: ‘““May I add a personal
hope that sometime in the near future I shall be able
to visit this group.”

Many were the resolves of the meeting. Some of
the more important were:

(1) That a big annual banquet, befitting the occa-
sion and the group, be held regularly on January 19;

(2) That the alumni gather often during the com-
ing year in downtown Los Angeles for informal
luncheons ;

I

mR a ee ee a

(3) That a committee be at once constituted to
study the question of sending worthy young men from
California to Washington and Lee, and then recom-
mend action. Chairman Koontz appointed Brian Bell
and Bailey Wharton on this committee ;

(4) That the mimeographed list of 115 Washing-
ton and Lee alumni in California, mailed to each alum-
nus in the State prior to the Los Angeles luncheon, be
kept strictly up to date ;

(5) That contesting teams be brought out ever so
often from Lexington to the Pacific Coast—beginning
with the oratory and the debate teams—departments
in which Washington and Lee traditionally has main-
tained superiority, irrespective of her opponents’ size
and prestige.

(6) That Bell and Koontz be constituted the tem-
porary officers for the coming year of the newly or-
ganized alumni chapter in Southern California, the
same to determine between them which should be pres-
ident and which secretary ;

(7) That Brian Bell head a committee that will
work up the necessary plans to bring President Gaines
to California at an early date—the time tentatively
suggested being next Christmas. Since during the
Christmas vacation thousands of teachers assemble for
a three-day Institute, advantage could be taken of these
gatherings to provide him with capacity audiences.

After the reading of numerous wires, letters and
cards from alumni over the State who expressed their
regret at being absent and their appreciation at being
advised by letter of the presence over California of
their class-mates, the new chapter adjourned until Sep-
tember. Among those present and who could be cor-
raled to stand for a group picture were John Flournoy
Ponder, 67 ; Preston Lewis Gray, 90; William Andrew
Collins, 92; H. S. Harper, "95; Thomas Ball, ’03;
Brian Bell, 08; T. N. Havlin, ’08; Louis Knott
Koontz, 08; J. M. O’Brien, 08; H. A. Doss, 12;
Gaines Hon, ’26; and Bailey Wharton, ’36. Among the
fraternities represented were Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa
Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sig-
ma Phi Epsilon.

(Signed) Louis Knorr Koontz

Saint Louis, Mo.

Tue ALUMNI SECRETARY'S ardor was matched by
the temperature in visiting St. Louis in mid-July when
the thermometer on that blasted and scorched plain
reached 108 in celebration of the event.

In spite of the catastrophe of the heat, fourteen
alumni, upon a few hours’ notice, collected at luncheon
and a very cordial and delightful informal meeting
took place.

[ 14]

 

T H E A 1 We NN

a

John Patterson’s dynamic management of the af-
fairs of the local Washington and Lee men seemed to
take the heat as a challenge. He sat at his telephone
and gave invitations that were accepted upon almost
no notice at all and Cy Young was treated to very cor-
dial hospitality and instructed to carry a special invi-
tation to Dr. Gaines to come to St. Louis in the fall
for a full and ceremonial gathering. Mr. Larimore, en-
tirely unperturbed by the heat was co-host. He and the
president of the local association, John Patterson, are
watching both factors in the lively success the St. Louis
alumni are making of their obligations to the Univer-
sity. They are keeping the alumni of the district mind-
ful of their duties in knowing each other and in the
benefits of such contacts and in watching for likely ma-
terial to send to Lexington for the freshman class. At
the moment there is a large number of St. Louis stu-
dents of exceptionally fine quality in college and with
the help of the older men and these boys still upon the
campus, six new students have enrolled this year.

The Alumni Secretary visited headquarters of both
the local preparatory schools in St. Louis from which
our share of the best material is coming.

Three New Organizations

Dr. GaAINEs and Cy Young met with alumni in a
series of organization meetings in the spring in Cin-
cinnati, Detroit, and Chicago.

Cincinnati

The meeting in Cincinatti was held April 30 at
the University Club with thirty alumni present from
that section of the Ohio Valley. Dr. Gaines was the
principal speaker, and the gathering was a most en-
thusiastic one. The following officers were elected:
Roger Bear, ’14, president; Rev. William Pendleton,
‘03, vice-president ; and Merrill Budnick, ’26, secretary.

Detroit
On May 1, alumni from Detroit and surrounding

territory met at the Wardell Hotel for dinner. There
were twenty-nine present, this being a large majority
of the alumni in the state, some of them driving as far
as two hundred miles in order to attend. Dr. Edward
Lyons, 12, was elected president, and Chan Gordon,
‘31, secretary.
Chicago

The next day, May 2, a dinner meeting was held
in Chicago, at the Illinois Athletic Club, with thirty-
five alumni on hand. This was the first meeting of
Washington and Lee alumni to be held in Chicago.
Reuben A. Lewis, '16, presided and Dr. Gaines was
again the principal speaker of the occasion. The officers
clected were Reuben A. Lewis, president, and John
Culley, 33, secretary.

I

i we oe ee. ee

Four Kinds of College Students

AN INTERESTING classification of college students
as to their aims and objectives was made by Dr. Rob-
ert H. Tucker in his address before the Association of
Virginia Colleges. Dr. Tucker pointed out that there
are at least four fairly distinct groups of students on
every college campus, which he characterized as fol-
lows:

(1) A-small group, representatives of the older
type, whose tastes and interests are served by the pre-
professional curriculum.

(2) A non-professional group, seeking a cultural
and social experience which they feel will prepare them
for more effective living.

(3) A group who somehow regard the college as
affording a wide avenue to wealth and power.

(4) A group whose aspirations extend but little
beyond the fashion and prestige connected with the
college contact.

This is an interesting classification. Nearly every
student here, or what is perhaps better, nearly every
man enrolled here, belongs in one of these groups.
Like most other old schools, Washington and Lee is
historically a university for groups one and two; it
still is, although group four is firmly entrenched here
now, too, giving a full quota to that more general and
inclusive group, the “sandbags.” It is groups one and
two that have given Washington and Lee its respected
position in the educational world, and it is these types
of students who will keep it there. The other groups
have nothing to contribute, unless the University is
to become a glorified country club, with just enough
trace of cultural atmosphere to beguile the folks back
home into financing four or five years of play. Nor can
a small college hope to compete with the large ones in
giving the highly specialized and technical training it
takes to draw the big salaries. Either the student must
get this outside of college or in some institution espec-
ially prepared to give it. Thus it is apparant that Wash-
ington and Lee is most adequate to meet the needs of
groups one and two and that these groups are most
desirable to the University—From the Ring-tum Phi.

 

A Commencement 85 Years Ago

DurING COMMENCEMENT last June Professor L. L.
Campbell, M.A. ’87, sent an account of a commencement
85 years ago which he ran across in some old papers of
his father’s. The contrast between the simplicity of this
celebration and Finals of ’34 will be interesting par-
ticularly to those who were fortunate enough last June
to participate in the concentrated gayety.

[ 15 ]

Ath Se oe

I

MA G A 2 Tt OMe

 

Class

1933—ALLEN H. Worrorp appears to be in the fam-
ily firm of Wofford Brothers, from his letterhead, Gen-
eral Insurance, Real Estate, Johnson City, Tenn.

1933—J. M. INGRAM entered the law school of Cum-
berland University at Lebanon, Tennessee, in Septem-
ber, 1933, but later transferred to the Woodrow Wilson
Law School in Atlanta, Georgia. He was planning to
take both the Georgia and ‘Tennessee bar exams in
June, last.

1933—Aucustus P. THomson has a government job
in Washington. His address is 1449 Girard St., N. W.

1933—L. M. Garrison is in Easley, S. C.

1933—ArtTHUR LAMAR has been working in a Wash-
ington Bank since September, 1933, and attending the
Institute of Banking on the side. He expects to go into
foreign service with the Chase National Bank. He acted
as co-agent with Happy Vickers in contacting the class
of 1933.

1932—Bos Hoaptey had a year in the New York
School of Fine and Applied Arts, and a year in Hon-
olulu and California; then graduate work at Indiana
University.

1932—H. Harrison Husrer attended the University
of Alabama in 1933 and was married there to Miss
Harriet White Sylivent, of Greenville, N. C., who was
a freshman at Alabama. They have been living in New
York for about a year.

1932—Everetr (Gus) Cross is a reporter for the
Washington Daily News.

1931—Harris Cox is with the Geographical Service,
Inc., located, when last heard from, about fifty miles
north of the Orinco River; nearest town, Ciudad Boli-
var, Venezuela, S. A.

1931—Invitations were received in the Alumni Office
to the marriage of Rev. GEorcke ALLEN FLEEcE, B.A.,
’31, to Miss Isabel Berry, which took place on July 30,
in Montreat, North Carolina.

1931—Frank Micron Smiru, following graduation,
went to the Harvard School of Business and took the
regular two-year course there. He is now with L. M.
Demarest and Associates, at 230 Park Avenue, New
York. The work of this firm consists of buying situa-
tions which would provide suitable new business for

Notes

the manufacturers who employ them for this\ purpose.
Frank is a junior partner in the firm.

1930—M. Puito Linpsk&y has been connected with his
father since May in the Lindsey Lumber and Export
Co., of Mobile, Ala. He was married in October, 1932,
and his home address is 53 North Georgia Avenue.

1930—ALpBert Steves, III, is with the family firm,
the Steves Sash & Door Co., in Fort Worth and Wich-
ita Falls. His home is at Fort Worth.

1930—F. L.. SHipMAN is practicing law in Troy, Ohio.
His firm is Shipman & Shipman with offices in the
Peoples Building and Savings Building.

1930—Cuarces G. ALLAN is living in Fernandina,
Florida.

1930—R. C. (Dick) AMMERMAN is practicing law
with his uncle in Paris, France. His address is 5 Ave-
nue de L/’Opera.

1930—JosEpH CARSON WHITSON says that for the last
four years he has done nothing but look after some of
the farms, reclaim a spoiled horse, breed pheasants,
train a bird dog and read. Now, however, this life of
ease is over and he has a job as salesman with the
Alabama Power Company.

1930—JosepH FE. JAFFEE-has changed his address from
Cincinnati to 319 Duncan Ave., Macon, Georgia. He
recently resumed his law studig@@ at Mercer University.

1930—W. V. Porter has beeff married for over three
years and has a son about tWo years old. He is now
working in a C. C. C. Camp, has a 2nd Lieutenant’s
commission in the Field Artillery Reserves. His ad-
dress is C. C. C. 2411, Hollister, N. C.

1930—Joun R. Myrick is married and is living at
Girard, Louisiana.

1930—FraNK S. HANNA is a farmer and insurance
man in St. Joseph, Mo.

1930—FrRaNK O. Evans is with the Gold Buying Bu-
reau of Atlanta, Georgia. He writes an interesting let-
ter giving the news that Ben Ayars, ’31, was married
in June and that he was the best man. He says that
Kuc Reeves, LL.B., ’27, is working in the same firm
with him in Atlanta.

1930—J. T. Moscn, following graduation was employ-
ed with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co., at Hunt-

[ 16 ]

 

T H E Ak AY a CN

os BS(S.TS95 Ws3rlalw v.10 08.\934- May 1935

ington, W. Va. Unfortunately he had a severe illness
from which he has now recovered and is a present
working as supervisor of construction on an athletic
stadium at Tarr, Pennsylvania, having obtained a tem-
porary leave of absence from the railway company.

1929—JaAMEsS J. (JIM) STEINHEIMER writes from
Hollywood a delightful letter full of amusing incidents
and disillusionment. He was sent to Hollywood by the
National Screen Service and his job is “going from
studio to studio, watching all pictures in process of
production and yanking from them scenes that the
above company can use in advertising the features on
the screen .. . an announcement flashes on the screen:
it says ‘COMING ATTRACTIONS’—then with a lot
of fanfare, the trailers, or pre-announcements, or pre-
views, as the uninitiated prefer to call them, appear on
the screen and everybody leaves the theatre—that is my
work.

“IT miss the old school and the long walk along the
shabby, shaded flagstones of Lexington to the campus
—I miss the genial ‘Hi Gentlemen’—‘Dock’ Shannon,
Fitz Flournoy and that grand old man whose passing
I regretted so intensely, ‘Cutie’ Easter—I miss the fun
of rushing to the Post Office—and finding an empty
box—I miss the football team that cost me so much
money—and the warm sirocco of the grandest, laziest
town south of the Mason-Dixon line—and I’m out here
in the land of tinsel and rouged cheeks where every
waitress is a potential or thwarted movie star—where,
when they bring you a plate of beans, the gals pull a
Greta Garbo from the kitchen to the table in the hope
that some fat ex-pants-presser will see them and give
them a job in pictures .. .”

1929—-Art Simmons is in the furniture and under-
taking business in Adams, Massachusetts.

1929—Crartes D. Merckx is with the Jefferson Wood
Working Co., Louisville, Kentucky.

1929—Grorcrk M. Wricut, Jr., is Assistant Superin-
tendent of the Republic Cotton Mills Numbers 1 and
2. He has had this position for over two years.

1929—Grorcr W. THamEs, after leaving Washington
and Lee, attended the University of Florida, graduat-
ing from there with the LL.B. degree. Is a member of
the Rogers, Hazard & Thames law firm of Jacksonville,

Florida, with offices in the Atlantic National Bank
Building.

1929-_Jaws EK. BAIN is with the Teacher’s Training
School, Richland, Mich.

1929—Don P. Trtvar took his B.S. in Mechanical
Engineering at Georgia Tech, in June, 1932, since which
time he has been employed as a Student Engineer

I

a a Sa ee

in the Distribution Department of the Virginia Elec-
tric and Power Company, Fredericksburg, Virginia.

1929—Givpert A. LApp, JR., is in the insurance bus-
iness in Mobile, Ala.

1929—J. W. Tankarp finished at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School a year ago and will be at
the Philadelphia General Hospital for the ensuing
year.

1928—FrepErIcK M. P. PEARSE, JR., is practicing law
in his father’s firm in Newark, N. J. He lives in Me-
tuchen and he and his wife (Emily Penick) and their
young son, Frederick Montague Penley Pearse, III,
get back to Lexington frequently.

1928—Gray YEATMAN was married in February,
1934. He is with the North Arkansas Commission Co.,
and lives at Batesville.

1928—WiiiAm J. Luria has recently moved from
Reading, Pa., to Philadelphia. He is with Luria Bro-
thers & Co., Inc., Iron and Steel, Lincoln-Liberty Bldg.

1927—C. W. Cuerry, JR., is married and has a son
three years old. He is with the Jackson Branch Office
of the New York Life Insurance Company at Jackson,
Mississippi.

1926—Francis (Suorty) Warers is practicing law
in Accomac, Va.

1926—Epp1k FELSENTHAL is with the Mississippi Mu-
tual Life Insurance Company, Memphis, Tenn., with
offices in the Farnsworth Building.

1926—Rerv. Bruce F. GANNAWAY is a minister and
lives at 617 N. Parramour Street, Orlando, Florida.

1926—CuARLIE HAMILTON is Sports Editor for the
Richmond News Leader, Richmond, Virginia.

1926—CHarLEs WeEsLEY Lowry, JR., who took his
Ph.D. from Oxford, September, 1933, is a professor
in the Episcopal Theological Seminary, Alexandria,
Virginia, occupying the chair left vacant by the death
of Dr. W. Cosby Bell, also an alumnus of Washing-
ton and Lee.

1926—PauL Scuucnart, of Harrisburg, Pennsylva-
nia, calls frequently at the Alumni Office.

1925—Darsy Brown is living at 3320 Cliff Road, Bir-
mingham, Ala. He gets back to Lexington frequently
and his visits are always enjoyed in the Alumni Office.

1925—Dr. WitiiaAmM W. E cin is a member of the
staff of the Sheppard & Pratt Hospital at Towson,
Maryland.

1925—M. R. Bruin is teaching in the Franklin Day

[ 17 ]

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

11934

A toy a =

 

a SB I (ge Se eee RR A Oe. ee
= sc4 Ges 7. iS eg ; ee | 3 0,9 @ ”
School, Franklin & Cathedral Streets, Baltimore, Mary- kept pretty busy trying to keep them all going at the
land. He is helping in the organization work of an proper clip. He was married in 1926 and has a son
alumni chapter in Baltimore, Maryland. five and a half years old.
1924—H. W. Virern, Jr., M.D., was married June 2. 1921—James Moreton Mackey taught school in ‘21
He is now with the Jackson Clinic as their orthopedic and ’22; went to Newport News in the fall of ’22; was
and industrial surgeon at Madison, Wisconsin. employed by Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry
Dock Company and is still with them in the order de-
1923—J. H. Rocers is Claim Agent for the Acme Fast partment.
Freight, Inc., and has moved from Gibsland, La., to E
5 ; a. 1921—Wixu1AM B. Parrerson is a Presbyterian Mis-
Shreveport. His address is 166 Albany St. P ; , :
sionary at Tenghsien, Shantung, China.
1923—S. C. Ocpurn, Jr., received the first M. S. de- ’
re cai ta - ee, 1921—O. B. Stumons received his law degree from
gree in Chemistry at Washington and Lee University Ss eT Inisanhitie dak. labile. aie Mak tease eae
i V ‘lori las n p 1
in 1923. From 1923 to 1925 he was assistant Professor e ee ie eee es ee ee
; : Miami since
of Chemistry at Washington and Lee. Got his Ph.D.
from the University of North Carolina in 1926. Ac- 1920—Home_kr S. Bryant (Buck) is with the Imperial
cepted the position of Professor of Chemical Engi- Coal Sales Co., at Lynchburg, Virginia.
neering and head of the department at Bucknell Uni- ; ; : :
ne a ; feels 1920—GrErALp FE. Corry is now at 59 N. Monterey
versity, Lewisburg, Pa., in the fall of 1926. This po- a
ae St., Mobile, Alabama, and is a wholesale jobber and
sition he held until 1933 at which time he was appoint- ae ‘
a ay 4 Ta : distributor largely interested in foreign trade. After
ed to the position of Chairman of the Engineering Di- cote
Senge Ue leaving Washington and Lee he was located for a time
vision at Bucknell, and since that time has divided his aie a
Ps in New Orleans, then in Cuba, and later at Mobile with
time between teaching and administrative work, having ; he
as a various steamship lines. We are glad to note he has
supervision over the departments of Chemical, Civil,
cs oe: eee recovered from an illness which kept him from work,
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. In this divi- ; aaa
, and hope he is sharing in the current revival of foreign
sion there are eleven faculty members and 180 stu-
; : ; business.
dents. He is married and has two children, Hugh, 11
(born in Lexington), and Jean, 5. 1920—Lesiit FE. Kevron, Jr., (RED) attended North-
; western University after leaving Washington and L
1922—Jamrs Mapison, after graduating at Washing- , ~ Ere pao om
: ‘a and took his M.D. there. He has been practicing med-
ton and Lee, attended the Law School at Loutsiana me ; : Pea th a
; eh : > ; icine with his father in Corsicana, Texas.
State University, where he graduated in 1925, since
which time he has been practicing law in Monroe, lou- 1920—EmMmetr W. PotnpEXTER is located at 25 Broad
isiana, where he is a member of the firm of Madison, Street, New York, N. Y. He writes that he is much
Madison & Fuller. He is also a member of the leg- interested in the large and active Washington and Lee
islature. Alumni Association in New York and sees some of the
; a ; members quite fre ly.
1922—L,ouis S. Jor: was Assistant United States At- Cee iss a
torney for the Southern district of Florida from April, 1920—Epwarp G. BaiLtty (Bic Ep) is now living at
1926, until December, 1931, and he says, “gained con- 1118 Grove Ave., Richmond, Virginia, and has been
siderable experience in that time.’ He resigned in De- in the real estate business for the past ten years.
cember, 1931, to form a law partnership with Judge : ;
iia ace m, Judg 1920—HotmEs Rorston, JR., is pastor of the Bethesda
Ion L. Ferris, one of the outstanding criminal lawyers s , : tees
; gs oe so Presbyterian Church at Rockbridge Baths, Virginia,
of the state. They specialize in criminal cases. He has a aes |
: almost in the shadow of the University itself. After
a son five years old. :
¢ leaving Washington and Lee he taught two years at
1922—T ED SIMMONS went to work for the Pan Amer- Milledgeville, Ga., and two at Marion, Ala. He then
ican Life Insurance Company on leaving college. After attended the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond,
going with this organization for a little over a year he Va., and the University of Edinburg at Edinburg, Scot-
was made Assistant Superintendent of Agents, and in land. He married Mary W. Long of Marion, Ala., and
1929 when his immediate superior was transferred to they have one son, Holmes, ITT.
the Latin-American Department of the Company, step- oe"
ee P ! ae 1920—Leicu B. HANEs is practicing law in Roanoke,
ped into his position with the title of Manager of the Vitsinis “ta Se Mountain ol euat Baldi
| a, in the |]
United States Agencies. The Pan-American operates 5 Pete et eee ee
in twenty-seven states and with more than seventy 1920—JamEs WALLER CALLISON is located in No. 7
branch offices scattered throughout the country, he is Echols Building, Staunton, Virginia, and is secretary-
[ 18 ]

, aie! abe tattle ot ae

a i

|
:
'
|
|

2. eee Ap £..° 0 MEN

—_—_—

treasurer of the Staunton Production Credit Associa-
tion. He is still a bachelor.

1920—HarMAN K. TRAMMEL, JR., is practicing law
in Jellico, Tenn. He married Alice S$. Cherry of Bards-
town, Kentucky, and they have two sons, aged two and
five respectively.

1919—W. R. CAMPBELL is with the Hans Watts Realty
Company in Huntington, West Virginia.

1919—Dr. SAMUEL A. ANDERSON, JR., is specializing
in diseases of children. He was married in 1930 to
Frances Webster and they have a husky son.

1919—T. H. (Trp) Evans is Rector of Christ Church,
Tuscaloosa, Ala.

1919—GiEs S. Terry is practicing medicine in Scars-
dale, New York.

1919—F RANK H. JAcops is a member of the law firm
of Jacobs and Cameron, Bel Air, Maryland.

1918—Vircit Trorrer, JR., is in the family business
of General Merchandise and Cotton Buyers at Monti-
cello, Ark. This has been a continuous business since
1881. He has not been back to the campus since leaving.

1918—Martruew W. Paxton, JR., attorney, newspaper
man, active in alumni matters, church and civic affairs.
A useful citizen of Lexington, Virginia.

1918—J. V. Mersu has not been to Lexington since
his college days but always wants to come. He saw
Washington and Lee play Princeton last fall.

1918—CuHarig LisLE says there are sixty Washing-
ton and Lee men in and around Pittsburgh. They are
planning to have a meeting some time in the near future.

1917—Cot. CHartes R. Srrisiinc, Superintendent
Missouri Military Academy, Mexico, Mo., says: ‘The
longer I spend in educational work the more I realize
that the atmosphere, the heart, the soul of an insti-
tution means vastly more in moulding the under-grad-
uate mind than all the marbled halls or huge endow-
ments. Those of us who graduated from Washington
and Lee need never bow our heads to any institution
in this all-important quality.’ Col. Stribling has been
married for ten years and has a son seven and a
daughter two.

1917—Junius B. Powrtt is with Spencer Trask &
Company, 25 Broad Street, New York.

1917—G, Raymonp Wometporr, Presbyterian Mis-
Sionary, located at Hwaianfu, Kiangsu, China, writes
an interesting letter from there. Says that the local
Government Official (Chinese) is an alumnus of Mich-
igan and Princeton and is a fine fellow trying to do his

I

a Ls a ee, ee ha, Be:

job well. Raymond is married and has three children;
feels that his work there is paying dividends that make
it worth the sacrifices involved.

1917—Rosert B. McDoucir has been nominated as
the Republican candidate for Congress from the Fourth
Congressional District of Virginia.

1917—HeErpert G. Perers, JRr., is a member of the
law firm of Peters, Lavinder, Peters & Rouse, Bristol,
Va.-Tenn.

1917—IkE SHUMAN is now with the United Features
Syndicate, having severed his connection with the Paul
Block Newspapers about May Ist. His new address is

220 Kk. 42nd Street, New York.

1916—J. Suirtty Rivey is with the Coca Cola Bottling
Works located at Roanoke, Virginia.

1916—HENbERSON Estes is an attorney and counsel-
lor-at-law in Middletown, Ohio. He has been City At-
torney for four years.

1916—E.. B. (TED) SHuL'z is with the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority, Knoxville, Tennessee.

1916—ParkKEr W. BuurMAN has had an interesting
career in the United States Consular Service. He is
stationed now at Casablanca, Morocco.

1915—J. EK. (Jimmy) CAanvrity is secretary of the
State Tax Commission of Kentucky. Joined the army
on leaving Washington and Lee and was overseas from
September, 1917, to July, 1919; was stationed at Gen-
eral Headquarters at Chaumont and while there ran
into the Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit one day
after they had been forced to retreat and leave behind
all their belongings. Lived in Washington from 1919
to 1923, returning to Kentucky in that year. Since then
has been in politics and farming. He is married and has
two children, a girl 12 and a boy 11.

1915—Rosertr P. ADAMS is a member of the law firm
of Taylor, Adams & Freeman, of ‘Trenton, Tennessee.

1915—Arruur M. Birpsatr is practicing law in Bel-
mar, New Jersey. |

1915—Mapison P. Cork has been with the Federal Re-
serve Board since the war. His address is 1735 New
Hampshire Ave, Washington, D. C.

1915—Jonan L,. Larrick is Executive Secretary of
the Y. M. C. A. Medical College of Virginia. He is
married and has two children.

1915—Grapy H. Forey is secretary of the Arkansas
Petroleum Industries Committee with offices in the Gay
Building, Little Rock, Arkansas. This is a trade or-

[ 19 ]

not 4-38 A is id eh, ee

I

Mm A 6 oh. 2 Pe Ros

 

ganization of oil men operating under the guidance
and direction of the American Petroleum Institute.

1914—The Rev. DANIEL CruMp BUCHANAN, who re-
ceived his M. A. degree at Washington and Lee in
1914, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy
by the Hartford Seminary Foundation on May 23,
1934, for research work done under the direction of the
faculty of the Kennedy School of Missions. The sub-
ject of his dissertation was “Inari—Its Origin, Develop-
ment and Nature.”

1914—Howe tt M. TANNER is judge of the Ninth Ju-
dicial Circuit Court of Bluefield, W. Va.

1914—C. H. (Jupce) Morrisserr is State Tax Com-

missioner of Virginia.

1914—W. T. (Britt) Lovins is an attorney-at-law in

the First Huntington National Bank Bldg., Hunting-
ton, W. Va.

1914—SamuEL O. LAUGHLIN, JR., is president of the
Wheeling Tile Company of Wheeling, W. Va.

1914—W. S. PHLEGAR is an Attorney-at-Law in Jones-
boro, Arkansas.

1914—GeorcE L. KeErns is with the Bible Institute of
Pennsylvania at 1418 North 16th St., Philadelphia, Pa.
He teaches, does administrative work, and has charge
of all students in Rescue Mission work and open air
street services. He has two sons and a daughter.

1913—Hersert J. Tayvor of the firm of A. M. Pull-
en & Company, Certified Public Accountants, with of-
fices in State and City Bank Building, Richmond, Va.,
gets back to Lexington very seldom, considering his
proximity.

1913—Harvey B. AppeRSON is a member of the law
firm of Apperson, Rush and Gentry, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. Is also busy attending special and regular ses-
sions of the Senate of Virginia, to which he was elect-
ed last fall.

1913—Frep McWANE, active in Republican politics in
Virginia, could not attend Finals because he is a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of Lynchburg College,
which unfortunately met on Alumni Day.

1913—Rosert B. Apams, Jr., of Roanoke, Va., says
his bank survived all the difficulties of the past year,
but he was receiver for another bank which failed,
which involved much work.

1913—C. C. (Rep) Moors is living at 1952 Guilford
Road, Columbus, Ohio.

1912—A. G. Livery is Judge of the Twenty-seventh

Judicial Circuit Court of Virginia. He lives in Leba-
non, Virginia.

1912—H. E. Porrer is practicing law with offices in
the Commonwealth Trust Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

1912—Rev. THomas B. Rurr is a Presbyterian Min-
ister at Phoebus, Virginia.

1912—W. L. (Pin) Wessrer is in the automobile
business in Schenectady, N. Y.

1911—Rurus BowMAN is in the insurance business
in Salem, Virginia.

1911—Epwarp E. Brown is General Agent of the
Penn. Mutual Life Insurance Co., with offices in the
Hamilton National Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tenn.

 

1911—SaMmvugEL R. GAMMON, JR., is in the History De-
partment, Texas A. & M., at College Station, Texas.

1910—Dr. JAmEs W. Bruce is Assistant Clinical Pro-
fessor of Pediatrics in the University of Louisville
and practicing pediatrics in that city. He is a grandson
of Professor James J. White, formerly professor of
Greek at Washington and Lee, and a nephew of the
late Dr. Reid White, known and beloved by so many
alumni of the University. Dr. Bruce only attended
Washington and Lee for a short time, but is loyal to
his traditions.

1910—F. C. BEpINGER has practiced law in Boydton,
Virginia, since leaving college; is Commonwealth’s At-
torney for Mecklenberg county. He is married and has
two children, a daughter at Randolph-Macon Woman's
College in Lynchburg, and a son and namesake at
Hampden-Sidney, who will probably take his law
course at Washington and Lee after graduation.

1910—Jor R. BLACKBURN is representing the Equitable
Life Assurance Society at Morgantown, W. Va. He
has been married for eighteen years and has a daugh-
ter sixteen and a son ten.

1910—Rayrorp W. ALLEy, after leaving Washington
and Lee, took his LL.B. from Columbia Law School,
and since that time has been practicing his profession
in New York City. He is in close touch with the Uni-
versity, particularly in connection with local alumni
activities in and around New York.

1909—L,. J. BoxLry is a member of the W. W. Box-
ley & Company, Railroad Contractors, Roanoke, Va.

1909—Ractpu H. Baber is practicing law in Harrison-
burg, Virginia.

1909—Jamers H. Price, Lieutenant Governor of Vir-
ginia, has been practicing law in Richmond, Virginia,

[ 20 ]

ll i le

 

ae es Oe Wa ee ee |

——

for twenty years and “dabbling a little in politics on
the side.”

1909—R. R. Brown is Director of the Department of
Athletics at New Mexico Military Academy, Roswell,
New Mexico.

1909—Rev. Devatt L. GwatuMey, D.D., 465 Church
street, Wytheville, Virginia, is Rector of the Episcopal
Church at Wytheville, Virginia.

1909—Jor LyKEs is a member of the firm of Lykes
Brothers, Inc., 17 Battery Place, New York City.

1909—S. Gwynn Cok is in the Department of His-
tory at Southern College, Lakeland, Fla.

1908—Harry W. GAssMAN is teaching in the Walnut
Hills High school, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1908—Grover C. GABRIEL has been back to the cam-
pus only twice since leaving the University. He is the
minister in St. Paul’s Evangelical Church of Red Lion,
Pennsylvania.

1908—Dr. Grover A. BATTEN is practicing his pro-
fession in Honolulu, T. H. He recently made a visit to
the campus to bring his young son, now a freshman
here. He will return to Honolulu in the autumn.

1908—HuntTer J. PHLEGAR is a member of the firm
of Ellett & Phlegar, Attorneys-at-Law, practicing in
Christiansburg, Virginia.

1907—H. Crim Peck is treasurer of the town of Lex-
ington, Va.—one time mayor.

1907—A. R. Larrick, Presbyterian Minister of Plant
City, Florida, has a son who will be a freshman in 1935.

1907—C. F. BAcLeEy is president of the Union Nation-
al Bank of Fayetteville, Tenn.

1906—Kertty W. TRIMBLE is with the United States
Department of the Interior, Geological Survey, at Co-
lumbia, S. C.

1906—J. S. Lone is Superintendent of the Water De-
partment of the City of Tampa, Tampa, Florida.

1906—Joun E. Scorr is assistant engineer of the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, Louisville,
Kentucky.

1906—A. W. Rutan is a member of the firm of Rutan
& Mize, Attorneys-at-Law, First National Bank Bldg.,
Santa Ana, California.

1905—D. MrapE BERNARD is a teacher in Jacksonville,
Florida, and has a successful camp for boys at Bre-
vard, North Carolina—‘‘Camp Carolina.” He has three
boys and a girl.

I

ma LAYS me SUDO eS

1905—Ex1 M. MILLEN has many irons in the fire,
among other things, he is a lecturer on contemporary
literature. He has four daughters, two graduates of
Randolph-Macon Woman's College. He gets back to
the campus frequently.

1905—Dawn C. MILLER is with Reed and Miller, Sport-
ing Goods, 404 East Colorado Street, Pasadena, Calif.

1905—Davip A. BrApDHAM is a lawyer in Warren,
Arkansas.

1904—J. B. Akers is an engineer with the Southern
Railway, Washington, D. C. He has a son now in the
University.

1904—E. W. PornpExTER is practicing law in the
Shenandoah Life Bldg., Roanoke, Virginia. He has a
warm spot in his heart for Washington and Lee and
speaks for it on every occasion any word of commen-
dation that he can promotive of its interest.

1904—Artruur Tass is head of the Tabb Storage
Warehouse, Freight Transfer Line, Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He is president of the Louisville Alumni Asso-
ciation.

1904—Witu1am W. Bays is an attorney for the Fed-
eral Trade Commission. He lives at 3228 Hiatt Place,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

1903—SamvuEL McP. Grascow, D.D., is Pastor of the
Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga.

1903—H. S. (Goat) Ossurn received the Doctor of
Divinity degree from Washington and Lee in 1933.
He is Rector of the Episcopal Church at Gloucester,
Virginia, has two debutante daughters and two much
younger children. He has had fifteen years in the min-
istry in Tidewater Virginia, and has found it good.
He takes this opportunity to invite any of his old friends
to look him up should they visit Gloucester and let
him introduce them to such points of interest as Rose-
well, Toddsbury, Wericomico, ( Walter Reed’s_ birth-
place), Abingdon and Ware churches, Warner Hall,
and numerous others.

1902—Ricuarp Roscok PueEtps is Rector of St.
Mary’s Episcopal Church, London, Ohio.

1902—Rosert FRANKLIN Cooper is president of the
Mississippi Synodical College, Holly Springs, Miss.
He has a son who is now a senior at Washington
and Lee.

1902—Witiiam (BILL) ALLAN is practicing medicine
in Charlotte, North Carolina.

1902—W. Jerr Lauck, economist and former pro-
fessor in the School of Commerce at Washington and
Lee, has been appointed by President Roosevelt as a

[ 21 |

: ek: Ss a oS UD a ae

member of an impartial committee of three to investi-
gate the proposed work week cut from 50 to 36 hours
in the cotton garment industry.

1901—CLARENCE C. (Bossy) BurNs is a member of
the law firm of Wilson, Burns & Wilson, Burns Build-
ing, Lebanon, Virginia.

1901—Joun L. Corserr is practicing law in Bay City,
Texas.

1901—E,. DuLANEy Or’ is practicing law in Harrison-
burg, Virginia:

1900—GEorcGE PETRIE FisHBURNE is Mayor of Ta-
coma, Washington. ,

1899—W. E. Davis is President and General Mana-
ger of the Midland Mining Co., and lives in Lexington,
Kentucky. Mrs. Davis was Bruce Houston of Lexing-
ton. They have five children and the family make fre-
quent visits to the old home town.

1899—Hariow §. D1xon lives in Elizabethton, Tenn.

1899—J. Wanroy (JoHNNy) Garrow is a Cotton
Factor in the firm of Garrow, MacClain & Garrow,
Houston, Texas.

1899—Rerv. A. Stuart Gipson, Rector of ‘Trinity
Episcopal Church, Manassas, Virginia, has three
daughters all about grown. Mrs. Gibson is the organist
and choir leader of his church. )

1899—Dnr. G. B. Cariro is a physician with offices in
the Professional Building, Charleston, West Virginia.
As a student he was an accomplished violinist but has
given that up in his practice on “the harp with a thou-
sand strings.”

1899—H. B. CuErRMsIDE is Clerk of the Circuit Court
of Charlotte county, Virginia.

1899—Stewarr Ll. Cress is a realtor, with the firm
of Beaver, Burton & Company, Ltd., 5100 Wiltshire
Boulevard, Los Angeles, Calif.

1898—H. M. Houston of Austin, Texas, wrote a let-
ter full of news to his class-agent, Dave Barclay. Says
that ‘Pete’ Fishborne, ’00, is now Postmaster of ‘T'a-
coma, Washington. Says that he is still “minoring” in
the lingo of the ancients, sharing with his second-born
her struggles over Orgetorix, Duminorix, the Aeduan:
and Caesar’s sassy messages to the Helvetians.

 

1898—S. GarLtanpd HAMNER is practicing law in
Lynchburg and is a member of the firm of Edmunds
and Hamner, Peoples Bank Building.

1898—BorpDEN Burr is a member of the firm of Ben-
ners, Burr, McKamy & Forman, with offices in the
Brown-Marx Building, Birmingham, Ala.

I

ee A My ee a

1894—JupcrE Don P. HaAtsty is Judge of the Sixth
Virginia Circuit Court. In 1931 he published a book,
“The Evidence for Immortality.”

1894—Davip H. LEAKE is Assistant General Solicitor
for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway company, Rich-
mond, Virginia. After leaving Washington and Lee he
spent one year in “‘academ” at the University of Vir-
ginia ; studied law under instructors and after taking the
State Bar examination in 1899, began the practice of
law in Goochland county, Virginia. Shortly thereafter
was elected Commonwealth’s Attorney for Goochland
county and served four years in that capacity. Served
in the House of Delegates of Virginia for four years
as a member from Goochland and Fluvanna counties
and, for a short time, was Judge of the County Court
of Goochland. He was Chief of Staff to Governor
Westmoreland Davis during his term of office. Ever
since coming to the bar he has represented the Ches-
apeake and Ohio Railway Company in a legal capacity
—first as Local Counsel in Goochland; subsequently
as Division Assistant General Solicitor—giving his en-
tire time to the business of the railway. He is mar-
ried and has two grown daughters. Associated with Mr.
Leake in the legal department of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Railway company are alumnus Herbert Fitzpat-

rick, Vice-president and General Manager, and Hon.
H. T. Wickham, Advisory Counsel.

1892—Hon. Ausrey E. Strrope is Judge of the Lynch-
burg Corporation Court.

1892—Cuartes Howarp FREEMAN is living at 57
Hazelton Drive, White Plains, New York.

1892—Wittiam ANbrEW CoLtins retired from bus-
iness in Louisiana some years ago and settled in Sou-
thern California. His address is 1842 North Cherokee
Avenue, Los Angeles, California.

1892—J. M. Woops, after serving a dozen years as
Judge of the Circuit Court in the eastern panhandle
section of West Virginia, resigned from the bench and
became a member of the law firm of Price, Smith and
Spilman, Kanawha Banking and Trust Co. Bldg.,
Charleston, W. Va.

1892—Joun J. Davis is a member of the law firm of
Blakey, Davis and Lewis, Kentucky Home Life Build-
ing, Louisville, Kentucky. He will be class-agent for
1892 next year, taking the place of Dr. William Rey-
nolds Vance, who finds it necessary to give up this
work on account of the pressure of other matters.

1874—Bisuop JAMES R. WINCHESTER suffered a se-
vere fracture of the hip early in the summer in Chi-
cago, but is now greatly improved. Bishop Winchester
is a great friend of the Alumni Office and we are al-

[ 22 ]

 

ee 8 ah DN

ways glad to hear from him here. As everyone knows,
he is one of the last surviving “Guard of Honor,” se-
lected from the student body to watch by the bier of
General Robert E. Lee as it lay in state in the chapel.

1868—Mr. Hucu L. Haynes died December 14, 1933,
at the age of 86. His son, Hugh L. Haynes, writes

I

Mw A OG Ga. 2 2 Pe

from Midway, ‘Texas: “My father often spoke of the
meeting between General Lee and Pleasant Goree—it
was after the war and the first time they had met since
the surrender. Goree was a courier for General Long-
street—then General Hood. My father said when they
met they embraced and wept, and tears came to the
eyes of all those present.”

 

Marriages

R. B. C. De La Marer, °33, was married Septem-
ber 22, 1934, to Edith Gentry Harris. They will make
their home in Houston, Texas.

H. Lercn WictiiAms, B.S., '32, was married to
Miss Grace Baxter Mayo at St. Mary’s Church, Sep-
tember 12, 1934. They will make their home at Fort
Defiance, Va., where Leigh is head athletic coach at
the Augusta Military Academy.

Sruart GARNER Epmonps, °32, was married to
Miss Helen Francis Ritter, August 18, 1934.

Oscar Henry Geismer, '30, of Birmingham, Ala-
bama, was married August 17, 1934, to Miss Mary Eliz-
abeth Black.

Joun Wittiam McCcure, Jr., B.S. Com., '32,
was married to Miss Charlotte Virginia Bowie on Sep-
tember 1, 1934. They will live in Houston, Texas.

EUGENE Jounson, B.S., M.S., was married Sep-
tember 28, 1934, to Miss Elizabeth Anne Dally, of
Waynesboro, Virginia.

WILLIAM WriGHT VENABLE, LL.B., ’31, was mar-

ried to Miss Margaret Lathrop Moore, Saturday, June
16, 1934.

Joun HamMAN, Jr., was married July 29, 1934, to
Miss Laura Lenoir Bowen, of Houston, Texas.

Pack TREADWAY, °30, was married to Margaret B.
Lambeth, of Bedford, Va., August 18, 1934.

Joun Epwarp Lewis, B.S., ’29, was married June
29, 1934, to Miss Elizabeth Lucille McDowell.

James M. Burorp, '29, of Jackson, Miss., was
married on May 9, 1934, to Miss Vera Aldridge in
New Orleans, La. They will make their home at 742
Carlisle street, Jackson, Miss.

JoHN DANDRIDGE STANDARD, ‘26, was married to
Mary Esther Bagby, August 1, 1934.

EARLE VERNON BippLe, ’26, was married to Miss
Helen Francis Grant, on Saturday, the fifth of May,
1934. Their address is 3527 77th street, Jackson
Heights, L. I., N. Y.

On Saturpay, June 16, 1934, Miss Julia Lewis
Roseberry was married to James Kay Thomas, LL.B.,
‘26, at Point Pleasant, West Virginia. They will make
their home in Charleston.

Henry McQueen Corser, '23, was married Sep-
tember 26, 1934, to Miss Martha Litchford, of Raleigh,
North Carolina. They will make their home in Toledo,

Ohio.

Epwarp O. HeEnperson, B.S., '23, was married
July 21, 1934, to Miss Muriel Wilkins.

RicHArRD Davip MaBeEn, Jr., B.S. ’22, LL.B. ’27,
was married to Miss Gertrude Wright, on Wednesday,
October 3, 1934, at Denton, Maryland. They will live
in Blackstone, Virginia.

Jupce D. LAWRENCE GRONER, 94, of the District
of Columbia Court of Appeals, was married to Mrs.
Edwards Shouse, former wife of Jouett Shouse, on

July 28, 1934.

[ 23]

eS oe

I

es Oe Geo Sa a

In Memoriam

1870
WALTER Howarp LEyBuRN, ’70, died September
9, 1934, at Ballston, Virginia.

DANIEL R. BissELi, ’70, died in St. Louis, May
18, 1934. He was &4 years old and died in the house
in which he was born, built by his grandfather, General
Daniel Bissell, in 1812.

JupcE JoHN PrEyTon Hopson, ’70, died in Frank-
fort, Kentucky, on June 4, 1934. He was for twenty-
six years a member of Kentucky's highest court and
was 83 years old.

Judge Hobson was born in Virginia and graduated
from Washington and Lee under the presidency of
General Lee.

Judge Hobson is survived by Mrs. Hobson and
their five sons, Charles N. Hobson, ’06, Robert P. Hob-
son, 14, Willis Hobson, Joseph Hobson, ’20, and John
Peyton Hobson, Jr., ‘08, four of whom are alumni of
Washington and Lee.

1879

GrorcE A. Sykes, ’79, died in Marietta, Georgia,
Sunday, September 9, 1934, and was buried at Aber-
deen, Mississippi. He was seventy-five years old. Mr.
Sykes is well known to all alumni of Washington and
Lee as the man who is generally credited with having
pitched the first curved ball in Southern collegiate base-
bail. In the spring of ’77, Sykes, pitcher for the Wash-
ington and Lee team, “invented” the curve ball, but
did not use it until the next year when his team played
Virginia, leading the Lexington club to an easy twelve
to nothing victory. A controversy was created last spring
when Sykes’ use of the curve was brought to public
attention. Sports authorities finally agreed that his
curve ball probably was the first in Southern college
baseball and one of the first on record.

Only three members of the Washington and Lee
nine of 1878 are living now. They are William M.
McElwee of Lexington, catcher for Sykes; Dr. Edward
Randall of Galveston, Texas; and W. B. McCluer of
Chicago.

A portrait of Mr. Sykes in his baseball uniform
now hangs in the Alumni Building at Washington and
Lee, and a similar portrait of Mr. McElwee has been

completed and will be hung by its side at an early date.
Both portraits were done by Dudley Ferguson Hewitt,
a niece of Mr. Sykes.

1882
Rev. GeorcE L. Bitzer, of Holly Springs, Miss.,
died at the Baptist Hospital in Memphis, Tenn., after
an operation. Dr. Bitzer was born near Winchester,
Va., December 21, 1860. He was educated at Wash-
ington and Lee University and Union Theological Sem-
inary, Richmond, Va., and Austin Seminary, Austin,
‘Texas.
1900
Henry L. Martin, Jr., B.A., 1900, farmer, bank-
er, died of a heart attack at his home in Versailles,
Kentucky, on September 1, 1934.

Cot. WILLIAM DANDRIDGE ANDERSON, '96-’97 and
99-’00, died in Baltimore, Maryland, July, 1934.
He graduated from the U. S. Military Academy, 1904,
second in his class. Col. Anderson was the son of Gen-
eral William A. Anderson, deceased, former Rector of
the University. At the time of his death Col. Ander-
son was Engineer, 3rd Corps Area, stationed at Balti-
more, Maryland. He held many important posts in the
Engineering Department of the United States Army.

1905
EDMUND KEARNEY VERTNER, '05, died in Jack-
sonville, Florida, July 6, 1934.

1906
CHARLES N. CAMPBELL, LL.B., 06, on May 19,
died at his home in Martinsburg, W. Va.

1927
Horace N. BE tt, A.B. ’27, was killed in an auto-
mobile accident September 28, 1934.

1929
JOHN SHARSHALL Grasty, ITI, ’29, young attorney
and magistrate of Staunton, Va., died unexpectedly
June 17, 1934, at King’s Daughters Hospital, Staun-
ton. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
C. Grasty and his wife who was Miss Virginia Beck-
ham, two brothers and two sisters.

[ 24 ]

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee
alumni of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession
to transact business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who
by reason of specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the some pro-ession

 

 

are invited to place their cards in the directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson

Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal

Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Colambia and
Federal Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

William A. Hyman

Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

E. C. Caffrey,
09

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

Carlton D. Dethlefsen

Attorney-at-Law

Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.,
14 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Wocdruff, 1916
Wm A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.,
1910

Tucker and Mason
Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.

Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell,
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law
Douglas, Obear and Douglas

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

Applications from Washington

 

 

 

 

 

1934, Liccett & Myers Tosacco Co.

  
 
  
 
 
    
 

To me a Ciga-
rette is the best smoke.
It’s a short smoke...
and then again it’s
milder.

‘*T notice that you
smoke Chesterfields
also. I like them very
much.”

ec
I HAD A BERTH in the ninth
sleeper. It was a heavy train and a cold
night — snowing —and I thought about
the man with his hand on the throttle.
I admire and respect those men.”

