aA

 

umni Mad

Washington and [ee Universi

=

Vol. XI—No. |
OCTOBER, 1935
°2.50 a year

dZihe

Y

 

 

aw

“ji

MY 39 ‘

<Re

 

 

 

 

HOMECOMING DAY
Saturday, November 9

%
VIRGINIA

VS

WASHINGTON AND LEE

AUG 2 0 1936

vA

Vou wouldn’t miss a chance to see
a Homecoming Day game with the
traditional football rivals of the

Generals, would you? Of course not!

Your friends will be here! Will you?

 

 

 

 

 

 

ian Association
Appalachian ich. 318 Park Street, Bristol,

Tenn.-Va.

ansas Association .
ag arto McKinney, 1100 Prospect Ave., Little

Rock.

a, Georgia ic
Aen s. ls Healey Building.

Itimore, Maryland
et W. Milbourne, 8204 St. Paul St.

irmingham, Alabama 5 Si
= L. Hanna, First National Bank Building.
harleston, West Virginia
¥ ©. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chattanooga, Tennessee
John D. Standard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.

hicago
¥ Joho Culley, 422 Hamilton St., Evanston, Ill.

Cincinnati
Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
Cc. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas er
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. W. Gilliam, Lynchburg Nat’] Bank Bldg.

Louisville, Kentucky
Edward Rietze, 2063 E. Parkway.

Memphis, Tennessee
John K. Speed, 1159 Linden Avenue.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana

Norton Wisdom, 1515 Marengo St.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Roanoke, Virginia
_ Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Richmond, Virginia
Stuart Sanders, Sanders Bros. Paint Co.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert. Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California
Bryan Bell, Assoc. Press, 1243 Trenton St.
St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Hunti ;
Bank Building, Huntington Weve Naspee

Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. XI OCTOBER, 1935 No. 1

 

Ea OR 5. OE Harry K. (“Cy”) Younc, 1917
Managing Editor. RicHarp PowE Lt Carter, 1929

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President -<. c35..068-00 ....DR. J. W. Ctaupy, 1909
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
Secretary .......... Harry K. (“Cy’’) Youne, 1917
TL€QSUPEP......cccecccceceeeee. M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powe tt, 1929

CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914

HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930
Kr Wituiams, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for October 1935

 

PAGE
President’s Pages.:..2iccctestsccstsceeree-vsscsyssvecds-ougeasentibion-opacastuapanes 3
Cheerful Prospects for the 187th Session................:.: +
The University Enrolls 64 Sons of Adutnei. 625 fone 5
The “VC”—Now Just a Memory.............c:ceceeee tage cee rer ee 7
The Generals March Forth Agaimn..............0.2..0:ccleeeeeeees 9
The; HittlecGeneras Gf. 1935 ino a  aaee 13
“Old George” Atop Washington College...........0..0. ce 15
Local Alumni Association Notes..............:cccccesetecstesneteseeeees 17

Rade Re cs a ree SS AS aces ataees cat nieanh aitege hee 20

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The President’s Page

FEEL THAT I am greeting the alumni upon the
beginning of an uncommon year. Perhaps I may
best use this space by becoming a kind of ad-

ministrative reporter.
Se ae

The most conspicuous fact about the new session
is the number of new students now enrolled. For prac-
tical purposes the institution was filled by the middle of
August—although due allowance was always made for
the exceptional case—and it was our .expectation that
the enrollment would be at almost exactly 900. But there
were amazingly few cancellations on the part of new
students, and there was an unexpected number of old
students who returned, and the registration today stands
943, nearly 100 more than last year at this same time.

The largest proportionate gain in registration is re-
ported from the state of Kentucky; two years ago we
had 35 Kentucky boys and this year we have 61. Ar-
kansas made a notable gain, almost doubling the num-
ber of boys who were here last year; and over a two-
year period Texas has more than doubled its quota. Vir-
ginia sends us ten more boys than last year, Michigan
eight more, Missouri five more. New York and New
Jersey virtually stand still, while Pennsylvania has lost
ground.

But the most impressive factor in this year’s enroll-
ment has nothing to do with quantity. It is encouraging
to report that the processes of selection were applied
this year more intelligently than we have been able to do
at any time since I have been connected with the Uni-
versity, and that we not only have more boys, but if
there is anything in previous records we have better
prepared boys as a whole.

*k * *

Of course, the quality of work actually performed
by our students, the measure of the students’ apprecia-
tion for the opportunity presented, had shown gratifying
improvement even before this increase of enrollment.
Dean Tucker reports that last year the general level of
academic performances was noticeably raised. There
were more boys who made A’s and B’s, there were more
boys who made the general level of C, there were more
boys on the Dean’s List, and there were fewer boys un-
der the automatic rule than at any time within recent
years. | am not prepared to give an analysis of the

causes. It may be that the depression
has sobered young men, and it may
also be that the “rah-rah”’ mood is no
longer the chief characteristic of col-
lege men.

1: —

But certainly one of the elements
contributing to the heightened achieve-
ment of our students is the effective-
ness of our advisory system. The new
students actually come under two types
of friendly counsel, one from the Fac-
ulty Advisers who at great sacrifice and inconvenience
assume the task of guiding a small number of freshmen,
and the other from the upper-classmen who reside in
the dormitories as councilors. The system does not
stop with the freshman year. We now arrange for the
faculty adviser to give some kind of general direction
to his boys in their sophomore year, and the head of a
department in which a student majors becomes auto-
matically his adviser for the junior and senior years.
The system is not perfect and probably will always be
subject to the conditions of human nature; but it is in
final analysis the great opportunity of the small college
and we are realizing a measure of success here that is
inspiring.

 

x *

As I jot down these notes on this beautiful day of
Indian Summer, I find myself deeply aware of the
change in the central sky line of this ancient institution.
Tucker Hall, the new law building, has reached its
height, with the brick work practically complete and the
columns themselves standing out in a kind of bare
strength waiting for the white coating that is to be given
them. It will be in itself an excellent building, highly
satisfactory in terms of the durability of construction
and its efficiency for teaching purposes. But it will also
add greatly to the grandeur of the perspective.

ee

The Board of Trustees had endorsed in principle a
recommendation that three other central academic build-
ings—the Washington College group, the Carnegie Li-
brary, and Newcomb Hall—are to be fireproofed and
modernized in terms of their educational efficiency with-
out any change in the external architecture. The plans

(Continued on page 8)

peo

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Cheerful Prospects for the 187th Session

ASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY appears head-

ed for the most auspicious year in the 186 years

of its existence. Enrollment is larger than ever
before; scholastic work is on a higher plane than ever
before as judged by results last year; the new Tucker
Hall is rapidly nearing completion to round out the
architectural beauty of the campus; plans are under way
for modernizing the interior of
Washington College, Newcomb
Hall and the Library; and the
university's athletic teams seem
well able to make their way.

Altogether, things are look-
ing extremely bright on the cam-
pus. Enrollment of students the
first semester this year is 943,
just six more than the former
all-time record set the full year
of 1930-1931.

University officials believe en-
rollment for the entire year this
session will go well beyond 950
and so establish a mark that will
be difficult to break.

More applications for admis-
sion to the university were re-
ceived this year than any other
year in the university’s history.
The process of selection became
at once difficult, but was handled
deftly by the committee on ad-
missions.

The increased enrollment
brought about the appointment
of two new members of the fac-
ulty, both of them instructors. They are L. G. Tennis
of Phoebus, Va., who is teaching French and Spanish;
and F. E. Lund of Lexington, Va., an instructor in the
department of political science.

Mr. Tennis received his A. B. from the College of
William and Mary and his M.A. from the University
of Virginia. Mr. Lund was awarded his M. A. at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1934.

The new Tucker Hall, replacing the old building de-
stroyed by fire in December of last year, probably will
be ready for occupancy by the opening of the next se-
mester in February. Workmen have almost finished the

Dean Tucker
“Has the rah-rah age gone?”

 

exterior, and are completing construction of the roof in
an effort to start on the slower and more detailed in-
terior work when bad weather sets in.

Law students meanwhile are continuing to attend
classes in Washington College and in the Chemistry
building, with their library housed in the old Y. M. C. A.
room in Reid Hall. The law library has been steadily
increased, and will be one of the
most complete in this section of
the country by the time it is
ready to be moved to the new
building, it is believed. The law
students were provided imme-
diately following the fire with a
complete working library so that
their study has been interrupted
only slightly.

The new Tucker Hall will
make Washington and Lee’s
campus, generally regarded as
the most beautiful in America,
just about architecturally per-
fect,.it has been frequently said.

The board of trustees meet-
ing at the dedication of Strat-
ford Hall, birthplace of Lee, ap-
proved tentative plans for re-
modeling the interior of Wash-
ington College, fireproofing it
along with similar work on New-
comb Hall and the Carnegie Li-
brary. (Dr. Gaines presents a
discussion of the plans in his
‘‘President’s Page” in this issue
of the magazine. )

In a survey of scholastic endeavor at Washington
and Lee last year, Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of the
university, found that “improvement was evident on
practically every count.”

The percentage of A and B grades was higher; the
percentage of EK and F grades was lower; the general
average of the student body was higher; the number of
men who made the dean’s list was larger; and the num-
ber who fell under the automatic rule was lower.

Commenting on the scholastic improvement shown
so clearly by figures compiled at his office, Dr. Tucker

(Continued on page 8)

rors

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

XXX K XK
xX

“a Mk ad
is ll

A
LX,
~ AN 2
Pe La

ans TE AY

eit 4

\

 

The University Enrolls 64 Sons of Alumni

ASHINGTON AND LEE has established some kind

of unique record this year with the enrollment of

sixty-four sons of men who attended the Uni-
versity. Approximately ten per cent of the entering class
are in the “sons of alumni” category, and administration
officials believe this is the largest percentage of such stu-
dents enrolled at any one fall in the history of the Un-
iversity.

“One of the most sincere compliments an institution
can receive is to have the approbation of the parents of
our boys,” Dr. Francis P. Gaines, Washington and Lee’s
president, said in commenting on the heavy enrollment
of alumni sons.

Thirty-one of the alumni sons are members of the
entering class; the others are old students who have
spent one or more years at the school their fathers be-
fore them selected.

These sons of alumni have converged upon the cam-
pus from widely separated sections of the world. Two
have come all the way from Hawaii—Grover Batten,

Jr., and Harry L. Handley, Jr—to capture the “long
distance” record in the unique group.

Represented are the states of Virginia, Florida, West
Virginia, Massachusetts, Maryland, Kentucky, Texas,
Ohio, Mississippi, New Jersey, Arkansas, Missouri, Al-
abama, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and
Hawaii, and the District of Columbia.

“It is gratifying,’ Dr. Gaines said, “to find these
sons of men who attended the institution enrolled as
members of our student body. Of course, many more
men are the nephews or the brothers or the close rela-
tives of former Washington and Lee students. It is a
double compliment to feel that when parents themselves
have attended this institution they wish their boys to
enjoy the same privilege.

“Every member of the faculty hopes that no single
alumnus will be disappointed in the record of his boy
at his own alma mater.”’

Pictured with this story are two photographs of
these sons of alumni, the one above showing practically

[5 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

all of the group, and the one below showing most of
those in the entering class.

Those in the larger group are:

James B. Akers, Jr., son of James B. Akers ’04,
Washington, D. C.; John Alexander, Jr., and Sam Alex-
ander, John R. H. Alexander ’07, Leesburg, Va.; Bob
Arnold, Jr., Robert W. Arnold ’08, Waverly, Va.; Fred
Bartenstein, Jr., Fred Bartenstein ’08, The Plains, Va.;
Ernest Beale, Jr., and Vaughan Beale, Ernest L. Beale
08, Franklin, Va.; Turnbull Bernard, D. M. Bernard
05, Jacksonville, Fla.; J. C. Bierer, J. M. Bierer ’08,
Waban, Mass.; McLain Bowman, Rufus Bowman ’11,
Salem, Va.; George Boyd, Jr., George Boyd ’11, Hag-
erstown, Md.; Jerry Burke, Jr., Jerry Burke ’15, Appo-
mattox, Va.; Albert Burks, *Martin Burks ’05, Lexing-
ton, Va.; John Campbell, Jr., John Campbell ’09, Lex-
ington, Va.; Deverton Carpenter, J. C. Carpenter ’08,
Clifton Forge, Va.; Thornton Cleek, G. W. Cleek ’12,
Warm Springs, Va.; Herbert Clendening, Howard N.
Clendening ’08, MacBeth, W. Va.; John Cover, Russell
Cover ’08, Staunton, Va.

John J. Davis, Jr., John J. Davis 92, Louisville, Ky. ;
Kester Denman, Jr., Kester W. Denman ’09, Lufkin,
Texas; Bill Derr, H. A. Derr ’10, Marietta, Ohio: Joe
Drake, Jr., J. T. Drake ’89, Port Gibson, Miss.; Ma-
gruder Drake, H. W. M. Drake ’97, Port Gibson, Miss. ;
Tom Durrance, F. M. Durrance ’09, Washington, D. C.;

Bill Dwiggins, Charles I. Dwiggins ’10, Lakeland, Fla. ;
Francis W. Foreman, E. W. Foreman ’13, Elizabeth,
N. J.; Pendleton Gaines, Jr., **Dr. F. P. Gaines, Lex-
ington, Va.; Powell Glass, Jr., Powell Glass ’07, Lynch-
burg, Va.; Harry L. Handley, Jr., H. A. Handley ’06,
Waiakoa Naui, T. H.; Cecil Hardy, Jr., Waller C.
Hardy ’04, Charleston, W. Va.; Bernie Harper, Jr.,
S. Bernie Harper ’13, Fort Smith, Ark.; Dexter Hobbie,
III, J. D. Hobbie, Jr. ’05, Roanoke, Va.; Bob Holland,
Jr., R. E. Holland ’14, Lexington, Va.; R. R. Hutton,
R. L. Hutton 08, Kansas City, Mo.; Bob Ingram, Jr.,
R. P. Ingram 712, Baltimore, Md.; John Johnston, J. G.
Johnston ’11, Murat, Va.

Dick Larrick, Jr., Dr. A. R. Larrick ’07, Plant City,
Fla.; James McClure, Jr., James A. McClure 99, Tampa,
Fla. ; Fred McWane, Jr., Fred McWane ’13, Lynchburg,
Va.; Marvin Moore, Dr. Chalmers H. Moore ’09, Bir-
mingham, Ala.; Bob Morrison, J. L. Morrison ’99, Haz-
ard, Ky.; Milton Morrison, K. lL. Morrison ’05, Lex-
ington, Va.; Paul Morrison, J. L. Morrison ’99, Haz-
ard, Ky.; Claude O’Quin, Jr., John C. O’Quin 713,
Alexandria, La.; Walter Page, Vivian Page 16, Nor-
folk, Va.; David R. Phelps, R. R. Phelps ’02, London,
Ohio; Heartsill Ragon, Jr., Heartsill Ragon ’08, Fort
Smith, Ark.; Tom Ripy, Ernest W. Ripy ’98, Law-
renceburg, Ky.; Edgar Shannon, Jr., **Dr. E. F. Shan-

(Continued on page 8)

 

[ 6 ]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The “VCNow Just a Memory

ae VIGILANCE COMMITTEE, terror of freshmen
ey and delight of some old men, has lived its life at
Washington and Lee.

It died this fall, with the introduction of a Fresh-
man Assimilation Committee, that will deal with recal-
citrant new men and undertake to explain campus tra-
ditions in a friendly way instead of with the whack

of a paddle.

The plan really was put into effect last spring with
the election of Amos Bolen of Ash-
land, Ky., as president of the student
body. Members of the student body
executive committee explained the
idea at the time, and it met with the
enthusiastic endorsement of Presi-
dent Gaines and other members of
the University administration.

Under the assimilation plan, no
physical punishment will be inflicted
on freshmen for any reason what-
ever. The new men, however, are re-
quired to wear the familiar little blue
caps with white buttons on them;
are required to speak to each other
and to all students and faculty mem-
bers in keeping with tradition; and
are asked to wear conventional cloth-
ing, which includes a ban on sweaters
and other wearing apparel not becom-
ing a Washington and Lee gentleman.

The plan was explained in detail
to the freshmen at a series of meetings during orienta-
tion week, and at freshman camp. Fraternity men un-
dertake to give their pledges the details, and in the dor-
mitories the councilors explain the new regulations to
non-fraternity men.

~

From early reports to Bolen, the scheme is meeting
with full success, and old men have greeted heartily the
passage of another phase of the rah-rah era of Amer-
ican college life. Their co-operation, the student body
president has pointed out repeatedly, is necessary for the
completion of the idea. All of the usual campus tradi-
tions, including the custom of keeping off the grass, are
being observed by the new men with an almost sur-
prising degree of co-operation.

 

Amos Bolen
“The VC is no more”

Bolen appointed Angus Powell of Richmond, Va.,
as chairman of the new committee, and Powell in turn
named two members of the executive committee and
the two head dormitory councilors to work with him.
They are: Kenneth L. Lane of West Newton; Mass-
achusetts, and J. B. Douglass of Harlan, Kentucky, from
the executive committee; and Bill Schuhle of Plaque-
mine, Louisiana, and R. L. Brickhouse of Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, head dormitory councilors.

There won’t be any paddling and
there won’t be any little black box
out in front of Washington College
for reporting stubborn men to the
V.C., but the Assimilation Commit-
tee has broad powers.

When a man refuses to observe
the time-honored traditions of the
University, he is responsible directly
to the committee, which may coun-
sel with him and outline the necessity
for carrying on the spirit of things
on the Washington and Lee campus.
Old men believe such counsel will
correct practically all of the cases
brought before them, but if a fresh-
man refuses to co-operate, and be-
comes a “bad case’ the committee
has the power to send him home.

The Vigilance Committee was in
effect for many years at Washington
and Lee—no one seems to know just
how long, but available records show that some form
of the V. C. or something similar to it apparently exist-
ed long before the turn of the century. Certainly there
was punishment of freshmen in one way or another.

Dick Smith, genial graduate manager of athletics at
the University, was a member of one V. C. back in 1910.
He believes that was the first actual organization of a
formal Vigilance Committee. Did they mete out much
punishment? he was asked the other day.

The answer was yes, and the answer has been yes for
years, so the older alumni in Lexington say.

At all events the V. C. is no more. It’s as dead as the
proverbial Dodo, and from all sentiment expressed on
the campus, it won’t come back. It’s just all washed up.

Par

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The 187th Session

(Continued from page 4)

said: “The effect of the depression combined with the
gradual passing, we hope, of the rah-rah age in college
life has done much to bring about better scholastic aver-
ages. There is an increasing realization on the part of
the student of the importance of his college work and
the part it will play in determining his future success.”

Other factors to which Dr. Tucker attributed the
rise in grades included the development by the faculty
of more effective plans for educational guidance ; adop-
tion by the faculty of a program of class attendance
_and student privileges that correspond with the grades
‘made. and improved preparation on the part of the stu-
dents because of better preparatory work.

“The present day student is not so studious, perhaps,
as his predecessor of several decades ago,” Dr. Tucker
said, “but he is in many ways keener, more resourceful
and scholastically better equipped.”

 

Sixty-four Sons of Alumni
(Continued from page 6)

non, Lexington, Va.; Murray Smith, Jr., Murray Smith
‘05, Richmond, Ky.; Arch Sproul, W. W. Sproul ’82,
Middlebrook, Va.; Erskine Sproul, *Hugh Sproul ’92,
Staunton, Va.; William B. Steele, Lawrence A. Steele
"13, Brownsville, Pa.; Walter Steves, Albert Steeves,
Jr. 06, San Antonio, Texas; S. F. Tompkins, Dr. E. P.
Tompkins ’88, Lexington, Va.; S. Heth Tyler, Jr., S.
Heth Tyler ’96, Norfolk, Va.; Ben Wilson and Phil
Wilson, Larry Wilson °10, Greensboro, N. C.

Additional men who do not appear in the picture
of the large group, but who do appear in that of the
smaller, are:

Bill Delaplaine, son of W. T. Delaplaine ’09, Fred-
erick, Md.; Ruffin Horne, Jr., Ruffin Horne ’97, Fay-
etteville, N. C.; John Lebus, L. M. Lebus* °19, Lexing-
ton, Ky.; and Bruce Seddon, Jr., Bruce Seddon ’14, St.
Louis, Mo.

Sons of alumni who do not appear in either picture
are: Southgate Hoyt and Bob Hoyt, sons of Dr. W. D.
Hoyt**; Grover Batten, Jr., Dr. Grover Batten ‘O08,
Honolulu, H. I.; and Graham Sale, Jr., Graham Sale
"13, Welch, West Va.

In the smaller picture, the sons of alumni in the

entering class this year, the following men do not ap--

pear: Claude O’Quin, Dick Larrick, McLain Bowman,

and William B. Steele. The others in this group are:
Back row: John Johnston, Harry L. Handley, Jr.,

Walter Steves, Bob Ingram, Jr., Ruffin Horne, Jr.
Next row: Thornton Cleek, Bernie Harper, Jr.,

Heartsill Ragon, Jr., Bill Delaplaine III, John Lebus,
John Alexander.

Next row: Bruce Seddon, Jr., Pendleton Gaines, Jr.,
Edgar Shannon, Jr., Murray Smith, Jr., Francis W.
Foreman.

Next row: Marvin Moore, Turnbull Bernard, Fred

McWane, Jr., Walter Page, Stockton Tyler, Jr.

Bottom row: David R. Phelps, John Campbell, Jr.,
Bill Derr, Fred Bartenstein, Jr., W. C. Hardy, Jr., Ben
Wilson.

One asterisk denotes deceased alumni; two asterisks
denote honorary alumni.

 

The President's Page

(Continued from page 3)

and specifications, together with the estimates of cost,
are to be studied by the Executive Committee of the
Board and are to be reported back to the full meeting
on January 19. It seems more than probable that the
recommendation will be finally carried out and that
within a year or two our historic buildings will be made
indestructible and will be made entirely adequate for
serving their parts of the needs of the University, not
only for our day but for many generations yet to come.
I am sure that all alumni agree with me in a conviction
that this is a heartening decision and that the prospects
béfore us are bright.

FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES,
President.

 

Dr. Blain Gets Promotion

Dr. Hucu Mercer BLain, who received his A. B.
from Washington and Lee in 1894, has been appointed
head of the Loyola university department of English.

Rev. J. W. Hynes, president of Loyola, in announc-
ing the appointment, said ‘‘we feel that Dr. Blain will
give the English department the prestige it should have.”

According to Father Hynes, Dr. Blain inaugurated
the teaching of journalism in the three largest institutions
of Louisiana, Louisiana State University, Tulane and
Loyola, and is considered a pioneer in this work in the
South. He received his master’s degree from Washing-
ton and Lee.

He was awarded membership in Phi Beta Kappa,
national honor fraternity, by the Washington and Lee
university chapter ‘for distinguished success in life
work.” Dr. Blain was professor of English and jour-
nalism at Louisiana State for thirteen years, professor of
journalism at Tulane for two years, and has been at
Loyola for three years.

PS:.3

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Generals March Forth Again

By RicHarp PowELL CARTER

ASHINGTON AND L&E, defending champions in
the Southern conference, saw the crown of grid-
iron glory knocked just a little bit cockeyed by
powerful Duke eleven in the Generals’ first major

the
game of the season.

With twelve letter
men, including the last
of the Mattox broth-

ers, lost from the
team, the Generals in-
yaded Richmond on

October 5 to do battle
with the Blue Devils
after handing Wof-
ford an 18-0 defeat
in the opener here.

But a couple of
bad breaks and a
steam-roller Duke
team aided by an enor-
mous squad took the
Generals’ measure.
The final score was
26-0, and it might
have been larger if
Coach Tex ‘Tilson’s
lads had not given
such a fine account of
themselves in the face
of penalties and a de-
cidedly phenomenal
passing attack.

Duke was a little
bit “on” that day,
Washington and Lee
was a little bit “off.”
And that’s
the story.

most of

However, six
games, all of them
with “major” institu-
tions, remain on the
schedule as this is
written. There’s Cen-
tre at Louisville on
October 19 as the first,

 

  

(( CCA

icin)
IS A STAR WRESTLER

 

     
     

 

 

[ 9 ]

   

Mes
OE NBNKS

-TACKLE-
e\ \ WASHINGTON
» & \AND AEE
& “LONIVERSITY

— |

 

HE WEIGHS R35 POUNDS;
19 FAST ONHIS FEET
AND WAS ONE OF
THE MAINSTAYS IN

THE GENERALS BIG

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

LINE LAST FALL
o
| Wwe \iA
THIS *

“BETTER J

 

HAS

ee
BEEN SHIFTED THIS YEAR.
FROM GUARD TO TACKLE

following an idle Saturday after the Blue Devil engage-
ment, an engagement that saw Wallace Wade's eleven
display all the superlative weapons of modern football.
The score in the Duke game, sports writers have gen-

erally agreed,
nothing to the
credit of Tilson’s Gen-
erals. They say few
if any teams could
have licked the Blue
Devils that day—and
that, for your infor-
mation, is NOT col-
lege publicity _ bally-
hoo. It’s fact.

was
dis-

Heading the list
of veterans back in
uniform on Wilson
field this year is Cap-
tain Jack Bailey of
Maysville, Ky., all-
state fullback last year
by the largest vote
cast in the Associated
Press poll. He weighs
201 pounds this year,
and he played a good
game against the De-
vils.

Along with Cap-
tain Bailey are two
other Kentuckians,
letter men, who con-
stitute main cogs in
the gridiron machine.
They are Joe Arnold,
flashy quarterback of
Danville, Ky., and Bill
Ellis, one of the great-
est kickers ever to don
a Washington and Lee

uniform, from Ash-
land, Ky.
Other letter men

back this year are:
Carl Anderson, guard,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of Oak Hill, West Va.; Duane Berry, guard, of Vin-
ton, Va.; Hugo Bonino, tackle and guard, of Hawthorne,
N. J.; George Lowry, halfback, of Clinton, Okla.; Pres-
ton Moore, halfback, of Lexington, Va.; Wilton Sam-
ple, halfback, of Shreveport, La.; Ed Seitz, center, of
Cass, West Va.; and Charlie Brasher, end, of Ruther-
ford, N. J.

Overlooking graduation losses for the moment, the
most severe setback suffered by the Generals of 1935
was the loss of giant Tubby Owings, of Norfolk, Va.,
because of illness. Owings, a sophomore all-state tackle
last fall, was one of the outstanding members of the
team in 1934. He weighs 257 pounds, and is fast on
his feet.

Illness, however, has kept him out of uniform and
at home most of the fall. Coaches hope he will be able
to play next year.

One of the most stalwart men in the Generals’ heavy
line this year is the veteran Hugo Bonino, 240 pounds
of football energy. Bonino,
all-state guard last season,
has been shifted to tackle
this year in an effort to make

Left to right: Spes-
sard, tackle; Wilson,
center; Jones, end;
Marchant, tackle.

up for the loss of Owings, and has been giving just as
good an account of himself in that position as he did
in 1934.

The other tackle job this season is being held down
by lanky Bob Spessard of Roanoke, Va., a sophomore
who stands six feet, seven inches and scales 219 pounds.

Other sophomores who
are showing up well and are
destined to see a great deal
of service, include Dorsey
Wilson of Versailles, Ky.,
center and guard; Frank

  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   

Jones of Richmond, Va.,
end; Tony Young of
Louisville, Ky., end;
Kerford Marchant of
Norfolk, Va., guard and
tackle; Layton Cox of
Irvine, Ky., quarterback; Earl Carson of Danville,
Ky., quarterback; and Roger Williams of Lynch-
burg, Va., fullback.

Hopes of repeating the quest for Southern con-
ference honors appear slight this year, although the
Generals will play four more conference schools dur-
ing the season while Duke faces tremendous assign-
ments in taking on the powerful North Carolina and
North Carolina State teams, neither of which Wash-
ington and Lee will meet.

The Washington and Lee squad of 1935 is small—

[ 10 ]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

approximately thirty men are in uniform, about half of
them sophomores. The squad, incidentally, is one of the
smallest in the conference. The same thing was true last
year, and the team, contrastingly, was one of the most
powerful. Here’s the squad roster:

Carl Dennis Anderson*, junior, Oak Hill, W. Va.;
Joseph Lee Arnold*, senior,
Danville, Ky.; Jack Foley
Bailey* (Captain), senior,
Maysville, Ky.; Lyle Ernest
Benvenuti, sophomore,
Adams, Mass.; Porter Du-

   
      
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 

ane Berry*, junior, Vin-
ton, Va.; Hugo Joseph
Bonino*, senior, Haw-
thorne, N. J.; Earl Jen-
nings Carson, sophomore,
Danville, Ky.; Layton
Cox, sophomore, Irvine,
Ky.; Haskell T. Dickin-
son, sophomore, Little Rock, Ark.; William David
Ellis*, senior, Ashland, Ky.; William D. Fishback,
junior, Versailles, Ky.; Frank Jones, sophomore,
Richmond, Va.; George Woodrow Lowry*, junior,
Clinton, Okla.; Kerford A. Marchant, sophomore,
Norfolk, Va.; Harry Harrison Meeks, sophomore, Bal-
timore, Md.; Alfred Preston Moore*, junior, Lexing-
ton, Va.; William Mahone Rogers, sophomore, Pet-
ersburg, Va.; Wilton Wade Sample*, junior, Shreve-
port, La.; Edward Leroy Seitz*, senior, Cass, W. Va.;
Ralph Carleton Sharretts, sophomore, Baltimore, Md. ;

Robert W. Spessard, sophomore, Roanoke, Va.; Charles
Atwater Sweet, senior, Bronxville, N. Y.; A. Joseph
Szymanski, sophomore, Yonkers, N. Y.; James Owen
Watts, senior, Lynchburg, Va.; John Clark White, soph-
omore, Charleston, W. Va.; Robert M. White, soph-
omore, Mexico, Mo.; Roger W. Williams, sophomore,
Lynchburg, Va.; James Dorsey Wilson, sophomore,
Versailles, Ky.; Anthony Brooks Young, sophomore,
Louisville, Ky. —*Indicates letter men.

The schedule for 1935 is as follows:

September 28, Wofford, Lexington (18-0) ; Octob-
er 5, Duke, Richmond (0-26); October 19, Centre,
Louisville; October 26, V. P. I., Bluefield; November 2,
West Virginia, Charleston; November 9, University of
Virginia (Homecoming), Lexington; November 16;
Maryland, College Park; November 28, South Caroli-
na, Columbia. . a

An unexpected delay in
printing this issue of The
Alumni Magazine makes it
possible to tell you about the
way the Generals broke a
fourteen-year old jinx out
at Louisville, whipping the
tough Colonels of Centre
college 14-7.

Left to right: Cox,
quarter; Young, end;
Szymanski, tackle;
Carson, quarterback.

[ 11 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Appropriately enough, it was a couple of Kentuckians
who carried the brunt of the attack on home territory.
Joe Arnold, who hails from Danville, right in Centre
territory, and Bill Ellis, the Ashland lad, stood out in
the game for their performances. It was Arnold who
quarterbacked the team
to victory and who
: made a 47-yard run for

ages one of the touchdowns
that broke the jinx;
and it was Ellis whose
long boots helped turn
the tide. Another Ken-
tuckian, Captain Jack
Bailey, played at full-
back despite a foot in-
jury. The headline writ-
ers don’t often say a
great deal about the
linemen who make it
possible for the ball
carriers to get through,
but the work of big
Hugo Bonino caught
more than usual atten-
tion in the Centre af-
fair. He smashed his
way through and block-
ed a kick, forcing a
Centre man to recover
behind his own _ goal
line for a safety.

The Generals are missing tremendously the trusty toe
of Sam Mattox, last of the Mattox brothers, who did all
of the place kicking last year. Both of Arnold’s tries for
point after touchdown by placement failed in Louisville,
and in the Wofford game at Lexington the Generals
missed three attempts at conversion after scoring.

Ed Seitz tried his toe at place kicking with some
success in practice, but observers have pointed out that
the services of Mattox would be badly needed if the
Generals were placed in a tight spot and forced to rely
on one point for the margin of victory or defeat.

 

 

Benvenuti, halfback

 

The football players who adorn the cover
of this issue of The Alumni Magazine are the
Generals’ letter men from last year. They are,
left to right, top row, Sample, Berry and Bonino;
second row, Ellis, Captain Bailey and Seitz;
third row, Moore, Anderson and Arnold; bot-
tom, left, Lowry, and right, Brasher.

 

 

 

162 Applicants for Degrees

FicurEs at the office of E. S. Mattingly, registrar
of the University, show that 162 seniors have made ap-
plications for degrees this year at Washington and Lee.
Last year’s applicants totaled 131.

Men applying for the Bachelor of Arts degree lead
the other departments this year, with 87 registered, 29
more than those seeking the A.B. last year. Seven are
asking for the Master of Arts.

A decrease of seven, however, was shown in the
number of men asking degrees from the law school,
only 19 potential attorneys filing their applications.

The commerce school shows a gain of one student
over last year in the applications, 31 seeking the Bach-
elor of Science degree in commerce. Eighteen students
are applying for degrees in the science school, two of
them seeking the Master of Science degree.

 

The Old Covered Bridge

THE OLD covered bridge across North river, delight
of historians and pet peeve of many motorists, will soon
give way to a modern structure. Work on the new bridge,
which crosses the river just below the railway tracks, is
fast nearing completion, and alumni returning to the
campus soon will drive over a new road all the way in
to Lexington from Timber Ridge, on the Lee highway.

The historic covered bridge, one of the few left
standing in this section of the country, and one of the
few in the United States to withstand heavy modern
motor travel, was built in its present form shortly after
being burned during the War Between the States. It
was, however, originally constructed many years be-
fore that.

Students Usher at Stratford Hall

WASHINGTON AND LEE university students played
an appropriate part in the dedication of Stratford Hall,
birthplace of General Robert E. Lee, on October 12,
the anniversary of his death. A group of twenty stu-
dents, chosen for the honor by Omicron Delta Kappa,
acted as ushers at the ceremony.

Exercises, brief and impressive, also were held in
Lee Chapel on the anniversary of the Southern hero’s
death. Dr. Tucker presided at the Lee Chapel exercises
in the absence of Dr. Gaines, who was at Stratford for
the ceremonies there and the meeting of the University’s
board of trustees. Dr. Tucker read excerpts from the
minutes of the faculty adopted the day after Lee’s death
at his home on the campus. He read the original tran-
script, which is preserved in the University’s vault.

 

[ 12 ]

 

 

 

a) i
ae

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Little Generals of 1935

NCLUDING twelve men from the state of Virginia
YG itself, the Washington and Lee freshman football
squad this year has representatives from seventeen
states, the District of Columbia and Peru. Lexington is

contributing two men to the team, P. F. Davis and Ed
Shannon, end and guard, respectively.

The South holds the majority with twenty-nine men
from below the Mason and Dixon line as compared to
twenty-one from the North. They come from as far
north as Massachusetts, as far west as Arkansas and as
far south as Texas.

The state of Kentucky not only presents the second
largest aggregation, eight men, but one of the poten-
tially strong players is Bill Borries from Louisville. Bill
is the younger brother of “Buzz” Borries, famous all-
American Navy back of last season, and has capably
held down an end position on the Little Generals’ eleven
so far this fall.

Although their season has not been totally success-
ful to date, having lost the opening game to Richmond
and won one from V. P. I., the yearlings promise to be
the best such group in recent years.

One of the outstanding players is Joe Oschie, tackle,
from Paterson, New Jersey, who was elected to captain
his team against the West Virginia frosh. The back-
field has unusually plentiful material and it has been a
difficult task for Coach Amos Bolen to select a first
string. Due to their excellent work in the first two games,
the following have been tentatively selected to carry the
ball as “regulars”’ :

J. R. Kately, Adams, Mass.; Bob Mefford, Win-
chester, Kentucky ; Raymond Craft, Clifton Forge, Va. ;
and Donald Dunlap, Washington, D. C.

The Little Generals’ roster :

P. F. Davis, guard, Lexington, Va.; B. R. Lawton,
back, Birmingham, Ala.; Ed Gough, back, Lexington,
Ky.; Jim Lindsay, guard, Ringgold, Va.; John Frost,
back, San Antonio, Texas; Bill Hesketh, end, Irving-
ton, N. J.; Tom Tennant, center, Hammond, Ind.; C.
W. Collier, back, W. Hartford, Conn.; Tom White, cen-
ter, Richmond, Va.; F. C. Wiley, end, Salem, Va.; Frank
McNicol, back, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Cecil Taylor, back,
Lynchburg, Va.; Ed Rimpo, back, Paterson, N. J.; Jack
Fey, back, Cumberland, Md.; Bill Hillier, guard, Chi-
cago, Ill.; John Alexander, tackle, Leesburg, Va.;
Charles Middleburg, tackle, Charleston, W. Va.; Walter

Hamilton, guard, Chicago, Ill.; Ed Shannon, end, Lex-
ington, Va.; G. M. Smith, tackle, Richmond, Va.

W. P. Kesel, back, Valley Stream, N. Y.; James
McClure, tackle, Chicago, Ill.; John Powell, back, Suf-
folk, Va.; Charles Lykes, tackle, Houston, Texas; John
Wright, end, Charleston, W. Va.; Bill Borries, end,
Louisville, Ky.; J. R. Kateley, back, Adams, Mass. ;
Joe Ochsie, tackle, Paterson, N. J.; Denny Gooch,
tackle, Somerset, Ky.; Shack Parrish, guard, Paris,
Ky.; Bill Brown, guard, Louisville, Ky.; Allen Craig,
center, Woodhaven, N. Y.; Bob Mefford, back, Win-
chester, Ky.; Raymond Craft, back, Clifton Forge, Va. ;
Donald Dunlap, back, Washington, D. C.; L. E. Long,
center, Abilene, Texas; T. J. Harlan, end, Paris, Ky.;
M. T. Howard, tackle, Oroya, Peru.

J. R. Howard, back, Lynch, Ky.; A. J. White, back,
Charleston, W. Va.; Stuart Allen, back, Staunton, Va. ;
Bernie Harper, end, Fort Smith, Ark.; John Campbell,
tackle, Chelyan, W. Va.; G. W. Parsons, back, Natural
Bridge, Va.; Tom Mercein, end, Milwaukee, Wis.; Al-
len Legare, end, Charleston, S. C.; George Goodwin,
back, Atlanta, Ga.; Howard Schriver, end, Cincinnati,

hio; Dick Steelman, back, Hammond, Ind.; F. L.
Powell, back, Huntsville, Ala.

 

Football Coaches and Law

WANT TO READ a unique football story?

Here it is, anyway:

Tex Tilson, who coaches the Washington and Lee
Generals, and Bill Raftery, who directs the destinies
of the V. M. I. Cadets, are attending law school at Wash-
ington and Lee this year.

So far as the records go, it’s the only time in history
that the coaches of rival major institutions have gone to
school together during the gridiron season.

They’re not taking the same class—each is registered
in only one subject—but they meet in the library and
they meet on the campus, and those who see them smile
and say that it’s just another indication of improved re-
lations between Washington and Lee and the Virginia
Military Institute.

Tilson was a member of the class of 1926; Raftery
was a member of Washington and Lee’s class of 1915.

And that’s the unique football story of the year.

[ 13 ]

He Prints Your Magazine

THE EDITORS of The Alumni Magazine want you to
meet and know a little bit about a man who has about
as much to do with the appearance of your publication
as anyone:

He is C. Harold Lauck, director of the journalism
laboratory at Washington and Lee, and typographical
godfather of this magazine. The publication, as we’ve
ween, pointed out, comes from

ee ® the press of the jour-
' = nalism laboratory, tech-
nically known as the
Virginian Publishing
Company.

The editors feel that
Mr. Lauck’s time and
effort toward the pleas-
ant typographical as-
pect of the magazine
at least warrants a few
words about him, as
well as his picture. So:

Mr. Lauck, first of
all, is the man who has
put the mechanical end
of journalism at Wash-
ington and Lee on the
map. He is among the
best known figures in the graphic arts industry in Vir-
ginia, and is becoming well known in other parts of the
nation and the world, especially since his publication of
“The Beginnings of Printing in Virginia,” a little book
that has won much acclaim.

 

C. Harold Lauck

Lauck was graduated from Roanoke college in 1918.
he came to Washington and Lee in 1932, and under his
supervision, in co-operation with the directors of the
Lee School of Journalism, the mechanical laboratory has
grown steadily.

“The Beginnings of Printing in Virginia,” a detailed
study of the typographical development in the Old Do-
minion, was written by Douglas C. McMurtrie, and
printed during the summer by Mr. Lauck in the journal-
ism laboratory. The book, attractively bound in black
paper, with the title on a white label, has received in-
creasing praise from bibliographers and has been added
to numerous private and public collections. The book is
being distributed from the School of Journalism at
Washington and Lee.

Mr. Lauck won further recognition last summer by
taking first place in a typographic contest for teachers of
printing of the United States and Canada at the annual

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

printing education conference held this year in Boston.
He teaches courses in the mechanics of journalism at
Washington and Lee.

That’s C. Harold Lauck, “a swell fellow,” who takes
as much interest in putting out The Alumni Magazine as

the most enthusiastic alumnus takes in reading it.
—R. P. C.

 

Dr. Derr’s Own Obituary

Dr. Ezra Z. Derr, one of the university’s most bril-
liant alumni, died last month at his home in Frederick
county, Maryland. He wrote his own obituary, which
The Alumni Magazine reprints as a tribute to his ac-
complishments. The self-prepared obituary follows:

“Dr. Derr was the last of the immediate family of
John Derr, Esq., who died here in 1866. He was born
on the 12th of January, 1851, and received his educa-
tion at the Frederick Academy, Washington College,
(now Washington and Lee University), the University
of Virginia, and the University of New York.

“He entered the Navy in 1873 as a medical officer,
and passed through the various ranks of lieutenant, lieu-
tenant-commander, commander and captain, and retired
on account of age in 1910. During his career on the
active list he served in every quarter-of the world, was
shipwrecked, and came near losing his life in the great
hurricane at Samoa, March 15, 1889, in which two ships
of the squadron were lost and many perished.

“Dr. Derr was a member of the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, and is the author
of two works on science and philosophy, viz: “The Un-
caused Being’ and ‘Evolution Versus Involution,’ both
of which were highly commended by the critics.

“In 1933 he announced his Spiral theory of the rev-
olution of the planets around the sun in a paper entitled
‘The Spiral Versus the Elliptical Theory.’ A model dem-
onstrating the theory is to be seen at the Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D. C.

“In 1880 Dr. Derr married Miss Julia Latham,
daughter of Robert W. Latham, Esq., of Fauquier coun-
ty, Virginia. |

“Dr. Derr was a member of the Reformed church of
Frederick. His ancestor, Sebastian Derr, who came to
this country in 1728, was one of the founders of this
church.”

 

Dr. WILLIAM THomson Hanzscue, class of 1913,
broadcast as “The Trail Finder” on a nation-wide hook-
up from Radio City during July, August and Septem-
ber. The broadcasts were under the auspices of the Fed-
eral Council of Churches.

[ 14 ]

pl Mia lt ie ns

a i ah ee

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“Old George” Atop Washington College

Os story of “Old George,’ who adorns the bell-

By tower of Washington College, has been a source of
considerable speculation on the campus for years. Here is
a true story, reprinted from the Rockbridge County
News of 1899. It was written by Captain J. D. Morri-
son, grandfather of Turner Morrison, ’37. Captain Mor-
rison was valedictorian of the graduating class at Wash-
ington College in 1854.

I have had a number of requests to write a sketch
of the Kahle statue of Washington that occupies the
top of the cupola of the main building of Washington
and Lee university. A long familiarity connected with a
knowledge of the disparaging criticisms and the con-
temptuous treatment it has received makes a serious ar-
ticle on the subject a rather difficult task. My acquaint-
ance with it began when I was a small boy and when it
was a huge white pine log fresh from the forests of the
Blue Ridge near where Buena now is. This was in 1842
in Kahle’s shop in the rear of one of the brick buildings
on Main street in Lexington opposite the present engine
house. I watched it from time to time whilst it was being
adzed and shaved and chiselled into the shape and si-
militude of the Father of his Country and mounted on
its lofty pedastal. I have seen it ever since, through foul
weather and fair, sometimes, as at present, in its peer-
less coat of white paint and again streaked and striped
with all the variegated colors of Joseph’s coat, or again
embellished like an Indian chief in his feathers and war
paint. I have seen it posing in the breeze adorned with a
flowing red flannel shirt with a tall, old fashioned
military cap on top tipped with a long red pompon.

Captain Matthew S. Kahle, who did
this work, was a cabinet-maker of the
town and had the reputation of being a
remarkably skillful and ingenious worker
in wood. I don’t know that he ever before
had any experience in the line of art,
especially of sculpture. In fact I doubt
whether he had ever seen anything of the
kind as there was nothing in Lexington or
even in the state at that time unless it
was Houdon’s statue of Washington in
Richmond. The bronze copy of the last
at the V. M. I. and “Pettigrew’s Injun”
were later works. I remember to have seen
in his shop some portraits and other pic-

 

 

“Old George”

tures and some medalions. I take it that these and his
native skill was all that he had to guide him in the work.
It is a wonder he succeeded so well.

The statue was not furnished and paid for by col-
lege as is generally supposed. It was gotten up by sub-
scription, and was poorly paid for at that, as I learn that
Kahle’s compensation was less than $100. The only ac-
tion of the college authorities I can find on the subject
is a single sentence in the proceedings of the board of
trustees at a meeting February 22, 1842, to this effect:
“That permission is hereby given for a wooden statue
of Washington to be built to be placed on the cupola
and to be paid for by subscription.” Who the subscrib-
ers were and what was subscribed, and who suggested
and planned the work does not appear.

I was not at the “unveiling,” which I am informed
consisted in hauling the statue over to the college in a
wheel-barrow and hoisting to its position. In the discus-
sion as to how to get it up some of the boys suggested
putting a rope around the neck and hoisting it that way.
This made Captain Kahle furiously angry.

It is not a great work of art but I have always de-
fended it among the many stupid criticisms and attempt-
ed witticisms which have been aimed at it. I have doubt-
ed whether Phidias himself could have done better with
nothing but a pine log and a broad-axe, a foot-adze and
a draw-knife and a few chisels and gouges to work with.

The idea—the conception of the work, is good. It is
a fair likeness. The pose of the figure is fine. The drap-
ery and style of dress are well chosen. The toga or cloak
of civil life, partially hiding the military dress beneath,
the sword in one hand and the scroll in the other, indi-
cate the warrior and statesman which he
was. (I have often wondered whether the
idea of this figure was original or a copy.)

The conception is grand. The Father of
His Country stands upon his elevated pede-
stal and surveys the exquisite scene around
him which vision is limited by a cordon of
blue mountains and canopied by a vault of
bluer skies. He seems to scan with the
placid countanance of pleasure the scene
of the fruits of his own gifts and to con-
template the land and homes of the de-
scendants of the men upon whom he relied
had the dark hour of defeat overtaken him
in his battle for the freedom of his country.

=

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He’s a Cartoonist Now

Bitt Dyer, the husky lad from Johnson City, Tenn.,
who had rather draw funny pictures than play football,

has landed a newspaper job.

He'll do sports writing and cartooning on the staff
of the Knoxville News-Sentinel, and that’s just exactly

what he has been
many years. Bill
tackle last season
and Lee team that
ginia and Southern
pionships. During
sketched some of
including
Charleston,
hiscartoons
nized and

   
  
 
  
  

wanting to do for
Dyer was a star at
on the Washington
won both the Vir-
Conference cham-
the season he
his fellow players,
Bill Seaton of
West Va., and
were recog-
were circulat-
country by the

ed over the Bill Dyer
Associated Press. Last
year, too, Dyer drew covers for The Southern Collegian,
Washington and Lee student magazine, that attracted
much attention. He also has done cartooning for other
newspapers, and one of his drawings, we know, appear-
ed in the Johnson City Press, which Bill Davis, an alum-
nus, serves as managing editor.

Sports writers dubbed Dyer “the artistic tackle’ and
predicted that with his knowledge of football and his
skill with pen and ink, he would soon land in the most
logical spot—a newspaper job.

Dyer was graduated in June of this year after play-
ing his last year of football for the Generals. His loss
left a mighty hole in the sturdy forewall of 1934 for
Tex Tilson to plug up. The problem has been solved,
however, by the lanky Bob Spessard of Roanoke, a
sophomore, and the dependable, hard-hitting Hugo Bo-
nino of Hawthorne, New Jersey, both playing tackle
this season.

How long has Bill Dyer been drawing those funny
little pictures and caricatures of sports luminaries ?

Ever since he can remember, he declares.

 

W. B. HEssELTINE, who received the A. B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1922, and who is now as-
sistant professor of history at the University of Wis-
consin, is the author of a new life of General U. S.
Grant which is arousing a great deal of interest and at-
tention. The book deals particularly with the political
phases of Grant’s life, and his presidency. There have
been interesting reviews of this book in the New York
Times Book Review section and the Saturday Review
of Literature.

General Lee’s “Peace Letter”

A LETTER written by General Robert E. Lee while
president of Washington College, setting forth his faith
in the Constitution of the United States, was ‘‘discover-
ed” last month in Tennessee. The letter, written by Lee
to one of his staff officers, General George W. Jones,
on March 22, 1869, appears interesting enough to re-
print in part:

“My Dear General-—I am very much gratified at the
reception this morning of your letter of the 16th inst.,
inclosing for my perusal one that you had received from
General A. C. Dodge, and which as you have given me
permission I will retain; not merely for the expression
of his kind sentiments towards me which I feel I illy
deserve, but in remembrance of the writer. Were it
worth his while to refer to my political record he would
find I was not in favor of secession and was opposed to
war. In fact, that I was for the constitution and the
Union established by our forefathers. No one now is
more in favor of that Union and that constitution and
as far as I know it is that for which the South has all
along contended, and if restored as I trust they will be,
I am sure there will be no truer supporters of that Union
and that constitution than the Southern people. But I
must not wander into politics, a subject I carefully avoid,
and return to your letter.”

 

A Cowboy Turns Engraver

Ben F. Sewarp, class of 1914, has become inter-
nationally famous in the world of graphic arts as a
maker of four-color printing plates. Seward, a Texas
cowboy, attended Washington and Lee a year, then
went to the University of Missouri to graduate in chem-
ical engineering. Later he became a copywriter in an
advertising firm, and in 1923 went to Kansas City, pur-
chasing an engraving company and settling down to the
business of becoming the tops in his profession. The
magazine ‘Printing,’ organ of the graphic arts in-
dustry, carried in a recent issue an article on Mr. Sew-
ard that was a tribute to his accomplishments.

 

Topp Ropsins, who penned the words to the im-
mortal Washington and Lee Swing, has been playing
still more tennis on the French Riviera. One of his op-
ponents in a recent international tournament was the
King of Sweden, almost as well known a tennis figure
as Bill Tilden. Robbins and his wife say they intend to
return to America shortly—they have been living abroad
for some time. Robbins, in addition to his accomplish-
ments with the Swing, is a well-known writer of fiction.

[ 16 |

SS se ees CeO

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

- os¥ 3a7%.tso
UD BIT aru

Je Ut TSA

Local Alumni Association Notes

Charleston

AtumNI of Charleston and vicinity held their sum-
mer meeting on September 29 at the Edgewood Coun-
try club in Charleston, staging a well-attended buffet
supper with Cyrus Hall, class of 1923, acting as toast-
master.

John W. Moore, class of 1889, oldest alumnus atthe
meeting, reminisced of the good old days in Lexington
in a short talk. Other addresses were made by Waller
C. Hardy, class of 1904; and Homer Holt, attorney
general of West Virginia.

Those present included: John J. D. Preston, John
W: Mason, Jerome W. Schwabe, Cyrus W. Hall, Way-
land R. Kerns, Forest E. Huffman, Dorr Tucker, Brown
Lewis, W. E. R. Byrne, Jr., W. B. Watts, 5. L. Mac-
Corkle, Waller C. Hardy, C. Bernard Gates, H. W.
Bowers, Jr., Zan Campbell, S. L. Clark, Jr., J. T. Mar-
tin, S. M. Preston, M. D. Campbell, Jr., Kay Thomas,
J. M. Woods, D. N. Mohler, Brown Truslow, John C,
White, W. H. Truslow, Jr., Joe Blackburn, M. F. Bla-
ney, Eddie Hiserman, Kelley Reed, C. A. Wood, Jr.,
W. Todd DeVan, P. A. Herscher, C. H. Zerkle, J. B.
Hoke, Alex W. Quarrier, L. O. Fagan, Norman 5.
Fitzhugh, Norman S. Fitzhugh, Jr., Rocky Holt, R. P.
DeVan, Jr., Dr. Andrew Amick, Charles G. Peters, C.
F. Stuart, W. H. Seaton, J. H. Thomas, and Kenneth

Hines.
Little Rock

Tue ARKANSAS Alumni Association of Washington
and Lee University met at the Peacock in Little Rock,
June 12. James H. Penick, president, presided. The
meeting was the most enthusiastic since the association
was formed last fall.

Vincent M. Miles of Fort Smith, commander of the
Arkansas department of the American Legion and mem-
ber of the class of 1907, made the principal address,
reminiscing on his college days. He recalled that he and
Mrs. Miles were married in Lexington in 1910, the eve
of the first Fancy Dress ball.

He urged alumni to stand by the university, to re-
member the old traditions of their alma mater and sup-
port their state alumni associations.

Following a talk by Tyndall Dickinson, sophomore
member of the football squad from Little Rock who dis-
cussed the football prospects for this fall, gave the

method of training and gave a brief biography of every
man on the team, an enthusiastic discussion on football
was held.

Vint Miles disclosed that he formerly played end on
a Washington and Lee team and Walter W. Terry of
Little Rock, class of 1913, said he played half on the
same team with Cy Young. The meeting adopted reso-
lutions of thanks for the work which Coach Tex Tilson
and Cy Young have done.

Tom Sparks of Fordyce, 1935 graduate from the
law school, outlined the building program for the law
school.

Everett Tucker of Little Rock, class of 1934, gave
a report on finals this year. Alfred Kahn, Jr., of Little
Rock, who will finish at the university next year, dis-
cussed several campus highlights during the past year.
J. H. McMillan of Arkadelphia, class of 1895, recalled
memories of campus life at Lexington. Gus Ottenheimer
of Little Rock, class of 1917, also recalled his memories
of Washington and Lee and enthusiastically endorsed
the state alumni association.

The following men attended: Little Rock—James H.
Penick, 1917; W. W. Terry, 1913; Bruce Bullion, 1932;
Everett Tucker, 1934; George Smith, 1931; Leighton
McKinney, 1932; Tom Fitzhugh, 1931; Allan Wool-
folk, 1935; John W. Newman, 1906; Gus Ottenheimer,
1917; Tyndall Dickinson, 1938; Alfred Kahn, Jr., 1936 ;
and Curtis McKinney and Jimmy Rice, who will enter
the university next fall.

Fordyce—Tom Sparks, 1935.

Lake Village—Robert L. Buffington, 1934.
Fort Smith—Vincent M. Miles, 1907.
Conway—Robert W. Mosley, 1930.
Arkadelphia—John Henry McMillan, 1895.
Holly Grove—Beverly J. Lambert, Jr., 1931.

Chattanooga

ALUMNI of Chattanooga at their organization meet-
ing August 30 elected Charles Luther Claunch as pres-
ident and formulated enthusiastic plans for making their
organization one of the liveliest in the country.

The initial gathering was a dinner-meeting at the
Chattanooga Golf and Country club, with Attorney
General Peabody Howard speaking on “The Washing-
ton and Lee Ideal.” Frank A. Nelson, unanimously

[17 ]

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA.

A

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

elected honorary president of the new group, talked on
“My School Days at Washington and Lee.”

Mr. Claunch is connected with the law firm of
Charles A. Noone; Mr. Nelson is manager of the Chat-
tanooga Clearing House Association and has been prom-
inently identified with Washington and Lee alumni af-
fairs for many years.

Ed Brown, general agent for the Penn Mutual Life
Insurance company, was elected vice-president, and
John D. Stanard, advertising counsel of Advertising
Associates, was elected secretary-treasurer. Harry Spen-
cer, manager of the Armored Motor Service, Inc., was
appointed by President Claunch to head, as chairman,
the school committee of the chapter.

Members of the alumni chapter formed at the meet-
ing are Earle Clemons, E. Lea Davis, William M.
Davis, Fred A. Hahn, William R. Henderson, Dr.
J. McChesney Hogshead, Charles F. Hood, Jr., W. N.
Jones, Jr., Dr. Tom McCallie, the Rev. Battle McLester,
Frank W. Moore, Byron C. Browder, William E. Brock,
Jr., John Morgan Bright, Charles B. Bagley, Jr., Clar-
ence R. Avery, Edward E. Brown, James W. Cassell,
Jr., William Cassell, Thomas M. Semmes, H. Knox
Smartt, Howell F. Snodgrass, Glenn Richard Stoutt,
Neal L. Thompson, C. W. Tharpe, William H. Trotter,
Jr., Raymond Wallace, Lewis A. Wilkins, Mr. Claunch,
Mr. Nelson, Mr. Spencer, Mr. Howard and Mr. Stanard.

Saint Louis

It’s a somewhat belated notice, but it reached us too
late for the last issue of the 1934-1935 session: The
St. Louis alumni, meeting in April, voted the scholar-
ship award to Joe Edwards of St. Louis, and pledged
themselves to “at least $500” for the new law school.
All officers of the chapter were re-elected.

Greensboro

THE Piedmont Alumni Club, meeting at the O. Henry
hotel in Greensboro October 2, heard Sam Mattox, cap-
tain of the Generals’ football team last year, discuss the
team’s prospects for the 1935 season. Sam is now a res-
ident of the Carolina city.

Larry W. Wilson, of Greensboro, was re-elected
president for the second successive year. Clayborne
Darden was named vice-president; Edwin Payne, vice-
president of the High Point delegation; Robert A. Mer-
ritt, re-elected secretary and Harry S. Spiers, treasurer.
All officers will serve for one year.

Short talks were also made by Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, president emeritus, and Mr. Scott, of Roanoke,

gs ,3°%" **“ 2 « ¢
gta 4 « + 7

Virginia. Out-of-town vistore included Mr. Scott and
Johr? We Wright, both of Roanoké; and John L. Crisp,
of Charlotte.

 

Richmond

ALUMNI of Richmond gathered at the historic West-
moreland club in the capital city of the Old Dominion
October 4 on the eve of the Duke game for one of the
most successful dinner meetings in the history of the
city’s organization.

Governor George C. Peery headed a long list of not-
ables who attended the meeting, which became a “pep”
meeting for the Duke classic at the stadium the follow-
ing afternoon. Lieutenant Governor James H. Price,
candidate for chief executive of Virginia in the forth-
coming Democratic primary, presided and introduced
several speakers, including Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson,
of Richmond, newly-elected member of the board of
trustees of Washington and Lee.

Dick Smith and Cy Young, attending the dinner,
slipped away after the first course and appeared on a
radio program from station WRVA, in the city, dis-
cussing the athletic outlook at the university, particu-
larly in reference to the Duke game. However, they
found themselves in for still more speech-making when
they returned to the club for their dessert, Cy injecting
enthusiasm into the alumni with one of his best rally
speeches.

Some seventy alumni of Richmond and vicinity at-
tended the dinner. The Alumni Magazine regrets that
the list of those who were present is not available as this
issue goes to press.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE graduates not only get choice
assignments in state offices—they gain recognition by
the federal government as well. Vincent Miles, class of
1907, was one of the three men named to the National
Security Board to inaugurate the nation-wide security
program in its various phases.

 

A Tourist asked this question the other day at Lee
Chapel: “Why is Washington and Lee named for two
men who fought against each other in the revolution ?”
The custodian says that’s just one of the many curious
queries put to her.

 

Emmet? W. MacCork eg, Jr., formerly of Ashland,
Kentucky, is now connected with the sales department
of the Air Reduction Sales company, with headquarter :
at Wheeling, West Virginia.

[ 18 ]

 

A
s
a
.
+
«

* oh

™

week. aaowt
oh ee ee

*Y Aces os

re 04 LASS ae ty Sie. tee

oe ee oath ale phi Ls 2s

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1935 Alumni Class Fund

CLASS No. oF CONTRIBUTORS AMOUNT
1869-1889. ....;;scceuueneenen OD i os cet: alee ae $ 72.50
$990 | ...d.:::..3. a Ba va Soatiny <cs toss 50.00
ROE ooicccckceccscoeeeeeneeaaae Dy A itraeastie, ste 5.00
TRO2 | «0.0: peaeeenaeeee OS FSi as 233.50
1803 -..2c3:.. -e Pact Daina cack 50.00
$894  ....i.:...5\ eal O hier ti atinis 55.00
1895 «:k.<.4 cine Oita. anid. ce 23.00
FROG ......:::csnureeeee ener Woe tet aciee tesa 116.00
1807 =....:.c1.. cea RB iscttan chs. en 43.00
18908 . .....<csssScitephubanbeeian Wikis, sivuatakites colaeins 102.00
1809 . -...c...cccekieg eerie Ss dtd aah 90.50
1900. :....:::diSaigeeiens Pinion dened 15.00
1901... ce B Han cutbsien ceca 34.50
1902 | ..-:..i: fede as ake cel ntoeeis, 59.00
1903... «...:,.:.cshea Dod onnahelenekun 35.50
1904 . | ...:.:.:chnseeeaeee Piacente 98.00
1905 * <:...,:/ gee oa aos 17.00
1906: ..:.,..:.dieeeeenmene sic. (nebctahtiew 119.00
1907 © .....:cfccan-cieeueeeenn eis onaas< teaxisek 26.00
1908. .:i..sicsaoke Seed en Oa Nee aan oe 83.00
1909 =. occurs ee 270.50
1910 ° ......coeee eee BR Aaaet bite: 83.50
1911 | is .cicipeeeeene ee y+ Bi eee ee 81.00
1912.*: .:.:.Seaeaeeeeene Mia sitisueeiins. 82.50
1913 :...::3 chgoeeeaeatieeee I tae sthidenaieas iat 47.00
1914 -..:::. scsi eae RG ie. |..,: Nav dicate 111.50
1915. .....ccciabeeeaeenmnaiarns AN iuation wake 149.50
1916 30 Cai eon BB tt ictgoh cue 42.50
1917 |. icl.-cdea eee BP ic citiins... cai 181.50
1918... Ae Satake cicisicgs 43.50
1919... ...:csccleeee BO ai Mbcs iiss cade 116.00
1920. ........ Rs chicane sacs: Collie 124.50
1921 .......ccccReeeene SD sop sticken venice 108.00
1922: .:..:..cteenee Pike coe eblas 28.00
1923” <::..:.ch pape Bad. ypccte coe 27.50
1924 ~ 3......c cee eiemeeeaee IE Reo neskh sss heepsees 59.50
1925. Se eee Be i oa ea 95.00
1926. i...,.coantigasdbeeteeaee Bi scl idics csieceeteees 30.50
NGF oa i.03c: cc Daioh sicicgwecae 14.00
1928 © s...xcti hae ee Wik inn inicasi cathe ae 15.00
1929... cseserthieeiiiaaalapo dna BC iitisds icccdieate 93.50
1930. ...,ceietahediaea Wastin: cian 76.00
1931 . :. [gestern 1 >. Sib eee 53.00
1932. ...;.c:pgee tela. BB. iscsi bodes: 46.00
1933 _ ....dcineemeeaee nites? BED is cede tacts 25.00
1934... copula da WE Sistine 60.00
ISS ict deen ee Pe cost in aca 4.00
1936-1937»... tesco. WE <i Dicanncbvacttaeias 34.00
E57 | civnievoncscalee ME sash iciauaier te 10.00

Teh. 645 $3440.05

Three Brothers at University

UNIVERSITY student bodies often have two members
of the same family enrolled the same year, but it isn’t
often that one institution finds three brothers in school
at one time. The three Basile brothers, however, are at-
tending Washington and Lee this year. They are sons
of the Rev. and Mrs. Giustino Basile of Brooklyn, New
York, and are the only members of the family who have
ever attended W. and L. They are Arthur E. Basile, 17,
freshman; Robert M. Basile, 19, sophomore; and David
G. Basile, 21, a senior. The Rev. Mr. Basile is pastor of
the First Baptist Church of Canarsie in Brooklyn.

 

In Memoriam

JoHN RANDOLPH ANDERSON, member of the class
of 1877, died at his home in Richmond, Va., on Sep-
tember 4, 1935. He was 75 years old, and had been an
active leader in the business life of the Virginia state
capital for fifty years. Most of his childhood was spent
in Lexington.

The Rev. Wittram Marcettus McPHEETERS,
D. D., retired professor-emeritus of Columbia Theolog-
ical Seminary at Decatur, Ga., died August 14 at his
home in Charlotte, N. C. He was a member of the class
of 1874 at Washington and Lee.

RicHARD HAMILTON, one of the most promising
young newspapermen of the Old Dominion, died at
Portsmouth, Va., the latter part of last May. He was
associate publisher of the Portsmouth Star, and was
graduated in journalism from Washington and Lee in

1930.

Joun M. Rosrnson of Bayou la Chute, La., fre-
quently referred to in Louisiana as “Washington and
Lee’s most loyal alumnus,” died last April after a long
illness. He was one of the leading citizens of his state.

 

Marriage

WeEpDING bells have rung for Rhydon Call Latham,
class of 1928, center on the Generals football team, and
now secretary of the Jacksonville, Fla., alumni associa-
tion. He and Mrs. Elizabeth Stevens Smith were mar-
ried at Jacksonville on August 6, 1935.

 

Birth
A son, Richard Michael Williams, was born last

July 26, to Mr. and Mrs. Ki Williams of Waynesboro.
Ki is class agent for the class of 1915.

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1870

JoHN SAMUEL McCurTrcHAN moved to Missouri a
year after leaving Washington and Lee, and has lived
on his farm near Monticello, Missouri, continuously
since that time. In 1898 he was elected county judge and
served in that capacity for sixteen years.

1873

WituiAMm H. Taytor, who entered Washington and
Lee in 1869, received his A. B. in 1873, M.A. in 1874,
and LL.B. in 1875, and remained at Washington and
Lee as a teacher for several years, has retired from the
practice of law in Uniontown, Alabama. Judge ‘Tayloe
and his wife visited Lexington for some weeks this
summer and he particularly enjoyed renewing his ac-
quaintance with the college.

1876

JouN Mitton Rosinson lives in Shreveport, Lou-
isiana (Route 1, Box 282), and devotes most of his
time to cotton farming. He is a member of the board
of trustees of Centenary College and is a member of the
board of directors of the Commercial National Bank in
Shreveport.

1883

WiLL1AM S. CAMPBELL attended the Union Theo-
logical Seminary after leaving Washington and Lee, and
since that time has been a minister of the Presbyterian
church. He is at present editor and publisher of The
Presbyterian of the South, Richmond, Virginia.

1884

Harrison Brooks Smitru, who attended Washing-
ton and Lee from 1882 to 1884, received the A. B. de-
gree from Princeton in 1886. He studied law at the
University of Virginia and has practiced law ever since.
He lives in Charleston, West Virginia.

1885

Asa LELAND DuNCAN entered the practice of law
in Missoula, Montana, in- 1892, and in 1898 enlisted and
served as captain in the Spanish-American War, being
promoted to the rank of major while in Manila. In 1899
he returned to Missoula, where he has lived ever since.
In 1912 he was elected judge of the fourth judicial dis-
trict of Montana, which position he still holds.

1887

LESLIE LYLE CAMPBELL, who made an enviable rec.
ord at Washington and Lee as president of the Y. M.
C. A., president of the Athletic Association, winner of
the Robinson Medal and Howard Houston Fellowship
in mathematics, is professor of physics at Simmons Col-
lege, Boston, Massachusetts. He received his M.A.
from Harvard, studied further at Cambridge Univer-
sity, and is a member of numerous learned societies.
He has published a book in his field, as well as a great
many research papers.

1888

OswaLtp S. Hawkins, of Parkersburg, West Vir-
ginia, is now state director for the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration. Prior to this appointment he had been
in teaching, farming, real estate, insurance, and mining.

1890

Davip BELL Maccowan retired this year, after a
most interesting career, and is living in Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia. Following post-graduate study at the Universi-
ties of Halle and Berlin, he was engaged in reportorial

work in Memphis, St. Louis and Chicago, and then be- ’

came a foreign correspondent in Berlin and St. Peters-
burg. He was a war correspondent for the Associated
Press in Russia, Turkey and Persia. From 1915 until
1935 he was in the United States Consular Service and
the Diplomatic Service.

1891

JosEpH ANDERSON GLASGow, class agent for 1891,
has been judge of the eighteenth judicial circuit of Vir-
ginia since 1928. He began practicing law in Staunton,
Virginia, in 1891, becoming police justice and later
commonwealth’s attorney for that city.

1892

Joun M. Woops has been prosecuting attorney of
Berkeley county, West Virginia, and judge of the twen-
ty-third judicial circuit. He resigned from the bench in
1925 and since that time has practiced law in Charles-
ton as a member of the firm of Price, Smith and Spilman.

Wittiam G. WIGLEswor'H practiced law until 1907,
and since that time has been owner and operator of
loose leaf tobacco sales warehouses in Cynthiana, Ken-
tucky. His son, William G., Jr., was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1935.

[ 20 ]

 

 

onl i lh eh eg
.

 

» pees cane -

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1893

Jake Fisner, of Sutton, West Virginia, has been
a judge of the circuit court since 1913. In 1924, he was
Democratic nominee for governor.

WiLtiAM IsAAc PAINTER graduated from Jefferson
Medical College, in Philadelphia, in 1894. He has prac-
ticed medicine in Tazewell, Virginia, continuously since
1899.

Lon H. KEtty, class agent for 1893, is a member of
the law firm of Brown, Jackson and Knight, Charles-
ton, W. Va. He has held high positions in the legal
field, and in 1934 was president of the West Virginia
State Bar Association.

1894

MarrHew Ernest HANSEL, a member of the first
Washington and Lee Glee Club, lives in Old Fort, North
Carolina. From 1894 until 1898, he taught English and
Greek at Fishburn School and was principal of a pri.
vate high school, and in 1901 graduated from Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. Since that
time, he has been a home missionary and pastor, con-
tinuously, in West Virginia and North Carolina. Last
(but not least) he is the father of eight children.

James Bett Buttirv, football captain of 1893-and
1894 and president of final ball in 1894, received an
M.D. degree from the University of Virginia in 1897.
After one year in a New York hospital, he returned
to the University of Virginia as demonstrator of anat-
omy, and in 1903 went to the University of Mississippi
as professor of anatomy and pathology. Since 1913, he
has been professor of pathology at the University of
North Carolina.

1895

LYNE STARLING SMITH, captain of the baseball
team of 1892, lives at 441 West 7th St., Erie, Penn-
sylvania. He represented the Proctor and Gamble Dis-
tributing Company in Pennsylvania and Ohio, but has
retired.

Sam Craic Lowrey was elected city attorney of
LaGrange, Texas, in 1899. He held the offices of county
attorney (1900-1911) and district attorney (1911-1922),
and practiced law until 1929, when he retired.

1896

JAMES WALTER LaTromus lives in Wilmington,
Delaware, with offices in the Citizens Bank Building.
He has practiced law, been judge of the juvenile court,
and since 1931 has been director of the Wilmington
Chamber of Commerce. He has three sons and a daugh-

ter. Two of the sons have graduated from the Univer-
sity of Delaware.

FRANKLIN Brocxson, of Wilmington, Delaware,
was admitted to the bar of Delaware in 1896, and is still
engaged in the general practice of law. He was a mem-
ber of the legislature of Delaware from 1909 to 1911,
and was representative-at-large from Delaware in Con-
gress from 1913 to 1915. He has never married.

FLoyp Witson Kine, of Alexandria, Virginia, has
been a member of the state senate, was a member of the
Commission to Paris to present a statue of Washington,
and is now chairman of the board and general counsel
for the Virginia Public Service company. He married
Miss Sadie Johnson, and their children are Marjorie,
Floyd, Jr., Elizabeth, Ruth St. George, Winston and
Wilmer.

Henry GILBERT REYNOLDs graduated from the med-
ical school of the University of Louisville in 1897. He
practiced medicine in Jefferson county, Kentucky, for
several years, and then took post graduate work in Chi-
cago, New York, Boston and Europe. He is now in
charge of the eye and ear department of the Illinois
Central Hospital in Paducah, Kentucky.

1897

THomaAs EpmMuNps MARSHALL is a cotton manu-
facturer and lives in Rocky Mount, N. C. He has a son
and a daughter.

CHARLES HENRY PHINIzy is president of the Geor-
gia Railroad Bank & Trust Company in Augusta, Geor-
gia, having moved there from Athens, Georgia, in 1923.
Prior to that time, he had been in the cotton business
and had been connected with banking and insurance bus-
inesses in Athens. He married Miss Nellie Carter Wright
in 1898, and they have two sons.

Tuomas Henry WEss is an engineer with the Tex-
as highway department and lives in Austin, Texas. He
married Miss Ione McLain, and they have one daugh-
ter, Francis Ione Webb.

1898

SAMUEL GARLAND HAMNER is a member of the law
firm of Edmunds and Hamner, Lynchburg, Va. He has
a son and daughter, S. Garland Hamner, Jr., and Sarah
H. Hamner.

RuEL ELBERTON EBERSOLE lives at 1055 Cambridge
Crescent, Norfolk, Va. He attended medical school at
the University of Virginia and entered the United States
Marine hospital service in 1900, later being commission-
ed in the medical corps, where he served for twenty-

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

seven years in various grades and at various stations in
the United States and abroad. He was retired in 1927,
and since that time has lived in Norfolk. Dr. Ebersole is
a most interested alumnus and keeps in close touch with
the University.

Ernest WuitNeEy Ripy is vice-president of the
Kentucky-Virginia Stone Company, and vice-president
of the Central Rock Company, living in Lawrenceburg,
Kentucky. He has three sons, one of whom is a junior
at Washington and Lee this year.

1899

JouHN Epwarp BurweEtt practices law in Floyd,
Virginia. For the past several years he has been trial
justice for Floyd county and also commissioner of ac-
counts of the circuit court of Floyd county. He was a
guard on the Washington and Lee football team and
recalls that his last game was played against West Vir-
ginia University in Charleston on November 28, 1895.

Gustavus BreNnz Capito received an M.A. from
Columbia University in 1900, an M.D. from the same
university in 1903, and continued his medical studies at
the University of Berlin. During the World War he was
a captain in the medical corps. At present, he is vice-
president of the Kanawha Valley hospital in Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Krrsy L. CHampers has spent a great deal of time
traveling over the world, and twenty years ago entered
the wholesale seed business with his father in Louisville,
Kentucky. He is now president of the Chambers Seed
Company in Louisville.

HERBERT BROOKE CHERMSIDE practiced law until
1917, when he became county clerk of Charlotte county,
Virginia. He has held this position ever since and lives
at Charlotte Courthouse, Va.

1900

GEorGE P. FisHBURNE was engaged in the private
practice of law in Tacoma, Washington, from 1905 un-
til 1933, except for a period of four years when he was
assistant United States district attorney for the western
district of Washington. In 1918 he was appointed post-
master of Tacoma, which office he still holds.

JoHN RANbDo_peH Henry practices law in Roanoke,
Virginia. He has two daughters and a son.

1901

STEWART L,. Cress, president of final ball in 1901,
lives at 500 South Westmoreland Avenue, Los Angeles,

Calif. He has a daughter and two sons, one of whom is
a graduate of Stanford and the other a graduate of
U. C. L. A. and Southern California.

MaTrHEeW Pace ANDREws is an author and editor,
a highly recognized authority on American history. His
address is 849 Park Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland.

1902

WituiAM ALLAN, class agent for 1902, is a physi-
cian in Charlotte, North Carolina, and was elected to

Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee in 1931. He
has two sons and two daughters.

ELBert W. G. Boocuer lives at 325 W. Maple Ave-
nue, Merchantsville, N. J. In 1925 he took an A.M.
from the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1932 he
received his Ph. D. from that institution. At present, he
is teaching at Rider College in Trenton, N. J.

1903

Cary RANDOLPH BLAIN graduated from the Louis-
ville Presbyterian Seminary in 1910 and held various
pastorates in Kentucky until 1927, when he became su-
perintendent of the Highland Institution, Guerrant, Ken-
tucky, a home mission plant, including a school, orphan-
age, hospital, farm and church. He has twin daughters
nine years old and a baby daughter of fifteen months.

ALDINE CLIFFORD BURKHOLDER has been for twenty
years professor of economics and sociology in the South-
west Texas State Teachers College, San Marcos, Texas.

_ He has a daughter seventeen and a son fifteen.

1904

JAMES ByrnsipE Akers has been with the Southern
Railway since 1904, and is now in charge of maintenance
of way and structures for that system, with offices in
the Southern Railway building, Washington, D. C. His
son, James B., Jr., is a sophomore at Washington and
Lee this year.

WALLER CeEcit Harpy practiced law his first ten
years out of school, then organized the Central Trust
Company. In 1919, he became a member of the New
York Stock Exchange, but retired in 1929, shortly there-
after becoming vice-president of the Kanawha Valley
Bank in Charleston, West Virginia. He reentered the
brokerage business in 1932 as a member of the New
York Stock Exchange from the Winthrop, Mitchell Co.,
but retains his connection in Charleston, where he makes
his home. His son, Waller Cecil, Jr., is a student at
Washington and Lee.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

—

CHARLES GrBsoN MassIg£ was in civil engineering
until 1917, when he went with the farm credit admin-
istration as chief of the appraisal division. Since 1934
he has been chief of the loan division. He married Miss
Louise Rucker and they have one son, C. G., Jr., aged
eleven.

1906

Tuomas BALL is practicing law in Los Angeles,
with offices in the Title Insurance Building. He is un-
married.

GrorGE HENRY CAPERTON, JR., is in the coal bus-
iness, being at present sales agent for the New River
Coal company in western Virginia. He married Miss
Hale Austin, and they have a daughter, Anna Perry
Caperton.

JamMEs R. CASKIE is a member of the law firm of
Caskie and Frost, Lynchburg, Virginia. He is on the
board of trustees of Washington and Lee, and is a
member of the executive committee of the board. Jimmie
is unmarried, in spite of the fact that the Calyx of his
senior year in Washington and Lee predicted that he
would be the first member of the class to be married.

Brent E. CrarkK is consulting engineer in Oklahoma
for the Portland Cement Industry, and lives in Okla-
homa City. B. E., Jr., is seventeen years old, and there
are two daughters, slightly younger.

WALLER RayMonpD Cooper was professor of history
in Palmer College his first two years out of Washing-
ton and Lee. He took an A. M. from Harvard in 1910,
an A. B. from Oxford in 1912, and an LL. B. from the
University of Alabama in 1913. From 1913 to 1917, he
practiced law in Montgomery, Alabama, and during the
World War was an officer in the British Army. Since
1920 he has been professor of history and dean of men
at Southwestern University, Memphis, Tennessee.

FRANK R. CrawForp graduated from Johns Hop-
kins Medical School in 1911 and spent eighteen years
in mission work in China. His present address is Farm-
ville, Virginia.

1907

WILLIAM RANsoM JOHNSON DUNN is in the con-
struction business, specializing in street and highway
paving, with offices in the Chamber of Commerce build-
ing, Birmingham, Alabama. He has two sons and a
daughter.

JoHN WILLIAM FLANNAGAN, JR., practices law in
Bristol, Virginia. He has been a member of Congress
since 1930.

Isaac Paut GASSMAN is a manufacturer in Free-
port, Illinois. He visited Lexington last spring to see

his older son, Loyal, graduated from Washington and
Lee, and says his younger son will enter in a couple
of years.

Joun Lewis Grpps entered the ministry of the Epis.
copal Church in 1910, and since 1919 has been rector
of Emmanuel Church, Staunton, Virginia, chaplain and
instructor in Bible, Stuart Hall, and editor of the South-
western Episcopalian.. He has three daughters and a son.

1908

Grover A. BaTTreN is an M.D. from Johns Hop-
kins, and has been practicing surgery in Honolulu since
1915. He was president of the Hawaii Territorial Med-
ical Association, 1932-33, and is a Fellow of the Amer-
ican College of Surgeons.

JAMES CLIvIE CARPENTER, JR., has been president
of the First National Bank of Clifton Forge, Virginia,
since 1914, when he was elected to that office at the age
of twenty-seven. He has three children, one of whom,
Deverton, is a junior at Washington and Lee.

T. RussELL CATHER was commonwealth’s attorney
of Frederick County, Virginia, from 1916 to 1932; was
elected to the Virginia senate in 1932 and is a member
of that body at present. He married Miss Edna Menear,
and they have two daughters.

GROVER CLEVELAND GABRIEL has been a minister in
the Evangelical Church since 1909, serving churches in
Enola, Pa., York, Pa., Baltimore, Md., Wrightsville,
Pa., Williamsport, Pa., and at present is in Red Lion,
Pa. He has two sons and three daughters.

Harry W. GAssMAN has instructed in mathematics
at the Walnut Hills High school, Cincinnati, Ohio, for
fifteen years. He married Miss Grace Telford and they
have one daughter.

WILLIAM SNEAD GRAHAM attended the University
of Virginia law school after leaving Washington and
Lee. Since that time he has been district manager for
various coal companies, and his office is 604 Citizens
Bank Bldg., Norfolk, Virginia.

1909

LAWRENCE Cart CALDWELL has been practicing law
in Richmond since 1916, with offices at 6 S. 10th St. He
married Miss Mary McFaden, and they have two sons.

RosBertT ROSwELL Brown has been athletic director
of New Mexico Military Institute since 1910, with the
exception of four years at New Mexico State College.
His home is Roswell, New Mexico.

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1910

Rosert GRAHAM AyRES is office manager and pur-
chasing agent for the Logan-Long Company, manu-
facturers of asphalt roofing, etc., in Franklin, Ohio. He
has three sons and a daughter.

Louis WiLson BAKER is engaged in civil and min-
ing engineering, and_ his office is 500 Plain Dealer Build-
ing, Cleveland, Ohio. He married Miss Mary Handley
of St. Albans, West Virginia.

Jor R. BLACKBURN is at present employed by the
state of West Virginia as engineer for the liquor con-
trol commission, with offices in the Capitol building. He
married Miss Elizabeth Price Jones and they have a
son, seventeen, and a daughter, eleven.

JAMES MiLTon (Jim) Carson has been practicing
law in Miami since 1916. Before that time he practiced
in Jacksonville. He has also taught law in the University
of Miami, and is the author of a book on Florida com-
mon law pleading. He has two children, Carol and John
Calhoun.

1912

Byron LeRoy BALLARD is a member of the law firm
of Shields, Silsbee, Ballard and Jennings, of Lansing,
Michigan. He is president of the Lansing Rotary Club
and a director of the Lansing National Bank.

GEoRGE WASHINGTON CLEEK is farming in Bath
County, Virginia, and has held numerous offices in that
county. He has one daughter and four sons.

LLoyp RUTHERFORD CRAIGHILL has taught in sev-
eral schools in China, and is at present missionary in
charge of Nanchang Station, American Church Mission.
He married Miss Marian Walklee Gardner in 1918 and
they have three children.

JoHN LetTcHER Crist is southern sales manager of
the Calco Chemical Company, Inc., with offices at Char-
lotte, N. C. He has one son, John L., Jr., twelve years
old.

Tuomas McPHEETERS GLASGOW was a captain in
the field artillery during the World War. Since that time,
he has been president of Glasgow-Stewart & Co.; pres-
ident, Virginia-Carolina Jobbers; president, Southern
Jobbers; president, Charlotte Auto Merchants Associa-
tion; deputy administrator of N. R. A. His home ad-
dress is 2301 Sherwood Avenue, Charlotte, N. C.

1913

RopertT Burrow, Jr., is practicing law in Bristol,
Tennessee.

JouNn Mitts Newron has been employed as deputy
collector, inspector and agent (examining income tax

returns) in the bureau of internal revenue of the United
States since 1913, with offices in the court house build-
ing, Fort Worth, Texas. In the past few years, he has
been a member of the executive and Davis cup commit-
tees of the United States Lawn Tennis association. He
married Miss Lena Brammer and they have two daugh-
ters and a son.

1914

SAMUEL REpMoND Apams (Sracy) is operating the
DeSoto Hotel in Tampa, Florida. He was an ensign
in the United States Navy from 1916 to 1921, and until
he went to Florida in 1924, was in the real estate bus-
iness in North Carolina.

Harvey Brack Apperson, 511 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia, is at present a member of the state
senate. He married Miss Louise Logan, and they have
two sons.

Henry N. Barker took a law degree from Colum-
bia University in 1921 and is now practicing law in
Bristol, Tennessee. He married Miss Catherine McKin-
ney in 1924 and they have two children, Henry, ten,
and Catherine, seven.

ROGER J. BEAR lives at 3163 Lookout Circle in Cin-
cinnati, and is an executive of the Kroger Baking and
Grocery Company, in the engineering department. He
married Miss Mary J. Moore, of Pulaski, Virginia, and
they have two sons, six and twelve years old.

Lewis BERKELEY Cox is with the Aetna Life In-
surance Company in Hartford, Connecticut. He recent-
ly had an interesting article in Harper’s Magazine on
automobile accidents. He has five children—two boys
and three girls.

R. Lee BEunRING is practicing law in Hunting-
ton, West Virginia. He saw active service in the World
War, having been wounded twice and awarded the Pur-
ple Heart with Oak Leaf and the Silver Star medal.
In 1929 he was a member of the West Virginia legis-
lature, serving on several important committees.

1915

NicHoLtson Barney Apams is professor of Span-
ish, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. He was
with the A. E. F. in France until 1919, after which he
taught in the high school in Lynchburg, Virginia, for
several years. In 1922 he took his Doctor’s degree at
Columbia and followed this with a year’s study in Ma-
drid. He married Miss Agatha Boyd and they have one
daughter.

Rosert P. Apams is a member of the law firm of
Taylor, Adams & Freeman, in Trenton, Tenn. He con-
fesses to being still unmarried,

| 24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

CE

MALVERN S. BARROw has been president of the Bank
of Alberta, Alberta, Va., since 1917. He married Miss
Francis Harris, of Kenbridge, Va., and they have two
sons and a daughter.

JAMES EpwIN BgEar, who has spent several years as
a missionary of the Southern Presbyterian Church in
China, is now teaching at the Union Theological Semi-
nary in Richmond. He married Miss Margaret Irvine
White, and they have two daughters.

l.. NELSON BELL, after receiving his M. D. from the
Medical College of Virginia and interning at the Me-
morial hospital in Richmond, joined the staff of the
General Hospital at Tsingkiangpu, Ku., China. He is
now chief surgeon and administration superintendent of
the hospital. He married Miss Virginia Leftwich and
their four children are Rosa, Ruth, Virginia and Ben-
jamin Clayton.

ARTHUR M. BrrpsALt lives at 711 Bendermere Ave.,
Interlaken, N. J. He has been practicing law since 1919.
Arthur says he never misses an opportunity to see Wash-
ington and Lee worry Princeton on the gridiron.

1916

L. BatrLe BaAGLeEy is in the insurance business in
Fayetteville, Tenn. He married Miss Eula Scott, and
they have five children—Mary, Jack, Sam, Virge and
[,. Battle, Jr.

CHARLES LYNCH CHRISTIAN is living in Lynchburg,
Va. His wife was Miss Jessie Darden, and they have
a son and a daughter.

Rospert MITcHELL Curtis practiced law in Atlanta
two years and one year in Roanoke, and is now assist-
ant business manager of the Times-World Newspaper
corporation, in Roanoke, Va. He was married in 1920
and has a daughter, Nancy.

Norvin CHARLES (CuHick) Evans is with Gimbel
Brothers in New York. During the war he was a lieu-
tenant in the signal corps, and since that time has ad-
vanced steadily in merchandising positions, until his
present position as Merchandise Manager of Gimbel’s.
He is married and has two children.

CARROLL PRATT FINLAYSON is county superintendent
of public instruction in Jackson county, Florida, and
lives in Marianna, Florida. He married Miss Marguer-
ite Folsom, and their three children are Shirley, Car-
roll Pratt, Jr., and John Howard.

1917

EpwarpD E. BAIN, Jr., is traveling for the National
Gypsum Company, Buffalo, N. Y., for the state of

South Carolina.. He lives at 1804 Gervais Street, Co-
lumbia, South Carolina. Is married and has two daugh-
ters.

Dr. GEORGE HoLsrook BARBER is a practicing phy-
sician in Brooklyn and New York City, on the staff of
St. John’s Hospital,—Caledonia Hospital, New York,
attending staff, Kings County Hospital.

Emory PowELt Barrow is representing Bruns-
wick county in the House of Delegates of Virginia. He
lives in Alberta, Virginia. He married Virginia Me-
cartney.

JouNn Morcan BriGutT is business manager of Re.
tail Credit Men’s Association of Chattanooga, Tenn. His
offices are in the Times Building. He is married and
has two daughters.

W. O. BurTNeER is with the department of justice,
Washington, D. C. Is an attorney in the office of the
assistant solicitor general.

Harry VAN MEtTRE CAMPBELL is a member of the
law firm of Blue, Dayton and Campbell, Charleston,
W. Va.

Jackson R. COLLINs is practicing law in New York
City. He is a lecturer on business law at Columbia Uni-
versity. He married Elizabeth Bodine and they have
two children, Ann Elizabeth and Jackson Bosse, Jr.
They live at 212 Midland Ave., Montclair, N. J.

WILLIAM JUNKIN Cox is professor in the depart-
ment of engineering mechanics at Yale.

1918

JAMES C. AMBLER is living at 1630 Monument Ave-
nue, Richmond, Virginia. Since leaving Washington and
Lee, Jimmy has spent eighteen months in France with
the A. E. F., has studied at the University of Vir-
ginia, has been superintendent of schools of Fauquier
county, Virginia, and is now representing Ginn & Com-
pany, educational publishers. In 1933 he married Miss
Elsie Gilliam Carter, and they have a daughter, Jaque-
lin Carter Ambler, born in January of this year.

LESTER D. ARNOLD, 803 S. Stewart St., Winchester,
Virginia, is the father of two boys and two girls. He is
secretary to Senator Harry F. Byrd, sales manager for
his apple business and editorial writer for the Winches-
ter Star, so he must be a fairly busy man.

EpwiN THURMAN Boyp is practicing law in Lynch-
burg, Virginia, after having graduated in law at the
University of Virginia, taken post-graduate work at Co-
lumbia University and taught law at the University of
Virginia. He was also sent to the Virginia legislature

[ 25 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

for several sessions. Thurman was married in 1923, and

has three children, Edwin Thurman, Jr., Betty Kinnier,
and Lucy Wells.

Roy Bryant, who hailed from New Orleans, has
lived in New York since the war. His business is in-
vestment, banking and finance and his address is 930
Chrysler Building. Roy has an enviable war record.
Overseas for two years as captain of the 16th United
States Infantry, he was wounded in action, decorated
with the Croix de Guerre by the French government,
the Military Cross by the British government and re-
ceived citations by Generals Petain, Pershing and Bul-
lard. He was a member of the Byrd Arctic Expedition
in 1926.

JAMES Epwarps CANTRILL is secretary of the Ken-
tucky State Tax Commission at Frankfort, Ky. He mar-
ried Miss Corinne Aswell of Natchitoches, Louisiana,
and they have two children, Virginia Aswell, aged 13,
and James Campbell, aged 12.

1919

SAM ANDERSON, professionally known as Dr. Sam-
uel A. Anderson, Jr., is practicing medicine in Rich-
mond, Virginia. His addrses is 2326 W. Grace Street.
Sam took his medical work at Johns Hopkins and later
served in various hospitals for children. Since the fall
of 1927 he has been on the teaching staff of the Medical
College of Virginia, and practicing pediatrics in that
city. He has a son, Samuel A. III, born in December,
1933—Washington and Lee, class of 1955.

WILLIE F. Barron is with the Rome Coca-Cola
Bottling Co., Rome, Georgia. He is married and has
two children, Virginia Gordon, and W. F., Jr. A public
spirited citizen, as evidenced by his membership in the
Kiwanis club and the board of education of the old
home town. —

“BROWNIE” BrowN—Leonard T., is secretary of
Lott-Merlin, Inc., paper merchants, of Bridgeport,
Conn. He is married and has a daughter, Muriel Keith,
ten years old. Your class agent for the past two years,
and a good one. Brownie is very civic minded and has
countless jobs, without pay. Always present at the New
York alumni meetings and lends his assistance to any
Washington and Lee project.

Sim Curisty—Sim Bush Christy, Jr., was employ-
ed by the Sun Oil Company of Dallas, Texas, from 1919
to 1930, transferred to Philadelphia, and is now district
manager of the Sun Oil Company, Lansing, Michigan.
His address is Box 28, Sun Oil Co., Lansing, Mich-
igan. He has a son, Sim Bush, IV.

SAMUEL HIGINBOTHAM BAKER lives at 1729 Spruce
(St., Philadelphia, Pa. He married Miss Frances Eliz-
abeth Trotter.

“Art” CromwE_t—Arthur M., lives at 4841 Town-
send Ave., Eagle Rock, California. Is married and has
a son twelve years old, who, by the way, plans to become
a student at Washington and Lee. Was in the furniture
manufacturing business from 1923 to 1934; migrated
to California in search of health; is at present factory
representative in Pasadena and Glendale for the Vene-
tian Blind Corporation of Los Angeles.

T. Dewey Davis, practicing medicine with offices
at 608 Professional Building, Richmond, Virginia. Has
a son, Thomas Dewey (Tommy), Jr., “—five years old,
and already has his eye on Washington and Lee.”

1920

EpwarD GEE Batty (Bic Ep) is with the Federal
Land Bank, located in the Central National Bank Build-
ing, Richmond, Va. He married Miss Fannie Louise
Eggleston of Charlotte Courthouse, Virginia, on May
30, and they will make their home at 1600 Monument
Avenue, Richmond.

Henry BAKER is with the Sharon Steel Hoop Co.,
of Sharon, Pa. He is married and has two children—
Reid, aged five, and Ann, aged three.

Harry Burns, who originally hailed from the red
hills of north Georgia, is now making his headquarters
at the Ansley Hotel in Atlanta, and is the southern rep-
resentative for the Belding Hemingway Corticelli Silk
Company, having been in the silk business since 1921.

HoMER STAFFORD Bryant (Buck) is with the Im-
perial Coal Sales Company, in the Lynch Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia. He is married and has one son,
Homer, Jr.

lL, Preston CoLtiins (Pat) writes from Marion,
Va., where he is practicing law, that he knows of little
news he can add to what he gave us last year.

JAMES WALLER CALLISON, of Staunton, Va., is an-
other of our most confirmed bachelors who have mar-
ried during the past year. His wife was Miss Braxton,
of Staunton, a sister of Miss Mary Braxton, who led
junior prom in 1920.

JoHN Drye, who is located at 70 Broadway, New
York, attended the homecoming football game last fall.
John was married in 1926 to-Miss Loraine Caldwell, and
they have two children, Robert and Ann.

JosEpH T. ENcLEBY, Jr., of Roanoke, Virginia, is
practicing law in Roanoke. He is married and has two
children, Joe III and Dudley.

[ 26 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1921

Joun T. BatTEe received his M.D. degree from the
University of Virginia Medical School in 1922. Was at
St. Mary’s free Hospital for Children, New York City
1922; St. Luke’s Hospital, New York City, 1922-25;
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 1926; Univer-
sity of Vienna, 1929. He is a surgeon—741 Francis
Building, Louisville, Kentucky. :

Ropert WALKER COLE is in the general insurance
business in Richmond, Virginia, at 1101 E. Main Street.
He married Mary Kathlyn Davis and they have two
children, Robert W., Jr., age eleven and Mary Kathlyn,
age five.

WiLLt1AM HENRY CONNELLY is practicing law at
Lawrenceville, Virginia.

H. Gray FUNKHOUSER is instructor in mathematics
at Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire.
He married Louise H. Thompson of Lexington and they
have one son, John Gray Funkhouser.

Ropert L. GARNETT lives at 627 Unadilla Street,
Shreveport, La. He is married and has two daughters.

Howarp KEMPER GIBBONS is business manager of
the State Teachers College, Harrisonburg, Virginia. He
married Jessie Diana Conrad and they have three chil-
dren, William Conrad, John Howard and Robert Allen.

Wititi1am A. GIBBons, JR., is mortgage loan in-
spector for the Prudential Insurance Company, inspect-
ing and appraising property in Westchester county and
on Long Island.

Cart E. L. Git is conciliator on the textile labor
relations board, consulting economist. He married El-
frida von Poellnitz.

1922

Witt HAmILTon Barrer? has been principal of the
Narrows high school at Narrows, Virginia, for the past
four years.

Rosert M. (Cuppy) BEar is assistant professor of
education, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. He mar-
ried Gladys M. Center, of Danville, Ky., and they have
one son, Robert M., Jr.

CHARLES MILLER, CAMPBELL is representative in
Kentucky for Cruden Martin Manufacturing Co., of
St. Louis, Mo. He lives at 311 Main Street, Irvine,
Kentucky.

Dayton E. (Runt) Carter is located in Logan,
W. Va., with the Loose Wiles Biscuit Company—i. e.
Sunshine Biscuits, in the capacity of a salesman. This
is his eighth year in the same territory. It is interesting

to note that he married Mary Nowlan with whom he led
the final ball in 1922. He says since 1923 “she has been
leading me.” This is the first couple to be married who
led the final ball together, it is believed.

Joun W. CHILD is with the Gilliam Coal and Coke
Company, Gilliam, W. Va.

1923

Joun B. H. Bonner graduated from the Virginia
Medical College in 1932. Is surgeon and resident phy-
sician to the Virginia Industrial School for Boys, Beau-
mont, Virginia; also general practitioner in Powhatan
county. He married Margaret Susan Moore and they
have a daughter, Margaret Susan.

CrypE H. C. BRraApEN lives in Golden, Colorado, is
married and has two children, Mayme Lee and Robert
Austin.

AUGUSTINE (Gus) BRYAN is employed by the Pru-
dential Insurance Company of America, as mortgage
loan and property inspector. Lives at Lookout Moun-
tain, Chattanooga, Tenn.

TEMPLE OvERTON CAMPBELL practiced law in Rich-
mond, Virginia, and still maintains his law office, but his
special interest is farming. He is married and lives on
R.F.D. 4, Brook Hill, Richmond, Va.

Ropert H. Carr is in the lumber business at Jasper,
Alabama. He is married and has three children.

GERALD EDWARD Corry lives at 59 N. Monterey
St., Mobile, Alabama.

1924

Jos—EpH WiLsForp Hopkins graduated from the Uni-
versity of Mississippi in 1925 with the degree of LL.B.

Since that time has practiced law. Elected to the house

of representatives from Coahoma county in 1937, re-
elected in 1931, and now a candidate for re-election.

Dr. JoseEpH Stuart McMars took his M.D. from
Emory University in 1928, interned at Cincinnati Gen-
eral Hospital 1928, 1929, 1930. General practitioner,
Wyoming, Cincinnati, 1930 to 1935.

Joun D. T. Botp attended Ohio State after leaving
Washington and Lee, and is now practicing law in
Evansville, Indiana.

Ropert BAILEY CAMPBELL, son of the late and be-
loved “Dean Harry,” is a minister of the Presbyterian
church in Winchester, Virginia. Bob lived on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus for seventeen years before enter-
ing as a freshman.

[ 27 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. A. CumMINGs is manager of the C. & P. Telephone
Company in Clarendon, Virginia.

1925

LuTHER LAKIN CopLey is practicing law in Miami,
Florida, with offices in Florida National Bank Bldg. He
married Hilda O. Nettum.

Wix.iAm J. Driver, JR., was in the real estate and
insurance business in Gulfport, Mississippi from 1925 to
1929; has been farming at Osceola, Arkansas, since that
time. He married Peggy Fox and they have two children,
Peggy Jane and Clara Lon.

JoHNn Westey Hocker is practicing medicine in
Chattanooga, Tennessee. The engagement of Miss Helen
Katherine Sloan to Dr. Hocker has recently been
announced.

1926

Ramon Paut Acevepo, from 1926 to 1929, sales
manager General Motors branch office, Panama City;
1929 to 1932, general secretary Panama Association of
Commerce ; 1932, elected for four year term to the mu-
nicipal council of Panama City, and appointed for the
same term as chief of the anticontraband office of Panama.

Paut C. BENSON lives at 303 West 72nd Street,
New York, New York.

Rosert C. BENTLEY, JR., is a counsellor at law,
Peoples Trust Building, Hackensack, New Jersey.

Rocer E. Bium is vice-president of Sol Blum &

Sons, Incorporated, Bakers Supplies and Equipment, at.

1868 Alvason Road, East Cleveland, Ohio.

Wituiam H. Boyer has been practicing law in fed-
eral and state courts of North Carolina, for the past eight
years. He married Hughey Hull and they have one son.

W. Titt Brown is trial justice, Prince William
county, Virginia; secretary-treasurer Federal Savings
and [oan Association of Prince William county; com-
missioner in chancery, circuit court of Prince William
county ; general receiver, circuit court of Prince William
county; attorney, Federal Land Bank of Baltimore ;
Southern Railway Company; Warrenton Production ;
Credit Association, and Federal Savings and Loan As-
sociation of Prince William county.

Ernest L. Cox, Jr., North Carolina state banking
department, liquidating agent and examiner. Married

Rachel Grimsley. Lives in Jacksonville, North Carolina.

1927

Gorpon Exvxtiorr ApAmMs married Harriet Staples
and they have a son, “Teddy.” They live at 100 Central
Ave., Caldwell, New Jersey.

Ricuarp A, (Dick) Batt took his LL. B. at Em-
ory University, Ga. He is practicing in Montgomery,
Alabama.

ANDREW GESSNER Briccs is with the Investors’
Syndicate in the Richmond Trust Building, Richmond,
Va. He married Nan Walker and they have a son, An-
drew, III.

Joun DEWEESE (JACK) CARTER is practicing in
Denton, Maryland.

GEORGE ApoLpHuUS (DoLpH) CLARK, JR., has been
assistant manager of A. G. Spalding & Bros., for the
past five years, 106 Madison, Memphis, Tennessee.

GEORGE DENMAN CONRAD is a member of the law
firm of Conrad & Conrad, of Harrisonburg, Va. He
married Vera Melone.

WitxtiAmM R. Cossy married Lorraine Johnson and
they have three sons, William Randolph, John Marshall
and Richard Keith. They live at 617 W. University
Place, Champaign, III.

Cyrus R. Corron is an attorney-at-law and in the
oil business, offices in the Second National Bank Bldg.,
Houston, Texas. He married Josephine Gowen and they
have a son, Cyrus R., Jr.

Dr. CHARLES DurFFy is practicing in New Bern,
North Carolina.

CHRISTOPHER BryAN (JUNE) Epwarps is with the
Moeschl Edwards Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.

CHARLES TEAKLE SMITH is with the United States
Internal Revenue department in the Philippine Islands.
His address is 423 Hancock Building, Manila, P. I. He
married Edith A. Pontier.

ALEx S. Morrerr graduated from Vanderbilt Med-
ical School in 1932; married Virginia Evans’ Billings,
and on August 20, 1935, sailed for China and will be a
medical missionary of the Southern Presbyterian church,
Kiangyin, Kiangsu, China.

Davin Curry Porter took graduate work at Okla-
homa University, and has been with Treat Orchard Co.,
Esom Hill, Georgia, since 1930. He has been president
of this company since 1933. Curry married Miss Mar-
garet Dean, and has a son, Davis Curry, Jr.

FANNING HEARON is with the Department of the
Interior, and lives at the Embassy Apartments, Wash-
ington, D. C. He and Mrs. Hearon, formerly Miss Bay-
lies Brewster, have an infant daughter, born in Septem-
ber. They have another daughter two years old.

JAmEs R. WILDE was a sophomore in the architec- -

tural college, University of Michigan, last session. Was

[ 28 ]

Kno Sie“ eS a bin toe i yk va ne Te Aaa

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

——

with the “Michigan Friars,” dance orchestra, played on
the S. S. New Yorker for the summer.

1928

Rosert C. BARNETT was at Washington and Lee
only a short time, but is interested in the institution. Af-
ter leaving here he attended Davidson College. He is
now cashier of the Shelby, North Carolina, branch of
the Southern Cotton Oil Company.

WittiaM M. BELt is president of the Bell Lumber
Company, of Shawnee, Oklahoma.

HaroL_p BusoLp was admitted to the New Jersey
bar in 1932, and is practicing law at 301 Main street,
Orange, New Jersey.

Jor CLower, Jr., is minister of the First Presbyter-
ian church, Virginia Beach, Va. He married Mary Mar-
garet Cox.

Percy CoHeEN is a partner in the H. Cohen Furni-
ture Co., Nashville, Tenn.

Irvin W. CuBINE is in the general practice of law
at Martinsville, Virginia. He married Mildred Cameron
and they have two children, Irwin Williams, II, and
Carol Mildred.

WiLt1AM FREDERICK DELPH graduated from the
Medical College of Virginia in 1934. He is practicing
in Pulaski, Virginia. He married Dorothy Steuben
Crawford.

Guy Wacpo DuUNNINGTON is a professor in the Uni-
versity of Illinois, Urbana, III.

Joun Berarp Ecker, Jr., took graduate work at
Harvard in 1928-29. He married Theodora Lawrence,
and is now with the Capitol Traction Company, Wash-
ington, D. C.

1929

“Buck” BAILey has been in the life insurance bus-
iness for the past six years, with the Aetna Life Insur-
ance Co.

FRANKLIN Mu tuiss (Dick) BAKER married Jean
Watkins and they have two children, Jack and Betty.
Four years with the General Outdoor Advertising Co.,
and three years at the M. E. Cunningham Co., as man-
ager of sales.

Puitie R. BECKER lives in Dayton, Ohio, at R. R.
13, Box 444a. He married Mary E. Latta and has two
children, Molly Ann and Philip.

Davis BELL lives in Waynesboro, Va.

WittiAM Tuomas (BILL) Brack, JR., graduated
from the University of Alabama, A. B., took his med-

ical training at Northwestern University Medical School,
M.D., in 1935, interning in Kings County hospital,
Brooklyn, New York. His address is 1234 Peabody
Ave., Brooklyn.

WorTHINGTON BROWN lives at 899 Barksdale Ave.,
Memphis, Tenn.

Rosert CLARK CopENHAVER, JR., has been engaged
in the loose leaf tobacco business in Georgia, Eastern
North Carolina and Southwest Virginia. When not on
tobacco markets has worked in banks, livestock auction
market and weekly newspaper.

PauL E. DauGHeErty finished law at Texas Univer-
sity in 1928 and has been practicing alone since, spec-
ializing in oil and land matters.

1930

EARL Dwicut ARMITAGE has worked for the Un-
derwood Elliott Fisher Company for about six years.
He married Mary Louise Chumlea and they live at 1003
W. Clinch Ave., Knoxville, Tenn.

JAMEs Henry ADAMSON graduated in law from In-
diana University in 1930. He married Margaret Jane
Hutchinson and they have a son, James H., Jr., about
four years old. They live at 2130 College Ave., Terre
Haute, Indiana.

TuHeEoporE L. BAUER studied law at Tulane and is
now practicing in Houston, Texas. His address is 505
Hadley Apt. No. 3, Houston, Texas.

FRANKLIN RUTHERFORD BIGHAM was admitted to
the practice of law in Pennsylvania, May 21, 1934. His
offices are in the First National Bank Bldg., Gettys-
burg, Pa.

Epcar I. Bostwick has been employed by the Trav-
elers Insurance Company in the legal department since
leaving college. He was married June 30, 1934, to Mary
Wilson Turner. They live at 111 N. Hamil Street,
Richmond, Va.

LINCOLN PALMER BrOowN is secretary-treasurer of
Brown and Bolton, Inc., Exchange Building, Memphis,
Tennessee.

W. E. R. (PEcK) Byrne is auditor and statistician
with the West Virginia state tax commission. He mar-
ried Frances Wilson Parrent and they have a daughter,
Francis Marion. Their address is 1422 Quarrier St.,
Charleston, W. Va.

Jutian H. Brack, formerly of Chattanooga, Tenn.,
but now living in Washington, D. C., is soon to be mar-
ried to Miss Charlotte Atlee, of Chattanooga.

[ 29 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Jim CastTNER received his LL.B. degree from St.
Lawrence University, Brooklyn, New York, in 1931. Is
practicing law in New Jersey. He lives at 135 Harrison
street, East Orange, N. J. |

Ropert E. Crapp, Jr., received his LL.B. from
Harvard in 1933. He lives at 303 Bockwell Terrace,
Frederick, Md.

J. M. CountTiss is a member of the firm of J. M.
Countiss & Son, merchants and planters, Elaine, Ark.

GrorcE B. Crappock graduated from Jefferson Med-
ical College in Philadelphia in. June, and will be interning
in Philadelphia for the next two years at the Philadel-
phia General hospital.

JAcK GorpDoNn CraArFT, JR., is manager of the Monterey
Hotel, West Palm Beach, Florida. He is married and
has two children, Rebecca Lawton Craft and Jacquelin
Gordon Craft.

JoHN Preston Davis graduated in June, 1934, from
the University of Pennsylvania Medical school; is now
serving a two-year interneship at the Philadelphia Gen-
eral hospital.

JAMES WILLIAM Davis is managing editor of the
Johnson City Press-Chronicle, Johnson City, Tenn.

Rosert WILLIAM Davis, JR., received his M.S. de-
gree from the University of California in 1932. Has
been in the oil business since that time. His address is
1911 Esperson Building, Houston, Texas.

1931

TuRNER Hearst ApAMs is practicing law in Lub-
bock, Texas. He married Sue Mozelle Gable.

JosEpH C. ARMourR says he is “employed by the
Pennsylvania liquor control board and is studying for
the Episcopal ministry.” He married Clara E. Pearsall
and has a daughter, Violet M. Armour.

Bren Ayars received his LL. B. degree from Mer-
cer University, Macon, Georgia, 1933. Practiced law
in Macon from June, 1933, to December 28, 1933. Now
connected with the legal department of the Farm Credit
Administration of Columbia, Columbia, S. C.

Bos BAER married Mary M. Patterson. They live at
150 Harrison St., East Orange, New Jersey.

W. P. BALrarp is in the wholesale fish and oyster
business in Norfolk, Virginia.

FRANCIS LORAIN BOWMAN is an orchardist in Shen-
andoah county, Virginia. His address is R. R. No. 2,
Mt. Jackson, Va.

Epcar M. Cuurcu has been for five years with the
Bank of Commerce & Trust, Memphis, Tenn., and for
the past two years in the practice of law with Roy
Church, Memphis, Tenn. He married Louise Wills.

JoHNNY FAULKNER, JR., lives at 716 Pecan St., Hel-
ena, Ark.

THOMAS FitzHUGH lives at the Capitol Hill apart-
ments, Little Rock, Ark. He is first assistant attorney
general of the state of Arkansas.

1932

CLAxTon Epmonps ALLEN, JR., was a reporter on
the Paris, France, edition of the Chicago Tribune in
1933. Reporter on the St. Louis Post-Dispatch since
February, 1934.

Ropert WALLACE ANNIN has moved to California.

_ His address is 414 N. Maple Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

Joun Everett ARMSTRONG is a partner with Arm-

strong & Armstrong, real estate, at 485 Madison avenue,
New York City.

Joun W. Barcer is publishing a daily newspaper at
Keyser, W. Va.

WittiAM E. BrEarp was a district manager for Mc-
Fadden Publications, Inc., New York City, for three
years. He is now with the Birmingham Flour Co., Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

CHARLES Hispitt BLAKE is in dramatic work. He
lives in Louisville, Kentucky.

EverETr® Cross, Washington Daily News; police
court reporter; sports department; Washington Com-
munity Center Supervisor. Supervisor District of Co-
lumbia playground department.

RoBERT CHAMPLIN is secretary to the manager of
L. D. Caulk Dental Depot, Newark Branch. His address
is 88 No. Walnut St., East Orange, N. J.

HERBERT G. DOLLAHITE spent the summer as office
manager of a resort hotel in the Wisconsin north woods,
and is now at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago.

ALLEN S. Carr, class agent for 1932, who is prac-
ticing law in Portsmouth, Virginia, was selected as one
of the two Democratic nominees to the House of Dele-
gates from that district and led his nearest opponent by
over 700 votes.

SIDNEY H. NEwMAN, who graduated in 1932, has
since received his Ph. D. degree in psychology at Clarke
University (1935) and is now an instructor in the de-
partment of psychology, Michigan State College, East
Lansing.

[ 30 ]

‘ .
> a
*

he

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1933

HaroL_p ABRAMSON is in the candy business at 171
Winthrop, Mass.

WILLIAM S. BARKER lives at 207 Orange Road,
Montclair, N. J.

SHELBY BLATTERMAN moved to Kentucky to take
up farming in May, 1932. His address is Mayfield, Ken-
tucky.

WILLIAM Bours Bonp is located at the Atlantic Na-
tional Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

IrvinG Buck BrICKEN attended the Harvard law
school and is now engaged in the real estate business at
565 Fifth Avenue, New York.

EDMUND BurRKE, JR., graduated from the law school
of the University of Montana in 1934. He is now an at-
torney-at-law in Bozeman, Montana; county attorney,
Gallatin county, state of Montana, since January 7, 1935.
Is married and has a son, Edmund Burke, III, born
September 22, 1934.

JosEpH C. CoNnNER is editor of The Independent,
weekly newspaper in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania.

FreD Cook, 1933-1934, fellowship at the University
of Tennessee, Master of Science degree, August 24,
1934; 1934-1935, graduate student in chemistry at
Princeton. His home is in Waynesboro, Va.

“Mo” CriGHTON, JR., is a special agent of the Fi-
delity and Deposit Co., 99 John St., New York, N. Y.

TED CurTIs is in the advertising department of the
Richmond News-Leader, Richmond, Virginia.

1934

Tuomas D. ANDERSON is associated with Andrews,
Kelley, Kurth, and Campbell, Attorneys, Gulf Building,
Houston, Texas.

JOHNNY BATTLE, JR., is in the University of Penn-
sylvania Medical School.

THORNTON G. BERRY, JR., is practicing law in Welch,
W. Va. He is a member of the firm of Strother, Curd
and Berry. He married Rita Crockett Brewster.

Barsy Brown is planning to enter the Virginia
Theological Seminary this fall at Alexandria, Va., and

plans to become an Episcopal minister. His home is at
123 Peeke Ave., Kirkwood, Missouri.

FRANK CULLEN BrYANT is in the automobile bus-
iness in Orangeburg, South Carolina.

RoBert LAvy BuFFINGTON is employed by the Mis-
souri Pacific Railway in Little Rock, Ark. He lives in
Lake Village, Ark.

JAMES DUNCAN BurRN is working for a retail credit
company in Washington. His address is 2107 S St.,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

RucE DEVAN, JrR., attended the Aetna Casualty &
Surety Company’s sales training course in Hartford,
Conn., and is now engaged in the insurance business
with his father in Charleston, W. Va.

JoHN WALTER DEXTER is with the Guthrie Daily
Leader, Guthrie, Oklahoma.

WALTER Drxon is with the emergency relief board,
Somerset, Pa.

1935

Dick Banks, since leaving the University, has been
working with the Chesapeake & Ohio railway, at 835
Terminal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio.

Epwarp L,. Bonp, Jr., worked in the chemistry lab-
oratory of McAndrews and Forbes Co., Camden, N. J.,
after leaving college. He is now in the law office of Peas-
lee and Brigham at 501 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

GEORGE SuHorvT is teaching English and coaching
three sports at Macclesfield High school, in North Car-
olina.

1936

Harris Ewart ANDERSON is conducting the Ander-
son Flying Service at the Albert Whitted Airport, St.
Petersburg, Florida. Best mailing address, 211 E. Wil-
son Ave., Girard, Ohio. He married Nedra Jane Bush-

ong.

SAM HALLEY, JR., was in the agricultural college of
the University of Kentucky last year and is running the
family farm and tobacco seed business. Home address,
Meadowthorpe Farm, Lexington, Kentucky.

[ 31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Attention Alumni

THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IT HAS BEEN POSSIBLE TO GET A COAT-OF-ARMS
OF THE UNIVERSITY

Price Postpaid framed $9.00; unframed $1.00

As the supply is limited, send in your order early to

LEE MUSEUM
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

McCRUM’S Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MAanacer
Lexington, Virginia

DRUG STORE

FLOWER SHOP SPECIAL

SODA FOUNTAIN Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

BUS TERMINAL

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
be. ae Sa

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50

, ; ‘ General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To- Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........ Lhe
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

 

 

 

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Geo. W. St. Clair C. R. Brown, Jr., Huston St.Clair
Class of 1891 Class of 1916 ; Class of 1922

 

 

[ 32 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

a a

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
Counsellor-at-Law 1909
Attorney-at-Law
100 William Street Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building New York Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi a Lynchburg, Virginia
a E. C. Caffrey oa
1909
Court House
Philip P. Gibson Hackensack, N. J. John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910
Attorney-at-Law
. a Tucker and Mason
Marcum and Gibson Law Off
aw ces
First National Bank Building Carlton D. Dethlefsen Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Huntington, W. Va. Attorney-at-Law Shreveport, Louisiana
Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.
14 Montgomery Street
® San Francisco, California a
®
Elwood H. Seal Edmund D. Campbell
Seal and Dice Woodruff and Ward 1918-1922
General practice in the courts of Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916 Attorney-at-Law
the ae Columbia and Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930 Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
ederal Departments Akiediaiet kat Campbell
iate I Ta: ialist
am ac apicke sere nis arsed 928 Healey Building Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Atlanta, Georgia Washington, D. C.
a OL aA oewee

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

4 abort
glashonan

Who closely scrutinized
His income tax blank
And then sent it back
With the following notation:
**I have given the matter careful thought
And have decided not to join
The Income Tax.”’

BULA!

Now getting around to cigarettes

‘There are no ifs ands or buts
About Chesterfield
‘Cwo words make everything clear...

Gti

(©) 1935, LicGeTT & Myers TOBACCO Co.

 

