AAlUmNi Magazine

ashington and Lee University

 

Facsimile of the Thomas Nelson Page Medal

Special Report of the
ALUMNI CAMPAIGN

Volume IX SUMMER, 1933 Number 1


THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Vol. IX SUMMER, 1933 No. 1
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924

 

DIRECTORY
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
President, Walter A. McDonald, 10 Vice-President, John Randolph Tucker, ’02
Secretary, H. K. (“Cy”) Young, 717 Treasurer, Stuart Moore, 715
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dozier A. DeVane, ’08 Dr. John W. Claudy, ’09
Edward W. Lee, 713 Herbert Grant Jahncke, ’30
LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS

Appalachian Assocation, Tenn.-Va.—J. M. Barker, Jr., Louisville, Ky.— George Burke, 421 W. Market Street.

Security Investment Company. Memphis, Tenn.—Maynard Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.
Atlanta, Ga.—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. New York—Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
Birmingham, Ala~—-Mark Hanna, First National Bank Bldg. . New Orleans, La.—E. E. Dufour, 5240 Prytania Street.
Charleston, W.Va.—W.W. Donnally, Kanawha Valley Bank Norfolk, Va.—Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building.
Charlotte, N. C.—Phil Howerton, 1100 Dilworthe Rd., W. Pittsburgh, Pa.—C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Cumberland Valley Association, Hagerstown, Md.—C. Wells Philadelphia, Pa. —E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Little, Negley Building. Pocohontas Club, Bluefield, W. Va—A. L. Tyree, Bluefield,
Dallas, Texas—A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building. West Virginia.
Detroit, Mich.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Co. Roanoke, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
Fort Worth, Texas—E. $. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building. Richmond, Va.—Joe Bernie, Morris Plan Bank
Huntington, W. Va.—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank. San Antonio, Texas—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash
Jacksonville, Fla.—R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue. and Door Company.
Lynchburg, Va.—Tom Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank Building. Washington, D. C.—Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Bldg.

 

President's Message

Es issue is composed chiefly of little glimpses of the efforts put forth by the alumni
JT for the University, efforts among all classes of Washington and Lee men, efforts in
every section of the country.

The threads of the narrative sometimes seem tiny and sometimes are whimsical but
the pattern that emerges is one of great loveliness, the warp of loyalty and the woof of hope.

Those who watch closely and anxiously the destiny of the University are convinced
that the records herein suggested are of epoch-making possibilities. Perhaps even when shad-
ows are thick about us, we are watching the dawn of a new day.

Certainly to every man listed in this issue, to all whose names may not appear, to those
who may have been unable to offer more for the present than a sympathetic good-will,—
to all who have shared in this endeavor, the deepest and most sincere thanks of Alma Mater

are tendered.

[1]

 

 

 

N

Poe ee a M A. foe ZI

E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SNAPSHOTS ON ALUMNI DAY

¢ oe
as
a
”no
. &
vo
6's
33
Hy
c
S iF
Mw
= &
vo ev
2 Ss
05
i
TS ty
~aA
ee)
cS &
ioe
eo fw
Q.°o>
3.
oe
83°
N O°
<3
Se 2
~~
gs
Py et oe
oO
pape
ec
05.2
=) we
moe
+
330
oc
53.
ABS
9 ™S
So
wo
e ”
= An
ost
eo
> Oo
s 2
cs
> ie
a.
UO
5 ~~
a3
oS
AS
mA
S3
D te
=
‘a 3
os
tu -
a
bm
As
“~~ Oo
a

[2 ]

E aA A) WA ON SG a ae

H MAGA Z

Alumni at Finals, 1933

Be began with the first Registration at Alum-
eT ni Headquarters, Thursday, June 1st. The first
one in was Roy Nichols of 1927, from Norfolk. The
first fifty that registered on Friday were youngsters re-
turning for the dance. The first of the sedate was
David Burch of 1926, from New York, who hasn’t
missed a Finals since he graduated. Slightly older and
less sedate was Eddie Cameron of 1924, from Durham
and Duke. Scattered were class-agents Lewis Powell
of 1929, from Richmond, Basil Watkins, 1926, from
Lynchburg, Beef Hoffman, 1931, from Norfolk and
with him Major Heth Tyler, class-agent for 1896, who
came to see his son Jimmie get his law degree. Ki Wil-
liams of 1915, came from Waynesboro. Carr and Mac-
Kenzie, law partners in Portsmouth, co-class-agents
of 1932. Walter McDonald of 1910, Dr. John Wm.
Claudy of 1909, Dozier DeVane of 1908, celebrating
the 25th reunion of his class. Dr. Thos. J. Farrar of
1895, Mr. Harrington Waddell of 1893, Dean Douglas
Anderson of 1890, who was also here to receive an hon-
orary degree. Col. Walter Forrester of 1880, Dean
Harry Campbell of 1882, Capt. Greenlee Letcher of
1888.

A number of class-agents planned to come who
were unable at the last minute to do so. John W. Davis
of 1892 was detained by J. P. Morgan. Clarence Sager
of 1912 by business in court. Ben Fiery of 1913, an
associate of Newton D. Baker, by business in Cleve-
land. Pret Holland of 1906 by serious illness in his
family. Morrison Hutcheson of 1902, Harry Car-
michael of 1899 planned to come and could not.

Nearly 200 registered in the alumni office and half
this many escaped.

The Smoker—At Alumni Headquarters, on the
eve of Alumni Day, there were about a hundred and
twenty-five men in town for Finals, who came in dur-
ing the evening for a smoker. 3.2 was refreshing but
the allotment per alumnus not sufficient for more than
refreshment. A cold buffet was served in the hall.
The porch, the office and the big, shabby, comfortable
alumni room were packed but not too packed for com-
fort of conversation and the revival of associations and
memories that went back through fifty years.

The Board Meeting took place Monday morning
at 10:30 and continued until luncheon. The Board re-
convened after the meeting in the afternoon and con-
tinued until time for the Boat Race. ‘Their business
chiefly concerned the details and administration of the
Alumni Campaign. At the second meeting the newly

[3]

elected members, Dr. Claudy of 1909 and Herbert
Jahncke of 1930 were installed.

The Luncheon taxed the limit of Mrs. Cy Young’s
managerial ability and surpassed Cy Young’s optim-
istic estimate. Three hundred and thirty-five were
served two full courses and four hundred or more had
at least one course. It was the largest crowd ever
gathered for this annual event. ‘There were members
of this year’s senior classes present for the first time.
The Dining Hall was decorated and the buffet tables
were set there. Tables on the lawn in the shade of
the trees, on as perfect a day as June and Lexington
combined could achieve, with a wholly representative
social atmosphere, wives, sons, and daughters, faculty,
alumni and their wives and daughters, made the lunch-
eon an important and delightful affair.

The Association Meeting was held in the Library
immediately after the luncheon. Here also was a larg-
er number than ever before came to a meeting. Dr.
Gaines welcomed the alumni back home, said it was
too obvious a thing to do, said it was superfluous but
made a speech, in spite of himself, that was gracious,
polished and charming.

Pete Gibson, 1913, here for the reunion of his
class which he managed, expressed for all alumni the
official welcome to the senior classes into the Associa-
tion. Seniors and former students, upon leaving col-
lege, become members of the Association automatically
without dues. This, in the nature of an induction,
was the first time special notice has been taken of the
seniors in making them members and in charging them
with the obligations that go with the privilege.

Minutes were read and reports were made. Mat
Paxton, 1918, reported on the publications of the As-
sociation which is the Alumni Magazine. This Mag-
azine is published by an economic management on a
very small subscription basis. His recommendation
was to arouse a wide interest among the alumni and a
much larger subscription as a result of it. Following
this recommendation a subscription blank is enclosed
in this special report. If this copy pleases, risk $2.50.

Charles Glasgow, 1909, reported for the athletic
committee, games and contests won and lost. He ex-
pressed optimism for the future and was promptly
supported by Tex Tilson. He read the schedule of
football games, the first on September 23rd with West
Virginia University at Charleston, Homecoming, Nov-
ember 11th, with University of Virginia at Lexington.
A football schedule is printed on the back cover.

a. oo oe ~ te ey en
Stuart Moore, 1915, reported on resolutions. One

was presented and adopted, and is printed in full else-

where. It was on behalf of a revival of the boat clubs,

the annual race and all their traditions.

The nominating committee’s report was made by
John L. Campbell, 1909, who nominated for two va-
cancies on the Alumni Board of Trustees, Dr. John
William Claudy, 1909, of Pennsylvania, and Herbert
Grant Jahncke, 1930, of New Orleans. Both were
unanimously elected. Dr. Claudy is the ranking class-
agent in the Alumni Campaign and Herbert Jahncke
represents for the first time, the younger alumni on
the Board of Trustees.

For membership on the Alumni Council, Charles
S. Glasgow, 1909, Robert S. Hutcheson, 1910, Laur-
ence C. Witten, 1910, were re-elected and L. J. Boxley,
1909, was elected as a new member.

Cy Young, secretary of the Alumni Association,
made an oral report and confined it to an expression
of his enthusiasm for the campaign and the new
administration. He outlined a trip he and Mr. Mc-
Donald had made last summer visiting nearly every
organized Washington and Lee center.

The ‘Treasurer, Stuart Moore, 1915, reported
funds in the treasury and received a loud ovation. He
read receipts and disbursements and a balance on hand
that was received with applause. A detail of this is
given elsewhere in connection with the president’s re-
port on the campaign.

The President’s report and proceedings thereaf-
ter are given in full. After this and Dr. Claudy’s
speech, the entrance of the Rector with a resolution
from the Board of Trustees of the University, Dr.
Gaines’ announcement of the Thomas Nelson Page
medal and its award in 1933 to Walter A. McDonald,
the meeting was adjourned by John Randolph Tucker,
1902, vice-president of the Association and at that mo-
ment in the chair.

The Boat Race and the boat clubs and all their
traditions will be revived in the fall and an account of
next year’s events will be more spirited and interesting
than this year’s. ‘There were a few people, not many,
maybe a hundred, and automobiles on the island were
a disfigurement to that historic landscape. But a little
after six o’clock, the shells came around the curve and
there were feeble noises, slightly reminiscent, like an
echo, of the substance and reality that used to be a boat
race. The Harry Lees won. Miss Annie had made
their flag as she always had and wore their colors and
had to be watched to be kept from falling into the riv-
er which was at least one traditional, correct and his-
toric feature.

Mint grows along that stream, fresh, luxuriant

I

M.A eee. Se

and profuse. The mint was pruned for the benefit of
its growth and bouquets were taken away as souvenirs.
Even this looked like a gesture, bravado without sub-
stance.

Dr. and Mrs. Gaines’ Reception by nine o’clock
was in full swing, Japanese lanterns on that historic
gallery and music drowned by the crowds inside. With
the President of the University and Mrs. Gaines were
the Rector of the University and Mrs. St. Clair, the
President of the Alumni Association and no Mrs. Mc-
Donald, Dr. and Mrs. John Hill Morgan of New
York, Dr. and Mrs. J. C. Robert of Mississippi, Mrs.
Gaines’ parents, Dr. and Mrs. Robert H. Tucker, and
Col. Murray F. Edwards of the Virginia Military In-
stitute. The entire community and all visitors were
received by Dr. and Mrs. Gaines until 10 o’clock when
the Senior-Alumni Ball opened at the Gymnasium.

The Senior-Alumni Ball this year had the tradi-
tional figures, the seniors with their girls, the alumni
with their wives, daughters or partners and the Alum-
ni figure, simple in its order, dignified in its proced-
ure, outnumbered at least the seniors and gave the ball
a reason, more apparent than usual, for its being the
closing feature of Alumni Day.

Commencement on Tuesday, was held in Lee
Chapel. The academic procession came down the
straight path from Washington College to the Chapel,
the graduates leading and forming two lines through
which their elders passed, Headed by Dr. Gaines and
Sir Josiah Stamp in the pink and red robes of his
honors and the familiar Oxford velvet hat. Sir Josiah
Stamp, of London, addressed the graduating classes
and offered them sympathy and apology for the civili-
zation they are emerging into, rather than the conven-
tional congratulations. There was in his tolerance, a
veiled advice and a restrained encouragement in the
suggested guidance he gave for these shattered times.
He spoke as a disillusioned elder to an intelligent youth
and left, because of his honesty, an impression upon
these boys that neither the fatigue of Finals nor the
oppressive atmosphere at that moment, could counter-
act. It was brilliant, scholarly and frank.

One hundred and forty-six graduates received
diplomas. A score of prizes and awards was made.
Eight visitors, including three alumni, received hon-
orary degrees. The list appears elsewhere. The alum-
ni so honored were Dean Douglas S. Anderson, Judge
D. Lawrence Groner, and Rev. A. F. Osburn.

The Final Ball ended Finals and the dawn of
Wednesday, June 7th, closed the session for 1933. At
an hour when all good people should be in bed and the
bad at rest, the Final Ball opened with an elaborate,

[4].

 

H E ae VU MN

a.

ae

an intricate and an unusually beautiful figure. Forty
students, representatives of every phase of campus
and University life, led by George McClure, President
of Finals, with their girls in white gowns and big bou-
quets of red roses, led the Ball to the music of Jan
Garber’s orchestra. The decorations were black, green
and silver, ingenious and becoming. The Gym was a
vast night club, all equipment, walls and ceiling cov-
ered. Gus Morgan, a sophomore, son of J. T. Mor-
gan, 1890, of Memphis had all the clever ideas and
supervised the work of decorating.

I

mn AY &@ aA 2 eR ee Se

By Wednesday noon there were few in the dorm-
itories or in fraternity houses or on the campus. By
Wednesday evening there were only the stragglers who
hate to leave, who say good-bye a dozen times, who
come the next day with excuses, who stay on, for
wherever they go, they will be homesick for this place.
After the Final Ball, a big football player, colossus,
was digging his fists in his eyes and a sympathetic
friend said:

“What you got in your eye?”

“Nothing,” he gulped. “I don’t want to go home.”

The President's Report

REPORT FROM THE PRESIDENT OF WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC., To THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
IN GENERAL MEETING, JUNE 5ruH, 1933.

Y WILL not be a surprise to anybody if I confine

my report and the little I have to say to a brief

history of the Alumni Campaign. I am not un-
concerned with anything that affects the past, the pres-
ent or the future of Washington and Lee, but I am
more particularly concerned with those activities that
bring the alumni into touch with the University. The
campaign we have been engaged in, has had as its
ideal, a closer touch, a warmer feeling, a more informed
point of view toward the University. That is the chief
and more practical of its ideals but there has also been
an unescapable benefit to us all in getting into com-
munication again with each other. On such an occa-
sion as this, there are two channels through which
flow feelings that we do not express elsewhere. One
is the common, indeterminate feeling of affection and
gratitude we all have for the University, the campus,
for Lexington and the environment that is seated here
but carried away from here with us, a part of us for
life. The other is the warmth and loyalty and signifi-
cance of our friendships. At this time, I am sure I
do not presume and I am equally sure I would fail to
represent you, as head of the Alumni Association, if
I did not confess for myself and state for each one
of you, that these emotions are very strong in us and
are effective for the good of the University and for
binding our own ties closer, year by year.

There has always been an Alumni Association but
it has been maintained by the grace of the University
and not by the support of alumni themselves. ‘There
has not been an organization in charge of its own af-
fairs, self-supporting, economically independent, giv-
ing relief to the University instead of accepting main-
tenance from it.

There is now a new policy that has been tested
and found to have strength and purpose in it. The

[5]

history of this change is, as briefly as I can give it
to you, this:

Last fall, five trustees and an enthusiastic alum-
nus, started a fund by the gift of $100 each. This
was the expression of their feeling that the alumni
should do something for themselves, because of the
independence it would create and for the relief it
would give the University and its administration. This
fund started what has since been called the Sponsor-
ship Committee of the Alumni Campaign. These
men were asked to form a special committee to add
to the $600 by gifts of $25 each. The origin of the
campaign therefore lay in the impulse and idea of
these six men. At about the same time, or soon after
these trustees had met and started the fund, Dr. Gaines
wrote me a letter which I turned over to a special com-
mittee or our own board for study, for survey and
report. This committee surveyed the activities and
plans of all colleges and universities whose alumni are
organized to support their own associations and whose
associations appropriate out of their surpluses, sub-
stantial help to their administrations. ‘This careful,
painstaking study and its resulting report and recom-
mendations were published in a folder with Dr. Gaines’
letter.

The first effort in the campaign was to send cop-
ies of this folder to the 100 men selected for the
Special Committee who were asked to sponsor the
general campaign and subscribe $2500 to underwrite
the expenses of reaching almost 7000 alumni. Nearly
$2000 was subscribed which was sufficient automati-
cally to authorize the general campaign and put into
work the plan of the Committee of the Alumni Board
of Trustees.

The plan was to get into touch with every alumnus
by class organization through a class-agent appointed

i Fi 8B xe ee MeN

for each class. ‘The survey had determined that this
method was the simplest, the most practical and effect-
ive by test. The class-agents were appointed, which
means in politer phrase, invited to carry on the class
campaigns and what I have now to report to you and
the success that has been assured, are due to the spon-
taneous and energetic, generous and optimistic work of
those men who, together, have raised nearly $3000 for
the self-support of our Alumni Association.

In terms of money, considering these hard-pressed
times, this is an achievement that we are all grateful
to acknowledge. In other terms, it is impossible to
evaluate what has been accomplished. A _ beginning
has been made. ‘There has been a renewal of interest,
of devotion and a means provided for its expression.
Next year, there will be more contributors to the fund
and more money for the Association and the Uni-
versity. Each year after this the number of those
giving will grow and the amount will grow until this
association, of which we here are only a handful who
happen to be fortunate enough to be here, will function
not for itself alone but for the University in ways that
will be relied upon for its internal economy, or tor

I

we A Gea 2 CU CE

its extension or for its plans for the future. We alum-
ni, for whom the University has existed, who have
been molded by it, who have prospered and been made
happier because of it, will by the force of our devo-
tion and the simple arithmetic of our numbers, give
back into that great reservoir a little each year, so that
its riches and power and influence can be increased
and the contribution it makes to our civilization and
culture can go deeper and be spread farther.

I want to give you the details of what has been
done and I will ask you please to identify yourselves
as I read the classes, year by year, with that portion
which you and your class-agent represent. The re- |
sults are varied and have not yet been analysed and
studied to discover what factors are obvious and sig-
nificant, in controlling the higher responses as well
as responsible for the lower ones. This will be done
so that next year a more level and uniform result can
be expected and achieved. I will give you the results
without comment, except in every case, my Own very

‘ warm and cordial appreciation of the support I have

had and the invaluable help it has been in carrying out
the general campaign plan.

Report of the Alumni Campaign by Classes

As oF Jury 15th, 1933

Class Number Contributors Amount
1934 ] $ 25.00
1933 8 10.00
1932 360 19 57.00
1931 326 23 87.50
1930 290 7 33.00
1929 316 24 124.50
1928 276 10 41.00
1927 323 12 41.50
1926 294 19 64.50
1925 292 7 57.50
1924 260 ap 57.00
1923 206 1 10.00
1922 213 1 2.00
1921 222 7 92.00
1920 196 4 50.00
1919 99 7 47.00
1918 269 1 5.00
a, eA. 181 2 2.00
1917 172 8 51.00
1916 141 9 45.00
1915 135 12 74.00
1914 139 21 156.00
1913 161 16 93.50
1912 201 17 111.00

Class-agent
In Memoriam
Voluntary
H. W. MacKenzie, Jr. ;
Walter E. Hoffman
H. Graham Morison
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
Rhydon C. Latham; Robert F. Howe
Zeb H. Herndon
Basil G. Watkins
John Cooper Morrison, Jr.
W. Goodridge Sale, Jr.
J. W. McCallum
Joe L. Silverstein—costs contributed
T. X. Parsons—costs contributed
Morris H. Hester
L. T. Brown—costs contributed
O. M. Stumpf—costs contributed

Allen S. Carr

Jackson R. Collins—costs contributed
Reuben A. Lewis, Jr.—costs contributed
Ki Williams—costs contributed
Clarence L. Sager—costs contributed
Benj. F. Fiery—costs contributed

Wm. A. Hyman—costs contributed

[6 ]

 

= Hoe eee, Bi chs ee ee glee
Class Number Contributors Amount Class-agent ;
1911 176 12 127.00 A. Dana Hodgdon—costs contributed
1910 172 17 214.50 Walter A. McDonald—costs contributed
1909 140 21 314.00 Dr. John Wm. Claudy—costs contributed
1908 119 21 176.50 Dozier A. DeVane—costs contributed
1907 90 6 51.00 W. L. Lord—costs contributed
1906 101 30 124.15 L,. Pretlow Holland—costs contributed
1905 69 1 50.00 Eli M. Millen
1904 70 2 105.00 Waller C. Hardy—costs contributed
1903 64+ 8 73.50 Dr. Samuel McP. Glasgow—costs contributed
1902 60 6 31.00 Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson—costs contributed
1901 46 9 73.00 Matthew Page Andrews—costs contributed
1900 45 5 65.00 L,. R. Holmes—costs contributed
1899 37 12 114.00 H. St. G. T. Carmichael—costs contributed
1898 30 3 15.00 Richard W. Flournoy—costs contributed
1897 66 12 57.00 F. Petrie Hamilton—costs contributed
1896 67 7 50.00 Stockton Heth Tyler—costs contributed
1895 52 4 35.00 Dr. Thos. J. Farrar
1894 58 4 26.00 James Veech—costs contributed
1893 68 8 69.00 Harrington Waddell—costs contributed
1892 59 4 140.00 John W. Davis—costs contributed
1891 52 2 15.00 John M. Graham—costs contributed
1890 43 7 86.00 Dean Douglas Anderson—costs contributed
1889 32 5 17.00 Wade H. Ellis; Judge Jas. Quarles—costs contrib’d
1888 31 2 25.00 Capt. G. D. Letcher—costs contributed
1887 SS. BR ASV AN 00) OR Col. Walter Forrester
1886 21 1 10.00 Dr. W. McC. White
1885 23 1 2.00 Col. Forrester
1884 19 1 1.00 Col. Forrester
1883 DR enor gyi EE. GD. sg tctennae Col. Forrester
1882 BI oe A> oc aise rem. Rear ee Dean H. D. Campbell
1881 AB iVeiD rs. COUT Rue Col. Forrester
1880 9 1 10.00 Col. Forrester
1879 to 1869 165 6 51.00 John M. Glenn
465 $3464.65

Nore: The notation “costs contributed” was added as an acknowledgment of an important and much apprec-
iated contribution to the campaign. It is incomplete for some campaigns are not yet finished.

Bill Claudy’s Speech

FTER reading the list of classes, Mr. Mc-
4 Donald asked Bill Claudy in the following

preface, to say what a class-agent’s code
should be, in his opinion:

“I am now going to have a phase of the campaign
represented by one who, more than any one connected
with it, is able from a sentimental point of view, to tell
you what it has meant. The benefit of the campaign
has not been confined to those who have been fortunate
Cnough to contribute money. There are hundreds who
did not, who could not, who have made a contribution

wholly in the spirit of the revival we have caused, by
the expression through their class-agents of a deep and
abiding interest in the University and of loyalty to each
other and their memories of other days. _ Bill Claudy
of the class of 1909 is the ranking class-agent in the
awakening of a wider interest and in securing, in a
way that defies analysis, the general response and the
particular confession of the emotional relationship we
all have but are inarticulate in finding outlets for. He
can tell you how he himself has felt in doing what he
did and how others have felt in their response. If I

[7 ]

2: oe ae A. hl, AN

I

MA fee ZZ Lo

 

summarize or formulate our success, it would be in a
definition of what Bill Claudy has done and I am going
to leave that to him and with that, this year’s chapter
in the history of the Alumni Association closes.”

Dr. Claudy responded:

“It has been rather difficult for me to analyse
exactly what did take place in the class of 1909. All
in all, I think the class of 1909 was an awfully good
class for this particular experiment. There is no
doubt but what a great deal can be done by making
your letters to the men very personal. No letter that
went out from my office was written except in a very
personal way. I tried to find some point: of contact
that had probably been forgotten over the years, but
which I could revive and touch upon. I do not believe
that there was any particular intellectual appeal to the
men. I think it was primarily emotional and senti-
mental. I believe we can stand a little sentiment to-
day after these hard-boiled times.

“As I got letters back I discovered this: That a
great many of the men were hungry for some word
from some individual in the university who had a per-
sonal interest in him. ‘The letters that came back, if
they were ever published would show that this is true.
In some instances men had succeeded; in others they
had succeeded and failed; and in other instances they
were trying to struggle out of some personal problem
or discouragement. Every letter that came back I
answered personally. I think I was fortunate in hav-
ing unlimited clerical help. Some of you may not
know it, but I am at present héad of a penal institu-
tion of over a thousand men, many of whom have had
that sort of experience, and these men would come
and work at the office at night to answer my letters.
These convicts took a great interest in the task that I
was trying to do and were continually asking me if I
had heard from this one or that one of the various
fellows.

“I think the motives that prompted me were the
motives that should prompt all of us to do all we can.

“First of all, I think that we owe it to this insti-
tution to have a sustained interest in everything that
the institution is doing and is attempting to do. I
have never picked up a newspaper since the year of
1909 that mentioned the school, whether it was athletic
news or mention of a visiting speaker, but what I was
interested. And I can’t understand any man who has
lived in this place and absorbed its ideals who can fail
to be interested in everything that the university is at-
tempting to do through the years.

“In the second place, I think the thing that
prompted me was a certain feeling of undiminishing
loyalty. I believe that is a thing that increases with
the years if you have imbibed it at first.

[8]

“The third thing is this: I believe I owe to this
university a debt that I can never possibly discharge
in dollars and cents and that anything I put into the
task that is given me to do in the interest of this place
is helping me to discharge in a very small measure the
debt which I owe for the appreciation it has given me
for all manner of things in life.

“T think when I have said this, I have said all;
for it is all that is in my heart.”

From the Board of Trustees

After Dr. Claudy’s speech, the Rector of the Uni-
versity, Mr. George Walker St. Clair, came into the
meeting with a resolution which he presented and read.

“Reso_veD: That the Board of Trustees
hereby expresses its deep gratitude to President
Walter A. McDonald, to the alumni board of
trustees, to the agents of the various classes of
alumni, and to all other alumni whose generous
support has prompted the special effort to de-
velop a new understanding and spirit of help-
fulness on the part of the alumni. The Board
of Trustees of the University notes with deep
satisfaction the results which have followed this
movement and believes that those alumni who
have labored for this cause have written a sig-
nificant and encouraging chapter in the history
of Washington and Lee.”

The Thomas Nelson Page Medal

The vice-president of the Association, Mr. John
Randolph Tucker, 1902, asked for the chair in order
that Dr. Gaines might appear before the meeting and
present to the president, the Thomas Nelson Page
Medal. Dr. Gaines said:

“My remarks are very brief. The Board of Trus-
tees of Washington and Lee University decided at the
beginning of this year that in collaboration with of-
ficials of the University it would award each year a
medal to that alumnus who had been conspicuous for
services in the interests of the University. It was de-
cided to name this medal after an alumnus of great
distinction, and after deliberation we have decided to
name it for an alumnus who was a student here under
Robert E. Lee and who more than any I know distin-
guished himself in letters and in diplomacy and in the
field of religion, Mr. Thomas Nelson Page.

“One side of the medal carries the likeness of this
great man and the legend ‘Beloved Son of Washing-
ton and Lee, Thomas Nelson Page, 1853-1922;’ and
on the other side, ‘The Thomas Nelson Page Medal

 

,T H BE re to M EN

presented annually to an alumnus of Washington and
t.ee for his devotion and service to the University.’
“T have been asked to read this statement :

Citation of Award of Thomas Nelson Page Medal
June 5, 1933
Walter A. McDonald, 1910

‘‘Incarnating in his personality the charm of
manner, poise of judgment and nobility of char-
acter which are the ideals of Washington and
Lee, he has throughout a busy career reflected
honor upon the Alma Mater which claims him.

‘Particularly within the past year he has
dedicated the power of his resolution and the
richness of his influence to the cause of the Uni-
versity. As president of the general association,
he has energized every feature of alumni effort;
and in promoting the specific program for a
more definite interest and support, he has work-
ed with consistent devotion, with patience, and
with tireless faith.

“Bringing to the former students of
Washington and Lee a new interpretation of the
values conferred by the University and of the
obligations implied by these benefits, he has
strengthened the beautiful bond between the
academic mother and her sons.”

Resolution

To the President of the University and the
Executive Committee of the Faculty:

The following resolution was proposed by the
Board of Trustees of the Alumni Association to the
Association in general meeting on Monday, the 5th of
June, 1933, and was unanimously adopted:

That the University and the student body in the
last few years have suffered the loss of a feature in
campus life, through gradual neglect and indifference
to the annual Boat Race during Finals.

That the Boat Clubs and the Boat Races are rich
in tradition and in color and offer an almost unique
athletic and social feature in Southern colleges.

That interest be revived next autumn, when col-
lege opens, by appointing a special committee from
the executives of the student body, members of the
two boat clubs and the Alumni Secretary, to carry on
a campaign in the interest of boating by soliciting
membership in one club or the other with a view to
enlisting as high a percentage of the student body and
members of the faculty as possible.

That a nominal fee (25 cents is sufficient) be col-
lected and turned in to the treasurers of the clubs and a
roster of membership be kept so that a fund sufficient

I

ee iy OR, SE a ae

to carry the very small expense of the clubs during
spring practice and the races at Finals will be created.

That during the special week’s campaign, those
members joining, be given club buttons and asked to
wear them so that identification can be made and proof
given of actual interest in the revival of these clubs.

That the Board of ‘Trustees of the Alumni As-
sociation, after investigation and due thought, feel
justified in asking for special effort and an organized
campaign before the Boat Clubs and their traditions
and the contribution they can make in the peculiar
and attractive social color they lend, die beyond the
possibility of revival.

H. K. Young, Secretary
The Board of Trustees

June 5, 1933 Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

An Unusual Analysis

THE CLASS-AGENT for the class of 1899, made for
his own benefit, an analysis of his class response that
has unusual interest. It is published for whatever
special interest other class-agents or members of the
class of 1899 might discover in it.

 

 

Nimaber: im Clase Oh AGO iicd.emessicerapanstipes 37
Number :Reported:. Beid voids. .ssisti- dhs sinsecsbii- cheek 2
Ninehet:: Revliitat sisi ditbiiagih ded /cccdncitesasa 22.
Number »Contethettinta 3. 0:3..37e tiicidtises<.sseos dfvsstsahes 12
Total Percentage of Class Replying.......0..0.000000...... 63%
Total Percentage of Class Contributing.................. 34%
Average Contribution per Replier....000000000000...... $5.18
Average Contribution per Contributor.................... 9.50
Average Contribution per Member of Class.......... 3.26
Ag ee a E

se *« $2 6 > 8as CEB

Profession 4 oe z == e c= z<2

2 50485 <S <5 s&s

ee s.. 12 7 3 + 2 $20.00 $10.00 17.5%
Executive ...... 8 2 3 3 60.00 20.00 526%
Merchant ........ Delve A: jie sn heeds ee IN
Minister.......... 2 2 15.00 7.50 13.2%
Engineer ........ Siivol 2 800 400 7.0%
Real Estate .... 1 Be re ae
Insurance ...... ] et On ie east go cae | ee
WOOF hii ons: l 1 500 500 44%
Professor ...... Bh prised: Sab ck J max acco b+ sean aaa
Army Officer. 1 .......... 1. .5.00 500. 44%
TOPAOOLTINL A ne i he ee
CGR). wiyncais: Bes hci ci asics oka Migs can co he eae
Totals........ 37. 13 10 12 114.00 9.50 100%

rad

ae ai, 2 ee” ees

I

M.A eee OL ee

 

THE CREED OF AN ALUMNUS

My dear Doctor Farrar: With your letter before me I
am thinking of the Prodigal Son of old—not so much
that I have wasted the endowments received from my
Alma Mater, the fostering mother of my student days,
as that in returning to her house, so to speak, I am
bringing little to offer her in testimony of my appreci-
ation of the loving care with which she prepared me
for my adventures in “far countries” and the wealth
of inspiration with which she started me on my way.

Nearly forty years have slipped by since the por-
tals of Washington and Lee opened outwardly to admit
me into the wider world. But how short a time is even
that to memory leaping back to the most glorious per-
iod of my life! And even now I seem once more to be
treading her sacred halls, walking beneath her enchant-
ed trees, breathing the exalted atmosphere that is her
very soul. There are those who say they owe nothing
to their Alma Mater, even as there are those who deny
their debt to loving parents; but to me the mere men-
tion of Washington and Lee has always transported
me back to the early nineties—to the morning of life,
when hopes were undimmed by shadows of disappoint-
ments, when courage was unimpaired by recollection
of failures, when friendships were untarnished by
thoughts of selfish gain, when love was mysterious and
holy, untouched by passion’s scorching flame, when life
its very self was a thing of perfect beauty and joyous-
ness unalloyed, and the whole world was mine, to mold
according to my buoyant heart’s desire. So, if only
because of her association with this hey-day of young
manhood’s awakening, how can I say that I owe noth-
ing of love, honor, and reverence to my Alma Mater.
And when to this is added the thoroughness with which
she prepared me for life’s great adventure, the patience
with which she sought to correct my shortcomings, and
the inspiration and ideals with which she endowed me,
the debt becomes so great that I can hope to repay it on-
ly by some sort of dedication of myself to her service.

I realize, my dear Doctor Farrar, that this expres-
sion of my regard for Washington and Lee is so be-
lated that it may seem insincere. But such is not the
case. Rather is it a flower that only time could bring
to blossom. It is like love and appreciation of parents
of the flesh and blood, which is seldom fully realized
until father and mother are gone and one himself is
passing on into the increasing years. How often have
I bewailed the fact that my parents no longer lived to
share whatever of honor, and fame, and fortune that
have been mine or to comfort and encourage me in
times of stress and pain! But my Alma Mater still
lives, and verily it seems strange that I have so long
failed to realize the benefits and the joys that would

have been mine if I had only kept in closer touch.
And so now, as I write, I am experiencing a sense of
awe, as though I were under the spell of a miraculous
resurrection; and it is with this same feeling that I
find myself trying to formulate a creed that shall rule
me from this time on—a creed that only long hours
of inspired brooding could bring to perfection, but
which, nevertheless I shall attempt to give to you even
as it struggles in the throes of its birth. Here it is.
Take it and pass it on, if you think it worthy, and per-
haps others may amend it so that finally it will be-
come as it really should be.

1. After God and the parents of my blood, I owe
most of the good that is in me and is mine to my Alma
Mater.

2. If, therefore, I have neglected her, I will now
arise and go to her and say unto her: “Mother, I have
sinned against thee and am no more worthy to be thy
son. Make me as one of thy hired servants.’ But I
know that she will receive me even as the father of old
welcomed his prodigal son, and all her children will
rejoice that he who was lost is found again.

3. If of earthly substance I have aught to give
for the benefit of others, I will commit its distribution
to her, well knowing that where I might reach one or
two with my beneficences, she will reach thousands.
And if nothing of wealth can I give, then will I give
of my thoughts and conversations—her name shall live
upon my lips, so that her fame will spread to the far
horizons and the lantern she carries in her hand will
light up the dark places of the world.

4. If ever ill report of her should reach my un-
willing ears, I will not criticize or blame. I will say to
her only: “Mother, is this the path you taught me to
tread?” And thus I may, in some small measure, re-
pay the debt I owe to her.

5. Never again will I forget that she is mine, to
honor, to foster, to use as the most efficient agent at
my command to assist me in my strivings for the good
of my fellow men.

6. Never again will I forget that within her por-
tals I will receive the heartiest welcome there is for
me in all the world, and that there I will meet once
more friends such as nowhere else could I find.

7. And, finally, never will I cease to pray that God
will revive in the hearts of all her children the love
for her that has been revived in mine, to the end that,
yearly, there will be such a mighty homecoming as
never before has been seen. For in such a multitude
of them that love her would she find strength irresist-
ible and the honor and the glory she so richly deserves.

HERBERT BouLpDIN HAWES

[ 10 ]

E A ae ae. IN

I

Bae Ai ee A ae es ee

Actions and Reactions of a Class-agent

By 1. Prertow Horranp, 1906

HAVE always been just a little queer, and in
recent years the habit seems to be growing on
me. When Walter McDonald asked me to be

class-agent, true to my ideas, ideals and theory of life
up to that time, the very thought of doing what the job
seemed to demand was repugnant to me. But, pity
is akin to love, and although I have not had much
success in Cupid’s realm, I am full of pity, and in
spite of “the slings and arrows of outrageous for-
tune,” I still have a tender heart, and I felt so sorry
for Walter. He was such a nice fellow and he thought
he was doing such a good work, and it was up to his
old college friends to humor him in this idea. He had
been a good friend to me, I had been his guest in his
home town, and I could not be the one to turn him
down. Yes, I, also, have a conscience and a sense of
obligation, and right after my wife and children, they
give me more trouble and genuine concern than any
two things in the world. And so I accepted. And
straightway the old order changeth.

I began to read down the list of names of my
classmates. At first, the names fell on barren ground.
There was no coordination between the sound of the
names and the memory of other days. Then I leaned
back in my chair and closed my eyes, and in that state
of semi-consciousness between waking and sleeping.
| began gradually to visualize the personalities con-
jured up by the list of names. Finally out of the fog
and haze of this semi-consciousness, the old memor-
ies began to come back and to form themselves into
definite beings. Out of the haze of uncertainty the
figures stepped one by one, and marched down the
well-trodden avenue of the memory of a by-gone era.
There was dapper “Kid” Steves, stalwart Kelly Trim-
ble, Jack Eggleston and “Buck” Spindle, the tennis
twins, dignified Brannon Hubbard, suave John Pilking-
ton, dependable “Tubby” Stone, laughing, lovable
“Dave” Pipes, and many, many others that my space
does not give me time to mention. It had merely
strengthened and refined their faces as the years have
a way of doing, and had made them feel a little nearer
and a little closer, as things will do that we have lived
with for a long while. Then I woke up.

| must get in touch with these men again. The
memories that touched their lives and mine were too
Precious to disintegrate from lack of use. ‘The rec-
ollections must all be revived. ‘The initial letter must
be composed and compiled immediately. ‘Time was
of the essence. To be perfectly frank, there was little

time left when Walter McDonald offered me the job,
because, between you and me, I believe that he had
asked several other fellows to do it before he asked
me. They had turned him down and I was the last re-
sort. But I am not vain, and so, as I said before, I ac-
cepted. The letters were finally written, but before they
were finally gotten off, there was still more work to do.

It was necessary to write those personal—often
impersonal postscripts, because in spite of the vis-
ualization siesta above described, there is something
intangible but sure that the years do to the memory.
It was not a question of how well I thought I knew
the men I was postscripting, but how well they thought
they knew me. I must not only reincarnate the per-
sonality of each classmate, but I must try to re-sense
his thought, or memory of me, and write a postscript
to him accordingly.

First, I had to look him up and get his locality and
wave length, and try to contact his mental attitude by
his wave length and radio station. But, in the great
majority of cases, the night I was working on his post-
script was not the night he was broadcasting. Oh!
yes, there were thousands of other troubles as well,
but if you can sense to a small degree the time I had
in accomplishing the above, you have some general
idea of one of the simplest of my difficulties, for these
postscripts had to be written. The personal touch had
to be there, and like practically everything else in life,
I finally had to decide it all myself, without advice—
the formality or informality, the aloofness or the in-
timacy with which to write those self-same postscripts
so that they would not offend, but would warm the
cockles of the heart and make the recipients full of the
spirit of generosity.

Then came that famous bulletin from our class
president. He was in Lexington and it was spring-
time. ‘The sun was shining, the days were rare, the
fields were fair, and all the world in Lexington worked
without a care. I do not know what he thought he
meant, but I am a Virginian, and what I know he
meant was:

“The roses nowhere bloom so white
As in Virginia,
The sunshine nowhere shines so bright
As in Virginia,

The birds sing nowhere quite so sweet
And nowhere hearts so lightly beat,
For Heaven and Earth both seem to meet

Down in Virginia,”

[11 ]

tT. H 8 A ae: MON

I

MAS See, Ee

 

Of course, I know you men away from Virginia are
not going to admit it, but you know it is true, even
though you may say in high disgust

“Wouldn’t you know one of those
D Virginians would say that?”

 

But that was not all there was in the bulletin.
It was all about the spell of House Mountain, and
how it looks when the fleecy white clouds just touch
its squared off top in the springtime after a rain, and

how the cleansing rain and the foamy clouds bring out

the greenness of it, and the beauty of it, and the maj-
esty of it. And then, how it looks when we see it
vaguely through the mist, or snow covered in winter,
or snow capped between seasons, or in its full strength
and power at midday in summertime, or almost just a
black outline silhoutted against the radiance of a rosy
sky and a setting sun. And how it seems to dominate
our college life and our college recollections, and how
some of its mighty strength seems to impregnate our
love for the old place.

Funny thing about House Mountain. I believe
it is a wizard. I believe it bewitches us with its
changing moods and ever present beauty. I believe
that way down in its vital parts there is a vast magnet,
and that all the time we are in college we are being
charged with this magnetic quality until we become
so vitalized with its magnetism that we never recover.
It may leave us for a time, or so we think, but al-
ways the thought of it remagnetizes us and recharges
us with its vital spark so that always the thought of
it makes us begin to feel the pull of its great magnet
until we respond thereto, and the vale of Lexington
and the semi-circle of white columns surrounding the
green half-bowl of the campus are spread out before
us. It is like champagne. We drink it for an entire
evening and are merely pleasantly exhilarated, but
friend classmate, drink a glass of water the morning
after and you're drunk, dear fellow, you're drunk.
Yes, that is what has happened to me all over again.
I have taken another drink of water after reading that
darn Springtime—House Mountain bulletin, and I am
off again. It has gotten me off my equilibrium. Even
my methodical old bachelorhood proclivities do not
seem to keep me from thinking of roses and forget-
me-nots and honeysuckles and mock oranges and heli-
otrope, and other sweet smelling posies. ‘‘Discon-
certing,”” you say. “Decidedly,” say I. Anyway, I
finally got the postscripts off, and I hope they pleased.

Certainly the responses did. There were just a
few envelopes whose material enclosures I would like
to have enlarged, but all in all, the class-agent was
mightily pleased. In fact, he was so very much delight-

ed and gratified that that same old conscience forced
him to sit down and write the alumni president and
thank him in as nice a way as he could for making him
class-agent. He had to tell the said president what a
privilege it had been, and how much he had enjoyed
doing it, and how it had recharged and revitalized
and reimpregnated and reincarnated him with the spirit
of old Washington and Lee, and how much he had en-
joyed talking with the old fellows, even at long distance,
and how interesting the lives of some of them had been,
and the pleasure he had gotten from recontacting them.
And fellow classmates, to show you how much he had
changed since that first letter was received from the
alumni president offering him the job, he meant exact-
ly what he had said from the very bottom of his hard-
ened, and abused, and callous old heart.

Yes, there were a few follow-up letters, but they
were merely routine. The ice was broken with the
first letters, and when they were written and gotten off,
the major work was done. The main plot of the
story was finished. ‘They were merely the aftermath
of one of the most interesting and delightful bits of
work that I have ever done, which turned out to be
one of the most illuminating studies of fine character
I have ever experienced, and best of all, from my
point of view, one of the bits of work from which I
feel that I have drawn one of the largest dividends in
worth while life and living that I have ever come in
contact with. And so boys, I thank you all and you
know I am thankful, for dividends are certainly scarce
in these depression days.

HAVE YOU A CALYX OF THE YEAR
YOU GRADUATED?

A NUMBER of the class-agents have suffered
through moving or fire or indeterminate reasons, the
loss of their copies of the Calyx of the year they grad-
uated. The following numbers of the Calyx are ad-
vertised as wanted by the class-agents of these years,
and anyone who reads this Magazine and has a copy
of the Calyx of the years listed below, would oblige
everybody very much if he will communicate with Cy
Young, Alumni Secretary, Lexington, Va., who will
act as the agent for the collection and re-forwarding of
these copies to the class-agents who need them. They
can be borrowed and will be returned, if necessary, or
if the gift could be made to Alumni Headquarters as
part of the equipment that ‘is needed for the conduct
of the class campaigns next year, that gift will be very
much appreciated.

‘26, ’25, ’23, °19, ’18, ’11, ’09, ’08, 06, ’05, 04, ’03,
00, ’99, ’98, ’97, ’96, 95.

[ 12 ]

 

 

Aa wa POON

I

es eG Me i, a ee

Death of Dr. D. B. Easter

=>... ALUMNI of Washington and Lee will be

vi erieved to learn of the death of Professor De la
Warr Benjamin Faster in Baltimore on July 6. His
death was due to heart trouble, an attack of which he
had suffered two years ago, but from which he had suf-
ficiently recovered to continue his
teaching.

Dr. Easter was born October 9,
1867, in Baltimore, where he spent
his boyhood. Being a rather deli-
cate child, he was taught by tutors
until he entered Randolph-Macon
College at the age of fifteen. There
the evidences of his brilliant intel-
lect and his unusual ability as a
linguist induced the faculty to put
him to teaching even before he
completed his undergraduate course.
From 1886 to 1891, he continued
as an instructor and student, receiv-
ing the A. M. degree that year Af-
ter two more years there, devoted
entirely to teaching, he became ad-
junct professor of modern languages
at Wofford College for two years,
1893-1895. He then returned to
Randolph-Macon as adjunct pro-
fessor in Greek and German.

In 1900 he was appointed Hopkins scholar and be-
gan graduate study at Johns Hopkins University in
Romance languages. He studied in France in 1903,
returned to Johns Hopkins, was instructor there in
charge of undergraduate French during the year 1904-
1905, and received the Ph. D. degree in 1905. He was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa by the Johns Hopkins
chapter.

He was then re-called to his Alma Mater as pro-
fessor of modern languages. ‘The summer of 1906 he
Studied again in France. That year he was married
to Sarah Bayne (Ayres) Sheppard.

In 1910 he was called to Washington and Lee as
head of the department of Romance languages. Un-
dertaking his work here in the ripeness of his exper-
lence and the fullness of his scholarship, he strove
Constantly to raise the standards and the. intellectual
culture of the college. In 1920 he was appointed as-
sistant dean and continued in that office until two years
“g0, when failing health necessitated his resigning it.

_ After the Washington and Lee Commencement
this year, Dr. Easter with Mrs. Easter went to Ran-

 

dolph-Macon to deliver the Phi Beta Kappa address
and remained through a happy Commencement renew-
ing old associations. From Ashland they went to Bal-
timore for a visit. ‘There he was stricken with a re-
turn of his heart trouble, and after an illness of about
two weeks, he died. He was buried
in the family lot in Green Mount
Cemetery, Baltimore.

Dr. Easter’s former students
will agree that no formal sketch of
him can do him justice, or ade-
quately represent their teacher and
friend. As one of his colleagues
remarked after his death, “Cutie,”
as he was affectionately known,
“was an institution himself.” Un-
able to be very active physically, he
devoted himself to the enrichment
of his mind, and the students—
and there were many—who enjoyed
the privilege of a visit with him in
his study, surrounded by his books,
came away with an unforgettable
impression of his lovable and sym-
pathetic nature and the richness of
his mind. His genial humor never
induced him to relax the high
standards of scholarship that he
required from his students. Some of them will recall
the ingenuous smile with which he could announce to
a student that he had made an “F.”

Dr. Easter kept to the end his enthusiastic dispo-
sition and gave undivided loyalty to any organization
of which he was a member. Probably his greatest en-
thusiasms were for Phi Beta Kappa, the Fortnightly
Club of Lexington, and the Society of the Cincinnati.
His pipe, his hat, and his engaging personality lent
color to the campus which we shall sadly miss. His
stimulating influence we shall gratefully retain.

THIS NUMBER OF THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE is edited in the office of
the Alumni Secretary. This number is the work of
three people only: the editor who wrote it; his secre-
tary, Miss Mary Barclay, who typed it; and Harold
Lauck who printed it. Mr. Lauck is head of the print-
ing department of the Lee School of Journalism. He
set the type, printed the sheets and bound them. 6256
copies were sent to the complete alumni list.

[ 13 ]

E A Sa Oo: Mem

I

M A Geoaew Z I NS

The Most Valuable Cee Alumni Can Render

IN Tuts letter is evaluated a service, ranked above
all others in the power of the alumni.

July 17, 1933
Mr. Ki Williams, Waynesboro, Va.
Dear Ki:

Your success in bringing to life the class of °15
in the alumni campaign has been a matter of very deep
gratification to myself as a member of that illustrious
body, and you are to be congratulated. 1 am keenly
interested in the revival of activity among alumni of
Washington and Lee and expect this movement to
achieve lasting importance in the future of the Uni-
versity.

It was readily anticipated that, under existing con-
ditions, the sudden raising of any large fund was not
to be expected; but the response so far has been un-
expectedly encouraging, and the contacts made, if kept

alive, should insure the continued growth and the firm’

establishment of a worth while alumni organization.

Lacking the ability to make substantial gifts, there
is a form of contribution available to every alumnus,
one which has not received all the attention it deserves,
and which is of value above almost any other service
that may be rendered. This is the opportunity to seek
out and send to Washington and Lee the high type of
prospective student which has always characterized this
University and without which its claim to distinction
would be one of name alone.

We like to feel that Washington and Lee offers a
superior product, and this is possible only if the mater-
ial is worthy of the process. Lacking large endow-
ments of money, this institution must rely for its prop-
er function upon the quality and quantity of its stu-
dent body, and there is no service the average alumnus
may offer which can transcend in importance the ac-

complishment of guiding the footsteps of a young man
of high type to this campus. ‘The benefits to the Uni-
versity, the student and the alumnus are incalculable,
and I should like to commend this as a worthy field of
effort on the part of our class, as well as for every
alumnus. For the welfare of the University and of
the Alumni Association, funds are unquestionably nec-
essary but men who will be loyal as students and alum-
ni are absolutely essential.

In the continuance of alumni activities, a wide-
spread effort to accomplish such a purpose will bring
rich rewards.

With kindest personal regards and best wishes,

Sincerely,
Stuart Moork

HONORARY DEGREES GIVEN
AT COMMENCEMENT

June 6, 1933

LL. D.—Sir Josiah Charles Stamp, London, England; ~
Judge D. Lawrence Groner,’92, Washington, D. C

Litt. D—Ernest T. Thompson, Professor Ecclesiasti- 4
cal History, Union Theological Seminary, Rich- ~
mond, Va.

Sc. D.—Douglas S. Anderson, 90, Dean School of En-
gineering, Tulane University, New Orleans, La.;
John Lloyd Newcomb, Acting President, Univer-
sity of Virginia.

D. D.—Herbert S. Osburn, ’04, Gloucester, Va., Epis-
copal Clergyman; F. Campbell Symonds, First
Presbyterian Church, Lynchburg, Va.; Kenneth ie
Foreman, Professor of Philosophy and _ Bible,
Davidson College, N. C.

John Hill Morgan, LL. D. degree as of April 12, 1932.

 

General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid......

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7x9, prepaid .... $1.50
3.00

Money order or check should accompany order

Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid............
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7x9, prepaid..........

 

 

[ 14 ]

 

 

 

eee ty MeN Wok Se aS eS

Bulletins

*ALLEN DaLeé Symonps, 1040 Judson Ave., Ev-

Class

a result of the Alumni Campaign is measured

J by the accumulated response from the individ-
ual alumni who took part in it. Fifty men, acting as
class-agents, wrote more than twenty thousand letters
Four hundred and sixty-five men
contributed money. Acknowledgment is made by the
humble asterisk * in front of their names and the double
asterisk ** indicates those men who formed the spon-
sorship committee, who launched the campaign, who
provided money for the costs of it, without whom, it
could not have been undertaken.

The class-agents begged all their correspondents
to write a letter of news of themselves, so that the
briefing and reporting of this news would put each
man again in touch with all his friends. The volume
of these letters, of this news, is disappointing. Yet
there has been, in the past three months, a new current
of thought awakened, new and strong interests ex-
pressed, alive and warm feelings aroused toward the
University and toward fellow classmates and friends.
This feeling is impossible to reflect in making a cold
brief of a letter. The editor declares it is there in un-
usual terms and he wishes, in every case, there could be
a true, a literal report made. The volume is thin, but
the quality of its content could not be higher, more
heartening or more deeply appreciated by the admin-
istration of the University. It is here in these few
words, that thanks are given for the kindest of all feel-
ings the University has been the recipient of in many
years.

to their classmates.

1934
In Memoriam
*JosEPH GEORGE ROBINSON
June 11, 1933
Killed in an airplane crash at the Chicago World’s Fair.

1933

Voluntary contributions from the graduates of the
class of 1933 are reported as follows. No organized
campaign was conducted, no general appeal made.

*JoHN ALEXANDER CuLLEy, Arington Hotel, Ev-
anston, Ill.

*RICHARD THOMAS EDWARDS, Roanoke, Va.

*Wayne L. Fiacc, Newtown, Penn.

*ReED Grant McDovucatt, 15 Claremont Ave.,
New York City.

*ALvIN Bussre Orrner, 1508 South First St.,
New York City.

* MATTHEW

1219 Everett Ave.,
Louisville, Ky.

PEEL RIVERS,

anston, Ill.
*WILLIAM FOWLER Symonps, 1040 Judson Ave.,
Evanston, Ill. .
*WiILLIAM S. Barker, 207 Orange Road, Mont-
clair, N. J.
1932
360 men
Class-agent: *HENryY W. MacKenzir, Jr., Building
and Loan Bldg., Porsmouth, Va., of
Carr and MacKenzie

Co-agent: *ALLEN S. Carr, of Carr and MacKenzie,
same address.

*]. C. VARNER, JR., Lexington, Va., is close to
all events.

*R. W. REINHOLD, Addison-Saunders Associates,
Inc., 15 East 40th St., New York City, office of the
director, personal service department.

Herspert G. Dotiauite II, “Dolly,” 213 South
Main St., Amory, Miss., writes from the Park Hotel.
“IT do hope to be back in the Old Dominion at Lexing-
ton this time next year and trust I will end my aca-
demic work in 1934. Let me say though that I still
feel a full fledged member of the class of 1932 and al-
ways will though I did fall short of the degree last
June. I am here at the hotel and like the work fine
though it is most confining. We have a swanky little
50-room hotel here with very tasty appointments and
an excellent patronage. Business has been splendid
all year and I think it will continue on the increase.
You must come down to see me and do not be in a
hurry to leave when you get here as the old home town
is a famous place for good times and know you would
like everything. Speaking of the Hon. Jas. Cox Wil-
bourn—lI was through Meridian just about three weeks
ago while on my way to the Mississippi Coast to spend
ten days spring vacation and tried to get in touch with
Jim but did not have any success. I did drop him a
note to let him know that I had been in town. He is
now back from St. Louis and is doing real well in
Meridian. You will hear great things from and of him
some day or I am badly disappointed for one—for I’m
betting on him being a great success in law. No doubt
you have heard ere this that Wm. Birt Harrington is
in Shanghai, China, with the leading international cor-
poration law firm of the East and his address is 21
Yuen Ming Yuen Road, Shanghai—drop him a line
sometime. He is getting along famously.”

*H. GRAHAM Mortson, Bristol, Va., was solicited

[ 15}

vw -E ik oe

by Henry MacKenzie as a member of the class of 1932,
when he, “Snorter,” is class-agent for 1930. In this
exchange of pleasantries, the following anecdote
emerged; “Burks wrote me asking how I was getting
along, especially what my fees were. I told him, in
answer, that I was doing fine, that I had won all the
local J. P. cases and that my fees were as follows:
one rotten gallon of corn, a lien on a tobacco crop, a
sack of cooking apples, and after I had successfully
prosecuted the seducer of one of my clients the pros-
ecutrix’s fee was ‘Fore God, Mr. Morison, that was
a larrupin’ speech you made, I’se gwine to name the
baby after you.’ ”

Grorck A. Speer, Jr., “Algy,” Sanford, Fila.,
just set up business as a lawyer, had five clients the
first two weeks, optimistic.

*S. R. Parker, Jr., Lufkin, Texas, with the Gulf
Refining Co., with his father in business, reports
cheerfully, says Dick Beaton with Coke and Coke, law
firm, is doing well.

Woopson B. Gittock, 30 Edmondson Ave., Lex-
ington, Va., has joined a chemical society and a teach-
ers’ agency and awaits results.

*Everett N. Cross, 812 Farragut, N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C., on the staff of the Washington Daily
News, regrets he couldn’t get back for Finals.

Bos (R. W.) Ann1y, 3805 Brookside Drive, To-
ledo, Ohio.

GENE (EuceNE Pomeroy, Jr.) Martin, 206
Witherspoon Road, Baltimore, Md., says Tig Tignor
is teaching in Baltimore and Frank Smith is travel-
ing for Vick’s.

Ken Davis (KennetH Epwarp), 53 Hunnewell
St., Needham Heights, Mass., makes observations on
the Crawford case and recommends all northerners
spending two years in the South, says B. A. Street gets
an M.A. from Oklahoma this June, Jack Anderson is
married to Miss Louise Laix and both are studying at
Boston Institute, Herb and Heinie are at the Allison
Hotel, St. Petersburg, Fla., Heinie slowly recovering.

TroopER A. SHaw, 510 East Tenth St., Ada,
Okla., with Slaner’s Department Store.

Martin P. Burks III, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke,
Va. “My spare time is pretty well occupied with my
book revision work. I am finding that awfully inter-
esting and instructive but very tedious and I will be
glad when it is finished. I was in Martinsville last
week and drove out to see Joyce. I suppose you know
he is married. He didn’t give any notice of his inten-
tions but the news finally leaked out. I knew it could-
n't be very long. He and Mary Lou seem to be aw-
fully happy and they are crazy about Martinsville.
They bought about four acres of woodland about five

miles out of town and at present they are engaged in |

I

M A: Swe. 2 J tee

building a log house to live in. Hannibal is a first class
carpenter and he has just closed up his law office until
his home is completed.”

RussELL O. Morrow, 701 28th St., Lake Worth,
Fla., passed the Florida Law Exam and is practicing.

*JoHNNY Lapp, 1451 Government St., Mobile,
Ala., returned the middle of May from a two months’
trip to England, job on a ship, sailor for eight months.

Jutran H. Batvey, Greer, S. C.. is at sea with
the Grace Line Steamship Co., on board the $.S. Santa
Paula, New York to Seattle and points on the western
coast via the Panama Canal.

*Witiiam H. Wuire, 605 South Queen St., Mar-
tinsburg, West Va.

*.,, W. Jounson, Melfa, Va. “Time spent at
Washington and Lee was a fine experience and one
which pays daily dividends.”

BERNARD SpEcror, 8 South Augusta St., Staun-
ton, Va., says Jack Grasty is a candidate for the State
Legislature.

*KENNETH SPENCER, Peoples National Bank
Bldg., Lynchburg, Va., with William T. Spencer, Jr.,
lawyer, his brother, Commonwealth’s Attorney. Quotes
the S. E. Reports for May 4th as saying that Jack
Savage defended a mandamus before the Supreme
Court of West Virginia. Says that Jack has a swell
job—assistant to the Prosecuting Attorney for Kana-
wha County. Says, “I got a claim from Jack Mathews
yesterday and sent one to Fred Swink the other day,
so it seems that the class may be of some help to the
old classmates. I got Ernie Wood to send a claim to
Martin Burks the other day, which was a good one by
the way.”

*Haven (Wor) Watton, | Parade Place, Brook-
lyn, N. Y., says he has a job on Wall Street.

Kemper JENNINGS, John Jay Hall, Columbia
University, New York City, home address, DeFuniak
Springs, Fla.

*FREDERICK G. Swink, Norfolk, Va., with Swink
and Fentress, lawyers.

*R. W. Lorutan, Yorkville, Ohio, transferred to
Western Reserve, Cleveland, to be nearer home, but
loves Washington and Lee still.

Dick (R. T.) Doventis, Jr., Helena, Ark., with —
the New South Oil Co., manufacturers of cotton-seed
products. _

C. E. “Trex” Titson, Blacksburg, Va., football
coach at V. P. I., helps also with wrestling, was at
Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory, N. ©;

Josern B. Wuarron, Jr., 484 North Washing-
ton, El Dorado, Ark., has been studying medicine in
New Orleans, at Tulane, signs himself Job-Job, which
will be familiar to his friends.

*D. GeorcE Price, 701 Whittier St., N.W., Wash-

[ 16 ]

 

 

-

6¢ 974.199

at the University of Maryland gradu-

 

ington, HC.

ate school.
*].AWRENCE J. Roosk, 50 West 96th St., New

York City, a student in Bellevue Medical School, N. Y.

RicHARD O. ParMLEE, 205 Robinson St., Bing-
hampton, N. Y., has finished his work at Cornell,
taking a hotel commercial management course, now
‘4 Chicago where he will settle.

james M. McKnicut, 435 South Front St., Mem-
phis, Tenn., with the Southern Central Co., manufac-
turers of tablets, envelopes, stationery. Home address,
335 Kenilworth Place.

H. BrecKENRIDGE Heaps, Belair, Md. with Ty-
dings, Walsk, Levy and Archer, lawyers, is cheerful
about business and proud of his connection.

Ropert FRANcIS Netson, R.F.D. 5, Richmond,
Va. “One never really realizes his love for his Uni-
versity until he goes forth from it. Its name becomes
more ‘endeared and the attachment stronger. To know
it is calling to us alumni for support causes the heart
to stir. ‘Io aid at this time I consider a privilege, but

as yet I find myself still not adjusted. I do hope the.

needs will be met; so that our University shall continue
to uphold its much cherished ideals.”

Lyman C. HarreEct, Jr., Emporia, Va., chats at
length in a cheerful, reminiscent mood.

Banxy (C. B.) Taytor, 1211 Government St.,
Mobile, Ala., with the Mobile Rosin Oil Co., factory
and home office in Mobile. A Taylor business, “prod-
ucts of the living pine,” oils, pitches, compounds, spec-
ialties. Banky writes a thoroughly Banky letter, which
excuses us from publishing it in full, in print, though
its spirit and personality should be given the *.

*CuHarLtes A. Woop, Jr., “Hollywood,” 204 Gates
Bldg., Charleston, West Va., is quoted though maybe
he shouldn’t be: “After reading the first part of that
outrage upon the King’s English which you sent to me,
it Was my impression that you chaps had gone big-time ;
however, after the apology for the formal appearance
was offered, the opinions set themselves straight once
more, and the outcome is altogether pleasant. As for
the contribution to the Alumni Fund, such will be done
as you suggested with the expression that such would
be of larger sum were it not for the fact that the books
show a decided margin in the red. Am therefore let-
ting someone else take care of the deficiency arising
in the average donation. Perhaps I will be better able
next time to do my share. ‘True to reports, yours truly
Was over for the Easter set of dances, snorting up with
the lads and generally having a fair time. Passed the
ume of day with our good friend, Charles R. McDow-
ell, throwing him the usual line of bull in the hopes
of getting a passing grade on the Bills & Notes exam

I

Wariafa VG Swe (444-Way (43 4

ea OS A oe ee
10933

it is necessary that I return to the village of Lexing-
ton on Sunday next, again becoming a school boy
and sitting in on classes for such a period of time as
will satisfy the conscience of Mr. Moreland and Charlie
McD. Then, if the paper shows that I have guessed
enough questions correctly, they swear to be damned
that they will make me a sweet girl graduate. So, if
all of that is true, I may be pleased with another di-
ploma to hang on the bare office walls. After that
comes the five-day marathon with the mason jars;
heaven help the gummy alumni! Am hoping that you
and Debs will find it possible to make the jaunt over
and assist me around the place and otherwise enjoy
the music of Jan Garber. In the meantime, the best
of luck with the campaign with the class of ’32; hope
they crash through better than I have.”

Davip Ext Nicnotrs, 50 South Main St., Prov-
idence, R. I.

*W. P. Mepcacr, 3915 Dalrymple Ave., Balti-
more, Md., in person expressed his feelings.

*JAMES D. Sparks, 604 Riverside Drive, Mon-
roe, La.

*GrorcE M. Lupron, 456 Rivermont Ave., Lynch-
burg, Va. .

Ep (C. E., Jr.) ALLten, 4626 Maryland Ave., St.
Louis, Mo., writes from Paris, the Bankers’ Trust
Company’s customer’s writing room, where he dropped
in to send his regards to all. He is wandering around
Europe with no plans to return.

mF

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
RaymonpD Ap, Montclair, N. J.
Hat Wyman Hocuz, Akron, Ohio
DonaLp W. Larrp, Ventnor, N. J.
CuHar_es C. Love, Washington, D. C.
WayneE H. Maruts, Chicago, IIl.
CHARLES J. BrppLe, Norfolk, Va.
GEORGE WILLIAM PEpDIGOE, Glasgow, Va.

1931
326 men
Class-agent: *WALTER E. HorrMan, Seaboard Bank
Bldg., Norfolk, Va.

Kart M. Smiru, 43 East Main St., Waynesboro,
Penn., busy in various community affairs, connected
with the Renovize Waynesboro Campaign.

*HeNry McLane, Clay, West Va., prosecuting
attorney Clay County. “By the way, do budding young
attorneys in Norfolk ever give cheers from house tops,
or throw buns at young ladies in restaurants? I saw
O. J. Wilkinson in Huntington the other day. Gooch
is married. And, wonder of wonders, Joe McVey

Informa-

Which I have to take in the next week or so. Yep, passed the West Va. bar (O. J. didn’t) and is practic-
[ 17 ]
LIBRARY OF
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA.

a. ee A ek A Oe oe

“a

ing in Huntington. Vickers Watts is there too. I
haven’t ever heard a word from Kay Banks or Arnold
Vickers since I left school, except that Vickers took
the bar when I did. Thrift did also, and is now at Fay-
etteville, Jack Savage is Special Investigator. for the
P. A. in Charleston. Oh, yes, Gooch is selling cars.
And for that he learned the rule in the Duke of Nor-
folk case!. I took a bride myself January a year ago.
For the Lord’s sake write and tell me what has become
of all the boys.”

Wa po Lopsz, 80 Osborne St., Glen Ridge, N. J.,
worked on newspapers in New Jersey and Massachu-
setts, for Kresge’s and now “at liberty,” he says.

TuRNER ApAms, Leader Bldg., Lubbock, Texas,
practicing law, Patton and Adams, married last No-
vember.

Epwarp R. Scars, Lyndon, Ky., football coach
at Kentucky Military Institute. “As you know, I am
somewhat in a position to understand their difficulties.
We had a little trouble last year too, but managed to
pull through and with the tremendous drawing power
which our new winter plant in Florida has given us
have succeeded in getting the largest enrollment in the
history of the school. We are at present building an
annex to take care of the still larger enrollment which
is indicated for next year. I have just completed our
football schedule for next season and have included
such teams as Culver and the freshman teams of the
U. of K. and Notre Dame. Consequently, you can
understand that I would be interested in getting in
touch with any boys that you believe would be inter-
ested in coming to a real good school—incidentally,
athletics are especially attractive.”

BENJAMIN Lewis, JR., 1815 Franklin Ave., Co-
lumbus Ohio. 7

B. H. Lackey, Piney River, Nelson County, Va.,
with the Southern Mineral Products Corp.

*Appison T. Wuirt, Keys Bldg., Winchester,
Ky., of Whitt & Yeager, agents, Sun Insurance office,
general insurance. |

Grorcr Rosk SmirH, 1002 West Maple, Fayette-
ville, Ark., graduated from the University of Arkan-
sas in law, still feels the stronger loyalty here.

Manny (Manvet M.) Wernserc, Law Bldg.,
Frederick, Md., married recently, in addition to this
victory, he has had six cases in the courts of Mary-
land and no defeats.

Massty L. Printz, Luray, Va., took his Master’s
degree at the University of Virginia in philosophy,
hopes to complete his studies for a doctorate, taught a
short session of school this year.

Bitt (W. O.) Tuomas, Bedford, Va., with Pied-
mont Label Co., lithographers.

J. O. Tucker, Jr., 106 Waco St., Weatherford,

I

_where I am now located.

M A Gms Z 1 oe

,* ee. *s% &

Texas. After leaving Washington and Lee went to ©
T.C.V. at Fort Worth, where he is now and will grad- —
uate next year. |

*James B. Martin, Gloucester, Va., approves —
heartily and offers assistance at all times. |

*B. J. Lampert, JR., Holly Grove, Ark., with his —
father, general merchandise and cotton factor.

*Ep Mier, Dallas, Texas, with the National —
Bank of Commerce. |

DarrEL M. PRICE, Williamston, N. C., with the —
North Carolina department of the Aetna Insurance Co. —

JouN ALEXANDER VEECH, Dawson Springs, Ky., —
home adress, 926 Cherokee Road, Louisville, Ky., with
the Dawson Daylight Coal Co. “Since I left school I
have been fortunate enough to have been employed
practically all the time, first as an inspector on bridge ~
construction with the Louisville and Nashville Rail- —
road, where I stayed for 18 months, then as manager
of a bowling alley near Fort Wayne, Indiana, for a ~
couple of months, and then I was offered a job as as- |
sistant engineer at the Dawson Daylight Coal Co.,
During the time that I was
with the railroad I went up for Horace Gooch’s wed-
ding. He certainly won a beautiful and charming girl,
and I am sure that they will be the happiest couple —
in the world. I have been keeping up with Horace, of
course, and many others as well, though in a more or ~
less haphazard manner. While I was with the rail- —
road a fire wiped out everything that I owned, includ- —
ing all of the addresses that I had collected during
my four years at Washington and Lee. The list that
you enclosed is a great help and will enable me to get
in touch again. ‘Thanks for your thoughtfulness.” .

R. B. Armisteab, Jr., R.F.D. 2, Hopkinsville, Ky.

ELpert W. Rosinson, 396 Quail St., Albany, —
N. Y., student at the Albany Law School.

Birt (W. McM.) Dix, 103 Metcalf Laboratory,
Brown University, Providence, R. I. (home address,
65 South Ann St., Mobile, Ala.), graduate assistant in
the Jesse Metcalf Chemical Laboratory, Master’s de-
gree this June, hopes to continue work for his doctorate.

*GEORGE JUNKIN, Lexington, Va., with the Stand-
ard Oil Co., of Lexington.

CuHarvik (C. W., Jr.) Day, 519 Thompson Bldg.,
Tulsa, Okla., Missouri State Life Insurance Co., Ok-
lahoma City branch. ‘What I should like to see de-
veloped as far as our class is concerned is a large re-
union every three or four years such as Cornell or
others have, for I believe that if you can get the men
back now and then you will do a great deal more to-
wards keeping the enrollment up than in any other
way. Regardless of how scattered the class is over the
country it does seem to me that we could get a fairly
good percentage back at intervals. As for myself, I

[ 18 ]

 

T H E Ant A) iMicN

—

am especially disappointed that I have been unable to
get back as yet and it looks as. though nothing short
of a miracle that I could make Finals this year. How-
ever, | should hate to think that another year will go
by before I do and I intend to do all that I can to es-
cape such a possibility. You might be interested to
know that Paul Tatum Douglass was married very
quietly on May 6th.”

*Joun M. Dean, 1040 Leavenworth St., Apt. 307,
San Francisco, Cal., has been in California almost
two years and feels almost as proud of it as if he were
a native of the state. Did newspaper work for a while
and is now with the Union Oil Co. “Sat in the lounge
of the Olympic Club and listened to Bernie Cummins
play on the Lucky Strike hour from the Fancy Dress
Ball of 1932. The whdle program was good to me.”

*HAROLD WEINSTEIN, 800 West End Ave., New
York City, or after September, No. 8-1 Chauncy, Cam-
bridge, Mass., finished his second year in the Harvard
Law School.

Au (J. A., Jr.) Werrtnserc, 1010 Vermont Ave.,
N.W., Washington, D. C., in real estate.

Witsur Owen, Apt. 303, 15 North Henry St.,
Richmond, Va.

Knicut Lartrp, 824 South Main St., Jonesboro,
Ark., runs a gravel pit, supplying three large Federal
Aid road projects.

*Ben M. Ayars, 317 Adams St., Macon, Ga.,
got his LL.B. at Mercer’s Law School in Macon.
“Charles Brooks of our class is here in Macon work-
ing for Bibb Mills. Joe Clisby gets his A.B. here at
Mercer this year. I see Bill Price of the law class of
1929 in Atlanta every once in a while. Joe Saunders
of Coon-Saunders told me that he saw Paul Douglass
out in Oklahoma and he’d been in an oil derrick acci-
dent losing one arm. I hope he was mistaken in the
identity. Please note my home address is Bridgeton,
and in the future if you ever want to get in touch with
me, my sister will forward the letter. I wish the cam-
paign all the success in the world and think you de-
serve a couple of medals for undertaking the tre-
mendous job.”

*SIDNEY W. Cray, 102 Fourth St., Frankfort,
Ky., writes from Gallatin Hall B-42, Soldiers Field,
Boston, Mass., where he soon will finish his graduate
work. “It is with profound sorrow that I learn of the
financial difficulties of Washington and Lee. Although
the University has maintained its high standing in
Spite of a prolonged lack of funds, it is quite evident
that a certain income is necessary for continuance of
the high calibre training. I am quite in sympathy,
therefore, with the present action of the Alumni. Dur-
Ing my stay at Harvard, I have come in contact with
men from many universities, I still take great pride

I

me A A AR 2

in being a graduate of Washington and Lee for I
believe that certain gentlemanly qualities are devel-
oped there which are not obtainable at other colleges.
It is my sincere hope, therefore, that Washington and
Lee can continue to attract and train men of character.
I am sorry that I can be of no more financial aid, but
as I am soon to enter the ranks of the unemployed,
I feel that I can afford no more at the present time.
You have my best wishes for sucess in the campaign.”

The above dignified letter was written to an un-
known Mr. Hoffman of Norfolk who had intimidated
with his letterhead and firm name. Later it was dis-
covered he was Beef.

*W. P. BALLARD, Norfolk, Va., Ballard Fish and
Oyster Co., Inc., car lots and express shipments, spec-
ialties.

*CHANDLER W. Gorpon, Box 911, East Lansing,
Mich., writes on letterhead of the Carbon Fuel Co.,
Traction Bldg., Cincinnati, miners and distributors of
Carbon Coal, but says nothing about the nature of his
work. He does say this however: “I was in Lexing-
ton not long ago and it looks better than ever. How
any alumnus cannot feel pride in Washington and Lee
is beyond me.”

*WittiAM A. Grascow, Union Trust Bldg.,
Washington, D. C., of Hamilton and Hamilton, law-
yers: “I am at present attempting to live down the
stigma created by an LL. B. degree, the same, as you
may remember, having been conferred upon me through
no fault of my own. It is indeed regrettable that such
comforts as ‘Cold Case Corporations,’ etc., can not
accompany one through life, but at least I have the sat-
isfaction of looking back on days of leisure, though,
of course they cannot compare with your own work-
less existence of a few years back. I greatly apprec-
late the list of graduates of the class of ’31, which
I found enclosed in your letter. I trust that we may
all get back to Washington and Lee for a reunion some-
time in the future and that too many changes will not
be noticeable either in our classmates or in the school.”

*JoHN A. SHOEMAKER, 31 Elder St., Wilkes-
Barre, Penn., all good wishes and sincere ones.

*FrED M. Barron, 1111 North Enton St., Cecil
Apts., Baltimore, Md., Medical School, Johns Hopkins.
‘“T am very much interested in this new zeal for the
Alumni Association. Since I graduated I have lost
track entirely of most of the boys, and except for the
few times that I have been back to school, have heard
very little news. I have often wondered why I had not
heard from the Alumni Association, or why there was
not a better organization as compared to other schools.
So I am particularly interested in this new contact with
the school and with the fellows.”

*ALEX VANCE, 6 Preston Court, University of

[19 ]

esse ee Rea as ae

Virginia, Charlottesville, Va. (home address, Waynes-
boro, Va.), in Medical School.

*FRANK T. Breapy, 58 West Upsal St., German-
town, Philadelphia, Penn. “Since graduating, I have
been in several different lines of endeavor, i. e., insur-
ance, coal business, a conservatory of music,”’ and ends
with the best of wishes.

*IkE (I. F.) Hupvson, 604 East Reynolds 5t.,
Stamford, Texas, writes from 3956 Pine St., Phila-
delphia, Penn.

James B. Crane, 3720 Northampton St., Chevy
Chase, D. C., has had too varied and too interesting a
career not to report in his own words: “Let me trace
briefly what has hapened to me since I was graduated.
For the first six months after I left, I was out of work.
Then I went into the United States Daily as a report-
er, where I worked until August, 1932. In September
of that year I went with the Independent Syndicate,
writing features and special stuff. They launched a new
publication—Alger’s Newspaper—a tabloid newspaper
about kids, telling of their thrilling true adventures and
worthwhile accomplishments. It was received enthus-
iastically, but we were unable to get money to carry
on, so we folded up last November. Then I went with
Associated Editors, of Chicago, acting as Washington
correspondent. A month later they folded up, and I
was once again without work. That was about six
months ago; I haven't had any steady job since. Next
week, however, I expect to go with the Washington
Company, an organization acting as Washington con-
tact for outside business firms. If it goes well as it
promises, I should be making pretty good money in a
few months.”

Jack H. Harpwick, 103 French Ave., Winches-
ter, Ky., writes from Gallatin C-41, Harvard Business
School, Soldiers Field, Boston, Mass., finishing his
second year there, will settle either in Kentucky or
New York.

Westey Moore, 112 Flower Ave., East Water-
town, N. Y., writes from 79 Lake Place, New Haven,
Connecticut.

Jounny (J. Srmon) Stosupure, 413 Chambers
St., Trenton, N. J., completing his second year of law
at the New Jersey Law School in Newark, has one
more year, then must “clerk” a year before taking
his exam.

Reno R. Porter, 3417 Hawthorne Ave., Rich-
mond, Va., studying medicine at the Medical College
of Virginia, second year.

Ep StTempTMAN, Jr., 33 North Braddock St., Win-
chester, Va., working for the Traveler's Syndicate, a
national building and loan company, investing in first
mortgages.

Horace Goocu, Jr., Amarillo, Texas, attorney at

I

M ‘Ate 2... 1. Be-®

law, married six months ago, Miss Jane Bradford, of
Plymouth, Mass., honeymooned in Havana. Says Gil-
more is married and has an eight months old girl. Asks
where Obidia Wilkinson is. Says Turner Adams 1s
near, asks about Bill Suggs.

THomas Day Sucecs, Jr., Fayetteville, Tenn.
Writes from his father’s bank, the First National Bank
of Fayetteville, says: “Sometimes I wonder what the
class of ’31 is doing, whether or not fate is doing jus-
tice to them. But whatever may come or go I will
always be proud of the fact that I was a member of
that class, and I continually look forward to any chance
that I may have of meeting again with its members.
I know there is no place like Washington and Lee, and
that the boys I met there are the finest I will ever
know. Since graduation I have been working mostly
for my father. I have been helping to manage two or
three farms and at odd times I have worked in a store.
I have worked around enough to know that a dollar is
sure hard to get. But after all I feel like [ am more or
less marking time until I can return to school and finish
in law.”

Pau. T. Douctass, Morris Bank, Okmulgee, Ok-
la., writes from his late father’s office; “As for news,
I was married on the 6th of this month to Maxine
Brier, a Guthrie, Oklahoma girl. I see Charley Day,
one of Tulsa’s most promising young life insurance
salesmen, quite often. Stewart Linschied and his wife,
are located in Seminole, Oklahoma, where he is teach-
ing in the Junior College.”

W. S. SANDIFER, JR., Security Trust Bldg., Lex-
ington, Ky., with Keenon and Huguelot, lawyers, is
quoted, after many deletions and circumlocutions and
polishing up: “Dear ‘Cold Case’: What in the hell you
can put in a bulletin about me is more than I know.
You might say that my rise in the legal profession has
been little short of phenomenal and that I am being
prominently mentioned for the next governorship. You
might add also that I am adjusting insurance and claims
for the S. E. Greyhound lines trying to keep body and
soul together. By the way, my fat friend, you were
missed at last Finals. Sugg and most of the old bunch
were there and a swell time was had by all.”

*Cuuck (CHARLES ALPIN) Bowes, 1232 Clay-
ton St., Denver, Colo., writes all about himself and
Watty: “Dear Beef: Only too glad to comply with
your request for a letter about what Watty and I are
doing. Sorry for the few delays since your card ar-
rived, but you know how hard it is to get around to
things. Watty came directly to Denver from school
and went in the real estate business with our Dad in
the firm of A. G. Bowes & Son. He now is consid-
ered the promising young business man in his field—
evidence of which was his election to the presidency

[ 20 ]

T H E Ae WS" Me ON

of the Denver Realty Board last fall. He expects to
be married to Eva Layman, of Newcastle, Va., ’31
graduate of Randolph-Macon. My course has been
more devious and less brilliant. I went to New York
after school, landing there hip-deep in depression, At-
ter about a month of selling insurance and vacuum-
cleaners, I landed the job I went there to seek with
W. R. Grace and Company, world wide foreign trade
and shipping company. New York not ‘settin’ so well’
with a fellow from the wide open spaces of the West,
| left there last June and became business manager of
a Colorado dude ranch for the summer. Last fall I
decided to tackle the newspaper game, became a report-
er on the staff of the Denver Post. I now am assist-
ant State Editor of that sheet, working on the side
(with ambitions) toward becoming a free lance writer.
[ guess this will fill your requirements, Beef. Best per-
sonal regards from both Watty and myself.”

Harry Burn, Jr., 719 South Shields, Richmond,
Va., in sympathy with the organization, ‘With regard
to what I am doing; since graduation I have been con-
nected with the News-Leader and at present am trying
to sell a little newspaper advertising. Do you remem-
ber Julian Black, class of ’30, a Phi Kappa Psi? He
and I have a room together. He is with the Retail
Credit Corporation, and doing right well. I see several
Washington and Lee boys now and then but have never
joined the local Alumni Association, guess that should
be my next move.”

Hers Winston, 14 Overlook Ave., West Orange,
N. J., “See Beckwith once in a while and he frequently
speaks of you. Also a pretty faithful correspondent
with Frank Williams, Harris Cox, and Alex Veech.
They are all fine and doubtless you have heard from
Veech. Cox is with the Geophysical Survey Co., and
spends the majority of his time travelling about Texas
and the Southeast in a quest for oil. He has a very
interesting, as well as a job with fair promise for a
good future. As for myself, I am now with the Radio
Corporation of America, and am located at their Har-
rison, N. J., plant. Started in as a laborer and have
been fortunate enough to become a sort of assistant
foreman in charge of all inspection of the filament con-
tained in a radio tube. Industry is indeed a tough
racket and I cannot see any particularly rosy future
in store for me. However, a job is a job and I con-
sider myself very fortunate to possess one at this time.”

Witiiam G. Rosertson, “Bobby,” 418 Third
Ave., Warren, Penn., at present in Buffalo, in second
year Medical School, University of Buffalo.

GrorcE Minrer, Jr., 348 Mulberry St., Abilene,
Texas, in the Minter family business of dry goods,
Abilene’s progressive department store, states the code
of an alumnus; “Since graduation I have come to be-

I

De oe Gr ee ee eee

lieve that the alumni of any school can in a large mea-
sure determine its success, by helping form its policies
and of course in the contact with the boys entering
college. With an alumni as national as Washington
and Lee’s, it seems to me that stronger state organiza-
tions should be formed. I know it is true of my own
state. For instance, when Dr. Gaines spoke in Dallas
none of the alumni outside of Ft. Worth and Dallas
knew of it until reading about it in the papers. V.M.I.
has an organization in the state that meets once and
sometimes twice a year for a banquet and get-together.
I believe we could have something similar to this and
that considerable interest would be evidenced. I will
be glad to help in any way that I can for of course
I am always interested in my school and the men con-
nected with it.”

*BERNARD B. Gorrcigs, 1100 33rd St., Birming-
ham, Ala., in the Gottlieb family business, department
store at 2230 Second Ave., North, branches in Brook-
side and Tuskegee. Bernard is sales manager, remem-
bers the humbler joys, like Thelen’s Coffee Shop and
is hungry for them again.

*A. C. JONES, Jr., “Red,” Batesburg, S. C., with
the Batesburg Fertilizer Co., cotton seed products, cot-
ton seed and fertilizer; “You no doubt think I am a
bum for not writing to you before now, but really when
it comes to writing I am the world’s worst. ‘Then too
[ have had a cousin, former Wahoo, visiting me for
about ten days, and we certainly traveled about. You
say you want to know what I am doing. Not so much.
Do you know anyone who needs a good no-count law-
yer? If so, let me know. Since finishing school last
year, I have been helping Dad some in his business,
the fertilizer and cotton business. Once upon a time it
was a good business, today it isn’t quite what it used
to be. I worked at everything from being a stevedore
with cotton and fertilizer (bossing the negroes every
now and then) to being a bank messenger, bill collec-
tor, and legal adviser. Just general handy man, I think.
But I am mostly my own boss—the only thing to my
advantage. I think I know this business O. K. now,
and wish that I could work awhile in some good law
firm. Might do it before long.”

*]. ALLEN JOHNSTON, Buena Vista, Va., in his
own business, drug store; “It naturally makes me feel
a lot better to know that after I have gone out into the
world to try to make a living that some one person or
association will drop me a line now and then—please
keep it up.”

WaLtace N. Hupcins, Culpeper, Va., makes a
good point that ought to be cleared up. Says he is
not an alumnus, having had one year only. A matricu-
late, upon leaving, becomes an alumnus, regardless of
time spent.

[ 21 ]

— te 2 Pie ae a ee

I

| ee ee a a

 

GitmorE N. Nunn, Pampa, Texas, with the Pam-
pa Daily News. After leaving school, went to New
Mexico, vice-president of the New Mexico Publishing
Co., publishers of papers in Raton, Clovis, Carlsbad,
Roswell. October 6th, 1931, was married to Miss
Josephine Townsend from Texas. Entered politics
and liked it. Delegate from New Mexico to the Dem-
ocratic National Convention in Chicago, also repre-
sented the Western League of Young Democrats.
Moved back to Texas to take over his father’s interests
there, likes Texas, hated to leave New Mexico. Last
winter came east and visited Lexington, which was the
climax of his trip.

R. Stanton Emerson, 54 New St., East Orange,
N. J., going to Medical College, Cornell, in New York
City, has gotten his B.A. from Cornell while doing
medical work, too. _

Harris JoHNSON Cox, Geophysical Service, Inc.,
Dallas, Texas, writes from Lake Charles, La., but

hopes to be in Dallas at 1311 Republic Bank Bldg.,:

for headquarters. Has been working in swamps, with
alligators, snakes, and mosquitoes.

Joun O. McNEEL, Mill Point, West Va., at the
University of Virginia, second year medical school,
two more to go. Saw Washington and Lee beat Vir-
ginia and his remarks are loyal, as he is in all respects.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
Wiiuis ELweEtvi Bixver, Stony Brook, N .J.
Davin McKay, New York City.
Ltoyp A. Mysrs, Charlotte, N. C.
StevE ALLEN CAMPBELL, Tulsa, Okla.

1930
290 men
Class-agent: *H. GrAnHAM Morison, Jr., Bristol,
Tenn.-Va.

Mere Suter, 934 Rock Spring Road, Claren-
don, Va., sincere regrets, momentarily between jobs.

Brick WILuiAMs, Jr., 38 Exchange Place, New
York City, with Hoagland, Allum and Tunney, Inc.,
of New York and Chicago, reports on T. G. Gibson.

F. S. (Henx) Hanna, 509 Francis St., St. Jo-
seph, Mo., of Mumford and Hanna Investment Co.,
real estate, loans and insurance.

Evan A. Wier, Keystone Bank Bldg., Pitts-
burgh, Penn., with Harry Wimer, Inc., engineers and
constructors, offices in Savings Bank Bldg., Butler,
Penn. |

Ricuarp D. HAmILtTon, Portsmouth, Va., of the
Portsmouth Star, an evening paper, the only paper in
a city of 60,000 people.

*Ben (L.) Raw tins, Jr., 208 South LaSalle St.,

Informa-

Chicago, one of sixteen members of Knapp, Beze, Al-
len, Cochran and Cushing, lawyers, has been back
twice lately.

Bog (R. E., Jr.) CLapp, 1 Chauncy St., Apt. 12,
Cambridge, Mass., is at home this summer at 303
Rockwell Terrace, Frederick, Md., finished this June
at Harvard Law School. May settle and practice in
Frederick, may not. “There are just a few of us
holding down the Washington and Lee end of things
up here. As far as I have been able to ascertain, no
men came up this year, but there are several in the
second year here, and quite a number at the Business
School. We meet once in a long while but the place
is so large, and the atmosphere so different, that the
meetings are not the same as they used to be. We all
have one thing in common, though, and whenever any
of the New Englanders stick their necks out too far
about ‘Fair Harvard,’ one of us usually tries to do
something about it.”

*Van GivLpert, Athens, Ala., register Circuit
Court, expresses feelings so common to all who have
written. For example: “I would be interested in hav-
ings news of you and the other Washington and Lee
men in Bristel and feel that a news letter, accompany-
ing your solicitation would pay big dividends. Please
remember me to Tooter, Hagan Minich, Rouse and the
other dusters of your vicinity. I am looking forward to
a trip to Finals this year and I hope that I will have
the opportunity of seeing all of you then.”

*Rat (Husert L.) Ecnors, Echols Bldg., Staun-
ton, Va., practicing law under his own name, no firm.
It is not the policy of this campaign to advertise the
depression, nor confide personal affairs to the world
but who would not want to read Rat himself on the sub-
ject, “The enclosed check is an answer to your letter of
April 19th which I didn’t receive until about ten days
ago. I can’t imagine what ‘chord’ you struck to prevail
upon me to ‘gorge up,’ for God knows I can’t afford
it. I hope however, that the small contribution will
help relieve the strain of the depression. I opened a
law office over here about six months ago and if the
depression lasts much longer I will certainly have to
try some other means of making a living. You can
rest assured that this contribution is not a slice off of
any fee. You are no doubt planning to come to Finals
this year and I will try to see you there and finish this
letter. You certainly have my best wishes for a sucess-
ful campaign.”

*Bos Mostey, Conway, Ark., in the family’s bus-
iness of wholesaling groceries, the M.-K. Grocery Co.
He is gossipy but safe to quote: “As yet I have not
been back to dear old Washington and Lee. Have in-
tended to go to Finals every year. I take the Ring-tum
Phi and keep up with all the scandal and news. I

[| 22 |

. Be fm 1 ie N

ec ___™_—

see by the late issue of the paper that Jan Garber
will play this year. Should be good. You remember
Turner Adams. He is practicing law in Lubbock,
Texas. He married a girl who has been teaching
school in the high school in that place. Turner is
getting along fine. Since I have been home I have been
working in my father’s wholesale grocery house. We
have a fine business here in spite of the depression.
Am still single and hope to be that way for some time.
You remember Mike Seligman, he is here in Arkansas
a great deal of the time with the Colgate-Palmolive-
Peet Soap Co. He is making good. See him quite
often. Guess you know that Bev Lambert is married.
He is buying cotton in Forrest City, Ark.”

*GrorcE F. Asnuwortru, College Park, Md., in
the department of History, University of Maryland,
no complaints.

Joun P. Lyncu, JRr., 3907 Seminary Ave., Rich-
mond, Va.
you and to know that Washington and Lee has at
last definitely and wisely established a working Alum-
ni Board. The alumni can be of great service to any
institution and I am sure that those of us who had the
good fortune of spending at least four happy years at
Washington and Lee will welcome the opportunity of
doing what we can for the school. ‘This statement
may seem insincere when I tell you that I will not be
able to make a contribution this year, but I am doing
what I can to influence young men to attend Washing-
ton and Lee. I was very glad to send in six prospective
names. But for the fact that my bank here has failed
to open since the holiday, | would make at least a small
contribution. I have always felt that I owe a great
debt to the old school and I sincerely hope that in time
I will at least be able to pay the interest on that debt.
As you see by this letterhead I am attending medical
school. I finished my second year here in May. I am
glad to see that you are well established in your chosen
profession. I extend my sincere greetings to you and
to the other members of the class of 1930.”

J. W. Jongs, Blacksburg, Va., finished graduate
work in June, started working for his father in July,
in Gordonsburg, Va.

A. S. Wacner, 824 Wilson Bldg., Dallas, Texas,
of Munger, Wagner and Moore, agents Southern de-
partment Citizens Insurance Co., New Jersey.

Tom C. Arwoop, 118 South Clay Ave., Ferguson,
Mo., has gossip: “I hear from Bill Marsh and Bob
Fangboner now and then and of course see the St.
Louis gang rather often. Red Hanna comes down
from St. Joe, Mo., about once a year. I saw Battle
and Tayloe last Thanksgiving, enclose Bill Field’s and
Frank Evans’ address.”

Met (G. M.) Jennincs, DeFuniak Springs,

‘I was very much pleased to hear from ~

I

me AS Ge Ae SS ee ee

Fla. W. K. Jennings Co., dry goods, shoes, clothing,
reports that Luck Foote got married in Madison the
last of May.

*F, L. SuHipMAN, Peoples Building and Saving
Bldg., Troy, Ohio, of Shipman and Shipman, lawyers,
had a son born the middle of May, and plans for a re-
union of the law class in 1935.

Leo V. Fany, 414 Broad St., Rome, Ga., lately
set up the practice of law for himself, not meaning
to be witty, has a young family and has gone through
a paradoxical kidnapping.

Bup (A. L.) Ropinson, 183 Hodge Ave., Buf-
falo, N. Y., works for DuPont Cellophane and Rayon.

*Witt1AM H. Fievps, Jr., is in Montgomery,
Alabama, formerly of Pineapple, Alabama.

** HERBERT GRANT JAHNCKE, 1807 Calhoun St.,
New Orleans, La.
Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Howarp Gisk, New York City.
DANIEL W. Linpsky, Jr., New York City.
MARSHALL VAuGHT, Johnson City, Tenn.

1929
316 men
Class-agent: *L®wis F. Powk i, Atlantic Life Bldg.,
Richmond, Va.

*IRWIN SANDERS, 3656 Spottswood Ave., Mem-
phis, Tenn., writes: “Your two letters addressed to me
in Bulgaria have been forwarded on to Memphis. I
was glad to hear from you again and to know that the
alumni of Washington and Lee are being organized
into an effective organization. It does seem that those
of us who have gotten so much from Washington and
Lee should be able to stand by her in time of need.
I grow more proud of the school every passing day.
The contribution I am sending, however, is not at all
commensurate with my interest. It is all I can do
now because I have two more years of school ahead.

“A thumb-nail biography: Upon finishing Wash-
ington and Lee in 1929 I went to the American College
of Sofia, Bulgaria and taught English and Latin three
years. The session of 1932-33 was spent at Princeton
Theological Seminary, Princeton, N. J. Next year
I intend to go to Cornell and work for my Ph. D. de-
gree in Rural Social Organization, with the view of
returning to Bulgaria and doing work among the vil-
lagers of that country.

‘Lewis, it is good to hear from you again. I hope
this finds you well and enjoying life to the fullest.”

Birt (W. A.) Tomuiinson, Tomlynhurst, High
Point, N. C., in the family business, “Tomlinson of
High Point’? designers and makers of furniture, offices

Informa-

[ 23 |

eae oe A ee

and exhibits in New York and Chicago, a friendly
letter.

*FRANK W. McC uer Jr., Aberdeen, N. C., with
the law firm of Johnson & Johnson. Says he is strug-
gling, acknowledges the promise of the future and
sends evidence of his optimism. He reports: “Dick
Beaton writes me that he is quite busy and expects to
come home to Virginia this summer for a short visit;
that ‘Tom Fitzhugh is practising law in the morning
and farming in the afternoon; Bob Martin has another
heir, thus making the firm consist of Martin, Martin,
Martin and Martin; Jake Strickland is devoting a
large portion of his time to practice in the Domestic
Relations court in Memphis; Turner Adams, the old
watchdog of the Peoples’ Rights, is still looking after
widows’ insurance money, with the help and assistance
of his brother who is an insurance agent.”

*THomas J. Sucrur, 2 West 86th Street, Hotel
Peter Stuyvesant, New York City, reporter for the
New York Herald Tribune. Sends a clipping on “The
Last Farm in Manhattan’ and it is a pity space does
not allow its complete publication. His letter comes
first. “Marion Junkin called me up to say that he is
leaving for Winchester to spend the summer there
with his mother. Leonard Glover got him two year-
books to do, making the vacation possible. He intends
to go to Richmond and said he would look you up.
You've no idea what amazing power he has developed
in his art—hope you have a chance to see some of it.

“T suppose I’m listed as a member of the class of
‘29, though my real class is 30. It doesn’t matter,
only when we graduated in ’30, I recall that you told
us of a plan to have an alumni organization—with re-
unions every five years. After that several people
were nominated for president, and I, being hot and
tired, suggested that the men be elected by acclama-
tion to do away with balloting. “Fine,” said Bob
Davis, “I nominate you for secretary-treasurer.” I’ve
heard nothing of it since then and I’ve wondered what
I’m to do. Perhaps you can advise me. I don't see
any hope of a close organization but a letter to mem-
bers once a year wouldn’t be a bad idea—with an in-
closed card filled in with activities and gossip. From
these a gossip letter might be gotten up—and then
every five years the class could meet in Lexington—
and at the reunion I think some money could be
raised.

“Naturally I’m backward about taking a lead in
alumni affairs, simply because I’m a northerner. I
hate the stigma, and point with pride to the fact that
my grandfather went back to Ireland rather than fight
against the South, but I can’t escape the fact that I
was born in Connecticut. Anyhow, my family comes
from the south of Ireland.

I

M.A 6 eee ae. 1d oe

“Be that as it may, is and shall be, I’m for any-
thing that will help Washington and Lee and that will
keep the classes unified and get them back to the cam-
pus once in a while. I’m also in favor of Dr. Shan-
non’s plan to make the school a college again—the best
liberal arts college in the South—and hang the idea
of making a university of such a small school.

‘Toward the end of the summer I hope to spend
a month at Virginia Beach. Do you recall the lives
of the poets and writers we studied, and how some
of them were labeled ascetics? I’m wondering now
how many were that way because they had to be.
Every effort I ever made to be a Rabelaisian character
ended badly (the same applies to Fitz Flournoy).
Old Doc White used to tell me I ought to live on toast
and milk and do nothing but think. The Great Engi-
neer, he remarked gave me a collapsible body and an

insane mind.

“T find the life of a monk the only one for me.
Newspaper work is devasting for many reasons: nerv-
ous energy burns up quickly, hours are jumbled, food
is haphazard, and too many interviewers think report-
ers have iron stomachs with regard to alcohol. Any-
how I’m in the hands of the quacks again, and have
returned to the monastery. This time I think I’ll stay
in my cloister and confine myself strictly to writing.
I can do without a Byronian saga. |

“Hope you get to see Junkin, and sometime let
me know about the alumni organization plans, and
where I can get a list of my classmates of ’30 with their
correct addresses, if there is such a thing.”

“Thomas Joseph Sugrue: newspaperman. Born,
Naugatuck, Conn., May 7, 1907, son of Michael and
Mary (Doolan) Sugrue. Ed. public schools and Wash-
ington and Lee University, A.B. 1929, M.A. 1930.
Columnist and feature writer, Naugatuck Daily News,
Sept., 1930 to May, 1931. Reporter on New York
Herald Tribune since August, 1931. Co-author (with
John Lardner) of “The Crowning of Technocracy,”
1933. Contributor to various magazines. Member of
Phi Kappa Psi, Phi Beta Kappa Sigma Upsilon, Pi
Delta Epsilon, Sigma Delta Chi, Omicron Delta Kappa
and Alpha Sigma. Address: Hotel Peter Stuyvesant,
2 West 86th St., N.Y.C.”

*FRANK E. BEANE III, 60 Beaver Street, New
York City.

*JsromME M. Atien, 841 North Fourth Ave.,
Knoxville, Tenn., hurt by unavoidable changes and
readjustments, buoyed by philosophical truths and the
loyalties.

G. E. Wurrs, 407 Equity Bldg., Oklahoma City,
Okla., supervisor of agents of the Guaranty Life In-
surance Co. Studied law at the University of Okla-
homa, graduated in 1932, entered the bar. Home ad-

[| 24 ]

 

 

_ i a al i i ct tit i De eK ie: hi eee,

T H E Ae AU WM, SN

dress: 1126 N.W. 37th St. Can definitely count eleven
hovs he has sent to Washington and Lee. Can that
record be surpassed ?

WittiAM N. Hinton, 306 Jackson Ave., Lexing-
ton, Va., on leave from the University for part of this
year doing extra work, will return in the fall.
*WittiAM L,. Mayorre, Grifton Lumber Co., of
Hudson Falls, N.Y., helps toward the friendliness of
the campaign. His letterhead bears the cryptic letters
Radio Station WGLC of CBS.

* ALFRED B. Cotttson, The Trenton Times, Tren-
ton, New Jersey, responds exactly as requested: “At
present 1 am reporting for a local morning paper, the
‘Trenton State Gazette’, completing my second year
with them this summer. Prior to that and immedi-
ately following graduation I was a member of the As-
sociated Press Bureau at the State Capitol here. Thus,
four years of newspaper work, two of them as a begin-
ner, obviously has not raised my financial rating a
tittle. I am heartily in sympathy with the fund drive
idea and realize what you fellows are up against. I
think it is a great undertaking and has been engineered
for the class of ’29 at least in a splendid manner. It
would be refreshing to get in touch in some manner
again with each other, if only to get a brief glimpse of
the paths being followed since graduation. I hope the
class bulletin news will to some extent achieve this.”

J. W. Tanxarp, 3611 Locust St., Philadelphia,
Penn., graduated this June from University of Penn-
sylvania Medical School.

*A. L. McCarper, Jr., 301 Rockwell Terrace,
Frederick, Md., travels as an assistant national bank
examiner with the 5th Federal Reserve District.

GATEWOOD Brock, 5-B, 809 Princess Anne Road,
Norfolk, Va., announces Master Robert Gatewood
Brock, 4 months old. “All that long distance running
[ used to do has given him a pair of lungs, much to my
nightly discomfort. Thank goodness he doesn’t cry
much, but when he does it’s just like an alarm clock.
I wouldn’t trade places with anyone. ‘The going is
rough sometimes, but always worth it.”

*j. Epwarp Lewis, Jr., Hotel Hill Bldg., Oak
Hill, West Va., with the New River Insurance Agency,
insurance and bonds.

*Jjim (J. J.) Sarincer, 5440 Cass Ave., The Bel-
crest, Detroit Mich. “Having been associated with
R. H. Macy & Co., New York’s largest department
store for the past two and a half years I find it quite
a jump to come out here and do what I am. I’m now
with the Mazer Cressman Cigar Co., manufacturers of
cigars, and have been having much fun and plenty of
work helping in its reorganization.”

CLyp—E Wirson, 958 West University Avenue,
Gainesville, Fla., is studying law, University of Flor-

I

MUTA TS :GMA Ze} SNe

ida. Between 1929 and 1932 did newspaper work in
Knoxville and Miami. Gets his degree next February.

RicHaArD P. Carrer, 304 Washington Park, Wash-
ington, N. C., has two jobs: one on the Washington
Daily News (N.C.), the other is his father-in-law’s
business, manufacturer of ice cream. Nick is adver-
tising manager.

*FRANK T. PARKER, JR., Waynesboro, Va., raises
apples “Rosecliff Company, Inc.,” married June 18,
1932, to Miss Marion McElroy of Charlottesville. Has
spent two years since graduation in Florida and Ala-
bama. Is more than the ordinary, an active, loyal
alumnus.

*JoHN BELL ToweE tt, Batesburg, S. C., no news.

_*M. M. Heuser, First National Bank Bldg., Nor-
ton, Va., attorney at law.
L. C. BEtRNE, Jr., Louisa, Va., practices law there.

G. W. Marion, East Waynesboro, Va., has had a
long illness, now recovering. After a year at Wash-
ington and Lee began correspondence course with the
La Salle Extension University law department, just
about to be completed. Looking now for opening in
a firm or private office. Invites correspondence.

Jim (J. F.) Bruner, 207 Peden St., Westminster,
5. C., invites correspondence.

*WiILLIAM C. Watson, Jr., 206 N. 9th St., Co-
lumbus, Miss., graduated in law from Tulane in June,
plans uncertain. |

*JAMES W. Baireéy, Bluefield, West Va., with
the West Virginia Armature Co., electrical contractors,
has to hustle and does.

ALFRED JUNKIN, 6 Houston St., Lexington, Va.,
with the McCrum Drug Co., sees and knows every-
thing. :

Ep (F.) Mapison, Box 308, Bastrop, La., is of
the law firm of Madison, Madison and Fuller, offices
also in Monroe but Ed is in Bastrop.

*SamM LANCASTER, Texas and Pacific Bldg., Dal-
las, Texas, is an attorney in the legal department for
Texas and Arkansas of the Texas and Pacific Railway,
a new job after three years in general practice. Does
interstate commerce work. Speaks of additions to his
family but in no detail.

ATHERTON SEELEY, 33 West Upsal St., German-
town, Philadelphia, Penn.

Henry P. Jonnston, Huntsville, Ala., publisher,
The Huntsville Times. “I don’t believe there is an
alumnus anywhere who is more loyal or devoted than
I am. 1 remember and cherish my many associations
there.”

*Tom (P.) Wricut, Dayton, Va., of the depart-
ment of English, Shenandoah College, generous good
wishes and approval.

[ 25 ]

ee Les ACHE Aa tie ae

*(GKorcE M. Wricut, Jr., Great Falls, $. C., with
the Republic Cotton Mills, makers of print cloth and

fine combed fabrics, his father’s business of which he

is president, no news but a handsome response other-
wise.

*Gripert R. Lapp, Jr., Thames and Batre, Mo-
bile, Ala., generous response but with no news except
that his business is insurance, including its every form,
its unusual forms.

Ben Eastwoop, 1926 Milan St., New Orleans, La.

Bos (S.) Bacon, Dauner Veneer Co., Mobile,
Ala., makers of rotary cut veneers, reports that he
saw Liz Neely on one of his trips about for the Veneer
Co., Morgan, Van Horn and Bemis. Has heard from
Nicky, mentions Harvey and Stew.

Joun Umer, Box 524, Kirksville, Mo., has left
Toledo and is studying medicine which he likes very
much.

Bitte (B.) Lorr, 160 Rapier Ave., Mobile, Ala.,
graduated in January from the University of Alabama
Law School and is undecided whether to practice in
Mobile or go to Washington.

Jack THOoRINGTON, JR., 13 South Perry St., Mont-
gomery, Ala., of Thorington and Thorington, lawyers,
father and son, invites further correspondence, another
request next year, which is an attitude that is appreci-
ated, an opening that will not be neglected.

*Harry M. Witson, Jr., Atlantic National Bank
Annex, Jacksonville, Fla., with Childress and Co., in-
vestment bankers and consultants, short but sweet, no
news but full apprehension.

*ArtLEN B. Morcan, 1468 Vinton Ave., Memphis,
Tenn., with the First Securities Corporation reports
Tom Fitzhugh is looking well and prosperous.

*J. M. SHACKELForD, Charleston, S. C., with W.
T.. Grant Co., department store. Graduated from Bos-
ton Tech last June, has a job, is grateful, sends 50%
of one week’s salary, is not ashamed of the sacrifice in
doing so.

CuHartes D. Mercxes, Louisville, Ky., with the
Jefferson Wood Working Co., a family business, mak-
ers of furniture parts in the white.

Ratpnw C. Lynn, 28 Washington Place, East
Orange, N. J., in the practice of law a year with Fred-
erick P. Schenck, has a new joke. A client said, “I met
your other client yesterday.”

Wa crer H. Witcox, Jr., 2 Park Ave., New York
City, with S. D. Warren Co., paper manufacturers.

Jutrus Garnet? Berry, Tupelo, Miss., with the
Tupelo Insurance Agency, his father’s business, has
been in ‘Texas and likes it, may go. back though indi-
cations are strongly in favor of remaining where he is.

Frntty WappvELL, 8 Jordan St., Lexington, Va.,
of Wise and Waddell, insurance, Finley, secretary.

I

MUA GAA 21 Nee

Dick Sprrry, 116 North Main St., Chardon,
Ohio, engineer department of Highways, State of ©
Ohio, interested also in politics, campaigns.

In Memoriam
JAcKson HAMILTON RICE
May 2, 1932

1928
276 men

Class-agent: *Roperr F. Hower, Walton Rice Mill,
Stuttgart, Ark.

Co-agent: *Ruypon C. Latuam, Greenleaf and Cros-
by Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla.

P. R. Harrison, Jr., Charleston, West Va., at- —
torney for the State Corporation Commission of West —
Virginia, sees other Washington and Lee men often, —
Attorney-General Holt and Kenneth Hines, one of his —
assistants. |

*H. B. Busotp, 319 Main St., Orange, N. J., at- —
torney, graduated in law at Washington and Lee in
1930, returned to New Jersey. .

*PuHILLip D. Sprouss, 259 Main St., Springfield,
Tenn., with G. B. Sprouse & Co., manufacturers of —
hardwood and soft Southern hardwood lumber. |

Joun B. Ecker, Jr., 1311 30th St., N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C. |

*W. D. Dickerson, Stubbs-Kelley Bldg., Doug-
las, Ga., of the firm of Kelley and Dickerson. 3

*A. P, BonpuRANT, 30th and Grand Ave., Louis- —
ville, Ky., with the Reynolds Metals Co., tin, aluminum,
zine foils for protection and decoration.

Rosert W. PuHarr, Bank of Commerce Bldg.,
Memphis, Tenn., has practiced law four years, second
lieutenant 317th Field Artillery (Reserve).

*Ropert L. Mitier, 106 East St. Matthew St.,
Gonzales, Texas, attorney, married June 15th, reports
on Mike Palmer, practicing law in San Antonio; Mitch-_
ell, who is taking a flying course at Randolph Field;
and Burke Zimmerman, who is to become a doctor.

Joun Eruripce (Buck) Batrry, First National
Bank Bldg., Dallas, Texas, special agent for the Aetna
Life Insurance Co., reports “Johnny Lancaster is one
of the largest lawyers in the city, doing well and Sam
is practicing law, legal department of the T. & P. Rail-
way, has a family of one boy and one girl.”

Rosert C. Burris, 201 East Gambier St., Mt. -
Vernon, Ohio, after leaving Washington and Lee,
went with the American Glanzstoff Corporation Mills —
of Elizabethton, Tenn., returned home on account of ©
illness, laid up three years, now recovering, in six
months hopes to be at work again. |

*J. Davis ReEp, Jr., 1 Crawford Place, Ports-
mouth, Va.

[ 20 |

 

T H E ASL ¢.U- MON

mm ___

Irvin W. Cusine, Carter-Gravely Bldg., Mar-
tinsburg, West Va., lawyer.

*OLDHAM CLARKE, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Ky., with Woodward, Hamilton and Hob-

son, lawyers.
*JuL1us GOLDSTEIN, 719 6th Ave., S.W., Roa-

noke, Va.

ReepD JOHNSTON, DuPont Bldg., Wilmington,
Del., and his bride, the former Helen Austin of New
York City, are now located in Wilmington, Del., where
Reed is managing the branch office of Francis I. Du
Pont & Co., New York brokerage house.

James CastTNER, 810 Broad St., Newark, N. J.,
practicing law in Newark, has recently passed the bar
examination of that state.

R. ALEXANDER Bate, 414 Brown Bldg, Louis-
ville, Ky., is now Doctor Bate. Recently graduated from
Medical school and started practice in Louisville, Ky.

*JoHn L. (JAcK) Stuart, Hillsdale, Baltimore,
Md., graduated from Union Theological Seminary in
1931, and is now pastor of a church in Hillsdale, Bal-
timore.

Jor B. Crowrr, Union Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., has just graduated with honors from
that seminary and will return next fall for the fellow-
ship of graduate study which he won.

RocER HALLER, Waynesboro, Va., was married re-
cently, this despite an automobile accident in which his
car came out second best with a train. He is located
in Waynesboro, Va., with the DuPont Rayon Mill.

Gray YEATMAN, Batesville, Ark., is manager of
the North Arkansas Commission Co., in Batesville.

ALFRED Boyp, Jr., 1110 Peabody Ave., Memphis,
Tenn., who two years ago was forced to resign from
the Commercial Credit Company in Atlanta because
of ill health, is feeling hale and hearty again after a
thorough rest at his home in Memphis.

*Wittiam C. Norman, Crosset, Ark., has the
distinction of remaining in the employ of the same
bank since leaving school, The Bank of Crosset. A
simple statement, but in Arkansas that’s avhievement!

*Rosert F. Howse, Stuttgart, Ark., went to Har-
vard and spent’ two years, got an M.A. in Business Ad-
ministration, went with the Mead Corporation (paper
mills) in Dayton, Ohio, covered the country and settled
in Lynchburg, Va., then went back home to help man-
age the family properties and market rice.

Joun E. Jones, Pittsburgh, Penn., is with the
Pittsburgh Post Gazette, editorial department.

Unknown Address
Letter to the following was returned. Informa-

tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
Norsert Ropert Crozier, Jr., Dallas, Texas.

I

MUA GAM “2 ria se

1927
323 men

Class-agent: *Zen H. Hernnon, McDowell Co., Bank
Bldg., Welch, West Va.

Buck (GREENBERRY) StmMons, Inter-Southern
Bldg., Louisville, Ky., of Simmons & Barker, attorneys.

*PRESTON Moore, Lexington, Va., teaches history
at Washington and Lee. Going back to Harvard this
fall to finish up work for his doctorate.

*Davip Curry Porter, Esom Hill, Ga., pres-
ident of Treat Orchard Co., growers of apples and
peaches, seven thousand four hundred acres, one hun-
dred and fifty employees. After leaving Washington
and Lee, did graduate work at University of Okla-
homa, went into the heart of Mexico as a mining en-
gineer, result eighteen months in the hospital, health
recovered among apples and peaches in Georgia, where
he has been for three years.

*Bunny (P. C.) Warrock, Covington, Va., is
a production executive in the Covington plant of the
West Virginia Pulp and Paper Co. Makes a fine paper
called “Westvaco.” Here for finals with his wife.
Bunny is one of the most active of the unofficial scouts
looking up prospects for new students and clinging to
them until they are settled here.

*W. E. Gace, Jr., 711 Falls Bldg., Memphis,
Tenn., in his family’s business, cotton farmers, W. A.
Gage & Co. Has recently seen “big old Buster New-
bern.” Disposes of his obligation handsomely in spite
of the luxury of recent matrimony.

ELprED Cayce, Columbia, Tenn., with the Tenn-
essee Electric Power Co.

Dr. CHARLES RANEy, 669 University Drive, Mem-

. phis, Tenn., practices medicine, has just graduated

from the University of Tennessee Medical College.

S. TatmMacE Macann, Crozier Theological Semi-
nary, Chester, Penn., completed graduate work at
Washington and Lee in 1928, now finishing his third
year in the divinity school, going into the Baptist min-
istry.

R. O. MiLttBank, 12 Charles Road, South Port-
land, Maine, engineer.

Verson E. Kemp, Monticello Hotel Bldg., Char-
lottesville, Va., executive secretary, Charlottesville,
and Albemarle County Chamber of Commerce.

Epwarb D. Fossrrr, Falmouth, Ky., agent West-
ern department Firemen’s Insurance Co., of Newark,
cordial, regretful.

Roy G. Nicuots, 217 35th St., Norfolk, Va., says
little of his career but is still singing. Hasn’t missed
a Finals in twelve years.

H. C. Harret, Box 84, Faculty Exchange, Uni-

[ 27 ]

1.44 2& ANZ. SA) 3M ON

versity of Chicago, Chicago, IIl., is in the department
of Greek.

CHartes G. Crockett, University Club, Pitts-
burgh, Penn., with the Aetna Life Insurance Co., of-
fices Chamber of Commerce Bldg.

GrorcE Wituits ParKEr, Tuckerton, N. J., edi-
tor and publisher of the ‘Tuckerton Beacon and Beach
Haven Times, Republican politician, president of the
Tuckerton Exchange Club, member of the County
Board of Classification and Appeals. Heads his own
committee on the selection and forwarding to Wash-
ington and Lee, good material of his community.

*Jor ArTHuR SMITH, JR., Hibernia Bank Bldg.,
New Orleans, La., left Washington and Lee in Janu-
ary, 1927, worked three years in Washington, D. C.,
returned home to Louisiana. Interested in everything
concerned with Washington and Lee, alive.

*GrorcE D. VARNEY, Berwick, Maine, the county
attorney for York.

*W.N. Porr, 517 West Sheppard St., Richmond,
Va., with Scott & Stringfellow.

*RussELL G. MILER, Williamsport, Md., loyal
and generous.

*ERWIN WEINSTEIN, 1101 Elm St., Lumberton,
S. C.

*NATHAN Cooper, 286 Grant Ave., Grantwood,
N. J.

~*Rapsr Davin H. Wick, Hebrew Union College,
Cincinnati, Ohio, entered the rabbinate in May.

*Dr. E. PENDLETON TomMPxKINs, University Hos-
pital, Philadelphia, Penn., next year will be assistant
resident in surgery.

I. D. Fevper, Jx., Blakely, Ga., writes from the
Phi Gamma Sigma House, Chapel Hill, N. C., continu-
ing work at the University of North Carolina.

J. K. Houck, 1234 Sledge St., Memphis, Tent.,
with the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co., Farnsworth
Bldg. The future seems bright.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

S. McA. Taytor, Mobile, Ala.

SAMUEL RuTHERFORD Hatt, Moorefield, W. Va.

HerMAN Henry HELLRIEGEL, Atlanta, Ga.

Joun BurcHeEtt Crewe, Haverford, Penn.

PENDLETON SouTHER, Philadelphia, Penn.

ALBERT VAUGHAN Cask, New York, N.Y.

Epwarp Raper JAcKSoN, Jr., New Orleans, La.

H. W. Wesst, Chicago, IIl.

Tsoomas Ivor Roserts, San Benito, Texas

GRAHAM CAMERON LyTLE, Charleston, West Va.

In Memoriam
Joun NEWTON GARBER, JR.

I

M iA GRAZ +1 EN ee

1926
294 men

Class-agent: *Basit G. WATKINS, attorney, Krise
Bldg., Lynchburg, Va. |

*Joun.R. VaNBuren, 41 Wilder Ave., Hoosick
Falls, N. Y., went to the medical school, University
of Rochester, with a classmate, Thomas R. Nichols,”
and stayed there two years. Then for two years with a |
national advertising agency. Since 1930 head of the sci-—
ence department of the Hoosick Falls high school. Plans_
for continuing Medicine only postponed. Soon to be
married to Miss Ruth Martin Lytle of Salem, N. Y,

*EARL L. VALENTINE, Lexington, Va., practices”
law in Lexington, specializes in damage law and is run-
ning for the House of Delegates. Reports upon Earl
Cadmus who is already there. |

*A RNOLD SCHLOSSBERG, R.F.D. 5, Roanoke, Va.,
is still at the Harvard Law School but soon will be
practicing.

*Davis Bett, Waynesboro, Va., confesses his af-
fection for Washington and Lee and the liveliness of
his memories.

*BurKE WitirAMson, 203 S. Dearborn St., Chi-
cago, Ill., gives only his address. |

*J. N. Witiams, Professional Bldg., Richmond,
Va., is practicing medicine. |

*RaLpH Daves, Lexington, Va., has managed the
theatres since 1926. He says the coming year looks
bright and he praises all of Washington and Lee’s pros-
pects.

*WiILLIAM C. BAxTsr, Batavia, N. Y., will be at
that address until the fall when he takes over a parish
of his own. He is just leaving a nursing home where
he has been since February recovering from a severe
attack of influenza. He is now almost well.

*CHARLES PorteR SNypeER, 305 Dunlap St.
Paris, Tenn., has words of praise, not blame, for the
depression since it causes an exchange of news of the
class of 1926. But he gives none of himself.

T. R. Hecxer, 3538 91st St., Jackson Heights,
N. Y., is a stockholder in one busted bank and a de-
positor in another, is not married or anything and has
no conventional news but a ripened sense of humor.

*NreLson W. Burris, Strykers Lane Community
Center, 554 West 53rd St., New York City, with
Clarence Sager, ’14, and Ed Lee, °13, is one of the
active, loyal, trustworthy alumni of the metropolis.

Hucu Bryson Grass, 11 Rockdell Lane, Bir-
mingham, Ala., asks “Who needs a chemist ?”

CorneEtius V. DEBrasco, has been in Europe the
past five years. |

*Fats (CLARENCE W.) Merapows, Beckley, West
Va., is the attorney of Raleigh County.

[ 28 ]

 

tT H E Aa 6 Us My N

ee :

J. D. Manonry, Chilhowie, Va., is head of the
committee of his community to influence the better
material to go to Washington and Lee.

*], R. HeENpRIX is in the trust department of the
Birmingham Trust and Savings Co., Birmingham, Ala.

*Snorty (Francis B.) Waters, Accomac, Va.,
‘5 an attorney. After graduation practiced in Tampa for
two years, then returned home to Accomac. Is politically
ambitious and will run for Commonwealth’s Attorney.
Was an oral supporter of F.D.R. Is single and com-
plains of it. Wants always to be kept in touch with all
alumni activities and will be indulged to the extent of
4 subscription to the Alumni Magazine.

*T’, T. Moors, State Bureau of Insurance and
Banking, Richmond, Va., in the service of the Great
Commonwealth.

*Mrver Lu GoopMaAn, Law Bldg., Norfolk, Va.,
is a member of the firm of Jackson, Goodman and Ca-
ton, certified public accountants, with certificates from
Virginia and North Carolina. Not a word about the
depression and many words of loyalty to Washing-
ton and l,ee, and cheer to all his friends.

Rk. A. Furron, 1818 First National Bank Bldg.,
Memphis, Tenn., is the local representative of the
Armstrong Cork Co.

Sran_ey H. Coortinc, 60 Mardhall St., Brook-
line, Mass.

*W. E. (Tex) Tirson, Lexington, Va., is foot-
ball coach at Washington and Lee.

FRANK P. SHuLL, Virginia Episcopal School,
Lynchburg, Va., is going abroad this summer for study
in a foreign school.

*A\. R. Coteman, Morris A-11, Soldiers Field,
Boston, Mass., is finishing a two years’ course at the
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.

Jack G. CuapMANn, 51 Perkins Hall, Cambridge,
Mass., is also in his second year of graduate work at
Harvard.

*CHARLES W. Lowry, 7 Panoramic Way, Berk-
eley, Cal., is just back from a two and a half years’
residence abroad.

Joun TreLepuus Lewis, Jacksonville, Fla.

MontcoMEry RipgNour, Hagerstown, Md.

Rosert Curster Smits, Greenville, S. C.

*KMMETY W. McCork eg, Jr., 15th and Carter
Ave., Ashland, Ky., with the Kentucky and West Vir-
ginia Power Co., Inc.

*IUGENE A. Nasors, Mansfield, La., at Tulane
University, New Orleans, La.

1925
292 men

Class-agent : *JoHN Cooper Morrison, Jr., Kanawha
Valley Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Va.

I

Mig ActeG t- As Zoo 2 er ee

CrypE ALLEN, 316 North 25th St., Richmond,
Va., with the Richmond Laundry Towel Supply, Linen
Service department, was “at home in Lexington” again
on Alumni Day and enjoyed it, was well repaid.

*Ginson WITHERSPOON, Lawyers Bldg., Merid-
ian Miss., of Witherspoon and Bryant, lawyers, after
leaving Washington and Lee practiced in Meridian
for a few years, then established his own firm, speaks
warmly of Dr. Gaines’ visit to Mississippi to deliver
the Commencement Day address at Mississippi State
College. 7
*HeNRY K. Hitt, Jr., Starks Bldg., Louisville,
Ky., general agent for Kentucky for the Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co., president of the Louis-
ville chapter of the Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation, have regular meetings, good attendance, live-
ly interest.

G. Epwin Heprick, High Point, N. C., with the
lexington Grocery Co., wholesale grocers. Remem-
bers the tender days of his freshman year particularly
and reports on a reunion with Washington and Lee
men at Durham (Duke).

*K. S. Marrinciy, Lexington, Va., registrar of
Washington and Lee, sees all, hears all, knows all.

*A. R. HAWKINS, Kyrock, Ky., lives in that com-
munity of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., whose
genius there, is also a genius here and among the alum-
ni everywhere, Harry St. George ‘Tucker Carmichael of
the class of 1899.

*GrEorGE T. CLARK, 1317 Biscayne Blvd., Miami,
Fla., of Clark & Ellis, lawyers, practical good wishes
and approval.

*C. W. Rex, 144 North Orange Ave., Orlando,
I‘la., secretary-treasurer of the Rex-McGill Investment
Co., Inc., real estate, brokerage, insurance, loans, prop-
erty management. “While it seems only a short time
since I was at Washington and Lee, nevertheless many
things have transpired in the meantime. I am now
married and have a four-old son. This year I am vice-
president of the local Kiwanis Club, and also one of
the organization members of the recently organized
American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers. Many
times I have wondered just what has happened to the
members of my class. Being so scattered over the
United States, it has been very difficult to keep track
of many except those who were close personal friends
in college.”

Marvin I. Watton, Masonic Temple Bldg., Dan-
ville, Va., attorney and counsellor at law, has visited
the World’s Fair.

Hunter H. Hancock, Bluefield, West Va., with
C. B. Hancock, stocks and bonds, mentions Merk,
and Eddie.

Bruck F. GAnNoway, 715 Kaye St., West Palm

[ 29 |

ASS OE ae

sé.

Ee

Beach, Fla., joined the Florida Conference of the
Methodist Church in 1930, was in Key West for a
year and a half, now in West Palm Beach, calls his
church a “Boom Church,” suffering greatly from the
collapse.

LutHer E. Reynorps, Jr., 2216 Arlington Ave.,
Birmingham, Ala., is cordial, sincere. ~

F. Gorvon Hupcrns, Newport News, Va., of
- Hudgins & Hudgins, lawyers, likewise.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

BENJAMIN CAMPBELL BLAKE, Smithfield, Va.

kK. V. Buppie, Jr., Richmond, Va.

Wo. ZerAu Davipson, Brookville, Penn.

E. L. Gru-morg, Jr., care of Norman Bel Geddes,
New York City.

G. C. Houcuins, Jr., Pearesville, Va.

R. B. Houcuins, Pearesville, Va.

J. KE. Jounson, Radford, Va.

G. R. McAtistEr, Ocean City, N. J.

P. C. MANNING, Sewanee, Tenn.

Lours GerRNDoFF Norvety, Los Angeles, Cal.

K. S. Princk, Norfolk, Va.

C. S. Rooks, Humbolt, Texas

B. W. SuTHERLAND, JR., Mount Olive, N. C.

B. F. Warp, Memphis, Tenn.

P. B. Yates, Baltimore, Md.

Informa-

1924
260 men

Class-agent : *W. GooprincE SALE, JR., Welch, W. Va.

*Dr. JosepH S. McMarn, 421 Burns Ave., Wy-
oming, Cincinnati, Ohio, general practice in this suburb
of Cincinnati for the past three years. Received his
M.D. from Atlanta in 1928, then two years as interne
in the Cincinnati General Hospital.

*Joun W. GREENE, Bankers Trust Bldg., Knox-
ville, Tenn., of Greene and Ambuster, lawyers. ‘“Talk-
ing for the record, I might report about myself: I am
engaged in the practice of law; am single and am en-
joying life as well as can be expected, provided I do
not expect too much. Bill McCallum, the other Wash-
ington and I.ee alumnus of our group, took unto him-
self a bride about a month ago. Outside of these minor
items, deponent sayeth not.”

*Joun F. Hernvon, 1615 North Third Ave.,
Birmingham, Ala., writes pleasantly: “I sympathize
with you in having to make an appeal in behalf of our
Alumni Association at this time but I commend you for
doing it and emphasize that you are certainly justi-
fied in doing so. My reign as banana king (in Central
America with United Fruit Co.) was rather short,

I

MA Ga Zz. I Ne

lasting only a year and a half. I abdicated in 1925.
Since that time I have been struggling for a living in
the automobile storage and service business. I am glad
to know where you are and what you are doing al-
though I had heard through Allan Rushton that you
were practicing law. I know that your energetic thor-
oughness is giving you success in your profession.
And that is not flattery.”

Joun W. Guerrant, Richmond, Va., of the Vir-
ginia Paper Co., offices in Richmond, Washington and
Jacksonville, congratulates his class-agent upon two
daughters, boasts of one.

“Sarco” (J. W.) Fircnerr, Union Bank Bldg.,
Huntington, West Va., attorney at law, his own office,
since 1926. Writes in friendly mood, thankful for
the opportunity.

* ALFRED H. Grirritu, Buena Vista, Va., lawyer,
practices, helps run the town, has been Mayor.

*FREDERICK N. Mercer, 29 Ryerson St., Brooklyn,
N. Y., “his heart and soul are in it,” and he proves it.

*Wittiam C. McKnicu’, Demarest, N. J., presi-
dent and treasurer of the Aroma Laboratories, manu-
facturers of fine flavoring extracts and allied products,
fruit syrups, crushed fruits for soda fountains.

*EppreE M. CAMERON, Durham, N. C., football
coach at Duke, was here for Finals, exuberant, refresh-
ing, optimistic.

*Rrv. J. N. Tuomas, Bedford, Va., working on
his Ph. D., assistant professor of Religious Education
and Chaplain at Hollins College.

*JosepH E. Birnie, Eighth and Main Sts., Rich-
mond, Va., The Morris Plan Bank, in charge of their
Petersburg branch, his branch in Petersburg being the
only bank in Petersburg to reopen without restrictions
after the closing by Presidential order in March. Re-
cently moved to the head office.

*CHARLES A. ConiéNn, 297 Broadway, New York
City, brief but pleasant remembrances, now practic-
ing law.

*Dr. LyMAN H. Harris, Jr., Knox College, Gales-
burg, Ill., taught at McCallie for several years, got his
Ph. D., and moves on to University of Omaha this
fall. Is still single.

In Memoriam
James Witson McCartTNeEy
April 18, 1933
Killed in an airplane crash

1923
206 men
Class-agent: Joun W. McCatium, Maryland Casual-
ty Co., Knoxville, Tenn.
There was no general response from the class of
1923 in time to report in this number of the Magazine.

[ 30 ]

 

a. Pers? US EN

Letters have been sent to all members, asking for their
contributions and letters of news to be sent direct to
the Alumni Secretary in Lexington. A report will be
made in the fall number.

*D. R. (Toap) SNnivELy, Hagerstown, Md., with
the Hagerstown Leather Co.

*THoMAS J. Exxis, 1317 Biscayne Blvd., of Clark
and Ellis, lawyers, is the second to fill in the gap
of 1923.

1922
213 men

Class-agent: *Jox 1, SiLversTEIN, Charleston Nation-
al Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Va.

*RosertT M. Bear, Dartmouth, College, Hanover,
N. H., associate in the Department of Education, was
in Lexington last fall. “We are well acquainted with
alumni funds here at Dartmouth, having raised some
hundred thousand or more that way each year since
my coming. ‘There is a feature which touches those of
us who are not Dartmouth alumni. Many of us on the
faculty give toward the fund each year when the drive
literature is sent out. It is sent to faculty as well as
alunini. ‘This is a wonderful institution in many ways
and we see our luck in being here to the extent of show-
ing our appreciation of all it is doing. We have every
year about 2,200 students, a faculty of 250, a magnifi-
cent program of activities and everything else attract-
ive.”

Epcar Jackson, 185 Orleans Circle, Norfolk,
Va., teaches in the high school, has warm and loyal re-
membrances.

Ratpo P. Hanckr, Lathrop Bldg., Kansas City,
Mo., manager Casualty department, Maryland Casual-
ty Co.

W. Epwin Nescerr, Lunenberg, Va.

Dr. Huston Sv. Crarr, Bluefield, West Va., is
in his father’s business, working for his interests,
practically giving up his profession (medicine), doing
special work, executive and research, for the Virginia
Smokeless Coal Co., exclusive miners and shippers of
Jewel Pocahontas Coal.

R. D. Bracksurn, 203 Spring St., N.W., At-
lanta, Ga., with the American Discount Co. of Georgia.

Louis Duntop, Pulaski, Va., with the Pulaski
Veneer Corporation, manufacturers of cabinet ply-
wood, face veneers, dimension walnut lumber.

**Dr. Huston Sr. CLarr, Bluefield, West Va.
Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned.
ation requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Inform-

Witt1am HaAmILton Barrett, Ivy Depot, Va.
FRANK BryANtT BEAZLEY, Richmond, Va.

I

at As eS og ee

PAUL WINFRED GLENN, Roanoke, Va.

Prosper WuitN&ty PEDEN, Houston, Texas

JAMES MerriLt RusskE tt, Cleveland, Ohio

CHARLES WILLIAM SNypoR THOMPSON, Martins-
burg, West Va.

1921
222 men

Class-agent: * THOMAS X. Parsons, Colonial-Ameri-
can National Bank Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

Cartton E. Jewerr, .Mutual Bldg., Richmond,
Va., attorney at law, was unable to come for Finals, as
he hoped he might, has a daughter, Miss Beverley Grey
Jewett, born Sept. 18, 1932, reads the Alumni Maga-
zine (the father) likes it, is good enough to say so.

WititrAm A. Griprons, Jr., Roanoke, Va., with
the Liberty Trust Co.

*R. C. Woop, Jr., Lynchburg, Va., attorney at
law, is close and often in Lexington.

WititiAm C. Kern, 8 East Market St., Indian-
apolis, Ind., transferred to Princeton, took his degree

_there.

*J. B. Hoxe, P. O. Box 676, Martinsburg, West
Va., with the Interstate Amiesite Co., Inc., of Wilming-
ton, Del., being concerned with their sales in the dis-
trict of Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, expresses an honest opinion frankly,
without giving or meaning offense and is published
herewith as proof of the earnestness and sincerity he
looks for. “It is indeed good to have heard from you
after so many years away from the Campus and I want
to assure you of my cooperation in every way toward a
better and closer relationship between the alumni. It
seems to me that in the past ten years the Alumni As-_
sociation and alumni activities in general have been
a complete joke in every instance. In the past I have
subscribed to their wishes and schemes for betterment,
that usually being the last I heard for a year or two,
then somebody pops up with a new and different scheme
that has with the same rapidity trod the path to fail-
ure. I am however enclosing you a check and will
later consider a more substantial contribution, if I
find the Association is functioning with some real
earnestness. I am sure if the other active members
are of the caliber of yourself and Troque Moore on
the Committee, the entire thing cannot help but be a
success and I am hoping you will feel free to call upon
me for any contribution of service desired.”

~*B. F. Howarp, Welch, West Va., Judge of the
Eighth Judicial Court, comprising McDowell and Min-
go Counties, gives freely and feels generously.

Roy J. Grimvey, Realty Bldg., 7 North Broad St.,
Ridgewood, N. J., counsellor at law. “It has been
more than eight years since I have been to Washington

[ 31 ]

Biceaer: B Aa Ee ah DS

and Lee although I have attended all the athletic con-
tests that have taken place in this part of the coun-
try. I was very glad to hear from you as I have been
wondering what has happened to many in the class of
1921. Frequently I see some of them who happen to
be in and around New York. I had the pleasure of
playing bridge with Emmett Poindexter. You will no
doubt recall him as Secretary of the Student Council
during our last year. You may rest assured that I
have the interest of Washington and Lee at heart. In
the past several years I secured the attendance of sev-
eral boys from this vicinity.”
*JoHN Br ti, Tampa, Fla., of Knight, Thompson
and Turner, sends practical good wishes for success.
*FRANK M. Pottock, Bluefield, West Va., Brad-
man Bldg., an adjuster in the Fire Companies Ad-
justment Bureau, Inc., Southeastern department, has
news. “Jeb Stuart spent a few days with me recently.
He is manager of a cannery in Maryland but I gath-
ered from what he said that he might be back on the
farm soon. Sheeney Thornburg also visited me soon
after Jeb’s trip. He is still living in Huntington.”
Joun L. Parrerson, Pierce Bldg., St. Louis, Mo.
Manager Eastern Missouri department of the Massa-
chusetts Bonding and Insurance Co., fidelity and surety
bonds and casualty insurance, wants to be counted in.
*Davip D. Jonnson, 1612 Bendum-Trees Bldg.,
Pittsburgh, Penn., says: “Regards, X,” and encloses.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

BENJAMIN D. Harrripce, West Palm Beach, Fla.
HARVEY ENLOE, JR., Roanoke, Va.

Witiiam JT. McGowin, Jr., Birmingham, Ala.
Joun W. Leicu, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.
ALEXANDER S. JOHNSON, Augusta, Ga.

WaLtER A. DrumMonp, Aiken, S. C.

1920
196 men

Class-agent: *Morris H. Hester, Krise Bldg.,
Lynchburg, Va.

*R. M. Hutrcueson, Roanoke, Va., Virginia In-
surance Rating Bureau, also Bob, not to be confused
with Bob of Lexington of the class of 1910.

*JoHN Dryer, 70 Broadway, New York City, of
Larkin, Rathbone and Perry, Central Hanover Bank
and Trust Company Bldg.

*RANDOLPH M. CABELL, Box 422, Covington, Va.
In the coal business, retired from the Alumni Board of
Trustees, class-agent for 1920, next year.

*MaurIcE B. Perkin, Hotel Traymore Block,
Atlantic City, N. J., of Peikin, Inc., exclusive art cre-

I

Ue Cee. ol ee es

ations from over the seas for American Homes, rep-
resentatives in Paris and New York.

CHESTER S. SHADE, Martinsburg, West Va., re-
moved there from California.

*RaLPH D. HummMEL, 1057 Beaconsfield, Grosse
Pointe Park, Mich.

*ERSKINE JOHNSTON, American Sugar Refining
Co., 120 Wall St., New York City.

R. Hence Younc, 801 West Superior St., Alma,
Mich., undimmed loyalty and affection.

*i. W. PornpExtErR, 25 Broad St., New York
City, approves the whole plan, sponsorship, class fund
and annual giving.

Jor Hosson, Prestonsburg, Ky., of Hill and Hob-
son, lawyers.

H. F. Mapison, Jr., 619 Bernhardt Bldg., Mon-
roe, La., of Madison, Madison & Fuller, lawyers, with
offices in Bastrop and Monroe.

Leicnh H. Hanes, Mountain Trust Bldg., Roa-
noke, Va.

IX. A. Stuck, Jonesboro, Ark., architect, getting
his degree in architecture at Washington University
in St. Louis. |

ArtHUR O. Dunn, 209 Lincoln Ave., Youngs-
town, Ohio, also an architect, domestic, landscape and
decoration, also owns and operates a stone quarry.
Offers service, proves sincere loyalty.

Haroip G. Rogerson, Roanoke, Va., banker.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

GEORGE IRA KEENER, Weston, West Va.
Louis L. Overton, Nashville, N. C.
Joun Buus, Jr., Radford, N. C.

Joun Puitiips Warts, Ravenwood, Va.

1919
99 men

Class-agent: *L¥ONARD T. Brown, Lott-Merlin Co.,
Inc., Bridgeport, Conn.

*ALEX WALKER, Apt. 203-B, 4700 Connecticut
Ave., Washington, D. C. ‘Knowing it would interest
him, I took the liberty of sending your comparative
analysis of alumni fund results to President Clothier,
of Rutgers, a friend who wrote me they were in the
midst of some problem and that he was especially
glad to have those figures. Let me congratulate you,
and Cy and all others concerned in your apparent effort
to enlist everybody rather than a few, which I believe
will prove wise not only under the possible exigencies
of the moment but in the long range as well.”

Jonn R. Topp, Jr., Kingsport, Tenn. “After
serving as a member of the Senate of the Sixty-Eighth

[ 32 |

TT H E A i, U. Mx N

General Assembly of ‘Tennessee, for the year 1933,
I am back in my law office in Kingsport, following
my profession. I am always interested to hear of the
growth and progress of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. It is a shrine of precious memories, and as the
years glide by, the University in my opinion will rise
higher and higher in the minds of the people of the
Southland, and she has a heritage that cannot be ex-
celled. Here’s wishing you and the other alumni of
Washington and Lee University, all the success and
happiness that life affords.”

Dr. Gites S. Terry, 5 Oakwood Place, Scars-
dale, N. Y., has been practicing in Scarsdale about a
year.

*WiLLIAM F, Barron, 106 Fifth Ave., Rome,
Ga., visited Lexington in the spring, saw Harry Burns
recently in Rome.

THomaAS W. GILiiAM, Lynchburg National Bank
and ‘Trust Co., Lynchburg, Va., assistant cashier.

*W. J. DuNGAN, Augusta, Ark., lawyer.

*Gus A. Frircuie, Slidell, La., lawyer, studied
law at Tulane University after leaving Washington
- and Lee, practicing since 1922, married, one child.

CHARLES KupFsr, 122 East 42nd St., New York
City, counsellor at law.

*F RANK H. Jacoss, Jr., Bel Air, Md., counsellor
at law.

J. W. McKown, ‘Waynesboro, Penn., of Wolf &
McKown, household furnishings of every sort.

J. R. Farn, Winston-Salem, N. C., president The
Morris Plan Bank.

*Dr. ReEmpD Wuire, Jr., Lexington, Va., is taking
his father’s place in the community and is physician
of the University.

Jess—E M. Jounson, Mutual Bldg., Richmond,
Va., lawyer.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Joun LeRoy GLover, Hammond, La.

JAMES MARSHALL JENNINGS, Akron, Ohio

Informa-

In Memoriam

Lee WINstTon LAWSON
June 20, 1932

1918
269 men
Class-agent: *Ovro M. Stumpr, Mutual Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.
Homer A. Hort, attorney-general of the State of
West Virginia, Charleston, West Va.
Avam B. Bowman, Sells Bldg., Johnson City,
enn., of Simmonds & Bowman, lawyers.

I

Mi Ay Ge A @ Ta aS

Joun L. McCuorp, 308 Euclid Avenue Bldg.,
Cleveland, Ohio, of Calfee and Fogg, lawyers, was
married June 22nd in Atlanta, and brought his bride
to Lexington on their way north.

AvotpeH S. Marx, 625 Ryan St., Lake Charles,
La., with the Muller Co., Ltd., “everything men, wom-
en and children wear,’ spent a day in Lexington in
March for the first time in twelve or fifteen years and
enjoyed it.

*MatrHew W. Paxton, Jr., Lexington, Va.,
attorney at law, active in many alumni affairs, athletic
and chapel committees particularly.

C. R. McCoy, Dickenson County Bank Bldg.,
Clintwood, Va., of McCoy, Rose and Rush, lawyers.

GrorcE M. MclauGuiin, Charleston, West Va.

*Ilrancis ‘T. CoLk, 401 Broadway, New York
City, sent one of the earliest contributions.

**HomeER A. How, Fayetteville, West Va.

S.A. T. C.—1918

*W. H. Lewis, Jr., National Bank Examiner,
717 Kirst National Bank Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

*JAMES B. Graves, 1127 West Washington St.,
Petersburg, Va.

1917
172 men

Class-agent: *JAcKSON R. Cottins, 2 Lafayette St.,
New York City

*Bitty (W. J.) Cox, 51 Prospect St., New Hav-
en, Conn., is in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale
University, department of Engineering Mechanics. “I
think this alumni fund idea is a good one. Here at
Yale, where incidentally, support of the college by the
alumni is developed to a very unusual degree, all alum-
ni are asked to make a contribution each year, just as
the Washington and Lee alumni have been asked.
‘There is, however, this difference. The reunion class-
es, those which have been out five, ten, fifteen, etc.,
years, generally make a larger contribution than the
classes which are not holding reunions. ‘The contri-
butions of the reunion classes are considered as a capi-
tal fund which in the case of Yale, over a period of
some forty years has gradually grown to a size where
the annual income from it is a very considerable thing.
The annual contributions of the classes which are not
holding reunions are put into the current expense ac-
count of the University. In this way, each alumnus,
no matter how small his contributions, can feel that
he is both helping along from year to year, and con-
tributing to the permanent welfare of the college. I
don’t know whether this idea is applicable to Wash-
ington and Lee or not, but it might be worth some
consideration.”

[ 33 ]

i XE Ae a a ee oe

I

MAS Gee 2 ee

 

*Dr. R. Grenn Craic, 490 Post St., San Fran-
cisco, Cal. “It has been a long time since I have seen
you and my residence in San Francisco prevents me
from getting back to Washington and Lee very often.
I suppose there may be some other Washington and
lee men in San Francisco but I have never seen them.
You ask for a news report and perhaps this biography
will be self-explanatory :

“Office, 490 Post St., by appointment (Douglas
5343); residence, Fairmont Hotel (Douglas 8800) ;
Assistant Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology. A.B., Washington and Lee University, 1917;
M.D., Johns Hopkins, 1922; Resident House Officer,
Johns Hopkins Hospital, 1922-23; Assistant in Path-
ology, Johns Hopkins Medical School, 1923-24; As-
sistant and Instructor in Gynecology, 1923-27; Assist-
ant Resident in Gynecology, Johns Hopkins Hospital,
1923-26; Resident Gynecologist, 1926-27. Clinical
study in Europe 1927-28. At Stanford since 1928.
In addition I am a member of the American Board of
Gynecology and Obstetrics and a member of the Pa-
cific Coast Obstetrical and Pathological Society. That
about concludes my professional record. As far as my
other activities are concerned, I have worked so hard
I have not had time to marry and therefore have no
children. San Francisco is a nice place to live. Ex-
cept that it is so far away from my old haunts I find
it satisfactory in every way. Remember me to my
classmates.”

*CHARLIE IT’. Lice, 575 South Negley Ave., Pitts-
burgh, Penn., promises a renewed activity of the Pitts-
burgh alumni.

*Dr. CHarces MecNirvr, 114 East 62nd St., New
York City, highly endorses the movement.

*Hersert G. Prrers, Jr., Bristol, Va.-Tenn., of
the law firm of Peters, Lavinder, Peters and Rouse,
praises the movement, and those in charge of it.

*Bitt (W. O.) Burrner, 725 Fifteenth St.,
N.W., Washington, D. C., financial secretary of the
national headquarters, the Federal Bar Association,
feels strongly all the ties in Lexington.

*FRANK J. GILLIAM, Lexington, Va., dean of stu-
dents, Washington and Lee. Congratulates himself
and Bruce Morrison and Curtis Humphries upon their
pleasant fate in Lexington.

*Cy (H. K.) Younc, Lexington, Va., alumni
secretary, football and basketball coach.

Jimmig (JAmEs A.) Ler, McGraw-Hill Bldg.,
330 West 42nd St., New York City, with Chemical and
Metallurgical Engineering.

Tomas MitTcHELt Pirrs, Indianola, Miss.

R. E. Moors, Ferrum, Va., agricultural instructor
of the Ferrum Training School for worthy boys and

girls, approves activity of both the alumni as an or-  —

ganization and the football team.

E. P. Barrow, Lawrenceville, Va., attorney at
law, regrets, reluctantly, but supports the University,
its prospects, its president with no reluctance.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
THomas Rowan Hamivton, Washington, D. C.
MarSHALL Gorpon TwyMAN, Miami, Fla.
James LEE SANbIpcE, Princeton, N. J.
Mayo CLINTON SPEAREN, Fayetteville, West Va.

Informa-

1916

141 men

Class-agent : *REUBEN A. Lewis, JR., second vice-pres-
ident the Continental Illinois National Bank and
Trust Co., Chicago, Ill., the largest bank in the
middle west. Reuben is engaged in commercial
bankifty, handling accounts in the eastern territory.

*Dr. Frank M. Leecu, Lexington, Va., the lead-
ing surgeon of the community, successful, popular, re-
cently made fellow American College of Surgeons.

*JAMES J. Izarp, Colonial National Bank Bldg.,
Roanoke, Va., of Chas. Lunsford & Sons, insurance.

*Dusty (RussEtt S.) Ruoprs, Chamber of Com-
merce, Tyler, ‘Texas, general manager Chamber of
Commerce of Tyler. Has attended three consecutive
sessions of the National Institute for Commercial Or-
ganization Executives at Northwestern.

*JOHN SHIRLEY RiLky, Box 246, Roanoke, Va., —
Coca-Cola bottling business, drives his own plane, just —
bought a new one. Shirley is an aeronautic enthus-
iast, but prefers to have his own pilot do the sky man-
agement of his plane.

*H. J. Kiser, Wise, Va., attorney at law in the
First National Bank Bldg. Is often in Lexington, av-
eraging once a year. Watches things and feels that
the University is making progress. Optimistic about
athletics.

*W. M. Farrar, Jr., Jefferson Road, Short Hills,
N. J., has a voung son, two older daughters.

*Ropert M. Curtis, 1201 Allendale St., Pros-
pect Hills, Roanoke, Va., assistant manager of the
‘Times-World Corporation, publishers of the Roanoke
Times, a morning paper, and the Roanoke World
News, an afternoon paper; was here for Alumni Day
and seemed to enjoy it.

*C, Lyncu CuristiAn, 2 Oakwood Place, Lynch-
burg, Va., with the Imperial Coal Sales Company, high
grade steam, domestic, and by-product coal.

*SELDEN S. McNEeEr, Huntington Banking and
Trust Co., Huntington, West Va.

[ 34 ]

 

> Eee Pererass US. Re Ro ME! A Gt Ae 2 he

**WittiAM A. WricuH’, Tappahannock, Va. the Houston office of Rodgers & Co., of Norfolk, Va.,
**JOHN . SHIRLEY RuiLky, Coca-Cola Bottling cotton merchants.

Works, Roanoke, Va. *WaLteR C. Preston, Procter & Gamble, Ivory-

1915 dale, Ohio, is in the chemical division of the makers of

36 soi Ivory Soap. For ten years he has been in charge of

Class-agent: *K1 Wutitams, DuPont Rayon Co.,
Waynesboro, Va.

*RosBertT P. ApaAms, Trenton, Tenn., is a member
of the firm of Taylor, Adams & Freeman.

W. W. Casu, Jr., Lynchburg, Va., recently chief
chemist with the Lavino Furnace Company at Lynch-
burg. For the past eighteen years his experience has
covered analytical research and engineering chemistry
and metallurgy with several iron companies.

C. C. CHAMBERS, Logan, W. Va., is practicing law.

R. H. CoLeMAN, Bardwell, Ky., is with the engi-
neering branch of the State Highway Commission,
Commonwealth of Kentucky.

*CarL FisuHer, 4310 Kathland Ave., Baltimore,
Md., has been illuminating engineer for the Consoli-
dated Gas, Electric Light and Power Co., for the past
nine years. He is married, has two daughters, reports
with pride that the third Omicron Delta Kappa dis-
tinguished service key was awarded to him at Johns
Hopkins, April 27, Wm. Brown officiating.

Woovson P. Houcuton, Southern Bldg., Wash-
ington, D. C., is a member of the firm of Ellis, Fer-
guson, Houghton and Gary.

HrrMAN Hampton, 805 Kirby Bldg., Houston,
Texas, is the manager of the Houston Mutual Insur-
ance Agency. Has been in Little Rock, Ark., and
Kansas City and now in Houston. Reports on Cochie
Neal in Houston, Walter Steves, Bob Witt and Rosey
Glass in San Antonio.

G. G. JoyngEs, Jr., Onancock, Va., is assistant
cashier of the First National Bank and absorbed in
its affairs.

W. Guy Laucuon, Jefferson Standard Bldg.,
Greensboro, N. C., is branch manager of the Sun Life
Assurance Co., of Canada, for the states of North
and South Carolina. For two years after graduation,
practiced law, since then in the insurance business,
first in Roanoke and for six years in Greensboro. Has
three daughters, 15, 13 and 9.

GrorcE B. LAmMpton, Columbia, Miss., is a mer-
chant, “Lampton Company,” wholesale and retail. Af-
ter leaving Washington and Lee went to the Univer-
sity of Mississippi from which he received his degree
by post, being in camp preparatory to the late world
unpleasantness.

Lorine G. Kacktey, Berryville, Va., is an attor-
ney, enthusiastic about alumni plans.

*GEORGE S. Morrison, Houston, Texas, manages

the Soap Research Laboratory. At Chemical Society
meetings he has run into Whetzel and Jimmy Lee. He
is homesick for Virginia.

*Witt H. Smiru, Box 686, Ardmore, Okla., is
quite satisfied with life.

*T. H. Sruxrs, Manning, S. C., practices law,
supports a wife and two children thereby, a girl of
eight, a boy of six and for recreation has been a mem-
ber of the State Senate since 1927 and of the State
Democratic Executive Committee.

*C. W. Switzer, Empire State Bldg., New York,
is Director of Production of DuPont Cellophane Co.

R. W. Wytis, Ellwood City, Penn., is receiver
for the First National Bank of that city.

*Stuart Moore, Lexington, Va., practices law,
has been on the bench, juvenile court and domestic re-
lations, is treasurer of the Washington and Lee Alum-
ni, Inc., modest, loyal, untiring, unselfish, irreplace-
able. His letter to his class-agent is published com-
plete elsewhere.

*T esLiE S. ANpERSON, Mayfield, Ky., in the to-
bacco business with J. L. Sherrill & Co., asks for ad-
dresses of all his friends, responds with undisguised
enthusiasm.

Rk. N. Larrure, University of Chicago, Evanston,
Ill., is on leave from Washington and Lee pursuing
further studies, returning in September.

Mitton B. RocgErs, 100 William St., New York
City, is vice-president of the Community Water Serv-
ice Company, prompt, generous, practical in his en-
thusiasm for all alumni plans.

*Isaac D. Smiru, Petersburg, West Va., prac-
tices law.

*JoHN W. McCreapy, Demopolis, Ala., in the
Baptist ministry, is a sportsman, hunts deer and will
visit Virginia and Kentucky this summer.

G. Rosert SuHaAw, Harrison, N. J. Bob is mar-
ried and has four children. He was with General Elec-
tric Co. for ten years working on lamps and radio tubes.
Now with Radiotron Co., doing chemical and research
work, major interest in field of electronics.

** ARTHUR M. BrirpsaLt, 704 10th Ave., Bel-
mar, N. J.

** Mitton B. Rocrsrs, 100 William St., New York

**Woopson P. Houcnton, Southern Bldg.,
Washington, D. C.

In Memoriam
*ROBERT NEWTON Kreps
April 23, 1930

[ 35 |

Ak Te A a

I

Min At) Ga Bee In Nee

 

1914
139 men

Class-agent : *CLARENCE L. Sacer, of Holton and Fos-
ter, counsellors at law, 26 Broadway, New York City

*JupGE Howe i M. Tanner, Bluefield, West Va.,
Ninth Judicial Circuit Court.

*EpwarD M. Craic, Jr., 3515 78th St., Jackson
Heights, New York. Civil engineer in the employ of
the Board of Water Supply of the City of New York,
address 346 Broadway.

Dr. Joun W. Baytor, “Wardell,” Cedar Bluff,
Va., ill for the past five years, unable to practice med-
icine,

*A. W. McCain, 18 Pine St., New York City,
never fails to respond.

*Dr. VANN M. Marruews, 824 East Trade St.,
Charlotte, N. C. “I was graduated in medicine from
University of Pennsylvania in 1918, entered the Navy
as Lieutenant of Medical Corps in June, 1918, and
served in the U. S. Naval Hospital in Philadelphia,
and later on a troop ship, U. S..S. Panaman, until Sep-
tember, 1919. Interned in hospitals in New York until
September, 1920, since then I have been practicing in
Charlotte, N. C. I was married in New York in Janu-
ary, 1921. We are still living together and are very
happy, have no children. If we ever get legal advice
I will call on you.”

*C, H. Morrisserr, Box 453, Richmond, Va., an
important man with great responsibilities, who has time
always for those contacts that please and sweeten the
recreational affairs of life, among them his unfailing
courtesy and generosity to Washington and Lee.

*RocER J. Bear, Cincinnati, Ohio, an executive
in the great grocery house of Kroger. “Certainly we
all have a warm spot in our hearts for Washington and
Lee and realize that its traditions have meant much to
us in life’s struggles.”

*Junius L. PowEtt, 90 John St., New York City,
Chubb and Son, underwriters. Is always interested in
the alumni work.

Emory G. Nusz, Market St., Frederick, Md.

A. S. Cummins, Natural Bridge, Va., teaches in
the high school.

*CHARLES W. Crusu, Christiansburg, Va. Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, assures us always of his keen
interest in Washington and Lee.

“Richmond, Va., April 27—Charles W. Crush,
Commonwealth’s Attorney of Montgomery County, in
the Sixth Congressional District, may announce for
Attorney-General of Virginia, in the August primary
in opposition to Attorney-General John R. Saunders.
Mr. Crush is a young lawyer with nine years service
as Commonwealth’s Attorney of Montgomery County.

former Judge Advocate of the American Legion, Judge
Advocate of the 40 and 8, and Judge Advocate of the
Sons of Confederate Veterans. He was an enlisted
man in France during the war, and has been active in
veteran’s relief work. Mr. Crush has been active in
politics in the Sixth District and in state affairs for
years, and is an aide on the staff of Governor Pollard.
He is district chairman of the Veterans’ Democratic
League and one of the organizers of the Young Demo-
cratic Clubs. From Christiansburg, J. H. Stephens,
secretary of the Democratic Party of Montgomery
County, has issued this statement: ‘In recognition of
the splendid work of the young Democrats and the
veterans in the recent presidential campaign, we feel
that we are entitled to representation on the slate of
the State Democratic ticket, and are putting forward
a progressive young man, representative of the mem-
bers of the Veterans’ Democratic League and the Young
Democratic Clubs, in Charles Crush for Attorney-Gen-
eral in the Democratic primary.”

FreD M. Davis, 209 Main St., Lynchburg, Va.

Kitiwoop H. Sear, Tower Bldg., Washington,
D. C,. lawyer, is interested always.

KENNON C. WuirtLe, Martinsville,
Whittle & Whittle, lawyers.

Frank M. Brower, Price, Md., of Brower and
Beaven, dealers in grain, seed, flour, feed and coal,
sends a cheering word of optimism.

*FRraNcIS P. MiILver, Fairfax, Va., is chairman
of the World’s Student Christian Federation with Eu-
ropean offices in Geneva, 13 rue Calvin. “If a letter
for a contribution had come from any other person or
for any other cause I would have sent the politest and
firmest refusal. All this is evidence of the extent of
my devotion to Alma Mater! When I was in Lexing-
ton mother told me of her pleasure at seeing you when
you passed through there some weeks ago. I hope to
be in Lexington again tomorrow night as I have to
lecture at Mary Baldwin’s in the afternoon. My work
for the Federation requires so much traveling that the
time spent at home is very much less than it ought to
be. I shall, however, be here for the next two weeks
and for four weeks between the 25th of June and the
2ist of July. Toward the end of July I am leaving
on a five months’ tour around the world with rather
long visits in China and Japan. Sometime when I am
in New York I should like very much to tell you about
the work the Federation is doing now as I am sure that
you would find this extremely interesting.”

*BERKELEY Cox, Hartford, Conn., with the Aetna
life Insurance Co., gives, writes cheerfully.

*J. A. BurKE, Appomattox, Va., resident agent,
Southern department, the Newark Insurance Co. “If
I could do justice to my desire and spirit, it would be

Va., of

[ 36 ]

T ee Aw 0 MeN

a very large contribution indeed. I have never lost
my interest in Washington and Lee and will do any-
thing I can to help further the service it is rendering
to the country. I hope very much that you will be
successful in getting a large percentage of the class
of 1914 to contribute. It is certainly a pleasure to
hear from you again and recall the pleasant association
at Washington and Lee.”

*LEE R. Grasitt, Jr., Wilmington, Del., in the
legal department, patent division of E. I. DuPont de
Nemours & Co., good wishes in everything.

*W. T. Lovins, 419 First Huntington National
Bank Bldg., Huntington, West Va., of Marcum, Lov-
ins and Gibson, attorneys and counsellors, is reflective
and causes remembrances of years ago to start, as for
instance, the time when he arose solemnly in Chapel
and with all the eloquence of a Patrick Henry, said,
“Gentlemen, this Constitution is rotten to the core.”
“The letter of Dr. Gaines only reflects the conditions in
practically all private institutions of learning, as well
as business and professional undertakings. ‘This is a
regrettable condition but I hope that better days are
coming. I note with some interest the contributions
made in 1931. Many of the schools shown on the re-
port have wealthy alumni, but one of the many advan-
tages of Washington and Lee is that it has always been
a place for learning to be acquired regardless of wealth
or station. You may characterize Washington and Lee
as a place where the democracy of the intellect is
taught. What we lack in money we make up in glori-
ous ideals, which after all are more pleasant and en-
during than possession of material wealth. I would
rather be an impractical idealist and enjoy life than
to be a disillusioned possessor of wealth. (And this
is not sour grapes.)”

Henry N. Barker, 10 Sixth St., Bristol, Tenn.,
hopes for better times, gives evidence of his loyalty.

GrorcE Kerns, Monterey, Va., has for seven
years been in charge of the mission work of the Bible
Institute of Pennsylvania at 1418 North 16th St.,
Philadelphia, who says of himself that he is an “im-
pecunious preacher, however neither emaciated nor
disconsolate, but intensely happy in my work.”

*Morris L. Masinrer, Payne Bldg., Roanoke.

*Rosert G. NEtson, Citizens Bank Bldg., Tam-
pa, Fla.

*STEPHEN F. Cuapwicxk, 660 Coleman, Bldg.,
Seattle, Wash.

*LAFAYETTE R. HANNA, First National Bank
Bldg., Birmingham, Ala., of Murphy, Hanna, Woodall
and Lindbergh, lawyers.

*S. H. Witiiams, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.,
of Harrison, Long and Williams, lawyers. Approves
and helps.

I

MUA LGA +2] 1 re ee

*J. Cartton Hupson, Law Bldg., Norfolk, Va.,
attorney and counsellor at law. Wishes he could make
it 2000!, likes the class letter and the feeling of old
times.

*HorAcE Mayuew, 847 Maiden Lane, Roanoke,
Va., paid his respects in person.

**ARTHUR W. McCain, Chase National Bank,
New York City.

**C. HH. Morrisserre, State Office Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

**CLARENCE W. Sacer, 26 Broadway, New York.

**J7unrus L. PowrEtt, 90 John St., New York.

Unknown Addresses
letters to the following were returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
CHARLES CoLvILLe, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.
GrorcrE Etitis Covincton, Magnolia, Ark.
CuHarLEs ALBERT NICHOLSON, JR., Richmond, Va.

In Memoriam

Lewis ANDERSON WILKINS
Dr. AmBrosE McCHESNEY BROWN
April 7, 1933

1913
161 men
Class-agent: *BENJAMIN F. Fiery, of Baker, Hostet-
ler, Sidlo and Patterson, Union Trust Bldg.,
Cleveland, Ohio

*Dr. JAMES Matcotm Apair, dentist, Lexing-
ton, Va.

Tuomas FI. WALKER, Wytheville, Va.

D. Eastey Wacconer, Dallas, Texas, is vice-
president and general manager of the United Fidelity
Life Insurance Co.

Tom E. Warts, Camden, Ark., is a merchant,
ready-to-wear and general merchandise. His loyalty
and interest are not dimmed.

*Ropert R. Wirt, 207 Camp St., San Antonio,
Texas, is president-manager of the Builders Supply
Co., has a wife and two daughters, and lively, affec-
tionate memories of Washington and Lee and his class-
mates.

*ApRIAN WILLIAMSON, Monticello, Ark., is of
the firm of Williamson and Williamson. He was a
wandering youth and has half a dozen Alma Maters,
Washington and Lee ranking in his interest and af-
fection.

Wituiam A. Wricut, Tappahannock, Va., prac-
tices law and helps support the Alumni Association
as sponsor.

Hersert T. Taytor, 3801 Fauquier Ave., Ginter
Park, Richmond, Va., has three sons to send to Wash-
ington and Lee.

[ 37 ]

a ein ACL A TN oo

I

M A tGAA> Zi 1 iia

 

*RicHARD A. Smitu, Lexington, Va., is Director

of Intercollegiate Athletics at Washington and Lee.
J. Y. Saunpers, Jr., Baton Rouge, La., practices
law.

E. F. Suerrey II, Apt. 407, 1657 31st St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C., has also a list of six colleges and
universities.

*S. C. Rosk, West Point, Miss., is easily aroused
hy the memories of twenty years ago.

*Dr. J. P. Ricuarpson, Taylor-Richardson Clinic,
Ellensburg, Wash., sends regrets to the invitation to
the reunion and feels far away. Has two girls, one
ten, one seven.

*FrED W. McWanes, Lynchburg, Va., is not a
practicing lawyer exclusively, has many irons in the
fire, nominee on the Republican ticket for Governor
of Virginia.

Lewis TwyMan, Security Bldg., Miami, Fla., is
of the firm of Twyman and McCarthy, lawyers.

Tuomas S. KirxKpatrick, Peoples National Bank
Bidg., Lynchburg, Va., is of the firm of Kirkpatrick
& Burks, attorneys and counsellors at law, real estate
loans a specialty.

*EpwarRD W. Leg, 1350 Broadway, New York
City, insurance. Member of the Board, active alumnus
in the New York Association.

*RevV. WittiAmM T. Hanzscue, Trenton, N. J.,
is pastor if the Prospect Street Presbyterian Church.

*PHitip P. Grsson, 419 First Huntington Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Huntington, West Va., is a member
of the law firm of Marcum, Lovins & Gibson, was
present during Finals as chairman of the reunion of
the class of 1913.

Henry B. Gooptok, Crozet, Va., recalls in detail
his recollections. In 1917 at Ft. Myers, received com-
mission as captain from Secretary of War, Newton
D. Baker.

CirrForD Burperr Foster, Pittsburgh, Penn.

*EpWARD §. DELAPLAINE, Frederick, Md., prac-
tices law and writes biographies, at present at work on
a life of Francis Scott Key, has published a work on
Thomas Johnson of Virginia and appears side by side
in the Dictionary of American Biography with Newton
D. Baker, the one author of a sketch on the colonial
Thomas Johnson, the other on Tom Johnson of Ohio.
National treasurer of the Roger Brooke Taney Na-
tional Memorial Foundation and largely responsible
for the Taney house and grounds and historical ac-
cessories being saved as a museum for posterity. His
book on Thomas Johnson sells for $3.

Epp W. DreArmon, 1601 Argonne Place, Chal-
fonte Apt., 355, Washington, D. C., is associate archi-
tect in the office of the Supervising Architect, Treas-
ury Department.

*BEVERLEY D. Causry, Barnett National Bank
Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla., lives in St. Augustine, 14
Joyner St., and does business in both cities.

Dr. Herman P. Davipson, 30 North Michigan
Ave., Chicago, Ill., graduate of Johns Hopkins, prac-
tices in Chicago.

O. B. BARKER, Jr., 1000 Commerce St., Lynch-
burg, Va., is with Barker-Jennings Hardware Corp.

*PauL C. Burorp, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

*Ropert B. Apams, 406 Mountain Trust Bldg.,
Roanoke, Va. |

*HarvEY B. Apperson, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke,
Va., is of the firm of lawyers, Funkhouser, Apperson

and Whittle.

*K. H. McCoy, Lexington, Va., is in the post-
office at Lexington.

**BeN F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg., Cleveland,
Ohio.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Wave HAmprTon GARRETT, Clarksburg, West Va.

Victory SipNEy Ray, Naval Hospital, Norfolk,
Virginia

C. B. SaunpErRs, Richmond, Va.

Informa-

In Memoriam

Jor Manson TurBYFILL
Feb. 18, 1933
LEONARD CrEcIL MEArs, JR.
Sept. 22, 1928

1912
201 men

Class-agent: *Witt1AM A. Hyman, 100 William St.,
New York City

Rev. D. L. Snyper, 3004 Liberty Height Ave.,
Baltimore, Md., pastor of Trinity Methodist Church,
South, one year at Washington and Lee, next years
at Randolph-Macon where he graduated, then M. A. at
Princeton, then Bachelor of Divinity at Princeton
Theological Seminary.

*JupcE A. G. Livety, Lebanon, Va., presides over
the twenty-seventh Judicial Circuit comprising Russell,
Buchanan and Dickerson counties, approves cordially
of the plan and praises the effort.

*Dan B. Owen, Doylesville, Va., is in the feed
and fertilizer business in the same part of Virginia
where he has always been an agriculturist, has three
daughters and a son, was here for Finals, and has
missed only two since 1912, is loyal, active in his alum-
ni contacts and devoted to the welfare of the University.

Joun W. Heartu, Port Gibson, Miss., has suffered
from two Mississippi river floods.

[ 38 J

 

T “Se Acre, (20 bAM IN

I

MUAH GAA Ze ion be

 

Sn

Rev. Ropert M. McGeuee, 1738 Thornton Court,
Alexandria, La., director the Synod of Louisiana, de-
partment of Religious Education, section of Field
Work and Extension of the Executive Committee of
Religious Education and Publication of the Presbyter-
ian Church in the United States.

Dr. Rosert C. Hoop, 428 West Pike St., Clarks-
burg, West Va.

Tom Grascow, Box 37, Charlote, N. C., president
Glasgow-Stewart & Co., wholesale distributors of re-
placement parts and automobile supplies, has five chil-
dren, strong connections with the University and
warmest feelings.

*Francis J. Heazev, Asheville, N. C., of Heazel,
Shuford and Hartshorn, lawyers, is quick and generous
to respond.

*RopERICK Brppow, Bankers Bond Bldg., Bir-
mingham, Ala., of Fort, Beddow and Ray, believes
that no institution compares with Washington and Lee
in cultural atmosphere.

*RopertT Bruce Montcomery, 1423 North Douty
St., Hanford, Cal., in the Hanford Union High School,
has a son, Bedford, in high school.

*I non O’QuinnN, First National Bank Bldg.,
Shreveport, La., of Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker and
O’Quinn, lawyers, regrets that he so seldom sees any
of his classmates.

*BeRNIE (S. B.) Harper, Fort Smith, Ark.
Yantis-Harper Co., dealers in automobile tires and ac-
cessories, “Firestone.” ‘The best of wishes.

*H. E. Porrer, Commonwealth Trust Bldg.,
Chestnut and Twelfth Sts., Philadelphia, Penn., lawyer,
“with the greatest pleasure.”

*Byron L. BALLARD, Capitol Bank Tower, Lans-
ing, Mich., of Shields, Silbee, Ballard and Jennings,
lawyers, counsel for banks, director in banks, absorbed
in their reorganization and affairs, represents the Dur-
ant interests in Michigan.

*JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR., Bush House, Aldwych,
W. C. 2, office of the Commercial Attache of the
American Embassy in London.
in his affection for Washington and Lee or in apprec-
iation of what the training and association in Lexing-
ton meant. This coming from the Mother Country,
the origin and sharer of the Virginia culture is a trib-
ute from the heart.

*D. W. McNett, Lexington, Va., lawyer.

*CLayton E. WILiiAMs, Lexington, Va., the fa-
mous Skinny Williams, teacher in the law school, fine
teacher, popular, energetic, busy coaching for the bar
exams, sees bright hopes for next year’s law school.

*E. C. JALoniK, 3524 Welborn St., Dallas, Texas.
*Dr. Epwarp Lyons, 320 East Grand Blvd., De-

Yields to no alumnus .

troit, Mich., with Parke-Davis Co,. pharmaceutical sup-
plies.

*Harry M. Burver, 1911 Broadway, New Or-
leans, La.

*LLoyp R. Craicuitt, Nanchang, Ki, China,
writes direct to the alumni office from the American
Church Mission, renews his subscription to the Alumni
Magazine. “We are still enjoying life in this close prox-
imity to the communist stronghold of China. Several
times during the past year we have thought we would
pretty surely be chased out but instead we have rounded
out one of the most encouraging years of work we have
so far had in this great old city. We have never had a
more cordial reception both from the government school
students and the people of the city in general. Just
recently at the request of Madam Chiang Ki Shek the
various churches of the city have united in a program
of Christian work and Christian teaching among the
wounded soldiers in the various government hospitals
of the city. As chairman of the committee responsible
for this work I have been able to see what all of the
various groups are doing, and it has been a most encour-
aging surprise to me to see how the barriers of misun-
derstanding have fallen down before a friendly ap-
proach, and how gladly many of the men have been to
hear of the Christ who suffered and of the Heavenly
Father who cares for them.”

*MaAson DrAvER, Lexington, Va., business man
of Lexington.

**WirtiAM A. Hyman, 100 William St., New
York City.

**WiILLIAM L,. WEBSTER, 1044 State St., Schenec-
tady, N. Y.

1911
176 men

Class-agent: *A. DANA Hopcpon, Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

*T_Ewis G. Cooprr, Greenville, N. C., attorney and
counsellor at law, sends his pledge of approval and
good faith.

*THomas F. Ocitviz, 11 South North Carolina
Ave., Atlantic City, N. J., lawyer, and says all of At-
lantic City’s sixteen banks are closed and scrip is now
used for money.

GrorcE W. CuHaney, Colonial National Bank
Bldg., Roanoke, Va., is close to the University, helpful
always, practical.

S. R. Gammon, College Station, Texas, Depart-
ment of History, Texas A. & M., has two boys being
made ready for Washington and Lee.

LEcKEY KINNEAR, “Panorama,” Lexington, Va.,
has been ill for some time, improving.

*FreD P. Guturik£, 4301 Argyle Terrace, N.W.,

[ 39 ]

IMATE AAL 4.0 SEM oN

I

 

MiA/ GA -Zi1eNa

 

Washington, D. C., responds always, district manager
Radio Corporation of America, 1112 Connecticut Ave.

*EDWARD FE. Brown, Hamilton National Bank
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn., general agent the Penn Mu-
tual Life Insurance Co., finds the movement, its organ-
ization, its methods appealing.

*Joun G. HERNDON, Jr., Haverford College, Hav-
erford, Penn., of exemplary cordiality.

*OmeER T. Kaytor, Hagerstown, Md., lawyer,
newly elected president of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association combining Hagerstown and Fred-
erick and their vicinities.

*]. Nevin Kitmer, Martinsburg, West Va., law-
yer, sends thanks!

*JAMES M. Barker, Jr., Bristol, Tenn., director
the Security Investment Co., bonds, mortgages and se-
curities, offices in Johnson City and Bristol, has warm
remembrances and keeps them in order, sees Frank
Taylor and Jimmy Thomas.

*F. S. Jounson, 6018 DuPont Bldg., Wilmington,
Del., touches the heart of the campaign and approves.
“The plea that Dr. Gaines is making for alumni as-
sistance is certainly justifiable and I hope will meet with
hearty response. Demands for relief and support of
local branches of national organizations of a charac-
ter-building nature are making serious inroads on the
reduced incomes of all of us, and I believe you are
striking the right chord when you ask for a nominal
amount from individuals.”

L. L. Humpureys, Duncan, Okla., president the
Security National Bank.

*HENRY W. Dew, 239 West Adams St., Jack-
sonville, Fla., co-receiver of the Florida Peninsular Ho-
tels Corporation, optimistic about general business con-
ditions, living in Florida the past three or four years
and is pleased with the land of annual pilgrimages, re-
ceiver for seven hotels in the Florida Collier Coast
Hotel chain with four other associated houses, gives an
inclusive invitation. “All of our houses are of modern
construction and are of the best class of commercial ho-
tels in the United States, so if any alumni are interested
in coming to Florida either for a visit or for the pur-
pose of taking a permanent part in the development of
the state and its rapid return to prosperity, which is
bound to come, we will be very grateful to have the
privilege of taking care of them in some of the Florida
Collier Coast Hotels and the associated hotels.”

Hotel Floridan, Tampa; Hotel Tampa ‘Terrace,
Lakeland; Hotel Dixie Court, West Palm Beach; Ho-
tel Royal Worth, West Palm Beach; Hotel Manatee
River, Bradenton; Hotel Sarasota Terrace, Sarasota.

*Harvey C. Evy, 35 Schermerhorn St., Brooklyn,
N. Y., writes briefly, except on his check, which is
larger than his letter, “Thanks, Dana, glad to oblige.”

Rocrer M. Wrinporng, Lenoir, N. C., with the Car-
olina Stores, Inc., big grocery chain in the east, the
“Blue Front Stores,” is reliable in his loyalty.

**F, P. Gururie, 4301 Argyle Terrace, Washing-
ton, D. C.

Unknown Addresses
l.etters to the following were returned.

Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va. 7

GEORGE Boyp, Potomac Manor, West Va.

Joun Raymonp BeEpForp, El Paso, Texas
PorFririo Aucusto Bonet, Jr., Bayamo, Cuba
ALFRED SHOPLEIGH RErLiy, Richmond, Va.
LLEWELLYN CALDWELL TucKER, JR., Washing-
ton, D. C. F
In Memoriam

WALTER L. BARRNS
JoHN BLEDSOE HoyLe
Jan. 17, 1932
Henry Situ REID
April 12, 1933

(Mr. Reid’s secretary gives touching proof of his”
interest in Washington and Lee. “It is with the deep-
est grief that I have to tell you of Mr. Reid’s passing
on April 12th. While he had been an almost constant
sufferer for several months, it was thought that he
would recover and be able to take up his normal inter-
ests before the passing of the summer—until he devel--
oped pneumonia about a week before his death. Mr.
Reid was always greatly interested in his class, and one
of his last acts at his office was the dictation of a letter
to the 1933 Annual.” ) 3

1910
172 men

Class-agent: *WavttER A. McDonatp, the McDonald —
Printing Co., Arbor Place, Cincinnati, Ohio

*B. L. Woop, R.F.D. 2, Buchanan, Va., full of
cordial feelings and encouragement.
E. T. Burr, Raleigh, N. C., is actuary with the —
Durham Life Insurance Co. )
*F. C. BepincER, Boydton, Va., Commonwealth’s —
Attorney for Mecklenburg County. 4
*L,. B. Dutrow, Front Royal, Va., is town man-
ager of the “Northern Gateway to the Shenandoah
National Park.”
Joun R. Coates, Bank of Commerce Bldg., Mem-_
phis, Tenn., practices law, manages farms.
O. A. CHIDESTER, 4586 Ohio St., San Diego, Cal.
Paut A. ROCKWELL, 72 rue d’Assas, Paris,
Francce, president Trench and Air, Association of
American Volunteer Combatants in the French Army, —
1914-1918, lives permanently in Paris, has a wife and
three children.

[ 40 ]

ee Bee ee, a ae

————

BeacH M. CHENoweEtH, 2606 Aberdeen Road,
Birmingham, Ala.

W. P. Jackson, 1205% Franklin St., Tampa,
Fla., agent, Piedmont Fire Insurance Co., settled in
Tampa in 1911, banking, collapse of the whole chain
in which he was interested.

*R, B. Luioyp, 5 East Clarke Ave., York, Pa.,
president, R. B. Lloyd Tobacco Co.

FF. C. Wittiams, Millboro, Va., wrote poetry to
help disguise his feelings, too strong for prose! Sur-
veyor of Bath County, observer and analyst of con-
ditions there.

Mynigé H. Myerson, Professional Bldg., Jack-
sonville, Fla., attorney at law.

M. Cary Jounston, Electric Bldg., Richmond,
Va., of the firm of Corneal, Johnston and Wright,
architects and consulting engineers.

B. M. HiccinsortHam, Rupert, West Va., with
the Gauley Coal Land Co., has six sons, the record
for 1910, so far reported. One son ready for Wash-
ington and Lee this fall, then one each year for five
more years.

RussELL L. Frinx, Graham Bldg., Jacksonville,
Fla., has a son of fourteen whom he is bringing to
Lexington this summer to instill Washington and Lee
into him.

CHARLES J. ELitison, Waynesboro, Va., is with
the Department of Highways, has taught school, sold
insurance, fought a war, served as American Vice-Con-
sul, built roads, sold investments.

G. D. PooLr, National Bank of Commerce Bldg.,
Williamson, West Va., is G. D. Poole & Co., mortgage
loans, real estate, insurance.

*JosepH R. Biacksurn, 424 Elm St., Morgan-
town, West Va., represents the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society of the United States.

*Rospert S. Hurcneson, Lexington, Va., of Ru-
ble and Hutcheson, Inc., millwork, lumber and _ build-
ers’ supplies. Always dependable in all alumni matters.

*D. WAMPLER EARMAN, Harrisonburg, Va., Com-
monwealth’s Attorney.

JASPER J. Barratt, 1233 Bank of America Bldg.,
San Diego, Cal., recently removed there from Oregon.

J. C. CuatmeErs, Bryant Bldg., Charlotte, N. C.,
with Thomas F. Kerr & Co., real estate and rentals.

*Gorvon R. Forrson, 912 Hassen St., Susanville,
Cal., has practiced medicine there since 1924. Degree
from Stanford School of Medicine, hasn’t seen a mem-
ber of the class of 1910 in fifteen years.

*HAMILTON A. Derr, Marietta, Ohio, is with
the Marietta Paint and Color Co., specialists in wood
and metal finishes.

Wyatt C. Heprick, First National Bank Bldg.,
Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

I

Fe i ES ER ee 2

*Prittip A. HerscHerR, Kanawha Banking and
Trust Co., Charleston, West Va., cashier.

THORNTON W. ALLeNn, 113 West 57th St., New
York City, formerly with Musical Courier, now his
own company under his own name, book and music
publisher.

Harry J. LeEMuLEy, Hope, Ark., attorney, Lem-
ley & Lemley.

*]. W. Raver, Lewisburg, West Va., has a warmth
in his memories, unequalled.

*HucH R. HAwrTHorneE, Number One, Broad-
way, New York City.

*PHittiep W. Murray, First National Bank Bldg.,
Newport News, Va., of Lett, Murray and Ford,
lawyers.

Joun Izarp, Asheville, N. C.

Harry Tucker, State College Station, N. C., is
Professor of Highway Engineering, North Carolina
State College of Agriculture and Engineering.

*LAURENCE C. Wirren, Union Trust Bldg., Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, general agent The Massachusetts Mu-
tual Life Insurance Co., class-agent for 1910, next year.

*Dr. Rospert W. Dickry, Lexington, Va., Pro-
fessor of Physics and Electrical Engineering.

*G. M. ALEXANDER, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.,
with Ivey and Kirkpatrick, insurance, very friendly.

**GEORGE L. CoyLré, Coyle & Richardson, Char-
leston, West Va.

**] ERoy Hopcrs, Grace-American Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

** WVaLTER A. McDonatp, Arbor Place, Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

**JoHN H. Tucker, Commercial National Bank
Bldg., Shreveport, La.

**T LAURENCE C. Witren, Union Trust Company
Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio.

**MarTIN LB. WITHERS,
‘Tampa, Fla.

McKay & Withers,

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

Epwin Leroy ALDERSON, Houston, Texas
ALEXANDER McCarty Bryan’, Cleveland, Texas
CHARLES Lewis GipponeEy, Wytheville, Va.

In Memoriam

FRANK BURWELL ROBERTS
1927

1909
140 men

Class-agent: *Dr. Joan Witiiam CrLaupy, Rockview
arm Prison, R.F.D. 3, Bellefonte, Penn.

[ 41 ]

a. - Re ES, Be » |

I

MA Gem Z i 8 oe

 

*JamMES P. ALEXANDER, Veranda Fruit Farm,
Fairfield, Va., was here for Alumni Day.

*Amos L. Heroip, Tulsa, Okla., professor of
English, University of Oklahoma.

C. T. Dawkins, 2613 Sunset Drive, Tampa, Fla.,
general contractor, engineering design, highway bridges,
building construction, has family of five, reports fifty
alumni in his vicinity whom he sees casually and fre-
quently; reminisces, finds it buoyant, grasps again at
the idealism and optimism of youth.

*Rev. W. Carty Barker, Jr., 107 Huron Ave.,
Lynchburg, Va., is an evangelist, conducts meetings.

*REUBEN RAGLAND, 606 Consolidated Bldg., Jack-
sonville, Fla., attorney, Kay, Adams, Ragland and Kurz.

L. W. Baker, The American Savings Bldg., Day-
ton, Ohio, with the American Inspection Bureau.

*RaLpH H. Baber, Harrisonburg, Va., attorney.

*Dr. J. O. Hopcxin, Jr., Warrenton, Va., dentist.
Reports on “Old Jim Price,’ and has warm remem-
brances of his friends.

*G. W. CLEEK, Warm Springs, Va., has a son en-
tering the University in the fall.

*S. Gwynn Cok, Lakeland, Fla., teaches in the
Southern College there.

Justice Danret K. Raper, Supreme Court of
New Mexico, Santa Fe, N. M. Approves the campaign
with full sympathy.

J. I. Tripterr, Jr., 1804 Avondale Circle, Jack-
sonville, Fla., “can be counted on.”

Rev. S. B. M. Guisetrn, 510 12th St., S.W.,
Roanoke, Va., pastor West End Presbyterian Church.

J. J. Forrer, Richmond, Va., is in the Department
of Highways, has three children.

Morton Lazarus, 941 Brooks Lane, Baltimore,
Md., has three grown daughters.

*BEIRNE STEDMAN, Box 57, Charlotesville, Va.,
has remembrances of twenty-seven years ago that em-
brace Herzog, Walzer, Tutwiler, Ratcliffe, Mrs. Leech,
Miss Lilly Catlett, Bessie. Co-author of Encylopedic
Digests, published by the Michie Co., of Charlottesville.

*Capt. Ropert R. Brown, Roswell, New Mexico,
is directing athletics in New Mexico Military College.

*L,. J. Boxtey, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke, Va., of
W. W. Boxley & Co., railroad contractors, expressed
his interest and gave encouragement in terms surpassed
only by one other.

ERNEsT JonEs, Altavista, Va., lawyer.

*JAMES H. Price, Richmond, Va., Lieutenant
Governor.

*Jor T. LyKks, 17 Battery Place, New York City,
Lykes Brothers Co., Inc., runs four steamship lines,
to the West Indies from the Gulf, to the Mediterran-
ean, to the Orient, to Europe, interstate lines, never
outdone in his loyalty, or interest.

*JupcE E. C. Carrrey, Hackensack, N. J., Judge
of New Jersey Circuit Court, former president Wash- —
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., supporter of all its in-—
terests and affairs, present always at Finals and Alum- —
ni Day. i
*C. T. CHENERY, 27 William St., New York City, —
president Federal Water Service Corporation, regular
alumni supporter.

*W. T. DELAPLAINE, Frederick Md., Great South- —
ern Printing and Manufacturing Co., co-editor, co-—
manager of the Frederick News and the Frederick Post. —

*CHARLES S$. GLAscow, Lexington, Va., attorney —
and counsellor at law, member of the Alumni Athletic
Council, close to the University and to all alumni —
affairs. ‘

*JoHN L,. CAMPBELL, Lexington, Va., trust offi- —
cer Rockbridge National Bank. Active on alumni —
special committees. |

*Dr. Devact L. Gwatumey, 465 Church St.,
Wytheville, Va., minister.

*S. N. Hosnour, Box 72, Kable Station, Staun-—
ton, Va., approves the plan, has broad ideas of service. —

*Dr. FrRanK R. Rurr, The Burnett Sanitorium, —
Fresno, Cal., has lived in many parts of the United —
States and travelled over most of the world, settled in —
California and praises the central part. ;

GuytE P. McCorp, Tallahasse, Fla., lawyer.

L. C. Catpwett, Times-Dispatch Bldg., Rich- —
mond, Va., lawyer.
STAFFORD CALDWELL, Jacksonville, Fla.

**Ewinc S. Humpuriks, Healy Bldg., Atlanta, —
Ga., contracting engineer, representing the Virginia —
Bridge and Iron Co., steel structures, bridges, build-—
ings, regrets not getting back for Finals.

**] . J. BoxLey, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

**TupcE E. C. Carrrey, Circuit Court of New —
Jersey, Hackensack, N. J.

**JOHN L. CAMPBELL, Lexington, Va.

**C, T. CHENERY, 27 William St., New York. 3

**Dr. Joun W. Criaupy, Rockview Farm Prison, —
Bellefonte, Penn. 7

**J]AMES Hupert Prick, Lieut.-Governor of Vir-
ginia, Richmond, Va.

**Dr. Wn. R. Lairp, Montgomery, West Va.

**Jor LykeEs, 17 Battery Place, New York City.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

ARTHUR VINCENT ADAMSON, New York City
Joun E. Hastinecs, Jr., Richmond, Va.,
Ernest C. Muss, Dallas, Texas

REDDEN W. RANDELL, Live Oak, Fla.

[ 42 |

 

 

Boe: ee aN

1908
119 men

Class-agent: *DozrER A. DEVANE, 744 Jackson Place,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

*HUNTER J. PHLEGER, Christiansburg, Va., sends
his regrets to the reunion and his warmest remem-
brances to all, but couldn’t resist the call and was at
the reunion.

*M. B. O’SuLtivan, 1366 Third St., Louisville,
Ky., spent Finals in Lexington, was one of the reunion,
enjoyed everything thoroughly.

*T’, RussELL CATHER, Winchester, Va., kind in
all his regards.

DonaLp P. Boyesr, 2804 DuPont Circle, Rich-
mond, Va., with the Spencer Turbine Co., turbine
blowers and exhaustors, organ power apparatus, va-
cuum cleaning apparatus. Has a son graduating at the
top of a class of 500 in the Richmond High School and
unfortunately no plans for his coming to Washington
and Lee.

*ABRAM P. STAPLES, Boxley Bldg., Roanoke, Va.,
lawyer. Returned for Finals and class reunion, same
“Old Abe.”

W. H. Hooper, Collis Ave., and 28th St., Hunt-
ington, West Va., is pastor of the Highlawn Presby-
terian Church.

ABE D. SOMERVILLE, Cleveland, Miss., is a law-
yer, junior member of the firm of Somerville & Somer-
ville. ‘Took his law degree at Mississippi in 1911, and
has practiced in Bolivar County, is busy, believes in
prosperity postponed, is optimistic and full of warm
and kindly feelings.

W. H. Jackson, Citizens Bank Bldg., Tampa,
Fla., senior member of Jackson, Dupree and Cone,
lawyers.

*A. W. Lysranp, Municipal Bldg., Washington,
D. C., with remembrances.

*Wn. F. Riser, Clothe Coah, Mexico, makes a
handsome contribution, an actual sacrifice and did not
come to the reunion with genuine regret.

*Horace W. Puicuips, Hardeeville, S. C., lumber
business, has a 13-year old prospect for Washington
and Lee, and is happy in all his memories of a quarter
century ago. |

JosEpH Hrnpty Jounson, Kingsport, ‘Tenn., has
moved there from Manassas, Va. :

C. W. Srrerr, Jr., 706 Lincoln Life Bldg., Bir-
mingham, Ala., is director of the Southern Football
Officials Association, district headquarters for Alabama.

JAMEs M. O’Brien, 2404 West Seventh St., Los
Angeles, Cal., does not let distance affect his feelings
and good wishes.

*JuLian Stuart Gravety, 1503 Franklin St.,

I

ee. ees ee ee A eee ee

Wilmington, Del., returned for Finals, took part in
reunion.

J. N. Moore, Lewisburg, West Va., vice-president
of the Greenbrier Military School.

*PHILLip P. Pace, 12 East Grand Ave., Chicago,
Ill., with the Chicago Journal of Commerce, keeps in
touch by frequent visits to Lexington.

James L. Mitts, 35 Aylwin Road, Cradock, Va.,
expresses full appreciation.

*GEORGE EK. Cary, Gloucester, Va., keeps in touch
with all University affairs.

*R. G. Ayers, 842 South Main St., Franklin, O.

*ROBERT W. ARNOLD, Waverly, Va., lawyer. Bus-
iness kept him from the reunion.

*RMARLE K. Paxton, Lexington, Va., teaches math-
ematics at Washington and Lee, managed locally the
reunion for 1908.

*C. W. Tuarpr, 809 Market St., Chattanooga,
Tenn., is a partner in Hardie & Caudle, men’s clothing.

*K. L. BEALE, Franklin, Va., attorney, has a son
at Washington and Lee. Was at class reunion.

*IrvIN A. Downey, Princeton, West Va., has
practiced law in Princeton since 1908. Since 1918, has
been president of the Mercer Securities Co., loans, real
estate and insurance. Was back with the same (college
days) wife.

C. A. Wooprum, Washington, D. C., is a member
of Congress, has a son who graduated this June at
Washington and Lee, law degree.

*JoHN N. Bikrer, Cambridge, Mass., is factory
manager of the Cambridge Works of the Boston Wov-
en Hose and Rubber Co., went to Massachusetts Tech
and got a degree in Chemical Engineering in 1910, re-
mained as instructor in chemistry and has been in
Cambridge since 1911. His oldest son was a freshman
this year at Washington and Lee.

J. P. WiLL, Orange, Va., is principal of the high
school there and in a position of influence, to express
his belief in Washington and Lee and his devotion.

Joun W. Newman, Southern Bldg., Little Rock,
Ark., attorney at law.

*GEORGE McP. MINEtTREE, 652 Munsey Bldg.,
Washington, D. C., unfortunately for his many friends
who expected him, was not here for the reunion.

*RopERT S. KeEBLER, 402 Union and Planters
Bank Bldg., Memphis, Tenn., reports on several class-
mates, Ragon, Flannagan, Woodrum and others as
contemporaries and would like to see again Boyer,
Alley, Dan Owen, Howard Larrick. After graduation
spent four years at Harvard, but his “affection and
appreciation are first for Washington and Lee.”

*Louis K. Koontz, 1656 Talmadge St., Holly-
wood, Cal., approves the campaign, its keynote of re-
vival, its ideal to be self-supporting, encourages all con-

[ 43 |

Er: & a ee Bs Ne oe

tributors to set aside specially an amount for annual
support. Has sabbatical year from the University of
California beginning in the fall, for completion of two
historical works, a biography of George Washington
and a history of the American Colonial Frontier. Sends
lively regards to all.

*Ray Rogpinson, Winchester, Va., deals in apples,
in the heart of the apple country.

**JupcE Louis S. Epes, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals, Richmond, Va.

**JuLIAN S. GraveLy, The Bond Manufacturing
Corporation, Wilmington, Del.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

Rosert Lester Huron, Kansas City, Mo.
James Brian BELL, Jr., Los Angeles, Cal.
FREDERICK MorELAND, Baton Rouge, La.
James NoxMAN Peass, JR., Charlotte, N. G.

In Memoriam

Joun WeEsLEY ROMINE
James F. ‘THomMpsoN

1907

90 men

Class-agent: *W. 1,. Lorp, Woodberry Forest School,
Woodberry Forest, Va., married, two children,
keeps young with the boys he teaches, likes to get
letters.

Powrtt Grass, Lynchburg, Va., publisher of the
Lynchburg News and the Daily Advance, is always in-
formed in detail about University affairs and is a
healthy critic.

M. J. Purnam, Clifton Forge, Va., lawyer.

I. P. Gassman, Freeport, Ill., president of the
Arcade Manufacturing Co., makers of foundry mold-
ing machinery and equipment, refrigerator hardware,
coffee mills, toys, is troubled with bank moratoria, con-
servators, his oldest son is at Washington and Lee.

V. G. Ipen, 200 Madison Ave., New York City,
is Director of Public Relations of the American Insti-
tute of Steel Construction, Inc., spent twenty years in
newspaper work, emerging into this higher relationship.

Dr. Francis Jones, 478 Peachtree St., N.E., At-
lanta, Ga., ill for a year and a half, now recovered and
practicing again. Among his remembrances are par-
ticularly Desha, Roscoe Stephenson, Dozier DeVane,
Charlie Campbell and Abe Staples.

E. Crype Hocr, 801 Neave Bldg., Cincinnati,
Ohio, is with the Lathrop Construction Co.

A. E. Grirrira, Andover, Va., vice-president and
manager of the Central Supply Co., wholesalers and

I

uM AG me. 2 UL ee

jobbers of hardware, mine and mill supplies and equip-
ment, has a son, 19, who is at Wharton School, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, hears too infrequently from his
friends of Washington and Lee days.

*Dr. C. A. EncLE, Williamson, West Va., is pas-
tor of the First Presbyterian Church, sums up every-
thing by saying, “I have nothing in the world to com-
plain about. Have had a very successful ministry in
the Presbyterian Church and never felt better in my
life.”

A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Fla., pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church for fifteen years, has not
been back since graduation and plans to come.

Dr. W. B. Newett, 502 North Independence,
Enid, Okla., runs a hospital called “Independence Hos-
pital,” has five children, great responsibilities.

T’. O. Bactey, Fayetteville, Tenn. Bagley & Bag-
ley, agents, insurance, plans some day to drive up
through Virginia and see all of his friends. .

*Dr. DonaLp W. M. MacCvruer, 2634 N.E. Thir- |
ty-second Place, Portland, Oregon, pastor of the Rose —
City Park Community Church. “It’s a long way from —
Oregon to Virginia, but my heart is still there.” Dr. ~
and Mrs. MacCluer were both missionaries to Siam, —
invalided home with jungle fever, thirteen years in
Portland.

*C, C. CrocxETt, Dublin, Ga., attorney.

Cuarces T. RANbo-pH, Carmi, Ill., practicing law
since 1908, married Miss Lydia M. McElroy of Spring- —
field, Ky., has served as States Atorney for White —
County and now Master in Chancery.

*EmeErY LANDON, 3124 Gulfport Ave., Baltimore,
Maryland.

*H. Crim Peck, Lexington, Va., former Mayor,
now City Treasurer.

**Mayor Powett Grass, The News, Lynch- ©
burg, Va. | |
Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
FranK McCurcuan, Salisbury, New Mexico
SAMUEL S. EccLEs’ron, Wilmington, N. C.
Guy GitmorE GELKER, Martinsburg, West Va.
J. O. Kerauver, Mt. George, Md.
Exiiiorr VAwTER, Richmond, Va.

In Memoriam
Dr. W. Cossy BELL
April 6, 1933

1906
101 men
Class-agent: *1, PrerLow Hotvanp, Suffolk, Va. —

*K. W. Trims_e, Murphy, N. C., temporarily

[ 44 |

 

T ‘sae Se ON

——

there as part of his work with the Geological Survey,
Department of the Interior. “It is a genuine pleasure
to encounter your spirit in this movement, the success
of which is already assured and I am equally proud of
sharing a goodly portion of what the banking fratern-
ity has failed to consume, with the Alumni Association.”
This quotation was prophetic and is characteristic of
the response, in general, of the class of 1906.

*Bastt MANty, American Security Bldg., Wash-
ington, D. C., stops between urgent, insistent business
demands of the new administration to respond cordially,
warmly. His career as economist in the Bureau of
|.abor, as Commissioner on Industrial Relations, now
capped by appointment to the Federal Power Commis-
sion.

*Joun FE. Scorr, 318 South Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky., assistant engineer, Louisville & Nash-
ville Railroad, warm remembrances.

*H. CLraupE Porst, Grundy, Va., lawyer, active
in widely varied affairs, the poor, the rich and coal
operators, a son at Hampden-Sydney, in addition to a
younger son and a daughter.

*Wmn. Heywoop Moretanp, Lexington, Va., dean
of the School of Law, a leader in a class of great dis-
tinction. }

*W. F. Semper, Atlas Life Bldg., Tulsa, Okla.,
Deep Rock Oil Corporation, Petroleum Products. Ad-
mitted to the bar in 1907, and practiced in Durant un-
til 1932, when he was made attorney for Deep Rock Oil.
Has visited Washington and Lee with his family.

Leo WEINBERG, Frederick, Md., regretful but
loyal.

E. B. Rokser, Montgomery, West Va., mining
engineer, mine surveys, tipple plans, land surveys, elec-
tric blue prints. Optimistic, grateful, zestful.

G. H. Caperton, Jr., Kanawha Valley Bldg.,
- Charleston, West Va., with the Penn Mutual Life In-
surance Co., has a wife and daughter, now in insurance
after leaving the coal business.

*R. B. SprnpDie, Jr., Law Bldg., Norfolk, Va.,
lawyer, appreciates simple friendliness and expresses
interest, has a daughter in Smith College.

*JoHN PiL_KincTon, 1538 Mau St., Jacksonville,
Fla., special agent New England Mutual Life Insur-
ance Co.

*C. N. CAMPBELL, Martinsburg, West Va., of the
law firm of Campbell and Harris, is not far away and
keeps in touch.

*Wacter H. Duntap, 4517 Hawthorne St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C., loves his Alma Mater but doesn’t
like its Magazine.

*W. W. Cave, Pulaski, Va., a partner in the Pu-

laski Insurance Agency, general insurance, surety
bonds

I

me AO S.- en oe Oa ee

*MiILTON HERMAN, Forest Hills, Danville, Va.,
married last fall, practiced law in Danville till 1917,
then the Army and France, 111th Field Artillery, re-
turned in 1919, gave up the law, went into business
with his father, the firm L. Herman Department Store.

*ALBERT STEVES, JR., San Antonio, Texas, has
had one son graduate at Washington and Lee and a
second son enter, leave and get married. Building bus-
iness, contractor.

*M. Ryerson TurRNBULL, 1206 Palmyra Ave.,
Richmond, Va., head of the department of English
Bible, Assembly’s Training School, recommends for a
better understanling and a firmer acceptance of respon-
sibility that all read Gamaliel Bradford’s life of Lee,
the American. Served in a pastorate for one year,
then went to the Union Theological Seminary and later
in the Training School. ‘Trains Bible teachers and has
trained thousands for Sunday School work. Published
four books on four books of the Bible, translated in
French, published in France. ‘Translated in Bulape,
used in the heart of Africa.

*Dr. THomas F. Opie, Olney, Md., rector of St.
Bartholomew’s: Parish, Diocese of Washington, since
leaving Washington and Lee eight years in the Fourth
Estate, and on June 8th celebrated twenty years in the
ministry. Elon College, N. C., “doctored his divinity,”
writes exclusively for the Churchman, oldest religious
journal in the English language, the Living Church,
The Chronicle, The Southern Churchman, Homiletic
Review, etc., quoted in the Literary Digest, The Out-
look, The London Daily Express. Ministers to three
churches in the lovely rural paradise of Montgomery
County, Maryland.

*Dr. T. BRANNON Hupsarp, Montgomery, Ala.,
practices medicine, has three children, oldest son fin-
ishes prep school—Kent in Connecticut—in another
year, headed for Washington and Lee, to add to the
family’s loyalty there.

*]. W. Eccieston, Citizens Bank Bldg., Norfolk,
Va., of Vandeventer, Eggleston and Black.

*WittiAM L. Hock, Fourth and G Sts., Louis-
ville, Ky., Mengel Body Co., automobile bodies, busi-
ness picking up. His oldest daughter ready for college.

*B. J. Mayer, LaGrange, Ga., of Loneyoz and
Mayer, lawyers, practiced law for eighteen years in
Georgia, wife and two children, enlightened content-
ment. |

*CLAUDE P. Licut, 219 Seventh St., Parkersburg,
West Va., attorney in general practice, formerly spec-
ialist in bankruptcy, United States Bureau of Investi-
gation, Attorney-General’s Department of Justice, re-
sponds to all Washington and Lee appeals unfailingly,
looks forward to a grand reunion in 1935.

*Dr. F. M. CrawrForp, Farmville, Va., went to

[ 45 ]

fn. Ss A =e DD MOR

I

mA GA Zi Na

 

China in 1914 and stayed until 1927, three years in the
practice of medicine in Burkeville and Farmville, then
back to China, returned last November, claims super-
iority over his class-agent in at least not being a bach-
elor. |

*GrorcE P. Wuir, Munsey Bldg., Baltimore, Md.,
of Lord & Whip, counsellors at law, after graduation
in law. spent six years in Florida, then to New York
for three years with an admiralty firm, practices ex-
clusively in admiralty, was married four years ago and
lives in Catonsville, outside of Baltimore.

*Dr. L. J. Desua, Lexington, Va., professor of
Chemistry at Washington and Lee, one married daugh-
ter, one at Randolph-Macon, one at school in Lex-
ington.

Frep N. Harrison, Richmond, Va., president the
Universal Leaf ‘Tobacco Co., exporters and importers,
divided in his interests and support, is also an alumnus
of the University of Virginia.

RAYMOND CoopEer, Southwestern, Memphis,
Tenn., after graduation at Washington and Lee took
M.A. at Harvard, LL. B. at Alabama, two years fur-
ther study at Oxford, returned home; went back to
England and entered the English Army, was with the
British in Egypt and Mesopotamia, now professor of
History at Southwestern.

J. C. Carpenter, Jr., Clifton Forge, Va., presi-
dent The First National Bank, has three children, a
son of seventeen ready for Washington and Lee, a
girl of thirteen, a boy of eight. In addition to banking,
is also a contractor, just completed a long tunnel for
the C. & O. at Prince, West Va., keeping trains running
during construction, three similar jobs on hand.

James R. Casxre, Lynchburg, Va., of Caskie,
Frost and Coleman, attorneys at law, also of the Board
of ‘Trustees of Washington and Lee, and an active
alumnus.

W. S. Turwiter, 1301 Lanier Blvd., N.E., At-
lanta, Ga., at Washington and Lee one year, then four
years at Georgia Tech. Vice-president of the Capital
Construction Co., two sons, one thirteen, one six.

Mark W. SuEare, Jr., Watertown, North Da-
kota, attorney.

Crar_LEs N. Hopson, Frankfort, Ky., attorney,
in politics, has a boy of 14 entering high school, plan-
ning to go to Washington and Lee where his father’s
strong loyalty has prepared the way for him.

H. G. Tempe, Pineland, Texas, vice-president
the Temple Lumber Co., manufacturing yellow pine,
hardwood lumber, and oak flooring.

*RIcHARD W. Hynson, 615 American Security
Bldg., Washington, D. C., announced June Ist his as-
sociation with Folger, Nolan & Co., Inc., investment
bankers, distributors of high-grade securities, estate

management and tax consulting being still his specialty.
*i. H. RarcvirFe, Jr., 902 Burk Burnett Bldg.,
Fort Worth, Texas.
*Joun R. Switzer, Harrisonburg, Va.
*S. R. Neat, 714 Dale Ave., S.E., Roanoke, Va., —
has been preaching for 25 years, in responsible appoint-

ments in the Baltimore Conference of the Methodist —
Church. At present in the Belmont Methodist Church —

in Roanoke, with the largest Sunday School in the Con-
ference, has taken 1600 members into the church
through the years. Has worked in West Virginia, is
a Who’s Who there. Pastor Old St. Paul’s Church,
Baltimore, conducted sixteen finance campaigns in
neighboring states, raising thousands of dollars for
new buildings and old debts. Evangelist. Bachelor of
Divinity of Vanderbilt.

H. C. Tirtman, Wallace S. Bldg., Tampa, Fila.,
of Sutton, Tillman and Reeves. Has lived in Tampa
seven years, removing there from North Carolina. —
Wife and four children. Reports on Gee Phillips as
last heard from in South Carolina running a lumber
business.

J. Harpen Howe tt, Waynesville, N. C., has had
a rather varied as well as hectic career, including the
practice of law, farming, soldiering, banking, manufac- —
turing, with some experience in politics. His first ex-
perience was at the University of North Carolina, —
studying North Carolina procedure in preparation for
the State Bar examination, which he passed in August
1906. Located in Waynesville in January, 1907 and in
1908 formed a partnership with J. S. Bohannan, this
continuing until 1916. In the interim had served the
Town as Clerk and Treasurer for four years and as
Attorney for two and as a side line had worked from
private to captain of the local company, and when trou-
ble arose in Mexico in 1916, was promoted to major
and saw service on the Mexican border. When that
was over he went into the World War and saw service
with the 118th Infantry, 30th Division, until wounded
in action in October, 1918, just after the breaking of
the Hindenburg line. The next six months was in the
hospital and upon discharge was appointed Supervisor
of Taxes for the State of North Carolina covering the
western district. Finishing that job in 1920, became
vice-president of a bank and was in that work until
1924, when he gave it up because of the confinement.
Then accepted the secretary and treasurership of a man-
ufacturing corporation and stayed at that for something
like three years until his health failed completely in the
early part of 1928. In the meantime had served four
consecutive terms as Mayor of the Town of Waynes-
ville, from 1921 to 1929. At that time gave up every-
thing for two years or more and in 1931 was elected
Mayor again. In the meantime the depression came

[ 46 ]

 

-

 

T H E Ao as BE

aaeaaEEEeEeE7™”"

along and wiped out the bank and manufacturing busi-
ness, so last year again took up the practice of law and
is following that at present in order to have something
to do. In 1916, was nominated to represent Haywood
County in the Legislature but was prevented from go-
ing by reason of going to the Mexican border. Up
until last year had consistently refused to make the race
again, but under the conditions existing let his name be
presented as a candidate and in the primary received
something like 400 votes more than his two competitors.
In the general election received something over 4000
more than his Republican opponent. Spent four and
a half months in Raleigh this past winter for which he
received only sixty days pay, but had a long hard ses-
sion, which he hopes will result in some benefit to the
state. Was married in 1908, and has one son who is
a student at the University of North Carolina Had
hoped to send him to Washington and Lee, but when
the time came all his friends were either going to Duke
or the University and he selected that place. Life has
been rather strenuous ; has crowded into it a good many
different lines with some success and some failures.
Has met a number of former Washington and Lee men,
and has a feeling for them that he does not have for
others. An atmosphere at Washington and Lee not
found in any other place he knows. —

*B. T. Smiru, 810 Peoples National Bank Bldg.,
Lynchburg, Va., writes a letter of such model content
and in such ideal apprehension of what this campaign
set out to discover, that it is printed without the dele-
tion of a word and with the gratitude of the editor:

“My dear Pret:

“In the morning’s mail I find another of these let-
ters from you asking me to give you some idea of what
life and living has meant to me since leaving college.

“If I attempted to tell you half of the story truth-
fully, I would probably be confined to the penitentiary
the rest of my life, which would not be very interesting
to me. However, there have been a few bright spots
in my career since I left college which I will tell you
about.

“For the first ten years I labored long and hard in
the national banks of our city, and was promoted to the
eminent position of teller. For a short while I worked
in a railroad camp with our dear friend Clivie Carpent-
er, and thereafter put in a few years in a logging camp
in West Virginia. Of course all of the rough work
hardened me for the battle of life to come.

“My next connection was with the Craddock-
Terry Co., of this city, and just prior to my entry in
the World War I was auditor of this company. Hay-
ing no responsibilities and full of zest and pep, I de-
cided that the World War was just exactly what I
wanted to get into. I was stationed in New Orleans

I

De ae a A ee ee

for several months and I might mention that it was a
grand old city. I took an examination for assistant
paymaster, fortunately passed, and was given the rank
of ensign in the U.S.N.R.F. I was then sent to the pay
school in Washington, and after serving sixty or ninety
days was transferred to New York and was assigned
to the U.S. Mt. Vernon, one of our transports running
from New York to Brest, France. I made approxi-
mately fourteen trips across on this ship and was tor-
pedoed in September, 1918. This shock stayed with
me until I was discharged from the Navy in 1919. I
then settled in Philadelphia and was with EF. F. Hough-
ton for one year. I then went to Washington and was
in the employ of the Bureau of Internal Revenue as
traveling auditor. Then to put an appropriate finishing
touch to my wild career, I was married and returned
to my native city, Lynchburg, Va., where I have been
engaged in Public Accounting and Auditing business
since 1921.

“In the last three or four years I have been dab-
bling in politics, and I am now a candidate for the
office of Commissioner of Revenue of this city in the
coming primary to be held on August Ist next.

“This is the extent of my life and living since
leaving the dear old Alma Mater, Washington and Lee,
my associations with which I recall with a great deal
of pleasure and a small amount of pain.

“T am very glad to hear that our class made such
a splendid record in the Alumni reorganization cam-
paign, and am also pleased that you have been made
permanent class-agent. I am indeed distressed to know
that you are still a lone old bachelor, as I know that
you would have brought a great deal of happiness to
some charming sweet girl. But that’s your fault and
not mine.

“If you can think of anything further concerning
my life since leaving college that I have not thought of,
please add it to what I have given you above.

“T am also enclosing a check, although you say that
the financial part of the campaign is over, please try to
sneak this in without anyone knowing it, as it is very
late.

“T hope the next time you come to Lynchburg you
will give me a ring, and allow me the pleasure of pro-
viding some, not too snappy, entertainment for you. I
realize that you are getting old and have probably lost
all interest in women, whiskey, gambling, and other
childish games that men play at.

“With kindest regards to you and your family
and children, I am

“Cordially and fraternally yours,
“Ben”

J. W. Murray, Gallatin, Tenn., has a large family

and berates the selfishness of the class-agent, loves

[ 47 ]

tk Ak A oN

Washington and Lee, longs for more of it and oftener.

Tuomas GREEN STONE, Union Mills, N. C. “Tub-
by” still doesn’t write, but his wife does, and she tells
us that they have gone back to the joys of simple living
and that “Tubby” is finding surcease from the worries
of depression in his farm and garden.

*H. M. Banpy, First National Bank Bldg., Nor-
ton, Va., attorney. Henry M. Bandy, Jr., graduated
in law at Washington and Lee in June, after four years
residence, one in the academic school, three in law.
For two years before that he was at V.P.I. His daugh-
ter has been at Hollins for three years and graduates
in one more. His brother, the City Attorney of Kings-
port, graduated from Washington and Lee in 1913. A
record of practical loyalty and support.

Lizut. Com. JosEpH Pucu Norrveet, Bureau of
Aeronautics, Navy Department, Washington, D. C.,
in New York temporarily, at the New York Yacht
Club, 37 West 44th St., on acount of his wife’s illness
at a New York hospital.

R. E. Wirt, Lexington, Va., civil engineer. Soon
after graduation went into the United States Forest
Service, which was not to his liking, then resident en-
gineer on railroad construction in Oklahoma, and resi-
dent engineer acting in the capacity of City Engineer
in Sand Spring, Okla. From there went to University
of Detroit as professor of Civil Engineering. Forced
to resign on account of the after effects of flu in Au-
gust, 1920, has since done some teaching at Washington
and Lee and is now Deputy Commissioner of the Rev-
enue Department for Rockbridge County, Va.

Dr. Rurus H. Hacoop, Young Hotel Bldg., Hon-
olulu, Hawaii, is practicing medicine there.

**]aMES C. CARPENTER, JR., First National Bank,
Clifton Forge, Va.
**JTaAmMES R. Casxik, Peoples Bank Bldg., Lynch-
burg, Va.
Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

ELMER BRENT CLARK, Oklahoma City, Okla.
JAMES CLARENCE HAmILton, Fayetteville, Tenn.
Epwin Hampton McGrtt, Jefferson City, Mo.

In Memoriam

FRANK Pierce May, JR.
February 6, 1930

1905
69 men

Class-agent : *ELt1 M. Mitten, 5114 Newhall St., Ger-
mantown, Philadelphia, Penn.

*J. W. Kern, Clinton, Hl., superintendent Illinois

I

MAS A ZA oN ae

Central System, Springfield Division, prompt, gener- —
ous, practical.

E. W. KEtty, 16 James St., Bristol, Va., manager —
The Central Insurance Agency of the Provident Life —
and Accident Insurance Co.

In Memoriam

MINTER DELLE KELLY
August, 1931
FRANK May MartTIN

1904

70 men

Class-agent: *WaAtLER C. Harpy, Kanawha Valley —
Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Va.

*Dr. Joun Henry Day, North Avenue and Saint —
Paul St., Baltimore, Md., minister of the Seventh Bap- —
tist Church, tokens of goodwill and affection. :

**WaLLER C. Harpy, Kanawha Valley Bank —
Bldg., Charleston, West Va. |

1903
64 men

Class-agent: *Dr. Sam’L McP. Grascow, 138 East —
45th St., Savannah, Ga., pastor Independent
Presbyterian Church

Stuart CHEVALIER, 48 Wall St., New York City, —
of Miller and Chevalier, lawyers of that city. In Los
Angeles the firm is Miller, Chevalier, Peeler and Wil-_
son, 819 Title Insurance Bldg.; in Washington, D. C., -
it is Southern Bldg. Specialists in Federal taxation,
clients all over the country, work culminating in Wash-
ington. Recreational, seasonal residence in Warm
Springs, Georgia.

W. Jerr LaucK, 227 Mills Bldg., Washington, —
D. C., consulting and practicing economist. Residence, —
‘The Island,” Fredericksburg, Va. i

*R, A. Rurr, Elkhorn, West Va., has one son —
who completed the engineering course at Washington —
and Lee this year, another entering in the fall. Is as-
sistant manager of two large coal mines in the Poca-
hontas field near Ejikhorn. |

*C, R. Pr-xrncron, Orlando, Fla., of American
Fruit Growers, Inc., Florida Division. “I hardly
know how to tell you how glad I am that you wrote |
me. I have wondered whether I have been different
from many others in that as time has passed I have
thought so frequently of the men I knew at college.
And yet I have neglected almost completely to keep
in contact with them. Such neglect is a great mis-
take, and I wonder if the majority of others have beer
as guilty as I. As for myself there is not a great deal
to say that would be of particular interest. Following
my academic course I taught school for two years,

[ 48 ]

 

-

[| oe

tte ele Ne

ee A Ae a oe a Te

 

———

then returned to Washington and Lee and obtained my
law degree in 1907. Thereafter I was in Pittsburgh,
Penn., until 1916, having become associated about two
years after my arrival there with the predecessors of
my present company. I came to Florida in the fall of
1916 and have resided in Orlando since the fall of
1919. I am secretary-treasurer of the Florida Divi-
sion of American Fruit Growers, Inc., the general of-
fice of our company being located at Pittsburgh.

“I honestly believe that no man ever attended
Washington and Lee who had or has retained in his
own mind a higher regard than I for the institution
itself or for the opportunity it afforded. My failure to
maintain with consistency those physical contacts which
would have better evidenced the truth of that statement
is an inconsistency which is surprising even to me. But
[ am truly glad that you and others like you have un-
dertaken to bring some of us to our better senses.”’

*Rev. J. M. B. Giii, Petersburg, Va., rector St.
Paul’s Church. “I really do not know anything to tell
you about myself ; being a preacher yourself you know
that when we clergymen forget to be humble and begin
talking about ourselves we really begin to be no good
at our jobs. I spent fifteen years in China, then came
back to this country, worked in New York for six
months, mostly travelling the country. In the spring
of 1924 I had a call to the church here in Petersburg
where I was born and raised, accepted it and have
managed to get by with my home-town folks for the
past nine years. I was in Lexington for a little while
last summer, and wandered around the campus and
through the buildings to get a new inspiration from old
memories. It is a grand old place and never fails to
give you something worth while. I was very anxious
to get back to Finals this year, but other engagements
prevented that.”

*D. V. GuTuri£, Baton Rouge, La., head of the
department of Physics, college of pure and applied sci-
ence, Louisiana State University and Agricultural and
Mechanical College, responds cordially.

A. C. BuRKHOLDER, San Marcos, Texas, head of
the department of Economics and Business Adminis-
tration, Southwest Texas State Teachers College. “I
cheerfully give the following account of myself since I
graduated in 1903; I taught for eleven years in the pre-
paratory schools of middle Tennessee, after which I
studied in Peabody College for a year taking my M.A.
degree in 1915. Since then I have been professor of
Economics and Sociology in Southwest Texas State
Teachers College, San Marcos, Texas. I am married
and have two children; Helen, age 15; and Clifford,
age 13. It has been my good fortune to see the old
Washington and Lee University campus frequently
Since graduation.”

DANIEL W. ALEXANDER, 4707 Piney Branch
Road, Washington, D. C., has a son at Washington
and Lee (and says he is a good Fiji, too).

*JAMES WARREN BAGLEy, Old Custom House, De-
troit, Mich., the district engineer of the U.S. Lake Sur-
vey office of the U.S. War Department. “Army life
takes one about and I have been shuttled from place to
place in the regular manner. Since 1928 I have been
in Detroit running this old institution which extends
back in history to the years of the 19th century. Hav-
ing about finished a tour of duty here I go next to
Washington for a spell in the office of the Chief of
Engineers. Army life is somewhat like the life in the
church service, in that it gives a move now and then,
but each time there is something different to try to do.
The hodge-podge of duties in the Corps of Engineers
runs from Infantry training with small arms through
the surveying, construction, teaching and practically
every sort of engineering activity. It is an interest-
ing life but does not allow time for forming life-long
friendships nor the opportunity to acquire a home and
the usual things one desires most. I am enclosing the
small amount which in view of the descending expense
of a household move of a family of five, a fifteen per
cent reduction in salary, a bank failure and a hospital
bill, looks pretty large to me. I trust you will consider
it as a token of my desire to aid not the extent of my
willingness to do so could | afford more.”

*HERBERT S. Ospurn, The Rectory, Gloucester,
Va. “It was indeed a pleasure to hear from you and
to recall our days together at Washington and Lee. I
only wish it were possible for me to show my interest
in some more substantial way as I feel that Dr. Gaines’
letter is an appeal to the loyalty of everyone of us who
has enjoyed the privilege of being a student of that
great old institution. Just to show that my interest
is not all talk I am inclosing a check and at the same
time notifying you of my desire to contribute this
amount semi-annually until further notice. You have
evidently discovered that I am a minister. This must
have surprised you somewhat, as I gave no indications
of thinking along that line while a student of Washing-
ton and Lee. My work as a minister began with near-
ly two years of lay service under the late Bishop J. B.
Funsten of Idaho. From there I took a special course
at the Virginia Seminary near Alexandria and have
served rectorates at the following places: St. Anne’s
Parish, Essex County, Va.; Christ Church, Emporia,
Va.; Emmanuel Church, Harrisonburg, Va.; Christ
Church, Elizabeth City, N. C.; South Farnham Par-
ish, Tappahannock, Va., where you are under the im-
pression [ am now. But I left there about two years
ago and have since been serving the above fine old
colonial parishes here.”

oe

7. So

Witt P. Lamar, 43 Muscogee Road, Atlanta, Ga.
“T had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Gaines at an alumni
meeting here recently, and several other boys, which I
enjoyed very much. I certainly got the impression that
Washington and Lee standards are being kept very
high, and I hope this will continue. Let them hold out
till times get somewhat better, managing as best they
can, and by that date help should finally arrive from the
alumni, if they cannot send on very much sooner. AI-
most none of those 44 colleges are Southern. I hope
we can later equal their average. - If you write to them,
remember me to Charles McPheeters, McCrum, Gill,
Tabb, McNeil, Alexander and a lot of other friends
of yours and mine, whom I remember chiefly in the
gym. (I have not kept up with them, so do not know
that everyone of them are alive, but wish to be particu-
larly remembered to them and to the other members of
the 1903 class.) I saw that D. V. Guthrie was a pro-
fessor at Louisiana State College the other day. I had
some letters recently from Charlie Harrison and Gee
Haw; and on a trip some months ago enjoyed talking
to Ran Preston in Charlotte. If I am not mistaken
you have been sticking to pastorates where the work
was hard and you could do the most good, and had to
be pried loose to be sent up higher, as I noted the
places you had refused. I am certainly glad to get in
touch with you again and to renew old Washington
and Lee ties.”

~ Dr. Cary R. Bian, Guerrant, Ky., superintend-
ent of the Highland Institution of the Executive Com-
mittee of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church
of the United States, whose departments include
church, orphanage, school, hospital and farm in the
mountains of Breathitt County, Ky. This work follows
pastorates in Hustonville, Pineville and Paducah, Ky.

*W. J. Turner, Rancagua, Chile, general mana-
ger the Braden Copper Co. “It is difficult and rather
depressing to realize that it is nearly thirty years since
I have seen or heard from you. That is, I believe we
have not met since we graduated together in 1903. I
have, of course, kept track of you in a general way
through the Alumni Magazine and the Rockbridge
County News, to the latter of which I have subscribed
more or less regularly ever since I left Lexington.

“A brief account of my own history since we
graduated is that a short time thereafter I entered Cor-
nell University and finished a course in civil engineer-
ing, worked a couple of years in the United States,
and came to Chile in 1909 as a sort of surveyor, engi-
neer and jack of all trades. I have been with the Bra-
den Copper Co. ever since, except that I was in the
A.E.F. for a year and a half as Captain of Aviation
(ground officer), and about a year with an affiliated
copper company in the north of Chile. I was made

Ak Oe a

a

MA GA Z a ae

general manager of this property at the end of 1929, |
and have held that position since. 7

“TI worked for the Rockbridge Lime and Stone
Co. for a year in 1908 and 1909, and since then have
been back only twice, in 1914 and 1928. q

“Although it has not been my good fortune to
keep in very close touch with Washington and Lee, nor
with my friends among the alumni, I have still a very”
warm spot in my heart for it and them.” 4

The Rev. J. M. B. Grit, writes another letter:
“IT do not know what to say in answer to your sugges-
tion as to the class-agency except that I shall do my
very best to carry out the wishes and suggestions of —
Alumni, Inc., as far as the members of 1903 are con-—
cerned. ,
“The longer the time since I was a student at
Washington and Lee, the more it is impressed upon me
that the University gave something to my life which —
progressively increases in value as time passes. For —
many years I was in China and, being so far removed
from all association with the place, I lost the sense of —
what my two years there really meant to me; but now —
that I have had the opportunity to drop into Lexington /
quietly during the summer and spend a few hours wan-
dering around the familiar places, it has awakened the ~
feeling that I owe an inestimable debt to the old school. —

“T must confess that while I was a student, I neith-—
er realized nor appreciated what was being offered me; ~
this fact now makes me glad and willing to do my —
best to serve her in any way that I can.

“It is my hope that sometime between now and ~
next February I may have an opportunity to drop in —
and talk the plan over with you. However, you may —
rely upon me to do my best when the time comes.”

1902
60 men

Class-agent: *Dr. J. Morrison Hutcueson, Profes- —
sional Bldg., Richmond, Va. .

Co-agent: *JoHN RANDOLPH TUCKER, Law 1902, Law ©
Bldg., Richmond, Va.

*W. E. MacCrenny, Suffolk, Va., recalls and —
sums up the year 1902 and says, “I know of no place —
where the ethical standards are higher, the training —
better or where honor of manhood was more highly de- —
veloped.” Is a Ph. D., secretary and treasurer of the
Suffolk Chapter of the Sons of the American Revolu-
tion.

H. B. Graysitt, Greenbrier College, Lewisburg, —
West Va., has a boy nearly ready for Washington and —
Lee.

E. J. Payne, Box 373, High Point, N. C., man-
ages the Southern department of the Philadelphia —

[ 50 ]

T H E hice a BON

veo

Belting Co., manufacturers of leather belting, has a
boy of thirteen preparing for Washington and Lee.

GorpDON ARMSTRONG, Salem, Va., writes from a
robust recollection of thirty years ago, of his class-
mates, the faculty, the town and has deep loyalty and
affection.

Dr. W. Core Davis, 124 South Illinois Ave.,
Atlantic City, N. J., neurologist, psychiatrist, consult-
ant to the Atlantic County Hospital for Mental Dis-
eases, conducts a Mental Hygiene Clinic at the At-
lantic City Hospital. Resigned from the Army in 1920,
became specialist. Six months in Bellevue Hospital,
a year in the Philadelphia General, Medical Director
of the Philadelphia Hospital for Mental Diseases,
three years at the Morristown State Hospital.

k. T. Franary, Norton, Va., president Norton
Hardware Co.

Husert S. Moors, 632 Auburn Ave., Roanoke,
Va., with the Virginia Bridge and Iron Co., being close,
keeps in touch.

M. A. Witson, First State Bank Bldg., Fort
Meade, Fla., Patterson and Wilson, attorneys, on the
lookout always for students for Washington and Lee.

*R. F. -CooprEr, Holly Springs, Miss., president
Mississippi Synodical College, a son at Washington and
Lee, a daughter at Centre College, irreconcilable in his
loyalty.

J. Murpocu Dennis, Baltimore, Md., president
Dennis & Company, Inc., grain.

R. R. Puerrs, 3424 Craig Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio,
oldest son graduated at Washington and Lee in 1931.

*D. E. Wirt, 210 Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.,
special agent, New Hampshire Fire Insurance Co.

*A. 1, Burcer, 312 Boston Ave., Lynchburg, Va.,
superintendent of public schools.

*Bisuop W. G. McDowE Lt, 2015 Sixth Ave., N.,
Birmingham, Ala., untiring in practical loyalty and in-
terest.

We ts C. Locan, Hartford, Ky., tire and battery
service.

D. T. Moors, Greenbrier Military School, Lewis-
burg, West Va., business manager of the three Moore
brothers who own and operate this school, two are
Washington and Lee men. They watch with pride the
records of the boys they send to Washington and Lee.

*E,. W. G. BoocueEr, 326 West Maple Ave., Mer-
chantville, N. J., received Ph. D. from University of
Pennsylvania in 1932. Career has included business
and education both. Author “Secondary Education in
Georgia,” reports on alumni activities in Philadelphia.

Harry N. Huss, 719 Denniston Ave., Virginia
Heights, Roanoke, Va., assistant general freight agent,
Norfolk and Western Railway.

I

es a Re Re ee oe

**7. R. Tucker, American Bank Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

**DrR. WILLIAM ALLAN,
lotte, N. C.

**Dr. J. Morrison Hutcueson, Professional
Bldg., Richmond, Va.

Medical Bldg., Char-

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

RopeErt Woopwarp BARNWELL, New York City
THOMAS JEFFERSON GROVE, Petersburg, Va.
Ropert Ernest Hurron, Baltimore, Md.

In Memoriam
WiLtspur LAucK NEWMAN

1901
46 men

Class-agent: *MatrHew Pack ANbrREwsS, 849 Park
Ave., Baltimore, Md.

*G. R. Niswanpber, Blackstone Apts., 33rd and
Charles Sts., Baltimore, Md., removed in 1932 from
Hartford. Business address, Continental Paper and Bag
Corp., 1056 Baltimore Trust Bldg., has not yet found
who the Baltimore Washington and Lee alumni are.

*A. FreD Wuire, Donora, Penn., says, “I make
iron and steel for a living—steel being a pauper busi-
ness now,” but his memories of thirty-five years ago
feel more like five years ago.

*CLARENCE C. Burns, Burns Bldg., Lebanon, Va.,
of Burns and Wilson, lawyers. Calls the class letter
‘a million dollar letter” and wishes he had it all to
give. “It may be of interest to you to know that I
carried Frank Gaines around on the horn of my saddle
when he was a baby. ‘This does not mean I am old,
not at all. I am complimenting Washington and Lee
on having such a young president.”

*JouN M. Corser, Bay City, Texas, lawyer,
with generous remembrances.

*Joun K. Graves, 230 Park Ave., New York
City, is assistant vice-president, finance and corporate
relations, New York Central lines. Groans for the
second time but with grace, cheerfulness, generosity.

*RicHARD C. Lorp, Registrar, Kenyon College,
Gambier, Ohio, remembers his own days, those of Dr.
Henry Louis Smith and these of Dr. Francis P. Gaines
whom he finds worthy. Reports a study of geograph-
ical distribution of students at American colleges made
by the department of education of Rutgers University
in 1931, in which only five American universities were
grouped as national; Washington and Lee, Dartmouth,
Yale, Georgetown and Notre Dame. Other colleges
were classed as intersectional or sectional. Discovers

[ 51 ]

ne A E> ae

I

Mo £-- eA 2. thee

 

that Matthew Page Andrews, the elder, was a graduate
of Kenyon College, class of 1855. Richard C. Lord,
Jr., oldest son, graduated at Kenyon in 1931, now do-
ing graduate work at Hopkins.

*W. Dewey Cooks, Savannah, Ga., is secretary
and treasurer of the Southern Fertilizer and Chemical
Company.

*k&, D. Orr, Harrisonburg, Va., the silver-tongued
orator of the Washington Literary Society, whose
training must stand him in good stead in the jury room.

**Joun K. Graves, Central Railroad, 230 Park
Ave., New York City.

1900
45 men

Class-agent: *LyNwoop R. Hormes, Public Ledger
Bldg., Furness, Withy & Co., Ltd., steamship
owners and agents, Philadelphia, Penn.

*Hitton S. Hampton, Citizens Bank Bldg.,
Tampa, Fla., of Hampton, Bull and Crom, lawyers,
a firm of distinction and service to the bar and the
community. City Attorney of Tampa from 1920 to
1925, member of charter board, which prepared a com-
mission form of charter for the City of Tampa, ves-
tryman in St. John’s Episcopal Church, Scottish Rite
Mason, member Supreme Tribunal of the Knights of
Pythias. In 1904 married Susanne Taylor.

F. D. Lakin, 1455 East 114th St., Cleveland,
Ohio (temporary), has spent most of his life as a con-
tractor, building railroads, concrete work, track eleva-
tions, recently with the Erie Railroad in Dayton, Ohio.
Reports that Downey was with Carter Construction
Co., of St. Louis when last heard from.

*A\.G. Davis, Lewisburg, West Va. “In regard
to my life since leaving Washington and Lee, will say
that I did not practice law, have tried to keep busy,
have never married, have been reasonably successful
in all my undertakings, do not feel depressed, never
have, a Democrat, a Presbyterian and lastly, just a
plain West Virginia mountaineer. Live six miles south
of Lewisburg and will be glad to see any of my old
classmates who care to visit me.”

E. McD. Moors, Chapin, S. C., waits for the re-
turn of more prosperous days on his farm near Chapin.

*S_ W. Frierson, Florence, Ala., lawyer.

P. V. LirrLeyoun, 11 Elm Ave., S.E., Roanoke,
Va., left Washington and Lee in 1900, went to Univer-
sity of Virginia, graduated in the school of chemistry
in 1903, since when connected with the chemical and
test department of the Norfolk and Western.

R. E. Moors, Bluefield, West Va.

Joun W. Lee, 30 Rocklyn Place, South Hills,
Pittsburgh, Penn., is with the Pittsburgh Screw and
Bolt Company.

*R, A. Watson, Peoples National Bank, Char-
lottesville, Va., is manager of the Trust Department.

**]. W. Garrow, Hermann Bldg., Houston Texas.

**J, Ran Tucker, 915-922 American Bank Bldg.,
Richmond, Va., of Tucker, Bronson and Mays, law-
yers, members of the Alumni Board of Trustees, co-
agent for the class of 1902 with which he graduated
in law.

Unknown Address

A letter to the following was returned.

tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Informa-

Horacrt R. Moors, Knoxville, Tenn.

1899

37 men

Class-agent: *Harry S‘t. GEORGE TUCKER CARMI-
CHAEL, Kyrock, Ky.

*VERNON T. Davis, Jackson, Miss., of W. J.
Davis & Co., has expressed the warmest of all his re-
gards for “The Grand Old Institution.”

*W. C. Warson, 45 Smith St., West Haven,
Conn. ‘My first position on leaving there was with
the Union Bridge Co., at Athens, Penn., as draftsman.
Then on formation of the American Bridge Co., was
transferred to Philadelphia. After being there some-
thing over a year the bridge engineer of the N.Y.N.H.°

& H.R.R. wrote them for a man and they recommended —

me. Was there two years and was given a position
with the Seaboard Air Line Ry., in Portsmouth, Va.,
where I worked as bridge engineer and general struc-
tural man for nearly two years. Then I went to New
York and worked on the new terminal there and about
the time that I was done the same bridge engineer of
the N.Y.N.H. & H.R.R. asked me to come back and
come back I did as general structural designer and have
been here ever since. Saw Dr. Campbell in New York
three or four years ago and the way he greeted me
was, “Well W. C., the homesick boy,” and we had
some talk together just like real old time friends. He
told me Dr. Howe had a great big paunch and was
proud of it. Well, I guess I have written more even
than you wanted to hear, so good luck to you in your
business and the cause of Washington and Lee.”

*Dr. G. B. Caprro, Professional Bldg., Charles-
ton, West Va., writes as many do, “I was more than —
glad to get a letter from you, not, of course, because —
of the fact that you were dunning me for some money
but because I received the information as to where you
were, and that it was the means of getting in touch
with you. It brings back memories of old Washington
and Lee days and the fine associations with the splen-
did people of Lexington, and the fine personnel of the
students during our work at the University.”

[ 52 |

 

ee Pete 3 AON

———

W. E. Davis, 420 West Sixth St., Lexington, Ky.,
responds with approval. .

STEWART L, CreEBBs, 5100 Wilshire Blvd., Los
Angeles, Cal., president of Blaner, Button & Co., Ltd.,
realtors.

*JAMES MULLEN, American National Bank Bldg.,
Richmond, Va., of Williams and Mullen, attorneys
and counsellors at law, absorbed, day and night, in
the reorganization of one of the big banks of Rich-
mond, of which he is director and general counsel.
Also an alumnus of Randolph-Macon College and mem-
ber of its Board of Trustees.

*Rev. A. Stuart Grirson, Manassas, Va., rector
Trinity Episcopal Church. “It seems a long jump from
the legal profession to the ministry, but I know a great
many men who have made it and I feel that law and
the little taste of business I had were really the best
preparation I could have had for my present profes-
sion. I believe I understand men far better than would
have been possible except for my experiences which
have been similar to those of the majority with whom
I have come in contact.”

ALEXANDER D. Hamicton, 213 North Sycamore
St., Petersburg, Va., lawyer. “I am the possessor of
five children and four grandchildren. ‘Twin daughters,
Sarah and May, the former having married James
Dunn Mason, and the latter having married Edward
T. Smith. Sarah has two sons, one eight, named for
his father, and the other six and one-half, named for
me. Mary has two daughters, one named Nellie Cocke,
for my wife, and the other Claudia Tillar, for her
father’s mother. My elder son, Alexander, married a
Miss Mary Bernard, of this city, on the 29th of last
October. He has been practicing law here for nearly
three years and is doing very well.”

*F, W. Kine, Alexandria, Va., executive vice-
president of the Virginia Public Service Co., gives the
campaign one of its biggest boosts; “I trust that the
Alumni Association may be helped by the drive that is
being made and become, as it should be, a real factor
in promoting the interests of our old Alma Mater.”

Hucu W. Kirxparrick, Mutual Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va., special agent, the Atlas Assurance Co., Ltd.

Dr. §. C. Linp, Minneapolis, Minn., Director of
Chemistry, University of Minnesota, very much sym-
pathy and hopes for success.

*J. L. Morrison, Hazard, Ky., has a son at Wash-
ington and Lee and another ready in 1934.

Wattace Murr, First National Bank Bldg., Lex-
ington, Ky., of Stoll, Muir, Townsend and Park, law-
yers.

*Rev. JAMES A. McCuurg, St. Petersburg, Fila.,
pastor First Presbyterian Church; “While far away,
I have kept in pretty close touch with the University

I

MM A Ae eh ee

in recent years through my sons. John graduated in
1928 and then followed with four years at Tulane in
Medicine. Jim, our second boy has been there this
present year. He made the Debating Team, and with
Jim Moore has taken part in five of their seven de-
bates. He may possibly enter the Law School next
year, and I still have two more boys to follow. I usu-
ally spend a part of my vacation at my old home in
Augusta County and get to Lexington for a day. I
have an interesting church here in this tourist city. I
have a congregation of from one thousand to twelve
hundred every Sunday morning for four months of
the year.”

*SAMUEL PricE, Lewisburg, West Va., of Price
and McWhorter, attorneys and counsellors at law. Has
warm memories, easily recalled and expressed.

*]. TrempLte Ropinson, 1307 Cherokee Road,
Louisville, Ky.

J. Powrtt Royatt, Tazewell, Va., lawyer, has
educated nine children. “I have been attending our
Alumni Association at Bluefield, West Va., and have
met Dr. Gaines, and am greatly impressed with his
wonderful personality, and I also keep in contact with
Mr. George W. St. Clair, of this place, who, as you
know, is the Rector of the University, and in this way
know something of the difficulties the University is
experiencing at this time.”

*CoLt. ARTHUR Morson Suipp, Montgomery, Ala.,
of the Adjutant General’s Department, U.S.A., in-
spects National Guard units.

Ewinc D. Stoan, Meridian, Miss., completing
the Meridian & Bigbee River Railway.

5S. L. Wooprince, Lexington, Ky., a very large
blue grass landowner.

**JoHN W. Garrow, Cotton Bldg., Houston, Tex-
as, of Garrow, MacClaen and Garrow. President,
Texas Cotton Association, 1924-25, president, Houston
Cotton Exchange, 1929-30, president, American Cot-
ton Shippers Association, 1933-34.

**Harry St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, Kyrock, Ky.

In Memoriam
WILLIAM RANDOLPH MaAucK
1926
Justice THomas FRANKLIN WEs’

Late of the Supreme Court of Florida
1931

1898
30 men

Class-agent: *RicHARD W. FLournoy, Department of
State, Washington, D. C. -

*Davip M. Barcray, the Cairo Hotel, Washing-
ton, D. C., was for some years secretary-treasurer of

[ 53 ]

Tach 5 AAG. 8. Ee

I

Mux GoAxA 2 it. eae

 

two exporting concerns in New Yory City, later vice-
president Guarantee Title and Bond Corporation of
Lynchburg, Va., and is now with the Tariff Commis-
sion. Is shocked at the 35th anniversary of the class
of 1898. He thinks “we have gotten old,” but is mis-
taken. |

*BorpEN Burr, Brown-Marx Bldg., Birmingham,
Ala., of Benners, Burr, McKamy & Forman, lawyers ;
“Henry Anderson of Richmond was in my office the
other day and we both expressly wished that it might
be possible some time to make a real effort for a re-
union of the classes of 1898, especially the law class.”

*RicHARD W. FLournoy, supplies the kind of

data it is wished every alumnus had given: Born Hamp- -

den-Sydney, Va., May 20, 1878; Washington and Lee
University three years; George Washington, LL. B.
1904, LL. M. 1905; member of bar of the District of
Columbia; bank clerk 1896-98; teacher, Lewisburg
Academy and Emerson Institute 1899-1903; professor
of international law, National University Law School,
since 1923; reporter on nationality, Research in Inter-
national Law, Harvard University, since 1928; ap-
pointed clerk in the Department of State, July 1, 1903;
Chief Bureau of Citizenship, Nov. 27, 1908, detailed to
assist embassies and legations in Europe regarding cit-
izenship matters, Sept. 17, 1915; appointed an assist-
ant solicitor, August 1, 1916; on detail as acting chief
Bureau of Citizenship; legal adviser to American del-
egation, Plebiscitary Commission, ‘Taona-Arica Arbi-
tration, 1926; chairman committee to study nationality
laws of U. S., with a view to having them amended,
1928; delegate Conference for the Codification of In-
ternational Law, The Hague, 1930; U. S. counsel Shu-
feldt Arbitration, 1930; assistant to the legal adviser,
July 1, 1931.

“In addition to the above, I may say that I took
an active part in shaping the measures which led up to
the adoption of the present system of examinifig alien
immigrants in consulates, finally developed and crys-
tallized in the Immigration Act of 1924 and the regu-
lations issued in pursuance thereof. It was in my of-
fice and under my personal direction, when I was Chief
of the Division of Passport Control, that the Joint
Order of the Department of State and Department of
Labor, initiating this system was drawn up. I origi-
nated and established the Visa Office, and it was upon
my recommendation that this Office was made a separ-
ate Division. I originated and drafted the proposal
for the amendment of sub-section 6 of Section 3 of the
Immigration Act of 1924, to clarify it and give it the
proper limitation, which proposal was finally embodied
in the Act of Congress of July 6, 1932 (Public—No.
266—72nd Congress). As a Delegate of the United
States to the Conference on Codification of Interna-

tional Law at The Hague in March-April, 1930, I was

principally instrumental in the adoption of the Proto- —

col relating to Military Obligations in Certain Cases

of Double Nationality, the first article of which was _

taken from Article 11 of the Code which I had prev-
iously prepared as Reporter on Nationality in the Re-
search in International Law, Harvard University. This
Protocol was ratified by the Senate of the United
States, and when it goes into effect, the first article
will be of great benefit to persons born in the United
States of alien parents. I was co-editor, with Profes-
sor Hudson, of the Harvard Law School, of a Collec-
tion of Nationality Laws and Treaties of Various
Countries, and have contributed articles on nationality
and other legal subjects to the American Journal of
International Law, the Yale Law Journal, the Virginia
Law Register, the Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure,
and the Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences.”

*CHARLES J. FAULKNER, JR., 316 South LaSalle
St., Chicago, IIl., responds always, in every way.

Sam Sticer, 342 West Peachtree St., Atlanta,
Ga., has had a varied career. After leaving Washing-
ton and Lee he practiced law for some time, went into
the banking and loan business, had considerable success,
travelled in Europe, Canada and Central America, had
financial reverses, and is now engaged in a new busi-
ness. He reports that he “did not marry until late in
life,” but it was not too late since he has “‘a wonderful
wife and two of the finest boys in the world.” Sam
says that he is “too young to sit down and not do any-
thing.” We agree. (Dave Barclay, please note.) Sam
reports having seen Harris and J. W. (Little) Garrow
in Houston, Texas, two years ago. Little Garrow is a
“happy grandfather”! ‘This news almost gives a bach-
elor an inferiority complex.

**R. W. Firournoy, Department of State, Wash-
ington, D. C.

**E Warinc Witson, Land Title Bldg., Phila-
delphia, Penn.

**CHARLES J. FAULKNER, Room 1830, No. 316
South LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill. .

**E pwarp A. O’NEAL, Room 1116, 58 E. Wash-
ington St., Chicago, Il.

1897
66 men

Class-agent: *F. Perris Hamivton, 408 Walnut St.,
New Orleans, La.

Cares F. Myers, Greensboro, N. C., pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church, mentions classmates he
has heard from recently, has the handsomest church in
the South, fine music and marvelous congregations.

*H. W. M. Drake, Port Gibson, Miss. Cashier
Mississippi Southern Bank, has four boys in college,

[ 54 ]

 

-

- heoe

—7—_™

one a medical student at Vanderbilt, a junior at David-
son, two freshmen at Washington and Lee, a daughter
through college. Last fall, he brought both the young
er boys to college himself, his second visit in 25 years.
“Every tree and blade of grass on the campus is dear
to me. The older I get the more I appreciate the won-
derful privilege it was to go to college and be assoc-
jated with the class of men who were in Lexington in
our day.”

*T. H. Wess, Austin, Texas, State Highway De-
partment. Has been back twice in late years and saw
several old friends.

*Ep WOHLWENDER, Columbus Ga., has had a son
in Washington and Lee and returned four years ago.

*LEe Roy C. Barrer, Trinity College, Hartford,
Conn., compares conditions with Trinity.

H. W. Garrow, Cotton Bldg., Houston, -Texas,
vice-president Garrow, MacClaen and Garrow, cotton
factors.

*BeNn C. Flournoy, 726 Jackson Place, Washing-
ton, D. C., of Flournoy and Flournoy, architects.

*Dr. L. F. Witson, Greensburg, Penn., has a son
at Washington and Lee.

*W. D. GresHam, Richmond, Va., is supervisor
of negro education in the State of Virginia.

*S. Rurrin Horne, Fayetteville, N. C., is one of
the three Hornes in H. R. Horne & Sons, pharmacists.
H. Ruffin, Jr., is at Riverside Military Academy at
Gainesville, Ga., and will come to Washington and Lee.

W. B. Morrison, 1523 West Elm St., Durant,
Okla., teaches History in one of the Oklahoma State
Teachers colleges.

J. L. Wrrz, Staunton, Va.

*Dr. Mossy G. PErrow, 1100 Federal St., Lynch-
burg, Va., City Health Officer.

*PaAuL §. Fevper, 1528 Nashville Ave., New Or-
leans, La.

*Emory H. Smiru, Colusa, Cal., dealer in grain,
beans, bags, dried fruits, has a boy ready for college,
wants him in spite of good colleges close by, to make
the long trip and come to Washington and Lee. Ca-
reer: for three years after leaving Washington and Lee
was special agent of the post office department in Puer-
to Rico and the Phillipines, ten years country banker
in West Virginia, came to California in 1911, invested
in land. Six years of ranch life, then wholesale grain
and fruit brokerage. In 1916 married Miss Anna Roe-
ber of Newark, N. J., one son James, sixteen. ‘The
training at Washington and Lee has enabled me to live
a life much fuller and happier than the average and,
after all, I believe that should be the ultimate aim of
education.”

Unknown Address
A letter to the following address was returned.

aa owe. ME. 8g

ae ec A Be: a a ee

Information requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
JAMES LAWRENCE LEONARD, Pleasant Hill, Mo.

In Memoriam

ARTHUR BARFIELD LAFAR
Davip I. SuTER
1930
JAMES WALKER BOWEN
March 27, 1929
FREDERICK ADAIR BRYAN
November, 1931

1896
67 men

Class-agent: *Major Stockton Hers ‘Tyier, Sea-
board Bank Bldg., Norfolk, Va.

Cot. C. N. Feamster, 304 Jackson Ave., Lexing-
ton, Va., has one son in V. M. I., another entering in
September, retired from U.S.A.

WittiAm H. Mason, vice-president Masonite Cor-
poration, Laurel, Miss.

*R. W. Hort, 13th and K Sts., N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C., chief accountant of the public schools of the
District of Columbia; “Quite a large amount of water
has passed under the bridge since I was last in Lex-
ington. Washington and Lee is just as dear to my
heart and I am just as loyal an ‘Albert Sidney’ as in
the days of long ago.”

A. M. DEAL, Statesboro, Ga., of Deal and Renfrue,
lawyers: “I want to thank you for your list furnished
me, and congratulate you upon your zeal for the cause
in undertaking this’ drive. I am struck by the small
number remaining, accounted for and in life of the
class of ’96. The whole number, including graduates
and non-graduates amounting to only 67. As I remem-
ber it, the law class alone furnished above 60 applicants
for the B.L. degree. I can’t imagine that this number
should have dwindled to 19 reported in your list. Any-
thing that tends to renew my recollection of Washington
and Lee, as well as my connection therewith, always
brings great pleasure to me. You happen to be one
of the law class whom I remember personally. I also
remember very vividly Timberlake, Thrift, Ripy Penn,
Paul Penick, Frank Moore, Larimore, Carr, Carlock,
Lattomus, and Baker. I feel honored that the records
disclose that I was a member of that class.”

B. F. (Pat) Harrow, Lexington, Va., editor and
manager of the Lexington Gazette, Harlow’s Print
Shop, Inc., publication and commercial printers.

S. A. THompson, Stuart, Va., lawyer, is an in-
valid from partial paralysis, of more than one year.

H. V. Canter, 126 Lincoln Hall, University of
Chicago, Urbana, Ill. “Long, long the days, years
even, since I saw you! I did not know that you were

[55 ]

err. EB A ee a ee

in Norfolk. In fact, I thought you had returned to
Radford to continue the good work of your father
there. Washington and Lee has done nobly in its
work and expansion since our days there. I am not
at all surprised, however, to hear that it is cramped
for funds, for this is a fate that has overtaken educa-
tional institutions generally. The situation is one of
genuine peril and one toward which I fear the public
is much too complacent. There is the danger that the
severe and drastic cuts being made for educational pur-
poses may injure colleges and universities for years.
Meanwhile, to revive the old phrase, it is a condition
not a theory that confronts education. Funds are sim-
ply not available on the old scale. Normally our own
running expenses are seven millions a year. During the
past year the University of Illinois saved and turned
back to the State more than 22 per cent of this sum.
We have had two cuts in salary and are due for further
reductions all along the line. I know a high-grade
midwest college that has been cut in running budget
53 per cent. I do not know about the salary scale or
its maintenance at Washington and Lee, as Dr. Gaines’
letter gives no hint on that point. If salaries have not
been reduced, this may have to come. I hope the alum-
ni movement may bring substantial relief. With every
good wish to you in your laudable effort and to you
personally.”

D. Cummins SATTERWHITE, 67 Carlton St.,
Brookline, Mass., connected with the New England dis-
tribution of LaSalle and Cadillac automobiles.

Joun Epwasp Burwe -t, Floyd C. H., Va.; “I
note you say there are 67 of the class of "96 surviving.
So far as I know that is correct. Many of the class
having passed on, among them, as I am informed, Set-
tle, G. H. Penn, A. B. Hunt, Harry Wurzberger. Oc-
casionally I see J. M. Hooker of Stuart, John R.
Smith of Martinsville, O. C. Brewer of Pulaski, and
Frank Moore of Lexington. I have never seen or
heard anything from Frank Bosshardt, of San Anton-
io, Texas; Cecil Conner, as you doubtless know, is in
the State Senate of Virginia.”

*J. W. Larromus, Citizens Bank Bldg., Wilming-
ton, Del., has two sons in the University of Delaware,
hopes to see organized a fortieth reunion in 1936.

*BRADEN VANDEVENTER, Citizens Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va., of Vandeventer, Eggleston and Black,
lawyers.

Dr. Ruret E. Esersoite, Norfolk, Va., medical
officer in charge of U. S. Marine Hospital, Norfolk,
residence 1211 Manchester Ave. ‘Please accept my
thanks for your recent letter which reached me yester-
day. I was at Washington and Lee, a member of the
class of 1898, leaving Washington and Lee University
in 1896 to take up the study of medicine at the Univer-

[ 56 ]

I

_letter, as I am in a position to know the present ne

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

M A GA Z 1° Ne

sity of Virginia, where I graduated with the M.D. de-_
gree, in 1900. While at Washington and Lee I was —
awarded the Luther Seevers Birely scholarship for the —
session of 1895-96, which I appreciated very much, —
Since leaving college, I spent about 27 years in the ©
U.S. Public Health Service, formerly the U. S. Marine —
Hospital Service, and was retired for physical disabil-
ity due to service in May, 1927. As my wife was from ~
Mississippi, we lived in Biloxi, Miss., for about a year
and a half following my retirement, but we came here—
in 1928-29, and my son, now about 20 years old, is a
second classman at V. M. I., and will be a law student —
at one of our Virginia schools very soon. [I still live ©
in the past in the old school which in my day was a
very high class Southern school, with the Lee spirit —
still there, although the religious atmosphere there was —
strongly Presbyterian then. It was very pleasant in-—
deed to meet and talk to our president at the luncheon
some months ago, we have a fine man for the office for
which he has been chosen, and I hope that I may have
the pleasure of again meeting the alumni, at luncheons, —
or similar occasions, from time to time. With you as —
the chapter’ president and Hoffman as secretary, I
think the remainder of the alumni should get together
from time to time and revive the old spirit which has
carried on for so many years. I enclose papers sent |
me and trust that the alumni may meet some time soon
and let us revive Auld Lang Syne.” 7
*PauL M. Penick, Lexington, Va., treasurer of
Washington and Lee. “Considering the fact that we
have been such close neighbors all our lives, we have
seen remarkably little of each other. In fact, I do not
recall having seen you over four or five times (and —
then for only a few minutes in passing) since the
palmy days of 1896. I saw Charlie Dice in Lewisburg”
not long ago and he had his class picture in his office
and knew pretty well what had become of the boys in~
our law class. I found what he told me very inter-
esting and have looked up my old picture and have.
listed on it all the names of those in the picture. If
you have this picture, I shall be glad to send you the
names in the order in which they come. I wish you”
would come up here oftener. You have a number of |
old friends here in Lexington who will always be glad
to welcome you. Regarding the subject matter of your.

cessities of the University, I am glad to make a con-
tribution to such a worthy cause.’ 4

*F RANK Moores, Lexington, Va., member of the
Virginia House of Delegates for Rockbridge Coun y
and the City of Buena Vista, has privileges many Of
his classmates envy him being in this part of Virginia.

*... W. Smitrx, Lexington, Va. Professor 0
Mathematics, Washington and Lee. |

- pom A ee ay ae Oy

I

DO. ie Ge A ee ee

 

**SrockToN Hern Tyrer, Seaboard Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

**F{. H. LArrimore, Missouri Pacific Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

**W, R. McCain, 670 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

Unknown Address
A letter to the following was returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
WiLLiAM E. We tcuH, Boonville, Mo.

Informa-

In Memoriam

GABRIEL HowkE PENN
WiLuiAM J. TowLer
November 9, 1932

1895

52 men
Class-agent: *Dr. THomas J. Farrar, Lexington, Va.

HoweELi J. Davis, Knoxville, Tenn., vice-presi-
dent of the Volunteer Portland Cement Co.

*GEoRGE R. Hunt, Trust Co. Bldg., Lexington,
Ky., of Hunt and Bush, lawyers.

*MauricE Moore, 611 Pearl St., Lynchburg, Va.,
celebrated Finals on Alumni Day with Mrs. Moore.

Rosert J. McBrypg, 130 South Fifth St., Louis-
ville, Ky., of James C. Wilson & Co., investment se-
curities.

*REV. FRANK Mezick, Arrington, Va.

*DEMPSEY WEAVER, 178 Second Ave.,
Nashville, Tenn.

*HERBERT Boutpin Hawes, Spout Spring, Va.,
writes a letter of such universal and comprehensive
sentiment, a creed, so to speak, of an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee, that it is printed elsewhere complete.

*B. L. ANCELL, Yangchow, China, Episcopal min-
ister, founder and head of Mahan School, closed for
six years because he refused to disavow his Christian
foundation, then reopened upon his principles at the
request of the government.

**\W_u. McCuresngéy Martin, 5055 Waterman
Ave., St. Louis, Mo.

North

1894
58 men
Class-agent: *JAMES VeEECH, 3907 Frankfort Ave.,
Louisville, Ky.

G. E. MERRILL, Colonel U.S.A., 344 Federal Bldg.,
Milwaukee, Wisc., has a nephew, Billy Allen, a soph-
omore in Washington and Lee.

*Newton D. Baker, Union Trust Bldg., Cleve-
land, Ohio, a trustee of the University, of too various,
too familiar distinction to brief here.

*H. M. Bratn, 1738 Calhoun St., New Orleans,
La., writes a merry letter saying that his children are

all of age and that he still has many pleasant memories
of his old friends made in Lexington.

R. R. Turner, 401 Lyle St., Dallas, Oregon.

Dr. H. G. Reynotps, City National Bank Bldg.,
Paducah, Ky. At the head of a large hospital. Time
has been kind to him both as to looks and success.
He is the youngest looking man I have seen in years
who belonged to 1894.

W. J. LinpENBERGER, 149 California St., San
Francisco, Cal. He wished he could return to those
joyful days when he piloted the winning crew down
North River. He wrote in fine spirits and appeared
to enjoy his work.

Dr. C. W. Stricker, 123 Forest Ave., Atlanta,
Ga., a brother-in-law of Dr. Geo. H. Denny and a son
of a former Rector, his heart is always warm toward
Washington and Lee and Lexington where he was well
known and liked. His success as a doctor has been
very marked in Atlanta.

*Dr. JAMES BELL Buttirr, Chapel Hill, N. C.
Professor in Medical Department, University of North
Carolina, wrote warmly, personally, in fullest devotion
to all affairs and the future of Washington and Lee.

**Hon. Newton D. Baker, Union Trust Bldg.,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Unknown Addresses
Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Harry BERTRAM Lewis, Charleston, III.
Huspert NAsH DILitarp, Rocky Mount, N. C.

Informa-

1893
+ 68 men

Class-agent: *HARRINGTON WADDELL, Lexington, Va.,
principal Lexington High School.

*Lon H. Kerry, Rarawha Valley Bldg., Charles-
ton, West Va., lawyer with Brown, Jackson & Knight.
Appointed United States Attorney for the Southern
District of West Virginia by Woodrow Wilson in 1917.
In 1924 became member of the law firm mentioned
above. Three children. Robert, student at Washington
and Lee, went to France in 1918, graduated at West
Virginia in 1924, member of the same firm, Demo-
cratic State Chairman, married, one son and two daugh-
ters. His daughter Janet is Mrs. Joe W. Savage,
whose husband is Secretary to the State Medical As-
sociation, three sons, two of them twins. His youngest
daughter Virginia, graduate of Goucher College, teaches
in the Charleston Public Schools. Residence of Lon
H. Kelly, 1416 Quarrier St., Charleston.

FRANK Fatiton, 210 South Jefferson St., Roa-
noke, Va., florist.

*R. L. Peck, Sr., Bell Bldg., Springfield, Tenn.,

[ 57 ]

2 ae om Sieme * Be ase

I

MAGA zi Nea

 

wishes, as many have similarly expressed it, that his
response could be ten times the amount.

*H. W. Myers, 24 Nakayamate Dori, 2 Chome,
Kobe, Japan, writes from the greatest distance, in
record promptness “‘within an hour of receiving your
letter.” In other parts it runs: “We are still living in
a little apartment on a busy, noisy street, but are really
very comfortable indeed. Grace sees to it that things
are pretty, and they are pretty too. I think we will
get back into our own home by September at latest.
I have in prospect a most interesting trip this summer.
I have been invited to be chief speaker at two confer-
ences in Formosa, one in Tamsui in the north, and one
in Tainan in the south of the island. At the close of
the conference in Tainan, the friends there are arrang-
ing for me to take a climb up some of the high moun-
tains, perhaps Mt. Niitaka, which looms up high above
the top of Mt. Fuji, and is the highest mountain in the
Empire. This may seem rather strenuous for an aged
missionary “‘veteran’” as I am sometimes called, but
the last time I climbed Mt. Fuji was in mid-winter,
when the top of the mountain was coated with snow
and ice. ‘That is a stunt that few Japanese have ever
undertaken. It was one of the things that Richard
Haliburton bragged about in his book. Another thing
that I brag about most inordinately is my ability to go
swimming all winter in the bay here. I swam several
times in December, once in January and once in Febru-
ary, and this is the fourth winter that I have kept this
up. It is really not so strenuous as it seems, and I
have never caught cold from the exposure.”

*R. E. Acree, Mayfield, Ky., Obion Valley To-
bacco Farm, from grower to consumer, high grade
Kentucky Natural Leaf Tobacco. Admitted to the bar
in 1894, never practiced. Married in 1912, two grown
sons. Conducts his own business, sells by mail, has
interesting leaflets for distribution with prices.

Cuar_LeEs E. Heaton, Point of Rocks, Md., lives
with his mother who is 90, in a country community
where he had responsibilities.

T. Potx Smiru, Clarksville, Tenn., married, one
daughter living in New York. Since 1897, has been in
the tobacco business, now in tobacco brokerage.

*K. M. Jackson, 604 West 162nd St., New York
City, practiced law in Carrollton, Mo., and St. Louis,
veteran of Spanish-American War (4th Regt. Mo.
Inf., U.S. Vol.). After the war, went to Joplin, Mo.,
and soon thereafter represented Public Service Cor-
poration in southwestern Missouri, southeastern Kan-
sas and northern Oklahoma. In 1901, he married
Miss Nellie Crist, of Kansas City, the union being
blessed with two sons and two daughters (inclusive
of twins) and the Bed Time Stories consisted largely
of Franchises, Rights-of-way and Condemnation Pro-

———

ceedings. Was also president or director in lead and —
zinc mining companies. In 1910, with his family, he ~
went to New York City, where he settled down as vice-
president or director in various enterprises. His hob-
bies are States Rights, Mid-Victorian Standards, and —
Bridge. 3
R. E. Wane, 534 Smithson Ave., Lawrence Park, —
Erie, Penn., reviews past history. ;

R. P. Atten, Old Spring Hill, Ala., president —
the County Board of Education, Marengo County, —
Alabama, cotton planter, recalls with tenderness, his old —
associations and “As I bring this letter to a close, I —
pause and ask God to bless the sixty-eight men of —
1893 and their families and the families of the others —
of the class who have passed on.”

W. R. Bonnycast ce, 408 Providence Bldg., Van- —
couver, B. C., consulting engineer, civil, electric, hy-_
dro-electric developments. Was in the Yukon terri-
tory. Still in winter when his class letter reached him. —
Has resided in Canada for twenty-eight years minus
four spent overseas, 1915-1919. Went to Massachu- —
setts Institute of Technology for four years after
leaving Washington and Lee, served one year in the
United States Army in Cuba, was engineer in the ©
western States and Mexico for five years. Prospects ©
of engineering and mining developments now brighter. —

*Wittiam L. Dasney, 5902 Garfield St., New —
Orleans, La., sends cordial proof of his regards for
all that concerns Washington and Lee.

CHARLES Lyons, Commercial Bank Bldg., Lex- —
ington, Mo., of the law firm of Lyons and Ristine.

W. N. Brisco, 1613 West Clinch Ave., Knox-
ville., Tenn. F

*Ropert L. Hyarr, Monticello, Ark., practiced |
law in Texas 1893-95, in Monticello 1895-1901, cash- 1
ier Monticello Bank until 1905, then of the Monticello —
Bank & Trust Co., then vice-president of Monticello —
Union Bank & Trust Co. 3

B. W. Peyton, manager Hotel Kanawha, Char- —
leston, West Va. .

SAMUEL S. LAmBeErH, Bedford, Va., an invalid —
for the past year. :

H. W. Pratt, Box 331, Columbia, S. C., is Stated —
Clerk of the Synod of South Carolina of the Presby- ©
terian Church, unafraid in the face of great stringen-—
cies upon his work and his own living.

*EDMUND P. Cores, 200 South Tryon St., Char-—
lotte, N. C., is the local representative of the General —
Electric Co., responds with less than he would like, but —
more than most. 5

WELLS GoopykKoontz, Williamson, West Va., at-_
torney, Goodykoontz & Slaven, is in the coal fields.

WIL.t1AM MELLIN BALLow, 2 East Lexington St., —
Baltimore, Md. | 3

[ 58 ]

 

7, H E AD oe Me ON

—

Dr. GeorcE BoLtiinc L&E, The Plaza, New York
City, member of the Board of Trustees of Washington
and Lee University.

Dr. Joun J. Frx, Box 404, Bristol, Tenn., is the
director of the Department of Religious Education,
Synod of Appalachia.

R. W. Jopiinc, Lancaster, S. C., is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church. Wife and 16-year old daughter,
sees needs close at home and helps supply them.

Dr. ANDREW H. Woops, Psychopathic Hospital,
Iowa City, Iowa, is director of this special hospital of
the State University of Iowa. Has five children in
yarious universities, helps support two institutions in
China.

V. E. Funxuousesr, 2425 Jefferson St., Kansas
City, Mo., president Funkhouser Equipment Company,
equipment, machinery, supplies for contractors, rail-
roads, industries, is happy to have news.

**Dr. GEORGE BoLtinc L&kr, The Plaza, New
York City.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned.
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

Jounson LEE Banxson, St. Louis, Mo.

Rosert Ecuorts Jorpan, New York City

In Memoriam
FREDERICK LOUIS SHAFER
June 9, 1925
Tuomas BEEBE Ripy
May 17, 1929
CHARLES HERBERT BLAND
1929
THomas GLOVER IVIE
July, 1931

1892
59 men

Class-agent: *Hon. Joun W. Davis, 15 Broad St.,
New York City

*\WV. ReyNoLtps VANCE, New Haven, Conn. Pro-
fessor of Law in the Yale School of Law, distinguished
in academic and legal attainments, class-agent next
year for 1892.

*Harry A. ALBRIGHT, Columbus, Miss.

*’T HOMAS JESSE JoNEs, 101 Park Ave., New York
City.

**HERBERT FITZPATRICK, Terminal Tower, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

**WarctTeR McEvLreatu, Atlanta Trust Company
Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

**Hon. Joun W. Davis, 15 Broad St., New York.

In Memoriam

Avucustus LEE DABNEY
August 23, 1926

Informa-

I

MA Gee eo ee

1891
52 men
Class-agent: *JounN M. GraAnam, Rome, Ga., president
National City Bank of Rome.

F. A. ForsyrHe, Lexington, Ky., head of the
Kentucky Horsemen’s Association, and works for their
good in every way. Has four children from 7 to 12.

Dr. ALFRED B. CLaytor, North Street and Long-
wood Road, Bedford, Va., reviews his opinions on
taxes, tax legislation, tax reforms and the rights oi
private property.

Duke Hunter Hurraker, Box 1213, El Paso,
Texas.

W. W. Gaines, Atlanta National Bank Bldg.,
Atlanta, Ga., lawyer, visited Lexington this spring for
the second time since 1891.

W. R. McCann, 305 Hall of Justice, Los Angeles,
Cal., harks back, “I have often remembered among
other things you and Rees Turpin disappearing over
the hills going coon hunting.”

JoHN CARMICHAEL, Hagerstown, Md., is called
Colonel there.

M. Asusy Jones, 28 Twelfth St., N.E., Atlanta,
Ga., gave up his pastorate in St. Louis last spring a
year ago. Preaches, speaks, writes, doing odd jobs
in civic life.

Dr. J. H. Bickerstarr, Blount Bldg., Pensacola,
Florida.

Dr. McPueeters Giascow, 309 Jackson Bldg.,
Nashville, Tenn.

lL. N. Davis, Ashland, Ky., has been unwell, re-
covering, recuperating, roaming.

Mitrs PoinpExTER, 1750 M St., N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C., practicing in the Capital. |

Mon’ J. Gosie, vice-president The Fifth Third
Union Trust Co., Cincinnati, Ohio, a ten million dol-
lar bank, one of the Big Three in Cincinnati.

*FRANK A. NeEtson, 823 James Bldg., Chatta-
nooga, Tenn., has warm remembrances and impulses
and gives in generously to both.

*JosEpH A. GLascow, Staunton, Va., Circuit
Judge.

**JoHN M. GraHAM, Rome, Ga.

Unknown Address
A letter to the following was returned. Informa-

tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
WILLIAM GREEN, Waco, Texas

In Memoriam
Rev. Joun Louis McCiune
Dr. FRANK Ross SHERARD
December 30, 1932
MALLory FREDERICK HorRNE
February 8, 1933

[ 59 ]

Je Th oe oe

1890

43 men
Class-agent: *DEAN DoucLas ANpErSON, Tulane Uni-
versity, New Orleans, La., Dean of the
College of Engineering.

*FREDERICK M. Hupson, Box 904, Miami, Fla.,
of Hudson and Cason, lawyers, Seybold Bldg., “I wish
it were possible for me to attend the next commence-
ment and meet some of the old crowd again, but I
find that it is out of the question, although I was a
little uncertain when I received your first letter. For
several summers in recent years I have spent some time
in Lexington with my family, but I have not been able
to be there in recent years during the session. It is
a great pleasure to be in touch again and I should like
very much to have the pleasure of renewing our friend-
ships of a little more than 40 years ago. I occasionally
go to New Orleans to the Federal Court’ of Appeals.
Judge Nathan P. Bryant of that court, is a good friend
of mine, a Florida man, who was at Washington and
Lee directly after I left.”

*Davip B. Maccowan, 6 Englische Anlage,
Berne, Switzerland, a change of residence from Riga,
Latvia, where he was Secretary of the Legation, writes
with charm and the light and gallant touch.

F. A. Coucu, Shady Spring, West Va., not well,
retired from the practice of dentistry to the country
and its serenity, from where he writes in a mellow
and happy mood of remembrance.

Guy FE. Manninc, Captain United States Army,
retired, 164 North Remington Road, Bexley, Colum-
bus, Ohio. Started Army career during Spanish-Amer-
ican War and has done nothing else since, regrets the
economy law cuts, but has great hopes in President
Roosevelt, thinks he will rout old man depression be-
fore he gets through, is a Democrat notwithstanding
the fact that he was born north of the Mason and
Dixon line. “When I was at Washington and Lee
I was the only student in the school from north of the
line and they used to call me ‘Yank’ in the most affec-
tionate kind of way.” A master Mason, regrets the pas-
sing of Bixby Willis. Recalls a week spent in Kansas
City with Willis, Jesse Vineyard, Pete Withers and
Tout.

*BENTON S. RupgE, Albany, New York, Commis-
sioner, The Capitol, writes from Southern Pines,
N. C., where he spends two months in the season, after
the close of the Legislature. “I didn’t know many
of the fellows outside of the law school, though I took
Latin on the side, under the tutelage of that master of
the subject, Prof. Carter Harris (“Old Nick”). We
had in the junior law classes a boy from Mississippi
by the name of Joseph Turpin Drake. I never con-
tacted with a brighter brain in my life. Often won-

[ 60 ]

I

   
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
    
    
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   

MA GA Z ik eae

dered how he turned out. I thank you for giving
me the chance to make the enclosed contribution.”
Rev. Jonn S. Buntine, 5544 Cates Ave., St,
Louis, Mo. “I have not met but one or two Washing. |
ton and Lee men since I left the University. I have
been very happily located in the Church of the As-
cension in St. Louis for a number of years. I find
the work of religion now is desperately hard, which,
I suppose is the reason for its existence.” 4
H,. M. Heuser, Wytheville, Va., attorney, “I have
not kept up with many of my classmates except in
the most general way. Many have of course passed
away since we separated in June, 1890. Business has
called me to Lexington two or three times since and
I found the old town and University equipment very
much improved during that period. I attended one
commencement, along 1915, I think—the time of a
special feature complimenting Prof. C. A. Graves.
Most of my life has been spent in this, my old home
town, practicing my profession, still enjoying goo
health but wrestling mightily with the depression, and
hoping that Roosevelt will down him in the next round. |
During this period I have been Mayor of my town a
few times and have served five terms as Common-
wealth’s Attorney for the County.” ,
Epwin T. Coman, 599 Fourth St., San Rafael,
Cal., vice-president of the American Trust Company.
Dr. Wittiam F. (Bitty) Watz, Lexington, Ky.,
of the Kentucky Board of Dental Examiners. ‘There
were two men at college with us whom I often think
of and wonder what has become of them, George God-
dard and Church White. I used to play tennis with
them quite often. Ruby Laffoon, our present Gover-
nor of Kentucky was in the law school of ’89. I see
him quite often, in fact every Monday afternoon I
have to make a trip to Frankfort and always stop in
to see the Governor. I am just entering my 21st year
as a member of the Kentucky State Board of Dental
Examiners having been appointed for another five year
term by the Governor, last year. I take a great deal
of interest in this State Board work and give it a lot,
of my time. It is my hohby.” i
PLiny FisHBURNE, Waynesboro, Va., of Fish-
burne & Son, prescription druggists, also interested
in Fishburne Military School. 4q
W. D. Payne, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg., Char-
leston, West Va., of Payne, Minor and Bouchelle,
lawyers. -
*A. K. Bowxrs, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, assistant
controller of the Consolidation Coal Company, sends
evidence of his sympathy, affection and approval. ‘
Har. L. Norwoop, Little Rock, Ark., attorney-
general.
*J. T.. Morcan, Memphis, Tenn., of the Happy

| H E A Ay MN

Feed Mills, Inc., feeds for farm animals. “I have
always had a deep affection for the old school, even
though my connection with it was slight. Have grad-
uated two sons there, have a third one there now, and a
fourth one ‘rarin’’ to go. The Ring-tum Phi comes
regularly to my home, and I have read it assiduously.
It was my pleasure to take Dr. Gaines around when
he was here some two years ago, fine man. Wash-
ington and Lee is most fortunate, I think, in having
acquired him. The alumni should back him to the
limit.”

*GEORGE WALKER ST. Crair, Tazewell, Va., pres-
ident of the Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation, Rector
of the University.

*Eumerr R. Conner, Ft. Worth, Texas, of E. R.
Conner & Co., stationers, at Fifth and Throckmorton.
“Since leaving school I have been in this business
which was started by my father in 1877, and it has
been my good fortune to have been able to carry on.
I have been able to accumulate a little on the side.
Conditions, I hope, will soon change to enable me to
retire and enjoy the later days of my life. I gather
from your letter one out of ten still living. How thank-
ful we should be that we are of the minority.”

C. A. Wooren, Helena, Ark., cotton broker, “Life
has been full of many good things, and I should not
dare to complain about the present. While somewhat
bereft of fortune, I still have a happy little family,
and my eldest daughter has recently presented us with
a little granddaughter. Have another married daugh-
ter, and a young son nearing eighteen. Have been
planning to send him to Washington and Lee, but
unless times improve with me soon, I shall be com-
pelled to forego this pleasure and send him up to the
State University. I was back in Lexington in 1915,
and for a few days time rolled back and I was almost
a boy again.”

**DEAN DoucLas S. ANDERSON, Tulane Univer-
sity, New Orleans, La.

**GEORGE WALKER S’7. CLAIR, Tazewell, Va.

**7. T. Nogtr, Jr., 303 Madison St., Lynchburg,
Virginia.

Unknown Addresses

Letters to the following were returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.

GerorcE B. TALIAFERRO, San Antonio, Texas

Isaac WinsuHIP CABANIss, Detroit, Mich.

OwrEN WEBLE Massey, Macon, Ga.

In Memoriam
Count HepEr FuKuoKA
Japan, November 27, 1932
Gus HousKeLtt HAmMpTon
1923

I

iiici co sccis Rca telah ace aa

JAMmEs LitrLe DAvipson
October, 1929
Brxsy WILLIS
March 31, 1933

Countess Fumika Fukuoka, daughter of Count
Fukuoka, writes : “June 1, 1933
‘Dear Pro. Anderson: Thank you for your letter
to my father. If this letter had reached him before
his death, he would have been very glad with the re-
membrances of forty years ago. My father died on
the 27th of November, last year. He had been ill for
about four years but to his last, he had never given up
his hope of revisiting America and his Alma Mater.
“Sincerely yours,
59 Kanatomi-cho, “Miss Fumiko Fukuoka”
Koishikawa,
Tokyo, Japan.
1889
32 men
Class-agents: *Hon. Wave H. ELtis, and *JupcE
JAMEs QuaRLEs, Southern Bldg., Washington, D. C.

*J. T. Draxe, Port Gibson, Miss., of Drake and
Drake, lawyers.

*Dr. JoHN Wittr1Am Moore, Charleston, West
Virginia.

*A. G. Ewrnc, Nashville Trust Company Bldg.,
Nashville, Tenn.

*Epwarp B. McCatt, Briggsville, Ark.

1888

7 31 men
Class-agent: *Cart. GREENLEE D. LETCHER, Lexing-
ton, Va.

*FRHARD R. GUENTHER, San Antonio, Texas.
President Pioneer Flour Mills, an establishment 84
years old. “My daughter, Marie Louise, and I have
just returned from a little trip to old Mexico, where,
among other things, we drove with an automobile up
the volcano ‘Nevada De Toluca,’ fifteen thousand feet
and then down into the crater two thousand feet where
there are two lakes; the Lake of the Sun and the Lake
of the Half Moon; so named on account of their shapes.
The crater has been extinct for many years and the
water formed therein is perfectly delicious drinking
water. This trip was especially interesting to me,
since I had climbed this mountain some forty years
ago with burros and mules. I had joined a botanist
party, led by a Mr. Pringle, who was collecting plants
for the Smithsonian Institute at Washington and the
British Museum of the City of Mexico. We had with
us a few Mexican soldiers, as guards and a few In-
dian guides. The ascent then took three days and this
last time with an automobile, we did the same in an
afternoon, in about eight hours.”

[ 61 ]

1 i A «#4 si oN

I

 
 

MAGA Zid ia

 

Joun G. Hayrue, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.,
lawyer.

Joun P. East, 149 Broadway, New York City,
counsellor at law, former president of the New York
Chapter of the Washington and Lee Alumni Associa-
tion, loyal, active, practical. His associations in Lex-
ington and the whole community have always been
kept in good order.

J. H. Gorrett, Wake Forest, N. C., head of the
department of modern languages, Wake Forest Col-
lege. “It is hard for me to realize that it has been
forty-five years since we left college, but since I am
just completing forty years of teaching, you are cor-
rect in the passage of time. I, of course, can never
repay the debt of love I owe to my Alma Mater and I
shall never cease to have my heart filled with gratitude
for the training given me by the great and good men
at whose feet I sat. And I am no less grateful for the
fine comradeship and genuine friendship of such men
as you, and John Davis, and Lancy Harris and Fitz-
patrick and a host of others. »

“As my life insurance is (I am afraid) the largest
part of what I shall leave of my earthly possessions,
I have made as generous provision in my will for
Washington and Lee as I could, not in any respect to
pay a debt but as a testimony of love. . . . Of course
I shall throw all my influence in sending students when
the opportunity presents itself. I have both here and
in Raleigh made public statements of the greatness
and the glory of old Washington and Lee.

“As I grow older my heart is warmed by the re-
membrance of the few remaining Lexington boys
whom I knew and loved.”

G. Tuomas Dun op, Colorado Bldg., Washing-
ton, D. C., attorney and counsellor at law.

Justice Henry W. Hort, Staunton, Va., assoc-
iate on the Supreme Court of Appeals.

LANcELot M. Harris, Charleston, S. C., depart-
ment of English, College of Charleston, has pictur-
esque memories and recalls them with great charm.

R. E. R. Netson, 30 East Beverly St., Staunton,
Va., attorney of the firm of Timberlake and Nelson.

Unknown Address
A letter to the following was returned. Informa-
tion requested by Cy Young, Lexington, Va.
Epwarp GrirritH Davis, Baton Rouge, La.

In Memoriam
Dr. Puittiep PERcy PARRISH

1887

33 men

Sanpy P. Ficcat, 118 South First St., Roanoke,
Va., ill from a cerebral hemorrhage on April 28th.

[ 62 ]

—

   
  
  
   
   
      
    
     
  
 
 
  
  
  

LesLiE LYLE CAMPBELL, 15 Ware St., Cambridge,
Mass. j
J. E. West, Suffolk, Va., of West and Withers,
general insurance. 4
1886

21 men a

*GrorGE A. Waucuoper, University of South—
Carolina, Columbia, S. C., head of the English depart--
ment, through great stringencies himself and all about
him, comes back in memory, in gratitude, in generosity,

1885

23 men 4

*Cyrus GivENS Brown, 106 Jennings St., Ben-—
nettsville, S. C. “Lexington is my native town, being
reared sixteen miles north of Lexington in the country, -
Am proud of the fact that I am an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee University. Am one of the “Old-
Boys,” having left the University in 1885, almost a
half century ago. Graduated at Union Seminary in.
1888. Spent the next four years as a Missionary in
Japan. Returned for health reasons in 1892. Since
that time have had five successful pastorates. Havi
reached the age limit, was honorably retired in 1929,
Have three children, one son a minister. Now in the
Y.M.C.A. work in Roumania. ‘Two daughters, one
the wife of a successful business man in Florence,
S. C., the other, wife of the Presbyterian minister in
Bennettsville, S. C. Lost my wife in 1931. Mz
my home with my daughters.” .

1884

19 men }
*’THOMAS STONEWALL KyLz, Box 458, Gadsden,
Ala., president Kyle Realty Co. 7

ng

In Memoriam
HAVILAND STEVENSON
Davip Harris Goopwin
FRANK McGrecor ROANE
January 2, 1932

1883
19 men

Rev. Henry PETER SCRATCHLEY, Henderson-
ville, N. C. |

In Memoriam
Joun Lewis Rowan

1882

16 men

1881

11 men

1880

9 men |
*Cot. WALTER S. ForresTER, Lexington, Va., Te

 

> oe aA Oe UW GT aa Gf ae a Oe oe
tired, in ease, with grace, dispenses charm and wit, 1872
shares his goods, lives actively, richly. 21 men

1879

13 men
* **JoHN M. GLENN, One Lexington Ave., New
York City.
1878

13 men

1877

11 men
Dr. J. H. DitLarp, Box 418, Charlottesville, Va.,
writes from St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, where an
educational mission took him.

1876
27 men
*Dr. WiLttaAm Exvviorr Dorp, Rivercrest Sanitor-
ium, Astoria, Long Island, N. Y., is the physician in
charge, constantly engaged and absorbed in his respon-
sibilities, yet time for a letter filled with memories,
with wonderings about the fate and whereabouts of his
classmates only three of whom can be reported.
*WaLcTteR H. HorrmMan, 1518 State St., New Or-
leans, La.
J. H. Prarr, Box 166, Tampa, Fla.
*JoHN M. Rosinson, Route 1, Box 282, Shreve-
port, La., writes from deep and warm remembrances.

1875

12 men
Rev. H. S. Cor, Edinburg, Va., has had three sons
graduate at Washington and Lee and a grandson
here now.
1874
15 men
*THe Ricut Rev. JAMEs R. WINCHESTER, Bishop
of the Episcopal Church, retired, 1515 Spring St.,
Little Rock, Ark., pays a loving tribute, asks God's
blessing, wants the roster of his classmates.
F. E. Gotpruwalts, 1453 Marais St., New Or-
leans, La.
*KMMETT W. McCorx et, Sr., Ashland, Ky.,
writes in grateful appreciation.

In Memoriam
*THOMAS SMITH PURDIE
April, 1923
Harry ALLEN

1873

15 men
Joun §. McExroy, Springfield, Ky., agent,
Farm Department of the Home Insurance Co., of New
York.

In Memoriam
Rev. WILLIAM Boyle

[ 63

Dr. S. H. Cuester, Montreat, N. C., spent 35
years in the Foreign Mission Office, now retired, cel-
ebrated in Lexington the 59th anniversary of his grad-
uation and received honorary Phi Beta Kappa. Be-
sides Bishop Winchester of Arkansas, the only sur-
vivor of the 21 students who formed the guard at
General Lee’s bier while he lay in state in the Chapel.

Isaac W. STEPHENS, 800 Eighth Ave., Ft. Worth,
Texas, has 14 grandchildren and one great-grandchild
and his influence will bend them toward Washington

and Lee. In Memoriam

SoLAN EpWaArRD FRANKLIN ROSE
January 30, 1933

1871

10 men
In Memoriam
Ropert WITHERSPOON
December 17, 1930

1870

11 men

1869

13 men
E. W. Wittiams, 1306 West 6th St., Pine Bluff,
Ark., recalls his visit to General Lee in his home, not
well now, nearly blind.
J. W. Locxerr, 5237 Waterman Ave., St. Louis,
Mo. ‘My love for the college is abiding though I
haven't visited the college since 1869.”

**GrEO. A. MAHAN, Hannibal, Mo.

 

‘*“McCRUM’S”

As Always The Gathering Place Of
ALUMNI
STUDENTS
AND
FRIENDS
Of
Washington and Lee

UNEXCELLED FOUNTAIN SERVICE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

Rie ara aad need ciel

Class-agents for 1933-34

1932—Henry W. MacKenzik and Aven S. Carr,
Building and Loan Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1931—Watter E. Horrman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

1930—HErRBERT G. JAHNCKE, 1807 Calhoun St.,
Orleans, La.

1929—Lewis F. Powe tt, Jr., Atlantic Life Bldg.,
Richmond, Va.

1928—Rosert F. Howr, Walton Rice Mill, Inc., Stutt-
gart, Ark.

1927—Zres H. Hernvon, McDowell Company Bank
Bldg., Welch, West Va.

1926—Basit G. Warxins, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg,
Virginia.

1925—JouN Cooper Morrison, Jr., Kanawha Valley
Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Va.

1924—-W. GoopriDcE SALE, Jr., Sale, St. Clair & Sale,
Welch, West Va.

1923—Douc.as P. Winco, 1012 Crawford Bldg., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

1922—Rosert M. Berar, Department of Education,
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.

1921—Tuomas X. Parsons, Colonial-American Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

1920—R. M. CaBE LL, Covington, Va.

1919—L. T. Brown, Lott-Merlin, Inc.,
Connecticut.

1918—Joun H. McCuorp, 308 Euclid Ave., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

1917—WittiAm J. Cox, Department of Engineering
Mechanics, Sheffield Scientific School, Yale Uni-
versity, New Haven, Conn.

1916—Bruce F. Wooprurr, Trust Company of Geor-
gia Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

1915—Ki Witiiams, Waynesboro, Va.
1914—CrarENCE W. SacEr, 26 Broadway, New York.

1913—BENJAMIN F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg.,
Cleveland, Ohio.

1912—Wixiiam A. HyMaAn,
York City.

1911—A. Dana Hopcpon, Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

1910—LAuRENCE C. WITTEN,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

New

Bridgeport,

100 William St., New

Union Trust Bldg.,

[ 64 ]

MAG AZ 7am

1909—Dr. Joun WittiAM CLaupy, Rockview F
Farm, R.F.D. 3, Bellefonte, Penn.

1908—Dozier A. DEVANE, 744 Jackson Place,
Washington, D. C.
1907—W. L. Lorn, Woodberry Forest School, W
berry Forest, Va. {
1906—L,. Prertow Hotvanp, Suffolk National §
Bldg., Suffolk, Va.
1905—Dnr. E. S. Borce, 534 Falls Road, Rocky M Mi
North Carolina.
1904—GrorcE E. Haw, 403 Travelers Bldgs
mond, Va.
1903—Rrv. J. M. B. Gitt, St. Paul’s Rectory, Pe
burg, Va. *
1902—Dr. WititiaAm ALLAN,
lotte, N. C.
1901—MatrHEew Packt ANpbrREws, 849 Park
Baltimore, Md. -
1900—Hirton S. Hampton, Citizens Bank I
Tampa, Fla. #
1899—Harry Sr. G. T. CarmicnHakt, Kyrock,
1898—Cuas. J. FAULKNER, 316 South LaSz le
Chicago, IIl.
1897—F. Prrrre HAMILTON,
Orleans, La.
1896—Stocxton Hern Tyer, Seaboard Bank E
Norfolk, Va. o
1895—HErRBERT Boutpin HawEs, Spout Spring,
1894—James N. VeEEcu, 3907 Frankfort Ave., L
ville, Ky. 3
1893—Lon H. Ketty, Kanawha Valley Bank J
Charleston, West Va. ‘a
1892—W. Rrynotps VancE, Yale Law Schoo al,
Haven, Conn. "
1891—Joun M. Granam, National City
Rome, Rome, Ga. :
1890—Dran Douctas ANDERSON, Tulane Unive
New Orleans, La. a

    
   

Medical Bldg., f

408 Walnut Sty

Classes from 1889 through 1868 will have <

class-agent, the Alumni Secretary, who will kes
touch with them himself by personal letters.

 

Hi oa Ae ee: ee TE MS AO See ee eee

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washinzton and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

ecards in the directory. Rates on application.

THOS. F. OGILVIE GIBSON WITHERSPOON EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18-’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAW YER
204-208 Lawyers Building Douglas, Obear and Douglas
Atlantic City, New Jersey Meridian, Mississippi Southern Bldg., Washington, D. C.

 

 

BLANK & STOLLER, Inc. JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
oni oe ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Alumni Magazine Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building
227 E. 45th St., New York Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Il.

 

 

John H. Tucker, Jr., 710
TUCKER AND MASON
LAW OFFICES

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09 Commercial National Bank Building
Shreveport, Louisiana

PHILIP P. GIBSON
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW Compliments of

Marcum, Lovins and Gibson

First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

ELWOOD H. SEAL
Seal and Dice Pe ee Re GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

ATTORNEY -AT-LAW : Lewisburg, West Virginia
General practice in the courts of the Suite 301 Bank of America Building
District of renee Federal H. B. Moore, Principal
625 Market St., San Francisco, Cal.
Associate Income Tax Specialists J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Principal

Teleph
Tower Building, Washington, D. C. elephone EXbrook 0237

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

GENERAL AGENT

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and

Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally

good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

POO TB AL If

SCHEDULE
49:59

Sept. 23 West Virginia Charleston, W. Va.

 

 

Sept. 30 Roanoke College . . Lexington
Of. 7 William and Mary . _ Lexington
On 14 Yate. es ae...) ING; even
G7. .21 Kentucky “: . .» ‘Roanoke, Va.
O. 28 Princeton So-4so4 >) jie Premgeton
NOU: GN ER we 3G eee
Nov. 11 Virginia (Homecoming) Lexington
Nov. 18 Center College . . Danville, Ky.
Nov.25 Maryland . . College Park, Md.

 

 

For Ticket Reservations Write R. A. Smith, Director of Ath-
letics, Box 891, Lexington, Virginia

FOLLOW THE GENERALS

