’ . : ve oe : x oes : | | :
ASHINGTON & LEP UNLVERSIT)Y

. ; j f) /)
LEXINGTON, VA. W B | OL

The

Alumni Magazine

>
= ~~ a
ae ts
Ti2? aS x
-_-—— eS —— c+
TTP as Ns
0
- - — = '
. =

/ /

ty /
: Vy ZG g
a : oe

 

fo . 2 -

r . STL hy
ab . |

Fn... BE eR Som
ee | eee . a

 

February 1938

 

 

Class Agents for 1938

1937A—

1937 L—

1936A—Fletcher Maynard (Law student W. and L.).

1936 L—Charles B. Cross, 706 Professional Bldg., Portsmouth,
Virginia.

1935A—William Schuhle, Jr., 1107 Wise St., Lynchburg, Va.

1935L—W. W. Brown, Union Producing Co., Shreveport, La.

1934A—Ruge DeVan, care DeVan & Co., Charleston, W. Va.

1934L—Thomas D. Anderson, Gulf Building, Houston, Texas.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., care of Dunn & Bradstreet, East
Ohio Gas Bldg., N. E. C., Rockwell Ave., and East
Sixth St., Cleveland, Ohio.

1933L—Donald K. Crawford, Elkins, W. Va.

1932A—Kemper Jennings, Mainland High School, Daytona
Beach, Fla.

1932 L—Martin P. Burks, III, Roanoke, Va.

1931A—Ben M. Ayars, 308 S. Gregg St., Columbia, S. C.

1931L—Walter Hoffman, National Bank of Commerce Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

1930A—Lawrence Y. Foote, Ross Bldg., Hattiesburg, Miss.

1930L—Benjamin L. Rawlins, Jr., 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago.

1929A—Allen Morgan, Jr., First National Bank, Memphis,
Tennessee.

1929L—Ralph M. McLane, American National Bank Bldg.,
Pensacola, Fla.

1928A—George F. Atwood, 118 Clay Ave., Ferguson, Mo.

1928L—T. B. Bryant, Jr., Orangeburg, 5S. C.

1927A—Kenneth A. Durham, care of
Mills, Inc., Chattanooga, Tenn.

1927 L—C. Wells Little, 120 W. Washington St., Hagerstown,
Maryland.

1926A—Paul M. Schuchart, 2248 N. Third St., Harrisburg, Pa.

1926L—Robert O. Bentley, Peoples Trust Bldg., Hackensack,
New Jersey.

1925A—W. Edward Rietze, 977 Logan St., Louisville, Ky.

1925L—George T. Clark, Ingraham Bldg., Miami, Fla.

1924A—Frank C. Switzer, Harrisonburg Mutual Telephone
Co., Harrisonburg, Va.

1924L—Randolph G. Whittle, 6 Kirk Ave., Roanoke, Va.

1923A—D. Raymond Snively, care of Hagerstown Leather
Co., Hagerstown, Md.

1923L—George Holbrook, Century Indemnity Co. of Hart-
ford, Hartford, Conn.

Davenport Hosiery

1922A—

1922L—Edmund D. Campbell, Southern Building, Washing-
ton, D. C.

1921A—John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building, St. Louis, Mo.

1921L—John Bell, care of Knight, Thompson and Turner,
Tampa, Fla.

1920A—Randolph M. Cabell, Covington, Va.

1920L—L. Berkeley Cox, care of Aetna Life Insurance Co.,
Hartford, Conn.

1919A—Dr. T. Dewey Davis, Professional Bldg., Richmond,
Virginia.

1919 _L—Howard P. Arnest, 1425 Yeon Bldg., Portland, Ore.

1918A—A. S. Marks, Lake Charles, La.

1918L—

1917 A—Marion Sanders, 585 Union St., Wytheville, Va.

1917 L—Lafayette B. Chafin, Office of the Prosecuting Attor-
ney, Williamson, W. Va.

1916A—Burton S. Sanford, Ripley, Tenn.

1916L—Sam P. Kohen, 1723 Republic
Texas.

1915A—Paul C. Thomas, 1109 Highland Ave., Bluefield, West
Virginia.

1915L—Arthur M. Bridsall, 704 Tenth St., Belmar, N. J.

1914A—Roger J. Bear, care of The Kroger Grocery & Baking
Co., Executive Offices, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1914L—Samuel H. Williams, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.

1913A—Edward S. Delaplaine, Frederick, Md.

1913L—Howard L. Robinson, Clarksburg, W. Va.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Va.

1912L—Byron L. Ballard, 1400 Olds Tower Bldg., Lansing,
Michigan.

1911A—F. P. Guthrie, 4301 Argyle Terrace, Washington, D.C.

1911L—Omer T. Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.

1910A—Rayford W. Alley, 30 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

1910L—Orange W. Richardson, 803 Columbia Bldg., Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

1909A—Dr. Devall L. Gwathmey, \Vytheville, Va.

1909 _L—Judge E. C. Caffrey, Circuit Court of New Jersey,
Hackensack, N. J.

1908A—John M. Bierer, Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Co.,
Cambridge, Mass.

1908 L—E. L. Beale, Attorney-at-Law, Franklin, Va.

1907 —W. R. J. Dunn, care of Dunn Construction Co., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

sank Bldg., Dallas,

1906 —Dr. F. R. Crawford, Farmville, Va.

1905 —Walter G. Riddick, 1115 Boyle Bldg., Little Rock, Ark.

1904 —E. W. Poindexter, Shenandoah Life Bldg., Roanoke,
Virginia.

1903 —

1902 —Dr. W. T. Ellis, Jr., 303 Hardt Bldg., Broad and Co-
lumbia Avenues, Philadelphia, Pa.

1901 —Clarence C. Burns, Lebanon, Va.

1900 —J. R. Tucker, State Planters Bank Bldg., Richmond,

Virginia.
—Rev. Jas. O. McCleeve, D. D., 122 Kighth Ave., St.
Petersburg, Fla.

1899

1897 —

1896 —H. H. Larimore, 2008 Missouri Pacific Building, St.
Louis, Mo.

1895 —

1894 —

1893 —B. A. Judd, 25 Broad St., New York, N. Y.

1892 —John J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Bldg., Louisville,
Kentucky.

1891 —

1890 —

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Phillip P. Page, 12 East Grand Avenue.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

George McClure, Republic Nat’] Bank Bldg.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Reed Graves, 300 Warwick Lane.
Louisville, Kentucky

John J. Davis, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D. 2.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California

Los Angeles
St. Louis, Missouri :

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.

Dozier DeVane, Federal Power Commission.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIII FEBRUARY 1938 No. 3
MRI 5. teosn ott Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor.......... RicHArpD P. CarTEr, 1929

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PUAN oc i: casei ccson CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President.......00...0...c0006. Kr Wituiams, 1915
Secretary... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
F PU ia. atthe vies Stuart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Joun Bett TowlI_t, 1929
Jor T. Lyxes, 1909
H. H. Lartmore, 1896
NorMAN FitrzHucu, 1898

 

Contents for February 1938

PAG
Important Lee Papers (The President’s Page)..................... 3
tek hate Teun mae SeMed. ... <i sesden tein. Si <- fAsidigee op oercigssiaee-.-0-- +
A ‘Tribute to An Engineer’s Career................0..::ccseccsssessseeseeees 5
Washington and Lee “Takes Over” In Richmond.................... 7
Thirty-two Years of Fancy Dress.......0.....0.:.cssisesssecsseeeseeeee seca 9
"Piseen “Pili PEIMOOOR TNO iy cise dis acca vais ste ow se she 00e 11
Pa Mae WE CE RUN 3s Washes cnishs teased ncn t0 Sahin +1 0p 12
Chats With Your Friends and Mine............ Pe ice ie se Coat 15

la RS cr a a Bees 19

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Important Lee Papers Given the University

(The President's Page)

agua to four benefactions, three from alumni and
one from a friend, the University has come into pos-
session of four of the six groups of Lee letters which con-
stituted the Alfred C. Meyer collection, sold in New York
City on January 13.
ae Se

The offering of this material attracted considerable at-
tention in newspapers. Several alumni and at least one
parent of a present student wrote me
urging that we acquire the manuscripts.
It was suggested to me, though I am not
prepared to make a definite statement,
that this may be the last large collection
of Lee material that will come on the
market.

* * *
Added to the numerous letters and

various documents bearing General
Lee’s signature which are now in our
possession, these letters give us a truly
notable representation of General Lee’s
papers. I presume that from this time forward, though I
can not draw comparisons because of the lack of knowl-
edge, this University will be one of the major sources of
information about General Lee.

*x* * *

The feeling on the campus is that we have taken a step
of considerable significance. Washington and Lee may
never become one of the great depositories of all forms of
miscellaneous historical documents ; but it should certainly
hold as much as possible of source material about its own
history, about the great personalities who have been con-
nected with it, and about the social stratum from which the

University sprang.

 

One of the foremost American historians was on our
campus not long ago and expressed enthusiasm for a lit-
tle chest of letters of William Fleming, a man of impor-
tance in the early settlement of Kentucky. This is but one
example of other types of source material which we claim.

* * *

Fixed in our dreams is the conception of a new library
building, where we hdpe to have a room in which our
original documents will be kept safely,
properly catalogued, and made available
for the uses of scholarship. In the
meantime these manuscripts are kept in
spacious vaults where there can be no
question of their safety. It is our ear-
nest hope that this general collection
will be increased as rapidly as possible.
Many institutions are setting aside large
sums for the acquisition of this kind of
material. We can never spend a great
for such a

deal of money

~

but we hope earnestly for the gen-

purpose,

erosity of our friends in this respect.

*K K K

May I repeat what I said in an earlier article, that if
any alumnus has any kind of historical material which he
wishes to place where it will be appreciated, and where it
will be safeguarded, and where it will ultimately be made
available to those who have a right to its use, he may well
consider his own Alma Mater as the best depository. In
this way he will guarantee the preservation of what he
himself knows to be precious, and he will be enriching the
value of Washington and Lee as a center of authentic in-
formation for its own students and for American scholar-

ship in general.

Vueadtse A. ee

[3]

class of 1894, died Christmas Day in Cleveland.

EA eter oe i

pee

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Late Newton D. Baker

ASHINGTON AND LEE lost one of its most distin- Famous for the remarkably efficient manner in which
guished alumni when Newton Diehl Baker, one of _ he raised an army of millions when Secretary of War
America’s outstanding statesmen and member of the law under Woodrow Wilson, he was noted, however, as a

ies

 

peace lover and spent a great part of his life in the promo-
tion of international welfare.

Mr. Baker came to Wash-
ington and Lee in 1892 after
graduating from Johns Hop-
kins, and received his LL. B.
degree in 1894. His soft-
spoken, quiet manner won
him little recognition as a
leader on the Washington and
Lee campus, but after grad-
uating he demonstrated his
leadership ability when re-
sponsibility came his way, and
rose rapidly to a position of
national prominence.

Mr. Baker, who was ap-
pointed trustee of Washing-
ton and Lee in 1928, retained
his connection with the school
until the very last, having
written to Lexington six days
before his death. Whether he
was planning to attend the
trustees’ meeting January 19
was not known, but in all
probability he was. He at-
tended the meeting at Lexing-
ton last June.

“He was one of the most
devoted trustees we had,” Dr.
Francis P. Gaines, president
of the University, said re-
cently. “He loved the school
a great deal and always had
its welfare at heart. He cor-
responded with it frequently.”

Mr. Baker was a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta so-
cial fraternity while at Wash-
ington and Lee, and proved
his scholastic abilities by win-
ning a Phi Beta Kappa key.

After graduating in 1894,
Newton D. Baker, LL. B. 1894 (Continued on page 18)

[4]

 

Ol _§

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Tribute to An Engineer's Career

Tur ALUMNI MaGAzZzINE ts privileged to print here an
excerpt from the minutes of the annual meeting of the
American Society of Civil Engineers in New York City,
January 19, 1938, in which high tribute is paid the late
Hunter McDonald of Nashville, Tennessee, a Washing-
ton and Lee alumnus. The transcript was obtained through
the courtesy of General J. A. Anderson, professor of civil
engineering at the Virginia Military Institute. It follows:

HE CHAIRMAN: The late Hunter McDonald, past-
"Tecan of the American Society of Civil Engineers,
civil engineer of Nashville, Tennessee. The statement on
the achievements of Mr. McDonald will be made by Dean
Fred J. Lewis, of Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.

Frep J. Lewis: Mr. Chairman, Gentlemen, and Mem-
bers of the American Society of Civil Engineers, an
adopted son of Tennessee has the privilege of presenting
to you today a memorial on the illustrious achievements of
another of its adopted sons—Hunter McDonald. That son
weighs his unworthiness of the assignment, but rejoices
in the opportunity of rendering a service in memory of
one of the greatest engineers the Volunteer State has
known. Moreover, it seems both fitting and proper that
arrival for this occasion should have been by way of the
Dixie line, the natural monument to the achievement of
Mr. McDonald.

Hunter McDonald came from no ordinary stock. His
great grandfather, Angus McDonald, named his home
near Winchester, Virginia, “Glengarry” after the seat of
his clan in Scotland. He had the distinction of having re-
ceived a land grant from Governor Dinwiddie for valiant
service against the Indians in 1754; and again in 1774 he
commanded an expedition against the Wappatomica In-
dians crossing the Ohio River 120 miles below Pittsburgh,
this being the advance guard for Lord Dunsmore’s army.
Hunter’s grandfather, also bearing the name of Angus,
was a major in the War of 1812, while his father was
graduated from West Point Military Academy in 1817,
and served until 1819. Later he was brigadier general of
the Virginia militia from 1840 to 1861, and together with
five of his sons, served in the Confederate Army.

On June 12, 1860, at Winchester, Virginia, Hunter
McDonald was born, the youngest son of a family of
eighteen—nine by the first marriage, and nine by the sec-
ond wife—Hunter’s mother. Colonel McDonald was 61
when the child was born. A year later he entered the Con-
federate service and died before the war was over. It is
doubtful if Hunter ever knew his own father.

Winchester, which lay in the path of the opposing
armies, became too dangerous a location for the family
and the McDonalds were refugeed from their ancestral
home to a safer haven within the Confederate lines. They
settled in Lexington, Virginia, where the family resided
for a decade. Later, they again moved, this time taking up
their abode in Louisville, Kentucky.

Mr. McDonald gained his early education at the
Rugby school in Louisville, from which he was grad-
uated. Entering Washington and Lee University in the
fall of 1878 with the intention of becoming an engineer,
Mr. McDonald was due for one of his early disappoint-
ments. Never robust in health, the demand proved too
great for him to withstand, and he was denied the final
completion of a formal education, instead, he was forced
to seek other channels for his endeavors where he might
recoup in body and in strength.

Through the aid of one of his brothers he obtained a
position in charge of a small party engaged in making a
track survey of the Louisville, Nashville and Great South-
ern Railroad. Within a month his health was restored and
he greatly enjoyed the measurement of the 950 miles of
line from Louisville, Kentucky, to Montgomery, Alabama.
Many are the anecdotes and stories connected with this
first engineering encounter that Hunter McDonald liked
so well to relate. He and his crew worked so well that the
project was completed by the first of December, 1879.

The reputation gained in this work was to assist him
in his next appointment, the first and only assistant to
Colonel R. C. Morris, at that time chief engineer of the
Nashville, Chatanooga and St. Louis Railroad. Thus be-
gan a long and memorable career that was to span the re-
mainder of his active engineering work.

During the early period of his connection with the
‘Dixie Line’ Mr. McDonald was in charge of rebuilding
Running Water Viaduct in 1884, at that time the highest
railroad viaduct ; engineer in charge of construction of the
Huntsville branch and changing the gauge of the Duck
River Branch to Columbia in 1887-1888. On completion
of the work he was appointed division superintendent of
the Huntsville Division, and at the same time had charge
of surveys and construction of a fifty-mile extension from
Huntsville, Alabama, to Gadsden, Alabama, and of the
Sequarchie Valley Branch to Pikeville, Tennessee. In
1891 he was appointed resident engineer of the Western
and Atlanta Railroad, extending from Atlanta to Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee, which had just been leased from the
state of Georgia. This road had to be entirely recon-

[5]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

structed as to track and bridges, and was done under Mr.
McDonald’s direction.

Upon the death of Colonel Morris in 1891, Hunter
McDonald was made chief engineer of the Nashville,
Chattanooga and St. Louis Railroad as his successor. For
41 years he continued in this position, retiring in 1932.

Mr. McDonald had a personal and historical knowl-
edge of the roadway and every bridge and structure on
the system, for at one time or another during his career he
had to rebuild or remodel practically every item.

Truly it may be said that this road is Mr. McDonald’s
triumphant achievement for he has practically rebuilt it
from one end to the other during his connection with it.

While Mr. McDonald’s career is linked so intimately
with the development of the Dixie Line he also had other
interesting experiences, and music valuable contributions
to his community and his profession.

From 1906 onward he had charge of the construction
of Cummings Station in Nashville, Tennessee, for the
Wholesale Merchant and Warehouse Company, and con-
tinued as general manager of the company thereafter.
During the regime of governmental operation of the rail-
roads, at the time of the world conflict, he also acted as
chief engineer of the Tennessee Central and the Birming-
ham and Northwestern Railroads; and it is also of inter-
est to know that he was tendered, during the administra-
tion of Woodrow Wilson, the position of chief engineer
of the Alaskan Railway. However, when a later stipula-
tion was added that he should share this responsibility
with two other appointees, he rejected the offer. Mr. Mc-
Donald was not averse nor afraid to assume this responsi-
bility, but wanted nothing of divided authority.

Mr. McDonald’s active career was mainly engrossed in
the field of railway engineering, but he was not too busy
to share his knowledge and experience, as well as his good
judgment and personal charm, with his fellowman. In-
deed, he believed in association with them, and each or-
ganization in which he enlisted, recognized his work in
honoring him with its offices and assignments.

Mr. McDonald became a Junior Member of the Amer-
ican Society of Civil Engineers in 1883 and a Member in
1888. He served on its board of direction from 1903-1905 ;
was elected vice-president in 1910, and president in 1914.

He was a charter member—No. 11—of the American
Railway Engineering Association, and a member of its
first board of directors. He served two terms as second
vice-president ; one as first vice-president, and in 1903 was
elected president of that organization, in which capacity
he served for two years. He was a member of the Rail and
many other important committees, and served faithfully
and well, in recognition of which he was elected to hon-
orary membership in July, 1931.

Mr. McDonald was one of a small group of engineers
who successfully launched the Engineering Association of

the South in 1889, and became one of its first presidents.
At the time of the dissolution of this association in 1916,
Mr. McDonald was very active in the formation of the
Engineering Association of Nashville, an active, cosmo-
politan organization of engineers in the city of Nashville,
and its adjacent area. As evidence of his interest and capa-
bility, he was elected its first president, gave constantly
of his services and advice, and on June 10, 1935, became
the only honorary member that organization has ever had.

In his contribution through the Engineering Associa-
tion of Nashville, Mr. McDonald was vice-chairman of
the committee which prepared the prospectus advocating
the establishment of the nitrate plant, power and naviga-
tion dams at Muscle Shoals and rendered valuable service
to the city of Nashville in connection with its water sup-
ply, the reproduction of the Parthenon, city planning and
other municipal problems of an engineering nature.

Jointly, with the late Robert H. McNeilly, Member of
the American Society of Civil Engineers, Mr. McDonald
was instrumental in the establishment of the Robert H.
McNeilly Student Chapter of the American Society of
Civil Engineers at Vanderbilt University in 1925. It was
always an evening of mutual satisfaction and pleasure
when Mr. McDonald would visit that chapter. Indeed it
seemed that Mr. McDonald was intensely interested in the
problem of educating young men in the technical field,
perhaps this was because such an education had been de-
nied him in his early manhood.

Mr. McDonald was an inveterate reader and possessed
a broad knowledge of literature and art. Indeed it may be
said Mr. McDonald was a cultured Southern gentleman
in all that name implies, a friend of man and a contributor
to engineering knowledge.

To have known Mr. McDonald was to have possessed
a prize of great worth—kindly, faithful, frank and fear-
less in leadership, impeccable in character, and with a de-
lightful personality. One could rightly believe that Edgar
Guest had Mr. McDonald in mind when he penned the
following closing stanza of his verse “A Real Man”:

“Men are of two kinds, and he
Was of the kind I'd like to be.
No door at which he ever knocked
Against his manly form was locked.
If ever man on earth was free
And independent, it was he.
No broken pledge lost him respect,
He met all men with head erect,
And when he passed I think there went
A soul to yonder firmament
So white, so splendid and so fine
It came almost to God’s design.”

Mr. Chairman, in honoring Hunter McDonald today
we honor ourselves.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. and L. “Takes Over” In Richmond

# you wander around Capitol Hill in Richmond, capital
| of Virginia, for long you'll meet someone you knew at
Washington and Lee, or someone who knows someone at
Washington and Lee, or someone who attended school at
Washington and Lee.
You just won't be able
to keep from coming in
contact with Washing-
ton and Lee men there-
abouts.

Why ? Because from
the Governor on down
through the list there
are Washington and Lee
men, holding down im-
portant assignments in
directing the affairs of
the Old Dominion.

If, in fact, they had
set the inauguration on
January 19 of Virginia's
new governor, James H.
the
Washington and Lee

Price, to music,
Swing would of neces-
sity have been the theme
song of the ceremonies.
Because :

The new governor is
a Washington and Lee
alumnus—class of 1909.
The retiring governor,
George C. Peery, mem-
Board of
alum-

ber of the
Trustees, is an
nus—class of 1897. The
guest of honor for the
day, Homer A. Holt—
A. B. 1918 and LL. B.
1923—is governor of West Virginia. And the attorney
general of Virginia, who swore in the new governor, is
Abram P. Staples—LL. B. 1908.

To make the whole inauguration “even more Wash-
ington and Lee,” it was the anniversary of the birth of
General Robert E. Lee, president of Washington College
after the War Between the States until his death, and, as
all good alumni know, it accordingly was Founder's Day
at Washington and Lee.

Tala aale at

 

Governor James H. Price

As if to further the Washington and Lee tradition in
and around the capital of the Old Dominion, five new
members of the House of Delegates are Washington and
Lee alumni. They are, briefly, as follows :

Cralle Fauntleroy
Blackwell of Kenbridge,
recently elected to fill
the Lunenburg County
seat in the House. He
was graduated in law
from Washington and
1918 and is a
member of Sigma Phi

Lee in

Epsilon fraternity.

Henry Prince Bur-
nett of Galax, former
commonwealth’s attor-
ney of Grayson County.
He was graduated from
Washington and Lee in
1907, and also attended
Roanoke College and V.
P. I. He is the only Re-
publican among the 28
new Delegates.

Earl A.

of Roanoke, who was at

Fitzpatrick

Washington and Lee in
1925-1929. Fitzpatrick,
a Kappa Sigma, cap-
tained the Generals on
the football field in 1928.

James Bland Martin
of Gloucester, repre-
senting Gloucester and
Matthews Counties. He
was graduated
Washington and Lee in
1931.

Francis Pickens Miller, who is serving his first term
as representative from Fairfax. Miller, executive secre-
tary of the National Foreign Policy Committee, was grad-
uated from Washington and Lee in 1914 and went subse-
quently to Oxford.

It’s a high tribute, as someone said not long ago, to the
character and ability of Washington and Lee alumni that
they should hold so many important positions in the po-
litical life of the Old Dominion.

from

[7]

iversity

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee Un

 

a
gt

*

*-
»*

;

y

 

Ry oa,
~
-_
, -

‘ PPh pe ee

Miss Margaret Woods and W. M. Rogers, Jr., F ancy Dress Leaders

[8 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Thirty-Two Years of Fancy Dress

By PAYNE HALL

tT was cold and there was a touch of snow in the air, but
light bespeaking warmth shone through the high win-
dows behind the tall white columns, casting blurred
shadows on the already snow-covered ground. Music,
sometimes soft and sauntering as if played for maids and
gentlemen of olden times, filtered from within the long,
porticoed building.

A streamlined automobile drew up to the entrance and
a duke and his duchess alighted and hurried in. Another
car followed, and a prince helped his princess up the broad
steps. Came other automobiles, and other dignitaries—
governors, and their ladies; generals and admirals; even
kings and queens.

A conglomerate group, they glittered in the pageant-
like brilliance of their costumes as they doffed overcoats
and wraps once they had found the warmth behind the tall
lighted windows. Then, gay and carefree, they strolled or
marched onto the ballroom floor, and danced to modern
music.

It was Fancy Dress time at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. It might have been any Washington and Lee
Fancy Dress, at least any of the Fancy Dress balls held in
recent years when costumes have become more and more
elaborate.

The characters: all make-believe for a night. The
scene: Washington and Lee’s Doremus Gymnasium,
transformed for the night into a royal garden of old Italy ;
or a ballroom of the Russia of Czarist days; or the court
pomp of Elizabethan times.

Or, as it was on January 28, the garden of an old co-
lonial home at Charleston, South Carolina, in the happy
days preceding the War Between the States.

“T want something a little more modern, a little more
American, this year, and I think the students will like it,”
William M. Rogers, Jr., of Petersburg, Virginia, presi-
dent of the Fancy Dress Ball of 1938, said before the ball.
“We are not exactly tired of the glitter of European
themes of past days. We just think it might be appropriate
now to have a Southern theme for the ball.”

And so, on the night of January 28, 1938, Rogers be-
came Governor Pickens of South Carolina, host at a re-
ception.

As governor and host, he led the figure, highlight of
the ball, with Miss Margaret Woods of Bronxville, New
York. Miss Woods is a sophomore at Sweet Briar College.

The annual Washington and Lee Fancy Dress Ball,
now one of the best known collegiate social affairs in the

nation, had its inception back in 1907 when Miss Annie
Jo White, then the University librarian, gave a private
costume party for a group of students and their girls. But
the private costume party became an idea, and the idea
“caught on” with “Miss Annie” continuing for a number
of years as director of the ball.

“The boys took the party right out of my hands and
have been carrying out the fancy dress idea ever since I
started it,” ‘“Miss Annie,” as she has been known affec-
tionately on the campus, said not long ago.

“But I didn’t mind,” she added, “because I still get as
much fun out of it.”

And each year “Miss Annie” has attended the Fancy
Dress Ball, sitting as an honored guest and far from for-
gotten as the “eternal queen of Fancy Dress” at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Starting with the idea given them by the then librarian,
Washington and Lee students of succeeding generations
have placed the ball in an enviable position in the spotlight
of social prominence, concentrating at the same time on
authenticity in reproduction of famous periods and events
in history. |

This effort for conscientious reproduction was concen-
trated in this year’s ball on the following historical note,
“Charleston on the Eve of Secession,” prepared by Pro-
fessor Ollinger Crenshaw of the Washington and Lee de-
partment of History:

“Since the close of the seventeenth century the little
city of Charleston, South Carolina, had been a mecca in
the rural civilization of the Old South, preeminent for its
social and intellectual life, commerce, cosmopolitanism,
and authentic urbanity. While by 1860 new economic
forces had dimmed somewhat the material prosperity of
Carolina civilization, Charleston retained much of its
prestige till the fall of the Confederacy. Although there is
some difference of opinion among Critics as to the merits
of ante-bellum Southern civilization, Charleston repre-
sented the best of that civilization. It was the metropolis
which attracted gifted politicians—in the production of
which the old South excelled—including at this time Rob-
ert Barnwell Rhett, secessionist par excellence, Governor
Francis W. Pickens, ex-Governor W. H. Gist, Senator
James H. Hammond, able apologist of “the peculiar in-
stitution” of slavery, his colleague, Senator James Chest-
nut, Jr., and the eminent lawyer James L,. Petigru, almost
the only unionist in the state.

“Others prominent in various fields of activity and as-

[9 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

sociated with the city in the years before the war for
Southern independence included Louis Leconte and the
Ravenels, scientists, poets like Paul Hayne and Henry
Timrod, Basil L. Gildersleeve, classical scholar, and the
foremost Southern novelist of the age, William Gilmore
Simms, at last accepted by Charleston society.

“While momentous events took place, and South Caro-
lina prepared secession, the best people of Charleston en-
joyed life in their magnificent homes, attended concerts
and balls of the famous St. Cecelia Society, and church
at old St. Michael’s, whose spire remains a landmark to
this day. Supremely confident of the future and remark-
ably unanimous politically, these Carolinians were seem-
ingly oblivious to the dark shadow of the future: they
saw not the grave and well-nigh insuperable problems of
the new Southern Confederacy, which through war led to
the collapse of King Cotton civilization, and finally to bit-
ter days of reconstruction.”

The Fancy Dress Ball of 1938 was projected against
this picturesque and romantic backdrop of Southern his-
tory.

The various persons who were prominent in Charles-
ton society of the middle nineteenth century—including
politicians, writers, and others—were portrayed by the
students and their girls.

Time was, it was recalled by those who have been to
Fancy Dress Balls of past days, when a white shirt, open
at the throat, a pair of black tuxedo trousers, and a red

scarp tied about the waist may have constituted sufficient
costume to represent any period of history. But things
have changed in the past decade. All of the costumes are
authentic now, created and fitted by professional cos-
tumiers. Orders are placed weeks in advance for costumes
for both men and women.

Members of the Washington and Lee faculty and dis-
tinguished guests usually are the only ones on the dance
floor without costume, and it’s white ties for them.

The date for Fancy Dress varies only slightly each
year; it always comes just after examinations that mark
the end of the first semester at the University. The Ball
is the highlight now of the winter dance set, which opened
this year on Friday evening, January 27, with the annual
Junior Prom formal—after which decorators tore down
the decorations for the Prom and effected a complete
transformation in the interior of Doremus Gymnasium’s
appearance. The O. D. K. formal was held Saturday eve-
ning, January 29.—Reprinted with permission from the
Richmond, Va., Times-Dispatch Sunday Magazine.

 

 

Witu1aM L,. Witson, 1935, has formed a partnership
for the practice of law, with his brother, George S. Wil-
son, Jr., in Owensboro, Kentucky.

 

Mr. AND Mrs. H. Epwarp Rievrzer, 1925, are the par-
ents of a son, H. Edward Rietze, Jr., born February 9,
Louisville, Kentucky.

 

 

 

 

ON re ONG

PRE CORI es er nmneas

 

 

ite af if
F Av WE

wie

 

Doremus Gymnasium Decorated for the Thirty-second Fancy Dress Ball

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Two New Trustees Elected

Lo WASHINGTON AND L£E Board of Trustees, meet-
ing at the University on Founder’s Day, January 19,
elected two new members to fill vacancies on the Board.

The new trustees are Oscar C. Huffman of New York
City, president of the Continental Can Company, and
Harry St. George Tucker
Carmichael of Kyrock, Ken-
tucky, president of the Ken-
tucky Rock Asphalt Com-
pany. Both were students at
the University in the late
nineties.

Mr. Carmichael is a neph-
ew of the late Congressman
Harry St. George Tucker of
Virginia, to whom Mr. Huff-
man was private secretary
while a student at Washing-
ington and Lee in 1895-1896.
Both of the new trustees are
native Virginians; Mr. Huff-
man was born in Augusta
County and Mr. Carmichael
in Lexington.

Commenting upon the
election of the new members
of the Board, Dr. Francis P.
Gaines said: “In distinction
of achievement, in the force
of personality and character,
and in unselfish devotion to
their Alma Mater, these gen-
tlemen enter worthily into
the high traditions of the
Washington and Lee trus-
tees.”

Both new Board members are well known in their re-
spective business fields. Mr. Huffman, moving from Au-
gusta to Buchanan County, organized and headed the Vir-
ginia Can Company, and later organized the United States
Can Company. He has been president of Continental Can
since 1930. Mr. Carmichael, in addition to his business
affiliations in Kentucky, is a member of the Kentucky
Academy of Science and a fellow of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London.

Members of the Board who attended the Founder’s
Day meeting were: George Walker St. Clair of Tazewell,
Virginia, rector; Harrington Waddell of Lexington;

 

Oscar C. Huffman

Charles J. McDermott of New York City; James R.
Caskie of Lynchburg, Virginia; Dr. George Bolling Lee
of New York City; The Rev. Walter Lapsley Carson of
Richmond, Va. ; William McChesney Martin of St. Louis;
Herbert Fitzpatrick.of Huntington, West Virginia; Dr. J.
Morrison Hutcheson of Rich-
mond, Virginia; Dr. Gaines
and Mr. Penick, the Univer-
sity’s treasurer.

The Founder’s Day exer-
cises, held in Doremus Gym-
nasium, were featured by
presentation to the Univer-
sity of portraits of two dis-
tinguished alumni—the late
G. Watson James of Rich-
mond, Virginia, and the late
Judge C. C. Garrett of Texas.

The Founder’s Day
speaker, Sir Herbert B.
Ames, formerly financial di-
rector of the League of Na-
tions, told the assembly he
did not believe another war
in Europe was imminent, but
said he thought the arma-
ments race would continue
until the nations had spent
all they could on armaments.
The former League official
centered much of his address
on the Germany under Adolf
Hitler, outlining the difficul-
ties facing the German peo-
ple and the current demands
being made by Germany as
an aftermath of the World War.

(Editor’s note: THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE regrets that
no picture of Mr. Carmichael was available for this issue,
but promises that his likeness will be reproduced in a sub-
sequent issue. )

 

G. E. (Ted) Harris, 1923, who has been living in New
York City, has accepted an appointment as manager of
the East Carolina Broadcasting Company at Greenville,
North Carolina, his home town. He plans, he said in a
letter to the Alumni Office, to collect material for a novel
centering about the tobacco industry in Greenville.

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Review of Winter Sports

By Witu1AM B. Bacsey, Class of 1938

O ONE has doubted that Washington and Lee has one
N of the best basketball teams in the South since the
Generals have reached the finals in the Southern Confer-
ence tourney at Raleigh for the past four years, but now
they have established themselves as one

the battle with the Tar Heels, Bill was not only in uniform
but scored five points for his team and played a very good
floor game. Despite the efforts of Borries and Spessard,
who scored eighteen points, the North Carolina team de-
feated the Generals by thirty-four to

 

of the top-flight teams of the nation.
Though losing to L. I. U. in Madison
Square Garden by the score of thirty-
five to thirty-two, the Generals showed
Manhattan scribes enough to make
them think of asking Washington and
Lee to the proposed nation-wide inter-
collegiate invitation tournament to be
held in the Garden in March.

Bob Spessard, Washington and
Lee’s six foot, seven inch center, defi-
nitely stamped himself as in the class of
the best in the nation when he led all
scoring in the game with Long Island
with a total of twelve points. Spessard
now has almost 1,000 points to his
credit since he began his basketball ca-
reer at Washington and Lee.

Cy Young has no alibis for the de-
cision his team dropped to the northern
school, but there is no doubt that the
team was seriously crippled in the open-
ing minute of play when Bill Borries’
knee, injured in football, gave way and
the big red-head had to be taken out of
the game. Borries has shown a fighting
spirit which should place him among
basketball greats at Washington and
Lee, despite the fact that he has been
able to play little ball this season. When
his knee went out of place in the second
game of the year, it looked like Bill was
through with athletics. Then Bill joined
the swimming team, and _ splashed
around the pool in right good form, too.
Then bad luck struck at the basketball team again and Kit
Carson, co-captain with Bob Spessard of the Washington
and Lee five, sprained his ankle just before one of the
season's toughest games with the Generals’ old rivals,
North Carolina. Immediately Borries offered his services
to the basketball team again, and to the surprise and de-
light of the crowd which packed Doremus Gymnasium for

 

Bob Spessard

thirty-one.

Earl “Kit’’ Carson, co-captain of the
team, and like Spessard an all-South-
ern player, has been inspiring in his
leadership this season. Carson, though
not the high-scorer that Spessard is,
plays one of the most beautiful floor
games in this section.

Two new-comers to the outfit this
season have definitely won varsity po-
sitions. They are: Leo Reinartz, a for-
ward, and Ronnie Thompson, a guard,
both sophomores. Thompson plays a
fine defensive game, and both are ex-
cellent shots from out in mid-court.
Thompson is from Rockville Centre,
New York, and looks and plays like his
fellow townsman, Joe Pette, who was
captain of the Washington and Lee
team two years ago. Thompson's ag-
gressive play won the praise of New
York writers as did the uncanny set-
shots of Spessard.

So far this season the Generals have
dropped only four games. Elon took
the measure of the Generals in the first
game after Christmas holidays by a
score of twenty-nine to twenty-five.
Their other defeats at the hands of
North Carolina and Long Island Uni-
versity, by three-point margins, and
Maryland, who had been defeated ear-
lier in the year, by four points.

Eight games remain on the schedule
before the Southern Conference tour-
nament at Raleigh in March. Richmond will play at Lex-
ington on February 8; then the Generals will travel over
to Roanoke to play the fast-stepping Roanoke Maroons,
an outfit which can be classed with the best teams in the
country this season. An over-capacity crowd is expected
for this game which will see Bob Spessard placed on the
spot as he performs before a home-town crowd.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

After Roanoke College, the Generals will go to Lynch-
burg, where they will play Duke’s Blue Devils in the
Lynchburg Armory. The Duke game is scheduled for
February 14, and on February 17, Washington and Lee
travels down into Tarheelia, where they will meet North
Carolina’s White Phantoms in a return engagement at
Chapel Hill. On February 19 they play V. P. I. at Blacks-
burg; on February 21, William and Mary at Williams-
burg; and on February 22, Richmond at Richmond. Then
on February 26, Virginia will appear in Doremus Gym-
nasium for a double-header with both the varsity and
freshman teams in action. In an earlier game at Char-
lottesville the Generals defeated the Cavaliers forty to
twenty and played from the opening minutes without Kit
Carson, who sprained his ankle immediately after the
game began.

Washington and Lee basketball fans may begin to
worry as the season draws to a close and Bob Spessard,
Kit Carson, Frank Frazier, and other dependables on the
Big Blue are playing their last games for Washington and
Lee. But don’t get downhearted, for the freshman squad
is one of the best in years. Bill Ellis, freshman coach, not
only has one good team but he has three or four.

Dick Pinck, flashy quarterback on the Brigadier foot-
ball squad, performs even greater feats on the basketball
court. In only one game this season has Pinck failed to
score twenty points or more. Against Danville High in
the opening game of
the year, he scored
fourteen points, and
since that time he has
been high scorer in
each game. In five
games he has a total
of ninety-nine points
to his credit.

Howard Dobbins,
an outstanding per-
former at end on the
freshman _ football
squad, has proved a
fine court prospect to
take Bob Spessard’s
place next season.
Dobbins is an excel-
: lent ball-handler and
| ? —_ uses his height to ad-

| vantage in follow-up

a

 

shots. Dobbins is
from Louisville Male
High, while Pinck is
from Paterson, New
Jersey, and prepped
at Hun School.

 

Kit Carson

 

Another capable
performer on the fin-
est frosh basketball
squad in this section
is Ed Cuttino of-
Sumter, South Caro-
lina. As the running-
mate of Pinck at for-
ward, Cuttino has
scored thirty-six
points so far this sea-
son.

Other outstand-
ing members of this
frosh outfit, which
scored two hundred
and thirty-five points
in five games to their
opponents’ one hun-
dred and sixteen, are
Bob Gary of Beau-
mont, Texas, a for-
ward; Bob Blanding,
Roanoke, Virginia,
guard ; George Gass-
man, Freeport, Illi-
nois, forward; Bob
Stein, Louisville,
Kentucky, guard;
Jack Read, Cumber-
land, Maryland,
guard; Fred Farrar, Garden City, New York, forward;
Ed Trice, Glens Falls, New York, guard; and Kiah Ford,
Lynchburg, Virginia, a guard.

Remaining on the freshman schedule are games with
S. M. A. in Lexington on February 7; A. M. A. there on
February 10; Jefferson High in Roanoke, February 12;
Roanoke College freshmen here on February 16; V. P. I.
there, February 19; Roanoke there, February 22; Wil-
liam and Mary in Lexington, February 25; Virginia at
Lexington, a double-header with both freshman and var-
sity games with Virginia, on February 26; and Green-
brier here, February 28.

Not since the National Collegiate wrestling tourna-
ment was held in Doremus Gymnasium in 1936 has there
been the array of fine wrestling teams in Lexington that
will meet Coach Archie Mathis’ undefeated grapplers in
Doremus Gymnasium this season. The wrestlers, co-
holders with V. M. I. of the Southern Conference mat
crown, have disposed of two opponents in handy fashion
already. They defeated North Carolina State here on Jan-
uary 15 by a score of 22 to 8, and on February 4 took
North Carolina by a score of 23% to 4%, dropping only
the 118-pound bout and getting a draw in the 175 class.

 

Bill Borries

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Princeton’s Tigers will invade Lexington on February
12, and Mathis is determined that his squad will gain re-
venge for the only setback of last season at the hands of
Princeton in a meet at the latter’s school. Working out as
often as twice daily, the grapplers will be in fighting trim
by the time of the Princeton bout. After meeting the Tig-
ers, Washington and Lee engages Davidson at Davidson
on February 16, and then meets one of the nation’s lead-
ing teams, Kansas State in Doremus gymnasium on Feb-
ruary 22. V. P. I. will be the last opponent for the mat-
men before Washington and Lee goes to Blacksburg to
defend its crown in the conference mat tourney. The
Tech meet will be held in Doremus Gymnasium on Feb-
ruary 20.

Captain of the Washington and Lee mat squad this
season is Calvert Thomas of Baltimore, Maryland, who
wrestles in the 155-pound division. Calvert is a brother of
Rowland Thomas, captain of the Washington and Lee
wrestling team two years ago and for three years South-
ern Conference champion in the 118-pound class.

Other experienced wrestlers on whom Mathis will call
for service against Princeton and Kansas State are Bob
Kemp, 126 pounds, a junior and one of the most scientific
grapplers on the squad; Charles Eaton, a fine performer
at 135 pounds; and Charles Lykes, who has wrestled
heavyweight in previous matches this year, but who will
probably come down to 175 pounds for the two leading
matches of the season. In the 118-pound division Mathis
has Bob Summerall and Harry Crane, both juniors, but
with little varsity wrestling experience. Crane is an intra-
mural wrestler who gave up basketball a few weeks ago
for wrestling. He made his letter last season on the bas-
ketball squad which won the Southern Conference cham-
pionship. Chris Nielsen, a senior; Charles Bowles, a jun-
ior; and Jack Broome, Granville, Farrier, and Henry
Braun, sophomores, are other men who will see action
during the season.

The freshman wrestlers, with four victories to their
credit this season, are keeping clean the record of frosh
wrestling teams at Washington and Lee, which have not
dropped a meet in the last ten years. This remarkable rec-
ord is almost equalled by the varsity squad, which has
lost only five meets and has tied one in the last ten years.
In fact the prowess of Coach Archie Mathis’ wrestling
teams attracted a few days ago the cameramen of several
newsreel companies to the Washington and Lee campus
to take pictures of the matmen in action. In the past ten
years the varsity and frosh squads together have won 102
meets, lost five, and tied two. In 1933, 1934, and 1936, the
Generals won the Southern Conference mat crown; in
1935 they were second to V. M. I., and in 1937 they were
co-holders with V. M. I. of the championship.

Randolph Hanna, Birmingham, Alabama; Ed Wagg,
Lambertville, New Jersey ; Gordon von Kalinowski, Web-

ster Groves, Missouri; and John Preston, Paris, Ken-
tucky, are outstanding members of the frosh mat squad
this season.

With a 64-10 victory over Randolph-Macon to their
credit already this season, Coach Cy Twombly hopes that
his swimming team can successfully defend the Southern
Conference championship which they won for the third
straight year last March. With Co-Captain Gil Meem as
conference champion in the 220 and 440, and Co-Captain
Paul Lavietes as conference champion in the back stroke,
Twombly has a strong nucleus around which to center his
defense of the conference crown. Lettermen from last year
are Bob Watt of Chicago, Illinois, a diver ; George Vanta,
New York; Gary Hiers, New York; and Vance Funk,
Vincennes, Indiana, dashes; Tom ‘Tennant, Chicago,
breast stroke ; and Bob Finn, Niagara Falls, and Charles
Hart, New York, back stroke.

In Brent Farber of Baltimore, Maryland, and Bill
Ball of Jacksonville, Florida, Twombly has very capable
sophomore performers who will be worked into the places
of members of last year’s squad which was hit hard by
graduation.

Five meets remain on the varsity swim schedule : The
Generals will go to Blacksburg on February 8, where they
will meet V. P. I.; Duke is scheduled in Lexington on
February 12; William and Mary at Williamsburg on Feb-
ruary 19; and Virginia at Lexington on February 26.

It might be pointed out in closing that if any of you
would like to get a look at six Washington and Lee teams
in action on the same day, February 26 is the day to visit
the Washington and Lee campus. On that day the varsity
and freshman basketball and swimming teams will meet
the varsity and freshman court and tank teams of the
University of Virginia, and the varsity and freshman
wrestling teams will meet V. P. I.’s two mat teams in
Doremus Gymnasium. February 26 is a good time for the
“second Homecoming” of the year.

(Editor’s note: Since the above was written, the
Washington and Lee varsity basketball team has defeated
Richmond by a score of 33-30 and lost to Roanoke and
Duke in Roanoke and Lynchburg, respectively. The Gen-
erals were outclassed on an off night against the fast-
moving, nationally ranked Roanoke squad, 45-23 ; against
Duke they were still in a slump and lost 48-39 to a keen-
shooting Blue Devil squad. The freshman basketball team
has continued its winning streak by adding four victories
to its imposing string. They have whipped in succession,
5S. M.A., A. M. A., Jefferson High of Roanoke, and Roa-
noke College’s “Little Maroons.”” The Brigadiers turned
the “Little Maroons” a pale pink, and with Dick Pinck on
a scoring rampage set them back 72-16.)

(The Generals seemed assured of another trip to the
Southern Conference tournament as a result of their
61-40 victory over William and Mary, February 21.)

[14]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Younc, Alumni Secretary

most in the panorama of events that pass so rapidly
here on the campus at Washington and Lee. It seems only
yesterday when we were all excited over the incoming
freshman class and the many events that crowd the open-
ing of school in September. It wasn’t long before we were
planning for Homecoming and your return. Before we
realized it, football season was over and Christmas was
upon us, and now Fancy Dress and mid-winter exams

Baca I find myself wondering what would interest you

are a thing of the past.

This issue of the Magazine is a little
later this year. In the corresponding issue
of last year, which was published in
January, I had the opportunity to ac-
knowledge the many Christmas cards re-
ceived in the Alumni Office, commenting
on each one. Even if it is late, I would
like to acknowledge and say how much I
appreciated greetings from:

Pat Patterson, Thornton Allen, J.
Schwabe, Eddie Cameron, Leigh Wil-
liams, Marshall Black, Johnny Mead,
Herbert Dollahite, Jerry Framptom,
Herbert Jahncke, Bobby Field, Jim Muil-
bourne, Boots Edmondson, Harry Car-
michael, Pat Drought, Lewis Martin, Chuck Robinson,
Gil Hewson, Loyal Gassman, Toad Snively, Phil W ein-
sier, Clarence Sager, Julian Black.

Allein Beall, Fred Palmer, Pin Webster, Stan Hig-
gins, Walter Wilkins, Norman Iler, Ki Williams, Ed
Campbell, Earl Tilton, Ev Tucker, Beverly Smith, Dan
Gholson, Bob McDougle, Marvin Hummer, Joe Pette,
éd Caffrey, Lyne Smith, Amos Bolen, Pete Friedel, Mal-
colm Bruce, Stu Wurzburger, Allen Morgan, Walter Mc-
Donald, Don Hostetter, Rube Lewis, Fanning Hearon.

Since our last Chat I have been doing a good deal of
traveling. I attended a smoker in Washington, and as
usual, this annual event was very enjoyable. Classes from
‘“‘way-back” up to the present were represented. All pres-
ent were surprised and quite delighted to have with us Hi
Dow, 1907, from Roswell, New Mexico. Hi was in Wash-
ington on business and took advantage of this Washing-
ton and Lee gathering to meet with many of his old
friends. He is now practicing law in Roswell and is
Lieutenant-Governor of the state of New Mexico. I learn
that he is quite a power politically, and doubtless we will
hear further from him. Hi will be remembered as an out-

 

standing football player and one of the most popular men
on the campus of his day.

I talked at length with our good friend Rhea Whitley,
1927. Perhaps some of you do not know that Rhea has
made quite a name for himself as an Agent (G-man to
you) in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Until his re-
cent resignation he was in charge of the New York area
and assistant to Mr. Hoover. He liked the work, but, hav-
ing taken unto himself a bride, thought he had better get
out while the getting was good. He has opened law offices
in the Southern Building, Washington,
District of Columbia.

At this meeting Ed Campbell stepped
down as President of the local chapter,
and Dozier Devane took over the reins.
Ed has done an outstanding job for the
alumni in the National Capital, and I
know that Dozier will carry on. I have
leaned heavily on these two men for a
great many years and neither has ever
failed me. Charlie Suter, the new Vice-
President, has done yeoman service and
is one of our younger alumni who is
really active.

From Washington I went to Balti-
more for their annual fall meeting. As in the past, Johnny
Mead put on one of the best parties ever—a big turn-out
with plenty of pep. Johnny was succeeded as president of
this fine group by our good friend Jim Milbourne. His
second in command will be Phil Seraphine, another of the
younger alumni who is on the job.

I have been in New York on two occasions since No-
vember—one to attend an alumni meeting, the other to
take our basketball team to Madison Square Garden,
where we played Long Island University. After several
years of holding the alumni meetings at the St. Regis and
the Ambassador, the alumni of the metropolis decided to
go back down town, and met at the LaFayette. The next
time you are in New York if you want French food I can
recommend this hostlery most highly. I have had a good
many good meals in France, but for French cooking, I
prefer the LaFayette.

Emmett Poindexter, Ed Lee and Wop Walton suc-
ceeded in having a big turnout for this meeting. It had
been several years since I attended a New York meeting
and I found this one to be up to standard. We were for-
tunate in having present Mr. John M. Glenn, 1879. He

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

made a most interesting talk, telling us of Washington
and Lee in the late seventies. Some time ago Mr. Glenn
sent the Alumni Office two telegrams which he had re-
ceived when a student here, from W. A. Wimbish, who
was manager of the baseball team in the spring of 1878,
announcing a victory over Virginia. The wires are inter-
esting for many reasons—the ancient dates, the fact that
they are written in long-hand (being before the day of
typewriters). These wires have been framed and are
hanging on the wall in Dick Smith’s office in the Gym-
nasium. They read as follows:

“Charlottesville, Va., May 20, 1878:
“Score stands end of fourth inning W. & L. 9, Univer-
sity naught. Hurrah!”

“Charlottesville, Va., May 20, 1878:
“School victorious. Score twelve to 0. W. & L. vic-
tory.”

I enjoyed an after-meeting gathering with some of
my old cronies—Buck Miles, Ricky Burton, and Brook
Barber. It seemed that I met all night. After dismissing
these Unholy Three, I went on to the New Yorker with
Stu Wurzburger, Bill Owen, and Leigh Bullock.

I mentioned above that our basketball team had been
to New York to play in Madison Square Garden. If I had
not been so excited about the basketball game I could fill
this column by listing the names of alumni who greeted
me and our team. Babe Spotts, whom you will remember
as quite a basketball player himself while in college, and
is now teaching and coaching at Adelphi Academy, gave
us a lot of assistance. He had seen the Long Island team
play several games this year and his scouting was helpful.
The same applied to Joe Pette, our basketball captain of
1936, Frank Urmey, another ex-basketball player, was on
hand. Bill Hyman, Clarence Sager, Junius Powell, Allan
McDowell, and apparently hundreds of others, because
every time we scored a basket the applause was deafening,
indicating that a large number among the 11,000 present
were Washington and Lee men. I am sure that most of
you know that we were defeated 35 to 32, but I am so
happy to report that our team put up an excellent game
under the most trying circumstances. Madison Square
Garden is to basketball what the Rose Bowl is to football,
and it is very trying on a bunch of youngsters to perform
before so many people. I might add it is also quite trying
on their coach. The boys were very nervous at the begin-
ning, but settled down and played a real basketball game.
We were leading by three points with only a few minutes
to play. The New York papers were very complimentary
in their accounts of the game. |

Elsewhere in this issue you will find that on January
19 the University Board of Trustees elected two new
members to this distinguished body, viz Harry St. George
Tucker Carmichael, 1899, and Oscar C. Huffman, 1900.

[ have talked with a great many alumni since the election
of these men and I hardly see how a more popular selec-
tion could have been made. Harry and Oscar have for
years been very active and interested in the things per-
taining to Washington and Lee, and this column con-
gratulates the Board on the addition of these two new
members.

Several weeks ago we were delighted to have a day’s
visit from Thornton Allen. Thornton was back on the
campus renewing old friendships in addition to doing
some research work on his most famous composition, the
Washington and Lee Swing. There has been a lot written
about this well-known song, but Thornton gave us so
many interesting side lights we had never heard of.

I dropped by the Corner Store one night not long ago
and who should be there but Hunter (the Senator) Os-
borne, with Mrs. Osborne. They were just passing
through on their way home from a trip through West Vir-
ginia. Hunter told us of a party or two he had had with a
few of his former Washington and Lee friends, among
them Joe Holt in Clarksburg and Johnny Morrison in
Charleston. He told us his “‘side-kick” Jeb Stuart is now
located in Sunset, Pennsylvania, and doing quite well in
the canning business. Who of you of the early twenties
don’t remember this pair?

Along about this same time we were pleased to have a
visit from Eddy Lyons en route to Richmond, Virginia,
from Detroit to attend the annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Chemical Society. Eddie pays us a visit about once a
year, and we are always delighted to see him. Joe Copper
also visited his family some time back and brought us lots
of news from alumni in Birmingham, Alabama.

The records say that on January 28 the Thirty-second
Annual Fancy Dress Ball was held in Doremus Gymna-
sium. I haven’t seen all of them, but I have missed very
few since 1914. Each year we think the ball more beauti-
ful than ever, and this year was no exception. The setting
was a Charleston, South Carolina, garden before the Civil
War days. The garden was surrounded by a very realistic
brick wall pierced by iron gateways and draped with vines
and climbing roses. The trees were there, the moss was
there—in fact everything was there except the scene of
magnolia blossoms. The costumes of those taking part in
the figure, who entered from the Colonial portico, were of
the period, and were graceful and becoming.

I am happy to say that Miss Annie Jo White, the
originator of the ball and friend of hundreds of alumni,
was able to be present.

The alumni representation at this function was mostly
from recent classes. I wish it were possible for all of our
alumni to see this outstanding social event of Washington
and Lee. At this time of the year it is not convenient for
many alumni to attend a University Function, but it is not
too soon, however, for you to start planning to be with us

[16]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

at Finals, and especially if your class is having a reunion.
The dates are June 8, 9, and 10. Mark these dates on your
calendar. If you are your own boss there are few excuses
for your absence—if you are not, put in your application
now for a vacation at this time. Early in May you will re-
ceive a bulletin giving full particulars, and before that
time your class agent will be writing you and will also call
these dates to your attention.

ar

Marriages

The Rev. Witt1AmM W. Grass, Jr., B. A. 1929, of
Winchester and Halifax, Virginia, and Miss Ruth Kath-
leen Elkins of Elkton, North Carolina, were married last

November at the Elkton, North Carolina, Presbyterian
Church.

 

KENNETH AuBURN Goopk, B. A. 1925, and Miss
Dorothy Ethel Stanton were married last November at
Cleveland Heights, Ohio. They are at home at 3507
Northcliffe Road, Cleveland Heights.

JAmMEs Owen Watts, A. B. 1936, was married De-
cember 18, 1937, to Miss Sara Webb Key in the Chapel
of St. Bartholomew's, New York City. They live in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, where Mr. Watts is attending the
Harvard Law School.

Epwarp WALLACE Bren’, 1933, was married to Miss
Jean Williams McMillan on February 4, in Louisville,
Kentucky. They will make their home in Paris, Kentucky.

TuppER SWANDALE ALLEN, 1933, was married Feb-
ruary 3 to Miss Jane Blair at Kenosha, Wisconsin.

 

In Memoriam

AsuLty CABELL, 86, retired attorney and first Jury
Commissioner of St. Louis, died at his home in that city
January 3. He attended Washington College one year
while General Lee was its president; received his LL. B.
in 1873.

Mr. Cabell was born in Washington, D. C., the son of
a congressman from Florida. After serving as Jury Com-
missioner at St. Louis he became president of the Ameri-
can School Book Company, returning to his law practice
in 1897. In 1905, he was president of the Missouri Society
of the Sons of the American Revolution.

Mr. Cabell’s father, Edward Arrington Cabell, was a
member of the class of 1833 at Washington College.

Local Alumni Association Notes
LOUISVILLE

NINETEEN alumni attended a “Lee Day Banquet” held
by Louisville alumni on January 19 at the Brown Hotel.
Professor Clayton Williams of the Washington and Lee
Law School addressed the alumni, after which a brief talk
was given by Professor W. S. Milburn, principal of the
Louisville Male High School, with Mr. Williams and Dr.
C. W. Karraker, who were guests at the banquet.

W. R. Knebelkamp, 1921, presided in the absence of
President John J. Davis, who was ill. Those present in-
cluded: Thos. C. Nugent, Jr., 1938; Murrel D. Klein,
1925; Peel Rivers, 1933; Ed. Axton, Jr., 1938; John W.
May, Jr., 1916; Ernest S. Clarke, Jr., 1928; N. C. Evans,
1916; Greenberry Simmons, 1927; W. R. Knebelkamp,
1921; Bob Foree, Jr., 1927.

G. R. Smiley, 1902; Geo. Burks, 1927; Martin Z.
Kaplan, 1936; Farris A. Sampson, 1903; Arthur Tabb,
1904; Edw. A. Dodd, 1926; R. A. Bate, Jr., 1928; Henry
K. Hill, 1925; Wm. F. Chandler, 1929; and Charles D.
Mercke, 1929.

ST. LOUIS

TWENTY-SEVEN alumni and ten students attended a
Washington and Lee alumni luncheon at St. Louis De-
cember 28. William McC. Martin, member of the Board
of Trustees, addressed the meeting, talking on various ac-
tivities of the University, especially from the trustees’
viewpoint.

John L. Patterson, president of the St. Louis alumni,
has projected plans for a series of informal monthly
luncheons and issuance of a monthly bulletin on alumni
activities in the city and vicinity. The bulletins would be
issued about two days prior to the luncheons.

Alumni who attended the December 28 luncheon were :
Charles H. Reasor, Tom Cowan Atwood, George F. At-
wood, Maury A. Jones, David F. Crossen, James H.
Woods, Norman R. Thurston, F. M. Robinson, Jr.,
Burchard S. Pruett.

James O. Phelps, Jr., Oswood H. Peckham, Joseph R.
Long, John A. Newton, Edward H. Miller, Wm. McC.
Martin, W. C. Magruder, Jr., Henry S. Hartzog, Wm. C.
Edwards.

Wm. P. Diggs, L. D. Danforth, Edwin H. Bacon, C.
E. Allen, Jr., H. D. McNew, Lawrence Howerton, M. H.
Braun, Earl Thompson, Jr., John L. Patterson.

Those present now attending the University were: Jos.
B. Edwards, David B. Galt, Landon Jones, Sam P. Mc-
Chesney, Jr., Douglas B. Remmers, Joseph M. Stewart,
G. E. von Kalinowski, Robert M. White, II, D. W. Wilk-
inson, Lloyd B. Worner, Jr.

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Late Newton D. Baker

(Continued from page 4)

the even-tempered, likable young lawyer became private
secretary to Postmaster General Wilson, but in 1897 set
up a private practice in his home town, Martinsburg, West
Virginia; he was born there December 3, 1871.

Although very successful in law practice at Martins-
burg, he soon succumbed to the lure of politics, and in
1902 was elected City Solicitor for Cleveland, Ohio. He
was married that year to Miss Elizabeth Leopold.

He held the important Cleveland position until 1912,
when he advanced still further in his climb to the top by
becoming mayor of the city of Cleveland. He was re-
elected in 1914, and gained such recognition that he was
appointed Secretary of War by President Wilson at the
conclusion of his term in 1916. It was in this capacity that
he won for himself fame that will never die.

In 1921 he resigned from the President’s cabinet, leav-
ing behind him an enviable record—one of great war-
time deeds done by a man who naturally loved and fos-
tered peace.

Mr. Baker returned to private practice after turning in
his resignation, but concentrated most of his efforts to-
ward the betterment of international relations. He at-
tended the World Court of Arbitration at The Hague in
1928, and was one of the strongest advocates of the
League of Nations. He led a gallant but futile fight for
the United States to join the League in 1924, climaxed by
a brilliant but still futile speech before the Democratic
Convention of that year.

He realized that the League of Nations was far from
a perfect set-up, but declared, “If we wait for a perfect
League we shall have to wait until we have gone to
Heaven.”

His efforts toward establishing more friendly rela-
tions between the great powers of the world won him dis-
tinction in 1933, when he was awarded a medal “for ser-
vices to humanity” by the National Institute of Social
Sciences.

Although leading an active political and business life,
the famous statesman never forgot his home life. He
loved to garden, to aid in the preparation of meals, and to
enjoy all the comforts of a real home. He spent many eve-
nings settled down by a log fire reading, being an ardent
devotee of literature and art.

His considerate and amicable personality won him
many friends, both among neighbors and business ac-
quaintances. Mr. Baker had a keen sense of humor and
often exchanged anecdotes with friends, his sharp and
penetrating mind often getting the best of them.

He died peacefully at his home at 2 p. m. Christmas
Day, his family at his bedside.

—By Bos STEELE, Class of 1942.

Named to U. S. Senate

ALFRED EVAN REAMEs of Medford, Oregon, who re-
ceived his LL. B. from Washington and Lee in 1893, has
been appointed to the United States Senate to serve out
the unexpired term of Frederick Steiwer, whose resigna-
tion became effective February 1. The term has approxi-
mately eleven months to run.

Senator Reames is the first Democrat in a number of
years to serve Oregon in the United States Senate. He
was appointed by Oregon’s Governor Martin, a Democrat,
and in following Steiwer he succeeds one of the staunch-
est Republican critics of the Roosevelt administration.

Senator Reames, well known throughout Oregon, was
educated at the University of the Pacific at San Jose, Cali-
fornia, and at the University of Oregon as well as at
Washington and Lee.

He entered private law practice when leaving school
and subsequently became district attorney in his home
county, then a member of the Democratic Central Com-
mittee’s Executive Committee.

Senator Reames was quoted as saying he does not in-
tend to enter the May primaries.

 

Opens Washington Office

RHEA Wuit ey, LL. B. 1927, formerly special agent
in charge of the New York office of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, has opened offices in Washington, D. C.,
‘for the general practice of law.” His offices are located in
the Southern Building.

Whitley was stationed in Seattle, Atlanta, Philadel-
phia, San Francisco, and St. Louis before going to New
York in 1934, where he wrote an outstanding successful
chapter in the history of the FBI as chief of the metro-
politan office.

He was a “G-man”’ for ten years after leaving Wash-
ington and Lee, and participated in some of the most note-
worthy cases on the FBI’s records, including the hunt for
John Dillinger and various phases of the Lindbergh kid-
napping.

Whitley was married last October to Miss Peggy
Douglas of Washington, D. C., whom he first met when
she was a student at Sweet Briar; and he was an under-
graduate at Washington and Lee. He is a native of Jones-
boro, Arkansas.

At the time of his retirement from the FBI, one news-
paper quoted Whitley as saying he considered Clyde Bar-
row, Bonnie Parker, Verne Miller, and Baby Face Nelson
the most dangerous criminals during his decade of crime
detection for the Department of Justice.

His pet peeve, the same newspaper said in an inter-
view with him, is “G-Men as depicted in the movies.”’

[18]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1893

Hat L,. Norwoop has been a member of the lower
house of representatives of the State of Arkansas, state
senator, prosecuting attorney, ten years attorney general,
three years state director of the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration, and is now special assistant to the deputy
administrator, Federal Housing Administration.

Lon H. KEtty is a member of the law firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Building, Char-
leston, W. Va.

Ike KEMPNER is president of the United States Na-
tional Bank, Galveston, Texas.

1894

Hucu Btatn is back on his old job as a teacher after
straying for fifteen years to business. He is chairman of
the English department of Loyola University and pro-
fessor of journalism. He has a daughter and two sons, all
married.

1896

V.E. FuNKuHouser is president of Funkhouser Equip-
ment Company for contractors, railroads, industries, 2425
Jefferson Street, Kansas City, Mo.

Stockton Hera TYLER is back in the practice of law
after serving as head of the Virginia ABC board. His
firm is Mann & Tyler. His son, James Hoge Tyler, III,
B. A., 1931, is associated with the firm, and his second
son, Stockton, is a student at Washington and Lee.

GrorcE G. STILEs is president of the Dixie Harness
Horse Association, Inc. His home is at
Rome, Georgia.

1897

W. H. M. Drakks is cashier of the Mis-
sissippi Southern Bank, Port Gibson, Miss.
Two of his sons were in last year’s class,
one an M. A., and the other an A. B.

A. C. DuwNtap is assistant general
freight agent of the Norfolk and Western
Railway Company, Roanoke, Va.

LeRoy Barrerr gets back to Lexing- ft
ton every summer. He is professor at Trin-
ity College, Hartford, Connecticut.

 
  
 

 

1898

Henry W. ANDERSON is a well known member of the
Richmond, Virginia, bar, a member of the firm of Hun-
ton, Williams, Anderson, Gay, and Moore, with offices in
the Electric Building, Richmond.

Davin M. Barctay has been in the government ser-
vice for a number of years. His Washington address is the
Cordova Apartments.

BorpDEN Burr is a well known attorney of Birming-
ham, Alabama, and a member of the firm of Benners,
Burr, McKamy & Forman, with offices in the Brown-
Marx Building.

HowE t J. Davis is president of the East Tennessee
Coal Company at Knoxville, Tennessee, with office at 415
Fidelity Bankers Trust Company Building. His home ad-
dress is Kingston Pike, Knoxville.

Dr. Rue E. EBERSOLE is a retired medical officer of
the United States Public Health Service. His address is
1055 Cambridge Crescent, Norfolk, Virginia.

CHARLES J. FAULKNER, JR., is vice-president and gen-
eral counsel of Armour and Company, Chicago, and a di-
rector in various corporations.

RicHARD FLourNoy has been in the State Department
for a number of years and is a recognized authority on
various phases of international law. His Washington ad-
dress is 3122 P Street, N. W.

Epwarp A. O'NEAL is president of the American
Farm Bureau, the largest farm organization in the United
States, which represents over 1,000,000 farm people and
has a membership of 39 state Farm Bureau
Federations. Mr. O’ Neal acts in an advisory
capacity to the President of the United
States, the Secretary of Agriculture and
other administrators in carrying out agri-
cultural measures.

SAMUEL G. HAMNER is practicing his
profession in Lynchburg, Virginia, and is a
member of the law firm of Edmunds and
| Hamner, with offices at 914-18 Peoples
| Bank Building.

para /y | C. W. F. SPENCER is practicing law un-
: 1 stil! der

the firm name of Spencer & Spencer,
uh Wiggm. Peoples National Bank Building, Rock Hill,
South Carolina.

‘ oe

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

SAM SLIcEr’s address is Slicer Service Station, 342
West Peachtree Street, N. W., Atlanta, Ga.

D. C. SATTERWHITE has moved to Washington, D. C.,
after living for the past twenty years in Boston. He is

connected with Stanley H. Horner, Inc., Motor Car Com-
pany. His address is 2514 Que Street, N. W.

Lon D. Cartwricut is located in Beaumont, Texas.

W. D. McSweEEN is a member of the law firm of Mc-
Sween & Shepherd, Newport, Tenn.

WarREN WHITSIDE is a colonel in the United States
Army, stationed at the Front Royal Quartermaster De-
pot, Front Royal, Va.

E. Wartnc WILSON is practicing law at 1419 Land
Title Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

Rosert H. Turner has been with the Department of
Justice since 1918, holding the office of assistant and par-
don attorney, and during that period has at times been
acting pardon attorney. Previous to 1918 he practiced law
in the District of Columbia for several years, and prior to
that time was secretary to a joint committee of Congress,
having to do with railway mail pay and second-class post-
age.

1899

W. C. Watson lives at 45 Smith Street, West Haven,
Conn.

A. Stuart Gipson is rector of Trinity Episcopal
Church of Manassas, Va.

McCueEsNEy HocsuHEap is an eye, ear, nose, and
throat specialist at 602-606 Georgia Avenue, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.

ALBAN G. SNYDER lives at 424 Taylor Street, Chevy
Chase, Md. He has not been back to Lexington since
graduation, but promises to try to remedy this record be-
fore long.

1900

Hitton HamprTon is a member of the law firm of
Hampton, Bull & Crom, Citizens Bank Building, Tampa,
Fla. He has been practicing law in Tampa since 1901. He
served as a member of the first Charter Board of Tampa
and later was elected city attorney for five years. He cher-
ishes among his best memories his association with the
Class of 1900 at Washington and Lee and tries to keep in
touch with them.

1902

A. B. GRAYBILL is professor of education at Green-
brier College, Lewisburg, W. Va.

J. P. WALL is an attorney-at-law, 5414 Leary Avenue,
Seattle, Wash.

R. F. Cooper is president of the Mississippi Synodical
College, Holly Springs, Miss. He had a son who grad-
uated from Washington and Lee, who is with the Mengel
Company, Louisville, Ky.

ELBERT BooGHeERr lives at Merchantville, N. J.

1903

JAMEs A. Parks is practicing law in Clinton, Mo.

Joun M. Corserr is practicing law in Bay City,
Texas.

W. J. TuRNEr is general manager of the Braden Cop-
per Company, Rancagua, Chile. He has two sons in pre-
paratory schools in this country.

R. A. Rurr lives at Elkhorn, W. Va.

1904

Joun McCvurgr is a professor in the Department of
Chemistry, New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, New
Mexico.

HARVEY CRABILL is practicing law in Monroeville,
Ind. He has had many distressing losses in his family ; is
still an interested and cooperative son of Washington and

Lee.

JouN Knox ARNOLD lives at 2818 Connecticut Ave-
nue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

JouNn R. HANDLAN has spent thirty-one years with
the Carnegie Steel Corporation. He has a nephew who is
in the law school this year. Would like to hear from some
of his classmates. His address is R. 2, Belle Vernon, Pa.

1906

CuHarLes A. DunLApP has been working with the A.
T.& S. F. R. R. out of Wellington, Kans., as fireman and
now engineer for thirty-six years. He married Katherine
Hackney.

GrorcE W. P. Wuip is located in the Munsey Build-
ing, Baltimore, Md., as an attorney. He says life goes as
usual with him.

WattTeEr H. Dun ap, 4517 Hawthorne Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C., is doing work on statistics for the
Federal Power Commission, with Vice-Chairman Manly
and Dozier DeVane, on cost of electric energy. He is still
a bachelor.

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1907 .

A. R. Larrick is in his twentieth year in charge of the
First Presbyterian Church of Plant City, Fla. He has a
son who is in his third year at Washington and Lee.

E. Crypr Hocs is with the Lathrop-Hoge Construc-
tion Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. His firm built the fire-
proof roof construction on the main buildings, Newcomb
Hall and the Law Library, in the recent improvements at
the University.

Donatp W. M. MacCvruer is minister of the Rose
City Park Community Church, Portland, Ore.

Joun W. FLANNAGAN, JR., is a member of Congress,
representing the Ninth District of Virginia.

Davip H. HI t is engaged in construction work with
the Merritt, Chopham and Scott Corporation. His address
is 310 Edgewood Ave., Westfield, N. J.

 

1908 gene

Dr. Louis K. Koon’z, B. A., 1908,
managing editor of The Pacific Histori-
cal Review, and professor of History
at the University of California, Los
Angeles, Calif., is serving as visiting
professor of history at William and
Mary.

JaMEs O'BRIEN is practicing law;
address him: Mezzeline Suite, 817
South Western Avenue, Los Angeles,
Calif. His daughter, Jane, 18, is a feature player at War-
ner Brothers First National Studios, and he has three
sons, 16, 14 and 11.

1909

S_N. Hosnovwr lives at 101 Oakenwold Street, Staun-
ton, Virginia.

Cares S. GLascow is practicing law in Lexington,
Va. He married Constance Edwards of St. Louis and
they have a daughter and two sons.

1910

Harry Tucker is professor of highway engineering
and director of the Engineering Experiment Station at
North Carolina State College, Raleigh.

W. W. GwatuHMey is an engineer for the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company, with offices in the Jarrett
Building, Grafton, W. Va.

HamILton Artuur (Tupsy) Derr is assistant to the
president and technical director of the Marietta Paint &

 

Color Company, Marietta, Ohio, where he has been for
the past fourteen years. Prior to that time he has been
successively chemist, factory superintendent, and super-
intendent of technical service of the Sherwin-Williams
Company and had earlier been with DuPont. He has a
son in Washington and Lee and a daughter at Mount
Holyoke College.

Jim Raper has been working for the past several
years for the National Park Service, Department of the
Interior. His work takes him all over the United States.

1911

J. G. Jounston is a farmer and surveyor and lives at
Murat, Va. He has a son who is in the junior class at
Washington and Lee this year and a daughter who is in the
junior class at Queens-Chicora College, Charlotte, N. C.

Va W. K. Price is in the banking busi-
e 7 . be
FP ness connected with the Citizens Na-
St =

tional Bank, New Market, Virginia.

“Sage 1912

Jim SoMERVILLE is with the United
States Department of Commerce, Bu-
reau of Foreign and Domestic Com-
merce. His address is Bush House, Ald-
wych, W. C. 2, London, England. He
was in the United States last summer,

but too late to be present at the reunion
of the class of 1912.

Lioyp R. CRAIGHILL is a missionary at Nanchang,
Kiangsi, China, under the auspices of the Episcopal
Church.

FREEMAN H. Hart is teaching at Hampden-Sydney
College, Virginia. He is vice-president and national his-
torian of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

Tep Rick is with the Connecticut General Life Insur-
ance Company in the capacity of Assistant Superintendent
of Agencies, Hartford, Conn.

James N. DANIEL is practicing law in Chipley, Fla.

Paut HEAVENER is Assistant Trust Officer of the
Charleston National Bank, Charleston, W. Va.

Aros J. HARBERT is judge of the Criminal Court of
Harrison County, Clarksburg, W. Va.

A. V. ADAMSON lives at 101 Chestnut Street, Garden
City, N. Y. He had a son in last year’s graduating class.

SAM SHERERTZ is practicing law in the Rosenberg
Building, Roanoke, Va.

[21]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1913

Junrus W. Puttey is practicing law in Courtland,
Va., county seat for Southampton County. He was mar-
ried in 1917 and has five children ranging from nineteen
years to five. He is commonwealth’s attorney for South-
ampton.

HERMAN Davinson is practicing medicine in Chicago
with offices at 30 North Michigan Avenue. Is interested
and helpful in everything pertaining to Washington and
Lee.

GAYLORD STONE has been elected President of the
Chamber of Commerce of Fort Worth, Texas.

BILL HANZSCHE is minister of the Prospect Presby-
terian Church, Trenton, N. J. He and Mrs. Hanzsche
sailed for Europe last April, traveled extensively in Ger-
many, Switzerland, and France, with a short time in Bel-
gium and Holland. They returned to this country in June.

WiLuiAM L,. Hoce is judge of the tenth judicial cir-
cuit of Alabama, Birmingham, Ala. He says “I am going
to be at the reunion. I am not going to try, I am going to
be there.”

1914

SAM LAUGHLIN, JR., is president of the Wheeling Tile
Company, Wheeling, W. Va.

Bos Hopson is a member of the law firm of Wood-
ward, Dawson and Hobson, Louisville, Ky. His son, Bob,
Jr., is a sophomore at Washington and Lee. Bob was in
Lexington for Homecoming.

FRANCIS MILLER was recently elected a member of the
State Legislature from Fairfax, Va.

EASLEY Epmunps is a highly successful lawyer in the
city of Lynchburg, Va., representing the First National
Bank and other interests of equal standing. He married
Bertha Dingle of Lynchburg and they have two daugh-
ters. He has a summer home in the country, lives in an
apartment in town in the winter; interested in raising
flowers ; does his part in civic matters.

Henry Barker is practicing law in Bristol, Tenn.

WayNE ELy is a member of the law firm of Leahy,
Walther, Hecker and Ely, with offices in the Bank of
Commerce Building, St. Louis, Mo. His home is in Web-
ster Groves. His son will enter Washington and Lee next
year.

1916

SELDEN McNEER married Jean Gregory, a Huntington
girl, and they have four children, two boys and two girls.

Selden has confined his activities since the war exclusively
to practicing law. His offices are in the First Huntington
National Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

R. S. Kime attended the 1916 reunion last finals, the
first time he had been to commencement since leaving
Washington and Lee. He is practicing law in Salem, Va.

F. STanvey Porter is practicing law with offices in
the Calvert Building, Baltimore, Md.

1917

GALLA PAxTON is in the cotton business in Greenville,
Miss.

Homer A. Jones is vice-president and cashier of the
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Va.-Tenn.
His son is a freshman at Washington and Lee.

Luke WILLIAMS is with the Bristol Company, makers
of instruments for recording, indicating and controlling,
with offices at 250 Stuart Street, Boston, Mass.

1918

J. Howe is in Philadelphia temporarily with a firm
doing an extensive business in the Far East. His address
is Philadelphia Y. M. C. A., Philadelphia, Pa.

1919

RAyMOND TILL lives at Marblehead, Mass. He is mar-
ried and has three daughters and a son. Says his occupa-
tion is that of a fisherman.

W. M. (Tommy) Farrar, Jr., lives at Jefferson
Road, Short Hills, N. J. He is married and has three chil-
dren.

Henry P. Forker, JR., is president of the Buhl-Kim-
berly Corporation. Is married and has two children, a boy
13 and a girl 11.

1920

A. H. Grey recently was appointed attorney for the
Unemployment Commission, Division of Tennessee. His
home is in Brownsville, Tennessee.

Horr STARK was recently appointed solicitor of the
city court of Gwinnett County, Lawrenceville, Ga. He says
the word city is misleading as the court is a county-wide
court.

Mac Srusss has recently become a member of the law
firm of Dorsey, Stubbs & Dorsey, lawyers, with offices in
the Healey Building, Atlanta, Ga. He is a member of the
Democratic executive committee of his county.

[22]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

HENCE Youne lives at 1207 Court Street, Port Huron,
Mich.

JouHN DryE is a member of the law firm of Larkin,
Rathbone & Perry, 70 Broadway, New York.

1921
R. C. Woon is practicing law in Lynchburg, Va.

T. X. Parsons is a member of the law firm of Show-
alter, Parsons, Kuyk & Staples, Colonial-American Bank
Building, Roanoke, Va.

J. Epwarp Moy cer is an attorney and counsellor at
law, Franklin, Va. He is married and has two children, a
boy, Edward, Jr., agen seven, and a daughter, Mary Bur-
well, age two and a half. He lives next door to J. W. B.
Thompson, 1921, who is town manager of Franklin. He
says that Bill is helping make the best
town in Tidewater Virginia even better.

1922

CHARLES MILLER CAMPBELL is a
member of the firm of Parks & Camp-
bell, merchandise brokers, Lexington,
Kentucky. It has been eight years since
he has been on the campus, but he prom-
ises to mend his ways.

Louis DuNLAP is with the Pulaski
Veneer Company, Pulaski, Virginia.

1923 ~

Frep Satres, 1923, is still employed by Belle Alkali
Company in Charleston, West Virginia. He has two
daughters Katherine and Frances. Writes that he is still
rooting for a football victory over West Virginia.

J. B. Hottoway is minister of the First Baptist
Church of Ironton, O., having recently moved there from
Cincinnati. Mr. and Mrs. Holloway and their three chil-
dren went to Ironton June 1. His new church, with 700
members, has the largest Baptist congregation in Ironton.

1924

WALTER H. Scorr is practicing law in Roanoke, Va.,
at 100 Campbell Avenue.

Lee G. BENForp is still living in Arlington, Va., but
has changed his address to 3204 Columbia Pike.

Joun W. GREEN is engaged in the general practice of
law with offices at 407 Park National Bank Building,
Knoxville, Tenn. Is associated with J. B. Wright, general
counsel for L. & N. Railway.

 

Jack Tuomas is the minister of the Second Presby-
terian Church, Charleston, S. C. Jack was a visitor to the
campus just after finals.

1925

H. Epwarp Rrerze recently opened the Rietze Dis-
tributing Company, Inc., wholesale distributors of Hot-
point Electric Appliances, at 977 Logan Street, Louisville,
Kentucky.

The Morris Plan Bankers’ Association, which has
maintained its headquarters in Richmond since 1935, has
established national headquarters in Washington, D. C.,
with JosEpH E. Brrnre, 1925, Executive Secretary and
Treasurer, in charge. Birnie, the executive secretary of the
Association, is the author of numerous articles and ad-
dresses on banking.subjects. He is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, Omicron Delta Kappa,
the Commonwealth Club of Richmond,
and the Country Club of Virginia. The
Association’s new Washington head-
quarters are located in the Morris Plan
Bankers’ Association Washington Build-
ing, Fifteenth and G Streets, N. W.

1927

Bos Fores, JR., is district represen-
tative in western Kentucky and south-
ern Indiana for the General Electric
Company. His address is 2448 Glenmary,
Louisville, Kentucky.

“STEAM” GaGE is with W. A. Gage & Company, cot-
ton factors, of Memphis, Tenn. His office is in the Falls
Building. He has been married five years.

WILBUR S1IMMows is the minister of the First Church
of Christ, Cornwall, Conn. He was married June 22, 1931,
to Nell Chapman of Grove Hill, Ala. They have two sons,
Robert Wilbur, Jr., and Frank Chapman. Received the de-
gree of B. D. from Yale University last June, after four
years of graduate work there. Mr. Simmons spent three
years as assistant pastor of the First Methodist Church
of New Haven, Conn., three years as pastor of the Con-
gregational Church of Bridgewater, Conn., and has been
in his present work since September, 1934.

1928

WitiiaM J. Luria is with Luria Bros and Company,
Inc., Iron and Steel, Philadelphia, Pa.

WitiiaM C. NorMAN is with his father in the Bank
of Crossett, Ark. He is married and has a son two and a
half years old. Has not been back to Virginia since 1928.

[23]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

CHARLES J. HOLLAND is practicing law in the Seybold
Building, Miami, Fla. Says he is still a bachelor.

STANLEY COOLING lives at 60 Marshall Street, Brook-
line, Mass.

Jor Copper, with the U. S. Steel Corporation for sev-
eral years, in New York City, was transferred recently to
Birmingham, Ala. He is assistant chief engineer of U. S.
Steel’s Southern Subsidiaries. His address is Highland
Plaza Apartments, Birmingham, Ala.

1929

Lewis F. PowE .t is associated with the law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay & Moore, Electric
Building, Richmond, Va.

Jutius Bessy is in the insurance business in Tupelo,
Miss.

Jor Lockerr is connected with the law firm of An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth & Campbell, Gulf Building, Hous-
ton, Texas.

Joun Eppy has been working for the past three years
as assistant national bank examiner. His address is 619
National Metropolitan Bank, Washington, D. C.

KENNETH SPENCER is with the Department of Justice,
Washington, D. C.

Bitt BLack is in Memphis, Tennessee, this year to
complete a year’s residency in surgery.

1930

LAWRENCE Y. Foore is a member of the law firm of
Stevens & Foote, 306-313 Ross Building, Hattiesburg,
Mississippi.

J. ARLINGTON PAINTER was married in October, 1932,
to Virginia Thomas of Lexington, Va. He was graduated
in 1933 from the Richmond, Va., University with the de-
gree of LL. B., but gave up the practice of law and is now
teaching in the commercial department of the Loch Haven
Senior High School. He and Mrs. Painter are frequent
visitors to Lexington.

Joun M. RicHarpson is married and has two chil-
dren. They live in Martinsville, Va. John is secretary-
treasurer of the Acme Motor Company, Inc.

A. L. “Bub” Roserson is in the credit and collection
department of FE. I. duPont de Nemours & Company,
Wilmington, Dela.

MurrELL KapLan is practicing medicine; address,
207 Physicians & Surgeons Building, New Orleans, La.

1931

C. H. McMILLan was married on the seventh of last
November to Miss Jae Wells. They are living at 7529
Wellington Way, Clayton, Mo.

RENO PorTER is resident in medicine for the State of
Wisconsin General Hospital at Madison, Wis.

1932

JAmEs D. Sparks. LL. B., 1932, of Monroe, Lou-
isiana, visited the campus recently. He was en route to
New York, accompanied by his bride.

Raymonp T. LeMay is in the general insurance and
real estate business in Marlboro, Massachusetts. He was
elected recently to the school committee for a four-year
term.

DoNALD S. HosTerrer is in Juneau, Alaska, serving
with the Department of Justice. He wrote in December:
“Believe it or not, it is not even necessary to wear a top-
coat here.”’

KENNETH SMITH has recently been made master in
chancery of his county. His address is State Bank Build-
ing, Watseka, III.

Jerry HoLsTEIn is enjoying a flourishing law practice
in Lexington and Rockbridge County. He is line coach of
the Washington and Lee freshman football team.

1933

Topp DeVan, 1933, now Dr. DeVan, is interning for
two years at the Lankenau Hospital, Girard and Corin-
thian Avenues, Philadelphia. He says he often sees Bob
Smith, 1933, and Ran Shields, 1932, who also are intern-
ing in Philadelphia.

Joun A. WomE por is a Presbyterian minister at
Appalachia, Va. He is married. Reports there are three
Washington and Lee alumni preaching in his immediate
vicinity—Henry Mahler, 1931; Frank Lewis, 1932, and
himself.

Frep Cook is doing graduate work at the Harvard
School. His home is in Waynesboro, Va.

1934

Happy VICKERs is married and living at Montgom-
ery, West Virginia, where he is prosecuting attorney for
Fayette County.

Tommy ANDERSON is working for the firm of An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth & Campbell, Lawyers, of Houston,
Texas.

[24]

 

 

 

“lL EXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BOLEy

McCRUM’S

e

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee

$3.00

order now from

=

Whitman’s

and Martha Washington Candies

=

Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

=

Your Mail Order Will

Receive Our Best Attention

Professional Directory

William A. Hyman

Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
8

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building

Huntington, W. Va.

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House

Hackensack, N. J.
e

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building

Washington, D. C.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Ruff & Ready
Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921
Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building
Kast Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

rr

eC

nT, Ish you

ai WW O)d
fhe Chee NM Cul Bl aS ca

I

~
a
.
.
See

  
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
       
   
  

Chestaen ‘Chesterfield  festerfield ff
“PoE rer - .
“er w + eo-v o ' o

 

i C hesterfi. ( nhesterti,
‘re ARETTES anc neal
: as ¢ a
t y? i is
; (8ST Uhestertield
ee eer

} | neg
j Chesterfield Che ©
3 6 |

forget

   
  

(CRE s  rgper:
Chesterfic

-- ; ¢ - cw;aer-.
ey ’ e do

re

it

a

Ches Chesterfield a2 &—
~ . COIS 1S “a
“4 xo . c h wer 2 Hg Gee = 7 w :
ee te, Chesterfield (f Chesg  — ummm )
per. aoe  nesterfiels Ce
=x, = 8 Cougs
“4 stad . “ y ‘ 1 "7 3 .
Chester ~_ a s , ; S Sa it ohn s ny ie! é ; a wn

, ee

Chestertield

te ree

) RTE, =
 Westerlialy »..

/GaREYTES

= y bs
Te Orfie C hestertield Fay
' i > Thee

 
    
  
 
 

-_ m5]
Geils ef] 2
Chesterfield

-

4

’ Chesterfield

ood

      
 
     

esie: tield

(
.

  

Me: nS
Sow e eine
: c

: . ;
¢ as x
fe 4 a a
4 Sari;
ke! 2S. Cah
Bee gt a Ps
Da 3% or
ie ‘ = ee

‘ " fo .

‘ Poe wm Be. ‘a he
tt‘. ple ‘
ie 4 a oy “
beng $ re ae: :
; ' oe
4 5 Ci: oe as be

Be be Acetate!
rs wa
BS Sit) ee
ne ee
fees Wee
nae Se i -te -

4 , am at”
Ty ah) e eee

ve ~- Pon i

; we ae
orl ks PaaS. 2 *

Copyright 1938, LigGetr & Myers TOBACCO Co.

a:
o
ie

CaaS REM,

am

ee

I, ae Be

-

a.

a

