 

4 wee (

a

—

 

——-
‘ , ee ‘
SS a

LIBRARY OF

x

.
\ ;
~~ ;
. ed

ion of Washington and Lee

 

RS
- A . s 7 \ -
‘ p ne ' bY

-
* _ eae - —
3 "
See * athe ee
See ey
» ~~ -
«a? i) 4 :
Pw ON % .

 

,

i ee

: 7 +:

> Hf %

i P [jt *
, . | it

; + ee

if ats

od ii

he 184th Sess
193

 

> . IX i
: November:

ao

nln,

 

eT
F ‘Vol

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

There Are Still Four
FOOTBALL GAMES

Mae NPS oe oe a eee
Nov. 11 Virginia (Homecoming) . Lexington
Nov. 18 Centre College . . . . Danville, Ky.
Nov. 25 Maryland . . . . College Park, Md.

Of course there 1s an invitation, an urgent one,
to Homecoming. If you have not made arrangements for
tickets or want reservations over night, wire or telephone
me, No. 580. CY YOUNG

Alumni Secretary

 

 

Results So Far

Sept. 23 W.andL. 0 West Virginia 0
Sept. 30 W. and L. 14 Roanoke College 6
Ce 7 Waa 7 William and Mary 0
OG 14 W.andL. 0 Yale 14
Od. 21: We. ama. F Kentucky 0

Od 28 W.andL. 0 Princeton 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— 7,

Appalachian Association

J. M. Barker, Jr., Security Invest-
ment Company, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Bldg.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank
Building.

Charleston, West Virginia
Cc. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton
Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building,
Hagerstown, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

_Detroit Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building.

Huntington, West Virginia
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building.

Jacksonville, Florida
R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank
Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
George Burks, 421 Market Street.

Memphis, Tennessee
Maynard W. Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank
Building.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title
suilding.

Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Roanoke, Virginia
Ran G. Whittle, Boxley Building.

Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life
Building.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and
Door Company.

Washington, D. C.

Woodson P. Houghton, Southern
Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni,, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Vol. IX NOVEMBER 1933 No 2

 

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President................ Water A. McDonarp, 1910
Vice-President....JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER, 1902
Secretary........... Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
least’ .....:29Ee. eee Sruart Moore, 1915

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Doztrger A. DEVANE, 1908

 

 

=i Epwarp W. L&E, 1913
Dr. Joun WititAm CLAupy, 1909
HERBERT GRANT JAHNCKE, 1930
Contents for November 1933
PAGE
The Presidegees Paes: dee thc..ihecce.-c....-.-c0sccdgbessocouiiiehde so ooeens 3
The 184th Session of Washington and Lee...............0....0000.... +
Autumnal Mood, by Eugene N. S. Girard, 1934........00000....... 5
Happy Days Are Here Again, by William L. Mapel...... , 6
Basil Manly, a Biographical Sketch by the editor................ 10
The’ Class-Agents, a list. 2ii.............ccccceee-scssseeesesesessnesosessapeseee 12
last A peritiee | CURGRS.ic, ants: «~~~ <<vaneve- Bas cscoaassubemhledbe outages ovens 13
Local Alumams ASsSOCiatiOriyOtes,........c...... die. iiseccscctecnsecesees 22
Ca Ae TMI... soda -ieesch MMEIEIEE: <onis oes Lapocetevepabaapaaianes--flammiahs »- 005s 26
Sai URRUMCIN, «25525 5555s es 55 sas oe awd lbp <LI Ble casings 32

Loa

E

a eh i. ee, ae

I

 

N

oe ee

 

A wm mM

I

| ae ae oe a a ee

The President's Page

What Can the Alumnus Do?

LMosT without exception, the alumni of any given
institution are stirred by generous impulses to-
Sometimes the emotion is
not more than a negative thing, a defense against at-
tack or imputation; sometimes it is but a transient

ward Alma Mater.

mood of kindliness, a vague wish-
fulness for her welfare.

But among Washington and Lee
men there is, happily, a genuine and
persistent desire to be of help, an
unselfish willingness to serve, even
to sacrifice, in behalf of the Uni-
versity.

It often happens that the alum-
nus of the bountiful motives does
not know precisely what mode of
assistance he may discover. Think-
ing of this problem in terms of our

 

local situation, and with ample apology to the intelli-
gence of our alumni capable of formulating their own
program, I venture to offer a few practical suggestions.

i

No

The most important aid which any former stu-
dent can now offer is support for the present
alumni movement, carried on by the class-
agents. The purposes of this movement are
so obvious, the plan itself is so reasonable, the
strain upon any one alumnus so inconsiderable,
that we may overlook the far-reaching conse-
quence. This proposal is possibly the finest
hope now before Washington and Lee.

Of tremendous significance, too, is the help
which can be provided by alumni in the matter
of enrolling the right student. We are not
primarily concerned here with numbers, but
we are deeply concerned with quality. No one
can recognize this peculiar quality better than
an alumnus. To give to the university au-
thorities the names of desirable boys and _ to
use personal influence upon these boys, this
contribution from any alumnus is of large
value to the work of the University.

Alumni can offer a subtle but an invaluable aid
by helping our graduates establish favorable
connections with the world into which they go,

[3]

6.

In many cases this is actually being done with
notable success. Some alumni employ the
young graduate; others use their personal in-
terest to help toward an advantageous contact.
It is a gracious and an enduring piece of
brotherly service that the older members of
our family can thus provide for the younger.

It is always in order for the alumnus to give
his own finer enthusiasms an expression here
on the campus. Innumerable opportunities
present themselves. Within these recent days,
one alumnus has made an indefinite—I hope,
a permanent—loan of an important Lee docu-
ment; another alumnus has given to the library
a set of forty books which he recognizes as
valuable for general culture. It will be re-
membered that an alumnus provided for the
safeguarding of the ruins of Liberty Hall.
The University is often the best depository for
tangible evidences of the passion which an
alumnus feels for some fragment of our his-
tory, some feature of our process, some cul-
tural reward which he himself drew from his
campus days.

Surely the alumni will bear in mind, if only
“in the back of the head,” the great possibilities
of the trust fund, in their own estate or in
designations which they may influence, ulti-
mately to benefit Washington and Lee. Many
men, unwilling or unable to disturb their capi-
tal funds, might make a provision for the Uni-
versity at that time when liquidation seems
most probable.

In rare but strategic instances alumni may find
an opportunity to present the cause of the Uni-
versity to men of wealth who are themselves
anxious to promote some educational agency
that draws strength from a long past and that
is directed toward a specific purpose in the
development of human personality.

Others sowed that we might reap; shall we be
unmindful of our obligation to provide increasing har-
vest for the years that are yet to be?

oe Fe Mme Meigs >

3 te: ee oe ee

The 184th Session of Washington and Lee

ae ENROLLMENT of students in the 184th

session of Washington and Lee was followed
closely, day by day, with great interest and curiously
paralleled the registration of last year. There were
variations in departments, but the student body is com-
posed of the same dimensions and character as this
campus has enjoyed during all the lean years. Over
800 students are again residents of this attractive com-
munity.

The first assembly of the student body was held on
Friday, September 15th in the gymnasium and was ad-
dressed by Dr. Tucker, dean, Sherwood Wise, president
of the student body and Dr. Gaines. Dr. Tucker’s
emphasis was upon academic rating and achievement,
presented as to men of both character and ability, and
Dr. Gaines reviewed for new and old alike, the sobered
estimate upon the privileges of residence here from all
points of view. Dr. Gaines is always reverent in feel-
ing but never dull. His audiences do not miss his
points.

There are no changes in policy to report except
the required residence in the dormitories of as many
freshmen exclusively as can be accommodated there.
Upper classmen act as monitors on each floor, a meas-
ure designed for its effect of induction into college and
campus life, rather than as discipline.

The effect of this new policy already shows in the
freshman class, a promise of stronger class feeling and
a heartier and more wholesome regimentation of this
body of the youngest men into the life and traditions of
the gentlemen of Washington and Lee.

Their absorption into the complex routine and cus-
toms has been unusually quickly established.

The University Dining Hall for the first time in
years begins a new session under efficient, sympathetic
and capable management and is full to capacity.

The general situation in athletics, and particularly
in football. will be reported more fully elsewhere.

There have been nine changes on the faculty. Five
former members who have been on leave of absence
have returned and four new men have come to fill va-
cancies. They are listed on page 5.

A summary of the opening of another college year
is difficult to report briefly. When the 184th year of
an institution begins in the adding of its mite of his-
tory, in its necessarily meagre and relatively small con-
tribution to that grandly sustained, vital force, that is
the living university, it is not done with ceremony. It
is rather in the obscure, conscientious devotion of those

ir 7

   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
  

J

a

| Re Se ee

servants upon the campus, in both faculty and students
to the machinery that runs the place, that the importance
of events lies hidden. There are no great stirring
moments. One simply goes to work again and in this
articulation of countless duties, small and large, in
which a thousand people are more or less concerned,
the university is in session again. Lexington awakens,
There is everywhere, after the relaxed luxury of the
summer, an activity, an interest, a spirit that have a
thousand springs. The opening of another session
also, underlying these ordered activities, a mood ane
that mood is optimistic here. It is serious in its maje
content, but not too serious. It is the same mood the
in its continuity and in its health, accounts for the yee
184 in the establishment and in the vigor of Washing:
ton and Lee.

Dr. Gaines, in his regular space in this magazin
has always to say to the alumni, what the great p
pose of this University is, and he says it in varied
forms. j

There will follow, from a representative of
student body, an essay from the student’s point o
view. In the freshness of this perception, in the i
mediacy of this appreciation, there cannot be an escap
from that emotion, every ardent alumnus can recaptu
of the mood of returning to Washington and Lee for
one more session.

im
*

 

The Football Pledge

It IS WITHIN the spirit of Washington and
an arresting and an engaging thought, that training,
in football, is kept, as all other matters of honor he
upon pledge. ?

Coach Tilson placed a pledge, itemized in prohibi-
tions against the integrity of a football player’s train-
ing for perfect physical condition, in the hands of the
members of the squad. They signed. They keep their
own training. Tex Tilson, in presenting the pledg
put emphasis not so much upon practical effects of
honoring the rules of training, as upon the spiri
effect of self-sustained discipline and genuine sacrifice
to a cause. This point of view is typical of Tilsor
representative of Washington and Lee and one measure
among others, of the advantage of having Washing-
ton and Lee coaches for Washington and Lee men.
Don Hostetter, coach of the Freshman team trains hi
men in the same way. It is character plus footbé
training.

Aa hw mm ON

I

mn “4 64 2 2 fe Se

Autumnal Mood

By E. N. S. Grrarp

‘mM A SENIOR, and I’ve been coming back to

Washington and Lee for three years. It is an

easy, calm transition that I make every Septem-
ber. 1 know what to expect when I get here—old fa-
miliar places, friends, ways, and yet each year I am a
little surprised when I get back. The campus is al-
ways more beautiful than I have remembered it to be,
[ am more pleased to meet old friends, to see old
sights. Perhaps that is the peculiar charm that at-
taches to this university.

There is nothing spectacular about the beginning
of a new year here. Men drift in slowly from their
different home towns, “Hi, gentlemen” is heard once
more on the streets of Lexington, the walk in front of
Washington college resounds again to the tread of
student feet—it is a slow, grateful return to the ac-
customed routine interrupted last June. And _ yet
there is something a little different about it. Another
year is gone, some friends are missing, courses are
changed, and this year there is a more serious, intense
tone on the whole campus. Perhaps the depression has
taught us who are still in college that life is not the
bed of roses we thought it to be. Perhaps we are
merely more grown up and aware of the value of what
we are getting here. Whatever be the reason, we are
more concerned with getting the most out of our col-
lege experience than we have ever been before.

That is the chief, the outstanding quality of Wash-
ington and Lee’s 184th year. Nothing else can be said
about it that has not already been said during its long
life of worthwhile service, well performed. Another
year is being added to the long line of full, rich years
that have gone before. Another step forward is being
taken toward the completion of the University’s span
of useful existence. I am happy and proud to be
here this year.

 

Changes in Faculty

THE NINE changes in the faculty, five former men
returning, four new men engaged, are as follows:

R. Nelson Latture, associate professor of political
Science and sociology, has returned after a semester
spent at the University of Chicago for graduate work.

After leave of absence of two years for graduate
Study at Yale University, Fitzgerald Flournoy returns
to his position as associate professor of English.

The history department welcomes the return of
Ollinger Crenshaw, assistant professor, after his ab-
sence of a year at Johns Hopkins University for grad-
uate work.

Lemuel L. Hill, instructor in biology, has been
engaged in graduate study for his doctorate at Cornell
University.

William M. Hinton returns to the department of
education and psychology after a semester of graduate
study at Ohio State University.

Among the new members of the faculty is Dr.
Larkin H. Farinholt, assistant professor of chemistry.
Dr. Farinholt took his undergraduate and graduate
work at Johns Hopkins University. He received his
doctorate from Oxford after studying in Queens Col-
lege of that institution for three years as a Rhodes
scholar. He has been engaged in research work in
Baltimore since 1931.

Lewis K. Johnson, new assistant professor of busi-
ness administration, comes to the University from
Mercer University, Macon, Georgia, where he has been
assistant professor of economics since 1928. Prior to
that he held the position of assistant instructor in money
and banking at the University of Virginia. Mr. John-
son received his B.S. in commerce from the University
of Virginia in 1923, and his M.S. in economics from
the same institution in 1931. He took a summer course
at Northwestern University in 1931, and a course at
Ohio State University during the past summer.

Dr. Rowland M. Myers, new instructor in the de-
partment of romance languages, will relieve Professors
John Graham and George J. Irwin from the elementary
courses, as they are now called upon to handle the ad-
vanced courses formerly taught by the late Dr. De La
Warr B. Easter, former head of the department. Dr.
Myers received his B.S. degree from Dartmouth Uni-
versity in 1928, and his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins in
1933, where he studied as a Richardson fellow. He was
abroad in 1926-27 with the foreign study group of the
University of Delaware. He taught French for two
years as an instructor in the teachers college of Johns
Hopkins.

C. E. Barthel, Jr., has been engaged as instructor
in physics. Mr. Barthel received both his B.S. and
M.S. degrees from the Louisiana State University,
where he was a fellow in physics.

[5]

Alumnus Tilson

 

Alumnus Hostetter

or i
og
+

Alumnus Young

Happy Days Are Here Again!

By Wivitam L. MAper

VERYWHERE that crowds gather—from Atlantic

City to the Century of Progress and back again

—fortune tellers ply their trade by making use
of the obvious. Had some enthusiastic Washington
and Lee alumnus sought words of prediction about
1933 football at his alma mater from some crystal
ball artist, this star-gazing charletan could have made
use of many cinches in foretelling what the fates
held in store in a gridiron way.

He could have pointed out in his ridiculous fashion
that, for example, the Generals of Washington and
Lee in 1932 won but a single game out of a schedule
of ten.

Then if he had been at all football-minded he’d
have put two and two together and out of his spook-
infested silence could have snatched the prediction that
things didn’t look too awfully well down at dear old
W. and L.

Ninety-nine times out of a hundred he’d have
been right. But it’s the outside chance that makes a
hoss race, and after all we are in the throes of a
New Deal: a deal that has left the campus of the
greatest institution in the land all ajitter, all aflutter,

[ 6 ]

and echoing almost every week to the tintinabulation”
of the big bronze bell that peals forth tidings of
victory on the striped field across the long, long bridge.

Happy days are here again! More folks are
whistling at the shaving mirror and singing in the
bathtub. From the new deal has come to Washington
a Lee a whole handful of picture cards and the real-
ization of just how unutterably grand it is to be favor-
ably mentioned once again in the sport page headlines.

It wasn’t written in the sands. It pretty much
couldn’t possibly be! But it was, and it is, and it will
be; and the reasons are two: a glorious spirit that
knows not defeat, and a coaching staff of gallant
gentlemen who know their gridistics and who can
teach them to others. .

This probably will turn out to be a very emotional
type of story, striking no responsive chord in the
hearts of those whose hands never perspire when the
ball is on the two-yard line. It has to be that way. It
can’t be anything else. What but emotion can creep
into the equation when one realizes that of the eleven
regulars of the decidedly unsuccessful team of 1932 nine ~
are members of the glorious eleven of 1933. Nine-—

 

T H E A & om oN

elevenths of a losing team executing a delightful about-
face and writing into football history the story of the
biggest team upset in the South.

Great spirit! Great coaching! Great hearts, and
a great system! It doesn’t take a pure logician to figure
out the conclusion that writes itself into a syl-
logism made up of such premises. Happy days

are here again!

Any one
with any sense
at all should
have the

writing on the

seen

wall before the
month of Sep-
tember had
much more
than got under
way. But those
who had much
sense tried to
look at things
cold - blooded-
ly. Washington
and Lee should
have fair
team, but
Washington &
Lee couldn’t go
far with no
more material
than seemed
apparent, and
with the suici-
dal ten-game
schedule that
loomed in the
offing. Win five maybe, just maybe!
Yale and Princeton and Kentucky and West Virginia
and V. P. I.; a fifty-fifty chance against Virginia and
William and Mary and Centre and Maryland; and un-
doubtedly a victory over Roanoke. ‘That’s the way
things looked as the football squad, thirty-four strong,
assembled on September 4.

As this is written six games have been played.
Yale and Princeton have won, Yale by two touch-
But West Virginia
It was a scoreless tie. Roanoke, true to
€xpectations, was beaten. William and Mary was de-
feated. And Kentucky—one of the great big prides of
the Southland; conqueror of powerful Georgia Tech;
rated as hands down better than Washington and Lee
—Kentucky too was vanquished. V. P. I. comes next,

a

eae

Pn Mase
x

Sure to lose to

downs and Princeton by one.
didn’t win.

I

Bolen, Guard
(Captain)

Left

Seaton, Back
Right
Sawyers,

 

[S|

Te, ee ee ee AR Se, ee

and then Virginia, and then Centre, and then Mary-
land. No one knows what the next four weeks will
tell, but everyone knows—and rejoices in the knowing
—that Washington and Lee will enter every game as
an even bet if not as the favorite. For those who for

years and years have hoped and hoped and hoped

that the score could be kept close in the bi

 

g games
and have been
content in the
infrecuent  1in-
stances when it
was kept close,
the
keleidescope of

glorious
current events
brings the hap-
that
to

piness
must come
the
who as the re-

blind man
sult of delicate
surgery again
And the
most marvel-
ous thing about
it all is that
it’s a 100 per
cent Washing-
ton and
achievement —
from the di-
of ath-
down to
trainer —
and who dares
deny that Red
Gilliamisa
true Washington and Lee man—everyone a Gen-
eral tried and true, and every man a _ gentleman.
There’s something great about that! Thirty-four
Washington and Lee football players battling week
after week under the direction of an all-alumni coach-
ing staff in a schedule arranged by a Washington and
Lee-trained director of athletics.
no one!

sees.

Lee

rector
letics
the

Back

Sharing victory with
Not winning with a system taught to a coach
in some other school! Home talent, and amazing re-
sults that twist the heart strings of every man who
ever crashed a show or thrilled at a glimpse of old Lib-
erty Hall nestling in the protecting firmness of the
shadow of House Mountain!

The New Deal is complete. In the office of the
alumni secretary an extra worker has been employed
to help handle the deluge of letters and telegrams that

se ee odes 5, |

shriek the happiness
of hundreds and
hundreds of former
students who want
tickets for the V. P.
I. game, want reser-
vations for Home-
coming, want de-
tails of unbelievable
victories, or merely
want to keep in
touch with Alma
Mater.

Many, many
alumni will return
to Lexington for
Homecoming Novy-
ember 11 when the
Generals meet the Cavaliers of the University of Vir-
ginia. Word already has been received from scores,
among them many former football stars. As a feature
of Homecoming the University has invited the cap-
tain or a representative from every Washington and
Lee football team in history. The first team was in
1873, and its only surviving member will be on hand.
So will players of yesteryear from as far off as Mis-
souri in the west and the Gulf in the south. These
former stars will sit on a bench on the field during the
game and will be presented to the crowd between
halves, at which time a number of campus organiza-
tions will offer entertainment of goodness knows what
sort.

And the stands at Wilson Field, day after day,
in sunshine and when the wind whistles, find them-
selves dotted with students, faculty, alumni, and towns-
people who by now have quit rubbing their eyes and
have that comfortable warm feeling inside when they
think of the games to come.

 

 

 

 

Bailey, Back

It’s the spirit of the team and the spirit of the
coaches. “Tex” Tilson, big of frame and big of heart,
grinning always; ever leading, never driving! “Cy”
Young, never still, never silent; world’s
greatest combination of man and boy!

Don Hostetter, booming, booming,
booming! Pat Mitchell, and Jerry
Holstein, stars of yesterday, earnest

and eager today! “Red” Gilliam, old
cope’n’jiva, hardiest perennial in the
garden of glory; same cap, same satch-
el, same sweater, same mumble-grum- .
ble-rumble! And Cap’n Dick, guar-
dian of the pursestrings, ever torn be- ©
tween a shattered budget and an eag-

Mattox, Back

[8]

I

    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
   
   
 

me VA MS. AA. 22. eee

erness to do some little something to make things me
comfortable for the boys.

These are the day-by-day figures on Wilson Fielg
These and the thirty-four football players who tie
West Virginia, lost to Yale before they got under way
came back to slaughter the Kentucky Wildcats, ar
then, with stout hearts, outgained, outpassed, and out
played Princeton only to see the tieing touchdown twic
disallowed in a football game which should have bee

the biggest upset of the Eastern football year.

It is difficult to paint a word picture of what k
turned out to be Washington and Lee spirit of tt
highest order, but two stories illustrate the point |
some extent.

Believing that the squad could be whipped ir
shape for the hard season ahead in a better fashion j
the players could be together all day long rather tha
just in practice periods in the ten days between tt
opening of practice and the opening of school, Cos
Tilson, Young, and Hostetter took their charges to
football camp at Nimrod Hall, Va. Here for ten dé
the players ate, talked, and dreamed football in a mout
tain atmosphere totally removed from the early-Se
tember desolation of Lexington.

The first thing that was done at the camp was_
put every player on an honor pledge. By the tert
of this pledge no Washington and Lee football m
was permitted to smoke, drink, or carouse. Bedtir
was specified for a certain hour, and meals were to
eaten regularly with no munching in between.

The pledge bore fruit,
for in an amazingly short
space of time the alumni
coaches found their men in
better physical condition
than has marked any Wash-
ington and Lee team of this
generation. The pledge was :
continued, and, for that mat- {
ter, still is in force. Not a=
man has broken it. a

    
    
 
   
  
  
   
     
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  

Grove, Tac €

  

 

Avast Back

Todd, Biss

     

,

 

 

 

= Hae a a ee oN msm -&: @ SZ fee
ee

The first two games of the season passed and then without telling anybody about the matter, had set his
came the meeting with William and Mary. Following alarm clock for a daybreak hour in order to get to
this game, Coach Tilson called his players together in Buena Vista, meet the train, and bring his boys back
the dressing room. to Lexington in time for breakfast before classes.

“Boys,” he said, “you’ve been on pledge ever since _ These stories don’t paint the picture but maybe
the fourth of September. You've practiced hard dur- they contribute color to it. With them are half a dozen
ing the week and you've played driving football on more: tales of two alumni who journeyed from Cin-
Saturdays. Just to ease up a bit and relieve the ten- cinnati to Roanoke for the Kenutcky game and rushed
sion, I’m saying to you that you may smoke if you from the field to the depot to catch a train that would
wish tonight and Sunday. Then back on the pledge bring them home in time for appointments Sunday ;
Monday.” and of another alumnus who telephoned all the way

“Tex” turned away to leave the room, but before from New Orleans just to talk to somebody at W.
he could take two steps he was arrested by a chorus and L,.; rumors of the New York alumni banquet and
of shouts such as, “We don’t want to smoke!” “We the spirit that was so evident among the former stu-
want to beat Yale!”’ ‘We don’t want to break train- dents now in the metropolis; sheaves of telegrams re-
ing!” ceived by team and coaches before and after each game.

To match: this team sentiment is a story coming It’s wonderful and it’s all true. No dream this.
from the game with Princeton. ‘The team was to re- A great varsity football team, and a great fresh-
turn to Lexington immediately after the game. In the man team to send along varsity players for next
dressing room “Tex” singled out four boys whose year. Hostetter coaches the freshmen, assisted by
homes are in or near New Jersey. To them he said, Mitchell and Holstein. And what fun they must be
“The rest of us go back tonight. You boys run home having, with a line much heavier than the varsity and
and spend Sunday with your folks and catch the night several backs of promise. In that line is one boy who
train so you'll be back for classes Monday.” tips the scales at what is reported anywhere from 275

This was done, and off the train at Buena Vista to 290; and conspicuous in the backfield a fullback
early Monday morning tumbled the four boys, ready who burned up the gridiron as the yearlings won from
to hook a ride or take a bus to Lexington, isolated Virginia and trounced William and Mary.
seven miles away because of unspeakable railroad con- Times indeed have changed. Everything is on
nections. the up and up. Joy reigns supreme because: ‘The

The bus may have been on hand, but the boys gladdest words from tongue or pen—happy days are
didn’t see it. Instead they found their coach who, here again!

TE |
PUNGENT PARAGRAPHS

W. and L. 0, West Virginia 0—Generals played ortho- W. and L. 0, Yale 14—Yale scored clean-cut victory...
dox defensive game throughout...Missed chance to score Generals’ running and passing attack weak...First score
when pass from Sawyers was way short as Arnold hid by Callan in second period after 60-yard drive. ..Second
out on old sideline play...Mattox intercepted three West touchdown by Fuller in third period after Arnold fumbled
Virginia passes to stem rallies... Generals outweighed 17 punt which was recovered by Yale on Generals’ 21-yard
pounds to the man. line.. C. Curtin converted both tries with placements.

W. and L. 14, Roanoke 6—Superior running attack and W. and L. 7, Kentucky 0—Generals’ victory an upset
Sturdier line brought victory...Roanoke recovered fumble Sawyers scored on shovel pass from Seaton after 94-
and passed to a touchdown . Sawyers scored on a flat vard march . Generals intercepted five passes to stop
Pass from Mattox... Arnold went over on a lateral from Kentucky threats ..Generals outrushed and _ outfought
Simmons . Mattox converted both tries with placements their favored opponents ..Wildcats unbeaten until this
‘ Interceptions and penalties halted Roanoke attack in game . Last year Kentucky won, 53-7.

Period. W. and L. 0, Princeton 6—Generals did better in every-

W. and L. 7, William and Mary 0—Sawyers’ 50-yard thing except score ..Sawyers’ touchdown that would have
Tunback of Indian punt paved way for score...Mattox tied and possibly beaten Princeton called back on tech-
“tossed the goal line in two delayed bucks . Touchdown nicality Kaufman scored in first period...Gary LeVan,
“ame five minutes after game started — Indians stopped brilliant sophomore back, stopped two certain Generals’
twice on Generals’ 4-yard line  Palese and Shade threat- touchdowns by breath-taking tackles . four phantom
“ned all during second half with runs and passes, touchdowns in game.

Fa

a. nS A Lb 2 Mm EH

M A GA Zi a

 

——

Basil Manly, 1906, a Biographical Sketch

By THE EpitTor

(Eprror’s Note—Biographical sketches similar to this one will be published as part of the editorial
program for the Magazine this year. Alumni of Washington and Lee distinguished in our current
and stirring times, will be presented to their fellow-alumni, representing figures of national unportance
in the field of public service. The editor would be interested in nominations for the subjects of this series)

Asi MANLY was born at Greenville, South Caro-
lina on March 14, 1880.

He was educated at the University of Missouri
and Washington and Lee University, (Phi Beta Kap-
pa, A.B., 1906) with post graduate work at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, 1909-10,
as a fellow in the department
of political science.

Mr. Manly came to Wash-
ington in 1908 as an expert
and economist for the United
States Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics. He conducted investi-
gations of child labor, the an-
thracite coal and glass indus-
tries and in 1912 made a

survey and report on wages -._ *

and working conditions in the
steel industry. This report,
accepted as an authoritative
work by leading economists
and students of the steel in-
dustry in Great Britain and
Germany, as well as in the
United States, contained the
first official recommendation
made to Congress for abolition
of the seven day week and the
twelve hour day.

From 1913 to 1915, Mr.
Manly served as Director of
the United States Commission
on Industrial Relations and wrote the Manly Report,
submitted to Congress by the chairman, as a basis for
far-reaching economic legislation during the first ad-
ministration of President Wilson. As Director of the
Commission, Mr. Manly was in charge of research and
investigation, conducting hearings and conferences at
which Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, J. P.
Morgan, Jacob Schiff, E. H. Gary, and other leading
industrialists and financiers were examined.

In 1915, Mr. Manly was selected by E. W. Scripps
to organize and establish an economic service for the
Scripps newspapers and the Newspaper Enterprise
Association. He accepted an assignment in 1917 from

oo

 

Basil Manly, 1906, of the Federal Power Com.

the United States Federal Trade Commission as chief —
economist in the investigation of the meat packing in-

dustry, writing the Commission’s summary report to ©

Congress in 1918.

President Wilson appointed him joint chairman
of the National War Labor —
Board in 1918. The late Chief
Justice Taft also served as
joint chairman of the Board,
joining with Mr. Manly in ~
numerous awards after con-
ducting hearings to avert
strikes and lockouts in essen-
tial industries.

In 1920, at the request of —
a group of Senators headed
by the late Senator Robert M.
LaFollette, Mr. Manly organ-
ized a legislative service at
Washington to furnish ex-
pert assistance to members of
Congress, regardless of party,
in dealing with economic
problems. During this service
he detected a provision in the
Revenue Bill of 1922 exempt-
ing foreign trading corpora-
tions from payment of income
taxes. After this provision
had been eliminated from the
bill, Senator Simmons, rank-
ing Democratic member of
the Finance Committee, stated Treasury actuaries esti-
mated its defeat had saved the government about
$300,000,000. |

In 1923, Mr. Manly accompanied Senator La-
Follette and his son to Europe to study cooperative
systems abroad and economic conditions in England,
France, Italy, Denmark, Russia and Germany.

Under his direction, the legislative service was
continuously active throughout the Coolidge adminis- ~
tration to prevent the destruction of the Federal Trade-
and Tariff Commissions. Mr. Manly appeared before —
the Tariff Commission to challenge the right of Com-
missioner Glassie to sit in the sugar case, resulting im

[ 10.]

 

H’- 5B A bp HM N

T

——

the adoption of an act prohibiting the payment of salary
to any Tariff Commissioner participating in any case
in which he had a pecuniary interest.

In 1925, President Coolidge sent the nomination
of Charles B. Warren for Attorney General to the
Senate. While the nomination was pending before
the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Manly obtained and made
public the record of Warren’s connection with the
Sugar Trust and with companies then subject to prose-
cution by the Department of Justice. This record was
adopted by Senators Thomas J. Walsh and James A.
Reed as the basis of their report from the Committee
against confirmation.

In 1924, Mr. Manly instigated an inquiry into the
$3,000,000,000 bread monopoly, forcing action by the
Federal Trade Commission in 1925 and a Senate in-
vestigation in 1927. This blocked the Proposed War
merger.

A group of liberal Democratic newspapers, in 1927,

joined in requesting Mr. Manly to render a special

service consisting of articles on current economic topics.
During the two years he engaged in this work he con-
tributed regularly to the Omaha World Herald, the
Louisville Courier Journal, the Milwaukee Journal, the
Brooklyn Eagle, the New York Evening World, the
Birmingham News, the Atlanta Constitution, the New
Orleans /tem, the Nashville Banner, the Newark News,
the Des Moines Register, and other leading newspapers.

In January, 1928, he visited the Pennsylvania coal
fields and wrote a series of articles on the coal strike
of that year. This series was published in the Con-
gressional Record at the request of Senator Hiram
Johnson, who referred to Mr. Manly on the Senate
floor as ‘“‘an able, honest and impartial economist.”
Senator Johnson based his demand for an investiga-
tion on the findings reported in this series. A com-
plete digest of the articles was reproduced in the Liter-
ary Digest and in the Manchester (England) Guardian.

On February 11, 1932, Mr. Manly furnished his
dispatch tracing the Teapot Dome oil bonds held by
Harry F. Sinclair to the payment of the 1920 cam-
paign deficit of the Republican National Committee.
This was an exclusive article based on the writer's
Single-handed investigations at Washington and New
York, working independently of the Senate Commit-
tee. As a direct result of this dispatch, subsequently
confirmed in every detail at the Senate hearings, Will
H. Hays, Andrew W. Mellon and other important
witnesses were summoned to appear before the Com-
mittee.

In the course of his career, Mr. Manly has fre-
(uently dealt with public utility and power problems,
both in an official capacity and as an economist. In

I

[11 |

| ae: Sa ee, ee ee.

1918-19, he conducted hearings in the principal cities
of the country with Joint Chairman Taft, making many
awards based on inquiry into the profits, wages and
working conditions of public utility companies. In
1928 he made a survey of the Muscle Shoals plant and
other public power projects.

Mr. Manly initiated and organized the National
Conference on Valuation held at Chicago in May, 1923,
in which many Governors, United States Senators,
Representatives and public utility engineers participated.
As a result of this conference a permanent organiza-
tion was affected and Donald R. Richberg was retained
as counsel to defend the public interest in the considera-
tion of the O’Fallon case and other valuation proceed-
ings before the Interstate Commerce Commission and
the Supreme Court.

In recognition of his knowledge and experience
in the power and public utility field, Mr. Manly was
tendered appointment in January, 1931, as Chairman
of the Utilities Corporation of the State of Wisconsin
charged with the regulation of power and public utility
companies and the development of the State’s power
program.

Declining this appointment, Mr. Manly became the
Washington representative of the Power Authority
of the State of New York, participating from their
inception in the negotiations with the State Depart-
ment and Congress, in connection with the St. Lawrence
Treaty. He was an important factor in obtaining an
agreement between the Power Authority and the Fed-
eral authorities under which all the water power al-
located to the United States on the St. Lawrence under
the treaty will be developed at low cost as a public
project.

On June 9, 1933, President Roosevelt appointed
Mr. Manly a member of the Federal Power Commis-
sion for a term of five years. This appointment was
confirmed without opposition on June 10, 1933. .

 

The Summer Magazine

AMONG many pleasant comments upon the summer
number of the Alumni Magazine, very encouraging to
all, the most unusual were a review and a digest sent
by the Natural Bridge correspondent to the Rockbridge
County News. Picturesque items of particular inter-
est to Rockbridgians were picked out. There was evi-
dence in this that Rockbridge County sends out to all
parts of the earth, men who represent their locality
and Washington and Lee in the achievement of varied
and interesting objects of living.

A... 8.8. MN

Class-agents for 1933-34

The 1933 Alumni Campaign will be re-inaugurated for
the year 1934 on February Ist. Campaign is an inexplicit,
a clumsy unsatisfactory name for it. On February Ist we
will take up again the slackened effort that, in all propriety
and necessity, must follow any intensive, scheduled pro-
gram. The class-agents will at that time get into touch
with the members of their classes and again 7,000 alumni
will know that Washington and Lee is counting upon their
support, and counts upon it with modest but sustained
hopes. No large amount of money will be asked. Only
small amounts from many men and a round-of-letters,
from friends to friends, are the simple objectives of this
awakened interest among the alumni. The men who will
act for the University, as channels through which these
varied forms of active interest flow, are the very generous
and genuinely interested men listed here. Will you not
please, as you read this, see who your class-agent is and
allow, in your feeling toward this campaign, an approach
that will match in generosity his own feeling toward it?

1932—Henry W. MacKenzi& and ALLEN S. Carr,
Building and Loan Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1931—Wattrer E. HorrmMan, Seaboard Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

1930—Hersert G. JAnNcKE, 1807 Calhoun St., New
Orleans, La.

1929—Lewis F. Powe tt, Jr., Atlantic Life Bldg.,
Richmond, Va.

1928—Rosert F. Hows, Walton Rice Mill, Inc., Stutt-
gart, Ark.

1927—-Zrsn H. Hernvon, McDowell Company Bank
Bldg., Welch, West Va.

1926—Basit G. Warxrns, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg,
Virginia.

1925—Joun Cooper Morrison, Jr., Kanawha Valley
Bank Bldg., Charleston, West Va.

1924—-W. GoopripcE SALE, JrR., Sale, St. Clair & Sale,
Welch, West Va.

192% —Douctas P. Winco, 1012 Crawford Bldg., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

1922—Ropert M. Bear, Department of Education,
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.

1921—T'uomas X. Parsons, Colonial-American Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

1920—R. M. CaBELL, Covington, Va.

1919—L. T. Brown, Lott-Merlin, Inc., Bridgeport,
Connecticut.

-1918—Joun L. McCuorp, 308 Euclid Ave., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

1917—Wiu1am J. Cox, Department of Engineering
Mechanics, Sheffield Scientific School, Yale Uni-
versity, New Haven, Conn.

1916—Bruce F. Wooprurr, Trust Company of Geor-
gia Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

[ 12 ]

M4 -G A. 2 33

   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  

1915—K1 Wittrams, Waynesboro, Va.
1914—CLARENCE W. SaceEr, 26 Broadway, New Yo
1913—Benyamin F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg.
Cleveland, Ohio. .
1912—Wittiam A. Hyman, 100 William St., Ney
York City.
1911—A. Dana Hopcpon, Department of Stat
Washington, D. C. ’
1910—LaurencE C. Wirren, Union Trust Bldg,
Cincinnati, Ohio. |
1909—Dr. Jounn WitiiaMm Craupy, Rockview Prise
Farm, R.F.D. 3, Bellefonte, Penn.
1908—Dozirr A. DEVANE, 744 Jackson Place, N.W.
Washington, D. C.
1907—W. L. Lorp, Woodberry Forest School, Wooc
berry Forest, Va.
1906—L. Prettow Hottanp, Suffolk National Ban
Bldg., Suffolk, Va. 4
1905—R. A. LapsLey, Jr., Virginia Ave., Roanoke, Vi
1904—Grorcr E. Haw, 403 Travelers Bldg., Riek
mond, Va. 7
1903—Rev. J. M. B. Gitt, St. Paul’s Rectory, Pete
burg, Va. |
1902—Dr. Wittram A tan, Medical Bldg., Che
lotte, N. C.
1901—Marrurew Pace Anprews, 849 Park Ave
Baltimore, Md.
1900—Hirton S. Hampron, Citizens Bank Bldg
Tampa, Fla.
1899—Harry St. G. T. CarmicHakEL, Kyrock, K
1898—Davip Barctay, Cairo Hotel, Washington, D.
1897—F. Prerrre Hamirron, 408 Walnut St., Ne
Orleans, La.
1896—Srocxton Hretu Tyrer, Seaboard Bank Bldg
Norfolk, Va.
1895—Hersert Boutpin Hawes, Spout Spring, Va.
1894—James N. Veecu, 3907 Frankfort Ave., Lo i
ville, Ky.
1893—Lon H. Ketty, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg
Charleston, West Va. |
1892—W. Rrynotps VaANcE, Yale Law School, N
Haven, Conn. 1
1891—Joun M. Granam, National City Bank ¢
Rome, Rome, Ga.
1890—Dran Douctas ANbErRSON, Tulane Universi
New Orleans, La.

Classes from 1889 through 1868 will have as their clas
agent, the Alumni Secretary, who will keep in touch wi
them himself by personal letters.

 

 

= HH & et ee Se ee ew & G a. 2 2 mM FF
——
Class-Agents’ Letters
1932 the 12th of this month to Louise Daniel at Tupelo,
Henry W. McKenziz anp ALLEN S. Carr, Miss., and Van Gilbert is to be a groomsman. Gus

Building and Loan Bldg., Portsmouth, Va. “After
the summer issue of the Alumni Magazine had been
circulated, I received a number of letters from mem-
bers of our class expressing their appreciation to all
concerned for the record of the whereabouts and do-
ings of the scattered individuals in our outfit.

“Included in the correspondence was a sizzling
epistle from Charlie Wood (Hollywood) wherein he
threatened the organization of Carr & MacKenzie, in-
dividually and collectively, with eradication, arson,
murder, and other forms of intentional bodily aggres-
sion for allowing that choice tidbit he wrote us to go
into print. At least, he told us that is what would
happen if he caught us in the state of West Virginia.
We gather from that, however, that Lexington on
Homecoming Day will be neutral ground, and we are
looking forward to investigating with him the relative
merits of the in and outdoor sports mentioned by him
in the much-controverted letter.

‘ | had a great letter from ‘Snake’ McKinney
(address: 1100 Prospect Ave., Little Rock, Ark.)
which I wish I could incorporate in full. He has
plenty of feeling left for the old Institution. He is
now a cub reporter on the Arkansas Gazette, and is
all for the NRA which recently put him on a 40-hour
week instead of the 1 p. m. to midnight six-days-a-
week schedule he formerly worked.

‘Mal Forsythe (address: Battles & Co., 1518 Lo-
cust St., Philadelphia, Pa.) has embarked into the in-
vestment securities business, and says that the public
is not investing right at the present time. (The public
isn’t litigating much, either.) But he is optimistic like
the rest of us. |

“Herbert Dollahite seems to be making a go of the
hotel business in Amory, Miss., but he, too, is looking
for NRA help on the hours proposition. His letter is
brimming with news, so I will quote a part of it:

“ “William Watson Jr., 1929, Delta Tau Delta,
will sail from San Francisco the 25th (September)
for Shanghai and join William Harrington Jr., in a law
firm there. Charles Hamilton Jr., Phi Kappa Psi, is
down in Happy Jack, La., with some trust company.
William MacDonald, Kappa Sig, who was at W. and
L. only for one session—the fall of 1930—has re-
cently been made head coach at Memphis University
School. Baylis Hightower, S. A. E., who was a frosh
at Washington and Lee, 1928-1929, will be married

Berry will no doubt be present for the ceremony there
also, and I will be there without fail . . . Guess Harry
L. Williams Jr., over in Columbus, Ga., will soon be
married to a Miss Hyatt of Columbus. I had a letter
recently from him and his plans are as yet indefinite,
but I think he will crash through a married man dur-
ing this full moontime! Henry Sherwood, 1932, spent
all last year in Europe and this summer has been in a
camp in New Jersey at Newton, but is now back at
105 Park Ave., East Orange, N. J. Dick Hall is now
with the Aetna Insurance folks in New York City.
Dick Spohr was also at the New Jersey camp with
Sherwood.’

“Ross Malone made enough money out of his law
practice to go to the World’s Fair. He says: ‘I’ve been
getting along quite well, considering all things. I have
become affiliated with the firm of Hurd & Crile here
in Roswell. Mr. Hurd is a graduate of Columbia and
Herman Crile went to W. and L. He played left half
on the team on which Cy Young was right half, and
is a prince of a fellow. Since being over here, I have
gotten a great deal of trial experience and my business
has picked up considerably. . . . I stopped in Dallas on
my return from Chicago and had a visit with Dick
Beaton. He seems to be doing very well. He cer-
tainly is hooked up with an affluent looking firm, to say
the least. He arranged a little ‘farm party’ for us. ...
(and the rest is censored a la Charley Wood, so the
class of 1932 can call upon its imagination) .. . Saw
George McClure in Dallas. I also saw Harris Cox
who has a darned good job with a geo-physical sur-
veying outfit which makes initial tests for oil companies.
They operate all over this continent and ‘Cockey’ is
doing plenty of travelling.’ |

“Gerry Holden, 1931, took the fatal step about a
month ago, and he and the Mrs. are now making their
home in Mt. Vernon, N. Y., where Gerry is connected
with the Maryland Casualty Co.

“George Thames, who entered school with us and
stayed two years, is now bringing up the rear in the
law firm of Rogers, Hazard & Thames in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

“This is about all the news at our disposal. Dibbs
Carr, who is responsible for half of this ‘outrage on
the King’s English,’ and I still have our door open
as per the letterhead, and while we haven’t started
salting away the first million, we are having a pretty
good time at it. To those members of our law class

[ 13 ]

eo. 28 o2 a be Moon

I

  

ae, ee ae, ee “ees

 

who are making more money than we are, our hats go
off ; to those who are making less, this firm handles
bankruptcy work.

“There are lots of letters we haven’t answered,
because it is pretty hard to get around to so many.
Nevertheless, we would appreciate letters from every-
body in the class, telling what they are doing and the
news they know, so we can transmit it by this medium
to everybody else.

“Best of luck to everybody,

“Henry MAcKEnNZIE.

“P. S. The Eastern Virginia contingent got a
great kick out of the neat way Amos Bolen and his
crew took the sons of the soil from William and Mary.”

1931

Wa ter E. HorrMan, Seaboard Bank Building,
Norfolk, Va. “As class-agent for the Class of 1931
all that I can report is that I feel sure that our class
is more closely united than ever since our gradu-
ation—and the reason is the Alumni drive of last
spring.

“The Class of 1931 did itself proud in the Alumni
drive of last spring. The list of contributors was
among the highest, if not the highest, of all the classes
and this does not include the many letters received
from members of the class who were not in a position
to aid financially. Every now and then a letter drifts
into the office from some loyal and faithful alumnus
and only about a month ago, old “Tibby’ of football
fame kicked through with a contribution.

“T am sure that all of 1931 are gratified to see the
results of this year’s football games, and no doubt
many of our class will be present at Homecoming
when W. and L. beats Virginia. We hope to get a
block of tickets together and hold some extra special
seats for the 1931 rooters.

“T am still looking forward to some word from
those members of the class who did not answer my
letter. Let this message act as an appeal to those
members of the Class from whom I have not received
any word. Should there be any change of address,
pleace notify the Alumni Office, it is vitally important
that our records be kept correct.”

1929

Lewis F. Powe tt, Atlantic Life Building, Rich-
mond, Va. “As for news about the Class of 1929, I
regretfully report that my classmates have all stopped
writing to me since my efforts of last spring, to raise
money from them; and since I am the only member
of the 1929 class in the City of Richmond, my chief
source of contact is by correspondence.

[ 14 ]

 
  
    
  
      
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   

‘““However, a few bits of news have leaked jy
from various sources, the truth of which I do no
verify, but which I will pass on to you for whatever
use you see fit. Bob Bacon, one of the innumerable
Mobile boys in our class, is reliably reported to be
upon the verge of matrimony, having announced
engagement. In proposing to take this step, Bob fol-
lows the example of Jim Rainer, Tom Taylor,
perhaps others of Mobile. And speaking of our Mobi
classmates, I heard with regret that Billy Lott y
rather badly banged up in an automobile accident
summer. 7

“T attended the World’s Fair at Chicago, during
the month of June, and in addition to seeing, and pla
ing around with, Hooch Gowen and Jack Smith (who,
unfortunately for them, are not members of the Class
of 1929), I also found Bill Black of Memphis. Bil]
was discovered in that part of the fair known as tk
‘Streets of Paris,’ although he assured me that d
ing the daytime he attended Medical School. He ¢
told me that Harry Godwin was operating a coupl
of filling stations in Chicago and still living happil
with his wife, in spite of the fact that Hooch Gowen i
alleged to have accompanied them on their honeymoon

Lilt

“Gossip from New York leads me to believe
George Lanier is no longer in love; that Toot Gibson
in addition to running a bank, finds time to attend lay
school at night. That Bill Owen (who belongs botk
to the Classes of 1928 and 1929) is continuing to de
well with the New York Telephone Company ; and tha
all of the boys there are looking forward to the Yale
and Princeton game with Washington and Lee. |

“Tom Fitzhugh, who used to keep me from study-
ing when I was in Law School, should be listed among
the ‘Missing Alumni, in my opinion. Last spring,
when the Alumni campaign was on, I addressed thre
letters and a postcard to his last known address, whict
is Fitzhugh, Arkansas, without success. Prior to
time, I had made other attempts at correspondence
If Allen Morgan of Memphis, had not reported having
seen Fitzhugh alive rather recently, I would perhaps
be uneasy. It may be that the U. S. mails no longe
run to the old State of Arkansas.

“Speaking for myself, the thing which is fore
most in my own mind at the present moment is 0
1933 football team. Regardless of what it may do if
the Yale game, I am confident that we have our bes
team since 1925. Other teams may have been equé
to the present one physically, but the spirit which
manifest in the game which I saw against William and
Mary last Saturday was superb. We should have a
grand Homecoming Day on November 11th, at the
Virginia game, and I advise the men of our class who

.

7, H E A 2 DMN

—

bet, and lost, their allowances on the Virginia games of
1926, 1927, and 1928, to return to Lexington this No-
vember and recoup their fortunes. We are sure to
win, I believe.”

1927

7xep HERNDON, Welch, W. Va. ‘There was a
very limited reply from you fellows, and it is believed
by your class-agent that most of the cause is attrib-
utable to the fact that the letters mailed to many of you
never reached you. If you are one of the two hun-
dred or so who have made no reply, you may con-
sider this as a personal invitation to drop your class-
agent a line on what you are doing and how mail can
reach you.”

1926

Basi. Warkrns, Krise Building, Lynchburg, Va.
“To those of you who responded by a contribution or
otherwise to the campaign of last spring, I wish to ex-
press my personal appreciation. To those who did not
take that opportunity of renewing their contact with
their Alma Mater, I wish to urge you to do so even now.

“Most of you are not so fortunately situated that
you, like some of us, revisit the scenes of your college
days, renew the old ties, and catch again the inspiration
of the place. Personally, to me it is a priceless privi-
lege.

‘All of you can, however, in a measure, have the
opportunity of renewing these contacts, through the
new system which the Alumni organization has set up,
which has heretofore been fully explained. Let me
urge you, and each of you, to write me a letter about
yourself which would be of interest to other members
of the class, and give me such personal news of other
members of the class as you may happen to have. In
this way, I can collect these news items and give them
publicity through the magazine.

“T was in Lexington last Saturday to the game
between W. and L. and William and Mary. It was a
real treat. It reminded me of the teams from 1923 to
1926 when Tex himself was playing, that carried off
the state Championship three years in succession. Tex
and Cy are doing a real job, and those boys have the
Winning spirit. It is a source of genuine pride to see a
team that does justice to the name ‘Generals’ again.

“Let’s get behind the team, the coaches, and the
University and show them our appreciation by our
whole-hearted loyalty and support, and especially some
expressions of our pride in them.”

1923
“StTuDENT”’ Frew, Rutherfordton-Spindale Schools,
Rutherfordton, N. C. “Listen, ’23, do you remember
back in 1919 about this time? We were just getting

I

So 2 S&S ae 2 Se ee

to know our way around. We were just beginning
to feel enough at home to realize that we were a part
of W. and L. Do you remember how your chest swelled
just a little at that realization? A little later the foot-
ball team knocked off Georgia Tech 3-0 and we all
wrote to everyone we knew, boasting of it.

“Then, four years later, we returned with that
same feeling of pride that we were a part of W. and L.
We felt a little more responsibility, too, because we
were seniors and supposed to set the pace for others
to follow. We wondered just a little how the Univers-
ity would get along after we left, didn’t we?

‘We've been out a long time and the toughest part
is losing contact with so many friends. It is hardly
possible that all of us can return at any one time. Let's
give each other a break and drop a line about ourselves
to the Alumni Office. We can at least renew our

friendships through the Magazine.
“Come on. Let’s hear from each

other.”’

Loosen up.

1922

Rosert M. (Cussy) Berar, Department of Edu-
cation, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. “This class-
agent was persuaded to undertake the work in part
because he thought it offered a chance to get in touch
with the reviving class friendships and university con-
tacts being fostered by the new plan of alumni activity.
And he had the belief that others had similar desires
of capturing or retaining some of what we knew and
felt eleven years ago at Lexington.

“Because for better or for worse we are members
of the illustrious Washington and Lee class of 1922—a
good class—a class with a grade A undergraduate his-
tory. But classes aren’t judged by their undergraduate
record. ‘Taking the Alumni Magazine, an occasional
line about ourselves, attendance at reunions are some
of the more obvious marks of class solidarity. It is
every man’s responsibility to see that 1922 distinguishes
itself as being an active, appreciative, enthusiastic W.
and L. class.

‘What about a line on a postcard for the next Mag-
azine from some of you captains of industry, states-
men or politicians, the beleaguered “‘white collar class”
and gentleman farmers, so the rest of us will know
what you are doing from day to day?”

1920
RAN CaBELL, Covington, Va. “We of the class
of 1920 who entered Washington and Lee so soon
after the difficult year of 1914, and passing through
the hectic period of the World War, graduated to meet
the discouraging conditions of 1921, must feel pleased
that the University has apparently come through the

[ 15 ]

oe a bh Bt BON

recent economic stress, though heavily burdened, yet
without major difficulties.

“It now devolves on us, the alumni, to do our
small part to help the institution go forward with ever-
widening influence to years of greater usefulness and
service.”

1919

Leonarp T. Brown, 700 West Jackson Ave.,
Bridgeport, Conn.

“To the Class of 1919: As your class-agent, it is
my ambition to have at least a sketchy history of the
activities of every man who graduated, or was asso-
ciated with the Class of 1919.

“Some of you have already forwarded this to me,
but I want to hear from you all as soon as possible
so that this important information can be given in turn,
to your friends who wish to know of you and what
you have been doing.

“Incidentally, how many of the members of this
class realize that we celebrate our 15th Class Reunion
in Lexington, June 1934?

‘“Let’s plan now to meet at that time! Not too
early to think about it. Let’s make this reunion bigger
and better than Lexington has ever witnessed, (more
about this later, members).

“In the meantime, send along the report of your
Past and Present so that it may appear in the next
issue of the Alumni Magazine.”

1918

Joun L. McCuorp, 308 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio. “The current economic cyclone made it im-
possible for many of us to get back for our fifteenth
reunion in June; however, I could not resist the temp-
tation to stop by Lexington on my honeymoon. Col.
Shoun held the ring and smelling salts for me. Sen-
ator Kern adjourned his court in Indianapolis but fell
in with bad company and did not arrive in Atlanta
for the wedding.

“Time has dealt very gently with the people in
Lexington. Miss Annie White is as keen and bright
as ever, and still de facto President of the college.
Jack Campbell was standing in exactly the same spot
in front of McCrums, and Miss Mary Barclay was as
charming as ever, in spite of a bad cold. Met Matt
Paxton with an arm full of children, taking them to
Reid White, now a distinguished doctor and very dig-
nified, for whooping cough inoculations.

“One of our classmates, who had borrowed ten
dollars, wrote me from Portland, Oregon. He did not
enclose the ten dollars, but he did enclose a clipping
from a magazine which stated that Adolph Marks,
now a big mercantile tycoon in Lake Charles, La.,
had been to Lexington in March.

[ 16 ]

I

   

mS A .G mR | 2 oe

    
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    

7
1

“Start saving your pennies and maybe we can

have that delayed reunion next June. |
“Yours,

“JoHn L. McCworp.”

1914

CLARENCE L. SAGER, 26 Broadway, New York
City. “The old 1914 Calyx, with its blue and white
binding, yields a pleasant half hour every now and then
to all of us whose likenesses grace the pages of that
slightly stained volume. The enjoyment of each of
us, however, is always coupled with the same desire to
know what has happened to the other man.

“We are spread over the face of the world. Start-
ing with John Wayland in China and traveling west-
ward we find Stephen Chadwick in Seattle, Washing-
ton. Scattered between those points are nearly one
hundred and fifty other men of 1914. One of us,
Francis Miller, whose prominence and influence make
him outstanding not only among 1914 men, but among
all Washington and Lee alumni, literally spans
globe from time to time in his travels.

1¢

   
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  

“There is one medium through which our line
of communication can be kept open and by means of
which our desire to know what the man is doing can be
satisfied. That medium is the Alumni Magazine
Throw modesty to the winds, write Cy Young or me
and talk right out about yourself. Tell us what yot
are doing, where you live and why. You will be talk-
ing among friends and they want to know.” |

1912 .

Wan. A. Hyman, 100 William Street, New York
City. “To the Class of 1912: May I take this oppor-
tunity of thanking each member of the Class of 1912
for the contributions made by them and for the excel-
lent cooperation given to the Alumni Association. |

“While the number of contributors was not quite
up to that expected, this was more than compensated
by the loyalty demonstrated by those who were not in a
position to make any financial contribution. Even
though there was a financial handicap, it was encourag-
ing to receive letters from various members of the class
reflecting their continued interest in the welfare of old
W. and L. and their desire to help at such a time when
their own personal situation will enable them to do so.

“Wonderful work has been done in this new work
by Walter A. McDonald, president and Cy Young,
secretary of the Alumni, Inc., whose optimism, effic-
iency and altruism have helped achieve the results ob-
tained in this drive. They have assured me that they’
are deeply indebted for the cooperation and wonderful
spirit demonstrated by the Alumni, amongst whom

 

7, H E A 2 BM.

———

the Class of 1912 ranks highly, and they are looking
forward to still greater results in the assurance that
the loyalty and cooperation heretofore given by our
Class will be continued.

“At the present time it may appear a little pre-
mature to call attention to any possible financial crisis
or situation that might arise in the future. I believe,
however, that we would be serving our purposes best
if, in anticipation of the need for further help, each
of us made some preparation at the present time for the
rendering of some financial aid to the Alumni, Inc., and
to W. and L.

“Taxes are burdensome and numerous and have
always been so held. Nevertheless, if we could add
to our budget a self-imposed tax of 4% or 1% asa
minimum, laying aside this small sum every month, it
would then be a comparatively easy matter to make a
much more substantial contribution in any future cam-
paign or drive that might develop. Merely a thought
that I want to pass on to you without any pride in
possession of opinion, and if it does not meet with your
approval, and if you have any plan that will prove
easier to adopt and accomplish will you be kind enough
to advise me.

“It is undoubtedly unnecessary to comment on the
tremendous debt we all owe W. and L., not merely for
scholastic and academic training, but for the inspira-
tion towards higher ideals with which all W. and L.
men are imbued. May I add just one word in this re-
gard—W. and L., as we all know, depends upon its
Alumni more than upon any other source of assist-
ance and cooperation. In the crisis during which we
have been passing, the hardworking and _ sacrificing
officers of our Alumni organization have called upon
the Alumni more than ever to stand by.

“I am sure that the Class of 1912 will not be deaf
to that call, nor fail to answer during these trying
times. Sacrifices may be involved, but those are not
uncommon to W. and L,. men who always have been
willing to make proper sacrifices for the attainment of
their ideals.

“This is not a sermon and I hope that I have
not made it sound as such. It is nothing more or less
than a matter of fair play to which we all subscribed
when we entered old W. and L. The opportunity to in-
dicate our unquestionable appreciation of all that W.
and |,. has meant to everyone who left its campus is
now given us. Let us make the most of this oppor-
tunity.”

1910
LAURENCE C. Wirren, Union Trust Bldg., Cin-
cinnati, Ohio. ‘Can anyone read the special report of
the Alumni Campaign in the Alumni Magazine for the

I

-. mS & Bh 42 | HS

summer of 1933 and fail to again get the old thrill in
Alma Mater that is known only to true sons of Wash-
ington and Lee?

“The chances are that I am just a plain, ordinary
nut about W. and L,., but I certainly have had a lot of
fun out of being one. There is nothing in my whole
life, except my two boys, that keeps me so young as
my interest in Washington and Lee. If I fail to get
a football score the night after the game, I am in a
frenzy until I can get hold of a paper.

“Yes, I suppose that is just being a nut. Never-
theless, it has paid me some awfully good dividends in
enjoyment, satisfaction, happiness, and friendship.

“Come on, all of you Naught-Tenners who haven't
been quite so active of late, with the old gang get back
into the game, and meet with me when we play Virginia
at Lexington, November 11th. I am certain all of you
others who have been sticking around on every other
occasion will be there.

‘We have an immense opportunity to do the need-
ful for old W. and L. Let’s get together and stick
together !

“Yours in the bonds of old Stickeri-bum!

LAURENCE”

1907
W. L. Lorp, Woodberry Forest School, Wood-
berry Forest, Va. .

‘To the Class of 1907: We have 180 boys here
at Woodberry Forest School, and it is my job to try
to drum a little Algebra into their heads. This is quite
a job, too, but I am not too busy to read some newsy
letters from some of the Old Boys of the good old
days at W. and L. Won't you give me that pleasure?
Some of you fellows that were too bashful to write
during the campaign last spring can let me hear from
you now, and I will pass the news on to our class-
mates. Let’s keep the ball rolling.

“I saw Dr. Gaines the other day, when he came
to visit one of his sons who is in school here. He was
very enthusiastic over the fine enrollment at W. and L.
this fall, and (incidentally, of course) over the splen-
did showing of the Big Blue team against West Vir-
ginia.

“Don’t forget those letters you are going to write
me, giving me some news about yourselves.”

1906
L. Prertow HoLtranp, Suffolk National Bank
Bldg., Suffolk, Va. “There are still four football
games on the Washington and Lee schedule. Go to
all of these games if you can. If you can’t, go to the
ones which are played nearest to your home town.
Take your wives and children with you and back your

[ 17 ]

oe oe 2.2 BM an

team with the spirit with which we used to back it in
the ‘good ole days’ when we were at college. It will
help the team. It will help you. It will renew within
you your old spirit of enthusiasm for the University
and your team, and will create the same spirit in the
minds and hearts of your wife and children. ‘This
spirit, if properly fostered and encouraged by you, will
grow with the years and furnish an increasing band of
rooters for the Blue and White.”

1904
GrorcE E. Haw, Travelers Building, Richmond,
Va. “To the Class of 1904: You may not look it,
nevertheless, it has been thirty-three years since you
and I as freshmen first trod the historic campus and
halls of Washington and Lee. For four years we
played our respective parts in the life of the old Col-
lege and regardless of pleasures and disappointments,
successes and failures, went out to our appointed tasks
with a background of training and ideals which could

only be gotten at W. and L.

“Perchance the years have dimmed the spirit you
displayed in the class room and on the athletic fields,
but I am willing to bet the same old fire is there.

“Our problem is to blow that smouldering fire into
a living flame which will warm the heart of our Alma
Mater.

“Tt is not money we ask for but interest. Show
yours by writing to me as your class-agent. Tell me
of your successes and disappointments. Tell me what
you are doing. All of the boys wish to hear from you.
Be a sport and help to revive the spirit for which the
old class was famed!”

1903
J. M. B. Giri, Saint Paul’s Church, Petersburg,
Va. “To the members of the Class of 1903: Here,
There and Everywhere.

“Dear Fellows: Our Alumni Secretary, Cy Young,
has laid down the law, so I am greeting you all as your
class-agent for the Alumni Fund this year.

“Tt has been a long time (thirty years) since I have
been in touch with any of you, but please believe that
this does not mean that you have dropped into the
limbo of things forgotten with me.

“Washington and Lee has grown much larger in
these years, and we have grown much older; but one
of the compensations of increasing years is a deepening
appreciation of old associations, therefore I am certain
of striking a responsive chord in your heart when re-
minding you of those years when the ‘affairs of the
Campus’ were the dominant interest in our lives. I
hope that with you, as with me, this interest still burns

I

M A G@ A. 2 1. hae

bright. Then W. and L. was doing her best for us, now
you and I must think of what we may be able to do for
her—but more of this later.

“It would be very good indeed to know how the
years have treated you all, and maybe in the correspond-
ence I shall have with you later this wish may be ful-
filled. |
‘“‘My own experience has been a rather varied one;
spent the three years following my departure from
W. and L. most happily at the Virginia Theological
Seminary near Alexandria, Va., then two years in
charge of a church in Portsmouth, Va.; then fifteen
years as a missionary in China, years punctured by
famines, floods, revolutions and rebellions, and filled
with most interesting work; for the last ten years I
have been Rector of St. Paul’s Church in my native
city of Petersburg, Va.

“Washington and Lee grows yearly in my estima-
tion and affection, and I welcome this opportunity of
serving her interests as your class-agent. I look to
the love you bear the University for cooperation in
helping her in some measure to bear her burden. Be
patient with me when you receive my more personal
attention.”

1901

MatrHew Pack AnpDREws, 849 Park Ave., Balti-
more, Md. “Judging from the West Virginia game,
one would hazard a guess that ‘Tex’ Tilson, recent
alumnus de luxe, is going to revive the best W. L. U.
traditions. And what a fine thing it is to have as coach
a former student and football star! ‘That is what the
more conservative ‘old grads’ like to see—those of
1901 and 1902, for instance.

“In those days the student captain was also coach
and trainer! Under the circumstances, baseball did—
well; but without a coach, such football teams as we
used to have! Each player ran more or less on his’
own and the enemy tacklers grabbed the most conspic-
uous, who was, apparently, always the man carrying
the ball, whether in front or behind what should have
been his interference! What excitement there was in
1901, or thereabouts, when, after raising in mid-season
the vast sum of two hundred dollars, the famous ‘Dog-
gie’ Trenchard was engaged! What miracles were
expected as we looked on the mighty man of brawn!
But ‘Doggie’, being built on the order of the baseball
slugger, Hack Wilson, liked taking the ball himself
and defying everybody (bystanders included) on the
field to bring him down. It was great fun for ‘Doggie’,
but very little help for the team. The only score I re-
call after his arrival was W. L. U., 0, and some insti-
tution nearby whose name I won’t mention, 63—or
thereabouts !”’ |

[ 18 ]

 

 

7, H E A 2 UMN

—

1899

Harry CARMICHAEL, Kyrock, Ky. “To the Class
of 1899: Fellows, I hope you enjoyed the Alumni Cam-
paign as much as I did. It was a real privilege to act
as agent for our class and a real joy to get in touch
with you ‘Boys’ again. The Campaign, as a whole,
was a great success from every angle and we owe its
sponsor, Walter A. McDonald, an eternal debt of
gratitude for his work in gathering back into the fold
the most loyal but the most scattered organization in
the country.

“Of course, this task has involved the usual amount
of hard work, disappointments, etc., but as a whole,
our class responded promptly, cordially and liberally
and now that we have again ‘found each other’ after
a separation of thirty-four years, it is to be hoped
that in future we will keep in closer touch and, as a
unit, do everything in our power toward cooperating
with the rejuvenated Alumni Association, which has in
fact taken on new life, and from now on is destined to
exert a powerful influence in the affairs of our Alma
Mater.

“Admittedly, we have been very remiss in our
duty but acknowledging our shortcomings, we must
make up for lost time, rally around the able leadership
of that matchless leader, Walter A. McDonald and
pledge to Washington and Lee, Dr. Gaines and Walter
our full support and cooperation in all matters pertain-
ing to the advancement of Washington and Lee.

“The records show our class, as originally in-
cluding 53 members but only 37 names were submitted
to me, as living members, whose addresses were known.
All of these I wrote personal letters, once, twice, and
even three times. Three members, Judge Thos. Frank-
lin West, Justice of the Supreme Court of Florida;
W. C. Hatton, Chief Engineer, CC & O RR., and Wil-
liam Randolph Mauck, Harrisonburg, Virginia, were
reported as having passed to the Great Beyond in re-
cent years.

“Twenty-two members responded with interesting
and enthusiastic letters and twelve members contributed
liberally with a total amount of $114.00.

“As far as I am concerned the campaign is still
on and will be until I have heard, one way or the other,
from every member of the class. I will, therefore,
appreciate any information that anyone can give me
as to the whereabouts of the following men:

Frank Lane Miller, AB., M.D.
Edmond Blair Pancake, A.B.

Roger Wayles Harrison, LL.B.
John William Jones, LL.B.

James Steeele McCluer, LL.B.
Andrew Broaddus Winfree, L.L.B. .

I

mm -& G&G BA £4 He FS

James Ashby Berry.
Herbert Brooke Chermside.
Harlow Dixon.

Robert Ollie Huff.

William Thornton Leffel.
Scott Marion Loftin.
William C. Parish.

Chas. Novell Roark.
Eugene K. Rodgers.

Harry Christian Tobey.
Phillip Lindsey Wilson, B.S.

“It is very necessary that we have all possible
data on every member of the class, in order that our
records may be complete. Any one who has not con-
tributed to date, now has another opportunity to do so.

“As I see it, our work has just begun and we
should as soon as possible organize our class, elect per-
manent officers and pledge ourselves to contribute a
nominal annual sum toward defraying the expenses of
the Alumni Association. We should also plan a reunion
at Lexington within the next year or so.

“Write me your views on this subject and resolve
to be a more active and loyal alumnus than you have
been in the past. Washington and Lee needs you and
we all need each other. Refer to ‘Cy’ Young’s sum-
mer edition of the Alumni Magazine, see the record of
our class and write the old boys at the various ad-
dresses given. ‘They may be little older than when you
last saw them but they are still boys at heart and I will
wager that they are hungry for news of you and Wash-
ington and Lee. Let’s get together and make the Class
of 1899 a real factor in the future welfare and advance-
ment of the University.

“Dr. Gaines, as President, is the answer to our
Prayer. ‘Cy’ Young is the most enthusiastic and ef-
ficient Alumni Secretary and Coach in the world. Tex
Tilson is in a class to himself, as a man and coach,
and he is already giving us a winning football team.
If you don’t believe it just run over to the Virginia
game at Lexington on November 11th. Dick Smith
and Forest Fletcher are continually leading us to vic-
tory on the Diamond and Track and are upholding
W. and L.’s highest traditions in all forms of Athletics
and Walter McDonald has done something for W. and
L,. that will never be forgotten. But these leaders cannot
carry on alone and they need our moral and financial
support. I cannot speak for other classes but am sure
their views coincide with ours and I know that the Class
of 1899 can always be depended on.

“Let me hear from you.”

1897
Prete HamiLton, 408 Walnut Street, New Or-
leans, La. “Greetings, boys of 1897! Any of you who

[ 19 ]

es me oe aA. tL BW Man

may have turned down the job of class-agent for 1897
before Walter McDonald tried me missed some real
pleasure.

“How I ever became identified with the Class of
1897 is more than I can tell but I got it and reckon
my efforts were satisfactory or they would not have
asked me to be permanent class-agent.

“Here is a little past history. I entered W. and L.
in September 1893, a green country boy from Missis-
sippi. Didn’t know a living soul in Lexington but
after a few days found Victor Smith from Vicksburg,
whom I had known at Pantops Academy two years be-
fore. Later I found the Dillon family from Indian
Rock living in Lexington, and John Dillon in college.

‘There was no class system in those days and
most classes were designated as Prep., Junior, Inter-
mediate, and Senior. There was a preparatory de-
partment and I, being only fifteen years old, was a
Prep. in some ways if not in all, but Preps. could as-
sociate with Seniors, and Seniors with Preps., in some
cases, without losing caste. It was for the most part
just one big family affair. There were 250 boys, and
a year or two later when the Prep. department was
abolished the number fell to about 178.

“Now read this and laugh. When we assembled
in Newcomb Hall to have various professors help map
out our courses of study for the year I was assigned to
my later good friend, ‘Old Alex’ (Prof. Nelson),
and here’s what I drew: Prep. Math, Prep. Latin,
Junior English and Senior German. No use telling
what happened to me in Senior German. Anyhow I
should have arrived at the degree of C. E. in 1898 but
was called home at the end of March 1897 and did not
go back until April 1, 1899. Had I stayed and gradu-
ated it would have been with the Class of 1900. But
here I am class-agent for 1897.

“T want to say to you fellows who didn’t answer
my letters that I am coming back at you soon and most
of you are going to say something, and I sincerely
hope that you will help to make our class 100% for
htis year. Do you know that I got a very genuine
pleasure out of hearing from you old boys, some of
whom I didn’t expect to remember me. Until you
have tried it you don’t know what pleasure you can
get from a few lines from an old friend whom you
haven’t heard from for forty years.

“You have had a copy of the latest Alumni Maga-
zine with a report on the Alumni campaign. If you
read it you must have enjoyed hearing indirectly from
the old boys. I have gotten the keenest kind of pleas-
ure out of hearing through the Magazine from many
old boys of other classes, most of whom I had not
heard a word from for forty years. Let me mention
just a few, and some of the big ones may not remem-

[ 20 ]

I

   
   
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
    
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

N 2

ro
——

Me @ A 2.8

ber me but I remember them. ‘There are Heth Tyler
and Ran ‘Tucker, Graves, Holt, Mullen, John Davis,
Newton Baker and Fitzpatrick, the last three now
members of the Board of Trustees, and the last of
the three presided over an indignation mass meeting.
of students in Newcomb Hall. There are Reynolds
Vance, Satterwhite, Mezick, Lindenberger, Capito,
Pratt, Feamster, Harlow, Babe Mason, Jim Faulkner,
Carmichael, Stiffy Moore, Dave Barclay, Garrow, Fred
White, Slicer, Richard Flournoy, Watson and a dozen:
or two others. There is old Charley Dice and how did-
I find him except by reading through the Class of ‘96
and finding him mentioned by Paul Penick—why not
speak for yourself Charley? ‘There are others who
are only mentioned through an old friend or class-mate,

“Let me tell you boys it’s a pleasure to hear about
you and if I like it so much it must be that at least
some of the rest of you like the same kind of news,
Get this into your heads, that many others want to hear
from you or about you. We can’t all write person
letters to one another but we can keep in touch through
the Alumni Magazine. And that isn’t all that’s inter-
esting in the Magazine. It tells you about up-to-date
W. and L. and the professors, some of whom are still
there and remembered by us with much affection.

“But there must be financial support for such a
splendid Magazine and we old boys and the younger
ones must support it. It doesn’t cost much. We must
support and build up an Alumni Association second to
none. Is W. and L. second to any other college in
our admiration and love? I can answer for most of
you if not for every one and the answer is No. Lots
of us spent the happiest days of our lives on that old
campus and drew inspiration and ideals from the as-
sociations there that have gone with us through life.
We wouldn’t part with them for any consideration.

“This is going to be a big year for the Alumni
Association and we are all going to be happier for the
part which we take in its success. ‘

“While this is addressed to the Class of 1897 I.
hope that it may not be presumptuous on my part to
ask that others read it and take it to heart in the
friendly and affectionate spirit which is intended.”

1894 |

James N. VeEEcH, 3907 Frankfort Ave., Louis-
ville, Ky. |
“The report of the Alumni Campaign as it ap-
peared in the Summer edition of the Alumni Magazine
was of much interest to all who had a copy. It has
been my good fortune to meet a good many of the old
boys this summer and they all appear to have a new
interest in the University. The most interest was—
shown by a daughter of a Civil War professor, who

.

 

7, H E A £ Sm ON

—~—

had the first word in fifty years from some of her
girlhood friends. I have had several letters from boys
who were at the University with me and who had seen
my name in the report. It was a great pleasure to
hear from them and to know that you still held a
place in their hearts after thirty-nine years absence.

“Tt is unfortunate that each Alumnus can not be
induced to write the class-agents a few words about
themselves for they will be read with such pleasure
by their friends of long-ago. We had only seven of
the 1894 class in the last report, but we hope to have
them all in the next report.”

1890
DEAN Dovuctras S. ANpDERSON, Dean of the Col-
lege of Engineering, Tulane University, New Orleans,
La. ‘In my attempt to get in touch with all the sur-

I

MA. S&S AOS. eS ee

viving members of the Class of 1890, nothing impressed
me so much as the strength and permanence of the
affection which Washington and Lee men have for
alma mater, after long years of absence and scattered
over the length and breadth of the land.

“Men whom I have not seen for over forty years,
and in some instances had not even heard of in all that
time, wrote letters in which their love for the old
school was reflected in their expressions of good feel-
ing and kindness toward me.

“Tt was truly a revivifying of that fine Washing-
ton and Lee spirit which is one of its noblest traditions.

“IT wish to take this occasion to thank all these
men and to say that it is my earnest wish and hope to
write each of them personally as soon as I can find
the opportunity.”

eae ae

A letter from an alumnus, a class-agent, a subscriber, an advertiser,
a contributor to the Alumni Magazine

“Thanks for your letter of the 29th, instant, in
reply to which I am forwarding my check for $5 for
the insertion of my card.

“T might also add that I have been trying as much
as possible to throw business to W. and L. men all over
the country, and have referred to the directory on prev-
ious occasions.

“Aside from the high average and ability that I

find in W. and I. graduates, I also have the added as-
surance that their continuance of the honor system
after leaving school assures the additional important
factor of unquestionable integrity in the handling of
important matters.
“With kindest regards, I beg to remain,
Yours sincerely,

Wa. A. Hyman, 1912”

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company

Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL

Bluefield, West Virginia
Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-

mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below.

ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

If interested in the technical side

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 21 ]

oe a a. ee

I

MA GA-.Z#iitI Nae

Local Alumni Association Notes

Appalachian Association, Bristol

THE ALUMNI of the Appalachian section are re-
joicing that the student body aggregates over 800; that
the Generals seem to have -found themselves under
“Tex” Tilson and his cohorts; and above all that we
have the inspirational leadership of Dr. Gaines and his
splendid corps of assistants. During these “Times of
Stress” we decided not to hold a banquet last Spring
as our alumni are widely scattered, and “money trees”
refuse to flourish any more.

“Dick” Rouse, of Marion, has located in Bristol
for the practice of law. Hagan Minnick and Ed
Wright are offering municipal bonds to the local Roth-
childs at gift prices. A. C. Crymble, 1918, is now with
the Tennessee Eastman Corporation at Kingsport.
Congressman John W. Flannagan Jr., keeps busy try-
ing to appease hungry job seekers. Attorney C. C.
Burns, 1901, attends directors’ meetings in Bristol once
a month, from his home at Lebanon, and always has
a cheery word of sunshine. F. L. Davis, of Abingdon,
has recently taken over the Prudential Life Insurance
Company account. Fred C. Parks, 1921, of Abingdon,
is Commonwealth’s Attorney for Washington County.
M. M. Heuser, 1929, of Norton, is active in Wise pol-
itics. J. W. Davis, 1930, is our local journalistic lum-
inary with the Bristol Herald-Courier. D. T. Stant,
1909, is City Attorney and L. B. Rouse, 1923, Com-
monwealth’s Attorney, respectively, of Bristol, Vir-
ginia. J. F. Stone, 1926, has recently received an at-
tractive assignment with the TVA at Knoxville, and
with the arrival of Jerry Jr., on October 11th, the cup
runneth o’er.

With warm regards and wishing a most success-
ful year for every activity of the University, believe
me,

Sincerely yours,
J. M. Barker Jr.,
Appalachian Association

Birmingham

1. Evans Dunn, 1914, who used to be with Nesbit
and Sadler, has now formed a partnership wth Mr.
Sadler, known as Sadler and Dunn, with offices in the
Webb-Crawford Buildng.

2. Billy Hogue, 1912, was appointed Circuit Judge
by Governor Miller, the appointment being a temporary
one, and lasted about five months.

3. Roderick Beddow, 1912, and many friends will
be glad to know that he has been elected President of

International Lions Club, which held their meeting in —
St. Louis this year, and Mr. Beddow received national
recognition by virtue of his election to this office. A
large return of several hundred people welcomed him —
back to Birmingham upon his return.

4. Mr. Walter Hood, 1910, is still wth the Ala-—
bama Power Company as Secretary of their gigantic
organization.

5. Cott Henley, 1910, has been heard to say that
he is going to see the Virginia-Washington and Lee
game. He is operating an independent insurance
agency, known as Henley and Company. Mercer
McCrum is working for him.

6. T. McCrum, 1908, is holding a responsible posi-
tion with the Protective Life Insurance Company.

7. Dr. George Denny is being urged to run for the
governorship. By the time you will receive this letter
he will have announced his candidacy for governor
of the State of Alabama. Borden Burr, a Washington
and Lee man, and also a University of Alabama gradu-
ate, is pushing the candidacy of Dr. Denny. I have
been collaborating with Borden Burr, doing a lot of
work for Dr. Denny. The chances are better than
50-50 that he will be next governor of the State of

Alabama.
Charleston, W. Va.

THE CHartreston Alumni had a buffet supper
Saturday evening, September 16 at Pine Manor Coun-
try Club. This get-together was more or less a “pep —
meeting” preceding the W. and L,. football game. Beer
was served, then buffet supper and entertainers fur-
nished us with singing and dancing.
turnout and much enthusiasm was shown.

Those who were there:

Dr. Eldon Andrew Amick, ’20, May Building; —
Julien Fred Bouchelle, 04, Kanawha Valley Bldg. ;
Wm. E. R. Byrne, II, ’28, 1422 Quarrier St.; H. V.
Campbell, 17, 1102 Security Bank and Trust Bldg.;
G. H. Caperton, Jr., 208 Beauregard St.; Wm. Gaston
Caperton, 10, Kanawha Valley Bldg.; Lafe Chafin,
care of Auditor’s Office; George L. Coyle, 10, Coyle
and Richardson ; Maurice Jardine Crocker, ’23, Security
Bank Building.

D. B. Dawson, ’21, Kleeman Bldg., Summers St.;
W. W. Donnally, ’25, Kanawha Valley Bldg.; Arthur
Lee Eberly, ’27, 1429 Quarrier St.; Norman S. Fitz-
hugh, 98, Kanawha Banking and Trust Co.; Norman
S. Fitzhugh, Jr., Kanawha Banking and Trust Co.

Harry Avis Hall, ’23, Morrison Bldg.; Cyrus

[ 22 |

It was a fine ©

 

7

 

a 2 2. oN

I

os -/. & Sa 2. a Om Ue

 

= Woe

Wm. Hall, ’23, 1506 Kanawha Valley Bldg.; Echols
Hansbarger, care of State Tax Commissioner’s Office ;
Waller C. Hardy, 04, Kanawha Valley Bldg.; Peyton
Harrison, care of Workmen’s Compensation Dept. ;
Philip A. Herscher, ’10, Kanawha Banking and ‘Trust
Co.; Kenneth Hines, care of Attorney General’s Of-
fice; Homer A. Holt, Attorney General; Robert Gorrell
Kelly, 18. Kanawha Valley Bldg.

Nelson Smith Lake, ’26, Security Bank and Trust
Bldg. ; George A. Litsinger, Appalachian Electric Power

-Co.; Brown Lewis, ’11, care of Nehi Bottling Co.;

John Thompson Martin, ’26, 527 Nancy St.; John
Cooper Morrison, Jr., °25, 1600 Kanawha Valley Bldg.

Andrew Allemong Payne, ’26, Kanawha Valley
Bldg.; Charles C. Peters, 17, Security Bank and
Trust Bldg. ; Silas M. Preston, State Capitol ; W. Chap-
man Revercomb, °16, 603 Union Bldg.; Louis S%.
Rowan, care of Clerk, County Court House; Jack
Savage, 1107 Highland Road; Jerome W. Schwabe,
‘25, care of Schwabe and May; Roy C. Slack, ’25, 1506
Dixie Street; Joe L. Silverstein, ’22, Charleston Na-
tional Bank Bldg.; Sam Silverstein, °17, Charleston,
National Bank Bldg.; Ira Simms, South Ruffner, City ;
Clyde Smith, Pine Manor Country Club; Charles F.
Stuart, DuPont Co., Belle, W. Va.; Osman E.. Swartz,
B.L., 02, Union Trust Building.

James Kay Thomas, ’26, Security Bank and Trust

James Kay ‘Thomas, 2 22
Bldg.; Brown Donnally Truslow, ’09, Lee and Dickin-
son Sts.; Dorr Marley Tucker, ’24, 2431 Washington
St.; James S. Tully, care of State Treasurer’s Office ;
Charles Wood, Gates Bldg.; Grover Worrell, Auditor’s

Office.
Charlotte, N. C.

Tuomas McP. Grascow, 1912, has been appointed
Deputy Administrator of the NRA, having moved to
Washington in September to assume his new duties.
Tom is in the automotive supply business in Charlotte,
being head of the firm of Glasgow-Stewart Company,
wholesale jobbers of automobile supplies and parts.
His business in Charlotte is being continued by his
partner.

Tom was active in the formation of the oil code,
being one of the representatives on the codification
committee of the small independent dealers. During
the hearings on the oil code, he was very active for
several weeks in pushing through provisions of the
code for the protection of the independent dealers. His
ability was quickly recognized by General Johnson,
with the result that his appointment as Deputy Admin-
istrator came a few weeks later. ‘Tom’s work in Wash-
ington is in connection with the lumber code at the
present time.

On a recent visit to Charlotte he reported that his
work was keeping him busy 12 to 18 hours a day, and
that he had never worked as hard in his life.

In the civie life of Charlotte, Tom is one of the
outstanding younger business men, being a member of
the Kiwanis Club, an officer in the Automobile Asso-
ciation, a director of the Goodfellows Club, local charit-
able organization, as well as other connections. He is
very active in the Presbyterian church, being an elder
in the Myers Park Presbyterian church, and a teacher
of one of the largest men’s Bible classes in the city.
Twice in the last three years he has been one of the
Commissioners from Mecklenburg Presbytery to the
General Assembly of the Church, which meets each
year at Montreat. He is rapidly becoming recognized
as one of the outstanding laymen of the Southern
church.

FE. Randolph Preston, 1902, was appointed Special
Assistant to the Attorney-General of the United States
during the summer months, with temporary quarters
in the Far West. He is assigned to special duty there,
but will be transferred as his work demands. Ran has
been one of the outstanding members of the Charlotte
Bar for thirty years, during which time he has been
active in the civic life of Charlotte. He was one of the
founders of the Greater Charlotte Club, the forerunner
of the present Chamber of Commerce. During his
earlier days, as a member of the state legislature, Ran
was active in social legislation in the State, being the
father of the act which created the Stonewall Jackson
Training School, a model school for wayward boys.
The school bears the name of Mrs. Preston’s grand-
father.

Taylor B. Harrison, 1912, is the city manager for
Investor’s Syndicate of Minneapolis in Charlotte. Tuck
moved to Charlotte ten years ago from Norfolk, going
there as General Agent for the Atlantic Life Insurance
Company of Richmond. <A year ago, he accepted the
position as manager for the company he now repre-
sents.

Phil Howerton, 1925, is Agency Supervisor of
the Olier F. Roddey Agency of the Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company of Philadelhpia. The territory of
of the Agency covers the two Carolinas with main of-
fices in Charlotte.

John Letcher Crist, 1912, is Southern Salesmana-
ger of the Calco Chemical Compnay.

James W. Wilkinson, 1924, is engaged in the
general insurance business in Charlotte, having assumed
with his older brother, the business of his late father,

W. C. Wilkinson.

Washington and Lee is represented in the Medical
profession in Charlotte by William Allan, 1902, T.

[ 23 ]

a eS a 2 Mw aN

Preston White, 1917, Frank Lane Miller, 1899, Roy
B. McKnight.

Fred C. Hunter, 1915, (?) is County Recorder for
Mecklenburg County, the county of which Charlotte
is the county seat.

The Charlotte Association during the past year
has held but one meeting, but plans are on foot to
hold another within the next few weeks to get the
local alumni together. Charlotte has an unusally large
representation of W. and L. men, with about thirty-five
on the list of the association, and probably fifteen
others who are not affiliated. These men will be
brought into active contact before the next meeting.

A large number of the men are planning trips
to the Homecoming Game against Virginia in Novem-
ber, so it is probable that Charlotte will be well rep-
resented at that gala occasion.

Louisville, Ky.

LOUISVILLE ALUMNI are eagerly looking forward
to November the eighteenth, when they expect the
Generals to vindicate the record of past years against
the “Praying Colonels” of Centre. Elaborate prepara-
tions have been completed and a large crowd of alumni
is anticipated, as evidenced by the fact that President
Henry Hill has reserved 100 choice seats for this game.
He also has announced that Friday, November the
third, will be pep night, when speeches will be made
and Ed Reitze will lead some yells.

H. Ed Rietze Jr., Ex-1925. Head cheer leader
in 1924, was married October 7th, 1933, to Miss Lucy
McCowen, of Louisville.

Murrel D. (Lefty) Klein, 1925, announces the
birth of a daughter on August 6th, 1933.

Ernest S. (Fatty) Clarke Jr., 1928, has left R. F.
C. to take a position with the Liberty Bank & Trust
Co., where he is associated with E. G. (Bingo) Barker,
1926 and W. A. Orr, 1927.

Dr. Buerk (Zev) Zimmerman, 1928, is serving a
year interneship at St. Joseph Hospital in Lexington,
Ky.

R. T. (Bob) Foree Jr., 1927, has left the Louis-
ville Gas & Electric Co. to take a position with the
General Electric Refrigeration Corporation.

Willett Magruder, 1928, has moved to St. Louis,
Mo., where he is engaged as a chemist.

Ed. C. Hill, 1931, is with the American ‘Tobacco
Company in the leaf department.

Gaines S. Dobbins Jr., 1931, and Alexander M.
Forrester Jr., Ex.-1931, are enrolled in the University
of Louisville School of Medicine.

Peel Rivers, 1933, is with the Axton-Fischer To-
bacco Company.

I

    

MAGA ZitI Nw

—

The Kaplan family, each a Phi Beta Kappa, is
doing well in Louisville. Joe, 1928, is an attorney, ©
Murrel, 1930, is a senior at the University of Louis-_
ville School of Medicine. Robert, 1933, is with Gold-
berg and Kaplan, a wholesale mercantile house.

New York

THE MOST ENTHUSIASTIC ALUMNI GATHERING

FRIDAY evening, October 13th, preceding the Yale
game, the New York Alumni Association gave its first
dinner of the year and was host to a large and repre-
sentative gathering of Washington and Lee men not—
only in the metropolitan area but in those sections close
to New York, in New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsyl-
vania, and the upper part of the state who came to
town for this double celebration of the New York
Alumni dinner and a party preceding the Yale game.

About seventy-five gathered in the Egyptian Room
of the Hotel St. Regis and ate an excellent dinner of
that famous hotel’s cooking. The Meyer-Davis or-
chestra was diverted from its duty elsewhere in the
hotel and provided music during the evening.

Mr. Thorne, the manager of the St. Regis, acted
with Milton B. Rogers, 1915, the retiring president
of the New York alumni, as co-host and made every-
body very welcome and very comfortable in his at-
tractive hotel. |

The Hon. John W. Davis, 1892, was there with
Milton Rogers to greet Dr. Gaines, who was one of the
speakers on the program after dinner and who went
with others of New York who joined him for the cele-
bration the following day at New Haven. ;

Dr. Gaines traveled with the team and the coaches
from Lexington to New Haven and back. i

Dr. William Elliott Dold, 1877, represented the
oldest class of Washington and Lee men at this meet-
ing and was particularly charming, as he always is,
to the younger men who look forward to seeing him
annually at this meeting. |

Joe Lykes, 1910, of course was there, and Dozier
DeVane, 1908, came up from Washington specially
for the dinner. Mr. John Pinkerton East, 1888, was
there and as Governor of the Virginian Society in~
New York he likes never to miss an opportunity to see
out-of-town Virginians. Oscar Huffman, 1897, presi-
dent of the Continental Can Co., was one of those whom
the New York association is particularly glad to have —
with them. |

The usual courtesy of asking the president of the
New York V. M. I. Alumni Association was respond-—
ed to by Mr. Stephen Meems, their president this year. —

Milton Rogers presided over the dinner with a nice
balance of proper informality and the dignity that the

[ 24 ]

4

 

, fo A 4) A oN

a

occasion and its ceremony demanded. His speech as
the retiring president and his introductions of two
speakers of the evening, and his report for the nominat-
ing committee on candidates for new offices this com-
ing year, gave him his last opportunity to represent the
New York Washington and Lee men in this particu-
lar capacity, though he finds many relationships with
Washington and Lee that he keeps always in excellent
order whether in or out of office.

The first speaker was Mr. Martin W. Littleton,
an alumnus of Washington and Lee of perhaps as short
a duration as any and of as great distinction as only
a few can claim. He spoke of the days in Lexington
when “Harry Tucker” and “Charlie Graves” were the
great teachers of law and the great influence in young
men’s lives. His remembrances were rich in that
proud sentiment that great men are not ashamed to
express, and there were reminiscences that revived
days with special delight to the older men and brought
back to the younger ones their own particular and
pleasant memories.

Dr. Gaines was the other speaker and his simple
and inspiring talk was about the University from a point
of view that had its special significance to her sons.
It is customary after every apearance of Dr. Gaines
before the alumni in their local associations for those
who have heard him to say “That’s the best speech Dr.
Gaines ever made.” ‘This is his peculiar effect always.

The officers for the coming year were elected by
acclamation: Clarence L. Sager, 1914, President ;
Arthur W. McCain, 1914, Vice-President; and the
always reliable Ed. Lee, 1913, Secretary.

Arrangements for the details of handling the
Washington and Lee men going to the Yale game were
announced and the committee in charge of this added
greatly to the comfort and pleasure of the very large
crowd at New Haven. Counting wives and members
of families and friends, all told, there were about three
hundred Washington and Lee supporters of the foot-
ball team at the Bowl at New Haven.

The above account of this dinner was not sub-
mitted by a member of the New York Committee on
account of the short time allowed for getting this
notice in print, and that accounts for the unconven-
tional, enthusiastic impression which is one way, one
of their guests has of expressing his most cordial ap-
preciation of the occasion.

Norfolk

It IS RATHER difficult to report on the future ac-
tivities of the Tidewater Alumni Association because
as yet we have nothing definite planned for the fall or
Winter. In the past we have had the pleasure of look-

I

ee. Se A: ee

ing forward to the annual Washington and Lee-Wil-
liam and Mary football game. However, this year the
game was played in Lexington and we can no longer
look forward to the dinner following the football game
which is so well remembered by all of the players.
All that we can say is that Norfolk alumni miss the
opportunity of entertaining the team and _ sincerely
hope that next year the schedule will be so arranged
that we may again be able to look forward to Washing-
ton and Lee playing in Tidewater.

We shall, of course, have a mid-winter get-together
at which time we hope to have Dr. Gaines, Cy, Tex,
or some other eloquent speaker such as “Red-Eye”
give us the first hand information from Lexington.

For the first time in many years we can point with
pride to the freshmen from ‘Tidewater who are now
attending Washington and Lee. Statistics will show
that a larger number are now attending W. and L.
than ever before. In addition, we have sent to you
for further development in size and athletic ability two
promising candidates for freshman football in the per-
sons of Kerford Marchant, 190-pound guard and cap-
tain of last year’s Maury High school football team,
and ‘Tubby’ Owings, 280-pound tackle, from the same
High school. Both of these boys were All-State high
school players and we trust with the development and
instruction that Cy and Tex will no doubt give them
that they will be All-Southern by their junior years.
Marchant, incidentally, is the recipient of the Alumni
scholarship from Norfolk.

The Tidewater association is still headed by one
of W. and L.’s most loyal alumni, Major S$. Heth Ty-
ler, and the writer still handles the secretarial duties,
as well as the deficits in the treasury.

WaLter E. HorrMan

San Antonio, Texas

THE STEVES Family, (Mr. Albert Steves, Sr., 1877,
Albert Steves, Jr., 1906, Walter Steves, 1913, Albert
Steves, III, 1930, and Sam Steves, 1932,) of the Steves
Sash and Door Co., are trying to teach the Blue Eagle
in the Wholesale Sash and Door Association and Mill-
work Cost Bureau, how to spread his wings and fly.

Bob Witt, 1913, has been going back and forth all
summer from New York, Washington, Memphis, New
Orleans, and Atlanta, writing the code for the Hard-
ware people.

Hiram Dow, 1908, of Roswell, New Mexico, has
a will case in Uvalde, Texas, and visits his San Antonio
friends on his business trips, combining business and
pleasure.

Eddie Davis, 1915, who has been quite sick, is im-
proving rapidly.

[ 25 ]

ee

I

MAG=AZzit Na

Class Notes

1933—Cuar_Les F. Suter left immediately after ex-
ams and went to work for the World’s Fair Corpora-
tion in Chicago; is now with the Great Atlantic and
Pacific Tea Company and would like to hear from
other alumni, any classes, who are with this organiza-
tion.

1932—JAmEs Dittinc Sparks of Monroe, Ala., grad-
uated in law of Washington and Lee passed his Louis-
liana bar exams and has been sworn in before the
Supreme Court.

1932—HeErpert G. Dottanire, II, Park Hotel, Amory,
Miss., is a special correspondent of the Alumni Maga-
zine and class-agent, extraordinary, in the field of fresh
news and interesting gossip. He writes:

“My dear ‘Cy’: This letter to you will be a re-
sume of the whereabouts of a number of Washington
and Lee men.

“T noticed a picture of Harry Fitzgerald in the
new University magazine two months ago and today in
the recent issue of College Humor I see where he
made the all-American baseball team for 1933 and his
writeup was not out of order. ‘Fitz’ made an able
President of the Student Body last year and I trust he
will be back with you this next season for he is a
prince. |

“Wm. C. Watson, Jr., Columbus, Miss., received
his LL.B. from Tulane in June and had several splen-
did offers but is undecided as to what connection he
would make. Bill finished with honors and he stood
first in his class at Ole Miss in his first year of law and
for the past two years at Tulane was also an outstand-
ing student. About two weeks ago Houston Minniece
was here and he seems to be prosperous in his connec-
tion with United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co. of
Baltimore. Gibson Witherspoon, Jr., was here not
long ago and he, too, has a place with USF&G. A.
Doug Simpson recently married and is now serving the
Mississippi State Board of Public Welfare with head-
quarters in Jackson. Bayliss Hightower of Athens,
Ala., was married Sept. 12th to Miss Louise Daniel
at Tupelo, Miss., and the bride tells me that Willis Van
Gilbert was over for the wedding. I saw Bayliss in July
and he was one excited dead in love boy then and
along with Van Gilbert is doing nicely in business.
I see W. C. Knopf, Jr., “‘Heinie’, Roebuck Terrace,
Birmingham, occasionally and he is connected with
his father in business, the Domestic Electric Co. of
Birmingham. Saw Wallace Beard down in Laurel in
April and he is the same ‘Wally’ and seems to be doing

well in the battery business. Chas. E. Hamilton is
selling insurance over in Aberdeen for the company—_
so I have been told—that wrote the first policy! J]
have not seen Campbell Banks, Columbus, Miss., re-
cently but I hear that he is now much improved in
health and back with his father in business. Bill
Brooks, Drew, Miss., is yet unsettled but has a promis-
ing offer or two that will materialize in the near future,
Jas. W. Smither, Jr., Field Supervisor, Union Central
Life Ins. Co., 1647 Canal Bank Bldg., New Orleans,
La., was married in the early summer to his Randolph-—
Macon love interest, Elizabeth Love ‘Betsy’ Hennegin
of Little Rock, Ark. Joe Lockett, Houston, Texas, ©
received his LL.B. from U. of Texas this past June.
Studying last year at Texas U. so Helon Torrance of
Waco wrote me were Rosser Coke, Jr., and Craig
Berry of Dallas. Charles Elbrick, Louisville and La-
Grange, Ky., was to visit me this summer in August
but heard from him last week and he contemplated ob-
taining a coaching position in Wyoming this winter
and as that is pending he is unable to come down
South. You will find him at “Longacre”, LaGrange,
Ky., most of the time ere he leaves for the West.

“T had a word or two recently from Paul H. ‘Sexy’
Wofford, Jr. of Johnson City, Tenn., wanting me to
meet him in Memphis but I was unable to do so. Did
regret being unable to meet him in the Bluff City as I
have not seen him since we were in Los Angeles last —
summer. Estill Harman, the boy of Lambda Chi who —
succeeded John Teggart in his chapter position of
playboy was in Memphis not many days ago to escort
Molly Coe to the annual summer dance of AOPi.
Just a real R.-Macon and W. and L. affair? Cliff
Hemming, Meridian, Miss., studied at Huey P. Long’s
‘L. S. U.’ (apologies to Jimmie Sparks down in Mon-—
roe, La.) last year and just recently returned from a
Southern California trip. Rufus Simpson, Meridian, —
Miss., was over at Miss. State College last year and
helped to revive the chapter of SAE there. Speaking —
of Mississippi State I would like to tell you how much
I enjoyed seeing and being with Dr. Gaines on June —
6 when he was there to deliver the Final Day address.
His address was magnificent and he received a tre-_
mendous applause. Think President Gaines found
great pleasure in this visit to Mississippi State since
he was a former member of the faculty there, had his
romance of romances during his professorship there,
and was married in the chapel where he delivered the
splendid address. |

“While on the Pacific Coast in Los Angeles last

[ 26 ]

 

 

= 1. Bo ee

——

summer for the Xth Olympiad I had the pleasure of
meeting the Hon. Thomas Ball, Jr., Suite 735, Title
Ins. Bldg., Los Angeles, who is now a prominent
member of his profession there and I will ever treasure
the time spent with him for he was most interesting.
He had a scrap book reminiscent of the ‘days back
when’ while a student at Washington and Lee and his
collection was most unusual and entertaining. Another
climaxing event was meeting the Hon. Wm. Haynie
Neblett, 649 S. Olive, Bank of Italy Bldg., Los An-
geles, who is the junior partner to the Hon. Wm.
Gibbs McAdoo, the firm being known as McAdoo,
Neblett and Clagert. It was in Wm. Neblett’s office
that I had the pleasure of seeing that famous football
squad of 1913 and among the notables was the present
Alumni Sec’y and ‘Cy’ you haven’t changed much!
Then there was Max Meadors, 416 West &th St., L. A.,
Manager of Wentz and Erlin, insurors. He told me
quite an interesting story about one year when the Fijis
and the Sigma Chis helped each other rush! The
meeting of these three alumni was by far more than
worth my trip to the Golden State. I had rather see
them while there than any of the ‘20-Ring Circus’
events of the Xth Olympiad though that was wonderful
to the nth degree.

‘Speaking of Los Angeles, I was so glad to see
Paul Wofford, ‘Dynamite’ Evans, Marq Braun, and
Wit Hager who were out there for the Olympic con-
vention of SAE. Many other Washington and Lee
men were no doubt out there but we just did not
meet. I was over at Tuscaloosa the other day and saw
Dick Skeen, Alexandria, La., who had been in the
‘Bama summer school and he told me that he would
probably be at Columbia University during the coming
winter.

“Russ Pritchard, Memphis, Tenn., is making quite
a name in the investment banking world and has a
position with Marx and Bensdorf there in Memphis.
Harry L,. Williams, Jr., 1804 Wynnton Drive, Co-
lumbus, Ga., writes me often and I judge Harry will
soon be a married man. MHarry has a position in
his father’s business, the Swift Mfg. Co., of Columbus,
Ga. I had a card not long ago from Julian Bailey,
Greer, S. C., while he was in Seattle on his western
coast trip. Harvey Pride, Decatur, Ala., grad of June
1933 is now a filling station operator and ‘big’ pro-
moter! Harvey has the best wishes of all his many
friends Iam sure. I saw Joe Bear, Montgomery, Ala.,
while he was in Birmingham enroute to school after
Spending spring holidays at home and it was a treat
to see Joe. Only wish Carl had been with him as they
are a fine ‘pair’. Sam Engelhart, Montgomery, Ala.,
has been in Helflin, Ala., connected with the Ala.
State Highway Dept. H. W. ‘Cuz’ Carson, Mont-

I

ee a ee

gomery, W. Va., law grad of June just passed, motor-
ed down from the Virginia Commonwealth to join
me on a house party in Laurel during the spring va-
cation and I met ‘Cuz’ in Birmingham. While in
Laurel we had a great trip to the Coast and on into
New Orleans. Passed through Poplarville, Miss., and
talked to Cavett Robert's mother who told me that
Cavett was in New York at that time. The two
Mackles—Elliott and Bob—formerly of Birmingham
are now living in Nashville, Tenn. While in Birming-
ham not long ago I saw Oscar Geismer—‘ole Hand-
some’ and he looks fine and at that time the brother,
Gene, was traveling extensively in Europe. Henry
P. Johnston, editor of the Ring-tum Phi in 1928-29,
is now editor of the Huntsville, Ala., Times, the largest
paper in Northern Alabama—and they have a ten-
story building! Sue Shields on leaving W. and L.
in June 1932 located in Memphis with the law firm,
Malone, Tautenblatt, and Zimmerman. J. T. Jenkins,
formerly of Clarksdale, Miss., is now located in Mem-
phis, so his mother told me in the early summer.

“Bev Lambert, Jr., of Holly Grove, Ark., married
Miss Rosa Hess over a year ago and Bev is quite a
cotton factor in Arkansas. In the early summer he
attended cotton school in Memphis. D. H. ‘Red’
Moreton, M. Coe, Cliff Road, Birmingham, Ala., fin-
ished U. of Alabama this past June. A. C. ‘Red’
Conway, Sharpsburg, Ky., was a law student at Vandy
last June. Ed Gwin, Ada, Okla., is now married and
in the drug business there in the Alfalfa Bill State!
John H. Astin, Bryan, Texas, has been in New York
for the past several months studying art. H. J. ‘Pat’
Patterson, Osceola, Ark., is at home in business with
his father.

“Noticed in the new catalogue that T. P. ‘Tom’
Doughty, Jr., Ronceverte, W. Va., had resumed his
study at Washington and Lee the past year. Fred D.
Livingstone, Oxford, Penn., was at ‘Bama last year.
John H. Nelson, Danville, Va., came down Mississipi
way last summer and married Miss Lackey at Forest.
Geo. IT’. Steuterman, Memphis, Tenn., is now married
and graduated this past year from the Memphis Law
School. Guess he will soon be needing a new shingle!
John Henry Johnson, Gate City, Va., married one of
my home town girls, Miss Mary Foster Rowan, last
summer and they are now the proud parents of a little
daughter. Eddie Jacobs, Memphis, Tenn., is progres-
sing nicely with his father in the laundry business.
Billy Howell, Richmond, Va., was in Memphis and was
a favorite in the Western Golf Ass’n meet there but
the smooth golfer that he is suffered some tough breaks.
He will go far next time I am sure as he is quite a fig-
ure in golfdom throughout the United States.

“As for myself I am working here at the hotel and

[ 27 ]

 

Ge Wine m3
The ancestral home of the Lincolns of Virginia is on Lin-
ville Creek, a short distance from Harrisonburg. When
Abe Lincoln’s father was a small boy he lived there with

Abe Lincoln’s grandfather. Several members of the Lin-
coin clan still live in the neighborhood.

have been since the first of the year. I have found the
work very interesting and despite the confinement
really like the hotel world a lot. I am sure you will
be glad to know that our friend, Coach H. C. Jenkins,
will be back here for this next year and he has a very
promising football season. ‘Jenks’ is now in the West
with his wife and two months old daughter, Betty Jo,
and the baby is really precious and the father is one
proud soul.

“Remember me kindly to all the university family
to whom I send my kind regards. When the time
first permits I will be back in the fold and will be dis-
satisfied until my return to Lexington is a reality. I
love the place and to me it is like home. The Generals
have a great schedule and may they be the winners in
their every game and if not I know they at least gave
their best.”

1928—Witiiam P. Knicut, of Nicholasville, Ky.,
was married October 7 in Nicholasville to Miss Char-
lotte F. Smith, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wade
Hampton Smith, of Louisville. Mr. Knight is with
the First National Bank of Nicholasville.

1927—Bos Forek, Jr., is with the General Electric
Company, 676 South Fourth Street, Louisville, Ky.,
air conditioning equipment, specialty.

1926—Jamrs Hamivton, formerly of Amarillo, Texas,
now of Dallas, paid a visit in Lexington to his sisters
Miss Mary and Frances Hamilton, this fall with his
bride, the former Mrs. Natalie Smith Roberts. The
wedding took place in Brewster, N. Y., on September
2nd.

[ 28 ]

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

MaAGaAZei1i# i=

1926—Cuarces W. Lowry, Jr., took his Ph.D. from
Oxford last spring, probably the first Washington and
Lee man so to do. q

FrED AND FRANK Switzer of Harrisonburg. Fred
Switzer, 1925, and Frank Switzer, 1924, are the Presi-
dent and the General Manager of the Harrisonburg
Mutual Telephone Co. ‘They took over the manage-
ment of this telephone company upon the death of their
father in 1924 and have a completely modernized,
highly efficient plant and system. They are the thir¢
generation of telephone executives. Their grandfather
nearly forty years ago started the telephone busines ;
in Rockingham county as a new aid in communicatic 1,
while he was sheriff. His son developed it and now
his grandsons run it. :

1924—Mr. anp Mrs. Reep Graves (Julia Desha
have a little daughter born October 12th in Lynchburg

1924—Epwin H. Howarp, through Scram Sale, make
a contribution to the class of 1924. He is te
here in the School of Commerce.

1923—F. L. Sarres, 1706 McClung St., Charlestor
W. Va., with the Belle Alkali Co., where he has beer
in various capacities for just ten years, now in th
sales department, married Miss Katharine Backus, ¢
Montgomery, W. Va. Has a daughter, Kathe ine
Elizabeth.

1923—Dovuctas P. Winco of Birmingham was
ried this summer.

1922—Dr. Harry B. Years, Manuela Pedraza, Feet
Province of Salta, Argentine, graduted from the Medi
cal College of Virginia in 1928, interned at Memori
Hospital in Richmond, then the Sloane Hospital fe
Women in the Presbyterian Columbia Medical Cente
in New York. Since July 1930, Chief Surgeon for th
Standard Oil Co., in Argentine and Bolivia.

      
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
  

1920—E. W. Cummins, with the Ubiko Milling
pany of Cincinnati, manufacturers of grains and feec
for farm stocks, sends a cheering word about busines
and is kind enough to like the last number of the Magé
zine. He is Ubiko’s local representative in Princeto
West Virginia.

1920—S. B. Humes, Danville, Ky., is assistant distric
engineer with the State Highway Department, Ic ok
forward to the game with Centre; sends warm gree
ings, made stronger by feeling in touch again wi
members of his class through the Magazine.

:
.

1917—-Marion Surron SanpErs, Wytheville, Vé
sends a summer contribution to his class. Receive
this June his Master of Science in Electrical Enginee

ae ee ae IN

I

ae. en ee. ee ae ee.

 

Fred and Frank Switzer, of Harrisonburg, Va.

ing at Columbia. Will either teach or go into the com-
mercial field as consultant; is at present doing consult-
ing work in Industrial Efficiency; reports on Frank
Westcott, 1915, with General Motors Company, Broad-
way, N. Y.; also J. A. Jackson, 1912, practicing law
in the Insurance Bldg., New York City.

1917—Cot. C. R. SrrrpBiinc, Jr., has been elected
president and superintendent of the Missouri Military
Academy of Mexico, Mo., a preparatory school rated
by the War Department on their honor list. Col.
Stribling was born in Orange, Va., commandant at
the Fishburne Military Academy in 1920 where he
has been Commandant of Cadets since 1924. Col.
Stribling in becoming superintendent is also president
of the corporation and one of its five stockholders.

1915—Howarp W. Stuck, former president of the
Piggly Wiggly Jonesboro Co., at Jonesboro, Ark., has
been elected president of the Piggly Wiggly Operators’
Association at a convention of Piggly Wiggly Owners
in Chicago. He is, besides being head of the Associa-
tion, the owner of the three successful stores and presi-
dent of the Jonesboro Chamber of Commerce and
Colonel and head of the N. R. A. in that city.

1915—Woopson P. Hovucuton, of Ellis, Ferguson,
Houghton and Gary, Southern Bldg., Washington, has
Just returned from Europe and will report later the
plans and the achievements of the Washington (D. C.)
alumni, He was married early in the summer to the
Sister of the Roumanian Minister to the United States.

1915—Kyr WirtraMs, Waynesboro, Va., is in the Uni-
versity Hospital, Charlottesville, Va., and cannot write
his class letter, so it is suggested that members of his
Class write him.

1914—The well-known Italian firm of musical pub-
lishers, G. Ricordi and Co., has accepted and will pub-
lish shortly a composition by John A. Graham. The
composition is a musical setting for soprano solo and
mixed chorus of a poem by Lizette Woodworth Reese
entitled “A Carol.’ The chorus was written for the
celebrated Westminster Choir whose director, Dr. John
Finley Williamson, expects to sing the carol in the
Princeton University Chapel this winter and has asked
the composer to be present to direct the performance.
The carol received its first public performance last
Christmas by the choir of the Presbyterian church of
Lexington, Va.

1914—Franectis Pickens Miter of Pickens Hill,
Fairfax, Va., has been for several months visiting stu-
dent organizations in the Orient and was in the Dutch
East Indies in connection with his work for the Inter-
national Christian Federation.

1914—Cartton DunrieLp DETHLEFSEN, Bank of
America Building, 625 Market Street, San Francisco,
has acquired a most substantial success in the practice
of law in that city within the comparative short period
of nine years. He is a native of that city, born June
7, 1891, son of Nicholai Frederick and Emma Eliza-
beth (Dunfield) Dethlefsen.

Nicholai F. Dethlefsen came to California in the
year 1885, married Emma Dunfield of Seattle, Wash-
ington. For a number of years, they conducted a
hotel “south of Market street.” Both of the parents
are living, the father eighty and the mother sixty-five.
Carlton D. Dethlefsen’s maternal great-grandfather,
Samuel Dunfield, was one of the prominent pioneers
of the northwest, and his grandmother was the first
white woman to be carried by natives across the Isth-
mus of Panama, en route to territory of Washington.

[ 29 ]

a ae oo A b> 2 Mm AN

I

  

a om G AZ SS

 

Carlton D. Dethlefsen, the only child, attended the
old Lincoln school of San Francisco, his class having
been one of the last to graduate from this institution
so fondly remembered by San Francisco citizens. He
also attended the Edison public school, and in 1906
graduated from the Horace Mann high school. From
September 1911, until September 1913, he studied at
the University of California, and then entered Wash-
ton and Lee for a year’s course. Having decided to
practice law, Mr. Dethlefsen took up the study of law
in the office of John F. Peck and William Bunker in
Oakland, California, and in 1915 passed the state bar
examination.

After the United States declared war, Mr. Dethlefsen
enlisted in the Navy as a second-class seaman. He
served for two years and three months, honorably
discharged with the rank of ensign. He then returned
to Peck, Bunker & Coe, and remained from 1919 to
1922. In the latter year, he opened his office in San
Francisco, and here he has met with constantly in-
creasing success, and has conducted litigation for a
very large clientele. He is a member of the California
State and the San Francisco Bar Association.

In San Diego, California, November 29, 1919, Mr.
Dethlefsen and Miss Frances Adele Harmon of Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, were married, the latter a daughter of
Dr. Frank W. Harman and a niece of the Hon. Judson
Harmon, former governor of Ohio, eminent judge,
and attorney-general of the United States under Presi-
dent Cleveland. Mr. and Mrs. Dethlefsen have three
children: Elizabeth Harmon, who is thirteen years of
age; Carlton D., Jr., six; and John Frederick, who is
in his third year.

Mr. Dethlefsen is a thirty-second degree member of
the Masonic fraternity, and belongs to the Mystic
Shrine, the Masonic Club, the Order of Sciots, the
American Legion, the South of Market Boys, the Com-
monwealth Club, the California Golf Club, and the Phi
Delta Theta and Gamma Eta Kappa fraternities.

1914—Raymonp LEE BEUHRING, attorney of Hunting-
ton, W. Va., graduated first from Marshall College
in 1910, then from Washington and Lee in 1914, law.
He was fullback on the Washington and Lee football
team for four years. His friends remember him as
“Cannon-ball”. He was with the first Division in
France, Lieutenant in the 16th Infantry; wounded;
cited twice. 1929-30 member of the West Virginia
State Legislature, three committee appointments.

1911-—Oscar H. BreEmenBAcCH of New Orleans, of
the Mutual Life Insurance Co., has completed the com-
prehensive course of the American College of Life
Underwriters, and awarded the degree of Chartered
Life Underwriter.

[ 30 |

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  

1911—Joun E. Martin, superintendent of the Public
Schools of Suffolk, Va., is now district governor of
Rotary International and since July 1st has visited 4¢
of the 55 Rotary Clubs in Virginia.

1909—H. Lester Hooker, member of the Virginj
State Corporation Commission, has been made head 9
the National Association of Railroad and Public Utilj
ties Commissioners. The forty-fifth national conven
tion was held in Cincinnati, October 13. Mr. Hooker
has been a member of the commission since 1924 ane
at present is in charge of public utility and certifie¢
motor vehicle matters. Prior to his work on the com
mission he practiced law in Stuart. He is a brother of
Murray Hooker 1896, chairman of the State Demo-
cratic Committee. |

1909—AttaAN McDowe tt, of Kent School, Ken
Conn., where he teaches mathematics, is also a prac.
tical though not a practicing architect. Besides design
ing and building his own house, he has designed
a small house which, for charm and arrangement, fot
practical as well as original features, has been featurec
in the October issue of Pictorial Review. This mag:
azine is well recommended as worth looking up for
full description, with photographs and floor plan. Any
one interested in a small house of great charm, in
correct tradition, that can be built for $6,000, should
get the magazine. It has three bedrooms, two bat
big living room, kitchen and porch.

1909—Joun Murretre Arnorp, Municipal Bldg,
Norfolk, Va., was recently re-elected Commonwealth’s
Attorney of that city.

1908—Brian Bett, 1243 Trenton St., Los Angeles
California, is chief of bureau of the Associated Pres

 

W. Ross McCain, 1897

 

| H_E A 2 SS MON

a

‘n Los Angeles and has been for three years, in spite
of fires and earthquakes.

1906—JOHN RosBert Switzer, Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Rockingham county, was elected president of
the First National Bank of Harrisonburg, Va., Oc-
tober 3rd. Mr. Switzer has been a member of the
hoard of directors for six years and _ vice-president.
John Robert Switzer, Jr., graduated here last year.

1906—Dr. T. D. SLOAN is superintendent of the Post
Graduate Hospital of New York City.

1902—Rawn Preston, of Charlotte, N. C., is now Spec-
ial Assistant Attorney General in Washington. His
daughter, Miss Byrd Tucker Preston, is to be married
this fall.

1902—GriEr RALston SmiILey, of Louisville, Ky.,
has been made Chief Engineer of the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad.

1899—Harry St. Grtorct TucKER CARMICHAEL, of
Kyrock, Kentucky, vice-president in charge of pro-
duction of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., has been
appointed by President Roosevelt as one of the Ken-
tucky commissioners in charge of the Public Works
program under the National Recovery Act. Fifteen
millions has been allotted so far and a works program
of thirty-five is to be handled. A local note of interest

 

McCRUM’S

Where Everybody Meets to Enjoy

Ten Flavors of Delicious Ice-Cream

Tasty Sandwiches and

SCALITZ ON. Var

—‘‘Fountain Service Unexcelled’’—

 

 

I

ee. Se ee Ae

is that Washington street in Lexington from Main
street to the Episcopal church has been remade and
surfaced by Mr. Carmichael’s Kyrock with surpris-
ingly little interruption of the great traffic on this street
at the opening of the two colleges.

1897—Hunter McDonatp of Nashville, Tenn., is at
recreational work, annotating and supplementing his
mother’s diaries and remembrances of the War Be-
tween the States and reconstruction period for publi-
cation in 1934.

1897—W. Ross McCain, Hartford, Conn., has been
elected president of the Aetna Insurance Co.

1896—E,. A. (Gus) Quar es, 139 East 7th St., Plain-
field, N. J., was a visitor to Lexington during the sum-
mer. He has many friends here dating from his child-
hood days, through college, and since.

1894—Morton K. Yontz and Miss Virginia Justin
Phelps of Louisville, Ky., were married on August 20.

1878—Jupcr W. H. Tayior, of Uniontown, Alabama,
delivered an address before the ladies of the Coosada
Civic Club on The Life and Character of General Rob-
ert E. Lee and was asked to repeat it twice. The man-
uscript of this address has been circulated in Lexington
among a few of Judge Tayloe’s more intimate friends
and very much enjoyed.

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........ 1.50
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

[ 31 ]

A: ae: ae

In Memoriam

PROF. WILLIAM T. LYLE

October 30th, at Lexington, Virginia, of heart
failure, Prof. William Thomas Lyle, head of the de-
partment of civil engineering. Prof. Lyle was of the
class of 1896 of Princeton and came to Washington
and Lee in 1921 from Rice Institute, Dallas.

1933
RospErt Howarp WILxiAMs, a freshman in the
engineering school, last year, died in New Orleans,
as the result of an accident on July 7th. He was at
work on a construction camp where his father, a con-
tractor, was building bridges. He was caught between
a barge and a tug.

1918
C. Rurus McCoy of Clintwood, Va., died sud-
denly on September 22nd. He was counsel for a num-
ber of Virginia corporations.

1909
J. Deartnc Curistian died suddenly in Lynch-
burg, Va., on September 26th.

1902
Tomas M. Morrison died September 18, at his
home in Chattanooga, Tenn.

1892
Dr. J. Harvey Larrp of Louisville, Ky., died at
his home on July 31st. He was born in Augusta Coun-
ty and was surgeon at V. M. I. under General Shipp.
He served as captain in the Medical Corps both in New
Mexican border disturbance and in the World War.

1891
ALEXANDER Morson Lewis of Wichita Falls,
Texas, July 2, 1933.

[ 32 ]

  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

Ma 4 A 2 tS

1872

Jupce FrepertcK Hucu HeiskeLtt of Memphis,
‘Tennessee, died on September 7th. Judge Heiskell was
eighty-two years old and was one of those few now re-
maining who were students under General Leee. He
had been Judge of the Court of Appeals since 1925,
He was the son of a distinguished Southern general of
Tennessee and a member of the Confederate Congress,
His wife was the daughter of Senator L. Q. C. Lamar
of Mississippi, afterwards an Associate Justice of th
United States Supreme Court. Judge Heiskell was
always interested in Washington and Lee and was
never known to miss a meeting of the Alumni Associa-
tion in Memphis. |

1866 ?

Dr. StannopE McCLetianp Scorr, died Septem

ber 4, 1933. Dr. Scott was born in Lexington, Va.,
in 1850, and was one of that now very greatly de-
creasing class of alumni who are reverently called “The
Lee Alumni of Washington and Lee.” He was one of
the founders of the Kappa Alpha fraternity here Ap
9, 1866.

Memorial to Dr. Easter

Tur University Library has recently received a
valuable addition of 3600 volumes, most of them
French, which constituted the private library of Dr.
De La Warr Benjamin Easter and have been given by
Mrs. Easter to the romance language department. The
books, on the same shelves on which they stood in Dr.
Easter’s study, have been placed in the romance lan
guage seminar on the second floor of the General Li-
brary. The collection will be known as the D. B
Easter Memorial Library.

There are many fine bindings and old and rar
editions among these books. Some of the oldest, dat-
ing from as early as 1531, are displayed in the exhibi-
tion case on the main floor. Besides books in French
there are many in Spanish, and some in Greek, Latin,
German, Italian, and a large number in English.

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee

alumni of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession

to transact business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who

by reason of specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the some profession
are invited to place their cards in the directory.

 

Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
"09
Attorney-at-Law Counsellor-at-Law Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building 100 William Street Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi New York Lynchburg, Virginia

Philip P. Gibson John H. Tucker, Jr.,
"10

E. C. Caffrey,

Attorney-at-Law 09
6 Tucker and Mason
Marcum, Lovins and Gibson Court House Law Offices
First National Bank Building Commercial National Bank Bldg.
: Hackensack, N. J. a
Huntington, W. Va. Shreveport, Louisiana

Elwood H. Seal Carlton D. Dethlefsen Edmund D. Campbell,
"18-'22
Seal and Dice Attorney-at-Law
Attorney-at-Law
General practice in the courts of Suite 301 Bank of America Bldg.
the District of Columbia and c ; Douglas

"a 625 Market Street Douglas, Obear and S

Federal Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Telephone EXbrook 0237 Washington, D. C.

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, °10

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio
Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington

and Lee Alumni have the preterence.

 

 

 

 

 
    
  

/ is WBE
to Satisfy oe

“That's easy...

and they’re MILDER
and they TASTE BETTER.”

 

(hes tertield “&ax

© 1933, Liccett & Myers Tosacco Co.

