Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

 

 

"hen
, e
; & .
3

>
hs

  
 
 

   

> - 5
=
ln, . as ba
gis* AERO IR

7 ‘ ” -
a » ae "7 Pee >» —_

 

 

   

 

 

Top: Concert on the campus—Eddie
Duchin playing—a 1940 innovation.
Center: Alumni President Joe Lykes
leads alumni figure with Mrs. Gaines
assisted by Mr. and Mrs. Ed Brown.
Bottom: The commerce seniors re-
ceiving their B.S. degrees from Dr.
Gaines. First to the right of the
rostrum in the front row is Senator
Henry T. Wickham, 1868, oldest liv-
ing graduate, who gave an
inspiring address.

=< --_- — *

 

 

Appalachian

Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland

A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road
Birmingham, Alabama

John F. Hendon, 1615 North Third Avenue
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia _

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

Dr. George W. Schnath, 734 Miiburn Street,

Evanston, II.
Cincinnati, Ohio

Alfred Kreimer, 2500 Observatory Road
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Cleveland, Ohio

Ben Fiery, Union Commerce Building
Covington, Virginia

R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Danville, Virginia

R. P. Sanford
Detroit, Michigan

Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky

George E. Burks, Commercial Building
Memphis, Tennessee

J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

Gaylord J. Stone, Ft. Worth, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

Bidinced. Virginia

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California

St. Louis, Missouri
E. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State
W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
U peace Pothanks
L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XV JULY 1940 No. 5

 

 

 

Eeditot 2 jc tee Harry K. (Cy) Younc, 1917
Managing Editor....GkORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Prestdeut:::.... 08 3 Dr. R. W. Fowckes, 1915
SECT ORANG. sis i hahias Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Ertasetern aS Dr. ReEtip Waite, 1919

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carro_t MEApE, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
C. T. CHENERY, 1909
Joun C. Morrison, 1925

G. WuiIrTrtLe, 1924

 

Contents for July 1940

PAGE
The College and the Crisis (‘The President’s Page) .............. 3
Colieve Celebrates 19tst' Finals: 22225 2.25.2 ok +
A Dallas Newsman Thinks About the College ......00000..0........ 6
Ehanks:t0p the- Daidter f:230 oa ee ae 7
The 1940 Mock Republican Convention.......0.00.00000.0000000000000-.. 8
Minutes of General Meeting of Alumni............0......0.0.............. 12
RPOIONT Meek TRMOTITOR A cick hot ee Pas in ir 13
The peeretaty’s: Report for 1940 sie AS 14
Class Standing of the Alumni Fund, June 18, 1940................ 16

Class Notes

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The College and the Crisis

(The President’s Page)

TOLD this year’s senior class an actual occurrence in our
recent household history. Last fall we decided to buy
for a small boy a globe with an electric bulb inside, a
clever device for making geography luminous. When the
package arrived in December, we found
on one of the legs a typewritten note care-

sa?

fuly pasted on the wood: “This globe

guaranteed as of September 15, 1939.”
ee

It is probable that every boy in the
civilized world, certainly above the moron
stage, is wondering whether all guaran-
tees prior to September, 1939, have not
become insecure or wholly invalid.

ele

To all thoughtful Americans this war
has come as a shock so great that it has
produced a kind of mental and emotional
paralysis. We react in different ways, pos-
sibly in a variety of ways, always with vehemence of feel-
ing, not often with lucidity of thought or straightfor-
wardness of purpose.

ee

The patriot turns energetically to strengthening na-
tional defense. ‘The humanitarian, staggered by the sheer
volume of human suffering, thinks of modes of relief for
the world’s unparalleled agony. The philosopher seeks
new assurance for his tremulous confidence in authentic
human progress. The Christian, bewildered by an im-
mensity of evil he cannot explain, turns again to his
faith that
“... Somehow good
May be the final goal of ill.”

ok ok K

But these boys of college age, for whom grim destiny
threatens much, and the parents of such boys—to these
the matter has an intense personal significance.

 

Those of us in colleges, privileged to live with the
boys, to help them, and to love them, we share at least
partially in this peculiar personal quality of the world’s
problem. Sar sal
TS ae The colleges mean resolutely to help
our country in any possible fashion. Ded-
cated to the “American way,” if I may
use an oft-quoted but important term, the
institutions of higher learning sincerely
want to serve in the hour of emergency as
well as in the long span of national de-

velopment. seals ae

Granting this fact and emphasizing it,
we feel nevertheless that in all ways short
of the actual emergency, college boys
should be encouraged to take up calmly
the normal program of their lives, the
day’s work and the day’s sport here, the
next phase of life’s task, the brave and
beautiful dream for all of life. Let’s save the boys from
any unnecessary shadows, unnecessary denials, unneces-
sary wreckage of hope.

eee

And the colleges themselves should not be frightened
out of consistent devotion to their central and enduring
purpose. Great clamor may be heard for spectacular em-
phasis on the topical and the practical; but we must not
forget our obligation to acquaint these boys with the rich
backgrounds of culture, to help them re-think the great
thoughts, to guide them in discernment of the great ideals,
spiritual as well as political. For these values, after all,
justify and make precious our “American way.” And to
furnish a leadership that will at once appreciate them and
prove worthy of them, is the heart of our effort.

Pentre hres hock.

-*resident

[3]

 

Tucker with two of his former students, Ed Campbell and
Governor “Rocky” Holt, 1918

A group of the Class of 1940, just become alumni, enjoy the luncheon

College Celebrates I9Ist Finals

ow the other one hundred and ninety Finals would
H compare with the one this year, we have no way of
knowing as we were unable to get back in 1749 and some
of the other years, but at any rate, this was the most suc-
cessful one we ever saw; and this statement is amply
backed up by Mr. Secretary Young who explains that
there were nearly five hundred alumni here, even though
only about 250 registered. “Two hundred and fifty!” ex-
claims Cy—*Why we had seven hundred and fifty plates
ready at the luncheon and at that had to bring on fifty
more when the food ran out!” Which shows that either
there was a large infiltration of subversive elements (like
faculty members and their whole families), or that some-
body had a huge appetitte, or that someone failed to reg-
ister. Anyway, it was the biggest crowd of returning grad-
uates in a long time, and among them were eighteen who
were this year adding their sons to the alumni group.

Perhaps to the dismay of many old-timers who re-
member their importance in former years, the annual
inter-club boat races were not held this year, but other-
wise the Commencement program went off as usual. There
was the Interfraternity-Sigma Ball on Wednesday night,
and on Thursday the meetings of the Board of Trustees
and the Alumni Council, and the arrival of visitors who
began to make the view from our window, which over-
looks practically the whole campus, a very colorful one.

On Thursday afternoon there was an innovation when,
instead of the dansant or concert in the gymnasium which
have been customary for a long time, Eddie Duchin’s band
simply moved out of the sweltering gym to a bandstand
down near the chapel and rendered a splendid series of
musical selections to the delight of several hundred peo-
ple variously reclining on the grass. From enthusiastic
comments, it would appear that this custom will be con-
tinued.

At eight o’clack that evening there was an Alumni
Smoker in the Student Union where old friends gathered
and smoked and talked with faculty members and gen-
erally passed the time pleasantly before the President's
Reception at nine o'clock ; which was gracious as always
and a real treat for an enormous crowd who had the
pleasaure of being greeted by President and Mrs. Gaines
and many members of the University Board. The Senior-
Alumni Ball followed, but as we were unable to attend
it we shall simply refer you to the illustration on the in-
side back cover.

Unless
you have been a stoker aboard ship, you can have no idea

Commencement Day dawned fair—and hot.

 

how it sometimes feels to sit on the rostrum of Lee Chapel
in a heavy academic gown and hood. However, at eleven
o'clock that warm morning, we lined up at Washington
College and marched down to the Chapel between rows of

[4]

»

aati

«ed
6 “$a

- ~ €
+ “Suni Seat

Dr. Wm, E. Dold, 1876, G. D. Letcher, 1888, and Dr. Dold’s son

seniors, many of whom seemed not yet to have got over
their amazement at actually graduating from a college.

The ceremonies (which were broadcast this year to
an overflow crowd sitting in front of the Chapel) went
along as usual with the delivery of scholarships and
awards. There then followed the Valedictory address, de-
livered this year by William LeRoy Burner of Alexan-
dria, Virginia, who, instead of saying “disturbed condi-
tions in the world today are a challenge to modern youth,”
spoke on old John Robinson, uneducated horse-trader and
distiller, but one who did as much as any of the great
benefactors to make Washington and Lee possible.

After thus remembering the Forgotten Man, the cere-
monies proceeded to the delivery of diplomas and the
awarding of honorary degrees to Dr. Kdward E. Gam-
mon, president of Hampden-Sydney College, Doctor of
Laws; the Reverend Mr. Thomas H. Wright of the Rob-
ert EK. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church of Lexington,
Doctor of Divinity; and the Reverend Mr. Holmes Rol-
ston, 1920, of the Bethesda Church of Rockbridge County,
Doctor of Divinity.

Then arose the man who was perhaps the central fig-
ure in this year’s commencement, Senator Henry Taylor
Wickham, 1868, who received a well-deserved Algernon
Sydney Sullivan Medallion and who spoke for the alumni
in place of President Lykes, who was unable to do so.
Though Mr. Wickham was an undergraduate in the days
of Lee, and though he is the oldest living graduate of the
college, he is by no means an old man. Standing erect
there on that platform, speaking with a fine, strong voice,
he seemed not the oldest, but one of the younger men
present, He told the graduates what he had seen in a

 

Stuart Mocre, 1914, third from left, joins three friends: R. C. Wood, 192:

and Ed Bailey and John Drye, 1920

former war and in a conquered country ; he showed them
what they must face in such a world as this today.

Dr. Gaines’ address was one of the finest, perhaps,
ever heard in Lee Chapel, but as we hope to be able to
print most of it on the President’s page, we only say
further that you would have had to hear it to appre-
ciate it fully. It also ought to be said, before the matter of
Commencement ceremonies is left, that the class of 1940
seemed to be an unusually brilliant one academically and
that the prizes and awards given them, which we have not
enough space to list here, were well deserved.

The Alumni Luncheon this year had to be held in the
Student Union and on the lawn between the R. E. Lee
Episcopal Church and the President’s house, as the dis-
trict around the Beanery is a mere scene of devastation
just at present. It turned out on the whole, however, that
this was a much better place anyway. Everyone seemed to
enjoy it, as you can see from the accompanying cuts.

The annual meeting of the alumni was scheduled for
Washington Chapel, was moved to an allegedly cool place
outside Tucker Hall, and then, this spot turning out to be
a sort of improvised oven, was finally held in the Law
Library, which was comparatively cool. Records of the
meeting are printed elsewhere in this issue.

Then at last the reunion classes had their dinners, and
everybody got ready to make a night of it at the Final
Ball, which was Hawaiian this year for some reason or
other and featured Jeis and Eddie Duchin. Both were re-
ceived with unbounded enthusiasm. Being allergic to any
ball that lasts later than eleven-thirty, we did not par-
ticipate in “College Friendships,” six a. m., and ham and

(Continued on page 11)

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Dallas Newsman Thinks About the College

(Reprinted from Lynn Landrum’s column, “Thinking
Out Loud,” in the Dallas News for May 23, 1940.)

baccalaureate orator will soon be abroad in the land.
Growth of a few schools has been so striking that the
question is raised what is to happen to the smaller school.
Big schools with big football teams and big student bod-

( oe MENCEMENT is not far off and the voice of the

ies have a hard time making ends meet, while many of
the little colleges have simply folded up their tents and
struck camp altogether.

The visit to Dallas of President Francis P. Gaines of
Washington and Lee University occurred a number of
weeks ago, but it brought a note of encouragement for the
first-class small school.

In fact, the address of Dr. Gaines made a deep im-
who heard it. Any educator could have
profited from its content.

pression on all

Washington and Lee, as you perhaps know, is older
than the Constitution of the United States itself. Out of
the rich tradition with which it is endowed it has found
a mission wherewith to serve the unguessed future.

That same tradition has given it the courage to resist
some of the trends which are so blatant and blustery in
educational policy elsewhere. Washington and Lee exer-
cises as much care and caution to keep its enrollment low
as most schools exert to keep their enrollment high. The
rule at Lexington, Virginia, is that fewer than a thou-
sand boys is about right. And every boy enters school
knowing that he is a picked man.

That makes a difference in itself. It is bound to.

Some schools proceed on the theory that education is
a right, but this Virginia institution assumes that it is a
privilege—a privilege highly to be prized. Perhaps that
makes for intellectual aristocracy. Perhaps it is taken for
granted on the campus that only gentlemen attend.

However, such exclusiveness as exists is not opera-
tive on either a blood or a money basis. Gentleman is as
gentleman does, in other words. General Lee expects ev-
ery man to do his duty, as it were, and do it handsomely ;
nothing less becomes a gentleman.

Honor flowers not the less winsomely against a back-
ground of good manners.

“It is my undeserved lot,” said President Gaines in the
course of his address, “to live in the home which General
Lee designed and built and lived in himself. The blue-

print of the house is still in the drawer of the General's
desk, with his small, exact handwriting on it. The stone
steps are worn down where the old man’s feet trod; the
knobs of the doors are the same that his hand touched ;
here is the closet for his wife’s clothing, up there the
opening to provide ample ventilation—exactly as_ the
General planned it, I tell you, that means something.”

It does. It means a great deal. As Dr. Gaines puts it,
“the outsider might say that General Lee lived here, but
we on the campus know that General Lee lives here.” The
shadow of another man might be oppressive, but not
Marse Robert's.

Marse Robert was a gentleman.

Imagine, then, a school two hundreds years old, not
big and not worried about it, not in debt, and striving to
grant more degrees, but rather to bestow fewer and
worthier ones, not hiring any athletes, not hoity-toity and
not ashamed.

Imagine a school where students are brethren in the
bonds of courtesy aimid an atmosphere of reverence for
things old and of hospitality to things new, proving all
things and holding fast to that which is good.

This, of course, may not be Washington and Lee as it
actually is. The ideal school does not yet exist. But when
a man loves an institution with a great love and falls to
talking of what it is and is to be, he makes the listener’s
heart glow with his heart and dream answers unto dream.
Francis P. Gaines did Washington and Lee no harm, you
may be sure, in what he said here. But so inspiring was
the picture framed in his affection for its every brick and
stone and blade of grass that he brought hope and inspir-
ation for little schools everywhere.

 

In Memoriam

JosEpH G. Py.er, 1910, of Pasadena, California, died
on April 8, 1940.

Rospert S. McCuintic, 1914, of Monroe City, Mis-
souri, died in St. Louis last March. He had practiced law
for many years in his home town, and had been a State
Senator, and referee for the Missouri Workmen’s Com-
pensation Commission.

Burton S. SANFoRD, 1916, of Ripley, Tennessee, died
on April 3, 1940,

[ 6 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ow

 

At the Senior Banquet, presented by the Alumni Association to the graduating class: Left to right, the

Thanks for the Dinner!

OME readers of this struggling periodical will probably
S be surprised to learn that they were hosts at quite a
large banquet on the fifteenth of last May, and we venture
at this time to extend the thanks of the Class of 1940 to
you and especially to Mr. Joseph T. Lykes, 1909 (whose
generosity certainly made him chief host) for your kind-
ness in serving them filet mignon with mushroom sauce,
orange sherbert, home-made cake, and several other
things.

The 1940 Senior Banquet inaugurates, according to
the plans of your Association, a long line of other Senior
Banquets, to be given each spring by the Association for
the benefit of the young men who are about to join your
ranks.

The purpose of the senior feast is obvious: that any
man who is about to become a Washington and Lee
alumnus ought to go out of school in full realization of
his duties, privileges, and responsibilities. He should feel
these responsibilities in particular, deeply enough at the

time of graduation so that when those first heavy vears of

adjustment to the world outside are over, he will not have
wandered from his old college loyalties.

It was with something like this in mind that Dr.
Gaines, the principal speaker of the occasion, talked bril-
liantly to this year’s class. He showed them by numerous
examples what a select company “this year’s crop” of
graduates will join. He told of man after man who has
left this school and made Washington and [ee as well as
himself a distinguished reputation. Before he got through,
the seniors were very thoroughly convinced of the tra-
dition they will have to carry on: they knew that becom-
ing a Washington and Lee alumnus is not just getting out
of school.

The the Stanford

Schewel, a senior this year in the Law School, who re-

next speaker of evening was
plied to Dr. Gaines on behalf of the students with the
theme that no man could go through Washington and
lee without absorbing its traditions and so becoming a
man of honor in a world where this quality becomes more

(Continued on page 11)

 

speakers’ table and three groups of guests

ba

3

 

At the Mock Republican Convention
of 1940 many of the delegations ap-
peared in appropriate costume

The 1940

Mock

Republican
Convention

EW of you who look at the

pictures accompanying this
article will fail to be reminded of
other days when Washington and
Lee found out for one or the
other major political party who
was going to be its candidate in
the current campaign. Whether or
not this year’s student body has
guessed right again, you will
know by the time this issue
reaches you, but even if Senator
McNary does not carry the Re-
publican Standard in 1940, these
nine hundred embryo politicians
here had a great deal of good,
clean, noisy fun and learned many
a lesson in practical politics last
April 23-25 when their replica of
the Republican National Conven-
tion, after many hours of dead-
lock, selected the Senator as ‘the
next president of the United
States.”

With classes abandoned for
the day, the convention was called
to order by Leo Reinartz, this
year’s basketball captain, and aft-
er a prayer by the Keverend Harry
Philpott, who is in charge of
Christian work on the campus, a
welcome was delivered by Charles
Glasgow, 1909, who represented
the mayor of Lexington. Mr.
Glasgow made the already roar-
ing convention roar louder with
an abundance of good stories. The
keynoter, Representative James
W. Wadsworth of New York,
was then introduced, occasioning
an ovation which lasted ten or
fifteen minutes and probably was
audible at the top of House

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Mountain. Mr. Wadsworth, during the intervals when he
could be heard, then informed the delegates that he was
not heartily in favor of the New Deal, which he accused
of all manner of chicanery, of spending the people's
money, and of leaving us in such a position that we should
be in grave financial danger in case we were drawn into
the present war. The delegates, thoroughgoing Republic-
ans for the moment if not always, seemed definitely to be
swayed by his argument. He left them with the thought
that the best way to defeat the New Deal would be to de-
feat Mr. Roosevelt himself at the polls.

There then followed a night of nominations with can-
didates suggested all the way from Robert H. Taft of
Ohio to Gracie Allen of California. Kit Carson, 1940,
nominated Bernarr McFadden as “the man who rode a
mule all the way from Florida to California; then real-
ized his mistake and walked all the way back.”

salloting then went on all the next day until late that
night it appeared that Senator Vandenberg of Michigan
had won out in his deadlocked fight against Taft of Ohio,
Dewey of New York, and McNary of Oregon. He had,
in fact, won the nomination by a one-vote margin, but at
this dramatic moment, a delegate requested that his vote
for Vandenberg be withdrawn. In spite of some parlia-
mentary objections, this request was granted, thus leav-
ing the convention approximately where it had started
from, and necessitating the abandonment of most classes
the next day.

At the next session, however, to the accompaniment
of a good deal of consternation in some quarters, Senator
Vandenberg’s name was withdrawn, leaving the field open
for Dewey, Taft, and McNary. It would seem, however,
that the former two had been hopelessly equal in strength
all the way through, and a weary convention, after some
more trading of votes, broke wide open and chose Mc-
Nary, with a total of 624 votes, on the seventeenth ballot.

The vice-presidential nomination, with very little op-
position, was handed to Senator H. Styles Bridges of New
Hampshire, and the boys went home with hoarse voices
and a new knowledge of how we get our presidents.

Never having seen an American political convention,
we are not competent to say how close this year’s effort
came to resembling one, but we know that no pains were
spared by a faculty-student committee to do everything
in just the right way, and we believe that we shall not have
to go to Philadelphia this year to learn what the Repub-
licans do in convention assembled. The gymnasium was
decorated to resemble a hall; there were candidates’ pic-
tures all about, and there was a platform with an appro-
priate number of miscrophones. Delegates were in cos-
tumes representing negroes, Indians, cowpunchers, gold

mine prospectors, sharecroppers, Kentucky Colonels, and
whatever else was thought to be appropriate. The Iowa
delegates rang cowbells, while the Texas group answered
with revolvers. Beer cans, probably fictitious, were rolled
around the floor. Whatever else the whole thing lacked,
it had plenty of color and more than a plenty of noise. (A
motion that fire arms be abolished was unanimously de-
feated. )

The next issue of The Ring-tum Phi ran an editorial
in which it was claimed that hardly any of the students
who voted for McNary had ever heard of him before or
knew anything about him then, but perhaps this is typical
of delegates. At any rate, it was a good convention, and
we doubt that any other college, this year or any other,
could show anything to match it.

 

Dr. Joun ‘TALLMAN JARRETT, 1934, was married
May 1 at the Tabernacle Baptist Church in Richmond to
Miss Anne Mildred Wood. Many friends will remember
Jack as an outstanding pitcher for the baseball team and
a basketball player of note. The couple will be at home
after the first of June at 2700 Idlewood Avenue.

 

Past Alumni Presidents Ed Caffroy, 190), and
Walter McDonald, 1910

[9 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Three Fathers Photographed with Their Sons at the 1940 Finals

In the Senior Class There Were Eighteen Sons of Alumni

 

Above: Howard Macfarlane, 1913, and his son, Hugh

 

Ed Rietze, 1925, and Pete Mitchell, 1925.
Joe Mighell, Jr., 1940 and his father, Pete came the longest distance — from
Class of 1913 Sao Paulo, Brazil

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Thanks for the Dinner!

(Continued from page 7)
and more at a premium; and that this year’s class should
be always mindful of what it owes to the college.

Cy Young gave a perfectly factual talk, finally, in
which he educated the class as to the mechanics of the
alumni office so that they will be better able to cooperate
with that hard-working organization in the future.

Sitting there as what we fancifully called “the repre-
sentative of the press” we could not help feeling, from
the eager interest expressed on 150 young faces, that the
Alumni Association was doing a very fine thing in this
new custom, and we believe that if you had been there at
your own dinner, you too would have agreed that the
Senior Banquet should definitely become an = annual
custom.

Alumnus Wins Pulitzer Award

Ge ea of the last few years in particular will be

 

interested to learn of the honor recently conferred
on Ross P. Schlabach, 1939, who was presented with one
of three traveling scholarships awarded each year by the
Pulitzer Foundation to a student of the Columbia School
of Journalism. The
scholarship amounts
to $1,500 and
originally intended to

Was

allow a graduate stu-
dent to travel to Eu-
rope. This year, how-
ever,and for obvious
reasons, there is an
which will
permit the holder to
study

option
the foreign
press in South Amer-
ica. Schlabach will
observe conditions in

 

Brazil and Argentina.

Ross entered here in 1936 after a year spent at the
United States Naval Academy where he had had to re-
sign on account of ill health. At Washington and Lee he
was an outstanding scholar, was made a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, and received his A.B. degree Magna cum
laude. He was president of Phi Kappa Psi and won sev-
eral scholarships and other honors.

After graduation he entered the Columbia School of
Journalism where he completed his course on May 17
with a Master of Science in Journalism.

Changes in the University Board

THIS SPRING saw two changes in the membership and
organization of the Board of Trustees which will be noted
with interest.

Mr. Herbert Fitzpatrick, 1892,
as Chairman of the Board of the Chesapeake and Ohio

who recently reti red

Railroad, was made Rector, taking the place of the late
George Walker St. Clair. Mr. Fitzpatrick has been a
member of the University Board since 1931.

Mr. Harrington Waddell, 1893, of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, who has served as a Board member since 1915, re-
signed to the regret of the other members who appointed
a committee to prepare a resolution of appreciation for his
long and faithful service. Mr. Waddell, principal of the
lexington High School, and familiar to many alumni as
a local figure, was the oldest Board member in point of
service.

 

.
College Celebrates I9Ist Finals
(Continued from page 5)
eggs; but we talked next day with some who did and were
still able to talk, and we are certain that the Finals of
1940 ended as they all should in the model of a perfect

week-end.

Maybe if you didn’t make it this year, you can get
here next to mingle with your old friends at the 101st an-
niversary of the association. It will be a mistake if you
don't. These Finals are something not to be missed.

 

WitiiaAM H. HILvikr, 1938, a junior this year in the
Law School of the University of Michigan, has recently
been made editor-in-chief of the Michigan Law Review.
This position recognizes his superior academic record and
the quality of former work done for the Review.

ee ee a ae eS en cee ee, ae, eS ee ee en eee we ee

Have You Renewed Your Subscription ?

More than three hundred subscriptions expire with
this issue which we strongly hope will not be allowed
to lapse. $2.50 will renew your subscription, but a
$5.00 contribution to your Class Fund will bring you
the magazine free of charge for a year. If a check is
sent direct to the Alumni Office, your Class Agent
will be duly notified, and your magazine subscrip-
tion extended for a full year.

Why not renew your subscription to the Alumni
Magazine today?

~~ ee ee ee ee ee ee ae ee ae Se SS Oe UO le
Lp i hi it th edi i hi i ti i hi i hi i ah ih i,

 

nh tnt lll dll ll ll di de de ee ee ae ee ee ne

 

 

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, 1915, newly-
elected President of the Alumni
Association

    

ey

Es

a
hs

Clarence R. Avery, 1914, who received
the Thomas Nelson Page
award for 1940

Minutes of General Meeting of Alumni

June 7, 1940

HE annual general meeting of the Washington and
ie alumni was held on Friday, June 7, in the Law
Library. The meeting was called to order to 2 p. m. by
President Joseph T. Lykes, and on motion the reading of
the minutes of the previous meeting was dispensed with.

President Francis P. Gaines greeted the alumni with
a short speech of welcome, outlining recent physical
changes in the University.

Mr. Stuart Moore, Treasurer, gave his report, which
was accepted, approved, and ordered filed.

Cy Young, Secretary, outlined in his report the prog-
ress of the Association during the years of his incum-
bency, and it was accepted and approved.

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes made a report on a meet-
ing of representatives of the Alumni Association and
representatives from the University Board of Trustees,
held on April 10, 1940, reading the following resolutions
adopted by that meeting and placing them before the gen-
eral meeting. On motion these resolutions were passed :

[12]

First: After thorough investigation and con-
sideration of plans and policies in effect at other
universities, your Committee wishes to recommend
that the expense of the Alumni Office be assumed
by the University and that the Office be under the
administrative direction of the University.

Sreconp: It is further recommended that in the
administration of the Alumni affairs of the Uni-
versity, the advice and counsel of the Alumni off-
cials shall be earnestly solicited.

Tuirp: It is also recommended that the Class
Agent Plan shall be continued but under the direc-
tion of a Special Committee, appointed by the
President of the Alumni Association, and that this
Committee shall act after consultation with the
President of the University.

KourtTH : It is also recommended that at a spe-
cial meeting to be held before Graduation Kxer-
cises, the officials of the Alumni Association and
the President of the University shall thoroughly
acquaint the members of present and all succeed-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ing Senior Classes, with the objectives of the

Alumni Association and their responsibilities to the

University, as Alumni.

The Nominating Committee presented the names of
the following men to fill vacancies on the Alumni Board
of Trustees, and they were unanimously elected :

John C. Morrison, 1925, Charleston, West Virginia.

Randolph G. Whittle, 1924, Roanoke, Virginia.

C. T. Chenery, 1909, New York.

Dr. Reid White, 1919, Lexington, Virginia.

The following were presented and elected to the Ath-
letic Council :

Amos Bolen, 1934, Huntington, West Virginia.

Karl Fitzpatrick, 1929, Roanoke, Virginia.

Matthew Paxton, 1918, Lexington, Virginia.

Charles Glasgow, 1909, Lexington, Virginia.

The Thomas Nelson Page medallion, which is awarded
to the individual alumnus whose efforts in behalf of the
University have come particularly to the attention of the
University officials during the current year, was presented
to Clarence Renshaw Avery, 1914, of Chattanooga, Ten-
nessee.

The concluding item on the agenda was the Presi-
dent's report, in which Mr. Lykes included the announce-
ment of the election of Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, of
Richmond, as President for the coming year.

At the conclusion of Mr. Lykes’ talk, Mr. Roscoe
Stephenson proposed from the floor that the Association
extend to Mr. Lykes an expression of their appreciation
for his splendid work of the last two years, and that he
be given a standing vote of thanks at that time, which
was done.

Report of the Treasurer
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc. — May 31, 1939 to June |, 1940

RECEIPTS

Bank Balance May 31, 19339..........................0.- $ 3,004.47
Contributions to Alumni Fund.......................... 6,310.67
Sale of Commemorative Plates..............0000........ 4,951.25
NE SETUR 5. Le Aaa Peete d ledhescatscie 170.75
MG@RRZING OUDSCIIPHORS 325.0225; Sos jiiedescsscceiveaecs.. 127.50
SPUN AE VOT EASING i S50ic ceca. S ceteris th Los scdonseus 58.18

$14,623.82

DISBURSEMENTS

CFRERIINLIES 5; |, 2.5.02 cs ps cote a pgadsarde ven eeeic cans $. 513.29
SEMA ha Tacs ccd sans Welcecd ianvi ve oeame Mamata emia hake 233.89
ERC NSUNI eos 2: oak eu elt cdeas Ulpane aia 114.64
RM Goi hen, Feiss Sen ch ssc calls sad uae det aa 155.00
|” GE aA eae Mare Bete Ge eee ES ge 2,033.20
I Si 05,24 dan dead cnc Pade Re 1,158.90
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers........................ 613.05
PENNE 52 is. ce tins « cascesbich-evecd hachbaowstl 784.26
Deposit on Plates and Advertising.................... 2,346.26
Pu rE PaCS > 52.35, cece en 727.34
ncn fos o die. och cc cdhe<gsta nes accumthn 289.84
Rae 356 Soy dh oc yciveniv cebu doled tesehowe ones 37.87
RIEU 0). ri lags can, stow Nb saci chides owe 5.00
I Ne nai Si toi Dec iits ve bs each asdateas AS

$ 9,012.69

RECAPITULATION
Receipts and Money in Bank............................ $14,623.82
9,012.69

Disbursements

$ 5,611.13
TRIAL BALANCE

 

Dr. i

A GVOrtSING WS oo chats tai. 2: > O98
Baleting sucess ater c.ocae $ 155.00
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers . GERD 5 ivtziceettaties
PODS AMIE Ahk A itetvcevcis see 6,305.52
Alumni Ifund Expense.................. TOE PE ein
CONARES SIO AF RA A ieee Re: Masta.
General Account (Net Worth).... .........000.... 3,004.47
DERM sa lees it 10S fOr Saas
(RAS IIN  r 5 sdewee CMA 5 Ret
OPER SHIMON, 5 55a cc o56uc ccc gutiaphsasese GEER nc spde
RIMM GARNET oi 5A dvc. Ske hasikes REG.O8) 2 nice
RRM LUA hee tag ccs iva baci deri: ovat Race au 2,604.99
Rockbridge National Bank ........... PLAGE ne ak
SEINE  AROCOUMIE 5.25. 55385,7.55,4 overt se LL DO ME to a eee
SPUGNAE Mad TIB iors i hora ta ui Agence 170.75
araveune Accowmnt:, i508. ici ae ce ISAO eis

$12,144.91 $12,144.91

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Secretary’s Report for 1940

Cy Young Explains the Functions of an Alumni Association

N my annual report to the General Alumni Association

at inals I have tried to give you a resume of the work
of the Association during each year. As this marks the
completion of my tenth year as your Secretary, I should
like to broaden this report and, as briefly as possible, re-
view the progress made by the Association during this
decade.

On assuming the duties of Secretary in May, 1940,
after the Association had been without a Secretary for a
year, it was natural to find that its activities had fallen to
alow ebb. The Alumni Office was housed in an old build-
ing (now the site of the Student Union) which had been
condemned as unsafe for several years; there was no such
thing as a bank balance; the office equipment was inade-
quate, and what there was of it was dilapidated.

My first efforts were directed toward getting the As-
sociation on its feet financially; to put THe ALUMNI
MAGAZINE on a self-supporting basis and to realize at
least enough profit from its publica-
tion to furnish postage. At that time
we had approximately 250 subscrib-
ers, and the magazine was issued
“every now and then.’ We now have

1200

subscribers, and for the past

eight years there have been five is-
sues annually. We cansider THE
ALUMNI MAGAZINE of great im-

portance as a means of contact be-
tween alumni and their old friends
and also as a channel of information
about the progress of the University.

In the fall of 1930 I turned my
attention toward the formation of lo-
cal alumni chapters. At that time
there were only ten or twelve of
these organizations, only a few of
which were active. Today we have
42 local chapters, from New York
to Los Angeles and from Chicago
to Miami. At least 35 of these chap-
ters are very active, and a few of the

a ee
.

«ee *, ve
Pe wee . ee
: vO. a

inactive ones are at such great dis-
tance from the University as to make

frequent meetings impracticable.

ar ee
eS

a ae te
Reet wash, ais ks

-

 

+

We caught Dr. Livingston Smith, 1896,
discussing Math with one of his former 7
students, Ed Brown, 1911

| should like to impress upon you how dependent the
University and the Association are upon these organiza-
tions of alumni. Their most important service has been
to keep us supplied with an ever-increasing stream of the
most desirable students in each locality. I believe that al-
most all of our chapters realize that they are not organ-
ized for social purposes only and appreciate and accept
their responsibility to the University.

To my mind the outstanding event in the progress of
the Association in the past ten years was the adoption of
the Class Agent Plan. The main objective of this plan 1s
to create an Alumni Fund for the service of the Univer-
sity, and in the eight years of its operation this fund has
amounted to $36,000, representing contributions from ap-
proximately 2,200 different alumni. Many of these men
have contributed annually and others more or less regu-
larly. The Fund has shown a steady increase, and the re-
port on page 13 represents the largest amount that I have
had the pleasure of announcing at
any annual meeting.

Entirely aside from the financial
importance of this plan, it has been
the means of reviving the interest of
hundreds of alumni in the activities
of the University and keeping them
in touch with former classmates. Let-
ters have been received from men
with whom the school had been out
of touch for fifty vears, expressing
their approval and appreciation of
these contacts. We appreciate, more
than anything else, the letters from
alumni who have been unable to make
a monetary contribution, but annual-
ly reply to their class agent’s letter.

| should like again to express my
appreciation of the work of the sev-
eral hundred class agents who have
accepted this responsibility over the
6 past eight years, unselfishly giving of
geet their time and effort to make the
success of the plan possible.

There have been very few un-
pleasant incidents during my _ te

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Po ay oP
es ‘
Saat. :
i: ed

 

. ee ey ae
4 — a mS
ee “2%. ,

se ca - 5
as

Talking over old times at the Alumni Luncheon. Standing,
left to right: Alumni President Joe Lykes, 1909; Roscoe
Stephenson, 1909; Shack Bagley, 1907; sitting:
Charlie Glasgow, 1909

years of service as your Secretary, and I am deeply grate-
ful for the cooperation [| have received from all alumni
and especially from the presidents of the organization
during that period: Judge EK. C. Caffey, Walter Mce-
Donald, Wm. ‘T. Claudy, Clarence L. Sager, and our re-
tiring president, Joseph T. Lykes.

There is no unanimity of opinion as to what the place
of an alumni association should be in the University pic-
ture. In fact there are even those who do not understand
the place that a university president and board of admin-
istrators should occupy. As your Secretary, my views may
be of some interest.

The president of the University should run the show.
He should be the abiter of educational policies, the leader
of the faculty, the translator of the University’s needs to
the board of trustees, the alumni, and the general public.

A board of trustees should administer funds; that is,
invest the University’s endowment and tell the president
what he can spend. A Board should be the final authority
over matters which make public relations rather than edu-
cational policy. An intelligent Board would not want to
meddle in faculty matters.

With a strong, young, vigorous and personable presi-
dent such as Dr. Gaines, the President and Board of
Washington and lee conform to this pattern.

An alumni association has nothing to do with the ad-
ministration of the University’s affairs. It 1s only when
a president and a board fail to measure up to standard
that the alumni step in and take hold. Fortunately, this
has never happened to Washington and Lee.

As the board and president should attend to the fi-
nancial and educational matters of the University as well
as the direction of its policies, what is left for an alumni
association ? The answer may be disappointing to alumni
who have other ideas and think they should have an active
part in the handling of its affairs. The purpose of an
alumni association is to stimulate the interest of the thou-
sands of alumni throughout the land, keeping them in-
formed on university affairs and acquainting them with
the activities of their former school friends. An associa-

.

tion should serve as a good-will agency “selling” the pub-
lic in general on the merits of the University and welding
the alumni together into an enthusiastic supporting group.
An association should also be the means of obtaining con-
tributions for University purposes.

Some may scoff at my opinion. Some may believe that
my idea reduces an alumni association to a cross between

¥
a

 

Bill Raftery, 1915, and Coach Fletcher

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

an advertising agency and a collection agency. Nothing
can be more important than teaching alumni to spend
money on their alma mater.

A university cannot prosper without an interested
alumni group. Whenever there is a great crisis in the af-
fairs of a university, it is the alumni who must see it
through. It is therefore imperative to maintain a strong
association.

With pardonable pride we look upon our last decade
as one of progress. Our association now is an active and
powerful organization. We should not forget, however,
that our Alumni Association has functions entirely dif-

ferent from those of the University Board, just as the
Board itself has dissimilar functions from the President's
office. Each of the three should fulfill its duties and as-
siduously avoid exercising the prerogatives of the others.
All three are vital component parts upon which the future
greatness of Washington and Lee depends.

ot

Alumni Secretary

 

Class Standing of the Alumni Fund, June 18, 1940

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
1869-91 ...... PE ieticnhe © 60.00... 0i0c5i cise tine Alumni Office
ROB codececs ES assesses REO NR cs escnicenie William C. Morton
Bigdcilenam GEOG sc isiedasnicosbueiuneenieeenle B. A. Judd
Be daic ai chcen* te eosadesune ROOD aside ckceitoentan Alumni Office
Rr oikictecacea'< Skea PEA G ciessss sscsvdcecucdeaiiaon Alumni Office
Biotec. Pas $A Sick vasninsotchossnecaameainl J. W. Lattomus
TTB Fe ciod. le. <tedties DOT MUDD. ixijcicseceicadomaclieaaae Alumni Office
POO Tes scat Bo focccenttn 212 OR sc Edward A. O'Neal
PT I ca sovsi sis bestedgses LO 0D a sichnsnadencraral chasse J. W. Garrow
**%1900.......<<0s Discsh Soke SO i ake. oc. ceceene R. A. Watson
TR licehcvens Dd cbaseiadk La AN caye siete Matthew Page Andrews
WE ast aca | 122 SO rivals insoinesctsaneeee J. Wood Glass
PP Sik cosncvnes «RR 1S as cmodvcine Dr. Herbert S. Osburn
WT icincctiis tales 48:00. cca eee K. I. McKay
NS was sind cncck > revecciccto. | 11 gh -Decbewce sin’ dematicantlayichoaiiel anna IRE Eos
190653 re 109.50... B. J. Mayer
ROOT as asacak ii steniceis BPs eckieaies Dr. D. W. M. MacCluer
OE FO Pi civasinselel Netbaneons Zo LAvaAsinusceiticcaeiels Horace W. Phillips
1908 4... Mie te BED siscconsdescctie bouts Dozier DeVane
Pk SUPA. ck chcteebaanitionces OS OU iivvin.cxsnteitnaaees Kester W. Denman
##%1909 Lo. .cccs. eee iaces LARS 0A beccinsisclenanae Reuben Ragland
TON Awwsinc eh citiis enbie EGS aes seiccpe Giorgia Joseph R. Blackburn
¥6%1910 L,...:cc0 Be i Bo Or ontniccsuese Hugh R. Hawthorne
Ree Phen nace Bitatiesiins PA, sosteoseshensineecacdeanel James M. Barker
POF EOE? Dacian sth ais icces BOE ierisiiccichcagiecte cai Robert A. Russell
PES LE Pi sicnwnsus i dekicebesth BIG i Kotsclnsticiasedesesapaaae Dan Owen
51912 Tiwi. ice a Re HI sein ock cess cu ccaseesesttnatanioatnale Wayne Ely
91S Aiwa Bit secceus DE Oe os cckaoasiecgsatlerinea camels John L. Crist
ROR POR Reid x Res Oy ii iisabisnnscad Howard P. Macfarlane
1944 A. Piticiditustace DT i ieth ivcdscaioicosanlaecenaleiae W. J. Wilkins
NOTA Ridius Rata tents DAMM ds sdcocdbeksetcnadttiaeiine Ben D. Smith
SUT Ass Eiht Sis dots DEF Biletinckisnicectcssthiecedion Paul C. Thomas
CRF TOL Tina: Bias ates BROMO cevckindsicssiicd teotennn alana K. L. Shirk
1916 A........ Lis scdladecw GORI feladicacd- hd eccaleasiae Frank O. Steele
*##1916 L......... Fh nbihih tie BA a icaihcaictvaeoaains Robert W. Curtis
C879 17 Asiatic PGi aitesens PEF I ati ins scutes aida deabaigh J. L. Williams
DOE FT | Ge eats Lafe B. Chafin
ee OTS Sa PGi ds ccctce FOR ads uisis ip rescscarsiteaae John L. McChord
ISR 6 a es Ges Disertka atc paces temee aves Alumni Office

 

*More contributors than last year.
**\ ore money than last year.
***\More contributors and more money.

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
1920 A........ PO scvicvaees BOO i vsccckchamiplcs Thomas McA. Stubbs
PRP IE Batnsiniss. Decdasthvais DORI ah vss ecchanceieantbnies Pinkney Grissom
PME i erstans Ee axtecletuhes His evvevesvoon eats John L. Patterson
OT Sis. te Br 3, SR iii inet iahanetbscttokd William M. Tuck
PT Ee Phsevicees BO ivusaseecws Dares dbicrogtosanal Troy C. Musselwhite
UNA Rie Wenens” Qvicasheubags RR cdbihe dt cigs ticacyboubvertensd W. E. Neblett
*##1923 A........ DB sdsessidien OS MP Oici td innhaligsinstldions Joseph R. Long
SED Wiiierins “Scmivcareeins Eis cilia aitWiadeercscisint Cyrus W. Hall
RP L924 Acs. Rb tataiiees TERRA il sti vers basnantnchoinedicoes Otis Howe
PERE Bei ncussd ca ed hii steis ihaeibion ds John M. Lovelace
Pe EEO A... : icnsdecbeisasalionss FOS FI atid sis Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway
1 Be cieiasts Sa cévclosbioipastsuens George Wilson, Jr.
***19206 A........ 50-44 86.00........ Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr.
NE icicerigks Wisthuasneet eth tis ictbailods das Earl Valentine
PGE Pisiion x Ede cece Pi td ies ida wintes W. E. Gage, Jr.
RUE Raisins Bait ee RE cc dace ccbcesdin 0: George D. Varney
1928 A........ Gian SUMROMN as sei kigsbeatibeccnsicnce Kdward H. Miller
pica’ 1. RE Shi daanted abe teigsbissiocodsussis R. W. Jordan, Jr.
AS Pee cic aRtenicks Riot td tac ide p tite cernbes’ kK. F. Madison
Pt BOMM Ltecsitov ia.’ atin eciebics Se eiickgunignchighisvorcesabes Philip R. Becker
1930 A........ Teak atbihe I  eetaiedshatinsoebetcs Kdward S. Graves
BOSD Tossecesscs aissivat nial El ipisdirtanubesetae vines Leonard H. Davis
EOE LA cc esiece Biiice theakele Ne Shas Sikacs Singavsccoes Ben M. Ayars
WRT A EN Ld.sccvsee WP cciobcesith PE ct biet cokes csédcace QO. J. Wilkinson, Jr.
POF IIS! Aijesincs 1G..dainel FA icthektintneies R. Leighton McKinney
BWIe Mieseseccne eae I ek fae ianendsnd Judge D. J. Savage
POL Peldh. Pik s-saccele Duseawinsats Beak sto tht veka ts Luther Violett, Jr.
Pe LE Bigs icectee Dia apithaass RMT sein tisciilatdbice ck ogar William F. Stone
SE Ph cirsccs Diva conesites EM dilate ekpintiors Rev. Darby W. Betts
el ae = eV Sl dete pocrhaeechiepidioven hear ook’ Taylor Jones
FPPTISS A cicccie. Be ents Paced sseheies hachaal ones L. P. Gassman
PO IS Ly siccovse Bist sink LF John Meredith Graham, Jr.
EG Piackncns Eadivkownthe Pets sicccticctmedateketuadel Angus Powell
BONED SeSins ccs &. checkndibhase © oh eed tahini deste William H. Seaton, Jr.
NE Piso inte Ph beanie Pa aiinin iiss ech vicke Fielden Woodward
WEE Bibisessns > Dyaivdcumonl IU siivkcendvcinss Stanley C. Higgins, Jr.
*4** 1938 A........ | RS. PE Ai ebrsbclercitent stele Harry M. Philpott
PO PONY Dts vine: Goosecbacgurs FA eb AdedSvigny celine William L. Wilson
1939 A........ [14 cs RNG eines Kak de ic abd Allen T. Snyder
RD Reibirsinns< faved ncisines Ne ah a ele ot J. Vaughan Beale
Non-grads 4............ PRN scare cide kchinncareedeciodeeh Alumni Office
Totals ...... | aa $ 5,986.15

[16]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1893
DupLEY PENDLETON is Dis-
tric Sales Representative of the
Buell
Inc., Bessemer Building, Pitts-

Engineering Company,

burgh, Pennsylvania. He mar-
ried Miss Gertrude Lake of Bal-

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcue-
SON is practicing medicine in
Richmond, Virginia. He is a
member of the University Board
of Trustees.

1903

B. F. Comps is senior mem-

 

 

timore, Maryland, and they have
two sons, Dudley, Jr., and James Lake, both of whom
are graduates of Carnegie Institute of ‘Technology.

D. Hunter Hurraker is a physician in El Paso,
Texas, with offices in the Roberts-Banner Building.

James B. Buttirr is a Professor in the Department
of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

Dr. GeorcE BoLLine LEE is still practicing medicine
in New York City, with offices in The Plaza. He is a
member of the University Board of Trustees.

1898

Davin M. BarcLay is with the United States Tariff
Commission, Washington, D. C. He lives at the Cordova
Apartments, Twentieth and Florida Avenue.

Wittiam A. Apair is County Treasurer of Rock-
bridge County, Virginia.

Cot. WARREN W. WUHITESIDE is operating the Breed-
ing and Purchasing Station for the Army at Front Royal,
Virginia. They have over five thousand acres of beautiful

mountain pastures at the entrance of the m

Skyline Drive.

1899
W.C. Watson lives at 45 Smith Street,
West Haven, Connecticut. He says: “Up
here in Yankee Land, in the shadow of
Yale itself, I boast of the old place and the
professors they had while we were there.”

1902

‘ ; s é s W Witt xt a if ”
D. Kk. Wrrr is Special Agent for the Mi aeZay i

New Hampshire Fire Insurance Company,
Manchester, New Hampshire. His offices
are in the Krise Building, Lynchburg, Va.

      
  
 

 

ber of the law firm of Combs
and Combs, First National Bank Building, Prestonsburg,
Kentucky. He has practiced law continuously since leav-
ing Washington and Lee.

R. A. Rurr is still in charge of coal mining operations
in the heart of the Pocahontas Field.

A. B. Younc is chairman of the Social Welfare Board
of California. He is also lecturing at California Institute
of Technology.

A. G. Davis lives in Lewisburg, West Virginia, and
has many pleasant recollections of Washington and Lee.

1904
Lyte M. Morrerv, after leaving the University, took
his theological course at Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond, Virginia. For several years his work was in
the Far East, but most of the time it has been in this
country. He was married last October.

Artuur Tass went into business with his father in
1904 with the Tabb Storage Warhouse in Louisville,
Kentucky, and has continued in charge of the business
since his father’s death in 1920.

T. DwiGut SLOAN is Superintendent of
the Flagler Hospital, St. Augustine, Fla.

R. W. Baker has served as Mayor of
Petersburg, West Virginia, twelve times.
He has seven children, the youngest grad-
uating from high school last spring.

LeWricht BROWNING is_ practicing

law in the Second National Bank Building,
Ashland, Kentucky.

=
en

Seer,
mr

1906

CHARLES A. DUNLAP lives in Welling-

ni yA
MON (1, res

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ton, Kansas. He is still working for the A. T. & S. F.
Railroad, and would be glad to see any of the class com-
ing his way.

Ketty W. TRIMBLE is with the United States De-
partment of the Interior, Geological Survey. His address
is: Section Chief, U. S. Geological Survey, Washing-
ton, D.C,

Water DuNLApP lives at 4517 Hawthorne Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

1907
W. L. Lorp is still teaching at Woodberry Forest. He
is Secretary and Treasurer of a summer camp, Camp
Carolina, at Brevard, North Carolina, of which D. Meade
Sernard, LL.B. 1905, is Director.

Joun W. FLANNAGAN, Jr., is Congressman from the
Ninth Dictrict of Virginia. His home is in Bristol.

K. Crype Hoce is with the Lathrop-Hoge Construc-
tion Company, 1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PowELL GLAss is thankful that nothing has happened
to him in the past year. He says that usually he can write
of a hunting or automobile accident, or something of the
sort, but that for the past year the even tenor of his way
has not been disturbed. He is the publisher of the Lynch-
burg News.

1908

Dozier A. DEVANE is a member of the law firm of
DeVane, Andrews and Patterson, Florida Bank Build-
ing, Orlando, Florida.

Hiram Dow reports a meeting of twelve Washington
and lee alumni in Roswell, New Mexico. He is a mem-
ber of the firm of Hervey, Dow, Hill and Hinkle, Ros-
well, New Mexico.

RAY Ropinson lives in Winchester, Virginia.

ROBERT S. KEEBLER is on the legal staff of the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, Washington, D. C.

Marvin CopENHAVER is with the Marion Hardware
and Supply Company, Marion, Virginia.

Joun M. Brerer lives at 98 Collins Road, Waban,
Massachusetts.

RicHARD LEE PAGE is at the Monticello Arcade Build-

ing, Norfolk, Virginia.

1909
O. R. Prick is a Valuation Engineer with the Western
Maryland Railroad, Baltimore, Maryland.

W. T. DELAPLAINE is with the Great Southern Print-
ing and Manufacturing Company, publishers of The
News and The Frederick Post, Frederick, Maryland. His
son graduated with the degree of A.B. last commence-
ment.

1910

H. A. Derr is still with the Marietta Paint and Color
Company, Marietta, Ohio. His son was in last year’s
graduating class.

RAYMOND KENNy is manager of the Social Security
Board at Clarksburg, West Virginia. He resides at Graf-
ton, West Virginia, and his duties have taken him into
fifteen counties of north-central West Virginia where he
has constantly the pleasure of encountering former
friends and associates from Washington and Lee.

Hucu M. Wirr is Special Agent of the Insurance
Company of North America, 408 American Building,
Richmond, Virginia, where he has been for the past nine-
teen years. He is a widower with one son who is now
nine years old. He expects to enter him at Washington
and Lee in the usual course of events.

Joun H. Tucker, Jr., has been elected the First
President of the Louisiana State Law Institute, a law
reform and legal research agency created by the legisla-
ture of Louisiana. This organization is probably without
exact parallel in the United States. He is a member of the
law firm of Tucker & Mason, Commercial National Bank
Building, Shreveport, Louisiana.

Brown D. ‘TrustLow is still with Coyle & Richardson,
Charleston, West Virginia. He is an interested and active
alumnus.

Lewis GINTER Cooper lives in Greenville, North
Carolina.

Brian BEtL is Chief of Bureau, The Associated
Press, 330 Star Building, Washington, D. C.

A. Dana Hopcpon, writing a year ago last May, says
he is still American Consul assigned to Berlin, Germany.

R. T. Stinson is practicing law in Durant, Oklahoma,
with offices in the Sawyer Building.

LAWRENCE KE. GOLDMAN is a member of the law firm
of Goldman & Koenigsdorf, 1111-16 Rialto Building,
Kansas City, Missouri.

C. H. MarsTILLer is located at Elkins, West Vir-
ginia. He has two children, one a boy 19 who entered the

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

United States Naval Academy last June, and the other a
daughter 10.

H. L. Crowcey is Principal of the Pocahontas High
School, Pocahontas, Virginia. He is married and has two
boys, one now in college and another whom he hopes to
send to Washington and Lee.

A. H. Hopkins is Judge of the Circuit Court of
Franklin County, Rocky Mount, Virginia.

Jesse A. JACKSON, JR., is employed by the Hope Nat-
ural Gas Company as one of its abstract attorneys in the
land department. His home is in Grants-
ville, West Virginia. He is married and
has four children, two boys and two
girls.

Sam HoNAKER is with the State of
California Reclamation Board, with
offices in the State Office Building,
Sacramento, California. They have
charge of the flood control project on
the Sacramento and the San Joaquim
Rivers.

DAN OweEN is Distributor of the
Southern States Cooperative, Feed,
Fertilizer, Spraying Materials, Or-
chard and Farm Supplies, at Crozet, Virginia. He has a
son in the freshman class this year.

Dr. Bos Hoop, for the past three years has been em-
ployed as Director of the Crippled Children’s Division of
the Children’s Bureau, in the United States Department
of Labor.

ALLAN McDoweE vt has been teaching mathematics
at Kent School, Kent, Connecticut, for the past seventeen
years. He is married and has three daughters, aged
twenty-one, seventeen and eleven.

A. Mason Harnrts is Chief of Bureau, Department of
Public Works, Bureau of Streets, 217 Governor Street,
Richmond, Virginia.

H. E. Porrer is practicing law in Philadelphia, with
offices in the Integrity Building.

1913
Puitip P. Gipson is now engaged as special counsel
for the city in a large flood wall development for Hunt-
ington, West Virginia.
CARTER GLAss, JR., is publisher of the Daily Advance,
Lynchburg, Virginia. His son is a freshman in the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School this year.

   
 

5. C. Ross lives at West Point, Mississippi, but spends
much of his time in Brooklyn, New York.

EDWARD SHEFFEY, II, lives at Apartment 203, 1657
Thirty-First Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Ben IF. Figry is still a member of the law firm of
Baker, Hostetler and Patterson, Union Commerce Build-
ing, Cleveland, Ohio. He says it would be a great pleas-
ure to welcome any of the members of the Class of 1913
who come to Cleveland.

Puittie P. Gipson is practicing law under the firm
of Marcum & First
Huntington National Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia. A great
part of his work for the past three

name Gibson,

or

ws
—
wae

  

years has been liquidating insolvent
Bt: sobanks.
Fe

  
 

BEIRNIE HARPER has been operating
'Y the Yantis-Harper Company, Distribu-
* tors of Firestone Products for the past
twenty years, at Fort Smith, Arkan-
sas, starting as the pioneer tire service
station in that city. His son, Beirnie,
graduated from Washington and Lee

 
 
  

=~ ’
ae
ou'™= © :

- in June, where he made his letter in
football and track for the last three years, and served as
President of Finals in June.

Howarp |,. Rospinson has completed four years as
United States Attorney and is now busily engaged in the
practice of law. He is a member of the firm of Robinson
and Stump, Union National Bank Building, Clarksburg,
West Virginia.

Henry B. Goop.oe is living near his old home in Al-
bemarle County, at Crozet, Virginia, where has has been
practicing law for the past ten years .He expected to run
for Commonwealth's Attorney in the fall. He married
Marie Carter of Columbus, Ohio, and they have one
daughter, who was fifteen in August, named Mary Boyn-
ton Goodloe.

1914

LEON O’OuINN, Shreveport, Louisiana, is a member
of the law firm of Blanchard, Goldstein, Walker and
offices in the First National Bank

©’Quinn, with

Building.

BERKELEY Cox, Hartford, Connecticut, is associate
counsel for the Aetna Life Insurance Company, and has
been connected with the Home Office Legal Department
of that company for fourteen years. He is a member of
the Association of Life Insurance Counsel.

[19]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Rocer J. Bear, Cincinnati, Ohio, is an executive of
the Kroger Grocery and Baking Company, and has been
for a number of years. He is an active and loyal alumnus.

Jerry Burke is Division Superintendent of Appo-
mattox County Public Schools, Appomattox, Virginia.

Ropert M. McGEHEE is Regional Director of Relig-
ious Education for the Synod of Louisiana and last fall
was elected Stated Clerk and Treasurer. His home is at
2121 White Street, Alexandria, Louisiana.

Witt H.

Smitru lives in Ardmore, Oklahoma.

Bos SuAaw is still with the R. C. A. Manufacturing
Company, working on radio tubes. He lives in Harrison,
New Jersey, and has a family of four, three girls and
a boy.

1916

HARRISON MAGRUDER Is teaching at Millersburg Mili-
tary Institute, Millersburg, Kentucky.

RussELL S. Ruopes has spent five busy years in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, as general manager of the Tulsa Chamber of
Commerce. His daughter, Katherine Virginia, is a fresh-
man at Randolph-Macon this year.

JAcKsOoN COLLINS is practicing law at 111 Broadway,
New York.

CuHariig MeNirr is practicing medicine at 114 Kast
Sixty-Second Street, New York.

Jimmig Lee is with the McGraw-Hill Publishing
Company, 330 West Forty-Second Street, New York.

J. L. (Luxe) WittiaMs is with the Bristol Com-
pany, 250 Stuart Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

Bitt BurTNER is with the office of the Assistant So-
licitor in Southeastern Department of Justice and teaches
law in Southeastern University, Washington, D. C.

Witiiam B. YANCEY went to Madison, Wisconsin,
for duty as an instructor in the Military Department,
University of Wisconsin, from the Twenty-Eighth In-
fantry, Fort Benning, Georgia, three years ago. His old-
est daughter has graduated as an “A” student from the
University of Wisconsin, and his second daughter entered
there this year. His two youngest children, assorted
twins, are in high school. The boy is fourteen years old,
6 feet 3 inches tall, weighs 185 pounds, wears a number
11 shoe and has hands “like a bunch of bananas.”

HaArkY CAMPBELL is a member of the law firm of
Blue, Dayton and Campbell, Security Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

1918

FRANCIS H. StyLes, who has been American Consul
in Sydney, Nova Scotia, for some time, has been trans-
ferred to Dublin, Ireland.

H. C. Hearne is running “Hearne’s Department
Store,” Shreveport, Louisiana.

1919
Sim Curisty has been District Manager of the Sun
Oil Company, Kast Lansing, Michigan, since 1935. He
owns a farm near the Michigan State College and enjoys
living in the country.

LEONARD BROWN is engaged in the wholesale paper
business, in general, and printing papers in particular, in
Bridgeport, Connecticut, where he has been for the past
twelve years. His address is 700 West Jackson Avenue.

1920
IY. G. BAILEy is Assistant Chief Underwriter (I*.H.A.)
Richmond, Virginia. He says the lady he works for (if
you are married you'll know whom he means) bought a
house a short while back at 5504 Brewdley Road, and
Big Ed has bad blisters on his hands; but the grass and
flowers are thriving if that’s any consolation.

J. S. EpMoNbson is a member of the law firm of
Dixon, Willams and Edmondson, Commerce ‘Title Build-
ing, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

RAN CABELL its still with the Cabell Coal Company,
Inc., Covington, Virginia.

J. V. Merrsu lives at 1043 Union Avenue, Hillside,
New Jersey.

R. Hence Youn lives at 1207 Court Street, Port
Huron, Michigan.

Rosert M. Hutrcueson is with the Virginia Insur-
ance Rating Bureau in Roanoke, Virginia, Box 1031.

D. BoonE Dawson is Mayor of the City of Charles-

ton, West Virginia. He has recently been re-elected to
this office for a term of four years.

T. X. Parsons is a member of the law firm of Sho-
walter, Parsons, Kuyk and Staples, Colonial American
Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

k. C. Woob is practicing law in Lynchburg, Virginia.
d

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Stuart A. Briscor has followed the engineering pro-
fession constantly since leaving Washington and Lee,
first with the Mississippi State Highway Department,
then with the Illinois Central Railroad Company for seven
years, then with the Louisiana Highway Commission for
two years, and now finally back to Mississippi State High-
way Department since 1932. At present he is District
Iingineer for the Seventh District, located at Brook-
haven, Mississippi, which embraces the fourteen south-
west counties of the State; and he is in the midst of a
very large construction program. He married soon after
graduation and has a son thirteen years old.

Troy MUuSSELWHITE is an Attorney
and Counsellor-at-Law, Williams Build-
ing, Orlando, Florida.

Harry Ropert, Jr., is still Athletic 5%
Reporter for the Evening Bulletin, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. He now covers
golf as well as baseball. He is married
and has a son four years old. His home 1
address is 2316 Bryn Mawr Avenue,
Ardmore, Pennsylvania.

WititiaAm F. McCann has been as-
sociated with the Traffic Department of
the New York Central Railroad System for the past six-
teen years, and has traveled extensively from Montreal,
Canada, to Havana, Cuba, and from Boston, Massachu-
setts, to Los Angeles, California. He is interested in the
American Legion and its activities, plays “a terrible game
of golf,” attends church regularly, and tries to live up to
the ideals of his Alma Mater.

W. A. (Asie) WILLIAMS is with Ruffin & Payne,
Lumber, Mill Work, Builders’ Supplies, 1701 Fifth Ave-
nue, Highland Park, Richmond, Virginia. He has two
boys eleven and twelve who keep up with everything that
happens at Washington and Lee and know the names of
ach man on each team at the University.

1923

B. PALMER Orr lives at 629 Broadway, New Orleans,
Louisiana.

LYLE SATTEs is with the Belle Alyali Company, West
Virginia. He lives in Charleston, West Virginia, and has
a summer camp on Coal River near St. Albans.

  
   

1924
Epwin H. Howarp is teaching Accounting at Wash-
ington and Lee, and finds that while the faces change,
the same good old Washington and Lee traditions stay
with the students.

Joun G. GUERRANT is with the Virginia Paper Com-
pany, Inc., Richmond, Virginia.

CuarcLes A. TurwiLer is a member of the law firm
of Crockett and Tutwiler, Welch, West Virginia.

Harry Lyste Suvuty has recently been elected Vice-
President of the Southern Furniture
Manufacturers Association. He is Vice-
President of the Morganton Furniture
Company of Morganton, North Caro-
lina.

1925

RicHArD Fritz has been sales rep-
a! resentative for Joseph Tettey & Com-
“*3\ pany, Inc., in the New York Metropoli-
i i\ tan Area for the past twelve years.
| Leo S. Howarp located at Radford,
_ Virginia, after graduating from the Law
School, and there did general practice
until February, 1937, at which time he
moved to Floyd, Virginia, and took over the practice of
his father and brother. Since that time he has been doing
general practice in I‘loyd. He was married in 1929,

Ransom B. Houcuins is with Mundy Motor Lines,
Roanoke, Virginia. He is now in the Accounting Depart-
ment. He was married October 1, 1938.

ALFRED H.,
Vista, Virginia.

GRIFFITH is practicing law in Buena

1926

Ky. G. BARKER is treasurer of the John A. Wathen
Distillery Company, Louisville, Kentucky. He married
Virginia Weldon and they have two children, a boy nine
and a girl four.

RaLpH MAsINTER is practicing law at 76 Beaver
Street, New York. He says: “I am planning to be mar-
ried at Washington this coming week-end and will be
honeymooning through the South.”

NELSON LAKE is associated in the practice of law with
the firm of Lively & Lively, Security Building, Charles-

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ton, West Virginia. He was married in 1930 and has a
seventeen-months-old girl.

Jim Henprix is with King, Mohr & Company, In-
vestment Securities, Birmingham, Alabama. He is still a
bachelor.

C. Carter LEE is Commonwealth’s Attorney, Rocky
Mount, Virginia.

1927

Henry ALLISON INGALLS, JR., is at 810 Forester Ave-
nue, Albuquerque, New Mexico.

LurHer McKinnon is with the McKinnon Hard-
wood Company, specializing in shuttle-blocks. He has two
fine sons who are Washington and Lee prospects.

GEorGE MAYNARD, since leaving school, has been prac-
ticing law as a member of the firm of Maynard, Fitzger-
ald and Maynard. Billy Maynard of the Class of 1928,
is a member of the firm, and Fletcher Maynard, of the
Class of 1938, is an associate. George is married and has
two children, George, III, eight, and Elsie Jenkins, five
years old.

1928

308 Howe is with the Walton Rice Mill, Inc., Stutt-
gart, Arkansas. He is married and has two daughters,
four and two years old, respectively.

Howarp TAYLoE is in the paper business with his
father, as he has been since graduation. The address 1s
Tayloe Paper Company, 420-424 South Front Street,
Memphis, Tennessee.

Joun LANCASTER, JR., 1S a member of the firm of
Robertson, Leachman, Payne and Lancaster, Republic
Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

NorMAN Crozikr, Jr., has been engaged in the pri-
vate practice of law. Prior to that time he was Assistant
City Attorney and Trial Attorney for the N.R.A. He
was married in 1930 and is now blessed with two children,
Anne, four, and Mary Terry, two.

ALFRED JUNKIN is working with the McCrum Drug
Company, Lexington, Virginia.

T. P. Wricut is teaching school in Great Falls, South
Carolina.

Eart Firzpatrick has been practicing law in Roa-
noke since graduation. He was also married the day he
graduated in 1929. He is representing the City of Roa-
noke in the House of Delegates.

Davis BELL is assistant secretary of Quinn-Marshall
Company, Wholesale Dry Goods and Notions, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

WituiaM B. Lort is with the Federal Trade Commis-
sion, 217 Custom House ,New Orleans, Louisiana.

1930

Suurorp NicHots says: “As to news my most im-
portant contribution is a son, Henry Lee Nichols, now
aged one. A likely lad, if I may say. My principal activ-
ity is dealing in cotton as a planter, shipper, and ware-
house and compress operator. The whole business has
been so neatly regulated by the government that it is a
matter of daily conjecture whether we or the government
own the business.”

FRANK O. Evans is practicing law at 102 Kidd Build-
ing, Milledgeville, Georgia.

ParmMER Brown says: “Aside from becoming the
proud father of a daughter, Axon Evans Brown, now
four months old, and spending long hours in the effort to
eke ‘three squares and a loin cloth’ from the problems of
cotton, the No. 1 problem of the South, the No. 1 prob-
lem of the Nation. I have done little that could be con-
strued as news.” He is President of the L. P. Brown
Company, Inc., bagging and ties, 1201 Exchange Build-
ing, Memphis, Tennessee.

Nep WapvELv has been on the staff of the Notre
Dame Bay Hospital, Twillingate, Newfoundland, for two
years, “doing surgery in the main, but some smattering
of medicine, obstetrics, etc.” They serve the whole of
Notre Dame Bay with its 30,000 people. He and his wife
were visitors to Lexington last summer.

Mossy PErRow, JR. ,is a member of the law firm of
Perrow & Rosenberger, Krise Building, Lynchburg, Va.

Joun P. Lynceu is in the Department of Medicine, St.
Luke’s Hospital, Richmond, Virginia.

1931

FRANK S. HANNA is a member of the firm of Mum-
ford & Hanna, Investment Company, 509 Francis Street,
St. Joseph, Missouri.

Birt TALLYN is with the law firm of Cox and War-
burg, 60 Park Place, East Orange, New Jersey.

FRANK BrEADY lives at 58 West Upsal Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Bos KELL writes: “There seems so little need for
writing—my life is that of many another parish Priest.

[22]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

| say Mass and read my Offices and call on the sick and
teach the children and listen to troubles and bless and ab-
solve and mary and bury. And it’s all always different
and interesting; lots of times it’s very tiring; practically
always it’s glorious. But there’s nothing unusual about it.
Any Priest will tell you the same.” His address is St.
Mary’s Rectory, Worthington Valley, Glyndon, Md.
GRAHAM F, GILLOcK is employed by the General Ac-
counting Office, Washington, D. C., and lives at 3909 Mt.
Vernon Avenue, Hume Springs, Alexandria, Virginia.

Joun MyroseE is Pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church, Dalhart, Texas. He has a daugh-
ter, Betsy Lou, eight months old.

Bos FANGBONER is in the seed busi-
ness under the firm name of The Fang-
honer Seed Company, Corner Wayne
and Garrison Street, Fremont, Ohio.

GEORGE JUNKIN is connected with
the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
in Washington, doing actuarial and
analysis work.

1932

EVERETT Cross, 2504 Tenth Street, aa
N. E., Apartment 505, Washington,
D. C., has been married a year and is still with the City
of Washington as a playground director.

PauL A. (JERRY) HOLSTEIN is practicing law in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

J. 5. SHIELDs is an attorney at law in Memphis, Ten-
nessee. He is associated with the firm of Malone, Taulen-
blatt & Zimmerman, Exchange Building, Memphis.

FRANCIS FULLER was married to Marion Grey Col-
lier on April 29, 1938. He is engaged in the practice of
law with offices in Trust Company of Georgia Building,
Atlanta, Georgia.

1933

CarL VICKERS is Prosecuting Attorney of Fayette
County, Fayetteville, West Virginia. He is now married
and has two children, a daughter, Vicki Lee, two years of
age, and a son, Charles Martin, three months old.

Bos Morris is at 1114 Chestnut Street, Kenova, West
Virginia. He took a course at Marshall College in the
spring to qualify himself to teach in the high schools of
West Virginia.

Ip CuitTuM is principal of the Middlebrook High
School. He was planning to finish work this summer at
the University of Virginia toward his M.A. degree.

 

B. C. DeELA MATER is living in Aurora, Illinois, work-
ing in a supervisory capacity training and supervising
salesmen for the International Correspondence Schools
of Scranton, Pennsylvania. It is also part of his work to
cooperate with various industries in arranging their edu-
cational programs. He married a girl from Crozet, Va.

WALLACE SHEFFIELD is with the Sheffield Company,
Hardware, Americus, Georgia. He and his wife take fre-
quent trips in their airplane.

IRVING BRICKEN is a member of the firm of Bricken
Brothers, Real Estate, 565 Fifth Avenue, New York. He
has recently made a long journey to
South America and met several Wash-
ington and lee men in his travels.

LIAROLD ABRAMSON is married and
in business for himself. His address is
10 Allston Street, Allston, Massachu-
setts.

Joun Lewis Ericson, New Britain,
Connecticut, is Assistant Corporation
Counsel for the City of New Britain,
Connecticut ; also has a general practice
leaning toward building contracts and

wl ASS a liens with considerable court work de-
fending personal injury claims against the city.

GEORGE JosEPH has an office with his brother in the
Genesee Bank Building, Flint, Michigan, in the law firm
of Joseph & Joseph.

Bit STONE is substitute trial justice, Martinsville,
Virginia, where he practices alone.

1934
RED SAGER has written a letter to his Class Agent
which is somewhat difficult of interpretation. The only
concrete fact we have been able to glean from it is that
he is a “star-roomer” in the Y.M.C.A., Greensboro,
North Carolina.

SAM CLARK, JR., is a salesman for office supplies and
equipment with the Rose City Press of Charleston, West
Virginia, with the State of West Virginia as territory. He
is married and at the time of writing, May, 1939, said he
was the proud parent of a thirteen-months-old future
student of Washington and Lee.

WALTER Scorr BurcEss, JRr., went into business with
his father in the Burgess Chemical Company. He soon
developed what he calls “‘a few crackpot ideas” which are
now being marketed by Bendix, Tanglefoot & Company,

[23]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and since the first of March has been entirely on his own.
The new article is being marketed by Burgess Chemical
and made by the Industrial Rubber Goods division in St.
Joseph, Missouri. He lives in Benton Harbor, Michigan,
and asks that THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE issue an invita-
tion to any and all of his classmates to attend the annual
Blossom Festival in May.

THorNTON Berry is a member of the law firm of
Strother, Herndon and Berry at Welch, West Virginia,
and also Assistant United States Attorney for the South-
ern District of West Virginia.

1935

H. P. Drovent, III, is in the operation department
of Baniff Airways. He can be reached at 2528 Burbank,
Dallas, Texas. He was married in 1938 to Miss Hazel
Cloud of San Antonio.

EK. Ltoyp WATKINS received his medical degree from
Jefferson Medical College in June, 1939. Just eight days
after his graduation he was married to Sally Conway of
Germantown, Pennsylvania. He will serve his internship
in the Chestnut Hill Hospital, Philadelphia.

Win Smiru is at 437 Magie Avenue, Elizabeth, New
Jersey.

siLL Dyer is “cartooning” for the Knoxville News-
Sentinel, Knoxville, Tennessee.

1936

At DvuRANCE is writing captions on pictures for the
Daily News. His permanent address is 333 East Forty-
Third Street, New York.

CHarRLEs J. WALKER took his degree from the Jeffer-
son School of Law in Louisville, Kentucky, last June and
received his license to practice. He sent a contribution to
his class fund from his first fee.

Kennetu G. MacDona pn is in his last year in Medi-
cal College at Cornell.

Tuomas LL. Grove was married to Emily Francis
Turner in the middle of his first year of medicine, and
they have two sons, Thomas Leon Grove, Jr., and Wil-
liam Davis Grove. He will be an intern at St. Mary’s
Hospital, Huntington, West Virginia. His home is at
Ronceverte, West Virginia.

1937
Titrorp Payne has given up the practice of law and
is headed for the trust department of a bank in Louts-
ville, Kentucky. He fails to state which bank. His address
is still 2315 Cherokee Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky.

W.G. (TEx) Lenr is still in the mortgage loan busi-
ness in San Antonio, Texas. His younger brother will
graduate from Washington and Lee in 1941.

R. R. (Bos) Rapciirr is working at the Providence
Plant of the U.
address is 658 Chalkstone Avenue, Providence, Rhode
Island.

S. Rubber Company as a chemist. His

LAMAR Rav has completed his second year in medi-
cine in West Virginia University.

Harotp Macoon has permanently settled down in
Buffalo as Treasurer of Frontier Agency, Inc., General
Insurance. His business address is 17 Court Street, Buf-
falo, New York.

Jim McC ure is a member of the firm of McClure &
Saltman, First Federal Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.

kb STOVER is practicing law in the First National
Bank Building, Washington, New Jersey.

Henry Merrit? is practicing law in the Kentucky
Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

At McCarbeE.t is a National Bank Examiner. His
address is 407 Federal Building, Norfolk, Virginia.

 

ee ee ee ee rere er a ee ee ee ee ee ee eee

McCRUMS
y
Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY
In Lexington and Vicinity
y
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
y
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
y
Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

ie.

¥ ¥ Ge eee ee eee ee mL ee we lwermlUmUermUeTrrmUCrrhUCTrmrwrevewvwevweoweovryTwewewvwTwewwrew (Fw
-~, » + +s A A AA» 4 4 A Be Be ee Been dchhllnlllltlltllltillttzilletusillttarillzillltl.lle Li di _ hd ia iti i ia

a a a a a a a a a a a a a a SS

 

 

 

[24]

Top (eft to right: Elijah Funk-
houser, 1893 (holding plate); F. M.
Hudson, 1890; Harrington Waddell,
1893; Miles Poindexter, 1891; Dick
Feamster, 1923; Dr. Bolling Lee,
1893; Fielding Poindexter, 1889. Cen-
ter: A group of ’fifteeners and their
families return to celebrate their 25th
anniversary. Bottom: Mrs. Frank
Moore and Mr. Moore, 1896, with
Mrs. F. M. Hudson and Mr.
Hudson, 1890.

 

 

