‘i We

WASHINGTON & LEE UNVERSIT

LEXINCTOR,

ALUMNI Magazine

of Washington and Lee University

 

Volume Vii i Naas 1

July {931 $2.50 a V ear

a

a

<%
a

¥
¢
¢
a
ae
¥

hey, inl
© ive palo.
ea
5

a ra us
pee

>

om

a
A’

>

«

vs

itp

i

i

. uy

 

H E Ate: BoM Nd MesA GAC Zz BOS

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their
cards in the directory. Rates on application.

R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE |
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
TORNEY-AT-LAW ° +: ;
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW Suite 303 First National Bank Douduas, Oxkha’ 6 ‘Doverks
City, N. J en Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C
Atlantic City, N. J. Southern .. Washington, D.C.
? Bluefield, W. Va. 7 :
PHILIP P. GIBSON, ’13-’15, Lawyer ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
General practice in all State ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
25-29 Citizens National Bank
and Foam tT 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building C Buildin
Suite 814 Union Bank & Trust Co. bia alla ate las g
, Ge
Bldg., Huntington, West Va. ve han | Parkersburg, W. Va.
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus Exchange Building. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW . | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Tampa, Florida Peoples Bank Building 811 Roxley Building
Lynchburg, Virginia | Roanoke, Virginia

W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

 

 

James E. Smitherman

Compliments of the President of John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman

THIS SPACE AVAILA the Alumni, Inc. Sam W. Mason
2 a SMITHERMAN, T UCKER & MASON
E. C. CAFFREY, ’09 | Law Offices

| Commercial National Bank
| Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW | A? TORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal _ Suite 881 Mills Building
Departments | H. B. Moore, Principal

Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California

1100 Investment Building | Telephone Sutter 3363
Washington, D. C.

J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.

 

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

na se 68 mee Oe ee MM: 2G ew Se: Tk Re

 

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a

Century
“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT”

W. & L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

 

“McCRUMS” For the Sake of Auld Lang

As Always the Gathering Place Of
) Syne

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE Order a Virginia Smoke

Cured Ham

From

Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
E. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer Harry K. Younc, Editor

NO.

WALTER MCDONALD, President

 

VOL. VII JULY, 1931 1

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

CrHar.orre, N. C—Dr. Wm. Allen, Medical Building. Louisvitte, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Building.
Wasuincton, D. C.—Elwood Seal, Investment Building. New Yorx, N. Y.—Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
Mempuis, TENN.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities. CHarLeston, W. Va.—Wirt W. Donnally, Kana-
wha Valley Bank. Roanoxr, VAa.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building. LyNcHBurc, V A.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch
Building. BrrmincHamM, ALa.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Building. RicHMoNnb, Va.—Joe Bernie, Mor-
ris Plan Bank. Artanta, GA.—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. Forr Wortu, Texas—E. S$. McCord,
1309 Hoge Building. JAcKsonvitLE, FLa.—Fred Valz, Atlantic National Bank Building. NEw OrvEans, La.
—H. M. Blain, 322 Hillary St. Drrrorr, Micu.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Company.

 

 

G ONTENTS

PAGE PaGk
173 Get Degrees at 18lst Commencement............ 2 Leibowitz Wins Press Award......................:::.006 27
Old Grads Return for Alumni Day.................... 5 Sam R. Hall Receives Fellowship........................ 27
Fitzpatrick Elected Trustee........:...:.......s.scsseeees 7 Many Alummi “Register: ..06..0..00..0000400..008. ic 28
Faculty Changes Authorized......................:00c000 7 Prot, Manel Eiave®: for a ear issn.t..60i.ih.ds... 29
ett; °23, is CRIN sensi cercs exes -cxeses-sqccdtens 7 Laffoon Named for Governot...................0::0004 29
Editorial :....2:..'::...5.5; Gbaeate teeta Satovbnossudaae 8 Eight Records Fall in State Meet..........0...000.... 30
Law School Grew from “Idea” in 1803.............. 9 Budnick s Flot &...,..ccomtins--....caGhils'... Sh. 32
Grid: State gen E10... icckas- tot eaenetinaes 11 Faculty Loses Diamond Classic.................0000:. 33
Former Campus Leader :.):)46::, chee 12 Football: Se... iteccic..... Sa. 34
Columbia Honors Dr. Gaines.................::::008+ 13 “Cy” Yee 2 er oth... ihe 8 cis. 34
Five “Lee Boys”. [sittitedsi iirc. isis: .nis0te5s0s, 14 PUIG ee NOM 223.5 c 5h ceess bane WA 35
President’s Report Reveals Progress.................. 15 Publicity Drives Began 50 Years Ago................ 37
e Load” Snively Corghem Qin cis. .csccantn--ackorrre sent 16 Fitzgerald Heads ‘Troubadours.................0..0.....5. 38
Devoted Life to. Hducati@n. -..........ccisccccsessosesnsss. 17 “Billy” Hinton Pursues Doctorate.................... 38
meeD. K. Make Atel eur... :,....cccsssstosincesers 17 Sons and Grandsons Ask for Degrees................ 39
Hoover May Speak at W. and L................00+ 17 O’Neal Heads Farm Bureau.............00..00..000 39
memmmeeeats Fiit Dime icisesieterc ii ess. 1s:- typ eceeccapanns 18 Campus Visualized 20 Years Hence.................. 40
Homer Adams Holt, Lawyet...............ccccsssceee 18 Football Game Delays Meeting ...............0.00.0... 41
Campus Surveyors Delve Into Past.................... 19 Three Faculty Members Leaving...............00....... 41
Pierotti Becomes Wrestler..................:..:ccsscesssesee: 20 A Well-Remembered Athlete..........0..0000000000.0.. 41
Caffrey Visits Dgnthcn..... deiadteds. Sal aeivieesed 20 Prof. Riegel Writes Article:.2.0...026.000560..01.008 42
ae Of OO Wee cs... cali. can, tileili tio 21 Old Faculty Widely Scattered................0000.00. 42
1931 Starts Scholarship Fund..........................0 21 F’Seueetamemee: Semen) 20 5550.83 eek hl J CE. 42
“Holts” Were Record Makers........................05- 22 Dr. Fines s Gpenlos.. sits... As... 43
McVay Remembered for Speed..................:c0000+. 22 To Improve. Wilson Field. .1aj.....008...0806.....00 43
Sigma Chi to Have New Home........................-. 23 Notables Visit Chapels: i228 cae en 44
remem Battle” is TExCumate tiiiis..ids....eccbiciecccecte 24 Grad Weds During Bitals.. :..<. ivissaincisssis.. Bete 44
Engineer “Bark” Cook Teaches..................:0.00+. 24 Students Visit New York Press................0......... 46
nM Si. cds.<s baie cai aAMMebeasapltds..cacecosaabasbecs 25 Pie that... Aes, avkcctlemi ges ev. «<s <cglMMV casks UE 49
paeedas Ont Lae. iil RE. bi. dss be cites 27 Postiteritile:: «45 i dic a Oees.. dic th. MSE 3 49

 

fil

 

-_ a ee, 0k ee ee

VA Ue ae, A ee ee

 

173 Get Degrees at 18lst Commencement

['TH a ball Tuesday night, June 9, continuing
until after sunrise of the following day, Finals
Week, celebrating the 181st commencement of
Washington and Lee University, went into history as
one of the most successful in recent years.

Degrees were awarded to 167 men at an impres-
sive ceremony held in Lee Chapel at 11 oP
o'clock ‘Tuesday morning, with Dr. Francis di,
Pendleton Gaines, president of the Uni- ’
versity, presiding at his first Washington and Ti
Lee Commencement. In addition to these de- & *

fo % ; -
A

  

   
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

grees, honorary degrees were given six leaders
in various professions. —

Dances, banquets, crew races, baseball, .
luncheons, late shows, and other events crowded
the Finals Week program. The chief dances,
held in Doremus Gymnasium and _ presided
over by Charles W. Day, president of
Finals, were unusually brilliant. The
Inter-Fraternity Dance was held Fri-
day night, June 5; the Sigma German
dance, Saturday night; the Senior-
Alumni Ball, Monday night; and
the Finals Ball Tuesday night.
Coon-Sanders played for the £
first dances and Fletcher
Henderson for the last.
The Finals Ball continu-
ed until after sunrise.

A statesman, an
editor, a soldier-edu-
cator, a writer, a busi-
ness man, and a minis-
ter were recognized by
Washington and Lee when hon-
orary degrees were conferred on
them at the 18lst commencement
of the institution.

Those honored, with the degrees they received, are:

Frank O. Lowden, former governor of Illinois,
doctor of laws.

Marlen E. Pew, editor, Editor and Publisher, New
York City, doctor of laws.

Maj.-Gen. John Archer Lejeune, superintendent
of the Virginia Military Institute, doctor of laws.

William Thomas Reed, Richmond financier, doctor
of commercial science.

Archibald Rutledge, poet-author, doctor of litera-
ture.

The Rev. Vincent C. Franks, minister, Lexington,
doctor of divinity.

The remarks of Dr. Gaines in conferring the hon-
orary degrees follow :

[2]

“Vincent Chesley Franks: Gift from Canada to Vir-
ginia; vigorous in personality; charming in friendship,
honest in thought; powerful preacher of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ,and exemplar of the beauty of His grace
in human life, I gladly confer upon you the degree of
Doctor of Divinity of Washington and Lee University.

“William Thomas Reed: A son of Vir-
ginia, devoting your powers to Virginia's en-
deavors ; successful in private business and mani-
festing for business problems a vision and a
grasp that are economic statesmanship; unself-
ish friend of agencies that make for general
welfare, for education, for spiritual culture, |

gladly confer on you the degree of Doctor of

Commercial Science of Washington and
Lee University.

“Archibald

in South

Rutledge: Born
Carolina; educated
there and in New York;
many years a_ teacher
guide for youth but also a
y imaker of literature;
sessed of authentic imag-
ination that takes your
strong fancies, colors
them with the copi-
ous hues of nature and
with the sunset radi-
ance of a civilization
departed, and weaves
them into patterns of
words that shall not fade with
passing years, I gladly confer
upon you the degree of Doctor
of Letters of Washington and
Lee University.

“Marlen Edwin Pew: Born

for
and

pos-

and educated in Ohio; active in varied and important
capacities of Journalism and now editor of the organ
for that great profession; e::ponent of high idealism in
the channels of public thought; influential force for
molding nobler and more generous public opinion; |
gladly confer upon you the degree of Doctor of Laws
of Washington and Lee University.

“John Archer Lejeune: Born in Louisiana, traine.t
at West Point; useful and distinguished in many phases
of war and peace; adding now your name to that of
other great warriors who make memorable our own
community ; like them, honored and loved by us because
of your qualities as soldier, educator, gentleman, and
Christian, I gladly confer upon you the degree of Doc-
tor of Laws of Washington and Lee University.

“Frank Orren Lowden: Born in Minnesota, educat-

- Wy ik A aL 40 YM. N

ed in Iowa and in Illinois, which became the state of
your adoption ; honored with emphatic expressions of
confidence by elections as congressman and governor ;
and by large support in presidential conventions ; States-

man, in the highest and broadest sense, contributing to

 

 

 

I

me i GF OR ee

ation as valedictorian from Iowa State College in 1885.
Two years later he was valedictorian again upon re-
ceiving the degree of bachelor of laws from Union
College of Law, Chicago. He was professor of law
in Northwestern University and soon began a political

 

 

 

Yoru ARCHER

LEVEUNE

 

VINCENT C Franks

 

 

MARLEN EDWIN PEW a

 

FRANK O. LOWDEN a

WILL/AM THOMAS REED

RECIPIENTS OF _ HONORARY DEGREES FROM WASHINGTON AND LEE

every worthy enterprise of our country; interested in
every section of our country; in personal character, in
allegiance to our finest ideals, in service, an embodiment
of the best that we call American, I gladly confer
upon you the degree of Doctor of Laws of Washing-
ton and Lee University.”
PROMINENT IN MANy FIELDS

Former-Governor Lowden has distinguished him-

self both academically and politically since his gradu-

[3]

career which led him to serve three terms in Congress
as an Illinois representative.

While governor of Illinois in 1920 Mr. Lowden
was close to the Republican nomination for the presi-
dency of the United States, receiving more than 300
votes at the national convention. Four years later he
declined the nomination for vice-president and in 1928
he was once more candidate for the presidential nomi-
nation.

we. io ain A Ne UO

PEW IS SPOKESMAN OF PREss

During a long newspaper career, in which he ex-
perienced almost every type of organized journalism,
Mr. Pew has repeatedly distinguished himself as a
champion of the free press, and has come to be called
the “greatest living American editor.” He began as a
reporter for the Cleveland Press in 1894. ‘Then fol-
lowed several years with New York newspapers and
press assocations and, in 1912, he was one of the or-
ganizers of the United Press.

During the war Mr. Pew acted as press represen-
tative of the Secretary of War and became respon-
sible for many of the present government policies in
handling news. Among the editorships he has held
are those of the Boston Traveler and the Philadelphia
News-Post. In his present capacity as editor of the
world’s leading newspaper journal, he is looked upon
as spokesman of American journalism.

LEJEUNE’S CAREER COMPREHENSIVE

Major-General Lejeune took his present post after
retiring from the command of the Marine Corps in
1929, and after an unusually comprehensive record
in military service to the United States. He has been
graduated from Louisiana State University, United
States Naval Academy and the Army War College.

From a Marine Corps second lieutenancy receiv-
ed in 1890, Major-General Lejeune was promoted
gradually to a brigadier-generalship in 1916, and he was
awarded his present rank while on duty with the 35th
division in the Alsace sector during the great war.
He returned from the occupation in 1919 in command
of the Second Division. He participated in several
battles in the great war, and was a marine commander
in the Spanish-American War, had charge of a marine
brigade in the capture of Vera Cruz, 1914.

REED A BUSINESS LEADER

Mr. Reed is a business leader in Virginia business
and industry. He is president of the Larus Brothers
Tobacco Company, Richmond, and participated in
Richmond finance. For many years he has been active-
ly interested in the problems of government in the Old
Dominion, and in 1926 he served as chairman of the
state committee for the consolidations and simplifica-
tions of Virginia government. Higher education has
always commanded his attention.

A member of the National Board of Tobacco Man-
ufacturers, Mr. Reed has built a reputation for con-
servative industrial development, better banking, and
tobacco progress. In financial circles he is considered
one of Virginia’s most sagacious business men and an
international authority on tobacco marketing problems.

Port-AuTHOR CHOSEN

Mr. Rutledge is known for his poetry and other
writings, particularly those dealing with life in the Old

I

[4]

N E

South. A native of South Carolina, he was graduated
from Union College, New York, in 1904, and received
a master of arts degree there in 1907. He is a fre-
quent contributor to “Outlook,” “Country Life,” ‘The
American Magazine,” “Scribners,” and other magazines,
and of his many published volumes are “Old Plantation
Days” and “Days Off in Dixie.”

me. oe CG AA Za

LEXINGTON MINISTER HONORED

The Rev. Mr. Franks is minister of the Robert E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, Lexington. In the
two years he has been located here, Mr. Franks has
taken a great interest in Washington and Lee students,
and has made himself a factor in civil life.

Mr. Franks is a Canadian, born in Keller, Ont.
His college work was interrupted by the war, in which
he served with the Canadian expeditionary forces. Fol-
lowing his discharge from the army, he came to the
United States and for some time was in business and
newspaper work. Then he returned to school atWash-
ington University, St. Louis, Mo.

Later he went to Virginia Theological Seminary,
Alexandria, and following his graduation in 1926, at-
tended Columbia University and Union Theological
Seminary, New York. His first parish was at Berry-
ville, Va., from which he came to Lexington.

LOWDEN URGEs SocIrAL Strupy

“When men shall have perfected their human re-
lationships so as to bring them up to accomplishments
of the material sciences, poverty can be abolished from
the world.” Frank O. Lowden, former governor of
Illinois, told the graduates and guests in delivering
the commencement address.

Mr. Lowden pointed out that although our repre-
sentative government is now “on the defensive” its
foes will be overcome and we shall emerge from de-
pression when we have applied the same serious study
to government and development of the social sciences
which we have applied elsewhere to revolutionize the
world.

Hundreds of parents, friends, and well-wishers
of the 1931 class crowded historic Lee Chapel for the
commencement exercises. Many of the visitors had
come several days before to be present for the full
commencement week.

“Just as material sciences have vastly improved
man’s condition,” Mr. Lowden explained, after briefly
sketching the history of scientific education, “so the so-
cial sciences seem now to have entered upon a new
career of usefulness to the world. The social sciences
are beginning to apply the same method which has
revolutionized the material sciences, and in them, I be-
lieve, is the best hope for future progress of our civili-
zation.”

Continued on page 44

 

 

ma... 5 8.3 Ms ee Oe

7"

I

Mm A © AS”. & ae

Old Grads Return for Alumni Day

Sy teaarae Sar erage |

 

 

1BUSY and unusually interesting day was
> |spent by alumni and other guests of the Uni-
S24 i\versity on Alumni Day, Monday, June 6.
Features of the day of special interest to returning
alumni included the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association, the meeting of the Alumni Board, the
bridge for wives of visiting alumni, the alumni lunch-
eon, the Varsity-Maryland baseball game, the Harry
Lee-Albert Sidney boat race, the President's reception,
and the Senior-Alumni Ball.

   

 

 

 

ASSOCIATION MEETING

The Alumni Association, called to order at 10:30
o'clock by Judge E. C. Caffrey, the president, had the
good fortune of meeting the five “Lee boys,” former
students of the University during the Presidency ot
General Robert E. Lee. Two of the “Lee boys,”
General Henry T. Wickham, A. B. ’68, of Richmond
and Judge Robert Ewing, (’67-’68), of Nashville,
Tenn., made addresses. ‘The other “Lee boys,” Thom-
as J. Arnold, B. L. ’67, of Elkins, W. Va.; Dr. S. H.
Chester, A. B. ’72, of Passaic, N. J.; and Judge Staf-
ford G. Whittle, (’68-’69), LL.D. °19, of Martinsville,
Va., were introduced.

General Wickham described his experiences dur-
ing the war between the states. The fighting was so
severe near his home, he said, that his family decided
to send him to Washington College, where things would
be more quiet. In concluding, General Wickham paid

5

 

high tribute to General Lee, whom he loved dearly
while in college and afterward.

Judge Ewing related how he was attracted to
Washington College by the presence there of General
Lee. He described the difficult journey to Lexington
in the summer of 1867, and told his impressions upon
seeing once more, on his present visit, the room that
he had occupied while a student in the College. Judge
Ewing also paid glowing tribute to General Lee and
his faculty.

Among the other speakers at the meeting were
Judge Jake Fisher and Herbert Fitzpatrick.

McDonaLp NEW PRESIDENT

Walter McDonald, of Cincinnati, was elected presi-
dent of the Alumni Association, succeeding Judge Caf-
frey. Joseph Bierne, of Richmond, was named vice-
president, E. L. Graham, of Lexington, was re-elected
treasurer. Randolph Tucker, of Richmond; Stuart
Moore, of Lexington, and Dozier Devane, of Washing-
ton, D. C., were elected to the alumni board of trustees.

Harry K. Young, Alumni Secretary, presenting
his own report and the report of the treasurer, sum-
marized a year of activity and progress.

SECRETARY'S REPORT

The following is the text of Secretary Young’s

report :
“To attempt to report on what this office has done

ms 6 a ee ee oe ee

I

De me a ee Ee

 

is not a pleasant task for me. For I have never been
happy in using the pronoun “I”. A year’s work with-
out pay would be preferable to talking of my accom-
plishments, and I sorely need money. But I shall en-
deavor to tell you what you have done, by making me
Secretary of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

“1. In sixteen states you have met me and caused
me to feel that Washington and Lee spirit never dies.

“2. You have caused me to travel 10,000 miles.

“3. You have enabled me to get out the Alumni
Magazine as promised,—and on time.

“4. You have raised your subscription list. from

175 to 500.

wc

5. You have re-organized local Alumni Associa-
tions in Charlotte, N. C., Atlanta, Ga., Birmingham,
Ala., and Memphis, Tenn.

“6. You have allowed me to attend meetings in
Richmond, New York, Charleston, Lynchburg,
Roanoke.

“7. You have cooperated with this office in ar-
ranging a speaking tour for Dr. Gaines—our remark-
able new president—in Charlotte, Atlanta, Birmingham,
New York, Memphis, Louisville, Charleston, W. Va.,
Roanoke and Washington, D. C. His addresses have
done much to revive the interest of Alumni throughout
the country and Dr. Gaines reports a sincere and de-
lightful reception on every occasion.

“And now concluding let me reacquaint you with
the fact that the needs are manifold. Too much stress
cannot be placed upon our Magazine. ‘This publication
is the means by which the Alumni can keep in touch
with their Alma Mater. And it is our only source of
revenue. I have tried to make this a worth while pub-
lication, although Mr. Finney or Mr. Bowers have not
offered me any positions on their N. Y. Publication as
yet, for I have felt that news is what you want, and
your subscription is what the Alumni Office has to
have. Do you gentlemen realize that heretofore this
office has received a percentage of endowment funds
from alumni to operate upon? Since I have assumed
the Secretaryship this office has not been furnished with
one penny. Maybe you think I have not had to sit
up nights devising ways and means to buy the 9000
stamps I have used not to mention light, telephone, and
many other operating expenses.

“A farm will deteriorate in 18 months’ time, a house
will go to rack and ruin in a similar period so I feel
that our Alumni Association had suffered eighteen
months without a paid Secretary. This year I tried to
repair the fences, landscape the grounds and wisely
plant the seeds of friendly understanding. In my
deepest conscience I feel that you have responded ten-
fold to every advance I have made. In the years to
come may I prove worthy of you.”

The treasurer’s report, also read by Secretary
Young, was as follows:

 

 

malemee? rue. 1, 1990......-0....ccn = DA t
Receipts—Magazine Subscriptions 914.25
Receipts—Magazine Advertising... 494.00
CINE Ce etes. fs. -dccgbaccdn.-ss< $1413.36
Disbursements
Cost of Publishing Magazine ................ $1098.01
CRIES 5c... .ccldagbede taste co ssatees.s0%: 59.60
LATE ae as « «55. so e<sidbssaseksncy «02+. <a8e>-2s 14.29
a 60.10
CHIME DMTIEN SG... .isinuksdnntese- sees. 145.62
Western ONIOR ain. . ie heen ce 17.74
WH MOG SUNITA... emer a kent 13.54
$1408.90
Receiste si.<isihi;.: $1413.36
Disbursements 1408.90
Balance June 1... $ 4.46

PRAISE SELECTION oF Dr. GAINES

A resolution congratulating the trustees of the
University on the appointment of Dr. Gaines as presi-
dent was presented by D. B. Owen, °12, of Doyles-
town, Va., and approved by acclamation. The resoulu-
tion dated June 8, 1931, and signed by Judge Caffrey
for the association read as follows:.

“To the Honorable Board of Trustees of Washington
and Lee University.

Gentlemen :

This being the first meeting of the Alumni, Inc.
since the installation of Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines
as President of our Alma Mater. We take this oppor-
tunity to express to the Board of ‘Trustees a word of
congratulation upon their wise selection of Dr. Gaines
and convey our gratitude and appreciation for their
choice.

Dr. Gaines in his short time with us has won our
admiration and respect. And it is the sense of this
meeting that the Alumni Association will cooperate
with him in his every effort and endeavor, as a token
of our esteem.

The resolution was later read to the trustees of
the university by Judge Caffrey, spokesman for a com-
mittee consisting of himself, Walter McDonaid and
Cy Young.

The report of the Finals committee, which ar-
ranged the Alumni Day program, was read by Prot.
Frank Gilliam. Members of the committee were L. C.
Witten, chairman, Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., Frank
Gilliam, Robert Ramsey and Dozier Devane.

During the alumni meeting in the morning, the
wives of visiting alumni were entertained at a bridge
party held in the reception rooms of the Alumni Build-

[ 6 ]

-. Hi E ee Nee Ge

ing. A smoker for all alumni was held in the same
rooms Sunday night.
ENTERTAINED AT LUNCHEON

Several hundred guests of the University, includ-
ing alumni and their families and members of the
faculty, enjoyed a delightful luncheon in the dining hall
at 1 o'clock. The luncheon was unusual in that the
program for this year was condensed*to one short talk
by Dr. Gaines. Judge Caffrey introduced the president.
' “Washington and Lee’s alumni are its final justi-
fication, its testimony and testimonial,’”’ Dr. Gaines said.
“We have no state, no church, no great metropolis
behind us. Our alumni are our greatest contribution.
For this reason and also because we love you as former
students, we are glad to welcome you back to Wash-
ington and Lee.”

Two ATHLETIC EVENTS

In the afternoon alumni were entertained at a
baseball game between Washington and Lee and the
University of Maryland featured by Washington and
Lee’s ninth-inning rally breaking a 3-3 tie and defeating
the Maryland nine, 4-3. The stands were packed at
the game which rang down the curtain on the year’s
athletic activities of the University. The batteries were:
Maryland, Faber and Jones; Washington and Lee,
Jarrett and Mattox.

At 6 o'clock alumni witnessed the annual boating
classic between the Harry Lee and Albert Sidney
crews, won this year by the Harry Lee’s. Between 8:30
and 10:30 o’clock alumni and other guests were re-
ceived by President and Mrs. Gaines at the President's
home. ‘The annual Senior-Alumni Ball, during which
there were dance figures by alumni and members of
the graduating class, brought the day’s activities to a
close.

 

FITZPATRICK ELECTED TRUSTEE

Herbert Fitzpatrick, vice-president and general
counsel of the Chesapeake and Ohio and Hocking Val-
ley Railroads, was elected to the board of trustees of
Washington and Lee University at a board meeting
held on Monday, June 8.

Mr. Fitzpatrick is an alumnus of Washington and
Lee University, having received the A. B. degree in
1892 and the LL.B. degree in 1893. He was adinit-
ted to the West Virginia bar in 1895 and began prac-
tice in Huntington. He was assistant prosecuting
attorney of Cabell County in 1904, and city solicitor of
Huntington in 1906. He is a member of Phi Delta
Theta and Theta Nu Epsilon fraternities. His home
is in Huntington.

 

FACULTY CHANGES AUTHORIZED

In addition to the election of a new trustee,

ininor changes in the faculty were authorized, 167 stu-

I

Mm: A 6 @- 2 }- ee

dents certified for graduation, and routine business
transacted at the annual meeting of the board of trus-
tees held on June 8. Eight members of the board were
present.

A committee of the university alumni presented
resolutions from the Alumni Association commending
the trustees on the selection of Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines as president of the University and praising his
work during his first year in office.

The trustees granted leaves of absence to William
L,. Mapel, director of journalism, to become assistant
editor of a boy’s magazine in Detroit ; Fitzgerald Flour-
noy, associate professor of English, and Miss Helen
A. Rockwell, assistant librarian, to study. Leaves of
absence previously granted to Miss Blanche P. Mc-
Crum, librarian, and Professors L. L. Hill and Edwin
H. Howard were continued for another year.

Six additions were made to the faculty: Norris
W. Goldsmith, now a candidate for doctorate at Cor-
nell, named assistant professor of physics; G. S. Jack-
son, now instructing at Harvard, elected assistant pro-
fessor of English; Karl Fischer, Indianapolis news-
paperman, named assistant professor of journalism;
Douglas F. Doubleday, Michigan newspaperman, chos-
en instructor of journalism; W. E. Tilson, of Duke
University, named assistant coach; and Miss Corinne
Bacon, library bibliographer, was named acting libra-
rian.

Professor O. W. Riegel was named acting head
of the department of journalism for the year; John
Higgins Williams was promoted from instructor to
assistant professor of political science; and Dean James
Lewis Howe, who had reached the retirement age of
70, asked to retain direction of the school of applied
science.

The duties of the director of Christian work for
the year will be taken over by Professor W. W. Morton
and Professor Frank Gilliam with a cooperating stu-
dent committee.

 

SCOTT, ’23, IS CANDIDATE

Walter Arnold Scott, of Roanoke, who was grad-
uated from the Law School in 1923, has announced his
candidacy for the Virginia House of Delegates.

Before coming to W. and L. Scott went to V. P. I.
where he took a pre-law course. He started practic-
ing in Roanoke in 1924, and at the present time is
president of the Young Men’s Democratic Club.

 

Lester Arnold, ’18 is connected with the Win-
chester Evening Star.

 

Peyton Harrison, ’30, is practicing law in Charles-
Town, W. Va.

Ly. J

a E a a oe ae Nd ee oe ee ee ee eee

 

An Appeal to Alumni

The summer issue of the Alumni Magazine is sent by the University to every living alumnus whose address is
in our files, regardless of whether or not he is a subscriber to the Magazine.

In this magazine you will find a blank which is intended to serve two purposes.

Kirst, it can be used to subscribe to the magazine, or, if you already subscribe, to renew your subscription.

Second, it can be used to jot down interesting items of information about your own activities or about the ac-
tivities of other alumni of Washington and Lee in the section in which you live. ‘The Alumni Magazine is your
magazine. Don’t fail to send us anything that will add to its interest.

A subscription to the Alumni Magazine is the best way of keeping in touch with the activities of friends and
classmates. A subscription to the Magazine also represents alumni dues, for no other form of dues is asked for
by the alumni association.

Two years ago, when the alumni association was temporarily without a secretary, the publication of the Maga-
zine was irregular. During the past twelve months, however, every issue of the Magazine has appeared on time.
The Magazine will continue to be published regularly five times a year, including the summer edition.

We urge you to send in your subscription at once if you are not already a subscriber. Washington and Lee
has definitely entered into a new era of achievement and usefulness, and it is your first duty and privilege to form
this point of contact with your Alma Mater.

On his trips to alumni groups the editor has found many loyal and devoted friends of Washington and Lee
who are taking an active interest in the work of the institution but who have neglected, chiefly because of forget-
fulness, to send in the subscription blank. Fill out and return the blank today.

 

00—

The Editor Views This Issue

The summer issue of the Alumni Magazine reflects an unusally large number of interests of Washington and
Lee University.

Nothing could show more clearly the many-sided life of our University than a catalog of subjects treated in
this magazine. Here is the record of present and past achievement, the story of development from small begin-
nings to an institution recognized by a committee of investigators within the past month as the university for men
in the United States most national in character.

The major article in this issue is, of course, Commencement, which marks the completion of another milestone
in University history. In the ceremonies attending graduation we are reminded again of educational ideals and of
the obligations of public service which this university has never failed to meet.

Commencement also marks the completion of the first year of the presidency of Dr. Gaines, and his annual
report, a digest of which appears in these pages, clearly indicates his vision of a greater and more useful University.

Readers whose interest lies in the “good old days” may read these pages with both pleasure and profit. Ar-
ticles like those on the Law School, the search among old deeds by campus surveyors, student morals of a half
century ago, the first publicity campaign of the 1880's the career of President Junkin, and the description of old
Lexington, will bring a smile of recognition to those who remember, and a smile of amusement, perhaps, to those
too young to recall the faces and places of bygone days.

Here too is the chronicle of more recent achievements. The activities of hundreds of living alumni are re-
corded. An alumnus is nominated for governorship of his state; another makes an unusal record in the sports
in which he starred while an undergraduate; another becomes a brilliant lawyer; another becomes a Congress-
man; several win laurels in the teaching profession. Not of least importance are the records of births, deaths, and
marriages. No alumnus can read the magazine without finding news of some of those who were once his familiars.

The future, too, finds a place in the magazine. The campus of the future is visualized, and in many of the
articles on the present day University there is a forecast of future developments.

Washington and Lee is of the past, the present, and the future. No one who glances at this issue should fail
to catch the spirit of the University.

[8 ]

—

T HE

———_™

A 2. Oe ee eS

M A G & 2 }. ae

Law School Grew From “Idea” in 1803

SF IT had not been for construction of the
ef ereat locks in Richmond, in 1804, the Wash-

ct iigton and Lee University School of Law
might today be sixty-three years older than it is.

In 1803, the Board of Trustees of the institution,
then Washington College, met and created a Professor-
ship of Law. Then Hon. Paul Carrington, at that time
judge of the Supreme Court of Virginia, was elected
to the chair. The Board wrote to Judge Carrington
telling him of his election, and within a few weeks re-
ceived a reply indicating his acceptance. More plans
were made, and it was decided that the University
should erect a $5,000 home for Judge Carrington and
family, and that the study of law should begin at Wash-
ington College the following year, 1804.

But the Hon. Paul Carrington had accepted a po-
sition that appeared nowhere except on paper.

At that time, Washington College was getting
much of its money from the dividends of the James
River Stock, which had been given to the institution
by George Washington. When the Board of Trus-
tees created the new Professorship of Law, they plan-
ned to pay Carrington’s salary and erect his home with
funds for the most part derived from the. stock divi-
dends. But it so happened that at the same time,
money was needed for construction of the great locks
at Richmond, and for this purpose most of the divi-
dends were used.

Thus the first plan for instruction in law at Wash-
ington and Lee University was born, and thus it died.

Forty-six years later, in 1849, Judge John White
Brockenbrough decided that the town of Lexington was
an ideal spot for the teaching of law. With this in
mind, he founded that year the Lexington Law School,
his own private institution, of which he was president,
board of trustees, and complete faculty. ‘The Lexing-
ton Law School during its first session had a student-
body numbering five.

Judge Brockenbrough’s school thrived, with an
ever increasing number of students, until the outbreak
of the war in 1861. From this time until 1865, the
lexington School of Law ceased operations.

One year after the war was over, in 1866, Judge
Brockenbrough reopened his school; but this time it
was no longer the Lexington Law School, a private in-
stitution. General Lee had caused it to be incorporated
into Washington College as the School of Law and
Equity. Judge Brockenbrough was the entire law fac-
ulty and conducted the School as Dean. Classes were
held regularly, and the degree of Bachelor of Laws, (B.
L.) was conferred upon students completing success-

  

fully the nine-month session. At the end of each ses-
sion, a Moot Court was held. The course was ar-
ranged so a student might secure his degree by one or
two sessions’ work, as he chose. ‘The Judge had defi-
nite ideas about his teaching :

“Tt will be the professor’s desire to generate in the
mind of the student a taste for the study of Law,” he
said, “to make the student regard Law as a noble and
refined science, and to relieve the study of all its drud-

gery.”

The entire two-year course cost $100, while the
Junior, or one-year course alone cost but $60.

The Washington College catalogue for 1867-68
makes no mention of the ‘School of Law and Equity,
but it does state that the B. L. degree was granted that
year. Historical papers reveal that during its second
session, the School had eight students. This marks
the low mark in student enrollment in the School from
that time until today.

The following year, the “School” became a “De-
partment of Law and Equity.” Courses were enlarg-
ed, and Judge Brockenbrough introduced the case sys-
tem of study, ten years before this method of instruc-
tion was adopted in the Harvard Law School.

“Discussion of leading cases in Law and Equity
constitutes a prominent, and, it is believed, a most val-
uable feature of the plan of instruction adopted,”
states the yellowed catalogue for 1869. “Very free
use is made of those admirable works, Smith’s Leading
Cases, American Leading Cases, and Leading Cases in
Equity.”

A student body numbering thirty-three in 1871
necessitated hiring a new professor, making a faculty
of two. To assist Judge Brockenbrough was chosen
John Randolph Tucker. The former was professor of
Common and Statute Law, and the latter taught Equity
and Public Law. With a faculty numbering two, the
Department at the end of the next session for the first
time graduated a class which totalled in two figures.
Ten men received the Bachelor of Laws degree.

In 1873 the “Department” again became a
“School.” Judge Brockenbrough at this time resigned,
and four years later the founder of instruction in Law
at Washington and Lee died. Professor Tucker was
appointed Dean to succeed him, and Charles A. Graves
was named to assist Tucker. As a stimulus to students
in the recrowned School, a certificate of proficiency
was for the first time awarded to men graduating with
honors.

Dean Tucker in 1874 resigned to take a seat in
Congress, and Professor Graves was selected to suc-

[9]

im E  -. o) ian: oN

ceed him as Dean. By this time, the School had so
enlarged that it was thought necessary to employ an-
other professor. ‘This was done, and the faculty now
numbered three. The catalogue for this year first
mentions a law library, “containing a large collection of
standard text-books.”’

The following year, law instruction was aided by
lecturers, prominent lawyers of the State who came
to Lexington to lecture to law classes at varying inter-
vals during the session. Although these lecturers
were not classed as full-time professors, two visited the
School with some frequency, giving the School the right
to claim a faculty of five. With addition of lecturers,
the School en-
larged, and the
new system “‘met

with great suc-
cess, and fully

realized the high
expectation of
its utility.” The
success
marked that by
the beginning of
the 1876 session,
the School fur-
nished full in-
struction in Law
of Real and Per-
sonal Property,
in Equity Juris-
prudence, in Ev-
idence and_ the
Procedure and
Practice of
Courts, in Mercantile Law and International, Con-
stitutional and Parliamentary Law.

Law courses in 1878 were arranged with a view
toward completion, if desired, in one session of nine
months, “enabling diligent and perserving young men
whose means and time is limited, to prepare themselves
for the Bar by a single year’s hard work.” If the stu-
dent wished, however, he might take two years to get
his degree. At this time, expenses for the entire course
were $115 tor tuition and while room, board,
books, and other necessities were estimated as costing
about $160, making the entire college year cost about
$275.

First detailed statement concerning examinations
appears in the catalogue for 1880, which states that
they were both written and oral, and that the passing
grade was eighty per cent.

The first substantial gift to the Law library came
in 1884, when Vincent L. Bradford, of Philadelphia,
bequeathed to the School his entire library of more than
1,000 volumes. For several years before his death, he

Was SO

fees,

I

 

LAW ScHoot—1931 Grapuatinc CLASS AND FacuLtry

oe ee tee a

had given $100 annually to the School for the purchase
of law books. Purchases made, together with his gift,
formed the nucleus around which was built the present
library of more than 10,000 volumes. ‘The next year
records the first law scholarship granted at Washing-
ton and Lee. It was given by Virginia C. Hamilton
to the man standing highest in the Junior Law class.
In 1889, the school evidently considered “Equity”
more a course-title than a School-title, and the name
was changed to the “School of Law.” Evidently the
Lecturer system had been abandoned, for the cata-
logue mentions nothing about it. ‘Tuition had dropped
to $75, and total expenses for the year for a Law stu-
dent esti-
mated at $210.
During the next
the

School made no

Was

five years,
noticeable ad-
In 189]
nine-month

vances.
the
session was di-
into four

and the

next year tuition

vided
terms,

was” raised to
$80. In 1895,
however, the li-
brary received a
valuable addition
the Hon.
David Dudley
Iield and
by his will gave

it about 1,200

when

 

died

volumes.

John W. Davis, one of the most famous graduates
of the School, was in 1897 appointed assistant profes-
sor. By this time the number of courses taught had
been increased, and the two-year course for securing
a degree was favored. If a student was industrious,
he might attain a B.L. in one year by attending four
hour-classes daily, and going to Moot Court each after-
noon.

An outstanding advancement came in 1898, when a
new Department was added to those already recognized,
making a total of three Departments in the School of
Law. These were (1) the Department of Common
and Statute Law, (2) the Department of Equity and

Corporation Law, and Constitutional and International

law, and, (3) the new deprtment, the Department of
Commercial Law.

The year 1899 is a memorable date in the history
of law instruction at Washington and Lee, for it marks
the first occupancy of ‘Tucker Memorial Hall, a build-

ing devoted exclusively to Law. Solicitation of funds

[ 10 |

 

 

Ae ae ee ym AG A... fee

= FH E

for this building was begun in 1897, construction was by the American Bar Association in 1923, found Wash-
or

8, and in 1899 Law courses first were

ington and Lee selected as one of five Southern Schools

started in 189
taught within its walls.

Washing
ye
Equity
Constitutional and

and Commercial Law, and
International
en With occupancy of Tucker
Hall, the School had been enlarged
to include more courses, chief a-
mong which was a new Department
of Economics. Heury St. George
Tucker was Dean. The two-year
plan for securing a degree was fav-
ered, and if a student wished to
get a B. L. by one year’s work, it
was necessary that he attend class
five hours each day, and be present
at Moot Court each afternoon, a
task the catalogue termed ‘“well-
nigh impossible.” ‘This session, en-
rollment first passed the fifty mark,
with fifty-six students registered for
law courses.

Until 1901, courses in the
School of Law were arranged by
Departments, but at this time they
were changed to be classified as to
year of study, in Junior and Senior
Completion of course for
a degree by one year’s study was at
this time pronounced impossible
without previous law training.

William Reynolds Vance was
appointed Dean in 1902, and the de-
gree LB. L. was changed to LL.B.
Dean Vance served until 1903, when
Martin P. Burks was ciected to
succeed him.

In 1916, the two-year plan
for a degree was discarded, and
the three-year course was

courses.

pronounced the only means of
securing an LL.B. Five years

later, in 1921, the American Bar

It was dedicated to J. Ran-
dolph Tucker, who had served Washington College and
ton and Lee University for more than 26
ars, as Dean of the Law School, and professor of

COMMISSIONER MorRELAND

Dean William H. Moreland,
head of the law school, has been
appointed a member of the com-
mission composed of deans of
seventeen law schools in the
South which will undertake a
study of the various aspects of
lynching. Dean
membership on the committee
was announced recently by the
commission on inter-racial coop-
eration from Atlanta, Georgia.

The purpose of the commis-
sion’s study is “to discover how
to make effective use of existing
legal agencies and procedure, and
to determine what additional leg-
islation or legal machinery may
be needed in the various states to
deal more effectively with the
problem.”

Dean Charles T. McCor-
mick, of North Carolina Univer-
sity law school, has accepted the
chairmanship of the commission.
J. H. Chadbourn, graduate of
North Carolina law school, will
do field work and collect data.

Heads of the following
schools are represented: Ala-
bama, Arkansas, Florida, Geor-
gia, Emory, Mercer, Kentucky,
Tulane, Missouri, Oklahoma,
South Carolina, Furman, Texas,
Southern Methodist, Virginia
and Washington and Lee.

Moreland’s

given this rating and one of a total of thirty-nine
Schools in all parts of the country.
that the present Dean, William Haywood Moreland,
was appointed to succeed Dean Long.

It was this year

“The greatest needs of Wash-
ington and Lee School of Law to-
day,” Dean Moreland said recently,
“are new quarters, more money for
books, and additional teachers, and
a new librarian.”

Enrollment in the School for
the last decade has averaged about
100 students each year. ‘The high
point in registration of Law_ stu-
dents was reached in 1911, when
205 men studied in Tucker Hall.

 

GRID STARS TO KEEP FIT

How do Washington and Lee
football players spend the summer ?

According to a survey made by
a reporter for the Ring-tum Phi,
semi-weekly student newspaper, the
majority of General ball toters will
keep in condition this summer by
undertaking some form of manual
labor or at least keeping in the out-
doors. Listed among the occupa-
tions that the Big Blue gridsters
expect to enter as soon as school is
out for the present session are play-
ing baseball, working in a lumber
camp, and acting as advisor in a
summer camp.

September 7 is the date set by
Coach Jimmy De Hart for the can-
didates for the varsity to return to
Lexington for their customary pre-
school practices. At that time sev-
en monogram winners from. the
1930 machine are expected to report
along with the varsity reserves of
last season and the successful fresh-
man combine, which lost only one

Association recommended that the three-year
course be the only approved one in American Law
Schools.

The Washington and Lee University School of
Law was in 1920 admitted to membership in the As-
sociation of American Law Schools. At this time,
Joseph Ragland Long was Dean of the School, having
been appointed in 1917.

The first list of Grade “A” Law Schools, published

game within the Old Dominion during the past cam-
paign; that to the V. P. I. Goblers.

Playing ball will occupy most of the summer for
“Monk” Mattox, regular quarterback. Mattox did not
receive much training in the DeHart fundamentals
this spring when the football team held regular spring
practice for six weeks as he was busy behind the plate
for the varsity nine, but he will report for the early
September practice when De Hart has his full strength

[11 |

Lie a oe aS ee oe

I

mu ££ Cw 2 ws

 

in uniform for the first time. Jack Jarrett, reserve
back, is another player who will keep in condition for
Jarrett as
pitcher and Mattox as catcher have been a hoodoo to

football by running around the diamond.

the opposition for the Covington, Va., nine for the past
two years and they expect to sign up with that club
again.

“Little Tex” ‘Tilson, Southern Conference wrest-
ling champion in the 165 pound class and tackle for the
varsity for the past two campaigns will be a camp su-
pervisor at his brother’s camp in North Carolina. “Big
Tex” who is assistant coach here, and De Hart are
grooming ‘Little Tex” for an end berth to fill the vac-
ancies left by the graduation of Captain Bledsoe and
Williams who were regular endmen under Coach Gene
Oberst.

3y working with a surveying gang in Maryland,
Gene Martin, quarterback monogram winner, hopes to
keep in training for the coming season. Collis Harris,
veteran guard, also expects to “carry the chain” pro-
viding he does not hear from his application for an
“executive post” in Washington.

It will be the freshman regulars of 1930 who trav-
el to the “woolly west” to swing the axe as a muscle

builder. ‘Tom Boland, captain and guard of the frosh
will leave for the parts unknown of Wyoming to work
in a lumber camp. Bob Eicholtz, tackle, intends to
wrestle logs in a lumber factory.

The cemetary holds no fears for “Bo” Wilson,
fullback, for he expects to trim hedges in a graveyard
for the major part of his vacation. If this job does
not materialize he will sell soda in Connecticut. Amos
Bolen, guard, will don a baker’s cap until September.

By “pounding the pillows” and taking it easy dur-
ing the hot months Joe Sawyers, freshman three num-
eral man, hopes to store up enough energy to gain a
berth in the backfield next fall.

Jimmy DeHart, head coach, and Warren Tilson,
assistant, will report to Lexington early in September to
receive the candidates. “Cy”? Young, former freshman
coach and now varsity backfield assistant coach will also
be on hand when the first whistle blows. For the past
two seasons the big Blue experimented with the Notre
Dame system under the coaching of Gene Oberst but
with the return of DeHart to Washington and Lee the
Generals will start play under the Warner system, the
style DeHart used while he was coach here five years
ago and during his regime at Duke University.

 

Former Campus Leader: James Thomas, ’23

“Jimmy was a leader of all campus activities and one of the best
all-around men of Washington and Lee. A three-letter man in ath-
letics, a leader of social affairs, a member of most campus activities,
and always a student, he represents the true type of Washington and
l.ce man — an athlete, a scholar, and a gentleman.”

Thomas studied commerce, and was graduated in 1923 with the
A.B. degree. He gained a reputation throughout the South as a
track and basketball star, running the 100 and 220-yard dashes on
the cinder path, the only time he ran a longer race, the 400 at a
Southern Conference meet, he did it in 50 sceonds flat.
football career. Until
that he stay off the football
It is still insisted that when he did go out for football, in his

Jimmy also had a short but successful
his last year it was ‘“‘doctor’s orders”’
field.
senior year, he was so fast that he left his interference behind—and

‘ ° . = . PIM. 2.
consequently took some awful beatings from opposing tacklers. This
must have been true, for he had two ribs broken in one of the early

games of the season. This was the year in which Washington and

 

Lee and Virginia resumed football relations. Jimmy’s ribs were better by the Virginia game, and he got back
in. Everybody knows Virginia won, but they'll never forget that little Jimmy ‘Thomas scored every one of
Washington and Lee’s points on forward passes.

He is a member of Delta Tau Delta fraternity, “13” Club, “11” Club, Cotillion Club, Kappa Beta Phi,
Pi Alpha Nu, was captain of varsity track, on varsity basketball team three years, and vice-president of the
Athletic Council.

Jimmy went into Florida real estate after leaving school, then into the bonding business, and is now at
Fort Worth, Texas, with the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Co. He is married to the former Miss
Catherine Howe, sister of Otis and Robert Howe, who probably were sent to Washington and Lee by
Jimmy Thomas.

 

 

 

[ 12 ]

re

M ASS 2. aoe

Columbia Honors Dr. Gaines with Litt.D.

R. FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES,

president of Washington and Lee University,

was given the honorary degree of Doctor of
Letters at the 177th annual commencement exercises
of Columbia University at New York on June 2. The
presentation was made by Dr. Nicholas Murray But-
ler, president of Columbia at afternoon exercises held
on the Columbia campus.

In conferring the honorary degree upon Dr.
Gaines, Dr. Butler said: “Francis Pendleton Gaines,
president of Washington and Lee University, native
ef South Carolina, trained at Richmond College and
made doctor of philosophy at Columbia in 1924: earn-
est student and teacher of English language and _ its
literature; editor and writer; now president of that
admirable American college which bears two outstand-
ing names which are forever intimately related by rea-
son of the historic words spoken of the first by the
father of the second.”

Others receiving honorary degress included Dr.
Frank Porter Graham, president of the University of
North Carolina: Claude Moore Fuess and Edna Fer-
ber, authors; Sir James Arthur Salter and Seymour
Parker Gilbert.

ApprEss Is BROADCAST

Earlier in the day, Dr. Gaines was a speaker at the
annual luncheon of the trustees and alumni of the uni-
versity which traditionally opens the commencement
program. In a brief talk which was broadcast over
station WABC and 12 other stations, Dr. Gaines de-
fended present educational methods and tendencies and
criticized critics of the present educational system who,
he asserted, find fault with American colleges whatever
course they follow.

Beginning in a semi-humorous mood, Dr. Gaines
praised the practice of universities in awarding hon-
orary degrees to outstanding individuals because it call-
ed the attention of the public at large to the “meritor-
ious deeds and actions being performed by these in-
dividuals.”

Declaring that “educators are seemingly between
the devil and the deep blue sea,” because of the criticism
showered upon them when they talk either one or the
other of alternative courses open to them, Dr. Gaines
said:

“We who have academic responsibilities don’t
know just what to do. If we lean too heavily toward
the classics, we will be too far away from the realities
of life. If we stress vocational guidance, we deprive

the students of many of the greatest things had by man-
kind.

“If we insist upon compulsory attendance, we are
in danger of becoming too rigid. On the other hand,
if we allow students full freedom, we deprive them of
that training and discipline so essential to good citizen-
ship.”

Epucator’s DiLEMMA

The dilemma in which the educator finds himself
when he attempts to please critics and reformers was
described by Dr. Gaines, who said “there is always agi-
tation for reform.” If universities allowed student
self-government and discipline, he said, they would be
criticized for being too liberal and for withholding ben-
eficial discipline and if they have strict faculty super-
vision, they are accused of depriving the student of ex-
ercise of the functions of self-government.

“Let the students pick their courses and there will
be chaotic conditions,” he warned. “Let them have
the option of attending classes and some will say there
should be strict supervision by the faculty for disci-
plinary purposes.”

Novras_e CAREER IN EDUCATION

Dr. Gaines, 38, is a native South Carolinian, and
won his Ph. D. at Columbia in 1924. His baccalaureate
degree was won at Richmond College in 1912, and he
was made a doctor of literature at Duke in 1928. He
has been in educational work nearly 20 years, serving
as preparatory school principal, professor of English
and as administrator, having come to Washington and
Lee from Wake Forest, to which school he went as
president in 1927. He has taught at Columbia and the
University of Virginia in summer schools and before
going to Wake Forest he also taught in Mississippi Ag-
ricultural and Mechanical College and Furman Uni-
versity.

He has done newspaper work in a literary line and
published one book, “The Southern Plantation,” and 1s
a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa
and Phi Gamma Delta.

Since coming to Virginia as head of Washington
and Lee he has been much in demand as a speaker
and is rated one of the most forceful orators in the

South.

 

James A. Lee, 17, is with the McGraw-Hill Pub-
lishing Co., 10th Ave. and 36th St., N. Y.

 

Dr. Frank Leech, ’18, is a successful surgeon
practicing in Lexington, Va.

[ 13 ]

ot || lUB oa a

me GB ere ee a SB

 

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Five “Lee Boys”

 

welINE OF the most interesting and unusual events

 

}pjot the 1931 commencement, and of any com-
7 |mencement, was the initiation into the Phi Beta

 

 

 

Kappa society of five men who were once students in
Washington College under the presidency of General
Robert E. Lee.

The “Lee boys” were initiated into the honorary
scholarship fraternity at noon on Monday in Lee Chapel.
Seated on chairs facing the recumbent statue of Gen-
eral Lee, the five former students, all of them now
gray, heard the ritual which united them once more in
a fellowship dominated by the spirit of the great leader.

The five “Lee boys” initiated were Thomas J.
Arnold, B. L. °67, of
Elkins, W. Va..; Dr.
S. H. Chester, A. B.
‘72, of Montreat, N.
C.; Judge Robert Ew-
ing, (67-08), of
Nashville, Tenn.;
Judge Stafford G.
Whittle, (‘68-’09),
LL.D., °19, of Mar-
tinsville, Va.; and
General Henry _ T.
Wickham, A. B. ’68,
of Richmond, Va.

Three other stu-
dents under General

 

lee were elected to
the society but were
unable to come here

 

intelligent parents, were fortunate in their choice of an
Alma Mater. ‘hat they are here today at our invita-
tion is proof that they have consistently cherished the
splendid ideals exemplified before them by their Presi-
dent and our Great Southern Chieftain. It is pecu-
liarly fitting that the exercises should be held in the
chapel which was dear to the heart of General Lee,
where his body lies, and which is replete with an at-
mosphere of veneration for his noble character.”

Nearly two score members of Phi Beta Kappa, in-
cluding alumni, members of the faculty, and guests,
were on the rostum of the chapel during the initiation.
Following the ceremony, the “Lee boys” were personally
welcomed into : the
Washington and Lee
chapter by _ those
present.

The three ‘Lee
boys” who were un-
able to be present
this year will be initia-
ted into the honor
fraternity whenever
they are able to make
the trip to Lexington.

 

“SPECS’ ” SPECS.

“Shall ‘Specs’
wear spectacles,” is
the problem that is
facing the V. M. I.

 

for the initiation be-
cause of illness. They
were Judge William H. Tayloe, ’75, of Uniontown,
Ala.; Colonel Jo Lane Stern, B. L. ’70, of Richmond,
Va.; and G. A. Mahan, 69, of Hannibal, Mo.

The initiation ceremony was conducted by Dr.
Edgar Finley Shannon, head of the English depart-
ment in the University and president of the Washing-
ton and Lee Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, assisted by
Dr. Livingston Waddell Smith, head of the mathe-
matics department and secretary of the chapter.

In concluding the initiation, Dr. Shannon said:

“T am sure we all appreciate this occasion as
unique. Tender memories entwine themselves about it,
for we realize that these candidates were personal par-
ticipants in college life when General Robert E. Lee
was president of the institution. Those events have now
become the most glorious part of the traditions of the
college. These men, like the wise child who chooses

THE Five “L&E Boys”

authorities. War is
being waged and
friends are ceasing to speak to each other in the contro-
versy which is being waged as to whether the statue
of General Francis H. Smith at Virginia Military In-
stitute should wear spectacles or not.

Smith, a major general in the Virginia volunteers,
was known as “Specs” throughout the entire first fifty
years of V. M. I., during which time he was super-
intendent. The General wore square rimmed spectacles
at all times and was never known to be without them.
And now when the time comes to make a statue of
him there is grave doubt as to whether the square
frames should be parked on the bridge of his nose.

Some of the alumni of the Institute believe’ that
to leave the spectacles off would be equal to mutilat-
ing the features of General Smith and that he would
not be General Smith without them. Others say that
statues just don’t wear spectacles.

| 14"

_—

 

= H E ee ee ee RS My A Ga AS | eee
. >
President's Report Reveals Progress
SNALYSIS and inquiry into the needs and en- of which $1000 shall be expended each year. In Sep-

\deavor at Washington and Lee were brought
mS lout by the 1930-31 report emanating from
the office of President Francis P. Gaines. This report
which is submitted annually to the Board of Trustees
is supplemented by reports of other officials of the Uni-

  
 
 

   

versity.

The year which just closed was unusual in terms
of nation wide economic depression, but statistics
showed that student enrollment ran to 932 as compared
with the 912 of last year. Manifest seriousness and
tenacity of purpose by the students also reduced the
number of withdrawals to a fewer number than for sev-
eral years past. h

As a gesture to our gratitude to the first great
benefactor in our institutional history, Dr. Gaines
pointed out that the University faces a situation in the
approaching bicentennial anniversary of Washington's
birth that may be broadly defined both as a duty and
an opportunity. A special almuni committee composed
of Messrs. Davis, Baker, Martin, Epes, and Waddell
has been appointed to make plans for our part in pay-
ing honor to Washington.

The fact that the University now has more appli-
cations for admission than it can possibly accept is a
hopeful sign for the future as it leaves the privilege of
selection, in some measure, more open. ‘The adminis-
tration is aware of the task in safe-guarding the qual-
ity of the material, and however important student fees
are for the budget there must be no compromise in the
requirements for admission.

The needs of the University are apparent. Every
member of the faculty can point out some important
opportunity neglected. With admirable results certain
sums could be spent in improvement of our fine old
buildings; and enormous would be the advantage of a
few new buildings.

The Law School has proceeded to function smooth-
ly despite the existing meager faculty, equipment and
financial support. ‘The work of the students has been
commendable and this year a creditable group has been
graduated, a number of which have more than aver-
age ability.

In 1920 the Law School was admitted to the As-
sociation of American Law Schools with the provisions
of maintaining certain standards with reference to fac-
ulty, library, and courses of study. At the time of
admission all requirements were met, but in 1927 the
American Bar Association provided that the school
should have a library of not less than 7500 volumes and
at least $7500 expenditures over a period of five years

tember, 1932, these figures will be changed to 10,000
volumes, with the expenditures of $10,000. The School
meets the present requirements, but the danger for the
future is apparent..

Four problems confront the Law School at present.

1. Other and more adequate quarters for the school.
The present 32-year-old school is inadequate in library,
reading room, lighting fixtures, professors’ quarters,
and other facilities.

2. The teaching staff of five is too small. The
limited staff necessitates the teaching of a_ restricted,
but thorough curriculum.

3. The Law faculty is seriously concerned with the
library. ‘The requirement of 10,000 volumes is met but
that is the minimum, and the library is deficient in many
respects.

4. The library has never been properly adminis-
tered as it never had a law librarian.

There is no doubt that the school falls below the
standard of a moderately efficient law school while at
the same time having the reputation of Washington
and I.ee probably maintained to a greater extent by its
law graduates than any of its other alumni.

Forty-eight candidates for Commerce degrees as
compared with the thirty-four of last year show the
increase in the scope of that department. The teach-
ing faculty includes ten full-time teachers, and three
part-time instructors.

The Conference on Business Affairs held this year
was the most important development in the School of
Commerce and Administration of this session. This
provided a contact with business leaders which had
heretofore been lacking, and if the Conference is re-
peated annually will do much to meet this need.

The William L. Wilson Commerce Club was or-
ganized this year thus commemorating and honoring the
name of William I. Wilson in whose memory the foun-
dation was established for the School of Commerce.

Changes in the Chemical and Engineering curri-
culum, the most important of which was the adoption
of the General Degree of Bachelor of Science, took
place in the School of Applied Science under Dr. James
L.. Howe, Dean.

The exploratory courses offered last year to fresh-
men had caused an overtaxing of laboratories and
additional provisions are necessary immediately.

Washington and Lee’s reputation as a pre-medi-
cal school has caused an increase in chemistry students
and many are completing three and four year courses
in that subject.

[ 15 ]

- 21 EB a ae ee

A degree of Master of Science would solve the
problem of facilities for a few more courses as it would
allow the University to retain a few of its B.S. grad-
uates as instructors, thus doing away with under-grad-
uate instructors.

Looking to the future, several lines of development
present themselves:

1. The Department of Civil Engineering is badly
hampered by lack of space, especially for laboratory
work,

2. A Chemistry lecture room for which the founda-
tion was laid when the Chemistry building was built, is
a necessity.

3. A Chemical museum is a most valuable adjunct
to Chemical instruction.

4. The grounds in front of the Chemistry building
are an eyesore and cannot fail to produce an unpleas-
ant impression on the large number of visitors and
tourists who pass the building.

5. The Chemistry building has been only partially
equipped with lighting fixtures.

Journalism at Washington and Lee received this
year a class A rating in the American Association of
Schools and Departments of Journalism.

A new curriculum was adopted leading to a Bache-
lor of Arts degree with a certificate in Journalism. Only
juniors and seniors will be admitted to the new courses.

The University News Bureau has functioned prof-

I

Me A ee Ae Bo

itably and plans point to even more efficient service.

Over 200 editors and publishers attended the First
Southern Editorial Institute sponsored by the depart-
ment on January 16-17. In October the department
carried on the Sixth Annual Inter-scholastic Press As-
sociation, a gathering of high and preparatory school
student editors.

A library budget is needed to bring the present one
up to date and to prevent its decline to uselessness.

Harmony within the department has characterized
the work of the year and its reputation as a leading
branch of the institution will continue if stability rather
than rapidity characterizes its growh.

With a view to increasing among the students the
knowledge of many types of physical endeavor indiv-
idual activities have been stressed in the gym classes.
Hygiene classes have also gone forward in the fresh-
man and sophomore year men.

Intra-mural sports have enjoyed the most success-
ful season ever recorded at Washington and Lee, and
interest was at a high pitch beginning with football and
continuing through baseball.

An appropriation of $2,500 is needed for regrading
and resurfacing of the tennis courts.

Co-operation among all members of the inter-col-
legiate, intra-mural, and physical education staffs was
of the highest order.

 

tain

 

sident of the University Press Club.

Company, in Brooklyn.

disposition, high ideals, and big ambitions.”

 

“Toad” Snively Carries On

Nobody knows why they called him “Toad.”
nickname with him from his home in Hagerstown, Md.
started in his freshman year to become ‘“‘one of the most capable and
popular men on the campus.”
tive in everything, and had the unusual honor of making Omicron
Delta Kappa in his sophomore year.

He studied commerce, and received his degree in 1923. He is a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma, Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Kappa
Psi, White Friars, “13” Club, “11” Club, Cotillion Club, Kappa Beta
Phi, and Pi Delta Epsilon.

Snively couldn’t quite help himself, so he played Varsity basket-
ball for three years.
and manager for two seasons.
for the Troudabours, worked on the Calyx staff, and was editor-in-
chief his senior year.
tum Phi staff, and further satisfied his journalistic bent by being pre-
And he had time to be assistant cheer leader for two years.

After graduation “Toad” went to New York asa partner and Sales Manager of the Maryland Mat
In New York he continued to do things for W ashington and Lee and was instru-
mental in getting the W. and L. New York Alumni Association organized.

His classmates remembered him, in the Calyx which he edited, as “possessed a winning grin, a happy

“Toad” has been married about five months, and is now at home working in Hagerstown.

He brought the
“Toad”

He was interested in everything, ac-

He played tennis for four years, and was cap-
He went behind the footlights

He had the itch to scribble, wrote on the Ring-

 

 

[ 16 ]

 

 

- 4s ‘te ote
gsr 3%3x5S Wartala

I

vet Swian- Moy 1932

Bee te a rae oe
S413 4-

N E

Devoted Life to Education

 

smaiN THE Presbyterian Cemetery in Lexington

 

| slis the grave of a man whose whole life was

 

* ‘\devoted to education. He was the president

of two colleges—one now Washington and |lee—and
the founder of another.

George Junkin, the seventh president of Washing-
ton and Lee (then Washington College), was the first
head of Lafayette College located in Easton, Pennsyl-
vania. Lafayette, chartered in 1826, had for a long
time been nothing more than a dream and it was not
until Doctor Junkin was elected president in 1832 that
it became a reality. The college occupied a farm of
about seventy acres and the plan was to give the stu-
dents employment along with their college courses.
There was little money and the struggling institution
had to depend largely on the earnings of its students
for its support.

Doctor Junkin took with him most of the faculty
from the old Pennsylvania Academy of Manual Labor

 

which had been located at Germantown and this was
the nucleus of Lafayette.

For a long time work was carried on in temporary
structures often built by the students themselves, but
increasing contributions made possible the erection of
more permanent buildings and the college became well
established.

It was largely due to these early labors of Doctor
Junkin that Lafayette has attained its present status.
Today, it has nearly 1100 students and 85 members
of the faculty and is one of the best known colleges
in eastern Pennsylvania.

After nine years of service at Lafayette, Miami
University at Oxford, Ohio, called him to service.
The university was in difficulties. It had been founded
in 1823 in pursuance of a gift of a township of land
donated by the United States government for the
establishment of a literary institution. Robert Bishop
was its first president, but by 1840 he found the work
of founding a new institution too great for his age
and health. He resigned and Doctor Junkin was
elected second president. He accepted the position and
repeated his work of organization there. Today, Miami
University is a flourishing institution with a student
body of 1770 and 125 faculty members.

When Rev. Henry Ruffner resigned from Wash-
ington College, Doctor Junkin was selected by the
trustees to fill his place. He took office in 1848 and
found work in a well established institution smoother
than it had been in the other two. The number of stu-

dents increased under his regime until 1861 when he
came into conflict with the secessionist attitude. Stu-
dents of the college had placed the flag of the Con-
federacy on the flagpole and Doctor Junkin, who was
strongly in favor with the Union, ordered them to take
it down. They refused and seeing that there would be
constant friction if he continued in office, he resigned.

He retired to his son’s home in Philadelphia and
spent an active period during the war doing work
among the soldiers. He died in 1868 and was buried
in a cemetery overlooking the Schuylkill river. Later
his remains were removed to Lexington where they
now rest.

 

O. D. K. MAKES ANNUAL TOUR

A larger number of speakers than usual went out
from Washington and Lee University this spring on the
annual speaking tour sponsored by the University with
the aid of Omicron Delta Kappa, for the purpose of
introducing the University to various prep schools and
high schools throughout Virginia, West Virginia, North
Carolina, Maryland and ‘Tennessee.

Among the places visited were Hagerstown, Md. ;
Martinsburg, W. Va.; and Richmond, Petersburg,
Bristol, Newport News, Portsmouth, Norfolk, Clifton
Forge, Danville, Washington, Lynchburg and Staunton,
all in Virginia.

An unusually large number of men cooperated in
order to assure the success of the plan. Although O.
D. K. furnished most of the men for the tours, the
men chosen to represent Washington and Lee were not
restrictive to this group. Among those speaking were
Kemper Jennings, Tom Davenport, Frank McClure,
Frank Smith, H. T. Jones, William Venable, Robert
Cavett, John Devine, “Beef” Hoffman, Jack Jarrett,
Ross Malone, Leigh Williams, Wilbur Owen, Charlie
Day, Eddie Graves, Tex Tilson, Bill Sugg, Johnny
Ladd, Lewis Powell, Hugh Morison, Dick MacMillan,
Steward Crenshaw, J. K. Ryland, and Tom Fitzhugh.

 

HOOVER MAY SPEAK AT W. AND L.

Washington and Lee University may have the
pleasure of hearing President Herbert Hoover make an
address to the student body next fall, if present plans
go through. President Francis Pendleton Gaines per-
sonally extended the invitation to President Hoover on
his recent visit to Washington. As is the custom at
the White House, President Hoover took the matter
under advisement and will make his decision later.

[ 17 ]

LIBRARY Of
* ASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VAI

= ME a £ BD oaeeN

STUDENTS EDIT DAILY fog (Ef

Eight students of the Journalism Department took
complete charge of the “Covington Virginian,’’ the
daily paper at Covington, May 4. Under the supervis-
ion of Professor O. W. Riegel, the students traveled to
the neighboring city for the day and Editor Richard F.
Beirne initiated the prospective journalists into the
ways of a city daily.

A negro murder, a bank failure, and some hum-
orous pranks in the Clifton Forge Police Department
furnished the major part of the local news for the
writers.

In an explanation to the readers of his paper Mr.
Beirne published a box article on the front page stating:

“With the exception of this acknowledgement,
every line of every edition of the ‘Covington Evening
Virginian’ today is exclusively the work of a special
staff provided by the Lee Memorial School of Journal-
ism, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.

“Regularly organized with editors and reporters,
this staff took over the entire editorial department this
morning. ‘The customary runs—courts, police, mar-
kets, finance, sports and all others—were covered by
this staff who also wrote all editorials, book reviews, and
other special articles, as well as handling the Associa-
ted Press reports, special dispatches and correspondence

I

mee Oe ee ee

with nearby towns in Virginia and West Virginia. They
wrote all the headlines, read and corrected all the proof,
arranged the layout of each page and selected cuts and
cartoons which accompany some of the articles . . .”

Governor Pollard wired the Virginian congratu-
lating the staff on its work. He wired:

“It is with pleasure I am informed that the Lee
Memorial School of Journalism of the Washington and
Lee University is entrusted today with the publication
of the ‘Covington Virginian,’ thus affording the mem-
bers of the journalistic class actual experience, such as
will reflect credit, not alone upon the Lee School of
Journalism, but upon Washington and Lee University
as well.

“There are few more powerful agencies in life to-
day for the rapid dissemination of news than the public
press. ‘The men who follow the newspaper profession
in life assume a real responsibility. ‘The actual exper-
lence in getting out a daily newspaper, while probabry
new to the students of the Lee School of Journalism,
I rec-
ommend the enterprise of Publisher Richard F. Beirne

will be for this reason more valuable to them.

and the ‘Covington Virginian, which makes possible
this experience to the members of the Lee School.”
Students making the trip were: J. A. Collison, J.
W. Barger, D. G. Price, G. Nunn, J. Crane, F. Cun-
ningham, G. M. Lapsley, and A. J. Leibowitz.

 

Homer Adams Holt, Lawyer

“Rocky” Holt came to W. and L. in 1915 from his home in

W. and L. to study law,
sor of law from ’23 to

Nuckols and Holt.

 

 

Lewisburg, West Virginia, where he had attended Greenbriar Mili-
tary Academy, and was graduated from the academic school with an
A.B. degree in 718.

sy that time, Holt had won Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and was president of the student body. His social fraternity
is Phi Psi. He also belonged to Pi Alpha Nu, Cotillion Club, Square
and Compass, Phi Delta Phi, “13’’ Club, and Sigma.

Holt gained a reputation during his undergraduate days as a
brilliant student and mathematic scholar. He had an aptitude for
the science of figures that led him into original work on quadratic
formulas, and taught classes in freshman mathematics while yet a
senior in the academic school.

“Rocky's” extra-curricular activities were more social than ath-
letic, but as an inter-fraternity athlete he was an old standby. — Phi
Psi baseball teams for several years were built around catcher Holt
who was always a mainstay behind the plate.

Two years after receiving his A.B. degree, and after serving in
the army as 2nd Lieutenant with the C. A. C., Holt came back to

and got his LI. B. in 1922. He then taught in the law school as assistant profes-

G0:

Now at Fayetteville, W. Va., practicing law, he is the latest member to come into the firm of Dillon,

Holt married Miss Isabel Wood, of Charlottesville, Va., in 1924.

 

[ 18 ]

 

a ee

ee

M A G&G 2 UF UR

Campus Surveyors Delve Into Past

s|\WO engineering students, J. Alex Veech and
© |Herbert O. Winston, this year completed a full
S\survey of the Washington and Lee campus

  

 

for their senior thesis which definitely established the
true boundary lines of the 70 acres composing the cam-
pus proper.

No professional survey of University property as
inclusive and complete as that made by the young en-
gineers had existed since 1808, when C. W. Oltmanns
surveyed the 34 acres of original land bought from An-
drew Alexander by Washington College in 1803, one
year after Liberty Hall was destroyed by fire.

A survey by Carlisle Humphreys, son of Profes-
sor Humphreys, made about 1912, consisted of a map
of the campus, but contained no bearings or starting
points, the work being a picture survey that included
no working map.

These two were the only partial surveys Veech and
Winston had to begin work with. It meant that all
information for the beginning of the project had to be
“ferreted out” from old deeds, titles and property rec-
ords that had lain untouched in the files of the Univer-
sity and the County Court house for many years.
Tracing titles and deeds meant searching in numerous
odd and out-of-the-way places.

The two students began their work in Septem-
ber, 1930, at the beginning of their senior year. In
their search for the separate plots of land making up
the total property, the size of each plot and its location
with respect to the present campus, it was discovered
that many deeds and records were so vague in their de-
scription that it was quite impossible to locate them on
the old map. ‘This entailed the use of every possible
source of information that could be found. Minute
books of University Trustees dating from 1803 to 1900
were carefully read, and were found to be of great aid
in the hunt for definite information. A week was spent
in going over these old records. ‘The hunt for definite
property lines and starting points necessary before the
survey could begin, led to interviews with some of the
oldest inhabitants of Lexington. | Dean Campbell told
the engineers what he remembered of the property own-
ers along Jefferson and S$. Main streets who lived there
during his childhood. Mr. Matthew Paxton, editor of
the Rockbridge County News, aided with information
dating back to his youthful days. Mr. J. McD. Adair,
Mr. Pettigrew, Mr. Hugh White, Mr. A. T. Shields,
County Clerk of Rockbridge County, and Mr. Henry
Boley, all helped in the discovery of “leads” toward the
location of the old properties. By notes taken from
this information, many misplaced records were found,

and the property identified which makes up the present
campus.

In October 1782, when Liberty Hall was incor-
porated by the Virginia legislature as Liberty Hall Aca-
demy, the school bought two tracts of land, one from
William Alexander, and the adjoining piece of property
from Joseph Walker. On this land, in 1793, a stone
building was erected, and used until 1802, when it was
destroyed by fire. ‘The next year, the trustees traded
the land on which the former Academy building stood
for about thirty acres of land along Wood's creek. The
trade was made with Andrew, son of William Alexan-
der from whom the Liberty Hall land was bought
when the Academy first moved to Lexington. The land
included in this trade makes up the original part of the
present Washington and Lee campus, and it was this
land that was surveyed by Mr. Oltmanns in 1868.

After the college was built on this property, the
trustees began from time to time to buy land from ad-
jacent property owners. Along with land that was
bought, other pieces were given to the college by the
owners. ‘This expansion was continued, until today
the campus proper is made up of about 70 acres.

‘rom the descriptions in the deeds, a plot of each
separate piece of property was drawn to a small scale,
cut out, and superimposed upon the map of the true
outline of the present campus, which was drawn for this
purpose from the actual instrumental survey which
Veech and Winston made. ‘The difference in method
and accuracy between former and present day survey-
ing practice was brought out at this point, for property
outlines drawn from the old deeds often overlapped
each other, and hence did not fit into the drawing made
from the actual survey. This overlapping is a result
of former measuring methods. Measurements made by
the old surveyors were taken along the ground without
the accurate horizontal measurements that can be taken
today with the precision instruments in use.

Veech and Winston worked all year, establishing
true boundaries of the campus property, measuring each
building and locating it, and adjusting definitely for fu-
ture use those points on the campus which establish its
legal property lines.

Throughout the past year the two engineers were
seen daily with transits, levels, tapes, rods and stakes,
working on the campus, and when they couldn't be seen
they could be found waving their arms out on the ath-
letic field, the tennis courts, or down in the ravine
splashing in Wood's creek. The ordinary surveying
party is made up of at least three men, but Veech and
Winston conducted the greater part af their field work

[ 19 ]

om & A .& WU a -N

without the help of rodmen or “stake carriers,” doing
between them what a professional party would enlist
four or five men to accomplish. ‘This field work was
completed the first of May, but during the same period
the plotting, calculating, and drawing up of the field
work, which included a map showing the location of all
buildings and property located from the deeds, and an
outline map of the new survey, was carried on indoors.

Before this survey was completed it might be said
that boundary lines of the campus “ran back to a cer-
tain fence line,” and that they were more “traditional”
than they were certain. The new survey will result in
the final establishment and production of deeds and
plans which can be used as legal proof of the land own-
ed by the University.

Veech and Winston, besides selecting for their en-
gineering thesis a project which required more than or-
dinary effort, accuracy and aptitude, have rendered a
valuable service to Washington and Lee.

 

PIEROTTI BECOMES WRESTLER.

Notre Dame has its Savoldi, Illinois has its Mc-
Millan, Northwestern has its Bruder, and Dartmouth
has its Sonnenberg, but these well-known athletes and,
more recently, converts to the wrestling game, will have
to contend with Washington and Lee’s entry in A\l-
bert Pierotti.

Quick money in the “tug and maul racket” has
made its impression on Pierotti, former Blue and White
athlete and, as a result, he has decided to use his abil-
ity in the square ring. Sport followers in Charleston,
W. Va., and they are a legion as far as Washington
and Lee is concerned, were treated to a real surprise
recently when the Consolidated Press, through the
Charleston Gazette, announced to the world that Pier-
otti was the latest disciple of the mat game.

Pierotti, without a doubt, has a background for
a successful career which his record at Washington
and Lee bears out. Coming out of the North from the
little town of Everett, Mass., where he was picked as
the All-Scholastic center in football, Albert IF. Pierott,
as his full name is written, proceeded to win for him-
self a regular birth on the football team at his chosen
Alma Mater.

Followers of the game soon realized that the best
center in the East and South was performing on the
Lexington team, and this honor was given him at the
end of the 1914 season. It was this team, together
with “Cy” Young and “Jiggs’’ Donohue, that Pierotti
helped to its first South Atlantic championship. He
continued to perform at his old position throughout the
years of 1914-15-16, being chosen as captain in his last
year.

In basketball he also played as a regular in the sea-
sons of 1914-15-16. As a track man, he used his 180

I

ee eee ee ee

 

 

pounds to the best advantage and won his monogram as
a weight man.

Completing the sport cycle, which was destined to
bring four major monograms to him for three straight
years, was baseball, which saw him as a pitcher. Be-
ing a mainstay on the team brought its reward to Pier-
otti and in his last year on the diamond he led the var-
sity as its captain.

Love of baseball drew him to the Boston Braves in
1920 and for two years he worked as a regular. In
1921, with his team eliminated from a chance to win the
pennant and the end of the season in sight, he was in-
strumental in dashing the hopes of the New York
Giants by defeating them in a close game.

Cleveland and Milwaukee were his next stopping
points in his baseball career and he finally ended up by
being appointed captain and coach of each team during
his stay with those clubs.

With professional baseball behind him, he engaged
in professional football, playing for a while with the
Cleveland team in the American League.

At present he is holding the position of coach and
teacher at the William School at Chelsea, Mass.

Steadfastness of purpose and a determination to
achieve his goal has woven itself into a net around this
General who should be a model for the Washington and
Lee type. Faced with the necessity of leaving school
in 1916, Pierotti made up his mind that a degree was
his goal. Careful planning of the future brought him
back to Lexington for single semesters in 1920-22-23
and with the completion of his final term, the Bachelor
of Arts degree was granted him by the University.

With the boxing game now in the rut, wrestling
has come into prominence throughout the country.
Thousands are flocking to the arena to see the human
inastodons engage in the ancient Greek game.

Football players hold the stage at present, but the
answer to the challenge of the present group will soon
be forthcoming from one whom students of his time
will always remember as a real athlete, a steadfast stu-
dent and a typical Washington and Lee gentleman.

Entrance of Albert Pierotti into his third profes-
sional field will be watched with interest.

 

CAFFERY VISITS LEXINGTON.
Lieutenant-Colonel Charles S. Caffery, ‘OO, paid
the University a visit during the week of May 9, when
in Lexington to inspect the Virginia Military Institute.
Col. Caffery was graduated from West Point after
leaving Washington and Lee. He is now located in

Washington.

 

Ted Simmons, ’24, of New Orleans, La., was a
visitor at the Alumni Building on April 21st. He is
with the Pan-American Life Insurance Co.

[ 20 ]

~ a) oe. oe rN

. os

——eEE~7~"

I

ma 6 ee A ae eee

Rules of 60 Years Ago Were Strict

IXTY-SIX years ago, Washington College
students must have been the cause of many a

  

eray hair in parents’ and professors’ heads.
At least, this is inferred by the strict moral rules im-
posed upon the student body in 1865.

On the crisp pages of a yellowed copy of ‘The
Charter and Laws, and Trustees and Faculty of Wash-
ington College,” for 1865, “Moral Rules” and “Rules
of Order” are listed with no indecision, occupying
nearly ten pages.

Among the Moral Rules, we find that:

“Freedom of worship . . . shall be enjoyed by all
connected with the College.

‘All students shall attend divine service every Sab-
bath day ... Every student shall be ready to make
true answer when inquired of by the Faculty respecting
his attendance at Church.

“On Sundays no student shall engage in any sport,
make any noise, or be guilty of other behavior incon-
sistent with a decent respect for the sacredness of the
day.

“No student shall play at cards, dice, or any other
game of hazard, make bets, or associate with vicious
or disorderly persons.

“Students shall not attend any social entertainment
or public exhibition, without special permission in each
case.

“They shall not visit a tavern without permission,
nor go to any tippling house, or any place of ill-fame,
become intoxicated, use profane or obscene language,
or engage in any sort of mischief, or violate any pre-
cept of the decalogue.

“No student shall bring any intoxicating liquor in-
to College, have any in his room, or participate in drink-
ing it within the College precincts . . . nor shall a stu-
dent make an entertainment, or attend one, without spe-
cial permission.

“No student shall be concerned in fighting a duel,
under the penalty of expulsion. Sham duels with fire-
arms are also prohibited.

“All guns, gunpowder,
swordcanes, and other deadly weapons are strictly pro-
hibited in the College grounds.

“No student shall in any manner aid or abet an-
other in commission of an offence; nor shall aid him to
escape detection, by watching for him, giving him no-
tice of the presence or approach of an officer; or ac-
companying him when going to commit an offence, or
in any other manner.”

Rules of Order were no less strict, stating that:

“The students shall practice cleanliness and decen-

pistols, swords, dirks,

cy in their persons, their rooms, and about the Col-
lege; and when they appear in public or at any of the
College exercises they shall be decently clothed, and ob-
serve proper decorum. The Faculty may, whenever
a student’s room is not decent and clean, order it to be
scrubbed out, and charge the cost to his deposits.

‘When a student is found improperly out of his
room by an officer, he shall forthwith return.

“When the practice of being up to a late hour of
the night is found by the Faculty to be injurious to the
good order of the College, they shall assign an hour not
earlier than ten, nor later than eleven o’clock, by which
hour every student, unless by permission in case of sick-
ness, shall extinguish his light and retire to bed.”

With regard to boarding and lodging, the Charter
says:

“Students shall not remain in College in vacation,
without permission; and when permitted to remain,
shall behave with propriety, or any officer of the Col-
lege may order them to leave the premises forthwith.

‘Students shall not at any time during the session,
without permission, go more than five miles from the
College, and on Sunday, not more than one mile.”

 

°31 STARTS SCHOLARSHIP FUND

The senior class of 1931 voted to turn over the div-
idends, from insurance policies taken out, to the Uni-
versity for a scholarship fund.

The measure as voted consisted in the following
three provisions :

(1) Each member of the senior class is expected to
take out an insurance policy of $1,000 and assign the
dividends to trustees for a minimum period of five
years.

(2) The Board of Trustees is to be composed of :
the president of the University, the President of the
student body and the alumni secretary.

(3) The trustees are to administer this fund as a
scholarship fund.

Working on the presumption that an average of
100 men will take out these policies each year, it has
been estimated that the fund should amount to $30,000
in 10 years.

The idea of the plan is based on the feeling that
every graduating class should give something to the
University. Any member of a class who would pre-
fer to give $25 in a lump sum to the fund will be per-
fectly at liberty to do so, and such action will be abso-
lutely in keeping with the policy of the class.

[ 21 |

om: oe Bae

“HOLTS” WERE RECORD MAKERS

Every graduate for the last fifteen years knows
the name “Holt.” Probably none is more familiar to
Washington and Lee. Surely none is more admired.

Since 1917, “Holt” has meant leadership at W. and
L.. Four outstanding men have born the name. Each
was a leader. ‘Three were president of the student
body, and the other missed election to this office by the
narrowest margin. ‘Three were monogram men. Two
were members of Phi Beta Kappa All belonged to
Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity. All were
elected to social, professional’ and honorary fraternities
on the campus.

The first, H. A. “Rocky” Holt, received his LL. B.
degree in 1918. He was a member of the Phi Kappa
Psi social fraternity; Phi Beta Kappa; Omicron Delta
Kappa; Phi Delta Phi, legal fraternity ; Cotillion Club,
and “13” Club. He won a monogram playing base-
ball, and was in his last year elected president of the
student body. His home was in Lewisburg, W. Va.
During the war he served as a second lieutenant, and
in 1923-24-25 was professor of law here.

One year after Rocky was graduated, another
Holt came along. He was W. K., known as Bill, and
was no relation to Rocky. He stayed at W. and L.
four years, and almost duplicated Rocky's record. He
was a member of Alpha ‘lau Omega, Omicron Delta
Kappa, “13” Club, and Cotillion Club. He was presi-

I

MA G A a. M.S

dent of the student body in 1923, the year he was
graduated from the Commerce school. His home was
in Memphis, ‘Tenn. He earned a monogram in crew,
and served on the staffs of the Calyx and Ring-tum
Phi.

Before Bill left school, his younger brother, May-
nard, entered, duplicating the record of his brother be-
fore him, and that of the first of the Holts, Rocky.
He was a member of Alpha Tau Omega, Omicron Del-
ta Kappa, Alpha Kappa Psi, “13” Club, Cotillion Club,
and Pi Alpha Nn. He won monograms in football,
track, wrestling, and crew. In 1927 he was president
of the student body, and member of the executive com-
mittee. Maynard was graduated with a B.S. in 1927.

While Maynard was still in school, the most recent
of the Holts, Joe, came along, to do practically the same
things here that his namesakes had done before him.
He was a brother of Rocky, and a member of Phi
Kappa Psi, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Phi Delta Phi, Cotillion Club, Sigma, and the “11”
Club. In 1928 he was defeated by a narrow margin
for president of the student body.
he refused to run for the position, but fifty voted for
him despite the fact that his name was not among the
He received a B.S. in 1925, and an LL.B.

The following year

candidates.
in 1929.

Such is the record of the Holts at Washington and
Lee. If younger brothers or sons are yet to come, they
have a mark to shoot at.

 

Varsity quarterback.
bert Sidney crew in 1923.

versation.

ing the right plays at the right time.

went in it was always for the Generals’ good.

of the Huntington Publishing Company.

 

McVay Remembered for Speed

When “Johnny” McVay came to Washington and Lee in 1920,
from Huntington, West Virginia, he weighed less than 125 pounds.
Small as he was, he had already won his letter in football at Huntington
High School, playing in the backfield while still a 108-pounder.

Naturally, he was somewhat heavier in ’23 and ’24 when he made
But he was still small enough to be called ‘‘one
of the lightest men who ever pulled an oar,” when he rowed for the Al-

Johnny was as quiet as he was small, and just as reserved in con-
His social fraternity is Alpha ‘Tau Omega, and he belonged
to Sigma, “13” Club, Pi Alpha Nu, Cotillion Club, and Monogram Club.
He studied commerce, and received his B.S. degree in 1925.

Asa quarterback Johnny will be remembered for his ability in choos-
He was usually put into the game
after watching the opponent's attack from the sidelines, and when he
Through his speed John-
ny could carry the ball around the end with unusual success, and his
accurate passing and interference made him a valuable all-around man.

McVay is one of the most popular young men in Huntington, and is now in the advertising department
He always is on hand for Homecoming games and pays a visit
to Lexington every year. His brother “Joe” completed his fifth-year law at W. and L. this year.

 

 

 

[ 22 |

 

 

ot ee ae oN

T H E

—eaaaEeo™

I

M A @ A 2 tt See

Sigma Chi to Have New Home

ONSTRUCTION of the new $22,000 home
for the Sigma Chi fraternity will be begun as
soon as contracts can be let.

The house will be constructed on the same lot
which was formerly occupied by the fraternity and
which has held as a fraternal home ever since the fra-
ternities of the institution were allowed private homes.
The old Sigma Chi house was the oldest house on the
campus. It had been one of the oldest landmarks
around town before its career as a home. Originally
it was the warehouse of a wholesale feed company,
and then it became a residence. The first fraternity
to occupy it was
the S. A. E.’s who
used it as one of
the first houses in
Lexington to be oc-
cupied by a frater-
nal body.

‘The house was
bought from the
Graham estate in
1922 and has been
used by the Sigma
Chi’s ever since
that time. Plans
for a new home
were being formu-
ulated even before
the fire which com-
pletely destroyed it
during the Easter

  

The estimated cost of the plant will be $22,000.
The lot is the property of the fraternity and is worth
$6000. $7000 is already on hand in the fraternity
treasury for the house fund. The plan is to borrow
$10,000 from the University, and the remaining $8,000
from the alumni.

Contracts have not yet been given for the actual
construction work but it is thought that work will be
begun sometime during the summer.

When the Sigma Chi house is completed it will be
the seventh new house to be constructed by social fra-
ternities here. ‘The Phi Kappa Sigma and Beta Theta
Pi houses on Jef-
ferson street, across
from the campus,
were the first ones
built. In the last
two years, the Sig-
ma Nu, Phi Delta
Theta, and Pi Kap-
pa Alpha fraterni-
ties have all built
on university
ground opposite the
Memorial Gateway.

The fraternity
house development
there has made an
attractive addition
to the university,
but because of the

 

holidays.
The new home

6 ee ee limited amount of

HARTER-OF: 3S 1GMA*G land left, it is
— LEXINGTON: VI&GPATR

— aby ebb eee doubtful whether

 

will stand on the
same historic site, but instead of facing Washington
Street as it formerly did it will be faced on Lee Avenue.

The home will strike a new note in design among
the newer buildings in that it is to be much smaller
than the average new fraternity. It is designed to ac-
commodate sixteen men and a matron. ‘The general
architectural design will be colonial as far as can be
carried out on a small scale.

Several distinctive features are being used in its
construction. The dining room, kitchen and chapter-
lounge room will be in a half basement and toward the
rear. The living room, library and large porch will
be above these rooms and the sleeping quarters of the
boys will be on the second floor. Every bedroom will
be so arranged as to make it a corner room with two
large windows. Above this there will be a half story
containing two very large rooms.

 

another house will

be built there.
Alpha Tau Omega recently built a new home on

South Main Street. This house is one of the out-
standing ones in Lexington. It is situated far back
on a large lot and is most imposing.

With the repairing of the old Kappa Sigma house
completed, they have not made any definite announce-
ment as to their plans for the future.

When any more fraternity houses are built they
will probably be located in Davidson Park. ‘This land
offers unlimited possibilities for building and land-
scaping plans. The landscaping which was carried
on at Fraternity Row was most successful this year
and has been the subject of much favorable comment
both by alumni and visitors during Finals. The Delta
Upsilon and Kappa Alpha fraternities have improved
their houses this year.

[ 23 ]

_ ae AS ee Ra

“EXAM BATTLE” IS EXCITING

Alumni who returned to Washington and Lee for
Finals arrived just as one of the most bitter collegiate
contest comes to a Namely, The Students
On the side of The Students
were approximately nine hundred young men_ picked
from the finest of American manhood.

close.
vs. The Examinations.

Kepresenting
the Examinations were about fifty-five of the most ef-
ficient professors that can be found anywhere in the
United States.

The contest was officially called on Tuesday, May
26, by Dean Harry D. Campbell and a few other ad-
ministrative officers of Washington and Lee University.

The professors immediately took the offensive by
handing The Students some well drawn-out quizzes on
courses that come at the “D” hour. Although a few
members of The Student aggregation showed weakness
in places, it seems as though The Students scored a
few points as a result of this attack.

At twelve-thirty on ‘Tuesday a rest period was

I

Mm 6 Gu. 2 ae. re:

called and no more “blows” were struck until eight-
thirty the next day when the professors again made an

attack on The Students. This time they commenced

by giving questions on courses that come at the —_.
hour. Again ‘The Students, armed with pens, pen-
cile, and tablets, showed a strong defensive.

This method of play was used until the contest
came to an end on Friday, June 5. Both sides show-
ed that they were doing everything within their power
to win. Especially was this true with The Students.
who had been preparing for this contest since the
end of the first semester.

The final score was not known until a few weeks
later when the professors turned in the grades of the
students to the Registrar. At that time, however, it
became known that the Students had won by a large
margin.

This contest takes place twice a year at Wash-
ington and Lee, between these same two opponents,
and on the whole creates more excitement than any

other contest that plays here during the year.

 

Academies.
1930.
honors “Bark” was left with a Phi Beta Kappa key.

to solve problems by the short cut method.

it. He knew his mathematics.

ravine.

water for the “proposed” lake. ‘“‘Bark’’ designed a

dam to hold back the waters of Wood’s creek, and

ming the creek for the lake and park developement,

laboratory.

 

Engineer “Bark”

D. Barker Cook came to W. and L. from Trenton,
Jersey, in 1927, after attending Georgetown and_ Blair

“Bark” studied civil engineering, getting his B.S. in
He was the kind of student who always seemed to be
“just sitting around,” but when it came time to hand out the

In the engineering school he was known for his ability
Cook couldn't
remember formulas, said it was unnecessary, and when a
problem came up he figured out his own method of solving

For the senior thesis, Cook and John Mosch, another
engineer, made a survey of Wood’s creek and the ravine be-
hind the campus, drawing and designing the plans for a
concrete dam, lake, and park-land to be constructed in the
The surveying and design of this thesis project
were begun in early spring, and Cook and Mosch were often
seen with muddy boots and jackets down in the stream of the
ravine, building the weir-dam by which was estimated flow of
concrete
a layout
of grading and contours for construction of a dam 25 feet high which was to serve the purpose of dam-
and of operating a small power plant.
member of Custis Lee Engineering Society, its president during his last year, and a member of the Ameri-
can Society of Civil Engineers. During his Senior year he was also instructor in the civil engineering

Since graduation he has been teaching at Villanova College in the civil engineering and physics de-
partments. He was married, after leaving school, to the former Miss Beatrice Mather, of Trenton, and
is now living at Ardmore, Pa., with Mrs. Cook and a recent addition to the family, DeWitt Clinton Cook, II.

Cook Teaches

New

 

Cook was a

 

 

[ 24 |

Pe ae ee ee oe

Mw A ‘GG “A. <2. ee eee

 

Help Us Find These Lost Alumni

 

pee |OST, strayed or stolen, over three hundred

| Jalumni! ‘The following men are on the rec-
= jords of the Alumni Headquarters as being un-
located. The office has the last address which the
men sent in, but they have been unable to get anything

  

 

 

 

further about them.

The list of “missing men” follows. It is very
important to the Alumni Headquarters to have data on
these men, so that they can keep in touch with them.
lf anyone knows anything about any of these men,
where they are or what they are doing, or even a later
address than the one given below, the Alumni Secretary
asks that he send in the information he has.

The Alumni Secretary, by himself, can do nothing
to locate these men. It is impossible to trace down each
and every one of three hundred. But it should be very
easy to find someone, through the medium of the Al-
umni Magazine, who can tell something about each of
them.

Please, if you know anything about them, help us
find our lost alumni!

UNLOCATED ALUMNI

Joseph E. Acker, 114 City Hall, Atlanta, Ga.

Charles Cater Adams, 91, Andalusia, Ala.

Kleazer Tarrant Adams, Jr., "94, Kingswood College,
Kingswood, Ky.

Jesse Blake Adams, ’11, Hill Bldg, Washington, D. C.

Lawrence Smith Adams, °12, White Springs, Fla.

Samuel Joseph Adams, ’23, 2621 Stuart Ave., Rich-
mond, Va.

William Dickson Adams, Jr., 93, Prescott, Arizona.

Melvin James Adamson, ’25, 1660 Stant St., Denver,
Colorado.

Marcus A. Aderhold, ’72, Lincolnton, N. C.

Hartwell Stansbury Adkins, 09, 114 N. Patrick St.,
Alexandria, Va.

Frank Albert, ’70, Pasadena, Calif.

Arthur Wadley Albertson, *10, Douglas, Ga.

John H. Alcamo, 1225 Springfield Ave., Irvington,
N. J.

Blair Grigsby Aldridge, *12, Arcola, Miss.

Kugene W. Alexander, ’22, 40 S. Rembert St., Mem-
phis, Tenn.

Percy Alexander, "92, 4241 Hooker St., Denver, Col.

James Edward Allen, ’77, Norfolk, Va.

Joel Isham Allen, Reedy Creek, S. C.

Richard Henry Allen, ’73, 354 Stonewall Place, Mem-
phis, Tenn.

George William Allison, ’10, 689 Clove Road, S.I., N.Y.

Robert Brockenbrough Allport, ’04, 1614 W. Grace
St., Richmond, Va.

Eldon Andrew Amick, ’20, Medical College of Vir-
ginia, Richmond, Va.

Kdward S. Anderson, ’20, 1527 Grove Ave., Richmond,
Virginia.

James Leslie Anderson, ’05, Lancaster, Pa.

Dr. John Robert Arbogast, *16, Winchester, Ky.

Rev. Thos. S. Armentrout, 04, Route No. 1, Wilming-
ton, Del.

G. G. Armstrong, *18, Roswell, New Mexico.

Geo. Price Arnold, ’14, care Virginian Pilot, Norfolk,
Virginia.

Jesse Garfield Arnold, °10, Chamber of Commerce,
Portland, Oregon.

John Knox Arnold, Federal ‘Trade Commission, Wash-
ington, D. C.

John Bartley Arrowood, ’16, Candor, N. C.

William Richardson Ashby, ’85, 2721 Parkwood Ave..,
Baltimore, Md.

Lawrence Ashcraft, ’23, Wheeling, W. Virginia.

ee Ashley, 12, 9 Blum Building, 117 W. Forsyth St.,
Jacksonville, Fla.

Alexander $. Auerbach, ’12, Savran, Russia.

Samuel B. Avis, 2701 Conn. Ave., Washington, D. C.

Harry Reiss Axelroth, 416 Walnut St., Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Percy Davis Ayres, Stein Bros. & Boyce, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Robert Bruce Ayres, 12, Broker, 4504 Chestnut Ave.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

John L. Baber, 640 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

John Knox Bacon, ’87, 606 N. 5th St., St. Joseph, Mo.

Ira Philip Baer, 04, Logan, W. Va.

Ethelbert Baier, 90, Houston, Texas.

Alfred Bailey, ’27, 2531 St. Johns Ave., Jacksonville,
Florida.

Gervais Baillio, "98, care Dill & Collins Co., Philadel-
phia, Pa.

John Franklin Bain, ’21, Capton, Va.

Herbert M. Baker, ’25, 508 W. Jefferson St., Louis-
ville, Ky.

Samuel Higinbotham Baker, 1631 Spruce St., Phila-
delphia, Pa.

Walter Baker, ’21, Central Bank Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

Wm. Wright Baldwin, 06, Bunker Hill, W. Va.

Byron LeRoy Ballard, 12, Lawyer, Dallas, Texas.

Edward Barnsford Ballou, ’20, 216 West 72nd St.
New York City, N. Y.

[ 25 ]

T Ao ee ee

James Edward Bane, ’27, 3708 Springdale Ave., For-
est Park, Baltimore, Md.

F. Marion Banks, ’72, 715 W. 24th St., Austin, Texas.

Percy Leech Banks, 93, Crewe, Va.

Johnson Lee Bankson, ’93, 3711 Conn. Ave., St. Louis,
Missouri.

Hugh Barclay, ’12, Texas City, ‘Texas.

Wm. Francis Barnard, °12, 7511 Bennett St., Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

David Meade Barner, °12, Norfolk, Va.

John Thompson Barnes, 91, Va. Bridge & Iron Co.,
Roanoke, Va.

James Holden Barnett, ’20, 1134 6th Ave., Huntington,
West Virginia.

Harold Goldsmith Barnwell, ’12, 695 Piedmont Ave.,
Atlanta, Ga.

Horace M. Barrett, 93, care American Bolt Co., Bir-
mingham, Ala.

Armstrong Barrow, ’09, 2nd and Jackson Sts., Alex-
andria, La.

Paul Vincent Bartlett, ‘00, Lexington, Ky.

Dr. John Trockmorton Bate, ’21, 639 First 5t., Louis-
ville, Ky. .

Octavius Locke Bate, °79, Louisville, Ky.

Harvey G. Beall, ’28, 702 Gladston Ave., Baltimore,
Maryland.

Albert J. Beauregard, ’02, Frankfort Station, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

Noll Russell Beddow, ‘09, 913 Evans St., Pueblo, Colo.

John Raymond Bedford, ’11, El Paso, Texas.

Maurice Bejack, ’11, Jemks, Okla.

Norman Delos Belgin, 12, Elkins, W. Va.

Harry Thomas Bell, ‘90, 12 St., Paul Place, Atlanta,
Georgia.

Dr. John H. Bell, ’03, Filbert, W. Va.

Albert IE. Bellingham, 222 ‘Twin Oaks Road, Akron,
Ohio. 3

Arthur Luther Bennett, °106,
bridge, Mass.

Allie Raymond Bennett, R. F. D., No. 3, Winston-Sa-
lem, N.C.

Jas. ‘Topham Bernheim, '26, care Florida Power &
Light Co., Sarasota, Fla.

Chas. Gamble Berry, ’23, 410 Webster Ave., Ports-
mouth, Va.

James Ashley Berry, ’99, Marlington, W. Va.

Robert Lee Berryman, ’20, Shreveport, La.

Malcom W. Bethea, ’11, Dallas, Texas.

Norman A. Bie, 14, 211 Stovall Bldg., Tampa, Fla.

Robert Doran Blackburn, ’22, Memphis, Tenn.

E. R. Blair, 12, 805 Central Bk. Bldg., Mem his, Tenn.

R. Frank Blair, 90, Tulsa, Okla.

Robert M. Blankenship, ’16, 510 Franklin St., Rich-
mond, Va.

Isaac Pipkin Bledsoe, ’72, Chouteau, Okla.

John Cromwell Blocker, Jr., ’20, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Sacramento St., Cam-

I

Mee G Awe 2: ee

Dashwood ‘Tudor Bold, ’21, 187 12th St., Columbus, O.

Wm. O. Bonnie, ’98, Louisville, Ky.

Wm. Robinson Bonnycastle, ’93, Louisville, Ky.

Horace Booth, Jr., 11, Oklahoma.

Bernard F. Borchardt, 09, Iloilo, Island of Panay, P. I.

Julian M. Bossieux, ‘91, Richmond, Va.

Floyd Eugene Boston, ’94, Corsicana, Texas.

Joseph Frazer Bosworth, Jr., ’11, Bosworth, Ky.

Reuben Porter Bowden, ’20, Vermillion, 5. D.

Nicholas Floyd Bowman, ’14, 802 Cathedral St., Bal-
timore, Md.

John Victor Bowser, ’27, Wampum, Pa.

Rev. B. M. Boyd, 716, Abingdon, Va.

Edwin ‘Thurman Boyd, ’15, 301 5th St., Lynchburg, Va.

E. D. Bozeman, ’21, Memphis, Tenn.

C. H. C. Braden, ’23, Harvard Univ., Cambridge.

Ralph Lewis Bragg, '13, 218 Texas St., Shreveport, La.

Arthur Taylor Bragonier, 12, Morgantown, W. Va.

George Murk Lee Brandon, ’15, Central Bank Bldg.,
Dallas, Texas.

Andrew Gordon Briggs, 05, Walnut Ridge, Ark.

Frank C. Bright, 93, Lewisburg, W. Va.

Ellis M. Bristow, °15, 3120 R St., Washington, D. C.

Herbert Britton, ‘00, 1005 13th St., N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

Benjamin James Broach, 19, Point Peter, Ga.

Geo. A. Brodie, ’75, Yeon Bldg., Portland, Oregon.

Francis Calvert Brooke, "10, Warrenton, Va.

John Clinton Brotemarkle, °16, Salisbury, Md.

Dennis Joseph Broughal, ’12, 3821 Prophet St., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

David Waller Brown, ’05, Arrington, Va.

Lawrence Walker Brown, ‘17, 115 Broadway,
York City, N. Y.

Norris Young Brown, '27, 372 EE. Main St., Spartan-
burg, S. C. |

Robert Allen Brown, 09, Chrome, N. J.

Robert Roswell Brown, ’09, Whitney Bldg., New Or-
leans, La.

Theo. Ralph Brown, ’20, formerly in U. 5. Army.

Welbourn Myers Brown, '27, 372 EK. Main St., Spar-
tanburg, S. C.

Prof. Wm. Prentiss Brown, °92, Tulane University,
New Orleans, La.

William Robert Brown, Fort Valley, Ga.

Hugh Cook Browne, ’91, 926 Market St., Wilming-
ton, Del.

Andrew Johnson Browning, ’05, Riverdale, Md.

Edwin Caldwell Bruton, ’22, Plant City, Fla.

Ferdinand Van Bruyssel, New Orleans, La.

Nathan Philemon Bryan, ’95, Federal Bldg., Jackson-
ville, Fla.

Wm. Edward Bryan, ’04, Wachula, Fla.

Richmond Bryant, ’09, Bowie, Md.

Roy Bryant, ’16, 55 Wall St., New York City, N. Y.

Continued on page 45

New

[ 26 ]

tT. os A. eee. ae

I

Mw A G A. 2 ie

 

BOWERS SPEAKS ON LEE

Speaking at the centennial anniversary celebration
of the University of Alabama May 11, Claude G. Bow-
ers, of the New York Evening Journal, paid tribute to
Robert EK. Lee and his part in the field of education.
Dr. George H. Denny, president of the University of
Alabama and former President of Washington and
l.ee, was another principal speaker.

After depicting the history of Alabama, Bowers
praised Robert I. Lee for the part he played after the
Civil War when he accepted the presidency of this Uni-
versity at the sacrifice of financial betterment.

“To those among us who are prone to minimize
the importance of the school and teacher, I would recall
the picture of a man who will live forever in the South-
ern heart. It is the picture from the life story of one
of the noblest figures in the world’s possession of the
When the great struggle of the sections
came we saw him turning away from the serenity of

truly great.

Arlington to lead with a genius unsurpassed in the mili-
tary annals of mankind, one of the bravest armies that
We

see an entire world standing at salute before his gen-

ever followed a commander to the field of battle.

ius, marvelling at the inherent greatness of a man, who,
facing overwhelming odds, is leading a dwindling army
fighting literally in rags and on meager rations, against
fate.
aster, in the calm dignity of his decorum, the incompar-
able soldier merging into the incomparable gentleman

We see him looming greater in the hour of dis-

and patriot. Dispossessed of the broad acres that once
were his, and reduced to poverty, we see him gently but
firmly putting aside the offer of an estate in England,
made as a tribute to his surpassing qualities of soul.

“And then we see this luminous figure, already one
of the world’s immortals, beloved by millions and ad-
mired by all mankind, poring over the invitation to the
presidency of a university.

“THe does not pause because the institution is small
and comparatively obscure. He does not hesitate be-
cause an acceptance would mean a meager salary, when
in the field of commerce or finance, he could command
He does not pause in fear of
lowering his high prestige, or with the feeling that the
position is beneath his great capacity.

one infinitely greater.

“No, he paused in doubt because he was not quite
sure that he was worthy of the high honor; because he
wondered if he dare assume the heavy responsibility of
training youth. No one had doubted his ability to com-
mand an army on the field of battle, but in the presence

of a summons to lead the youth of a stricken region out
of the valley of shadows, he stood appalled.

“We hear him express his doubts to his minister
and to give utterance to his lofty concept of the nobility
and responsibility of the teacher and, finally accept with
a touching humility.

[ 27 ]

“When Robert E. Lee rode Old Traveller over the
dusty roads into lexington that autumn day, he had
enlisted in a cause that was to mean more to his people
than his shining sword that had lighted their sons to
glory. Tor there he helped make men the kind of men
who have led the Southland to its present glowing
renaissance. And there quite properly he sleeps on the
scene of his greatest service, the recumbent figure on the
monument like the man, facing always toward the stars.

“If in any section of the South some demagogue
of narrow vision complains of the cost of the schools
and of teachers, shame him into silence by telling him
the epic story of Lee.”

 

LEIBOWITZ WINS PRESS AWARD

A. J. (“Mike”) Leibowitz was this year awarded
the Sigma Delta Chi Gold Key for highest scholarship
in journalism during his first three years at Washington
and Lee. ‘The key is presented annually to the mem-
ber of Sigma Delta Chi, national professional jour-
nalistic fraternity, who excells in journalism at the Uni-
versity.

Leibowitz has been active on virtually every cam-
pus publication since his freshman year. He won the
English department scholarship in his Junior year, the
Journalism department scholarship this year, and has
been connected with the Publicity bureau of the Uni-
versity for the last two years.

Leibowitz besides being one of the best known
students on the campus is almost as equally well known
He is from Yon-
kers, N. Y., and receives his A.B. degree with a certi-
ficate in Journalism this Finals.

among the alumni of the University.

 

SAM R. HALL RECEIVES FELLOWSHIP

Sam R. Hall, A.B. °27, now an assistant in the
School of ‘Tropical Medicine at Harvard University,
has received a fellowship from the National Research
Council to continue some important investigations he
is making.

Dr. Hall went from Washington and lee to Vir-
ginia on the Blandy scholarship there completing his
work for his Ph.D. degree in the summer of 1930.

Four Washington and Lee alumni, two Republi-
cans and two Democrats, are running against each
other for public office in Charleston, W. Va., in 1931
elections.

William W. Donnally, °25, Democratic nominee
for Municipal Judge, opposes D. Boone Dawson, ’21,
Republican.

James K. Thomas, ’26, one of the Democratic
nominees for Councilmen at Large, is running against
Joe L. Silverstein, a Republican nominee.

oe as a 2 2 2 WN

MANY ALUMNI REGISTER

The register at the Alumni Building received more
than the usual number of names of returning alumni
during the 1931 Finals Week. Unfortunately, many
of the alumni who returned to Lexington for com-
mencement failed to register, and the list of former
students in town is therefore incomplete.

The names of those who registered follow:

Roy G. Nichols, ’27; Donald G. Grimley, ’23; John
Lovejoy Comegys, ’28; O. Norris Smith, ‘29; John H.
Astin, ’°30; Wm. T. Knight, ’28; J. M. Nail, ’24; T.
3. Bryant, 28; Shuford R. Nichols, 30; W. H. Maish,
"30; P. R. Jamison, Jr., °28; Herbert W. Virgin, Jr..
‘25; Daniel Shelby, 30; John R. Lynch, Jr., 30; Euc
Reeves, ’27.

T. L. Bauer, ’°29; John S. Ragland, ’29; John L.
Jennings, Jr., 30; Robert W. Davis, ’30; Paul O. Whit-
field, 24; E.. Lee Gamble, °29; Robert F. Mackle, °30;
Wm. A. Williamson, ’30; A. R. Parker, Jr., °28; Rob-
ert Elias, ’29; E. P. Bledsoe, Jr., 30; E. J. Mackle, ’29;
I. Ballou Bagby, ’29; David H. Wice, ’27; Julius Gold-
stein, ‘28; C. B. Litz, ’31; Edward Felsenthal, ’26:
Thomas P. Wright, 30; J. H. Osterman, ’28; James G.
Watson, '29; C. Leigh Riley, °29; Leonard C. Borland,
30; I. L. Flory, Jr., ’30; Alex W. Mosby, Jr., ’23; C.
H. Hinson, ’27; FE. B. Rannels, °30 Jack C. Chapman,
‘26; Howard W. Gwathney, ’29.

W. B. Harbeson, °30; T. M. Belsen, °30; W. H.
Wilcox, '29; Penrose Rolfo, °31; Joe Rucker, ’28; H.
J. Tardy, ‘24; M. L. Ridenour, ’26; C. I. Simmons,
‘29; W. G. Tarrant, Jr., °30; J. D. Jameson, ’30; Rich-
ard M. Coe, ’30; Al Ament, ‘26; Shirley Riley, °16.

Kenneth M. Stone, ’32; F. Gordon Hudgins, °25 ;
P. Williams, Jr., ’°30; Edwin B. Wiicox, *30; R. W.
Collier, 30; C. E. Lischer, ’23; K. C. Kimbrough, ’26;
R. B. Campbell, ’24; John F. Edmondson, '30; Harold
EK. Slanker, ’°30; G. I. Grashorn, ’30; R. E. Morris,
‘29; Jack E. Wilson, ’29; Geo. E. Burks, ’27; Thos. A.
Wilkins, ‘28; Thomas F. Torrey, ’28; J. L. Sims, ’29;
Burton C. Rawlons, ’30; Tom C. Atwood, ’30; J. M.
Sherwood, °30; John Sharshall Grasty, ’29; A. R.
Coleman, ’27; J. H. Black, °30; W. A. MacDonough,
‘29: Simon Wender, ’30; John W. White, 23; R. C.
White, ‘28; R. H. Thatcher, ’26; E. W. MacCorkie, Jr.,
‘26; W. S. Forrester, ’82; James J. Steinheimer, ’28.

Edwin C. Caffrey, 09; D. B. Brown, 12; C. Hagan
Minnich, ’24; M. E. Withers, ’23; Walter MacDonald,
‘10; Roger M. Bear, ’14; Gale B. Haley, ’29; Ed. G.
Woodson, ’24; Frank Moore, 96; J. P. Moore, °27;
W. B. Jacobs, ’29; Donald G. Kaylor, ’25; Warren E.
Tilson, 26; M. N. Avrack, ’27; C. C. Hutchinson, Jr.,
29; J. N. Lowden, ’29.

J. M. Darden, J. H. Thomas, W. W. Welsh, W. T.
Daniel, 08; K. L. Meyer, ’12; J. B. Merrick, ’27;: J.
W. McCown, ’20; Jas. R. Caskie, 09; Robert Ewing,
68; H. D. Campbell, ’°82; W. O. Burtner, ’21; R. N.

I

ee a RR ae a ee ae
Latture, ’15; L. J. Desha, 06; B. F. Harlow, 96; J.
lL, Campbell, 09; Clayton FE. Williams, 12; W. A.
Raftery 15; Earl W. Bibb, ’24; John A. Graham, ’14;
Francis P. Gaines; Chas. A. Glasgow, ’09; Stuart
Moore, ’21; L. W. Smith, 96; FE. S. Mattingly, ’20;
A. G. Lively, 12; I. M. Quillen, ’24; Paul M. Penick,
‘06; Earl K. Paxton, 08; A. M. Rutan, ’00.

Leo Weinberg, ‘06; Wm. McC. Martin, ’95; Geo.
Solling Lee, "93; S. Mercer Graham, 19; Sam’'l H.
Chester, 72; J. Preston Davis, ’30; R. E. Gooch, ’30;
J. Morrison Hutcheson, 02; Hunter MacDonald, ’79;
L.. W. Irwin, ’87; J. Frank Key, ’12; M. R. Bruin, Jr.,
'25; S. C. Harrison, ’29; Robert D. Powers, Jr., ’29;
James Veech, "94; R. W. Cabell, ’20; Maurice Moore,
‘04; FE. I. Bostwick; Charles P. Hanger, Jr., 18; John
H. Dawson, ’25; Harry A. Dawson, ’27; Roby K.
Sutherland, 30; Rowland H. Walker, Jr., “30; M. D.
Campbell, 05; W. T. Muntford, ’29; Leonard H. Davis,
"30; Dan W. Lindsey, *30.

Wilton M. Garrison, ’28; Henry L. Dowling, ’28;
W. C. McCarty, ’28; Jas. I. Huston, Jr., °27; Franklin
Poore Johnston, ’°29; Laurence C. Witten, 10; Church-
ill Mellen, ’28; Robert Martin, °27; David Jones; D.
B. Taylor, °31; D. C. Hopkins, ’27; John L. Goodloe,
Jr., °29; R. J. Haller, ’28; Reed Graves, ’24; John R.
Caskie, ’25; C. M. Gwaltmey, ’27.

Harry Clemmer, ’26; Curry Porter; Chas. A. Stra-
horn, ’28; John S. Strahorn, ’°25; Wm. B. Hill, ’29;
Jas. M. Hoke, ’25; Herbert Fitzpatrick, "93; Jake
Fisher, "93; H. T. Wickham, ‘68; Geo. W. St. Clair,
00; S. H. Williams, ’14; H. St. G. T. Carmichael, ’02 ;
Chas. E. Burks, 10; C. Lynch Christian, °16; Robert
D. Ransey, 14; Ben P. Ainsworth, ’11; Rudolph Bum-
gardner, "92; Louis S. Epes, ‘08; Warren C. Brown,
14; Allen Morgan, ’29; Fanning Hearon, ’25; 5.
W. Frierson, ’00.

A. S. Cummings, ’14; Rev. Hervey McDowell,
91; Robert K. Williams, 13; L. M. Brannon, ’24; M.
E. Padgett, Jr., °30; E. Thurman Boyd, °15; David E.
Strain, ’°30; Robert S. Bacon, ’*29; J. L. Lockett, Jr.,
30; E. M. Hamilton, ’29; E. S. Clark, Jr., 28; Mitchell
Porter Ellis, 30; Hunter H. Hancock, ’25; Robert
I. Goodrich, ’25; M. I. Hickman, ’29; R. D. Maben,
Jr., °27; E. A. Fitzpatrick, ’29; A. Lee Smith, ’24; H.
E. Mayhew, ’14; G. D. Conrad, ’27; J. Reese Carter,
'27: W. E. Moore, ’25; F. R. Loth, ’20; Henry C. Tig-
nor, ’23; C. S. McNulty, ’02.

W. T. Spencer, ’21; H. E. Bemis; E. F. Garber,
’21; Geo. Taliaferro; W. C. Mulligan, ’31; E. M.
Wood, ’30; John Little, 30; C. W. Meadows, ’27.

 

John Ewell May, LL.B., ’23, died at his home in
Little Rock, Ark., during the month of March, 1931.

 

Mr. John Blackmar, ’71, died at his home in Co-
lumbus, Ga., March 25, 1931.

[ 28 ]

 

 

 

= H 5&5 * eee ae. I, ee

PROF. MAPEL LEAVES FOR YEAR

(Editor’s Note.—An article similar to the one be-
low was “killed” by Prof. Mapel several weeks ago.
The present article could only be put in type without
his knowledge.—H. K. Y.)

Washington and Lee will temporarily lose one of
its most loyal and hard-working faculty members next
vear when William L. Mapel, director of the Depart-
ment of Journalism, takes a year’s leave of absence
to become one of the editors of the American Boy
magazine, with offices in Detroit, Mich.

Since coming here in 1928, Professor Mapel has
taken active part in all phases of university life and is
known to alumni almost as well as to the undergraduate
body.

A summary of Mr. Mapel’s activities during his
stay here would represent, in a sense, the history of
many phases of university life. On the academic side,
Mr. Mapel was personally responsible for the reor-
ganization of the Journalism curriculum this year to
provide for greater usefulness and more thorough cul-
tural training for students in the department. As a
result of his efforts, journalism at Washington and
lee was this year rated as Class A in the American
Association of Schools and Departments of Journalism,
this university being the only one south of Pennsylvania
and east of Louisiana having that honor.

Mr. Mapel also organized and directed the first
Southern [ditorial Institute, a conference on the press
held in Lexington last January and attended by approx-
imately two hundred newspapermen of the South.
Since the departure of Prof. Roscoe B. Ellard, former
head of the Department of Journalism, Mr. Mapel has
also been the guiding spirit of the Southern Inter-
scholastic Press Association, an organization of high
school and prep school journalists which holds a con-
vention on the Washington and Lee campus each fall.

As director of the printing laboratory of the De-
partment of Journalism, Mr. Mapel has contributed
generously of his time and energy in bringing out uni-
versity publications. One of his enthusiasms was the
Alumni Magazine, to which he has devoted days of la-
bor without public acknowledgment.

Mr. Mapel has also given conspicuous service to
the athletic department as director of tournaments and
contest official. specially valuable were his services
as starter and referee at Washington and Lee track
meets.

As director of university publicity, Mr. Mapel was
instrumental in obtaining the publication of hundreds
of thousands of words of Washington and Lee news
in newspapers all over the South, East, and Middle
West. Although assisted by two student writers, Mr.
Mapel wrote scores of publicity stories, particularly
of the “spot news” type.

I

m De DB 2 2 ee

Other activities are literally too numerous to men-
tion. He was largely responsible for the establishment
of Sigma Delta Chi, honorary and professional journal-
ism fraternity, on this campus, and always took an ac-
tive part in its affairs. He was business manager of
the university band. He was prominent in local dra-
matics. Virtually every enterprise advancing the in-
terests of Washington and Lee university won his sup-
port and cooperation.

During this summer Prof. Mapel is assisting the
administration in preparing for the McCormick Cen-
tennial to be held at Washington and Lee shortly after
the opening of school in the fall.

He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
and is a graduate of the University of Missouri.

 

LAFFOON NAMED FOR GOVERNOR

Judge Rudy Laffoon, ’89, is Democratic nominee
for governor of the state of Kentucky.

3orn in Hopkins County, Kentucky, January 15,
1869, the son of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Laffoon, Judge
Laffoon attended
Hopkins County
schools and was grad-
uated from Washing-
ton and Lee Universi-
ty. After graduation
he began the practice
of law in Madisonville
and became one of the
leaders in the profes-
He was County
Assessor for four
years and State Insur-
ance Commissioner
for several years.

In his first race
for a state office, that
of Treasurer, Judge
Laffoon was defeated
by a small plurality. Four years later he was nominat-
ed for Auditor and again was defeated. He was elect-
ed Circuit Judge of the Fourth Judicial District, de-
feating Carl Henderson, Marion, the Republican in-
cumbent. When his six-year term expired he was
renominated by both the Democratic and Republican
He is now serving the third

sion.

 

parties for another term.
vear of the second term.

~

xcept for brief residence in Frankfort, Kentucky,
and Texas, Judge Laffoon has lived in Hopkins County.
He has been a Democratic leader in county, district and
state politics. He is married and has three children,
Mrs. C. H. Body, Mrs. Wm. Robinson, and Miss Leila
Laffoon.

[| 29 |

oe: SS Ate A A IN

I

Ue & fee a oe

 

Eight Records Fall in State Meet

 

=| IGHT Big-Four track records were shattered
|}on Wilson Field May 9 when the varsity
, teams of Washington and Lee, Virginia, V.
P. L., and V. M. I. met for their third annual quadran-
gular meet. A well balanced team that took its share
of seconds and thirds when it was unable to win an
event, managed to score 65 1-3 points to win for Vir-
ginia. Washington and Lee finished second with 53
11-12; V. M. I. third with 25 3-4; and V. P. I. fourth
with 19.

Run concurrently with the varsity events, the
freshman races also resulted in close scoring with the
broad jump, the final event of the afternoon, proving
the margin of victory for the Virginia frosh. The Cav-
aliers won the freshman division with 57 points ; Wash-
ington and Lee second with 53; V. M. I. third with
25 1-2; and V. P. I. fourth with 17 1-2.

It was in the high hurdles, quarter mile, and mile
relay where the General runners proved the masters
of the meet. ‘Stepping over the high hurdles in 15.1,
Algy Speer, Big Blue timber topper ended his varsity
career by shaving off .3 of a second from the former
record held by Flippin of Virginia. Speer, Southern
Conference indoor hurdle champion in his specialty,

 

 

 

 

went through the season undefeated to gain recogni-
tion as one of the South’s best in the high hurdles. Per-
haps no spectator at the meet was more pleased with
the record breaking performance of Speer than Coach
Forest Fletcher. In his sophomore year Speer report-
ed for track as a high jumper.
ocre in this event, Fletcher coached him for the tim-
bers to fill a gap in that department. ‘Though he had
never been over a hurdle before in his life without a

As he was only medi-

ladder, Speer trained diligently and his performance
in the Big Four meet was indicative that his potential
ability plus the coaching by Fletcher, former Notre
Dame hurdler and still holder of a national indoor hur-
dle record, was not in vain.

Another senior writing ‘‘finis” to his collegiate run-
ning career casiiy led the field in his event. Leigh
Williams won a first in the quarter mile for Washing-
ton and Lee by lowering the mark to 49.9. | The for-
mer record of 50.1 was established last year by Rein-
hart of V. P. I. Little did the spectators at that meet
know that this All-Southern athlete (picked by Les
Gage, sports editor of College Humor for the Hall of
Fame) had trained only six times for that meet. Wil-
liams also plays baseball and had little time to practice
for the cinder sport.

In the closing event of the afternoon and the fea-
ture race of the meet, the Blue and White’s record

breaking performance in the mile relay surprised even
the members of the winning quartet. Two of the mem-
bers, Sheppard, lead-off man, and Williams, running
anchor were running the final race of their life and
they easily led the field in their legs of the relay. Brod-
erick and Gladden, juniors, were the other two baton
passers. Coming into the home stretch with yards to
spare, Williams eased down to slowly stride through the
tape to set a new record at 3:26. Virginia Military In-
stitute held the former mark at 3 :27.4.

While the Fletcher-coached machine placed com-
paratively well in the other events, a clean sweep by the
opposing teams in the shot put and a lone fourth for
the Generals in the 2-mile run, mile, and shot put prov-
ed costly for the hosts.

Lowering the record in both sprints and taking a
tirst in the broad jump, Wisner, the Virginia one-man
track team gained individual scoring honors. — By clip-
ping off almost ten seconds from the mile run record,
Smith, V. M. L., furnished the most outstanding per-
formance of the afternoon.

Washington and Lee varsity sprinters will be men-
aced by a pair of sophomore thin clads next year if the
performance of two yearling runners in the sig Four
affair can be taken seriously. | Sawyers, W. and L.,
scampered away with the century in 10.1 while his
teammate Reasor, led the field in the 220 yard dash in
22.4.

Climaxing the freshman card the four Washing-
ington and Lee relay men, Band, Suter, Reasor, and
Hazel won the yearling relay crown in running the
mile in 3.33.8. Although this frosh aggregation did
not have as easy a time as the varsity in this event,
Hazel, anchor man, was furnished with a sufficient
lead on his lap to break the tape.

Record breaking performances among the Big
Blue freshmen seemed to be confined to the trial heats.
In the century Sawyers hot footed the distance in 10
flat in his trial, but in the finals he was clocked at 10.1.
Again in the high hurdles 2 somewhat similar occur-
ance happened. Almon, W. and L., breezed over the
barriers in his heat in 16.4 to chip .2 of a second from
the mark, but in the finals he bowed to Antrim of Vir-
ginia in 15.5. ‘The Wahoo’s performance in this event
lowered the record more than a second.

VARSITY SUMMARIES

100-yard dash. Won by Wisner, Virginia; Kd-
monds, W. and L,. second; Johnson, W. and I[,. third;
Coles, Virginia, fourth. Time, 9.9. (New record. )
220-yard dash. Won by Wisner, Virginia; Ed-

[ 30 |

 

 

=H ES A jb oe ee oe = A & MA 22 owe

monds, W. and L,. second; Johnson, W. and L,. third; third; Lampton, Virginia, fourth. Time 25 flat. (I¢quals

Phillips, V. M. I. fourth. ‘Time, 22 flat. (New rec- record. )

ord. ) 440-yard dash. Won by Williams, W. and L.;
120-yard high hurdles. Won by Speer, W. and Sheppard, W. and L., second; Romm, V. M. L., third;

1..: Dees, Virginia second; Bryan, Virginia third; F*‘in- Gatewood, V. M. I., fourth. Time 49.9. (New rec-

klestein, W. and L,., fourth. Time 15.1. (New rec- ord.)

ord. ) 880-yard run. Won by Cary, Virginia; Broder-
220-yard low hurdles. Won by Finklestein, W. ick, W. and L,. second; Romm, V. M. I., third; Lauck,

and I,.; Coles, Virginia second; Speer, W. and L. Virginia, fourth. ‘Time 2:00.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"STATE RECORD
RE a

ore — - ww

a = a yr = —
Tu Ju DS Os Wit BIS sn 1) Ma ivf mare Tine

Ma
ee oe Lane ne
ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

170 FEET

[ 31 |

 

ar 8 A? tm A. Sea

Mile run. Won by Smith, V. M. I.; Lauck, Vir-
ginia, second; Wise, V. M. I., third; Gladden, W. and
L., fourth. ‘Time 4:22.8. (New record.)

Two-mile run. Won by Holden, Virginia; Bond,
V. M. I., second; Smith, V. M. I., third; Mahler, W.
and I,., fourth. Time 9:58.06.

High jump. Tie for first between Mayo, Virgin-
ia, and Gibson, V. P. I., tie for third between Phillips,
V. M. I., and Rivers, Curtis, Cook, W. and L. Height,
5 feet 11 1-8 inches.

Broad jump. Won by Wisner, Virginia; Wil-
liams, W. and L., second; Stevens, W. and L., third;
Nelson, Virginia, fourth. feet.

Pole vault. Won by Turner, V. P. I.; tie for
second between Mayo and Moorman, Virginia; tie for
fourth between Sanders and Duncan, W. and L., and

Distance, 22

Wylie, Virginia. Height 12 feet 2 1-2 inches. (New
record. )
Discus. Won by Swart, V. P. I.; Bryant, Vir-

ginia, second; Motley, Virginia, third; Bailey, W. and
L., fourth. Distance 133 feet 1 inch.

Javelin. Won by Wright, V. M. I., Bailey, W.
and L,. second; Tompkins, Virginia, third; Fangboner,
W. and L,., fourth. Distance 172 feet 1 1-2 inches.

Shot put. Won by Swart, V. P. I.; Bryant, Vir-
ginia, second; Day, Virginia, third; Bentley, Virginia,
fourth. Distance 48 feet 1-2 inch. (New record.)

Mile relay. Won by Washington and Lee (Shep-
pard, Gladden, Broderick, Williams) ; Virginia, second ;
V. M. I., third. (New

record. )

Time 3 minutes 25 seconds.

FRESHMAN SUMMARIES

100-yard dash. Won by Sawyers, W. and L.;
Abramson, Virginia, second; Reasor, W. and L., third;
Hirstoff, Virginia, fourth. Time 10.1.
ord.)

220-yard dash.

ramson, Virginia, second; Hirstoff, Virginia,

(New rec-

Won by Reasor, W. and L.; Ab-
third;

I

Mw CG Aes oN ee

Sawyers, W. and L., fourth. Time 22.4. (New rec-
ord. )

120-yard high hurdles. Won by Antrim, Virgin-
ia: Almon, W. and L., second; Lyne, V. P. I., third;
Phelps, W. and L. fourth. Time 15.5. (New record. )

220-yard low hurdles. Won by Antrim, Virgin-
ia: Almon, W. and L,., second; Lyne, V. P. L., third;
Smith, V. M. I., fourth. ‘Time 26.4. (New record.)

440-yard dash. Won by Dudley, Virginia; Hazel,
W. and L.., second; Finlayson, V. M. I., third; Band,
W. and L.., fourth. Time 52.3. (New record.)

880-yard run. Won by Grimsley, V. P. 1; Wel-
ford, V. M. I., second; Turner, V. M. L., third; Melton,
V. M. I. fourth. Time 2.06.

Mile run. Won by Turner, V. M. I.; Burrus, V.
M. I., second; Neeley, W. and L.., third; Madden, W.
and I,., fourth. Time 4:42.7.

High jump. Won by Mosley, V. P.
second bewteen Newberry and Lubrecht, W. and L.;
and Tucker and MacDonald, Virginia. Height 5 feet

I.: tie for

5 inches.

Broad jump. Won by Abramson, Virginia; Saw-
yer, W. and L,., second ; Harrison, Virginia, third ; Ped-
igo, W. and L,., fourth. Distance 21 feet 5 1-4 inches.

Pole vault. Won by Laird, W. and L.; tie for
second between Stauffer, W. and L., and Turner, V.
P. I.: tie for fourth between MacDonald, V. M. I., and
Wilson, W. and L. Height, 10 feet 6 inches.

Shot put. Won by Coles, Virginia; Flock, Vir-
ginia, second; Rosenberg, W. and L.., third; Pechin,
Virginia, fourth. Distance 42 feet 4 inches. (New
record. )

Discus. Won by Coles, Virginia; Almon, W. and
L.. second; Kurtin, Virginia, third; Leary, V. M. I.
Distance 123 feet 5 1-2 inches.

Javelin. Won by Flock, Virginia; Smith, V. M.
[. second: Duke, V. M. I., third; Laird, W. and L,.,
Distance 158 feet 1 1-2 inches.

fourth.

fourth.

 

more.

 

Budnick’

nasium punching the bay or sparring.

While at Washington and Lee he played football, being on the fresh-
man team in ’22 and the varsity the rest of the time he was in school. He
was also on the freshman wrestling team and on the boxing team in 1925.

He was a member of the Athletic Council, 1925-26, of the Monogram
Club, and Phi Epsilon Pi social fraternity.

He is at present with the Veterans’ Bureau in Washington.

s Hobby is the Squared Circle
Merrel Ira Budnick boxed heavyweight while he was at Washington
and Lee and learned to love boxing. Since his graduation in 1926 his in-
terest has increased. His 200 pounds may be seen at the ringside at nearly
every fight held in or near Washington, where he now lives, or in Balti-
When there are no fights he may be frequently found in some gym-

 

 

 

[ 32 |

 

 

eo Pee a, * See a

,

I

we a ee a a oe oe

Faculty Loses Diamond Classic 4-5

N A baseball game which will go down in the
records of Washington and Lee as being the
closest of its kind ever staged the Varsity took
the Faculty into camp by a score of 5-4 to end the sea-
son properly.

Bolstered by additions from the athletic depart-
ment, the Faculty was able to place a combination on
the field which not only held its own but proceeded to
make the Varsity hustle to obtain the verdict. Com-
edy and errors injected themselves into the play as is
the case in any good Faculty-Varsity game, and the
crowd on hand to witness the downfall of their be-
loved professors was given satisfaction to the utmost
degree.

Arms which creaked and legs more accustomed to
walking were brought out of retirement by the faculty
with the hope of erasing the vision of last year’s %--
defeat, but even this incentive for a victory failed them.

Neither team was able to solve the starting pitchers
in the first inning, but with the second stanza came the
fire-works. An orgy of hits, walks, and errors allow-
ed the varsity to count five runs which later proved to
be the ball-game.

The third inning saw the sun begin to shine on the
Faculty and as a result they managed to get Watkins,
their chubby catcher and biology professor on first by
virtue of a walk. Here his mates failed him and he
died on the initial bag.

Encouraged by their having gotten a man on base
in the previous inning the Faculty started in the fourth
to whittle away at the lead held by the regulars. With
two men out Ellerman, basketball coach and center-
fielder hit to Cremin who overthrew to first thus allow-
ing the runner to advance to second. Captain Dick
Smith picked this as the time to show the gathering
that he could practice what he taught and his scorching
double to center brought-in Ellerman with the first run.

A rap to Routon by “Cy” Twombly resulted in
an error, and when the Varsity shortstop threw the ball
into the stand in trying to catch Smith off third another
run scored. Here the brakes were applied and the
side retired.

Mattox, hard hitting catcher for the Varsity,
Started the fifth by crossing up the opposition with a
Swinging bunt down the first base line, but he failed to
remember that the professors had‘no other than “Skin-
ny” Williams, covering first-base. Williams fielded the
ball cleanly and combined a startling spring with a des-
perate slide to make the put-out, This beautiful play
seemed to leave the faculty in a trance, and the next
batter pushed one through the legs of Captain Smith

 

 

who failed to even slow it up.
of runs resulted, however.

In the lucky seventh, Billy Hinton, psychology pro-
fessor and right fielder singled to right and went to third
on the resulting error. Chittum’s hit brought him in
with the third run of the day. Two men were out
when “Lefty” Cooper, star moundsman and business
administration professor drew a walk. A little too
much lead off first led to his downfall however, and he
was picked off to end the inning.

Hinton, Faculty third baseman, worked a free pass
to open the eighth. Gleaton, Y. M. C. A. leader and
sub centerfielder next presented himself at the bat wear-
ing a uniform which would have been all the rage in
the gay nineties. The cheers of the students brought
him a clean single to left, but his success went to his
head for when the dust had cleared away he was perch-
ed on second with Hinton anchored to the same base.
Rules forbid two runners from occupying the same
station at the same time and Hinton was forced to leave
the sack to the speedy Gleaton. A stolen base and an
infielders’ choice put him across with the final run of
the game.

Both Cooper and Twombly, who relieved him in
the eighth, pitched excellent ball, only eight hits being
garnered off their deliveries.

Box score:

No damage in the form

FACULTY
N. Hinton, 3b
Giemiee ar. oe... e
V Ce? OP...
VG ede Oe ee ee
Fee), 20S eae Co aa ae
Smith, 2b
OEE Oo re TS
Wi bebe RE ko arth, hele orem
(Tin Gr Ta 6, ss siciccds stsatl, ede a aloe teeee: oie
Watkins, c
Cooper, p.........

‘Totals

POMS OR cides sek Mieke Webhe: donk MEY
POO et a ces a
Williams, 1b
Cremin, 3b
Meredith FF. 33). 2b vate fio ime ea
puimiechardeon, rfis:uctigaaden hab ie
WORN Ao ek Ge Sek ee
i. eehasdeon. Gh oe Bea a
Me. RC J Mei Se te gaa eke
POD UR I yk sn ccs Seda: Minea eee on, Cel
Methvin, p ..
Thibodeau, cf

CRORE OHHH HEHEHE HEHEHE ETE EE EES EEES

4 NNNWHEN KHOU Z S| NWOWFhAREAND HW

il OOO, K KK OOCOKFO = a oCcOoOrOrFFKOCOKFO #
oo SCOONKOROHRNHOE 4l rHOrRROROCOOKOe
unl SOSDDCC ORK HON® ol SwOOenNnooonre®™

Totals

CREE SHH HEHEHE HEHEHE EHO EEE SEES

; [ 33 ]

a "6 & ee AS Oe

FOOTBALL FORECAST

The 1931 edition of the Washington and Lee foot-
ball team is a more or less unknown quantity at pres-
ent. Confronted with the gigantic task of building up
a winning eleven and replacing eight veterans lost by
graduation, Coach Jimmy De Hart is making no rash
predictions for the coming season. That De Hart has
the ability to mold winning teams together is an estab-
lished fact, proven by his work at Duke last season

which was a continuation of his enviable record made
at Washington and Lee in 1923, 1924, and 1925.

W. and L. will return once more to the Warner
system along with the variations which De Hart in-
jects himself. This change of system is in itself an
obstacle as all of the present squad have been using the
Notre Dame system since entering school. Assisting
De Hart this year are C. E. Tilson, better known as
“Tex”, a member of De Hart’s W. and L. teams in
'23, 24, and ’25, and “Cy” Young, who joined the staff
a year ago.

A survey of the squad which reports for early
practice on September 7 shows that the veterans lost are
Page Bledsoe, Leigh Williams, and Charley Day, ends ;
Johnny Faulkner and Herb Groop, guard and center ;
Thibodeau, Red Jones and Noel Mellon, backs. ‘Their
places will be sought for by a squad of 35 men, chosen
by De Hart during spring practice, who will report a
week before school opens in September. Half of this
syuad are members of “Cy ”Young’s last year’s fresh-
man team and they are expected to bolster the varsity
material greatly.

Outstanding varsity men returning are “Tex” 'Til-
son, Frank Bailey, Pat Mitchell, and Nesbit in the line;
“Monk” Mattox, Gene Martin, and Nace Collins in
the backfield.

From the freshman team De Hart expects to have
Tom Boland, Amos Bolen, Rosenberg, Grove, and
Thomas to strengthen the line. From the freshman
backs the most promising are Joe Sawyers, Frank Al-
mon, and Bo Wilson.

During spring practice sessions De Hart stressed
the fundamentals and basic principles of the Warner
system which the team picked up rapidly. ‘There was
a favorable attitude among the members of the squad to
the short but hard drills in place of the long tedious
workouts. The practice sessions began on time and
were ended promptly each day. Later on in the spring
practice period, De Hart scrimmaged the team often
and there were comparatively few injuries, which inci-
dentally, have been the nemesis of W. and L. football
teams for years. ‘The new coach is well liked and his
practice of leading his men rather than driving them
has been favorably received. The success of the team
this year is a matter of the ability of the material and

I

oe ee” —O ae es ee:

De Hart will have them well drilled and fighting in

every game.
The 35 men reporting for fall practice are: Mor-
ris, ‘Tilson, Bacon, Hanley, Hudson, Moscovitch,

Thomas, Bailey, Rosenberg, Wofford, Grove, Boland,
Bolen, Kertz, McDonald, Kleiforth, Nesbit, Harris,
Mitchell, Steves, Banks, Murphy, Almon, Martin, Bo
Wilson, B. Wilson, Stevens, Pride, Flagg, Collins,
Mattox, Funkhouser, Sawyers, and Jarrett.
The 1931 schedule reads:
Sept. 26—Hampden Sydney, Lynchburg.
Oct. 3—Davidson, Lexington.
Oct. 10—Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.
Oct. 17-—W. Virginia, Charleston, W. Va.
Oct. 24—Virginia, Lexington.
Oct. 31—William and Mary, Norfolk.
Nov. 7—V. P. I., Blacksburg.
Nov. 14—Princeton, Princeton, N. J.
Nov. 21—Maryland, College Park, Md.
Nov. 28—Duke, Lexington.

 

“CY” YOUNG WILL TOUR SOUTH

Starting one week after Finals, Harry K. Young,
alumni secretary, will travel more than 8000 miles
through the South to interview prospective students
for this University and establish alumni connections.
This is the second year this method of personal inter-
view with future students has been arranged.

Traveling by machine Young expects to visit cities
in Kentucky, ‘Tennessee, Arkansas, ‘Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi and Alabama. As he cannot tell how many
boys in each city he will have to interview, his trip will
be of an informal nature with no definite itinerary. At
each city he will connect with the Alumni association,
and members will aid him in examining prospective stu-
dents.

“T can never tell beforehand how long I will have
to stay in one place,” he said. ‘Sometimes I must in-
terview more men than I expected, other times the
Alumni are scattered through the locality and it takes
considerable time to get in touch with them and find a
suitable place where I can talk to the boys. In most of
the Southern states I know many of the Alumni per-
sonally. Often I come in contact with fathers who were
graduated from Washington and Lee.”

This is the second year Young has made a trip of
this nature. [ast summer he started from [Lexington
immediately after the close of school and visited Lynch-
burg and other towns in Virginia before he swung
south. On completing the circuit the speedometer on
his machine registered for the trip 8,000 miles.

Inaugurating a western visit to Alumni Associa-
tions this year, he returned to school last month from
a two-week tour of West Virginia and Ohio, es far
west as Cincinnatti.

[| 34 |

fr oe ne 2 ON

mA ee aN a ee ee

 

EEE

Athletic Year Is Successful at W.and L.

Sm|N SIX major and three minor sports during
e 3 the 1930-31 season, Washington and Lee atli-
oe letes were credited with forty-four victories,
thirty losses and one tie. The major sports which the

    

 

University recognizes are football, basketball, baseball,
track, wrestling and boxing. The minor sports are
swimming, tennis and golf.

The season was climaxed by the swimming and
wrestling teams not dropping a duel meet. ‘The sports
card also shows that the basketball and baseball teams
finished the season with more tallies in the win column
than in the lost. ‘The football, track, tennis and golf
teams failed to win more matches than their opponents.

During the wrestling season, the Blue and White
grapplers showed remarkable power and ability in de-
feating the Army team, 34-0.
drubbing that the Army has ever received. About the
first week in February, the Washington and Lee basket-
ball team entered the Southern Conference tournament
at Atlanta. Georgia, ending up in first place in the
Conference, was the team to face the Generals in their
first game. The Washington and Lee—Georgia game
turned out to be the best game of the tournament. It
resulted in an overtime period and the Bulldogs won
by a score of 32-31 and the Generals gave the best per-
formance of the year. At the end of the basketball
season Washington and Lee lost one of the best ath-
letes in the history of the school. Leigh Williams,
four letter man, made his last appearance before Wash-
ington and Lee fans in the game with Virginia. Dur-
ing the seventh inning he was presented with a_ gold
watch by President Gaines as a gift from the student
body.

This was the worst

 

Freshman sports at Washington and Lee also
passed a favorable season. ‘The basketball team went
through the year undefeated, defeating such outstand-
ing teams as William and Mary, Virginia, Greenbriar
Military Academy, and Staunton Military Academy.
The yearling baseball club won five games out of nine.
The track team won a duel meet from Staunton Mili-
tary Academy for the first time in four years. | They
also defeated the Richmond freshmen at Richmond.

Intramural sports played a great part in minor
activities at Washington and Lee during the season
1930-31. The Kappa Alpha fraternity won the cup
when they chalked up twenty-five points at the end of
the baseball tournament. Sports participated in were;
touch football, wrestling, boxing, basketball, track, ten-
nis, golf and baseball.

TEN GAMEs IN FoorsaALL

At the end of the football season, Washington and
Lee had won three, lost six and tied one game. Ten
opponents had been played, the greatest number for sev-
eral years.

The Blue and White eleven won their first three
encounters by defeating Randolph-Macon College,
Hampden-Sidney and Richmond on consecutive Satur-
days. The next week they traveled to Charleston
where they met West Virginia in an annual battle but
dropped the game in the last period. At one time dur-
ing the game the teams were tied 13-all, but West Vir-
ginia displayed a great reserve power and won the
game, 33-13. A trip was made to Lexington, Ken-
tucky the next Saturday where the Generals lost to the
University of Kentucky, 33-14. The game was an-
other tie in the third quarter with a score of 14-14
after the Blue and White had staged a strong rally,
but the Kentuckians went wild in the last period and
added nineteen points.

St. Johns was the next opponent but the Generals
again lost, 7-0. V. P. I. was met on Homecoming day,
the following Saturday. ‘lhe Generals played the best
game of the year but had to be satisfied with a 0-0
score. Several times they were held on the one foot
mark by the strong V. P. I. eleven. ‘The next Satur-
day the Washington and Lee team journeyed to Col-
lege Park to meet Maryland in an annual encounter but
lost, 41-7. With high hopes of a victory over Virginia,
the Generals traveled to Charlottesville, the following
Saturday. Washington and Lee played hard but drop-
Pat Mitchell was the star of the
game and averaged six yards every time he plunged
through the Virginia line. The final game of the sea-
son was against Duke University at Durham on
Thanksgiving day. The Blue Devile chalked up two
touchdowns in the last period and won, 14-0.

ped the game, 21-7.

The year was the last for Coach Eugene Oberst,
who had faithfully taught the men the Rockne system
of football for two years. He was presented with a
token by all members of the 1930 squad to show their
appreciation in his work. His successor, Jimmy De-
Hart came to Lexington this spring to take over the
coaching reins.

Varsity awards were presented to J. A. Faulkner,
Ky. M. Nesbitt, F. R. Baily, J. W. Devine, H. R. Groop,
P. A. Holstein, C. EF. Tilson, E. P. Bledsoe, captain, C.
W. Cocke, C. W. Day, H. L. Williams, W. W. Mat-
tox, M. N. Thibodeau, P. Mitchell, N. R. Collins, J.

[ 35 ]

a. eee ee

I

MA  Gork 2 ee Ss

 

S. Schuchart, N. C. Mellon, A. C. Jones and E. P.
Martin.
RESULTS OF GAMES PLAYED

Randolph-Macon Col. 0O Washington and Lee 32

Hampden-Sidney .......... O Washington and Lee 15
Richmond College ........ O Washington and Lee 14
West Virginia ................ 33. Washington and Lee 13
NS i a a eonied 33 Washington and Lee 14
NINES «cy didted sa snis.+-3 7 Washington and Lee 0
Ria dk Avonese QO Washington and Lee 0
TRIED, nck cscccns-n-s05s-+- 50h 41 Washington and Lee 7
MINES i20cld:,..-.2.... 0a 21 Washington and Lee 7
fessor die... 40 ss -0gbb 14 Washington and Lee 0O

NE 1d sock ws cae 149 AMES 555 s0e taeiae 102

BASKETBALL TEAM GoEs NortH

Under the careful coaching of Ray Ellerman, who
was making his first appearance at Washington and
Lee as Varsity basket ball coach, the Blue and White
quintet won eleven and lost six games during the sea-
son. A northern trip was a feature of the 1931 sched-
ule, with games against Temple, New York Univer-
sity and Loyola.

The Generals opened the season with three wins,
defeating the Shawnee Athletic Club of Lynchburg,
Lenoir-Rhyne and St. Johns by close scores. A week
later they managed to win from Georgetown and Vir-
ginia but dropped one to Maryland. ‘The next week
the Generals left for the North country but were un-
successful in all their games. ‘Temple won by a score
of 38-24. After a quick jaunt to New York city, the
Violets of New York University defeated the Generals,
37-26. Loyola was met next but the Blue and White
team was not working properly and Loyola won, 36-34.
Before journeying to Kentucky, the Generals dropped
another game to Maryland. They were also nosed
out by the Kentuckians, 23-18. For the remainder of
the season the Generals returned to the winning col-
umn and won from West Virginia, North Carolina,
William and Mary, V. P. I., and Virginia.

The Blue and White team had won enough games
to enter the Southern Conference tournament at At-
lanta but they were the underdogs. Georgia was the
opponent after the first drawing of the teams. The
game was hotly contested and the Georgian team was
forced to play an extra period before the game could
be decided with Georgia finally winning, 32-31.

Washington and Lee claimed the State champion-
ship after defeating Virginia and V. P. I. twice and
William and Mary once. The Blue and White team
was the only one to place two men on the All-State
team. Leigh Williams was given a center position,
while Harris Cox was one of the forwards. Williams
and Cox have been on All-State teams for three years

 

and W. and L. has not been defeated by a state team
in four years.

Men receiving awards at the end of the season
were; Leigh Williams, Harris J. Cox, Harry J. Burke,
Samuel Barasch, Eugene Martin, Paul Holbrock, Jack
Jarrett, Jack Hardwick and manager Joe McVay.

RESULTS OF THE SEASON

Shawnee A. Club .......... 14 Washington and Lee 56
Se. Fohinsjiiisetiins..:..ite 25 Washington and Lee 28
Marylee: i3:/i8in.6440 35 Washington and Lee 21
Lenoir-Rhyne ................ 16 Washington and Lee 49
Georgetown ............:60+ 27 Washington and Lee 28
VaRNOG 1),.....-ccrcsca beeen 18 Washington and Lee 26
RII bs sais --inepd- ne 38 Washington and Lee 24
New York Univ. .......... 37. Washington and Lee 26
Le chain cell 36 Washington and Lee 34
MARA 55h 5. cbr et 27 Washington and Lee 16
Re iis 3.55362, 23 Washington and Lee 18
West Virginia .............. 34 Washington and Lee 38
North Carolina ............ 31 Washington and Lee 39
William and Mary ...... 31 Washington and Lee 44
Fe GP a ats 24 Washington and Lee 37
MOTRIN. 32-n5.---. do anateaned 18 Washington and Lee 20
RRs Ky rkcecies cha: sR A 17. Washington and Lee 37

ONE oF THE BEst SEASONS IN BASEBALL

Enjoying the most successful season in recent
years, the Washington and Lee baseball team won ten
of its fifteen games. ‘Two games not to be counted as
league tilts were played during commencement with the
University of Maryland.

The first two games were shutouts for the Gen-
eral nine. Georgetown was pushed aside, 8-0, while
four days later Bridgewater College was blanked, 12-0.
Maryland next invaded Lexington and defeated Wash-
ington and Lee, 3-1. A trip was made to Carolina
where the Generals won from North Carolina, 8-2 and
North Carolina State, 6-1. Virginia was next defeat-
ed, 9-2 at Charlottesville. ‘The Generals managed to
win one of the following three games scheduled nos-
ing out William and Mary 6-5 but dropped the other
two to North Carolina and V. P. I. The Gobblers
won their game in the last inning.

A trip north brought a victory over the Navy but
a loss from Maryland in a return game. Elon College
journeyed to Lexington where they showed a great deal
of power and won from the Generals in twelve innings,
9-6. The remaining three games on the schedule were
won by Washington and Lee from North Carolina
State, V. P. I., and Virginia.

Washington and Lee was deprived of the State
championship when they dropped a game to V. P. I. in
April. V. M. I. won the championship by winning
from Virginia and V. P. I. twice. The Generals end-

Continued on page 47

[ 36 ]

tT Ee > ee FF

——————

I

ee, ee Se

Publicity Drives Began 50 Years Ago

sg |UST fifty years ago, Washington and Lee
~ |University launched its first publicity cata-
> |paign, in an effort to enlarge the institution's

  

 

endowment.

During the last year, approximately 200,000 words
of University publicity have been sent out by the Pub-
licity department—a sharp contrast to the total of less
than 20,000 words published in newspapers during the
session of 1880-81.

The campaign was called a ‘“‘movement for enlarg-
ing the endowment of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity,’ and stories and editorials appeared in leading
papers throughout the East. Included in the list of
these papers are the New York Evening Post, New
York Herald, New Orleans Democrat, Philadelphia Jn-
quirer, Philadelphia Press, New York Times, New
York Tribune, New York Star, Louisville Courier-
Journal, and the Richmond Standard.

According to a University account of the cam-
paign published in 1881, “the origin and purpose of the
movement, from which valuable results have already
been realized, may be learned from extracts from lead-
ing journals.”

The Progress, of Philadelphia, states, “I devote
my broad pages this week to a very full report of the
meeting . . . in aid of the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia. The motive for this elab-
orate promotion of a specific work is because that col-
lege is a chief instrumentality in national reconciliation
and intellectual development. . . The effort to spread
the fruits of the best culture over the South has _ be-
come universal. ‘The intellectual feature of that sec-
tion is a great problem . . . and there is no feature of
the present, as there is none of the future, more aston-
ishing or attractive than the inducement offered to the
youth of the whole country in such educational founda-
tions as Washington and Lee.”

“Distinguished citizens of the several states .. .
were agreed . . . that the character, method, and _ pe-
culiar historical associations of the Washington and
Lee University rendered its permanent endowment a
specially good means” toward promoting education in
the South, according to the New York Evening Post,
which went on to say that “The working faculty of the
University is excellent, and its situation reduces the ex-
penses to the lowest limit, so that the most and best
will be made of the income from whatever endowment
it shall receive. . . . The higher education of young
men of the South is a necessity of the whole land.”

Pointing out that the University was in need of
funds, the New York Herald explained that “a great

deal has been done toward placing Washington and Lee
in the front rank of American colleges. It has made
a heroic struggle to maintain its position, contending
with poverty and war and the want that always follows
war. Surely in this time of peace and marvellous pros-
perity its appeals should not be made in vain.”

The New Orleans Democrat stated that “nothing
can better illustrate the disappearance of sectionalism
and the rapid growth of fraternalism between the peo-
ple of the North and South than the cordial and even
enthusiastic feeling which has been aroused in New
York and other great cities in the North in favor of
Washington and Lee University. . . It is very grati-
fying to find the foremost men and journals of the
North now advocating endowment of this historical in-
stitute of learning as will place it on a par with the best
in this or any other country, and we are sure the South
will deeply appreciate and cordially respond to the sen-
timents which the movement has elicited from so many
unexpected quarters.”

Telling of a meeting of trustees and patrons of
the University, held in Philadelphia in June, 1881, the
Inquirer of that city stated that ‘to nationalize a great
institution of learning is worthy of the good offices of
all patriots, and the meeting . . . was a memorable ef-
fort to attract popular attention to the college. . . In
no way can we prove more conclusively our desire for
the complete fraternization of the whole people of the
Union than by promoting the success of this venerable
and enterprising University, which will continue to dis-
tribute its great benisons throughout the United States
by the advanced education it provides to its alumni, and
enlarge its usefulness in exact proportion to the patron-
age extended. It will also give the youth of the South
an opportunity to secure thorough instruction, many
branches of which cannot be obtained elsewhere. ‘The
proceedings of yesterday’s meeting will be read with in-
terest everywhere, and the outcome must be such a lib-
eral encouragement to the Washington-Lee University
as will impel its managers to promptly carry out all
their excellent plans for extending the usefullness of
the institution.

The Philadelphia Press, appealing for support of
the movement, told of the accomplishments of grad-
uates of the University. ‘Among the names are those
of some of the most distinguished men our country has
ever produced, and who have filled the highest positions
of honor and trust in the gift of the people of their sev-
eral States—seven United States Senators, seven Gov-
ernors of States, more than twenty Congressmen, twen-
ty-six judges of Superior Courts, thirteen presidents of

[ 37 ]

_ Mm. sR A oe: See IN

I een Oy ae Oe ee

 

colleges, and a number of eminent divines, lawyers, phy-
sicians, legislators, and many other prominent and use-
ful citizens in the various pursuits of life.”

In response to numerous gifts to the institution,
“Such lib-

erality,” the paper pointed out, “in such a cause deserves

the Richmond Standard was enthusiastic.

the warmest recognition, not only from the alumni of
old Washington College and Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, but from everyone in the South interested in
education. ‘The money could not have been better be-
stowed. [Here the Standard refers to Colonel Thomas
A. Scott’s donation of $60,000. |

the influence of this seat of learning has been impress-

lor over a century

ing itself upon every element of society and every avo-
cation in which virtue and culture are factors—and that,
too, without cost to the State.
lecture-room—in fact, all the professions

The bar, the bench, the
have drawn
from its graduates many of their highest and purest

 

ornaments ; and Colonel Scott is aiding in the perpetua-
tion of a work near to the hearts of a long line of noble
men from Washington down.”

Extracts from other editorials concerning the
movement may be found in the Supplement to the Uni-
versity catalogue for 1880-81.

FITZGERALD HEADS TROUBADOURS

Harry Fitzgerald was elected president of the

Troubadours for the year 1931-32. Fitzgerald is a
junior in the Academic school and first baseman on
the baseball team. He played the part of Capt. Stan-
hope in the Troubadours’ fall production, “Journey's
End.”

Arthur Lamar was elected vice-president and Pey-
ton Winfree business manager.

An amendment to the constitution of the organi-
zation was made forming an Advisory Board, which
is to be composed of five of the active members of the
organization. ‘The members chosen for next year are
Allen Wofford, Rucker Ryland, Preston Sale, Ren-
der Thomas and Franklin Jones.

 

Three Washington and Lee Alumni are now on
the teaching staff of the University of Ilinois—Pro-
fessor Horace V. Canter, "96, Department of Greek,
Professor M. T. McClure, 05, Department of Philoso-
phy, and Associate Professor Paul D. Converse, ‘153,
Department of Kconomics.

 

“ Billy” Hinton

of '25, from Paris, Kentucky.

Pursues Doctorate

‘Billy’ Hinton came to Washington and Lee in the fall
As he wanted to know what

was going on inside peoples’ heads, he studied psychology.
As he wanted to do something about what he found inside
peoples’ heads, he studied education. After getting his A.B.
degree in-1929, Billy stayed at W. and L,. for a Master's de-
gree, and taught two courses in education and applied’ psy-
chology while completing the work for his M.A., which he
received in 1930.

I‘or the past year he has been an instructor in psychology
and education, and his popularity as a teacher is the result of
his personality and wit as much as his scholarship. — Last
summer “Billy” took the first quarter of his graduate study
toward the Doctor’s degree at Ohio State University, and will
return this summer to complete the second quarter, leaving
lexington for Ohio on June 20.

During the week of July 15, “Billy” will act as super-
visor of college board examinations in Lynchburg, for that
district. He will be in charge of the administration of col-
lege entrance examinations, as directed by the Central College

 

Board, to be given at Virginia Episcopal High School.

As an undergraduate he held the first and second Education scholarships, in ’26-’27 and ’27-’28, re-
He was a member of Kappa Phi Kappa, educational fraternity, and its president in 1927. He
was elected secretary-treasurer of the student body in ’28-’29 and is a member of Kappa Alpha.

spectively.

Congenial “Billy” is headed for a successful career, but his friends are sure that he will never be “that
kind” of a pedagogue. He is much too human and too sane, though soon we may have the honor of call-

ing him “Doctor Billy.”

 

 

 

[ 38 ]

 

-

Tt: 2 oS  t :- A oM

A

I

me A G:- A @ Oe ioe

 

—__——

Sons and Grandsons of Alumni Ask for Degree

 

IGH'T sons and one grandson of Washington
~ jand Lee Alumni were applicants for degrees
“Jat the 181st Commencement this year.

W. A. Glasgow, candidate for the Bachelor of
Laws degree, is the son of Judge Joseph A. Glasgow,
of Fincastle, Virginia. Judge Glasgow received an
I.1..B. degree from Washington and lee in 1891. He
is at present practicing law in Staunton, Virginia.

J. B. Chamberlain, grandson of George Earl
Chamberlain, was a candidate for the Bachelor of Arts
Mr. Chamberlain of the class of 1876 holds
Since he was

 

 

degree.
an A.B. and LL.B. degree from here.
graduated, he has been a member of the Legislature,
District Attorney, Attorney General, Governor of Ore-
gon, United States Senator from Oregon, and has
been on the United States Shipping Board. He is now
a Lawyer in Washington, D. C.

T. W. Davenport, a candidate for an A.B. degree
is the son of Joseph Andrews Davenport of Mer Rouge,
{_ouisiana. Mr. Dav-
enport is President of the Mer Rouge State Bank.

T. S. Fox, a candidate for the A.B. degree is the
Mr. Fox received his

He was in the class of 1889,

son of Horace Marion Fox.
master’s degree from Roanoke College and attended the
Washington and Lee Law School, finishing in 1901.
He is a lawyer in Roanoke, Virginia.

HH. R. Mahler, Jr., candidate for an A.B. degree is
the son of Henry Richard Mahler of ‘Thomasville,
Georgia. Mr. Mahler was graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee with an A.B. degree in 1908 and while
He later got
his master’s degree from Columbia University. At pres-
ent, he is Principal of the High School at Thomasville,
Georgia.

tere was assistant professor of English.

A. G. Perry, an applicant for the A.B. degree is
the son of George Campbell Perry, who attended the
law school here in 1897. He received his B.S. degree
from Emory and Henry. He was a lawyer at Wise,
Virginia, a member of the 68th and 69th Virginia Con-
gress and at present is associated with the law firm of
Chapman, Peery and Buchanan, at Tazewell, Va.

Stuart Sanders, son of Robert Stuart Sanders, of
Louisville, Kentucky, was a candidate for the Bache-
lor of Arts degree. Rev. Robert Sanders attended
Washington and Lee in 1906 and is the Presbyterian
Minister at Sweetwater, ‘Tenn.

J. H. Tyler, III, was a candidate for the Bache-
lor of Arts degree. He is the son of S. H, Tyler who
Was graduated from Washington and I,ee in 1896 with
an [1,.B. degree. He has been associated with the firm

of Mann and Tyler, and has recently resigned the
Mayorship of Norfolk, Va.

J. A. Veech a candidate for the Bachelor of Science
degree is the son of James Veech of the class of
1893. | He is manager of the St. Mathews Financing
Company of Louisville, Ky.

 

O’NEAL HEADS FARM BUREAU.

A Washington and Lee alumnus was elected to head
the largest farm organization in the world when the
board of directors of the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration in session in Chicago chose Edward A. O'Neal
of Florence and Montgomery, Alabama, as their presi-
dent to succeed Sam H. Thompson of Chicago, IIl.,
who resigned to accept an appointment from President
Hoover as a member of the Federal Farm Board.

Mr. O'Neal owns and operates what is said to be
one of Alabama's finest farms, a 2,600 acre tract near
Florence. He is a grandson of the late Gov. Kdward
A. O’Neal and a nephew of the late Gov. Emmett
O'Neal of Alabama. Mr. O’Neal’s farm was the first
Alabama land deeded by authority of President Andrew
Jackson under a grant signed by Henry Clay and John
Quincy Adams. His country home is two miles from
Muscle Shoals and he has done much work for the de-
velopment of this project for the benefit of the farmers
and people of Alabama.

Mr. O'Neal took his A.B. degree at Washington
and Lee in 1898, and afterward studied law here,
but has never practiced his profession. He is a member
of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, and was President
of Finals.

 

GIVE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESSES

Several members of the faculty have delivered
commencement addresses at different colleges and high
schools this spring.

Dr. F. P. Gaines delivered the commencement ad-
dress at the Mary Baldwin School for girls in Staun-
ton, Va., on May 25th. On June 2nd he is to address
an alumni gathering at Columbia University. Dr.
Gaines was also the commencement speaker at Lexing-
ton, Winchester, and Lynchburg high schools.

Dr. James Lewis Howe delivered the commence-
ment address at Lebanon High School in Russell
County, Va.

Dr. Raymon T. Johnson, member of the faculty
of the law school, spoke at the commencement at the
Woodstock High School, Woodstock, Va.

[ 39 ]

Tie. & A ee Se Oe

I

Mos GC. Ue Se ow ee.

Campus Visualized 20 Years Hence

=|, Washington and Lee campus of the future
DP will be different in many respects from that ot

today, if the plans for its development are
completed. ‘These range, according to Hale Houston,
associate professor of Civil Engineering, from the
practical consideration of a new road and of parking
facilities to such visionary schemes as a new auditor-
ium, or an addition of several buildings to complete the
symmetry of the rear of the campus.

The most needed improvement is a road from the
Library to the Chemistry building. This has a prac-
tical and theoretical plan. ‘The original idea was to
drop the road slightly down the hill, and make it run
where the power house now stands. However, this will
have to wait until the power house is moved, and as this
may be a matter of years and the road is getting stead-
ily rougher, it may be necessary to combine future
plans with present necessities and build a road which
can be used now.

The moving of the power house will improve the
looks of that part of the campus a great deal. The
plan is to move it across the ravine to the railroad
tracks, where it will have the double advantage of being
completely out of the way and of being nearer its coal
supply and thus eliminating the long hoist now in use.
The removal of the building will facilitate development
of that part of the campus. ‘This project, of course, is
contingent on raising the necessary money.

At present another great need and one which will
soon receive attention is better parking facilities behind
the gymnasium. The present plan is to develop the
old tourist camp for this purpose. Parking on the
drives will be entirely eliminated during games and
dances. ‘The space behind the dormitories will be re-
served for busses alone, which will not be moving
around so much, and would block traffic if allowed to
park elsewhere. Behind the gymnasium there will be
space for a large number of cars; another entrance into
Washington Street will help them to get in and out.
The erection of a taxi stand or the utilization of the
present stand there for that purpose would make it eas-
ier to get taxis. This whole scheme will be shortly de-

 
 

veloped.

The approach to the Alumni Bridge will be finish-
ed as soon as the money is secured. The architect's
plans call for the building of twin circular stairsteps
from the present end of the concrete to the level of the
roadway, with some sort of ornamental pillars or some
structure in the center. ‘The estimated cost of building
this part of the bridge is around $15,000.

Plans for a $50,000 addition to the stadium are al-

so under way. The plan calls for an addition to the
stands, which are only the first unit of the contemplated
structure. ‘The stands will be built back in a semi-
circle, with the greatest number of tiers just behind the
center of the football field.

Beautification of the ravine between the Univer-
sity buildings and the athletic field is a project which
offers a dream to delight the heart of a landscape gard-
ner. ‘The site offers wonderful possibilities for a park.
It would be an expensive project, both in original cost
and in upkeep, but would add greatly to the beauty of
that part of the University possessions.

The plan is to clean up all that ravine, and plant
There are magnificent trees there, and their
presence can be utilized. ‘Transplanting the native
shrubbery from the hills around Lexington to this val-
ley would make it botanically as well as scenically in-
teresting. ‘The ravine, if this idea is carried out, would
become an asset to the University instead of a liability.

At the front of the campus there is also great room
for development. One project includes the purchase
of all the buildings up to Washington Street, razing
them and transforming that area into campus. This
would add greatly to the beauty of the campus by giv-
ing a view from that side.

Various plans for the development of the Lee
Chapel or its enlargement for use in assemblies and
other University functions have been advanced. Most
of these have fallen through, though there are several
which might be practical. The best of these includes
building a large auditorium below the present Chapel,
with its back, like that of the Chapel, to the mauso-
leum. A similar doorway to the one now in use would
give access to the recumbrent statue from that side.

The foundations have already been laid for the au-
ditorium of the Chemistry building, which will abut the
present building. This will be a semi-circular struc-
ture on the back of the present building, overlooking
the ravine.

The approach to the University on Henry Street
may be beautified in several ways. The hump in the
street there that makes it almost impossible to see the
University from Main street, will some day be elimin-
ated and a smooth approach given. The buildings on
the southwest corner of Main and Henry streets may
be razed to give an even more unobstructed approach.

There are plans also which call for the transfor-
mation of the hall standing at this corner, which the
University owns, into a “little theatre,” to be used for
all varieties of student activities, Troubadours, Glee
Club, recitals, etc.

it in grass.

[ 40 }

TT. ae AL Se ae Oa

Some day, too, the plans for the erection of a fra-
ternity court will be completed. The Beta Theta Pi,
Phi Delta Theta, and Pi Kappa Alpha houses are al-
ready completed. The plans for the construction of a
fourth house in this group, completing the quadrangle,
and giving a sort of inclosed court between the four
houses.

A great many of these projects, of course, are vis-
ionary in the extreme. But some of them have been al-
ready begun, some of them will be done in a few years,
and some of the others as soon as the University can
afford it.
on the campus to make it more like the ideal.

yn
['wenty years should see some development

Fil
>

FOOTBALL GAME DELAYS MEETING

Education is king, but not in Charleston, W. Va.,
on October 17. Football will be the reigning power
that day.

Because of strenuous opposition by school author-
ities in Charleston, the annual meeting of the State
Educational Association, in Charleston has been delay-

I

a ee ee a eg ae ee oe

ed from October 15-17 to October 29-31.

At a meeting held in Charleston, the officials
stated that it would be impossible to take care of the
attendance on the original dates because of the crowd
there for the annual Washington and Lee—West Vir-
ginia football game on October 17.

BY ition
VV

THREE FACULTY MEMBERS LEAVING

But few gaps will be seen in the ranks of the fac-
ulty when school commences next September, if present
plans are indicative.

William L, Mapel, acting head of the department
of journalism, will be away on a year’s leave of absence.

Fitzgerald Flournoy, member of the English de-
partment, will be away on a year’s leave of absence to
continue his graduate study.

J. K. Leslie, member of the Romance Language
department, will terminate his connection with the fac-
ulty at the conclusion of this semester. Mr. Leslie
had replaced C. EK. Ewing, who was away this year
completing his graduate study.

 

callers Washington and Lee has had.

all-around backfield men.

A Well-Remembered Athlete: “Student” Frew

If coach De Hart ever gets another quarterback like “Student”
Frew, he will have one of the fastest, brainiest, triple-threat signal

Frew was small enough to pass unnoticed in a crowd, and he was
small for football, but he ended up by being one of the Generals’ best
And they called him “Student” because,
though he studied hard, he worried if he didn’t get his work done.

“Student”? came to Washington and Lee from Fishburne Mili-

 

tary Academy, studied for the B.S. in commerce, and got his degree
in 23. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Alpha Kappa Psi, was captain of baseball in his senior year, vice-
president of the sophomore class, vice-president of the student body,
and secretary and treasurer of the Athletic Council.

In his junior year “Student” broke a bone in his foot in the sec-
ond game of the season against Lynchburg College. He played no
more football that year, but by that spring he was playing baseball in
his regular outfield position. It is still remembered, how “Monk’”’ :
Mattox, regular catcher, broke his ankle on a slide to second early in the season. Frew never missed a fly
in the outfield, so they called him in to catch. He made up for his size by using his head, adapted himself
as a catcher, and played the rest of the season until the last three games—then broke his ankle sliding into
third. “Wahoo” MacDonald replaced Mattox and Frew.

 

Nor will it ever be forgotten how “Student” Frew “defied tradition” one unusually warm. spring.
Classmates were surprised one morning by a petition, posted on the bulletin board, signed by Frew, asking
that students leave off coats and vests and go to classes in shirt sleeves. Three quarters of the student
hody signed the petition, went to classes without coats, and “Student’s” plea for hot-weather tactics was
answered.

After graduation Frew was given a tryout with the Detroit Tigers, played a vear, and then went to
Spartanburg in the South Atlantic League. He is now teaching and coaching at a High School in North
Carolina.

 

[ 41 ]

 

St eet 3 os A Se

I

MR.  G. Peee  ee  . oe

 

PROF. RIEGEL WRITES ARTICLE

The varying popularity of Herman Melville, the
American novelist, is dissected in an article by O. W.
Riegel, Washington and Lee journalism professor,
published in the May issue of “American Literature.”
The article is called “The Anatomy of Melville's
Fame.”

Professor Riegel points to and corrects two er-
roneous conclusions about Melville. The recent en-
thusiasm for this author, his article shows, is not due
to any contemporary blindness to his merits, nor to
any subsequent oblivion.

Rather, Professor Riegel says, the “revival” seems
to be motivated by a new biographical interest, “new
biography” having found in Melville an excellent
vehicle for its “case history” method. ‘The article is
fully annotated as to bibliography.

‘American Literature” is published quarterly by
the Duke University Press with the cooperation of the
American literature group of the Modern Language
Association of America.

 

OLD FACULTY WIDELY SCATTERED

Of the twelve professors who made up the Wash-
mgton and Lee Faculty in 1900, Alexander L,. Nelson,
James A. Quarles and Donald C. Humphreys, are dead ;
Addison Hogue and Walter L. Stevens have retired ;
Harry D. Campbell is Dean of Washington and Lee
University, James L. Howe is Head of the Chemistry
Department at the same school, George H. Denny is
President of the University of Alabama, and William
S. Currell is Dean of the Graduate College of the Uni-
versity of South Carolina; Henry St. George Tucker
is a United States Congressman from Virginia, H.
Parker Willis is an instructor of finance at Columbia
University, and the whereabouts of Henry Alexander
White are unknown.

Thirty professors have come to Washington and
Lee since 1900 and out of that thirty only thirteen re-
main. Dean Campbell has been connected with the
University since 1887, when he came here as Professor
of Geology and Biology. James Howe has been here
since 1894, when he came as Professor of Chemistry.
From 1894 to 1905 all the professors who were ap-
pointed in that time have gone, called to other fields or
by death.

Perhaps. three of the most interesting men who
have taught at Washington and Lee in former years
and have gone forth in different fields are: The Hon-
orable Henry St. George Tucker who left the faculty
in 1905 to enter the field of politics and is now United
States Congressman from this district, John Halladay
Latane (deceased 1929) who was the author of many
recognized History text books, and Carl Everett Leon-
ard Gill, who left in 1930, and is now an Assistant

Trade Commissioner at Accra, Union of South Africa.

The present faculty consists of twenty-one Pro-
fessors, thirteen Associate Professors, thirteen Assis-
tant Professors, seven Instructors and twenty student
assistants, to make up a total of seventy-four men en-
gaged in teaching. ‘This is a far cry from the twelve
Professors and seven assistants which went to make
up the faculty in 1900.

 

“FIGHTING NINTH” NAMES FLANNAGAN

John W. Flannagan Jr., son of John William
Flannagan and Bessie Haskins Wills Flannagan, was
born in Louisa County, Virginia, February 20, 1885.

One of his maternal grandfathers, Samuel Lyle,
settled Timber Ridge in Rockbridge County. He was
soon appointed to the Presbytery to collect subscrip-
tions in the forks of the James River for Liberty Hall
Academy of which he became Treasurer from 1778
1783 and Trustee from 1776 until his death. Another
of his maternal grandfathers, William Lyle (son of
Samuel), was a Trustee of Washington College from
1796-1835 and an Elder in Timber Ridge Church. An-
other maternal grandfather, Captain Henry McClung,
was a Trustee of Washington College from 1812 to
1830.

Mr. Flannagan’s great grandfather, James Gra-
ham Lyle, was one of the first to receive the Master
of Arts degree from Washington College. This was
in April, 1825, when James Lyle and Sydney Baxter,
son of the president of the college, were awarded their
M.A. degrees.

Mr. Flannagan was educated in the public schools
of Louisa County and left home to work on a railroad
at the age of 16. He worked for two years in order
to obtain money to attend Washington and Lee. He
attended the University in 1903-4 and then returned to
his job on the railroad to raise more funds for his re-
turn to school. He entered the Law School in 1905
and received his LL.B. in 1907.

Upon his graduation, Mr. Flannagan moved to
Appalachia, Wise County in June, 1907, and stayed
there until October when he became connected with the
legal department of the Clinchfield Coal Corporation
abstracting titles in Dickenson and Buchanan Counties.
He opened his first law office in 1910 in Grundy, Buch-
anan County, Virginia. In 1916 Mr. Flannagan was
elected Commonwealth’s Attorney for Buchanan Coun-
ty and resigned in 1917 to move to Clintwood, Dicken-
son County and form a law partnership with the Hon.
W. H. Rouse. In 1925 he moved to Bristoi, Virginia,
and became a member of the law firm of Morison,
Rouse and Flannagan. Mr. Flannagan was elected to
Congress in 1930 from the “Fighting Ninth” Virginia
District by a majority of 6558, the largest majority any
candidate has ever received for fifty-four years.

[ 42 ]

 

 

-

 

At @ eM N
SPEAKS OF HOME IN CIVILIZATION

Speaking of the home in relation to the church,
the school, and the community, Dr. Walter A. Flick,
head of the department of psychology of the Univer-
sity, delivered the principal address at the annual meet-
ing of the Natural Bridge District of the Co-operative
Education Association of Virginia, held in Staunton
the last of April.

| game OR

Dr. Flick’s address was given in connection with

a drive for community betterment being conducted by
the association. In speaking of the home in relation
to the church, the school, and the community, the Doc-
tor stated that there is a constant loss in the home of
manuel dexterity and moral steadiness, and urged that
the home should not surrender its place in the develop-
ment of child life and training to any other agency of
hand, skill, or moral merit.

Homes of the community should make themselves
more responsible for the social and recreational wel-
fare of the teachers, so that teachers may become a per-
sonal part of the entire community, Dr. Flick said. The
home should leave the professional details to the prin-
cipal and teacher, but see that educational leadership in
the country has business-like qualities in relation to
building projects, transportation of pupils, and teach-
ers’ salaries.

At the meeting reports were read by community
representatives showing encouraging and_ constructive
work in community betterment. ‘Twenty-eight com-
munity leagues were represented.

 

TO IMPROVE WILSON FIELD.

Washington and Lee men returning to Lexington
next year will in all probability see a vast improve-
ment in the facilities of Wilson Field. ‘The recent in-
stallation of a complete Western Electric amplifying
apparatus for use in the gymnasium and on the athlet-
ic field was a forerunner to a_ greater improvement
which is at present tentative. The proposed plan is to
enlarge the stadium by the addition of 5,000 new seats
and to install beneath the stands larger and more mod-
ern accommodations for the use of athletic teams.

The amplifying set which was first used during
the inauguration of Doctor Gaines in October has been
used extensively since and proclaimed to be highly suc-
cessful. The installation for the the Inaugural Cere-
monies was almost imperative to enable the large gath-
ering to hear the speeches.

This set which is the most complete and efficient
available, was installed at a cost of $4400 and is to be
used jointly by the university itself and the athletic as-
sociation. It is located in the Doremus Gymnasium
and amplifiers above the main floor and also on Wilson
Field. The set operates from a main panel switchboard
which has four distinct uses or units which can be

I

ee oe cee

broadcast through the amplifiers on the gymnasium
floor or on the athletic field. ‘The four units are mic-
rophone, radio, victrola, and broadcasting.

The microphone unit is used to increase the vol-
ume of speeches at all gatherings and to reproduce
music from orchestras during dances. ‘The chief use
on the athletic field is the announcing of plays and play-
ers during athletic contests. The progress of football
games and track meets is made easier to follow by the
accompanying announcements. The volume of any
sound from the microphone is regulated and reproduc-
ed through the main switchboard in the gym.

The radio unit is for the reception of radio pro-
grams from regular broadcasting stations. These pro-
grams are tuned-in on the set in the gymnasium and
then transmitted to the desired location. ‘This unit is
used for public gatherings or to entertain crowds be-
tween the rest periods of athletic contests. The vic-
trola unit is on the same principle except that the record
sounds are transmitted instead of radio programs. ‘The
broadcasting unit is to enable direct broadcasting of
university events from Lexington to the rest of the
world by way of regular hook-ups.

The tentative plans to improve and enlarge the
stands on Wilson Field will be submitted to the Board
of Trustees on June 8 for their approval. A committee
consisting of Doctor Gaines, R. A. Smith, Dr. Dickey,
Forest Fletcher, and Prof. Houston have been work-
ing on the proposed project and the plans received re-
cently from the Alabama Steel and Iron Company have
met their approval. ,

The new plans call for the addition of 5,000 more
seats to the stadium. Under the new stands there are
arrangements to erect adequate dressing rooms and
shower rooms for both varsity and freshman teams.
The new seats are to be erected above the ones now
standing and a cement walk to be used for an approach
from the top will be built. In addition to the dressing
rooms beneath the stands there will be built several store
rooms and a garage. These improvements will re-
place the facilities destroyed by the burning of the field
house earlier in the year.

If the plans are approved in June, work will be
started immediately, according to R. A. Smith, direc-
tor of athletics, and will be ready for use next fall.
The estimated cost of the improvements is placed at

$30,000.

 

Pierce B. Lantz, 16, is practicing law in Blacks-

ville, W. Va.

 

Ran Cabell, ’20, is with the Cabell Coal Co..
Covington, Va.

 

Thomas R. (Cap) Nelson, ’25, is practicing law
in Staunton, Va.

[ 43 ]

re: & A a: Oo IN

173 GET DEGREES AT COMMENCEMENT

Continued from page 4

Pointing out that those parts of the structure of
our civilization which now are functioning least suc-
cessfully are those in which material sciences can least
be employed, and in which social sciences must shape
the course, Mr. Lowden said that if civilization is to
endure a great part of the burden rests upon the devel-
opment. of social sciences.

The present business depression, caused by lack
of balance in prices and waste in natural resources, he
explained, may be overcome only when society is more
perfectly articulated.

“Self-government, if it is to endure, must employ
all the resources of the social sciences,” Mr Lowden
reiterated. “It is hopeful as a sign of the times that
political science especially is now concerned with
actual facts of government. Just as business has grown
away from the ‘rule of the thumb’ and employed scien-
tific methods more and more, so the government must
avail itself of all the knowledge that science can bring
to the problems of government.”

Mr. Lowden concluded with the belief that the
representative government which our forefathers sought
to establish is the best hope of the earth, but if it is to
be preserved and bettered we must look to development
of the social sciences as the foundation for its sup-
port and improvement.

Degrees in law, science, commerce, arts, jour-
nalism, and graduate work were conferred by Dr.
Gaines. Members of the University board of trustees
and faculty were seated on the platform in front of
graduate and visitors.

John M. Dean, Detroit, Mich., delivered the vale-
dictory address of the senior class.

Dr. Robert F. Campbell, pastor of the First Pres-
hyterian Church, Asheville, N. C., and brother of Dr.
Henry Donald Campbell, dean of the University, deliv-
ered the baccalaureate sermon to the graduating class
Sunday morning, June 7, in historic Lee chapel.

In his address, Dr. Campbell answered the ques-
tions, “Whose man are you?” and “Whose man ought
you to be?”

First, he said, “you ought to be nobody’s man.”
To be nobody’s man it is necessary to be dependent on
nobody, subsidized by nobody, in fear of nobody, and
following no man blindly.

“You ought to be everybody’s man.” Dr. Campbell
said, in the sense that “you should be everybody’s man
in sympathy” and “everybody’s man in service.” Lastly
he declared, “you ought to be God’s man, for he who
is God’s man, and he alone, finds the true balance, the
perfect equilibrium, of freedom and restraint.”

Quoting Pope’s inscription for the collar of a dog
belonging to the Prince of Wales, who was living at
the palace at Kew.

I

Mw CsA 2 Be Rae

“T am his highness’ dog at Kew,
Pray tell me, sir, whose dog are you?”
Dr. Campbell told the graduates that ‘‘unless you
are willing to lead a dog’s life you'll wear no collar
but your own.”

 

NOTABLES VISIT CHAPEL

This year has seen notables from all over the
United States and several foreign countries register
their names in the register of visitors at Lee Chapel.
Among recent visitors was Governor Blackwood of
South Carolina, Major B. H. Fuller, Commandant of
the U. S. Marine Corps, and Rear Admiral Kennedy,
of the U. S. Navy.

During the year several prominent alumni have
returned, including John W. Davis, Paul Rockwood,
an aviator located at Paris, and many others. Edwin
Markham, poet and philosopher, has registered his
name on the roll.

The heads of the various U. D. C. chapters from
all over the country have made the pilgrimage to this
shrine of the lost cause, and have paid tribute to the
leader of the Confederacy.

During the year the chapel received the addition
of eight battleflags, long kept in Northern hands, that
were returned to be placed along with the other memos
of the days of ’61. One of these flags was captured at
Gettysburg and another at the surrender at Appo-
mattox.

A wreath from the Technical School of Chicago
was placed on the statute with fitting ceremonies.

One of the most impressive functions that occurred
in the historic old building was the inauguration of
Dr. Gaines as the new president of the University.

Visitors from foreign nations include: China, San-
tiago, Guatemala, Mexico, England, France, Scotland,
Ireland, Canada, Burma, Bermuda, Germany, Japan,
Nova Scotia, Syria, Bahamas, Porto Rico, India, Per-
sia, and Bolivia.

 

GRAD WEDS DURING FINALS

The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Reed to Sam C.
Harrison, Jr., ’28, Delta Tau Delta, was celebrated in
the Lee Memorial Episcopal Church at 5 o'clock, Tues-
day, June 9. Rev. Vincent Franks performed the cere-
mony. E. S. Graves was the best man. it was a small
wedding, only eight friends being present.

A dinner was given the bride and groom at the
Delta Tau Delta House following the ceremony.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Harrison are from Atlanta,
Mr. Harrison being with the Travelers Insurance Co.
of that city.

Mr. Harrison’s father, Capt. S. C. Harrison, U.
S. Army, is also an alumnus of Washington and Lee.
of the class of 1903.

[ 44 ]

 

-

- H E

—

UNLOCATED ALUMNI

Continued from page 26

Rev. Daniel Crump Buchanan, ’14, Hartford Theolog-
ical Seminary, Hartford, Conn.

Philip Jukes Bucher, ’20, Newport News, Va.

John McClellan Buckingham, ’02, 56 S. Main St., Mem-
phis, Tenn.

Joseph Taylor Budd, Jr., 07, Atlanta, Ga.

Stuart Buford, ’82, Landgraff, W. Va.

James Smith Bullington, "93, 307 N. Wenona Ave.,
Bay City, W. S., Mich.

Joshua Fry Bullitt, Jr., 12, Big Stone Gap, Va.

James Paul Bumgardner, 27, Salem, W. Va.

Amon Burgee, ’17, Frederick, Md.

C. E. Burke, ’22, 527 Washington St., Petersburg, Va.

Cecil Henry Burke, ’98, Auburn, Ala.

Everett H. Burke, ‘24, 2202 Decatur Place, Washing-
ton, D. C. |

Richard Daniel Burke, '90, Chattanooga, ‘Tenn.

James Caldwell Burnett, 98, 614 Trust Bldg., Louis-
ville, Ky.

Walter Roscoe Burnett, ’12, Kingsport, Tenn.

James Whitney Burroughs, ’10, Lynchburg, Va.

Harry B. Burt, Jr., S. W. 17th St. & 4th ‘Terrace,
Miami, Fla.

Harry Clifford Burton, ‘08, Arcadia, Fla.

Ruberd Harold Burton, ’14, 205 6th St., Chickasha,
Oklahoma. |

Claude Baxter Bush, 714, South Fork, Va.

Charles Edward Bushong, 99, Woodstock, Va.

R. C. Buskirk, ’20, Huntington, W. Va.

Harry Lee Butler, 09, Holden, W. Va.

Harry M. Butler, ’12, 1542 Calhoun St., New Orleans,
Louisiana.

Holt Wilson Butt, ’22, Baltimore, Maryland.

John Laurence Busby, ’03, Philadelphia, Pa.

John S. Caffee, ’28, Guilford, Baltimore, Md.

Lowndes Calhoun, ’94, 91 E. Pine St.. Atlanta, Ga.

Theodore Calhoun, '20, formerly U. S. Navy.

Percy A. Calkins, ’14, Goode, Va.

Charles William Campbell, ’22, Norfolk, Va.

Glenn C. Campbell, °13, Brownsburg, Va.

Lytton C. Campbell, "14, 730 Oak St., Chattanooga,
Tennessee.

C. Fred Carlson, '22, 37 Remsen St., Brooklyn, N. Y.
Texas.

John Lovelace Carmichael, ’13, Atlanta, Ga.

Marshall Sidney Carney, 03, Mobile, Ala.

Clarence M. Carpenter, 96, care R. G. Dunn & Co.,
Knoxville, Tenn.

Courtney S. Carpenter, 03; 1209 3rd St., S. W., Roa-
noke, Va.

Russell Carr, 09, 67 Wall St., New York City, N. Y.

A. B. Carruthers, Jr., ’25, Jacksonville, Fla.

a Lea MN CO

MotA Gb A Zea ee

Wm. Watts Carr, 96, Christiansburg, Va.

Clarence Reed Carter, ’11, 528 Bing Bldg., Houston,

James Garland Carter, ’76, Louisville, Ky.

Stuart Robinson Carter, 96, East Orange, N. J.

Nathaniel Martin Cartmell, 94, U. S. Army, retired.

Dudley English Casey, ‘17, Rome, Ga.

Krank E. Cash, ’10, 1103 Franklin Ave., Wilkinsburg,
Pennsylvania.

W. W. Cash, Jr., care Electric Co., Odessa, Del.

Belvidere Brooks Cavitt, ’76, Keyser, W. Va.

William L,. Cazort, Lamar, Ark.

Daniel H. Cecil, Kansas City, Mo.

Herbert Chafin, ’10, Huntsville, Ala.

James C. Chalmers, ’10, 606 Elizabeth Ave., Charlotte,
North Carolina.

William D. H. Chandler, care Alabama Inspection and
Rating Bureau, Birmingham, Ala.

Tao Hung Chang, ’20, 2312 19th St., N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

Frederick J. Chapin, 08, 2027 O St., Washington, D. C.

John Felder Charlton, 05, Tampa, Fla.

John R. Charlton, 07, Macdonald, W. Va.

R. Hood Chatham, care Security Tire Co., Dallas, Tex.

Lenox C. Chew, 1530 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Orpha Arlington Chidester, ’10, Washington, D. C.

Joseph Chusid, ’20, 2108 Harrison Ave., Bronx, New
York City, N. Y.

A. M. Clark, ’02, Lewisburg, Tenn.

Edwin Johns Clark, ’01, Franklin St., Waco, Texas.

Seth Clarkson, ’20, care Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Ga.

Robert Scales Clary, ’14, Greensboro, N. C.

Wm. Rogers Clay, Jr., 158 West 73rd St., New York
City, N. Y.

James Dudley Clayton, 93, Lexington, Ky.

John H. Cleage, 134 Miss. Ave., North, Chattanooga,
‘Tennessee.

James Franklin Clemmons, Jr., 12, English, Ark.

Howard N. Clendening, ’08, Logan, W. Va.

Geo. W. Clover, ’14, formerly U. S. A.

John F. Coates, ’15, Wekiwa, Fla.

Kenneth R. Cobb, Jr., °13, 1340 31st St., N. W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

Wm. Westcott Cobb, ’22, University, Ala.

Ralph Oliver Cochran, ’97, College Park, Ga.

John Thomas Cock, ’75, Marshall, Texas.

Albert Nicholas Cocks, '16, 522 New York Ave., Nor-
folk, Va.

John Monroe Cole, ’10, 1813 Monroe St., Washington,
D..C.

Joseph Temple Cole, ’20, 157 Holbrook Ave., Danville,
Virginia. |

William A. Coleman, ’03, 238 Easton Ave., Detroit,
Michigan. |

Lawrence Marcus Collins, ’11, Youngstown, Ohio.

Wm. Andrews Collins, 92, 16th & Arapahoe Sts.,
Denver, Colo.

[45 ]

7. 0 8 A... Usa N

Regan Terrell Collins, ’24, El Dorado, Ark.

Samuel James Collinsgru, 92, Silver Spring, Md.

Daniel Gilbert Conant, °10, Baltimore, Md.

Michael James Connell, '05, Clarksburg, W. Va.

Thos. Lane Connella, Everett, Washington.

Geo. Logan Conner, ’28, 1559 E. 18th St., Brooklyn,
New York.

Haney Berlin Conner, 03, Chattanooga, Tenn.

John Woodhull Conover, ’04, 84 St. James Ave., Bos-
ton, Mass.

Francis Philip Conroy, ’22, 12 San Juline Apts., Jack-
sonville, Fla. |

John W. Cook, Jr., 1607 Lincoln St., Evanston, Il.

Charles M. Cooke, ’00, Harrison, Ark.

Donald G. Cooke, 701 Pacific Finance Co., Ames, Lowa.

Wm. Franklin Cooke, ’15, Clifton Forge, Va.

Joseph Benjamin Cooper, ’28, Elizabeth, N. J.

John M. Cooper, Huntington, W. Va.

Gerald Edward Corry, '20, 518 Hennen Bldg., New
Orleans, La.

T. C. Cover, ’21, Roanoke, Va.

Fred Sturdivant Covington, '26, 69 Blue Ridge Ave.,
Atlanta, Ga.

Julius Covington, ’26, 69 Blue Ridge Ave., Atlanta, Ga.

Douglas T. Cowart, ’21, 3108 Carolina St., Houston,
Texas.

Russell Lee Craft, "14, Roanoke, Va.

Geo. McChesney Craig, °19, Picardy, Md.

Geo. Samuel Craig, Craigsville, Va.

Sharpe Craig, ’10, Barberton, Ohio.

Chas. L. Cranford, ’10, Memphis, Tenn.

William Henry Crank, '88, Houston, Texas.

John S. Crawford, ’20, 1314 Quarrier St., Charleston,
W. Va.

Alexander McB. Crayton, ’22, 249 Calhoun St., An-
derson, S. C.

Alfred E. Creigh, ’22, Suite 312 Grand Valley Bank
Bldg., Grand Junction, Colo.

Carl E. Crockett, ’23, Woodman, Ky.

Charles John Crockett, ‘27, 315 James Bldg., Chattan-
ooga, Tenn.

J. Stewart Crockett, Sioux City, Iowa.

Wm. O. Croclett, 03, Wytheville, Va.

Noel Aldridge Cropp, ’00, Harrisonburg, Va.

Smith Cullom, Jr., 05, Miami, Fla.

Castle Frederick Cunningham, °19, Akron, Ohio.

Clarence Ray Cunningham, ’03, Clarksburg, W. Va.

Don Cunningham, ’17, Gassaway, Va.

Geo. Alfred Cunningham, Jr., 90, Augusta, Ga.

John Reid Cunningham, ’09, R. F. D. No. 1, Box 70,
Charleston, W. Va.

Thomas Richeson Cunningham, ’04, Buena Vista, Va.

Robert Mason Curtis, 06, care Peoples National Bank,
Orlando, Florida.

Dr. L. A. Cushman, ’20, 2132 Northeast 2nd St., Mi-
ami, Fla.

I

MiAuAeGA Zi he

Thomas Garrison Dailey, ’05, Box 99, Pawhuska, Okla.

James Alfred Danforth, ’14, Charleston, Mo.

Lee Daniel, *11, Tulsa, Okla.

William Percy Daniel, 15, Agricultural College, Miss.

Frederick M. Darnell, 1803 Herbert Ave., Memphis,
‘Tennessee.

Paul Evan Daugherty, '26, 505 N. Lancaster Ave., Dal-
las, Texas.

Joel Jackson Davenport, ’08, Dallas, Texas.

Carl Shaffer Davidson, °15, Cleveland, Ohio.

Gustave Davin, ’89, Cleveland, Ohio.

Charles E. Davis, 94, 611 First National Bank Bldg.,
Miami, Fla.

Clyde Raymond Davis, ‘03, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Edward Griffith Davis, Chicago, Il.

Edward Lee Davis, ’03, Chattanooga, ‘Tenn.

G. M. Davis, 6903 5th St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

James Smizer Davis, '14, 1221 Rosedale Ave., Chi-
cago, IIl. ;

Squire Sanford Davis, ’05, Fall River, Mass.

William Mitchell Davis, ‘03, Chattanooga, Tenn.

William Richardson Davis, Lansford, S. C.

W. A. Dawson, ’20, Miami, Fla.

Henry Franch Day, °13, 521 34th St., Norfolk, Va.

James Ozro Day, ’12, Decatur, Miss.

Clarence Calaway Deal, ‘23, 421 6th St., N. W., Wash.
ington, D. C.

Edward Wolfe DeArmon, 26 Ponce De Leon Ave.,
Atlanta, Ga.

 

fy
Vv

STUDENTS VISIT N. Y. PRESS

An insight on metropolitan newspaper metliods
featured the third annual Journalism Department field
trip during the Easter holidays, when seven represen-
tatives of Washington and Lee studied the newspaper
situation in New York.

The field trip proper was confined to Monday
when the students visited Editor and Publisher, the
United Press Associations, the New York Stock Kx-
change, and the Wall Street Journal. The United
Press was host to the students for luncheon on Monday.

Several students visited the night court Monday.
Others attended the theatre, Two or three visited New
York newspapers.

Commenting on the trip, Mr. Mapel, director of
Journalism at Washington and Lee, said:

“We are happy to be able to take the students to
cities on field trips. It is impossible to put across facts
they learn there in classroom work.”

 

Herbert G. Smith, ’17, is Commonwealth's At-
torney of Newport News, Va.

 

A. Merryman Gilbert, ’19, Insurance and Invest-
ment business, Martinsburg, W. Va.

[ 46 |

 

 

= H& A ap ee
ATHLETIC YEAR SUCCESSFUL AT W. AND L.
Continued from page 36

ed the season in a tie for second place in the Tri-State
League.

Monogram letters were awarded to Leigh Wil-
liams, J. Jarrett, W. F. Methvin, H. T. Fitzgerald, E.
N. Cross, K. R. Routon, H. J. Burke, T. O. Cremin, FE.
S, Richardson, J. Richardson, B. R. Wilson, W. Mat-
tox, M. N. Thibodeau, E. N. Stapleton, L. F. Violet
and W. Owen, manager.

RESULTS oF 1931 SEASON

Georgetown ..............00.. QO Washington and Lee 8
Bridgewater ............:.... QO Washington and Lee 12
SAV IGINE 5s. ses cdenearnet 3. Washington and Lee |
North Carolina ............ 2 Washington and Lee 8
North Carolina State .. 1 Washington and lee: 6
ANG |”. :.0sc.sa ei -% 2 Washington and Lee 9
North Carolina .............. 8 Washington and Lee 7
William and Mary ........ 5 Washington and Lee 6
ee TS. ck 7 Washington and Lee 6
RVING. Acdiasicreoa tt «ne 10 Washington and Lee 6
ee 7 Washington and Lee 9
ee . Suis55 abeniececaae 9 Washington and Lee 6
North Carolina State .. 2 Washington and Lee 5
es; Us 25,. reas iseenccea edd 2 Washington and Lee 8
NSS 755: glu Ri tin c glace Be 1 Washington and Lee 9

SUCCESSFUL IN WRESTLING L

After blanking the Richmond Y. M. C. A. and the
Army, 34-0, the Washington and Lee wrestling team
continued the rest of the season without losing a meet.
Coach Mathis turned out one of the best teams that has
ever wrestled at Washington and Lee.

With victories over the Army and Richmond, the
Blue and White grapplers won from North Carolina
State, 28-6. Davidson College next came to Lexing-
ton but was easily defeated, 31-3. The Blue and White
matmen traveled to Blacksburg a few weeks later where
they turned back the Gobblers, 25-5. Duke was the
last meet on the scehdule but the Generals found little
trouble in defeating them, 24-8.

Washington and Lee was awarded three places on
All-Southern Wrestling team, Mathis at 155
pounds, Tilson at 175 pounds and Mitchell at unlimit-
ed. The General matmen also gained five berths on
the All-State Wrestling team. 115 pounds was giv-
en to Evans, 135 to Osterman, 145 to Thomas, 155 to
Mathis, 175 to Tilson and unlimited to Mitchell. “Tex”
lilson was awarded the wrestling trophy by Coach
Mathis for having the most number of points at the
end of the season. He had a perfect score of thirty
Points by winning every one of his matches.

Next season the Army grapplers will journey to
€xington to meet Washington and Lee. The Army
team is granted one trip during their season and it will

the

I

I

eA ws A 2 oe oe
be their first appearance in the South. The meet was
scheduled through the cooperation of Coach Mathis
who agreed to give three hundred dollars if the stu-
dents would pay one dollar to witness the match instead
of the usual ten cents.

Monograms were awarded to E. H. Evans, H. B.
Abramson, J. K. Osterman, C. E. Thomas, W. H. Ma-
this, J. L. Wright, W. W. Mattox, C. EK. Tilson, A.

H. Woffard, P. Mitchell and Manager W. T. Sale.
RESULTS OF THE MEETS

Richmond Y. M. C. A. O Washington and Lee 34
ATR i SV als QO Washington and Lee 34
North Carolina State . 6 Washington and Lee 25
Davidectaih hd. ik 3 Washington and Lee 31
V iBotancn eee 5 Washington and Lee 25
Did: felicia ais, 8 Washington and Lee 24

Boxers BEaAt MARYLAND TWICE

At the close of the 1930-31 boxing season, the
team had won four out of six meets. The Washington
and lee mittmen had defeated Maryland twice and tak-
en meets from St. Johns and North Carolina State.
They lost to V. P. I. and Duke by the same score, 5-2.

Opening the season with a victory, the boxers out-
classed North Carolina State and won five out of the
seven matches. A few weeks later the mittmen jour-
neyed to College Park where they easily trimmed Mary-
land by the same score. On February 7 another trip
was made to Blacksburg where the team suffered its first
defeat of the year losing to V. P. I., 2-5. The follow-
ing week St. Johns visited Lexington and the General
boxers won, 4-3. After traveling to Durham, North
Carolina, the mittmen lost their second meet of the sea-
son by a score of 5-2. The last meet of the year was
a return meet with Maryland in Lexington. | Wash-
ington and kee won after several close bouts, 4-3.

The team had been coached by W. E. Malone,
who was spending his last year with the varsity boxers.
Next season “Tex” Tilson will take his place. Tilson
came to Washington and Lee this spring with Jimmy
DeHart to assist in spring football practice. Before
coming to Lexington, he was boxing coach at Duke
University.

The following men received monograms: R.. T.
Robertson, Captain S. J. Sloshberg, J. Srulowitz, R. L.
McKinney, W. J. Pound, E. H. Bacon, G. W. Hewson,
and S$. Mundy.

RESULTS OF THE YEAR

North Carolina §S. .......... 2 Washington and Lee 5

IRIE isicnelincs cere 2 Washington and Lee 5

MSE ie Bi aca Basi token gail 5 Washington and Lee 2

SN PR chive ctr lina 3 Washington and Lee 4

DR a ns ays + Meshal 5 Washington and Lee 2

MAIN oo. oks chin se pec hok 3 Washington and Lee 4
[ 47 ]

. 4 ¢£ A 4A Dea ON
Srate Track Meet At W. & L.

After meeting some of the strongest teams in the
South, the Washington and Lee trackmen won two
meets and dropped three. Four men were sent to the
Penn relays on April 25 and at the end of the season
Washington and Lee was host to the State Track and
Field Meet.

Opposing the strong Duke track team in the first
conflict of the year, the Blue and White runners were
defeated by a score of 74-52. Shortly after Easter,
Maryland University traveled to Lexington and was
set back in a steady downpour of rain, 93-34. The
next meet was scheduled with William and Mary at
Williamsburg. ‘The Generals took several of the main
events but lost, 66 5-6 to 59 1-6. On April 27, the
University of North Carolina brought a strong team to
Wilson Field and nosed out the Generals 64 2-3 to
61 1-3. Every event was close and the result of the
meet was not known until the end. The Blue and
White trackmen came back in the last meet of the year
and defeated Richmond, 103-23.

In Virginia’s Big Four track meet held at Lexing-
ton, Washington and Lee took second place scoring
53 11-12 points to Virginia’s 65 1-3. V. M. I. was
third with 25 3-4 and V. P. I. last with 19.

Monogram men were: S. G. Edmonds, Kk. Johnson,
Ray Ade, W. B. Sheppard, Leigh Williams, J. J. Brod-
erick, N. M. Gladden, H. R. Mahler, C. E. Duncan, §$.
Saunders, IT’. M. Curtis, M. P. Rivers, F. E. Cook, E.
L. Stevens, F. R. Baily, R. B. Fangboner, G. A. Speer,
E. Finklestein, G. B. Craddock, J. C. Armour, A. W.
Phelps, and G. A. Fleece, Manager.

SEASON’S RESULTS

aS ise tl Mss 74 We antl... csacus 52
Maryland ................ 34 Ws 900 Aan teed 92
William and Mary 66 5-6 W. and L.......... 59 1-6
North Carolina ...... GR A238 |: Be MMA L Age, =9-sr08s 61 1-3
Richmond _............... 23 WY .. BIN iecidin net 103

TANKMEN Win ALL MEETS

Outclassing all opponents, the Blue and White
varsity swimmers passed through their season without
a defeat.

Taking the first meet from Duke University by
a score of 52-8, the General swimmers traveled to Wil-
liam and Mary and repeated the act. The meet was
closer than the first but the Generals won, 37-29. ‘La?
final encounter was against the University of Virginia
in Doremus gymnasium. ‘The Washington and Lee
tankmen kept up their good form and sent the Wahoos
home with a 40-20 defeat. At the Southern Confer-
ence Swimming tournament, Washington and Lee gain-
ed third place.

Monograms were awarded to: E. W. Stapleton, J.
C. Harris, A. Rudes, W. H. Moreland, E. Richmond,

I

MiA GA 2 1 See

A. D. Zachary, J. P. Walker, Jr., M. P. Rivers, H. M.
Weinstein, manager H. Walton. A major monogram —
was awarded to D. E. Nichols

TANKMEN RECORDS

NEN .s 100 tsthhytradanghacs vag 8 Washington and Lee 52
William and Mary ....... 29 Washington and Lee 37 —
MMI KL 03-55 ncpghcnine 20 Washington and Lee 40

NETMEN TRAVEL NORTH

Opening the season with a Northern trip, the
Washington and Lee tennis team dropped three meets.
They gained one victory defeating Maryland, 7-2.

Losing meets to Georgetown, Pennsylvania and
Lehigh, the Blue and White netmen returned to the
winning column setting back Roanoke College, 8-1.
Davidson College next journeyed to Lexington and —
won by one point, 5-4. The last meet of the season —
was at V. P. I. The Generals won by a score of 5-4.

The following men were presented with minor —
monograms: R. I. Shields, E. J. Wilson, J. M. Gra- —
ham, H. J. Cox, J. S. Snyder, M. N. Pilley, F. T.9
Bready and F. M. Barron, manager.

RESULTS OF THE SEASON

mnt wohre N DY

Georgetown .........::see 7 Washington and Lee
NORONE 55. s.jcsaktcgee chaps, 2 Washington and Lee
Pennsylvania. ...............+.. 8 Washington and Lee
DPN OV oa ctanssise «ie 5 Washington and Lee
PONEINOE Sis xs psr o> cones 1 Washington and Lee
PIR as cece screed 5 Washington and Lee
Wee. das iin eae 4 Washington and Lee

GoLFErRS WIN ONE

Inaugurating a golf team for the first time in sev-
eral years, the Washington and Lee team won one out
of its four meets.

Duke University was the first team to register a
victory over the Generals. ‘The final score was 9 1-2 |
to 8 1-2. The Big Blue linksmen met North Carolina —
University in the second match of the year but lost, —
17-1. William and Mary was the first team to fall at
the hands of the Generals, losing 15 to 3. The Gener-
als dropped their last meet to Richmond Medical Col-
lege at Richmond, 15 1-2 to 2 1-2.

Minor monograms were awarded to: C. H. Me-
Millan, W. B. Donham, S. H. Cowin, J. Houston, R.
Russel, C. H. Munger and P. D. Sharp.

RESULTS OF THE SEASON

NN rT i ce wea be Bae ee a 8 1-2
North Carolina ...... 17 Rs MEME Boje Vas2--n0en 1
William and Mary 3 VV «EME: Lise 5s- cm 15

Rich. : Med. Col. .... 15 1-2. W. and L.. ..........

a eet i
a

Claude R. Hill, ’17, is a prominent business man
of Oak Hill, Va., and was recently re-elected President —
of the Board of Education of that town.

21-2.

[ 48 ]

 

 

= H E A “ao UU? Ee Ns mene lume Rk! ZR CR eS
BIRTHS Peters, Lavinder, Peters & Rouse, attorneys-at-

Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Parks Davis, ’15, are the
arents of a daughter, Edith Derbyshire Davis, born
in Witchita Falls, Texas, Sunday, March 29. Mr.
Davis was freshman football coach here for nine years.
He left last year to take a business position in ‘Texas.
Davis graduated from Washington and Lee in law, and
was first a volunteer assistant in athletics. In De-
Hart’s second year here Davis was made Freshmen
coach and continued in this position until he left here.

Mr. and Mrs. Warren “Tex” Tilson, ’26, have a
daughter, born in Durham, N. C., Friday, March 27.
“Tex” Tilson was a football, boxing, and wrestling
star while at Washington and Lee. When DeHart
went to Duke, Tilson went with him as the Blue
Devils’ assistant football coach. Tilson was also presi-
dent of the Athletic council and of the student body
while here. With the return of DeHart, Tilson is
coming back here as assistant football coach, and coach

of boxing.

Mr. and Harold Edward Slanker, are the proud
parents of a son, born April 4th.

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Gilliam, ’19, are the proud
parents of a new daughter.

 

PERSONALS

C. H. Halsey, ’22, was married April 19, 1930, to
Katrina Wittick of Paris, Ill. Has a baby boy born
April 20, 1931, named Charles Henry Halsey the
Fourth. Practiced law for three or four years after
getting out of school and for the past five years has
been in Chicago supervising fire and theft claims for
the Lumberman’s Mutual Casualty Co. His address
is 4750 Sheridan Road, Chicago, II.

Joe T. Lykes, ’09, is Vice-President of Lykes
Bros., Inc., Shippers, 17 Battery Place, New York.
He is the active President of the New York Alumni
Association.

Joe G. (Rosy) Glass, ’16, is practicing law in San
Antonio, ‘Texas. His address is 1101 Majestic Bldg.
He was formerly located at Cuero, Texas, being City
Attorney there.

Tom M. Bemis, '24, has recently been awarded a
Prize by the New York Life Insurance Company, for

Selling $60,000 worth of insurance for that Company
In five months.

Herbert G. Peters, Jr., ’17, member of the firm of

law, Bristol, Va.

L. V. Gradt, ’27, has moved from Jonesboro,
Ark., to Little Rock, Ark. His address is 541 Hall
Building.

James C. Ambler, ’17, formerly superintendent of
Fauquier County Schools is now with Ginn & Co., pub-
lishers.

Sorsby Jemison, ’09, is assistant vice-president of
the Young & Van Supply Co., of Birmingham, Ala.

J. Snyder Bohannon, LL.B., ’06, is Assistant Solic-
itor, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.

George Hugh Lee, ’00, is Vice-President and Gen-
eral Manager of the Pittsburgh Screw and Bolt Co.

Edward M. Craig, Jr., 14, formerly of Hickory,
N. C., is now living at Jackson Heights, N. Y.

Harry P. Burns, ’20, is a salesman for the Corti-
celli Silk Co., 136 Madison Ave., New York.

Fred M. Bailey, ’20, is connected with the Keno-
va-Huntington Land Co., Huntington, W. Va.

John L,. Campbell, ’11, is Trust Officer for the
Rockbridge National Bank of Lexington, Va.

Jimmie Rule, ’29, is with Tucker, Hunter, Du-
lin & Co., 500 Exchange Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

Walter H. Wilcox, ’29, is now with the Cumber-
land Mills, at Cumberland Mills, Maine.

Russel Wine, ’12, is Assistant District Attorney
for the U. S. Western District of ‘Texas.

Kk. Glenn Craig, 17, is practicing his profession as
a surgeon in San Francisco, Calif.

Tommy Graves, ’27 is County Attorney of DeWitt
County, Texas, Cuero, ‘Texas.

Edward Aull, ’23, is teaching at Phillips High
School, Birmingham, Ala.

C. H. Wilson, ’21, is practicing his profession of
dentistry in Danville, Va.

J. C. Henderson, ’24, is in the real estate business
in Montgomery, W. Va.

[ 49 |

eee A @& Weegee N

Carl B. Knight, ’26, is in the newspaper business
at Big Stone Gap, Va.

Charles Kupfer, 18, is a member of the firm of
Maurice, Simeon & Kupfer, attorneys, 149 Broadway,
New York.

Roger J. Haler, ’28, is with E. I. DuPont de
Nemours, Inc., Chemical Products Division, Waynes-
boro, Va.

Jas. O. Watson, °14, is with Bleachland Develop-
ment Co., Vero Beach, Fla.

John R. VanBuren, ’26, is living at Hoosick Falls,
New York.

J. M. Barker, ’07, with Security Investment Co.,
Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

T. Sheldon Jones, ’20, is practicing law in Hunting-
ton, W. Va.

W. R. Knebelkamp, ’21, is Secretary of the Louis-
ville Baseball Club of the American Association.

Roger W. Winbourne, ’11, is with the Carolina
Stores, Inc., Headquarters at Lenoir, N. C.

 

PRINAIERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS

PERSONAL STATIONERY
Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

I

M A GA Z Tt Ne

 

 

This Issue of
The Alumni Magazine

Was printed in the
Journalism Laboratory
at Washington and
Lee.

All reading matter}
with the exception of}
large headlines ‘was
produced by the Mer- }
genthaler Linotype,

Model 14.

The text of the mag-]
azine is set in 10-point
Ronaldson Old Style,
known for its legi- |
bility. Large headlines |
are hand-set in 36-]
point Garamond. |

The five-colored]
cover of the magazine |
also is a product of]
the laboratory, which
for business purposes }
is known as

The Virginian Publishing Coll

Incorporated

 

[ 50 |

 

 

 

 

re:

 

se ‘ .
’ . ce
* ~~
‘ .
‘ 7
7 . SO»
. 2
4 ’
;
Z >
? - “a
-
- ‘ “
é ra ‘ ;
« ’ . io
.
,
« .
.
>
«
* J .
.
.
. =
‘ 4
. - © *
« ‘ ;
. ? e -
“J
7 > ah
Sad x
¢
‘ ”
é 4
’
fh
’
.

 

FOOTBALESE

FOLLOW THE GENERALS

THROUGH THEIR 1931 SCHEDULE™®

 

 

Sept. 26 Hampden-Sidney , Lynchburg
Oct -3 Davidson. . . Lexington
Oct. 10 Kentucky . Lexington, Ky.
Oct. 17 W.Virginia . Charleston, W.Va.

Oct. 24 Virginia HOP os See Seton

Coming

Oct. 31 William and Mary . Norfolk

MoV. EI... OC Bigee Pending
Nov. 14 Princeton . . . Princeton
Nov. 2t Maryland . . College Park
Nov.28 Duke. . . .-. Lexington

—_

 

 

Write Capt. Dick Smith for Reservations —

- Boost Your Alma Mater7

