     

 

AZINE

Rg ite Of _ i yy

—_

7
ee nee

y Ur a

; 4 e;
=) q a of ; a . : oe
, ; @ » ‘ ‘ : iy i‘ i ;
oy . ’ enact hs bk
L 7 v a ow d . - ¢ ” t ‘ 4%, * , F J <

 

 

 

 

 

Do You Like
The Alumni Magazine?

we

And if you don’t like it, why?
Seriously, though, the editors of
your magazine want to know
what you think of their efforts.

Show this issue to one of your
friends and ask him to sub-
scribe —You probably know an
alumnus who has “always want-
ed The Alumni Magazine.”

Any suggestions—brickbats or
orchids—are always welcome
(so long as the brickbats aren't
tossed too hard).

oe

Get a New Subscriber to The Alumni Magazine!

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va,

Arkansas Association
James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little
Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia aps
Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland
L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia
C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

John Culley, 422 Hamilton St., Evanston, Ill.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association’
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla,

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Florida National Bank
Building.
Lynchburg, Virginia
Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.
Louisville, Kentucky
E. A. Dodd, Louisville Trust Building.

Memphis, Tennessee
John K. Speed, 1159 Linden Avenue,

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana

Norton Wisdom, Whitney Bank Building.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Stuart Sanders, Sanders Bros. Paint Co.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Rockingham County Association
W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California

Bryan Bell, Assoc. Press, 1243 Trenton St,
St. Louis, Missouri

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National

Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.

Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. XI JANUARY-FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 3

 

PIC sss Sek ied Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor. RicHARD PowELL CarTEr, 1929

Ss

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PP OSMOME EH his <5 cook ....Dr. J. W. CLtaupy, 1909
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
Secretary... ........ Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
FRCOSUTOP BN cena) M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powe tt, 1929
CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930

Ki WittiiaMs, 1915

 

Contents for January-February 1936

 

PAGE
re TCRER Ne Be ances oi eheot sto ob La A calcaneus leet AE = ooh g
Henry Boley Writes of Lexingtom........0........20....cugeeseci seeds. +
"FRACUY* VORrS OF PMC Y Pemeee es Fees as aes Sate
Sesquipedalian Bombast.............0........ phisishiahe ea icarvatisde s+ aaa ae
A Yell, and the Ring-tum Phi.......... Teese As tee, ae cane
Olympic Wrestling at W. and L., March 20-21.........0000...... 12
Nine Basketball Games—Nine Victories...............000...000068. 13
Local Alumni #ssociation Notes:..;.:..2::c65..0a8.... ae 17

Cone IN EME ce NA is his icc eas ee ee 21

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vs e Toe
ana
ood

i y :
| " ro ya weet AYE PANT PPR,

™

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Four-Point Remodeling Program

(The President’s Page)

NE OF THE most important steps in the recent his-
tory of the University was taken by the Board of
Trustees in its meeting on January 20. This plan
contemplates the preservation of certain of our most prec-
ious resources and the enlargement of certain
essential facilities. It is a four-point program.
eae

The first feature of the new plan calls for
fireproofing the Washington College group.
The actual work of protecting this historic
group of structures will not in any sense change
the outside walls or the external appearance.
The process includes remodeling all the interior
and setting up steel columns inside the present
walls so that the structural hazard of weight
will be reduced. But since it is just as econom-
ical to re-design a new interior as to replace it
in the present form, every foot of space within the build-
ings has been arranged to give maximum efficiency in
terms of the modern needs. Administrative units will
move to the central section, the historic part of the Uni-
versity. Other sections of the remodeled structure will
be occupied by the Liberal Arts departments, particularly
Knglish, Mathematics, all the languages, and journalism.

ae,

The second step in the preservation of the institu-
tion’s treasures will come in the way of fireproofing the
stack rooms of the library. All of the books in the gen-
eral library are at present subject to hazard of fire. The
loss of these books would represent far more than a fi-
nancial injury. Many of the volumes themselves are ir-
replaceable and others have the greatest possible historic
or sentimental significance. No effort will be made at the
time to bring the general library building in conformity
with the modern pattern of efficiency; this step must
wait for ampler resources. But we shall know that the
books themselves will not be destroyed by fire.

lee

The third step in the program calls for the enlarge-
ment of Newcomb Hall in order to complete the ade-
quacy of instructional facilities. The back wing of this
building will be re-designed to correspond in general to
the back wing of the new Tucker Hall. The front sec-
tion of the building will be rearranged with a view to
instructional needs. The new section will be entirely
freproof but the present plan does not include fireproof-
ing the front part of Newcomb Hall.

 

The fourth feature of the comprehensive plan as
adopted by the Board calls for the construction of a
Student Union, somewhat like a large fraternity house
that will serve the social needs of the entire student body
and will represent the activity center for all
student interest. There has long been urgent
necessity for such a building, and now that the
remodeling of the academic buildings pushes
out certain student features established there,
the importance of the Union becomes a matter
of first magnitude. In this Student Union there
will be the Co-operative Store, rooms for the
literary societies, and certain offices of student
organizations, all of which are now in the
Washington College building; in the Student
Union will also be the recreation room and the
offices for Christian Work which are now in
Reid Hall. In addition to these functions already estab-
lished, other offices, like more spacious game rooms and
certain sections for the serving of refreshments will be
included in the new Student Union.

It will be located upon the site of the present alumni
building (which is just about ready to fall down), one
of the most convenient spots. The alumni offices them-
selves will be located in the new administration unit in
the center of the Washington College group.

“Sh Ie.

It is expected that work upon this new project will
commence by the first of April. The matter of cost can
not be absolutely determined until the work is under way,
but a safe estimate indicates that the total expenditure
will be approximately $250,000.

a Se:

When this plan has been carried through, practically
all of the instructional needs of the University will have
been satisfied in most effective fashion, except for two
departments, geology and biology. These two sciences
are now in Washington College; for the time being they
will be divided between the Chemistry building and Reid
Hall. The next resource for our instruction should be
one more building, probably squarely behind ‘Tucker
Hall as Reid Hall now stands behind Newcomb Hall,
to house these two departments. When this goal is reach-
ed the facilities for instruction at Washington and Lee
will be entirely adequate.

K * 2K
(Continued on page 10)

[ 3 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Henry Boley Writes of Lexington

F YOU'RE an alumnus—and it is to be properly

supposed that you are—you know Henry Boley,

whose book store is about as much a part of Lex-
ington as the two schools that make the town educa-
tionally famous.

 

You know, too, that Henry Boley is an authority on
local history, and that he has
been friends with men who
have played important roles in
the more recent history of
Washington and Lee. He has
been a friend, too, of Lexing-
ton men who have been iden-
tified with political as well as
educational endeavours.

So who could be _ better
qualified to write a book on
Lexington, which should lend
itself so easily as subject mat-
ter for a book?

That’s what Henry Boley
has done—written what is de-
scribed as an authoritative ac-
count of Lexington, which he
titles “Lexington in Old Vir-
ginia.”” No copies of it have
been made available to The
Alumni Magazine, and we have
only Mr. Boley’s word and a
publisher’s leaflet to tell what’s
in the book, but that has been
sufficient to stir our interest.
Publication date is March 1.

Mr. Boley has been modest enough when asked about
his book, but he admits that it is the result of years of
work, including detailed research, surveys of the Lex-
ington area, and conferences with those closely acquaint-
ed with the history of Rockbridge county. We don’t
know whether it’s strictly historical or whether it’s ro-
mantically written around the wealth of memories and
traditions centering in Lexington.

PORE Ree

:

According to the announcement, the book starts with
the early Indian history of the Lexington area and traces
the development of religious and educational movements.
Three chapters are devoted to Washington and Lee,
while other sections treat of the Franklin Society, the
entrance of Jackson into the Lexington scene, the Vir-

 

Henry Boley, Author

ginia Military Institute, and the death of Lee. One chap-
ter is titled “Old Stories—Quaint Ads,” and another has
for its heading merely the one word “Newspapers.”

The book promises to be extremely interesting for all
who have ever known Lexington. Here’s what the pub-
lication announcement has to say in part about ‘‘Lex-
ington in Old Virginia” :

“One of the most interest-
ing parts of Mr. Boley’s nar-
rative is devoted to an account
of the Scotch-Irish, the first
settlers in Lexington and the
Valley. Out of the Province
of Ulster, where Presbyterian
Scots had settled in the time
of Cromwell’s invasion of Ire-
land, came in the early decades
of the eighteenth century a
tide of immigration to Amer-
ica. These Irish Scots, impell-
ed by the harsh treatment on
account of their religion, be-
gan after the siege of London-
derry an exodus into Pennsyl-
vania and thence into the Val-
ley of Virginia. They were at-
tracted by the accounts which
they heard of the invigorating
climate, fertile soil, and pure
water of the Great Valley.
Throughout its picturesque ter-
ritory of mountain and _ field
and clear-flowing streams are
places that were first occupied by these men and women
whose descendants became famous in the history of
America. From this vigorous and unassuming population
sprang senators and vice-presidents of the Union and
governors of great States.

“Those who have tasted of the charm of the old
town will welcome these sketches, covering the founding
of Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute,
with biographic sketches of many associated with Lex-
ington who have left an impression upon the pages of
history: frontiersmen, Indian fighters, soldiers, states-
men, producers of literature, educators, ministers, and
inventors. The connection of Lee and Jackson with Lex-
ington is given in a delightful manner.”

(ad

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Thirty Years of Fancy Dress Balls

By RicHarp POWELL CARTER

and Lee students, garbed in fancy dress costume, served to do more in establishing it as not merely “another
took their dates to a private party given by the little costume affair,” but as a high mark in the social life of
lady who today is still ‘‘the belle of the campus’—Miss the University and of the South. Time was, not so far
Annie Jo White. “Miss Annie,” as she is now back in the distance, when a pair of tuxedo
known, was librarian at the University at trousers, a red handkerchief about the neck,
the time of that ball. The fancy dress and white shirt open at the throat
party was a very fine affair, she re- might constitute a Fancy Dress cos-
calls, and everyone had a good tume. But no more. Most of the
time. The costumes were not so costumes at Fancy Dress today
elaborate, perhaps, but they are fairly accurate reproduc-
were fancy enough. tions from the period being
represented. Decorations for
« Doremus Gymnasium now
are handled by profession-
al decorators, and handled
well. Costumes are or-
dered, as in past years,
from professional cos-
tumers, and the dance
authorities now insist
that well designed cos-
tumes be worn by all.
Custom still calls for
faculty members and
honored guests to at-
tend in formal attire in
lieu of costumes. Stu-
dents and others attend-
ing the ball to only wit-
ness the figure this year
were admitted to the balcony
only if in formal dress.

Spe DECADES ago a small group of Washington The dignity attached to the ball in recent years has

 
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 

4

On the night of January
31, just before this issue
of The Alumni Magazine
went to press, “Miss An-
nie’ sat as an honored
guest and as one of the
chaperones at Washing-
ton and Lee’s thirtieth
annual costume party,
the direct outgrowth of
her own small affair.
That night she sat and
watched princes, queens
and smartly clad cour-
tiers of merry Old eng-
land parade by in a fig-
ure that probably has
never been surpassed on
any American dance floor,
especially in Fancy Dress.

‘cr

 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
  

‘

lhe boys took the party
right out of my hands and
have been carrying out the fancy
dress idea ever since I started it,”
the former librarian remarked some
time ago. “But I didn’t mind,” she
added, “because I still get as much fun
out of it.” Beloved by the students, “Miss An-
nie” never misses a Fancy Dress ball. Nor any big cam- countries, from many far places, have made the journey
pus event, for that matter. to Lexington to “see Fancy Dress.” Alumni who come

Every year since 1907 Washington and Lee students back marvel at the authenticity of the reproduction of
have staged their Fancy Dress party, a party that has famous periods or events of history.

Princes and kings, prin-
cesses and queens, clowns and
soldiers—all manner of characters
have danced on the floor of Wash-
ington and Lee’s graceful Doremus
gymnasium in the past years of Fancy
Dress. Visitors from the west coast, from other

 

developed into one of the most famous collegiate so- The thirtieth annual Fancy Dress this month cli-
cial affairs. Each year the ball has grown more elaborate maxed brilliantly the three decades of the dance.
and more colorful. On the night of January 31 “Queen Elizabeth” held

fo]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

court in Doremus gymnasium, honoring the return of
the romantic “Earl of Essex” from one of his successful
campaigns in the wars that raged almost constantly in
the time of Elizabeth. Just at ten o’clock that evening
trumpets blew and courtiers arrived on the scene while
visitors and students looked on. Then the “queen’—
Miss Bessie Morton Goode of Dinwiddie, Va.—entered
and seated herself on the make-believe throne in the
make-believe audience hall, which was a _ reproduction
of a hall in the royal pal-
ace of Elizabeth. Famous
people of the Elizabethian
era, portrayed by students
and their girls, were an-
nounced by the “Lord
High Chamberlain,” who
for the evening was Lewis
MecMurran of Newport
News, Va., well known
for his ‘Troubadour work
at the University.

Finally the “Lord High
Chamberlain” announced
the “Earl of Essex,’’ who
was portrayed by Glenn
Shively of Chambersburg,
Pa., president of Fancy
Dress of 1936.’The “Earl,”
accompanied by a group
of students portraying men
of that day who went with
the Earl of Essex on his
triumphant as well as his
disappointing journeys, en-
tered and was received by
the queen-for-the-evening.
With him he brought a
great old war
chest, “loot from a gal-

Spanish

leon of old,” which he of-
fered his queen.

Together, then, “Queen
“The Earl

‘spoils of war” to those in the figure. That is, they gave

Elizabeth” and of Essex” distributed the

out favors from the old war chest.

That, in brief, was the figure of the thirtieth annual
Fancy Dress ball.

Mrs. L. J. Desha, wife of Dr. Desha of the depart-
ment of chemistry at Washington and Lee, directed and
planned the figure in co-operation with Mr. Shively. For
the past several years she has been taking a deep interest
in the ball.

The Fancy Dress set of dances this year consisted of

|

 

Miss Goode and Mr. Shively

6

two formals in addition to the costume ball itself. ‘Thurs-
day evening, January 30, the annual Junior Prom formal
was led by Billy Wilson of Cumberland, Md., president
of the junior class, with Miss Margery Muncaster, also
of Cumberland. Mr. Wilson, a Kappa Alpha, will be
senior manager of football next year.

Saturday night following Fancy Dress a_ formal
dance was sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa. ‘Two
dansants were given, one Friday afternoon and another
Saturday afternoon. Kay
Kyser’s orchestra played
for all of the dances.

The Saturday night
formal, a recent innova-
tion, this year proved to
be one of the best dances
given at Washington and
Lee for some time, and
certainly it was in keep-
ing with the Junior Prom
and Fancy Dress itself.
Decorators who had trans-
formed the gymnasium in-
to “Queen Elizabeth's au-
dience hall’ went to work
immediately after Fancy
Dress and removed all
coats-of-arms, the ‘throne’
and several other “Eliza-
bethian aspects of the
night before, leaving the
walls and the ceiling cov-
ered much the same as
they were the evening be-
fore. The effect was ex-
cellent, with the result that
the O.D.K. dance
staged in fine style.

Typographical difficul-
ties made it inadvisable to
try to insert an underline
beneath the picture on the
first page of this story. Perhaps no identification was

Was

necessary, but here it is anyway—the picture is a recent

one of **Miss Annie.”

 

In practically all parts of the United States there
has been “plenty of weather’ this winter, so a word
about snow and sleet in Lexington might not be inap-
propriate. Since December snows have transformed the
campus with its new law building into a scene that would
delight the hearts of all alumni—the cover of this issue
shows the library as it looked in a recent snow storm.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Sesquipedalian Bombast

By WituiaAM B. BAGBEY
Student in Journalism, Washington and Lee

+

HEN ON August 10, 1809, ten Washington Acad-
emy students under the chairmanship of John D.
Paxton resolved “to form themselves into a society to be
called the Graham Society of Washington Academy,”
they could not know that the organization which they
were founding would be in existence a century and a
quarter later. They could not foresee the brilliant fu-
ture in store for several of that group, nor the long and
influential existence of the society which they were
forming—a society which has at the present the name
‘“Graham-Lee.”
Signing the constitution when reported on September
8, 1809, were: John D. Paxton, Edward C. Carrington,
James W. Paxton, Gustavus A. Jones, John P. Wilson,
Randolph Ross, William C. Preston, Uel Wilson and
Joseph S. Brown. It is believed that the name of Pow-
hatan Ellis was omitted through accident.
Of this group General Edward C. Carrington at-

tained distinction as an officer in the War of 1812. Two
of his sons were educated at Washington College. Pow-
hatan Ellis, soldier, senator from Mississippi, and min-
ister to Mexico, can be considered as a charter member.
The Reverend John D. Paxton, one of the signers also,
moved to Kentucky, where he wrote a book against
slavery which must have made him very popular. Wil-
liam C. Preston was United States Senator from South
Carolina for eight years and later president of South
Carolina College.

We are indebted to Mr. Preston for inspiring a short
sketch in theHistorical Papers of Washington and Lee
by William Henry Ruffner which is somewhat descrip-
tive of the type of oratory in vogue in the early nine-
teenth century. About thirty years after the founding of
the Graham Society Senator Preston visited Lexington
and was invited to address his old society:

Continuing from the Historical Papers—“The Gra-

 

 

 

Pat oe «is

= ae:

 

 

 

 

>
=
*)

~
re

~~

as

a

ae

A . ME ~~ ws
eat
uel a ;

 

 

The above rare print shows Washington and Lee in 1883

eee

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ham Hall and ante-chamber were packed by a general
assemblage. The distinguished visitor was received by a
speech from our ‘crack’ orator J. Horace Lacy. After
which Mr. Preston sent a quiet stream of magnetism
through his audience for half an hour, which made some
of us forget whether we were in the body or out of the
body ; and yet when I tried the next day to write down
the substance of what he said I found it was chiefly .. .
substantial advice to young men such as we had often
heard before, but never so well said. His exordium, how-
ever, consisted of euphemistic though evidently sincere
expressions of pleasure and good wishes in meeting his
old society, and he proceeded to give an account of its
origin, and of the clear and affectionate remembrance in
which he had always held it. He said that not long be-
fore, he and Powhatan Ellis, minister to Mexico, sitting
in the Senate chamber, had talked of the time when
they two ‘with eleven others’ had organized the Graham
Society. (Note contradiction of number of organizers. )

“Mr. Preston then spoke of the advantages of such
a society, and advised the members to make the best
possible use of these fleeting opportunities. Much often
depended on the ability to think on one’s legs, and some-
times in the midst of a dense and brawling assembly,
and here was the place to learn it. He dwelt on the im-
portance of hard work in order to success in anything.
I wrote down these as his very words:

“*Were I again to go over my life, my first work
would be to build a temple to Industry, and I would
worship in it daily from, morning to night.’

“Mr. Preston’s manner was not what some of us ex-
pected from so distinguished an orator; it was so nat-
ural, so colloquial, so affectionate and yet so command-
ing in its effect! From that time the ‘start theatric’ and
sesquipedalian bombast was afraid to show itself in Gra-
ham Hall. We had received a lasting object lesson in re-
gard to that much misunderstood product called elo-
quence.”

The constitutions of both the Graham Society and
the Washington Literary Society, founded five years
later, are preserved at Washington and Lee. The consti-
tution of the Graham Society provided for two kinds of
members—ordinary members, students at the academy,
and corresponding members, persons who were not stu-
dents. This provision was to be the cause of a great deal
of excitement and almost of “revolution” a few years
later.

Under the provision mentioned above, young men of
the town of Lexington came into the Society. As the
meetings were held on Friday nights those town mem-
bers who worked during the day were able to attend.
As Dr. Ruffner says, this led to ‘evil consequence.”

The Doctor said that “the rivalship between the so-

3

cieties had made them take in, to swell their numbers,
some of the most riotous and dissipated youth of the
town. They often continued their sessions until after
midnight ; and their adjourning at so late an hour, after
the citizens had gone to bed, was the signal for boister-
ous yelling in and about the College, and for sallying
forth into the town, students and town members toge-
ther, to play that sort of noisy or mischievous pranks
which in the boyish vocabulary is called fun.”

This was too much for the nerves of the faculty and
in 1839 the Board of Trustees provided that the meet-
ings thenceforward were to be held on Saturday morn-
ing. This provision automatically eliminated the ma-
jority of the town members from the organization.

Graham Society undertook to defy the authority of
the Board and maintain the independence of the Socie-
ties. Some of the town members, by holding meetings
in a school house outside the college precincts, attempted
to force the Board to rescind their ruling. The Board,
however, took no notice of them and they were forced
to comply with the college regulation.

When the center building at Washington and Lee
(Washington College) was finished in 1825, the literary
societies were given the use of the third floor where they
continued to hold their meetings.

“At these meetings,’ Dr. Ruffner says, “rules were
enforced with rare strictness and impartiality. The usual
penalty for unexcused absence, disorder, failure in the
discharge of duties assigned, and violation of the library
rules, was a fine varying from six and a quarter cents
to dollars.”

Records of the meetings seem to justify Dr. Ruff-
ner’s contention that the Graham Society seemed to at-
tract the more sedate students, and the Washington the
gayer class, although Graham did attempt to defy the
Board’s regulation of their time of meeting. The Wash-
ington Society in that case seems to have done nothing
more rash than to petition the Board.

[t is recorded that on January 5, 1816, Mr. Ruffin
of Washington Society was fined 12%c for lolling on
the bed—an unpardonable attitude no doubt for a So-
ciety man to assume. Evidently the society concluded »
the speaker justified Mr. Ruffin’s being drowsy for he
was excused from lolling on the bed and his fine was
remitted.

The topics of debate in those early meetings reflect
quite well the events of the period and the times through
which the United States was passing, although the boys
did get off on some very abstract subjects every now and
then: of all things the Louisiana Purchase—the Louisi-
ana Purchase was declared inexpedient although the ma-
jority of the members liked Mr. Jefferson’s administra-
tion better than that of John Adams.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Fourth Estate Honors

CHANGES IN THE Official personnel of The Birming-
ham (Ala.) News Company were announced recently
at a meeting of the board of directors, at which Henry
P. Johnston, class of 1929, publisher of The Huntsville

Times, was named
vice-president of the
Birmingham news-

paper concern.

The appointment
of Mr. Johnston to
this position in Bir-
mingham makes him
one of the most out-
standing journalistic
figures in the state
of Alabama. In No-
vember, 1931, he be-
came owner and pub-
lisher of The Hunts-
ville Times, at which
time he held the ho-
nor of being the
youngest newspaper
publisher in America.
In October, 1934,
left Huntsville,

although continuing
his position as publisher of The Times, to become local
advertising manager of The News-Age Herald. Now he
holds two important executive positions on three of Ala-
bama’s outstanding dailies.

Mr. Johnston received his education at Culver Mil-
itary Academy and at Washington and Lee University.
At Washington and Lee he was the first president of the
local Sigma Delta Chi chapter. He was a member of Al-
pha Tau Omega, Omicron Delta Kappa, the 13 Club,
editor of The Ring-tum Phi, White Friar, on the staff
of the Calyx, Final Week Committee, and vice-president
of Fancy Dress. In Huntsville, he became a member of
Rotary International and since moving to Birmingham
has become a member of the Birmingham and Mountain
Brook country clubs.

 

Henry P. Johnston he

 

Dr. Tucker Honored

Dr. Roperr H. Tucker,

Was elected secretary

dean of the University,
to the Conference of Academic
Deans and was chosen for membership in the Commis- °
sion of Institutions of Higher Education at the annual
convention of the Association of Southern Colleges and
Secondary Schools in Louisville recently.

   

Limited Editions Displayed

LIMITED editions and books on printing from the
personal library of C. Harold Lauck, head of the jour-
nalism Jaboratory press at Washington and Lee, were
exhibited at the Carnegie library from January 13-20 in
connection with the observance of printing education
week in Virginia. Mr. Lauck served as state chairman
of the movement which is sponsored by the National
Graphic Arts Education Guild, and observed annually
during the week of the anniversary of the birth of Ben-
jamin Franklin, pioneer printer.

A catalogue of the exhibit will be available to those
who wish copies, and may be obtained by communicating
with Mr. Lauck.

 

HERE'S AN interesting bit of news about Stephen-F.
Chadwick, who lives at 1121 41st street, Avenue, N,
Seattle, Washington: He has been appointed chairman
of the National Americanism Commission of the Amer-
ican Legion. The appointment, made by National Com-
mander Roy Murphy, last November, is for the year
1935-36.

 

Dr. DoucLas S$. ANDERSON, acting president of ‘Tu-
lane University, and one of Washington and Lee’s best
loved alumni, has been elected as an honorary member
of the Louisiana Engineering Society. He is the first

man to receive this honor for some years.

 

 

 

ote a

v2" ' bat

se]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Two Alumni Win Fellowships

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI won two of the
four fellowships awarded this year by the Union Theo-
logical Seminary at Richmond, Va. They are Frank Bell
Lewis of Lewisburg, W. Va., class of 1931, and Henry
Richard Mahler, Jr., of Waynesboro, Va., class of 1931.

According to President Lacey of the Seminary, “these
fellowships are awarded annually by the faculty to mem-
bers of the graduating class on the ground of disting-
uished merit and exceptional promise of efficiency in

 

Frank B. Lewis

Henry R. Mahler

ministerial work.” They entitle the holders to continue
education without charge at some graduate school in
America.

Lewis graduated from Washington and Lee in 1931
with honors and received his master’s degree here the
following year. While at the institution, he held consecu-
tively the Young Scholarship in Philosophy, the German
assistantship, and the Mapleson graduate scholarship.
He was a member of Delta Upsilon, Phi Beta Kappa,
Sigma Upsilon and Tau Kappa Iota. At Union Semi-
nary, he is student director of intellectual life, Latta
Scholar, library assistant, and member of the student
cabinet. During the past two summers he has served in
home missions work in West Virginia, and as assistant
pastor of the Church-of-the-Covenant in Greensboro,
North Carolina.

Mahler received his A. B. degree from Washington
and Tee in 1931 and his M. A. in English the following
year. While in college he was captain of-the cross coun-
try team, a member of the track team and belonged to
the Monogram Club. He was a Phi Beta Kappa and grad-

 

uated with honors. At Union Seminary, he has held the
Latta Scholarship for three years, and assisted the li-
brarian. He has done summer work in Waynesboro, Va.,
and in the Ashe county Presbyterian home mission work
in western North Carolina.

 

The President's Page

(Continued from page three)

As this report to the alumni is being written, the new
Tucker Hall is virtually complete; it will be occupied
probably within two weeks. In the old Odd Fellows Hall
at the corner of Main and Henry street, the students
themselves have built a little theatre that is as charming
as it is useful. A year from this time the projects indi-
cated in these paragraphs should be completed. The in-
stitution will then be prepared to do most of its work
under conditions of instruction that ought to gratify
even the most sensitive alumnus of Washington and Lee.

It pleases me personally to think that the architec-
tural pattern will be preserved and that in connection
with our most historic building even the externals of the
structure itself will not be modified. I like to believe that
with all these changes that make for progress we are
maintaining the fine influences that have always played
upon this campus; that the soul of Washington and Lee

remains constant. ; a
FRANCIS P. GAINES

 

New Hell Week Plans

WASHINGTON AND LEE’s Interfraternity Council has
reiterated a previous stand for a modified “Hell Week’”’
plan for the campus, and the proposals are to be put in
effect this year. The plan was approved last March by
the Council, and was endorsed again this year by a 11-8
vote of the nineteen fraternities at the University.

The resolutions, as adopted by the Council, are: °

1. The period now known as Hell Week shall be
limited to not more than three days.

2. All activities during this period shall be confined
to the respective fraternity houses and grounds.

3. No pledges of any fraternity shall be required to
participate in any activities between the hours 12 mid-
night and 7:00 a. m.

4. The period known as Hell Week shall be con-
ducted within the first week of the second semester.

Speaking on behalf of a modified Hell Week, Dr.
Thomas J. Farrar, faculty adviser of the council, hailed
the decision as a step forward in the proper regard of the
health and academic success of the freshmen it affected.

[ 10 ]

ae een iil

* Bas

1 aed oe Te

ae ae ae

-

. _
la di ial tl it i i ed Ba Be

eh

w sities spiny} ali i bit ER ee pe ee ieee el a Mi

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Yell, and the Ring-tum Phi

C

ust cuT classes if you dare! If you do it you had
better be sure your grades are high. Slash goes
your grade, two points down for every cut you

take.”’ From certain faculty members of Washington

and Lee in 1898 came these threats. Whether you were
sick or just wanted to leave early for Christmas these
professors chopped two points off your grade for any
class you cut.

“Injustice!” . . . . argued a powerful editorial in
The Ring-tum Phi. Former Governor of Virginia, E.
Lee Trinkle, then a student at the University of Vir-
ginia, saw the editorial and exclaimed: ‘Washington and
lee has a real newspaper !”’

“Suppress the publication! . . . Suppress that issue
of The Ring-tum Phi, anyway,” demanded several
persons.

The paper did not fall under the threatened inquisi-
tion. It lived . . . and distinctly outlived the “two-point
slash” for each class absence.

Just a year before, Washington and Lee students
were snake-dancing between halves to a guttural dirge:

“Ring-tum Phi, Stickeri Bum!
We are the stuff from old Lexington.”

And certain ambitious students saw a treble oppor-
tunity—a chance to get rich—a chance to learn news-
paper work. These six students met in serious conclave.
They plotted. They argued. Next week a campus news-
paper flying at its masthead the first three words of the
football yell appeared. 3

Advertisers could not be persuaded to buy space in
the publication. Not even the offer of front page position
at low rates hooked in many advertisers. Subscriptions
appeared even more slowly. “How do we know we will
get the thirty issues we pay for. What if the paper goes
broke next week!” students argued.

Ninety-seven dollars in the hole The Ring-tum Phi
closed its first year. The paper ended the year. The paper
ended the first year owing the printer so much that he
refused to take it for the next year.

A student, Thomas J. Farrar, now head of the de-
partment of German here, took over the battered sheet
its second year. He acted as editor, business manager,
and proof-reader. At first he had to underwrite the ex-
penses from his own funds. The Ring-tum Phi itself
had no credit after the financial wreck of its first year.
That year the first ‘Finals issue’ appeared. Within five

years after its birth the paper was clearing five hundred
dollars a year above expenses.

From Lincoln’s Gettysburg address, Dr. Farrar got
the idea of his masthead slogan :

“By the Students, For the Students.”

About ten years later that slogan was changed to:

“By the Students, For the University.”

The paper has constantly served both students and
University. When its editors decided the students would
be better off without the ‘two point grade slash’ for each
class absence they fought it and conquered it. When a
Ring-tum Phi editor became convinced once that Wash-
ington and Lee should change its athletic policy he waged
an editorial war that resulted in the policy being changed
next year.

The Ring-tum Phi carried want ads. Here is one:
“Found—Saturday morning in front of Dr. Hawe’s, a
shoe, number 3 1-2 C. Having a long tongue it is sup-
posed to be of feminine gender.—Gen. k. E. M.”

“Dropsy Cured” was included among the advertising
ballyhoo flung in the readers’ faces from the front page.
One tailoring company quoted Latin.

“Coca Cola all the winter thru,” advertised Gorrel’s
Pharmacy, now McCrum’s. According to the public util-
ity advertisements there were sixty-eight telephones in
Lexington.

The first ten years the paper was four columns wide.
Its headlines were conservative. Its reading matter was
highly personalized. Personals and write-ups of the lit-
erary societies took up most of the space. Sports were
played down, little space being given to them.

About twenty years ago the paper had gone to a
six-page instead of a four-page regular edition. The edi-
torial board met and decided to make the paper a bi-
weekly, and so it has remained since.

Later the paper went from four columns to five. In
the fall of 1926, under the editorship of I. Lebow, the
paper became six columns wide. This fall the paper

went to seven columns.—( Reprinted from The Ring-tum
Phi of December 15, 1928.)

 

Dr. AND Mrs. GatnEs left February 7 for a vacation
trip to California, planning to spend a week in Los An-
geles. En route, Dr. Gaines will address alumni at Hous-
ton and San Antonio, and will speak again to alumni in
Los Angeles,

a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Olympic Wrestling at W. and L., March 20-21

By RicHArD PoWELL CARTER

REMUS GYMNASIUM with its tall white columns

will be the center of the sporting world’s interest

March 20 and 21 when “the biggest athletic event ever

staged in Virginia’ is
held there.

The event will be
the national intercol-
legiate wrestling meet,
which this year will be
the semi-final Ameri-
can Olympic tryouts.
Winners in the meet
will face champions of
the A. A. U. at a place
to be decided later, the
winners of those bouts
going to Germany next
summer ~tO™tepresenc
the United States.

The tournament,on
which Washington and
Lee athletic authori-
ties started work last
spring, will bring to
Lexington approxi-
mately 200 star college
wrestlers from insti-
tutions scattered all
over the United States.
Members of the Olym-
pic wrestling commit-
tee and other Olympic
officials also will at-
tend the affair, toge-
ther with sporting en-
thusiasts from all sec-
tions of the east.

How did Wash-
ington and Lee hap-
pen to be selected as
the site of the Olym-

pic mat tryouts? The answer is comparatively easy:

It’s all because of the remarkable record of Wash-
ington and Lee wrestling teams the last decade under the
tutelage of Coach A. E. (Archie) Mathis. Washington
and Lee mat teams, varsity and freshmen, have won a

 

 

 

 

 

And that, as it is said in the columns of the best sports

commentators, is a record that is a record.

Arrangements have been made for seating approx-

 

 

 

   
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 

 

 

REGARDED AS A FOREMOST
CONTENDER FOR OLYMPIC
HONORS THIS YEQRL

IN WRESTLING

total of 66 dual meets since 1930.

 

we New JeERsey

 

  
  

    
 

ot

 

et

   
 

 

HE STARRED

IN VARSITY FOOTBALL
AT W.®&L. THE PAST
3 YEARS ANDELAST FALL
Was NAMED ALL-STATE
4 AND ALL~ SOUTHERN
aN CONFERENCE TACKLE

His Home
is AT

 

HAW THORNE;

A S
ead

ww

pe

HE
CAPTAINED
THE W.SL.

   
  

S . a, Pon
BSS WRESTLING TEAM

LAST YEAR AND HOLDS
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE
HEAVYWEIGHT
WRESTLING TITLE

  

\

      

imately 1,800 specta-
tors in reserved seats
for the tournament.
Two mats will be plac-
ed on the floor for the
first three rounds of
the meet, with two
matches running at
the same time in or-
der to take care of the
number of wrestlers
expected to seek Olym-
pic berths this year.
The first matches
will begin at 2:30 Fri-
day afternoon, March
20. An evening session
will be held that night
at 7:30; another af-
ternoon sche-
duled for Saturday af-
ternoon, March 21;
and the finals will be
run off Saturday eve-
ning at 7:30 o’clock.
This intend-
ed as a “sales article”
so much as it is for
the general informa-
tion of alumni—but
just in case there are
some of you who want
to see these Olympic
matches, here’s the
proverbial dope:
Season tickets, ad-
mitting holders to all
four sessions, will cost

session

isn't

$2.20, and may be obtained by writing Dick Smith, genial

[ 12 ]

graduate manager of athletics at the University. He has
a smoothly-functioning finance committee and a host of
other worthy helpers who are aiding in putting on the
tourney, but for any tickets, just write him. For other

(Continued on page 15)

 

é YE os:

és

oe wy wiles
>: Ot Uri bt Fader

Lobe ie he ahh oe 2

?
é.

:

bb ae eto beeen!

a

Pi Bots te aaa /~ “9

q

ws \ *

 

ahae? >

teheidie ek Bde 2 2.

tem §h*

oy

we
a waite See . 1

-“. ee
atte SS Sine anh a AOR A 1) Sah

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Nine Basketball Games—Nine Victories

F you think you’ve read about a record set by
Washington and Lee’s wrestlers, wait until you
succeed in wading through a few of the following

paragraphs about Cy
Young’s basketball
team.

[f there is a team
in the Southern Con-
ference area that has
been attracting atten-
tion this year, it’s the
Generals. Last season,
you'll recall, the Wash-
ington and Lee cagers
went down to Raleigh,
N. C., for the confer--
ence tournament, put
in the role of defend-
ing their circuit champ-
ionship after a some-
what uninspiring re-
cord on the courts.
They captured not only
the favor of the fans
at the tourney, but al-
most captured the title
again, going into the
finals and losing then
to North Carolina by
only a slight margin.

They began calling
the Generals the “tour-
nament team” after
that, and sports writers
were lavish in praise
of Cy’s quintet. So all
eyes were on them this
fall.

Well, if you’ve read
some of the papers
some of the time, you
know what has hap-
pened—at the time this

issue of The Alumni Magazine goes to press, they haven't
lost a game,and have made a thoroughly impressive record.

At last year’s tournament two of the Generals were
awarded all-conference honors. They were Captain Joe
Pette of Rockville Center, N. Y., forward; and Norman

By RPC.

 

Bob Spessard, six feet, seven inches tall

inches, and scores.

Lis}.

Her of Louisville, Ky, guard. Pette is back in form this
year, with [ler as his running mate. But that isn’t all:
Someone last year remarked that the sophomores for

this year’s quint might
be ‘an unknown quan-
tity.’ Well, they were
—until the first prac-
tice game back in De-
cember.

The most spectac-
ular of the second-
year men is Bob Spes-
sard of Roanoke, Va.,
the Generals’ center
who seldom misses the
tip-off. Why? Because
he stands six feet,
seven inches tall in his
basketball shoes and
because for all that
height he’s pretty firm
on his feet and fairly
fast. He weighs about
an even 200 pounds
and is in fine condi-
tion.

Through the Vir-
ginia Tech game Jan-
uary 25, Spessard had
scored a total of 78
points, many of them
due to the fine co-op-
eration given him in a
team that is piling up
numerous baskets by
co-operative play. The
Generals have some-
thing of a system. for
the lanky Spessard
that puts him in a
‘“planted”’ position un-
der the goal. Then,
with a fast passing at-

tack, he suddenly gets the ball, stretches his arms a few

The other sophomores showing up brilliantly so far
are Karl Carson, forward, of Danville, Ky.; and Wes
Heath, a guard, of Bedford, Indiana. Carson has been

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

alternating with Bill Ellis of Ashland, Ky., a veteran
letter man who won fame last fall by his work on the
gridiron (he was selected, incidentally, on the all-South
Atlantic eleven, picked by coaches and sponsored more
or less by Wade Ison of the Charlotte (N. C.) News.)

Two other experienced men on the squad for reserve
strength include Fielden Woodward of Louisville, Ky.,
and Russell Doane of Merrick, N. Y.

Now that you’ve read about the men, here are a few
facts about the scoring of the Generals to date. Alto-
gether, the team has amassed 338 points to only 188 for
their opponents. Here’s the record and the schedule:

December 12—W. and L. 65, Roanoke Y. M. C. A.
15: December 16—W. and L. 33, National Business
College, Roanoke, 31; January 8—W. and L. 40, Elon
30; January 10—W. and L. 30, Maryland 27; January
11—W. and L,. 28, North Carolina 25; January 16—W.
and L,. 57, William
and Mary 20; Jan-
uary 18—W. and L.
35, Univ. of Virgin-
ia 22; January 25—
W.and L.50, V. P. I.
18 (all played in Lex-
ington ). Other games
scheduled are: Feb-
ruary 4, N. C. State,
February 6, Clemson,
both games at Lex-
ington; February 8,
V. P. I. at Blacks-
burg; February 11,
Maryland at College
Park; February 12,
Navy at Annapolis ;
February 14, Rich-
mond at Lexington ;
February 17, Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill;
February 21, Rich-
mond at Richmond;
February 22, Wil-
liam and Mary at
Williamsburg; Feb-
ruary 24, University
of Virginia at Char-
lottesville; February
26, Duke at Lynch-
burg; March 5, 6,
and 7, Southern con-
tournament

North

ference
at Raleigh,
Carolina.

 

Since these last
paragraphs were
written the Generals
have garnered unto
themselves still an-
other victory, whip-
ping the strong N. C.
State quintet 34-23
in one of the fastest
games of the season.
The game definitely
stamped Washington
and Lee’s cagers as
perhaps the most
capable in the Sou-
thern conference, al-
though we're sorry
we won't be able to
include here the re-
sults’ of the game
with Clemson Feb-
ruary 6.

The N. C. State
game did more than
reveal the Generals’
attack, it proved their
ability to guard bril-
liantly, increasing the
pre-tournament pre-
dictions that they have a fine chance of going far in the
annual conference meet at Raleigh. Spessard, center,
tallied an even ten points against State, while Berry, the
invaders’ center who has been leading the conference in
scoring, could get only one point.

 

 

 

Norman [ler

The game also saw Joe Pette and Norman Iler, pic-
tured for you on this page, playing some of their best
hasketball. Repeatedly they snatched the ball from the
hands of State men and turned the tide in favor of the
Generals. Carson and Heath, a pair of flashy sopho-
mores, accounted for eight points apiece in the game.

Washington and Lee’s freshman basketball team,
breaking better than even in their court campaign, 1n-
cludes tall Bill Borries of Louisville, Ky., at center.
Sorries, a brother of the Navy’s famous “Buzz” of grid-
iron accomplishments, is not as lanky as Spessard, but
he stands well over six feet and handles himself well.
Observers, therefore, are predicting that he will be shift-
ed to forward next year as a sophomore if he makes the
varsity grade (and it seems that he will) and that he
and Spessard will make a fine pair. Borries in one of the
freshman games this season scored more points than the
Little Generals’ opponents.

[ 14 |

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

(Continued from page 12)
information, pen a line to the author of this ‘pretty ter-
rible article (what’s a fellow to do when he has so much
to say—wait until you read about the basketball team!)

It is estimated that approximately fifty schools will
send representatives to the meet. Most of the mat artists
from near and afar will be quartered at Washington and
L.ee’s fraternity houses—it’s the fraternities and The
Ring-tum Phi, just in case you'd like to know, that have
really made it possible to bring the national intercol-
legiates to Lexington.

The Generals have at least two potential Olympic
men this year, but the big problem is which one of them
... Lhey are

will get the chance in the intercollegiates
Hugo Bonino, a 230-
pound grappler from
Hawthorne, N. J., who
went to the finals in

Glenn Shively of Chambersburg, Pa., and Rowland
Thomas of Baltimore, Md. Shively wrestles at 145 this
year, and Thomas at 126, although he was a 118-pounder
last season.

And there’s a curious thing about this year’s wrest-
ling team—both Shively and Thomas have brothers on
the squad, and they’re both good.

* 2K x *

Ir 11’s A question of big boys for wrestling and tall
boys for basketball, Washington and Lee athletic officials
believe they can supply an immediate answer.

First, in the manner of weight, there is the giant
Howard C. (Tubby) Owings of Norfolk, Coach Ma-
this’ mat artist who tips the scales at 270 pounds now.
Mathis says, however,
that he’ll get down to
a mere 260 when he
rounds into condition.

 

last year’s meet; and
oddly enough the other
possible contender is
267-pound Tubby Ow-
ings of Norfolk, Va.
Mathis doesn’t know
what he’s going to do
about them, and so far
he has let one wrestle
one dual meet, and the
other the other, if you

 

get all that twisted
language. Neither has
met any opposition,
and when they wrestle
each other—well, they
haven't really wrestled
each other as yet.

In the Duke meet,
Owings disposed of his opponent in a minute and a
half; in the Virginia Tech meet, Bonino needed only
47 seconds to throw his man. So what? Nobody knows

 

the answer.

By way of scoring this year, Washington and Lee’s
wrestlers have won twice in as many starts—better than
that, they haven’t been scored on. The first meet saw
them pile up a 38-0 victory, easily won, over Duke uni-
versity; the second meet they had to be content with a
36-0 triumph. But Mathis, who puts his heart in his
coaching as much as anyone who has ever coached a
group of matmen, thinks maybe the next time he meets
Virginia Tech he can get a clean sweep and not have to
be content with two time advantage decisions, as was
the case this year.

The Generals’ matmen are captained by co-captains

 

 

Glenn Shively, left, and Rowland Thomas

Then there’s Hugo
Bonino of Hawthorne,
N. J., a 230-pound
senior who captained
the Generals’ _wrest-
ling team last year and
who holds the heavy-
weight crown of the
Southern conference.

And in the matter
of height, there is Bob
Spessard, spectacular
basketball player who
stands six feet, seven
inches tall and _ hails
from Roanoke, Va. He
has been playing stead-
ily improving basket-
ball at center as a
sophomore, and accounted for more than half the points
when the Generals whipped North Carolina here last
week.

 

And on the freshman basketball team young Bill
Borries of Louisville, Ky., brother of the famous “Buzz”
of the Navy, stands well over six feet. He promises to
develop into a forward for next year, and coaches al-
ready are planning to team him up with Spessard for a
‘far-reaching’ combination.

Bonino, selected on all-Southern and all-State foot-
ball teams at the close of the last gridiron season, went
to the finals of the national intercollegiate mat tourna-
ment last year, and is regarded as a likely Olympic con-
tender this year. Owings starred at tackle in the fall of
1934, but was prevented by illness from donning football
togs last fall.

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The “A’s” Get a W. and L. Man

RussE_t D. PETERS, a native of Roanoke, Va., and
a former student at Washington and Lee University,
was recently traded to the Philadelphia Athletics by the
Albany, N. Y., team of the International league, where
Peters alternated at third base and shortstop last year. ~

“Pete,” as he was known on the campus, is 21- years
old and entered Washington and Lee in the fall of 1933
and played on the freshman ball team in the spring of
1934. He is a member of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity
and played on the same yearling team with his fraternity
brother, Emerson Dickman, star hurler of the Generals’
present Southern Conference title-holders.

Connie Mack obtained Peters in a trade involving
Bernie Snyder, a shortstop who was sent to Albany out-
right, and an “unannounced sum of money.’’ Benton, a
pitcher, was also involved in the transaction, being hand-
ed over to the International league club on option.

Peters played on the Motive Power club of the Nor-
folk and Western league in Roanoke in 1932 and part of
1933, entering semi-pro ball .with the Wytheville team
of the Blue Ridge league in the latter year. It was while
with this team that “Pete” was invited to work out with
the Washington Americans but continued with the
Wytheville club until school opened that fall. Before
school opened Peters had declined an offer from “Poke”
Whalen, scout of the Albany team, to sign with the
International league club. Russ was reluctant to let this
chance of entering professional ball slip by however and
in the spring of 1934 signed with Albany.

Although Peters worked out at the shortstop posi-
tion with Albany last spring he played regularly as a
third baseman until the last game of the season. It was
in this last game that one of Connie Mack’s scouts saw
him and reported favorably to the Athletic’s manager.

According to Connie Mack, young Peters has every
chance to make good. “He handles himself well, has a
good arm, a good baseball head but his batting average
will need improving,” the A’s manager has observed.

Russ is spending the winter at his home in Roanoke,
where he will remain until the opening of spring train-
ing at Fort Myers, Florida, which is scheduled for March
1. “The only trouble,” Peters told fraternity brothers
who were congratulating him on his good fortune, “is
that I have been traveling so much lately that I am
going to have trouble settling down until the opening of
spring training.”

‘Peters played shortstop as a freshman in the spring
of 1934 and showed promise then of becoming a star,”
Captain Dick Smith, coach of the Generals, said when
told of the trade that sent him to Philadelphia.

—John V. Eshbaugh, Class of 1936

Death Mask of General Lee

A death mask of General Lee, one of the very few in
existence, has been presented to Washington and Lee
University and is now on display in the Lee Museum at
the Chapel. The mask, made from an original by Clark
Mills, famous sculptor of General Lee’s day, was given
to Dr. Gaines for the University by Dr. James Brown
Scott, secretary of the Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace.

According to all available information, there are only
two other death masks of the Confederate leader. ‘They
are in the possession of historical organizations at Rich-
mond, Va.

Presentation of the mask to Washington and Lee was
made when Dr. Scott visited the University for the an-
nual Founders Day address in January of this year.

 

Here's Max Wilkinson

News oF Max Wilkinson comes in a letter from Tom
Sugrue, 1930, which we quote:

“Incidentally, | have a note for your Alumni Maga-
zine that will be welcomed by a great number of the
boys—the whereabouts of Max Wilkinson have been
revealed. If you don’t know who Max is, he became a
legend in his own time on the campus. I never met him
there because he left the spring before I arrived. He
was a Phi Psi and pitched on the baseball team and
would have been a football star but for an ankle in-
jury ... he boxed, however. His legend concerned itself
with his exploits in stealing a tombstone and doing var-
ious other things which he now claims are untrue.

“Anyhow, our fiction editor (American Magazine)
one day asked me if I knew him, and I answered that
| knew him better than any other person | had never
met except George Washington and Robert E. Lee, so
he confessed that Max for a year had been over at Col-
lier’s, reading fiction on the editorial staff, and that he
had asked him to let him know when I was in town...
so he got Max and we had a long talk. He would like to
go back and visit Lexington. I have been asked by any
number of people where Max was and what he was
doing, and always answered that I didn’t know, when
all the time he was working on the same floor, not a
hundred feet away from me.”

(Therefore, the address of both Max and Tom is in
care of the Crowell Publishing Company, 250 Park Ave-
nue, New York.)

 

Plan now to attend the semi-final Olympic tryouts at
Washington and Lee, March 20-21.

[ 16 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

The above picture shows Dr. Gaines as he was received by a group of alumni on his visit to Birmingham in December.
Left to right: Douglas Wingo, L. R. Hanna, Roderick Beddow, W. L. Hogue, Dr. Gaines, Sorsby Jemison, W. J. Rushton,
and Henry Johnston.

Local Alumni Association Notes

THE LAST PART Of November and the first part of
December found Dr. Francis P. Gaines on a tour of the
deep South, making addresses to alumni associations
trom sunny New Orleans north to Bristol, Va.-Tenn.
Reports of these meetings, gleaned from newspapers and
accounts sent in by secretaries of the various chapters,
are carried here. If names of some of those who attend-
ed and made the meetings a success are omitted, The
Alumni Magazine regrets it and urges that complete ac-
counts be sent in immediately after each meeting. Your
magazine is willing and anxious to give detailed accounts

%

of all association gatherings.—R. P. C.

New Orleans

ON HIS SWING through the south in December, Dr.
Gaines was greeted by a representative group of alumni
at New Orleans. Before speaking before the association
there at a dinner December 2, the President was taken
on a yacht trip through the Harvey Canal, passing
through the Harvey locks—it was Captain Harvey, a
Washington and Lee alumnus, who conceived and de-
signed the old Harvey Canal.

Dr. GaAInEs told of plans for the future of the Uni-
versity and described present affairs at the dinner given
tor him at a down-town French restaurant in New Or-
leans.

Those who attended the dinner included: Judge Wil-
liam Bell, class of 1895, of Opelousas, La.; Dean Doug-
las Anderson, acting president of Tulane University ;
T. P. Hamilton, class of 1897; W. O. Whaley; O. H.
Briedenbach; W. B. Wisdom; John Minor Wisdom;
Herbert Jahncke; and Elmore Dufour. (The Alumni
Magazine regrets that the full list of those attending,
which included .some eighteen other alumni, was not
available for this issue.)

Bristol

“THE SOUL of youth is the most wonderful material
in the world to work with,’ Dr. Francis P. Gaines de-
clared at Bristol, Va., December 5, before the Appala-
chian Association alumni group in a stirring message of
the University, its accomplishments, its historic past,
and its hopes and aspirations for future progress.

“We have only two outstanding rules at Washington
and Lee, and those were set by Robert E. Lee, himself,
when he declared that we expect a boy to pass his work
and be a gentleman,’ Dr. Gaines stated in pointing to
the honor system.

Of particular interest to alumni was Dr. Gaines’ re-
cital of the future plans for the physical development
of the University, and the continued program of beau-
tifying the campus. He also went into the college’s care-

[ 17 ]

ful plan of selecting and admitting students, and of the
splendid results obtained scholastically.

Thomas H. Pratt, of Kingsport, president of the
alumni association, presided. Graham Morison, of Bris-
tol, presented Dr. Gaines.

Mrs. Jeb Kelly, of Virginia Intermont college, pre-
sented an entertainment program of two talented tap
dancers and two solos by Miss Louise Barsamian, “Ser-
enade,” and “L’Amour, Toujours L’Amour.”

Alumni present at the banquet were: J. M. Barker,
Jr., Hagan Minnich, H. Graham Morison, Henry N.
Barker, J. A. Roller, Love B. Rouse, J. Robert Smith,
Herbert G. Peters, Jr., Homer A. Jones, Edward Wright,
A. Carter Crymble, and J. W. Wright, Jr., of Bristol,
Fred C. Parks, Abingdon, Allen H. Wofford, Jack Sum-
mers, Estel Harmon, J. R. Simmonds and A. B. Bow-
man, of Johnson City, I. M. Quillen, of Lebanon, H.
Claude Pobst, Grundy, Thomas H. Pratt, Kingsport,
H. J. Kiser, Wise, B. W. Hamilton, Appalachia, Ca WwW:
Hamilton, Wise, and J. H. Steley, Jr., Maryville, Tenn.

Birmingham

“BIRMINGHAM students at Washington and Lee Un-
iversity rank among the highest,” said Dr. Francis P.
Gaines at the dinner tendered in his honor by Birming-
ham alumni December 3, at the Tutwiler hotel.

In outlining the traditions and ideals of the Univer-
sity, Dr. Gaines said that the students from Birmingham
exemplified the highest ideals of the institution.

Non-alumni guests at the banquet were Oscar Wells,
chairman of the board of directors of the First National
Bank; Erskine Ramsay, Birmingham industrialist, and
Victor Hanson, publisher of the Birmingham Age-Her-
ald-News. All three guests made brief addresses wel-
coming Dr. Gaines to the city.

James Hendricks was elected president of the Bir-
mingham branch of the alumni association; Douglas
Wingo, vice-president, and W. L. Hogue, secretary-
treasurer.

The committee in charge of plans for the banquet
consisted of L.. R. Hanna, Walter Hood and Henry P.
Johnston.

Chattanooga

To WasHINGTON AND Leg UNIveErsiTy and its inti-
mate though far-flung family of alumni, “heirlooms”
and personal bequests of more than merely material va-
lue continue to accrue, President Francis P. Gaines told
the Chattanooga alumni chapter at a dinner tendered
him at Chattanooga, December 4.

“We are fortunate in having a mature and fully
grown institution,” he told the alumni. “Our need is now

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

not numerical or financial growth, but preservation of
the fineness handed down to us by predecessors like Lee
and Washington,” he said.

Present were Charles L. Claunch, president of the
chapter which was formed three months ago; Edward
E. Brown, vice-president, who made a short talk of wel-
come after Dr. Gaines’ address; Frank A. Nelson, hon-
orary president; John D. Stanard, secretary and treas-
urer; A..C. Bryan, Dr. John W. Hocker, Glenn R.
Stoutt, James W. Cassell, Albert Hurst, the Rev. Battle
McLester, John Morgan Bright, Clarence R. Avery,
Herbert Barks, Dr. J. McChesney, Hogshead, Dawson
Hall, Creed Bates, Ed Lea Davis, C. W. Tharpe and
William Robinson.

Dr. Gaines spoke at both McCallie and Baylor schools
on his visit to Chattanooga.

Louisville

LOUISVILLE alumni held their first meeting of 1936
on January 2 with about twenty-five alumni and stu-
dents present.

At the meeting officers were elected as follows:

Edward A. Dodd, president, class of 1926; R. T.
Foree, Jr., vice-president, class of 1927; S. Cook Shaw,
secretary and treasurer, class of 1924.

Due to the spirit of Louisville alumni during the
past few years, Louisville has become “conscious of
Washington and Lee.”

The chapter planned a big dinner January 19 in
commemoration of Lee’s birthday.

Lynchburg

THe LyncHuBurc alumni of Washington and Lee
University sponsored a dance here December 19 at Oak-
wood Country Club. The event was staged in honor of
the seniors at E. C. Glass High school and students in
nearby preparatory schools.

‘The club was decorated in blue and white with Wash-
ington and Lee pennants prominently displayed at each
end of the hall and directly above the band stand. Blue
and white streamers were hung from each of fourteen
chandeliers. The band stand also was decked in school
colors.

Music for the event was furnished by the Southern
Collegians of Washington and Lee. Approximately 125
boys from secondary schools attended, together with a
large number of Lynchburg people. Girls came from
Lynchburg, Randolph-Macon College and nearby towns.

The dance was purely invitational, one of the few of
this type given in Lynchburg during the holiday season.
The event was made as “typically Washington and Lee”
as possible. Many students and numerous officials from

[ 18 ] :

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

the University were invited. After intermission, con-
fetti, balloons and serpentine paper were released from
the balcony.

Among the alumni who attended or “contributed” to
the success of the dance were Thomas Gilliam, president
of the alumni association; A. L. Burger, Thomas Kirk-
patrick, Dr. Mosby G. Perrow, S. H. Williams, Morris
Hester, Judge Henry B. Glass, Robert Glass, W. TT.
Spencer, Jr., R. C. Wood, Max Barker, Irving Lynn,
W. W. Lynn, R. KE. Graves, Thomas Graves, Jack Cas-
kie, James R. Caskie, Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., Carol Wilt-
shire, Basil Watkins, Murrel Alexander, Dr. C. H. Pat-
terson, Tom Torrey, Bob Morris, Bill Goodwin, Brack
Stovall, Kenneth Routon, Peyton Winfree, William T.
Macleod, Fred McWane, Raymond Cundiff, A. W. Mos-
by, Jr., Ashton Parnell and George M. Ligston.

Harrisburg

PENNSYLVANIA alumni converged upon Harrisburg
December 27 for a luncheon honoring Dr. Gaines, who
was visiting the city also to address the annual conven-
tion of the Pennsylvania Education Association.

Dr. J. W. Claudy, president of the general alumni
association, acted as toastmaster, while Paul Schuchart,
alumni leader in Pennsylvania, presided and had charge
of the program. About fifty persons attended the lunch-
eon, which was held at the Penn-Harris hotel.

 

Marriages

Joun WILLIAM Barcer, A. B. $932, and Miss Mar-
garet Isabella Fisher of Keyser, W. Va., were married
December 28, 1935. Barger, a member of Delta Tau
Delta, was editor of The Ring-tum Phi.

Tom Sucrvue, class of 1930, who has been running
all over the world writing stories for The American
Magazine, was married to Miss Mary Ganey in Novem-
her of 1935. They have visited Lexington several times
since their wedding, and at present are living at 59 West
12th street, New York City. |

WALLACE N. TiFFany, class of 1931, and Mrs. Emily
Virginia Tiffany Beverley were married January 7, 1936,
at Warrenton, Va.

 

30RDEN Burr, class of 1898, who has made quite a
reputation for himself as a lawyer in Birmingham, re-
cently read an elaborate paper on the Constitution and
the Supreme Court before the Kiwanis Club of Colum-
bus, Miss. The pamphlet received considerable notice in
that area.

In Memoriam

Former Virginia State Senator Floyd W. King, who
received his law degree from Washington and Lee in
1899, died January 23, 1936, at his home in Alexandria,
Va. He was 59 years old and had been ill about five
weeks,

Senator King was a native of Fluvanna, Va., and
was widely known throughout the Old Dominion. He
held memberships in the famous Westmoreland Club at
Richmond and in the University Club at Washington.

WitiiAM D. GresHaM, class of 1899, for many years
a member of the Virginia state board of education, died
at Richmond January 17, 1936.

J. SNypor BOHANNAN, 49, who was graduated in
law in 1906, died in December at his home at Lincoln,
Neb. Mr. Bohannan was transferred to Lincoln last De-
cember to become head of an extensive forest service
project, and was one of the leading attorneys in the so-
licitor’s office of the United States Department of Ag-
riculture. He was a member of 23 bars in the nation,
and had argued cases frequently before the United States
Supreme court. He practiced for 10 years in North Car-
olina after leaving Washington and Lee.

Ratpu H. Scorr, A. B. 1925, M. A. 1926, dropped
dead January 5, 1936, while teaching a class at North-
western University. Mr. Scott, member of a prominent
Roanoke, Va., family, went first to V. P. I. before trans-
ferring to Washington and Lee for his two degrees. He
was 31 years old and had taught at Georgia Tech, Wash-
ington and Lee, Marshall College and Harvard before
going to Northwestern.

James T. McCrum, A. B. 1908, public accountant,
was found dead in bed at his home, 913 South Nine-
teenth Street, Birmingham, on December 30. He had
been in ill health for some time. Mr. McCrum was a
native of Lexington, Va., and was connected with a
widely known Virginia family. Surviving are his bro-
ther, C. M. McCrum, and other relatives in Virginia.
Funeral services were held January 2, followed by in-
terment at Forest Hill Cemetery.

 

Dawson HALL, class of 1930, recently was elected
president of the Hamilton County (Tennessee) Young
Democrats Club. He was named to the position by a
majority of 132 votes, and in the words of Charles L.
Claunch, class of 1927, the job is “rather important”
in Chattanooga, where Claunch lives. Hall was captain
of Washington and Lee’s wrestling team in 1929.

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Attention Alumni

THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IT HAS BEEN POSSIBLE TO GET A COAT-OF-ARMS
OF THE UNIVERSITY

Price Postpaid framed $9.00; unframed $7.00

As the supply is limited, send in your order early to

LEE MUSEUM
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

McCRUM’S “LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By HENRY BOLey

DRUG STORE to be published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni

FLOWER SHOP
of Washington and Lee

SODA FOUNTAIN
$3.00

BUS TERMINAL

order now from

*-_ * * * *

.
Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To- Boley. S B ook Store
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Geo. W. St. Clair C. R. Brown, Jr., Huston St.Clair
Class of 1891 Class of 1916 Class of 1922

 

[ 20 ]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1873

JupceE WiLLIAM H. Taycog lives in Uniontown, Ala-
bama. He is a charming gentleman of the old school. A
friend says of him—*‘Actually he is a classical example
of the gentleman who has made a success of life. Cer-
tainly he has one of the mellowest, sweetest, most under-
standing minds now functioning in this republic. I am
glad he does not hate anybody, glad he does not hate
anything but error. He is an inspiration to me.” Judge
Tayloe was born August 26, 1853. He and his wife paid
a visit to Lexington last summer—sixty-two years from
the date of his graduation in 1873.

1874

The Rr. Rev. JAMEs R. WINCHESTER, retired Bishop
of Arkansas, lives with his daughter at 218 Crestmere
Ave., Memphis, Tennessee. Bishop Winchester was ill
with a fractured hip for ten months, but is reported
steadily improving.

1879

HuntTER McDONALD lives at 1915 West End Ave-
nue. He has a son, Hunter, Jr., and three grandchildren.

1882

CHARLES EDWARD KEMPER has written extensively
during the past thirty years for the Virginia Magazine
of History and Biography and the William and Mary
Quarterly.

1887

Brown CraiG PATTERSON was for
thirty years in evangelistic work in China.
Now for fifteen yeaars has been connected
with the North China Theological Sem-
inary and has had the pleasure of seeing
it grow into the largest seminary in China.
His sons, Craig Houston and William
Blackwood, are both in mission work in
China.

EmmMetr Leroy Kipp has been a mem- ZS
ber of the Louisiana state board of edu- =
cation for twenty years, president of it
for eight years.

  

yl i aleryiiy
i WaT y

\r
ed
<= ty f
- em
kya

 

1889

Joun ALLEN BENNETT, JR., lives at 426 E. Lafay-
ette Ave., Baltimore, Md.

1890

DoucLtas ANbERSON, Dean of Tulane University,
has been appointed acting president of that institution
for 1935-36. In June he was elected president of the
Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education.
This is the first time in the history of the organization
that a representative of a southern institution has been
elected to the presidency.

1891

JupceE JosEpH A. GLAscow’s recent book—recollec-
tions of Virginia jurists—has been published in Staun-
ton, Va.

FRANK BoubE KENNEpy is practicing law in Staun-
ton, Va.

1892

Levi P. Morton is clerk of the circuit court of
Berkeley county, Martinsburg, West Virginia. He is
taking an active part in all branches of Masonry in the
state and is an officer in the Grand Royal Arch Chapter.

Monte J. Gosie, “Co-ordinator of People and Prop-
erties,’ 1020 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio,
has a unique and interesting firm organized to bring to-
gether buyers and sellers of largep roperties, partic-
ularly in the middlewest and south.

WILLIAM G. WIGLESWoRTH is owner
and operator of loose leaf tobacco sales
warehouses and also is a farmer. He lives
in Cynthiana, Ky.

Matccoto G. Bruce, Berry Hill Plan-
tation, South Boston, Va., owns a portrait
of John Marshall, painted in 1824 by E.
F’. Peticolas, the year the famous decision
in the case of Gibbons vs. Ogden was ren-
dered. When the portrait was exhibited
in Richmond with other Marshall por-
traits, a descendant considered this “‘a
truer likeness, because the others portray-
ed a shrewd-able lawyer while yours the
great jurist himself.”

   
    
  

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Wituiam E. DarNnatt is practicing medicine at 5
South Morris Avenue, Atlantic City, N. J.

1893

JuLiEN BotssEux lives at One North Fifth Street,
Richmond, Va.

Emmerr Rusk ConNER lives at 2900 Alton Road,
Fort Worth, Texas.

CHARLES DANIEL Forrer is judge of the Criminal
court for Wood county and lives at 1200 Julianna St.,
Parkersburg, W. Va.

CHARLES Lyons is judge of the 15th Judicial cir-
cuit, Lexington, Mo.

1894

Dr. Hucu Mercer Biain is head of the Depart-
ment of English, Loyola University, New Orleans, La.

MARSHALL HENRY GUERRANT since 1926 has been
in the citrus industry and is president of United Citrus
Growers Association. He lives in Umatilla, Fla.

1896

Wititiam Dickson ApAMs is engaged in newspaper
work at Dallas, Texas. His home is at 2018 Bennett
Ave., Dallas.

GLENN M. Brown studied art in New York and
Paris. His specialty is etching. Has just completed a
translation of the poems of Francois Villion.

Ransom H. GILierre is assistant attorney general
of the state of New York. He lives at New Lebanon
Center, Columbia county, New York. Mr. Gillette has
had an interesting and colorful career.

WittiAM Farrincton Houck lives at 465 Wash-
ington St., Russellville, Ala. Has one child—a daughter.

1897

LeRoy C. Barret? and his wife, who was Miss Net-
tie Pratt of Lexington, were visitors in Lexington dur-
ing the past summer.

Avsert C. DuNLAp is in the freight traffic depart-

ment, Norfolk & Western Railroad, Roanoke, Va.

WiLuiAM J. LiINDENBERGER now maintains offices at
16 California Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

The Rev. FRANK MEzick is a minister of the Prot-
estant Episcopal Church, Arrington, Nelson county, Va.

1898

RANDOLPH TUCKER SHIELDS, dean of Cheeloo Uni-
versity School of Medicine, T'sinan, Shantung, China,
is spending some time in this country.

Davip BARCLAY is with the United States tariff com-
mission, Washington, D. C. He is temporarily located
in Richmond, Va., organizing a group of PWA workers
who will work for the tariff commission.

1899

WixuiaM E. Davis is in the coal business at Hazard,
Ky. He lives at 420 W. 6th Street, Lexington, Ky. He
married Miss Bruce Houston, a Lexington, Va., girl, and
they have five children.

A. Stuart Gipson is rector of the Episcopal church
at Manassas, Va.

A. SEppon JoNEs is farming in Hanover county,
Va. His postoffice address is Ellerson, Va.

Wittiam Lee Karnes lives at 624 South Arden
Boulevard, Los Angeles, Calif.

FLoyp Kine is president of the Virginia Public Ser-

vice Company, Alexandria, Va.

1900

ArcHIBALD Hatt ‘THROCKMORTON lives at 2600
Wellington Road, Cleveland, Ohio.

1901

SrtePHEN C. Harris lives at 134 Englewood Ave.,
Brookline, Mass. Has sent two sons through college.
Writes a delightful letter of reminiscences of ‘the law
school here in his time, and of friendships made then
which have been carried on through his life.

1902

Harry Neat Huss is division agent of the Norfolk
and Western Railway, living in Roanoke, Va.

Witt1am G. McDoweE -t has a large family of five
sons and one daughter ; is bishop of Alabama; loyal and
enthusiastic alumnus.

1903

Davip VANCE GuTHRIE has been head of the de-
partment of physics and astronomy since 1912 at Louis-
iana State University. He has written many articles for
scientific journals,

[ 22 |

/ wie)
eee Ral te

    

¢
a”
,

‘st

jai
-

i Sa ake

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Davip RANDOLPH PHELPs has practiced his profes-
sion as a dental surgeon in Lynchburg, Va., for the past
twenty-seven years. His offices are in the Allied Arts
building.

1904

CHARLES Maurice BARNEs is an A.B., LL. B.,
LL. M., George Washington University, Washington,
D. C. Member of bar, Supreme Court and Court of Ap-
peals of the District of Columbia. He lives at 3420 Six-
teenth St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

J. Murpocu DENNIs lives at 100 Upnor Road, Bal-
timore, Md.

1905

D. A. BRADHAM is practicing law in Warren, Ark.

DEXTER Hossik, JR., is a member of the firm of
Hobbie Brothers Company, Inc., Roanoke, Va.

WaLTER G. RuippickK is a member of the firm of
Coleman & Riddick, Little Rock, Ark.

W. E. McCLenny is an accountant in
Suffolk, Va. He writes many hisorical
sketches of Nansemond county, Va., for
his local papers.

1906

Harry L. HANDLEY is with the Unit- |
ed States Bureau of Public Roads. Last --#
spring he completed the Hawaii National
Park highway to the top of Haleakala
Crater on the island of Maui, the largest
dormant crater in the world with an elevation of 10,000
feet we are informed. He has a son in the University now.

Mitton HERMAN is in the mercantile business in
Danville, Va.

CHARLES Hopson is practicing law in Frankfort, Ky.

WitiiaM L,. (BILL) Hoce is president of the Men-
gel Body Company, 4th and G Streets, Louisville, Ky.

SAMUEL REGISTER NEEL is a minister of the Balti-
more Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
South, 714 Dale Ave., S. E., Roanoke, Va.

Basit MANLY is vice chairman of the Federal Power
Commission, Washington, D. C.

B. J. (BARNEY) MAyeEr is practicing law in La-
Grange, Ga.

JouHN McCuttocu is farming at Ashton, W. Va.

Harrison R. Morss is sales engineer for S. F. Bow-
ser & Co., Boston office, Park Square building, 31 St.
James Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

CLAUDE PorTERFIELD LicuT, class agent for 1906,
is in the private practice of law in Parkersburg, W. Va.

1907

WILLIAM LELAND Lorp is head of the department
of mathematics, Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry
Forest, Va.

DonaLp W. M. MacC uer has been pastor of the
Rose City Park Presbyterian church, 44th & Sandy
Boulevard, Portland, Oregon, since July 1, 1920.

1908
GEORGE E. Cary is practicing law in Gloucester, Va.

RoBERT RussELL GRAy is a Presbyterian minister
at Union, W. Va.

WILLIAM PowELL Hooper has been in the Presby-
terian ministry for the past twenty years, the last sixteen
of which has been spent as pastor of the
Highlawn Presbyterian Church of Hun-
tington, W. Va. He has taught Bible in
Marshall College for the past six years.
He’s an enthusiastic golfer, and plays of-
ten, we hear.

JAMES HARDEN Howe Lt has held many
business and civic positions in Waynes-
ville, N. C. He has one son, James Harden
Howell, Jr.

RicHArp W. HyNson is a member of
the firm of Folger, Nolan & Company, investment bank--
ers, American Security building, Washington, D. C.

WittiAM H. JAcKSON is practicing law in ‘Tampa,
Fla.

WittiamM G. LONG is in private practice of law in
Sulphur, Okla. Was county judge, Murray county, Okla.,
in 1921-27; district judge 14th judicial district, 1927
to 1935.

1909

BERNIE BorCHARDT is practicing law at 410% Frank-
lin St., Tampa, Fla.

L,. J. Boxey is in the construction business in Roa-
noke, Va. His firm has recently completed the super-
highway from Coal Creek to Norris Dam, in Tennessee,
and a dam and hydro-electric plant for the city of Rad-
ford, Va. In addition to this construction business he is
president of both the Blue Ridge Stone Corporation, and
the Trego Stone Corporation and is vice-president of
the Pembroke Limestone Corporation. All of these plants
are crushed stone producers in Virginia.

[ 23 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1910

M. Cary JoHNSTON is a member of the firm of Car-
neal, Johnston & Wright, architects and consulting en-
gineers. This firm had charge of the construction of the
new law building at Washington and Lee.

Loomis FRANKLIN KLuvu’z is an attorney-at-law and
member of the state legislature, Newton, N. C.

Harry J. LEMLEY has practiced law continuously
since graduation and is senior member of the firm of
Lemley and Lemley, in Hope, Ark.

1911

J. Nevin KivMer, class agent for 1911, is an attor-
ney-at-law in Martinsburg, W. Va.

E. E. Aprams, JR., is in the printing and advertising
business; actively working for the United Autographis
Register Company of Chicago; covers ten counties in
and around Butler, Mo., where he lives.

Ben ArnswortH has practiced law in Lexington,
Va., since 1913.

James Mapison BarKER, JR., is secretary of the
Security Investment Company, Bristol, Tenn. He has
a son, James A. Barker, age 11.

Brian BELL has held numerous editorial positions,
working with The State, Columbia, $. C.; Associated
Press, Atlanta, Ga.; correspondent, New Orleans; staff
correspondent, New York; chief of bureau of Associated
Press, Los Angeles, Calif., since 1930. He lives at 907
Schumacher Drive, Los Angeles.

WititiAM FRANK BLANTON was appointed a county
judge in 1918 and has held the office by election ever
since. His address is the Court House, Miami, Fla.

Cassrus A. Boong has practiced medicine in Louis-
ville, Ky., since 1920. His offices are in the Francis
building.

Water N. Booray is in business at 1825 High
Street, Portsmouth, Ohio.

Oscar H. BrEIDENBACH is engaged in the insurance
business, specializing in annuities and advanced under-
writing. He lives at 1102 Lowerline Street, New Or-
leans, La.

Epwarp E. Brown is with the Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company with offices in the Hamilton Na-
tional Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Joun F. Brown is judge of the twentieth judicial
circuit, Randolph and Upshur counties, Elkins, W. Va.

Grorck CHANEY is a member of the law firm of
Chaney and Loyd, American National Bank building,
Roanoke, Va.

Lewis G. Coorer is practicing law in Greenville,
North Carolina. .

1912

Joun Henry JoHNson lives in Gate City, Va. He
has been active in farming and general business since
leaving college; is a member of the board of directors
of the Federal Land Bank of Baltimore. He married
Mary Foster Rowan and they have a daughter, Linda
Johnson, two years old.

J. Frank Key is general superintendent of the Co-
lumbia Paper Company, Buena Vista, Va. His son grad-
uated from Washington and Lee last June.

Rosert (Bos) McMurran Knorr is assistant state
fire marshal for West Virginia, with offices in the Cap-
itol building, Charleston, W. Va. He married Margaret
Christine Walper, and they have three children, Robert
S., William Jackson and Barbara Lee.

Atonzo G. LivELy is judge of the 27th judicial cir-
cuit of Virginia, and lives in Lebanon, Va.

1913

THomMAS RocHELLE BANDy is an attorney-at-law,
Kingsport, Tenn. He married Miss Vivian Duncan.

Joun ALEXANDER BowMaANn is a Presbyterian min-
ister serving the Catoctin Church, Waterford, Va. He
married Miss Fern Prince and they have two children,
John A., Jr., and Carol Prince.

Rosrert H. Burrow, Jr., is a lawyer, living in Bris-
tol, Tenn.

RUFFNER CAMPBELL is a lawyer in Asheville, N. C.
He has two children, Elizabeth and Ruffner, Jr.

HersBert V. Carson is a Presbyterian minister in
the Trinity Presbyterian Church, Montgomery, Ala.

Grapy Doaxk Davipson is general superintendent of
the Warrior Coal Co., at Warriormine, W. Va.

Grorcr West DriEHL is minister at the First Pres-
byterian Church, Corpus Christi, Texas. He married
Miss Iva Carruth Shafer of Rockbridge county, Va.

BENJAMIN F. Fiery is engaged in the practice of
law with the firm of Baker, Hostetler, Sidlo ahd Pat-
terson, Cleveland, Ohio.

CrirForD Foster is connected with the advertising
department of The Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tenn.

[ 24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Puitip P. Greson has been elected president of the
Cabell County Bar Association for 1935-1936. He mar-
ried Miss Morrell Jones of Louisville, Ky., and they
have two children, Anne Morrell and Philip P., Jr.

Houston SIMRALL GILLEYLEN is in the real estate
and abstract business in Aberdeen, Miss.

JosEpH Graves GLAss is associated with Douglas
N. Lawley in the general practice of law—suite 2416,
Smith-Young Tower, San Antonio, Texas. He married
sillie Hoffman of Dallas, Texas, and they have one
daughter, Jo Ann.

Henry C. GroskEcLoseé is professor of agricultural
education at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg,
Virginia.

Henry B. Goop.og is in the general practice of law
with offices in Crozet and Charlottesville, Va. In 1934
he was appointed United States councilia-
tion commissioner for Albermarle county.
He is chairman of the Republican Com-
mittee of Albermarle county, and presi-
dent of the Department of Virginia Re-
serve Officers Association of the U. 5.

BERNIE HARPER is a member of Yan-
tis-Harper Company, automobile tires
and accessories, Fort Smith, Ark.

Bit. HANzsSCHE is minister of the
Prospect Street Presbyterian Church,
Trenton, N. J. In the fall of 1934 he
published his third book, “The Presbyterians—a Staunch
and Sturdy People.” It exhausted the first edition in four
months. The second edition was published last summer.

Bitty Hocue is judge of the tenth judicial circuit
of Alabama. He lives at 2621 Arlington Ave., Birming-
ham, Ala. Has one son, William L., Jr.

Epison C. JALONICK lives at 3524 Wellborn Ave.,
Dallas, Texas.

Thomas S. KirKPATRICK is a member of the firm
of Kirkpatrick & Burks, attorneys and counsellors at
law, Lynchburg, Va.

KpwarpD WEEKS LEE is in the insurance business at
1350 Broadway, New York. He is the very active and
efficient secretary of the New York Alumni Association.

CLARE HarpinG (TED) MArsTILLErR has been deputy
collector of internal revenue, Elkins, W. Va., for the
past three years.

1914

BERKELEY Cox is associate counsel of the Aetna
life Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn.

< _
4
t

   

STEPHEN F. CHADWICK is practicing law in Seattle,
Wash. His firm is Chadwick, Chadwick & Mills, with
offices in the Central building, Seattle.

Burorp S. Burks is a dental surgeon at Crewe, Va.

Frep L,. Davis is with the Home Owners Loan Cor-
poration, Dominion National Bank building, Bristol, Va.

1915

W. M. Casu, Jr., is with the Virginia Lime Pro-
ducts Company, Inc., Eagle Rock, Va.

Epprg Parks Davis is back in Lexington, greatly
improved in health. He has a host of friends here who
are always delighted to see him.

J. Cart FisHeEr is an illuminating engineer with the
Gas and Electric Company, Baltimore, Md. He lives at
208 Witherspoon Road, Baltimore.

1916

| Jose CAMINERO is a member of the
ee Cuban Society of Engineers. He received

. wae his C. E. from Villanova College. His
_ i = address is Monserrate 4, Havana, Cuba.
Harrison P. MAGRUDER is deputy
treasurer of Shenandoah county, Va. He

a lives in Woodstock.

SetH Brown MoorEHEAD lives at 64
Montague St., Charleston, W. Va.

JoHN GrirFin CARLISLE is with the Southwestern
Portland Cement Co., Lexington, Ky.

Rosert G. NELSON is practicing medicine in ‘Tempa,
Florida.

1917

Hiram Cassepy HoLpEN is practicing law in Jack-
son, Miss. He married Lourine Magee.

Homer A. Jones is vice president and cashier of
the Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Va.

Ropert R. Kans is with the R. C.A. Radiotron Com-
pany, Camden, N. J. He is counsel for this company. Is
married and has three children, Patricia, Kathleen and
Robert.

Orsa A. McCurpy is manager of the Retail Mer-
chants Association of Vernon, Texas. He married Jos-
ephine Wardlaw.

Bos McDovuc te is practicing law in Parkersburg,
W. Va. He married Marion Harvey and they have one
daughter eleven years old.

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Gitt W. Kruz is practicing law in Lenoir, N. C.

Cartes W. McNirr has been practicing medicine
in New York for the past five years. His offices are at
114 East 62nd St., New York, N. Y.

1918

JOHNNIE GALLAGHER is at Fort Defiance, Va. On a
questionnaire we sent him, in the space for college ac-
tivities at Washington and Lee, Johnnie filled in: “Swell
dancer, football and baseball.” And he underscored the
“swell dancer.” He says his chief distinction is that he
played on the last team that whipped West Virginia.

CHARLES Puittirs HANGER, JR., who will be re-
membered as class historian, lives in Staunton, Va., and
is a special agent in this territory for Illinois Bankers
Life Assurance Co. He is unmarried.

Futton W. Hoes is practicing law in Los Angeles,
Calif. His firm is Williamson, Ramsay & Hoge. After
the war, in which Fulton was a second lieutenant, field
artillery, he took the LL.B. degree at Harvard law
school. He married Miss Jeannette Perry, of Kentucky.

Joun I.. McCuorp is practicing law in Cleveland,
Ohio, a member of the firm of Calfee and Fogg. His
address is 308 Euclid Avenue building.

Sam E. Moreton, Jr., manufacturers lumber in
Brookhaven, Miss. He married Miss Eola Williams,
and they have three children, Janis, Charles and James.

Ep K. NEtson, Jr., lives at 180 Baltic Circle, Tam-
pa, Fla. He has a son, Ed K., III, seven years old, and
Ed says it won’t be long before he is packing him off
to the Valley for school.

MarrHew W. Paxton, Jr., president of both Fancy
Dress and Finals in 1918, is practicing law and pub-
lishing the Rockbridge County News in Lexington. He
took the LL. B. degree at Yale in 1921. Matt married
Miss Nell Owen, of Lexington, and they have two sons,
Matthew W., III, and Robert Owen.

WILLIAM WarrEN SAGER is a surgeon in Washing-
ton, D. C., and his address is 815 Connecticut Avenue,
N. W. He married Miss Louise Gibbs Harmer, and they
have two sons and a daughter.

Joun Harvey SorrE ts is executive editor of. the
Scripps-Howard Newspapers, with offices at 230 Park
Avenue, New York. He married Miss Ruth Arnette,
and they have four children.

Orro M. SrumprF is practicing law in Richmond,
Va., with offices at 703 Mutual building. He was married

to Miss Thelma Ford, of Dumbarton, Va., on November
10, 1934, which, either by chance or intent, was the day
of the Washington and Lee-Virginia football game in
Charlottesville. They attended the game.

Murray C. SHoun is with E. A. Pierce & Co.,
Brokers, 44 Broad Street, Atlanta, Ga. He says he has
been in this line of business “to varying degrees’’ since
1920.

1919

After many nominations by the Alumni Secretary for
the position of class agent for 1919, all of which were
modestly declined, and feeling that this famous class
should not go unrepresented in the third annual round
of letters, the aforesaid Alumni Secretary nominated
himself and accepted this honorable post.

WALTER DUNLAP SEEBERT, engineering work in val-
uation, maintenance, and construction departments of
various railroads, now with State Health Department,
Bureau Sanitary Engineering (Shellfish Supervisor),
Belle Haven, Va. Is married and has a daughter, Alice
McFadden.

SipNEY STEINER SmitH, New Capitol building,
Frankfort, Ky. Is married and has two daughters, Kath-
erine Grant and Laura Jean.

Mercer Porter Surron, 406 American building,
Baltimore, Md. The innate modesty of some of my cor-
respondents is embarrassing to the editor. Porter is the
other bachelor of the class. Something will have to be
done about this.

Gites Sypnor Trerry, M.D., Medical College of
Virginia; Interneships—Tucker Sanatarium, Richmond,
Va., Willard Parker and Bellevue Hospitals, N. Y. C.;
resident physician, American Hospital of Paris, France;
private practice, Scarsdale, N. Y., since 1932. Married
Elizabeth 'verdaya and has one son, James Victor, born

June 12, 1933.

Rew Wuirs, Jr., M. D., University of Pennsylvania.
General practice of medicine and University Physician,
Washington and Lee, Lexington, Va. Married Alice Mil-
ler, of Montclair, N. J., and has a daughter, Edith Can-
ning, and a son, Reid White, III, born April 14, 1935.

FRANKLIN HicKMAN WIssLErR, Strathmore, Mt.
Jackson, Va. Farming and orcharding, special work in
eastern irrigation. Vice-president, Virginia State Horti-
cultural Society. Married and has a daughter, Dorothy
Page Wissler. We are always glad to see Frank at Home-
coming each year.

[ 26 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1920

WitiiaM E.. JouNston (BILL) a product of Rock-
bridge county and a mighty loyal alumnus is living at
219 Engle street, Tenafly, N. J. He married Miss Frieda
Atwood, and they have two children, William, Jr., and
Rosalie.

Kart H. Jounson (PIKE) gives his address as the
City Hall, Everett, Mass. He will be remembered as
Washington and Lee’s all-American tackle. He mar-
ried Miss Louise Irvin, and they have two children. Pike
played professional football for a short time after get-
ting out of the army. He is now secretary to the mayor
of Everett.

GEORGE JUNKIN IRWIN is teaching at Washington
and Lee. George was among the first to enlist in the
Washington and Lee ambulance unit. After the war he
taught a year in Richmond, a year at Princeton and then
took three years graduate work at Princeton.

CLAUDE C. JONEs is living at Arcadia,
Fla., where he is active in state and muni-
cipal affairs and a state officer in the - (Sy, ye
American Legion. During the war he “Wet
served fourteen months overseas as a cap- ,) 344A
tain. He married Miss Eva Ford, and
they have two children, Virginia and
Claude, Jr.

 

Joun W. Kern is mayor of the City
of Indianapolis, Ind. He married Miss
Bernice Winn, and they have one child, John W. Kern,
III. John will be remembered as a speaker of exceptional
ability and as valedictorian of the class. Before being
elected mayor he served four years as Judge of the Su-
perior court of Marion county.

KkmMMEt W. PoINDEXTER married Miss Wingfield
Hardy and they have one child, a boy, five years old. He
is an attorney and is associated with the firm of Iselin,
Riggs & Ferris at 120 Broadway, N. Y. Thoroughly in-
terested in Washington and Lee himself and says that
he believes most Washington and Lee men are loyal to
the University but that sometimes a spark is necessary to
revive that old loyalty. He thinks the class agent plan
may furnish that spark. Emmet was among the first to
contribute in 1933.

HotmeEs Ratston is pastor of the Presbyterian
church at Rockbridge Baths, Va. He married Mary
Long, and they have two children, Mary Long and

Holmes, III.

SHIRLEY JAMES Roppins married Miss Bernice
Beishline and they have a daughter, Dorothy. The Rob-

 
  
 

\.
4 f =
Ki RA

 

bins are living at 1000 Broadway, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.
For the past eight years he has been associated with the
Chevrolet Motor Company at 550 West 56th St., New
York City.

HorrE DANIEL STARK is now living at Lawrenceville,
Ga. Mrs. Stark was Miss Evelyn Small, and their two
sons are John, aged five years, and Homer, aged five
months. Hope tells us he has recently seen Harry Burns
and also Dean and Mrs. Owen (nee Katherine Glasgow
of Lexington, Va.)

1921

J. Epwarp Moy cer says: “I have two children, a boy
five and a girl one. The law practice is strenuous and
hard, and, therefore, enjoyable. On a recent business
trip to Harrisonburg I had the pleasure of a nice so-
ciable chat with my old roommate, Howard Gibbons, and
his attractive wife. They have three boys, all of whom
had retired and could not be seen. I hope
they favor their mother, and | don’t care
if Howard sees this in print. Being at a
girl's school he had a wide variety to pick
from and used good judgment.”

WILLIAM CECIL KENNEY was special
home office salesman for the Liberty Life
Insurance Co., Greenville, S. C., one year,
was agent one year and superintendent for
the past three years. He married Rachel
Angell Simmons. They have four children.

PriLip KOHEN is commonwealth’s attorney for Bote-
tourt county, Va. He lives at Buchanan, Va.; is married
and has one daughter, Betty.

ALFRED BENJAMIN LEVIN is representative agent
for the New York Life Insurance Co., 205 N. Pearl
Ave., Joplin, Mo. He married Gertrude Klein and they
have a son Alfred, Jr., aged eight years.

NORMAN JEFFERSON WaAvuGH is with the Riverside
and Dan River Cotton Mills, Inc., Danville, Va. He mar-
ried Stella Gwynn. They have two children, Norman
Jefferson and Stella Gwynn.

BENJAMIN HAyYNIE NEBLETT is a special attorney,
general counsels office, treasury department, Washing-
ton, D. C. His home is in Beverly Hills, Calif. He mar-
ried Alice M. Wiley, and they have two sons, John Dun-
can and Robert MacFarland.

Joun L. Parrerson is manager of the St. Louis
branch of the Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Co.,
552 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis, Mo. He married Mae Mea-

dors Patterson.

[ 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1927

Epwarp G. Isaacs, JR., is in the advertising depart-
ment of the Frankfort Distilleries, Inc., Louisville, Ky.
He married Lucy Anne Wakefield, and they have two
children, Anne Wakefield and Edward G., Jr.

THoMAS D. JEFFERSON is a tobacco buyer for the
W. H. Winstead Tobacco Co., of Baltimore, Md., and
the Jefferson Leaf Tobacco Co., Sparta, Wis. He mar-
ried Josephine Canfield.

James L,. JENNINGS married Gladys Wright. They
have two children, Edna and Jane, and live in Fayette-
ville, Tenn. He is president of the Hobbs-Sloan Co., re-
tail hardware store.

Witt1aAM Matr JENNINGS has been a breeder of
purebred Jersey cattle since 1929. During 1934 show
season won prizes at eight major shows in six different
states. Married Elizabeth Gassman, and A
they have a son, John Kelly, born March ff
24, 1934.

ARTHUR VINCENT KINNEy is sales
manager for the Veneer Products Co.,
225 Cooper building, Denver, Colorado.
He married Arlene E. Robinson, and
they have a daughter.

NicHoLas WILLIAM KLEIN received
his LL. B. from the University of Ken-
tucky. He is city attorney and county at-
torney of Greenup county, Kentucky.

VINCENT EDWARD LASCARA received
his M. D. from the Medical College of Virginia in 1934.
Interned at George Ben Johnson Memorial Hospital,
Abingdon, Va.

Jack Lowe lives in Tunica, Miss. His address is
Federal Land Bank.

Cart HERMAN MAGRILL is in the accounting de-
partment of the Pocahontas Fuel Company, Inc., Poca-
hontas, Va.

GrorcE F. MAYNARD, JR., is practicing law in Clarks-
dale, Miss., as a partner in the firm of Maynard, Fitz-
Gerald & Venable. He married Lucy Lee Jenkins, and
they have two children, George F. III and Elsie Jenkins.

LuTHER G. McKINNON is with the McKinnon Hard-
ware Co., De Funiak Springs, Fla.

Roy G. NicuHors has made many successful profes-
sional appearances, singing in concert, opera, and radio.
He is working on his master’s degree in music at Co-
lumbia.

 

Gurpon C. OLson is advertising manager of the Chi-
cago Paper Company, 801 South Wells, Chicago, Ill. He
married Alpha Johnson.

JAMES THAYER PATE is assistant superintendent,
Manhattan Eye, Kar and Throat Hospital, 210 East 64th
St., New York City.

Jor Wisk Pir’s is secretary of Brown-Roberts Hard-
ware & Supply Co., Ltd., at Alexandria, La. He married
Alice Roberts, and they have two children, Randolph
and Joe, Jr.

WiLLiAM M. Pope is office manager of Scott and
Stringfellow, Richmond, Va.

Harry O. Porver, JRr., is with the Goodyear Tire
and Rubber Co., in Nashville, Tenn.

LuTHER HERBERT REDCAY, administrative assistant
of Hanover Shoe Mfg. Co., Hanover, Pa. He married
Elizabeth Coleman, and they have two
children, Elizabeth and Helen.

Epwin Watson RICHARDSON was
traveling representative, Universal Credit
Company, for five years. Is now vice-
president and general manager Runkin-
Bayless Motor Co., Ford dealers, Tampa,
Fla. Married Daisy Bullard.

THOMAS JosEPH RussELL married
Dorothy Latane and is with the claim de-
partment of an insurance company in the
Richmond Trust building, Richmond, Va.

E;MERSON T. SANDERS (CURLY) is an
LL.B. of Duke University, class of 1930. Associate in
the law firm of Coulter & Allen, Burlington, N. C.

RoseErt WILBUR SIMMONS is pastor of the First
Church of Christ, Cornwall, Conn. He married Nell
Chapman, and they have a son, Robert Wilbur, Jr.

1928

CHARLES H. LinpFors is a certified public account-
ant and lives in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He married Miss
Mary Frances Golding, and they have one daughter.

ALTON RAGAN MIDDLEKAUFF is state bank examiner
for state of Maryland in charge of personal finance com-
panies. His address is Union Trust building, Baltimore,
Md. He married Dorothy D. Swimley and has a son,
Alton R. Middlekauff, Jr.

Epwarp Hawes MILLER received the degree of
LL. B. from Harvard in 1931. He is a member of the
law firm of E. T. and E. H. Miller, and assistant at-

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1927

Epwarp G. Isaacs, JR., is in the advertising depart-
ment of the Frankfort Distilleries, Inc., Louisville, Ky.
He married Lucy Anne Wakefield, and they have two
children, Anne Wakefield and Edward G., Jr.

TnomAS D. JEFFERSON is a tobacco buyer for the
W. H. Winstead ‘Tobacco Co., of Baltimore, Md., and
the Jefferson Leaf Tobacco Co., Sparta, Wis. He mar-
ried Josephine Canfield.

James L. JENNINGS married Gladys Wright. They
have two children, Edna and Jane, and live in Fayette-
ville, Tenn. He is president of the Hobbs-Sloan Co., re-
tail hardware store.

Wittram Marr JeNNINGS has been a breeder of
purebred Jersey cattle since 1929. During 1934 show
season won prizes at eight major shows in six different
states. Married Elizabeth Gassman, and
they have a son, John Kelly, born March
24, 1934.

ArtTHUR VINCENT KINNEY Is sales
manager for the Veneer Products Co.,
225 Cooper building, Denver, Colorado.
He married Arlene E. Robinson, and
they have a daughter.

NicuoLtas WILLIAM KLEIN received
his LL. B. from the University of Ken-
tucky. He is city attorney and county at-
torney of Greenup county, Kentucky.

VincENT Epwarp LAscarA received
his M. D. from the Medical College of Virginia in 1934.
Interned at George Ben Johnson Memorial Hospital,
Abingdon, Va.

Jack Lows lives in Tunica, Miss. His address is
Federal Land Bank.

Cart HerMAN MacriLt is in the accounting de-
partment of the Pocahontas Fuel Company, Inc., Poca-
hontas, Va.

GrorcE F. MAYNARD, JR., is practicing law in Clarks-
dale, Miss., as a partner in the firm of Maynard, Fitz-
Gerald & Venable. He married Lucy Lee Jenkins, and
they have two children, George F. III and Elsie Jenkins.

LutHEer G. McKinnon is with the McKinnon Hard-
ware Co., De Funiak Springs, Fla.

Roy G. Nicuots has made many successful profes-
sional appearances, singing in concert, opera, and radio.
He is working on his master’s degree in music at Co-
lumbia.

 

Gumon C. Orson is advertising manager of the Chi-
cago Paper Company, 801 South Wells, Chicago, Ill. He
married Alpha Johnson.

James THAYER PATE is assistant superintendent,
Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, 210 East 64th
St., New York City.

Jor Wisk Prrvs is secretary of Brown-Roberts Hard-
ware & Supply Co., Ltd., at Alexandria, La. He married
Alice Roberts, and they have two children, Randolph
and Joe, Jr.

WittiAM M. Pops is office manager of Scott and
Stringfellow, Richmond, Va.

Harry O. Porrer, JR., is with the Goodyear Tire
and Rubber Co., in Nashville, Tenn.

LurHeR Herpert Repcay, administrative assistant
of Hanover Shoe Mfg. Co., Hanover, Pa. He married
Elizabeth Coleman, and they have two
children, Elizabeth and Helen.

Epwin Watson RICHARDSON was
traveling representative, Universal Credit
Company, for five years. Is now vice-
president and general manager Runkin-
Bayless Motor Co., Ford dealers, Tampa,
Fla. Married Daisy Bullard.

Tuomas JosEPH RussELL married
Dorothy Latane and is with the claim de-
partment of an insurance company in the
Richmond Trust building, Richmond, Va.

Emerson ‘I’. SANDERS (CURLY) is an
LL. B. of Duke University, class of 1930. Associate in
the law firm of Coulter & Allen, Burlington, N. C.

Rosert Wi_spur Simmons is pastor of the First
Church of Christ, Cornwall, Conn. He married Nell
Chapman, and they have a son, Robert Wilbur, Jr.

1928

Cuarces H. Linprors is a certified public account-
ant and lives in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He married Miss
Mary Frances Golding, and they have one daughter.

Acton RAGAN MippLEKAUFF is state bank examiner
for state of Maryland in charge of personal finance com-
panies. His address is Union Trust building, Baltimore,
Md. He married Dorothy D. Swimley and has a son,
Alton R. Middlekauff, Jr.

Epwarp Hawes MILLER received the degree of
LL. B. from Harvard in 1931. He is a member of the
law firm of E. T. and E. H. Miller, and assistant at-

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

torney general of Missouri. Offices: 1610 Boatman’s
Bank building, St. Louis, Mo. He married Virginia
Brown, April 4, 1934.

Henry N. Mosts married Pauline Hopp, and they
have a daughter, Marjory Moses. They live at 3964 Ard-
more Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio.

Harry B. NEEL studied medicine at Johns Hopkins,
receiving his degree in 1932. At present is surgeon to
Camp S-58, Co. 1359, Paw Paw, W. Va.

I'REDERIC M. P. PEARSE, JR., class agent for 1928,
is in the general practice of law at 744 Broad street,
Newark, N. J. He married Emily Penick of Lexington,
Va., and they have a son, F. M. P. Pearse, III.

1929

Josgepu Louis Lockett, Jr., took his LL. B. degree
from the University of Texas law school in 1933. He is
associated with Andrews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell,
attorneys of Houston, Texas. There are now three Wash-
ington and Lee men in this firm.

RaLtpH McLANE lives at 204 West Brainard street,
Pensacola, Fla. He was admitted to the Florida bar in
1930, and has since practiced in Pensacola; two years
as assistant county solicitor of Escambia county, Fla.,
and three years in private practice. At present he is in
partnership with John M. Coe, practicing under the firm
name of Coe & McLane.

CHARLES Hart MILLER graduated from the Univer-
sity of Kentucky in 1929 with an A. B. degree in jour-
nalism. Entered the United States Army Primary Fly-
ing School at March Field, Calif., graduated there, and
went to the advanced school at Kelly Field, Texas. After
graduation there went to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, for six-
teen months of active duty with the 88th Observation
Squadron. Re-entered the University of Kentucky to
take preparatory work for a graduate degree in Aero-
nautical Engineering. Received the degree of Aero E.,
from N. Y. University in June, 1934. Since that time has
been connected with the Old Lewis Hunter Distillery
in the capacity of Junior Engineer. He is married and
his home is in Millersburg, Ky.

Jack MINER has been doing experimental work in
steel house construction. Now placing the product on
the market. The name of the firm with which he is con-
nected is “Structo, Inc.,” Kansas City.

ALLEN MorGAan has been working for bond depart-
ment of the First National Bank of Memphis, Tenn.,
for six years, now being assistant manager, bond de-
partment.

CHARLES D. MERCKE is with the Jefferson Wood-
working Co., of Louisville, Ky.

JAMES MurpocH SHACKELFORD took the degree of
B.S. in Business and Engineering Administration in
1932 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Since
that time has been with T. W. Grant Co., International
Business Machines Company and John Manville Co.

1930

LAURENCE Foore is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Fla., at the Law Exchange building.

Harorp E. FrANcis lives at 1427 Chapin St., N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

W. VAN GILBERT was register of circuit court in
equity, Limestone county, Alabama, until January 15,
1935. Now practicing law in Athens, Ala.

JERRY GRASHORN received the degree of J.D. from
Northwestern Law school. Is practicing law with Win-
ston Strawn & Shaw, at 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Il.

EDWARD GRAVES took his LL. B. degree from Har-
vard in June.

WititiAm H. Hawkins is handling foreign credit
and collection work with E. I. duPont de Nemours &
Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.

James Noau HEss is in the manufacturing office of
Carbide and Carbon Chemical Company, South Charles-
ton, W. Va.

HERBERT HAUNCKE spent one year in graduate
school at Harvard. Since then in the building material
business in New Orleans, La. He married Margaret
Henriques.

Murret H. Kaptan received his M.D. from the
University of Louisville in 1934. He is interning at Turo
Infirmary, New Orleans, La.

KENNETH L,. KeErv is in the insurance business—
Penn Mutual Life of Philadelphia. He lives at 653 W.
Vine St., Springfield, Ill.

Puro Linpsky is an official in the Lindsey Lumber
and Export Co., of Mobile, Ala.

Joun Puitip Lyncn, Jr., received his M. D. from
the Medical College of Virginia in May, 1935. He will
be in the State of Wisconsin General Hospital, Madi-
son, Wis., for a year serving his internship.

Witit1amM Hitt Marszu is with the Fayetteville Sup-
ply Company, wholesale automobile parts, Fayetteville,
North Carolina.

[ 30 ]

SS a

i ie ii 2 ey ee

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

WALTER HASKELL MARSHALL lives at 1935 Boule-
vard, Jacksonville, Fla. He is with the Jacksonville
Journal.

F. GarLaAnp May, Jr., lives at 318 Harding Ave.,
Pine Bluff, Ark.

JAMES BERNARD Merrick has been principal of
Church Hill High school, Church Hill, Md., since 1932.

Harry CLIFFORD MITCHELL lives at 1440 Okeechobee
Road, West Palm Beach, Fla.

Morris CARPENTER MONTGOMERY is a member of
the law firm of Montgomery & Montgomery, Liberty,
Casey county, Ky.

Davip H. Moreton is superintendent of the Cen-
tral Lumber Company Mill at Quenten, Miss.

GRAHAM Morison is practicing law in Bristol, Va.
His firm is Morrison, Morrison & Rouse.

Joun T. Moscw# is project engineer,
government works division, on local pro-
ject at Tarr, W. Va. He married Mildred
[. Wilson.

Ropert Mitt1AM MosL-ey lives at 1915
Robinson Ave., Conway, Ark.

Joun H. NEtson—“school teacher in

the winter, tobacco business in summer.”
He lives at 1708 N. Main St., Danville, Va.

 

Tatcotr CHAPMAN LANCASTER is in the laboratory
of Electra Metallurgical Co., a subsidiary of Carbide and
Carbon Chemical Corporation. He married Aline Juanita
Lavandar, and they live at Alloy, W. Va.

3ENJAMIN LAMPTON [&wis had one year of grad-
uate work at Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
He is now with the Franklin county relief administra-
tion at Columbus, Ohio.

RANDOLPH G. LuURIE was at the University of North
Carolina one year and at the University of Alabama two
years, receiving his LL. B. in 1931.

“RED” MAHLER, JR., has completed his second year
at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

DUNCAN MCCONNELL is a teaching fellow at Stan-
ford University. He married Jane Washington Willis,
and they live at 475 Harvard St., Palo Alto, Calif.

CirirtoN HAwkins McMILLaAn, Jr.,
is with the D’Arcy Advertising Company
of St. Louis, Mo.

SAM MILLINER, JR., is employed by
the DuPont Company. He married Ola
Allen Kilmon, and lives at 1020 N. Jack-
son Street, Wilmington, Del.

l.Loyp A. Myers, JR., is sales mana-
ger for the Black Diamond Trailer Co.,

Bristol, Tenn.-Aa. He married Lilian
a) UMM ns
Suurorp R. Nicuots, after Harvard Aan e =>. ed ahs and they have a daughter,
Business Sela tn 44 fie Gas baa ae on Barbara Thurmond, three years old.
————— —_—
aes

in Des Arc, Ark.

Morton EvpripcE PApcEet?, JR., is in partnership
with John B. Oliver, LL. B., 1930, in the practice of
law, at Bedford, Va.

Mike PALMER is practicing law in San Antonio,
Texas, with the firm of Moursund, Moursund & Berg-
strom, 613 Frost National Bank building.

1931

Kart MIDDLEKAUF SMITH is manager of Colgate
Inn, Hamilton, N. Y.

HERMAN LACKEY has been employed, since April,
1931, with the Southern Mineral Products Corporation,
Piney River, Va. He is in the chemical research depart-
ment. He married Dorothy Virginia McGuffin.

BEVERLY LAMBERT has been in the cotton business in
Forrest City, Ark., since his graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee. Is in Holly Grove, Ark., during the spring
and summer months. He married Rose Hess, and they
have a son, Beverly Joel Lambert, ITI.

——.

=

JouHn Westcotr Myrosgé was for
three years at Princeton Seminary, graduated in 1934.
Since then Sunday school missionary in Houston Presby-
tery under the Board of National Missions of the Pres-
byterian Church, U. S. A.

1932

KEMPER JENNINGS took his master’s degree from
Columbia in 1933, was six months with the United States
Geological Survey; is now professor of English, De
Funiak Springs, Fla.

ZEBULON VANCE JOHNSON, JR., took his law degree

from the University of Richmond. He lives at Forest
Hills, Danville, Va.

WILLIAM CLARENCE KIMBRELL is credit manager of
the Martin-Hawkins Furniture Co., Greenville, S. C.

FRANK BELL L&Ewis is a student at the Union Theo-
logical Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Harry L. McCarrny has been teaching in Coving-
ton, Va., for two years.

[ 31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jack Gorpon Marks has finished his law work at
Columbia and has entered his father’s law firm, Marks
and Marks, 535 5th Ave., N. Y.

LAWRENCE HAmMpton NorMAN is secretary to the
auditor and general office manager of the Lion Oil Re-
fining Company, at El Dorado, Ark.

C. P. Lee, Jr., is a Rhodes Scholar at Exeter Col-
lege, Oxford, England.

1933

JoHN GRIFFITHS, JR., lives at 41 Marshall St., Pough-
keepsie, N. Y.

GrorGE HAviLtAND HaGaporn, Jr., is teller in the
National Commercial Bank and Trust Company, Al-
bany, N. Y.

Jot Martin INGRAM attended Cumberland Univer-
sity School of Law in Lebanon, Tenn.; LL. B. Woodrow
Wilson College of Law in Atlanta, Ga., June, 1934; ad-
mitted to Tennessee bar in June, 1934; practicing law in
Columbia, Tenn., since June, 1934, as member of the
firm of Smiser and Ingram.

EBEN JACKSON lives at 20 Poplar St., Danvers, Mass.

JoHN Wabe JoNEs received his B. A. degree from
Virginia Polytechnic Institute in 1933 and has been
managing a hardware store under the name of A. L.
Jones & Sons, Gordonsville, Va., since July 1, 1933.

CHARLES WESLEY KAUFMAN is married to Coleen
Virginia Over. He is research chemist for National
Fruit Product Co., Martinsburg, W. Va.

CHARLES JAMES LONGACRE has been employed by
the Bankers Trust Company of New York since Sep-
tember, 1933, in the accounting department. He is now
in the tax division. His address is 32 Raymond Ter-
race, Elizabeth, N. J.

1934

Hunter JoNEs has a job with the United States
Steel Corporation. His address is First National Bank
building, Baltimore, Md.

Louis LuBrREcHT has been associated with Price,
Waterhouse & Co., public discounting firm, since No-
vember, 1934, at 112 West 49th St., Apt. 12, New York.

CLAUDE LAVARRE was sent to Peru by the Singer
Sewing Machine Company in November, 1934. After
about a year’s training he will be an auditor and travel
between the Singer shops in Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador.
His address is care of Singer Sewing Machine Co., Edi-
ficio La Auxiliar, Casilla 1460, Lima, Peru.

Howarp KELLEy is a law clerk in the offices of
Beery & Adlman, Paterson, N. J.

Victor MARSHALL is in the medical department of
the University of Virginia.

GEorGE McCcure is with the Aetna Insurance Co.,
Republic National Bank building, Dallas, Texas.

1935

BustErR Co.insky is living at 3603 Colonial Ave.,
Norfolk, Va.

Lewis Harvey received his A.B. degree from
George Washington in June. His address is 709 Prince
St., Alexandria, Va.

Guy B. Hays has been assistant coach of the El
Dorado High school for the past three years. His ad-
dress is Box 422, E] Dorado, Ark.

Bos MUNGER was a sophomore medical student at
Tulane last year. His address in New Orleans is the
Ponchertrain Apts., New Orleans, La.

TRAvis OLIVER, JR., received his LL. B. degree from
Louisiana State University and is now engaged in the
practice of law in Monroe, La.

1936

JoHN CARLYLE NAGLE attended the school of den-
tistry at Temple University, Philadelphia, last year. His
address is 935 Clay Ave., Scranton, Pa.

“Rosy” ROBERTSON is a salesman for the Standard
Oil Co., of New Jersey. He married Martha Shelton,
and their home address is 429 Wellington Ave., South
Roanoke, Va.

ByrAM LEE WINTERS, JR., is selling cars for the
Arnold Motor Co., 25 Church St., Oswego, N. Y.

KENNETH E. STEPHENSON is with the engineering
department of the United States Forest Service, Buena
Vista, Va.

1937

Bos Lorton is with the national advertising de-
partment of the Tulsa Daily World. His home address
is ‘“Lortondale” Ranch, Tulsa, Okla.

ArTHUR P. G. McGINNESs, Jr., attended Lehigh Un-
iversity last session. His home address is Gulf and Cro-
ton Roads, Wayne, Pa.

Rupy RICHARDSON is living at 2283 S$. Overbrook
Road, Cleveland, Ohio. He is a student assistant—Sta-
tion WGAR (NBC).

 

[ 32 |

CO  —

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washineton and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal
Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Ir., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building

Atlanta, Georgia

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law
Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

 

_ Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preterence.

 

 

 

 

    
    
 
    
    
 
 
 
  

 

‘on ;
’ $ ae wt

@ corkin g mt cigarette...

 
 

_ they’ve been hitting the trail

with me for a long -
They are milder... not ‘flat
or insipid but with a pleas-

“ing flavor

ie ott Meat er bey have plenty of taste

ie a ae ae Stee be .... not strong but just right

£
>
Cs
Ne

An outstanding cigarette
,, no doubt about it

© 1936, LicGeTr & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

