dZiNe

@vS\|

IV

Na

|

|

of Washington and [ee

a)

ty

 

RARY OF

L'T’S

x
.
~

\ AR

.

rarTT’*?
-

 

Ze VO Ev Ry tale te Seb e C.F: 2uaDae

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

is directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
fessions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-

  

Th

the various pro :
| at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
Devocation are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are :nvited to place their cards

E ie directory. Rates on application.

— ee
R. E. MOORE ; 12.’
THOS. F. OGILVIE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW . +3 |
Suite 303 ws aIONGS Bank Geivcr ne” Chae RC Gek an
Building |

Atlantic City, N. J. Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.

Bluefield, W. Va.

 

 

 

a
 pHILIP P. GIBSON, ’13-’15, Lawyer ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
General practice in all State ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

25-29 Citizens National Bank
and Federal Courts 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building Building

Suite 814 Union Bank & Trust Co.

 

 

| tla ey

Bldg., Huntington, West Va. Atlanta, Georgia Parkersburg, W. Va.

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE ‘JAMES R. CASKIE, '09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus Exchange Building. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building

Tampa, Florida wr
Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

 

 

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman
the Alumni, Inc. Sams Wv. See
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE ere y SMITHERMAN, T UCKER & MASON
E. C. CAFFREY, 09 Law Offices
Commercial National Bank
Shreveport, Louisiana

Compliments of the President of

 

——

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN
SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Suite 881 Mills Building
Departments H. B. Moors, Principal

Meciate Inesuelain-deeeiniaell San Francisco, Caltfornia

1100 Investment Building Telephone Sutter 3363
Washington, D. C.

J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Miami, and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are
usually 1 or 2 openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. & L. alumni have the preference.

a ae ee es ee ee

N

 

G S ECT

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR
COMPANY, Inc.

DODGE BROS. SALES and SERVICE
Chrysler and Austin Cars

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 Cents

 

 

For the Sake of Auld Lang

Syne

Order a Virginia Smoke
Cured Ham

From

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON POO
COMPANY |

 

“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always the Gathering Place Of

 

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIEND

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert EF. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid

   

$1.50
1.50

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 
     

HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
f. C. Carrrey, President E. L. Grawam, Jr., Treasurer Harry K. Youne, Editor

OL. V! JANUARY, 1931 NO. 3
Intered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

     
  
 

 

 

GON TE NDS

PAGE PAGE
The Endless Chain of W. & Ly.........:.scccssscceseeees 2 The Last OF Gabe ois eases cise sicosccsscds petal 19
Alumnus Dies in Air. Crash...............c:ccsecccessreeed 3 Stamp Copy Furnished.................ccssssssssees seseenees 19
; Rockwell Writes of Legiom..............sscesseseeees 3 Troubadours Give “Journey’s End”...........00000 19
. Ran Whittle Was of the Old School................. 3 1930 Good Sports Year at W. & Lh... cesses. 20
| Ten Alumni Prominent on Bench...............:..+ + Oberst Leaves SB talk.i...205000... Sis e.. 20
Judge Robert Ewing, ’68...........ccccccecseseeeseseees 6 Dean Pleads for Cultural Arts... 21
David Laird 86:cislicee ect b..teek 6 St. Clair Gives $25,000.............ssssssssesssseesseseees 21
Robin Hood at Fancy Dress.............:.:cscsseeseeees 6 “Monk” No. II Now in Insurance Business......21
: The First Calyx Re-Viewed.........::sccssesseseeees 7 Commerce—A Study in Growth... 22
F PHot” Ebert Leaves COrmetiss.s....c5 uted 8 Arcades Club Becomes D. U. Chapter............. 24
Homecoming Draws Manyy...........:c:sseseeee 8 DEATHS:
Editors Gather at W. & L. in January.............. 9 David Sein MO on... kd. aie Lccapatsvavine JO
General Lee, the Educator of BoyS........:.::-:0 10 Jess R. Haintline, ’20...........csseseseseeeneees 24
‘Alumni DRRee ie Bear ta are Thad ae eenIOh.. . antl, Miia wigs tetecees 25
Charles M. Barrow, ’86...........::sssscseee 25
Henry Clemmer Pursues Golf as Vocation........ i
Samuel McCain Young, ’98...........cceeee 25
Calendar Shows Busy Yeat.................cccccssssseess 14 ep ee GS) a Ua 25
O.D.K. Taps Nineteen............... ins cbbaplse NaS TOREON 16 Rev.. Alexander F.' Laird, °79........c.0s+. 27
Seventeen Alumni Teaching at W. & L.............. 17 HG. Binwik: Stabs: \:. chip eee,
Charleston Lawyer a Cue Wizard...............004 19 Persoinals....cicki access eo aetaceiaeie--..cthe 30
=

 

 

 

[1]

ee es

The Endless Chain of W. and L.

 

way N ENDLESS chain leads from the Univer-
ey ee sity out into the world of Alumni and back
—{2% \acain to the doors of Washington and Lee.
Each link is a local Alumni Association which holds
the chain together.

The chain begins on the Washington and Lee
campus at the office of the Alumni Secretary. It
stretches to New York and New Jersey. From there
it comes down again to Washington, D. C., and goes
on to Richmond, Roanoke, and Lynchburg. Out
from Virginia it leads down to Atlanta, further down
to Jacksonville, then across to Pensacola. Pensacola
links New Orleans, and New Orleans links Helena,
Arkansas, where we can rest a bit, and look back over
the chain. It stretches on again to Birmingham, then
to Memphis, then up to Louisville, where it crosses
Kentucky into Huntington and Charleston, W. Va.
Back over the Virginia line once more, the chain closes
on the link that started it in the Alumni Building, on
the Washington and Lee campus.

The figure still holds good for the Secretary and
alumni along the way, are forging new links for the
chain; local Alumni Clubs are to be formed at Char-
lotte, N. C., Southern California, and Detroit, Michigan,
Two more clubs in the making are the Ohio Valley
association, and in Virginia, the combined Clifton
Forge and Covington organizations.

How many alumni are there, and what does the
Alumni Association mean to W. & L.? There are
seventy-five hundred alumni. Without them and the
support they give to the University, without their or-
ganization into local Alumni Clubs, and without their
constant contact with the college, we would sink. They
help to man the vessel.

President Gaines has stimulated a new interest.
Alumni have written that they were anxious to meet
our new president. There is no one more enthusias-
tic than he about strong and active Alumni organiza-
tions. Dr. Gaines has planned to pay a visit to every
local club next year.

The Alumni Clubs have a very definite purpose,
and are important to the whole University organization
and administration. At Lynchburg and Memphis, for
instance, the clubs give a banquet, or reception, or
dance, to the high school boys. ‘They talk about W.
& L,. and interest the youths in the school. We get
many new men in this way, and the alumni know how
to select representative boys.

The New York club is specially active. ‘They
have a standing committee whose members interview
and recommend new students. You see how impor-
tant this work is, because it is influential in sending

 

 

 

 

[2]

Ao OU a eee

MAGA’ Z 1 a

  
 
   
 
 
   
    
   
    
  
    
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  

boys to the University with exceptional recommen
tions. It keeps the spirit of the school alive, this ¢
stant contact of Alumni, students, and campus.

The situation is unique here, because the sch
is non-denominational. All support and benefit cor
from Alumni and philanthropic friends whom they °
able to interest in the school.

For this reason we should be interested in
local alumni organizations a strong part of the wh
administration. Each club, by the By-Laws of
Association, has three committees. The first, a pr
pective student committee, awards each year one alt
ni scholarship, with the approval of the University.
publicity committee reports news of the local club
Alumni Magazine to the newspapers, and sees that
papers publish dispatches from the University N
Service department. The third committtee coopera
with and advises the University administration re
tive to securing gifts and bequests for Washing
and Lee needs. As for the Alumni publication,
local club tries to get its members to become subscrib
You see how vital these organizations can be
local clubs over the entire country contribute to
scheme.

Dr. Houser, of Richmond, is doing great
along with Jewett, Stumps, Coles, and others.
Louisville are Hobson, Veech, Kneblecamp, all do
their parts. Maynard Holt, Sammy Raines, Jol
Speed, in Memphis, support the local associati
splendidly.

The New York Association, with Edward W. 1
as secretary, have a wide awake organization, and wk
they hold their luncheon meeting every month, thi
or forty old graduates are present. Annual meeti
are held as near Lee’s birthday as possible.
Founder’s Day meeting brings them over from
Jersey and adjacent communities.

Thus the links of the chain are made stronger,
thus the links are turned and fitted into each oth
binding the graduate with the University, keeping é
the spirit between the old men and new men, the we
and the University.

Every Alumnus is urged to write to Alumni he
quarters at any time. They are urged to use the sch
and the Alumni office for information relative to th
old friends and their activities. "The Alumni Mag
is published five times a year, and there is no bet
way of keeping in close touch with Alma Mater th
by subscribing to this Magazine, and sending in to
office for publication any and all news of Alumni.

The Association belongs to the Alumni, it is $1
ported by them, and each man can help to make it

 

m= iH EB MAAS a a

—— |
ALUMNUS DIES IN AIR CRASH

Jairus Collins, B. S., ’25, Law, 1928, was instantly
Killed in an air plane accident on Sunday afternoon,
Nov. 9, 1930.

The plane crashed near Verona, six miles north
of Staunton. In the plane with Collins, who was a
icensed pilot, were Greenlee Bauerman and Sam Driver,
of Mount Sidney, who were also instantly killed, and
Paul Rimes, who was seriously injured.

Collins, who lived in Bluefield, W. Va., had been
making Sunday visits to Staunton in his four-passenger
cabin plane and had been doing a brisk passenger busi-
ness. ‘lhe plane was at a height of 500 feet and was
coming out of a left vertical bank after having climbed
sharply when it went into a tail spin and out of control
of the pilot.

Jairus Collins was prominent on the campus of
Washington and Lee. He was a member of the Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity, of O. D. K., Sigma, Editor of
the Mink in 1926, president of the Square and Compass,
and of the Intermediate Law Class. Since leaving
school he had been practicing law in Bluefield.

He is survived by his wife, before their marriage,
Miss Lucillle Grasy of Staunton. The home of Mrs.
Collins’ father had been burned to the ground on the
morning of the accident.

I

Mi Al G: A -Zitd ee

ROCKWELL WRITES OF LEGION

A new volume added to the shelf of books in the
Alumni Building, written by Alumni, entitled Ameri-
can Fighters in the Foreign Legion, has an unusual
interest for all Washingtori and Lee men.

author, was one of the
in the Legion in August,
true story of the Ameri-
war in the most romantic

Paul A. Rockwell, the
first Americans to volunteer
1914. This book tells the
cans who served during the
fighting unit the world has ever known.

Fiction fades and legends of adventure wane be-
fore this simple narrative of the scions of Mayflower
passengers and naturalized Americans, jockeys and
artists, millionaire sportsmen and mechanics, butchers
and philosophers, thugs and evangelists who passed
through the mill to come out “blood-brothers” in an in-
spired fighting machine.

Picturesque tragedy, ragged romance, high cour-
age and heroic achievement from the French front to
Morocco make th‘s a book which will win a wide au-
dience both as a thrilling tale and as sound history.

The book is well gotten up, contains forty-two il-
lustrations, is pubiished by the Houghton Mifflin Com-
pany and may be had from them at $5.00 a copy.

 

Ran Whittle Was of the “Old School”

“T didn't know there was anyone like him in existence. He
belongs to the period of 1860.”
That’s what one of Ran Whittle’s fellow students said

about him while they were attending Washington and Lee. The
reference to 1860 designated Whittle as the perfect Southern
Gentleman—one of the old school.

Maybe you don’t recognize him as “Ran.” His whole
name is Randolph S$. Whittle, but from a brother before him he
inherited the nickname “Booze,” and this clung to him through-
out his stay at W. & L., from 1918 to 1924. Those who re-
member him know this nickname in no way implied any indul-
gence unbecoming a cavalier of 1800.

His outstanding achievement here was election to the
Presidency of the student body, a position he filled admirably
during 1922-23, his fourth year in college. In his final year,
1923-24, he was granted the LL.B. degree.

Whittle was a member of the Phi Kappa Sigma social
fraternity, and was elected to membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa. He belonged to the “13” club, the Cotillion Club, Pi
Alpha Nu, and Square and Compass.

Besides fraternal affiliations, he was a member of the E.xe-
cutive Committee, active on the Debating Council, and an oarsman on the Harry Lee crew.

His interest in Washington and Lee did not lanse after he attained his degree. Always an en-
thusiastic alumnus, he is now president of the Roanoke Alumni Association. In that city he is en-

 

gaged in practicing law.
During his college career, Whittle’s home was in Martinsville, Virginia.

 

 

 

[3]

= View oes

Ten Alumni Prominent on Bench

T LEAST ten alumni of Washington and Lee
NN have achieved fame as judges. A survey of
Alumni records of the University shows that
of the many graduates of the Washington and Lee
School of Law these ten have passed from the bar to
the bench, where they now serve. Others not men-
tioned may have been equally as fortunate, but records
show the following in important judicial posts:
Robert Francis Hutcheson, Joseph A. Glasgow, J.
R. Alexander, Don P. Halsey, A. G. Lively, Benjamin
Haden, T. L. Keister, Benjamin Dey White, Horace
Sutherland, and A. C. Buchanan.

   

Since leaving Washington and Lee, Mr. Keister
has practiced law in Salem, Virginia. He is now judge
of the Twentieth Judicial Circuit of Virginia. He

 

a
T. L. K&ISTER

served as a lieutenant in the Field Artillery during the

World War.

Robert Francis Hutcheson attended Washigton
and Lee for one session, 1908-09.
bar before leaving the University, and was admitted to

He passed the state

Ares: U: see Ea

[4]

   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  

M A G A Z Tam

practice law in July, 1909. He located at Charlo
H., Va., and practiced law alone for a year, and
formed a partnership with the late Andrew J, |
under the firm name of Terry and Hutcheson,
was terminated by the death of Mr. Terry. }
Mr. Hutcheson was married to Lucy N.
ton of Charlotte, C. H., on November 27, 1913. 4
have three children. He served during the World
as chairman of the Legal Advisory Board, and \
Red Cross and Liberty Loan speaker. |
Mr. Hutcheson was elected to the Virginia E
of Delegates in 1918, to succeed Hon. Berkle
Adams, and served two terms. He was not a @
date for re-election after this. 4
In 1919 he formed a partnership with J.
Early (W. L. 1918.) ‘The firm was called Hutel
and Early. 5
Mr. Hutcheson was appointed Judge of the
Judicial Circuit, by Governor Trinkle in 1924, and
elected by the succeeding legislature.

Don P. Halsey was born in Lynchburg, Vay)
29, 1870. He was educated in public schools of
burg, at the Episcopal High School, and at Ham
Sidney College. He studied law at Washington
Lee University.

After leaving college a returned to Lynehi
began the practice of law, and has been recog
throughout the state as an able and successful lay
In 1901 he was elected state senator from Lynch
and Campbell County, and served with distinction”
ing the long session following the constitutional
vention. He was returned to the state, and sé
through the sessions of 1908 and 1910. In July,1
he volunteered as a Y. M. C. A. worker, went to Fr
and spent a year in that organization. Mr. Hals
one of the best speakers in Virginia and one Of
most active and zealous workers for the Demoe
party.

In April, 1925, he was appointed by Cowl
Trinkle to succeed Judge W. B. Barksdale, and:
later elected by the general assembly to that office

In 1894, Mr. Halsey married Miss Mary Mieh
Dickinson. |

Joseph Anderson Glasgow was born at Mont#
Fincastle, Botetourt County, Virginia, March 31, #

After being prepared for college in the schoo
Fincastle, he entered Washington and Lee Univer
took an academic course at that institution, and v
wards taught school for one session near Frank
Kentucky. He returned to Washington and Lee %

  

ae UE
—-
yersity and entered the Law school, which was then

resided over by Professor Charles A. Graves and Hon-
orable John Randolph Tucker, graduating with the class
of 1891. At the commencement of 1890 he was award-
ed the orators’ medal in a contest between representa-
tives of the Graham-Lee and Washington literary so-
cieties.

In the fall of 1891 he started the practice of law
in Staunton, Virginia, where he has lived ever since.
He was elected Commonwealth’s Attorney for the city
of Staunton, was some years later elected Police Justice,
and served in that office for several years.

When the Great War came, he was appointed
Chairman of the Liberty Loan Committee for Augusta
County and was very active in organizing the Liberty
Loan forces. He was always in the general practice
of law.

When Judge Holt was elected Judge of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals in 1928, Mr. Glasgow was ap-
pointed by Governor Byrd to fill the vacancy as judge
of the 18th Judicial Circuit, and was afterwards elected
by the legislature to that office .

The circuit is made up of the counties of Augusta,
Rockbridge, and Highland and includes Staunton and
the city of Buena Vista.

In 1896 he married Miss Maria Washington Ran-
son, daughter of the late Captain Thomas D. Ranson,
who was a member of the board of trustees of Wash-
ington and Lee University. Judge and Mrs. Glasgow
have five children.

Benjamin Haden received his A. B. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1912, and his LL.B. in 1915.

He returned to his home in Fincastle, Va., and
practiced law with his father, Benjamin Haden, Sr.,
until the latter’s death in 1921. He was elected Judge
of the nineteenth Judicial District in February, 1930.
This district comprises the Counties of Alleghany,
Bath, Botetourt and Craig, and the City of Clifton
Forge.

He married Miss Anne Claiborne Spiller, of Fin-
castle. They have two children, Mary Lynn Haden
and Benjamin Haden, Jr.

From his admission to the bar on Feb. 15,
1906, J. R. H. Alexander, ’05, practiced law at Lees-
burg, Va., until 1929, when he became a judge. On
Feb. 4, 1927, he was appointed to fill a vacancy in the
Office of the Attorney for the Commonwealth for Lou-
doun county, was in the same year, elected to the
Same office for a term of four years, and continued
In that capacity until appointed judge of the twenty-
Sixth Judicial Circuit on May 1, 1929, to serve until
the convening of the 1930 Legislature, by which he was
elected for a term expiring Feb. 1, 1939.

Ay as 2M Ned

Miwhc ws A @oe ime vee

After receiving his LL.B. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1912, A. G. Lively settled in Russell County,
Va., at Honaker, where he practiced law. In 1919 he
moved to the county seat at Lebanon, where he formed
a partnership with W. W. Bird, under the firm name of
Bird and Lively.

Mr. Lively was Examiner of Records for his
Circuit Court for four years, and was later elected
Judge of the twenty-seventh judicial district.

 

Daa ene Re OE VERS
A. G. LIVELY

He was married to Miss Lillian Perkins, of Stuart,
Va., Nov. 12, 1914. They have one son, A. G. Lively,

Jr.

Benjamin Dey White, 1889, is Judge of the
Twenty-ninth Judicial District.

Horace Sutherland, LL.B., ’17, is Judge of the
Twenty-first Judicial District.

A. C. Buchanan, LL.B., 714, is Judge of the
Twenty-second Judicial District.

 

James A. Lee, 17, is a member of the editorial
staff of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, a
McGraw-Hill publication. Previously he was on the
technical staff of the Bell Telephone Company.

[5]

Ronee AeA Sie

JUDGE ROBERT EWING, ’68

A recent issue of The Tower, the official publica-
tion of Watkins Institute, of Nashville, Tenn., is dedi-
cated to Judge Robert Ewing, ‘68.

We quote as follows:

Members of the Journalism class, who write and
edit The ‘Tower, feel that this is the proper time to pay
much deserved trib-
ute to one who has
been very close to the
class and to one whose
kind and wise counsel
has contributed to the
success of the paper.

Therefore this
issue has been dedi-
cated to Judge Robert
Ewing, ever a friend
of the youth of Ten-
nessee, and a willing
aide to all who seek
to better themselves
by education.

Judge Ewing
looks back on years
rich in achievement
and association. As
a student he knew the great Robert E. Lee. His fel-
low citizens have honored him with public office. He
has been attorney, manufacturer and journalist. He is
and always has been closely associated with the leading
educational institutions of Nashville. Watkins Institute
and The ‘Tower are indeed fortunate.”

 

 

DAVID LAIRD, ’86

David Laird, ’86, state manager for the Southern
Bell Telephone Company of Florida, died December 1,
at his home in Jacksonville, Fla.

He was a native of Rockbridge county and was
buried in the Lexington cemetery. He was a son of
David E. Laird and Nannie Edmondson McCluer Laird
and was sixty-three years old. His father was one of
the founders of Fancy Hill academy and later conducted
a classical school in Lexington, where Mr. Laird re
ceived his early education. He entered Washington
and Lee University and was a member of the class of
1886. Following his college career he taught school
for a few years and then went with the telephone com-
pany in the management of which he was steadily pro-
moted for his efficiency and character. Fle had been
associated with the company for over thirty years. He
married in 1912 Miss Mary Preston Moore of Lexing-
ton, who survives him.

Ly
VV

A 304 pound bear was shot by hunters near Laurel
Run in Goshen Pass during the November season.

I

[6]

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

MY AY. G. A. Za

ROBIN HOOD AT FANCY DRESS

Hal Kemp and his Brunswick recording ore}
have been booked by W. H. Tallyn of Scranton,
President of the 1931 Fancy Dress Ball, to pla
that dance and the other two dances of the set,
Prom and the morning dansant on the day ¢
Ball.

Hal Kemp is very popular for college dance
last year played for North Carolina and V.
major dance sets. His record of the Washing
ee Swing is considered by many to be the best re
ing ever made of that famous song.

The Fancy Dress figure this year will rep
the reconciliation of Robin Hood and the Sher
Nottingham by the King of England, and the
of the truce will be the King’s palace. Fifty-one
will compose the figure, which is to be divide¢
groups as follows:

King Richard Coeur de Lion, W. H. Tallyn.

Courtiers ; Ethan Allen, Summit, N. J.; 5.1L.
shaw, Richmond; W. A. Glasgow, Staunton, Vz
H. Adams, Conway, Ark. .

Robin Hood; J. W. Devine, Lynchburg, Va. :

Sheriff of Nottingham; Horace Gooch, Jr.,
rado Springs, Colo. 7

The “merry men”, first group; led by C. W.
Tulsa, Okla., as Little John, and composed of ten

The “merry men”, second group; led by |
Lambert, Holly Grove, Ark., as Will Scarlet, :
members.

The “merry men”, third group; led by C. H
Millan, St. Louis, Mo., as Allen-a-Dale, with ten @

The “merry men”, fourth group; led by
Jones, Batesburg, S. C., as “George-a-Green”, al
companied by ten men. .

C. E. L. Gill, former Washington and Lee f
sor and a graduate of the class of ’21, made hi
famous by his brilliant and original schemes of ¢
tion for Fancy Dress. He was director of
for several years, and his loss will be keenly fel
‘Tallyn, assisted by Mrs. Beverly Tucker, hopes
able to overcome this disadvantage and _ believes
the Ball will be as fine this year as it has bee :
past.

Ly
Vv

Henry P. Johnston, B. A., ’29, has return
Alabama, after spending a year in the advertising
ness in New York City. He is working on the
mingham News and Age Herald in the National #
tising Department.

Ly.
Vw

oa

Edward Waring Wilson, ’98, has resignet
position as Vice-President of the Liberty Na
Bank of New York. He has returned to Philade
and is practicing law, with offices in the Land
suilding. |

 

7 rs

7 He E

*A ae MON 8

eas. OA. 2 eae ee

 

‘| The First Calyx Re-Viewed

 

ASHINGTON AND LEE’S first “Calyx”

-|was published in 1895—thirty-five years ago—
\/ jand has appeared annually since that time.
This first edition is on file in the Alumni Office and
‘, an interesting book from many standpoints. As we
turn its pages we find tiany names of college leaders
who are now leaders of the Nation.

The first photograph in the book is of William
Reynolds Vance, Editor-in- Chief, with his editorial
staff of sixteen men grouped about him. A catnpus
photogr aph shows Newcomb Hall with no pillars guard-
ing its entrance; a low building at the far end of the
group which has long since disappeared, and an inset
of the small frame gymnasium which was burned mariy

  

years ago.

Of the Faculty, composed of the President, Gen.
G. W. C. Lee, and twelve professors, only two are still
on our campus: Dr. Henry D. Campbell and Dr.
James Lewis Howe. ‘Two others are living elsewhere,
Professor Moreland and Doctor Fay.

The ruins of Liberty Hall, “burned in 1802,” show
that much more of the building has disintegrated, and
almost all of the fine trees surrounding it have been cut
down.

There were 212 students enrolled; about half of
these from Virginia, a fourth each from West Vir-
ginia and Kentucky, ten each from Maryland and
Missouri, the remainder scattered over the Southern
states, with only six men from north of Mason and
Dixon’s line. ‘Twelve Greek letter fraternities have
representation in this Calyx, with Theta Nu Epsilon
as the only “ribbon society.” A large and flourishing
Glee Club, with John W. Davis as its president, and
an equally large and flourishing Cotillion Club, William
A. Bell, President.

A husky football team, captained by John Ingles,
—long haired and determined,—with no head-gear in
evidence except a few inadequate looking rubber nose
protectors; and a baseball team, with J. F. Foster for
captain, with two little McBryde boys (now physician
and bank examiner respectively) as mascots. A pict-
ure of the winning Boat Crew.

There are many sentimental ballads dedicated to
the fair maids of Lexington, who seem to have had
very little competition at that time.

“O girl, sweet girl, we love thee true,

Our colors were chosen in honor of you,

lor thy soul we have white and for thine eyes
the blue

Yes, girl, dear girl, we love thee true.”

Also a poem called “Eytmology” involving a dis-
discussion of the origin of the name Calyx,—whether

from “calico,’—then a designation of the “fair sex” or
“calic,”—a cup.

Under the heading Statistics, we have a list of
winners in a voting contest for outstanding campus
honors.

“The contest for ‘biggest calico’ man was long
and stubborn. Billy Martin (William McChesney
Martin, trustee) was well into the game, but Sperow
had further to walk in going home with his best girl,
was seen by more people, and won by a close vote.
‘She’ is gone, however, and Sperow has taken to boat-
ing and letter-writing.”

“A majority have decided that the ‘Biggest Dude’
is G. Cuthbert Powell of Washington, D. C. This is
due to ‘Cud’s’ long hair as nothing else can explain the
vote. This vote was taken before the arrival of C. R.
Barbe, of Louisiana; but even now Powell looks with
undisguised envy upon Barbe’s silk hat and cloth over-
coat.”

“A large majority, both of students and calics,
think W. A. Bell, of Louisiana, the best dancer in col-
lege. It is fitting that the Final Ball President should
be.”

“A. B. LaFar was voted ‘Smartest Man.’ No
one will doubt the justice of this when it is known that
‘Soffy’ took part in a ‘play’ and still passed his exams.
Nevertheless, it was well for LaFar that these ballots
were in before a certain Tennessee maiden arrived in
Lexington.”

“W. R. Vance got most votes as ‘Most Literary
Man,’ by fraud and undue influence. Talking very
glibly of Homer and Tasso, of Sophocles and Shake-
spear, (of whom we suspect he knows nothing) before
the class in Junior English, he pulled the solid vote of
that class, and won by an easy vote.”

“Inasmuch as Jim Bullitt, when calicoing, as he
does every evening, has only to cross the street so that
no one knows of it, and has recently disgraced the in-
stitution by making 99 on Senior Moral Philosophy,
he is generally thought to be the ‘Most Studious Man’
in college. He is also considered the ‘Best Athlete’
and is by the unanimous consent of al] students and
‘calics’ alike, voted the ‘Most Talkative Man’ in Wash-
ington and Lee.”

“There are lean men in plenty in college, so a
choice of the ‘Leanest Man’ from among the numerous
candidates was an exceedingly difficult matter. The
most prominent candidates were ‘Shorty’ Helm, Powell,
John IL. Young, L. W. (Liv) Smith and John W.
Davis. All five of these gentlemen being very popular
and each having a very large following of friends who
insistently pressed their candidate’s claims to the honor,

[7]

Le Hs AOL Al iis
it seemed for a long time as if no majority could be se-
cured for any one of them. The calics refused to have
any voice in the matter, and the deadlock seemed hope-
less. Finally, however, it was demonstrated that Mr.
Davis had gained seven pounds within the last two
years, and his supporters, deserting him in disgust,
flocked to Mr. Smith, who thus secured a triumphant
election.”

“The neatest man is D. Weaver of Tennessee,
though he has a close competitor in Mr. Geo. Johnson
of Oregon. Some disappointed candidates have been
heard to say they guess they would be as neat as D.
if they could get a girl to go walking with them every
afternoon, as he does.”

“The average man at Washington and Lee is
twenty years and one month old, five feet and ten
inches tall, and weighs one hundred and forty-seven
pounds.”

At the end of the volume is a lengthy poem en-
titled: “The Battle of the Pig Skin, dedicated to our
Friends the Cadets in Loving Remembrance of No-
vember 10, 1894.” We quote the first few lines:

Thou fairest nymph, than all the graceful nine

More beauteous far, who from Pierian groves

Has come to haunt the shady campus walks,

And from the grand stand’s topmost bench dost cheer
Athenian youths to deeds of ever greater fame;

Sweet Calico, aid me, I pray, to sing

The dread and bloody wars that erst did wage

The men of Athens ’gainst those hapless wights

That dwell in Vemeiratis’ dismal towers.

and so for many pages.

 

There are many changes to be noted in this lapse
of thirty-five years. The average in age, height and
weight per student has greatly decreased; sentiment
likewise is at a low ebb in “these latter days, ‘certainly
the Lexington “calic’” “is not what she ‘uster’ be.”
However, we cannot say that the poetry is any worse;
could it be possible?

 

ry
Vv

“HOT” EBERT LEAVES CORNER

Hugh Ebert, ’29, familiarly known as “Hot,” has
resigned his position as manager of the “Corner,” and
has returned to his old home in Roanoke where he
will be connected with Mundy’s Cigar Store, which is
the sporting center of that city.

In his last year at Washington and Lee “Hot” was
manager of the Co-Op, and since that time has been
manager and part owner with we Dick Smith in
the “Corner.”

Ebert was a member of Sigma Nu, P.A.N., 13
Club, and Monogram Club and on the Executive Com-
mittee of the Student Body. He was on the basket-
ball team, playing a forward position in ’27 and ’28.

[8]

M tA GAS Boe

  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
      

HOMECOMING DRAWS MANY

Notwithstanding the counter attraction of th
auguration on October 25th, many alumni were pr
for the Annual Homecoming Day on November 1

The festivities started with a football game o
day afternoon between the Little Generals vs. ‘
Freshmen, resulting in a score of 25 to 0, for the |
team.

At noon on Saturday luncheon was served i
Alumni Building for alumni, faculty and friends,”
Young was assisted by Mrs. Gaines and other ladi
the faculty. The building was crowded during this pi
and many alumni did not have opportunity to reg

The football game with V. P. I. in the after
was well attended. The score was 0 to 0. Musie
furnished by the University band. A dance in the;
nasium that evening completed the day. The follo )
alumni registered :

Wm. W. Ackerly, 12; Ben P. Ainswortil
Wm. R. Allen, 92; James C. Ambler, ’18. .

D. M. Barclay, 99; L. G. Benford, ’24;
Bibb, ’24; R. E. Brown; Paul W. Buhrman, ’16;1]
man W. Burgess, ’10.

R. M. Cabell, ’20; Jas. R. Caskie, ’09; Edw.
Caffey, 09; H. D. Campbell, ’82; John L. Camp
09; M. D. Campbell, ’05; R. W. Cole, *19; :
Chenery, ’09; J. D. Christian, 711. |

L. W. Davis, ’23; L. J. Desha, 06; R. W. Di
10; J. L. Dickinson, ’28; Joe W. Dingene ‘21.

N. C. Evans, 16.

Robert Glass, 08; Chas. Glasgow, ’09; Irwi
Graham, ’10; S. M. Graham, ’19; John A. Graham,
H. B. Gregory. |

Harry A. Hall, 19; EF. B. Haley, ’29; J. D. Ho
Jr., 05; S. N. Hoshour, 709; C. E. Hunter, 713.

Geo. J. Irwin, ’20.

Sorsby Jemison, ’09.

H. J. Kiser, 716.

R. N. Latture, 715; A. G. Lively, 712.

E. S. Mattingly; E. C. Miller, ’04; J. P.
27; Stuart Moore, ’21; W. H. Moreland, 06;
Morrison, Jr., 725; R. Bruce Morrison, 717. i

J. M. McClung; C. R. McCoy; C. B. McNulty,

D. B. Owen, 712. 3

T. K. Parsons, ’21; E. K. Paxton, 09; M. W.E
ton, Jr., ’20; Paul D. Pickens, 717; E. W. Poindex
04; Robert D. Powers, Jr., ’29. ;

Shirley Riley, ’16; E. P. Rose, ’21;-Graham }
inson, ’70; Euc Reeves, ’27; E. B. Roeser, 06. *

Nelson Sale, ’85; Frank P. Shull; J. S. Shere
"12; K. L. Shirk, ’15; Joe L. Silverstein; L. W. Sm
"96; J. L. Stuart, Jr., ’28; Roscoe Stephenson, ~
William B. Sullivan, ’16. |

Dorr Tucker, ’28. q

H. Waddell, 93; Wilfred B. Webb, ’22; Clay
E.. Williams, ’12; John Higgins Williams, ’28.

   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

 

H E A. eo er ON

I

ayes A Ze TaN. 2

 

 

|
|

  

 

i See ee eS ee ee ee ee Se ee ee, ee as

 

 

 

MARLEN £. PEw

Hi’ FIRST Southern Editorial Institute, a
convocation of leading newspaper editors and

| | |publishers of the South will be held at Wash-

Seton and Lee January 16 and 17.

Features of the Editorial Institute will be the mid-
winter meeting of the Virginia Press Association, ad-

dresses by nationally known newspaper men, banquets,

and a-full program of athletic and social functions.
_ Speakers at the two-day conference will be:.Fred
_ F. Shedd, editor of the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin
and president of the American Society of Newspaper
Editors; \arlen Pew, editor of Editor and Publisher ;
Karl Bickel, president of the United Press Associations ;
_ Frank Reck, managing editor of the American Boy;
John E. Allen, editor of the Linotype News; Major I.
D. Carson, public relations executive of N. W. Ayer
and Son, Philadelphia; M. E. Seleeman, secretary in
charge of advertising for the American Bankers As-
sociation; Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee University; Mark Foote, Wash-
ington correspondent for the Booth Newspaper Syndi-
_ fate; C. H. Edwards, president. of the Virginia Press
Association.

Louis I. Jaffe, editor of the Norfolk Virginian-
Pilot and former Pulitzer prize winner, tentatively has
r Agreed to speak.

An unusual feature of the conference will be the
*tmal initiation of Karl Bickel, Mark Foote, and J.

indsay Nunn, the last named head of the Nunn
hain of new spapers in Texas, Arizona, and Oklahoma,

 

>
|

i
?

  

 

i a ~eE lS
FRED F. SHEOD

[9]

Editors Gather at W. & L. in January |

 

 

 

 

 

JARL GICKEL

into the Washington and Lee chapter of Sigma Delta
Chi, national professional journalistic fraternity.

A banquet has been scheduled for each night of
the conference. One will be a “journalism banquet,”
at which leaders in the newspaper world will address
delegates. The other, the gridiron banquet, will be
dedicated to the unvarnished truth, no matter how much
it hurts.

A series of intercollegiate boxing and wrestling
matches between Washington and Lee University and
North Carolina State College has been arranged for
the delegates on Saturday night. In addition to this a
series of receptions and teas have been arranged for
women attending the institute. President and Mrs.
Gaines will give a reception for all visitors Friday
afternoon at the President’s home.

Between 200 and 300 editors and publishers re-
presenting many of the most important publications of
the South, are expected to attend. Sessions will be
held Friday morning and afternoon and Saturday
morning and afternoon.

The Virginia State group, the Virginia Press As-
sociation will meet for round-table discussions Friday
morning and afternoon and Saturday morning. A full
representation of the State association is expected to
attend.

A number of educational exhibits offered by firm
dealing in newspaper equipment and supplies will be
display in the rooms of the Department of Journ?’

5

LL. Hed

General R. E. Lee

 

me Sq) HAVE read that after Robert E. Lee became
_|superintendent of West Point, his wonderful
“S= _|work with the corps of cadets so impressed
Colonel Chesney of the United States Army, that he
expressed, as his deep conviction, that Colonel Lee was
a model leader of young men and the courtliest and
most gracious gentleman he had ever met. This eulogy
from a distinguished officer seemed a prophecy of the
future career of the president of Washington College,
who thoroughly understood boys and was a father to
them in practical education.

It is only necessary to refer to the pages of Pro-
fessor Franklin L. Riley’s volume, “General Robert
EK. Lee, After Appomattox” for the confirmation of this
statement. Professor Riley’s book contains the ma-
tured experiences of many alumni of General Lee’s
day, and are just tributes to their beloved educator.
Numbered among those students at Washington Col-
lege, I recall many Confederate veterans who were
drawn to the small mountain school by affection for,
and confidence in, the great commander whom they
had followed through hard fought battles, and whom
they well knew sympathized with their earnest desire
to receive advantages to fit them for the upbuilding
of a ruined country.

There were boys in those days who walked many
miles to reach Lexington in order to matriculate and
who practised strictest economy all through their course
of study in college to “drink deep of the Pierian
spring.” Those students were unwilling to enter the
state universities, then under Federal control, with no
vital interest in education of the poverty stricken peo-
ple. Naturally, the men and boys who entered Wash-
ington College, with a real spirit of loyal devotion to
the southland, met the approval of the self-denying
president and professors, who took the deepest interest
in their aspirations. The personal eye of the president
was upon every member of the student body.

America is indeed a land of hallowed memories.
The names of heroic men and refined women are
sacredly enshrined in the archives of our country, mak-
ing of America a “holy land,” out of which towers a
peak we may call “Hermon,” rising above earthly con-
ditions with fadeless purity. On that height the whole
world now sees Robert E. Lee. His physical body
seemed chiselled out of the finest marble; kis mind was
more attractive than the ideal of Minerva springing
from the brain of Jupiter; and his spirit reflected glori-
fied humanity. All eyes in the country have turned to
this uplifted figure, whether descendant of the cavalier,
or French Huguenot, or the stalwart Dutch.

  

 

 

 

[ 10 ] 7

A LL Une ees

 
 
  
   
 
  
        
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  

M A G A Zo

The Educator of Boys
By Bishop Jas. R. Winche

Lee is America’s gift to fame, the knightly
man, the South’s idol, the world’s hero. Upe
peak of his pure manhood has fallen no stain;
the glistening robe of his soul no dark spot; uf
royal heritage of his life no envious breath. is
lime character has given inspiration to poet, ph
pher and historian, because he is the embodime
moral grandeur, Christian ethics and unselfish dey
to duty. Public and private libraries are teeming
countless pages calculated to educate future ¢
tions of all countries to be satisfied with nothing
than the highest ideals in citizenship. The
graphies of Lee, viewed from many angles by yz
writers North and South, at home and abroad, con
into a wonderful contribution of eulogy to one ¢
noblest types of our Anglo-Saxon race. ;

Sir Frederick Maurice sees in him “the so
without a mark of cowardice ;’’ Gamaliel Bradfe
scribes him as “the American, a most worthy r¢
sentative of the land of the free;’ Thomas N
Page depicts him as “the Southerner, having al
characteristics of honor;’ James C. Young sends
forth as “the knight of the Confederacy, chivalrot
all conditions of life;” Fitzhugh Lee makes him”
commander of men, with a gentle influence that n
wavered ;” Dr. J. William Jones points to him
most exemplary Christian, facing duty at hom
church and nation; R. A. Brock, secretary of
Southern Historical Society, gathered articles from
facile pens of Mrs. Roger A. Pryor, Dr. Edmund |
nings Lee, Col. John J. Garnett and other well kr
writers, calling particular attention to the fact
Lee was soldier, citizen and Christian patriot.

  

As I have read these soul stirring expression:
books about my college president, and the very fa
of my education, it seemed that each volume excelled
preceding one. Then the addresses of great orat
to whom I have listened with rapt attention, ora
like John Daniel and Holcombe, or the eloqu
speeches of the present day, as given by Hon. Che
H. Brough, eulogies with thrilling incidents, like jev
in the casket of Idealism, I have thanked God anew
the privileges that came to me as a student under t
heaven-sent ‘“‘educator of boys.” 7

John Esten Cooke, whose eyes I closed, has le
pen-picture in his matchless volume ‘“‘Hammer and }
pier” on page 208, that adorns American history. —
is the statement of a Pennsylvanian, upon whose p
erty a portion of Lee’s army had encamped. “I m
say they acted like gentlemen, and their cause aside

H E

uid rather have 40,000 rebels quartered on my prem-
ices than 1,000 Union troops.” Lee had given his men

ers to so act—like General, like soldiers. And so
1 feel the students of Washington and Lee have done
a obedience to the precept and example of their great
president. And that President has transmitted to his
successors in office to the present day all the marks of
_, Christian gentleman.

   
  
 

I beg permission to give the impressions General
yee left upon my life, which become more vivid with
sing years. ‘These impressions came from precept
| and example. Well do I remember that he gave no
precept that was not based upon personal example. As
the abscissa and ordinate are the co-ordinates of conic
sections, without which no problems in that difficult
~ course can be solved, so we learn in life that character
js not understood apart from precept and example—
the co-ordinates of human conduct. To me one of the
most trying subjects in my college curriculum was
conic sections; and so today the character of men and
‘women, with the various cuts from experiences of life,
jis hard to know unless I study the specific duties per-
formed conscientiously in the sight of God and man.
A boy ought to have concrete cases before his develop-
ing faculties to get a just estimate of his fellow men.
Nowhere are these concrete cases more necessary than
in early life, when a boy emerging from high school
enters college or business. President and professor
largely mould the ideals of the student into realities.

In 1869 I matriculated at Washington College,
with a number of classmates, attracted there by the
great |.ee who had in four years gained the reputation
for a wonderful influence over young men. Inasmuch
as the immortal George Washington had endowed the
little mountain school at Lexington, Virginia, known as
“Liberty Hall,” with the gift of $50,000.00, which in
those days was a munificent sum, giving his own name
henceforth to the institution, it should have been enough
as a magnet, to draw students. Doubtless the name
Washington was an inducement that influenced Lee in
his acceptance of the presidency. There were only
four professors and a bare handful of students gath-
ered within the classic walls of the poverty stricken col-
lege, left desolate by the Civil War.

l.ee’s salary was $1,500 and house, about equal to
a village chauffeur in these times. It is a well known
fact that he declined handsome offers elsewhere, as
head of a life insurance company for his name and a
home of ease in England, preferring to suffer with the
boys of the South in helping them to become fitted for
the renovation of the country he had sacrificed all he
had to serve. It is opportune to insert here the words
of Massachusett’s gifted son, Gamaliel Bradford: “Lee
became the head of a small college in the Virginia
Mountains, and quietly did his duty there, as he had
done it at Gettysburg. Far bigger offers were made

And was ad oN: f

Mick 2G .A.:2 sh oe

to him. If he would have sold his name, he might
have had thousancs of dollars for it. Instead, he pre-
ferred to be simp'y and humbly useful to Virginia, to
the South, to the whole United States. And the part
he played during these last few years was by no means
so petty as it might seem. By playing it in a great
spirit he gave it at once tragic dignity and constructive
significance. The boys whom he taught were the
nucleus of the new South, and it was his business to
give them new inspiration, new traditions, new habits
of thought. They were to be American. There was
to be no bitterness toward the old and conquering ene-
mies, there was to be no nursing of ancient grudge and
harsh vindictiveness.”

To the question above I can give my assent, as a
student under his watchful eye. My first impression
was that of Lee’s self-sacrifice for the duty that God
put into his consecrated soul. My second impression,
from my personal experience, was when entering his
office, introduced by one of my high school classmates,
Lawrence Rust, vf Virginia. Before matriculating a
student had to meet the president in those days. Gen-
eral Lee took my and most kindly, received a letter I
had brought him from my uncle, an Episcopal ciergy-
man, at whose hume he had been entertained. In a
most fatherly manner he questioned me as to my course
of study and in a short time discovered my fitness for
particular classes, and commended me to the professors
of Latin, Greek, I¢nglish and mathematics. He kindly
counselled me as to a boarding house. (In those days
students were accommodated in homes of the citizens,
who needed the financial help, at the same time giving
a glimpse of fami'y life to the boys, thus removing the
cold edge of homesickness.) ‘Therefore I was indelibly
impressed with his kindness.

Leaving his s:cred presence that day, I felt a won-
derful sympathy that never can depart from my heart.
To come away from such an august presence, with
gentle sympathy, that inspired confidence, made my col-
lege career continued pleasure. I felt that he regarded
me as a young gentleman and that I must live up to the
standard he had st before my life. Shortly after my
matriculation I received an invitation to be at his home
for an evening entertainment, and at that time I met
his family and a number of the best citizens of Lexing-
ton. Each guest was cordially welcomed, including
“the green freshnian,”’ who immediately felt at home
with due appreciation for the great honor. The gentle
bearing of the host was in keeping with the same gentle
sympathy I realized in his office. The hospitality of
the ideal home, which was void of display, continued
during my college course. Mrs. Lee, the invalid wife,
sat as a queen, where she was idolized by the entire
community, as well as by her knightly husband and de-
voted family.

Gentleness marked the president in his walks about

[ i]

+ H&B

the campus and in the streets of the town. He seemed
to recognize every act of respect paid him by the stu-
dents and citizens. I cannot recall a harsh word Gen-
eral Lee ever uttered to any one, nor did I ever hear
of such utterances from his lips. “Thy gentleness hath
made me great” said the psalmist; and we can apply
the words to our wonderful president.

My third impression of General Lee was that of
conscientiousness. Attendance upon chapel services

was optional with professors and students, consequently:

many neglected this religious duty. I cannot remember
a day when he was absent from his accustomed seat in
the auditorium, to the right of the speaker’s stand.
When a professor once suggested to General Lee that
some measure should be taken to induce the students to
attend the services, and asked his advice, he replied,
“the best way to get them is to be there ourselves.” It
was his example that influenced me. ‘The same prin-
ciple applied to church services on Sunday. ‘The stu-
dents were expected to attend the church of their
choice, but were put on their honor as to the observance.
I cannot recollect a Sunday when General Lee’s seat in
the Episcopal church was vacant. He was a faithful
vestryman of the church, one of the last acts of his
life being to attend a meeting of the vestry with ex-
pressed interest in the rector’s salary. I was accus-
tomed month after month to go to holy communion in
Grace Church, where he was habitually present. "T'was
no wonder that one of my first missions in behaif of
the Church was a trip East to collect money for the
Memorial Church at Lexington, Va., which stands as a
beautiful monument to this man of God whose religious
life impressed all who knew him, a life as free from
inconsistencies as any one I have ever known.
General Lee took a very deep interest in the Young
Men’s Christian Association, and expressed the hope
that no student would leave college without being a
Christian. It was natural that I should have taken
interest in this association on that account, becoming
its president during my last year in college. ‘That was
before the organization became national and took in all
the branches in the country. General Lee loved the
Bible and the well marked copy found on his table in
his room showed how he had read its pages. Passages
bearing upon “personal salvation” were particularly
marked, as reported by the student who sat up at his
home after his death. He was the president of the
Rockbridge Bible Society and spoke of “the inesti-
mable knowledge of the priceless truths of the Bible.”
The book of common prayer of the Episcopal church
stood next to his Bible. Dr. J. William Jones, the
faithful Baptist minister, chaplain under General Lee
and personal friend, in his biography, mentioned the
fact of General Lee giving away many copies of the
prayer book to the soldiers in the Confederate army.
It was the consistent Christian life of General Lee tnat
impressed the entire student body and brought many to

[ 12 ]

A--— LA ae. A

- to General Lee.

room. Everyone so posted reported at once |

  
   
   
    
  
  
  
    
    
    
  
   
    
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
     
  
   
   
    
    
   

M.--A—G- A>

the deep responsibility of personal religion. _
such example the world is asking for today, in
and China, where Christianity is being rejected h
the avowed followers do not live the life of Ck :
The fourth impression left upon me was the

eral Lee was'the embodiment of honor. It is
nized that he was*the founder of the “honor 5
which has spread over the Southern institutions
where else in the world. As he walked about
lege grounds, the students saw in him the pers
tion of honor. If a student cheated on exam ;
his fellow students discovering it, the act expellee
I never knew any one. who fabricated a false: stat
The roughest fellow would —
have had his arm cut off than to have told G
Lee a lie. He would take zero but would not ¢
pass with honor. | a
The fifth impression that I retain of Gener:

was his sobriety. Lexington was a “wide open’
in those days... He never touched ‘ardent spirit
did he use- tobacco. His breath was as immz
the clothes he wore; yet he had.a way of reachi
boy who happened to drift into dissipation. ItG
he went through the: Mexican and Civil wars w
touching a drop of intoxicating spirits. I had aj
and fellow student who one day stepped out of
room and was conscious of staggering, as a‘ resi
“the cups” he had imbided. He saw General Le
ing, mounted on “Traveler ;” but “Billy’’ hoped tk
eye of the president had not noticed his’ cone
‘There was a custom in Washington College to pe
names.of all students whom. the president wished
regarding any matter. It might be business, or
from the boy’s home or about derelict duty in, the
office of the president. It was nearly a week 1
my friend’s name appeared on the bulletin board.
went to the office in fear, with a conscienes fam
General Lee greeted him by saying, “Mr. B, tik
casion recently to write to your mother and it g
pleasure to tell her how well you were doing it
classes.” Such a statement surprised ‘‘Billy,” wh
swered, ‘ d hope I may always live worthy of your
opinion.” Then the wise president said, “Did it
occur to you, Mr. B, that when you reach mic dl
and old age, you will need stimulants, and if yo
accustomed to them in your youth, it will take so
more to have the necessary effect?” Then “Bill
“General, I did ONE ; but I promise not to. C
again.” On the wall in “Billy’s” office, in later yes
saw the letter General Lee had written the mothe
controlled his business life. — an
Following is a sample of letters the president
mothers and fathers about their sons. E specia }
he write to mothers for he knew boys were induc
the performance of duty by appeals to their me
Continued on Page 27 4

7 13

Ata. M NI MUA ©Gr. A aig:

 

Henry Clemmer Pursues Golf as Vocation

Harry Clemmer belonged to the “Pink Tea Club”. Those of
you who went to Washington and Lee while Harry was here, from
1921 to 1926, probably remember that organization. Possibly you

 

remember it because of involuntary affiliation.

the lily.

and became a member of the Monogram Club.
to Square and Compass.

city.

 

Clemmer, a big, easy-going, blond boy, was described by a con-
temporary student as “just a hell of a good boy.” Let us not gild

Between the time he entered, in 1921, and the year he obtained
his LL.B. degree, 1926, Clemmer was elected to membership in the
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Phi Delta Phi, Sigma, Kappa
eta Phi, the “11” Ciub, the Cotillion Club, and White Friars.

As manager of baseball, he was granted a varsity monogram,
He also belonged

Always a golf enthusiast, Clemmer seems to have retained this
hobby, for he is now manager of the Stonewall Jackson Country Club, in Staunton, Virginia.
sefore he recently attained this position, he was manager of the Stonewall Jackson hotel in the same

While attending W. and L,., his home was in Middlebrook, Virginia.

 

 

__ ALUMNI DINNER AT NEW YORK

Nearly a hundred alumni and guests of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association of New York City
met at the Lafayette Hotel, at 9th and Broadway on

4 Thursday evening, November 20th, to attend the an-

nual dinner of that Association.

Honor guests of the occasion were President
Francis P. Gaines, Rector George W. St. Clair, and H.
K. Young, Alumni Secretary.

D. P. East, president of the association presided.

Hon. John W. Davis made a most interesting
speech introducing Dr. Francis P. Gaines. Other
speakers were Dr. R. W. Vance, of the Yale Law
‘School, Mr. J. C. Meem, president of the V. M. I. New
York Alumni Association, and H. K. Young, Alumni
Secretary of the University.

Officers elected were: Joe Lykes, President, Eli
M. Millen, Vice-President, and Edward Weeks Lee,
Secretary.

Alumni Attending New York Alumni Dinner:

John Drye, Jr.
James A. Castner
Raymond Smith
Wentworth Myers
Robert Bentley, Jr.
J. T. Lykes

Idgar Sydenstricker
Dr. George B. Lee
Arthur W. McCain

Robert A. Tutwiler, Jr.

John P. East
Jackson R. Collins

Dr. Charles L. McNitt
Dr. W. E. Dold
Nicholas Mandak
W. K. Burton

John M. Glenn

C. H. McCain
Maurice J. Reis
Hon. John W. Davis
Rayford W. Alley
Edwin C. Caffrey
W. L. Webster

W. R. Vance

Thornton W. Allen
Randolph E. Tyrrel
George P. Jackson

Robert B. Lee
Francis Sutherland
Wm. E. Johnston
Wilmer S. Foster
William B. Gregg
William R. Perkins
W. T. Thom, Tr.
Walter L. McCorkle
D. G. Eristoff

W. B. Sullivan
Junius B. Powell
E. S. Clarke, Jr.

A. J. Fedor

I. Shuman

Dion McGlashon
Benj. A. Judd
Hugh Hawthorne
G. W. Allison

C. S. Osbourn

EK. W. Poindexter
Eli M. Millen
Nelson W. Burris
Hayward L. Day
Martin Spector

D. S. MacCorkle
E. A. Quarles
Matthew G. Henderson
Charles Gilkeson
Julian S. Gravely

[ 13 ]

. D. McMillan
M. Craig
W. Lee

. R. Stone

T. Chenery
Francis Cole

M. G. Welch
Chas. Kupfer

J. L. Powell
Dave Birch

Reed Johnston

J. A. Wotton
G. R. Shaw

A. C. Lopez

KE. J. Spady

J. B. Copper

N. V. Avrack

L. A. Dillon

C. Lane Howard
Claud Glenn

J. A. Lee
Robert Kane

H. D. St. John
Cliff Hartley

kK. B. Vinson

F. J. Urmey
Walter McDonald
L. T. Brown

J. H. Edmondson
J. J. Hudak

H. F. Dobbs

D. R. Snively

OU RH A

 

H E

Calendar Shows Busy

A AOU. La ee ER

MiuUA LG Ay 2s

#
“=
‘4

 

Jan. 8—Dr. Henry Louis Smith, after serving Feb. 8—North Carolina was defeated tonight

almost eighteen years as president of 39-24 for the seventh win.

Washington and Lee, left for his Car- Edward V. Valentine presented the

olina home in Greensboro, N. C. Chapel Museum with a valuable paint-
Journalism laboratory was formally in- ing of General Lee. 3
stalled today carrying out General Lee's W. & L. came in third in the Millrose Feb. 28
idea of a practical working department meet at Madison Square Garden. q
to further journalism. Washington and Lee debators faced Mar.
Varsity cagers won a 51-16 victory Ohio Wesleyan. W. & L. was repre-

over St. Johns here tonight. sented by S. R. Nichols, T. W. Daven-

Jan. 14—Jean Goldkette and his Casa Loma or- port, and W. K. Jennings.
chestra were signed today to play for Sewanee met defeat at the hands of the
Fancy Dress Ball. Generals 35-30.

Generals down Richmond 39-35 in a The boxing team came out on the top

hard fought game. side of a 4-3 score over V. P. I. Mar, ©
W. & L. wrestlers defeated the Army Feb. 11—Virginia held W. & L. to a 34-32 win.

22-10. Most of the fraternities have now com-

Jan. 15—The basketball team was again suc- pleted the initiation of pledges.
cessful when they turned back Bridge- Feb. 12—--Plans are now complete for the annual Mar. $
water to the tune of 64-30. prep basketball tourney March 6-8. :

Jan. 20—Inevitable examinations began today. Feb. 14—The annual Faculty-Student Meeting

Jan. 30—Examinations are over. of the State Y. M. C. A. opened here
Junior Prom is being led tonight by today. 7
Wilbur Owen and Miss Dorothy Mont- The ninth conference victory was scor- Mar. &
gomery, of Charlotte, N. C. ed by the Generals today when they de- |

Jan. 31—Fancy Dress, ‘nuff said. Willis Van teated Maryland 30-21.

Gilbert and Miss Bebe Saunders, of Feb. 15—The wrestling team moved up to first
Athens, Ga., are leading the figure. place in the conference by downing V.
It was estimated that 2,000 persons at- eh 23-11. This is their third con-
tended the 25th annual Ball. ‘The peFeCS Sil PES eee

theme of the dance was a Spanish V. P. I. lost to the Generals 35-20. Red
Fiesta. Hanna scored 13 points.

Feb. 2—Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of the The boxing team lost to Georgetown
Commerce School, was chosen acting and Catholic University, 4-3 and 5-2
president. respectively. Mar.

Feb. 3—General basketeers win over Maryland Feb. 19—Duke hands the Generals their first de-

29-25. feat by a 29-26 score.

Feb. 4—Spring football practice called by Varsity swimmers lose to N. Y. U. by |
Coach Eugene Oberst. close margin of 31-28. Mar. 15

Feb. 7—William and Mary went down in de- Keb. 20—Swimmers lose to Lafayette 34 1-2 to .

17 1-2. Mar. 17

feat to the powerful W. and L. ma-
chine, 52-33. This

sixth consecutive win.

is the Generals’

Only forty men were caught by the “Au-
tomatic” rule. This is less than half
the number of “busts” of last year at
mid-term. Ejighty-nine are on_ the
Dean's list and forty-five are on the

Honor Roll,

Feb

Feb.

[ 14 ]

 

. 22—On Washington’s birthday the trustees

decided on Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines as the successor to Dr. Smith as
President and named Dr. Smith Presi-
dent-Emeritus.

Basketball season ended today with a
53-32 win over V. P. I.

The Boxing team lost to Duke 4-3,

  

    
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
 
  

= H

. seating Duke

ams, Hanna,

sted soprano,

papel.

ypes at At-
1eWws

y when |!

ics” had been

team an Op-

day on Wil-
» are back.
re today given

game in the
-of Tennessee.
the new presi-
his wife paid

enteen games

wer finals at the
rstling meet at

Mathis, Hall,

tball tourney,
ay when Mas-
Marshall for the

Southern Con-
Honship in the

the “13” and
tetided to have
Nal dances in-
dance set.
ball tonight in
Dining Hall.

the beginning

> tWelve: D. C,
HE. S. Graves,
Wlins, IIl.,
| Y-, Law; J.
merce; J. Pp,
R. E, Clapp,
H, Kaplan,

   

——

E Ada Aw M: Nyt

Ky., Academic; C. I. Lewis, W. Vai,
Acadmeic; A. M. Harvey, Ark., Aca-
demic;H. G. Jancke, New Orleans,
Academic; and W. H. Marshall, Fla.,
Academic. .

Mar. 19—Prof. R. B. Ellard, now head of the
Journalism Department of the school,
has decided to take a position as head
of the Editorial department at his Alma
Mater, Missouri.

Mar. 22—Candidates for crew were called today
by Captain Shipman of Albert Sidney
crew, and Captain Swink, of the Harry
Lee crew.

Mar. 25—Phi Delta Thetas defeated the Phi
Kappa Psis for the Intramural Cham-
pionship in Basketball.

Mar. 26—Plans for the 18lst Commencement of
Washington and Lee were completed

today. Dr. Ashby M. Jones, of St.
Louis, will deliver the Baccalaureate
Sermon.

Mar. 28-—Drexel downed the Generals in the first
baseball game of the season 3-2.

Mar. 31—The new tennis courts on the hill to the
right of the athletic field were opened.
The track team scores 80-46 victory
over Duke. Sandifer, sprinter, broad
jumper, scored 18 points.

1—Duke defeats Generals 15-2.

2—At the University today, Dr. Robert H.
Tucker, acting president of the univer-
sity, spoke on the future of Washington
and Lee. Forest Fletcher, Dean Camp-
bell and Professor Gilliam also spoke.

W. & L. lost to N. C. State 8-4.

3—W. & L. began a series of wins today
when they defeated Lafayette 6-2.

5—A ‘13’ Club banquet at the Dutch Inn
was followed by a formal dance at the
Gymnasium. B. J. Lambert led the
dance with Miss Shirley Newbold of
Hollins. Russ Bolin and his Original
Cotton Pickers furnished the music for
the occasion.

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Page Bledsoe won the election to presi-
dent of the Athletic Council:

Apr. 14-—-W. & L,. track team wins over N. C.

State 73-52,
[ 15 ]

mites Gs: A Za oN. sé

shigton and Lee University

Apr. 14—Generals take N. C. University for a
10-2 and 7-6 count in a double header.

Apr. 16—The Easter number of the Southern
Collegian is mailed today.

Virginia won the baseball game today
6-2.

Apr. 21—Richmond won from the Generals today
4-0.

Apr. 25-—Maryland piled up a 9-1 score on the
Generals.

Apr. 26-—Journalism students who have been on
the annual field trip, returned today
from Philadelphia.

The Navy took the Generals count 7-4.

Apr. 28—The annual Frosh-Sophomore meet was
neld today, and the Sophs won.

The track team lost to N. C. University
78-47.

The Troubadour’s first performance of
“College Daze,’ was well received.

May. 1—N. C. State lost to the Washington and
Lee team today 7-6.
May 2—The annual ‘Mock Trial’ was held in

the Lyric theatre here tonight.
William and Mary lost to the Generals
3-4.
May 7—Jan Garber to play for Finals.
9—Maryland won a 3-4 victory over the
Generals.

May

Today and tomorrow are the days set
for the annual Southern Interscholastic
Press Association.

May 10—-The second formal dance was well re-
ceived in the gymnasium tonight. ‘The
Carolina Buccaneers furnished _ the
music.

Washington and Lee’s track team got
second place in the state track meet.

May 13—V. P. I. lost the game to the W. & L.
team 2-3.

May 14—For the first time in the history of the
school there will be no captains of sports,
according to a report of the Athletic
Council.

May 30—F inal dances get under way with the
Inter-fraternity prom leading. — Jian
Garber, who has played Finals for the

Continued on page 29

75) oe AL “Ui Oa aN

O.D.K. Taps Nineteen; Carlton Spea

 

s|AKING advantage of opportunity is a great
step toward success,” Newcomb Carlton told
the Washington and Lee student body in the
annual Omicron Delta Kappa “tapping” ceremony in
Doremus Gymnasium December 12th. Mr. Carlton,
who is president of the Western Union Telegraph
Company, was also tapped.

“The nearest thing to success I know is some piece
of work you feel you’ve done reasonably well,” Mr.
Carlton went on. ‘When a boy asks me the secret of
success, | recommend hard work. But hard work and
virtue alone won't do it. ‘There must be some element
of chance, some little quantity more or less fortuitous,
which, when applied to simpler virtues suddenly dis-
closes a man.

It’s easier to be educated than to
stay educated, and much depends on
this fortuitous circumstance, this ele-
ment of chance.” Mr. Carlton then
attributed his success to a chance as-
signment to see what was wrong with
a hotel elevator. This small assign-
ment led to something bigger and he
took advantage of the opportunity.

Mr. Carlton advised the students
to pay little attention to older men.
‘They are stuffed shirts when they get
past sixty,” he said. “Your only hope
of salvation is to be different from us,”
ne cautioned, “then you'll be better.”

‘The older generation left you an
awful mess,” was his warning. “The
world has been drunk for the last seven or eight years.
It is up to you to sober things up.”

Mr. Carlton then stated that he seriously believed
there will be an improvement when women take charge
of things. He is of the opinion that women are rapid-
ly taking charge already.

 

 

 

 

‘Be tolerant of the man whose balance sheet shows
too much liability,” Mr. Carlton pleaded. He conclud-
ed with the statement, “the man who takes more out
of life than he puts in soon becomes a moral and social
bankrupt.”

At the conclusion of the speech the entire student
body rose and gave Mr. Carlton one of the greatest ova-
tions ever given a visiting speaker here.

Dr. F. P. Gaines, president of the University, in-
troduced H. Graham Morison, president of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, who
then explained the purpose of the society and how the
men were chosen.

[ 16 ]

 

NeEwcoms CARLTON

M A.G A 24 Ia

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

After the “tapping” Dr. Gaines made a few
marks in which he said, “If there are some men he
this morning, who feel that they have deserved to ma
Circle and have not, I hope they will feel only digs,
pointment and not bitterness.” :

Nineteen men, an even two percent of the stude
body, were tapped for the Omicron Delta Kappa, n;
ional leadership fraternity. This is the largest nur
ber that has ever been tapped in a single year. 4

The men are: Harris Cox, C. W. Day, Jr., J. ]
Devine, Jr., J. G. Faulkner, Jr., EK. S. Graves, ja
Ladd, E, P. Martin, Jr., R. L. Malone, W. W. Matte
C. H. McMillan, M. G. Perrow, Jr., K. R. Routin,?
S. Sandifer, G. A. Speer, W. C. Sugg, W. H. Tath
C. E. Tilson, W. O. Thomas, O. J. Wilkinson.

 

 

STUDENT HOLDS 13 CLUB

Bridge playing among  stude
of Washington and Lee has recet
a boon since Hartley Kittle, mem
of the freshman class, and Delta
Delta, held a perfect hand of thirte
clubs in a game with three fratern
men recently. .

Tom Hancock, of Morocco,
a sophomore in the university, 4
dealing. Kittle worked the bid up
five clubs and redoubled after opp
ents had signified their doubt of
ability to make the contract. |

“All I am or ever hope to B
owe to the dealer,” Kittle laughed
he threw down his hand and hurried to a 1:30 class

<>
iw

Nelson W. Burris, ’26, who has been in chargé
recreational work of the American BembergCorpo at
and the American Glanzstoff Corporation, rayon m
at Elizabeth, Tenn., has accepted a position as diret
of the Strykers Lane Community Center in New
City. He has charge of a community center fo
fourteen years ago and backed by a group of weall
men and women interested in those who live on
middle side of Manhattan. ‘The work is similar”
that of a highly organized personnel department wi
such branches as community industrial work, first ¢
kindergarten for children of the neighborhood, sum
camp for boys, a gymnasium and approximately
social clubs with club room and equipment. |

J. W. Anderson, ’85, has been engaged in engifl
ing work in Latin America for twenty-five years.
is now located in Knoxville, Tenn. '

4
,

- Var

,T ee

 

aoa a IN od

ee AS A eee. AN

 

Seventeen Alumni Teaching at W. & L.

4

a\f THE fifty-six members of the faculty this
)|year, seventeen are graduates of Washington
“jand Lee. Their dates of appointment to the
staff range from 1888 to the present term.

  

A glance at their collegiate careers in the days
gone by shows that these men were represented in every
phase of campus life. Members of the football eleven,
publication leaders, and class presidents are all repre-
sented on the faculty this year. Many of the profes-
sors still retain their college hobbies, such as horseback
riding, travelling, and now many serve as faculty ad-
visors for activities in which they were former leaders.

During the World War the majority of the pro-
fessors saw active service overseas, and those that re-
mained at home were outstanding in their fields, per-
fecting measures to aid the United States. One mem-
ber of the faculty served with the Washington and Lee
Ambulance Unit in France, under the French army.

Graduating in 1882, Dr. Henry D. Campbell is
first on the list of service to his Alma Mater. Earl
Wallace Bibb who came to Washington and Lee as
assistant professor in September is the youngest mem-
ber of the faculty in term of service.

After graduating from college, and before they
joined the teaching roster, many were prominent in the
held of work in which they specialized during their
undergraduate days. Authors, engineers, and_busi-
ness men are among the professions listed.

The Washington and Lee graduates who are mem-
bers of the faculty are:

Henry Donald Campbelf, A.M., Ph.D., Sc.D.,
I1,.D., Dean of the University, and professor of Geol-
ogy. When H. D. Campbell received his A.B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1882 he was very much
interested in Geology, Chemistry, and Biology. His
interest in these sciences whetted his desire to obtain a
Master’s degree along these lines. His knowledge en-
abled him to obtain the position of Instructor of Chem-
istry and Geology in 1882. In 1884 he had obtained
his M.A. degree and was then made Assistant Pro-
fessor of Chemistry and Geology. When granted the
Howard Houston Fellowship in 1884 he continued his
studies, and soon won many honors. Among these
honors were, the Cincinnati Oration, Santini Medal
and the A. T. O. social fraternity.

in 1886 he left the University for the only period
of his entire career. For two years he carried on his
Studies in Berlin and Heidelberg. In 1888 he again
returned to W. & L. where he has ever since been ac-
tively connected.

In 1888 when Professor of Biology and Geology
he became Dean of the University.

Now, in 1930, he is still active and carries on the
functions of his office faithfully and efficiently. Very
fond of golfing for twenty-five years, the Dean has
now forsaken it for motoring. He is a staunch sup-
porter of Henry Ford, and believes his car is an object
well qualified to absorb what attention a busy Dean
can spare.

William Haywood Moreland, 1,L.B., and Dean of
the Washington and Lee Law School. In 1905 Dean
Moreland was matriculated in Washington and Lee.
He was a candidate for an LL.B. degree, and be&an
at once to work earnestly to reach this objective. It was
not long before his ability and earnestness were re-
warded, and in 1906 he was graduated with an LL.B.
degree. He had become a leader in his class, being
elected president of the Senior Law Class. He was a
member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity here and
of the Phi Delta Phi, legal fraternity.

After graduating from W. & L,., he returned to
his home in Norfolk, Va., where he began the practice
of law. In 1923 he was made Dean of the Law School,
and now graduates more or less capable lawyers from
Washington and Lee.

He is on the Faculty Executive Committee and
the Committee on Courses and Diplomas.

Robert Granville Campbell, A. B., A.M., Ph.D.,
Professor of Political Science. Between the years
1895 and 1899 R. G. Campbell, a student at Washing-
ton and Lee was a leading figure on the campus. When
he obtained his A. B. degree in 1899, he was the reci-
pient of many honors. He was a member of the Phi
Delta Theta, social fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa, besides
being captain of the football and baseball teams.

Obtaining a Fellowship at Johns Hopkins, he car-
ried on his studjes there and received the Ph.D. degree.
During the Wqfid War he was a first lieutenant in
the army and connected with the Education Corps
in France. He published his work, “Neutral Rights
and Obligations Anglo Boer War in South Africa.”

He is still a sport lover, and is constantly seen on
and about the athletic field. He follows the athletic
teams closely and is always well posted on their con-
dition. His rather individual method of imparting
the secrets of Politics to the class make him stand cut,
and give him a place of rank in the hearts of the stu-
dents.

Thomas James Farrar, A.B., A.M., PhD., Pro-
fessor of German. ‘The students who attended Wash-

[17 ]

aoe «Bh A:. 24 Ui, ee

ington and Lee in 1895-1899 had the pleasure of be-
ing acquainted with one of W. & L,.’s most popular
faculty members of today. T. J. Farrar was even then
a prominent figure in school life. While at Washing-
ton and Lee, he was editor of the Ring-tum Phi, man-
ager of Football, and president of the Y. M. C. A. He
was a member of the Delta Tau Delta, social fraternity.

In 1901 he received his M.A. degree and began
his teaching career. Dr. Farrar, from his youth, has
always been interested in any one in trouble of any
sort. While a student in prep school he intervened for
a younger boy who was in danger of being expelled,
and this practice of seeing that all students in trouble
receive fair treatment has grown up with him.

By his earnest interest in the welfare of the stu-
dents at W. & L. he has probably earned more close
friendships than any other person connected with it.
His kindly interest in boys attracts them to him.

During the World War, he was stationed at Camp
Lee, and acted as secretary of the War Work Council.
He is the author of “La Cigole Chez Les Fourmis.”
and “The Gerund in Old English.”

He has been Professor of German at Washington
and Lee since 1905 and is president of the Inter-fra-
ternity Council. He is Delta Tau Delta faculty ad-
visor and now is a member of Pi Delta Epsilon, hono-
rary journalistic fraternity. As chairman of the
Scholarship Committee and Committee of Curriculum
he has served in the true interest of bettering W. & L.

Lucius Junius Desha, although a man connected
with many activities, always finds time to administer
his duties, as professor of chemistry which he became
in 1920. Graduating from W. & L. in 1906 with an
A.B. degree, he continued his studies at Johns Hopkins,
where he received a Ph.D. degree in 1909. His campus
activities, which began with his two years’ term as
manager of the Ring-tum Phi, have followed him so
closely that he now, as a faculty member, is chairman
of the Social Functions Committee, a member of the
Dance Advisory Board, and vice-president of the W. &
L. chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. During the World
War he was a captain in the Intelligence Service in
France, and connected with the secret ink laboratory.
He is a member of the Phi Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity.

Clayton Epes Williams, was graduated with an
LL.B. degree in the class of 1912 of which he was
president. Immediately after graduating, he began
practicing law in Shenandoah County and soon became
Commissioner in Chancery. During the war he had
charge of investigating draft cases in this county. In
1919 he resigned his position of County Commonwealth
Attorney, to which he had been promoted, to answer
the call of his alma mater for a iaw professor.
ways interested in athletics, he has held the position of

[ 18 ]

Al- |

I

     
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
  

M A. G A Z I=

tennis coach since 1923 when it became a recogy
sport. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha, Oc
Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership, and Phi Delta®
legal fraternities.

William Miller Hinton, as one of the administr
tors of the freshman psychological tests, found in h
just one of the many phases of education in which
is interested. After getting his A.B. with the class
‘29, of which he was Secretary-Treasurer, he took ¢
an instructorship in Psychology and Education, whi
he held while securing his M.A. in ’30. This year.
is an Assistant Professor in the same subject, but
hobby, the study of Abnormal Psychology and ch
guidance, is destined to lead him to Ohio State ne
year, where he will enroll for his Ph.D., under two ,
the leading international Abnormal and Clinical Ps
chologists. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha §
cial Fraternity and the Kappa Phi Kappa, protessior

educational fraternity. |

Robert William Dickey, professor of Physics a
Electrical Engineering, probably holds the distineti
of having been the leader in more campus improy
ments than any other member on the faculty. Tot
gin with, he installed the automatic tramway for t
handling of coal, and followed that with an exte sic
of a central heating system to all buildings and res
dences on the campus. He served as contractor an
inspector of the concrete foundation for the che
building. His latest project has been the installatie
of an amplifying system in the gymnasium. He is
member of the Phi Kappa Psi, social; Omicron Del
Kappa, leadership; Phi Beta Kappa, scholarship; an
Gamma Alpha, scientific, fraternities. He holds A.E
A.M., B.S., and Ph.D. degrees. Crime fiction is }
weakness during his spare moments.

.
eh

  

John Alexander Graham, now Associate Profess
of Romance languages, is the present reigning membe
of the Graham family of Lexington, which has fe
five generations been represented on the faculty |
Washington and Lee. This line of educators had i
beginning at W. & L,., with the inauguration of Willi
Graham, the first president of the institution, in 178:
John Graham, holder of the A.B. and M.A. degree
graduated in 1914. As chairman of the committee ¢
social and public functions, he directed the recent if
auguration of President Gaines. Music is his hobby
however, and much of his time is devoted to the gle
club, which is under his supervision. “Fight! Fight
Blue and White,” one of the popular school songs,
one of his many musical compositions. He is a mem
ber of the Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, and Phi Bet
Kappa.

20, B.A., Assistant P
Continued on Page 26

George Junkin Irwin,

E ee. eo

aS, ae

I

N

E

 

 

 

Charleston Lawyer a Cue Wizard in

When Cy Hall attended Washington and Lee, from 1918
to 1923, he was known as the best billiard shot ever enrolled
at the University. Many of his fellow students will woefully
testify to the accuracy of this statement.

His skill with the cue, however, in no way deterred him
in campus activity, for he was a member of the Sigma Nu
social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Alpha Delta,
Square and Compass, Sigma Cotillion Club, Pi Alpha Nu, and

1918

Kappa Beta Phi.

dent of the Cotillion Club.
cian.

ed, “the boys took their politics seriously.”
Hall received his LL.B. degree in 1923.

where he is now practicing law.

 

Aside from fraternal affiliations, he was a member of the
Calyx staff, president of the Intermediate law class, and presi-

Cy, whose real name was Cyrus W., was a rabid _ politi-

‘And in those days,” one of his fellow students remark-

Since then, he has been active as an alumnus, often return-
ing to Lexington from his home in Charleston, West Virginia,

 

 

 

THE LAST OF THE “CAPTAINS”

Since 1894 the Washington and Lee squad, dash-
ing upon the field, has been led by its Captain. Page
‘Bledsoe, captain of this year’s team will be the last
of this long line of heroes, due to the action of last
year’s Athletic Council in banning the election of team
captains in future years.

Lindsay Moore, ’22, has been the only man to
lead the team for two years. He held the position of
captain for 1920 and 1921. Brothers of two former
Washington and Lee captains are members of the
present team. In 1922 Mattox’s educated toe kicked
the Big Blue team to a Southern Conference victory.
His brother is now outstanding backfield man of the
Generals. The original “Tex” Tilson, brother of the
present “Tex” was the leader of the Generals in 1924,
playing tackle.

“Granny” Campbell, at present Professor of Poli-
tical Science, was the fighting leader of the Washington
and Lee team in 1893. In 1916 “Cy” Young led the
team. The 1915 team was led by “Dutch” Shultz,
who was considered the greatest tackle in the South
and an All-American. ‘“‘Jiggs’’ Donahue, speedy quar-
terback, led the 1914 team to an undefeated season and
a great scoring record.

The captain of the Generals to obtain national
fame was Ty Rauber in 1926. This plunging full-
back and great kicker was named on the first all-South-
ern and the third all-American teams picked by the
Associated Press. It was he who scored the Fast’s
three points when they were defeated 7-3 in the annual
East-West game that year.

STAMP COPY FURNISHED

Washington and Lee University has mailed to the
United States Post Office Department a photograph of
the portrait of George Washington when he was an
officer in the British forcés during the French and In-
dian war of 1763. ‘This portrait is the original by
Peale, and the photograph was sent at the request of F.
A. Tilton, third assistant Postmaster General, for pos-
sible use as the design for one of the postage stamps of
the Washington commemorative issue of 1932.

The Peale portrait is part of the collection of orig-
inals which hangs in Lee Chapel on the Washington
and Lee campus.

sy
VV

TROUBADOURS GIVE “JOURNEY’S END”

One of the first amateur productions of R. C.
Sheriff's notable play, “Journey’s End,” in this country,
was given by the Washington and Lee Troubadours
the first of December. The play was secured through
the Samuel French Co., of New York, and was directed
by Prof. A. U. Moore.

The organization will take the road in January,
playing at the women’s colleges of Hollins, Sweet
Briar, and Farmville.

 

Ted Harris, ’23, now with the National Radio
Homemakers Club at 1819 Broadway, recently staged
a performance of Channing Pollock’s ‘The Enemy,”
for a nation-wide hook-up, the play being adapted by
Harris and directed by Augustin Duncan. Mr. Duncan

‘also had the leading character role.

19 ]

ke G A (Li 3 e

1930 a Good Sports Year at W. & La

 

Ss)’ H the arrival of 1931, thousands of alumni
-\and interested followers of the athletic fortunes
of the Washington and Lee Generals look to
a new 7 order of things in sports activity at the Lexington
institution during the coming year.

 

 

 

 

A survey of the record, January, 1930, at W. &

|... to the present, shows that two state championships,
a Southern Conference title, third place in another S.
|. C. tourney, and two excellent freshman teams with
records bidding for state honors have been the year’s
crop.

‘The present year was ushered in auspiciously with
the Generals taking undisputed possession of the State
basketball title, soundly trouncing Richmond, William
and Mary, Bridgewater, Virginia two games, and V. P.
I. twice. Going as pre-tourney favorites to the S. I. C.
joust at Atlanta, the Generals were eliminated in a sur-
prise game by ‘Tennessee in the second round.

The Varsity wrestlers, working under Coach A. E.
Mathis, former Illinois star and Big Ten champion at
the 145-pound class, swept through a schedule of six
meets, defeating William and Mary, Army, Virginia,
North Carolina State, V. P. I. and Duke. At the first
Southern Conference tournament at V. M. I., the Gen-
erals could do no better than tie for third, with but one
individual title coming here. ‘Tex Tilson, 175-pounds,
surmounted all opposition in his class to win the indi-
vidual award in his weight.

The Varsity indoor track squad, under the tute-
lage of Coach Forrest Fletcher, former Notre Dame
and Olympic hurdler, won the first Southern Confer-
ence indoor track carnival at Chapel Hill, N. C., defeat-
ing the powerful Carolina team, 29-27, with the Gen-
erals relay team, winning the meet.

The freshman wrestling team won the yearling
title in State competition, defeating William and Mary,
Virginia, A. M. A., and V. P. I. with but seventeen
points scored against them.

The freshman team lost but one meet, being de-
feated 6-1 by S. M. A. Victories were won over North
Carolina, V. P. I., and Greenbriar.

The freshman baseball team dropped but one con-
test, that to V. P. I., 3-2, and then secured revenge, 5-3,
in a return engagement.

Prospects for the whole line of activity, wrestling,
boxing, swimming, basketball, indoor track, baseball,
and track appear brighter for the cominggyear. ‘The
rapidly developing reserve material scale up from
freshman teams has proven invaluable tg the Varsity
squads, and the coaches in all sports figure their chances
for a good season as slightly better than last year.

Already the Varsity wrestling team has started in

[ 20 ]

_ soe, Jr., representing the 1930 football squad, present

M A..G AZ. ae

  
   
 
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
 
 
  
   
   

i

—

with a 34-0 victory over Richmond Y. M. C, A, a
Coach Ray Ellerman’s cagers opened their season
a 50-14 victory over the Shawnee Club.

ee,
=

OBERST LEAVES STAFF

Iugene Oberst, for the last two years head foo
ball coach at Washington and Lee University, will nm
return here next season, according to an announceme
made to the press early in December. 4

After a conference with athletic authorities het
the former Notre Dame star tackle made the follows
announcement : 4

‘““My two-year contract to coach football at Was
ington and Lee has expired. I shall not return né
year. My term of coaching at Washington and Leeh
not met with success as far as victories are co
cerned. I have been well satisfied, however, with t
boys’ efforts in most of the games we have played int
last two years. I sincerely wish the boys the best hu
in the future and hope my leaving will drive away t
jinx that has pursued the team for the last six yee

Oberst came to Washington and Lee from L
Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind., where he was
coach. Before coming here, he had enjoyed an envial
record, his football teams having lost only five gam
in five years. At Notre Dame, Oberst was a mains
in the Rambler line from 1920 to 1923. As a javel
thrower, he also made an international name for
self, representing the United States at the 1924 Olymy
games and taking third place. 4

Graduate Manager Richard A. Smith spoke high
of Coach Oberst, who was a favorite with his men. ©

“While Gene hasn’t won the victories so essent
to success for a football coach, he has taught our mit
more football than any coach I have ever known.” &
Smith said. ‘My candid opinion is we never have hi
and probably never shall have a finer man than Ge
Oberst as football coach at Washington and Lee. V
hate to see him go. During the Oberst regime, Was
ington and Jee has won six games, tied two and Ie
eleven. This is a repetition of the tootball situation
the University for hakf a dozen years.” ‘

When asked about his future plans. Oberst sail
“T have nothing in mind at present, but undoubted
shall stay in the coaching game.” 7

As a token of appreciation of the esteem in whl
the football men held Gene Oberst, Captain Page Ble

Coach Oberst with a gold knife and chain at an int

lude during the wrestling matches with Richmond ~
M. C. A., December 13.

 

a H E A LU MN

=
DEAN PLEADS FOR CULTURAL ARTS

Advantages and objectives to be found in the cul-
al liberal arts college formed the basis of the address

I

eum ts JA Z aa Nye

thought, the speaker quoted St. Paul in saying, “Do
not depreciate prophetic revelations; but test them all
and hold fast to the good.” -

 

tur : , : ‘ O

of Dean Henry Donald Campbell in his president's

message to the Association of Colleges and Secondary ST. CLAIR GIVES $25,000

Schools of the Southern States in convention at the A gift of $25,000 by George W. St. Clair, of ‘Taze-

Atlanta Biltmore Hotel December 6.

Doctor Campbell, dean of Washington and Lee Uni-
yersity, |.exington, Va., used his own school as an ex-
ample of the cultural university, and plead for coopera-
ton between educational experts and men of long teach-
ing experience in directing destinies of institutions of
higher learning.

Dean Campbell was elected president of the Asso-
ciation at its last annual meeting. For thirty-five years,
eyer since the founding of the organizatiqn, the Wash-
ington and Lee educator has been a leader in the asso-
ciation. Membership now includes the 109 colleges
and universities, 21 teacher-training colleges, 23 junior
colleges, and 1,105 secondary schools.

Dean Campbell pointed out last night that the effi-
cient liberal arts college is the one which is progressive
but not radical, conservative but not reactionary. It is
the institution, he inferred, which takes hold of a new
thing because it has been proved rather than because it
is radical. Pointing out that the cultural institution
feels free to modify its curriculum only after mature

well, has been announced by President Francis P.
Gaines.

The gift represents a contribution toward the en-
dowment of a permanent chair of Religion, including
Bible and Christian Ethics, at Washington and Lee.
This subject is at present included in the curriculum
of the University as one of the regular departments,
and the donor wishes to guarantee the perpetuity of this
course by creating a special endowment for it.

Mr. St. Clair was graduated from Washington
and Lee with the LL.B. degree in 1890. He is rector
of the Board of Trustees of the University.

tient
VV

Lee R. Grabill, Jr., 14, has returned to Washing-
ton, D. C., after five years in Wilmington, Dela., to the
management of the Washington office of the E. I. du
Pont de Nemours Company.

>
a

Edwin S. Frost, Jr., ’14, is with the Frank D.
Walter Co., Securities-Investment Counsel, Corpora-
tion Financing, at 37 Wall St., New York.

 

“Monk” No. II Now

Marvin B. was the second famous “Monk” of the Mattox
family. He attended Washington and Lee from 1919 to 1923.

Mattox “Monks” have long been renowned throughout
\irginia, and particularly at W. and L., for athletic prowess,
and ““Monk” No. II was no exception to the rule. As half-
back on the football team, a member of the basketball squad,
and catcher on the baseball team, he upheld the reputation of
his brother Jim, before him.

In 1922, as captain of the Fighting Generals, he led his
team in a 12-12 tie with West Virginia. This was the first
year Washington and Lee was coached by Jimmy DeHart.

‘our years before, in 1919, he had watched his brother Jim,
‘irst of the W. & L. “Monks,” and at that time varsity quarter-
back, lead the Generals to victory over Georgia Tech, for the
Southern Conference championship. ‘‘Monk’’ No. II was then
a substitute end on the freshman eleven, understudy to Johnny
Corbett, the lightest man on the team.

‘Monk’ No. Il was a member of the Kappa Sigma social
‘raternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma. He was unani-
iously elected president of the Athletic Council for 1922-23.
A.B. degree.

in the Insurance Business

 

In the latter year, he received his
His home while attending college was at Leesville, Virginia.
Those who know “Monk” No. II and “Monk” No. IIT, Washington and Lee’s scintillating half-

back this year, say the latter is a vest pocket edition of the former. They are exactly alike, it is said,
in looks, speech, gait, manner, and general appearance, their only dissimilarity being in size.
‘‘Monks” No. I and II are now in the insurance business in Salisbury, North Carolina.

 

 

 

[ 21 ]

es A LA oi “WN

Commerce—A Study In Growth

HE Washington and Lee School of Commerce
and Administration, the first such school in
the South, has grown from one course in Moral
and Political Philosophy, Political Economy, and the
{aw of Nations, through a Business School, a depart-
ment of Economics and Political Science, to the School
of Commerce which was established in 1906, It has
numbered on its faculty some of the leading economists
of the South, it has produced many prominent men ; and
it is now one of the foremost and most progressive
Schools of Washington and Lee University.

The history of the School of Commerce is closely
bound up with that of the University. In 1792 the
Board resolved that “Divinity according to the prin-
ciples of the Presbyterian Church should be taught

. In connection with the Science of Human Na-
ture.” In 1803 the seniors were required to study the
Laws of Nature and Nations. In 1821 the plan of
studies required a course in Moral and Political Phil-
osophy. In 1825 the Law of Nations was included,
and in 1830 one of the examinations was held in Po-
litical Economy. Henry Vethake, who was president
of the College in 1835, was “learned in Political Econ-
omy.”

From 1836 to 1848 the course of study included
Moral and Political Philosophy, Constitution of the
United States, Law of Nations, and Political Economy.
The latter course was given regularly from 1841 to the
outbreak of the Civil War.

When Robert E. Lee became president of the Col-
lege after the war, he established a department of His-
tory and Political Economy. In 1868 a beginning was
also made of a “Students’ Business School” though
the work was limited to book-keeping and business
forms and procedure, and it was expressly stated that
the School was not a part of the regular College course.
In his plans, however, for the reorganization of the
College with a view to meeting the new conditions in
the South, General Lee had probably the first concep-
tion in America of a well-rounded School of Commerce.
In 1869 he transmitted to the Board of Trustees a re-
port, signed by five members of the faculty, in which
it was proposed to extend the departments of the Col-
lege “‘by the establisment of departments of Agricul-
ture, Commerce, and Applied Chemistry.”

In his letter of transmittal, General Lee said, in
referring to the proposed department of Commerce,
“In recommending a Commercial School it is proposed
not merely to give instruction in book-keeping and in
the forms and details of business, but to teach the prin-

ciples of Commercial Economy, Trade, and Mercantile
Law.”

  

[ 22 ]

MAGA Z Ea

    
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
    
  

General Lee's death in 1870 prevented the fu]
ment of his plans. ‘The Business School was ab
doned in 1874 and the stibject of Political Eeonomy
not mentioned in the University courses between ]
and 1887. In the latter year Political Economy
offered as a part of a division of Political Séienee
the department of Moral Philosophy, headed by Py
James A, Quarles. In 1894 the name was changed
Economics. From this point the work and cc 1
rapidly expanded into an independent department
Economics and Political Science in 1898, under F
H. Parker Willis, and into a modern School of
merce, the first to be established in the South, in If

The faculty of the present School of Comme
and Administration is composed of ten men, —
Glover Dunn Hancock is Dean of the School and Y
son Professor of Economics and Commerce.
Robert H. Tucker is Professor of Economics and B
ness Administration. Dr. Robert Granville Came
is Professor of Political Science. The other memk
of the faculty are William Coan, Professor of
merce and Accounting, Rupert Nelson Latture, /
ciate Professor of Political Science and Sociology,
Ogden Phillips, Assistant Professor of Economics
Commerce, Paul Parker Cooper, Associate Profe:
of Business Administration, Earl Wallace Bibb, As
tant Professor of Economics and Business Adminis
tion, Cecil Douglas Smith, Assistant Professor of 4
counting, and John Higgins Williams, Instructor
Political Science. .

Glover Dunn Hancock, A.B., A.M., Ph.D., 4
born in Los Angeles, California. He received his A
from William Jewell College, in Liberty, Mo., in 18
his A.M. from the same institution in 1899. In FE
he received the degree of doctor of philosophy f
the University of Wisconsin. He was for three
special agent for the Wisconsin Tax Commission. Ff
1908 to 1910 he was Assistant Professor of Econor
at Amherst College. Since 1910 he has been at Wa
ington and Lee University, first as Professor of E
nomics and Commerce, from 1910 to 1919, and
Dean of the School of Commerce and Adminis
since its reorganization in 1819.

Robert Henry Tucker, A.B., A.M., LL.D.,
born in Lunenburg County, Va. He was gradua
from William and Mary College in 1893, received
A.M. in 1897, and his LL.D. degree in 1926 from >
same institution. He was instructor in English ¢
History at William and Mary, then Associate Profess
of German and English, Dean of Science and Lite
ture, and Vice-President of the State Agricultural
Mechanical College, Oklahoma. He came to Wa

- H eae MN
=

ington and Lee as Associate Professor of Economics
and Commerce in 1915. From 1919 on he has been
Professor of Economics and Administration. He was
acting president of Washington and Lee University
from January to June, 1930, after which time he was
made Dean of the College.

Robert Granville Campbell, A.B., A.M., Ph.D.,
was born at Glenwood, Va. He was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1898, and recieved his A.M. in
1899. He was fellow in Political Science at Johns
Hopkins, where he received his Ph.D. degree in 1908.
Since that time he has been a professor at Washington
and I.ee. He was special lecturer on citizenship with
the army educational corps, A.E.F., in France, and
economic investigator for the

I

am G&G A Zeit mM oe
factors of Washington College. In addition to the
Commerce school, the building contains the offices of
the President, Dean, Registrar, and others connected
with the administration. The lecture rooms of the
Commerce School, the library stack-room and reading
room, and the offices of the department are also in
Newcomb Hall. The Department of Accounting oc-
cupies the upper floor of the power plant building.
There are two lecture rooms, two offices, and a labora-
tory fitted with adding machines, slide rules, and other
equipment for work in accounting and statistics.

The Commerce library containes several thousand
volumes, and new booxs and periodicals are purchased
by an annual fund of around eight thousand dollars set

aside for this purpose.

 

United States Shipping Board at

London, England, in 1919.
Among the more prominent

men who have been associated

School Surveys

Instruction in economics and
political science is supported by
the Wilson Memorial Fund of
$100,000, which was created in

with the family of the School of
Commerce in the past are H.
Parker Willis, who was profes-
sor from 1898 to 1905, the late
Robert F. Hoxie, who was until
his death professor in the Uni-
versity of Chicago, and William
Jett Lauck, who was Associate
Professor of Economics and Po-
litical Science from 1905. till
1908. Dr. Willis, after leaving
Washington and Lee, has been
Secretary of the Federal Reserve
Board, consulting economist for
the Board, Editor of the New

These school reviews are printed
in the belief that alumni of Washing-
ton and Lee are just as interested in
growth and progress of different
phases of work at the University as
they are in the institution as a whole.

This article on Washington and
Lee’s School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration is the first of a series
dealing with divisions of the Univer-
sity. Subsequent reviews of the
School of Law, the School of Applied
Science, and other divisions of Wash-
ington and Lee will appear in iuture
issues of the Alumni Magazine.

memory of William L. Wilson,
who served as president of the
University from 1897 until his
death in office in 1900. By terms
of the deed of gift accompanying
the foundation of the income
from this fund is devoted to the
maintenance and development of
the department.

The School of Commerce
and Administration had last year
214 students. This figue does
not include freshmen. For ad-
mission to the Commerce school
one year of college work, either

 

 

York Journal of Commerce,

 

at Washington and Lee or some

 

President of the Philippine

National Bank, chairman of the Banking Commission
of the Irish Free State, and Professor of Banking
since 1917 at Columbia University.

The School of Commerce has produced many well-
known alumni. Of these Major Leroy Hodges, Basil
M. Manly, Edgar Sydenstricker, W. Jett Lauck, and
others are perhaps the most prominent. Major Hodges
is chairman of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce;
Mr. Manly is an economist and journalist of note, be-
ing special correspondent for the New York Evening
World, the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, the Newark Even-
ing Post, and other papers; Mr. Sydenstricker is a
Statistician connected with the United States Public
Health Service in Washington; Mr. Lauck is now
consulting economist and director of the Bureau of
Applied Economics.

The School of Commerce and Administration has
its own endowment, quarters, and library. It is hous-
€d in Newcomb Hall. This building was erected by
Mrs. Josephine Louise Newcomb in 1882 in memory
of her husband, Warren Newcomb, one of the bene-

other college of recognized stand-
ing, is required. ‘There are fifty applicants for degrees
in Commerce and Administration this year.

The School of Commerce and Administration has
been for four years a member of the Association of
Collegiate Schools of Business. This distinction is
one which is awarded only to those schools which come
up to certain requirements of the Association. There
are some forty members in the United States at present.

With the reorganization of the School of Com-
merce in 1919, the administration made possible great-
er specialization than had been possible before. There
are four specialization groups, Business Administra-
tion, Banking and Finance, Accounting, and Public
Administration. Courses in any of these four groups
lead to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Commerce
and Administration.

a
VV

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, has been elected
president of the Richmond, Virginia Academy of Medi-
cine at the association's annual meeting held at the
Westmoreland Club.

[ 23 ]

1. tk toe Ay Se kee ee

Arcades Club Becomes D. U. Chapter

 

mame LTA UPLISON, national social fraternity,

ne Piwas installed at Washington and Lee on Sat-
uF lurday, December 6th, initiating the members
ot the Ricades Club into the fifty-sixth chapter of that
organization.

The installation took place in the chapter house
which was decorated with American, Canadian, and
Delta Upsilon flags. About fifty men were initiated
as charter members of the local fraternity. Many
Alumni, members of the Arcades Club were present for
the ceremonies.

Luncheon was held at the Robert E. Lee Hotel,
at which time pins were given to the new initiates.

A reception was given by the new chapter, from
four to six, to the faculty, guests, and members of the
Representatives from all the fraternities

 

 

 

 

student body.
were present to congratulate the new members of the
twentieth national fraternity now represented at Wash-
ington and Lee.

The formal banquet was held at the Robert IV. Lee
Hotel in the evening, Dr. Francis P. Gaines being one
of the chief speakers. President Gaines said in part:

ringing Delta Upsilon to Washington and Lee
is an occasion for congratulation to the fraternity and
the university. Your group comprises student leaders
at a number of America’s chief schools and counts
among its interested alumni many distinguished citi-
zens. ‘Today you add a body of young men who will
enhance the splendor of its roll.

“The college fraternity, no longer a mere isolated
group of comrades on the local campus, has come to be
a positive factor in education. No boy is ever the
same after his fraternity experience; for better, or
rarely for worse, his life is changed. No university
can afford to be unmindful of the tremendous compul-
sions exerted within the academic communities by the
fraternities.

“It is a hopeful sign that the great fraternities,
through their official policies, and through their collec-
tive sentiment and inspiration have joined the local ad-
ministrations in an effort to make the life of the indi-
vidual chapter not only pleasant but stimulating, not
only rich in fellowship but inspiring for life’s purposes.

To this end we pledge our strongest cooperation; be- -

lieving that the fraternity realizes its finest destiny
when it is able to turn its enormous influence toward
strengthening the honor and fortifying the hopes of
each member.”

Mr. Roscoe B. Ellard, for five years Professor of
Journalism at Washington and Lee, and now Proiessor
at the University of Missouri, was toastmaster of the
banquet, and Charles Irving Lewis, president of the

[ 24 ]

  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

MA. G A Z oa

local chapter paid tribute to the work coms for
Club by Mr. Ellard. |

The presidents of all the fraternities on the
pus were guests of the new fraternity as well ast
members of the faculty, and undergraduates {
chapters of Delta Upsilon at the University of Virg
Johns Hopkins, and from the petitioning chap te
North Carolina. 4

The following men were initiated as charter ¢
bers of the new fraternity :

Rupert Nelson Latture °15, Emmett Willi
Poindexter ’20, Maurice Jardine Crocker ’23, ]
Alvin Ingram ’23, William Lester Leap ’23, Cee f
liam Hickman ’25, Donald Gray Kaylor ’25, Wi
Louis Woolfolk ’25, Isaac Hamilton Shupp ’26, |
ace M. Bell ’27, Charles L. Claunch ’27, Hudson |
ett ’27, Jerome Marshall Allen ’28, Gerald Ft
Horine ’28, Robert William Hawkins ’29, John —
ton Davis ’30, Charles Irving Lewis ’30, Russell €
Morrow ’30, John Craig Clark ’31, Merle Gillan |
zel °31, Waldo Sherman Lopez ’31, John Westcot
rose ’31, Marvin Nelson Pilley ’31, Richard Hai
Ruff 31, Stuart Sanders II ’31, Frank Harrison
ningham °32, Frank Bell Lewis ’32, Richard :
Sanford, Jr., ’32, William Shurtleff Barker 33,
ert George Brust ’33, Charles Darwin Chicheste:
'33, George Allister Henry ’33, Henry Taylor |
f eer Vaughan Saunders °33, Joe Henry
hit |
s following men were made members r
sentia : |

John Wilson Bowyer ’21, George Edward E
‘23, Walter Lee Simmons ’24, Thomas Morrell
‘24, Edwin Henry Howard ’25, Ralph Lucas Seo
William Wilson Morgan a Samuel Adolph Bloc

 

Stuart Moore, A.B. 15, LL.B. ’21, memball
Lexington bar, has been appointed examiner Of
ords for Rockbridge, Augusta, and Highland —
ties. The appointment was made by C. H. M
sett, State Tax Commissioner. The duties of th
aminer are to take returns of all fiduciary estate
trust funds to the state for taxation. Mr. M
appointment became effective Dec. 15th, 1930. —

Hilliard Hagan Smith, Jr., ’26, was killed
automobile accident near Lexington, Ky. His:
was at Hindman, Ky. q

Jess R. Hainline, ’20, of Huntington, W. Va
found dead in an automobile on the outskirts of .
field, Ohio, on the morning of December 12th.

 

- Hoe

Saw. 6M: Nee

meena G A ZeIiuN' se

 

 

 

— DEAPHS
_ THAD W. SMITH

Thad W. Smith, 73 years old, Marriage Record
Clerk of Rexar County, who had never smoked, drunk
intoxicating liquor, shaved or uttered a profane word
in his life, died at San Antonio at his home November
27, aiter an illness of four days.

Mr. Smith was born in San Antonio and had filled
public office continuously since he was 19, when he was
appointed County Clerk on the death of his father. He
filled several other offices.

tle vowed when a small boy he would never smoke,
drink, utter a profane word or shave. He was a gradu-

ate of Washington and Lee University and was said to

have been noted on the campus on account of his beard
and the cowboy boots which he always wore.

Mr. Smith’s white beard reached to his waist. In
recent years he refused to trim it. His eyesight was
bad the past few years, and it was said that he had to
bend so close to the marriage register that his beard
blotted the ink on freshly written records and that he
often caught his long whiskers in the heavy book when
he closed it suddenly.

—QO-—

CHARLES M. BARROW, ’86

Charles M. Barrow died at his home, Belmont
Plantation, Baines, La., on August 27, 1930.

‘he death of Mr. Barrow removes the oldest mem-
_ ber of a large and prominent family of that name. A
native and lifelong resident of West Feliciana parish,
_ he has been closely identified with every interest of the
_ parish for a great many years.
‘\s a boy in his teens he entered the Civil War as
~ amember of Forrest’s Cavalry and served for two and
a half years. He was the last surviving Confederate
_ Veteran out of three companies enlisted in the Civil

War.

In the fall of 1865 he entered Washington College,
_ Where he became a member of the Alpha Tau Omega
3 fraternity.
| Te rendered valuable service to his parish and
_ State in the reconstruction period, following the Civil
War. He served as sheriff of West Feliciana parish
- for fifteen years and was known as a fearless, con-
Cientious officer. He was an ardent sportsman and a
_ §Teat lover of horses, a breeder and owner of thorough-
bred horses, racing them at all the prominent tracks in
the country of that day.

Mr. Barrow is survived by his widow, who was

Miss Flo Koerner of Indiana, and one brother, Sam L.
Barrow.

SAMUEL McCAIN YOUNG, ’98

The death of Samuel McCain Young, ’98, in New
Orleans, La., on October 29th, came as a great shock
to his many friends among the alumni.

Mr. Young was operated upon for an acute at-
tack of appendicitis and was thought to have stood the
operation well. However, complications developed and
he sank rapidly.

Mr. Young obtained his degree in engineering
from Washington and Lee in 1898. His first engineer-
ing work was with the topographical survey service of
the United States government. He worked on various
engineering projects in Georgia and Texas and began
his career in Louisiana in the construction of the New
Orleans, Great Northern railroad.

Mr. Young became a captain in an engineering
regiment during the World War, and when hostilities
ceased returned to New Orleans and resumed his prac-
tice of engineering. He became chief engineer of the
New Orleans Dock Board in 1921, which post he con-
tinued to hold until his death. In this work he super-
vised the construction of the great docks and sheds cost-
ing many millions of dollars.

He was born at Grenada, Miss., Dec. 14, 1873.
He is survived by his father, Dr. John W. Young, of
Grenada, Miss., a noted physician of that section, and
by his wife. He was a member of the Delta ‘Tau Delta
Fraternity, and was initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at
Washington and Lee last May.

tele

ROBERT L. OWEN, ’93

Robert Leigh Owen died Sunday, Dee. 7, in Jack-
son Memorial Hospital after an illness of a month.

Mr. Owen was a native of Halifax county and
had been for nearly forty years a resident of Lexing-
ton, where he engaged in farming, merchandising, and
insurance. He was made treasurer of the town of
Lexington ten yeats ago and proved a fine executive.

He was a man of attractive social! qualities and
mingled much in society.

Mr. Owen was born in Halifax county, Va., March
27, 1872.

He was educated at Pantops Academy, Hampden-
Sidney College, and Washington and Lee University,
finishing his courses here in 1893. Soon afterwards
he bought land near Lexington and began his active
life here. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity. ,

He married in Lexington, Va., Feb. 12, 1902, Mary
Louise Brockenbrough, daughter of Francis H. and
Mrs. Sarah Paxton Brockenbrough, of Lexington.

He is survived by his widow and three daughters,
Mrs. Nell Owen Paxton, wife of Matthew W. Paxton,
Jr., of Lexington; Mrs. Sarah Owen Christian, wife
of Morris H. Christian, of Richmond, and Mary Car-
rington Owen.

[ 25 ]

; Hes

SIXTEEN ALUMNI TEACHING
Continued From Page 18

fessor of Romance Languages. When President
Henry Louis Smith announced to the student body on
May 12, 1917, that the War Department had requested
thirty-six volunteers immediately for service overseas,
Irwin was one of the seventy-five men who volunteered.
Selected as one of the thirty-six to go from Washington
and Lee was sent with the rest of the school unit to
Allentown, Penna., where the Washington and Lee
section was known as S. S. U. 534. From this con-
centration center they went over seas to join the U. S.
Army Ambulance Corps serving in the French Army.
Forest Fletcher, head of the department of physical
education here, was top sergeant. Irwin returned to
school, to be graduated in 1920. After doing graduate
work at Princeton, he was appointed to the faculty here
in 1925. While a member of the student body, Irwin
was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta, social frater-
nity, ran on the cross-country team, and played in the
mandolin club.

A’. E- Ue MeN

Walter Abraham Flick, ’24, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.,
Associate Professor of Education and Psychology.
Perhaps the freshman’s first sample of collegiate class
life, is the morning he takes the psychological tests
under the direction of Dr. Flick. Huddled in the back
of the gymnasium, the first year men receive their in-
structions as to just how the test should be answered.
And every year Dr. Flick will tell you that the fresh-
man intelligence quota for that class is higher than for

the preceding year. He was appointed to the faculty
in 1925.

Frank J. Gilliam, 717, A.B., M.A., Associate Pro-
fessor of English. It’s a long way from the Belgian
Congo, Africa, to Lexington, Va., but that is the dis-
tance this professor traveled to join the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1926. Gilliam was an educational
missionary at the Southern Presbyterian Mission in
the Belgian Congo, but returned to the States because
of his wife’s health. His home here is located on the
hill occupied by the ruins of Liberty Hall Academy,
and members of the student body will tell you that on
good afternoons, students and his friends often go
horseback riding with him. Gilliam is a member of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity, and Omicron
Delta Kappa, leadership fraternity.

Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21, B.A., M.A., (Oxon)
Associate Professor of English. Undergraduate days
filled with activities connected with school publications,
and public speaking is the collegiate past of Flournoy.
While a student here he was editor of the Mink, ac-
tive on the Ring-tum Phi and Calyx staffs, and repre-
sented the state in the intercollegiate oratorical contest.
Later he won the Rhodes scholarship and studied at
Oxford. lor four years he held the Daughters of the

[ 26 ]

I

‘ton and Lee University, and was graduated in

  
   
 
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
    

M AG A 2a

Confederacy scholarship, and he also gained ¢
Dowell award. in 1920. Due to illness contract,
ing military service, his third year on the camp
interrupted. He is a member of the Phi Kap
social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, lea,
fraternity; Phi Beta Kappa, Delta Sigma Ph
Sigma Tau. .

‘Ss

Earl Wallace Bibb, ’24, B.S., Assistant Pr
of Economics, appointed to the faculty this se
Bibb is the youngest Washington and Lee grad
the roster in terms of service to his Alma Mater
his history here as a professor may be short, his
as a student in the commerce school is a story of
and achievements. President of the senior el;
was also president of Alpha Kappa Psi, commer
ternity. He gained three scholarships, the €
scholarship, the Vincent I). Bradford, and the
McDowell awards. As one scribe wrote about |
his undergraduate days: “Since enrolling at”
ington and Lee, this cowboy from Montana h
ceeded in lassoing about every school honor th
campus affords.” He is a member of the Pi
Phi, social fraternity; Phi Beta Kappa, scholast
ternity; and Omicron Delta Kappa, leadership —
nity. 7

Rupert Nelson Latture, B.A., M.A,
Professor of Political Science and Sociology,
Latture was graduated from Washington and
versity in 1915 with an A.B. degree. He re
the institution in the following year, and was aj
a master’s degree. He then went to France aj
two years fought with the Army. He later le
French Army and joined the American Army,
which he fought until the end of the war.
the service, he was decorated for bravery. In 1§
returned to Washington and Lee as an associat
fessor.

Karle Kerr Paxton, B.A., M.A., Associate F
sor of Mathematics. Mr. Paxton attended Was

with an A.B. degree. He returned the followir
to continue his graduate studies and was award
A.M. degree. In 1925, Mr. Paxton received the
degree from Columbia University. While a s
at Washington and Lee, Mr. Paxton was editor ¢
Ring-tum Phi. He returned in 1920 as an Assi
Professor of Mathematics. | ]

Hale Houston, C.E., Associate Professor of
Engineering. Mr. Houston, or “Uncle Bud,” as
affectionately termed by the students of Was
and Lee, was graduated from this university im
with a degree in Civil Engineering. While an U
graduate here he was a great friend of John W. 1
distinguished alumnus of this institution. —

 
  
   
 

H E A. 2 De M: N
duation Mr. Houston worked with a bridge con-
ction company in Hamilton, Ohio, for a year. He
then taught for two years at Pantops Academy in
Charlottesville, Va. Following this, Mr. Houston
worked for five years with the Toledo Rolling Mill,
Jron and Steel Co., in Toledo, Ohio. After this he
taught at the Toledo Polytechnic School. He remained
there until 1903, when he was offered a position as As-
sociate Professor of Civil Engineering at Clemson
College, South Carolina. In 1916 he was made a full
professor, and remained at this position until 1921,
when he came to Washington and Lee as an Associate
Professor of Civil Engineering.

Other alumni connected with the University in
ether than a teaching capacity are: Paul M. Penick,
treasurer; Earl S. Mattingly, registrar; Richard A.
“Smith, director of athletics; and Harry K. Young,
, alumni secretary.

_".'
VV

REV. ALEXANDER F. LAIRD, ’70

Rey. Alexander F. Laird, ’70, died Sunday morn-
ing, November 2, 1930, at his home in Bennettsville, S.
C. He was buried in New Monmouth Churchyard on
Kerrs Creek in Rockbridge County, Va.

Mr. Laird was born on Kerrs Creek, and was
eighty-four years of age. He entered Washington
College as a student under General Lee just after the
Civil War and graduated in 1870. He then pursued
his studies at the Union Theological seminary and on
_ graduation entered the Presbyterian ministry.

Ly
VV

+H. G. HAWN, ’84

Henry Gaines Hawn, founder and president of
_ the Hawn School of the Speech Arts, recently elected
Commander of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, died
~ November 2, 1930, at his home in South Orange, N. J.

Dr. William Taylor Thom, Jr., °13, recently led a
geological research expedition in the vicinity of Red
Lodge, Montana. Faculty members and students from
anumber of universities and colleges were participants.
Dr. Thom is now Professor of Geology at Princeton,
and represented that institution at the inauguration of
President Gaines.

Ly
Vv

Bruce Woodruff, ’16, has recently formed a part-
nership with Mr. Hollins N. Randolph, under the firm
name of Randolph and Woodruff, for the practice of
law in Atlanta, Georgia.

ty
ae

Walter P. Ritchie, ’29, is a member of the law firm
of Thrasher & Ritchie, of Camden, Ark.
_ W.K. Ramsey, ’08. is Vice-President of the Marr-
Piper Realty Co., of El Paso, Texas.

I

Mea, G: A. Z° EON. 5
GENERAL LEE: EDUCATOR OF BOYS

Continued from page 12

I value the letter he wrote my mother, which is as fol-
lows:
Washington College, Lexington, Virginia.
June 28th, 1870.
Dear Madam:

I have the pleasure of communicating to you the
action of the Faculty of Washington College commend-
ing your son, James R. Winchester, for his distin-
guished industry and success in his studies, during the
late session. With best wishes for his future welfare,
[ am very resp’y,

R. E. LEE, President.
Mrs. Mary Winchester, Near Annapolis, Md.

This letter has been a talisman all through my
life, stimulating me to press forward when difficulties
have confronted me. “It calls to mind a vanished hand
and the sound of a voice that is still.” I think of my
eood-bye that session, a few days before the above let-
ter was written. I stood near his front gate, where he
had stopped, and congratulating me by taking my hand,
he at the same time expressed the hope that I might
find my mother well.

General Lee had given me advice about taking the
course in English when I matriculated. I had entered
the senior class and had studied diligently to graduate
that session. I value his name on that diploma more
than any souvenir of college life. I realize that be-
cause of this faithful study in English I received the
University “Prize Essay” upon graduation with B.A.

It was the custom of General Lee to visit the class
rooms from time to time, particularly on examinations.
He found especial pleasure in the examination of stu-
dents in mathematics. On the occasion of one of his
visits I was “at the board” in geometry and was pre-
pared to give my demonstration. Fortunately, my reci-
tation was perfect and his smile of approval is a precious
memory. My only living professor, then assistant pro-
fessor of mathematics, seemed to have this fact in mind,
when in recently writing to me he referred to my be-
ing his prize student that year under General Lee. I
preserve the letter of Dr. Duncan Campbell Lyle, late
president of the McDonough Institute of Maryland,
along with that of General Lee to my mother. Is it
any wonder that with the inspirational vision held be-
fore them that “duty, the sublimest word in the English
language,” became the motto of all students under Lee?

My sixth impression of our president was his ex-
traordinary consideration and prudence. No one ever
heard a word derogatory of the United States from his
lips or criticism regarding any American citizen, friend
or foe. The only expression that could be linked to
criticism was his answer to a question put to him by a
relative, Mr. Cassius Lee of Alexandria. This con-
versation was reported to me by Cazenove G. Lee, cous-

[ 27 ]

ae BOL eee ee

in of General Lee and the son of Cassius Lee. “Robert
whom do you think was the greatest general in the
Federal army?” was asked by Cassius Lee of General
Lee upon the occasion of a visit to the home of the for-
mer at Menokin, Va. ‘McClellan,’ replied General
Lee without hesitation. Once a student of Washing-
ton College went to General Lee with a question con-
cerning some battle of the war to get information for a
friend who had written him, and the General answered
by saying, ‘‘the people of the South, especially the young
men, should devote their attention to building up the
South.” Therefore, as a mark of deference to the at-
titude of mind of our president, on our campus there
was no violent language directed against the North ever
put into life or circulation.

General Lee was a loyal American citizen, although
the franchise granted the most ignorant n.an in the
country, was denied him. He died as a prisoner of
war, disfranchised in a country he conscientiously
served in the fear of God. His was a considera:ton
and prudence based upon a forgiving spirit. The stv-
dents realized this fact. When a boy was accused of
drunkenness and some of the faculty favored expul-
sion, General Lee asked the question directly: “Have
any of you seen him drunk?” “Have any of you seen
him enter a bar room?” He then added, having had
no answer to his question, “I think we should be very
careful how we are influenced by hearsay.” The mo-
tion to expell the boy was withdrawn and the wisdom
of the action attested by the future most exemplary
life of the student while in college.

My seventh impression of our president, and I
considered it a cardinal virtue, was his sense of justice
and obedience to law. Professor Charles Graves, a
graduate under Lee, afterwards the distinguished dean
of the law school of the University of Virginia, and also
Moores of 1868, have given wonderful accounts of the
sense of justice General Lee manifested regarding a
lynching at Washington College. The son of one of
the professors was shot by a negro on the streets of
Lexington, as the youth about fifteen years of age was
coming home from church with his mother. The negro
was politely requested to give a part of the sidewalk,
became infuriated and shot the boy, inflicting a serious
and what was thought to be at the time a fatal wound.
A number of former Confederate soldiers, with a num-
ber of students, endeavored to lynch the culprit. There
came immediately a letter from General Lee requesting
that the law be allowed to take its course. The news
of the threatened lynching reached the North, where
feeling was intense. General Grant sent General Wil-
cox to Lexington to investigate, and after a develop-
ment of facts, the whole matter was left in the hands of
General Lee by authorities in Washington. It is not
to be wondered that the students of Lee imbided an at-
titude of violent opposition to lynch law.

The students of those days under the ablest teach-

[ 28 ]

‘derlying his justice and gentleness was a positivene :

   
 
   
    
     
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
 
  
   

MA GA Z ta

ers of law, as represented by Judge Brockenbrough g
Judge Randolph Tucker, had extraordinary advantay
in their instruction, but they had an example of f
social justice in the president of Washington Co e
When a minister of the gospel one day spoke sluri
of the Northern people as “Yankees,” General Lee }
terposed with the statement “the book from which
preach and which I read teaches us forgiveness.” [
as recalled by Professor Humphreys, when a num
of students decided to force the College faculty it
giving a longer holiday at Christmas. General
hearing of this disposition upon the part of the studen
remarked: “Every man that signs that paper will
summarily dismissed. If all sign it, I shall lock up 1
College and put the keys in my pocket.” The ¢
nouncement on his part put an end to the mutiny. —

I have given my impressions of my beloved pre
dent, as gathered from observation and study at my al
mater, but I do not think this article would be comple
without some reference to Traveller, General Lee’s ”
loved horse. General Lee never seemed quite so co
fortable and at ease as he appeared when astride 1
back of Traveller. Traveller was in keeping with all
the refinement of the Lee home. There was but ¢
student in college, as I have been informed, who ey
rode Traveller. That was Joe Lane Stern, now Gene
Stern, of Richmond, Va. Miss Mary Lee asked J
Lane to deliver, promptly, an important message
garding her father and he was permitted to ride Tre
eller. General Lee was accustomed to speak to Tre
eller as he entered the yard and the horse knew his ¢
proach and voice. ‘The love of the animal for his mi
ter was a reflected counterpart of the feeling that t
students bore to their president and was a quiet trib
to the gentleness and nobility of General Lee.
after the funeral of General Lee, the old war hor
died. I remember that on the sad day of the fune
of General Lee, Traveller walked with down cast lo
so unlike his fiery appearance of former days, appa
ently sensing his loss. ;

Now I come to the climax; namely, the death
General Lee. My fellow student, Lawrence Rust, wi
introduced me to General Lee, came to my room at
announced the shocking news that Lee had just di
The faculty appointed twenty-one of the student bo
to keep guard over the casket’ until the burial. V
watched, two by two, at the casket in the chapel.
that guard I am told that only three are now livin
namely, Rev. Samuel Jester, retired Presbyterian mi
ister, Judge William McChesney, Past Eminent
mander of “Knights Templar of Virginia,” and I. 1
would be impossible to say what emotions I felt wh
removing the cloth from the casket to allow visitors 1
gaze upon the face as calm in death as a summer
His battles were over and he had the sweet rest whi
God gives to the faithful soldier. 4

s
'

   
 

- /
e /

a

Ha Roce. MN

——
The throngs that came to the funeral broke all
records in the mountain town. At the funeral it was

. my duty to head the Confederate veterans who gathered

jn columns and marched through the town to the V. M.

"J. and then to the chapel, where the services were con-

ducted by our rector, Rev. Wm. N. Pendleton, D. D.

_ There were no eulogies. The hymn left upon my heart
~ and minds, as sung at the burial was “How Firm al oun-
dation, Ye Saints of the Lord, is Laid for Your Faith
jn His Excellent Word.” ‘That hymn became popular

watch over the sacred spot.

on Christmas day.
dismal day, indeed. Snow covered the ground.

to this day.

over the great Southland at funerals and so continues
I love it.

An order was passed by the faculty that a student
rd should be daily in the College crypt to keep
It so happened that the
year after General Lee’s death my lot was to keep guard
I remember, it was a lonely and
There
in that basement, I stayed, because of my duty, all of

Christmas day. As I recall, two of my fraternity came
to visit me.

I look back upon that time of meditation,
near the tomb of him I loved, as one of the most blessed

_ periods in my life. I sat there alone with a little fire
of coals in the grate, near the vaulted apartment, and

life.

had uplifting spiritual meditations—getting a view of
conquest over our last enemy, helpful to me through
To this good day the cadets of the Virginia Mili-

tary Institute passing by, always give the solemn salute,
and the students are taught to reverence Lee’s resting
place. Valentine’s recumbent stature, in that chapel,
seems life-like, embodying, as it were, the impressions
_I have tried to enumerate.

The monument of the president of our college

fests securely in the heart of every student who had
_ the privilege of the advantages of the wonderful Uni-

versity, now bearing his name, and who received ideals
of inspiration and conceptions of lofty citizenship from

_ the presence, the precept and example of General Rob-

ert Edward Lee.

_ if I did not also testify to the true son of a great father,

George Washington Custis Lee, who succeeded to the

; Presidency of Washington College and took the same
_ Interest in me that his father had taken.

I associate General Robert Edward Lee with the

- words of the beloved Disciple in his letter to the Church
at Philadelphia: “Him that overcometh, I will make a

illar in the temple of my God and he shall go no more
out. I will write upon him the name of the city of my
God which is new Jerusalem which cometh down out

_ Of heaven from God. And I will write upon him my
_ hew name.”

_ “The marbles ye raise may to atoms be ground,

Fame’s temples forgotten may be; |
But while life shall love valor or heroes be crowned,
Men will honor the knighthood of Lee.”

I would not be just to my convictions -

I

Dome 4s A Za IN es

CALENDAR SHOWS BUSY YEAR
Continued from page 15

last ten years is again supplying the
music.

June 1—Pan-White Friar Dansant at eleven
o'clock in the Gym.
Sigma dance at gym in evening.

June 2—Senior ball held. W. H. Marsh led the
figure.

June 3—Roby Sutherland and Miss Marie Lanier
of Georgia, led the Final dance of the
year.

133 seniors receive degrees in historic
Lee Chapel.
Calyx well received by the students.
(END OF TERM)
Sept 15—Freshman Matriculation begins.

Sept 16—Registration of old students.

Sept. 19—First University Assembly. Dr. Gaines,
the new president, spoke on Fractions
of Men.

Sept 26—Dr. Robert H. Tucker was today made
Dean of the College.

Announcement was made that the Ar-
cades, the only local on the campus has
been granted a charter by the national
Delta Upsilon Fraternity.

By Tuesday of this week 902 men had
been registered. This is the largest
number ever to be registered at this
time.

Oct. 4—Richmond goes down in defeat and
makes the third win for the Generals

this season.

Oct. 10—The Sixth annual S. I. P. A. conven-
tion opened today.

“Who’s Who” lists twelve of the present
faculty at W. & L.

_Oct. 11—Generals bow to W. Va. 13-33.

Oct. 17—News from Lexington officials. Satan,
for many years campus pet and mascot,
was arrested and confined to jail, sus-
pected of having rabies.

Oct. 18—Kentucky wins over W. & L. 33-14.
The drought, prevelant in and about
Lexington, has prevented the swimmers
from getting practice in the pool.

Oct. 19—E. W. Valentine, sculptor of the famous
Recumbent Statue of Lee, died.

Oct 25—Inauguration Day. Dr. Gaines was for-
mally inaugurated into his office in Lee
Chapel this morning and services in his

[ 29 j

 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

ee A bb 4 42-84 M A G A. 2. ia

honor were held in the Gymnasium im- Professor Anderson is Dean of the College of Engineer
mediately afterward. Many notables ing at Tulane, and Professor of Electrical Engineerin
were present in behalf of the Alumni. 3
St. John’s won over W. & L. 7-6. At Judge S. B. Schein, LL.B., ‘11, was recently ap
this game the newly organized band pointed a member of ‘‘Wisconsin Committee on crimina
made its first appearance. Justice,” to revise the criminal laws of Wisconsin,

Nov. 1—Homecoming Day. V. P. I. and W.
& L., fe rivals, fought to a score- A. M. Gilbert, ‘21, Martinsburg, W. Va., was
less tie before a mediocre crowd. elected to the West Virginia Legislature on the Demo.

a cratic Ticket, November 4, 1930.

A luncheon was held for the alumni in
the alumni building. About 250 alumni Ty Rauber, former All-Southern fullback, has
Were perernt signed as football coach ot Washington Central Hig
Satan was given his liberty today, but School to enter the practice of law in the Capital. 3
was sentenced to wear a muzzle for a
while.

Nov. &—Maryland defeated the Generals 41-7. NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

Nov. 10—The debate with representatives of two : q
Scotch Universities, St. Andrews and 4
Glasgow, was well received in the Chap- GRAH AM & t ATHER
el tonight.

Nov. 13—Virginia rally. Team was given a big ‘
send-off. Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a

Nov. 14—Wahoos romp on Generals 21-7. Century

Nov. 22—Tourists Inn players were victorious
over the Kappa Alphas today and won W. & L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES
the Intramural championship.

Nov. 26—Thanksgiving holidays begin. Many
leave for Durham to see W. & L. play
Duke.

Nov. 27—Duke wins 14-0. ‘

Dec. 2—19 men are given major awards for 4
i PRINTERS.

Dec. 6—The Arcades club formally became .
members of Delta Upsilon today. 4

PERSONALS

Rev. Donald W. M. McCluer, D.D., ’07, is pastor
of the Rose City Park Community Church (Presby-
terian,) Portland, Oregon.

Gustive Maurice Braune, ’73, Dean of the School
of Engineering, University of North Carolina, died at
Chapel Hill, December 1930.

Benjamin Haden of Fincastle, Va., has been
elected Judge of the Nineteenth Judicial Circuit, by the
1930 Virginia General Assembly.

T’. O. Bagley, ’07, all-round athlete and Captain in
the World War, is a member of the firm of the Hagen-

Bagley Construction Co., Fayetteville, Tenn.

Prof. Douglas S. Anderson, ’90, represented ‘Tu-

 

lane University at the inauguration of President Gaines.

[ 30 ]

“

 
 
 

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated —

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINJA

 

 
 

 

ae ee.

a» o<”
so a dB ee el ee

  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

Cs > === SSS IRS = }j

)

| BASKET BALL BOXING

= Dec. 18—Sewanee A. C. Lexington Jan. 16—N. C. State Lexington

-

yj Jan. 9—St. Johns Letinaton Jan. 31—Maryland College Park

i} Feb. 7—V. P. I. Blacksburg

| eS en Feb. 14—North Carolina Chapel Hill j}
i} Jan. 14—Lenoir-Rhyne Lexington Feb. 21—Duke Durham —

i Feb. 28—Maryland Lexington

Jan. 17—Georgetown = Washington

} Jan. 19—Maryland College Park WRESTLING W

rf an a x : Dec. 13—Richmond Y.M.C.A. Lex. me

x gers eee 10—Arm West Point

%, Jan. 30—Temple Philadelphia = : 4

ji Jan. 17—N. C. State Lexington ~

om Jan. 31—N. Y. VU. New York Feb. 5—Davidson Lexington ~ ;
_ Feb. 2—Loyola Baltimore Feb. 14—V. P. I. Blacksburg — .
} Feb. 6—Kentucky Lexington, Ky. or ae a

i Feb. 7—W. Va. Huntington, W. Va. SWIMMING

3 Feb. 9—North Carolina Lexington Jan. 17—Duke Durham :

a b. 7—W. M. illiamsburg « ¢

x Feb. 12—W. and M. Lexington Ey See * aaa €

+s Feb. 11—Virginia Lexington #

|| Feb. 14—V. P. I. Lexington f

l| Feb. 18—Virginia Charlottesville a

i Feb. 7—Virginia Lexington’

| Feb. 21—V. P. I. Blacksburg

Feb. 14—Virginia Games Charlottesville —

| |
' Feb. 27—Southern Conference Atlanta March 6—Southern Conf. Chapel Hill

i | bi

|

 

