,

Kf | umni Magazine

of Washington and Lee University

 

Novem ber

[O30

lume 6

Beiimber -

 

$2.56 a Vear

 

 

 

INAUGURATION NUMBER

 

————

 

V Boers G

D

12s

ee ee A

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-

a distance, or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty

ss at oA
a location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are :nvited to place their cards

in the directory. Rates on application.

R. E. MOORE
THOS. F. OGILVIE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank
Building
Bluefield, W.

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Atlantic City, N. J.
Bee : Va.

 

 

I

PHILIP P. GIBSON, °13-’15, Lawyer ALEX M. HITZ

General practice in all State ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
and Federal Courts

Suite 814 Union Bank & Trust Co.

Bldg., Huntington, West Va. Atlanta, Georgia

—_——_———_

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

Citrus Exchange Building.
Tampa, Florida
W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

411 Atlanta Trust Company Building

 

 

Compliments of the President of

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE the Alumni, Inc.

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22

ATTORNEY-AT-]LAW

DoucLas, OsEAR & DoucGLas

Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.

ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
25-29 Citizens National
Building

Parkersburg, W. Va.

Bank

PAUL C. BUFORD, °13
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

811 RBoxley Building
Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E. Smitherman

John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10

David E. Smitherman

Sam W. Mason

SMITHERMAN, T UCKER & MASON
Law Offices

Commercial National Bank
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

 

_ OT —

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building
WVashington, D. C.

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Suite 881 Mills Building
San Francisco, California

Telephone Sutter 3363

GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL

Lewisburg, W. Va.
H. B. Moore, Principal

J. M. Moore, ‘08, Asststant Prin.

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W.&L. Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Miami, and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are
USually 1 or 2 openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. & L. alumni have the preference.

 

2 :DOYV. Be Ry. 2 eee

N

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR
COMPANY, Inc.

DODGE BROS. SALES and SERVICE
Chrysler and Austin Cars

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 Cents

 

 

ATTENTION ALUMNI

 

The management of the little shop which is oper-
ated in conjunction with the Lee Museum wishes to
call your attention to the articles which it has for
sale, consisting of photographs of General Robert E.
Lee, 11 x 14, ready for framing, at 85c. each, includ-
ing postage; the following books at $1.10 per copy, in-
cluding postage: RECOLLECTIONS AND LETTERS
OF ROBERT E. LEE, by his son (a former edition of
this book sold for $5.00): LEE THE AMERICAN, by
Gamaliel Bradford; TWIN PATRIOTS—WASHING-
TON AND LEE—AND OTHER ESSAYS, by Mrs.
Flournoy.

No Southern library is complete without some
books on General Lee. Fill out the coupon and at-
tach check and your order will be taken care of
promptly.

SCOCOE TEESE SEES OSES ESSE EEEE SEE OEESEEEEOEEEESEEE ESOS THES EEEEEEOSESESHOHESHOSEOHOHOOTHSOHEHHHHOEHESEOS

Lee Museum,
Lexington, Va.

Mn GlOSOE TG COCK ee . Bicssckers<ncncancpdcccesececcesescee , for
which pleaS€ SENG ME............cccccccceeeseeeees photographs of
General Robert E. Lee, @i..............ccccccsccssvcrsess copies of

ELI IA LEE DN, EE ES EES A ER CPE

Ping NS. - ST rsc, ecrecthcacetedsedivbaaiokingies daikdatonehbnabtoigngaese

 

 

G Sea Ge Eee

 

  
  

LEXINGTON POO
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always the Gathering Place Of

 

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIEND

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50

CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50

3.00

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order

—
cm
©

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

BE. C. CAFFREY, President E. L. GRAHAM, JR., Treasurer Harry K. Younc, Editor
————— «
VOL. VI NOVEMBER, 1930 NO. 2

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.
—

 

 

es

PAGE PAGE
Dr. Gaines Inaugurated President................ 2 WW; & 1 - Clee Club: Pretec ois. aici iin cd 27
Has He a Hobby? Yes! Just Boys!............ 5 Peatersities): FuGOGE us. inches cctetas: -anadanteece 27
Paper’s Name Won’t Go Modern................. 6 Gregory Elected to High Court...............0.... 28
mt Raft. V. Mik, Ome s siete d... token 7 Alumni and Faculty Represent.................... 28
J. H. Dillard, ’77, Praised by Negro.............. 8 Your Subseription Expires... )./5.0sio os, 0... 28
Bexinoton Aviat08..J.2:...:cccs-eiieeien.- teen 8 Campus Road Compplete.................:cceees 29
Success Following “Tex” and “Eddie”.......... 9 Student Body Officers, 1930-31........0......05. 29
mn the Highwagi iin Gian 10 Paul Rockwell Writes.................cccsccccedeeeeeeees 29
Mootball in 19390si6 0K A7R AA. WR Biatet.. e 11 Alumni Groups Begin Activities.........0....... 30
Record Enrollment at W. & L. This Year........ 15 The Giant of the Western World.................... 31
Harris Fell Into Job By- Luck...................... 16 President Addresses Conventions.................... 31
Edward V. Valentine Dies.................000000. 16 Chicago Boys Honor Lee..............:::ceceees 31
Governor MacCorkle, Trustee, Dead........... 17 Dr. : Tucker Now a: Deani..........5..0h iets 31
Notables Speak at Gaines’ Inauguration...... 18 Baker Suggested for Presidency.................... 32
PresieeOtie Set ooo vs craccutcirsicles -coneieaa 18 Eigelbach, ‘28, Wins Wiest) oc cre! (te ie 32

The Hon. John W. Davis..................... 19
Deatite xiii. hI da CE 33

Commissioner W. J. Cooper................ 21
' +r Mergers: iia. Laitnina.. au... cea Se 34

Chancellor J. H. Kirkland.................. 23
Maj.-Gen. J. A. Lejeume............00.-- 24 Dividends £2.36 %08: AGT AG I : Sa rir 35
Dr. , Johet jEie Siamley.....: i305... cae 25 Persorale) .ic.-246. ii ZBL TA 35

 

 

[1]

Cee. ae A -1L 48-2 N

I

M A G A 24 1t-=

Dr. Gaines Is Inaugurated President )

 

 

RANCIS PENDLETON GAINES became
president of Washington and Lee University
3) |October 25.

In historic Lee Chapel where four of his predeces-
sors have taken their oath of office, the 38-year-old
educator promised to discharge faithfully the duties of
president to the best of his skill and judgment with-
out fear or favor.

Gowned in the robes of a doctor of philosophy,
Doctor Gaines bowed before Valentine’s recumbent
statue of General Robert E. Lee and repeated in a
clear voice the words of the president’s oath, while rep-
resentatives of 140 American colleges and _ universi-
ties—forty of them also presidents—occupied pews in
the chapel built by the great Confederate leader when
head of the school after the War Between the States.

The oath of office was administered by George
Walker St. Clair, rector of the Washington and Lee
trustees, who also presided at the inauguration pro-
gram held in Doremus Gymnasium following the ad-
ministration of the oath. In the Chapel were only
those who marched in the colorful academic proces-
sion; the building will seat only 700 persons, and many
more than 1500 were here for the exercises. In the
procession, in order, were the senior class of Washing-

  

 

 

 

ton and Lee: President Gaines and Mr. St. Clair; Gov-
ernor John Garland Pollard of Virginia, President-

Emeritus Henry Louis Smith, and the speakers of
day ; the board of trustees ; delegates from other sche
and the University faculty. |

It was a full day, and many were the

nati
figures from all parts of the country. In additior
Governor Pollard, Representative Harry St. Gee
Tucker was present, as was Dr. Ray Lyman Wilh
secretary of the interior. Mingled with the cri
gold, blue, and white of academic hoods were the €
drab of the army and.the navy blue, as a sprinkling
officers from both branches of the service came
Lexington for the occasion. :
The morning’s program included addresses

John W. Davis, democratic candidate for the preside
in 1924, who represented Washington and Lee alu
Commissioner of Education William John Coog
Chancellor James H. Kirkland of Vanderbilt,
spoke for American universities; President Irank
Graham of the University of North Carolina,
Southern education; Maj.-Gen. John Archer Lejé
for sister schools of Virginia; and Dr. Gaines.

Two luncheons were held at noon. One for dele
speakers, and invited guests, was held in the Washi
ton and Lee dining hall; the other for alumni and ot
guests, was held in the Washington and Lee Christ
Activities room. Limited seating facilities made
two luncheons necessary,

y

 

 

mH &E A Sek. hs ee ee ee Me tA StS Re cs eee ee
——
Judge Charles J. McDermott, Washington and Lee was a demand for something more than the usual ideals

esided at the luncheon in the dining hall. The

-acipal speaker was Dr. John H. Finley, editor of
OF New York ‘Times. Following Doctor Finley’s ad-
a score or more scrolls were presented by repre-
sentatives of other schools, and greetings were brought
py Governor Pollard, Secretary Wilbur, Dr. Frederick
ison, president of the College of the City of
Dr. Fred C. Ferry, president of Hamilton
College; Dean J. C. Metcalf for the University of
Virginia; W- k. Perkins and Dr. George Bolling Lee
of New York, both alumni of the University; Presi-
dent-Emeritus Smith, and others.

trustee, pr

the
dress,

B. Robi
New York;

At 2:30 in the afternoon Washington and Lee and
St. John’s College met in football on Wilson field, and
at 8 P. M. the University gave a reception for the Pres-
‘dent and Mrs. Gaines in Carnegie Library. The re-
ception was followed by an informal dance given by the
Cotillion Club of Washington and Lee in Doremus
Gymnasium.

In his response to other addresses on the in-
auguration Presi-
dent Gaines disregarded dis-
cussion of policy an academic
plans for the future and spoke
of ideals. Defining the ideal
of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity as freedom from the
stand-

-

program.

modern tyrannies of

ardization and conformity, the administrator pled for
faith in the capacity of youth of today for strength,
loyal interests, and generous sympathies.

“The power of youth,” President Gaines declared,
“is still to reach beyond the monotony of instructions,
beyond the formulas of fact.” It is a power, he said,
“to reach beyond these and deposit in the life of the
boy something a little finer than culture, a little rarer
than competence, a little nobler than success.”

Doctor Gaines announced himself as opposed to
a too early specialization. He described Washington
and Lee as an institution that crystallizes the finest
Sentiments of the South, and contrasted the University
Of today with the University of the past to show that
the fundamental ideal of the University, intellectual
freedom, has remained a constant force.

The tone of Doctor Gaines’ address reflected that
of Virtually all of the speakers of the morning. From
John W. Davis through Commissioner Cooper, and
irom Presient Graham to General Lejeune, the theme

[3]

of higher education.

Speaking for the alumni, of the “past’’ as he chose
to call it, Mr. Davis stressed the greater importance
of “being” than of “doing” in the field of education.
“Catholic outlook on life,” he said, “is quite as needful
to make the truly educated man as training along so-
called ‘practical’ lines.”

Mr. Davis recalled the glorious past of the Univer-

sity and asked that it not be forgotten today.
He visioned a great future for Washing-
ton and Lee, declaring that the ne-
cessities of the University in
equipment and finance
will in no way
impair its

  
  
 
  
     
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

achieve-
nents and -use-
fulness. He cited

the University of

Heidelberg in Germany

as an example of a great
university that has succeeded
with no greater financial endowment
than Washington and Lee.

Speaking for the Colleges of Vir-
ginia, General Lejeune said:
“Because of the wide-spread influence exer-

cised by the University, interest in this event is not
confined to those who are present in the flesh...
Truly the University is national in its scope .. . and
one of the state’s most cherished institutions.

BR Y

“It is, therefore, very fitting that each should
grieve when the other grieves and rejoice when the
other rejoices,” the General said in commenting on the
close bond between Washington and Lee and V. M. L,,
Lexington’s sister institution of learning.

“I congratulate President Gaines on his elevation
to the high office of president of this university,” the
superintendent said, and continued, “I want to con-
gratulate the University, too, on the happy choice it
has made. I look forward to the coming years fully
confident that the high ideals of George Washington
and Robert E. Lee will be loyally maintained and that
the great esteem in which the University is now held
will be steadily increased under the able guidance and
the inspiring leadership of President Gaines.”

The responsibilities of the college president,
against whom the criticisms of the American college
are directed, was the theme of Chancellor Kirkland’s
address. A major task of the college president, he
said, is to prevent the American College of Liberal
said, is to prevent the American College of Liberal
the junior college and the professional school.

Recalling the address of appreciation he had de-

 

- : _ . ate ae
~ ee OER: POO Ts AEE rR. er ———— PREP Pes

livered at the inauguration of William L. Wilson as
president of Washington and Lee thirty-three years
ago, Chancellor Kirkland congratulated Doctor Gaines
on new opportunities to labor. “*Without the hind-
rance of immaturity and inexperience,” he said, “‘you
have the great advantage of youth and strength.”

Speaking for the government, Commissioner
Cooper urged the University “to follow its Saints,”
Washington and Lee, who, he said, best represented
the principle of reciprocation, of give and take, or
service in a materialistic society.

Commissioner Cooper described the average man
of education as a person torn between the motives of
egoism and altruism. “For the college of tomorrow,”
he declared, “I suggest a thoroughgoing study of so-
ciety, of the inividual, and of the relations nf one to
the other.”

President Frank Graham of the University of
North Carolina said in commenting on Doctor Gaines
inauguration, “Where North Carolina lost, Virginia
gained.” He was referring to President Gaines’ form-
er incumbency as head of Wake Forest.

A new note was heard at the luncheon when white-
haired President-Emeritus Henry Louis Smith came
to the defense of his successor and appealed to trustees
and alumni of Washington and Lee to lift the burden
of financing the institution from te shoulders of the
new administrator.

‘Let me direct my message today to the Board of
Trustees, to the Washington and I.ee alumni, and to
all citizens everywhere who honor [ee’s memory and
desire to propogate his ideals,” Dr. Smith said. “That

 

COOPER DAVIS

FINLEY WHITE

fa

 
 

x —

< ae ma - ee e ] - ' se Pe
cad t — o f 7

beam te ose eT Me OO ER oe on ge Ole

_ + Tor - wal ——, . Fo — a = ~ non ee ° Wee eS yn

   

z

message in one sentence is this: That to lay upon
heart and shoulders of the new president, in addit
to his educational duties, the personal task of finane
the institution is to confront him and his efforts

a stone wall.

“T therefore appeal to the trustees, to every li
alumnus, and to every friend of the institution not of
to back up the educational efforts of our new presid
with heartfelt and unanimous love and zeal and loys
but to lift from his shoulders and place on your ¢
the equally necessary and far more urgent task-
doubling the endowment and equipment of this sple
did inter-state creatur of national leadership thro
Lee idealism.”

Taking opinions of visitors, alumni, faculty,
students as a criterion, the inaugural. was an outst
ing success. From all sides came hearty approval
the work of the inauguration committee, headed
Dean Henry Donald Campbell. To Prof. Je
Graham must go a great deal of the credit for #
success of the day. The luncheon was supervised |
FE. S. Mattingly, Washington and Lee registrar. Tho
who were present can testify to its complete success.

The press of Virginia and neighboring states ¢&
ried comprehensive stories of the inaugural.

Although it is impossible to print the full text
all speeches and greetings given on Inauguration Dé
the Alumni Magazine does carry all the major address
with the exception of that of President Frank P. G
ham of the University of North Carolina. The te
of these addresses will be found beginning on Page
of this issue.

CARSON MC DERMOTT ST. CLAIR POL

 

mH & Ant 701M ON

————

I

mCPm SSA Ae ee

Has He a Hobby? Yes! Just Boys

A CHARACTER STUDY

N educator who believes this generation is
better than any other; mourns scarcity of time
to read, and listen.to good music; sits on the

     

bench at football games and goes home with a headache
‘f his team loses; who received part of his education
in an iron mine; and loves the small school because he
can know every student by his first name; is now presi-
Washington and

dent of

Lee.
This is Francis Pen-
Six years

os.
hy

dleton Gaines.
ago—inarried and with a
son five years old—he won
his doctorate at Columbia.
At 33, he became a college
president ; and now, not 39,
he begins at Washington
and ee an administration
the keynote of which is
friendship with students.

Doctor Gaines rested
in a large chair by the fire-
side in his president's home.
On the wall were portraits
of his three sons and Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee, the sol-
dier-educator, who years
ago as president of Wash-
ington College sat before
the same fireplace.

“Of course I think this
generation of young men
and women is better than
any other. ‘That’s why I’m _ ,,
>" ae ves ue Boys ARE
in the profession of educa-
tion. I’m a college president
because I’d rather work for and with boys
anything else.”

than do
The president scorned the idea that the younger
generation is going to the bow-wows, and vigorously
upheld extra-curricular. activities.

“I believe in this generation. The trouble with
us who are older is we forget boys and girls of today
are living in a different age from that of our youth.
They'll never be subjected to the discipline under which
their fathers and grandfathers grew up—and my notion
is they'll be just as good or better because of it.”

President Gaines puts belief into action.
schoo! opened, he asked the football coach to let him
sit on the player’s bench at games. He has accepted an

Before

~

THE GAINES FAMILY

invitation to preside at the first debate, and before the
month of September had passed he had visited the cam-
pus fraternity houses.

“T want to live just as close to the students as I can,
and I’m going to get into every activity in which they’ll
have me,” he said.

The young administrator reached for his pipe from
a table on which magazines
and books were piled. <A

(USM, LOR review of literature and
: es ‘a book review sections of sev-
eral newspapers were on

top.

 

PENDLETON, ROBERT AND EpwWIn, IN
ORDER OF SENIORITY

wi

“Is literature your hob-
by, Doctor ?”

“Well, I don’t know
whether I have a hobby,”
the Doctor puffed, “unless
it’s boys, my own three and
the nine hundred others
who also are mine. Yes,
[ guess it’s boys.”

The speaker grinned
infectiously and clasped a
knee in his hands.. He likes
to ‘“‘radio” and read books;
he once played bridge reg-
ularly, but lately he hasn’t
had time. Although he has
never made a golf hole in
one he can’t remember ever
going down in less than
three—he does break a hun-
dred regularly when he’s
playing.

And he stays up late
at night. It’s the only time he gets to read. An
ameteur collector of early American literature, he has
a small collection of works. He once collected books
about education and educators. He points with hum-
or to a number of books which “ought to make us see
ourselves in a different light.”

Doctor Gaines is the son of a Baptist minister
His father was 62 years old when the new president
There were three older brothers and three
older sisters. When the family baby came to stick-
horse age, the 70-year-old father cut two broom handles
and the two “boys” galloped their hickory steeds up
and down the road before the Gaines home.

Continued on Page 37

 

was born.

. we CE A? L ao Soa oN

Paper's Name Won't “Go Modern”

 

Se/ROBABLY nothing on the Washington and

'|Lee campus is of more enduring interest, or of

<— |more real importance to the alumni of the Uni-

versity than is the student semi-weekly newspaper, the
“Ring-tum Phi.”

Of course, all the old grads either know, or re-
member, how the name originated. The students used
a yell some years ago that ran like this: “Ring-tum-
phi, stick-er-ee, bum; we're hot stuff from Lex-ing-
ton!” Out of the first three syllables of this old fav-
orite the name of the newspaper was made, as it was
to be the voice of the student body; and so it has re-
mained throughout the years.

But some of the present-day students on the cam-
pus don’t know the story of this origin of the name,
Ring-tum Phi, and some of those who do, feel that as
present-day sentiment condemns the use of such a
yell, the name, too, is obsolete. At any rate, they
claim, it is rather meaningless, and possibly a more
appropriate name could be chosen.

In response to this sentiment, the editor, who
rather agreed with it, launched an editorial campaign
in the issue of September 30, with an editorial cap-
tioned, “Changing a Name.” “We believe the Ring-
tum Phi has outgrown its name and the time has come
when it means absolutely nothing,” the editorial said.
A statement of the origin of the present name was
given, and the question put thus: “But how to change
the name?” ‘The possibility of simply bringing the
paper out under a new name with the next issue was
thrown aside, and the statement made, that the “only
way it could be changed is by a vote of the student
body.”

“The Ring-tum Phi here asks the executive com-
mittee of the student body to pass a resolution chang-
ing the name of the paper, which name is to be select-
ed later, provided the majority of the student body
desires it,” the editorial continued.

“We think the alumni should be allowed to vote,
too.” It was suggested that a baliot be printed in the
paper and everyone taking the paper be allowed to
vote. “Of course, we expect opposition,” the editor-
ial stated, saying that most of this opposition would be
from alumni who would dissent for sentimental reasons.

“But because it is obsolete, outgrown, and doesn’t
mean a thing we ask that it be changed.” ‘This state-
ment concluded the first editorial, but in the next is-
sue, October 3, it was followed by another entitled,
“We Still Want It Changed.”

This article stated that much favorable comment
had been received on the project, and that some ad-
vised the change “without more ado,” but that this

 

 

 

 

I

[6 ]

   
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
     
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
   

MAGS A .Z A me

would not be considered, as those who didn’t like

would term the man responsible as “the one who gay
the paper ‘that lousy name.’ We think everyone ir
terested should have something to say about the name,

However the writer complained, “The executiy
committee ignored our last editorial—We'll just wa
and see if they do anything at their next meeting,
The request to the committee was then repeated.
statement was remade that to change the name arth
trarily would not be right, and the printing of a balle
again suggested, the editorial closing with the state
ment, ““We leave it rest until next Tuesday night.”

The October 7 issue printed no editorial but die
publish a long letter from one, “Alumnus,” opposin
the idea. The letter requested a “little space,”
said that at first the writer had thought the editori
of the thirtieth a “feeler,”’ but when the threat of ec
torial action, if the executive committee failed to
was made “it seems not inappropriate to call attentio
to certain well known facts.”

The alumnus reminded the editor that he
run for the “editorship of the Ring-tum Phi,” ane
asked if he were not attempting to destroy the publi
cation ‘“‘whose existence gave you office?” )
changing of the name he labeled as “arbitrary
without warrant.”

The letter stated that no hint had been given a
to what the change would be, and that no name choser
would carry significance “thirty-five years from now.
Personal names lost significance too, it was said, bu
no effort was made to change them. The unusua
quality of the name was defended by the statement
that many leading papers had such titles. The lette
said that probably many students did not know th
derivation of the names of the “Calyx” and “The Sou:
thern Collegian.” ‘The writer then questioned wha
good a change would do, stating that the readers we
interested in the contents of the paper, not its name

“The name Ring-tum Phi is distinctive, it
served a useful purpose for a third of century, it i
known and loved by thousands of alumni, and its re
curring issues awaited with pleasures. When ol¢
Washington and Lee is two hundred and fifty yea
older, may she still have a loyal and progressive anc
vigorous editor and may his chair be in the office 0
the Ring-tum Phi,” the letter closed.

Another letter even more emphatic in its cham-
pionship of the present name was received, but was
not printed, and in the issue of October 10, the fol
lowing editorial, headed, “We Concede,” closed the
campaign and the subject.

Continued on Page 38

 

  

——

Bill Raft:

I

M.A GA: Zr eee

Tough as Restaurant Steak, and Irish As They
Make ’Em, V. M. I. Coach, One of Washington

and Lee’s Successful Alumnt

 

—

 
  
 
  

INE OF the most prominent of Washington
‘and Lee’s many prominent alumni, at least
Ne from a Lexington point of view, is Wiliiam
c. Raitery, head coach at the Virginia Military Insti-
tute.

‘Bill’ Raftery came to Washington and Lee from
Yonkers, New York, his home, and from the Deane
Academy, in New England. While
4 student he was a forward on the
basketball team, played third base
en the baseball team, and was
quarter-back of the football eleven
in 1911-12, achieving fame as a
drop kicker. He was a member
of Phi Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity, Pi Alpha Nu, and Sigma
campus societies, and was one of
the Omicron Delta
Kappa, national fraternity for the
recognition of campus leadership.

founders of

Raftery was assistant foot-
hall coach of Washington and Lee
in 1913-14 and °15, and baseball
coach at V. M. I. in 1914 while
still at W.& L. In 1916 he jour-
neyed south to direct the athletic
destinies of the Chick Springs
Military Academy in South Caro-

lina, but returned to his alma
mater in 1917 as head coach.

This post he relinquished
to enlist in the United States
Navy in 1927, when he re-

ported to the Pelham Bay station
wd served as battalion comman-
der the Officer's Material
School from February, 1918. The
tormer Washington and Lee men-
tor was discharged from active

of

duty in December, 1918, and immediately returned to
Lexington to resume his duties as head coach.

_ Coach “Bill” Raftery was rewarded for his ef-
torts by some very successful teams during his stay at
Washington and Lee from 1919 to 1921, his greatest
success probably being that achieved when the Gen-
erals football team won the championship of the South-
rn Conference in 1919,

_ The Washington and Lee alumnus transferred
his activities to the neighboring institution of V. M. I.
m 1922 as head coach of baseball and basketball, and

4ssistant coach of football. In 1925 he was made

 

[7]

head coach of athletics, the position he holds today.
Success has also followed him to the Institute, where
he has had two state championship football teams.
“Bill Raff” or just “Raff” as he is affectionately
known around Lexington, is one of the figures of the
town. In the summer he brings out a set of golf clubs
and tackles most of the good courses and all of the
poor ones within a radius of a
hundred miles. Although not the
best golfer in the world, he is one
of the leading exponents of form,
and every day during his vacation
he can be found spending a cer-
tain amount of time perfecting

his game with one or another
clubs.
Outside of college “Raff”

achieved no small fame as a cox-
swain. One of his favorite stories
—unbelieveable but true neverthe-
less—is of the time he piloted a
crew in a national race when per-
sons financially interested in his
losing the race peppered the Rat-
tery crew from the sidelines with
buckshot.

In this particular instance,
the three volleys from a concealed
shotgun wounded every member
of the crew except the coxswain
and almost sank the shell. It was
only by continued rowing that the
craft was kept above water, and
when the crew did cross the finish
line—winners—the frail _ shell
sank below the surface of the river
as the wounded were pulled from
their places.

In football, Raftery has a
manner of coaching which causes his teams to point for

certain games and take the rest of the season more or
less as a matter of routine. The V. M. I. tutor evi-

dently believes it is impossible to key a team up for
every game, so he selects the ones he most wants to win
and works his men up to those games.

Small of statue, tough as a restaurant steak, and
[Irish as they make ‘em, “Raff” is a lovable character,
to the boys he coaches and to those he meets in other
walks of life. In him, Washington and Lee has a
loyal alumnus of which the University can justly be
proud,

| aes yee: A. dh: ec Bee

J. H. Dillard, ’77, Praised by Negro

By O. W. RIEGEL

mm |'T IS significant that the first long biography of
i] Dr. James Hardy Dillard, a former student

and teacher at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, should be written by a member of the race for the
betterment of which Doctor Dillard has given so much
of his time and energy. In general scope and tone, Pro-
fessor Brawley’s book seems to be an expression of the
collective appreciation and admiration of intelligent
Negroes for the work Doctor Dillard has done in behalf
of the Negro race.

Benjamin Brawley, clergyman and teacher of wide
experience, the author of several books on the prob-
lems of the Negro, and now Professor of English at
Shaw University, Raleigh, North Carolina, is pecu-
liarly fitted to appraise the value of Doctor Dillard’s
work from the Negro’s point of view. The picture
of the racial problem of the South presented in the
first chapter is notable for its fairness. The account
of Doctor Dillard’s heritage and youth admirably sus-
tains Mr. Brawley’s thesis that Doctor Dillard’s patri-
cian origins, coupled with a humanistic education, pre-
pared him for the extremely difficult task of further-
ing some sort of inter-racial adjustment.

A chapter is devoted to the history of Washington
and Lee University and Doctor Dillard’s relations with
it. He entered the University in 1873, became a Mas-
ter of Arts in 1876, and Bachelor of Laws in 1877.
During his last year in the University he was also assist-
ant professor of mathematics. ‘The degree of Docior
of Letters was conferred upon him by the University

in 1889.

 
  
 

career as a teacher, text book writer, and enlightened
public servant is introductory to his even more im-
portant work as administrator of the Jeanes Founda-
tion and of the Slater Fund. ‘These two foundations,
created by original bequests of well over $2,000,000
and considerably more wealthy at the present time, are
dedicated to the education of the Southern Negro, par-
ticularly in the more isolated and populous rural dis-
tricts.

Doctor Dillard became director of the Jeanes
Foundation of 1908 and of the Slater Fund in 1917.
The heart of Professor Brawley’s book is the inspiring
even romantic, story of the progress of Negro educa-
tion under Doctor Dillard’s administration of the two
funds. Not only has the Jeanes teacher become the
welcome apostle of cleaner, better and happier living in
every state in the South, but Doctor Dillard himself,
by virtue of his work as an educator of the white man
in his relations toward the Negro, has become a symbol

mm Ro oe a oe ee

  
    
  
  
 
 
 
  

of a new era of inter-racial understanding and coop-
eration. .

Professor Brawley admits that the new day |
only begun to dawn. He makes the point, however, that
only a man of Doctor Dillard’s capacity could have
smoothed the difficult way for progress. Doctor Dil-
lard not only has to revise the opinion of one race to-
ward the other. He had to enlist the cooperation of
the national government, the state governments, the
local governments, and the hundreds and thousands of
educational workers. ‘The increased educational facil-_
ities of the Negro in public schools and colleges and >
the increased public appropriations for Negro educa-
tion in every state in the South are all memorials to”
Doctor Dillard’s tact and judgment. 3

The biography has a special interest because it
contains copious extracts from Doctor Dillard’s own
writings. A particularly vivid piece of writing is Doc-—
tor Dillard’s description of his early education at Wil-_
liam R. Galt’s school at Norfolk. Other extracts bring
out Doctor Dillard’s sound scholarship, his emphasis
upon essentials in education, and his humane and for-—
ward-looking educational statesmanship. His ‘“Consid-
erations on Race Adjustments in the South” is one of —
the finest and most just treatments of that subject in—
print. |

One misses in Professor Brawley’s book, however, —
an objective criticism of the progress of Negro educa- —
tion. ‘The author has written an econium, and the bio- —
graphy is saturated with Doctor Dillard’s splendid per-_
sonality. On the other hand, it is probable that the—
need was so great that a more scientific appraisal would —
miss the point of Doctor Dillard’s tremendous impor-
tance as a pioneer. As it stands, Professor Brawley’s
book is a genuine and affecting tribute that is bound
to move the reader to admiration for the leader who is 7
capable of arousing such a profound sentiment in a_
representative Negro.

The introduction, by Anson Phelps Stokes, Canon
of Washington Cathedral, serves to orientate Doctor
Dillard’s work in general social progress, and is a per-
sonal tribute as well.

_,

LEXINGTON AVIATOR

The first privately owned airplane has made its
appearance in Lexington—shades of William Graham
and the Reverend Baxter!

The plane is an American-made bi-plane, called
an Arrow Sport, and contains a French engine. It is
the property of M. Francis de Montaigu, of the V. M.
I. faculty.

-

ae
as

youn Prone: © Foams Oe

ee GS. A ee

Success Following “Tex” and “Eddie”

By GEORGE F. ASHWORTH ’30

HEN “Jimmy” DeHart left Washington and

I.ee to accept a position as head football coach

Nat Duke University, two of the University’s

most outstanding athletes went with him to assist in

yarious phases Ol coaching. ‘These two men were Ed-

mund McCullough Cameron and Warren Edward
mlson ; “Eddie” and “Tex.”

In school they cut wide swathes through the ath-
letic hopes of the Gen-
eral’s rivals during the
frst half of the last
decade. All alumni
of that time remem-
her “Tex” and “Ed-
die” and what they did
here. Perhaps it's
not amiss to jog the
memories of these
alumni and perhaps
add to the store of
knowledge of those
who preceded and
succeed them.

-1ex” was a
member of the Lam-
bda Chi Alpha social
fraternity, and Omi-
cron Delta Kappa,
Phi Delta Phi, and White Friar. He was also a
member of the monogram club during his second,
third, fourth and fifth years in college, and president
of it during his fourth. He played freshman foot-
ball and graduated right into the Varsity his second
year. Here he stayed, despite the efforts of oppos-
ing tackles to put him out of the way, for four years,
being captain of the “Fighting Generals” during his
fourth year in school.

On the gridiron “Tex’’ distinguished himself all
right, but he didn’t stop there. He boxed for two
years, his second and third, then switched over to
Wrestling his fourth and fifth, and led the team his
fifth. This didn’t take quite all of his time so he held
down several administrative and executive positions of
Mportance, being on the freshman council for three
years, the athletic council for two, and president of the
athletic council. He capped everything off by being
President of the student body his last year here. Just

about as full a record as any one man ever had, don't
you think ?

 

“TEx” ‘TILSON

: When he went to Duke, “Tex” became varsity
aa ;
N€ coach under DeHart, and head coach of boxing
al ’'raA> a . . .

id Wrestling. He’s had considerable success with all

FORMER GENERALS ON DUKE COACHING STAFF

his teams, especially in wrestling.

“Eddie” Cameron had a record anyone could be
proud of, too. He joined Phi Kappa Psi, Omicron
Delta Kappa, Alpha Kappa Psi, the Cotillion Club
the “11” Club, an Pi Alpha Nu. He achieved fame
as one of Washington and Lee’s greatest “plunging
fullbacks,” and the Generals had several a few years
ago. He played football during ’21, ’22, °23, and cap-
tained the team in
23. But this wasn’t
enough for “Eddie,”
so he chalked up: the
same record in bas-
ketball, being captain
in °24, during the
same school year he
led the Big Blue on
the gridiron.

After leading
teams, the _ boys
thought “Eddie”
should have had
enough experience to
qualify him as _ pres-
ident of the Mono-
C i gram Club, the fresh-

“Eppre”’ CAMERON man council, and as

vice-president of the

 

t
7
‘

Athletic Council for two years.

He coached a year at Washington and Lee before
he left for Duke, basketball occupying his time and
talents. At Duke he was head Freshman coach, and
Varsity basketball coach. For the last two years his
team has been the runner-up in the Southern Confer-
ence tournament in Atlanta. That’s enough recom-
mendation for any basketball coach.

Neither “Eddie” nor “Tex” shows any signs of
letting up. We wish them both all the luck in the
world—Here’s to you “Tex” and “Eddie”!

Ly
Vw

H. Gray Funkhouser, ’21, Associate Professor of
Math. at Washington and Lee, now on leave of ab-
sence, has an article in the American Math Monthly
Aug.-Sept., entitled, “A short account of the History
of Symmetric Functions of Roots and Equations.” Mr.
Funkhouser is now working at Columbia University,
N. Y., towards his Ph.D.

R. F. Garcia, °12, is Western Manager for the
J. B. McCrary Engineering Corporation of Atlanta,
Ga., with offices in the Praetorian Building, Dallas,
Texas.

|? |

Te 342 E Ai Livi ees

  

M A G A Z. ila

 

On the Highway

 
 
  
 

Being a Resume of the A i
ties of the Alumni Secreta
During the Summer of 1930

 

By HARRY K. CY") YOUNG

MMEDIATELY after Washington and Lee’s
i 1930 Finals the University saw fit to send me

forth on an eight thousand mile journey to
make contracts with alumni as well as interview pros-
pective students. The vehicle was a new Ford of
dazzling lustre, which returne with the newness taken
off by the blistering sun, which somewhat detracted
from a perfect trip through the South.

The sun was the only draw-back, for the alumni
rallied to my support and treated me as I had never
dreamed a “traveling salesman” could be treated. My
wares, “Washington and Lee past and present,’ were
favorably received and I am firmly convinced that no
other school has a more loyal backing.

Towns vied with cities in opening every possible
avenue of approach to worthwhile W. and L,. timber,
proving that alumni are ready, to a man, to sponsor
every interest of our beloved University. In mention-
ing the cities and a few of the old men who cordially
received me, and gave of their time and talents, I want
to beg forgiveness of those unmentioned. ‘Time and
space forbid my making a more exhaustive report. I
remember and appreciate every courtesy and every
cross-road conversation. Realizing that your interest
in my tour evinced an interest in your school, Wash-
ington and Lee, | thank you from the bottom of my
heart—“‘men on the far flung battle line.” I realize
that I can only do what you see fit to help me do. You
made a splendid beginning this summer.

First I went over the state of Virginia, visiting
the towns that are so near and yet so far. For a dis-
tance of ten miles is greater than one of a thousand
if that ten miles is not traversed in returning to W..&
L,. and the one of a thousand is covered every year by
a pilgrimage to the Alma Mater. Men Come Back!
Surely Virginia men have no excuse. Richmond is a
city I must mention, for the Capitol of the Old Do-
minion is a good starting point.

The state has for many years, had hundreds of
W. and L. men prominently identified with official
life. Did you know that the following men are help-
ing hold some of the reins of state? Lieut. Gov. James
H. Price; Judge Peery of the State Corporation Com-
mission; C. H. Morrisett, State Tax Commissioner,
“Pete” Saunders, Executive Secretary, and others too
numerous to mention. When men leave this school
they usually lead, it makes no difference what state
they live in. Richmond has in its Alumni organiza-
tion Dr. A. A. Houser, C. H. Morrisette, Dr. Morri-

  

| 10 |

  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  

son Hutcheson, “Mike” Kidd, Dr. Dick Fowlkes, ¢
to Stumpf, and Joe Burnie, as well as fifty or Six
other enthusiastic members.

North Carolina gives W. and L. excellent st
port for a state which can boast of a number of
universities. I want to mention Guy Laughn
Larry Wilson, of Greensboro, and Dr. Will Allan,
Charlotte, as three outstanding helps, during my
Heel sojourn.

South Carolina was visited and although I do n
recall many names of the cordial supporters I kno
that Fanning Hearon, of Spartansburg, is to be reli
upon when he is approached.

Atlanta, Georgia, an old time favorite of
proved to be no less attractive than in former year
Here is a city I could easily live in. It embodies
that is necessary to make up an ideal location for
southern home. Bill Ward and “Smack Garlingte
added to my estimation of Atlanta's hospitality.

In Jacksonville, Florida, I think of Fred Vs:
Herman Ulmer, Rhydon Latham and Manty Myerse
The sun beat down rather forcefully here, but the
sponse I met with in this city as well as in Pensace
helped me_to forget the heat. Ralph McLane am
Churchill Mellon, of Pensacola, are interested spe
tators to the happenings of the old school.

Tom Taylor, of Mobile; Sam Englehart and Jir
Flowers, of Montgomery initiated me into Alabam:
cordiality. They are three noteworthy forerunne
Birmingham, the home of Mark Hanna, Walter Hoc
Courtney (“Cot”) Henley, “Mac” McCrum and Chz
mers Moore—the real football fans who follow
Generals with a 100 per cent interest—gave me
thrill, for I do not dislike football. And how mam
“affairs of state” we settled in Birmingham! In this
city I found that I was growing so old that my teetl
should come out, hence I eridured much pain from fi
extractions. I have one thing to suggest, go to Bir
mingham for here you will find the most expert den
tal attention as well as marked solicitations from your
old school friends. I recommend Birmingham highly

Next I crossed Mississippi in a hurried run te
Arkansas and Tennessee. Mike Seligman and Dency
Kilner gave me a hand shake I liked to receive. Whe
the opportunity presents itself I hope to spend more
time within the confines of the Magnolia state.

Helena, Ark., my home for ten years, has a tre-
mendous number of W. and L. men. Grandfathers

Continued on Page 37

 

MAG OA 2 od ee

 

 

 

By A. J. L.

SOOTBALL at Washington and Lee is
|, fifty-fifty proposition in more ways
iy than one. As the Generals prepare
for the eighth game of the schedule, that with
the University of Maryland Old Liners, the
1930 record stands at three wins, three losses,
and a tie. Randolph-Macon, Hampden Sid-
ney, and Richmond, fell before the Generals,
while West Virginia and Kentucky spurted in
the closing minutes to win, and St. Johns
caught the big blue team in an off afternoon,
towin 7-0. V. P. I. an the Generals met on
Wilson field for Washington and Lee's Home-
coming feature, and battled through four gruel-
ling periods to a 0-0 tie.

Coach Eugene Oberst issued his first call
at the end of August, and a large squad of fifty
candidates reported to him as drills began on
Labor Day afternoon. Fourteen letter men,
a promising lot of sophomores, and a good lot
of reserve men from preceding years gave
grounds to the rumors that Washington and
Lee was the dark horse of the Conference.
Those intimately connected with the situation

 
   

 

 

 

here knew at once that what Washington and
Lee would do this year depended entirely on
the reserve material plus the unhampered play
of the regulars.

All the enthusiasm, coming from outside sources
centered directly around the backbone of the team,

“Monk” Mattox,
Leesville, Va.;
Leigh Williams,

Norfolk, Va.; Mor-
ton Thibodeau,
Waterville, Me.;
and Captain Page
Bledsoe, Sykesville,
Md.

The training
season wasn't many
days old, before the
grim spectre of in-
jured reserves came
to the front as
three men were lost
to the squad with-

 

Pat Mitchell, fullback

 

Leigh Williams, end

ina few daystime. Bob Morris, reserve guard; Hugh
‘Taylor, reserve tackle ; and Emil Steves, fullback candi-
date were forced out of the season because of serious
injuries. Morris and Taylor were operated on. Morris
for Appendicitis, and Taylor for an intestinal rupture.

Despite the scores of comment, Washington and
Lee won its three starts from Randolph-Macon,
Hampden-Sidney and Richmond as it pleased. The
Randolph-Macon Jackets were brushed aside, 32-0, as
Thibodeau, Williams, Harris, Bev Smith, and Mitch-
ell scored, and Mitchell converted. The dust at Lynch-
burg was the chief opposition in the Hampden-Sidney
game, and the Generals tallied 15 points while blank-
ing the Tigers. Mattox went over twice, one run be-
ing a 63 yard slice off tackle behind screening inter-
ference. Martin got credit for a safety on a bad pass
from the Tiger’s center in their own territory.

Richmond was the stiffest opponent of the three
Virginia schools played, but Washington and Lee
pushed Martin and Mattox over and Mitchell kicked

[a i

A oO. Mi. a Oo

both points. None
of the three seas-
oning games really
tested the mettle of
the Washington
and Lee team, and
it was not until the
West Virginia
game that the fans
had a real oppor-
tunity of watching
the Generals drive.
Fifteen thous-
and surprised fans,
who packed every
inch of available
space on Laidley
field, Charleston,
West Va., came to
their feet howling,
as Washington and
Lee on the first
play of the game
opened its bag of
tricks, and Mattox
shot a forty yard
pass to Williams to
send the ball deep
into Mountaineer
territory, where
after a few plays,
another pass, Mattox to Williams, sent the General’s
stellar end over the line for a score. Mitchell kicked
the point, and for rest of the half, until the last few
minutes, Washington and Lee’s defense held and thrust
back every West Virginia advance. In the last minutes
of the half, a series of line bucks, and end runs brought
the ball into the Generals ground, and a first down on
the eight yard strip. Three downs advanced the ball
little, but Dotson found a hole and went over by inches.
Parriot missed the goal and the Generals led, 7-6.

 

 

Faulkner, tackle

Doyle entered the game for West Virginia and
ran hog wild in the second half, reeling off run after
run, passing, kicking, and, in short, started the Moun-
taineer machine to rolling. Two touchdowns were
quickly scored, and the Generals trailed, 19-7. “Monk”
Mattox then wrote the first chapter of an epic in game-
ness, when despite a nasty gash over his left eye that
made playing difficult, he bucked the line savagely,
was hurtled to the ground by the big Mountaineer
line, but refused to stay down, and came back for
more, until he had severed the West Virginia forwards
for a touchdown that made the score, 19-13.

It was anybody’s game as the third quarter end-
ed, but Mattox couldn’t hold out any longer. Though
he had absorbed punishment enough for any two play-

[ 12 ]

I

    
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  

N-
ers, he still grimly hung on, leading his mates ag
the odds of weight and fresh reserves. Another
ious tackle set his cut to bleeding again, and ¥
was forced out. With his going went Washin
and Lee’s spirit, for West Virginia in the next
minutes rolled up two more touchdowns, and the g
ended at 33-13. As Mattox left the field, howe
both stands gave him a great ovation. |

Williams was everywhere in that game, cor
from nowhere and snagging passes, when two ;
would be covering him; but the rest of the attack
not function, and the defense crumbled at a
moment. The Generals demonstrated that they ¢
score against a powerful team, and gave hint of
veloping power in the line play. |

Washington and Lee inaugurated its Soutl
Conference schedule at Lexington, Ky., where
tucky was badly frightened by a lighter, but ¢
team, that pulled the claws from the Wildcat
and rushed back in the third quarter to knot the s¢
at 14-14, after the Wildcats had enjoyed a 14-0
at half time. Mattox and Thibodeau scored,
Mitchell converted. The West Virginia story
peated in the last
quarter against Ken-
tucky. Mattox wrote
his second chapter on
gameness, plunging
and twisting through
a Kentucky line aver-
aging over 200 pounds
aman, for a touch-
down ; and putting the
ball in position for
gains at important
times. The severe
beating he took in the
West Virginia game
was duplicated by the
heavy Kentuckians,
and when he was tak-
en out, spirit and scor-
ine strength oozed out
of the team. Williams
was covered by the
Kentucky forwards, —
who knew of his abil-
itv in pass catching,
and the Generals had
to resort to line foot-
ball. “Shipwreck”
Kelly. who had been $&
subdued most of the
afternoon, broke loose
in the last period. He
ran the ends ragged, SS gana ante Renae
stopping occasionally

we, Ue OS OA oe Se

 

 

 

 

“NIonk”™ Mattox, halfback

 

to bang off tackle, and in twelve minutes Harry Gam-
age’s Wildcats had scored nineteen points.

While their strength held out, Washington and
Lee fought the touted Kentuckians, whom many be-
lieve to be a possibility for Conference honors, on even
terms, and gave as good as they received.

[n a complete reversal of form, the Generals look-
ing sluggish and weak, could do nothing with St. Johns
on Wilson field on October 25, and went down 7-0.
Everything that Washington and Lee was supposed to
have, a scoring offensive, a deadly passing attack, and a
sturdy defense shrivelled up before the attack of the
Johnnies, who came with a decisive off-tackle slant
that gained plenty of ground, and an aerial charge that
scored the winning touchdown. Seemingly it was not
the same line that so valiantly fought off the heavier
West Virginia and Kentucky forwards. With the ex-
ception of Tilson and Bailey, the line had to rely upon
the secondary defense to stop the Johnny runners.

The psychological effect of losing to a weaker
team worked its magic upon the Generals for on the
lollowing week, the Gobblers, given the shade in the
pre-game picking were fought on even terms through-

 

Nace Collins, fullback

 

 
   

Jerry Holstein, guard

out to a scoreless tie before a Homecoming day crowd.
V. P. I. failed to capitalize on its four chances to score,
while the Generals could come no closer to a score than
the one foot line. Defensive play of both teams far
overshadows any attempts to score. Despite the severe
battering, substitutions in the line were few, and the
Generals held up well.

Washington and Lee’s fifty-fifty season has an
angle to it that may develop into a State title. Vir-
ginia practically eliminated V. M. I. from the running
by a 13-0 defeat. V. P. I. plays Virginia on Novem-
ber 8, and on November 15, the Generals face the tra-
itional rivals, the Virginia Cavaliers. VV. P. I.’s defeat
of Virginia would give the Generals an opportunity to
go into a tie for the title, provided that Virginia is
stopped at Charlottesville. If Tech fails to solve the
V. M. I. jinx, Washington and Lee, by percentage fig-
ures will head the heap. Then again, the loss to Vir-
ginia will eliminate all possibilities, while a win, will
give the big blue either a tie or the title.

The situation is better than it was last year. It
is the second year of the Notre Dame shift, modified
to suit Washington and Lee’s needs, and the men are

[ 13 ]

At L AU ep uN

I

  

M‘iTA (GAA Zl Se

 

working well with it.
The fact that the Gen-
erals have a good first
team is similar to the
situation last year but
this year’s reserves are
of better calibre. In
addition, a different
feeling pervades the
Washington and Lee
=. football camp. Instead
feof pessimism, there
eeeexudes a feeling of
= confidence, and a grim
determination to do
something this year;
all of which will be
decided by the next
few games to be

 

played.

Nace Collins,
sophomore fullback,
Covington, Va., is go-
ing great, and al-

though he was kept
out of the Kentucky
game with a cracked
rib, is expected to see
action soon. Johnny
> Schuchart, York, Pa.,
reserve quarterback,
has been seeing plenty
of action and is doing
* well at the post. The
play of Jerry Hol-
stein, and of Johnny
Faulkner, converted
backfield man, in the
line, has been steadily
improving, and was a
bright spot of the
Washington and Lee
play at Kentucky. The
plav of the veterans,
Captain Page Bled-
soe, Leigh Williams,
Frank Bailey, Tex
Tilson, Herb Groop,
Pat Mitchell, Gene
Martin, and A. C.
“Red” Jones has been
of the first class. In
addition, such reserves
as Ed Nesbit, Dallas,
Tex., and Sam Cowin,
Richmond, Va., Alan
Wofford, Johnson

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 

   

Herb Groop,

BR ON

center

Martin, quarterback

[ 14 ]

   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 

City, Tenn., and Ed Bacon, Charleston, West Va., ha
filled in nicely in emergencies.

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL

Despite their slow start, which gave grounds ¢
rumors that their strength had been over-estimated, th
1930 edition of the Little Generals, under the tutelag
of Coach Harry K. “Cy” Young, approached the zenit
of their power on Homecoming Eve, October 31, by ¢
artistic drubbing administered to the Little Cavalier
from Charlottesville, 25-0.

A 0-0 tie with William and Mary in the season
opener, where the greenness of unfamiliarity with th
modified Notre Dame shift was predominant, was fol
lowed by a heartbreaking 6-7 loss to Bluefield College
at Bluefield, W. Va., on October 10.

In the Virginia game, Joey Sawyers, former QOal
Hill, West Va., high school star, proved a scintillatir
figure, by his long dashes, and his two scores, one a 55.
yard run-back of a Virginia punt. Bill Faulk, Me
roe, La., at fullback, dived headlong when no holes ap
peared and gained substantial yardage. Billy Wilsor
at quarter was impressive. Frank Almon, Pensaco
Fla., although injured st
was put into the game BE
to snatch a Virginia pe
pass and speed thirty- Toes
five yards goalward.
In the line, Tom Bo-
land, Charleston, W.
Va., and Hanley and

  
  

Ficholtz, | Washing-
ton, D. C., served
notice that they

would be ready for
Varsity places in
1931. Assisting
Coach Young is D. S.
“Hoss” Hostetter, a
former star Generals
tackle, who is doing
well at his initial
coaching task. The
Little Generals have
yet to meet Mary-
land, there, Nov. 7,
and. V. P. I., there,
November 14.

After being held
at bay for three quart-
ers, the Little Gener-
als unleased a pass- #
ing attack late in the g:
last period to eke out &
a 6-0 win over the #
Maryland yearlings.

 

   

  

eK Ree

Page Bledsoe, end

 

Captain

  

—— lt

MiAeG A 22? Pee se

Record Enrollment at W. & L. This You

N ALL-TIME enrollment record of nine hun-
‘dred and fifteen men from 39 states, three
‘|foreign countries, and the Canal Zone, have
matriculated in Washington and Lee for the session of

1930-31.

Virginia still maintains a larger representation
than any other state with 184. New York is next with
76, followed by Pennsylvania with 58. West Virginia,
New Jersey, and Texas are next in line.

   

As this statement would indicate, the northern
and western states are rapidly overtaking the southern
in numbers of students on the Washington and Lee
campus. However, they have not yet done it as one
might suppose from a perusal of the list of states above.
Of the 915 students, five are from foreign countries,
and of the remaining 910, 513 are from the states be-
low the Mason and Dixon line, while the north and
west together claim only 397.

Classified roughly by sections the 915 would dis-
tribute themselves something like this: South, 513;
East, 266; Mid-West, 98; West, 33. Therefore a little
over half of the students are Southerners and their
section sends nearly twice as many students to Wash-
ington and Lee as any other one section.

New men will possibly have a chance to enter the
University at the beginning of the second semester
this year, Dr. Henry Donald Campbell says. This
mid-year entrance is made possible by the changes in
the curriculum which went into effect at the start of the
1929-30 session, and because of the men who will quite
possibly complete their work or be dropped from the
rolls for other reasons at this time.

‘Under the new curriculum which went into effect
September 1929 it is possible for freshmen to enter
the University to advantage at the beginning of the
second semester in February,’ Dr. Campbell believes.

“This gives an opportunity to applicants for ad-
mission who will graduate from high school in the
middle of the session to begin their college course at
once, with a possibility of graduating in February of
their fourth year.”

The College claims 515 of the 915 men, the Com-
merce School coming next with 213, Law next with
98, and 89 choosing science.

rr ; .
here are 597 old men and 318 new men, includ-
ing 261 freshmen, nine new lawyers, and 48 transfers.

The applicants for degrees are divided as follows:
Five M. A., 27 LL. B., 82 A. B., 13 B. S. in Science,
and 52 B, S. in Commerce.

A complete classification of students by residence
follows:

Pahari iGO Ook BBG ae ee eee 27
Avledaiestie 33.3. 5030056, ARR a Zee 29
Chi Goiemie ik 2 RS 2G 2
COM GPGMG | OIA 282 21S ES Bae Cole Ok Oe 4
Conitrertiettt 3°55 20002, DEN oy Fe 5 a oi 13
Diawate® 0226255 ase Be Raced tice eee 1
District ot Célombid. | 464i, Bei a Ree 16
Flora t003 60.7212: BEE a Fh 29
GOUEIIR iio ie, ce ace ee A Re ES ae 19
TihienhS ih cices,.......... ae es Sia A 22
OR ica cide ec cooconeeacdtetiR nc rete teactirastiventece cba ean 6
I ocd sins .0050000000cccts ute sce eee ota tea ba ) i teadhcam 1
FR CRIE I CNEG ais... 00.0000: MRA Ean aie ad eda samen 38
LjOUnSIATIA ..........0.00... cee SEs IO ee Stet 13
PROBS Sick: .....00c0cecccccccccscccceunscouebeaeduh sees as cece cobabincuatancstat 1
ET UNIIG | .....ascccsssecee desist hee Ema tn ab teaoasd one dice Pees call 30
Massachusetts .........0¢50..5cdsd en aia ct See 11
PUUACTIMIPGDD, © .....00..ssccccsascechedveth|kahdaatesst> <<) hcacan ae nna 12
PRARGINGIONN « ..;...0...02s00.00scessn bahia iee a edocs unset cae een 15
MBG OUES onic chen sce cc sncncnccc2cdhdectbbaba tecbtatocenbessecsahapschaheananaal 24
PMURATID, oon ccccsvecaccadeocc:cadsccvecslocbbipensbethoncabbasis. ctlammaanne 1
TI iis Sovvsesdncscecubessbesucd en «.idsdnkew Se 1
ID oss csicccses Joscku eso Bapaetet dat hdgenessscccneeanenaaa 51
DAME IO «coc ecvivcnscdcccdceiiekascacudtceeabecl biked odsvs teense 2
icc ocdbdtbabesntcchasl st ccskuccss cehuisc. 2 Samana 76
PGES TF MIINOIEA, . .......-onsedode se oacdch ees: ccdllsces uss cua 27
eka sso snc co oo Rts sn st cs Glcces vin bombeaancssokc een 29
NN i 5, ck) Fealclcctin costed vaeevad agen eee eAaaN 21
CN als osc 5 adahy as adios ssiss oo cce cect cegnseee nena 2
PEST INT isso SIE... SRS 58
PRR RN ions kek gs de chveac’ fvcabdedns tectantiieendbieaae 1
Sot CarGins ......:... 2 Ra ee 14
TORO ROOS oii. 60 ccekics cesses Sel. aaa ad Rte 29
Tees SS i BEL REE alas Sheet at 42
Verntint 151.250.8022. Se 3
VERRALL a Ged ta igs Sts Seen 184
Weashtitiitom’ 26.56: 00 COT, Re, 2s 1
West Witginla 35.8002... ae eae 52
WrrGinia 6.058. 6058.. OS A ae, 3
Brezit 5.6625i..60.) chee Ae 1
Catwl Zane ...86b aR eee 1
Ching ei eae oe se, seed 2
Cope skied Mas. Rae ae 1

 

It is estimated that colleges have developed 18,642
superior gentlemen who are now supported by dads
who quit at the seventh grade——Publishers’ Syndicate.

fy
VV

‘Frank B. Leverette, ’28, is manager of the Saun-
ders Motor Co., Inc., Jake City, Fla.

[ 15 |

a ano 8

ADIO’S acquisition of Edward Peyton Harris
ir —or George Edward Harris as he was called

while attending Washington and Lee, was one
of those unpremediated things we can only signify as
“luck.” Harris walked into the studios of the Radio
Home-Makers Club in New York one day about a year
ago to look for a job acting before the microphone to
tide him over until Broadway had something more aus-
picious to offer. He was granted an audience. His voice
“clicked” and the job was his. He took part regularly
in the daily program until it was discovered that he
was really a playwright.

Immediately he was set to
writing comedies of cooking and
budgeting of decorating and en-
tertaining. In a short time he be-
came the head of the Home-
Makers continuity department.

When, one day, Columbia
University wanted some one to
lecture on radio writing, “Ted”
Harris was suggested. He ac-
cepted and since that time has been
in great demand by Universities
all over the East. Thus, he be-
came the pioneer instructor in an
entirely new branch of dramatic
writing. Now he divides his time
between directing the continuity
staff of the Radio Home-Makers
Club and teaching graduate stu-
dents the art.

Graduating from his high
school in Greenville, N. C., with
the highest honors ever awarded ®
up to that time, he entered Wash-
ington and Lee in 1919, helped found the “Mink” and
started “Pettyplayers.” All this extra-curriculum ac-
tivity in no way interfered with his scholarly achieve-
ments. He won three scholarships; was assistant in
the English department and French instructor during
his senior year, and on graduating with an average of
94 for the four years was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
On a University scholarship to Harvard he received
his Master of Arts degree in English, finishing the
usual two-year course in one year.

Then followed a year at Brown University, in
Providence, Rhode Island, as an instructor in the Eng-
lish Department, and another year at Yale doing some
teaching and completing the famous Baker Workshop
Course in Dramatics.

Thus equipped, the young Southerner arrived: in
New York. The same day he went out on Broadway

 

[ 16 ]

Ae De A ee

Harris Fell Into Job By Luck

 

   
   
    
  
     
    
 
 
 
  

Mm: Qi So ma we ae

with several manuscripts under his arm and cailed on
Augustin Duncan, producer brother of the famou
Isadora. ‘Then and there he sold his first play, “N
Hidin’ Place,” which, however, has not yet been pro.
duced. Since then he has written and sold severa
novels and plays. a

In the few months that have passed since he first
faced the “mike” he has written numerous short
sketches for radio and acted in many of them. He
lectured several times before graduate students and
teaches radio writing in the only school of broadcast:
ing in existence. He adapted the Coburn produc.
tions for the air and was Mr. and
Mrs. Coburn’s entire supporting
cast in their recent series of Sound
Dramas which were sponsored by
the Radio Homemakers Club.

Ly
a

The lounge in the Alumni
Building has been repapered and
painted and the room generally re-_
decorated. A good radio has been
installed and a few rugs added.
The room presents a very attrac-—
tive an homelike appearance. The
Secretary is most anxious to have-
the rooms used more by the alum- —
ni,—both local and visitors. Card
tables are available, and at any —
time that it suits you to drop in
you will be welcome.

The paint on the outside of
the house has also been renewed,
and the whole building is in excel-
@ lent condition.

intimin

EDWARD V. VALENTINE DIES

Edward Virginius Valentine, sculptor of the re- —
cumbent statue of General Robert E. Lee, in the Lee ©
Chapel on the Washington and Lee Campus, died at his
home in Richmond, Va., on October 19, at the age of
91.

Mr. Valentine, a native of Richmond, received his
early education in that city. He later studied his
chosen profession for many years in Europe. Return-
ing to this country shortly after the close of the War
Between the States he opened a studio in Richmond.

Mr. Valentine gained world-wide fame from his
statue of General Lee. It has been said by competent
authorities that this is the finest recumbent statue in
America, and it has been compared favorably with the
famous statue of General “Chinese” Gordon in West-
minster Abbey.

 

reg? Fey,” igs. Gee tae |

Mw A> GB # 2 Eee

Governor MacCorkle, Trustee, Dead

ILLIAM ALEXANDER MacCORKLE,

LL.B., ’78, Trustee of Washington and Lee

since 1918, died at his beautiful home “Sun-

se,” in South Hills, near Charleston, West Virginia,
on September 24th.

He was born in Rock-
pridge County V irginia, on

ay 7, 1857. His father
was William MacCorkle
and his mother was Mary
Morrison MacCorkle. His
ancestors were Scotch-
Irish and were leaders in
the affairs of their day.

Due to his father’s
love of adventure, the boy
was taken to Missouri to
live when he was 18 months
old, and there the family
remained throughout the
Civil War period during
which his father partici-
pated as a Confederate sol-
dier, only to lose his life.

In his book “The Rec-
ollections of Fifty Years of
West Virginia” he de-
scribes the trials which be-
fell his widowed mother.
There was a struggle to
keep the wolf from the
door while they still lived
in the West and then the
mother took her children
back to Virginia.

It was here that young
MacCorkle grew up and was educated. He worked
om the farm and attended Washington and Lee, grad-
uating with the degree of LL.B. in 1879.

After receiving his law degree he left his native
State of Virginia and made his home in Charleston, W.
. Va. “Impecunious as I had been since my father’s
death, I came to Charleston without any arrangements
for my living, except the determination to get along,”
he wrote some 50 years later.

How well this determination to “get along’. was
farried out was amply demonstrated by his active life
and the position of leadership which he soon took in
the social. political, religious, and industrial develop-
Ment of his time, and the acquisition of wealth, and

me which extended far beyond the borders of the
State.

 

Mr. MacCorkle was elected Governor of West
Virginia when he was only 36 years old. A remark

in one of the republican national conventions about

the “wild little state of West Virginia,’ shaped the
fundamental policy of Governor MacCorkle’s adminis-
tration as one of advertis-
ing and exploiting the great
natural resources of the
state. He carried the story
of her opportunities to the
centers of capital in the
United States and Europe
and was the direct and in-
direct means of bringing in
many millions for invest-
ment.

He did not confine his
activities to politics. His
home “Sunrise,” with its
collections of paintings and
objects of art, was unique
in the United States, and
here the Governor enter-
tained with lavish hospital-
ity his friends from all
parts of the country. He
had written several books
and was a close friend of
George Haven Putnam,
who visited him often at
his home.

In 1881 Mr. MacCor-
kle married Miss Belle
Goshorn. She died in 1923.
His daughter, Isabel, was
killed in an automobile ac-
cident. His son, William C. MacCorkle, also an alum-
nus of Washington and Lee, Class of 1910, is living
in Charleston.

As a Trustee of Washington and Lee University,
with all the varied and insistent demands upon his time
and attention, he was never too busy to give his best to
the institution which he loved,—and loving served.

as
aa

Captain Paul A Rockwell, ’10, a member of the
French Foreign Legion, visited his alma mater recently.
Mr. Rockwell and his brother, Kiffin Y. Rockwell, were
members of the famous LaFayette Escadrille and were
among the first Americans to join the French army in
the World War. Kiffin Rockwell was shot down and
killed in a plane during the war. Both brothers were
decorated a number of times.

 

[| 17 |

ce a 8 A iL Ad ae oa

Notables Speak at Gaines’ Inauguratio

PRESIDENT GAINES

mi THINK of
a be -|Washington and
Des iLee is to re-
member an ideal.

An ideal stirred the
settlers of this Valley
who in days of grimness
dreamed of fruitage and
of light. It drew from
Washington a donation
of financial resource
and a felicity of sonor-
ous phrase. It proved
stronger than wars and
their disconsolate train.
Unto it Lee brought the
summation of his life.

As this ideal has been
powerful, so it has been
free. The years define
broadly the title given
this enterprise in the re-
christening of 1776,
Liberty Hall. Dedicated
to ends of citizenship,
this institution has been
free from the domination of any frantic frac-
tion of popular whim. Aspiring to lead men to view
life as through the eyes of Christ, it has been free
from the clamor of conflicting creed. Reverencing
the Southern sentiment which crystallizes in its com-
munity, Washington and Lee, through the influence
of him who was greatest alike in that sentiment and
this academic history, has been free from the preju-
dice an the pride of sectionalism. Striving for char-
acter not less than for learning, it has liberated stu-

 

  

 

 

PRESIDENT GAINES

 

GOVERNOR PRESIDENT

PrEs.-EMERITUS

[ 18 |

   
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
     
   
    

MA’ G AZ ia

dents from most of the regulatory minutia, so
out of his freedom each boy may cry,

“If it be a sin to covet honor,

I am the most offending soul alive.”

It is an utterly new world in which this j¢
today seeks expression. ‘Then there was but a sp
band of heroic youth who annually set forth upon’
pilgrimage of knowledge, isolating themselves in
of quietness; now the browning of the leaves sees
exodus a nation of youth never quite detached fg
the larger world. ‘Then the Pierian spring was sin
and standard; now tumbling cascades of variega
curricula are at every turning of the road. Then
mode of student life was a routine beyond the che
of much deviability; now it is colored and noisy w
the frolic pageantry of campus styles. ‘Then, if 3
may believe the prophets of lament, the objective w
the training of the mind; now the objective is to
money. Then, to quote again the frightened crit
the pilgrims were responsive to emotional impulg
now they are young sophisticates, sprayed by the ae
of futility, seeking to integrate life in hardness beye
the scope of vulnerable moods. |

But to think of Washington and Lee is to beli
in an ideal.

It is to believe that this ideal shall still be f
free from new threats as well as old restraints. It
to believe that this ideal may preserve its liberty agai
the modern tyrannies of standardization. Hu
seeking to learn from the processes of other ed
tional effort, this ideal shall be independent of
contagion of conformity, the assumption that eve
institution must do exactly the same thing in exae
the same way at exactly the same time. Its ideal
still to be free from the coercions of premature spe
ialization. It shall not deny young life its legiti
professional interests, it shall in broad terms t
young minds into the ideas, young lips into the voeé
ulary, of their destined work. But this highway is #
to be cut into the deep ravines of trade. The energ
dedicated to this ideal shall not cramp youth into ¢
intellectual straight-jacket of economic necessity.

To think of this ideal is to believe that still it
power. Its power is to survive the unforeseen viet
situde, to enlist great teachers, great friends.
more than this, its power is still to achieve a distincti
purpose: to reach beyond the monotony of instrtt
tion, beyond the formulas of fact, forever wideniil

      
   
    
  

and forever intensifying, forever important and fé
ever trivial, to reach beyond these and deposit in ff
liie of a boy something a little finer than culture,
little rarer than competence, a little nobler than st

 

T H E Ate Ayia! N

 

cess; to quicken a dream within the young brain pre-
pared for dreams by the agony of the aeons, to for-
mulate within the tenderness of the heart some co-
herence for its own compulsions, to furnish young per-
sonality with potency and with poise.

Such faith is justified by our recollections of this
ideal in the past and by our knowledge of the material
of the present upon which the ideal will work. Around
us the air is full of the facile dictions of despondency,

as an unadjusted conservatism watches young life
sweep on, as it has always done, to swifter adapta-
tions. But the promise of tomorrow is still written

only upon the countenance of youth; and those who
know youth best see that the tablet still .is fair, the
message 1S still of hope.

An antique poet has left for us an impressive
figure. It is to be regretted that we have shuddered
at the gloom of his prediction rather than marveled at
the brilliance of his theme.

“Or ever the golden bowl be broken—.”’

Perhaps just for the moment he was thinking not
of death but of life. Perhaps here is an implication
of our ideal; to take the bowl of life, so precious in
native materials, and to give it beauty with a pattern
of courtesy and of charm; to give it dimension with
capacity for lovely interests and generous sympathies;
to give it strength that it may resist and may endure;
to give a divine utility that again and again it may be
emptied before high altars. Perhaps this bowl is the
Holy Grail of our privileged quest, the gleaming
grace of which shall strengthen stumbling feet over
the ranges of difficulty, shall illumine every shadowed
vale of our despair.

Saw ye no more?
|, Galahad, saw the Holy Grail.
| saw the holy cup descend upon the shrine.
| saw the Holy Face as of a child.”

s

——_——o
THE HON. JOHN W. DAVIS

 

es |l IS MY privilege to speak on this auspicious
| occasion for the Alumni of Washington and

|
== |Lee. It seems entirely fitting that we should
We are the past. The present is always
vocal and the future stands waiting to drive us further
into the dim and shadowy background. Do not be-
grudge us a chance to be heard before we disappear.

The past—the past of Washington and Lee; the
little academy founded by the Scotch Irish settlers of the
Valley, who true to the traditions of their race fronted

be heard.

the wilderness with a Bible in one hand and a school
book in the other, ready to lay them down for the mus-
ket when occasion arose; the struggling college en-
dowed by Washington and by his consent baptized with
his immortal name, playing well its humble part until
the lightnings of civil war broke upon it and all but con-
sumed it in their flames; the reborn institution presided

I

mm A aS CA 2 eee

over by that counterpart of Washington whose ashes
make forever holy the ground on which we stand, en-
larged, strengthen-
ed, and inspired by
his life and death
to the pursuit of
lofty ideals and
noble purposes;
and finally the Un-
iversity of today,
led in turn by Cus-
tis Lee, and Wil-
son, and Denny,
and Smith, whose
worthy — successor
we are assembled
to inaugurate. Of
this past we Alum-
ni are not asham-
ed. You must for-
give us a pardon-
able pride also as
we contemplate the
names upon our roster—statesmen, soldiers, judges,
preachers, authors, scientists, teachers, engineers, men
of leading and of character who played men’s parts in
their day and generation. I call upon them all, the
living and the dead, to witness to the past of Washing-
ton and Lee.

What is it that we of the past wish to say to you

 

 

CHANCELLOR KIRKLAND

    
        

~~.

a ~ , apts =]

wae. J a * a : .

Peet ee Re
_-= Tod i « Sd .. o °

rt - .* SS eR ag nee ee” —” : %

yo ce - . wo" : — i d vs a
<< 7.3 i r aS ° a? °

a >> >

ad r "oe

Mayor-GENERAL LEJEUNE

| 12 |

fees me |! Ath AD Maen

of the present and you of the future at this Institution ?
First of all, we ask you not to forget this past of which
I speak. We cherish for it—we Alumni—an affection
too profound to be put in words. That fraction of the
past of which we were a part is colored in our mem-

 

 

OA ———

we

ay

a
“ ~
iS

~

: ‘ Poee , +
seat anes © we i yee im. : i : — one ba a -
PT ak OI VEGI OS PP 1 Pe EI

Tue WASHINGTON AND LEE TRUSTEES

ory with the vernal hues of life’s glorious springtime—
colors that brighten rather than grow dimmer with the
lapse of time; and for the rest we think of it as does
the wanderer of the land where he was born. Share
this feeling with us; and be assured as you enter into
this common inheritance that the strongest and most
enduring institutions, the most compelling traditions,
the loftiest impulses and ambitions are those whose
roots strike deepest into the soil of bygone years.
What have we of the past and you of the present
together to say to the future? Little of admonition,
less of prophecy but much of hope. ‘To some of us it
seems that not only is the work of Washington and Lee
not finished, it is hardly begun. Profoundly do we be-
lieve that there lies before her a day of usefulness
greater than any she has ever known. Education,
keeping step with the enormous spread of human know-
ledge, has gone far since the days when the Liberty
Hall Academy first opened its doors. I do not doubt
that men have not only found more things to learn,
but better ways of learning them—perhaps even better
uses for the things that they have learned. Certainly no
one would wish to stop this onward march or discour-
age any experiments directed to a steadier step or a
more certain attainment of the goal. Yet I make bold
to think that not all the experiments that have been

[ 20 |

I

 

   

MA GA ZitI1I Nas
made in the educational field have proven their value,”
It is permitted to question whether some of the ten=
dencies discernible in modern education are sure to
contribute to the elevation and advancment of mankind, ~
Neither is it to be hoped that the teaching profession,”
more than any other, should have entirely
escaped the corroding influence of they
charlatan. Is it not possible that in the?
eager desire to serve a utilitarian age ae
wholly disproportionate stress has been)
put by modern education on the verb “to”
do,” with a regrettable lessening of em=
phasis on the verb “to be’? Surrounded”
-as I am by those whose knowledge and ex
perience of such matters so far transcends
my own, it would be presumptuous to7
labor the point; but there is a rounded cul-
ture, an elevation of the mind and heart, a”
catholic outlook on life quite as needful”
to make the truly educated man as training
along so-called “practical” lines. It has”
been well and truly said that “Education”
is to teach you how to do the things you
haven’t been taught to do.” |

Here is an educational field that opens
to Washington and Lee opportunities as
broad as the continent and as lasting as”
time itself. She may never confront them”
with a treasury as full as that of her more
fortunate sisters, although it is greatly to
be hoped that in time her too meagre re-
sources will be adequately increased. She may not—
indeed I pray she may never—take all learning for her”
province and institute a course in every subject from
sanscrit to seamanship. But in the subjects she selects”
it is in her power to create as deep and true a scholar-
ship as can anywhere be found. It is within her grasp ~
to be known among men not for the multitude of her
courses or even the size of her stadia, but for her su-—
preme excellence in whatever she undertakes ; and in the
things of the spirit she can be—she is—as rich as the”
richest of them all.

When I think of our many necessities in equip-
ment and finance, I am comforted by the recollection of
a recent visit to one of the oldest of the German univer-—
sities. With a plant no more, indeed hardly as com- |
modious as our own, with financial endowment incon-
siderable by modern standards, she has none the less
been sending out for centuries her sons to lead their
people. Her teachings and. their achievements have™
made the name of Heidelberg resound throughout the7
world. 3

So there broods over the campus today as through-
out its history a something which teaches men that there
is no glory in false pretense, that success is worthless 7
when gained by dishonorable means, and that the great™
rewards of life are won in the service not of oneself

 

 

  

E Avi As. hee
= 4H
——
put of others. It is something which enables those it
touches to bear .

‘“& & * without abuse

The grand old name of gentleman

Defamed by every charlatan

And soiled with all ignoble use.”
tet us cherish it. Sicut et patribus, sit deus nobis.

These, in brief, are the things which the Alumni

would have me say today, an this the inheritance we
come to give into the keeping of our new President.
We count our Alma Mater fortunate in finding one so
worthy, in scholarship, in achievement and in personal
character to be her chief servant. We hail his com-
ing, we predict great things under his leadership, and
we promise him our loyal, our constant, and, so far as
in us lies, our helpful support.

fy
Ae

COMMISSIONER W. J. COOPER

| IS a privilege to be present on this occasion
_jand as a representative of the Department of
“|the Interior and its Office of Education to
bring you the greetings and best wishes of the Govern-
ment of the United States.

The inauguration of a president affords one an
excellent opportunity either to take a backward look
over the history of a college emphasizing its great
achievements or to risk a glimpse into the future and to
prophesy. So might I tonight, looking to the past,
attempt one more tribute to the patriots whose names
this college so proudly bears. But cer-
tainly they stand in no need of eulogy. I
do find myself tempted, however, to re-
view for the benefit of this generation the
interest of our first President in education,
as evidenced in part by his gift to this col-
lege. But this temptation I also resist.
As an educator I might be pardoned were I
to survey the progress of the American col-
lege up to this time or to examine the ob-
jectives to which it subscribes today, or to
dutline some trends which seem to indicate
the place which the college is likely to hold
m the life of tomorrow. Rather, how-
“ver, shall I use the few minutes alloted to
me to point out one important function of
the American college which this institution
should be able to perform unusually well.

I speak, therefore, on the relationship
Of educated men and women to the social
sfoups of which they are parts. To say
that a college should produce leaders for
. democracy is to utter platitude. ‘To in-
we that the chief purpose of higher edu-
e is to enable young people to develop a philosophy

€ without which no one can really achieve adult
™Man personality is to contend for what most of you
J

  

[| 21 |

I

om th AA. ae eee

will concede at once and to open up a fruitless discus-
sion of the way and means to realize such a goal. Yet
what I do want to say involves both society and the
individual.

‘Personality,’ according to Webster, “implies
complex being or character having distinctive and per-
sistent traits, among which reason, self-consciousness
and self-activity are usually reckoned as essential.”
Since some of these conditioning factors may be con-
trolled, I hold that human personality can be built
through education. Felix Adler implies this when he
says, ‘Personality includes individuality but is some-
thing superadded to it.” “A person is an individual,”
he contends, “but an individual is not therefore a per-
son.” Now an individual, according to the dictionary
writers, is “‘a particular being as distinguished from a
class, species, or.a collection.” Some of our leading
anthropologists make out a strong case for the notion
that an individual human being achieves his personality
through imprinting on him various social patterns.
We will all concede, I believe, that the social pattern
called language conditions the ways an individual thinks
and certainly determines the way in which he can ex-
press his thoughts. If perchance this pattern embraces
pecularities of dialect it forms one element of “unlike-
ness” which sets him off from other individuals. We
also realize that the social pattern, religion, is a deter-
mining factor in the personality of individuals. The
same may be said of tradition, of contemporary cus-
toms, and of many other social elements.

99

 

DEAN Tucker, Former ActinG PRESIDENT; PRESIDENT SMITH:
AND PRESIDENT GAINES

Consider for a moment the men for whom this
college is named. Washington and Lee were both
Caucasians; they were both of the Anglo-Saxon ex-

Pm & AS i. A) oe ae

traction; they were both English speaking; they were
both Virginians; and both were Episcopalians. In the
case of both individuals these social patterns tended to
make for similarity in personality. Therefore, Wash-
ington and Lee quite properly represent Virginia in the
National Hall of Fame. But another significant ele-
ment in personality which affords the quality of “dis-
tinction” and at the same time makes for uniqueness 1s
the factor of the great causes which an individual em-
braces and makes his own. ‘To my mind Washington's
personality takes on its distinctive meaning from the
fact that he became the human embodiment of the
great cause of American independence. Likewise
Lee’s personality appears to me to take on its mean-
ing from the fact that he embodied so perfectly the
“lost cause.” ‘The difference between these two great
issues makes for “uniqueness” of personality in the two
individuals.

Thus far I appear to subscribe to the doctrine that
an individual acquires his personality largely through
the social groups in which he moves. ‘This leads me
to inquire briefly into the nature of society. Society,
according to Webster, consists of “a group of individ-
uals united by some form of conimon interest and hav-
ing some organization; also, in an abstract sense, the
union or sum of relations by which the individuals of
a group are associated.” Clearly there can be no so-
ciety without individuals.

Neither time nor the occasion make it possible for
me to discuss the intricate relationships between the
individual and society. Such procedure would involve
the philosophic concepts of egoism and altruism. Our
Christian ethic has emphasized altruism. “Love thy
neighbor as thyself’? was a favorite theme of ‘The
Master. “Am I my brother’s keeper?” has been the
text of countless thousands of sermons! Programs
of action based on an affirmative answer to this chal-
lenge have proven hardly less tolerable to some than
submission to despots. Religious education urges al-
truism both for the brothers’ sake and for the souls’
sake. I suspect that if the inner motives of young
people and their parents could be known we should
find in the colleges and secondary schools all over this
land countless thousands whose chief purpose in ac-
quiring education is to escape from occupations de-
manding physical toil or to gain entree to callings high
in social esteem or financial remuneration or both.

Committees of American educators have attempt-
ed to reconcile the two points of view by elaborating
some of the social principles of Herbert Spencer. Ac-
cordingly we have reports setting forth ‘‘objectives”’
and enumerating “cardinal principles.”” In these car-
dinal principles appeals to egoism and to altruism are
mingled. For instance, the objective of health is
developed in a way to appeal to self-interest but the
curriculum maker has in mind that by inducing a pupil
to care for his own health individuals will not infect

[ 22 |

I

  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

MASA 94a? 2 ee

others and the health of the community is preserve
In urging vocational efficiency the educator has in min
getting all the work of the world done properly withoy
serious shortages in any field but his appeal is direct}
to the ego. It is an urge to prepare to earn one’s li
ing. The ideal of preparing pupils to discharge the
civic duties has been based almost wholly on the altruis
tic—reinforced entirely. These so-called objecti
have been easy to talk about but have been difficult
realize in practice by appeals to the powerful social in
pulse called patriotism. It is likely that the econom
conditions of American life have had much to do wit
this. The possibility of realizing great fortur
through the exploitation of natural resources throug
increased land values due to rapid increases in pop
lation and through the large scale production of man
factured foods, have overemphasized the dollars
cents element in American life.

The possibility of social interference with simp
economic principles have been witnessed in tariffs»
develop or protect manufactures, legislation or vol
tary organization to product wage scales, patents, cop
rights, and other forms of monopoly created by leg
enactment or social need. These actions resulting
financial benefit to individuals or groups have oper
the eyes of many persons to the opportunity for p
sonal advantage at the expense of society. Acco
ingly, for the college of tomorrow I suggest a thoroug
going study of society, of the individual, and of
relations of one to the other. ‘Society ideally e
ceived,” Felix Adler says, “is a system of recipro
give andtake. It has never been really so; the stro
the unscrupulous, the cunning, have always taken me
than they have given.” ‘Today we can find at oneé
treme the Saint who takes no thought for tomo
but gives his coat to his neighbor, and at the other €
treme the original self-seeker who looks upon soci
as his legitimate prey, and who is so brazen in s¢
American cities that he corrupts the machinery of
ernment itself. The fact that society is composed’
individuals is recognized in a general way but the f
that the individual is in large part a product of ©
society in which he lives, gets his opportunity to
velop from it, is fully realized by but few. The id
of Doctor Adler that society is a system of recipre
give and take is accepted by those business men ¥
subscribe to the doctrine of service. But in gene
we still measure success in terms of the almighty do

Where can this reciprocal doctrine be pionee
better than in a college named for George Washing
and Robert E. Lee? Where can be found two
who are in higher degree the best products of the
ciety of their generation and at the same time be
examples of men who gave freely in return for W
they received? Washington was a well-to-do colon
who gave up the time and the leisure which society
made possible for him, to serve his country thre

 

 

 

 

 

= H & AdL AU MM» N= M GA iG AA 2 3 oe
>=
seven long years of battle and many other long years with lead, and the crown which is placed on his head is
of civilian service refusing all financial reward, giving woven with many thorns. .
his country abundantly of his personal strength, his The American College has been the object of
abilities and his resources, and declining kingly honors criticism for a long period of years, but criticism has
and every opportunity to profit personally from official never been more acute or more universal than today,
sition. Where is there a better example of splendid and the American University that has grown and de-
middle nineteenth century manhood than Robert E. veloped out of the American College is also receiving
Lee, comf ortably fixed, educated in his country’s mili- its share of public attention. In all of these criticisms
tary academy, offered the command of the nation’s the president becomes the central object of attack, and
military forces, yet standing by the social group which it is his fault if problems are not solved and if nuis-
had moulded him, and giving his service for four years ances remain unabated. |
of warfare? And he too declined to profit financially We are told that the American College of Liberal
from the greatness which had come to surround his Arts is no longer needed and is doomed to extinction.
name and came here to serve the young men who at- On the one side the public high school is developing into
tended this institution ! the junior college, and promises to take care of the work
In the writings of a sixteenth century poet is a of the first two years. At the other end comes pro-
little ballad which begins with the words “Follow your fessional work offered by the great universities and ac-
Saint.” In joining with you in commemorating this cepted as the completion of the college course. If the
pleasant occasion may I say to this college “Follow college is not crushed between these two millstones we
your Saints re are told that it must accept as its supreme task the ob-
0 ligation of providing pre-professional or pre-vocational
training. Students no longer should waste their time
CHANCELLOR J. H. KIRKLAND in the study of the classics or even of modern literature,
wa|'T IS a distinct privilege to join in the festiv- but should be made familiar with new courses offered
lities of this occasion, and I desire my first on Hotel Management, on Police Administration and
5 |words to be those of appreciation, and an ex- Traffic Control, and City Zoning.
of good will from the institution which I have Then again, the President is held responsible for
the honor to represent. Your program indicates that changes in student life, and for the attitude of the whole
I am to speak for the colleges and universities of American public toward college life. If students to-
America. This is a rather large undertaking and one for day prefer to burn gasoline rather than the mid-night
which I can claim no sufficient authorization. The oil, if they over emphasize the extra curriculum activ-
number of these institutions is great. Some are old, ities, if they fail to respond to appeals made to them by
some are young, some are administered by states, some their teachers, the president of the college is responsible,
by churches, and some by independent boards. Some and the public at large feels that in some way he is fail-
are located in cities, and some in the country. They ing to meet the obligations of his office. On him like-
vary in detail, but they all resemble each other in wise falls the blame for excesses in college athletics.
many respects. They were all built up with the college If football players are subsidized, if coaches do unpro-
of liberal arts as the heart and center of the organi- fessional things, if the alumni manifest more interest
zation, and they are all wrestling with the same prob- in winning games than in writing books, if newspapers
lems today and meeting the same difficulties. All of give more space to a star football player than to a star
these institutions feel a deep interest in the progress professor, and if the great American public is willing to
of any one of the number, and signs of new life and pay excessive sums for amusement and excitement,
development meet universal recognition. then again the college president is to blame, for surely
Then again, I might claim the right to bring a he ought to be able to correct the trend of American
personal greeting from the presidents of these colleges life, to stay the wild passions of alumni, to put a muf-
and universities, for a personal tie binds us all together. fler on the yells of students, and to stand in successful
Every chief executive officer regards with sympathetic opposition to all the currents that sweep around us.
interest the attitude of others engaged in like pursuit. Then there is one problem that every college pres-
To you, Mr. President, after a short term of appren- ident has to struggle with, and that is the financial
ticeship, now entering a larger field and taking up heav- one. It is a commonplace observation that college
ler duties and larger responsibilities, we veterans in ser- professors are underpaid. It is not perhaps generally
Vice turn with a distinct feeling of admiration and hope. understood that the president is reminded of this again
he work of a college president has increased greatly and again annually. Naturally his colleagues look
Within the past twenty-five years, and shows no prom- to him to correct so outstanding an evil as this. Aside
Se of lessening. He who accepts a service of this from this fact the president must consider the needs
Ind at the present time does so with the distinct know- of his institution in a dozen other directions. There
edge that the robe of office which he puts on is seamed can be no improvement, without increased resources.
[ 23 ]

a. A fl SY

I

 
 

MUA Pe AAS

 

The larger world that commands our attention every
day makes daily larger demands on educational institu-
tions. New buildings are needed, new laboratories,
new equipment, new teachers, more courses, and more
books. These things are brought to the attention of
the president by every member of the faculty. Happy
is the man who can dismiss all these things from his
thoughts when the hour for rest and sleep comes at
night. ;

These are only a few of the obligations, Mr.
President, that you will have to meet in the years to
come. We regard you with unfeigned admiration be-
cause of your courage in facing them. Fortunately
you have certain distinct advantages. You come to an
institution in which traditions of honor and of schol-
arship are very strong. If there are any outstanding
evils to be corrected the world has not heard of them.
You can build on secure foundations laid by your dis-
tinguished predecessors. Not in a single century can
the memory and the example of the immortal Lee be
erased from this campus. Again, you have an able
and a loyal faculty to hold up your hands in all your
great undertakings. I have the assurance, also, that
your trustees are giving you all possible support and
encouragement. Without the hindrance of immatur-
ity and inexperience you have the great advantage of
youth and of strength. You can make far-reaching
plans and work patiently for them. You have also the
support of many friends and patrons who love this
institution, and to whom its history is sacred. You
will, therefore, not work alone in your sacred tasks.
The stars in their courses are fighting for you.

May I also add this word of encouragement. In
spite of the criticisms already alluded to, the educa-
tional institutions of this country testify to the de-
votion, the ability and magnificent courage of many
administrative leaders who have shaped their desti-
nies. It would be easy to call names of institutions
which seem almost identical with the names of certain
outstanding college presidents. Men have made in-
stitutions and are daily making them, and even in
cases where such leadership is not so apparent, and
where success seems less certain, a more careful ex-
amination of history will bring to light the story of
faithful lives and of great achievements unrecorded
and unrewarded. Many lives have been spent in this
sacred service. College towers are often monuments
without inscriptions to those who have served and are
forgotten. I would hearten you then with the assur-
ance that a great work and a great world awaits you.

This is not the first time that I have brought
greetings to Washington and Lee University on an
occasion such as this. It is now just thirty-three years
since I, then a young man and a novice in administra-
tive work, dared to speak words of appreciation and
encouragement to William IL. Wilson as he began his
service as your President. Today I return, older in

[| 24 |

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

years and in experience, to bring a similar greeting
a younger colleague. But in spite of the lapse of yea
and in spite of many failures, I still cherish the fe
of my youth. I still believe the work of such an_
stitution as Washington and Lee a most importa
factor in the life and history of America. I still :
visions of future achievement far surpassing an
done in the past. My face is still set toward the risi
sun and not toward the shadows of the west. IT
joice with those who look forward to a new day a
to new opportunities of labor. As my final word
encouragement to the hero of this hour, I bring
own summing up of his duties and rewards: To lz
constantly for the world with no thought of self,
find indifference and opposition where you ought
have active assistance, to meet criticism with patier
and the open attacks of ignorance without resent
to plead with others for their own good, to folk
sleepless nights with days of incessant toil, to str
continuously without ever attaining—this it is to b
college president. But this is only half the truth.

be associated with ambitious youth and high-ming
men, to live in an atmosphere charged with thougl
of the world’s greatest thinkers, to dream of a gole
age not in the past but in the future, to have the
alted privilege of striving to make that dream a real
to build up great kingdoms of material conquest
make daily life richer and fuller, to spiritualize wea
and convert it into weal, to enrich personal charac
and elevate all human relationships, to leave the 1
press of one’s life on a great and immortal institutt
—this, too, it is to be a college president.

 

MAJ.-GEN. J. A. LEJEUNE

T IS a high privilege for any one to be pe
ted to play a part in this ceremony of Inaug
ration, and I am keenly sensitive of the hon
bestowed on me by Washington and Lee University
giving me the opportunity to be a participant in an eve
of such great importance in the life of the Univers
and in the field of education not only of the State of
ginia but of all the other states of the Unicn as

 

 

Because of the wide-spread influence exercised
the University, interest in this event is not confined”
those who are present in the flesh but includes, al
thousands of its loyal alumni and a multitude of oft
friends in every state of the Union, who are here 1
day in spirit, and are joining with us in these é€
cises.

Somehow, too, there seems to hover over us
inystic influence of those who have labored here a
who have since passed over to the other shore, @
around the name of the University there clusters
memories and sacred traditions of two superb m@
whose greatness is now proclaimed by all the world.

, oe, ee 7

 

T HE A AL A OM UN

 

Truly the University is national in its scope, its
influence, and its fame.

It is, also, a vital part of Virginia’s educational
system, and one of the state’s most cherished institu-
tions.

Especially is it beloved by the people of Rock-
bridge County, and the town of Lexington. They
look upon it as their very own.

Therefore, while hundreds of colleges are send-
ing you messages and messengers of good will, it is
not surprising that there should be one College whose
interest in this event is exceeded only by your interest
and whose heart, today, is beating in complete unison
with your heart.

I refer to the Virginia Military Institute, which
has been your neighbor for more than ninety years.

How beautiful, how expressive, and how sacred
is the old word neighbor!

Its sound recalls to our minds the memory of
many dear friends who have been our neighbors in
the years gone by, and reminds us that we are charged
by Holy Writ to love our neighbors as ourselves.

It is the good fortune of Washington and Lee
University and Virginia Military Institute to be
neighbors, not only in the physical sense but in the
higher sense as well.

They are not rivals or competitors, but are closely
bound together by ties of friendship and good will.

Fach is striving in its own way and in accordance
with its own peculiar genius to accomplish the same
high purpose.

Each is engaged in the same great enterprise.

Fach is endeavoring to carry on its work in har-
mony with the Divine Will.

It is the mission of both so to lead and to guide
the young men who reside for a while in their halls
as to fit them physically, mentally and spiritually to
play manly parts in the struggle which inevitably con-
fronts every man who dwells on this planet.

I reiterate that the two institutions are not rivals
but that they are fellow laborers, co-workers and good
neighbors.

It is, therefore, very fitting that each should
grieve when the other grieves and that each should
rejoice when the other rejoices.

Certainly, there is much joy in the heart of the
Superintendent of the Virginia Military Institute to-
day because of this happy event in the life of Wash-
ington and Lee University.

I congratulate President Gaines on his elevation
to the high office of President of this University. I
wish for him a most successful administration of its
affairs. I welcome him as a neighbor and friend.

I congratulate the University, too, on the happy
choice that it has made and I look forward to the
coming ‘years fully confident that the high ideals of
George Washington and Robert E. Lee will be loy-

I

MIA G §A 2 tae

ally maintained and that the great esteem in which the
University is now held will be steadily increased under
the abie guidance and the inspiring leadership of
President Gaines.

 

fy
Vv

DR. JOHN H. FINLEY

 

S|AD I continued in the office of College Pres-
jident, which I assumed nearly forty years ago,
=== |I should be the oldest living College or Uni-
versity President in America—save one or two. I am
glad that I could before quitting the earth visit the
place where one of the noblest souls in all history,
Robert E. Lee, served as College President. He has
by his occupancy of this office given it a highest dis-
tinction. I am proud to have been even “a sometime
college president” as Mr. McDermott has introduced
me. 3

It is, I infer, on account of my seniority that I
have been invited to say the first word of greeting to
this young man. On other like occasions I have thought
of myself as Priam on the walls of Troy, wise with
years and garrulous with age, to whom Helen pointed
out the young heroes on the plain below. I should do
so again if President Ferry were not here. So I speak
of myself in the figure of the old Pilgrim at the road-
side in the frontispiece of the copy of Spenser’s Faerie
Queen which I came to know in my college days. This
pedestrain pilgrim was standing at the roadside and
giving advice to a young knight who was just starting
out on his adventures, mounted upon a fine steed. ‘The
salutation of the old pilgrim to the younger ran, as I
first read it:

Right well ye have advised been
The way to win is rightly to advertise

It gave me some surprise that in Edmund Spenser’s
day so much attention should be given to advertising,
but on second reading I found that the correct version
was

  

 

 

 

Right well ye have advised been

The way to win is wisely to advise.
You have been amply and eloquently advised, and es-
pecially by that wisest of advisers, Chancellor Kirk-
land. You are to win by advising the thousands who
will study here.

But I should like to represent those of my own
ancestry who settled this region and founded this col-
lege — the Scotch-Irish — who were, as President
Roosevelt said, the spray of the wave of migration that
broke over these mountains. And I have special leave
to speak of them because of what Mr. Davis said in his
notable address, which should be sent not only to every .
alumnus of Washington and Lee but to every college
and university, as a definition of the aims of the Ameri-
can college.

The early history of America has been written
largely by the New Englanders. Even in song it is

[ 25 |

: ae Some A aL (60 Man

“the land of the Pilgrims’ pride.” The part that the
Puritans of the Middle States and the South had in
establishing the institutions and predestinating the life
of America has never had its due credit.

Except for them, the independence of the colonies
would not have been won even if declared. The Con-
stitution would not have been such as ultimately to hold
the States in perfect union. And the civilization de-
veloped under it would not have had the moral rigor
and vigor, the adventurous individualism and the po-
litical wisdom which have given it its distinctive charac-
ter.

A first voice for independence, first uttered in this
State; a valorous, determining part in winning it, as a
Key’s march; a dominant part in making the Consti-
tution for the new nation; a pioneer part in expanding
it, and a prefatory part in assuring the free exercise of
religion—these with their promptings of spirit, ac-
companiments in action and results in character are
suggestive of the distinctive contribution that those of
Scottish origin who established this College and fos-
tered the faith which led them, made to the predestinat-
ing of the American that is and that is to be.

But religious freedom being won, have these New
World scions of the Old World Calvinism carried on
and made sure for America its calling and election ?

I quoted yesterday—in the presence of some who
are here today—Professor Beard in his “Rise of
American Civilization,” who in turn quotes with ap-
proval the great historical scholar, Dr. J. Franklin
Jameson, in his relating the extension of political equal-
ity with the prosperity of certain religious bodies (the
Methodist and Baptist being particularly mentioned)
that reject the Calvinist doctrine of election for the
favored few. “How,” he asked, “could Jacksonian dem-
ocrats who exalted the masses of farmers and me-
chanics believe in a system of theology which con-
demned most of them to hell in advance without a
hearing and reserved heaven for a select aristocracy
favored of God?”

My answer on the other side of the State yester-
day was that the Methodists and Baptists have but
made the Almighty more generous in His elections, I
will not say lowered the entrance requirements but
modified them and that they have all become more
deeply Calvinistic in the regarding it as their common
duty not to concentrate upon their individual salvation
but “rather to cooperate in furthering the will of God
in the earth.” Andre Siegfried, who is now often
spoken of as the successor of De Tocqueville and Bryce,
in his most discerning recent study of “America Comes
of Age,” insists that America is essentially Calvinistic
in its religious and social development; for the Calvin-
ist thinks himself as having a mission to carry out:
“namely, to purify the community and uplift the State,”
and make the influence of Christ dominate every in-
terest in life. In this he finds the explanation of prac-

 

[ 26 |

I

  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
    
    
     
   
  
    
  
   
  

ev, i Ce ee eee

tical idealism of America. “Every American,” h
adds, “is at heart an Evangelist, he is a Wilson, a B
or a Rockefeller.” “He cannot leave people alone;
That is the key to American civilization which th
French observer has found — “not the reformation 9
individual character but the transformation of society?
He has ascribed this attitude and doctrine to the des.
cendants of the Puritans of three centuries ago, but
he had inquired more closely he would have discovereg
that it was rather the Puritans of two centuries ago
the Puritans of the Middle States and the South whe
separated Church and State yet expected the Kingdom
of Heaven to come on earth through “liberty support.
ing authority” (“being first satisfied that the State 4
working for their conception of the Kingdom of Hea-
ven on earth.” ) 4

This discriminating critic in finding “almost in.
sufferable” the self-satisfaction of the typical Americz
as a member of God’s elect — “the moral aristocra
and his idea that his duty towards his neighbor “is
convert, purify and raise him to his own moral level”
extending election is at the same time testifying to the
dominance of the Calvinistic attitude and influence.
And if it still be said that this attitude is not consisten
with the democracy we profess, I reply with the decla-
ration of a highest authority on Calvanism that “free-
dom and democracy spring from the assertion of man’s
inherent moral autonomy.” ]

 

If it has a sense of moral
superiority, it is always seeking to lift that with which
it is associated into an equality, — enlarging the bounds
of the elect. |

To turn again to Siegfried’s engaging book, he
repeatedly says that no one can understant the United
States who does not fully appreciate the Puritan spiri

No one can possibly understand the United States
without a profound, almost innate appreciation of their
Puritanism, with its self-satisfaction and its privileged’
relationship with God. One must have one of Crom-
well’s Roundheads or at least an early disciple of Wes-
ley, though you might substitute a pious Lutheran from
Germany, as a great uncle or aunt from the canton of
Neuchatel in Switzerland both pillars of the orthodox
church, full of zeal towards the heathen, vulnerable to
the follies of a Welsh revival, willing to be phycho-
analyzed by Freud and suspicious of French frivolity.

There is one other strain at least, which he omitted, ©
that would give that understanding quite as fully as”
any of these — the man of Scottish or Ulster Irish”
ancestry. When I spoke to M. Siegfried of this, he
said that someone from Ulster had written him to that
effect. Which recalls the comment of another visitor
to America who in his Outline of History gave but
three or four lines to the great American whose name
this College bears. Mr. Wells said of George Wasl-
ington that he was a “conspiciously indolent man,”
which must have led many a reader to wortder what he-
would have done had he been an industrious man. 1

 

7 H_E Bis tes ae Oe
ed Mr. Wells why he had said that and his answer
was that what he had meant to say was that Washing-
ton was a ‘politically indolent man,” but that even that
mment he would omit in the next edition. I hope
; a M. Siegfried will amend his statement in the later
editions of his excellent study of America at her com-
ing of age, to include a Scottish or Scotch-Irish ances-
try as endowing one to understand America. I hope

that some day he will come to this valley.

There is a tombstone, I have read, in this valiey of
Virginia, which, as Mr. James Truslow Adams remarks,
“summed up the part which the Presbyterian refugees
ef Scottish ancestry were to play in the destiny (he
calls it, — the predestiny, we would say) of the two
hemispheres.” The epitaph runs: “Here lies the
remains of James Lewis, who slew the Irish lord,
settled Augusta County, located the town of Staunton
and furnished five sons to fight the battle of the Amer-
ican Revolution.” But Mr. Adams has not carried
the predestiny of the epitaph to its conclusion. ‘There
should be added to this brief biography in which the
story of a single but typical life is told, this sentence:
“provided a birthplace for Woodrow Wilson, chief
author of the Covenant of the League of Nations,” for
he was born a son of a Scotch-Irish Presbyterian clergy-
man and a Scottish mother in the very town which
James Lewis “located.”

When a University student, I was present at a
session of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church South, of which Thomas Wilson, father of
Woodrow, was for many years Stated Clerk, when the
uncle of Woodrow Wilson, Thomas Woodrow. was on
trial for heretical teaching, as he had taught that Adam
was not created immediately out of the dust of the
earth. I can still see this stooped, long-bearded man,
standing before that great gathering of men, most of
them descendants of forebears who had come from
Scotland and North Ireland, likening himself to Galileo
and pleading for his ecclesiastical life. ‘The Assembly,
agreeing with one of the elders expressed himself as
believing that Adam was created out of the dust “in-
stanter,”’ did so with a loyalty to the faith of their
fathers upon which they would not let science lay what
they thought was an impious hand.

At that very time, only a few blocks away, the
nephew, my teacher, Woodrow Wilson, was preparing
all unconsciously for the making of a new chapter in
the history tf America, — beyond that which he was
Writing in his academic life.

I shall always think of this glorious valley, what-
ver the form or ritual of the faith which is preached
and practiced here, as the place of God’s elect, predes-
tinated to lead on in furthering the will of God in the
Earth, — pioneers in enlarging the Kingdom of the
elect. And I congratulate you, Mr. President, that
you are to be one of its leaders.

I

Me Ae GG Aoode Be eee

W. & L. GLEE CLUB PRAISED

“The Virginia Musician”, bulletin of the Virginia
Federation of Music Clubs; speaking of a “Choral
Luncheon”, given by the Chamber of Commerce of
Roanoke to the Virginia Federation in session there
in June, has the following to say of the Washington
and Lee Glee Club: |

“The Washington and Lee Glee Club of Lexing-
ton, Va., arrived in time for this luncheon, and re-
ceived a tremendous ovation for their splendid sing-
ing, which was a surprise and delight to all present.
After two or three fine numbers which included an
Irish folk song, the Praetorius ‘Lo, How a Rose E’er
Blooming’ and one or two others, the boys were forced
to sing another group; and by urgent request, included
the famous ‘Washington and Lee Swing.’ Mr. John
Graham proved himself an efficient choral director
and an equally good speaker when called upon.for an
impromptu speech.”

“The concert by the Hollins and Washington and
Lee choruses under the direction of Mr. Erich Rath
represented the consummation of one of the chief aims
of the I*ederation—the co-ordination and co-operation
of men’s and women’s college choral groups. The
concert was held in the Little Theatre at Hollins, and
a large audience gave enthusiastic evidence of their
appreciation of the program.

“The big thrill came when the curtain parted for
the third number, to disclose the Hollins and Wash-
ington and Lee choruses on the stage together for
Greig’s ‘Landsighting.’ Under Mr. Erich Rath’s di-
rection, these young singers gave of their best; and the
audience found it very good indeed—so good that they
received an ovation.

“R. C. Ammerman, violinist of Washington and
Lee, played Svendsen’s “Romance”, with Miss Emily
Penick at piano.

“Then the Washington and Lee Glee Club came
in for a rousing welcome in a group of three numbers
directed by Mr. John Graham: ‘Over the Steppe’ by
Gretchaninoff ; “The Galway Piper’ (which had to be
repeated), an Irish Folk song, arranged by Davidson;
‘Drinking Song’ from “The Student Prince’, by Rom-
berg. |
“The final group was given by the mixed chorus
again, with Mr. Rath directing, the number being
Clokey’s ‘If I but Knew’ and ‘Hymn of Thanks.’ ”

re.

FRATERNITIES PLEDGE

The twenty fraternities at Washington and Lee
pledged about two hundred men during the rushing
season this fall. This number constitutes nearly two-
thirds of the entire freshman class.

“)
VV

James IX. Humphreys, ’22, is operating the Prince
Charles Garage at l’ayetteville, N. C.

[ 27 ]

eee A LV

I

MAGA ZzZ#ts Nae

 

GREGORY ELECTED TO HIGH COURT

Herbert Bailey Gregory, LL.B., ’11, was elected
by the General Assembly to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia, February 1, 1930.

Judge Gregory is the youngest member of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals. He was graduated from Wash-
ington and Jee with the famous Class of ‘11, was a

tice of his legal opinions and his eminent fairness to
During

the time he was judge of the lesser courts of the state

all the attorneys who practiced in his courts.

he was called upon by the Governors of the Common-

wealth to sit for the Judges of other courts and held

courts in fifty-two counties, to the satisfaction of all
parties who came before those courts.

Judge Gregory is a loyal alumnus of Washington

anc Ilee and follows the Generals with an un-

 

 

 

He is a
true Virginia gentleman, and unspoiled by his

flagging interest in all their sports.

quick rise to his position of trust.

-- 0 -=--— )y-———- ——

ALUMNI AND FACULTY REPRESENT

At the inauguration of Dr. Francis Pend-
leton Gaines as President of Washington and
Lee on October 25, eight of the representatives
of colleges and universities who were present
were alumni of Washington and Lee. ‘These
were Matthew White Paxton, Jr., ‘18, repre-
senting Yale; William Taylor Thom, Jr., °13,
Princeton; Mulford Stough, ’11,
Dickinson College; LeRoy C. Bar-
rett, 97, representing Trinity College; J. Hern-
dren Gorrell, ’88, representing Wake Forest;
Douglas S. Anderson, ’90, representing ‘Tulane
University of which he is Dean; Charles Wat-
kins, ’09, representing Carnegie Institute of
Technology, where he is assistant to the Presi-
dent; and William M. Brown, ’14, representing
Atlantic University of which he is President.

Professor R. W. Dickey of the Physics de-
partment, who is an alumnus of the class of 710,
is representing Johns Hopkins University, where
he received his doctor’s degree.

 

representing
representing

In adition to Dr. Dickey, five faculty mem-
bers acted as representatives of their alma
maters. Dr. Edgar F. Shannon represented
both Harvard and Centre College. Dr. James
l.. Howe, representing Amherst; Dr. D. B.
Easter, representing Randolph-Macon College;
Dr. W. G. Bean representing the University of
Alabama; and Mr. Laurence Watkins repre-

 

 

HERBERT BAILEY GREGORY

member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity and Phi Delta
Phi legal fraternity.

Judge Gregory made his rise from a practicing
attorney to the Supreme Court of Appeals during a
period of seven years. He was appointed Judge of
the Circuit Court of the twentieth judicial circuit on
March 1, 1923, and succeeded Judge W. W. Moffatt
to the Court of Law and Chancery for the City of Ro-
anoke, Virginia, Sept, 7, 1926.

Judge Gregory's rapid advancement to this exalted
position is directly attributed to the accuracy and jus-

senting Syracuse University, are the other
faculty the distinguished
gathering at the inauguration.

members among

 

ft)
VF

YOUR SUBSCRIPTION EXPIRES

On the envelope in which this magazine is mailed,
subscribers will see a date opposite their names. This
date indicates when the subscription expires. In going
over the list, the Alumni Office has made allowance for
any issues the subscriber might have missed by irregular
publication.

 

   
 

— es eo eS en oe
_ «

, eT. ere oo

eT

— ee a a el |
4

*

Aa a a MON

 

a oe
——
CAMPUS ROAD COMPLETE

The new concrete road leading from Jefferson
Street through the Washington and Lee Campus to
Letcher Avenue, has been turned over to the Univer-
sity by Professor Hale Houston, who has been super-

intending the work.

This road replaces the old macadam road which
ran through the campus, but takes a different route.
The old roadway, which passed close to the rear of
the Chapel on a very dangerous curve, has been closed
and the space sown in grass. The section of road im-
mediately inside the Memorial Gateway has been util-
ized as a parking place for cars of visitors to the Chap-

el.

The new concrete road enters the campus at a
int fifty yards north of the memorial gateway, op-
ite the Beta Theta Pi fraternity house, and runs up

the hill with a reasonable grade to meet the line of the
old road north of the chapel. Heavy stone retaining
walls hold the road on the lower side of the bank on
the upper side. A walkway follows the upper side of
the road. The new roadway is twenty-four feet wide
with an eighteen inch curb. Concrete has also been laid
to the top of the hill on the alley-way between the res-
idences of Dean Harry D. Campbell and Dr. Jas. L.
Howe leading to the rear of the campus. ‘The entire
improvement was made by the University. It is 730
feet long.

OO)
ae

STUDENT BODY OFFICERS, 1930-31

The student body officers for the session 1930-31,
who were elected during the Spring Student Body Elec-
tions last April, are now well into their various types of
duties. ‘The elections resulted as follows: President of
the Student Body, O. J. Wilkinson, Phi Kappa Psi,
Columbus, Ohio; Vice-President of the Student Body,
W. C. Sugg, Phi Delta Theta, Fayetteville, ‘Tennessee ;
Secretary and Treasurer of the Student Body, B. M.
Ayars, Bridgetown, New Jersey; President of Finals,
C.W. Day, Sigma Chi, Tulsa, Oklahoma; President
of Fancy Dress Ball, W. H. Tallyn, Lambda Chi AI-
Pha, Scranton, Pennsylvania; Editor of the Ring-tum
P hi, J. W. Barger, Delta Tau Delta, Keyser, West

irginia; [Editor of ‘The Southern Collegian, J. B.
Crane, Alpha Chi Rho, Washington, D. C.; Editor of
the Calyx, W. O. Thomas, Beta Theta Pi, Bedford,

'rginia; Business Manager of the Ring-tum Phi,

“ry Burn, Alpha Tau Omega, Birmingham, Alaba-
Ma; Business Manager of the Southern Collegian, M.
a Louis, Phi Epsilon Pi, Washington, D. C.; Busi-
“SS Manager of the Calyx, J. W. Devine, Sigma Al-
r Epsilon, Lynchburg, Virginia; Cheerleader,

Mart Sanders, Arcades Club, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

Pe ae” A eee

PAUL ROCKWELL WRITES

Paul A. Rockwell, ’11, spent last summer in Ashe-
ville, N. C., his first visit to the United States in five
years. He has a son, Kiffin Yates Rockwell, now
two and a half years old. Mr. Rockwell has recently
finished a War Book,--“American Fighters in the
Foreign Legion,” which is being published by Hough-
ton Mifflin Company of Boston. He has a travel and
adventure book about Morocco almost completed. Mr.
Rockwell will return to Paris in the fall, his address
will be 51 rue Saint-Placide, Paris (6e) France.

He writes as follows:

Dear Mr. Young:

Thank you indeed for your good letter, and the
copy of the Alumni Magazine, both of which reached
me several days ago. I have, got in touch with “Uncle
Dan” Owen, and have ordered some of his hams.

1 have noticed with regret that few or no boys
from Asheville are at W. and L. now. In my day,
there were anywhere from five to ten of us who went
up there from here every year. It might interest you
for the Alumni Magazine to know that the two local
War Veterans Posts are named for Washington and
lee men, who were killed in the War: Kiffin Rock-
well Post of the American Legion, and the Lawrence-
agg Malloy Post of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
All three of those boys belonged to the Sigma Phi
Epsilon chapter at W. and L,, they were in college to-
gether, and were the only men Virginia Epsilon chap-
ter of S. P. E.. lost in the World War. Ruffner Camp-
bell, W. and L,., 1913, is one of Asheville’s leading
lawyers; his father, Rey. R. F. Campbell, is pastor of
our Presbyterian Church, and a loyal W. and L. alum-
nus (a brother of Dean Harry Campbell.)

My book, “American Fighters in the Foreign
Legion,” will be off the press soon. I have asked
Messrs. Houghton Mifflin to send you a copy.

I expect to be in Lexington early in October, and
look forward to meeting you.

Wishing you every success in your new post, be-
lieve me,

Sincerely yours,

PAUL A. ROCKWELL.

 

“y
Vv

Mr. Frank Nighswonger, ’89, is serving his eighth
year as Commissioner of the City of Wichita, Kansas.
Mr. Nighswonger also served one term as Mayor of
Wichita.

=
Vv

Emmett W. McCorkle, Jr., ’26, a Power Kngi-
neer connected with the Kentucky and West Virginia
Department of the Appalachian Power Company has
written some articles for the Electrical World, one of
the foremost publications in this country, which have
attracted considerable attention.

29 |

tis .B A he RS ee ae

  
 

MAG A Z Iam

 

Alumni Groups Begin Activities

RICHMOND ALUMNI HOLD MEETING

One of the most successful meetings ever held by
Washington and Lee Alumni in Richmond was the Fall
Dinner of the Washington and Lee Club of Richmond
given at the University Club on the evening of Sep-
tember 23rd. This meeting, announced in advance by
Dr. A. A. Houser, head of the Alumni in Richmond,
as an “informal football gathering,” prior to the com-
ing to Richmond on October 24th of a Washington
and Lee football team for the first time in thirteen
years, was heavily attended and highly enjoyable, near-
ly fifty Alumni being present. “Cy” Young was there
and gave an enlightening account of his efforts during
the past few months to bring new students of a high
calibre of intelligence and standing to our Alma Mater,
and he also alluded to the cheery football prospects at
Washington and Lee next year and the year after.

Rk. ‘T. Johnson, of the Law School faculty, hither-
to unknown to the Alumni in Richmond, proved to be
an after-dinner speaker of rare ability and made a big
hit with his witty and inspiring address. “Dick’’ Smith,
who was greeted by many old friends and associates,
then addressed the Club on the subject of football, tell-
ing the Alumni frankly and most interestingly what
we've got, what we haven’t got, and what we hope to
have in the way of a football team. After a short talk
by General Jo Lane Stern, who, by the way, was a stu-
dent of Washington College during the presidency of
General Lee, the meeting was thrown open for a gen-
eral discussion of plans for the approaching Washing-
ton and Lee-Richmond College game in Richmond, this
discussion being led by “Dick”? Smith.

The Washington and Lee Club of Richmond, now
one of the most active Alumni associations, has a mem-
bership of 53 active Alumni, all of whom are intensely
interested in the University and what is going on there.
It includes in its membership some of Washington and
Lee’s most prominent Alumni, a few of whom are
Mr. Samuel H. Younge and General Jo Lane Stern,
students at Washington College under General Lee;
Judge Louis S. Epes, Dr. W. L. Carson, and Judge
George E. Peery, of the Board of Trustees of the Uni-
versity; Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, representative of
the Alumni, Inc.; Hon. C. H. Morrissette, State ‘Tax
Commissioner; and Hon. James H. Price, Lieut.-Gov-
ernor of the Commonwealth.

‘The officers of the Washington and Lee Club of
Richmond are President, Dr. A. A. Houser, physician ;
Vice-President, Otta M. Stumpf, attorney-at-law ;
Secy.-Treas., Joseph E. Birnie, Assistant » Cashier
Morris Plan Bank of Virginia.

[ 30 |

  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

YOUNG AND SMITH AT SUPPER

An invitation came from Lynchburg a week
fore the W. & L.-Hampden-Sidney game, Sept. 2
inviting Dick Smith and the Alumni Secretary
Alumni Supper the evening preceding the game, ©
got out of our football togs, Friday, Sept. 26th
mediately after practice and drove over to the Hill)
just in time for a delightful informal affair. :

The gathering was not large and no question
colossal import were taken up, but forty or fifty
partook of food and drink and made merry.
to heart talks were had and football ethics were f
indulged in. |

The Alumni Secretary suggests that many of th
informals be given in the various alumni organizati
for few formals and many informals will appeal
men. } -

The new Lynchburg president, ‘“Gip” Woodso
making a dandy executive. He has started work
a bang, and with such men as Jimmie Caskie,
Ramsey, Carter Glass, Lynch Christian and others t
association can go far. It is predicted that it wi
one which can well be imitated in any alumni field

It is good to have a group of level headed, interes
men so near at hand, for they come to Lexington oft
and give our drooping spirits the ever-needed_ back
that enables us to carry on.

fy

MEETING OF LEXINGTON, VA., ALUMI

A large and enthusiastic meeting of the Lexin
ton Alumni was held in the Alumni Rooms, Tuesd
evening, October 21st, at eight o’clock.

The following officers were elected:

IE. L. Graham, President.

Stuart Moore, Vice-President. |

Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., Secretary-Treasurer.

After the election of officers and the transacti
of several matters of business, the meeting resolved
self into an informal smoker, which was very much @
joyed by everyone.

fy.
SI

Douglas S. Perry, ’23, is now in the Chicago ¢
fice (Insurance Exchange Branch) of the Travele
Insurance Co. |

i ade
Vv

John Meredith Graham, ’90, was elected Pres
dent of the Georgia Bankers Association on June
1930,

ty
Vv

Hugh Fontaine, ’14, is now manager of the Ha
Payne Whitney farms near Lexington, Ky.

ow wa

  

OR

logical tim

 

I

bee gs OA 2 iy Ee

 

my E A LU _M_N
—
GANIZATION OF ALUMNI CHAPTERS

orite date for Alumni Meetings, atid certainly the most
e for the organization of local Alumni Chap-

“The Alumni Office will be most glad to give any
information, or to aid in any way in the organization of
such chapters.

There should be local Alumni Chapters in every
city or community where we have twenty-five or more
alumni. Organize now, planning to have your meet-
jng on January 19th, Lee’s birthday, or the 22nd of
February Washington's birthday.

diciieelt a

THE GIANT OF THE WESTERN WORLD

Francis P. Miller, 714, and his wife Helen Hill
Miller, have just published “The Giant of the Western
World,” Wm. Morrow & Co.

The book is a timely and thoughtful discussion of
some of the implications of America’s position as the
strongest world power, and her new determination to
play a leading economic role in international affairs.

Mr. Miller was for several years chairman of the
International Y. M. C. A. work among the students of
the world with headquarters at Geneva.

Mr. and Mrs. Miller are now living at Fairfax,
Va.

nail

PRESIDENT ADDRESSES CONVENTIONS

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, President of Wash-
ington and Lee, has been asked to address the State
Convention of the Daughters of the American Revo-
lution, in Lynchburg, on November third. He will
speak on “’Ihe Modern Memorial Mood.”

“Education in a Changing Economic Order,” will
be the subject of an address he will deliver to the South-
ern Editorial Conference, meeting at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, early in
November. Dr. Gaines will preside at this conference
by the request of the committee.

ania te
as

CHICAGO BOYS HONOR LEE

Six hundred boys, students of Lane Technical
School, Chicago, contributed to a memorial wreath
which was placed on the tomb of General Lee in Lee
Memorial Chapel, on the 60th anniversary of the death
of the Southern Chieftain.

The wreath was put in place by L. C. Borland, a
graduate of the Lane school and now a student at
Washington and Lee University, on Sunday after-
noon, October 12, at six o’clock.

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President of the Univer-
sity, accepted the gift on behalf of the university.

“Tt is a thoughtful and altogether lovely courtesy
that these boys should offer a wreath to the memory

January 19th, General Lee’s Birthday, is the fav-

of Lee.” President Gaines said. “Living in a state
remote from Lee’s Virginia, in a state in which pre-
vailing historical sentiment does not always confirm
Lee’s political judgments, these young men have evi-
dently paid tribute to Lee the man, and a rare quality
of manliness prompted this gift.

“Tt is our hope that these Chicago boys who have
thus manifested a generous interest in Lee may draw
from the story of his life some inspiration toward
those powers of character which alone can make life
worthy.”

ae
~~

DOCTOR TUCKER NOW A DEAN

Dr. Robert Henry Tucker, professor of econom-
ics, and for six months acting president of the Uni-
versity has been made Dean of the College.

The appointment was made by the executive com-
mittee of the Board of Trustees of Washington and
Lee and went into effect with the opening of the pres-
ent session.

The title of dean of the college is a revival of a
former position in the administrative staff of the Uni-
versity, but Doctor T ucker’s work will be new. It will
not be in conflict with the office of Dr. Harry D.
Campbell, dean of the University. The new dean will
continue his duties as head of the department of eco-
nomics. |

Governor John Garland Pollard recently appoint-
ed a continuing commission of five members to study
county government reform in Virginia, of which Dr.
Tucker is a member.

The commission was created by the 1930 general
assembly to draft and recommend to the 1932 assembly
a general law setting forth optional reforms of county
governments ; to study comparative county governments
in Virginia; to analyze and interpret statistics as to
the comparative cost of government in several coun-
ties. and to furnish the facts which it gathers to the
citizens of the several counties.

Dr. Tucker was formerly chairman of the State
Industrial commission, a member of the commission
on simplification of state government, appointed by
Governor Trinkle, as well as the Reed simplification
commission appointed by Governor Byrd.

ce , |
~~.)

Francis P. Miller, 14, was invited recently to go
to South Africa to serve as Chairman of a Confer-
ence to consider relations between the European and
native races. ‘The Conference was held June 27-July
3 at Fort Hare College, Cape Province. It was at-
tended by representatives of the Bantu, English and
Dutch racial groups and dealt with the economic, eth-
ical and religious aspects of the present situation.

Te |
V

Daniel B. Straley, 1911, Law School, is practic-
ing law at Crown Point, Indiana.

[ 31 ]

14d A> a ae aN

Baker Suggested For Presidency

(Reprinted from the New York Times, Oct. 1, 1930)

“Mark Sullivan in The Herald Tribune of today
presents a strong case against Mr. Roosevelt as the
Democratic Presidential candidate in 1932. On the
other hand, it appears from this article that the only
reason for considering Mr. Roosevelt for the nomina-
tion is his ability to carry New York State.

“Tt is almost a truism that a disaffected people will
vent their feelings upon the party in power, whether
that party is responsible for existing conditions or not.
‘The country has gone along during the past two ad-
ministrations quite serenely and guilelessly in the be-
lief that the gods would not cease smiling on them.
Quite suddenly they were brought up with a jolt.

“With that jolt came a crisis, not only economic,
but an intellectual crisis as well. It was a jolt such as
to force the people to think and ponder and to take
stock, saying, ‘Quo vadis ?’

“The result of that stock-taking will manifest it-
self this November in the Congressional elections and
in the next Presidential election. At these elections
the people are going to look for real men and real lead-
ers. They are showing today that they are no more
satisfied with the platitudes and evasions of our pres-
ent-day leaders.

“As a result it behooves both parties to put for-
ward their strongest men in 1932. A man whose sole
qualification is his problematical ability to carry one
State is not the leader the people are now searching
for.

“So far as the Democratic party is concerned, they
would be well advised to nominate a man who will not
carry his own state, but who is admired and respected in
all the States. ‘That man must be one who is not now
actively engaged in politics. He must be a man who
comes to the fore with a fresh mind and an honest and
courageous attitude, and one who is not committed nor
tied to entangling alliances. (This, of course, refers to
domestic, not foreign, matters. )

“Such a man is Newton D. Baker, former Secre-
tary of War in Wilson’s Cabinet and referred to as the
ablest man in Wilson’s Cabinet. Mr. Baker lives in
Ohio, an important State. By birth he is a Southern-
er. He is not an extremist, and brings to any prob-
lem a clear, honest and analytical mind. His entire
life has been a fight for liberalism.

“Tt is not essential that in order to win an election
a man must carry New York. Wilson won without it.
Mr. Baker can carry Ohio, the mid-Western States,
and, what is now important, the South. At the same
time, while not of Wall Street, he is highly respected

[| 32 |

  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

M A G.A Z Iam

and admired by bankers throughout the country.
a man who has received the acclaim of the leader
our country, Republicans as well as Democrats.

“The South will not take kindly to a candi
from New York. The issue of Tammany is,
or wrongly, stronger today than it was in 1928
the Democrats are to win they must present to the
ple the best they have. Mr. Baker is the best
have.

(Signed) ELLIOTT L. RISKIND:

stalin
wes fe

EIGELBACH, ’28, WINS TITLE

Sol Metzer, Sports Writer of the Albany Ever
News, writes as follows: ;

“A powerful drive of 325 yards entitles C.-
“Chick” Ejigelbach of Schenectady to have his nz
engraved on the Sol Metzer trophy of the 1930°
ional driving champion. This trophy is awarded
nually by the writer to the winner of a series of
and sectional contests conducted all over the Un
States by a group of prominent newspapers.

Figelbach represented the Capitol Dictrict (Alb |
Troy, Schenectady) in the national driving champi
ship, after winning this district event conducted
The Knickerbocker Press and Albany Evening Ney

“A margin of three yeards separated Figlet
and the second place winner, Stuart Schloss, mem
of the Hillcrest Club of Cincinnati.

“Albany golfers were not surprised at the vict
of Eigelbach, but they were amazed at the tremende
distance. Ejigelbach had driven over 300 yards at le
five times on the Edison Club course. 4

“The new national driving champion is twen
eight and was a star athlete at Washington and Lee
baseball and basketball. |

“Although longer drives may have been made !
individuals under varying conditions, Eiglebach’s
under the nervous tension of championship compe
tion is most praiseworthy. Each contestant was |
lowed only three drives and these drives had to be
straight as an arrow. The out of bounds markers
only fifty yards apart, so the slightest hook or sh
on a hard hit ball would have kicked it out.” |

Ly
VV

While remaining pastor of the Prospect St
Presbyterian Church, Trenton, N. J., William Thon
as Hanzsche, B. A., °13, D. D., ’28, has been for t
past year editor-in-chief of the Presbyterian Mag
zine, the official monthly magazine of the Presbyte
ian Church in the U. S. A., with offices at 156 Fifi
Ave., New York. 4

mH B Ae MN

Sim Gs A 2 2 2

 

 

D Aca

 

 

el.

HUMPHREY ROBINSON KEEBLE, B.A., ’02

H. Bob Keeble, 02 died from injuries received in
a gas explosion, Sept. 1, 1930, and was buried in Abil-
ene, | exas.

\Mr. Keeble formerly lived at Abilene where he
served as justice of the peace, county judge and later
as county attorney. On his retirement from the lat-
ter post he became a partner in the law firm of Kirby,
King and Keeble. In 1921 he moved to Houston, Tex-
as and was associated with John Sargent. One month
later he suffered a stroke of paralysis.

\lr. Keeble leaves a widow and one daughter, Bet-
tie Rob Keeble, both of Houston.

\lr. Keeble received his A.B. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1902. He was valedictorian of his
class; editor-in-chief of the Calyx and also of the
Southern Collegian. Upon his graduation he re-
ceived the Santini Medal.

JOHN CUNNINGHAM DILLON
An Appreciation

l‘riday, July 18, John Cunningham Dillon, son of
the late Col. Edward and Frances Polk Dillon, passed
away at his home in Indian Rock, suddenly from a
heart attack. He is survived by his brothers, Lucius
Polk and Frank C. Dillon, and his sisters, Mrs. Robert
Scott Spillman of Charleston, West Virginia, and Miss
Frances Dillon.

\lr. Dillon was senior warden of Grace Church,
sotetourt County, and for many years before that, a
vestryman. His interest in Grace Church was two-fold,
for he was an earnest churchman and Col. and Mrs.
Dillon had been among the founders and largest con-
tributors to the building in 1895. His unceasing in-
terest in all that concerned the welfare of the church
Was a large factor in its success. He sang in the choir,
was often a delegate to the church conventions and,
though a very busy man, never was absent from a serv-
ice unless from serious cause.

To those who knew him, his loss is irreparable. He
is mourned alike by his employees, his friends, and his
family. Cultivated, musical, a charming companion,
but above all and beyond all a steadfast friend, to
Whom none ever went with problem or distress without
help, more than was asked. His going leaves a void
that cannot be filled, but a memory that will enrich the
lives of all who knew him.

“May light eternal shine upon him.”

‘rom the Southwestern Episcopalian, Aug. 1930.

PARK B. LAMBERTON, 1906-10

Park B. Lamberton, ’06-'10, died in Sante Fe,
New Mexico on July 9, 1930, aged 42 years. He was
a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity and served in
the World War.

Mr. Lamberton has been actively engaged in the
oil business in Oklahoma since 1911. He went to

 

PARK B. LAMBERTON

Sante Fe in February, 1929 on account of ill health.
Funeral services were held in Zelienople, Pa., his old
home. Rev. J. W. Claudy, ’09, took part in the serv-
ices and several of his former classmates were in at-
tendance.
Mr. Lamberton is survived by his mother, Mrs.
W. J. Lamberton and two sisters of Zelienople, Pa.,
a brother and his widow, Virginia S. Lamberton of
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

COL. ROBERT G. PAXTON’ U.S.A.

Col. Robert G. Paxton, ex ’83, U. S. A., retired,
died Friday, Sept. 12, at “Mountain View’, the fam-
ily home near Buena Vista, Va.

Col. Paxton was retired from the service on ac-
count of ill health in 1913, but again resumed his

[ 33

ie ane A Soe ee

duties when the United States entered the World War.
At the close of the World War he was retired with
the rank of colonel.

There were conferred upon him the following
decorations as a soldier; Indian, Spanish-American,
Cuban and World War medals.

Col. Paxton was born in Rockbridge County, Va.,
Sept. 19, 1865. He entered Washington and Lee Uni-
versity as a student in the fall of 1883 and a year later
entered the United States Military academy at West
Point as a cadet. Graduating in 1887, he entered the
army.

—_——- -——— -—_—_-_——_—

JOHN R. HEARNE DIES
Palestine, Texas, Sept. 27, 1930.
‘lo The President,
Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Va.
Dear Sir:
It is with regret I inform you of the passing of

Jno. R. Hearne, on Feb. 10th, 1930.

Your bulletin comes to my desk and always re-
calls the pleasure he received’ from them. He always
took pride in his having been there and if I remember
correctly, his Latin examination papers were on Gen-
eral Lee’s desk at the time General Lee was taken ill.

Wishing you the success you deserve, [ am, most
respectfully,

my father,

BEN W. HEARNE, (Son.)

JOHN BOWYER, ’67

John Bowyer, '67, died on August Ist last, in Ab-
ilene, Texas. He was one of our oldest alumni. Mr.
Bowyer had been a successful lawyer and a useful
citizen. He was a native of Lexington, being a son of
J. Hubard Bowyer and a grandson of Capt. John

sowyer, of Thornhill.

CHARLES B. ANTRIM, ’77

Charles B. Antrim, ’77, died recently in Rich-
mond, Virginia at the age of seventy-five. His father,
Major C. W. Antrim followed General Lee to Lex-
ington from Waynesboro immediatedly after the civil
war. educating his sons at Washington college. Mr.
Antrim was in the wholesale business in Richmond,
and for many years was prominent in social and com-
mercial circles.

WILLIAM H. WHITE, ’63

William H. White, ’63, one of Washington and
Lee’s oldest alumni, died at his home in Lexington,
September 20th. He was a student at Washington
College during the Civil War and left college in ’63 to
enter the Confederate Army. Not long afterwards
he was assigned duty as a member of the Rockbridge

ie

I

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

M A GA 24 i
artillery, and with that famous battery was paroled
Appomattox. With him passed the last Rockbri
Confederate of Lexington.

ARCH SPROUL WHITE, ’77 ...

Arch Sproul White, ’77, a leading citizen |
Lynchburg, Va., and an alumnus of the Class of ’
died in Lynchburg Thursday, Sept. 25th. Mr.
was a native of Lexington.

He was a man of fine business capacity and ¢
cupied an important position in the business life |
Lynchburg.

Mr. Arch White was a cousin of Mr. William |
White, Mr. Arch White’s father being William
and Mr. William H. White’s father being Willia
George White, both merchants of Lexington.

RUSSELL H. ALLEN

Russell H. Allen, 1901, L.B., died August, 193
Mr. Allen had practiced law in Elkins, W. Va., ff
many yeats.

MERGERS

 

 

 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

PEARSE—PENICK

Miss Emily P. Penick, daughter of Mr. Paul 1]
Penick, ‘Treasurer of the University, and Frederic
M. P. Pearse, of Metuchen, N. J., were married 4
the Lexington Presbyterian Church on Saturday, A
ust 30th. Mr. Pearse has been a resident of Lexing
ton for the past five years, while a student at the Uni
versity, and the friends of the two very popular peop! ,
crowded the old church to capacity.

The church was beautifully decorated. The vestet
choir sang the Bridal Chorus from Lohengrin for th
processional and “O Perfect Love” by Barnley durin
the ceremony with the sevenfold Amen at the close. —

Following the ceremony a large number of guest
were entertained at a reception at the home of
bride’s parents, refreshments being served on the law
which was lighted with Japanese lanterns.

Miss Penick was graduated from Hollins Colleg
and later studied music in New York. Mr. Pearce re
ceived his B. A. degree from Washington and Lee a
year ago. ‘They will remain in Lexington for a yeat
while Mr. Pearce completes his Law course at the Uni-
versity, after which he will enter the practice of Law
with his father at Newark, N. J.

TEAFORD—CROUCH

Announcement has been made of the marriage at
Princeton, W. Va., on August 27th of Miss Ella Mar-
garet Crouch, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Crouch
of Roanoke, and Mr. H. St. G. Teaford, ’28, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank B. Teaford of Kerrs Creek,

 

 

 

tT H E ASL .U)sM NG MipA+G,A Za sw #
BISSELL—LATANE

A Paris cable announced the marriage in Paris of
Miss Elinor Junkin Latane, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
John H. Latane, of Baltimore to Williams S. Bissell,
of Farmington, Conn. The civil ceremony was first
performed at the city hall of the sixteenth ward in
Paris; a religious ceremony followed at the American
Protestant cathedral. Dr. Latane was in Paris and
attended the wedding. ‘The bride was graduated from
Bryn Mawr college and also studied in France. The
groom is ason of Mr. Richard M. Bissell, president of
the Hartford Insurance Company. Dr. Latane was
formerly Professor of History at Washington and Lee
University, and is now Dean of Johns-Hopkins Uni-
versity.

WHITE—MILLER

Dr. Reid White, Jr., son of Dr. and Mrs. Reid
White, of Lexington, and Miss Alice Marion Miller,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Miller of Montclair,
N. J., were married at the summer home of the bride’s
parents at Pocano Lake, Pa., August 28th. The mar-
riage took place in the deep woods surrounding the
summer cottage.

Miss Miller was graduated a year ago from Smith
College. She is a great niece of Mrs. Harry D. Camp-
bell.

Dr. White received his academic degree at Wash-
ington and Lee University and studied medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania. He is now practicing his
profession in Lexington, and is associated with
father, Dr. Reid White, as University Physician.

his

THOMAS—WHITE

John Newton Thomas, ’24, Bedford, Virginia, was
married to Miss Nancy Inez White, on Thursday, Aug-
ust 28, 1930, in Marion, Ala.

ry
art. 4

TOWILL—DUNLAP

Announcement has been received of the marriage
of Miss Harriet Somerville Dunlap to John Bell To-
will, 29, on Wednesday, October 8th, at Keokuk, Iowa.

 

Dede Vid odd: Niedded

 

 

Thomas Dewey Davis, Jr., born July 17, 1930,

Richmond, Va., parents Dr. and Mrs. 'T. Dewey Davis,
ive

Benno Marcuse Forman, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Isadore Forman, ’09.

‘red Oates, °12, is the proud father of a pair of
twins (gives him four children in all).

PermsSONATS

Pittsburgh alumni who frequently meet inform-
ally at each others’ offices and discuss W. and L. of
20 years ago include: Dr. “Bill” Claudy, ’09, Harry
Rectenwald, ’10, “Chuck” Robinson, (C. P.) ’10,
Orange Richardson, ’10, J. C. Whetzel, ’14, and “Red”
Moore, (C. C.) 713. Query: Why not make it an
Alumni Association.

 

Charles A. Tutwiler, ’24, who is practicing law in
Welch, W. Va., was married on August 14, 1930, at
Lexington, Ky., to Miss Evelyn Amerson. ‘The cer-
emony was performed at the Calvary Baptist Church
by Rev. Z. J. Amerson, the father of the bride.

Kenneth Heyl, *19, has purchased the controlling
interest in the long established store of Wieler Bros.
The store, the name of which has been changed to
“Heye & Wilson Sporting Goods Co.” is located at
410, 10th Street, Huntington, W. Va.

Paul Bryant, ’09, is located in Paris as attorney
for the Paris branch of the National City Bank of
New York. He is a member of the interfraternity
club recently organized in Paris, which holds an infor-
mal banquet every two months.

Emmett W. McCorkle, ’26, received his E. I. de-
gree from Cornell in 1929 and since that time has been
employed as Junior Power Engineer by the Kentucky
and West Virginia Power Co., with headquarters at
Ashland, Kentucky.

Joseph G. Davis, Washington and Lee law, 1930,
is connected with the law firm of Simmons and Bar-
ker,—Greenberry Simmons, LL.B., ’27, and Horace
M. Barker, LL.B., ’28.

“Nick” Klein, ’26, composes the legal deparment
of the city of Greenup, Kentucky, being city attorney,
prosecutor, assessor, and custodian of the town hall.

Edward N. Atkinson, ’12, is a prominent lumber
and building supply dealer in Asheville, N. C. He is
married and has a two-year old son.

Charlie Gaines, ’23, is now in Lexington, Ky.,
working in connection with the construction of the
Veterans’ Hospital.

Charles A. Norman, ’18, is Vice President of the
©. H. Berry & Co., retail clothiers, of Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

Carl Holt Smith, ’28, has been traveling exten-
sively in Mexico.

[ 35 |

mS BY 2 es ee ee

Dr. Thomas K. Young, ’20, for the past six and
a half years pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Roanoke, Virginia, has accepted a call to become
pastor of the Idlewild Presbyterian Church at Mem-
phis, Tenn. Before going to Roanoke Dr. Young was
pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian Church, and
during that time attended some of the classes in the
University.

Francis P. Miller, ’14, spent several days with his
mother in Lexington during September. As _ chair-
man of the World Christian Student Federation he
attended a Bantu-European Conference in South
Africa during June. He gave an interesting account
of this conference, of which he was moderator, to an
assembly of students in Lee chapel.

Mr. Miller was recently appointed a part-time lec-
turer at Yale university. More than half of his time
will be devoted to the interests of the World Chris-
tian Student Federation.

Just now he is engaged in building a new home at
Fairfax, Virginia.

As Chief Engineer, Board of Port Commissioners
of New Orleans, Sam Young, "98, is now building
wharves which will cost about $2,000,000. Even with
a job like this he says he is always glad to receive the
Alumni Magazine which he reads from “kiver to “kiv-

99

er.

Charles W. Crush, ’14, who has been re-commis-
sioned in the R. O. T. C. and the National Guard, is a
member of Governor Pollard’s Staff. He is Com-
monwealths’ Attorney of Montgomery county.

John §S. Strahorn, ’25, Associate Professor of
Law at the University of Arkansas, is taking a leave
of absence for 1930-31 to study at the Yale Law
School on a Sterling Research fellowship.

Joe M. Nuckols, ’20, has been transferred from
Huntington, W. Va., to Richmond, Va., as General
Manager of the Richmond office of the Equitable
Life Assurance Association.

Samuel B. Kirby, Jr., ’21, attended summer
school at Northwestern University, Chicago, and now
is holding down his job in the Attorney General’s of-
fice at Frankfort, Ky.

Walter H. Wilcox, B. S., ’29, is with the S. D. War-
ren Co., at Cumberland Mills, Maine. He has entered
Carnegie Tech for advanced work.

EK. G. Hundley, ’26, is with the United States Fi-
delity and Guaranty Trust Co., of Baltimore, Md. He
is doing legal work in the claims department.

[ 36 |

  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
   
  

MAGA Z fam

J. R. Hainline, ’20, is now field representatiy,
the Payne-Baber Coal Co., and is located in Hypt
ton, W. Va., with offices in the Union Bank &
Co. Bldg.

Harmon L,. Lowman, 17, received his Ph.D,
gree in education from the University of Chicage
the last convention, and is now teaching at a te:
college in ‘Texas.

J. Carl Fisher, ’15, was a recent visitor to
ton. He was accompanied by his wife and two daug
ters. He is lighting engineer for the Baltimore G
and Electric Co.

John Drye, ’20, has recently been made a pa mn
in the law firm of Larkin, Rathbone & Perry, atte
neys for the Central Hanover Trust Co., New Yor
City. ;

Carl K. Gilchrist, ’20, is Vice-President of h
Charleston, W. Va., Kiwanis Club. He was marrie
June 22, 1929, to Sarah Esther Mathews, of Charle:
ton.

John Hoffman Sawkins, °12, is Assistant Pre
fessor of Civil Engineering, in charge of Surveyi ,
Department, Drexel Institute, Philadelphia.

Robert P. Ashley, *10, has been appointed Ney
England District Manager, Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company, with headquarters at Boston.

W. H. Drake, 97, of Port Gibson, Miss.,
a recent visitor at the Alumni Building. He was ac-
companied by his four sons. 7
George F. Mitchell, ‘20, has announced the re-—
moval of his law offices to Seven Water Street, Bos-—
ton, Mass., Suite 910.

B. J. Mayer, ’06, Lagrange, Ga., was elected”
President of the Georgia Bar Association at the June, —
1930, convention.

J. P. White, Jr., °26, is engaged in the cotton bus- —
iness in Roswell, New Mexico, being president of the
Roswell Gin Co.

Howard McCain, ’20, is General Superintendent 7
of James McCreary & Co., New York.

Samuel C. Strite, °29, Hagerstown, Md., is a can-
didate for the Legislature on the Republican ticket.

Patrick H. Garvin, ’28, is practicing law in Mar-
quette, Michigan.

 

fH 5 Ad ae MON
—— tt
HAS HE A HOBBY? YES! BOYS!

Continued from Page 5

“That's just one reason I’m proud of being a
preacher's son,” the president smiled.

Reared in an intellectual atmosphere, I*rancis
Pendleton Gaines was ready for his senior year In high
school at twelve. Intellectually, he was in advance of
his years, but physically not as strong as he should
have been. His father took him out of school, and for
three years the boy worked in iron mines and furnaces.
He soon became strong and played second base on the
mining town team.

Rettirning to prep school, Gaines took two years
to finish and play football; then he went to the College
ef Richmond, for a bachelor's degree.

Asked if he prepared for teaching in college, Doc-
tor Gaines said:

“No, I spent half of my college career thinking
about what | would do. When I was graduated some-
one offered me a place in a rural high school. I took
it; liked it; and determined to carry on.”

A ringing door bell interrupted the conversation,
and for ten minutes the president chatted with a stu-
dent caller. Having students in his home is a matter
of daily routine.

“We hope to have every boy in the president’s home
this year,’ he explains.

‘That boy came to my office three times today,
and here he is again tonight.”

“He’s homesick. Never been away before. Begs
ime just to let him go home for a week-end. He lives
in Texas.

“I just told him to show up here for lunch tomor-
row at noon. We're going to make him snap out of it,
and the best start is to put a good meal under his belt.

Doctor Gaines refused to discuss matters of high-
er education, curricular, methods, organization, stand-
ards. He wants to wait a year, to have the time neces-
sary for study of the school’s problems. Meanwhile,
his policy is watchful waiting. Although far more
successful than nine-hundred and ninety-nine men of
his years, he modestly shakes his head when asked to
discuss success, qualifications of a college president,
educational renaissance, and the like.

“No, no! Let’s talk about the boys. I feel I’m
beginning to know them; and I certainly have not had
time to learn the inner workings of the university.”

Perhaps this is why students love the man, mem-
hers of the faculty respect him, and trustees of the in-
stitution are delighted with his beginning,

The president’s wife was to the campus born. She
is the daughter of Dr. J. C. Robert, former dean at
the Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical college.
Pleasant, gracious, wholesome, she is just the kind of
President’s wife students, teachers and people of Lex-
ington want.

anak G&G A Bo 2 mS

 

Although in his thirties, Doctor Gaines is not the
youngest president Washington and Lee has chosen.
William Graham, the first head of the institution was
29 when elected to office and George H. Denny, now
president of the University of Alabama, took the ad-
ministrative reins at Washington and Lee when 32.

ON THE HIGHWAY
Continued from Page 10

“in this little town” were W. and L.. men when send-
ing boys away to school was an extraordinary thing to
do. Only the prominent and wealthy could afford this
luxury and although the business of sending sons to
college has grown universal many prominent men of
Helena, Ark., continue to send their sons to Washing-
ton and Lee. The fact that interests me most is that
these men are continuing to make good. A few of the
thirty or more old men are, Warren Broun, James
Faulkner, Otis Howe, Clark Rabb, and Allien Beall.

Memphis, Tenn., has within its fold, Sammy
Raines, Allen Morgan, John Speed, Maynard Holt,
George Faison, John Faison, Barry Buford and about
100 or more whose names cause the Bluff City’s in-
habitants to “sit up and take notice.” It is quite “the
thing” to go to W. and L,. if you live in Memphis,
Tenn.

From Memphis I went to Louisville where I saw
Bob Hobson and a great many others. ‘The week-end
of October 18th I went again to Kentucky and soon I
hope to be able to attend a large meeting of Kentucky
alumni in Louisville.

Huntington, W. Va., my native city, along with
other West Virginia towns give this good old school
more than its share of loyalty. For our roster has hun-
dreds of West Virginia men who have chosen a Uni-
versity of its sister state, Virginia, rather than the
high ranking Universities of its own and those of bor-
dering states. “Pete” Gibson, John McVey, Selden
Jones, and Walker Long are four men I think of as
being especially interested this summer. Charleston,
the scene of the Washington and Lee-West Virginia
game throws open its doors and makes us feel more
at home than many places within our own borders.
Here are such boosters as Kay Thomas, Joe and Sam
Silverstein, Sherman Ballard, Wirt Donnelly, Johnny
Morrison, Cy Hall, “Tip” Coyle, and Brown Trus-
low. Continuing my jaunt in West Virginia, I went
to Oak Hill where Jack Lewis and Claude Hill gave
me co-operation. Cap’t. Joe Moore and Joe Holt, of
Lewisburg, received me with every courtesy.

And thus I might go on and on telling of men
who made my summer tour so very pleasant and what
I consider profitable. There are others I have not
mentioned who were equally as helpful and I hope
some will feel so slighted that they will write me about

[ 37 |

a Oe Bs. me. EO eee

G

5S E CT 1 oO

 

it. Anything to strike up a correspondence—even to
making men mad.

There is only one way to help your Alma Mater to
grow and that is by growing interested to a man, some
seven thousand strong.

I will be the instrument; will you be the means?

O
PAPER’S NAME WON’T “GO MODERN”
Continued from Page 6

“The Ring-tum Phi will continue to be the Ring-
tum Phi. This was decided at the executive commit-
We would like to see the name changed,
but we've been overruled and we recognize higher
authority.”

tee meeting.

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a
Century

W.& L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

Lee and want to follow the progress that is |
being made about the campus, subscribe to |

Che Ring-tum Phi.

“The University News” carries |

of-cown subscribers Thr Ring-tum Phi is pub- |
lished this year on Tuesday and Friday, thus |
avoiding the layover in the Sunday mails.

Mail your Check for $3.10 to the Ring-

IF

YOU are interested in Washington and j —

a full account of all W. &
L.’s varied activities

TO ASSURE prompt delivery to out- |

 

y fat ae his!

tum Phi, Drawer 899, Lexington, 4
Va., and keep in touch with
Your Alma Mater

 

 

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

For the Sake of Auld Lang |

Order Your Thanksgiving and |

.
"
rs
4
4
+
>
k
.

 

Syne .

CHRISTMAS HAMS

From

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)

Connessieur in Virginia Smoke Cured Hams.

 

 

[ 38 ]

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

i
A
s ‘ y |
a , x val :
7 # " | |
a fi - |
| , i i
; | | | | m ee
is P a s | :
r N « » * % ma J hd ra ar F F
| | | 4 4 of 7 ~
% o . - iM : | . |
P * Ae a : | | | ;
? 7 a ar 4 a“. eo ; : ba
a A. re rs ad a a » od - r
- pr ‘ bs + a s js A
x ee 4, a # ns — . ,
a» . Ae % i. oI 4 , > : P d 7 |
7 ' . ’ 7 a *
a | | | |
s , | | | |
- S 5 * :
F * ; ;
A | ;
a
1 =
a oe
- a
a
‘ j F
ay ;
se : © oe
5 fi ao
; . Ci 7
- : Z é
“es a ¢ m4 '
se rod
ns - ¢
» =
3 ; Ls
s
¢ : |
ad A.
; yy
, > . |
* bs > “ Pa
; r ? Pf R
he, ct * éz |
: . a Cy } |
e« ‘ , ; |
A a a 4 ” ? ) |
- , ; ; 2 ; |
> - . a ° A D . * |
Pa a ~ a c 5 : ;
To we 2 7 ;
af . a
i?

        

-
_ - ~<,' -

  

rr
¥ ?
mee :
oe @. p :

      

0

| : -_. yi -. wr
. Ere . , Sr aE oes
Peet oh sapere a : . a : we Le ae Lee Soe
e pi is : o 7 ; , a Z ea
we iis i + : ; %

 

aS

é
* . -

 

 
  

NATURAL BRIDGE

IN THE. HEART OF THE BLUE kID@S

On Lands
Granted
in 1774
By King

George Ill
to
Thomas

Jefterson

 

a? Me : : lad . . “ae v4 4 cf
; > ; ; : . : “ ‘-, * f b a é ee
~s . . eel wv. ay “
IP ae Vik eed : iia FP OR ME 3
oem on Y + - Ss st . ~ ~——.*
: ‘ ‘ ° p> : Bact —_*. ~ . s : 2 7
2 ' ; ~ . ox. : A. ined “a Je o

NATURE 63° MASIERPI£CCS

Gorgeous by Day, Spectacular by Night Illumination 4

 

