7 4 “ “vr a os
fa a 3%
eo
: “
”
ae ee
|

|

” a
a AY
.

4<¢

a

 

ar

 

 

  
  

7*2
=
X. ee

July 1938

Washington and Lee University

= The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine

er eee ae yegular visitor from the campus.

Perhaps you receive it either by subscrip-
tion or because you have contributed five

dollars or more to the class fund.

Perhaps you read somebody else’s copy—
if that’s the case, you'll certainly want copies

of your own instead.

So why not subscribe now if you're one
of those who has put off sending in a sub-

scription ?

Or, as you know, you get the magazine
for a five dollar or more contribution which

may be sent to your class agent.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
a H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul Street
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Building
Chicago

W. F. Symonds, 1040 Judson Evanston
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Company
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

Pinkney Grissom, Republic Nat'l Bank Bldg.
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson, Danville, Va.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Company
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,
Florida

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Reed Graves, 300 Warwick Lane

Louisville, Kentucky
John J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Building

Memphis, Tennessee
Allen Morgan, First National Bank

New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana
Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building

Northern Louisiana Association
Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport

Parkersburg, West Virginia
. B. Pennybacker, Parkersburg, W. Va.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building

fata Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D. 2
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Rockingham County Association
W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California
Los Angeles

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building

Tri-State Association
Joe W. Dingess, First ee National
Bank Building, Huntington, W.

Washington, D. C.

Dozier DeVane, Federal Power Commission

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office

at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

 

 

 

Vol. XIII JULY 1938 No. 5
Bde. 35 nak. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor....... ..RICHARD P. CARTER, 1929

a
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Prendenb eesti 88 JosErpH T. LyKEs, 1909
SOCPOOIY: ics ies Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TERUG EF ics cass: .. STUART Moore, 1914
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NorMAN S. FitzHuGH, 1898
H. H. LArtmore, 1896
Joun Bett Towtrt, 1929
Dr. RicHarD FowckEs, 1915
Contents for July 1938
PAGE

Values in the Liberal College (The President’s Page).......... 3

The University ¢ Néw Power FianG: i ....65.5. Sitges woecs. hese: 4

600 Alumni Return for the 189th Finals.......00.00000000000000000000.... 5

‘160 Vedra 6a the Bich Sagas cdc. ice area. aa 7

Forty-Kive Years ati aior: hides tos 23, cides neers tee ees 9

Campus Headline History, 1937-38..............0ccceeceeeneeees 10

Football Prospects for the 1938 Season..............0.0..000.ccccecee. 13

The Class of ’13’s Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Reunion.......... 16

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting............................ oe 19

Alumni Secretary's 1937-38 .Report......:........0..csccd0iced.ccencesfeees 21

Chats With Your Friends and Mine.................5.4s.00h.cc8cec0ecoe 23

Local: Alumni Association Notes: .:0.03::/<.lasscctisodescneactetanst odes. 26

Class Notes ...... pubs at 80 debe }tanas aos es Ooae olen ee fe si 27

ty

iverst

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee Un

 

 

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Values in the Liberal College

(The President’s Page)

(Digest of an address before the Presbyterian Educational Association at Montreat, July 2, 1938)

tT has become a convention among some serious-minded
people to consider higher education as the “CCC for-

mula’”—Culture, Competence, Character. Such
conception usually regards the three great en-
terprises thus suggested as segregated into sep-
arate, non-communicating compartments of the
human personality and consequently of the edu-
cative process. Such conception would go on to
definition: Culture is familiarity with the non-
practical aspects of human knowledge or thought ;
Competence is capacity to do a specific task in
the world’s work; Character is strength to re-
sist temptation.
* * *

According to this incomplete analysis, Cul-
ture, while nominally desirable, is given low rating as hav-
ing actually little significance for success in this world or
triumph in the next. Impetuous youth, eager to put its feet
upon a well-authenticated professional pathway, makes the
decision all but unanimous. The earnest soul who deems
that education is primarily to fortify the soul against the
world, the flesh, and the devil, joins in a query with the
boy who is hastening to the emoluments of his job: ““Why
spend years in the study of mathematics that will never be
used, languages that will never be spoken, critical ap-
praisals of what are after all merely flights of fancy ? Why
this business of the Liberal Arts ?”

7, we 28

The first error of this casual theory is in the implied
division of the totality of the human personality into frag-
ments. Certainly so far as education is concerned, the ends
are not thus conveniently separable. The inter-relation of
mental efforts, at least in the development of those men-
talities gifted for highest effort, seems one of the certain-
ties in our rather uncertain comprehensions of human life.

ee: oe

The conception of the three distinct, perhaps we may
say optional, terminations for the educational experience
is not only inaccurate but is tragically imperfect or partial.
No sensible man would seek to define in a quick phrase
the true end of education, or, to speak more specifically,
the stage of life which a young person should reach at the
end of a college course. But all who have labored in this
field have a conviction that the end of education is to make

 

of a given youth the biggest and finest personality in every
respect possible for that life.

* x x

From these two roughly stated principles,
we may draw a definite assumption that culture
is somewhere near the center of the important
enterprise. For culture, as we now use the term,
is the procedure by which we seek not a par-
ticularized or an immediate end but a general,
all-inclusive, permanent enlargement of person-
ality.

ee

Definite testimony could be cited to show
that those who know best the professional world
—the domain of competence—are recognizing that the
bigger personality, rather than the more technically
trained youth, has the best chance for usefulness and suc-
cess. The standardizing agencies of the major professions
move steadily toward requirements of heightened pre-
professional experiences of learning outside that field of
special expertness. Leaders of industry in repeated pub-
lic utterances, declare that the boy whose personality has
been expanded for wider understanding and more re-
sourceful leadership has every advantage over the man
who has been confined to the little groove of thought re-

lating to that business.
nei

Prophets of the social order, conscious of the strange
upheavals and anticipating recrystallizations, are pro-
claiming that the unpredictable eras before us require,
perhaps more than ever before, men and women of large
equipments, not in the petty details but in the compre-
hendings of background, the adaptabilities to new situa-
tions, the graces of social guidance, the devotions to social

ideals.
xk * x

But character itself may be immensely stronger be-
cause of culture; for character is not exclusively or even
chiefly a negative thing; character implies more than
strength to resist the outrageous temptation. Character in-
cludes the power to persist in worthy purposes after some
initial enthusiasm may have subsided. Character involves
the power to pursue an end for its own sake and not for

(Continued on page 8)

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The University’s New Power Plant

By Ropert W. DIcKEy
Professor of Physics and Superintendent of the Power Plant

NOTHER very important step was taken in the material
A improvement of the campus when it was decided to
construct a new heating plant. The present plant stands at
the architectural apex of the campus. It has been a con-
stant source of damage to the buildings and has interfered
with the necessary development of the rear campus. It 1s
fortunate that its mechanical life has come to an end at a
time when many improvements are being made. The new
plant will be located across the ravine near the railway
tracks.

The building in the basement of which the heating
plant is now located has had a varied history. At different
times the main floor has been used as a chemical labora-
tory, mechanical shop, electrical laboratory, or account-
ing department. It is now occupied by the printing presses
of the journalism department. With the removal of the
heating plant, all additions to the original building, in-
cluding the coal shed and plant chimney, will be removed
and area adjoining graded and planted to conform with
the campus in general. It is probable that this site will
eventually be selected for a new building to house either
the library or several of the science departments.

The present heating system is a circulated hot-water
arrangement by which steam from the boilers is passed
through converter tanks, thereby heating the water which
is carried to the buildings by a turbine-driven pump. In
1904 it was decided to build a central heating plant and
under the supervision of Professor David C. Humphreys
(affectionately known to his students as “Old Davey”)
all types of steam and hot-water systems were studied.
Professor Hale Houston, ‘Uncle Bud,” who was then liv-
ing in Ohio, aided in this selection, as he had lived in
residences heated from a central plant. After careful com-
parisons the circulated hot-water system, patented by
Evans Almirall Company of New York City, was selected
as being the most economical and best fitted for a district
with irregular contours. The advantages of this system are
smaller heat losses in the conduits and connecting pipe
lines, cheaper construction of pipe lines in that the lines
can be laid with the ground and do not have to be graded
to and from the central plant, freedom from noise, posi-
tive heating of all radiators and ability to control the tem-
perature of radiators in conformity with the weather tem-
peratures. The cost per student for heating all buildings
has averaged during the past fifteen years somewhat less

than ten dollars per year. This is a figure for economy
which cannot be equalled by many institutions in the coun-
try. The wisdom and foresight of these men is greatly
appreciated in the present time of higher cost of operation.

On the death of Professor Humphreys about eighteen
years ago the writer was assigned the job of superintend-
ing the operation of the central plant. During that period
several new buildings and seven residences have been
added to the system without any great change in the plant.
At the present time all residences on the campus and all
buildings except the gymnasium are heated from the main
plant.

Although the original plant has been in continuous op-
eration for nearly thirty-five years with only one inter-
ruption for a short period of several days it was agreed
that, its future use being doubtful, construction of a new
and modern plant should be started at once. The location
selected is about nine hundred feet northwest of the main
building across the ravine in the rear of the campus and
near the baseball field. A railroad siding at this point will
permit the delivery of coal directly to the bunkers. The
construction was begun several weeks ago and will be
completed for the opening of school in September. In de-
signing the building care was taken to make it conform
as nearly as practical with the appearance of other build-
ings on the campus. It will be fire resistant, being con-
structed entirely of concrete and brick. A radial red-
brick stack will be used for natural draft. In addition to
the coal storage room the building contains a large boiler
room and a smaller room for the pumps and converter
tanks. It is not intended at the present to generate elec-
trical power, but arrangements have been made for the
future addition of a generator room, when our power re-
quirements increase to the point where it is economical to
generate all electrical power used on the campus. The boil-
ers, manufactured by the Union Iron Works, will be equip-
ped with Detroit stokers, automatically controlled. The
water, heated by steam in the converter tanks, will be cir-
culated through the pipe lines by a De Laval turbine-
driven pump. The temperature of the water will be auto-
matically controlled by a mechanism which recognizes and
compensates for any change in the outside weather tem-
perature and a wind velocity greater than six to ten miles
per hour. In this way the proper temperature of the wa-

(Continued on page 8)

[4]

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

kas
The above picture was taken during the Alumni luncheon held at the University Dining Hall during Washington and Lee’s
189th Finals, June 8, 9 and 10.

 

600 Alumni Return for the 189th Finals

By RICHARD P.

EMORIES of the Washington and Lee of yesterday
M echoed on the campus June 8, 9 and 10 when ap-
proximately 600 alumni—one of the largest gatherings of
old grads on record in Lexington—returned for the Uni-
versity’s 189th Finals program.

They came from the north, south, east and west, with
members of the class of 1913, holding their twenty-fifth
anniversary reunion, leading the parade back to their
Alma Mater. Thirty-seven members of the class of 1913
returned for the reunion; many who could not visit the
campus for the get-together sent notes expressing regret
that other matters kept them away.

The 1938 Finals went down in history—because of
this large return of alumni and because of other things on
the program that bespoke the success of the exercises—
as one of the best ever held at Washington and Lee.

One hundred and sixty-one students received degrees
at the commencement’ program held, in accordance with
tradition, in Lee Chapel. Four master of arts degrees were
conferred ; 32 bachelor of laws; 85 bachelor of arts; nine
bachelor of science; and 31 bachelor of science in com-
merce.

Dr. Gaines, addressing the graduates, told them “‘not
to be afraid” to face the future despite the frequently-
heard predictions of “stormy weather” in world condi-
tions. “Predictions of stormy weather,” he said, “are not
new.”

Two alumni were awarded honorary degrees at the

CARTER, 1929

commencement exercises. The Rev. George Allen Fleece,
pastor of Central Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga,
was made a Doctor of Divinity, and Dr. Matthew W. Mc-
Clure, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
at the University of Illinois, was made a Doctor of
Letters.

The Board of Trustees, holding their annual Finals
meeting, elected Dr. John N. Thomas, pastor of the Grace
Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Virginia, a
new member of the board. Dr. Thomas, well known in
southern ministerial circles, was graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1924.

The Board elected Dr. James L. Howe, professor of
chemistry and oldest member of the faculty in point of
service, as professor emeritus of chemistry. Dr. Howe
also was appointed University historian.

Foster Morehart, who has been director of junior col-
lege libraries for the Carnegie Corporation, was named
librarian at Washington and Lee, succeeding Miss Blanche
McCrum, who resigned last year. He will arrive in Lex-
ington during the summer and will take over his new du-
ties at that time.

The Board also appointed Harry M. Philpott of Lex-
ington, North Carolina, member of this year’s graduating
class and one of the outstanding students on the campus,
as director of religious activities at the University. He will
assume his duties late this summer.

Professor Rupert Latture was named supervisor of

[5]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

freshman work at the University. He also will continue
his teaching assignments.

Five members of the faculty were granted promotions
by the Board of Trustees. Dr. James S. Moffatt and Dr.
Fitzgerald Flournoy were advanced from associate pro-
fessors to full professors of English. Lawrence E. Wat-
kin, author of the Broadway success play, “On Borrowed
Time,” which was adapted from his novel of the same
name, was promoted from assistant professor to asso-
ciate professor of English.

Dr. Leonard C. Helderman, associate professor of
history, was promoted to full professor of
history.

Robert H. Gray, instructor in eco-
nomics and commerce, was made an as-
sistant professor in those subjects.

Social affairs at the 1938 Finals in-
cluded three dances—the Interfraternity-
Sigma Ball Wednesday night, the Senior-
Alumni Prom Thursday night, and the all-
night Final Ball beginning at 11 o'clock
Friday night and ending Saturday morn-
ing at 6 o’clock with the playing—and
singing—of “College Friendships.”

Hal Kemp’s orchestra played for the
first two dances ; music for Final Ball was
by George Hall’s orchestra.

Alumni affairs in addition to the usual
meetings, included a well-attended smoker
at the Student Union Building—where
alumni headquarters were set up for
Finals—and a luncheon on Friday. Alum-
ni also attended a reception given by
President and Mrs. Gaines at their home.

At the General Alumni meeting June 10, the Thomas
Nelson Page medal given annually to an alumnus for dis-
tinguished service to Washington and Lee was presented
to Robert P. Hobson of Louisville. The presentation was
made by Dr. Gaines.

Honorary appointments for graduates and undergrad-
uates this year were made as follows by the faculty, and
were formally bestowed at the Lee Chapel commence-
ment exercises :

ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIPS

Mapleson Scholarship: William Saxby Tavel, Con-
necticut; Vincent L. Bradford Scholarship: William Le-
Roy Burner, Jr., Ohio, Robert Harold Gaddy, South
Carolina; Luther Seevers Birely Scholarship: Richard
Mullinix Radcliffe, Maryland.

Franklin Society Scholarship: Edgar Finley Shannon,
Jr., Virginia ; James McDowell Scholarship : Zalmon Her-
zel Garfield, Virginia, Neil Turpin Houston, Missouri ;

 

Dr. J. N. Thomas

James D. Davidson Memorial Fund Scholarship: William
Warner Brown, Ohio, Paul Guerrant Morrison, Jr.,
Illinois.

James J. White Scholarship: Lafayette Randolph
Hanna, Alabama; Mary Louisa Reid White Scholarship :
Charles Lee Hobson, Kentucky; Taylor Scholarship:
George Murray Smith, Jr., Kentucky.

Young Scholarship: William Harry Kubler, Jr., Vir-
ginia; Inter-Fraternity Council Scholarship: Harold Ed-
ward Harvey, New York; The John H. Hamilton Scho-
larship: Bayard Stuyvesant Berghaus, Pennsylvania.

DEPARTMENT SCHOLARSHIP

German: Charles Steenbergen, West
Virginia; Economics: Hamilton Hertz,
New York; English: Robert Byrd Espy,
Alabama; Commerce: Randolph Marshall
Duncan, New Jersey.

Biology : Benjamin Ray Lawton, Dis-
trict of Columbia; Physics: Henry EI-
wood McLaughlin, Florida; Physical Edu-
cation: Brent Harrison Farber, Jr., Mary-
land; Accounting: Philip Keyes Yonge,
Florida.

Political Science: Arthur Reno Por-
ter, Jr., Pennsylvania; History: William
Alexander Jenks, Florida; Education ;
Thomas William Moses, West Virginia;
Geology : Charles Daniel Tolley, Virginia.

Latin: Francis Carroll Bryan, Ken-
tucky; Journalism: Hugh Reid Thomp-
son, Jr., Virginia; Spanish: Albert Neill
Cole, New York; French: Ross Pelton
Schlabach, Jr., Virginia.

The Howard Houston Teaching Fellowship was
awarded this year to Earl J. Milligan of Dansville, New
York, a Phi Beta Kappa who has made an outstanding
scholastic record at Washington and Lee. Other prizes and
awards were: Cincinnati Essay Award: Stanford Lee
Schewel, Virginia; Sigma Delta Chi Scholarship Award:
Earl John Milligan, New York; Algernon Sydney Sulli-
van Medallion: Harry Melvin Philpott, North Carolina.

Individual Intramural Trophy: Randolph Marshall
Duncan, New Jersey, Vance Anderson Funk, Jr., Indi-
ana; Lind Prize in Chemistry: David Norvell Walker,
Virginia; J. G. Herndon Prize for best Student Library :
James Gibson Lamb, Jr., Pennsylvania; Robinson Award
in Mathematics and Sciences: David Norvell Walker,
Virginia.

The George A. Mahan Prizes for Creative Writing:
Freshmen: William Buchanan, Virginia, Samuel Creed
Gholson, Mississippi; Sophomores: William McClain
Read, Pennsylvania, Philip Williams, Jr., Virginia.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“100 Years on the High Seas’’

(Joseph T. Lykes, class of 1909, elected president of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association at the 1938
Finals meeting, is a member of a family famous in mari-
time circles. Just before Finals, the Alumni O ffice received
a clipping from the “Rice News’ detailing some of the ac-
tivities of the Lykes family; it seems appropriate to print
some excerpts from the ar-
ticle—‘100 Y ears on the High
Seas’ —especially since Presi-
dent Lykes of the Alumni has
a son at Washington and Lee
—Joe, Jr—and a nephew—
Charlie Lykes of Houston,
Texas.—Ep1tor’s Norte. )

O HISTORY of the devel-
N opment of Gulf ports or,
for that matter, of the Amer-
ican merchant marine could
be told with any degree of ac-
curacy without paying trib-
ute to an enterprise that has
dedicated itself to the task of
wresting back for American
shipping the prestige it once
enjoyed.

There have been two tra-
ditions in the Lykes family.
One was to raise good beef
cattle, the other to regain for
this country some of the mar-
itime glory that had been
steadily slipping away into
foreign hands.

Both traditions have flow-
ered into full fruition. Lykes’
cattle are known all over the
South and in many Latin
countries. And the Lykes flag flies from ships that ply to
most all of the important ports of the world.

No other family engaged in Southern shipping can
look back for five generations—one hundred years—and
show any such continuous family activity in ocean com-
merce.

Nor can any single family scan thousands of acres of
what once was wilderness and approximate the success
the Lykes family has achieved in the difficult business of
raising cattle.

 

 

Joseph T. Lykes, Alumni President

It was logical and natural that the six Lykes brothers
now operating the far-flung Lykes enterprises should
have conceived and developed their great merchant ma-
rine business, for they come of a race of pioneers who
were ship owners.

Their father, Dr. Howell Tyson Lykes, was one of
the founders of the great cat-
tle industry in Florida. He
came to Florida before the
Civil War, serving in that
conflict as scout in Florida at
the age of sixteen.

When the problem of mar-
keting his cattle presented it-
self, Dr. Lykes began char-
tering and purchasing vessels.
Cuba presented a profitable
market for cattle and Euro-
pean countries for his cedar
and hardwoods.

On the maternal side the
Lykes brothers also inherit a
love for the sea and for ships.
Their mother was a daughter
of Captain James McKay,
who left his home in Thurso,
Scotland, about 1832, to seek
his fortune in this new land.

Captain McKay located
first in St. Louis, then moved
to Mobile. There he learned
of Tampa and determined to
make that place his perma-
nent home.

In 1903, James M. Lykes,
a younger brother, joined the
firm and in 1906 opened a
branch office at Galveston,
Texas, from which the firm conducted an extensive ship-
ping business and acted as agents for foreign lines as well
as in chartering ships for the carriage of freight and
largely for transporting cattle dealt in by the firm between
points in Texas, Mexico, South America and Cuba.

In 1910 the business of Lykes Brothers was incor-
porated under the name of Lykes Brothers, Inc., and
F. A. Morris, who had been associated with the Lykes
Brothers from the time they started the business, became
interested in the company.

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Following that, Lipscomb G. Lykes, T. M. Lykes,
J. W. Lykes and Joseph ‘I. Lykes, younger brothers, be-
came part of the organization.

At the close of the World War the United States Gov-
ernment offered Lykes Brothers agencies for the opera-
tion of several of the ships that had been built by the
Government for war purposes, in conjunction with the
plan of the Government to rehabilitate the American
Merchant Marine and to develop regular and substantial
trade routes under the American flag.

In conformity with the Government's policies, the
company abandoned all of its foreign agency contracts
and devoted its activities entirely to the operation of
American ships.

R. E. Tipton, native of Alabama, long experienced in
ocean and rail traffic, joined the Lykes organization and
opened their New Orleans office in 1920.

The Lykes Brothers Steamship Company was organ-
ized in 1923 for the purpose of taking over the steamship
business of Lykes Brothers, Inc. At that time Mr. Tipton
became a member of the Lykes official family as a stock-
holder and executive vice-president.

In 1925 Lykes Brothers-Ripley Steamship Company
was organized for the purpose of operating and subse-
quently acquiring ship lines operating to European and
Far Eastern ports.

While ‘Tampa is the original home of Lykes Brothers,
the principal steamship headquarters are located in New
Orleans, Houston and Galveston. Branch offices of the
House of Lykes are located in ten other ports and cities
in this country and in fifteen foreign ports.

The Lykes brothers, seven in number, working to-
gether, combining their earnings and their efforts in build-
ing these enterprises, have brought to a realization the
visions of their father and grandfather, who foresaw the
possibilities of trade out of the Gulf.

Three Lykes shipping companies operate out of Gulf
ports to South America, the West Indies, Mediterranean,
Adriatic, Portuguese, Spanish, British and North Con-
tinental European ports, as well as to ports in the Far
East.

The combined fleet of sixty-eight ships contstantly in
service is the largest aggregation of units and tonnage en-
gaged in maritime freight service under a single owner-
ship and management beneath the American Flag.

The Lykes company gives direct and indirect employ-
ment constantly to 5,000 persons with an average annual
payroll of $4,000,000.

The companies annually carry 2,000,000 tons of
freight, import and export, and collect freight revenues of
$10,000,000, of which 85 percent is spent in the United
States for wages, supplies and other requirements.

The Lykes Steamship activities, it is estimated, have

increased the national wealth by more than $120,000,000
in freight monies collected and expended in connection
with the operation of the lines.

 

The University’s New Power Plant

(Continued from page 4)

ter in the radiators can be maintained for any type of
weather.

New pipe lines will be brought across the ravine and
connected to the old lines in the basement of the present
plant. These pipes are carried in a specially constructed
conduit, most of which is under ground. To cross Wood's
Creek it was necessary to elevate the trench above the
high-water mark. The top of the elevated trench will be
widened sufficiently to form a roadway for a light truck.

When completed it is hoped that the plant, with all
modern equipment, will be more economical and will give
more uniform service than was possible with the old meth-
ods of hand-firing and hand-control. Aside from this its
greatest value will be the opportunity afforded to improve
the rear campus.

The plant was designed by Wiley and Wilson, con-
sulting engineers, of Lynchburg, Virginia. The building,
conduits and bridge are being constructed by John P.
Pettyjohn & Company, who had the contract for the erec-
tion of the new Tucker Hall, and the restoration of the
main building and Newcomb Hall.

 

The President's Page

(Continued from page 3)

any obviously personal advantage that may be associated
with it.
ee

The mathematics may never be used ; but the boy who
takes a year of it, fights it day in and day out, conquers it
not because he enjoys it or can “cash in on it’’ but because
it is his immediate duty—that boy has got more than three
credits, more than a disputed “‘mental” discipline. He has
gone a long way toward competence and he has developed
within himself a mighty self-mastery that is the founda-

tion of character.
* x Ox

In a noble verity, competence and character wait for
fullest development upon true inner culture. The Liberal
Arts college faces at once the world of the practical and
the world of the spiritual with richest contributions for

both realms.
Wikis frets pone:

[8 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Forty-Five Years an Editor

Ro AND LEE alumnus, R. Drake Haislip,
class of 1875, who edited the Staunton, Virginia,
Evening Leader well into his eighty-eighth year, retired
from active journalism May 1, 1938. Up to within two
weeks of his retirement, he went to the office regularly
every day, arriving at 8 a. m., reading the exchanges,
mingling with his friends down town, reading proof, and
doing his writing.

Mr. and Mrs. Haislip celebrated on Monday, June 13,
their sixty-second wedding anniversary, their sons and
daughters and several grandchildren com-
ing to Staunton for the occasion. Mr.
Haislip probably is the oldest living Vir-
ginia newspaper man, and was the dean
of Virginia editors at the time of his re-
tirement. He edited Staunton newspapers
for forty-five years, and was editor of
The Evening Leader for more than thir-
ty-one years.

Known for his fearlessness and out-
spokenness, Mr. Haislip always wielded
a fine influence through his editorial col-
umns. One of his outstanding traits has
been his interest in the youth of his com-
munity, and he has assisted more young
men in establishing themselves than al-
most any other citizen. He has always
fought for what he thought was right in
politics, civic matters and those of a re-
ligious nature.

Mr. Haislip was 48 years old when the Spanish-
American War broke out, but having a wife and five chil-
dren solely dependent upon him, he did not enter the ser-
vice, but put forth his entire efforts with his pen.

Before going to Staunton in 1893, Mr. Haislip was
Professor of French and English in the University of
Baton Rouge, and was also in the banking business in
New York City. Once he entered the newspaper field,
however, he got the proverbial “printers’ ink” on his fin-
gers and was never willing to give it up. Strange as it may
seem, none of his three sons emulated his example, al-
though a daughter, Miss Irene Haislip, was for some time
connected with one of her father’s papers, and is known
as a gifted writer.

A son, Lieutenant Colonel Wade Hampton Haislip,
United States Army, had the distinction of being one of
the youngest majors in the A. E. F., having been but 28

 

R. Drake Haislip

years old when he won his golden leaves. Another son,
Richard A. Haislip, holds an executive position with the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, and still
another, Frederick Haislip, is in the coal business in West
Virginia. Besides the daughter mentioned, there is an
elder daughter, Mrs. W. C. Williams, residing in Florida.
Always a devout Presbyterian, Mr. Haislip was for
twenty-five years Clerk of the Session of the First Pres-
byterian Church, having recently resigned, owing to ad-
vancing years. Since 1893 Mr. Haislip has been a beloved
and familiar figure in Staunton’s life and
as he has grown older, his friends seem
to have become more numerous. If it
happened that he missed a day at the of-
. fice, numerous inquiries came in about
him.

Two of his closest friends took turns
dropping in daily to see “if he is behav-
ing himself,” as Mr. Haislip expresses it,
although no man in Staunton leads a
more temperate and upright life.

One of the reasons he gives for his
long and active life, is that he has al-

temperateness in all
things, retires early, and arises almost

ways practiced
with the sun. He has a wonderful sense
of humor which has helped him to face
Vi many turning points in his life.
Journalism in the Old Dominion
misses the constant service of Mr. Hais-
lip as an editor because of his interest in the fourth es-
tate and his abilities, but points with pride to a man who
served the profession so well and so long. He well earned
the rest he decided to take from the strenuous duties of
newspaper work after so many years, and although he re-
tired from active journalism he still keeps in touch with
what the world is doing—he has been too much of a
newspaperman to fail to follow the trend of things.

 

Henry P. Jounston, 1929, and MArK Hanna, 1914,
recently negotiated a contract whereby Radio Station
WSGN is to broadcast all of the Birmingham Club’s ball
games at home and away from home on an exclusive basis.
This was the first time the Southern League had permit-
ted home games to be broadcast. Henry is Vice President-
Director of Station WSGN.

[9 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Campus Headline History, 1937-38

September 21
Fancy Dress President Russ Doane Fails to Return
to School . . . Will Rogers and Seth Baker Apply for
Vacanacy .. . New Rush Plan Termed Success as Two
Hundred Pledge Fraternities.

September 24
Don Bestor Signed for Opening Dances .. . Big Blue
Prime for Battle Against Wofford .. . Enrollment Fig-
ures Reveal Nine Hundred and Seventeen Students Here.

September 28
Will Rogers Is Named President of Fancy Dress...
Phi Epsilon Pi First in Scholarship for Fourth Straight
Semester . . . Christian Council Inaugurates Freshman
Friendship Council .. . Blue Tops Wofford, 20-0.

October 1
Major-General Kilbourne Takes Over at V. M.I....
Brigadiers Defeat S. M. A. 13-0 in First Game . . . Co-
tillion Club Bids Twenty-six ... Five Classes Prepare to
Rubber-Stamp Clique Candidates.

October 5
Intramural Board Adopts Simplified Scoring System
.. . Clique Crushes Opponents . . . Eight Named for
Rhodes Scholarship Trials . . . Howard Scores to Give
Generals 6-0 Victory Over Richmond.

October 8
Big Apple Is Banned from Washington and Lee
Dances .. . Calyx Junior Editors Are Named . . . Frosh

Trounce Richmond 32-0... Phi Eta Sigma Elects Doctor
Gaines.
October 12
Woman Stumps Literary Societies in Debate on “Man
Versus Woman”... Dance Board Requires Vouchers
for Visitors .. . Generals Lose to Mountaineers in Mud,
6-0... Fletcher Named to Olympic Committee.

October 15
Three Hundred Girls Attend Openings . . . Kappa
Sigma Holds Open House . . . First Monthly Collegian
Goes on Sale.
October 19
Cold Check Rules Are Tightened . . . Two Students
Escape Death in Car Crash ... Kentucky Batters Blue,
41-6... Calyx Wins “Excellent” Rating at Press Meet-
ing... Sigma Nu Wins Interfraternity Scholarship Cup.

October 22
Brigadiers Come From Behind to Beat Virginia, 14-9
... Sigma Delta Chi Pledges Eleven . . . One Hundred
and Seventy-seven Apply for Degrees.

October 26
Dean Hudson Signs for Homecoming . . . Rayder
Reveals Drop in Student Body Funds ... Troubs Plan

Production of “Dover Road”... Generals Drop Duke
From 1938 Football Schedule ... Tech Beats Blue, 19-7.

October 29
University Host to Record Delegation at S. I. P. A.
Convention . . . Faculty Will Vote on Executive Com-
mittee Petition for Full Homecoming Holiday . . . Fris-
toe Chosen Sophomore President.

November 2
Omicron Delta Kappa Asks Student Support for
Homecoming ... Faculty Turns Down Full Holiday . . .
Duke Tramples Generals, 43-0.

November 5
School Prepares for Homecoming Against Virginia
... Frosh Hang Up Fourth Straight Victory Over VPI,
18-0... Second Issue of Collegian Ready.

November 9

Faculty Vote Shorter Exams ... New Course Num-
bering Plan Proposed ... Fifteen Hundred Alumni Re-
ported at Homecoming . . . Organ Donated to Lee Chapel

... Phi Eta Sigma Plans Smoker for Freshman With
High Averages Doctor Samuel Lind Addresses
Chemists ... Virginia Falls, 13-6.

November 13
Sweet Briar Turns Down Proposed Hockey Game...
Literary Societies Plan Official Union . . . International
Relations Club Hears Helen Miller.

November 16
Officials Spike Rumor That Greasy Neale Will Suc-
ceed Tex Tilson as Football Coach . .. Athletic Associa-
tion Shows Profit for Season of 1936-1937 .. . Editor
Reid States Policy of Magazine ... Generals Win, 14-12,
From Indians ... Frosh Lose to Maryland, 8-0.

November 19
Cap and Gown Fees Lowered by Executive Commit-
tee . . . Farrar Discusses Typographic Trends Before

(Continued on page 12)

[10]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Judge Gibbs of Florida

The following article on Judge George Couper Gibbs,
LL.B. 1903, is reprinted from the Jacksonville, Florida,
Journal of May 16:

N 1822, George Gibbs was appointed by President James
| Monroe as clerk of the eastern district of the Territory
of Florida. Tomorrow, in Tallahassee, Judge George
Couper Gibbs, of Jacksonville, great-grandson, carries on
a distinguished tradition. He will be sworn in as attorney
general for the state of Florida.

Judge Gibbs, on the circuit court bench here for nearly
23 years, left Jacksonville today to take over his new du-
ties. From now on, the state will be his client.

Judge Gibbs, named by Governor Cone to succeed the
late Cary D. Landis, comes of a family long prominently
identified with Florida history. His great-grandfather was
the first clerk of Florida as a territory. His grandfather,
Colonel George Couper Gibbs, was mayor of Jacksonville
in 1885. As lawyer and jurist, Judge Gibbs has added lus-
ter to the name.

St. Augustine as well as Jacksonville was honored with
the appointment of Judge Gibbs to the state cabinet. Judge
Gibbs was born in Jacksonville, but at the age of three
moved to St. Augustine, where he lived until 1903. Born
in October, 1878, he is 58.

Judge Gibbs received his early education in St. Augus-
tine. He was a member of the St. Augustine Rifles, and
volunteered at the outbreak of the Spanish-American
War, serving with Company G of the First Florida Vol-
unteer Infantry. In 1901, he entered Washington and Lee
University, where in 1903 he took his degree in law. In
1907, he set up for himself, after four years in the law of-
fice of A. W. Cockrell. He succeeded Judge Rhydon M.
Call in 1913 as circuit judge of the fourth judicial circuit.
From 1913 to 1935, Judge Gibbs served on the circuit
court bench here. He did not offer for renomination in
the 1934 primaries, retiring to active private practice.

Judge Gibbs is president of the Civitan Club. He has
long been active in civic and social affairs. Among other
things, he has served with the Boy Scout movement here.
The new attorney general was one of the busiest men in
Jacksonville in the forenoon today, receiving congratula-
tions, and preparing to be off. Law requires residence at
the capital.

A special primary is to be held in June for the Dem-
ocratic nomination to the state attorney general office.
Judge Gibbs has said he will run. The primary is consid-
ered a formality. The general election will be held in
November.

 

Homecoming day this fall will be October 22, when
the Generals meet their time-honored rivals, V. P. I.

 

William J. Cox

Cox Named Highway Head

ProFEssor WILLIAM J. Cox of Yale University, who
received his B.A. from Washington and Lee in 1917 and
his B.S. in 1918, recently was named state highway com-
missioner for Connecticut. He was appointed to the po-
sition by Governor Cross, who termed him a highly quali-
fied engineer and highway expert.

Cox was born in Portland, Oregon, in 1896; he served
overseas in the World War as a lieutenant of engineers,
and at the time of his appointment to the Connecticut po-
sition was Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechan-
ics at Yale. He has directed construction and surveys of
various highways in the United States, and in 1924-1925
was traffic engineer for the National Bureau of Casualty
and Surety Underwriters in New York City.

Cox, a Democrat, will hold the highway office until
the 1939 legislative session in Connecticut. *

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Tau Beta Pi, en-
gineering honor society, and the American Society of
Civil Engineers,

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

(Continued from page 10)

Journalists .. . Averages at Mid-Term Show Slack . . .
Only Thirty-three Make Honor Roll . . . Varsity Debate
Team Selects Twelve ... Interfraternity Council Retains
Rushing Rules .. . ATO Defeats PiKa in Finals of 1-M
Football Tournament.

November 23
Doctor Phillips’ Report for Maritime Commission Is
Praised... Plans for VIPA Convention Here Are Made
by Billy Hudgins . . . Bradshaw Crandall Is Named to
Select Calyx Beauties . . . Generals Are Second in Con-
ference Cross Country Race.

November 26
Executive Committee Votes Salaries for Assistant
Editors of Ring-tum Phi... Graham Quits as Head of
Glee Club . . . Generals Lose to Maryland, 8-0. . . Blue
Gain Tie for State Title When Tech Upsets Keydets.

November 30
Drew Pearson Accepts Invitation to Address Jour-
nalists . . . Two Dances Scheduled for Week-end . . .
Leaders Praise Resolution for Ring-tum Phi Salaries .. .
Rogers and Brown Make All-State Grid Team.

December 3
Fancy Dress Theme Announced as Ball in the Old
South . . . Complete Death for Graham Plan Is Advo-

cated by Conference Members . . . One Hundred and
Fifty Delegates Attend VIPA Convention . . . Sigma
Delta Chi Initiates Ten .. . Troubadours Present Smash
Hit With Hilarious “Dover Road”... Four Freshmen
Make All-State Team.

December 7
Faculty Considers Resolution to Force Candidates for
Student Offices to Maintain High Scholastic Average .. .
Ring-tum Phi Named Best College Paper in state..... ..
Faculty Decide to Select Valedictorian on Grade Basis
_.. Varsity Banquet Is Planned to Replace Football
Dinner.
December 10
Omicron Delta Kappa Taps Twenty-eight . . .. Jack
Thomas Gives Address in Lee Chapel .. . Phi Eta Sigma
Entertains Thirty-nine Freshmen . . . Bill Brown Is
Elected Football Captain.

December 14
Jan Garber Signs for Fancy Dress . . . Fight Wash-
ington and Lee Men Take Rhodes Scholarship Inter-
views .. . Chorus to Sing “The Messiah” . . . Graham
Plan Is Killed . . . Generals Win First Cage Battle From
Lynchburg; 32-23.
December 17
Beta Gamma Sigma Pledges Three Commerce Stu-
dents . .. Third Collegian Makes Appearance . . . Stu-

dents Head Home for Christmas Holidays . . . Calyx
Picture Drive Closes With Record Total ... Washington
and Lee Swing Selected Among Five Most Popular Col-
lege Tunes . . . Betas Win Interfraternity Mat Trophy
_.. Pi Kappa Alpha Wins I-M Volleyball Title From
Delts in Finals.

January 7
Reid Removed as Editor of Collegian as Faculty Sus-
pends Publication . . . New Pre-Law Requirements
Adopted . . . Anonymous Donor Gives $50,000 to Uni-
versity . . . Joe Dietz Dies in Holiday Auto Wreck .. .
City Council Votes Down Sunday Movies . . . Elon Up-
sets Generals.

January 11
Faculty Re-Establishes Collegian Pending Submission
of Suitable Plans by Executive Committee .. . Will Rog-
érs Names Men for Fancy Dress Figure ... . Generals
Beat Maryland ... Frosh Trip Danville.

January 14
Library Holds Printing Exhibit . . . Doctor Gaines
Cites War Dangers Before International Relations Club
_.. Frosh Crush Augusta, 66-17 . .. Generals Down Wil-
liam and Mary, 42-20... Students Prepare for Exams.

February 1
Automatic Rule Catches Forty as Sixty-two Make
Honor Roll... Literary Clubs Elect Burner and Griffith
to Presidencies ... Old South Proves Popular Theme for
Fancy Dress ... Sir Herbert Ames Cites Peace Threats.

February 4
Publication Board Will Discuss Collegian Fate . . .
Watkin’s Book “On Borrowed Time” Is Cheered in New
York Dramatization ... Ring-tum Phi Has Highest Or-
ganization Grades . . . Generals Fall Before Long Island,
35-32 .. . Frosh Score Fifth Triumph Over Greenbrier,
47-29.

February 8
Jimmy Fishel Named Head of Southern Collegian ...
Cleveland Chosen Business Manager . . . Newsreel Pho-
tographers Shoot Wrestlers at Work . . . Chi Gamma
Theta Bids Twenty-two . . . Swimmers Win Opening
Meet With Randolph-Macon ... Frosh Win and Varsity
Lose in Basketball.

February 11

Calvert Thomas Injured on Eve of Princeton Meet
_,. Annual Scholarship Prizes To Be Given for Creative
Writing .. . Fraternities Receive Promise of Aid in Pro-
moting Tourney . . . Interfraternity Council Plans Move
to Reduce Power Rates .. . Generals Swat Spiders 33-30
as Petey Jacobs Is Hurt.

(Continued on page 15)

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Football Prospects for the 1938 Season

F ALL of the potential sophomore prospects return this

fall, Washington and Lee probably will be much
stronger on the gridiron than last season, when the Gen-
erals found the going difficult against an array of power-
ful teams.

It is the presence of so
much sophomore material,
however, that makes predict-
ing how good the Generals
may be an unusually hard
assignment. It is agreed by
football observers, however,
that Coach Tex Tilson un-
doubtedly will have to rely
on these first-year-on-the-
varsity men to supply the
punch needed to push over
winning ‘touchdowns.

From present indications,
there will be an ample sup-
ply of tackles but not so
many ends and not so much
reserve strength in the mid-
dle of the line. The forewall
will not be as heavy as in
the past few seasons.

One of the major losses
by graduation is 1937 Cap-
tain Will Rogers of Peters-
burg, Virginia, All-Virginia
center of last fall.

The 1938 captain, Bull
Brown of Toledo, Ohio, will
hold down his regular guard
position, with Jim Lindsey
of Ringgold, Virginia, probably taking care of the other
job at guard. Brown, one of the University’s outstanding
students, adds golf to his athletic attainments; he has
played two years on Coach Cy Twombly’s golf team and
will captain the squad next spring.

The Washington and Lee backfield probably will be
faster than the 1937 edition, but here again the debatable
question rests with the sophomores.

Outstanding among the backfield candidates is young
Dick Pinck of Paterson, New Jersey, who is expected to
draw a quarterbacking assignment. Harrison Hogan, a
junior from Mount Pleasant, Michigan, and Ray Crait
of Clifton Forge, Virginia, a senior, should see consider-

 

Bill Brown, 1938 Football Captain

able service carrying the ball. Both are fast and played
fine football last season; both can pass and punt excep-
tionally well.

In the line, Joe Ochsie of Paterson, New Jersey, one
of the state’s most depend-
able tackles, and hefty Dick
Boisseau of Petersburg, Vir-
ginia, will get tackle assign-
ments. Both Ochsie and
Boisseau play proverbial
bang-up games in the line.

The Generals encounter-
ed more than their share of
hard luck last fall — espe-
cially with injuries, which
were numerous. Notable
among the casualties of the
1937 season was Al Szy-
manski, whose leg was brok-
en in one of the early games,
and who, incidentally, will
help coach the freshmen
this fall.

The 1938 schedule, how-
ever, probably will favor the
Big Blue team more. An un-
usual aspect of this fall’s
line-up of games is the tra-
ditional battle with the Uni-
versity of Virginia as the
second game on the sched-
ule. The annual clash with
the West Virginia Moun-
taineers at Charleston
lows on the Saturday after
the game with the Cavaliers at Charlottesville, Virginia.

The 1938 homecoming game is with Virginia Tech on
October 22.

Washington and Lee athletic teams continued pro-
gressively along the lanes that lead toward supremacy and
championships during 1937-1938, although the champion-

fol-

ships were not so plentiful as in past years. Time-honored
tradition was maintained and the Wahoos from Virginia
were repulsed in football, basketball, swimming, and
baseball.

During the autumn of 1937, Coach Forest Fletcher's
Cross Country “bunion” team lost two and won one dual
meet. The surprise came when the General harriers cop-

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

ped second in the Southern Con-
ference meet, one week after a FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
similar performance in the State 1938
meet. Sept.24

; Oct > 42> Vitewmie ta:-

The basketball team started Ou #8
rolling with a coveted confer- Oct. 15 Kentucky...
ence title to defend. With Co- et 2209 Pe bcm.
Captains Kit Carson and Bob Oct. 29 Richmond
Spessard, a pair of all-southern Nov. 5

f Saas aka Maca aha Nov. 12. W. and M....

ee urnishing the Zip, 1€ Nov. 24 Maryland.....
Generals got off to a good start * Hiseoolninas
but bogged down in mid-season

Hampden-Sydney....Lexington, Va.
silted Charlottesville, Va.
West Virginia....Charleston, W. Va.
smloscasie Lexington, Ky.
jee oe te Lexington, Va.
ciikadtaien Richmond, Va.
Centre College........ Louisville, Ky.
jadiitaahaidhe Lexington, Va.
sbovedbchant Baltimore, Md.

but were still unable to knock
Duke from the top of the con-
ference field.

Washington and Lee con-
tinued as a pioneer in boat rac-
ing for this section of the coun-
try and the crew took several in-
teresting trips. After downing
Marietta College in Florida, the
oarsmen lost to Rollins there
and to Manhattan on the Har-
lem River, New York. The

 

 

and finally barely made the con-

ference tourney at Raleigh. Cy’s boys were fortunate
enough to draw North Carolina in the opening round and
reached an unprecedented peak in this game. Carolina
went under, 48-23, but this achievement took the spark
out of the ignition system and we were eliminated by
Clemson the next night. Bill Borries of Louisville was
chosen to captain the team next year.

Losses to Princeton and Kansas State in wrestling
made it a lean year in that sport because rarely has Archie
Mathis ever dropped a pair in one year. But four victor-
ies leveled it off, despite the failure of several key men to
return to school. Bob Kemp will captain the team next
winter.

Cy Twombly’s: swimmers raked out the only South-
ern Conference championship of the year. This makes the
fourth year in a row we have held this title, which speaks
mighty well for Cy because some of the incumbent cham-
pions failed to show up this year. The Generals won all
five of their dual meets.

The baseball stock rocketed early this spring when
Cap’n Dick’s boys in Blue defeated Ohio State in the
opener to break a seventeen-game losing streak which had
accrued in 1937. Before the season was out the Generals
had won five games, considerably better than the previous
year, although there was a marked scarcity of pitchers.
Roy Dart of Jacksonville, Florida, was elected captain for
next year.

The track team came up with several individual sur-
prise packages this year. One was Heartsill Ragon, Jr.,
who set a new university record of 49.6 in the quarter
mile and Charlie Curl, a sophomore who probably won
more points than any man on the squad as a dash man.
The team defeated Richmond, V. P. I., and William and
Mary.

The tennis team experienced a splendid season, al-
though taking no championships. Here was the only sport
in which the Wahoos showed marked supremacy but
Crenshaw’s men made clean sweeps of several meets and
the season was highly successful.

The golfers had another better-than-average season,

Richmond Boat Club took the
Generals’ measure on the James River to close the inter-
sectional competition.

Outstanding among the freshman teams for the year
were those in football, basketball, and wrestling. The foot-
ball yearlings won four before losing one to Maryland,
completely dominating things in the state. The basketball
squad went through a fourteen-game schedule without de-
feat for a state championship. The football team had also
annexed the state title. The frosh grapplers won all five
of their meets, which just means another year in which
Mathis’ first-year teams have gone undefeated.

With this prosperous looking supply of freshman tal-
ent graduating into varsity competition next year, the
sports outlook at Washington and Lee is bright, provided
all the men return.

RESULTS OF 1937 FOOTBALL SEASON
Washington and Lce, 205 Word ccciccccscciiicccsccsiccsccssvesscwsocvecest 0

Washington and Lee, 6; Richmond  .................cccccesesessseeeensnees 0
Washington and Lee, 0; West Virginia .............ccsssssseseeeseeees 6
Washington and Lee, 6; University of Kentucky...............0 41
Washington and Lee, 7; Virginia Polytechnic Institute......19
Washington and Lee, 0; Duke University 2.0... eee eeeee 43
Washington and Lee, 13; University of Virgimnia.................. 6
Washington and Lee, 14; William and Mary.........ccceeeeeeeees 12:5
Washington and Lee, 0; University of Maryland.................. 8
PROSPECTIVE 1938 FOOTBALL SQUAD LIST
Ends
Howard Dobbins, Louisville, Ky.................00. Soph 6-2 200
*Charles Lykes, Houston, Texas...............:seeeee Senior 6-1 190
*Birnie Harper, Fort Smith, Ark... Senior 6-0 175
Simmons Trueheart,Petersburg, Va................... Soph 6-0 170
Jack Gillespie, Columbus, Ohio....................06. Junior 5-10 175
Henry Baker, Newberry, S. C..........ccccccssssssssssees Soph 6-0 165
Lupton Avery, Chattanooga, Tenn..................00 Soph 6-0 180
Dl etwiat: Dotirtal | ROO PO ois issdsseccsdccgndandonsens Junior 6-0 170
Bob Gregerson, Hempstead, N. Y.................008 Soph 6-0 170
Fort Pipes, New Orleans, La...........cccccccsssssssrsrees Soph 6-0 170
Fitzgerald O’Bryan, Owensboro, Ky................. Soph 5-10 165
Jim Richardson, Norfolk, Va...........cccceeeeeeeeeees Soph 6-0 160
Bill Shannon, Shelbyville, Ky..................cccceeeeees Soph 5-9 165
Tackles
*Dick Boisseau, Petersburg, Va................ccceeee Junior 6-2 200
FIGS OCHS, > Fawr, ING? Bisestsdvnssssisessdtaptdcasnie Senior 6-0 190
*Dorsey Wilson, Versailles, Ky.................cccccees Senior 6-0 220
*Kelley Litteral, Ashland, Ky.................scccssessees Junior 6-0 200

[14]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Joe Kieltyica,. Yonkers, N.Y saiiscvcciacsnicistaiccitsasee Soph 6-2 200
Earl Studwell, Garden City, N. Y.............sseeeee Soph 6-3 200
FAA EV OLE, LONER SON Bons sciccdpivansinccctepacadecees Soph 5-11 185
SEE A CURSI§ EE ESNES- WW 10. ot pdccccencndacovcsdscdsoccedeconene Soph 5-11 180
John Alexander, Leesburg, Va.............cccccccceees Senior 6-0 200
Louis Schultz, Highland Park, Il... Junior 5-11 175
Guards
*Bill Brown (Captain), Toledo, Ohio............... Senior 5-10 180
Jim Lindsey, Rin@gold, Va... crcccscsccsscocesecsvcccccsaes Junior 5-10 200
PPPOE POET CBs TM OCOT FG, co ccunshacduacccesanatocetnoecs Soph 6-0 185
*Francis Sugrue, Naugatuck, Conn................... Junior 6-0 180
PE aT th UIT, AV, cnceecactebeebidedertchivegadeies Senior 6-0 180
Paul Muldoon, Chicago, [1b.....0.........c.cccesccccesess Junior 5-10 170
Bob Walker, Highland Park, IIl...................c0000 Soph 5-10 165
Jack Sutherland, Coldwater, Mich................... Senior 5-7 165
Centers
Steve Fanuasuc Tommecs, N.Y 3 ochii.c gical Soph 6-0 175
Jack Mangan, New Britain, Conmn................cccc00 Soph 5-10 175
Lee Ross Hammond, Clovis, New Mexico......Soph 6-0 180
Jean Friedberg, Buechel, Ky................cccseeeeeeeeees Soph 6-0 170
Fullbacks
*Merton Howard, Oroya, Peru............cccccsscseeees Senior 6-11 200
Alfred Bishop, Louisville, Ky..............csccccesssesees Soph 5-10 170
Bob Blanding, Roanoke, Va................ccccceeeeeeeeeees Soph 5-10 175
Halfbacks
Ray Crate, Citta FOrge, © V 8: Nieciccscossiviscciscatsss Senior 5-11 175
*Harrison Hogan, Mt. Pleasant, Mich............. Junior 6-0 175
EP TL, Ee Pept edeih ca cadpeadsncinadiccansach Soph 6-0 185
Courtney Wadlington, Shelbyville, Ky............. Soph 6-0 185
*Roy Hogan, Mt. Pleasant, Mich.................... Senior 5-10 170
Ronnie Thompson, Rockville Centre, N. Y.....Junior 5-10 170
SEDs PaeNNay TRAC PRIIOUNE-V GX but sites cose cckceisdsocedceceeces Soph 5-11 170
Bob Gary, -DeAaiOnt) 1 ORAS soc scc.. cicctaivcinatescrcedsae Soph 5-11 160
Quarterbacks
DCF ER,  DOTECSOO hy) scape Ness deed saccdicnce Soph 5-10 170
Dan: Tuetice,. Lyiciarg, V tisk. ccc Acdiigiss trends Soph 5-10 170
5-9 165

*Don Dunlap, Washington, D. C...........0. Senior

* Denotes letterman.

 

Joun H. Tucker, Jr., LL. B. 1910, member of the
Shreveport, Louisiana, bar, spoke at a symposium held in
connection with the dedication of Leche Hall law build-
ing of Louisiana State University on April 8. His topic
was “The Future of the Civil Law of Louisiana.”

 

A. Frep Wuirtes, who took his Ph. D. at Washington
and Lee in 1906, last month was named general superin-
tendent of the combined Donora Steel Works and the
Donora Wire Works of the American Steel and Wire
Company. He had been general superintendent of the
Donora Steel Works since May, 1929; announcement of
the consolidation of the two divisions was made from the
company’s offices in Cleveland. Before taking his Ph. D.,
Dr. White took an A. B., B.S. and M. A. at Washington
and Lee.

 

Tuomas Kennepy Heim, LL. B. 1895, and Mrs.
Kennedy led the Tavern Club Cotillion given by the Pen-
dennis Club at Louisville, April 23.

(Continued from page 12)

February 15
Gaines Speaks Before Virginia Legislature at Wil-
liamsburg . . . Troubadours Choose “Front Page” for
Spring Production . . . Princeton Beats Wrestlers .. .
Swimmers Sink Blue Devils . . . Lacrosse Team Plans
Big Year.
February 18

I-F Council Promises Aid to University in Sponsoring
Prep Basketball Tournament . . . Richberg Will Speak
Before Law Students... Ed Metcalfe Selected for Trou-
badour Lead... Zeta Beta Tau Named First in Scholar-
ship... Lambda Chi Alpha Announces Plans for New
House.

February 22

Senator Nye Is Secured for Peace Day Talk .. .
Washington and Lee Acquires New Lee Material by Giit
of Meyer Collection . . . Lee Portrait Given to Univer-
sity . . . Kansas State Downs Blue Matmen, 18-8...
Generals Conquer William and Mary, 61-40.

February 25

Phi Beta Kappa Selects Eighteen Men . . . Fancy
Dress Goes to a Party in Life Magazine... Plan for Re-
ligious Emphasis Week Announced . .. Frosh to Meet
Varsity in Post-Season Cage Tilt... Victory Over Fur-
man Clinches Generals a Bid to Conference Tourney.

March 1

Convention Proposed to End Boss Rule . . . Saxby
Tavel Selected as Valedictorian ... Untermeyer Named
to Give Talk Before Students on Some Phase of Con-
temporary Literature . . . Washington and Lee Board
Refuses to Yield to V. M. I. on Dance Controversy . . .
Faculty Accepts New Collegian Policy ... Interfraternity
Council Protests to Power Company on Electric Rates
... swimmers Sink University of Virginia to End Un-
defeated Season... Curl Hangs Up New 440 Record as
Blue Runners Place Fourth in Conference ... Frosh Five
Adds Two More Victories to Unbroken String.

March 4

Swimmers Crack Conference Medley Record While
Winning Fourth Successive Championship .. Don Bestor
Signed for Spring Dances ... Executive Committee Ap-
proves Amendment for Convention ... Religious Week
Activities Start . . . Watkin’s “On Borrowed Time”
Named Best Unappreciated Book of Year . . . Generals
Lose to Clemson in Second Round of Basketball Tourney
After Eliminating Carolina in Opener ... Keydets Nose
Out Washington and Lee in Conference Wrestling
Matches.—KReprinted from The 1938 Calyx.

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

HE CLASS OF 1913 gathered at Washington and Lee (gigas “s Ry Brinat,
° Y . . ‘ “* ‘e a 7 i i > . - - Sa a ey
during the University’s 189th Finals, and if one per- ahi ee nat tp ‘?
J es 1 ie ok ‘i oe
y

son could be held responsible for the success of the re-
union it was Philip P. (Pete) Gibson of Huntington,
West Virginia. Pete worked for more than six months on
the reunion plans and it was this constant effort to spread
information about the get-together that resulted in mak-
ing the twenty-fifth anniversary celebration one long to be
remembered.

Members of the class of 1914, watching the class of
1913 assemble after a quarter century, announced inten-
tions of holding their anniversary reunion next year; as a
result of the interest shown, the “twenty-fifth reunion
plan” promises to be carried on into the years. And credit
for actually putting the idea into operation must go to
Pete Gibson.

All available records, including the photographs on
this page and the Alumni Register, show that 37 men re-
turned for the reunion June 8, 9 and 10. There may have
been some who were back and who did not register or
missed the picture taken during the Alumni luncheon, but
it’s doubtful.

Special honor was paid the men of 1913 when alumni

ae eee

paused in their general meeting in restored Washington gigas: eae Rey are alee hee a

rs
a

Chapel to have all who were present for the reunion stand

 

up. Enthusiasm was evident in the applause that followed
from other old grads.

Telegrams were received from Bob Witt of San An- Th ie f ’ ’ Ti t
tonio, Texas, and S. C. Rose of West Point, Mississippi, e ass O 13 S wen y-

B. fe | : ee a —_ ia ie od : expressing regret they cot
Me aes os ce ee «2 extending good wishes to
be “ea Many who attended
distances ; some were not
who could not get back v
it was a reunion in every}

Pictured in the lower
today—changed, but still
bers of the team are dece
left vacant in the picture
one reproduced in the I¢
in 1913.

In the picture to the }
the class of 1913 who re

Bottom Row: P. C. B

 

en NNT Oe NE AO ORO ARO

Shown to the left is the Cl
Crist, Turbyfill, Peeples ce
dle row: Gilleylen, Potter,
row: Erwin (Manager), Jé
The picture to the right is

the twenty-fifth anniversar)
seats for those who are dé

 

a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Fitth Anniversary Reun

Inot attend the reunion and
he class.

ereunion came from great
‘far from Lexington ; those
reon the campus in spirit ;
nse of the word.

ght corner is the class team
he class team. Some mem-
sed; their places have been
which corresponds with the
tecorner showing the team

» of the page, members of
Ted are shown as follows:
lord, Roanoke, Virginia; J.

a

 

STeam of 1913. Bottom row:
tain), Bear, Richardson; mid-
‘avidson, Elliott, Gibson; top
Mick, Glass, Smith (Coach).
Fsame team photographed at
ass reunion; note the vacant
ed or who did not return.

=

 

 

E. Yonge, Miami, Florida; Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg,
Virginia; H. E. Potter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ; Lewis
Twyman, Miami, Florida; Thornton W. Allen, New York
City ; Dr. Herman Davidson, Chicago, Illinois; Philip P.
(Pete) Gibson, Huntington, West Virginia; Doak David-
son, Warriormine, West Virginia; Dr. J. P. Richardson,
Ellensburg, Washington; Wm. A. Hyman, New York,
New York.

Middle Row: Harry Moran, New York City; “Bill”
Raferty, Richmond, Virginia; Jim Quillin, Coeburn, Vir-
ginia; Judge John J. D. Preston, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia; “Thom” Kirkpatrick, Lynchburg, Virginia; Ben
Fiery, Cleveland, Ohio; Henry E. Peeples, Decatur,
Georgia; Roger Bear, Cincinnati, Ohio; John L,. Crist,
Charlotte, North Carolina.

Top Row: W. M. Minter, Fincastle, Virginia ; “Billy”
Wright, Tappahannock, Virginia; Judge Ben Haden, Fin-
castle, Virginia; Ed Sheffey, Washington, D. C.; Wm. H.
Womeldorf, Lexington, Virginia; Howard L. Robinson,
Clarksburg, West Virginia; Ed Lee, New York City;
O. D: Higginbotham, Lewisburg, West Virginia; Walter
L.. Tucker, Sandidges, Virginia; Dick Smith, Lexington,
Virginia; Ed S. Delaplaine, Frederick, Maryland; Fred
McWane, Lynchburg, Virginia; Paul D. Converse, Ur-
bana, Illinois; Rev. Harry Coffey, Covington, Virginia.

Those members who attended but were not in picture:
R. K. (Blackeye) Williams, Washington, D. C.; Herbert
W. Wyant, Harrisonburg, Virginia; Eugene C. Dicker-
son, Roanoke, Virginia.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Class Fund

Final Standing as of July |, 1938

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

***1869-91 ...... Se tnistacs SERENE biais ins vipnodoctactonen Alumni Office
*1892 12 MERE cadacadcundads cogchtetcasonn Hale Houston
*#*1893 13 MPN bo laa ved cca tik Abit sees B. A. Judd
1894 3 ENCE: ceciabivets codiiinbacalan’ Alumni Office
*#*1895 4 WIE gids cnt ud vanckeaianiins ods Alumni Office
PES Re piietesk Pe aigenasocts ERAN si sansbicbocateapianis cae H. H. Larimore
Fee centdsiscne ee agers BO chick! ecticsanktalaet soaks Alumni Office

FP IBSB...icdciceis ees. BABA sai caiintv cushion Edw. A. O’Neal
1899 10 67.50......Rev. Jas. A. McClure, D. D.
*1900 eo Be onto cis hiveah sin soleciaed J. R. Tucker
*** 190] 3 Ce iialac: mescstecdnadinns Clarence C. Burns
*#*19()2 14 Ree icinvksinbsievctias Dr. W. T. Ellis, Jr.
RP TG iis lesciccnes TO ict ccaias 112.00 R. A. Ruff
CP IOO ER . cinn sien Oe Lives CF a cited cin E. W. Poindexter
***1905.. 6. Blgicsthtcactscnecunns Walter G. Riddick
1906 AD: iP hadi cuntint aktoteasd Dr. F. R. Crawford
*1907..... 10... MA i Giscei nadvadtattecvente W. R. J. Dunn
***1908 A........ SES TR I hicks cn cccleccaaicetcansel John N. Bierer
***1908 L........ ERR ee” | SRS ana PN rele E. L. Beale
**1909 A......... Pe cctiee 125.00 0s ccerince Dr. Devall L. Gwathmey
*#*1009 L......... Oeatenacs PAF tics hstaotice cece Judge E. C. Caffrey
PERSE Piickonke 8G Gidisia BZG i Nashcsttivcdacchttetes Rayford W. Alley
1910 L,...00003 Bi con copii BAe tiie ane Orange W. Richardson
POP NG TE Ais esccts UD, ciuaisbaeih 118.00 oh fF. P. Guthrie
POT OTT To. siicess gies PR iit, elda kind nsechinne Omer T. Kaylor
POTTS AS Lh, asses TE saa baleen PIII ca coc cntcs siecuconcnasedeapbbnes® Dan Owen
WEEE Lijatiscnse | CE eee Bini cchsdininsehsdsvite Byron L. Ballard
FPRIOIS Aiceccss: BS, akin Mickie denn Edward S. Delaplaine
PRE Asschiesss ee AN sakiceionsdasnsts Howard L,. Robinson
***1914 A........ Bet i ccahovenaee Se ciideisioiesnntediegunteeed Roger J. Bear
CEOS a gpecscxis Pasi ieasd em iisicsscendnincckntes Samuel H. Williams
FTI OTS Pigvisies 5G. acaba SD etre ee sedan Paul C. Thomas
#21015 [.....2. 5 eae EO .cotdinniditevasanyoted Arthur M. Birdsall
1916 Acie. T pitileeetee EL cc. be eessasetiltanes ekeaiiewi Alumni Office
***1916 L......... Bh iccandaae a A hadikeesdcdnsinan Sam P. Kohen
EE i hssaenahe Pe ict tees MO So, cs teattisadansinanah Marion Sanders
PF Bepsstiantan | Pabserenteale A iitinsnsehosadnns Lafayette B. Chafin
***1918 A........ ye Sn OR Pho docnccncusnabanguiacessiiel A. S. Marx
SO cue. , ame 2°! Re a rales belies Alumni Office
*1919 A........ 14. dens Fede tin catcnees tahun Dr. T. Dewey Davis
9091919 Ly. ..00000 Sa iain, SE cks senvsescsbaieoenten Howard P. Arnst
***1920 A........ nianaesis PER eitks cade weckoshapilincs Randolph M. Cabell
4. Ate Cddtiks tovve PE Uckitasstssc epee onde L. Berkeley Cox
N92) Piscsivess Fei cieaue DE tia ckicesstianbemieubs John L,. Patterson
Pe OAL ic cksseee P sostawee de Se i habe nsoidiCietipcsatharehetavied John Bell
##* 1922 A....000 EB ahsnecbtane BO sisttedbcaetiediveesees Robert Howerton
#921922 Li..cecers Dastiicalaine Ee bevit.soaiece) Edmund D. Campbell
78 ~ a a Bet histhericteaakes D. Raymond Snively
PR errs oe te aaa. BM Secacenendugughnecannene George Holbrook
##*1924 A........ Pe A isu ch cinsabomaeovesesas Frank C. Switzer
###1924 L......... Bees Re ei. Randolph G. Whittle
PPOIG2S A ccicex bBiiekaseees SR seit ios cnicaetedtd H. Edward Rietze
981925 Toccceses baa WO ci il esc, caueetens George T. Clark
1926 Bie.ss Gesu Et tiieikss ciitienaiincls Paul M. Schuchart
#831926 Li. .cccees een Bebccenkdh cet cacanteee Robert O. Bentley
9081022 A. ivecsess Patiscenies UI A sdisvexcontibetues Kenneth A. Durham
99927 Basen Bee ST IN cinidecsdusocsaudailcidas C. Wells Little
71926 Bicone: isi oshavbes. Baek ciasvsicthivereighs +George F. Atwood
PROTO Ba seins Sa asteadesinns Bb SiO uscidheas stvvntadatigatags T. B. Bryant, Jr.
19 ZF Piscisisi PoaR viele Fs i Okancbideshyidescsouekdl Allen Morgan, Jr.

+ Killed in automobile accident, June 23, 1938.

 

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
0991929 Ti .ccenes Diihekesene TORIES; caansuaoscoees Ralph M. McLane
1930 As. 2.80 Deh sisicniates G1 De aiecteeincsnctnas Lawrence Y. Foote
FRE Ritson iachagsaoiah eaceheitl Benjamin L. Rawlins, Jr.
$00 103) A. 6c<c ares 70.50 Ben M. Ayars
OPT RL: Raresecess Deadadticwsad FAD. i vccvidirietacncditadies Walter Hoffman
EGO Wh cine Ea eneasties GB DO .icteatscbenstvtins Kemper Jennings
POR TIES Epicesscss D  teitedetias OU itectycrecubies Martin P. Burks, III
Oe 5 BOD a iiscvcccessuichenes Luther Violett, Jr.
#61933 L)....000 Sie. hein dcndddisdabind Donald K. Crawford
SPF IS34 Annies Leddeciess FARR casisccoapieentndgeee Ruge DeVan, Jr.
1934 Laicnus Sisictaieeeie EZ Av ainsi does ivtehend Thomas D. Anderson
1935 Ais: Oita BA csenctondiccoetia William Schuhle, Jr.
8 OSS TL iicivckas ii ectataali OP ihe ic tealteiteas nba! W. W. Brown
7FS19350 Biaindeses F costae OF: ii viciieaetioretuatasi Fletcher Maynard
SIT is iis cts = = Cagedaticatn bondaa dale Charles B. Cross
1037 Ac cigsss Re a GES iniccttididioenss Fielden Woodward
BOOT La sedcces oa 11.00 .Amos Bolen
1938-39 ...... Ps tesdoat LO ei ica sscocatnesennieen Alumni Office
LOT Zitat eudsiotae Ba chabenecsutvcoseatintied Alumni Office
és 1 Per fy Ge ae $5018.24

 

W. and L. Men In Foreign Service

WASHINGTON AND LEE students are showing a stead-
ily increasing interest in training for foreign trade and
foreign service.

This is indicated, records of the School of Commerce
and Administration show, by the number of recent grad-
uates who have obtained employment with large export-
ing firms.

When these men were attending Washington and Lee,
they specialized in the foreign service group of courses of-
fered by the School of Commerce and Administration.

The foreign service group of courses offered at the
University includes Ocean Trade and Transportation, In-
land ‘Transportation, International Trade, Foreign Trade
Technique, International Relations, Comparative Gov-
ernment, American Diplomatic History, and numerous
other related subjects.

Within the last twelve months five Washington and
Lee graduates have entered foreign trade as a career.

Carl Arenz, of Baltimore, Maryland, who received the
B.S. in Commerce degree in 1937, is now located with
the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company in Java. Vincent B.
Earley, of Wells, New York, who finished his work for
the B. S. in Commerce degree in February of this year,
is also employed by the same company in Bombay, India.

Theodore M. Plowden, of Gable, South Carolina,
B.S. in Commerce, 1937, is located with the United States
Rubber Export Company in New York City. Donald D.
Vandling, of Ambridge, Pennsylvania, B.S. in Com-
merce, 1938, has secured a position with the United States
Steel Products Company in New York. James K. Butler,
of Murfreesboro, Tennessee, B. S., 1937, is now with
W. R. Grace and Company, New York City, where he is
training for work in South America.

[18]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Minutes of General Alumni Meeting

June 10, 1938

HE meeting was called to order at 2 p. m. by the
Tce Mr. Clarence L,. Sager, who introduced Dr.
Gaines for his customary speech of welcome to returning
alumni.

Dr. Gaines: “This word I say may be conventional,
but it is true—that this institution is extremely glad to
welcome back its alumni. The Commencement may be a
season of joy and sorrow; the sorrow is saying goodbye
to the fine boys you saw this morning, but the joy is greet-
ing their predecessors on this campus. Mr. Sager has sug-
gested that it might be in order for me to also welcome
you to this particular room, as we feel a peculiar thrill in
this room. This unit of Washington College was built by
Colonel John Jordan, and this room in its present propor-
tions was the first chapel. ... As you know, in General
Lee’s time the present chapel was built and this room was
cut up into classrooms. When we remodeled and fire-
proofed the buildings, we discovered on an old blueprint

the design of this room and restored it as the ancient,

chapel. It is now used partly for classroom work and partly
for an auditorium. We hope you will remember you are
seated in exactly the same room your predecessors used
more than a century ago. ... I left one item out of my
bulletin to you. I believe we have a more intelligent and
loyal cooperation from our former sons than we have ever
had before. Your own officers will tell you about the re-
sponse to the alumni movement this time. Those of us who
stand here are fortified by your counsel, your effort and
by your presence at stated occasions on this campus.”

On motion, the reading of the minutes of the last meet-
ing was dispensed with.

Report of Secretary. Mr. Young digressed from his
written report to draw attention to the Law Class of 1925,
whose agent, George T. Clark, had wired just before the
meeting that he had received a letter from the last man in
his class from whom he had not heard, thus achieving a
one hundred percent response to his class letters.

Treasurer's report.On motion, this report was adopted
and filed.

President's report. Mr. Sager: “I was telling Cy of a
thing that occurred here in 1914, and he asked me to re-
peat it to you. It impressed itself on my mind. The eve-
ning before our Commencement exercises I was in Henry
Boley’s store and in came a very woebegone looking man.
He asked a few questions, and it turned out he was an

alumnus and he was looking for something—and not a
drink. He was looking for another alumnus. ‘The man said
he had graduated fifteen years before and he had planned
for a long time to come back and meet with his fellow
alumni, but he hadn’t found even one. After this era came
Ed Caffrey as president and then came Walter McDonald,
who started this grand class agent plan, and that brings
us to where we are today. Merely to point out that inci-
dent of twenty-four years ago and then look at the num-
ber gathered here today is comment enough on the prog-
ress we are making. We are making progress not only in
numbers but in the intelligent interest that the alumni are
taking in alumni affairs and the University, and after all,
that is what makes the difference. There is every reason to
be very proud of what we are doing. We feel that with
this report for 1938, it looks as if we can fairly count ev-
ery year on hearing from 700 of our alumni. I think Cy
pointed out to you that we have heard from a great many
more than this. -We have heard from at least 700 more
who did not send contributions but who replied to the let-
ters of their class agents. We can also count, it seems, on
about $5,000 every year to support the work of the Alumni
Association, and not only that, but we hope that it may
soon increase to a point where the fund may be raised for
specific purposes to help the University. We hope the fund
will grow so that this may be done. Having reached a
point where we seem to be pretty well established, you can
always look about and see ways of improving things. The
thing in the minds of most alumni is that we need to look
toward the ideal of reaching more alumni, having more
representative means of carrying out the work we are try-
ing to do. In other words, we must be more democratic in
the way we do things. What we would like to do, and this
comes from our own Board, is to be very sure that what-
ever we are doing does represent the views of the alumni
at large and doesn’t represent the views of just the mem-
bers of the Board of Trustees. We will have read to you a
resolution dealing with that question. We are going to
have a committee to consider the question as to whether
we can do anything along this line. It is just in the ex-
ploratory stages at the moment. Beyond this, I have noth-
ing to say to you. It has been a great pleasure to me to
have served for two terms as President of the Associa-
tion. | appreciate the support of all those who have helped
me, particularly the class agents. | want to thank you all

[19]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

for the support you have given me during the past two
years.”

Report of Resolutions Committee by John Bell Towill.

Resolved: By the Board of Trustees of The
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., at
its meeting held this 10th day of June, 1938.

That it be recommended to the General Meet-
ing of the Alumni to be held this date that :

Article VI of the By-Laws of the association
be amended by adding the following language :

In the event the Board of Trustees of the As-
sociation determine that a vote of the alumni is
necessary or desirable at any time other than at an
annual or called meeting of the association, it shall
be proper to submit to the membership in general
such written proposal as may be approved by such
board, to be voted upon or otherwise acted upon by
a mail vote of the members, to be received and as-
certained within thirty days of the date of such
notice to the membership ; and any proposal so sub-
mitted and voted upon by mail shall be deemed
adopted or determined by an affirmative vote of not
less than sixty per centum of the entire mail vote
so returned within such period of thirty days, pro-
vided the entire number of votes cast or received
within such period be not less than one hundred.
Any action so determined shall have like force and
effect as if submitted and acted upon at any an-
nual or other meeting of the association.

There was some discussion following this, Judge Caf-
frey apparently not being entirely in sympathy with it,
but after further explanation, on motion it was carried.

Report of Nominating Committee. Mr. Hodges and
Mr. Miller were the selections of the Nominating Com-
mittee for members of the Board of Trustees. Tom Glas-
gow placed in nomination from the floor the name of Dr.
William Allan, which was seconded. Mr. Henry Peeples
nominated from the floor Dr. Dick Fowlkes, which was
seconded. Nominations were then closed and a vote by
ballot taken. Dr. Allan and Dr. Fowlkes were elected to
the board. The Nominating Committee brought in the
names of Charles Glasgow and M. W. Paxton for resi-
dent members of the Athletic Council and Ran Cabell and
Willis Everett for non-resident members. There were no
further nominations, and these men were elected.

Presentation of Thomas Nelson Page Award by Dr.
Gaines to Robert P. Hobson of Louisville. At this time
Dr. Gaines also made the announcement that the Execu-
tive Committee of the University Board had authorized
the finding of a room in the University as a permanent
memorial to the Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit in
the World War, and the collection of trophies for this

room. This had been suggested to the University Board
by a resolution passed by the Alumni at its meeting a
year ago.

It was moved and seconded that the secretary write
George Clark a note of gratitude on behalf of the alumni
for his achievement as a class agent.

Presentation of a silver dish to Mr. Sager as retiring
president by the secretary.

Presentation of a silver cigarette case to Judge Caffrey
for his services to the alumni in acting as its president
from 1922 to 1931, by Tom Glasgow.

Mr. Glasgow also moved that Henry Boley be made
an honorary member of the Washington and Lee Alumni,
which was seconded and passed.

Mr. Billy Wright moved that an additional member of
the Board be elected by the general alumni at the meeting,
and a great deal of discussion arose as to whether this
would be constitutional. The discussion showed signs of
degenerating into a baiting match between the Virginia
lawyers present, and Mr. Sager called for a motion that
the meeting stand adjourned, which was seconded and
passed.

 

Notes on a Few Alumni in D.C.

The Alumni Office was much interested in the follow-
ing notes on alumni in the District of Columbia. It’s a de-
parture from tradition not to put them under the class
notes, but here they are, anyway:

CHARLIE SuUTER, 1932, vice-president of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Club, is an insurance agent with
offices in Union Trust Building, Washington.

CHARLES PRITCHARD, 1934, is with the Washington
office of American Air Lines.

PacE BLEDSOE and Bup HANLEy, former football
captains at Washington and Lee, are graduating in law at
George Washington University.

Tom EvERNGAM, 1932, is an attorney for the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation.

ELwoop SEAL, 1916, is Corporation Counsel for the
District of Columbia.

“Bic ISLAND” RovuvTon is the star shortstop of J. Ed-
gar Hoover’s G-man baseball team.

Bitty Davis, 1930, former Ring-tum Phi editor, is
with the Washington bureau of the Associated Press.

CoLLas Harris, 1931, is with the National Archives.

Henry (Tim) SAaunpeErs, 1932, is in the insurance
business in the Capital.

GEORGE Price, 1931, Lambda Chi and former editor
of the Ring-tum Phi, works for the United States Depart-
ment of Labor.

FraNnK Patron, 1934, formerly with the Justice de-
partment, is now practicing law in Leesburg, Virginia.

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Alumni Secretary’s 1937-38 Report

N looking over past reports I have made on the ac-
(3 tivities of the year I have said that I want to give
you as briefly as I can in fairness to the duties and respon-
sibilities of the Alumni Office, a report of what your As-
sociation has been doing. This report will be no exception,
for I feel that it would take volumes and a lot of your
time to give a complete picture of a year’s work in the
Alumni Office. I will avoid details and will give you a few
high spots of the year’s work.

In any national organization such as ours, success is
dependent upon the activity of its local groups. I believe I
can say truthfully that our local chapters this year have
been more active than ever. In looking over the past year’s
issues of the ALUMNI MaGazine I find that meetings
have been held by these chapters in fifteen states. I am
often asked at organization meetings or when attending
an alumni meeting of a chapter which has been established
for some time: ‘““What can we do to help?” There are, of
course, many things, but my stock answer is, “Send us the
right kind of boy.’’ On many occasions in recent years |
have heard Dr. Gaines say that the University’s problem
is not to get more students, but to get more of the right
kind of students. I know that an alumnus of this institu-
tion is in a better position to pass on the qualifications of
a prospective student than anyone else. If you had time to
digest our Student Register you would find that the largest
groups of students come from localities where we have
active chapters. You may not be fortunate enough to have
a son of your own whom you hope to send here, but I am
sure some business associate or friend has an outstanding
boy and you can do your best to interest him in Washing-
ton and Lee. We are quite proud of the fine representa-
tion of Sons of Alumni now attending the University. All
of you received last fall the bulletin giving this informa-
tion. There are seventy-five sons of alumni now in the
University. We hope to increase this number each year.

The detail work in the Alumni Office is about as re-
ported in past years, except that it has almost doubled in
volume and this is quite a problem with our present office
force. I feel, however, that our records are in better shape
than ever before and it is our aim to keep them as nearly
up to the minute as possible. We are not infallible and
some of you may getting your mail at an old address, but
we are not mind-readers and have no way of keeping up
with you unless you give us this information. Many of
you have received our tracer cards asking for informa-
tion on alumni who have been lost. Most of these are re-

turned promptly and your cooperation is greatly appre-
ciated.

The Alumni Office was as busy as usual after the open-
ing of school in September making preparation for Home-
coming. As is the case with every other activity of the As-
sociation, this big event of the year is steadily growing. I
believe that Homecoming this year was one of the most
successful we have ever had. The success of the event
does not depend upon whether or not our football team
wins or loses, but it may be noted here that our series of
victories over the University of Virginia at these Home-
coming games has added greatly to the happiness of the
occasion.

I have not gone over the president’s report with him,
but I am sure he will tell you about the Alumni Fund
created by the Class Agent Plan. To my mind the action
of the Alumni Board of Trustees in 1933 in deciding to
follow this plan to finance your Association and increase
Alumni interest in the University, was the biggest step
ever taken by this organization. When the plan was first
presented, I, for one, was very dubious and had many mis-
givings as to its success. I believe now I am one of its
most enthusiastic supporters. The benefits derived from it
cannot be measured in dollars and cents. I do not believe
that anyone could have more enthusiasm for this plan than
the people who are handling it, and I believe you would
have the same enthusiasm if you had an opportunity to
read the many fine letters that are received by the class
agents expressing devotion to the institution. The most
enthusiastic letters received are the ones coming from
alumni who are not in a position to contribute. We are
always glad to get constructive criticism, and we get
plenty of it, but there has not been a disagreeable note to
date in a letter received this year.

In my travels I see so many alumni who say they think
well of the Class Agent Plan but have neglected to give
their class agents a reply. To these men I always say,
“Whether or not you can send a contribution, you at least
owe your Class Agent the courtesy of a reply to his letter.”

Only we in the Alumni Office know of the detailed and
enthusiastic work these Class Agents are doing for your
Association and the University. They are the backbone of
your organization. In my last bulletin to Class Agents
each year I always thank them the best I know how, but I
want to take this occasion to thank them publicly.

You will find attached to the Treasurer’s Report which
you have before you, a report of the standing of the va-

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

rious classes as of June 9. This report does not show the
number of contributors and amount of contributions in
past years, but I am happy to report to you that this is
the best year we have had both in number of contributors
and amount contributed.

In past years the months of July and August have
brought us several hundred dollars from belated contribu-
tors and I have every reason to believe that when the
books are closed on the Alumni Fund October 1, we will
have surpassed our goal of seven hundred contributors
‘ and five thousand dollars.

Respectfully submitted,

Harry K. Younc, Alumni Secretary

 

John W. Davis Is Honored

Joun W. Davis, member of the University’s Board of
Trustees, was awarded a gold medal for distinguished
service to humanity by the National Institute of Social
Sciences in New York City on May 5. Mr. Davis is a for-
mer ambassador to Great Britain and a former president
of the American Bar Association. The medal was one of
three awarded, the other two going to Walter S. Gifford,
president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Com-
pany, and Miss Dorothy Thompson of the New York
Herald-Tribune.

Mr. Davis was awarded the medal for his attainments
in jurisprudence and in upholding the ideals of Ameri-
canism. Thomas D. Thacher, former United States dis-
trict judge, in making the award at a dinner held at the
Waldorf-Astoria, extolled the Washington and Lee alum-
nus as “pre-eminently a great barrister.”

 

Rice's Book Is Well Received

The Man Who Insulted Somerville, a new book by
Jennings Rice, class of 1922, has received considerable
favorable attention from reviewers throughout the coun-
try. Rice now lives at 52 St. Mark’s Place, St. George,
Staten Island, New York.

Some excerpts from a few of the reviews give an idea
of how well liked the book has become:

The New York Sun said: “For here’s a crackling
comedy of manners, a mystery, and a revelation of the
older sort of Main Street, put together by the hand of an
artist and written with economy and sober wit.”

Marion Sturges-Jones, writing in the New York
Herald-Tribune, said: “The Man Who Insulted Somer-
ville is a long, leisurely novel, every page of which is a
lasting delight.”

Treasurer's Report to Alumni
Year Ending June 1, 1938

RECEIPTS
Batik Malance; june: 1 49S72:...7..casiaks. 51 $2,755.85
Alumni Contributions from Class Fund ............. 4,785.74
Magazine Subscriptions .s.i....026.......ij.cccgdeceoess sstenss 335.00
Dimer A eres 556566 so pe cin ins packs gpm tes 139.40
FECTORNL STOR ASR FROIN, 5.058165 Sesh h fst eg 12.72
etutid. for-Class Bualleting....63225.0556. 4-08.00 26.60
Re-deposit of Returned Check.........0...0.0000.00054 10.00
$8,065.31
DISBURSEMENTS
Office: Seipelies:..i [ene oka ee $ 343.99
PORE: K5GN ES. ot ih eee aldo 180.36
Pubic tts se a AR 102.35
FOASTBOP PRI 6520 Be) ce ociidids idan ante bess Sadadd Vaccek eased 105.50
WI MaAR SIR rs bask ai iai rishi cece sates. -ov5 eeep tnd inrtoeaes 1,364.17
Giabaw tee Sect ih Tt ti SCR aac oso Heb te ia 1,289.00
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers..................0....... 455.44
T¥avelin Feapense 60.536. ah 2 idhiae el 253.34
Class “Fae toxpenae: iis a iiwe cs 927.36
Cameras Sees! iS Uh ee i ee 137.23
PUTRI AMIIINES 254550008, Uae accct ls caddegtattncabhn ee abeah 146.27
$5,305.01
RECAPITULATION
ReCON DR fi Ee ota As et $8,065.31
EbpaberP eerie sis cascade Ge hc eee 5,305.01
$2,760.30
TRIAL BALANCE
Dr. Gr,
Magazine Advertising........................ $ 139.40
TRIOS ns acta tata idesng SEO $ 105.50
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers...... 455.44
Alumni Contributions to Class Fund 4,785.74
Alumni Fund Expense...................... 914.64
General Account (Net Worth)........ 2,755.85
WEAN 555 AE. csi on oe Saves 1,029.17
WE IOOS 658 hei Oh aes ia. i, 109.67
Camera and Supplies.......................... 137.23
COMICS TDR oo. sec carco ses cones 343.99
PII 915. fs StS atl, dota beatae 180.36
ei og 7 fat ae pie ee 102.35
Reemoridwe Bawls 54. 3/-5..:5.c4, hts 2,760.30
SeneNe'S : PROAINNE h a spo, eds stdriee char 1,289.00
Traveling Account........:....:.cec..e0sse00e 253.34

 

$7,680.99 $7,680.99

[22]

beds “"y

sia
oe ‘

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Younc, Alumni Secretary

N the make-up of this Magazine we place the Class Notes
at the end for several reasons, chief among which is
that many of the letters received from alumni state that
the class notes are the most interesting part. They are all
anxious to have news of their friends. Perhaps you have
tried to find the class notes first, before taking a squint at
this column. I am sure a lot of you pass it up entirely. If
you have done this you may note that our class notes are
not .so numerous in this issue. We have so much ma-
terial that after talking it over with our Managing Editor,
Dick Carter, it was decided that in view
of the many classes represented at Finals,
I could give you more up-to-date infor-
mation on many of our classmates. Why ?
Because on looking through the list of
of those who registered at Finals, we find
that every class from 1889 to 1937 is
represented. There are times during the
year when your secretary is scrambling
for news enough to make this column in-
teresting. Today he is trying to keep it
down to two pages.

I have before me the Alumni Regis-
ter with approximately three hundred
names of men who were good enough to
stop by Alumni Headquarters and sign on the dotted line.
Space forbids my mentioning all of these men and I am
going to try to cover the whole ground although many
names have been omitted, and too, some of the signatures
are very illegible, caused, I am sure, by the signer either
being in a hurry or emotionally upset by meeting old
friends and not what you are thinking.

 

Before telling a little about all of our friends who are
registered I would like to say that in my twenty-five years’
connection with Washington and Lee, I believe this is the
most successful Finals we have ever had. We had more
alumni back than ever before, approximately six hundred,
to say nothing of the perfect weather, the fine orchestras
and the lovely ladies present. As a student I always felt
that Washington and Lee men were tops when it came to
picking girls, and from the ones that I had the pleasure
of meeting they are still tops in picking wives.

When any of us are attending an event such as Finals,
some particular thing stands out as a high-point. ‘To me,
the most important thing this Finals was the fine reunion
held by the Class of 1913. Forty men, most of them with
their wives, returned for their twenty-fifth reunion and

 

this particular gathering undoubtedly had a lot to do with
the most successful Finals ever held at Washington and
Lee.

At this point I want to take off my hat to our friend
Pete Gibson for getting this crowd together. Elsewhere in
this magazine you will find pictures of this group. I want
to call your attention to the football team of twenty-five
years ago. In the original picture there were fourteen. Two
of them are deceased and ten of them were here. The pic-
ture was taken in the identical spot of the one of twenty-
five years ago, vacant places being left
for the absentees.

If I had time I would digest the
Alumni Register that I have before me
and tell you of the men according to their
classes, but this would be quite a job and
instead I am going to say a word or two
about most of these men as I come to
them.

The first name I see is that of M.
Peele Rivers, 1933, from Louisville, Ken-
.tucky. Peele came on Saturday to see his
many friends about town before the fes-
tivities started. He is now in the insur-
ance business.

The next is Walter Wilkins, 1914, Pine Bluff, Ark-
ansas. Walter was here with his whole family. One son
finished his freshman year and another is to come several
years hence.

Here is Jack McNeil, 1934, of Brooklyn, New York.
Jack could have been the first to register because he came
two weeks early, and is still here.

In a very bold hand I find the name of Henry Peeples,
1913, the first of the twenty-fifth reunion men to register.
If I had to choose the alumnus who enjoyed himself most,
Henry would be my No. 1 choice.

The name of Walter McDonald, 1910, also appears in
a very bold hand. When Walter was serving as our alumni
president he made several trips a year to the campus, but
this was his first in two years. He also came early to visit
his many friends in Lexington before the crowd began to
assemble and to make a tour of our new and reconstructed
buildings which he had not seen. If not a single other
alumnus had returned Walter would have had a good
time in Lexington because he has as many friends among
the towns-people as among the alumni.

In beginning this column I intended to tell you of the

[23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

wide area from which our alumni gathered. The name of
Grover Batten, 1908, recalls this. Grover came from Hon-
olulu and he tells me it took him nine days to get here. He
was here for two purposes, to see his many friends and to
see his son graduate.

Speaking of distances, here is the name of Raymond
Womeldorf, 1917, from Hwaianfu, Ku, China. The war
ran Ray out of China and he says it came at a good time
as it gave him an opportunity to be on hand for Finals.
And here is Dr. Ned Waddell, 1930, registered from
Twillingate, Newfoundland. To go to the other extreme,
Lewis Twyman, 1913, from Miami, Florida. R. L. Hut-
ton, of 1908, came from Kansas City, and Rene Tallichet,
1936, registered from El Paso, Texas.

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 1913, took advantage of the
twenty-fifth anniversary of his graduation to visit his
mother, who lives in Lexington. Herman is now practic-
ing medicine in Chicago.

Benjamin A. Judd, 1893, came down from New York
and spent a great deal of time around Alumni Headquar-
ters renewing old friendships.

In an informal gathering on Thursday afternoon |
listened intently to the reminiscences of a group of alumni
of the early nineties; J. T. Drake, 1889, from Port Gib-
son, Mississippi; John W. Davis, Herbert Fitzpatrick,
E. L. Green and Hale Houston, all of 1892. I am wonder-
ing if the rest of us will be as enthusiastic as these men
are after being out for nearly fifty years.

Roger Bear, another thirteener, was here and I am
telling you—not asking—did he have a good time?

I see George Gilleland, last year’s leader of the Final
Ball, registered from Daytona Beach, Florida, and follow-
ing him is the name of Izzie Foreman, 1911, from Eliza-
beth, New Jersey.

One of our good class agents, Dr. W. T. Ellis, 1902,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, enjoyed the festivities.

Here is our usual Charleston, West Virginia, delega-
tion: the Fitzhughs, Norman and Norman, Jr., 1898 and

1935, respectively; Dr. John Moore, 1889; and John .

Thomas, 1934. It is seldom that either one of the Thomas
brothers misses an opportunity to return to Lexington.
Bill Kell, 1923, and John Preston, 1913, two more of our
Charleston, West Virginia, alumni.

Jimmie Castner, 1929, registered from East Orange,
New Jersey, and Don Wallis, 1935, a past leader of the
Fancy Dress Ball, still calls Stinesville, Indiana, home.
Senator William A. Wright, 1913, “Billy” to you, regis-
tered from ‘Tappahannock, Virginia. It takes a class re-
union to get Billy back, but his friends say it is worth
waiting a long time to see him.

Howard Robinson, 1913, was responsible for the law-
yers of this fine class returning. He is one of our most en-
thusiastic class agents.

It seems these men of 1913 registered in groups. Here
is Thornton Allen from New York, known as the man
who wrote and publicized the Washington and Lee
“Swing”; our good friend Purver Richardson came all
the way from Ellensburg, Washington, with his two at-
tractive young daughters to celebrate his twenty-fifth re-
union. Following these are the names of William Abromo-
vitz Hyman and G. Doak Davidson, from Warriormine,
West Virginia, also of the class of 1913, and W. L.
Tucker, of Sandidges, Virginia.

Stu Wurzburger and Bill Owen, two members of the
class of 1928, registered from New York City. Following
these two distinguished gentlemen are the names of John
McCord, 1918, and Ben Fiery, 1913, of Cleveland, Ohio.
For several years Ben has acted as class agent for the
class of 1913, and gave Pete Gibson a great deal of as-
sistance in arranging for the reunion.

Here is P. D. Converse, 1913, from Urbana, Illinois,
now a most respected member of the University of Illinois
faculty, and Harry Moran, 1913, from New York City,
who made baseball history at Washington and Lee with
his left-hand pitching. John Crist, 1913, came up from
Charlotte, North Carolina along with Tommy Glasgow,
1912.

Ernest Beale, 1908, from Franklin, Virginia, was here
to celebrate his thirtieth anniversary since graduation.
Ernest has had two sons in school, one of whom is presi-
dent-elect of next year’s student body.

Speaking of alumni who have or have had sons here,
I see the Wilson family registered en masse: Larry W.,
1910; Larry W., Jr., and Fillmore F., 1937. There will be
another added to this list next year when Ben graduates.
‘Miss Jane” was with them.

Jimmie Caskie, 1906, always comes for the Board of
Trustees meeting and remains for the festivities.

Don Boyer, 1908, from Richmond, Virginia, registered
next, and then comes Joe Lykes, 1909. Elsewhere in this
issue you will find that Joe is to be our Alumni President
for next year. The Alumni Association and the University
are to be congratulated on the choice of our new president.

John Bell Towill, 1929, from Augusta, Georgia, stop-
ped by Orangeburg, South Carolina, and brought his good
friend T. B. Bryant, 1928, with him.

Here is a member of the class of 1932, Tom Hancock,
from Morocco, Indiana. Martin Burks of this same class
was present, as was George Price, from Washington,
D.C, ~

Mike Bristow and Ki Williams represented the class
of 1915; and could there be any kind of a Washington
and Lee gathering without the name of Harry St. George
Tucker Carmichael, 1899, and Dr. Morrison Hutcheson,
1902, both members of the University Board of Trustees.
Following Harry’s name is that of Ran Cabell, 1920, an-

[24]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

other regular, and a class agent whose class ranked No. 1
in the number of contributors this year.

William Caufield “Bill” Raftery, 1915, now registers
from Richmond, Virginia. Bill had a grand time reminis-
cing with his many friends in the class of 1913.

I finally prevailed upon Clarence Sager, our retiring
president, to register. Clarence is like the rest of us when
it comes to registering.

You can always count on L. J. Boxley, 1909, and Earl
Fitzpatrick, 1929, both from Roanoke, to be present. An-
other alumnus from Roanoke was Paul Buford, 1913,
whose many friends were glad to see him.

The nearby city of Lynchburg registered the follow-
ing: Peyton Winfree, 1934; Mosby Perrow, Jr., 1930;
Reid Graves, 1924; Thurman Boyd, 1915; Fred McWane,
1913; Carter Glass, Jr., 1913; Powell Glass, 1907. We
can also list Powell, Jr., for he graduated this year. R. C.
Wood, 1921, and Bob Ramsey, 1914, were here. There
were many others from the “Hill City” who did not reg-
ister.

One man who had not been back in twenty-five years,
and I am sure had a good time, was J. E. “Skinny” Yonge,
from Miami, Florida. Skinny says he will have a son here
within a few years.

George “Gee” Haw, 1904, was another of our Rich-
mond alumni who was enjoying himself. Paul Thomas of
Bluefield was present with his family. Paul, Jr., is enter-
ing the freshman class next year.

“Uncle Dan” Owen, 1912, and Ed Caffrey, 1909, had
their usual good time.

It so happens that three of our very good class agents’
names appear together : Ran Tucker, 1900 ; Ed Delaplaine,
1913; and Ran Whittle, 1924.

Any time Pete Gibson returns the old home town of
Huntington, West Virginia, is well represented. This year
Pete brought Selden McNeer, 1916, and Elliott Vawter,
1909, and their attractive wives.

Lack of time and space make it impossible to include
all the names of these good friends of ours who have reg-
istered, and many others we had the pleasure of seeing
who did not register.

I will soon be starting my annual summer trek and |
hope to have the pleasure of seeing many of you on your
native heath. To those of you that I do not see, I wish you
a most pleasant summer, and we will get together again
next October for a chat in this column. I will be out of
the office most of the summer, but if your travels should
bring you through Lexington, be sure and stop by and pay
a visit to the Alumni Office. Someone will be there to greet
you and we are always glad to have you drop in. Many
of you can give us news of your classmates that will be

interesting to others.

 

 

   

se 3
: a
x ¥ = ae
tad 5

wn ‘ £ Pe 3

  

ete ihe
Pictured above is a reproduction of the original design of the
seal of Washington and Lee University by Francis Davis
Millet. The original was presented to Washington and Lee by
the American Academy of Arts and Letters of New York at
the request of Mrs. William H. Booth of Urbanna, Virginia,
who is a niece of the late Mr. Millet. The design has been

framed and hung in the University museum in the
basement of Lee Chapel.

 

Marriages

Lewis W. Martin, B. S. 1935, and Miss Kathryn Lee
Lewis were married at the First Methodist Church in
Jasper, Alabama, April 16.

Epwin HENKEL Pewirr, A. B. 1934, and Miss Ger-
trude Caffrey were married at Chevy Chase, Md., April 2.

RicHArD Este Goocu, A. B. 1930, and Miss Eliza-
beth Roderick Cole were married April 18 at the Church
of the Resurrection, Richmond Hill, New York.

Rosert BERGEN McCracken, A. B. 1930, and Miss
Virginia Leonard were married April 9.

DANIEL WEISIGER Linpsay, Jr., A. B. 1930, and Miss
Eugenia Macon Knox were married at St. Stephen’s
Episcopal Church in Richmond, Virginia, on April 9.

STUART SANDERS II, class of 1931, and Miss Adelina
Hall were married on April 14 at the First Methodist
Church in Decatur, Georgia.

 

Mr. AND Mrs. JoHN Cooper Morrison are the par-
ents of a son, John Cooper Morrison III, born on March
23; Morrison received his LL.B. at W-L in 1925.

A daughter, Judith Laurel, was born March 29 to Mr.
AND Mrs. FrEp E. PALmerr. Palmer received his A. B. at
the University in 1931.

[25]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Baltimore

BALTIMORE ALUMNI held the last of a series of weekly
luncheon meetings on May 26. Phil Seraphine, secretary
of the group, reported success in the “experiment” with
weekly get-togethers, and said the same scheme undoubt-
edly will be followed when the meetings are resumed in
the fall.

Those who attended the May 26 luncheon included :

William Mellin Ballou, Herbert H. Butler, Matthew
Page Andrews, F. Stanley Porter, Charles T. Smith, John
Rouse, President L,. Waters Milbourne, Oscar Randolph
Price, Charles Sloan Funkhouser, Philip J. Seraphine, Jr.,
A. H. Chandler, J. Carl Fisher, James M. Marshall, Ralph
Hanger, Eugene P. Martin, Gray W. Hume, Clyde Comp-
ton, William Adelson and Donald S$. Levinson.

Hollywood, Florida

THE ANNUAL Washington and Lee breakfast, at the
meeting of the Florida State Bar Association, was held
May 7 at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, Hollywood, Fila.

The following were present:

Senator Scott M. Loftin, 1899, Jacksonville; Martin
Caraballo, Tampa (President, Florida State Bar Asso-
ciation) ; Dozier DeVane, 1908, Orlando; Judge Paul D.
Barns, 1917, Miami; Herman F. Ulmer, 1917, Jackson-
ville; Horner Fisher, 1916, West Palm Beach; Russell
L. Frink, 1910, Jacksonville.

Lewis Twyman, 1913, Miami; C. I. Carey, 1909, St.
Petersburg; C. Edmond Worth, 1916, Tampa; Morey
Dunn, 1913, West Palm Beach; G. W. Thames, 1930,
Jacksonville; Russell O. Morrow, 1929, West Palm
Beach; T. J. Ellis, 1923, Miami; George T. Clark, 1925,
Miami.

Parkersburg

Tuer PARKERSBURG Alumni chapter held its annual
dinner at the Elks Club the evening of April 20. Present
were : James S. McCluer, 1899 ; Claude Light, 1906 ; Rob-
ert B. McDougle, 1917; Judge E. B. Pennybacker, 1918;
J. D. Ankrom and James L. Feeney, all former students
at the University, and Allen Overton.

E. B. Pennybacker was re-elected president of the
chapter and Claude Light was elected secretary. The
Alumni scholarship from the Chapter for the session of
1938 and 1939 was awarded to Allen Overton.

Danville

WITH MORE THAN 30 ALUMNI and students as a
nucleus, Washington and Lee men residing in the Old
Tobacco Belt of Piedmont Virginia and North Carolina
organized at an informel banquet at the Danville Golf
Club on June 20. This newest association is to be known
as the Old Belt alumni association.

With Cy Young on hand as guest speaker to help with
formation of the group, Dr. Charlie Wilson, 1924, of Dan-
ville, was elected as the first president. Senator Bill Tuck,
1921, of South Boston, Virginia, was installed as vice-
president and Bill Taylor, 1927, of Danville, is the new
secretary-treasurer. John Boatwright of Danville and Bill
Stone, 1932, of Martinsville, Virginia, were elected ex-
ecutive committeemen at large.

Among the speakers in the movement to organize were
Milton Herman, 1906, who held seniority from the stand-
point of graduating year, Senator Tuck, Paul Sanford,
1921, Danville attorney, Lea Booth, 1940, student, and
Jim Lindsey, 1939, student. Jim spoke briefly in the ab-
sence of Lindsey Moore, 1922, who, as a tackle, was one
of the Generals’ greatest football players of all time. Jim,
a cousin, is an incumbent among the candidates for Tex
Tilson’s 1938 line.

Among the guests at the dinner were Charlie Wilson,
who presided, Senator Bill Tuck, Billy Taylor, Jimmy
Watson, 1929, Z. V. Johnson, 1932, Leroy Hodges, Jr.,
1934, Marvin Walton, 1925, Preston Harper, 1925,
Jimmy Perkinson, 1939, Jim Lindsey, 1939, Jitt Frank-
lin, 1937, Ballou Bagby, 1929, Paul Sanford, 1921, Joe
Friedman, 1934, Buddy Rippe, 1939, Lea Booth, 1940,
R. C, Overbey, 1911, Cy Young, 1917, Hampton Benton,
1923, Charlie Wood, 1927, P. K. Miles, 1917, Charlie
Williamson, 1918, Will Pierce, 1926, “Brother” Penn,
1926, Dick Penn, 1924, Dave Ragland, 1925, and Milton
Herman, 1906. In addition to these, several young men
who have enrolled as freshmen for the coming school
session were among the invited guests.

Inclement weather gave the association a tough break
at the outset and prevented many of those who had ac-
cepted the dinner engagement from attending. In full
swing, the newly-formed organization should contain
some sixty-odd names on its roll including alumni of
Danville and many surrounding cities of Virginia and
North Carolina.

[26]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1869

The earliest class represented in letters received from
Class Agents in this year’s “round of letters” comes from
Tuomas H. WaALLAcE of Clarksville, Tennessee. Mr.
Wallace attended Washington College from 1865 to 1869.
He says that although he is in his ninety-first year he
drives to his farm each day and directs the work there.
His thoughts of the years spent at Washington and Lee
and the intimate association with General Lee are among
his most cherished memories. “May the boys of Washing-
ton and Lee never lower the standard of our college as
they carry on through the years to come.”

Another representative of this class, who wrote a nice
letter, is Ep>mMUND WILKINS WILLIAMS of 1319 West
Sixth Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Mr. Williams was a
student 1868-1869. He was eighty-nine years old on
May 20 last. He says, “I am proud to have been with
General Lee.”

1870

JoHN F. Ponver of 270 South Alexandria, Los An-
geles, California, is a member of a later class at Wash-
ington and Lee as he was here 1866-1867, but he was born
the same year as Mr. Thomas H. Wallace, and was ninety-
one years old at the time he last wrote us.

1874

Jupce Wo. H. Tay or of Uniontown, Alabama, will
celebrate his eighty-sixth birthday on August 26. Our
most affectionate greetings and congratulations.

THE RicHtT REVEREND JAMES R. WIN-
CHESTER, 1538 Estes Avenue, Rogers Park,
Chicago, Illinois, writes a delightful letter
full of reminiscences of his college life
which we would like to print in full if space
were available. He says in part: “I cannot
imagine any college with a finer set of stu-
dents than that enrolled at Washington Col-
lege in those days. ‘Honor’ was the watch-
word, which has continued down to the
present.” Among Bishop Winchester’s
treasured possessions is a letter written by
General Lee to his mother approving of his
faithfulness to duty. The Rev. Dr. Samuel
H. Chester and Bishop Winchester are the

 

two surviving members of the body guard appointed by
the faculty to watch over the casket of General Lee as it
lay in the Chapel.

1876

Dr. Witt1aAm E. Do xp, now retired and living in
Charlottesville, Virginia, writes of very pleasant visits
with his friend Dr. James H. Dillard, a classmate of 1876,
who is living in Charlottesville, ““whose infinite variety
and charm has not been diminished by the lapse of years.”’

F. F. Downs is living in his native town of Temple,
Texas. He was eighty-two years old on April 17, 1938. He
has seven children, eleven grandchildren and two great-
grandchildren.

1879

Dr. EpwArD RANDALL is the physician for the Amer-
can National Insurance Company, of Galveston, Texas.

1884

Harrison B. SmituH of the law firm of Price, Smith
and Spilman, Charleston, West Virginia, has a strong
family connection with Washington and Lee. His father
was graduated in the class of 1851, and Mr. Smith and
four of his brothers were students here.

1886

Rospert LEE HuNTER writes from St. Louis, Mis-
souri. His youngest son, Joseph Hunter IV, was a sopho-
more in the University last year. He has the
honor of being the oldest member of the St.
Louis Alumni Association of about sixty-
five members. He says :“‘ Our men here rank
among the highest standing individuals in
this territory and I am proud of every one
of them.”

1888

GREENLEE D. LETCHER is an attorney-
at-law in Lexington, Virginia. Mr. Letcher
is a graduate of the Virginia Military In-
stitute as well as an LL.B. of Washington
wifi? and Lee University, and is equally inter-
ested and enthusiastic in his allegiance to
the two institutions.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

JupceE Henry W. Ho rr is Judge of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia. His home is in Staunton,
Virginia.

1889

J. T. Drake is a lawyer of Port Gibson, Mississippi.
His son, J. T. Drake, Jr., was graduated this year as an
LL.B. of Washington and Lee.

1890

F. M. Hupson says if we had asked him to write about
his five grandchildren it could have been easily done, he
would have turned the matter over to his wife who would
have made a thorough job of it. He says his biggest suc-
cess in life has been in catching a wife and helping her to
bring up their two daughters and a son, who, including
the in-laws, he is ready to back against the field. Mr. Hud-
son is a member of the law firm of Hudson & Cason of
Miami, Florida.

Douctas S. ANDERSON writes: “Approaching the half
century mark since my graduation from Washington and
Lee, I fiind one of my most pleasant experiences in life
is keeping in touch with Alma Mater. When I graduated
in 1890 I came immediately to New Orleans to take grad-
uate work at Tulane University. Almost one of the first
social functions I attended there was a reunion and an-
nual dinner of the Washington and Lee Alumni; that
function stands out as one of the red letter days of my life.
With such men as the elder Wisdoms, William Prickhard,
the Bartlettes, James H. Dillard, Walter Hoffman, Brown
Ayars and many other present, I caught there, I think,
something of the inspiration that goes into the make-up
of the spirit of Washington and Lee alumni. And so I
have always tried to do my part.’’ Mr. Anderson has re-
cently retired as Dean and Acting President of Tulane
and is living at Mandeville, Louisiana.

GrorcE W. Sr. Crair, honored Rector of the Board
of Trustees of Washington and Lee, is president of the
Jewell Ridge Coal Company, Tazewell, Virginia.

A. K. Bow Es is General Auditor of the Consolidated
Coal Company, Inc., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York.
His residence is at 373 William Street, East Orange, New
Jersey.

1893

B. A. Jupp is practicing law at 25 Broad Street, New
York City.

Harry Pratt is teaching in the Columbia Bible Col-
lege, Columbia, S. C.

A. K. BowLEs is with the Consolidated Coal Com-
pany, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York.

H. A. ALBRIGHT is secretary-treasurer of Robertson
& Company, Inc., wholesale grocers, of Columbus, Miss.
He is enthusiastic and cooperative about everything per-
taining to Washington and Lee.

1894

Jim BULL LITT is professor of pathology at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina. He has a son and daughter, both
married, the son living in Philadelphia and the daughter
in Wake Forest, N. C.

1896

STEVE TIMBERLAKE is a member of the firm of Tim-
berlake & Nelson. His partner is R. EK. R. Nelson, 1888.

Dr. Paut $. MERTINS its in partnership with his son,
Paul S. Mertins, Jr., B. A., 1929, in the practice of medi-
cine, Montgomery, Ala.

1897

Epwarp §. ZoLLMAN has lived in Tacoma, Wash.,
for thirty-two years. He has a family of four boys and
one girl, sixteen years old. Mr. Zollman has followed mu-
sic since his college days, teaching organ and piano; also
church organist.

1898

J. SAM SLICER is in business in Atlanta, Georgia. His
address is 342 West Peachtree Street, N. W.

ALBAN G. SNYDER is in the government service in
Washington, D. C. His address is 42 Taylor Street, Chevy
Chase, Maryland.

C. W. F. SpENcER is practicing law is Rock Hill,
South Carolina. His firm is Spencer and Spencer, with
offices at 314-17 Peoples National Bank Building.

Rosert H. TurNER is assistant pardon attorney for
the Department of Justice in Washington. His address is
3372 Stuyvesant Place.

Cot. WARREN W. WuirsipE, U. S. A., has charge of
the Army Remount Station at Front Royal, Virginia. Last
year Col. Whitside was awarded the degree at Washing- °
ton and Lee which he would have had in 1898 if he hadn't
joined the army for active service two months before he
was due to graduate.

NorMAN S. FitzHucu is a Certified Public Account-
ant, practicing in Charleston, West Virginia. His address
is 508 Kanawha Bank and Trust Building.

Oscar HurrMan, recently elected member of the
Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee, is president
of the Continental Can Company, with offices in New
York City.

[28]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

E. Warinc WILson is a well known attorney in Phila-
delphia, and is active in the Philadelphia Alumni Chap-
ter. His address is 1419 Land Title Building, Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania.

1899

JoHN RANpoLPH Tucker, A. B., 1900, LL. B., 1902,
has been appointed General Counsel of the Virginia Trust
Company, Richmond, Virginia.

James L. Morrison lives in Hazard, Kentucky.

Ezra F. Rrpy lives in Lawrence-
burg, Kentucky.

Epwin D. SLoAN has been chief
engineer of PWA in Mississippi. He
lives in Jackson, Mississippi.

1902

JoHN PowELv RoyaAt is practicing
law in Tazewell, Virginia. He has a
wife and nine children, five boys and
four girls. He went to the lower house
of the legislature in 1904 and 1906, and
to the senate for two terms, 1912 to
1920, then he was elected common-
wealth’s attorney of Tazewell County.

VoLNEY M. Brown is a member of the law firm of
Brown & Brooke, El Paso National Bank Building, El
Paso, Texas.

1904

Wicsur E. McCcenny holds a responsible position
with West & Withers, insurance firm. He is a member of
the Virginia Historical Society, and associate member of
the American Historical Society.

R. A. LApPSLEy, JR., is pastor of the First Presbyte-
rian Church, Roanoke, Va., which position he has held
for the past six years.

H. B. Conner lives at 3648 North Boulevard, Baton
Rouge, La. He tells an interesting story of the way he
lived while a student at Washington and Lee, as compared
with the luxury of student life today—At his first board-
ing house he and his roommate slept together on a shuck
mattress resting on wooden slats; there were no springs
of any kind. Later he moved to a home four miles out of
town where he was furnished with room and board at $8
a month. His laundry bill was 50c a month. In winter the
leaks from the mill race formed icicles larger than a man’s
body—*But Oh, Boy! that bountiful supply of rich milk,
those delicious pies, jellies, fruits, and salt-rising bread
were worth walking four miles twice a day through mud
ankle deep...”

 

 

1906

GEORGE (RED) CAPERTON, representative of the New
River Coal Company, is making his headquarters in Lex-
ington.

Mitton HERMAN lives at Forrest Hills, Danville, Va.

A. W. RutTAn is an attorney with Rutan, Mize &
Kroese, First National Bank Building, Santa Ana, Calif.

Ep L&a Davis is a member of the Rose-Davis Realty
Company, 707 George Avenue, Chattanooga, Tenn.

R. B. SPINDLE is judge of the Cor-
poration Court, Norfolk, Virginia.

1907

Vint MILEs is a member of the
Social Security Board, Washington,
D. C. He was the guest speaker at a
University assembly early in the spring.

PowELL GLAss is still connected
with the Lynchburg News and Daily
Advance. His son graduated from the
University this year.

1908

W. H. JAcKson is a member of the
firm of McKay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ramsey, Citrus
Exchange Building, Tampa, Florida.

GrorGE Cary is a lawyer in Gloucester, Va.

ALONzO McMULLEN is a member of the law firm of
McMullen & Draper, with offices in the First National
Bank Building, Tampa, Fla.

1909

J. Preston IRwIn has been with Arthur G. McKee &
Company, engineers and contractors, Cleveland, Ohio,
for the past twenty years, and reports they are busier than
they have ever been. They are building two of the largest
new blast furnaces in this country and have a contract for
two in England.

1910

GEORGE W. ALLison, 689 Clove Road, Staten Island,
New York, is now Commissioner of Public Works for
the Borough of Richmond of the City of New York.

Hucu HAwruorng has his offices at No. One Broad-
way, New York. He is general secretary and counsel for
the Pocahontas Fuel Company, Inc.

ORANGE RICHARDSON is vice-president of the Du-
quesne Lumber Company, Columbia Building, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

[29]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Joun H. Tucker, JR., is a member of the law firm of
Tucker & Mason, with offices in the Commercial National
Bank Building, Shreveport, La. He is one of our most in-
terested and cooperative alumni.

JaMEs N. Carson is practicing law in Miami, Fla. His
offices are in the Congress Building.

1912

Bos Dow is located in Amarillo, Texas, serving as
regional attorney for the Resettlement Administration of
the Department of Agriculture. He has held many im-
portant positions; 1915-1917, member of New Mexico
State Legislature ; 1917-1921, prosecuting attorney, Fifth
Judicial District (six months), State of New Mexico;
1926, Assistant Attorney General of New Mexico; 1927-
1928, Attorney General of New Mexico. The Democratic
State Convention for the year 1928 gave him the nomina-
tion of Democratic nominee for governor, but in the year
of the Hoover landslide, all Democrats in office were de-
feated. During a portion of 1935-1936 he served as chair-
man of the Regional Compliance Counsel for the National
Recovery Administration of Washington, D. C.

LAWRENCE CROWGEY is principal of the Pocahontas
High School, Pocahontas, Va.

1913

Henry B. Goop.oe is practicing law in Crozet, Va.
He retained his commission in the Reserve Corps and is
now a Lieutenant-Colonel of infantry and vice-president
of the Third Corps Area Reserve Officers Association
and past president of the Department of Virginia Re-
serve Officers Association. He married Mary Elizabeth
Carter of Columbus, Ohio, and they have a daughter who
was thirteen years old last August. He says he is a Repub-
lican in a Democratic community ; is chairman of the Re-
publican County Committee, and his office associate, Ray-
mond L,. Jackson, is chairman of the Democratic County
Committee.

With the approval of PrEsIDENT CARTER GLASS, JR.,
1913, of the American Philatelic Society, and under the
direction of the Arrangements Committee at New Orleans
for the 53rd annual convention of the A. P. S., which
met in that city October 10-14 last year, a poster stamp
giving publicity to the philatelic event in “The Deep
South,” was issued. The stamp was designed by John D.
Stanard, also an alumnus of Washington and Lee of the
class of 1929.

1914

BEN D. Sm1rH is a member of the law firm of Ben V.
Smith & Son, First National Bank Building, Somerset,

Ky. Most of his practice is in civil cases. He expects to
send his daughter to a Virginia school this fall.

WILLIAM H. NEBLETT is a member of the law firm of
McAdoo, Neblett and Warner, Bank of Italy Building,
Los Angeles, Calif.

1915

Maptson P. Cor lives at 1735 New Hampshire Ave-
nue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

James E. Bear is head of the department of New
Testament, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

C. W. Switzer lives at 223 Ridge Road, Douglaston,
Long Island, New York.

Rogert P. ADAMS is a member of the law firm of Tay-
lor, Adams and Freeman, Trenton, Tennessee.

CHARLIE LILE lives at 1210 S. Negley Avenue, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania.

WILL H. Smiru lives in Ardmore, Oklahoma.

1916

EpmMuNp Macers is senior examiner in the depart-
ment of audits, Atlanta, Ga.

Rosert A. WELLONs is an attorney-at-law, 807-809
Law Building, Charlotte, N. C.

Byrum P. Goan is practicing law in Hillsville, Va.

Bos Curtis is treasurer of the Times-World Corpora-
tion, publishers of the Roanoke Times and The Roanoke
W orld-News, Roanoke, Virginia.

1917

M. D. WILLIAMSON buys and sells foreign and domes-
tic veneers. His home address is 4510 Roland Avenue,
Baltimore, Md.

Emory P. Barrow is practicing law in Lawrenceville,
Va. He has served for the past two years in the lower
house of the general assembly of Virginia, and has en-
joyed very much his association with men from all sec-
tions of the state, many of whom are Washington and Lee
alumni.

1918

Joun McCuorp is a member of the law firm of Calfee
and Fogg, with offices in the Euclid Building, Cleveland,
Ohio. |

Futon Hocs is a member of the firm of Williamson,
Hoge and Sargent, attorneys at law, Title Insurance Build-
ing, Los Angeles, Calif. He was married recently.

[30]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1919

Dr. RE WHITE, JR., is a busy and successful physi-
cian in Lexington, Va. He is married and has a small son
and daughter.

1920

Joun M. Hart is with the Lawyers Co-Operative
Publishing Company of Rochester, N. Y. After leaving
Washington and Lee as a graduate lawyer, he taught
chemistry at Rugby Academy in New Orleans, and math
and chemistry in Virginia high schools for six years. He
became a law writer and for almost eleven years has writ-
ten annotations of American Law Re-
ports, most of the criminal law titles for
Ohio Jurisprudence, and is at present
engaged in writing the criminal law titles
for American Jurisprudence. Has also
worked on some special publications such
as the eleventh edition of. Wharton's
Criminal Evidence. He married the girl
at Spottswood, Virginia, and they have
two children, a girl twelve and a boy
eight.

Jor T. ENGLEBY, Jr., is still pursu-
ing that “most elusive legal profession,”
His offices are in the Shenandoah Life
Building, Roanoke, Virginia, where he is surrounded by
Washington and Lee men, but none of them “fortunate
enough” to belong to the class of 1920. He is married and
has two boys, six and eight, respectively.

B. A. Davis, ]R., is a member of the law firm of Davis,
Davis & Davis, Rocky Mount, Va.

1921

Howarb GIBBONS is business manager of the State
Teachers College, Harrisonburg, Va. He is married; has
three bovs and a baby girl.

J. L. SHAVER is practicing law in Wynne, Ark. He is
married and has two children. Has been state senator for
the past eight years.

1923

J. G. RaGspALE is judge of the Municipal Court, El
Dorado, Ark. He married Miss Dimple Hill of Lexington
and they have two sons, one nine and one twelve. He
served as city attorney and probate judge of Union-County
for four years; city attorney for the city of El Dorado
four years.

1924

M. P. MATHENEY is practicing law in El Dorado,
Ark. He is married and has two sons, Jimmy, 10, and
Pierce, Jr., 6.. Has just moved into his new home at 700
North Madison Street.

 

CHARLIE COHEN is practicing law at 270 Broadway,
New York.

1926

James N. WILLIAMS is with the Bureau of Mental
Hygiene, Department of Public Welfare, Richmond, Va.

Paut M. ScHucHART is working with the Pennsyl-
vania Society for Crippled Children, in Harrisburg, Pa.

1927

BuRKE WILLIAMSON graduated from Northwestern
University Law School in 1930 and since that time has
been practicing law in Chicago. For the
past three years he has been a member
of the firm of Adams, Nelson and Wil-
liamson. His brother, Jack A. William-
son, Washingtdn and Lee, 1930, after a
term in the Louisiana State Legislature,
is now associated with the same firm.

EARLE L. VALENTINE is president of
the Lexington, Virginia, Rotary Club.
During the past few months he has been
busy re-organizing the Lexington-Rock-
bridge Chamber of Commerce, of which
he was elected president last April. He
is practicing law in Lexington, Virginia.

1928

Joe CLOWER is minister of the First Presbyterian
Church, Virginia Beach, Va. He has a son, Joseph B.
Clower, III, born June 20, 1937.

J. Lovejoy ComEGys is in the insurance and automo-
bile loan business in McKinney, Texas.

1929

IRwin T. SANDERS returned to Bulgaria in Septem-
ber, 1934, to act as dean of boys in the American College
of Sofia. In May he was planning to return to the United
States with his wife to enter Cornell University, working
toward a doctorate in rural sociology. Since there were
few in Bulgaria who had any training in rural sociology,
he has made some contributions along this line, including
magazine articles.

PauL MErTINS, Jr., has finished his internship in the
Massachusetts Eye and Ear Hospital, Boston, and has re-
turned to his home town, Montgomery, Ala., to practice.

AsA JANNEY is living in Lincoln, Va., which he desig-
nate as ‘‘the garden spot of the world.”

PEYTON Busn is in the bond department of the First
National Bank, Mobile, Ala. Not married.

[31]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

RicHArD P. Carrer, after a year and a half with the
Associated Press in New York, returned to Washington
and Lee last September as director of publicity and mem-
ber of the journalism faculty of the University.

1930

Jor Broanus is working for the Chase National Bank,
18 Pine Street, New York.

WALTER PRESTON BATTLE, JR., is assistant district at-
torney general, Memphis, Tenn.

FRANK SHIPMAN is a member of the law firm of
Shipman and Shipman, Peoples Building and Savings
‘Building, Troy, Ohio. He is married and has two chil-
dren, a boy and a girl.

BEN RAWLINGs is practicing law in Chicago with the
firm of Knapp, Beye, Allen & Cushing, 208 South La-
Salle Street. Has been going to school again for a course
of lectures on labor law.

Britt Warp is a member of the law firm of Woodruff
& Ward, Healey Building, Atlanta, Ga.

LEONARD Davis is a member of the law firm of White,
Guy & Davis, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk, Va.

1931

Jack Myrose is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church at Dalhart, Texas.

Epcar M. Cuurcu is at 1206 Commerce Title Build-
ing, Memphis, Tenn.

AppDISON WuHi?rTT is in the insurance business in Win-
chester, Ky.

1932

Joun Hitt Morean, an honorary member of the Law
Class of 1932, having been awarded a degree in that year,
has given up the active practice of law in New York. He
retired from his firm and became its counsel. He says: “I
haven’t any word to pass on to my classmates, except as
each one comes to the time when some happening will re-
quire leaving his busy life and take up life in some other
form, that the cultivation of some hobby will make this
change happy. It does not make much difference what the
hobby is—fishing, golfing, the collection of rare books, but
cultivate some activity outside of a profession or business.
I fish, play bridge .. . read and write books which few peo-
ple read, but it is the interest that I have in the art of the
American colonies which now gives me something which
will keep me busy, and therefore, happy. Good Luck!”
His new address is Mill Streams, Farmington, Conn.

1936

H. O. DANIELSON is with the Blake & Johnson Com-
pany of Waterville, Conn., manufacturers of machine
screws, nuts, bolts and special articles fabricated from
wire.

GrorcE W. Harrison is employed by the A. T.
Barnes Funeral Home, Inc. He says it sounds like a dead
business but is not as bad as one would think.

 

In Memoriam

Dr. Epcar F. SHANNON, 63, head of the Washington
and Lee English department since 1914 and a nationally
known authority on Chaucer, died suddenly May 2 of a
heart attack at his home on the campus.

Dr. Shannon before coming to Washington and Lee
was professor of Ancient Languages and English and
dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the
University of Arkansas. He was a native of Bourbon
County, Kentucky. Funeral services were held from the
home on May 3 and interment was in the Lexington ceme-
tery.

Dr. ArtHur H. THrocxmorton, LL. B. 1900, died
May 21 in Cleveland. He was the author of a number of
texts on law and of encyclopedia and periodical articles.
He taught at Central University (now Centre College),
Indiana University, and Western Reserve University at
Cleveland.

Word has just been received at the Alumni Office of
the death of WiLtLt1AM G. Ropertson, A.B. 1931, at
Warren, Pennsylvania, on December 27, 1937.

J. Ropp Morrerr, B.S. 1929, was killed in an air-
plane crash near Cleveland, May 24. He was Far Eastern
representative of Armstrong Cork Company for some
time.

THOMAS JEFFERSON PARKER, class of 1884, died
April 5 in Lake Wales, Florida.

Harry N. Huss, A. B. 1903, well known member of
the freight traffic department of the Norfolk and Western
Railway, died November 28 of last year, the Alumni Of-
fice has just been informed.

GrorcrE F. Atrwoop, class agent for the class of 1928,
was killed June 23 when his automobile left the road and
plunged down an embankment as he was returning from
an alumni meeting at the Bogey Golf Club, St. Louis. At-
wood was head of the loans and discounts department of
the Mutual Bank and Trust Company.

[$2]

 

 

 

: McCRUM’S

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BOLEy

was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee

$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

=

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

=

Whitman’s

and Martha Washington Candies

=

Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

a

Your Mail Order Will

Receive Our Best Attention

 

 

Professional Directory

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
w

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

James R. Caskie
1909
Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Ruff & Ready

Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921

Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building
East Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ve
si 2

%

4 i
*
,
s
-

a
“

cake
Sat

»

22Y
8

*
74

=
4x

a w?

<2
wt Me

Sree

er tile

wep

' 4 = + s* ;
A Bed ye Se -—: <7 :
‘me i 5 Fp

 

