8 APRS heel Li me ea Te

A Friend of Yours
~ Wants to Hear From You

Vol. IX No. 4
tice Moke $2.50 a year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

Vj
x
or
R

~~

/

7
,
.
> % _—
in

Pe

he
\
\
—
ay

- RES OAY ;
Ze SSS , wy
ores
eee

-

A
ae - uM \ :

yj- ANS RN pte
ye LA Pe a

 

 

 

This Drawing of Washington College
was used for the decoration of
the outside of a folder to be mailed
to every alumnus by his class-agent.
The title of the folder is
“A Friend of Yours
Wants to Hear From You.”
It goes to nearly 9000 Washington and
Lee men. In June we will know
how many men answered it.

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
: Barker, Jr., Security Invest-
ment Company, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Bldg.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank
Building.

Charleston, West Virginia
C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton
Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building,
Hagerstown, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building.

Tri-State Association
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia

Jacksonville, Florida
R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank
Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
Arthur Tabb, 2411 Randall Avenue

Memphis, Tennessee
Maynard W. Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank
Building.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title
Building.

Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Roanoke, Virginia
Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City
Bank Building

Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life
Building.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and
Door Company.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Bldg.

Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern
Suilding.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni,, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Vol. IX MARCH 1934 No. 4

 

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President................ Water A. McDonarp, 1910
Vice-President....JoHN RANDOLPH TucCKER, 1902
Secretary............ Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
TI 5-30: «< Slaps ciesdse ee Stuart Moore, 1915

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Dozier A. DEVANE, 1908
Epwarp W. L&E, 1913
Dr. Joun WILtiIAmM CLAupy, 1909
HERBERT GRANT JAHNCKE, 1930

 

 

 

Contents for March 1934

ie PresiQiGgme ces iasssenah-c+05.<c-<0a cols ysostopanees Aaa...

Bae Settle gf MRM 65. 6f1bscsucees.cpcns.-nccuacoupbartumabingspedte naka:
A Lattle Wits eee in tie Bilis’ .......s.scausseells ceeds... 6

A Cynic Looks at Washington and Lee ................0.

Pamiey Drege 60a. i0 {ies veers. Goicass. ngage .
ememebevacies | Su Sh RG, | aA, 0 6 4

PE Rese GENIE SODOLIS 2200.05 cccksoccc.c. astra nnn eoteat bes nis.

maviraieile, (8, crsucessthascaduouncudl

Peete to MINOT, «osc cons cncaddavdecdsnescctustsavess Sh a

Liocal ‘Alumni Association NOtes.............cccccsccccs..ccsvecaseecseveee.

me. Nokes See oes... ke ccthsaaladk sulle ctspeea dese en anen

ose eiGQUne Ts. cuties pbuenteete’ Re ore ae

[1]

PAGE

. .7 - - o Z . 7 ‘ i) 7 . ~ a 7 7 oe
. ae Py b oa ar aS a i
an a a rr NY aa F ®) ‘ ’

; c= ae 5 - Dave ae. | XS a es 1» — “—

ey \ - - a til

1%
-

i ey i
oe : te
7 = rr : » ¥
<a) ae - 4g . ¥
i nas - — ars ee oe re 3
, “ ys i‘ /
a J

eS
a
se

-

Pm e 0) a eee
. wan ) - KA : i A y ¢ F M rf , ™
~a ; a , a <a \ a Aah ee a 42 .
: — ) f : , 4 ——

, ia

 

ae | ae We IN

a EMOTION that stirs men into active support

¥e Alma Mater is one of the noblest attributes of
It arises in circumstances of deep senti-
ment; it crystallizes the most honorable sentiment ; and
it becomes the vehicle for the holiest purpose.

our souls.

Most institutions of great age and long tradition
carry somewhere in the vaults of precious recollection
the roster of those spirits who have manifested sacri-
ficial devotion. Washington and Lee, without any
single patron of large munificence, is rich in such
chronicles.

Nothing is more interesting to us who study affec-
tionately these records than the variety of occasions that
may prompt such expressions or the diversity of ends
to which they may be turned.

x *

Within the range of my own acquaintances are
many inspiring cases. A mother, living in the deep
South, greeted her son after his graduation here only
to see him accidentally killed a few days after he
reached home. In his memory she established a set of
scholarship aids for other boys to fulfill their ambitions.

Far to the North, a father who lost his son just
before his graduation here, set up a loan fund primarily
for young men who are about as far along their course
as was his own fine boy.

Almost within our own community, a lady whose
husband died after a life of great usefulness gave a
scholarship here as the best memorial, the most fitting
perpetuation of his spirit.

et ee

But not all of these annals are concerned with
the feelings that proceed from life’s supreme emotional
crisis.

On my desk is a letter from one of America’s
foremost historians, an alumnus. In the preface to
one of his works, he indicated that this volume was
offered as a humble monument to the tradition and ser-
vice of Washington and Lee.

In the business world, one of our alumni has
come to distinction. He paid his college fees, but dis-
covered some years later that earlier benfactors had by
their generosity made it possible for that education to
come to him at about half of its actual cost. He resolved
to put back, for the benefit of other boys, every penny

[3]

I

Se, A Sa

The President's Page

that he received;
and he has done it,
many times over.
In a great city,
one of the most ac-
tive and successful
lawyers is never too
busy to lay down his
duties and take any
degree of trouble in
helping to discover
or to appraise pros-
pective students.

All of this com-
ment must not for a
moment forget the
dominant generosi-
ties—a Washington
who chose this insti-
tution as medium for his
who remembered here the

 

aspirations, a McCormick
section of his boyhood, a
Peabody who was sustaining the desolated education of
another section, a Doremus who elected this institution
as his eternal investment in youth, a Lee who brought us
his life, and all the great, shining host of our immortals.

x * Xx

The present alumni movement is an invitation to
every son of Washington and Lee to become a partner
of all these liberal souls, to share in their faith and their
love, upon terms and in such a measure as he may deem
possible.

Already the story of this movement is beautiful
with many individual histories of unselfishness. Here’s
a father who sends a class contribution for a dead boy ;
here’s a son—himself not an alumnus—who makes a
gift in the name of a dead father; here are numbers
of cases of men who have offered their own unheralded
but greatly heroic aid.

Such a partnership can bring no regret. Such
an expression of noble emotion can only bless him who
gives as well as him who receives.

Pee re ae

E ‘a2 aan

pana

THE
Left to right—Top row: A. \\.

Gaines,
Second row: F.
Catcher; J. F.

kins, L. Field.

M. McElwee, Bullitt,

I

 

C. Fi

Davidson, Ist base:
Right

_ ee ee ee, eam’ “ie Sa

1877 BASEBALL CLUB

eld; G. A. Sykes, Pitcher; W. S. Hop-
kd Randall, 2nd base; William
Field. Third row: W. B. McCluer,

Short Stop: A. M. Robinson, 3rd_ base.
Washington and Lee 12-—University of Virginia 0
May 20, 1878, at Charlottesville
Of these nine men,-Mr. Sykes, Mr. Randal!, Mr. McCluer, Mr. McElwee are living.

To Settle a Controversy

EORGE A. SyKEs, who threw the first college

curve ball, has recalled for history’s sake the

occasion and the event, with the picturesque set-
ting of the spring of 1877. His letter was written to
a class-mate and fellow member of the baseball team
of 1877, Mr. Will McElwee, president of the Peoples
National Bank of Lexington.

Marietta, Ga., January 3, 1934

Dear Will:

As there seems to be some controversy about that
first “college curve ball’, this may settle the matter.

As Godwin Figgatts says, I had a slow ball varied
by a moderately swift ball and absolute control. Rob-
inson had a very swift ball but no control whatever.
He was just as likely to hit the batter or to put it be-
hind him as to get it over the plate.

One day I was pitching to Jack Hamilton, ‘77,

[|

s*

about half way along the fence of “Old Johnnie's
residence. The bell rang for eleven o'clock, and Jack
had to go to class, but before he went I threw the
final ball and I took a different hold on the ball and
delivered it with a snap. I asked Jack if he saw that
ball curve, and he said he did. I did not go to class
but got somebody else to catch and in fifteen minutes
I could put that curve ball anywhere I wanted to.

This was during either the last week in April,
1877, or the first week in May.

When the Nine was organized that spring, Rob-
inson put me in as right fielder and relief pitcher. I
was always afflicted with the idea that I was a better
pitcher than Robinson and playing right fielder did
not suit me at all. About the second or third time I
played in that position I became disgusted and made
up my mind to resign from the W. & L. B. B. C.
After the practice was over I went to the room which

 

ba

i aes

Sans ue

 

H 2 A ee 2

T

——————

[ was occupying with Josh Bullitt. You remember that
Bullitt had been the catcher on the White Stockings,
of which Nine I was. pitcher. I told Josh that I was
going to resign from the club as I did not like right
field. He at once suggested that we organize another
Nine and beat the University Club. This we did, call-
ing ourselves the Moguls.

Bullitt was elected captain and challenged the Un-
iversity Club. Scratch Barclay, with whom I had been
practicing was the catcher. The University accepted our

I

challenge and for the next few days every member of .

the Moguls was subjected to twitting and ridicule on
the part not only of the University Club but the main
body of the students. The day for the game came
around and the game resulted in a top heavy score in
favor of the Moguls.

The University boys vowed that it was just an
accident and that in the next game they would show
us something. That next game was constantly post-
poned. One day I asked Robinson when they were go-
ing to or were they afraid to. He replied that the game
with the University of Virginia was due in a short
time and if the University Club played us again and
were beaten, the University of Virginia would claim
that we were the University Club and refuse to play
the old University Club.

A day or two before the Virginia boys were due
Robinson and two or three others of the University
Club came around and asked if I would go in as relief
if anything happened so that Robinson could not fin-
ish the game. I, of course, agreed, but told Robinson
that Randall could not catch for me as he was not
used to catching curve balls. Robinson then put in
Scratch Barclay as right fielder and I was in reserve,
among the spectators. Figgatt has written about that
game. This was in the spring of the year 1877.

As the other writers on the game have covered
practically all the points, I will mention only two con-
cerning the game of ’78. When we got to the depot at
Charlottesville, we all piled out of the train and into
the waiting room at the depot. Fawcett, the captain of
the Virginia Nine, introduced himself to Josh Bullitt,
our captain, and told him whom he would room with
during our stay at Charlottesville. Bullitt and his new
friend left at once. Fawcett followed the same pro-
cedure until all the Washington and Lee men had been
billetted except myself. As the room was crowded and |
was the smallest man there (I only weighed 115), I had
retreated behind the end of the counter in the waiting
room in order to get out of the crush. Fawcett and
another Virginia man were left in the room and they
looked at me and apparently concluded that I was a
school boy, so they departed for their rooms without
Saying anything to me.

[5]

wm A G&G A. 2 et mF

After they had gone I asked the agent if I could
get a cab and what was the best hotel. He suggested
that I hurry out before the last cab got away. I found
that last cab and the driver came back to the waiting
room with me to get my satchell. We were just start-
ing for the door when Fawcett and I think, Mr. Du-
laney, rushed in and asked me if my name was Sykes.
Of course it was, so he introduced me to the gentle-
man with him and told me that I was to room with
Fawcett himself.

Monday morning opened up cloudy, but along
about 10 or 11 o'clock it cleared up. The Washington
and Lee Club went over to the grounds to look them
over and get a little practice. There was an old worm
fence around most of the grounds and we soon dis-
covered that there were a dozen or more Virginia men
to get pointers on the game. When I first began to
pitch we had to use the old fair pitch and not an over-
hand throw, so for the benefit of the Virginia men I
used only the fair pitch in the practice. They went back
and told the Virginia students that I did not have any
curve but just a slow fair pitch delivery and they would
beat us badly.

When we went out to play the match game I did
not warm up as I did not have to warm up, never hav-
ing had a sore arm in my life. The Virginia students
seated themselves back of McElwee and on both sides,
leaving him only a narrow lane about five or six feet
wide and perhaps ten feet long. The players seated
themselves at other places. While our Nine was prac-
ticing I stood by watching them but made no effort to
warm up. A Virginia student came up to me and re-
marked that Mr. Jeffries, their first baseman had made
a home run the first time he came to the bat in every
game the Virginia Nine had played and that he would
like to bet me $5.00 that he would do the same in the
present game. I told him that I never bet on a game in
which I was playing but that I thought I would have
no trouble finding someone to take his bet. I introduced
him to O. W. Thomas, our scorer, and told him what
the Virginia man had said to me. ‘*Perg” hauled out a
roll of bills and said, “Mr. Man, I will take that bet
just as often as you want to make it.” But the Virginia
man replied that he only wanted to bet $5.00 in order
to make the game interesting.

You got the error you were charged with because
of the narrow lane referred to above. You had to throw
around a Virginia man standing between you and first
and your throw, because of this, went a little wide.
Davidson stopped it but could not hold it and the man
got to first. The next batter up knocked an easy ground-
er to Robinson, who let it get away from him and both
runners were safe. The next batter batted another easy
ball to Robinson, who again missed it, but ‘Pansy’

Som’ 2S ae ie ae ee

McCluer was back-up and got the man running down
to second. Of course, the man on second made third,
he being the only Virginia man to reach third during
the game.

“If the letter be not already too long, I will add
one more little incident which may have been mentioned
previously by some other writer. While at Charlottes-
ville, I was told that in one of his classes on the Sat-
urday preceding the game, some of the students told
Professor Venable that it was said that I could pitch
a curve ball and they asked if that was so. The pro-
fessor demonstrated mathematically that such a thing
could not be done. Mathematics sometimes leads to

G. A. SYKES

Sapa

Mr. McElwee has framed at his house in Lex-
ington a copy of the Southern Collegian of June 1,
1878, a small newspaper, stained, darkened, fading.
This is Vol. X, Number 17, bearing a record of the
long life of this historic collegiate publication.

The first page is devoted to a description of the
fifth annual match in baseball between Washington and
Lee and the University of Virginia, and describes the
game that ended in a score of 12-0.

“On Saturday, May 18th, the Washington and
Lee University Nine, accompanied by a number of
their fellow-students, left for Charlottesville for the
purpose of contesting with the University of Virginia
the championship in the National Sport. While we were
confident that our Nine would do credit to themselves,
and not allow this opportunity of winning back the
laurels to escape them, yet owing to the uncertain re-
ports concerning the character of the University of
Virginia Nine, and having in our mind our defeat of
last spring, even the most sanguine were apprehensive
as to the probable result of the game.

“The gloomy weather and fatiguing stage ride,
(which need only be mentioned to be appreciated),
were not in any great degree conducive to our pleasure
or the elevation of our spirits. However, the trip across
the mountains was at last accomplished, and when once
descended from the coaches, we took the large and
Biblical celebrity by storm (Goshen), to the complete
astonishment of the natives. For the amusement of the
audience, several selections from the choicest operas
were performed upon the Hotel gong. This brought
the landlord on the scene with more haste than ele-
gance, who, with terror depicted on every feature, in-
formed us that we would alarm the boarders. For fear
of disturbing so ethereal a creature as the Goshen Hotel
boarder, we immediately desisted. Supper was at last
announced and for a short time we had something to

error.”

I

N

a

a hi Sa em SS

amuse us. Our universal verdict was the bread was
very fair, but so far as the land’s ‘flowing with milk
and honey,’ it was a delusion, a hollow mockery, and qa
fraud. Soon the train arrived, and after considerable
difficulty with some of our more rural members (whom
we were forced to blindfold and back on board the
cars,) we were fairly off for Charlottesville. Sleep dur-—
ing the trip was rather a thing to be remembered than
actually enjoyed. One irate old gentleman, evidently —
inappreciative of the joke, complained that though we —

_occupied the entire train then, on our return we could

all be comfortably deposited in one corner of a single
coach. The gentleman will please consider himself se-
verely rebuked.

“At 3 o’clock Sunday morning we arrived at the
station and were met by rousing cheers of welcome,
Our entire party was kindly taken charge of by the
University students, many of whom gave up their own
rooms for our more comfortable entertainment. After
yelling ourselves hoarse, we proceeded to our several
apartments, and gently but quickly ‘put us in our
little beds.’

“Sunday we all went to church. (We insert this
at the urgent request of the younger members of our
party). [he remaining time before the game was to
take place, was spent in visiting the various points of
interest and in admiring the ‘calico,’ which we did in
the most approved and impressionable manner.

‘Monday morning was dark and cloudy, and great
fears were entertained that the weather would prove
too unfavorable for the game to take place. The sun,
however, seeming to understand what was expected of
him, came out brightly about ten o’clock and rendered
the ground excellent for playing. By two o’clock all”
was excitement, and by the time the game was called
a large crowd had assembled to witness the test of
superiority in the paragon of college sports. Red and_
gray floated from everything—fair forms, strong arms,
small negroes. The prospect was very discouraging, -
and was enough to cause stouter hearts than ours to-
tremble. During the sixth inning we received valuable
allies and strong lungs to our cause, as every little
negro in Charlottesville came over to our’s, the win-
ning side, and declared they were for ‘them Wash.
and Lee fellers.’

‘‘We must do our opponents the justice of saying
that both they and their sympathizers treated us with
great fairness and courtesy, as throughout the entire
game nothing unpleasant was said, and the good plays
of our Nine were always applauded. Indeed some of
the ladies were so kind as to present certain members.
of our Nine with handsome bouquets, whether in ap-

(Continued on page 13)

[ 6 ]

 

 

T 2

mm (eh: Ap Ae Be al

 

—_—_—_

A Little
White House
In the Hills

ALLAN McDowE.E tt, 1909
Avocational Architect

ees McDowELt, teacher
of mathematics in Kent
School, Kent, Conn., designed
and built the house he lives
in. He has designed other
houses. [his one was describ-
ed, with these photographs in
the October Pictorial Review
anc it is through their courtesy
that it is here reprinted and
the photographs shown.
To the family which re-
' quires three bedrooms and two
baths in addition to a living room and kitchen, and
wants them all on one floor, this gem of a house,
situated high up in the rolling hills of Connecticut,
should be especially appealing.

The porch across the
front is arranged
with a roof over but
a portion of it; the
flooring is flagstone.

Not often are three bedrooms and two baths
found in a house of this size, but the requirements
of the family which built it made it necessary to
that arrangement. The architect arranged
them in what might be termed a wing of their own,
it being possible to shut them off completely from

have

the living room. Although the house contains these
hve rooms, an extremely livable porch amounts
practically to another room, being used by the fam-
ily whenever the weather permits.

 

. The illustration of the house exterior on this
| page is the view across the front, the large win-
dow shown being that of the living room. Also
pictured are interior views of the living room,
having been taken in such a way as to show just
how the architect has handled this window, which
_ 1s a delightful feature of the little house. It looks
Out across the valley and extends out in such a way
that the view can be enjoyed to the right and left
as well.
The dining space in the kitchen has been ar-
ranged in front of the window there, affording a
most delightful place to enjoy one’s meals. The
door shown in the foreground of the exterior il-
lustration is the service entrance to the kitchen.

In arranging the living room and _ kitchen
4cross the front in this manner the architect has

 

vm

 

Pine paneling is used on walls
and ceiling of the living room.
The old furniture mingling
with the modern makes this
with the modern makes this a
most attractive lounging spot.

This large window affords an
unobstructed picture of the
beautiful valley that stretches
for miles before the house.

EY]

a

 

T 1 A tL .U Mie

taken advantage of the view for the daytime rooms, the
bedrooms and baths extending out to the rear.

The main entrance to the house is from the porch,
which is partly covered by a roof, one section having
been left uncovered to permit sitting in the sun if de-
sired. The entrance doorway leads directly into the
living room, the kitchen being located to the right as
one enters. The living room is finished in pine paneling
on walls and ceiling, the beams having been left ex-
posed. A huge fireplace fitted with crane, kettle, and
andirons that had seen many years of service before
starting their task of helping to heat and cheer this
home, is on the inner wall of the room. This is a par-
ticularly cheery spot, with a mixture of old and new
in its furnishings.

From the living room a small hallway extends
directly toward the rear, and off this are the bedrooms
and baths. The master bedroom, to the left at the end,
has a connecting bath, and the other two bedrooms have
a bath between them. Paper is used on the walls of the
bedrooms, and its gay colorings, together with the ivory
of the trim, make the chambers particularly cheery.

The kitchen, too, has paper on the walls, and in
one corner is an old-fashioned cupboard to hold the
wares used on the dining table. There is an interesting
arrangement of shelves across the large kitchen win-
dow, providing space for flowers and odd pieces of
glassware which glisten there in the sun.

The exterior of the house is white, and the roof
has been left in the natural state. The trim is also white,
but the doors and blinds are blue, which color forms a
pleasing contrast with the white walls and trim. The
house is of shingles on walls and roof.

Oil is used for heating this house, and an air-
conditioning apparatus during the summer season makes
it extremely livable the whole year.

A house of this type can be built for around $6,000,
depending on local conditions, material prices, and labor
costs.

 

ry
VV

Birthplace of Lincoln’s Father

THE FARM and homeplace in Rockingham county
of Captain Abraham Lincoln, grandfather of the mar-
tyred President, and where Thomas Lincoln, the Presi-
dent’s father was born, has been definitely located on
Linville Creek about five miles northwest of Harrison-
burg, Va., according to Dr. John Walter Wayland, em-
inent Shenandoah Valley historian and a member of
the faculty of the State Teachers’ College.

Dr. Wayland revealed this in an interesting talk
before the Harrisonburg Kiwanis club. He cited num-
erous incidents which have not been published in his
histories.

I

[8]

RA CA ie AS Ze a eo

Captain Lincoln, the President’s grandfather,
owned 250 acres of rich Rockingham county land be-
fore he migrated to Kentucky. He was considered
wealthy, having amassed a fortune estimated at $25,000,
a very large sum in those days. His wife was a member
of the Herring family which came from Eastern Vir-
ginia. The Lincoln family reached Virginia via Penn-
sylvania.

Dr. Wayland said the sale of the Lincoln land and
its boundary lines has been traced by himself and John
C. Myers, superintendent of schools. He added that the |
family left Rockingham for Kentucky when Thomas
Lincoln was three or four years old.

The Virginia John Lincoln house still stands along
Linville Creek. Virginia John Lincoln established the
Lincoln family in Virginia, coming here from Pennsyl-
vania about 1740. This dwelling has fine hand-carved
mantlepieces and doors. ‘The Lincoln family grand-
father’s clock was recently sold. In coming to the Val-
ley of Virginia, John Lincoln selected the choicest farm
lands in the country to establish his homestead.

The old Lincoln burying ground is near the Lin-
coln home. Close by is the graveyard of the slaves,
showing that the ancestors of Abraham Lincoln owned
slaves while prosperous farmers in Virginia.

A picture of this Lincoln home was published in
the November Alumni Magazine, in connection with
notes on the Switzer brothers of Harrisonburg, tele-
phone executives there.

ry
were

A Columnist on Dr. Gaines

PREXY BREWS A BIT OF COFFEE

The most consistently good speaker in Virginia,
according to my observations as a chronicler of news,
is Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Wash-
ington and Lee University. He is one of the few
people in the world who can not only remember jokes, —
but can tell them as well as Irvin Cobb.

They tell me that he remembers names and faces,
too; that he was not at dear old W. & L. U. but two
weeks before he could call the names of 950 young gen-
tlemen pursuing higher learning there.

He is young and apparently likes to work hard
(a rather bad sign, I think). Anyway he gets up about
5 o'clock in the morning without the aid of an alarm
clock.

He then puts on a coffee percolator.
then a brief siesta.

Follows

When the coffee has bubbled enough, the aroma
awakens the president and he starts the day’s work.

 

A £ aM N

I

eS = &£& aA: 2 = ee

A Cynic Looks at Washington and Lee

By FE. N. S. Grrarp

E OF THE younger generation are proud of our

cynicism. We look life squarely in the face, see
its faults and vices, understand them—rarely, we rise
above them. But ours is not the hard-bitten, bitter
attitude of older people who are inconvertibly set and
harsh in their judgment. We can be shaken from our
detached view-point, made to feel, for a brief instant
at least, that perhaps we are mistaken in our whole out-
look on life. I am so shaken when I look at Washing-
ton and Lee.

For cynics are prone to base their beliefs on reason
and fact, and I can find no reason for what I feel.
Other schools, from a reasonable point of view, are
better than this one. ‘Their equipment is more modern,
their faculties more highly trained, their student bodies
more liberal and intelligent, their campuses as beautiful.
And yet ... there is an essential fineness in this univer-
sity that I can’t account for, an element that makes it
rise superior to any faults that it has. ‘The fact is dis-
concerting.

It is disconcerting because I see those faults so
plainly. We are most proud, perhaps, of our honor
system and the high calibre of our student body. Do
those prides stand up under keen, impartial scrutiny ?
The fair answer must be no.

The honor system is not rigidly enforced nor ad-
hered to. This fact is recognized by the majority of stu-
dents. They feel that if a man is strictly honest in his ex-
aminations and not glaringly at fault in his other work,
he is living up to the honor system as it is practiced on
the campus today. ‘his attitude is not consistent with
our postulation of the system and may well be fatal
to it. Laxity may eventually lead to disintegration,
nor can the system be modified without destruction.
This problem is glossed over, left to be worked out by
chance. Surely, we can not be proud of our reaction
here.

Perhaps I overestimate the importance of this ten-
dency toward laxity. The honor system, after all,
has nothing to give those who break it. Its value, its
contribution to this university, lies in the opportunity
it affords every member of the student body of being
honest, not because he has to be, but because he wants
to be. It is for this reason that abolishment of the
system would be fatal. It would remove that oppor-
tunity and with it the greatest single aid to character
development that we possess. No idle loss.

Criticism of the honor system is obvious ; evaluation

[9 ]

of our student body must be more subtle. We are
marked by the rigid code of ethics that binds us. The
form that the code has taken through years of develop-
ment is of no immediate concern, but its stiffness, its
narrowness, is. For that feature of the code is its bad
feature. Conformity to a type is its aim and we must
conform or be damned. There is no need to elaborate
the vicious results of such a condition. Individuality
is stifled, liberal minds are unwelcome, everyone is
forced into the standard mold. Perhaps the type pro-
duced by this standarization is high, perhaps more men
are raised than lowered, but we cannot be proud of any
system that lowers even one.

There are other characteristics, other defects, of
the student body worthy of mention because they typify
conditions in the larger world that cynics are quick to
pounce upon. Fraternity politics with the evil that fol-
lows them have been discussed so thoroughly that they
need be mentioned only in passing. Honor societies,
too, are not always honest in their selection of men.
But there is no need to amplify the list. justice is not
perfect here, merit not always rewarded, fraud and dis-
honesty are not alien to this campus. We are but little
freer from conditions that shatter ideals, embitter young
hearts, than the outside world.

These are our major faults and I see them plainly,
yet they do not have the effect they should. Ideals are
not shattered, hearts not embittered, at Washington and
Lee. ‘There are obvious reasons for this—a powerful
background of tradition, a frank, liberal faculty, care-
fully chosen students; but there is something besides,
something that touches those of us who love this uni-
versity and marks us for the rest of our lives. Not
everyone feels it. Some lack the respousive chord it
can touch. They merely live near it, a superficial part
of the whole, never really absorbed into it or one with it.

What is this power that, while it does: not blind
us to faults in plain view, makes us rise above them,
recognize that they are incidental to the main current
of life here? What is this spirit that shakes cynics?

I think it must be the fine lives that have gone into
the building of Washington and Lee. From the earliest
beginning of this institution men have given it more
than they could ever hope to have returned. ‘They have
labored and sacrificed, without reward, but with glorious
hope and confidence in their hearts that some day in
some fashion that labor and sacrifice would receive its
due. Is this their reward, this ‘immortality that shapes

Some se Ee aS

young lives in patterns wholly good. For it is an im-
mortality, perhaps the greatest that man can receive.
Each day we are in communication with them. Each
building that we use, each class, each privilege, each
tradition, came from their work. Shakespeare was
wrong—the good these men have done has not died
with them. It is as much alive today as ever, giving
force and meaning to our life here. I shall not re-
member Lee for anything but that which he gave to this
university, for that is the gift that will go on yielding
revenue until the end of time through men who come
into contact with it on this campus.

No fault, or combination of faults is more powerful
than the example these men have set us. It rises above
petty politics, breaches of honor, steady, unwavering.
It is the thing that we will have to remember in years to
come.

Washington and Lee in retrospect, when we are
gone, will not stand forth as the place where we first
learned that injustice and fraud exist. Rather, it will
be forever where we learned that there is a force greater
than these, a force that makes us see them in their true
perspective—incidental, unimportant, incapable of af-
fecting minds and hearts supported by honesty and
courage.

Surely no greater lesson can be taught.

—Reprinted from The Southern Collegian.

ry
VV

Student Editorial

IN AN EFFORT to rival the ancient Court of the
Spanish Inquisition, fraternity men on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus are engaged at present in devising
novel schemes of barbarism to inflict upon their pledges
prior to initiation. With Hell Week either in full swing
or about to begin at most of the fraternities, beating,
public shining, and all-night excursions are favorite
forms of amusement, a survey made by The Ring-tum
Phi indicates.

Of the twenty fraternities on the campus, three
houses to date have completely abolished Hell Week.
Another fraternity is considering such action. Three
or four others are modifying their programs this year
and are considering either reducing the amount of phy-
sical punishment or eliminating it entirely.

In an attempt to avoid publicity of an unsavory
sort, most of the fraternities have done away with pub-
lic shining, confining most of the Hell Week activities
to the sanctity of the fraternity house. The remainder
of the fraternities are putting their pledges through a
“regular, old-fashioned Hell Week.”

One fraternity has decided to utilize the efforts
of the freshman advantage. Instead of spending all
their time bringing in horses, dogs, and pigs, the pledges

[ 10 ]

I

MiaAavG MA 2 twat

  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
    

are painting several of the rooms in the fraternit
house. 7

In some of the fraternities, Hell Week still lacs
a full seven days, during which the pledges spend most
of their time, day and night, amusing the “old men
at the house. The majority of the fraternities have ey
down the period of barbarism to four or five days
Freshman athletics, as much as anything else, have
been largely responsible for the shortening of the Hel
Week period. Because of training rules and because of
athletic trips scheduled for frosh teams during is
period, many fraternities have found it necessary te
iimit Hell Week to little more than half of its usua
length. | 4

Despite resolutions passed by national fraternities
favoring the abolition of Hell Week and physical pun-
ishment, fraternities on this campus have been sloy
in making any changes in the time-honored system. A
few progressive individuals among the fraternity men.
investigation shows, favor the elimination of Hell
Week, but these men are decidedly in the minority ir
most of the houses.

                       

iti
Vv

$360,000 to V. M. |.

a

V. M. I.’s application for $360,000 of CWA
funds for the construction of a new mess hall am
other buildings has recently been given final sanction
by the authorities in Washington. i

V. M. I. will build a fireproof mess hall with
kitchen and commissary department, alter and add t
its chemical laboratory building and military store anc
tailor shop, and construct a three-story basement fire-
proof utilities building. The public works administra:
tion said this would employ 125 men for 10 months.

Four other Virginia colleges were allotted funds
recently by the CWA. They are as follows:

William and Mary, Williamsburg, $650,000. |

State Teachers’ College, Fredericksburg, $360,000.

Virginia State College for Negroes, Petersburg
$262,000. |

State Teachers’ College, Harrisonburg, $140,000.

The mess hall at V. M. I. will cost $200,000; util-
ities building $90,000; improvements to the chemistry
building, $40,000; and improvements to the military
store and tailor shop, $30,000. |

a iiceciainteale
yy =

THE GRIDIRON efforts of three of Washington
and Lee’s Generals were recognized by their nomina
tion for honorable mention on the all-American selec
tion of the Associated Press. Captain Amos Bolen, at
guard, Joe Sawyers, at halfback, and John Hanley, at
end, were the three named.

 

as  'M N

I

we ee ee ee

Fancy Dress Ball

a SPLENDOR of nineteenth century Russia was

Cy revived here Friday night, January 26, as the
students of Washington and Lee University and their
friends turned back the pages of history and became
for a few hours the people of imperial Russia celebrat-
ing the coronation of the Emperor Alexander ITT.

It was the twenty-eighth Fancy Dress Ball] at
Washington and Lee. Red and gold decorations, in
which the double eagle of the Romanoffs predominated,
transformed Doremus gymnasium into an historically
accurate reproduction of the interior of the Cathedral
of the Ascension within the Kremlin in Moscow, where
the coronation took place.

The walls were covered with an imitation of the
red velour bearing the gold double eagle with which
the walls of the ancient cathedral were hung at the
time of the coronation. ‘Two rows of six pillars each
formed an aisle to the throne dais at one end of the
room. White cylindrical lamps, from the gold bases
of which sprouted red candles were suspended from the
ceiling. . |

The twenty-foot red columns bore five-foot gold
figures of Romanoff saints, while in the gold-arched
recesses of the six windows on each side of the room
were more figures of royal family saints.

Above the throne dais hung a pyramid-shaped can-
opy of gold lattice on amber background. Fringed
gold drapery hung from its edges, and on the front of
it was a large gold double eagle.

The figure, which was the main event of the ball,

represented a review of his attendant subjects by the
new emperor. Led by the courtiers, the representatives
from throughout the empire in the colorful costumes
of the various section and classes, marched into the
room through an entrance behind the throne and as-
sembled in lines between the pillars.

The grand dukes and their ladies followed and took
a position at the opposite end of the room from the
throne, forming with the other guests a long rectangle,
open at the end near the throne. A fanfare of trumpets
heralded the entrance of the emperor and empress, im-
personated by Harvard P. Smith, President of Fancy
Dress, of Murfreesboro, Tenn., and Miss Dorothy
Fly of Shelbyville, Tenn., who walked the length of
the room between the lines of guests to the point where
the grand dukes’ group stood.

After intricate marching around the hall, the court
guests filed past the throne dais, from the steps of which
the emperor handed each couple a gift which was passed
down to him by the empress. Then, with a spotlight
upon them, the emperor and empress descended to the
floor as the orchestra broke into a waltz and the entire
group danced.

The list of chaperones was headed by Mrs. Francis
Pendleton Gaines, wife of the president of Washing-
ton and Lee, and Miss Annie White, originator of
ancy Dress Ball and patron of it all these years.
Among the chaperones from outside the university
circle was Mrs. Patrick J. Hurley, wife of the former
Secretary of War.

Historical Broadcast

ANY OF OUR alumni may have listened on
the night of the Fancy Dress Ball, January
26, 1934, to a Washington and Lee broad-
cast, sponsored by the National Life and Accident In-
surance Company of Tennessee, and broadcast by their
own artists over WSM, Nashville. Throughout the
year WSM_ has been broadcasting programs which
featured the traditions, personalities, and songs of the
major American universities.

Professor L. E. Watkin of the English Depart-
ment and Director of Dramatics at Washington and
l.ee was requested by President Gaines to write a pro-
gram to represent Washington and Lee. Professor

t

Watkin did so, asking WSM that they clear space for
the broadcast on the night of Fancy Dress. It had been
announced that in all likelihood the Fancy Dress Ball
would be broadcast from the gym, and it seemed pos-
sible that Washington and Lee would be very much on
the air the night of January 26. However, when the
Fancy Dress broadcast failed to materialize, this date
was still considered appropriate, and the concluding
slangy skit, representing Freshmen in the college dorm
discussing the Ball, was retained for its possible ap-
peal to younger listeners in the radio audience.

For the benefit of those who did not hear the
WSM broadcast we present a detailed summary.

[ 11 |

i =U oo 2 2 Moe

The framework of the broadcast was the arrival
of a tourist couple at the Lee Chapel. The questions
they posed to Harvey Myers, who was, until his death
this year janitor at the Chapel, gave a chance to rep-
resent the famed traditions of the University focused
in the Lee Chapel. A student working in the chapel
made a fourth actor. This quartet carried a large part
of the skit; then there were historical flashbacks sep-
arated by musical interludes breaking up the conver-
sation. For example, one of the tourists, the father, is
curious about Washington’s connection with the college.

Henry: Can you tell me the relationship of Wash-
ington to this college? Did he found it?

STUDENT: No, sir, but he gave it shares amounting to
$50,000, which was a lot of money in those days.

Moruer: In those days?

STUDENT: Well, you see it was like this. .

( Music)

Washington’s secretary speaks: Two gentlemen are
awaiting your pleasure, your excellency.

in 1798...

WasHINGTOoN : Tobias, I have told you that such titles,
aping the custom of foreign courts are unbefitting.
You are to call me Mr. Washington or Mr. Pres-
ident, nothing more.

SECRETARY: Yes, your grace.

WASHINGTON: You rogue. Who are the gentlemen ?

SECRETARY: Representatives to our congress from
Western Virginia, General Andrew Moore and
General Francis Preston.

(These two gentlemen are shown in; they ask aid
for Liberty Hall. Washington interrupts them, ex-
plaining that he has a letter from Lighthorse Harry
Lee commending William Graham, rector of Liberty
Hall. The dialogue also explains that before 1800 Lib-
erty Hal] had produced General Samuel Blackburn,
author of the anti-duelling law; David Campbell, judge
of the supreme court of Tennessee, Archibald Roan,
an early governor of Tennessee; seven generals in the
Revolution, two U. S. Senators, and six presidents of
other institutions. )

WASHINGTON: I have ever been desirous of helping
those who help themselves, while to promote lit-
erature in this rising empire, and to encourage
the arts have ever been among the warmest wishes

of my heart.
(Fade out. . .music)
Henry: So you took the $50,000, and what did you do
with it?

StupENT: We still have it. They changed the name to
Washington College, and it wasn’t long before we
had another bequest of $50,000 from a Revolu-
tionary soldier, John Robinson. He left all his

[ 12 |

I

  
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
  

a 4

:

N :
a

Mm in 8 ma 2

personal possessions to the college, too, including
a barrel of whiskey.
Henry: You still have that?

(Next Harvey conducts the visitors upstairs where
they see the recumbent statue of Lee and the Peale
portrait of Washington. Old Harvey, looking out at
the empty chapel seats, remarks: “Out dere’s wheh
the scholahs set at gradyation. When them fidles play |
College Friendships make them scholahs want to cry,
Kin almos’ heah it now. Listen!’ C ollege Friendships
is sung softly.)

(The next two skits in order were historical
flashbacks, the first a dramatization of the faculty
meeting in 1865 when General Lee was nominated by
Colonel Christian: and Judge Brockenbrough, rector
of Washington College was sent to acquaint General
Lee with the determination of the college, Brocken-
brough being assured of decorous appearance by a
suit of broadcloth borrowed from Mr. Barclay, who
had it from a son living in the North.)

(The second of the skits about Lee presented him
as in his chapel office reproving a student, a Mr. Jones,
for his low grades.) |

Lee: That is a very low average.

Jones: Yes, sir, but the temperature in the colleay
buildings has not been much higher.

Ler: Had the temperature been ninety would you have
made ninety?

Jones: No, sir, but... |

Lee: You can not afford to wait for warmer weather,
Mr. Jones. I have it from Professor White
you area quiet, orderly young man, but very care-
ful not to injure the health of your father’s son.
Now I do not wish any of the young men to in-
jure their health seriously, but I wish them to
come as near it as possible. . . ;

Jones: But, General Lee. . .

LEE: Sir?

Jones: Nothing. Pardon me, sir. |

Lee: (Gravely.) Only patience and industry will pre-
vent the inevitable failure that will come to you
through college and through life. . .

JonEs: But, General. . .

LrE: Yes?

Jones: Nothing, sir.

LEE: Young man, speak out!

Jones: Well, General, you. . -you failed.

Lee: Ah, but we are expecting greater things from
you. We hope that you may be more fortunate
than IT. . .(Fade out.)

(The skit that followed carried the visitors to
some of the familiar places on the campus. Many things

a. 2s

EEE

oo as iw €=6N

indigenous to Washington and Lee were explained:
the selected student body, the “Hi, gentlemen!”, the
\Vashington statue and the McCormick statue, Fresh-
man night, law students with their canes, the political
tradition fostered by the law school, and some of the
famous alumni now known as statesmen. In the con-
cluding scene you heard the pert Freshmen in their
dormitory rooms discussing Fancy Dress.)

Throughout the broadcast, songs of Washington
and Lee were sung by male voices, and the concluding
song was written by Professor Watkin.

The tune is Professor Watkin’s own, written with
the critical help of Professor Henry V. Shelley, who
harmonized it. Professor John A. Graham later ar-
ranged it for a male quartet, and in this form it was
sent over the radio. The words were as follows:

We have seen thy columns gleaming
When the day was bright.

And in mystery lie dreaming
Through the Southern night.

When the spring comes up the valley
Touching every tree,

Loveliest thy beauty, Washington and Lee.

May the time that seams the granite
Use thee like a friend;

May the men that are thy children
Thy fair name defend.

Blue and White hues are the right hues
To betoken thee

Honor to thy colors, Washington and Lee.

In the pride of great tradition
Keep thy flag unfurled.
Though inglorious ambition
Overwhelm the world.
If tomorrow brings its sorrow
There wil] always be
Shining through the darkness, Washington and
Lee.

 

Alumni in West Virginia

LAFE B. CuHarin, 1917, of Charleston, writes:
“I want to call your attention to the part Washington
and Lee men have played and are playing in the po-
litical affairs of West Virginia. It occurred to me that
you might want to give it some publicity in your mag-
azine. To begin with we have John W. Davis, Newton
D. Baker and a host of others of national prominence.
Under the “New Deal’ in this state we have Herbert
Fitzpatrick as our National Committeeman. As our
state chairman we have Robert G. (Bob) Kelly, under
whom we carried the entire state ticket in 1932, and

I

ms A Oe oe Uw LS Ue

for the first time in nearly forty years the Democrats
are in complete control in both the legislative and ex-
ecutive branches. Homer A. (Rocky) Holt is Attorney-
General. John J. D. Preston has been appointed a mem-
ber of the Public Service Commission, a most impor-
tant post. E. A. Hansbarger is an assistant to the Tax
Commissioner. Kenneth Hines is an assistant Attorney
General. There are any number of others holding im-
portant positions.”

ry
VV

New Students

SEVEN NEW students have enrolled at Washing-
ton and Lee for the second semester, with the probabil-
ity that several more will be added.

The new students and their home towns are as
follows: Herbert Baltuch, New York City; Barnum
Coolidge, Muskegon, Michigan; William Clay Dwig-
gins, Lakeland, Florida; Albert Edward Martin, Bal-
timore, Maryland; Jack Keith White, Evanston, IIl-
inois; Alfred Flournoy Zachary, West Point, Georgia ;
and Jerry Martin Gabriel, Freeport, New York.

All but two of the new students, Martin and
Zachary, are registered as members of the freshman
class.

 

ry
VV

To Settle a Controversy
(Continued from page 6)

preciation of their fine plays or good looks, it is dif-
ficult to decide.

“The University Nine played well, but the ‘Sykes
Curve’ was too much for them. One of the players
told us confidentially that he changed his mind five
times after the ball left the pitcher’s hand as to how
he should strike at it. The ‘curve’ excited more com-
ment and admiration than either the Keely Motor or
Phonograph has ever done.

“At night we were tendered an elegant banquet
by the University Club. The usual toasts were proposed
and heartily received. The charming manner in which
the University Club bore their defeat, and the good
spirit that prevailed around the ‘festal board,’ is pleas-
ant to remember.

“We were also recipients of kind attention at the
hands of the Faculty. Just before our departure we
were invited to partake of lunch at Professor Ven-
able’s. The handsome and courteous way in which we
were entertained, won our hearts immediately. After
leaving Prof. Venable’s we proceeded to the depot and
boarded the train for Lexington, amidst renewed
cheers, feeling that even defeat could not fail to pos-
sess charms, if received at the hands of such courteous
gentlemen and kind hosts.”

[ 13 ]

a *. 2 eee

MAGoaAZi1iiw

 

A Resume of Winter Sports

By ANDERSON BROWNE

Nx THE eve of the Southern conference tourna-
ments which will be held in
throughout the circuit the opening week in
March, we look back to see that the Generals have been

various colleges

enjoying one of their best winter sports seasons in
several years.

Only the basketball team has come in for more
than its share of the losses, but the splendid fight that
the team has put up on every occasion indicates that it
is just unfortunate this season in meeting stiff competi-
Cy Young’s basketeers are still
The most

tion. At this writing,
above water with seven wins and six losses.
interesting thing about the basketball situation is the
intense natural rivalry with Virginia and the scores of
of the two games
already played. The
Generals downed
the Cavaliers in
Lynchburg January
11 by a score of 26-
25 and only the
other day Virginia
reversed the com-
pliment over at
Charlottesville with
a 31-30 victory.
The third game has
yet to be played.
The basketball
season opened with
victories against St.
Johns and Virginia,
then the team hit
a slump and drop-
ped five straight
contests. North
Carolina State and
the University of
North Carolina
both won, then
West Virginia, and
two games with
Duke resulted in
Blue Devil victor-
ies. The team snap-
ped out of it to
match their five
losses with as many
consecutive wins,

 

Jor PETTe

[ 14 ]

 
  

trimming William
and Mary, N. C.
State, Richmond,
and two over V. P.
I. Contests with

George Washing-
ton and Virginia
remain. A game

was also scheduled
for Maryland, but
the administration
did not see its way
clear to allow extra
cuts for the team.
Coach Mathis
is demonstrating
beyond all doubt
this fall that he is
one of the best mat
coaches in the coun-
try. Starting from
scratch (and we
really mean scratch,
for he found him-
self at the start of
the season without two Southern conference champions, ~
Bob Munger and Rowland Thomas. That would be
enough to make any coach give up the game for basket
making or something). He has built up a team that 1s ~
favored beyond all doubts to carry off the Southern”
conference title in Blacksburg for the third straight”
year.

Jog SAWYERS

There have been no defeats, naturally, and the
biggest scare came in the meet with Navy which ended —
at 16-all. Navy was the team last year that handed ‘
Mathis his first defeat in nearly half a decade. He was —
particularly anxious to get at the midshipmen this year, —
but his handicapped team outdid itself in getting a tie. |
Flowers and orchids should go to Hugo Bonino, in the ~
heavyweight division, for throwing his man in the final
fight to add the five points Washington and Lee SO —
dearly needed for a tie.

During the first part of the season, the material —
that Mathis had to choose from was so evenly matched —
that he used two separate teams. In the debut meet
against Johns Hopkins, Co-Captain Pritchard led an in-
experienced team to a 31-5 victory. Frank Crew, John |
Taylor, Doc Sloan, Glenn Shively, J. Walker, Ed Seitz, ~
and Hugo Bonino were the other Generals in the open= {

 

T, 2s —- bs MRM N

I

uA 4S. 2 OS ee

 

ing meet. One veteran, six sophomores, and a transfer
student made up that squad. The following week,
Co-Captain Smith led his team, (composed ot Van
Voast, Fred Sarkis, Southern conference champion at
125, Bob Shively, Ruge DeVan, Leroy Hodges, David

Bennett, and Hugo

Zonino) to a white-

 

wash victory over
the Roanoke Y. M.
C. A., 34-0.

The most amus-
ing thing about this

dual team is the
fact that coaches
never know — just
who will be in the
ring against their
own grapplers until
time for the meet.
Iveryone is still
laughing at the
story about the
N orth Carolina

State _ wrestling
coach who cleverly
sat in on the meet
with N. C. U. so he could get a line on the Generals’
modus pugnandi and diligently wrote down point after
point. Well informed, he broke all the news to his
own team whom the Generals were to meet the fol-
The reports have it that he nearly went

 

PRITCHARD

CHARLIE

lowing day.
insane when the loud speaker system announced the
Washington and Lee line-up and only the name of
Bonino was familiar to him. Mathis was using seven
different men against State.

Along with his spring grid training, Tex Tilson is
also coaching the boxers again this winter and making
a fine job of it all. The conference tourney, which is
held ahead of the others, will be over by the time this
edition of the magazine comes off the press. The Gen-
erals have three wins and a loss chalked up in the record
books thus far, and a meet with Navy is scheduled for
after the tournament. N. C. State succeeded in’ trim-
ming the Generals, but the boxers were successful in
outslugging Roanoke College, V. P. I., and Maryland.
Eddie Mincher met his traditional rival, John Garner,
of N. C. State, but he couldn’t win the fight this time.
This friendly rivalry is almost a legend in the South-
ern conference.

Although football is far from being a winter sport,
we feel inclined to mention it briefly. Tilson has been
working the boys pretty hard for two weeks or more
now. and from the looks of things, the squad should be
able to duplicate the fine work again this coming year

that it did last. ‘The main thing on the books at the
moment is to “get Princeton.”
ward to this.

The swimming team is making its bid for attention
on the campus again this winter, but unfortunately
there are too many students who never appreciate the
fine work that ‘Twombly and his natators do. Four
meets have been scheduled, and the three that were

The Generals look for-

played resulted in two wins and a loss. Virginia came
through to win, while the Generals outswam William
and Mary and North Carolina State. Duncan Mc-
David, far the outstanding man on the squad, is one of
the leading sprint swimmers in the Southern confer-
ence. He has taken three first places in every meet.
The Brigadiers, too, are doing their part to make
the season a successful one. The boxers have yet to win,
however, and have lost five meets, but the wrestlers,
basketeers and swimmers are carrying the honors of the
University to high levels. Naturally the freshman
erapplers haven't lost in six meets and it rounds out
the sixth consecutive undefeated season that the Mathis-
trained men have recorded. ‘The swimmers are just
about even, with three wins and three losses.

Cy Twombly is certainly developing a good basket-
ball squad. There has been only one loss in a dozen
games, and even that has a story behind it. The Brig-
adiers had two games scheduled for one day, the first
with Emerson High School of Washington and the
second with the
Jaby Terps of
Maryland. T he
jrigadiers wer e
forced into an extra
period game to de-
feat Emerson and
then had to take a
car immediately for
College Park to play
Maryland. Mary-
fresher team
thus able to
down the ‘Twombly
squad.

W. N.
sports writer of the
Norfolk Virginian-
Pilot writes that A.
E. Mathis, John Ken-
held,
at North Carolina, and John la Rowe, boxing men-
tor at Virginia, are the outstanding coaches in the
south today. He also stated that Washington and
Lee appeared to be the best rounded sports school
in Virginia this year.

 

0 a Gt RR

land’s
was

ae

HARVARD SMITH

tennis coach

[ 15 ]

Memorials to Lee |

The Three Swords of Lee

On GENERAL LEE’s birthday there took place in
the historic rooms of Arlington a drama by Matthew
Page Andrews, class of 1901, called the ‘Three
Swords of Lee.’ The lines of the play were given with
great faithfulness of historic accent and manner and
the atmosphere of four great moments in the life of
Robert . Lee were brought to life in a moving and
artistic and dramatic way. |

The first act was Arlington in April, 1861, when
Colonel Robert E. Lee of the United States Army was
offered a Major-Geneéralship in charge of forces to
put down rebellion in the South. Scene 1 of Act 2
took place in Richmond the following week when Lee
was offered the same rank in the Confederate Army.
Scene 2 took place in the trenches outside of Rich-
mond on May 31, 1862, a tragic episode of the war.
Act 3 was one month later—Richmond to Malvern Hill.

This was a nation-wide broadcast over the Co-
lumbia System and the exact drama as given at Arling-
ton has been preserved on Victor phonograph records
selling in a set of records complete for $10.

The author of this drama was painstakingly ac-
curate in representing the actual words of General Lee
and members of his family and other historical per-
sonalities who took part in these historic scenes. The
records will be an inspiration to all future genera-
tions in revealing this great American; in preserving
his historic utterances and portraying his manner, his
voice, his character and the environment of his times.
The phonograph records are not only for preservation
but for practical use in libraries, schools, clubs and
private instruction and entertainment.

Any further information about them can be got
by writing Historical Broadcasts, 704 National Press
Bldg., Washington, D. C.

The Alumni Association of Washington and Lee
congratulates the author with gratitude for a service
in history that will be increasingly important and ap-
preciated by future generations.

Ly
Vv

Memorial Planting
A PROPOSAL to expend $1,000 in memorial plant-
ing around the Lee Chapel has been made by the Gar-
den Club of Virginia and accepted by the board of
trustees of the University.
The offer was extended to the University by Mrs.
Lawrence Davis, president of the garden club, and the

[ 16 ]

~ © DD oe aS

wu “A G A 2 ot ee

  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  

trustees expressed their appreciation in their recent
winter meeting. 4

Charles Gillette, well known landscape artist,
preparing the plans for the beautification project. When
work will commence and what the exact nature of the
planting will be has not been announced.

The Garden Club of Virginia is fast completir ng
the restoration of the gardens at the Woodrow Wils
birthplace shrine in Staunton. The state organization
has donated $5,000 as the initial investment in
work.
Charles 5. Gillette, Richmond landscape architec
who drew plans for the restoration, has made his final
inspection of the work and pronounced the result sg
isfactory. 7

Entering from the front gate, access to the gar-
dens is by means of a circular brick walk on each side
of the house. Of old brick, this walk leads to a bri
arbor on the first terrace, at the top of which is a
beautiful English box hedge, over a hundred years old,
which was purchased near Lynchburg. On the first
terrace also is an old well.

A Victorian summer house is a feature of the sec-
ond terrace, while under apple trees, mounded,
planted lilies of the valley. There is a grape arbor on
each side of the walk, under which have been planted
twenty-five varieties of old fashioned roses. Other old-
fashioned roses are used to outline the second terrace. —

On the lower terrace is a Victorian bowknot flower
bed, edged with brick and box, in which thyme, lav-
ender, and heliotrope have been planted. Around the
entire garden is a lilac hedge, and the boundary is
marked by a wall, made of brick, more than a hundrec
years old. The front of the property is bounded by
an old iron fence.

Ly
“orn

Lee: The Final Achievement

UNDER THE above title the Southern Society of
New York publishes two addresses on General Robert
I. Lee by Dr. Gaines. The book is attractively printed,
and bound, and is illustrated.

The first address on the subject of Lee the Edu-
cator was delivered before the New York Southern
Society on one of its historic afternoons. The second
address, “The Gentleman, Lee and the Social Life”,
was delivered at White Sulphur Springs during 1a
week in 1932.

Couched in Dr. Gaines’ fluent style, the papers add

T 2.

—

new ideas to and portray more vividly the conception
of General Lee at Washington college. He is carried
from the far off pinnacle of spiritual idealism to a more
personal viewpoint as he struggled to lay the founda-
tion for a new South. His friendliness, his geniality,
his progressiveness as indicated dispell the idea that
Lee was of a gloomy nature and crushed by defeat. He
conceived and began many of the institutions and
courses that have since developed at the college, show-
ing a vision far in advance of his day.

In the announcement, the society states that the
proceeds from the book will go to Stratford and to its
own enterprises. It does not exaggerate when its says
the book will be an ornament to any library, a valuable
addition to Lee-lore and that it should be available in
both homes and schools.

Copies may be obtained by addressing the New
York Southern Society, Waldorf Astoria hotel, New
York city. The edition is limited with a few auto-
graphed copies.

fy.
vee

January 19

With NortH AND SouTH in one accord today,
the heart of America turns in grateful memory to a
quiet little town in Virginia, where, in the chapel of an
old and honored university, an ideal hero lies asleep.

This was the saying of Lee’s soldiers on a weary
day of the long gone ’60’s, as they tip-toed, hundreds
and thousands of them on the march, past the figure
of their beloved commander at rest by the roadside,
with whispered warning for silence going back and
back along the line, ““Marse Robert is asleep.”

The homely, human tribute of these men chal-
lenges comparison:

In glorious old Westminster
No monument of war,

No marble story half so grand
As this our army saw!

Our leafy old Westminster
Virginia’s woods—now keep,

Immortal, that low whisper,
“Marse Robert is asleep!”

January 19, General Lee’s birthday, is held a day
of honor to his memory, with visitors to the chapel at
Washington and Lee, entering with lowered voices and
bared heads the shrine where this hero, recumbent in
gracious marble likeness, rests among the furled battle
flags of a cause long lost.

And in the same spirit, also, a whole people pauses
in honor to one who remains an ideal of the best for
which a fortunate land may dream of nobleness, piety,

a. 2 Mm NS

a Ae

gentle birth, courage, patriotism, simplicity, honor, and
renunciation.

“I have met many of the great men in my time,”
wrote Lord Wolseley, Commander in Chief of the
British Army, of him long ago, “but Lee alone im-
pressed me with the feeling that I was in the presence
of a man cast in a grander mold and made of different
and finer metals than other men.”

A famous scholar of Oxford, dedicating to Lee a
new translation of the Iliad, paid homage to him on
the fly leaf of the volume as “the most stainless of
earthly commanders and, except in fortune, the
greatest.”

Yet nothing of such high praise does the world
hold so deep in heart as its recollection of the defeated
leader after Gettysburg, absorbed and heart-broken as
he rode to the rear, yet dismounting once to take up
a young bird fallen to the road and restore it to its
nest, and again, to comfort a wounded soldier of the
army that had defeated him, and in the end, to lay
no blame on any shoulders but his own, saying merely,
“Tt was all my fault.”

Something very fine and noble stirs the spirit of
a troubled time as the American people pause today
to pay tribute to a man like this.

(An editorial in the Knoxville Journal, sent, in
loving remembrance, by Charles E. Branham, adver-
tising manager, alumnus, class of 1926.)

fy
VV

“By FaitH Moses, when he was come to years,
refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter ;
choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of
God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season.
Hebrews XI 24-25.—I/nscription on the Lee Window in
old St. Paul’s in Richmond.

eee

Spontaneous Gift to University

THERE ARE published below, without comment
which would be wholly unnecessary, two letters, as a
spontaneous gift the University has recently received.

When the Board of Trustees of the University
created a medal and an award for the annual recognition
of the devoted service to the University of an alumnus,
it was named, and so recorded on the medal, in honor
of Thomas Nelson Page, “beloved son of Washington
and Lee.”

Thomas Nelson Page’s brother, Mr. Roswell Page,
of Oakland, Beaver Dam, Virginia, in recognition of
this tribute to his brother, has written the following
letter and presented to the University the original letter
from Lord Wolesley to Thomas Nelson Page, in which
he pays an exalted tribute to General Lee.

[ 17 ]

_— os es ww ee

Mr. Roswell Page’s Letter

Oakland
Beaver Dam P. O., Virginia

Mr. Harry K. Young, Secretary,
Lexington, Virginia,

Dear Mr. Young:

I enclose the letter of Lord Wolesley to my broth-
er, Thomas Nelson Page who was then at Baggrave
Hall, the home of Major Burnaby who married Thom-
as Nelson Page’s step-daughter—( Leicester, England).
lord Wolesley was as the letter indicates and as he
has published, a great admirer of General Lee; and
this letter to your alumnus Thomas Nelson Page testi-
fies to that admiration in exalted terms.

Letter of Lord Wolesley to Thomas Nelson Page

Villa La ‘Tourette
Boulevard Garavan
Menton

Alpes Maritimes

27th March, 1909 France

Dear Mr. Nelson Page:

You have paid me a great compliment in send- |
ing me your memoir of General Lee, the great
Soldier whom I have always regarded as one of
the very few Leaders of world-wide renown.

Before I received your note of the 19th in-
stant, I had read your book with deep interest.

As a Leader of Armies, Lee will always be
classed with Cesar and Hannibal, with Napoleon
and Wellington; but of those four great Soldiers,
General Robert Lee will always be to me, far the
most interesting as a fellow human being. In all
good qualities which usually adorn the very able
leaders of Armies as well as all the gentle-born
men of every civilized nation, General Lee was
preeminent.

| have met kings, princes and other highly
placed men; but I have only known one General
Robert Lee. When I think of him I think of his
forebear Washington, all of whose best qualities
he seemed to have inherited. When I return home
I shall read your very interesting book, for I never
tire learning about the deeds of the ablest soldier
of my day, one of the very prominent amongst the
world’s gentlemen. Pray accept my warmest
thanks for your present and believe me to be

Very truly yours,

Wolesley.

To Thomas Nelson Page, Esq.,
Baggrave Hall.

(This letter is presented to Washington and Lee
University as an appreciation of the University’s mem-
ory of its alumnus Thomas Nelsan Page, by Roswell
Page, brother of Thomas Nelson Page.)

I

  

ae
+

«
¥

a
¢

mw fk. Sih 2 ae

The Southern Collegian

In No. 1 of Volume LIX The Southern Colj-
legian publishes its autumn number. It is new and smart |
in its makeup and typography. It is dignified and critj- _
cal. It is collegiate in a sober, thoughtful, confirmed —
editorial policy and it is not dull. It is a periodical of ©
critical reviews balanced by the best literary work, in —
creative fields, on the campus. The autumn number js —
recommended to those of our readers who would like,
occasionally, to observe or study one phase of the edu- —
cative process here. These young men who edit and con-
tribute to-this magazine are examples of the system —
here. There is a naturalness, a fluency, an honesty in —
most of the writing and in all the points of view, that —
will encourage any who are skeptical of sincerity, to —
believe that these young men, in a year without grace, —
are healthy in their minds and equipped in their tech- —
nique. ‘a
The first editorial is reprinted. The whole book is —
worth reading.

WE COME OF AGE

CERTAIN penetrating people tell us there is a new
spirit in the school this year. It reflects itself in renewed —
interest in the classroom, on the athletic field, in con-—
versation.

Our reaction is simple and can be condensed into
very few words: It’s about time. For by examination —
of past publications and talks with old-timers, we have —
been struck by the absence of any active, vocal ““aware- —
ness of things” in this country of rolling hills and lovely —
sunsets. Our publications in recent years have been
as dead as the present Republican party; our literary —
and debating societies were a sore spot to many alumni —
who harked back to the days when these organizations —
were an important part of life at Washington and Lee. —
Intellectual interests, the professors tell us, was at a low ©
ebb, and classrooms were a not too unpleasant place in —
which to recuperate from week-end entertainment.

We see some healthy signs of a change. For the —
first time in years, The Ring-tum Phi is pursuing a
vigorous editorial policy. We recall with a great deal —
of pleasure its battle with the forces of local profiteering —
and its considerable victory over them. It is a good —
thing, we feel, when our student leaders can so far —
forget the prejudice againt the so-called “shine” as to —
say what’s on their minds. The literary and debating
societies have had a rebirth and it may be they will again —
become a factor in our student life. The success of the —
football team has been instrumental in awakening in- —
terest. We think the freshman class is fortunate in —
having the leadership of a young gentleman with ideas. —

Perhaps we are approaching a dividing line. In —
a few years we may be producing individuals at Wash-

[ 18 ]

T oe ao oe ae |6CUN

—

ington and Lee instead of a type. That, after all, should
be the function of the small school where close contact
of teacher and student, and among students themselves,
is possible. For too long have we suffered from the
taboos and conventionalities of the sub-average student
who considers it a crime for a man to express an idea
in class and who has an inelegant term for after-class
discussion with the professor. A type usually conforms
to the requirements of those on the lowest level, those
incapable of becoming anything else than what they are.

It is exchange of ideas and note book informa-
tion which educates a man. And ideas are possible
only where expression is free and intelligent. The at-
mosphere, it seems, is beginning to clear.

none ti

A Golden Anniversary

Dr. AND Mrs. JAMES Lewis Howe held open
house on the Washington and Lee campus December
27 to a large number of guests in honor of the fiftieth
anniversary of their wedding. The house was banked
with flowers, golden shades predominating, and a
group of friends outside the window gave a surprise
serenade of appropriate lovely songs. Dr. and Mrs.
Howe were married December 27, 1883, in the Second
Presbyterian church of Scranton, Pa. One of the flow-
er girls in the ceremony, Miss Edith Howe, was pres-
ent at the anniversary. Following the wedding, Dr.
and Mrs. Howe went to Kentucky where Dr. Howe
was professor of chemistry at Central University and
reached that southern clime with the thermometer
twenty-seven degrees below zero. Mrs. Howe was be-
fore marriage Miss Henrietta Marvin of Scranton, Pa.

Two of their three children, Miss Gwendolyn
Howe of Lexington, and Mrs. Frances Howe Stag-
gers of Birmingham, Ala., were present at the anni-
versary. Other guests included Miss Edith Howe of

I

ae, ae. oe. ee Ge ee

Newburyport, Mass., two grandchildren, John Marvin
Moore and little Rucker Staggers, and Dr. William
Staggers of Birmingham.

 

fy
Vv

Professor Flournoy’s Poems

PRoFEssSOR FIrzGERALD FLOURNOY, member of
the English department, has had fifteen poems ac-
cepted for publication by various magazines within the
last six months. Not all of these poems have as yet
been published, but they will appear in the near future.

He has had several poems accepted by “Kaleido-
graph,” published in Dallas, Texas; and two of his
poems have been reprinted in “Bright Excalibur,” a
yearly anthology of poetry selected from those pub-
lished in “‘Kaleidograph.” Other magazines which have
published Mr. Flournoy’s poems are “Bozart and Con-
temporary Verse,” published at Ogelthorpe University,
“Poetry and Music,” published at Atlantic City, and
‘Sonnet Sequences,” which is frequently quoted by the
“Literary Digest.”

 

MonsiEUR PIERRE DE LANux, Director of the
Paris office of the League of Nations, spoke here
Thursday night, February 8th, under the auspices
of the International Relations club. M. De Lanux is
making his fourth American lecture tour under the
sponsorship of the League of Nations Association and
was brought here through the Carnegie Endowment.

mes
wv

Prorrssor WiLLiAM L,. MAPEL, head of the Lee
School of Journalism, has received a grant from the
Oberleander Trust of Philadelphia, a branch of the
Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation, to spend the sum-
mer abroad in the study of foreign methods of Jour-
nalistic instruction in Germany.

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below.
ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

If interested in the technical side

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 19 ]

aoe On ee

MA GAZtI N a

A Tribute to Dr. Easter

E WAS like his house, gracious, mellow and
aged, with an air of timeless brooding. It
was pleasant to see him coming along the
street, leaning upon his cane, his tiny eyes twinkling
behind gold-rimmed glasses. He could be identified
far away by his white goatee and his inevitable black
hat. There was a legend about his hat. Students
said that he had bought it at the Bon Marche in Paris,
about thirty-five years ago, and certainly it was possible.

When he taught his French classes, he coined as
many puns as possible. He always quoted Charles
Lamb concerning them, that the pun is the lowest form
of wit because it is the basis of all humor. He had
a habit of repeating the same pun intentionally in
another class if the response was great enough in the
one preceding. No one minded, even if he had been
told it just outside the door ; it was a delight to see him
tilt back in his cane-bottomed chair and roll with
laughter.

His mind was like his study; infinitely rich in
material ; it seemed to have no arrangement at all, but
a second glance showed infinite care in its order. In
his study, books lay haphazardly upon tables; maga-
zines in dusty stacks tripped the unwary. On the
shelves Montaigne, Moliere, Corneille and Balzac sat
stolidly beside Muirhead’s Great Britain. Yet he al-
ways knew where everything was, and could produce
at an instant’s notice anything in the room.

He spoke and wrote an infinite number of lan-
guages, and quoted aptly from them. And it made no
difference whether his hearers could understand. How
fond he was of asking an awed French class for an
obscure derivation from the Greek! His statements
were never startling, nor were they scintillating and
epigrammatic, but when the listener pondered his words
he found therein the wisest of counsels and the choicest
wisdom. He loved Greek and its complexities; he
liked to write Greek on the blackboard for the sheer
sensuous pleasure that the sight and sound of the
exotic characters gave him. He once said that it was
the most beautiful tongue invented by man. There
stood on a table in his study a complicated typewriter
that wrote Greek and Hebrew, in addition to other
more standardized tongues. ‘There was a tale that he
corresponded in Greek with some learned friend, but
this is perhaps apocryphal.

Age so ripened him that he had forgotten to be
tart. He never scolded; he never reproved. To be
sure, he often corrected by some fable, but there was

no reference to the culprit by name. He saw, down —
the long vista of the years, the folly of anger ; disobedi-

ence only made him sad. He seemed to be measuring 1
everything against an eternal, ageless standard, and in
its light all thirigs on earth were unimportant. |

Often he went in the summers to Paris. There —
he had a tiny hotel that he liked, and his own bench in —
a nearby park. He sat here every morning, reading
Matin. Even the Frenchmen must have believed him
French; he was the American student’s idealization of —
the race. Several times he was discovered by some of —
his adventurous students as he was sitting placidly on —
his bench, basking in the sunlight. ‘They vowed that
the sight, of perfect contentment, was alone worth the —
ocean crossing.

He loved genealogy. In the hall of his house
hung a panel of his ancestors’ coat-of-arms. Justly
proud was he that his forebears had been prominent —
in colonial affairs and in the south during the struggle —
between the states. Although he was adept at hiding
it, he had a dislike for Northerners.

During his years in Paris he had acquired the —
cafe habit. Every afternoon, the weather permitting,
he walked slowly down the path from his house, —
through the University grounds, down Lee avenue to —
the post office. After examining his mail, and he al-—
ways had a stack awaiting him, he made his way slowly —
to McCrum’s, the only local substitute for his favorite —
sidewalk cafe near Notre Dame. Here he sometimes —
had coffee, sipping it slowly as he read his newspaper —
or meditating over his letters. He would dearly have —
liked to smoke a pipe with it, but his innate courtesy —
would never allow him to do so in a public place. The —
smell of smoke might annoy someone. |

It is impossible to believe him dead. The mind —
accepts it as fact; the heart does not. He seems an
integral part of the University, as much a part of it —
as the buildings and grounds themselves. It is im- —
possible to imagine someone else dwelling in his house,
someone else opening the heavy door and walking down
the path on a sunny afternoon. When he died, a bit —
more graciousness and wisdom vanished from the ~
world. But he did not die in the minds of his pupils;
until the ashes of the last of them are scattered to the
winds, he will be remembered.

C. P: Lam
Exeter College, Oxford.

(Reprinted: the courtesy of the Southern Collegian) —

[ 20 |

 

—. A mt COUN

I

Mw A Ge 24 ote OS

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Louisville

THe Loutsvit_e alumni gathered on the night of
January 19th to celebrate General Lee’s birthday with
a dinner and a regular meeting of the Louisville Alum-
ni Association. There were 49 men present and were
addressed by Dr. Howe who came especially to repre-
sent the University.

One of the features of the meeting was the sub-
scription of twenty-two men to The Alumni Magazine.

The officers elected were Mr. Arthur Tabb, presi-
dent, and Mr. Murrell “Lefty” Klein, secretary.

Henry Hill is the retiring Secretary and he was
formally thanked for his interest and enthusiasm dur-
ing the past year.

One of the guests was Mr. Milburn, principal of
the Louisville Male High Schol and three young men
interested in Washington and Lee.

Mr. J. Temple Robinson, Mr. Grier Smiley, Mr.
John E. Scott, and Mr. T. Kennedy Helm came to the
meeting and there were other men who had not been
to an Association meeting for twenty years.

Richmond

THE CELEBRATION of Washington’s birthday by
the Richmond alumni was a very important occasion
with 62 alumni present.

Governor Peery of Virginia, Lieutenant-Governor
Price of Virginia, the Mayor of Norfolk, Mr. W. R.
.. Taylor, 1911, the State Tax Commissioner, Mr. C.
H. Morrisett, 1914, and ten members of the General
Assembly, all Washington and Lee men, added to the
list of the local men who were hosts to three repre-
sentatives of the University—Dean Gilliam, 1917, Tex
Tilson, 1926, and Cy Young, 1917.

Otto Stumpf, 1918, was toastmaster and the four
speeches of the evening were given by Governor Peery,
Mayor ‘Taylor, Tex Tilson and Dean Gilliam.

Governor Peery recalled the men of Washington
and Lee in the public life and services of the State of
Virginia, expressed his estimate of their high sense of
responsibility and civic virtue, and his thanks for the
help he has already had from Washington and Lee men
expects to enjoy during his administration.
Mayor Taylor of Norfolk, made a short speech
of charm, praising the spirit of Washington and
men in the service of State and Country.

Tex Tilson spoke on athletics in general with a
broader view than his own immediate responsibility
as football coach,

and

full
lee

He said that the Varsity teams this year, since
September, had engaged in 38 contests and had lost
only 12. Seventeen colleges and universities repre-
sented this field of competition, among them, Kentucky,
West Virginia, Yale, Princeton, and Navy and of these
seventeen only three have student bodies as small as
ours, and some of them have student bodies ten times
as large.

The twenty-six larger athletic events won by the
Varsity teams this year include football, basketball,
wrestling, boxing, and swimming.

Tex summed up his analysis of this success by
giving credit to the fine spirit of the teams and the co-
operation among the teams, the faculty, the student
body and the alumni.

Frank Gilliam, as Dean of Students at Washington
and Lee, spoke of student affairs and the work of the
Dean’s office. He explained and announced the sat-
isfaction of the adminstration with the new dormitory
plan for freshmen, the freshman camp for the orienta-
tion of new students, and in general upon Washington
and Lee as a school for the development of personality,
initiative and independence.

The following men were there:

Ed G. Bailey, 719; Cy Young, ’17; Frank Gilliam,
17; Otto Stumpf, 718; George Peery, 97; W. E. Til-
son, 26; W. R. L. Taylor, *11; James H. Price, ’09;
M. J. Fulton, 91; J. R. Tucker, 02; J. Morrison
Hutcheson, 02; Charles H. Phillips, °22; Samuel A.
Anderson, Jr., "19; T. Dewey Davis, 17.

Matt Wiltshire, ‘23; P. R. Massie, 04; M. L. An-
derson, Jr., 32; J. T. Ryland, ’33; Reno R. Porter,
31; Richard L. Simpson, 92; D. H. Leake, 93; G. M.
Lapsley, 31; James T. Davis, ’27; George S. Riggs,
'22; E. P. Barrow, ’17; B. H. Turnbull, ’21; W. M.
Shaw, ’28; Joseph Sharove, ’30; T. T. Moore, ’26;
Krank Moore, 96; Carlton E. Jewett, ’21; Clyde N.
Allen, ’25; Wilbur C. Hall, 14; C. H. Morrisette, ’14;
S. E. Cowin, ’32; Joe J. Srulowitz, ’32; Stuart Sanders,
II, °31; Robert W. Cole, ’20; E. I. Bostwick, ’30; R.
W. Jordan, ’28; J. N. Williams, ’26; Jonah L. Larrick,
15; C. Leigh Riley, ’24.

Bryan Conrad, ’97; T. Russell Cather, 10; A. M.
Wash, °15; Vivian L. Page, 16; Wm. A. Wright, °13;
L.. IT. Stoneburner, Jr., 03; LeRoy Hodges, °10; D. A.
Dutrow, 05; Chas. EF. Burks, 12; L. C. Caldwell, ’09;
J. W. Eggleston, ‘06; M. Cary Johnston, ’10; Lewis
Ky. Jarrett, ’22; F. Bruce Jackson, ’27; Theron Harrell,
'24; Lewis IF. Powell, ’29; H. S. Liebert, ’23.

[ 21 |

7 oo aA. Am

Tri-State Association

THE FOLLOWING were present at the meeting of 4)

the ‘Tri-State Association on Lee’s birthday: Dr. E. W.
McCorkle, Ashland: Emmett McCorkle, Ashland;
Wendell Mann, P. P. Gibson, S. S. McNeer, W. T.
Lovins, George Keller, Joe Dingess, Lee Beuhring,
R. P. Ashbury, Melville Dunn, Joe McVay, Frank
Bailey, Judge Baer, Houston Laird, Joe Fitchett.

P. P. Gibson presided and Dr. McCorkle of Ash-
land delivered a talk on General Lee, as he knew him
at the University, and related several incidents, one
in which was related the circumstances concerning the
arrival of General Lee in Lexington (as well as Dr.
McCorkle’s personal knowledge of the dispersing of a
mob in Lexington by General Lee).

Election of officers was had and Dr. McCorkle was
unanimously elected president for the ensuing year;
S. S, McNeer, vice-president, and J. W. Fitchett, sec-
retary.
The new president appointed a committee consist-
ing of Lee Beuhring, W. T. Lovins, and Frank Bailey
to get in touch with the proper authorities at the Uni-
versity and try to secure the return of the annual bas-
ketball game between the University and the University
of West Virginia to Huntington. Also a motion was
made and unanimously passed that the president name

a committee in Huntington, and a like committee in)

Ashland and vicinity, to contact the high schools and
before the end of the school year to furnish a list of the
best male students likely to make acceptable men to
attend the University. The naming of the committee for
Ashland was left to Wendell Mann.

A motion was made and unanimously passed that
the association have four meetings a year—one to be
held on Lee’s birthday; one on Washington’s birthday ;
one in the early summer before closing of the Uni-
versity and another in the month of August, the dates
of the latter two to be decided upon by the president.

A motion was made and unanimously passed that
the secretary be instructed to communicate with the
proper authorities at the University to inquire con-
cerning loans to students from such a fund at the Uni-
versity and all facts in connection therewith.

_A Dutch lunch was served and the next meeting
of this Association will be held in Ashland on Feb-
ruary 22, 1934.

 

Ly
VV

Lee Books Needed at the Library

Books needed for the Robert E. Lee Collection at
the Washington and Lee Library. Prices can not be
given, because the books are out of print and the origi-
nal list price is no guide to their present price. No one

I

-_

Jones, John William.

MAGA Zi am

of the titles is, however, a rare book in a bibliophile
sense.
Adams, Charles Francis. The confederacy and the Trans. —
vaal. Boston, Houghton, 1901.
Adams, Charles Francis. The constitutional ethics of se. _
cession. Boston, Houghton, 1903.
Brady, Cyrus Townsend. The patriots. New York, Dodd,
1900. 4
Broun, Thomas L. The address of Major Thos. L. Broun, 4
at the memorial exercises of Camp Patton. From the —
Charleston, West Virginia, Star, June 14, 1888. Prob- —
ably reprinted in 1907.
Burdett, Samuel Swinfin. The Lee statue. . .remarks of —
5. S. Burdett. . .before the Middlesex club, Boston, —
Mass., March 24, 1910.
Childe, Edward Lee. Le general Lee; sa vie et ses cam-
pagnes. Paris, Hachette, 1874. é'
Confederate states of America. Report of General Robert —
E. Lee, of operations at Rappahannock bridge. Rich- —
mond, R. M. Smith, public printer, 1864.
Confederate states of America. Report of General Robert
E. Lee, and subordinate reports of the battle of Chan- —
cellorsville. Richmond, R. M. Smith, public printer, —
1864. ;
Confederate states of America. Reports of the operation —
of the army of northern Virginia, from June, 1862, to
December 13, 1862. 2 vols. Richmond, R. M. Smith,
1864.
Echols, John Warnock. “The man behind the gun”; an ©
address before the Historical society of Fairfax coun- |
ty, eprnsy 22, 1917. Washington, Judd & Detweiler, |
1917. q
Goetchius, Henry R. Robert Edward Lee, gentleman, —
scholar. . .an address delivered in Columbus, Georgia, —
January 19, 1900. Columbus, Ga., T. Gilbert, 1900.
Hall, Granville Davisson. lLee’s invasion of northwest —
Virginia in 1861. Chicago, Mayer and Miller, 1911.
Life and letters of Robert Edward —
Lee, soldier and man. N. Y. and Washington, Neale
pub. co., 1906. 4
Lee, Frederick George. Genealogy of the family of Lee —
of Chester, Bucks, and Oxon. London, Mitchell and —
Hughes, 1884. 4
Lee monument association. Organization of the Lee mon-
ument association. Richmond, Va., Nov. 3rd and 4th,
1870. Richmond, J. W. Randolph, 1871. 4
McGuire, Judith White (Mrs. John P. McGuire) General
Robert E. Lee, the Christian soldier. Richmond, Wood-—
house and Parham, 1873. a
Marouby, G. Robert Lee, generalissime des Etats Con-—
federes du Sud. Paris, P. Feron-Vrau, 1890.
New Orleans. Citizens. Memorial ceremonies in honor of
General Robert E. Lee. October 18, 1870. New Or- —
leans, printed at the Bulletin job office, 1870. 4
Pollard, Edward Albert. The early life, campaigns, and —
public service of Robert E. Lee. N. Y., E. B. Treat ©
and co.; New Orleans, J. H. Hummel, 1870.
Potts, Frank. The death of the Confederacy. Richmond,
Va., Privately printed for author, 1928. a
Robinson, Morgan Poitiaux. Concerning the Boyson es- |
say. Richmond, Va., 1909.
Scully, Everett Graham. The story of Robert E. Lee. —
Portland, Me., L. H. Nelson, 1905.
Speer, Emory. Lincoln, Lee, Grant. N. Y. and Washing- —
ton, The Neale pub. co., 1909. |
Stevens, Flora Ellice. Lee; an epic. Kansas City, Mo., ©
Burton pub. co., 1917. |
Wolseley, Garnet J. W., lst viscount.
chester, Press of C. Mann, 1906.

The above titles are printed in the Alumni Magazine —
for the reference of readers who may know where some O
these books are or where they may be gotten. They are
rare, rather than costly books. They may, many of them, —
be in Southern private libraries, whose owners would be —
glad to give them to Washington and Lee to complete —
and make forever permanent its Lee Collection.

General Lee. Ro--

[ 22 |

 

— - 2 im N

I

— A & A Oe Be Ue

Class Notes

1933—D. E. (“D’) Crark is in Watertown, N. Y.
and writes a most affectionate, nostalgic letter, after
hearing the broadcast on the evening of Fancy Dress
Ball.

1932—W. C. Kwnopr, Jr., is in Birmingham with the
Drennen Motor company.

1932—HERBER?T DOLLAHITE, 11, of the Park Hotel, Am-
ory, Miss., writes his usual class-letter, chuck full of
news :—Think alumni are on a marrying spree here
of late! Cliff Hemming of Meridian was married on
November 11 (imagine getting married on Armistice! )
to Miss Anne McDuffie of Texarkana, Texas. It was
the culmination of an L. S. U. romance I think. I saw
them in late November and Cliff tells me that he will
he located in Jackson after the first of the year with
The Sturges Co., Wholesale Grain Dealers and Man-
ufacturers. Gibson Witherspoon, of Meridian, was
married on November 24 to Miss Mary Ann Moore,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Dowd Moore of
Hattiesburg. They left shortly after the wedding for
the Bahamas where they landed at Nassau. The at-
tractive bride while in St. Mary-of-the-Woods and
National Park Seminary frequently visited Washing-
ton and Lee during dances.

Al Fowler, among the Carriers of the Cane in
Tucker Hall, writes me that G. W. (Bill) Musser is
studying law this year at Dickinson College, Carlisle,
Pennsylvania. Says, too, that H. W. (Cuz) Carson
is temporarily connected with the West (B. G.) Vir-
ginia legislature and will settle in Washington City.
D. EK. (De) Clarke of Watertown, N. Y. is doing news-
paper work in New York State as is J. W. A. Smith
in such a field down in New Jersey. John Teggart
from Fowler’s letter I learn is looking after his lum-
ber interests in Brownsville, Pa.

Russ Pritchard, Memphis, where he is well con-
nected with Marx & Bernsdorf, writes me concerning
some of the Memphis boys: W. Preston Battle, man-
about-town and lawyer; J. Surget Shields, lawyer in
firm of Malone, Tautenblatt & Zimmerman in Ex-
change Bldg.; J. H. (Jerry) Townshend, Jr., in the
footsteps of his father, associated in lumber industry,
office being in Bank of Commerce Bldg.; Cooper Tur-
ner, lawyer with office in Exchange Bldg., E. William
Hale, Jr., politician, Whitehaven, Tenn.; Buster Clarke
connected with the Memphis Seed Loan Office; L. P.
Brown, III., Brown & Bolton, bagging and _ ties;
Charles W. Cocke—sees him in town every now and
then but does not know his business connection; Ad-

dison Nickey, country gentleman and planter, town
house being 469 Goodwyn; David McKay, somewhere
in New York City. Jimmie Durham is connected with
Kenner & Beane, so I heard just recently.

Hon. H. G. Morison, Jr., of Morison, Morison &
Rouse, Bristol, Va., writes me that the Big Blue made
two touchdowns against the Princeton Tigers but both
of them were called back. Such is our luck! “Snorter”
also told me that he sees Preston Sale quite often.
Preston is now an Auditor for the Commonwealth of
Virginia. Did so much regret to learn of the sudden
death of Dickie Beaton in Texas the latter part of
October. His family I am sure has every word of sym-
pathy from all of us who called Dickie friend. He was
a remarkable boy and a very promising attorney. ’Tis
sad that the curtains had to be drawn on such a life
as was his. Martin P. Burks, III and “Skinny” Wil-
liams are quite busy writing a revision of “Burks’
Pleading and Practice.” John Oliver is a member of
the Virginia House of Representatives from Bedford.
Algie Speer is now married in Florida.

R. W. Reinhold, Addison-Saunders Associates,
Inc., New. York City, writes that he attended the
Princeton game along with J. F. (Hank) Jones and
Winnie Donham and there at old Nassau met Frank
Burkhart and Tom Smith. Bob said the game was great
and that the Generals made a splendid showing. Dr.
Matthew Page Andrews, 849 Park Ave., Baltimore,
Md., also writes me that the game against Princeton
was wonderful. Dr. Andrews is now serving Gov.
Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland on his Executive Com-
mittee of the Maryland Tercentenary Commission.

I made a hurried jaunt to Laurel in late Novem-
ber and while there saw Wally Beard who is now con-
nected with Gele’s Garage. Wally recently ran into a
mule and suffered a serious automobile accident. While
enroute to Laurel I had lunch with Cliff Hemming and
his bride in Meridian and learned while with them that
lamar Deal was with the R. F. C. now and doing
well. Cliff also mentioned having seen Bert Farber in
New Orleans recently. While in Laurel I lunched with
William H. Mason of ‘Masonite’ prominence and it
was great to hear him relate his days at Washington
and Lee. He mentioned Dr. Howe’s visit of several
years ago and said his stay was a most pleasant one.
Mrs. Mason told me that Cy Preston was with a branch
of the R. F. C. in West Virginia.

Hon. Ernest Kellner, Jr., Box 265, Greenville,
Miss., had the sad misfortune to lose his father in
early November. Ere I close, allow me to nominate

[ 23 ]

1 HS oe a a ee

the Rt. Rev. Bishop James Didout Winchester, 1515
Spring Street, Little Rock, Ark., and Dr. S. H. Ches-
ter, 3305 West End Avenue, Nashville, Tenn., for sub-
jects for your biographical series. Since they are the
two survivors of Lee’s Guard of Honor, I think they
should be excellent material for such an honor. Too,
think it would be very fitting to publish a list of the
twenty-one who served in the student guard.

1931—Harry Burn, Jr., former business manager of
the Ring-tum Phi, is with the Times-Dispatch in Rich-
mond, Virginia.

1931—Jimmy Crane, 3720 Northampton St., Chevy
Chase, Md., is doing newspaper work in Washington.

1931—Brv Lampert, Holly Grove, Ark., is in the cot-
ton business, is a frequent and friendly correspondent.

1931—Eppie Graves is studying law at Harvard.

1931—Frank Breapy, 58 W. Upsal St., Philadel-
phia, secretary of the local association and active.

1930—Joun B. OLIvER will be one of the younger men
in the House of Delegates. He was born in Bedford
county, which he will represent in the General As-
sembly, May 23, 1905.

The new delegate is an alumnus of Hampden-
Sydney College, at which he received his academic
training, and of Washington and Lee University, from
which he was graduated in law. This profession he
has practiced in Bedford since 1931, as a partner of
M. E. Padgett, Jr.

Mr. Oliver was nominated for the House in the
Democratic primary and was elected to the office last
November.

1930—Wittiam (MrKxe&) PAtMeEr is in the Gunter
Bldg., Room 701, San Antonio, secretary of the San
Antonio Association.

1930—ALLEN PeENICcK is in the North Carolina Bank
and Trust Co., Greensboro, N. C.

1930—Sam Rayper, Lexington, Va., is with the Rock-
bridge National Bank. Sam is treasurer of the Student
Body Campus Fund, Auditor of funds and helpful in
all campus and fraternity (Sigma Chi) interests.

1929-—THomas SuGRUE, who, since graduating from
Washington and Lee with a B.A. degree in 1929 and
an M.A. a year later, has been a reporter for the
New York Herald-Tribune, recently accepted an offer
by the American Magazine to write a series of travel
articles. On January 27, he sailed on the S. S. Europa
for a trip around the world.

Sugrue, while in Washington and Lee, was editor
of the Calyx, and wrote for The Southern Collegian.
He is co-author, with Ring Lardner, Jr., of “The
Crowning of Technocracy,” a satirical study of the

I

MAGA Ziti

subject. In the last number of the New Yorker, Sugrue’
is author of “Profile” of Patrick, Cardinal Hayes,

1928—Howarp B. Busotp, attorney at law, 319 Main
St., Orange, N. J., is getting together the alumni of
Northern New Jersey to complete a permanent or-
ganization.

1928—S. TALMAGE MAGANN writes: “On November
12, 1933, I accepted the call to the pastorate of the
Hillcrest Baptist church, 2480 West Broad street, Co-
lumbus, Ohio. We are located in one of the best res-
idential sections of the city and our opportunity for
real growth here seems to be very good. I have been
very happy to find that a number of Washington and
Lee alumni live in Columbus.

“A few of us got together to commemorate Lee’s
birthday and had a good old-fashioned session. It is
a new thing for Washington and Lee men to have an
alumni meeting in Columbus. Those who were there
were: 1931, O. J. Wilkerson; 1930, Guy E. Manning;
1913, C. C. ‘Red’ Moore; 1931, Benjamin L.
Lewis, Jr.”

1927—Jack CarTER wired congratulations on the
broadcast from Denton, Md. Prosecuting attorney
there.

1927—C. Wetts Lirrie, Hagerstown, Md., is sec-
retary of the local association, practices law, gets di-
vorces for his clients and friends.

1927—-SAMUEL RuTHERFORD HALt is in the Zoology
Dept., Syracuse University, Syracuse, N. Y.

1927—Maynarp Hor’, No. 1 Vance St., Memphis, —
president of the local association, with the Oliver- —
Finnie Co., wholesale grocers.

1926—Joun D. Maynew returns to Denver, Colo- —
rado, where he accepts his old position with the United
States Fidelity & Guaranty as State Agent for New. ;
Mexico. He has for the past three years been asso- —
ciated with the Roswell Building & Loan Association,
Roswell, New Mexico.

1925—T. H. Broapus, Decatur resident and for the —
past several years associated with the Canal Bank &
Trust Co., at New Orleans, La., is going with the new —
Park National Bank as executive vice-president, at
Knoxville, Tenn.

B.S. at Washington and Lee University, and in
the Harvard School of Business, several years of prac- —
tical business with the Federal Reserve and the years —
with the Canal Bank & Trust is the foundation of the
experience with which Mr. Broadus is equipped for
the position.
1925—Wirt1aAm H. Cruvertns of Charleston, S. C., —

has been installed as worshipful master of Pythagorean ;
Lodge No. 21, Masons.

[ 24 ]

 

T an, oe UN

1924—The Bankers’ Monthly recently published the
following notice:

JosepH E. Birnig, for the past four years assist-
ant cashier of the Morris Plan Bank of Virginia, has
been appointed executive secretary in charge of the
management of the Morris Plan Bankers’ Association.

Before becoming associated with the Morris Plan
tank of Virginia, Mr. Birnie was with the Alexander
National Bank, St. Petersburg, Florida, in charge of
the escrow department. He is an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Mr. Birnie was made an officer of the Morris
Plan Bank of Virginia in 1927, in charge of credits
and collections. Recognized as an authority on indus-
trial and amortization banking, he is a frequent con-
tributor to leading banking periodicals, and has made
a number of adresses before the National Conventions
of the American Institute of Banking.

1923—Epwarp AUwLL, 1301 South 31st St., Birming-
ham, Ala., is on the faculty of Phillips High school.

1923—Jean Extis, 1317 Biscayne Blvd., Miami, Fla.,
has helped in the re-location of 1100 “‘lost’’ alumni.
No one in his part of the country escapes. Practices
law on this famous Boulevard.

1923—A. Pirrortt is on the faculty of The Williams
School, Chelsea, Mass.

1923—Jimmikz THOMAS, 2100 Wabash avenue, Fort
Worth, Texas, represents the Jefferson Standard Life
Ins. Co., of Greensboro, N. C.

1922—Lovuir Dun tap, Pulaski Veneer Corporation,
Pulaski, Va.
1922—CHARLIE CAMPBELL,
grocery business.
1922—Harotp GARARD is at Bucknell University,
Lewisburg, Penn., college physician, M.D. from Penn.

Ky., wholesale

Irvine,

 

Charles Henry Halsey, 1922
Manager of the Mutual Adjustment and Inspection Bureau,

Mutual Insurance Bldg., Chicago

I

a £6 ag 2 N.S

1922—Apsr LuBLINER, Law and Commerce Bldg., Blue-
field, W. Va., represents his district in the State Leg-
islature.

1922—Murreuy Henry, 706 First National
Bldg., Ft. Smith, Ark., practicing medicine.

Bank

1921—Dan BLaIn practices medicine in Stockbridge,
Mass.

1921—Gray FuNKHousER teaches at Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. Y.

1921—Nor_e HENprRIX is principal of the Woodlawn
High school, Birmingham, Ala.

 

1921—Davip Jounson has offices in 1612 Bendum
Trees Bldg., Pittsburgh, Penn.

1921—Courtnry Kine practices law in Tampa, Fla.

1921—WaLTHEN KNEBELKAMP, 1441 Highland ave-
nue, Louisville, secretary of the Louisville Baseball
Club (American Association).

1920—F rank Wricut is with the Paramount Oil Co.,
Council Bluffs, Lowa.

1920—Henry Trorrer, Cotton Merchant, Monticello,
Arkansas.

1920—Bitt SpeENcER, Commonwealth’s attorney of
Campbell county, Lynchburg, Va.

1920—Joun Atvin Ro ver is with the Bristol Gas
and Electric Co., of Bristol, Tenn.

1920—Howarp McCain is with the William Hen-
gerer Department Store, Buffalo, N. Y.

1920—Frep (PENNY) Balicey, real estate business,
Huntington, W. Va.

1919—Louis A. McMurray writes from the Belgian
Congo—Mutoto, Luluabourg, November 3rd:

“My wife and I and nine-months-old son are
happily located here at Mutoto, where we teach in the
mission’s Bible School. This is one of the largest
schools of its kind in the Congo; a community of nearly
a thousand is here for instruction in religious training.
God has blessed the work wonderfully in spite of cut
budgets, and we hope and pray for better times.

“We expect to get back to America in 1934 on
furlough, and will be at Hedgesville, West Virginia,
from April, 1934, to January, 1935, after which time
we'll be back in Congo again.

‘Best luck to you and to old Washington and Lee.”

1918—A romance that has its inception in far off Ger-
many last year had its sequel January 24th at Rock-
ville, Md., when Carl FE. L. Gill, consulting economist
and former William and Mary professor of economics,
and the beautiful Baroness Eltriede von W. Poellnitz,
of Berlin, were married.

[ 25 ]

ee: a 2 2 RS

The young couple were married by the Rev. Henry
K. Pasma, pastor of the Rockville Presbyterian church.
They left for a honeymoon trip to New York.

The couple met last year when Gill was touring
Europe as a commercial attache of the Department of
Commerce on the Gold Coast, Africa. The baroness
came to this country last Thanksgiving and has been
a house guest of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander L,. Gill, 7
Thornapple street, Chevy Chase, Md., father and
mother of the bridegroom.

19]
turned 40, Senator Dickinson has enjoyed a many-
sided career.

A lawyer by profession, he was mayor of the town
of Marion for eight years, judge of the Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court of Smythe county for nine,
and secretary of the electoral board of the county for
three. He was chosen in a special election to succeed
the late Senator B. Frank Buchanan, a distinguished
figure in the life of the State and once Lieutenant-
Governor of Virginia. He will represent the district
comprising the city of Bristol and the counties of
Washington and Smythe.

Senator Dickinson attended Richmond college for
two sessions and later obtained the bachelor of laws
degree from Washington and Lee University. He is a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Phi fra-
ternities, is a Baptist, is married and has two children.

1916—Bruce F. Wooprurr and William A. Ward,
Jr., 1930, announce the formation of a partnership
for the general practice of law to be known as Wood-
ruff and Ward, with offices at suite 928 Healey build-
ing, Atlanta, Ga.

                                     

1916—Burtron S. SAnrorp of Ripley, Tenn., writes:
“Last night I renewed my youth by listening to the
broadcast from Nashville called ‘Washington and Lee
on the air’, and I very much appreciate your thought-
fulness in letting me know of this program.

“Down in this particular corner of the world one
is out of touch with life in Lexington, and | was
especially glad to have this opportunity.”

1915—Dickx Fow kes, Professional Bldg., Richmond,
Va., dermatologist.

1915—Woopson Houcuton, Southern Bldg., Wash-
ington, D. C., practices law on the University Affairs
Committee, president the Washington Alumni Asso-
ciation.

1915—Preston Jackson, 30 Church St.,
with the Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co.

New York,

1915—Jonau Larrick has charge of student activi-
ties in the Richmond Medical College.

[ 26 ]

I

Mm, eh. eo me. oe ae

  
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
    
  

1915—SipEsorrom McCorp practices law in the Neil
and Anderson Bldg., Ft. Worth, Texas.

1914—Junius B. Powe, formerly with the Guar-
anty Company of New York and for the past four
years vice-president of North American Securities
company is now associated with Spencer Trask & Co.,
of 25 Broad street, New York, members of the New
York Stock Exchange with offices in Albany, Boston, |
Chicago and London.

1913—SeEnator JoHN A. MacDOoNatp of Durant, ‘
Okla., is candidate for governor of Oklahoma.

1913—JarED Y. SANDERS, Raymond Building, Baton
Rouge, La., is the people’s popular candidate for Con-—
gressman from Louisiana, opposed to Huey Long’s
self-appointed candidate, over which much strife has
taken place.

1913—Harvey B. Apperson (Senator Apperson) will
not be a new man in the upper branch of the General
Assembly, having served through the special session
last August as the successor of R. J. Noell, resigned. —

Like many of Virginia’s public men, the Senator
is a lawyer by profession. He began practice in Mar-
ion, where he was born in 1890, but is now a member
of a prominent firm of attorneys in Roanoke. This is
his first venture in politics. 4

In the Democratic primary last year Senator Ap-
person defeated Hal C. Tyler of Radford and Raye O.
Lawson of Roanoke. His unsuccessful Republican op-
ponent in the special election was J. C. Brown. The
senatorial district he represents comprises the cities of
Roanoke and Radford and the counties of Roanoke,
Montgomery, Floyd and Franklin.

Senator Apperson, a son of the late Dr. John $.
Apperson and Mrs. Lizzie Black Apperson, who now
resides at Blacksburg, was educated in the public
schools of Marion, at the Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute and at Washington and Lee University. He is”
married and his home is on the Lee Highway, about a
mile east of Salem. |

He was formerly president of the Bar Association”
of the City of Roanoke. i

1912—LLoyp CRAIGHILL is in China at the American
Church Mission, Nanchang Kai. 1

1912—Nrxon Danie practices law at Chipley, Fla.

1912—Bos Hoop practices medicine in Clarksburg,
W. Va.

1912—Bos Ramsey, secretary of the Chamber off
Commerce, 210 Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.

1912—Jim SomervILLE is in London, England, on-
Foreign Service with the Department of Commerce, -
hears seldom from Washington and Lee friends and _

a, oe

Oe

aoe YU M@ N

wants to. Address: Office of Commercial Attache, Bush
House, London.

1911—W. R. L. Tay tor has been elected Mayor of
Norfolk. The Virginian-Pilot, in an editorial, says:

‘In unanimously electing him to the presidency of
the Council, Councilman Taylor’s colleagues voted him
a distinction which will receive city-wide approval.
What they said of him yesterday in their nominating
and seconding speeches were more than shallow com-
pliments appropriate to the occasion. They correctly
summed up Mr. Taylor’s fine contribution to the pub-
lic service.

‘Elected to the Council less than four years ago,
W. R. L. Taylor has in a comparatively short period
acquired a firm command of every detail of the city
government. The underlying theories of municipal ad-
ministration no less than its machinery has interested
him. ‘lo this complicated subject he brought the skilled
lawyer’s trained mind, a talent for clear analysis and
straight-thinking and a deeply-ingrained independence.
In these respects, as well as in his ability to discharge
the special duties devolving on the presiding officer of
the Council who is also, in virtue of that position, ex-
officio Mayor, Mr. Taylor is admirably fitted for his
enlarged role.”
1910—The New York Sun publishes a report of the
ceremonies of the new administration of the Borough
of Richmond in St. George.

The president of the Borough has in his cabinet
George W. Allison, 1910, as Commissioner of Public
Works and Herman W. Ordeman, 1909, Consulting
i ngineer.
1909—The City National Bank of Selma, Alabama,
announces through its directors, the election of Law
lamar, chairman of the board.

1909—Kerstrr W. DENMAN of Lufkin, Texas, paid a
visit in Lexington, concerning the enrollment of his son
here next fall. He renewed many old associations, ex-
pressed most warmly and generously his feeling and was
the first (and may be the largest!) contributor to the
class fund of 1909 for the year 1934.

1909—Joun Ly_e CAMPBELL, Lexington, is cashier of
the Rockbridge National Bank, member of the law firm
of Campbell and Ainsworth, active in alumni work and
all its interests.

1909—Jupcr Epwin C. Carrrey has had his appoint-
ment to another seven year term as Judge of the Circuit
Court confirmed by the Senate of New Jersey.

1908—T.. RussELt CatTueEr, Winchester, Va., is in the
Virginia General Assembly.

1908—Henry RicHarp MAHnLER, principal of the High
School, ‘Thomasville, Ga.

I

yy 4S we 2. OS ee

1908—T. McCrvum, Protective Life Ins. Co., Birming-
ham, Ala.

1908—Mac MInetrreEE, 3100 Connecticut Ave., Wash-
ington, D. C., railway supply business.

1907—Asa RicHarp Larrick, brother of Jonah, min-
ister, Plant City, Florida.

1907—Wituiz Dunn, 1049 South 32nd St., Birming-
ham, Ala., has varied interests there.

1907—Lovuis ‘T1LCHMAN STONEBURNER, JR., practices
medicine, Medical Arts Bldg., Richmond, Va.

1907—Ikr GassMAN, 1170 West Stephenson St., Free-
port, Ill., one of the largest makers of irons toys for
children in America, has a son in college, Loyal Paul, a
Junior.

1906—W ALLER Cooper, on the faculty Southwestern
University, Memphis, Tenn.

1906—Jack Eccreston, 1115 Langley Road, Norfolk,
Va., was appointed with Abe Staples, 1908, by the gov-
ernor to report to the Virginia Assembly a Liquor Con-
trol Program.

1906—Davip Pipes, Southdown Plantation, Houma,
Ia., has a son, Minor, freshman this year.
1906—Banxs Wirt is in the office of the Commis-

sioner of revenue, Lexington, Va.

1906—GrorcE CAPERTON is selling coal for the Scotia
Coal & Coke Co., Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg., Char-
leston, W. Va.

1905—Matcotm CAMPBELL, formerly of Lexington,
is now living at 415 Thornrose Ave., Staunton, Va.

1905—ALRBERT PETTYJOHN,
Virginia.

contractor, Lynchburg,

1905—Dick Strokes, Covington, Va., lawyer.

1905—Jupce JoHNn RicHarp HENRY ALEXANDER,
Leesburg, Va., has a son, a senior.

1905—Wacrer WILLIAM HARGRAVE, a physician in
the United States Navy, on the U. S. S. Columbia.

1904—Matruew THompson McCrure, Jr., Profes-
sor of Philosophy, University of Illinois, Urbana, III.

1904—Sotomon W. ScuHAEFER, 612 Exchange Nation-
al Bank Bldg., Colorado Springs, Col. Physician,
specialist in tuberculosis.

1904—Lxrroy ‘THompson, 208 North Michigan Ave.,
Roswell, New Mexico, Presbyterian minister.

1904—GrorcE Gorpon WortTHEN, Little Rock, Ark.,
executive in the private banking house of W. B.
Worthen & Co., one of the few banks in Arkansas that
came through the National Bank Holiday; Jim Penick,
1917, is cashier.

[ 27 ]

2. A Li M =

1902—EpGar SYDENSTRICKER, 49 Wall St., head of the
Milbank Memorial Fund, New York City.

1902—A. L. Burcer, 312 Boston Ave., Lynchburg,
secretary the local alumni association, principal E. C.
Glass High School.

1902—Rerv. Ropert IRANKLIN Cooper, is president
of the Mississippi Synodical College, Holly Springs,
Miss. Robert Franklin, Jr., is a Junior in college.

1902—EpMUND RANDOLPH PRESTON is in the Depart-
ment of Justice, Washington, Room 314.

1901-—Dr. R. C. Lorn, at Kenyon College, Gambier,
Ohio, registrar and member of the administrative
faculty.

1901--JoHN JAY OBERLIN, in the United States Pat-
ent Office, Division 40, Washington.

1901—TrmpLeton Apatr, Mt. Hope, W. Va., prac-
ticing physician.

1900—Dr. WILLIAM PINKERTON Ort, professor of
Mathematics, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala.

1900—Pror. A. H. THRocKMOoRTON teaches law at
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.

1900—Mayor CHARLES SmitH CArFFrey, U. S. Army,
of the Adjutant General’s Office, Washington, recently
inspected V. M. I. for the War Department.

1899-—-Gustav BrENz Capito practices medicine in
Charleston, W. Va., 1605 Virginia Street, has as good
a record as subscriber to the Alumni Magazine as any-
body. And reads it.

1899—Dr. SamurEt CoLviLLE Linp, Director of the
Department of Chemistry, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis.

1898-—Dr. RANbOoLPH TUCKER SHIELDs, professor in
the Shantung University, Tsinan, China. (Medical
missionary. )

1898—JameEs CALDWELL Burnett, formerly U. 5S.
Naval Air Station, Hampton Roads, Va., now Chief
Yeoman, Navy Department, Washington.

1898—Dr. Ropert Lee Mitver, Edgehill Sanitorium,
Knoxville, office 802-3 Hamilton National Bank Bldg.
1897—Tromas Henry Wess, with the State Road
Commission, Austin, Texas.

1897—Leroy Carr Barrett, Professor of Latin,

Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., a famous scholar in
ancient language research and translations.

1897—Wn. Brown Morrison, president the Okla-
homa Presbyterian College for Girls, Durant, Okla.

1897—-Henry WINBOURNE MAGRUDER DRAKE, Port
Gibson, Miss., father of the two boys in Washington

[ 28 |

I

   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
    
    

MA 6G A Zang

and [ee with the longest and most distinguished list of
Washington and Lee family connections. .

1896—CABELL TuTWILER, West Conshohocken, Penn.,
industrial chemist, president of the Cooper Creek
Chemical Co.
1896—CHARLES SAMUEL Dick, practicing law in Lew-
isburg, W. Va.
1896—BiL_t Apair, Lexington, Va., has been County |
Treasurer for years.

1895—Joun PALMER WALKER, assistant superintend-—
ent of Surveys, District No. 7, General Land Office,
Boise, Idaho, has sent a subscription to the Magazine
from a long way off.

1895—FRANK MEzICk is a minister at Arrington, Va.

1894—HeEnry M. Mitey, photographer, Lexington,
Va., one of the earliest experimenters in color photog-
raphy and one of those who has helped perfect its
processes, would know the faces and remember as
many alumni as any man living. His most famous
subject for color photography is Peale’s portrait of
General Washington in Lee chapel. These early prints
are now scarce and highly valued and highly priced.

1893—ANpREW HENRY Woops, professor, University
of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.

1893—Horace M. Barrett, with the American Bolt—
Co., Birmingham, Ala.

1892—Epwin LutHer GREEN, professor of Greek,
University of South Carolina, Columbia.

1892—Matco_m Bruce, Master of Berry Hill, South
Boston, Va., whose sister is the Mistress of Westover
on the Lower James.

1892—Witi1am GoopLork WiccLEswortH from Cyn-
thiana, Kentucky, has a son in the sophomore class.

1891—FrankK NEtson, Manager of the Chattanooga
Clearing House, 823 James Bldg., has helped greatly in
the relocation of many “lost alumni’, contributing to
the 110 and more, recently found.

1891—Joun ‘T'Hompson Barnts, Collector of Internal
Revenue, Richmond, Va.

1890—Davip Bett MacGowan is in the consular ser-_
vice, 6 Englische Anglage, Berne, Switzerland.

1890—Cuarey (Ties) Wooren, in the cotton busi-
ness, Helena Ark., formerly Mayor of Helena. q

1890—JosEpH TurPIN DRAKE, of Port Gibson, Miss.,
has a son J. T., Jr., who is a sophomore here and be-
longs to the Drake tradition in this place.

1890—Wmn. HeErBert WINFREE is with the Puget
Sound Title Ins. Co., 3rd & Columbia Sts., Seattle,
Washington.

. 2 — oe €6UWN

1889—JupcE LYMAN CHALKLEy, professor of law at
University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.
1889-—FRANK NIGHSWONGER, is Mayor of Wichita,
Kansas.

1888—Dr. Josepn H. GorreEvi is on the faculty of
Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N. C.
1888—Lancetor Minor Harris is professor in the
University of Charleston, Charleston, S. C.

1888—FRraNK DEAN CoE is gentleman farmer in Rock-
bridge, a golf enthusiast.

1887—WILLIAM PAXTON is in the real estate business
in Buena Vista, Va.

1886—SamvuEL S. GUERRANT is one of the leading
apple-growers in Virginia. He gave up the active prac-
tice of medicine several years ago
to devote his time to horticulture,
but he occasionally does a little
charity practice among the poor
people in his neighborhood of Cal-
laway, Virginia. Dr. Guerrant stud-
ied medicine at the University of
‘dinburgh following his days at
Washington and Lee and Columbia,
and upon his return to this country he took up his
practice at Roanoke, Virginia.

He started to plant apple trees on his farm as a
hobby, but about thirty years ago he began to develop
orchards to the point where in a good year he ships
to market 20,000 barrels of high class apples. In 1910
and 1911, Dr. Guerrant was president of the Virginia
State Horticultural Society and for six years he served
as vice-president of the organization. Last year he re-
ceived a “Certificate of Merit’ from the Virginia
Farmers’ Institute for the distinguished service he has
rendered Virginia agriculture.

Dr. Guerrant practically was a pioneer in or-
charding in the Callaway district. He built a school on
his farm for the benefit of his children and the people
who were employed by him and has taken an active
interest in the question of road building as a means
of giving his community access to markets. He is a
brother of the late John R. Guerrant, 1886, and father
of Samuel S. Guerrant, 1923.

Dr. Guerrant in sending in his new subscription
to the Alumni Magazine writes interesting remem-
brances of his days at Washington and Lee that will
find a sentimental response in those of his contem-

 

poraries.

“Fifty years ago this winter I was walking the
halls of Washington and Lee. Some changes since then.
Our memory fails us for recent events, but some of the
events of college life of half a century ago are clear in

I

» 4 & ee 2 2 oe oe

our minds. Old Jim (Prof. White) with his Greek
verbs and pompous manner and the definition he gave
of a buzzard—The bird that sails aloft through hea-
ven’s aerial depths and sniffs from afar the odor of
defunct animal matter.’ Old Nick (Prof. Harris), who
was always calling on us to divide Gaul into three
parts and had us struggling over hexameters while
singing of the man who came to Troy. He had a great
way of leaning back in his chair, twisting one leg
around the other, and while chewing tobacco trying to
expectorate into the stove situated some distance across
the room. Old Alex (Prof. Nelson), who was presi-
dent of the bank and had the reputation of dismissing
the class when a student dropped a nickel and then
strolled over where he could put his foot on it. I will
always remember Old Hatchet (Prof. Harrison), who
gave me one less than was required to pass his French
class. Harry Campbell is the only one at Washington
and lee who was there in my day. There were only
about 130 students—but suppose we might say quality
made up for quantity. My brother John S. Guerrant
was with me—he passed on three years ago while liv-

ing in Salt Lake City. Much water has passed under
the bridge since those days and Washington and Lee

has turned out thousands of useful and well-trained
citizens and may she continue to do so for years to
come is the wish of an old alumnus.”

1886—BrENJAMIN F. S eEpp, professor of English,
Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N. C.

1886—Howarp CAMPBELL, hardware business, Lew-
isburg, W. Va.

18S85—Duncan CrLincu HEywarp, Collector of In-
ternal Revenue, Columbia, S. C.

1884—Witiiam McF Appin ALEXANDER is now living
at 2328 Coliseum, New Orleans, La.

1883—Joun TurNER IRELAND of Paris, Ky., has a
grandson in college, John Macey and Mr. Ireland is
spending the winter in New Orleans. His visit to
Lexington where his daughter is now living, was very
much enjoyed.

1882—Wn. WHITE Sprout, of Middlebrook, Va., has
a son in college, Archibald, III, a freshman.
1881—HErRBERT Rusu PrEsTON, in Baltimore, is at-
torney for the B. & O. railroad.

1881—C. Trent SEEBERT is a farmer of Rockbridge
County, receives mail R. F. D., Lexington.
1I880—GrorcE Fatson, ‘Faisonia,”’ farmer, Shaw,

Mississippi, had two sons at Washington and Lee,

class of 1917.
1879—Joun M. GLENN, | Lexington Ave., New York,
retired as director of the Russell Sage Foundation.

[ 29 |

eR: Oe A & UY uM

1879—Grorcr A. Sykes, Marietta, Ga., see special
article on the “Sykes Curved Ball,” page 4.

1878—Dr. WILLIAM SPENSER (JINGLE) CURRELL,
President Emeritus of the University of South Caro-
lina, Columbia, still teaches an English class.

1877—Rosert |L,. Owen, former senator from Okla-
homa, is in the Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

1876—LAwRENCE M. HENsEL, leaving Washington
and Lee University in 1876, returned to Mercersburg
College, Pa., took a post-graduate course. Later at-
tended medical lectures and received degree of M.D.
Appointed United States Physician and Surgeon in
1885. Later appointed Medical Missionary.

Later opened office in Omaha City. Returned to
Pacific coast and employed by Southern Pacific Rail-
road company. Later Surgeon for Western Pacific
Railway company. Was called to Oakland, California
by Board of Health to assist in fighting influenza.
Later engaged by the Red Cross.

He was a college mate of Woodrow Wilson, join-
ed Stonewall Jackson’s lodge of I. O. O. F. in Lex-
ington, Virginia, and Masonic Order later in Har-
risonburg, Virginia. His wife was a teacher of twenty-
five years’ experience. Was Postmaster at Portola while
he took care of the railroad men.

Now, at nearly 82 years of age, in retirement and
alone enjoying a fairly good state of health and comfort.

He is studying Spanish a little, to “sort’a’”’ keep
the brain cells alive.

For any further information, Dr. Hensel can be
reached at 301 32nd & Nevin Avenue, Richmond, Cal-
ifornia.
1875—Irpy Boyp lives at 1915 Oliver St., Memphis.
He had several sons at Washington and Lee.

1869—Joun F. Swayne, 503 East First St., Fort
Worth, Texas, was at Washington and Lee in 1867,
1868, and 1869. A friend writes of him: “He is a
remarkable man in many respects; he is 84 years of
age, is a man of keen mental faculties, and is unus-
ually well preserved. His most prized possession is
the original of a permit in the handwriting of Generai
Lee allowing him a leave of absence from school. Mr.
Swayne is doubtless one of the few remaining mem-
bers of his class.” |
1868—It has never been established, either by research
or authority, who among several silent and modest
alumni, is the oldest living man whose academic ties
and memories still encompass the last years of General
Lee’s presidency. |

Perhaps Dr. Ezra Z. Derr of Frederick, Maryland,
of the class of 1868 has this honor above others. He
was 83 on the 12th of last January. Last summer

Co

I

  
  
    
  
   
      
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
    
  
    
   
  
  
   

mM. A. Go A 2 oe

he submitted for consideration of the Academy for
Advancement of Science in Washington a paper on his
original theory of the course of the planets around the
sun and moon around the earth. Dr. Derr calls this
theory the spiral theory as distinguished from the ellip-
tical theory which has been accepted for three centuries.
The motion that the earth travels around the sun in an
elliptical orbit was first advanced in 1610 by Jo 1
Kepler, Dr. Derr said, but at that time the sun
thought to be stationary. d
“It is now universally accepted as an established
fact,”” Dr. Derr declared, “that the sun is moving rapid.
ly through space. There is nothing static in the Uni-
verse. Everything is in motion.” In order to keer
up with the sun in its rapid flight, the earth must of
necessity travel in an “open curve,” instead of an ellipse
or “‘closed curve,” the Frederick county scholar pointec
out to the Smithsonian head. |
Dr. Derr says that the sun makes a journey o
about 315,360,000 miles each year. ‘To do this it ne
gotiates a speed of about ten miles per second. ‘Te
keep in the race, the earth travels at the rate of abou
twenty miles per second.
While at the Smithsonian, Dr. Derr presented
model demonstrating the spiral theory.
Dr. Derr, author of two books, Evolution versu.
Involution and The Uncaused Being, was recentl
elected to membership in the national honorary societ:
of Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee Universi

1868—Tnr Hon. Henry T. WicknAm is preservir
the Richmond battlefields.

Among the most important bills submitted at th
1934 general assembly of Virginia is the bill of whic
Senator Henry T. Wickham, of Hanover, is patror
and John J. Wicker, Jr., of Richmond, and Hunte
Miller, of Bedford, co-patrons. This bill has beet
unanimously reported out from the senate general lay
committee.

The measure, when passed by both houses and be
comes a law, empowers the state commission on con
servation and development to convey by deed to th
federal government the area known as the Richmon
battlefield park, consisting of some seven hundred acre
embracing the main battlefields and trenches aroune
Richmond, where the heaviest fighting was had in de-
fense of the Southern capital. At the present time the
National park service, which is under the direction 01
the department of interior, is landscaping and terrae
ing the entire area and when finished it will be one 0
the most beautiful spots in America. The trenches 1
this area are the best preserved of any trenches of
Civil War, and this transfer will complete the chai
of national military parks, which embraces Manassas
Fredericksburg, Petersburg and Chancellorsville.

Abit

7
MI
“a

T oe oe Boom N

I

>, Se . Sak ae ea te es. es

 

The federal government will bear all expenses of
maintaining and beautifying the area and the work
will be done under the direction of Dr. H. J. Ecken-
rode, director of the division of history of the state
commission on conservation and development.

Senator Wickham is the only man who studied
under General Lee at Washington College still in pub-
lic life in Virginia. He professed to fellow members
of the Virginia senate during exercises commemorat-
ing the birthday anniversary of the Southland’s hero
that the present generation cannot appreciate the pro-
found influence Lee exerted on the students of his day.

This great admirer and old friend of Lee is 84.
He entered Washington college at about the same time
that Lee took over the duties of president, and re-
mained here until 1868.

‘General Lee was venerated by Washington col-
lege students,’ Senator Wickham related. ““He was our
father. We worshipped the ground he walked on.”

Senator Wickham’s message to the senate was met
with an ovation of respect and veneration. Wickham
spoke further as follows:

“Viscount Wolseley and General Maurice spoke
of Lee as the ‘greatest soldier the English-speaking
people have produced.’ We revere his character, his
lovable qualities, his soldierly bearing. At the battle of
Chancellorsville Lee rode at the head of his charging
troops. He was no rear-guard commander.

“Tong before the war, as a child, I was taken to
Arlington twice. I remembered General Lee, then a

 

McCRUM’S

Where Everybody Meets to Enjoy

Ten Flavors of Delicious Ice-Cream

Tasty Sandwiches and

SCHLITZ ON. tea?

—‘'Fountain Service Unexcelled’’—

 

 

 

colonel, let me ride a pony he brought back from the
Maxican campaign. General Lee often visited our home
and spent nights there, en route to Arlington.

“There is a legend in the Lee family that each
generation produced a Lee of saintly character. Robert
Kdward Lee, son of General Lighthorse Harry Lee,
was the saint of his generation, and his daughter, Ag-
nes, was the saint of her generation. General Lee’s de-
votion and tenderness to his wife, who was a hopeless
cripple, stirred the hearts of men and women.”

1867--Joun FI. PonprEr of 270 South Alexandria Ave-
nue, Los Angeles, Calif., may be the oldest living alum-
nus. This honor has never been definitely established.
He writes:

“My dear Mr. Young:

“Your highly appreciatel letter of December 5th
not only gave me pleasure at hearing again from my
beloved Alma Mater, but also was in the nature of a
birthday greeting, as it arrived on my 86th birthday,
December 9th. Your letter brought mingled emotions
of pleasure and sorrow—pleasure in recalling the many
happy hours that I spent with my fellow students, and
sorrow in learning that all my classmates have depart-
ed to that bourne from which no traveller returns.

“With what affection I remember my room-mates,
—gentle, kindly John and Henry Cromlin from Mont-
gomery, and jovial, handsome John C. Mines, my bed-
fellow, from Louisville, Kentucky. The Van Meters,
sreckenridges, Cooks, McCreary. What fun we all

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL

Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid... .__. $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid... 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........ 1.50
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

[ 31 ]

a) is B A LD Mea

had playing “Corks” at the gathering place opposite
the Lexington hotel.

“When Washington and Lee University is men-
tioned, one of the first pictures which arises in the
mind of a ‘Lee Boy’ is that of General Lee, mounted
on Traveler riding south on Main street, past the Pres-
byterian church, toward the grave of his dear friend,
Thomas J. Jackson, known to history as ‘Stonewall’
Jackson.

“My daughter has a small picture of General Jack-
son on a bottle of perfume sent her when a tiny girl—
along with a little work basket—sent her by Mrs. Jack-
son, shortly before she died—who was a friend of my
two sisters, although Mrs. Jackson was much older
than they. Susie also has a letter written to her by Miss
Mildred Lee, from Geneva, Switzerland. Unfortunate-
ly the picture of General Lee, autographed by him—
which was given me at college, was purloined by some-
one unknown to me. I have never seen any other pic-
ture which did him justice.

“As my wife is ill at the present time, I find it

I

N &

———

M ih  GeaxrBis

difficult to collect my thoughts, but in response to your
request, and if you would be interested, I might at
some future date write you a few of my experiences
from the time when I first saw the light of day—or if
you are interested chiefly in my life at Washington
and Lee, I have already sent a few remarks which were
included in a book, ‘General Lee After Appomattox.’

‘As a member of the ‘Guard of Honor’ | attend-
ed the inauguration of Jefferson Davis in Montgom-
ery, Alabama, when he became President of the Con-
federacy, and I understand that I am the sole sur-
vivor of those present upon that memorable occasion—
and then later I have had the privilege of being with
General Lee at Washington and Lee—how far away
in years—but how close in memory—those historic
events!

“Thanking you for your kind letter—for it gave
me so much pleasure to hear from dear Washington
and Lee, and extending my best wishes always for its
continued success. Cordially yours,

“JoHN F. PONDER.”

 

eee
In Memoriam

1916
ARMOND CAstTRO LOPEZ
on January Oth.

of New York City,

1912
CHARLES Ropert Baivey, in Asheville, N. C., on
February 14th.
1912
Arcu S. Wuire, 40, died Saturday, February 17,
in Suburban General Hospital, Pittsburgh, Penn. Fun-
eral services were at his home. Mr. White was a na-
tive of Lexington, Va. He was a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee University, class of 1912, and a mem-
ber of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

1896

Francis GASTON HEREFORD, real estate operator,
died at his home, 73 Euclid avenue, west, Wednesday
night, February 7th. Mr. Hereford, who was 60 years
old, was born in Union, W. Va. He was a graduate
of the law school of Washington and Lee University,
and had also attended West Virginia Military Acad-
emy. He came to Detroit in 1913 and entered the real
estate business. He was also connected with the Drake
Publishing company. Mr. Hereford retired seven years
ago because of poor health. He leaves his wife, a sis-
ter, Mrs. R. B. Stoddard, of Baltimore. Mr. Hereford
was a son of the late Senator Frank Hereford, of West

Virginia.

1886
THe Rev. Wittiam McCLaANNAHAN W8HITE,
D.D., 1886, member of the University Board of Trus-
tees since 1915 and second in seniority only to the
Rector, died at his home in Raleigh, N. C., Thursday,
February 22. He was 67 years of age.

Dr. White, who for the past twenty-five years has
been pastor of the First Presbyterian church in Raleigh,
attended the meeting of the trustees held here on Jan-
uary 19, and presided in absence of the Rector, Mr.
George Walker St. Clair.

Dr. White, an alumnus of the University, was in-
tensely interested in the welfare of Washington and
Lee. He never missed a meeting of the board unless
detained by illness, which was rarely the case. His
father and his son, who survive him, are also alumni
of the University.

Dr. White was in attendance at Washington and
Lee from 1884 to 1886. After leaving here he pre-
pared for the ministry at the Union Tehological Semi-
nary. In his early ministry he served churches in Lew-
isburg, W. Va., Richmond, Va., and Petersburg, Va-

He was the son of the Rev. Henry M. White, and
was born in Winchester, Va., on June 20, 1867. His
grandfather was pastor of the Presbyterian church in
Lexington before and during the Civil war. His father
was also chaplain in the Confederate army.

[ 32 ]

 

 

Addresses Wanted

THE MEN listed below are temporarily lost on the
Washington and Lee Alumni records. ‘Through
changing residences, we have been unable to trace
their present location.

All, into whose hands this list falls, are asked to
look through the classes of those years they were in
college and if any of these addresses are known or can
be got or the name of someone given who would know,
they are very kindly asked to send this information, or
help in tracing, to the alumni office. The cities given
are our last addresses.

H. K. (Cy) Youne, Secretary,
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

1932 Glenn Stuart Givens, St. Louis, Mo.
Hal Wyman Hogue, Akron, Ohio.

1931 James Vincent Cherry, III, Newark, N. J.
John Collins Heuer, Indianapolis, Ind.

1930 James Martin Foster, New York City, N. Y.
Charles Davis Hodges, South Boston, Va.

Joseph Edward Jaffee, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Leonard Lewis Rupert, Tampa, Fla.

Stanley Daum Waxberg, New York City, N. Y.

1929 Kred Julius Bashwitz, New York City,
Rankin Chambers, Berkeley, California.
Llloyd Robert Foster, Cleveland, Ohio.
Richard Walker Hendrix, Camp Hugle, Ala.
Leonard William Jacobs, Norfolk, Va.
Ernest Scott Langley, New York City, N. Y.
Herman Littman, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Clayton Reeves Lowe, Crowley, La.

Burton Purlee Porter, Washington, BY; ies
Kobert Dwight Reynolds, New York City, N. Y.
Melford James Rush, Detroit, Mich.

Robert Emmett W elsh, Jr., Brooklyn, N. Y.

1928 Harvey G. Beall, Baltimore, Md.
Harold E. Francis, Washington, ia. . ae

Paul T. Gallup, Denver, Colo.

Robert L.. Hearne, Buffalo, N. Y.

George L. Hester, Baltimore, Md.

Virginius V. A. Holloman, New York City, N. Y.
John Mel. Jackson, Washington, D. C.

John W. Minton, Jr., McNary, Ariz.

Jack B. Shaffer, Evansville, IIl.

John E. Taylor, Memphis, Tenn.

William E. Vanderbilt, Binghampton, N. Y.
Mont S. Williams, Birmingham, Ala.

Y
A

1927 Frank Carter Adams, Birmingham, Ala.
Alfred Bailey, Jacksonville, Fla.

Norris Young Brown, Spartansburg, S. C.
Welbourn Myers Brown, Spartansburg, S. C.
Hugh William Dick, Pennington Gap, Va.
William Eugene Dulin, Tacoma Park, D. C.
!.oomis Benton Ferguson, ‘Tulsa, Okla.

John Wilson Flournoy, New York City, N. Y.
Schuyler Harris Floyd, Birmingham, Ala.
Sidney Wiltmer Godwyn, Maitland, Fla.
Burleigh Washington Hamilton, Allegheny, Va.
Kugene George Hassman, Oklahoma City, Okla.
W. N. Holloway, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Harold Herbert Howard, Richmond, Va.
William MacDonough, New York City, N. Y.
Robert H. Norcum, Columbia, S. C.

Wiison A. Orr, Springfield, Il.
Jacob Stanley Schmeltzer, Orlando, Fla.

1926 Richard E. Cotton, Miami, Fla.

Julius Covington, Atlanta, Ga.

Wayne Leroy Keeley, Franklin, Penn.

Hipp Cong Lum, Canton, China.

Dr. John William Miller, Jr., Pittsburgh, Penn.
William Franklin Mills, New York City, N. Y.
Paul Edward Myers, Birmingham, Ala.

Harry Hoffman Newberry, Brooklyn, N. Y.
John Andrew Simmons, Jr., Miami, Fla.
Raleigh Vernon Thompson, Wilson, N. C.
William Lowry White, Atlanta, Ga.

George B. Wilkinson, New York City, N. Y.
W. B. Williamson, El] Paso, Texas.

1925 A. B. Carruthers, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.
Charles Hector De Zevallos, New York City, N. Y.
Charles Augustus Dunlap, Tonkawa, Okla.
Telfair Hendon, Demopolis, Ala.

George C. Houchins, Jr., Pineville, West Va.
C. Lane Howard, New York City, N. Y.

John Naber, New Orleans, La.

Oliver Harold Reynolds, Biltmore, N. C.
Edward E. Smith, Orlando, Fla.

Lee Princeton Southern, Lexington, Ky.
Benjamin Franklin Ward, Memphis, Tenn.
Edwin Whatley, Hopewell, Va.

1924 John H. Alcamo, Irvington, N. J.

Carlos Rafael Collejos, Tegucegalpa, Honduras
Raymond Wilcox Edwards, Newport News, Va.
Jacob Goldberg, Norfolk, Va.

Sam Goodman, Norfolk, Va.

Walter G. Lambert, Yukon, West Va.

Edward Hughes Ludington, New York City, N. Y.
William Dennis Meadows, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.
William Mei, Decatur, Il.

William Dorsey Parker, Houston, Texas.
Harold Perlman, New York City, N. Y.

Everett Lee Phillips, Jodie, West Va.

Robert Erwin Schorn, Charlotte, N. C.

Thomas Hays Simpson, Tulsa, Okla.

Charles Laurence Stainbeck, Jr., Mobile, Ala.
Irwin William Stolz, Atlanta, Ga.

Louis Harry Towbes, Beltsville, Md.

Jerry Parker Turner, Mobile, Ala.

James Britton Waring, Gallup, New Mexico.
William Gillette Wells, Detroit, Mich.

1923 Allie Raymond Bennett, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Clarence Caloway Dean, Washington, D. C.

Gilbert Stockton Earp, Norfolk, Va.

Robert Alexander Gasten, Danville, Va.

Phillip Glass, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Charles Findley Gore, Man, West Va.

Joseph Bernard Gould, Norfolk, Va.

Joseph Hellen, Jr., Houston, Texas.

I’ lmer Sargent Hunter, Jacksonville, Fla.

Harry George Longshore, Louisville, Ky.

William Kennedy Manning, Dallas, Texas.

Max Ernest Morrison, Atlanta, Ga.

Sidney Hal Price, Williamson, West Va.

William Marshall Sheppard, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Krnest Louis Smith, Washington, D. C.

Andrew Jackson Tingler, Culpeper, Va.

David Charles Te Tseng, Philadelphia, Penn.

1922 Eugene W. Alexander, Memphis, Tenn.
C. E. Burke, Petersburg, Va.

Holt Wilson Butt, Baltimore, Md.

Carl E. Crockett, Oxley, West Va.

Gilbert Lanier Dubber, South Mayfield, Ky.
William Thomas Ireeman, Jr., Leland, Miss.
Charles Henry Halsey, Chicago, III.
Kimbriel Hampton Marley, Memphis, Tenn.
Vincenzo Messina, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Robert Erving Mopsikoy, Petersburg, Va.

Rufus Melvin Overlander, Jr., Hartford, Conn.
Malcom Andrew Patterson, Montgomery, Ala.

Prosper Whitney Peden, Houston, Texas.
Watkins Leigh Richardson, Dallas, Texas.
Audrey Ashner Scott, Mobile, Ala.
Joseph Pearson Turner, Mobile, Ala.
Richard Hasten Watkins, Richmond, Va.

1921 Floyd Jennings Baker, Baltimore, Md.

Dashwood Tudor Bold, Columbus, Ohio.
Ragan Terrell Collins, {1 Dorado, Texas.
Douglas T. Cowart, Houston, Texas.
Thayer Douglas, Charleston, West Va.
George Edgar Gilmore, Houston, Texas.

William Barbee Glascock, Kansas City, Mo.

Walter Moss Gray, Greensboro, N. C.
James Kinchloe, Washington, D. C.
John Warner Leigh, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.

William Travis McGowin, Jr., Kimbrough, Ala.

William Chandler Pierce, Atlanta, Ga.
Ulysses Shomaker Pierson, Lexington, Ky.
Austin Blackwood Taylor, Shreveport, La.
Joseph Sidney ‘Tompkins, Lexington, Va.
George Allen Wooten, Atlanta, Ga.

1920 Philip Jukes Bucher, Newport News, Va.

Tao Hung Chang, Washington, D. C.
Major Livingston Ferris, Melena, N. J.

Lon S. Garrett, Fort Worth, Texas.
George Dana Herold, Muddlety, West Va.
Guy Farmer Horton, Shreveport, La.
Hugh Comer Howell, Atlanta, Ga.

Arthur Gillis McLane, Pensacola, Fla.

Kenneth Dougal McMillan, New York City, N. Y.
George Edwards McReynolds, Hopkinsville, Ky.

Allen Milton Murphy, Portsmouth, Va.
George Newman, Abbeville, Ala.
William Sanford Pearsons, Habana, Cuba.

Martin Johnson Suydam, New York City, N. Y.

Ronald Ogg Walker, Norfolk, Va.

1919 James Marshall Jennings, Akron, Ohio.

Alan Edward Ricker, Boston, Mass.

Frank Rolston, Washington, D. C.

Myer Singer, Jacksonville, Fla.

Edward Bertram Windisch, Ft. Pierce, Fla.

1918 Witt Fox, Nashville, Tenn.
Fred Gray Gibson, Charleston, West Va.
Ralph Arthur Goldburg, Madison, Fla.

Clifford Boyd Hartley, New York City, N. Y.

Eiji Oshima, Tokyo, Japan.

Walter W. Preston, Norfolk, Va.

Norman $. Ricker, Swampscott, Mass.
Emerson Vance Smith, Toledo, Ohio.
Blake Tyler, Norfolk, Va.

James Wilson Whitelow, Memphis, Tenn.
J. Fulton Woods, Morgantown, West Va.

1917 Henry Venable Bell, Washington, D. C.
Laurence Walker Brown, New York City, N. Y.

Stanley Wilson Duncan, Glendale, Calif.
Edmond Frederick Fisher, Hoboken, N. J.

John Loui sFurner, Kansas City, Mo.
Richard Alexander Kelly, Danville, Va.
Joseph Daniel Knight, Little Rock, Ark.
Richard Leon Lile, Hamilton, Nevada.
Walter Hillman Riley, Charlotte, N. C.
Cofer Cecil Saunders, Ivor, Va.

Edmund F. Sullivan, Louisville, Ky.
Willis Bayard Wright, Germantown, Penn.
John Henry Young, Washington, D. C.

1916 George Call Johnson, Atlanta, Ga.

Yen Chu Lee, Fu Chow, Kiang $i, China.
George Harold Lowitz, Chicago, III.

Lawrence Lachlan MacKinnon, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
Clyde Homer Miller, Marietta, Ohio.

Julian Graham Patton, Minneapolis, Minn.
Joseph Crawford Rivers, Syracuse, N. Y.
Laurence Edward Sadler, Roanoke, Va.

Frank Oscar Steele, Washington, D. C.

W. Woods White, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.

1915 Claude Augustus Hastings, Winchester, Mass.
William Hugh Jennings, Dawson, New Mexico.
Morgan Mathias Keaton, Sacramento, Calif.

Augus Gillis McKinnon, De Funiak Springs, Fla.
John Noburn Martin, Paducah, Texas.

Samuel George Neuberger, Jr., Birmingham, Ala.
Donald David Ott, Washington, D. C.

Taz Hung Tang, Canton, China.

Malcolm Firor Trimble, Muskogee, Okla.

Frank Anthony ‘Troiana, Philadelphia, Penn.

1914 Ralph Lewis Bragg (Breezy), Shreveport, La. —
Percy A. Calkins, Goode, Va. ;
Russell Lee Craft, Ronaoke, Va.

Egbert Bogue Daggett, Philadelphia, Penn.
Leo Jacob Hart, Charleston, West Va.
Frank Lee McCoy, Jr., Paris, France.
Sharman Owsley, Dallas, Texas.

Merriman Starkey Smith, Paducah, Texas.
Russell Bradford Tarleton, Hopewell, Va.

1913 Orville Clifton Bell, Tampa, Fla.

Kenneth R. Cobb, Jr., Washington, D. C.

John Davis Foltz, Harrisonburg, Va.

Prof. Yom Tong Kwok, Canton, Chia.

Raphael Angelo Scotti, Tampa, Fla.

William Clarence Wade, U. S. Navy, Mare Island, Cal.
Ollie Porterfield Withrow, Washington, D. C.

1912 Alexander S. Auerbach, Savran, Russia.
Norman Deloss Belgin, Elkins, West Va.
Dennis Joseph Broughal, Cleveland, Ohio.
Walter Reese Browder, Montgomery, Ala.
Walter Roscoe Burnett, Kingsport, Tenn.
James Franklin Clemmons, Jr., English, Ark.
Walter Ellis Denny, New Orleans, La.
William Thompson Dye, Wharncliffe, West Va.
William A. Erwin, Knappa, Oregon.

Elmo Deal French, Galveston, Texas.

William Lynch Gibson, Baltimore, Md.

Alfred S. Hamilton, Jr., New York City.
Orrville Tyler Henry, Washington, D. C.
Walter Lee Hood, Radford, Va.

George Westlake Hopper, Jr., Nashville, Tenn.
Ira Lemon, Atlanta, Ga.

Hilton Welborn Long, Lexington, Ky.

Edwin Alexander McCluer, Greenville, S. C.
Russell Horace Mechlin, Newport, R. I.

Joseph Nicholson, Norfolk, Va.

 

 

 

 

Claude Madison Ray, Washington, D. C.
Pinckney Clark Smith, Birmingham, Ala.
Robert Edward Steele, Jr., Portsmouth, Va.
Daniel Benjamin Straley, Crown Point, Ind.
Thomas Wilmot Varnon, New York City, N. Y.
Charles William Wright, Alexandria, Va.

1911 Oscar Henry Herring, Greensboro, N. C.
Arthur Edward Moulton, Washington, D. C.
Charles Albert Nolan, Richmond, Va.

Ernesto Apolonio Paredes, Juarez, Mexico.

Jesse Graves Porter, West Lafayette, Ind.
Earle Hartley Rorabeck, Winnepeg, Canada.
William Alfred Smith, Birmingham, Ala.
Douglas Goode Tinsley, Birmingham, Ala.
Robert Lee Whitehead, Jr., Clarksburg, West Va.
Henry Lewis Wilkins, Jr., Cresfield, Va.
James Houston Willis, Birmingham, Ala.

1910 Charles L.. Cranford, Memphis, Tenn.
Henry Lawrence Garrett, Norfolk, Va.
Clarence Solomon Hogan, Washington, D. C.
John Franklin Keener, Harrisburg, Pa.
Edward Lee Lasuhell, Cleveland, Ohio.
Edward W. Noble, Winston-Salem, N. C.
John Page, Long Island City, N. Y.

Herbert Frederick Pearson, Athens, Ga.
Charles Edward Peters, Norfolk, Va.

Jacob Hall Rains, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Clarence Aaron Robbins, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Ear] Sullivan, Arkansas City, Ark.

John Randolph Tucker, Pensacola, Fla.
Harrison Billingsby Walton, Greensboro, N. C.
Alfred Brockenborough Williams, Jr., Dallas, Texas.
Alfred Louis Wolfe, Jr., Roanoke, Va.

1909 Hartwell Stansbury Adkins, Alexandria, Va.
Lenox C. Chew, Philadelphia, Pa.

Wilfred Eldred, Washington, D. C.

William Parry Gormany, Hendersonville, Ga.
Samuel Grady Holt, Academy, West Va.
Judge John Reaves Johnson, Ft. Pierce, Fla.
Alexander C. Knight, Baltimore, Md.

Robert Dickson Moore, Wardsville, La.
Lewis Fallon O'Byrne, Birmingham, Ala.
Leonard Buckland Ranson, Washington, D. C.
Henry Hunter Roberts, Norfolk, Va.

Walter Jennings Stone, Whelen Springs, Ark.
Winston Walker Thompson, Birmingham, Ala.

1908 Ira IX. Davenport, Collingswood, N. J.

th Jackson Davenport, Tuskegee, Ala.

George Washington Effinger, Redondo Beach, Calif.
Charles Louis Krebs, Norfolk, Va.

Hubert Erskine Nichols, Paeonian Spring, Va.

1907 Harold Lee Gage, Seattle, Wash.

Wade Lease, Foote, West Va.

Samuel Noel McCaleb, Louisville, Ky.

Robert Erwin Maxwell, Charlottesville, Va.
Lieut.-Col. Harry Willard Miller, Washington, D. C.
Edward Mischler, May’s Landing, N. J.

Oze Van Wyck, Atlanta, Ga.

Bernard Richard Walzer, Orlando, Fla.

Hiram Abiff Whittington, La Cueva, New Mexico.

1906 David Lawrence Anderson, Shanghai, China.

Adrien Victor Louis Rene de Beaumont, Lexington, Va.

Curtis Miller Hanna, Charleston, West Va.
Donald Duval Hawkins, Colfax, Va.

Charles Latimore Rowan, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Philip Henry Wisman, Washington, D. C.

1905 James leslie Anderson, Lancaster, Ky.
Thomas Garrison Dailey, Pawhuska, Okla.
Squire Sanford Davis, Fall River, Mass.
Alfred De Luc Dickerman, New York City, N. Y.
William Arthur Dudley, Staunton, Va.

Joseph Robinson Eggert, White Haven, Pa.
Leigh Harold Johns, New York City, N. Y.
Peter John Phillips, Cumberland, Md.

Millard Embry Poindexter, Memphis, Tenn.
Townsend Artman Tetterson, Sanford, Fla.
Edmond Kearney Vertner, Luray, Va.

George Washington Vierra, Helo, Hawai.
John Raymond Young, Charleston, W. Va.

1904 John Woodhull Conover, Boston, Mass.
Ray Addison Douglas, Oberfield, W. Va.
William B. Gillespie, New Orleans, La.
Orlando Towne Jones, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.
Kemp Lewis, El Paso, Texas.

George William Lindsey, Senatobia, Miss.
Samuel Hamilton McBride, Bolivar, Tenn.
Hugh Meeks McNabb, Rochester, N. Y.
William Ewell Montgomery, Vice, Okla.
Horace Edwin Mosher, Merrimac, Mass.
Walter Benjamin Perkins, Little Rock, Ark.

1903 Harvey Berlin Conner, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Charles Bowen Howry, Jr., Kansas City, Mo.
John Cunningham Packard, Delevan, Calif.
Martin McLea Shields, Schuyler, Va.

Howard Burt Yarborough, Palm Beach, Fla.

1902 \V. H. Atkins, Washington, D. C.
Albert J. Beauregard, Philadelphia, Pa.

John McClellan Buckingham, Memphis, Tenn.
William D. H. Chandler, Birmingham, Ala.
A. M. Clark, Lewisburg, Tenn.

William Thomas Duane, Pulaski, Va.

John C. Hudgins, Spencerport, N. Y.

George Cuthbert Powell, Washington, D. C.

1901 W. Barret Hankins, Toledo, Ohio.
Albert Gallatin Jenkins, Hagerstown, Md.
Charles L. Knowles, Miami, Fla.

John Larew Waddy, Homestead, Fla.

1900 Charles M. Cooke, Harrison, Ark.
Noel Aldredge Cropp, Harrisonburg, Va.
John Baltzell Fulkerson, Jonesville, Va.
John Douglas Hopkins, Savannah, Ga.
Hamilton Seth La Count, Cleveland, Ohio.
George Crittenden Lloyd, Leaford, Del.

1899 Edmund Blair Pancake, Romney, Va.
William Cardelle Parrish, Greensburg, Ind.

1898 Edwin Cabell Palmer, Madison Court House, Va.

1897 Samuel M. Harrison, Florence, Ala.
J. L. Leonard, Kansas City, Mo.

B. F. Von Borries, Chicago, Ill.

Troup Whitehead, Macon, Ga.

1896 Frank Lee Craddock, Jackson, Miss.
Robert Hildebrand, Washington, D. C.
Russel Coyner Patterson, Newport News, Va.

1895 George Johnson, Astoria, Ore.

1894 Eleazar Tarrant Adams, Jr., Berkley, Va.
Floyd Eugene Boston, Corsicana, Texas.
Lowndes Calhoun, Atlanta, Ga.

Isaac W. Eason, Norfolk, Va.

Galen Bishop Frye, Cape Nome, Alaska.
Edward Houston Humphreys, Lancaster, S. C.
Surrey Kent Page, Randont, N. Y.

1893 William Dickson Adams, Jr., Northport, L. L.,
Mor

Percy Leach Banks, Roanoke, Va.

James Lemuel Hudson, Houston, Texas.

Thomas McKinney Jack, Dallas, Texas.

Joseph Mickle Morgan, Atlanta, Ga.

John Clayton Tiffin, Sedalia, Mo.

1892 Samuel James Collingsgru, Washington, D. C.
William H. Greer, Jackson, West Va.

Dr. Herbert Lee Hamilton, Luka, Miss.

William Franklin Hays, Austin, Texas.

James Madison Hughes, Santa Rosa, Calif.

C. Desha Lucas, Shreveport, La.

Emile Theodore Myer, Louisville, Ky.

Calvin Williamson Ringo, Indianapolis, Ind.

William Roberston Whitehead, Norfolk, Va.
Morton Taylor Word, Drewry’s Bluff, Va.

1891 William Arthur Cook, Batesville, Ark.
Robert Lewis Dickinson, Dego, West Va.
George Hill Goddard, St. Louis, Mo.

Hendon Albert Houston, St. Louis, Mo.

William Hart Hudson, Seattle, Wash.

John Mastin Huffaker, Herculaneum, Mo.
Jesse Fishback Taylor, Brooks, Alberta, Canada.
Walter Hodgkins Turpin, Macon, Ga.

1890 Ethelbert Baier, Houston, Texas.
Richard Daniel Burke, Chattanooga, Tenn.
George Alfred Cunningham, Jr., Augusta, Ga.
William Richardson Davis, Landsford, S. C.
Robert Gilmore, Jr., Baltimore, Md.

J. P. Hail, Guys Store, leon Co., Texas.
Rev. John Scott Meredith, Norfolk, Va.
Philip Byrd Price, Jr., Little Rock, Ark.

1889 Gustave louis Charles Davin, Cleveland, Ohio.
Andrew Jackson Thomas, Paris, Ark.
red William Wood, Kansas City, Mo.

1888 William Henry Crank, Houston, Texas.
Edward Griffith Davis, Chicago, III.

William Cyril Gilmore, Norfolk Downs, Mass.
Frank William McCluer, Llano, Texas.

Jason Walker Mullins, Orlando, Fla.

Joseph S. Smith, Sertling, Va.

1887 Christopher Mayer Randolph, Baltimore, Md.
William Hallet Vaughan, San Jose, Calif.

1886 Harry L. Denny, Baltimore, Md.

1885 William Richardson Ashby, Baltimore, Md.
Charles Henry Page, Richmond, Va.
James Armstrong Welch, Denver, Colorado.

1884 H. Todd Houston, Washington, D. C.
Guy Sherwood Raymond, Dallas, ‘Texas.

1882 Stuart Buford, Bufordsville, Va.
George McChesney Craig, Craigsville, Va.
Frank Jonah Grayum, Abilene, Texas.

James William Morrison, Jacksonville, Fla.

1881 Claude Gibson Higgins, Palatka, Fla.
Don Pedro Wysong, Meade, Kansas.

1880 William B. McCluer, Chicago, IIL.

James Eppes Turner, Richmond, Va.
1879 George Kyle Nelms, Washington, D. C.
1878 John Monroe Floyd, Jackson, Ohio.

1877 Butler Jack, Washington, D. C.
Ross. H. Van Horn, Rock Island, Il.

1876 E.G. Marsalis, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Emile Montgomery, Washington, D. C.

1875 George Samuel Craig, Craigsville, Va.
Rev. Columbus Haywood Hobbs, Lund, Utah.
Lewis Carmera Jones, Mississippi City, Miss.
Miles Macon Martin, San Juan, Porto Rico.
William Smiley Ryan, Washington, D. C.
Tada Burmi Torie, Tokyo, Japan.

S. Miller Williams, Louisville, Ky.

1874 Edwin Atwood Glover, Edgefield, S. C.
Jenjamin Tip Likens, Houston, Texas.
Lawrence Finley Reinhard, Sioux City, Lowa.
William Clarence Steele, Galveston, Texas.

1873 Charles Beauchamp Anderson, San Antonio,
‘Texas.

William Beattie Boney, New Orleans, La.

Ferdinand van Bruyssel, New Orleans, La.

Laurence Sullivan Carter, Paducah, Texas.

Thomas Bramley Holloway, Chicago, III.

John Campbell Kelly, Galveston, Texas.

E. Howard Martin, New York City, N. Y.

Risdon Hutchings Price, St. Louis, Mo.

Charles Morgan Roberts, San Antonio, Texas.

1872 Jee Jocelyn McMahon, Galveston, Texas.
John Marshall, New York City, N. Y.
Alexander Montgomery Morrell, Pine Bluff, Ark.
Jack Burke Noble, Sheppard, Texas.

Egbert Janson Watson, Fayette, Miss.

1871 ‘Thomas Lane Connella, Everett, Wash.
Dr. William Harrison Hurt, Galveston, Texas.
James Monroe Mading, Rocky Mount, La.
Septimus Adelbert Robb, Trinity, Texas.
John Weber, New Orleans, La.

1870 Taylor Blow, St. Louis, Mo.
Charles Kelley Hibben, Chicago, Il.

Henry Alexander Hill, Shreveport, La.
Francis Henry Orme, Brunswick, Ga.

James Christian Pogue, Memphis, Tenn.
Norval Thomas Spence, Philadelphia, Penn.

John Samuel Thomas, Providence, Mo.
Samuel Henry Webb, Oaks, N. C.

1869 Ruperto Gonzalez, San Louis Potasi, Mexico.
Prof. James E. Smith, San Antonio, Texas.
Edward H. Stelle, Washington, D. C.

1868 Marshall C. -Wellborn, Houston, ‘Texas.
1867 Alexander F.

1862 Thomas Richard Moore, Lynchburg, Va.

Young, Sessumsville, Miss.

taal ooo alia alll

|

i i lal MM Nl |

Re i il ll th es ek ied

 

 

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee

alumni of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession

to transact business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who

by reason of specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the some profession
are invited to place their cards in the directory.

 

 

ee
Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
09
Attorney-at-Law Counsellor-at-Law Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building 100 William Street Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi New York Lynchburg, Virginia
e a s

Philip P. Gibson John H. Tucker, Jr.,
"10

E. C. Caffrey,

-at- 09
Attorney-at-Law Tucker and Mason
Marcum, Lovins and Gibson Court House Law Offices
First National Bank Building Commercial National Bank Bldg.
; Hackensack, N. J. 1%
Huntington, W. Va. Shreveport, Louisiana
e & e
Elwood H. Seal Carlton D. Dethlefsen Edmund D. Campbell,
"18-’22
Seal and Dice Attorney-at-Law
Attorney-at-Law
General practice in the courts of Suite 301 Bank of America Bldg.
the District of Columbia and 65 Market Street Douglas, Obear and Douglas
Kederal Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Telephone EXbrook 0237 Washington, D. C.

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, °10

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio
Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia.
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. ‘There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington

and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘5 2
‘ Ses
fi

the cigarette that’s MILDER + the cigarette that TASTES BETTER —

© 1934, Liccett & Myers Topacco Co. , |

 

