ALUMI Magazine

of Washington and [ee University

 

AY ounce [Number 3

January, 13S - $2.50 a Vear

de
» x cf i
A MEARE:
‘ gh Sree re
» Or? a+ ‘ 5
¥f SEA OP SS tOE:
nat
Di le
is

as)
A

Fast
ee
tis

ser 5
a Pike i %,
Tasik ? Si - : fy tis
- c ny ned < ie :

aie
Ue

—-

ha J is

ar.
>

ns aR vy
¥ SRS pre hae

nS S one Oe f
Meee

Pe WAGk

cae

‘4 »*.

ae Oke
See EY + oy cad

UH Rn BOY ON i

LIOR Un ecg th

SWS VESTA RCE

a CAR ASTER

. ie Mg

ta
et ha)
tor,

Sse Bue ey
t Pirie : ae Os, $f) Ni
SO GR Nat
vey, Oe

Ps 4 2
th Aes ry
‘ “an Re) 2) Ores aD 5
i ue ih VO. is. ; we Te 7a ' aoe,
‘ ; ; ws A Le he be NA
PIT VD ‘ = yy, Pome eth reat th 7 ai)
ins pe fe —. f aN Ky AY > Fi Vv j LVL ais»
i Noor SO ae ae COREY,
7A cue ° Vy sy,
AL SC a Penn

< nt

ae
vig on

eet
ys
een
Saat :
ae

RA Sa Oye
ROO Rice AOL oe Aten LOH a
Sy ian ree ie sory LOLe TARA e eR NS

¥ RESO ENS 4

Staats 6)
Body

3

) rel feet. “thetees eat) S\ \s
Yin daa Saayn! 3h Nisa:
Sey ‘ We Stee Sa Al
0 ¢ ; . A?Ty :

&

Sy
aMy S|
re le
Phen OG
a a

gga Pad hs sy
Ga Sea

¥ Irie 4 We ye ;
rt ( 4 ay ORF TON LY nee : ; :
sts 2D 7 2 ) a 32) oe Sen NAY oe ets bY ee ; wy .
‘ ; f oh Js ‘ si : RS rhs NOM meee. we Pp ay ROUEN ees
DER PRR ON Ay SF Ghe tn)
A typ
w
SS 63S SF)
1 27
Aw pss Se

~

Sly
BP

AW)

,

ron
*

AT te

PSD OLA op: .
GLa Tt Shae
aa

4

i
Beets,

.

ae

Fa

7
itr
yi r bs .
ees MY rere
, ts a a ate
oR XGr-s e ea Rothe
BOK el Wan
*

wr Peat

>

ee
A ot >

Ps
u As,

YF a hee

teak sas

7 whys f ~~ . ; Me RC yt
< X oy ? ihe
PSH Rc
. ; Ph hy
2 Se aed san ere ~~ .

Wee a * ‘ea 5 »
"ay . AdAwy ~ V .

Us ahh ‘24 ¢ eX ; eric ny ‘

Sot EN ATE

 

oe skp. Liss
ah he a 4 e
v +

Pe ee
a
donot
hipaa

NaN Hes ee Bike LMG ae
STEP ON, & : ao y “ i POY 7 3 a 1 8 Oo
Ce NRO Wes Heals ie Sene Riel Ae
Ah are ESM AS ERT Oy Kee VERE
4 a PE oS ee

eS EA.
+f pat Ds plats

(ey & Lh Cari at
« > ee

oa Ae aut Xe of \ nf

ath
t ieee |

ey " 6 ey
Aa

ye

x vibe
o i 5 fe hl
ie et ABT ease f
Nv Se OLED jerk) 2a
eet Spe Od em
AYN Wea ens
P< )
ae

Bee a
GaN e

PPR aA ; eA
¢ pao noe kets
the; Seeaes ile lleee wie ree
LN Re ek eis
ARLES LO RO an ong
PEAR So Fo Ye eee
Fa PANS ASE
Nar
ek
bt or.
4
shes

Mes

; ‘ a
‘ : ie *‘

os
Bi a.

4

‘ 1

yrs
Vwi

22 6
Paty Saks nd’ h
as os

a > j

aay

Ke BS ny te ‘ ig

EROS P ASR Nid SMM EOS B ES Te

Per Oa hina
Sieh a i
ae ie

WATE
es eRe axe a !
ies SNe

»

>.
toe ids
4.18
+

,

>
roeen a wy ftet : ‘
1 ; i Treat z = ft,
+) A ¥ Bots * e ey Ms Rey
ay i fe ‘ q ne 2 G es ten
ret me RON
(RAN WPL Raed Li Nahe eo Ck chan ee ;
Gr ASS URI ER Nah
Ni Fa LN Or RR OA PE ASRS COREY
; yee a v7 4 . 4%) '; es A
Peo % % a} . WAAL eo , As)
; ea ee :

Ae”

iy

34

ty
ee \
NA vee Mae eT nee Gy oh
BS eM EIN
, v + IRR . od ta Sens ‘re ew Ty
ALTA Wey. Mya
SOE ORO APD UN Ua GrsPN EONS
MYT NSS SS ae BAK RSD
Nore VAY bas ha Nett
SHS XD pe ; ieee oe ae
AVA AY : Baa tY iat
tg iS

: y » iar nt

ee

a
7 d+,
i

Be ke
7

ed

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Walter McDonald, President Harry K. Young, Secretary Stuart Moore, Treasurer
ALUMNI BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Walter A. McDonald, ’10 Randolph Cabell, ’20 Thomas McP. Glasgow, 716 J. Ran Tucker, ’02
Stuart Moore, °15 Dozier A. DeVane, ’08 Edward W. Lee, 713
VOL. VIII JANUARY 1933 No. 3

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

 

 

Appalachian Assocation, Tenn.-Va.—J. M. Barker, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.—]. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities.
Security Investment Company. New York—FEdward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
Atlanta, Ga.—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. New Orleans, La.—I. E. Dufour, 5240 Prytania Street.
Birmingham, Ala.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Bldg. Norfolk, Va.— Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building.
Charleston, W.Va.—\W.W. Donnally, Kanawha Valley Bank Pittsburgh, Pa—C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Charlotte, N. C.—Phil Howerton, 1100 Dilworthe Rd., W. Philadelphia, Pa.—. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Dallas, Texas—A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building. Pocohontas Club, Bluefield, W. Va.—A. L. Tyree, Bluefield,
Detroit, Mich.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Co. West Virginia. ;
Fort Worth, Texas—FE. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building. Roanoke, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
Huntington, W. Va.—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank. Richmond, Va.—Ran Tucker, State-Planters Bank Bldg.
Jacksonville, Fla.—R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue. San Antonio, Texas—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash
Lynchburg, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch Building. and Door Company.
Louisville, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Bldg. Washington, D. C.—Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Bldg.
CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
The Presigent’s Paes ooccekees enon 3 Meetings Among the Alumni Groups
\loore, Winner of National Oratorical Contest 4 SUT, IR esc ee 21
lithographs Exhibited at Library.................... 6 PRONE MANE SS as ae car tiies 21
Twenty-Seventh Annual Fancy Dress Ball .... 7 PORN, OC SOT stirs csssces sects 22
). Fe i a oh 8 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania........................ 22
Miss Annie: An Appreciation........................ aera LL WRMAUE EV SEO. 5. Lions hk ci -lakosevc etences seo
Compliment Cabell Tutwiler.............0.00..00.0... _ 10 L ORISVUNE, “EQGTIUUICIEY,. 55 05 5ccisconiscsersaescoscdesss 24
leigh Hanes, ‘20, Gets Second Edition............ 10 R.-M. W. C. Girls Guests at Game.............0...... 24
| Mt reatRRNM ck nes ce el uiccdbeteteiusstesticsnes. 10 Joe Hobson, ’20, in Partnership........................ 24
Athletics Go Forward Under R. A. Smith...... 11 A Passing Review of Recent Happenings........ 25
Winter Sports Off to a Favorable Start ........ eS Obituary
Christmas in Lexington During the Civil War 14 Geoere :G; Gonege (19 oe 206
Gaines: Heads ASGQCIATION............0......:sccccecsresens 16 Thomas Jackson Arnold, “67.................... 26
A, Gilpore Sammie: 20: 5. 6. iisicc cans 16 Clifton R. Breckenridge, *69.................... 26
Rit a NCA Anuar cinives cs eee 16 Rev. Wm. Pendleton Stuart, ’98.............. 26
Tilson to Coach 1933 Generals..............0..00000.0.: 17 Mason Miller Sproul, ’29....................0000. 26
xtra-Curricular Journalism...........00.00.000.0...... 19 Ring-tum Phi Staff Announced........................ 27

 

 

 

oo

 

 

a

E A 4a) ee ome iN

I

Mi ees) A oe Be Oo

 

The President's Page

NE of the distinctive characteristics of Wash-
ington and Lee is the cosmopolitan nature of its
student body. It ranks among the first schools
of the United States with respect to the wide distribu-
tion of In the
example, about eighteen per cent of
our boys are from Virginia and the
virtually

for

session,

its attendance. present

others come from every
section of the country.

This condition has been true for
a long time. It existed in ante bel-
lum days when most of the Southern
states sent their quota of promising
youth to Washington College. The
coming of General lee increased the
range of appeal; and within the last
few years there has been an even
greater tendency making
Washington and Lee in this sense a truly national insti-

toward

tution.

There are advantages in this condition too obvious
and too numerous to require mention here. Chiefly in
the swirl of campus personalities, the individual stu-
dent loses provincialism and acquires breadth of view,
It is probable that this fact is
one of the genuinely educative influences to be found
upon our campus.

and tolerance of manner.

But there are some problems connected with this
A widely scattered student body fore-
shadows a widely scattered alumni group. It 1s per-
haps true that no Southern institution has its alumni,
in proportion to their numbers, scattered through so
many communities. In every one of these communi-
ties Washington and Lee men are conspicuous by virtue
of capacity and achievement, but the number is usually
small. From the point of view of the University,
this fact difficulties. For one thing,
many of our alumni are so far away that they find

characteristic.

offers some

it difficult to return; and nothing pleases Alma
Mater more than to have visits from her sons. For
another thing, the groups are usually so small that
organization becomes difficult. A sense of unity

throughout the whole University family is not easily
developed, and the privilege of fellowship among
Washington and Lee men themselves is often denied.

There is no wish closer to the heart of the Uni-

 

[3]

versity officials than a desire to have these scattered
groups of alumni meet at regular intervals, become ac-
quainted with each other, refresh the consciousness of
the common bond which is the University, and stimulate
understanding and sympathy with regard to the Uni-
versity’s program. Whenever possible a definite organ-
ization will be found advantageous, but at events the
assembing of alumni for purposes of friendly comrade-
ship should be emphasized.

This suggestion is made not so much from the in-
terest of the University as from a conviction that the
fellowship will prove rich and profitable for the alumni
themselves. It is not an idle fancy that believes that
men who have gone through this institution and have
observed something of the spirit of the University have
become as it were members of a unique fraternity, the
Washington and Lee brotherhood. ‘They have certain
associations in common, they have memories of spots
and personalities that are rich, and they have ideals
that should be harmonious.

Speaking more personally I wish to say that no
chapters in the varied experiences I have had with the
University have been brighter or happier than the oc-
casional contacts I have made with alumni groups in
the various cities. I do not think I misjudge the situ-
ation when I say that on every occasion the alumni have
found the companionship of each other distinctly in-
teresting and even delightful. I should like to feel that
wherever even a small number of alumni live, they will
from time to time meet in the bond of their common
I heard during
the summer of a city in which there are just three or
four former students, but these men, differing widely
in age and in professions, have a fairly regular sched-
ule of association.

affection for Washington and Lee.

It would fortify us greatly, carrying on through
successive generations of fine boys, to feel that all
over the nation the sons of Washington and Lee are
having their regular reunions to remember their own
experiences, to discuss the subsequent developments in
the University’s life, and to sympathize with the great
aspiration which justify us and are the basis of our

hope.
é il lan st

A. eee M:N

Dee ee A ee

—————p

Moore, Winner of National Oratorical Contest

N CONNECTION with the activities of the Bicen-

tennial Celebration of the Anniversary of the

birth of George Washington a nation-wide series
of College Oratorical Contests were held. The first
nine orations were awarded first place in the regional
contests, and were delivered by the regional winners in
the National Oratorical Contest in the City of Wash-
ington, June 24, 1932.

James RK. Moore of Somerset, Kentucky, under-
graduate at Washington and Lee, was the winner in this
contest, receiving the official George Washington Com-
memorative Gold Medal. A reprint of the winning
oration follows:

WASHINGTON: NATION BUILDER

THE world has produced only one George Wash-
ington. It is fitting in this year 1932 that the United
States of America pay to the Father of Our Country
the honor he deserves. The Bicentennial Celebration
in honor of America’s greatest hero is world-wide.
Americans everywhere, no matter what their creed or
color, will join in a common tribute to their fellow citi-
zen and patriot, George Washington. It is our desire
to make him live anew in the hearts and minds of the
American people. We would not visualize him as
some half-mythical demigod, but rather as a courage-
ous, strong, patient, intensely human person. We
would visualize him as a man who worked, played,
studied ; sacrificed, fought, suffered; and lived to foster
our infant republic into being.

That infant republic of yesterday is today one of
the greatest governments on the earth. It is with a
deep sense of gratitude that we who are enjoying the
privileges afforded by this magnificent political organi-
zation, realize that no man did more toward building the
nation, than did George Washington. Whether our
minds go back to the stormy days of the revolution,
or picture the trying difficulties of the loosely organ-
ized confederation, or recount the critical days of the
newly formed Union, we behold Washington as the
dominant figure. It is the sterling character of Wash-
ington which went into the very fiber of the Nation,
thus, we may aptly term him: “Nation Builder.”

When the artist took brush in hand and painted
Washington as he crossed the Delaware, and as he
weathered the severities of a bitter winter at Valley
Forge, and finally, when he received the surrender of
Cornwallis at Yorktown, there were glorified for us
certain dramatic moments in the life of this man. But

FJ

can we look behind the paintings and see Washington
as he actually was, in many of those disappointing mo-
ments, when his spirits must have been tried to the point
of breaking, as he led his ragged woodsmen through
the dark and dreary days of the revolution. When we
look at him under such conditions as these, and see
the manner in which he met such adversities, then we
can realize what he accomplished in the building of the
nation.

At the very outset of the struggle, he was faced by
the best troops of Europe, while he had to rely on a
‘aw militia, who elected their own officers and carried
on war as they pleased. There was no commissary de-
partment, no uniforms, no arrangements for gunpowder —
or cannon. Furthermore, he had to deal with a Con-
gress which was utterly ignorant of the needs and de-
tails of war and which represented a people without
money, without arms, without allies or credit, and torn
by selfish interests. Amid all this confusion and utter
lack of organization, Washington was called upon to
defend the thirteen colonies against the mightiest mili-
tary power in Christendom.

But this lack of equipment and general prepared-
ness for war was not the only obstacle Washington had
to overcome.

As the war dragged on, the spirit of the soldiers
tended to weaken. The forces under Washington's ©
command had to undergo such unendurable miseries
and privations that there was always danger of whole-
sale desertion. In addition to this, the Commander-
in-Chief had to face actual treason in his ranks. When
his efforts did not bring immediate success, sharp and
bitter personal attacks were hurled against him. ‘To-
ward the end of the struggle, the defeats which every
army must at times suffer, tended to break the morale
of the people at home. It was in the face of such dif-
ficulties as these, that the courageous and intrepid spirit
of Washington held the army together, and kept alive
the determination of the people to complete what they
had begun. If you will picture Washington as he cross-
ed the Delaware, personally directing his campaigns,
or, if you will picture him at Valley Forge, actually
experiencing the hardships and privations which the
men of his army had to endure, then we will see Wash-
ington as he really was, a dynamic figure immersed in
the building of a nation.

When the war was ended, we might well have ex-
pected the General to retire, content with the contribu-
tions which he had already made to his country. But,

 

TO > oe aes,
a pepe Re ey
GF hy ee *

£* te.
eS
%

Suge oe ty fs 7
dish. fe ht ig ee hs
° LEE ta a iit shige
: te Re 4 % P oe

f Pa ~
. 1 :
“- Bae og sue +e, ¥ aoe 4 ™
Pit? eae f >
- 4 is Ta oe ra kde y a Tbe

>

 

President Hoover receiving the nine regional winners in the National Oratorical Contest at the White House, June 24, 1932.
At the rieht of the President is Honorable Sol Bloom, Associate Director of the United States George Washington
Bicentennial Commission.. Fourth from left is James R. Moore of Washineton and Lee University.

with the welfare of the people foremost in his heart, he
carried on in peace as he had carried on in war. Now
that freedom had been won, it must be retained and
the stability of the newly formed union must be assured.
The West must be developed and connected with the
vast. A strong central government which would hold
the thirteen colonies together must be created. ‘The de-
vastating war had temporarily wrought utter demorali-
zation of society, politics and public opinion. ‘The Con-
tinental Currency had degenerated. ‘The debts of the
new nation were staggering. Our credit abroad was in-
secure. Our foreign relations were muddled. And the
petty quarrels and jealousies which arose when the en-
thusiasm of the war had subsided, threatened to wreck
all that had been won. In short, there was no con-
certed plan which the states could follow to promote

their general well-being. Washington saw clearly the

imperative need for Union and that task he set himself
from the day he resigned from the army until the day
he was inaugurated President of the United States.
Thus it was Washington who started and nurtured that
great movement which culminated in Constitution and
the Union of the States. No other man could have
done this, for no one had the personal influence neces-
sary to arrest public attention. Thus we must again
think of Washington as a nation builder.

IXveryone recognizes the part Washington played
in the building of the nation when the colonies were in
the throes of revolution. No one denies the tremendous
significance of his efforts during the trying days of the
loosely organized Confederation. But now that the
Colonies had formed a Union, and Washington had
been raised to the highest office in the land, his greatest
work in the building of the nation was yet to be done.

1... ee aoe 6 6M UN

When after the ceremonies of the first inaugural were
over and the shouts and the cheers of the populace
had died away, Washington pondered deep and long
the problems which lay betore him. He knew that every
move he would make would be watched by critical eyes,
and that his every action would be subjected to the
most careful scrutiny. As yet, there was no precedent
to be followed, for this was a new and untried experi-
ment. Nothing existed but a Congress and a President.
There were no departments, no Supreme Court Judges,
no Cabinet members, no funds, and no financial re-
sources. What should be the mode of conduct and
etiquette of the President? What should be the rela-
tion of the President to the Senate, or to foreign min-
isters or to the public at large? For example, what
was Washington to do when the minister of France de-
sired to have personal access to the President and even
discuss matters of busines with him? Here at the very
outset, he could “have lowered the dignity of the Presi-
dential office by a false idea of republican simplicity,”
or he could have adopted a policy of cold seclusion on
the one hand or of pompous ostentation on the other.
In the face of such problems as these, Washington pre-
served the dignity and respect due his office, yet, at the
same time, managed to give free access to everyone en-
titled to it.

During his terms of office, he had to handle the
gravest of situations, on the outcome of which depended
the strength and success of the new nation. ‘The acute
Indian problem must be handled with firmness, yet with
rare intelligence ; the question of whether the National
government should assume the state debts threatened
internal harmony ; and the establishment of a National
Bank caused great controversy. ‘The most insidious
problem of all was the Whiskey Rebellion in Western
Pennsylvania. Those self-willed Scotch-Irish fron-
tiersmen were determined to have their own way and
resist the collection of a national revenue on distilled
products. Here was the first direct challenge to the
new government. It had to be answered, and on the
answer hung the fate of an untried union, for, if insur-
rection within its own borders could not be put down,
then the new experiment had failed.

Washington met the challenge squarely, and, at
the proper moment, moved fifteen thousand militia men
into Western Pennsylvania, and with one bold stroke
crushed the resistance completely.

The solution of these internal difficulties was not
the only service Washington rendered in the building of
the nation. ‘There was constant danger of foreign en-
tanglements. ‘Trouble lurked in our relations with the
three greatest powers of the time, France. England, and
Spain. Should our young Nation side with the cause

[ 6 ]

I

Ne ieee) 6g RE ee

———

of liberty in the French Revolution? Should the United
States tolerate the British impressment of our seamen?
Could the new government establish free access to the
Mississippi without antagonizing Spain? The story
of Washington’s policy need not be retold. His one
great aim was to avoid foreign entanglements, and, if-
humanly possible, maintain peace, so that the new nation
might develop the continent and, in that manner, rise
to National greatness.

As we look back and review the part played by
Washington in the building of the nation, we cannot
help but have a keener sense of his greatness. Some
may have shown as much zeal in the winning of our
freedom. I doubt it. Others may have labored as
ardently in forming an enduring Union. We don't
know them. A few may have equalled Washington in
constructive statesmanship. None surpassed him. But
as to courage, vision, and leadership displayed in the
moulding of a disorganized people into a strong and
democratic government, no one approached him.  For-
tunate indeed was America to have at its inception such
a man as Washington. The Personal Empire of Na-—
poleon had crumbled before he died in exile in St.
Helena, but the work of Washington still endures.

 

Lithographs Exhibited at Library

Aw exhibition of lithographs by Marion Junkin
of Lexington, now in New York city has been placed
on display at the library at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. Mr. Junkin was editor of the 1927 Calyx and
furnished illustrations for this annual after his gradu-
ation. He has been studying at the Art Students
league in New York for several years. He has oil
paintings in the 1932 exhibit of the Chicago Art In-
stitute.

Of special interest in his exhibit in the library is
a lithograph of Washington College, and a prize fight
and wrestling scene sketched from life at Madison
Square Garden. A sketch of a Harlem dance hall is
interesting and amusing.

 

Hon. Newton D. Baker, ’94, was appointed De-
cember 20, 1932, a trustee of Ohio State University by
Gov. George White. Mr. Baker will serve as an Ohio
State trustee until May 13, 1935. Mr. Baker is also
a trustee of five other educational institutions—Johns
Hopkins, Western Reserve University, Cleveland Col-
lege, Washington and Lee University and Sarah Law-
rence School.

 

Joun M. Brerer, ’08, is factory manager for the
Boston Woven Hose and Rubber Co.

 

tae

Pci Se cee

Meets A

b-~4-- NB

 

Twenty-Seventh Annual Fancy Dress Ball

By J. F

eee sounded —the crowd became
hushed—all eyes

Philip IV

The King and Queen—Princes and

His Majesty
entering the court.

Princesses — Dukes

and Duchesses—Am-
hassadors — Counts
and Marquis—all the
nobility of Spain were

to celebrate the

there
Ppa 0 of the Gran-
dees.’

A page in history
was alive for one

night. The regal

the beauti-

same
characters,
ful Senoritas in gay
costume and mantilla,
the sparkling conver-
brilliant

gold

sation, the
court dressed
and green, the gentle
musicians playing ten-
der songs of love for
the dancers—all alive
lor one night.

And with — that
background of the

court life of Philip
IV of Spain the
27th annual Fancy

Dress Ball was opened

l'riday evening, Jan-
twenty - eighth
with 1200 guests danc-
Ing to the

Bernie

uary

music of
Cummins and
orchestra.

‘rank Bailey of
Huntington, W. Va.,
as King Philip led the
figure with Miss Jus-
tine White,
Huntington,
I lizabeth.

also. of

as Queen

Savannah.

Miss Emily Woodruff of Columbus,
second group of the figure.
‘our groups were Harry Fitzgerald of Tulsa, Oklahoma,

sailey was assisted by
Georgia, as the Duke of

IK RANKLIN JONES
Avila:

as the Duke of

focused upon the entrance—

and the royal family were ville, I*lorida,

Vickers of Montgomery,

Tn ee

 

Emily Pickens
Woodrutf Walker

Peri

Bailey

Leading Members of the Figure of the Twenty-Seventh
Annual Fancy Dress Ball

 

Pickens Walker of
who with
led the

Aragon,
Georgia,
The leaders of the other

of the scene.

Ci o4

George
‘Texas, as the Count of Granada:
as the Marquis of Villena;

McClure of Dallas.
Jack Ball of Jackson-
and Carl

West Virginia, as the Count

of Salamanca.

There was not an
opening figure for the
ball as in past years
in which everyone par-
ticipated, but the main
hgure led by the offic-
ers of the Fancy Dress
officially opened the
Members’ of
were cos-
tumed in the dress of
the royalty
17th
The thousand of other
guests at the ball were
dressed in costumes of
all nations and from
historical
characters to figures
famous by com-

dance.
the figure

of early
century. Spain.

eminent

made f
ic-strip artists.

The ballroom was
elaborately decorated
and lighted to present
the effect of a scene

from the Spanish
court. From a_ pale
green ceiling hung

twenty lights designed
in Spanish style re-
flecting the green from
the inside to the gold
framework. Trees
shrubs, some
green and
some gilded, were
banked along other
parts of the room and
completed the illusion

and
natural

of a Spanish court of the early 17th century.

Bernie Cummins and his orchestra played from
a platform erected for them which was decorated in
green and gold in harmony with the color and. lights
The compositions which Cummins played

i ae A Li see: om

for the figure and the remainder of the dance were a
combination of those played in the 17th century up to
the present “Rumba” and a perfect balance of American
jazz and waltzes.

The officers of the Ball were: Frank Bailey, presi-
dent ; Pickens Walker, vice-president ; Eli Finkelstein of
Jacksonville, Fla., secretary-treasurer ; William Wilson
of Owensboro, Ky., business manager; and Arthur
Lamar of St. Augustine, Fla., publicity director. The
work of decorations, lights, designs, and architecture
were under the direction of Mrs. Beverley Tucker of
Lexington, Virginia.

Thursday night, January 26, the junior class had
their annual prom. For this dance the ballroom was
decorated in blue and white colors. Streamers of blue
and white paper formed a ceiling for the ballroom.
Along the walls there were various designs and figures
relevant to Washington and Lee.

The figure was led by Frank Bryant of Orange-
burg, N. C., president of the junior class, with Miss
Nona Hill Ewbank of Hendersonville, N. C. He was
assisted by William Thomas of Montgomery, Alabama.

The fraternities of Phi Gamma Delta and Alpha
Tau Omega were hosts to the University at a dansant
at the Robert E. Lee Hotel Friday afternoon from two
until five o’clock. Cummins and his orchestra also
played for this afternoon dance.

Fancy Dress Ball gave a tea dance Saturday in
the gymnasium which was the final dance of the set.
Cummins played from three until five at which time
the 1933 Fancy Dress was officially closed.

 

J. E. Yonge, '13, Honored

J. E. Yonce, 13, received his A.B. from Washing-
ton and Lee and later his LL.B. from the University of
Florida. He was a member of Kappa Sigma at W.
and I,. and Phi Delta Phi at the University of Florida.
Mr. Yonge has recently been elected president of the
Alumni Association of the University of Florida and
the following clipping from the Florida Alumnus will be
of interest to his many friends among our readers:

After graduation, he practiced law for a while in
Jacksonville, and in January 1917 he moved to Miami.
When the United States entered the World War, he
applied for a commission in the Air Service, but was
turned down because of his lack of weight. With char-
acteristic perseverance, he went to Washington, and
upon being turned down again there on account of be-
ing underweight, he went to work on a farm outside of
Washington, and by hard outdoor work, and eating
his boss almost out of house and home, gained the re-
quired pounds.

I

[8 ]

Mi Awe. Ao me oko Ne

His ground work was done at Georgia Tech, and
later was sent to Issoudun, France, where after wait-
ing some months, he received his flying training with
a pursuit group, and a commission as Second Lieuten-
ant Air Service. He now holds a first lieutenancy in
the Air Service Reserve.

After being discharged from the Army, he re-
sumed his law practice in Miami.

An intense interest in aviation brought him to the
forefront among those who were seeking to establish
Miami as an aviation center. A great deal of what has
been accomplished in aviation circles in Miami is due
to Yonge’s efforts. He served as Chairman of the first
Bar Association Committee on Aviation Law, is Chair-
man Municipal Aviation Board of the City of Miami,
and is attorney for Pan-American Airways, Inc.

Within recent months he was successful in obtain-
ing an appropriation from the Federal Government for
dredging an approach channel to the International Ma-
rine Air Terminal in Miami, used by the Pan-American
Airways, the city of Miami, and the U. S$. Coast Guard
Air Service in order to make it available for use by
the huge clipper ships of Pan-American Airways and
others. Incidentally this accomplishment is so far
unique, and has established a precedent for harbor im-
provement by the government for the benefit of the air-
borne foreign commerce of the United States.

Yonge was married on June 17th, 1930, to Miss
Margaret Reeves Delaney, of Miami Beach, and is the
father of one child.

 

C. Houston Parrerson, '19, writes from Sutsien,
Kiangsu, China, that his most recent activities are:
“Trying to guess where bandits are before they guess
where I am; trying to keep my temper while running a
motorcycle that has been repaired in the best(?) garage
in Shanghai in true Chinese style, with the timing gears
in backwards; trying to convince the suspicious Orient-
als that the American Church is really poor and that I
am not personally profiting through graft when I com-
plain of the “cut”; trying to explain the hopeless alle-
gorical riddle why the Americans prefer a jackass to
an elephant in the White House. If any one of the old
W. and L. alumni are interested in anything else that I
am trying to do, I shall give the second serial install-
ment next time.”

 

Louis J. Rauser, B.S. ’27, was married December
1, to Miss Margaret Jane Crawford, of Washington,
D.C. They will make their home at 5308 Eighth St.,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

T H E Aa hY ean Ned Me eas A 2 Toe ee

 

. . . .
Miss Annie: An Appreciation
Sens December 18, is Miss Annie’s birthday and the movement some years ago, by the United Daughters

what a delight it would be to her host of friends of the Confederacy, to buy from Mrs. Stonewall Jack-
aniong the alumni, if they could walk into her lovely son, the home and only real estate ever owned by Stone-
home and extend in person, all the good wishes in the wall Jackson and convert it into a Memorial Hospital.
world! To see her so well and happy, sur- A movement that people said, at that time,

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 

rounded by so many beautiful books. could not be possible, but these noble wo-

which, of course, she has read and men knew they could and would car-

digested and by mementos from ry through what they attempted.

much travel at home and abroad The great institution speaks well

and by interesting gifts from for this small beginning. It

her boys. The most inter- Is our one, great indispen-

esting and the most appreci- sable institution. And, it

ated is the handsome silver might be added, that Miss

service, presented to her, Annie’s interest and ac-

upon the occasion of tivity in this institution
her retirement from the is just as telling now,

librarianship of the as it was when it was

University. The in- started.

scription engraved on Kindly disposed

the tray speaks for it- and considerate, she

self : is nonetheless firm

a and uncompromising
lo Miss Annie, eo ee
na when principle is in-
the best friend of our
: eas volved. She always

college days, from her

ate knows where. she
boys. Washington ? .

; ngs eS stands on any impor-
and Lee University,

tant question and why,
June 1914. .
as well.

There are so many The alumni, who
reasons for the love and were here during Miss
admiration that the alum- Annie’s more active days,
ni and her friends have as librarian, need no in-
for her. formation regarding her
Her keen intellect. in- tireless efforts on behalf of
the student body, but, unfor-

tunately, some of the present

born and stimulated by wide
reading and travel. Her mar-

velous sense of humor and wit. day students are not so familiar
with her good works. In those days,
when new sweaters were needed for the
teams or new boats for the crews, there
was one way in which these accessories could be

making herone of the mostentertain-
ing women, whether as host or guest.

Her interest in people and affairs is
hoteworthy. She is not a stranger to the inter-

ests and doings of people of any land or tongue, but had and it was an appeal to Miss Annie to raise the

she is particularly interesting in portraying [Lexington money and then it was that she would set herself to the

of other days. arduous work of putting on a play and “getting” the
As a public spirited person, she has been, and is. necessary funds. The selection and performance of her

second to none, in her efforts to better conditions and to plays was always flawless. Selecting from both the stu-

push forward any movement that is for the commun- dent body and local town talent. she seemed always able

ity’s good. to select the very best actors for the parts. Any play
She was one of the founders and “carriers on” of (Continued on page eighteen)

[9 |

tl Hee A. Lae M:N

Compliment Cabell Tutwiler

A PHILADELPHIA paper recently published the fol-
lowing article on C. Cabell Tutwiler, who was born
and reared at Lexington and has many friends here,
on the occasion of his fifty-eighth birthday.

Carrington Cabell Tutwiler, vice-president of the
Franklin Institute, chairman of the Bartol Research
Foundation and president of Coopers Creek Chemi-
cal Company, knows chemistry, but when it comes
to the Einstein theory—well, it just isn’t one of the
pressing problems of his fifty-eighth birthday.

“There are probably not more than three persons
in the world who understand it, and I’m not one of
them,” Mr. Tutwiler said, laughing. His slight Dixie
drawl harks back to Virginia where he was born and
educated and where his ancestors settled generations
ago.

He likes to work and he likes to travel. So there
was no reason why he shouldn’t do both—work hard
for a year at a time, then knock off for a month or so
and take a trip, usually to Europe. But that was be-
fore business took such a ride. Now Mr. Tutwiler
says he travels no more, just works.

He is known among his host of friends in club,
manfacturing and scientific circles as a real worker.
Mr. Tutwiler, they say, has a faculty for stirring up
enthusiasm wherever he goes and whatever he does.

Scientifically inclined ever since his boyhood, he
continued his interest throughout his college days at
Washington and Lee University. He later attended
Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

Mr. Tutwiler came to Philadelphia in 1898 as chief
chemist for the U. G. I., a position he held for fifteen
years. He organized the tar company of which he is
now head and which contributed to the progress of ex-
plosive manufacturing during the World war.

In addition to his other activities, Mr. Tutwiler is
a member of the American Gas association and belongs
to the American Chemical Society, Chemists’ club of
New York, the University, Philadelphia Cricket and
Norristown clubs. He lives at Woods’ End, 9000
Crefield street, Chestnut Huill.

 

. ’
Leigh Hanes, '20
(Extract from The Roanoke Times)

PuBLIsHERS of Leigh Hanes’ Song of the New
Hercules have just announced that the persistently
growing demand for the book has made it necessary to
issue a second edition. The first edition of the Song of
the New Hercules was issued in July, 1930, and was ex-

[ 10 ]

I

Miu aes Ae.) ae

——

hausted within a short time after publication. Mr,
Hanes’ many Roanoke friends are highly gratified, it
goes without saying, to learn of his successful venture
in the realm of poetry, where his talents are a matter
of widespread knowledge throughout literary circles
in Virginia. Prior to embarking on the practice of law
in this city, Mr. Hanes, who is an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee University, was for several years a
member of the staff of The Roanoke Times. He is the
editor of The Lyric, the second oldest peotry magazine
in the United States. The Song of the New Hercules
is published by Bruce Humphries, Inc., 470 Stuart:
street, Boston.

 

Intramurals

Kappa ALpHa, football champions and runners-up
in swimming, increased their first place lead in the in-
tramural standings during the wrestling and handball
tournaments. ‘Their total is now 98. The Touring
Tigers held their second place position with 84 points
although they dropped three more points behind the
leaders.

Pi Kappa Alpha jumped from eighth to third place
in the standings by virtue of 40 points gained in the
horseshoe tournament. Kappa Sigma came from
last place tie to fifth by winning 60 points in horse-
shoes and wrestling. §. A. E. is in fourth place with <
score of 73%. The D. U.’s are tied for seventh place
with Sigma Nu which came up from fourteenth.

Intramural standings:

IN MMII Selb ony eso cachs snean anaes 98
RRR May 6g on ian vc dawnen 84
Br Rie PURINE 8 oh. F- 52 --os coerce oa 77,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .................... 73%
RIMM nak ooo cvct choses ons 605
BOR MPMI. ony ss = Sccck oops sheen ts: 57
RNMPRII NT GE os fia cde cesss- feds: Gesery: ) lees 57
pO eS Baa. a a ee 53%

PU TSM SIDI 6. oo cdscks 50.58. -500 52

BE NNR sta cut ice snnpings 51%
ey SB RR (a a 51%
PC ARMOR SBE Soo Mths Be dota scars 45
SE ce 0 Elin iy Comat a ee 44
es UO a os hd seal peed -n 4]
Meee TRON oS 2 cS cde hae cpa estas 40
Alpha Tat Omega .-.:... 55.0055... 38
Pi. Delta te sate: .. Set hsts tenncs 34
Phi Gamma Delta 3 °23.45.2055.. 566s 29
Ligeia Cn PURI AO tog nics ee svenn as 26
as DON: Et Ay a hoes ss. osc es 26
Liens Bea Delta 6 ioe 8 it ae 19
Ata Teen 2 MUL 123 ite tne ke 15

 

Aa ae ee IN

I

Meee: A: ee oe

Athletics Go Forward Under R. A. Smith

By W

BOVE a door in Doremus gymnasium is a sign
bearing just a name, Richard A. Smith. Through
this door every day pass many of those who help
to keep Washington and Lee athletics moving, for with-
in is the hub of the Washington and Lee athletic wheel,
the office of the director of intercollegiate athletics,
Captain Dick Smith.
lew alumni and fewer stu-
dents of Washington and Lee
know the debt which their Al-
ma Mater owes to Captain Dick.
As player, coach and director
he has devoted more than six-
teen furthering the
Washington and

To his initiative and per-

years to
interests of
Lee.
servance goes the credit for the
improvements which have taken
place in the outdoor part of
Washington and Lee’s athletic
the decade,
and to his coaching may be at-

plant within last
tributed the success of some of
the best basketball and baseball
ever produced at
University.

teams this

As a monument to his ef-
forts a beautiful concrete foot-
bridge, the longest in the world,
stretches out magnificently from
the campus proper to Wilson field, the General’s out-
door stronghold. Richard A. Smith is responsible
for that bridge, which upon its completion in 1928
made the trouble and dangers of getting to the field
only an unpleasant memory. The Calyx of 1928
culogizes upon the old route and continues with praise
where praise is due.

“For many years students, visitors and athletes
of Washington and Lee have been forced to descend
a slippery and dangerous flight of stairs, cross a rail-
road track, and then climb a muddy embankment to
get to Wilson field.

“Today, due to the efforts of Richard A. Smith,
better known as Captain Dick, there is a beautiful con-
Crete bridge across the cut.

Captain Smith arranged
tor

a special University assembly and explained the
Project earlier in the year, and the customary splendid
Spirit of the student body responded to the extent that
\ ashington and Lee can be proud of another splendid

 

R. A. Smith, *13

’. S. BARKER

addition to the architectural beauty of the campus
buildings.”

But the bridge was not the first of Director Smith's
projects for improving the condition of the athletic
grounds. A few years previous he had instituted and
superintended the enlarging and draining of Wilson
field and the installation of
really permanent stands.

qually important, if not
more so, was his reorganization
of the whole system of intercol-
athletic relations at
Washington and Lee.
the University as
athletics in 1919,
arrangement of schedules
and trips was attended to by
student

legiate
sefore
he came to
director of
the
managers. There was
no real organization, and with-
out organization no efficiency.
susiness-like management fea-
tures the athletic department
of today. ‘The details of sched-

ules and trips are smoothly
managed. A system of mana-

gerial cooperation permits easy
handling of games and meets.
Rarely is there a hitch in the
Difficulties are fore-
seen and avoided or surmounted.

It was in the spring of 1919 that Dick Smith first
began to make history for himself at Washington and

program.

Lee. He was a freshman then, having entered the
University from Fishburne Military Acadmey the pre-
vious fall along with several other Fishburne boys who
were destined to become famous in Washington and
lee athletic history.

He had played short
that had defeated the
Those

Smith’s sport was baseball.

stop for the Fishburne team
General diamond outfit the previous spring.
were the days when Washington and Lee played some
prep schools. He had played football too at Fish-
burne and went out for the team in his first year here,
but an injury forced him to give up the grid game. He
was ready when the baseball call came, however, and
although only a freshman he made the team, for those
were the days when freshmen were permitted to take
part in varsity athletics. He was hindered at first by

an injured arm but soon showed he had ability as a

| I |

Ly: ie A LiwinMs: N

I

 

iE AAC Re be Piao ee oe

 

second baseman. A WRing-twn Phi reporter of that
time thought so. In a story published in that paper
in April 1910, the reporter said, “Smith, who has been
out of the game so far—a bad arm being his trouble,
also—inade his initial appearance in the swatfest with
William and Mary, and covered ground like a real
veteran, although he has heretofore played short. The
l‘ishburne boy shows great ability as an infielder, and
this coupled with his base running and hitting make him
a very valuable man on Kennoy’s team.”

And a very valuable man Smith’s teammates must
have considered him, for the next year, his sopho-
more one, he captained the Blue and White nine. ‘They
were bang-up ball teams, those outfits that Dick Smith
played on. ‘The 1910 team won thirteen and lost seven
games. Seven games were rained out in 1911, but of
the 17 played Smith’s team won eleven. The year 1912
saw an enlarged schedule for the Generals but no in-
crease in losses. ‘They won nineteen, lost six and tied
one. Some of those victorires were big ones, too.
There was a 25-0 win over Western Maryland in 1912,
and three of the 1911 victories, two over Hamilton and
one over Roanoke saw the Generals’ total up in the
teens. Intersectional games aplenty figured in the
schedule and therefore in Washington and Lee wins.
Columbia, Rutgers, and numerous other Northern
schools were among the victims.

Captain Dick got his first experience in managing
Washington and Lee teams during his sophomore year,
when he was manager of his class football team. He
was a member of Sigma Nu fraternity and of the
White Friars, and he still chuckles over memories of
his initiation into the last-named society, which he says
he will never forget. Later, when he came back to
Washington and Lee as director and coach instead of
participant, Omicron Delta Kappa recognized his lead-
ership and made him a member.

In 1912 Dick Smith left Washington and Lee to
return to Fishburne where he became a coach and in-
structor in mathematics. In the summer he played
professional baseball.

But Washington and Lee was not to lose forever
this man who had meant so much to her baseball team
and who was to mean much more to all Washington
and lee teams in future years. He came back to
Lexington in 1919 to start the work of really organizing
the athletic department. With him came several Fish-
burne boys, and through them the nickname, “Captain
Dick.”

Besides his duties as Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics he ventured successfully into the coaching
field. When Jimmie DeHart came to Washington and
Lee in 1922 to coach the football team, Director Smith

[ 12 ]

N: a

  
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
    

became his assistant. lor three years he aided De-
Hart in turning out almost unbeatable football teams,
and when Jimmie left to go to Duke, Captain Dick
continued for a year as assistant to his successor, Pat
Herron.

He had taken over the coaching of the baseball
team in the spring of 1923, and in 1926 he became head
coach of basketball. In both of these sports his start
gave promise of the success which was to come. The
baseball team of 1923 won 16 games and lost only four,
A large portion of the credit for that team went to
Coach Smith, for he had only five veterans, two
pitchers, two infielders, and one outfielder, as a nucleus
around which to build this remarkable ball club. Three
of the defeats chalked up against the Generals that
His first Wash-
ington and Lee basketball team was not quite as suc-
cessful, but with only two veterans it won eight and
lost six games in a season which was climaxed by the
winning of the state championship and featured by a
46-27 victory over the University of Virginia.

season were by the margin of one run.

Not all of Captain Dick’s baseball teams have been
as good as the first one. But the General nines of the
last ten years have turned in some mighty imposing)
records. The 1925 team won 13 out of 19 games,
The 1931 outfit won 12 out of 17, beating all of the
leading teams in the state except V. M. L., which was
not on the schedule. The 1932 team won 14 out of
20 contests, winding up the schedule with a six game
Northern trip on which they beat Temple, Cornell,
Colgate and Drexel and lost to Army and New York
University. In only one season since Captain Dick
took over the reins have the Generals lost more games
than they won.

The shorter record of basketball teams under the
coaching of Captain Dick is even more imposing.
Stepping up the pace set by Coach Smith’s first quintet,
the 1927 team won 10 and lost five games to annex
the championship of Virginia’s Big Four. The 1928
season put a temporary stop to Washington and Lee
basketball championships, but the following year
brought the “point a minute team,” which lost only
one out of 16 games. This team averaged 47 points
a game to its opponents 24. The one defeat was a one-
point margin affair at the hands of the University of
Kentucky five. The 1930 quintet, the last that Captain
Dick coached, won 16 out of 18 games, losing only to
the Southern Conference tournament runners up, Duke,
and to Kentucky in an overtime game.

 

Henry P. Carrincron, °12, is working for the
Koppers Coal Co., at Maitland, W. Va.

Ps kth ds.

men G AH eo ON: Ss

Winter Sports Off to a Favorable Start

By Joun A. CuLiey

INTER sports, probably the most popular

part of the atheltic program to the students,
got under way Friday night, January 6, with the vars-
ity basketball team conquering St. Johns College of
Annapolis by a 51-29 score. ‘To the alumnus who has
not visited Doremus gymnasium since wrestling and
boxing have been made major sports along with bas-
ketball, it would be a treat to him to see student re-
sponse to athletics during the winter months.

Basketball, boxing, wrestling, track, and swim-
ming combine to furnish ten teams wearing the Blue
and White. ‘The months of January, February, and
March tax to the limit the equipment of the gymnasium
and there is hardly a night during this time that it
is not the scene of a battle between the Generals and
some worthy opponent.

Attendance at basketball games dropped off a lit-
tle last year, but with the netmen again showing the
dash and speed of the quintets that swept all opposition
aside during the ’28-’31 era, capacity crowds may again
be expected at important games.

Five members of the Southern Conference are met
on the home court during the season. An unusual
aspect is in the scheduling of three games with Vir-
ginia. One game will be played at Charlottesville, one
in Lexington and the rubber game will come off in
Lynchburg. This city will also be the site of the game
with Duke. The fact that Duke has been cut off the
home schedule removes one of the most colorful games
on the Lexington program. Kentucky has been omit-
ted from the schedule for the first time in a number of
years. This means that the varsity will not be taking
its usual trip into the den of the Wildcats and the
West Virginia Mountaineers at Fancy Dress. West
Virginia, however, will be met again, this time at Blue-
held, W. Va., on February 4.

Undefeated for three years of varsity competition
and four years of freshman, Coach Mathis’ wrestlers
had a hard time scheduling an early first match and
finally failed. Johns Hopkins was scheduled to open
things with a meet in Baltimore on January 7. At the
last minute they were forced to call the match off and
Mathis got in touch with Davidson and thought he had
them as a substitute when they called up the day be-
fore the meet and said it couldn’t be held. Navy re-
placed Army on the meet and will undoubtedly be the
strongest opponent that the grapplers will meet. They
went through an undefeated season last year, defeating

the strong teams of the East. Mathis is faced with the
difficulty of finding replacements for outstanding vet-
erans who failed to return to school after last year or
who graduated. At the present time it looks like three
members of last year’s freshman team will be fighting
in the 118-, 126-, and 135-lb. classes, while men with-
out previous varsity competition are slated for the
175-lb. and unlimited classes.

Boxing. This is a word to conjure with in South-
ern Conference circles and a favorite among sport fans
who flock to Doremus gymnasium. Last year saw
Washington and Lee’s boxers enjoy their most success-
ful season since the inauguration of the sport here and
it was also their first season under the tutelege of
Warren (Tex) Tilson, ’25. Tilson likes to develop
the fighter with a heart, which means that when one of
his fighters enters the ring there is plenty of action.
In the first match of the season, Maryland tied the
Generals 4-4. The reason eight bouts are being fought
this year is because of the new National Intercollegiate
ruling which has introduced a weight between the old
145 and 165 lbs. classes at 155 Ibs. Six veterans led
by Captain Pound and Nace Collins are ready to an-
swer the call of Tilson to fight.

Trackmen started their workouts right after the
Christmas holidays for an indoor meet with Virginia
at Charlottesville on February 4. Washington and
L.ee’s veteran coach, Forrest Fletcher, has Captain Eli
Finklestein, champion low hurdler, as the nucleus for
the formation of his team. “Fink” was forced out of
competition last year when he broke a bone in his foot
before the season started. Other third year men on the
team are Rivers and Cook, sure point winners in the
high jump, and Ted Curtis, high jumper and vaulter.
On the 25th of February the trackmen will travel up
to Catholic University in Washington for this school’s
annual indoor carnival. The Southern Conference
indoor meet will be held as usual at Chapel Hill on
March 4.

The only minor sport on the program, swimming,
will be attempting to continue its undefeated record of
the past two years. Coach Cy Twombly is expecting
stern opposition from William and Mary, Duke, and
Virginia. It is hoped to also schedule North Carolina
State. An abundance of veteran material and some
brilliant individual performers from last year’s fresh-
man team make the outlook bright.

(Continued on page twenty-seven )

[ 13 ]

. A L

WV; EN Northern and

Southern armies marched and
counter-marched in the Valley of
Virginia and clashed in bloody con-
flict throughout its length, the one
ravaging, the other trying to pro-
tect, even Christmas could inject
little jov and cheer into the life of
a war-worn people. In almost every
Lexington home there was mourn-
ing for a young warrior lying in
an unknown grave far from home,
or deep concern for those in ever
constant danger in the field. No
longer could the children look for-
ward to that glorious occasion when
they would be proudly blowing a
tin horn, sucking a big red candy

cane, or strutting around in copper:

Ba ee | M

ae

ce

toed, red-top boots; for most of the
stores were closed, and sugar was
an expensive luxury, if it could be
acquired at all. Instead, children
talked of pickets, flank attacks, and
ten-pounders as they moved their
make-believe armies about.

Church services at night had been
suspended because of scarcity of
candles, and the rector of the I pis-
copal church was an artillery leader
in the Army of Northern Virginia,
saying over and over as he com-
manded his battery, “Fire, boys, and
the Lord have mercy on their souls.”
Their Sunday night frolic on the
way to church was missed by the
Presbyterian lassies, too.

In the midst of the war. five

| 14 |

 

Christmas in Lexingto

boys made up the student body of
Washington College, and they were
too young to enter the army. About
250 cadets were enrolled at V. M. L.,
but they were always waiting for
the call to the front, and when it
came rendered heroic and valuable
service. There were enough students
at the college shortly after the war,
however, to hoist Professor Nel-
son's cow and calf and a two-horse
wagon to the top of Washington
College to share standing room with
the statue of George Washington.
At Christmas time the country
people still had their taffy pullings
and apple butter “‘bilin’s,” although
many suffered at times from lack
of food. The editor of the Gazette

 

 

 

=?

a

—————

—

 

Ni

¥

During the Civil War £3 7

Indeed, those were days no one

 

was moved to say that if one tenth

of the apples used to make brandy

were dried to be used for food, the

people would be much better off and
have more brandy than they needed
too. Homes had been stripped of
even their carpets to provide for
the ragged grey armies.

Mr. Pettigrew’s candy shop on
Main street remained unfinished,
and the customary displays of red
and white striped stick candy did
not appear in its windows at Christ-
mas time. Coffee was almost for-
gotten, a mixture of rye and wheat
had been used so long in its place.

Margaret J. Preston’s diary shows
vividly why Christmas was not the

time for happy festivities in Civil

war Lexington. This entry is made
for Christmas Eve of an early year
of the war:

“Last year the utmost hilarity
reigned. We had a beautifull Christ-
inas tree, filled with innumerable
presents for everybody, servants
and all.”

‘Now the sadness of the house-
hold forbids any recognition of
Christmas; we are. scattered to
our Own separate rooms to mourn
over the contrast. Willie lies in
a distant grave. Randolph's coffin
has been carried out of the house
so recently that no sunshine has
vet come back. Frank is _ here
with his one arm, making us

feel perpetually grieved for him.”

[ 15

would want to live over. Amid such
hardship and suffering, Christmas
was not a time to be looked forward
to months in advance, but a time
when present trials were made only
the more bitter because of compart-
son with the former joyous days of

peace.

 

(Reprinted from The Southern
Collegian of December 1932)

owe, Re LL Ase IN

I

Pe ema age Rat

 

Gaines Heads Association

Dr. Francis P. Gaings, president of Washington
and Lee university, was elected president of the Co-
operative Educational Association of Virginia at the
closing business session of the twenty-ninth convention
of the Association which met in Richmond, Va., Nov.
22, 23, 24, and 25. He succeeds Dr. J. L. Jarman, pres-
ident of State Teachers College at Farmville, who has
been head of the organization since 1929,

Dr. R. H. Tucker, Dean of Washington and Lee
University, delivered the principal address of the even-
ing session of Nov. 22. He spoke on the relation of the
government to the welfare of the community, and
stressed the immediate responsibility of the voters for
the conditions in their localities, pointing out that edu-
cational and welfare work are among the most impor-
tant functions of the government.

The Association is divided into eleven groups,
ranging from primary schools to colleges. Dr. Walter
Flick, head of the Psychology department, Washing-
ton and Lee university, presided over a meeting of the
colleges and secondary schools group on Friday after-
noon, November 25th.

 

A. Gilmore Cummings, '20

A. GILMoRE CumMMINGs, 38, for the past three
years principal of the high school at Blacksburg, was
elected by the Bedford county school board as superin-
tendent of Bedford county schools, October 7th.

Mr. Cummings has had much experience in school
work. He was educated in the public schools of Rock-
bridge county and was a student at Washington and
Lee University at the beginning of the World War,
when he spent one year in France with the intelligence
service of the eightieth division. Returning from
France he accepted the position of principal of the
Goshen high school, was principal of Fairfield school,
and then went to Northampton county, where for five
years he was principal of the Exmore-Willis Wharf
high school. He also served one year as principal of
Farmville high school and one year as principal of the
Jefferson high school at Alexandria.

There was a large number of applicants for the
position.

Mr. Cummings took charge of the office of sup-
erintendent on October 15.

 

Jim Cox WiLzourn, LL.B. '27, has a position with
the legal department of the M. and O. Ry., with
offices located at 1210 Fullerton Building, St. Louis,
Missouri.

| 16 |

Ruff and Ready

Ir 1s with no idea of amassing great wealth that
the editor and publishers of the Coconut Grove Exami-
ner go about their undertaking. Rather they seek to
serve well their constituency by publishing a paper
which presents news items of public interest, together
with such editorial comment, from time to time, as may
be deemed necessary to better awaken the public con-
science to an understanding of the problems of the day
and the best method of their solution. But in all
things it is always plain spoken. When we are offered
a good suggestion, we accept it; when we have a good
idea, we pass it on; when we see a good man, we com-
mend him.

And that brings us to the subject of our story, or
rather to the subjects, for we have in mind at this time
two men who measure up to our ideals, and who are
just the sort of men we would want to be if, instead of
publishing this paper, we were practicing law, for that
is their profession.

Both Wallace Ruff and Thomas J. Ready are con-
scientious and considerate, as well as industrious and
efficient lawyers. By reason of these qualities they
have built up a large practice and are meeting with
more than the average amount of success.

Mr. Ruff is a graduate of Washington and Lee
University. He began the practice of law in Virginia,
his native state, in 1912. In the summer of 1925 he
moved to Miami and has been practicing his profession
here since then. His family consists of a wife and
four children. He is an officer in the First Presby-
terian church, and in a number of the Masonic organi-
zations, and is a past president of the Acacia club. He
is also an officer in the Optimist club, and a member
of the Royal Arcanum and the Junior Order of United
American Mechanics, as well as the Epsilon Iota Phi
Greek letter fraternity.

While these men differ in politics, religion and tem-
perament, yet by some strange fate they were drawn
together to form the legal firm of Ruff & Ready, and
they are all that the name implies. We do not know
of a name which has more picturesqueness, nor of a
firm which has greater ability.

We wish them much success.—From the Coconut
Grove Examiner, Florida.

 

Hon. Newton D. BAKER spoke recently at the
Women’s Democratic Luncheon Club for which oc-
casion special invitations were sent to Washington and
Lee alumni residing in the Philadelphia metropolitan
area.

 

FRANK E. FREEMAN, 731, is taking his Master’s
degree in Spanish at the University of Pennsylvania.

AS cot) a oe IN

M 2G A 24 i 2a

Tilson to Coach 1933 Generals

By DeForest CLARK

TER the resignation of Jimmy DeHart as

head football coach at Washington and Lee

following the 1932 season, the task of choosing
a new man to fill the vacancy of DeHart fell upon the
shoulders of the University Athletic Council. With-
out a doubt the members of this council were ready for
such an event and at an in-
formal meeting held shortly be-
fore the Christmas holidays, the
news that Warren E. (Tex)
‘Tilson, one of the best athletes
ever turned out at Washington
and Lee, would take the place
of DeHart was extended to the
football players and others. Tex
for the past two years has acted
as assistant coach under De-
Hart. At the same time it was
made known that Harry K.
(Cy) Young, Alumni secretary
and coach of freshman football,
would act as associate coach
with Tilson. The appointment
of these two men brings an all-
alumni coaching staff to Wash-
ington and Lee.

Tilson entered Washington
and lee back in 1921 coming
here as a cadet from Greenbriar
Military Academy. His first
year in school he played tackle
on the football team but he did not receive a letter. In
1922 Tex became a member of the Alpha Club which
that same year went national and became Lambda Chi
Alpha.

hall team and at the completion of the season he joined

He continued his playing on the varsity foot-

the boxing squad and earned a letter in both of these
sports. As a boxer Tex was right at the front and
in two meets with the University of Virginia, he de-
feated Lefcovitch, one of their star mitmen. The first
match, which was held in Charlottesville, went to ‘Tex
by a technical knockout while the other one, held in
lexington, was won by a decision. Letcovitch per-
formed for the United States in recent Olympics. This
was the time when Tex first became acquainted with
Jimmy DeHart as it was DeHart’s first year of coach-
ing the football team.
tery who is now head coach at V. M. [. Each year Tex

He took the place of Bill Raf-

seemed to improve as a star tackle on the team and his

[ 17

 

Warren E. Tilson, ’26

brilliant showing in 1923 earned him the title of cap-
tain-elect of the 1924 team.

As a big hard-hitting linesman, Tex was a great
power in stopping opponents’ rushes and opening holes
in the line. One of his weekly performances was to
block punts, drop-kicks and passes. When the Gen-
of the Athletic Council. The
1924 football team was crowned
both State and South Atlantic
champions.

During 1925 Tex took to
wrestling along with his foot-
hout. He was also taken into
Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fraternity, as well as
White

l‘riars. To climax the rest of

being a member of

honors, Tilson was elected head
erals met Kentucky in 1923,
‘Tex blocked a try for goal after
touchdown that would have
made a victory for the Wild-
cats. The game ended up in a
6-6 deadlock. In 1924 Tex was
not only captain of the football
team which passed through a
good season but he also fought
in the 175-pound division on the
varsity boxing team. The box-
ers lost a meet to Army that
vear, 5-2 but Tilson won his
ball and easily held down the 175-pound class. That
season the varsity grapplers met nine teams and de-
feated five. ‘Tex was named captain-elect for the fol-
He was
also elected president of the student body. In ‘26 he
captained an undefeated wrestling team and was elected
It was a banner

lowing year as he won seven straight matches.

president of the Executive Committee.
year to close at Washington and Lee. Tex had worked
hard both in student activities as well as athletics and
lad vecome popular with the student body.

Following his successful career at Washington
and Lee, Tex teamed up with Jimmy DeHart and went
to Duke University to act as assistant coach of foot-
ball and head coach of boxing and wrestling. DeHart
and ‘Tilson turned out one of the best football teams
that had ever represented the Blue Devils. The Gen-
erals met Duke in football in 1930 at Durham before
DeHart and ‘Tilson had come here to coach and drop-

Ei. See ae A Lo tA Se ON

I

Mid Aas. AZ. TL oe

 

ped the game by a score of 14-0. Coach Tilson brought
his Blue Devil boxing and wrestling teams to Lexington
on several occasions. At the close of the 1430 toot-
ball season at Washington and Lee, Eugene Oberst, ai
that time head coach of football, resigned and Jimmy
DeHart was secured in his place with ‘Tilson acting as
his assistant. In 1931 football prestige at Washington
and Lee picked up and the Generals defeated Virginia,
V. P. I., and Princeton, losing to Maryland, West Vir-
ginia, and Duke by close scores. ‘The prestige dropped
last season and the Big Blue dropped nine out ot ten
contests.

Since their new appointment Tilson and Young
have spent a great deal of time talking over and drawing
up plans for the 1933 football season. Both of these
men have everything to gain as the record of last sea-
son is not very bright. Instead of calling Young as-
sistant coach, Tilson immediately gave him the title of
associate coach because both of the men are going to
work together. One of the main items in their pro-
gram is co-operation with the students. lor the past
two seasons the team has been more or less an individ-
ual organization and the student body knew little of the
happenings of the team or its players. DeHart in
1931 held secret practices and the student body was
not admitted. In 1932 he lifted this ruling but he
failed to let the team come to the rallies and the stu-
dents lost interest.

Tilson recently announced that spring . practice
would begin early in March and it was his plan to set
aside one day each week of spring practice for a regu-
lar game to be played between two picked teams. ‘The
games will be regular contests and the necessary officials
will be used. It is also the plan of Tilson to spend
much time in stressing blocking, tackling, punting, and
passing, all weaknesses of the 1932 eleven. The system
used will be about the same as that of the well known
Warner. It was used by DeHart but it will follow
the original a little more than last season. The block-
ing backs will not face each other as they did last
year.

Tilson has a difficult schedule ahead of him but he
is taking it with a smile. Without a doubt it is one of
the toughest schedules that a General eleven has ever
faced. Some of the strongest teams in the country will
be met, including Yale, Princeton, Kentucky and V.
P. I. A new opponent has been booked in Centre Col-
lege and the game will be played at Danville, Ky.

The outlook for Tilson and Young is bright be-
cause nineteen out of twenty-four lettermen are ex-
pected to return. Twenty-six freshman gridders will
step up from a team that lost only one game and that
to Virginia by a close score.

[ 18 |

° . as
Miss Annie: An Appreciation
(Continued from page nine)
that she would put on was sure of 100 per cent support.

So helpful was Miss Annie in the affairs of the
University, that President William L. Wilson titled
her, “His Lady Vice-President of W. and L.”

It was Miss Annie’s great interest in the pleasure
of the student life, that was responsible for the inau-
guration of the Fancy Dress Ball, which has become
the greatest social event in the college life of the South.
Kvery one of the thousands of boys and girls who
come every year to enjoy this stupendous affair, should
know that Miss Annie deserves all the credit for start-
ing this lovely ball and should not forget that expres-
sions of appreciation are in order. While she does not
actively manage the ball any more, there is no one more
interested in the success of the ball and in its every
detail.

Her friendship has been enjoyed by thousands and
her influence for good felt by every boy who has en-
joyed her friendship.

The writer so often talks with the present day
students about her and they are always so interested in
knowing of her wonderful kindnesses to the student
hody through thé years, and they so often say, “I’m
going down to see her and cultivate her friendship.”

It has been said that so few people today have
BALANCE. ‘They are either intolerant and unreason-
able or go to the other extreme of ultra modernism.
Sut Miss Annie has that rare virtue, BALANCE, or a
happy medium. For she combines the dignity and sta-
bility and worthwhileness of that past with the best of
the present day.

Her interests are so varied that she is an ideal con-
versationalist for either old or young.

Last, but not least, as a Christian, one must admire
Miss Annie, for no one is more interested in the work
of the church, both as applies to the spiritual and to the
humanitarian activities.

All in all, the writer considers Miss Annie White
Lexington’s most outstanding citizen and he also realizes
that anything that he might say is totally inadequate to
express the affection and admiration that her friends
everywhere feel for her.

A great and good woman, who has lived well and
we all wish her all happiness for now and for a long
time to come.

—HeEnry BOoLty

 

Rosert W. Davis, Jr., °30, after receiving his
M.S. degree from the University of Southern California
in June, went to Conroe, Texas, where he is engaged in
the oil business.

 

 

Ae We te Be

Mi AG: A Zoe oe

 

Extra-Curricular Journalism

OURNALISM students at Washington and Lee

this year are participating in an extra-curricular

program which is teaching them many practical

problems they have not found in the past in
classroom work.

Through a series of major exercises these students
are putting classroom theory into practice in an effort
to find out if eventually it will not be possible to con-
fine most of the teach-

This year’s extra-curricular program aims to give
journalism students at Washington and Lee a certain
amount of high-pressure, exacting laboratory work,
coupled with the opportunity to form their conception
of the American journalist. ‘To accomplish this the
program is in three parts: special laboratory problems :
contact with leading newspaper and magazine editors,
publishers and writers; and informal meetings tor

general journalistic

 

 

ing of so-called jour-
nalistic technique to
laboratory work and
to leave all lecture
periods open to work
out the correlation be-

 

tween journalism and
its kindred _ back-
eround subjects in the
academic school.

‘or the last three
years Washington and
Lee has been commit-
ted to the theory that
schools of journalism
should not turn out
hnished newspaper
workers, but, instead,
should train students
for newspaper work.
As the
part of this theory goes the premise that to do most

important

for a student the journalism school should require of
him a sound background in history, economics, govern-
ment, language, literature, science, and the ologies,
with just enough newspaper practice or tricks of the
trade, to get him started on a job once he is out of
college.

“We wish to spend this year, next year, and pos-
sibly the one after that working out our ideal journalism
curriculum,” William lL. Mapel, director of journalism
said. “Of one thing we are certain: At Washington
and ee we are not going to try to turn out finished
newspaper men. We'd rather spend our time and the
time of our students giving them a broader understand-
ing of fundamental knowledge so necessary for good
writing, editing, and publishing. We wish to give
them a certain amount of practical work, but we're
in doubt as to the proper percentage. ‘This we hope to
learn from experimentation with the extra-curricular
program now in operation.”

[ 19

 

Messrs. Gaines, Young, and Mapel discuss the cover of the Alumni
Magazine. Note journalistic paneling ,on office walls.

discussion.

Three problems
have been worked out
this year. The first
was in connection
with the Washington
and lee - Maryland

 

football game Octo-
ber 22, 1932. At this
time the students pub-
lished a special sports
extra, called the Five
Star Final.
a tabloid size news-

This was

paper, covering foot-
ball only. One student
was sent to cover the
Virginia- V. M. I.
game in Lexington,
another to cover the
Vier,

eame at Blacksburg, Va., and two others to edit a run-

I. - Kentucky

ning story of the Washington and Lee game.

Through the courtesy of member newspapers near
lexington, the Associated Press ran a wire to Lexing-
ton for the occasion, and journalism students edited and
condensed the thousands of words of football news
which came this way. While one group was editing the
copy, another was reading proof, and a third was mak-
ing up the newspaper, which was circulated in Lexing-
ton at 8 o'clock in the evening.

The second problem was worked out November
Sth, when journalsim students gave an Election Party in
Doremus gymnasium.

‘Twenty-eight students helped gather and dissemi-
nate election news for.a crowd of between 1600 and
2000 students, faculty members, and citizens of Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge county who assembled at the
gymnasium. One room in the building was trans-
formed into a news office where all returns, local
as well as national, were tabulated, charted and

|

LL A. dee ee oe

compiled by members of the senior class in jour-
nalism.

Kight students operated a battery of typewriters
which turned out slides of election bulletins. ‘These
slides were shown on a stereopticon screen, with three
students operating the machine, and others acting as
copy boys, messengers, and ushers.

Three students were stationed at radios, to tele-
phone bulletins. ‘wo others worked on the editing
of reports received for six hours over a special leased
wire.

Journalism seniors were sent to each precinct
but one in Rockbridge county to telephone precinct
votes to the news office in the gymnasium.

The party lasted from 7 p. m. until well after mid-
night, and furnished visitors far more comprehensive
coverage of the election than they were able to find in
their newspapers the next morning.

The third project occupied two weeks in January.
In an effort to determine just how much the depres-
sion has affected the town and citizens of Lexington,
journalism students asked hundreds of questions from
I.exingtonians in all walks of life. Bankers, business
men, life insurance agents, motion picture show propri-
etors, professors, and others were interviewed. Grocers
told of average monthly bills, real estate agents told of
house rentals. Housewives told of wages paid help.
The whole thing was pieced together as a paper which
nay be published later.

live newspaper men, one magazine editor, and
one author have come to Washington and Lee this year
to speak to and visit with journalism students. ‘The
first of these was Harry Costello, sports writer for the
Hearst papers in Washington. ‘The second was Wil-
lard M. Kiplinger, Washington correspondent and eco-
nomic analyst. Then came George Pierrot, managing
editor of The American Boy magazine. After him
came Carl H. Claudy, magazine contributor and author
of twenty-three books. He was followed by Lee A
White of the editorial staff of the Detroit News; Maj.
Powell Glass, associate publisher of the Lynchburg
News; and David Lawrence, publisher of the United
States Daily and president of the Consolidated Press
association.

Among those who will visit the school are: H. B.
Trundle, business manager of the Danville, Va., Regis-
ter-Bye; Robert Lane and Carl D. Ruth, Washington
newspaper correspondents; James A. Stuart, managing
editor of the Indianapolis News; and Cranston Wil-
liams, secretary-manager of the Southern Newspaper
Publishers’ association.

As a special project, one of the journalism seniors
is preparing a directory of Washington and Lee gradu-

I

DA eee ee ee ee

ates and former students who are now engaged in the
practice of journalism. A former issue of the Almnni
Magazine asked that alumni of the school now in news-
paper, magazine, or advertising work please report the
fact to the Alumni secretary. Some alumni evidently
misunderstood the matter and thought the directory
would be of men who have taken work in the depart-
ment of journalism. Such is not the case. This is not a
departmental project. The aim is to have record of all
Washington and Lee men in journalism. Any alumnus
who is so engaged will be helping make the directory
complete if he will communicate with the Alumni sec-
retary. Perhaps some subscribers of this magazine
know alumni who are not subscribers but who are en-
gaged in journalism. Names of such men are sought.

Informal meetings of journalism students are held
at least once each week. Usually these meetings take
the form of Monday-night forums, at which the stu-
dents and teachers of journalism talk about any sub-
ject brought forward. No effort is made to give formal
instruction at these times, the idea of informality of
both subject and discussion being uppermost.

‘ys . . . .

"he formal journalism curriculum leading to the
Certificate in Journalism with the A. B. degree re-
ceived modification shortly after the Christmas holi-
days when the necessity for strong background was
stressed by cutting required journalism courses to make
room for advanced work in history, economics, and

. . . rye . . . . .

political science. This modification received virtually
unanimous praise from fifty newspaper editors and
publishers to whom the plan was submitted in advance.

Hand in’ hand with this year’s curricular
readjustment came physical improvements in quarters
of the journalism department. Chief among these
was the refurnishing and redecorating of the office of
the director of journalism. Patterned after the Na-
tional Press Club in Washington, walls of the office
now bear bronzed replicas of eighty American news-
paper front pages. Walls are panelled in wood to
a height of about forty inches, and from there to the
ceiling are the bronzed pages, also in panels.

Material for furnishing and redecorating the office
was given to the journalism department by the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, profes-
sional journalistic fraternity.

 

Rev. Wu. McELwee MItter, ’13, after a furlough
in the United States has returned to his work as a mis-
sionary of the Presbyterian Church in Teheran, Persia.

 

FRANK A. NeEtson, '93, of Chattanooga, Tenn.,
spent the holidays in Lexington with his sister, Miss
I:velyn Nelson.

[ 20 ]

 

At det Bae ea

I

Mii Beer A 2 Eom Be

Meetings Among the Alumni Groups

Jacksonville, Florida

January 16, 1933
Mr. Cy Young,
Washington and Lee Alumni,
Lexington, Virginia.
Dear Cy:

| went to meet Dr. Gaines ‘Tuesday morning last
and of course as I had never had the pleasure of meet-
ing him before, I was somewhat at a loss to know how
to pick him out from the crowd. I employed a tele-
graph boy to go through the train and see if he could
locate him, while I waited at the exit gate. Of course
I knew that Dr. Gaines was a comparatively young man
and although I didn’t expect to see any gray-bearded,
white-haired gentleman, I could not help but conjure
up in my mind a picture of the comic version of the
college professor. When I saw the boy returning with
this young, well-built gentleman, I thought to myself,
“Well, that boy has made a mistake,” and I was in fear
of not only missing the real Dr. Gaines, but I also
would have to explain away an embarrassing situation.
I was certainly surprised to find that he was the college
president. I might add that as I got to know him bet-
ter, I was quite delightfully surprised. I think him a
very remarkable gentleman and IT really enjoyed seeing
as much of him as IT did, while he was here.

We had a luncheon at the Carling Hotel at one
o’clock on Tuesday, as planned, and had some twenty-
odd alumni to meet Dr. Gaines, all of whom were
unanimous in their enthusiasm about Dr. Gaines and
his work at Washington and Lee. I think we all felt
that the school is in very capable hands.

T enclose herewith a list of the names of those who
were present.

Robert A. Baker, 96, 304 Atlantic National Bank
suilding: Wm. Bours Bond, ’30, P. O. Box 195; In-
man P. Crutchfield, ’14. Bisbee Building: L. L. Daugh-
erty, ’21. Graves Lumber Co.: Henry W. Dew. ’11.
Room 1415 Barnett Natl. Bank Bldg.: Harry B. Foz-
zard, ’°29, 3723 Richmond St.: H. L. Fink, 710, Graham
Bldg. ; Judge Geo. C. Gibbs, ’03, care of Circuit Court:
Tas. P. Hill, ’20, Atlantic National Bank Bldg.: Lonnie
D. Howell. ’05, County Solicitor, Criminal Ct. Realty
Bldg.: R. L. Hutchinson, °12, Law Exchange Bldg.:
Louis S. Joel. ’25, Graham Bldg. : Robert C. Lester, ’26,
2116 Phyllis St.; Harvey M. Mabry, ’21, 801 Bisbee
Bldg. ; Reuben Ragland, ’09, 606-12 Consolidated Bldg. ;
Tharpe S. Roberts, Jr., ’26, 902 Riverside Ave. ; Monta-

mt

gue Rosenberg, 30, 212 Graham Bldg.; B. B. Shields,
‘06, 211 Bisbee Bldg.; Herman S$. Ulmer, °15, 712 Bar-
nett Bldg.; Frederick M. Valz, 11, Lynch Bldg.; Rev.
Raymond G. Wickersham, ’23, 834 Laurel St.; Damon
G. Yerkes, ‘12, Barnett National Bank Bldg.; Rhydan
C. Latham, ’28, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

After the luncheon I drove Dr. Gaines to St. Au-
gustine and delivered him to his host there.

I do hope that he enjoyed his stay with the Jack-
sonville Alumni a little.

With best personal regards to you.

Fraternally,
Ruypon LATHAM

 

New York City

THE ANNUAL Dinner of the New York Alumni
Association was held at the St. Regis Hotel Friday
night, November 25, 1932. Honorable John W. Davis
presided at the meeting and in his usual interesting and
charming manner delivered a brief address to the as-
sembly. The retiding President, Mr. E. M. Millen,
asked for a report from the nominating committee.
The committee, through its chairman, Mr. Joseph T.
Lykes, submitted the following men to serve as officers
for 1932-33:

Milton B. President; Clarence L.
Sager, ‘14, Vice-President; and Edward W. Lee, ‘13,
Secreatary-Treasurer.

For Council: C. T. Chenery, 09; E. W. Poin-
dexter, ’23; John W. Davis, 94; and Francis T. Cole,

18.

Rogers, ‘17,

The above were declared unanimously elected.

Mr. Meem, President of the V. M. I. Alumni
Association of New York City, was introduced and
gave a talk on the relationship existing between the
two institutions.

Mr. Frank Gilliam, representing the University
and Dean of Students was introduced to the association
by the President, Mr. Millen. Mr. Gilliam told of his
work at the University and the general professional
methods now emplolyed to bring about closer feeling
hetween the students and the University.

Immediately following the dinner Mr. J. C.
Thorne, President of the St. Regis, entertained a small
group in the Egyptian Room. ‘Those present were:

John W. Davis, ’92; Frank Gilliam; EK. M. Millen ;
Chas. Kupper; C. L. Sager; Joseph Lykes; Edward
W. Lee.

J

i. ee Boe ee

I

a eee PR oe od ee

 

The New York District Alumni present at the din-
were :

Nelson W. Burris, ‘26; Simeon Hyde, °13; Walter
H. Wilcox, ’29; Francis ‘I’. Cole, °18; George T. Hol-
brook, ’23; Dr. Wm. Elliot Dold, ‘76;Robert Lee, ’29;
A. J. Leibowitz, °31; Haven Walton, ’32; Wm. E.
Johnston, ’20; H. D. St. John, ’25; George B. Under-
wood; Leigh D. Bulluch, ‘26; Eli M. Millen, ‘05; Em-
mett W. Poindexter, ’23; Chas. Kupfer, ‘19; A. V.
Adamson, 09; B. Yoepp. Jr., °29.

Raymond Smith, ‘22; O. Norris Smith, ’29; Dr.
Dan Blain, ’21; James FE. Lee, 17; John EK. Armstrong,
31; F. W. Urmey, ’27; G. Carlton Walters, ’26; W.
Kugene McLean, ‘22; Clarence L. Sager, °14; George
H. Lanier, Jr., 19; Allen Harris, Jr., ’27; Robert K.
Williams, ‘13; Wm. A. Hyman, °12; Judge Dallas
Flannigan, “88; L. T. Brown, 19; W. R. Burton, °17;
Rk. KK. Tyrell, "19; Nathaniel Cooper, ’27.

ner

 

Atlanta, Georgia

January 10, 1933
Mr. Harry K. Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
lexington, Virginia.
Dear Cy:

Dr. Gaines spent yesterday with us in Atlanta, as
scheduled, and we enjoyed very much seeing him again.
He spent his morning visiting among the alumni and his
afternoon interviewing several prospective students and
their parents, with results that look favorable.

An informal luncheon was held at 12:30, at the
Frances Virginia ‘Tea Room, at which the following
alumni were present:

William Winston Gaines, 91, 207 National Bank
Building ; Alex M. Hitz, °12, 1413 Citizens and South-
ern National Bank Building; Ewing S$. Humphreys, °10,
Healey Building; W. P. Lamar, ’03, Muscogee Avenue ;
‘dmund Magers, °16, care State Auditior, State Capi-
tol; Walter McElreath, 92, 304 Grant Building; May-
nard B. Smith, ’12, 304 Westminster Drive; T. Mac
Stubbs, ’20, 1040 Hurt Building; Bland Terry, °12, 215
Peachtree Street; O. M. Wellslager, Jr., ’27, care New
York Life Insurance Co.; Bruce F. Woodruff, °16, 401
Trust Company of Georgia Building; Sam W. Smith,
(formerly Charlotte, N. C.), care Lee Tire and Rub-
ber Company, 312 Spring Street; A. F. Cantrell,
Rome, Georgia; W. F. Barron, Rome, Georgia; Leo
Fahy (formerly New Mexico), Rome, Georgia.

I consider this an excellent attendance, due to the
fact that the meeting was a luncheon meeting and held
on a Monday, and we were particularly pleased that

[ 22

  
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   

several of the Rome, Georgia, alumni came up to be
with us.

I presided at the meeting, due to the fact that Bun
ny Humphreys claims to have retired as President, and
besides, was having some dental work done, that tem
porarily incapacitated his speech-making ability.

Dr. Gaines made a brief talk, outlining items of
interest to the alumni and progress that the Universit
was making in spite of the depression. He stresse
primarily, that the alumni could do more at the present
time by furnishing desirable applicants for admissio
into the freshman class than by any other means. He
also went into the athletic situation and the meeting
broke up into a general round table discussion of vari
cus topics.

Incidentally, I discussed with Willie Barron, of
Rome, the proposition of organizing a State-wide alum
ni association, with supporting subscriptions to the
alumni magazine and Alumni, Incorporated, along the
lines proposed by you and Walter McDonald on the
occasion of your visit here. He agreed with me that
the best method to adopt was by personal solicitatio
‘rather than calling of a meeting for that purpose and
said that he felt sure he could secure in Rome four of
five annual subscriptions of at least $5.00 each. Ia
writing him further, but I wish you would write me
again and reiterate, briefly, the general plan outlined
by yourself and Walter, particularly as to the club price
for the magazine. Iam afraid this is going to be a one-
man job on my part, for, as you know, Bunny, Bil
Ward, and myself, generally work together, but it loo
like of late that both Bunny and Bill have had to be out
of town a good part of their time, but I will do my best
as a one-man proposition, although my progress ma
be necessarily slow.

You might change your alumni list with reference
to Wiley W. Taylor, ’22, as he is removing from At
lanta to Wheeling, W. Virginia.

With cordial regards, I am,

Sincerely
Bruce F. Wooprurr

 

Philadelphia, Penn.

December 12, 1932.

Mr. H. K. “Cy” Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University
lexington Virginia.
Dear “Cy”:

The following men enthusiastically adopted by-
laws formally instituting an active chapter of Wash
ington and Lee Alumni in Philadelphia: Holmes, Wil

|

, H E AS tae.

I

M ate A 2 2 2

 

——

son, lutwiler, Boogher, Axellroth, Johnson, Hallman,
Sawkins, Baker, Robert, Kllis, and Bready. ‘These
(Generals were undaunted because of traffic tie-ups.
Election of officers then took place with this result:
President, Wilson; Vice-President, Holmes ; Secretary-
reasurer, Bready ; Board of Managers, Boogher, John-
son, Raines, Robert, and Everett. So much for the
formal part of the meeting.

Otherwise, the session lasted from 1:30 until
4 o'clock without a dull moment. Everything that
had transpired previous to this occasion was detailed
to the men, Mr. Holmes reporting the visit made by
Mr. McDonald and yourself this summer. Some dif-
ference of opinion rose as to the number of meetings
to be held in the future but it was finally decided to
leave the matter to the board of managers. Expres-
sions of regret were heard over the news of Dr. Gran-
ville Campbell’s death ; and a telegram from Dr. Gaines
arrived right in the midst of discussion and brought
cheers and much pleasure to those who heard it,read.
Harry Robert, ’22, feature writer in the sports depart-
ment of the Evening Bulletin, told us what’s wrong with
the football team but we all decided that since DeHart
beat Virginia everything was O.K. It was decided to
send special letters to the Alumni in this district who
were unable to attend and Mr. Johnson, 11, kindly
offered the services of his secretary for the stenographic
work involved. Mr. Axelroth, ’07, told us some stories
about Dean Moreland with whom he attended law
school while ‘“‘Wirt’” Tutwiler, classmate of Newton
Baker, also had some interesting tales to tell.

The Alumni Magazines you so kindly sent were a
revelation to all and were carefully read and some dif-
ficulty was found in the fact that several men wanted to
take them home and since we only had two the fol-
lowing decided to subscribe for their own copies, com-
missioning their humble secretary to do the ordering
for them: Holmes, Wilson, Sawkins, Robert, and Axel-
roth (new subscriptions to start at once) ; Johnson and
Boogher (renewals); Bready (subscription to start
September 1933). In the letters we are sending out
we are emphasizing the Magazine and so hope for more
orders from that source.

It was also desired that you inform us just what
steps are necessary in order for us to affiliate with the
Alumni, Inc., parent organization.

And that, “Cy”, is just about all that I have to tell
or ask you at the present time. I hope that from the
information you may have gleaned some better know-
ledge of the situation here in Philly. Let me say that
your perfect, absolute cooperation in our affairs
has been more important than any other single item in
the progress that has been made so far and, believe me,

it is sincerely appreciated. ‘The men here feel the need
for organization and all they need is a shove, that shove
having come right from you. Our motto is slow but
sure and for the first time I feel able to say that things,
while not by any means perfect, are tending towards
that stage ; while permanency, barring unforeseen devel-
opments, seems assured.

Thank you again and again for all that you have
done for us.

FRANK T. BREADY

 

Lynchburg, Virginia

On JANvAry 19th forty or more Washington and
Lee University alumni of Lynchburg and_ vicinity
heard talks on campus, classroom and athletic activities
at their alma mater, speakers representative of each
phase making brief talks on the occasion of the annual
banquet of Lynchburg chapter of the alumni associa-
tion.

Speakers were Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students ;
H. K. (Cy) Young, alumni secretary and basketball
coach; Richard A. (Dick) Smith, graduate manager
of athletics, and W. E. (Tex) Tilson, newly chosen
football coach.

Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, 1913, was elected president
to succeed ‘I’. G. Woodson, who had held the office for
two years. John S. Caskie, 1924, was chosen vice-
president and A. L. Burger, 1902, was reelected sec-
retary-treasurer.

Dean Gilliam told of the work of his office, ex-
plaining his contact with students and the faculty ad-
visor system in operation at Washington and Lee. He
said the student body has decreased very little during
the period of the depression, told of economies effected
and assured the alumni that the integrity of education
had not been lowered one iota in spite of the difficulties
experienced financially. Nor has the standard of ad-
mission been lowered in the slightest degree, he said.

Secretary Young told the plan being formulated
to make the alumni association self-supporting and
spoke briefly of the basketball team and the game with
the University of Virginia to be played in Lynchburg
Saturday night.

Graduate Manager Smith, introduced by Fred
McWane, told of the alumni coaching system just
inaugurated, spoke in praise of retiring Coach DeHart,
and explained some of the difficulties of schedule mak-
ing. He said that though financially there are dit-
ficulties, no sport would be dropped.

Coach ‘Tilson, introduced by Basil Watkins, spoke
briefly, saying that next year he hopes to be able to

[ 23 ]

jie eR: A Le aeeM. N

I

MA mG! AO Ne

 

talk of the past football season with as much interest
as he now speaks of future seasons.

Mr. Kirkpatrick, assuming his duties, suggested
that alumni take more interest in Washington and Lee
and in sending to the university students who would be
a credit scholastically and in campus activities as well
as in athletics.

Brief talks were made by alumni on request of
President Woodson, James EF. Caskie of the board of
trustees urging the alumni to give careful consideration
to the plan of the association to become self-sustaining.

The following alumni were present at the meeting :

R. Max Barker, ’22; H. S. Bryant, ’20; A. L.
Surger, 02; Chas. KE. Burks, °10; Jas. R. Caskie, ’09;
J. S. Caskie, ’24; C. Lynch Christian, 16; N. C. Evans,
16; Thos. W. Gilliam, °19; Carter Glass, Jr., °13;
Henry B. Glass, 15; Robert C. Glass, ’07; 5. Garland
Hamner, °'27; Fanning Hearon, ’27; Thos. S. Kirk-
patrick, °13; Irving M. Lynn, °19; William W. Lynn,
Jr., ‘22; Joseph P. McCarron, °10; Frederick W. Mc-
Wane, 13; W. W. Manley, Jr., ’24; Maurice Moore,
‘95; John Mosby, ’31; Jas. T. Noell, ’90.

Dr. S. E. Oglesby, 15; Ashton Powell, ’22; Rob-
ert D. Ramsey, "14; Cornelius M. Roberts, 94; B. T.
Smith, 08; W. T. Spencer, ’24; Kenneth Routon, °32;
B. G. Watkins, ’26; Samuel H. Williams, °14; R. C.
Wood, ’21; E. M. Wood, Jr., —; T. Gipson Wood-
son, 17; R. A. Russell, Rustburg, Va.; Jerry Burke,

Appomattox, Va. —Lynchburg News

 

Louisville, Kentucky

A croup of thirty alumni in Louisville observed
Founders’ Day by attending a banquet at the Ken-
tucky Hotel. R. P. Hobson presided with his usual
efficiency. We sang the Swing and gave a spirited
Generals’ yell. The toastmaster read a telegram of
greetings from alumnus, Goy. Ruby Laffoon. A letter
from Mr. H. A. Watkins, of the Class of 1881, was
also read. Mr. Hobson expressed his appreciation for
the fine work being done by President Gaines, es-
pecially in welding the alumni together.

We were quite fortunate to have Dr. Walter A.
Flick to make a special trip to Louisville to address
us. All listened intently to his message. We were
anxious to hear the University’s problems and_ the
splendid manner in which they are being solved. We
resolved to accept his challenge by trying to secure
boys of high caliber to send to Washington and Lee.

Mr. John J. Davis, of the Class of 1892, empha-
sized that Washington and lee was a character build-
ing institution in his days and has remained that way

[ 24 |

   

throughout his forty years of contact with his Alma
Mater.

Henry K. Hill, of the Class of 1925, was elected
president and George E. Burks, of the Class of 1927,
was elected secretary. Plans were made to secure bet-
ter publicity for Washington and Lee in Louisville.

The following men were present: E. G. Barker,
‘26; R. A. Bate, ’28; Charles Hibbitt Blake, ’32;
Arthur P. Bondurant, ’28; Geo. FE. Burks, ‘27; Wm.
I’, Chandler, ‘29; Oldham Clarke, ’28; J. G. Davis, '30;
John J. Davis, "92; Edward A. Dodd, ’26; Robert Ty
Foree, Jr., °27; R. L. Gordon, ’26; Henry K. Hill, Jr.,
‘25; Jos. B. Hill, °26; R. P. Hobson, °17; W. L. Hoge,
‘06; Edward G. Isaacs, Jr., °25; Joseph J. Kaplan, °28;
Murrel H. Kaplan, °30; Murrel D. Klein, ’25; W. C,
Magruder, Jr., "28; Edward Matz, ’24; J. W. May,
Jr.. "16; David McCandless, Jr., °27; Chas. D. Mercke,
29; Claggett Offutt, 25; H. Edward Rietze, Jr., ‘259
Kf, A. Sampson, ‘03; Arthur Tabb, ‘04; and James N
Veech, °93. !

After singing College Friendships all of us agreec
we had attended the most successful Founders’ Day ban-
quet ever held in Louisville.

GrEorGE EK. Burks,
Secretary.

R.-M.W. C. Girls Guests at Game

Asout 250 girls from Randolph-Macon Woman's
College, Lynchburg, attended the Washington and Lee-
Maryland football game as guests of the student body.
They arrived in a number of large busses and courtesies
were exchanged at the game with yells by the boys ane
singing of the “Swing” by the girls. After the game
they attended a tea dance in the gymnasium whic
was followed by a supper, also held in the gymnasium.

 

 

Joe Hobson, '20, in Partnership

ANNOUNCEMENT has been received of the forma
tion of a new partnership by Edward P. Hill and Joe
Hobson, '20, for the general practice of law under the
firm name of Hill and Hobson with offices on the sec
ond floor of the Morell Building, Prestonsburg, Ken
tucky.

 

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. White, Jr. of Roswell, N. M.
announce the birth of J. P. White, II]. Mr. White
is of the class of 1927.

 

Mr. and Mrs. Gilmore Nunn announce the birt
of Betsy Townsend Nunn. Mr. Nunn is of the class
of 1931.

T H E AE tp eet oy

I

Oe eee ee oe

 

——EEaE~"

A Passing Review of Recent Happenings

By EKuceneE N. S. Grrarp

DECEMBER 1—Dr. Stowe, of the geology depart-
ment, was elected president of the Washington and
Lee Rifle club in its first meeting of the year. Neil
Meredith was chosen secretary-treasurer and H. R.
Kelley, vice-president.

December 2—The Athletic Council announced that
Washington and Lee sports teams will again elect cap-
tains. or the past three years acting captains have
been appointed by the coaches before each game.

December 3—Dr. Reinhold Neibuhr, editor of the
Iorld Tomorrow and prominent advocate of interna-
tional peace, made the main address at the university
general assembly. His topic was “Science and Re-
ligion.” |

December 5—A contract bridge tournament for
the benefit of the Red Cross got under way with
eighteen two-men teams entered.

December 6—Twenty-four varsity
were awarded in football and twenty-six members of
the freshman squad will receive numerals. John Dean
was selected junior manager of football and Stewart
Buxton will serve as alternate.

monograms

December 7—Twenty-two men were initiated into
White Friars and twenty-four into Pi Alpha Nu, sopho-
more ribbon societies.

December 8—The bill for deferred fraternity rush-
ing on the Washington and Lee campus was voted down
by the Inter-fraternity Council. A second, modified
bill was presented and tabled for the time.

December 9—David Lawrence, publisher of the
United States Daily, was the guest of honor at a lunch-
eon meeting of Sigma Delta Chi, honorary journalistic
fraternity.

Dr. J. Shelton Horsely, Richmond, Va., gave an
illustrated lecture on cancer in the gymnasium before a
large number of students and faculty.

December 10—Jack Jarrett and Paul Holbrook
Were elected co-captains of the Washington and Lee
basketball team for the 1933 season.

December 12—An outbreak of influenza at V. M. T.
and the increased number of cases among Washington
and Lee students caused the faculty in its ineeting to-
day to announce that the Christmas holidays will start
after the last class on Tuesday, the 13th, instead of
Saturday.

At a faculty
Neeting one new regulation regarding absences before

January 2—School officially opened.

[ 25

and after vacations and revision of several old regula-
tions were adopted.

January 3—Warren E. (Tex) ‘Tilson, former
Washington and Lee athletic star, was appointed head
football coach. Cy Young will act as associate coach.

January +—Walter J. Pound was elected captain
of the varsity boxing team for the coming season.

January 5—Bernie Cummins and His New York-
ers, who will play for the Fancy Dress set on January
26, 27 and 28, announced he would make several radio
salutes to Washington and lee from the ‘Trianon Ball-
room in Chicago over station WGN.

January 6-—The Washington and Lee varsity bas-
ketball team defeated St. Johns College of Annapolis,
51-29.

January 7—Clarence P. Lee, ’33 M.A., was award-
ed the Rhodes Scholarship from Arkansas. He is the
fourth Washington and Lee student to receive this
award.

January 9—The Washington and Lee boxing team
opened its season by tieing the University of Mary-
land, 4-4.

January 10—-V. P. I. defeated Washington and Lee
in a varsity basketball game at Blacksburg, 34-31.

January 11—Lambda Chi Alpha, represented by
Ross Crom and Frank Price, won the inter-fraternity
debate tournament from Payne and Thomas, Pi Kappa
Alpha.

January 12—The Washington and Lee wrestling
team won its first meet of the season, defeating North
Carolina State, 23-5.

In the evening the boxing team beat State, 5-3.

January 13—The Washington and Lee Glee Club
issued a collection of nine songs pertaining to Wash-
ington and Lee University. John A. Graham, director
of the club, collected the pieces and wrote music for
several of them.

January 14—The Washington and Lee basketball
team beat Maryland 43-40, in a Southern Conference
game.

Janaruy 16—Mid-year examinations started.

January 17—Second day of examinations—movie
attendance greatly increased.

January 18—Third day of examinations—coca
cola and sandwich sales increase.

 

 

 

January 19—Henry W. Anderson, Richmond, de-
livered the principal address: at the Founders’ Day
assembly.

A. by eee as oN

I

Mp Ay Gi. Ae. ae

 

 

OBITUARY

GEORGE G. GREGG, ’19

GEORGE G. GREGG, prominent Greensburg, Pa., at-

 

 

 

torney, died suddenly at his home, Thursday, Decem-
1932.

George Gregg was born in Greensburg, Pa., De-

ber 1,

cember 29, 1895, and was educated in the local graded
and high school. Iater he attended the Augusta Mili-
tary Institute. He
received both his
A.B. and LL.B.
degrees from
Washington and
Lee. After grad-
uation he entered
upon the practice
of his profession
in the law offices
of his father.

In 1917 when
the United States
declared war,
young Gregg vol-
unteered for ser-
vice in the Army,
Navy and Marine
Corps. On ac-
count of a heart
condition he was
rejected, but afterwards he entered the service of the
Medical Corps.

He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
and Phi Delta Phi

 

George G. Gregg, 719

fraternities.

 

THOMAS JACKSON ARNOLD, ’67

THOMAS JACKSON ARNOLD, Sr., 87, a nephew of
General Thomas (Stonewall) Jackson, died at his home
at Arnold Hill, near Elkins, W. Va., Tuesday, January
10, 1933.

Arnold was collector of the port of San Diego,
California, under President Cleveland for two years
until President Harrison took office.

Born at Beverly, November 3, 1845, the son of
Jonathan and Laura Ann (Jackson) Arnold, he came
at the age of 12 to live at Lexington with his uncle,
Major Jackson,
Confederacy.

He studied
at Washington

afterward the famous general of the

law at Elkins and later took a degree

and Lee University. He began his

[ 26 |

——

practice at Elkins in 1868, and was elected prosecuting
attorney of Randolph County three years later.

Mr. Arnold moved to San Diego, California, in
1880 and practiced law there until 1886 when he was
appointed collector of the port.

He is survived by his wife, Eugenia Hill Arnold,
daughter of Lieutenant General D. H. Hill of Lexing-
ton, a Confederate officer, and three sons.—Reprint
from the Rockbridge County News, January 12, 1933,

 

CLIFTON R.

Hon. Criirron R.
dor to Russia under

BRECKENRIDGE, ’69

3RECKENRIDGE, *69, Ambassa-
President Cleveland, a member
of Congress from Arkansas for six terms, died at
Wendover, Ky., December 3, 1932.
of Gen. John C. Breckenridge, vice-president of the
United States.
most of his public career.

He was a son

His home was in Arkansas during
or the past eight years
he made his home with his daughter, Mrs. Mary
Breckenridge at Wendover, Ky.

Mr. Breckenridge was born in Lexington, Ky,
He served as a private in the Confederate army dur-
ing the War between the States, and was transferred)
to the Confederate navy. He was a student at Wash-
ington College while General Lee was its president.

In 1870 he moved to Arkansas and became a cot-
ton planter. He was married in 1876 to Catherine B.
Carson, of Memphis, who died several years ago.
He was elected to Congress in 1883, and was ap-
pointed ambassador to Russia in 1894. He served
at St. Petersburg for three years.

 

   
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  

REV. WM. PENDLETON STUART, ’98

Rev. WILLIAM PENDLETON STUART, ’98, died De=
cember 13, 1932, at his home in Elizabethton, Ky.
Pneumonia was the cause of his death.

Dr. Stuart was in charge of the Baptist chureh
at Hampton, Virginia, for eight years and had served
in the ministry in Elizabethton previous to that times

He was a graduate of Washington and Lee of the
class of 1898, and of the Baptist Theological Seminary

in Louisville, Kentucky. He is survived by his widow

 

MASON MILLER SPROUL, ’29

Mason MILLER Sprout, ’29, died at his home ttt
Staunton, Va., January 12, 1933, from double pneu
monia, following a slight attack of influenza.

He was the son of Hugh B. Sproul and Agnes
Miller Sproul.
ber of the Board of Trustees of the University.

His father was for many years a mem
His
sudden death in September 1929, was a great shock t@
everyone connected with the institution,

. Hoe A ae oN

I

Me eee A ee

 

Mason Sproul was born July 26, 1906. He re-
ceived his early education in the Staunton schools and
Augusta Military Academy. He entered Washington
and Lee in the fall of 1925; became a member of the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, and played freshman foot-
hall. He played varsity football in ’27 and ’28. He
was active in all university affairs and popular with his
fellow-students.

In his home town he had begun to display many
of those sound business qualifications tor which his

father was noted.

Ring-tum Phi Staff Announced

EprroriAL staff assistants for The Ring-tum Phi
were announced December 9th, by John A. Culley, edi-
tor-in-chief. Several new titles were introduced and the
staff has been divided into departments which will en-
able it to give the best service.

William Barker, Delta Upsilon, and a senior in the
journalism department, was named associate editor.
He served as sports editor last year, is a member of
Sigma Delta Chi and is pledged to Pi Delta Epsilon,
both journalistic fraternities. Two juniors, Frank
Young, Alpha Tau Omega, and John Dexter, Beta
Theta Pi, were chosen assistant editors. Managing

 

 

*“McCRUM’S”

As Always The Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI
Si DAN iS
AND
FRIENDS
Of
_ Washington and Lee

UNEXCELLED FOUNTAIN SERVICE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

editors are H. M. Shaw, S. P. E., and Herbert Rudlin.
DeForest Clark, Lambda Chi Alpha, will act as sports
editor. He is a senior in the journalism department
and a pledge of Sigma Delta Chi.

 

Winter Sports
(Continued from page thirteen)

It is too early to make predictions about freshman
sports. However, after scanning the material and see-
ing the quantity and apparent quality, it looks like the
vearlings will put up a record that will compare fav-
orably with any of the past years. Freshman enthusi-
asm is running as high as ever over their teams. As
the basis for future varsity material, the athletic de-
partment is anxious to develop the first year team to
the highest degree. Freshman coaches are: Cy ‘'wom-
bly, basketball and swimming; Mathis, wrestling; and
Tilson, boxing.

 

Hon. Herpert EF. Hannis, °10, was re-elected
Prosecuting Attorney for Berkeley County, W. Va., by
a handsome majority. Mr. Hannis was running on
the Republican ticket but his ability and popularity car-
ried him through a Democratic landslide.

 

BOLEY’S
BOOK STORE

SPECIAL

Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x9, prepaid......$1.50

General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid...... 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid............ 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7x9, prepaid.......... 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

[ 27 |

2 se A Dee A a Re eee Se RO ee

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

cards in the directory. Rates on application.

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE GIBSON WITHERSPOON EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18-’22
: ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAW YER
204-208 Lawyers Building Douglas, Obear and Douglas
Atlantic City, New Jersey Meridian, Mississippi Southern Bldg., Washington, D. C.
BLANK & STOLLER, Inc. JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Rhotogranheny at aaen ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Official Photographers for the
Alumni Magazine Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building

227 E. 45th St., New York

19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Ill. Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

 

 

John H. Tucker, Jr., °10
Malehitmenté ot TUCKER AND MASON

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE LAW OFFICES
BR ARE ae. 90 Commercial National Bank Building

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSON
Seal and Dice GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
AS ae , | i Lewisburg, West Virginia
General practice in the courts of the Suite 301 Bank of America Building
District of Columbia and Federal oe
H. B. Moore, Principal

ee ete ee 625 Market St., San Francisco, Cal.

Associate Income Tax Specialists 'J. M. Moore, 08, Assistant Principal

Telephone EXbrook 0237

Tower Building, Washington, D. C.

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and
Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally
good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

[24

 

ey v ee

¥ ‘ ‘ 7
Ween

he oe Penh 04

*) 7 ‘ a ie

oe bets, f
ql t- . <
¥ > xa ly
ar ‘ * HSS A+4
sO Pio Snes: ER ANTS wha ass
7 Oy bee Cresty iad a
; ie <* Pa ae Aa. ,5 r i vs ik
espns e ” ;
Pr P Pe nie uber IP OG a
3 phn eee re at ny aha
brat ies ,
(ey yee ster
sAcse
edad aa

.
is
cn 4
od z
)

ha

Ey PR eg
Re Aa
Lan ae
SY cies A

fy :

rer hnest
Sarr hie

ie

pial VO
5 CVE han pe ree

’ ?
cay 4

een?
ety

US ahah eee
SRK ges ora
BA CTARRAY “aaanee G,

+ yo

vf

¥ a

D

Wi ‘ A

‘ uy i CU OA AES AED 25 a

ba re va ee wale: 5 py
oo Pe . } vs ie i oF . ae Ens i F wi Vv
‘‘ , oi A z ' , 0 ae ay
Rites CaN Se ae
PMs na ts xitecien eee ee IN
a) tak Bore Sty ¢ Gas 2 ie VRE N
+ sy we va had ; PM

HSA eayt

Oe SREP
BA haart Otte OS
SORTS '

4
ixtactare
RKC Tay eA
Ry bead: Wee we ew ee
‘ ke Ret yy: i ’ ie
ay Cee
4 nap Paty Vins eee RARE) * 5 ae
ee OSy BY a ; De te yaya t (o :
Wie eae, ma
>, ch i v OOS e OF
: paar

os ;
ons j is 4 : ,
‘ yi a "2 A 5 a

is fi ne AS fyi ne Fe ~ _

Wed bey ey > y

ea hye SEE iat
, . . ee

en Ship, :

GAAS
ES ee

by
o

f a ae r

‘ ¥ > ap +
t hte
,

bys
CAS
¥ at i
ms , . oe
aXL PR ah : : ays be rie ONG) 8
e 9 a ‘ aya Toe Dy: : ’ G Pep oe ne Dy
> : shit Bad Eh * : Bae A ss v a. y A co ak yO
,. vO Fa a DG Lb | \ is x te i. ru ; As WN Ot elie on
BEAR Na we 1 4 Sanaa ‘ Sy Sa ; PROS NOTA See tot oh aD aie BEAR AY
nie ae TOS AR AL a Roe path Bary J : eh Hy M sess He Pave
he SES s SIRNAME a's: FUT) Ae OMRON OTA NY CYS RRB 39
io ah ; % 1 : > '; 4 ; if At s ; ns % ne UNS v i AR Oe rity: }
Se is oe Se eae Wie eh PARTON Pudneeee > : CORTE ; NUAN
LUNE RR CSO Scr ONE age ae
Leg aL, oe a SHES OE RIC Se AE fh: MRS re
, S Oy, ; ne “4 x es _ Ne en ith : eS ON by: Ao *
NOTION ey, hon She Mae RGSS Al
V9.0 27% : ; 7 wee - » pe SHE
ee Ley . i ~ . v Ye :
o ve ec) > e. : eae :
; PADI SCH
Pulte.
. Sy he u

Ra eas

vo

>
ts
y ;
¥e)h ot eoM
eNO Myss,

i

* a)
oy ie
a * : et ©
7
ty S re
e j

 

reallif dont know
T should smoke...

... but my brothers and my sweet-

 

7

  
  
  
   
  
  
     
 

heart smoke, and it does give me a
lot of pleasure.
Women began to smoke, so they tell

me. just about the time they began

to vote, but that’s hardly a reason

—E——— Se

for women smoking. | guess | just
like to smoke, that’s all.

It so happens that | smoke CHESTER-
FIELD. They seem to be milder and

they have a very pleasing taste.

 

Se ee en

a
|

 

at

es
| the Cigarette thats Nhlder
,

:
M

 

the Cigarette that Tastes Petter

 

© 1933, LicceTi « Myers Tonacco Co,

 

