te Alumni Magazine

of Washington and [ee University

 

Volume VII Nimber +
March, 1932 $2.50 a Vear

 

T 228 ~ UW A. UN

I

Se ee

 

—_—

John Robinson of Hart’s Bottom

By HARRINGTON WADDELL

ALKING through the Washington ‘and Lee

grounds one sees at the northern end of the

campus, in front of the Tucker law building, ‘a
handsome monument made of Italian marble with the
following inscription :

Honor to whom honor due,
Sacred to the Memory of John Robinson
a native of Ireland,
a soldier of Washington,
and a-munificent benefactor of
Washington College
Born -A. D. 1754
Died A. D. 1826
(and on the base).d#rected 1855

The students in my days used to stop in front of
this monument and leaning over the high fence which
at that time enclosed the monument, after reading the
inscription, they would ask one another who this old
fellow was, and why he was buried on the college
erounds. I suppose the students of 'the present gener-
ation ask the same question and get as meager infor-
mation as they did in my time. It is natural for nearly
every man who speaks in the chapel to make some
reference to Robert E. Lee and George Washington,
but [ do not recall hearing a single speaker mention
the name of John Robinson. His name is attached
ro the chair of geology and biology and the catalogue
lists the Robinson medals as honors that may be
awarded for unusual scholarships, but it has been
more than ten years since a student has made the
erades in all of the subjects required to receive one ot
these medals. This annual tribute to
memory has therefore been omitted in recent years.

Time is a great leveler of man’s accomplishments ;

Robinson's

and a hundred years will blot out the memory of a
large majority of each generation. A marble shaft
with a few words cut in the stone will tell the history
of most of us a century after we are gone. Three
men who lived in Lexington about one hunderd years
ago have made especial appeal to my interest in con-
nection with the history of Lexington and Rockbridge
county—partly from the fact that very few people
of the present day seem to know anything about them,

 

but more largely because they were self-made men,
of meagre education, strong wills, and indomitable
courage—diamonds in the rough it may be, but most
interesting and picturesque characters. One of these
men was William A. (Big Foot) Wallace, the Texas
ranger and Indian fighter; a second was Colonel John
Jordan, the great builder and contracter for this sec-

tion in the first half of the nineteenth century. The
third of these three men was John Robinson, the sub-
ject of my paper, in many respects I believe the most
unique character intimately connected with the devel-
opment of Lexington and Washington College.

I decided during the summer to look up the rec-
ords and see if I could find sufficient data to write
a sketch of John Robinson’s life. In addition to
the information found in the historical papers of
Washington and Lee, I found an article by Dr. Archi-

 

MoNUMENT

ROBINSON

bald Alexander on Robinson, published in the Prince-
ton Magazine of 1850, giving some of the details of
his early life in Lexington. The records of the board
from 1819 to 1885 were examined care-
fully as well as the old papers of the Ann Smith aca-
A copy of Robinson’s will was found at the
courthouse in will book 6, page 78, and a list of his
slaves and real estate given in deed book L, page 244,
with a remarkable paper, dated February 21, 1818, of-
fering to transfer all of his estate to the literary fund
for the benefit of the University of Virginia, on con-
dition that the university should be located in Rock-
bridge county near Lexington. I made free use of all
of this material in preparing this sketch, quoting at
times almost the exact words of these various papers.

John Robinson came to Lexington in about 1770,
as a lad of sixteen or seventeen, soliciting work as an

of trustees

demy.

[3]

- wa te A + A = NN
itinerant weaver. As far as is known he had no kin
in America and no one seems to have known why he
selected Lexington as an abiding place or just where
he came from after first entering the colonies. Dr.
Archibald Alexander, who knew him personally, states
that he was a boy of attractive manners and that his
rare fund of Irish wit pleased the men of the com-
munity and made him popular in the homes where he
found work. General John Bowyer, one of the lead-
ing citizens of the community, was so favorably im-
pressed with this Irish youth that he offered him a
permanent home on his Thorn Hill estate, about two
miles south of the town. He was born in County
Armagh in the northern part of Ireland in 1754. Dr.
Alexander states that he lost his father when a child
and was taken over by an uncle, who bound him over
to a weaver to learn his trade. It is not known how
he was released from this indenture or how he secured
passage to America. He was dissatisfied with his lot
in Ireland and probably worked his way across to
the Virginia colony as other immigrants did in those
early days.

Young Robinson’s expenses were small after he
went to live with General Bowyer, and being diligent
in his trade and thrifty by nature, he soon saved up
enough money to buy a rather dilapidated looking
horse. As General Bowyer allowed him free use of
hay and other provender from his farm, young Robin-
son soon had his horse in fine condition and worth
much more than he paid for it. He decided to ride
to town on court day and try his skill at trading his
horse for another. This he did with great success,
securing for his remade animal a younger and larger
horse in poor condition, it is true, but with a number
of dollars to boot. This new horse was taken out to
good pasture and hay on the general’s farm and by the
next court day was in proper condition for a new
trade, which was made with a like success.

Robinson loved fine horses and is said to have
had great skill in judging their good points. He main-
tained his good reputation for honesty and veracity
and did not practice the deceptions generally attribut-
ed to horse traders. His new business soon became
so profitable that he gave up his work as a weaver
and became a regular horse-jockey—hence his _nick-
name “Jockey” Robinson which stuck to him for the
rest of his life and has come down to the present time.

Robinson was about twenty-three when the Revo-
lutionary war began and saw service as “a soldier of
Washington” as stated on his monument. ‘There is
no detailed record of his service, but his will states
that he participated in the Revolutionary struggle “in
various situations.” After the war was over he re-
turned to Rockbridge and resumed his business of
trading horses with considerable success, so that in a
few years he had accumulated quite a sum of money

$7

I

MA G (A 2Z2:l Wie
for a man in his position. His next move was to find
a good investment for the money he had saved.

In the colony of Virginia as well as in other sec-
tions of the country, many of the soldiers who return-
ed home after the revolution were very hard up finan-
cially, as their pay had been largely in so-called
government certificates, which they were unable to
cash. In fact the federal government had not been
fully organized, and the common opinion was that
these certificates would never be paid in full, and pos-
sibly not at all. Robinson had great faith in Wash-
ington and the new government and firmly believed
that in a few years these certificates would be paid.
Here was a chance which appealed to Robinson’s
speculative nature. These soldiers’ certificates were
a drug on the market and commonly sold for around
10 per cent of their face value—or two and sixpence
in the pound. Robinson decided to put all the money
he had in these certificates with a faith that they would
finally be redeemed. This became a fascinating game
for young Robinson, and he continued for some time
to use all his gains from the trading of horses to spec-
ulate in this depreciated paper, and acquired thousands
of dollars worth of the certificates in face values.
There was certainly nothing underhanded or wrong
in these transactions. He bought at the price offered
and very few were willing to take the risk of buying
at any price, while the needy soldiers were anxious to
sell.

When the federal government was organized and
went into operation, one of the first questions de-
bated in congress was whether the debts to the soldiers
should be paid. Many took the position that even if
the original holders of these certificates ought to be
paid that some discrimination should be made between
the veterans who had suffered the hardships of actual
service and the speculators who had bought up the
certificates at a small fraction of their face value.
Others held that the buyers had taken the risk of
losing what they had invested, and had shown their
confidence in the strength and solidarity of their fu-
ture government, and that they should reap their re-
ward by full payment. After a long and acrimonious
debate in congress, it was finally decided that no dis-
crimination could or should be made. During this
discussion Robinson was naturally greatly perturbed,
as his whole fortune was at stake. When the question
was finally settled in his favor he breathed a sigh of
relief and felt that he was a rich man and could live
the rest of his life in ease and comfort.

I have found no estimate of Robinson’s wealth
at this time, but although he had plenty of income to
live in ease, he soon became restless without some
regular occupation. Most of the leading citizens of
the county were landowners and planters, so it was
only natural that he should next turn his mind to

 

T @ oe A iiwkbL A Ww N
owning and running a farm. He looked over the
whole county for a fine tract of land and_ finally
picked out what was said to be about the most fertile
and attractive tract of land in the county, consisting of
400 acres, called Hart’s Bottom, covering the land now
occupied by the city of Buena Vista. This land was
owned by General Bowyer and in spite of the high
price set by the general, Robinson decided to sell
enough of his government securities to buy this plan-
tation. ‘This beautiful bottom land on the east side
of North river was first acquired by Siles Hart by
patent from King George II in 1746 through Gover-
nor Gooch, who also made the very large grant to
Benjamin Borden. Robinson soon bought other land
in the same neighborhood, making his total holdings
in that locality around 800 acres. He later bought
land on the Cow Pasture river, Buffalo creek, and in
all to over 3,000 acres. Of course he bought slaves
to do the work on his farms and owned fifty-seven
at the time of his death.

Robinson had been a good weaver, a_ shrewd
horse-trader, and a very successful speculator, but he
had no training for the management of slaves on a
landed estate and made a poor success at farming. He
added to his business at Hart’s Bottom, however, the
manufacture of whiskey, and gained a reputation for
making the best in this part of the country.

“Jockey” Robinson never married and lived a
rather cheerless and lonely life on his plantation at
Hart’s Bottom, especially as he was in poor health
for a number of years during the latter part of his life.
Dr. William Henry Ruffner states that his greatest
pleasure during his declining years was to ride to Lex-
ington several times a week and spend the day talking
with his many friends. The trip of nine miles on his
slow plodding gray horse necessitated an early start
and a late return, so that the whole day was consumed
each visit he made. He had a very limited education
and did not enjoy the pleasure of reading during the
many lonely hours he spent by himself. I have been
able to find no document that he wrote in his own
hand and only a few that he signed by writing his
name. His legal papers were most often written and
signed by a lawyer as, “Agent and Attorney in.Fact.”

Robinson was a man of kindly disposition and
generous heart. He took a keen interest in the edu-
cational institutions of Lexington and on a number of
occasions assisted them in a financial way during his
life. He was honored by being elected a trustee of
the Ann Smith academy and also served as a member
of the board of trustees of Washington College for a
number of years, but the records indicate that he did
not attend many of these educational meetings.

As early as 1803, after the old Liberty Hall aca-
demy was destroyed by fire, and the people of Lexing-
ton were bidding for its removal to the town, Robin-

I

[5]

MW A G&G AA 2 ST Se
son subscribed generously. He offered a lot on the
edge of the town as a site for the school or its equiv-
alent in money value amounting to several hundred
dollars.

The general assembly of the state of Virginia
passed an act on the 21st of February, 1818, authoriz-
ing the establishment of the state university; and the
first question to be settled was as to where it should
be located. Staunton made a bid for the new uni-
versity, and the friends of William and Mary college
and the people of the eastern part of the state thought
it should be located at Williamsburg. The trustees
of Washington College entered the contest, offering
to turn over the property of the college to the state
if the university should be located at Lexington. They
had the backing of more of the people in the western
part of the state and subscriptions from Rockbridge
county amounting to $70,000—by far the best offer
that was made; and if it had not been that Thomas
Jefferson was in favor of placing the university at
Charlottesville, Lexington would have doubtless won
in the contest. A very large part of the subscription
offered by Rockbridge was made by Mr. Robinson,
who offered to give his whole estate to the University
of Virginia on condition that it be located within four
miles of Lexington. The deed making this condi-
tional transfer of his entire property is on record in
the clerk’s office of Rockbridge county, and is one of
the most remarkable papers connected with the devel-
opment of higher education in Virginia, and is of
especial interest because it gives a list of his slaves by
name and occupation.

When the college was moved to Lexington in
1803 there were about 100 houses in the village. A
tract of thirty acres of land was bought from Andrew
Alexander for the present site of the college and two
new academic buildings were erected along with a
steward’s house, all being of brick. A _ two-story
wooden house which was on the present site of the
president’s house came with the property and served
as the home of the rector for some forty years.
The two new academic buildings, one Graham Hall
and the other Union Hall, were located on the pres-
ent line of the college buildings, one at the eastern
end and the other at the western end of the campus.
These buildings were two stories in height, 70x20
feet, and duplicates in appearance. They contained
fifteen rooms (one for chapel) and served the students
as both class rooms and dormitories for the next
twenty years.

By 1821 the college had outgrown these old quar-
ters, and the board decided that a new and larger
building was a necessity. A committee was appointed
to draw plans and solicit funds. Robinson now being
a member of the college board was appealed to
strongly and made a contribution of $2,000. The

: 41. A -“Lid] MN
best bid on the building was made by John Jordan
at a price of $9,000; and although only half of this
amount was in sight, the trustees had faith enough
to accept Jordan’s bid and let the contract. The corner-
stone of the main or center building was laid in the
spring of 1824, and Robinson was counted on to pay a
large part of its cost. He suggested that the laying of
the corner-stone of the main building be made the oc-
casion of a big celebration, and the college authorities
were willing to grant most any request that he might
make; but no one foresaw the wild party which was
to take place on the campus that day, the memory of
which has been handed down through three generations.

Dr. Ruffner’s description of this occasion is far
more vivid than any words that I could use and I will
quote from the historical papers No. 4 written by him.

Mr. Robinson’s offering for the celebration “was a
barrel of fifteen-year-old whiskey, ‘fruited and ropy,’
which was unloaded from a cart on the campus in front
of the new foundation, and after being set up on end
the head was removed, and the sun shone upon forty
gallons of the finest rye whiskey ever seen in Rock-
bridge.

“Notice having been given of the public treat a
large company assembled from town and county. Mr.
Robinson inaugurated the ceremony by escorting two
of the leading officers of the college to the barrel, and
these three took the first taste of the sparkling liquid.
Then came a succession of dignitaries who in like man-
ner honored the occasion. For some time some courtesy
in the order of approach was observed, but the thirsty
multitude soon broke through all restraint and armed
with tin cups, pitchers, basins, buckets, and a variety of
dippers, some of them more handy than nice, rushed
for the barrel, and soon gave a glorious exhibition of
what free whiskey can do for the noble creature made
in the image of God.

“It has been declared that every man on the ground
became intoxicated. This is not true. ‘There were
men present who did not taste the whiskey, and there
was a respectable body of gentlemen who out of civility
partook sparingly of the entertainment provided in
all kindness by the liberal friend of the college, and who
yet remained sober as Ulysses whilst his companions
were rolling on the ground like swine. ‘Two of these,
namely, Isaac Caruthers and a gentlemen whose name
I cannot recall, stopped the drinking by upsetting the
barrel while. yet a considerable quantity of its con-
tents remained unconsumed. During the remainder of
the day College Hill looked like a battlefield after a
hard fight.”

It should be stated, I think, that in those days
most merchants had free whiskey on tap in the back of
their stores for the refreshment of their customers, and
that the making and drinking of whiskey in reason was
no discredit to a man at that time, while elders in the

I

m SA i ZA Fe i oe
Presbyterian church were frequently distillers. Drunk-
enness, however, was a disgrace, especially on the col-
lege campus in broad daylight. The college authorities
and Mr. Robinson in particular were humiliated and dis-
tressed beyond measure at the outcome of this cele-
bration on the college grounds.

From the date of Robinson’s election to the board
of trustees in 1819, the college authorities had counted
more and more on his interest and generosity to help
the institution in times of special need; and the friends
of the college, since his offer to the University of Vir-
ginia mentioned above, felt confident that when he
died the Lexington schools would be the beneficiaries
under his will. It is stated that Robinson’s will was

originally drawn by Hon. J. Howe Peyton, but in lan-

[6 ]

guage that was unadorned and not pleasing to the old
gentleman, who desired a historical statement regard-
ing himself to be incorporated in the document and also
a statement as to his reason for his munificent bequest.
Colonel James McDowell made a visit to Hart’s Bot-
tom and suggested that his son, James, be sent down to
rewrite the will in rhetorical wording to suit the wishes
of the devisor. This was done to the full satisfaction
of Mr. Robinson, and the flowery phrases of the record-
ed document, dated April 26, 1825, give us a sample of
writing from the facile pen of this brilliant young at-
torney, James McDowell, later the distinguished gov-
ernor of Virginia. Robinson bequeathed his entire
estate, valued at fifty thousand dollars, to the trustees
of Washington College. He died June 26, 1826, aged
seventy-two years, (and his body was buried on the
college grounds, about where Professor Moreland’s
residence is at the present time.

His funeral was most elaborate in detail. Neigh-
bors and slaves escorted the remains from his home at
Hart’s Bottom. Faculty and members of the board of
trustees met the procession several miles outside of the
town while the town officials and deputations from the
Franklin society as well as the college societies joined
the procession as they entered the college grounds. The
whole community seems to have been present to pay
final tribute of respect to an honored friend who had
no blood kin to shed a tear at his grave.

The college board in all sincerity started out with
the purpose of carrying out Robinson’s wishes in de-
tail; and for a number of years made an effort to run
the farm at Hart’s Bottom with the slaves left by will
to the college, but the trustees soon found out that it
was an unprofitable and hopeless task. It was an anoma-
lous situation for a board of an educational institution
to attempt to manage a large number of Negro slaves
and run a plantation to earn money for the pay of
professors. As time went by the conditions became
hopeless, and the trustees soon realized that it was not
practical for the college to continue to carry out the
wishes of Mr. Robinson as provided for in section 8

 

T =e ee ee Re | SS |
and 9 of his will. After consulting the best legal ad-
vice available, the college board passed an order to dis-
pose of the slaves and to lease Hart’s Bottom for a
period of years. Practically all of the slaves were dis-
posed of within ten years after Robinson’s death, and
in 1840 a sale of Hart’s Bottom was made. ‘The net
proceeds of the whole estate when finally settled
amounted to $46,577.00, which is still carried on the
books of the university as an endowment for the pro-
fessorship of geology and biology. It is apparent,
therefore, that the Robinson bequest was the second
largest endowment gift to be made to the college up to
the time of the Civil war and was nearly equal to the
$50,000 made by George Washington. If the pro-
visions of the will had been strictly adhered to and the
slaves held by the college for fifty years, the subsequent
history of the institution would probably have been quite
different and all the slaves would have been set free
after the war. Had Hart’s Bottom been held as “an
inalieable estate,” the city of Buena Vista would not
have arisen out of the boom of the nineties, and Glas-
gow might have developed into a beautiful city on the
banks of the James river.

For a number of years after his death the grave of
Robinson was marked by no stone and was surrounded
by cheap paling fence. As the years went by without
any monument being erected over his grave, much
criticism of the college authorities was expressed for
their negligence in this regard. The college board felt
the obligation resting upon them of placing some kind
of a marker over Robinson’s grave; and this question
was discussed at almost every meeting of the board for
more than twenty years, before a satisfactory settle-
ment of the matter was finally consummated in 1855.
Let me quote from a few of the records on the minutes
of the board.

March 28, 1833—‘The president requested to pro-
cure a model of a neat and suitable monument for the
grave of Robinson.”

June 1, 1839—Committee appointed to do the same.

June, 1843—Board ordered “That a monument of
grey limestone fifteen feet high of one piece be placed
on a proper and substantial base without polish ex-
cepting the part on which the inscription is to be made,
and that Professor Armstrong and the proctor be a
committee to carry this order into effect.”

June 27, 1844—Report of the committee was disa-
greed to.

October 2, 1844—Committee ordered to make con-
tract for the monument.

June 26, 1845—Committee on Robinson monument
reported and report laid on the table.

Dr. Ruffner says that the monument outlined in
the above quoted order was erected, but that it was
thrown down after a few years in a mysterious way, the
inference being that it was not pleasing to the friends

I

RY, ES. C dee, ee es
and admirers of Robinson and they took this means of
showing their disapproval and the sentiments in the
community that a more imposing and really handsome
monument should be put in its place.

June 18, 1850—A movement for a new monument
was started and the board appropriated $500 for this
purpose. A new committee was also appointed. De-
signs from Philadelphia were secured, but scarcity of
money again prevented the committee from acting for
several years and it was not until July, 1855, that the
monument was finally erected and a full report made
by the committee in charge of this undertaking. The
final report of the committee, made to the board of
trustees, and spread on the minutes of the meeting held
July 4, 1855, gives in detail the history of the monu-
ment and is of sufficient interest to be read in full.

 

DR. J. W. CLAUDY, ’09, SUPERINTENDENT

In response to a letter of inquiry regarding his ap-
pointment as superintendent of Rockview Farm Prison,
Dr. J. W. Claudy writes as follows:

“Relative to my position here, I am enclosing an
editorial from the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which will
interest you and give you the information you desire
My position as general superintendent at Rockview is
very interesting. We have an institution without a
wall, one thousand inmates who work all the time ex-
cept those who are physically unfit to do so, and seven
thousand acres of ground.”

“The appointment of the Rev. Dr. J. W. Claudy
to the general superintendency of the penitentiary at
Rockview, Center county, will be accepted as logical.”
says the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. “As a member of
the board of management of the Western Penitentiary,
of which Rockview is a branch, Dr. Claudy has had
an opportunity to study penal problems in general and
in particular those which he will be called upon to solve.
His work as secretary of the Pittsburgh Council of
Churches and in other clerical posts proved his capacity
for leadership and his executive ability.

“Dr. Claudy’s announced intention to work for the
‘rehabilitation of the individual’ while at Rockview is
in conformity with the declaration of principles of the
American Prison Association, which long since took
the position that ‘the supreme aim of prison discipline
is the reformation of the criminal, not the infliction of
vindictive suffering.’ To penologists there may be
nothing new in such a program, but there is always
interest whenever the policy is applied by a newcomer
to the ranks of prison executives. The plan of giving
educational opportunities, vocational training and ath-
letic advantages to the thousand incarcerated at Rock-
view by a leader who was schooled for the ministry,
also trained in athletics, and grounded in prison man-
agement naturally will be watched.”

ivy

ie me F A ky Ui. MN

I

mm AY GG. A. ZZ fa eee

 

A LETTER FROM LONDON

December’ 28, 1931
Mr. Harry K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia, U. S. A.

Dear Cy:

Congratulations from London Town on the way
things in general seem to be coming on at Washington
and Lee! This is an impression which has been gath-
ered from reading the various numbers of the “Alumni
Magazine ;” has been strengthened by reading the scores
of the football games against Virginia, V. P. I., and
Princeton; and finally confirmed in person by Verbon
Kemp, who was here in London a few weeks ago pilot-
ing a party of Virginia apple growers. From what
Kemp tells me, as well as from reading the reports of
his doings and sayings in the “Alumni Magazine,” Dr.
Gaines has already proved to be the right man in the
right place who knows how to do and say the right
things at the right times.

It was a pleasant surprise to see Verbon Kemp
here in London, after the seven years which had elapsed
since Mrs. Somerville and I were his guests—one fine
summer day—on an automobile trip through Goshen
Pass. He had a crowd of thorough-going Virginians,
mostly from Albemarle county, with him over here,
making a study of the methods by which Virginia apples
are marketed in this country. On the last day of their
stay here, by way of a diversion from their strenuous
activities trying to see all the principal markets in the
country, I escorted them down to a famous old London
restaurant called “Simpson’s in the City,” where for
more than one hundred years there has been enacted
daily the ceremony of weighing-in the cheese. If any
one of the assembled guests can guess correctly the
height, girth and weight of the cheese, the proprietor
treats the company to his finest champagnes and cigars.
The trick is pulled off about once every nine months.
What makes this ceremony all the more remarkable is
that these daily occasions are presided over by a “chair-
man” —a 96-year old London lawyer—and a business
man having no connection with the restaurant, who says
grace at the beginning, serves the soup course, the three
fish courses, and the dessert, says grace at the end, just
as if he were really the host.

However, I fear this is digressing from what I
intended saying about Kemp, namely, judging from my
own study of the system of marketing fruit and other
foodstuffs in this country, I think Kemp’s plan of get-
ting together this group of influential fruit growers to
see for themselves what happens to their products when
sent over here, what cort of competition in the way of
quality and packing methods they must come up against
—is an excellent one. It seems to me also that he has
the right idea of how to go about gaining further sup-

[8 ]

port for improved marketing methods in Virginia, and
[ trust he will continue to receive support for his plans
as they develop.

I am due to return to the States on leave in May,
and am hoping that things will work out so as to permit
a look-in on the 1932 commencement doings.

My best regards, please, to Dick Smith, and all
the rest of the 1908-14 W. and L,. enthusiasts who may
be cooperating with you in the good cause.

Sincerely,
JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR.

P. $.—My work here as Trade Commissioner has
been very interesting. For my first three years in
London, agricultural products and their marketing prob-
lems were my particular field—with the Russian trade
as a sort of personal hobby. The latter work grew
more important; and now my whole time is devoted to
Russian trade problems, the lumber trade (which is
connected with Russian trade) ; and by way of variety,
to the motion picture trade. American trade with Eng-
land in most lines has been good but by recent exchange
disturbances, and for the past few months things have
been at a low ebb—and at the moment no very hopeful
signs of improvement.

 

SHRINE GIVEN TO UNIVERSITY

A George Washington shrine has been presented
to the University by the George Washington Bi-cen-
tennial Commission. The gift was made through
Congressman C. A. Woodrum of Roanoke, who grad-
uated at Washington and Lee in the class of 1908. Con-
gressman Woodrum was appointed by President Hoov-
er sometime ago to be a member of the National
commission.

The shrine is a reproduction of the Gilbert Stuart
Atheneum portrait of Washington made when the
President was 61 years old. It was kept by the artist
and after his death was sold by his widow to the Wash-
ington Society of Boston for $1,500. ‘The original,
which was the third and last done of Washington dur-
ing his lifetime by Stuart, has remained in Boston ever
since it was sold in 1841.

The portrait is surmounted by two American flags
and on each side is an electric candlestick. No definite
place for it has been decided upon at the present time,
but it is thought that it will be put in the Chapel some-
time in the near future.

 

SPRING HOLIDAY

The Thanksgiving holidays will be shortened to
one day and fall athletic holidays suspended, and the
time usually granted will be given over to a spring va-
cation which will be the eighth week after the begin-
ning of the second semester.

T H E AD UW MN

eee

Broadcast of the

s}|IXDING another feature of interest to the
already nationally known annual Fancy Dress
Ball at Washington and Lee, the broadcast
from the dance floor of the ballroom in Doremus
Gymnasium was heard by innumerable alumni and other
interested listeners from 9 to 10 P. M. over a nation-
wide NBC network, dur-
the Lucky Strike

  

ing
Hour.
This marked the first
time in the history of this
unique Southern event
that the proceedings have
been broadcast on a spon-
sored program.
long-distance mes-
sages, telegrams and _let-
ters too numerous to print
in full have been received
showing the enthusiasm
with which the broadcast
was heard in all parts
of the United States and
several foreign countries.
According to the local tele-
graph office about fifty
wires were received
Thursday night after the
office had closed request-
ing the orchestra to play
certain pieces of music.
The Lucky Strike Com-
pany paid all expenses, in-
cluding the wire to New
York for an hour, amount-
ing, it is said, to about
$3,500.
For the benefit of
alumni who were not lis-
tening in—the program
consisted of a most appre-
Ciative sketch of the setting of the broadcast giving a
few interesting facts about the University and its con-
nection with George Washington and Robert E. Lee,
and graphically describing the lovely colonial costumes.
A few words of greeting followed from Dean Campbell,
in the absence of President Gaines, General John A.
Lejeune, superintendent of Virginia Military Institute,
silly Howell, Washington and Lee senior, who dis-
tinguished himself to such an extent in the national
amateur golf tournament last year, and “Cy” Young,

I

 

James D. Sparks AND Miss ELLEN Kent MILLSAPS
AS GEORGE AND MARTHA WASHINGTON

ee Ae: A BS. 2 Bee

Fancy Dress Ball

who added to his greeting a special salutation to “Ed-
die Davis—’way down in Texas.” This program was
interspersed with dance music by Bernie Cummins and
his famous dance orchestra, including, of course, the
Washington and Lee Swing.
A few letters and extracts from others will be of
interest to our readers:

Kansas City, Mo.
Dear Dean Campbell:

It was a “Lucky
Strike” for me last night
when turning the dial of
our radio I happened to
pick up the Washington
and Lee broadcast of its
annual Fancy Dress Ball.

The purpose of this
note is to tell you of the
excitement that took pos-
session of. me when I
heard the announcer say
‘Dean Campbell will speak
words to you.”
came good

a few
Your
and clear over the distance
of the thousand miles
that separate Lexington
from Kansas City. I only
wished your remarks had
10t been so brief.

What a flood of mem-
ories were awakened by
How I
wanted to reach out my
hand in greeting, yes,
homesick I was for a
glimpse of old scenes and

voice

this experience !

renewal of happy associa-
tions. Of these none
would be more appreciated
than to see my cherished friends of yester-year.
With best wishes, I am
Most sincerely,
REESE TURPIN

Victoria, Texas
Dear Dr. Campbell:
It was good to hear your voice over the radio last
night also the Washington and Lee Swing.
We enjoyed having Dr. Gaines in San Antonio,

[9]

a. oe mo es: Re NN

I

Mw GCG BM. 2 2 ew

 

Monday. All the alumni at the banquet seemed as
pleased with him as I was.
Appreciative regards,

W. T. Riviere

Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Campbell :

It was quite a thrill to hear your voice over the
radio last night from the Lucky Strike Hour program of
Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress Ball. Wish you
could have talked more.

Joun A. ToLiry

Chicago, IIl.
Dear Dr.. Campbell:

It was good to hear your voice so distinctly tonight
on the Lucky Strike Hour. To be close and yet so far
away made us homesick for Washington and Lee.

Kart ZERFOSS

South Swansea, Mass.
Dear Dean Campbell:

What a pleasure it was to hear your voice over the
air during the “Lucky Strike” program last evening. It
was almost as good as being in Lexington for a visit.
The music and the laughter of the dancers coming from
Doremus “Gym” carried me back to the time when I
too danced there. I trust that the dance was a success
and that they thoroughly enjoyed every minute.

Davis CrITTENDEN

Chaumont, N. Y.
Dear Dr. Campbell :

You may not have time to read this but I wish to
say that I enjoyed the Washington and Lee broadcast of
January 28th. I am located near the Canadian border
on the east end of Lake Ontario.

KenNeETH S. Huccins

The following telegrams were also received:
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Dean Harry Campbell
Program coming in fine quite a thrill.
Paut Bock, Class ’24

Portland, Oregon
Dean Harry Campbell
Your voice and my memories make me very home-
sick to be with you STOP The Swing was great but
missed College Friendships. Best regards to Mrs.
Campbell and yourself.
BoaTNER CHAMBERLIN

El Paso, ‘Texas
Dr. Harry Campbell
Was glad to hear your voice again enjoyed your

party very much was sorry I could not be with you.
D. H. HuFFAKER

Additional letters received:

Wichita Falls, Texas
Jan. 29, 1932.
Dear Cy:

In the language of our Patron Saint, “I cannot be
untruthful” you certainly made the old boy homesick
last night. We all had our ears glued to the radio at
Virgil’s house and when your salutation came it raised
us out of our seats. I must say that I had to take a
big swallow, and it was not a drink, either. We
could hear it all perfectly. Your voice sounded great.

Dr. Gaines, the Dallas meeting, a letter from Dick
and one from Tex yesterday, and then to end up with
that program last night is a little too much Wash-
ington and Lee for me to stand. You better let up
or it will be goodbye Texas for me.

I must surely hand it to you for putting that over
last night. Please tell the Dean, and Billy Howell
how good it all sounded to me. I appreciate your re-
membering me, even if it does give me those home-
sickness blues for a few days. Lowdy, how I would
liked to have been there.

Shake all the gang by the hand for me. You cer-
tainly brought all of the Washington and Lee folks
close together last night.

My love to all the fair ladies that Walter Win-
chell was talking about. That old boy poured it on
for us in great style. OK Monroe Park!

Sincerely yours,
EppiE (Davis)

WEST INDIA OIL COMPANY
PETROLE ET SES PRODUITS
Port-Au-Prince, Haiti, Le

January 29, 1932
Dear Cy,

I feel tremendously obligated both to the Uni-
versity and to myself to let you know the keen en-
joyment I experienced last evening when I luckily
tuned in on the broadcast of the Fancy Dress Ball.

Your talk, the playing of the “Swing” revived
again that spirit which always makes of alumni un-
dergraduates again. I am sure that through the
medium of last night’s broadcast, which was so realis-
tic that I even imagined myself there, that alumni
everywhere who were listening in were yeah again
closer to the University.

My heartiest congratulations and best wishes for
a greater cooperation between alumni and the Uni-
versity.

Sincerely yours,
W. K. Horron, Jr., Ex.-’25

[ 10 ]

 

T Hee A DAA oN MO MALAG OA Am 2b oe Pe
HOTEL FENWAY I really enjoyed the program, Cy, and please let
DUNEDIN, FLORIDA me know about the above matters. Also you might
January 29th, 1932 send me a year’s subscription to the Alumni Magazine
Dear Cy: together with a bill for same.

At Dunedin last evening I was told that the radio
was broadcasting the Fancy Dress Ball at Lexington.
I had the pleasure of listening in and in hearing your
short, but very good talk, which was straight to the
point and your voice was so natural that I was car-
ried back to Lexington and then when the Washington
and Lee Swing was given
and the singing and the
cheers—all was _ received
here perfectly, which I en-
joyed immensely. With
regards to Mrs. Young
and my best to you.

I am cordially,
Wm. M. McELwee

a

Detroit, Mich.
January 30
My dear Cy:

Gee, I got a thrill
listening to the broadcast
Thursday night.

It was marvelous to
hear “As Alumni Secre-
tary of—” in most studied
tones, and then the hasty
“Hello, Eddie Davis, ’way
down in Texas,”

As a loyal alumnus
of Washington and Lee,
[ thank you.

Unflinchingly,
eel.
Witiiam L,. MapeEt,
Assistant Editor

The American Boy.

Memphis, Tenn.
Dear Cy:

I suppose you are by
now in the “Crosby, Co-
lumbo and Vallee” class, so I am somewhat reticent
about writing this, my first “fan” letter. However,
Cy, I think the broadcast was swell and I can’t think
of anything that has caused so much favorable publicity.
Everybody in Memphis agrees that it was quite a
stunt. I hope that “Eddie Davis in Texas’ heard
you and enjoyed it as much as I did. I was practically
up in the radio all during the program. In fact, it
had such an effect on me that I might be able to break
away for Finals if you will tell me when they are,
and also where the Kappa Sigmas are living this year.

 

PAuL WoFForD As “Licut HorskE HArryY” LEE WITH
Miss Mary CHRISTINE HUGHES

Very truly,
MiLLEDGE NaI, ’24

New Orleans
Jan. 29, 1932
Dear Mr. Young:
Enjoyed the W. and
lL, publicity over radio
last night and especially
your little introduction of
“our own song.” It tickled
me to think that WSMB
in New Orleans was forc-
ed to broadcast the “W.
and L,. Swing” and not
“The Tulane Swing.” Re-
ception was fine and I felt
like letting out a few
whoops to join the chorus
in the gymnasium.
Yours truly,
F. P. HamILton

Memphis, Tenn.
January 29, 1932
Dear Cy:

Just a line to let you
know that it was a real
thrill to hear your voice
and that of Dr. Campbell
over the Lucky Strike
Radio Hour last night.
Needless to say the en-
tire program was quite
entertaining to the Alum-
ni and was, of course,
splendid publicity for the
University.

Yours very truly,

Henry W. Jones, ’24

Pine Bluff, Arkansas
January 29, 1932
Dear Cy:-

It was a pleasure to hear your voice last night,
over the N. B. C., Lucky Strike program. Was home
by myself, my wife being in Denver visiting her sis-
ter, and the entire program was a great pleasure to
me. Your voice came in clear and distinct, and your
little announcement was good.

Also enjoyed Bernie Cummins and his orchestra,
particularly the Swing. I could picture old Doremus

{ 11 |

a? eee A: he Do N
Gym, with all the color and jollity which must have
prevailed.

Just thought you would like to know.

With kindest personal regards, I remain,

Your friend,
L. DEwoopy “Cuuck” Lyte, ’17

Huntsville, Alabama
January 29, 1932
My dear Cy:

“Believe it or not” as our friend Ripley would say,
while four of us were riding down the Lee highway
last night I heard your voice. We had my automobile
radio turned on the St. Petersburg, Florida, station,
and heard Bernie Cummins play. Then your little
speech and your remembrance to Eddie Parks Davis
down in Texas.

The program came in well and I enjoyed it. The
Washington and Lee Swing came in over my automo-
bile radio just as clearly as if I were right there in the
old Doremus Gymnasium itself. It all brought back
memories of 1929 when Toot Gibson led the Fancy
Dress Ball with Sophia Dunlap of Mobile and I led
the French figure. It made me right homesick to be
back with you. I sincerely hope that I can be back in
Lexington for the Finals at any rate.

With kindest personal regards to you, I am

Cordially yours,

Henry P. JoHNSON
Publisher The Huntsville Times.

Craryville, N. Y.
January 28, 1932
Dear Cy:

Just finished the most enjoyable hour I’ve ever
heard on the radio. And to hear “Cy’s” voice in the
finale was worth the full price of admission. I hope
Kiddie Parks heard it.

“SULLY” (WiLtIAM B. SULLIVAN)

 

HENRY McQUEEN CORBETT, ’22.

Henry McQueen Corbett recently elected vice-
president in charge of the Raleigh unit of the North
Carolina Bank and Trust company, is perhaps one of
the youngest bank executives in North Carolina.

He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Corbett, of
Wilmington, and was born in that city 29 years ago.
Educated at Augusta Military Academy, and at Wash-
ington and Lee University, where he was graduated in
1922, Mr. Corbett immediately embarked in the bank-
ing business.

He entered the banking business in Wilmington
in 1922 as an assistant cashier of the Murchison
National Bank, and served in that capacity until the

I

Wa Af GA Zo 9 ee
Murchison Bank was merged with the North Carolina
Bank and Trust company. He was then elevated to
the position of vice-president.

Mr. Corbett is a member of the Cape Fear Club
and other social organizations in Wilmington, aside
from his connections with the Bankers Association and
other organizations.

He is one of Wilmington’s most popular younger
business men.

 

A. R. HAWKINS, ’25

Aires tee)
Hawkins, °25, was in
Lexington recently

with his bride who
was Miss _ Isabelle
Todd of Lakeland,

Fla. Mrs. Hawkins is
a sister of Sam Todd,
now a freshman in the
University. “Red”
will be remembered
as one of the _ best
centers ever developed
at Washington and
Lee. Since his gradu-
ation he has been con-
nected with the Ken-
tucky Asphalt Corpor-
ation at Kyrock, Kentucky, where they will make their
home.

 

 

“SWING” IS DISCONTINUED BY TULANE.

“The Washington and Lee Swing,” which is better
known to Orleanians as the “Tulane Swing,” will be
discontinued by the Tulane band due to protests of the
Washington and Lee authorities and other outside criti-
cism, according to the announcement of Carey Jones,
manager of the band.

In a letter addressed to the public at large, as well
as the student body, Mr. Jones said:

“A good many people are still under the impres-
sion that the song is a Tulane song. ‘This is not true.
The “Swing” is not and will not be a Tulane song.

“The authorities of Washington and Lee have re-
peatedly protested against Tulane using their song when
we have our own and to avoid any ill-feeling, the Tulane
band will no longer play the Swing at any time.”

The song was used for many years as the official
football song previous to the origination of the ‘Olive
and Blue,” which will replace any other songs now in
use.

 

Capt. Guy E. Manning, ’90, is now residing at 164
North Remington Road, Columbus, Ohio,

[ 12 ]

 

T Ss A 1 a Oe me

Mm AY §A 2 ya Pa ee

 

Washington and Lee Scholarships

a

Te

a1

 

welVERY state in the Union and three Canadian
| |provinces are represented in the vast number

 

 

 

Fjof inquiries that are coming in to the Univer-

 

sity concerning the five scholarships to Washington and
Lee that are being offered by The American Boy maga-
zine for the best essay on George Washington’s con-
tribution to education.

Pamphlets prepared by Dr. L. C. Helderman, asso-
ciate professor of history at Washington and Lee, are
being sent out at the rate of about 200 a day in response
to request for information in regard to details.

The following article which appeared in the Feb-
ruary issue of The American Boy, has created general
interest. It is republished in full with the consent of
the editors of the magazine:

How would you like to win a scholarship to one of
the finest old universities in this country ?

Perhaps you can!

Maybe you'll be one of the five American Boy
readers

 

all boys—who will attend historic Washing-
ton and Lee University in Virginia on free scholar-
ships offered in this month’s American Boy contest.

The contest will be for essays, up to 500 words, on
this subject:

“Washington’s Contribution to Education.”

[ 13

 

aviv

Yee eae _

JRE

ae

ee

Tit cae:

George Washington did contribute greatly to edu-
cation and some American Boy reader under 21 years—
maybe you—is going to tell the story so well that he’s
going to win a four-year scholarship to the institution
fostered by the First President.

Another boy is going to win a two-year scholar-
ship; a third—but here’s the list of 50 prizes—total
value, more than $2,500.

First Prize: The George Washington Scholarship,
four years, value, $1,000.

Second Prize: The “Lighthorse Harry” Lee Schol-
arship, two years, value, $500.

Third Prize: The Lafayette Scholarship, one year,
value, $250.

Fourth Prize: The General Andrew Moore Schol-
arship, one year, value, $250.

Fifth Prize: The General William Campbell Schol-
arship, one year, value $250 to the winning essayist.

Next 45 prizes: Portraits of Washington, portraits
of Robert E. Lee, books on these two great Americans,
and souvenirs of the university.

Here’s a multiple chance for you! ‘The George
Washington Scholar! The “Lighthorse Harry” Lee
Scholar! The Marquis de Lafayette Scholar! Ro-
mantic names! A romantic idea!

J

1? He 8 AABe WV MeN

Next year, or the year after, or even the year after
that (your scholarship will be waiting for you when
you're ready for college) you may find yourself a fresh-
man in this seventh oldest American university, found-
ed decades before the Revolution; endowed by Wash-
ington when he was first president; rebuilt by Robert
E. Lee after the War Between the States. But, read
on:

If you win one of the five scholarships you'll be
in a selected group. Washington and Lee has with-
stood successfully the onslaught of numbers, and rigidly
has kept its enrollment down to 900. Last year 39
states and five countries were represented. You'll be
in a student body that governs itself through the out-
standing American honor system—put into operation
by General Lee in 1866 and made tradition by class
after class of Washington and Lee men since then.
You'll drop your books on the campus and know they’ll
be waiting for you when you return for them; you'll
take examinations without a teacher or a proctor look-
ing over your shoulder; you'll answer all questions
truthfully and you can always expect the truth. Each
generation adds its force to this splendid tradition.

Maybe you'll be pledged to one of the twenty
social fraternities. Perhaps you'll room in one of the
old Southern homes, with long, white pillars reaching
to the roof. You may play on the football, basketball,
or baseball team. Or maybe boxing, wrestling, golf,
tennis, or crew will claim your attention. You can de-
bate if you wish, or be on the student newspaper, maga-
zine, or annual staff. Campus politics may claim you,
or you may want to draw or paint or play in the band
or orchestra.

You'll attend classes in old Georgian buildings,
some of them erected before the War of 1812. These
classes will be small, and your professors will know
more about you than just know your name.

Maybe you'll take an arts course, or perhaps you'll
specialize in the study of some profession. Washing-
ton and Lee’s school of law long has been known as
the training ground. for dozens of national and inter-
national figures. Journalism or commerce may fas-
cinate you. If so, you'll take pride in the fact that
Washington and Lee was the first school in the world
to offer training for these professions. You may
study engineering or prepare for medicine.

Washington and Lee country will take root in your
heart. The Blue Ridge mountains on one side, the Al-
leghenies on the other, and lazy Lexington down in
the beautiful Shenandoah Valley between!

Afternoons, you'll wander down Lexington streets
—streets down which Hunter’s troops thundered in ’64.
You'll visit dress parade at the Virginia Military
Institute.

You'll have a feeling of awe as you stand beside
the great tree that grows between the walls of old Liber-

I

me BO Cr As Sri eS
ty Hall and think that those walls are all that remains
of the building that burned in 1800. You'll visit
Goshen Pass; you'll think of fourth-reader days as
you gaze on Natural Bridge.

You'll visit the museum and see the bones of
Traveller, General Lee’s war horse; and if you aren’t
careful you'll look at the bones of a much smaller
horse and some sophomore will tell you those bones are
of Traveller when he was a colt.

You'll wear a blue and white freshman cap the
first semester and blue and white freshman hat in Feb-
ruary and March. Then, in April, you'll burn that
hat in a glorious bonfire on Freshman Night, after
which you'll climb to the top of Washington College
and help paint the heroic oaken statue of George
Washington.

Perhaps you'll be asked to visit Washington and
Lee in June, this year, when your scholarship will be
awarded to you in person by some distinguished alum-
nus at the 182nd commencement of the university. This
man may be John W. Davis, Democratic presidential
candidate in 1924, or Newton Baker, Wilson’s secretary
of war.

All of this and much more lies in store for five
American Boy readers. And other good prizes for the
next 45 winners!

Now, what to do:

Write at once to Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines,
President, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia. President Gaines will send you, without
cost to you, a specially prepared booklet outlining
George Washington’s contribution to education.

This booklet, a digest of a recent book by Dr.
Leonard Clinton Helderman, will be a prize in itself.
It will give you a picture of the university, and a gold
mine of ideas from which you can write your essay.

Study Dr. Helderman’s booklet. Then write!
Typewrite your essay, if possible, keeping it down to
500 words and using only one side of the sheet.

Mail your essay so it will reach the Contest Editor,
The American Boy, 550 West Lafayette Blvd., not
later than March 10.

At the top of each sheet, in addition to your name,
you must give your age, your year in school, the name
of your school, and the name of your principal.

If you win a prize—and The American Boy wishes
each one of its readers could win a university scholar-
ship—your principal will be asked to give information
about you to Washington and Lee.

So get busy. Your booklet awaits you.

 

Notice has been received in the Alumni Office that
Robert O. Bentley, Jr., LL.B., ’26, is engaged in the
general practice of law in association with Rex Blaine
Altschuler, with offices in the Peoples Trust and Guar-
anty (Co. Bldg., Hackensack, N. J.

[ 14]

 

T 7 OD: ae ea

Paw Os te Ja Zo. ee

Le (Gaines Visits New Orleans, Dallas, Fort Worth, San

Antonio, Washington, Pittsburgh, Bris-

Many Alumni ul

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

On January 23, 1932, the Louisiana Alumni Asso-
ciation of Washington and Lee University gave a din-
ner in New Orleans in honor of Dr. Francis Pendle-
ton Gaines, the president of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The occasion was a most enjoyable one and
was attended by a large number of alumni.

After the reading of a communication from Dean
Henry Campbell of Washington and Lee University
which told the alumni in what high esteem Dr. Gaines
was held and appreciated by the Faculty and Student
Body, Dr. Hugh Mercer Blain, president of the alumni,
called upon Professor Douglas Anderson, the dean of
Engineering at Tulane University, to introduce Dr.
Gaines, who then spoke most impressively upon the high
standard of the University emphasizing the fact that no
American college could lay claim to more distinguished
alumni than Washington and Lee University.

Dr. Gaines spoke of the romance of the University
based upon its earliest traditions which have permeated
the campus for the last 182 years. He also stated
that he believed in the limitation of the number of stu-
dents and the selection of such applicants who would
be responsive to the purposes of the institution and up-
hold the sacred regard for the honor system which has
been steadfastly maintained for the past century.

Furthermore, Dr. Gaines spoke in no uncertain
terms of the value of athletics to the University and
the part that football plays in the relative standing in
the education of the youth as well as the character
building of the individual. He was of the impression
that a football team of high quality and ability not only
adds prestige but credit to the University.

During the evening Dr. William Woolfolk called
the attention of the association to the Alumni Magazine
that is published by the University for the benefit to the
alumni as a chronicle of the social and academic life
of the University and asked their cooperation in sup-
porting the same.

Mr. Elmore Dufour was elected president of the
Louisiana Alumni Association to succeed Dr. Blain
who held that office for the past three years in a most
creditable and able manner and who has been most
efficient and untiring in his efforts to maintain the
traditions of the University and to promote good fel-
lowship among its members. The association also elected
Dr. Ludo Von Meysenbug vice-president, and William
K. Gladney secretary and treasurer.

Other Meetings.

Those peresent were: William McF. Alexander,
’°84; Douglas S. Anderson, 90; T. L. Bauer, ’30; Wil-
liam A. Bell, 95; H. M. Blain, 95; James Melvin
Boyd, Jr., ’26; Oscar H. Briedenbach, ’11; Lucius
L. Davidge, ’28; Thos. E. Davenport; E. E. Dufour,
22; Benj. C. Eastwood, ’29; Wm. K. Gladney,
'25; Thomas L. Harris, ’27; F. P. Hamilton, 97; Bor-
roughs Hill; Herbert Jahncke, ’30; John G. McClure,
'28; E. L. McLellan; Dr. C. C. McNeill; Dr. Ludo
von Meysenbug; R. C. Milling, 08; C. E. Nilhuss, ’29;
Wm. H. Ogden, ’21; B. Palmer Orr, ’20; D. W. Pipes,
guest; J. M. Robinson; W. F. Smith, ’26; J. W.
Smither, Jr.; William C. Watson, Jr., ’29; Ollie B.
Webb; Thorne Webb, ’29; W. L. O. Whaley; Jack A.
Williamson, *30; John M. Wisdom, ’25; Norton L.
Wisdom, ’27; William B. Wisdom, ’21; Dr. Wm. L.
Woolfolk, ’25.

 

DALLAS, TEXAS

Mr. Harry K. Young,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Dear Cy:

I have your letter of February 3, requesting detail-
ed information regarding Dr. Gaines’ visit to Dallas.
At the outset, let me say that there were only three mis-
takes made in connection with his visit. First, there
is no 8:30 train from San Antonio, therefore we missed
Dr. Gaines at the station. Second, we failed to invite
a newspaper man to the meeting in order to get more
publicity. Third, the radio announcer introduced Ros-
ser “T.”” Coke instead of Rosser J. Coke. Outside of the
above things the entire day and the meeting that night
were very successful.

After missing Dr. Gaines at the station, Mr. Coke
and I met him in the Adolphus Hotel. We rescued him
from a crowd of delegates attending a Shoe Convention
who were endeavoring to pin a badge on his lapel, and
escorted him to his rooms. We then went to Terrell
School where Dr. Gaines delivered a most interesting
address to the student body. “Pop” Davis of Terrell
School was very favorably impressed with Dr. Gaines.
Some of the students have told me that the boys were
very much interested in Dr. Gaines and the University.
Mr. Coke and I then took Dr. Gaines to Southern
Methodist University and visited with the Rev. C. C.

[ 15 ]

AO oD Vw oN

Selecman. Dr. John W. Boyer, ’22, Prof. of English
at Southern Methodist, showed us over the campus and
the buildings.

Dr. Gaines, Mr. Coke, Gaylord Stone and myself
had lunch at the Athletic Club. During the afternoon
Dr. Gaines made several calls and rested at his hotel.

At 7:00 P. M. he spoke over KRL,D for fifteen
minutes having been introduced by Rosser “T.” Coke.
Mr. Stone and I were quite disturbed over the fact that
when Mr. Coke made the introduction, since he and
Stone were such close friends, he might introduce
Stone by mistake, but the introduction went over in
good style and the Doctor made a fine talk. We receiv-
ed quite a bit of comment on the talk and the excellent
manner in which his voice carried over the radio. By
this time there were gathered in the Danish Room at the
Adolphus, some forty Alumni, and the dinner began
about 7 :30.

The meeting was presided over by Mr. Coke, toast-
master, and I might say that he handled the entire affair
in a first-class manner. The first speaker was Judge
Nelson Phillips, former judge of the Supreme Court
of Texas. Judge Phillips is an ardent student of Lee.
His wife is now chairman of a committee seeking to
raise funds for a local memorial to Robert E. Lee.
Judge Phillips spoke of the “Life of General Lee.”
Rev. C. C. Selecman spoke next, praising the Univers-
ity and its tradition, and suggested that the Alumni
should capialize the same to the end that a large amount
of money should be raised in order to enlarge the Uni-
versity and perpetuate its name.

Harry P. Lawther gave us a very amusing talk
concerning his first trip to Washington and Lee in ’74,
which talk was followed by Dr. Gaines’ address. i
don’t believe I have ever seen a group of men more
enthusiastic than those who had the pleasure of hearing
Dr. Gaines. They were intensely interested in the
talk he made, and very much impressed with his pleas-
ing personality.

2 28

It was a pleasure to meet Dr. Gaines, and I enjoyed
the small part I took in getting these men together.

My subscription to the Alumni has expired, and I
wish to have it renewed. Please renew it for me and
advise me the amount of the subscription fee.

With best regards, I am

Yours very truly,
A. A. LANDER.

Those present were:

John E. Bailey, ’28; Elliott Van Horn Bauserman,
18; Rosser J. Coke, ’11; Charles L. Dexter, ’12; R. F.
Garcia, 12; Pinkney Grissom, ’20; James Prior Hieatt,
14; Edison C. Jalonick, 12; Robert H. Jones, Jr., ’27;
Clarence EF. Kennemer, ’28; Samuel Philip Kohen, ’16;
John L. Lancaster, Jr., 28; Sam’l Williamson Lancas-
ter, 29; Alfred Alexander Lander, 18; Harry P. Law-

I

MAGA Zi °-sN@e

ther, 76; George P. Macatee, Jr., 715; William Ken-
nedy Manning, ’23; Samuel W. Marshall, 94; Robert
Wayland Mayo, 95; Perry A. Norman; Clifford Wil-
son McBride, ’30; Fred C. Proctor, Jr.; Frank K.
Rader, ‘05; Chas. Francis Richardson, ’30; Leslie —
Storey Stemmons, ’27; Chas. L. Syron, ‘08; John L. —
Young, 95; Richard Beaton.
From Fort WortH
Clement A. Boaz, 01; Rudy Copeland, ’21; Wyatt —
Cephas Hedrick, 10; John F. Swayne; Harry Chapman
Rand, ’29; Ernest E. Sanders, ’27; C. E. Shropshire,

'24; Judge I. W. Stephens, ’72; Gaylord J. Stone, 710; —

Eddie Parks Davis, *15, Wichita Falls.

Mr. E. C. Stone and Ray Nesbitt, each having
sons in the University. Hamilton Lee and John Jack-
son, members of the firm of Coke and Coke, and Henry ~
C. Coke, Jr., of Yale.

 

FORT WORTH, TEXAS.

February 12, 1932
Mr. H. K. (Cy) Young, Alumni Sec’y.,
Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Lexington, Va.

Dear Mr. Young: 7

I beg to acknowledge recept of your letter of Feb-
ruary 8th and mighty glad indeed to know that Dr.
Gaines was enthusiastic about his trip to Texas. I will
say that all of the Dallas and Fort Worth gentlemen
that came in contact with Dr. Gaines thoroughly and
enthusiastically enjoyed him, he made a wonderful and _
lasting impression and I am sure that his visit is going _
to prove very valuable to Washington and Lee and to
Dr. Gaines personally.

I will not attempt to report the Dallas meeting, I
suppose you have already gotten this from Mr. Lander.

The Fort Worth Alumni Association made up of
the following members gave Dr. Gaines a luncheon at
the Fort Worth Club on Wednesday, January 27th:

Clement A. Boaz, William Lowrie, Boyd, Emmett
Rusk Conner, Rudy Copeland, L. Dillard Estes, Ed-
ward S. Hall, Wyatt Cephas Hedrick, Evan S. McCord,
George E. Miller, Harry C. Rand, Edward K. Rat-
cliff, Ernest E. Sanders, W. B. Sayers, C. E. Shrop- |
shire, I. W. Stephens, James R. Thomas, Gaylord J.
Stone.

In addition we had as special guests the following:

W. E. Connell, chairman of the Board of Directors
of the First National Bank of this city, and grandfather
of Edgar Wallace, who is now a Washington and Lee
student.

E. E. Bewley, president of the Fort Worth Na-
tional Bank.

Jno. P. King, president of the King Candy Com-
pany and one of Fort Worth’s most foremost citizens.

Amon G. Carter, one of Texas’ most outstanding

[ 16 |

T--r-+ 48 A thy A HRN
citizens and owner of the Star-Telegram newspaper.

Geo. W. Polk, one of Fort Worth’s prominent
attorneys.

Rosser J. Coke of Dallas, Texas, also one of Texas’
prominent attorneys and a former Washington and
Lee graduate, class of 1911.

A. A. Lander, of Dallas, Texas, also attended.

Bert K. Smith, prominent grain man and a great
friend of Washington and Lee.

Judge Brice Young, prominent judge.

Sam Canty, Fort Worth attorney and the father
of Sam Canty, Jr., a student of Washington and Lee.

C. E. Shropshire acted as toastmaster and intro-
duced Amon G. Carter, who gave Dr. Gaines an address
of welcome in behalf of the citizenship of Fort Worth
and Dallas. Rosser J. Coke was called on to introduce
Dr. Gaines, in which he briefly covered Dr. Gaines’
rise to the presidency of Washington and Lee.

Dr. Gaines gave a very forceful and interesting
address and I might say that Amon G. Carter, who is
nationally known and possibly has had more oppor-
tunity to hear great men speak, told the writer that Dr.
Gaines was the best speaker it had ever been his privi-
lege to listen to.

I might say, before the meeting adjourned Judge
Stephens made a motion that in view of the fact that
the Democrats had not yet succeeded in finding a
nominee that was quite qualified for the presidency,
that our Alumni Association endorse Dr. Gaines for
this honor, and a motion was immediately seconded
and a unanimous standing vote was given in the af-
firmative and approved and matter of record with the

Fort Worth Alumni Association and other friends have

officially endorsed Dr. Gaines as the next Democratic
nominee for presidency. This was not a joke, for I
believe every member who came in contact with Dr.
Gaines fully feels he has the ability to hold such a posi-
tion and who knows but he may some day be in the

White House.

I might say that one of the most interesting things
in connection with the meeting was presented by Mr.
‘Swain, who was in the class of ’67 and had with him
an excuse written in long hand from General Robert
Ky. Lee, himself, releasing him from class duties. Judge
Stephens was in the class of ’72 and was also under
General Robert E. Lee.

After the meeting adjourned the writer together
with Mrs. Stone had the pleasure of driving Dr. Gaines
over the city, also to see some of his acquaintances and
friends here. We thoroughly enjoyed his trip and
only wish it were possible for him to return often.

Again assuring you that any time Dr. Gaines can
return that all of Texas will welcome him.

Sincerely,
GAYLORD J. STONE

I

Mm: A&G A&A BZ A-Me b

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Alumni of San Antonio and vicinity met for dinner
on the night of January 25th at 6:30 at the Menger
Hotel in honor of Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines.

Albert Steves, Jr., A.B. 1906, president of the
San Antonio Alumni Association was toastmaster.

The following responses were made:

Our Presidents

General C. W. C. Lee—Albert Steves, Sr., 1874.

William Lynne Wilson—Rev. Harry W. Hamilton,
A.B. 1903, Cotulla, Texas.

George Hutcheson Denny—Robert R. Witt, A.B.
1913.

Henry Louis Smith—Joe Clay Roberts, LL.B. ’24.

Now—Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines.

The following Alumni and guests were present :

Frank J. Bosshardt, 07 ; Hubert Eckles, ’30; E. R.
Guenther, 88; James L. Lytle, Jr., ’°27; Thomas W.
Menefee, ’25; Albert Steves, Sr., 77; Albert Steves,
Jr., 06; Harry Trail, °30; Claude Witherspoon, ’28;
R. R. Witt, Jr., °13; Thomas Graves, ’25, Cuero, Texas ;
L. M. McKinnon, ’27; Fred Pearman, ’32; W. C.
Bouldin, Luling, Texas, "98; Rev. Harry Hamilton,
04, Cotulla, Texas; W. W. Palmer, ’27; Lester Fox,
"17; Flavius S$. Downs, ’76, Temple, Texas.

Guests:

H. P. Drought, Jack Guggenheim, Fritz Schilo,
and Dr. F. P. Gaines.

In writing of the occasion W. W. (Mike) Palmer,
secretary, mentions the interesting meeting of Mr.
Albert Steves, Sr., class of ’77, and Mr. Flavius S.
Downs, class of 76, for the first time since they had
left the Washington and Lee campus many years ago.

 

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Washington, D. C.
February 12, 1932
Mr. H. K. Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Dear Cy:

Dr. Gaines arrived in Washington and we had a
very pleasant, although small meeting. We had alto-
gether twenty-one men out. There were some few men
who had decided to come and were unable to do so at
the last minute. ‘The banquet was held at the Lafayette
Hotel at 7:30 o'clock, and Mr. Wade H. Ellis made
an excellent address which was only surpassed by Dr.
Gaines in his usual and inimitable style. The following
men were present.

M. F. Hummer, Woodson P. Houghton, H. Wise
Kelly, Walter H. Dunlay, George McP. Minetree, B.

(7h

See An tb we MeN

C. Flournoy, Wade H. Ellis, E. H. Seal, W. Hill
Brown, A. Dana Hodgdon, B. R. Kennedy, Edmund
Campbell, R. W. Flournoy, Graham N. Lowdon, Dozier
A. DeVane, F. D. Compton, E. S. Dawson, John W.
Warner, Carl B. Knight, Ike Kinsloe, and Torrence
Wolford.

After the meeting was over, we held a general
discussion and a “get together.” We also had an elec-
tion of officers for the ensuing year. I have held
the office of president of the Washington Chapter of
the Washington and Lee Alumni for eight years and
I felt that it was time that I should step aside and let
someone else try their hand at it. I, therefore, insisted
that an election be held and Woodson P. Houghton was
elected to succeed me and Edmund Campbell was elect-
ed secretary-treasurer.

While the meeting was small, we had a splendid
meeting and everyone seemed to enjoy themselves to
the fullest extent. In addressing the Alumni Associa-
tion in the future, of course, you will be guided by the
information furnished herein.

With personal regards and sincere good wishes,
I am

Cordially yours
ELwoop H. SEAL

 

EL_woop H. SEAL, 714

president of the Washington, D.C.
Alumni Association, whose untiring efforts, covering
a period of eight years, have developed that group into
one of our best local associations.

Retiring

I

me. UAC. I AM : @ aia ee

 

EDMUND DovucLas CAMPBELL, ’18

New secretary-treasurer of the Washington, D.
C. Alumni Association.

PITTSBURGH

On Saturday, February 13, at the University Club
in Pittsburgh, an informal dinner in honor of Dr. F.
P. Gaines was given by the Alumni of Washington and
Lee. Due to sickness among some of the old Pittsburgh
“standbys,” the attendance was not quite so large as had
been expected. A further handicap was the absence of
Dr. J. W. Claudy, Pittsburgh Alumni’s leader and mov-
ing spirit. Dr. Claudy, however, wired his regrets from
Bellefonte.

It is doubtful whether any of the Alumni present
had previously met Dr. Gaines; before many minutes
had elapsed, however, he was “one of us.” His frank,
engaging manner, and the air of good fellowship that
radiated from him, won him the admiration of every
man present. His talk on conditions and outlook at Lex-
ington was full of common sense and keen perception.
That old Washington and Lee has again been “most
fortunate” was the consensus of opinion of all present.
An effort will be made to have Dr. Gaines in Pittsburgh
again before the end of the calendar year to address a
monster rally of all Washington and Lee men in West-
ern Pennsylvania.

The meeting adjourned after some discussion of

[ 18 |

FF 38 Ss ABA ee oe CIN
methods of building up greater publicity and Alumni
membership in the Pittsburgh district. A short talk was
given by Major Locke, of the Industrial Relations de-
partment of Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
who was a guest at the dinner.

The following Washington and Lee Alumni were
present:

Charles ‘T. Lyle, Arch S. White, Dr. Chas. Wat-
kins, C. J. Crockett, Joe Shuman, Robert Taylor, Jr.,
John W. Lee, George H. Lee, D. D. Pendleton, Dewey
Reynolds, Dick Sherrill, J. Clyde Whetzel, Chas. P.
Robinson, Dr. T. V. Leatherman, Greensburg, Pa.;
Maurice J. K. Davis, Greensburg, Pa.; George G.
Gregg, Greensburg, Pa.

In addition there were present Messrs. Faulkner,
Musser, and Heatley, all fathers of boys now at Wash-
ington and Lee.

 

BRISTOL, VA.-TENN.

In no other country have so many great men turn-
ed, in the latter years of their life, to the cause of edu-
cation as in America, Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president
of Washington and Lee University, told an audience
of 90 Washington and Lee alumni and their guests at
a Southwest Virginia-East Tennessee alumni meeting
in Bristol on February 23rd.

Citing the connections of Benjamin Franklin with
the University of Pennsylvania, Alexander Hamilton
with Columbia University, Thomas Jefferson with the
University of Virginia, Stonewall Jackson, Matthew
Fontaine Maury and General John A. Lejeune with
Virginia Military Institute, Dr. Gaines spoke eloquent-
ly of these and, linking George Washington and Rob-
ert E. Lee with the university most of his hearers at-
tended, said, “in these great and romantic connections,
your institution is almost supreme.”

At the meeting, held after a banquet at the Gen-
eral Shelby hotel, the alumni elected J. M. Barker, Jr.,
Bristol, president and Hagan Minnick, Bristol, secre-
tary of the Appalachian Association of Washington
and Lee Alumni. ‘Their names were received unan-
imously after the report of the nominating committee,
Jeff Kiser Wise, chairman.

At the outset of his remarks, Dr. Gaines spoke of
his early years in Wytheville and Lebanon, stated that
he had lived in ten states, and concluded to ringing
applause, “I am a Southwest Virginia boy, now and
forever.”

Much of his address was devoted to George Wash-
ington and he made reference to the celebration of the
Bicentennial of Washington’s birth.

“No man had more interests,” he said of Wash-
ington. ‘He was the first great American farmer, the
first considerable agricultural experimenter, a chemist,
a great engineer when engineering was extremely dif-

I

MeASG -AXZ i Nee

ficult, a successful business man and one of the best
informed men in the country.”

Washington deserves all the more praise for his
accomplishments because of the fact that, “most of
what he learned was taught him by a servant in his
father’s home,” Dr. Gaines continued.

‘“Washington’s will contained but three bequests
to philanthropy, all, significantly, for education. One
was to the Free School at Alexandria, another was to
establish a national university, and the third was 100
shares of James River Canal Company stock to the
institution that now bears the name of Washington
and Lee University.”

That stock last year, said Dr. Gaines, bore 6 per
cent interest and “it is this bequest alone that exists
today as Washington intended.”

He concluded with a report that “your university
goes well,” he cited its academic standing, the con-
tinued strength of the honor system, mentioned that
rather than having to seek students, Washington and
Lee “discouraged” 300 applicants last year, and spoke
hopefully of a “renaissance” in athletics.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by Donald T. Stant,
Bristol. J. M. Barker presided, and Judge A. G. Live-
ly, Lebanon, who was general chairman of the gather-
ing, spoke briefly.

Students of Mrs. Jeb Kelly, dancing instructor at
Sullins College, presented a well received entertain-
ment program. Miss Laura Kellogg, accompanied by
Miss Mabel Ann Davis, sang ‘Phyllis Had Such Pretty
Graces,” and “Lying Little Daisy.” A Colonial min-
uet, in costume, was danced by the Misses Jeannette
Dykes, Mary Lillian Hickman, Marjorie Moore, Edith
Brinker, Betty Scott and Dorothy Shaw; Miss Brinker
also gave two tap dance numbers.

Alumni present, with their class year and address:

C. C. Burns, ’01, Lebanon; J. G. Anderson, ’21,
Bristol; H. N. Barker, ’14, Bristol; J. M. Barker, Jr.,
‘11, Bristol; J. P. Collins, 20, Marlon; R. M. Copen-
haver, 22, A. C. Crymble, ’18, Bristol; R. T. Craft,
13, Gate City; F. L. Davis, ’14, Abingdon; J. W.
Davis, ’30, Bristol; L. A. Dunlap, ’22, Pulaski; M. M.
Heuser, ’29, Norton; R. M. Fleshman, ’21, Elizabeth-
ton; H. A. Jones, °17, Bristol; H. J. Kiser, ’17, Leba-
non; R. P. London, Jr., ’26, Johnson City; W. H.
Nickels, 10, Gate City; C. R. McCoy, Clintwood; Ha-
gan Minnick, ’24, Bristol; H. G. Peters, ’17, Bristol ;
Fred C. Parks, ’21, Abingdon; H. C. Pobst, ’06,
Grundy; Chalmers Owen, ’25, Bristol; I. M. Quillen,
'24, Lebanon; FE. P. Rose, ’21, Clintwood; L. B. Rouse,
’23, Bristol; A. C. Smeltzer, ’29, Abingdon; J. Robert
Smith, ’26, Bristol; D. T. Stant, ’09, Bristol; A. C.
Tipton, 32, Elizabethton; J. W. Wright and Edward
Wright, ’29, Bristol; W. G. Werth, °15, Bristol; and
M. W. Vicars, ’21, Wise.

Alumni introduced themselves and the ones next

[ 19 ]

tum BS DD we. Be

to them. Mr. Fleshman was applauded with his in-
troduction of Mr. Tipton, as “the next Congressman
from the First Tennessee district.”

 

HUNTINGTON, W. VA.

January 23, 1932
Mr. H. K. Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Lexington, Virginia.

My Dear Cy:

I have for acknowledgment your letter of Janu-
ary 20, 1932, for which I thank you, and I have to ad-
vise you that we had a very enthusiastic meeting of the
local Alumni on January 19, in honor of General Robert
E.. Lee’s birthday, and at which meeting there were
twenty-one present, including four or five from Ash-
land. This was rather an informal meeting held at
seven o’colck P. M. at the Frederick Hotel, and one of
the main objects was to plan a celebration for Wash-
ington’s birthday.

It was decided at this meeting that we have such
a celebration and an Auxiliary Committee, to the regu-
lar Executive Committee, was appointed for this pur-
pose, Rev. EK. W. MacCorkle of Ashland, being appoint-
ed as chairman of this special Auxiliary Committee.
It was our plan to invite the Honorable Newton D.
Baker, and also to invite the Charleston and all Alumni
in the Tri-State section to meet with us. In the event
that Mr. Baker could come, we would have a distinctive
Washington and Lee banquet in the early evening and
later a public meeting and address to be held in the
City Hall.

Of course it may be that Mr. Baker will be unable
to be with us on this occasion, and a motion went further
that we should have such a celebration regardless, and
in event that Mr. Baker could not come, we should in-
vite a member of the faculty to come out and join with
us in this celebration. This is being worked out, as
above stated, by the committee, and I should be glad to
have any ideas that may occur to you in connection
with it.

With my kindest personal regards, I am

Very sincerely yours,
Joe Fircnert

The following is a list of those present:

Wm. T. Lovins, ’14; T. Seldon Jones, ’20; R. P.
Asbury, 23; Francis McNeer; Phillip P. Gibson, ’13
and *15; J. W. Dingess, ’21; J. E. Moore, ’19; H. E.
Fagan; S. S. McNeer, 16; Dr. L. W. Gilkison, ’18;
Geo. W. Keller, 04; F. M. Bailey, ’20; R. L. Beuh-
ring, 14; G. D. Mayor, ’26; J. W. Fitchett, ’24; J. T.
McVay, ’24; all of Huntington. West Virginia.

T. J. C. Mayo, ’28; J. F. Strother, ’21; E. W. Mac-
Corkle, Jr., ’26; Dr. E. W. MacCorkle, ’74; A. W.
Mann, °15; all of Ashland, Ky.

a? a Re ee es ee ee

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.

February 1, 1932
Mr. H. K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,

Dear Cy:

Just a line to tell you about the Alumni meeting
here on the 26th, so that you might know what is going
on. In order to say this in as few words as possible,
Iam attaching hereto a copy of a letter which was
written to all of the absent members the day following
the meeting and which gives a brief outline of what
took place.

We had as our guests that night the following
members of the present General Assembly, all of whom
are Alumni of the University:

Senator John W. Eggleston, Norfolk; Senator
Vivian Page, Norfolk; Representative W. H. Scott,
Roanoke; Representative Earle Cadmus, Portsmouth;
Representative S$. J. Thompson, Campbell County.

We are now making plans for our February 22nd
meeting, which will be for the purpose of electing new
officers for the coming year, and we are also working
towards a big meeting later on in the spring, at which
time we hope to have Mr. Newton D. Baker as our
guest of honor.

The Lucky Strike radio program was very enjoy-
able and seems to have created very wide comment in
Richmond, which will assuredly be to the benefit of
Washington and Lee. I enjoyed hearing your voice
over a nation-wide hook-up, and that final salutation
to Eddie Parks Davis has caused as much comment
in Richmond as anything else.

Hoping you can be with us on the 22nd, I am

Sincerely yours,
JosErpH E. Birnie
Secretary and Treasurer

 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN

February 15, 1932
Mr. Harry K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee,

My dear Cy:

I’m just back from the first Washington and Lee
alumni luncheon of 1932 in Detroit.

Present at the luncheon were Dr. Edward Lyons,
‘12, and Mr. Claude S. Fitzpatrick, ’94.

The luncheon was a great success. We started off
talking about Washington and Lee. Mr. Fitzpatrick
left there about 40 years ago; Mr. Lyons left half as
long ago. I didn’t know anybody except Dean Camp-
bell who was there 40 years ago, and a lot of ’em who
were there 20 years ago I didn’t know.

But we got along famously because along about
the meat course it was disclosed that Dr. Lyons is the

[ 20 ]

 

te 2 ~ b> Ye MO
author of a new system of bidding contract bridge, and
Mr. Fitzpatrick is quite interested in it. For a minute
it looked as if things were going to be at loggerheads
because I am a disciple of the official system as ex-
pounded by Kerwin. The thing ironed-out magnifi-
cently, however, because we were in perfect agreement
that Ely Culbertson is a clap-trap, stodgy bridge player
with an unsound system.

So, we got on famously—for two hours.

Mr. Fitzpatrick is a banker and Dr. Lyons is one
of the chemists at Parke-Davis company here.

I’m going out of town this week for a week or so,
but when I get back we're going to have another meet-
ing, this time with all the alumni in town if they’ll
come.

And that’s that.

Cordially yours,
WitiiAmM L. MaApPEt

P.S.—I did tell them about the freshman football
team and one or two other things.

 

ENTERTAINS FOR DR. GAINES.

Dr. and Mrs. Hugh M. Blain were hosts in the
late afternoon, Friday, January 22, at a tea, entertain-
ing very charmingly at their home on State street in
honor of Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee University and a prominent vis-
itor in New Orleans.

The reception rooms of the home were decorated
with the greatest quantity of evergreens and cut flow-
ers suggestive of New Orleans and the tea-table, set
in the dining-room, was exquisite with a centerpiece of
pink roses and pale pink lighted tapers in silver holders
and rich settings.

Mrs. Blain wearing a handsome gown of egg-
shell colored crepe and antique jewelry in gold, black
and white, and her young daughter, Miss Martha Blain,
a frock of turquoise blue satin, were assisted in receiv-
ing by Dr. Blain, Dr. Gaines. Dr. and Mrs. A. D. Din-
widdie, Professor and Mrs. Douglas Anderson, Dr. and
Mrs. William McF. Alexander, Dr. and Mrs. George
King Logan, Mr. and Mrs. Petrie Hamilton and Mr.
and Mrs. H. M. Blain, Jr.

Alternating at the tea-table, pouring tea and coffee
from either end, were Mrs. Woodruff George, Mrs.
John S. Kendall, Mrs. James E. Winston, and Mrs.
Archie M. Smith. The tea girls included Misses Kath-
erine Smith, Elizabeth Kendall, Dorothy Benedict and
Clara Mae Buchanan. There was a delightful gather-
ing of friends calling all through the tea hour and the
affair was a lovely event of the week.—Times Picayune.

 

Dr. George West Diehl, ’13, was guest minister of
the First Presbyterian church of Houston, Texas, for
the month of January.

I

ee a ee 2 Pe

H. M. BLAIN, ’94.

“The Spur,” issued by the Mutual Life Insurance
Co., of New York contains the following:

H. M. Blain has been appointed service represen-
tative of the New Orleans Agency, effective December

 

Hucu M. BLaAIn

15, 1931. Dr. Blain, who is a M.A. from the Wash-
ington and Lee University and a Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia, assumes this position with a plenti-
ful supply of knowledge and experience which renders
him thoroughly competent for such a position.

lor a number of years, Dr. Blain occupied the
Chair of Journalism at Tulane University and that of
Journalism and English at the Louisiana State Uni-
versity. He has had ten years’ experience as manager
of the advertising and publicity departments in several
large concerns in Louisiana.

Since April, 1930, he has been a soliciting agent
for the Mutual Life, during which time he has taken
a special course in Life Insurance at Loyola Univers-
ity. Many of the field men have enjoyed reading his
brochure “Making Good With The Mutual,” and have
complimented him highly on this accomplishment.

The management feels confident that Dr. Blain
is well equipped for the position of Service Represen-
tative and that he will perform his new duties in an
expert manner.

Mr. Blain has just retired as president of the New

[ 21 |

mee oO eee Re = Ee | ee

Orleans Alumni Association, after many years of faith-
ful and untiring service.

 

PRESIDENT OF BAKER CLUB.

Mayor Frank Nighswonger, B.L. ’89, of Wichita,
Kansas, was elected president of the Fifth District
Baker-for-President Club at a meeting of Baker Dem-
ocrats held recently at the Lessen Hotel in Wichita.

The purpose of the Fifth District Baker Club was
outlined by Mr. Nighswonger and associates at the
meeting as follows:

“We believe there is a very strong sentiment in
Kansas that Newton D. Baker be drafted for the Demo-
cratic nomination. He is a liberal and to our mind is
the Democrat we best could support for the nomination.
This movement is being started to promote the candi-
dacy of Mr. Baker and to fight no other Democrats in
the State. We know that some of the Democrats
would have the Democratic standard bearer a man other
than Mr. Baker and that is their privilege, the same as
ours to support Mr. Baker. We believe the Kansas
delegation to the national convention should include
some delegates favorable to the nomination of Mr.
Baker from the start in order to properly represent the
Baker sentiment in the state.

“It is our purpose to have Baker-for-President
Clubs organized in the Fifth district counties, and to
cooperate with the other Baker-for-President Clubs or-
ganized in other districts. Through such an organi-
zation we believe the Baker sentiment may be brought
out and at the state Democratic convention delegates
selected to work for the Baker candidacy at the national
convention.

“Mr. Baker is one of the leading liberals of the
country, a man who has a wonderful record of achieve-
ment in public office and one who is best fitted to lead
the country out of the present depression turmoil. We
believe the Republican party has demonstrated its lack
of leadership and program, and that at the November
election a Democrat will be elected president. To our
minds Mr. Baker is best fitted among the group of able
Democratic leaders to serve as chief executive of the
country.”

 

J. DeWEESE CARTER, LL.B. ’27

Queen Anne’s county bootleggers, booze manufac-
turers or rum-runners who may be apprehended by
Federal Prohibition Enforcement officers this year, will
have scant opportunity to plead “first offense” if they
are seasoned offenders, for they will be brought be-
fore the same man who for several years has been re-
ceiving visits from those who flaunt the dry statutes.

He is United States District Commissioner J. De-
Weese Carter or Judge William C. Coleman. Com-
missioner’s activities have been of an exceptionally

I

MAG A ZtIN

gratifying and wholesome character, and as a result his
re-appointment for many months had been regarded
as a foregone conclusion.

Since his graduation in law at Washington and
Lee University at Lexington, Virginia, in 1927, Mr.
Carter, the son of Mr. and Mrs. John T. Carter, has
been a member of the Caroline county bar with offices —
in Denton. He is affiliated with the Republican party. —

During the period he has filled the post of U. S. —

District Commissioner, nearly 100 Queen Anne’s coun-

tians have been arraigned before him.

 

DR. FLICK ELECTED PRESIDENT

Dr. Walter A. Flick, ’24, of the Department of
Psychology and Education was elected president of the —
Department of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the
Virginia Educational Association. 7

The Virginia Educational Association meets an- —
nually at Richmond during the Thanksgiving week. —
Dr. Flick’s election is for the year of 1932.

This group has undertaken for the current year —
the problem of qualifications of high school students —
for college, certification marks, and the principal’s rec- |
ommendation of fitness for college. Washington and —
Lee has for a number of years attempted to set up en- —
trance requirements other than the usual 15 units of
high school work. It is hoped that there will result

from this mutual study by high school and college —

leaders a-better plan of selecting high school graduates
capable of profiting by college work.

 

ONE OF OUR OLDEST ALUMNI

Robert E. Lee was directing the affairs of Wash- —
ington and Lee University when Isaac P. Bledsoe, now
nearing his eighty-fifth birthday, was a student in the
Class of ’71. It was while Mr. Bledsoe was in his third
year at college that the Civil War leader passed away.

Mr. Bledsoe is ranked as one of the oldest living
graduates of Washington and Lee. He is living at
5801 East Fifth Place, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

 

FOUNDER’S DAY SPEAKER

Founder’s Day speaker at the University Assembly
January 19th, Frederick Wilhelm von Prittzwitz und —
Gaffron, German Ambassador to the United States, —
said that Lee’s advice in 1865 for every citizen to do —
all in his power to restore peace and harmony is es-
pecially necessary today.

He said: “No better advice could be given to citi-
zens of all countries, as the aftermath of war seems to
be just as great a catastrophe as a war itself.”

 

Arthur Cromwell, ’17, was a visitor to the Uni- —
versity recently with his wife and boy.

[ 22 ]

| 7 A i Soe aN

M A & “A 2 3 tes

George Washington Celebration, April 12

HAT promises to be one of the notable oc-
W casions in University history is the Washing-

ton celebration to be held on the campus on
April 12, 1932.

This day commemorates the date in 1797 when
the trustees changed the name from Liberty Hall
Academy to Washington Academy as a result of Wash-
ington’s generous endowment. This gift of George
Washington to the University represents his largest
investment in education and one of the greatest dona-
tions for this cause in American history up to the time
it was given.

The University is the logical agency, therefore, to
feature in this commemorative year a recognition of
Washington’s interest in education as a whole, as well
as his significant assistance to our own institution in
the days of its early struggles. The celebration has
been planned as a memorial not only to Washington’s
part in the history of this institution but also to his
broad and generous attitude toward the process of ed-
ucation.

Several organizations of national prominence are
cooperating with the University in an effort to make
this a worthy occasion. In particular the Virginia So-
ciety of the Cincinnati, which drew its inspiration from
Washington, the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion, the Mount Vernon Ladies Association, and other
organizations intimately connected with Washington
have entered into the plans for the day.

An effort has been made to have the definite pro-
gram as varied and as interesting as possible. ‘There
will be a general convocation in the morning at which
time certain commemorative addresses will be made,
notably an interpretation of Washington by Dr. Dixon
R. Fox, professor of American History at Columbia
University and president of the New York Historical
Society. At this same time the University will confer
five honorary degrees upon distinguished Americans
who have through the channels of different activities
contributed to a larger understanding of Washington
or a better appreciation for him.

At a special luncheon for invited guests brief
greetings will be brought from representatives of dis-
tinguished organizations, including Governor John
Garland Pollard of Virginia, President E. EK. Hume of
the Virginia Society of the Cincinnati, Mrs. Lowell
Fletcher Hobart, president of the Daughters of the
American Revolution, and Mr. John Hill Morgan of
New York, foremost authority on Washington por-
traiture.

In addition to the formal program, various fea-

tures of particular interest to the lovers of Washing-
ton will be provided, including an exhibit of Washing-
ton material. Alumni of the University will have pe-
culiar interest in seeing the original deed from Wash-
ington giving the stock in the James River Canal Com-
pany, and a letter from Washington acknowledging the
change of name in his honor.

The general arrangements for the celebration are
in the hands of a committee of the trustees, composed
of Hon. John W. Davis, chairman, Hon. Newton D.
Baker, Judge Louis S. Epes, Mr. William McC. Mar-
tin, and Mr. Harrington Waddell, with the rector of
the Board and the president of the University as ex-
officio members. ‘The faculty committee is composed
of Dr. R. H. Tucker, Dr. H. D. Campbell, Dr. James
Lewis Howe, Dr. D. B. Easter, Prof. F. J. Gilliam,
Dr. L. C. Helderman, Professor C. P. Light, Dr. L.
J. Desha.

A number of leading American citizens who are
not alumni of the University have manifested their
interest in the project by accepting appointment as
honorary vice-chairmen of the occasion. They are as
follows:

New York

Newcomb Carlton, president Western Union Tel-
egraph Company; John H. Finley, editor of the New
York Times; W. W. Hawkins, vice-chairman of
board, Scripps-Howard Newspapers; David F. Hous-
ton, ex-sceretary of Treasury and Agriculture; Henry
Morgenthau, Jr., commissioner, Conservation Depart-
ment; Adolph Ochs, publisher, New York Times; Mar-
len EX. Pew, editor, The Editor and Publisher; Owen
D. Young.

NEw JERSEY

Charles Lathrop Pack, president American Tree
Association.

PENNSYLVANIA

Mrs. Edward Bok, Mrs. William A. Glasgow, Wil-
liam A. Law, president, The Penn Mutual Life In-
surance Co.

ILLINOIS

Frank O. Lowden, ex-governor of Illinois.

MASSACHUSETTS ,
Edward A. Filene, president, William Filene’s
Sons Co.; Edgar J. Rich.
District OF COLUMBIA

Horace M. Albright, director, U. S. National Park
Service; Mrs. Fairfax Harrison, Mt. Vernon Ladies
Association; Mrs. L. F. Hobart, president-general

[ 23 |

s Ik A dk AL. Te. N

National Society Daughters of the American Revo-
lution.
MARYLAND

Daniel Willard, president, The Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Co.

VIRGINIA

John Garland Pollard, Governor; R. H. Angell,
president, Shenandoah Life Insurance Co.; John
Stewart Bryan, president, The Richmond News Leader ;
Homer L. Ferguson, president, Newport News Ship-
building and Dry Dock Co.; Junius P. Fishburn, pres-
ident, Roanoke ‘Times-World Corporation; Carter
Glass, U. S. Senator; John A. Lejeune, superinten-
dent, Virginia Military Institute; A. J. Montague, ex-
governor of Virginia; R. Walton Moore, congress-
man; W. T. Reed, president, Larus and Bro. Tobacco
Company.

Nortu CAROLINA

O. Max Gardner, Governor.

ALABAMA
Victor H. Hanson, president,
New; Oscar Wells, president, First
Birmingham.

The Birmingham

National Bank of

 

H. ST. G. T. CARMICHAEL
Kyrock, Ky.
Febraury 11, 1932
Mr. Harry K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.
My dear Cy:

I was glad to get your letter of January 15th,
which came while my family and myself were basking
in the sunshine at Miami Beach, Florida. On leaving
Florida, we drove over through New Orleans and were
terribly disappointed to hear that we had missed meet-
ing Dr. Gaines at the Alumni Banquet, by just one
day. He, as usual, seems to have made a most favor-
able impression and I am sure that these visits and
addresses which he is making to Alumni in various
cities will result in a wonderful amount of good toward
cementing the Alumni together, keeping them in touch
and causing them to send the best possible men back to
Washington and Lee.

I am enclosing a clipping from the Times Picayune
relative to the Fancy Dress Ball. Suppose you have
seen a dozen of these but am taking the chance. Have
heard nothing but the most favorable comments relative
to the Fancy Dress Ball and the broadcast made from
one of these dances. It seems to have reached the far
corners of the earth and everyone agrees that the Swing
was never played with more pep than it was that night.

Have you heard that “Red” Hawkins has joined
the Benedicts, having married Miss Todd of Lakeland,

I

mM IA G AA Z@ at UN &
Florida, last Saturday? I believe that young Todd
of this year’s freshman team is her brother.

I am wondering whether you all realize what a
great chance Newton D. Baker has for the presidential
nomination. He is without question the best man in
the field and I think now is the time for every W. and
[,. man to roll up his sleeves and get to work for him.
My opinion is that there will be quite a fight in the con-

 

H. Sr. G. T. CARMICHAEL

vention and Mr. Baker is the logical candidate for a
compromise. I find that most Democrats and a great
many Republicans are strong for him and will sup-
port him. I had a mighty nice personal letter from
him a short time ago.

I hope everything is running smoothly for you.
Have been watching the outcome of the basketball
games with great interest, and believe we will make a
better showing at the Tournament than we have been
making during the season.

Please remember me kindly to our mutual friends.

With every good wish, I am

Sincerely yours,
H. Sr. G. T. CARMICHAEL

 

Of the score of men endoresd or recommended to
President Hoover for appointment to the United States
Supreme Court to fill the vacancy due to the resignation
of Justice Holmes, four of them were law graduates
of Washington and Lee. The four are John W. Davis,
Newton D. Baker, D. Lawrence Groner and Henry W.
Anderson.

[ 24 ]

 

T wa i A di A mt UN

” AG AA 2a @

Alumni in Virginia’s General Assembly

P TO OUR going to press the following alum-
ni have been featured in a column in the Rich-

U nond Times-Dispatch entitled ‘Personalities

in Virginia’s General Assembly.”

 
 
  

T. RUSSELL CATHER

T. Russell Cather, first cousin once removed of the
world-famous novelist, Willa Cather, and a baseball
player of such enthusiasm that he continued to take an
active part in the sport until a year ago, comes to the
Virginia Legislature for the first time as Senator from
the counties of Shen-
andoah, Clarke, Fred-
erick and the City of
Winchester.

The Winchester
solon began playing
ball when a student at
Shenandoah Valley
Academy, where he
was a member of the
academy nine. When
he entered Washing-
ton and Lee Univers-
ity, he had such a
heavy schedule of
studies that he was
prevented from tak-
ing any part in athlet-
ics. He got his A.B.
degree there in three
years and his law degree in two.

But when he returned to Winchester, following his
graduation in 1910, and began the practice of law, he
was still so fond of the national pastime that he con-
tinued to take a part in amateur baseball games. Until
last year, when he had passed his 42nd birthday and his
red hair was getting pretty thin on top, Mr. Cather con-
tinued to play in the outfield on local teams around
Winchester.

“T never was particularly hot as a ball player,” he
said the other day, “but I certainly love the game.”

In addition to playing baseball, Senator Cather
enjoys slipping over to the Shenandoah River from
Winchester now and then and hooking a small-mouthed
black bass. He expects to devote more time to fishing,
now that he has quit the diamond.

For sixteen years he was Commonwealth’s at-
torney of Frederick county. During the war he served
as a second lieutenant of infantry, but didn’t get over-

 

seas. At present, he is a bank director in Winchester
and is especially interested in legislation designed to
give the state better control over highway traffic and
in the reduction of criminal costs.

WILLIAM A. WRIGHT

Senator William A. Wright of Tappahannock is
famous for various things, including his herculean feat
of setting his own nose after it was broken by a truck
which ran over him at Camp Wadsworth, S. C., during
the war. The truck also broke his arm and his leg.
He had to call in a oa
doctor before setting
those, but he fixed his
proboscis up all by
himself while he was
lying on the ground.
It has been working
well ever since.

Senator Wright
is also famous for his
victory last year over
Senator R. H. Stubbs
of Middlesex, the only
“Hoovercrat” in the
upper branch
of the General As-
sembly. Senator
Stubbs fought ‘AI’
Smith in the presi- ,
dential campaign of — ——_
1928, whereas Mr. Wright, who was then in 1 the House,
was a staunch supporter of the Democratic nominee.
In the recent election, Wright defeated Stubbs by 1,000
majority.

The Tappahannock solon represents the counties
of King and Queen, Middlesex, Gloucester, Mathews,
York and Essex in the Senate. Although he was one
of the youngest members of the House during his six
years of service in that body, he was recognized as
one of its leaders. He was chairman of the Commit-
tee on the Chesapeake and Its Tributaries, which has
charge of all seafood legislation.

“Billy” Wright, as he is known to his friends, is
a native of Tappahannock and he attended the high
school there before he entered Washington and Lee
University. At that institution he took the B.A. de-
gree and then the LL.B., the latter degree being award-
ed him in 1916.

He enlisted in 1917, upon the outbreak of war

 

[ 25 ]

> ws is A th. 47 ee ae
with the central powers, and was commissioned a first
lieutenant. He served overseas a year, and upon being
mustered out, resumed the practice of law. In 1924,
he was elected to the House of Delegates and was re-
elected continuously thereafter. until he ran for the
Senate in 1931.

While Senator Wright is fond of duck-shooting, and
keeps several blinds on the Rappahannock, he is no
fisherman.

“I’ve lived on the water all my life, but I’d just
as soon catch butterflies as go fishing,” he says.

VIVIAN L. PAGE

Vivian L. Page, senior member of the Norfolk
delegation in the House of Delegates, is a member of
a family of lawyers. Born in Norfolk in 1894, Mr.
Page attended public schools of that city and entered
Washington and Lee University for academic work
and the study of law,
graduating there in 1915.

Shortly after return-
ing to Norfolk, he be-
came a member of the
law firm in which his
father, Ivor A. Page,
and his brother were
partners.

Mr. Page’s father is
an Englishman by birth
who came to this coun-
try shortly after the war
Between the States as
an ardent admirer of the
Confederate cause and
the political and _ philo-
sophical principles of
Thomas Jefferson. The
elder Page trained his three sons to follow him in the
law. At present R. J. B. Page, one of the sons, is
associate civil justice in Norfolk; Ivor A. Page, Jr., is
now practicing law, and was once a member of the
House of Delegates, and Vivian, the youngest, is ac-
knowledged leader of the liberal forces in the House.
He has served regularly as a delegate from Norfolk
since 1922.

Mr. Page has a son who is now in the Maury
High School in Norfolk.

“The boy tells me,” Mr. Page said, “that he’s going
to follow the family tradition and study law with the
rest of us.”

Mrs. Page, before her marriage, was Miss Anne
Miller of Norfolk.

Aside from his activity in the practice of law, Mr.
Page finds time to do some golfing and swimming, with
an occasional fling with the gun and dog. He insists

 

I

MA GA 2 Hi ae
that his attendance on sports does not keep him from
being primarily a student of things in general.

During the present session, Mr. Page has gained
the distinction of being the patron of the bill which
has thus far called forth great opposition; namely, the
bill amending the state prohibition law.

Numbers of persons who haunt the Capitol dur-
ing the legislature look on the senior Norfolk dele-
gate as something of a playboy, but his friends say he
is probably the best example of a family man in the
General Assembly, hinting that the only time he gets
out at night is when the legislature is in session.

But whatever his domestic and personal habits,
Mr. Page takes pride in the fact that the Virginia Bar
Association and the State Judicial Council have suffi-
cient confidence in his professional ability to introduce
legislation sponsored by them through him. Mr. Page
is also chairman of the House Committee on Courts o
Justice. wf

Among other things, Mr. Page is to be counted
among those members of the General Assembly whose
sense of humor can be depended on to enliven debates
on dull subjects, a distinction which he wears with the
same nonchalance as he does all the others.

WALTER H. SCOTT

Walter H. Scott of Roanoke city is one of the
three members of the House of Delegates who are only
twenty-nine years old, the other two being Edward L.
Oast of Portsmouth, and Langhorne Jones of Chatham.
With Blair J. Fishburne of Roanoke he was elected
last year on a platform
of hostility to Judge
John M. Hart of that
city.

Delegate Scott
has been practicing
law since 1924, the
year he received his
law degree _ from
Washington and Lee
University. Prior to
that time he attended
Roanoke High school
and was at the Vir-
ginia Polytechnic In-
stitute for the session
of 1920-21.

The youthful
member from _ the
Magic City has no eS
particular hobby, he says. He doesn’t spend any time
on the golf links, nor does he roam the fields in search
of game during the hunting season. Neither does he
emulate President Hoover and heave a medicine ball

 

[ 26 |

 

TT _-$tt

Tt; 28 & te ee oe eS
for exercise at 7. A. M.

Mr. Scott says he gets his exercise here and there,
by walking. He is a regular listener over the radio,
but he dislikes crooners, boop-boop-a-doopers and Amos
‘n’ Andy. Asked what kind of a radio program ap-
pealed to him most, he said: “That broadcast of the
Jackson Day dinner suited me down to the ground.”

He is especially interested in removing the second
5 per cent penalty for delinquent taxpayers, since he
feels that such a penalty “is a tax on poverty which
falls on the man least able to bear it.” He is also in-
terested in abolishing the fee system in Roanoke city,
and will urge at the current session a change in the
charter to put all fee officers on a salary basis, their
fees going into the city treasury.

 

O. D.. K. TAPS NEW MEMBERS

Self government and the development of extra-
curricula activities were said by President Francis P.
Gaines, of Washington and Lee University, February
10, to be the most significant educational development
during the last half century.

“The supreme forces which move the world reside
in personality,” he said, “and its recognition and devel-
opment is the end of education.”

His remarks were made at a student convocation
when seventeen students, two alumni and one faculty
member were tapped by Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fratrenity.

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, 02, Richmond, and
Carter Glass, Jr., 12, Lynchburg, were the alumni tap-
ped and initiated. John A. Graham, romance language
professor and director of the Glee Club, was the fac-
ulty member named.

R. D. Malone, president of O. D. K., traced the or-
ganization’s history on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus since its inception in 1914.

Patrick J. Hurley, secretary of war, who was to
speak and be initiated, cancelled his acceptance because
of the international situation which prevented his leav-
ing Washington.

 

DR. SIDNEY T. MORELAND, ’74-’76

Dr. Sidney Turner Moreland, one of the few re-
maining students who attended Washington College
during the presidency of General Robert E. Lee, died
at a hospital in Knoxville, Tenn., early Friday morning.
He had been vigorous until he was stricken fifteen days
before his death. Dr. Moreland was well known in
Lexington where he was educated, married, and lived
for a number of years. He had been a lifelong mem-
ber of the Methodist church and a steward in his home
church. Following the funeral services at the home
Saturday he was taken to Baltimore for burial.

Dr. Moreland was born November 27, 1852, at

I

Mw Ae AOR EO
Americus, Ga. He came to Lexington near the close
of the presidency of General Robert E. Lee, and was
graduated in 1874 with the degree of bachelor of
science, and in 1876 with the degree of master of
science. Washington and Lee honored him in 1907 with
the degree of LL.D., and during his student days he was
a recipient of a number of prizes and scholarships. He
was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity,
and was a member of the Washington and Lee chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Moreland was a member of the Washington
and Lee faculty as McCormick professor of natural
philosophy from 1880 to 1898, and dean of the Uni-
versity during the last two years of his professorship.
He went from here to become principal of the Mc-
Donogh School for Boys in Maryland, a school en-
dowed with $10,000,000 at Baltimore by John Mc-
Donogh of New Orleans. He remained at this school
until 1914 when he was called to the University of
Tennessee as professor of physics and dean of the pre-
medical courses of the university. He retired in 1926
and was one of three professors to be honored with the.
title of professor emeritus of the University of Ten-
nessee.

The Knoxville News-Sentinel pays Dr. Moreland
a handsome tribute, mentioning particularly his modes-
ty as distinctive in his personality. He continued a
vigorous interest in life after his retirement, continuing
his experiments in physics and mechanics.

Dr. Moreland married at Lexington June 27, 1882,
Miss Sally P. Leyburn, a daughter of Edward J. Ley-
burn, whose home still stands on North river near
Lexington. ‘They would have celebrated their golden
wedding anniversary in June. He is survived by his
widow, one son, and two daughters; Edward L. More-
land of Boston, Mrs. John W. Card and Miss Elizabeth
F. Moreland of Knoxville. A brother and sister also
survive, W. W. Moreland and Mrs. Lela Meadors of
Homer, La.

 

SAMUEL RUTHERFORD, ’92

Samuel Rutherford, 92, congressman from. the
Sixth Georgia District, died since the opening of Con-
gress. Mr. Rutherford served three terms in the leg-
islature of his state, one term in the state senate, and
was elected to Congress by a large majority. He was
also mayor of Forsyth, Georgia, where he resided,
three times.

 

Mark Stuart, 13, was killed in an automobile ac-
cident in Memphis, Tenn., January 17, 1932.

Mr. Stuart was born in Paris, Tenn., and received.
his elementary education in the public schools of that;
city. He later attended Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

[ 27 |

Bam 8 a & Do oe NN

I

MA G AZt few

 

Winter Sports Squads Garner Two

  

ITH the first of March at hand and the stage
W being set for spring sports, a reconsideration
of the indoor season shows that Washington

and Lee had a fair measure of success, despite a disap-
pointing basketball season

For the quintet the year was—comparatively speak-
ing—disastrous, in spite of a few bright spots on the
records. In universities not so used to good court
teams it might be described by a milder term, for
Coach Ray Ellerman’s men won seven out of seventeen
games.

The cage-game debacle was tempered by continued
success in wrestling—Coach A. E. Mathis’ men have the
strongest possible claim to the Southern Conference
championship, and a championship swimming team.
The boxing team won four of six meets, and chiseled
a firm place in the hearts of the fans by its “fighting”
character.

The bad taste of the poor basketball season was
partly removed in the final game, which was staged in
Lexington February 23 with no less an opponent than
Virginia. The Cavaliers were undefeated in the state,
and held an early season rout over the Generals. ‘The
Generals were never in the lead during the regular
period of play, yet as if by a miracle they tied the score
just before the final whistle blew and won out in the
overtime, 21 to 17.

The old rivals, both fighting hard, stalemated each
other in the first half, which ended 8 to 5 in Virginia’s
favor. This lead was increased to 13 to 5 as the second
session began, and many faint-hearts left the gym. The
die-hards who stayed saw the big court thrill of the
season. Bailey, Jarrett, Holbrooke and Sawyers all
popped in baskets in a stirring rally to make it 14 to 16,
still in Virginia’s favor, with three minutes left to go.
Deadlocked, Washington and Lee was strengthened by
several fresh men, one of whom was Billy Wilson of
the Owensboro, Ky., Wilsons.

Fifty seconds remained to play, and the crowd was
in hysterics as Wilson got his hands on the ball for
the first time half way down the court. Calmly posing,
he shot the ball whistling through the net to knot the
score. The spectators broke into bloody sweats as
two Virginia men missed free throws and the game
ended in a tie.

Joe Sawyers popped one in as the extra period be-
gan, giving the Generals a lead for the first time of the
game. Virginia sunk a free shot, but missed a second
chance as Jarrett caged a free one for the Generals.
Wilson then insured victory with another field goal.
In the last five days of the season, thus, the Generals

defeated the champions of Virginia and the champions
of North Carolina. They had beaten Duke the pre-
vious Friday.

A rangy St. Johns’ team opened the year in Dore-
mus gymnasium and trumped W. and L. 22 to 17. A
few nights later came the first victory, 22 to 15 at the
expense of Lenoir-Rhyne. ‘Then came the Southern
Conference champions, Maryland, and the first bright
spot of the year. Expecting an easy victory, they were
outplayed from the start and managed to get a tie at
the end of the regular season, 36 to 36. The first
overtime period ended 37 to 37, but in the second the
champions pulled away to win, 42 to 38.

Virginia found Washington and Lee easy picking
on their own floor the next night, winning 25 to 11, but
by superior foul shooting they won at Blacksburg
later, 22 to 16. Ona western trip St. Xavier and then
Kentucky topped the Generals, 28-23 and 48-28. They
came home and beat N. C. State 20 to 15, but lost a
heartbreaking clash with Duke, 27-30.

The West Virginia classic was played in Beckley,
W. Va., this year, Joe Sawyers’ home town. As it hap-
pened, it was Joe who sewed the game up for the Gen-
erals in the last minute of play, supplying a one-point
margin of victory, 31 to 30. Then William and Mary,
Virginia Conference champions, were easy at Lexing-
ton, falling 31 to 17, and many thought the Generals
had turned the corner.

But they were tripped up at Blacksburg, and routed
at College Park by the Old Liners, 49 to 19. Then they
pulled another great surprise. ‘They traveled to Dur-
ham just after Duke had won the Carolina title by
beating N. C. U. In a great defensive battle they
triumphed 21 to 12. On the two successive nights,
however, N. C. State retaliated with a 30 to 20 win,
and North Carolina chopped them down, 27 to 18.

Then came the final thrill in the home game with
Virginia, and the quintet surrenderd its uniforms, and
they will not attend the tournament at Atlanta. Frank
Bailey, the only man to be lost by graduation, played a
versatile game all the year. Several sophomores and
juniors who return should form a strong nucleus for
next year.

Coach Mathis’ wrestling outfit is the only squad
still active, and they are waiting for the Army invasion
here March 5. The grapplers have turned in five vic-
tories and no defeats, increasing their straight wins to
seventeen over a period of three years. The freshmen
were also undefeated—for the fourth successive year.
All the Southern Conference teams which the varsity
have not met have been defeated excepting V. M. L.,

[ 28 |

 

Ti WE A kt U. M N
who was tied by V. P. I., so the championship seems to
rest in the proper hands.

Johns Hopkins opened the season here, and fell
34 to O without getting time advantage for one second
in any bout. The matmen then traveled to Davidson,
whom they vanquished 25 to 3 with four substitutes in
the line-up. North Carolina—who also claimed the
championship last year when they did not meet the
Generals—fell next, 22 to 8. V. P. I. was thrown 22
to 6 (the freshmen blanked them), and Duke was turn-
ed back 20 to 8.

Evans, veteran bantamweight, won five bouts, as
did Joe Wright, 165 pounder. Abramson won four
and lost none, but had to leave school at the start of the
second semester, and will not be present for the Army
meet in the 125 pound class. Osterman, veteran light-
weight, won two bouts, and lost one to V. P. I. in an
overtime session. Pat Mitchell, star heavyweight,
cleaned up three opponents, while the two others for-
feited to him.

Several new men made creditable showings, and
the sensation of the sophomores was Harvard Smith,
who won his first three bouts by falls, including among
his victims the champion from North Carolina. In his
fourth bout he stepped up a weight—to 155—and won
by an easy time advantage.

Coach Tex Tilson, starting his first year as box-
ing coach, turned out a squad which gained high favor
with the fans, and which won four out of six meets.
Roanoke opened the year here, and were blanked 7 to
O—boxing being a new sport for them.

Traveling to North Carolina, the General mittmen
lost their second meet, 2 to 5. ‘Tilson, who left wrest-
' ling to box under his brother, scored a knockout in the
heavyweight class, but N. C. U. won five decisions to
W. and L.’s one. St. Johns was whipped 6 to 1 in
Lexington after they forfeited three matches.

Before a record crowd at Maryland, the Generals
won 4 to 3, getting three knockouts and a forfeit.
Dick Robertson’s bantamweight opponent said he was
overweight, and Coach Tilson offered to fight him any-
way, but he declined. N.C. State fell by the same
score in their own ring. Here, as was typical of the
team’s fortunes this year, the Generals’ four points all
came on knockouts, and the three lost were all decisions.

The final meet of the year, at home with V. P. L.,
was lost four to three after a bitter battle which was
decided by the last fight. Robertson and Collins kayoed
their Gobbler rivals, while Pound won a decision, and
Tech took the other three first fights by two decisions
and a knockout. ‘Tilson was put in the ring with Stark,
V. P. I. giant heavyweight, and he forced him into an
extra round to lose the decision and the meet, 4 to 3.

Robertson finished with a perfect record, four
knockouts, a decision and a forfeit. All the other men
were beaten except Lewis Martin, sophomore, who en-

I

NM 6B

gaged in a bout with St. Johns and won. Phil Sera-
phine, lightweight, kayoed two opponents and lost one
decision. Nace Collins, lightheavy, scored three knock-
outs, a decision, and lost one decision. Tex ‘Tilson
scored two kayoes, a decision, and lost two decisions.

No indoor track activities were held this year, but
Coach Forest Fletcher is sending an informal team to
the conference indoor meet at North Carolina. Lack-
ing practice, the thin-clads are not expected to stand up
to their previous stellar indoor performances, but Eli
Finklestein will defend his hurdles title, and may repeat
with a victory.

Coach Cy Twombly’s swimmers went through
their second successive season without defeat, and have
the strongest claim to a mythical South Atlantic title.
They vanquished Roanoke, Virginia and William and
Mary, the only three state teams, so they are Virginia
champions without argument. Three out-of-state teams
fell before them, giving the tankmen the best record
in the South Atlantic sector.

Their victories came 56 to 6 over Roanoke, 42 to
24 over William and Mary, 42 to 24 over George
Washington, 35 to 31 over Virginia, 45 to 21 over
Duke, and 41 to 25 over Johns Hopkins.

The relay team—Rivers, Moreland, Musser, and
Nichols—again proved to be a headline performer,
while Nichols, Walker, Harris and Rivers were the
most consistent first place winners. Zachary picked up
numerous points in the breast stroks, Moody in the
backstroke, and Cohen was second only to Walker in
the diving.

a a oe mh eg

 

GEORGE C. SELLS, ’04

George C. Sells, 55, prominent lawyer of Johnson
City, Tenn., died at Appalachia Hospital, February 23.

He was the senior partner in the law firm of Sells,
Simmonds and Bowman.

Mr. Sells was a native of Sullivan County and
spent his young manhood in Bristol. He attended the
public schools and King College, where he was grad-
uated with an A. B. degree. He took his Law degree
at Washington and Lee in 1904.

 

“Good Eysight in Industry” is the title of a pamph-
let recently issued by the National Society for the Pre-
vention of Blindness. This pamphlet consists of ex-
tracts from an address delivered before the National
Safety Convention in Chicago, IIl., October 14, 1931,
by Herman P. Davidson, M.D., 13, oculist of the Pull-
man Car and Manufacturing Corporation.

 

In New Orlenas Dr. Gaines made a series of talks
to students of the Baptist Bible Institute. He was also
the speaker at the weekly luncheon of the members’
council of the Association of Commerce.

[ 29 |

ua mm & A hy a a eS

EARL W. BIBB, ’24

Earl Wallace Bibb, assistant professor in eco-
nomics at Washington and Lee University, was found
dead about 4:30 o’clock Monday afternoon in his room
from a self-inflicted wound. He lived at the home of
Professor John A. Graham and Edward L. Graham,
where his body was found lying across the bed with a
pistol wound in his heart, a revolver lying close by.
He had made elaborate preparations to muffle the sound
of the shot. Three letters in his room and a message
to Professor Graham which indicated that he intended
to end his life. He had been visited in his room the
preceding night by Professor Graham, who said after-
wards that Professor Bibb seemed somewhat gloomy
and downcast at the
time, but not enough
to arouse any appre-
hension.

Professor Bibb
was graduated from
Washington and Lee
in the class of 1924.
During his college
career he had received
many scholastic hon-
ors, including election
to Phi Beta Kappa,
and Omicron Delta
Kappa, an honor re-
ceived for campus
leadership. He was the
winner of the German scholarship, Vincent L. Brad-
ford, and James McDowell scholarships. He also be-
longed to the Pi Kappa Pi, social fraternity. After
graduation he went to New York city where he held a
position and did graduate work at Columbia Univers-
ity. He studied at the University of Chicago last sum-
mer and had intended to return there for further
study. He joined the Washington and Lee faculty
two years ago.

Professor Bibb was born February 26, 1903, in
Helena, Mont. His mother, Mrs. Collie K. Bibb of
Warren, O., survives him and came to Lexington after
receiving word of his death. Her home is now in
Ohio.

Funeral services were conducted Tuesday morning
at 11 o'clock at Lee Chapel by Dr. James J. Murray,
pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian church. Classes
were suspended at Washington and Lee Tuesday in re-
spect to his memory.

Following the funeral, the body was then placed
in the Lexington Presbyterian church to await the ar-
rival of Professor Bibb’s mother and his aunt, Mrs.
Kraus of Cleveland, O. His sister, Mrs. W. J. Miller,
of Aberdeen, Wash., was unable to come on account of
the distance. The body was taken Wednesday, Feb-

 

I

Wm Al Go. 4 2 i Se

ruary 17, to Clarksville, Tenn., for burial and was ac-
companied by Professor Bibb’s mother and aunt.

 

MARRIAGES

Dick Feamster, ’23, was married to Miss Mary
Otile Macintosh, daughter of Mr. Richard Macintosh,
prominent. Hollywood Boulevard merchant, at St.
Augustirle’s Episcopal Church By-the-Sea in Santa
Monica, California, on the 30th of June last. Dick
was attended as best man by his cousin, Wally Wales
(Floyd Alderson), western picture star.- Miss Mac-
intosh is a graduate of the University of California,
a member of the Alpha Delta Pi social Sorority and
of Sigma Pi Delta music Sorority.

Joseph H. Edmondson, ’29, was married Satur-
day, February 20, 1932, to Miss Mildred Duvall, in

St. David’s Church, Cheraw, South Carolina.

They will be at home after March 15, in Mary-
ville, Tenn.

Emory Morris Abernathy, 24, was married on
Saturday December 26th, 1931, to Miss Mary Boykins
Harris, at Alexandria, Virginia.

R. A. Fulwiler, Jr., 25, was married recently to
Miss Mary Helen Hawkins of Kingston, Pennsylvania.
They will reside in Brooklyn.

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

[ 30 ]

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

= —— ———————————————— —_—_ = ——————————————_—
SFRING SPORTS SGHEDULE :
O ———SSaaanananasas== =O
BASEBALL April 30—Richmond Richmond _
| : ae May 7—State Meet Charlottesville
| M 28—W. M. N
| oe yet ne May 14—Southern Conference Atlanta |
March 29—W. and M. Williamsburg
March 30—Univ. of Richmond Richmond
April 1—Drexel Institute Lexington GOLF
April 6—Cornell Lexington
April 7—Cornell Lexington March 26—Duke Durham
| April 12—Maryland Lexington March 28—Georgia Tech Atlanta
|
April 14—Virginia Lexington March 29—University of Georgia Athens
April 18—V. P. I. Blacksburg March 30—Davidson Davidson =f
April 20—W. and M. Lexington April 16—Richmond Richmond
April 22—Maryland College Park May 4-—Duke Lexington |
April 23—Navy Annapolis May 6—W. and M. Williamsburg |
fee 20 Vp enectoeeavine May 7—Medical College of Va. Richmond
April 30—V. P. I. Lexington
May 6—Duke Lexington |
May 9—Temple Philadelphia TENNIS (Tentative)
May 10—N. Y. U. New York
May 1T—Army Wy dae Matar April 6—Roanoke Lexington |
May 12—Cornell ei April 9—Virginia Charlottesville
May 13—Colgate Hamilton “pril 15—Georgetowa Washington |
May 14—Drexel (Pending) Philadelphia Dae ary Annapolis
April 18—Pennsylvania Philadelphia
TRACK April 19—Lehigh Bethlehem
April 20—Lafayette Easton |
April 9—Maryland College Park April 25—V. P. I. Lexington
April 16—W. and M. Lexington May 4—Richmond Lexington
| April 23—Duke Lexington May 6—Virginia Lexington
Ou = ==O

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

