rT 2 > io” = ae te av. Lea x ao s. a> . +": = / cs = ae ete — me —oe oS eee Zs 3 : s Ct? ve zy 35+ ce ¥ ot eh eh eee Fee ae re Se > or Fe Fie ts nh “,% % P ;
: a ee, x ar 4 ae, ; * > 7 yn? moe. % + “ re. y oo q “4. h ’
: ~

 

 

; ; - . > ; vs : . ow
.
»

a

+
*
x
™
i
M
*

*

M
ea

zine

>
‘
fs

*

M
™
pa

*

*

Ma

 

mM

+ EP Oe pyrene nse

r, 1938.

Decembe

Lee Universi

ee

hb ¢
4
M

ington and

te
Ey

Nf

Y
pink
y
y*

“

a

*

5
Wash

UIT

*
*

ye
~

Al
*
M
M
*
*
t

       

3

BB

 

sai , > pole ee {ig ‘ ¥ r %
ret tor rene P Page = v4 a a . . . * atom (ee
é a RI, eee BS apatite LY Spe eS SIE fede SE

an ~ —e ~— - -

 

 

 

 

 

« .
(3)
e «

2. Alumni Magazine, while trying at all
times to bring you up-to-the-minute news of
the University and of alumni, needs your help
in keeping the magazine “alive.” In other
words, what we need is this—more news from
more alumni. Send in a line saying what you
are doing (don’t be too modest) and send in
another line saying what a friend is doing.

Send pictures, too; we'll be glad to get them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas
James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building

Baltimore, Maryland
A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road

Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chicago, Illinois

W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company
Cincinnati, Ohio

Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

Pinkney Grissom, Republic Nat’l Bank Bldg.
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
. H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,

Florida
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Reed E. Graves, 300 Warwick Lane

Louisville, Kentucky
Robert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway

Memphis, Tennessee
Allen Morgan, First National Bank

New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 832 Metarie Road
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California

St. Louis, Missouri

Ed. H. Miller, 14 N. Kingshighway
Tri-State

A. W. Mann, Kitchen Building, Ashland, Ky.

Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIV DECEMBER 1938 No. 2
NS. ante hele a Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor............ RicHArp P. CarTEr, 1929

®

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

NEON oo) .2. ssa. cist siacel JosErH T. LyKeEs, 1909
SOCTELBTY.........00000000- Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
ND Se oe oe ae Stuart Moores, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

NorMAN S. FirzyHucuH, 1898
H. H. LArtMmore, 1896
Joun Bett Towl1zt, 1929
Dr. RrcHAarD Fow.kEs, 1915
J. R. Nea, 1915

 

Contents for December 1938

PAGE
Honor System—lInternational (The President’s Page).......... 3
Building Boom Hits the Fraternities ........0.000000.0000..000.ccccce. +
Geological Science Enters a New Era...............c::cccceceeeseeeeeeeees 7
Fancy Dress Ball to be Held February 3............ RY... 10
The Washington and Lee Band......................:cecccsseccceessteeeeeeeees 11
Bee ean to- Winter Soorts. ..u.:....0. 9800. OE ae 13
Local Alumni Association Notes. .................::cssssseccsssstesessnbeceess 17

IE INI SPSL Nn FG er en Ns oy iat 19

oe ee ee

—_——

a

*
-)
§

#
*
:

=

> \
—

®
.

’ $ 7

in
*
we ste

&

~
om tend MS pg

*

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Honor System — International
(The President's Page)

DEAR and honored old gentleman, resident of a village
A in this county, sat not long ago at a luncheon in
Washington with some distinguished leaders of public
thought. Each statesman or near-statesman delivered a
lengthy opinion on the European situation. My friend, de-
termined that Rockbridge should not be unrep-
resented in the informal symposium, finally gave
his judgment: “The trouble over there is that
nobody can trust anybody.”

pips sig

It seems to me that his utterance, simple but
profound, said about everything to be said. The
world needs most of all a kind of Honor System
between these fragments of the race which we
call nations. But if such an end is achieved, it
will rest on deep foundations.

ee Se

Our college newspaper recently quoted in full an edi-
torial from another college paper making the point, the
excellent point, that the present situation of the world is
an unanswerable argument for religion because we can
see around us how hopeless things are without religion.

ee

The philosopher might go back into history, as indeed
men have done, and show how inadequate, how futile,
have been the ideas once acclaimed as sufficient for the re-
demption of society, ideas that were the focus of a fine
enthusiasm and presumably the core of construction for a
perfected order. Bile: te

In some such way, the ancients dreamed of Culture, of
Universal Law. Our nearer ancestors believed that De-
mocracy would usher in for mankind a Utopian State. Al-
most within our own day we have heard Science or Edu-
cation hailed as the answer to all problems.

the *

Grand they are, these themes that have renewed the
hope of mankind. But each one of them, or all of them to-
gether for that matter, can not stand unaided. They re-
quire motive and interpretation at once purifying and sus-
taining. The motive and the interpretation are things of
the spirit. They come from religion, true and undefiled.

eee
History itself would tell us, if nothing else did, that

 

only religion can eliminate from the individual attitude,
and then from the national policy—which is a kind of
composite of personal attitudes—the considerations of
old hatreds, of fear, of selfishness. International amity
waits for this transformation.

x* * *

Only religion can disturb us out of a com-
fortable complacency into a genuine concern for
the world’s unhappy state, a program of assist-
ance for it. In a selfish satisfaction that our own
circumstances are more favorable, we may ex-
press but mild concern for suffering Jews or
Chinese or Spaniards in zones remote. Religion
cries forever, in the phrase of one of its chief
servants: “Is it nothing to you, all ye that
pass by? ee

It may even come to pass that not until religion has at
least measurable authority in the ways of man shall the
pledged word of nations ever be held more precious than
the immediate advantage which might ensue for that na-
tion from breaking the treaty. Certainly as long as the
powers of the earth recognize no accountability except to
their own partisan or passionate interests there is little
hope that the situation so aptly described by my friend
will be modified. |

* * *

The founders of this University, and all the great souls
who have maintained it, including George Washington
and Robert E. Lee, believed that education is sadly incom-
plete if it fails not merely to define religion or to specu-
late about it but to inculcate its ideal. We have today a
kind of testimony which they could hardly know to the
effect that their position is correct.

eee

The hope of the world is an education which will com-
mand all other forces, the culture, the democracy, the
science or anything else, upon the principles and for the
ends of a spiritual idea. Then the world may have its
Honor System; then the world may know true kindliness
between nations; then the world may have peace.

A Ske ey

President

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Building Boom Hits the Fraternities

| HROUGHOUT the country today there has arisen

ings—modernistic and economical—can be found in al-

 

Lambda Chi Alpha’s New Home at Washington and Lee

most any city, town or hamlet, and the people of the
United States are becoming more and more “housing

By HAmiILton HeErvrz, 1940

a undertaking costly rebuilding and reconstruction projects.
movement for better housing conditions. New build-

conscious.” No longer does the what-was-good-for-

grandpa-is-good-enough-for-me attitude persist, for re-
cent generations are eager to improve their present homes

and build new ones in the future. The
youth of America looks toward the fu-
ture with the hope of advancing the
housing movement to wipe out city slums
and tenements, and make this country a
nation of “dream” houses.

As might well be expected, the hous-
ing movement has permeated to the cam-
puses of the nation’s colleges and uni-
versities, where its effects are becoming
more and more evident by the appearance
of new and modernistic fraternity houses
—the homes of many college students.

Colleges of the South have not been
leaf to the demands for the modern fra-
ternity house. Keeping up with this de-
mand, many chapters on the Washington
and lee campus have undertaken and are

There was a time when Washington and Lee frater-
nities were not housed in huge three- or four-story build-

ings, but met in rented rooms in the
cheaper sections of Lexington once or
twice a week for official gatherings. 'To-
day there are nineteen fraternities resid-
ing in large modernistic buildings. Most
of the buildings are no more than eight
or nine years old, and some are the prod-
ucts of the last year or two.

During the past year two fraternities
have built new houses, while two others
have had their old ones completely re-
constructed. The new houses are the lat-
est thing in housing, and, while they are
big and modern, emphasis has been
placed on economy. Fraternities today
are not interested in lavish and gaudy
buildings, for the rah-rah days of college
are gone and years of depression have
been effective in bringing about the eco-

nomical house in place of the guilded cages of the twen-
ties. Economy now reigns supreme.

“arly last spring Lambda Chi Alpha completed their
plans for a new house and the actual construction work
began. Many months of juggling financial equations pre-

 

The New Zeta Beta Tau Home at Washington and Lee

[4]

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

ceded the laying of the corner-stone, and at times it
seemed to members of the fraternity that their plans
would fail.

But today the realization of an eighteen-year-old
dream—Lambda Chi’s new home-—is situated on the
highest of the low rolling hills that compose and surround
lexington. Overlooking the town in fashionable David-
son Park, it is in Georgian architecture, built of red brick
and graced with four large two-story columns. Modern in
every detail, it is the product
of the new housing move-
ment.

eradicate the dormitory effect present in some fraternity
houses. The Z. B. ‘T. house was styled with the idea of
privacy and individuality for each member of the fra-
ternity.

The first floor consists of a living-room, dining-room,
reception room, kitchen, and housemother’s quarters. The
living-room is a large rectangle with an open fireplace in
the center of the far wall, over which hangs the insignia
of the fraternity. The room is furnished like that of a
private home rather than a
club. The basement has been
divided into a chapter room

 

Above the front door is a
carving in mahogany of the
fraternity’s coat of arms. The
front door opens into a large
reception room, white walled
with cream-colored wood-
work. It is furnished with
leather-covered furniture and
occasional upholstered wing
chairs. The living-room is fur-
nished in much the same man-
ner as the reception room—
flowered draperies, green rug,
leather - covered furniture,
club style reading chairs and
In the center of the
room an open fireplace adds
the necessary touch of a
home-like atmosphere.

tables.

Twenty-three boys live in
the house, which cost an es-
timated $28,000. Indirect
lighting has been installed in
the dining-room and the
lounge, thus keeping step with
the latest advancements in
housing. Here is Washington and Lee’s ideal fraternity
house; one that will rank an.ong the leading fraternity
houses in the South. Here also is evidence of the new
housing movement which is sweeping the nation’s
campuses.

Diagonally across from Lambda Chi stands the new
$25,000 home of Zeta Beta Tau; a house which one year
ago was scarcely more than a fond vision in the minds of
the members of the fraternity and now stands ready for
occupation.

It is a massive building of red brick in Georgian ar-
chitecture with three floors and twenty-four rooms. It will
be the private home of twenty-one boys, who will fill the
large double rooms on the second and third floors. Double
deckers have given way to individual beds.in an effort to

 

Phi Kappa Psi’s Washington and Lee Home

the former
having oak - panelled

long table about which the

and a_ lounge,

walls,

members will gather for meet-
ings. The lounge has not yet
been completed, but remains
a project to be undertaken in
the near future.

‘The two houses, practical-
ly facing each other, form an
impressive picture of Geor-
gian architecture, and give a
hint as to what “fraternity
row” of tomorrow will look
like. One cannot help but find
both houses complete, mod-
ern and economical, and
homes that members of the
fraternities will be inclined to
show off. Lexington can point
with pride to these two houses
and say, “Yes, we have heard
about this new housing move-
ment.”

During the last summer
the Phi Kappa Psi house was
entirely remodeled at a cost of $18,000. Walls were
broken through and new partitions erected to enlarge the
rooms and bring the house up to date. The outsides were
subjected to a program of intensive alteration with the
result being an entirely new and modern fraternity house.
The lawns were landscaped while four white pillars
added a colonial effect to the building.

Phi Psi is the oldest fraternity on the Washington and
Lee campus, the local chapter tree dating back to 1855.
The fraternity has lived in numerous houses, and now
it can boast one of the newest and most attractive at
Washington and Lee.

What was once a two-story building now has three
floors and three extra bedrooms. The rooms are light and
spacious, while the furniture is in keeping with the mod-

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ernistic theme. The reconstruction was started in May,
and the house was ready for use when school opened.

Two years ago the Kappa Alpha house out on Letcher
Avenue was damaged by fire, and this provided an op-
portunity which members of the fraternity had long talked
about, namely, reconstructing the old house.

In a few months the KA’s saw the realization of their
plans standing majestically before them—a new house in
place of the old and antiquated one. At the cost of $20,000
extra rooms were added, a lounge in the basement com-
plete with furniture was ready for use, and the entire
interior of the house was modernistically decorated. It is
an ideal fraternity house in every sense of the word.

Out on Preston Street stands what might justly be
called a mansion in white. This is the relatively new home
of Phi Gamma Delta, built three years ago. Alumni who
remembered the old Phi Gam house were amazed to see
the $25,000 palace that now stands in its place.

It all happened in the spring and summer of 1936. The
interior was remodeled in a suave, streamlined style, with
high ceilings and wide rooms adding to its attractiveness.
To the left of the house and joined by a small covered
walk is a separate house for the Phi Gam housemother,
the only house of its kind at Washignton and Lee.

Opposite Memorial Gate five fraternities compose
what is commonly known as “fraternity row.” Facing the
campus are the Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma twin
houses. While both of these were built quite a few years
ago, recent internal construction has kept them in line
with the modern houses.

In the middle of fraternity row the Phi Delta Theta
and Sigma Nu houses face each other. Both have been
victims of the housing movement to a minor extent. The
Sigma Nu house will be remodeled after school closes this
year, and present plans indicate it will go completely
modernistic.

The last of the fraternity row houses is the Pi Kappa
Alpha on Main Street. They have kept up with the build-
ing of their neighbors, modeling an old English lounge in
their basement.

Speaking of lounges, Delta Tau Delta built one last
fall which surpasses any that has ever been seen or is
likely to be seen at Washington and Lee. At a cost of
$4,000 the Delt lounge was walled with imported knotty
pine panelling which gives it a rustic tone. Indirect light-
ing, leather easy-chairs and couches, built-in bookcases
makes it the most modernistic and attractive room this
side of Hollywood.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, which last year moved to 7 Uni-
versity Place, is the most recent fraternity to launch a
house building program. Although plans are not yet com-

pleted, the SPE’s expect to build a $25,000 home in Dav-
idson Park next summer.

Located on an ideal spot, within a stone’s throw of the
classrooms, the Sigma Chi house is as young looking as
the new Student Union building opposite it. Members of
the fraternity have refurnished the first floor, and kept
the house modern.

The Delta Upsilon house on South Main Street was
repainted and repapered last year, while minor construc-
tion work was done on the Pi Kappa Phi and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon houses on East Washington Street. The three-
storied Phi Epsilon Pi house was also subjected to the
paint brush over the summer.

Out on South Main Street, Alpha Tau Omega fra-
ternity lives in one of the biggest houses on the campus.
It, too, has not escaped improvement programs and re-
mains one of the newer houses. A short distance past the
ATO house, the Kappa Sigma fraternity is located in a
house which has seen recent construction in the way of
internal and external improvements.

So the story of housing among Washington and Lee
fraternities goes. It is by no means finished, for each year
will see more and more construction and remodeling pro-
grams put into action. From the chapter of the story now
recorded, it is easily ascertained that the nation-wide
movement for modern housing has reached the college
campus.

 

Lee Chapel Suit Entered

A FRIENDLY SUIT has been filed in Rockbridge County
Court in the projected removal of the body of Colonel
Robert E. Lee, III, grandson of General Lee, from his-
toric Lee Chapel to Charleston, South Carolina.

The suit was filed by Mary Middleton Lee, widow of
Colonel Lee, at the suggestion of the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees. The Board declared it was unwilling
to accede to her request for removal of the body to the
family burial plot without sanction of the court. In his
answer to the suit, James R. Caskie of Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, member of the Board and attorney for the Univer-
sity in the case, said Washington and Lee had no desire
to oppose the widow’s wishes, but merely wanted to be
certain “nothing is done which should not properly be
done.”

When Colonel Lee died in Roanoke, Virginia, in 1922
the Board of Trustees granted permission for his burial
in the mausoleum in Lee Chapel, where members of the
Lee family are interred.

The case, at the time Tok ALUMNr MAGAZINE went
to press, awaited the court’s ruling.

[6]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Geological Science Enters a New Era

By Marcettus H. Stow
Professor of Geology, Washington and Lee University

OME years ago the blending of physics and chemistry

resulted in the production of the new science of
physical chemistry, and in an almost complete redevelop-
ment of both parent sciences.
In geology the current blend-
ing of previously distinct and
separate fields of geologic
science, plus the blending of
geology with physics (yield-
ing geophysics) is similarly
expanding and transforming
all phases of earth science,
and in this activity Washing-
ton and Lee has had an ap-
preciable share. From the re-
search activities incident to
this rapid development of
geology and geophysics flow
opportunities for undergrad-
uate instruction of exception-
ally valuable and interesting
kinds.

The purpose of this ar-
ticle will be first, to describe
one of the major agencies by
which the new evolution of
geology is being carried for-
ward, and second, to describe
an instructional trip in which
the writer participated last
summer, in which undergrad-
uates from several schools
took part, and in which Wash-
ington and Lee students can
participate hereafter to their
advantage. The agency re-
ferred to above is the Yellowstone-Bighorn Research
Association, a Montana non-profit corporation formed for
the advancement of research and education, and the un-
dergraduate trip mentioned was that of the Princeton
Summer School of Geology and Natural Resources.

The Yellowstone-Bighorn Research Association

The Yellowstone-Bighorn Research Association has a
membership of about fifty-five, drawn from about thirty

“,

 

Surveying party in Bighorn Basin, Wyoming
(J. C. Bierer at plane table)

universities, colleges, and research institutions for the
purpose of voluntary collaboration in the advancement of
geologic principles and methods. Its guests and visitors to
date have numbered several
hundred, and among these
have been more than fifty dis-
tinguished foreign geologists.
The organization plans to play
host to a number of foreign
delegates to the General As-
sembly of the International
Union of Geology and Geo-
physics which is to be held in
Washington, D. C., Septem-
ber 4 to 14, 1939.

The headquarters for the
association are at the Bear-
tooth Research Camp at Red
Lodge, Montana, on the new
Red Lodge-Cooke City high-
way to Yellowstone Park.
During the months of July
and August of each year, the
association’s members and
their student assistants carry
forward a long-term program
of geological field research in
the region extending from
the Bighorn Mountains on
the east to, and including, the
Yellowstone Park on the west,
and from the Crazy Moun-
tains on the north to the
Wind River Mountains on the
south. In the mountains, can-
yons, and lowlands within this
area of about twenty thousand square miles lie the solu-
tions to some of the most important and fascinating prob-
lems in earth science. These problems are being attacked
by the method of multiple approach, by co-operative re-
search along multiple lines, with from fifty to sixty sen-
ior workers plus student helpers participating in an ordi-
nary season. T’o a considerable extent the association has
been self-supporting, though the field work of a number
of participants has been financed by grants-in-aid from

 

 

 

[7 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

the Geological Society of America and from other scien-
tific organizations as well as by individual contribution.

The organization and success of this significant re-
search enterprise is primarily due to an alumnus of
Washington and Lee University. Professor W. T. Thom,
Jr., Blair Professor of Geology at Princeton University,
was graduated from Washington and Lee with the class
of 1913, received his doctorate from the Johns Hopkins
University in 1917 and served on the United States Geo-
logical Survey as Chief of the Fuels Division for several
years before being called to Princeton as professor of
geology. The Yellowstone-Bighorn Research Association
had its inception in 1930 when Professor N. M. Fenne-
man of Cincinnati and a group from Princeton began field
exploration near Red Lodge. As preliminary field recon-
naissances progressed over a period of several years, the
work was participated in by more and more geologists
from an increasing number of schools. The group con-
tinued to grow in personnel and diversified interests until
1936, when it was decided to incorporate in Montana as
an educational institution under the name of the Yellow-
stone-Bighorn Research Association. Among the officers
of the association at the time of incorporation Washing-
ton and lee was represented by Professor Thom as Sec-
retary and Professor Stow of the Geology Department of
Washington and Lee as a member of the Council. Since
then Professor E. C. H. Lammers, one of the original
Princeton group and now of the Geology Department of
Washington and Lee, has been made ‘Treasurer.

In addition to the senior geologists of the association,
graduate and undergraduate students participate in the
field work. Graduate students choose problems in the re-

 

Class in geologic mapping, Dry Creek oil field, Montana

[8 ]

gion for theses for advanced degrees and undergraduates
act as field assistants to the senior geologists. By this
means undergraduates have an unusual opportunity to
learn geology at first hand in the natural laboratory of the
Rocky Mountains. During the summer of 1935 the writer
had three Washington and Lee students as his assistants;
they were: Earl Hicks, 1936; Norman Smith, 1937; and
Frank Comer, 1938. In 1936 Washington and Lee stu-
dents were represented by John C. Bierer, 1937, and
James H. Bierer, 1940 (sons of J. M. Bierer, 1908). In
1937 Jack Bierer returned and Richard M. Herndon,
1941 (son of J. G. Herndon, 1911) was added to the
Washington and Lee group. In 1938 Jack Bierer com-
pleted an individual problem in structural geology and
Kenneth G. Smith, 1941, assisted Professor Lammers on
the Beartooth Plateau. In four summers seven Washing-
ton and Lee students have had the valuable experience of
active participation in field research and intimate asso-
ciation with prominent geologists from numerous uni-
versities.

The Trip to Study Natural Resources

With the increasing realization of the value and im-
portance of natural resources and their conservation and
economical exploitation, it has become more and more
important that the location, extent of reserves, and meth-
ods of production of these mineral raw materials be
known by the average individual. Therefore, during the
past summer the Princeton Summer Session of Geology,
in co-operation with the Yellowstone-Bighorn Research
Association, organized two groups of students for the
purpose of making an orientation survey of certain of
our mineral resources. Each
group had a definite itinerary
planned in advance and was
under the supervision of two
competent instructors. One of
these trips was “planned for
students interested in the pub-
lic importance of the geolog-
ic, geographic, and natural
resource factors in national
life.” The other was “planned
as an orientation course for
students interested in the geo-
logic, geographic, and _pro-
duction engineering aspects of
the petroleum industry.” The
first of these groups spent
about a week in the study of
the important geologic and
economic features in the vi-
cinity of Red Lodge, Mon-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tana, Cody, Wyoming, and the Yellowstone Park. About
the middle of August they went, via Salt Lake City and
the Bingham Canyon copper mine, to Bryce and Zion Na-
tional Parks, and to the vast area to be irrigated by the
water from Lake Mead and Boulder Dam. Important
geologic sections were studied at the Grand Canyon of
the Colorado before crossing the Indian country of the
Painted Desert of Arizona and the Cliff Dwellings. In
New Mexico, Carlsbad Cave was visited and the great
potash deposits nearby were
examined. Turning eastward
the students passed through
the Hobbs-Eunice- Monument
oil fields to Amarillo, Texas,
where they spent some time
inspecting the oil refineries
and oil and gas fields of this
important area. Near Joplin,
Missouri, stops were made
for study of the lead and zinc
deposits of the Tri-State Dis-
trict. From Joplin the party
returned to Princeton via St.
louis, Indianapolis, and the
Ohio and Pennsylvania coal
and oil regions, arriving Au-
gust 31.

The second group, under
the direction of Professor
Thom, assisted by the writer,
spent a week at a local camp
belonging to the Ohio Oll
Company mapping and study-
ing the geologic structure of
the Elk Basin oil and gas field
of northern Wyoming, a typi-
cal Rock Mountain field. Up-
on the completion of this
work the volcanic activity of
the Yellowstone was studied.
From there the itinerary in-
cluded the Hot Springs at
Thermopolis, Wyoming, the Wind River Canyon, the Salt
Creek oil field, and Teapot Dome. After visiting other oil
and gas fields of Wyoming and Kansas, the group went to
Oklahoma where they visited the Bartlesville experiment
station of the U. S. Bureau of Mines, the offices of the
Phillips Petroleum Company, and the Tulsa offices of the
U. S. Geological Survey, besides being shown through the
important local oil fields by the geologists of the com-
panies operating in Oklahoma. At Dallas and ‘Tyler,
Texas, various company and government offices were
visited, and the great East Texas oil field was seen and

 

Professor Thom (in boots) with group of students,
Elk Basin oil field, Wyoming

the party was given a demonstration of the equipment
and methods used by the Schlumberger Company in mak-
ing electric well logs. At Houston under the guidance of
geologists from the Humble Oil and Refining Company,
various oil fields and the Baytown Refinery were visited,
sulphur production at Hoskins Mound was studied, and
half a day was spent on Galveston Bay as guests of the
Salt Dome Oil Company observing geophysical explora-
tion for oil structures under the bay. Leaving Houston the
remainder of the trip was
across Louisiana, with stops
at the Jefferson Island salt
mine and the Continental
drilling operations at Villa
Platte, thence across Missis-
sippi to Tuscaloosa where the
group were guests of the Ala-
bama Geological Survey,
northward to Bristol, Lexing-
ton, and to Princeton on Au-
gust 30.

The Petroleum Option of
the summer school trip af-
forded an excellent opportun-
ity for students to obtain a
bird’s-eye view of the devel-
opment of this major indus-
try. Although no Washington
and Lee students were in the
group on its initial trip, sev-
eral have expressed a desire
to go next summer. These
survey trips would enable
Southern boys, whether or
not they intend to become
professional geologists, to be-
come aware of the magnitude
and importance of the petrol-
eum industry in the South. As
the never-ending search for
oil and gas continues, new
fields are discovered and
drilled in heretofore unsuspected localities. These new dis-
coveries are constantly increasing both the areal spread
and the importance of Southern oil production and of
Southern oil possibilities.

The writer’s attempt has been to indicate the scope
and character of an important recent development in geo-
logic education for undergraduates, and of an even more
recent development in organized geologic research as ex-
pressed in the initiation of the Yellowstone-Bighorn Re-
search Association by an alumnus of Washington and
Lee University.

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Fancy Dress Ball to

HE thirty-third annual Fancy Dress Ball at Washing-
Ta and Lee will be held the night of February 3, 1939,
with colonial Williamsburg providing a picturesque set-
ting. Doremus Gymnasium will be transformed for the
night into an elaborate setting designed to represent the
palace of Governor Alexander
Spotswood late in the year 1719,

Cecil Taylor of Lynchburg,
Virginia, law student and pres-
ident of I‘ancy Dress this year,
will play the role of Spots-
wood as host. He will lead the
traditional Fancy Dress Ball
figure with Miss Margaret
Alexander Tomlin of Cincin-
nati; she is a sophomore at
Sweet Briar College.

The Fancy Dress set will
consist of three dances, Junior
Prom being scheduled for Feb-
ruary 2 and the Omicron Delta
Kappa formal for February 4.

Washington and Lee’s
‘ancy Dress, now the most fa-
mous of Southern collegiate
social events, was founded in
1907 at a private party given
by the late Miss Annie Jo
White, who attended the ball
regularly even in her late years.
Miss Annie died this fall at her
home on the campus.

With Taylor playing the role of Governor Spotswood,
Miss ‘Tomlin will portray his fiancee, “Anne Butler
3ryan, of Westminster,” while other leaders will repre-
sent the gentlemen and friends of the Governor.

The president commented on the announcement
briefly : ‘We have been particularly fortunate in making
arrangements to bring Fancy Dress to a Virginia and
Southern setting, closely related to the traditions and men
who have been connected with Washington and Lee. If
our present plans are developed, as we hope, this year
should see the most satisfactory and best Fancy Dress we
have ever had.”

A memorandum from Tyler’s “Williamsburg” submit-
ted with the announcement revealed: “In 1710 Alexander
Spotswood arrived as lieutenant-governor, and, being a

 

Cecil Taylor, Fancy Dress President

be Held February 3

man of great energy, bestowed much upon Williamsburg
during his administration. . . . We are also told that, at
the governor’s house, on birth-nights, balls and assem-
blies, the scene presented was equal to anything outside
the court circles of England. Williamsburg now began to
assume an air of more than lo-
cal importance. Ultimate
American independence grew
out of the conflict between
France and England for mas-
tery of the west, and Spots-
wood was singularly active in
asserting the English title and
in resisting the encroachment
of the French and Indians. In
1716 he led from Williams-
burg to the Valley of the Shen-
andoah an expedition which
blended romance with politics.
Upon his return he presented
every one of his company with
a golden horseshoe, bearing the
inscription ‘sic juval transcen-
dre montes,’ and some of them
are said to have been covered
with valuable stones, repre-
senting heads of nails.”

Taylor said that the ball
would depict the ceremony and
celebration at Williamsburg
following the return of Spots-
wood’s exploratory expedition
to the Blue Ridge and the Valley of the Shenandoah in
the summer and early fall of 1716.

Other Williamsburg characters who will be repre-
sented in the theme are Robert Beverley, John Fontaine,
William Robertson, James Taylor, Dr. Robinson, Robert
Brooke, George Mason, and Jeremiah Clouder.

Development of the theme has been under the direc-
tion of Mrs. L. J. Desha with the advice of Professor
F. J. Barnes, II, of the political science department, who
attended college in Williamsburg and who has a close ac-
quaintance with the history and customs of the colonial
setting. All students will be required to attend in period
costume this year.

Selection of a band for the dances has not yet been
announced.

[10]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Washington and Lee Band

NCE when the amaz-
Ga ing Baron Mun-
chausen was traveling in
Siberia, he found the tem-
perature so low that musi-
cal notes froze as his pos-
tillion blew into his horn.
Later this honest fellow, so
relates the Baron, was able
to entertain his comrades
at the inn with the most

By J. G. VARNER

Director of Musical Organizations at Washington and Lee

(J. G. Varner has recently been added to the Wash-
ington and Lee staff as a professor of English and Direc-
tor of Musical Organizations. He comes to us from the
University of Virginia, where he served as a member of
the English faculty, Associate Director of the Glee Club,
and Organist of St. Paul’s Church. Though primarily an
organist, he has had previous experience im the training
of bands, and since coming to Washington and Lee has
developed what is being recognized as one of the best
bands in the state —Enprror’s Nove.)

 

Friendships” and the fa-
mous “‘Washington and
Lee Swing.” Again, a
broken down bus failed to
halt their progress to Char-
lottesville on November 1.
Lining the highway with |
tubas, bass drums, and
sundry other instruments
tucked under their arms,
they persuaded tourists to

spirited marches simply by

hanging his horn on a nail before the kitchen fire and al-
lowing the notes to thaw. It was a similar temperature
which members of the Washington and Lee Band found
when they followed the Generals into the
frozen confines of the vast Baltimore
city stadium on ‘Thanksgiving day. Hud-
dled inconspicuously amid a driving
sleet, they blew with might and main
into unwilling horns; but the warmest
notes of the famous “Swing” froze solid
in tuba and trumpet; and often a selec-
tion begun with a full band ended with
only a few squeaks of piccolo and clari-
net. As icy keys refused to budge, horns
were rushed across the field to be
thawed, and then returned for a renewed
attempt.

“Tf the team can play, so can we,’
someone shouted ; and they played ; they
cheered; and finally throwing off their
coats at the half, they marched. Radio
press men admiring their determination,
broadcasted laudatory sentiments, and once again the
Band received due praise for their efforts.

A remarkable spirit of cooperation and good fun has
been displayed this year, even in the most adverse circum-
stances, by the University Band. When a drizzling rain
threatened to dampen completely all enthusiasm at the
Richmond game, they donned their raincoats and tooted
their horns; later in the afternoon, several musicians
gathered in the stands and forced spasmodic obeisance
from patriotic alumni by puffing out strains of “College

 

John G. Varner

transport them over the
mountain into Scott Stadium, where the last man arrived
just in time to start the game with the familiar school
song. And when music and instruments were reassem-
bled, they gave a performance equal to
that of the opposing university.

The present Band at Washington and
Lee represents the culmination of an ef-
fort during the past few years to pro-
duce such an organization on the cam-
pus. Historical records show a conspic-
uous emphasis upon the lack of “‘fiddles
and flutes” during those days when the
college was dominated by the stern
forces of the early Presbyterians. But by
the turn of the last century, the various
mandolin clubs and glee clubs had awak-
ened a desire for musical organizations
sufficient to quell the objection of for-
bidding Calvinists, and by 1911 the Uni-
versity boasted a seventeen-piece band.
Again in 1927 there was a band of forty
pieces, and in 1929, there was a band of
sixty-six members, twenty-eight of whom played saxo-
phones. In 1936 a renewed effort was made to revive the
band, but this effort failed because of a lack of interest on
the part of the students. But in 1937, a band of approxi-
mately twenty-three pieces was organized under the di-
rectorship of Mr. W. H. Ruebush, and with the assistance
of professional musicians from the Virginia Military In-
stitute made several successful appearances at basketball
games and in concert. The success of this band, and the
success of recent efforts to produce at Washington and

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Lee a band worthy of the institution is due largely to the
enthusiasm and efforts of a man whose work has been
justly praised in the columns of The Ring-tum Phi:

“Two years ago, things reached such a low ebb that
the Athletic Association had to import some musicians.
It was very obviously true that while music hath charms,
music by the University Band of ten pieces had little
charm then. Today, however, Washington and Lee has a
well uniformed organization which with a little experience
promises to be the best college band in the state. The story
of that two-year rise is the story of cooperation and of
one man’s hard work. After that illuminating homecom-
ing game, administration, athletic, and student body rep-
resentatives agreed to cooperate in getting a University
» Band, worthy of Washington and Lee. The school would
furnish the: director, the Athletic Association would give
five hundred dollars toward uniforms, and the student
body would donate half as much. The man who was given
the job of coordinating the work was Professor Francis
Sidney Walls. For a year Professor Walls with a num-
ber of interested students practiced diligently. They were
not satisfied sufficiently with their work to appear during
the football season, but finally did play for several basket-
ball games. But Professor Walls, the administration, the
Athletic Association and the student representatives
were not wholly satisfied. The Band needed fresh material,
new music and uniforms. New material was obtained
through careful contact of all incoming men, who had
musical experience. New music was bought and sent to
these men for summer practice, and new uniforms were
ordered for each of the men who signed promises to en-
roll with the Band. Today Professor Walls’ task is done.
The Band is now in the hands of a regular director in
Mr. Varner. Tomorrow it will go to Charlottesville for
the Virginia game. The band well deserves all the praise
it has received, and Professor Walls an orchid for a hard
job well done.”

At present the Washington and Lee Band consists of
approximately forty-five members, many of whom are
excellent musicians, and all of whom are Washington and
Lee students. They rehearse regularly once each week un-
der the direction of a member of the faculty, a portion of
whose duty it is to develop and promote the interests of
the band. Appearing in tasteful uniforms which consist
of white military caps, navy blue, double-breasted dress
coats with white shoulder cords, and white flannel trous-
ers, they have performed at each football game played at
home, and in addition have journeyed to Charlottesville,
Richmond, and Baltimore for out-of-town games. During
the remainder of the year, they will play at various home
sports, and there is some indication that they will travel
again for both games and concerts. In addition to regular
band work, the organization is now seeking to develop

into something of a novelty band. There will be saxophone
and trumpet choirs, drum corps, piccolo and tuba duets, a
swing section, and possibly a circus band. It is hoped that
thus the present enthusiasm and interest will be main-
tained, and that the close of the year will find a firmly-
knit organization to which might be added each year those
musicians to be found among incoming freshmen.

A band operating on the campus of Washington and
Lee University must do so under somewhat unusual cir-
cumstances. It has therefore been the purpose of the pres-
ent director to emphasize two phases of the organization.
The band must awaken enthusiasm when it is found lack-
ing at student activities, and it must provide a certain de-
gree of fun for those who participate. But in addition, it
must, through the exercise of good taste at all times, seek
to command a prestige which will assure the respect and
support of all student and faculty organizations. Thus far
the band has been a success because it has had this sup-
port. Social organizations have urged their members to
join the band, and the student body has shown its desire
for a band by enthusiastic approval and magnanimous fi-
nancial support.

The Athletic Association has contributed greatly to-
ward the success of the organization by financial aid, and
by providing trips which have given it a purpose. And
finally the University itself has done all in its power to
insure a band. Even Dr. Gaines has been heard to voice
his confidence by remarking that he “expects the band to
score at least two touchdowns at the next game.” Wash-
ington and Lee needs a band; if the present interests can
be maintained, Washington and Lee will have a band—
and a permanent one.

Several students are now at work compiling a history
of musical activities and organizations at Washington and
Lee. Any information or anecdotes concerning former
groups of this nature would be gratefully received.

 

G. Ricorpt AND Company, international music pub-
lishers are publishing another composition by John A,
Graham, Washington and Lee language professor. ‘This
number is entitled “A Christmas Folksong,” a setting for
women’s voices of a poem by the late poetess of Baltimore,
Lizette Woodworth Reese. This number was first sung
publicly at a Composers’ Evening several years ago in
Charlottesville, Virginia, and later by the Sweet Briar
Chorus. This is the fourth composition of Mr. Graham’s
which Ricordi has published.

 

W. W. Fow xss, LL.B. 1935, of Danville, Virginia,
recently announced his association with Park Street, 1929,
in the practice of law at 1234 Milam Building, San An-
tonio, Texas.

[12]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

From Fall to Winter Sports

By Lea Bootu

Student Assistant, Washington and Lee News Bureau

HE Monpay Morninc CoacueEs have begun to hib-
ernate and athletics at Washington and Lee ate sup-
pressed under a tranquility more noticeable than a fresh-

man at his first dance set. But
something is bound to be going on.
Cap’n Dick is still at his desk early
in the morning, the coals are still
being fired up around the Hot
Stove League, and the Second-
Guessers Association still makes
the Co-op a buzzing inferno on
Monday mornings. We'll call it the
Period of Transition—the transi-
tion from the reign of King Pig-
skin to the more democratic and
representative period of winter
sports—a period commanding the
attention of more Washington and
Lee athletic aspirants than any
other during the year. What with
basketball, wrestling, swimming
and indoor track, the stage crew is
necessarily busy.

The accrued erosion of mud
from Wilson Field to its next rest-

reasons.

 

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
1939

Dec. 13—Bridgewater, home.

Dec. 15—National Business College,
home.

Dec. 21—Kentucky, away.

Dec. 22—St. Xavier, away.

Jan. 7—Lynchburg, home.

Jan. 9—Duke, away.

Jan. 12—William and Mary, home.
Jan. 14—North Carolina, Lynchburg.
Jan. 17—Maryland, home.

Jan. 21—V. P. I., home.

Jan. 28—George Washington, home.
Feb. 9—Wake Forest, Danville.
Feb. 11—Maryland, away.

Feb. 14—Richmond, home.

Feb. 16—Duke, home.

Feb. 18—Virginia, away.

Feb. 21—William and Mary, away.
Feb. 22—Richmond, away.

Feb. 25—V. P. I., away.

Feb. 27—Virginia, home.

Frankly, the boys were not allowed to open up for good

The following Saturday is history. The Wahoos broke

a seven-year jinx. In fact that isn’t
all. They scored thirteen points to
the Generals’ zero. It’s an estab-
lished fact that the Generals were
not ready for this one and can
blame it on the schedule.

Gradually increasing momen-
tum, the Generals mobilized in
thrilling fashion out in Charleston
for the time-honored West Vir-
ginia tilt. Score 6-6. No alibis nec-
essary from this writer.

On October 15 the boys forgot
the dainty dollies attracted by the
opening dance set and left the cam-
pus enthusiastically to avenge the
physical beating administered by
Kentucky’s Wildcats in 1937. The
stuff was evidently there while
sports writers throughout the east
sizzled under the heat of an 8-0
General victory. Not only did Til-

ing place in the locker rooms of
Doremus Gymnasium, conducted

 

son’s charges cop the ball game,
they virtually wrecked the remain-

 

 

there on the bottom of football
cleats, has been cleared away and the boys are all “hepped
up” over the winter calendar.

But first let’s go back out to Wilson Field one of these
first midnights and inquire of some of the Whistle Creek
ghosts just what transpired from September 1 until
Thanksgiving Day. Somebody ought to know, and that’s
the only unbiased source of information we know of at
present.

On September 23, Coach Tex Tilson’s Generals pa-
raded their wares before a disappointing gathering to get
by the first barricade in the form of Hampden-Sydney.
Under blankets due to the prominence of rival scouts in
the stands, the Big Blue was forced to finally open up in
the waning minutes to squeeze through on a 7-6 decision.
This was none too impressive in the next morning’s sports
editions, but nevertheless to those “in the know,” there was
nothing radically amiss with the Tilson “climax” system.

der of the Kentucky schedule.
There was nothing fluky about it. Perhaps the Wildcats
were not ready for this one either, nevertheless the rec-
ords show they had scored 117 points in their first three
games.

Little need to review “Old Home Week,” in which
“Dashing Dick’? Pinck, a soph playing his first varsity
ball game, daringly engulfed a low punt on his own
twelve-yard line and maneuvered up field to produce an
88-yard touchdown. V. P. I. failed to compete with this
action, and Dick Boisseau and Joe Ochsie, General tac-
kles, stormed the Gobbler offensive so effectively all aft-
ernoon that the Techmen never rang the bell.

It looked as if Pinck was everything the scribes had
packed into that little halo around his quarterbacking, but
the following week bedlam broke loose and as one quali-
fied observer described them, the Generals were “unpre-
dictable” the rest of the season. Pinck, after stepping 72

[13]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

     

Twombly’s swimmers
have won the Southern
Conference Champion-
ship the past three
years

Cy Twombly, shown in
center, genial coach of
Washington and Lee
swimming and golf
teams

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

yards on a pass interception from behind his goal line was
laid low by a University of Richmond tackler and his
name thereby scratched for the remainder of the 1938
football season. The Spiders went on to trounce the Gen-
erals in a veritable quagmire; the Blue eleven is peren-
nially a poor crew of “mudders,” and the crowd of some
1,500 was not over-inspiring of brilliant play.

Hot and cold from week to week, Louisville alumni
got a bird’s-eye view of the Generals when they were un-
dergoing a psychological revolution. Smarting under
Richmond’s sore vanquishing, the locals fumbled at the
very climax of each offensive bid and finally lost to Cen-
tre college’s gallant Praying Colonels, 7-0, when the Ken-
tuckians drove into pay-dirt in the last two minutes. The
Generals pilfered the Centre goal line. all afternoon but
pass interceptions and fumbles nullified the final ob-
jective.

Second wind was reached just in time to humiliate the
hapless William and Mary Indians, 27-0 in the last home
game as the General offensive rollicked along at will.

The grand finale at Baltimore was none too grand. A
driving sleet that literally cut into the faces of the play-
ers and covered the turf was likewise enough to keep all
but about 500 spectators out of the ball park. An early
General lead was disseminated by Maryland’s courageous
overhead comeback and the Generals went under again,
19-13, as the Terps passed them dizzy in the second and
third periods.

And so the old darkie dipped his thumb in the ink
again and the 1938 football season was merely ‘some-
thing that might have been.”

A few scattered remnants were salvaged from the

storm and Joe Ochsie made all-state at one tackle post,

while Dick Boisseau, along with Ochsie, one of the
school’s greatest tackles in football history, was accorded
the second team along with Cap’n Brown, Harrison
Hogan and Junie Bishop. Boisseau has been one of the
nation’s greatest linemen throughout 1938.

The frosh footballers broke even in four tilts, van-
quishing their harder opponents, yet dropping games to
the less important ones. The Brigadiers, as they have pop-
ularly been tabbed, had only two days preparation for
their opener with Staunton Military Academy and bowed
to the Cadets, 7-0. Victories were marked up over Mary-
land’s powerful eleven and Virginia Tech’s “greatest
frosh eleven in years.” The final encounter saw the Briga-
diers on the short end of a 9-7 score with Richmond.

 

Just as we started out to make this article a chronolog-
ical review, perhaps it might be wise to describe the in-
tense activity centering about Doremus gymnasium as
winter sports teams mark time to coaching metronomes.

Washington and Lee for many years set a terrific pace
for all Southern Conference basketball clubs. Such vener-
able hardwood characters as Leigh Williams, Joe Saw-
yers, Charlie Smith, Joe Pette, Norman Iler, Bob Spes-
sard, Kit Carson, and many others are now memories for
the more reminiscently-inclined supporters. Lean years in
basketball have yearly never been known at Washington
and Lee. Fears have never been substantiated because
somehow the Generals always seem to come through.

But this year there was a recurrence of an old
enigma—at least one key man failed to return to school.
Captain Bill Borries, who held the key to any mystery
that might enshroud General prospects, entered business
rather than return to school. This unexpected misfortune
left Coach Cy Young high and dry for want of a senior to
lead his men.

So it seems the Generals probably will drift through
an unpredictable season seniorless and captainless. No-
table losses from last year’s squad besides the depend-
able, fiery-thatched Borries, were Co-Captains Bob Spes-
sard and Kit Carson, the “never-a-dull-moment’’ pair,
and tricky Frank Frazier, all regulars in 1937.

Despite such dynamic losses, however, there should be
nothing drab about the fast-approaching season. ‘Two
1937 regulars, Ronnie Thompson and Leo Reinartz, both
juniors, will have to “father” a group of sophomores
along, and for the first time in years, nothing can be
combed from the general appearance of the squad as they
appear on paper.

Two more lettermen, both lacking in experience, are
Bobby Hobson and “Dodo” Baldwin, who will have to
cast their lot with the incoming sophomores from last
year’s phenomenal undefeated frosh quintet.

Dick Pinck, wearing a brace on the knee which gave
way during football season, looms as one of the most
potent sophomore candidates in several years. Pinck led
the frosh squad’s scoring last year with an average of al-
most 19 points per game.

Another soph almost certain for starting lineups this
winter is big Howard Dobbins, the only six-footer on the
entire squad. Dobbins, another Louisville athlete, distin-
guished himself on the flank of Coach Tex Tilson’s pow-
erful line during the football season but came to Wash-
ington and Lee touted as a brilliant basketball player. He
is six feet three inches and is one of the smoothest ball
handlers ever to come out of the Blue Grass state.

But that leaves one position wide open for anyone.
With two more sophomores, Bobby Stein and Bob Gary,
tugging at each other for the fifth place, somebody's go-
ing to have trouble making decisions.

The new schedule is unusually strenuous. Twenty
games will carry the Generals into six states. The squad

[15]

The Alumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

will not join the student body in returning home to greet
the Christmas festivities right away due to a little matter
of a trip immediately after the holiday allotment is made.
Alumni will be able to view the Generals in action in Lex-
ington, Kentucky, when they tangle with Kentucky’s
Wildcats on December 21, and the move on to Cincinnati
to face St. Xavier the following night.

Lynchburg alumni will be introduced to the team when
the Youngmen face North Carolina in the Hill City on
January 14, while the other “neutral battle ground” is
staked off in Danville when the Generals clash with Wake
Forest’s all-powerful cagers under the auspices of the
newly-organized Old Belt alumni association.

Just how far this questionable phalanx can go cannot
be determined to any degree. The evolution of a truly
brilliant passing combine may come about. If so, oppon-
ents beware. But on the other hand, should injuries crop
up during the year, General hopes will resemble the stock
market transactions of 1929. Reserves are again the prob-
lem, but by this time Coach Young ought to be familiar
with such trite circumstances.

There will be no six feet 7 inch hulk named Bob Spes-
sard lurking around under the baskets for looping passes
literally mystifying the opposition. The tall, lonesome pine
from Southwest Virginia drew comments from all over
the nation for his phenomenal play. This year without
him. the Generals are just another basketball club, with
better-than-average talent. With at least an even break
they'll travel right on down the road. Otherwise one in-
jury will rocket their season into obscurity.

 

Still the most genial man about the campus is Cy
Twombly, but we just don’t see how he does it. The poor
fellow will call for plenty of aspirins before this swim-
ming season is over. For four consecutive years the Gen-
erals have not lost a meet nor dropped a Conference tank
title. The fifth year—quoting Twombly, “It’s gonna be a
long, cold winter.” That demon graduation riddled his
ranks from top to bottom. One really top-flight per-
former, Brent Farber, remains to carry the burden, un-
less breast-stroking Jake Warner can manipulate an entry
into the pools. Probably the inspiration for ‘Twombly’s
broad grin may be found in the diamond-studded array of
freshman mermen. The yearlings are reported really
promising but what's to be done in 1938 is just as hazy as
the basketball horizon.

 

But there’s one way to still hang around Doremus
Gymnasium and save your handkerchiefs for something
more fruitful than weeping. The only ray of sunshine
around is wrestling Coach Archie Mathis, whose grunt
and groan lads are apparently worth writing home about.

Six dual meets feature Richmond Y, North Carolina,
Northwestern, N. C. State, V. P. I., and Davidson, then
the Southern Conference meet.

Six letter men, Captain Bob Kemp, Harry Crane, Jack
Broome, George McInerney, Barney Farrier, and Henry
Braun form the nucleus of a squad with possibilities.
Three more lettermen, including Charles Lykes and Joe
Ochsie, are uncertainties. Charlie Eaton, considered one
of the better General grapplers in a long and illustrious
dominance the Mathis-coached matmen have held over
the sport in this sector, withdrew from school, while both
Lykes and Ochsie, heavyweights, have not reported for
training. Al Szymanski has won the coach’s favor with
his smooth feats in the heavyweight class and seems to be
the best-looking candidate since the days of Hugo Bonino.

Schedule difficulties stalk the Generals this season,
however, and in one spot it will be necessary for them to
turn in “iron man” performances. Long hours of weight-
balancing and dieting will be prolonged when Northwest-
ern and North Carolina come to Lexington on successive
evenings, early in February. In addition to the fact that
both meets must be run off in successive nights, the dates
closely follow Fancy Dress week, which probably means
the grapplers will not be doing much dancing.

Mathis has that knack of turning out good teams—
even the news reels featured Washington and Lee mat-
men last year.

 

A composite view of the entire winter sports calendar
would indicate one thing—three Washington and Lee
teams will move through schedules this winter. Just how
much snow will be packed around the Hot Stovers then is

up to the fates. This is unfortunate in that recent develop-

ments have tended to indicate that Lady Luck has turned
thumbs down on the Generals.

Two captains failed to return this season (Roy Dart
of baseball is not enrolled in school to date), one of the
foremost wrestlers in the school’s history has been de-
clared ineligible through scholastic shortcomings, one of
the University’s rarest sophomore gems took the count
under a hernia operation during the summer (Dick
Pinck) but recovered in time to sustain a knee injury in
football that may handicap his remaining years of com-
petition, and just what the Gods will deliver next prob-
ably won’t be any too desirable.

But, all in all, give the Generals a couple of breaks and
an old rusty horseshoe and somebody else in the Confer-
ence will be forced to answer. Since blocking and tackling
are debunked in modern basketball, certain holds are
barred in wrestling and fractured skulls are a rarity in
well-equipped swimming pools, we may get by. No pray-
ers solicited.

[16]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Washington

On WEDNESDAY EVENING, November 23, the Wash-
ington Alumni Chapter held its annual pre-Maryland
game smoker at the Cosmos Club. The University was
represented by Professor Raymon T. Johnson of the law
school faculty. Mr. Johnson’s talk was greatly enjoyed by
everyone. The presence of James R. Caskie of Lynchburg,
member of the University Board of Trustees, was an un-
expected treat. Mr. Caskie spoke informally.

Mr. Caskie and Mr. Johnson very kindly agreed to
answer questions concerning various phases of the Uni-
versity’s activities and much information of interest to
all was obtained.

Charlie Suter reported on the special meeting of
alumni held at homecoming to discuss athletics. A com-
mittee headed by John A. Hanley, 1934, has been ap-
pointed to make recommendations.

Officers elected for the coming year were Richard J.
Hynson, 1906, president; Charles F. Suter, 1933, vice-
president; and Marshall Nuckols, 1933, secretary-treas-
urer. Dick Hynson’s son, Franklin, is a sophomore at
Washington and Lee.

Plans are being made for the annual dinner of the
Washington alumni, which is held to jointly commemor-
ate the birthdays of Washington and Lee. While the date
and place has not yet been selected, every Washington and
Lee alumnus is invited to be present and each alumni
chapter is requested to send a delegate. With an excep-
tionally able committee already hard at work, this dinner
should be an occasion to be long remembered in alumni
history. Those present on November 23 were:

John West Addison, 1905 ; Wm. H. Alexander, 1935;
Daniel W. Alexander, 1906; Henry Allen, 1934; L. G.
Benford, W. O. Burtner, 1917; E. D. Campbell, 1918;
Melville Beveridge Cox, 1931; Herbert M. Griffith, 1935;
F. P. Guthrie, 1911; John Alexander Hanley, 1934; G.
Hilliard Harper, 1933; Joseph M. Holt, 1925; Wm. J.
Humphreys, 1886; Richard W. Hynson, 1906; H. Wise
Kelly, 1913; E. E. Krewson, J. H. F. Mayo, Stuart Mil-
ler, 1936; Edmund R. Preston, 1902; Frank Price, Zach-
ary B. Rogers, 1927; Elwood H. Seal, 1914; Charles F,
Suter, 1933; Robert H. Thomas, A. Dawson Trimble,
Ashton, Maryland; Jacob: Albert Weinberg, Jr., 1931 ;
Robert K. Williams ; Torrence Wolford, 1921.

Charleston

ONE HUNDRED enthusiastic alumni, friends, and stu-
dents of the University gathered at the Edgewood Coun-
try Club on Friday evening, October 7, preceding the
Washington and Lee-West Virginia football game, for
the annual meeting of the local alumni chapter. As might
be expected at this time of year, prospects for football at
Washington and Lee were fully discussed.

Captain Dick Smith, Director of Athletics, and Cy
Young, Alumni Secretary, were speakers from the Uni-

_versity. After short talks by these men, the meeting was

turned into an open forum and the subject was discussed
at length. A resolution was passed that invitations be sent
to all local chapters to have a representative in Lexington
on Friday, October 22, on the occasion of Homecoming,
for a general discussion of the possibility of enlisting the
assistance of all local chapters for the improvement of
athletics at Washington and Lee.

Those present felt that this was one of the best and
most enthusiastic meetings ever held by the local chapter.
John Morrison, president, presided. The following officers
for the coming year were elected: John Thomas, 1934,
president; Ruge DeVan, 1934, vice-president; Jerome
Schwabe, 1928, secretary.

Florida West Coast

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI on the west coast of
Florida met at Tampa November 25, with approximately
thirty old grads attending.

The following officers were elected:

President, Howard P. Macfarlane; vice-president,
Martin Caraballo, Sr.; secretary, Charles Allison, of St.
Petersburg ; representative on the Alumni Council, How-
ard P. Macfarlane.

The association passed a resolution naming the three
officers—the president, vice-president and secretary—as
a committee to select desirable young men for prospective
members of the Washington and Lee student body and to
make recommendations for the granting of scholarships
in cases where they seem to be needed and merited. The
committee was given power to appoint additional mem-
bers from time to time as advisable.

The association will hold its next meeting at Tampa
on January 19.

[17]

MRA Tease 4 2

UNGT IN av Lee UNIVE "AN L

Ow vA

om

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Louisville

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI of Louisville met at
an enthusiastic meeting on November 24, the night before
the Generals’ game with Centre on November 5. Speaker
of the evening was Dick Smith, Washington and Lee ath-
letic director, who discussed athletics at the University.

For the coming year the chapter elected the following
officers: Robert T. Foree, Jr., 207 East Broadway, care
of General Electric Supply Corporation, president; Ed.
Axton, Jr., 334 South Birchwood, vice-president; Peel
Rivers, 1219 Everett Avenue, secretary-treasurer.

At the meeting there was an attendance of fifty-five,
including forty-four alumni, five students from school,
and six visitors. The alumni and guests were:

Alumni: Ed. Matz, Wm. Karrakar, Horace Barker,
John Merritt, Henry T. Merritt, R. F. Cooper, John D.
Farson, Thomas C. Nugent, Jr., R. P. Hobson, John H.
Hardwick, ‘Temple Lewis, Wm. L. Hoge, Wathen Kne-
belkamp, Ed. Axton, Jr., Gene Becker, Bob Foree, Rich-
ard A. Bate, Martin O’Sullivan, Frank Glenn, N. C.
Evans, Norman Iler, Ernest Walker, Bernard Davis, B.
Lawson, Denman C. Hucherson, Ed. Dodd, Henry Hill,
A. B. Ortner, Chas. J. Walker, John J. Davis, Sr., John
J. Davis, Jr., George Burks, Martin Z. Kaplan, Peel Riv-
ers, Murrel D. Klein, Ed. Rietze, A. B. Young, F. A.
Sampson, Caldwell Hill, John S. Petot, Jr., J. J. Morri-
son, Bill Price, John May, and Charles D. Mercke.

Guests: Dr. C. W. Karraker, J. C. Iler, S. F. Boden,
Luther Stein, W. S. Milburn, and Dick Smith.

Lynchburg

‘THERE WAS a called meeting of the Lynchburg Chap-
ter on November 30. At this meeting a resolution was
presented and adopted, to be presented to the Athletic
Council of Washington and Lee, pertaining to a reorgani-
zation of the coaching staff.

A committee was appointed, composed of Jack Caskie,
Robert A. Russell and Thomas §S. Kirkpatrick, to urge the
return of the Washington and Lee-Virginia Tech game to
Lynchburg.

For the past several years the local alumni have been
sponsoring a dance during the holidays for the seniors of
the high school and preparatory school. The dance will be
given again this year, in charge of the following commit-
tee: J. C. Watts, Jr., Thomas Martin and Ernest
Williams.

Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., was elected as the local repre-
sentative on the newly created Alumni Council.

New York

THe New York ALuMNI CuHaprer held one of its
best meetings in years at the Lafayette Hotel, New York
City, on Friday, November 18, 1938. The meeting was
well attended, the dinner was good, and the discussion of
business developed a healthy but good-natured difference
of opinion. John W. Davis served as the admirable toast-
master he is, and President Emmett W. Poindexter pre-
sided over the business session of the meeting.

Ray Grimley, of Ridgewood, New Jersey, introduced
a resolution pertaining to the granting of alumni scholar-
ships to each alumni chapter. The resolution was fully
discussed, but when put to a vote was defeated. Graham
Morison offered a resolution concerning the salaries of
heads of departments, professors, associate professors
and all others of the teaching staff of Washington and
Lee, as compared with other institutions of learning.

Officers were nominated and elected as follows:

President, John W. Drye, Jr., a member of the law
firm of Larkin, Rathbone and Perry; vice-president, Wil-
liam FE. Johnston, of the American Sugar Refining Com-
pany ; secretary-treasurer, Kdward W. Lee (re-elected) ;
executive council (terms expire in 1941), Graham Low-
den, of the Vick Chemical Company; Haven Walton, of
the Securities Tabulating Company; and Stuard Wurz-
burger, of the Hercules Cement Company.

Mr. Poindexter singled out for particular mention
Daniel Blain, the fifth generation of a family which had
gone to Washington and Lee, and William L. Webster,
who had traveled from Schenectady to attend the meet-
ing. Judge E. C. Caffrey, of New Jersey, a former presi-
dent of the general Alumni Association, was introduced
and spoke.

Dr. John Newton Thomas, of Grace Covenant Pres-
byterian Church in Richmond, and a trustee of the Uni-
versity, gave the principal address. He discussed some
phases of the field of education and the place of Washing-
ton and Lee within the field.

Dr. Thomas had brought with him a letter from Gov-
ernor Price, of Virginia, stating how sorry he, the gov-
ernor, was not to be with us; that after all the Washing-
ton and Lee alumni in New York had made their pile of
dough and wanted to settle down in green pastures, he
would suggest we return to Virginia. Whether he really
wants to see us or simply wants to use our million-dollar
incomes for purposes of taxation is a moot question;
however, we'll give Jim the benefit of the doubt and go
back to Virginia after we get the first million. Those who
attended were:

(Continued on page 28)

[18]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1893

Grorck CALDWELL Mart!N is a planter living at Keo,
Arkansas. He has affectionate remembrances of his
friends of the class of 1893.

Harry W. Myers has been a missionary of the South-
ern Presbyterian Church in Kobe, Japan, for many years.
He recently celebrated his 64th birthday and says he can
still swim a mile at a stretch, climb high vocanoes or walk
all day long with youngsters a third his age, and leave
some of them behind.

1894

Dr. James B. Buttir’ is in charge of the pathologi-
cal laboratory of the University of North Carolina.

E. P. Corks is manager of the General Electric Com-
pany in Charlotte, North Carolina, a job he has held for
thirty years.

1895

WittiAm McCursney Martin, member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, is governor of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of St. Louis. His son, William McChesney
Martin, Jr., was recently made president of the New York
Stock Exchange—he is thirty-one years old, the youngest
man to become president of the Exchange.

1896

Srockton Hers ‘Tyler is a member of the firm of
Mann & Tyler, Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, Sea-
board Bank Building, Norfolk, Virginia.
His son, James Hoge Tyler, 1933, has been
made assistant commonwealth’s attorney for
Norfolk, Virginia, and his second son is
still a student at Washington and Lee. He
would like to hear from other members of
the class of 1896.

Frank Moork is 2 member of the Leg-
islature of Virginia from Rockbridge Coun-
ty and the city of Buena Vista, which office
he has held continuously since 1924.

1897

W. B. Morrison is professor of history
at Southeastern Teachers College. He has

-«.
~~

 

recently published a book, Military Posts and Camps in
Oklahoma, dealing with the history of Oklahoma and sur-
rounding territory from the standpoint of its military
posts. This year he is acting as dean of the college. He has
subscribed to the Rockbridge County News ever since
graduation, and so keeps up with events in Lexington.

1898

BorpvEN Burr is a member of the law firm of Benners,
Burr, McKamy and Forman, Brown-Marx Building,
Birmingham, Alabama.

E. J. Parris is with the Freight Traffic Department
of the Seaboard Air Line Railway. His home is in Nor-
folk, Virginia.

S. GARLAND HAMNER is a member of the law firm of
Edmonds & Hamner, with offices in the Peoples Bank
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

1899

JAMES MULLEEN is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liam, Mullen, Williams and Hazelgrove, 1001 East Main
Street, Richmond, Virginia.

BRADEN VANDEVENTER is a member of the law firm
of Vandeventer & Black, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia. His firm was until recently Vandeventer,

' Eggleston and Black. John W. Eggleston, Washington

and Lee, 1906, has gone on the bench of the Virginia Su-
preme Court. Mr. Vandeventer is vice-chairman of the
Virginia Conservation Commission.

Harry Sv. G. T. CARMICHAEL is rather
pleased at being on the receiving end of a
class letter after having spent the past five
or six years sending them out. He has an
undying interest in everything that concerns
Washington and Lee. Mr. Carmichael was
recently elected a member of the Univer-
sity board of trustees.

1900

| L.. R. Ho_mEs is manager of the Phila-

Mili! delphia Branch of Furness, Withy & Com-
pany, Ltd., steamship owners and agents.
His offices are in the Public Ledger Bldg.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1901

CLARENCE C. Burns, class agent for 1901, practices
law at Lebanon, Virginia. He has six children, four boys
and two girls. One son, Bill Burns, is in the law school at
Washington and Lee.

1902

J. Woop Gtass is practicing law under the firm name
of Glass & Campbell at Nowata, Oklahoma. He writes:
“There is nothing much to say about myself except that
the training given me by my Alma Mater has been capi-
talized, and it has always been a matter of pride and dis-
tinction that I am an alumnus of this splendid institution.”

E. W. G. Boocuer and his wife spent last winter in
the West; Tucson, Arizona, California and Mexico. On
the way home they saw Kid Steves in San Antonio, “and
enjoyed the hospitality of his lovely home and fine fam-
ily.” Elbert’s address is 325 West Maple Avenue, Mer-
chantville, New Jersey.

Dr. ALEXANDER H. S. Rouse has retired from active
practice. His home is in Charles Town, West Virginia.

1903

Ropert W. McCrum regrets that he has gotten so out
of touch with the men of his class and feels that the Class
Agent Plan could have them all in much closer touch had
it been in use since the graduation of the class. Since 1937
he has been office engineer in the general office of the
State Highway Department of Georgia in Atlanta, Geor-
gia. He lives in Decatur, which is on the outskirts of At-
lanta. He is married and has three children, a boy eighteen,
a girl fifteen, and a boy eleven.

W. J. TurNER is general manager of the Braden Cop-
per Company at Rancagua, Chile. He was back in the
United States last spring. His two sons are in school in
this country.

1904

W. Cos Davis is practicing medicine at 109 S. Port-
land Avenue, Ventnor, Atlantic City, New Jersey. His
mother and sister live near Rockbridge Baths, and he fre-
quently gets back to Lexington.

WituiaM W. Bays is reviewing attorney for the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, Washington, D. C. He often
thinks of Washington and Lee and asks to be remembered
to the members of his class.

R. D. THompson is with the First and Merchants Na-
tional Bank of Richmond, Virginia. He has supervision of

all real estate for which the bank is trustee. Finds it a big
job with lots of responsibility, but likes it.

1905

H. B. Conner lives at 3648 North Boulevard, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana. He is married and has four children.
His letter recalls a delightful scrap between freshmen and
sophomores soon after his arrival at Washington and Lee,
where the truce resulted in painting “Old George’”’ half-
and-half. Says the class of 1905 composed the class of
fortitude of that day; and that same bunch of men could
make Hitler and Mussolini compromise.

FE. W. KELLEY is in the insurance business in Bristol,
Virginia.

1906

R. B. (Buck) SprInpLE is judge of the Corporation
Court, Norfolk, Virginia. Has a son who is in the fresh-
man class at Washington and Lee this year.

A. M. Rutan is a member of the law firm of Rutan,
Mixe and Kroese, First National Bank Building, Sanata
Ana, California. Says he is working harder than ever be-
fore, trying to survive “the abundant life.”

J. Ropert Switzer is clerk of the Circuit Court of
Rockingham County, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

1907

I. P. GassMAN is president of the Arcade Manufac-
turing Company, makers of iron toys, Freeport, Illinois.
His youngest son is in his second year at Washington and

Lee.

WitiiaM L, (BLL) Lorp is head of the Department
of Mathematics at Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry
Forest, Virginia. His son, Leland Hume Lord, was a
freshman at Washington and Lee last year, but did not
return because of the lack of a technical course. He is
specializing in aeronautical engineering.

1908

Hiram Dow is a member of the law firm of Hervey,
Dow, Hill and Hinkle, Roswell, New Mexico. He says:
‘Washington and Lee in New Mexico is well represented
at the Bar and in other lines. By the way, the Board of
Bar Examiners—a board of three—has as its president
Pat Hamilton, a Washington and Lee man. I also am a
member of the board. Dan Sadler is a member of the Su-
preme Court of New Mexico; Colin Neblett, New Mex-
ico’s federal judge; Miguel Otero, recently a district

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

judge ; John Hodges a district attorney, and then there are
others who stand high in the councils of state govern-
ment; for instance, Bill Keleher, Herman Crile, Eldridge
Mears, Clarence Hinkle, Ross Malone and a number of
others I could name.” Mr. Dow modestly refrained from
stating that he is now lieutenant governor of New Mexico.

WiLt1AM H., JACKSON is a member of the law firm of
McKay, MacFarlane, Jackson and Ramsey, Citrus Ex-
change Building, Tampa, Florida. Three of the members
of this firm are graduates of the Washington and Lee
Law School—Mr. McKay, LL.B. 1904, Mr. MacFarlane,
LL.B. 1913, and Mr. Jackson, LL.B. 1908.

Wm. GILMER Lonc is in his twelfth
year as district judge of the two counties of
Garvin and Murray. He says: “In all the
men I have ever come in contact with and
known, Daddy Burks was the greatest
teacher of them all, and a great many times
now in the trial of a difficult and hard law
suit, I recall some statement he made or
principle that he announced as to what the

ar,

os

      

. qj :
4 4 -
i (4 ™*)
aoe
des
=

ntl ai

SorsBy JEMISON is assistant vice-president of The
Young & Vann Supply Company, industrial supplies and
heavy hardware, Birmingham, Alabama.

1910
JAsPER J. BARRETT is an attorney and counsellor at
law, 302-308 Southern Title and Trust Building, San
Diego, California.

WALTER McDONALD, to whom we are indebted for
inaugurating the whole Class Agent Plan, was in Lex-
ington for last Finals and, as usual, was surrounded by
his many friends. Last summer he moved
into his new home in Indian Hills, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.

: GEORGE WeEst ALLISON is commissioner
5 of Public Works in the Borough of Rich-
mond, New York, which office he has held

trustees of the Staten Island Academy, of
which he is also treasurer, and from which
his daughter was graduated in June last;

as

 

law was and I still find them true.” = Neal also serves as trustee of the Museum of
Donatp P. Boyer is representing the ea —— Arts and Sciences, trustee of the Staten Is-

Spencer Turbine Company, Hartford, Con- a Aare Ss land Zoological Society, and trustee of the

necticut. His address is 2804 DuPont Cir- aa Children’s Aid Society.

. ' ' 711 : a

cle, Richmond, Virginia. His son graduated —=_ Hucu M. Wirt is special agent of the

last year from Virginia Military Institute.

G. C. GABRIEL is minister of St. Paul’s Evangelical
Church, 54 First Avenue, Red Lion, Pennsylvania, which
charge he has held for eight years.

. H. McGIxz is location engineer for the New Mex-
ico State Highway Department, Santa Fe, New Mexico,
where he has lived for twenty-five years.

Rosert S. KEEBLER is a member of the legal staff of
the Federal Power Commission. He is married and has
four children—two boys and two girls. He writes: “You
will note that Basil Manly, an old Washington and Lee
man, is one of our commissioners. Until recently Dozier
DeVane, another Washington and Lee man, was solicitor
of the commission. C. M. Dold, another Washington and
lee man, is in our Bureau of Information. In fact, the
woods are full of Washington and Lee men.”

Jas. H. How tt recently received his commission as
postmaster of Waynesville, North Carolina, for another
four years.

1909

S. Gwynn Cok is head of the Department of History
and Political Science at Florida Southern College, Lake-
land, Florida, where he has been for twelve years.

Insurance Company of North America,
with offices in the American Building, Richmond, Va.

Jos. R. BLACKBURN lives at 1618 Virginia Street,
Charleston, West Virginia. His son, John, age 20, is now
a first classman at the United States Naval Academy.

1911

Ep Brown has been in the insurance business ever
since leaving Washington and Lee. He is married and has
seven children, the oldest now in his third year at Wash-
ington and Lee, and the youngest a girl five years old.

Harry O. STONE is vice-president of Robert Leckey,
Jr., Inc., Insurance-Surety Bonds, Mutual Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia. He spent seven years in China, got into
Tibet as the eighth white explorer, took a fling in the Rus-
sian army before America entered the war, drifted out of
there back to China, thence to America again as lieutenant
of infantry. Settled down in Richmond, married there and
began to compete with his fellowmen for the dollar. Has
four sons and a baby daughter.

1912
T. B. Rurr is in the Presbyterian ministry. He lives at
1101 Holly Street, Norfolk, Virginia. Says he has three

[21 |

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

boys now nearly as tall as he is with bigger feet and ap-
petites.

R. E. Ste EE is in charge of the tax department of the
State Corporation Commission. His office assesses state
and local taxes on all Public Service Corporation’s busses
and trucks operating in Virginia. The aggregate value of
these properties exceeds one billion dollars. In 1936, in
addition to his tax work, he was made director of aviation
for Virginia, and is in charge of the regulation and pro-
motion of aviation in the state.

RussELL B. W1nz is practicing law in the National
Bank of Commerce Building, San Antonio, Texas.

Ep Lyons says: “Strange it is—even those of us who
claim, or are claimed by, more than one Alma Mater, in-
variably think first of Washington and Lee. There is
something—not tangible perhaps—which takes hold in a
person’s innermost being and holds forever, something
about Washington and Lee which lasts and lasts.” Ed is
a chemist with Parke Davis and Company, 320 Fast
Grand Boulevard, Detroit, Michigan.

’. B. Harrison is agency manager of the Investor's
Syndicate, with offices in the Johnston Building, Char-
lotte, North Carolina.

Joun T. Cnarriecp of Bridgeport, Connecticut, still
has the “Chesterfieldian mien” of 1912. He has been suc-
cessful in holding a substantial practice.

O. L. McDonatp is in Clarksburg, West Virginia,
where for over two years he was city judge. He has also
been city solicitor, commissioner of accounts and divorce
commissioner.

Crayton E. WittrAMs (Skinny) is doing a grand
job of teaching law at Washington and Lee and helping
to keep our Alma Mater at the top of the law schools.

LAWRENCE E. GoLtpMAN enjoys a successful and
profitable law practice in Kansas City, Missouri. He has
visited Lexington several times in recent years.

1913

Henry E. Peepes writes: “Here’s greetings to all
the class of 1913 who came back to the class reunion and
more especially to those who did not. To those who could
not come I wish to say they missed a glorious adventure.
I knew it would be good but I had no idea how it would
arouse the old pristine enthusiasm. The class lived up to
its reputation and broke all records for attendance and
loyalty. To the future classes I will say don’t miss your
reunion or you will regret it.”

S. FE. Moors lives at 704 Webster Street, Palo Alto,

California. He writes: “And so, happy reminiscences of
the old days, dead yet alive, become illuminated once more
by the light of pleasant reflection. Memories, kindly and
generous to those of advancing years, turn back the pages
to the chapters of virile youth, an unclouded conscience, a
university's greensward and . white, majestic pillars.
Carefree were those days of learning the ritual of a noble
profession. When youth, in spirit at least, mounts upon
the wings of an eagle and soars to the heights of forma-
tive ambition, success is molded into the pattern of tri-
umph. But what, my friend, of those who, cut short at
an early period, have gone beyond. Hallowed be their
names, engraved indelibly upon our hearts. The fine men,
all of them, who were our teachers, have departed. So
time can be cruel as well as considerate. May their souls
rest in peace.”

1914

CLARENCE L. SAGER, past-president of Alumni, In-
corporated, is practicing law at 30 East Forty-second
Street, New York, and lives at Old Greenwich, Connecti-
cut. He and his charming wife were, of course, back for
last Finals. Was recently elected to the board of trustees
of the Empire City Savings Bank.

Henry N. BAKER is practicing law in Bristol, Ten-
nessee. He is married and has two children, a boy 13 and
a girl 10.

C. R. Avery is president of the Chattanooga Glass
Company, which specializes in the manufacture of pat-
ented glass bottles for Coca-Cola. His son, Lupton Avery,
is in his second year at Washington and Lee.

SAMUEL O. LAUGHTON, JR., says his chief ambition
and hope is to raise his three boys so that they may be
able eventually to enter and graduate from Washington
and Lee University. Their names are: Samuel Ott, 7;
William Philip, 2, and David Rownd, 13 months.

1915

Jor Mrxner is mayor of the city of Gulfport, Missis-
sippi, serving his fourteenth’ year in this capacity, having
been elected to this office five consecutive times. He also
operates the Coco-Cola Bottling Company at Gulfport
and is president of the company operating the Gulf Coast
Military Academy, a military school for young men, which
has an enrollment of 350 students.

Jerry BurKE is an agent for the Boston Insurance

Company at Appomattox, Virginia.

CHarLEs R. BEALL is a member of the law firm of
Martin, Seibert and Beall, Peoples Trust Building, Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia.

[22 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Kr Wrturams is with the DuPont Company in
Waynesboro, Virginia. Having been a class agent for the
past five years he understands the importance of a prompt
reply to his agent’s letter. Ki has a wife and a small boy—
two and a half years old. He is engaged in the manufac-
ture of “Acele” which is a synthetic fiber that is to rayon
just what the Four Hundred is to New York.

1916

Tuomas A. Mytss served as assistant prosecuting at-
torney of Fayette County, West Virginia, for about eight
years, and since January 1, 1937, has

 

has been since 1933. He also teaches law in the South-
eastern University in Washington.

H. J. BLackrorp is a member of the firm of A. M.
Law & Company, Stocks, Bonds, Insurance, Spartanburg,
South Carolina. He lives at 393 Connecticut Avenue.

WILLIAM LAMONT lives at 237 Grant Avenue, New
Brunswick, New Jersey.
1918

Futtron Hock is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liamson, Hoge, Sargent and Judson, Title Insurance
Building, Los Angeles, California. He

  

been divorce commissioner, which to- j “iy was married in 1934 and his residence
gether with his other practice has kept .” of - address is 2330 Chislehurst Drive, Los
him busy. He is married and has a daugh- genet Angeles, California.
ter, 13, and a boy seven years of age. f wet \ hi /
Fay Ee - 2 F = Joun H. SorreE ts is executive editor
Lycurcus Hyrk is practicing law in .@ es oy *" of the Scripps-Howard Newspapers, 230
Buckhannon, West Virginia. Ga Oee le  . Park Avenue, New York, and publisher
’ ; see Bt Ss ED ¢ of the Memphis Commercial Appeal.
EpMUND Macers is a certified public SS aa

accountant and senior examiner of the
State Department of Audits and Pub-
lic Accounts.

Pau. R. Scorr is at Fifteen Ex-
change Place, Jersey City, New Jersey.

L. BarrLe BaAcLey is farming near Fayetteville, Ten-
nessee.

Morey Dunn is practicing law at West Palm Beach,
Florida.

1917

Joun R. Branp is practicing law at Hobbs, New
Mexico. Says he is pretty well tied down but slips off for
an occasional fishing trip. Caught mackerel at Corpus
Christi and a jack-fish at Brownsville; spent about three
weeks in northern Chohuahua last fall on a hunt, good
luck—four turkeys and one deer besides small game. He
has also attained sufficient prowess at raising tulips as to
be requested by the Garden Club to talk on higher horti-
culture.

Jackson R. Cottins is here, there, and everywhere
all over the nation carrying on his duties as a lawyer rep-
resenting a nation-wide organization. He is an attorney
and counsellor at law, 111 Broadway, New York.

Britt BurTNER is attorney in the office of the Assist-
ant Solicitor General, Department of Justice, where he

 

[23]

James C. AMBLER is a member of
_ the firm of Ginn & Company, Publish-
ers, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York. His
.. duties are largely those of a sales man-
ager, covering the territory of Maryland,
District of Columbia, Virginia, North
Carolina and South Carolina. In 1933 he married Miss
Elsie Carter of Richmond, Virginia.

1919

Jesse W. BENTON is now practicing law by himself
but has been in partnership almost continuously since
leaving college. His home is in Danville, Virginia, and he
has a son seventeen years old and a girl twelve.

WituiaM J. DuNGAN is practicing law in Augusta,
Arkansas.

Henry Porter ForKeEr lives at 447 State Street,
Sharon, Pennsylvania. He is married and has a son,
fourteen, and a girl, twelve.

Joun H. Younc was an auditor in the Bureau of In-
ternal Revenue for six years and an internal revenue agent
in California and Washington, D. C., for the past twelve
years. His address is 3120 R Street, N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

1920

GrorcE S. MUELLER lives at 51 Quaker Ridge Road,
Manhasset, Long Island, New York.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Tom OrRDEMAN is associate professor of English in
Oregon State College.

W. F. (Bitt) Parker is practicing law in the In-
graham Building, Miami, Florida. He has two sons, one
eight and one ten. He says: “However, I am afraid that
this will not mean anything to the Washington and Lee
Law School, as I have definitely decided to make a plum-
ber out of one and a paper hanger out of the other. I must
get them into something with money in it.”

Emmett W. PorINnpDEXTER is practicing law at 120
Broadway and is associated with Iselin, Riggs, Ferris and
Mygatt. He has two future prospects for Washington and
Lee, Emmett, Jr., age eight, and Robert, age two.

HERBERT S. PowE t has been principal of the Central
High School at Painter, Virginia, for the past ten years.
He was married while a student at Washington and Lee;
they have two daughters.

Harotp Rosertson is chairman of the executive
board of the Virginia Baptist Orphanage. After gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee, Mr. Robertson practiced
law for some time in Beckley, West Virginia, and later
accepted a position as trust officer and attorney for the
Mountain Trust Bank of Roanoke, Virginia. In 1930 he
became vice-president of the Liberty Trust Company of
Roanoke and in 1934 was elected president of that bank-
ing institution, which position he now holds. He married
Miss Amelia Harveycutter. ‘They have two sons, Frank-
lin P., ten, and William H., eight.

1921

Wo. M. Tuck is a lawyer in South Boston, Virginia,
practicing under the firm name of Tuck & Mitchell.

H. Gray FUNKHOUSER teaches mathematics in Phil-
lips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire. He has a
boy, John Gray, four, and a daughter, Ann Louise, a lit-
tle over a year old.

Car_ton E. JEWET’? is justice of Police Court, Part
II, city of Richmond, Virginia.

A. MILLING BERNSTEIN is practicing law in Monroe,
Louisiana, with offices at 808 Ouichita National Bank
Building. He is married and has two children, a boy
twelve and a girl nine.

1922

EpGAR JACKSON says he is no longer the skinny person
he once was. He now weighs 190 pounds but boasts that
he still holds his waist-line down to a neat 33% inches.

He has been a member of the faculty of Maury High
School for thirteen years. His address is 1714 Bellevue
Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.

J. Linpsey Parton says he is a “sky-pilot’” of the
Episcopal genus. His church is situated right on the edge
of the campus of the University of California, so he is
still in touch with campus life.

Dr. Francis SUTHERLAND has been senior attending
surgeon to the Charlotte Hungerford Hospital, Torring-
ton, Connecticut. Prior to that time he served as an in-
structor in surgery in Yale Medical School.

Wacter K. Smiru, Jr., after leaving Washington and
Lee entered the School of Architecture at Harvard and
emerged with a Master’s degree; spent five years in Bos-
ton working in architects’ offices and going to school. He
moved to Lynchburg in 1928 and has been there ever
since. They do a general practice, specializing in schools.
In 1933 he married Marguerite Cummins of Shenandoah,
Virginia, and they have a daughter, Anne Courts, about a
year old.

1923

Lewis E. JArreTr has just been elected to serve his
third term as president of the Virginia Hospital Associa-
tion. The institution under his supervision has 424 beds,
and an annual budget in excess of half a million dollars.
Right now Dr. Jarrett’s attention is occupied with the con-
struction of over a million dollars worth of buildings, and
detailed plans are being drawn up for a new two-million
dollar building, to have a bed capacity of 750.

Lyte Sarrss still works for the Belle Alkali Com-
pany of Charleston, West Virginia, with which he started
out in 1923. Says he weighs about two hundred pounds,
which is thirty-five pounds more than when he was in
college. He is married and has a wife and two daughters.
Spends his summers at his camp on Coal River in St.
Albans.

1924

J. W. Frrcnerr is practicing law in the West Vir-
ginia Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Curis EBERLING has been employed by the Fidelity &
Deposit Company of Maryland since June 1, 1927. After
serving in other capacities he entered the production de-
partment as special representative and has continued in
that capacity since that time.

TuRNER Merritt has been with the Southern Bell
Telephone and Telegraph Company in Atlanta, Georgia,
for the past ten years, the past five years having been
spent in the general office. He covers nine states which

[24]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

has made it possible to contact old friends and make many
new ones. He is scoutmaster for a live Boy Scout troup
composed of boys from 12 to 16, and finds it the best pre-
ventitive for old age or even middle age that he has been
privileged to know about. Wonders if he is the only hach-
elor in the class of 1924.

Joun G. GUERRANT is with the Virginia Paper Com-
pany of Richmond, Virginia.

Joun F. HENpon has a large parking service business
in Birmingham, Alabama.

joun T. Born is practicing law in the old National
Bank Building, Evansville, Indiana, hav-
ing taken his law degree from Indiana
School of Law in 1925. During the past
year he has been going part time to
Evansville College, with the idea of
completing his requirements for an A.B.
degree.

1925

AvrrED H. GRIFFITH is practicing
law in Buena Vista, Virginia. He is mar-
ried and has one child. He has three
Alma Maters and treats them all well.

W. E. (Eppreé) Moore is married
and has two children, a girl and a boy.
Has been city attorney of Waynesboro, Virginia, for eae
past six years.

Tomas RuopeEs (Cap) NELSON is practicing law in
Staunton, Virginia. He and his attractive wife were in
Lexington for Homecoming.

Ranson B. Houcurns is traffic representative of
Mundy Motor Lines, P. O. Box 503, Roanoke, Virginia.

Marr PILCHER is vice-president of the Barnett Bank
of Avon Park, Florida. He is married and has a girl,
eleven, and a boy, three.

Roy Sack is with the Atlantic City Electric Com-
pany, Pacific and Kentucky Avenues, Atlantic City, New
Jersey. He is married and has a little girl nine years old.

Bos GoopricH is with the Franklin Limestone Com-
pany, Nashville, Tennessee.

Jor Horr resigned his position as prosecuting attor-
ney of Greenbrier County and went to Clarksburg, West
Virginia, in 1935. He is a member of the firm of Robin-
son & Stump (Howard L. Robinson, 1913, and John S$.
Stump, Jr., 1924). In 1935 he married Julia Beury of
Charleston and they now have two boys, Joseph Mc-
Whorter, Jr., and John Byrne.

 

1926

Wittiam H. Boyer is practicing law in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina. His firm is Boyer and Julian, with
offices in the Wachovia Bank Building.

EARL LESTER VALENTINE is president of the Chamber
of Commerce of Lexington, Virginia, and a prosperous
attorney-at-law.

Epwin A. Morris is with Blue Bell-Globe Manufac-
turing Company, Abingdon, Illinois.

Meyer Lu GoopMAN is a certified public accountant,
member of the firm of Jackson, Good-
man & Company, Citizens Bank Build-
ing, Norfolk, Virginia. He was married
in 1933.

1927
W. E. (STEAM) GacE is with W. A.
-. Gage & Company, Falls Building, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

J DEWEESE CarTER has been prac-
ticing law, since he finished school, at
Denton, Maryland. He is secretary of
~~ the Caroline County Bar Association.
His offices are in the Carter Building.

ALLEN Harris, JR., is with the Har-
ris Flooring Company, 21-33 Borden Avenue, Long Is-
land City, Long Island.

J. C. WiLzBurn is a member of the law firm of Wil-
burn, Miller and Wilburn, Meridian, Mississippi.

1928
GrorGE S. ARNOLD is receiver of the First National
Bank of Keyser, West Virginia. His home is in Romney,
West Virginia.
F. BuERK ZIMMERMAN is practicing medicine in
Greenup, Kentucky.

STUARD A. WURZBURGER is a member of the board of
governors of the Washington and Lee Alumni of New
York. He is with the Hercules Cement Corporation, 441
Lexington Avenue, New York, New York.

1929

SAM LANCASTER is assistant to the general solicitor of
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, Dallas, Texas.

Harry Fozzarp is practicing law, 318 Graham Build-
ing, Jacksonville, Florida.

WituiAM B. Lorr is working for the Federal Trade

[25]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Commission. His home is in the Upper Pontalba at 544
St. Peter Street, New Orleans, and his business address
is 217 Custom House, New Orleans, Louisiana.

P. C. Wuirtock has a new home, “Homewood,” in
Covington, Virginia. Has a boy, eight, and a girl, six.

Arr Stmmons lives in Adams, Massachusetts.

1930

Dick AMMERMAN is practicing law with his uncle in
Paris at 5, Avenue de L’Opera. He hopes to get back to
the United States some time soon.

Britt Mars is living at Fayetteville, North Carolina,
and is in the wholesale automobile parts business. He is
married and has a son about one and one-half years old.

Frank Evans is practicing law in Milledgeville,
Georgia, and is married to the former Anne Bone of his
home town.

W. T.. (Stim) Atsop is general manager of the Dixie
Lime Products Plant in Ocala, Florida.

Joun NELSON is a tobacco warehouseman and buyer
in Danville, Virginia.

SuurForpD NICHOLS is in the cotton business at Des
Arc, Arkansas.

1931

Horace Goocu has recently changed his address to
24 Baxter Street, Worcester, Massachusetts. He is with
Grafton & Knight Company, Research Leather Belting,
Leather Products-Tanners. He is married and has two
children.

Wittiam A. GLAscow, JR., was in a serious automo-
bile accident three years ago and when he wrote to his
class agent in June was still in a hospital with both legs
in a plaster cast, but hoped to be out in six weeks.

Sip CLay is assistant secretary-treasurer and assistant
trust officer of the Farmers Bank and Capital Trust Com-
pany, Frankfort, Kentucky.

Kart M. Smiru is manager of the Elmhurst Inn, on
the Ohio River Boulevard, Sweckley, Pennsylvania. Re-
ports a receding hair line, added weight, and that he is
still a bachelor.

Jor Macre is with the William Morris Theatre
Agency, Inc., Rockefeller Center, New York.

LeonaArD C. BorLanp is practicing dentistry at 2525
Smalley Court, Chicago, Illinois.

Ben D. Maxey has been with the Campbell Sales

Company (Campbell Soups) for the past four years. He
was married in 1935. His address is 644 Clay Avenue,
Scranton, Pennsylvania.

1932

J. S. Surevps is practicing law in Memphis, Tennes-
see. He is still a bachelor and does not intend to make any
change in the near future.

Jack SAvaGE is judge of the Intermediate Court of
Kanawha County, Charleston, West Virginia. Is mar-
ried and has a little daughter eight years old and a son,
D. J., Jr., nearly two years old.

Z. V. JouHNSON, JR., is still practicing law in Danville,
Virginia, with the firm, Aiken, Sanford and Johnson, 422
Masonic Building. He is unmarried.

Dick HAtt is with the Aetna Life Insurance Com-
pany, Miami, Florida. He writes that Charlie Fulton is
practicing law in Lake Worth, Florida, is married and
doing well; that Charlie’s running mate, George Bout-
well, is married and doing well in the dairy farm business
at Lake Worth; that Barney Spector is studying law at
the University of Miami and working at his father’s hotel
at Miami Beach.

Don THOMPSON is on leave of absence from his po-
sition at Florida Military Academy, and is working on his
doctorate in English at Harvard. He may be reached at
69 Perkins Hall, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Joun Bort is operating a combination dancing school
and ballroom in Cincinnati. His address is 2625 Gilbert
Avenue.

RIcHARD STILES graduated from the Foreign Service
school at Georgetown last June and is now with the Fed-
eral Government in Washington. His addres sis 6000
Thirteenth Street, N. W.

Rosert McBripk is still practicing law with McBride
and McBride in the Hillsboro Bank Building, Hillsboro,
Ohio.

Bos Hoan ky is in his third year of teaching at the
Hill School, Pottstown, Pennsylvania, and was planning
to spend the summe ron the continent. He spent his spring
holidays on a Caribbean cruise.

1933

Ws. F. (Britt) STons is practicing law in Martins-
ville, Virginia. Made the trip to the Kiwanis Convention
in San Francisco in June.

Britt WeEr’z is practicing law in Wooster, Ohio, under
the firm name of Edwin S. and William H. H. Wertz. He

[26]

The cAlumni M [agazine, W ashin gton and Lee University

 

was married to Miss Bonnie Jean Foster of Wooster,
Ohio, on March 11, 1938.

WALLACE B. SHEFFIELD is living in Americus, Geor-
gia. Is still flying a good bit, recently purchased a new
ship, and was appointed the first colonel of aviation in the
state of Georgia by the governor. Last October he mar-
ried Margaret Gay Owen of Cuthbert, Georgia.

SIMON PAINTER is athletic director of Bedford High
School, Bedford, Virginia, which position he has held
since getting out of school. Is married and has a baby girl
a little over a year old. He says Bedford is a grand town—
no taxes there!

Bos CapLa is with the Interstate Stores Company,
Owensboro, Kentucky.

1934

TAYLOR JONES is still practicing law with the same
firm he has been with for a number of years, Rogers &
Towers, Consolidated Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He
says he is still a bachelor with his chances of matrimony
thinning out as rapidly as are the hairs on his head.

JOHN SHRODER has been with the Pratt and Whiting
Aircraft Company in Hartford, Connecticut, for the past
two years. He was married in Setpember, 1936.

HaApLEY HAMILTON is in the ice and coal business in
Memphis, Tennessee. His address is care of Vance Ave-
|
nue Ice and Coal Company, 771 Vance Avenue.

Everett TucCKER graduated last year from the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati Law School and is practicing with
the law firm of Frantz, McConnell and Seymour in
Tucker, Arkansas.

1935

MEREDITH GRAHAM, recently married, is now assist-
ant treasurer of the State Mutual Insurance Company.
The State Mutual, incidentally, is a rapid growing life in-
surance company with its home office in Rome, Georgia.

GENE KREWSON is with the New York Life Insurance
Company, Washington Branch, Shoreham Building, Fif-
teenth and H Streets, Washington, D. C.

1936

KENNETH MacDonacp is studying medicine and
finds it becoming more and more interesting as time goes
on. His address is 179 Washington Avenue, Clifton, New
Jersey.

CHARLIE Kocu finished at Babson Institute last year
and has a job with the Harris Trust and Savings Bank.

He lives at the Lake Shore Athletic Club, 850 Lake Shore
Drive, Chicago.

1937

Amos BOoLEn, care of Fitzpatrick, Brown and Davis,
First Huntington National Bank Building, Huntington,
West Virginia, was a recent visitor to the campus with
his bride.

KENT Forster received his M.A. in history from the
University of Pennsylvania, and is continuing graduate
work in history there as a student assistant.

R. R. Rapciirr, 13 Rosemont Avenue, Frederick,
Maryland, has attended Pennsylvania State College, work-
ing on his M.S. in chemistry which he was to receive in
June.

ALFRED H. WISHNEw has changed his address to 115
Parkside Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. He completed
his studies at St. Johns University School of Law and
was planning to take the New York state bar examination
in June.

 

Marriages

Amos Boten, A.B. 1934 and LL.B. 1937, and Miss
Helen Johnston were married in Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, on October 29, 1938. Bolen, president of the stu-
dent body, football captain and member of Phi Beta
Kappa during his college years, now is practicing law in
Huntington.

ALFRED ZACHRY, B.S. 1937, and Miss Susan Jane Bat-
son were married October 8, 1938. They are at home at
1112 Anderson Street, Bristol, Tennessee.

ALBIN AUSTIN BrICKER, JR., class of 1937, and Miss
Sara Grace Hathorn were married November 9, 1938, at

the Metropolitan Memorial Methodist Church, Washing-
ton, D. C.

 

Births

WALLACE B. SHEFFIELD, class of 1933, and Mrs.
Sheffield announce the birth of a boy, Guy Owen Sheffield,
on October 4, 1938. The Sheffields are living at Americus,
Georgia.

FRANK J. Beckwirn, 1915, of Charles Town, West
Virginia, sends to the Alumni Office belated news of the

birth of a second son, George Scollay Beckwith, on De-
cember 12, 1937.

Mr. AND Mrs. Dwicut Asuvon Fire, LL.B. 1938,
of Beckley, West Virginia, have a son, Dwight Ashton,
Jr., who is looking forward to entering Washington and

Lee in 1956.

[27]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

ROBERT STERRETY, A.B. 1909, died in Monterey, Vir-
ginia, July 1, 1938. He was principal of the Monterey
High School.

RALPH ALBERT HERNsS, young Portsmouth, Virginia,
business man, died in that city recently. He was a mem-
ber of the class of 1931.

CapTraIN Horacé HALE Harvey, known in Louisiana
as the “Father of the Inland Waterways,” died at his

home at Harvey, near New Orleans, November 13, 1938.
He attended Washington and Lee in 1875-1876.

 

A Tribute to Miss Annie Jo White

At a regular semi-annual meeting of the Board of
‘Trustees of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorpor-
ated, held at the office of the Corporation on Friday,
October 21, 1938, the following resolution was unani-
mously adopted :

“WHEREAS, the Supreme Being has taken from among
us Miss Annie Jo White, who was for many years a part
of the life of the University, to which she gave the full
measure of service and devotion, and

“WuerEAs, the alumni throughout the country knew
and loved her, and while at the University received at her
hands that friendly interest and encouragement so neces-
sary to a happy student life, it is, therefore, by the Trus-
tees of Washington and Lee Alumni

“RESOLVED, That it is the sense of such trustees, speak-
ing for and on behalf of such alumni, that Miss Annie Jo
White rendered a rare service to the University, that the
place she made in the hearts and minds of those with
whom she came in contact in the performance of her
duties, will be of permanent benefit to the University and
to those who come after her, and that while the Univer-
sity and the Alumni have lost one who lived for them, the
work she did will endure as a lasting help to the future
student bodies of the University.

“Br Ir FurtHer REso_vep, That these resolutions
be made part of the records of this body and that a copy
thereof appear in the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.”

 

Local Alumni Association Notes
(Continued from page 18)
Arthur H. Alexander, Ethan Allen, Thornton W. AI-
len, Dr. George H. Barber, William S. Barker, W. Carl-

ton Bernard, David Birch, Daniel Blain, Terrence C.
Blake, Morris T. Booth, Dr. William Moseley Brown,

Leigh D. Bulluck, Jerry A. Burke, Jr., Nelson W. Burris,
William R. Burton, Judge E. C. Caffrey, James A. Cast-
ner, George Copeland.

John W. Davis, William P. Diggs, Irving E. Dobbs,
John W. Drye, Jr., Holmes Dyer, Carl A. Foss, George
R. Glynn, Roy J. Grimley, Hugh R. Hawthorne, Van Al-
len Hollomon, John Hudak, William E. Johnston, John
Hunter Jones, Benjamin A. Judd, Edward W. Lee, James
A. Lee, Leonard Leight, Albert Lustbader, Jack Gordon
Marks, Arthur McCain, Judge Charles J. McDermott,
Allen McDowell, William McKnight, Gossett W. Mc-
Rae, H. Graham Morrison, Jr., William T. Owen.

Emmett W. Poindexter, J. L. Powell, Milton B. Rog-
ers, Clarence L. Sager, Harold D. St. John, Henry A.
Sherwood, Jr., Raymond D. Smith, John D. Spohr, Dr.
John Newton Thomas, Vines E. Turnbull, Haven Wal-
ton, S. Mortimer Ward, III, William L. Webster, Price
Wililams, and Stuard A. Wurzburger.

Those attending the meeting included three members
of the University Board of Trustees, Messrs. Davis. Mc-
Dermott and Thomas, and two former presidents of the
general Alumni Association, Messrs. Caffrey and Sager.

Richmond

On the night of October 28, in the Blue Room of
Iwart’s Cafe, the Richmond alumni chapter held its an-
nual fall meeting. Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, president,
presided.

The guest speaker of the evening was Raymon T.
Johnson, a member of the law faculty. Short talks were
also made by R. A. Smith, Director of Athletics, and Cy
Young, Alumni Secretary. Several important business
matters were discussed and voted upon. Lewis Powell,
1929, was elected as the Richmond representative on the
newly-formed Alumni Council.

 

Paut C. Tuomas, class of 1915, has been elected
president of the Bluefield, West Virginia, Kiwanis Club.
He is secretary-treasurer of the Consolidated Brokerage
Company and for years has been active in the civic life of
Bluefield.

 

WALLACE TIFFANY, who received his A.B. at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1931 and his LL.B. in 1933, recently
was elected mayor of Warrenton, Virginia.

 

THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE earnestly requests news
from you—about yourself and about your friends who
went to Washington and Lee.

[28]

 

 

 

 

Renew Your Subscription

ah F YOUR subscription to The Alumni
Magazine has expired or is about to expire,
hadn’t you better renew it now while you're

in the mood?

ff too, that one way of helping
The Alumni Magazine is passing your copy

along and telling someone else to subscribe.

_——

—— <

i \,
J

o 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

...and to everybody
more smoking pleasure

 

Chesterfield Cigarettes in their
attractive Christmas cartons
appeal to everyone. Their
| refreshing mildness and _ better
stg: e taste give smokers everywhere

;
:

‘OL peat more pleasure.

( ‘hesterfie d Mere tiify

Copyright 1938, LicceTt & Myers ToBAcco Co.

