; STG a 2 ee
4 7 , Wainalu

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

of Washington and Lee University

 

April 1938
Vol. XIII
No. 4
$2.50 a year

 

 

 

 

You Would Not!

pour you even think of missing Finals
if there were any possibility you could
come back to renew your ties with the Univer-

sity? You would not!

Would you think of missing any news of your
University if that news were available? You
would not—not any more than you would pass

up an opportunity to come back for Finals.

Then pass along the word to someone who
doesn’t get the Alumni Magazine, and tell
him to subscribe. (Don’t you find a note
somewhere in this issue about someone you

knew, or knew about?)

But just in case you don’t return for Finals this
year, the Alumni Magazine will bring you a
special Finals Issue shortly after the close of

the session.

If you haven’t heard from your Class Agent,

you will—he deserves a reply!

Finals Will Be Held June 8, 9, and 10

Your friends will be here! Will you?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

W. F. Symonds, 1040 Judson Evanston.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

Pinkney Grissom, Republic Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Reed Graves, 300 Warwick Lane.

Louisville, Kentucky

John J. Davis, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

Allen Morgan, First National Bank.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D. 2.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California
Los Angeles
St. Louis, Missouri
John L, Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association
Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington Nationa]
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.
Washington, D. C.

Dozier DeVane, Federal Power Commission.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XIII APRIL 1938 No. 4

 

EN 5 5id ia Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor......... RICHARD P. CarTEr, 1929

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pobedage ce i ccc.ait CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President..............cccccc000. Kr Wittiams, 1915
Secretary. ......c..0: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TN OE Bia iss crutessesded. Stuart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Joun Bett Towl1xt, 1929
Jor T. Lyxgs, 1909
H. H. LArtmore, 1896
NorMAN FitzHucu, 1898

 

Contents for April 1938

PAGE
Finals: An Opportunity (‘The President’s Page) ..:................. 3
Bill Dyer Still Likes to Draw Cartoons......0....0..cccccccccccecceceecseee. +
_ Ousee meenoniete Gamnaneents. <0... 5
Charles J. Faulkner, 1898, Is Honored...............00..0ccc0000-----. 8
The Class of 1913 Plans a 1938 Reunion.......0..0..ccccccccccccecscee. 9
Washington and Lee’s Collection of Lee Papers Grows.......... 11
Old Sports and New Sports at the University.................. setae 13
Chats With Your Friends and Mine .....0...00.......cccccecccccscecceceseee 16
Local Alumni Association Notes..............0.ccccccccssccccesseseeececseesees 17

RI NON sk scene inucebiecbidckcdin suc thcaiciszcaaien dotecn 2utDhebec dia edie 19

 

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Finals: An Opportunity

(The President’s Page)

ot long ago I was a guest at a dinner party in Jack-
N sonville where two of the fellow guests were distin-
guished alumni of this institution. In the course of the al-
together pleasant conversation, both of these gentlemen
expressed a mild regret, which I have heard
from many other sources, that the class organi-
zation of their Alma Mater does not seem to
bind in very strong unity the individual mem-
bers throughout the years subsequent to the col-
lege experience.

They recited to me a story of a friend of
theirs who had graduated from a Northern in-
stitution and twenty years later suffered a long
and fatal illness. During the tedious months of
his sickness he received regularly letters from
classmates, not less frequently than once a month; and
after he died his Class took upon itself some measure of
responsibility for the education of his son. I gather that
everybody in that city had been impressed by the efficiency
as well as the generosity of class organization thus mani-

fested.
xk ok Ox

I can not believe that on any campus warmer friend-
ships are formed than those that are established upon the
green stretches of Washington and Lee. I am sure that no
alumni anywhere love their Alma Mater better or would
more willingly project into all of their lives those personal
ties, as well as the intangible influences, which have their
origin in this university. It is possible, however, that the
mode through which these ties may be perpetuated could
be materially strengthened.

a *

I am glad to believe that already certain processes are
in operation which will help to achieve this end. The Class
Agent plan, the method of the Alumni Association in es-
tablishing contacts with all alumni, in itself has interest-
ing possibilities if all the alumni will furnish the informa-
tion about themselves which this plan contemplates. Cer-
tain of our classes have permanent organizations and at
least one or two of them are thus enabled to keep in rea-
sonably close touch with all members of that particular
group. The Class Reunion, a feature of the commence-
nent program that seeks to bring back periodically mem-

 

bers of given graduating groups, is being more and more
emphasized. battigies
I could fervently wish that at the next Finals this
thought might receive much attention. I hope
that the outgoing senior class may effect a per-
manent organization with some plan of proce-
dure by which its members will keep a central
official informed. As a matter of fact most of
the changing on the part of the alumni, and
therefore most of the loss of contact, seem to
occur within the first five or ten years after
graduation.
eure

I could also hope that those classes which
have reunions may make an earnest effort to get
more frequently and distribute more widely the latest in-
formation to the various members. Of course any enlarge-
ment in the subscription list of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
will disseminate more knowledge to the various members

of the alumni groups.
Sore #

We have a peculiar problem and its solution will call
for devotion as well as intelligence. Our alumni, as well as
our students, are subject to much “‘scatterization” ; that is,
they live in very small groups over a widely distributed
territory. Much correspondence will be required and some-
times the officials in charge of this will be discouraged,
but efforts of this nature will certainly be fruitful.

* *«* *

It would be a grand enlargement or even fulfillment
of the function of Washington and Lee if friendships born
here could be nurtured carefully throughout mature years
and could be serviceable for enriching every single life
within this circle of true affection. Incidentally the Uni-
versity itself would be helped, but primarily our students
would be sustained by a feeling of the continuity of a
precious relationship.

Musi hc Oe.

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Bill Dyer Still Likes to Draw Cartoons

By Ricwarp P. CARTER

ACK in 1934 football spectators knew Bill Dyer as a
Pes te tackle on Washington and Lee’s Southern
Conference championship football team. But his team-
mates and almost everybody else in school knew him also
as an artist who liked to
draw cartoons just about
as much as he enjoyed

 
  

SORRY — BuT

playing football.

Now Bill Dyer is
drawing editorial and
sports cartoons for the
Knoxville, Tennessee,
News-Sentinel.

Bill’s football advis-
ers told him in 1934 if
he ever became as good
a cartoonist as he was
a football player he
would “get along” in the
world. The nature of
his work was and still
is comic, but the car-
toons in themselves
were serious business to
the six foot, two inch
tackle. He stuck to his
work, and he always
“got along.”

In 1934, at the top

of his gridiron career,

OVER MY
SHOULDE/e !

he did some sketches of
Sam Mattox, Bill Sea-
ton and George Glynn,
fellow members of the
team that won the Con- oe

ference title for the bat-

tling Generals. The

sketches were extra-good, and the Associated Press car-
ried a feature story on them, together with a picture of
Dyer in his football togs and a reproduction of the three
sketches. The story and the illustrations were circulated
throughout the country.

‘While in school,” Bill said recently, “I did covers for
the Southern Collegian and a few sketches for the Calyx.
Of course, you know about the sports cartoons I did for
the AP during my senior year. I really think these gave

 
 
  

CAN'T BO A THING
WITH YOU LOOKING

   

me a start in the cartooning business.” (Fine work, Bill;
| wrote the story, remember ?—R. P. C.)

Football was the only form of athletics Bill Dyer
really liked while at the University, but he also did enough
weight throwing in
track “to win a letter a
couple of times.”

Trying to find a job
in the cartooning busi-
ness was not so easy,
despite all of Bill Dyer’s
accomplishments and
abilities.

“I made a trip to
Chicago and tried all the
papers there, but there
was nothing doing,” he
said. “However, I later
made connections with
Scripps- Howard while
in Cincinnati and finally
landed in Knoxville.”

Bill is twenty-five
years old and has been
with the Knoxville
News-Sentinel for two
and a half years. He
started there as a sports
cartoonist and writer,
but now spends most of
his time with other fea-

 
    

tures. He does editorial
cartoons and an occa-
sional sports sketch, and

yo Eu turns out a weekly page
mepee-r* of sketches for the Sun-
day edition.

Even before he entered Washington and Lee Dyer
was drawing cartoons at his home in Johnson City, Tenn.

In December of 1936 the young cartoonist married
Elizabeth Parks of his home town.

Those who were in school with Dyer recall that he
was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and belonged to
O. D. K. and Sigma. The self-sketch accompanying this
story was done by Dyer especially for the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE.

    

[4]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Politics, Reformers and Results

By Cuartks F. CiarkeE, Jr., Editor of The Ring-tum Phi

(Eprtor’s Note: Washington and Lee students this
year departed from tradition and chose candidates for
student offices at a Nomination Convention that marked
the end of party politics on the campus. The editors of the
ALUMNI MacazingE, feeling that alumni would be inter-
ested in reading about the change as portrayed by a stu-
dent leader, asked Mr. Clarke to write the following ar-
ticle on the new set-up.)

AsT election day, Tuesday, April 12, Washington and
Lee had its first taste of open politics in five years.
For the first time that anyone in the Academic school
could recall, more than two men were opposed for a stu-
dent office, and so great was the interest and enthusiasm
that had been aroused in this election that more than 97
per cent of the student body cast a vote—the highest per-
centage in campus political history. In the entire student
body there were not more than a dozen men who failed to
vote or send in a proxy.

That election came as the culmination of a series of
political outbursts, revolutionary changes in election ma-
chinery, and more bitter factional strife than any student
and many a faculty oldster could remember. It began in
what appeared to be an abortive and crack-pot reform and
concluded with even more success than its sponsors had
dreamed.

Essentially, the change in affairs political on the cam-
pus hinges around a Nominating Convention, at which
two candidates are selected to oppose one another in the
general student body election, and in a provision against
“pledging” of fraternity and group votes. The plan itself,
however, cannot well be explained without a word about
the previous set-up in student governing affairs and the
almost universally expressed need for a change.

As young alumni are aware, campus politics at the
University for the last eight years has
hinged around a so-called “Big Clique” com-
posed of a majority of fraternities on the
campus, from among whose members all
student body and publication offices have
been almost universally selected. Non-
fraternity men and men not within the
charmed circle of clique houses have had al-
most unsurmountable odds to fight against --¥
as regards holding political offices. Five
years ago a short-lived and half-successful

 

revolt against the “Clique” resulted in the formation of
another Clique, which broke up the following year and
left the old Clique in an even more powerful position.

The mere fact that only men within the Clique houses
could hope to secure campus offices provided but one of
the complaints against the old scheme of things. Within
Clique houses themselves, dissatisfaction was rife because
usually one or two men, groomed from their freshman
year, were alone allowed to take an active part in political
affairs. Many “Cliquemen” rebelled when ordered by their
fraternity political chief to vote for a man whom they
knew to be inferior and whose election was secured by
vote-trading in which they had had no part. As long as
the men chosen for office were of good calibre, opposition
to this method of picking student officers never went be-
yond the grumbling stage, but of late years, as interest in
politics declined, the qualifications for office occasionally
had shown a tendency to favor men not always represen-
tative of the best in Washington and Lee.

Elections in the past few years had degenerated into a
routine “rubber-stamping” of previously selected candi-
dates. These candidates were usually selected by three or
four key men who, naturally, favored their friends and
those who had deliberately cultivated their acquaintance in
trying to win student body offices. ‘The average student
had no more to say about who should hold offices than a
Republican in South Carolina. Opposition to the Clique
and its policies has, during the last four years, been largely
centered in The Ring-tum Phi, in an occasional class elec-
tion and in the few campus organizations where special-
ized knowledge makes real qualifications necessary for
student officers.

Many of the political leaders themselves were desirous
of a change. Those with foresight realized that sooner or
later the Old Clique would break up and had to be con-
stantly on the alert in case a new line-up of
fraternities left their particular houses out.
Due to this fear of being thrown out of the
Clique, which had happened in several in-
stances after the revolt five years ago, po-
litical chiefs were afraid to sponsor reform
for the effect it might have on their own
¥) houses. Most of them favored a change, but
VaR. with non-Clique houses eager to get into the
group, they could not afford to risk their
own skins for such a purpose.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Last year, in an effort to liberalize student elections
and start an opening wedge in the otherwise invincible
Clique, the student Executive Committee and The Ring-
tum Phi sponsored, and by log-rolling tactics succeeded
in cramming through an amendment which enfranchised
all students instead of only those who had paid their cam-
pus tax. Since the largest share of non-paying campus tax
students were non-fraternity and non-Clique men, this
almost doubled the strength of the opposition. The Com-
mittee was forced to rush the measure through the student
body in a special assembly in order to forestall Clique ac-
tion to defeat it. Caught off-guard, Clique leaders were
unable to marshall their dissatisfied minions in time to stop
the granting of the vote to all students. Thus, last year
set the stage and prepared the way for this year’s changes.

Last fall it appeared that the Clique was as strong as
ever, for it had counterbalanced the increased opposition
by admitting two more non-Clique fraternities into its
ranks, increasing the number to 14 out of the 19 campus
fraternities. This very increase, however, caused more
dissatisfaction because there were now more houses bar-
gaining and more men interested in receiving Clique en-
dorsement for an office.

Originating in a group of students who were thrown
together in Christian Council meetings, a movement was
discussed for bettering student body politics. Once it was
started, a surprisingly large number of dissatisfied stu-
dents, most of them being members of Clique fraternities
themselves, were found who favored a change. During the
last week in February the first real meeting of the group
who finally pushed through the measure was held in the
O. D. K. room of the Student Union. Present at this
meeting were the following men, whose names are here-
with published for the first time: Ben Anderson, Sigma
Nu, president of the Interfraternity Council ; Will Rogers,
Phi Kappa Sigma, president of Fancy Dress this year and
captain of the 1937 football team; Harry Philpott, Kappa
Alpha, president of the Christian Council ; Bob Spessard,
Kappa Sigma, captain of the 1937-1938 basketball team ;
Charles Clarke, Beta Theta Pi. editor of The Ring-tum
Phi; Vaughan Beale, Delta Tau Delta, vice-president of
O. D. K., past holder of various campus honors and now
president-elect of the student body; Bill Brown, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, all “A” student and captain-elect of the
football team; Birnie Harper, Phi Delta Theta, vice-
president of Finals and of the Athletic Council; Buddy
Foltz, Phi Delta Theta, now business manager-elect of the
Calyx; Don Dunlap, Alpha Tau Omega, quarterback on
the football team ; Allan Snyder, Phi Kappa Psi, manager
of baseball and now business manager-elect of The Ring-
tum Phi; and Bill Read, Kappa Sigma, dormitory coun-
cillor. All but Beale and Snyder were members of “Clique”
houses.

Various plans for ending Clique dominance were dis-

cussed at this meeting and a committee composed of Phil-
pott, Anderson and Clarke was appointed to work out a
plan for a Nominating Convention. At the next meeting
the plan was adopted. The student Executive Committee,
before whom the new plan was then presented by Clarke,
a member of the committee, went over the proposal ex-
haustively and after several changes adopted it by a two-
thirds vote. It was then put before the student body and
finally adopted by a bare four-vote majority of the student
body.

Following the new plan, an All-School Nominating
Convention was held on Thursday, April 8, with Phil-
pott as chairman. Prior to the convention, a meeting of
approximately forty campus leaders, both those who had
opposed and those who had supported the plan, was held
to make sure that it would receive a fair trial. Opponents
of the measure promised to abide by its provisions and
talk of a possible coalition to defeat the purpose of the
new set-up was squelched.

The convention was composed of one-seventh of the
student body, selected by a system of proportional voting
from each fraternity and from the non-fraternity group.
In order to insure minorities in each house at least one
delegate to the convention, each fraternity member was
given the option of casting all his votes for one man rather
than spreading them among all the delegates from his
house. In this way, fraternity members who were in a
minority in their house could bunch their votes on one or
two delegates to insure their interests being represented.
One hundred and twenty-six delegates were thus chosen.

At the convention itself all candidates for an office were
put forward by regular nominating and _ seconding
speeches, similar to those used in state and national po-
litical conventions. The meeting was held during a uni-
versity holiday which had been declared for that purpose,
and was attended by many students besides those who
were delegates. After all candidates for any one office had
been nominated, the floor was thrown open for general
discussion, after which the delegates voted. The two can-
didates receiving the most votes were then declared to
have been accredited by the convention to run against one
another in the general student body elections. All together,
twenty men were thus chosen to oppose one another, only
in two cases, president and secretary of the Athletic Coun-
cil, was only one candidate nominated. The voting in the
convention was in all cases close, and in one instance, that
for the president of Finals, only ten votes separated the
man receiving the most votes from the one receiving the
least. Two ‘‘dark-horses,’’ men without previous political
background, were selected by the convention. One of
these, the president-elect of Finals, also won out in the
general elections.

During the four days between the convention and the
elections, a political rally was held in which the entire stu-

[6]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

dent body took part and all the usual speeches and placards
of a regular election were put forth with great gusto. The
elections themselves were close in practically every case.

Probably the most vital single provision in the amend-
ment was that which abolished the pledging of votes. All
delegates to the convention were required to swear upon
oath that they had not and would not engage in pledging.
Pledging was also outlawed in the general election itself
and in all class elections, with the penalty provided that
violators and their fraternities would lose the right to vote
and hold office for a year. This penalty, although it was
not invoked, served to ward off threats of possible pledg-
ing in several instances.

As has previously been mentioned, practically every
student in Washington and Lee took part in elections for
the first time in years. Since the election the sentiment on
campus has been overwhelmingly in favor of the amend-
ment and it is generally conceded that the old Clique
line-up has been definitely broken. The amendment is no
panacea, but those who worked for it and watched its first
trial feel sure that it represents a decided improvement in
political affairs in the student body, an improvement that
will last for the future and forever do away with Cliques
while encouraging political activity of the right kind and
enabling 126, rather than four or five men the chance to
nominate whom they believe best fitted.

 

A Letter From F. J. Walz

Ast MONTH the Alumni Office received an interest-
ing letter from F. J. Walz, class of 1885—so interesting
in fact that the editors decided it would interest readers of
the ALUMNI MacazineE. Mr. Walz lives at 2014 Chero-
kee Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky. The letter, in part,
follows:

“Tf it interests you I will say: My student years at
Washington and Lee ran from 1881 to 1885, inclusive,
and I was a candidate for the Civil Engineering degree.
But before I could complete my final year and get the de-
gree, | received (through the aid and recommendation of
General Custis Lee, president of Washington and Lee
University, and under whom I had the subject of Civil
Engineering) appointment to a position in the United
States Signal Service—afterwards the Weather Bureau.
I was therefore compelled to leave off my remaining stud-
ies and proceed to Washington for examination and ac-
ceptance. It was agreed, however, that I could return to
the University at some future time and stand special ex-
aminations for my degree. This I was unable to do for a
number of years, in fact not until June, 1903, when I ar-
ranged to come back for the examinations and also sub-
mitted some work as a thesis I had done when meteorol-

|

NI

 

Governor Holt of West Virginia, left, and Former Governor
Peery of Virginia—both Alumni—as they were photographed
together recently.

 

ogist for the state of Maryland and was located at and as-
sociated with Johns Hopkins University, and which was
published by the press of that institution.

scr

lhe thesis readily accepted and my examinations
proving entirely satisfactory to those in authority, I was
honored with the degree of B. S. in the School of Engi-
neering.

“T served in the Signal Corps and the Weather Bureau
for over 35 years, passing through by promotion practi-
cally all the grades from private to professor of meteor-
ology. And now in my seventy-sixth year am retired un-
der Civil Service rules with that designation.

“T might add in conclusion, that another Washington
and Lee alumnus, a classmate of mine, is also in retire-
ment with me under a like classification, namely, Pro-
fessor Wm. J. Humphreys, Cosmos Club, Washington,
aoe

 

KmMMEtT®T MacCork te, Jr., B. A. 1926, is assistant
sales manager, Cleveland District, Air Reduction Sales
Company. He is unmarried. He says he and Preston Ir-
win, 1910, are the only Washington and Lee alumni
among the active members of the University Club of
Cleveland.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Charles J. Faulkner, 1898, Is Honored

The following article on Charles J. Faulkner, LL. B.
1898, appeared in a recent issue of “Armour,” monthly
magazine issued by Armour and Company of Chicago.

G2 gs evening last month the members of the Law De-
partment of Armour and Company gathered at a
dinner at the Palmer House in Chicago to felicitate
Charles J. Faulkner, Jr., on the occasion of the twentieth
anniversary of his appointment as General Counsel. Re-
porting such affairs is not, strictly speaking, the function
of Armour, but this particular one seems to deserve at-
tention, partly because of the enthusiastic and sincere ac-
claim with which the department greeted its chief and
partly because of the exemplary record which Mr. Faulk-
ner has made as general counsel of the company since
1917 and as director of the company since 1928. Here is
certainly one occasion when passing out bouquets to the
living seems permissible.

Mr. Faulkner came to Armour and Company in 1905,
a few years after graduating from Washington and Lee
University. Son of an illustrious father, a United States
Senator from West Virginia and grandson of a United
States Ambassador to France, Mr. Faulkner might easily
have coasted along indefinitely on the reputation of his
forebears. Instead he chose a field far removed from his
home, and in that field he has carved out a place and a
reputation greatly to be admired.

When he became chief of the company’s law depart-
ment on November 7, 1917, Mr. Faulkner dropped right
into a cauldron which has bubbled more or less continu-
ously ever since. The World War was on. Emergency
laws and decrees affecting the industry streamed out of
Washington. The task of interpreting the war-time regu-
lations and showing the many units of the company how
to abide by them kept the general counsel’s lights burning
until late at night.

The end of the war found the economics of the pack-
ing industry turned topsy turvy. New methods of finance,
the Morris & Company purchase and the litigation over
food marketing regulations presented a gargantuan task
for Mr. Faulkner and his department. Post-war readjust-
ment had scarcely been completed from a legal standpoint
when the problems of the depression appeared. Financial
reorganization of the company, the AAA, the codes,
changing tax laws became the law department’s head-
aches.

These are only the high spots. The day-to-day grist of
Mr. Faulkner’s mill for the last thirty-two years has in-

volved national, state and local pure food laws, municipal
codes of every town in which Armour is represented, rail-
road rates and regulations, real estate purchases, sales and
leases, a multiplicity of labor laws; in fact, it is difficult to
find anything on the statute books which isn’t important
to the company.

We might express the hope that the pressure of the
law and the times would ease so that Mr. Faulkner, who
has advised four Armour presidents, could let down a bit.
He himself undoubtedly would speak out in favor of a
dearth of litigation.

But he wouldn’t like it! Along with his patience, gen-
tleness, courtesy and fairness he is a workhorse and in-
activity would pall on him.

Here are congratulations on the anniversary and hopes
for many more of them.

 

THREE interesting cards announcing achievements of
young alumni recently found their separate ways to the
Alumni Office. One brought the news that Lewis F.
Powell, Jr., B. S. 1929 and LL. B. 1931, has been made
a member of the law firm of Hunton, Williams, Ander-
son, Gay, and Moore at Richmond, Virginia. Another
from Dr. John Preston Davis, A. B. 1930, announced the
opening of his office in.the Nissen Building, Winston-
Salem, N. C. The third brought news that Jack Marks,
A. B. 1932, has been admitted as a member of the firm
of Marks & Marks, attorneys at law, 535 Fifth Avenue,
New York City.

 

Witt1AM Mark ey BELL, Jr., 1928, has lived in
Shawnee, Oklahoma, more than ten years and has been in
the lumber business there for the same length of time. In a
letter to the Alumni Office he said “Conditions have been
fairly good for the past three years” with the Bell Lum-
ber Company, Inc. Bell married June Noblitt of Tulla-
homa, Tennessee, in June of 1927; they have two chil-
dren, Barbara, age six, and William Markley Bell, III,
two and a half years old.

 

Dr. LeRoy C. Barret, 1897, was elected president of
the American Oriental Society at the annual meeting of
the Society on April 19-21. Dr. Barret is a member of the
faculty of Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut.

 

GLENN M. Brown, 1896, has exhibited etchings in
nearly all the best shows east of the Mississippi including
the Academy of Design, New York.

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Class of 1913 Plans a 1938 Reunion

 

weer ane

peas atte

~~ 5 “ ae eS ot we

Class Team, 1913:

 

Bottom Row: Crist, Turbyfill, Peeples (Captain), Bear, Richardson. Middle Row: Gilley-

   

Sa ES 4

ton, Potter, Davidson, Elliott, Gibson. Top Row: Erwin (Manager), Jalonick, Glass, Smith (Coach).

IME will roll back a decade and a half and memories
Bee the campus during America’s pre-war days will be
recalled when members of the class of 1913 celebrate
their twenty-fifth anniversary with a reunion at this year’s
Finals, June 8, 9 and 10.

Chief greeter for the reunion will be Richard Andrew
Smith, better known as the genial Dick Smith of the
athletic department, director of athletics at the University
and producer of Washington and Lee baseball teams. Dick
has been at Washington and Lee seventeen years now, and
he'll certainly be one of the first to extend a welcoming
hand to his old classmates.

Indications are that the reunion will be one of the best
ever held at Washington and Lee. Pete Gibson reported
this month that responses already have been received
from the following indicating that they will return to re-
new their acquaintance with their Alma Mater and with
old friends:

Doak Davidson, Bill Hogue, Milton Lockwood, Billy
Wright, John A. Bowman, Skinny Yonge, John Preston,
Ed Delaplaine, Ben Haden, P. D. Converse, “Blackeye”

Williams, P. C. Buford, Carter Glass, Jr., W. H. Womel-
dorf, Fred McWane, Lewis T'wyman, Howard Robinson,
Harry Moran, Ben Fiery, Henry Peeples and Roger Bear.
And, of course, Pete Gibson, attorney of Huntington,
West Virginia, who is chairman of the committee charged
with informing the class of plans for the reunion.

Deaths of two members of the class have been re-
vealed through efforts to convey information about the
get-together. John W. Elliott, Jr., of Colorado Springs,
Colorado, died December 10, 1937; Lawrence A. Steele
died February 21, 1938.

In a letter the first part of April, Gibson reported
seven letters were returned to him. Perhaps someone read-
ing this knows their whereabouts; the seven, with avail-
able addresses, are:

Harry F, Mathis, 250 Ben Avon Way, Memphis, Ten-
nessee; Harry A. Williams, Jr., 1049 Park Avenue, New
York City; Charles P. Grantham, Raleigh Banking and
Trust Company, Raleigh, North Carolina; James L.
Hook, Staunton, Virginia; Shleeman M. Yonan, 1270
Grove Street, San Francisco, California; Clarence C.

[9 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Geiselman, 205 San Jacinto Street, Houston, Texas; and
W. O. Dorsey of Dallas, Texas.

Members of the committee charged with mapping de-
tails for the reunion and with communicating with mem-
bers of the class prior to the gathering are: Ben Fiery,
Phillip Gibson, Harry Moran, Fred McWane, H. E. Pee-
ples, Howard Robinson, Lewis Twyman, and William A.
Wright.

Members of the class have been sent a bulletin that
contains information about the reunion, together with
sketches of familiar scenes that will greet their eyes when
they return. They’ll find, too, that the interiors of the ma-
jority of the buildings have been remodeled and mod-
ernized, although preserving the charm and atmosphere
that belongs definitely to Washington and Lee.

They’ll find the interior of the Washington College
group of main buildings changed especially, with more
comfortable quarters for the executive offices, the restored
Washington Chapel in the front of Washington Hall, and
—well, come back and see for yourself!

 

Twins on Track Team

Track CoacH Forest FLETCHER took his freshman
team over to the University of Virginia during the winter
for an indoor meet. He sent one likely looking runner
into one of the distance races, and he won.

He sent another likely looking runner into another
distance race immediately following, and the spectators
and other coaches gasped in amazement. He looked like
the same man who had just won the previous event.

Fletcher smiled.

Then the second likely looking runner won his race.

One of the coaches turned to Fletcher and said: “Boy,
he’s got something, hasn’t he? What a runner!”

Fletcher smiled again and explained that he had twins
on his freshman track team this year.

They are the Murray boys of Glencoe, Illinois, and
their identical appearance and characteristics are making
things difficult for those who turn out to watch the Lit-
tle Generals pace around the cinder path.

“They show promise of developing into outstanding
men in their respective events,” Fletcher, a former Olym-
pic hurdler, said. “They have run enough here to demon-
strate their competitive ability, and I expect a great deal
of them during their college track careers.”

George Murray won the Virginia state cross country
race for freshmen at Virginia Tech last fall. This spring
he is running the mile and his brother William is running
the half mile; Fletcher plans to use both of them in the
relay.

The Washington and Lee coach has no trouble telling
the boys apart, but others find it isn’t quite so easy. They

walk, run, talk and act alike; each is modest and unas-
suming and each is enrolled as an academic freshman.
They are eighteen years old.

Before coming to Washington and Lee, the Murrays
attended New Trier High School at New Trier, Illinois,
where they competed in the same events they are running
at the University.

Judge Caffrey Transferred

Jupcr Epwin C. Carrrey, 1909, has been transferred
from the Bergen County Circuit Court to the Essex
County Circuit Court in New Jersey. Judge Caffrey re-
cently was appointed the New Jersey member of the com-
mittee of the American Bar Association to suggest im-
provements in the law of evidence. He is the author of the
widely known “Caffrey on Evidence,” and is a recognized
authority on the subject.

Commenting on his new appointment to Essex County
a New Jersey newspaper said, “Judge Caffrey .. . has be-
come a part of the scene we know and love: a brilliant
and respected presence on the bench, austere, skilled, and
impeccable ; and a genial and gracious participant in his
jurisdiction’s affairs.”

Would You Leave Your Desk as It Is?

WE WERE IN LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, early one Sun-
day morning last summer and wandered around Washing-
ton and Lee University, of which General Robert E.. Lee
was president. Dick McClure of Chicago was also there at
another time and he calls our attention to General Lee’s
desk. Dick says:

“Under a glass cover repose the identical records, im-
plements, ornaments, etc., exactly as they were left for
the night when he departed one evening sixty-five years
ago—never again to return. As you gaze in silence on the
scene, for all the other office equipment of that day like-
wise stands as left, you naturally compare [ee’s office of
1870 with, say, your own of 1938.

“Next, perhaps you wonder what changes will have
been made in our present office layouts during the next
sixty-five years. But a more practical thought that’s likely
to come to mind is a silent resolution to leave your own
desk, each night hereafter, so arranged that if you should
never come back your associates would have no occasion
to apologize for the quality of your desk-keeping.”—
From the Curtis Courier, house organ of Curtis 1000, Inc.

 

 

 

Magruder Drake, 1936, is with the Fidelity and De-
posit Company of Maryland, Eastern Branch, Atlanta,
Georgia. He writes that he has seen many alumni since
living in Atlanta.

[10]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

W. and L.’s Collection of Lee Papers Grows

ASHINGTON AND LEE now has what is perhaps the
AF ies largest and most important collection of ma-
terial on General Robert E. Lee.

This became apparent when Dr. Gaines revealed that
the University has acquired most of the Lee letters and
documents from the collection of the late Alfred C. Meyer
of Chicago.

“Added to the numerous letters and various docu-
ments bearing General Lee’s signature which already were
in our possession, these letters (from the Meyer group)
give us a truly notable representation of General Lee’s
papers,’ Dr. Gaines has said.

“[ presume that from this time forward this Univer-
sity will be one of the major sources of information about
General Lee,” he added.

The bulk of Washington and Lee’s material on Lee is
centered about his later years, although the University
possesses valuable papers bearing on virtually all phases
of the Confederate hero’s life.

In Lee Memorial Chapel the University has preserved
carefully the room General Lee used as an office while di-
recting the affairs of Washington College. The room is
substantially the same as Lee left it, with books and pa-
pers—now protected
by glass — neatly ar-
ranged on the circular
desk he used.

A recently estab-
lished Lee Museum
adjoins the office and
contains in addition to
other valuables asso-
ciated with Lee, a col-
lection of portraits lent
by the late president
emeritus of the Uni-
versity, General Cus-
tis Lee. Most of the
portraits were moved
to Lexington from
Mount Vernon after
being acquired through
inheritance by General
Lee’s wife.

The highly prized
original Lee manu-
scripts are being kept,
however, in vaults

“where there can be no question of their safety,” Dr.
Gaines said. He added that the University “not only ap-
preciates the value of such papers, but protects them.”

Washington and Lee hopes to erect in the future a
new library building “where our original documents will
be kept safely, in a well-protected room, properly cata-
logued and made available for the uses of scholarship,”
Dr. Gaines said.

The Meyer letters and documents, which were given
to the University by “three alumni and a friend”’ other-
wise unidentified, are divided into four definite classifica-
tions denoting periods in General Lee’s life.

The first is a group of letters and documents written
before the war, including a letter of May 18, 1837, telling
of Lee’s orders to proceed to St. Louis for engineering
work on the Mississippi. The group contains thirty-seven
pieces.

The second group contains about 3,000 words and re-
lates to Lee’s campaign of 1862. Included is General Lee’s
official report to President Davis of his victory in the sec-
ond battle of Manassas, and Lee’s letter to President
Davis of his victory in the second battle of Manassas, and

(Continued on page 15)

 

4

General Lee’s Office in Lee Chapel

[11]

 

Photo Courtesy of The Roanoke Times
Charlie Curl, who ran the 100 in 9.9 this spring

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Old Sports and New Sports at the University

By WILLIAM B. Bacsery, 1938

ASHINGTON AND LEE’s oldest sports have assumed

more importance this spring than in a number of
years, chiefly because of the fine showing the crew made in
Florida during spring vacation when the combined Albert
Sydney and Harry Lee boat clubs outstroked the Marietta
(Ohio) ‘crew and lost by four feet to the Tars of Rollins
College in a second race. Rowing at Washington and Lee
a few years ago probably created more excitement and
real rivalry about I‘inals time than any other spring sport,
but until last spring the two clubs had almost become an-
cient history as far as interest in them was concerned.

Last year, members of the boat clubs decided that
crew was a sport which should not become extinct at
Washington and Lee and they arranged for three inter-
collegiate races. First they went to Florida where they
were beaten by Rollins College. Then Rollins came to
Lexington and the two schools raced in fours on North
River, the first intercollegiate boat races on the river at
Lexington since 1922 when Washington and Lee and Tu-
lane raced each other in the first intercollegiate boat races
ever staged in the South. The Washington and Lee crew
then went to New York and was beaten by Manhattan’s
eight on Harlem River.

With the victory over Marietta to their credit, together
with their fine showing against Rollins, the two clubs
again will go to New York at the end of April and row in
a regatta on the Harlem River with Manhattan and sev-
eral other crews. While on this northern trip the crew will
probably also race the crews of Dartmouth and Williams.

The clubs also staged an inter-club race during spring
dances this year like the annual race at Finals. Albert
Sydney was the victor in the April race by half a length.
Bill Kesel of Valley Stream, New York, is captain of the
Albert Sydney club and also acts as captain of the com-
bined clubs when they row eights in in-
tercollegiate meets. Other outstanding
oarsmen are Henry Braun of Tapachula,
Mexico; Bill Moscoso, Mayaguez, Puer-
to Rico; Bob Early, Cincinnati, Ohio;
Bob Davis, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin;
Charles Lykes, Houston, Texas; Oscar
Ennega, Freeport, Illinois; and Bill
Dunn, Birmingham, Alabama. ‘Tom
Crawford of Decatur, Illinois, acts as
coxswain.

Certainly the enterprise and sporting
enthusiasm of this group should be re-

 

warded. They are rowing in four-oared shells in which
their fathers probably pulled an oar in some Finals race
years ago. Certainly shifting from fours to eights as they
have done in all their intercollegiate races, they have made
a remarkable showing.

A new sport has appeared on the sports horizon at
Washington and Lee this spring. Like crew, this sport
is not sponsored by the athletic association but has arisen
from the love of the game by a group in the University.
The new sport is lacrosse and in their first four games
of the season, the Washington and Lee team dropped the
first to Virginia; they have won the last three in handy
style. The stickmen will get a chance to avenge the 10 to 5
defeat at the hands of the Wahoos when they play the
Virginia club again at Charlottesville on May 7. In the
second game of the season the lacrosse team downed Le-
high 9 to 2. After a game had to be cancelled with Johns
Hopkins because they were unable to obtain a field on
which to play America’s leading lacrosse team, they de-
feated on successive days North Carolina by 13 to 4 and
Duke by 8 to 2. Four games remain on the lacrosse sched-
ule—Virginia at Charlottesville on May 7; North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill, May 13; Duke at Durham, May 14;
and American University at Lexington, May 21.

The leader in inaugurating lacrosse at Washington and
Lee is sophomore John Alnutt of Baltimore, Maryland,
who acts as captain of the team. Larkin Farinholt, chem-
istry professor at Washington and Lee, and a former
Olympic lacrosse player, acts as coach of the team. Other
members of the team include Tom Berry, Cumberland,
Maryland; Alex Simpson, Westfield, New Jersey; Paul
Gourdon, Floral Park, New York; John Beck, Baltimore,
Maryland; Sherman Henderson, Reisterstown, Mary-
land; Jack Cook, Baltimore, Maryland; Calvert Thomas,

Baltimore, Maryland ; Bayard Berghaus,

. ~ Marietta, Pennsylvania ; Latimer Young,

Baltimore, Maryland; Rodney Odell,

Clifton, New Jersey; Ed Haislip, Cald-

well, New Jersey; Jock Stewart, Inde-

pendence, Kansas; and Harry Good-
heart, Denver, Colorado.

Turning from the new to the usual
spring sports, Captain Dick is having
pitcher trouble again this spring. The

“ Generals began the season with a bang,
defeating Ohio State in the opener here
on March 21 by the score of 3 to 2, but

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

they haven’t banged much since. Only two other victories
have been registered this spring. One was a 6-to 3 defeat
handed Apprentice School of Norfolk on the spring trip
and the other was a 2 to 0 shutout of Richmond’s Spiders
by Captain Dick’s ace, Roy Dart, who also hurled the
opening game against the Ohio State nine.

Co-Captains of the baseball team this spring are first
baseman Frank Frazier of Evanston, Illinois, and third
baseman Mike Tomlin of Cincinnati, Ohio. Sharing hurl-
ing duties with Roy Dart, who is from Jacksonville,
Florida, are Lea Booth, Danville, Virginia; Frank O’Con-
nor, New London, Connecticut; and Charles Skinner,
New York, New York.

One of the outstanding players on the team is sopho-
more Ronnie Thompson from Rockville Centre, New
York, who takes care of the shortstop position. Thomp-
son was also one of the best of Cy Young’s basketball
players who, incidentally, have just elected Bill Borries
of Louisville, Kentucky, captain of the 1939 General bas-
ketball squad. Another good sophomore player is Jack
Dangler of Brooklyn, New York, who handles the back-
stopping duties. Another capable performer is Lomax
Breckenridge from Fincastle, Virginia, who has a habit
of knocking the ball into “the next county” ever so often.

Material on the freshman baseball team is stronger
this year than it has been for the last few years. Lack of
practice has made the record of the freshman team unim-
pressive, but several of the freshman players will be of
great assistance to Captain Dick next season. In Kiah
Ford from Lynchburg the freshmen have a catcher who
knows and loves the game. Ernie James of Omaha, Ne-
braska, is probably the leading pitcher on the freshman
staff and when the team can be worked into shape, it
should win a number of its games before the season is
over and should strengthen considerably the varsity nine
next year.

Forest Fletcher's track team has won two meets this
spring since dropping the first meet of the year to Mary-
land. Washington and Lee defeated Richmond 85 to 41
and William and Mary 80% to 45%. Jim Rogers of
Wheeling, West Virginia, captain of this year’s team,
breezed over the high hurdles in the William and Mary
meet in 14.7 seconds, his time being a tenth of a second
lower than his mark made in winning the conference high
hurdle race last year. Charles Curl of Helena, Arkansas,
a sophomore, is one of the best dash men Coach Fletcher
has had in a number of years. Curl holds the Southern
Conference indoor record for the quarter mile. Harold
Harvey, a junior, is Conference champion in the half
mile, while Captain Rogers is high hurdle champion.

Among the freshman track hopefuls, the Murray
twins—George and Bill—of Glencoe, Illinois, and Bill
Soule of Glen Ridge, New Jersey, seem to have the edge
on the rest of the candidates. George Murray won the

 

Photo Courtesy of The Roanoke Times

Capt. Rogers, W. and L. high hurdle record holder at 14.7

Virginia state cross country race for freshmen at V. P. I.
last fall. George’s specialty in spring track is the mile,
while Bill runs the half mile. Coach Fletcher uses both
boys in the relays.

The golf team under the tutelage of Cy Twombly,
whose swimming teams have won the Conference cham-
pionship for the last four years, won its first match of the
season. Captain Spencer Kerkow of Covington, Kentucky,
led the linksmen to a 16% to 1% victory over Hampden-

[14]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Sydney on April 15. Washington and Lee will be host
school for the Southern Conference title play which will
be held on the Hot Springs course in May.

The tennis team has its most ambitious schedule in
several years this spring. The team has victories over
Hampden-Sydney, George Washington, Boston College,
and V. P. I., and only a single loss to the University of
Virginia. The Virginia match was the first of the year for
the Generals, who had only a few days practice before the
match with the Cavaliers. The Washington and Lee net-
men should make a greatly improved showing against
Virginia when they play again at Charlottesville on
April 29. The four victories have been by scores of 9 to 0,
while the defeat by Virginia was by the score of 8 to 1.
Dick Clements, Larchmont, New York, is the No. 1
Washington and Lee player. Captain Stuart Reynolds,
Anniston, Alabama; Robert Robertson, Murfreesboro,
‘Tennessee; William Washburn, Pensacola, Florida; Bill
Douglas, Elizabeth, New Jersey; Bob Fuller, Leonia,
New Jersey; and Charles Midelburg, Charleston, West
Virginia, are other outstanding racquet wielders on the
Washington and Lee team. The freshman tennis team
with a four-game schedule has Dick Pinck, who starred
on the freshman football and basketball teams as its out-
standing player.

Games remaining on the various varsity schedules are
as follows:

Baseball: April 29, V. P. I. at Blacksburg; May 6,
Georgetown at Washington ; May 7, Maryland at College
Park; May 11, Wake Forest at Lexington; May 14,
V. P. I. at Lexington ; and May 16, Virginia at Lexington.

Golf: April 28, Virginia at Charlottesville; May 5,
Richmond at Lexington; May 12, Duke at Lexington.

Tennis: April 29, Virginia at Charlottesville ; April 30,
William and Mary at Williamsburg; May 2, Elon at Lex-
ington; May 3, Richmond at Lexington; May 7, Loyola
at Lexington; May 11, Duke at Durham; May 16, Mary-
land at College Park; and May 17, George Washington at
Washington.

This survey ends four years of watching and attempt-
ing to predict what Washington and Lee teams would do.
Writing for the ALUMNI MaGazinsg has been a privilege
and a pleasure, and I wish that I might be at Washington
and Lee again next year to report to you the improved
records which I believe the Washington and Lee teams
are going to make.

 

Dean Tucker Visits Texas

DEAN Rosert H. Tucker renewed acquaintance with
a number of alumni in Dallas, Texas, in March when he
went there to attend sessions of the Association of Col-
leges and Secondary Schools of the Southern states. Most

of the alumni, he said, he found occupying offices in the
Republic Bank building or the First National Bank build-
ing. “I spent a very delightful afternoon discussing old
times and recent developments at Washington and Lee,”
Dean Tucker said. Among the alumni he visited were
George McClure, Charles E. Long, Jr., John E. Bailey,
Rosser Coke, Pinckney Grissom, Harris Cox, J. L. Lan-
caster, M. M. Crane, FE. A. Nesbitt, and Evan R. McCord.

 

Collection of Lee Papers Grows
(Continued from page 11)

Lee's letter to President Davis telling of the contents of
papers captured by General Stuart in a raid on General
Pope’s headquarters while the Confederate army was at-
tempting to outflank the Union forces on the Rappahan-
nock.

The campaign of 1864 is treated in the third collec-
tion, containing about 2,750 words. One of the letters,
written from Petersurg in July of 1864 to Davis, indicates
that Grant’s activities were puzzling Lee.

The fourth group contains letters and documents cov-
ering most of the phases of General Lee’s life from the
close of the War Between the States until his death.

 

Marriages

THomas DuNAWAy ANpERSON, LL. B. 1934, and
Miss Helen Louise Sharp were married at the First
Methodist Church at Austin, Texas, Februay 21, 1938.

Henry Ha te, Jr., of Memphis, class of 1928, and
Miss Joy Newburger were married recently.

The Alumni Office has received a note announcing the
engagement of RicHarp FE. Goocn, class of 1930, and
Miss Elizabeth Roderick Cole of Kew Gardens, Queens,
Long Island.

 

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. Ricwarp P. Carrer are the parents of
a son—their first child—born February 23, 1938. He is
named Richard Powell Carter, Jr. Carter, member of the
Washington and Lee journalism faculty and director of
the University News Bureau, is managing editor of the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

Mr. AND Mrs. Murrev (L&rty) KLE&in are the par-
ents of a second daughter, born February 22, 1938.
“Lefty” is a member of the class of 1925.

[15]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Youne, Alumni Secretary

s | begin writing these chats I always glance over the
A last issue of the Magazine to see where we left off.
‘This morning I see that in January I was giving you the
low-down on Fancy Dress. To us here on the campus this
occasion ends the winter social season and we begin to
look forward to what I personally think the finest season
of the year in Lexington—sPRING.

As I write this, spring is here in all its glory and I only
wish that some gathering of alumni could be arranged to
bring all of you back to the campus at this time of the
year when the dogwood, red bud, wis-
teria, iris, tulips and jonquils are in
bloom.

With the advent of the Easter dance
set the students also blossom forth in
spring attire, sport coats, sport shoes and
other sartorial accessories, and it is in-
teresting to watch them after classes are
over for the day, assembling on the ten-
nis courts and athletic fields in no attire
other than a pair of shorts. Most of these
boys are athletically inclined, but there
are some who get their athletic appear-
ance by sprawling in the sun anointed
with all the tan-inducing cosmetics they
can find, which gives the same effect without so much
effort.

This spring scene in Lexington is quite a contrast to
an experience I had recently returning from an alumni
meeting in Chicago. Mrs. Young and I were driving and
decided to leave the windy city early in the afternoon and
spend the night in Goshen, Indiana. It was a lovely spring
day, and we were enjoying the sites of the Calumet Dis-
trict of northern Indiana and looking forward to another
nice drive the following day. Much to our surprise, we
awakened to find ten inches of snow on the ground. It was
necessary for me to get back to Lexington as soon as pos-
sible, so I undertook to make it in the blizzard. We were
fifty miles from Ft. Wayne and it took me exactly three
hours to drive this distance. In this fifty miles there was
one other fool besides myself trying to drive. His was the
only vehicle we passed, and as he was going north I have
often wondered if he reached his destination. I am sure I
could not have reached mine had it not been for modern
methods of defrosting the windshield. It was quite an ex-
perience, and I will know better next time than to try and
drive to Chicago in the early spring. It was worth the ef-

 

fort, however, as the alumni meeting was a fine one. Our
Chicago alumni are certainly well organized and the work
they are doing speaks for itself in the fine number of stu-
dents they have sent us who are in school now. There are
thirty-one from Chicago and vicinity. I won’t go into de-
tail about the meeting as it is covered elsewhere in this
issue.

So many times I am asked the question by different
alumni organizations, ““What can we do to help?” and I
always say “Send us a few of your best boys.” No one
knows better than the alumnus the kind
of boy we want here at Washington and
Lee,

3y this time all of you should have
ceived the annual letter from your Class
Agent. In starting this column it was my
first thought to go down the list of
seventy-five class agents and write a
sketch of each of them. But I could fill
the entire Magazine with news of the
class agents and the Class Fund and there
would be room for nothing else.

I cannot say too much for the work
these men are doing for the University
and the General Alumni Association. It
is an unselfish service and deserves the cooperation of
each alumnus. It is true that every alumnus cannot con-
tribute to the class fund, but I can think of no reason why
a man should not at least show his agent the courtesy of
a reply to his letter.

The letters received by the class agents are always
forwarded to this office and we spend the summer editing.
them in order to bring our records up to date and pass on
through the columns of this publication the personal news
we have gathered.

We were late in getting started this year and I am
frank to say that I am not at all encouraged by the results
so far, but I have hopes that a majority of our alumni will
realize their obligation in this movement. We have spent
eight years trying to perfect this organization. The class
agent plan is sound, but to make it a success it must have
the cooperation of a large majority of the alumni.

Don’t put it off. Give your class agent a reply TopAy.

To get on a more pleasant subject: Are you planning
to be back for Finals? If you have not given it much
thought you should do so. It is one time of the year when

(Continued on page 18)

[16]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Washington

The Washington chapter of Washington and Lee
Alumni held its third annual mid-winter dinner on Wash-
ington’s birthday instead of on the anniversary of Lee’s
birth as in the past two years.

The dinner was held at the Bamboo Room of the Wil-
lard Hotel.

Guests of honor were D. Lawrence Groner, presiding
justice of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals;
Senator Reames of Oregon; Representative A. Willis
Robertson of Lexington; and Dean Frank J. Gilliam of
the University.

Dozier A. DeVane, president of the Washington
alumni chapter, presided. Highlights of the evening were
the presentation by Dean Gilliam, on behalf of the Uni-
versity, of an illuminated scroll to Judge Groner in ap-
preciation of his achievements and honors, and a talk by
Senator Reames in which he told of traveling across the
continent to enroll at Washington and Lee’s Law School.

Among those present were E. D. Campbell, 1918; C.
G. Harris, 1931; Vincent Miles; B. C. Flournoy, 1897;
I’. R. Flournoy, 1905; R. W. Hynson, 1906; Basil Manly,
1906; Fred P. Guthrie, 1911; Elwood Seal, 1914; Jas.
Quarles, 1897; Merle Suter, 1930; C. F. Suter, 1933;
Torrence Woolford, 1921; J. A. Wood; Chester Shade,
1920; John Ecker, 1928; H. V. Saunders, 1933; Walter
H. Dunlop, 1906; Theodore Benson, 1907; H. W. Kelly,
1913. Many of those present were accompanied by their
wives.

Louisville

Dr. Gaines addressed the Louisville chapter of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni at their meeting on March 9. The
meeting was presided over by Wathen Knebelkamp in
the absence of John J. Davis, who was ill.

Twenty-two alumni attended together with four
guests—Fred M. Nelson, M. R. Nelson, W. 'T’. Green and
Dr. C. W. Karraker. Alumni present were:

Ed. Axton, Jr., Dr. Richard A. Bate, Geo. Burks, R.
F. Cooper, N. C. Evans, Robert T. Foree, Jr., John Fai-
son, I’. Kennedy Helm, Robert P. Hobson, Wm. L. Hoge,
Norman Iler, J. C. Iler.

Martin Z. Kaplan, Murrel Klein, Wathen R. Knebel-
kamp, Chas. D. Mercke, Geo. S. Mercke, Jr., Ed. Rietze,
Jr., Farris A. Sampson, Greer Rolston Smiley, Arthur
Tabb, Ernest Woodward.

St. Louis

St. Louis alumni held their second monthly luncheon
March 8 with 17 present. They were:

Alfred F. Taylor, Bruce Seddin, Edwin H. Bacon,
H. D. McNew, Joseph R. Long, J. L. Patterson, Wm.
McC. Martin, J. H. Woods.

Charles Peeper, Earl Thompson, Jr., Chas. H. Reasor,
Alonson C. Brown, Jr., Norman Swearingen, Geo. R.
Edwards, David Carter, W. C. Magruder, Jr.

All expressed enthusiasm for the monthly luncheon
idea. ‘The luncheons are preceded by a bulletin giving the
time, place and notes about alumni and the University.

Dallas

On February 25 the North Texas Washington and
Lee Alumni Association held its annual dinner and dance
at the Baker Hotel in Dallas. Those in attendance came
from miles around, as indicated by the fact that even Bob
Howe, of the class of 1928, drove down with his wife
from Helena, Arkansas, for the evening. About twenty-
five loyal alumni, with their wives and ladies, joined in
celebrating the occasion and repledging their allegiance to
their Alma Mater.

After a delightful dinner the group heard speeches de-
livered in true Washington and Lee style, after which the
election of officers was held for the ensuing year. The fol-
lowing alumni were named to take over the duties of the
Association :

President, Pinkney Grissom, 1920, Dallas; Executive
Vice-President, Gaylord J. Stone, 1910, Fort Worth;
Vice-President, Rudy Copeland, 1923, Fort Worth; Sec-
retary-Treasurer, Chas. E. Long, Jr., 1932, Dallas.

The meeting then adjourned to the Mural Room of
the hotel for dancing.

Atlanta

Atlanta alumni held a small but enjoyale luncheon
February 15 with Dr. Gaines as their guest. Approxi-
mately fifteen alumni attended and heard the University

President talk briefly on current events at Washington

and Lee.

Those who attended included:

Willis K. Everett, 1921, Connally Building; Alex M.
Hitz, 1912, 1413 Citizens and Southern Bank Building ;

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ewing Sloan Humphreys, 1910, Box 1033, Healey Build-
ing; Walter McElreath, 1892, 304 Grant Building;
Thomas M. Stubbs, 1920, Healey Building; Bland Terry,
1912, 385 Argonne Drive; Wm. Asbury Ward, Jr., 1930,
928 Healey Building; Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916, 928
Healey Building; Henry E. Peeples, O’Neal & McCain;
Sam Smith, 1206 Peachtree Street, Apartment 509 ; Fran-
cis E. Fuller; Ewing D. Sloan; George Mosly, Boys’
High.

New Orleans

Washington and Lee alumni of New Orleans met
Ferbuary 26 at the home of Douglas S$. Anderson at Man-
deville, only a short drive from the city. Some alumni
found the date a conflict with New Orleans’ Mardi Gras
preparations and were unable to attend, but approximately
fifteen were present for the reunion and “enjoyed the
picnic luncheon of hot dogs and country sausage,” as Dean
Anderson expressed it.

Officers of the Association were re-elected: Dean An-
derson, president; J. C. Ewing, vice-president; and W.
W. Ogden, secretary-treasurer. The group discussed the
possibility of sounding out another Louisiana Associa-
tion with a view to fostering “co-operative activity” on
the part of the two groups.

Those present included: Mr. and Mrs. Walter M.
Gruley, Mr. and Mrs. O. H. Breidenbach, Mr. and Mrs.
Elmore Dufour, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Jahncke, Mr.
Wm. Anderson Collins and Mrs. Wm. Dufour, Mr. and
Mrs. F. Petin Hamilton, Mr. Palmer Orr and Miss
Dolores Morgadanes, William W. Ogden and his guest,
Miss Dunbar, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson.

Dr. Hugh M. Blain, who had until this time never
missed a reunion, was prevented from attending.

Chicago

The annual meeting of the Chicago Alumni Associa-
tion was held in the Hotel Knickerbocker at 6:30 p. m.,
Friday, April 1. The guest speakers of the evening were
Professor Forest Fletcher of Washington and Lee, and
Cy Young, Alumni Secretary. Philip P. Page, President
of the Chicago chapter, presided.

The local Association had as their guests several high
school boys who are interested in entering Washington
and Lee in September.

The following officers were elected for the coming
year : Elijah Funkhouser, president ; Thornton W. Snead,
vice-president ; W. F. Symonds, secretary.

Among those present were Edward A. O’ Neal, Her-
man P. Davidson, Robert F. Walker, Jr., Robert F. Wal-
ker, Richard D. Carver, Jack A. Williamson, Bill Hoof-
stitler, K. M. Stone, Wilbur Owen, George Schnath,

[18]

Philip P. Page, Glover Watt, Evans Jasper, Bill Jasper,
Charles R. Byrum, John Dix, Bill Jennings, Jim Snobble,
J. E. Snobble, J. A. Culley, Clarke Goodnow, C. McC.
Peale, Burke Williamson, A. D. Symonds, W. F. Sy-
monds, Elijah Funkhouser, Thornton W. Snead.

Memphis

On Saturday night, March 12, about 40 alumni gath-
ered at the Country Club of Memphis. In addition to the
former students, five boys, members of the senior classes
of Memphis schools, were in attendance.

Dr. Gaines made the principal speech. Every alumnus
present was invited to introduce himself and comment
upon significant facts in his experience with the school
and to ask any questions about the present status of the
University. Dr. George Powers, the president, served as
toastmaster. He was succeeded in this office by Allan D.
Morgan. Several of those present were from neighboring
communities in Mississippi or Arkansas. ‘Two members
of the faculty of Southwestern, C. P. Lee and M. E. Por-
ter, were included in the gathering and made brief talks.
The whole group expressed keen interest in the football
game scheduled for the fall of 1939 between the local in-
stitution, Southwestern, and Washington and Lee.

Baltimore

Baltimore alumni held their first of a series of lunch-
eon meetings on April 21.

Among those present were Jim Milbourne, Gene Mar-
tin, Johnny Meade, A. H. Chandler, O. R. Price, Herbert
H. Butler, F. Stanley Porter, C. S. Funkhouser, Emory
Landon, Dr. John W. Baylor and Joe Bruin.

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

(Continued from page 16)

we can all get together and really give this reminiscing a
good going over. Many of the classes are planning re-
unions and whether or not your class is one of these, you
should plan to come, because you are sure to see many of
your friends and have the time of your life. The dates are
June 8, 9 and 10. A little later you will receive a bulletin
giving full details. If any of you care to make your reser-
vations before the bulletin is received, let me hear from
you, because the last minute rush often makes it hard for
me to get desirable accommodations.

I will be seeing you on Alumni Day, Friday, June 10.

‘oe T

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1876

Dr. WittiAmM E. Dorp is retired and lives at 555
Seventeenth Street, University of Virginia.

1893

Dr. GEorcE BoLiinc LEE is practicing medicine at
The Plaza, New York City. He is a member of the Uni-
versity Board of ‘Trustees and gets to Lexington fre-
quently.

Joun H. Grirrirn is a retired minister of the Epis-
copal Church, living at Orkney Springs, Va.

R. E. Wape has retired from active duty with the
General Electric Company, with whom he had been as-
sociated for many years. He and his wife are living at
134 Spencer Avenue, Sansalito, Calif.

1894

Joun M. Grauam is president of the National City
Bank of Rome, Ga. His son, Meredith, who graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1935, was married in Sep-
tember.

R. W. JopLine is pastor of the Presbyterian Church
at Lancaster, S. C. He has a daughter 20 years old, a
graduate of Hollins College.

1896

A. M. DEAL is a member of the general assembly of
Georgia. He is the only county attorney that Bullock
County has ever had and has been serving in this capacity
for twenty years. He says he weighs 205
pounds, sleeps good, eats well, and enjoys
living.

1897 :
: y (Cy
BEN FLournoy is at present employed ay
in designing government buildings. His ad- Cob
dress is 1403 Thirty-first Street, N. W., ee
Washington, D. C. =
1 =
898 “fi oF

Harry S. Harper is a practicing attor-
ney with his office at 218 Gregg Building,
Burbank, California.

rch

RicHMOND W. Hott is chief accountant of the Pub-
lic Schools of the District of Columbia. His home address
is 1907 Kenyon Street, Washington, D. C.

Monrok C. List, who was in the government service
in Washington, died recently.

W. Ross McCain is president of the Aetna Fire In-
surance Company of Hartford, Connecticut.

WitiiaAM D. McSwEEN is practicing law in Newport,
Tennessee, a member of the firm of McSween and
Shepherd.

Rosert W. Mayo is practicing law in Dallas, Texas.
His address is 1108 Kirby Building.

Epw. A. O’ NEAL has been president of the American
Farm Bureau Federation for several years. His office is
at 58 East Washington Street, Chicago.

REDMOND I. Roop is a practicing attorney, located in
Christiansburg, Virginia.

Davin C. SATTERWHITE, who has been living in Bos-
ton, is now in Washington, D. C., with Stanley W. Hor-
ner, Inc., 1015 Fourteenth Street, N. W. His home ad-
dress is 2514 O Street, N. W.

1899

A. SEDDON JONEs is division sales manager for the
Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, Richmond, Va.

CoLonEL Arruur M. Suipp, United States Army,
retired, lives at 2350 Granada Way South, St. Petersburg,
Florida. He was a visitor to Lexington the
past summer.

TRUEMAN VANCE lives at 411 North
Street, Staunton, Va. He says:
grandfather, James Vance, was graduated
from Liberty Hall in 1796 and moved to
Kentucky, a Presbyterian preacher and
teacher of a classical school near Louisville,
of which his son, W. R. Vance, was later
mayor. He must have been well educated,
for I remember that in the little folder, his

, Lour-page catalogue, my father showed me,
“he offered to teach three languages, “the
belle lettres’’ and math. through calculus—

   

“My great-

i

    

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and at $16.00 a year or board and all for $8.00 a month.”

1902

R. O. Crocker’ is practicing law in Tazewell, Va.

Husert $. Moors is with the Virginia Bridge Com-
pany, in Roanoke, Va.

CHARLIE McNut'y is practicing law in Roanoke, Va.,
with offices in the Shenandoah Life Building.

W. G. McDowELt is Episcopal Bishop of Alabama.
His home is at 2015 Sixth Avenue, N., Birmingham, Ala.

1904

D. 'T. Moors is business manager of Greenbrier Mili-
tary School, Lewisburg, W. Va. He says: “This is one of
the honor schools of the country and has a very high scho-
lastic standing. Our rifle team is national champion this
year for the fifth time in the last seven years. A member
of our team is the individual champion of the United
States in military schools, and this makes the fifth time
we have had this honor in the past seven years. We have
sent a great many young men to Washington and Lee, and
the present head coach at Washington and Lee went there
from Greenbrier.”

LONNIE Howe t has been engaged in the practice of
law in Jacksonville, Fla., since 1905, and has been holding
public office for thirty-one years. His first position was as-
sistant municipal judge for five years, and he has been the
county prosecuting officer for twenty-six years. He says:
“Naturally during that time I have tried more criminal
cases than any living lawyer in the State of Florida.” He
is married and has two sons.

STEELE Hays is attorney-at-law, Hays Building, Rus-
sellville, Ark. He has a son, who practiced with him for
some time; is now in Washington as special assistant to
Dr. Alexander of the Resettlement Administration.

1906

J. Rospert Switzer is clerk of the circuit court, Har-
risonburg, Va. He has recently moved into a new home
and wants old friends to visit him.

Dr. F. R. CrAwForp is practicing medicine in Farm-
ville, Va.

BERNARD J. MAYER is a member of the law firm of
Lovejoy and Mayer, LaGrange, Ga.

SAMUEL L. PEERY, Butler Memorial Park, Carroll,
Ky., is acting as park engineer of the National Park Ser-
vice,

Joun E. Scorr, Assistant Engineer L. & N. R. R.,
says he has nothing to add to his record.

1907

WitiaAM L,. Lorp is in charge of the Department of
Mathematics at Woodberry Forest, Woodberry Forest,
Va. He has a son in the freshman class at Washington and
Lee this year.

1908

M. B. O’SuLtIvAN is practicing law at 1366 Third
Avenue, Louisville, Ky.

GrEoRGE PENN, JR., is a member of the law firm of
Kelly, Penn & Hunter, Kingsport, Tenn.

ABE STAPLES was successful in his campaign for re-
election as Attorney General of Virginia.

Joun W. NEwMAN is practicing law in Little Rock,
Ark. His offices are in the Southern Building.

1909

S. Gwynn Cok is head of the department of history
and political science at Florida Southern College, Lake-
land, Fla.

O. R. Prick is with the Western Maryland Railroad
in the capacity of valuation engineer.

1910

Jok BLAcKBuRN has been district engineer of the
Works Progress Administration, Charleston, W. Va. He
has a son at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis,
Md.

JAmrEs Netson Montcomery has for nearly twenty
years been a missionary in China. His address is Hwai-
anfu, Kiangsu Province, China.

Kart Meyer Leiru, whose fine tenor voice will be re-
membered by all of his classmates, is a professional mu-
sician. His address is Meyersdale, Pa.

Larry WItson has been steering the sales destinies of
the Greensboro Motor Car Company through good years,
then lean ones and back to now.

Martin WIrTHuHERs has been practicing law in Tampa,
Fla., for the past twenty-five years. His offices are in the
First National Bank Building.

1911

Rosert A. RUSSELL is practicing law in Rustburg, Va.

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. Tom Watson is practicing law in Tampa, Fla., with
offices in the Peninsular Telephone Building.

GrEorGE W. CHANEY, who has a son in his second
year at Washington and Lee, is practicing law in Roanoke,
Va., with offices in the Colonial-American Building.

Dana Hopopon and his wife paid a visit to Lexington
during last summer. Dana is assigned to the American
Consulate General at Berlin, Germany.

1912

R. T. Stinson has had a long illness but is now en-
tirely recovered and practicing law as a member of the
firm of Utterback, Stinson and Utter-
back in Durant, Oklahoma.

G. H. BRANAMAN is practicing law
in Waynesboro, Va. His son graduated
at Washington and Lee in 1935 and is
studying medicine at the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in Richmond.

Hopcrs MANN., JR., is commis-
sioner in chancery for all the courts in
the vicinity of Petersburg, Va. His of-
fices are in the Union Trust Building.

 

1914

Rosert M. McGeuee is director of the Department
of Religious Education of the Synod of Louisiana.

J. Cart FisHeEr lives at 208 Witherspoon Road,
Homeland, Baltimore, Maryland.

S. E. Ocrespy is a physician in Lynchburg, Virginia.

1915

Dick FowLKkEs is practicing medicine in Richmond,
Virginia. His offices are in the Professional Building.

JERRY BuRKE is superintendent of Appomattox
County Public Schools, Appomattox,
i Virginia. |

Mike Bristow is making investi-
gations and adjustments for insurance
companies. His offices are in the Krise
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Woopson HoucuHron is a member
of the law firm of Ellis, Houghton &
Ellis, Southern Building, Washington,
District of Columbia.

és , ss ae Cocue NEAL is vice-president of the
a et =. : ‘
jAMER DOMMEVTLEE, a Pe AP ate “ae _ Second National Bank of Houston,
LL. B. 1914, is with the American Em- = SO Texieny Fle ‘ia Voi freqtnist sotitvon Sane
bassy, Bush House, Aldwych, W. C. 2, ——.
—_— us.
London, England. camp
1916

JoHn LANCASTER is practicing law in Farmville, Va.

W. S. Dunn is practicing law in Bland, Va.

1913

GAYLORD STONE is president of the Universal Mills,
makers of Red Chain and Gold Chain Flour, Fort Worth,
Texas. He says he will always be proud of the fact that
he attended the most unique and outstanding institution
of learning in America.

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON is a member of the law firm of
Williamson and Williamson, Monticello, Ark.

CLIFFORD Foster is in the circulation department of
the Memphis Commercial Appeal, “The South’s Greatest
Newspaper” ; has a son born in 1923; says his “big boss”
is Johnny Sorrells.

J. M. QUILLIN, JR., is practicing law in Coeburn, Va.
In 1919 he married Miss Verna Kilgore and they have
four children. He is devoting most of his time to farming,
coal mining and real estate.

T. A. MyLEs is practicing law in Fayetteville, W. Va.
He is married and has three children, all in school.

CHARLES T. HERNDON, JR., has a boy who made the
highest average ever made in the high school in Kingsport,
Tenn. He also has a daughter who is doing well in school.
Charles is practicing law in Kingsport.

PauL R. Scorr’s law offices are at 465 East Fifty-
Seventh Street, New York.

WILLIAM S. HOLLAND is practicing law in Suffolk,
Va. He says his chief assets are five children.

1917

J. R. CAMPBELL is with the Birch Valley Lumber
Company manufacturers of West Virginia hardwood, at

Tioga, W. Va.

JAMEs A. LEE is managing editor of Chemical & Me-
tallurgical Engineering, at McGraw-Hill Publishing Com-
pany publication.

[21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Hersert G. Perers, Jr., LL. B. 1917, recently was
elected president of the Bristol, Virginia, Bar Associa-
tion. Herbert is a member of the firm of Peters, Lavinder,
Peters and Rouse.

1918

W. P. DANIEL is superintendent of the New Albany
City Schools, New Albany, Miss. He has two sons, one of
whom will be ready for college next year.

RAYMOND BEar is with the bureau of aeronautics,
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

1919

Tom GILLIAM is an officer in the Lynchburg National
Bank, Lynchburg, Va. He married Mary Truett of Dallas,
Texas, and they have two little girls, Truett, age 9 and
Jessica, age 6. He is president of the board of trustees of
the Virginia Baptist Hospital. He says that he attended a
regional bankers’ conference of the American Bankers’
Association, and one of the outstanding addresses was
given by Jim Penick of the Class of 1919, who is a promi-
nent banker of Little Rock, Ark.

Dr. T. Dewey Davis has been associated with Dr.
Vanderhoof in the practice of medicine in Richmond, Va.,
for fourteen years. Dr. Vanderhoof retired about a year
ago and turned over his practice to Dr. Davis. He says
that since that time he has had very little opportunity to
engage in a sit-down strike of any kind.

FRANK JACOBS, JR., is practicing law in Bell Air, Md.,
under the firm name of Jacobs and Cameron.

1920

PINKNEY Grissom has been engaged in the general
practice of civil law in Dallas, Texas, since the fall of
1920, specializing in insurance law and trial work. Since
1934 he has been a member of the firm of Thompson,
Knight, Baker and Harris. He is married and has three
sons, Pinkney, Jr., 15; John, 14; and David, 19 months
old.

JosEpH GLICKSTEIN was admitted to the Florida bar
in 1920. He is engaged in general civil practice in the state
and federal courts. Corporation, real estate, probate, bank-
ruptcy and insurance law. He married Myra Mae Grun-
thal and they have two sons, Joseph M., Jr., aged 10, and
Hugh Selwyn, aged 5. They live at 1355 Edgewood Ave-
nue, Jacksonville, Fla.

Evpon P. Kine is a special attorney in the office of
Solicitor of Internal Revenue. He is married and has a
daughter.

Fapyo Cravens has been practicing law in Fort Smith
since leaving Washington and Lee. He is a member of the
firm of Cravens, Cravens & Friedman. Is married and has
two children.

1921

Roy Grimey has been practicing law in Ridgewood,
N. J., for fifteen years. He has a boy, ten, and a girl, eight.

Cart E. L. Git is with the Textile Labor Relations
Board, helping settle labor disputes. His permanent ad-
dress is 6015 Broad Branch Road, Washington, D. C.

B. H. Nesierr is employed as a special attorney in the
chief counsel’s office of the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
His home is 1407 North Glebe Road, Arlington, Va.

1922

Rosert M. “Cuppy” Bear is a professor in the de-
partment of psychology at Dartmouth. He has recently
published a book.

1923

Cuartes L,. Terry, Jr., has been appointed secretary
of State of Delaware. His address is 225 South State
Street, Dover, Dela.

Warp C. Exrior’ is vice-president of the Elliott Busi-
ness School of Wheeling, W. Va., of which his father is
president.

1924

Jack LoveLace, 1924, was elected Commonwealth’s
Attorney for the city of Suffolk, Virginia, last November
and has been in office since January of this year.

SuirceEy FE. (Buck) SNAVELY, who has been living in
Venezuela, has been transferred to Mexico City. He is
now buying tobacco for all the British-American ‘Tobacco
Company plants in Mexico, and lives with his wife and
young son at Paseo de La Reforma 1410, Mexico, D. F.

J. W. Frreuert is practicing law in the Union Bank
Building, Huntington, W. Va.

SINCLAIR PHILLIPS is practicing law in Newport
News, Va. He was married in 1927 to Alice Elizabeth
Burns of Tampa, Fla. Is a police justice and has many in-
teresting experiences in connection with this work.

B. L. Maton is practicing law in St. Petersburg,
Fla. He married Florence Bomar Phinizy and they have
three sons, who “sometimes in trio break forth and render
the ‘Swing’ with such gusto that there is little doubt as to
what their Alma Mater will be.”

[22

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Harry Suuey is vice-president of the Morganton
Furniture Company, Morganton, N. C.

ArtTHUR GLICKSTEIN is a member of the law firm of
Glickstein & Berg, 50 Broad Street, New York.

1925
LUTHER L,. Coptry has moved his law offices from the
Florida National Bank Building to 1217 Security Build-
ing, Miami, Florida.

GrorcE CLarK is practicing in Miami, Florida, with
offices in the Ingraham Building.

CLARENCE E. HINKLE is a member of the law firm of
Hervey, Dow, Hill & Hinkle, Roswell, New Mexico.

1926

NELSon Burris is working in the
Strikers Lane Community Center, 554
West Fifty-Third Street, New York.

RussELL L. Gorpon is with the
Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company,
309 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago,
Illinois.

Wy j

rr

 

i) A hi
Ulta)

1927

Witt1am H. Boyer is practicing
law in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

CaRLTON WALTERS is_ practicing
law in New York City with offices at
1 Liberty Street. Most of his work consists of negli-
gence practice with the Great American Indemnity Com-
pany. He is married and has a son about a year old. His
home address is 51 Lincoln Avenue, Long Island, N. Y.

James Kay THomas is a member of the house of dele-
gates of the state of West Virginia.

Gipson WITHERSPOON is a member of the firm of
Witherspoon and Corey, attorneys-at-law, 211 Lawyers
Building, Meridian, Miss.

1928

Bos Brrry works on the Sunday Magazine and other
Sunday departments of the New York Times. His ad-
dress is 1 Patchin Place, New York.

Cuarces FE. BRANHAM is national advertising man-
ager of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, Va.

1929

Harry Gopwin has changed his address to 1712 Estes
Avenue, Chicago, Ill. He is with Standard Oil of Indiana

    
 

in charge of sales promotion in service stations in Chi-
cago’s northern suburbs up to the Wisconsin line. He is
married and has two little girls, four and one years old,
respectively. Promises to answer all letters written him by
his classmates.

FRANK PARKER is with the Rose Cliff Company, Inc.,
horticulturists, Waynesboro, Va. He says his daughter,
two and a half, is already his boss.

Ep Mapison is practicing law in Bastrop and Monroe,
La., in the firm of Madison, Madison & Fuller. He lives

in Bastrop.
1930

Eart Tuomas JONEs is doing accounting work with
the United States Engineering Office,
Norfolk, Virginia.

Hersert B. Crow ey is physical
director for the Panama Canal Zone.
His address is Box 179, Balboa, C. Z.

BERNARD MeErrIcK has completed
his fifth year as principal of Church
Hill High School, Crumpton, Md.

PuiLto LINnpsEy is connected with
the Lindsey Lamber and Export Com-
pany of Mobile, Alabama.

Dick DoucHtis is in the cottonseed
oil mill business and doing some farm-
ing on the side. He is still single.

STANLEY F. Hampron is on the staff and faculty of
the University Hospitals, University of Iowa; has held
this position for three years.

ALBERT STEVES, III, is manager of Ed Steves & Sons.
He recently built a new home in Terrell Hills, San An-
tonio, Texas.

Grorce WILLITS PARKER has been in newspaper work
since 1930 and is owner of the Tuckertown Beacon and
Beach Haven Times, 'Tuckertown, N. J.

1931

FRANK BrEApDy is married and has a daughter who
was three years old in March. Frank is in the food brok-
erage business in Philadelphia, and is secretary-treasurer
of the active Washington and Lee Alumni Club in that
city.

1932

CHARLES Woop was married last September to Miss
Anna Marie Zimmerman. He is practicing law in Char-

leston, W. Va.

[23]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Jack M. Marruews says he has three of the best bird
dogs in the state of Virginia, in the South, maybe in the
whole United States. He is practicing law in Galax, Va.

Henry MacKenzie has changed his address to Law-
yer’s Title Insurance Corp., 1111 East Main Street, Rich-
mond, Va.

BRECKENRIDGE Heaps is practicing law in Bel Air,
Md., and farming also. He is married and has two daugh-
ters.

CHARLIE Woop, LL. B. 1932, has given up the prac-
tice of law and is devoting his full time as Managing Di-
rector of the Kanawha Valley Safety Council, City Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

1933

ALLEN WorForpD is with the Prudential Insurance
Company at Johnson City, Tenn. He was married to Miss
Marianna Jennings, of his home town, on June 23.

HILvLiarD Harper is assistant sales manager for Creel
Brothers, wholesale distributors of automotive parts and
electrical automotive equipment. Reports a large number
of Washington and Lee alumni in Washington who fre-
quently get together for “bull sessions.”

1935
Rupo_tpH BUMGARDNER is practicing law in Staunton,
Virginia.
J. Howett Gtover is practicing law in Union City,
‘Tennessee.

Davin MacDona .p, Jr., is a member of the law firm
of MacDonald & MacDonald, Durant, Okla.

1936

N. D. Coarss has been in the insurance business in
Miami, Fla., for about two years. His new address is 68
S. W. Twenty-Second Road, Miami, Fla.

Davin BASILE is doing further work at Columbia.

T’. CHALMERS VINSON writes from 17 Cedar Lane,
Galveston, Texas. He is now in his second year at the
medical branch of the University of Texas.

W. Carvton Bernarp, LL. B., 1937, and Joun Mc-
Nett, LL. B., 1936, passed the New York bar examina-
tion in October.

ArtHurR AHL and “BRowNIE” BROWNWELL, both
LL. B.’s, 1936, are practicing law in New York.

In Memoriam

Epwarp Lacy GraHam, Washington and Lee alum-
nus and brother of Professor John Graham of the Uni-
versity faculty, died at Lexington April 10; he had been
Lexington’s postmaster for five years. Mr. Graham, direct
descendent of the Rev. William Graham, first president
of Liberty Hall Academy, attended Washington and Lee
in 1910 and 1911. He served with distinction in the World
War.

Dr. DuNcAN LYLE CAMBPELL, who was graduated
from Washington College in 1869, died recently at Mc-
Donough School near Baltimore. He was ninety-one years
old and was known as “the grand old man of McDonough
School.”

Peyton RANpotpH Harrison, Jr., B. S. 1928 and
LL. B. 1930, died February 16 following an operation at
a Baltimore hospital.

WILLIAM PRENTISS Brown, retired Tulane Univer-
sity professor, died in January. He went to Tulane in
1898 as a graduate student after attending Washington
and Lee.

Rosert Lee Hyarr, LL. B. 1893, died in a Little
Rock, Arkansas, Union Bank and Trust Company some
thirty-seven years.

Former Virginia State Senator Cecit Connor, LL. B.
1896, died suddenly February 18 while arguing a case be-
fore a jury at the Leesburg, Virginia, courthouse.

Harris W. Garrow, class of 1896, well-known Hous-
ton, Texas, cotton merchant, died at his home in that city
on February 7.

Rosert Epwarp JoHNnston of Murat, Virginia, class
of 1904, died at his sister’s home in Augusta County, Vir-
ginia, on February 17.

Jacos K. Hirscu, class of 1894, long prominent in
Mississippi legal circles, died at Vicksburg, Mississippi,
recently.

The Ricutr Rev. Wittiam G. McDowE -t, B. A.
1902, bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Alabama, died in
Mobile, Alabama, March 20 following a week’s illness. He
was stricken during his annual visit to Mobile churches.

Wittram B. McCruer, A. B. 1879, died in Lexing-
ton, Virginia, February 19, after a long illness. A native
of Rockbridge County, he went to Chicago to live after
graduating from Washington and Lee, and had a very
successful business career. Mr. McCluer retired several
years ago and made his home with his cousins, the Misses
Herring, near Natural Bridge, Virginia. He was a mem-
ber of the A. T. O. fraternity.

[24]

 

 

McCRUM’S

oS

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry Borey

was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni S

Whitman’s
and Martha Washington Candies

$3.00 =

Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

=
Your Mail Order Will

Receive Our Best Attention

of Washington and Lee

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

Protessional Directory

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
e

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building

Huntington, W. Va.

 

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House

Hackensack, N. J.
ab

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910
Tucker and Mason
Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Ruff & Ready
Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921
Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building
Fast Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

 

Copyright 1938, LicGett & Myers Tosacco Co.

