teAlumni Magazine

of Washington and Lee University

ah Trib yi i

a

oe 5
ee

 

MW olunie VIII [Number +

March, i933 $2.50.a year

LIBRARY OF
W ASTENGTON & LEE UMIVERSIT *

 

¥ . —¥
bade
PECL

; Ri ea
“ ¥ « 5 d
é - ae i Pe eek
SRE SCA LC VE
“ ea) Age ey
: . « uy oe
oS ee ON
ty Va tag >
.

pt PRs or
bg pt Me Pe oe :
a" gees FE ke rr h
CV pce PE Pt, er * , tr G8
P 5% ; sare ’ a ay , re i? ; ¥ ee te
“i s* ree eo Me = Sao te. _- - Pry ’ BAP Sik wre rhs de
4 Ate 2 ny Bo kg 5 2% iy , ~
ee fe FEW EP, ye AN AS
ie Ae ae boo See Mote see
ae ‘o . » Ag” ,
£ ‘
i ts <4 FB

sy i
A Cac trae
ate

ete, ot ile re
tty May oO ee
heer ade +g
§. hfe Pr a? x
‘ > ital
ss (Suber, ae
~

if ug ee)
a 7 Soe Vv

rh

‘

> hae
ay x4 oe
alert Se ae

sae:

Ww

¥
“*

"
4

Ve
oie

74 .
SP Aes

vat

Bah :
eee
cas

ote?
oak
Mate
a : eS re ares.
j ‘ wy a Poy : rang vy. f Y a ey Ped sneaes red
eva: sf oe on f i. / i, ns ‘ . a ede as otk
Mot ot ay AN doa Pies PMA Pes Aig
y pe ' : ’ 7 : orb At Seopa pS
' rt oan c ¥ . f a 4 f A AD ee eat whi

¥

Pa

At
ae

+4.) hy 4

pe

bes)

7, ' i ‘ aay Ls sare ‘+ 2 ¥ '
Sau <a eo ee vt OY 4 one ee ; c ae
‘ saa aes, ik ets ¥ 4 $ 7 7 i ’ vs re re 2 Rie Mi
os 3; ' of “4 en Poe near me : Weistet ren m eae i oe Sues oF ma ,
da iad trite es NaN RAV Oe aL, r Cty ae ; Y " a Orpen a Nt ies ayia
\ SAN rt Comet 3 et - ee 5 shee ; oa ry aa ts 7 x S +6 TES PR > : ret ¥
Pe ae Stare aN EN HN a Ri cetack er eee Bret apse
‘ ee my y bat
ve

renee

i=
a

a &
“
1

se

&

Fo

x
x
‘ ys

7 ens
aX AV ‘ o i AD 4
¥ ; Ro aaigath ~~ aap « 4 » a3
csp wea oc Pere
7h ushia ss Bay OP yy
oY ; ti Sis A é at oe Sete
oe eH De eswre Le Fee wey
1 Res cast
. * % ? Ey ay

s 7
Pepe te bran

ms

~
ay

x,
axe
sys
ee

~
eo,

oe ou 5 be
at wer
a

4 >
wot q
yay tre
Tie Na)
war

a Cosy
nee
e

ay eee 7 ony
VARA 4a NR Oy POLE,

Met ocr m an aaa wa
rat

tts yt ’
} “< Tey * -

te +> Oot @) e i
Net Paes st “y
spe ; oe

ey
ree

“2.

ry
*af,

. ve

er a
vos".
ee

las

OEE We eat 7 f a
ny, iter ots ‘ : Fyne Pane t . i
: if,» ot o rs oa et UA ; N >>, were
® aa ‘ OFA a ee ‘ > ae ae J. ate > BR) Page .
‘-) yh at ny Pe ay Be ASS Rae eh . > OSs ae?
+ XG WF A) ra See 7 +e rie he ie sh
RSNA RRS Sy Sra Shc Nea porn Bay a
ay EP a Vs Ae PERS
Boek? a
ue ’

, okey
aN Pn
OEE Bp ane
Sy. We . : Pere otis) k hie k
hea istee RPV OA AO ee an %y 3s aM : : (
O54 RIES x ; we : a SAY roy ‘ { c “ * NS * . , ty . \ "

> ‘ 3 ee ri Ic (~ he me : Aas > sh Pee $ . : J
eens RR MN tN Gro. Peal Seana leek reps ah A: ie SOR RUMI R OAD ined do} iere RG te Op rates i PACED

SUN era re Tt DAS ene iy AR ? PON a Sat canis , M , hy ; ox oy : pe,
POA PPS PSIE Je St ory, A ‘ ~ Sah se FOTO ASTA IS 2 D . es Say Se i
TOBA lege ter eae xa tT, oA : : ; aA : ‘Ay SS

IPOD SaaS ER CO a yt AN Pach ss SAP Tee OA Rt OREN CDR EOE Ion , Dress
ee . ) 3 f iy ee a aunt LM > iy . ; SES ‘

%
AAT u >
eG OT otiNy .

7) ay “hee
a) \ took : is e

PSU SOUND

ZINN

A

sa

Sy

ro

a
BY)

&
o>

at
Ps
nae

3
’
, ,
a)
v2
Nyse
mt)

Nw OK < 4) ‘
A SOREL RHR
Py ty
Abe %
of en
+

’
4

*

bem

re

Sat iate

Zeer J

. S wears %
LeRoy Nery ee >

‘ =? ALY +s
PANY 3 arte
HPs ays t\ AS

a
ae

, \

+
43x ; an ,
wa Ar ¥ HN , . vs
os . e oh > sy My » t \
Sane tot sotthe % ty) eae @ - + bed
~~ th i “ Va ie . ,
| 4 x Fay
+3 /
Ne
> »
hh

foe
~~

~~ a
<.

Crt

 

N: a ,

apis os RUS eRe ISD MS RR Torey EAR ae
| UR CESARE * AS PRUE NAAN EUR MC RRR aM NHR ge
i : Ne Stet Dat wus ee DEYN SARA d  PRERTS RE OO Le aA Tione REI Ste RaE Srna eaert es
os bs Se Ae i s Pay ae SERS Ls SUNS HS " HN 7 Rai sag Tee ORS kf i

G2 ms < : j Se c : bys eA) : An nt y rE > Ng : , man » sy ‘ g > . , 7 7 : . 4

Ney x at K i NOH UES & AK X ve ahs ay. Oe } 8 es o oer y ‘ STR IIN x , in . a x x OP AN
ens A the PUNE NOUN Bt AOR RRND BA Se ie eS UDA
ay pt ¥ : \ t bt * re PY a? ‘ fe oN

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Walter McDonald, Harry K. Young, Secretary Stuart Moore, Treasurer

ALUMNI BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Randolph Cabell, ’20 Thomas McP. Glasgow, °16 J. Ran Tucker, ’02
Dozier A. DeVane, ’08 Edward W. Lee, °13
MARCH 1933
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924

President

Walter A. McDonald, ’10
Stuart Moore, °15

No. 4

VOL. VIII

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS
M. Memphis, Tenn.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities.
New York—Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, La.—E. E. Dufour, 5240 Prytania Street.
Norfolk, Va.—W alter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building.
Pittsburgh, Pa.—C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Philadelphia, Pa—E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Pocohontas Clu», Bluefield, W. Va.—A. L. Tyree, Bluefield,
West Virginia.

Barker, Jr.,

Appalachian Assocation, Tenn.-Va.—]J.
Security Investment Company.

Atlanta, Ga.—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building.
Birmingham, Ala——Mark Hanna, First National Bank Bldg.
Charleston, W.Va.—W.W. Donnally, Kanawha Valley Bank
Charlotte, N. C.—Phil Howerton, 1100 Dilworthe Rd., W.
Dallas, Texas—A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.
Detroit, Mich—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke, Davis Co.
Fort Worth, Texas—E. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building.
Huntington, W. Va.—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank.
Jacksonville, Fla—R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue.

Lynchburg, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch Building.

Roanoke, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
Richmond, Va.—Ran Tucker, State-Planters Bank Bldg.
San Antonio, Texas—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash

and Door Company.

Louisville, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Bldg. Washington, D. C.—Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Bldg.

 

CONTENTS

 

PAGE
‘Tie eee Br ORO... ae... 0 3
‘‘Were I An Artist.”—Robert E. Lee............ +
Alumni Association Launches Campaign...... 5
Annual of 1911 Law Class.............. ae sca ee
Fitzgerald Flournoy Has Poems Published... 7
Richmond Alumni Meet.........0.0..46............00506 8
Commencement Speaker................0......c::::000 Pe
Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Thirteen... ............ 8
Judge McDermott Honored..............0..000.0.... 8
Hoot Mon! Spell It Mac, Not Mc................ 9
A Book by Holmes Rolston, ’20.................... 10
LDR: ROMO Ba AAMMUOT oi gis Ss) os skschovecsccscieiy 10
New Deal in Football for Generals................ 11
Dean is Bradner Enthusiast... 12
Leigh Hanes is Visiting Lecturer... 12
Judge Nathan L. Bachman, ’97.................... 12
Poems of Margaret Junkin Preston............ 12

PAGE
Spring Sports Have Full Schedules.............. 13
Alumnus Elected Editor.............0.0000.000...008. 14
Alumnus Candidate for Governor. .............. 14
Interest Shown in Intramural Athletics...... 15
Twenty-One Tapped by O. D. K................. 16
W.. & 1. Songs Papeete... Gaitaas.:....5. 16
Winter Sports Season Successful.................. 17
A Letter From Benton S. Rude, ’90............ 18
Huntington Alumni Hold Meeting................ 19
Obituary :
Dr. Gammel <1, Halley; "Yo.:....::5...6-42 22
Judge Jos. M. Turbyfill, 713................... 22
Roy G. Mitchell, ’96................ 22
Dr. Charles H. Davidson, *92 22
frank M. Martin, ’05... 2
oe en REO PE Acta cy .-.-<coctcsesstck se
Viscount Hidei Fukuoka, ’90.................... 23

 

 

 

Mien

eed ie oie,

E ASL ee oe aN

I

I

MM AeA. N

The President’s Page

(Paragraphs from an Address Delivered to the Students, March 21, 1933)

F [I WERE permitted to say only one thing, I

should express my pride and my gratitude for

the admirable morale of the student body dur-
ing the present session.

We are entering the third year of the depression.
It has affected the institution in numerous ways which
we do not attempt to conceal. Enrollment is down
from its peak by 9.1% and our general income has de-
clined between 10 and 15%. While instruction has
not suffered, our students know that the University has
been compelled to seek economies.

Even more vividly has this depression influenced
the destinies of the students themselves. Many of our
finest boys have had to leave; others on the campus
today are battling circumstances that might daunt the
most gallant spirit. Our seniors face the world with
more misgivings as to their personal alignments than
any similar graduates have done for a long time.

But in the midst of all, the students have exhibited
no despair, no cynicism, no undue dissipation—the
coward’s retreat into a world of miserable make-believe
which turns even more drab the world of actuality when
he comes back. There has been no radicalism, no such
restlessness as has occurred on other campuses when
boys under some unrecognized pressure protest against
they know not what.

Our students have manifested seriousness of pur-
pose, sympathy and cooperation toward the University
itself, patience and courage in the face of difficulties.
They have made a new chapter in the ancient histories
of glory which this institution claims.

It is another sign that Washington and Lee stu-
dents of today are in a most authentic sense selected
men. Of course the processes of admission seek to pre-
determine this fact. There has been no year when our
enrollment would not have been full if we had been
willing to accept certain boys who had the necessary
mental experience but who did not fulfill our own stand-
ards of character. But the conduct of our boys has es-
tablished beyond all doubt the value of selection and the
fact that they are the products of discriminating choice.

I think this fact means also that our boys realize
that they are beneficiaries of great trust. Men and wo-
men who never saw the present student body have gone
the long ways of toil to earn money and then have made
deposits on this campus for the benefit of youth.

The evidences of this confidence are all about you.
When you play or dance in the gymnasium you are en-

[ 3

joying the gift of a New York lady.
When you go into the library you
enter in the physical evidence of the
generosity of a Scotchman. When
you go into the commerce building
you walk in portals provided by a
generous husband and wife in a re-
mote city. Some such fact is true
of almost every building on the
campus.

Moreover many of you hold
scholarships based on specific gifts
made by those who had no acquaintance with you but
who are willing to stake their capital against your cred-
itable performance.

With regard to the fees themselves, it ought to be
emphasized that no student pays anything like the total
cost of his education. If we make no allowance for
rentals on nearly two million dollars worth of prop-
erty, and if we remember that last year outside revenue
was greatly reduced, it is impressive to recall that for
the fiscal year which has just closed a student who paid
all fees actually paid only eighteen cents out of every
thirty-two cents spent here in his education.

 

Who paid the other? If a student remains here
for four years, George Washington has given about
$15 on the actual expenses of that individual’s train-
ing; Cyrus McCormick, whose statue stands on our
campus, and other members of his family, have con-
tributed about $73 to this same purpose; George Pea-
body, the Massachusetts philanthropist has added a
similar amount; and hosts of others, some alumni and
some men who had no connection with the University,
have made up the difference.

You will not think that I am trying to suggest
that you should have a bill sent you for this margin.
No, while I hope that if any of you come into the op-
portunity you will join yourself with these benefactors
in helping other boys, I recite these figures merely to
show that you are the heirs to large benevolence, which
implies at once high confidence and high challenge.

It is my unspeakable pleasure to report that our
boys justify that confidence and meet worthily that
challenge.

ee [ere ee

E A. bias, ee

I

Mi eee: ie Oe OI

“Were | An Artist.”—Robert E. Lee

 

. -
— >

7

es
= om yf ae
_ or —

~~: Gi

=

_

ERE I an artist like you I would draw a true
picture of ‘Traveller—representing his fine
proportions, muscular figure, deep chest and_ short
back, strong haunches, flat legs, small head, broad fore-
head, delicate ears, quick eye, small feet, and black mane
and tail. Such a picture would inspire a poet, whose
genius could then depict his worth and describe his en-
durance of toil, hunger, thirst, heat, cold, and the
dangers and suffering through which he has passed. He
could dilate upon his sagacity and affection, and his in-
variable response to every wish of his rider. He might
even imagine his thoughts, through the long night
marches and days of battle through which he has passed.
But I am no artist; I can only say he is a Confederate
gray. I purchased him in the mountains of Virginia in
the autumn of 1861, and he has been my patient follower
ever since—to Georgia, the Carolinas, and back to
Virginia. He carried me through the Seven Days
battle around Richmond, the Manassas,
Sharpsburg, Fredericksburg, the last day at Chancel-
lorsville, to Pennsylvania, at Gettysburg, and back to
the Rappahannock. From the commencement of the

second at

 

4 J

=

 

campaign in 1864 at Orange, till its close around Peters-
burg, the saddle was scarcely off his back, as he passed
through the fire of the Wilderness, Spottsylvania, Cold
Harbor, and across the James River. He was almost
in daily requisition in the winter of 1864-65 on the
long line of defenses from Chicahominy, north of Rich-
mond, to Hatcher’s Run, south of the Appomattox. In
the campaign of 1865, he bore me from Petersburg to
the final days at Appomattox Court House. You must
know the comfort he is to me in my retirement. He is
well supplied with equipment. ‘Two sets have been sent
to him from England, one from the ladies of Baltimore,
and one was made for him in Richmond; but I think his
favorite is the American saddle from St. Louis. Of
all his companions in toil, ‘Richmond,’ ‘Brown Roan,’
‘Ajax,’ and quiet ‘Lucy Long,’ he is the only one that
retains his vigour. The first two expired under their
onerous burden, and the last two failed. You can, |

am sure, from what | have said, paint his portrait.
—Extract from General Lee's letter to an artist
who contemplated a painting of General Lee's

war horse Traveller.

 

E Ae ee SR oe

J

NM Ab ae: A 2. Aw

Alumni Association Launches Campaign

N A LETTER dated November 15, 1932, to Walter
McDonald, President of the Alumni, Inc., Presi-
dent Francis P. Gaines laid before the Alumni the
effect of the economic depression upon the work of
their Alma Mater. Briefly, the facts are as follows:

The University has suffered, along with other in-
stitutions, a loss of enrollment, the present registra-
tion being about 90 below that of the peak years;

The yield from capital funds, as was inevitable,
has showed a sharp decline;

itvery possible saving, short of invading the es-
sential program of the University, has been made. ‘The
budget, which was small at best, has been lowered by
about 15% ;

In spite of these steps the University faces a deficit
for the current year.

Recognizing that this is not a time for general
appeal, the President and the Board of Trustees have
hoped that a plan might be devised by the alumni which
would entail no burden upon any individual but would
represent a systematic and sustained assistance.

For several years the University has borne the ex-
penses of the alumni office.

This letter was laid before the Board of Trustees
of the Alumni, Inc., at a special meeting held Novem-
ber 19, 1932.

After deliberation, a committee was appointed, with
Mr. Stuart Moore as chairman, to formulate a plan by
which the alumni might materially assist the University
to meet the conditions set forth in Dr. Gaines’ letter.

After making a serious study of conditions sur-
rounding the University and its alumni activities as
well as the successful methods in force by alumni or-
ganizations during the past few years at institutions
. similar in size and rank to Washington and Lee, the
committee made the following suggestions :

The alumni owe to themselves and to their Univers-
ity the duty to convert the present loosely formed asso-
ciation into a forceful organization, embracing the wide-
spread interest of its seven thousand living alumni. The
association must first attain a condition of self-support
and then offer some positive benefit to the University.

Similar institutions have definitely abandoned high-
powered, intensive campaigns for large financial con-
tributions from a small number of alumni, substitu-
ting methods designed to secure the interest and sup-
port of a large number of alumni who are called upon
tor only such sums as they can easily afford.

Notwithstanding the lack of class organizations,

[5]

the committee felt that the interest of alumni can best
be aroused and maintained through one or more class
agents appointed for each class, making the contacts
with his fellow classmen.

The fund to be derived from this plan is to be em-
ployed, first, for the support and maintenance of an
active alumni organization, and the remainder of the
fund is to be expended by the alumni association for
such projects as it may deem best suited to the needs
of the University. It is not proposed to constitute a
capital fund, but to rely upon a substantial number of
relatively small contributions, preferably on an annual
basis, carrying with them a renewed concern for the
general welfare of the University and the establish-
ment of closer contacts between the University and the
individual alumnus.

It is desirable that this be accomplished without
undue delay.

To place this plan before our large body of widely-
scattered alumni will require not less than $2500 dur-
ing the present year. It was suggested that an immedi-
ate appeal be made for contributions of $25 each from
one hundred interested alumni, to inaugurate this plan.

The suggestion of the committee regarding the
fund of $2500 necessary to place the matter before the
alumni, has been carried out by Mr. McDonald from his
offices in Cincinnati, and the committee of 100 has
made its contribution to underwrite the campaign, so
that every dollar contributed by an alumnus will go un-
diminished into the Alumni Fund.

The following plan of further action, which has
been used successfully by the leading colleges of the
country, has been decided upon:

The appointment of class agents who will bring
before their fellow classmen the conditions and the
suggested response, making an appeal for only such
contributions as will entail no hardships upon the donors
even in these lean years. The expense of the neces-
sary correspondence will, of course, be provided from
the promotion fund already in hand.

A statement from President McDonald follows:

“Not only the committee of 100, specially chosen
among the alumni to sponsor this plan by contributing
a preliminary fund to underwrite the expense of the
general campaign, but others have raised the money
necessary to authorize the Alumni Board to conduct,
for the first time in the history of the University, an
alumni-wide campaign.

“The object is to collect, by the aggregate of many

ee A tors ee

small contributions, at least $20,000. No large amount
is asked of any alumnus, however willing, however
generous and able he is to give. This amount of money
is based upon the average collected by other leading
colleges, using this plan as part of their standardized
procedure for regimenting the loyalty and interest of
their alumni. It is based upon an average contribution
of $5 an alumnus, or $25 a contributor.

“The Alumni Board feels that there is in this effort
an ideal larger than our need of money, more real than
the amount raised itself can measure. The Alumni of
Washington and Lee are not organized. The spirit of
the alumni body is inactive because neglected and un-
touched. This campaign will re-awaken it along the
most logical and acceptable lines of pride and sentiment,
which means by way of organizing and enlivening the
personal, tangible associations of classes and classmates.
This revival and its expression by classes will mean
more to the University than the amount of money to be
raised can, in itself alone, express.

“The influence of the University, not in academic
terms, but in the warmth and vigor of its humanizing
our daily lives and all our associations, is nourished by
its alumni, it is realized and valued but it is a shy, in-
articulate thing. It is the one, among the stronger
forces that have made us, that is least often called up
for recognition and gratitude. This campaign will
touch that feeling we have that is very deep, very re-
mote, but very real and alive.

‘‘Not many of us as students, could have given $25
to the University as a free-will gift. Not many of
us, in those days, could have had our hearts touched
by sentiment that gradually, with the years, settles
upon us, takes possession of us, vaguely yet undeniably
and causes us, looking back, to feel that in memory of
those days, the present has a claim upon us and in rec-
ognizing this claim, we are indulging ourselves in a
selfish but very worthy impulse, to give a little, with
others, so that this mysterious affection we have, can
go on and on, never ending in its influence on us and
others.”

 

Annual of i911 Law Class

Joun F. Brown, Secretary of the Law Class of
11, is the editor of the Class Annual which was issued
in February. Each year the Class of ‘11, adds a
Judgeship to its roll of honor, and this time it is fitting
that the secretary and editor should receive this dis-
tinction. John Brown is now Judge of the Twentieth
Judicial Circuit for the State of West Virginia.

The little pamphlet is well got up, contains pictures
of five members of the class and letters from twenty.

[ 6 ]

I

    
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   

Mi Al ie > AT ON

a

Another Judge added to the roll is Reginald J. B.
Page, Judge of the Civil Court of the City of Nor-
folk, Va.

The Annual is prefaced by a letter from Prof,
Raymon T. Johnson, of the law faculty, which is of
such general interest to all law alumni, that we are
quoting it in full: ‘

Lexington, Va., Jan. 5, 193 |
To the Law Class of 1911: 1

The members of the Law School faculty wish te
renew their greetings to the Class of 1911. It is with
a feeling of some satisfaction that we are able to an-
nounce that the enrollment of the Law School is about
fifteen in excess of last year. The entering class we
one of the largest in recent years. It is confidently
expected that next year will witness a still further in-
crease. Almost one-half of our students have come
to us from the academic departments of other schools
and twenty-two states and one foreign country are
represented.

Under the leadership of Professor Light the in-
terior of Tucker Hall has been greatly improved. Pie
tures of many of the graduating classes have beer
placed on the walls in the hallway. A neatly panelec
judge’s bench has been placed in one of the class roo
and another is soon to be placed in the other clas:
room. Some of the professors’ offices have been mucl
improved. It is hoped that the basement of Tucke
Hall can be made into Club Rooms for the students. —

An effort to collect biographical data of all t
graduates of the Law School is now under way an
we hope that an accurate file can be made and kep
up to date. Little change has been made in the cur
riculum. It might be of some interest to vou to knovy
that this school requires about the largest number ¢
hours for graduation of any member of the Associa
tion of American Law Schools. Despite the heavy de
mands upon our students several classes have foun
time to engage in some research work with gratifyi
results. We should like to see some type of Law Schoo
publication undertaken.

We feel that the solidarity of your class organizz
tion reflects credit upon yourselves and upon the La\
School. When you meet here in 1936 we trust yo
will be able to observe still greater improvements.

Sincerely yours,

Raymon T. JOHNSON

 

James E. Barn, ’27, is teaching in the Teache
Training School, Richland, Michigan. He is marrie
and has two children.

AO ae ee a

Mi Ar as  &. Bae mw 6 Ue

 

Fitzgerald Flournoy Has Poems Published

IX POETRY magazines published in various parts

of the country have carried or agreed to carry

since last September, ten poems by Fitzgerald

Flournoy, ’21, associate professor of English at Wash-

ington and Lee, who is now on leave of absence, work-

ing for his Ph.D. degree at Yale University. He ex-

pects to finish his thesis before next fall and to return
to Washington and Lee then.

Mr. Flournoy received both his A.B. and M.A. de-

grees from Washington and Lee, and following the re-

 

ceipt of the latter in 1921, he went to Oxford Univer-
sity in England on a Rhodes scholarship. He was
awarded the English M.A. at the institution.

Three of Mr. Flournoy’s poems have been taken by
the Kaleidograph, Dallas, Texas, and two by The Poet;
a Magazine of verse, published by the University of
Missouri Press. Verse Craft, Atlanta, Georgia; In-
Spiration, St. Louis, Missouri; The Challenge, Nash-
ville, Tennessee; and the Sidney Lanier Anthology for
1933, Atlanta, have each accepted one. The American
Book of Verse, published in St. Louis, has also asked
Mr. Flournoy for a contribution to its 1933 volume.

Only two of the above mentioned magazines have
as yet come off the press with Mr. Flournoy’s poems.
The names of the magazines and the poems follow:

Lea

Inspiration, Winter Number 1932-33:

ANTICIPATION
Hills bare and brown, and dead leaves crushed and
broken,
Sky of light azure, sun of clear, cool gold;
And in my heart again the heavenly token,
The surge of life and the delight untold!
Here runs a stream, how silvery, cool, enchanted;
Here stands a clean, grey tree, how lithe and fair;
Gold beams across my sluggish heart have slanted
And left a riot and a singing there.
Ho, the soft mountains! lyrical they lie,
Seen through this harem-curtain of soft air;
[ would run to them over hill tops high,
Spurning the earth, drinking the wind, aflare
With that ineffable, without a name,
That comes before the daffodils are aflame.

Kaleidograph, December, 1932:

MAN’S OWN CREATION

Pitiless, deep-eyed woman,
Painted in pearl and dawn,
Astarte, all too human,

By whom life’s tides are drawn;
Young and serene, uncaring

That winds are thick with song,
And life with life is sharing

The love for which all long;

Softness on which are broken
The spirits of the strong;
Smile that bestows no token,
Old upon lips so young ;
Mystery clothed in beauty

By passion’s alchemy ;
Indifference dressed as duty,
And prose as poetry;

Theme of much song and longing,
Slough, where our strongest years,
When the god-like dreams are thronging,
Sink, and dissolve in tears;

Red goal of aspiration

That wades like frosted breath,

By man’s imagination

Stronger than life or death.

.;. A OD a ae aN

Richmond Alumni Meet

RicHMOND alumni, on the evening of February
22nd, enjoyed one of those rare treats which come all
too seldom to graduate groups. It was our happy privi-
lege to present as guest speakers, Dr. H. D. Campbell
and Forrest Fletcher, both of whom brought refreshing
news from Lexington.

Dr. Campbell spoke briefly of the life of Dr. Jun-
kin, who occupied the president’s chair at Washington
and Lee about the middle of the last century. Few
present had ever heard much of Dr. Junkin and it was
indeed an interesting revelation which Dr. Campbell
made concerning this unusual man. Forrest Fletcher
gave a complete resume of the athletic activities of the
Generals, the ‘Fledgling’ Generals and the “Intramu-
ral” Generals, pointing out particularly the development
of the latter department of athletics. One striking point
emphasized by the Coach was that during the last school
year a total of 563 individuals out of the total enroll-
ment of approximately 800 participated in intramural
athletic activity.

Local alumni turned out en masse to greet the
speakers. It is impossible to list here all who were
present, but seated prominently were: Randolph Tuck-
er, James H. Price, C. H. Morrissette, Col. LeRoy
Hodges, Charlie Moss, Otto Stumpf, Joe Birnie, Dr.
J. Morrison Hutchinson, Bill Tarrant, Dr. Jimmie Wil-
liams, Harry O. Stone, Clyde Allen, Carleton Jewett,
George Riggs, Dr. R. L. Simpson, Louis Powell, H. I.
Bostwick, Dr. A. A. Hauser, George Haw, Russ Jor-
dan, Ralph Grant and A. Mason Harris.

The next regular meeting will be held in May, at
which time officers for the ensuing year will be elected.

 

Commencement Speaker

Sir JostAn STAMP, eminent British economist and
financial authority, will deliver the commencement ad-
dress at Washington and Lee University, ‘Tuesday,
June 6th. The baccalaureate sermon, June 4th, will be
preached by Bishop U. V. W. Darlington, of Hunt-
ington, W. Va.

Both speakers will come from abroad to take part
in the commencement exercises. Sir Josiah, now in
London, cabled his acceptance of President Gaines’ in-
vitation while Bishop Darlington accepted the Wash-
ington and Lee date three days before he sailed for
Europe last week.

The British financier will be paying his second
visit to the Lexington institution. He was here on
Washington’s birthday last year for the bi-centennial
celebration of the school. Bishop Darlington repre-
sents Southern Methodists, it being a Washington and

I

[8]

 
 
  
  
      
  
  
 
  
  
      
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

Me A ee Ae. Ea

3

Lee custom to rotate the baccalaureate sermon assign
ments among the Protestant denominations.

In the field of economics there is no British name
better known than that of Sir Josiah Stamp. For the
past twenty years he has been an outstanding figure
in international problems relative to his field, and for
the last ten years has been a director of the Bank of
England. The British government made him repre
sentative on the Dawes reparation commission in 1924
Several years later he served in the capacity of British
representative on Owen D. Young’s debt committee.

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Thirtee

Twetve Washington and Lee students and one
alumnus were initiated into the Washington and
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, March 18th. |

The honor is the highest scholastic honor that car
come to a student. Six of the initiates are candidate;
for degrees in the academic school, three in the schoe
of commerce, two in the school of science, and one it
the law school. |

The alumnus honored was Benjamin C. Flournoy
class of ’97, member of the firm of Flournoy and Flour.
noy, architects of Washington, D. C., who designe
the Doremus Gymnasium and Carnegie library here.

The students initiated were: J. A. Womeldorf ¢
Rockbridge; J. F. Bear, Montgomery, Ala.; R.
Caldwell, Bentleyville, Pa; E. S. Curtis, Kingston, Ps
J. Fleming Jones, Dublin, Ga.; C. B. Kaplan, Louis
ville, Ky.; C. W. Kaufman, Martinsburg, W. Va.3@
A. LaVarre, Washington, D. C.; E. Ff. Leatham, Mem
phis, Tenn.; M. E. Porter, Miami, Fla.; J. IF. Watling
ton, Reidsville, N. C.; E. J. Wilson, Rome, Ga. 7

The Phi Beta Kappa address was delivered by D1
Theodore H. Jack, newly-elected president of Randolph
Macon Woman’s College, Lynchburg. Dr. Jack
brought to Lexington by Maj. Powell Glass, ‘06, é
sociate publisher of the Lynchburg News and Advane

 

 

Judge McDermott Honored

Jupcr Cuaries J. McDermort, member of th
Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee, was awé
ed an Alumni Medal at the Columbia University Alun
ni Day celebration on February 13th. The medal be
the following citation:

CHARLES JAMES McDERMOTT
89 I.., Brooklyn. Carrying his fine Co-
lumbia enthusiasm into intercollegiate cir-
cles and contributing a large measure of
the success now enjoyed by the Alumni
Association of the Law School which he
served conspicuously as president.

T H E Ae GL MON

I

MieAoews A 24. 2. &

Hoot Mon! Spell It Mac, Not Mc

OS as ONE gentleman who sure enough is entitled
Fi to wear kilties, known around Oklahoma chiefly
through Governor Murray’s kiltie band, is John A.
MacDonald, hoot mon, of the MacDonald Sleat clan
of Scotland, you bonnie bet.
MacDonald, a power in the present senate, is a
namesake of Sir John

at bar. ‘he MacDonald brothers were associated with
Kk. L. Williams, now federal judge but then leader of
a well organized political faction in southeastern Ok-
lahoma.
A boy was caught and charged with swiping pen-
MacDonald insists “I could
have cleared him if he

nies from a slot machine.

 

A. MacDonald, first
premier of Canada. If
you want to become his
arch enemy, political or
otherwise, just leave
out the “a’ in Mac.
That’s the Scot of it all.

 

A hardy son of
West Virginia’s moun-
tains, MacDonald has

 

behind him 15 years of
military service, is one

of the west’s highest >

Wl
y RP,
Oy

ranking officers and,

his friends swear, is set CHAIR MAN OF
eo or SENATE

to go a long way in’ |APPROPRIA~g

Oklahoma politics be-
fore taking time out.

On one of the
highest peaks in the
West Virginia rough-
lands, the Durant sena-
tor was born, October
20, 1892, at Cross. His
father and mother both
had from

 

  
   

COMM Ir-TEE
KEEPS STATES
MONEY BAGS
TIED TIGHT — ae
WO ROIOIKIORKY

 

  

come over WY

     
     
   
   

hadn’t had the 400 pen-
nies in his pockets when
they got him.” Sen-
tence was two years.

The war came along
and gave him the mili-
tary urge, which was to
color his whole life.

He was a captain of
calvary in the regular
army from 1917 to
February 15, 1919, sta-
tioned on the border at
Douglas, Arizona. He
is a graduate of the
small arms firing school
and the war college in-
telligence section of the
regular army.

He came back from
the war to serve as Du-
‘rant city attorney in
1921, ’22, and ’23. The
“bug” hit him in 1928,
and he was elected to
the senate; he was re-

 

 

 

Scotland.

He attended school,
high school and college at Keyser, W. Va., graduating
from the Potomac State college there in 1909, after
taking on all comers in baseball, football, and the cage
game.

Next, he went to Washington and Lee University,
Starring in basketball. A gold medal still flips from
his watch chain; it attests he won first prize in oratory
given by the Washington and Lee Literary Society, now
132 years old.

The law degree arrived in 1913. MacDonald’s
brother, D. S. MacDonald, was in Durant, so young
John made the transcontinental leap and took up
practice of law.

Pennies gave him

 

and lost for him—his first case

[9 |

elected and now is in

his second term.
Three children all bear good, old names of the
They are Norman, 10 years old:
Malcolm, 8 years old and John A., Jr., 4 years old.
Senator and Mrs. MacDonald will talk on kiltieism any
time if you'll call at the family fireside, 2500 North
All are here for the session.

MacDonald clan.

Robinson avenue.

Membership cards from Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity and the Masons, Knights Templars, Shrine and
Odd Fellows he carries. He is also a member of P.
A. D. legal fraternity.

He has 15 years’ service to his credit in the army.
Since the war, however, his active service has been con-
fined to the Walton K. K. K. uprising in Tulsa in 1923,
and the Red River bridge war of last year.

.. eae A. Bae. Be os

MacDonald hunts and likes to fish and is always
on the job when relief movements bob up in Durant.
But, he breaks down to admit, “I like to practice law
better than anything.”

His hobby is studying military campaigns. He is
accepted as an authority on military maneuvers of
Stonewall Jackson, Robert E. Lee and Napoleon. For
two solid years he studied Jackson’s campaigns, using
authentic maps.

‘Lee was the greatest strategist the world has ever
seen,” he believes. “Jackson was the greatest master
of flank movements.” And Napoleon—well, John Mac-
Donald of the Scotland MacDonalds can tell you any-
thing you want to know about the military, from Na-
poleon on down. Ask him.—Keprint from the Okla-
homa City Times, January 27, 1933.

 

A Book by Holmes Rolston, '20

A ConsERVATIVE Looks TO BARTH AND BRUNNER
By Hotmes Rotston, Tu.D.

(Cokesbury Press, Nashville, Tenn., 1933. Pp. 220. $1.50)

(A Review by Rev. J. J. Murray, D. D.,
Pastor of Lexington Presbyterian Church)

Books OF consequence by our Southern Presby-
terian ministers are all too few, and when one is pub-
lished it is a noteworthy event. Dr. Rolston has given
us a book of real value, dealing with a subject of great
importance and handling it in a thorough and sympa-
thetic way. The book might well be called, “A South
ern Presbyterian’s View of Barthianism,’ and just at
this time when this movement in theology is arousing
so much interest such a study of it is most welcome. |
have had the pleasure of reading it in manuscript before
publication and can commend it with enthusiasm even
though I do not agree with all the author's commenda-
tions of Barthianism. Barthianism is a movement of the
first magnitude. No other movement in theology today is
arousing so much attention ; no other movement is at the
same time so enthusiastically received and so strenu-
ously opposed. And just because it is so significant,
no thoughtful man can afford not to try to understand
it. I can go further and say that no man in our church
can afford to miss Dr. Rolston’s book. None of the
difficulties, of which there are plenty in Barthianism,
has been dodged.

Barthianism is a philosophy to be reckoned with.
It behooves us to become acquainted with it, and it will
be of great help to have the scholarly and sympathetic
interpretation of the movement which Dr. Rolston
provides.

[ 10 }

Mi Abe A: 2 I UNS

ee

Dr. Robert H. Tucker Honored

Dr. Ronert H. Tucker, dean of Washington and
I.ee University, received one of the highest honors in-
Virginia educational fields when he was elected presi-
dent of the Association of Virginia Colleges, held at
Richmond, February 10th and 11th.

Dean ‘Tucker has been a member of the association.
for many years and
has been outstand-_
ing in all of its
functions. In re-
ceiving the honor
Dean Tucker said,
“T feel that this as-
sociation has unus-
ual possibilities for
co-ordinating — the
work of the various”
colleges and univer-
sities of the state
and for the consid-
eration of college
problems of gen-
eral interest and
importance.”

The association
is composed of rep=|
resentatives of the
colleges and universities of the state, and its purpose
is to consider the problems which arise in the organ-
ization and administration of these institutions.

On February 24th and 25th, Dean Tucker attended
a conference on Local Finance and County Government
held at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville,
Tenn. Dean Tucker has had years of experience in
the field of government and finance and has been rec-
ognized throughout the South as one of the most out
standing authorities on these problems. |

During the meeting Dean Tucker was frequently
called upon to lead and give reports on such progress
of state and county government in Virginia as perf
tained to the subject of the conference. |

The meeting was sponsored by the American Po-
litical Science Association, in conjunction with the Uni-
versity of ‘Tennessee, and was held to promote better
acquaintanceship and closer relations between teachers
of political science and those engaged in the actual op-
eration of government, as well as to promote the de=
velopment of sound policies in connection with govern=

  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 

mental affairs.

 

SENATOR Byrp has named as his secretary, Lestef
D. Arnold, °18, of Winchester, Virginia.

a Le ee eS

I

Mi hAtGewA “2 ae: Me. oe

New Deal in Football for Generals

By J. FRANKLIN JONES

ASHINGTON AND LEE is at the beginning of a

new era in football. The regulations and cus-
toms which were a part of former coaches and their
systems have been cast aside. Students are slowly
becoming football conscious, which should forecast a
high spirit and keen interest in the games of next sea-
son. ‘lo Coach Tilson goes the credit for this depart-
ure from the conventional and for the initiation of the
“new deal” in Washington and Lee football.

Tuesday, February 28th, Tilson called for football
candidates, stating that any student was eligible. At
the first workout there was a squad of more than
fifty. Since that day, the number has been augmented
by fifteen or twenty. The coach was eager to have a
large number of men for spring training and he got
them with little effort.

The coaches hope to create a new interest in foot-
ball in the students other than the players. They realize
this to be a difficult task because in the past years, the
coaches have always divorced the team from the stu-
dent body by secret practice sessions and a small squad.
To alleviate this, a plan was formulated whereby there
would be five exhibition games during the spring, and
also students would be permitted to attend practices.

Concerning this “new deal’ in Washington and
Lee football, Coach Tilson said, “We are holding these
gaines with three purposes in mind. — First of all, we
want to promote more interest on the part of the stu-
dent body in the activities of their football team. It is
hoped that by these contests the students will give
better support to the squad.

“Secondly,” he continued, “these games will give
next year’s material valuable experience of the same
nature that is obtained in actual competition.

“And finally, by the showing that the boys make in
the contests we will be in a better position to judge the
abilities and values of the different players.”

In the first exhibition game, March 10th, Amos Bo-
len’s Kentucky Colonels defeated Bill Grove’s Virginia
Wahoos 13-7. Grove’s team, clad in blue jerseys, took
the lead early in the second quarter by scoring on a
pass from Sawyers to Henthorne. The whites came
back with a passing attack and placed the ball on the
Blue’s 8-yard line. Bailey tried the line and then Mc-
‘adden passed to Ellis over the goal-line for a touch-
down. They failed to convert and the half ended with
the Blues out in front 7-6.

The Whites trailed until the last quarter when a
break allowed them to score. Hiserman, playing back
to punt, was unable to get a kick off from his own
20-yard stripe, when the Blue line failed to hold. Car-
men, right tackle on Bolen’s team, blocked the play,
recovered the ball, and raced 19 yards for a touch-
down. Sam Mattox kicked the extra point. The game
ended 13-7 for the Colonels.

There is a special interest aroused in this spring
training as the students and coaching staff want to learn
the success of the changes in the system installed by
Coach Tilson. [Four essentials constitute the change
of play.

Two backs will operate from the strong side of
the line next season. Last year it was the policy of
Coach DeHart to have one back on the weak side and
one on the strong side of the forward wall. The sec-
ond change is that wing backs will face the opposition
rather than each other in the offensive formation.

Next, Tilson builds his line solid where the plan
last year called for a one-yard gap between the center
and the guard on the weak side of the line. The last
change makes allowances for running plays and passes
from punt formation. DeHart always kicked from this
formation.

The Generals have a wealth of both line and back-
field material for their next season. With the in-
terest shown thus far by the students and the “new
deal’ from the coaching staff, it is possible to predict
a spirited team with the utmost support from the stu-
dent body for 1933.

 

Dr. JAMES Lewis Howe, professor of chemistry
at Washington and Lee recently received a testimonial
letter from the Chemical Society (London). The oc-
casion was the fiftieth anniversary of the date Dr.
Howe became a fellow of the society. The letter writ-
ten by G. G. Henderson of London, president of the or-
ganization, brought to the Washington and Lee pro-
fessor the good wishes of the society and thanks for
his contributions to the body.

 

I. Lewis Twyman, A.B. 713, LL.B. ’16, Miami
attorney of the law firm of Twyman, Scott and Mc-
Carthy, was one of the three men appointed to defend
Giuseppe Zangara, attempted assassin of President
Franklin D. Roosevelt.

[ 11 ]

ee. ee My Ds Eee IN

Mi ALG! & 2 BioN oe

 

Dean is Bradner Enthusiast

Ir HAS BEEN known for some time that C. C.
Bradner, WW J]’s newscaster, has listeners in many
parts of the country, especially in the Michigan, In-
diana, Ohio, and Ontario territory, but until just re-
cently, it was not believed that his news broadcasts
reached those as far away as Lexington, Va.

Not so long ago, at a dinner of the Southern Inter-
Scholastic Press Association, Lee A White found him-
self seated by the venerable Dean Emeritus of Wash-
ington and Lee University, Dr. Henry Donald Camp-
bell. Dr. Campbell, at the moment, was not aware that
Mr. White was from Detroit.

In the course of the conversation, Dr. Campbell
mentioned that he gets his news from Detroit. Mr.
White expressed amazement that Dr. Campbell found
it necessary to go so far for his information of the
day’s events.

“Oh,” Dr. Campbell answered, “I don’t go so far,
after all—only to my radio. You see I tune in on
WWJ each evening at 6:39 for the news broadcast—
and it never fails to satisfy.”

And then, to Dr. Campbell’s delight, Mr. White
gave him a word picture of WW )]’s news broadcaster.
—The Detroit News.

 

Leigh Hanes is Visiting Lecturer

HoLiins CoLLecE has announced the appointment
of Leigh Hanes, well known poet and editor of The
Lyric, as visiting lecturer in English during the second
semester.

Mr. Hanes will offer a three-hour course on Eng-
lish poets of the nineteenth century to a class of almost
30 students. He also plans an active interest in the
course of verse writing.

Mr. Hanes, an attorney of Roanoke, Virginia, re-
ceived his bachelor of arts degree from Hampden-
Sydney College and took his law degree from Wash-
ington and Lee. The Lyric, as well as Mr. Hanes’
privately published works, has had a wide circulation.
The poetry magazine, one of the oldest in the United
States, is read in all sections of the country.

 

Judge Nathan L. Bachman, ’97

In SENATOR WARREN Barpour of New Jersey the
United States Senate has one of the best athletes in
the country. In fact, Senator Barbour was formerly
the national heavyweight boxing champion. Now
another athlete is on his way to the Senate, Governor
McAlister of Tennessee having appointed Nathan L.

i

Bachman of Chattanooga, as Senator Cordell Hull’s—

successor. Mr. Bachman, who is 54 years old, played
football both at Washington and Lee and the University
of Virginia in his college days. He was an end at
Washington and Lee and a center at Virginia.

He also attended Southwestern Presbyterian Uni-

versity for a time and played on its football team—those ~

were the days of what have since become known as

“tramp athletes,” it may be in order to explain, and—

football players frequently moved around from one
institution to another without losing their athletic eligi-
bility in the transfer.

Judge Bachman is a practicing lawyer in Chatta-
nooga and is a former member of the circuit court bench
and also of the Tennessee Supreme Court. He is, need-

less to say, a Democrat, like his predecessor, who re-_—
signed to become Secretary of State in the Roosevelt —

i

Cabinet.—Roanoke Times, March 1, 1933.

 

Poems of Margaret Junkin Preston

Miss HELEN WEBSTER, assistant in the treasurer’s
office at Washington and Lee, has found a valuable
manuscript of the poems of Margaret Junkin Preston.

While looking through papers in an old barrel in the

chemistry building at Washington and Lee, Miss Web-
ster came across a composition book in which are writ-

ten about seventy-five poems by Margaret Junkin—

Preston in her own hand writing. One poem is writ-
ten in pencil, the others in ink.

This poetry was composed by Mrs. Preston when

she was about eighteen to twenty years of age, a period —

in her life heretofore unknown to students of literature.
Her father was then president of Lafayette College in

Easton, Pa., and a little later president of Miami Uni-

versity at Oxford, Ohio. Nine years later the family

moved to Lexington, when Dr. Junkin became president
of Washington College, now Washington and Lee Uni-_

versity.

 

louNnpDERS’ Day meeting of the Board of Trustees”

was held Thursday, January 19th.

The resignation of Judge Charles J. McDermott,

New York City, member of the Board since 1922, was
received but not accepted by the Board.
Founders’ Day address was delivered by Colonel

Henry W. Anderson, ‘98, lawyer and distinguished

alumnus of Washington and Lee.

 

AN INVITATION was received in the alumni office
to the marriage of Addison Taulbee Whitt, '31, to Miss

Lucy Taliaferro Davis, on Saturday, January 7, 1933,_

at Winchester, Kentucky.

[ 12 |

 

At ae M N

I

MS Oe eee. he.

 

Spring Sports Have Full Schedules

By Jor

DISASTROUS Southern trip in which the Generals
lost four out of five games, defeating only Rich-
mond College, placed the team on the losing side

for their first eight games of the season. The ball team
was defeated by Wake Forest, North Carolina Uni-
versity, North Carolina. State, and William and Mary
on this trip. Returning home they defeated Vermont,
and dropped close games to North Carolina University
and North Carolina State. Drexel, the first game
scheduled, was called because of bad weather.

Losses from last year’s team were heavy and in-
cluded Routon, shortstop; Cross, second base; Tim
Cremin, third base; Mattox, catcher. These positions
have been filled by June Violett at second; Olin Miller
at shortstop; Cooke at third base; and Short, catcher.

The pitching staff is one of the strongest in years
with the return of Jarrett, Sauerbrun and Methvin
from last year’s team, and Chip Jones and Branaman
from last year’s freshman team. Both Jones and Bran-
aman did excellent work on Ellerman’s Brigadiers and
will undoubtedly start several games this season.

The outfield will be made up of Burroughs, Stein-
berg, Mueller, Walt Cremin, Cuoma, Schilling and
Chittum. Shilling will also see service behind the bat,
and Fitzgerald, all-American first baseman, will handle
the initial sack.

The Northern trip this spring will include George-
town, a night game, Maryland, Navy, Drexel, and
Army. Last year the team won the majority of their
games on this trip.

The schedule includes :

25—Drexel, here. Cancelled.

27—-Wake Forest, 7; W. and L., 2.
28—North Carolina U. 5; W. and L., 1.

March 29—North Carolina $., 11; W. and L., 1.

March 30-——Richmond College, 5; W. and L., 9.

April 1-—William and Mary, 3; W. and L., 0.

April 5—Vermont, 2; W. and L., 9.

April 10—North Carolina U, 2; W. and L., 1.

April 11—North Carolina S., 7; W. and L., 5.

April 15—Virginia, here.

April 17—William and Mary, here.

April 22—V. P. L., here.

April 25—Washington College, here.

April 29—Virginia, there.

May 1—V. P. I., there.

May 8—Georgetown, there.

May 9—Maryland, there.

March
March
March

[ 13

CONNER

May 10—Navy, there.
May 11—Drexel, there.
May 13—Army, there.

Freshman schedule includes:

April 5—S. M. A., 4; W. and L., 7.
April 8—F. M. S., 8; W. and L., 5.
April 12—S. M. A., here.

April 14—Clifton Forge, there.
April 26—Virginia, there.

May 1—Clifton Forge, here.

May 6—Virginia, here.

The

TRACK

,Washington and Lee’s thinclads divided honors
in their first two meets, losing only to V. P. I. on
April 10 by a score of 86 1-3 to 39 2-3, but the fol-
lowing Monday defeated Maryland 78 to 45. Two
more meets, the State tournament and the Southern
Conference tournament remain on the spring schedule.

Varsity men who are trying for positions are:
Dashes: Reasor, Band, and Sawyers; 440-yard run:
Hazel and McGeory; Half-mile: Dunaj, Gabb, and
Mincher; Mile and two mile: Dunaj, Sutter, Ruff,
Startsman, and Strong; Hurdles: Finkelstein, Schuhle,
and Hughes; High jump: Cook, Rivers, Curtis, and
Whiton; Pole vault: Sawyers, Wilson, Clements, and
Curtis; Broad jump: Whiton and Sawyers; Shot-put:
Hanley and Henthorne; Discus: Bacon, Fitzwilson and
Smith; Javelin: Fitzwilson, Mincher, and Dyer.

Of the men out for track only Sawyers, Finkle-
stein, Cook, Rivers, Curtis, Hanley, Bacon, and Fitz-
wilson have had previous experience with the Generals.

The schedule includes:

April 8—V. P. I., 86 1-3; W. and L., 39 2-3.

April 10—Maryland, 45, W. and L., 78.

April 15—William and Mary, there.

April 22—Duke, there.

April 28—Richmond, here.

May 13—State tournament.

May 20—Southern Conference tournament.

GOLF

Only one man from last year’s golf team returned
to school this year, but several likely sophomores are
making a bid for the team. Henry Cohen, who played
a consistent game all last season, is the one experienced
man, with McDavid, Alexander, Willard, and Walls
battling for the remaining positions.

J

Boe A ae

I

 
 

Mi Awa” A 2: t. Nae

 

‘The Generals will meet fourteen teams this spring,
with three schools who were not on Jast year’s schedule
appearing this year. ‘They are Boston University,
Catholic University, and Wake Forest. The latter was
placed on the schedule to fill the gap left by the failure
of North Carolina State to have a golf team this season.

The golfers’ biggest loss will be in Billy Howell,
who graduated last spring. Howell not only played a
good game here, but has gained a national reputation
for his Amateur playing and Walker Cup competition.

Cy Twombly, coach of golf, has been practicing
his men constantly for the past three weeks, and will
pick his final team in time for the match with Duke
on March 27.

The schedule:

March 27—Duke, there.

March 28—North Carolina U., there.
March 29—Davidson, there.

March 30—Wake Forest, there.
April 1-—William and Mary, here.
April 6—Duke, here.

April 7—Richmond, here.

April 17—Boston College, here.
April 21—Richmond, there.

April 22—William and Mary, there.
April 26—Davidson, here.

April 29—North Carolina U., here.
May 6—Catholic U., there.

May 13—Southern Conference, Chapel! Hill.

TENNIS

At present only four tennis meets and the South-
ern Conference match are on the Generals schedule,
but as the season progresses it is a certainty that more
matches will be scheduled. The team this year will be
built around Ned Wilson and Graham, the latter a
sophomore, and will have at other positions Reynolds,
Harliss, Ortner, and Stern, all experienced players.

Of the matches scheduled two will be played here,
with the other two at Washington against Georgetown,
and Charlottesville against the University of Virginia.
The Conference meet will be held at Chapel Hill.

The tennis schedule:

April 5—Hampden-Sydney, here.

April 15-—Georgetown, there.

April 21—Virginia, there.

April 25—V. P. I., here.

May 13—Southern Conference, Chapel Hill.

 

G. CarLTon Watters, LL.B., ’27, was married
December 30, 1932, to Miss Catherine W. deRivera, of
Woodmere, L. I. They are living in West Hemp-
stead, New York.

[i

i

Alumnus Elected Editor

Dr. C. S. Linn, A.B., Washington and Lee, 1899,
and present director of the chemistry department of the
University of Minnesota, has recently been honored -
by election to the Journal of Physical Chemistry. The
election is the latest of several distinctions which have
fallen to Dr. Lind since he first began the study of
chemistry under Dr. Howe during his senior year at_
Washington and Lee.

3EGAN ‘THROUGH CHANCE

It was only through a peculiar set of circumstances ~
that Dr. Lind first entered into the study of the science —
in which he has experienced such success. While a
senior here, he found that he would need credit in a_
science to graduate, and chanced to pick chemistry as
that subject. He succeeded so well in the course that_
he continued his work in the field after graduation,
going first to the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-_
nology, and later to Leipzig for a Ph.D., and Paris,
where he specialized in radium research. Sometime
was also spent at the Institute for Radium Research in~
Vienna. During the war, Dr. Lind devoted special at- |
tention to the use and control of radium in medicine.

PUBLICATION WELL KNOWN

The Journal of Chemistry was founded thirty-
seven years ago by Dr. Wilder D. Bancroft, head of the
chemistry department at Cornell. The publication, one
of the foremost of its type in the chemical world, has—
been conducted since then by a board of editors selected
from the American Chemical Society and the Chemical
Society of London. Upon Dr. Bancroft’s resignation
this year, the board unanimously voted to fill the va-
cancy thus left in the staff by offering the chair of
editor-in-chief to Dr. Lind.

 

Alumnus Candidate for Governor

Georce C. Prsery, 97, chairman of the State
Corporation Commission and former member of con-
gress form the Ninth District, is a candidate for the
Democratic nomination for Governor of Virginia in
the August primary. 1

Mr. Peery is a native of Tazewell county. He is~
the son of a pioneer family. He was born in 1875,
educated at Emory and Henry College and studied law
at Washington and Lee. He is a member of the Board
of ‘Trustees of the University. He was a teacher, a
farmer and a lawyer before entering public life. He
was first viewed as gubernatorial timber in 1924. Inv
1929 he was among the leading prospects but stepped
aside in favor of Governor Pollard.

  

T H E Lem ee

I

VM OR fies oe ee

 

qa"

Much Interest Shown in Intramural Athletics

By Frank L.

athletic
lee University reaches the

third intramural program of

Washington and

S THE

three-quarter mark in the 1932-33 session, all in-
dications show that the activities of the organization
have come to a peak and that the current season will
surpass those of the two initial years in both student
participation and in sports man-

agement.

When the

rectors held their opening meet-

intramural di-

ing in the fall of the present
school session, twenty-two clubs

made known their desires to
take active part in the athletic
competitions. Although — there

were twenty fraternities due to
register, the program was not
limited to these organizations.
Ever since the intramural ath-
letic schedule was inaugurated
in September, 1936, there has
been an active interest on the
part of students not associated
with Greek-letter societies. This
two organizations, the
the
Tigers represent the

year,

Barbarians and ‘Touring
non-fra-

ternity men.

The entire functions of the
league are under the direction
of the intramural board. ‘This governing body 1s com-
posed of six members. From the school is delegated
the director of physical education, Forrest Fletcher,
and two members of his staff, E. P. Twombly and A.
IY. Mathis.

dents thus maintaining a balance with the vote of the

Three boys annually represent the stu-
physical education staff. ‘Two of these men are chosen
by the local fraternities while the third is the secretary
of the student body who is always unaffiliated with a
campus social group.

This board carries on the twelve-sport program
of the association with three aims in view. First of all,
it tries to present a wholesome pastime to those who
are interested in athletics either as players or specta-
tors. Secondly, the board desires to extend and perfect
To

by the principles of sportsmanship and fair play is the

intramural competitions. teach students to abide

last object of this executive body.

|

 

Forrest Fletcher, Director of Intramural Program

l

cn

PRICE

In order that interest may be created in the various
activities awards are generously made to the outstand-
ing performers. The organization scoring the great-
est number of points during the year receives a hand-
some loving cup to keep as a permanent possession.
A small cup is awarded to the individual who scores
the greatest number of points
during the year. A third cup
is awarded to the organization
which has the greatest percent-
age of its members taking part
in intramural athletics through-
the Men
championships in the

out year. who win
various
sports and members of teams
who win a team championship
are awarded the gold intramural

medal.

The league is self-support-
ing and the University has no
expense in connection with the
A two-
dollar entry fee for team sports

intramural program.
and a twenty-five cent fee for
the
board to buy equipment and to

individual sports enables
secure attractive trophies and

medals.

Two years ago when the
to function

The first year

league first began
the students gave wholehearted support.
523 students participated. Last season a growth was
noted and the number of boys taking part increased to
the 557 mark. To date 500 boys have displayed their
abilities in the various contests on the 1933 schedule.
As the sport program is only three-fourths completed,
the officials estimate the present year will go beyond
the 600 line.

This year two new sports enlarged the schedule.
Horseshoes and volley ball were added, making a total
Of these both handball and
tennis have singles and doubles divisions.

of twelve different sports.

lootball proved itself to be the great game of the
college when 296 boys felt the lure of the pigskin. The
Kappa Alpha fraternity won the championship over
the Touring Tigers in the final game when they earned
their single touchdown in the first half.

Longacre, a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity,

TH -# A eS tN

I

Mi Ai ee. oe ee

 

won the horseshoe championship from a field of 109
competitors. Following their victory in the horseshoe
pitching, the Delta Upsilon organization increased its
point standing by winning the swimming title. Magee
starred for the champions by winning the 50-yard dash,
the backstroke and placed second in the 100-yard event.

Sigma Nu won the wrestling championship and
Alpha Tau Omega won the boxing title. The volley
ball was pushed and tossed to victory by the hands of
members of Pi Kappa Alpha. Again the Touring ‘Tig-
ers came to the front when they outplayed the Delta
Tau Deltas to gain the basketball championship. The
court game claimed the third greatest number of en-
trants when 170 men took part in the games. Snyder,
Phi Kappa Sigma bested his fraternity brother, Sager,
and was crowned handball champion.

As yet only eight of the 1933 contests have been
run off.
competitors, track, golf, and the singles and doubles in
tennis remain before the season closes. At present
plans are being pushed to put on a larger track and field
meet than was held last year when 111 men took part.
This meet is scheduled to be staged on Wilson fieid the
week following the University spring holidays.

Two years ago Kappa Alpha won the team trophy.
That year Cochran of the winners was the outstanding
individual performer of the year when he won the in-
dividual title. Last year the championship went to
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity when they scored a
total of 208 points.
champions, won the individual trophy.

With their recent victory scored in the basketball
tournament the Touring Tigers took the lead in the
present race. Up to this event the Kappa Alpha team
was leading the league but at this point was forced into
second place. The Tigers roar that they now have 203
points, a 28-point lead over the Kappa Alpha’s. As
the scores stand with the program eight-twelfths com-
pleted, the twenty-two organizations have the following
points toward the 1933 championship:

RONNIE: Te ORNs oe iio esa 203
Mee PIG ee i oo os). ER oes 175
Bl ROR Fa ise vig ccs edces scone 144
Sigma Alpha Evpsilon ..).:..00.00....hiced: 133
Pet enon Sima se alle bene 122
Align: Tae Omega 0.5).5.0 2205 eas. 116
appa ise iii hk... Se ee 98
Retin: Pale LOR 33. Gas. AR ee 93
Pik mon Fee ch. ee ee 92
<4 | a ee eS WOR 88
Re A BOE es cic ae ee 85
PRGre. LIMOS 09k Se 77
PRO GY TNO ois. hea hs Ba BERS 74

Baseball, second most popular in number oi

Hodges, associated with the 1932 .

P'S SERIO OS. fey gs ies. te eps 74
SoMPIIN, MMS 8 a5 cle aa cals cade bo Seve cae 71
sigma Phi. Epsilon |.x..:205...00000.00008.. 64
Pee a Se ee he ae es a ie 61
Lamina Cl Alpe se. oo cid... scesiclontet aes 61
PUR eMttIR TOO 2045 ek. ee 60
Pimper Scale.) Season a ee ic ek 54
Pee ee lee 1, Rt 47
CORR ee, FA 2 Sa ee, Mieke. 30

 

Twenty-one Tapped by O. D. K.

AT AN ASSEMBLY at Washington and Lee, Thurs-
day, February 23rd, following an address by Dr. Mar-
len IX. Pew, editor of Editor and Publisher, nineteen stu-
dents and one faculty member along with Dr. Pew
were tapped for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa,
the society which recognizes leadership in campus activ-
ities. The faculty member honored was John Higgins
Williams of the school of commerce. Students elected
were John W. Ball, Jacksonville, Fla.; George D. Mc- |
Clure, Dallas, Tex.; John D. Copenhaver, Roanoke, Va. ;
Kdwin H. Bacon, Charleston, W. Va.; Harvard P.
Smith, Murfreesboro, Tenn.; James R. Moore, Som-
erset, Ky.; Harvey Pride, Decatur, Ala.; Robert A.
Morris, Kenova, W. Va.; Amos A. Bolen, Ashland,
Ky.; W. W. Hawkins, Jr., Pelham, N. Y.; Sherwood
W. Wise, Saglehurst, Miss.; M. Peel Rivers, Louis-
ville, Ky.; Joe H. Sawyers, Beckley, W. Va.; Rich- —
ard ‘T’. Edwards, Roanoke, Va.; Joe F. Bear, Montgom-
ery, Ala.; Carl Bear, Montgomery, Ala.; Carl B. Vick-
ers, Montgomery, W. Va.; William L. Wilson, Owens-
boro, Ky.; C. P. Lee, Pine Bluff, Ark.

 

W. and L. Songs Published

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Glee Club has com-
piled and edited a book of songs which contains all
the songs written pertaining to Washington and Lee.
Mr. John A. Graham, director of the club, collected —
the pieces and wrote the music for several of the songs.

Published by Thornton W. Allen, °13, copyright
holder of the famed Washington and Lee “Swing,”
now head of a collegiate music publishing house in —
New York, the book is attractively designed and
printed. The cover contains a full page picture of the
campus, and all songs contain the words of each piece,
being also arranged for four-part singing.

The book itself contains eighteen pages compris- —
ing nine songs, and an introductory acknowledgement —
by the officers of the club. Copies will be on sale at
the surprisingly low. price of fifteen cents.

[ 16 ]

 

A. ta oe

J

NM AiG A -Giowe-s f

 

Winter Sports Season Successful

By DeForest CLARK

Se FOUR major winter sports at Washington and

and losses.

Lee just about broke even on the number of wins
hese activities included wrestling, basket-
ball, boxing and swimming. ‘The General teams in
these sports were credited with fifteen wins, twelve

losses and one tie for the season of 1932-1933.

The basketball team passed
through the first season under
the tutorage of Cy Young, new
varsity coach. At the begin-
ning of the Coach
Young had a few practice games
scheduled with athletic
from Lynchburg and Staunton,
but these games had to be call-
ed off due to the early closing
of Washington and Lee at
Christmas time. Not counting
the tournament games played at
Raleigh, the Generals chalked

season,

clubs

up five victories to nine losses.
On paper this is not such a good
showing but taking in the fact
that several of the games were
lost by one and two-point mar-
gins, the first year under Coach
Young was successful.

The five victories were over
St. Johns, Gallaudet College of
Washington, Maryland, Wil-
liam and Mary, and Virginia. The defeats were caus-
ed by Virginia, twice; V. P. I., twice; North Carolina
State, North Carolina University, Duke and Maryland.
This last season the Blue and White quintet met Vir-
ginia three times instead of the usual two games. ‘The
first game was played in Lynchburg and the Cavaliers
emerged with a five-point victory. The next game was
played at Charlottesville and Virginia again came out
ahead, but only by two points. The final game of the
series, played in Lexington, was a reverse, and the
Generals easily overwhelmed the Cavaliers by a large
score to climax the playing season.

Standing eighth place in Southern Conference rat-
ing, the Big Blue was invited to participate in the South-
ern Conference tournament held at Raleigh. The
first opponent drawn was North Carolina State, who
had already defeated the Generals by a slim margin
during the season. The Red Terrors were a seeded

 

A. E. Mathis, Championship Wrestling Coach

team and the predictions were a loss for the Generals.
However, the team functioned in fine shape, and North
Carolina State was defeated by one point. The next op-
ponent was Duke, but the Generals were outplayed and
dropped the game to a superior team coached by Eddie
Cameron, former Washington and Lee basketball star.

The following men receiv-
ed monograms for their show-
ing during the season: Jarrett,
co-captain: Holbrouk, co-cap-
tain; Sawyers, l*itzwilson, Hen-
thorne, Fields, Smith,
Violett and Copenhaver, senior
manager. C. W. Hamilton was
elected senior manager and §.

Jones,

Higgins, junior manager.

At a meeting of all mono-
gram men following the close
of the season, Joe Sawyers was
1934

Sawyers was a star for-

elected captain of the
team.
ward and high point scorer for
He was also

mentioned on the all-state team

the entire season.

as a forward, the only man from

Washineton and Lee to gain
S >

this recognition. Paul Hol-
brook, guard, was given honor-
able mention. This is Hol-

brook’s last year of varsity

competition for the Generals.
SOUTHERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONS

lor the first time in four years, a Washington
The

Generals traveled to Annapolis to meet the strong Naval

and lee varsity wrestling team was defeated.

Academy team and were defeated by a score of 19-13.
The result of the meet depended upon the last match
of the afternoon and Bolen of Washington and Lee
lost to “Killer” Kane by a fall. The Big Blue made
up for the loss to Navy when the Southern Conference
tournament was held at V. M. I. Piling up 32 points,
Washington and Lee’s team was crowned champion of
wrestling in the Southern Conference.

R. Thomas,
115-pounds ; Sarkis, 125-pounds; Munger, 135-pounds ;

four men won their final matches.

and Pritchard, 165-pounds, all won individual cham-
pionships for the Generals. H. Smith and C. Thomas

[a7 j

2 2 oe A baie ee

I

Mi AP (hee oa. ee

 

lost out in the finals, but both took a first place in the
consolation matches and helped to add points for the
Generals. .

Outside of the Navy defeat, the season was highly
successful, and the Big Blue won all other meets.
North Carolina State, North Carolina University,
Davidson and V. P. I. were all topped by the Generals.
Pritchard and Munger never lost a meet during the
season.

At the close of the season a meeting was held by
all the monogram men and H. Smith and Pritchard
were elected co-captains for next year. C. Thomas,
a senior on the 1933 team, was elected honorary cap-
tain of that team.

The men receiving monograms were: T. R.
Thomas, C. E. Thomas, Sarkis, R. P. DeVan, Hodges,
H. Smith, Pritchard and Johnson, senior manager.
C. J. Freund was elected junior manager.

Boxers LosE ONE

Winning three meets, losing one and tying one,
the Washington and Lee varsity boxers completed a
successful year under the careful coaching of Tex Til-
The one tie came at the hands of the strong
Maryland team, who journeyed to Lexington and open-
ed the season for the Generals.

son.

Without much trouble, the Big Blue sluggers
found little trouble in defeating North Carolina State,
Roanoke College and V. P. I. by good margins. The
final meet of the season was held at Annapolis where
the boxers lost to the Naval Academy, 7-1. Ed Min-
cher was the only victor for the Generals when he won
a decision over his opponent after three rounds of hard
fighting.

Entering all but two men in the Southern Con-
ference tournament held at Charlottesville, only one
man reached the finals. Nace Collins, 175-pounder,
won his preliminary and semi-final bouts by a knock-
out and a decision. This gave him the right to meet
Reiss of Virginia in the finals. The bout was hard
fought but Reiss was finally given the decision in the
third. J. Pound, captain of the team, drew a bye in
the preliminaries, but lost in the semi-finals to Dunna-
way of North Carolina by a technical knockout.

Immediately following the Navy meet, a meeting
was held by members of the team and Ed Mincher
was elected captain of next year’s team. During the
1933 season Mincher lost only one bout, to Garner of
North Carolina State. The previous year Mincher
found little trouble in defeating Garner at a meet held
at Raleigh.

Men receiving monograms at the end of the sea-
son were: Pound, Collins, Martin, Short, Mincher,

—

Thomas, De La Ossa, Cleveland and McClure, senior
manager. |
STATE CHAMPIONS ‘

For the second consecutive season, Washington
and Lee’s varsity swimming team defeated Virginia to —
earn the state championship. The opening meet was
held at Williamsburg, where the Generals deteated
William and Mary 42-24. The next two meets were
held in North Carolina, and the Big Blue broke even, —
winning one from North Carolina State and dropping
the other to Duke. The final meet of the season was —
held in Doremus gym pool, and the General tankmen —
topped Virginia for the championship. |

At the Southern Conference tournament held at_
Charlottesville this year, the Big Blue swimmers were
not so lucky and took a third place. Virginia won -
first position by placing many of their men in the finals
while the Duke Blue Devils held a close second. |

Monograms were awarded to Rivers, co-captain;
Cohen, Williams, Martin, Franklin, Glynn, Todd, Heat-
ley, Braun, Harris and Culley, senior manager. Me-
David and Moreland, co-captain, received major let-
ters for varsity work.

 

A Letter From Benton S. Rude, 90
STATE OF NEW YORK
LEGISLATIVE BILL DRAFTING COMMISSION
ALBANY, N. Y.
January 20, 1933
Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines,
President, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.
Dear Sir:

Was much pleased to receive your communica _—
tion, of date January 19th, addressed to the alumni of
Washington and Lee. Have always been proud of the-
fact that I attended the university, and particularly”
that it was my privilege to acquire the fundamentals
of constitutional law under the tutelage of John Ran-
dolph Tucker. By a curious set of circumstances, I
am and for twenty-seven years have been engaged in
an official position calling for the giving of opinions
alinost daily on the constitutionality of proposed leg-
islation. ‘To date, my “guesses” along that line have
averaged to be something better than fifty per centum
right, thanks to the foundation provided by Mr. Tucker.

If I can be the means of guiding pupils in the di-
rection of the W. and L. U., will do it cheerfully.
Just now, I have no one in mind.

Very truly yours,
BENTON S$. RUDE,
Commissioner, etc.

[ 18 |

 

T H E AS Ae ee ee

ae Washington and [Lee Alumni Association of
>

Ey Huntington, W. Va., and Ashland, Ky., met at
the Pritchard Hotel in Huntington on January 19, 1933.
The following officers were elected :

P. P. Gibson, 713, President; A. W. Mann, ’15,
Vice-President; Joe Fitchett, ’24, Secretary-Treasurer.

Alumni present were:
Dr. E. W. McCorkle, 74;
KE. W. McCorkle, Jr., ’26;
A. W. Mann, ‘15; J. F.
Strother, ‘21; EK. H. Long,
21; J. E. Moore, *19; Ira
P. Bear, 05; L. W. Gil-
kinson, Jr., 20; G. D.
Mayor, ‘26; W. T. Lovins,
14; John T. McVay, ’25;
G. M. McLaughlin. ‘18;
Houston Laird, ’24; M. I.
Dunn, Jts 40: oe
Klein, °25; J. W. Fitchett,
'24; T. So ponese 20 ye
L.. Beuhring, ‘14; Phillip
P. Gibson, ‘13.

The address of the oc-
casion, delivered by Rev.
IY. W. McCorkle, D.D., of
Ashland, Ky., on Robert
ly. Lee, follows:

The Alpine King, Mt.
lane, is not impressive as
you stand and look upon
his vast white flanks from
the vale of Chamounix,
but from the plains of
Savoy, fifty miles away,

his appearance is grand.

 

There he rises and kisses
the clouds. The rays of
the sun as they fall, sparkle like diamonds on his
coronet of snow. So the heroes of any time are best
viewed after years. And the world after a half cen-
tury is just realizing how large Robert Edward Lee
looms on the horizon.

We are just beginning to catch a glimpse of his
grandeur as it rises in majesty from the past. History
is now placing upon his brow the diadem of glory and
the everlasting sunshine of greatness is settling upon his
head. General Robert E. Lee was born at Stratford,
Westmoreland County, Virginia, about 125 years ago.

[ 19

 

M A G A 46 c

Huntington Alumni Hold Meeting

He was born in the same room where two of his
father’s cousins, Richard Henry and Francis Lightfoot
lee, both signers of the Declaration of Independence,
hrst saw the light. He sprang therefore from the loins
of distinguished ancestry. In his veins flowed the flow-
er of the chivalry of the old and new world.

The Lees of Virginia
trace their origin to
Launcelot Lee, who en-
tered England with Wil-
liam the Conqueror and
distinguished himself at
the Battle of Hastings.
Lionel Lee, a later mem-
ber of the famuly tollowed
Richard, “The Lion-
Hearted” to Palestine and
was rewarded for gallant
services at the siege of
Acre. President Thomas
Lee was the first native
American to govern the
colony of Virginia. The
ancient manor house of
Stratford was built for
this president, Thomas
Lee, by the East India
Company, aided by an
ample donation by Queen
Caroline. Thomas Lee was
the father of Richard Lee,
who, on June 10, 1776, in-
troduced into the Conti-
nental Congress the Reso-
lution proclaiming to the
world the fact “that these
United Colonies are, and
of a right ought to be, free
and independent states.” Richard Henry Lee was the
cousin of “Lighthorse” Harry Lee, Washington’s fam-
ous cavalry officer, whose memorable words, “First in
war...” forever enshrined his great triend in the
history of his people. This ‘“Lighthorse” Harry Lee
who served with distinction throughout the Revolu-
tionary War, was elected to Congress and thrice elected
Governor of Virginia, gave to the world his greater
son, Robert EK. Lee.

Young Lee, having secured an appointment to
West Point through General Andrew Jackson, entered

.. ee Ae A Er eo N

I

  

MM? Altre: Ate ot mM

 

this famous school from which he graduated second in
his class and without a single demerit. He was assigned
to the service as an engineer on the coast defenses.
Arlington, which crowns the Virginias and_ sloped
almost in the shadow of the Capitol across the Potomac,
was the scene of the marriage of Lieutenant Lee to

Mary Randolph Custis, daughter of Washington's
adopted son, Washington Parke Custis. He appeared

next in the Mexican War where he received his first
baptism of fire and where no other was so distinguished
for deeds of daring as was the then, Captain R. E. Lee.
Within a week after the siege of Verz Cruz began, his
masterly rearrangement of the batteries resulted in the
reduction of that city. His conduct was signalized also
on the steeps of Chapultepec where he was wounded
and for his gallantry received the rank of Brevet Col-
onel. General Scott declared that his success in Mex-
ico was largely due to the skill, undaunted valor and
energy of R. E. Lee. His next appearance was at
Harper's Ferry where he captured John Brown. Later
while on the Rio Grande he hears the oniinous tones
of the coming storm about to break about the head of
his beloved State. After an agonizing conflict in which
he was torn by conflicting emotions, we behold him
offering his sword to his old Mother against whom he
would not lift his hand. Then on the new arena, he
moves like a very god of war, scattering his thunder-
bolts on the plains of Manassas, I*redericksburg,
Sharpsburg, Gettysburg, in the Wilderness, around
Richmond, Petersburg and at Appomattox, where the
curtain falls on the bloody drama. Then we see him
retiring in grandeur to an obscure school where he
might train the sons of the South. After a few years
of splendid service his spirit passed over the river to
rest under the shade of the trees with his great Lieu-
tenant, Stonewall Jackson, in the sight of whose grave
he sleeps. Lexington has his ashes, but the world has
his fame.

A soldier’s ability is guaged by the odds against
which he has the skill to contend. Sir Charles James
Napier, the eminent British soldier and military critic
writes, “. . .we doubt whether any general of ancient
or modern history ever sustained for four years (a
longer period than Hannibal’s fifteen years in the re-
mote past) a war in which while disposing of scanty
resources himself, he had arrayed against him such an
enormous aggregate of men, horses, ships and supplies.
It is an under rather than an over estimate to say that
in the first two vears the odds were ten to one against
the South. In the last two years they were twenty to
one.” General Wade Hampton in reviewing the cam-
paign of 1862 says that Lee in the short space of two
months with a force at no time exceeding seventy-five

[ 20 |

  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  

thousand men, defeated in repeated engagements, two
Federal Armies, each of which was not less than 120,000
strong, relieved the Southern capital from danger and
even threatened that of the North. If to the Federal
losses we add those of Fredericksburg, we shall have
the enormous number of 87,500 men killed, wounded
and captured by Lee’s Army in one short campaign
with 154 pieces of artillery and 75,000 stand of small
Now consider the numbers with which he had
to contend in the accomplishment of this Hercule
task. At Chancellorsville, Lee had about 53,000 me
present for duty while Hooker’s army numbered 133,-
000 men. Lee had at Gettysburg 90,000 men of al
arms, while Meade had 100,000 on the field. In the
death grapple of the Wilderness, Grant fought wit
192,000 men while Lee with a small force of 78,000
men made the most savage onslaught and inflicted ap-
palling losses. At Gold Harbor the same disparity of
numbers prevailed, yet so strong a stand was made and
so desperate was the fighting that in 55 minutes 13,000
men were lying dead with their faces upturned to the
stars. Only the master mind and consummate courage
of this great chieftain nerved that thin grey line te
carry for four years the fortunes of the Confedera
on the points of their bayonets.

aris.

With 35,000 half starved, footsore, ragged men,
he held a line thirty-five miles long at Petersburg
against a splendidly equipped army which according
io the report of the secretary of war numbered 162,000
men. Swinton, the historian of the Army of the Po-
tomac has this to say: “. . .Lee’s infantry was incom
parable and could only be beaten by annihilation, and
when they fought, they fought to the death.’ Hooke
in his testimony before the Committee on the Condu
of the War, said: “. . . with a rank and file vastly in
ferior to our own, physically and intellectually, that
army has by discipline alone, acquired a character for
steadfastness and efficiency unsurpassed in ancient 0
modern times.” Who forged that blade of finest Da
mascus steel, and wielded it with such ease anc
strength? It was Robert E. Lee, an unrivalled swords-
man with dauntless courage and matchless skill. True,
he was ground to powder, ground beneath the mill
stones of power. But Lee never lost a single pitchec
battle, or sustained a disastrous rout. He and his thi
grey line yielded only to the pitiless forces of attrition
and exhaustion. At Marathon, Miltiades with a small
force beat back the Persian hosts from the gates of
Athens. At Arbela, Alexander crushed the effeminate
forces of Asia. At Cannae, Hannibal destroyed the
legions of Rome and maintained his army for fiftee
years in Italy against a divided senate at Carthage.
Julius Cesar conquered Gaul and Spain and routec

E A Te ee ee

I

Mi Ai sa 2 ee

 

= H

Pompey on the plains of Pharsalia. Napoleon over-
ran all Europe. Miltiades, Hannibal, Alexander and
Caesar could easily overcome barbarous hordes with
small forces. Marlborough and Wellington never.
fought such odds as Lee. Tried by that test he stands
peerless and alone, one of the great captains of all
time. “A Cesar without his ambition, a Frederick
without his tyranny, a Napoleon without his selfishness,
a Washington without his reward.” Lord Wolserley,
Commander-in-Chief of the British Army, declares
that all will admit that “General Lee towered far above
all men on either side in that great struggle. I believe
he will be regarded not only as the most prominent
figure in the world, but as the great American of the
19th Century whose statue is well worthy to stand on
an equal pedestal with that of Washington, and whose
memory is equally worthy to be enshrined in the hearts
of his countrymen.”

The splendid crown of this superb character was
the fact that he was an humble Christian, not a mere
formal Christian, but a devout believer. On one oc-
casion the Chaplains visited him in regard to matters
connected with better observance of the Sabbath in the
Army. After a most satisfactory interview as they
were about to retire, one of them said: “. . .we are all
praying for you, General Lee.” ‘Tears came into the
eyes of the great man, as he replied: “I am a poor sin-
ner trusting in Christ alone for salvation, and I need
the prayers of all of God’s people.” His reverence
for all things sacred was especially strong. Just be-
fore the Battle of the Wilderness, when the engage-
ment was coming on as General Lee with his staff was
riding along the line, they came upon a group of men
engaged in prayer. At once the great chieftain stop-
ped, bared his head and waited until the prayer had
ended. He ever felt the deepest interest in the spirit-
ual welfare of his soldiers. At Lexington it was his
earnest desire that every man in the college might be-
come a Christian. His convictions of right were un-
alterable, and General Grant, his magnanimous foe,
said he knew it was useless to suggest anything not in
accordance with Lee’s idea of right. Duty was with
him not only the sublime word, but ever also the sub-
lime deed. It was manifest in his heroic self-sacrifice.

After Appomattox, offers came to him from all
quarters asking for the use of his name in connection
with various companies, but he declined them all, though
large salaries were attached, and repaired to Lexington
where he might train the sons of the South. At the
outbreak of hostilities, it is said that Frank P. Blair
offered him the command of the Union Army, but he
turned away from that with all that it meant of honor
and glory, though it severed his connection with the

old army that he loved, and the country that he had so
gallantly served, and chose rather to suffer affliction
with his own people. Never since the Son of God
turned his back upon the kingdoms of this world, and
their glory, and turned his face toward Calvary with
its suffering and agony, have any of his followers
trod the same path in a more heroic spirit of self-sac-
rifice. When overwhelmed with disaster at Appomat-
tox, the same sublime spirit marked his every action,
though he was passing through a human Gethsemane
and though the sweat of blood was in his inmost soul,
it gave no sign. As he was a victor without reproach,
so he was a victim without murmuring. Like Prome-
theus when bound by the hand of power, he made no
moan. In him met the generosity of Caesar, with the
chivalric self-sacrifice of Sydney and the piety of
Havelock.

Vanquished,

He was yet a victor.

To honor virtue is to honor him.

To reverence wisdom is to do him reverence.

In life he was a model for all who lived ;

In death he left a heritage for all.

One such example is worth more to earth

Than the stained triumphs of ten thousand

Caesars.

When the allied armies entered Paris the rude
Cossacks from the north were awe-struck as they gazed
upon the masterpieces in the Louvre. Unconsciously
they drew themselves to a more erect posture and a
loftier height as they stood in the presence of match-
less marvels of perfect manhood. So all men of all
time are elevated as they gaze upon this Apollo Bel-
videre of wondrous proportions. The close of such a
career was worthy of its greatness. Surviving the
ruins of his hopes, but not like Marius brooding among
the ruins, with him human courage was equal to human
calamity. And having spent the closing years of his
life in the service of the South, on whose altar he had
lain as a sacrifice, like the warrior he was, wrapping
the drapery of his couch about him, he lay down to
silent dreams. ‘He was as obedient to authority as a
servant, as royal in authority as a servant, as royal to
authority as a king, gentle as a woman in life, pure as a
virgin in thought, submissive to law as Socrates, grand
in battle as Achilles.” ‘The elements were so mixed
in him that all the world might stand up and say ‘This
was a man.’ ”

Ah, muse, you dare not claim a nobler man than he.
Nor nobler man hath less of blame

Nor blameless man hath purer name

Nor purer name hath grander fame

Nor fame another Lee.

[ 21 ]

Be. Le ee ee

I

 
 

Ne Ase wee Ae ae oe

 

 

OBITUARY

DR. SAMUEL H. HALLEY, ’93

Dr. SamuEL H. HAttey, A.B. 93, sixty-one
years old, Lexington, Ky., tobacco warehouseman and
a pioneer in the present smoking type of burley to-
bacco, died suddenly at his home, ‘“ Meadowthorpe,”
near Lexington, January 19, 1933.

A native of Scott County, Kentucky, Dr. Halley
received his A.B. degree from Washington and Lee in
1893, and his medical education at Columbia Univer-
sity and at the Hospital Medical School, Louisville,
from which he was graduated in 1893. After his grad-
uation he practiced medicine for two years in Scott
County and then took up farming with special emphasis
on the growing of tobacco. He developed the Halley
special type of tobacco.

Dr. Halley, with his associates, formed the Fay-
ette Tobacco Warehouse Co., in 1905 and served as its
president until 1921, when this company was taken over
by the Burley Tobacco Growers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation. When the pool disbanded, Dr. Halley resumed
the presidency of the warehouse company.

At Washington and Lee, Sam Halley was a mem-
ber of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, and a roommate and
fraternity-man of John W. Davis. Dr. Halley cam-
paigned in several states for his friend of college days
when he was Democratic nominee for the Presidency
in 1924.

An editorial in the Lexington Herald by his friend
Desha Breckenridge concludes as follows: *“Inheritor
of long traditions of selfless service, gifted with fine
intellect and high courage, educated under the noble
influence of the great soldier and stainless gentleman,
Robert E. Lee, blessed by the companionship of a de-
voted and consecrated helpmate, Doctor Halley gave
unstintedly of brain and heart and strength to his
friends, the people of his state. ‘The world is richer
because of his life, poorer because of his death.”

 

 

 

JUDGE JOS. M. TURBYFILL, 713

JosevuH M. TurByFILL, state representative from
Hastings, Nebraska, died February 18th, after an at-
tack of pneumonia. He was 42 years old.

Mr. Turbyfill received his A.B. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1913 and later his LL.B. from
the University of North Carolina. At Washington
and Lee he was a member of the varsity basketball
squad.

He entered the army shortly after he left law

[ 22 |

 
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
      
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

school and served with the 8lst division in the artil-
lery. He was overseas eleven months and took part
in the Argonne offensive and other important engage-
ments.

Judge Turbyfill had been a resident of Hastings
Nebraska, since 1919. He entered a law firm in Hast
ings soon after his discharge from the army. In 192(
he was elected county judge.

He is survived by his widow.

 

ROY G. MITCHELL, ’96

RowLanp GREENE MitcHELL, prominent Clar
County farmer and politician and former citizen of
Rockbridge, died suddenly at his home at Boyce, Va.
Friday. His death resulted from a heart attack ane
he passed away before medical assistance could be
summoned. He was sixty years old. Funeral services
were held Sunday afternoon at Christ Episcope
church, Millwood, of which he was senior warden.

Mr. Mitchell came to Rockbridge wher a boy, wi
his parents from New York and lived for a number of
years at the Adam McChesney farm at Brownsburg
which his father purchased and improved. He grad-
uated in 1896 at Washington and Lee University and
for two years represented the county in the state leg-
islature. He was a member of Kappa Alpha fra
ternity. .

In 1906 he moved to Boyce, Va., where he en
gaged in farming and the real estate business and be
came a leader in local politics, being a member of
Clarke County and Seventh District Democratic com
mittees. He was also a director in Winchester
Boyce banks and prominently identified with severé
hunt clubs. He was a very popular figure in Re
bridge and Clarke.

He was a son of Henry Post Mitchell and Rebece
Price Mitchell of Philadelphia. He is survived by ht
widow, the former Miss Susan Randolph Page, t
sons and a daughter.

All

 

DR. CHARLES H. DAVIDSON, ’92

Dr. Cuartes H. Davinson, died at his home it
Lexington, Va., January 22, 1933. He had been 1
infirm health for over a year, and his passing was no
unexpected.

Mr. Davidson was born and reared on a Ke
Creek farm in Rockbridge County. He began his edw-
cation at Washington and Lee where he was a studen
from 1890 to 1892, and turning his attention to medt
cine, he went to the University of Virginia, where ht
was graduated as a physician in 1894. Following grad
uation he studied for two and a half years at Bellevut
Hospital and Polyclinic in New York City. He the

=

-: Boe he AR ee

went abroad and studied at the famous European
schools in Berlin and Vienna.
he settled in Lexington in 1901.

Returning to Virginia

He was deeply interested in the welfare of Rock-
bridge County and was largely responsible for the es-
tablishment of its health unit. In his invalidism of a
few years ago he became a student of Rockbridge his-
tory, and the local papers were indebted to him for many
communications of value about the early generations of
the county.

 

FRANK M. MARTIN, ’05

FRANK M. Martin, ’05, died at his home, Forest
Hills, Durham, N. C., February 5, 1933.

Born in Tennessee, June 4, 1872. He graduated
with honors from Washington and Lee, receiving a
scholarship in Greek, and one in Philosophy.

Mr. Martin taught for fifteen years in Texas, re-
signing the superintendency of El Paso schools to be-
come superintendent of schools at Farmville, Va., a
position he held for ten years, and then went to Peters-
burg in a similar capacity for nine years. Since 1922
he has been superintendent of schools at Durham,
North Carolina.

 

**McCRUM’S”

As Always The Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI
ST UDERNES
AND
FRIENDS
Of
Washington and Lee

UNEXCELLED FOUNTAIN SERVICE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

I

Be ee A Oe eee eee

S. E. F. ROSE, ’72

S. E. F. Ross, ’72, died at his home in West Point,
Miss., after an illness of several years. He was 82
years old.

Mr. Rose was a student at Washington College
at the time of General Lee’s death. His name is on
the class roll of that year, on the table in General
Lee’s study, which has been kept just as it was left by
General Lee on his last visit to his study.

 

VISCOUNT HIDEI FUKUOKA, ’90

59 Kanatomi-cho,
Koishikawa-ku, Tokyo.
January 29, 1933
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va., U.S. A.,
Gentlemen :

It is my sad duty to inform you of the passing
away of my beloved father, the late Viscount Hide1
Fukuoka, after a prolonged illness which culminated
in his death on the 27th of November, 1932. One of
his last wishes was that I communicate with his Alma
Mater, letting them know of his going.

Yours very truly,
Takatsugu Fukuoka

 

BOLEY’S
BOOK STORE

SPECIAL

Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7x9, prepaid......$1.50

General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid...... 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid............ 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7x9, prepaid.......... 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

[ 23 ]

mo a ae Be eee A a ae

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their
cards in the directory. Rates on application.

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE GIBSON WITHERSPOON EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18-’22

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAW YER
204-208 Lawyers Building Douglas, Obear and Douglas

Atlantic City, New Jersey Meridian, Mississippi Southern Bldg., Washington, D. C.
BLANK & STOLLER, Inc. JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Photographers of Men ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Official Photographers for the
Alumni Magazine Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building

227 E. 45th St., New York

19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Il. Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

 

John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
Compliments of TUCKER AND MASON

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE LAW OFFICES
E. C. CAFFREY, '00 Commercial National Bank Building

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL | THI |
Seal and Dice ee ree GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW Lewisburg, West Virsini
General practice in the courts of the Suite 301 Bank of America Building
District of Columbia and Federal | pares,
H. B. Moore, Principal
ree i. 625 Market St., San Francisco, Cal.
Associate Income Tax Specialists J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Principal

Telephone EXbrook 0237

Tower Building, Washington, D. C. |

———__ a

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and
Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally
good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

[ 24 |

 

 

 

i ss z
ve ott
RAGGSt VES

7% wh” $e

Y . a, aecraee Highest a pee 2
5 bre Ae a hisien SS oor ; n° Sa iW epe . ; eels oP as Sie eer
z , ries mao) RS hoa : ? Ce ‘a 5 woe f Pee So fe: tie cn . io ~ eT e Ps = ad Sy Se hes
enice (gees oe, ‘apse ie ens d ke e fab? ames mn 2 : 5 i ye oh Pe Moran a
Px A Cee pe De IPE Fela bo Bees, J ORFs: RT GE Set tS) Dae nts SS
> ing ; ¥ he SAGAS ie oe pe nl = ‘ el * ce a oe She is
, : A SEE ; ra Pe <e
ae ~" cs re

tat ee bes 7 aoe
cer iene nt goer
; t at a eS Vos toe ae

<—m™,
me

ae o
ne ve
Bi 3 < i

3

ay _
ro

LEAT Aes

a ioiee

ae

Pm in rer. Ss ;
Sites Bane yg
eee ao Ga
sy |

#53
«
-/ me
Ya? +
a $e a
a
- Ms A
ay Ate.
en

, Fee : ee 4 . Poe ; ae e450 : ;
Pe } a Mi 84 rats? Peo ree ree ae F > adit ; : + “eS " ih rs ; fi hehe
, “ y ee p/ 4 25 P f ‘ rr } ~~ " ; ; 4 , ee, ‘ais
are et ; ; , . na poe Fes Pes g & a aeae r i ou : , aner NY tan
Pees OG ey ay 2 \ s Sak ty ~ , Ban AE mi Ns ; : Shed sea
Me Baap Care: 3! eres Sea OP: ee ATE : ’ PUAN Ore, Waray sae Aa aotys
a aS 7 <4. a : y a i ae pe | mt) > 2 . fi E ty Wer aS . os .
‘ « - he # Nee / Lire Nien s j Yd ae b Ds DA ep '
res AES Ss - ie eI eS eh eee < a i

ve
- 4
C f

Wit

ee

0 LAL At
, Sh aipe

:
ES

Wai
Sees
Arne!

ate

et

.

? +e
a ae
Pe 2 es
=
r
|

;
Se,

4
sy
a

m A ; oo
‘ Le ” aaa] ‘ he)
oes Bey Pe ¥

Pay sad
ree ~ 17

é¢

iy 2
*

4+
fe

y yah
Se oN aes.
a5, ; ee a
ean

es a op eek Danae AS att: eis BOON on Dehob ot eoe be Sah ae
Part 3: 42 4 a , a $ ; Mae 2) ¢ : : h, Os Be , I * : | » “ Pa ; 7 OD as
¥ . ESS y . oh Seay > PA phe oe An P >) 5 3 Pe a te / . *
‘ FS r i r , : . eRe
Sue sae < oo ;
b Seats

a

a
any —
el}

fat
Cece
a
Deny wr <%,'
.
J

Le
ey, Sy,
a

A

a
-

i7
iy

a

se Se
J

rd
ary
ies)

ro 7 < At
Bis. b ir ears .
ae ERS i
aren Oita tt
OTA ay: FN PR:

bes if
?

: 7 a
DA ay
o re a ee

iG: P

: : Nore eas Base tA key ; ’ ee . , eed i EBL
, Pay ca ee ta y “ f Wy, J * 5 4 et Py b
EES GLa eA BAUS SN: 5 ee Y ROT “
coe Vass RES RO
at R ) %

care
atin ea

r 7
REIN SSN
AQHA At Sting my
BS Rete’ A} S AA bs 4 fy G Pi » f
if SA er ens a say . ‘ ‘ ¥ oO} re y as ‘he 7 ye : ¥ AX as we i a ys ! aN a a
UE AIS as Reo ROPE RUR ith Oa Ha Lesa eee tk See Sane DN Rian
NP BAR Fee Reidy: RUIN MarR sn ane BA rns Say RNIN MDI SURES IDEAS REL BAL

Aa
py)

 

ui

    
  
  

= Sn
: i. agi bw
; 7 2 ae
er od )., y ee hs
. sats ee ne neem
:

hile we stop to rest and
admire the beautiful ‘out yonder

ets enjoy a Chesterfield

hy Sta

*

a ae ee

      

NAS /¢
\ epee

ee _
wt .

  

 

 

