MAGAZINE

LEE UNIVERSITY

 

ee ae
a <0)
#
= <
yo
O é RRs
; & - E
O > :
©
Z 9
2 3
aa
ca
<
— on
™
o”
o
‘a
> ~~
= Ss
pe. ~
= ul
ca =
> |
35
> fe)
2
i)
“ae |
a
e +4
2 ie
> 2

 

 

 

ee a

,
uw?

oe’
we

*

ey
cs

 

a

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

 

William A. Hyman James R. Caskie

1909

Counsellor-at-Law
Attorney-at-Law

100 William Street Woodruff and Ward Peoples Bank Building

New York Be Bet
Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916 Lynchburg, Virginia

Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930
s 8

Attorneys-at-Law

. 3 928 Healey Building
Gibson Witherspoon rae a ieee Ye

1910

Atlanta, Georgia

Attorney-at-Law
y Tucker and Mason

204-208 Lawyers Building @ cma Chitiods
Meridian, Mississippi Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana
Edmund D. Campbell
RB 1918-1922
Attorney-at-Law %
Philip P. Gibson Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell
Attorney-at-Law ee. E. C. Caffrey
Southern Building
Marcum and Gibson Washington, D. C. 1909

First National Bank Building Court House

Huntington, W. Va. Hackensack, N. J.

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 30 N. Michigan Ave.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagerstown,

Maryland.
Dallas, Texas

Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. MeKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Lathem, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.
Louisville, Kentucky

John J. Davis, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of Southern Cali-

fornia, Los Angeles.
St. Louis, Missouri

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

 

 

HE ALUMINI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

Vol. XII FEBRUARY 1937 No. 3
Ed Re. Neae Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor...................... C. Harotp LAucK

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Présidame:.,....:.:...c2aan CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President...H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
SOCTEEALY...........0004. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TVOMRIET 53 hoes. shen ns M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Lewis F. PowE tt, 1929
Ki Wituiams, 1915
H. H. Lartmore, 1896
NorMAN FirzHucGuH, 1898

 

Contents for February 1937

PAGE
Educational Planning at Washington and Lee 3
The Story of Lee Chapel.............. As ck ae
Fire Destroys ‘““New” Theatre........... | 7
Miss McCrum, University Librarian, Writes :....... dD
The Thirty-First Fancy Dress Ball en 1)
A. Recor: cf ActiGiitts ss ockkscsicncsfeccd ce hs cccsseadsscyeueys eee 13
The Signature of Smith............0........ tahini 1S
Twelve Victories, Cae eet oii: -ssihinds pheopcecnies pdt oieanaiin 17
ERG SUOCy OE Berit ee ake ssi ce i Dd ysl 19
A; Leer Frou Mageeee 2. Carter ine ie 20
Chats With Your Friends and Mine........... | 21
Looe Alumii: Associatiten:: NOGGS. «oii iis amet estate 23

Ciaee N@tGBoiss.. 65 Be od dea pea ec areas a aaa BO | 25

he ee « pO!" ¢t
2 ne
Atnanne” © EE nt oo
a age ae oe ese
sha SIS SII ~
re Pees
oo eed Sedaka Tk.
< dbane

t3cane-—- ob
3

ee or aia

——-: - —
, —< .
ainantedon —-\ me ~~ — &
Ane —

eapati ee - i

heh. Se
Bet a tee aoe

-

.

Pe ee te
or
Pa

o Pag ogle.

or two

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Educational Planning at Washington and Lee

(The President's Page)

 

EARLY every year some

the
class at Washington and Lee

member of senior
has the unhappy experience of
finding that he is unable to meet

the requirements for gradua-

|

Editor's Note—This page was written by
Dean R. H. Tucker. He is acting president
in the absence of Dr. Gaines, who 1s vaca-
tioning in Florida by order of his physician.

urally degenerated into a book-
keeping process, in which the
primary object was to piece to-
gether sufficient credits to meet
the requirements for a degree.
There was no correlation. The

 

 

tion primarily because his work ;
was not correctly planned in the earlier stages of his col-
lege career.

This fact alone would explain and justify the recent
action taken by the faculty with a view to providing a
larger measure of educational planning and guidance.
The resolution adopted by the faculty at a meeting last
spring provides that freshman advisers
shall continue in informal contact with
their advisees through the sophomore
year; that in the junior and senior
years educational guidance be supplied
by the department in which the student
elects to pursue his major studies ; and
that each student prior to May 1 in his
sophomore year be required to prepare,
in consultation with his major profes-
sor, a schedule of his studies for the
succeeding two years.

But the need for educational plan-
ning rests upon much broader grounds.
It has arisen in connection with the
far-reaching changes which have re-
cently come in college life. Down to
comparatively recent times there was
no problem of planning or educational
suidance. The curriculum was fixed.
All were served, or subjected to, the
same intellectual menu. The influx of
students has brought varying and di-
objectives. ‘The widening of
knowledge has brought a multiplication of schools and
departments and the introduction into the college cur-
riculum of hundreds of new courses, some of them high-
ly technical, many of them not properly co-ordinated or
even adequately described. The result has been the de-
struction of the essential unity of the college course and
the bewilderment and confusion of the student in his ef-
fort to pick his way through to his degree. With the
elective system in vogue, and no one to aid or explain,
student choices were largely accidental; the system nat-

|

verse

 

Dean Robert H. Tucker

work was not planned toward a
definite objective. The student became so lost in the de-
tails that he often failed to envision the broad objectives
of college education.

Perhaps the greatest single advance made by colleges
in recent years has been in the development of plans to
meet the conditions just described. Practically all the
colleges now attempt to furnish some
sort of systematized educational guid-
ance to the student, and more than half
the colleges have set up special organ-
izations and plans for this purpose. It
can be said to the credit of Washing-
ton and Lee that it has kept pace with
the more progressive institutions in this
respect. Many years ago it introduced
the “group system” as a check upon the
abuses of the elective system and as a
means of providing every student with
at least the background of a liberal ed-
ucation. More recently it has, as every
one knows, introduced a special fresh-
man year, with a well organized sys-
tem of freshman advisers; rearranged
its curricula so as to emphasize intro-
ductory courses in the freshman year,
foundational courses in the sophomore
year, and more highly — specialized
courses in the junior and senior years;
and set a minimum of junior-senior
courses for graduation. Some of the
larger universities have established extensive personnel
organizations covering all major phases of college life.

Fortunately there is no need for a complex organi-
zation at Washington and Lee. Student numbers are lim-
ited. Contacts are already close. In the applied sciences
and in commerce student objectives are sufficiently uni-
form to permit the adoption of reasonably well-rounded
and unified curricula. The degree of bachelor of arts is,
however, and should continue to be, a broad cultural de-

(Continued on page 10)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

——) s = oS
ae bas -* yuteee x
) Pan? LIAS. Ao = as, sem
9 - . a »
Jae at ;

-”

=—-— A —_ ‘Ve , “area An
2 at 7 ' i al ag mii
ae eee (hh —_
et

 

 

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Story of Lee Chapel

By Parke Rouse, Jr., 1937

F ALL the buildings on the Washington and Lee

campus, of all the physical manifestations of the

University’s existence, none is more significant to
sons of the institution than Lee Chapel. For 65 years, since
the chapel was built, freshmen entering school have been
welcomed from its rostrum and seniors there have re-
ceived diplomas. Within its walls presidents have been
inducted, and commencement speeches delivered. Yet its
associations are even more essential to the University
than is its utility. for Lee Chapel is the only building on
the campus
w hich General

oP OPE nie .
Ye 2 Shad ie +x

Edward Valentine, Richmond sculptor and a friend
of the Lees, was chosen by Mrs. Lee to make the statue.
Of the designs he submitted she chose a recumbent figure
suggested by the statue of Louise of Prussia in the mu-
seum at Charlottenburg. Mr. Valentine set to work at his
studio in Richmond, now the Valentine Museum, and
finally on April 1, 1875, announced the work finished.
The statue had taken three years for completion and had
cost $15,000.

Students of Richmond College immediately made ap-
plication for the
‘“privilegeof tak-

 

Robert EK. Lee
actually planned
and obtained
funds for, and
more than any
other structure
represents his
taste and the as-
pirations he had
for Washington
College.

Today Lee
Chapel with its
seating capacity

of 600 can no
longer accom-
modate Wash-

ington and Lee’s
940 students at
one time, but it is still widely used for meetings of the
various departments of the University. Its basement
classrooms have been converted into a Lee museum,
leaving only General Lee’s office intact. It is no longer
the vital unit of campus activity that it used to be, but it
has grown in significance to become a shrine for all those
who revere lee and who admire the traditions of the
Old South.

Valentine’s recumbent statue is probably the most
widely-known feature of the chapel today. After General
Lee’s death a movement was begun to erect a monument
to him at the college where he had spent the closing years
of his life. Generous contributions were made by W. W.
Corcoran, of Washington, Cyrus McCormick, General
J. EK. B. Stuart, General R. D. Lilly, and women’s me-
morial associations throughout the South.

 

View of the chapel interior prior to 1929 when the drapes were removed and gates Af
placed before the recumbent statue

ing charge of
the monument
when it is sent
up to Lexington
and bearing the
expenses of its
transportation.”
The courteous
offer was accept-
ed by officials of
the University,
and the statue
was conveyed by
boat up the
James River Ca-

nal, accompan-
ied by a cortege
Richmond

college students.

The carefully-guarded figure was turned over to
Washington and Lee by the Richmond group and tem-
porarily housed in old North Dormitory, where Tucker
Hall now stands. Immediately plans got underway for a
mausoleum to contain the statue and the remains of
General Lee, which had already been interred in a tomb
in the floor of the museum. General Joseph E. Johnston
was elected president of the Lee Memorial Association
to secure funds for the mausoleum, and on November
29, 1878, General Johnston, assisted by John Randolph
Tucker, laid the cornerstone for the structure.

Funds for the construction gave out in two years,
before even the roof and the interior had been completed.
About $24,000 had already been spent by the association
and $5,000 more was needed. The Memorial Association
agreed to deed the statue and mausoleum over to the Uni-

2]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

versity on condition “that the mausoleum shall be pre-
served as a perpetual place of sepulture for the remains
of General Robert E. Lee and Mrs. Lee and such other
members of their family as it may be the pleasure of the
family to have interred there .. .” The proposal was ac-
cepted and within a year the mausoleum was completed.
The recumbent statue was placed in it, and on June 28,
1883, the unveiling ceremonies were held.

John W. Daniel, Virginia statesman, delivered the
dedicatory address in the absence of Jefferson Davis,
who was unable to attend because of age and ill-health.
More than 10,000 people stood on the University cam-
pus to hear the famous orator deliver a three-hour eulogy.
Among the invited guests were ex-Confederate soldiers,
former cabinet officers of the Confederacy, general offi-
cers of the Confederate army and navy, members of
General Lee’s staff, survivors of the “Stonewall Brigade,”
governors of the Southern states, and state officials of
Virginia.

At the close of the stirring oration a salute was fired
by survivors of the “Rockbridge Artillery” from guns
used by Jackson’s army at the first
Battle of Manassas. Then Miss Julia
Jackson, daughter of “Stonewall,” pull-
ed aside the curtain to reveal the statue
to the public gaze—eight years after its
completion !

The simple dignity of the memorial
won it wide acclaim as soon as it was
unveiled, and today it is recognized as
one of the finest monuments in marble
ever created. The statue surmounts a
marble sarcophagus and represents General Lee asleep
in his tent after a battle. At the foot of the sarcophagus
is the simple inscription :

SSSSs>
Le
—7 |) et

——_ =
“

iF

‘

Rogpert EDWARD LEE

Born
January 19, 1809

Died
October 12, 1870

Today wrought-iron gates separate the mausoleum
from the remainder of the chapel. These were added in
1929 after it was observed that tourists had begun to
efface the marble for “souvenirs.” The gates are never
opened except for memorial services and as a special
courtesy to distinguished visitors.

The chapel contains other artistic masterpieces, in-
cluding the original Peale portraits of Washington and
of Lafayette, originally at Mount Vernon, and Gilbert
Stuart portraits of Washington, Madison, Marshall, and
Jefferson. Other pictures of Washington and Lee’s pres-

——

 

ir PMS CER
a

~ (Ail =
es

idents and benefactors hang in the chapel. Busts of
Washington and of Lee, the gift of Isadore Straus, were
added in 1883.

The Peale portrait of Washington, representing him
in the uniform of a British colonel, is of inestimable
value. It is the only portrait ever made of Washington
as a young man and the only one showing him in British
uniform, which he wore during the period of the French
and Indian Wars. The portrait was painted at Mount
Vernon in 1772, and remained there until after Wash-
ington’s death, when it and the Lafayette portrait were
given to George Washington Parke Custis, of Arlington.
On his death they became the property of his daughter,
Mary Custis, who willed them on her death to her eldest
son, General George Washington Custis' Lee. He in turn
gave them to the University when he succeeded his
father as president.

The Peale Washington was reproduced by the United
States government on a special Washington Sesquicen-
tennial stamp in 1932, through the courtesy of the Uni-
versity, and the original was loaned to the Federal Govy-
ernment for exhibition in Washington
during the same year.

xcept for the pictures and the elec-
tric lighting which have been added, [ee
Chapel is almost as it was in General
Lee's time. The hand-carved speaker's
stand and rosewood furniture that New
Orleans friends gave General Lee are
arranged on the platform just as he had
them. The straight-backed pews, planed
by hand in post-war Lexington, are kept
intact, much to the discomfiture of students and others
who must sit in them.

—
a ae

TH Be

—

In the museum on the basement floor of the chapel
has been assembled the most complete collection of Lee
memorabilia anywhere in the country. Prominently dis-
played there is the family collection of pictures, com-
posed largely of portraits of ancestors of the Lees and
the Washingtons. Dr. George Bolling Lee of New York,
a grandson of General Lee, has loaned the museum a
large number of articles owned by the general, and other
friends of the University contribute interesting items
from time to time.

During the past summer 20,000 people visited the
chapel, but they formed only a small contingent of the
endless procession of visitors that has filed into Lee
Chapel since 1883, when the statue was unveiled. Few
shrines in the nation—the [Lincoln Memorial, Grant's
Tomb, Mount Vernon, and the like—are more impres-
sive than this modest but sincere memorial to Lee, who
was the exemplification of modestry and sincerity, and
whose spirit is Washington and Lee’s greatest heritage.

[ 6 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

Pm .2<*

 

This photograph was taken just before the roof above the stage collapsed

Fire Destroys ‘New’ Theatre

n Fepruary 2, the New, Theatre, recreational

rendezvous for Washington and Lee men during

a period of sixteen years, was gutted by fire. The
flames destroyed all but the walls of the building, and
caused a property damage estimated at $50,000.

Ralph Daves, manager of the New, was in his office
at the time that smoke pouring from the rear base-
ment of the theater was first observed by an employee,
who was returning from the Lyric after doing some
work there. This was shortly before noon. Daves imme-
diately called the fire department, which proved unable
to keep the fire from spreading rapidly throughout the
very inflammable building.

Meantime, Daves devoted his energies, later termed
by many of the students ill-advised, in saving from de-

struction his current film, an opus entitled “God’s Coun-
try and the Woman,” which he exhibited on the after-
noon of the fire in the Lyric.

By two o'clock the building was engulfed in flame,
and the Lexington volunteer firemen, assisted by rein-
forcements from Staunton and Buena Vista, could do
little but confine the fire to the theater. The balcony and
roof collapsed as the ornate tapestries and gingerbread
work fed the flames.

The New was owned by Warner Brothers, who have
not vet released definite figures on the amount of damage
done, or a description of the building which will replace
it. At present, indications are that another theater will
be erected on the same site, and will almost surely be
ready by September.

1

The cAlumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

   
 
 
  

 

 

7 phe Sb h high it?4iff 7 pew ba dy,
VS is iy)
Sa id 4

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

‘

Miss McCrum, University Librarian, Writes:

DEAR Eprror:

You have asked me to write you, quite informally,
what I think our alumni would like to know about the
library. This I am delighted to do as best I can.

Tom Coley, 1935, one time popular assistant in the
library, stopped in Lexington last autumn between his
various stage engagements with the Barter Players, the
Lunts’ company, the Jitney Players, and the rest, to say
hello to us. He wrote back at Christmas time, “I hardly
knew the place,’ and then he went on to express his
satisfaction with what he had seen.

We are glad that he approved the modest changes
that have been made, since all of us could have wished
for more permanent improvements. How-
ever, when the present building was exam-
ined while the reconstruction work was be-
ing planned, it was found that to do a sat-
isfactory job on the library would cost the
lion’s share of the funds available for the
whole campus project. The decision was
therefore made, at the request of the Li-
brary Committee and the Librarian, to do
the absolute minimum of work, in order
to protect the books from the danger of
fire. The problem remains for the future
to provide a convenient and useful build-
ing adapted to modern college teaching. In
the meantime, such changes as appear are
largely the result of rearrangement and represent no
change in architecture in the building.

Two things probably leaped to Tom’s eye in this con-
nection. First, when the stack was made fire-resistant, a
new stack level was put on top of the three already in
use. This meant more room for expansion, and a little
of this room was used for small work tables for students.
On the main floor of the stack, where the bound maga-
zines are kept, the whole end of the wing was left free
for a tiny periodical reading room, with indexes and
journals at hand. Now a student using periodicals for
reference work on a theme has the whole range of the
general magazines in the room with him. And all stu-
dents are admitted without restriction to the stacks.

The other striking change is in the appearance and
atmosphere of the reading room, and the art gallery
above. Battleship linoleum has been laid over the un-
covered wood floor of the reading room, so that the noise
and dust, too, have been reduced to a minimum. Un-
fortunately, nothing can keep the main reading room,

 

Blanche P. McCrum

which should be a place of peace and quiet, from being
the traffic artery for the whole building, since all exits
and entrances lead into it. However, by closing the back
door towards the dormitories, it was possible to test how
much of the confusion in the reading room came from
using it as a sort of passage way to other parts of the
campus. And by putting the newspapers up in_ the
art gallery, the use of the central space under the
dome has been broken up so that no one is crowded.
Serious readers and students who are trying to study
are much more comfortable now; all of us who used
to like to get in out of the rain quickly by way of the
back door, or to glance for an instant at
the funny paper, on our way to impor-
tant engagements, are inconvenienced.
The casual person perhaps drifts into
the building less frequently. If it seems
wise to change back and let the main
reading room become the sort of Grand
Central concourse it used to be, in the
hope that the wayfaring passerby may
remain to read, a very simple turn of
a key or two will do the trick. Before
we do that, however, I hope very much
we can find the money to try a plan
that is simmering in my mind. Perhaps
some of you will give me your reaction
to it. I should like to make the main reading room the
browsing room of the library, and make the browsing
room and balcony upstairs really comfortable studies
with individual desks and armchairs. From the main
reading room I should then like to clear out all stiff
chairs, all large tables, all counters, and replace these
with homelike furniture, a few good leather armchairs,
individual tables, and many bookcases. In these I should
like to put not only our rare and beautiful Patterson
books, and the Joe Ford collection of modern literature,
but also about two thousand tempting and exciting books
to read for pleasure, and the current magazines and
newspapers, which are used in a humanities library large-
ly for browsing anyway. Given this, the passerby could
really have a good time, and the busy student could work
in real seclusion. ‘To get back to what really is, instead
of what might be, you will be glad to know that the art
gallery walls have had three new coats of fresh neutral
colored paint. The picture collection has been entirely
rearranged and overcrowding on the walls has been re-

am |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

lieved by setting up a temporary exhibit of some of the
pictures down stairs in the reading room. White book
shelves have been put in the art gallery, and there you
will find the splendid Carnegie Art Reference Set, a
gift secured by President Gaines from the Carnegie Cor-
poration last year. With the stunning books that con-
stitute this gift came over 2,000 really sumptuous col-
ored prints and photographs, which range in size from
a few inches square to two or more feet. One wall of
the gallery has been kept clear for temporary exhibits
of loan collections of pictures, or for display of our own
prints. Any alumnus planning a trip abroad might do
well to spend a little time in Lexington, where he would
be very cordially welcomed and made free of the books
and photographs that under their present arrangement
are a fine orientation in what to see in Europe. The
present art gallery is now also the art reference library
of the University, and it is, if small, a very sound and
interesting one.

Finally, soap and water have been applied to every
inch of the walls of the library, and we are quite re-
splendently clean. We have also been examined by an
expert librarian, Dean Sydney B. Mitchell, of the grad-
uate School of Librarianship of the University of Cal-
ifornia, whose visit to the campus President Gaines au-
thoried in December. Dean Mitchell’s report and recom-
mendations will be incorporated with a survey of the
book collection now being made by the faculty. And in
April, with all this in hand, we should know what the
library of the future will need to be at Washington and
Lee. In this connection, are there any old students, not
now members of our Friends of the Washington and
Lee Library, who would care to join? This is a group,
as Dr. Shannon, our Library Committee Chairman, has
said, “without fees and without meetings.” All we want
is interest and advice, and a good word spoken when
there is opportunity to interest people with books and
funds to give. Most of our one hundred members are
Washington and Lee men, but like Oliver Twist, “Please,
Sir, I want some more.”

Faithfully yours,
BLANCHE PricHAarp McCrum

January 29, 1937 Tabrarian

 

Educational Planning

(Continued from page 3)
gree, serving the needs of many types of students and
furnishing the training needed in the attainment of var-
ious ends. Here the group studies furnish only the need-
ed general framework and background. The object is to
secure distribution and balance and provide general ed-
ucation to the end of the sophomore year. In the last

two years opportunity is afforded for concentration and
specialization. Here the need is for correlation of courses,
to the end that the student may go deeply enough into
one field of knowledge to master its method and tech-
nique and to express himself as an educated person in
this field. The object of the new plan is to give point and
purpose to the student’s courses and to assist him in ar-
ranging his studies in such a way as to attain definite
objectives.

Procedure under the plan is intended to be simple
and informal. The student is expected prior to May 1
in his sophomore year to choose his major subject, and
then, in consultation with his major professor, to work
out a tentative schedule of studies for the succeeding two
years. This schedule is used at spring registration and
then filed for reference from time to time as the student’s
work develops and for modifications, should his aims
and purposes change.

Particularly there is no thought of relieving.the stu-
dent of the responsibility of making his own decisions.
The student is privileged to choose any combination of
courses that conforms to the catalogue requirements. The
object, however, is to help the student recognize which
choices must be made and to assist him in obtaining the
facts necessary to satisfactory decisions. Choice must be
made in the background of the student’s own tastes,
interests, and capabilities, and in the foreground of his
larger aims and objectives in after life. The instructor
thus plans with the student, and stands in the relation of
guide, counselor and friend. His primary purpose is to
aid the student in dealing with the curriculum, in making
the most of his opportunities, and in realizing the highest
degree his own possibilities.

The faculty has established this plan in the very
earnest hope that it may mark the beginning of a new
chapter in the development of cooperation and friendship
between teachers and students at Washington and Lee.

Acting President

 

Washington's Orchard Lease Found

FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, B.S., 1908, The Plains,
Virginia, an orchard manager, recently found the record
of the lease given by George Washington to George Rus-
sell, of Fauquier county, March 17, 1769.

It gives detailed specifications for the spacing, prun-
ing and fencing of apple and peach trees.

“The methods used by Washington in 1769 are the
same now employed in many instances,” said Mr. Bar-
tenstein.

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Thirty-First Fancy Dress Ball

NCERTAIN weather did nothing to mar the splendor
of the thirty-first annual Fancy Dress Ball held in

By Cow. Ringr, 1937

hung at intervals and for the throng of spectators who
applauded the figure and, after the waltz which conclud-

the Doremus gymnasium on January thirtieth. Though — ed it, swarmed to the floor, packing it from end to end.

many guests
from the west
were unable to
attend due to
the floods, the
fact that anyone
was missing was
not apparent as
the crowd turn-
ed back some
five centuries of
time to the glory
of the Italian
Renaissance, the
theme of the
Ball echoing the
golden days in
Klorence under
Lorenzo de
Medici, known
as Lorenzo the
Magnificent.
Leading the
figure which op-
ened the Ball, as
lorenzo, Was
Norman Iler of
Louisville, Ken-
tucky, with Miss
Mary Ann Hou-
sel of Milton,
Pennsylvania, as
Clarice Orsini,
wife of Loren-
zo. Entering the
gymnasium un-
der the _ south
balcony, the two
led the array of

costumed courtiers, statesmen, and diplomats with their
ladies through the simple but beautiful figure to the mu-
sic of Eddie Duchin and his orchestra. The white-draped
walls of the gymnasium, carrying the insignias of the
Medici, formed a fine background for the red drapes

 

Miss Mary Ann Housel as Clarice Orsini and Norman Iler as
Lorenzo the Magnificent

[ 11 ]

The white and
red wall drapes
with the ceiling’s
hangings of roy-
al blue were al-
together _ pleas-
ing and effec-
tive.

Unfortunate-
ly unable to at-
tend the Ball as
an honored
guest and chap-
erone was Miss
Annie Jo White
who, in 1907,
gave the first
costume party at
Washington and
lee. Through a
direct outgrowth
of that private
affair, the 1937
Fancy Dress
Ball with the
colorful decora-
tions, costumes,
figure, the sharp
flashes from the
photographers,
must have seem-
ed indeed elabo-
rate in compari-
son.

On Thursday
night Hal Kemp
opened the three-
day set with the
Junior Prom,

the figure being led by Chester Shively, Junior Class
president, of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and Miss
Janet Swinehart who attends Wilson College in the same
town. It was noticed that both the Junior Prom and the
Fancy Dress figures were more simple and less tedious

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

than those of former years, a trend commended by par-
ticipants and audience alike.

Replacing Hal Kemp on Friday night was Eddie
Duchin, making his first appearance at Washington and
Lee. Judging by the reception accorded him and his band
this appearance will by no means be his last. On Friday
the Ball was broadcast from 11:30 to 12:00 on the Co-
lumbia network, Cy Young giving a short talk during
the half hour. On Saturday in connection with President
Roosevelt’s Birthday Ball there was a short broadcast.
This dance was the O. D. K. Formal, preceded by the
Pi Alpha Nu dansant that afternoon. }

An unusually large crowd attended the tea dance. As
a rule the afternoon dances are not as heavily attended
as the evening formals, but observers stated that this
particular dansant drew more persons than could be ac-
commodated comfortably.

At this dansant Mr. Duchin announced that he had
asked a student, Sidney Kirsch (’37) of New York, to
sing a number with the orchestra. Those who attended
the 1936 Finals remembered having heard Kirsch sing
at that time. Drawing an enthusiastic response, Kirsch
was called back for several encores, sang again that night.

Officers of Fancy Dress Ball who worked with Nor-
man Iler in the preparations and who were in the figure,
included L. V. Butler of Vicksburg, Mississippi; D. Wil-
kerson of Newport News, Virginia; J. C. White of
Charleston, West Virginia. With Chester Shively at the
Junior Prom was John MacKenzie, class vice-president,
of Portsmouth, Virginia.

The variously costumed students and visitors who
attended the Ball, and the visitors who crowded the bal-
cony to watch, were unanimous that it was a success.
That period of the Italian Renaissance known as “the
Laurentian Age” particularly adapted itself to a Fancy
Dress theme. The costumes of those in the figure were of
this period, and the fact that the hundreds of others at-
tending had costumes of all periods imaginable did not
detract from the riot of color; it rather added to it.

 

The Southern Collegian This Year

On WEpDNEsDAY, January 27, the Fancy Dress issue
of The Southern Collegian made its appearance. ‘This
issue, the second of the year, contained several timely
stories and articles which fitted well with the spirit of
the occasion.

A special Fancy Dress cover drawn for the Collegian
by Miss Alice Fregans Banker of New York met with
particular approval. Appearing in cerise, with the Sou-
thern Collegian lettering in blue superimposed over the
figures of a costumed couple, the effect was striking.

Included in the issue was a story entitled “Dearest

l‘ran—" written by a girl from one of the neighboring
schools concerning a previous Fancy Dress Ball and
what a good time the writer did not have attending it.
Of interest to chaperones attending the dance was an
anonymous article, ‘““Chaperones I Have Known,” which,
though not complimentary to the system of chaperoning,
was appreciated by the men in the student body. Whe-
ther any chaperones read this or not is not known.

Cowl Rider, the editor, included a sketch “in indif-
ferent verse and prose” entitled ‘The Fool’s Night,”
which satirized certain aspects of Fancy Dress Ball and
some of the figures in it, notably the professors. While
the student body seemed amused, it was rumored that
some members of the faculty “viewed with alarm.”

Francis Sugrue, brother of Thomas Sugrue who once
edited The Southern Collegian, for the second time has
a story included. His style and treatment of character
point to a career similar to the one his brother is suc-
cessfully pursuing.

Scattered through the magazine were numerous car-
toons which were acquired from Rob Wagner, editor of
a California weekly. These give a light touch to the mag-
azine which seems to meet the approval of the student
body. It was learned, however, that the supply of car-
toons was now depleted and there were no more forth-
coming, so the fate of the next issue in this respect re-
mains in doubt.

The policy of the magazine this year points toward
less of a purely literary publication and more toward
sophisticated entertainment. The heavy accent on the
literary angle displeasing the subscribers, this year a
happy medium with the accent on entertainment is being
attempted, yet without a complete sacrifice to those in-
terested in literature.

The editorial in the Fancy Dress issue aroused con-
siderable comment from faculty and student alike. Head-
ed “A Question of Maturity,” it dealt with the seeming
lack of maturity on the part of the student body when
faced with practical problems of conduct.

The editorial stated: “College is failing in its treat-
ment of its inmates when it cannot give them some sense
of universal tolerance, deep consideration for others,
ability to think clearly and straight, a respect if not an
appreciation of the things which others hold beautiful,
a sense of personal and public responsibility, an intel-
lectual curiosity, an interest in the contemporary scene
with an understanding of its forces and elements.”

It is unfair, however, to quote portions of the edi-
torial; this was given to point out that while the maga-
zine is interested in entertainment and in giving a means
for literary expression to those interested in writing, it
has a strong editorial policy as well.

Two more issues are slated to appear before June;
one prior to Spring vacation, the other prior to Finals.

[ 12]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Record of Achievement

By Everett O. Amis, 1939

NYONE WHO has had any connections with Forest

Fletcher is not likely to forget him. His old

friends say that he has changed very little since
he has been at Washington and Lee. His healthy com-
plexion, that quiet, calm, modest expression on his face,
his dignified manners, they are all just as they were
when he first came here. ‘The only difference is that he 1s
somewhat heavier and his curly hair 1s
beginning to turn gray, two features
which are really becoming to him. So
in twenty-three years of service to
Washington and Lee as a member of
the faculty and coaching staff, he is the
same Forest Fletcher he always was.

It is very unfortunate that out of
the large number of people who know
Mr. Fletcher, there are only a few who
know a great deal about him. You can-
not learn anything if you wait for him
to tell you. It isn’t in his quiet nature
to do that. Either you must press him
yourself, or you must talk with some
of his more intimate friends.

He was born in Lincoln, Nebraska,
but moved to Chicago while still a
small boy. It was there that he received
his earliest education and became a
close friend of the late Knute Rockne,
world famous football coach. Knute
and he belonged to the same gang in
Chicago, he said. “One of the gangs
2. C.—Before Capone,” as Rockne used to put it. It was
there, also, that young Fletcher became interested in
athletics and in Notre Dame, whose track team was not
excelled at that time. In 1908 he entered that institution,
and it was through his influence that Rockne followed
his example soon afterwards, although he insists until
this day that it was more the influence of “the gang”’
than his own.

The

Fletcher entered college, and the first year he was there

term “freshman rules” was unknown when
he made the varsity track team. The record set by him
in the four years he attended Notre Dame is one of the
most enviable ever held by a track man. During his bril-
liant career he held three world. records in low hurdles,
having that distinction in the 40-yard, 50-yard, and 60-

yard divisions. He also set the A. A. U. record in the 40-

 

Forest Fletcher

yard and 50-yard high hurdles, and held the highest
mark for high jumping in the university. In 1912 he
served as captain of his track squad and that year made
the United States Olympic team. He never lost a single
low hurdle race in his life, and was high point man for
the four years he was a member of the squad. This ag-
gregation, incidentally, did not lose a single meet while
he was there.

As all great athletes are supposed
to have their “biggest thrill,” I inquir-
ed what he considered as his. He was
somewhat confused and even a little
embarrassed, so with the idea of assist-
ing him I said, “I imagine breaking
your first world record must have been
quite a thrill. Would you say that it was
your greatest?’ He answered me slow-
ly, obviously searching his memory for
that one outstanding thrill. ““No,”’ he
said, “breaking my first world record
had no particular significance. I sup-
pose when I made the Olympic team in
1912 | felt that | had accomplished
more in athletics than I ever had before.

“You see, there was more to it than
just having the honor of making the
team. I had several brothers who had
all been athletically inclined and had
distinguished themselves in one sport
or another. I was a pretty scrawny kid
when I was small,” he laughed, “believe
it or not, and one day I overheard a relative of mine tell-
ing my father that there was one member of the family
who would never amount to anything in athletics. Of
course, he had reference to me. I was let down some-
what, but it made me determined to show him someday
that he was wrong.” From then on, the “scrawny lad”
took advantage of every opportunity to develop into an
athlete in order to explode his kinsman’s theory. For the
ordinary man, the record he established would have suf-
ficed, but not for Forest Fletcher. “Finally,” he said,
“the day came when I was to try out for the Olympics.
| didn’t know it then, but this relative of mine was in
the stands, and when the meet was over, he came down
onto the field to congratulate me. I told him then that I
had him to thank for making the team. Of course, he
had long ago forgotten his remark, but I hadn't, and |

[ 13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

suppose that was the greatest thrill I ever received from
college athletics.”

Between the time of his graduation and his first year
as a professor at Washington and Lee, Forest Fletcher
taught mathematics and coached all branches of high
school teams. During the summers he taught in the
American College of Physical Education at Chicago.
It was in the fall of 1914 that he first came to Washing-
ton and Lee as a basketball coach and professor of phy-
sical education. The basketball tutoring lasted only a
year, however, and his release from that duty gave him
an opportunity to begin building up the department of
which he is the head today. When the United States en-
tered the World War, Fletcher was in charge of the
Washington and Lee ambulance unit, which was com-
posed solely of men from this university. Twice the unit
as a whole was decorated, and Fletcher, himself, was
also cited. It was with pleasure, however, that he return-
ed to America right after the war. When questioned
about what he did when he returned, he said, “The big-
gest thing that ever happened to me in my life happened
right after the war. That’s when | was married.” You
just couldn’t help admiring the way he said that. His
family is the one thing of which he is most proud. His
wife is the former Miss Laura Powell Tucker, daughter
of Harry St. George Tucker, who was for so many years
a member of Congress, and for whose father Tucker
Hall was named. They have three children, Rosa, Patsy,
and Forest, Jr., and have a home on Forest Hill in Lex-
ington.

Mr. Fletcher, despite his brilliant athletic career be-
fore he came to Washington and Lee, has done a great
amount of work in building up the physical education
department here and in producing winning track teams.
He is past president of the Southern Conference, hav-
ing served in that capacity for two years, and has
figured prominently in the majority of the Confer-
ence’s most important decisions. He has been criti-
cized severely in the past two years for his influence in
eliminating boxing at Washington and Lee, and his pro-
posal to abolish it entirely, but the sportsmanship ex-
posed itself when he explained his stand on this ques-
tion. “The attempt to incapacitate a man rather than to
outplay or outwit him is not in keeping with the ethics
of college sports.” The recent death of a Virginia Mili-
tary Institute boxer whose next was broken in a ring
bout has quieted down the criticisms which have been
coming his way. He firmly believes that the sport will
be discontinued sometime in the near future.

Twenty-three years is a long time to serve as a pro-
fessor in one university, and when some of the older
alumni compare the present state of affairs with the con-
ditions which existed in their time, they realize that it
has been the result of much hard work. At present he is

working on a new method of teaching physical educa-
tion, ‘‘to make it a more practical course,” and he is try-
ing to develop further, all intramural sports. His track
teams have always given good accounts, especially in
cross country. Some of the great athletes coached by him
have been Lane Howard, Cy Young, Birdie Robbins,
Art Hinkle, Bill Davis, Bill Sandifer, Lee Williams, Ed
Backus, Bill Schuhle, and Dick Duna)j.

He is greatly interested in the future development
of athletics at Washington and Lee, and wishes it were
possible for every man in the University to participate
in intramural sports. He is continually working for the
betterment of the department, and should he continue to
accomplish things at the same rate he has during his first
twenty-three years here, there is no doubt but that the
physical education department at Washington and Lee
will be outstanding among all others of its kind.

 

Alumni Involved in Transaction

Atlanta, Ga., November 7, 1936

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia ;

Dear Dr. Gaines:

As the local attorney for Sinclair Refining Company,
I have just recently closed a lease for my client, with a
resident of Decatur, Georgia. The transaction was un-
usually interesting to me, because of the number of
Washington and Lee men involved.

I examined and brought down to date an abstract of
title originally prepared by Mr. Roger B. Jones, of the
class of 1923, an attorney in the office of the lessee. The
lessor was represented by her business agent, Mr. Henry
E. Peeples, of the class of 1913, who likewise witnessed
the execution of the lease with me. I discovered it would
be necessary to procure a release from a mortgage from
Washington and Lee University, and I took up the mat-
ter with Mr. Walter McElreath, of the class of 1896,
who is your local attorney. After some very pleasant
correspondence between us, Mr. Paul M. Penick, of the
class of 1896, signed the release for the University. At
one time in the past, the property was owned by Mr.
Robert A. Rogers, of the class of 1876, whom I likewise
represent and to whom I went for facts pertaining to the
title. Incidentally, Mr. Rogers must surely be the oldest
living graduate.

It is needless to say that although the transaction was
somewhat complicated, under these circumstances the
closing was decidedly pleasant.

Cordially,

ALEX M. Hirz, 1914

[ 14 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Signature of Smith

By Ropert NicHorson, 1939

N THE FIRST DECADE of this century an energetic
and ambitious youngster in his later teens came to
Washington and Lee University with the reputa-
tion of being a great all-round athlete. Baseball was his
favorite sport, and his best one, but he played football too.

His name? Richard A. Smith, “Dick” for short and
by personal preference. He was stocky and sturdy and
was everlastingly at the the thing which claimed his at-
tention. in the classroom and on the
athletic field young Smith became a
leader, proving himself a two-fold find
as a student.

Because of his ability and wizardry
on the diamond, Smith soon became
the outstanding member and captain of
of the General nine. He was headed
in the direction of Washington and
lee men whose names had been cut
on the school’s unofficial roll of ath-
letic honor.

If his fellow students, like pro-
phetic astrologers, could have forseen
a quarter of a century into the future,
they would have expected to find some
imposing commercial structure as a
mark of the initiative and achieve-
ments of Richard A. Smith. And they
would have been logical in their ex-
pectations.

Smith’s life, however, took a sud-
den turn in another direction. The pro-
phetic astrologers were in time to see,
in place of a great commercial structure, a magnificent
bridge connecting the separated units of a modern ath-
letic plant—a plant for the physical development of
young Americans at Washington and Lee.

For the young man with ambition and energy also
was controlled by a love for boys and a desire to help
boys get ahead. Accordingly he forsook his commercial
aspirations and became a mathematics teacher and coach
at Fishburne Military Academy from whence he had
come to I.exington as an awkward youngster. At Fish-
burne he was Captain Smith, which was later changed
to “Captain Dick” in the informalities of civil life. And
“Captain Dick” it has remained ever since.

His return to Washington and Lee was in 1919,
when he was called to reorganize the athletic department.

 

es oe
igh phe

Richard A. Smith

As director of athletics, he soon had the General teams
functioning like well-oiled gears. But his activities were
not only confined to directing athletics. He also entered
the coaching field.

First as assistant coach in football, later as head
coach of baseball and basketball, Captain Dick won en-
viable honors as his teams rolled up long strings of vic-
tories. Particularly in baseball—which Smith has always
loved and which he still coaches—has
he rung up a record. Only one of his
teams has lost more games than they
have won.

The year 1937 marks the comple-
tion of nearly twenty years of service
for Captain Dick as director of ath-
letics at Washington and Lee. It also
commemorates the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of the graduation of one of
Washington and Lee’s most respected
alumni in the person of Richard A.
Smith.

This is indeed a fitting year to sur-
vey the assets accruing to Washington
and Lee students and alumni from the
investment of Smith’s magic powers
in the development of youth.

It is fundamental to note that
Smith has built and is building for
the average boy. He does not aspire
to direct a group of professional ath-
letes, who are incidentally students.
Smith wants to teach healthy Ameri-
can youths to be physically strong and proficient and to
give them the moral background of competitive amateur
sports.

Expansion and demand e necessary changes and
additions in any original program. New sports been
added to take care of an increasing num of boys.
With the co-operation of the physical education depart-
ment of the University, a course in coaching and ad-
vanced hygiene has been created so that Smith could
send his proteges to the four corners of the land. And an
intramural program for less skilled boys has been pro-
moted.

As product of the training have gone forth from
Washington and Lee thousands of students who have
served in innumerable professions and trades with effi-

4

7-5 oe

[ 15 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ciency, stamina, and “guts,” which they acquired in their
student days under the athletic system of Captain Dick
Smith.

Smith also gave his program physical being in the
construction of a new stadium on Wilson Field and a
long magnificent footbridge, which today gracefully
arches over Woods Creek Valley between Doremus
gymnasium and Wilson Field, two of the units in the
General’s athletic plant.

These accomplishments stand as an enduring mon-
ument to Smith of whom it may be said: ““He has helped
twenty thousand youths to a better physical development
and provided the facilities for the development of as
many more.”

Twenty years from now the work of Captain Dick
in reorganizing the Washington and Lee athletic de-
partment will probably appear impossible of being the
efforts of one man. Observers will say it is incredible
that a single individual should alone bring such efficiency
and organization out of the chaos and confusion of 1919
in so short a time.

To Captain Dick there still remains work to be done.
Improvements of the present athletic structure, the con-
struction of a new field house, the levelling of supple-
mentary athletic fields, and a still better chance for the
Washington and Lee student to get healthy exercise,
will always be his never fully satisfied desire.

His zeal and courage for progress are contagious.
In Lexington an eagerness in service of him is every-
where in evidence—on his teams and in his office. All
over the country his leadership has its response in the
objectives of men who were trained to love of courage,
of hard fair play, and of physical well being by Captain
Dick. In these things is the signature of Smith.

 

George Lynn,1930, Makes Debut

GEORGE Lynn, 1930, Phi Kappa Sigma, recently
made his debut in “Sinner Take All,” a Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer production. Mr. Lynn is a native of Cumberland,
Maryland. He was graduated from Shenandoah Military
Academy, then attended Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, before going to Pasadena, California, three years
ago. There he was given a contract with the Pasadena
Community Play House, where scouts from M-G-M
studios watched his acting for more than a year. He
later was given a contract. Aside from his current pic-
ture, Lynn is now being starred in “Torture Money”
soon to be released by Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer.

“Sinner Take All” was shown at the New Theatre
in Lexington on February Ist and created much inter-
est here.

Old George Rating

OLp GEORGE is back! Again he stands on top of
Washington Hall surveying the scene which was first
spread before his eyes years ago. Freshmen returning
from Christmas vacation were amazed to see the tall
statue, resplendent with fresh white paint, standing in
its accustomed place. The old students, recognizing the
familiar figure, said simply, “Well, Old George is back.”
Last spring, when reconstruction work was begun on
Washington Hall, George was taken down to spend his
days until recently collecting dust in the vault in the
law building.

As the recumbent statue of General Lee is ever re-
mindful of the great organizer who bequeathed to Wash-
ington and Lee for all time the traditions of courtesy,
honor, and patriotism, so is the white carved figure of
George Washington reminiscent of our first benefactor
who saw fit to aid a small, struggling Liberty Hall Acad-
emy with a gift of $50,000.

George Washington feels at home today. lor more
than 112 years he has served as an ornament to the bell
tower of Washington Hall and as a venerated landmark
to the students of the University and the residents of
Lexington. George first saw life as a tree in a Rock-
bridge county forest, near Natural Bridge. In 1824 the
tree was cut down and carved by a Lexington wood-
carver into a likeness of the ‘Father of our country.”

It might be imagined that a century of rain and
snow and ice would have had their effect on Old George.
tlowever, hundreds of coats of lead paint have protected
him through the years. Each Spring applications of vivid-
hued paint have been applied by celebrating freshmen
on the day when freshmen rules, imposed on them by
upperclassmen, were lifted. Each Spring the University
has followed up the freshmen with white paint to cover
the variegated mantle given George by the students.

Old George, we welcome you back.

—R. P. A.

 

Holt Announces Combine

PurcHase of the Fargason Co., wholesale grocery
firm, by Oliver-Finnie Co., was announced in The Com-
mercial Appeal, Memphis, January 5th, by R. Maynard
Holt, A. B., 1927, president and general manager of the
latter concern.

Signing of the contract by Mr. Holt and S. M. Ken-
nedy, president and general manager of the Fargason
firm, combined two of the oldest business establishments
in Memphis. William E. Holt, Jr., B.S., 1923, is vice-
president of the company.

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Twelve Victories, One Defeat

By Wiiitam B. BacBEY

HE HEADING of this record of the activities of the

in varsity winter sports teams at Washington and
Lee tells the tale of their successes thus far. The basket-
ball team, the pride of the University this season, seems
to be headed for conference honors despite a falling off
in their play in the last few games since examinations
and Fancy Dress. The basketeers have

ning twenty-seven to twenty-six. Norman Iler, captain
of the Washington and Lee team, led the scoring for
the night.

sill Ellis’ freshman team has some promising play-
ers on it who will be needed to take the places of Norman
Her and Fielden Woodward on next year’s varsity. Ron-
nie ‘Thompson, who is from the home

 

swept through their regular schedule
with the loss of only a single game.
Unfortunately the Generals had to go
to New York, where they played Long
Island University in Madison Square
Garden, with a team weakened by ill-
ness. Bob Spessard, their six-foot sev-
en-inch center, had to be left in the
hospital at Lexington with a severe
influenza, and Bill
regular forward, who was shifted to

case of Borries,
center in the place of Spessard, was
also so ill the night of the game that
he collapsed before the end and had
to be removed from the game. All of
you who had the opportunity to read
the account of the game in the New
York papers know that the spirit of
the Generals made a decidedly favor-
able impression on the New York
sports writers though the game was
lost by a score of forty-four to
twenty-eight. It would be interesting
to see what the Generals would do if
given the opportunity of playing a re-
turn game with their regular lineup

 

Norman Iler,
intact.

At present the basketball team is leading both the
state and conference circuits, with a clean record in both.
The hardest conference opponents are yet to be met, how-
ever. Between now and the twenty-seventh of the month
the Generals will have to play Duke and Richmond twice,
and Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, and William
and Mary.

Washington and Lee's closest contest on the court
this season was their game with North Carolina State
on February 5, which, because of examinations, was their
first game in two weeks. With the score tied at twenty-
four-all at the end of the regular playing time, the game
went into an overtime period, with the Generals win-

 

captain, guard

town of Joe Pette, captain of the bas-
ketball team last year and an all-Sou-
thern forward, looks as if he will de-
velop into as valuable a player as Joe
was in his years on the varsity. Arm-
strong, Reinartz, Hobson and Hum-
phreys are others on the frosh squad
who will make their bid for varsity
positions next year. Scholastic work
caught a number of the freshman
players at the end of the first semester
and weakened the team considerably,
but they will have made up their defi-
ciencies by the end of the present se-
mester and will be ready for the var-
sity next winter.

Coach Mathis’ wrestling squad,
conference champions last year, will
have no opportunity to win the title
outright this year since the wrestling
tournament was dropped at the meet-
ing of representatives of the different
member schools recently, but if they
win their next meet on February 13
with V. P. I., they will at least be able
to claim a share of the title. The mat-
men have a record of four straight
victories this season, included among them a thirty-two
to nothing win over the team of Duke university. On
February 27 the wrestlers will meet the team of Prince-
ton University at Princeton, New Jersey.

The freshman wrestlers by their 20 1-2 to 9 1-2 vic-
tory over Woodberry Forest February 3, registered their
thirty-third consecutive victory. The frosh grapplers
have not lost a meet since 1928. Broome, Buxton, War-
ner, Farrier. and Braun have been looking especially
eood in their work in the three meets the freshmen have
had so far this season.

Cy Twombly’s swimming team seems to be a better
balanced team than the squad which won the conference

 

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

Bob Spessard, center

title last season. With Captain Charles
Brasher taking two first places, the
swimmers defeated the University of
Virginia at Charlottesville February 6
by a score of 65 to 22. It was the first
meet of the season for the tankmen,
and they swept through the meet tak-
ing all first places.

Washington and Lee looks for
three conference crowns this season,
one for each of its winter sports
teams. The basketball team, finalists
in the last two tournaments at Raleigh,
hopes to come through with the title
this year. The wrestlers, title-holders
from last year, hope to repeat this year
or at least share the title with V. M. I.
should the Keydets come through with

victories over all their conference oppo-
nents. The swimming team, also title-hold-
ers last year, hopes to repeat this season.

In addition to the regular activities of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fielden Woodward, guard (top)
Kit Carson, forward

[ 18 |

 

 

 

 

 

Bill Borries, forward

the athletic teams of the University,
on March 11, 12, and 13 the annual
South Atlantic basketball tournament
will be held at Washington and Lee
in which sixteen leading prep and
high school teams from states in the
South Atlantic area will be invited to
compete. The tournament was not held
last year because of the finals of the
national collegiate wrestling tourna-
ment which were held here.

 

3ULLETIN: Since this article
was written Washington and Lee
dropped a thrilling game to Duke
at Durham by a score of 37-35.
North Carolina
termed the game the best seen in

sports writers

 

the state in years. Then the Gen-
erals on February 11 decisively
defeated Richmond 37-20.

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Story of Seven Years

HEN Coach ilson’s assistant announced at the

annual football banquet held last December that
he had decided not to come back to Washington and Lee
next year but was set on going into law work, Wash-
ington and Lee lost a man whose record of achievement
is unique in the annals of the University, for Amos Bolen
has made history during the seven years that he has
been at Washington and Lee.

3olen came to Washington and
Lee from Ashland, Kentucky, in 1930
and was not long in achieving distinc-
tion in athletic and academic fields.
The story of his seven years at Lex-
ington is almost the record of one
honor after another. First, perhaps,
should come his record as an athlete
for he has been connected with the
football team as player and as coach
each of the seven years that he has at-
tended the University. He broke into
the lineup at left guard in his sopho-
more year and held down that position
regularly during his three years on the
varsity. There is little doubt about his
football ability for each of the years
he played on the varsity he was named
on the all-Virginia mythical eleven. In
1933 he captained the Generals and
was selected on the all-Southern and all-South Atlantic
elevens and also received honorable mention as an all-
American.

In 1934 when Bolen had graduated from the aca-
demic school and had entered the Law School, football
was still one of his chief interests for in that and the
following year he coached Washington and Lee's fresh-
man squad. This past season Bolen was Coach Tilson’s
assistant with the varsity and Tilson had nothing but
praise for his loyalty and ability. In Coach Tilson’s opin-
ion, Bolen would have made a fine coach if he had chosen
that as his work, but Tilson can, no doubt, understand
his assistant’s decision for he holds a degree from the
Washington and I,ee law school as will Bolen in June.

In addition to football, Bolen was also a wrestler,
working in the heavyweight and 175-pound classes in
1932 and 1933.

Athletic activities usually require so much of a par-
ticipant’s time that it is somewhat unusual for an athlete

 

Amos Bolen

to be outstanding in academic work. However, when
Jolen received his diploma in 1934 he was valedictorian
of his class, graduated magna cum laude and was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa. At commencement he was awarded
the Algernon Sidney Sullivan medallion, a “memorial
established by the Southern Society of New York in
honor of its first president,” and “awarded each year by
Washington and University to
that student in the graduating class

Lee

who excels in high ideals of living, in
spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others.”

A leader on the campus, Bolen has
those qualities of leadership which
Washington and Lee tries to instill
into its graduates. Last year Amos was
president of the student body and had
one of the most trying tasks of his
years at the University when he con-
ducted the mock Republican conven-
tion held last year. All alumni who
have been at Washington and Lee in
an election year and have taken part
in a student mock convention know
how thoroughly the students throw
themselves into the spirit of the con-
vention. One thing which Bolen points
to with pride as accomplished during
his term at the head of the student body is the elimina-
tion of freshman hazing which went into effect this year
and has worked successfully. In addition to his leader-
ship of the students, Bolen has been president of the
Monogram Club since 1933, was president of the Ath-
letic Council during 1933-1934, and is at present head
of Omicron Delta Kappa and Sigma.

 

Eugene White New Assistant

EuceNéE Horton Wuirs, an alumnus of Washing-
ton and Lee and for the past eight years head football
and baseball coach at Stephen F. Austin State Teachers
College, Nacogdoches, ‘Texas, has been appointed as-
sistant football coach here for next year. White will as-
sist Coach “Tex” ‘Tilson chiefly as backfield coach and
may study part-time in the law school. He will teach no
gym classes.

[ 19 |

The cAlumni M dgazine, Washin gton and Lee University

A Letter From Richard P. Carter

Kpiror’s NotE——The following letter from Dick Car-
ter, 1928, former managing editor of The Alwmni Mag-
azine, is so good that we have decided to publish it. It
is a coincidence that at the time this letter was received
mentioning an article about Lee Chapel, we had one al-
ready “in type’ for this issue. Carter has been on leave
of absence from the University during the present ses-
sion. Last session he was director of the News Bureau
and instructor in Journalism.

New York, February 1, 1937
Dear Harold:

When a newspaperman, always subjected to long
hours and hard work, sits down to a typewriter after
deadline and becomes idealistic and enthusiastic, there
must be a reason. ‘The reason in this particular case is
The Alunni Magazine and our Alumni Association in
general.

I wish there were some way to tell you just what it
means to have news of the campus, but [ doubt whether
I could succeed in doing that when so many others have
tried, often with good effect. But after editing The
Alumni Magazine for two years, then being suddenly
switched over to the “receiving end,” I can’t keep quiet.

You know, there is something about our entire alum-
ni setup that keeps the University close to those away
from the campus. I had not been here two weeks before
Kid Lee dropped in one day to say hello and get some
first hand news of things at Washington and Lee. | am
only sorry that my work here has been so exacting that
[ have not had time to attend any of the luncheons—
but before me now is a card from Ed Lee announcing
the monthly luncheon of New York alumni this week,
and unless something happens I intend to go to this one.

The Ohio valley flood has kept me pretty busy ever
since it started. Much of my time has been spent as the
South wire editor here, and the problem of breaking up
the news from all over the world and sending it South
is a fascinating one. I have done less writing than editing,
but one of the first writing assignments here was the
daily digest of the Luciano case last May—you remem-
ber that case, I’m sure.

I’ve also worked here on what we call the general
desk, which is the focal point of all Associated Press
news responsibility. And I’ve filed all the wires—West,
East, City, and South.

Next week, however, I am moving over to the cable
desk—in other words, the foreign department. It prom-
ises to be even more interesting and informative than
the domestic work, since it will call for minute study of
European and other foreign affairs.

So, in all this hurrying about, is there any wonder
that I look for and enjoy The Alumni Magazine? 1 think

you are doing a fine job with it—so fine that | wonder
whether Cy will ever want me to edit it again!

Which reminds me that | talked with Cy when he
was here for Washington and Lee’s basketball debut at
Madison Square Garden last month. | had an assign-
ment that kept me from the game (but | did manage to
see the football game at West Point last fall). Which
also reminds me that our teams have made excellent im-
pressions on the sports writers in this town. ‘There were
more sports writers at the basketball game than at the
football game, and | have heard it said by those who
know that we would have won from Long Island if we
had been at full strength. That’s not idealism, that’s pure
logical reasoning.

How did you ever get Cy around to writing a column
for the Magazine? ‘That’s one of the best features of the
year, and | hope he keeps it up.

I especially liked your cover on the football issue of
the Magazine last fall. It reminded me of the one we ran
a couple of years ago, through the courtesy of one of the
Washington papers. Remember that one?

How about a good modernized story on Lee Chapel
for an early issue? Of course, we’ve had stories and
stories about the Chapel, but it seems to me you could
have someone write it around this angle—*Washington
and Lee’s physical set-up has been changed, but at heart
it’s the same University, and the heart of the University
is Lee Chapel.” You get the idea? Something to weave
the old and the new together, bringing out that the spirit
of the institution lingers stronger than ever in a new en-
vironment. It would be a difficult story to write, but
why not have one of the journalism students attempt it?

I also think alumni would be interested in a sort of
‘chronological story” of the University’s development,
starting with the earliest date in the school’s history,
and giving highlights of each year down to the present.
That also would be difficult, but it would be a valuable
contribution to the historical papers of the University.
You would need only a few sentences to point out the
essential facts connected with each date.

I still think the class notes constitute one of the most
interesting and valuable angles of the Magazine.

A strange thing happened a few nights ago—I was
crossing Broadway at 43rd street when someone sidled
up and clutched my arm, and called me by name. It was
a boy who was a freshman with me in 1923—and the
crazy part of the whole story is that I hadn’t seen him
since 1923, and it had to be in the midst of ten million
people that we met again. Just goes to show Washington
and [ee men are everywhere.

I’ve rambled on with this until you must be bored.
Keep up the good work with the Magazine.

Sincere regards,

Dick

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Younc, Alumni Secretary

wis | had time to acknowledge by letter the

many beautiful Christmas cards received at this

office from our alumni friends, but at this partic-
ular time of the year we are very busy compiling class
lists and other material for our Class Agents for their
annual round of letters to thousands of alumni.

These cards have come from. all
parts of the country and are deeply
appreciated. The first one I see is from
Dick Carter, who is now in New York
and here is

 

with the Associated Press
one from Lambert of
Another from the Delta, from Lyon
(“Count”) Brandon, with his picture
in a “40 and 8” outfit. Johnny Morrison

sev. Arkansas.

did not forget us. Toad Snively’s card
is quite unique. It carries a picture of
‘Beau's Tommy,” one of his thorough-
the
hunting was any better in Maryland
than it was in Virginia this year. If it

bred setters. I am wondering if

wasn’t, ‘Toad’s dogs did not see much
action.

One of our most appreciated cards
was from our good friend Ek. W. Wil-
liams, Class of ’69, of Pine Bluff, Ark.
He signs his card “An Old General Lee
soy.”’ He says he is now eighty-six and
| know he is still very much interested
in Washington and Lee.

Many of our cards are from the younger genera-
tion—Charlie Smith of Jacksonville, Lewis Martin of
Richmond, Joe Pette from Long Island, Everett Tucker,
Jr., also from Askansas, Tony Young, who I am sure
has been grappling with the flood in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. ‘Tom Bolen remembered us. Tom’s card also car-
ries a dog. It seems the boys were putting on the dog
this Christmas. Our largest Christmas card was from
Karl Smith, who is now manager of the Elmhurst Inn,
and here is one from Roy Nichols who is now residing
in Norfolk. John Stannard in Chattanooga remembered
us, and from Michigan comes one from Chan Gordon.
Back to Baltimore and our good friends Johnny Mead
and Jim Milbourne send very beautiful cards. A very
red and Christmassy card from Pittsburgh with the name
of Chuck Robinson. Junius Powell and Clarence Sager
in New York remembered us. Jerry Framptom in Fed-

 

eralsburg, Maryland, sends us a very attractive card.
Our good friend Walter McDonald sends his usual at-
tractive card. Of course Walter has a little something
on the rest of us when it comes to things of this kind, as
he is in the printing and engraving business in Cincinnati.

From Birmingham Henry Johnston sends us one with
a caricature of himself dressed as Santa
Claus. His pack is a bag of golf clubs
and he is broadcasting with his hands
full of the newspapers with which he
is connected.

Harry Carmichael remembered us,
as always, as did many others which
space forbids comment on—among
them Julian Black, Howard Busold,
Otis Howe, Pat Patterson, Jim Faulk-
ner, ‘l‘om Glasgow, Earl Tilson and Dan
(;holson.

eS

Since my last chat with our sub-
scribers I have attended several alumni
meetings. Frank Gilliam and I made a
trip to Birmingham. We came close to
not getting to this meeting when the
train left us in Chattanooga. We had
been on the train all night and when we
were informed that we had a wait of
fifteen minutes, got off the train for a
walk and a little fresh air. It turned out
that the train only stopped ten minutes
and of course left us. Fortunately there was a local leav-
ing Chattanooga for Birmingham later in the day which
we got and arrived in time for the meeting. Our bags,
coats and hats stayed on the train, but after many wires
to our friends in Birmingham and the station master,
they were taken care of and we felt quite good on arrival
to know that we still had some baggage.

The Birmingham alumni took care of us in a big
way, as they do all representatives from the University.
Walter Hood and Billy Hoge had tickets for the foot-
ball game in the afternoon. The meeting was_ held
that night. I spent the next day playing golf with our
good friends Mark Hanna and Sorsby Jemison. Not
being a golf bug, and having never been to Birmingham,
Frank took in the sights of the city with Bestor Brown.
We are very strong for our Birmingham crowd. They
are all interested in what is going on here on the campus,

[ 21 ]

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and have sent us many good boys. We are looking for
Mark's oldest son next fall, and he will have three to

follow.
x ok x

| could take up this whole column telling of my trip
to Memphis, Tenn., for an alumni meeting which was
held December 4th, honoring our very good alumnus
John Harvey Sorrells, Executive Editor of the Scripps-
Howard newspapers, also President of the Memphis
Commercial Appeal, “The South’s Greatest Newspa-
per’ —so they say. I did not miss any connections en
route, but I was having such a good time that I nearly
missed my train returning. Thanks to Mr. and Mrs.
George Powers, I made it. George is president of our
Memphis Association and doing a swell job of it. As
for the meeting it was one of the best I have ever at-
tended. There were sixty-five present. A list of them ap-
pears elsewhere in this issue.

It so happens that the backfield of our 1916 football
team was well represented at this meeting. Galla Pax-
ton, whom lots of you will remember as a dashing back,
came up from Greenville. Harry Adams, who, by the
way, is now Judge Adams, was on hand, and of course
there was that plunging fullback, J. Sorrells.

J. T. Morgan, with his two fine sons, Allan and Gus,
were there. This is a fine representation of a Washington
and Lee family. J. T., Jr., would have been there I am
sure, had he been in town.

Dr. Cooper was up from Holly Springs, Miss. Ar-
kansas was well represented at the meeting in the per-
sons of Critt Curry, C. B. Driver and Bev Lambert. I
was mighty happy to see our good friend Strut Sanford
of the Class of °15. It was the first time our paths had
crossed since Strut graduated.

Of course no Memphis meeting would be complete
without George Faison and the Holt brothers, Maynard
and Bill. Boots Edmundson never misses a chance to be
on hand for any kind of Washington and Lee gather-
ing—I am speaking of J. Simms, attorney-at-law. Dolph
Clark served on the committee of arrangements and
George Powers tells me, did a swell job, as did Kenneth
Kimbrough and several others.

Cee

The interest and enthusiasm of our alumni in Tide-
water, Virginia, is shown by the large increase in stu-
dents from that territory in recent years. I went to Nor-
folk in the late fall for the meeting of this group and
found them to be as enthusiastic as ever. Beef Hoffman
and Leonard Davis put on the show and had everything
well in hand. Our good friend Major Tyler was present
and even though he has been out of school for forty
years he is always ready to talk Washington and Lee.
His son Jimmie is a recent graduate and Stockton Heth,

Jr., is in his sophomore year. I might mention that Jim-
mie paid us a short visit recently with his bride.

Viv Page-—-I am sure those of you who were in
school from ‘12 to ’16 remember Viv—was present and
wasn't talking politics. | mention this as Viv is our State
Senator and one of the leading political lights in the
State of Virginia. He also has a boy who is a sophomore
here.

The Oasts were there in numbers—Rooster, Ed, and
Alden. I was glad to see Buck Spindle on hand—his first
appearance at a meeting in quite a while. To his friends
who have not seen him in some time—you can now ad-
dress him as Judge.

The always hospitable Frank Dusch took quite a
hand in the meeting. Frank has a young son who is
headed this way before many years.

One of the University’s best friends in Norfolk is
Bill Cox, Sports Editor of The Virginian Pilot. Bill
spent only one year with us in the early twenties, finish-
ing his education at North Carolina, but you can bet he
gives us a break in his sheet whenever possible. He has
two hobbies—talking sports and his family. Three swell
children, two boys and a girl, the girl who is the latest
addition, is just three months old. If he wants to be im-
partial between his two alma maters we should at least
get one of the boys at Washington and Lee.

x x x

On my return from Birmingham | had just one day
in I,exington to catch up with things here in the office
and then grab my moving picture outfit and start for
Baltimore. I was travel weary, but forgot about this in
the anticipation of meeting with this fine group. This as-
sociation has only been organized three years, but be-
lieve me when IT say, they are on the job. Thanks to
Johnny Mead, Jim Milbourne, Page Andrews and a few
others who have spent time and money in getting things
started. This crowd of alumni seemed to enjoy the mov-
ing pictures of the campus and familiar faces around
Lexington. T hope to be able to show these pictures to
all of our organizations within the next year. It doesn’t
take an expert to see that they were made by an ama-
teur, but we can bring you back to the campus for an
hour or so. > eel

On January 14th I took our basketball team to New
York where we played Long Island University in Mad-
ison Square Garden. On this particular trip I was acting
in the capacity of nurse as well as coach. I mean by this
that about half of our squad were ill, caused by a mild
epidemic of flu that we have had here for the past month.
I am sure all of our readers know of the fine basketball
center we have in Bob Spessard—6 feet 7-inch of man.
The flu caused him to be left in the hospital in Lexington.

(Continued on page 24)

[ 22 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Memphis

On DECEMBER 41rH the Memphis Alumni association
held what was perhaps the largest meeting in its history,
sixty alumni being present. The meeting was held at the
University Club, honoring John H. Sorrells, 1918, who
was recently made president of the Commercial Pub-
lishing Company, publishers of The Commercial Appeal.

George Powers, president of the Association, pre-
sided, and short talks were made by Harry Adams, John
Sorrells and Cy Young.

A feature of the occasion was the showing of mov-
ing pictures by Cy Young, of scenes and personalities
on the campus and in the town of Lexington. A moving
picture outfit has recently been purchased by the Alumni
Association, and wherever they have been shown at local
alumni meetings have created a great deal of interest
and enthusiasm. Members and guests present were:

Judge Harry Adams, 1916 Law; W. Preston Battle,
Jr., 1930; Thomas R. Boyle, 1876; W. J. Brooks, 1933;
Palmer Brown, 1932; J. Stewart Buxton, 1935; Albert
8B. Carruthers, 1925; Dolph Clark, 1923-24; Charles W.
Cocke; W. Raymond Cooper, 1906; J. Sims Edmond-
son, 1919; George W. Faison, 1917; Edward Felsenthal,
1926; Irvin H. Fleming, Jr., 1930; Peter R. Friedel,
1932; W. E. Gage, Jr., 1927; Abe Goodman, Jr., 1925;
Dr. Henry B. Gotten, 1924; Dr. Nicholas Gotten, 1924.

William G. Hall, 1925; Henry Halle, Jr., 1928;
Thomas Harper, 1917; George Harsh, Jr., 1928; James
N. Harsh, 1929; R. Maynard Holt, 1927; William EF.
Holt, Jr., 1923; Edward S. Jacobs, 1934; Walk C. Jones,
Jr., 1926; Kenneth C. Kimbrough; A. B. Knipmeyer,
1902; C. P. Lee, 1933; Dr. Jerome P. Long, Jr., 1924.

Malcom F. McDonald, 1920; William M. McDonald ;
Leland L. McGraw; Edgar T. McHenry, Jr., 1925; J.
M. McKnight, 1932; Gus Morgan; J. T. Morgan, 1890;
Montgomery Murdaugh, 1927; John Milledge Naill,
1924; H. C. Nall, Jr.; Robert W. Pharr, 1929; Walter
N. Pharr, 1929: M. E. Porter, 1933; Dr. George L.
Powers, Jr., 1927; Joe M. Russell, 1921; James 5S.
Shields, 1932; Otho Shuford, 1909; Joel S. Snyder,
1933; Nat Summerfield; John H. Sorrels, 1918; Coop-
er Turner, Jr., 1927, 1929 Law.

Dr. R. F. Cooper, A. B., 1902, M.A., 1904, Holly
Springs, Miss.; F. C. Currie, 1921, Crawfordsville, Ark. ;
C. B. Driver, 1928, Osceola, Ark.; B. J. Lambert, Jr.,
1931, Holly Grove, Ark.; A. B. (Galla) Paxton, 1917,
Greenville, Miss.; Burton S. Sanford, 1915, Ripley,
Tenn.; Harry K. (Cy) Young, 1917, Lexington, Va.

St. Louis

ALUMNI OF St. Louis held a luncheon meeting dur-
ing the holidays for local boys now attending Washing-
ton and Lee. There are twenty-three students enrolled
from St. Louis and vicinity.

John L. Patterson, president of the association, pre-
sided, and talks were made by Mr. McChesney Martin,
member of the Board of Trustees of the University,
Mr. H. H. Larimore and Sam McChesney, Jr.

The following students and alumni were present :

Students—Bruce Seddon, Edwin C. Ernst, Oliver
Hickel, A. H. Baur, Joe Hunter, Sam McChesney, Joe
Kdwards, and Douglas Remmers.

Alumni—E,. H. Bacon, 1933; L. Douglas Danforth,
1923; W. C. Edwards, 1932; R. Wayne Ely, 1911; W.
D. Gunter, 1933; Stanley F. Hampton, 1930; Robert
lee Hunter, 1886; H. H. Larimore, 1896; W. McChes-
ney Martin, 1895; E. H. Miller, 1928; Charles Peaper,
1931; B. S. Pruitt, 1923; Al F. Taylor, 1927; James H.
Ward, 1930; George R. Zimmerer, 1932; Bruce Seddon ;
J. A. Newton; C. H. Reasor; Maury A. Jones; D. F.
Crossen, 1932; J. R. Long; H. D. McNew, 1936; John
1.. Patterson.

Lynchburg

THE LocAL Washington and Lee Alumni association
entertained at the Oakwood Country Club with a dance
on December 18th. The dance was given for the high
and preparatory school boys in the vicinity of Lwnch-
burg. There were about six hundred guests present.

Washington and Lee colors of blue and white were
featured in the decorations, consisting of streamers in
which the colors alternated, suspended from the lights,
university pennants at either end of the long reception
room in which the dance was held, and silvered Christ-
mas trees sparkled with blue lights.

Members of the chapter, the majority of them pres-
ent at the dance and sharing the responsibilities as hosts
of the evening were:

©. B. Barker, Jr., R. Maxwell Barker, Harry Baum-
gardner, Davis Bell, Jr., H. S. Bryant, E. M. Bristow,
A. L.. Burger, Dr. R. D. Caldwell, James R. Caskie, John
S. Caskie, Lynch Christian, Raymond Cundiff, Fred M.
Davis, T. W. Gilliam, IT, Carter Glass, Jr., Henry B.
Glass, Powell Glass, Robert Glass, Richard Gooch, Reed
Graves, Tom Graves, Morris Hester, Thomas S. Kirk-
patrick, Irving Lynn, W. W. Lynn, Jr., George Lupton,

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni M agazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

I’, W. McWane, Jr., W. W. Manley, Jr., C. G. Massie,
Maurice Moore, A. W. Mosby, Jr., John L. Mosby, Giles
M. Penick, Mosby G. Perrow, Jr., W. Ashton Powell,
Dr. C. T. Patterson, O. C. Rucker, Jr., W. T. Spencer,
Jr., J. B. Stovall, Jr., Thomas F. Torrey, Basil G. Wat-
kins, Herbert L. Williams, Sampel H. Williams, C. B.
Wiltshire, Peyton B. Winfree, Jr., John A. Witt, and
R. C. Wood.

Richmond

Marr WILTSHIRE, state service supervisor of the
Home Owners’ Loan Corporation of Virginia, was elect-
ed president of the Richmond Alumni Club of Wash-
ington and Lee University at its annual meeting in the
Westmoreland Club on January 19th, a date set apart
by the University and alumni throughout the country
as founder’s day in honor of Robert FE. Lee.

The dinner meeting was featured with an address by
the Rev. J. D. Winn, D. D., pastor of the Washington
Street Church, Petersburg, Va.

Mr. Wiltshire succeeded Joseph E. Birnie as pres-
ident of the alumni club. Other officers elected were Dr.
Richard Fowlkes, vice-president; Ted Curtis, secretary.

Louisville

A MEETING of the Louisville alumni was held in the
Brown Hotel on January 19. About 30 alumni were in
attendance. John J. Davis of the Law Class of 1892 pre-
sided. Some interesting observations on Lexington and
Washington and lee of that period were contributed by
the presiding officer. James Veech of the Class of 1894
made similar observations. Charles Mercke solicited sub-
scriptions to The Alumni Magazine. The meeting was
addressed by Raymon T. Johnson of the Washington
and Lee Law School faculty.

The meeting was held one week B. C. (before the
catastrophe), and this report is written one week A. D.
(after the deluge). During the interval between these
dates a great deal of water has passed under the bridge.
This partly accounts for the meagerness of this report.

~~ ee ee ——-

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

(Continued from page 22)

Owing to these double duties I missed a great many
of our alumni while in New York, but I did have an
opportunity to chat with a few of our friends while there.
Buck Miles sat on the bench with me. I would have liked
to have him jumping center instead. Ricky Burton came
by our dressing room, as did many others. I was awfully
glad to see Charlie McNitt for several reasons. Charlie

is now a doctor and for that night and the next day
acted as our team physician. Thanks to him I was able
to get the invalids back to Lexington. Brook Barber,
also a doctor, offered his assistance, but Charlie McNitt
thought he could handle the situation by himself.

I spent considerable time with Irwin Graham who
happened to be in the city on business. Frank Urmey and
3ebe Spotts, two former basketball luminaries, extended
many courtesies.
5 ok 7K ok

Who doesn’t recall that grand and glorious feeling
when you had taken your last examination at mid-term.
Once again that time has arrived here. The girls are be-
ginning to come in for the dances that start tonight.
Hal Kemp and Eddie Duchin will be on hand; the deco-
rators are working on the gymnasium and the boys are
standing in line getting their costumes for Fancy Dress.
The weather is cold, but I know it will either be raining
or snowing by dance time which will make it awfully
bad for the Grecian togas, ballet girls and those dressed
in Scottish attire, but it should be swell for the bear cos-
tumes. Fancy Dress is bigger and better than ever. How
we wish you could all be here for the 31st annual jam-
bouree.

 

Riley Gets Position

CuarLes Leicgn Ritey, Washington and Lee, 1924,
has been made assistant to the president at Roanoke Col-
lege, and will begin his work at the college immediately.
He is a son of the late Franklin L. Riley, who served as
head of the history department here until his death in 1929.

Riley received his M.A. degree at Washington and
Lee in 1929. This year he has been engaged in research
on the life of St. George Tucker, in connection with his
Ph. D. degree, which he will receive from Duke univer-
sity in June.

 

McCrum’s to Build Filling Station

‘Tue LEXINGTON zoning board last week granted the
McCrum Drug company permission to erect a filling
station on the corner now occupied by the Lyons build-
ing. The zoning board’s decision reversed a previous
ruling of the town council.

The decision removed the chief legal obstacle in the
path of McCrum’s plans to erect a filling station and
restaurant at the intersection.

The petition filed by the McCrum company for a
building permit was rejected by the town council several
weeks ago, but an appeal was carried to the zoning board
and the permit granted.

[ 24 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1872
Jupce I. W. Srepuens, A. B., 1872, celebrated his
86th birthday at the home of his daughter in Fort Worth,
‘Texas, on November 15th. Mr. Stephens was born in
Bledsoe county, ‘Tennessee, November 15, 1850, and at-
tended Washington College during the presidency of
General Robert Ii. Lee.

1893

Joun ‘IT. Morcan has had three sons educated at
Washington and Lee and another “rarin’ to go.” Mr.
Morgan is connected with the Happy Feed Mills, Mem-
phis, Tenn.

A. H. Woops, after leaving Washington and Lee,
taught two years; went to the University of Pennsylva-
nia, “learned a little medicine”; went to China (not as
a missionary, but in a regular college) ; practiced in Phil-
adelphia; back to China; was in the army, partly in
I‘rance, partly in nerve-wound work in New York. He
is now in Iowa City, lowa. He has found life increas-
ingly interesting and says it will be hard for him to re-
tire at 65, the age he set for that “foreclosure” years ago.

1894

R. W. Jopiinc is pastor of the First Presbyterian
church, Lancaster, S. C. Has been in this pastorate for
sixteen years. He is married and has a daughter who
graduated from Hollins College in June.

1899

REAR-ADMIRAL CHARLES PHILIP SNYDER was de-
Navy Yard,

tached from duty as Commander of the
Portsmouth, N. H., last October and went
to the Pacific coast to assume command of
Cruiser Division Six, Scouting Force,
United States Fleet. This is one of the big
commands of the fleet. He was in com-
mand of a detachment of six heavy cruis-
ers, the 10,000-ton variety, which sailed
for South America April 27 from Califor-
nia waters and returned June 20. Attached
to this command also were six of our latest
destroyers of about 1,500 to 1,800 tons
each.

EWING SLOAN is an engineer-examiner
with PWA, Jackson, Miss.

 

1901

A. L. MerepirH is practicing medicine at Prairie
Home, Mo.

MatrHew Pack ANDREWS is writing a history of
Virginia. He lives at 849 Park avenue, Baltimore, Md.

1902

Bit ALLAN is practicing medicine in Charlotte, N. C.

Vornery M. Brown has been located in EI] Paso,
Texas, since 1902. He is an attorney-at-law with offices
in the El Paso National Bank building.

E. W. G. Boocuer is professor of English at Rider
College, Trenton, N. J.

Grigkr R. SmIey is chief engineer with the Louis-
ville & Nashville Railroad Company, Louisville, Ky.

Rosert F. Cooper is president of the Mississippi
Synodical College, Holly Springs, Miss. His son grad-
uated from Washington and Lee last year.

1903

Cary BLAIN is superintendent of the Highland In-
stitute, Breathitt county, Ky. This school is doing a great
work for the boys and girls of the mountains of Ken-
tucky.

James A. Parks is practicing law in Clinton, Mo.

1904

On December 31, 1937, J. R. HANDLAN rounded out
31 years in the service of the Carnegie Illinois Steel
Corporation.

1906

J. M. Hooker, after leaving school,
opened a law office in Stuart, Va., where he
is still practicing. He is interested in polli-
tics and local matters. He has a son who
is practicing with him, and a daughter in
college.

1908

Witmer §S. Foster has been with the
Chase National Bank, New York City, for
21 years. He has two sons, 23 and 18 years
old, and an eight-months-old grandson,
weighing 22 pounds.

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Pryron Hopson is.a member of the law firm of
Harman, Irancis & Hobson, First National Bank build-
ing, Pikeville, Ky. He has three Washington and Lee
prospects in his home, and a nephew, son of Bob, enter-
ing this fall.

1909

CHARLES WATKINS is director of the Margaret Mor-
rison Carnegie College, Carnegie Institute of Technol-
ogy, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.

JoHN CAMPBELL is trust officer of the Rockbridge
National Bank, Lexington, Va. He and his family spent
part of the summer cruising in the Carribean Sea.

S. Gwynn Cok is head of the department of history
and political science at Florida Southern College, Lake-
land, Fla.

1911

C. A. (‘Top) Rossins is spending the winter months
at his villa in France. His address is Villa Le Grand
Chene, Villefranche sur-mer, A. M. France.

Jack Martin, B.A., 1911, M.A., 1914, has just
completed a two-year term as President of the Virginia
I<ducation Association.

W. R. L. Taytor is still Mayor of the City of Nor-
folk, Virginia. His son, W. R. L., Jr., graduates from
William and Mary this year and will enter the Wash-
ington and Lee law school in the fall.

1912

3yrRON L,. BALLARD, 1400 Olds Tower building, Lan-
sing, Michigan, has been appointed a member of the
state board of law examiners by the Supreme Court. He
succeeds his law partner, Edmund C. Shields, Democratic
national committeeman, resigned. Mr. Ballard is Class
Agent for the law class of 1912.

1913

Paut C. Burorp is a member of the firm of Hall,
Buford & Leftwich, Boxley building, Roanoke, Va.

Irvinc Lewis Victor is conducting a cafe at 13311
S. Broadway, Los Angeles, Calif.

Bertin R. Lemon says: “For vocation I am farm-
ing; for avocation I fish, hunt and talk politics.” He
lives in Oriskany, Va.

Birt Hanzscue is the minister of Prospect Street
Presbyterian church, Trenton, N. J. Beginning last sum-
mer and regularly on Wednesdays at 11:15 he broad-
casts over WJZ and thirty-five stations of the coast-to-
coast network as “The Trail Finder” of. the National

Broadcasting Company, sponsored by the Federal Coun-
cil of Churches.

1914

Avex M. Hirz is a member of a recently formed
partnership for the practice of law in Atlanta, Georgia.
The firm name is King, Hitz & Partridge and their of-
fices are in the Citizens & Southern Bank building, At-
lanta.

1915

CLAIBORNE Goocn is factory manager of the Molins
Machine Company, Inc., Richmond, Va.

Artruur M. Brrpsae is practicing law with offices
at 704 Tenth avenue, Belmar, N. J.

Ricuarp W. FowLkes is practicing medicine in
Richmond, Va., with offices in the Professional building.

N. P. Mossks is living at 326 Mulberry street,
Waynesboro, Va.

1916

EL_woop H. SEAL was appointed corporation counsel
for the District of Columbia on August 4th, 1936.

James H. McGrnunis is at 805 Peoples Bank build-
ing, Charleston, W. Va.

F. STaNnLeEy Porver is practicing law in the Calvert
building, Baltimore, Md.

B. P. Goop is an attorney and counsellor-at-law,
Hillsville, Va.

Cuar.es T. HERNDON, JR., is a lawyer at Kingsport,
Tennessee.

Bos Curtis deserted the law for “printer’s ink’ soon
after graduation. He is assistant manager of the Times-
World Corporation, of Roanoke, Va., publishers of The
Roanoke Times and The Roanoke W orld-News.

Cuick Evans is living at 430 Walnut avenue, S. W.,
Roanoke, Va. He did not practice law after graduation,
but went into business, first with Gimbel Brothers, New
York, and later with the Craddock Terry Shoe Co., in
Lynchburg, Va.

1917

GALLA Pax’ton has been actively connected with the
Mississippi National Guard since the War, in addition to
being in the cotton shipping business. His home is in
Greenville, Miss.

AprIAN Boyp is in the cotton business in Clarksdale,
Mississippi.

G. RayMonp WoMELDoRF is in China with the Pres-
byterian Mission, South, Hwaianfu, Kiangsu.

[ 26 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jim FAULKNER is proud of the fact that the oldest
of his two boys will enter Washington and Lee this fall.
Jim is in charge of the automobile casualty and special
risk department of Fire Companies’ Adjustment Bu-
reau, Inc. His home is at 3413 Harwood, Highland Park,
Dallas, Texas.

Marion SANDERS is living in Wytheville, Va., prac-
ticing engineering.

CHARLIE STRIBLING is superintendent of the Mis-
souri Military Academy, Mexico, Mo. He made a trip
to Lexington in the spring with thirty-five of his cadets,
which trip, incidentally, resulted in the enrollment of two
of his best graduates here this fall.

Junius B. PowE tt has become associated with Cohu
Brothers, members of the New York Stock xchange,
as manager of their underwriting and
investment banking department, at 24
Broad street, New York.

1918

James J. [zArp is in the insurance
business—Charles Lunsford & Sons,
Colonial Bank building, Roanoke, Va.

ey

KO
SY

W. H. THAyER was graduated in
medicine at the University of Louis-
ville (Ky.), in 1922. Since then has
been engaged in general practice in
Portland, Ore. He is married and has
two children.

4
5
—
e

[ESTER ARNOLD is an orchardist,
working with Senator Harry F. Byrd in Winchester,
Va. He says he has a wife, two boys, two girls and a dog.

1919

W. J. DuNGAN says: “Am engaged in the practice
of law in Augusta, Ark. Practice strictly that of private
citizens and corporations. President of Rotary club. Gave
Commencement address to 1936 class of Arkansas Col-
lege at Batesville.

Dewey Davis is practicing internal medicine in Rich-
mond, Va.

Arruur M. Cromwett is with the woodworking
department of the Los Angeles branch of the Simonds
Saw & Steel Co. His address is 4970 Mt. Royal Drive,
Eagle Rock, Calif.

1920

Ropert W. RussELt has been principal of Amite
High School, Amite, La., for a number of years. For
the past session, having a leave of absence, he has been

 

employed by Harcourt & Co., of Louisville, Ky., and
the Penn Mutual Insurance Company. He will return to
Amite High school next year. |

Kk. BB. PENNYBACKER, Prosecuting Attorney of
Woods county, Parkersburg, W. Va., has been elected
Judge of the Circuit Court and went on the bench Jan-
uary 1, 1936.

James M. MarsHatv is with Remington Rand in
Baltimore, Md.

J. Hun’ Sirrorp, JRr., has made Baltimore, Md., his
home for the past eight years. He is connected with the
firm of Brooke, Stokes & Co., investment bankers, at
300 North Charles street. Hunt lives in Ruxton, is mar-
ried and has two daughters, twelve and seven years of
age. He married Agnes Harrison Dunkel, and her at-
tendance at Washington and Lee
dances will be remembered by many of
our readers.

Dr. Vernon W. RicHArps writes
from Salisbury, Eastern Shore of
Maryland, where he is practicing den-
tistry and extends to us the hospitality
of that well-known section of the Free
State. He tells us that A. W. Fooks,
1920, is still living in Salisbury, but
he does not know where J. P. Short,
1920, is now located.

Cuester S. SLaveE is living in
Chevy Chase, Md., and is employed in
the nearby city of Washington, D. C.

Ratpu D. HuMMEL is a practicing chemist for Parke
Davis & Co. He gives us his new address as 9235 Agnes
street, Detroit, Mich. Since we last heard from Ralph,
he has married, bought a car and taken up golf. Un-
doubtedly he has had a busy, and may we conjecture, an
expensive year. Yet he has been most generous with the
Alumni Fund and this we appreciate.

Kart H. JoHNSON (PIKE) is secretary to the mayor
of Everett.

1921

Stanton B. Hug is employed by the state highway
department, rating assistant district engineer, District
No. 6, Winchester, Ky.

Rosert Bratr Prick has changed his address in
Swarthmore, Pa., to 508 Swarthmore avenue.

RicHARD SELDEN PEACH is a farmer at Upperville,
Va. He raises hunting horses to sell. Is married and has
a baby girl three years old.

[ 27 ]

 

The cAlumni M Lagazine, Washin gton and Lee University

TorRENCE WoLForpD is a member of the Appeals
Board of the Veterans’ Administration Bureau, and re-
cently had the first addition to his family—a Sweet Briar
candidate.

1922

Rosert M. Brar has been transferred to the phychol-
ogy department in Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.

Marrurw G. HENDERSON is a reserve officer on ac-
tive duty with the army at Englewood, N. J. His perma-
nent address is 430 Redgate avenue, Norfolk, Va.

Louts S. Jor is practicing law in office number 1313
in the Graham building, Jacksonville, Fla. Says Jackson-
ville has long been a Washington and Lee stronghold.

A. J. LUBLiner is practicing law in Bluefield, W. Va.

Lewis W. (Jim) MiLsourng is assistant treasurer
of the Monumental Radio Company, of Baltimore, Md.

1923

Wiceert H. Haynss located at Fayetteville, W. Va.,
after graduating at Washington and Lee, where he has
been practicing law continuously. He was mayor of Fay-
etteville for two years in 1927 and 1928 and has been
commissioner of accounts for more than ten years. He
married Helen Paxton, a Rockbridge county girl, and
has a son who has finished his first year in school and
a daughter about four.

Marion Bisuor ALEXANDER is with the Advertising
Service Agency, Charleston, S. C.

B. PALMER Orr is traveling for the Weingerer Ba-
nana Co., of New Orleans, and travels take him from
Canada to the Gulf of Mexico and from Pittsburgh to
Kansas City. His brother Garland is traveling for the
same company.

Cyrus W. Hatz is practicing law in the Kanawha
Valley Bank building, Charleston, W. Va.

1924

Artuur Atwwop, LL. B., is in charge of legal ex-
amining work for H. O. L. C. in Washington, D. C.

1926

Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins announced De-
cember 29, 1936, the appointment of Robert C. Smith,
B. S. in Commerce, as Director of Personnel of the De-
partment of Labor. After teaching at Furman Univer-
sity the new Labor Department official became Director
of the Virginia Bureau of Research. He went to the
Farm Credit Administration in January, 1934, where he

has since been an assistant director of personnel. Mr.
Smith was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity at
Washington and Lee.

EmMerr W. MacCorktee, Jr., A. B., 1926, formerly
of Ashland, Kentucky, but connected for the past year
with the Air Reduction Company at Wheeling, W. Va.,
has been promoted to assistant sales manager of the
Cleveland district. His headquarters will be in Cleveland.

1927

Roy G. Nicuots is director of music in Blair Junior
High school, Norfolk, Va., and director of the Ghent
Methodist church choir.

Roper ‘Tl. Foree, JRr., is district wholesale manager
with General Electric Supply Corporation, at 207 F.
Broadway, Louisville, Kentucky.

1928

Percy CoHeEnN is associated with his father in the
furniture business in Nashville, Tenn. He was chairman
of the Metropolitan division for the Red Cross Roll Call
drive in Nashville.

WittiAm J. Luria is with Luria Brothers & Co.,
iron and steel, Lincoln-Liberty building, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

W. 1. Harris has been permanently settled in Wheel-
ing, W. Va., for the past two years. He is with the Mail
Pouch Tobacco Company.

Announcement has been received in the alumni office
that G. Oldham Clarke, LL. B., 1928, has formed a
partnership with Lafon Allen, for the practice of law,
under the firm name of Allen and Clarke, with offices in
the Kentucky Home Life building, Louisville, Ky.

1929

James Murpocn SHACKELFORD was married April
25 to Miss Emily Webb. His home is at 70 South street,
Somerville, N. J.

Jor Locxerr is a member of the law firm of An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell, Gulf building, Hous-
ton, Texas.

Joun Bett Towitr has recently become a member
of the firm of Hull, Barrett, Willingham & Towill, at-
torneys-at-law, of Augusta, Georgia.

Tom Wricut is teaching in the high school at Great
Falls, S. C. He and Mrs. Wright are the proud parents
of a baby girl one year old.

[ 28 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1930

Dr. MeGrnek Harvey, Phi Beta Kappa, who re-
ceived his M.D. from Johns Hopkins year before last
and has been an interne in the hospital there ever since,
has been awarded a fellowship for study abroad. He has
made a particularly fine record in the past few years.

Jim Hess is with Carbide and Carbon Chemicals
Corporation in South Charleston, W. Va.

“Bup” Rosperson has been located in Buffalo, N. Y.,
since graduating from Washington and Lee, in the credit
and collection department of DuPont Cellophane Co.

Jamrs F. Bruner is special agent for the Provident
Life and Accident Insurance Company, at Westminster,
S. C. He is maried to ‘a home town girl.”

Joun Hucues NELSON teaches school in the winter
and is in the tobacco industry in the summer. He has a
little girl three years old. His home is
in Danville, Va.

Eart T. Jones, formerly of Dan-
ville, Va., is married and has moved
to Norfolk, Va.

IRANKLIN R. BiGHAM has _ been
practicing law in Gettysburg, Pa., since
June 4, 1934. He was married May
15, 1936, to Leonora Groves.

 

JoseEpH CARSON WHITSON is with
the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.,

‘Talladega, Ala. =

Vircit C. JoNEs is city editor of the Huntsville
Times, Huntsville, Ala.

Merit DeWitt CLEMENTS, JR., is in the insurance
business with the New England Mutual, Birmingham,
Alabama.

Marcus H. Cowen is merchandise manager of the
Maas Brothers department store, Tampa, Fla. Maas
Brothers is a member of the Allied Department Stores,
owning 33 stores throughout the country.

KpwaArp GRAVES has been doing legal work in con-
nection with the New Deal Puerto Rico Reconstruction
Administration, San Juan, Puerto Rico. He is now living
in Washington, D. C.

SHuFORD NICHOLS is in the cotton business—S. R.
Nichols & Co., Des Arc, Ark.

Jack G. Crart is in the hotel business, wintering in
Florida and summering in North Carolina. He is mar-
ried and has two small daughters.

 

1931

CHANDLER W. Gorpon’s engagement to Miss Dor-
othy Thomas of Detroit has recently been announced.
The marriage will take place in May or June.

Rev. Bor Ketr, A. B., 1931, M. A., 1932, who grad-
uated from the Theological Seminary at Alexandria in
1935 and has been junior curate at St. Michaels and All
Angels in Baltimore since that summer, was ordained
priest on January 9%th of this year. The service was a
very impressive one.

Bite ‘TALLYN has changed his address from Seran-
ton, Pa., to 365 N. Arlington avenue, East Orange, N. J.

1932

Witson KING is at Rock Falls, Illinois. His Christ-

mas card was signed Mr. and Mrs., so we gather that

he has annexed a wife. From all re-

> ports, Wilson is making a “‘go” of his
largish farm.

M. W. Avetson, Phi Beta Kappa,
is practicing law in Baltimore, Md.

Bitty Hoyt, Phi Beta Kappa, is
on the last lap of his journey toward
his Ph. D. at Johns Hopkins.

Jonn Crinton Harris, B.A., is
in the wholesale grocery business at
Scottsboro, Alabama.

HavEN Watton, A.B., 1s sales-
man and statistician with the Securities Tabulating Cor-
poration, 63 Wall street, New York.

Mr. AND Mrs. Artuur BAssE of Oak Park, IIL,
announce the engagement of their daughter, Betty Ann,
to Richard A. Parmelee, 1932, manager of the Colgate
Inn, Hamilton, N. Y., and General Worth Hotel, Hud-
son, N. Y. The wedding will take place in September.

I. F. Hupson has received his M. D. from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania and is serving his internship in
Los Angeles, Calif., in the Los Angeles county hospital.

Ropert L. McBribE is an attorney-at-law, Hills-
boro, Ohio.

Everett Cross is a member of the District of Co-
lumbia Playground Department and is taking a secre-

tarily course on the side. His address 812 Farragut,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

D. GrorGE Prick is no longer teaching at Fishburne
Military Academy, but has a position with the Depart-

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni M [agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ment of Labor, United States Employment Service, as a
job specification writer.

1933

Lurner Vioverr has been employed by Dunn &
Bradstreet, Inc., since June 25, 1936. For the last four
months he has been located in the Dayton, Ohio, office.
His address is 401 American Savings Building, Third
and Main streets.

CHarLES Ropert Kaptan is with the Interstate
Stores Company, Owensboro, Ky. He was back for Fi-
nals this year.

Joun CuLtey lives at 422 Hamilton street, Mvans-
ton, Ill. He is doing helpful work in connection with the
Chicago alumni group.

Marion Porter, Phi Beta Kappa, is assistant pro-
fessor of modern languages at Southwestern, Memphis,
Tenn. He hopes to finish his dissertation in time to get
a Ph. D. from Princeton in February.

Dick CALDWELL completed his second year of Med-
ical College in Philadelphia last June.

Topp DeVaN has been in medical school in Phil-
adelphia for three years and is now starting on the home
stretch.

ALLEN Worrorp is selling insurance for the Pru-
dential Life Insurance company as well as general insur-
ance. He is well and “having a good time.” He lives in
Johnson City, Tenn.

CHARLIE LONGACRE taught last winter in one of the
junior high schools in Elizabeth, N. J.

Lorine M. Garrison is with Crane & Co., 218 Pen-
dleton street, Greenville, S. C.

KrED Cook has continued his studies in chemistry
since leaving Washington and Lee University, first at
the University of Tennessee where he received his Mas-
ter of Science degree, then a year at Princeton, and last
year at Penn State.

The Bricken brothers, Irving and Buck, are in the
real estate business at 565 Fifth avenue, New York City.

Joun L. Ericson is practicing law in the Leonard
building, New Britain, Conn. He is married.

Jor BEAR is practicing law with his brother Carl, un-
der the firm name of Bear and Bear, with offices in the
First National Bank building, Montgomery, Ala.

CHARLIE SuTER is with the Berkshire Life Insurance
Company, Union Trust building, Washington, D. C.

Joun ANvbrREW WoMELDoRF graduated from Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., in the class of

1936. He was married June 26th to Margaret Glass, of
Richmond, and is now living in Appalachia, Va., where
he is pastor of the First Presbyterian church.

1934

RopNEY MaAssik£, JRr., is working with the Beckley
Industrial Saving and Loan Co., at Beckley, W. Va. He
was married last October.

THORNTON Berry is practicing law in the firm of
Strother, Curd and Berry, Welch, W. Va.

Henry K. Doane, A. B., M.A., is teaching Hnglish
and Spanish in the Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

Ep Cuaprett is working with the DuPont Rayon
Company at Waynesboro, Va.

WittiAm JoserpH Moran, Jr., has a job with Ma-
brand Products, Inc., a branch of R. H. Macey & Co.,
New York, doing research work on drugs and cosmetics.

Joe Burton was married during the summer to Den-
ison Lewis, who graduated at Goucher last June. They
live at 2910 N. Calvert street, Baltimore.

ALEX JONEs is living at 507 North Taylor avenue,
Kirkwood, Mo.

CarLton Ware is working in his father’s grain
brokerage firm in Pine Bluff, Ark., and practicing law
on the side. He won his first case.

KENNETH. Davis was a visitor to the alumni office
in July. He lives at Needham Heights, Mass.

LAyNE H. Forp passed the West Virginia state bar
examination and was admitted to the bar in the late fall
of 1934 and practiced with his father until the early part
of 1935, at which time he entered the employ of the
State of West Virginia in the contract department of the
state road commission,

RicHARD SALE lives at 5 Circuit Road, New Ro-
chelle, N. Y. His recent book, ‘‘Not Too Narrow, Not
Too Deep,” is to be followed by another, now in the
hands of the publishers. He has been doing free-lance
writing since leaving Washington and Lee University.

1935

Carson Huntvety, Phi Beta Kappa, is still in Eng-
land, studying and writing. He made several lengthy trips
during the past year, notably to Scandinavia and Italy.
His address is 50, Sussex Gardens, London W. 2.

LetcHtTon EverHART is with the DuPont people and
is living in Charleston, W. Va. His address is 1558 Ka-
nawha street.

[ 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

lLeEWwis Harvey is at the University of Virginia work-
ing for an M.A. in English.

RED McKowwn attended the law school of the Uni-
versity of Richmond last winter. His permanent address
is Montgomery, W. Va.

The “Lawyer’s Row” in Staunton, Va., is rather
formidable with Washington and Lee men. Dick Pey-
ton, “Cap.” Nelson, “Wes” ‘Taylor, Herbert Taylor,
Steve Timberlake and others have their offices there.
The Staunton alumni chapter recently elected Dick Pey-
ton its president and Rudolph Bumgardner, secretary.

STANLEY ‘TWEEDLE, who is an Englishman under the
status of a student-immigrant in this county, returned to
‘ngland last summer and secured a visa permit to re-
main here permanently. After leaving Washington and
lee University, he went to Virginia Military Institute,
where he received his A. B. degree in
June, 1934. Since that time he has
been working in the administration of-
fices at V. M. I.

Lewis Harvey is taking graduate
work at the University of Virginia.
He hopes to receive his M.A. in the
spring of 1937,

ALLEN MCRAE HARRELSON, JR.,
has a job with the Hobart Manufac-
turing Co., in Troy, O., as an auditor.

NorMAN S&S. FitrzHuGu, Jr., is
working with his father’s firm of cer-
tified public accountants in Charleston, W. Va. He says
he hopes to have another year at Washington and Lee.

Vicror R. LAVoLPE is with the Associated Press,
Ledger building, Newark, N. J.

Bos MILLER is working for the Philip Carey Co., in
Cincinnati. His address is 1108 Cross Lane, Walnut
Hills, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Witt1am Henry Hunrer is working as a drafts-
man in the state highway department of Mississippi.

Bit, ALEXANDER is living at 3730 Lovers’ Lane, Dal-
las, Texas.

Jim GARDNER took a course in business administra-
tion at Babson Institute, Babson Park, Mass., last winter.

W. Witson Kine is farming “in a big way.” He is
the representative of agriculture in the local Rotary Club
and is serving on the school board. He is also doing his
best to carry the Democratic party flag in a Republican
county. His home is Rock Falls, Tl.

 

1936

RICHARD 'T, is with
Jusiness Bureau, Hartford, Conn.

SCULLY the Hartford Better

AJAX BROWNING is studying with the Maryland
Casualty Company in Baltimore. His training course
will end soon and he will be sent forth to some remote
region as agent.

DuncAN Corperr graduated with honors with the
degree of B.S. in Petroleum Geology at the University
of Texas in June, 1936, after which he made a tour of
Europe, attending the Olympic games in Berlin. In Sep-
tember he entered the law department of Northwestern
University in Chicago.

W. W. VENABLE, formerly in the practice of law,
is now a member of the firm of Smith-Douglas, Inc.,
fertilizer manufacturers, Board of Trade building, Nor-
folk, Va. He is still a member of the
General Assembly of Virginia.

WILLIAM JOHNSON is now living
at Columbia, Tenn.

WaLcter I}. HOFFMAN is a mem-
ber of the firm of Breedin & Hoffman,
attorneys-at-law, Law building, Nor-
folk, Va.

1937

Kk. Moore, who finished the
requirements for his A. B. degree this
past semester, is now working with
the Altavista Journal, Altavista, Va.

LON

ScotriE MAGoon is now in his second year at the
School of Business Administration at the University of
Buffalo. Last year he won the table tennis and contract
duplicate bridge championship of the school.

 

Marriages

WittiAmM (BitL) Dyer of Knoxville, Tenn., and
Miss Elizabeth Parks of Johnson City, Tenn., were mar-
ried at the home of the bride’s parents, December 9,
1936. Mrs. Dyer is a graduate of Mary Baldwin College,
Staunton, Va.

CHARLES WiILLIs WILKERSON, B. A., 1936, was
married to Miss Frances Mallory Pond, November 6,
1936, in Vicksburg, Miss.

SAMUEL C. Srriteé, LL. B., 1929, was married to
Miss Claudia Brewer, of Jackson and Clarksdale, Miss-
issippi, in Jackson, Mississippi, on October 5, 1936. Miss

[ 31 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

srewer is the daughter of former Governor and Mrs.
karl Brewer, now of Jackson. C. Welles Little, 1927,
acted as best man at the wedding.

ERNEST MERTON Woop and Miss Elizabeth Lee
3ond were married December 29, 1936. They are living
in Charleston, W. Va.

Thomas Frrzuucu. LL. B.. 1931, was married to
Miss Miriam Cornish on December 26, 1936, in Trinity
Cathedral, Little Rock, Ark.

Trroomas R. Netson. LL. B., 1925, was married to
Miss Frances I. Rynhart on January 9, 1937, Pauls-
boro, New Jersey. They will live in Staunton, Va.

Harry Lewis Firzceracp, Jr., 1933, was mar-
ried to Miss Ann Elizabeth Prather, on Friday, Jan-
uary 1, 1937, in Dallas, Texas. They will live at 1511
South Denver, Tulsa, Okla.

RicHARD FRANK FAULKNER, 1934, was married to
Georgia Alberta Orwig, January 28th, in Pittsburgh,
Pa. They will make their home at Thomas Apartments,
219 West 7th street, Charlotte, N. C.

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM RicHARD HENDERSON,
1926. announce the birth of their son, William Richard,
Jr., October 19, 1936.

Mr. AND Mrs. Ruypon C. LATHAM are the parents

of a baby girl, born September 15th. They live at 3512
Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, Fla.
Mr. AND Mrs. O. W. Hise, LL. B., 1921, announce

the birth of a baby girl, Ann Dunn Hisle, December

26, 1937.

 

In Memoriam

Jupcr RicHarp S. Ker, 1885, who presided over the
Staunton, Va., Corporation Court for 25 years, died of
a heart attack January 12, 1937. He was a veteran of
the Spanish-American War.

CHARLES PorterRFIELD, A. B., 1882, died at his
Northport, L. I., residence, December 15, 1936. Mr.
Porterfield had been Secretary of the Edward Thomp-

son Co., Publishers, since 1896.

GEORGE A. MAHAN, class of 1869, died at his home
in Hannibal, Mo., December 16, 1936.

MonroE CreEEL List, 1898, died in Winter Park,
Florida, November 18, 1936, where he had gone a few
days before in an effort to regain his health. Mr. List
had been with the Bureau of Safety, Interstate Com-
merce Commission, Washington, D. C. He was a mem-
ber of the Sigma Chi fraternity here.

FranK Cok, LL. B., 1888, died at his home, Thorn
Hill, Lexington, Virginia, on December 19, 1936.

G. F. Droucut was killed in an automobile acci-
dent near Waco, Texas, on Friday, November 6, 1936.

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN
BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted

Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry Borty

was published in March, 1936, of
special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee
$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

[ 32 |

 

Class Agents for 1937

1936—F LETCHER MAyNARD, Lexington, Va. ( Aca.)
CHARLES bs. Cross, JR., /UO t’rotessional Bidg.,
fortsmouth, Va. (Law)

1935—WiLLIAM SCHUHLE, jk., 3916 Fort Avenue,
Lynchburg, Va. (Academic)

‘THOMAS 4. SPARKS, Fordyce, Ark. (Law)
1934—Amos KOLEN, Lexington, Va. (Academic)
‘HOS. D. ANDERSON, Guif Bidg., Houston, ‘Tex.
1933—LUTHER VIOLETT, JR., 4U1 American Savings
Bldg., 3rd & Main, Dayton, Ohio (Academic)
J. JEROME FFRAMpTOM, JR., Federalsburg, Md.
(Law) ,
1932—KEMPER JENNINGS, Mainland High School,
Daytona Beach, Ila. (Academic)
james D. Sparks, 604 Riverside Drive, Monroe,
La. (Law)

1931—-Ben M. Ayars, 2425 Clark St., Columbia, S. C.

(Academic )
(Law)
1930—Hersert G. JAHNCKE, 5529 S. Johnson St.,
New Orleans, La. (Academic)
Morton E. Papcerr, Jr., Oliver & Padgett,
Bedford, Va. (Law)

1929—ALLEN MorcGAan, First Nat. Bank, Memphis,
Tenn. (Academic)

Joun Bett Towit, 1015 Southern Finance
Bldg., Augusta, Ga. (Law)

1928—GeEorcE F. Arwoop, 1118 S$. Clay Ave., Fergu-
son, Mo. (Academic )

1928-—Ruypon C, LATHAM, Florida Nat'l Bank Bldg.,
Jacksonville, Fla. (Law)

1927—

GIBSON WHAITHERSPOON,

Miss. (Law)
1926—PauL MarTIN ScHucHART, 2248 N. 3rd St.,

Harrisburg, Pa. (Academic)

Bast. WATKINS, Peoples Nat'l Bank, Lynch-

burg, Va. (Law)

1925—W. H. Cruverius, 152 Broad St., Charleston,
South Carolina (Academic)
jJoHN C. Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank
Bldg., Charleston, W. Va. (Law)

1924—C. Hacan Minnicu, Bristol, Va. (Academic )
RANDOLPH G. WuirtLeE, No. 6 Kirk Avenue,
West, Roanoke, Va. (Law)

1923—T. J. Extis, Ingraham Bldg., Miami, Fla. ( Aca.)
Emmett W. PoInDEXTER, 120 Broadway, New
York, N. Y. (Law)

1922—Lewis A. DuNLapP, Pulaski, Va.

1921—Joun L. Patrerson, 552 Pierce Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo. (Academic)

Joun Bett, Care of Knight, Thompson & Tur-
ner, Tampa, Fla. (Law)

1920—-R. M. CaBeELt, Covington, Va. (Academic)

l,. BERKELEY, Cox, 801 Farmington Road, W.
Hartford, Conn. (Law

1919—Sam Baker, 1138 Broad Street Station Bldg.,
Sharon, Pa. (Academic )

FRANK Stipes, Union Industrial Bldg., Flint,
Mich. (Law)

1918—F. D. CampseEtt, Southern Bldg., Washington,
D. C. (Academic )

O. M. Stump, 404 Mutual Bldg., Richmond,
Va. (Law)

Box 493, Meridian,

1917—Kosert B. McDovucts, Citizens National Bank
Bidg., Parkersburg, W. Va. (Academic )
Hl. V. CAMPBELL, Security Bidg., Charleston,
W. Va. (Law)

1916--KUSSELL 8. RHODES, Secretary Chamber of
Commerce, ‘Tulsa, Okla. (Academic )
H. J. Kiskr, Wise, Va. (Law)

1915—Ki WittiAMs, Waynesboro, Va. (Academic)
LeON W. Harris, Bleckley Bldg., Anderson,
». C. (Law)

1914—CLARENCE L. SaGER, 30 East 42nd St., New
York, N. Y. (Academic)
Sam WILLIAMS, Krise Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.
(Law)

1913—BeEN IF. Figry, Union Trust Bldg., Cleveland,
Ohio (Academic )
Howarbp LrE Rosinson, Clarksburg, W. Va.
(Law)

1912—WILiiAM A. Hyman, 100 Williams St., New
York, N. Y. (Academic)
Byron lL. BALtarp, 1400 Oldstown
Bldg., Lansing, Mich. (Law)

1911—L,. L. HumMpureys, Duncan, Okla. (Academic )
J. Nevin Kitmerr, Martinsburg, W. Va. (Law)

1910—H. A. Derr, Marietta, Ohio (Academic)
O. W. RicHarpson, 803 Columbia Bldg., Pitts-
burgh, Pa. (Law)

1909—Dr. J. W. CrLaupy, Rockview Farm Prison,
Bellefonte, Pa. (Academic)
JupcrE E. C. Carrrey, Circuit Court of New
Jersey, Hackensack, N. J. (Law)

1908—Puitie P. Pace, 12 E. Grand Ave., Chicago,
Ill. (Academic )

‘Tower

Law

1907—W. R. J. Dunn, Route 4 Cahaba Rd., Bitmine
ham, Ala.

1906—CLaubE P. Licut, 219 Seventh St., Parkers-
burg, W. Va.

1905—

1904—E.. W. PoinpEx’TErR, Shenandoah Life Bldg., Ro-
anoke, Va.

1903—D. A. BrapHam, Warren, Ark.

1902—W. Dewey Coox, Southern
Chemical Co., Savannah, Ga.

1901—MatruHew Pace AnpreEws, 849 Park Avenue,
Baltimore, Md.

1900—J. R. Tuckerr, State Planters Bank Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

1899—Harry Sr. G. Tucker CarMICHAEL, Kyrock,
Kentucky.

1898—NorMaNn §S. FitzHucu, Kanawha Banking &
Trust Co. Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1897—

1896—H. H. Larimore, Missouri Pacific Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

1895—LyneE S. Smitru, 441 W. Seventh St., Erie, Pa.

1894—]Jamrs N. VeEEcu, 1250 Everett Ave., Louis-
ville, Ky.

1893—J. T. Morcan, Happy Feed Co., Memphis,
‘Tennessee

1892—-Jonn J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Ky.

1891—

1890—Dovuctas S. ANpERSON, Mandeville, Louisiana

Fertilizer and

 

 

 

sary 7. ‘4

as

-

 

 

’

   
 

ae

  

a

 

they re Milde :
and they atisly _

ere

rtelian?s

aK

3

 

Sade

 

Copyright 1937, LigGett & Myers ToBaAcco Co.

