 

 

 

GSs

adit j
We

 

Wied

 

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional! character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal
Seal and Dice
General practice in the courts of

the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

 

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Ir., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building

Atlanta, Georgia

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

 

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale. Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

 

 

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little
Rock.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.

Baltimore, Maryland
L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.

Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia
Cc. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

John Culley, 422 Hamilton St., Evanston, IIl.

Cincinnati
Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.
Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Florida National Bank
Building.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.

Louisville, Kentucky
E. A. Dodd, Louisville Trust Building.

Memphis, Tennessee
John K. Speed, 1159 Linden Avenue.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana

Norton Wisdom, Whitney Bank Building.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Stuart Sanders, Sanders Bros. Paint Co.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Rockingham County Association
W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Brian Bell, Assoc. Press, 1243 Trenton St.
Los Angeles
St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association
Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.
Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. XI MARCH-APRIL, 1936 No. 4

 

Bidiher. Sscr :.. Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor. RicHARD PowELt Carter, 1929

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PVOMBOMI GG, 5.565006, ....Dr. J. W. Craupy, 1909
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
SOCretary ...54:.... Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
PPOMNUIE ks. 0855 o00ck; M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powe i, 1929
CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914
HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930

Ki WittiaMs, 1915

 

Contents for March-April 1936

PAGE
Lee POC Re Fh i2 deta bi. 525 ig hae 2
TERE CORIO EN ars aa Frac acta ces Cia iackecteccrcder sve Biesetes eee
A Description of Tucker Hall............ ia cats lias tae od eee aS 5
Furnishings of the Law Bigidmg?..!.2..6...0.)..60c0 dailies 7
A SIE REGU ace a ae Nea asses 00g ha ShacesigeDerssadonereenes 9
Development of the Law Curriculum.....000..00000000.ccccceceee. 11
rom Chaos to Regimentation.......... silent a iis nite AZ
The Tops in Winter Sports..........:.............04.0..: oe ee ae
Local Alssmait ASiOCIatiOed INOUE Liisi: .5.-25cknciedseysseSdghandensetocanenteas 21
Class Agents for 1936............... bM MES tela) as seer ee ae 24

ORs IN car oe recat rs hcg RN io Wa TER Aho ahinah 25

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Building “Worthy of Tradition”

(The President's Page)

. FOREMOST thought in my mind as I| write these

ar paragraphs is my hope that every alumnus, and
particularly the law alumni, will come to see the new
Tucker Hall. For here is a building that even the most
sensitive son of Alma Mater must call worthy of the

who had joined the faculty in 1870. With one or two
brief interruptions, Mr. ’Tucker continued his work till 1897,

x *

The School of Law has been consistently fortunate

tradition and of the promise of this
University.
ee imhee

Before a brick was laid, an amazing
amount of thought was given, by ar-
chitects and by faculty members alike,
to the plans. The experiences and even
the errors of other institutions were
carefully studied and were interpreted
in terms of our peculiar needs. An un-
common measure of skill and conscience
in the construction followed. The result
is a structure that satisfies the best ex-
pectations of all concerned.

* -«K *

It is not a casual compliment to call
this building “worthy of tradition” of
the School of Law, for behind this
branch of Washington and Lee is a rec-
ord that any institution might contem-
plate with pride.

a

Distinction rested upon instruction in law from its
beginning when in October, 1849, Judge Brockenbrough
opened the Lexington Law School. In the first class was
John Letcher’s brother; in the second was a future so-
licitor-general of the United States; in the third were a
future governor of Virginia and a future minister to
Bolivia. Among other prominent men trained in this
little school were Judge W. H. Bolling, father of Mrs.
Woodrow Wilson, General T. L. Rosser, and Superin-
tendent Scott Shipp of the Virginia Military Institute.

* * *

One of the first steps taken by General Lee in his
efforts to enlarge Washington College was to bring this
law school and its dean into the academic unity. Judge
Brockenbrough served for eight years and was succeeded
by J. Randolph Tucker, whose name the building bears,

 

bo

in the quality of its instructors. These
men have brought to their task more
than the erudition which is but the be-
ginning of scholarship. To call the roll
of those who served this unit, men like
Graves and Harry Tucker and Burks
and Long and Staples and Vance—
happily still working in another school
of law—and all the others is attestation
to this truth. The present faculty is
measuring up to these standards.

xk *

Volumes might be written on the
success achieved by students of this law
school. Dr. Smith called attention to the
leadership displayed by its graduates
during the period of the World War:
the Secretary of War, the Ambassador
to England, the Solicitor-General, the
Assistant Attorney-General, the Coun-
sel for Food Administration, the Chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Mil-
itary Affairs, the Chairman of the Sen-
ate Committee on Banking and Currency, the Chairman
of the House Committee on Military Affairs, the Chair-
man of the House Committee on Mines and Minings—
all of these, and a great host of other notable public ser-
vants, were men from this School of Law.

* * *

The beauty and the adequacy for instruction of this
new building added to the competence of the staff and
the quality of the student body give basis for confidence
that this high record will be sustained.

eo ee Ze

President

ea

a — ee ee

fet a:

ae ss

> alin tal
sta ihe de

*»

> vp dile alle: sees,

wre els

e f

4?

« hte ee Wat:

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The School of Law

By W. H. MoreLtanp
Dean of the Law School

Sy, is issuE of The Alumni Magazine has been very

ey kindly placed at the disposal of the law faculty, in
order that they might here publish to the alumni and
friends of the institution a brief history of the law school
and its present condition when, having taken possession
of its new and beautiful law building, it is entering upon
a new era. The task of writing upon
various special subjects having been al-
lotted to other members of the law fac-
ulty, I shall limit my efforts to sketching
very briefly the origin and development
of the law school.

The records of Washington and Lee
University show that from the very be-
ginning its board desired to establish a
school of law, or at least to provide for
the teaching of law. As early as 1803,
an effort was made in this direction.
Space does not permit our going into
detail further than to say that a distin-
guished judge of that day was elected
to a chair of law. Nothing further seems
to have been done after this appoint-
ment was allowed to lapse, on account
funds and other considera-
tions, until more than sixty vears later,
when a private law school conducted in
the town of Lexington was incorpor-
ated into Washington College.

The School of Law became one of
the regular schools of the University—then Washington
College—as the result of a resolution adopted by the
board of trustees on June 22, 1870, although there had
been a more or less well-defined department of law con-
nected with the college since 1866.

of lack of

The early history of the law school is interesting. It
had its origin in the Lexington Law School, organized
by Judge John White Brokenbrough in 1849. John
Brockenbrough was judge of the district court of the
United States for the western district of Virginia. He
was a lawyer of deep learning, with great talent for
teaching. Thinking that the town of Lexington was an
ideal spot for such an enterprise, he organized the Lex-
ington Law School. Tradition has it that the students
travelled the district with the judge and saw justice prac-
tically and actually administered. He did all of the work

 

Dean Moreland

of instruction himself. His school throve until 1861,
when, with the outbreak of the Civil War, it ceased op-
erations. In 1866, Judge Brockenbrough reopened his
school and when General Robert EF. Lee came to Wash-
ington College as its president, he caused Judge Brocken-
brough’s law class to be brought to the college, where its
work was resumed and continued with
a somewhat indefinite connection with
the college until June 22, 1870, when, as
before stated, it became a school of the
institution.

At the same time, the Honorable
John Randolph Tucker, of whose dis-
tinguished record it is not necessary to
speak, was appointed a professor in the
new school. He and Judge Brocken-
brough constituted the faculty. With re-
spect to this organization, the local pa-
per had this to say:

“With such instructors, and a Diplo-
ma approved and signed by General
Robert E. Lee, the graduate of Wash-
ington College Law School would enter
on his career with more than ordinary
prestige and incentive to success.”

The Law School, so made officially
a part of this institution, has continued
to this day. While Judge Brocken-
brough’s law school was a very small
institution, his ideals of teaching were
high and his methods in accordance with the best tradi-
tion. His teaching consisted largely in the illustration of
fundamental doctrines by analysis of leading cases and
his aim was, to quote from an early publication of Wash-
ington and Lee University:

‘“. . . to generate in the mind of the student a taste
for the study of law as an enlarged and rational system
of jurisprudence, and to imbue him with the philosoph-
ical spirit which pervades it throughout all its extensive
ramifications ; to teach him to regard law as a noble and
refined science, and not merely as a crude collection of
arbitrary precedents.”

When Judge Brockenbrough resigned in 1873, John
Randolph Tucker was appointed dean to succeed him,
with Charles A. Graves as his assistant. Mr. Tucker’s
connection with the school ceased with his death in 1897.

LES]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Mr. Graves, assisted by Harry St. George Tucker, was
its dean until 1899, when he resigned to become a mem-
ber of the law faculty of the Department of Law of the
University of Virginia, where his long and distinguished
career is known to the legal profession throughout the
entire country. Upon Mr. Tucker’s resignation in 1902,
William Reynolds Vance was appointed dean. He re-
signed in 1903 and is at present, and has been for many
years, a member of the law faculty of the Yale Law
School. Martin P. Burks became its dean in 1903 and
continued in that position until he resigned in 1917 to
become one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia, in which position he remained until
his death in 1928. He was succeeded in the position by
Joseph Ragland Long, who remained in that office until
1923, and the present incumbent was appointed.

The law school had no home of its own until 1899,
when the building known so long and affectionately to
Washington and Lee men as “Tucker Hall’’ was erected.
This remained the home of the law school until Decem-
ber 16, 1934, when the building with its entire contents
was destroyed by fire.

 

.
é
:
§
A
-
:
;
;
z
-

 

Prompt and vigorous steps were taken to erect an-
other law building and secure a new law library. The
new Tucker Hall, just completed, occupies the site of
the old building, except that it is in line with the other
buildings of the college front. It is Colonial in design,
matching Newcomb Hall, which stands at the other end
of the college front, and is a beautiful structure which,
together with the other college buildings, makes the col-
lege group at Washington and Lee an architectural gem.

The interior of the new building provides ample lec-
ture rooms and professors’ offices, faculty reading room,
lounge and cloak rooms, and a library room. The di-
mensions of the latter are ninety feet by forty feet, and
it is equipped with shelving for books, tables and chairs,
all of maple, affording students and teachers beautiful
quarters for library work. The law library is at this time
even more adequate than the one we lost, and we expect
to continue to make additions thereto, until it shall be one
of the best in the South.

With this new building and its equipment, we may
confidently state that the man who studies law in this

Continued on page eighteen

 

ie RR he Rat sig ti

ea a

Main hallway looking to library entrance in New Tucker Hall

ea

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Description of Tucker Hall

By CuHar-es P. Licut, JR.
of the Law School Faculty

re BEAUTY of the Washington and [ee campus

who as students have walked upon it.
campus at once calls to mind the familiar white columns
of historic Washington College and of Newcomb Hall.
Today, with the erection of the new ‘Tucker Hall, the
architectural plan for the central group
of buildings has been fulfilled. The new
structure, which is the companion build-
ing to Newcomb Hall, has drawn upon
it for columns, pediment, cornice, and
chimneys, and upon Washington College
for the design of its windows. In size
and shape the new building is modelled
upon Newcomb Hall, but in place of
wings one story high as in the older
building, those in Tucker Hall rise three
stories. The planning is so skillful, how-
ever, that the wings do not detract from
the ample sweep of the central roof,
which runs from the columns at the
front to the pilasters of the rear wall of
the building.

It will be well to give a brief outline
of the general interior plan of the build-
ing before describing it in detail. The
heart of the building is the library room
two stories high, which occupies the en-
tire rear part of the structure. At the
front of the first floor are the offices of
the dean, teachers and typist. Immediately under the li-
brary room is that portion of the building which is set
apart for student aise. On the architects’ plans this part
of the building is described as the basement, but because

is appreciated by many, but most of all by those
Mention of the

of the slope of the land at the rear it possesses the. ad-
vantages of a ground floor. On the upper level of the
basement proper are storage rooms and washroom. In
planning this part of the building, advantage was taken
of the opinions expressed in letters to Dean Moreland
that one of the most important details in law school con-
struction was a centrally located library with offices and
students’ quarters as close by as possible. Since the li-
brary room is two stories in height, the second floor cov-
ers only the front of the building and contains the fac-
ulty library and visitors’ room, a teacher's office, a sem-
inar room and two washrooms. The third floor of the

 

Charles P. Light, Jr.

building is devoted to classrooms and to the upstairs
stack and seminar room.

With this general plan in mind, our journey begins.
We walk through a Colonial entrance door of simple
design into a foyer, essentially square but with a diag-
onal wall at each corner which give an octagonal effect.
During the sunlight
streams through transom panes over the
entrance door, revealing corner niches

morning hours,

which, it is hoped, will some day hold
the statues of the founder and deans of
the School. The large door on the right
side of the foyer opens into the office
of the dean and that on the left, into a
teacher's office. from the
foyer through the hall, on left and right
are offices for other teachers and the

Proceeding

law school typist. Although foyer and
hall alike give the impression of sim-
plicity in decoration, there is no sacri-
fice of essential beauty. The walls of
oyster shell gray with ivory ceiling, the
striking ornamental cornices, the care-
fully panelled lower walls and doors, the
colonial lighting fixtures, and the floor
of black and white terazza in alternate
squares, all contribute to create an im-
pression of dignified beauty. In all of
the other halls of the building, at stair-
case landings, in the dean’s office and in
the students’ lounge, period lighting fixtures of artistic
design enhance the attractiveness of the building. All of
the floors, except those described, are covered with mas-
tic tile in alternate squares of mahogany and maroon
with black border. The subdued tone of the tile floors
sets off with telling effect the ivory of the woodwork.
Continuing down the first floor hall and on a line
with the entrance door, we enter the library, a room of
majestic proportions which for sheer beauty the writer
has never seen surpassed. Two stories high and covering
the entire rear part of the building, the room measures
ninety by forty feet. Through fifteen large windows of
Georgian design with deep casements, a wealth of light
falls upon the gray walls.which reflect it without glare.
Slightly lower ceilings in each of the wing ends of the
room add to its charm. Here we find skillfully conceived

[5 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

cornices above the ivory woodwork surrounding the win-
dows. Inside the room over the entrance door is a beau-
tiful pediment of carved wood supported by two orna-
mental pilasters of classic design. Unusually handsome
bookshelves rising to the height of the window sills are
built into and line the walls of the entire room. In each
wing, four standing
bookcases are placed
to form as many al-
coves in which quiet,
intensive study  be-
comes a real pleasure.
The wall and standing
cases together will ac-
commodate about thir-
teen thousand volumes.
Fourteen large tables,
accompanying chairs,
and a librarian’s desk,
all of period design
and colonial maple fin-
ish, complete the fur-
nishings of the room.
The problem of acous-
tics has been handled
satisfactorily through
the use of special ceil-
ing plaster. When ar-
tificial illumination is
necessary it is fur-
nished by a generous
number of scientifical-
ly constructed lighting
fixtures which are sus-
pended from the ceil-
ing. The same lights,
unique in their effici-
ency, are used in those
rooms of the building
which are not specially
equipped. Thus, day
and night, the library
room is available for
study and reading.
Irom the first floor, we descend by either of two
stairways, which are located outside the library door, to
the students’ section of the building. That part of the
basement which is immediately under the library room
has a ceiling of unusual height and windows which in
size and construction are duplicates of those found on
the second and third floors. On the right as we enter
this level, is the students’ coat and locker room and con-
nected with it is the typing room for the use of an in-
éreasing number of men who type their work. Imme-

 

 

Section of stairway in New Tucker Hall

diately in front of the steps which lead to the lower
level and in the center of this part of the basement is the
panelled students’ lounge, a room of great distinction.
Adjoining the lounge on the west is the round table
room, an especially bright room which serves as an ad-
junct to the lounge. Leaving this room by the hall door,
we come to the outside
west entrance door to
the basement, and
across from the round
table room, to the of-
fice of the student book
agent. Next to it, and
across from the locker
room, is a large room
designed for the re-
ception of books and
for the reconditioning
of those bound in lea-
ther. This process,
which is constantly in
operation, preserves
the leather, and great-
ly enhances the ap-
pearance of the books
in the library. With
the growth of the
school, it may be nec-
essary to use the re-
conditioning room as
an additional locker
room. The document
vault, washroom and
storage rooms are en-
tered from the upper
level of the basement
proper, which is im-
mediately under the
first floor offices.

It will be observed
from the description
of the first and base-
ment floors, that every
inducement has been
offered to the student to spend as much time as is pos-
sible among the law books, or in informal discussion with
the law teachers, but with the lounge available for relax-
ation and the interchange of ideas with his fellow stu-
dents. So far as is known to the writer, the arrangement
just outlined is excelled in few law schools.

It will be remembered that the second floor includes
only the front part of the building, since the library room
is two stories high. That part of this floor which is over

Continued on page eighteen / 6

 

[ 6 |

 

Mee os

hal
ew
om»

s
3
.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Furnishings of the Law Building

By CHartes R. McCDowELi
of the Law School Faculty

N PLANNING the new Law building, the aim of the

architects was to make it look as though it had been

erected at the time Washington College was built.
No detail was overlooked in carrying out this objective.
The result was, despite its modern and fireproof con-
struction, the building came into existence with an ap-
pearance of age. The casual visitor to
the campus, five years from now, will
perhaps never realize that it has not been
here for a hundred years.

When the building committee saw
how perfectly the architects were carry-
ing out their part of the job, they began
to feel that it would be unfortunate to
spoil the effect with inappropriate mod-
ern furniture. It was suggested that a
study be made of furniture found in this
type of building between 1700 and 1800,
and that estimates be made as to the cost
of reproducing such equipment. After
several months of studying furniture
encyclopaedias and after visiting Wil-
liamsburg and other centers of early
Virginia architecture members of the
law faculty presented to Dean More-
land pictures and sketches of propos-
ed tables, desks, chairs, and other
pieces, together with estimates as to the
cost of reproduction. While this study
was being made, Dean Moreland was
corresponding with deans of law schools throughout the
United States, requesting suggestions in regard to the
equipment of the building. Helpful suggestions from a
great many of the law deans were received. Dean More-
land transmitted to President Gaines a report of these
investigations, with a recommendation that a model
of each article of furniture be built for examination by
the architects and the building committee. When the
models were made, Dr. Gaines displayed them to the
committee and architects, and plans for reproducing them
were approved. As a result there is scarcely a piece of
furniture in the Law School the original of which could
not have been found there had the building really been
erected before 1800.

Hard maple with Colonial stain was decided upon as
the most suitable material for all of the furniture except

 

Charles R. McDowell

that for the two front offices and the faculty reading
room, which are finished in walnut. The maple is not
only a durable, close-grained wood with a smooth sur-
face ideally adapted to table and desk tops, but when
treated with Colonial stain, takes on a dark amber color
well suited to the walls and woodwork of the building.

LIBRARY

For the library, which is a magnifi-
cent room ninety feet long, forty feet
wide, and two stories high, sixteen tables
were built, which are nine feet long and
three and one-half feet wide. They are
of the early American refectory type,
with heavy top and stretchers and beau-
tifully turned legs, being almost an exact
copy of an original found in a New
Kngland church, where it was used as a
communion table in 1740. Mr. Wallace
Nutting says the original is the finest
table originated in America.

The library chairs, which are old-
fashioned Hitchcock Windsors with un-
usually graceful lines, have an interest-
ing history. A good many years ago,
the late Matthew Paxton found the or-
iginal of this chair in a Rockbridge
county farmhouse. Impressed with its
beauty, he inquired about it and learned
that it was built by an old cabinet maker
who lived here in the county before 1800. Having a pe-
culiar interest in the history of the county and a great
deal of sentiment about its past, Mr. Paxton bought the
chair, and Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Paxton, Jr., who now
own it, were kind enough to permit it to be reproduced
for the law school. Three hundred copies of the chair
were built, over six thousand rungs being turned by hand
in making them, and not a nail was used, as they are
joined with wooden pegs.

Court Room
With the exception of the library, the most impres-
sive room in the building is the court room, which 1s
used for the large classes. Instead of using commonplace
arm-chairs, of the type usually found in modern class-
rooms, old student desks of the type used in the eight-

Bend

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

eenth century have been installed. These student desks
were suggested by those found in the Wren building
in Williamsburg, but slight alterations were made in the
construction in order to adapt them to the needs of law
students. The general appearance, however, has not been
changed. The alterations were made at the suggestion
of Dean Horack, of Duke University, who used the gen-
eral idea of the Williamsburg student desk in equipping
some of his class rooms. Instead of using benches behind
the desks, as is done in the Wren building, chairs of
the type used in our law library have been installed.

On the teachers’ platform, a judicial dais has been
built which is almost identical with the one found in the
most attractive room in the new Harvard law building,
but the detail was changed to conform to the paneling in
our room. Photographs and specifications of the Har-
vard dais were used as a basis for the design. The remain-
ing two class rooms have been equipped with similar furn-
iture.

STUDENT'S LOUNGE

The students’ lounge, which is the special gift of Mr.

Herbert Fitzpatrick, a member of our Board of Trus-

 

tees, and Chairman of the Building Committee, will be
when completed the most handsomely equipped room in
the building. It is paneled throughout with Oregon knot-
ty pine, and the ceiling is supported by heavy oak beams.
It has been found necessary in this room to sacrifice per-
iod design for comfort, to some extent, and the chairs
and sofas will be of leather. The tables and desks, how-
ever, will be of the period of the building.

FACULTY READING Room

The furnishings of the faculty reading room, the gift
of Dr. George Bolling Lee, as a memorial to his bro-
ther, Robert Edward Lee, III, have been highly com-
plimented by visitors who have gone through the build-
ing in the past few weeks. It is a formal, carpeted room,
with beautifully paneled white walls. The windows are
equipped with Venetian blinds and formal drapery. On
each side of the entrance door there is an old Virginia
sofa, behind each of which stands a walnut table. The
furnishing includes a number of Windsor chairs and
wing chairs of period design.

Continued on page fifteen

- Seer!
ert ec the

ban Fy

ae. ts
Reh ee
aes est

ey

e
es See a "

A view of the library in the New Tucker Hall

|

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Law Library

By Raymon T. JOHNSON
of the Law School Faculty

Se WASHINGTON AND LEE law library was totally

The library was insured for ten thousand dollars. This
money helped to provide funds to finance new library

destroyed in the fire which consumed ‘Tucker Hall.

purchases. The Carnegie Foundation contributed anoth-
er ten thousand dollars to further this purpose.

The assembling of an adequate law library 1s no easy
task. Much of the necessary material is
out of print. A diligent search for sec-
ond-hand books is a_ time-consuming
undertaking. This work was done by
Dean Moreland with the assistance of
Mr. Williams. The discriminating pur-
chases made by them amount to about
nine thousand volumes, being some
twenty-five hundred volumes less than
the number in the old library. The books
thus far procured, however, are in much
better condition than those which com-
prised the former collection. It is felt
that the material obtained represents a
satisfactory working library which can
be made adequate to the essential work
of the school by the purchase of a few
additional sets.

The largest item acquired in the

library replacement program is_ the
National Reporter System compris-

ing the Atlantic, the Northeastern, the
Northwestern, the Pacific, the
(2d Series), the Federal, the Federal (2d

Series), the Federal Supplement and Supreme Court
Reporters. These sets represent the reports of the courts
of last resort of all the states and the Federal courts for
the past fifty years. These reports which amount to about

Pacific

twenty-one hundred and fifty volumes, were bought new
from the West Publishing Company at a liberal discount.

The law school was presented with two sets of the
Supreme Court reports from the date of its formation
to a period well beyond the beginning of the Reporter
System. The school is indebted to Mr. John Randolph
Tucker, of Richmond, and Mr. George White Chaney,
of Roanoke, for these two gifts.

The reports up to the Reporter System have been
assembled with the exception of the reports of nine
states. These reports were purchased second-hand and

 

Raymon T. Johnson

are in remarkably fine condition. In this connection
should be acknowledged a gift of the earlier Michigan
Reports by the University of Michigan Law School. Mr.
Robert B. Tunstall, of Richmond, presented the library
with a set of the New York Reports to Volume 16/7,
while Mr. Robert Hobson of Louisville, Ky., gave a new
set of the Kentucky Decisions.

The law school has acquired a com-
plete set of the Annotated Reports ma-
terial. This covers the American Decis-
ions, the American Reports, the Amer-
ican State Reports, the Lawyers’ Reports
Annotated, Lawyers’ Reports Annotated
(New Series), the American Law Re-
ports Annotated, the American and Eng-
lish Annotated Cases, the English Rul-
ing Cases and the British Ruling Cases.
All of these are in excellent shape and
were obtained from a variety of sources.

The American Digest System, in-
cluding the Century Digest, the First
Decennial Digest, the Second Decennial
Digest, the Third Decennial Digest and
the Current Digest, was secured at a
most attractive price. The standard en-
cyclopedias were purchased soon after
the fire. These embrace Ruling Case
Law, Corpus Juris, the Encyclopedia of
Pleading and Practice, the Cyclopedia
of Law and Procedure, and the Amer-
ican and English Encyclopedia of Law.
A fair selection of text-books has been procured through
gifts and purchase.

The law school is particularly proud of the English
material which it was able to obtain. The library now
includes the English Reprint and a complete set of the
English Law Reports since the Reprint, together with
a full collection of English statutes. These books are ex-
tremely valuable and are in the best possible condition.
The Canadian Supreme Court Reports have likewise
been secured.

It has been the good fortune of the school to locate
and acquire complete sets of the following law reviews:
The American Bar Association Journal, the Chicago
Law Review, the Cincinnati Law Review, the Columbia
Law Review, the Cornell Law Quarterly, the George

La

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington Law Review, the Harvard Law Review, the
Illinois Law Review, the Law Quarterly Review, the
Michigan Law Review, the Minnesota Law Review, the
Nebraska Law Bulletin, the Pennsylvania Law Review,
the Southern California Law Review, the Tennessee Law
Review, the Texas Law Review, and the Virginia Law
Review. In addition the law school has obtained the fol-
lowing law reviews in part: The Air Law Review, the
Boston Law Review, the California Law Review, the
Canadian Bar Review, the lowa Law Review, the New
York University Law Review, the North Carolina Law
Review, the Notre Dame Lawyer, the Oregon Law Re-
view, the St. Louis Law Review, the Tulane Law Review,
the West Virginia Law Quarterly, the Wisconsin Law
Review and the Yale Law Journal. No effort has been
made to state the official titles of these reviews, but
merely to indicate the university and other publications
already procured. It is in this field that the material is
becoming very difficult to locate. The success here achiev-
ed in little more than a year is especially noteworthy.

In conclusion, the present needs of the library should
be pointed out. These needs are immediate and pressing.
It is necessary to effective work that the law school ob-
tain the reports, up to the Reporter System, of the fol-
lowing remaining jurisdictions: Alabama, Connecticut,
Delaware, District of Columbia, Louisiana, Maine, Miss-
issippi, New Hampshire, North Carolina and South Car-
olina. These sets are procurable at prices ranging from
one hundred to three hundred dollars, with the exception
of Maine at about six hundred dollars, and New Hamp-
shire at about nine hundred dollars. The growing scar-
city of the reports of the last-mentioned states accounts
for the prices at which they are quoted.

The school stands in great need of the Shepherd Ci-
tators to the National Reporter System, which can be
bought for about four hundred dollars. The earlier vol-
umes of the law reviews acquired in part should be the
object of relentless search. Prices for such vary with the
degree of scarcity. The United States Code Annotated,
at a price of two hundred and sixty dollars, is practically
indispensable. A fuller collection of new text material is
essential. The New York Supplement, at a cost of about
five hundred dollars new, is an item that could be used
to advantage. The faculty reading room stands in great
need of additional quasi-legal material in the nature of
Beveridge’s Life of Marshall, Holmes’ History of the
Common Law and Cardozo’s Nature of the Judicial
Process and other works of that type.

The needs thus outlined represent no frills. Practi-
cally every law school of importance in the United States
possesses all of this material and much in addition. Our
present library is much smaller in size than those of
comparable law schools. An excellent beginning has been

made. Only a vigorous effort to obtain the additions
mentioned will provide the school with facilities to do
the type of work which we expect of the students.

The law library room, occupying the entire first floor
of the rear wing of the new law building, is large and
beautifully furnished. The stacks and tables are arranged
so as to provide seclusion for quiet study. The increas-
ing use of the library by the students is gratifyingly ap-
parent. A trained law librarian who could care for the
library, instruct in the use of law books and do a limited
amount of teaching would be of incalculable benefit.

That so much has been done in a limited time creates
high hope for future improvement. The arduous labor of
replacement shows excellent results. Material has been
carefully chosen and funds wisely spent. Gifts from in-
terested persons have been too numerous to acknowledge
in detail. By unremitting effort it is hoped to make this
law library one of the best in the entire South. In this
undertaking the continued assistance of alumni and other
friends of the University is earnestly sought and con-
fidently expected.

 

To The Building Committee

THE EprTors OF The Alumni Magazine have devoted
this isue almost exclusively to the new law school, and
offer you a series of detailed articles by members of the
law faculty dealing with various phases of New Tucker
Hall. A few words of editorializing on the part of the
editors, however, is only proper—editorializing in ap-
preciation of the work of the building committee and all
others associated with the construction of one of the
finest law school homes in the South.

Members of the building committee, who worked
faithfully and worked long in perfecting the plans, were
named. shortly after the fire of 1934. They were:

James L. Caskie of Lynchburg, chairman of the
board of trustees; John Randolph Tucker of Richmond ;
Dean W. H. Moreland of the law school; Frank J. Gil-
liam, dean of students; and Dr. R. W. Dickey of the
faculty. Dr. Gaines, of course, was a member of each
group associated with the project.

We shall not attempt to list all of those who worked
for the completion of the building. There are those who
conducted the financial campaign ; those who worked with
the architects; the architects themselves, Philip Small of
Cleveland and the firm of Carneal, Johnston and Wright
of Richmond, Va.; and many others.

It simply wasn’t possible to let this issue go to press
without these few words, although these particular indi-
viduals have had their say in one way or another—this
issue is primarily to give members of the faculty an op-
portunity to have their say.—R. P.C,

[ 10 ]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Development of the Law Curriculum

By Crayton Epes WILLIAMS
of the Law School Faculty

ae ScHoot oF LAw of Washington and Lee Uni-

A versity originated in a private school organized by
Judge John White Brockenbrough in 1849 known as the
Lexington Law School. The school was discontinued
during the War Between the States but was reopened in
1866, when, at the suggestion of General Lee, who was
then President of Washington College,
Judge Brockenbrough’s law class was
held at the college. It did not become of-
ficially a part of the college until June
22, 1870. However, during this time
Judge Brockenbrough’s
known as the Department of Law and

classes were
Equity because in the minutes of June
22, 1870, of the Board of Trustees of
the College there is the report of the
committee “to which was referred the
resolutions in relation to the Department
of Law and Equity.’ This committee,
among other things recommended :

“That the Law Department shall
hereafter be one of the regular Schools
of the College and that the Professors
thereof shall be regular members of the
Faculty.”

This recommendation was adopted
by the Board.

Up to that time Judge Brocken-
brough had done all of the teaching, but
Trustees at the same
meeting at which it established the School of Law ap-
pointed the Honorable John Randolph Tucker as an ad-
ditional professor of law. The Department of Law and

the Board of

Kquity was divided into two schools. The School of Com-
mon and Statute Law was taught in two classes, Junior
and Senior, by Judge Brockenbrough. The text books
used were Blackstone’s Commentaries, Smith on Con-
tracts, Stephens on Pleading, Greenleaf on Evidence,
Williams on Real, and Williams on Personal Property.
The School of Equity and Public Law was organized in
the same way with Professor Tucker teaching the classes.
The text books used were Vattell’s International Law,
Smith’s Mercantile Law, Adams on Equity, and Barton’s
Suit in Equity.

lt is interesting to note that among the reference
books listed for students are Smith’s Leading Cases and

 

Clayton E.

White and Tudor’s Leading Cases in Equity. The special
leaflet gotten out in 1870 after the formal incorporation
of the Department of Law into the college also states:

“In both Schools special attention will be given to
Leading Cases in Law and Equity, which will be thor-
oughly discussed.” In fact the college catalogue of 1869
carried this statement:

“Discussion of leading cases in Law
and Equity constitutes a prominent, and,
it is believed, a most valuable feature of
the plan of instruction adopted. Very
free use is made of those admirable
works, Smith’s Leading Cases, Amer-
ican Leading Cases and Leading Cases
in Equity.” However, this was in no
sense the introduction of the case sys-
tem of instruction as it was introduced
in the Harvard Law School by Profes-
sor Langdell some years later, but was
rather the germ of the Text Book and
Illustrative Case System so long used
in this law school. In fact the special
leaflet of 1870 says, ‘The instruction is
given by Lecture and Examination.”’ It
also states that “A of the
principles and pleadings in Criminal
Law . will be carefully presented in
lectures,” and that “the professor will
endeavor by lecture to elucidate the
principles of Political Science and Con-
stitutional Law.” In fact we may say that during this first
period the Lecture System of instruction was predomi-

discussion

Williams

nantly used.

Judge Brockenbrough resigned in 1873 and the Hon-
orable John Randolph ‘Tucker succeeded him as dean of
the law school. Mr. Charles A. Graves was appointed
Professor of Common and Statute Law. The original or-
ganization of the school continued until 1896 with the
two schools and a junior and senior class—each class
meeting for an hour and a half a day and each professor
teaching one class. The Senior class met from ten o'clock
to half-past eleven and the Junior class met from twelve
o'clock to half-past one. The catalogue of 1895 states:
‘The course is so arranged as to render possible its com-
pletion in one session of nine months. This enables dili-
gent and earnest young men, whose means or time is

[ 11 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

limited, to prepare themselves for the Bar by a single
year’s unremitting study. Students are advised, however,
to devote two years to the course of Law.” The school
session was divided into three terms with examinations
held at the end of each. The passing grade was eighty
and this had been true since 1880.

In 1896 Mr. John W. Davis was elected as the third
member of the faculty. With this addition to the faculty
a Department of Commercial Law was added to the
school and there was for the first time really a two-year
law course. The catalogue states:

‘As has been stated above the course is now so en-
larged that to take the whole course in one session re-
quires attendance on lectures thirty hours a week; and
this together with the written opinions and moot court
work renders, it is believed, graduation in one year ex-
tremely difficult, if not well-nigh impossible.”

There were now fifteen hours of junior and fifteen
hours of senior class work each week.

On the death of Dean John Randolph Tucker in
1897, Mr. Graves became dean and Mr. Harry St. George
Tucker became Professor of Equity and Corporation
Law, and of Constitutional and International Law. Mr.
Davis resigned after teaching for one year to go into
active practice, and Mr. William Reynolds Vance was
elected Adjunct Professor of Commercial Law to suc-
ceed him.

At this time the classes ran continuously from nine
o'clock to two. The Junior courses given were Real Prop-
erty, Wills and Administrations, Contracts, Bailments
and Carriers during the first term; Agency, Partnership,
Insurance, Corporations and Domestic Relations during
the second term; and Personal Property and Sales, Ne-
gotiable Paper, and International and Constitutional
Law during the third term. The Senior courses were
Equity, Torts and Crimes during the first term; Plead-
ing and Practice at Law and Criminal Procedure, Moot
Court during the second term; and Equity Pleading,
Federal Procedure, Evidence and Conflict of Laws dur-
ing the last term.

In 1875 a special leaflet on the “School of Law and
Equity” listed the names of six special lecturers along
with the names of the regular faculty. Two of these lec-
turers were judges of the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia. This leaflet states :

“The Board of Trustees, as supplementary to the
regular course, have procured the aid of the distinguished
lecturers above named, who will bring all the learning
of judicial station, with the experience of every day
practice, to illustrate and enforce the abstract learning
of text books and Professorial Lectures.”

This custom of listing lecturers in the catalogue was
continued down to 1905. It is interesting to note that the

catalogue of 1897-98 lists Mr. Paul M. Penick, our
present treasurer, as a “Lecturer on Accounts of Fiduc-
iaries and Reports of Commissioners in Chancery.”

On the resignation of Dean Graves in 1898, the
Honorable Harry St. George Tucker became dean. Mr.
William I, Clark was elected as the third member of
the regular faculty. In the catalogue of that year a fourth
department, the Department of Economics, taught by
Dr. H. Parker Willis, appeared. The subjects listed in
the department were Money, Banking, Finance and La-
bor Legislation. This department did not continue long
as such, but Dr. Willis continued to teach a course in
Money and Banking until 1905.

In 1899 Tucker Memorial Hall was opened. In the
same year Mr. Martin P. Burks joined the law faculty,
replacing Mr. Clark.

In 1902 the arrangement of courses by departments
was discontinued and the subjects were listed as junior
or first year courses, and senior or second year courses.
At this time each professor taught one and oue-half
hours a day, the first class began at none o’clock and the
last class ended at half-past one. The Junior courses
listed were Elementary Law, Domestic Relations, Per-
sonal Property, Carriers, Contracts, Agency, Real Prop-
erty, Constitutional and International Law, Negotiable
Instruments, Wills and Administrations, Criminal Law
and Procedure. The senior courses were Pleading and
Practice at Law, Equity and Equity Pleading, Federal
Procedure, Torts, Evidence, Conveyancing, Corpora-
tions, Partnership, Conflict of Laws, Money and Bank-
ing, and Admiralty. In the catalogue for this year ap-
pears the first suggestion that at least one year of aca-
demic training should be had before a student entered
the law school. This is “strongly recommended” but not
required. It was stated that it was “expected that all stu-
dents applying for entrance shall have had the advan-
tage of a good English education at least.”

On the resignation of Dean Tucker in 1902, Mr.
Vance became dean and Mr. Joseph R. Long became
the third member of the faculty. By this time instruction
by formal lectures had been practically abandoned. The
catalogue of that year states that the method of in-
struction was a combination of the text book, illustrative
cases and lectures, but then goes on to add:

“Experience, however, has demonstrated that in
nearly all cases far better results may be obtained from
informal discussions with the students than from formal
discourses to them. More importance is attached to the
ability to think accurately along legal lines than to mere
knowledge of text-books and precedents, and the guiding
purpose of the instructor in his discussions with his class
is to inculcate habits of thought by showing the fallacies
in the line of reasoning by which erroneous conclusion

[ 12 ]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

has been reached, whether by the student then reciting,
or by a court in a decision rendered, or by the author
of a text-book then being studied.”

Mr. Vance having resigned, Mr. Burks was appoint-
ed dean in 1905, and Mr. Abram P. Staples was added
to the faculty. Dr. John H. Latane appears in the cata-
logue for that year as Professor on International Law.
Beginning with the session of 1906 two years of study
was required for the law degree. Beginning with 1908
a student was required to present the units required for
college entrance in order to enter the law school.

During the deanship of Mr. Burks the use of illus-
trative cases was emphasized and the students were en-
couraged to use the law library. The catalogue of 1904
states: “It is believed that the ‘laboratory method’ so ex-
tensively and successfully adopted in teaching other
sciences, should be used equally extensively in a thor-
ough and practical course of legal instruction.”

In the catalogue of 1909 a three-year course in law 1s
outlined, but its content was the same as the regular two-
year course, the one usually adopted by the students.

In 1912 Mr. Robert W. Withers was added to the
faculty thus making a faculty of four full-time law
teachers. In this year Dr. Latane resigned from the Uni-
versity, but the course in International Law.was con-
tinued by another member of the law faculty. At this
time the first-year class was so large that some of the
courses had to be taught in sections. For this reason the
addition of a fourth man did not bring about any ma-
terial increase in the number of courses given. However,
two new courses wereadded and other improvements made.

While the law faculty was composed of three profes-
sors, each professor taught one class a day for a period
of an hour and a half. Classes began at nine o'clock and
ran until two o'clock with an intermission from half past
ten until eleven. With the addition of a fourth teacher,
the class periods were cut to an hour and a quarter and
ran continuously from nine until two o'clock. Each pro-
fessor taught one class a day.

Mr. Staples died on September 30, 1913, and Messrs
EK. S. Shields, J. L. Campbell and Clovis Moomaw con-
ducted his classes during the fall term. Then Mr. Moo-
maw was appointed Acting Professor for the remainder
of the year and in the following June was elected as As-
sociate Professor to succeed Mr. Staples.

At the end of the session of 1914 Mr. Withers re-
signed to resume the practice of law and Mr. Holden
Bovee Schermerhorn was appointed professor of law to
succeed him. During this summer Dean Burks was given
a leave of absence from teaching in order to devote his
time to the work of revising the Code of Virginia. Mr.
William Haywood Moreland was elected to the faculty
as professor of law and took over the teaching of the

classes formerly taught by Dean Burks. Dean Burks
continued as Dean of the Law School until he resigned
to become judge on the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia in 1917, but he did no regular teaching in the
law school after 1914. Thus during this time there was
a dean and four regular teachers. In 1916 Mr. Schermer-
horn resigned and Mr. Edwin Merrick Dodd was elect-
ed to the vacancy thus created. By this time the teaching
of the first year class in sections had been discontinued.
The time thus made available for teaching was used in
expanding courses already being given. In the catalogue
for 1916 a three-year law course is outlined as the nor-
mal course. Following this is a “Two-Year Course’”’
which is said to be an arrangement of studies “for stu-
dents entering as candidates for a degree in two years.”
Mr. Dodd used the modern case books in all of his
courses and taught by the case system.

For several years prior to his death Mr. Staples had
conducted a summer law school in Tucker Hall as a pri-
vate venture. If a student failed a course during the reg-
ular session, he would be given credit in the law school
on his successful completion of the course in the summer
school. This school was continued by Mr. Moomaw after
the death of Mr. Staples. In the law school catalogue of
1916 an announcement of a summer school appears for
the first time. The catalogue states: “The Summer Law
School will begin its seventh session on June 19, 1916.”
The summer school was now under the direction of Mr.
Moreland with Mr. Moomaw assisting him. In addition
to make up work, attendance at the summer session
might be used to satisfy residence prerequisites for a
degree in the. regular school. As the school then ran on
the three term plan, the summer school came very near
to being a summer quarter. Due to war conditions the
summer school was discontinued in 1918 and has never
been revived. Mr. Burke resigned his deanship in 1917
to go on the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia and
Mr. Long was appointed dean.

At the end of the 1918 session Mr. Moomaw and Mr.
Dodd resigned to enter the service during the war. Mr.
James Quarles was elected to fill the vacancy left by
Mr. Moomaw, but no one was appointed to succeed Mr.
Dodd. Owing to war conditions the law school did not
open in the fall of 1918, but work was begun again in
January, 1919. Some of the regular courses were not
given during that year and the three teachers doubled up
on the courses formerly taught by Mr. Dodd. During
the summer of 1919 Mr. Quarles resigned and Mr. Clay-
ton E,. Williams was appointed to succeed him, and Mr.
Lewis Tyree was appointed to succeed Mr. Dodd so that
the law school opened in the fall of 1919 with a faculty
of four full-time teachers. The curriculum for that year
was somewhat disorganized because of the necessity of

[ 13 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

providing for men whose law work had been interrupted
by the war.

During the summer of 1920 Mr. Lewis Berkley Cox
was added to the faculty. Thus the law school faculty
was increased to five full-time teachers. It has remained
at this number ever since. Again the addition of another
teacher did not bring about an increase in the number
of subjects taught, but gave an opportunity to expand
some of the courses already being given, and also io
modernize the curriculum. The course in Common Law
Pleading was divided into a course on Pleading and one
in Civil Procedure. The course in Real Property was di-
vided into three courses. Beginning with this session
three years of resident study was required for gradua-
tion. During the war period the length of the recitation
period had been reduced to one hour. This change be-
came permanent. The case book again made its appear-
ance as the basis of instruction and we have now reached
the third stage in the development of the method of in-
struction used. Instead of the basis of instruction being
the text book with illustrative cases, the cases are the
basis of instruction and the text book and law review
articles are the reference works. It was the addition of
a fifth teacher that made this transition possible because
the case method of instruction requires more time to
cover the same subject matter than does the method of
instruction by either lectures or text. By 1926 every
course in the law school was being taught by case method.

With the requirement of three years of work for
graduation.it became possible to conduct more than one
class at the same time and the schedule was arranged so
that usually a first and third year course were taught at
the same hour with a second year course being taught at
alternate hours. The hours of teaching by each professor
was raised from six to eight in 1922. In this year other
important changes were made. One year of college work
was required for entrance into the law school and the
following year two years were required. The three-term
system was abandoned and the semester system adopted,
with examinations being held twice a year. The passing
grade was lowered from the traditional 80 to 75. Mr.
James B. Noell succeeded Mr. Cox, who resigned to go
into practice. Mr. Noell resigned at the end of the year
and was succeeded by Mr. T. X. Parsons.

In 1923 Mr. Moreland became dean. Dr. Long re-
signed to accept a professorship in the University of
Colorado, and Messrs. John S. Strump and George T.
llolbrook, members of the third year class, were ap-
pointed instructors to help the other professors carry the
courses formerly taught by Dr. Long. Mr. Parsons had
resigned at the end of the preceeding year and Mr. Ho-
mer A. Holt had been elected to succeed him. In this
year the absolute requirement of two years of college

work for entrance into the law school was applied to all
students seeking admission, thus excluding all special
students. It was also made possible for a student who
had completed three years of college work to have the
first year of law counted as equivalent to his fourth year
in the academic school and obtain his academic degree.
Thus a student could by combining the courses get his
academic degree and law degree in six years instead of
seven.

In 1924 Mr, Albert Levitt was elected to the faculty.
In the catalogue of that year a pre-legal two-year course
was suggested for the first time.

In 1926 the number of hours was raised from eight
to nine. Mr. Raymon T. Johnson became a member
of the faculty, succeeding Mr. Holt, who resigned to go
into practice. Mr. Tyree was granted a year’s leave of
absence to teach in the New Jersey Law School, and
Mr. T. C. Billig was appointed to teach his courses dur-
ing the year. At the end of the year Mr. Johnson re-
signed to engage in practice, and Mr. Charles P. Light
was appointed to succeed him. At the end of the 1927
session Mr. Levitt resigned, and Mr. Raymon T. John-
son returned to the institution to succeed him. Mr. Tyree
also resigned to accept a position in the New Jersey
School of Law, and Mr. Charles R. McDowell took his
place. There have been no changes in the law school fac-
ulty since that time. For the session of 1928-29 the
schedule of classes was changed and classes began at
eight-thirty and ran until twelve-thirty, followed by an
hour’s intermission for lunch with an afternoon class
from one-thirty to two-thirty. The passing grade was
changed from 75 to 70. Beginning with the session of
1934-35 the passing grade was put at 60, but an average
grade of 70 was required for graduation.

On the night of December 16, 1934, Tucker Hall
with all of its contents was destroyed by fire. After the
Christmas holidays the regular class work was resumed
in temporary quarters scattered through the other Uni-
versity buildings. This condition continued until the new
Tucker Hall was completed during February of this
year. During the whole of its existence the development
of the Law School has been normal and steady. There
have been few, if any, sudden and radical changes, but
development has always been progressive. During all of
its history there has been a set curriculum and all the
courses given have been required for graduation. In the
opinion of the writer the next step in the development
will be the addition of a sixth teacher to the faculty
which will make possible the addition of elective courses.
The field of law is so wide that it is impossible to require
a student to complete an adequate course in all the sub-
jects of the law in three years. Our present curriculum
requires the completion of more than the normal number

[ 14 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of hours required for graduation, and contains all of the
subjects that are gssential to a sound training in law,
but there are courses of equal importance with some of
those given which have to be omitted. The curriculum
should be enlarged so that the students might have an
election of courses to fit himself for some particular
branch of practice. A sixth teacher would make this pos-
sible. With the splendid new building and equipment and
the high reputation that this school enjoys, it would seem
that we stand on the threshold of a new era of develop-
ment. What appeared to be a tragedy on the night of
December 16, 1934 was but the beacon light summoning
us to broader fields of endeavor and higher planes of
usefulness.

 

Furnishings of the Law Library

Continued from page eight

FACULTY OFFICES

As far as is consistent with utility, the faculty offices
have also been furnished in the period. The desks are
reproductions of an old English writing table which
Dean Moreland has in his home, and which he generous-
ly permitted to be copied. The Dean’s suite and Mr. Wil-
liams’ office have been furnished in walnut, and Colonial
maple is used in the other offices.

SEMINAR Rooms

The building includes two seminar rooms, a small
one on the second floor and a large one on the third floor.
These rooms are equipped with tables and chairs of the
same type used in the library.

TypInc Room

When Dean Moreland wrote to various law deans
for advice in furnishing the building, a number of them
suggested the advisability of including a large, light
room, equipped with tables which the students might use
for their typewriters in preparing briefs, Most law stu-
dents use typewriters a great deal, and because adequate
facilities are seldom provided, they do most of their
work in their homes. Dean Moreland, having long ad-
vocated the policy of encouraging greater use of the law
library, has made every effort to encourage the students
to work in the building. For this reason a room has been
set aside for typing, and lockers have been installed
which are large enough to hold portable typewriters and
casebooks and notebooks. As a result of this provision,
a surprising number of our students now do a major
part of their preparation in the building, and there is an
appreciably greater use of the reference library.

Note: It may be of interest to the alumni to know
that most of the furniture in the law building was built

in our own college workshop, or by other persons in Lex-
ington employed by the college. The chairs were made in
Lexington by Mr. R. C. Stanley; the turnings for the
table legs, by Mr. Stanley; Mr. Bruce Agnor, who is in
charge of the University carpenter shop, assembled and
joined all of the tables and student desks. A large part
of the finishing work was done by Mr. Herbert Agnor.
A considerable amount of drafting and other work re-
quiring engineering skill were involved. All of this was
done by Professor Veech of our own engineering de-
partment. The Law school is greatly indebted to him.

 

To The Finance Committee

T0O HIGH TRIBUTE cannot be paid the men who under-
took to direct the financial angle of the new Tucker Hall,
so the editors of the Alumni Magazine here acknowledge
formally that group’s contribution along with that of the
building committee, mentioned editorially on another page.

After the fire of 1934, a finance committee was named,
headed by Herbert Fitzpatrick of Cleveland as chairman,
and a better choice could not have been made. Under Mr.
Fitzpatrick’s direction an office for conducting the cam-
paign was set up in Lexington which was supervised by
John Darnall, staunch friend of the University.

To Mr. Fitzpatrick and his committee the University
and all persons associated with it owe a lasting expression
of gratitude-—and that gratitude has been expressed by
those who contributed both financially and morally to the
erection of New Tucker Hall.

As someone has aptly said: “It’s a pity we cannot
give concrete individual thanks to each man who helped
build the new law school home.”

And as someone replied: “The New Tucker Hall
represents our thanks.”

Other members of the finance committee besides Mr.
Fitzpatrick were: Newton D. Baker; John W. Davis;
Dr. George Bolling Lee; William McChesney Martin ;
Fowler McCormick; Walter A. McDonald; Governor
Peery of Virginia; George W. St. Clair, and Dr. Gaines.

—R. P.C.

 

Art and Music Courses

UNDER A PLAN approved by the faculty, Washington
and lee university next year will offer two full-term
courses in the history and appreciation of art and music.

Addition of the two courses to the Washington and
lee curriculum was proposed last year to the university
board of trustees by Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Lee. He was authorized at the time to
appoint a committee to investigate the subject.

University officials expect to add a new member of
the faculty to teach the new courses.

It was pointed out that the art and music courses
will enable the university to make full use of the recent
gift of works of art and books on art by the Carnegie
Foundation. This collection, on which a high value is
placed, is housed at present in the Carnegie library at
Washington and Lee.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of Washington and Lee,
said that the music and art courses probably will be of-
fered only to juniors and seniors. It is expected that they
will be grouped with English, psychology, philosophy
and public speaking.

Student sentiment as expressed by The Ring-tuim Phi,
student newspaper, for the past several years has favored
the addition of music and art appreciation courses to the
Washington and Lee course of study.

 

A Description of Tucker Hall

Continued from page six

the foyer and front offices is given over to the faculty
library and reading room. This handsome room will be
used by the trustees and faculty, by visiting attorneys
who are using the law library, by students’ parents who
may be in Lexington, and by visitors generally. A sem-
inar room, teacher’s office, wash rooms and a fan room
holding the cooling mechanism for the library, complete
the arrangement of this floor.

Reaching the landing on the third floor, we enter a
large foyer from which two doors lead into the court

room which is somewhat over forty feet square. This

room and the foyer together cover the entire front part
of the building. From the windows which face west,
south and east, we see the roof of Washington College,
the campus in the direction of Buena Vista, and the
Blue Ridge mountains toward East Lexington. All meet-
ings of the first year class are held in the court room.
The students’ desks in the room face toward the north
side, where the teaching rostrum is located. Affixed to
the rostrum across the front and on each side up to the
step is a panelled screen, which follows the best law
school design. The rostrum and screen are finished in
the same colonial maple finish as the students’ desks and
chairs. Above the rostrum and visible from any point
in the room is a twelve-foot slate blackboard, especially
well adapted to teaching. The ceiling in this room and
the two classrooms is finished with acoustical plaster.

Leaving the court room and walking north through
the foyer and down three steps, we enter that part of
the third floor which is over the library room. In the
wings are the two smaller classrooms, forty by thirty
feet, equipped in the same manner as the court room.
Between these two rooms is the seminar and auxiliary
stackroom with present accommodation for 4,000 vol-
umes. Here, looking out the windows toward the moun-
tains across Wood’s Creek Valley we end our journey.

This description of the building has stressed the
beauty of its design, the effective arrangement of rooms,
and the availability of the equipment for ready use. Each
of these factors will play its part as an incentive to the
zealous pursuit of the study of the law. But they are
not all. Pervading the new structure are the spirit and
the tradition of high achievement, our heritage from the
past. We can be happy in the realization that the new
Tucker Hall, with its modern equipment, will afford an
even greater opportunity for giving expression to that
fine spirit.

 

wes

First group of students to attend classes in New Tucker Hall

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

From Chaos to Regimentation

By Joun THOMAS
Student in the Law School

ONDAY, February 17, 1936, will not be remember-

ed by the average Washington and Lee student.
To them there was nothing particularly noteworthy about
this day—just another Blue Monday. In the vicinity of
Washington College the same weary line of Academic
students were making the supreme effort to answer the
8:30 bell which to them marked the beginning of an-
other monotonous week of routine. At the extreme North
end of the campus, however, an entirely different feeling
manifested itself. To those of us who study law at Wash-
ington and Lee, this otherwise uninteresting day marked
the beginning of a new era. The doors of a new and in-
finitely greater Tucker. Hall were, for the first time,
thrown open to the law classes as students, and not as
architectural critics, pseudo-building inspectors or merely
casual observers.

There were no bands playing, no dedicatory speeches
or ceremonies of any description. The entrance was the
essence of utter simplicity even to the extent of using
the back door in order to avoid foot-printing the immac-
ulate terrazzo floor of the front hallway. The students
just casually walked in as though it were a part of their
daily routine. But this outward display of emotional
equilibrium would indeed be an erroneous standard by
which to measure the feeling of sheer pleasure permeat-
ing the entire personnel of the law school. The heartfelt
appreciation of those whose olfactory nerves had shout-
ed, “Treason!” upon their enforced inhabitance of the
abode of the chemist; those whose vital energies had
been sapped by the incessant rush from one building to
another, was all too deep for words.

December 16, 1934, was the date on which the death
knell of the old Rockbridge county grey limestone mon-
strosity sounded. Some careless spark of unknown origin
set the conflagration which was to banish the embryo
lawyers to unforeseen quarters. On the night of this un-
precedented disaster, perhaps the most fatal known to
Washington and Lee University, confusion waxed high.
Humorous and pathetic incidents intermingled. Profes-
sor Johnson, who watched his toiled-over notes disap-
pear in the flames, turned to a group of students and
with a brave smile said, ‘“There it goes. Now you know
as much about it as I do.” Such incidents were numerous,
in spite of the cynical remark of some of the bystanders
who implied that the coldness of the cases of most of
the unfortunate students was enough to freeze out any

fire. Nevertheless, on the next morning, all that remained
of old Tucker Hall were a few charred blocks of lime-
stone. A sense of forlorness was rampant. But on that
fateful night when so many hard-earned manuscripts
perished, when the work of years was reduced to ashes
in a moment’s time, there were some who envisioned a
new and beautiful edifice which would rise, phoenix like,
from the smoking ruins of the old.

The immediate situation, however, was enough to
send despair into the hearts of even the most optimistic.
To obtain law school facilities in an already over-bur-
dened university was a problem of no little moment, par-
ticularly when the approaching examinations made the
time element of the utmost importance. As always the
case, students and faculty co-operated as a single unit.
Rooms which had been the exclusive possession of en-
gineers and chemists, rooms in which biological maestros
had held sway, were donated to the enseigners of the
legal art. Warrens and Willistons were placed side by
side with formaldehyde-filled jars of defunct crayfish.
Many practical situations took on more significance to
the harrassed professors and students when they were
concretely illustrated. The need for the law of nuisance
was impressively demonstrated when its tenets were
studied under the pungent odor of hydrogen sulphide,
a compound which seemed a necessary ingredient in
the solution of every laboratory problem confronting the
science student. Such tragi-comic occurrences were the
rule rather than the exception.

Consider, then, the joy of the law family at being
admitted into a building designed especially for their
needs, built in a manner conforming to the best ideas of
modern educational architecture. Furthermore their joy
was enhanced upon the realization that they were no
longer a sect apart, one consigned to the “Furies” by
every lover of the symmetry of the Washington and Lee
campus. Their new domain was not only the equal in
statuesque loveliness of any single unit on the campus,
but also rounded out the designing plan of a far-seeing
administrator of long ago. Completely modern in facil-
ities, it retained the colonial lines so dear to every Wash-
ington and Lee man, be he alumnus or student.

Looking at this enterprise from all sides, we find it
a fruition of hopes. It has not only created in the present
student group a sense of unity which has been sorely
missed since the burning of old Tucker Hall, but has

[ 17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

brought to life through its student lounge, briefing room,
individual steel lockers and comfortable class rooms, a
realization that study is an end as well as a means. Its
facilities make it possible for the student to complete his
work within the building ; consequently he unconsciously
absorbs an understanding of the spirit of jurisprudence.
There is a certain feeling of pride toward this accom-
plishment, the result of the combined efforts of faculty,
alumni and students. The spirit in which it was built,
the light in which the students regard it, the perfection
inherently within it, make it a true Washington and Lee
undertaking.

 

The School of Law

Continued from page four

law school has for his accommodation and use a law
building which we think is in all respects one of the
best in the country, and a law library adequate for all
of his needs.

The school is a member of the Association of Amer-
ican Law Schools, having been admitted thereto in De-
cember, 1920. When the American Bar Association, in
1923, classified the law schools of the entire country, it
placed thirty-nine schools in the highest class, known as
“Class A.” Only five of these “Class A” schools were in
the South, and the law school of Washington and Lee
University was one of the number. While the list of Class
A, or as they are called today, “Approved,” law schools
has been greatly increased, that law school has always
maintained its standing with the highest.

Complying with the rules of the two organizations
mentioned, it requires of each student that he shall have
completed not less than two years of college work at the
time he enters the school, and no student who lacks this
minimum is admitted; that is to say, it receives no spec-
ial students. It has a faculty of five teachers who devote
all of their time to the work of law teaching. It is not
necessary to point out or elaborate what is generally
known and accepted ; that is, from its very beginning the
school has done sound and thorough work in preparing
men for the legal profession. The long list of its grad-
uates who have attained high professional and judicial
position is eloquent proof of the truth of this statement.

While we should prefer that every man who enters
our law school be a college graduate, we make no such
requirement at this time, but in order to encourage the
matriculation here of men who have already taken the
Bachelor’s degree, the institution makes liberal conces-
sions to such college graduates in the way of scholar-
ships. By recent action of the board of trustees, the Pres-
ident is authorized to award scholarships to such grad-

uates which will effect a very considerable reduction in
fees and which will be effective during the student's
entire residence in the school.

While we were all deeply attached to old Tucker
Hall, everyone realized that it had become inadequate
for the law school’s needs. After its loss, the school went
through a very trying experience, being housed in tem-
porary quarters, with its classes meeting in various rooms
throughout the college. That period is happily past.
Through the generosity of our alumni and sacrifices
made in our behalf by the University, the school has had
provided for its use this very beautiful new Tucker Hall.
We seem to see in our students in their new quarters an
added enthusiasm for the study of law, and we believe
that our school is entering on a new era of increased
usefulness to the legal profession.

 

An Appreciation

A FEW worpbs of appreciation for the work of Dr.
Robert W. Dickey, professor of physics and electrical
engineering and member of the law school building com-
mittee, belong in this issue of The Alumni Magazine,
devoted to the new Tucker Hall.

Dr. Dickey was named on the building committee
immediately following the destruction of Old Tucker
Hall by fire in December, 1934, and has been very much
‘on the job” ever since that appointment.

He has worked
with contractors and
architects during con-
struction of the build-
ing, and as_ superin-
tendent of the power
plant and supervisor
of electrical installa-
tions and operations
on the campus has giv-
en valuable assistance.

Dr. Dickey will
continue his work in
the University’s re-
modeling program by
aiding contractors and
architects in their ren-
ovation of Washing-
ton College; enlarging
of Newcomb Hall;
fireproofing of the li-
brary, and erection of
a new Student Union.

Dr. R. W. Dickey

[ 18 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Tops in Winter Sports

By RicHarp PowELL CARTER

aa ISN'T going to be a sports story, because no

a sports story could do justice to winter sports at
Washington and Lee this year. It’s going to be a column,
with compliments aplenty to coaches and the lads on
the teams.

swimming meet after swimming meet. He took his team
through this season without a defeat and then travelled
down to Duke University and successfully and emphat-
ically defended the Generals’ Southern Conference title.
That meant two Confer-

 

There’s no way to sum-
marize adequately just all the
things that happened for the
best athletically at the Univer-
sity during the winter season
just closed. So suppose we list
them, not necessarily in order
of importance, because all
shared the spotlight :

1. March 20 and 21 the
pick of the nation’s college
wrestlers assembled at Wash-
ington and Lee’s Doremus
gymnasium for the National
Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion’s ninth annual tournament
—a semi-final American Olym-
pic tryout. Oklahoma Univer-
sity won the team title; Hugo
Bonino, W. & L. heavyweight,
qualified for the final Olympic
tryouts.

2. Cy Young’s great bas-
ketball team, which we have
talked about in past issues,

1936 Baseball Schedule

March 23—Ohio State at Lexington
March 24-—Ohio State at Lexington
March 30—William and Mary at Williamsburg
March 31—William and Mary at Williamsburg
April 1—Randolph-Macon at Ashland
April 2—Medical College at Richmond
April 3—Richmond at Richmond

April 4—Richmond at Richmond

April 10—Maryland at Lexington

April 11—Medical College at Lexington
April 13—William and Mary at Lexington
April 14— William and Mary at Lexington
April 18—Virginia at Charlottesville

April 21—North Carolina at Lexington
April 27—-Richmond at Lexington

April 28—Richmond at Lexington

May 1—Virginia Tech at Lexington

May 2—Virginia Tech at Lexington

May 6—Virginia at Lexington

May 8-9—Virginia Tech at Blacksburg
May 14—Georgetown at Georgetown

May 15—Maryland at Maryland

May 16—Navy at Annapolis

ence titles garnered in winter
sports to add to the baseball
crown in the Conference, being
worn now by the Generals as
a result of their record of
eight victories and no defeats
in games with Conference
teams last spring.

It was just a little bit of
tough luck that the “Blue
Comets” had to drop that last
tournament game to North
Carolina. Sports writers agreed
generally that the team was
just tired after such a phe-
nomenal season—and after all
it's only human to tire. The
name ‘Blue Comets” was giv-
en the Washington and Lee
basketeers by virtue of their
flashy work — Captain Pette,
Norman Iler, Earl Carson and
Wes Heath revolved about the
six-foot, seven-inch Bob Spes-
sard like four spinning tops

went down to Raleigh, N. C.,

 

on parade.

 

 

after a brilliant season of 17
victories and one defeat and breezed through to the finals,
when the “Blue Comets” tired after such a strenuous
campaign, and dropped the last game of the tournament
to North Carolina’s Tar Heels by only five points, 50-45.
Sut they gained nation-wide favor for themselves.

3. Coach A. E. Mathis’ matmen chalked up another
spectacular season including victories over Michigan and
Michigan State and climaxed their year’s performances
by winning back the Southern Conference championship
from Virginia Military Institute in the Cadet’s Ninety-
four Hall. (The fine records of Washington and Lee
mat teams for the past six years really brought the na-
tional intercollegiates to Doremus gymnasium. )

4. Cy Twombly has gone along quietly, winning

Pette, [ler and Spessard
were named all-tournament forward, guard and center,
respectively, down at Raleigh when all the basket-shoot-
ing was over. Pette and Iler repeated from last year.
Prior to that, they had been named for the same posi-
tions on the Associated Press all-State cage selection.

As somebody put it during the basketball season—
‘Basketball at Washington and Lee wouldn't be basket-
ball without Cy Young at the helm.’ Let’s simplify that:

Wrestling wouldn’t be wrestling without Mathis;
swimming wouldn’t be swimming without Twombly ;
baseball wouldn’t be baseball without Dick Smith; and
track wouldn’t be track without Fletcher, even if he has
been having a bit of tough luck with his thin clads the
past few years. —

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Nor would football be football without Tilson, who
probably will stage a tremendous comeback with his
team next fall after the slump of the 1935 season. It
looks so from spring practice anyway.

Frankly, I couldn’t toss too many bouquets in this
article, because coaches and players at Washington and
Lee are earning for themselves and the school a reputa-
tion for competitive spirit and sportsmanship that prob-
ably does not have an equal—and certainly is not sur-
passed—on any American campus. (And if I were back
writing a sports column’ I’d say the same thing, even if
the managing editor should lean over and say, “Huh!
Being partial to your Alma Mater, are you!” )

Now about baseball :

Next issue we'll devote more space to baseball and
track and tennis. But before we get to the end of this
column, there are a few notes about the ball-playing
Generals that you should know.

They started the season March 23 by losing 2-0 to
Ohio State, then came back the following day and
thumped out a fine 7-4 victory to even things up. The
games were the first of the season for Virginia colleges,
and proved an auspicious debut for the Generals this year.

There are two especially capable pitchers, Joe Pette
and Emerson Dickman, who will be helped out by J. P.
(Chip) Jones and a sophomore, Charles Skinner, only
left-hander on the mound squad this season.

In the second game with Ohio State, Pette not only
pitched the whole distance, keeping the visitors’ blows
well scattered, but drove out two home runs and a double.
Big day in the. box and at the bat.

I’m making a prediction: If the Generals don’t keep
their Southern conference baseball title this spring, they
will come very, very close to it.

And now the column ends, until the last issue of
the year.

 

And This Is Scoring

SPESSARD, the six-foot, seven-inch Washington and
Lee center, scored less than ten points in only two of the
Generals’ games this season.

The tall sophomore, who covers the floor unusually
well, started the season in spectacular manner when he
hit the basket for fifteen field goals against Roanoke
Y. M. C. A. here in December, getting 30 points in his
debut as a varsity player. In the next game, however,
the strong National Business College five, also of Roa-
noke, held him to nine points. Again later in the season,
on February 6, he was held to nine points, this time
when the Generals entertained Clemson here.

Altogether, Spessard scored 268 points in Washing-
ton and Lee’s eighteen-game schedule. He made good 54

free throws, and 107 shots from the floor. Here is his
record, not including the tournament:

Opponent Fouls Goals
ROsHOKe F200 CoA ee 15 0
National Business Col. .................. 4 l
len GORE i. i cad... isthats ees, ~ Z
Maryland University ..........0...0..... 4 4
North Carolina University ............ 5 5
William and Mary ................0000. 4 4
University of Virginia .......0.......... 5 2
Virginia Polytechnic ...................... 5 5
North Carolina State ......0..00000.. + 2
SRNR 92942 aba sell a> scye oie + ]
Virginia Polytechnic .....................- 6 5
Maryland University ................... 6 +
Naval, Academy: 325 )ceraisccte since) 4 S
Richmond University ........0..0.0... 4 +
Richmond University .............0...... 9 1
William and Mary ....................... 8 6
University of Virginia .................. 6 3
Duke’ University 2.2..:.0.0.050..00. cece 9 2

I octets ihoses ics 107 54

 

Weddings

O. W. Histe, LL. B., 1921, and Miss Mary Arbuckle
were married recently.

SPENCER MERRICK, JR., class of 1927, and Miss Mar-
ian Kuethe were married February 26 at Philadelphia.
The ceremony was performed in the chapel of the Church
of the Savior, and the couple left afterwards for a honey-
moon to Bermuda. They will live in Baltimore.

WILLIAM TayLoE MuNForp, class of 1931, and Miss
Janie Preston Lamb were married March 7 at Rich-
mond, Virginia.

 

Births

Here’s a note from Thomas P. Wright, class of 1930:
“Mrs. Wright and I are pleased to announce the birth
of a daughter, Margaret Frances, on February 17, in
Columbia, S. C.” Mr. Wright is a member of the fac-
ulty high school.

 

TueoporeE H. Evans, class of 1919, has closed a suc-
cessful pastorate at Tuscaloosa, Ala., and has recently

-gone to be rector of Trinity Episcopal Church at New

Haven, Conn. Mr. Evans was a member of the Wash-
ington and Lee ambulance section in the World War.
His new church is considered one of the most important
churches in that section. It is located on the green and is
attended by many of the Yale University group.

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Los Angeles

Dr. Francis P. GAINEs literally “stopped the show”
when he met with the alumni chapter of Southern Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles February 15. This small but en-
thusiastic group fell so under the spell of the president's
personality and the magic of his words it adjourned at
the close of his address without taking action on several
matters on the agenda. Perhaps no greater tribute has
been paid this great executive in his brilliant career as
an educator. Fortunately, a resolution or two had been
passed before Dr. Gaines spoke. The others will have
to await the next meeting.

Dr. Louis Knott Koontz, a distinguished scholar in
his own right and member of the faculty of the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles, was so moved he
was barely able to speak a few words of dismissal after
the president concluded his address and only by warm-
ing up another toastmaster could any business have been
transacted after the address.

The dinner in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Gaines was
held at the University of California at Los Angeles and
was attended not only by Washington and Lee men but
“Washington and Lee women,” related by marriage to
the University. Mr. and Mrs. John Darnall and Mr. and
Mrs. George E. Ferrand, long time friends of the guests
of honor, also attended.

John F. Ponder, 1867, who is recovering from a ser-
ious accident, was unable to attend and a vote of appre-
ciation and good wishes was sent him. Mrs. Ponder,
wife of one of the oldest alumni in the country, in a let-
ter of regret at not being able to attend suggested a
‘ladies’ auxiliary’ might be set up in connection with
the chapter, pointing out that other organizations have
adopted such devices with success and some variation
of the idea might be helpful in alumni effort.

Letters and telegrams of felicitation were read from
distinguished well wishers, among them Dr. J. W.
Claudy, president of the Alumni Association; Walter A.
McDonald, former president; and Cy Young, secretary.

An announcement of the forthcoming publication of
“Lexington in Old Virginia” by the “students’ friend,”
Henry Boley, was passed around the table for inspec-
tion by the assembled guests and all inscribed a note of
appreciation to Henry.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by a fellow South Car-
olinian with the statement that all South Carolinians ex-

cept those in the newspaper profession were orators and
the presidential address quickly demonstrated the truth
of the introduction, running the scale from delightful
touches of humor to serious thought of what Washing-
ton and Lee is today and will be tomorrow.

The alumni laughed loudly at a joke on themselves
when the president recalled that the campus was clutter-
ed up last year with more A’s and B’s than at any time
in its long history, adding :

“T realize, gentlemen, that it is embarrassing to us
all to have to say to you that the scholarship has improved
greatly since you left.”

During their stay in Los Angeles Dr. and Mrs. Gaines
were entertained at a motion picture studio where they
were photographed with at least one star, lunched in the
studio restaurant and saw almost every inch of the big
“lot” where three or four companies were “shooting.”

It was gratifying to the alumni that no one in the
land of make-believe had to be told about Washington
and Lee although the university is some 3,000 miles
from Hollywood.

Attending the dinner, most of them accompanied by
their wives, were: Thomas Ball, J. M. O’Brien, V. J.
Jarnett, James W. McLaurin, Thomas L. Harris, Wil-
liam A. Collins, David J. Wise, George S. Spragins,
Herbert A. Riley, J. P. Riley, J. W. Leigh, Thomas N.
Havlin, H. A. Doss, Stewart L. Crebs, Robert Annon,
John Darnall, George E.. Ferrand, Louis K. Koontz, and

Brian Bell. —Reported by Brian Bell

Houston

IXN ROUTE to the west coast, Dr. and Mrs. Gaines
stopped at Houston, where Dr. Gaines addressed alumni
and guests at a luncheon at the Tejas club. The Univer-
sity president was enthusiastically received, and told the
alumni and guests of recent developments at Washing-
ton and Lee, and sketched the history of the University.

While in Houston, Dr. and Mrs. Gaines were guests
of J. Robert Neal, class of 1915, Houston banker.

Among those who attended the luncheon at the Tejas
club were Dr. Edgar Odell Lovett, president of Rice In-
stitute: F. M. Law of the board of trustees of Texas
A. & M. College; George W. Cottingham, editor of the
Houston Chronicle; and W. P. Hobby, president of the
Houston Post.

[ 21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

San Antonio

WHILE aT San Antonio on his way to California, Dr.
Gaines addressed alumni, guests, and students at T. M. I.

“I’m sure the boys (at T. M. I.) haven’t had any-
thing as good as his address for a long time,’ Albert
Steeves, Jr., 1906, wrote in giving an account of Dr.
Gaines’ visit to San Antonio.

Approximately 40 persons attended the luncheon at
which Dr. Gaines addressed the alumni. It was held at
the St. Anthony hotel.

Dallas

Buck BaILey, 1929, was elected president of the
North Texas association at the organization meeting of
that group in Dallas February 24. Twenty alumni at-
tended the meeting, which was held at the Dallas Ath-
letic Club.

Other officers named included Judge A. J. Powers,
1904, of Fort Worth, and Pinkney Grissom, 1920, of
Dallas, vice-presidents; Sam Kohen, 1916, of Dallas,
as secretary and treasurer; and Easley Waggoner, 1916,
of Dallas, as the athletic representative, to investigate
the possibility of having a Washington and Lee team
play in that section.

The North Texas organization scheduled another
meeting for March, but at the time this issue went to
press no report of it had been received.

Washington

It’s A RATHER belated report, but still time to let the
other associations know that the Washington, D. C.,
alumni held another of a series of successful meetings
January 18, having Dr. and Mrs. Gaines as special guests
for the evening. Dr. J. W. Claudy and numerous other
prominent alumni attended the dinner, which was pre-
sided over by I'd Campbell, 1918, elected last fall as
president of the D. C. chapter.

Louisville

Dr. Ropert H. Tucker, dean of the University, ad-

dressed alumni of Louisville at their meeting at the
Brown Hotel January 20—the occasion of the annual
Robert E. Lee memorial dinner.

A total of 61 people, including the wives of alumni
and guests, attended the meeting, which had been an-
nounced by Bob Foree, 1927, and Ed Dodd, 1926, in a
well prepared mimeographed Ietter describing the organ-
ization of local committees.

Included among alumni who attended were:

M. B. O’Sullivan, J. W. May, Ed Dodd, R. A. Bate,
Jr., Murrel D. Klein, Charles Mercke, Dave McCandless,

Jr., E. R. Smiley, William F. Chandler, Peel Rivers,
Robert F. Cooper, Jr., William L. Hoge, A. B. Bondu-
rant, Judge William H. Field, R. T. Foree, Jr., E. D.
Axton, R. P. Hobson, T. Kennedy Helm, Edward Matz,
Ernest Woodward, John H. Harwick, F. A. Sampson,
I. S. Axton, Don Wallis, J. R. Moore, Joseph J. Kaplan,
Ed Reitz, Jr., and S. Cook Shaw.

Memphis

MEMPHIS ALUMNI held their annual banquet on
Washington's birthday, described by George D. Powers,
Jr., new president of the Memphis and Tri-States asso-
ciation, as “‘the most enthusiastic meeting I have ever at-
tended.”” He was elected to the presidency at the meeting.

W. E. Gage, Jr., class of 1927, was named vice-pres-
ident and Pete Friedel, 1931, secretary. The group de-

cided to appoint a group of 12 directors, representatives

of districts surrounding Memphis, who will co-operate
with the officers in guiding the work of the association.

Harrisonburg

AT A LUNCHEON meeting of Washington and Lee
alumni of Rockingham county and Harrisonburg held at
the Kavanaugh hotel at one o’clock Wednesday, January
29, 1936, there were present 20 local alumni, one from
Norfolk, six high school seniors and five guests.

The meeting was one of the first alumni meetings
held in Rockingham county for some time and was oc-
casioned by the presence of Dr. Francis P. Gaines, pres-
ident of the University, who spoke at the chapel exercises
of the State Teachers College at 11:00 o’clock and to
the alumni at 1:00 p. m.

William H. Keister, class of 1894, presided and after
some reminiscing, introduced Professor B. L. Stanley,
superintendent of the local high school, who in turn in-
troduced the high school seniors present as our guests.

Cy Young, alumni secretary, was next called on and
gave a brief outline of alumni activities and responsi-.
bilities, urging the local association to interest young
men in applying to the University for admission and to
keep in touch with its alumni secretary.

Following Cy Young’s suggestion, the presiding of-
ficer suggested that we organize a Rockingham County
Alumni association. This met with the unanimous ap-
proval of those present, and in order to carry out this
idea a nominating committee of three, consisting of
Ralph H. Bader, class of 1909, George W. Taliaferro,
class of 1922, and G. Fred Switzer, class of 1926, was
appointed by the chairman to withdraw, nominate a pres-
ident, vice-president, and secretary, and report back to
the meeting. This was done immediately and the follow-
ing officers were unanimously elected: William H. Keis-

[ 22 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ter, class of 1894, president; FE. Dulaney Ott, class of
1901, vice-president; and Richard B. Bradley, class of
1925, secretary. It was suggested that we meet once a
year at the call of the president and that the elected of-
ficers serve as an executive committee to investigate and
recommend all applications for alumni scholarships in the
city and county.

Dr. John Hammond Griffith, class of 1881, who hap-
pened to hear that a Washington and Lee alumni lun-
cheon was being held in the city, came in to join us and
gave some interesting remarks on the University at the
time he attended. He is a former Archdeacon of the
diocese of North Carolina and is at present stopping in
the Valley for a rest and vacation.

Dr. Gaines was then introduced and gave an inter-
esting address on the University, its present and future
building plans, type of student desired, its attendance,
freshman counseling plan, application for entrance and
the general spirit and atmosphere of the University.

Alumni present included :

Lyle M. Armentrout, of Edom, Va., and the follow-
ing from Harrisonburg; Richard B. Bradley, 1925;
Ralph H. Bader, 1909; Rolland Berry, 1935; George D.
Conrad, 1927; A. K. Fletcher, 1903; H. K. Gibbons,
1921; Lenwill W. Holloman, 1929; William H. Keister,
1894; E. Reid Lineweaver, 1933; Charles A. Nelson,
1927; H. D. Newman, 1915; E. Dulaney Ott, 1901;
William Paxton, 1911; G. Fred Switzer, 1926; Frank
C. Switzer, 1924; George W. Taliaferro, 1922; James
M. Weaver, 1925; Howard W. Wyant, 1913; James M.
Warren, 1917.

Lynchburg

ALUMNI OF Lynchburg, Va., held a dinner meeting
at the Virginian Hotel January 20. Thomas W. Gilliam,
president of the chapter, presided, and the group later
elected Carter Glass, Jr., president for the ensuing year.
Informal talks were made by President Gaines and Cy
Young. Among those present were:

R. M. Barker, 1922; O. B. Barker, Jr., 1913; Ellis
M. Bristow, 1915; H. S. Bryant, 1920; Jerry A. Burke,
1915; John S. Caskie, 1925; Gilmer Craddock, 1913;
Raymund Cundiff, 1932; Fred M. Davis, 1914; Joel M.
Flood, 1917; Thomas W. Gilliam, 1919; Carter Glass,
Jr., 1913; Powell Glass, 1907 ; Robert Glass, 1908; R. E.
Gooch, 1930; Reed FE. Graves, 1924; Thomas W. Graves,
1934; Don P. Halsey, 1893; Morris H. Hester, 1920;
K. Clyde Hoge, 1908; David Bell MacGowan, 1890;
William T. Macleod, 1912; Fred W. McWane, 1913:
William W. Manley, Jr., 1924; Maurice Moore, 1894;
J. L. Noell, Jr., 1890; S. E. Oglesby, 1915; Mosby G.
Perrow, Jr., 1930; W. A. Powell, 1922; R. D. Ramsey,
1914; C. M. Roberts, 1894; Robert A. Russell, 1911:

W. T. Spencer, Jr., 1921; Aubrey E. Strode, 1894; S. F.
Wainwright, 1914; Basil G. Watkins, 1926; Sam Wil-
liams, 1914; Carroll Wiltshire, 1913; P. B. Winfree, Jr.,
1935; John A. Witt, 1919; R. C. Wood, 1921.

Guests included: Dr. Francis P. Gaines; Dr. T. H.
Jack, president of Randolph-Macon; Dr. R. B. Mont-
gomery, president of Lynchburg College, and Harry K.
(Cy) Young, 1917.

 

Fourth Year of Class Agent Plan

MATERIAL HAS gone out from the Alumni Office to
all Class Agents. Within the next few weeks every alum-
nus will receive a letter from his Class Agent. Please
answer your Class Agent's letter—with or without a
contribution. The primary object of the whole plan is to
keep you personally in touch with the University and
with your classmates.

Three years ago the Alumni were organized into
classes. Hach year a Class Agent writes a personal letter
to every man in his class, asking first, for a response,
giving news, making suggestions, etc., and second for a
small contribution to the Alumni, Inc. The fund received
is used to relieve the University of the burden of sup-
porting the Alumni Association, traveling expenses of
representatives of the University who visit the local As-
sociations, entertainment of visiting Alumni, etc.

In 1933 there were 505 contributions aggregating
$3,741.80.

In 1934 there were 660 contributions aggregating
$4,524.80.

In 1935 there were 645 contributions aggregating
$3,440.05. (In addition to contributions made by alumni
to the erection of the new Law Building.)

We feel that the Class Agent Plan is now thoroughly
understood by every alumnus. Do your part toward mak-
ing this a banner year in the history of the Alumni As-
sociation.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.,

At Your Service!

 

The Cover of This Issue

REPRODUCED AS THE cover of this issue of The Alum-
mi Magazine is a photograph by O. W. Riegel, director
of journalism at Washington and Lee, showing the col-
umns that front the New Tucker Hall. Other photo-
graphs by Mr. Riegel are the one of the interior of the
library; the hallway view; and the picture giving a close-
up of the stairway.

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Class Agents for 1936

1935—WILLIAM SCHUHLE, Lexington, Va. (Academic )
Tuomas E. Sparks, Boyle Bldg., Little Rock,
Arkansas (Law)

1934—Amos Boren, Lexington, Va. (Academic )
Tuomas D. ANperson, Gulf Bldg., Houston,
Texas (Law)

1933—LutTHER VIOLET, JR., 118 Sixteenth St., Paris,
Ky. (Academic )
J. JeromE FrAMptom, Jr., 145 East 23rd St.,
New York City (Law)

1932—KEMPER JENNINGS, Box 835, Vero Beach, Fla.
(Academic )
James D. Sparks, 604 Riverside Drive, Mon-
roe, La. (Law)

1931—Ben M. Ayars, 2425 Clark St., Columbia, S. C.
(Academic )
FRANK W. McC uer, Jr., Aberdeen, N.C. (Law)

1930—Hersert G. JAHNCKE, 5529 South Johnson St.,
New Orleans, La. (Academic )
Morton E. Pancert, Jr., Oliver & Padgett, Bed-
ford, Va. (Law)

1929—Joun Bett Towrtt, 1015 Southern Finance
Bldg., Augusta, Georgia.

1928—Grorcs F. Atwoon, 118 S. Clay Ave., Ferguson,
Mo. (Academic )
GrorGE OLDHAM CLARKE, Department of Jus-
tice, U. S. Atty.’s Office, Louisville, Ky. (Law)

1927—
Grorcr F. MAYNARD, Clarksdale, Miss. (Law)

1926—F. B. Warrrs, Cape Charles, Va. (Academic)
Basic G. Warxins, Peoples National Bank Bldg.,
Lynchburg, Va. (Law)

1925—W. H. Crvuvertius, 55 A. Montague St., Charles-
ton, S. C. (Academic)
Joun C. Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg.,
Charleston, W. Va. (Law)

1924—C, Hacan Minnicu, Bristol, Va. (Academic )
J. W. Fircnert, Union Bank Bldg., Huntington,
W. Va. (Law)

1923—R. Maurice Frew, Rutherfordton, N. C. (Aca-
demic )
Emmett W. PornpExtErR, 120 Broadway, New
York City (Law)

1922—Lovuis A. Duntap, Pulaski, Va.

1921—Joun L. Patrerson, 552 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis,
Mo. (Academic)
W. Braxton Dew, 181
Hartford, Conn. (Law)

1920—Ranvotepn McG. CaBELt, Covington, Va.

Auburn Road, West

1919—Lronarp T. Brown, 700 W. Jackson Blvd.,
Bridgeport, Conn.
1918—E. D. CAMPBELL, Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C,
1917—Rosert B. McDovucte, Citizens National Bank
Bldg., Parkersburg, W. Va. (Academic)
H. V. CAMPBELL, Security Bldg., Charleston,
W. Va. (Law)
1916—
SELDEN S. McNEkr, First Huntington National
Bank Bldg., Huntington, W. Va. (Law)
1915—Kr Witiiams, Waynesboro, Va.
1914—CLarRENCE L. Sacer, 30 East 42nd St., New York
1913—Ben F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg., Cleveland, O.
1912—Witiiam A. Hyman, 100 William St., New York
1911—J. Nevin Ki_mer, Martinsburg, W. Va.
1910—Puitiep W. Murray, First National Bank Bldg.,
Newport News, Va.
1909—Dr. J. Wittiam CrLaupy, Rockview Farm Pri-
son, R. F. D. No. 3, Bellefonte, Pa. (Academic )
Jupcr E. C. Carrrey, Circuit Court of New Jer-
sey, Hackensack, N. J. (Law)
1908—Puitip P. Pace, 12 E. Grand Ave., Chicago, Ill.
1907—Rerv. A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Fla.
1906—CLaupE P. Licut, 219 Seventh St., Parkersburg,

W. Va.

1905—

1904—Grorce E. Haw, 403 Travelers Bldg., Richmond,
Virginia

1903—Rev. J. M. B. Git, St. Paul’s Rectory, Peters-
burg, Va.

1902—W. Dewey Cook, Southern Fertilizer & Chemi-
cal Co., Savannah, Ga.

1901—A. F. Wurre, 1315 Meldon Ave., Donora, Pa.

1900—

1899—Harry Sr. G. T. CARMICHAEL, Kyrock, Ky.

1898—NorMan S. FirznucuH, Kanawha Banking &
Trust Co. Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1897—

1896—H. H. Larimore, Missouri Pacific Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

1895—

1894—James N. Veecn, 1250 Everett Ave., Louisville,
Kentucky

1893—H. A. Acsricut, Columbus, Miss.

1892—Joun J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Ky.

1891—

1890—Dran Dovuctas S. ANbDERSON, Tulane Univer-
sity, New Orleans, La.

[ 24 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1893

Capt. Guy E. MANNING is a retired army officer
and lives at 164 North Remington Road, Boxley, Co-
lumbus, Ohio.

H. W. Myers is a Presbyterian missionary in Kobe,
Japan. The Myers have three children, all grown up and
happily married in America. He leads a busy, happy life
in this hustling Japanese City and writes interesting in-
cidents of his daily routine.

Hat L,. Norwoop is with the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration in Little Rock, Ark. He is state director

of FHA for Arkansas.

R. EK. Wapbk is employed by General Electric in trans-
portation engineering. He lives at 534 Smithpau Ave.,
lawrence Park, Erie, Pa.

1896

Paut S. MerrINs is practicing medicine in Mont-
gomery, Ala. His son graduated from Washington and
lee several years ago and he has a married daughter
and a small grand-daughter.

C. CapBett ‘Turwiter has recently bought “Brush-
wood,” the old Weis place, west of Lexington, which is
undergoing extensive improvements. Mr. and Mrs. Tut-
wiler will make their home here. Mrs. Tutwiler was Miss
Rebe Glasgow, a sister of Miss Ellen Glasgow, the au-
thor of many brilliant novels of the South.

1897

Witt1AM Brown Morrison has been professor of

history for the past ten years in Southern
Teachers College, Durant, Okla.

Cuartes F. Myers is pastor of the
lirst Presbyterian Church of Greensboro,
N. C. He has held the pastorate for the
past eighteen years.

I> WOHLWENDER was a member of the
house and senate, general assembly of
Georgia, from 1909 to 1923. His home is in
Columbus, Ga.

1898

BorpDEN Burr is a member of the law
firm of Benners, Burr, McKamy & For-
man, with offices in the Brown-Marx Build-

  

ing, Birmingham, Ala. He is married and has two sons.

CHARLES JAMES FAULKNER became attorney for Ar-
mour & Company in 1905 and since 1917 has been gen-
eral counsel for that company. He is director in various
Armour subsidiary companies.

1899

S. C. Linn is director of the school of chemistry at
the University of Minnesota.

JAMES MULLEN is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liams, Mullen & Hazelgrove, Richmond, Va.

I-zra Ripy is in the hardware business in Lawrence-
burg, Ky.

Cot. Arruur M. Sutpp was retired from the United
States Army in September, 1934, and is living at 2350
Granada Way, South, St. Petersburg, Fla.

1901

Hate Marragw Hovusron is with the John Bre-
mond Co., Austin, ‘Texas. He has three children, Wil-
liam B., Hallie and Catherine.

Joun W. L&E is paymaster for the Pittsburgh Screw
and Bolt Corporation. He lives at 30 Rocklyn Place,
South Hills, P. O., Mt. Lebanon, Pa. Gets back to Lex-

ington every year Or SO.

RicHarp C. Lorn, class agent for 1901, is a professor
at Kenyon college, Gambier, Ohio.

Dr. ARNOLD Lours MEREDITH lives at
Prairie Home, Cooper county, Mo.

1904

HERBERT STABLER OsBURN is rector of
Ware and Abingdon Parishes, Gloucester,
Virginia.

E,. W. PorndEX’ER is practicing law in
Roanoke, Va., with offices in the Shenan-
doah Life building.

= SoLomon W. SCHAEFER is a specialist
tte” in tubercular diseases at Colorado Springs,
Colo. His offices are in the Exchange Na-
tional Bank building.

eer
LAS; ys

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ArtTHUR TABB is connected with the Tabb Transfer
Co., established by his father in 1875. He lives at 2411
Ransdeal Ave., Louisville, Ky.

1905

Matcoitm D. CAMPBELL has been made division man-
ager of the Investors Syndicate. His son, Alexander, is
manager of the Charleston, W. Va., office of this syn-
dicate.

1906

Sam I,. Peery is a park engineer, National Park
Service. His permanent address is care Dr. Jack W. Wit-
ten, Tazewell, Va.

H. CLaupeE Porst is enjoying a fine law practice in
Grundy, Va. Has seen his county change from an in-
accessible, undeveloped neighborhood into a_ thriving
community, with good roads and thriving coal business.
He has two sons and a daughter.

Witrorp FRANKLIN RAILING is supervisor in the
gas manufacturing department of the Consolidated Gas,
Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore. He
lives at 4603 Karnwood Ave., Baltimore, Md.

Ira T. Rirenour is a “dry land wheat farmer,”
Pendroy, Montana.

A. W. Ruran is an attorney-at-law, First National
Bank building, Santa Ana, Calif.

BayArpD BrENotst SHIELDS has practiced law con-
tinuously in Jacksonville, Fla., since leaving college; has
recently been nominated, in the Democratic primary, for
circuit judge of the fourth judicial circuit of the state
of Florida.

1907

Davin Scorr MacDona cp is practicing law in Du-
rant, Oklahoma, at 220 1-2 West Main St. His son,
David Scott MacDonald, Jr., graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee last June.

Tuomas Fiercuer Opre, D.D., is rector of St.
Bartholomew’s Parish, Montgomery county, Md. Having
had ten years in newspaper work before entering the

ministry, he continues his writing in many church per-°

iodicals.

1908

ALBERT WALLACE LyBRAND has been employed in
the District of Columbia in the water department branch,
now as assistant civil engineer, since his graduation.

Atonzo B. McMULLEN is a member of the law firm
of McMullen & Draper, First National Bank Building,
Tampa, Fila.

James Léroy MILLs is a title attorney, with offices
in the Arcade building, Norfolk, Va.

R. C. MILLING is a member of the law firm of Mill-
ing, Godchaux, Saal & Milling, Whitney building, New
Orleans, La.

FREDERICK F. MILusaps is president of the Ouachita
National Bank, Monroe, La.

JosgpH M. Moore is vice-president of Greenbrier
Military School, Lewisburg, W. Va.

Joun WiLit1AM NEWMAN is practicing law in Little
Rock, Ark.
1909

W. T. DELAPLAINE is editor and manager of the
Great Southern Printing and Manufacturing Company,
publishers of The News, and The Frederick Post, Fred-
erick, Md.

I. D. STEVENSON is a Presbyterian minister at Sweet-
water, ‘Tenn.

S. N. Hosnouwr is city collector of Staunton, Va.

1910

Puitie W. Murray is a member of the firm of Lett,
Murray & Ford, lawyers, First National Bank building,
Newport News, Va.

Epcar GEorGE Struss is in the linoleum and soft
floors business in Tampa, Fla. He has two daughters,
Marie Jane and Ethel Nell.

Wicsur L,. TiLpEN is attorney for the board of
county commissioners, Orlando, Fila.

Puitie WILLIAMS is a member of the law firm of
Williams & Brother, Woodstock, Va.

1911

Crucik O. DuNN is living at 257 Parkway, Win-
chester, Va.

Joun TuRNER Gray, Jr., immediately after grad-
uation was appointed clerk and master of the chancery
court in Brownsville, Tenn., which office he filled until
the World War. His practice was resumed in Browns-
ville after the war. He has three children, Alexandria
Mary, John T., III, and Ora Louise.

Joun G. HErNpon is editor in chief of “Cumulative
Loose Leaf Business Encyclopedia,” J. C. Winston Co.
He lives in Haverford, Pa.

LAWRENCE Lewis HumMPpHREY lives in Duncan, Ok-
lahoma. |

[ 26 ]

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Omer T. Kaytor has been referee in bankruptcy at
Hagerstown, Md., since 1921.

ERNEST KELLNER is attorney for the board of the
Mississippi Levee Commissioners, Greenville, Miss.

WILLIAM ‘TRENT NEEL lives at 1000 Chestnut St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

1912

EpWARD Lyons has been with the Parke, Davis Com-
pany at Detroit, Mich., since 1919.

ALLAN McDowELt was a visitor to Lexington dur-
ing the summer. He has been teaching mathematics at
Kent School, Kent, Conn., for the past thirteen years.

1913

Carter GLass, JR., is co-publisher of The News and
Daily Advance, Lynchburg, Va.

SAMUEL W. Mayruspsy, JR., lives
at 1222 W. 13th St., Sulphur, Okla.
He has two sons, William Dudley,
seven years old, and David Allan, five

years old.

FREDERICK W. MCWANE is general
manager of the Lynchburg Foundry
Company. He was Republican candi-
date for Congress, sixth district, in
1922, again in 1924 and Republican
candidate for governor of Virginia in
1933. He is founder and secretary of
the “Society of Virginians.”

HerMAN [LAvieR MICHAEL is with the Union Man-
ufacturing Company, East Patrick Street, Frederick,
Md. He has two children, Mary Jane and Herman La-
vier, Jr.

Henry I. Peepies has been in the general insurance
business for the past twelve years. He is now secretary
and treasurer and part owner of O’Neal and McLain,
Inc., real estate, renting and general insurance. He has
built a home about seven miles out from Atlanta.

Joun J. D. Preston was appointed member of the
public service commission of West Virginia on June 3,
1933, for a six-year term and was named chairman of
that commission July 1, 1934. Since becoming a member
of the commission, its regular appropriations have been
successfully increased by the legislature from $60,000
to $237,000 annually, plus certain additional funds, and
its staff has grown from twenty to sixty employes, and
a corresponding increase in work and activities taken
place.

 

Joun PALMER RICHARDSON has been made a fellow
of the American College of Surgeons. He lives in E-
lensburg, Washington.

Howarp L&E Rosinson is a member of the law firm
of Robinson and Stump. He was appointed United States
attorney for the northern district of West Virginia April
24, 1934.

1914

Frep MicayAun Davis is in the general insurance
business—Davis, Childs & Co., 209 Ninth St., Lynch-
burg, Va.

James D. FLowers is with the First National Bank
of Montgomery, Ala.

1915

HerMAN Hampron is branch office manager, Mill
Mutuals, Houston, Texas. His office
is in the Starling building.

Jerrerson Davis HEFLEy is with
the Retail Merchants Association of
7Ts ‘T*
lexas, at Bryan, Texas.

JosepH W. Honces has been dis-
trict attorney of the Sixth Judicial
District of the state of New Mexico
since January 1, 1933.

1916

Joun Morrison RAINES is mana-
ger of the Travelers Insurance Com-
pany, Little Rock, Ark.

RussELL S. Ruopes is manager of the Tulsa Cham-
ber of Commerce, Tulsa, Okla.

Henry M. Rowan is a physician in Trenton, N. J.
His offices are at 224 W. State Street.

GEORGE D. SHorE, JR., is practicing law in Sumter,
South Carolina.

JosEpH ‘TEAMSTER TAYLOR is a farmer at Morris-
town, Tenn.

1917

Gus O?TTENHEIMER is a manufacturer of ladies’ ap-

parel, employing about 150 people. He lives in Little
Rock, Ark.

CHARLES G. PETERs is a lawyer in the Security build-
ing, Charleston, W. Va.

HERBERT G. PETERS lives in Bristol, Va. He married
Avilda Carver, and they have two children, Herbert G.,
Jr., and Avilda Carver.

[ 27 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Mirron B. Rocers married Lucile McWilliams.
They live at 440 West 24th St., Penthouse Apartment,
New York, N. Y.

Marion Surron SANDERS is a consulting engineer,
working on cost and efficiency statistics. He married
Carline Johnston Sharpe and they have one son, Rich-
ard Sharpe.

Joun Moors Scumo te, M. D., is practicing his pro-
fession in Ios Angeles, Calif. He married Nancy Bilicke,
and they have two children, Joan and Nancy.

1918

Francis Hotmes Stytes is with the department of
state, Washington, D. C., having entered the Consular
service in 1920. Since that time he has been at five dif-
ferent posts on three continents. It is interesting to note
the birthplaces of his three children: Michael Hogan
Styles was born at Durban, South Africa, in 1927 ; David
Thoburn Styles was born in Washington, D. C., in 1929,
and Ellen Warfield Styles was born in Chihauhau, Mex-
ico, in 1931. Other posts he has held include Bordeaux,
France; Angola, Portuguese West Africa; and Antwerp,
Belgium. He says he has had many varied and interest-
ing experiences in connection with his work and life
abroad, but his most thrilling experiences were a hiking
tour with the French Alpine Club from Bayonne, on the
Atlantic, across southern France through the Pyrenees
to Narbonne, on the Mediterranean; and a big game
hunt in West Africa.

BRApDForD Lorr THOMPSON is president of the Prac-
tical School Supply Company, 1315 South Michigan
Baulevard, Chicago. He has a son, thirteen, and a daugh-
ter seven years old.

1919

Joun A. JounsTon is assistant cashier of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank, Baltimore, Md.

NatHaN Loox Dickinson (Dick) is credit man-
ager with Virginia-Iincoln Furniture Corporation, Mar-
ion, Va. Has an eight-year-old son who “besides being
the world’s finest boy is, like someone said of all small
boys, a pain in the neck most of the time he is around
and a pain in the heart all the time he is away.” Quoting
further: “As a matter of fact, I always thought of you
as being in our class. Thinking perhaps of our struggles
in French together and especially thinking of the day
you and Lindsay Moore came in a bit late to an exam.
Dr. Easter had filled blackboards on three sides of the
room with questions and was working on the fourth.
Lindsay stuck his head in the door, saw the three walls
of questions but didn’t see Dr. Easter still worikng be-

hind the door. Lindsay whistled once and then let out
the most heartfelt ‘Great Gawd All Mighty’ I ever
heard.”

S. E. (Dappy) DurRANCE is active in alumni work
in Orlando, Fla. He is practicing law in that city.

Tep Evans—Rey. Theodore Hubbard Evans, Christ
Church (Episcopal), 6th St. & 25th Ave., Tuscaloosa,
Ala., graduated from Virginia Theological Seminary in
1924. Was Rector of St. John’s Church, Waynesboro,
Va., about two years, then assistant at Cathedral Church

of St. Paul, Boston. Has been in Tuscaloosa as Rector
of Christ Church since 1928.

Jimmy Farn—James R., is with the Morris Plan
Bank, Winston-Salem, N. C. Is married and has two
children, James R., Jr., and Lucy Jane. Has not been
back to Lexington for ten years, but almost promises to
return for Finals this year. We are expecting you, Jimmy.

Tommy Farrar—William Matthew, Jr., apologizes
for delay in answering the communication from the class
agent with the excuse that his young son, Billy, went to
the postoffice with his mother and destroyed the enclo-
sure which came with the letter. He is with the Com-
mercial ‘Trust Co. of New Jersey, 15 Exchange Place,
Jersey City, N. J. Has three children—Mary Elizabeth,
William Ward, and Catherine Anne.

1920

WILLIAM FE. JOHNSTON has been assistant sales man-
ager of the American Sugar Refining Company, 120 Wall
St., New York, since January, 1930.

Tuomas M. (Mac) Srusss writes an interesting
letter from Atlanta where he is located in the Hurt
building. Mac is acting as chairman of the Georgia al-
umni of Washington and Lee.

JAMES MaGrRuDER WARREN is in the insurance bus-
iness at Harrisonburg, Va., with offices in the First Na-
tional Bank building. Jimmy married Miss Frances Sub-
lett, and they have three children, James III, Frank and
Wade. Jimmy served in the army during the World
War and since then has been in the insurance business.

Rosert HENcE Younc is living at 1712 Estes Ave-
nue, Chicago, Ill. He married Miss Frances Spencer,
and they have two children, Robert, Jr., and Virginia.
After leaving Lexington, Hence attended Cornell and
took his ME, degree there.

Cuarces E. Kigvean (Kiev) lives at 1306 Branard
Street, Houston, Texas. He married Miss Minnie Ham-
mersmith, and they have one son. Kiev was a pilot in the
Army Air Corps during the war and spent eighteen

[ 28 ]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

months in the hospital as the result of a crack-up. He
has been in the iron and steel business for a number of
years.

Ropert WitiiAM Lowe is located at 117 West
Scarritt Street, Springfield, Ill. Married Miss Margaret
Parke, and they have one son. Bob has been connected
with the coal mining business as a mining engineer since
leaving Washington and Lee.

SyLVAN NATHAN LICHTENSTEIN (SYLVAN) tells us
he only attended Washington and Lee two months, yet
he holds the University very close to his heart and wants
to contribute to the Alumni association. He married Miss
Rose Ruffner, and they have four children.

Orr RiIpDLEBERGER MAGRUDER is with the Morris
Plan Bank, 33 W. 42nd Street, New York City.

CHARLES Howarp McCain, who
led the Final Ball in 1920, was high
scorer on the Generals’ basketball team
and made many other honors at Wash-
ington and Lee. Is now superintendent
of the William Hengerer Co., of Buf-
falo, N. Y. He married Miss Jane Mc-
Elroy, and they have two boys, Charles,
Jr., and David.

CuHarLEs Dwicut McCasE is lo-
cated in the Ricker-Dodson building in
San Angelo, Texas, where he is presi-
dent of the Golden Petroleum Company.

WILLIAM Davipson Morrison, a
product of Rockbridge county which
transplanted well to the hills of middle Georgia, is now
in the wholesale grocery business at Milledgeville, Ga.

GeorcE F. MircHE cv still lives in Revere, Mass.,
from whence he came to Washington and Lee. He is en-
gaged in the general practice of law with his office at 60
State street, Boston. He married Miss Geraldine Griffin.

1921

Rospert BLAir PRICE lives at 318 N. Chester Road,
Swarthmore, Pa. He married Kathleen Carroll, and they
have a son, Robert Blair, Jr. ;

SAMUEL L. RAINEs is practicing medicine in Mem-
phis, Tenn.

Davip CarLIisLE (Doc) Storty has been with the
Virginia Bridge and Iron Company since 1925, three
and one half years as assistant contracting engineer at
their Birmingham, Ala., plant and as contracting engi-
neer, Los Angeles, Calif., since 1930. He married Car-

 

olyn Elizabeth Hagerty, and they have one son, Robert

Wilson.

ELMER A. STUCK was recently appointed consultant
with Federal Housing Administration of the state of
Arkansas. He lives at Jonesboro. He married Ruth Janet
Diamant, and they have two daughters, Margaret Ann
and Betty Brenda Stuck.

RANDOLPH FE. TyrrEv lives at 729 East 18th street,
Brooklyn, N. Y. He married Grace Suydam, and they
have four children, Rober, Jane, Richard, and Donald.

JAMES Epwarp Moy er is in the private practice of
law at Franklin, Southampton county, Va. He married
Amelia Page Walker. They have two children, James
Edward and Mary Burwell.

ToRRENCE WoLForp is legal member of board of
veterans’ appeals, Veterans’ Adminis-
tration, Washington, D. C. He married
Perla Marie Beckham.

GRAHAM ALEXANDER WHITE is with
the Sinclair Refining Co., Coffeyville,
Kansas. He married Pearl Cheatham,
and they have a son, William Donnell.

Rosert CorNELIUS Woop is prac-
ticing law in Lynchburg, Va., with of-

Sam Baytor lives at ‘Wardell,’
Cedar Bluff, Va.

1922

Louis $. JoEL, after graduating in
law at Washington and Lee University,
went immediately to Baltimore, Maryland, where he
was married to Miss Hilda Brinsky. He passed the
Florida bar examination in June and was appointed As-
sistant United States Attorney for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida. In December, 1931, he resigned this
position to enter the private practice of law in Jackson-
ville. He has a son six yéars old.

JAmMEs Mapison is practicing law with the firm of
Madison, Madison and Fuller in Bastrop and Monroe,
Louisiana. His cousins, George T. and H. F. Madison,
Jr., both alumni of Washington and Lee, are also mem-
bers of this firm.

Jor-1,. SILVERSTEIN is a member of the law firm of
Owen, Silverstein and Davis, Charleston National Bank
building, Charleston, W. Va.

RaymMonpb Dupuy SMITH is with the brokerage firm
of Biggs, Mohrman & Co., One Wall street, New York.

WALLER KEEBLE SMITH, JR., studied at the Harvard

[ 29 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

university architectural school in 1924-27. Is with Hin-
nant and Smith, certified architects and engineers, of
Lynchburg, Va.

1923

Rocer B. Jones is enforcing respect for the rules of
‘Property III” inter alia—representing the Sinclair Re-
fining Co., at Kansas City. :

FREDERICK LYLE SATTES is connected with the sales
department of Belle Alkali Company, Belle, W. Va. He
married Catherine Elizabeth Backus, and they have one
daughter, Katherine Elizabeth.

Davip Raymonp (Toap) SNIVELY is with the Hag-
erstown Leather Company, Hagerstown, Md. He married
Valinda Mason.

HerMAN K. TrRAMMEL, JR., is a lawyer with offices
in the T'rammel building, Jellico, Tenn. He married Alice
Stahl Cherry. They have two boys and a girl.

RayMonb G. WICKERSHAM is pastor of the Water-
boro group of Presbyterian churches, Waterboro, S. C.
He was elected moderator of Charleston Presbytery,
synod of South Carolina, October, 1934. He married
Dorothy Mae White, and they have two sons, Raymond
and John Harley.

JouNn BreECKENRIDGE WoopviLLE, JR., graduated
from the Medical College of Virginia in 1930, and is now
with the United States Veteran’s Hospital at Batavia,
N. Y. He married Roberta Lee Waters. They have a
son, John B. Woodville, III.

1926

STANLEY OsSERMAN is practicing law at 505 5th
Ave., New York City. He married Elizabeth Tonkonogy,
and they have two children, Carol and Joan.

Anprew A. PAyNE is practicing law, with offices in
the Kanawha Valley building, Charleston, W. Va.

Lee H. Reser is assistant manager of D. S. An-
drews & Co., Sunbury, Pa.

FRANK PERLETTE SHULL taught for two years at
Emory University, Atlanta, Ga. For the past six years
has been master in charge of French and Spanish at the
Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Va. He married
Nellie E. Wyatt.

EARL LESTER VALENTINE is practicing law in Lex-
ington, Va.
Cart J. WALLIN is chief engineer, Virginia Hot

Springs, Va. He married Mabel Hudgins Goodman,
and they have a daughter, Charlotte Eloise.

1927

MANNING SIMONS lives at 22 Rutledge Ave., Charles-
ton, S. C.

RicHArRD HuyeETrTEe SPESSARD is in the engineering
department of the Dan River Cotton Mills, Danville,
Va. He married Virginia Miller.

ToMMY STERNS is master of history, St. Paul’s
School, Salisbury, Conn.

RoBerT EARL STEVENSON is commercial agent, traf-
fic department, of the Gulf, Mobile and Northern Rail-
road, New Orleans, La.

Joun Oscar STRICKLER is engaged in the general
practice of law, State & City Bank building, Roanoke,
Va. He married Mary Ella Hite, and they have one son,
John Glenwood Strickler.

Haro_p SULLIVAN is practicing law at 628 Ford
building, Detroit, Mich.

GEORGE WILLIAM SUMMERSON is manager of the
Hotel Washington Duke, Durham, N. C.

ALFRED LEE TAYLOR is with the General American

Life Insurance Company, St. Louis, Mo. He married
Mary Bell McConkey.

WittiAmM Rucker TAyLor is with the Liggett &
Myers Tobacco Company at Danville, Va.

Hersert W. VIRGIN, JR., is orthopedic and indus-
trial surgeon at the Methodist Hospital and Jackson
Clinic, Madison, Wis. He married Frances Patterson
True.

1928

Joun Davisson PHILLIPs received his A. B. from
West Virginia University in 1928, and LL. B. in 1930;
was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, Oxford,
England, 1930-32. He married Caroline Virginia Max-

well.

HERBERT MARTIN SIFFORD lives at 645 West Main
St., Somerset, Pa. He is married and has one daughter,
Barbara Isabelle.

Hortus S. (BaBE) Sports is athletic director and
coach at Adelphi Academy, 282 Lafayette Ave., Brook-
lyn, N. Y. He is married and has a son, David.

Puitie Dopson Sprouse has been instructor at Gulf
Coast Military Academy ; L’Institut de Rouraine, Tours,
France; graduate study in the Romance Languages De-
partment of Princeton University. He is now in the lum-
ber and tobacco business at Springfield, Tenn,

[ 30 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1929

Louis HASKELL recently gave up a very successful
dairy business in Augusta, Georgia, to study for the
Episcopal ministry at the Seminary in Alexandria, Va.
In December he was awarded “The Silver Beaver” by
the National council of the Boy Scouts of America for
distinguished services in connection with his work among
the boys of Augusta. Since his graduation he has been a
prominent Rotarian and civic leader in Augusta.

SitaAs M. Preston is with the Investors Syndicate,
Peoples National Bank building, Charleston, W. Va.

WILLIAM NExtson Orrurt, III, took his M.D. at
the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in 1933,
had one year internship in the Emergency Hospital,
Washington, D. C. He is instructor in ophthalmology at
the Medical School of Tulane Univ.

Lewis PowELL, JR., is practicing
law in the firm of Hunton, Williams,
Anderson, Gay and Moore, with of-
fices in the Electric building, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

CHARLES J. RANEy graduated from
the University of Pennsylvania Medi-
cal School; interned in Memphis Gen-
eral Hospital and Gorgas Hospital,
Birmingham. Now in general practice
in Collinstown, La. He married Marion
Cole, and they have two boys and a girl.

JAMES LANDON RULE is in the
Farmers & Merchants National Bank,
Hobart, Oklahoma. He married Margaret Bowman, and
they have two little girls, Ann and Mary.

-=
a

Jimmy SALINGER has been for the past two years
with Mazer Cressman Cigar Co., Detroit. He is now in
charge of sales in Northern Ohio and Western Penn-
sylvania.

IRWIN TAYLOR SANDERS is dean of boys and instruc-
tor in sociology in the American College, Sofia, Bul-
garia. He married Margaret Rebecca Ryredberg, June,
1934.

1930

James N. Hess has been in the manufacturing office
of Carbide and Chemicals Corporation in South Charles-
ton, W. Va., for a year and a half.

GEORGE WILLITs PARKER has been with the Asso-
ciated Press; editor and publisher of Tuckertown Bea-
con; publisher of Beach Haven Times, Beach Haven,

N. J.

 

Mossy Perrrow, Jr., LL.B. from Duke, 1934, is
practicing law in Lynchburg, Va.

BEN RAWLINS, JR., is associated with the law firm of
Knapp, Beye, Allen and Cushing in Chicago. Offices,
1768-202 South LaSalle St. He married Charlotte Ruth
Balsiger.

Maurice J. REts since leaving school has been affil-
lated with Standard Statistics Co., engaged in investment
research and analysis, specializing in public utility se-
curities.

FINTON CHEsTER Rice worked for a short time with
Western Electric Company in Chicago—later started
the Mexican Cactus Company which he sold in 1929.
Established the Spic and Span Company branch in Cal-
ifornia, and is now putting branch factories for same
company in Mexico. He lives at Mon-
terey, N. L., Mexico. Married Lorene
D. Fuos.

     
 

~s*
=e -
“—

ALEXANDER LAURENCE ROBINSON,
Jr., has worked with DuPont Cello-
phane Company since graduation. He
lives at 204 Sanders Road, Buffalo,
» New York.

"Vy GILBERT. ROSENBERG is_ practicing
* law in Roanoke, Va. Offices in the Ros-
* enberg building.

  
   
  

re

BRANCH SAYERS is inspector for
Retail Credit Company, Abilene, Texas.

FRANKLIN LEONARD SHIPMAN has
been practicing law for five years; is
junior member of the firm of Shipman & Shipman, ‘Troy.
Ohio. He married Martha L. McBroom, and they have
a son, Franklin, Jr.

ALBERT STEVES, III, attended the Harvard Business
School in 1930-31. Is treasurer of Steves Sash & Door
Company ; vice-president, Ed Steves & Sons. He married
Katherine Ann Muir.

WILLIAM ToRRENCE STUCHELL, JR., graduated from
Rutgers in 1930 with the degree of Litt. B.; graduated
from New York University in 1933 with the degree of
J. D.; was admitted to the bar of New York State in
March, 1935. Is practicing law as an assistant attorney
in the office of William A. Kirk, 32 Liberty St., New
York City.

1931

Witi1am T. Martin, Jr., is an attorney for the
TVA, and is now “on the road” in Alabama, Mississippi,
Tennessee, Arkansas, in TVA legal work.

[ 31 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Barratt O'Hara, Jr., attended Northwestern Uni-
versity law school and since then has worked for Uncle
Sam. He married Maria P. Poiss, and they live at 7604
South Shore Drive, Chicago, II].

LAUCHLEN SEcorD PALMER graduated June, 1934,
from the University of Rochester School of Medicine.
July 1, 1935, started to work for the state of New York
at the Buffalo State hospital in Buffalo, N. Y. He mar-
ried Catherine Mary Fleming.

At Pesky is practicing law in ‘Tazewell, Va.

Reno RussE_t Porter graduated from the Medical
College of Virginia in June, 1935, and is interning at
the State of Wisconsin General Hospital in Madison,
Wisconsin.

Massey I. Prinz took the degree of M. A. in Phil-
osophy from the University of Virginia, in 1932, and
for the past three years has taught in the public schools
of Page county, Virginia. He lives in Luray, Va.

JoHNNY SLosHBERG has taken the New Jersey bar
examination and will soon enter the practice of his pro-
fession.

1932

WicuiaM M. Kems e, Jr., is with the Kemble-Coch-
ran Company, covering twenty counties on typewriters,
mimeographs and other office machines.

RayMmonp LAMAY attended Harvard Business School
from 1932-34, receiving the degree of M. B. A. in June,
1934.

RicHarp O. PARMELEE is manager of the General
Worth Hotel in Hudson, N. Y.

GeorcE Price is head of the English department ; in
charge of publicity, and track coach at Fishburne Mili-
tary School, Waynesboro, Va.

LAWRENCE J. Roos has been for the last three years
at the New York College of Medicine.

GrorcE SCHNATH entered North-
western University Dental School in
1931.

RAN SHIELDs, Jr., has had three
years in the Harvard Medical School.

FrANK S. Situ, Harvard Business
School, 1933, 1934, 1935.

Jack SRULOWI'Tz is a jun or at the
Medical College of Virginia, tichmond.

Joun CLINTON VARNER lives at 116
Jefferson St., Lexington, Va.

 

1933

R. H. Rurr is connected with sales department of
General Coal Company. His address is 1521 Cromwell,
Flint, Michigan.

Jim Lorp, Jr., is associate editor, Furniture World,

a weekly trade magazine of New York City. He lives
at 530 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Jimmie Moors is with the Mengel Body Co., Louis-
ville, Ky.

Marion PorvTer since September, 1933, has been a
graduate student in Princeton University as candidate
for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, which he hopes
to receive in June, 1936.

EpmMuND BLAINE RANNELS, JrR., lives at 627 Shady
Drive, East, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburg, Pa.

Homer Ray, Jr., had two years at Georgia Tech—
B. S. degree, and has been one year in business, ‘*John-
son and Ray,” brokers in foodstuffs and commodities.

Peet Rivers has been with the Axton-Fisher To-
bacco Company since September, 1933, in various de-
partments.

1934

Tom Morris is living at 104 S. Stone Ave., La-
Grange, Ill.

FRANK Parron is living at the Gatewood House,
2107 S. Street, Washington, D. C.

Ropert WALKER RurtH is a reporter with the Cin-
cinnati Post, 5th & Elm streets, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Frep N. SAGER is director of recreation for Dan-
ville, Va.

Rosert B. SarForpD is working for the Travelers
Insurance Company and lives at 45 Lexington Road.

Epwarp C. H. Scumipt, JR., at-
tended the University of Pennsylvania
and is now a graduate assistant at the
University of Pittsburgh.

Pui SERAPHINE, JR., has been
working since July, 1934, as an inves-
tigator for the emergency relief in Great
Neck. His address is Port Washington,
New York.

Jor: S. SnypER, JR., is connected
with the Fidelity and Deposit Co., Bal-
timore, Branch at Memphis, Tenn. His
permanent address is Fayetteville, N.C.

 

 

 

Attention Alumni

THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IT HAS BEEN POSSIBLE TO GET A COAT-OF-ARMS
OF THE UNIVERSITY

Price Postpaid framed $9.00; unframed $7 -00

As the supply is limited, send in your order early to

LEE MUSEUM
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

McCRUM’S “LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BoLey

DRUG STORE to be published in March, 1936, of

FLOWER SHOP special interest to the alumni
of Washington and Lee

SODA FOUNTAIN
$3.00

BUS TERMINAL

order now from

* *«* * * ©

9
Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To- Boley S B ook Store
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Geo. W. St. Clair C. R. Brown, Jr., Huston St.Clair
Class of 1891 Class of 1916 Class of 1922

 

 

 

 

 

a

 
   

— aud Cheslerficlds .. theyre mild

= \ and yet
ales

© 1936, LicGeTr & MyeRS TOBACCO Co.

