 

May, 1939

Washington and Lee University

Alumni Magazine

Pla ae ¥
eee am Fag
eS eel

‘

 

 

 

Appalachian
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas
James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

Atlanta, Georgia

Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building

Baltimore, Maryland
A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road

Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chicago, Illinois

W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company
Cinclaetl Ohio

Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

James M. Faulkner, 4503 Glenwick Lane, Uni-

versity Park, Dallas, Texas
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,

Florida
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky

Robert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway
Memphis, Tennessee

J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 832 Metarie Road
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.

Parkersburg, West Virginia
. B. Pennybacker

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

Gan Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los

Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Ed. H. Miller, 14 N. Kingshighway
Tri-State

J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIV MAY 1939 No. 4
MENOUNIIRES cisdi 2 «ste Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor............. RicHarp P. Carrer, 1929

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PPOOUOIIENS o.wuc cic --beccivasc lanes. Josgeru T. LyKeEs, 1909
SOCretary............cc000. Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Ce EE RE Stuart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

NorMAN S. Firzyuucs, 1898
H. H. Lartmore, 1896
Joun Bett Tow1t, 1929
Dr. RicHarpD Fow.xkss, 1915
J. R. Neat, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for May 1939

PAGE
The Meaning of Class Reunions (President’s Page).............. 3
190th Finals Program—lJune 7, 8 and 9...... A. SEARING. 5
Glee Club Wins Fred Waring ‘Trophy........ tT
The Panorama of Six Sports......................4 ich te 9
Lae Same. ASSOCIATION: NOtGS 2.2.66) 56 isciciceends Licks ccapnnssstnentthn 12

ogi a ot ee tt Co ee 15

Sif
bj /

LL,

bf (a ,

"a073/fy. -

 

 

Se

gists]

<

i
i!

f

td
: ;

>

oy

 

 

I,

Crp

) mia a ST) ]

ine-<

:
“At

A "iF

jan Athy

 

 

 

“, ,

, beg
: TP =.

_
e °

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Meaning otf Class Reunions

(The President’s Page)

URING the present session I have had the pleasure
B of visiting more alumni chapters than in any one
year of my connection with the University. From these
contacts I return to the campus with new pride in the use-
fulness of Washington and Lee, in the contribution of her
sons to varied endeavors of life, and with a new
encouragement derived from the interest felt by
such men in their Alma Mater.

a oe

In the comments I have made to these chap-
ters, | have enlarged upon a question asked me
last summer by a gentleman who had some diff-
culty in clarifying in his mind the legal owner-
ship of this institution, controlled by neither the
state nor a specific religious body. Finally he in-
quired “Who is the University ?”

“ee

3y no means easy is the full answer to that question.
The University is a beautiful composite of many cooper-
ating intelligences and loyalties. ‘The trustees direct, of
course; the faculty constitute the agencies of personality
through which the task is attempted ; the students respond
with what we hope are the energies directed to their own
development. But there are more. Around us are the un-
seen but powerful continuities, the generosity of donors
like Washington, the devotion of influences like Lee. Be-
yond us are hundreds of little boys who have set already
their ambitions upon this campus. Everywhere there is the
good esteem, the sustaining interest, of an informed pub-
lic to which we must give deference.

oa

Certainly of all the elements that fuse into a college,
particularly a college of personal relations, one of the most
important is the alumni group. This statement would be
true, if no other reason existed, because the alumni are
the ultimate testimony to the merit of any institution. In
final analysis the truest standard by which a college may
be judged is the performance of its students after they
have gone into the world. “By their fruits ye shall know
them.” k ox x

There is something more pertinent, however, than this
philosophical validity for the alumni relationship and there
is something stronger than the obvious truth that any col-

 

lege, particularly the independent college, needs alumni
support. x x Ox
Colleges, if we may personalize for a moment, like to
believe that the bond which exists between the individual
and the institution is not a temporary thing, not a com-
mercial or even a selfish thing. The relationship
initiated in student days goes far beyond the pe-
riod of class assignment and fee paying and rep-
resents a kind of reciprocity of soul, permanent,
devoted, expanding.
*k «x Ox
More than the student and the school are
involved in this relationship. There is the fur-
ther tie between student and student, sometimes
extremely helpful, often the initial stage of life-
long friendship. ‘The inter-actions of students
among themselves have always seemed to me
sufficient argument, if all others should fail, for the cam-
pus type of education as distinct from the programs of
isolated and self-directed inquiry that might conceivably
bring the same intellectual result.
cee
The class reunion idea is an effort to give to both as-
pects of this spiritual allegiance—student and college to-
a brief but effec-

 

gether with student and college friend
tive renewal, a re-creation in pleasant fancy the old and
happy day. It prevents the mood of melancholy that oc-
casionally possesses the returning alumnus who comes
back to the familiar scene only to feel keenly the absence
of the familiar faces. It affords opportunity for the alum-
nus to appraise the changes, yes, but we trust more de-
cidedly to establish anew happy and helpful associations.
Human hearts know few joys, if indeed any, greater than
the happiness of greeting old friends. The class reunion
means the meeting of old friends in the old place, where
the old currents of affection and enthusiasm may again be
charged with power. nt era

Washington and Lee has one characteristic that affects
alumni relations in peculiar, possibly in unique, manner.
As the students come from widely dispersed sources, so
the alumni return and live in widely scattered centers. ‘The

(Continued on page 24)

[3]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ig0th Finals Program—June 7, 8 and 9

HIS is the time of the year—despite the European sit-
cad and the Far East situation and what not—when
thoughts of men turn longingly to their Alma Maters
and to June, since June means Finals and Finals means
meeting old friends again.

Other “formal” reunions will be held for the classes
of 1919, 1924, 1929 and 1934. Committees are sending out
letters inviting you back for the reunion, but just in case
you haven't heard from one of your committee members,

drop a card or a letter to the

 

Washington and Lee
men, like others, are no ex-
ception to this rule. So let’s
get the dates straight first of
all—Finals at Washington
and Lee will be held Wed-
nesday June 7, Thursday
June 8, and Friday June 9
this year. You'll be here,
won't you?

lamiliar scenes and fa-
miliar faces will be in Lex-

PROGRAM
Finals Week, 1939

Sunday, June Fourth
11:00 a.m. Baccalaureate Sermon...........00000 Lee Chapel

Dr. William M. Elliott, Jr.
The Druid Hills Presbyterian Church
Atlanta, Georgia

Wednesday, June Seventh

10:00 p.m. Interfraternity Ball....Doremus Gymnasium

Alumni Office and you'll get
full details by return mail.
From all indications, this
is going to be the best Finals
ever held at Washington and
Lee, from the alumni point
of view. Letters to the
Alumni Office indicate more
alumni than ever will come
back for the three-day pro-
gram. If you can’t get here
for the entire program, come

ington to greet you. You'll

Thursday, June Eighth

back for any part of it.

see Old George still perched 10:00 a.m. Meeting, Board of Trustees...... Tucker Hall let’s quote from one of
securely atop Washington 2:00 p.m. Meeting, Alumni Council....../ Alumni Office the letters sent out by a class
; GRO SiemER. A FAMSMIE Li. apcccedccsncedscscees Doremus Gymnasium .
‘olleve. e ‘ly pe : ark reunion comunittee :
College, entirely unmindful 8:00 p.m. Alumni Smoker......Student Union Building
of the troubles of the world 9:00 p.m. President’s Reception to Graduates, Trus- Meet us in Lexington;
and extending a figurative tees, Visiting Alumni and Parents............ renew those old friendships,
hand opel EME Rte 8d es Sa | acelptersnbeonettdooschscnsesibctaneaei President's Home a SENS aes tla i cee
lane OF we:come.'+ OU - 10:00 p.m. Senior-Alumni Ball....Doremus Gymnasium : 7
the campus green and the too long; see the great
; Friday, June Ninth eis ee ks
same shaded walks just as ; strides the University has
inviting as they used to be. 8:30 a.m. Meeting, Alumni Board paceupanel Alumni Office made; and we will guaran-
, 10:45a.m. Annual Procession of Trustees, Faculty and .
You'll see the long row of GradUates :ictccssssidishbiatiaaiie Lee Chapel tee that you will go back
tall white columns in front 11:00 a.m. Commencement Exercises.......... Lee Chapel home feeling that you have
f . aay cas ban ttre z i
of the main buildings, and | Address: Dr. Francis P. Gaines been rejuvenated and _ that
F 12:45 p.m. Alumni Luncheon....University Dining Hall yf \ é
you'll want to go down to 2:00 p.m. Meeting, Alumni, Ince.............00 Tucker Hall your wish to turn back years
North River the afternoon 4:00 p.m. Crew Boat Race.............cccccceeees North River of years of life has now been

6:30 p.m.
11:00 p.m.
6:00 a.m.

of Friday, June 9, to see the
boat races. You used to go
down to see who was best,

 

Class Reunion Dinners
Pinal, Ball iitise.icédesds Doremus Gymnasium

College Friendships..Doremus Gymnasiums

granted.”
Here are class reunion
committee members:

 

 

Albert Sydney or Harry
Lee, didn’t you? Then you'll want to roam about the cam-
pus, and if you are one of those who hasn't been back
since completion of the remodeling program, which really
changed the interior of the buildings, you'll be pleasantly
surprised.

Makes you just a little bit homesick to think about all
those things, doesn’t it? Of course it does.

There will be class reunions, highlighted by the 25th
anniversary reunion of the class of 1914.

Class of 1914 — Henry
(Hink) Barker, chairman, Bristol, Tenn.; Walter
(Happy) Wilkins, Pine Bluff, Ark.; Stuart (Troke)
Moore, Lexington, Va. Class of 1924—Hagan Minnich,
chairman, Bristol, Tenn.; Al Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.;
Goodrich (Scram) Sale, Welch, W. Va. Class of 1929—
Lewis Powell, chairman, Richmond, Va.; Al McCardell,
Norfolk, Va.; Henry Johnston, Birmingham, Ala. Class
of 1934—Ev Tucker, chairman, Tucker, Ark.; Bud Han-
ley, Washington, D. C.; John Thomas, Charleston, W. Va.

[5]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

An Alumni Visiting Club ?

(Epitor’s Note: Not long ago an interesting letter
and an even more interesting suggestion came to the
Alumni O ffice from Haney B. Conner, class of 1905, 3648
North Boulevard, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Parts of the
letter are reproduced here, and comments on the sugges-
tion for an “Alumni Visiting Club” will be welcomed by
the editors of THE ALUMNI MAGAzINE.—R.P.C.)

Congratulations! Splendid issues of the magazine!
The “Honor System—lInternational” by President Gaines
is a gem of literature to be classed with Lincoln's Gettys-
burg address. Please thank him for me.

You ask for letters from various alumni. | would like
to inaugurate the “Alumni Visiting Club,’ to be composed
of all alumni who either make a visit to other alumni or
of those alumni who entertain a visiting alumnus—and
who will write to THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE the news of
such visits. It has been thirty-four years since I left the
campus of Washington and Lee. Being the lucky con-
testant in eight applicants for a scholarship to the Uni-
versity of Nashville, Tennessee, | managed to get my
A.B. and B.S. at the latter institution. But I have not lost
my love and admiration for Washington and Lee, nor for-
gotten the moral training received there. And during these
many years since leaving there | have seen few graduates
from Washington and Lee. It was my pleasure to know
personally Ernest B. Kruttschnitt, attorney, of New Or-
leans, and Governor Luther EK. Hall, of Monroe, Louis-
iana, the latter being our governor when I was first elected
to the state legislature. Both of these Washington and Lee
alumni have passed to their eternal reward. The only
other Washington and Lee alumnus to cross my path was
Edgar Sydenstricker, who visited Baton Rouge while I
was state treasurer.

How pleasant it would be for me if some of the alumni
who travel to Louisiana would make a visit to my home,
and give me more news of Washington and Lee and of
themselves. A cordial invitation is herewith extended to
them. Louisiana is the “Sugar Bowl” of the U. S. We
produce more furs than all of Canada. Our salt and sul-
phur supply is inexhaustible. Our oil wells are multiply-
ing rapidly, and the output is now so large that production
is being limited by production quotas. Nearly every ham-
let in the state is serving natural gas, and we supply nat-
ural gas to Birmingham, Atlanta, Chattanooga, Memphis,
St. Louis and other cities outside the state. We also lead
in the production of rice.

More news will come to you from visitors to alumni
than from the alumni directly, and I believe that an
“Alumni Visiting Club” will pay big dividends in cordial-

ity, friendship and brotherly love. And it is a pleasure for
me to start it off with this invitation, which is as genuine
as southern hospitality affords.

 

Arnold Gets Judgeship

WASHINGTON AND L£E’s list of men high in judicial
circles was lengthened in March when Governor James H.
Price of Virginia appointed Robert W. Arnold of Wav-
erly, Virginia, class of 1908, as judge of the Third Ju-
dicial Circuit to fill a
vacancy created by the
death of Judge Marshall
kK. Paterson.

The appointment,
subject to the approval
of the 1940 General As-
sembly, was effective
immediately. The Third
Judicial Circuit em-
braces the counties of
Sussex, Prince George,
Greensville and Bruns-
wick, and the city of
Hopewell.

Judge Arnold, who
is 53 years old, has been

 

a practicing attorney for 3
some thirty years. He Robert W. Arnold
received his early edu-

cation in the schools of Waverly and Norfolk and was
graduated in law from Washington and Lee in 1908. He
practiced in Waverly with his father, the late Judge Rich-
ard Watson Arnold, until 1911, and practiced there with
his brother until 1916.

In 1919, Judge Arnold was appointed examiner of
records for the Third Judicial Circuit, a post which he
still retains. He was elected Mayor of Waverly in 1915
and served two terms in that office. In the early 1920's,
Judge Arnold practiced for about two years in Tampa,
Florida, but then returned to Waverly and has remained
in practice in Sussex and adjoining counties since that
time.

Judge Arnold married Miss Aline St. John of Mobile,
Alabama, in 1912. They have three children, Thomas St.
John Arnold, first lieutenant, United States Reserves;
Robert W. Arnold, Jr., law student at Washington and
Lee, and Mary Prince Arnold of Waverly.

He is a member of the Episcopal Church, the Pi Kappa
Alpha Fraternity, and the Commonwealth’s Club of
Richmond, Virginia.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

John G. Varner (holding cup), director of music at Washington and Lee, receives trophy from Fred Waring, center. Ross Her-

sey, Glee Club president, is at the left and members of the club are looking on.

(Photo courtesy Washington Daily News)

Glee Club Wins Fred Waring Trophy

N the night of April 13, in Loew’s Capitol Theatre

O

hands estimated at more than five thousand, Fred Waring

at Washington, before an audience which stage

of the well-known “Pennsylvanians” presented a hand-
some loving cup to the Glee Club of Washington and Lee
University, winners in a contest which Waring had just
sponsored. During the week, six clubs from the Maryland
and Virginia district had appeared on separate nights,
each singing a contest song of its own chosing under the
direction of its leader. In addition each club sang the
Waring theme song, “The Night Is Young,” under the
baton of the band maestro himself. On the final evening
of the contest, all clubs were assembled on the stage of the
Capitol Theatre, and Waring presented the cup. The
Washington and Lee club chose as its contest number the
medieval Ave Maria of Arcadelt. It was awarded the de-
cision by four Washington critics who judged the club
from the standpoint of stage poise, diction, interpreta-
tion, ete.

Besides appearing on two separate days with the
“Pennsylvanians” the Washington and Lee group broad-
casted twice in a variety show at the studios of WRC. The
first broadcast, though local, drew a studio audience of
over one hundred people, and the second went out over a
national hook-up. During the third day of their visit, at

N

the invitation of Clarendon Smith, the club had the pleas-
ure of singing before the Central Business Men’s Asso-
ciation at a banquet held in Washington’s Hourglass Club.

But possibly the most stimulating experience of the
four-day trip was the observance at close range of the ac-
tivities which go on behind the scenes in one of the largest
and most elaborate theatres in the country. The boys were
assigned dressing rooms and a rehearsal room in the
Capitol Theatre Building; and on Wednesday they were
rehearsed for approximately five hours, with time out
only for lunch, by Jack Best, assistant to Waring. Later,
they were rehearsed briefly by Waring himself. Such a
close study of Waring’s methods produced a thrill, but

the realization that they themselves held a “spot” in the
show added to the excitement. The pleasure of this brief
moment in the spotlight and the inspiration of both Best
and Waring would have been sufficient reward for all ef-
forts; but both pleasure and excitement were doubled
when the Washington and Lee club was announced to be
the winner of the contest. Each individual member was
then presented with a sterling silver medal for his watch
chain, and a large golden cup was presented to the club as
a group.

Among the more pleasant circumstances of the Wash-

(Continued on page 8)

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

 

Henry Boley

Henry Bo.tey, who probably knew more Washington
and lee alumni than any other man and who was made an
honorary alumnus of the University last June at Finals,
died unexpectedly at his home in Lexington on Febru-
ary 27. He was 56 years old and for years had managed

Soley’s Book Store, one of the landmarks of Lexington’s
Main Street.

Publication of Lexington in Old Virginia, regarded as
one of the best contributions to the historical lore of the
Old Dominion, culminated one of Henry Boley’s dreams.
The book was published in 1936 and has been widely read.
In it he recorded the life and characters of a community
of which he was a genuine part. He obtained material for
the book not so much from historical documents as from
conversations with old residents.

Funeral services were held on February 28 and inter-
ment was in the Lexington cemetery.

 

Leonrpas H. Ketriy of Charleston, West Virginia,
LL.B. 1893, died recently. He had been a United States
district attorney and also served as chairman of the Demo-
cratic Executive Committee of West Virginia.

THe Rev. WittiAmM §S. CAmpsBELL, D. D., widely
known Presbyterian clergyman and a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee, died April 17 in Richmond, Virginia. He
was editor for more than twenty years of the Presbyterian
of the South, retiring three years ago from that position.
After being graduated from Washington and Lee with an
A.B. in 1882 and a B.S. the following year, he attended
Union Theological Seminary. In 1910 he became an editor
of the Presbyterian of the South and in 1914 became
owner, editor and publisher.

 

A letter from Mrs. Rose G. Stone, of Belpre, Ohio, 1s
the first news we have had in the :alumni office of the
death of her husband, Grorce C. STONE, on December 24,
19306.

ProFEssOoR WILLIAM COoANn, head of the Washington
and Lee department of accounting, died March 31 at his
home in Lexington after a long illness. He was 68 and
had headed the department since 1920. Services were held
at the home, and burial was in Dayton, Ohio. His widow,
laura Detamore Coan, survives.

Professor’ Coan was born in New Orleans, and ma-
triculated at Palmer College in lowa where he received a
bachelor of arts degree. He held a master’s degree from
Columbia University and studied also at Antioch College,
Ohio, and Whitman College, Walla Walla, Washington.
He received a master’s degree in English from Whitman.

He was a member of The American Economic Asso-
ciation, American Association of University Professors,
American Accounting Association, and the American Sta-
tistical Association.

Glee Club Wins Fred Waring Trophy

(Continued from page 7)
ington visit was the opportunity it afforded the members
of the club to form contacts and associations with the
Washington alumni. The trip to the capital was made pos-
sible through the hospitality of the Washington alumni
chapter, who very generously provided accommodations
for the group. It is therefore with a feeling of sincere
gratitude that the Washington and Lee singers express
their appreciation to their Washington hosts for the cour-
tesies and good-will so kindly extended and for the pleas-
ures which they so generously afforded. An especial vote
of thanks is extended to R. W. Hynson (father of Frank
Hynson 1941), who arranged for the accommodations ;
and to H. M. Brown (father of Paul Brown 1941), who
made it possible for the club to appear with the Waring

JI.G.V.

show.

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Panorama of Six Sports

By Lea Boorn, 1940

Student Assistant, Washington and Lee News Bureau

N taking a general cross-section of spring sports at Wash-

ington and Lee, the broad panorama of six sports 1s,
of course, a veritable mass of animate color and activity ;
but from all this there arise two outstanding conditions
which stand out like a
pair of sore thumbs.

Two of these six
sports are as conspic-
uous on the campus as
the old political Big
Clique was in the
“Dark Ages” of “‘the
early thirties.” While
baseball, track, golf,
and tennis maintain
their respective posi-
tions in the athletic
limelight, lacrosse and
crew are rocketing to
popularity. But aston-
ishing as it may seem,
not because of any-
thing swashbuckling
which the artisans of
these two activities
have been able to ma-
neuver, but because of
the prevailing financial
conditions under which
they are forced to
work.

Members of both
teams have become
martyrs to under-
financed and under-
manned activities on
the Washington and Lee campus, all because they have
carried on so remarkably under adverse conditions.

Gathering a few funds where they may, acting as their
own booking agents, and manipulating their own finances
in a valiant effort to subsist, the students which comprise
and conduct these two activities are sacrificing time and
money without University support (comparatively speak-

 

Cap’n Dick Smith, W. and L. baseball coach and athletic director, shakes
hands with Johnny Dill, of Paterson, N. J., Generals’ diamond captain.

ing), yet are acting as envoys throughout the Middle and
South Atlantic States for the University, all of which is

not doing the school any harm whatsoever, especially along

the lines of garnering recognition and picking up publicity
which is definitely fa-
vorable to the Univer-
sity as a whole, rather
than to these boys in-
dividually.

Of course, the Uni-
versity did not call for
candidates for these
two activities of la-
crosse and crew, yet it
has been sanctioned
without financial sup-
port worth speaking
of ; financial support
simply wasn’t avail-
able—don't get the idea
that anyone opposes
crew or lacrosse.

Analyzing the sit-
uation in another light,
the condition is not ex-
actly in keeping with
the democratic meth-
ods for which Wash-
ington and Lee has
stood through the gen-
erations. In other
words, the two newest
athletic activities are
not attractive to those
boys who do not have
money of their own to
sink into the venture. Time and time again, members of
the lacrosse team and the crew have been forced to dig
into their own pockets to take a trip or to buy a new piece
of equipment. The fact that this may be asked of any in-
tegral member or participant at any time is not enticing
some boys to go out for the sport when, as a matter of
fact, they may be the very ones needed to fill in with a

[9 |

powerful oar, or with a netted stick on the lacrosse field.

But let’s take more of a bird’s eye view of the sit-
uation.

The crew, which only in the past couple of years has
filed its name in the intercollegiate ranks, is drawing the
public eye from Maine to Florida, whether it be win,
place, or show. During the spring vacation a few weeks
back, some ten or more enthusiastic youngsters in the best
physical condition, carried Blue and White banners down
to Florida to push an eight-oared shell across Lake Mait-
land at Winter Park. Not even taking a coach (they don't
have one) and referring to themselves as the only equip-
ment, they were down there to race a powerful Rollins
College crew on the latter’s home course.

The Washington and Lee crew does not even own an
eight-oared shell, which sounds like playing a baseball
game without bases, or a basketball game without baskets.
Reaching Florida, they were forced to borrow a recondi-
tioned shell from their hosts, who, it must be noted,
treated our crew with every courtesy at their command.
In this borrowed boat, and utilizing the services of a bor-
rowed coach, picked up in Florida, they went to work for
two days to prepare to row against the best crew in the
South.

Of course they were beaten, but not by any over-
whelming margin.

Boys with an ordinary amount of pride would have
been ashamed to expose themselves to the possible ridicule
which might have been the fare of the Washington and
Lee crew. But with more determination than any “Gas
House Gang,” the Generals’ pride carried them the other
way. Their pride was in the University and with hopes of
a vanquishing act over their Florida rivals they borrowed
the boat and other paraphernalia and went to work.

They. were bunked, wined, and dined by the Flori-
dians, given about $50 for traveling expenses, and made
ends meet.

So it is that the Washington and Lee crew, with a pair
of four-oared shells, both of which have become obsolete,
with which to burn up the old North River course in prac-
tice sessions, goes into stiff intercollegiate competition
with no equipment, but lots of that old “jissum” which
comes with will and ambition and the love of one of the
greatest sports in the books.

Henry Braun, 1940, a rugged, bronzed youngster from
Mexico, whose 175 pounds of solidness has carried
through a host of wrestling victories (captain-elect of
wrestling for next season), carries the major burden.
Braun, because of the lack of a coach and who has had
probably more experience than the rest of the squad, has
devoted his efforts untiringly toward moulding a mighty

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

crew. Their training program is rigid, and needs be, due
to the tremendous physical strain to which they must ex-
pose themselves.

It is the ambition of Braun and the remainder of the
crew to some day build a boat house and purchase a ship-
worthy shell. The North River has long been hazardous,
and is the nemesis and pet-hate of every opponent that has
been unfortunate enough to schedule the Generals on the
l.exington course. ‘The 1939 schedule calls for no regattas
at home.

About a dozen miles from Lexington down near Glas-
gow on the James, lies the possibility of one of the
smoothest courses anywhere. This spot, easily available
(some of the crew members have autos), could be con-
verted into a splendid three-mile straitaway, the ideal of
any regatta, and a small boathouse to shed a shell or so
and containing showers and a few lockers could be erected
practically overnight. This bit of nourishment would build
up the sport tremendously at Washington and Lee and
will ultimately loom as a necessity if the activity is to be a
“going proposition.”

Members of the crew have sheepishly admitted that
they have coughed up a meagre fifty dollars in payment
for an old second-hand shell, purchased from Kollins,
believing that anything would be an improvement over the
utter lack of any eight-oared rigging.

The 1939 personnel is as follows: Stroke, Bob Davis
of Wauwatosa, Wisconsin; No. 7, Alex Bratenahl of
Bethesda, Maryland; No. 6, Henry Braun of Tapachula,
Mexico; No. 5, Al Kreimer of Cincinnati, Ohio; No. 4,
Barney Farrier of Philadelphia; No. 3, Jim Willis of
Chicago; No. 2, Bob Early of Cincinnati; No. 1, Oscar

‘nnenga of Freeport, Illinois; and Coxswain, Tommy
Crawford of Decatur, Illinois.

Likewise battling against the odds, yet scrapping all
the way, is the lacrosse team.

Undefeated at this writing, the stickmen have turned
back the powerful Navy B team, and the University of
Virginia, Dixie League champions last year.

Last season was the first in intercollegiate competition
for the lacrosse men, ‘The sport was organized here by
Captain Johnny Alnutt, a Baltimore lad who had swung
a stick for St. Paul’s school. Alnutt managed the entire
thing in its infancy, issued calls for candidates and led the
squad to a second-place position in the newly-formed
Dixie Lacrosse League, the organization of which Alnutt
was also instrumental in founding.

When the sport was begun, it was necessary to find a
playing field, a coach, players, and equipment.

Last year the feature of the entire schedule pitted the

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Generals against the vaunted Johns Hopkins squad, an
omnipotent team which had gained national honors for
years. The match was ultimately cancelled, since Wilson
Field had just been sown with new grass for the follow-
ing football season, and one of the nation’s truly top-flight
lacrosse teams could not be entertained on “the island”
over by V. M. I. This island in North River has been used
for a practice field but is not of proper size and contour
for intercollegiate affairs. However, the sore need for ath-
letic fields has been long realized in Lexington and a study
of the situation continues to reveal the fact that the sur-
rounding topography does not lend itself to grading off
intramural and other athletic locations in one swoop.

In regard to the physical facilities, it would be only
fair to all concerned to point out that never has the use of
Wilson Field been denied lacrossemen, but anyone who
has ever seen this site, will know that you can’t get a base-
ball team, a track team, and spring football teams, as well
as intramurals, all on one piece of ground, and still have
room for an 80-yard lacrosse field.

The lacrosse coaching set-up drew a voluntary enlist-
ment from Dr. Larkin (Monk) Farinholt of the Chem-
istry Department, who, although unable because of aca-
demic duties to give full-time cooperation, has helped the
embryonic foundations of the sport here tremendously.
Dr. Farinholt has called upon the broad experience he re-
ceived as one of the nation’s greatest lacrosse men, and
built from a combination of inexperienced novices a team
that can stack up with any competition in the Southern
states.

Although many of the aspirants for the ten positions
on the team had never had sticks in their hands prior to
coming to Washington and Lee, Coach Farinholt and
Captain Alnutt managed to mobilize some pretty fair men
and a mass of fighting spirit. Sherman (Skippy) Hender-
son, brilliant attack man from Roanoke, Virginia, set a
torrid pace for the nation’s high scorers last year and was
declared unofficial high scorer in the United States. ‘This
season, the opposition has watched Henderson like a pack
of hungry cannibals, yet his sprees have continued.

Then there is Alnutt, who, with Henderson and Paul
Gourdon of Long Island, made all-Dixie honors last
spring, Gourdon, Bayard Berghaus of Baltimore, Ed
Haislip of Caldwell, New Jersey, and several other so-
called veterans for the 1939 nucleus. Coach Farinholt was
extremely fortunate when two freshmen, Edgar Boyd and
Frank Lamotte, both of Baltimore, enrolled this year.
Both boys were chosen all-prep in Maryland last year in
St. Paul uniforms, and have been on the heated side in
the opening 5-3 and 7-5 victories over Navy and Virginia,
respectively.

The matter of financing this group has also presented
a definite problem.

Each member of the squad was asked to build a
“kitty” for the purchase of the needed equipment. Heavy
gloves, sticks, balls, and somewhat Martian-looking head-
gears were needed for the protection of the players (the
sport is extremely rough).

Donating from five dollars and up willingly, the equip-
ment was bought. This year, since the activity has not yet
come under the regular University curriculum, the play-
ers themselves canvassed the campus selling season tickets
to the home contests at the amazing low price of two bits.

Trips are necessarily cheap ones with practically no
guarantees and players have consistently financed them
without other support.

When chided over the misfortune of having to leave
school during spring dances and thereby missing the social
functions in order to meet Swarthmore at the Pennsyl-
vania school on April 22, members of the squad retaliated
with the statement that they would receive a substantial
guarantee, and after all, guarantees and not dance dates
was the only thing which could carry them through the
season.

Those boys like their sport—at any cost.

 

PERHAPS the most extensive program of its kind ever
arranged at Washington and Lee was offered for the Uni-
versity’s Religious Emphasis Week, April 12, 13 and 14.
‘The three days were devoted to assemblies in Lee Chapel,
at which Dr. Arthur Lee Kinsolving of Boston was the
speaker, and to discussions in the fraternity houses and
at the Student Union Building. The program was ar-
ranged and directed by Harry Philpott, director of relig-
ious activities at Washington and Lee.

 

HERBERT Boutpin Hawes, LI.B. 1895, of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, has done much writing along historical
lines. In 1930 he published an historical novel, The Daugh-
ter of the Blood, and a 700-page treatise on the Virginia
and West Virginia Prohibition Laws, published by the
Michie Company, of Charlottesville. He is now writing a
history of Lynchburg.

 

SAMUEL H. Witttams, of Lynchburg, class of 1914,
recently was elected president of the council of the inte-
grated Virginia State Bar, created by the 1938 General
Assembly.

 

JOHN STrick er, LL.B. 1927, has been elected presi-
dent of the Roanoke, Virginia, Bar Association. He for-
merly was chairman of the Roanoke city Republican ex-
ecutive committee.

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Pittsburgh

CHARLES P. Ropinson, 1910, was elected president of
the Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter at a meeting at the Met-
ropolitan Club in Pittsburgh on March 13. Charles T.
Lile, 1917, was named vice-president, and David D. John-
son, 1921, secretary. O. W. Richardson, 1910, was elected
to serve on the alumni council.

Dr. Gaines and Cy Young attended the meeting. Dr.
Gaines discussed the University and some of its prob-
lems, and Cy Young discussed the athletic program.

Dr. D. S. Carnahan, father of D. S. Carnahan, Jr.,
now a student at the University, was a guest at the meet-
ing. Alumni attending included :

Maurice J. Arnd, 1930; W. Frank Barnard, 1912;
Robert M. Brown, 1936; John W. Corfield, 1928; Wil-
liam G. Gault, 1930; Monty Harris, 1928; David D. John-
son, 1921; Forbes M. Johnson, 1936; John E. Jones,
1928; John G. Koedel, 1928; George H. Lee, 1900; Dr.
T. V. Leatherman, 1924.

J. R. Leggate, 1925; Charles T. Lile, 1917; D. S.
Mullins, 1936; Millard F. Null, 1914; Dudley D. Pendle-
ton, 1891; Ben L. Rawlins, 1930; Dewey A. Reynolds,
1922; Orange W. Richardson, 1910; Charles P. Robin-
son, 1910; Sam H. Showell, 1916; Joe Shuman, 1925;
John S. Teggart, 1932; Charles Watkins, 1909; and Sam-
uel W. Winebrenner, 1917.

Chicago

‘THIRTY-SIX persons attended the Washington and Lee
alumni meeting in Chicago March 30; four prospective
students and six fathers of students attended. Dr. Gaines
addressed the meeting.

Thornton W. Snead was elected president of the
group; Dr. George Schnath, vice-president; W. F. Sy-
monds, secretary ; and Colonel Elijah Funkhouser, alumni
representative. Alumni present included :

William Cooke Mulligan, W. B. Hoofstitler, Arnold
S. Dallana, Charles L. Walker, Jr., A. D. Symonds, John
A. Houston, Gerard FE. Grashorn, Edward Raulsin, Rich-
ard Simon, Stanley K. Fish, T. W. Snead, Philip P. Page,
Frederick L. Fox, William F. Symonds, Tom Mercein,
Dr. George W. Schnath, Walter Hamilton, K. M. Stone,
Maurice John Swan, Jr., A. H. Henke, Felix R. Seymour,
Herman P. Davidson, John A. Culley, Mark I. Atwood.

Richmond

RICHMOND ALUMNI meeting on February 22 heard
Dr. Gaines discuss major problems in modern education.
Dr. Gaines spoke at a dinner meeting of the Richmond
chapter ; fifty alumni attended. Those present included :

James N. Williams, Ernest C. Barrett, Jr., W. J. Ritz,
Verbon E. Kemp, Carleton E. Jewett, A. M. Wash, Don-
ald P. Boyer, John B. Simmons, W. M. Rogers, Jr., E. G.
Bailey, M. J. Fulton, L. L. Shirley, Dr. Richard Fowlkes,
Wiley Taylor, J. Surles Lewis, W. W. Beverley, Samuel
A. Anderson, Jr., E. Angus Powell, John A. Friend,
Charles W. Moss, R. W. Cole, Matt Wiltshire, I. J. Bost-
wick, Lewis F. Powell, Jr.

Howard McK. Hickey, Daniel C. O'Flaherty, Jr., W.
A. Williams, Jr., Lewis EF. Jarrett, Richard L,. Simpson,
LeRoy Hodges, Jr., W. E. Wiltshire, Jr., Otto Stumpf,
Walter Lee Hopkins, C. H. Morrissett, Dr. J. M. Hut-
cheson, Miles Cary Johnson, T. M. Curtis, Walter C.
Johnston, John P. Lynch, Charles H..Phillips, Sam E.
Cowin, Jr., George S. Riggs, T. Denning Davis, Bill Raf-
tery, C. H. Hamilton, and Jonah L,. Larrick.

Jacksonville

THE JACKSONVILLE ALUMNI CHAPTER was reorgan-
ized at a meeting February 28, at which time Dr. Gaines
addressed the group.

A resolution has been passed by the chapter, urging
the revival of the Washington and Lee-University of
Florida football game on Thanksgiving, “‘or thereabouts.”

Thirty alumni attended the reorganization meeting
and elected RKhydon Latham president; Fred Valz, vice-
president ; and Jack Ball, secretary-treasurer. Judge Bay-
ard B. Shields and M. H. Myerson was elected to serve
with officers on the executive committee. Henry W. Dew
was named representative on the alumni council. Those
attending the meeting included :

Charles L.. Cranford, James A. Cranford, Charles C.
Smith, Robert L. Hutchinson, LeRoy Dart, W. M. Ball,
Roland Freeman, Russell L.. Frink, C. T. Dawkins, Harry
B. Fozzard, Inman P. Crutchfield, Eli Finkelstein, Harry
M. Wilson, Henry W. Dew, James P. Hill, Fred M.
Valz, Damon G. Yerkes.

M. H. Myerson, L.. D. Howell, Rhydon Latham, John
Pilkington, F. B. Enneis, Herman Ulmer, Bayard B.

[12]

T he cAlumni M agazine, Washin gton and Lee University

Shields, Dave Linebaugh, W. C. Anderson, Dozier De-
vane, S. R. Marks, John W. Ball, and George Couper
Gibbs.

Washington

ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY persons — the largest
number of people ever to attend an alumni function in the
nation’s capital—were present at a banquet given by the
District of Columbia Alumni Chapter in Washington,
D. C., on February 18, 1939. The dinner is an annual af-
fair given in honor of the memory of George Washington
and Robert E. Lee, the two illustrious Virginians for
whom the University is named. This year the scene was
the East Room of the Mayflower Hotel. Peculiarly suited
to the occasion were two large portraits, one of Washing-
ton and one of Lee, behind the speakers’ table.

Dr. Gaines, President of the University, gave an in-
teresting report on the present activities at the Univer-
sity, and invited the alumni present to come back and see
the many improvements which have been made in recent
years.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by Senator Carter Glass,
who has long been one of the University’s most valued
friends. Senator Glass’ two sons, Powell Glass and Car-
ter Glass, Jr., both of whom are alumni of the University,
made a special trip from Lynchburg to be present for the
occasion.

Elwood Seal, 1914, a native of Lexington, Virginia,
and now Corporation Counsel for the District of Colum-
bia, acted as master of ceremonies and toastmaster. Two
members of Congress who are alumni of the University
were also present—Senator Wm. H. Smathers, 1914, and
Representative Clarence Brown. Representative A. Willis
Robertson from Lexington also attended.

The parents of students now attending the University
from Washington and its surrounding territory were
present, and a number of the principals and headmasters
of high schools and preparatory schools in Washington
were guests. Among the alumni attending were :

James B. Akers, Sr., 1904; James B. Akers, Jr., 1936;
Henry FE. Allen, 1934; Baldwin B. Bane, 1917; David M.
Barclay, 1899; Brian Bell, 1911; Orville C. Bell, 1913;
Theodore B. Benson, 1907 ; Frank Burkhart, 1933; W. O.
Burtner, 1917; Edmund D. Campbell, 1918; Kit Carson,
1938; Richard P. Carter, 1928; Russell Chase, 1934; Mel-
ville B. Cox, 1931; Everett N. Cross, 1932; Edward 5.
Dawson, 1906; Allan S. DeLand, 1932; Walter H. Dun-
lap, 1906.

David C. Eberhart, 1930; Wade Hampton Ellis, 1889;
Benjamin C. Flournoy, 1897; Herbert C. Griffith, 1935;
F. P. Guthrie, 1911; G. Hilliard Harper, 1933; Collas G.

Harris, 1932; Richmond W. Holt, 1896; Woodson P.
Houghton, 1915; Richard W. Hynson, 1908; H. Wise
Kelly, 1913; Major Bernard R. Kennedy, 1923; Rev.
John Olin Knott, 1907 ; Graham N. Lowdon, 1929; W. E.
Malone, 1934; Donald N. Maloy, 1938; Vincent M. Miles,
1907 ; F. Nesbitt Morrison, 1929.

FE. Marsall Nuckols, Jr., 1933; Robert L.. Owen, 1877;
Frank L. Patton, 1934; Lewis S. Pendleton, 1911; D.
George Price, 1932; H. B. Ripy, 1895; Kenneth R. Rou-
ton, 1932; E. R. Sager, 1937; Henry V. Saunders, 1933;
Elwood Seal, 1914; Chester S. Shade, 1920; K. EK. Spen-
cer, 1929; Charles F. Suter, 1933; Merle Suter, 1930;
Robert Thomas, 1938; A. Dawson Trundle, 1904; Ed-
ward A. Turnville, 1936; Alexander M. Walker, 1920;
Albert Weinberg, Jr., 1931; Rhea Whitley, 1927; Robert
K. Williams, 1913; James Arthur Wood, 1924; J. H.
Young, 1919.

The officers of the District of Columbia Chapter are:
Richard W. Hynson, 1908, president; Charles F. Suter,
1933, vice-president ; E. M. Nuckols, Jr., 1933, secretary-
treasurer.

Charlotte

ALUMNI of the Charlotte area met in Charlotte, North
Carolina, February 23 to hear an address by Dr. Gaines,
in which he discussed problems confronting independent
schools and colleges in the United States. Dr. Gaines also
addressed the Charlotte Kiwanis Club while in the Caro-
lina city.

Those who attended the alumni dinner, which was held
at the Hotel Charlotte, included:

From Charlotte: J. C. McPheeters, Grier Wallace,
Jr., Lightsey Wallace, Tom Glasgow, J. Norman Pease,
T. S. McPheeters, Dewey Kelner, Bomar Lowrance, John
H. Shoaf, Dr. T. Preston White, Dr. William Allan and
son John Allan, Dean Van Dyke, Dr. Frank Lane Miller,
John M. Yarborough, Jesse Leigh, Hugh Ashcraft, James
W. Wilkinson, R. D. Howerton, John L,. Crist, Charlie
Green, George Wilkinson, Fred C. Hunter, and Philip F.
Howerton.

From Belmont: The Rev. R. A. Kelley, of the Wash-
ington and Lee Ambulance Unit.

From Greensboro: Frank O. Steele, A. Stacey Gif-
ford, L.. W. Wilson, and Larry Wilson, Jr.

From Salisbury: Dr. Frank McCutchan, Charles S.
Heilig, and Charles Collier.

From Lenoir: R. M. Winborne.

From Greenville, South Carolina: Irwin P. Graham.

It was interesting that there were in attendance at the
meeting alumni who had been at Washington and Lee
under the administration of every president since George

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Custis Lee. Reminiscences of their col-
lege experiences were given by various men who were
there under President Lee, Wilson, Denny, Smith and
Gaines.

Memphis

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI met at the Memphis
University Club on March 28, with Dr. Gaines and Dr.
Tucker as their guests. Approximately sixty-five alumni
attended the meeting, including those who came from
towns in the Memphis area.

The group heard talks by Dr. Gaines and Dr. Tucker ;
discussed the Washington and Lee-Southwestern game to
be played this fall in Memphis; and discussed plans for
getting more students from the Memphis area to attend
the University.

Milledge Nail was elected president of the chapter ;
Stuart Buxton, vice-president; Jimmie Butler, secretary-
treasurer; and Dr. Sam Raines, alumni adviser.

Miami

MIAMI ALUMNI gave a dinner on March 1 for Dr.
Gaines, with about twenty old grads attending. The affair
was held at the McAllister Hotel.

Prior to the dinner meeting, Dr. Gaines was enter-
tained at luncheon at the Pan-American Airport by Lewis
Twyman, Jim Yonge, R. B. Gautier, Jr., and George T.
Clark. Those attending the dinner included:

Judge Paul D. Barns, 1915; Judge W. F. Blanton,
1911; John H. Cheatham, 1932; George T. Clark, 1925 ;
Luther L,. Copley; J. J. Fretwell, 1910; R. B. Gautier,
Jr., 1929; Charles J. Holland, 1928; Senator F. M. Hud-
son ,1890; Senator Wm. H. Malone, 1901.

John A. Moore, 1905 ; William F. Parker, 1920; Wal-
lace Ruff; O. P. Searing, 1909; W. C. Seybold, 1928;
Bernard Spector; Lewis Twyman, 1913; J. M. S. Twy-
man, 1916; M. G. Twyman, 1917; and J. Emmett Wolfe,
Jr., 1928.

Atlanta

CoNTINUING his tour of alumni chapters, Dr. Gaines
addressed former Washington and Lee students at a for-
mal banquet in Atlanta on February 24.

At the meeting, Bruce Woodruff was elected president
of the chapter ; Willis M. Everett, Jr., secretary ; and Hal
Clarke, treasurer. The group also named an executive
committee composed of Ewing S. Humphreys as chair-
man, Walter S. McElreath, Bland Terry, Bill Borries,
John Kell Martin, Jr., and George O. Moseley.

Prior to the meeting, Dr. Gaines was entertained at a

luncheon at the Atlanta Athletic Club; guests included
outstanding Georgia educators.

Alumni present at the banquet included :

Joseph Birnie, Hal Clarke, Duane Berry, Bill Borries,
Framptom E. Ellis and his wife, Alex M. Hitz and his
wife, Ewing S. Humphreys and his wife, John Kell Mar-
tin, Jr., and his wife, G. C. Moseley, Leon Patton, Arthur
Pope, Dr. Keith C. Rice and his wife, J. Sam Slicer, Dr.
Cyrus W. Strickler, Bruce Woodruff and his wife, W. A.
Ward, Jr., and his wife, T. Erwin Schneider and his wife,
Francis E.. Fuller and his wife, Henry Peeples and his
wife, Walter S. McElreath and his wife, Thomas S. Par-
rott, fred F. Waters, Murray C. Shoun, Collett H. Mun-
ger, Jr., and his wife, Willis M. Everett, Jr., and his wife.

New Orleans

Tue New OrLtéans ALuMNI Association of Wash-
ington and Lee University held its annual meeting on
April 17. The following officers of the association were
elected to serve for the year 1939-1940:

Elmore G. Dufour, president, Box 163, Slidell, Lou-
isiana; William B. Wisdom, vice-president, care of Amer-
ican Bank and Trust Company, New Orleans, Louisiana ;
William W. Ogden, secretary-treasurer, 816 Union Build-
ing, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Dallas

Tue Norra Texas Washington and lee Alumni As-
sociation met at the Baker Hotel, Dallas, ‘Texas, on Feb-
ruary 24, 1939, Due to inclement weather there were only
twenty-four present.

Jim Faulkner, Dallas, 1917, was elected president ;
A. J. Powers, Fort Worth, 1899, was elected executive
vice-president; Rosser J. Coke, Jr., Dallas, 1934, first
vice-president ; D. S$. MacDonald, Jr., Durant, Oklahoma,
1935, second vice-president ; and . A. Nesbitt, 1932, sec-
retary and treasurer.

 

THe UNiversity CLup in Cleveland recently carried
a picture of the Washington and Lee campus on the cover
of its menu. The picture of Washington and Lee was the
fourth in a series featuring leading colleges and universi-
ties throughout the United States.

 

FRANK Hacuk, JR., who attended the Washington and
Lee Law School from 1932-1936, recently was named a
lay judge of the Court of Errors and Appeals, New Jer-
sey’s highest law tribunal. He is the son of Mayor Frank
Hague of Jersey City.

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

1893

Dr. GEORGE BOLLING
L&E, member of the Univer-
sity Board of Trustees, has
his offices at The Plaza, New
York City. He complains
loudly of having been put

 

Some of the class notes used in this issue of
Tue ALUMNI MAGAZINE were taken from letters
received by the Alumni O ffice as long ago as last fall.
The editors ask your pardon if, as a result of this,
some inaccuracies are noted; we want, however, to
give you as many good class notes as possible.

1898

CHarLes J. FAULKNER
has been general counsel of
Armour and Company for
twenty years. Mr. Faulkner
went to Armour and Com-
pany in 1905, shortly after

 

 

on a diet cutting out all his

favorite dishes such as cornbread, waffles and molasses,
sausage cakes and hot rolls, but says he has a recollection
which they cannot take from him.

Lon H. Ketty, member of the law firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight, Charleston, West Virginia, has re-
cently taken a tour through Northern Africa, Central Eu-
rope, and the British Isles. He was accompanied by his
wife and daughter.

[kk Kempner of Galveston, Texas, is president of the
United States National Bank of that city.

1896

Jupce Ransom H. Grtverr has his law office at 19
the D. & H. Building, The Plaza, New York. He says:
“Since my last letter, the embattled electorate of Colum-
bia County beat me in the general election last fall and,
while no doubt they will live to regret it, I’m afraid by the
time their collective consciences prick them to their si-
nuses, I will be retired to the Old Soldiers’ Home.”

-«.
=

J. W. Larromus says his heart warms
for old Washington and Lee every time he
receives ‘THe ALUMNI Macazine. He is
practicing law in the Citizens Bank Build-
ing, Wilmington, Delaware.

V. E. FUNKHOUSER is president of the
Funkhouser Equipment Company at 2425
Jefferson Street, Kansas City, Missouri.

1897

FRANK Mezick, after thirty-five years “MM
service as rector of Nelson Parish, Nelson
County, Virginia, retired November 1, 1938.

He is now living in Eastport, Maryland.

 

his graduation from Wash-
ington and lee. Son of an illustrious father, a United
States senator from West Virginia, and grandson of a
United States ambassador to France, Mr. Faulkner might
have coasted along indefinitely on the reputation of his
forebears. Instead he chose a field far removed from his
home and in that field he has carved out a place and a
reputation greatly to be admired.

Davip BARCLAY is with the United States Tariff Com-
mission, Washington, D. C.

Oscar C. HurrMan is president of the Continental
Can Company, Inc. He is a member of the University
Board of ‘Trustees.

1899

CotonEL Bryan Conrap, United States Army, re-
tired, is president of the Naval War College, Newport,
Rhode Island. He has been in the Navy forty-two years.
He says: “If any of the old Washington and Lee men,
particularly of 1899, come this way, I will always be glad
to welcome them and show them this great governmental
institution, which they are probably not very
familiar with but which fills a most impor-
tant niche in the government’s scheme for
the national defense.”

A. SEDDON JONES is division sales man-
ager of the Virginia-Carolina Chemical
Company. He lives on his farm at Ellerson,
Virginia.

1901

STEPHEN C. Harris has moved from
Brookline, Massachusetts, to Newton Cen-
»tre, Massachusetts. He practices law and
works his vegetable garden for recreation.
He says that forty years have passed since

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

he first came to Washington and Lee and he has never
lost interest in the grand old Alma Mater, and he never
will.

A. Frep WHITE manages two steel plants at Donora,
Pennsylvania. Says he has one wife, one son, two daugh-
ters, no births, no deaths, very few doctor’s bills.

1902

JupcE Scorr M. Lorrin is a member of the firm of
Loftin, Stokes and Calkins, Jacksonville and Miami.
Judge Loftin’s offices are in the Graham Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida.

W. DEweEy COooKE is vice-president and treasurer of
the Southern Fertilizer Company, Savannah, Georgia.

SAM PRICE is practicing law in Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia, under the firm name of Price and McWhorter.

OsMAN E. Swartz is general counsel for the United
Carbon Company, Union Building, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia. He writes his class agent: “I often think of the
days when you and I were being pushed around on many
a muddy field and usually getting the worst of the argu-
ment. After getting out of college, I found the going hard,
though the percentage of contests won was perhaps bet-
ter than in 1900 and 1901. Many times I have been pen-
alized half the distance to the goal and as I look back on
these occasions, | have no complaint against the officials
as most of the penalties were deserved. At the present
time, | am on my own thirty-yard line, but in possession
of the ball, and I feel that I can hold it for awhile.”

Rosert F. Cooper is president of the Mississippi
Synodical College, Holly Springs, Mississippi. His son
graduated from Washington and Lee in 1935.

CHARLES S. CAFFEY, Colonel, U.S. A., is professor of
Military Science and ‘Tactics at North Carolina State Col-
lege, Raleigh, North Carolina. He graduated from the
United States Military Academy in 1905,

1903

COLONEL JAMES WARREN BAGLEy retired from the
United States Army in 1936. Since January, 1937, he has
been associated with Harvard University as lecturer at
the Institute of Geographical Exploration. “Of years ago
there are vivid recollections of interesting summers in
Alaska and returns for winter sojourns in Washington on
work of the Geographical Survey; then the war and its
confusion with a year in France and Holland; a contin-

uance in the Regular Army which brought interesting and
pleasant work chiefly related to surveys and maps.”

GEORGE CoupER Grpps was recently appointed Attor-
ney General of the State of Florida, and has moved from
Jacksonville to Tallahassee.

FRED W. CraAMEr is president of the York Stone and
Supply Company, York, Pennsylvania. His two sons are
associated with him in this business. He invites any of his
former classmates at Washington and Lee who may be in
York at any time to visit him.

T. C. TurNER is manager of the Mountain States
Telephone and Telegraph Company, Fort Collins, Colo.

WILLIAM P. LAMAR lives at 45 Muscogee Road, At-
lanta, Georgia.

Ropert TricG FLANArRyY is president of the Norton
Hardware Company, Norton, Virginia. Since’ leaving
Washington and Lee he has been engaged in the mercan-
tile business. Has spent thirty years in Norton, the time
being almost equally divided between grocery and hard-
ware business. |

CLEMENT A. Boaz married Lucilla Booker of Lexing-
ton. They are living in Fort Worth, ‘Texas. Mr. Boaz is
president of the Southern Land Company and also of the
Guaranty Title Company. Most of his time, however, is
given to the management of the W. J. Boaz estate. He and
Mrs. Boaz come back to Hampden-Sydney every two
years, where Dr. Booker, the father of Mrs. Boaz, lives.
Sometimes they get back to Lexington on these trips.

1904

Max M. Brown discontinued the practice of law in
1918 and entered business and went from that into bank-
ing, and is now engaged in business banking. He is mar-
ried and has a daughter who has graduated from Ward-
Belmont and is now in the bank with her father. He has
only been in Lexington once since 1904, having come
through Lexington on his honeymoon in 1914.

1905

D. A. BRADHAM is practicing law in Warren, Ark,

D. ‘T. Moore is business manager of the Greenbrier
Military School, Lewisburg, West Virginia, which sends
a number of boys to Washington and Lee each year. He
is an elder in the Presbyterian Church and clerk of the
session of the Old Stone Church of Lewisburg, which was
built in 1797. Has a daughter who was a sophomore at
Hollins last year.

[16]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1906

James R. Caskt& is a member of the University Board
of ‘Trustees and member of the I;xecutive Committee. He
is practicing law with offices in the Peoples National Bank
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Joun F. CHARLTON is a member of the firm of Charl-
ton and Associates, Engineers, 203 Bryan Arcade, [ort
Lauderdale, Florida.

C. A. DuNLApP is working for the Atchison, ‘Topeka
and Santa Ke Railroad as an engineer. His home is in
Wellington, Kansas, and he says he
could give first-hand information as to
dust storms, but on the other hand
wishes his friends could have seen the
Kansas wheat fields at the time he was
writing.

W. H. Wiruers is head of the
Modern Languages Department of
Concord State Teachers College, Ath-
ens, West Virginia.

B. EK. Cirark has lived in Oklahoma
for thirty years, busy mostly on high-
way work of all kinds. At present he
is serving as division engineer for the
Oklahoma State Highway Department. His address is
618 N.W. Thirty-Second Street, Oklahoma City, Okla-
homa. He has three children in college.

ae an
- Ciena
a

-~ =
w .

WituiAM L,. HoGE is president of the Mengel Com-
pany, Louisville, Kentucky.

1907

CHARLES $. NICHOLS is an attorney and counsellor at
law with offices in the Washoe County Library Building,
Reno, Nevada. Has pleasant recollections of his life at
Washington and Lee and his association with Dr. George
H. Denny, whom he greatly admires.

1908
EuGENE ‘T. McILVAINE is a member of the law firm
of Milam, McIlvaine and Milam, Greenleaf Building,
Jacksonville, Florida, mainly representing corporate in-
terests and the new transportation created by buses and
trucks. Has two boys and a girl, one boy about to enter
the practice of law.

ABRAM P. Staples is Attorney General of Virginia,
having been re-elected in 1937. He was also elected a

     
 
  
   
   
 

=

member of the Interstate Commerce Commission on
Crime and appointed chairman of the Virginia Commis-
sion on Interstate Cooperation.

EARL K, Paxton, Professor of Mathematics at Wash-
ington and Lee, has had a year’s leave of absence for
graduate work at Columbia, and is now back on the job
at Washington and Lee.

ALLAN PorTER LEE says: “It certainly does not seem
like thirty years since we departed from the laboratory in
“Old Main,” but the calendar proves it. | have been plug-
ging away all these years at the chemistry and chemical
engineering of fatty oils, fatty acids,
soaps and allied products. My days at
Washington and Lee are recalled with
pleasure, particularly my association
with that sincere truth-seeker, Dr. J. L.
fi, Howe.”
Fe

RicuArp W. HyNson is manager

# of the Washington office of the Na-

¥ tional City Company of New York with

~ Offices in the American Security Build-

ing. His oldest son, Franklin, is in his
second year at Washington and Lee.

  
 
 
     

~ “ky
“--, *

RussELL CATHER says: “I am
ia

living the simple life of a country law-
yer with an occasional period of recreation as a member
of the Senate of Virginia. Incidentally, the government of
Virginia is very largely today in the control of alumni of
Washington and l.ee—from the Governor on down. Many
of them are men who were in college with us. | may also
add, very modestly, that under this regime, Virginia is
probably the best governed state in the Union.” Mr. Cather
lives in Winchester, Virginia.

-
a

PEYTON Hosson is a member of the law firm of Hob-
son, Francis and Hobson of Pikeville, Kentucky.

Horace W. PHILLIPs is living in Hardeeville, South
Carolina.

1909
Kk. W. DENMAN has been president of the First State
Bank and ‘Trust Company, Lufkin, Texas. He is chair-
man of the Board of ‘Trustees of the Lufkin School Sys-
tem. Is practicing law under the firm name of Mantooth
and Denman, Lufkin National Bank Building, Lufkin,
Texas.

FRED N. Harrison has been living in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, for the past fourteen years, as president of the Uni-

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

versal Leaf Tobacco Company. He is married and has
three children, two boys and a girl, the oldest being 18
years, the next 16, and the youngest, a daughter, nine.

CHARLES S$. GLASGOw is practicing law in Lexington,
Virginia.

1910

JAmEs W. Raper has for the past four years been em-
ployed as land purchaser for the National Park Service,
Department of the Interior. His work carries him all over
this fair land and he says, has made him something of a
gypsy. He is married and lives at present at Cave City,
Kentucky.

PuiL_Ltie WILLIAMS is practicing law in Woodstock,
Virginia. He has six children, the oldest a student at
Washington and Lee.

M. Cary JOHNSON is a member of the firm of Carneal,
Johnson and Wright, Architects and Consulting Engi-
neers, Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia.

CuHar_es P. Ropinson gets back to Lexington about
once a year where he frequently meets members of the
class of 1910. He is president of The Better Business Ser-
vice Company, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Wyatt C. Heprick has been working under the firm
name of Wyatt C. Hedrick, Inc., Architects and Engi-
neers, Fort Worth, Texas, for twenty years.

Loomis F. Kiurz has served seventeen years as City
Attorney for the Town of Maiden, North Carolina. He is
married and has two daughters.

1911

Joun S$. Mutuincs has been in the building contract-
ing business. His firm is Dye and Mullings, Columbia,
Mississippi, of which he is treasurer and general manager.

WittiAmM A cpert Rep is cashier of the First Na-
tional Bank of Troutville, Virginia, which office he has
held since 1920. He was a bachelor until 1925, but was
married in that year and has two daughters who are in
the sixth and seventh grades in schools.

Joun G. HERNDON, JR., has a son in his second year
at Washington and Lee. He is on the faculty of Haver-
ford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania.

J. G. Jounston was County Surveyor of Rockbridge
County for two years after leaving Washington and Lee
and then joined the “agricultural army,” but could not

break himself of the surveying habit and has been at it
off and on since 1924. He has a daughter in Queens-
Chicora College and a son who is a senior at Washing-
ton and Lee. His home is in Murat, Virginia.

Rosert P. BEAMAN is president of the National
Bank of Commerce, Norfolk, Virginia.

F. B. CLEMENT is practicing law in Camden, Ark.

Ben H. Farogunar has been with the Louisiana
Highway Commission for the past nine years, building
bridges. He was married in 1916 and has two daughters,
both of whom are married.

1912

WILLIAM S. DuNN has been practicing law at Bland,
Virginia, since he graduated. He has one son in college.

Guy H. BRANAMAN is at Waynesboro, Virginia. He
had one son graduate at Washington and Lee in 1935
and has another son at V. M. I.

R. T. STINSON is practicing law at Durant, Oklahoma.

J. Frank Key is with the Columbia Paper Company,
Buena Vista, Virginia.

Dr. FRANK R. Rurr is part owner of the Burnett
Sanitarium, Fresno, California, where he has been for
thirteen years. Wants to retire and putter around in a
garden with flowers. He is married and has a nice home
and three children, two boys, 20 and 15, and a daugh-
ter, 13.

WacterR LEE HopkKINs is a member of the law firm
of Hopkins and Hopkins, Law Building, Richmond, Va.

Howarp A. Doss lives at 6600 W. Fifth Street, Los
Angeles, California. He is with the Southern Pacific
Company at Los Angeles and has lived in Southern Cali-
fornia almost long enough to be a “native son.”

Crcit Gray is with the Gray Mercantile Company,
Coleman, Texas. Lost his only son, 12 years of age, in
an accident in April, 1938.

J. C. Pickens is with the Southern Railway; ad-
dress, Box 1808, Washington, D. C.

- Joun L. Crist is president and treasurer of the
Southern Dyestuff Corporation which owns and oper-
ates the first and only dyestuff factory in the ‘Textile
South. Engaged in manufacturing principally sulphur
dyestuffs in a form never before offered to the cotton
textile industry. Son, John L,. Crist, Jr., expects to enter
Washington and Lee in 1941.

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1913

Howarp P. MacrarLANE, Citizens Bank Building,
Tampa, Florida, has a son in the junior class at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Junius W. Puttey is practicing law at Courtland,
Virginia, where he has been since shortly after his grad-
uation. He has been Mayor of Courtland, ‘Trustee of
Schools, District Deputy Grand Master of Masons,
delegate to the Philadelphia National Democratic Con-
vention in 1936. In 1934 Mr. Pulley was appointed Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for Southampton County, which
has a population of about 27,000, and
was elected by a fine majority. He was
married in 1917 and has five children,
three boys and two girls.

1914

Houston BARCLAY is a representa-
tive of the Equitable Life Assurance So-
ciety of the United States, with offices in
the First National Bank Building, Wich-
ita, Kansas. He is married and has four
children.

Stuart Moore is treasurer of the
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc. Says he has passed up
membership in the law class of 1921 and his graduating
class of 1915 to settle down with his enterinng class of
1914, as these latter are the boys with whom he hid out
from the Vigilance Committee and took most of his col-
lege life. He is practicing law in Lexington.

“pwarp M. Craic, Jr., has been assistant engineer
with the New York City Board of Water Supply for the
past ten years.

Francis P. MiLiteér has a country place called
“Pickens Hill,” at Fairfax, Virginia. He is a member of
the Legislature of Virginia.

Artuur W. McCain lives at 17 Rectory Lane,
Scarsdale, New York. He is a vice-president of the
Chase National Bank.

1915

Joun D. WortHincron is owner and editor of The
Aegis newspaper of Bel Air, Maryland, and in addition
to this operates a 150-acre dairy farm on the edge of
Bel Air. He and his three sons are very much interested
in a herd of sixty purebred Guernsey cows, and during
the show season manage to stand at the top of the line

 

often. Recently celebrated his eighteenth wedding an-
niversary.

Mapison P. Cog is still living at 1735 New Hamp-
shire Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. Spends a great
deal of his spare time on the tennis courts and gets lot
of pleasure out of it. He has a nephew at Washington
and Lee.

1916

Bos Curtis is treasurer of the Times-World Cor-
poration, publishers of The Roanoke Times and The
Roanoke World-News, Roanoke, Va.

ByrumM P. Goap is practicing law in
Hillsdale, Virginia.

Russe_t S. Ruopes is general man-
ager of the Tulsa Chamber of Com-
merce, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

H. J. Kiser is practicing law in Wise,
Virginia, with offices in the First Na-
tional Bank Building. He has two sons
now in the University.

PARKER BUHRMAN is in the For-
eign Service of the United States, Sydney, Nova Scotia.

1917

G. RayMoND WoMELDoREP, missionary of the South-
ern Presbyterian Church, Hawainfu, Kiangsu, China, is
on furlough this year and has been spending part of this
time at his old home in Lexington.

ApriaAn Boyp lives in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He is
department state chairman of the American Legion.

D. W. ‘THorNBERG has been following highway en-
gineering work since returning from the Army in 1917.
Since 1936 he has been with the Santa Fe National For-
est on staff duty in the supervisors’ office in charge of
C.C.C. activities and general construction work.

Homer A. JONEs is vice-president and cashier of the
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Virginia-
Tennessee. Homer A., Jr., is in his second year at Wash-
ington and Lee.

M. B. RipENouR is news editor of The Globe, Hag-
erstown, Maryland.

Emory P. Barrow, attorney-at-law, Lawrenceville,
Virginia, sympathizes with his class agent and says that

[19]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

he has an even harder job as, in his absence, he was
elected president of the Randolph-Macon Alumni Asso-
ciation (where he graduated before entering the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School). Has represented his county
in the General Assembly for the past three terms.

HERBERT PETERS is a member of the law firm of
Peters, Lavinder, Peters and Rouse, Bristol, Virginia.

1918
S. E. Moreton lives at 721 S. Church Street, Brook-
haven, Mississippi. He has three children, 12, 10 and 4.

I. ‘THURMAN Boyp is practicing law in the Boyd
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Homer A. Ho vt, familiarly known as “Rocky,” is
Governor of the State of West Virginia.

ALEX S$. WATKINS is in the retail and wholesale
building materials business at Henderson, N. C.

J. Howe, after seventeen years teaching chemistry in
China, is back in the United States and with the Arthur
H. Thomas Company of Philadelphia. He married Mary
West of Lexington and they have a son and a daughter.

1919
S. M. Evans lives in Shreveport, Louisiana. His ad-
dress is 510 Atkins Avenue. He has been married twelve
years and has a son eight years old. Is in the oil produc-
ing business.

J. R. FAN is with the Morris Plan Bank, Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, where he has been for ten years.
He has a wife and a son, Jimmy, Jr., 10, and Lucy, 7.

1920

Joun Drye, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Larkin, Rahbone and Perry, 70 Broadway, New York.

Syp Wuire writes from Waynesboro, Virginia, that
he is still in the mercantile business and in spite of de-
pressions and recessions, is a lap or so ahead of his credi-
tors. In 1926 he married Olive Wall of Milledgeville,
Georgia.

Jacos Homer Hatran, who was born in Rockbridge
County, is now living at 326 Fudge Street, Covington,
Virginia. In 1922 he married Miss Ruth E. Wiant of
Charlottesville, and they have four children. After serv-
ing in the Field Artillery in France, he attended the Uni-
versity of Virginia law school for one session.

CHarLtes H. McCain was recently elected vice-

president of Wm. Hengerer Company of Buffalo, New
York. Mac has wandered far from his native town of
Jonesboro, Arkansas, and has done fine. He says that
he has not become too old to plan to attend Finals in
lexington some June—we hope he makes it soon.

About twelve miles from New York City, at 1043
Union Avenue, Hillside, New Jersey, lives Joseph
Mersch who came to Washington and Lee from Peru,
Illinois.

R. Hence Younc writes from 1207 Court Street,
Port Huron, Michigan.

J. B. Atkins, having been brought up in the manu-
facturing phase of the oil industry, has made it his
continuous business endeavor, in Shreveport, Louisiana,
operating in East Texas and North Louisiana. He mar-
ried Katherine Adger and they have three children, John,
age thirteen; Caroline, age eleven; and Bill, age four.

Horré STARK is practicing law in Lawrenceville, Ga.,
has a wife and two boys.

1921

R. C. Woop is practicing law in Lynchburg, Virginia.

MALLory C. JONEs is a captain in the Dental Corps
of the Regular Army at Fort Amador, Canal Zone-
Station Hospital. He is married and has three children,
a boy 13, a girl 10, and a boy 4. This is his second tour
of duty in Panama.

GAYLE G. ARMSTRONG is a member of the firm of
Armstrong and Armstrong, General Contractors, Ros-
well, New Mexico.

Bit, Rusuton has been engaged in the ice and cold
storage business in Birmingham, Alabama, since the date
of his graduation. He is also president of the Protective
Life Insurance Company.

ELMER STUCK is an architect in Jonesboro, Arkansas.
In addition to this he is carrying on the brick manufac-
turing business established many years ago by his father,
who died in October of last year. He and his family
moved into a new home about a year ago.

1922
A. J. LUBLINER is practicing law in Bluefield, West
Virginia, with offices in the Law and Commerce Building.
JENNINGS Rice lives at 52 St. Mark’s Place, St.

George, 5. 1., New York. He has been writing for a
number of years, but published his first novel, “The Man

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Who Insulted Somerville,” in April of this year. It has
been quite successful and was recently published in Eng-
land under the title ‘““The Somers Inheritance.”

Rosert M.(Cussy) BEar is teaching Psychology in
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire.

Dr. H. T. GaRard is practicing his profession as an
eye, ear, nose and throat specialist in Lewisburg, Penn-
sylvania.

1923

RANDOLPH DILLON is vice-president and treasurer of
the American Scale Manufacturing Company, of Wash-
ington, D. C. Has traveled in every state

Nashville, Tennessee. His home address is 1913 Belmont
Circle.

A. H. PuItutps, Jr., is in the advertising business,
in Orlando, Florida.

“JOHNNIE” LOVELACE is Commonwealth’s Attorney
for Suffolk, Virginia, where he has been since July 2,
1926. In November, 1929, he married Madeline Barrett
of Suffolk and they have a daughter five years old.

Stuart A. McCorkte is director of the Bureau of
Municipal Research, University of Texas, Austin, Texas.

P. D. GwactNney, III, is secretary-treasurer of P. D.
Gwaltney, Jr., and Company, Inc., Gen-

in the Union building up sales. =. “+S uine Smithfield Hams, Smithfield, Va.
or _-
, , ar
Tep Harris is engaged in radio, writ- a. ei i 1925
ing, and producing. He commutes be- és we aes ai Ree
tween a job as manager of the radio sta-  "Y ).* PAT pseersgars sip Oh eee 1 with the

See

   

tion in his home town, Greenville, South *.
Carolina, and New York. Says he has

nn es
Se ‘
ny of 1 Oo / A
4 * ai} 4 ’
en Bee ys SY
° 7s) 4 Ve “ + a . fF ‘ <°
gs |S = Sa
4 v ~ wee
aed ° ’ i> +} ‘ .
\ A ‘ ‘ef -*
2 . , * her ! af $
ih SS a. >. .2 ;
a oe
= : DI =
rn .
(
; 5 =

~' Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
140 Broadway, New York, New York.

   

had several interviews with William “* : GEORGE S$. WILSON, JR., is a member
Moseley Brown, who is now personnel eo a ee = ws 5 of the law firm of Wilson and Wilson,
director for Vick’s Chemical Company. “~~~ a =" Owensboro, Kentucky. Recently made a
WMA EI — <i} < ; ke”

ee Seaside taxes: trip to Florida where he saw many

we. as 5 = se - S 7. - . rn

1924 et Sez tex Washington and Lee alumni.

=>

J. W. FircHetr is a practicing attor-
ney at Huntington, West Virginia, with offices in the
West Virginia Building.

J. HAMPTON PRICE is a member of the North Caro-
lina State Senate.

WALTER H. Scorr is practicing law at 100 Campbell
Avenue, S. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

CHARLES A. COHEN is counsellor at law, 270 Broad-
way, New York, New York.

CHARLIE Puittips—Charles H. Phillips and Com-
pany, Inc., Real Estate, Builders, Insurance, Mayo
Building, Seventh and Main Streets, Richmond, Va.

Oris Howe is still with the Wabash Lumber Com-
pany, Hardwood Lumber, Wabash, Arkansas.

GEORGE MERCKE is vice-president and general man-
ager of the Jefferson Wood Working Company, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

W. P. (Bitty) KirKMAN is with Eisele and Com-
pany, Manufacturers of Clinical Thermometers, Etc.,

Ep ALLEN is with the Model Laundry
Towel Supply, 307 Twenty-Fifth Street, Richmond, Va.

Rospert E. Brown has just rounded out nine years
as pastor of the Bethlehem Baptist Church, Dumbarton,
Virginia.

Ear S. Marrinc_y is Registrar of Washington and
Lee University.

1926

CHARLES W. Lowry is Professor of Theology in the
Virginia Episcopal Seminary, Alexandria, Virginia. In
August, 1927, he was a delegate to the World Confer-
ence on Faith and Order in Edinburgh, Scotland.

1927

GEORGE DENHAM Conrap is practicing law, South
Main Street, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

RuHEA WuitTNEy has given up his “G Man’’ activi-
ties and has settled down to domestic life and the prac-
tice of law with offices in the Southern Building, Wash-
ington, D.C.

CHARLIE CROCKETT, JR., is field supervisor, Group
and Pension Divisions, Eastern Department of the Aetna

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Life Insurance Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
His offices are in the Widener Building.

H. D. Voorwess’ address is 1411 Walker Street,
Houston, Texas.

Britt Popr’s address is P. O. Box 1575, Richmond Va.

1928

OLDHAM CLARKE was assistant district attorney in
Kentucky, but resigned this position to form a law part-
nership with Judge LaFon Allen of Louisville. His ad-
dress is Kentucky Home Life Building, Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He has a son, seven, and a daughter about a
year old.

GrorcE DrEPass has been practicing law in Spartan-
burg, South Carolina, for the past three years in the of-
fice with his father and brother.

GrorGE HarsH is a member of the law firm of
Harsh, Harsh and Harsh, Commerce Title Building,
Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

Ep MILLER is practicing law in St. Louis, Missouri,
under the firm name of E. T. and E. H. Miller, Boat-
mans Bank Building.

1929

PuHiIt BECKER is a member of the law firm of James
and Coolidge, Dayton, Ohio, with offices in the Callahan
Building.

Jorge Lockett, JR., is a member of the law firm of
Andrews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell, Gulf Building,
Houston, Texas. He says: “Of secondary importance to
you but of primary importance to me, is the new light
which has come into my life, which illumination fixture
was installed in the Episcopal Church at Eagle Pass on
December 11, 1937. Her name, before our marriage, was
Susan Sanford.”

J. L. RULE is with the Farmers and Merchants Na-
tional Bank, Hobart, Oklahoma.

1930

Watt EwELt is practicing law in his home town of
Dyersburg, Tennessee. He is married and has a small
son and has recently built a home.

BEN RAWLINS, class agent for 1930-L,, has recently
become a member of the Law Department of the United
States Steel Corporation of Delaware. His business ad-
dress is 436 Seventh Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Rosert W. Mos ey is in the wholesale grocery busi-
ness in Conway, Arkansas.

ALBERT STEVES, III, is married and has a son, Albert
Steves, IV. He is in the building construction business
in San Antonio, Texas, and expects to send his son to
Washington and Lee in about fifteen years.

DupLtEyY W. DENTON was married recently and is
connected with the Arkansas-Missouri Power Corpora-
tion; he is located at Blytheville, Arkansas.

PALMER Brown has been married about a year and
is in the bagging and tie business in Memphis, being as-
sociated with L. P. Brown Company, Inc.

JAMES BERNARD MeErRICK is living at Crumpton,
Maryland.

Mossy G. PERROow, JR., is practicing law in Lynch-
burg, Virginia, being the senior member of the firm of
Perrow and Rosenberger.

Rospert E. Ciapp, JR., is practicing law at Frederick,
Maryland, having studied law at Harvard after he left
Washington and Lee. He has his own office there.

W. VAN GIcseErt is still practicing law at Athens,
Alabama.

1931

ALEX VANCE has served one year as intern at New-
ton, Massachusetts Hospital, one year as Pathological
intern at the Massachusetts General Hospital and is
ending the first year of a two-year appointment as resi-
dent on X-Ray at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

Bos Martin is still practicing law in Greenville,
South Carolina. He has three daughters.

JIMMIE RIMLER is married and doing public ac-
counting work, associated with S. D. Leidesdorf and
Company, 125 Park Avenue, New York.

JoHN Hansrorp Tuomas, Jr., has been practicing
medicine for three years in his home town of Greenville,
Virginia.

Bitt TALLYN is in the law offices of Cox and Wal-
burg, Military Park Building, Newark, New Jersey.

CHAN Gorpon is still selling coal for the Carbon
Fuel Sales Company. His address is Box 226, East
Lansing, Michigan.

Birt VENABLE has discontinued the practice of law
and for the past two years has been in the fertilizer busi-

[22]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ness. He is with the Smith-Douglas Company, Inc., Nor-
folk, Virginia.

James D. Sparks is practicing law in Monroe, L,ou-
isiana. Has gone in for Little Theatre dramatics.

Henry MACKENZIE Is assistant title officer of the
Lawyers ‘Title Insurance Corporation of Richmond, Va.

LAWRENCE J. Roose is going through a long series
of internships preparatory to later specializing in psy-
chiatry. His address is Pamona, New York.

Herp Dotvauire, still with the Po-

cono Manor Inn at Pocono Manor, Penn-
sylvania, gets the plum for sending the

most news, all of which is interesting and a
the parts relative to 1932ers follow: Jack Sa

. . . . 4 ~
Clothier is still managing the Forest SEN

Tavern at Natural Bridge and doing his-
torical research at Staunton; Jim Free-
man is practicing medicine at Fernan-
dina, Florida, and Sollace is in the insur- ,! aN KS
ance business in Gainesville, Florida; “@lz
Paul Wofford is assistant manager of the
Cherokee Flooring Corporation at Bur-
lington, North Carolina; Billy Knopf is
with Standard Brands, Inc., lives at 8922 West Boule-
vard, Roebuck ‘Terrace in Birmingham, Alabama; Harry
Williams is with Swift and Company at Columbus,
Georgia; Thomas Doughty is with the brokers Abbott,
Proctor and Paine at 507 Raleigh Street, Bluefield, West
Virginia.

TK

FRANK Brapy’s address is 395 Warwick Street,

Brooklyn, New York.

R. EK. Morrison is
Hotel, Laredo, ‘Texas.

manager of The New Plaza
Grorck Morse is resident surgeon at the Duval
County Hospital, 700 West Tenth Street, Jacksonville,
Florida.
J. C. Harris is still selling groceries with the Scotts-
Alabama, Wholesale Company, of which firm he
is secretary-treasurer.

boro,

C. P. Les is still teaching at Southwestern Univer-
sity, Memphis, ‘Tennessee. He spent last summer in Eu-
rope and will spend this one in British Honduras and
Guatemala, viewing the Mayan ruins.

Britt MUuLticAN is still with Winston Strawn and
Shaw, Chicago, practicing law. His firm is in the First
National Bank Building, Chicago.

  
 

GrorcE H. S'rrouse has been practicing law in Nor-
wich, Connecticut, for the past four years. He is mar-
ried.

RucKER RyLAND is purchasing agent for the Stan-
dard Paper Manufacturing Company, Richmond, Va.

Topp DEVAN is on surgery service in the
rating internship” in The Lankenau Hospital,

“two years
Girard

and Corinthian Avenues, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
‘Took a vacation with Brother Ruge at Miami Beach last
Le spring and boasts that they landed a sail
i fish, fifty-pound King fish, and a great
ce. sun-tan.
ie
AEF ~ SHELBY BLATTERMAN has been in

aN May’s Lick, Kentucky, since 1932, farm-
AS ~ing—tobacco, corn, wheat, hops, sheep
Fa <a and cattle. Prefers livestock and is es-
Wy)\ pecially interested in Poland-China hogs
and purebred Aberdeen-Angus cattle.

7a PEEL RIvERs is a special agent for the

Equitable Life Assurance Society, Louis-
=. ville, Kentucky. Was swimming all win-
ter indoors and won the 220-yard free
style i in the Kentucky Indoor Championship.

Bit AND AL SyMonps live at 1040 Judson Avenue,
‘vanston, Illinois.

J. B. Wuarton is practicing medicine in his home
town, Eldorado, Arkansas. His offices are in the Medical
Arts Building.

CroMWELL ‘THOMAS is teaching in the Severna School
at Severna, Maryland. He was married in June.

1934

GrorRGE A. PRUNER is practicing law in his home
town, Lebanon, Virginia.

Tom BoLaANnp is a chemist with DuPont and Com-
pany. His address is 1556 Jackson Street, Charleston,
West Virginia.

F. O. FUNKHOUSER is secretary-manager of the Har-
risonburg Loan and Thrift Corporation, National Bank
Building, Harrisonburg, Virginia. He was married two
years ago.

1935

L.. P. (Ike) GassmMAN is working in his father’s
business, The Arcade Manufacturing Company, Foun-

[23]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

dry Moulding Machinery and Equipment, and Toys,
Freeport, Llinois.

GILBERT C. (RED) McKowun is practicing law in
Martinsburg, West Virginia, with offices in the Kilmer
Building.

J. R. Switzer, Jr., has recently opened offices for
the practice of dentistry in Harrisonburg, Virginia, in
The Daily News Building.

W. R. SpuHar, JR., is in his family’s business, Spahr
and Company, distributors for Sphar and Gay Seed
Company, Winchester, Kentucky.

RocEr Myers, Jr., has finished his second year in
medical school. His address is 808 Park Avenue, Balti-
more, Maryland.

GrorcE W. Harrison is special agent for the Equi-
table Life Assurance Society of the United States in
Henderson, North Carolina. He has been married about
two years.

1937
Puit WEINSIER is at 270 Corbin Place, Manhattan
Beach, New York.

Morton Brown was studying history in the Grad-
uate School at Harvard when his letter was written last
spring.

H. E. CLuxton, Jr., completed his first year in medi-
cine at Johns-Hopkins in June. His home is 1108 South
Main Street, Columbia, Tennessee.

Jimmié ButLer is connected with the Memphis,
‘Tennessee, offices of the Anderson, Clayton Cotton Com-
pany, which reputedly is the largest cotton company in
the world.

Wa ter G. LEHR says that he was lucky enough to
get a position in one of the largest mortage loan and in-
surance firms in the city of San Antonio, Texas. His ad-
dress is 119 Paseo Encinal, San Antonio, Texas.

 

Birth
WitvtiAM H. H. Wer’z, class of 1933, is the father of
a daughter, Martie, born February 12. Wertz is an attor-
ney in Wooster, Ohio, with offices at 127 East Liberty
Street.

Marriages

Joun W. Greene, LL.B. 1924, and Miss Senta von
Schrenk of Short Hills, New Jersey, March 22, 1939.
Mrs. Greene is a musician, who has appeared on the con-
cert stage in Vienna and Berlin.

EpwArb BALLou Bacpy, class of 1929, and Miss Flor-
ence Anne Bailey; Danville, Virginia, March 25, 1939.

WALTER Epwarp HorrMan, LL.B. 1931, and Miss
Evelyn Virginia Watkins ; Norfolk, Va., April 6, 1939.

ALBERT CONNOR JoNEs, Jr., B.S. 1931, and Ethel
Marvin Thorell; Kingstree, S. C., February 27, 1939.

CLAUDE PorTERFIELD Licut, A.B. 1906 and LL.B.
1911, and Miss Helen McGregor Wilson; New York City,
March 25, 1939.

JAMEs RANboLPH RurH, class of 1937, and Miss Liza
Jester Halbert ; Corsicana, ‘Texas, April 10, 1939.

 

The Meaning of Class Reunions

(Continued from page 3)

“picture” of alumni distribution for this institution shows
small numbers living in many different places.
+: ie

Opportunities for personal contact are particularly
few. The importance of the class reunion becomes, it
seems to me, correspondingly great. | venture to congratu-
late the alumni officials upon the notable development al-
ready made in encouraging alumni to return, at home-
coming, at finals, and at other informal occasions. We em-
phatically hope to make the class-reunion an occasion of
immense significance in the annual program of Washing-

ton and Lee. 2 i B
FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES,

President

 

Dr. SAMUEL COLVILLE LIND, dean of the Institute of
Technology, University of Minnesota, was elected presi-
dent of the American Chemical Society for 1940. Dr. Lind
is an authority on radio-activity and photo-chemistry, and
has been associated with the United States Bureau of
Mines for twenty-five years. He is a member of the class
of 1899,

 

Stuart A. MAcCork-e, B.A. 1924, is Assistant Pro-
fessor of Government at the University of Texas and Di-
rector of the Bureau of Municipal Research. He has pub-
lished a new volume on ‘Police and Allied Powers of
Municipalities in Texas.”

[2+]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Study Schedules

SopHomores at Washington and I,ee University this
month began to prepare their schedule of studies for the
junior and senior years, working in cooperation with their
“major” professors under a recently-formulated educa-
tional guidance plan.

Hach Washington and Lee student is required to pre-
pare this two-year study schedule before the end of his
sophomore year ; the schedule of courses he selects is then
used as a basis for his spring registration and filed for
further reference as the student's work develops, or for
modification if his aims and purposes change.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of Washington and Lee,
pointed out that under the faculty adviser system in use
at the University, the advisers for freshmen continue in
contact with their advisees through the sophomore year.
“The departments in which students elect to pursue their
major studies will provide educational guidance in the
junior and senior years,” he said.

Dr. Tucker also pointed out that the need for educa-
tional guidance and planning has arisen because of the
“widening of knowledge” which led to curricula changes,
and because of the increase in college enrollments.

A “study plan sheet” is provided the sophomores ; on
it they list in detail their course of study and indicate the
line of work they propose to enter after graduation,

. .
Nominated for Judgeship

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT has nominated Harry J. Lem-
ley, of Arkansas, to the new federal district judgeship for
the eastern and western districts of Arkansas.

Lemley has long been active in Hope, Arkansas, busi-
ness and social life and is an enthusiastic archaeologist.
He is 55 years old. A native of Virginia, he was admitted
to the bar in 1912 and has practiced law in Hope since.

Lemley was born in Upperville, Fauquier County,
Virginia, August 6, 1883, the son of the late J. H. Lemley
and Mary Kendall Lemley.

He attended school at Randolph-Macon Academy,
Front Royal, Virginia, and Washington and lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia, receiving his law degree in 1910.

CLIFTON H. McMILLAN, Jr., class of 1931, has been
see Candy Company, the
Alumni Office is advised in a newspaper clipping sent

elected president of the Busy
from Boston. He formerly was in the research department
of the D’Arcy Advertising Company, and has been a
member of the board of directors of the candy company

since 1936.

A YELLOWED CLIPPING telling the story of one of base-
ball’s greatest shutout victories—scored by a Washington
and lee team!—came to the Alumni Office this month,
sent in by Matthew Page Andrews. The clipping, from a
New York newspaper of more than two decades ago, tells
of a 40-0 triumph of the Generals over William and Mary,
back on April 24, 1902. The Blue and White team, accord-
ing to the story, scored in every inning and made more
than a track meet of the game. The article also points out
that another 40-0 victory in baseball was chalked up in
1889 by New Haven against Waterbury. Know of any
other big baseball scores ?

 

THE LAW FIRM partnership of George ‘I’. Clark, LL.B.
1925, and ‘Thomas Jean Ellis, A.B. 1923, was dissolved
recently in Miami when Ellis left to join the staff of Ilor-
ida’s Attorney General George Couper Gibbs, LL.B. 1903.
Clark, the senior member of the firm, continued in pri-
vate practice in Miami.

 

MauMeEtrT W. MAcCorKk_e, Jr., class of 1926, is as-
sistant sales manager of the Wheeling, West Virginia,
district of Air Reduction Sales Company.

 

 

McCRUMS
y
Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY

In Lexington and Vicinity
y
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
y

Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
v

Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

         
 

Ce. 7
Ve ale
ae 4
"Fr
geT Tes
—«

THE SECRET of Chesterfield’s
milder better taste...the reason
why they give you more smok-
ing pleasure... is the right
combination of the world’s best

2

 

. a
y

 

cigarette tobaccos rolled in pure
cigarette paper... the blend ()
that can’t be copied. ()

THEY SATISFY

Copyright 1939, LiGGeTr & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

 

