No. 5

$2.50 a ye:
—£a$ §

 

a

, *

af

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr D\
Re OS uh oe
ren we Nip
s SI ea = : at ral fs
aa can QY ay . - SE eT SATS
Ee "he - = Ws a _ ; c . : ie oe
ky — ~f =a ‘" \ ie Ph : ps E wf 4
| ONIN —I BBE EE AN) \¢ /
WANS ee 9 8 8 0 8 Sere

Le a

wv

—
=

 

’ = = ' : ea
" ad Q FEAA a = = i } Fs rs
= — =  —— — |
—S————SSSSSSSS SN
en tae :
See WS — we

 

 

“A Friend of Yours
Wants to Hear From You”
Those friends who have replied
form the basis of a report which is
detailed on the inside back cover
of this number of the magazine.
Please look there for your class and see
just where you stand.
If you are one of those who have not
replied, please feel now that obligation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Hagan Minnick, 318 Park Street,
Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Bldg.
Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank
Building.
Charleston, West Virginia
C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton
Place.
Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building,
Hagerstown, Maryland.
Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.
Detroit Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg.,
Tampa, Fla.
Fort Worth, Texas
EK. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson
Bldg., Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building,
Miami, Fla.

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Greenleaf and Cros-
by Building.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. §. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank
Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
Arthur Tabb, 2411 Randall Avenue

Memphis, Tennessee
Maynard W. Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.
New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.
Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank
Building.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title
Zuilding.
Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania ed
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club Maske
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Roanoke, Virginia
Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City
Bank Building
Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life
Building.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and
Door Company.
St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Bldg.
Tri-State Association
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building,
Huntington, West Virginia
Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern
Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni,, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Vol. IX MAY, 1934 No. 5

 

 

 

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pregmmgmee |. «06... WALTER A. McDonacp, 1910
Vice-President...JoHN RANDoLPH TucKER, 1902
Secretary............ Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
1 TOG CRESS Stuart Moore, 1915

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Dozier A. DEVANE, 1908
Epwarp W. L&E, 1913
Dr. Joun WittiAm Craupy, 1909
HERBERT GRANT JAHNCKE, 1930

 

Contents for May 1934

PAGE
Rem TOS CLI EGE Acco n Sc ss os 06k sc Secdes csccucnpecs sacectadiebontese. 3
Gmmweming Dastee AaQOUS..,...70.-,.0:..i0cconstacscseeccovcucassagitie sesso +
Washington and Lee Men in Who’s Who.....................000..0006-. 7
Grae Daost SuCGeettl WONT If Spores... ko cisicscccaccoesvcce-seeoes 10
MAP MMLC GUNOIVOEEN SS oo... cuci.......-<sclecsectsivcteccsscaontostaas 12
The Passing of Dr. Henry D. Campbell...........0.00000000000..... 14
William McChesney Martin, Trustee...... org we eee ae
amen: P TOO TANI asa... >. s sicncakacacs vena eaees «coo 17
emmmemecitor Haste tO S505... 6.56. aiac.ccckass,.--<s-secebuccceie. sso 19
MES TN OUCS. ... AANA hcp. cscs va aavaqe vac dsncacaattsecvs. > ssc Umebeiirts ood 23
Se CETIOT IAIN. ; | MUNIN acs co ce Reta y bo se Sy wk ws sakes so 3]
Report of Class Campaign to Date.......000000000000000.... Third Cover

cs. J

 

E es ee a

I

me ee: oe a

I

The President's Page

F THIS page may be converted from editorial em-

phasis to social sheet, I report to my friends in

the University family a lovely vacation that
makes February memorable.

Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair, Mrs. Gaines and I sailed
from New York on a cruise of the Gulf and a visit to
Mexico City. There was almost a week of floating on
the blue serenity of tropic waters, with a full moon
adding glory to entirely balmy breezes; there was a
brief interlude at Havana, where the scars of bombs
were on many buildings and the dramatic tenseness of
revolution in the air; then an early morning found us
at Vera Cruz, staring upon the white loftiness of
Orizaba, sixty miles away.

Boosters for Mexico City claim for it the world’s
ideal weather, and the four of us are in no position to
dispute the claim. Such American papers as we could
lay hands on were shivering with the dreadful chron-
icles of happenings far south of the zero mark, but
our Mexican days were faultless in this respect. The
latitude of this section of Mexico is balanced by its
elevation, and the result leaves little to be desired in
the way of temperature.

The train that leaves Vera Cruz scampers through
the coastal plain for several hours and then begins
its climb to reach the central plateau of that country,
an ascent of nearly 8,000 feet. The views are extra-
ordinary. Probably no other train gives passengers
such an airplane sensation. ‘The scenery is gorgeous
throughout the entire trip, whether it be the snowcap-
ped cone of Popocatapetl or the flower-lined canals of
Xochimileo. ‘The general landscape is a kind of semi-
desert, opening in long stretches of flatness framed
always by picturesque mountains; and the play of light
and shadow offers some spectacles that flash into beauty
like John’s visions on Patmos.

Mexico presents a pageant of foreignness almost
surprising at this date in civilization. The inhabitants,
chiefly descendants of Indian tribes, maintain modes of
life that have marked countless generations, essenti-
ally a primitive life, given richness only by the magnifi-
cence of religious shrine or temple. The people live
in aboriginal poverty, yet one could see few marks of
misery. The typical Mexican is patient and kind
and easily made content.

American students wandering in Mexico find food
for imagination in the sense of immense antiquity,

visualized everywhere. The great cathedral in the city

[ 3

is built upon the site of an Aztec
temple. The presidential palace at
Chapultepec—euphonious word that
actually means “the hill of grass-
hoppers’—is an enlargement of
the ancient home of Aztec royalty.
About fifty miles from Mexico City
is Teotihuacan, holy city of the Az-
tecs, buried with the debris of cen-
turies but now being uncovered.
Here are the great temple to the
god of the winds, the pyramid to the
sun—larger in scope than Cheops—, the smaller pyra-
mid to the moon, and other remains of bewildering
masterpieces of construction.

 

To the ladies in the party, Mexico is the shopper's
paradise. Most of the goods offered are hand-made,
exquisite examples of a craft perfected through the
centuries. When we add that prices are cheap, that
the American dollar is good for nearly four of the
Mexican, that custom officials, so far as we knew them,
are sympathetic, we find a situation that cries out to
the bargaining instinct deep-planted in every woman’s
heart. The Rector of the Board contented himself by
purchasing a Mexican doll which he presented to the
president with appropriate remarks.

We carried the sense of Washington and Lee with
us and we found pleasant confirmations of our inter-
est. In the American embassy sits our honorary
alumnus, Josephus Daniels, who entertained our party
generously. One of the happiest days was spent in
the beautiful home of Dr. and Mrs. Sidney Ulfelder,
parents of a member of the present student-body.

Throughout we recalled that we were following the
trail of General Lee on his only significant venture out
of this country.- We visited spots associated with his
name, the monastery at Cherubusco and the battlefield
at Chapultepec. In a Mexican museum we saw an
old print of the surrender of Mexico, and the figure
behind General Scott, who received the sword of the
vanquished, was unmistakably Lee.

It was a delightful sensation to follow his steps
in a strange land but it was even better to get back to
the University he loved with the mighty affection of
his heart.

-< en i

fe ae

I

M A  G- A 2: 1.3

 

Salvaging Damaged Goods

By Ropert Tayior, Jr., 1926, of the staff, The Pittsburgh Press

UST OVER the crest of Snowshoe mountain, in a

valley girt by the mountains of central Penn-

sylvania, you can see Rockview—/,000 broad

acres and an idea.

You might be puzzled when you walk through the
farms.
and fields, many of them

Men are at work, in canneries, shops, barns

without guards and all of
them doing a good day’s
work.

Each of the 900 in-
mates is there for a major
All of them
on their honor.

crime. are
There is
the
them,

wall around cell
that

and some of them live in

no
blocks house
farm buildings apart from
the It’s
the most wide-open prison

prison proper.
in all the world.
What kind of prison
is this? A
prison, an institution that

reclamation

will educate and employ
the men society has ban-
ished, that will eliminate
that
prisons en-

the terrible idleness
conventional!
force and redeem the con-
vict sufficiently that when
his term is up, he is able
to take the responsibility
of si ciety.
You'll
the
when

learn more
reclamation

you talk to
the superintendent
Rockview and the custodian of the idea of Rockview.
One of the first things you'll notice about the super-

about
work

of

intendent’s office is a neatly lettered sign on the wall:

‘Be Pitiful, for every man is fighting a hard battle.”

You are at once impressed with the fact that the
man behind the desk, the superintendent, is no senti-
mental social worker. He is a young-looking, husky
individual, with an intelligent outlook on life, a sym-
pathetic attitude and.a decisive manner. He once punch-
ed cattle in Wyoming.

 

[4 ]

“T view my fellow man with hope,” he says, ‘in
spite of the fact that I have been disappointed more
seven times, and will continue
to be. My feeling is that in an institution of this
sort, if my confidence is justified once out of one
hundred times, it is worth while.”

Don’t get the idea
that the superintendent is
A few men each
year “escape” from Rock-

than seventy times

soft.

view, into the uninhabited
mountains, and are quick-
ly brought back. They
are the ones who violate
their honor. Of the others,
75 per cent who have won
parole are making good.

The administrative
and operating control of
the model prison are in
the hands of John Wil-
liam Claudy, A.B., A.M.,
D.D.,
ington and Lee University,
class of 1909, and a firm

graduate of Wash-

advocate of the idea that
it’s worth while to give
the other fellow a help-
ing hand.

Bill Claudy is part of
Rockview, just as surely
as the stones of its fire-
proof cell blocks and the
soil of its farms. He has
been working toward it all
his life, through one job
the

main function was to
He knows the Honor System as Wash-
ington and lee men know it.

Here, in the toughest job of helping the toughest
men, in the vanguard of those who feel that there 1s
still something worth reclaiming, even among the out-
casts, ‘is where I belong,’ Bill Claudy says.

He was the Rev. Dr. Claudy, executive secretary
of the Pittsburgh Council of Churches, when Governor
Pinchot recommended him to the board of managers
That was in December, 1931.

or another where

help others.

for the Rockview job.

 

Sie hess

<

 

T 3 Sp wei «ON

I

mm” AOS SA 2. ee ee

 

Dr. Claudy had served for a number of years on
the parole board of Western Penitentiary—he was no
novice in penology. He had served in the pulpits of
several of the most influential churches of Pittsburgh,
and he had carried to the state legislature the plea of
the unemployed for adequate relief.

Bill is no native Pennsylvanian.
in fact, below the Mason-Dixon line, in
Md., educated in the public schools and at Deichman’s
preparatory school, now extinct. He arrived at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1905, spent four years in Lexington,
did graduate work at Princeton and entered the Prince-
ton ‘Theolog-
ical Seminary.

He was born,
Jaltimore,

It was at
this point that
the road led,
not to China,
but to Penn-
sylvania. Bill
Claudy had
planned to go
through the
Seminary and

then study
medicine to
qualify for
work in the
foreign  mis-
sions of the
Presby-

terian church as a medical missionary.

Instead, he went to Pittsburgh as assistant to
Dr. Maitland Alexander, then the most prominent
clergyman in the city, at the First Presbyterian
church. It was there that he acquired his wife, Ida
Mae Claudy, a singer of note and then the contralto
soloist at the church. They have been married now
for almost 20 years.

It was when young Rev. Claudy began to get his
roots into the soil of Pittsburgh, that young men of
the city began to select Washington and Lee as a de-
sirable site for the acquisition of an education. They
came to college singly, and in pairs.

Youths from Kentucky, North Carolina, Alabama
and Virginia used to meet these newcomers with the
same query: “Why did you come ‘way down here from
Pittsburgh ?”

The first members of the Pittsburgh contingent
could answer the question. ‘The reason was, of course,
Rev. J. W. Claudy, then pastor of the Watson Me-
morial Presbyterian church, on the Northside of Pitts-

burgh. Andrew Tod Roy, 1925, now a missionary in

 

Rockview Farm Prison

Johnny Leggate, 1915,
Pidge
Corfield, 1915, now a telephone company executive,

China, was a parishioner there.
now a business man in Pittsburgh, lived nearby.

lived in the same district.

There were others, too, who went to Washington
and lee because they had heard of it through others
attending as students, but who did not know Dr.
Claudy, with whom the idea started, which only dem-
onstrates how a good idea can grow.

He

never fails to visit Washington and Lee at least twice

The pastor has a “follow up system” too.

He sees the boys he sent there every time,
talks to them
when they
come home on

a year.

vacation and

is the main-
spring of the
alumni move-
ment in West-
Pennsylvania.

It might be
conclud-
that Bill
Claudy has a

ed

with

He
meets them on
equa 1 foot-
ing, whoever
they may be.
No college freshman is made to feel the weight of his

way
men.

doctor’s degree and the veriest yearling may address
him as “Bill”. He knows the problems of his student
friends and helps them meet them. More than one
young man has been guided to a career—it’s a little
difficult to choose these days—by his friendly and
shrewd advice.

The Church made use of these talents, and after
nine years at the Watson Memorial, installed him as
educational director of the Board of Christian Educa-
tion, where he set up a program to be followed in fu-
ture years.

Another field opened after two years, however,
and Dr. Claudy became executive secretary of the
Pittsburgh Council of Churches, served as moderator
of the Presbyterian churches of Pittsburgh and on
various church and civic committees.

There is little of the denominational in Dr. Claudy.
As Executive Secretary of the Council of Churches
he wore the cloth with ease. He was able to do so
because he does not pin his faith on any hard-and-fast

creed. His is the religion of the individual, based on

a. ae A a ae: a

I

MA GA 2 1 2

 

the thought that “everything we do or stand for is a
little bit of religion itself.”

Churchmen of other denominations used to “rib”
him good-naturedly about his lack of denomination-
alism, as when an Episcopal Bishop, in the presence of
a slightly shocked newspaper reporter, asked him:

“When are you coming over to a good church?”

Engineers have a saying “Do the best you can with
the tools you have.” ‘That might sum up Dr. Claudy’s
attitude, with the added proviso “and leave the rest to
Providence.”

The church or the job that Providence happens
to set him down in is the right place, for he has a
knack (or is that Providence, too?) of building things
out of the meager materials at hand.

As a pastor, he was a vital force in the community
on the side of development of its latent qualities. Even
at Rockview, where the human materials are admit-
tedly among the worst in the state, there are men who
will lead successful lives because of the influence of
another man, who knows—and cares about—men.

Every man who labors on the farm, among the
dairy herd, horses, cattles, pigs and chickens, among
the oats, corn, wheat and potatoes, in the cannery, ma-
chine shop, carpenter shop, electric shop, garage, re-
pair shop, paint shop, tin shop, blacksmith shop, laun-
dry, shoe shop, harness shop, tailor shop, print shop,
nursery or green house, can gather strength from the
knowledge that he has a powerful and resourceful ally
in his fight to “get back’.

There is a school, taught by college professors
from the nearby Pennsylvania State College, and of-
fering courses in farming, poultry raising, mechanical
drawing, dairying and even art. There is a new course
in citizenship, designed to implant the seeds of respon-
sibility and taught by a competent University professor.

Three hundred men who work every day devote
spare time to the special courses. All of the men get
common schooling up to the sixth grade and none is
released unless he has at least a fourth grade schooling.

Life at the Prison is not as bad as the reader
might suppose from surveys of other prisons. At
Rockview, although the men are not pampered—they
still know they are serving time—they are given a
chance to make good. ‘There is something in the air
that is sadly missing from the conventional “maximum
security” prisons, where men are idle and sullen.

The superintendent’s home is about a mile and a
half from the other institutional buildings, and Bill
Claudy finds time for saddle horses, dogs and, (in the
mountains of Pennsylvania), the raising of tropical
fish. ‘The young daughter of the Claudys is in school
at Penn State.

[ 6 ]

“T am more devoted to this job than any other
job that I have ever attempted to fill,” he will say. “It
seems more worth while. ‘There are lots of headaches
and disappointments, of course, but show me a place
where these things do not exist.”

And for a final word on life and death, this quo-
tation from Robert Louis Stevenson, a favorite author
of Bill Claudy, might suffice to present the portrait of
the man’s belief :

“Every heart that has beat strong and cheerfully
has left a hopeful impulse behind it in the world, and
bettered the tradition of mankind. And even if death
catch people, like an open pitfall, and in mid-career,
laying out vast projects, and planning monstrous
foundations, flushed with hope, and their mouths full
of boastful language, they should be at once tripped up
and silenced: is there not something brave and spirited
in such a termination? And does not life go down with
better grace, foaming in full body over a precipice, than
miserably straggling to an end in sandy deltas? When
the Greeks made their fine saying that those whom the
Gods love die young, I cannot help believing they had
this sort of death also in their eye. For surely, at
whatever age it overtakes the man, this is to die young.
Death has not suffered to take so much as an illusion
from his heart. In the hot-fit of life, a tiptoe on the
highest point of being, he passes at a bound on to the
other side. The noise of the mallet and chisel is
scarcely quenched, the trumpets are hardly done blow-
ing, when, trailing with him clouds of glory, this happy-
starred, full-blooded spirit shoots into the spiritual
land.”

Bill Claudy, however, is saving men from death,
and worse than death. His entire enterprise, all his
faith, his creed, the whole of his dedication and de-
votion are concerned, not with punishment but with
salvation.

He is a minister of souls who need him, who find
in him and in his methods and discipline, their only

escape into a better life—on this earth, here and now. | 4

 

ry
Vv

Dr. Henry M. Stow, assistant professor of geol-
ogy, has been cited by Dr. P. G. H. Boswell, professor
of geology in the Imperial College of Science and
Technology and the University of London, for his in-
vestigations of rock strata in Dr. Boswell’s recent
book, “On the Mineralogy of Sedimentary Rocks.”

Dr. Stow is mentioned for his studies of the rock-
type present in the drainage area of the James river
and his account of the authigenic tourmaline in the
Oriskany sandstone which appeared in 1932 American
Mineralogist.

 

1 a oar oe. 6

De ie a a eee

Washington and Lee Men in Who's Who

(V. 17, 1932-33)
(Compiled for Professor Barnes of the School of Commerce by S. T. MILvEr, 1936)

Index, and other newspapers of the state have
made much in the past few weeks of the part be-
ing played in Virginia governmental affairs by Wash-
ington and Lee men. And well they might. For it is no
common occurrence to have the Governor, Lieutenant
Governor, Attorney General, State Tax Commissioner,
Alcohol Beverage Control Board Chairman, State Mo-
tor Vehicle Commissioner, and a comparable number
of members of the State Senate and House of Dele-
gates claiming the same institution as Alma Mater, to
say nothing of three of the seven members of the State
Supreme Court, and a number of circuit and corpora-
tion court judges.

It is uncommon to find so great a number of Wash-
ington and Lee men serving their state in high places
at the same time. It is not uncommon, however, to find
Washington and IL,ee men, from whatever state, enter-
ing the public service—National, State, and Local. Even
a partial examination of Washington and Lee men and
their records would seem to justify the prophesy that
the final results of a systematic study will show a dis-
proportionate number of Washington and Lee men to
have entered some phase of the public service.

Se: Lynchburg News, The Petersburg Progress-

A systematic study of this nature is now being
prosecuted. From Who's Who, the several Alumni
Catalogues and Directories, the records of the Alumni
Office, the files of the ALUMNI MaGaziIne, Ring-tum
Phi, and The Southern Collegian public service data
is being gathered, compiled, and classified.

From time to time, as the study progresses, sum-
maries will be published in the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

When the Lexington sources have been exhaust-
ed, appeals for assistance in completing the records
will be made through this magazine.

And when the study has been completed, inter-
pretations will be possible which should prove of in-
terest not only to Washington and Lee men, but to
educators and friends of good government everywhere.

The following study represents a search of the
1932-33 volume of Who’s Who in America. It is pub-
lished without comment and analysis and without the
removal of our alumni who appeared in this volume
and since have died. It represents the contribution of a
hundred and seventy-one men of distinction to this na-
tional roster.

[7 ]

A further study will be made resulting in an an-
alysis and in conclusions. The present list is for what-
ever interest it may have to the readers of the maga-
zine for reference.

Allen, Robert H.; army officer, p. 170.

Anderson, Douglas Smith; electrical engineer, p. 179.
Anderson, Henry Watkins; lawyer, p. 180.
Andrews, Matthew Page; editor, author, p. 186.
Andrews, Walter Pemberton; retired lawyer, p. 187.
Arnold, Thomas Jackson; retired lawyer and author,

p. 198.

Baker, Newton Diehl; lawyer, ex-Secretary of War,

p. 228.
Barret, LeRoy Carr; orientalist, p. 251.
*Bell, Wilbur Cosby; clergyman, p. 284.
Birch, Alexander Clitherall; lawyer, p. 310.
*Blackwell, Robert Emory; college president, p. 319.
Borah, Wayne G.; judge, p. 347.
Breckinridge, Clifton Rhodes; diplomatist, p. 375.
Brown, Glenn; architect, p. 400.
Brown, William Moseley; university president, p. 407.
*Bruce, Philip Alexander; author, p. 412.
*Bryan, John Stewart; editor, publisher, p. 416.
Bryan, Nathan Philemon; judge, p. 417.
Buhrman, Parker Wilson; consul, p. 425.
Bullitt, James Bell; professor pathology, p. 426.
Burr, Borden; lawyer, p. 438.
Campbell, Henry Donald; professor, university dean,
historian, p. 467.
Campbell, Robert Fishburne; clergyman, p. 468.
Campbell, Robert Granville; professor _ political
science, p. 468.
Cantrell, Deaderick Harrell; lawyer, p. 472.
Chalkley, Lyman; lawyer, educator, p. 498.
Chenery, Christopher Tompkins; president Federal
Water Service Corporation, p. 512.
Chester, Samuel Hall; clergyman, p. 516.
*Cocke, William Horner ; educator, p. 550.
*Cohen, John Sanford; editor, p. 554.
Collins, Joseph Dorsey; surgeon, p. 566.
Coman, Edwin Truman; banker, p. 569.
Cooper, Robert Franklin; college president, p. 588,
p. 134.
Crow, Charles Langley; college professor, p. 626.
Currell, William Spenser; educator, p. 636.
Daingerfield, Foxhall Alexander; author, p. 645.

> A. 2 a Bie

*Daniels, Josephus; ex-Secretary of the Navy, p. 650. >
Darnall, William Edgar; surgeon and gynecologist,
p-. 653.
Davis, John William; lawyer, p. 665.
*Davis, Westmoreland; governor, p. 669.
Day, Edward Cason; lawyer, p. 673.
*Denny, Collins; bishop; p. 690.
*Denny, George H.; university president, p. 691.
Desha, Lucius Junius; professor of chemistry, p. 693.
Diehl, George West; college president, p. 703. D
Dillard, James Hardy; educator, p. 706.
*Eggleston, Joseph Dupuy; educator, p. 768.
Ellis, Wade H.; lawyer, p. 778.
‘Epes, Louis Spencer; judge, p. 789.
Farrar, Thomas James; college professor, p. 813.
Faulkner, Charles James, Jr.; lawyer, p. 815.
Fergusson, Harvey; writer, p. 823.
~Fishburne, John Wood; congressman, p. 836.
Fitzpatrick, Herbert ; lawyer, p. 845. .
Flannagan, John William, Jr.; congressman, p. 847.
*Freeman, Douglas Southall; editor, p. 882.
*Glasgow, Arthur Graham; engineer, p. 946. .
Glasgow, Samuel McPheeters; clergyman, p. 947.
~~ Glasgow, William Anderson, Jr.; lawyer, p. 947.
*Glass, Carter; U. S. Senator, p. 947.
Glass, Robert Camillus; journalist, p. 947.
Glenn, John Mark; lawyer, p. 949. ;
Goodykoontz, Wells; ex-congressman, p. 963. V
*Graham, Henry Tucker; clergyman, p. 972.
Graham, John Meredith; banker, p. 972.
Graham, Samuel Jordan; judge, p. 973.
*Gravatt, William Loyall; bishop, p. 977.
*Green, Berryman; clergyman, p. 983.
Greer, Everett; lawyer, p. 990.
Gregory, Herbert Bailey; judge, p. 991.
*Gresham, LeRoy; clergyman, p. 993.
~ Groner, Duncan Lawrence; judge, p. 1000.
Gutherie, David Vance; physicist, p. 1010.
*Hamlin, Charles Summer; member Federal Reserve
Board, p. 1031.
Hanes, Leigh Buckner ; editor, writer, lawyer, p. 1036.
Hanzsche, William Thomson; clergyman, editor, p.
1041.
~-Harris, Walter Edward; editor, publisher, p. 1058.
Heiskell, Frederick Hugh; judge, p. 1095.
Herold, Amos Lee; professor of English, p. 1107.
Heyward, Duncan Clinch; ev-governor, p. 1115.
Hobson, John Peyton;. judge, p. 1138.
Hodges, LeRoy; economist, p. 1140.
Holt, Henry Winston; judge, p. 1156.
Hooker, James Murray; ex-congressman, p. 1160.
Huffman, Oscar Caperton; president Continental
Can company, p. 1192.

[8]

“*Hughes, Robert Morton; lawyer, p. 1195.

~ ~Mahan, George Addison; lawyer, p. 1489.

~~Martin, Robert Hugh; newspaperman, p. 1517.

~*Massie, Robert Kinloch; clergyman, p. 1523.

Reich 5 ES 5 e — Gaec mae

na
Humphreys, William Jackson; physicist, p. 1201.
*Hundley, John Trible Thomas; college president, p.
1201.

*Jett, Robert Carter; clergyman, educator, p. 1246.

*Jones, Carter Helm; clergyman, p. 1265.

Jones, Meredith Ashby; clergyman, p. 1271.

Jones, Thomas Jesse; sociologist, p. 1272..

*Kelly, Howard Atwood; surgeon, p. 1296.

Kelly, Lon Hamman; lawyer, -p. 1297.

Kempner, Isaac Herbert; cotton factor, banker, p.
1300.

*Kingsolving, Arthur Barksdale; clergyman, p. 1327.

*Latane, John Holladay; university professor, p. 1376.
Lauck, William Jett; economist, p. 1378.

Lawther, Harry Preston; lawyer, p. 1384.

Lee, George Bolling; gynecologist, p. 1391.

Lee, Howard Burton; lawyer, p. 1392.

Lewis, Reuben Alexander, Jr.; banker, p. 1413.
Lind, Samuel Colville; chemist, p. 1421.
Loftin, Scott Marion; lawyer, p. 1439.

*Lowden, Frank Orren; ex-governor, p. 1453.
MacCorkle, Emmett Wallace; clergyman, p. 1470.
Macgowan, David Bell; foreign service, p. 1475. 3
Magruder, Frank Abbott; college professor, p. 1488.

Manly, Basil; economist, p. 1496.

Martin, William McChesney; banker, p. 1518.
Mason, Charles Walter; judge, p. 1520.

McClure, Matthew Thompson, Jr.; professor phil- —
osophy, p. 1550. ;
~ McDonald, Hunter; civil engineer, p. 1562.
McDowell, William George; bishop, p. 1564.
*McFaden, Frank Talbot; clergyman, p. 1565.
*McLaughlin, Henry Woods; church official, p. 1579. —
McPheeters, William Marcellus; theologian, p. 1587. 4
Miles, Vincent Morgan; Democratic National Com- —
mitteeman, p. 1615. 4
Miller, Francis Trevelyan; historian, economist, au-
thor, p. 1620. :
Miller, Henry Willard; author, p. 1622. 3
Morrison, William Brown; college professor, p. 1670. a
Mullen, James; lawyer, p. 1684. §
Myers, Charles Franklin; clergyman, p. 1695.
Neblett, Colin; judge, p. 1703.
Neblett, William Haynie; lawyer, p. 1703.
Norwood, Hal Lee; lawyer, p. 1734. ,
O'Neal, Edward Ashbury; farm organization execu-—
tive, p. 1756. :
Ott, William Pinkerton;
1766.

   

professor mathematics, p. —

ae ee oe RB

Owen, Robert Lathem; ex-Senator, p. 1769.
*Payne, John Barton; lawyer, p. 1803.
*Peabody, George Foster; banker, p. 1804.
Peery, George Campbell; ex-congressman, governor,
p. 1812.
Perkins, William Robertson; lawyer, p. 1822.
*Pew, Marlen Edwin; editor, p. 1829.
Poindexter, Miles; lawyer, p. 1850.
Preston, Herbert Rush; lawyer, p. 1873.
Prettyman, Forrest Johnston; clergyman, p. 1874.
Quarles, James; lawyer, p. 1889.
Ragon, Heartsill; congressman, p. 1893.
Randall, Edward ; physician, p. 1898.
*Randolph, Harrison; college president, p. 1899.
*Randolph, Oscar deWolf; clergyman, p. 1900.
Rudkin, Frank H.; judge, p. 1995.
*Sampey, John Richard; theologian, p. 2012.
Sandidge, William Lee, Jr.; professor of English,
p. 2015.
*Smith, Edward Everett; clergyman, p. 2123.
*Smith, Edward Grandison; lawyer, p. 2123.
Stern, Jo Lane; soldier, lawyer, p. 2182.
Swartz, Osman Ellis; lawyer, p. 2231.
Sydenstricker, Edgar; sanitarian, p. 2236.
*Thom, Alfred Pembroke; lawyer, p. 2263.
Thom, William Taylor, Jr.; geologist, p. 2263.
‘Throckmorton, Archibald Hall ; law educator, p. 2279.
Tucker, Henry St. George; congressman, p. 2309.
Tunstall, Robert Baylor; lawyer, p. 2311.
Turnbull, Martin Ryerson; clergyman, educator, p.
2312.
Vance, William Reynolds; professor of law, p. 2327.
*Villard, Oswald Garrison; journalist, p. 2345.
Walker, Richard Wilde; judge, p. 2365.
Watkin, Elton; lawyer, p. 2388.
Wauchope, George Armstrong; university professor
p. 2393.
*Wells, John Miller; clergyman, p. 2411.
*Welsh, Herbert; publicist, artist, p. 2412.
West, Junius Edgar; ex-lieutenant governor, p. 2416.
Wickham, Henry Taylor; lawyer, p. 2447,

’

eh ee ee

Winchester, James Ridout; bishop, p. 2485.
Woodrum, Clifton Alexander; congressman, p. 2508.
Young, Thomas Kay; clergyman, p. 2537.

*Indicates honorary degree.

fy

One Small College

Durinc the World War attention was called in
the New York Times and other newspapers to the large
number of men surrounding President Wilson who
were graduates of Washington and Lee University. In
the president’s cabinet, in congress, on the bench, were
many leaders who claimed that little institution as alma
mater. It was not possible to draw any definite con-
clusion from the fact but it was a fact that interested
many, especially graduates everywhere of that college.

A few years later it was noted that of the several
leading candidates for the democratic nomination for
the presidency, two were graduates of the law school
of Washington and Lee.

Virginia newspapers, in editorials, recalling these

and similar facts, point out that in Virginia today —

Washington and Lee University graduates are playing
an important part. Governor George Peery and Lieu-
tenant Governor James Price are Washington and Lee
men. There are many others. There is C. H. Morris-
sett, state tax commissioner; S$. Heth Tyler, chairman
of the alcohol beverage control board; Abram P.
Staples, attorney general; John Q. Rhodes, state motor
vehicle commissioner. Of the seven men on the state
supreme court, three are graduates of Washington and
Lee. Among circuit and corporation court judges many
are graduates of that institution’s law school. ‘To be
added are prominent leaders in the general assembly,
including Mr. Staples and Wilbur Hall of Loudoun.

Again there is no definite conclusion to be drawn,
but the facts are interesting and not without impor-
tance, considering the fact that Washington and Lee
is a small college, has no state or church endowment.
—( Reprinted from an editorial.)

  

—

[9 ]

Reproduction of an engraving used on stationery during the sixties

 

+ i

LQG 2 —E -

ee ae

I

MA © A: 64 A Fe

Our Most Successful Year in Sports

By Wituiam §S. Barker, 1933

ITH SPRING sports teams swinging into mid-sea-

son, records and prospects point to the year
which will close in June as the best in Washington and
Lee athletic history.

Quoting an Associated Press dispatch of a week
prior to this writing, “Washington and Lee’s Generals,
whose strangle hold on the championship situation in
the old Domin- ;
ion is border-
ing
monopoly
in restraint of

upon a

trade were set-
ting the pace
in the state's
baseball title
race.” And the
situation

 

 

Harvard Smith, Hugo Bonino, and Fred Sarkis won
individual titles.

It remained for the Washington and Lee basket-
ball team to furnish the biggest surprise in Southern
conference athletic circles this year. Climaxing a sea-
son in which victories and defeats were divided evenly,
the Big Blue courtmen took successive tournament vic-
Se tories from

| Maryland,
North Carolina
State and
Duke, to win

the conference

 

champion-
ship. The start-
ling upset char-
acteristic of
this champion-
ship, in which

 

remains
unchanged, for t h e Generals
the Generals were the un-
have not yet derdogs in ev-
been defeated erytourna-
by a state ment game,
team. was accentuat-
Not all ed by the fact
Washing- that the Duke
ton and Lee team which
teams have an- Washing-
nexed state or ton and Lee

conference championships this year, but in no sport
do defeats for the Generals outnumber victories.

The Blue and White gridders started the mo-
mentous year with a surprising scoreless tie with West
Virginia, kept things moving by upsetting Kentucky
and coming within a single touchdown of beating
Princeton’s remarkable eleven, and added impetus to
the championship urge among General athletes by sub-
sequently winning the state title.

Captain Amos Bolen, guard, was named on the
all-Southern team and almost unanimously chosen by
Virginia football fans for a place on the all-State
eleven.

The Generals continued their monopoly of South-
ern conference wrestling by going through the season
undefeated and finally annexing the conference champ-
ionship in a thrilling tournament in which the keydets
of V. M. I. almost provided an upset. Co-captain

vanquished in the finals had chalked up two victories
over the Big Blue in regular season games, one of them
by a 14-point margin.

Captain Joe Sawyers, forward and captain-elect
Charlie Smith, center, were named on the all-tourna-
ment five.

Although they won no championships in the an-
nual tournament at Charlottesville, the boxers have
three team victories to their credit in five dual meets,
numbering V. P. I. and Maryland among thier victims.
Captain-elect George Short was undefeated in dual
meet competition.

The swimmers lost their first meet in many years
to a Virginia team, but registered overwhelming vic-
tories over North Carolina State and William and
Mary. ‘They tied for a close second in the conference
meet in which Duncan McDavid, captain-elect, won
three events and broke two conference records.

| 10 |

 

L_ a ao OM N

Led by Dick Dunaj, a sensational distance runner,
and Bill Schuhle, an exceptional hurdler, the trackmen
have broken even so far, defeating V. P. I., but losing
to Duke. Dunaj, who won the Southern conference
cross country run last
fall, has gained the
name of “Iron Man”
because of his _ per-
formances in running
sometimes as many as
t h r e e long-distance
races in one meet. He
leads the scoring with
four firsts and a sec-
ond in the two meets
this season. Schuhle
has four hurdle vic-
tories to his credit.
Captain Henry Haz-
ell, quarter miler, has
been kept from com-
petition by illness.

The baseball team
started out badly, los-
ing to North Carolina
State and the Univer-
sity of North Carolina
in their first two
games, but they came
back strong to win six
in a row from Wake
Forest, Richmond,
William and Mary, North Carolina State, and Vir-
ginia ‘Tech. Maryland stopped the winning streak on
a day when the Generals were decidedly off form.
Co-captain “Lefty” Sauerbrun and Joe Pette, a
sophomore, have been doing most of the pitch-
ing. George Short, a veteran, has been performing
almost faultlessly behind the bat, and Sauerbrun and
Bob Field top the Generals at hitting. Ed Howerton,
a converted outfielder, has done surprisingly well at
filling the shoes of Harry Fitzgerald, all-American
first baseman last year.

As this is writing, the tennis team, delayed by
extensive repairs to the tennis courts, which in turn
has been delayed by many days of rain, is just going
into action. The golf team, however, has a fifty-
fifty record of wins and losses for six matches.
Virginia, Boston University, and Hampden-Sydney
have been the Generals’ victims on the links, while
Duke, North Carolina State, and Richmond have de-
feated the Blue and White golfers.

To make the year more successful, and what is no

 

 

 

Leroy Hodges

I

Me A 6 Ae. 2 ee

less important, brighten the prospects for future years,
most of the freshman teams have placed the majority
of their games in the win column. The Brigadier eleven
lost only the opening game of the five-game schedule.
The basketball team lost
only one game of an ex-
tensive campaign, and that =
loss can be attributed to
the fact that the game was
played at College Park,
Maryland, only a_ few
hours after the Little |
Generals had won an over-
time game in Washing-
ton, D. C.

The freshman wrest-
lers made it six straight
years without defeat for |
Washington and Lee first |
year grappling teams. The |
boxers had a poor season | |
and the swimmers, meet-
ing some of the strongest
prep school outfits in the
country, just about broke
even. Some excellent men
were discovered in both
sports, however. Boasting
three players who have al-
ready received offers from
big league clubs, the
freshman baseball team
has won two and lost two. The trackmen, in their only
meet of the season had little difficulty in downing the
V. P. I. yearlings.

 

 

    

eee
~

<*
aL

 

mem ere
. chan
.
.

 

Sauerbrun

ry
Se

ForEst FLETCHER, new president of the Southern
conference, is preparing a campaign for the abolition
of boxing in the Southern conference. He is backed
by a strong sentiment against intercollegiate boxing.
This crystallization of unfavorable opinion is upon the
grounds that, as practiced in intercollegiate contests
now, it is a dangerous, money-making, bloody spec-
tacle, with emphasis upon the knockout.

Ps
VW

For THE FIRST time in the history of intercolleg-
iate wrestling at Washington and Lee, members of the
wrestling team have taken part in the national tour-
nament.

Co-captain Charles Pritchard of this year’s wrest-
ling team and Hugo Bonino, Southern Conference
heavyweight champion, went to the national tournament
at Ann Arbor and placed.

[ ll |

am ee

I

MA G A Z@ 1 Nae

To Continue a Controversy

N THE LAST number of the Alumni Magazine,

a memoir was printed of Mr. George Sykes’ in-

vention of the curved ball and of its first use in
an intercollegiate contest. Since then there has been cor-
respondence that is reported below for the benefit of
those who are interested in research into the truth of
claims that the Sykes ball was a true invention and was
first used in the baseball game between Washington
and Lee and Virginia, as reported in Mr. Sykes’ own
recollections of the event.

Following the publication of this, the editor began
to receive further data.

The first referred to an article in the Readers’ Di-
gest of May, 1933, called ‘““The Revolutionists of Base-
ball” which was condensed and reprinted from Base-
ball Magazine of August, 1932.

The author of this article, Harold C. Burr, credits
the discovery—not the invention—of the curved ball
to a young Billy Cummings in Massachusetts in the
early ’80’s and traces the origin to this young man’s
idle and playful habit of skipping clam shells across
the water and watching their fantastic antics. He quotes
an interview with Mr. Cummings and comes to this
conclusion :

‘“. . .and so curved ball pitching came into base-
ball, the first of the great changes.”

He credits Mr. Cummings with the use of the
curved ball in a game against Harvard.

A letter from the assistant athletic director of
Harvard, Mr. Henry W. Clark, suggests that Mr. W.
H. Coolidge at Boston, captain of the Harvard base-
ball team in the early ’80’s, and Mr. N. W. Mumford
of Cambridge, captain of the team in the late ’80’s,
are the only authorities who still might throw light
upon the truth.

Mr. Coolidge could not be reached. Mr. Mumford
writes an interesting letter and gives permission for its
publication :

March 22, 1934
Harry K. Young, Esq., Alumni Sec’y,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.
My dear Sir:

Thank you heartily for your very courteous and
interesting letter of March 19. The inference in your
letter that | may know something about the “contro-
versy” is flattering and I wish I could contribute. But
I really do not know anything about the first amateur
curved pitching.

As a child, the first professional game I saw was
in ‘78. There was no curved ball. It would take a couple
of pages to tell how the pitcher shot his delivery, run-
ning backwards three or four yards and whirling to
face the plate. “Doc” Kennedy received calmly with-
out glove, mask or protector! Seven years later I saw
my first University game.

If you have not already written to Alonzo A.
Stagg on this subject, pray do so. Of course Stagg is
best known as a football coach, but all he did was done
well as his forty years at Chicago University will at-
test. His class at Yale was 1888, and his University
had no trouble carrying off the championship during
the four years that he pitched. (Freshmen could play
on the Varsity then.) Unluckily I played on the op-
posing team.

I should suppose that Stagg is the kind of man
who would collect and file records and statistics.

I hope you establish Mr. Sykes’ claim.

Yours sincerely,
(Signed) N. W. Mumrorp

The Final Word From An Authority

“127 West Euclid Avenue
Stockton, California
April 16, 1934
Mr. Harry K. (Cy) Young,
Alumni Secretary
Washington and Lee University
lexington, Virginia
My dear Mr. Young:

I have been-unable to reply to your letter of March
26th until Mrs. Stagg could unpack some of the data
which we brought with us from Chicago. I am no
longer at the University of Chicago on account of reach-
ing seventy years of age when the members of the
faculty automatically retire. I am now connected with
the College of the Pacific at Stockton, California.

Having been a pitcher and having pitched on five
championship teams at Yale during the years 1886-
1890 the controversy over the origin of college curved
ball pitching is naturally interesting to me.

I am afraid the credit of pitching the first curved
ball in intercollegiate athletics antedates 1877. When
[ was at Yale, they told me about Ham Avery of Yale
who pitched in 1874, curving the ball, and in looking
up the history of the curved ball by William Arthur
Cummings, who is generally credited with being the
inventor of it, I find that he taught Avery of Yale to

[| 12 |

 

Tt Sao a 2 Ae 6 COUN

pitch a curve in 1874 and that he also taught Mann,
the pitcher at Princeton, how to curve a ball at about
the same time.

Cummings claimed that he invented the curve in
1865 and the Brooklyn Union of July 9th, 1870, has
this to say about a game between the Stars of Brook-
lyn and the Mutuals of New York in which Cummings’
curved pitching is depicted:

“In pitching Wolter’s (Mutuals) swift delivery
was not only surpassed in speed by that of Cummings,
but in strategic play did the Star pitcher fully equal
even Martin, this being a rare combination of pitching
talent in one man. In fact, the play of Cummings in
his position as pitcher in this game shows conclusively
that he has studied the science of his art, for it was
not his speed which troubled the Mutual batsmen, but
a command of the ball which enabled him to practically
illustrate “how not to do it’—a peculiar power of giv-
ing a curve to the line of the ball to the right or to the
left, and this is one of the chief elements of his success.”

As early as 1875, I saw a curved ball pitched my-
self after a game between the Mutuals of New York
and the Orange, New Jersey, team. I lived in West
Orange. In fact, I first saw a curved ball through a
knothole in the fence behind the catcher but after the
game the pitcher of the Mutuals generously gave an
exhibition before a crowd of people and, as a thirteen
year old boy, I was in the front rank of spectators and
highly excited over it.

I recall that in the following year, 1876, at four-
teen years of age, I learned to curve the ball myself
after continuous practice for a year. I was highly ex-
cited about it and ran to my home and yelled, “Mama,
Mama, I’ve got, I’ve got it.” She, in anxiety, said,
“Got what?” fearing that I had caught some disease
and I followed it up by telling her that I had got the
curve.

Cummings claimed and was supported by his con-
temporaries that he first pitched a curved ball in 1865
while he was a student at the Falley Seminary at Ful-
ton, New York. B.S. McKinstry, who was a member
of the same team supports his contention. ‘The curve
was officially recognized in 1867 when Cummings was
pitching for the Excelsiors, a social organization of
Brooklyn, against Harvard on Jarvis Field. He states,
“We were playing Harvard on Jarvis Field and Archie
Bush, a heavy batter, was at the bat. By this time I
had gained good control of the curve and decided that
I would use it on him. ‘The first ball he struck at went
about a foot beyond the end of the bat. I tried again
with the same result. With others of the Harvard
batters I did the same and before the game was over
[ had fully satisfied myself that I had mastered the

I

m BA & OAS: 2 oe. eS

curve. In 1868, I joined the famous Star Club of
Brooklyn, the crack amateur organization of the coun-
try and remained with them through 1868-71. During
this time we won every series of games with amateur
clubs we played, winning the amateur championship
of the United States and Canada. ‘The Stars also de-
feated many strong professional nines including the
Mutuals of New York and the Olympics of Washing-
ton.”

The extract from the Brooklyn Union of July 9,
1870, quoted above tells of this Star-Mutual game
which the Stars won 14-3.

Thanking you for asking me to participate in the
Sincerely

Amos ALONZO STAGG

discussion, I am,

The editors of the Readers’ Digest asked for a
statement that they could publish, and to those who
are still interested, it is recommended that the Readers’
Digest in the next few months be watched for a pub-
lication that will continue and probably conclude the
controversy.

ries

The Old ested Bridge

DuRING the severe winter in Lexington, with ice
in North River jamming the piers of the old covered
bridge in Kast Lexington, the safety of the bridge has
been impaired. Fear that this historic landmark may
be torn town and replaced by a modern steel bridge has
caused concern. Dr. Gaines, in a speech before the Lex-
ington Business and Professional Women’s Club, at
which the club was host to all other civic organizations
in town, urged sentiment and action for the preserva-
tion of this picturesque landmark.

 

New Head for Language Dept.

Dr. Leon P. Smiru, Jr., now of the University
of Chicago, has accepted an appointment as Professor
of Romance Languages at Washington and Lee, effec-
tive with the 1934-35 session. Dr. Smith, a native of
Georgia, took his bachelor’s degree from Emory Uni-
versity, and worked for eight years in the field of sec-
ondary education in Georgia. In 1926 he received his
Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and has been a
member of that faculty ever since. For the last several
years, in addition to his teaching responsibilities, Dr.
Smith has served as assistant dean of students in the
College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Chi-
cago. Dr. and Mrs. Smith, with their two children.
will move to Lexington about September 1. He will
be the head of the department, left vacant by the
death of Dr. Easter.

[ 13 ]

A (LA). Tle

M AG A-2i Wea

The Passing of Dr. Harry D. Campbell

r. Henry DoNALD CAMPBELL, former dean of

the University for a quarter of a century, died
Tuesday, April 10, at 2 o’clock at his home on the
Washington and Lee campus. He was seventy-two
years of age. His death resulted from a series of at-
tacks ‘of angina pectoris. He suffered a slight attack
while visiting his son,
Edmund D. Campbell at
Falls Church during the
Easter holidays. Driv-
ing to his home in Lex-
ington he reached here
Wednesday, and Satur-
day suffered several se-
vere attacks. He rallied
from these in a satis-
factory manner but
Monday night another
attack came followed by
one ‘Tuesday _ shortly
after noon, that caused
his death.

Members of the
family were summoned
here Tuesday morning.
His son, Edmund D.
Campbell, arriving just
after his death and his
other son, Rev. Robert
B. Campbell, Presbyter-
ian minister of Win-
chester, reached here
Tuesday evening.

Dr. Campbell came
of a family line long identified and closely associated
with Washington and Lee University. This associa-
tion was reflected in his undying love and loyalty for
the school. His father, Professor John Lyle Campbell,
was for many years professor of chemistry and geology
at the college and was succeeded by his son. His
grandfather, Robert Smith Campbell, was a member of
the college board of trustees and a great uncle, Dr.
Samuel Campbell, a beloved physician of the county,
had charge of the affairs of the school after they were
relinquished by Dr. William Graham. His brother,
Mr. John Lyle Campbell, was treasurer of the institu-
tion from 1877 until his death in 1913 and with him
Dr. H. D. Campbell as acting president conducted the
affairs of the University from January until June of
1912 during the interim between the leaving of Dr.

 

George H. Denny and the coming of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith as president.

Dr. Campbell was graduated from Washington
and Lee in the year 1882 with the degree of master of
arts. Three years later he obtained his Ph.D. from the
same institution. From 1886 to 1888 he studied at the
Universities of Berlin
and Heidelburg and in
1887 there began his
long official connection
with the school when he
became professor of
geology and biology. He
retained the active chair
as head of the geology
department until his
death. In 1906 he be-
came dean of the Uni-
versity and there was in-
stituted a period of close
personal association with
hundreds of students
that passed through the
University for the next
twenty-six years that en-
deared him so much to
many graduates of the
school scattered through-
out the country, among
them many men now
prominent in public and
private business affairs.
They came to his office
summoned for infraction
of rules or they came voluntarily to seek his advice and
always received the same fair treatment that came from
his deep-seated understanding of the ways of youth.
This sympathy with an understanding of youth he
kept with him always. No man connected with the
University had as wide an acquaintance with its grad-
uates or as great a knowledge of its affairs as did Dr.
Campbell. When the news of his unexpected illness
and quick death spread, mails and telegraph wires to
Lexington were crowded with messages of sympathy
and sorrow.

Dr. Campbell was born in Lexington July 29,
1862, a son of John Lyle Campbell and Harriet Peters
Bailey Campbell. His father and his mother had been
associated together on the faculty of Mary Baldwin
Seminary at Staunton. He was the sixth child of a

[ 14 |

i we Sos 2M N

family of seven, of whom two survive: Dr. Robert F.
Campbell, Presbyterian minister of Asheville, N. C.;
and Miss Virginia Campbell, of Greenwich, Conn.

As a young man in Lexington he became much
identified with the life of the community. Before the
town had a health officer a local committee looked after
the health of the community and he was a member of
this. For many years he served as a member of the
Lexington school board and was president of the board
when he died. In 1911 he was elected a deacon in the
Lexington Presbyterian church and took a most active
interest in its affairs as chairman of the important fi-
nance committee. He was also a member of the board
of trustees of Mary Baldwin college.

In the field of education Dr. Campbell was widely
recognized as a practical geologist and for many years
had taken much interest in education throughout the
South, attending meetings of the Southern association
of colleges and secondary schools, of which he was
president in 1930. In all of his undertakings and in-
terests he was painstaking, accurate and exact and when
he undertook anything he did it well. He was honored
with the graduate degree of doctor of science from the
University of Pittsburgh and held the degree of doc-
tor of laws from Tulane University. He was a fellow
of the Geological Society of America, the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa scholastic society and of the
Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.

Dr. Campbell retired as dean of the University
two years ago but continued to act as head of the
geology department. At the same time he was named
to the position of historian of the University and had
spent much time in an intensive research of the ad-
ministration of General Robert E. Lee as president of
the University, days which he could indistinctly recall
himself. He had unearthed a large amount of new data
on this subject.

Dr. Campbell married Miss Martha Miller of
Georgetown, D. C., July 18, 1886. She survives him
with two sons, Edmund D. Campbell, attorney, of
Washington; and Rev. Robert B. Campbell, of Win-
chester. One son, Henry Donald Campbell, died in in-
fancy and another son, Benjamin Miller Campbell,
was graduated from West Point just after the World
War and met a tragic sudden death when thrown from
a horse at an army post in Texas a year later.

Funeral services were held April 12, at 11
o'clock in Lee chapel, conducted by Dr. James J. Mur-
ray of the Presbyterian church. Burial was in the Lex-
ington cemetery. The faculty sat in a group as honor-
ary pall-bearers and a selected group of students were
active pall-bearers. Classes at the University were sus-

I

MA ee ae oe ee

pended all day and the Washington anniversary cele-
bration scheduled for that day was postponed. Dr.
Campbell’s death was the third in the faculty of the
school during the year and was preceded by the death
of Dr. de la Warr B. Easter, head of the department
of Romance Languages, last summer, and Professor
William T. Lyle, head of the engineering department,
during the winter.

President Francis P. Gaines issued the following
statement Tuesday evening:

“Dr. Campbell was a member of a family that for
several generations had been distinguished in the his-
tory of Washington and Lee. He himself had an extra-
ordinarily intimate connection with this institution.
Born and reared on the campus, he was educated here
and was a member of this faculty for 47 years. With
the exception of a few years spent in Germany he never
lived away from the University. He was known and
loved by more alumni than any other member of the
faculty. His direct service has been and will continue
to be of inestimable value as teacher of uncommon
power, as administrator for 26 years, as historian, and
as friend of countless hosts of boys.”

Dr. Douglas Freeman, editor of the Richmond
News-Leader, commented as follows on Dr. Camp-
bell’s death:

“Dean Campbell's death is a dire loss to Virginia
science and scholarship. He was one of the great pro-
tagonists of academic freedom, and through his father
who was one of General Lee’s most trusted colleagues
at Washington college, he maintained the tradition of
that great institution.”

SS a

The cover on this month’s magazine is the house
in which Dr. Harry Campbell was born. It is an act
of remembrance, or respect and deep sentiment that
the cover of the magazine in which there is the sad
notice of his death, should carry this picture to all those
who loved him.

Ly

New Biography of Robert E. Lee

Jupce Roserr W. Winston of Richmond has
just published (by Morrow, New York, $4.00) a new
biography of Robert E. Lee. Isabel Paterson, a critic
whom nothing unworthy, inadequate, nor lacking in
literary distinction could trick into praise, says “His
story has charm as he had charm.” It is a full-length
life of the cavalier, the warrior, the husband, the gen-
ius in the art of living, gentle, red-blooded Southerner
—not the pale, legend-shrouded hero to be taken for
granted. It is recommended to us all who love and
honor him.

[ 15 ]

| ee ee

I

M A G A -Z 1. oe

 

William McChesney Martin, Trustee

ILLIAM McCHESNEY MARTIN was born in Lex-

ington, Kentucky, on July 2, 1874. He was pre-
pared for college by Professor Angus Neil Gordon, a
Confederate Veteran and graduate of Washington and
Lee. Professor Gordon was a pioneer in that idea
which later became popular as the Country Day School
movement. His school was
three miles from town.
He ran a bus from the
Courthouse Square, or if
the boys preferred they
could ride their ponies.
However, if they were
kept in, the bus left with-
out them, if they had rid-
den in the bus, and if
they had come on a horse,
the horse was sent in with
the bus. To be kept in
meant a good healthful
walk of three miles.

Mr. Martin entered
Washington and Lee in
1891 and graduated in
1895. He was a member
of the Graham Literary
Society and the Harry Lee
Boat Crew, for a time act-
ing as coxswain of that
crew. He _ belonged to
Sigma Nu fraternity. He
played football as a sub-
stitute on the team of 1891
and was a regular on the
teams of 1892 and 1893.
He was editor-in-chief of
The Southern Collegian,
was one of the editors of
the first issue of the Calyx and represented the Univer-
sity in the Southern Interstate Oratorical Contest. He
also took part in such track events as they had at that
time and was valedictorian of the Class of 1895. As
Chairman he presided at all mass meetings of students
which were then held in Newcomb Hall.

On March 1, 1896, he went to St. Louis as Sec-
retary to the Superintendent of Terminals of the Louis-
ville and Nashville Railroad, and later became Assistant
City Ticket Agent in St. Louis. He resigned to enter
the St. Louis Law School, a department of Washing-

ton University in St. Louis. While at the Law School

 

he taught English Classics at Smith Academy, a prepa-
ratory school operated by Washington University, and
received his LL.B. from that institution in 1900. That
same summer he was admitted to the Missouri Bar.
He became connected with the Mississippi Valley Trust
Company to care for its probate work and as things
developed worked in all
departments of the com-
pany, becoming a vice-
*president. He continued
to represent the ‘Trust
Company as one of its at-
torneys as long as he was
connected with it.

After the Federal
Reserve Act became a law,
on September 30, 1914, he
resigned and was appoint-
ed Chairman of the Board
and Federal Reserve
Agent of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of St. Louis.
‘or several weeks he was
the only officer and upon
him fell the initial organi-
zation work. ‘There were
times when he could carry
the whole of the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis
then in existence home
with him in a brief case
for night work. He was
Chairman of the District
Committee on Capital Is-
sues Federal Reserve Dis-
trict No. 8 during the
World War. In January,
1929, he was elected Gov-

ernor of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis,
which position he still holds. He was elected a trustee
of Washington and Lee University in 1928.

ieee
- ae

lr HAS recently been discovered that the statue
of General Lee in the statutary hall of the Capitol in
Washington has never been formally accepted by the
national government and dedicated.

The ceremony of presentation, acceptance and
dedication is being arranged and Dr. Gaines will be
the principal speaker.

| 16 |

eae a ee SR

ea: Aa ee A Se

Finals Program, 1934

CHARLES A.
PRITCHARD, P re s i-
dent of Finals, has
ready for distribution
very handsome pro-
grams for Finals
Week—the 184th, for
souvenirs. (60c_ in
parchment, 45c_ in
cardboard. )

This is the most
complete and hand-
some program for F1-
nals issued in years
and is almost a min-
lature Calyx.

 

A skeleton of the data in the program follows:

FINAL WEEK, 1934
Program

FRIDAY, JUNE FIRST
5:30 p. m.—Second and Third Crew Boat Races—
North River.
9:00 p. m.—Inter-Fraternity Ball

SATURDAY, JUNE SECOND
10:30 a. m.—Pan-White Friar Dansant.

6:00 p. m.—First Crew Boat Races........ North River
9:00 p. m.—Sigma German.

SUNDAY, JUNE THIRD

11:00 a. m.—Baccalaureate Sermon............ Lee Chapel
Rev. C. A. BarBour, D. D.
8:30 p. m~—Alumni Smoker............ Alumni Building

MONDAY, JUNE FOURTH
Alumni Day

 

10:00 a. m.
Hall.

10:00 a. m—Meeting Alum-
ni Board of Trus-
tees—Alumni Build-

Meeting Board of Trustees—Newcomb

ing.
12:30 p. m.—Alumni Lun-
cheon — University

Dining Hall.

y Y
ai e . —_

  

2:00 p. m.—Meeting Alumni, Incorporated—Carnegie
Library.

8:30 p. m.—President’s Reception to Graduates, Trus-
tees, Visiting Alumni and Parents—The Pres-
ident’s House.

6:00 p.m.—Annual Boat Races, Harry Lee-Albert
RR SAG i sa pttiabheek.. Bt aire aga North River

10:00 p. m.—Senior Alumni Ball.
TUESDAY, JUNE FIFTH
Commencement
10:45 a. m.—Academic Procession of ‘Trustees, Fac-
ulty, and Graduates.

11:00 a. m—Commencement Exercises—Lee Chapel
Address, Hon. BENNETT CHAMP CLarK, LL.B.
Valedictory Address, A. A. BOLEN

10:00 p. m.—Final Ball.
6:00 a. m.—‘‘College Friendships.”

 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE FACULTY
Francis Pendleton Gaines.................c..cccccsceeecees President

Rigeee: MONEY <1 WCMOR INS (..5656055.5..000.0..6..000 5 oetelle Dean
Dean of Students

Glover Dunn Hancock Dean, School of Conmerce
William Haywood Moreland........ Dean, School of Law

Francis Johnson Gilliam

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE STUDENT Bopy
Sherwood Willing Wise, Mississippi, President
Kili Finkelstein, Florida, Vice-President
Kdward P. Mincher, New Jersey

Secretary-Treasurer

  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

FINALS WEEK CoMMITTEE

Charles Austin Pritchard, West
Virginia, President
Joseph Walker, Jr., South Carolina,
Vice-President
John M. Graham, Jr., Georgia, Secretary-
Treasurer
Joseph Bernard Magee, Arkansas, Publicity

VARSITY REcoRDS FOR 1933

State Champion Football Team............... Coach Tilson

Southern Conference Wrestling Team....Coach Mathis

Southern Conference Basketball Team....Coach Young

[ 17 |

Abs. Ae ee

I

M: A: G. A~-Z- 1: 3 ae

 

SENIOR LAW CLASS

President—Walker Calkins Cremin................ Oklahoma
Vice-President—Layne H. Ford.............. West Virginia
Secretary-Treasurer—Henry West Butler........ Virginia

Executive Committeeman—Robert Darias Bailey, Jr..,....
West Virginia
Historian—Albert Meints Fowlet........................ Illinois

SENIOR SCIENCE CLASS

President—Henry Lippincott Haines.......... New Jersey
Vice-President—Lewis Wendell Martin............ Virginia
Secretary-Treasurer—Claude E. Sanford....New York
Historian—William Otis Leffell.................0..... Virginia
SeNrIoR ACADEMIC CLASS
President—Harry Lee Eichelberger, Jr.,.......... Virginia
Vice-President—John Richard Saunders............ Florida

Secretary-Treasurer—Arnold §. Dallava.. Massachusetts
Executive Committeeman—Joseph Walker, Jr.,............
South Carolina

SENIOR COMMERCE CLASS

President—LeRoy Hodges, Jr.,..........::1 Virginia
Vice-President—Rugeley B. DeVan, Jr...West Virginia
Secretary-Treasurer—Richard W. Grafton..New York
Executive Committeeman—Everett Tucker, Jr.............

Arkansas
Historian—William Seeman Stern................ New York

INTERFRATERNITY BALL
June First
Led by
Pryton B. WINFREE, JR., with Miss LOvuIsE WINFREE

PI ALPRA NU, WHITE FRIAR DANSANT
June Second
Led by
H. M. Ruert, Jr., with Miss Suk JOHNSON

SIGMA GERMAN
Led by
H. L. FirzcErAcp with Miss Betsy ANN WapsworTH

SENIOR ALUMNI BALL
June Fourth
Led by
LeRoy Hopcks, Jr., with Miss Rosa Barre Hopcrs

FINAL BALL
June Fifth
Led by
Crartes A. PritcHARD with Miss MartHa TALLEY

fy
_ aS

The Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered by
Dr. Clarence A. Barbour, President of Brown Uni-
versity. Dr. Barbour is a graduate of Brown and of
Rochester ‘Theological Seminary. He holds the D.D.

degree from Rochester, Brown, Williams, and Col-
gate, the LL.D. from Denison and Colby, and the
S.T.D. degree from Syracuse.

The Commencement address will be delivered by
Bennet Clark, United States Senator from Missouri.
Mr. Clark is an author of some distinction, having
brought out within the last year or two a life of John
Quincy Adams. He is the son of the late Champ Clark
and is regarded as one of the scholarly and gifted men
in public life.

ry

Dr. Gaines, Heavy Schedule

On Aprit 29th Dr. Gaines and Cy Young left
for another alumni trip. Monday the 30th was Cincin-
nati Day with a meeting of Washington and Lee men
of that vicinity at a dinner at the University Club that
evening, Laurence Witten, 1910, and Roger Bear, 1914,
in charge.

Tuesday is Detroit Day for the Michigan alumni
with a dinner at the Wardell Hotel, Chan Gordon,
1932, and Dr. Edward Lyons, 1912, in charge.

Wednesday is Chicago Day at the University
Club, with this committee handling the affair:

William B. McCluer, 1879, Charles J. Faulkner,
Jr., 1898, Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 1913, Reuben A.
Lewis, Jr., 1916, Allen D. Symonds, 1933.

In Chicago Dr. Gaines will address the Association
of Commerce at a one o'clock meeting.

Dr. GartnEs has an unusually heavy schedule of
out of town appointments this spring for speaking en-
gagements.

On June 12 he speaks at the annual meeting of the
American Bankers Institute in Washington. On May
7th he delivers the commencement address at the Uni-
versity of Alabama.

On May 23 he will address the graduating class of
Intermont College at Bristol, Tenn.-Va.; and on May
29 he will be in Richmond at the Medical College of
Virginia. On June 11 he will speak at the commence-
ment exercises of Dennison University at Greenville,
North Carolina.

At the inauguration of President Colligan at
Hunter College on May 4, Washington and Lee will
be represented by William J. Cox, A.B., B.S. in C. E.,
1917, Professor of Engineering Mechanics, Sheffield
Scientific School, Yale University.

At the Centennial Celebration of the University
of Delaware, May 11, 12, and 13, Washington and
Lee will be represented by Frederick S. Johnson, B.5.,
1911, in charge of Technical Personnel for the DuPont
Companies.

[ 18 ]

Dr. Gaines’ predecessor, Dr. Geo..
H. Denny, is president of the University of Alabama.

 

4
&
>
a
q
a
es
4.
Pg.
a

A .
we J
mp bu. 3 ates
fs Si
Yogd SX Sue 7 .
AC Ct ene ry,
. ad + .*
~

ab ae a sae v™
eR ae Pra te, Ss

> r 4
S 0 Ay Ph coe 4
tte - Ye

— “2 am «€6N

I

M  A~ G- & -2: 4 Bee

The Editor Has This to Say:

a. 22nd of March ordinarily is the height of

7 early spring in Lexington. When I left here
that date with Dr. Gaines for Florida, there was a
cold, miserable drizzle, freezing into sleet; then came
snow, ice, and for the few days I was enjoying the
sunshine in Florida, there was still heavy winter in
Lexington.

Dr. Gaines and I wakened in Jacksonville with
the sun shining, the temperature 65, palm trees wav-
ing. We stopped only between trains in the pretty sta-
tion there and went on to Palm Beach, arriving in the
early afternoon. We were met there by George Clark,
1926, and Buck Baugher, 1925. Lewis Twyman, 1913,
who was in charge of arrangements for the Palm Beach
meeting, was playing off a golf tournament and we
saw him later.

We drove directly to the New Palm Beach Hotel,
which was headquarters for the meeting of the Florida
State Bar Association. We occupied the presidential
suite as it would be called in this democratic country,
but in Palm Beach it is reserved for the heads of im-
perial governments and foreign monarchies.

We made a tour of the grandeur of America’s
play capital of wealth. We were entertained at dinner
by Horner Fisher, 1917, who had Washington and
Lee alumni and guests of the bar meeting. After din-
ner, there was a dance in the patio of the hotel.

Early the next morning, or late that night, accord-
ing to Palm Beach’s social schedule, there was a break-
fast at 8:30 of Washington and Lee alumni at which
29 gathered, with Lewis Twyman as host. It was as
informal as anything in Palm Beach can be. I made
the first of my speeches, or rather my speech, for it
was repeated word for word everywhere we went. It
was not a speech but a report in my double capacity as
Alumni Secretary and member of the athletic coaching
staff. In my feeble way, I tried to convey to our alumni,
so remote from Lexington, something of the feeling
of change and encouragement that has come over the
alumni office, the Alumni Board of Trustees, and the
entire Association. Since our reorganization last year,
there is an entirely new life and new usefulness and
productiveness in all the affairs of the Alumni Asso-
ciation. The reorganization by class-agents and the
handsome alumni fund contributed last year to the sup-
port of the Association and for the benefit of the Uni-
versity, for the first time since my connection, has
made the association a vital element in its usefulness to
the University.

This is the report that I made everywhere and

with equal modesty, I outlined the success of our ath-
letic program from the beginning last fall, with that
sturdy and almost invincible football team, with the
completely invincible basketball team and wrestling
team. I am fond of saying everywhere that our athletic
teams invariably meet competing teams drawn from
larger student bodies in all except a very few cases,
and in some cases, from student bodies ten times as
large as ours. In major sports this year we have met
46 teams and scored 30 successes.

I am being a little fuller in reporting the burden
of my report than I can be in giving you any idea of
what Dr. Gaines says or the incomparable manner of
his oratory.

He never fails to charm an audience, and in spite
of the few years he has been with us, he is able to
saturate everything he says with the essential feeling
of this place and the deep and true sentiment that
comes from his remarkable penetration of our full
traditions and values. He can appear before a mixed
group of Washington and Lee men of all ages and
by some alchemy of words and phraseology that so
fluently and charmingly expresses his thoughts, draw
each one of them, in feeling, back to a lively remem-
brance of their own days upon the campus and their
own particular intimate associations. He makes also,
in his way, a report of what is going on here and of
the institution’s high position in our contemporary
times, but he always adds these other moving things
that make any Washington and Lee meeting to which
he goes seem transported to the one particular place
we all love in common.

That same day in Palm Beach, Dr. Gaines was
entertained at luncheon at the Breakers by Mr. Scott
Loftin, 1899, attorney and representative in friendly
receivership for the Florida East Coast Railway and
Hotels. The afternoon was spent in a social round and
then came the State Bar Banquet of several hundred
delegates, with Washington and Lee men _ heavily
weighting the delegation, it seemed. Dr. Gaines, fol-
lowing Governor Ely, did not speak until nearly mid-
night, an hour which in no way seemed to dull his
audience’s appreciation of the excellence of his speech.
His subject was Washington and Lee and its found-
ers’ relations to the history of education in this coun-
try, with particular respect to training of its lawyers.

The next morning George Clark and Lewis Twy-
man and Jean Ellis, 1923, drove us to Miami and
showed us the bright panorama of that brilliant and
beautiful beach. An incidental episode of great im-

[ 19 ]

aaa A. Beh Be

I

a Ae SO a a

 

portance was a visit to the Deering Estate with Sen-
ator Fred M. Hudson, 1890, and Mr. Chauncey Mce-
Cormick, of “our McCormick family,” a nephew of
Mr. Deering.

That night in Miami the alumni banquet was held
at the University Club and there were about 30 present.
Senator Hudson was toastmaster, and a formal local
association was organized called the Gulf Stream As-
sociation, with Lewis Twyman president and George
Clark secretary. The morning after that we left for
the trip to Tampa by the Tamiami Trail, through the
well-known Everglades. The Everglades never seem
to live up to the childhood illusion traceable to ancient
and misleading geographies. Native alligators are ex-
tinct and have been domesticated for the sport of
tourists.

In Tampa we were met by Mr. Kenneth I. Me-
Kay, 1904, and John Bell, 1921, and M. Carribello,
1907. We toured the city and environs and got our
first impression of the west coast. The alumni banquet
that night was at the Hillsboro Hotel, with about 30
present and Mr. McKay presiding. An association was
formally organized, called the West Coast Association,
with Mr. McKay president and Howard McFarlane,
1913, secretary.

Immediately after this fine meeting we took the
Seaboard for Jacksonville, arriving too early to be met.
Resting at the Carling Hotel after these very strenu-
ous days, we were aroused early and enthusiastically
by Rhydon Latham, 1928, who was manager that day
of a stirring round of social engagements, covering all
the representative and distinguished people in town.
Dr. Gaines was given a luncheon by Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred du Pont at their winter residence and had to
decline invitations to his yacht which lay in the basin.

There were teas, one after the other, with Dr.
Gaines in tow of Rhydon, going from one to another
on scheduled time, no hostess being suspicious that
he had left another to be with her and was leaving her
in order not to disappoint subsequent ones. Among
these particularly was one given by Herman Ulmer,
1915, and Mrs. Hubbard, who has very tender asso-
ciations with Washington and Lee.

The alumni banquet in Jacksonville was held early
for we had to take an early train that night for home.
There were about 35 at the banquet and the feeling
there seemed conscious that this was our last appear-
ance and we must leave a hospitable state and our
generous hosts fully satisfied in every respect.

I am not able to report with acceptable accuracy
all those who came to the various meetings and those
who shared with our hosts in each place, the very ex-
ceptional and gracious acts of hospitality. Among
them were:

Patm BEACH MEETING
M. F. Baugher, 1925; Luther L. Copley, 1925;

Wallace Ruff, 1914; W. Courtney King, 1921; David

R. Dunham, 1909; Thomas J. Ellis, 1923; Hugh M.
Taylor, 1923; Paul D. Barns, 1915; G. P. McCord,
1909; C. Edmund Worth, 1916; George T. Clark,
1925; Paul Irons, 1906; Chester Wiggins, 1913; I. P.
Crutchfield, 1914; A. L. McCarthy, 1923; H. C. Fish-
er, 1917; Herman Ulmer, 1915; Reuben Ragland,
1909; C. I. Carey, 1909; F. W. Cason, 1911; H. B.
Abramson, 1932; R. O. Morrow, 1932; Scott M. Lof-
tin, 1899; F. M. Hudson, 1890; Lewis Twyman, 1913;
M. Carabello, 1907, and Hilton S. Hampton, 1900.

Miami MEETING

Thomas J. Ellis, 1923; Claud B. Bush, 1914; John
A. Moore, 1905; Paul D. Barns, 1917; Marshall G.
Twyman, 1917; J. Emmet Wolfe, 1929; O. B. Sim-
mons, 1921; R. B. Gautier, Jr., 1932; Joseph M. Cheat-
ham, 1931; Lewis J. Hawkins, 1932; John H. Cheat-
ham, Jr., 1932; F. M. Hudson, 1890; A. L. Mce-
Carthy, 1923; B. D. Meeker, Jr., 1924; Vernon Biddle,
1926; Charles J. Holland, 1928; George T. Clark,
1925; W. C. Seybold, 1928; Luther L. Copley, 1925;
Wallace Ruff, 1914; W. F. Blanton, 1911; W. F.
Parker, 1920; Lewis Twyman, 1913; R. R. Saunders,
1924.

TAMPA MEETING

Hilton S$. Hampton, 1900; Glen Evins, 1920; E.
K. Nelson, Jr., 1918; David A. Falk, 1916; Richard D.
Morales, 1909; Charles H. Ross, 1923; Bruce Draper,
1925; C. Sparkman Ball, 1927; T. O. Watkins, 1925;
W. Courtney King, 1921; Gordon lL. Gibbons, 1924;
W. B. Withers, 1910; A. R. Larrick, 1907: C. T.
Dawkins, 1909; John B. Neuner, 1933; George L.
Conner, 1928; J. Paul Gaines; J. Tom Watson, 1911;
Howard P. MacFarlane, 1913; John Bell, 1921; Rus-
sell H. Tarr, 1904; L. J. Desha, 1906; H. C. Till-
man, 1906; Pasco Altman, 1912; A. B. McMullen,
1908; Marcus H. Cohen, 1930; Herbert A. Hartley,
1930; S. Gwynn Coe, 1909; R. W. Withers, 1905.

JACKSONVILLE MEETING

Inman P. Crutchfield, 1914; R. P. Daniel, 1901;
Henry W. Dew, 1911; H. B. Fozzard, 1929; R. L.
Frink, 1910; G. C. Gibbs, 1903; L. D. Howell, 1905;
Rhydon C. Latham, 1928; C. R. Lichliter, 1925; H.
M. Mabry, 1930; H. Fletcher Martin, 1915; S. M.
Mathews, 1910; M. H. Myerson, 1910; Reuben Rag-
land, 1909; Montague Rosenberg, 1930; ‘Tiley H. Sco-
vell, 1918; G. W. Thames, 1929; J. I. Triplett, 1909;
Herman S. Ulmer, 1915; F. M. Valz, 1911; Harry
M. Wilson, 1929; W. E. Wilson, 1931; D. G. Yerkes,
1912; G. L. Warthen, 1929; Robert Cleveland: L. Y.
Foote, 1930.

[ 20 |

 

‘ penne pe ~~

Te

ee ae ae ee | RR

Tri-State, Ashland, Ky.

THE Tri-State Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation had its second meeting of the year on Wash-
ington’s birthday at the Ventura Hotel in Ashland, at
which the following men were present:

Philip P. Gibso, Lee Beuhring, John McVay,
George Keller, Dr. L. W. Gilkison, Jr., Judge I. P.
Baer, J. W. Fitchett, of Huntington, West Virginia;
Wendell Mann, John Slagle, Emmett MacCorkle, and
Dr. k. W. MacCorkle, of Ashland, Kentucky, and Nick
Kline, of Greenup, Kentucky.

The addresses of the evening were delivered by
Philip P. Gibson and Wendell Mann, followed by a
short speech from each man present.

A committee was appointed to act as an Executive
Committee, with authority to handle any matters of
business to come before the organization with special
reference to the handling of a fund already made up
from the members, as well as any monies that might
be later collected.

Wendell Mann was elected chairman of the Ex-
ecutive Committee, and the other members are P. P.
Gibson, Joe Fitchett and Dr. MacCorkle.

Perhaps the most important result of the meeting
will be in the responsibility this association feels to-
ward securing proper student material from this sec-
tion for the University.

icin
Vv

New York Dinner Dance

THE WASHINGTON AND LeE Alumni of Northern
New Jersey, New York and nearby Connecticut held
Second Annual Dinner Dance on March 9th.

IN ADDITION to the Stag Dinner given in the fall,
the Alumni have adopted the practice of holding a
Dinner Dance at which the ladies are included.

This year’s function was held at the Hotel St.
Regis. At 9 o'clock the party began to assemble
in the Egyptian Room of the hotel, where cock-
tails and a variety of elaborate and delicious can-
apes and hors d'oeuvres were served. This part of the
program and the pleasure of meeting and greeting the
constantly arriving friends and guests proved so de-
lightful that it was with difficulty that those present
were guided to the “Seaglades” for “Dinner” at 10:30.

There, dancing to the music of Vincent Lopez’
orchestra proved such an attraction that the delicious
dinner served to the party hardly received the atten-
tion that it deserved.

A brief but highly diverting entertainment was fur-
nished by an unusually talented couple of professional
dancers. The “Swing” rendered several times during
the evening received vociferous applause each time.

I

a A ee 4a ae Ae ee

About a half hour after the orchestra left and
the room was officially closed, the party reluctantly
broke up, with the generally expressed anticipation of
a repetition next year. Those present included:

EK. W. Lee, 713; G. C. Walters, ’27; H. B. Bu-
sold, 28; William Farrar Jr., 19; John Hoffman, °33;
James A. Lee, 17; William A. Gibbons Jr., ’21; Wil-
liam J. Cox, “17; Hugh R. Hawthorne, ’10; Leigh Bul-
lock, °25; E. W. Poindexter, ’20; E. Valentine, ’26;
Raymond Smith, ‘20; C. W. MeNitt, "17; Lewis Tyree,
"15; Wentworth Field Myers, ’20; H. C. Robert, ’33;
M. Smith, ’31; John Drye, ’20; M. B. Rogers, ’15;
Harry H. Newberry, ‘29; William Owen, ’28; R. P.
Stevenson, ’29; Ethan ‘Kid’ Allen, ’29; T. G. Gib-
son, ‘29; H. W. Smith, ’30; H. Walton, ’°32; H. Don-
aldson, ’30; J. B. Powell, 17; Paul Bock, ’24; E. S.
Marshall, °17.

sy

Bristol, Tenn.

‘THERE 1S NO local association more active and
alive and better organized than the one in Bristol,
Tenn. When they have an alumni meeting the papers
practically get out a special edition and publicity on the
event seems to dominate everything else in their local
papers. A sheaf of clippings result.

The semi-annual meeting of the Appalachian
Alumni Association, as it is called, was held at the
Hotel Bristol on March 2nd, and there was a dinner
followed by a dance. Dr. Tucker represented the Uni-
versity. A summary of his report follows:

“The Honor System and the high level of student
relation and conduct have been maintained intact.

“The scholastic standards of the University have
materially advanced beyond those of a decade ago.

“A brief analysis of the present-day student shows
him to be less industrious and not so definite as to
purpose and ambition as the student of a generation
ago, but at the same time, he is more inquisitive, more
resourceful, and generally better prepared scholastically.

“The University has resisted the infection of
numbers, resulting in incomparable advantages over
universities with huge student enrollment; chief among
these advantages being a closer cultural contact.

“Development along internal lines has strikingly
advanced. Chief among these improvements are the
extension of selective admission; psychological and
achievement tests and sectioning according to ability;
provisions for more careful guidance of the student
in his college work, as indicated by the creation of
the office of the dean of students, the organization of
a freshman camp, the institution of freshman orien-
tation week and freshman assemblies, the system of
faculty advisers, and the establishment of a special

[| <1 |

. Bee A ee oe

I

Mon GG ma 2 Ee Ee Se

 

freshman year with a view to aid the new student to
find himself in the complexities of the college curricula
and to make a more intelligent choice of courses of
studies directed toward specialization in later years.

“Requirements for graduation have been advanc-
ed. The former requirement for a D average for grad-
uation has been raised to that of C, and the comple-
tion of thirty-six hours of junior-senior courses is
now a prerequisite to receipt of a degree.

“A better gradation of work has resulted from the
elimination of the former system of teaching students
of varying abilities indiscriminately in the same classes.

“Increased emphasis has been placed on methods
of instruction including greater use of the discussion,
problem and seminar methods in many courses.

“Marked improvement is manifest in social life,
especially with regard to fraternities and freshman life
in the dormitories.

“Finally, the University has been knit into a more
closely integrated unit, with the elimination of unnec-
essary courses and with work limited to what can be
thoroughly and effectively accomplished.”

James M. Barker, Jr., retired from the presidency
of the association, which he had had for two years.
Hagan Minnick and Graham Morison, both of Bristol,
were elected president and secretary. The association
voted to meet annually hereafter on Washington's
birthday in 1935 and Lee’s birthday in 1936.

Among those present were:

From Bristol: Henry N. Barker, ’14; J. M. Bar-
ker, 11; Homer A. Jones, 17; Herbert A. Peters, ’17;
J. W. Davis, ’30; D. T. Stant, 09; J. W. Wright, Jr.,
‘29; Hagan Minnick, ’24; H. G. Morison, ’32; W. G.
Werth, 713; Owen Wood, ’25; A. C. Crymble, 718; B.
L. Snipes, ’26; Clarence M. C. Burns, ’01, Lebanon ;
Allen H. Wofford, ’33, Johnson City; Marion S$. San-
ders, 17, Wytheville; Judge A. G. Lively, 12, Leba-
non; Fred C. Parks, ’21, Abingdon; Albert C. Smelt-
zer, 29, Abingdon; I. M. Quillen, ’24, Lebanon, and
Bob London, Jr., ’26, Johnson City.

Greensboro, N. C.

THE WASHINGTON AND L¥E Piedmont Alumni
Association had its first and organization meeting at a
supper on the roof of the Jefferson Hotel.

 

Dr. Henry Lewis Smith, President Emeritus of
Washington and Lee, now a resident of Greensboro,
was the guest of honor. He spoke of recent changes at
the University.

Larry Wilson, of Greensboro, was elected presi-
dent; Richard P. Carter, of Greensboro, was elected
vice-president; J. D. Rogers, Jr., vice-president of the

High Point delegation; Robert A. Merritt, secretary ;
and Guy Laughon, treasurer.

The following standing committees were named
by the president : Membership—Chairman, D, Newton
Farnell, Jr.; Dr. Charles F. Myers, and J. M. Wood-
cock, of High Point. Scholarship—Chairman, Harry
Spiers; Dr. Henry Louis Smith, B. B. Bouldon. Pro-
gram—Chairman, Mayor Roger W. Harrison; Clar-
ence Woods, Maurice Ballard. University relations—
Chairman, Phillip H. Price; Macon C. Crocker, Joseph
I. Britton.

ate
Vv

Graduates 40 Years Ago Reunite

On May 11 to 13 there will be a reunion of
Washington and Lee alumni who were members of
the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity forty years ago. Their
headquarters will be with the Misses Barclay on Lee
avenue. These men have been closely identified with
the town and are as follows:

E. Waring Wilson, Philadelphia, who will visit
Miss Annie White.

Edward Asberry O’ Neal, Chicago, who was stroke
of the Harry Lee crew.

T. Kennedy Helm, Louisville, coxswain of the
Harry Lee, three years.

Rees Turpin, Kansas City, who married Miss
Mary Quarles of Lexington.

Frank A. Nelson, Chattanooga, who married Miss
I‘lizabeth Ross of Lexington and who is the only son
of the late Professor Alex Nelson of Washington
and Lee.

Braden Vandeventer, attorney, Norfolk.

Henry Anderson, attorney, Richmond.

James N. Veech, Louisville, who married Miss
Agnes Ross of Lexington and who is the father of

Alexander Veech of the faculty of Washington and Lee. ~

Ran Preston, Washington, department of justice.

S. W. Frierson, Florence, Ala.

Hale Houston, of the faculty, Washington and
Lee, Lexington.

William Reynolds Vance, for many years a mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee faculty and now with
Yale University.

James Quarles, Washington, who is a son of the
late Dr. James Quarles and formerly a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty.

John W. Davis, New York City, a member of the
Washington and Lee board and a former member of
the Washington and Lee faculty.

Ross McCain, president of the Aetna Life In-
surance company of Hartford—From the County

News of April 26th.

[ 22 ]

 

—% _
T.

¢ vat ih” pti se Si

a & bom N

Class

1933—JeERrY I'RAMPTOM is practicing law in Baltimore.

1933—F rep Cook is a Fellow in Chemistry at the
University of Tennessee in Knoxville, and will receive
his Master’s Degree at the end of the summer.

1932—Dona.p S. Hosterrer, assistant football coach
at Washington and Lee last year and coach of Iresh-
men football, is with C. C. C. Camp No. 1, Company
322 at Edinburg, Va., as Camp Educational Advisor.
He will supervise the educational program at the camp,
more especially along vocational lines.

1932—The Herald Tribune prints this story of hero-
ism: ‘James Periera, six years old, of 307 East T'wen-
ty-seventh Street, tumbled through a hole yesterday
in a rotting pier at T'wenty-sixth Street and the Kast
River. His mother, Mrs. Felix Herrera, saw him
vanish and flung herself upon the pier at the edge of
the hole, screaming for help.

“The outcry was heard by Frederick W. Taylor
and Walker Wemyss, salesmen for the Studebaker Au-
tomobile Corporation of 1751 Broadway, who were
demonstrating one of the new models for a prospective
customer, about a half a block from the pier. Fol-
lowed by their prospect, the two salesmen raced out
on the pier, learned what was wrong and lowered
themselves through the hole into the water, tearing
their clothes on the way.

“The prospective customer remained on the pier,
trying to calm Mrs. Herrera, who herself was in dan-
ger, in her paroxyms of grief, of falling through one
of the numerous holes in the pier.

‘The two swimmers caught a glimpse of the body
as soon as they had shaken the water out of their eyes.
He had been swept beneath an adjoining pier. The
tide, drawing in around the end of the pier, formed
an eddy which they had to cross to reach him and before
they could breast the current, he had vanished beneath
the surface.

“By that time Wemyss was almost exhausted by his
efforts and Taylor had to help support him as he
fought the tide, trying to get back to the pier they had
left. Several men had congregated on the wharf and
off it lay a boat manned by employees of the New
York Yacht Club. The boatmen helped the two swim-
mers ashore and an interne was called from Bellevue
Hospital, whose windows overlook the pier.

“The physician treated both Wemyss and Mrs.
Herrera. The man who was thinking of buying a car
and had been treated to a much more extensive dem-

I

Mm A S&S A 2 2 ee

Notes

onstration than he had expected, hung around until
assured that the two salesmen were all right, and then
made his own way home. Wemyss and Taylor, their
clothing bedraggled and torn, followed soon after-
ward.

‘Wemyss is twenty-four years old and lives at 113-
18 201st Street, Hollis, Queens. He used to play on
the football team of Washington and Lee University.

‘Taylor, who used to play on the Duke University
team, is twenty-six years old and lives at 106 West
Sixty-ninth Street. :

“The body of James Periera was recovered by the
police.”
1932—Co.L_etr Henry Muncer, Jr., B.S., °32, was
married to Miss Katherine Boothe Jenkins, on Tues-
day evening, April 17th, at Atlanta.

1932—Letter from Herpert Dotvanire, II: John W.
McClure, Jr., B.S. Commerce, 1932, of Memphis will
be married in early fall to Miss Charlotte Virginia Lee
of Cumberland, Maryland. While at Washington and
Lee Mc was a prominent member of the Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity and is now connected with the Hard-
wood Manufacturers Institute in Memphis where his
home address is 65 East Parkway, North.

Wm. C. Sugg, B.A. 1930, LL.B. 1931, of Fayette-
ville, Tenn., was married not so long ago to Miss Lucile
Hiller of Fayetteville, and is living in Nashville.

Day Sugg, B.A. 1931, is at West Tennessee Teach-
ers College in Murfreesboro, Tenn.

Franklin Ward, Jr., B.A. 1925, of Memphis and
Winona, Miss., was by to see me the other day and he
is enjoying a good business in the stock and bond
world.

H. W. Carson, LL.B. 1933, of Montgomery, West
Virginia, writes that he is now a junior member of
the law firm of Montgomery and Vickers.

R. E. deMontluzin, 1929, of New Orleans is now
connected with the Commercial Credit Co. in Jackson,
Mississippi.

Cliff Hemming, 1931, of Meridian, Miss., is still
connected with the Meridian office of the Sturges Com-
pany, feed manufacturers.

Felix Lann, Jr., 1911, and Houston Gilleylen, 1912,
of Aberdeen, Miss., are enjoying good business and
say that the outlook for the spring crop is most en-
couraging.

Wallace Beard, 1929, is now with the Texas Com-
pany in Laurel, Miss.

Harvey Pride, 1934, of Decatur, Ala., is now in

[ 23 ]

A ££. OU ml

I

MAG. A. 2 3 ae

 

 

Herbert Grant Jahncke, 1930,
Alumni Trustee

Florence, Ala., is in charge of a Goodyear Service
Station there.

1931—Ltoyp A. Myers, 516 Pennsylvania Avenue,
Bristol, Tenn., is with the Black Diamond ‘Trailer Co.,
offices in Bristol, Lynchburg, and Huntington.

 

1930—HERBERT JAHNCKE of New Orleans, class-agent
for 1930 and member of the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees, and Miss Margaret Henriques of New Orleans
set the 30th of April for their wedding day.

1930—McGuee Harvey, Bos Wrtitams, KERR
LAIRD, and Birt SHEPHERD are in Johns Hopkins
Medical School. Bitty Hoyr is taking graduate work
in History there.

1930—J. W. Davis is now with the Asheville Citizen,
Asheville, N. C.

1930—RicHarp C. AMMERMAN, 5 Avenue de |’Opera,
is practicing law in Paris with his uncle, a prominent
resident of the French Capital. He is the defending
lawyer in the international case of Mr. and Mrs. Switz,
Americans accused of espionage.

1930—Howarp B. Busotp, 301 Main street, Orange,
N. J., writes pleasantly, with news:

“I have some news for you about some of our
Alumni. I see Herb Winston, ’31, quite often. Herb is
married and living at 280 Central avenue, Orange. He
has become quite a politician and is the president and
motivating factor in the Young Republicans’ Club of

West Orange. Ralph Lynn, ’29, is associated in the
practice of law with the office of Fred Schenk. Fred
M. Pearse, ’31, and George S. Pearse, his brother, are
practicing law with their father in Newark and have
opened an office in Metuchen, (where they live) as
George told me, ‘just for fun.’ Emil Sadloch is with
the firm of DeGraw & Murray in Newark. Nicholas
‘Shorty’ Attria, ‘28, is practicing medicine ‘some-
where in Connecticut.’ I met ‘Bill’ Gordon, *30, down
at the court house at the opening of the last term. He
told me that he was reporting for the Newark Star-
Eagle. Robert H. ‘Bunny’ Brundage, 31, is studying
medicine at the Anderson School of Medicine, Glas-
gow, Scotland, and his brother, who is considered one
of the biggest lawyers in town, tells me that ‘Bunny’
would like to correspond with some of the boys. Hey-
wood F. Day is an interne in a hospital in Plainfield,
according to Jim Castner, when I saw him in Newark
a couple of weeks ago. Page Tredway, Jr., ’30, of
Little Falls, is still the brains behind the Chase Na-
tional Bank, even though the Senate had everybody
else on the ‘pan.’

“On Friday, March 9th, I went over to the St.
Regis to the annual dinner of the New York alumni.
[I had a grand time. In our party were G. Carlton Wal-
ters and his wife, Jimmy Valentine from Lexington,
and John Hoffman, ’33. Incidentally, Walters is con-
nected with the Great American Insurance company as
a member of the legal staff. He and I have great times
at the monthly luncheons down at Planters Restaurant.
[ was happy to meet Ethan ‘Kid’ Allen, who told me
he was practicing law in New York City, Bill Owen,
ee Bullard, and Frank Smith.”

1928—Howarp B. Busorp has opened an office for
the general practice of law at 301 Main St., Orange,
N. J., Room 14, Main and Day Bldg.

1928—Joun L. Lancaster of Dallas, Texas, oldest son
of the president of the Texas and Pacific Railway, was
married April 19, to Miss Loretta Delaney of Dallas.
Friends of John in New Orleans sent a clipping from
the paper there showing a photograph of him and his
bride in his father’s private car on their honeymoon,
en route to Cuba, Panama, and other southern tropical
places. When interviewed in New Orleans he re-
members his Washington and Lee friends among them
particularly Melvin Boyd, john Stafford and Ike Sewell.

1927—Emrrson T. (Curty) Sanpers of Durham,
N. C., is Democratic candidate for prosecuting attorney
of Durham County, in the primary on June 2.

1926—B. I. SNIPEs is now in Bristol, Tenn.

1925—VrERNOoN Bipp_r, famous dancer, was at the

[ 24 |

Tea AL eee IN

Miami-Biltmore at Coral Gables this winter and was
giving an exhibition with his partner, Harriet Caper-
ton, during the entertainment at that resort given to
Dr. Gaines and Cy Young on their Florida trip. Last
summer he was selected by Irene Castle, when she re-
turned after long retirement, to dance in Chicago for
benefit of charity, as her partner. His recent engage-
ment was at the St. Regis, New York City, with Har-
riet Caperton, also of Richmond, Va.

1924—Jrssr Tow is president of the American White
Cross Laboratories, Inc., Cape Girardeau, Mo.

1924—Cnar-es Le1cu Ritty has been awarded a fel-
lowship “for study in the field of humanities” by the
General Education Board. Mr. Riley is the son of the
late Professor Franklin 1. Riley of the Department of
History at Washington and Lee University.

1923—-FraANK I,. Bowers is assistant superintendent of
the Drexel Knitting Mills, Drexel, N. C.

1923—S. SAUNDERS GUERRANT, JR., is with the Mutual
life Insurance Co. of New York, offices at 603 Liberty
Trust Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

1922—Hrenry McQuEEN (HEINE) Corserr, formerly
in the banking business at Raleigh, N. C., is now presi-
dent of the Citizens Trust Co., Toledo, Ohio.

1922 —Jimmik& CRANFORD is assistant vice-president of
the Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, Florida.

1921—J. Lanpsay PaTreN is rector of St. John’s
Episcopal Church, 14th and Arrowhead, San Ber-
nardino, Calif.

1921—*X” Parsons, class-agent for 1921, for nearly
seven years assistant United States district attorney
for the Western District of Virginia, has returned to
the private practice of law. X Parsons is president of
the Roanoke Bar Association and member of the firm
of Showalter, Parsons, Kuyk, and Coleman.

1920—Jupcr Joun Worth Kern, A.B., Washington
and Lee, 1920, LL.B., Harvard, ’23, has filed his can-
didacy for the Democratic nomination for Mayor of
Indianapolis, Ind., and established headquarters at 532
State Life Bldg., Indianapolis.

1918—B. F. Trivar of Emporia, Va., vice-president
and assistant treasurer of W. T. Tillar Co., wholesale
and retail hardware company, “Leaders in Farm Ma-
chinery”, has been elected president of the Virginia
Retail Hardware Association, and will go as state del-
egate to the National Retail Hardware Association
meeting in Des Moines, Iowa, June 18-21.

1918—A. C. CryMBLE is with the Tennessee Eastman
Corporation, Kingsport, Tenn.

I

Me A Be i ee ee

 

Bunny Whitlock, 1927, and his son
Pete at Palm Beach. Eight feet and
over are the sail fish.

1917—M. S. Sanp_Ers is doing consulting engineering
work and lives at Wytheville, Va.

1917—I asked Bitty Cox, class-agent, professor of
Ingineering Mechanics, Sheffield Scientific School,
Yale University to record his Washington and Lee
genealogy. I quote him:

“Now with respect to my Washington and Lee
ancestry, which I promised to send you when I could
get it straightened out. I am the son of Berkeley Cox
(No. 3426). He married the daughter of William F.
Junkin (No. 1485). He, in turn, married the daugh-
ter of Francis T. Anderson (No. 811). Judge Ander-
son married the daughter of Andrew Alexander (No.
54). So my brother Berkeley and I are the fifth suc-
cessive generation of Washington and Lee men, descent
being always on the maternal side except in the case
of my father. Among my uncles of various degrees
are my father’s brother, Custis Lee Cox (No. 3678),
my grandmother’s brother, William A. Anderson (No.
1755), and farther back, John Alexander (No. 154),
Archibald Alexander (No. 53) and doubtless others.
My cousins among the Alexanders, Ayletts, Ander-
sons, Junkins and Berkeleys are too numerous to think
about. In addition, my great-grandfather, George
Junkin, was president of Washington College.”

[ 25 ]

1. oe r tee, Voges Cee” ee

This particular interest was awakened by the ar-
ticle in the January Alumni Magazine on “Family Re-
lationship at Washington and Lee.” I invite correspon-
dence and data from all who can qualify. H.K. Y.

1916—Lyncu CuristTIAN is head of the Imperial Coal
Sales Co., general offices, Lynchburg, Va.

1915—J. LawreNcE Howerron and Mrs. Hower-
ton with the other members of their bridge team from
Anniston, Alabama, represented the Southern Region
in the National Bridge League Tournament in New
York in January. The Anniston team earned the
honor after capturing the regional championship in
Atlanta in December. They were eliminated in the
quarter finals of the New York rounds by the team of
Ely Culbertson and Theodore Lightner, nationally
known bridge experts.

Another Washington and lee man, COMMANDER
WINFIELD Liccert, whose skill at bridge is known the
country over, was entered in the final rounds of the
New York tournament.

1915—Josern W. Honces, we are informed reliably,
will be the next Governor of New Mexico.

1914—For the first time in its history, the Interna-
tional Relations Club was addressed by an alumnus
of the University, when Francis MiLier, member of
the class of 1914, spoke here.

Mr. Miller, a native of Rockbridge County, is
secretary of the World Christian Student Federation
and has traveled through most of the countries of the
world carrying on the work of this organization. He is
also a lecturer on International Relations at Yale Uni-
versity, and went direct to New Haven following the
meeting here.

He studied at Oxford University in England as a
Rhodes scholar, and served in the World War. Since
that time, he has devoted his time to travel and study
of the social and political problems of world affairs,
placing special emphasis on their relationship to stu-
dents.

With his wife, the former Miss Helen Hall, herself
a doctor of philosophy, Mr. Miller is the author of
“Giant of the Western World”, a survey of North
America from the standpoint of the internationalist.
Deprecating a popular prediction, Mr. Miller said :
“The United States and Japan will not go to war with
each other for the simple reason that neither country
wants war, and because neither country would gain
by it. The only possible reason for armed conflict be-
tween the two nations would be a protest by the United
States against Japan’s violation of nearly all the treaties
made since the World War. In the past three years,

I

 

MAGaA24#tli# i $=

Japan has already done that, and the United States
has done nothing.”

1914—For the past eleven years JuNIuS B. POWELL
has been in the banking business and is now with
Spencer, Trask and Co., 25 Broad St., New York City.
During his first year in New York
Powell was a clerk with the Guar-
anty Trust Company of New York.
From 1922 to 1926 he was an in-
vestment trust officer and assistant
manager of the Bond Department
of the Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co., Winston-Salem, N. C. He left
North Carolina and went to Chi-
cago as manager of the municipal
department in that city of the Guaranty Co., of New
York. In 1928 he became assistant manager of the
Bond Department of the Guaranty Co., remaining with
that organization for one year.

Powell was graduated from the Officers Training
School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, in 1917, and
served overseas as a lieutenant in the Fifth Division.
He returned to the United States in September, 1918,
to become instructor in trench mortars to the Thirteenth
Division at Camp Lewis, Tacoma, Wash., serving in
that capacity until the Armistices

In 1922 Powell was married to Miss Julia Man-
ning of Raleigh, N. C., daughter of a former supreme
court justice of North Carolina, and attorney general,
J. S. Manning. They have a daughter, Julia Manning
Powell. Powell is a member of the Columbia Uni-
versity Club, and the Downtown Athletic Club.

1914—Dr. Wittt1AmM Mosety Brown (B.A., ‘14,
M.A., °15, Ph.D. Columbia) has been elected grand
master of Masons in the Commonwealth of Virginia
in their 156th annual Communication.

1913—One of the original law books from the library
of Francis Scott Key, author of “The Star Spangled
Banner,” containing his bookplate, has been presented
to the Roger Brooke ‘Taney Home, Frederick, as a gift
to the collection of mementoes in the Key room of the
home.

Back of the presentation is a story that tells of
thousands of miles of ‘‘wandering” that the volume
has taken in the course of 190 years. Its last trip, cov-
ering several thousand miles, was from Arizona this
week to Frederick, the burial place of the author of
the anthem. ,

State Senator Alpheus H. Favour, of Prescott,
Ariz., was the donor of the volume, an English law
book known as Viner’s “General Abridgement of Law
and Equity.” Senator Favour, a member of the Amer-
ican Bar Association, recently offered to present the

[ 26 |

5 A

 

tT ee as. jk meee aN

book to the local shrine for the Francis Scott Key
collection.

The volume was written by the British barrister,
Charles Viner, and was dedicated to Lord Chief Jus-
tice John Wiles, was printed in London in 1743 and
weighs over five pounds.

Edward S. Delaplaine, president of the Taney
Home Association, has received a letter from Senator
Favour telling the history of the book. For many years
it was owned by Charles B. Ward, a former member
of the State Senate of Colorado, now living in Phoe-
nix, Ariz. Some years ago the Colorado Senator pre-
sented the book to the Arizona Senator, they being
personal friends and members of the Colorado River
Commission, and it was sent by him to Frederick.

The bookplate of Key is very modest, containing
the simple inscription: “F. S. Key, Georgetown—Co-
lumbia.”” Key resided in Frederick in his early years
and later located for the practice of law in Georgetown.

1912—In a contest that commanded national attention,
JARED YOUNG SANDERS, JR., a student of the University
in 1912, was elected to Congress from the Sixth Louis-
iana District, defeating the candidates sponsored by
Senator Huey Long. ‘The election of Mr. Sanders is
regarded as a significant set-back to the political power
of the Long forces.

1911—Nep GRAHAM’s appointment as postmaster at
Lexington has recently been confirmed by the Senate.
He and his staff of efficient and agreeable men serve
this community, the University and the Alumni Office
in a manner that is hereby acknowledged with much
appreciation.

1910—Carey Jonnson of Richmond has the contract
for the big job under C. W. A. in progress at ¥. M. I.
—$360,000, reported in the last issue of this magazine.
The big part of the job is a new Mess Hall and struc-
tural changes in the Chemistry building, making it
modern and well-equipped. CArEy JOHNSON there-
fore becomes a resident in Lexington again temporarily.

1910—LaurENCE C. WITTEN was toastmaster at the
Tenth Annual Dinner of the City Charter Committee
of Cincinnati, the Citizen’s Committee that rid the
city of graft, scandal, the corrupt and costly burden of
the “boss” and is responsible for the incomparably
good state of model government in that municipality
now. Cincinnati shines as a model to all American
cities. The toastmaster in his introductory remarks
said : ‘We speak of fine municipal services rendered, of
vast sums saved, of efficiencies established, but in none
of these is the chief success of ‘the best governed city’.
These are the products of the new machinery. Let us
salute rather the powers? What is power? It is the

I

So A @ aA SS eee

idealism, the righteousness and faith of the average
citizen. In him is the power by which this surpassing
machinery has been going on these eight years. On
election day, he marches in his might. He votes his
idealism, his righteousness, and his faith.

“Here we have a phenomenon of politics: A citi-
zenship that can sustain an ideal for eight or ten years.
We have demonstrated the almighty power that may be
in an ideal carried by plain citizens.”

1910—Jupcr W. H. SmarueErs, Atlantic City, N. J.,
is a candidate for the State Senate.

1908—STATE-SENATOR ABRAM P. Stapces of Roanoke
has been named by Governor George C. Peery as at-
torney general of Virginia, succeeding the late John R.
Saunders. Under the appointment Senator Staples will
serve in his new post until 30 days after the next gen-
eral assembly convenes. The assembly will then elect
to fill the unexpired term of Attorney General Saun-
ders, which will end in 1938. The new attorney general
was born in Martinsville, Va., Sept. 18, 1885, the son
of Abram Penn Staples and Sallie Hunt Staples. Later
the family moved to Lexington when Judge Staples
became a professor in the Washington and Lee Law
School. Both his A.B. and LL.B. degrees were re-
ceived at Washington and Lee, where he was a-mem-
ber of the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity, Phi Delta Phi
law fraternity and Ribbon societies.

Senator Staples was president of the Roanoke Bar
association in 1923-24 and received the unanimous en-
dorsement of the supreme court in January 1924. Four
years later he was elected to the state senate and soon
obtained a place on such prominent committees as
steering, finance, roads, privileges and elections, coun-
ties, cities and towns, and general laws.

Front page news made by Mr. Staples with the
help of Senator Wickham. A motion by Senator A.
P. STAPLES to discharge the senate finance committee
from further consideration of the governor's tax bill
of which he is patron threw the ordinarily sedate sen-
ate of Virginia into a turmoil such as its older mem-
bers do not recall since the prohibition debates in 1914.

Senator W. A. Garrett of Henry, chairman of
the finance committee, was at once on his feet to de-
nounce the motion to discharge his committee as “out-
rageous.” For an hour charges flew thick and fast of
broken faith and unkept promises, of “outrageous ac-
tions,” and “extreme discourtesy,” of an affront to the
governor and of a deliberate attempt to smother tax leg-
islation in committee. At the heat of the debate, the
venerable SENATOR HEeNry T. Wickuam, 1868, of
Hanover, and Senator John A. Lesner of Norfolk,
leaning heavily on his cane, engaged in a verbal alterca-
tion so bitter and so heated that Sergeant-at-Arms A. B.

[ 27 |

a. A sds A) ae

I

M A G A.Z 1 Rae

 

Davies, of the senate, moved between them, while the
packed gallery came to their feet.

1905—T He Rev. Rosert A. LaApsLey, JR., pastor
First Presbyterian Church of Roanoke, class-agent
for 1905, suffered the loss of his father recently. Dr.
Lapsley senior was 75 years old, widely known and
beloved minister of the Presbyterian church. For the
past twelve years, he was editor of the publications of
the Southern Presbyterian church in Richmond. He
left a large family of six sons, three sisters, and two
brothers.

1904—Matuew TT. McCrurg, acting dean of the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences of the University of
Illinois for the past year, has just been elected Dean
of the Liberal Arts and Sciences of the University.
Dean McClure is a native Virginian from Spottswood
and took his doctorate at Columbia in 1913. He was
professor of Philosophy at Tulane until 1921, when he
was called to the University of Illinois, and in 1926
was made head of the department of Philosophy.

Also at the University of Illinois are two other
alumni of Washington and Lee, H. V. Canter, 1896,
professor of Classics, and P. V. Converse, 1913, asso-
ciate professor of Commerce.

1901—Marruew Pace Anprews, 849 Park Ave.,
Baltimore, Md., Chairman, History Committee, George
Washington Bicentennial Celebration of Baltimore
City, with additional responsibilities in the national
plans for the celebration of Maryland State Tercenten-
ary, writing about other matters, has this to say which
will be interesting to all:

“| It may interest you to know that I have a
paper to prepare on the Separation of Church and
State in Maryland which I shall present or read to the
American Catholic Historical Association, meeting
jointly with the American Historical Association and
other historical groups in Washington next December.
This new volume on a definite period, ‘The Founding
of Maryland,’ is attracting more attention, apparently
every day. It certainly rips out of the ancient settings
the previous interpretations of early Maryland history
and, in some measure, the British origins. However,
I am anxious to start on the Old Dominion!”

Mr. Andrews, in his correspondence with old
friends of his class, makes a boast. If any one, in his
class, or older, decides to challenge it, let the invitation
come through The Alumni Magazine, please.

“With regard to your postscript anent ‘red ink’
on the Washington and Lee bulletin board and your
comment about my not ‘having as much red blood
as thirty years ago,’ just pick out some youngster down
there in Texas and send him up here to me for an en-

——

durance contest in tennis and see what happens. A
year or two ago I played the national boy champion
indoors and out, and after we had thrashed over the
matter for 67 games, I outwinded him and he col-
lapsed after the final game in the third set. In other
words, after all that struggle I was two games ahead
in the three sets. I then went on and played three sets
of deuce doubles, whereupon my partner nearly col-
lapsed, he being quite old, having graduated from Johns
Hopkins three years before. I then came in, got some-
thing to eat, and went to the Country Club and danced
until twelve o’clock, coming in to work until two a. m.
—so send along your youngsters, perhaps half a dozen
of them. I rarely play more than 85 games in one af-
ternoon but I can go further if necessary.”

1899—Harry St. GEorGE TucKER CARMICHAEL has
been re-elected director, vice-president and general
manager of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co. of Kyrock,
Ky., miners and distributors of “Kyrock’’ (rock as-
phalt) for roads. Anybody wanting roads (public or
private roads for country and suburban estates) or in
a position to influence the selection of material and
construction of roads, should write Mr. Carmichael
for booklets, information and friendly advice. Wash-
ington Street, our arterial roadway to the campus, has
had a new surface of Kyrock, put on with incredible
speed and ease and with almost no interruption of
traffic.

1898—RicHarp W. FLournoy, JR., attended a meet-
ing of the Research Committee in International Law at
Harvard, in February and delivered an address on
Revision of the National Laws before the National
Council on Naturalization and Citizenship in New —
York. |

1898—J. W. ANDERSON writes: “The greater part of
my life since 1897 was spent in Latin America as Lo-
cating and Constructing Engineer of Railways, High-
ways and Old Field work. Returning to the United
States about two years ago on account of the general
depression—am at present connected with the U. S. C.
8 G. S. being carried on through the state C. W. A.
Enjoyed the last issue of the ‘Alumni’—sorry to learn”
of the recent death of Dr. Mc. White. Enjoyed hear-
ing news of several of my classmates of 1886. Have
met but few of the alumni in my travels.”

1898—FraNK NIGHSWONGER, B.L., ’89, is engaged in
the general practice of law, and serving officially as
president of the Board of Commissioners of Wichita,
Kansas. He has served several terms as Mayor of

Wichita.

1898—Epwarp A. O'NEAL, president of the American
Farm Bureau Federation, will be the principal speaker —

[ 28 ]

 

|. ee sere IN

at a two-day session conducted by the School of Com-
merce, centering upon the discussion of the economic
recovery program and the N.R.A., on May 10 and 11.

1896—Mayor Stockton Hetu Ty_er of Norfolk on
March 22 took over actively his new duties as Chair-
man of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board of the
State of Virginia, upon direct appointment from Gov-
ernor Peery. This Board, with broad powers, is to
establish a dual control system with the operation of a
state monopoly of permits for the sale of wines and
beers, provide licenses, etc.

Major Tyler’s comment upon the experiment is
that it is the only alternative as between prohibition
and unlimited sale of liquor. The success of this new
deal, he said, will depend upon how the people of Vir-
ginue construe the middle ground between these two
extremes.

1892—Dr. Rorert P. Cooke, County Health Officer
for Rockbridge County, is one of the heroes, unnamed
but well-known, in Sydney Howard’s play in New York
called “Yellow Jacket.” The drama is based upon
certain chapters in Paul de Kruif’s book “Microbe
Hunters”, the story of Dr. Walter Reed’s heroic search
for the carrier of yellow fever in Cuba in 1900. Syd-
ney Howard came to Lexington to see Dr. Cooke pre-
paratory to the collection of original sources to which
he went for supplementary and human and anecdotal
inaterial for the play. It was Dr. Cooke who lived in
the infected house at Camp Lazear for three weeks.
The play will be published by Harcourt, Brace and Co.,
of New York with an introduction by the author, com-
pleting with de Kruif’s material, the summary of
sources drawn upon for the play.

1890—-Epwin T. ComAN is president of the San Ra-

fael, California, Chamber of Commerce and district
e ‘1

manager of the American Trust Co., and manager of

the San Rafael branch.

1887—Proressor LESLIE LYLE CAMPBELL, retired, of
Cambridge, Mass., is writing a series of articles for
the Rockbridge County News that have deep and ex-
tensive interest to all the older people whose associa-
tions at Lexington and at Washington and Lee go
back to Professor Campbell’s time and previous to
that. No. 1 of this series is entitled “Some Old Cas-
tilians’”’ and occupies almost a page in the Rockbridge
County News of the 22nd of March. It is recommend-
ed that alumni, particularly those interested in the
details, communicate with the editor, who will secure
copies of the News and mail them. The material is
very rich in interest but impossible to brief and too
extensive, unfortunately, to print. The Castilians, it
should not be necessary to explain, are the historical

I

m VW ae ek: eS ee

residents of the Castle, oldest house in Lexington, be-
longing to Prof. Hale Houston.

1879—Dr. Epwarp RANDALL, American National
Insurance Bldg., Galveston, Texas, writes:

“Enclosed please find my check for $5.00 for a
subscription to the magazine. I enjoyed thoroughly
Sykes’ account of the famous baseball game in 1878.
It brought a tremendous thrill that I was one of the
participants ; being catcher on the team of the previous
year with Robinson as pitcher, close under the bat
without a mask and without gloves, I was struck on
the nose with a foul tip and knocked senseless for sev-
eral hours. Robinson was a wild erratic pitcher and
a catcher without modern protection had a hard time.

“As I recall, the University of Virginia beat us
that year by two runs, the score being 13-15. The next
year my family prohibited my playing on account of
the danger, but at the last minute I obtained permis-
sion to play second base. I never caught Sykes’ slow
curved balls. Due to the fact that I was only sixteen
years old when I caught for Robinson without any
kind of protection I have often marvelled at my cour-
age. The majority of youngsters have no fear.”

“Dr. Edward Randall, physician, builder, humani-
tarian and friend.” So the Galveston Daily News
sums up one of their distinguished citizens in a feature
article of a full page in celebration of the fiftieth an-
niversary of Dr. Randall’s consecrated life as a phy-
sician.

The occasion was made much of in Galveston and
at the University of Texas, where Dr. Randall is a
member of the Board of Regents. Biographical data
are given fully in this tribute and congratulations from
all over the country poured in upon him: the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, the Mayo Clinic, the Rockefeller
Foundation, State Universities, famous men like de
Schweinitz, and all his associates in the University of
Texas.

Dr. Randall got his M.D. from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1883, is one of the two surviving
members of the original faculty of the State Medical
College, for 32 years professor of therapeutics and
materia medica, succeeded by his son, Dr. Edward
Randall, Jr. He helped develop the college of phar-
macy and the college of nursing. For 25 years he has
been president of the John Sealy Hospital, rounding
out his interest in Galveston as a medical center.

As a builder, the list of buildings he has added
to these various plants is too long to recapitulate.

His honors and honorary connections are likewise
too long a list to recite here.

There is no one individual to whom Galveston is
more grateful nor points to with greater pride.

[ 29 ]

: ae > ee As 7 me

I

MA G A 24 1.3

 

1878—Jupcre WitiiAm H. Tay_og, vice-president of
the Canebrake Loan and ‘Trust Company of Union
Alabama, letters which
brighten the Alumni Office always. Not to us, but
to all who have the same association that he has, he

town, writes us occasional

writes affectionately.

He is among those whom Dr. Gaines calls “The Lee
Boys”. He is almost 82 now and says that he is among
those very few who are left who went to Washington
JupcE TAyLor says he saw him
last “tas he climbed the steps from his office and walked

College and saw Lee.

to the bed from which he never again rose.”
There has been a good State administration in Ala-

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN

BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

 

bama this last year and JupcE TAyLOE wrote a tribute
to the State Board of Administration upon the publi-
cation of the Board’s annual report. It brought him the
very cordial response of the friends of good govern-
ment in Alabama from all over the State.

1878—Jupce Frep CockreELt and Mrs. CocKRELL of
Abilene, Texas, recently celebrated their fiftieth wed-
There was a great ceremony of
congratulation and in the notice of the event it was
stated that Mrs. Cockrell wore as the only ornament
the medal JupGE CocKrELL had won for oratory in the
lee Society of Washington and Lee.

ding anniversary.

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid ...... 1.50
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below.
ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

If interested in the technical side

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 30 ]

) pms Fa | Sy |

I

mr ee A Oe

In Memoriam

1910

WittiAM B. Wane, 1910, died at his home in
Fullerton, California, April 6, 1934.

1887

On Aprit 4, in Washington, D. C., Deaderick
Harrell Cantrell, at the age of sixty-five, died peace-
fully in his sleep.

Mr. Cantrell was one of the best-known lawyers
in Arkansas and died suddenly of heart disease in
Washington, where he had gone to attend to business
with the Farm Credit Administration.

Mr. Cantrell was a member of the law firm of
Rose, Hemingway, Cantrell & Loughborough. He was
president of the Little Rock Railway and Electric com-
pany, and was attorney for this company after its ab-
sorption by the Arkansas Power and Light company.

He was born in Little Rock on the 14th of June,
1868, in the house built by his father, Dr. William A.
Cantrell, a pioneer resident of Little Rock.

His widow was Miss Catherine Emerich of Little
Rock, to whom he was married on the 3lst of July,
1918.

He was a devoted member of the Episcopal
church and was chancellor of the Episcopal Diocese
of Arkansas.

He was president of the Little Rock Bar Asso-
ciation and was a member of the state and national
associations.

During the war he served as state chairman of
the American Red Cross and was a member of the
Arkansas National Guard.

Both in Washington and in Little Rock numerous
tributes of devotion were paid to him and many testi-
monials of his character, achievement and distinction.

1889

On Apriv 21, at the Good Samaritan Hospital in
Lexington, Kentucky, Judge Lyman Chalkley died of
pneumonia after a week’s illness. Judge Chalkley was
professor emeritus of the University of Kentucky, after
having served for 20 years as a member of the faculty
of the College of Law.

Judge Chalkley lived at a beautiful place on the
Versailles Pike called Green Acre, where he devoted
his time after retirement in 1930 to writing and re-
search work. He was the author of the “Chalkley Pa-
pers,” which were historical research and abstracts from
the records of the famous Augusta County of Vir-
ginia. The county seat of Augusta is Staunton, but in
Colonial days it extended west as far as Michigan and
took in most of the western territory, from which later
several states were carved.

Judge Chalkley was born on the 20th of October,
1861, in Richmond, Virginia, the son of Otway Hebron
and Susan Marian Jordan Chalkley.

He graduated from the University of Virginia in
1882 and took his law degree from Washington and
Lee in 1889, then went to Columbia and the Univer-
sity of Berlin and Bonn in Germany. He first prac-
ticed law in Covington and then Staunton, Virginia.
His wife was Miss Eleanor Desha Breckinridge, the
daughter of Col. W. C. P. Breckinridge, and they were
married on the 27th of June, 1889.

He was elected by the Legislature of Virginia to
the district judgeship, which he served for six years.

He went from Virginia to Kentucky as dean of
the Law School of ‘Transylvania College, then he went
to Sewanee, where he was Dean of the Law School
for three years, returning to Kentucky in 1910 to be-
come professor of law at the University of Kentucky.

Judge Chalkley was Historian of the Episcopal
Diocese of Central Kentucky.

[ 31 ]

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee

alumni of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession

to transact business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who

by reason of specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the some profession
are invited to place their cards in the directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
1909
Adiscuancek hes Counsellor-at-Law
100 William Street Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building New York Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi € Lynchburg, Virginia
E. C. Caffrey, |
& 09 eS
Court House
Philip P. Gibson Hackensack, N. J. John H. Tucker, Jr.,
1910
Attorney-at-Law » Tucker and Mason

Marcum, Lovins and Gibson Cette D. Dethlefsen Law Offices

First National Bank Building Commercial National Bank Bldg.

4 Attorney-at-Law
Huntington, W. Va.

Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.,
14 Montgomery Street

Shreveport, Louisiana

& San Francisco, California
Elwood H. Seal © Edmund D. Campbell,
1918-1922
Seal and Dice Woodruff and Ward
Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916 Attorney-at-Law

General practice in the courts of

the District of Columbia and Wm A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Douglas, Obear and Douglas

Federal Departments Attorneys-at-Law
Associate Income Tax Specialists 928 Healey Building Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Atlanta, Georgia Washington, D. C.
<= ok

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

[ 32 |

 

 

REPORT OF CLASS CAMPAIGNS TO DATE

This report is made at the half way mark, in time—not, it is hoped, in either the number of contributors
or in amount of money.

New Contributors,

Class Contributors Contributors Amt. to Contributors 1933, not Total
1934 1934 date, 1933 vet heard Amt.
April 19 from 1933
1869 to 1874 + 4 $ 16.00
1876 3 3 40.00
*1878 ] ] $ 5.00
*1879 10.00 | 2.50
1880 l l 10.00
*1 884 ] ] 5.00 ] l 1.00
1885 l ] 2.00
1886 2 2 20.00
1888 2 2 25.00
* 1889 + 2 40.00 5 3 17.00
1890 2 ] 50.00 7 6 86.00
189] 2 2 15.00
1892 4 4 140.00
1893 9 9 71.00
1894 2 l 2.00 4 3 26.00
*1895 l l 39.00 5 4 37.00
1896 8s 8 75.00
1897 2 12.50 12 8 57.00
*1898 5 : 24.00 2 l 15.00
1899 6 3 57.00 12 9 114.00
1900 5 5 65.00
1901 Y ] 67.50 9 l 73.00
1902 6 6 31.00
1903 - 2 7 OO 9 8 98.50
1904 4 3 20.00 3 2 115.00
1905 5 13 71.00
1906 26 14 96.00 30 18 124.15
1907 4 2 9.00 6 4 51.00
1908 5 3 20.00 24 22 187.00
1909 S ] 186.00 21 14 314.00
1910 10 5 163.00 18 13 220.50
1911 14 10 50.50 13 9 143.00
1912 6 2 44.50 17 13 111.00
1913 5 4 26.00 16 15 93.50
1914 9 2 110.00 16 Y 122.00
1915 5 2 36.00 12 9 74.00
1916 6 4 25.00 9 f 45.00
*1917 22 16 157.00 1] 4 72.00
1918 2 ] 10.00 | 5.00
1919 2 l 13.00 8 7 52.00
*1920 10 7 84.50 6 3 56.00
1921 l ] 2.50 7 7 92.00
*1922 2 2 10.00 l 2.00
* 1923 7 5 50.00 2 15.00
1924 5 4 39.50 13 12 67.00
1925 l 22.50 11 10 100.00
1926 + 2 23.00 20 18 65.00
1927 13 13 51.50
1928 1] 1] 46.00
1929 z4 24 124.50
1930 2 l 15.00 10 9 65.50
1931 ll S 34.00 20 23 105.00
1932 S 8 28.50 21 21 72.00
1933 3 3 3.00 9 9 13.00
1934 ] 25.00 l 25.00
SA Te 2 2.00
Honorary degree men and
trustees 3 3 135.00
223 132 $1757.50 512 410 $3738.15

To the total of class contributions last year was added nearly $2,000 contributed by the Committee of 100
*Gains to date over 1933. for a Sponsorship Fund.

._© 1934. Liccett & Myers Tosacco Go.

 

 

 

one i a

