the |
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

. : ‘ .
~~ 4 a eo (\BBe ‘a a : "w. . ~ es 4 * a? Wr >

- a a ia . Pi - be Oe id as oe a : , '
ee Er wn ST lh

rn
ae - “iy a ae * 7 A

5 poe es 4A % "Wa ae ge

. — c > ar Pa er a ar i SS 2 : Ht — a . a - - oe ag Om
Ss /, Ae ager aw i \ oF /\ Yoo = er ; nf Ne Bok. ~~ 4 " - te
“ Re oo A i F 17-3 SP Lr a x . aN ER,” , 5 ho
/ fe ‘¥ i B Aa C7 aaa oe a ery -- |; | Av Se
= r EX — / — a / — ;

- * 7 , » =
‘ , = > ” -

™J b's

Lf

r Th rT) ~,, | = -
Sy

-

.
ba
,
f
;
a
q4
=
*

 

December 1939

 

ee en eee een eee eee eee een een ieee enn een eee ieee een eee een ee en ee een eee Te Te ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee 4

 

 

Volume I Fall 1939

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
LAW REVIEW

 

LEADING ARTICLES

Preparation for Crime as a

Criminal Attempt... . .. . . . John S. Strahorn, Jr.

Price Competition as Affected by the
{ Edward Burling, Jr.

Robinson-Patman Act a
ee eee ; William DuBose Sheldon

 

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

Published twice a year—First issue just off the press
Subscription price: $1.50 per year, 75 cents per issue

WASHINGTON AND LEE LAW REVIEW
Lexington, Virginia

Please enter my subscription to the WASHINGTON AND LEE LAw Review for one year.

Name

 

Address

 

ty hy titi phi hii i hi hi hi hi i hi i tt i tit th i ee _ b,_ y_ b_ hy_ ihy_ _ hp ih it _ _  t tt _ t _ h_ h_ h _ _ h_ _ h_ h_  _ _  h_ _ h_  _ _ h h_ _ _ h i _ e

 

 

i i i hi ii i hi hi i i hi i i i i i i i itt

 

 

Ap
Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee
Arkansas
James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia
Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland
A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road
Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House
Central Kentucky
Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee
C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois
W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company
Cincinnati, Ohio
Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Covington, Virginia
R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley
C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas
James M. Faulkner, Liberty Bank Building
Danville, Virginia
Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michi
Dr. Edward yons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast
H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream
Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,
Florida
Houston, Texas
T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky
bert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway
Memphis, Tennessee
J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia
E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
. ae Ww. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roapiilik: Virgi
Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County
W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
E. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State
J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.
R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

$2.50 a Year
Vol. XV DECEMBER 1939 No. 2
Ba oss Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor....GkorGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

#

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

PPRSMOME oi iisihiAijedss se Joseru T. Lyxes, 1909
DOT ETON Y isco c60 5.555 Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
TI i). sols. ol Sruart Moore, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carro_t Meape, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
Joun Bett Towlixt, 1929
Dr. RicHArD FowLkEs, 1915

 

Contents for December 1939

PAGE
Extra-Curricular Developments (‘The President’s Page)........ 3
Washington and Lee Inaugurates Law Review........................ 4
CREE: -OUMED CUOMO oN aio delciad iC iGleréaeTa vie cogs catdes’ iveas 5
Student Performiance Aids Charity ..................csccccssscsrcesssorceess 7
O. D. K. Observes Twenty-Fifth Anniversary.............0...0...... 9
The Troubadours, an Experiment in Self-Help...........0.000000...... 11
The Generals Turn to Winter Wats................:..:c:ccecsseeeeeeseeees 13
Ee NS ited. GRAS coi ctied cack eae eel 17

Class Notes ............ aCe aa are Ore R ut beta meek al y St cs eee a 19

 

   
    

  

= .* : ;
oe Sm

2 Pip.

os “ . S
sce : ae * :

te. = tang PG RS oe . i pn ecm te Ae hie

 

< Sie
nA Pw, e ae RESP” -(D37

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Extra-Curricular Developments
(The President's Page)

N his annual report, Dean Tucker points out that Wash-
ington and Lee is unique, so far as he knows, in that it
is the only school that within recent years has doubled its
endowment and at the same time has sharply restricted
the scope of its effort. He is saying, of course, that Wash-
ington and Lee is trying to limit the
range of its endeavor and within that
limited range do the best job possible.

*x* * *

The central energy of that effort is
and always will be the program of in-
struction. It is our ambition to provide,
within the divisions now established,
teaching that will be adequate, inspir-
ing, cooperative in eliciting fine re-
sponse. But as a sort of auxiliary to the
work of the class-room, Washington
and Lee has an uncommonly rich re-
source in the extra-curricular activities
of our boys. These agencies provide
what may be called the collaterals of knowledge, broaden
contacts, sharpen mental faculty, promote the growth of

true personality.
' . oe

It is hardly fair to single out any one of these, or any
small group of these, as worthy of mention, if to do so is
to suggest lack of vitality on the part of the others. The
series of student publications, the social groups, the va-
rious clubs organized about a given department or in ref-
erence to some specialized field of knowledge, the dramatic
club, the organization of student government itself—these
and others are in good and helpful condition. But it seems
to me that a few of these activities have evidenced un-
usual development within the last two years.

x * Ox

We on the campus are acutely aware of the new in-
terest in religious activity. The student council has been
enlarged; the programs of meetings by the boys, as well
as the progress for the boys, have been strengthened ; the
modes of expression have been pointed for greater use-
fulness. Practical charities among the needly of our com-
munity now represent an important element of the work;
affiliation of the boys with the local churches has been em-
phasized ; projections of our campus spirit have been in-

[3]

 

fluential. In this connection, it may be noted that about
thirty of our boys take part with some regularity in speak-
ing at neighboring churches.
ee. ®

Student interest in musical life and their participation
in it have been largely stimulated. For
a single glee club try-out this fall, 93
boys appeared. The band drew favor-
able commendation on all its public of-
ferings. The course in musical appre-
ciation—now enriched by a gift of the
Carnegie Corporation’s music set—is
growing in popular appeal.

ese

The vigor of the public speaking
program is a notable fact of our con-
temporary campus history. The socie-
ties, though not large, are sustained
with enthusiasm. The Forensic Union,
a new feature of the general program,
is well supported. Debating teams analyze and propound
in many college halls, and these teams include a large
number of boys rather than a limited number of the more
expert speakers. The Speakers’ Bureau furnishes gifted
student orators for all kinds of occasions in the general
environment of the University.

* * *

Special emphasis should be given to the continuing and
expanding interest in intramural activities. The press and
the milling crowds of the “big game,” and probably most
of the sports chatter of the casual public, focus attention
upon the inter-collegiate schedule. Some of our own
alumni are not well informed about this program of games
played by our boys not for a triumph or a spectacle or an
athletic prestige but for the joy of the playing and the de-
velopment represented. The variety of games is large, the
student interest runs high, and the results are gratifying.
About 80 per cent of our boys are engaged in one form or
another of these diversified sports. The need for addi-
tional space to be used for this purpose is great but we
hope in the near future to make a more adequate pro-

vision.
Prsiitie fer veH p ie

President

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Dean Moreland

Professor Light

Professor Johnson

Washington and Lee Inaugurates Law Review

N response to the recommendation of the Law Faculty,
| the Board of Trustees of the University authorized the
establishment of the Washington and Lee Law Review.
Upon the receipt of the authorization, a faculty-student
organization was formed to supervise its publication.

The organization formed consists of a Board of Stu-
dent Editors and a Board of Faculty Editors. The mem-
bers of the Student Board for this year are as follows:
William F. Saunders, Editor ; Roderick D. Coleman, Note
Editor; William S. Burns, Recent Case Editor; and
‘rank C. Bedinger, Jr., Business Manager. Other mem-
bers of the Student Board are Fred Bartenstein, Jr., Em-
ory Cox, Jr., Edwin J. Foltz, John E. Perry, Leslie D.
Price, Stanford Schewel, G. Murray Smith, Jr., and For-
rest Wall.

The Board of Faculty Editors is composed of Charles
P. Light, Jr., Editor; Theodore A. Smedley, Assistant
:ditor; and Raymon T. Johnson, Business Editor.

It was decided to issue the Review twice each school
year. The first issue appeared in December, 1939, contain-
ing 156 pages. The printing of the Review was done by
the Journalism Laboratory Press which is under the su-

perintendence of C. Harold Lauck of the University staff.

The type used is 8 and 10 point Baskerville. The size of
the publication is 6 5/8 inches by 10 inches. The cover is
white.

There are two leading articles in the first issue. The
first one is entitled, “Preparation for Crime as a Criminal
Attempt,” written by John S. Strahorn, Jr. Mr. Strahorn
is a graduate of the Washington and Lee Law School and
holds graduate degrees in law from both Harvard and
Yale Universities. He is now professor of law in the Uni-
versity of Maryland Law School. The second major ar-
ticle deals with “Price Competition as Affected by the
Robinson-Patman Act” and was written by Edward Burl-
ing, Jr., and William DuBose Sheldon. Both Mr. Burling
and Mr. Sheldon are graduates of the Harvard Law
School and are members of the District of Columbia Bar.

The Notes in the first issue of the Review deal with
Taxation of Salaries of National and State Government
Officers and Employees, Multi-State Taxation of Intang-
ibles, Tort Actions Between Persons in Domestic Rela-
tions, The Virginia Doctrine of Constructive Fraud, and
A New Development in the Law of Radio Defamation.

The Recent Cases section discusses the subjects of The

(Continued on page 6)

Fy

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

* Wahrheit und Dichtung”’

Washington and Lee Has Narrow Escape from Becoming Co-educational

Had it not been for Dr. James Lewis Howe, the author
of the accompanying articles, your wives and daughters
might also be alumni (of alumnae rather) of Wash-

ington and Lee. Though we
should be delighted to wel-
come them in this capac-
ity, to most of us, Wash-
ington and Lee and co-
education seem so mutual-
ly exclusive today that the
story told here will seem
doubly remarkable.

Since Dr. Howe is at
present official historian of
the college, we are hoping
that he will furnish a se-
ries of articles like this one
for the Atumnt Maca-
ZINE.

 

T was in the late winter or
‘arly spring of 1895. The
number of students had be-
gun to decrease from a
high-water mark for that
period of 242 in the ses-
sion of 1891-1892, and had
evidently started on the ebb
which reached a low of 139
six years later. Several of
the Board of Trustees, in-
cluding the Rector, Judge
McLaughlin, were strong-
ly in favor of opening the
doors of the institution to
women. The ostensible rea-
son was that there were in

Lexington and Rockbridge County a larger number of
young ladies anxious for a higher education than could be
furnished by the then struggling high school, but the real
thought at the bottom was to stem the tide of diminishing

By Jas. Lewis Howe

 

Professor Emeritus Jas. Lewis Howe

numbers of students, The matter had been talked over in-

[5]

vote came to me, it was tied.

formally with various members of the faculty and sev-
eral were ardently in favor of the proposition, while oth-
ers were no less strangly opposed to it.

Matters came to a head
at a faculty meeting when
Professor Hogue intro-
duced a resolution, asking
the Trustees to make the
University co-educational.
The debate waxed warm,
or more truly hot, and
sentiment was about even-
ly divided. I had come to
Washington and Lee in
January, and coming from
Kentucky I was generally
supposed to be progressive
and hence in favor of co-
education. As the youngest
member of the Faculty, as
well as the latest, I mod-
estly took no part in the
debate, but after listening
to an hour or more of
fruitless discussion I did
venture to move the pre-
vious question. This was
somewhat vociferously op-
posed by the opponents of
co-education, who believed
they were on the losing
side and desired to put off
the evil day as long as pos-
sible. However, the motion
carried by a majority of
one. A yea-and-nay vote
was called for. When the
To the surprise of most I

voted “No,” and co-education was lost, for then and ever

after (let us hope). I remember as if it were but yester-

day the look of disgust on the faces of Professor Hogue,
(Continued on page 18)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumnus Reaches Top in U. S. Navy

Apmirat C. P. Snyper on the 20th of last May com-
pleted forty-three years in the United States Navy, over
twenty-one of which were spent at sea. Concluding a tour
of duty as Commandant of Midshipmen at the United
States Naval Academy in 1931, he proceeded to sea duty,
where he commanded the battleship Tennessee, in the
Fleet for a year and a half. At the conclusion of that com-
mand, he served as Chief of Staff to Vice Admiral Prin-
gle and then to Vice Admiral Sellers, who each in turn
commanded all the battleships of the Fleet in the unit
known as Battleships, Battle Force, U. S. Fleet. He then
continued at sea for another year as Chief of Staff to Ad-
miral Sellers, the fleet’s Commander-in-Chief. In the
meantime he had been promoted to the grade of Rear Ad-
miral on March 1, 1933. In 1934, he went to Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, where he served for one year as Com-
mandant of the Navy Yard. This is the special yard for
building submarines. At the conclusion of that year he
proceeded to sea again and commanded the Sixth Division
of Heavy Cruisers of the U. S. Fleet, remaining in that
command until the first of January, 1937, upon which
date he took over the duties of President of the Naval
War College, Newport, Rhode Island. On May 27, last,
Admiral Snyder proceeded to the West coast, and took
over command of the battleships of the Battle Force of
the U. S. Fleet, and was promoted to the grade of Vice
Admiral. On January 6 he will become a full admiral and
will command the Battle Force of the U. S. Fleet.

 

Washington and Lee Law Review

(Continued from page 4)

Attractive Nuisance Doctrine, Eminent Domain, Insur-
ance, Libel and Slander, Negotiable Instruments, Dis-
missal of Actions, Tort Actions by Adopted Child against
Adoptive Parent, Conduct of Credit Agency Toward
Debtor, and Scope of Demurrer. All of the Notes and Re-
cent Case discussions were written by the members of the
Student Board previously referred to, except the Note on
Taxation of Salaries which was written by J. D. Head and
R. F. Hutcheson, Jr., members of the law class of 1939.

The first issue concludes with a review of the book,
The Tree of Liberty. This book by Elizabeth Page is
reviewed by Leonard C. Helderman, professor of history
in Washington and Lee University.

The second issue of the first volume of the Law Re-
view will appear in the second semester of the present
school year, —R. T. J.

S. 1. P. A. Convention for 1939

Tue SouTHERN INTERSCHOLASTIC PrEss ASSOCIA-
TION, sponsored by the Lee Journalism Foundation of
Washington and Lee, showed its continued growth and
influence on rising young journalists this year when it en-
tentained 324 high school boys and girls at its fifteenth
annual convention on November 3 and 4.

Several prominent speakers appears, among them Fred
W. Perkins, 1912, Washington correspondent for Scripps-
Howard. Awards were presented to schools putting out
the best papers and magazines. It was generally felt that
this was the most successful year yet in the efforts of the
organization to promote the high standards of journalism
sponsored by the Foundation.

 

Alumnus Reports on War

Tuer following letter from James Somerville, 1913,
was received at the Alumni Office and is printed here in
part for the value of what it shows about London in new-
war time:

Dear Cy:

I am afraid that things have been happening in this
part of the world at such a great rate that I have failed to
give proper attention to letters that have come from you
and Dan Owen. As these happenings seems to be occur-
ring at an increasingly faster rate, I think I had better re-
ply to your last yetter, of August 7, right now.

It is a tough situation—no question about it. But the
British people certainly seem to be as determined and as
united as any people could be, and are likely to hold their
nerve as long as anybody, in spite of these most depress-
ing blackouts. From the news of the last few days, it
would appear that we may be having regular continental
visitors in the air from now on; but prior to that, the
chief danger here in London was crossing the street at
nights. I have had considerable experience now in driving
my Chevrolet car six miles from the office in pitch dark,
aided only by a small gleam of light which stops about
twenty feet ahead of the car. I have gotten to be quite an
expert in bringing my car to stop a foot or so before it
would otherwise have hit some pedestrian who has had his
mind on something else than approaching cars. Once it
was a chap right in the middle of a broad main street,
with his arm round a girl who apparently wanted to go
one way while he wanted to go the other. That was my
narrowest squeeze, and I guess the girl must have gotten
an extra one, too!

With best personal regards, and greetings to all my
friends, 1am, Sincerely yours,

Jim SOMERVILLE.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

On the stage, reading left to right: Professors Barnes, Coleman, Moger, Nelson, Cy Young, Hinton, Bean, Jack Akin (student
leader), Hill (behind leader), Moffatt, Latture, Mr. Mattingly, Flournoy, Crenshaw.

Student Performance Aids Charity

thing more important than a mild headache, but a recent
one given out by the Washington and Lee Department of
Journalism resulted in a hilarious entertainment that drew
a thousand people and placed two hundred good American
dollars in the pockets of the American Red Cross.

It seems that this fall Richard P. Carter, as professor
of Advanced Reporting, directed Ross Hersey, 1940, to
assist C. Harold Lauck, publicity chairman of the Red
Cross, in reporting the current Red Cross subscription
drive for the two local newspapers. The student was to re-
ceive credit for this work in the form of grades on the
articles he submitted. Ross, however, decided to go far-
ther than that and to handle Red Cross publicity in a big
way. Not only would he contribute articles but he would
contribute funds. It was in this way that a grand show
called “W. and L. Z’apoppin’ ”’

Patterned, as can be seen, after the recent New York
(a variety show with abundant va-

Cc is not often that a classroom assignment produces any-

was born.

hit, “Hellzapoppin’ ”
riety), the college production was thrown together with

NI

amazing speed and presented in the Doremus Gymnasium
on the night of November 21.

It had everything—-or at least everything some re-
markably ingenious students could think of at the mo-
ment. The band, the student dance orchestra, and the
Glee Club all performed, backed up by a clowning “Ger-
man Band” and a “Barroom Quartet” for variation. A
sort of hula-hula chorus composed of four football play-
ers: Sugrue, Bishop, Baker and Justice (see accompany-
ing cut) danced in ballet costumes ; the Troubadours pre-
sented a play by Lea Booth, a senior whose articles on
sports used to appear in these columns, and a couple of
obliging young ladies from Southern Seminary warbled
current song hits. From time to time, evidently feeling
that the monotony of such performances must be broken
up, the producers introduced such side-shows as Syd
Lewis, 1940, deciding he must shave in the midst of the
performance, Bill Read of the same class singing here and
there in full evening dress and a Prince Albert, his face
frozen into an uncompromising frown; or Herb the Dog

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Football beauties, left to right: Sugrue, Hynson, Bishop,
Justice, Baker.

Man and his indeterminate canines. Then there were a
lot of other things, too, but this ought to be enough to give
you an idea.

The crowning event of the show (judging at least
from the cheers, jeers, and whistles elicited from the au-
dience) was an act called the “Faculty Frolics.” For this,
a group of faculty members whose startling beauty of
form, figure, and face you may gaze upon in the accom-
panying illustration, dressed up in ladies’ evening gowns
and engaged in a beauty contest, won by (quoting The
Ring-tum Phi) “Gypsy Rose” Mattingly. This is not to
say that Mr. Mattingly did not have pressing competition.
These girls stood it like men—or men stood it like girls as
you prefer—and all ended happily except that your secre-
tary, Cy Young, could not get his necklace off until his
wife came home to show him how!

If “W. and L. Z’apoppin’” has a successor next year
we recommend it in advance.

 

Weddings

WILLIAM HEywoop MoreELAnD, Jr., of the class of
1934, was married in Newport News, Virginia, on No-
vember 16 to Miss Vivien Roberta Currier. Mr. More-
land, who is the son of Dean Moreland of the Washing-
ton and Lee Law School, is engaged in engineering de-
sign with the Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock
Company.

Jesse R. Hayes, 1937, was married on November 22
to Miss Sylvia Gladstone. The wedding was held in the

Ambassador Hotel, New York City, and the ceremony
was performed by Rabbi Stephen $, Wise,

[8]

Graves Portrait Presented

ALUMNI, especially of the Law School, will be inter-
ested to hear about the unveiling, last October 20, of a
portrait of the late Charles A. Graves, professor of law
at Washington and Lee from 1873-1899. This portrait was
presented to the University by a group of alumni who
studied under Judge Graves and who felt that his teach-
ing had contributed largely to their eventual success. The
picture was painted by Bjorn Egli, prominent Washing-
ton artist, and will hang in Tucker Hall.

The presentation ceremonies were held at the Lee
Chapel before many students and professors, the alumni
group, and several members of Judge Graves’ family.
Mrs. Emily Shepherd, granddaughter of Judge Graves,
unveiled the portrait, while Dean Moreland presided. Dr.
Gaines accepted the gift for the University. Alumni speak-
ers were: Judge Henry W. Holt of Staunton, member of
the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, Judge Joseph A.
Glasgow of the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit, Judge Wade
Ellis of Washington, Lewis Baumgardner, Staunton at-
torney, and Captain Greenlee D. Letcher, attorney of
Lexington.

After leaving Washington and Lee in 1899, Judge
Graves taught at the University of Virginia. He died at
Charlottesville in 1928.

 

eee Pe cad ee ee ee

 - a SS ee
= y ,
¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

James H. Price, 1909, Governor of Virginia, and his son,
Jimmy, 1941, seen just after both had been tapped by
Omicron Delta Kappa,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

©. D.K. Observes Twenty-Fifth Anniversary

1x alumni of Washington and Lee were among the

twenty-three men to be honored by Omicron Delta
Kappa at the annual “tapping’’ ceremonies in the Doremus
Gymnasium last December 1. They were:

Henry St. George Tucker Carmichael, 1899, of Ky-
rock, Kentucky, president of the Kentucky Rock and As-
phalt Company.

Robert P. Hobson, 1914, a member of the law firm of
Woodward, Dawson and Hobson and a trustee of the
University of Ken-
tucky, who accepted
but could not be at the
meeting.

William A. Wright,
1913, of Tappahan-
nock, a member of the
Virginia Senate.

Judge Edward S.
Deleplaine, 1913, of
the Maryland Court of
Appeals.

Samuel H. Wil-
liams, 1914, a member
of the Lynchburg law
firm of Williams and
Robertson.

James H. Price,
1909, Governor of Vir-
ginia.

Governor Price de-
livered the address of
the morning in the
form of a talk on leadership and the qualities of a good
executive. Initiation into O. D. K. also became a family
affair for the Prices inasmuch as the Governor’s son,
James H., Jr., 1941, was tapped at the same time with his
father. This is the first instance of a double O. D. K.
father-and-son day in the club’s twenty-five years of his-
tory, for R. P. Hobson’s son, Robert, was one of the un-
dergraduates tapped.

The undergraduates honored this year included eight
seniors, two juniors, and six law students: John G. Alnutt,
Reid Brodie, Jr., of Owensboro, Kentucky, Emery Cox,
Jr., of Norfolk, Virginia, Brent H. Farber, of Baltimore,
Edwin J. Foltz, of Fort Smith, Arkansas, Robert W.
Gary, of Beaumont, Texas, Ross V, Hersey, of New Bed-

 

Alumni, left to right: Delaplaine, Carmichael, Price, Wright.

ford, Massachusetts, Robert C. Hobson, of Louisville,
Kentucky, Louis I. Plummer, of Lexington, Virginia,
James H. Price, Jr., of Richmond, Virginia, William M.
Read, of Philadelphia, William F. Saunders, of Montvale,
New Jersey, Francis J. Sugrue, of Naugatuck, Connectt-
cut, Alfred R. Thompson, of Rockville Centre, New York
and Ernest Woodward II, of Louisville, Kentucky.

The other new member was Professor Charles P.
Light of the Law School faculty, and Law Review editor.

This year’s O.D.K.
initiation was also
marked by the celebra-
tion of the real 25th
anniversary of the or-
ganization’s founding.
Though there was a
special celebration on
the campus last spring
at a general convention
of the society at which
a bronze medallion
was affixed to the wall
of Washington Col-
lege, the actual date of
founding was Decem-
ber 3, 1914.

Since that time,
Omicron Delta Kappa
has had a remarkably
rapid growth. Today
there are forty-eight
Circles on campuses
from Johns Hopkins to the University of Denver. Lou-

 

isiana State University, Tulane, the University of Ken-
tucky, Duke, Ohio State, Vanderbilt, the University of
Pittsburgh, and the University of Virginia, to name a few,
all have chapters, and there are now about 10,00 members.

Recognition of this achievement was accorded at the
Silver Anniversary Banquet this fall to the founders: Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, James E. Bear, William Moseley
Brown, and Ruppert N. Latture. All these men were for-
tunately able to be present so that they might, along with a
large number of members old and new, review the past
achievements and look forward to the promising fu-
ture of Omicron Delta Kappa, now a truly national fra-
ternity.

[9 |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Unusual Reunion

AN item that easily might be used in a “Believe It Or
Not” column was received here this fall, and we record it
now with congratulations to the three men concerned and
best wishes for future reunions.

In the Washington and Lee class of 1879 there were
four M.A. students. These were: J. M. Glenn, the Rev.
erend Robert F. Campbell, Dr. W. Spencer Currell, for-
mer chairman of the Washington and Lee English depart-
ment, and J. F. Akers who died some years ago.

But a letter from Mr. Glenn to Secretary Young tells
of the meeting last September 1 of the three surviving
members! As Mr. Glenn describes it: “Mrs. Glenn and I
had to spend several hours on that day waiting for a train
at Asheville. Bob and Mrs. Campbell drove us to Mon-
treat where the Currells spent the summer. It was a happy
gathering for all of us. It seems quite remarkable that

three-fourths of that group and their wives should still be -

living. Bob Campbell expected to preach twice the next
day !”’

 

Central Kentucky Alumni Meet

Twenty alumni of Washington and Lee responded to
invitations to meet and organize a Central Kentucky
Alumni Association at the La Fayette Hotel in Lexington,
Kentucky, on November 17, and a sufficient number of
others sent their regrets with added notes of encourage-
ment to indicate a successful chapter in this area.

Within fifty miles, more or less, reside approximately
one hundred former students of Washington and Lee, a
large proportion of whom are expected to form the active
group to promote the interest of the University in this
region.

Harry K. (Cy) Young came to Lexington to assist in
the organization and to deliver the address at the dinner
meeting. He brought news of the campus affairs and con-
cluded with a summation of the purpose for which the
alumni associations are formed.

The following were present for the dinner and meet-
ing : William P. Knight, 1928, and Robert J. Denny, 1910,
of Nicholasville; Emile B. Beatty, 1320, of Beattyville ;
Dr. Stuart Hamphill, 1929, Danville; R. Hall Wolfe,
1939, Georgetown; Thomas Ripy, 1937, Lawrenceburg ;
Joseph L. Arnold, 1937, John I. Macey, 1938, and Gil-
more Nunn, 1931, of Lexington; Richard W. Lacefield,
1930, Midway; William Thompson, 1933, Mt. Sterling ;
Thomas Henry Clay, III, 1924, and Buckner Woodford,
Jr., 1933, of Paris; William Spahr, Jr., 1935, and Addi-
son Witt, 1931, of Winchester ; Dorsey Wilson, 1938, and
Bill Davis Fishback, 1938, of Versailles; Judge Hunter

Shumate, 1916, and Thomas Dickerson Shumate, 1930,
of Irvine.

Officers elected for-the year 1939-1940 were Joseph L.
Arnold, president ; Robert J. Denny, vice-president ; and
John I. Macey, secretary-treasurer.

 

Charleston Chapter Elects Officers

About fifty alumni gathered at the Edgewood Coun-
try Club on Friday, October 20, the night before the
Washington and Lee-West Virginia game, to have a meet-
ing and give some preliminary cheers for the team.

The business of the meeting concerned elections
chiefly, and the same officers: John H. Thomas, 1934,
president; Ruge De Van, 1934, vice-president; and Jay
Schwabe, 1928, secretary and treasurer, were re-elected.
The meeting’s main topic of discussion, as a clairvoyant
reader might have guessed, was the impending contest, in
which it was decided—correctly as it turned out—that
the Generals were going to be victorious over the Moun-
taineers for the first time in twenty-four years.

Cy Young and Captain Dick Smith were there and
spoke, but the main address of the evening was by the
Governor of West Virginia, Homer A. (Rocky) Holt,
1918.

Music was furnished for the occasion by the famous
colored ‘‘jug” band, and the whole affair was judged one
of the best annual meetings ever held.

 

Fancy Dress Theme Announced

WASHINGTON AND LEE alumni in Kentucky may pre-
pare to be honored by the undergraduates this year as the
college makes ready to dedicate this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball to them.

The theme of the dance will be the party after the first
Kentucky Derby in May, 1875. Derbies, sunshades, bus-
tles, and Stephen Foster’s music will be featured. We'll
tell you about what happened in our next issue.

 

J. Franx Rusuton, 1923, president of the City Ice
Delivery Company of Birmingham, Alabama, received
one of the highest honors attainable in this line of business
when he was elected a director of the National Associa-
tion of Ice Industries at the association’s convention in
Chicago. He had been already on the board but had been
filling a vacancy in the membership. This time he was
elected for the full three-year term.

Mr. Rushton joined the City Ice Delivery Company
in 1924 after doing graduate work at Columbia. He was
made president of the concern in 1938.

[10]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

A scene from a recent Troubadour production

The Troubadours, an Experiment in Self-Help

By Freperick B. Farrar, 1941

ALLING in line with the present policy of all student
La sctivities to increase the scope and quality of their
work, the Washington and Lee Troubadours started off
their twentieth season with the proverbial bang and have
promised to make the 1939-1940 year their best since 1919.
With two plays produced before Christmas, with radio
shows scheduled every week, with work under way for
the future Troubadour productions, the dramatic society
has indeed made an auspicious beginning for the present
year.

For the last five years, the Troubadours have been
building up to 1939, and now they see their way clear to
achieve some of the ambitions that have been dormant in
directors’ minds for several years. Since taking over the
old ““Main Street Opera House” and converting it into the
Troubadour Theatre, the dramatic society has increased
the number of productions and the quality of the perform-
ances. Among the plays given in that period which have
received the acclaim of students, faculty, and townspeople

of Lexington are Petrified Forest, Ah, Wilderness, and
The Front Page.

Last fall, the Troubadours put on Criminal at Large
by Edgar Walace. Featured in this mystery play was
James Faulkner, a senior at Washington and Lee this
year, and Jim Clark. Just before this time the Trouba-
dours were deprived of their faculty direction when Pro-
fessor Lawrence Watkin decided that he couldn’t find the
time that the organization merited to devote to the society.
From this point on, the Troubadours have been doing the
direction and production of all the plays with no outside
help. Criminal at Large was the first test of their ability
to manage themselves, and not only did the show make a
grand hit in the University, but it unearthed a number of
of potential stars for future productions.

Flushed with their success, but at the same time handi-
capped by funds and by inadequate facilities for dramatic
ventures, the Troubadours next tried a Russian play,
Squaring the Circle, which was adapted for the American

[11]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

stage. This play depicted life in Communist Russia, and,
due to some clever propaganda, over two hundred were
turned away from the theatre on the two nights that the
play was presented. For the first time, students thronged
the aisles, and Squaring the Circle became common talk in
every fraternity house, with the Russian accents of Iran-
cis Sugrue, Jim Faulkner, and Johnny Alnutt imitated by
both the “recording-playing” freshman and the “bridge-
playing” senior.

3ut the present year was destined to become the most
outstanding to date, as the plans were drawn up early in
the summer and the key men in the organization procured
positions in summer stock companies,
I‘inally recognizing that the ultimate aim
of the Troubadours is to be able to place
boys in stock companies and permit them
to carry on the work that they started
here, John Alnutt worked in the Little
Theatre group in Baltimore, while James
Faulkner played eight weeks in the Reg-
inald Goode Theatre in Sleepy Hollow,
New York, which numbers Mrs. Vin-
cent Astor and Mrs. Franklin D. Roose-
velt were among its patrons.

Francis Sugrue, elected president of
the ‘roubadours this year succeeding
‘Tom Tennant, definitely stated that the
purpose of the organization for this year
and for the future is to produce at least
four good plays annually in order to
demonstrate that the group is capable of
extraordinary work. Also there will be
an attempt to gain more support than is now enjoyed, and
to produce shows good enough to be presented on the road
in the manner of dramatic organizations in other univer-
sities. Already these ambitions have been partially real-
ized with one of the most successful plays ever to be pro-
duced, The Play's the Thing, which went on the road
for three performances, and H’interset, which was given
December 15 and 16. To top all of this off, Ernest Wood-
ward, Troubadour publicity director, procured permission
for the Troubadours to appear on the radio, and now a
student production is presented every Tuesday afternoon
at 4:15 from WDBJ, the Roanoke station.

On November 1, 1939, the Troubadours presented
Molnar’s The Play's the Thing. This sparkling comedy
was hilariously received by the student audience, and many
of the faculty claimed that it was by far the finest produc-
tion they have seen in many years of Troubadour work.
Led by Johnny Alnutt, Dolly Burks, and James Faulkner,
the troupe romped its way through P. G. W odehouse’s

 

Francis Sugrue, President

adaptation of the delightful Hungarian farce which is
filled with misunderstandings, delicate situations, and
charming wit.

Spurred on by the comments of the audience, favor-
able opinions of the faculty, and publicity gained from
The Ring-tum Phi, the Troubadours decided to take the
show to the neighboring girls’ schools. After four per-
formances in Lexington, which were marked by several
students, seeing repeat performances, the play went to
Sweet Briar and Hollins. At all the institutions, the com-
edy was received with high praise, and future productions
of the dramatic society were promised welcome engage-
ments.

During this time, the Troubadours
entertained a representative from the
Roanoke radio station with whom they
completed plans for shows over the air.
Each program is to be entirely differ-
ent, is to employ a separate story ex-
ery week, and is to be played by differ-
ent characters. This plan was inaugur-
ated so that the majority of the Trouba-
dours could enter the new field. At pres-
ent, adaptations from Guy de Maupas-
sant’s stories are being presented.

‘To demonstrate how feverishly the
dramatic organization has been work-
ing to build up the prestige of the
the
name of the school in fine dramatics,

Troubadours and to perpetuate
let’s look at a cross section of one
week-end. On one Saturday the Trou-
badours were preparing a radio skit, rehearsing a play for
“W. and L. Z’apoppin’,” presenting The Play’s the Thing
at Hollins, and casting for the new production of Winter-
set—all at the same time! Indeed, with this spirit and

 

willingness to work, the Troubadours hope to achieve
some of their ambitions and to find some means to carry
on all the work that they have so successfully started
this year.

Casting for Winterset was concluded soon after the
first performance of The Play's the Thing. Because of
vigorous work, the production went on the boards Decem-
ber 15 and 16. It is hoped that plans for the Winterset
road shows will be completed soon after the Christmas
holidays. Just as The Play's the Thing was directed by a
student, Kenneth Moxley, so this production of Winterset
will be directed by another student, Francis Sugrue, who
also has a prominent part in the play. Boasting one of the
largest casts ever to assemble on the stage of the Little

(Continued on page 18)

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Generals Turn to Winter Warfare

By Harotp RocHE te Levy, 1942

CTION on the Washington and Lee sports front shifted
A from Wilson Field to Doremus Gymnasium as win-
ter approached, and, as this was written, three groups of
Generals — the basketball team, the

basketball and football outfits. During his pro grid career
he drew pay-checks from clubs in Cleveland, Chicago, and
New York, and among his teammates at various times

were Red Grange and Ken Strong,

 

swimming team, and the wrestling
team—were headed for busy cam-
paigns. The courtment opened their
season on December 9, but the swim-
mers and matmen were still in the
midst of preparations for their first
engagements.

Before dealing with the winter’s
battle prospects, however, let’s look
back a bit and see what has happened
since our last correspondence, which
came in the middle of the fall’s grid
wars.

There has been little quiet on the
Lexington front during the period
between the close of the football sea-
son, which ended with a record of
three victories, four defeats and a

Jan.
Jan.

Feb.

 

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
1940

6—Wake Forest, Danville, Va.
8—North Carolina State, away.
Jan. 13—V. P. I., away.

Jan. 16—Randolph-Macon, here.
Jan. 18—Lynchburg College, away.
Jan. 20—Maryland, away.

Jan. 27—V. P. I., here.
8—Maryland, here.

Feb. 10—Virginia, away.

Feb. 12—Richmond, here.

Feb. 15—William and Mary, here.
Feb. 17—Duke, at Lynchburg.

Feb. 21—William and Mary, away.
Feb. 22—Richmond, away.

Feb. 24—North Carolina State, here.
Feb. 29-March 1, 2—Southern Con-
ference Tournament, at
Raleigh, North Carolina.

two of football’s greatest. His eight-
year tefm in professional basketball
circles included a three-year trick
with the famous New York Celtics.

Cunningham’s coaching exper-
ience dates back to 1934, when he
joined the staff of the Baylor school
in Chattanooga after leaving pro
basketball. He was hired as assistant
coach in football and basketball by
Ohio State the following year, and
gave up his position there to accept
the one-season contract offered him
by Washington and Lee.

The signing of Tilson and Smith
will enable those men to get an early
start in their work for next year’s
grid season, which will include games

 

 

tie, and the opening of the winter

campaigns. First came the announcement that Harold B.
(Cookie) Cunningham, former assistant coach at Ohio
State, had been signed to coach the varsity basketball team.
The hiring of Cunningham was made necessary by the
retirement from athletic duties of H. K. (Cy) Young last
spring. Next came word that Head Football Coach War-
ren E. (Tex) Tilson and Backfield Coach Riley Smith
had been given two-year contract renewals. Then followed
a statement to the effect that Forest Fletcher, veteran
track tutor, had asked for a year’s leave of absence from
his coaching duties. It was a case of “doctor’s orders” that
made the former president of the Southern Conference
give up the post and it has not as yet been filled.

The new basketball coach, by way of introduction, has
had a brilliant career in the world of sports. He climaxed
three years of play on Ohio State’s football team by gain-
ing an end position on virtually every All-American eleven
in 1925, and a few months later was named to the center
berth on the All-Big Ten basketball team. After his grad-
uation from Ohio State in 1926, Cunningham joined the
professional ranks and had turns with several big-time

with Kentucky, Vanderbilt, George
Washington University and seven other teams. The spe-
cial committee on coaches, created last year in response to
alumni requests for a study of the University’s athletic
policy, and composed of an alumnus, a faculty member, a
representative of the student body and the director of
athletics, recommended that both Tilson and Smith be
given new contracts, and the athletic council drew up two-
year pacts for the pair in a meeting late in November.
Action on the assistant coaches, Jack Hennemier and Bill
Ellis, was deferred.

Tilson, whose next season will be his eighth as head
coach at Washington and Lee, plans to get the spring
practice sessions under way early in February. Members
of the star-studded 1939 freshman squad will be primed
for varsity berths during the off-season workouts.

The last of the early winter’s coaching staff develop-
ments deprived the school, temporarily, of the services of
one of its most valued athletic pilots. Forest Fletcher, who
has turned out better-than-average track teams ever since
he came to Washington and Lee in 1914, spent several
months in southern France during a first-semester leave

[13]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Starting lineup: Thompson, guard; R. Pinck, forward; Dobbins, center; Gary, forward; Reinartz, guard.

of absence last year following a severe illness, but he re-
turned to his teaching and coaching duties in the middle
of the school session. He guided the past fall’s cross-
country team, but a short time after the conclusion of that
season he made the announcement that he was giving up
active coaching for a year upon the advice of his physician.

The vacancy left by Fletcher’s temporary retirement
has yet to be filled. The veteran track coach, who captained
a Notre Dame cinderpath team and was a member of the
United States Oympic array before coming to Lexington
twenty-five years ago, was made head of an athletic as-
sociation committee appointed to name his successor, and
it is expected that the new coach will be on hand when in-
door practice starts in January.

A couple of paragraphs about the football season will
bring us up to date. The team, after successive upset vic-
tories over West Virginia and V. P. I., completed its cam-
paign with losses to Washington University, of St. Louis ;
Virginia, and William and Mary.

Highlights of the season, of course, were the victories
over West Virginia and Tech. The triumph over the for-
mer eleven, which was reviewed in the October issue of
Tue ALtuMNri Macazineg, was the first in twenty-four
years for the Generals. The defeat of V. P. I., which
had what was touted as its best team in years, was
hailed throughout the Old Dominion as a grand triumph
for a Washington and Lee team that was not supposed
to do much in the way of winning games. Dan Justice car-
ried the pigskin across the payoff stripe on a two-yard
plunge in the second quarter to give the Generals a 6-0

victory in the dedicatory game for Lynchburg’s new Mu-
nicipal stadium.

Tilson’s eleven traveled to St. Louis to do battle with
Washington University the following Saturday, and a
12-6 loss was all the Generals got in return for their long
journey.

A homecoming crowd of 6,500 watched Washington
and Lee’s gridders give Virginia’s powerful eleven a whale
of a battle before dropping a 7-0 decision on November 10.
Amazing even their most optimistic supporters, the Gen-
erals pushed the visitors all over the field during a first
half in which they earned nine first downs to Virginia's
one. The home forces played a good part of the ball game
deep in Virginia territory, but they couldn’t reach the final
stripe and lost the nod when, in the third quarter, the
Cavaliers put on their only genuine offensive thrust to
register the game’s only points. Jim Gillette, highly-rated
Virginia back, scored the touchdown.

A devastating aerial attack enabled Carl Voyles’ Wil-
liam and Mary outfit to topple the Generals, 18-14, in the
season’s finale. A series of passes gave the Indians their
final touchdown in the last few minutes of play and wiped
vut the second lead which Washington and Lee had held
during the tussle.

Captain Dick Boisseau, one of five seniors who have
played their last football for Washington and Lee, cli-
maxed a brilliant three-year varsity career by gaining tac-
kle posts on the All-State and All-Southern Conference
elevens. Jim Lindsey, rugged guard who, like Boisseau,
will not be back next year, was named to a berth on the

[14]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

All-State first team. Others of the varsity who will grad-
uate in June are Francis Sugrue and Kelly Litteral, both
three-year men in football, and Ronnie Thompson. Sugrue
and Litteral are tackles and Thompson a back.

Three members of the freshman grid team gained po-
sitions on the All-State yearling eleven. They were End
sob York, Tackle John Rulevich, and Center Paul Skill-
man.

Once-brilliant prospects for the 1939-1940 basketball
season were considerably dimmed far in advance of the
first workout when three members of last year’s squad,
all of whom had been counted upon for a good deal of
service this season, failed to return to school. The missing
three were Bobby Stein, aggressive guard who was one of
the main cogs in last year’s machine ; Ed Cuttino, big for-
ward; and Nelly Parks, another man who saw lots of ac-
tion with the 1938-1939 contingent.

The outlook was still pretty well above average when
the team inaugurated its practice sessions under Cunning-
ham early in November. On hand to give the new coach a
nucleus around which to mold his first Washington and
Lee outfit were half a dozen lettermen: Ronnie Thomp-
son, last year’s captain; Dick Pinck, Bob Gary, Howard
Dobbins, Leo Reinartz, Syd Lewis, and Bob Hobson.
‘ootball kept Thompson, Pinck, and Dobbins from re-
porting for a couple of weeks, but they joined the squad
before the initial game to round out a handy crew of
veterans.

Cunningham still has his troubles, though. The squad

  

. meen sree ne * .
ee

 

Action at Doremus Gymnasium

 

Coach Cy Twombly

lacks height, and basketball teams work under a definite
disadvantage when they don’t have a couple of tall men
around to grab the ball off the backboard. Only big man
among the six veterans is Dobbins, six-foot-four-inch
pivot man.

The team, minus the services of Thompson, who was
kept out of action by a leg injury which he picked up late
in the grid year and which was slow to heal, opened its
season with a 39-30 triumph over a Danville independent
outfit composed of former college players. The Generals
were unimpressive in their debut, but they looked better
two nights later when they registered a 31-27 victory over
Alfred-Holbrook College of Manchester, Ohio.

Nineteen games and the annual Southern Conference
elimination tournament make up the cagers’ 1939-1940
schedule. Games with Morris Harvey at Charleston, West
Virginia, and West State Teachers College at Louisville,
Kentucky, were booked for the annual Christmas holiday
P. I., Maryland,
Richmond, William and Mary, and North Carolina, out-
of-town games with George Washington, Virginia, Duke,
Wake Forest, and Lynchburg, and a Doremus Gym tilt

trip. Home and away games with V.

with Randolph-Macon round out the regular slate. The
Conference titular play is scheduled for March 1 and 2
at Raleigh, North Carolina.

There is no reason why Coach Archie Mathis’ 1940
wrestlers shouldn't enjoy the success which has become a
habit with Washington and Lee matmen in the past sev-
eral years. Mathis has a good supply of talented grapplers
on hand, and, barring injuries, they should be able to wade

[15]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

through to a twelfth consecutive perfect season in Con-
ference competition.

The squad’s only weak spot at this writing is the lack
of a first-rate heavyweight. Al Syzmanski, who tackled
the big boys last year, was one of three varsity men taken
by graduation, and Mathis hasn’t been able to find any-
body to fill the vacancy.

The graduation of Harry Crane left a gap in the 121-
pound class, but Harold Read, winner of an intramural
crown last winter gave good accounts of himself in early
workouts this year and is listed for ac-
tion in that division. Another berth was
left open when Bob Kemp, Southern
Conference 128-pound champion, re-
ceived his diploma last June, but three
better-than-average newcomers made
the selection of the best of them Mathis’
only real problem in that class. The
three are Jimmy Hammond, Jack Mor-
gan, and Tom Sweeney.

Two exceptionally good wrestlers
are available for service in the 135-
pound department. One is George Mc-
Inerney, durable veteran, and the other
is Arch Puddington, unbeaten member
of last year’s freshman team. The cap-
tain of the 1939 yearling outfit.’ Tommy
Fuller, will take care of the 145-pound
duties. Fuller went through his fresh-
man season without a defeat in any of his matches.

Charlie Bowles, a regular last year, and Eddie Wagg,
who saw some varsity action last season but spent most of
his time on the sidelines with a bum knee, are fighting it
out for the 155-pound job. Barney Farrier, rugged vet-
eran, has the 165-pound berth well in hand, while Captain
Henry Braun and Bob Schellenberg are Mathis’ best bets
in the 175-pound class.

Because of the lack of a heavyweight, Mathis will
probably move Braun, Farrier or Schellenberg up to that
division in the less important meets. Such a move, which
will advance every man to the class above his usual weight,
will be abandoned and the heavyweight berth left open in
important meets, according to Mathis’ plans.

The matmen will open their 1940 campaign on Jan-
uary 13, when they meet the Richmond Y. M. C. A. out-
fit in Doremus Gymnasium. A week later the Generals will
oppose North Carolina State in a Conference meet in
Lexington. The Apprentice School of Newport News will
tangle with Mathis’ minions on February 10, while a re-
turn to their Conference wars will be made by the Gen-
erals seven days later when they go to Chapel Hill for an

 

Coach Archie Mathis

engagement with the University of North Carolina. A
league tussel with V. P. I. is slated for February 24, and
the season’s finale will stack the Blue grapplers up against
West Virginia.

Cy Twombly, producer of four Southern Conference
championship swimming teams in the past five years, is
singing the blues this year; but prospects aren’t exactly
dismal, and the 1940 Washington and Lee tankmen will
probably fare better than did last year’s team, which had
a rather mediocre campaign. Last win-
ter’s outfit saw a string of consecutive
dual meet victories snapped at 53, and
failed, for the first time since 1935, to
take the top position among Southern
Conference teams.

Seven lettermen form the backbone
of this year’s tank squad, which will
open a hard, six-meet schedule on Feb-
ruary 10. Leader of the veterans is
Captain Brent Farber, lanky speedster
who won the Conference 440-yard title
two years ago. Farber will go to the
mark in the 50- and 100-yard dashes
and in the relays for the Generals this
winter. He broke the school record for
the century in unofficial time trials a
few days before the Christmas holi-
days and ought to capture a good many
points for T'wombly’s outfit during his third year of var-
sity swimming.

Other members of last year’s team who are back this
season are Jake Warner, Bob Boyce, Jack Crawford, Bob
Shreve, Herb Friedman, and Jack Akin. Warner will
swim in the breaststroke and medley relay events. Boyce
and Shreve are divers, while Crawford and Friedman will
cut water in the backstroke. Akin is a breaststroke special-
ist who is being primed for entrance in the 440-yard free-
style this year.

Several members of last year’s freshman team and a
handful of other promising aspirants will make up the
balance of the Blue team.

The tankmen will open their season against William
and Mary on February 10. Four days later they will match
strokes with V. P. I., while on the 17th they will oppose
North Carolina. Duke will come to Lexington for an en-
gagement on February 24, while the dual-meet season will
be concluded against Virginia two days later. This year’s
team will complete what they hope will be another suc-
cessful season when they meet opposition from the whole
Southern Conference in the annual tournament.

[16]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In Memoriam

CoLoNEL WALTER Epwarb Harris, LL.B. 1893, died
on November 9 at his estate, ““Tallwood,” in Petersburg,
Virginia. He was president and editor of the Petersburg
Progress-Index and “dean of Virgirfia daily editors.”

Though he took a degree in law and passed his bar
examinations, he left a practice he had begun in Char-
leston, West Virginia, almost immediately to become edi-
tor of the Charleston Gazette. From then on through his
forty-six years of active newspaper work he was con-
nected with numerous papers. As Washington correspond-
ent for the Richmond Times-Dispatch he was a close
friend of President Theodore Roosevelt. For a time he
was a war correspondent in the Spanish-American war.

Colonel Harris was born in Natural Bridge in 1868.
He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Emma Power Harris.

Davin S. MacDonatp, LL.B. 1907, brother of the
late John A. MacDonald of the class of 1914, survived his
brother by only four days, dying of a heart attack on
November 13, in Durant, Oklahoma. Mr. MacDonald was
born in Cross, West Virginia in 1883. He had practiced
law in Durant since 1908. He leaves a widow and one son,
David, Jr., who was a partner in his law firm.

Joun A. MacDonatp of the class of 1914 died in
Durant, Oklahoma, where he was being treated for a heart
ailment. As attorney, soldier in the Seventeenth Cavalry
during the World War, Lieutenant-Colonel of the Okla-
homa National Guard, and chairman of the committee on
revenue and taxation in the Oklahoma State Assembly
where he was serving his third term as senator, Mr. Mac-
Donald was one of the most prominent men of his state.

Mr. MacDonald was born in Cross, West Virginia in
1892. He is survived by his wife and two sons.

JAMES Ropert NEAL, 1915, affectionately known to
many alumni as ‘‘Coche,” died November 26 following an
operation at the Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston.

Until 1928, when the company was sold to the Gen-
eral Foods Corporation, Mr. Neal was connected with the
Cheek-Neal Coffee Company, makers of Maxwell House
Coffee, of Houston, Texas, being its vice-president at
the time of the reorganization. Since 1928 he had been an
executive of the Second National Bank, serving as vice-
president and a director until his death. He was president
of the Houston Building Company, a director of the

Houston Chamber of Commerce, a director of J. Wein-
garten, Inc., and active in many clubs and organizations.

At Washington and Lee he was a member of Kappa
Sigma, White Friars, and Sigma, and was leader of the
Final Ball in his senior year. He kept up a fine interest in
the college after graduation, and was, at the time of his
death, a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees.

Mr. Neal leaves a wife, Mrs. Marian Seward Neal,
one married daughter, Mrs. William Bonner Ruby of
Washington, D. C., another daughter, Nina Margaret
Neal, who attends Rosemary Hall in Connecticut, and a
son, J. Robert Neal, Jr., at present a freshman at the
University.

EDWARD Parks Davis, LL.B. 1915, well known to an
unusual number of alumni because of his long connection
with the college, died in Oteen, North Carolina, after an
illness of several years.

Coming to Washington and Lee from his native city
of Charlotte, North Carolina, he became prominent and
popular on the campus. He was a member of Kappa
Sigma social fraternity and of many honorary societies.
He managed and played for several athletic teams and
managed the Glee Club. After graduation he served two
years in the World War as First Lieutenant of the 164th
Depot Brigade. From 1920-1923 he was alumni secretary
of the University and for a number of years was assistant
coach of football. He married Miss Edith Derbyshire of
Lexington in 1927, and in 1929, while engaged in the lum-
ber business in Texas, he became ill. He leaves two chil-
dren, Edward Parks, Jr., and Edith.

SAMUEL MERCER GRAHAM, 1919, died on November
23 ina Huntington, West Virginia, hospital where he had
been engaged in a federal engineering project.

Alumni in college with Mr. Graham will remember
him as prominent in campus life. He was captain of the
varsity baseball and basketball teams and a member of the
football team. His fraternity was Phi Kappa Sigma, and
he also belonged to Sigma and Omicron Delta Kappa.

During the World War he was in the army as second
lieutenant. Until a few years ago he was in the retail cloth-
ing business in Lexington with the firm of Graham and
Father.

He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Sarah Lucas Graham,
a sister, Miss Mary Graham, and his brother, John A.
Graham, 1914, professor of Romance Languages at
Washington and Lee.

[17]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“Warhrheit und Dichtung’

(Continued from page 5)
the mover of the resolution, and Dr. Quarles, its most
earnest proponent, and the intense relief of “Old Charlie,”
as Professor Graves familiarly was called. I have never
had occasion to regret my vote.

This incident does not appear in the minutes, but they
do show that the next year Professor Hogue tried again,
and on June 1, 1896, he introduced a resolution in the
faculty meeting “That in the judgment of the Faculty the
interests of this University would be promoted by adopt-
ing the system of co-education here.” Dr. Currell had been
added to the Faculty and was known to be in favor of ad-
mitting women (he had seven daughters); but unfor-
tunately for the co-educationalists, two of the Faculty had
changed their views, for the resolution was lost by a re-
corded vote of seven to three, ‘““Fay—for, and Howe—
against, absent and paired.” At the same meeting a sec-
ond resolution: ‘That with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, the Faculty is willing to receive into the classes
of the University young ladies from Lexington or its im-
mediate vicinity as students of the University,” was lost,
six to four. Evidently some professor who was not in
favor of co-education in general was willing to have it
as far as regarded Lexington or Rockbridge girls.

This was not quite the end of the matter, for at the
Trustees’ meeting a fortnight later (on June 17, 1896)
Trustee Dr. E. C. Gordon of Lexington, Missouri, of-
fered the following : “Resolved that a Committee of Trus-
tees be appointed to inquire into the expediency of open-
ing the doors of this University to women.” He evidently
felt that the margin opposed to co-education, both in Fac-
ulty and in the Board of Trustees, was small and further
consideration might overcome it, but the Trustees voted
to lay his resolution on the table, from which it was never
taken. Thus ended for all time the effort to turn Wash-
ington and Lee University into a co-educational institu-
tion. Today I think no one regrets the failure, but it was a
narrow escape.

 

Who Ran Pedro the Voder?

Any alumni who watched the Bell Telephone exhibit
at the New York World’s Fair last summer might have
wondered who was in charge of those free long-distance
calls or who ran Pedro the Voder, the machine that talks.
The versatile official in charge of these and several other
parts of the exhibith was William Owens of the class of
1928. Mr. Owens is employed by the New York Tele-
phone Company.

The Troubadours, an Experiment in

Self-Help

(Continued from page 12)

Theatre, including Johnny Alnutt, Dolly Burks, Ken
Moxley, Bob Renick, and Latham Thigpen, this produc-
tion of Maxwell Anderson’s tragedy not only brought to
the Washington and “Lee students one of the finest plays
of the day, but also brought to light evidence of the Trou-
badours’ resourcefulness and ability to stage difficult pro-
ductions. Although his hands have been tied on all sides
by lack of funds and outside aid, Kenneth Moxley has
designed all the scenery for the two Troubadour produc-
tions and constructed them by the aid of his stage crew.
By spending hours down in the little brick building, which
has guarded the corner of Lee and Main since 1852, Ken
built one of the most amazingly beautiful sets for The
Play's the Thing that could have been seen on any stage
for this production. For Winterset, not only had the mor-
bid tone of the play been captured by appropriate lighting
and scenery ; but also, there was a moving platform which
facilitated the changing of scenery and speeded up the
action of the play. Also, brought especially for this play
to Lexington, after a hundred-mile journey, was a genuine
hand organ which was guaranteed to play any piece from
“Margie” to “My Blue Heaven.”

With all the sets hand-painted, conceived, constructed
—the plays acted, directed, and managed by the students,
it is with pride that the Troubadours present the record
of their fall work and look forward to the winter and
spring to accomplish even more. Praying for outside help,
thankful for the newly-pointed interior to the theatre, and
striving for the completion of some of their far-flung am-
bitions, the Troubadours point to 1940 as their glorious
year, and in proper progressive spirit, have three one-act
plays under consideration for the next production.

 

RicHarp O. PARMELEE, 1932, formerly manager of
Colgate Inn, Hamilton, New York, has been appointed
manager of the Hotel Governor Cabell at Huntington,
West Virginia.

After his graduation here he attended the Cornell
Hotel School and then managed several hotels before go-
ing to Huntington.

 

Wuite others may be wondering what the Japanese
situation is all about, the Reverend D. C. Buchanan of the
class of 1914 has become an expert on the country. He re-
cently published a scholarly article in the Japanese maga-
zine, Monumenta Nipponica, entitled “Some Mikuji of
Fushimi Inari Jinja.”

[18]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

 

Public Schools of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, 13th and
K Sts., N.W., Washington.

1892

Wma. C. (Levr) Morton
is Clerk of the Circuit Court

Inasmuch as many of the letters on which these
notes are based came to us last spring, some of the
items may be out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-

of Berkeley County, Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia. He

 

ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

1899

 

 

is the first Democrat to hold
this office for more than thirty-six years. He is interested
in football and always on hand for the Homecoming game.

1893

H. A. Acsricu’ is Secretary-Treasurer of Robertson
and Company, Wholesale Grocers of Columbus, Missis-
sippi. He is much interested in athletics and takes pride in
the fact that Riley Smith, the new backfield coach at
Washington and Lee, is from his home town. He says:
‘He is a fine chap and has made good in every department
so far and we Columbians are proud of him.”

Benton S. Rupg is a Commissioner of the State of
New York Legislative Bill Drafting Commission. His of-
fices are in Albany, but his home is in Delmar, New York.

CoLoneL Ev1yAn FunKHOUusER is a Consulting Engi-
neer, 7522 Eastlake Terrace, Chicago. He has been build-
ing appraisal engineer for Chicago and Cook County. He
has a country place near Lexington and is a frequent
visitor.

1897

Prrrie HamIcton has been living in Baton Rouge,
[ouisiana, for the past twelve months while
acting as Area Engineer for the W. P. A.
However, we are keeping him at his old ad-
dress, 408 Walnut Street, New Orleans, as
his mail is forwarded from there.

1898
ABRAN G. SNYDER lives at 1820 Clydes-

  

dale Place, N. W., Washington, D. C. |
Henry W. ANDERSON is still a member = |
of the law firm of Hunton, Williams, An- .@yg<aeW Uy H

derson, Gay and Moore, Electric Building,
Richmond, Virginia.

R. W. Ho vr is Chief Accountant for the

 

Suga

 

Joun Wanroy GARROW
is in the Real Estate business in Houston, Texas. He lives
at 19 Courtland Place. His son, John Wanroy, Jr., is in
his second year at Washington and Lee.

A. Sruart Gipson is Rector of the Episcopal Church
at Manassas, Virginia.

1900

D. K. Cameron has had many experiences in many
parts of the globe, following our flag to victory on foreign
shores, but does not go into detail, as he says many have
had similar experiences and have had the yen to tell it.
His address is Box 501, West Los Angeles, California.

L. R. Hotmers is Manager of Furness, Withy and
Company, Limited, Steamship Owners and Agents, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania .He has been with the company for
the past sixteen years .

1901

A. F. Wuir® is operating the American Steel and
Wire Company, subsidiary of the United States Steel
Corporation at Donora, Pennsylvania. He writes: “.. . but
what has all this to do with the green grass on the cam-
pus, with the maples coming into leaf, the
locust trees blooming by the Old Blue Hotel
and the college bell ringing to come to class ?
They are all there yet and I’m thinking the
hearts of many an old-timer are with them.”

1902

J. P. WALL has practiced law continu-
ously in Seattle, Washington, since graduat-
| | ing from Washington and Lee. He has two
| married daughters, a son, and two grand-
Th sons. He says “A hearty ‘HELLO’ to all
of} | wie members of the class of 1902.”
cui a W. ‘T. Extis is practicing medicine in
P Philadelphia with offices in the Hardt Build-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ing, S. E. Corner Broad and Columbia Avenue. He makes
a suggestion that the Commencement exercises he held on
the campus in front of the Lee Chapel.

1903

Ferris A. SAmMpsoN gives his address as 1109 Ken-
tucky Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

R. T. FLANARY is President of the Norton, Virginia,
Hardware Company and is also interested in raising pure-
bred beef cattle. His good spirit, known to classmates, has
evidently remained with him to the present time.

F. W. Cramer, senior member of the firm of York
Stone and Supply Company, states that there is little to
add to his statement of last year. He hopes any alumni
visiting his city will make their presence known to him.
He is a good booster of the city of York, Pennsylvania.

B. B. Survey continues the practice of law in Mar-
ion, Indiana, but since the recent death of an only son he
spends much time on his farm.

1904

Grorcr (GEE) Haw is a member of the law firm of
Haw & Haw, with offices in the Travelers Building, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

M. I. McCrurs is Dean of the University of Illinois,
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Urbana, Illinois. He
was given the degree of LL.D., from Washington and
Lee last June. He says: “When I received the notice of
this award from President Gaines, I thought of the an-
cient Bishop of Ephesus who explained to his parishion-
ers that he had been elevated to that position by the in-
advertence of providence.”

1905

D. T. Moore is Business Manager of Greenbrier Mili-
tary School, Lewisburg, West Virginia. He says the grad-
uates of his school are making good in the universities
which they enter, and so feels they are holding up the
reputation of Washington and Lee.

E. W. KE. ty is with the Central Insurance Agency,
Peoples Drug Store Building, Bristol, Virginia.

Rosert A. LApsLEyY, JR., is Pastor of the First Pres-
byterian Church, Roanoke, Virginia. He has many happy
memories of the old days at Washington and Lee.

1906

CraupEe P. Licu’ was married in March of this year.

He is Prosecuting Attorney of Wood County, Parkers-
burg, West Virginia.

H. M. Banpy is a member of the law firm of Bandy
and Bandy, First National Bank Building, Norton, Va.

1907

Martin CARABALLO is a member of the law firm of
Caraballo, Graham and Caraballo, Suite 312 Tampa Gas
Company Building, Tampa, Florida.

Harry AxELRorH is practicing law in the Philadelphia
Savings Fund Building, 12 South Twelfth Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

1908

Ape StapLes is Attorney General of Virginia. His
home is in Roanoke, Virginia.

W. G. Lone is engaged in the private practice of law
at Purcell, Oklahoma. He was Judge of Murray County,
Oklahoma, from 1921 to 1927. His home is at Paul’s Val-
ley, Oklahoma.

ALBERT WALLACE LYBRAND lives at 1223 Massachu-
setts Avenue, S. I/., Washington, D. C.

‘ JULIAN S. GRAVELY lives at 105 ‘Tunbridge Road, Bal-
timore, Maryland.

Don Boyer has been teaching mechanical drawing at
John Marshall High School in Richmond since 1933. On
the side, in the summer, he sells for the Spencer Turbine
Company, having had this line for fifteen years.

ALAN Porter LEE lives at 136 Liberty Street, New
York.

1909

REUBEN RAGLAND is a member of the law firm of Kay,
Ragland & Kurtz, Consolidated Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

STAFFORD CALDWELL is practicing law in Tallahassee,
Florida, with offices in the Centennial Building.

S. N. Hosuovur, 101 Oakenwold Street, Staunton,
Virginia, teaches mathematics at Staunton Military Acad-
emy.

F. D. StEvENSON is a Presbyterian Minister at Sweet-
water, Tennessee. He thinks that East Tennessee is the
loveliest spot in the world. He has a garden that pleases
him. He sometimes feels that he is neglecting “revealed
theology” and the saints, for “natural theology.”

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Curis CHENERY has been president of a public utility
holding company for a dozen years. His address is 90
Broad Street, New York.

1910

RussE_t L. Frink is practicing law in the Graham
Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

Martin Wiruers is practicing law in Tampa, Flor-
ida, with offices in the First National Bank Building.

Jor BLacksurn is Administrative Assistant to the
Director of the Department of Public
Assistance. His address is 1714 Mc-
Clung Street, Charleston, West Va.

Loomis F. Kiurz is practicing law
in Newton, North Carolina. He has
represented Catawba County in the
State Legislature since 1921.

Bos HutcuHeson runs R. §. Hut-
cheson & Company, Mill Work, Lum-
ber and Builders’ Supplies, Lexington,
Virginia. His son, Robert S., Jr., is in
this year’s graduating class at Wash-
ington and Lee.

ALBERT McCown, M. D., formerly
medical director of the maternal and child health division
of the Federal Children’s Bureau, has been appointed
deputy commissioner of the Michigan Department of
Health. His address is Michigan Department of Health,
Lansing, Michigan.

1911

GrorcE W. CHANEY is practicing law in the Colonial
Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia. His son is a senior at
Washington and Lee this year. The second son is at Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute, on account of wanting to study
Chemical Engineering, and the youngest, ten years old,
is “a comfort to his daddy at home, in his old age—but not
so old.”

Joun G. Hernpon is Professor of Government at
Haverford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania. He con-
tributes to the American Political Science Journal and
other similar magazines.

J. Paxton Barcvay is manager of the Midwest Mar-
keting District of The Pure Oil Company. He has been
with this company for eighteen years and located in Chi-
cago for the past ten years.

W. K. Price is Assistant Cashier of the local bank at

New Market, Virginia. He does farming and stock-raising
on the side.

1912

Wittram J. Witcox is a member of the law firm of
Snyder, Wert & Wilcox, 510 Hamilton Street, Allen-
town, Pennsylvania. His son is a freshman at Washing-
ton and Lee this session.

Byron L. BALLARp is practicing law in Lansing, Mich-
igan, under the firm name of Shields, Ballard, Jennings
and ‘l'aber, with offices in the Olds Tower Building. His
daughter graduated from Mary Bald-
win College, and he has a son who ts
still in preparatory school.

      
 
 

— a
ee a

vs

LANDON TAYLOR REYNOLDs is clerk
of the Mercer County Circuit and

fh: Criminal Court, at Princeton, W. Va.
re

  
 
  

Ep Lyons is a Chemist with the
‘ Parke-Davis Company of Detroit. He

¥ writes an obituary of his Class Agent,
« Dan Owen, as follows:

‘Here lies Dan—a splendid man,
Class Agent fine, of 1939.”

—

ae 1913

-

C. B. Fosrer is in the circulation department of The
Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tennessee. He is married
and has one child.

EucENE C. Dickerson has practiced law in the City
of Roanoke, Virginia, in the same offices since 1913.

H. Wise KE tty has lived in Fairfax and practiced law
in Washington since the war.

GayLorp J. STONE is founder and president of the
Universal Mills, Fort Worth, Texas. He is the fourth
generation of his family to be engaged in the flour mill
business. He went to Texas in 1920 and organized the
firm of Stone & McKenna at Waxahachie. The business
was destroyed by fire, whereupon he moved to Fort Worth
in 1921 and organized the Universal Feed Mills. In 1929
he built the present 2,000-barrel plant of the Universal
Mills and made his first shipment of flour in 1930.

Herser’ T. TAyior is with A. M. Pullen & Company,
auditors and certified public accountants of Richmond,
Virginia. He has three sons. He lives at 3811 Fauquier
Avenue, Richmond, Virginia.

ApRIAN WILLIAMSON says he is following the typical
course of a country lawyer, looking for diversion to ac-
tivities as Commanding Officer of the 154th Observation

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Squadron, Arkansas National Guard, and amateur astron-
omical observation. He is “safely married to Catherine
Montgomery Williamson and am contributing to poster-
ity three children, Adrian, Jr. (age 13), Catherine Ann
(age 10), and Margaret (age 5).”

Irwin L. Vicor is living at 1130 Trenton Street, Los
Angeles, California. He is in the advertising business.

Bos Wirt is President of the Builders’ Supply Com-
pany, San Antonio, Texas. He has two daughters, of
whom the elder entered Smith this year. He says: “The
younger one will remain in a local school until we can find
an advanced girls’ school which permits horses in the
classroom—she spends as much time with horses as she
does with human beings and is more fond of them.”

1914

L. R. (Marx) Hanna is still practicing law in Bir-
mingham, Alabama. His offices are in the First National
Bank Building. Mark’s oldest son is a junior in Washing-
ton and Lee this year, and his second son graduated at Bell
Buckle, Tennessee in June. He writes that Roderick Bed-
dow is considered the leading criminal lawyer in Birming-
ham and was President of the Birmingham Bar Associa-
tion last year.

R. Lee BeuurRinc is practicing law in Huntington,
West Virginia, with offices in the First National Bank
Building.

Frep M. Davis practiced law until his father died in
1925. He then quit the law practice to enter the insurance
firm of Davis, Childs & Company, of which firm his father
was one of the founders. He married Wortley Crowe in
1937, and they live in Lynchburg near the Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College, within sight of the James River.
If any of the 1914 class come to Lynchburg, he wants
them to look him up.

Rozert P. Hosson, Louisville, Kentucky, is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Woodward, Dawson & Hobson,
and enjoys a substantial law practice. Bob has for years
been an active and prominent member of the International
Association of Insurance Counsel.

SAMUEL O. LAUGHLIN, JRr., Wheeling, West Virginia,
is President of the Wheeling Tile Company. He is mar-
ried and has three boys; and he says that he and Mrs.
Laughlin hope to enter them as students at Washington
and Lee when they are ready for a higher education.

W. B. Snyper, Shepherdstown, West Virginia, is edi-
tor of the Shepherdstown Register. The slogan is “The

Best Paper in Jefferson County,” and we are sure it is de-
served. When he left school, he went into the automobile
business and also operated a garage. He served in the air
service in the World War and spent fifteen months over
seas. Upon his return from the War he sold out his au-
tomobile business and went with his father on the news-
paper of which he is now editor. He was married in 1919
and has two daughters and one son. His older daughter is
a student at Stephens College in Columbia, Missouri, and
the other two children are in high school. In addition to
his other duties he was appointed Postmaster of Sheph-
erdstown on October 9, 1938; and in April, 1939, received
his permanent appointment as Postmaster.

1915

RANboLtpu C. SHAw is a senior attorney on the staff
of the Chief Counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue, Treas-
ury Department, Washington, D. C. Other senior attor-
neys who are alumni of Washington and Lee are L. 5.
Pendleton, 1911, and Francis Waters, 1926.

Ki WitwiaMs is still with the DuPont Company at
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Rosert P. Apams says his status of single-blessedness
has not changed, and he is still practicing his profession in
the law firm of Taylor, Adams and Freeman, Trenton,
Tennessee.

FRANK B. Hayne wrote his class agent in May from
the American Embassy, office of the Military Attache,
Moscow, Union of Soviet Socialist Republic. He took up
his duties as Assistant Military Attaché on October 3,
1937, and took over the duties of Attaché upon the de-
parture of his predecessor in February, 1939. His title is
Major of Infantry, U. 5. A.

Leon W. Harais is practicing law at Anderson, South
Carolina.

Jor MiLNer is with the Coca Cola Bottling Works,
Gulfport, Mississippi.

1916

N. C. (Cuick) Evans has been with the Reconstruc-
Finance Corporation, Louisville, Kentucky, for over a
year. His daughter graduated from high school in June
and his son from junior high.

Sam KoueEN is with the Veterans’ Administration in
Waco, Texas. His address is 3022 Novice Road.

D. EastEy WacGOoNER is Vice-President and General
Manager of the United Fidelity Life Insurance Company,
Dallas, Texas, which he helped organize twenty years ago.

[22]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

He guides the destiny of forty employees and five hun-
dred agents.

C. Epmunp Wortnu is a member of the firm of
Worth, Bivens & Lively, Attorneys-at-Law, First Na-
tional Bank Building, Tampa, Florida.

M. Ceci. (JAcK) Horner has been with the Equi-
table Life Insurance Company for the past twelve years.
He is Field Assistant at Morristown, Tennessee.

A. L. Bennerr is Superintendent of the Alleghany
Public School, Covington, Virginia.

1917
C. R. Hitt is President of the Mer-
chants & Miners National Bank, Oak
Hill, Virginia. He was recently elected
Mayor of the City of Oak Hill for the
seventh time.

GABRIEL DE LA Hapa is Attorney-
at-Law, San Juan, Puerto Rico. He has
held numerous responsible positions
along legal lines. Cy Young had a de-
lightful visit with him in San Juan this
summer. He was married in 1924 to Teresa Malia and
they have three children, Gabriel, Teresa and Louis, aged
13, 11, and 9, respectively.

FE. L. Hrx lives at 4214 Washington Street, Niagara
Falls, New York. He reports “a tremendous revival of
the Sons of the American Revolution” in this section, as
an organization to fight and counteract the various sub-
versive influpences which are working in the country to
undermine our present form of government.”

Bitty Cox is State Highway Commissioner, 165 Capi-
tal Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut. His home is at New-
ington, Connecticut.

Dr. T. Preston Wuire and his family were visitors
in Lexington during the summer. His offices are in the
Professional Building, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Miron Rocers is with the American Water Works

and Electric Company, 50 Broad Street, New York.

1918

Joun McCuorp is still practicing law as a member of
the firm of Calfee & Fogg, 308 Euclid Avenue Building,

 

Cleveland, Ohio. He says: “A nice fine boy arrived at our
cabin on November 20, 1938. We are very proud of him
and plan to enter him at Washington and Lee just as soon
as he is able to utter a good rebel yell.”

Puit HANGER is associated with R. B. Bosserman in
the insurance business in Staunton, Virginia.

Jim Izarp is still in the general insurance business with
with Chas. Lunsford & Sons, Colonial National Bank
Building, Roanoke, Virginia. He has two sons ,the older
boy being 16, six feet tall, and 175 pounds. He made the
first team and his letter at the Episcopal
High School his second year there. The
other son is 13 and in high school in
Roanoke.

1919

Ropngy Cray Rerp, formerly of
Rockbridge Baths, Virginia, is now on a
farm at Route No. 3, Delta, Ohio. He
has been married twice and has a daugh-
ter, twenty years old, and a fine baby boy
six months old.

Tom GritiiAmM is Cashier of the
Lynchburg National Bank and Trust Company. He re-
ports the birth of another son, Thomas W. Gilliam, Jr.,
born June 16, 1938.

1920

GrorGE S. MUELLER has lived in Manhasset, Long Is-
land, New York, since December, 1936. He is doing Rub-
ber Research in the Bell Telephone Laboratories. His ad-
dress is 51 Quaker Ridge Road.

H. S. PowE tt is Principal of the Central High School,
Virginia. He is still married to the same girl he married
in 1917 while at Washington and Lee, and has two daugh-
ters 18 and 20.

W. F. Parker is practicing law in Miami, Florida,
with offices in the Ingraham Building. He says with the
passing of the years since leaving Washington and Lee he
has accumulated a wife, two sons, and some law practice.
He was in Lexington in September, 1938, for the first
time since leaving school.

Harry L. Moors is head of the Department of Poultry
Husbandry, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg,
Virginia. He is married and has three children.

Dr. RANDotpPH T. Smirnu, Little Rock, Arkansas, has
been practicing surgery in Little Rock since January,

[23]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1929. He is married and has two children, Randolph
Tucker Smith, Jr., aged 10, and Margaret Gale Smith,
aged 4.

PinKNEY Grissom is a member of the law firm of
Thompson, Knight, Baker and Wright, Republic Bank
Building, Dallas, Texas.

1921

Rosert G. Ketty is a member of the law firm of
Brown, Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

A. MiLuinc BERNSTEIN is practicing law in Monroe,
Louisiana, with offices in the Ouachita National Bank
Building. He married Lois Jouvenat in 1925 and they
have a boy twelve and a girl ten.

Ben F. Howarp has been practicing law in Welch,
West Virginia, since his graduation from Washington and

Lee.

DEAN OwENs is a member of the law firm of Mat-
thews, Owens and Maddox, Rome, Georgia. He writes:
“I was greatly shocked at the untimely death of Henry
Boley, who, during his life, gave so much of himself to
the students who attended Washington and Lee. I know
of no one, not directly connected with the University, who
has contributed so much to the happiness of students at
Washington and Lee, or who did more to keep alive the
great traditions of the institution.”

1922

A. J. Lusiiner has been practicing law in Bluefield,
West Virginia, ever since leaving college. His offices are
in the Law and Commerce Building.

R. E. SHERRILL has been located at the University of
Pittsburgh for the past ten years—first in the Geology
Department and now as head of the Oil and Gas Depart-
ment, which specializes in training men for engineering
and geological work for the oil industry.

Dr. H. T. Gararp is an eye, ear, nose and throat spe-
cialist, with some time for medical writing, technical and
diagnostic instrument design, with a bit of free lance writ-
ing on topics best described under the title of psychology.

Wacrer K. Smiru, JR., is practicing architecture in
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Huston Sr. Crair is with the Virginia Smokeless
Coal Company, Tazewell, Virginia. He says: “Most of
my time recently has been spent in New York but now
that our new contract has been signed with Mr. John L.

Lewis it gives us a chance to come home and answer our
letters.”

1923

W. H. Haynes lives in Fayetteville, West Virginia.
He has a boy nine and a girl seven. Spends his spare time
gardening and raising chickens. He has been Chairman of
the Fayette County Chapter of the American Red Cross.

FRANK FisHer is Assistant Clerk of the State of West
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals and lives in Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Joseru R. Lonc is still practicing law in the firm of
Fordyce, White, Mayne, Williams and Hartman, 506
Olive Street, St. Louis, Missouri, engaged largely in cor-
poration practice.

D. R. (Toap) SNIVELY is Vice-President and Secr-
tary of the Hagerstown Leather Company. English Set-
ter dogs are his hobby, and on the side, running a farm
with Guernsey cows, Chester white hogs, Hampshire
sheep, and White Rock chickens.

1924

CHARLIE COHEN is a member of the firm of Cohen &
Neustein, Counsellors at Law, 475 Fifth Avenue, New
York.

Tuomas P. DuncaAN, Jr., lives in Newport News,
Virginia.

Jack Tuomas is Minister of the Grace Covenant
Presbyterian Church, 1627 Monument Avenue, Richmond,

Virginia. He is now a member of the University Board of
Trustees.

Watcter Frick is Professor in the Department of
Psychology and Education at Washington and Lee.

Bos CAMPBELL has recently accepted a call to St.
Stephen’s Church, Steubenville, Ohio. His new address is
521 Logan Street, Steubenville, Ohio.

1925

Cap NEtson has been appointed General Receiver of
the Circuit Court of Augusta County and of the Corpora-
tion Court of the City of Staunton, Virginia. He has a
young daughter just starting to walk.

W. E. Moors is practicing law with offices in the First
National Bank Building, Waynesboro, Virginia.

CLARENCE HINKLE reports the formation of a Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Club in Roswell, New Mexico,

[24]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

with twelve members. He is practicing law under the firm
name of Hervey, Dow, Hill and Hinkle in Roswell.

P. A. NorMAN is with the Western Union Telegraph
Company, Gulf Division, Dallas, Texas. He reports the
birth of a son and heir.

CiypE ALLEN is president of the Richmond Rotary
Club, Richmond, Virginia.

Bitty McRircuis is with the Guarantee Trust Com-
pany, 140 Broadway, New York. His home is at 9 Bev-
erly Gardens, Bronxville, New York.

1926
Tex Titson is head Football Coach at
Washington and Lee. He has a very suc-
cessful camp for small boys about six miles
from Lexington.

Ear L. VALENTINE was elected Pres-
ident of The Shenandoah Valley, Inc.,
regional Chamber of Commerce which
covers fifteen counties, running from
Berkeley County, West Virginia, to Roa-
noke, taking in the entire Shenandoah Val-
ley territory. His home is in Lexington,
Virginia.

RicHARD HALLIDAY is with Paramount Pictures, Inc.,
Times Square, New York.

G. N. (Buppy) May is Court Reporter, Eleventh Ju-
dicial District, Pine Bluff, Aarkansas.

Tuomas B. Burkert is in the cotton business in
Memphis, and Brookhaven, Mississippi. He is married
and has one son whom he hopes to send to Washington
and Lee.

1927

CHarLes H. WIxLson, after graduation, opened a law
office in Crewe, Virginia, his home town. In 1928 he mar-
ried Elizabeth Blank of Richmond, Virginia. He was
elected Mayor of the town of Crewe in 1931 and served
until 1935. In 1936 and 1938 he served in the Virginia
House of Delegates, but he is not a candidate for re-
election. He has a baby girl born May 1, 1937.

T. J. Russe has been in the insurance business with
The Employers’ Group of Boston for the past ten years.
He is now Superintendent of the Southern Claim De-
partment, Atlanta, Georgia. He is married and has two
daughters.

 

GrorGE Burks is a member of the firm of Hummel &
Meyer, Insurance, 405 Washington Building, Louisville,
Kentucky. He is active in the local Washington and Lee
Alumni Association and is proud of the record made by
boys from Louisville in recent years.

Jim WILzourRN is practicing law in Meridian, Miss.

1928

H. S. (Bese) Sports, for the past six years, has been
coaching all sports at Adelphi Academy in Brooklyn,
which is a private, co-educational school. In the summer
he is in chargeof a boat called the Float-
ing Hospital which each day takes out a
thousand undernourished mothers, babies
and children from New York and Brook-
lyn. He has been superintending this work
for the past five years.

CHARLIE STRAHORN is with the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation. When
he wrote his class agent last July, he was
assigned to the Chicago sub-district. His
address is 7010 North Ashland Boulevard,
Apartment 103, Chicago, Illinois. He was
married April, 1937, to Evelyn Louise
Meaghan of Minneapolis.

T. B. Bryant, Jr., has been serving as
City Judge of Orangeburg, South Carolina. Has a small
daughter twenty-seven months old.

Ruypon LATHAM is Chairman of the Jacksonville
Red Cross. He is a member of the law firm of Latham &
Elmore, Florida National Bank Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

1929

RatpH McLANE is a member of the law firm of Coe &
McLane, 310-311 American National Bank Building, Pen-
sacola, Florida.

SAM LANCASTER is General Attorney for the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, Texas and Pacific Build-
ing, Dallas, Texas. He has a boy and two little girls now
aged eight, seven, and five.

Harry Goopwin is with the Seaboard Oil Company,
Box 691, Jacksonville Beach, Florida.

Bunny WHITLOCK has recently built a new home in
Covington, Virginia.

L. C. SPENGLER, JR., is practicing Urology with Dr.
W. W. S. Butler, in the Medical Arts Building, Roanoke,

[25]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Virginia. He has a boy three years old and a baby girl.
Pryton Bus gives his address as P. O. Box 249,
Mobile, Alabama.

J. D. ConneELt is with the Avery-Connell Motor Com-
pany, Shelby, Mississippi.

Ep Ou p is Assistant Vice-President of the First Na-
tional Exchange Bank, Roanoke, Virginia. He is married
and has a son and daughter.

Rosert S. Bacon lives at 1950 Government Street,
Mobile, Alabama. He has recently been made Manager of
the Bond Department of the First National Bank of
Mobile.

1930

Joun L. JENNINGs is practicing medicine at Boca
Grande, Florida.

STaNLEY HamprTon is on a research fellowship with
the Roosevelt Hospital, West Fifty-ninth Street, New
York.

Grorck VERMILYA is practicing General Surgery in
Hickory, North Carolina. He was married in November,
1937.

Grorcr AsuworrtH is with the National Archives,
Washington, D. C. His home is at 17 Saul Road, Kens-
ington, Maryland.

H. C. Martin, Jr., is Secretary to the Superintendent,
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, Newport News,
Virginia. He is married and lives at 29 Brandon Road,
Brandon Heights, Hilton Village, Virginia.

Krnneru Ker is District Manager of the Frederick
A. Schnell Agency of the Penn Mutual Life Insurance
Company, 1015 Myers Building, Springfield, Illinois.

Dick AMMERMAN was a visitor to Lexington last
Spring. He is practicing law at 5 Avenue de I’ Opéra in
Paris.

1931

Jupce Manuev Wetnserc has his law offices in the
Law Building, Frederick, Maryland.

Bit VENABLE is with the Smith-Douglass Company,
Inc., Fertilizers and Materials, Norfolk, Virginia.

Wartry BowEs is still in the real estate business, a
member of the firm of A. G. Bowes and Son, 502 Cali-
fornia Building, Denver, Colorado. He is married and has
two children.

ALEX VANCE finished his work in July as resident in
X-Ray at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, at
which time he expected to join his brother, Robert S.
Vance, 1917, in the practice of Radiology at 562 Beacon
Street, Boston.

Howarp W. Carson is assistant to the Assessor of
Fayette County, Fayetteville, West Virginia He says:
“About the only exciting thing I can think of is the fact
that I fully expect to win the next running of the Irish
Sweepstakes ; I mean win the prize, not run in the race.
And I dare a capricious Fate to surprise me by handing
me the grand award.”

Ben Maxey is still with the Campbell Sales Company
(Campbell Soup). He has been in this business five years
and reports progress. He covers eleven counties in north-
eastern Pennsylvania.

Bren Lewis is working as State Examiner for Mr.
Joseph F. Ferguson, Auditor of the State of Ohio, which
job he has had for a year. He is in the Highway Audits
Department and travels over the State auditing the
twelve divisions of the Highway Department.

Reno Porvrer, after September 1, 1939, has an ap-
pointment as Resident in Cardiology under Dr. Paul
White at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

Kart Smiru has a position at the Elmhurst Inn, on
the Ohio River Boulevard, Swickley, Pennsylvania.

Paut ALLEN Hornor is President of Hornor Broth-
ers Engineers, Inc., Civil and Mining, Clarksburg, West
Virginia. He has two boys, one four years old and one
one month.

1932

Wayne Maruis is engaged in the general practice of
law under the firm name of Covey, Mathis & Covey,
Peoria, Illinois. He was married August 5, 1937, to Miss
Cleo Willcoxen of Peoria.

Henry MACKENZIE is with the Lawyers Title Insur-
ance Corporation, Richmond, Virginia.

Jim PotvaK is married, is writing a book, is with
RKO pictures in Los Angeles, and can be reached there.
We knew him as Jim Steinheimer.

RAN SuHIExps is Assistant Resident in Surgery at City
Hospital, New York, and in July will be Resident Sur-
geon at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, New York.

Bitty Hoy’ is still at John Hopkins as the perennial
scholar, doing research work and working on his Ph. D.

[26]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He has had several articles published by the Maryland
Historical Society.

Mert Kempron is now Director of Education at Sing
Sing under Warden Lawes. He has his M.A. from Co-
lumbia and receives his Ph.D. next year.

Woopson GILLockx is still with DuPont as a chemist.
He was married last Thanksgiving Day.

GrorGE Prick, 814 Taylor Street, N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C., has been with the Department of Labor for
several years in an editorial capacity. He reports that
“Big Island’ Routon is a G-Man for the

Howarp KELLEy is running a Federal Housing Mort-
gage Company. He is practicing law at 615 Main Avenue,
Passaic, New Jersey.

Dick GRAFTON gives his address as Box 8161, Law-
renceville, New Jersey. He moved into his new home last
year. He has a daughter, Marion, two years old.

Joun Barr_e graduated from the University of Penn-
sylvania Medical School in 1938 and has been interning
in the Watts Hospital, Durham, North Carolina. Since
July first he has been in the Charity Hospital, New Or-
leans, Louisiana, as a resident in Pathology. He will, have
this internship for a year or so.

Department of Justice. Wet
. J a wen $b FrED FUNKHOUSER is Secretary-Man-
Joun C. Harris is Executive Partner 2 A ager of the Harrisonburg Loan & Trust

of Scottsboro Wholesale Company, Ltd.,
Scottsboro, Alabama. He is still unmarried.

1933

Topp DEVAN has been appointed Chini-
cal Assistant on the Surgical Service of
Drs. Pfeffer and Deaver at the Lakenau
Hospital, Grand and Corinthian Avenues,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He expects to
settle in Charleston, West Virginia, his
home-town.

Dick Epwarbs is practicing law in Roa-
noke, Virginia. He and John Copenhaver formed a part-
nership immediately after graduation under the firm name
of Copenhaver and Edwards.

Mo CriGuHTon is with the Fidelity and Deposit Com-
pany of Maryland, in New Orleans, Louisiana. His ad-
dress is 4916 Corondelet Street.

Cy PAINTER is teaching school in Bedford, Virginia,
where he has been six years, in fact ever since he received
his M.A. degree in 1934. He reports a successful season
in all the sports, as well as successful trout fishing in the
Blue Ridge. He says he caught sixteen and eighteen nice
ones on successive mornings before school time.

EF. M. Nucko ts, JR., is associated with the law firm of
Covington, Burling, Rublee, Acheson and Shorb, Union
Trust Building, Washington, D. C.

1934

LyNE Forp, since Thanksgiving 1938, has been Act-
ing District Manager of the West Virginia State Employ-
ment Service for the Martinsburg District. His address
is 417 West John Street, Martinsburg, West Virginia.

 

Corporation, National Bank Building, Har-
risonburg, Virginia.

1935

Epwin T.CouLBourN is associated with
Mr. G. A. Harris in the practice of law at
Suffolk, Virginia. He has been married for
more than two years.

L.. P. (IKE) GASSMAN is with the Ar-
cade Manufacturing Co., Freeport, II.

ALEX Harpwoop has been with the In-
vestors Syndicate for about a year, working in the Rich-
mond office. His address is Richmond Trust Building,
Richmond, Virginia.

Joun D. Sponr is handling sales promotion for The
Texas Company, in New Jersey. His address is 77 Fair-
mont Avenue, Chatham, New Jersey.

GrorGE Boyp, Jr., graduated in June from the Har-
vard Law School. His engagement was announced at
Christmas to Terry Raymond of Albany, New York, a
Junior at Radcliffe. His home address is 82 E. Hamp-
shire, Piedmont, West Virginia.

GILBERT C. McKown is practicing law in Martins-
burg, West Virginia.

1936

H. O. Danigetson has been transferred from the
home office of the Blake & Johnson Company in Water-
bury, Connecticut, to handle the sales office in Detroit. His
business address is 322 Stephenson Building, Detroit,
Michigan.

RALtpH JouNn BisHop attended the Law School of
Western Reserve University, after leaving Washington

[27]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and Lee, where he received his degree in 1938. He was
admitted to the Bar in August of that year and is prac-
ticing law in Cleveland, Ohio, with offices in the Union
Commerce Building.

Jacos S. SELIGMAN attended the law school at Lou-
isiana State University from 1936 to 1938, graduating in
June of that year. He has been practicing law since Sep-
tember 1, 1938, with the firm of Madison, Madison and
Files, located in Bastrop and Monroe, Louisiana. Five of
the six members of this firm are graduates of Washing-
ton and Lee.

Forrest Epwarp HurrMAn is working with his
father operating the West Virginia general agency of the
Aetna Life Insurance Company. His territory covers the
entire state. He was married October 13, 1938, to Julia K.
James of Charleston, in the Lee Chapel, by Dr. Moreton.

1937

Docx BAKEr’s address is 126 Saint Andrews Terrace,
Helena, Arkansas.

Trp PLowpEN is with the United States Rubber Ex-
port Company, Ltd., 1790 Broadway, New York.

FIELDEN Woopwakrb is associated in the practice of
law with the firm of Woodward, Dawson and Hobson,
Kentucky Home Life Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

Witiiam C. WIxzvrR, Jr., has returned to Columbia
University to continue his work for a Ph.D. in history.
He is living in John Jay Hall.

C.ARNoLD MatrHeEws received his M.A. from the
University of Virginia in June, 1938, and is teaching this
session at the University of West Virginia.

1938

Brit Rirz, who has been, since graduation, with the
Research Department of the Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce, has the leading article in the December issue
of Commonwealth, The Magazine of Virginia. The article
is called “Wealth of Virginia” and undertakes to show
that since 1900 the Old Dominion has advanced more
rapidly in per capita value of physical assets than any
other state.

LEONARD LEIGHT is associated in the practice of law
with the firm of Leight and Neckeitz, 36 West 44th Street,
New York,

Tommy Martin, since the Monday after graduation,
has been associated in the practice of law with Mr.
Thomas J. Williams, Krise Building, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia. He was married in September, 1938, to Miss Made-
line McCausland. He is president of the Young Demo-
cratic Club of Lynchburg.

JoNATHAN Forp has a job with the Coco-Cola Com-
pany, 1032 South Pulaski Road, Chicago, Illinois.

J. Suoar is associated with Eastern Airlines in At-
lanta, Georgia.

 

The astonishing success of the Washington and Lee
plates by Wedgwood continues daily to bring joy to the
busy confines of the Alumni Office and credit to their
designer, John Graham, 1914. It was with quite a casual
air that your secretary’s secretary, Miss Mary Barclay,
announced to us quite early the other morning that 68
had been sold so far that day. On December 1 total sales
had gone over 3,000.

Better get your order in soon before they’re all gone
or the price goes up, or both!

 

 

 

 

McCRUMS

y

Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY
In Lexington and Vicinity

y
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES

%
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

y

Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

[28]

—_——_— --—--

 

 

~~~ wea TT TT TT OOO eee

 

 

SOLD OOOO OOOO CCC CCCP FO FETIP OO

; a eae
TIT) Te?
prey ttt hg
os 4 .

|
Eo

ane
Went iar

 

Washington and Lee Wedgwood Plates

ORDER FORM

DOO saii..)s. 5 siitahcateieee es aa
ERENT iriisacceaccscsysse0ts. for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates

at $1.50 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped charges colleél from
Boston, Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of Eight plates [ | (or else check desired views below)

Center Views

1. Washington College.................... Pact B. Carmegie Liprary ..is0..isscsceccessvans a]
Re LAER ed ske eos ands coe ccsecasends Ro 6. Doremus Gymnasium ................ pal
g.. Lee-Jackson Home...................... Ped Pa is <a st) | Seep irene: Peal
Site G SMATAEMI NY MAB Specaese sae os co e~-ovessenesee ee 8. Washington College, 1857........-. Bad
Check color choice: [ ] Blue [ | Green | | Mulberry
Ship plates to:
MI phish cei iabavihsiessdvthh sorbsisatenedssasetsensusevecduaveusdipvendséicerappeouaaaaens Rbbenpeneearneleaah es
I tev Lech abeehcsuvusnay et gdnasorarsencsecupsusassadendquesthesseqasetahchdemenlatie as teathy AsiaGetie

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

np AA 4 4 4 4 A A A A A A 4 4 A A A fe he fe he heh ltl tas slr lll las tar... hill... tlhe... tlt lteter th ttt tnt a Lp tt he hi hi th th i hh i i i ti i i i ii ii hi i i hi iii

 

 

 

