umni Magazine

of Washington and [ee University

 

NV ol ume Vil
May, 1932

um bet S

$2.50 a ear

 

H E A mc ee ee: aN sk: SM ee ee

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

cards in the directory. Rates on application.

 

R. E. MOORE _ EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18-’22

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE |
| ATTORNEY-AT-LAW | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAWYER _ Suite 303 First National Bank
| ee Douctas, OBEAR & DoucLas
2 ite | Building
Atlantic City, N. J. Bluefield, W. Va. Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.
BLANK & STOLLER, INC. |
Photographers of men | ALEX M. HITZ yn a Serene
Official Photographers | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW TTORNEX-AT“LAW
for | 25-29 Citizens National Bank
The Alumni Magazine 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building Building
227 E. 45th St., New York | . |
19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Il Atlanta, Georgia Parkersburg, W. Va.
|
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 | PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus Exchange Building. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Tampa, Florida Peoples Bank Building | 811 Boxley Building
sae | Roanoke, Virginia
W. H. Jackson, '08 J. W. Dupree, 21 Lynchburg, Virginia |
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE LAW OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Compliments of | TUCKER AND MASON
E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Suite 845 Mills Building |
Departments lahimeery H. B. Moors, Principal
Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California

Tower Building J. M. Moors, ’08, Assistant Prin.

; Teleph Sutter 3363
Washington, D.C. — r3

 

 

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati
W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and

Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally
good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

Baws. ss a a eA ee ee en Sk cee kl ee Oo ee

 

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a Century

W. and L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

“MicCRUMS” | |For the Sake of Auld Lang

As Always the Gathering Place Of Syne

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
Order a Virginia Smoke

Cured Ham

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

From
Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

ee ee ee ee ee” ee Se ee EOL lhe ee eee el ee eee

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

je tn, Le el Os tal ee eee ee) hw DE Bi tf i a ee eg

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
WaLterR McDOona_p, President E. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer Harry K. Youne, Editor

VOL. VII MAY, 1932 NO. 5

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

 

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

CHARLOTTE, N. C.—Phil Howerton, 1100 Dilworthe Rd., W. Loutsvit_e, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Bldg.
Wasurincron, D. C.—Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Bldg. New Yorx,—lidward W. Lee 1350 Broadway.
Mempuis, TENN.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities. CHarLeston, W. Va.—Wirt W. Donnally, Kana-
wha Valley Bank. Roanoke, VA.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building. LyNcHBURG, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch
Building. BirmincHam, ALtA.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Building. RicHmMonp, Va.—Joe Bernie,
Morris Plan Bank. AtLanta, GA—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. Fort Wortu, Texas—k. S. McCord,
1309 Hoge Building. JacKsonviLLE, Fra.—R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Ave. NEw ORLEANS, LOUISIANA—
E. E. Dufour, 5240 Prytania St. Drrrorr, Micu.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis “Company. San AN-
tonto, TExAs.—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co. Huntincron, W. Va.—J. J. Fitchett, Union
Bank. Norro.K, VaA—Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building. PirrspurcH, PENN.—C. P. Robinson, 25
Hazel Drive, So. Hills Station. PHILADELPHIA, PENN.—E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building. DaLLas,
Trexas.—A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building. AppALACHIAN AssocrATION, BrisTor, ‘TENN.-V A.—J. M. Barker,
Jr., Security Investment Co. Pocononvas CLus, BLUEFIELD, WEsT VircInta—A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

 

GON TEN ES

PAGE PAGE
Our Washington Celebration ............0.0..0004 3 Padirrtri © Meet thes ss in 5.40 205d cat evecaseos hee) 19
Roosevelt and Byrd Riotously Named............ . § emer ees. de aateelh 20
Washington Celebration Visitors...................-. g EN | el ee ey a ee 21
Credit to Whom Credit is Due......................00- 8 Eee PG Segoe capt ten antares dh <-<nnavas' > +>-- an 21
Boetety Of the Cincintiath..j...ciiiecicsicpercec. cess 9 1911 Law: Class’ Annual...../05::..:..... pie 21
Diblaaaha <tc ee 10 RSI oo id is ls asi 2.. <n. 0, nett ono 21
Interesting Exhibit of Washingtoniana............ 11 Rees OT” PR iii. i.....00 0 22
Alumnus is Noted Author. ...............::.:c::eeee 11 Alumnus Married in Chapel.......... tena tee 23

Baseball and Track Draw Interest.................... 12 Deaths:
Governor Compliments Dr. Tucket.................... 14 Martin P. Burks, Jr.,.’03.:.....5.:.2--.....-.-... 23
American Boy Scholarships.................0:00000008 14 Walter L. McCorkle, ’78...............:::::00 23
Elaborate Finals Planned......................:::00000 15 Dr Bea Fie Ramee petro BER corey s 0-0 ceedeseeenecte 24
Eberhart Elected Headmaster........................... 16 Joseph R. Long, '95..0.0...... sees eeten 24
ye. ge ch gs (dk S re) 9. ee eee 16 Major Joshua Fry Bullitt, '78.................... 25
| PME OR CMIBIIIIS) acct ithnss oc yen.odeecnv nsec. 16 Git TO catte Pa FU. oiaiscsss. 25.28 a ze: 25
Annual Business Conference.......................... 17 Edmund Fleming Burk, Jr., °13................ 25
SS ERAN Regie oe ptt ty staviencn oa seenve one ee, 17 Glenn Brown, °74............ccceeeieeeseen 26
19S 5 rN crea gency esc ecse cen. 17 George A. Skinmer..............c cere 26
Engagement Announced..............::cce cee 18 Noel’ Ee. Barnes 27 eesti sc. ete. 26
Saturday Evening Post Comments.................... 18 Rev. Charles E. Sullivan, ’80................... 26
Beas. «i oxaicosis sen sencgues PRM TD 72 P5002 2-8 18 Marcus S. Moreman, ’68.................:::0005 26
George Gordon Battle is Host..............0.:.0 18 Robert F , Pema ete csnsosnes nes tied ivnenteniebans 26

 

 

 

[1]

eee Pic Ales Be ee oe Be ies A Pe ln eee

 

 

Washington’s Investment Endures in Modern University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E oar ae IN

I

ms Oa he: AA 2 ee

 

Our Washington Celebration

HE celebration at Washington and Lee hon-
oring George Washington, Patron of Learn-
ing, brought a number of prominent figures to
the campus and was featured by a number of interest-
ing exercises. As so aptly expressed by the Hon. John
W. Davis, who presided at the convocation in Lee
Chapel, the day was in memory of a man and an event.
The man, George Washington, he described as the nobl-
est figure who ever stood in the fore front of a nation.
The event was the
happy day in the
history of Wash-
ington and Lee
when Washington
gave it the right
to bear his name.

The Chapel was
filled for the ex-
ercises with mem-
bers of the board,
honored guests
and faculty mem-
bers occupying the
rostum. The prin-
ciple address of
the morning was a
polished and dis-
tinquished address
made with dra-
matic delivery by
Dr. Dixon Ryan
Fox of Columbia
University on “Washington as a Representative Man.”
Dr. Fox pictured Washington as a man of action, not
an average man, but one well rounded in those traits
that we call American. He could not be termed as a
man of subtle intellectuality or brilliance, but a man of
action, resourceful and trustworthy.

Dr. Fox paid a tribute to Washington and Lee ex-
pressing his deep appreciation of the opportunity to
stand on historic ground. known wherever history is
known. We are becoming historically minded and
need to know traditions if we are to know along what
path success is to be achieved, the speaker said. He
followed, through the path of two centuries, the dif-
ferent pictures drawn of Washington by biographers
and historians, noting first the stage of idolizing Wash-
ington as a hero, then the recognition of the British
side, the more recent debunking biographies and the
present period of celebration restoring him to his full
statute as an even greater man. He described the

i

 

 

Left to right—Dr. F. P. Gatngs, Dr. J. C. Firzparricx, Gov. Joun G.
Pottarp, Hon. Joun W. Davis, Hon. L. A. Warres, Cor. E. E. Hume.
FiTzPATRICK, POLLARD, WATRES, AND HuME received honorary degrees

[3]

varied interests of Washington as national in their
scope, picturing him as a man widely traveled and
known in all parts of the country when travel was rare
and ascribing to him the position of hero for all sec-
tions, overshadowing sectional heroes. Among the
many interests in Washington’s life he pointed to his
interest in farming, as a promoter of American busi-
ness, and as a patron of learning. He paid tribute to
Martha Washington as a fitting consort with a serenity
needed for her
position and in
closing painted
a _ chronological
picture of Wash-
ington the Man of
Action.

The other ad-
dress of the morn-
ing was made by
Colonel Edgar
Hume, President
of the Cincinnati
Society of Vir-
ginia.

Dr. Gaines at
the close of the
exercises, with
fitting brief trib-
utes, presented the
following honor-
ary degrees: To
Colonel Hume,
the degree of Doctor of Science; to John Clement Fitz-
patrick, Archivist of the Library of Congress, Doctor
of Letters; to Louis Arthur Watres, President of
Washington National Memorial Association and Gov-
ernor John Garland Pollard degrees of Doctor of Laws
and a like degree to John Hill Morgan of New York,
who was unable to attend. All of these, Dr. Gaines
said, had contributed to a better understanding and
greater appreciation of Washington. Musical numbers
were furnished at the convocation by the Washington
and Lee Glee Club.

LUNCHEON BROADCAST OVER NATIONAL Hookup

The luncheon tendered by the University at 1
o'clock in the dining hall to one hundred and fifty guests
was one of the most interesting parts of the program
and from 2 to 3 o’clock was broadcast over the National
Broadcasting System. President Gaines presided and
representatives of a large number of patriotic organi-

» me: | B.S Bo Se a) ee > ee

zations and universities were in attendance. A number
on the program which elicited appreciative interest
from the whole company was the spirituals sung by
the Lexington Nightingales, who have contributed much
to a number of functions here. At the close of the
luncheon hour Dr. Gaines introduced a number of

prominent guests.

Hon. John W.
Davis, as acting
rector of the Uni-
versity brought
greetings to the
guests, acclaiming
the fact that the
Washington gift in
this day was still
bearing a return to
the University as
quite an achieve-
ment.

He was followed
by Governor John
Garland Pollard of
Virginia, who
pleased the com-
pany with his time-
ly remarks, . open-
ing with the asser-
tion that Washing-
ton had first made
known to the Gov-
ernor of Virginia
that he would present his canal stock to Liberty Hall
Academy and announcing that as the present Governor
of Virginia he was ready to receive similar notifications
of gifts to the University. Virginia did not found nor
contribute to the support of Washington and Lee, the
Governor said, but it is one of Virginia’s most precious
possessions. We love it because it bears the name of
Washington, who gave us our liberties, and Lee our
ideal of Christian manhood; because of the useful men
it has sent forth, because of the great men who have
served it as president and the great man who is now
presiding over its destinies; for its traditions and its
record. Other institutions have contributed to Vir-
ginia’s greatness and received financial aid, but Wash-
ington and Lee has served Virginia without money and
without price. “I come to acknowledge Virginia’s
debt of gratitude to you,” the governor concluded.

An attractive informal talk was made by Sir Josiah
Stamp, Fellow of the British Academy, who brought
greetings from England. He assured the company that
the Washington period in history was far enough away
to be viewed without prejudice and that England joined
whole heartedly in this celebration. Likening the pres-

 

 

 

DR DIXON RYAAS FOX

[4]

I

wm A aw OA og a A oe
ent crisis to that of the Revolutionary times, he said,
approach it with the same capacity to look to the future
that characterized Washington. He mentioned the
legendary attitude toward Washington now disappear-
ing, attributing as examples, patience of Job, cruelty
to Nero, ambition to Alexander and to Washington for
instance, veracity in childhood. To Mussolini, he at-
tributed the legend of power, but quoted a friend as say-
ing he would like to overhear a conversation between
Mr. and Mrs. Mussolini, intimating that the legend
might be dispelled. He complimented highly Dr. L.
C. Helderman of Washington and Lee on the charm of
his new book on Washington.

Mrs. Lowell Fletcher Hobart, President General
of the Daughters of the American Revolution, brought
greetings from that organization, calling on the youth
of the land to return to the ideals of Washington to
bring the nation out of its present trying period.

The last talk was made by Congressman Sol Bloom,
Director of the George Washington Bi-Centennial
Commission, who described the movement and work
of the commission as an endeavor to educate people as
to the life of George Washington. Every nation in the
civilized world, he said, is holding these celebrations
and there are 800,000 committees in the United States
now functioning and holding 2,000 programs every
day pertaining to Washington’s life. The congressman
expressed some hesitation at trying to tell Virginians
about Washington, but claimed that he was a Virginian,
because every American claimed two states, the state
of his birth and Virginia. He said this gathering was
the most appropriate and fitting he had attended during
the bi-centennial.

Other items on the Washington day program in-
cluded a simultaneous luncheon to Alumni and visitors
in Reid Hall; a tea for official representatives at the
President’s house at 4:30 P. M.; the Washington play
and a dance at night, and a baseball game with the Uni-
versity of Maryland at 3 P. M., to all of which the
guests were invited. There was also, during the day,
on display in the library an exhibit of Washingtoniana.

Dr. Gaines announced at the luncheon that two
Washington trees had been planted on the Campus
during the day; one by the Blue Ridge Garden Club
of Lexington and one as the gift of Mrs. John D.
Clothier. ‘The handsome menu covers were given by
the White Sulphur Springs and flowers for the
speakers’ table by Warren J. Davis of Pennsylvania,
while Van Horn of Philadelphia took a special interest
in the costumes for the play, he said.

 

Born to Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Gilliam February
29, 1932, a daughter, Louise Augusta.

en a ee ee ee ee ee ere

ae ahd ae

ile eS ak

ee ee ee ee) eee

nt il ln eli i ali

 

i ee aN

SES ae te Sy Ae egg

 

Roosevelt and Byrd Riotously Named

 

DELEGATES AT Mock CONVENTION

FRANKLIN JONES 732

 

FTER 48 hours of cigar-smoking and bedlam,
indulged in by the entire student body April 26
and 27 in Doremus gymnasium, Washington
and Lee’s sixth mock Democratic convention laid in the
laps of the gods “Roosevelt and Byrd” as its prophecy
for the national party ticket of 1932.

The selection involved no great upset, although
some Baker backers before the convention thought they
could deadlock Roosevelt and swing the delegates to
their candidate as Washington and Lee did in 1924,
when Davis was oracularly named as Smith and
McAdoo stalemated each other. The Baker boom came
too early, however, and Roosevelt made almost steady
progress toward his required two-thirds majority.

News of the 1932 student parody was carried
throughout the South Atlantic section on Associated
Press wires, and both days the United Press sent out

 

 

 

 

[5]

full feature stories on their national service, spreading
the yarn on many front pages of United States papers
in Connecticuit, Oklahoma, etc. A direct Western Un-
ion wire in the gymnasium dispensed this news to the
press associations, “The Daily Democrat” staff work-
ed feverishly in the press section getting out two edi-
tions of a convention paper.

The students were whipped into the mood for the
convention when they were addressed in an assembly
which preceded the first session by Claude G. Bowers,
who castigated the administration and the Republican
party in much the same tone as his famous keynote
speech in Houston in 1928. He remained to observe
the first session as an. official representative of the
Democratic National Committee.

Ross L. Malone, Roswell, N. M., took the stand
as secretary in the first session, and Tyree Taylor was
brought forward as temporary chairman. Taylor is

© ioe a es Se a ae

I

i ee eee

 

president of the Young Democratic Clubs of America,
and he struck a keynote with the expected fervor, dis-
crediting and reviling the Republican administration and
President Hoover, indicting them for misleading the
American people in the crisis. The make-believe dele-
gates gave him an ovation.

H. Graham Morison, Johnson City, Tenn., be-
came the permanent chairman and delivered a heated
oration continuing to harangue the present administra-
tion. Tumultuous shouts and a final storm of applause
greeted his diatribe, but the real noise was reserved for
the second session, to convene in the evening.

Banners, placards, and any instrument that would
produce loud sounds were suddenly in evidence as
the second session began and preparations were made
for the roll call of states. Chairman Morison finally
achieved a semblance of order and everyone was ready
to hear Alabama’s votes for Underwood. Alabama
yielded to the State of New York, however, and Mr.
Roberts was recognized by the chairman. “He is a
man that has never sacrificed the dictates of his con-
science to personal gain,’ began Roberts as he pre-
sented Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt of the state of
New York.

He pointed out that Roosevelt had been trained in
the science of government from his earliest youth and
tested in character over many years. “His record is
untarnished by the petty efforts of those whose ink is
blent with filth. Let us choose a man,” he con-
cluded, “whose achievements alone are a monument
of conviction of his fitness and whose platform has
principles which protected our party in infancy, guard-
ed her in youth, and now guide her in maturity.”

As Mr. Roberts stepped down from the platform
a mountain of applause and noise met him. The New
York delegation, headed by an Austin car, covered
with “Support Roosevelt” banners, began a parade
around the convention hall. As they passed the various
state delegations that were favoring Roosevelt the pa-
rade became larger and created a spectacle of pandemon-
ium throughout the hall. The chairman attempted to
call the convention to order time after time, but to no
avail. The parade and demonstration for Roosevelt
continued for a quarter of an hour before the roll call
proceeded.

The next man to be nominated was Governor AI-
bert C. Ritchie of Maryland. He was presented by
Mr. V. V. Harris in one of the most stirring nomina-
tion speeches of the convention. Harris outlined the
policies and platform of Ritchie, and stressed the states
theory that has made the Governor a national figure.
The fact that he is in favor of repeal of the Volstead
Act was pointed and received a tremendous reception
from the delegates. The Ritchie supporters fell in line
and sang campaign songs as they paraded through

[ 6 ]

the convention hall increasing their number constantly.

Alfred E. Smith was the third of the leaders to be
nominated. Mr. Bernard Davis of Rhode Island be-
gan by stating the qualifications that the man for pres-
ident must have and then showed how Smith was the
culminating point of these great qualifications, namely,
leadership, experience, honesty, and an ability to make
the popular government function. ‘Because he has
these qualifications,” stated Davis in conclusion, “the
former governor of New York will make an efficient
president . . . but it is because of his rare faculty of
sympathetic understanding that I prophecy that he will”
make a great president.”

Then followed a demonstration that recalled the
convention of 1928. The Smith backers paraded around
the hall with banners of the “happy warrior” and cre-
ated a sensation almost equal to that of Smith’s fel-
low statesman, and opponent, Roosevelt.

When order was restored in the convention, the
gentleman from Ohio, Mr. Curtis, was recognized by
the chair. Mr. Curtis had the pleasure and honor of
placing the name of Newton D. Baker in nomination
for the presidency. He began, “In the name of Ohio
I nominate for the office of president of the United
States, Ohio’s gifted and brilliant son, of quiet dig-
nity, superb poise and spotless character; pre-eminent
in leadership, in law, in statesmanship and in intellec-
tual and moral greatness . . . Newton D. Baker.”

Curtis summarized his accomplishments as a pri-
vate citizen of Ohio and as secretary of war under
Woodrow Wilson. He explained Baker’s stand on the
problems that are now confronting the nation, such as
the tariff, war debts, the League of Nations and pro-
hibition. And finally he stated the support Baker
would be able to mobilize if he were nominated, and
thus insure victory next November.

As the roll call of the states progressed many fav-
orite sons were nominated. In this list were Gover-
nor “Alfalfa Bill” Murray of Oklahoma; J. Hamilton
Lewis of Illinois; Governor Harry Byrd of Virginia;
former governor Huey P. Long of Louisiana; Owen
D. Young. of New York, and John Nance Garner of
Texas.

Approaching the platform dressed in a “stetson”
hat in the spirit of the west, Mr. Cremin of Oklahoma
nominated Murray, whose platform consisted of
“bread, butter, bacon and beans.” Cremin appealed
with the fact that Murray was the friend and sympa-
thizer of the farmer and the laborer, and that he would
do everything to alleviate the present economic crisis
into which the Republican party had led the nation.

Texas was then recognized and Mr. George D.
McClure gave the name of the present speaker of the
house, John N. Garner, in nomination. | McClure
stressed the necessity for the party to select a man who

: eS a 2 e M. N

I

a: eo ee A Ge ah eee

 

‘will unite the party. Ballyhooing his native state, the
delegate said ‘Texas is so big that the people of
Brownsville call the people of Dallas, Yankees. The
citizens of El Paso sneer at the citizens of Texarkana
as being snobs from the far East. John Garner is a
product of Texas and Texas is the mother of men,
great men.”’ He went on to describe the vastness of
the state by saying, “If all the steers in Texas were
one big steer he would stand with his front feet in the
gulf of Mexico, and one hind foot in the Hudson Bay,
the other in the Arctic ocean, and with his tail brush
the mist from the Aurora Borealis.”

The demonstration for Garner was one that all
persons from the southwest could appreciate. ‘‘Ten-
gallon” hats, six-shooters and high top boots were the
dress of those in the Garner parade. California, New
Mexico, Wyoming and many of the other western
states joined the Garner demonstration.

In nominating former Gov. Harry Byrd, Mr. Mar-
tin Burks drew comparisons and analogies with the
other sons of the “Old Dominion”—Jefferson, Wash-
ington and Wilson. He expressed the opinions of
Byrd on important national issues, and pleaded for the
support to another famous son of Virginia.

Illinois’ favorite son, J. Hamilton Lewis, had his
name placed in nomination when Mr. K. A. Smith,
chairman of the delegation, introduced his name.
Smith lost no time describing the chaos of Republican-
ism into which Illinois had fallen and how she was seek-
ing her way out under the leadership of J. Hamilton
Lewis. “He has begged, worked, slaved for years
and finally in this Republican state he has acquired an
ever increasing following.”

Mr. James Sparks of Louisiana was then given rec-
ognition from the chairman, and he proceeded with the
nomination of their favorite son, Huey P. Long. “I
would remind you of his record as Governor of his
native state and of his service to his party,” began Mr.
Sparks. Finally, I would commend him to you as a
man of the people, who possesses a sympathetic realiza-
tion of the problems that face the nation. ‘Pot-likker’
Huey P. Long would honor the position which we
seek to confer upon him.”

‘Mr. James Freeman of Florida made the con-
cluding nominating speech when he placed in nomina-
tion the name of Owen D. Young. As it was at a late
hour and the delegates were becoming tired and rest-
less, Freeman limited his speech to a few brief re-
marks, and the convention was adjourned until 9:30
the next morning.

The session had been a strain on all of the dele-
gates, as there had been continual outbursts of ap-
plause, ringing of bells and beating of drums, and end-
less parades through the hall on the slightest provoca-
tion. This strain was apparent when the students re-

[7]

convened. ‘There was not only an absence of noise-
making apparatus, but there were also many absent
or late for the first roll call of the states.

Mr. A. S. Carr, chairman of the committee on
platform and resolutions, was recognized. He read
the platiorm that the committee had adopted. It con-
tained sections pertaining to a gradual lowering of the
tariff, a stand for entrance into the World Court, and
a demand for the referendum on the eighteenth amend-
ment.

In the call for the discussion of the proposed
platform, Mr. Mathis of Illinois gave the minority re-
port which favored a repeal of the Volstead Act. After
debate over the problem, the chairman called for a
vote of the convention on whether they should write
in the article concerning prohibition as for repeal or
for referendum. ‘The motion to adopt the platform
as read, with the referendum clause, was carried by a
majority of 488-377.

Both Mr. Carr and Mr. Mathis received tremen-
dous ovations of approval as they took issue against
the present prohibition problem. The discussion of
this national problem was similar to the discussion for
the advocation of Women’s Suffrage in the convention
of 1916.

Chairman Morison then called for the first ballot
for the office of president, stating that 543 votes were
necessary for any one man to be elected. The “favor-
ite sons” polled a large number of votes on this first
ballot. It resulted in showing that Roosevelt was the
strong candidate. The count revealed: Roosevelt, 294;
Baker, 116; Garner, 115; Smith, 92; Byrd, 59; Mur-
ray, 49; Lewis, 42; Ritchie, 36; and Young, 5.

The second ballot showed that Roosevelt was still
holding his own support, and that Baker was gaining
and taking some of Garner’s and Smith’s support. The
count was: Roosevelt, 295; Baker, 184; Garner, 90;
Smith, 70; Murray, 61; Byrd, 50; Lewis, 48; Long,
19: and Ritchie, 16.

The third ballot proved that the “stop Roosevelt”
campaign was not at all effective. Roosevelt went up
to 330, but a Baker boom sent the former Secretary
of War up to 210. Garner was the third high with
98 votes.

Still trying to get a majority of 543 votes for one
candidate the convention went into the fourth ballot,
On this vote Roosevelt came up to within 130 votes
of the required number when he got 408. Baker seem-
ed to fall back to his position of the second ballot of
184. A Garner rally came with this ballot and the
speaker scored 120 votes. Smith and Ritchie were
still hanging on with a few scattered votes.

The chairman then accepted a motion for ad-
journment for an hour and a half, and the delegates
left the hall and politicked with each other to support

wm Ue me SS ee

this man or that man, whomever they favored.

In the afternoon session the chairman proceeded
with the business of balloting. The fifth proved that
Roosevelt could be defeated if that were the wish of
the uninstructed delegates. On this ballot the Garner
boom was still being concentrated and resulted in
Roosevelt slumping to 358 and Garner skyrocketing
to 235, while Baker held his support of 140. As the
result of this ballot was announced there was tremen-
dous confusion and excitement in the anti-Roosevelt
quarters.

The sixth ballot was called for and the Garner
boom had failed. Roosevelt regained his former posi-
tion and strength with a vote of 429. The Baker sup-
port had started another rally and succeeded in en-
trenching their candidate more strongly with 245 votes.
Garner had dropped to 101.

The seventh and eighth ballots showed increase in
the Roosevelt and Baker votes with Roosevelt ap-
proaching the required on each ballot. The other
possibilities in the race had been dropped and the con-
test had narrowed down to the two principles.

The chairman called the ninth ballot, which proved
to be final. The delegates, realizing that Roosevelt
would win on this ballot since he had been so near on
the last one, began to throw their support to him. As
the balloting proceeded and most of the delegations were
swinging to Roosevelt, the convention again became a
wild scene of confusion and applause. The din was
stimulated even more by the announcement that Roose-
velt had received 609 votes and was the candidate to
run for the presidency.

With some difficulty the chairman got the conven-
tion to continue its business. The nomination for the
vice-presidency brought a greater response than was
predicted in the pre-election talk. There were ten men
nominated. This group was made up of favorite sons
who are known in the field of politics and government
throughout the entire nation. Of these nominees for
vice-president, the foremost were Harry Byrd of Vir-
ginia, Jim Reed of Missouri, and Cordell Hull of
Tennessee.

On the first ballot there was no sign of a possible
chance for one man to receive the required number of
votes for the election. However, after the boom for
Hull on the second ballot and the support of Reed on
the third, the convention went practically unani-
mously for Harry Flood Byrd. Following this vic-
tory the Virginia delegation with many other delega-
tions from all parts of the nation celebrated in a dem-
onstration that lacked the roar and din of the first day’s
session, but was equal to the others in size.

The following day the chairman of the convention
received a telegram saying, “I greatly appreciate your
message of notification and wish I could have been at

I

[8 ]

eo Am GS Oe. 2 oe eS

the mock convention. My greetings to all my dele-’
gates. (Signed) Franklin D. Roosevelt.”

 

WASHINGTON CELEBRATION VISITORS

Among the guests and alumni in addition to the
speakers and degree recipients who attended the cele-
bration were Mrs. A. H. Richard, regent, Mt. Vernon
Ladies’ Association; Mrs. Bun Wylie, Atlanta, regent,
of Georgia D. A. R.; Miss Anne M. Washington,
hostess of bicentennial art exhibit, Washington, D. C.

Dr. Alexander G. Brown, Jr., president, Virginia
Sons of the Revolution; William B. McGroatry, presi-
dent, Washington Society of Alexandria; Mrs. Alice
Hunt Bartlett, bicentennial chairman of National Arts
Commission; Col. H. H. Dodge, superintendent of Mt.
Vernon; Mrs. John A. Lejeune, Washington Commit-
tee, Colonial Dames of America. Mrs. Gory Hogg, vice-
regent, W. Virginia. D. A. R.; Mrs. W. C. Flournoy,
past president, Virginia Daughters of the Confederacy.

President Meta Glass, Sweet Briar College; Pres-
ident C. J. Smith, Roanoke College; President J. P.
McConnell, Radford State Teachers College; Dean
C. G. Maphis, University of Virginia; Dr. William
R. Vance, Yale University, former professor in the W.
and L. Law School; Dean Joseph A. Tucker, Hollins
College; General John A. Lejeune, Superintendent of
V. M. I.; Dr. William Spencer Currell of Columbia,
S. C., formerly of Washington and Lee.

Captain Robert Massie, of Lynchburg, president
of the V. M. I. board of visitors; Judge Charles Mc-
Dermott, New York, and James R. Caskie, Lynchburg,
members of the Washington and Lee board; former
Governor E. Lee Trinkle, Robert H. Angell, T. X.
Parsons, George S. Cheney, Roanoke; Mott Moore,
Lynchburg; Lieutenant-Governor James H. Price,
Richmond.

CREDIT TO WHOM CREDIT IS DUE

With permission of the Editor of the County
News, we are using in this issue of the Alumni Maga-
azine the excellent writeup of the Washington Cele-
bration which appeared in that publication. The
County News has been most generous in granting us
this courtesy and it is deeply appreciated by the Alum-
ni Secretary.

 

 

Roy Bryant, ’16, who flew over the North Pole
with Admiral Byrd in 1926, on May 6 paid his first
visit to the Washington and Lee campus since he left
school. Roy is now living in New York City, where
he is in the brokerage business, and passed through
Lexington on the way to New Orleans on his honey-
moon. Mr. and Mrs. Bryant were among the fans
who saw the Washington and Lee baseball team defeat
Duke University on Wilson Field.

 

E A ee IN

I

ee. Gre ae Gere es Ee

 

Society of the Cincinnati

CoLt. EpcAar HUME

R. PRESIDENT: Members of the Board of
I \ ) Trustees, Faculty and Student Body, Ladies
and Gentlemen.

There is no place where a representative of the So-
ciety of the Cincinnati could feel more at home, more
sure of a welcome, and more proud of Virginia lin-
eage than here. The Society which I have the honor
to represent feels that its history is inseparably bound
with that of this great institution. Let me recall to you
briefly a bit of that history.

In May, 1783 the Continental Army was about to
disband ; the task of achieving American independence
has been completed; the officers were about to sepa-
rate. Sad were their hearts at the severing of ties which
for eight years had been cemented by their blood. They
desired to form an association which by periodic meet-
ings might enable them to gather, keep alive their
friendships, and foster the ideals for which they fought.
They recalled the life of that illustrious Roman, Lucius
Quintus Cincinnatus, who left all to serve the Repub-
lic, who had quit his plough to answer the call of the
Country, and when that duty had been performed,
when Roman arms under his leadership had been suc-
cessful, refused honors proffered him by a grateful
Senate and returned again to his plough, the ideal of
Roman virtue and a model to his countrymen. Seeking
to emulate Cincinnatus in peace as well as in war, they
formed the Order, or Society of the Cincinnati—‘to
endure as long as they themselves should endure or
their eldest male posterity after them,” to quote the
words of the Institution.

What was more natural when it came to the selec-
tion of a president, than the unanimous choice of him
who had.in his own person so strikingly resembled
Cincinnatus of old? Who could have been chosen than
Washington, first President General of the Cincinnati,
and retained that office until his death, being succeeded
by Alexander Hamilton, and in turn by Charles Cotes-
worth Pinckney, and so on. On the death of a member
of the Cincinnati, he was succeeded by his eldest son,
and thus on down to today, according to the law of
primogeniture.

Branches of the Cincinnati were constituted in
each of the thirteen newly born States, and in France.
That of Virginia was organized at the Town House,
Fredericksburg on October 6, 1783. Virginia had furn-
ished to the cause more officers than any other colony,

[9]

and the Virginia Society of the Cincinnati was large.
It had been agreed that each officer on becoming a
member should contribute a month’s pay, the fund to
be used to further the objects of the Order, not the
least of which was the care of members and their fam-
ilies who might be in need of such assistance.

With the gradual separation of the members, due
to the removal of many to the newly formed State of
Kentucky, and the Northwest Territory, the Society
came to believe that it would be wise to present the fund
that had been contributed by the members, to a worthy
educational institution, since it would appear that the
need for assistance by members and their families was
not likely to be so great in future. Therefore at the
meeting of the Cincinnati held in the Capitol of Vir-
ginia at Richmond, on Wednesday, December 16, 1807,
and stimulated no doubt by Washington’s personal gift,
the following resoultion was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the whole of the funds be pre-
sented to the Seminary of Learning, denominated
the Washington Academy, near the town of Lex-
ington, in the county of Rockbridge, as an endow-
ment to the said Seminary, as now constituted, and
in like manner in any future elevation of its char-
acter, on this express condition: that there shall
be established and continued in the said seminary
a military school, in which shall be taught (at least)
the science of Fortification and Gunnery.
RESOLVED, That the General Assembly shall
be solicited to pass a provisional law for the pur-
pose of carrying into effect, in due time, the pre-
ceding resolutions.

The date of transfer of the fund was left to the
Standing Committee of the Society, and accordingly at
the meeting on December 19, 1822, it was decided that
the time had come for the presentation to be made. The
Trustees of the Washington Academy agreed to the
terms of the gift and on May 14, 1824 the Treasurer
of the Society, Major Gibbon, deposited the funds of
the Cincinnati, amounting to some $24,000 into the
Treasury of the State where it was to remain until the
Trustees of Washington College were ready to re-
ceive it.

This, Mr. President, is, in a word, the origin of the
gift of the entire fund to the Society of the Cincinnati
in the State of Virginia to Washington College.

That the fund was wisely given, none can deny.

. orn. Ac eS eee
One may also wonder if the founders of our Society
were not in a measure endowed with prophetic vision,
for in their own words, they anticipated the ‘future
elevation of the character of the College.’ The peer-
less leader of our people who came to direct the des-
tinies of this institution in 1865, did “elevate” its al-
ready high character. General Lee may rightly said to
be a son of the Society of the Cincinnati, for his great
father, “Light Horse Harry” Lee, was one of our Orig-
inal members, and a month’s pay of General Lee’s
father’s money that he earned in the defense of Vir-
ginia’s rights, is today a part of the endowment of this
institution that bears his noble son’s name combined
with that of the first President of the Cincinnati.

Last year there was celebrated at Yorktown, the
sesquicentennial anniversary of the victory that sealed
the independence of the United States. From France,
as guests of the nation and of Virginia, came the de-
scendants of those great Frenchmen who contributed
to the American cause a century and a half ago. There
were among them the descendants of General the Mar-
quis de Lafayette, the present Marquis de Rochambeau,
and Marquis de Grasse, descendants of the leaders of
France’s land and sea forces, which, with Washington’s
followers, won the victory on October 19, 1783. There
was also the Duke de Broglie, President of the Order
of the Cincinnati in France, descendant of the Prince
de Broglie of Yorktown fame; likewise the Duke de
Noailles, descendant of that Duke of Noailles who rep-
resented France in arranging the terms of Lord Corn-
wallis’s surrender. The ancestors of these men were
original members of the Society of the Cincinnati and
their representatives today have succeeded to member-
ship by right of descent.

To commemorate the hundred and fiftieth anni-
versary of the capitulation of Yorktown, the Society
of the Cincinnati in the State of Virginia, caused to be
struck a medal of bronze, bearing on one side the Eagle
of the Order and on the other a base relief of the York-
town surrender, with vignettes of Washington, Ro-
chambeau, DeGrassee, and Lafayette. Our Society
desired that copies of the medal be presented to the
distinguished representatives of France, the Presidents
of the United States and of the French Republic, and
a few men of note, of both nations who had, by their
efforts or the positions they occupy, contributed to the
ideals for which the Cincinnati exists.

I

We feel that to no man could this medal be pre- —

sented with more propriety than to one who has achiev-
ed great things in the cause of education of the youth
of the South and of the nation, and who presides over
this “Seminary of Learning,” to use the old words,
to which Washington, our first President General,
contributed, of his means, and to which the Cincinnati
presented in its entirety the sacred fund made up of a

i ec Mi: AM dga ca  i

month’s pay of so many of Virginia’s officers in the
revolution.

Mr. President, allow me to read the certificate to
which I hold in my hand:

1781—1931

The Society of the Cincinnati in the State of
Virginia To Commemorate the Sesquicentennial
Anniversary of the Siege of Yorktown, Virginia
and the Surrender of the Troops commanded by
the Earl of Cornwallis to the allied American and
French land and sea Forces,

THE SOCIETY OF THE CINCINNATI IN
THE STATE OF VIRGINIA has caused to be
struck a Medal commemorative of this great
Event.

A COPY of this Medal is hereby presented to

DR. FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES
President of Washington and Lee University

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF: I, the President
of the Society, have hereunto set my hand and
caused the Seal of the Society to be affixed at
Richmond in the State of Virginia, this nineteenth
day of October, in the year of Our Lord, one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-one, and in the
year of the Society of the Cincinnati the one hun-
dred and forty-ninth.

By order
John A. Coke, Jr., Edgar Erskine Hume,
Secretary President

I ask you, Sir, to accept this medal as a token of
the respect and affection of the Society of the Cincin-
nati for the President of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

 

PORTRAITS LOANED

Washington and Lee loaned to the government
the portraits of Washington and Lafayette by Peale
which hang in the Lee chapel. The portraits were on
display in Washington in the Corcoran Art Gallery
as a feature of the Bi-Centennial celebration, but were
returned here in time for the University’s special cel-
ebration on April 12.

The University was reluctant to grant the request
for this loan, but upon receipt of a petition signed by
many officials and Congressmen, decided to accede to
their wishes.

 

Born to Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Dickey April 15,
a son, Robert W. Dickey, Jr.

[ 10 ]

mee PAS te 2 IN

mete ae fA ee a

 

Interesting Exhibit of Washingtoniana

N EXHIBIT of Washingtoniana on display at
the Carnegie Library was an interesting fea-
ture of the Washington celebration at Wash-

ington and Lee. The priceless mementos of Washington
which the University owns and other material of histor-
ical value were visited by a large number of persons.

One of the most valuable items in the collection
was one recently brought to light by a professor who
noticed an old document hanging in an inconspicuous
place in the Lee chapel. The professor showed it to
Dr. L. C. Helderman who had recently visited the
Washington collection in the Library of Congress. Dr.
Helderman recognized the paper as being the original
deed which Washington wrote conveying his gift of
one hundred shares in the James River company to
Liberty Hall academy. The deed had apparently been
lost for years and Dr. Helderman had made an unsuc-
cessful attempt to locate it. A cheap frame surrounds
the deed, which will now have the care which it de-
serves.

Letters in the collection show the various steps
taken in securing the gift for the struggling
academy. There is a copy of the letter from
the board of Liberty Hall academy dated Dec. 1.
1796, asking Washington for the donation of the 100
shares. The original of the letter is in the Library of
Congress. Samuel Houston, on behalf of the academy,
wrote to Washington thanking him for the gift, and
the University owns a copy of this letter, the original
of which is also in Washington. A splendid specimen
of Washington’s handwriting, which was noteworthy
for its legibility, is a letter from Washington to Sam-
uel Houston acknowledging his letter. It is still very
legible. A letter, much faded and time-worn, from
Washington to his officers and soldiers is also among
the collection.

Other Washington mementoes were the pistols
given by Washington to G. W. P. Custis, and by him
given to the college; a razor which belonged to Wash-
ington; a cameo of Washington’s head; and Wash-
ington’s book plate. Martha Washington was repre-
sented in the exhibit by a religious book containing
her autograph and by a book which had been present-
ed to her by the author. The title was Letters of
Washington To Sir John Sinclair on Agriculture and
Other Interesting Subjects. It was published in 1800.

One of Washington’s books, The Beauties of
Johnson was inscribed with his signature. The seal of
Liberty Hall academy was on display with a clipping

 

from the County News describing how it was found
by workmen some years ago when a sewer pipe was
being laid between the old Irvine house on Washington
Street and the row of lawyers’ offices near the Court
House.

For nearly 200 years, Washington has been a popu-
lar subject for biographies. A shelf in the exhibit
space contained biographies published before 1850,
among which was a five volume Life of John Marshall
published in 1805, and another edition of the same
book containing the list of subscribers to this biography
gives the Lexington library as one of the subscribers.
An early edition of Parson Weem’s famous biography,
to which we owe the cherry story, is one of the most
prized possessions of the University. The title is The
Life of George Washington; with curious anecdotes
equally honorable to himself and exemplary to his
young countrymen. ‘The date is 1840.

That Washington ranks among our statesmen as
one of the most prolific writers, is shown by a fourteen
volume collection of his writings edited by ‘Tared
Sparks, the first professor of history in this country.
His diaries alone fill four volumes and his official pap-
ers published by the Library of Congress, are form-
idable in appearance. Biographies and other books
about Washington from the earliest to the most recent
complete the exhibit.

 

ALUMNUS IS NOTED AUTHOR

Harvey Fergusson, who graduated with an A.B.
degree from Washington and Lee in 1911, has had an
interesting career as a writer.

He was born at Albuquerque, New Mexico, Janu-
ary 28, 1890. He received his preparatory training at
the New Mexico Military Institute and later came to
Washington and Lee for his college work. He joined
the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity and was well known as
an inter-collegiate debater.

Fergusson’s father was a Representative from New
Mexico and the son followed his father to Washington
and became a reporter on the Washington Herald.
Other newspaper work followed and he subsequently
joined the Washington bureau of the Chicago Record-
Herald.

In 1914 he became editor of the F. J. Haskin news-
paper syndicate, where he remained until 1922. 4

His career as a novelist dates from 1921.

[ 11 |

    
   

ee 25 Aoi:L AU ON M JA «2G é-A- 223 ae

Baseball and Track Draw Large A

wu \HE General’s spring sports card included com- Jack Jarrett, the ace of the pitching staff, won six
A: prehensive schedules in baseball, track, tennis, out of the seven games pitched to date. His only loss

and golf. Baseball and track drew the largest was the close two to one defeat handed the locals by
amount of interest from the spectators’ point of
view, with the former garnering a lion’s share of
the enthusiasm. At the time of this writing, the
baseball team had played fourteen games, with
six more yet to be played. The varsity track
squad had participated in three dual meets, with
one more on its schedule, besides the State and
Conference meets, held May 7 and 14 respectively.
Tennis and golf, while receiving a minor share of
the spectators’ enthusiasm, both enjoyed rather
large schedules.

     
    
  

 

BASEBALLERS WIN TEN

Of the fourteen games played to date the
baseball team won ten and lost four. They open-
ed the season with a trip to Norfolk, Williams-
burg, and Richmond, meeting William and Mary
twice, and Richmond University once. They suc-
ceeded in opening the season with a victory over
William and Mary at Norfolk, but lost the re-
maining two games of the trip. Drexel, Elon,
and Bridgewater, the next three home games
were taken with comparative ease by the wash-
ington and Lee nine, but the next two home
games, against Maryland and Virginia were more
difficult to win. V. P. I. and a second time,
William and Mary, were next defeated, but the
best the Generals could do on the Maryland—
Navy trip was to break even, winning from Navy .“—_—
and losing to Maryland. Virginia evened the s —_. =
score with the locals defeating them in a hard
fought battle, 2 to 1. The second game of the
series with V. P. I. was called on account of rain,
and the game with Duke May 6 closed the home
season. a haa eo es - ss » pie

Following the Duke game, the team entrained oe . ae en _? nt
for the big northern trip which took them to
Philadelphia, New York, West Point, Ithaca,
Hamilton, and back to Philadelphia, where they
met the following teams in order: Temple, New
York University, Army, Colgate, and Drexel.

The General nine won two of its series with
rival schools, and tied the remaining two. They de-
feated William and Mary two out of three and de-

 

 

Left to right, standing—R. A. Smith, Coach, Sauerbrun, Steimb

feated V. P. I. in the only game played, the second , Sa

. F 7 UW —., 7 I =m
having been called on account of rain. The even ront row, left to right—Methvin, Jarrett, Mattox, T. Cr ,
break was obtained against Virginia and Maryland. Virginia. He defeated William and Mary, Drexel,

[ 12 ] ba

 

T eaeeek Ad tev’ MicN.- 2 Mit Gs Acc Sc ts hine

int of Interest at Washington and Lee

VERBLE ‘ ; 4
Maryland, V. P. I., William and Mary, and Navy. Sauerbrun turned in against Elon, when he set them
Jarrett also helped himself out of several difficult pre- down with no hits, and won the game five to one.
dicaments by his faultless fielding and heavy hitting. Lefty Sauerbrun won three out of five games, losing

against Richmond and Maryland.

 

Monk Mattox, veteran catcher, was worked
in most of the games behind the bat, and attracted
the attention of several big league scouts, who
were bidding for his services in pro ball. Fitz-
gerald, who has another year on the varsity, pro-
duced the biggest guns of the General's offensive.
The big first baseman broke up several ball games
with herculean drives, one of which established a
field record. The veteran infield of Fitzgerald
at first, Cross at second, Routin at short, and
Miller at third, worked well together and pre-
sented a good first line defense for the Washing-
ton and Lee nine. The outfield generally con-
sisted of Cremin, Cook, and Wilson. In ad-
dition to those mentioned, the following were
used often, and present promising material for
the coming years: Chittum, Burke, Steinberg,
Gray, Methvin, Painter, Haas, Burrows, and
Muller.

TRACK

The General track team did not fare quite
so well in its meets this year, as in the past, win-
ning only one meet out of four, and coming third
in the State meet. The team was handicapped
by injuries and a lack of available men for the
field events. The injury of Eli Finklestein, vars-
ity hurdler who broke a bone in his foot at the
Catholic University indoor meet, weakened the
running department, while the field men were
never able to get an even break in their events.

“Stuge” Edmonds, running his second year
on fhe varsity, was the high point man of the
squad, garnering seven firsts in the dual meets,
and one first in the State meet. The fleet footed
sprinter won firsts in the 100 and 220 in every
dual meet except against Duke, where these two
events were won by the Duke sprinter in record
time (9.6 for the hundred). Edmunds was
awarded the Carter Glass, Jr., cup which is given
each year to the man who makes the highest
number of points on the track team.

 

 

 

V. Cremin,. Wilson, Chittum, Painter, Miller, Burke, Evans.
Tald, Cross, Routin.

Gladden, distance runner, was second in the
matter of firsts, winning four firsts in dual meets,
The greatest individual feat of the staff was the game and one in the State. Bailey, weight man, and Duncan,

[ 13 ]

 

 

 

 

ean AD het the Bee I oF ME AUG > AA 2-1 Nae
pole vaulter, were next with three firsts, while Brod- at election optional forms of county government rath-
erick, middle distance runner, and Phelps hurdler, each er than be forced to operate under the constitutional
~ won two firsts. form which the commission found to be inadequate

The Generals opened the season with a loss against under present conditions. The bill provides for a
Maryland 58 1-3 to 67 2-3. The meet was run on a county manager form for large counties or those work-
muddy track, and the times were rather poor. Inability ing under urban conditions, and for other counties a
to break even in the field events lost the meet. Ed- county executive form of a more flexible nature. A
munds won the 100 and 220: Broderick the 440 and centralized financial control and uniform accounting
880 ; Gladden, Themile, and Cook tied in the high jump. will be possible under either system, since eres of the

The next was lost to William and Mary by the duties now divided among several officers will be vest-
score of 54 to 72. In this meet the field men came up ed in a board of supervisors elected directly by the peo-
a bit, but the inability of the distance men to win their ple.
firsts, and the inability of the sprinters to garner suf- In an effort to strengthen the present constitution-
ficient seconds and thirds led to the William and Mary al form, bills were passed which will permit the con-
victory. Edmunds won firsts in the 100 and 220; solidation of counties or the cooperation of counties
Broderick in 440; Phelps in the 120 high hurdles and for the performance of functions which might best be
220 low; Duncan in the pole vault (12 feet); and in handled in larger units of this sort. The committee was
the discus. further authorized to make a study during the next

Duke defeated the Generals next by a score of two years of the fee system, which will be practically
76 2-3 to 49 1-3. The only firsts that is absile ten abolished under the optional forms of government.
were: Gladden, mile; Duncan, pole vault; and Cook, Further strength was added the constitutional form
high jump. The Duke sprinters won their events in of government in bills allowing the governor to re-
almost record time. move defaulting officers, making omission of delin-

The Generals registered their only win of the quent taxes a misdemeanor and malfeasence in office
season over Richmond University by the score of 71 prohibiting use of county funds by officers tor
to 55. Edmunds won (as usual) his firsts in the 100 purposes other than those provided by law and provid-
and 220; Gladden came in first in the 2 mile; Stevens ing that the state pay for recordation books.
in the shot; Bailey in the discus and javelin; and Dun- In commenting on the passage of the bills Doctor
can in the pole vault. Tucker said that he was particularly gratified that the

Virginia won the State meet with 74 1-2 points. measures should have passed in the first session after
V. M. I. came second with 47 1-2, and Washington and they were presented.

Lee third with 38 5-6. Edmunds was high point man
for the General team that day. He won first in the AMERICAN BOY SCHOLARSHIPS
220, and second in the 100, totaling eight points for :
the Blue and White. Sawyers was second high point : he February es of the Amer ro B oy Maga-
man, totaling seven points by virtue of a third in the zine, with the cooperation of the University , offered
broad jump, a third in the 100, and a fourth in the pole five scholarships and forty-five other ne for the
vault. Gladden won the state mile, while Duncan tied best Seer) George Washington’s contribution to
for the pole vault, and Rivers tied for the high jump. education.
The winners of the scholarships are as follows:
George Washington scholarship, four years, value
GOVERNOR COMPLIMENTS DR. TUCKER $1,000—Richard Fiske, 19, New York City.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, Dean of the College, re- “Light Horse Harry’ Lee scholarship, two years,
cently received a telegram of congratulation on the suc- value $500—Arthue E. Pope, 16, Birmingham, Ala.
cessful passage of the bills regarding reform in county Marquis de Lafayette scholarship, one year, value
government in Virginia, which were suggested by a $250—Robert Flint, 17, Watertown, South Dakota.
commission appointed to investigate this matter and General Andrew Moore scholarship, one year,
headed by Doctor Tucker. The message was as follows: value $250—Donald Coleman Pryor, 18, Independence,

“Congratulations on the passage of the county Missouri.
government bills very grateful to you for this last ad- General William Campbell scholarship, one year,
dition to the long list of public services you have ren- value $250—Graham Johnson, 18, Zanesville, Ohio.
dered your state. The contest created widespread attention and hun-

John Garland Pollard, Governor.” dreds of requests for information in regard to details

The bills passed will allow the counties to adopt were received by the University.

[ 14 ]

le FP \.
ane OE aly «+.»

Ae ee

I

ee we a a es

Elaborate Finals Planned

  

HE climax of another year at Washington and

Lee will be reached when June 3rd, an elabo-
m\rate Finals Week will begin. With it the end

of examination worries will be over and everybody

ed institution, will be led by Mr. E. P. Martin, Presi-
dent of Finals. Mr. Martin has worked all winter on
a distinctive idea for the decorations for the dance.
The theme of the Ball will be an ‘underwater scene.”

will be ready to enter into
the spirit of one of the most
exciting Finals Week ever
planned at Washington and
Lee.

Dances, boat races, pic-
nics, fraternity frolics, mid-
night suppers, luncheons,
picture shows, house-part-
ies, and receptions comprise
only a few of the frivilous
activities slated for the
week.

The dances which will
furnish the most enjoyable
entertainment, will be in
charge of Mr. E. P. Martin,
President of Finals, 1932.
Mr. Martin is planning to
have the Gymnasium deco-
rated more beautifully than
ever before for a dance set
here. The Gymnasium for
the first three nights will be
decorated with blue and
white, the school colors. The
first dance to be staged is
the Inter-Fraternity Ball
which will be led by Mr.
J. W. Ball. The various
fraternity banners will hang
from the balcony and will
lend color to the dance. On
Saturday morning the Pan-
White Friar will be led by
Mr. W. F. Stone. The Sig-
ma German will top off the
day’s program, being led by

 

 

FINALS PROGRAM

Friday, June 3
9:00 P. M.—Inter Fraternity Dance.
Saturday, June 4
10:30 A. M.—Pan-White Friar Dansant. |
5:30 P. M. Second and Third Crew Races.
9:00 P. M.—Sigma German.
Sunday, June 5
11:00 A. M.—Baccalaureate Sermon—Lee
Chapel. Rev. W. R. Bowie, D.D.
Monday, June 6—Alumni Day

 

 

9:30 A. M.—Meeting Alumni Board of
Trustees—Alumni Building.
10:00 A. M.—Meeting of Board of Trus-

tees—Alumni Building.

10:30 A. M.—Meeting of the Alumni In-
corporated—Carnegie Library.

12:30 A. M. —Alumni Luncheon. Univer-
sity Dining Hall.

6:00 P. M.—First Crew Boat Races—North
River.

8:30 P. M.—President’s reception to Grad-
uates, Trustees, Alumni, Parents.

10:00 P. M.—Senior Alumni Ball.

Tuesday, June 7

10:45 A. M.—Annual Procession of Trus-
tees, Faculty, and Graduates.

11:00 A. M.—Commencement
Lee Chapel.

Valedictory Address.

10:00 P. M.—Final Ball.

6:00 A. M.—College Friendships.

This program does not include the several
fraternity dances which are being planned. The
schedule for these dances will be announced later.

Exercises—

 

 

Decorations of this nature
have never before been at-
tempted at Washington and
Lee, but are made _ possible
this year through the untir-
ing efforts of President
Martin. Literally dancing
under the sea will be the ef-
fect of the dance. Waving
green moss and sea weed
with a green canopy as a
background mingled with
occasional silver fish and
crystal bubbles will pre-
dominate the ceiling, while
panels of various kinds of
fish and sea monsters will
cover the side wall and
form a perfect aquarium.
The lighting effects in the
first test have proved su-
perb.

The music for the en-
tire set will be furnished by
Henry Theis and his exclu-
sive orchestra. This is his
first appearance at Wash-
ington and Lee and we are
indeed fortunate in secur-
ing him.

The only sad occasion
of the whole week will be
when the Old Bell in Wash-
ington tower tolls on the
morning of June 7th, and
ushers in the 183rd Com-
mencement exercises at

Mr. H. L. Williams. Beautiful favors symbolic of the
exclusive organization will be given the girls at this
dance. On Monday night the Senior-Alumni Ball will
be led by Mr. J. L. Wright.
The favors for this dance will be unique white leather
bound -Calyx’s
Final Ball, the last impression of the dearly belov-

[15 ]

Washington and Lee. Sadness will fill the hearts of
many Seniors who will for their last time be an actual
part of the “cherished institution,” but fond memories
will forever linger in the very souls of all who are
departing. Happiness will prevail in the hearts of
many proud parents who will see their sons bring to a
climax the accomplishments and achievements of their
college careers.

1 one me: ee ee, ee

EBERHART ELECTED HEADMASTER

The board of trustees of Norfolk Academy an-
nounced on April 19, that D. C. Eberhart, Jr., of Day-
tona Beach, Fla., has accepted the position of headmas-
ter of Norfolk Academy, Norfolk, Va., for the 1932-

 

33 school year. Eberhart has been athletic coach and
instructor at the Academy and will assume his duties
as headmaster July 1 of this year.

Members of the Academy board of Trustees said
they considered themselves fortunate in securing the
services of Mr. Eberhart, who is especially experienced
in private school work. ‘Though a native of Florida,
Mr. Eberhart attended Virginia schools for the greater
part of his education, receiving his preparatory educa-
tion at Staunton Military Academy and later graduat-
ing with the degree of Bachelor of Arts from Wash-
ington and Lee University. Records of the two schools
reveal Mr. Eberhart as an honor student and as an
untiring worker in extra curriculum activities.

At Washington and Lee University Mr. Eberhart
played for three years as halfback on the varsity foot-
ball team, and he also was a member of the Univer-
sity track squad. He was an honor student at Wash-
ington and Lee, being elected to Phi Beta Kappa, na-
tional scholastic fraternity during the latter part of the
year. His ability as a campus leader while at Wash-
ington and Lee is evidenced by the fact that he was
selected a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa, na-
tional fraternity recognizing campus leadership. Mr.
Eberhart specialized in numerous courses on education,
and in recognition of his ability in the educational field

I

A Oe OA ee ee
was elected a member of Kappa Phi Kappa, national
educational fraternity. He is a member of Kappa Al-
pha social fraternity.

Associated with Mr. Eberhart as a member of the
faculty of the Norfolk school will be Samuel W. Ar-
rington, also an alumnus of Washington and Lee.

 

PEACE HATH HER VICTORIES
By Pror. L.
The closing event of the ceremonies in honor of
Washington on April 12, was the presentation of an
original play that night in the Lyric theatre by the
Troubadours of Washington and Lee. Those in the
large audience which practically filled the building not
only spent a most enjoyable evening, but, it is safe to
say, they now have a greater realization of the tremen-
dous problems which Washington faced during his
presidency. “Peach Hath Her Victories” was written
especially for the occasion by Professor Lawrence E.
Watkin of the faculty, who was called to the stage by
the audience at the close of the play as an evidence of
its approval.

E. WATKINS

The setting of the play was Philadelphia in 1795;
on July 4 in the first two acts and on Aug. 12 in the
last act. The first act took place in the drawing room
of Mrs. Bingham, who was giving a dinner party for
General and Mrs. Washington. Miss Mary Monroe
Penick was Mrs. Bingham, and the guests were repre-
sented by members of the Troubadours and Mrs. Chas.
R. McDowell, Mrs. James §S. Moffatt, and Mrs.
Lawrence E. Watkin. Miss Mary Desha was the
young daughter of the hostess and the part of Mrs.
Washington, who arrived late with her husband, was
played by Miss Sarah White. Miss Penick and Miss
White had the principal parts for women and were
splendid, but the others were also excellent. The beau-
tiful costumes of the period added to the picturesque-
ness of the scene.

 

AERIAL VIEW OF THE CAMPUS

The University has distributed to a large num-
ber of high and preparatory schools throughout the
South copies of the new airplane picture of the Uni-
versity, showing a complete view of the grounds and
buildings. The pictures are particularly clear, every
building connected with the University, including pro-
fessors’ homes, being easily recognizable in the picture.

 

Specifications and blue-prints have been prepared
for the new Kappa Sigma fraternity house to be erect-
ed in Davidson Park opposite the home of Hon.. Harry
St. George Tucker.

[ 16 ]

A ore ee N

— eh &2 A 2S Oe

Annual Business Conference

Speakers for Washington and Lee Business Conference

 

 

HE second annual Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Conference on Business Affairs was
al\held at the University on April 21-22. This
conference is sponsored by the School of Commerce
and was attended by business men from Virginia and
West Virginia as well as business leaders from distant
places in the eastern and southern sections of the coun-
try.

The theme of this session was “The Currency
Situation.”

The principal addresses were made by Mr. Rob-
ert B. Warren of Case, Pomeroy & Co., who spoke on

 

 

SOHN M.MILLER JR, 4% NORMAN LOMBARD * MALCOLM C.RORTY® DRHAROLD G.MOULTON

 

 

“The Gold Standard”; Mr. Norman Lombard, presi-
dent, Norman Lombard & Co., “Money: Its Impor-
tance and Social Consequences.”

Following the two main addresses were discus-
sion pertaining to individual problems by bankers and
business men of the state.

The meeting closed with a lecture by Mr. Carl
Snyder on “Economic Measurements.” This lecture
was illustrated by various charts and was based on the
extensive original investigations made by Mr. Sny-
der with a view to measuring business fluctua-
tions.

 

STUDENT SPEAKERS

The annual Omicron Delta Kappa tour of the
larger high schools and preparatory schools in the
vicinity of the University has just completed its work
with outstanding success. The tour is sponsored by
O. D. K., but the arrangements for dates and alumni
connections in the various schools visited are made
by the Alumni Secretary.

Teams composed of two or three speakers visited
the larger schools and spoke on the advantages of con-
tinuing one’s education, laying particular emphasis on
the advisability of doing this at Washington and Lee.

An effort is made to send speakers to schools from

which they entered the University, thus having a spec-
ial point of contact.

In making these engagements the alumni cooper-
ated most enthusiastically.

 

1932-33 CATALOGUE

The new catalogue for the session of 1932-33 is-
sued annually in February, is being distributed to ap-
plicants. The catalogue contains the usual information
relative to faculty and staff, historical data, curricula,
and students, and shows a total enrollment of 876 stu-
dents coming from thirty-five states and five foreign
countries.

[ 17 ]

oom os BR ae ee

I

Se; See, © ee. ae’ See Gee

 

ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED

Dr. and Mrs. Lucius Junius Desha announced the
engagement of their daughter, Julia Forrester, to Mr.
Reed Graves, of Lynchburg, Sunday, March 27. The
marriage will take place in June at the Robert E. Lee
Memorial Church.

Miss Desha
is a native of
Lexington and is
now attending
Randolph- Macon
Women’s Col-
lege in  Lynch-
burg. She is a
member of the
Alpha Omega Pi
sorority and Om-
ega, campus hon-
orary. Miss Desha
is a popular mem-
ber of the college
set here.

Mr. Graves
is an alumnus of
Washington and
Lee, being a mem-
ber of the class of
1924. While at Washington and Lee he was a mem-
ber of the Cotillion Club, business manager of the
Troubadours, and connected with the University or-
chestra. He is a member of the Delta Tau Delta fra-
ternity. Mr. Graves, a native of Lynchburg, is now
a member of the firm of A. N. Campbell and Company,
steel constructors of that city.

 

 

SATURDAY EVENING POST COMMENTS

“What’ll It Cost Me to Drive to the Coast?” is the
title of an interesting article in the Saturday Evening
Post of April 2, by Nina Wilcox Putnam. In outlin-
ing an attractive trip to California by way of Virginia,
Miss Putnam makes a delightful reference to Lexing-
ton and Washington and [ee University and the Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

The paragraphs referring to Virginia are as fol-
lows:

“Leaving New York at 4 p. m. of a hot July after-
noon, we reached Hagerstown well before midnight. I
strongly recommend that in summer you get out of
New York by night and hand yourself the pleasure of
waking up in dear old mammy land. You will make
the jump in less than half the usual time. But from
Hagerstown on, do your own driving by daylight. Here
you are in the heart of the Civil War battlefields, and

[ 18 |

it’s a shame to miss em’. Winchester, which is at the
head of the glorious Shenandoah Valley, with its fabu-
lous display of apple blossoms in the spring, and its
far famed caves, anyone of which is worth seeing. You
can’t miss them, for practically everybody in the Val-
ley is in the cave business unless they happen to be in
the cavern business. Just a new kind of cave man they
have developed down there.

“Having got the Shenandoah off your chest and
into your heart, keep on U. S. 11 as far as Lexington,
Va. Stop about an hour in this town and have a look
at two of our most romantic educational centers, the
V. M.I., which is the West Point of the South, and the
Washington and Lee University, whose lovely colonial
buildings are perhaps as fine an example of early Amer-
ican architecture as exists in the length and breadth
of America. Once seen you will never forget this
group of buildings. It’s the kind of a thrill that
brings a lump of pleasure to your throat and tears of
sentimental patriotism to your eye, no matter how fishy
it may ordinarily be. Okay! When you've wiped
away the tear, look for U. S. 60 out of town and go
into the sweet scented pine clad mountains, through
White Sulphur Springs where the fashionable fat lad-
ies go to get in shape for the fall fashions.

“If you are sick of cities and want a vacation from
them; if you are tired of passing trucks and of being
held up by traffic stop lights, let me submit the new
Midland Trail. Have you ever wanted 'to see the Sun-
ny South? The real unspoiled South of the mammy
songs? Well, here’s your chance if you hurry .

 

FLAGS

Lexington is now decorated with flags on special
occasions. The flags are four by six feet and are dis-
played on staffs twelve feet high. They have appeared
twice—the first time on February 22 and again on
April 12, the date of the Washington and Lee celebra-
tion of the Bi-Centennial.

 

 

GEORGE GORDON BATTLE IS HOST

George Gordon Battle, president of the New York
Southern Society, and Mrs. Battle gave a luncheon
April 16 at the Central Park Casino for Dr. and Mrs.
Gaines. Among the guests were Dr. and Mrs. Field-
ing Lewis Taylor, Dr. and Mrs. George Bolling Lee,
Mr. and Mrs. Foster Gaines, Mrs. Charles J. McDer-
mott, Mr. and Mrs. Garland Peed and John P. East.

After the luncheon, Dr. Gaines addressed a meet-
ing of the Southern Society at the Waldorf-Astoria.

 

Born to Mr. and Mrs. James A. Lee, April 2,
1932, a son, at 17 Summit St., East Orange, N. J.

ine ee ee

Alumni Meetings

NORFOLK

With an 11-5 baseball victory for the Generals
over William and Mary as the high point in the festiv-
ities, the Norfolk alumni association gathered at the
Monticello hotel of that city after the game to tender a
welcome banquet to the visiting Blue and White ath-
letes.

Baseball being the theme for this get-to-gether,
enthusiasm over the day’s victory ran high and by the
time toastmaster Major S. Heth Tyler, 96, called for
order from the loyal alumni present, everyone was in
a most receptive mood.

After extending a most cordial welcome and con-
gratulation to the team on behalf of the Norfolk alum-
ni, Mr. Tyler called on Captain Dick Smith, baseball
coach and director of intercollegiate sports to say a
few words.

Occupying the position of the man behind the
sports wheel at Lexington, and also having the ability
to understand where lay the interest of such a gather-
ing, Captain Smith outlined just what a strong hold
both intercollegiate and intramural sports have gotten
at Washington and Lee.

For the interest displayed by the alumni whenever
the baseball or football teams have played in Norfolk,
Captain Dick Smith paid tribute, and -especially lauded

the efforts of Walter “Beef? Hoffman, ’31, and Bill

Venable, °31 in putting across the entertainment part
of the programs.

A bit of “Who remembers when” was mixed in the
baseball atmosphere when Judge ‘Jimmie’? Goode, 94,
captain and second baseman on the undefeated team of
that year, which included among its victims Yale,
Princeton, and Virginia, reminisced on the develop-
ment of the game since his time.

Carrying on the baseball note, Harry “Cy” Young,
alumni secretary, told the gathering that the 1932 team
is the best rounded outfit that he has seen at Washing-
ton and Lee in the past twenty years.

Among those present were:

Walter E. Hoffman, ’31; William E. Cathey, ’32;
Frederick G. Swink, ’32; David C. Eberhart, Jr., ’30;
Allen S. Carr, ’32; Henry W. MacKenzie, Jr., ’32; J.
Hoge Tyler, ’°33; Wm. W. Venable, °31; Leonard H.
Davis, °30; J. W. Eggleston, 10; R. A. Smith, °13; H.
M. Woodward, *13; R. Lee Page, 06; R. B. Spindle,
Jr., 710; W. P. Ballard, ’31; Earl T. Jones, ’30; Leigh
Williams, ’32; Richard D. Hamilton, ’30; Robert D.
Powers, Jr., 29; D. B. Edwards, ’24; F. Gordon Hud-

I

A Ad ae.

Norfolk, Atlanta, Staunton,
Jacksonville.

gins, ‘25; James U. Goode, '94;.S. Heth Tyler, 96;
Cy Young, °17.

ATLANTA

On Tuesday, February 23, Washington and Lee
Alumni, civic clubs and local educational institutions of
Atlanta, Ga., held a joint luncheon meeting in honor
of George Washington’s bi-centennial.

Over 400 of the leading business men of Atlanta
were present. The meeting was opened by Mr. Walter
McElreath, ‘92. The principal speaker of the occas-
ion was Dean Daimunda de Ovies.

 

fy
VV

STAUNTON

Washington and Lee alumni of Staunton, Virginia,
held a banquet-meeting at the Stonewall Jackson hotel
on Friday night February 26. Dr. Gaines was the
guest of honor. About twenty-five alumni were pre-
sent.

Discussing the plan of education at Washington
and Lee Dr. Gaines said that 100 vears ago this year
Louis Marshall, brother of John Marshall, was presi-
dent of Washington and Lee, and that he inaugurated
an entirely new system of education.

He abolished classes, allowing the students to
study as they willed and to apply to professors for a
lecture whenever they desired one. Also during his
four-year term as president, examinations were done
away with. The purpose of this plan, according to the
speaker, was to develop in the students the initiative to
seek an education rather than to have one forced upon
them. He stated that this sytem is gradually becoming
more prevalent today.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by Judge Joseph A.
Glasgow, who acted as toastmaster. In making the in-
troduction, Judge Glasgow mentioned some of his uni-
versity experiences.

°

JACKSONVILLE

Jacksonville alumni of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity joined in a tribute to George Washington, foun-
der of their great alma mater on April 11.

Judge George Couper Gibbs, a distinguished alum-
nus led a group*of speakers in paying honor to ‘the
memory of the Father of His Country. Taking as his
subject, ‘Washington the Educator,’ Judge Gibbs

[19 ]

eee 3 ee ee

spoke informally at a luncheon given in the George
Washington hotel.
The speaker lauded Washington’s interest in edu-

cation and its advancement, and referred frequently
to public expressions of Washington in connection with
education. His address included a recital of how
Washington and Lee University came into being.

Judge Gibbs was presented by Fred M. Valz, city
commissioner, who presided over the luncheon pro-
gram, which was arranged by Reuben Ragland. Lon-
nie D. Howell, county solicitor, was another speaker.
His remarks included reminiscences of the school dur-
ing his undergraduate days.

Preceding the luncheon the hotel orchestra, under
the direction of Frank Morris, presented a musical
program including the “Washington and Lee Swing,”
official school song.

Among the Washington and Lee alumni in Jackson-
ville are: Robert C. Lester, C. H. Lichliter, Scott M.
Loftin, Harvey M. Mabry, S. R. Marks, H. Fletcher
Martin, John G. McGriffin, E. T. MclIllvain, Claude J.
Moody, M. J. Myerson, D. W. Parfitt, John Pilking-
ton, Reuben Ragland, L. A. Raulerson, George L.
Read, T. S. Roberts, Jr., B. B. Shields, Carl Smith, W.
FE. Smith, Alfred S. Stephens, J. I. Triplett, Jr., Her-
man Ulmer, Fred M. Valz, J. B. Waters, Damon G.
Yerkes, Paul Mclllvaine.

William Rosenberg, Montague Rosenberg, Thom-
as Walker, Robert Dunn, Harry Wilson, Harry Foz-
zard, W. C. Anderson, Judge W. H. Baker, R. A.
Baker, D. Meade Bernard, W. B. Bond, Sam Buch-
oltz, James H. Bunch, H. Stafford Caldwell, P. D.
Causey, J. J. G. Cooper, C. L. Crawford, Inman P.
Crutchfield, R. P. Daniel, R. L. Fink, Judge George
Couper Gibbs, J. M. Glickstein, Elmer Hunter, L. D.
Howell, R. L. Hutchinson, W. H. Jeter, Louis S. Joel,
Rhydon C. Latham and others.

The following telegram was received at the Uni-
versity from the Jacksonville alumni:

Dr. Francis P. Gaines,
President Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Large gathering of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity alumni in Jacksonville held luncheon today to do
honor to George Washington the educator and to ex-
press our gratitude for his generous contribution to our
university stop Resolution adopted to forward to you
heartiest greetings and best wishes for the success of
our commemoration exercises to be held in Lexington
tomorrow.

W. and L. U. Alumni Association of Jacksonville, Fla.

 

James U. Goode, B.L., ’94, elected by the Legis-
lature Judge of the Corporation Court of Norfolk, Va.

I

1 a eo ee ee

FRANCIS T. COLE, ’18

Francis T. Cole was a member of the class of 1918
and was one of its greatest modern language students,
having taken at school all of Dr. Easter’s French and
Spanish, and most of Dr. Thomas Farrar’s German.
He was also one who would like to dig into history
records. |

It was apparently his pleasure of talking and
reading in foreign languages, together with his digging
proclivities in historical records, that urged him to seek

 

activities in New York, after a year’s teaching in Rich-
mond.

He became Chief of Research in the Department
of Ingenieria Internacional of McGraw Hill Company,
New York, where he made no less than one hundred
and twenty studies on markets in Latin America for
industrial machinery and its products.

After five years with McGraw-Hill Company, he
became associated in a major role with the work of the
American Manufacturers’ Export Association, which
is now located at 401 Broadway, New York. When
that organization was reorganized a few years ago he
was made General Manager, and as such his activities
are concerned with supplying information to the Ameri-
can manufacturer, to encourage and facilitate his ex-
port business. This activity takes his interest in com-
mercial adventure to every country, and causes him to
be interested in not only the commercial activity of

[ 20 |

7 en AC ie, a ae IN
American enterprises and its expansion, but in the
legislative and financial arrangements that can be made
to facilitate and encourage the growth of American
business abroad.

It is to be noted that the president of the Associa-
tion, Edward N. Hurley; the treasurer, Frank A. Eld-
ridge of the Chase National Bank; and Directors, are
a group of pioneers and leaders in American business,
including James A. Farrell, of the United States Steel
Corporation; Samuel Vaclain of the Baldwin Locomo-
tive Works; C. E. Calder of American and Foreign
Power Company, and many others of the leaders of
America’s big home industries who are interested in
export and international trade.

While Francis had been devoting his thoughts and
ideas to problems of foreign exchange, of tariffs and
of overcoming other obstacles of export trade, he has
also cultivated local contacts and personal affairs rath-
er intensively. We learn that he is the president of
the East Rockaway Fire Department, a volunteer fire
organization in the local village, and that he is inter-
ested in the Democratic party and is a member of the
East Rockaway (Long Island) Executive Committee,
and as such is an important local figure, when one
wants to gt something done by the village authorities.

He married Johanna Barth of New York in April,
1929 and has three children—one boy and two girls,
ranging from eleven to six years of age.

We are all in the hopes that Francis and his or-
ganization will be able to develop the export trade of
American manufacturers, so that the depression will
soon be a matter of historical interest only.

 

CUSTIS-LEE SOCIETY FEATURED

The Custis-Lee engineering society will be one of
the features of the April issue of “Civil Engineering,”
an engineering magazine of world wide circulation.
There will be a short article concerning this organiza-
tion together with a picture of the group.

 

BY-LAWS

The Executive Committee of the Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., met in Lexington on April 16, with
the following members present: Walter McDonald, pre-
sident; Ran Tucker, Stuart Moore, and Cy Young.

The object of this meeting was to consider a re-
vision of the By-Laws of the organization and other
alumni matters of importance. The proposed revision
of the By-Lawsewill be presented to the general Alumni
meeting in June for action thereon.

 

Dr. Samuel S. Guerrant, ’86, of R. I. D., Calla-
way, Virginia, has just returned from a cruise in the
Mediterranian—having visited Egypt, Palestine, etc.

I

s S UA 2 eR oe

PHI BETA KAPPA

Following the Phi Beta Kappa initiation on March

19, 1932, a formal banquet was held at the Dutch Inn

in honor of the initiates.
Those who were initiated were as follows:

From the faculty, Dr. L. C. Helderman, associate
professor of History; from the alumni: Dr. E. Z.
Derr of Frederick, Maryland; Dr. J. H. Gorrell of
Wake Forest, N. C.; Dr. William Allan ‘of Char-
lotte, N. C.; J. G. Herndon of Haverford, Penna. ; and
J. C. Whetzel of Pittsburgh, Penna.

Those from the student body who were elected
are :

Alabama—F. F. Ellis, Birmingham.

Florida—J. W. Ball, Jacksonville.

Georgia—H. R. Mahler, Thomasville, and R. T.
Silva, Thomasville.

Maryland—C. C. Bowers, Brunswick.

North Carolina—W. C. Kimbrell, Raleigh.

New York—J. J. Broderick, Yonkers, and J. G.
Marks, New York City.

Virginia—M. W. Adelson, Covington; W. D.
Hoyt, Jr., Lexington, and $. H. Newman, Danville.

West Virginia—F. B. Lewis, Maxelton.

‘/_— ee

1911 LAW CLASS ANNUAL

John F. Brown of Elkins, W. Va., is the editor of
a most attractive pamphlet, —“1911 Law Class An-
nual,” recently received in the Alumni Office. The
booklet is bound in white and the cover bears a picture
of George Washington in recognition of the bi-centen-
nial. It contains an introductory letter of greeting
from Prof. Clayton Williams, of the Law School and
many letters from members of the class. It also car-
ries a directory of the present addresses of the mem-
bers. ‘The frontispiece is a picture of Prof. Joseph R.
Long, who was one of the professors under whom
this class sat, and who died recently at his home in
Bolder, Colorado.

 

The Law Class of 1911 is to be congratalated on
this excellent piece of work. ‘The annual publication
of this booklet has done much to hold the members of
the class together and it would be a splendid thing if
other classes would follow their example.

Ly
VW

MARRIAGE

Announcement has been received of the marriage
of Miss Georgia Belle Bryson to George Stanley Mor-
rison, B.S. 15, at New Orleans, La. They will make
their home at 4206 Bute St., Houston, Texas.

 

Eugene Seal, ’27, has been elected County Attor-
ney at Meridian, Miss.

[ 21 ]

aon ei A Re

I

MA G “A 2.21 ee

 

NEWS OF ALUMNI

DeWitt B. Cook, ’30, is teaching at Villanova Col-
lege, Wayne, Penna.
George West Diehl, D. D., °13, has accepted
First

Rev,
a call to the large and beautiful Presbyterian
Church of Corpus Christi, Texas.

Majer S. Heth Tyler, ’96, elected a member of
the Board of Directors, Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce.

 

Judge S. B. Schein, 11, has been elected to mem-
bership in Alpha Kappa Delta, national honor frater-
nity of students, scholars, and active workers in soci-
ology and anthropology at the University of Wisconsin,

Madison, Wis. Judge Schein’s election was made, ac-
cording to the announcement by Lillian Bey, secretary,
in recognition for notable social work as judge of the
superior court.

“An exceedingly high percentage of the work of
the court under Judge Schein has been concerned with
problems of juvenile delinquency and family rehabili-
tation and it was Judge Schein’s progressive and social-
ly-forward-looking handling of these cases which rec-
ommened his election to the fraternity,” the secretary
said.

Gibson Witherspoon, ’29, is local attorney for the
U. S. F. and G. Co., in the vicinity of Meridian, Miss.

 

Captain Robert V. Ignico, U. 5. Air Corps, Wash-
nigton and Lee graduate of the class of ’17, following

 

James Urquhart Goode was born in
Norfolk, Va., June 2, 1873. He attended

James Urquhart Goode, ’94

 

public school in Washington, D. C., his
father, Honorable John Goode, being at that
time a distinguished member of Congress
representing the Second Congressional Dis-
trict.
High School for one year, at which insti-

Judge Goode attended the Episcopal

tution he played second base on the baseball
team. He spent one year after leaving the
Epsicopal High School in the U. 5. Geolo-
gical Survey in Topographical and Trian-
gulation work in Arkansas, Missouri, ‘Texas
Indiana Territory (as it then was), and
Louisiana.

He entered Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1891; obtained his B.L. degree
in 1894; was a member of Kappa Alpha and
T. N. E. fraternities; played second base
on the varsity team all the time he was at
Washington and Lee and was captain of
the team in 1894,

Mr. Goode went to Norfolk after his
graduation in 1894 and in a short while
formed a partnership with Captain Taze-

 

    

|

 

 

—

 

well Taylor for the practice of law. This
partnership existed for three or four years

Washington and Lee.

 

and thereafter he continued to practice law by himself until 1910, at which time he was elected Civil Jus-
tice on the creation of that court in Norfolk, and presided over it with distinguished ability and universal
satisfaction until 1932 when he was elected Judge of the Corporation Court No. 2 of that city.

He married Miss Helen Moore and has one daughter four years of age.
interest in all sports, have made him popular with all classes, and his fine sense of judicial discernment
have been justly recognized by his fellow citizens. He has always been deeply interested in the welfare of

His pleasing manner and

 

 

[| 22 |

eee ae Boo ee ee Rie” IN

a period of training at the industrial college in Wash-
ington, has been transferred to Duncan Field, San An-
tonio, Texas, after July 1.

 

Samuel D. Kirby, Jr., ’21, having concluded his
term as Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, has
resumed the general practice of law, with offices at
909 Inter-Southern Building, Louisville, Ky.

 

Paul D. Converse, M.A., °13, has made a study of
small-store mortality in eleven lines of business in II-
linois towns, covering a period of five years ending
July 1930. This investigation covers only those stores
run by independent dealers, and shows a surprising
turnover.

As might be expected there is a close connection
between the changes in population and fluctuation in
the number of stores. In all the eleven lines but one
the number of dealers goes up an down with an increase
or decrease in population. The exception is the restau-
rant business, in which the number of dealers increases
even when the population drops. Evidently people
are eating at home less all the time.

The eleven lines may be divided up in a general
way as those with short and long business lives. The
short-lived are the restaurants, garages, groceries and
meat stores. New dealers in any line have two chances
out of three of lasting more than a year, an even chance
of lasting to the end of the second year, and two
chances out of five of lasting through the third year,
There may be some significance in the fact that drug
stores have the longest lives. Druggists are the only
retailers required to pass an examination before enter-
ing business.

 

ALUMNUS MARRIED IN CHAPEL

Lee Chapel was the scene of a wedding recently
when Miss Mary Early Hart became the bride of Lewis
H. Shumate, Jr., 30, member of the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity. Both the bride and groom are residents
of Johnson City, Tennesseé, and Mr. Shumate is con-
nected with the Unaka City National Bank. The bride
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James P. Hart.

Dr. J. J. Murray of the Lexington Presbyterian
church performed the ceremony. Allen H. Wofford
was best man and Graham Morison gave the bride
away. Miss Martha Moore was the maid of honor and
J. Franklin Jones was usher for the occasion. Mem-
bers of Shumate’s family and close friends on the cam-
pus were guests at the ceremony and at the formal din-
ner which followed at the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

 

Mr. W. M. McElwee, ’79, has returned to Lexing-
ton after spending several months in Dunnedin, Florida.

I

A e& A 2 oe ie

 

DEATHS

 

MARTIN P. BURKS, JR., LL.B. ‘05

Martin P. Burks, Jr., prominent member of the
Roanoke, Va., bar for the past two decades, died sud-
denly Thursday night, May 5, at his home in Roanoke.

Martin Burks was born in Bedford, April 3, 1882,
the son of the late Judge Martin P. Burks, who later
became the head of the Law School of Washington and
Lee. In 1905 he was graduated from the law school
headed by his distinguished father and entered the law
offices of Judge Phlegar, then located at Christians-
burg, but later at Bristol.

For a time he was attorney for the Interstate Coal

_ company, with headquarters at Barbourville, Ky., and

was later attorney for the C. and O. railway, with
headquarters at Johnson City, Tenn. He moved to
Roanoke in 1911 and began the practice of law in that
city.

Surviving Mr. Burks are his mother, his wife,
who before her marriage was Miss Laura Mangum
Oglesby, and four children, Martin P. Burks, III, a
senior in the Washington and Lee law school, Albert
O. Burks, in his third year at Washington and Lee,
Laura Bangum Burks and Edward C. Burks.

 

WALTER L. McCORKLE, ’78

~ Walter L. McCorkle died Tuesday, March 31st in
a hospital in New York City. He was buried Sunday
afternoon in the Lexington cemetery in his native
county. Members of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity
were pallbearers.

Mr. McCorkle was born at the McCorkie home-
stead near Lexington, March 14, 1854, and was seven-
ty-eight years of age. He attended preparatory schools
in Lexington and entered Washington and Lee, gradu-
ating in law in 1878. He was for a brief period a
member of the student body during the presidency of
General Robert E. Lee.

He first practiced his profession at Marysville,
Ky., and after some years there transferred to New
York where he entered the law firm of Peckham and
Shepard. He later opened his own offices at 141
Broadway where he associated with him his brother
Henry McCorkle, who died a few years ago.

Mr. McCorkle was a founder and former president
of the Southern Society of New York, and a member
of many social and civic organizations.

Mr. McCorkle is survived by his widow, the form-
er Miss Margaret Cheseborough of New York, a son,
Robert C. McCorkle of Long Island, and one brother,
Dr. Emmett W. McCorkle of Ashland, Ky.

[ 23 ]

fe : Be - Bee ees Te

I

ee ee ee 2

 

DR. E. F. BELL
Dr. E. F.

ness man, was instantly killed Wednesday afternoon

Bell, prominent Spartansburg, S. C., busi-

March 16, by the explosion of 24 sticks of dynamite
which he was carrying and on which he is believed to
Dr.
dynamite to two workmen who were engaged in wid-

have stumbled and fallen. sell was carrying the

ening a road at his orchard, Bellfield, on the Saluda
slope of Hogback Mountain.
He

was a graduate of Washington and Lee University, and

Dr. Bell was born in York county, in 1878.

had made his home in Spartanburg for'the past 32
years. He was recognized as one of the city’s most
successful business men and an outstanding leader in
civic affairs.

 

Joseph R. Long

Dr. Joseph R. Long died on Tuesday,
March 15 Soulder, Colo.,
following a week’s illness with pneumonia.

at his home in

He was sixty-two years old.

Dr. Long was for many years a popu-
lar member of the Washington and Lee law
school faculty. He was a man of talents
and had a large number of warm friends
here. He was active in the affairs of the
Manly Memorial Baptist church and a
member of its board of deacons while in
Lexington.

Dr. Long was a native of Charlottes-
ville, born Dec. 15, 1870, the son of John
Cralle Long and Josephine Hardin Ragland
Long. He took his undergraduate work at
the University of Richmond, where he was
graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1890.
He later studied at the University of Penn-
sylvania and the University of Virginia, re-
ceiving his LL.B. degree from the latter in-
stitution in 1895.

For a time Dr. Long was on the edi-
torial staff of the Edward Thompson com-
pany, publishers of the American and Eng-
lish Encyclopedia of Law, at Northport, N.
Y., before taking up the practice of law in
Denver. He became a professor of law at
Washington and Lee in 1902 and was made
dean of the law school in 1917, serving in
that capacity until 1923 when he took up
the work at the University of Colorado, on
which he was engaged until death.

Dr. Long was a member of Kappa Alpha, Phi Delta Phi, Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa
fraternities.

 

He was the author of several books and treatises: “Laws of Irrigation,’ 1901; “Laws of
Domestic Relations,” 1905; “Jurisdiction and Procedure of Federal Courts,’ 1910; “Notes on Law of
Wills and Administration,” 1910; “Notes on Roman Law,” 1912; “Cases on Domestic Relations,” 1915;
“Government and the People,” 1922; “Cases on Constitutional Law,” 1926; and was a frequent contribu-
tor to legal periodicals and law encyclopedias.

Dr. Long on Aug. 12, 1902, married Miss Talitha Chenault Brinker, of Denver, Colo., who survives
him with three sons: Joseph R. Long, Jr., attorney at St. Louis, Mo.; John Chenault Long, an intern at
the Colorado General hosptial of Denver; and Lucian Massie Long, a student at the University of Colo-
rado. He is also survived by two brothers, A. R. Long, of Lynchburg, and William, of Charlottesville.

 

 

| 24 |

 

©... Soc a ee ee ON

MAJOR JOSHUA FRY BULLITT

Major Joshua Fry Bullitt, ’78, attorney and as-
sociated with the pioneer industrial activities of Wise
County, Virginia, died at his home in Philadelphia,
April 20, 1932. Funeral services were held in Phila-
delphia and his body brought to his former home in
Big Stone Gap for interment.

Born in Louisville, Ky., the son of Judge Joshua
Fry Bullitt, of the Kentucky Court of Appeals, Mr.
Bullitt attended Washington and Lee, and went to
Big Stone Gap, where he became associated with the
Stonega and affiliated companies as counsel, a rela-
tionship he maintained until his death, though he was
retired to an emeritus basis last December 1.

Mr. Bullitt’s life in Big Stone Gap was intimately
connected with the “boom days” of that period. With
Judge Henry Clay McDowell, recently retired from
the United States court for the Western district of
Virginia, he organized the Big Stone Gap police guard,
which furnished the only protection to the residents of
that section. Major Bullitt served as Captain and
Judge McDowell as first lieutenant. The activities of
that volunteer police force have been retold vividly
in some of the stories of the late John Fox, Jr., who
was a member of the guard.

Mr. Bullitt was transferred some years ago to
Philadelphia as general counsel for the Stonega in-
terests.

 

GEN. JO LANE STERN

Major-General Jo Lane Stern, widely known
member of the Richmond bar, a former adjutant-gen-
eral of Virginia, and long a prominent figure in the
social life of his native state, died at his home in Rich-
mond May 3, 1932. He was in his 84th year.

General Stern was born in Caroline County, Dec.
23, 1848.

Prevented by his youth from entering the service
of Virginia at the outbreak of the war between the
states, he nevertheless enlisted in the army of North-
ern Virginia in 1862, when he was 14 years of age,
and continued to serve for three years.

A few years after the conclusion of the war Gen-
eral Stern, wishing to complete his education and to
prepare himself for the legal profession, entered Wash-
ington College. It was his privilege to have been a
student here in the years 1869 and 1870 under the pres-
idency of General Robert E. Lee, at whose home he
was frequently a guest. He graduated in 1870 with
the degree of LL.B., and practiced his profession in
Richmond, Va. ,

As a result of his youthful experience in _ the
Confederate Army, General Stern continued to take

I

MA G A 24:2 Baas

an active interest in things military, and in 1871 he en-
listed in the Virginia national guard with which he
was to be identified for more than half a century.

The death of General Stern marks the passing ‘of
a man who was widely known in Virginia as a lawyer
and as a soldier, and one who was gifted with traits
of manner that had endeared him to a large circle of
friends of every age. He was endowed with a charm-
ing wit and humor and when in reminiscent mood talk-
ed delightfully of men and events long associated with
a distinguished period in the history of the state.

General Stern was unmarried. He is survived
by his brother, Cary Ellis Stern, of the Richmond bar,
who has been for many years associated with him in
law practice in Richmond.

General Stern’s interest in his Alma Mater never
flagged. He was always present at every gathering
of alumni in Richmond, and his reminiscences of his
student days under General Lee were a most delight-
ful part of these meetings.

 

EDMUND FLEMING BURK, JR., 713

Edmund Fleming Burk, Jr., 41 years of age, anda
graduate of Washington and Lee, class of 1913, died
at his home in Texarkana, Arkansas, on April 3. He
had been ill for some months, having only been out of
the Army and Navy hospital at Hot Springs, Ark., a
short time before his death.

Mr. Burk was a native of Texarkana. After
graduation from the Texarkana high school, he entered
Washington and Lee in the fall of 1909. He developed
into one of the best all-round athletes at the institution,
winning his letter in football, basketball, and track his
freshman year. ‘The three succeeding years he was also
successfull in gaining monograms in these three sports.
He was captain of the track team in 1912-13. He was
a member of the Harry Lee crew four years. Member
Kappa Sigma, White Friars, Sigma, “13” Club, and
Cotillion Club.

While visiting in Lynchburg, Va., in June 1916,
Mr. Burk joined Company L, First Virginia Infantry,
better known as “The Musketeers,” composed of many
alumni of Washington and Lee, Virginia, V. M. L.,
V. P. I. and other colleges, and went to the Mexican
border with this outfit. He served with the Virginia
troops until mustered out just before the World War,
and on declaration of war against Germany entered a
training camp and was commissioned a first lieutenant
of infantry.

He was assigned to the 91st division and saw hard
service in France. During the Meuse-Argonne drive
he was severely wounded and left for dead on the bat-
tlefield. After a year in hospitals in France and the

[ 25 ]

tT HE A be MN

I

a OA. &@& am OB a ee

 

United States, he recovered from his wounds sufficient-
ly to enter the drug business with his father in Tex-
arkana, being secretary of the Smith Drug Co. How-
ever, he later entered the insurance business, in which
he continued until his death.

Mr. Burk is survived by his mother, Mrs. E. F.
Burk, Sr., one brother, Albert Burk of Denver, Col.,
and one sister Mrs. James McMillan of Baton Rouge,
La. His father died early in March of this year.

 

GLENN BROWN, ’74

Mr. Glenn Brown, nationally known architect and
author died in Buxton Hospital, Newport News, Va.,
April 22nd, after an illness of ten months. His re-
mains were taken to Washington for burial in Rock
Creek Cemetery.

 

GEORGE A. SKINNER

George A. Skinner, superintendent of the printing
department of the Washington and Lee school of jour-
nalism, dropped dead at 3:15 o’clock Tuesday after-
noon, April 12, at the Washington and Lee-Maryland
baseball game on Wilson field. Mr. Skinner had suf-
fered from a bad heart for some time and Tuesday
morning complained of feeling badly. He collapsed
just after getting out of his car at the athletic field and
was pronounced dead soon thereafter by Dr. Reid
White.

Mr. Skinner was very popular with all those who
came in contact with him in the Journalism Laboratory.
He took a special interest in the Alumni Magazine and
had given much thought and effort to making the pub-
lication attractive.

Mr. Skinner came to Lexington two years ago
from North Carolina. He was fifty-seven years old
and was a native of Boyleston, N. Y. He is survived
by his widow, also from New York, and a daughter,
Mrs. R. D. Whitley of Charlotte, N. C.

 

Noel Evans Barnes, ’27, died in the Municipal
Hospital in Tampa, Florida, March 20, 1932, follow-
ing an operation.

 

Rev. Charles E. Sullivan, D. D., ’80, died at his
home in Columbia, S. C., during the second week in
March. He was born in Bethany, Giles County, Tenn.,
in 1860, and was a graduate of Emory and Henry Col-
lege, Washington and Lee University, and Union Theo-
logical Seminary in Virginia, graduating from the lat-
ter institution in 1890.

Dr. Sullivan possessed a genial personality and had
a host of friends wherever he labored. He was a

preacher of unusual ability, earnestness and conse-
cration.

 

Marcus Stith Moreman, ’68, died April 6, at his
home in Switzerland, Florida. He was 83 years of
age. Mr. Moreland was a native of Kentucky but
made his home in St. John’s County, Florida, for 62
years.

 

Robert F. Blair, 90, veteran attorney, died sud-
denly at his home in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Mr. Blair
was a native of Tennessee and was a graduate of the
state university there and Washington and Lee law
school.

 

William McElwee Miller, A.B., M.A., 1913, has
just published Baha’ism, Its Origin—History—T each-
ings. Mr. Miller has been engaged in pioneer mission-
ary work in Persia for some years.

 

Jim Cox Wilbourn, ’29, has moved from Meridian,
Miss., to St. Louis where he has been employed in the
legal department of the M. & O. Ry. Co.

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

[ 26 ]

e P er 5
; . J ; hh, 4s oo * ‘ cal 7. y Op oe rt a
feat Bi id hv ie Ff 9,4 goo . ‘ 5 le : 0 er hes: ‘ he D as . tik ; ye Mi ; a4 } i q at tee (eal C ets Mane <
Leh WT Ay LRM ELC tee ag) We cbs + ee ies i ts “Af Pert ay Set ha Aa? op Ms ede it ie BNE tye
Mss mE Ra Os : a . Yi au Mt ; 4 fi i J iSoff ; Ms ‘ Sey i ‘ Pe ‘ ah Beretta Aer 1 4 ak ‘a +
er - ‘ TAY way Paty \ , ot hz, . > an NT a if Ost ee Cc se oa eae $i
cea , eh nace
VARIN LNC A HORN GLO.
o7 AF rie pias i ¥ OP: A Gay os
Gaseinas ith Rr a
BENS Cia AY %
inate Sy Oi toe ew } | UDCA AN
4 ie? oe re \ 2 exe ‘ ; ¥ pee’ CU Le % coy r

IM a) 0 hs 6
ppg if fee Neva
VCD CRM Or ae Mel

.

.
S.
“4k

>,
“wr

MES ates

peas
2
-

WAS? f ee Ler eel fa ea PD Xe oe wae
4 Se ‘ 5 : i i” y sts 4 a y Nps P , EaH Aer ee (,
. *% ” a Sr ‘ ye, aah it pete Af S ray ae 8 Bs et os f %

of a0
OTT RA ARC ME DREN G AW ARR i
‘ c . “

di ne PP ae “ : / jj ak Legh

i Fre Lear a, OZ , AAS, ciei hs

‘ We tree .e $5 Dy AGA)

Behe ory Nw paies Ost tr
PTAA LOMB Cr6 0; 9
Sree CALs? LOARD ag: SNe

Sy
oh
Suse

raat

ESA at
Sans
ae a Pea Bo + ‘
Avs eat,
4 4}

‘
~

re been
yas | ie “&)
¢ woe RD
a ere Y Oy
Re A PAGAN [URES TAS CES RRS RRC Pe
r PAD Lee Lard ae et ath Bee oc hay xy ie 2 +» PS elas he
BY} Aigaxun he ASL, ; ORGS. ta Vata Ot y
4 ¢ ir. tae. Bae, * ont ie a , >. ith S? An ads . ; : . ‘Aaa: Osa
Siieas iy teri ; Jag ea rene MN [A y 2 ny ; Ley i
NY ACA ae ; eX ar

>
Aho

ea
Ki

fo

Ws Rey,
eae
Sp ttrhe
> tke
ae. . »
a yes Fe ahs :
. a ae ey Pine
pee - pit Se Sg
OG », . ag ie ae ; P bt ¥, er > Aix 4 \ % Perak
SAIN AB enn Ws, Ete aaa SCO arae Rae RTE ARE aR he 0:
he as ; vive Foss Bos ht i, ‘ a ? - m. Bey) ate. hea Je Oe ines “ : Saks «2h I » Ger aay ’ is teat
BN Orie ia Re RNa Or : | 7 ee
ee ee
RES

os,
Tet

us
ae May
to”

a |

ee ome |
ae
A ~~

oy

<r

Relies da

ey

ms BN is:
A ae SNe
‘ tat Sf, ee
i PEAS

Ae ae ik
oS ae vie
Se thas wes

f hes
“¢ 1 ie

ey
x

~

5
#
a
d

eae a
Fe ene

Pot eae as? ) ¥ ytaeey,
Ce eras apf
Thee

wa ae
wea
uM

 

 

© 1932,
LiccetTt & MYERS
Tosacco Co.

Chesterfields are clicking with MILLIONS — They Satisfy

 

