pare ep

1g30 LAMP. ANION

Pa

“3 # 3 Sep Enna puck AON Use

oe

 

 

 

 

Attention, Alumni!

At a meeting of the BOARD OF TRUSTEES
of WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
held June 11, 1937, it was decided that The
Alumni Magazine be sent FREE OF CHARGE
for one year to EACH ALUMNUS contribut-

ing $5.00 or more to the CLASS FUND.

We hope you will enjoy reading the maga-
zine and will accept it as a token of our

appreciation of your cooperation.

H. K. (Cy) YOUNG,

Alumni Secretary

Where the alumnus is already a subscriber, the sub-

scription has been extended a year from expiration.

 

 

 

 

 

pee RPE. “08

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago |

Phillip P. Page, 12 East Grand Avenue.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

George McClure, Republic Nat’] Bank Bldg.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida,
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Reed Graves, Rivermon Avenue
Louisville, Kentucky

John J. Davis, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

Cc. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California

Los Angeles
St. Louis, Missouri

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

Vol. XII JUNE-JULY 1937 No. 5
FR Co tai: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor...................... C. Harotp LAuck

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Pemanemnt 55.620 CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President ..........0:.cccccccc0s. Kr Wituiams, 1915
SOCHEEDP.... 5G ixnksiess, Harry K. (Cy) Youne. 1917
Apne ae, Ee. Stuart Moore, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Joun BELL TowILt, 1929
Jor T. Lyxeks, 1909
H. H. LArtmore, 1896
NorMAN FirzHucu, 1898

 

 

 

Contents for June-July 1937

PAGE
The Uses of Tradition (The President’s Page) ...................... 3
Washington and Lee’s Presidents. .................cccccsescssecsssscseseeeeees +
oe Re os 2D 7 La ey et 7
RITAS “DAMS TIMROEY. (5...) ca cecdalvaes cdececedcseoycdelleccdedSye ay) 8
The Revival:of Interest in Creweioiiiiccccccccccccscecdescelcesechoviees os 9
Maintaining the University Plant.....................cccccccsscsscnesseeees 11
SOUMEAUMES POPPE RRINIIN 6c. 0e 5260p dab ek be comics spas Ah otha based a 15
The Story of a-Successful Banker...000..00.0 00.0. coccccccccceceteeeeees. 17
Chats With Your Friends and Mine... ee 19
Local Alumni Association Notes.............0...cccccccccccessesessseeeenseees 24
Minutes of the General Alumni Meeting............0..0.00...0.0000........ 25

Cee COR re a tee eA Ti No ee ot Coen

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

The Uses of Tradition

(The President's Page)

AST FALL it was our privilege to have, through the
generosity of the Carnegie Endowment, a visiting
professor for a month, Vice-Chancellor Percival R. Cole
of the University of Sydney, who greatly stimulated
thought in the campus community. Writing in an Aus-
tralian daily his impression of Virginia and of this in-
stitution, Dr. Cole says: “To stand before the
tomb of Lee and address the members of the
University is a solemn and unforgettable ex-
perience.’ How many thoughtful visitors to an
assembly in Lee Chapel have received the same
impression ! aioe
Not long ago I visited the home of a mem-
ber of the royal family of one of the ancient
Asiatic ruling houses. It was on a small scale a
kind of museum of treasures incalculably old,
with manifold carvings in ivory and precious
stones set in exquisite artistry and other heir-
looms of countless generations. But the man’s passion as
a collector was for cigarette lighters. I have never seen
so many. In his enthusiasm for this utterly modern gadget
I discerned a revolt against the unvarying and probably
monotonous decorations and values of the changeless
centuries.
ki
In the contrast between these points of view there
seems a suggestion of the extreme range of the influence
of tradition. It can be static or it can be dynamic. It can
chill or it can warm the soul. It can fetter or it can enlarge
liberty. It can drive men into frantic rebellion or it can
impel men into a quest for the Holy Grail.

Nm

As a function of education, this thing we call tradi-
tion can sometimes be recognized as the sustaining force
of quaint custom, made the more interesting as the years
pass, like the tolling of the bell one hundred and one
times each evening at one of the historic Oxford Col-
leges. It can conceivably freeze life into conventional
routine of thought, like the Chinese veneration for the
modes of the past. It can, on the other hand, prove the
source of incentive, the fountain of power.

 

Among American colleges, Washington and Lee is
probably famed as a seat of tradition. Obligations to our
patron saints and to the others who made possible this
institution is acknowledged and emphasized. It might be
a stagnating thing if the temporary expedients of these
great men, procedures in the face of problems long since
past, even their points of view to the transitory
needs of their day—if these things were incor-
porated in the timeless purpose of education.

*K *K **

But to draw from these men a conception of
the eternal principles that govern conduct, to
analyze the scale of the enduring values of life
as such rare spirits clarified them, to understand
their serene mastery of their own souls, to en-
vision their huge capacities for dedication of
life—this is to find in tradition a power that all
magnificence of physical plant and all the pat-
terns of formal instruction of the world cannot alone
supply. iar ke

In one memorial sentence John Ruskin seeks to phrase
our true riches, ‘“‘untormenting and divine; there are
several suggestions each of which might be a text for an
essay. One item remains with some challenge in my mind:
“mysteries and presences, innumerable, of living things.”
It is a part of education’s task to bring to life, in some
vague way, all the great life of the past, artistic, social,
economic. But how immense is the advantage of a school
that can keep alive on its campus the living presence of
certain personalities that forever represent the nobility

of the human soul. oy

Thus to impressionable minds the simple chapel that
opens before the sculptured image of Lee is not a mauso-
leum where sleeps the dust of a great man; this chapel is
not merely a shrine of holy recollections. It is the ex-
haustless spring of spiritual energy, serviceable in emi-
nently practical ways for the attainment of the finest end

L .

ee

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Lee's Presidents

Reprinted from the 1937 CALYx

N THE CouRSE of its corporate history, Washington

and Lee has had twelve presidents, twelve men of

widely disparate antecedents but singularly unified
aim. One of them came to Washington College after
serving as commander of the Confederate armies in the
Civil War. Another had sat in the Cabinet of the United
States. Others were chosen from the presidencies of
other colleges, or from the faculty of the University it-
self. Yet whatever their previous environment or pro-
fession, they have proven men of fine character, broad
educational philosophy, and whole-hearted devotion to
Washington and Lee.

Of the seven principals of Augusta Academy and Lib-
erty Hall prior to its incorporation, little is known today
except the name. Beginning with its incorporation by act
of the Virginia legislature in 1782, however, Liberty
Hall Academy was administered by the Reverend Wil-
liam Graham, who served fourteen years. After gradua-
tion from Princeton, Graham came to Liberty Hall in
1776, bringing with him the carefully-recorded notes
taken in his classes at Nassau Hall as a model for the
Academy’s courses. In 1796 he resigned to enter the Pres-
byterian ministry, and after a two-year mter-regnum,
the trustees elected as president George Addison Baxter.
This alumnus of Liberty Hall served until 1829, when he
resigned to devote his declinig years to the teaching of the-
ology at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

In 1830 Louis Marshall, brother of John Marshall,
and a native of Kentucky, assumed the presidency, bring-
ing with him an advanced educational theory embodying

 

William Graham

George Addison Baxter

features since adopted by various progressive institu-
tions in this country. The innovations proved too ad-
vanced for the times, and Marshall gave up in 1834, to
be succeeded by Henry Vethake. Dr. Vethake, a native
of British Guiana, found administrative work less to his
taste than teaching and two years later resigned to ac-
cept a professorship at the University of Pennsylvania,
where he later became provost.

The same vear Dr. Henry Ruffner, one of the great-
est men in the history of the University, was inaugurated
president. He served the college for twelve years and
among other intelligent services began a history of the
institution, today a valuable source of information. Ruff-
ner was succeeded upon his resignation in 1848 by
George Junkin, another remarkable personality. Dr.
Junkin was a native of Pennsylvania, founder of Miami
University and Lafayette College, and like his predeces-
sor was opposed to the institution of slavery. An in-
creasing divergence of sympathy between the president
and the students over the issue of secession came to a
climax in 1861, when the flag of the seceding state of
South Carolina was raised by a group of students on the
college flag staff. The incident was repeated, and before
dusk Dr. Junkin was driving out of Lexington towards
Philadelphia, never to return.

Never in its history had Washington College been
more destitute or forlorn than it was at the close of Civil
War hostilities. Not only did it lack equipment, endow-
ment, president, and part of its faculty, but students
were few in the impoverished South. Those professors

 

<

Louis Marshall

Silhouette by Charles Wilson Peele

[4]

Henry Vethake

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Henry Ruffner George Junkin

who remained, however, had sufficient faith in the school
to urge Robert EK. Lee to accept its presidency. In the
renascence which followed, students hastened from the
North as well as the South, endowment was trebled,
and Washington College with 400 students, became one
of the significant schools of the nation.

Upon Lee’s death his son, General George Washing-
ton Custis Lee, was called from a professorship at V. M.
[. to succeed his father. After twenty-seven years of dis-
tinguished service Custis Lee retired in 1897 and William
Lyne Wilson, former postmaster-general of the United
States, was made president. He died in office after three
brief years, and the trustees chose to succeed him George
Hutcheson Denny, professor of Latin in the University,
who bent his efforts towards the increase of endowment
and student body. His conspicuous success in these en-
deavors brought him to the attention of trustees of the
nascent University of Alabama, who called him to the
presidency of that institution. His successor was Henry
Louis Smith, member of a distinguished Southern family,

Robert Edward Lee George Washington Custis Lee

who left the presidency of Davidson College to come to
lexington. In the seventeen years he guided the Uni-
versity’s destinies, he proved a remarkable scholar and
educator with a continuing insistence upon high standards
of academic performance.

On December 31, 1928, Dr. Smith retired from the
presidency, and for over a year Robert H. Tucker, dean
of the University, was acting president. His service in
that transition period was typical of the splendid work
the Tucker and Campbell families have performed for
the University. Henry St. George Tucker had served
as acting president in 1900, and John L. and Henry D.
Campbell had jointly fulfilled a similar office in 1911.
Samuel L, Campbell, their great-great-grandfather, was
acting president from 1796 to 1798, between the Graham
and Baxter administration.

After considering a large number of possible succes-
sors to Dr. Smith the trustees of the University in 1930
chose Francis Pendleton Gaines, then president of Wake

(Continued on page 14)

 

William Lyne Wilson George Hutcheson Denny

cl

Francis Pendleton Gaines

Henry Louis Smith

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

1. 1937 Finals Figure. 2. The Academic Procession. 3. Alumni Luncheon.

[6 |

F he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Resume of the 188th Finals

ASHINGTON AND L&E closed its 188th Finals pro-

gram to the words of “College Friendships” at six
o'clock on Saturday morning, June 12, and joining in
were most of the one hundred and fifty-two new men
who had become privileged on Friday to call themselves
alumni of Washington and Lee University.

The Finals program opened with the baccalaureate
sermon in Lee Chapel on Sunday, June 6, by Bishop
Paul B. Kern of Durham, North Carolina. With exami-
nations continuing until six o’clock on Wednesday after-
noon, June 9, the social activities of Finals did not get
underway until the Interfraternity-Sigma Ball on Wed-
nesday night with Kay Kyser playing in his inimitable
fashion. Interfraternity Ball was led by Langdon Lamar
Skarda of Clovis, New Mexico, president of the Inter-
fraternity Council, with Miss Carolyn Ardery of Paris,
Kentucky. Sigma German of the same evening was led
by Amos Bolen of Ashland, Kentucky, with Miss Ro-
berta Cover of Elkton, Virginia.

Thursday morning at ten o'clock the Board of Trus-
tees held their annual Finals meeting, Thursday afternoon
the annual crew races between the Harry Lee and Albert
Sidney boat clubs were held on North river with the Al-
bert Sidney club the victor. Thursday afternoon at four
a dansant, sponsored by the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
was held in Doremus gymnasium with Kay Kyser again
playing. Alumni gathered in the Student Union at eight
o'clock to talk about their student days and to meet old
friends of college years. At nine o’clock Dr. and Mrs.
Francis P. Gaines, recently returned from Europe, were
hosts at the president’s home at a reception for the grad-
uates, trustees, visiting alumni and parents, and the even-
ing was climaxed by the Senior-Alumm Ball at ten
o'clock. Harold Waid Cochran, Jr., of
Hinsdale, Illinois, president of the senior
academic class, led the Senior figure with
Miss Delia Bryan Harrison of Petersburg,
Virginia.

Friday, June 11, was the Final day for
one hundred and fifty-two Washington
and Lee students as they gathered in Lee
Chapel to receive their diplomas. Com-
mencement and the annual procession of
trustees, faculty, and graduates to the
Chapel, filled to overflowing by parents
and friends of the graduates, was graced
with perfect weather. Numerous cameras

 

 

clicked as the procession moved toward the Chapel. The
valedictory address was delivered by Morton Allen Brown
of Toledo, Ohio, a senior in the academic school. The cli-
mactic feature of Commencement was the moving ora-
tory of Dr. Gaines as he delivered his final message to the
graduates. When the exercises in the Chapel were finished
the graduates filed out to receive congratulations from
proud parents. One o’clock and those graduates were wel-
comed as alumni of Washington and Lee at the annual
Alumni Luncheon. Final Ball at eleven o’clock that night
was led by the President of Finals, George Gilleland of
Orlando, Florida, with Miss Peggy Sparks of Covington,
Tennessee. The singing of ‘College Friendships” at six
o'clock Saturday morning ended the 188th Finals pro-
gram at Washington and Lee.

Of interest to alumni is the awarding of the Thomas
Nelson Page medallion, given annually by the University
to an alumnus for outstanding work in the interest of
Washington and Lee, to Edmund Douglas Campbell,
class of 1918, who is a member of the law firm of Doug-
las, Obear, Morgan and Campbell in Washington, D. C.
Campbell is a member of Phi Beta Kappa; of Phi Delta
Phi, legal fraternity; and of Omicron Delta Kappa. He
received his A. B. here in 1918, took his M. A. at Har-
vard in 1920 and his LL. B. here in 1922.

Also of interest to alumni was the reelection of Clar-
ence L,. Sager of New York as president of the Alumni
Association. Elected to serve on the alumni board were
Joseph T. Lykes of New York City; Stuart Moore of
lexington, Virginia; and John Bell Towill of Augusta,
Georgia.

Honored by the University with honorary degrees
this year were two alumni of Washington and Lee—
Craig Houston Patterson of Sutsien,
Kiangsu, China, and Brian Bell of San
Francisco, California.

Patterson, who received the degree of
Doctor of Divinity, is a missionary in
China. He received his A.B. here in 1919,
and is a member of Beta Theta Pi; of
Omicron Delta Kappa; of Phi Beta Kappa ;
and of Sigma Upsilon, English fraternity.

Brian Bell, who received the degree of
Doctor of Letters, is chief of the western
district of the Associated Press with of-
fices in San Francisco. He is a member of
the class of 1911.

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

Campus Headline History

By LatTHaM B. WEBER, 1937
Editor of The Ring-Tum Phi

Eprror’s Notre: The following is a continuation of the
Campus Headline History for 1936-1937 which was start-
ed in the April issue of The Alumni Magazine, and brings
the History up to the date of suspension of publication of
The Ring-tum Phi for summer vacation.

Tuesday, April 6
Billy Wilson, Kappa Alpha, Picked by Fourteen Clubs
to Head Ticket in Annual Election... .. Baseball Team
Loses Five Straight on Spring Trip... . Omicron Delta
Kappa Announces National Convention at W. and L.
1999. sits Movie Scout Seeks Embryonic Actors on

CORDES +10 Rpiday, Apel 9

Executive Committee Proposes Election of Editors
and Business Managers by Publication Board... . Phi
Eta Sigma, Freshman Scholastic Fraternity, Chartered on
Bobby Long, Star Footballer, Fails to

Tuesday, April 13
Hardwick Stuart Quits Fraternity to Oppose Wilson
for Presidency of Student Body. ... Kay Kyser Signed
for Finals. ... Dr. Basil Manly, Vincent M. Miles, Dr.
John M. Glenn, and Dr. James H. Dillard, Noted Alumni,
Speak at Current Affairs Forum... .

Friday, April 16
Joe Arnold Enters Race for Student Body Presi-
dency. . . . Big Blue Trackmen Bow to Maryland, But
Rogers Sets New Record in High Hurdles. . . . Students
Ready for Spring Dances... .

Tuesday, April 20
Wilson Fails to Receive Majority by Six-Vote Mar-
gin, Faces Arnold in Run-Off Election. . . . Dr. Gaines
Awarded Degree by University of Richmond. . . . Track-
men Fall Before Duke... .

Friday, April 23
Wilson Defeats Arnold by 84 Majority in Run-Offs.
_.. Homer A. Holt, Alumnus of W. and L., and Gover-
nor of West Virginia, Condemns Modern Wars in Peace
Speech. . . . Maryland Overwhelms Big Blue Nine

gy RDF Tuesday, April 27

Dance Board Votes Cash Dividends to Subscribers
for Spring and Finals Sets of Dances. . .. Herty Medal
Awarded to Dr. Howe... . Runners Bow to Richmond
by 75-51 Score. ...

Friday, April 30
Blue Nine Bows to State, 12-10, for Eleventh Straight
Loss. . . . Publicity Office Plans Survey to Determine
Most Cosmopolitan College... .

Tuesday, May 4
Interfraternity Council Endorses New Rushing Rules.
. . . Publication Board Approves Issuing of Southern
Collegian as Monthly Next Year... . General Nine Loses
Twelfth and Thirteenth Games. . . .

Friday, May 7
Fraternities Approve New Rushing System. . . Ad-
ministration Announces Addition of Four New Courses.
... G-Man Speaks to Law Students. . .

Tuesday, May 11
Faculty Approves Change in Requirements for A.B.
Degree as Present Group System is Revised to Allow
Emphasis on Majors. ... Frosh Ball Team Takes State
Title While Big Blue Commits 13 Errors to Drop Fif-
teenth Straight Contest... .

Friday, May 14
Seven Tennis Courts Under Construction to be Ready
in June... . Phi Psi's Win ODK Library Award... .
Freshmen End °37 ‘Track Season With Four Victories,
One Defeat... .
Tuesday, May 18
Kappa Sigs to Renovate House During Summer... .
Talent Scout Interviews Potential Movie Material... .
“Worst Season” on Diamond Ends with Loss to Virginia.

Friday, May 21
Abe Lyman Signed for Final Ball After Long Ne-
gotiation. ... Morton Brown Named Valedictorian. .. .
Calyx Named Best Annual in State. . . . Lambda Chi
Alpha and Pi Kappa Phi Plan New Houses for Fall of

eaves iss Tuesday, May 25

Course Records Fall as Rollins and W. and L. Divide
Honors in Local Crew Races. . . . Jim Rogers Elected
Track Captain for 38 Season... .

Friday, May 28
Russ Doane Succeeds Ches Shively as President of
1938 Fancy Dress, After Latter Leaves School. ....
Publicity Department Survey Shows W. and L. Most
Cosmopolitan American College. . . . Delta Tau Delta
Wins Intramural ‘Title by 71-Point Margin. . .

[8]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Revival of Interest in Crew

By WituiaAM B. BacBEy

NTEREST in the boat clubs at Washington and Lee

and in the annual races between the Harry Lee and

Albert Sidney crews at commencement has risen
and waned through the years, but not since 1922 when
Washington and Lee inaugurated intercollegiate rowing
in the South with Tulane University on North river has
enthusiasm for intercollegiate rowing been so great at
the University.

This year the boat clubs have combined to row eights
and have on their own initiative obtained races with Rol-
lins College in Winter Park, Florida, and with Manhat-
tan in New York. During the Spring Holidays, the com-
bined crews of Albert Sidney and Harry Lee, under the
leadership of Captain Erskine Sproul, made the trip to
Florida where they trained for a few days previous to
their race, and considering the handicaps under which
they labored, the outcome was not at all depressing,
though the Washington and Lee crew lost by three
lengths. A few weeks later the clubs again combined to
row eights against Manhattan. There, rowing over a
longer course than in Florida, the W. and L. crew lost
by four lengths. Then the crew of Rollins College, on its
way to New York to row Manhattan, stopped at Lexing-
ton and the crews divided to row fours on North river.
This time Washington and Lee broke even with the ‘ars,
Harry Lee winning by about two lengths while the Albert
Sidney crew, greatly outweighed by the Florida crew,
dropped their race by a wide margin.

Washington and Lee is proud of the fact that for a
long time it was the only Southern school that had a crew.
Now is the time to act if intercollegiate rowing is to be-
come an actual fact at Washington and | > eatin
Lee. Both clubs are greatly in need of , |
new shells, and if rowing is to be put on |
an intercollegiate basis, at least one eight |
oared shell should be obtained in order | —
that the crew might be used to handling
eights before intercollegiate races.

The history of the boat clubs at
Washington and Lee begins officially in |
1874 when the first race was held be- |
tween the Harry Lee and the Albert —
Sidney boat clubs on North river. The
clubs themselves, however, had been es-
tablished previous to that date, though
the exact date of their organization is
not definite. The Southern Collegian of
November 6, 1869, has this to say about

 

 

the Albert Sidney club, which is the older of the two:

“Amid the excitement of other sports and the hard
labor incident to College life, the students seem either to
have forgotten or ignored the existence of their Boat
Clubs at this place. The Albert Sidney, however, is
flourishing ; its boat has been re-painted, was launched a
few evenings since and seems delighted to glide over the
waters again. All should witness the rowing, and all stu-
dents should become rowers. For such manly and healthy
exercise as it affords should be encouraged under all cir-
cumstances and another inducement is that the wildest
fancy can find unspeakable joy in passing over the blue
waters and roaming about the craggy rocks that look
down upon the river, like the grand old mossy-ridged
Olympus.”

The writer of the article for The Southern Collegian
evidently was not a member of the boat club for even in
those days when wooden boats were used instead of shells
there was more to rowing than wandering among the
crags of Lexington’s ‘Pallisades.’ ”’

The article went on to say that the Board of Trustees
had appropriated four hundred dollars for the purchase
of boats. The writer even allowed his imagination to
wander as far as the days when the crews should be so
good they might “go and test the skill of the ‘Oxfords.’ ”

Indicative of the interest in boating in that period is
a short notice in The Southern Collegian of April 23,
1870, which says:

“The Harvards are avenged. ‘he Oxfords were re-
cently beaten, for the first time in a number of years, by
the Cambridge Crew. The betting was six to four in favor
of the Oxfords.”

Beginning with the year 1874 and
continuing until the present time, the
boat races between the two clubs have
become an annual feature of Finals.
Members of the Albert Sidney club in
1874 were C. W. Anderson, W. D. Brent,
John Gadsden, E. T. Howard, J. B. Les-
lie, R. A. Robinson, and T. 'T’. Shreve.

Harry Lee members were J. FE. Dun-
bar, B. B. Ford, W. J. Gayer, F. E.
Goldthwaite, W. H. Hoffman, W. F.
Michie, and Harry St. George ‘Tucker.

The first race which took place on
June 23, 1874, resulted in a draw. A
foul was credited to the Albert Sidney
boat but was not noticed by the judges.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

In 1875 a silver cup was offered to the winner of the race
and the Harry Lee club carried off the prize. Albert
Sidney turned the tables the next year, winning by five
lengths. In the sixty-six races of which we have record,
thirty-one have been victories for the Harry Lee club,
thirty-two victories for Albert Sidney and three were
draws. The Albert Sidney club was the victor in the races
held during the recent Finals.

Annual scourge of the race is the rain which persists
in falling each afternoon around the time of Finals. The
1936 race was rowed in a downpour and according to our
reporter of The Southern Collegian the crews of earlier
years often labored under the same handicap.

Interest increased in the early 1900's, in 1922 the clubs
staged the South’s first intercollegiate race with Tulane.
The clubs had been rowing the Virginia Boat Club for
some years prior to 1922 and had been very successful in
their races with the Richmond club. The Tulane club
came to Lexington in June of 1922 and on June 9 and 10
the Tulane crew raced the crews of the two Washington

and Lee clubs. Harry Lee was the victor over the Louisi-
ana school in the first race on June 9 but on the second
day Tulane out-rowed the Albert Sidney club to take the
decision by about three-quarters of a length.

W. C. Raftery, one-time General football star and
who was recently football coach at V. M. I., served for a
while as coach of the clubs. R. N. Latture, now a member
of the faculty at Washington and Lee was president of
the Albert Sidney club in his student days.

The present members of the crew are greatly interest-
ed in preserving this traditional sport at Washington and
Lee but they are of the opinion that tradition has been
carried a little too far in the matter of equipment for
they are now using the shells that their fathers might
have used when they were students here. After their am-
bitious program of this year, the future of the rowing
organizations will depend upon some early effort to aid
them in obtaining new equipment. Unless some move is
made toward this end, it seems very likely that this sixty-
six year old W. and L.. sport will have to be discontinued.

 

Center: The W. and L. Crew at Winter Park. Top: Rollins College Wins by Five Lengths. Bottom: Captain Erskine Sproul

| 10]

 

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

Maintaining the University Plant

By J. ALEXANDER VEECH, 1931
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds

a5 PROBLEM of maintaining and operating the plant

as of a university has changed greatly within the past
thirty or forty years. New buildings of fireproof and
sanitary construction simplify the task of maintenance
and operation since fewer repairs are required than for
the older types. Moreover, when they are clean, they look
clean. On the other hand, these newer buildings are more
difficult to repair and to alter if necessary, and the prob-
lem of their upkeep is made more intricate by the fact that
the apparatus they contain—plumbing, heating and venti-
lating—is more complicated.

The definition of maintenance with regard to school
administration is best given by Mr. H. P. Smith in his
book on “Business Administration of Public Schools.”
It states that ‘Maintenance is that phase of school ad-
ministration which is concerned with the keeping of the
physical plant available without interruption for educa-
tional service when the college is in session. It is also con-
cerned with the depreciation of the school plant, the cor-
responding upkeep, repair, and replacement of its parts.
It includes both the current repairs and the annual sum-
mer repairs. It must provide for such custodial and in-
spectional service as to anticipate defects and correct
them before they become a menace to the efficiency of the
college, and a source of needless expense. This phase of
administration is concerned not only with providing work-
men to do the repair jobs, but to set up a system of hand-
ling the necessary men and materials in an efficient and
business like manner.”

These duties were formerly carried on by one mem-
ber of the Administration and two members of the
faculty. Mr. Paul M. Penick, Treasurer of the University,
had charge of the operation and maintenance of the build-
ings, while Dr. R. W. Dickey, Professor of Physics and
Electrical Engineering, had charge of the heating plant,
and Professor Hale Houston of the Civil Engineering
Department was Superintendent of Grounds. Due to the
increasing amount of work added to their regular duties,
the Board of ‘Trustees ordered that the office of Superin-
tendent of Buildings and Grounds be created, and Mr.
J. Alexander Veech was appointed to this position on
January 1, 1937.

This office is responsible for keeping the physical plant
available without interruption for educational purposes
while college is in session, and for handling the necessary
upkeep and repair. Thus the office of the Superintendent

of Buildings and Grounds becomes a clearing house for
all the ills of the University.

WorkK INVOLVED

1. Utilities—Operation and maintenance of central
heating plant, including the distribution of coal to the
several buildings which have their own heating and hot
water plants; electric service to all of the buildings; and
water supply to the buildings, fire hydrants, and athletic
field.

2. Operation of Buildings—The janitor service oper-
ates under the superintendent. It is his obvious duty to
keep the buildings clean at all times and ready for the use
intended. Any special uses of the buildings are reported
to the office where special arrangements with the janitors
are made. Under this heading comes the watching and
policing of the buildings and grounds, electrical and
plumbing repairs.

3. Maintenance of Buildings—This requires the ser-
vices of carpenters, a cabinet-maker for the repair and
making of new furniture, and painters. Other skilled
tradesmen needed are enlisted from those men living in
and around Lexington.

4. Maintenance of Grounds—This service includes
the care of the lawns, shrubs, vines, sweeping of walks,
snow removal, care of trees, building and repairing walks
and roadways, and the care of the tennis courts.

Other items which are involved are the maintenance
of, redecorating and remodeling of the homes owned by
the University and occupied by the faculty and several of
the fraternities, and any other special work in building,
landscaping and departmental work which is handled by
the regular college force or is contracted outside.

ProcreEss THis YEAR

1. The service entrance of the electric power company
has been changed so that it now enters the rear of the
University property, thereby getting rid of many of the
unsightly poles which have long been eyesores. The tele-
phone service enters the grounds the same way. All ser-
vice wires to the new buildings are run underground from
this main line, so that all of the wires possible are out of
sight.

2. There has been a preliminary survey and a report
made with reference to a new heating plant to replace the
old one. It is planned to put this plant across the Wood's

[11]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

See See a =e yc nn : ae 5
ae eae ey Ws

i sae ee your

eee

OI
7
bs

lid

a -< N

-~

nee eta Sheik eet ee en me ——— lcieueid aie 4
sh ne eee Saal

Pa
Views sata the fireproofing and reconstruction of Washington College

[12]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Creek ravine, thus eliminating the unslightliness of the
present plant and ridding the University of the problem
of dust, smoke and ugliness.

3. With the changes wrought by the architects in the
old buildings came the necessity of educating the janitors
to new equipment, materials and cleaning methods. A
thorough study of the subject was made and the results
have been highly satisfactory. The added space made
available by the ingenuity of the architects has made it
necessary to add more janitors to the staff.

4. Since the renovation of the main group of college
buildings has just been completed, maintenance work has
been concentrated on the other buildings owned by the
University. One house recently bought by the University
has been completely remodeled into two apartments and
will be occupied by two faculty members and their wives.
A painting program has been instituted and it is expected
that the buildings will be painted every five or six years.
The four white-columned houses on the campus are now
having the white wood trim painted so that they will be in
keeping with the beauty of the main buildings. Routine
decoration and freshening of several of the campus houses
occupied by members of the faculty is now being done.

Regular annual and seasonal inspections are being
made of all buildings inside and out, from the foundations
to the roof, so that necessary repairs can be made before
any damage is done.

5. During the winter months the carpenter shop was
kept busy making desks for offices and turning out book
cases for the new offices in the renovated buildings. Period
furniture made from authentic designs was made for
some of the class rooms and administrative offices. Lecture
tables made for the professors’ use in the class rooms have
turned legs made from lumber saved from the old build-
ings. Mr. Bruce Agnor, for many years the college, car-
penter and cabinet maker, was responsible for this bit of
sentiment. He has done some beautiful work in reproduc-
ing this furniture.

6. The grounds at the rear of the buildings, left so
desolate and bare by the workmen after the renovation was
completed has been graded, fertilized and sown with a
mixture of Kentucky Blue Grass and White Clover.
Thanks to a perfect spring and plenty of April showers
there is now a velvety greensward comparable to the
front campus remembered so well by all of those who have
viewed its loveliness. All evidence of the contractor’s en-
campment has now been erased, and the vines which were
so rudely torn down have already manifested their in-
terest and pride in the new buildings by first sending out
delicate green shoots to explore, then climbing with eager
tendrils half way up the walls to clothe them in a soft
green dress.

7. The old clay tennis courts under the foot bridge
leading to the Wilson Athletic Field have brought many

favorable comments from visiting tennis teams this
spring. An adequate system of drains were laid around
the courts and designed to take the rainwater and ground
water away from the playing surfaces before any damage
could be done. This past tennis season there was only a
very few days when the courts were not available, even
though the rain was above normal for that time of the
year. Additions of sand to the clay surface greatly im-
proved the playing conditions, and next year small changes
in the surfacing promises to place Washington and Lee’s
tennis courts among the best in the South.

8. There are now under construction six new bitumin-
ous hard-surface courts which will give the students the
advantage of all weather play. These courts should in-
crease the playing season about seventy-five percent. One
of these courts will be covered with Corkturf, which is
ground cork mixed with a bituminous binder. This pre-
sents a surface midway between grass and clay courts
and has been used with great success on the Colgate Uni-
versity courts as well as those of many Eastern tennis
clubs. It is hoped that sufficient funds will be available in
the future to surface all of these hard-surface courts with
the cork. This new battery of courts brings the total to
ten doubles courts and three singles courts.

NEXT ON THE List

1. The parking of automobiles on the campus is a
problem which has become acute in recent years. The
roadway back of the University is too narrow to allow
parking there to continue. It is planned this summer to
relieve this situation by creating a parking area near the
Chemistry building at one end of the instructional build-
ings, and the area near the library will be enlarged to give
adequate facilities at the other end of the buildings.
Shrubs will be used for screening the parking area as
much as possible. Definite plans have not been made to
take care of the parking around the gymnasium during
dances and athletic contests, but before the summer is
over it is hoped that the conditions heretofore existing
will be remedied.

2. It is planned to have a topographical map of the
University property made during the summer. This will
be a great aid in planning the future development of the
physical plant of the University, and also in recording
the underground network of sewers, drains, water pipes,
steam pipes, etc., for the necessary maintenance work.
long needed, this map will be useful in many ways.

3. Next fall it is hoped that many specimens of the
native flowering shrubs can be obtained from the sur-
rounding mountain sides and transplanted in the Wood's
Creek ravine just back of the University. This ravine
holds many possibilities for landscaping, and with the dog-
wood, laurel, and redbud available, advantage should cer-
tainly be taken of the latent beauty of this wooded valley.

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Hoprs

On the “President’s Page” in a recent issue of The
Alumni Magazine under the title of ‘Progress and Hopes’
there is shown the need of completing the building pro-
gram which is imperative to a complete physical plant in
which we may carry on the objectives before us. Dr.
Gaines has listed the following :

(a) New Heating Plant—The present heating plant
is housed in a rather dilapidated brick and stone building,
not at all suited to modern power plant requirements. It
is located very near the main group of college buildings
where dirt and noise are objectionable and occupies space
which may be needed in the future development of the
institution. This building is not of fireproof construction
and constitutes a fire hazard for the plant and the sur-
rounding buildings.

The smoke and soot from the boiler plant have al-
ready discolored some of the exterior trim and decorative
work on the reconstructed Washington College Buildings,
adding to the difficulties of keeping the buildings clean,
both inside and out.

The plant was constructed almost thirty-two years ago
and no improvements of any consequence have been made
since that time except in the replacement of items which
have proved inadequate or were entirely worn out.

The general arrangement of the plant is undesirable
and inefficient from an operating standpoint and its piping
and general equipment have so far depreciated that there
is little possibility of its successful reconstruction within
its present building.

(b) An Enlarged Library—The heart of any Univer-
sity is its library. In order to keep abreast in the march of
contemporary education this building must be enlarged to
give the necessary reference facilities to the students.

(c) Another Dormitory—With the established policy
that all freshmen must live in the dormitory, it has been
found that the present quarters are inadequate. The ex-
isting dormitories should be remodeled, and a new dormi-
tory erected to adequately accommodate the incoming
classes. There is much to be said for the desirability of
such changes and the benefits which could be derived
from them. For more detailed information you are re-
ferred to the members of the faculty who have given so
freely of their time as Freshman Advisers, and to the
upperclassmen who act as councilors and live with the
boys in the dormitories. The success of the adviser and
councilor system depends in a large measure on these
changes and additions to the dormitory system.

(d) New Auditorium— This need is well known
among the alumni who have been familiar with the seating
arrangement and the acoustical qualities of the gymnas-
ium when it is used as an auditorium. Adequate and com-
fortable auditorium space is necessary for one of the most
significant phases of education today—the grouping to-

gether to hear the guest speakers who bring to the student
body the inspiration and interpretation of ideas from their
respective fields.

(e) An Additional Classroom Building—The Geology
and Biology departments are crowded and _ laboratory
space is limited in certain fields due to the lack of instruc-
tional space. One additional building for such purpose
would complete the requirements of Washington and Lee

in this respect. ew %

To these hopes of Dr. Gaines, there are several which
might be added. First there is an intramural field to take
care of the increasing number of students taking part in
these sports. There is an urgent need for additional space
where the games can be carried on. Widespread interest
has been exhibited and much has been done in the past
few years to stimulate interest in intramural activities.

Secondly, there has been a nation-wide development in
“carry-over” sports, that is, games which can be played
after graduation from college. Golf is one of the best
known and widely played of the “carry-over” sports. This
is taken care of by the local golf course where special
monthly and seasonal rates are given to the undergrad-
uates, and instruction given during the regular gym class
periods on the athletic field. Tennis has been cared for by
the additional courts previously mentioned. However,
there are not enough facilities for the indoor “carry-over”
sports. The handball courts are inadequate to take care
of the large number of men who like to play. Additional
squash racquet and badminton courts would add to the
versatility of the men leaving the University and give
them a variety of indoor sports from which to choose.
Certainly these should be encouraged by the installation
of adequate space and facilities.

The realization of these hopes should enable Washing-
ton and Lee to offer the quality of instruction, both mental
and physical, which should characterize the University.

 

Washington and Lee’s Presidents

(Continued from page 5)

Forest College, for the office. Today, after a seven-year
tenure of that office, Dr. Gaines is regarded as one of
the outstanding college presidents of the country. For
the first time in its nearly 200 years of existence the
University is developing the plant and approaching the
endowment necessary for full realization of its possi-
bilities. Under Dr. Gaines’ administration the schools,
departments, and courses of the University have been
integrated and a balanced curriculum has been achieved.
In years to come there are doubtless other ideals to be
attained, but those familar with him and his work are
convinced there is no abler man to secure their realiza-
tion than Francis Pendleton Gaines.

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Spring Sports Results

By WiciiAM B. BaGpBEy

ERE WE ARE with the final round-up of the ac-
tivities of the Washington and Lee athletic teams
of the session of 1936-1937 and we are forced to
sing a tale of woe as far as the achievements of the spring
sports teams are concerned. ‘The baseball team celebrated
Capt. Dick Smith’s fifteenth year as baseball coach at the
University by making a perfect record during their season
of seventeen games—they lost seventeen and won not a
one. Emerson Dickman, captain-elect of the Generals’
nine for this season, did not return to school this year and
the team suffered the whole season for the lack of an ex-
perienced pitching staff. LeRoy Dart, pitching his first
year on the varsity, carried most of the hurling duties but
errors by his mates in the field

fifth in the Southern Conference meet at Durham. Jim
Rogers of Wheeling, West Virginia, captain-elect of the
trackmen for next year, was probably the most outstand-
ing performer on this year’s track squad. Rogers has
stepped into the hurdling shoes of Bill Schuhle, captain
and star of last vear’s team. Rogers placed first in the
high hurdles in every dual meet of the year, winning be-
sides the state and conference crowns in this event. Rog-
ers also placed third in the annual Penn Relays. Other
individual stars were sophomore Harold Harvey from
Brooklyn, New York, whose specialty is the middle dis-
tances, and Charles Prater of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
Coach Fletcher's yearling trackmen presented a fairly
well balanced team which was still

 

coupled with a hitting slump on weak in the field events. Charles
the part of the whole team pre- FOOTBALL SCHEDULE Curl of Helena, Arkansas, con-
vented his approaching the good 1937 stituted a one-man track team,
work of last year on the frosh Sept. 25 Wofford... Lexington, Va. winning the one hundred, two-
nine. Norman Iler, captain of Oct, 2» Richmond...cesessiste sexington, | Va. twenty, and four-forty and run-
Washington and Lee’s Southern . a rs sien: a ree re - oT ning anchor man on the Briga-
Conference basketball cham- se os ae y Tere et dier’s winning relay team in the
pions last winter and three time tee Syke oe as Va. state meet held at V. M. I.

all-Southern guard, was elected ee s* #\inwtnle ce. : dainithe: Wk, The tennis team was handi-
captain of the ill-fated team of de Al NT en Bee Williamsburg, Va. capped by the illness of Richard
’37, but Norman was unable to Nov. 25 Maryland ........0..... Baltimore, Md. Clements, who played in number
lead his team to anything like the Se one position, and the ineligibility
record of the basketball team. of last year’s freshman star, Ed

 

 

 

Though the hurling staff will still

be weak next season, some improvement will be noted
from work of several performers on the freshman team.
Arnold Heft, south-paw pitcher from Washington, D. C.,
should prove effective next season and his battery-mate,
Jack Danglier will push Don Dunlap, varsity catcher of
this season, hard for the catching assignment. Baker At-
wood, Ferguson, Missouri, should also pull up the hitting
average of the team somewhat if he continues to hit as
well next season as he did this year on the freshman team.
The Brigadier nine won eight of their eleven games this
season, lost two, and tied one.

Captains-elect for next season’s nine are Frank Fra-
zier of Evanston, Illinois, and John Grant ( Mike) Tomlin
of Cincinnati, Ohio, first and third basemen, respectively,
on this year’s team.

The track team, too, was unable to out-point any of its
opponents this spring, largely because of the lack. of men
in the field and weight events. The Generals bowed to
Maryland, Duke, Richmond, and V. P. I., but finished

Ernst. Stuart Reynolds of An-
niston, Alabama, who has been elected captain of the
tennis team for next year, was a consistent winner this
season as the netmen won two while dropping six of their
eight matches. The Washington and Lee team came close
to upsetting Virginia's experienced racqueteers in a match
on the W. and L,. courts, dropping the concluding doubles
match and losmg by a score of five to four. Previously
scheduled matches prevented entering of any men in
the Conference tournament in Richmond. William Wash-
burn, from the home town of next year’s captain, Rey-
nolds, was the star of the freshmen netmen this season
and should earn a varsity position next spring.

Concluding the survey of spring sports is the golf
team which won one of its five matches. It has been called
to our attention that Duncan McDavid of Pensacola,
Florida, former golf and swimming star at Washington
and Lee has just captured the Alabama State Open
crown. McDavid was a member of the golf team for
three years and captain of the swimming team. He held

[15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

the Southern Conference record in the fifty and hundred.

Turning from the rather gloomy record of these
spring sports teams, we would like to give you the sched-
ule of the football team for next season. State champions
in 1936, the Generals have almost as tough a schedule for
1937 as they had last season. The only changes from last
season are Wofford College instead of Elon in the open-
ing game of the season and Richmond instead of the
United States Military Academy in the second week.
With most of the men on last year’s team returning, the
“Fighting Generals” of 1937 should show some improve-
ment over last season. In Harrison Hogan, who will be a
sophomore next year, Coach Tilson has one of the most
promising backs in the conference. The Generals will be
strong at end and at tackle but slightly weaker at guard
with the loss of Captain Duane Berry and Jim Lindsey.
Next fall will see two changes in the Generals. One will
be the complete new uniforms with which they will be
equipped and the second is the addition of Eugene White
to the coaching staff in the place of Amos Bolen who has
been Tilson’s assistant for the last two years. White, a
graduate of Washington and Lee in 1929, has been head
coach at Stephen F. Austin State Teachers College in
Nacogdoches, ‘Texas, for the last eight years. He will have
charge of the backfield. Next fall will also see four Vir-
ginia teams playing in Lexington on the same day as hap-
pened two years ago. Both Washington and Lee and
V. M. I. will have their homecoming on November 6.
V. M. I.’s game is scheduled in the morning while Wash-
ington and Lee will play at the usual afternoon time, re-
versing the order of two years ago.

 

Washington Letter

A RECENT DISCOVERY by Miss Helen Webster in the
Treasurer’s office, unearthing old manuscripts, reveals the
interesting fact that the letter from George Washington
approving the change of name of this institution in his
honor, probably our most precious historical document,
was carried away by Federal soldiers at the time of the
Civil War and was not returned for several years. Inter-
esting local coincidence comes to light in connection with
this discovery. The Federal soldier in whose possession
the letter was, lived in Wheeling, West Virginia, deciding
that he would return it to the University, he approached
a prominent lawyer of that city and asked him to write to
General Lee. This lawyer agreed and the return of the
letter followed. The coincidence lies in the fact that the
lawyer who performed the kind office of intermediary was
James P. Rogers, grandfather of our student of the same
name, now president of the local circle of O. D. K.

Faculty Member Writes Novel

‘(On BorroweEp TIME,” a novel by Lawrence E. Wat-
kin, assistant professor of English and director of the
Troubadours, will be published in August by Alfred A.
Knopf, publisher, of New York.

The novel, the first Mr. Watkin has written, is de-
scribed by its author as a fantasy. Although no exact locale
is depicted, Mr. Watkin had in mind a section in upstate
New York, in which he spent his boyhood.

Mr. Watkin came to the University about ten years
ago, a graduate of Syracuse University and of Harvard,
where he took his M. A. He teaches several freshman and
sophomore courses and next term will introduce a course
in advanced composition open to a selected group of
upperclassmen.

During Mr. Watkin’s career at Washington and Lee
he has distinguished himself by the direction of some of
the finest productions ever given by the Troubadours. On
three occasions the group has produced original works of
its director, offering “Peace Hath Her Victories” in 1932,
during the Washington bi-centennial ; “Mr. Painter’s Pal-
ace of Pleasure” in 1934, and “Tomorrow Appears” in
1935. He plans to begin work on a second novel during
the summer. —P.S. R.,Jr.

 

Alumnus Writes Sociology Text

Ropert M. Bear, A.B., 1922, M.A., 1924, is the
author of The Social Functions of Education, recently
published by the Macmillan Company. This new text for
courses in educational sociology gives the student an un-
usually broad perspective on the function of education in
all aspects of group life and in that of the individual. An
introductory section defines the nature and general func-
tion of education through chapters based on the cultural
approach of sociology and on principles of personality
development from social psychology. There follows dis-
cussion of the particular relationship of education to the
family, industrial life, recreational life, the community,
religion, etc., in which are given the evolutionary history
of each of these main institutions of society, its current
functioning, and its critical problems. The final section of
the book discusses social progress and the social responsi-
bilities of the educator toward social improvement.
Throughout the book controversial points of view are
fairly presented, and excellent use has been made of up-
to-date educational studies and reports.

Mr. Bear is assistant professor of Psychology, and
was formerly assistant professor of Education, at Dart-
mouth College.

[16]

on
€

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Story of a Successful Banker

ASHINGTON AND L£E alumnus Arthur W. McCain,
now vice-president of the Chase National Bank,

New York, was born April 26, 1894. He received his A.B.
degree from the University in 1914. While a student here
he became a member of Phi Kappa Psi, social fraternity ;
Phi Beta Kappa, honor-
ary society; and Pan,
ribbon society. He was
valedictorian of his class
and a member of the
varsity basketball team.
After leaving Wash-
ington and Lee in 1914,
Mr. McCain went to
work in the Bank of
Jonesboro, Jonesboro,
Arkansas, in September,
1914, “as messenger boy
and first assistant to the
janitor.” In July, 1916,
he left there and went to
the National City Bank
in New York as a stu-
dent in their foreign
training class, and in
February, 1917, was sent
out by them to their
branch at Buenos Aires.
In October, 1917, he was
tranferred to the Na-
tional City Bank at Ba-
hai, Brazil. In addition
to the change in banking
location this brought him
some other experiences,
because Bahia had been
the original capital of
Brazil and of the
centers of the slave trade
in the days that flourished. The result is that the popula-
tion of Bahia is about 90 percent negro, and the negro
taint runs pretty near through all classes of society.
Imagine what a shock it was to his Arkansas training
when he went to a dance there and found the three most

one

attractive girls and best dancers at the party all had
chocolate skins and kinky hair.

In Bahia Mr. McCain got his first position as Sub-
Accountant of the bank, and in October, 1918, was trans-

 

Arthur W. McCain, 1914

ferred to the office of the National City Bank of San-
tiago de Chile, where a branch was soon opened. He got
his second promotion at this office, where he was made
Sub-Manager. After a vacation in the United States in
1920, he went back to the National City Branch at Ro-
sario, Argentine, where
he stayed only a few
months. He then joimed
Na-

Boston,

up with the First

tional Bank of
which was planning to
open a branch in Rio de
Janeiro. He went to that
city in December, 1920,
the de-
pression 1n 1920 and 1921

but because of

the bank decided not to
open its Rio office, and
Mr. McCain went to the
Suenos Aires, Argentine,
as sub-manager of the
Kirst National Bank of
Boston’s branch there.
He came to the United
States in December of
1923 on vacation, and on
April 14, 1924, married
Marion
Little

They

Vinsonhaler of
Rock, Arkansas.
went back to
Suenos Aires and their
first child, Mary Wren-
etta McCain, was born
in Buenos Aires in Feb-
ruary, 1926.

In 1928 Mr. McCain
was elected a vice-presi-
dent of the National Park
Bank of New York in
Foreign Department, and came back to the United States.
The National Park Bank was merged with The Chase
National Bank in 1929, so that he came to his present
connection as a vice-president of the Foreign Department
on that date. He continued in foreign work until the
summer of 1933, when he left the Foreign Department
to take charge of the bank’s business in the eleven western
states of this country. This is the work that he is now
handling together with the bank’s cotton loans. ‘Two

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

other children were born in this country, Frances, October
10, 1930, and Arthur W., Jr., April 15, 1934.

Mr. McCain and his family have been living in Scars-
dale Westchester County, New York, since coming back
to the United States.

 

Two Portraits Given University

Two portrairs of distinguished alumni of Washing-
ton and Lee have recently been presented to the Univer-
sity, as follows:

Judge C. C. Garrett, 1869, B.P., B.A., who died Sep-
tember, 1905. At the time of his death Judge Garrett was
Chief Justice of the Court of Civil Appeals, First Judicial
District at Galveston, Texas. This portrait was presented
by Judge Garrett’s daughter, Mrs. Elsie Garrett ‘Townes,
Houston, ‘Texas, and has been received at the University.

Dr. G. Watson James, 1863, D.L. Dr. James was, at
the time of his death, on the editorial staff of the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch, and was well known in literary
circles throughout the country. ‘This portrait was present-
ed by Dr. James’ sons.

 

An Enviable Athletic Record

Editor’s Note—The following item appeared in “Strange
As It Seems” as of July 13, 1937, and although I know that
“Cy” (who is at present on a tour of the Middle West in the
interest of the University) will not approve of its insertion in
The Alumni Magazine, I feel that it will be of definite interest
to the alumni. —C. H. L.

16-LETTER MAN

Harry (Cy) Young, varsity basketball coach, fresh-
man baseball and football coach, and alumni secretary of
Washington and Lee, shouldn’t have much trouble de-
flating ‘“‘swell heads” among his charges. A simple recita-
tion of his own athletic successes at the university should
suffice to humble the most boastful undergraduate.

From 1913 through 1917, Young starred in football,
baseball, basketball and track. He won his letter in each
sport for four consecutive years, giving him 16 letters in
all. In his last three years of football he was selected for
the All-Southern team, made the All-Southern basketball
team in his last two years, led the University baseball
team in hitting, stolen bases, and runs in 1915, 1916 and
1917; and made a school record for the 100-yard dash,
9.8 seconds, that still stands.

Young was elected captain of the track, football and
basketball teams in the same year, 1916, and was captain
of the baseball team in 1917. He was a member of prac-
tically every honor society on the campus and was
elected president of the final ball in his senior year.

"Virginia: The Old Dominion”

In “The Bowling Breen,” a section whic he contrib-
utes regularly to The Saturday Review, Christopher
Morley says: “Matthew Page Andrews, who was our
history teacher when we were a schoolboy in Baltimore,
has written a lusty tome (Doubleday, Doran) called Vir-
gimia: The Old Dominion, a full-bodied history of that
romantic commonwealth, based in large part upon little-
known sources. Mr. Andrews admirably instilled into his
pupils a kind of skepticism about the too-familiar parrotry
of conventional history; but what made even more im-
pression on us as a child of fifteen, he was a dazzling
baseball pitcher. (If we remember, he pitched for Wash-
ington and Lee in his college days.) We still remember a
certain ball he could throw, which had the devil of an up-
ward hop as it crossed the plate, and sank into the catch-
ers’ mit with that particular chunking thud that no
striker-out ever forgets.”

 

Another Letter From James Veech

Mr. H. K. Young, Secretary
Lexington, Virginia
My Dear Mr. Young:

One of the national officers of the American Red Cross
said to me in the past few weeks that the flood disaster of
Louisville was the largest job the National Red Cross ever
handled. :

As the local end of the relief was direced by a Wash-
ington and Lee University alumnus, T. Kennedy Helm,
1895, I thought it might be of interest to the alumni body.

Off the press on Saturday came the report of the Re-
lief Committee and I am forwarding a copy to you which
tells something of the great work, successfully done under
Helm’s direction. He spent eight days at Red Cross head-
quarters without a change of clothes or a bed to sleep on.
During this time his family was compelled to leave their
home and take to the tall timber.

It was a great pleasure to be associated with him in
this work on the Committee of Supplies.

Yours truly,
JAMEs N. VEEcH, 1894

 

Rollins Coach Praises Crew

U. T. BRaDLEy, crew coach at Rollins College, in writ-
ing of the visit of the Washington and Lee crew to Rol-
lins during the spring holidays, says: “I cannot restrain
my impulse to write and tell you how much my crew boys
and I enjoyed the visit of the Washington and Lee crews.
If that group is representative of your student body, you
surely have a college to be proud of.”

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Youne, Alumni Secretary

She RECORDS SAY our very first Finals were held 188

not those Finals were a success, how the music was, or

years ago. There is no one living to say whether or

how many were present. I am grateful to be able to say
that I was present at the 1937 Finals and, to those of you
who were not here, | am going to try and give you the
low-down on what happened. Of course there is a lot that
happened that I can’t tell you.

The weather was perfect; the campus never looked
more beautiful. The hired help had given it a facial for the
occasion, The new and remodeled build-
ings stood out in all their glory. I took
advantage of all this and brought my
moving picture camera into action with
colored films which I hope to be able to
show many of you at the various alumni
meetings that | attend next fall and winter.

The big show opened with the Inter-
fraternity Ball on Wednesday night. Not
many of the older alumni had arrived for
this occasion but the younger boys and
their girls held forth. It was a fitting oc-
casion to open festivities.

The next day the older crowd began
to arrive and by noon Alumni Headquar-
ters were swarming with alumni greeting
‘ach other. I might mention here that
our new headquarters, which we use for
Finals and Homecoming in the new Stu-
dent Union building, added considerably
to the occasion. With its many rooms so
attractively and comfortably furnished,
it was very handy for those classes hold-
ing reunions to get together informally.

At 2:30 on this day the annual boat races were held
and of course the island was crowded with former Albert
Sidney and Harry Lee oarsmen. There was considerable
wagering on the outcome of the races and when the crews
came in sight around the bend the familiar yells—‘Come
on, Albert Sidney—Come on, Harry Lee,” could be heard
for miles. We are very happy to report there has been a
revival of interest in crew. Apparently there was more in-
terest shown than in many years past. I hope the day is
not too far distant when we will see more stores and
homes in Lexington decorated with the familiar Albert
Sidney and Harry Lee colors.

There might be a chance of getting out the old tally-ho

 

and driving to the river once more. To those of you who
belong to Albert Sidney I am sure you will be glad to
know that your crew crossed the finish line well in front.

After the boat races the crowd adjourned to Doremus
Gymnasium for a dansant to rest and dance to Kay Kyser
and his very collegiate orchestra. These afternoon dances
are most enjoyable as they are so informal.

The next thing was the Alumni Smoker held on the
lower floor of the Student Union. This smoker, started
four years ago, has become one of the most pleasant fea-
tures of Finals, especially on a hot night,
as there is plenty of free beer. It is in-
formal but many of the alumni come in
evening dress to spend an hour or so and
then go on to the President's reception,
which is given each year for seniors and
their parents and visiting alumni. This
was, as usual, a most elegant function
and graciously presided over by Dr. and
Mrs. Gaines.

‘rom the President’s home the crowd
adjourned to the gymnasium where the
Senior-Alumni Ball was in full swing.
This was the high-light for those alumni
who like to trip the light fantastic. The
alumni figure was held about midnight
and hundreds of the “Old Grads,” their
wives, and lady friends participated. The
figure was led by Ed Caffrey, a former
Alumni President. The dance did not end
until the ““wee sma’ hours,” at least for
those who could take it.

The next day, Friday, was Alumni
Day and more of our friends poured in
from the nearby towns to participate in the festivities of
their day. As many as could get in attended Commence-
ment Exercises. There were more outside than in, due to
the smallness of our Chapel. By the way, if any of your
friends happen to know of a philanthropist running
around with an auditorium in his pocket, you might send
him this way.

From the Chapel practically everyone went to the
Dining Hall where the Alumni Luncheon was served in
buffet style and then gathered outside on the surrounding
campus to enjoy their lunch. Elsewhere in this issue you
will find pictures of some familiar faces gathered there.

After a lot of persuasion we finally rounded up the

P

a
ie
i”
e

Fe

[19]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

oh ng

 

Class Reunions: 1. Ambulance Unit; 2. Class of 1912; 3. Class of 1917; 4. Class of 1902.
[20]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

men folks and herded them into the old Chapel in
Washington College for the annual Alumni Meeting.
This used to be quite a lengthy affair and very boresome,
but we have cut it down to just one hour and find that by
doing this we get a larger attendance. Minutes of this
meeting are found, with other reports, on another page.

As everyone had spent two full days, the interim be-
tween the meeting and the Final Ball was spent mostly in
taking a much needed rest. There were also a great many
private parties and meetings at this time, of the classes
having reunions.

The Final Ball opened, as in years past, with a beauti-
ful figure, boys in tails, the girls in white dresses with red
shoes, carrying huge bunches of red roses. After the figure
hundreds of couples enjoyed Abe Lyman and his orchestra
until “College Friendships” was played at 6 A. M.

* -* *

| have tried to tell you a little something about the
different features of Finals but have not mentioned the
names of those participating in the festivities.

I have before me the Alumni Register. There are
several hundred names on it and I will promise not to
mention them all.

If you happen to know some method of getting alumni
to register, it would be appreciated if you would pass this
information along to me. I have tried every hook and
crook, even catching them by the nape of the neck and
dragging them in, but for some reason or other it seems
to be against the principles of an alumnus to register.
‘There were, I feel sure, many more alumni who failed to
register than who did so.

On looking over the list I find classes registered from
1879 to 1936. That's a lot of years and we are happy to
have so many represented.

The first name I see on the list is none other than J.
Robert (“Cochi’’) Neal, 15, of Houston, Texas. He, with
his running mate, Dick Fowlkes, also of °15, had their
annual reunion—and what a reunion it was! As I look
further I see the names of Jack Hobbie, °35, from Mont-
gomery, Alabama. Twenty years separate this young
alumnus from Cochi and Dick. Here is Frank Key, °12,
followed by his son, Francis Key, ’35. Luke Williams, ’17,
came all the way from Boston to attend the 20th reunion
of his class. Luke and I happen to be classmates, and along
with twenty-five others, we really put on a celebration.

‘The next name on the list is Clarence Avery, ’14, from
Chattanooga, Tenn. Clarence was here not only to renew
old friendships, but had his son along who will enter the
University next fall. Russell Wine, ’12, another Texan,
from San Antonio, returned for the first time since his
graduation, and was accompanied by his family.

Here is another father and son from Texas, John M.
Corbett, 01, and Duncan Corbett, ’36.

As I go further down this list it appears that the state
of Texas is better represented than any other state outside
of Virginia.

Here is Eddie Bacon, ’33, the first time Eddie has re-
turned since graduatian. The next two names are Paul
Pickens and Marian Sanders, both of the great War Class
of ’17. They were accompanied by their wives. Uncle Dan
Owens, 12, who never misses. Unfortunately Dan left
his hams at home.

Dr. W. T. Ellis, ‘02, from Philadelphia, returned with
Mrs. Ellis for their thirty-fifth reunion. They came in
early and spent a great deal of time renewing old friend-
ships and admiring the many changes that have been made
in the past thirty-five years.

The next name I see is that of John Chatfield, °12, of
Easton, Conn. I might mention here the Class of *12 also
staged a fine reunion. John and Mrs. Chatfield did not
miss a trick. Here is another gentleman from Connecticut
that alumni of twenty years ago will recognize—Billy
Cox, '17. Billy is now a highly respected member of the
Yale faculty.

The names of two gentlemen from New York appear
next, likewise of the Class of °17, Jimmie Lee and Milton
Rogers. Byron Ballard, "12, of Lansing Michigan, was
here of course, as he was responsible for getting so many
members of the Law Class of ‘12 to return for their re-
union.

Appearing next are the names of three distinguished
members of the University Board of ‘Trustees; McChes-
ney Martin, 95, John W. Davis, 92, and Herbert Fitz-
patrick, "92.

Bill Raftery, '16, followed these distinguished gentle-
men. Bill, with several of his cronies, spent a good deal
of his time reminiscing at Alumni Headquarters.

George Caperton, 06, made it a point to be here on
business at that time.

Johnny Blocker, ’20, came all the way from St. Peters-
burg, Florida, and, as usual, here is our good friend Bill
Allen, ’02, from Charlotte, N. C. Bill has many ties bind-
ing him to Lexington and returns at every opportunity.

I was glad to shake the hand of “‘Zube” Shields, 05,
who is now living in Farmville. Who doesn’t remember
Zube as Mayor of Lexington in °13 and ‘14?

Eid Caffrey, ‘09, follows our friend Zube on the
register and as usual was busy greeting his many friends.
We can always count on Ed to be present at Homecoming
and Finals.

Tommy Glasgow, °12, follows the Judge. Tommy has
an advantage over most of the alumni as he kills two
birds with one stone, visiting at home and celebrating
University gatherings.

I would defy anybody to decipher the next name, and

[21]

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

I couldn’t do it had I not had considerable correspondence
with him in the past few years. It is none other than our
good friend Brian Bell, ’11. It had been a long time since
Brian was on the campus and he had to be guided, but it
did not take him long to get into the swing of things.
Many of his friends will be glad to know that he received
an honorary degree at commencement. This was a merited
honor. Brian is tops in his chosen field of Journalism, now
located in San Francisco as head of the Associated Press
for the Pacific coast. Elsewhere in this issue you will find
a picture of Brian’s son, Brian, Jr., interviewing Joe FE.
Brown. We are looking for that youngster to enter Wash-
ington and Lee before long.

Pin Webster, 12, signs his name on the dotted line
and registers from Schenectady, N. Y. Pin’s very attrac-
tive wife accompanied him and it is needless for me to say
they had a glorious time.

Above I mentioned the fact that classes from ’79 to
’36 were represented in this list of alumni. The represen-
tative from the Class of ’79 was none other than Henry
C. Getzendanner of Charles Town, West Virginia. I en-
joyed talking to Mr. Getzendanner, especially about the
crews. He seemed to think the boys on the crews in re-
cent years were “‘sissies,’ as the race is down the stream.
If all crew members had the physique of Mr. Getzendan-
ner I could realize why the courses were up-stream. He
still is a powerfully built man and I imagine had the race
been down stream it would have been over before it was
started.

Here are three more West Virginians who return of-
ten and we are always glad to see them; Brown Truslow,
‘11, Norman Fitzhugh, 98, and Joe Silverstein, ’22, from
Charleston.

L,. J. Boxley, 09, and Shirley Riley, °16, were over
from Roanoke—two more loyal alumni who never miss.
I noticed another Board member who was good enough
to come by and register, Morrison Hutcheson, ‘02, of
Richmond. His name is followed by that of our good
friend Dewey Cooke, ’02, of Savannah, Georgia.

Dr. Wiley Forbus, 16, appears next. Wiley is now on
the medical staff of Duke University. He was accom-
panied by his family—a charming wife and three very
attractive daughters.

Happy Vickers, °33, was here and—to Happy’s many
friends—he is now Prosecuting Attorney of Fayette
County, West Virginia. Here are two more fifteeners
registered together, Ki Williams from Waynesboro, and
the Honorable Joe Millner of Gulfport, Miss. I gave him
the title because Joe is at present the Mayor of his home
town and has been for several years. Reports from others
say he is doing a swell job of Mayoring. He is also in the
school business, being owner of the Gulfport Military
Academy.

Crockett Hughes, °32, from Bluefield was here and
had only a few arguments with his former professor, Mr.
Charles McDowell.

As I look further it seems that Charleston, West Vir-
ginia stood out as the town with more alumni returning
than any other. Here are Todd and Ruge DeVan, ’34 and
’35, respectively ; Bill Homberg, ’34; John Thomas, ’36;
Sam Silverstein, ‘17; all from the capital of that great
mountain state.

Larry Wilson, ‘10, of Greensboro, North Carolina,
was here with his wife to see his son, Phil, graduate,
with honors. Larry also has another boy in_ school.
There are many reasons why we like to have sons of
alumni as members of our student-body. One good rea-
son is that we have the pleasure of seeing their "Old
Man” more often. They are coming back to see if Junior
is walking the straight and narrow and keeping away
from all the places “Papa” frequented.

Al Perry, ’32, now practicing attorney of Tazewell,
Virginia, was here as was his father, the Honorable
George C. Peery, 97, now Governor of Virginia, and
member of the University Board of Trustees.

Ran Cabell, ’20, from Covington, came, as he always
does. Ran can be counted present whenever there is a
Washington and Lee gathering.

Herbert Peters and Homer Jones, ’17, represented
Bristol, Virginia.

Had I not been .present when the next gentleman
whose name appears was registering, neither I nor any
of the natives could have made it out. And why? Be-
cause it is Houston Patterson, "19, gone native Chinese.
Houston is another alumnus who returned to receive his
honorary degree, as did his father many years ago.

Roscoe Stevenson, ‘08, signs his name in very bold
type and states that in a few years his young son who
accompanied him, will do likweise.

Ned Hix, ’17, from Niagara Falls, New York, comes
next followed by Sam Williams, ’14. Sam is now a very
successful attorney in Lynchburg.

Two older alumni happened to register together—
Ezra Ripy, 96, of Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, and Charlie
McNulty, ‘02, of Roanoke, Virginia. I find another
good alumnus registered from “The Magic City,” R. M.
Whittle, ’24. I understand Ran is as successful in his
law practice as he was as President of the student body
during his college days, and that is saying a lot.

Here are R. C. Wood, ’21, Jimmie Caskie, ’06, Bob
Ramsey, 12, Mike Bristoe, ’15, Morris Hester, ’20,
and Bill Schuhle, °35, all from Lyenhburg. As usual,
Lynchburg sent a good delegation.

I could go on and give you a great many more of
our very interested alumni whose names appear on this

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

register, but space forbids. Whether I have mentioned
their names or not we were so glad to have them and
hope their visits will be frequent in the future.

I have tried to give you in a brief way what took
place at Finals, a few of the men who were here, and |
do not want to overlook the several fine class reunions
that were held; the classes of ’02, °12, and °17 especially.
These reunions were well attended and the Alumni Of-
fice is looking forward to the time when more classes
will get together at this time of the year. We are always
willing to cooperate and believe this is the best way of
renewing old friendships and keeping the interest of the
alumni alive.

In trying to organize these reunions, which I admit
have been neglected in the past, the average alumnus
appears doubtful about returning as he feels when he
returns things will not be the same and he wants to re-
member them as they were, but on returning finds that
his interest is renewed and that the effort has been more
than worth while.

On the first page of this magazine you will note this is
Vol. XII, No. 5, which means it is the last issue of the
year, the last time you will have to read this tripe until
October, when a new volume begins. As stated in my
first effort, I had a lot of misgivings relative to this
column, but as it has turned out I have had a lot of fun.
| admit the style is rotten, but the subject matter 1s hard
to beat. I trust I have not hurt anyone’s feelings and
hope I have given you some news of your friends which
was of interest. I started out by trying not to copy any
columnist or commentator, but I cannot refrain from
saying, “So long, and good luck, until October.”

bya

 

Brian Bell, Jr., Interviewer

SEVERAL HUNDRED newspapers recently printed a se-
ries of three interviews with motion picture stars in
Hollywood, written by a ten-year old boy who hopes to
enter Washington and Lee with the class of ‘48.

Brian Bell, Jr., son of Brian Bell, western division
news editor of the Associated Press, interviewed Ginger
Rogers, Joe E. Brown, and Harold Lloyd for the great
press association and newspapers in every section of the
United States printed his stories.

Ginger Rogers, he wrote, is even more beautiful off
the screen than on. He saw a “‘set”” being prepared for a
night club scene in the picture she was making but he

|

 

told his readers he did not know if it looked like a night
club as he had never been in one.

The youthful appearance of the veteran Lloyd amazed
the youngster and he could hardly believe that the come-
dian has appeared in more than 500 motion pictures.

The highlight of his visit to Joe E. Brown came im-
mediately after his arrival. The big mouthed comedian
was having breakfast and invited Brian to join him. The
budding young journalist accepted without hesitation al-
though he had just had one breakfast.

srian’s father attended Washington and Lee more
than 25 years ago.

 

William Taylor Thom, Jr., 1913

In 1907 WittiAmM Tay_Lor THOM was a page boy in
the United States Senate trying not to doze through
floods of oratory. In 1937 the trustees of Princeton Uni-
versity appointed him Blair professor of geology, one of
the university’s oldest endowed chairs. He knows nearly
everything worth knowing about coal and oil geology—
an opinion shared by others, apparently, for he was senior
geologist and later the chief of the fuel section of the
U. S. Geological Survey before going to Princeton in
1927. Since then he has received signal and academic
honors—he headed the National Research Council com-
mittee on petroleum geology; is chairman of an impor-
tant American Geophysical Union Committee; delivered
a paper at the Harvard Tercentenary. Dr. Thom is a
B. S. of the class of 13, and was given an honorary D. Sc.
from the University last June. While at Washington and
Lee he became a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fra-
ternity. Dr. Thom’s father was an A. B. of Washington
and Lee of the class of ‘69, and an M. A. of the class
of °70.

3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

New York

NEW YorK ALUMNI of Washington and Lee gathered
at one of Park Avenue’s smartest night spots for their
annual dinner-dance April 2.

Approximately 100 persons, including wives and
guests of alumni, donned white ties and black ties for
for the affair, held at the Trianon Room of the Ambassa-
dor Hotel.

It was “Washington and Lee night” from seven until
two o'clock, when Dick Gasparre’s orchestra struck up its
final notes of the night after numerous offerings of the
“Swing,” and after generally catering to whatever selec-
tions the alumni wanted.

Earl Valentine, of Lexington, who makes attending
New York Alumni dinner-dances his hobby, was back
again this year.

Those who came some distance for the affair also in-
cluded Mr. and Mrs. Reed Johnson, of Wilmington, Del.

Those present included:

Ethan Allen, Joseph Broadus, Mr. and Mrs. Leigh
Bullock, Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Carter, Mr. and Mrs.
H. R. Dobbs, Irving Dobbs,
Mr. and Mrs. T.
Arthur Hauck, Mr. and Mrs.
Reed Johnson, Mr. and Mrs.
I). McCorkle, J. M. McNeil,
Harry Newberry, V. Pearson,
K. Robinson, Claude Sanford,
R. L.. Stevenson, Earl Valen-
tine, Mr. and Mrs. S. M. Ward,
5. A. Wutzburger, H. Wein-
stein, Henry H. Lahrman, Mr.
and Mrs. W.’T. Glenn, Mr. and
Mrs. James A. Lee, Waldo
H. Comins, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Hawthorne, W. Donaldson,
James A. Castner, R. C. Wein-
stein, W. C. McKnight, Mr.
and Mrs. M. B. Rogers, Mr.
and Mrs. G. C. Walters, Dr.
H. F. Day, Mr. and Mrs. E.
W. Poindexter, Mr. and Mrs.
EK. W. Lee, H. Walton, James
T. Pate, Martin Spencer, G.
R. Glynn, Lee F. Washington,
and Graham Morrison.

(GG. Gibson,

 

>

 

° °
Miami

On Saturday morning, April 3, the Washington and
Lee alumni in attendance at the Florida State Bar Con-
vention which was held at the Miami-Biltmore Hotel in
Coral Gables, met for breakfast. The arrangements for
the breakfast were in charge of Jean Ellis, and F. M.
Hudson presided. There was no program, the purpose of
the meeting being simply to get together and renew Wash-
ington and Lee friendships. All present regretted the fact
that Dr. Gaines and Cy Young could not be present as
they were on a similar occasion at the convention held at

West Palm Beach several years ago.

It is interesting to note that both Lewis ‘Twyman,
president of Florida State Bar Association for the past
year, and Martin Caraballo, the present-elect, are Wash-
ington and Lee alumni and were present at the breakfast.

The complete list of those present is as follows:

F. M. Hudson, 1892, Miami; Scott M. Loftin, 1899,
Jacksonville ; Martin Caraballo, 1907, Tampa; C. I. Carey,
1909, St. Petersburg ; Russell L. Frink, 1910, Jacksonville ;
W. F. Blanton, 1911, Miami: Fred J. Hampton, 1911,
Tampa; Lewis Twyman, 1913,
Miami; Wallace Ruff, 1914,
Miami; Horner C. Fisher,
1916, West Palm Beach; In-
man Crutchfield, 1917, Jack-
sonville; J. W. Dupree, 1921,
Tampa; Thomas Jean Ellis,
1923, Miami; George T. Clark,
1925, Miami; Luther L,. Cop-
ley, 1925, Miami; Charles: J.
Holland, 1928, Miami; Clyde
H. Wilson, 1929, Sarasota.

 

About Our Cover

The aerial photo reproduc-
ed on the cover of this issue of
The Alumni Magazine show-
ing the campus and surround-
ing scenery, is a recent photo-
graph, having been taken about
the first of July by Andre
Studio of Lexington.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Minutes of the General Alumni Meeting

June II, 1937

ae annual general meeting of Washington and Lee
a Alumni, Inc., was held in Washington Chapel of the
University on June 11, 1937. The meeting was called to
order at approximately two o’clock by Ki Williams, in
the absence of the President, Clarence L. Sager, and
Vice-President, Harry St. G. ‘T. Carmichael.

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, President of the University,
delivered a brief address of welcome to the alumni, em-
phasizing the pleasure and inspiration it is to the members
of the University family who stay here to receive the
members who circulate in other parts of the world.

On motion, the reading of the minutes of the previous
meeting was dispensed with.

Dick Fowlkes read for Stuart Moore, Chairman of
the Resolutions Committee the following resolution,
which on motion, was adopted:

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association
would at this time, nearly twenty years after the
close of the World War, recall the splendid record
of the Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit,
which saw service throughout the war, suffered
a number of casualties and was cited for bravery
as a unit. Individual members also received cita-
tions.

Feeling that proper recognition has not been
given to this important and interesting service
rendered by Washington and Lee men and be-
lieving that the preservation of the citations and
mementos would be of great value to the school
before they have been lost and scattered with the
passing of the years, now therefore,

Be it resolved that the University be requested
to provide a suitable memorial room for the storing
and exhibiting of items connected with the am-
bulance unit and that work be started at once as-
sembling them.

Charles Glasgow, as a member of the Athletic Council,
reported on the athletic situation at Washington and Lee,
stressing the outstanding records made by the teams
over the past four year period, and outlining the position
he felt the University and alumni should take on the
problem of subsidization.

Matthew Paxton reported as Treasurer, and his re-
port was accepted as written.

Mr. Sager’s report as President was read by the
presiding officer, Ki Williams.

The report of the Nominating Committee was made
by Mr. Webster, who suggested the following men to
take the places of the three Alumni Board members whose
terms expire this year; Joseph T. Lykes, Stuart Moore
and John Bell Towill.

Tom Glasgow moved that these men be elected,
but before the motion was put to the vote, the presiding
officer asked for further nominations from the floor. No
further names being presented, Judge Caffrey moved
that nominations be closed, and Mr. Glasgow’s motion
was passed, which automatically elected the three men
named.

The Secretary announced that the Alumni Board of
Trustees had reelected Clarence L. Sager president for
another year.

The Thomas Nelson Page Award, given annually to
an alumnus who in the opinion of a joint committee from
the alumni and administration has been outstanding in
his services to the University, was awarded to Edmund
Douglas Campbell.

Tom Glasgow made the motion that a loving cup
be presented each year to the retiring president of the
Alumni Association as a small tangible evidence of the
appreciation of the alumni. Matthew Paxton suggested
that the motion be amended so that the form of the token
each year be left to the judgment of the Alumni Board.
In its amended form the motion was presented and
passed.

There being no further business, on motion the meet-
ing adjourned.

H. K. (Cy) Youne, Secretary

President's Report

To the Alumni of Washington and Lee:

In marking the end of another year of alumni activity,
it seems appropriate that a brief statement be made by the
writer, although what is said here is not in any sense
meant to be a report. Our intention is rather to touch
upon one of our most important, if indeed, not our one
essential, activity if we are to be effective as an alumni
organization. I refer to the Alumni Fund.

Old as is the Alumni Fund as an institution in many
American colleges, it is something new with us at Wash-

[25]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ington and Lee. Its establishment, maintenance and
growth from year to year have not come easily, and its
continued growth will not be easy in the future. Out of
the whole body of our alumni, the number thus far par-
ticipating in the Alumni Fund may not seem either en-
couraging or re-assuring. But when we consider that the
Alumni Fund was born in the midst of a national finan-
cial depression and that the same depression has to a
great extent given it sustenance and growth, we cannot
long entertain thoughts of discouragement or uncertainty.
On the contrary, we can feel only a definite assurance of
the firm establishment of the Alumni Fund as a perma-
nent part of the contribution of Washington and Lee
Alumni to the support of the University.

How important it is for Washington and Lee that this
should be so! Large gifts from individuals to the Uni-
versity will ever be welcome, and small contributions from
those who want to help are essential. But what every col-
lege in our country needs in order for it to advance along
planned and systematic lines is the regular, steady and
constant financial help of its alumni acting in one great
concerted effort each year. The Alumni Fund affords the
opportunity for such an effort on the part of our alumni.

No contribution from any one alumnus may be large
enough to support or endow any one activity, but by our
annual united effort, we together can add very substan-
tially to the funds of the University, or relieve the Uni-
versity of the necessity of spending its own funds in the
support of certain essential University activities.

Nor is financial support all that we can give. In the
very act of giving financially, each one of us helps main-
tain, not only with the University, but with his fellow
alumni, that close relationship, friendliesss and concern
which ought at all times to exist among true sons of a com-
mon educational parent on the one hand, and on the other,
between that parent and her sons as a group. Indeed,
there are among us those who possibly cannot express their
love for Washington and Lee in financial terms, but must
use some other medium of helpfulness. It is true the name
“Alumni Fund” carries financial implications, but the
class agent plan through which the Fund is supported,
affords opportunities for interchanges of expression
among alumni which make for those close relationships
here referred to. It is for this reason that each class agent
tries to get letters from his classmates each year, even
though they cannot make a financial contribution.

We have gotten a very favorable start in building up
our Alumni Fund. But we need badly to improve our
methods of carrying out its operations, both by extending
its scope and by intensifying our efforts in its behalf. The
number of alumni participating should be multiplied ten-
fold, and the varieties of ways of participating should be
increased. Not only should we seek direct annual contri-
butions, but we should ask for such support as comes from

gifts by wills, insurance policy benefactions, local alumni
group contributions and special class anniversary gifts.
Detailed proposals for accomplishing -these ends have
been made to the Alumni Board of Directors and need not
be discussed here.

Undoubtedly, we are marching forward in the work of
the Alumni Fund. Our first duty is to continue to keep our
faces forward and not to grow weary or discouraged in
our efforts. Our alumni as a whole want the Alumni Fund,
and they want it to grow. There should be no mistake
about that. We need to continue to let them know what it
is all about, and to emphasize its importance to the future
of Washington and Lee.

The writer wishes to conclude this statement by ex-
pressing his satisfaction and pleasure in serving as Presi-
dent of our alumni organization during the past year. He
would like to make this the occasion of thanking not only
Dr. Gaines and Cy Young for their cooperation and help-
fulness at all times, but all alumni, and particularly the
class agents, who have so generously given of their time
and money in helping our work go forward.

Respectfully submitted,
CLARENCE EF. SAGER

Treasurer's Report

RECEIPTS

Bank Balance dupe 4) (1906 2a cack lod $2529.85
Alumni Contributions from Class Fund................ 4944.64
Magazine Subscriptions. ...........0..0....0cccccccsseeeeeeceee 789.50
Magazine AG veruming):.):.a0 isi icbice Loe. 168.14
Refund from Traveling Expenses........................ 6.00
RROD PECED CAO POON ooo. 855s vthaacansscaveves 5.00
Refund from Public Utilities.............0000000000u.. 5.50
Miscellaneous Contributions. ...........0...0000000..00000.. 5.00

DISBURSEMENTS pons 9 09
RIED Sap AIOG RAL UNGEI4 pote dv pa cin so oserdv toothy avsacdieds $ 635.90
SPM 5 ia ee a dds ok Sa siccag sh dang &s hicuoetoobons 198.39
FO RARENAS DUR ERONO a ALL, classes cy dinsaiassg tdeiineaes 90.28
PROM RIOE Eis isl sretudeaiess4i-b.detaeshss rhinibiastaiodecct 1288.60
RPDS ADAM ited bis ia oitecie:..cedoiniabess atcbiehs 110.00
RMN cB cub eR ae a's esich.» Devout eoceathebbion, 1144.00
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers.......................... 400.60
PRIN, SEE eh. 3 adsauh. sc cukeig vexs cdipbponsbabaasih 509.10
EOD BY OEM NON 5035 EE A. 5. 0isccdbae ace Wes Ringe zal 808.98
FRIAR MANNER UMIROONS. 6, $54 62.0 sca sc shea- tended nope dn ade 364.54
Tie ORR od task ©, glass cack i EM cp 142.39
CURE DCPRRINI i252 3,5. ach ssceurcetbs boaie dosnt pone: 5.00

RECAPITULATION $9697 78
RRMMOORG IRR MM Sood 5 sno cs os ahlodebuetoans ees tains cote $8453.63
RRIMRT IPI cory eh cose t,t ee 5697.78
MOOS 2. ar oa <0. Cbe CER, bic aise $2755.85

[26]

ee eg

J —_—

1910 L........
AEE Beas
IS Le sss

SESE...

1I9TS A Z..:...

ISTE A. 128

2's Se, Saree
Se tania.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Fund-July 8, 1937

CLASS CONTRIBUTORS AMT. CLASS AGENT
1869-89... Biwi diy. S SOR seheostuweal Alumni Office
Bi Stisssi, SOON oi fitais Douglas $. Anderson
POR SCI Sas bir See RR! oye Alumni Office
RO haha. i POE sien. AGS John J. Davis
1B9Si58..00554 1 Bix. cccit i OID. tits ne RI J. T. Morgan
Bcwite: NGO isco RS James N. Veech
ae BO Ke: Lv Ciabbbeaad Lyne S$. Smith
M3, BG. c hts H. H. Larimore
BPiatiws.. WEI teas. sh ate F. P. Hamilton
Se tae het Fad Ad ie; cas Norman §S. Fitzhugh
Pesan. i 79.Q0........ H. St. G. T. Carmichael
aera: eis, ara J. R. Tucker
Bs hihi hese 20.00........ Matthew Page Andrews
Moai. Me nf Ndeicks W. Dewey Cooke
a Mirdhelad SRP NI bs 5s» ebcelice a ies Alumni Office
MO ea: TOA uch ae EK. W. Poindexter
OwAii dhe: DOI hE. D. A. Bradham
I GA SGD iii. ie Claude P. Light
Baas SSS id: W. R. J. Dunn
MR iia GR ise th aaa tes deste Philip P. Page
eis ak SRG sis. ouks Dozier DeVane

AS iis ah BB h 5 co secbas is Dr. J. W. Claudy
SiKiss Rass kis. Judge FE. C. Caffrey
Ph ia. LBL SO wis). ck gan H. A. Derr

Pk aeten SUG iii ib ah O. W. Richardson
Mak: EAL. L,. L.. Humphreys
Fas sdae PEs osetia J. Nevin Kilmer
Detail as; L4G so .. oscar William A. Hyman
orc tate Mp ecik tibyeeh ees Bryon L. Ballard
Peed Gate Si. ces eres Ben F. Fiery
Oran: 134 OO... Howard Lee Robinson
1A saan SOO... tied) Clarence L. Sager

De PES U0. 2 tikes, bikin Sam Williams
Be cats 8 ED id on dene Ki Williams

Ses. SARL 9’ aaa ct en ea Leon W. Harris
eee as ABAD): oi oe Russell S. Rhodes

Oye Si 14.0002 Ghee H. J. Kiser
Masel S400. ick: Robert B. McDougle
a SEM scsvis saceas ete H. V. Campbell
scan cidss GE): sich cases idan ,. D. Campbell

eer Ck ae O. M. Stumpf

BA Hae a 74050. 63.05. Se Sam Baker

iets 2 5.00 eats: ea Frank Stipes

SRC 119. 50425... ck. Be R. M. Cabell

es. SER ein L,. Berkeley Cox

Fil eadadeiesk: RTs rscaal, py John L,. Patterson

Acai toie: SRD oo soceh ede oh cs pact John Bell

Pte as 352): Weare, TATOMI: sonsunniee Louis A. Dunlap
Te hn, k-.5 Seana BAO: i. ue T. J. Ellis
ima ee se aes Emmett W. Poindexter

Bie 5.:.¥: BEOG.. i chk C. Hagan Minnich

1924 Bysi.ck. beUi>, as; 17.0». hia Randolph G. Whittle
129 Asi. Nez: 7a. 2. NSO ii ttle W. H. Cluverius
1925 L........ Bietksts SGORKs. gia ike John C. Morrison
1926A......... Diebe bhi ye PASB is Paul M. Schuchart
$220 355.3... ep aes DOAK. iki. Cabs Basil Watkins
W927 fe::,..5i: ME sk, PAS MY K. A. Durham
19BF Ty x)... Bek Bai PED spike Gibson Witherspoon
1928 A........ PF svech. KK SGD eis i508 George F. Atwood
1928 Iya. back NO i seri Rhydon C. Latham
1929 A........ Pini LOZ Foi eA ae Allen Morgan
Oa Li Detsieh ix PAO ais John Bell Towill
RI A Ses, Bhs spphtlri Pisa ive Herbert G. Jahncke
1930 L,-..:..: Giscss eis ots Morton E. Padgett, Jr.
IAT Ans... BOs GR .. ictnd: in Ben M. Ayars
DSP Biss Ne. Bi ahah I i. Ab Siege st? and Horace Gooch
B9SZ Ao u553 ST in tbiaian CODD ich: ad. Kemper Jennings
1932'L...:...4 teh Oi ehacitttsSovaees James D. Sparks
1I9S3'A...:.4, LQ euitsaii: DEI ahr inc, Luther Violett, Jr.
IDES dv Pci abeieds SOs sisi Jerome Framptom, Jr.
1934 Aaj cicts: Sessile. SF anes chat. LAs rete Amos Bolen
1934 L........ Sst epiite, BOD ies tsi ai Thomas D. Anderson
BGSD A diciscx Med cahvie GD Misiesicicis William Schuhle, Jr.
1955 By ios ns: Boia dg DSO AAG Thomas E,. Sparks
IIA tei: Piskitgked 14 BOE iis: Fletcher Maynard
TORS Tic heed Salad SAE tana Charles B. Cross, Jr.
LOBE siitinss.-d bik ivan tus LODO ss lec dtvins dys seh: sHetitis cmcneebinghi
‘Poulet: 2008 as24 $4475.39

Secretary's Report

I WANT TO GIVE you as briefly as I can in fairness to
the activities and responsibilities of the alumni office, a
report on what your Association has been doing since
our meeting last June. | am sure almost everything I have
to say in this report showing the greatly increased activity
and interest is due to the work of our class agent plan.

As is customary for me after Finals each year, I
immediately start my work for the University in con-
tacting students and alumni in many states. Primarily
the work is checking on prospective students, but I al-
ways combine it with Association work in the larger
centers where we have a great many alumni. During this
period when I am out of Lexington, the alumni office is
kept busy editing the hundreds of letters that have been
written to class agents. A very important and tedious
job that is done during the summer months is adding our
last year’s class to the alumni files. This may seem a
minor matter, but when you consider that we have four
files for each man and there are usually 300 names to add,
you may know it is quite a big job. I would say it is
about a month’s work for one person.

The early fall as usual was a very busy time, getting
ready for Homecoming and with the many activities
that come with the opening of school. In preparation

[27]

The cAlumni M lagazine, Washington and Lee University

 

for Homecoming a special bulletin was sent to all alumni,
giving the program and an invitation to return for the
occasion. The result was entirely satisfactory. A con-
servative estimate of alumni returning at this time would
be 1000. Following our custom of several years, the
Alumni Association offered prizes to the fraternities
for the best decorated house and for the largest number
of alumni returning. | might say this feature of Home-
coming is growing each year. Practically every fraternity
on the campus is cooperating with the Association in
making this one of the biggest events of the year.

For the past several years our local associations have
been increasingly active, especially in the work of get-
ting prospective students interested in the University.
Many associations have been visited by your secretary
and members of the administration and faculty. At the
local meetings I have observed a much larger attendance
than in former years. I think two reasons account for
this: first, the yearly contact of the class agent with his
classmates has revived the interest of a great many alum-
ni; and second, the added attraction of movies of the
campus that we have been able to show this year. I was
directed last spring by the Alumni Board to purchase a
complete movie outfit, and from time to time have taken
pictures of special events on the campus and of local
characters that have proven of great interest wherever
they have been exhibited. The board feels further that
not only will these pictures be of great interest to the
alumni, but they can be preserved as a record for the
generations to come.

I am sure many of you have observed from the
Treasurer’s report that the office supply account this year
is unusually large. This is explained by the fact that a
lot of expensive equipment, such as stencils and mimeo-
graph machines and typewriters, had to be replaced. I
believe we are now equipped in such a way that our work
can be done better and more efficiently.

In my last year’s report, I stated the class agent plan
was less productive than had been expected. I am very
happy to say, in ending this report, I do not have to re-
peat this statement. As this is written, we have exceeded
by several hundred dollars the total amount of money
received last year, and I am still hopeful that late re-
ports from class agents will make it our best year since
its inception five years ago. I was a little dubious of this
plan at first, but now I am fully convinced, as is every
member of your board, the plan is sound, simple and
effective.

I want to take this occasion to say that our class
agents have done an exceptionally fine job, and the Asso-
ciation is deeply grateful for the many hours work they
have done in our behalf and that of the University.

H. K. (Cy) Youne, Secretary

Carter Returns to Campus

A recent visitor to the campus was Richard P. Carter,
‘29, instructor in Journalism at the University, who has
been on a leave of absence doing special work with the
Associated Press in New York City. Mr. Carter will re-
turn to his duties here in September, and alumni will be
glad to learn that he will edit the next issue of The Alumni
Magazine. He will also assume his former position as di-
rector of the University News Bureau.

Marriages

Rev. LEON R. Ropison, Jr., A. B., 30, was married
to Miss Rachel Timberlake of Jacksboro, Texas. Mr.
Robison is assistant pastor of the First Baptist Church,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

THoMAS THORN Moorg, A. B., ’26, was married June
26 to Miss Katherine Genevieve Williams, in Richmond,
Virginia.

JAMES STERRETT Woops, A. B.,’35, was married June

16 to Miss Jane. Smith Parker, at Reidsville, Pennsyl-
vania.

CHANDLER Wysor Gorpon, B. S., ’31, was married
to Miss Dorthy Alice Thomas, May 29, in Detroit,
Michigan.

GrorGE R. Griynn, B. S., ’35, was married to Miss
Florence June Hynes, June 19, in New York City.

FREDERICK MicayAu Davis, A. B., 14, LL. B., 17,
was married June 23, to Miss Lucy Wortley Crowe, in
Lynchburg, Virginia.

EMERSON ‘THOMPSON SANDERS, A. B., ’27, was mar-
ried to Miss Edith Elizabeth Holt, June 19, in Burlington,
North Carolina.

Robert MAyNArD Hott, A. B., ’27, was married to
Miss Jane Love, May 7, in Memphis, Tennessee.

ALBERT Scorr JONES, ’33, was married to Miss Stella
Reynolds in May.

LEE Briscog ALLEN, Jr., A. B., ’36, of Port Gibson,
Mississippi, and Miss Margaret Carpenter were married

on April 17, 1937.

JoHN ALEXANDER CULLEY was married July 3, 1937,
to Miss Margaret Dale Rogers, at Grand Detour, Illinois.
They will make their home at 703 East Third St., Dixon,
[linois.

Dr. Joun W. DEVINE, JR., was married June 13, 1937,
to Miss Clara Cunningham Roberson, at Durham, N. C.

[28]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1893

Lon H. KELLy is a member of the firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight, lawyers, of Charleston, W. Va.

R. E. WapbE writes a long and interesting letter from
134 Spencer avenue, Sansalito, Calif.

FrEDERICK A. Coucn lives in “the soft coal fields’’
of West Virginia, at Shady Spring. He and his daugh-
ter are both great football fans and frequently attend
the games here.

A. K. Bow ks is with the Consolidated Coal Com-
pany, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York.

1898

RAN SHIELDs, medical missionary to China, who has
been in this country and has made frequent visits to Lex-
ington, has returned to China.

S. GARLAND HAMNER is practicing law in Lynch-
burg, Va., with offices in the Peoples Bank building.

1899

W. C. Watson lives at 45 Smith street, West Haven,
Connecticut.

BRADEN VANDEVENTER is a member of the firm of
Vandeventer & Black, Citizens Bank building, Norfolk,
Va. He is vice-chairman of the Conservation and Devel-
opment Commission of Virginia and president of the

Norfolk and Portsmouth Bar Association. 2

1902

A. L. BurRGEE is superintendent of pub-
lic schools, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Henry B. GRAYBILL is a professor in
Greenbrier College for Women, Lewisburg,
West Virginia.

Harry N. HusE is assistant general
freight agent, Norfolk and Western Rail- ,
way Co., Roanoke, Virginia.

SAM PRICE is a member of the law firm
of Price & McWhorter, Lewisburg, W. Va.

 

1903

Joun M. Corserr says he is “just a country lawyer
who discovered his limitations and confined his activities
accordingly.” For many years he has devoted himself
almost entirely to the practice of legal matters growing
out of the development of sulphur and oil. For nearly
twenty years he has been the Texas counsel for Texas
Gulf Sulphur Company. Mr. Corbett married Miss
Nancy Wilson Duncan and they have three children,
Duncan, who spent two years at Washington and Lee
and graduated in geology last year at the University of
Texas ; Kitty King, a sophomore at Sweet Briar College,
and Gibbons, who is a student at Woodberry Forest
School.

1907

Stuart SANDERS has had two sons who graduated
from Washington and Lee. He is a Presbyterian minis-
ter in Memphis, Tenn.

WituiaM R, J. DuNN is in the construction business
in Birmingham, Alabama. He has a son at W. and L.

1908

Horacké W. Puituires lives in Hardeeville, S. C.

AprAM (ABE) STAPLES is attorney general of the
State of Virginia.

MonvacuE I. Lirrirr is with the Public Works Ad-

ministration as engineer, 1532 Quarrier street, Charles-
ton, W. Va. .

DoziER DEVANE is with the Federal
Power Commission, Washington, D. C.

DoNnALD P. Boyer lives at 2804 Dupont
Circle, Richmond, Virginia.

1909
SorsBy JEMISON is assistant vice-presi-
dent of the Young and Vann Supply Com-
pany, specializing in supplies and equip-
pai? ment for mills, mines, furnaces, textile con-
_ tractors, and industrial operations in Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1911

F. P. Gutureié is with R. C. A. Communications,
Inc., a Radio Corporation of America subsidiary. His
address is 1112 Connecticut avenue, N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C. He has a son who is in the freshman class at
Washington and Lee this year.

Joun F. Brown is judge of the twentieth judicial
circuit, embracing Randolph and Upshur counties. He
lives at Elkins, W. Va.

E. E. Brown is general agent for the Penn Mutual
Life Insurance Company, with offices in the Hamilton
National Bank building, Chattanooga, Tenn. He has a
wife and “seven little Browns.” He recently visited the
campus.

1912
CLEMENTS M. McMUuLLEN is a Major in the Air
Corps at Langley Field, Va.

Witt1AM MILLER is a Presbyterian missionary in
Teheran, Persia.

Byron BALLARD is a member of the law firm of
Shields, Silsbee, Ballard and Jennings, with offices in
the Olds Tower building, Lansing, Mich.

1913

R. E. Royatt is senior highway engineer, in charge
of the editorial section of the bureau. His address is
Route No. 1, Ballston, Va.

ApDRIAN WILLIAMSON is a member of the law firm
of Williamson & Williamson, Monticello, Ark. He is
married and has three children, Ardian, Jr., Ann, and
Margaret. He and his family were recent visitors to
Lexington.

Fred McWanks is secretary of the recently formed
Society of Virginians, Lynchburg, Va.

1915

Eviis M. (M1k&) Bristow makes investigations and
adjustments for insurance companies at 201 Krise build-
ing, Lynchburg, Va.

LEWIS TyREE is spending the summer at his home,
“Mulberry Hill,’ Lexington, Virginia.

1916

PauL Scortr’s address is 465 East Fifty-Seventh
street, New York, N. Y.

VIvIAN PAGE served as a member of the Senate of
Virginia following previous service in the House of Del-

egates for eight sessions. While in the House of Dele-
gates he was chairman of the Courts of Justice Com-
mittee, and upon being seated in the Senate, due to the
fact that he had had previous service in the House of
Delegates, was given a senior position on all committees,
to which he was elected over all new members. He has a
son in his second year at Washington and Lee.

1917

WituiAmM B. Yancey, Major, U. S. A., will be in
charge of the R. O. T. C. at the University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisc., for four years from September 1, 1936.
He married Miss Elizabeth Faw of Staunton, Va., and
they have four children—a girl seventeen, another girl
fourteen, and twins—a boy and a girl twelve.

CLARENCE W. CarTER is commonwealth’s attorney
of Fauquier county, with office at Warrenton, Va. He
was married in 1933, and they have a baby boy about
two years old.

R. C. Coe is practicing law in Baltimore, Md., with
offices in the American building.

GEORGE DANIELSON is chief naturalization examiner,
U. S$. Department of Labor, St. Paul, Minn. He is mar-
ried and has a daughter born September 27, 1933.

Homer A. JONEs is vice-president and cashier of the
Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol, Tenn.

Joun R. Branp is practicing law in Hobbs, N. M.
He has three daughters, the youngest of whom is four-
teen years old.

1919

Tom GiLttiaAmM married Mary Truett, of Dallas, in
1924. ‘Two girls, Truett, eight, and Jessica, five. Tom is
cashier of the Lynchburg Bank and Trust Co., also pres-
ident of the board of trustees of the Virginia Baptist
hospital.

Ray Tit is in the lobster and fish business at
Marblehead, Mass. Is married and has four healthy
youngsters.

1920
H. R. Cris lives in Roswell, N. M.

SAM QO. SULLIVAN is a member of the firm of Mc-
Dougald-Bleckley Company, funeral directors, in Ander-
son, S. C. He married Miss Molly Horton and they have
two children, a daughter, Lila May, who is a freshman
at Converse College, and Sam, Jr., who is ten years of
age and in grammar school. 3

L. Preston (Pat) Corttns is practicing law with
offices in the Bank of Marion building, Marion, Va.

[30]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Cart K. Gitcurist is with the Viking Distributing
Company, Charleston, W. Va. He says that Eck Hans-
barger is in the State Tax Commissioner’s office in
Charleston.

PINKNEY Grissom is practicing law in Dallas, Texas,
with offices in the Republic Bank building. “Pink’’ is
vice-president of the North Texas Washington and Lee
Alumni Association and very active in all matters per-
taining to his alma mater.

Cuartes D. McCass is in the oil business with of-
fices in the Ricker-Dobson building, San Angelo, Texas.
He says he recently saw Herman Crile, who is practicing
law in Roswell, N. M., and that he occasionally runs into
Tex Bryan, who is still a bachelor and
living in Abilene, Texas.

GREEN B. FENLEy is practicing law
and engaged in ranching in Uvalde,
Texas.

RAN CABELL is in Covington, Va.
He is married and has a son, aged four,
and is in the wholesale coal business
with the Cabell Coal company, repre-
sentatives in the southeastern states of
the Berwind-White Coal Mining com-
pany of Philadelphia.

Harotp G. RosBerTSON is president
of the Liberty Trust Co., Salem, Va.

J. S. EpMonpson is a member of the law firm of
Dixon, Williams and Edmondson, located in the Com-
merce Title building, Memphis, Tenn., where he has been
practicing law for the past fifteen years.

1921

Rosert M. Hutcueson is employed by the Virginia
Insurance Rating Bureau, engaged in fire insurance.
Has been in this work for fifteen years.

Homer S. HENDERSON is assistant trust officer of the
Second National Bank, Houston, Texas.

JAMEs Roy Srvart, after graduating from Washing-
ton and Lee, attended Cornell for three years, graduating
in 1924 with a mechanical engineering degree. Is now
with the F. B. Shriver Company of Westminster, Mary-
land. This company is in the vegetable canning business,
operating four factories in western Maryland and Penn-
sylvania. He is now production manager. Was married
in 1934 to Miss Francis Dornin.

 

1922

Francis A. SUTHERLAND is practicing surgery in
the Allen building, Torrington, Conn.

James Linpsay Parron is rector of St. Mark’s par-
ish, Berkeley, Calif. His church is situated on the edge of
the campus of the University of California.

1926

Tex TILson is coaching football at Washington and
Lee, farming, managing a boys’ summer camp near Lex-
ington, and was recently elected a deacon in the Presby-
terian church. He is married and has a son, Jimmie, and

a daughter, Helen.

1927

Marion L,. BERGMAN is practicing
law in Roanoke, Va., with offices in the
Shenandoah Life building. He 1s mar-
ried and has one child, a girl three
years old.

Marion M. JUNKIN, now on the
faculty of the Richmond division of the
College of William and Mary, was
awarded first prize in the 6th annual
Virginia Arts Exhibition in Richmond,
Virginia.

1928

Ep Miter: has been serving as assistant attorney
general of Missouri, handling the state’s affairs in St.
Louis since September, 1933, and has been practicing law
as a member of the firm of E. T. & E. H. Miller since
September 1, 1934, having prior to that time graduated
from Harvard. He was married April 4, 1934.

Jack L. Hopkins is with the Standard Drug Com-
pany, Meridian, Miss.

Ruypon C,. LATHAM has just recently formed a part-

nership for practice of law under the firm name of Latham

. & Elmore, with offices in the Florida National Bank build-
ing, Jacksonville, Florida.

STANLEY H. Coo.tinc is living at 60 Marshall street,
Brookline, Mass.

1929

Buck BaILey is with the Aetna Life Insurance Com-
pany. His office is in the Republic Bank building, Dallas,
Texas.

Cuarces D. MERCKE is with the Jefferson Wood-
working Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

[St]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1930

F. L. SHIPMAN is a member of the firm of Shipman
& Shipman, attorneys-at-law, Troy, Ohio. Mr. Shipman,
Senior, is an alumnus of Washington and Lee of the class

of 1901.

MeEpForp RAMEy is director of intramural athletics
at Virginia Military Institute. He holds a degree from
both Washington and Lee and V. M. I.

RicHarp DoucuttE, JR., is with the New South Oil
Company, Helena, Ark.

JAMES BERNARD MERRICK is principal of one of the
high schools in his native county. He lives in Crumpton,
Maryland.

MERLE SvuTER lives at 4903 Rock Spring Road,
Clarendon, Va.

HoweErRTON GOwWEN is with the Continental Illinois
National Bank and Trust Co., Chicago, III.

Britt Atsop is with the Dixie Lime Products Com-
pany, Ocala, Fla.

Rosert W. Mos ey is in the wholesale grocery bus-
iness in Conway, Ark.

MIKE PALMER is a member of the law firm of Mour-
sund, Ball, Moursund, and Bergstrom, San Antonio,
Texas.

Morris C. Montcomery is practicing law with his
father, Charles F. Montgomery.

1931

Ltoyp A. Myers is with the Black Diamond ‘Trailer
Company, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Sip Cray is general bookkeeper in the Capitol ‘Trust
Company of Frankfort, Ky.

Duncan McConnegeLt is in the department of geol-
ogy and mineralogy at the University of Minnesota, do-
ing some teaching, some consulting work, and some
studying toward a Ph. D. degree.

Watson Bowks is the “son” in A. G. Bowes & Son,
realtors in Denver, Colorado. This is the oldest real estate
firm in Denver. He is married and has a son just enter-

9 99

ing “the mischievous two’s.

Kart M. Situ, A. B., is manager of the Elmhurst
Inn at Swickley, Pennsylvania.

1932

CHARLIE Woop is practicing law in Charleston, W.
Va., with offices in the Security Bank & Trust building.

Jack Marruews is practicing law in Galax, Va.
Says he lives one hundred miles from nowhere, and to
get there you take a train as far as it goes; then take a
car as far as it goes; then ride horseback as far as the
horse can go; then walk as far as you can and you are
almost there.

FRANCIS FULLER is practicing law in Atlanta, Ga.

Ross MALone has been appointed city attorney for
Roswell, N. M. He is also a project attorney for the Re-
settlement Administration for an irrigation project near

Roswell.

Henry MacKEnzZIs is with the Home Owners Loan
Corporation, Baltimore, Md.

Jerry Ho rstern is practicing law in Lexington, Va.

 

In Memoriam

LINDLEY ALLISON Hickman, A. B., 99 died May
30, 1937, in Louisville, Kentucky.

Aytetr B. CoLemaAn, LL. B., 94, died February 12,
1937, in Roanoke, Virginia.

JupcE Isaac P. Biepsor, ’71, died April 3, 1937, in
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

SENATOR NATHAN IL. BAcuMAN, '00, died suddenly

of a heart attack in Washington, D. C., on April 23,
1937.

GEORGE Preston Jackson, '15, died April 13, 1937.

RoseErtT WALKER WILLIAMs, ’O8, died at Catawba
Sanitarium, Thursday, July 8th, and was buried from
his home in Wytheville, Virginia.

Jupcr Asa L.. DUNCAN died at his old home in Frank-
lin county, Virginia, Thursday, July 8th. Judge Duncan
received his B.L. from Washington and Lee in 1886, and
while still a young man moved to Missoula, Montana,
where he had a brilliant legal career.

[32]

 

 

McCRUM’S

S

By HENRY BOLEY |

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

|
|

&
| Whitman’s

and Martha Washington Candies

os
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

=
Your Mail Order Will

Receive Our Best Attention

was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee
$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
@

Philip P. Gibson

Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House

Hackensack, N. J.
@

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Ruff & Ready
Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921
Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building

Kast Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

Y

7)

Hee

them

S
ES
E
a
S
~
~
=
S
K
=

Chesterfields ire

er Py Yar Oak

Copyright 1937, LicGett & Myers TOBACCO Co,

 

