UMNi Magazine

of Washington and [ee Universi

Mee oe '
ee. s <P ey wa EERE ae we
- Foe NI: Sty eee CS IMD SE, Te
BR Sag. GG ae Sean

5 CREE: OT MES Te AR PA VPC AL Sadat oe a 4
: Wee aXe. ‘ ¢ .

‘ng Syts 4 ; 4 7

“ ‘

 
   

“> 6
a ee
ere IS

 

BS distr VIII Piranibick |
€ ctaher. 1932 x30 3 Vear

 

 

-

=,

ower ert ate yw Fe

- = . ee

i: = ie Oe a Bes Dey et et OA Ry ee

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

cards in the directory. Rates on application.

 

 

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL; ’18-’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAWYER Suite 303 First National Bank
Building Douc.Las, OBEAR & DoucLas
Atlantic City, N. J.
Bluefield, W. Va. Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.
BLANK & STOLLER, INC.
Photographers of men ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
Official Photographers AvrTroRNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
for 25-29 Citizens National Bank
The Alumni Magazine 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building Building
227 E. 45th St., New York . .
19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Ill Atlanta, Georgi Parkersburg, W. Va.
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus Exchange Building, ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Tampa, Florida Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building
Roanoke, Virginia

W. H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21 Lynchburg, Virginia

 

John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10

Compliments of TUCKER AND MASON

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE Law OFFICES
E. C. CAFFREY, ’09 ou
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSON
SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

General practice in the courts of the Suite 301 Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Bank of America Building

= ae ee 625 Market Street _H. B. Moors, Principal
nsociate Aupcine tax Specials SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

Tower Building J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.

Washington, D. C. Telephone Exbrook 0237

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and
Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally

good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

one

 

| ee es Be oP ee a Mi er ee we ZS BIN

E

 

 

NED GRAHAM, ‘12 MERCER GRAHAM, ‘19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a Century

W. and L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

McCRUMS PRINTERS

As Always the Gathering Place Of

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
PUBLICATIONS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE PROGRAMS

INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Unexcelled Fountain Service

Jarman’s, Incorporated

LEXINGTON, VA. CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

E ek UA I

I

Det et Ce? A 2 ee ee

 

W.and L. Prospects for Golf Supremacy

ASHINGTON and Lee is rapidly becoming
jj recognized as the foremost golf center of the
BDL Y| South This was first apparent
in the summer of 1931 when the sport pages of news-
papers and sport publications carried stories of Billy
Howell, “Billy the kid,’’ who had upset the golf world
by his spectacu-

 

and nation.

 

lar record
throughout the
South, and his

Jackson- like
stand at the nat-
ional amateur in
Chicago. Again
in 1932, the
nation and the
world _ realized
Washington and
Lee had a boy
who was one of

the ten _ best
golfers in the
world, when
Billy, named
on the Walker
Cup team, in a
two-ball _four-

with Don
Moe set a terri-

some

fic pace with a 69
dav of the inter-nation matches.
Jalti-

more, Billy was classed among those who “had to be

during the second

In September, at the national amateur in
defeated to win the title.’ However, it was an over-
golfed boy struggling in vain to conquer those bent
greens to qualify. Along with others, many of whom
were seasoned veterans, Billy was forced to forget the
title for another year.

Howell's graduation will be a tremendous loss
to Coach Twombly’s golf team, but the freshman
class boasts of three men, all title holders, who are
capable of strengthening and maintaining Washington
and Lee’s supremacy in golf. Eugene Vinson, Meri-
dian, Mississippi, youth, who holds both the state and
open titles of Mississippi; James Watts, 17 year old
Lynchburg lad, who holds the city title; and Walter
“Buddy” Clement of Roanoke, Virginia, state cham-
pion of 1931.

Considering that Vinson has played but four years

 

Walter Clement, James Watts, Eugene Vinson, and Billy
One Old-timer and Three Who May Replace Him

[7 |

In

of golf, he presents a record seldom paralleled.

1929 he threw away his gift of a bag of worn out left-
handed clubs and played his first game on a real course.
The next year, without any form of instruction, Vinson
was medalist in the state tournament and succeeded
to the semi-finals.

Last year he conquered the best
in the state to
win both the
state and open
titles. This year
he repeated his
triumphs
throughout the
state and con-
tinued further.
His district for
qualifying for
the national ama-
teur was played
in Atlanta where

 

 

Vinson was

medalist wit h

46> Ta. the

qualifying

rounds of the

amateur at Five

Farms _ Club,

Howell Baltimore, he
shot 150, four

strokes under

Ouimet the winner of the 1931 amateur title. Vinson

was defeated in the first round, 4 and 3, by H. B.
Warner, New Haven, Connecticut, golfer.

Vinson holds over five course records in the South.
lis 68 over the 74 par course at Canton, Mississippi,
is yet unchallenged. His 65 over the 6800 yards, 72
The
Sedgefield Inn course at Greensboro, North Carolina,
records Vinson’s 67 as the record.

par, course of Meridian has never been equaled.

“Buddy” Clement has the distinction of winning
four titles in the same year. Last year he held the
state open, Roanoke high school, Virginia inter-scholas-
He holds the ama-
teur course record at the Blue Hills Country Club,
Roanoke, with 67, five under par.

tic, and the city of Roanoke titles.

Jimmy Watts began playing golf when he was
ten years old; this year, at seventeen, he was finalist
with Billy Howell for the Virginia state title. This
match was played over the James River Country Club

ee oe AP ee

course, Richmond, which Howell easily won, 9 and 7.
Jimmy is the present holder of the city of Lynchburg
title.

With three such eminent golfers in the freshman
class this year, it is possible to predict that Washington
and Lee will lead the collegiate world and will be rec-
ognized by all sportsmen for the position it holds in
the world of golf.

 

TRIBROOK GOLF COURSE

It will be of interest to alumni golfers to know that
the Lexington Golf Club has opened its new course
known as the Tribrook Golf Course and that much in-
terest is being taken in play there. The course is
beautifully situated on the Lee Highway about 1%
miles from Lexington.

There is every variety of shot on the course which
is 6075 yards in length with a par of 72. There are
shots up and down hills, water shots over a large pond
and over the creeks which run in several directions, and
shots through the trees. The nine-hole course is laid
out with a double set of trees which are played alter-
nately making the holes so different that it amounts
to the same thing as an eighteen-hole course. There
are so many natural hazards that there is scarcely any
need for artificial hazards, but sand traps will gradually
be added.

The house has attractive possibilities as a club
house with its setting among large trees and blooming
shrubs.

Many members of the club are professors at Wash-
ington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute, and
students and cadets are granted the privileges of the
club.

 

VIRGINIA’S YOUNGEST MAYOR

On September 1, the city of Crewe, Virginia, in-
augurated the youngest mayor in the state. At the
primary recently held C. H. “Buck” Wilson, 26-year
old alumnus of Washington and Lee was named for the
office without opposition.

Mr. Wilson attended Washington and Lee in 1927.

Crewe is the metropolis of Nottoway county, and
with a population of 2,152 in the 1930 census has the
largest voting precinct in the county.

Near the city is located a government aviation field
where a weather bureau with a staff of five employees
is maintained throughout the year. It is on the New
York to Atlanta airmail route.

 

A. B. Nickey, ’29, is in the insurance business in
Memphis, Tenn.

I

[8]

Ve a ee a Oe

W. D. A. ANDERSON, ’02

Col. W. D. A. Anderson, ’02, has recently been
transferred from Mobile, Ala., to Baltimore, Md. For
the past four years Col. Anderson has been in charge
of the United States engineering district in Mobile.
In Baltimore he will serve as corps area engineer on
the staff of General Paul B. Malone, who has charge
of Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and Mary-
land.

Col. Anderson is the son of Hon. Wm. A. Ander-
son, dec’d, for many years Rector of the University.
He attended Washington and Lee in 1900 and 1902;
graduated from West Point in 1904, second in his
class. He has had over 30 years service in New York,
Texas, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia, Cuba and Panama.
In Cuba he had charge of the compilation of the mili-
tary map of the island. In Panama he was department
engineer in charge of roads and mapping and military
engineering. During the first part of the World War
he had charge of maintenance of fortifications of the
Panama Canal and was chief of staff of the depart-
ment. During the World War he organized and
trained the 21st Engineers for service with the 18th
Division.

Since the World War Col. Anderson has been
district engineer at Montgomery, Ala., instructor of
military engineering at the Army Post graduate school
at Fort Leavenworth, consulting engineer for the New
York Transit Commission, Assistant Commandant of
the Army Engineering School at Fort Humphreys, Va.,
and district engineer at Mobile, Ala.

 

CELEBRATED EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY

Judge William H. Tayloe, ’78, celebrated his
eightieth birthday on August 26th. The occasion was
made memorable by a reception held in his honor
which was attended by many friends.

On September 21, Judge Tayloe delivered an ad-
dress on General Robert E. Lee at Coosada, which was
very much enjoyed by all who were privileged to
hear it.

 

Robert A. Merritt, B.A. ’28, has opened offices
for the general practice of law at 608 Banner Building,
Greensboro, N. C.

 

—_———

Among the successful candidates in the Democratic
primaries of DeWitt county, Texas, a decisive victory
was accorded T. A. Graves, LL.B. ’27, candidate for
County Judge. Graves received 2588 votes as against
1638 for his opponent.

i i i ii ee i i i i a i i i i a ee

ect i it ia i i ini i i ai i i EE ——— ee

T H E A LS Ue MON

I

Mm AS GS! ££. 2. Be me

Eighty Freshmen Attend 1932 Camp

  

F TER three days of careful training in the life
aN and activities of the Washington and Lee
student, more than eighty first-year men repre-
senting twenty-four states returned to Lexington from

Camp Powhatan, near Natural Bridge, Virginia.
The camp, an annual affair, was held in the beau-

lina, Maryland, New Mexico, Oklahoma, California,
and Arkansas, 1 each. The two new students from
New Mexico and California traveled the greatest num-
ber of miles to the 1932 camp.

Faculty leaders at Camp Powhatan were Dr. L.
J. Desha, Professor F. J. Gilliam, Professor J. A.

tiful Blue Ridge mountains. Its pur-
pose was to allow each freshman to
become better acquainted with his
fellow student before entering school.
It also gave each new man an op-
portunity to meet the faculty leaders
who take charge of the camp.

Daily activties were divided into
three parts. In the morning, talks
were given both by student and fac-
ulty leaders. An outdoor assembly
was held in the afternoon and at this
time new men were allowed to ask
questions concerning their first year
at Washington and Lee. The pro-
gram concluded with a night session
which followed the same plan as the
other two meetings.

The talks given at these sessions
were on such subjects as the honor
system, choice of course during the
first year, the fraternity and _ its
work, and religion about the campus.
They were given in an informal man-
ner and each was taken up carefully
enough to give the new student an
explanation of class-room work, his

 

 

The following appeared in
John Temple Graves’ column
in the Birmingham Age-Her-
ald ;

When Walter T. Lawton,
Jr., of this city, leaves next
week to enter Washington
and Lee University with the
scholarship he has won, he
will find himself in the heart
of one of the South’s finest
traditions and bravest hopes.
He will be glad some day, we
believe, that he and his father
decided upon a Southern col-
lege. Particularly a Southern
college where learning to live
is given a constant premium
over learning how to make a
living. There are many such
colleges left in the country
today, and the South has its
good quota.

 

 

Graham, the Rev. J. A. Grey, Pro-
fessor R. N. Latture, E. S. Mattingly,
Dr. J. S. Moffatt, Dr. W. W. Mor-
ton, and Professors E. K. Paxton,
C. E. Williams, and J. H. Williams.

The student leaders were made
up mostly of juniors and seniors
who talked informally with each new
man and helped with any difficulty
arising. During the three days, var-
ious men from Washington and Lee
visited the camp and addressed the
new men. Among these were Presi-
dent Francis P. Gaines, Dr. Vincent
C. Franks, Rector of the Episcopal
chruch, Professor Forest Fletcher,
department of physical education,
“Cy” Young, freshman coach and
alumni secretary, Harry L. Fitz-
gerald, president of the student body,
Carl B. Vickers, vice-president of the
student body, and William W.
Hawkins.

After the camp had closed, the
new men were free until Tuesday
morning when they assembled in Do-
remus gymnasium to take the psy-

chance in student activities and the open privileges of
spiritual life. Emphasis was naturally placed upon
customs and traditions of Washington and Lee.

One of the features of the 1932 camp was dis-
covered during one of the meals when it was found
that of the eight new men sitting around one of the
tables, five were sons of Washington and Lee alumni.
The Drake families from Port Gibson, Mississippi, have
been represented in Lexington during the past five
generations.

Of states represented at the camp, New York led
with 14, Virginia was second with 12, and Pennsylvania
third with 9. New Jersey sent 6, Illinois 5, Mississippi
and Ohio 4, West Virginia and Kentucky 3, Alabama,
Missouri and Florida 2, Texas, District of Columbia,
Wisconsin, Connecticut, South Carolina, North Caro-

[9 ]

chological tests. In the afternoon of the same day
each new man consulted his faculty advisor to draw
up a course and study it before registration.

During the first three days of the opening session,
brief addresses were given each evening in Lee Chapel
on subjects similar to those taken up at the camp.

 

Dr. Frank.M. Leech, ’16, of Lexington, has been
honored by election as a fellow of the American Col-
lege of Surgeons. His diploma will be awarded at
the annual meeting of the association at St. Louis in
October. ,

 

Dr. Samuel Gwynn Coe is Head of the History
Department of Southern College, Lakeland, Florida.

i) OF Bee mM: 2

| oe || eS

HE fighting Generals started their defense of
4 the 1931 state championship with the smallest
college squad in the Southern Conference.
Coaches Jimmie DeHart and Tex Tilson had only
twenty-five men report to them on Wilson field, Labor
Day. ‘Thirteen of these men were graduates of the last
years Frosh eleven, while only five had spent more than
one year on the varsity. The average weight of the
squad was one hundred and seventy-five pounds, eleven

men weighed one hundred and seventy and less.
Candidates reported from ten states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. West Virginia led the states, con-
tributing eight men to the squad, while Virginia and
Tennessee came second with three each. Kentucky,
Alabama, and Florida had two each, and New Jersey,
Ohio, South Carolina, New York, and the District of
Columbia added one man each. Eighteen of these men
came from high school, and seven from prep or mili-

  

tary schools. Charleston high school led the individ-
ual schools, having four graduates on the spuad, and
Fishburne Military Academy was second with two.

Coaches DeHart and Tilson were faced by the un-

MAA! Gi A ZZ H Ww G@

FOOTBALL §

Generals Find Lad,

pleasant prospect of filling gaps in the General’s line-
up caused by the graduation of seven men from last
year’s eleven, among which were Tilson, Mitchell, Mat-
tox, and Bailey who had been the mainstays of the Blue
and White gridiron machine for the past three years.
Tilson left a hole at guard, Mitchell at center, Mattox
at quarter and Bailey, who had been playing offensive
tackle and defensive fullback robbed DeHart not only
of a powerful defensive man but also of the mainstay
in the punting department. The loss of Martin, Nes-
bitt, and Steves complicated the coaches’ problems by
depriving them of their best reserve material. Of the
five men, three backs and two ends, who were bidding

 
  

for berths on last year’s eleven but who did not make
their monogram, and who were expected to return, only

Bill Thomas of Montgomery, Alabama,

 

 

  

ee

 

made his appearance.

The candidates were pretty evenly di-
vided among the positions as the squad con-
sisted of ten backs, four guards, four tack-
les, four ends, and three centers. Immediate-
ly after they reported, the coaches started
making Dyer over from a center to a tackle.
Harry Lough, fleet halfback from the 1931
frosh was the one casualty during the train-
ing camp, and he had to leave owing to a
broken rib.

For the second consecutive year, Jim-
mie DeHart, All-American fullback from
University of Pittsburgh, headed the coach-
ing staff. DeHart coached the Generals im-
mediately after his graduation from Pitts-
burgh in 1922, but went to Duke in 1926
where he coached for five years, only to re-
turn to W. and L,. in 1931. Tex Tilson who
played under DeHart at Washington and
Lee, and then went with him to Duke is as-
sistant Coach. Cy Young, alumni secretary,
Frank Bailey and Monk Mattox, complete
the coaching staff. The latter two are still
students at school.

This year will give the new DeHart
style of play its first real test. The system
was started last year, but the change from
the Oberst Notre Dame football to the De-
Hart play was too much to be accomplish-

 

 

Henthorne, Sophomore Back

[ 10 |

ed in one year and give the latter its proper

 

T H E & Li) Us MAN

lt

—D

SON AGAIN

th Her Back Turned

test. The DeHart play is devised on the Warner dou-
ble wing back system, and like its parent depends on
speed and deception. There are, however, many new
innovations in the play, and if successful will probably
start a revolutionary style of football.

Fighting against the big odds of weight and ex-
perience, the Generals received an 18 to O setback at
the hands of George Washington University in their
opening game before three thousand people on Wilson
Field. ‘The game was hard fought throughout, and the
victory was not as decisive as the score indicates. Fail-
ure to stop a surprise passing attack cost the Generals
victory; two of the scores were the direct results of
passes, and the other was the result of a combined run-
ning and passing attack.

The first score came eight minutes after

I

MAiAAiGi A Z HH &

The opponents succeeded in scoring fourteen first
downs, but they were mainly the result of the passing
attack.

The real margin of victory lay in the success of
the visitors’ passing attack ; they completed fourteen out
of twenty-nine passes for a total gain of two hundred
and twenty-seven yards, while the Generals could com-
plete only two out of fourteen passes for a gain of
twelve yards. ‘This aerial offense kept the ball well: in
General territory the entire game, and only once did the
Blue and White threaten to score, when they penetrated
the G. W. thirty yard line after Henthorne had inter-
cepted a pass. ‘The scoring threat went to naught.
when the G. W. backs were successful in breaking up
the Generals attempted passes.

Several changes and many new faces were seen ‘in
the lineup. Mosovich' and Hanley, ends; Dyer and’
Morris, tackles; Bolan and Grove, guards; Ruffner,
center; Sawyer, quarterback; Bacon and Collins, half:
backs; and Henthorne, fullback composed the starting
lineup. Of these Dyer was a converted center, Grove
a converted tackle, and Bacon a converted end. ‘The

 

the opening kickoff, and was chiefly due to
a lucky break on the part of the Colonials.
A George Washington man lying on_ the
ground over the General’s goal line caught
a pass that had been batted up in the air by
a General defense back to account for the
score. ‘The second score came from a twen-
ty-five yard gain off-tackle and several line
bucks, and third was made when a George
Washington end received a pass in mid-field
and ran fifty yards behind splendid interfer-
ence to cross the goal line unmolested. An-
other touchdown was prevented when Ruff-
ner, General center, intercepted a pass on
his own one yard line and returned the ball
to mid-field.

The Generals showed strong defensive
possibilities, particularly in the matter of
line play. Outweighed, they broke through
the opposing line on fourteen different oc-
casions and threw the Washington backs for
a total of thirty-seven yards loss; however,
the G. W. backs got loose on several occas-
ions and ran up a total of one hundred and
sixty-seven yards gain at the expense of the
secondary defense.

The Blue and White offense could not
seem to get started against the more exper-
ienced line. Washington and Lee made only
four first downs, gained seventy-nine yards
from scrimmage, and lost only ten yards.

 

 

 

Martin, Fast-Charging Lineman

[ 11 |

em s&s & Ls UA MEN

I

MiAl Gi & 2 Bh

 

game had not progressed very long before Tom Boland,
who did not start as he had been absent from a week’s
practice owing to the death of his mother, was placed
at guard. Other substitutions were Smith at end, and
Seaton and Mattox in the backfield. All three of these
men proved that they will be seen often in the lineup ;
Seaton’s work in particular was commendable. Ruff-
ner, Henthorne and Dyer played like veterans, and
Morris and Bolen’s defensive work was the outstand-
ing performance of the afternoon.

Battling a fast Davidson team on even terms for
almost the entire game, the Generals lost the second
game of the season by a score of 7 to 0 when Pearce,
Davidson halfback circled left end after Mackorell’s
return of a punt thirty-three yards to put the ball in
scoring position. Early in the game the Blue and White
lost the key man of the line. Ruffner, varsity center,
and Boland, star guard for the past two years were
both taken out because of injuries. The former is suf-
fering from a torn ligament and will be able to enter
the game in about a month, but the latter has a broken
leg and will be out for the entire season. The loss of
these men will be felt keenly by the coaches,
and much time will have to be spent in pre-
paring new men for the places. Louis Mar-
tin, Richmond, Va., who is spending his third
year trying to make the varsity will probably
fill the guard post, while it is a tossup as to
whether Grove or Glynn will be at center.

During the first quarter the Davidson
team had the ball in scoring position twice,
once on the twenty-one yard line and once
on the eleven, but a fighting Blue and White
line stopped both of these drives and Saw-
yer punted out of danger. In the second
period Hanley recovered a fumble for the
Generals, but the Davidson team stopped the
Washington and Lee attack. During the
third period the ball see-sawed between the
two teams around mid-field, and the fourth
quarter almost produced another Davidson
score as a result of a sustained drive down
field, but the Generals took the ball on downs
on the thirty yard line.

In spite of the two defeats, the Gener-
als still have an optimistic outlook and may
repeat the history of last year, when after
receiving three defeats in a row, they beat
Princeton, V. P. I., and Virginia, and tied
William and Mary to complete a successful
season which gave them the state champion-
ship. The coaches look forward to the rest
oi the games with enthusiasm, and despite
the injury to two of the best men on the line,

[ 12

 

and the difficulty of filling their places, have inspired
the squad with enthusiasm.

W. AND L. FOOTBALL SQUAD 1932

Yrs. on

Name Pos. Age Wet. Squad Prep School
Bacon Half 21 170 3 Charleston High School
Boland Guard 21 180 2 Charleston High School
Bolen Guard 21 i82 2 Ashland High School
Carmen Tackle 19 195 1 Tamroy High School
Collins Full 23 182 3 Danville Mil. Institute
Dyer Tackle 19 198 1 Johnson City H. §
Grove Tackle 23 200 2 Greenbrier Military S.
Glynn Centre 20 175 1 Fishburne Military S.
Hanley End 21 185 2 Mercersburg Academy
Henthorne Full 20 175 1 Ashland High School
Jones Half 21 170 1 Cleveland High School
Martin Guard 21 185 1 John Marshall High §S.
Mattox Half 19 155 1 Fishburne Military S.
Morris Tackle 21 185 3 Ceredo Kenova H. S.
Mosovich End 22 164 2 Perkiomon
Nash Half 20 160 1 Spartanburg High S.
Pride Full 22 165 3 Decatur High §S., Ala.
Ruffner Centre 21 180 1 Charleston High School
Sawyer Half 22 165 2 Oak Hill High School
Seaton Quarter 19 152 1 Charleston High School
Smith End 19 170 1 Jacksonville High S.
Todd Quarter 19 160 1 Lakeland High School
Thomas End 21 180 1 Glendale High School
Wertz Guard 22 170 2 Wooster High School
Wofford Tackle 22 190 3 Hill School

 

 

 

 

 

 

T H E A yi WON

—_—

I

Ma AY GS A Oe ee ee

A Cook’s Tour on the Magic Carpet

HIE President of Washington and Lee’s Alum-
ni, Inc., Walter MacDonald of Cincinnati,
2) Ohio, dreamed a dream. He saw the various
local organizations of the vast Association he heads—
scattered throughout the United States—being knit
more closely to the parent body; feeding this main ar-
tery and sponsoring a concentrated effort to obtain
subscriptions to Washington and Lee’s Alumni maga-

  

and the atmosphere, as well as the interest displayed by
the Alumni, was inspiring.

Tuesday found ‘The Vagabonds” in Charlotte, N.
C. The luncheon was served at Ivey’s and those who
answered to the roll call were, Dr. Will Allan, Tommie
Glasgow and Phil Howerton, president. In the after-
noon Dr. Allan drove the out-of-town guests to his
farm, a few miles out from the city. Here a dam was

zine. For only by this renewed urge
may the magazine live. The general
office asks little, in these precarious
times, but that little is absolutely nec-
essary to survive.

So Cy Young, secretary of the
Alumni, Inc., was invited by the
president, Walter MacDonald, to ride
on the MacDonald Magic Carpet to
many cities, to informally discuss
ways and means for this pull-together
campaign. The gentlemen generally
played to one night stands.

August the eleventh, Pittsburgh,
Pa., was visited. A dinner at the
University Club was attended by the
“Wandering Minstrels,” Cy and Wal-
ter, Chuch Robinson, Harry Recten-
wald, Charlie Lile, Bob Taylor, and

 

How many Washington and
Lee alumni and former students
are in newspaper, magazine, or
advertising work? The Univer-
sity wants to know because it is
now planned that within a month
or so a directory of Washington
and Lee men in Journalism will
be published.

If you are in journalistic work
or if you know any Washington
and Lee man so engaged, will
you drop a note to the Alumni
secretary or to Prof. William L.
Mapel of the Department of
Journalism. The University has
a fairly complete record of stu-
dents who have taken work
since the present journalism cur-
riculum was set up in 1925, but
there is no record of men who
attended school before that date.

in the process of being built and a
thought came to the guest of the ver-
satility of Washington and Lee Alum-
ni. Sometimes they became doctors,
after leaving their Alma Mater, ac-
quire farms and then dam_ small
rivers, if necessary to accomplish an
aim.

The next “Port” was Bobby
Jones’ town, Atlanta, Georgia. Lunch-
eon was served at the Atlanta Ath-
letic Club. Bunny Humphfies, presi-
dent, and Bruce Woodruff, secretary,
with Bill Ward did the honors for
Atlanta. Bruce caused an interest-
ing drive to be a feature of this stop,
during which Washington and Lee
was not left entirely out of the con-
versation. A second day was spent

J. H. Wetzel. Bill Claudy came
down from Bellefonte, Pa.
From the “Smoky City” they

be left out.

 

Please help out so no one will

in Atlanta calling on a few Alumni.
Friday found Cy and Walter
stepping from the train in Jackson-

 

 

traveled to Philadelphia and gath-
ered IYrank Bready and Lynwood Holmes around a
luncheon table, on the roof of the Bellvue-Stratford.

New York was the next stop. There Eli Millen,
local president, Edward W. Lee, secretary, Milton Rog-
ers, George Wilkinson, Emmett Poindexter, and Nelson
Burris met on the St. Regis roof, to talk over plausible
ways for the general association to expand by means of
aid from its tributaries. Mighty streams are made
from tiny branches. A great depth can be cut in the
“Big River” from such an organization as The Great
Metropolis affords.

The first week-end of this zipping tour was spent
in the nation’s capital, Washington, D. C.. Monday,
Dozier DeVane, Elwood Seal, Ed Campbell, secretary
of the Washington club, took Cy and Walter to the
Cosmos Club for luncheon. Woodson P. Houghton,
president, was out of the city. The distinguished Cos-
mos Club is partly housed in Dolly Madison’s old home,

ville, Florida. Monty Myerson was
out of town so his brother, the manager of the Carling
Hotel, was a true brother to a Washington and Lee
Alumnus. This story would not be complete without
a word of appreciation of Mr. Myerson’s thoughtful-
ness. While on this phase of the trip emphasis may
be put on Rhydon Lathams and Reuben Ragland’s ef-
forts to make “The Vagabonds” stay a memorable one.
R. M. Baker, president, with Fred Valz, Herman UI-
mer, and Rhydon Latham took part in the Jacksonville
discussions.

So far, the tour was almost too good to be true, in
in order to make this an authentic rendering of a hur-
ried North American jaunt it could be said that the
ride from Jacksonville to New Orleans was long and
hot. There was nothing any local organization could
do to prevent this Alumni, Inc., head and assistant from
taking this uneventful ride, by way of Pensacola and
Mobile, if they had to leave Jacksonville and get to

[ 13 ]

oe. 2 Mm he SIA. ee aN

New Orleans. So suffer they did. August can be an
extremely warm month in that section of the country.

But New Orleans made up for any discomfiture
that could possibly be experienced in as slow a means
of travel as a train. The “Crescent City,” noted for its
cooking and French atmosphere, was more than ample
compensation. This week-end was so filled with atten-
tion and courtesies that some may be inadvertently un-
mentioned. They will not be forgotten. Sunday, Elmore
Dufour took “The Travelers” far and wide and cram-
med much into a few hours of educational excursions.

At luncheon, Monday, the following gathered at
one of the most famed French restaurants: Petre Ham-
ilton, Dr. Hugh Blain, and Elmore Dufour. Monday
evening, Antoines was visited and the cordiality of the
proprietor together with the tasting of his recommend.
ed viands caused “The Vagabonds” to board the train
as the wheels were making their first revolution. Oh,
it was truly a constant racing and jumping to pull “The
Travelers” away from one alluring spot to another.
Nothing but a Magic Carpet could have done it.

Birmingham was reached Tuesday morning. Aftes
registering at the Tutweiler, calls were made on a few
friends. A drive to “Goat Acres,’ Cot Henley’s farm,
was the chief attraction in the afternoon. Cot and
Walter Hood played the role of hosts on this drive and
the peculiar cognomen for the Henley farm was ex-
plained by Cot’s fear of a high sounding name being
attached to his modest place. There are many unusual
titles one can think of but this one wins the blue ribbon.

The only city in which an Alumni meeting was
called was in Birmingham, and this meeting deserved
to be the one of its kind through the entire journey.
About thirty men were present and Mark Hanna, the
local president, deserves unstinted praises for the mas-
terly way in which he brought together so large and en-
terprising group of men, in summer’s hottest month.

From Birmingham to Memphis is a short and
pleasant ride, so two cheered and inspired Alumni
alighted from the Southern train on Wednesday to end
their trip in “The Bluff City.” Luncheon at the Pea-
body found Dr. Sam Raines, Maynard Holt, Barry
Buford and George Faison among those present. John
Speed acted as chauffeur for the afternoon drive and a
dinner at the University Club closed the fifteen day
travelogue.

[t is difficult to compute the actual value of such
an undertaking, for spirit and interest cannot be dress-
ed in definite words. But the gradual opening of the
locks of the smaller streams are being felt as this Ma-
gazine goes to press. May the incoming enthusiasm
cause Old Man River, the Alumni, Inc., to overflow
its banks and greatly enrich the outlying districts, in
every field of Washington and Lee’s endeavors.

 

ees Oe ee A ee ee

APPOINTED CASHIER

Joseph EF. Birnie, ’24, has been appointed cashier
of the Morris Plan Bank of Peteresburg, Virginia.
For the past four
years he has been
cashier of the Mor-
ris Plan Bank in
Richmond.

Mr. Birnie is
recognized as an
expert in the Mor-
ris Plan type of
banking, having
written a number
of articles on the
subject for national
banking — publica-
tions, and also hav-
ing spoken on this
phase of banking
before the national
convention of the
American Institute
of Banking.

Mr. Birnie has done splendid work for the Associ-
ation in organizing alumni in Richmond. He has
moved to Petersburg and taken up his work there.

Joseph E. Birnie

 

George (Tip) Cayle and Brown Truslow paid
Lexington a hurried visit on October 10th. They were
making the trip from Charleston, W. Va., to Staunton,
Va., and return in one day.

 

S. C. Rose, 13, was a recent visitor to the Alumni
office. Mr. Rose spent the summer in Bellport, N. Y.,
and was returning to his home in West Point, Miss.

 

Leon Rice Robison, Jr., ’30, is studying for the
ministry at Union Theological Seminary, New York.
His address is 600 W. 122nd St. Robison was a mem-
ber of the 1930 boxing team.

 

Charles P. (*““Chuck”) Robinson, ’10, is president
of the Business Service Co., Park Building, Pittsburgh,
Pa.

 

At the commencement exercises of the University
of Pennsylvania on June 22nd, Elbert W. G. Boogher
received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. Mr.
soogher received his A.B. degree at Washington and
Lee in 1902, his M.A. in 1903, and an M.A. degree
from the University of Pennsylvania in 1925. His
home is at Merchantville, N. J.

[| 14 |

 

 

- HW A Ey ie we

——7-_™

I

es ee FM a ee

Meeting of W. and L. Alumni, Inc.

=ee|HE regular meeting of the Washington and
||| Lee Alumni, Inc., was held at 10 A. M. June

  

The usual reports were read and approved.
The following resolution was unanimously
adopted :

The Alumni of Washington and Lee, upon the
occasion of their annual meeting, are pleased to
renew their expressions of gratification in the high-
ly effective administration of the University and
its affairs, under the able guidance of President
Francis P. Gaines.

At a time when every form of human endeavor
is making unexpected demands upon administrative
ability, it is with a deep sense of satisfaction that
we find the University in hands entirely worthy
of the trusts and responsibilities committed to
them. The capacity for wise and_ progressive
leadership, sound judgment and policy, and de-
votion to the best interests of Washington and
Lee, demonstrated by those in charge of its des-
tinies, inspires our confidence in its continued ad-
vancement, the preservation of its lofty ideals,
and the perpetuation of its unique place in our
civilization.

To President Gaines, Dean Tucker, the Board
of Trustees, and all those who labor with them
in the service of Alma Mater, we again tender our
assurances of sincere loyalty, interest and support.

To Dr. H. D. Campbell, who retires as dean of
the University after a long and honored career of
service, we offer a tribute of genuine affection
and esteem from all those who have come under
the spell of his rare influence and happy person-
ality. We rejoice that “Old Harry” will continue
his active connection with Washington and Lee—
a connection which from length of time and de-
gree of accomplishment, deserves a place among
its most valued traditions.

The Treasurer’s report was accepted and ordered
to be filed as follows:

TREASURER’S REPORT
RECEIPTS

malance July,:1, eels. SRGt Winnie $30.84
Receipts—Magazine Subscriptions.................. 669.66
Receipts—Magazine Advertising.................... 211.55
Donations from local clubs........0...0..00.000000000+ 60.00

Total... ccs eee a pa eee $972.05

DISBURSEMENTS

Cost of publishing magazine..............0....00.0... $451.56
TEUMRIIDEL igo. cea Re te 3 gi tue gree 72.65
EAUITEL 0s vg, Hass hsoh gna ten abetted. coe 21.06
PR IRCET BROCE 5.35 cece tails thes. «cobteaibomnchs tack 35.70
Cpiice sutmlien ic... oan s 4s dasa aeeeeie 236.68
Tear ee a a ee ek 14.55
WV DOE OE «oA a os. ate varia 19,94
MMR ai opiate TS « sSttiss << -is% + AO al $852.14
DOR 5 SRR ietoanise $972.05
Drwbursements S:..5....:Gaas....... 852.14
PROTONS FUMIO DY. <5 .00c5 soeeses sense $119.91
Bills payable (Va. Publishing Co.,
Printing magazine March and May)...... $415.00
Tite: TOMEI inci tA ch Nae ee 80.00
$335.00
RRIeOy RUM bik, Nain dcp co ocho talscchcecd, bboy 119.91
SMD 22 ool os occas aahicgansns Nps. akiade acee eee $216.09

The report of the president’s committee on re-
organization was made by Mr. Ran Tucker. Mr.
Tucker went into details regarding the work of this
committee and presented suggestions for revised by-
laws. ‘The revised by-laws as offered by the commit-
tee were unanimously adopted.

Walter McDonald and Edward W. Lee were
elected to serve as members of the board of trustees
to fill the vacancies caused by the expiration of the
terms of FE. C. Caffrey and S. O. Laughlin. This
term is for three years. C. S. Glasgow, R. S. Hutche-
son, Laurence Witten and Joe Silverstein were elected
members of the athletic council to serve for a term of
one year.

Immediately following the general meeting of the
Alumni, Inc., the meeting of the board of trustees of
that organization was called to order.

The following members of the board were pres-
ent: Walter McDonald, Stuart Moore, Dozier De-
Vane, Ran Cabell, Judge E. C. Caffrey, and Ran
Tucker.

The following officers were elected: president,
Walter McDonald, vice-president, Ran Tucker, treas-
urer, Stuart Moore.

After much discussion a plan of financing the cor-
poration through local organizations was presented and
adopted.

The Alumni secretary was instructed to have 500
copies of the newly adopted by-laws printed for dis-
tribution among the local organizations.

[ 15 ]

Pe ee he ee

I

Mi Ar’eG A 2. tae

 

 

 

 

-
+4
ae

aa

~ vy
oO =
i -  - -

 

 

 

Mr. H. M. W. Drake, ’97, and His Two Sons, Winbourne
Magruder and John Henry of Port Gibson, Mississippi

MANY SONS OF ALUMNI ENROLL

Twenty-four members of the 1932 freshman class
are sons of Washington and Lee graduates; two of
these are brothers, making twenty-three General alumni
S. M. Dodd, Lexington,
Va., the father of Calvin Dodd was the earliest of the

represented in the new class.

group to graduate, having been a member of the class
of ’89. R. E. Holland, also of Lexington, Va., father
of R. E. Holland, Jr., was the last of the group to
finish, having completed his course in 1914. Only two
of the parents are deceased: Ralph Bumgardner of
Staunton, and L. A. McMurran of Newport News.
Ten states contributed to this group of students:
Virginia led with eight, Kentucky and Mississippi came
second with four each, and West Virginia had two.
The following states had one each: New York, Mary-
land, Oklahoma, Alabama, Massachusetts, and Texas.
Port Gibson, Mississippi, had three students, and
Staunton and Lexington, Virginia, had two each.
John Henry Myers Drake and Winbourne Ma-
gruder Drake are the sons of Mr. and Mrs. H. M. W.
Drake of Port Gibson, Miss. Mr. Drake was a mem-
ber of the class of "97, and Mrs. Drake was Miss Mil-
dred Myers of Her father H. H.
Myers was a student at Washington College when the
Civil War broke out, and was one of the Liberty Hall
volunteers; her grandfather was John Henry Myers,
treasurer of Washington College from 1852 to 1857;
and her great-grandfather, Daniel Blain was a student

Lexington, Va.

in Washington College before 1800, and was a profes-
sor in the college from 1802 to 1814.
Sons of Alumni Entering W. and L. This Year

Sam Halley, son of Dr. Samuel H. Halley, ’92,
Lexington, Ky.; R. Bolling Lambeth, son of S. S. Lam-

 

beth, 93, Bedford, Va.; J. Vaughan Beale, son of
Ernest L. Beale, 08, Franklin, Va.; Joseph T. Drake,
Jr., son of Joseph T. Drake, ’90, Port Gibson, Miss. ;
Henry Drake, son of W. H. M. Drake, ’97, Port Gib-
son, Miss.; W. Magruder Drake, son of W. H. M.,
Drake, ’°97, Port Gibson, Miss.; E. M. Baum, III, son
of E. M. Baum, Jr., 13, Norfolk, Va.; Chas. EK. Syden-
stricker, son of Edgar Sydenstricker, ‘07, Brooklyn,
N. Y.; R. E. Holland, Jr., son of R. E. Holland, ’14,
Lexington, Va.; Geo. Boyd, Jr., son of Geo. Boyd, 02,
Hagerstown, Md.; Graham Sale, Jr., son of Graham
Sale, 02, Welch, W. Va.; Paul Morrison, son of J.
L. Morrison, 99, Hazard, Ky.; Gilmer Long, son of
W. G. Long, LL.B. ’08, Sulphur, Okla.; Wm. G. Wig-
lesworth, Jr., son of W. G. Wiglesworth, ‘92, Cyn-
thiana, Ky.; Richard Burnett, son of R. F. Burnett,
09, Birmingham, Alabama.

Rudolph Bumgardner, son of Rudolph Bumgard-
ner, 94, dec’d, Staunton, Va.; Billy Thompson, son of
W. L. Thompson, ’01, Mt. Sterling, Ky.; Jack Bierer,
son of J. M. Bierer, 08, Waban, Mass.; John Cover,
son of Russell Cover, 08, Staunton, Va.; Lewis, Mc-
Murran, Jr., son of L. A. McMurran, ’07, dec’d, New-
port News, Va.; Duncan Corbett, son of J. M. Corbett,
'01, Bay City, Texas; R. F. Cooper, Jr., son of Dr. R.
F. Cooper, ’04, Holly Springs, Miss.; Calvin M. Dodd,
son of S$. M. Dodd, ’89, Lexington, Va.; Billy Darnall,
son of Harry H. Darnall, 07, Huntington, W. Va.

 

Bruce Woodruff, 16, is practicing law in Atlanta,
Ga. He is a member of the firm of Randolph &
Wodruff with offices in the Trust Company, of Geor-
gia Building.

 

John L. Patterson, A.B. ’21, has been appointed
manager of the office of the Massachusetts Bonding
and Insurance Co., of Boston, at St. Louis, Mo. In
addition to St. Louis, Mr. Patterson’s territory will in-
clude Missouri and southern [llinois.

 

NO SUMMER ISSUE OF THE MAGAZINE

For reasons of economy the Summer Edition
of the Magazine was not published. Heretofore
this issue has been sent by the University to all
living alumni as well as to subscribers. In order
to meet our obligation to issue the Magazine five
times a year there will be a November number,
after which the regular course will be pursued.
The Alumni Secretary regrets the necessity which
made this course unavoidable.

 

 

 

[ 16 |

T HE A Lo UK. Mi N

I

WS) Tako
VD

pal mt Se) MZ Oe Ee

New Dean Has Ideal Background

mg|OST university deans run the stereotyped
course from an instructorship through the dif-
== | ferent professional ranks, to a department
headship, and then into the dean’s office. From the
time they start teaching until they land in executive
positions they are associated with one academic de-
partment, without any outside
experience except that which
comes from the committee work

  

and so forth.

Not so with Dr. Robert H.
Tucker, the new Dean of the
University at Washington and
Lee. Successor to the beloved
Henry Donald Campbell, Doctor
Tucker combines a type of aca-
demic and administrative train-
ing and experience that makes
him particularly fitted for his
new post with the University.

Trained as a graduate stu-
dent and teacher in several dif-
ferent college departments over
a period of more than thirty
years, Dean Tucker brings to his
new office an academic under-
standing rich because it comes
f ro m diversified experience.
Coupled with his manifold teach-
ing record are a number of years
in strictly administrative work
for two universities and an
enviable record as a_ working
specialist in economic and political science.

Dean Tucker was elevated to his new office from
that of Dean of the College last summer when Doctor
Campbell reached the age of retirement after twenty-
six years as Dean of the University. Alumni of Wash-
ington and Lee are happy to know that Doctor Camp-
bell has not severed his entire connection with the
school, but still retains the chair of geology he has
held for many years. In point of service, he is the
oldest member of the faculty. He joined the staff in
1887,

A native Virginian, Dean Tucker first was grad-
uated from the College of William and Mary. Since
that time he has studied at the universities of Chicago
and Wisconsin and in Germany. At Wisconsin he held
a fellowship in economics.

 

 

Robert H. Tucker, A.B., A.M., LL.D.

Dean Tucker started teaching at his Alma Mater
where his work was in English and History. From the
Virginia school he was called to the State Agricultural
and .Mechanical college of Oklahoma. Here he taught
German and English until he was made dean of the
college of science and literature. Shortly thereafter he
became vice-president of the in-
stitution.

At Wisconsin he taught in
the department of economics,
from which he was called to
Washington and Lee to teach
economics, commerce, and _ busi-
ness administration.

Washington and Lee also
has claimed his services for ad-
ministrative work. With the
resignation of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith as president several years
ago, Dean Tucker was made act-
ing president of the school and
served until the inauguration of
President Gaines, at which time
he was made Dean of the College.

Work for the state and na-
tion have drawn heavily on Dean
Tucker’s time. During the war
he was employment manager
for the American Shipbuilding
company at Brunswick, Ga., and
since that time—usually in ad-
dition to full time work at Wash-
ington and Lee— he has been
constantly on state commissions for simplification and
betterment of state and local government. He was
chairman and one of the organizers of the Industrial
Commission of Virginia; and his last work of this
kind was as chairman of the Virginia Commission on
County Government. Significant it is that although
he resigned this office on his appointment to th edean-
ship last spring, the resignation was not accepted by
the governor of Virginia until several weeks ago,
when the press of the state, editorially as well as in the
news columns, spoke with regret of the matter.

Following is part of one of the many editorials
telling of Dean Tucker’s work for the Commonwealth:

Dr. R. H. Tucker’s work on county govern-
ment probably failed to impress the great rank and

file of the people of Virginia. It was not spectac-

at

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSIFY

LEXINGTON, VA.

. = me. ee aN

I

MiAUG AZ E ew

 

ular. It was done without any fanfare of trum-

pets. He made no rousing addresses to stir the

voters to a high pitch of enthusiasm.

But it was, nonetheless, a monumental work.
His report to the General Assembly of 1932 has
been accepted throughout the country as a model
of what can be suggested for the improvement of
county government. Much of it received favor-
able action. ‘The bulk of it, however, remains as
unfinished business.

Because of his very important duties as dean
of Washington and Lee University, Dr. Tucker
has found it necessary that he resign chairmanship
of the Commission on County Government. Thus
he severs once again, as he did after organizing the
Industrial Commission and placing it on a working
basis, his official connection with the State. His
going will be widely regretted. He proved him-
self a public servant of unusual worth.

This for his extra-curricular work. Much more
can be—and has been—said for the man as a teacher,
and it is with regret that the university is denied his
full-time teaching personality." For the present, at
least, Dean Tucker will offer two courses each semester
in the field of economics in which he is a recognized
authority and an effective, forceful teacher.

Author of numerous monographs and articles on
economic and administrative topics, Dean Tucker is
one of the best known economists in the country. Be-
cause of his ten years in the teaching of English and
German, his twenty years in economics and business ad-
ministration , and his fine record as an educational and
governmental administrator, he is considered fully pre-
pared for the new task before him, and alumni of
Washington and Lee congratulate not only the man but
the University.

 

STUDENTS PREFER CULTURAL COURSES

Despite a 4.6 per cent’ decrease in total enroll-
ment, administrative officials of Washington and Lee
university are delighted with what matriculation sta-
tistics for the 1932-33 session disclose.

The loss of a few students might seem damaging
when viewed from the surface, President Francis P.
Gaines, pointed out; but an analysis shows that Wash-
ington and Lee curtailment came in the upper classes
this year. With a larger number of new students than
last year, Doctor Gaines emphasized the fact that the
situation probably is temporary only and that next
year the student body should be headed back toward its
normal strength. Total enrollment today is 825 stu-
dents.

Contrary to a general opinion that university stu-

—————

dents are turning to cultural rather than technical
courses, Washington and Lee finds a break toward pro-
fessional training. Particularly in the school of law —
and in such professional departments as journalism
and pre-medical a sharp enrollment increase is noted.
The law school more than any division of the univer-
sity comparatively has an enrollment, with a beginning
class of fifty students and a total enrollment of ninety-
four. Journalism enrollment is up between 30 and
40 per cent, and indications are that the number of
students preparing for the medical profession is greater,
although facts on this never are available until in the
spring.

Although first-year engineering students are fewer
than last year, there will be more engineering graduates
next spring than any time in the last five or six years.

The upper-class fall-off in enrollment has cut en-
rollment in the school of commerce to a certain extent,
but administrators of the school believe its smaller
student body due to curricular changes in the university
rather than to depressed economic conditions of the
country. It is believed many students who took degrees ©
in commerce in the past now are being graduated from

the arts college with majors in departments in the com-

merce school.

The first-year law class is phenomenally larger
than that of last year which numbered but 28 students.
Out of the fifty freshmen lawyers seventeen came to
the Washington and Lee Law School after taking pre-
legal work at other institutions, and five others took
part of their preparatory work elsewhere than at the
Lexington institution.

Whatever upper-class enrollment decrease the
university suffered was not felt in the law school where
the statement is made that only one student here last.
year failed to return for other than scholastic reasons.
It is further noted that the fifty freshman lawyers came —
to Washington and Lee from eighteen of the United
States and one foreign country, Mexico. |

 

OPEN INN ON W. AND L. CAMPUS

Miss Olympia Williamson of Richmond, at one
time a resident of this community has returned to-
Lexington and taken over what was formerly known
as the Blue Tavern or University Inn on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. She has opened it as a tea room
under the name of “Old Blue.” ‘The house has been
an inn for generations and has a historic background.

 

Montague Rosenberg, LL.B. ’30, has opened offices
for the general practice of law at 212 Graham Build-
ing, Jacksonville, Fla.

[ 18 ]

= H 5B AY 1D Uk MY ON

 

 

 

| OBITUARY

COL. RUDOLPH BUMGARDNER, ’94

Col. Rudolph Bumgardner, 94, prominent mem-
ber of the Staunton, Virginia, bar, died at the King’s
Daughters’ Hospital, August 29, 1932, following an
operation for appendicitis.

Colonel Bumgardner was born on June 11, 1872,
the son of the late Capt. James Bumgardner and Mary
Mildred Bumgardner.

For about thitry-five years he practiced law in
Staunton and was highly regarded by the members of
the bar as well as the citizenry in general. He had
been counsel for the B. & O. Valley branch for many
years. He was associated with his father in the prac-
tice of his profession until the death of Captain Bum-
gardner some years ago, and since that time has main-
tained his office alone.

Colonel Bumgardner had taken an interest in mili-
tary affairs since his early youth and at the outbreak of
the Spanish-American war he entrained for Florida
with Co. K., West Augusta Guard, the local home-
guard unit. After remaining in training camps in
Florida for some time, he resigned from the local
company, and was commissioned a lieutenant in a com-
pany of engineers, with which he served in Florida and
Cuba for the remainder of the war.

After the war, at the reorganization of the regi-
ment, he was elected battalion adjutant, and later or-
ganized the Staunton Rifle, becoming captain. This
unit is now Co. L, 116th Inf., Va. N. G.

When the 72nd regiment was reorganized he was
elected colonel, but withdrew before he could be com-
missioned.

Colonel Bumgardner was a staunch supporter of
various veterans’ associations and was at all times
ready to do his part towards making a program for
any group of veterans a success.

He was high in Masonic circles, having reached
one of the highest degrees in Masonry.

He is survived by two children, Mrs. Mary Mar-
garet Laing and Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr., both of
whom were with him at his death.

 

DR. EDWIN PAGE BLEDSOE, ’00

Dr. Edwin Page Bledsoe, 00, superintendent of
Springfield State Hospital, near Baltimore, Maryland,
died August 12, and was buried at Arlington National
Cemetery.

Born in Staunton, Va., in 1880, he attended Wash-

I

Ran ees At RZ Ee ee ee

ington and Lee University and the College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons in Baltimore, a medical school
which later was merged with the University of Mary-
land. He married Miss Margaret McCrum of Lexing-
ton, Va., and is survived by her and by two sons, Page
and Barton Bledsoe, both of whom attended Washing-
ton and Lee.

Dr. Bledsoe saw service over-seas with the Medical
Corps of the United States Army from April, 1918
to January, 1919. For some time after the war he was
in charge of the Veterans’ Bureau Hospital at Little
Rock and later was in the same service in North Chi-
cago. From the North Chicago post he moved to
Baltimore.

Harry Clemmer, ’27, died July 28, 1932, at Staun-
ton, Va.

 

 

Leo V. Judson, *13, attorney on the staff of the
Seaboard Air Line Railway, died September 19, 1932.
Mr. Judson was a native and a life-long resident of
Norfolk, Va. He was an LL.B. of Washington and
Lee.

 

JAMES M. ALLEN, ’85

James McClintock Allen, ’85, died at the Harrison
Memorial Hospital, Cynthiana, Ky., July 25, 1932.

Mr. Allen was born in Paris, Ky., June 25, 1861.
He graduated from Washington and Lee in 1885.
Upon leaving college Mr. Allen taught for five years
in Chamberlain-Hunt Academy at Port Gibson, Miss.
In 1892 he bought the Cynthiana Democrat and con-
tinued as owner and editor of that paper until his death.

Mr. Allen was one of the best known newspaper
men in the state of Kentucky. A forceful writer, al-
ways on the side of the right. The influence of his
editorials was far reaching and he was widely quoted.
Tributes of appreciation appearing in practically every
newspaper in Kentucky testify to the affectionate re-
gard in which Mr. Allen was held by his friends and
associates.

 

J. MERCER BLAIN, 794.

News was received early in September of the
death in China of Rev. Dr. John Mercer Blain, a be-
loved and honored missionary of the Southern Presby-
terian church in China. His station was Hangchow. A
letter received recently by his sister-in-law, Mrs. Ran-
dolph H. Blain of Lexington, came from a summer
resort where he was sojourning. He told that he ex-
pected to return to Hangchow the first of September.
While writing he was in good spirits and apparently in
good health. No particulars of his death have been

received. (Continued on next page)

[ 21 ]

a eee me ey UA ee

I

My mG A eee

 

Mr. Blain had been a missionary in China since
1895. He was a member of the Shanghai volunteer
corps in the Boxer rebellion which terrorized foreigners
in China late in the last century. Mr. Blain was a son
of the Rev. Daniel Blain of the Presbyterian church
and was born in Christiansburg. He was educated
at Washington and Lee where in 1893 he received the
degree of bachelor of arts. He studied theology at
Louisville Theological Seminary. His alma mater,
Washington and Lee later conferred upon him the de-
gree of Doctor of Divinity.

Dr. Blain before going as a missionary to China
married Miss Claude Grier of Harrisburg, N. C. Mrs.
Blain survives him with three children: Mrs. Raymond
Kepler, Hunan Providence, China; Dr. Daniel Blain,
Riggs Sanatorium, Stockbridge, Mass.; Miss Elizabeth
Blain, Concord, N. C. He left four brothers in this
country: S. S. Blain of Roanoke, Dr. Hugh M. Blain
of Tulane university, New Orleans; Rev. R. Waller
Blain of Franklin, Tenn. ; and Rev. Cary R. Blain, D.D.,
of Guerrant, Ky. Another brother, Mr. Randolph H.
Blain, was a resident of Lexington and died a few years
ago.

 

Dr. Edwin Massie Bell, ’18, of Lewisburg, W. Va.,
died August 23, 1932. Dr. Bell was a student at the
University from 1914 to 1918. He was a member of
Beta Theta Pi and Omicron Delta Kappa. He took
his M. D. at the University of Pennsylvania. He mar-
ried Miss Rachel Snyder.

 

 

ALUMNI

Now is the time to send in your subscrip-
tion to THE RING-TUM PHI. The few

back copies will be sent you.

Just clip out the blank below and mail, with

check or money order for $3.10 to

Business Manager,

THE RING-TUM PHI
Lock Drawer 899,
Lexington, Va.

Enclosed find $3.10 for which please send me all
60 issues of the RING-TUM PHI for the collegiate
year.

NAME

ADDRESS

 

 

 

eHOMECOMING®

 

 

 

 

 

When the Generals Meet Virginia Tech

Saturday, October 29

Wilson Field, 2 p.m.

FOR TICKETS WRITE R. A. SMITH, BOX 891

It Will Not be Homecoming Unless You Are Here

 

 

[ 22 |

 

 

 

ome e a 7
on WN Ad
‘ Pea eae ora
Reps ity eh opt
Se Oe A

~
ast

 

* A i
ee . ; 7 * ~
4 _,. ks ee
eal
See 7
A ¢
‘ih ae OAS
rn!

parte.
tnd
I el aw ; < eats ~_
ms ee ° s, \ 7 <n’ ¢ . “ P z mae ©. o
> " oe a mf ray . (a a = aeres. . t ars ue A bi £
ee ee
2 te a J A a> . ill. ere wy 7

: ay
Reg ey
a i: 7 ¥
. Nees “
Wand oak!
+ ae , f

Les

oS

wees
reat eS
ou ttt

tay ae
See 8 Poy ea yes
Pe eae att
Se ease es
= ihe My

Paras

. ——
me Se aN; oe Sete cas
5 SR beeen
~ ef

eo Re.
Roe Po,
~ ye
oak ea, “=
< 7

vy
o
(hd a” de

Pa. gore .

‘ a wt : ¥ ne Konia
SNCs z aaa vn a gf Ae
aie ee a ee BEES Pe ree
atten as opens bt ete f Set Sal atl
"ka ae ee P a

faa

aA

sey ae

of

&S
eo
%
¥ a,

&

, .
wf

-

a iy

wns

oe
ea.
Ma he

ak. a
~~ a fe, fe
Oa ene

“fe ie "

7
—

Poe
=e Z a ares

ve

ef

ODL My eg

* ERAS
Teer bea es
MRA ete

=s

+ et

a
a

J mad a

7 ee
avy

Ars

Os
Fee,

 

 

ee oe

ure Jelling M E Mheyre Udder.

lr YOUR cigarette is mild— that is, not strong, not bitter,
but smokes cool and smooth—then you like it.

If your cigarette tastes right; if it tastes better — that is,
not oversweet; and if it has a pleasing aroma — then you
enjoy it the more.

Everything known to Science is used to make Chesterfield

   

Cigarettes milder and taste better.

   

The right kinds of leaf tobacco— American and Turkish © 1932
LiGGeTt & MYERS

—are blended and cross-blended. That’s why “They Satisfy.” Tomacce ta

