WASHINGTON & LER UN
ix _rPr UNIV? rary ¥

r oo TA) rss +
. {vs

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

December
1936

Vol. XII, No. 2
$2.50 a year

 

 

 

 

Would You Stop
To Peel a Grape?

No. probably not. But you do stop to read
your copy of The cAlumni Magazine or you

wouldn’t be looking at this page.

We don’t need to advertise to interest YOU
in The cAlumni Magazine. Undoubtedly, you
know a fellow alumnus who has not invested
in a subscription to this publication. Tell your
friend how he may obtain a year of enjoy-

ment for only $2.50.

The Alumni Association needs his support
and he should invest in news of the affairs of

his alma mater.

Better still, give him a subscription for

, Uy Christmas!

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI
INCORPORATED

 

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 30 N. Michigan Ave.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagerstown,
Maryland.

Dallas, Texas

Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla,
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Lathem, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.
Louisville, Kentucky

E. A. Dodd, Louisville Trust Building.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Joe E. Birnie, 800 E. Main Street.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of Southern Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

Vol. XII DECEMBER 1936 No. 2
ite is Fae Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor................. .C, Harotp Lauck

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

nos, séceccacs es, CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
re Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
IY 321.5. danse set M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Lewis F. Powk.r, 1929
Kr WittiamMs, 1915
H. H. LArtmore, 1896
NorMAN FitzHucGH, 1898

 

 

 

Contents for December 1936

PAGE
Remembrance of Things Past (The President’s Page)........ -_
Forty-two Years at Washington and Lee.........00000.0000.0000000..... 4
Educators Honor James H. Dillard...............00....0.....c. 7
Records Broken at S. I. P. A. Convention..............00000000... 9
Three Important Portraits........ Vile ces Cee te tia... 10
‘Rocky’ Holt, New Governor of West Virginia.................... 11
Another Siicvessfub. Flomecoming. :...0.5...i0506..80iicci ec eccccese ee. 13
Sports Resume and Winter Prospects..................00..cccccceeee 15
Racal Alumni agpocemsion Notes. 5556.0... ii iidiss ccs cccccaccesaseee. 17
Chats With Your Friends and Mime...................00000cceee 19

Cae DOU. oii..sasca esis ica t ee Ie er LR cs dcins bas cae 21

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Remembrance of Things Past

(The President’s Page)

ECENTLY an alumnus, who did not sign his name,

sent me a sheet of a Louisville paper containing a
picture of ‘“Buckpond,” home of Louis Marshall, presi-
dent of this institution from 1830 to 1834. I was grateful
for the picture and have clipped it to the ma-
terial relating to President Marshall in our his-

torical papers. * * *

The beloved Dr. W. E. Dold, one of the
most loyal of the sons of this institution, has
recently contributed a beautiful photographic
arrangement of General Lee and his faculty.

*K a ok

One of our present students, Arch Sproul,
of Augusta county, brought me some exciting
information concerning a diary and other pa-
pers belonging to a trustee of the first half of
the last century, a distinguished man whose genius in
keeping records was exceptional. We are making an ef-
fort to get for our files such parts of these papers as
relate to the Washington College of that time.

x *x« *

These and other such incidents that I might relate are
of interest now in preserving the history of the institu-
tion and will be increasingly important as the years pass.
The chronicle of Washington and Lee is one of the long-
est in the annals of American education. It has a pecu-
liar penetration into contemporary developments of Am-
erican life and it has a peculiar richness in the quality of
alumni and friends. To tell adequately the story of this
school would be to disclose a memorable chapter in the
history of our civilization and to reveal heartening en-
couragements and sacrifices, through nearly two cen-
turies, by a host of distinguished personalities.

* * *

Yet Washington and Lee is deficient in the source
materials of its own past. A historian who might seek
now to record accurately this story would find uncom-
mon difficulty in covering some of the periods. Many of
the articles that appear from time to time fail to do jus-
tice to this institution; for example, certain biographical
sketches in the recent Dictionary of American Biography
about our alumni of the earlier days manifest striking
ignorance of this institution’s standing; but unless we
have the definitive records, we can hardly challenge the
writers.

 

Of course, we shall always have difficulty in securing
the full story of the 18th century days of the University.
The fire that destroyed Liberty Hall, just before the
school moved to the present site, seems to have annihi-
lated all records of the preceding fifty years.
It was several decades later that somebody
moved to collect information, largely from the
memory of alumni of the old school then liv-
ing. At best, our chronicles carry notes on only
153 alumni between 1749 and 1800.

x *«* *

But if the present alumni of the University
were to become deeply concerned about discov-
ering and preserving the records of the entire
past, all of the 18th century that could be found
and everything of the 19th century, we could
compile most of the impressive history.

*x* * *

lor some time, the local officials were almost hesitant
in making this request because the facilities of the Uni-
versity were not fire-proof. That condition no longer ex-
ists. Any alumnus or friend can now forward material,
however precious, with the assurance that it will not be
destroyed by fire.

a a.

We can appeal only to the pure generosity of the sons
of this University. We do not have funds to go out and
buy old manuscripts or papers, as do many of the richly
endowed universities. But we do feel that this kind of an
appeal should strike a responsive chord in the heart of
those who love Washington and Lee.

x %*«* *

Is it too much to hope that every alumnus will be
alert and gracious in an effort to help his Alma Mater
accumulate its own story? An old newspaper, manuscript,
letter, pamphlet, photograph, or item of any nature re-
lating to any phase of the history of the University, or
to the individuals concerned in this history, will prove a
contribution of undoubted value and will be received
with lasting gratitude.

Sidhe: [s. CT. ee

“er

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Forty-two Years at Washington and Lee

By Parke Rouse, JR., 1937

— SAT in the living room of Dr. Howe’s home, one

of the four ancient colonial dwellings that flank
the Washington College group of the University. It was
a gray Sunday afternoon in November, and through the
spacious windows fronting the campus we could see stu-
dents and Cadets hurrying past on their way to Mc-
Crum’s, the Student Union, or other haunts. As we
watched we could not fail to observe the friendly greet-
ings that passed between students of the two neighboring
schools, V. M. I. and W. and L.

“That is the finest thing about the University,” said
Dr. Howe, motioning towards the passing students. “In
the forty-two years. I have been at Washington and Lee,
| have never failed to marvel at the friendliness which
prevails on the campus. Boys come here from all over
the country, and without ever having seen each other
before, they immediately develop a friendship and de-
mocracy that is remarkable. Every boy who stays here
any time becomes imbued with it, and it makes him a
better man. It is the spirit of Robert E. Lee, and I am
proud to say it is as strong today as it was the day I

’

came here.”

In those forty-two intervening years Dr. Howe has
watched the University grow from a school of 125 stu-
dents to one of 940; has seen five presidents hold office,
and thousands of students enter and graduate. He has
watched the physical entity of Washington and Lee ex-
pand to include Newcomb Hall, the dormitories, Dore-
mus gymnasium, Reid Hall, the Chemistry building,
Tucker Hall, and the Student Union. But he believes
that there is the identical atmosphere of congeniality, the
same regard of personal honor and honesty, that he found
in the little school into whose midst he came on the sec-
ond of January, 1894.

Dr. and Mrs. Howe, after forty-two years, still
like to recall Lexington and the University as they found
it then. General Custis Lee was president, and about him
was clustered a little knot of brilliant scholars. The Uni-
versity in those days offered doctorates of philosophy,
which Dr. Howe believes did a great deal to promote
scholarship and research among the faculty and_ stu-
dents. John I. Campbell was treasurer and registrar,
and in addition performed most of the functions now
devolving on the clerk of the board of trustees and of
the faculty. At the head of the law school was the fam-
ous John Randolph Tucker, whose right-hand man was
Charles A. Graves, later dean of the law school at the

[ 4

University of Virginia. Youngest of the pedagogues was
young “Harry” Campbell, whose death in 1934 ended
a forty-year intimacy between the two scientists and next
door neighbors.

The Howe’s found Lexington of 1895 a delightful
community, although it was somewhat rustic. Mrs. Howe
was especially amazed to find that none of the houses
had bath rooms. A plumber was called to the rescue,
and a bath room, second in Lexington only to Custis
Lee’s, was installed. They occupy the same house today,
decorated and enhanced by art objects and memorabilia
they have collected through the years. Most highly prized
is the pair of brass andirons of General Lee’s that Pres-
ident G. W. Custis Lee gave Mrs. Howe. On the mantel
stand two handsome porcelain vases, which Canadian ex-
port authorities once accused Dr. Howe of purloining,
until Mrs. Howe indignantly reminded them her husband
was “an elder in the Presbyterian church!” That settled
it. Dr. Howe and the vases were unmolested.

One of the first experiences which young Dr. Howe
had on this campus was that of preventing Washington
and Lee from becoming co-educational. The trustees had
referred to the faculty the question of admitting young
women. ‘The vote was tied when it came to Professor
Howe—the last to vote. Fortunately, the new professor,
a graduate of Amherst, was convinced (and still is) that
the function of educating young men is best performed
in the small, independent, non-coeducational institution.
About the same time Dr. Howe radically changed the
method of teaching chemistry at Washington and Lee by
abolishing the first-year theoretical course, which was
taught without laboratory work, and the applied chem-
istry course, which was taught without class-room lec-
tures. Instead, he made each course a practical synthesis
of lectures and laboratory work, a system later adopted
by the University of Virginia and other schools.

Most conspicuous among scholastic changes that
“Daddy” Howe has seen take place is the tightening of
entrance requirements. During the post-bellum days of
Custis Lee, nothing was asked of a prospective student
except that he “wear trousers and be white,” he recalls.
The South remained impoverished from the ravages of
the recent war, and new, low-tuition state institutions
were springing up like mushrooms all over the country.
Young men could ill afford to come to Lexington from
everywhere, as they had once done. They went instead
to the new schools. Washington and Lee had difficulty

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

attracting students and maintaining its high standards.

But of the men who came in those harum-scarum
days, “Daddy” Howe is confident that just as many at-
tained eminence, just as large a percentage made val-
uable or even eminent citizens as today. In fact, one of
the faults which the Doctor has to find with modern ed-
ucation is that the improvement in the training of stu-
dents is not commensurate with the increased facilities
available. One other is that
the current emphasis on
teaching has minimized the
importance of research and
stunted scholarship. But
he has great faith in the
curriculum as now devel-
oped. “The theoretical idea
of a man’s having a cer-
tain amount of work in
each of the four divisions
of learning and _ specializ-
ing in one of those fields
is a fine educational pro-
cedure,” he feels.

His enthusiasm for his
students—and all those
who have studied under
him come in that cate-
gory—transcends the lim-
its of the campus. As we
talked that Sunday after-
noon in the Howe’s living
room, he told us he had
just arrived that morning
from New York, where
he had addressed some 50
alumni at the Ambassador
hotel. “The amazing thing
about those men,” he peer-
intently through his
glasses—‘‘is their bond of
to the Univer-
sity, although they are of
all ages and few of them attended the University to-
gether.”” But wherever he sees alumni he notes one char-
acteristic that is unanimous—they are all substantial cit-
izens. “Cy Young pointed that out to me once several
months ago, and I have observed it especially since that
time.”’ The exploits of chemists who have studied under
him fill him with particular pride, and he follows their
careers closely.

ed

devotion

Visiting alumni and presiding over the chemistry de-
partment are just two items on Dr. Howe's calendar.
Kvery Sunday morning he conducts a student class at
the Presbyterian church, and every Thursday he sits as

 

Dr. James Lewis Howe

a member of the Lexington town council. He is an elder
in the church, chairman of the finance committee of the
township, former president of the Lexington Kiwanis
club, past lieutenant-governor of the Capital District of
Kiwanis, and director and for many years president of
the Peoples National Bank of Lexington. He is one of
the freshman advisers, and every freshman camp finds
him an enthusiastic and valuable counselor. In fact, he
thinks the camp “one of
the finest things we have,”
and adds: “I wish every
freshman could attend.”
In forty-two
which

these
years during
“Daddy” Howe and the
University have been in-
separable, nothing that has
happened, in his opinion,
was more exciting than
the burning of the old
Tucker Hall on the night
of December 16, 1934. A
scant 50 feet of ground
separated the grey lime-
stone walls of the old law
building from the rear of
the Howe's house, and
more than once it looked
to them as though their
abode would be the next
to go. To this day Dr.
Howe believes that only
his garden hose, sprayed
continuously on the house

by two of his students,
saved it from igniting.

When steam began to is-
sue from the nozzle, be-
cause of the heat on the
water mains underground,
the Doctor was about to
call on a squad of V. M. I.
cadets, who kindly offered their services, to remove the
furnishings. The timely arrival of the Buena Vista fire
department alone prevented it.

“Daddy” Howe has known every president of the
University since Custis Lee intimately, and he speaks of
them all with fond and reverent recollections : the kindly,
modest Custis; the popular William Lyne Wilson; the
astute George H. Denny; and the scholarly Henry Louis
Smith. But he has the most unbounded enthusiasm for
the present incumbent. “Splendid,” he calls him. “Dr.
Gaines takes the faculty into his confidence on all mat-
ters pertaining to the University. That creates harmony

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and co-operation among the staff of the University. It is
democracy in education, and it is as it should be.”

Dr. Howe has spent only one year away from the
University campus, the winter of 1921-22, when he was
in the hospital. “They couldn’t find anything wrong with
me,” he says, ‘so I concluded I was well and came back
to work.”’ But his career before 1895, when he first came
to Lexington, was a strenuously peripatetic one. Born
in Newburyport, Mass., in 1859, he went to Amherst
College sixteen years later. After graduating there in
1880, he went to the University of Goettingen, Germany
and later to the University of Berlin, and emerged with
an A.M. and Ph. D. in 1882. He was married to Mrs.
Howe the next year, and
they have three children,
all grown now. After his
marriage, he became pro-
fessor of chemistry at
Central University, of
Kentucky, for four years,
leaving there to accept a

: J TH
fea =f “~

—
~--—— —S

. a

will, however, wax enthusiastic over the merits of the
cold shower. He begins every day with one, and he
ascribes his excellent health in part to the practice. Every-
one who has attended freshman camp is familiar with
the spectacle of “Daddy” Howe, draped in a huge Turk-
ish towel, making his way to the showers at six o'clock
in the morning, with the chill mountain air of camp
Powhatan registering 40 degrees, or thereabout. He has
also a collection of about 35,000 postage stamps, and is
especially interested in the post marks on the stamps of
the German colonies. An exhibit from this specialized
collection was awarded the blue ribbon at a recent ex-
hibition of the Virginia Philatelic Federation.

- With all his 77 years,
“Daddy” is still keenly
alive to the ever-changing
environment of the Uni-
versity and the world of
which he is a part. He
still has goals to achieve
and a great enthusiasm

 

position of scientist and

for achieving them. Right

 

lecturer for the Polytech-
nic Society of Kentucky
and Dean of the Hospital
College of Medicine in
Louisville. Eight years
later he resigned to come
to Washington and Lee
University.

The scientific world
has liberally bestowed its
laurels upon the Univer-
sity’s senior pedagogue.
He is a fellow of the
American Association for Advancement of Science, in
which he has held numerous offices; member of the
American Chemical Society; former president of the
Virginia Academy of Science; member of the Chemical
Society of London, the Society of the Chemical Industry,
the Washington Academy of Sciences, Deutsche Chem-
ische Gesellschaft, and other learned societies too num-
erous for particularization. He is internationally recog-
nized as an authority on platinum and related metals,
and is the author of A Bibliograph of the Metals of the
Platinum Group, and Inorganic Chemistry According to
the Periodic Law, (with Francis Preston Venable). The
latter, revised as Inorganic Chenustry for Schools and
Colleges, is now in use as a textbook at Washington and
lee and other institutions. He has also written A Brief
History of Missions, and helped edit the hymnal now in
use in the Presbyterian church.

Dr. Howe won't talk about his honors: one has to go
to his wife and Who’s Who for an account of them. He

 

‘now the most pressing
physical need of the Uni-
versity, he feels, is a
science assembly hall,
which was originally plan-
ned as a part of the Chem-
istry building. He wants to
see the chemistry curricu-
lum built up to its highest
effectiveness, and just this
term he has added a course
in the history of chemical
thought. In years to come
he would like to see the University acquire a more liberal
endowment “to allow the institution more financial free-
dom.” And some day soon, he hopes to teach the grand-
son of one of his first students. He’s taught fathers and
sons, but never three generations of Washington and
Lee men. That, he says, would make life complete.

 

. ° ° . .

Preparing History of Virginia
Marruew Pack AnprREws, 1901, is engaged in pre-
paring for the Virginia History Committee a general
and comprehensive history of Virginia. It is to be an up-
to-date narrative of the Old Dominion which the com-
mittee hopes will “be respected by scholars, seem ‘read-
able’ to the average citizen, be referred to by students,
and recommended by librarians.” The author has received
from a number of sources a great deal of original ma-
terial which has never been printed. The proposed vol-

ume is to be entitled “Virginia, the Old Dominion.”

93

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Educators Honor

EADING educators of both North and South joined

Charlottesville civic organizations October 26 in
paying tribute to Dr. James Hardy Dillard, 1876, at a
testimonial dinner, sponsored by the Charlottesville
Chamber of Commerce, honoring the 80-year-old alum-
nus for his service to education and for his devotion to
the cause of uplifting the

James H. Dillard

by Professor Kremer J. Hoke, dean of the college. Others
who joined in paying tribute to Dr. Dillard included:
Dr. Anson Phelps Stokes, canon of Washington Cathe-
dral, president of the Phelps Stokes Foundation and a
member of the General Education Board of the Rocke-
feller Foundation; Thomas Jesse Jones of New York,

sociologist and education-

 

negro. Dr. Dillard was
presented with a silver
pitcher, the gift of var-
ious Civic organizations,
in recognition of his
noteworthy work. ‘The
affair followed his eigh-
tieth birthday on the pre-
ceding Saturday.

John Stewart Bryan,
president of the College
of William and Mary,
said in an address read
by Charles J. Duke, his
assistant, that Dr. Dil-
lard’s chief accomplish-
ment had been “to re-
lease a new tide of ener-
gy and faith and works.”

“He has laid waste
no country and pointed
to a desert as his claim
to immortality,” Mr.
Bryan, who was prevent-
ed from attending by ill-
continued in his
message. “The little gar-
den, the rural school, the
freshly painted cottage,

ness,

 

 

al director of the Phelps
Stokes Fund; Will Win-
ton Alexander of At-
lanta, advisory secretary
of the committee on the
church and racial rela-
tions, Federal Council of
Churches of Christ in
America; Dr. Arthur D.
Wright of Washington,
president of the John F.
Slater Fund; and Dr. J.
D. Eggleston, president
of Hampden-Sydney col-
lege.

The General Educa-
tion Board was _ repre-
sented by Leo M. Favrot
of Baton Rouge, La., and
Jackson Davis of New
York, associate director
of education.

Said Dr. Stokes in
part: “I have known Dr.
Dillard for about thirty
years ... I know of few
men of his generation
who have rendered a
more important service.”

 

 

the colored children
learning the difficult art of handicraft, a whole race prac-
ticing that most exacting of all human tasks—the art of
learning to live and to govern itself—these are his mon-
uments, and these are his achievements.

“He,” said Mr. Bryan, “went out on what seemed
to be a hopeless quest-—giving the South a square deal.

“I say the South because the men who baited the ne-
groes and harassed and oppressed and lynched them were
lynching their own souls and destroying their own civi-
lization, though they knew it not.”

The Williamsburg institution was also represented

Letters expressing
regret at being unable to be present at the dinner were
read from George Foster Peabody, retired New York
banker and trustee of the American Church Institute for
Negroes and of the Georgia Warm Springs Foundation ;
Dr. Raymond D. Fosdick of New York, president of the
General Education Board; Edwin Rogers Embree of
Chicago, president of the Julius Rosenwald Fund, which
has specialized in the study of negro education and rela-
tions of negroes and whites; Dr. Frederick Paul Keppel
of New York, president of the Carnegie Corporation ;
and the Rt. Rev. H. St. George Tucker, bishop of the

Peay

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

Diocese of Virginia. Other letters were read from Govy-
ernor George C. Peery of Virginia; Dr. Henry $. Prit-
chett of Santa Barbara, Calif., former president of the
Carnegie Foundation ; John M. Glenn of New York, for-
mer director of the Sage Foundation; Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, president of Washington and Lee; Charles E.
Diehl of Southwestern, the College of the Mississippi
Valley at Memphis, Tenn.; Dr. Samuel C. Mitchell of
the University of Richmond; Colonel William H. Hun-
ley of Virginia Military Institute; Paul M. Pearson of
the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works ;
and Walter G. Mapp, Accomac ( Va.) attorney.

“Dr. Dillard is one of the outstanding characters in
education work in the South,” wrote Governor Peery
of his fellow alumnus. “He has rendered special service
to the cause of education in Virginia . . . My heartiest
greetings and felicitations to Dr. Dillard.”

Dr. Dillard “has rendered a notable service in our
country not only to the cause of formal education, but
also to the development of a better understanding be-
tween the various groups that make up our citizenship,”
Dr. Pritchett’s message said in part.

Edwin R. Embree’s letter declared that “Dr. James
H. Dillard is the dean of us all. Every one working in
education, especially education in behalf of negroes,
takes a large part of his inspiration from Dr. Dillard.
He is the ideal of the Southern Christian gentleman . . .”

Dr. Raymond D. Fosdick: “I know of few men who
have made so positive and so permanent a contribution
to American education. Eighty years is a ripe age, but
Dr. Dillard’s work will endure many times that figure.”

Bishop Tucker said: “Dr. Dillard’s service in the
cause of education and particularly the work he has done
in connection with the Jeanes and Slater Funds for the
betterment of education among the negroes in the South
deserves the gratitude of every one who ds interested in
the welfare of human society.”

“For his great heart and brain; his services to hu-
manity and scholarship; the integrity of his life and the
gracious charm of his personality, he richly deserves
such an honor,” wrote Colonel Hunley of V. M. I.

The man who was the subject of more than a score of
such glowing tributes, a native of Nansemond county,
Va., was educated at Washington and Lee university,
where he received his M. A., B. L., and D. Litt. degrees
in 1876, 1877, and 1889 respectively, and where he served
one session as assistant professor of mathematics. The
honorary LL. D. degree was conferred upon him by Tu-
lane university in 1908; by Harvard in 1923; and by
Southwestern in 1932. He was awarded a D.C. L. by
the University of the South in 1910.

After serving as principal of the Rodman School,
Norfolk, Va., 1877-82, teaching at Norfolk Academy,
1882-87, and at Mary Institute, Washington university,

St. Louis, from 1887 to 1891, he went to New Orleans
where, from 1891 to 1907, he was professor of Latin at

Tulane university, serving also as dean of the academic
college from 1904 to 1907.

Dr. Dillard left Tulane in 1907 to become president
of the Jeanes Foundation, a fund of $1,000,000 given
by a resident of Philadelphia to help the rudimentary
schools for colored people in the South. Setting imme-
diately about his task of improving the condition of the
negro, he soon won recognition for the work he was do-
ing, and in 1910 was appointed director of the John F.
Slater Fund, contributed to aid the colored program.

As attention was attracted to the progress being made
and to the need for additional financial resources, the
joint funds began to grow, and soon the General Edu-
cation Board gave about twice the amount of the interest
on the Jeanes Fund. Dr. Dillard placed visiting teachers
in as many counties of the South as possible, in order
to make the colored schools practical and to fit them into
the community. At first it was necessary that their sal-
aries be paid by the Fund.

Soon, however, his efforts bore fruit. The counties,
realizing the importance of what was being done, began
to share the burden. Later many states became interested,
took up the plan. Individual contributions swelled the
funds, but the main budget was soon being supplied by
public taxation, as the communities recognized the wor-
thiness of the project.

The work of Dr. Dillard soon attracted international
attention, and several years ago the British government
requested him to go to Africa and advise on the best
means of administering the schools for natives there. As
a result there are “Jeanes teachers” in England’s African
colonies and also in British Guinea.

Heartened by the success of the work under Dr. Dil-
lard’s leadership, a group of wealthy men built in New
Orleans a university for negroes, naming it in honor of
the Virginia scholar.

In addition to his work with the Jeanes and Slater
funds, Dr. Dillard has been active in many other fields
of public service. He has been vice-president of the
Phelps Stokes Fund; president of the National Confer-
ence of Church Clubs; a member of the New Orleans
Free Kindergarten association; of the New Orleans
Public Library; the Louisiana State Board of Educa-
tion: the Southern Educational Board; the Board of
Administration, Tulane university; the General Educa-
tion Board: a trustee of the General Theological Sem-
inary ; and rector of the College of William and Mary.

In 1928 he was awarded a gold medal and $500 by
the Harmon Foundation of New York “for promoting
good relations between the races and for activity in-
creasing educational facilities for negroes in the South.”

ke 4

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Records Broken at S. 1. P. A. Convention

By Roserr P. Anverson, Publicity Director

URING Friday and Saturday, November 20 and 21,

the Washington and lee campus was overrun with
a crowd of 250 high and preparatory school students,
guests of the Lee School of Journalism at the twelfth
annual convention of the Southern Interscholastic Press
Association.

Representing more than 50 schools from 13 states
and the District of Columbia, this large number of dele-
gates broke all past records for attendance at the con-
vention. According to Professor O. W. Riegel, head of
the Journalism Department and director of the S. I. P. A,,.
this year’s total exceeded by 75 the record of 175 set up
a year ago.

Accompanied by their faculty advisers, the young
journalists crowded into Lee Chapel Friday afternoon
to hear talks by A. A. Lubersky, vice-president of the
5S. K. Smith Company of Chicago and an authority on
annuals, who told them how to make better year books ;
and W. C. Stouffer, managing editor of the Roanoke
World-News, who talked on ““Newspaper Makeup.”

After a banquet at the Robert E. Lee Hotel Friday
evening, the delegates again assembled in Lee Chapel to
hear an address by Raymond Clapper, Washington po-
litical columnist for the Scripps-Howard Newspaper AI-
liance. Mr. Clapper stated that, because minority repre-
sentation has practically disappeared from Washington
as a result of the recent elections, a new opportunity has
been opened up for the press of the country to “test ad-
ministration policies under the searchlight of debate and
criticism.” The columnist related some of his exper-
iences as a political writer, and, at the conclusion of his
speech, the delegates returned to the

Vy
hotel for a dance. : “yy
On Saturday morning, the youth- hie
ful editors listened to talks by How- ee
. . ~
ard Blakeslee, Science Editor of the “weer

Associated Press, and Edward

S. ei?» +f
Stanley, executive assistant of the - fi oe

A.P. Mr. Blakeslee told of his ex- ~° We 38s
periences in covering science discov- _ eS
eries for the papers, and Mr. Stanley hes
talked on “Pictorial Journalism” and
the need for better photographers on

  

   

 

sions of their publications. Professor Riegel and R. P.
Anderson, instructor in journalism and publicity direc-
tor, assisted by Latham Weber, editor of The Ring-tum
Phi, headed the discussion of newspapers. C. Harold
Lauck, director of the Laboratory Press of the Journal-
ism Department, talked with the delegates about their
annuals, and Cowl Rider, editor of The Southern Col-
legian, discussed with the delegates the problems of pro-
ducing a magazine.

The campus seemed deserted Saturday afternoon
when all the delegates went to see Natural Bridge.

The two-day press conference ended Saturday night
with a banquet at the Robert E. Lee Hotel. Professor
Riegel was toastmaster and awarded cups and medals to
the best publications in the three types represented, news-
papers, magazines, and annuals. Prizes were also given
to two boys who tied for first place in a Current Events
Contest in which the contestants had to identify 50
names of places and persons prominent in the news with-
in the last three months.

Dr. P. R. Cole, visiting Carnegie professor of in-
ternational relations, pointed out that “the pen is mightier
than the sword in a domocracy.” He deplored the Euro-
pean situation wherein the press is censored in many
countries and concluded that upon the vast power of the
democratic press depends in large measure the safety of
nations and the happiness of individuals.

President Gaines, in a stirring address, praised the
vision of Robert EK. Lee in establishing at Washington
and Lee the first collegiate instruction in journalism not
only in the South but in the world. Dr. Gaines stated

that General Lee intended that stu-

dents should acquire a well-rounded

education with their instruction in

D4 journalism so that in rebuilding the

7 South, journalists of the highest in-

telligence and training would be

available to the Southern newspaper
editors.

Dr. Gaines went on to praise the
freedom of the press which still ex-
ists in this country, although it has
been curtailed in many countries

    
 

the staffs of newspapers. ~ Pee eS abroad. “It may come to pass,” con-

The delegates assembled in the SS cluded Dr. Gaines, “that upon this
new Journalism rooms in Payne Hall SS Ney us = fn freedom of the press may depend the
at noon to hear round table discus- ~*~ 4 safety of all our liberties.”

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Prominent Young Banker

Joseru E. Birnie, 1924, president of the Washing-
ton and Lee alumni club of Richmond, although just 33,
has already attained national prominence in banking.

He is executive
secretary and treas-
urer of the Morris
Plan Bankers Asso-
ciation, Inc. Articles
written by him for
Burroughs Clearing
House Magazine,

Bankers Magazine,
and Rand-McNally
Bankers Monthly

have attracted con-
siderable attention
in the banking world,
as have addresses
made by him before
recent national con-
ventions of the Am-
erican Institute of
Banking.

Graduating from Washington and Lee in 1924 after
transferring from Furman university, he immediately
engaged in commercial banking in Florida. In 1928 he
became assistant cashier of the Morris Plan Bank at
Richmond, holding this position until 1932 when he was
named cashier of the Morris Plan Bank at Petersburg.

Mr. Birnie is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Country Club of Virginia, and the Commonwealth Club.
He is a native of Greenville, S. C.

 

Joseph E. Birnie, 1924

 

Three Important Portraits

WueEN Rockbridge county was recently presented
with portraits of three men prominent in its history, the
ceremonies took on the aspects of an all-Washington and
Lee affair. The portraits were of Governor John Letcher
and General FE. Frank Paxton, distinguished alumni, and
Judge Brockenbrough, founder of the School of Law.

The participants in the ceremonies were exclusively
Washington and Lee men. Dr. William H. Moreland,
1906, dean of the law school, presented the portrait of
Judge Brockenbrough; and Stuart Moore, 1915, a mem-
ber of the Lexington bar, presented that of General Pax-
ton. Captain Greenlee D. Letcher, 1888, also a member
of the Lexington bar, presided, and Joseph A. Glasgow,
1891, judge of the Rockbridge county circuit court, ac-
cepted the portraits on behalf of the county.

John Letcher, a native of Rockbridge county, grad-
uated from Washington college in 1833 and soon en-
gaged in the practice of law in Lexington. Politics, how-
ever, then attracted his talents, and a large part of his
life was spent in the public service. He served as a mem-
ber of Congress from 1851-59; became governor of Vir-
ginia in 1860 and held this position throughout most of
the Civil War. The portrait of Governor Letcher just
received by the county will replace one until recently
hanging on the wall of the courtroom. There was no for-
mal ceremony in connection with its presentation.

Judge Brockenbrough, judge of the U. S. district
court for Western Virginia, in 1849 founded the Lex-
ington law school, which in 1867 became affiliated with
Washington college during Lee’s presidency, the judge
becoming its first professor. It was Judge Brocken-
brough, who, as chairman of the Board of Trustees of
the college, carried to General Robert E. Lee the invita-
tion to become president of the impoverished institution.
He resigned his professorship in 1873 at the age of 67,
dying four years later.

General Paxton, a graduate of Washington college
in the class of 1847, was a prominent figure in pre-war
Lexington. Lawyer, farmer, president of the Bank of
Rockbridge and of the County Fair, he played an active
part in community affairs until the outbreak of the War
Between the States, during which he rose to the rank of
Brigadier General in command of the Stonewall Bri-
gade, C. S. A. He was fatally wounded at the Battle of
Chancellorsville, where his commander, Stonewall Jack-
son, also met his death.

A resolution was recently adopted by the Lexington
town council requesting the W.P.A. to have painted
another portrait of Judge Brockenbrough, to be hung
in the law library of the University.

 

James H. Price, 1909, Lieutenant-Governor of Vir-
ginia, delivered the dedicatory address at the unveiling
of a new monument in Patrick Henry county to General
J. E. B. Stuart. Lieutenant-Governor Price paid high
tribute to the colorful and picturesque hero of the War
Between the States, and cited General Lee’s tribute to
General Stuart in which he referred to him as “the ideal
soldier.”

 

SEVERAL Washington and Lee men were elected to
important offices during the recent political campaign.
No definite tabulation of successful candidates has been
made but two were victorious in Virginia. In the sixth
Congressional district, Clifford A. Woodrum, 1909, de-
feated ‘IT. X. Parsons, 1921, for Congressman, while
John W. Flannigan, 1907, was elected Congressman from
the ninth Congressional district.

[ 10 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

‘Rocky’ Holt, New Governor of West Virginia

By Rosert P. ANDERSON

ASHINGTON AND LEE students and alumni at the

Homecoming game with V. P. I. on November
7, focused their eyes on the president’s box where, be-
sides Dr. Gaines and Senator Carter Glass, sat Homer
A. (Rocky) Holt, who,
four days earlier, be-
came the ninth Democrat
to be elected to the gov-
ernorship of West Vir-
ginia.

To those who know
him, Rocky Holt’s elec-
tion came as no surprise.
Following family prece-
dent, it was_ traditional
for him to have chosen
the pursuit of law and to
have become prominent
in the history and devel-
opment of West Vir-
ginia. On one side of his
family he had the ex-
ample of his grandfather,
Homer A. Holt, first a
Circuit and later a Dis-
trict Judge of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals.
rom his mother’s side
he inherited the ability
of his grandfather, J. M.
McWhorter, the beloved
Judge of the southeast-
ern Judicial Circuit of
the state for many years.

Rocky Holt was born
March 1, 1898, in Lew-
West Virginia,
where, during his early
youth, he attended the
local schools. In June,
1915, he graduated with high honors from Greenbrier
Military School and the following fall entered Washing-
ton and Lee.

isburg,

Mr. Holt’s brilliant scholastic record as well as his
numerous extra-curricular activities here at Washington
and Lee proved to be indicative of his later professional
accomplishments. He was president of the student body

 

Homer A. (Rocky) Holt, 1918

and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Besides being initiated
into Phi Kappa Psi, he became a member of all honor-
ary societies to which he was a member of all honorary
societies to which he was eligible, namely: Pan, C. C.,
Square and Compass,
Phi Delta Phi, Sigma,
O. D. K., and “13” club.
In 1918, he graduated
with an A. B. degree and
later, in 1923, received
the degree of LL. B.

Rocky Holt served as
a lieutenant of the Coast
Artillery during the War
and, after graduation, re-
turned to Washington
and Lee, first, as an in-
structor in mathematics
and later as a professor
of law. While teaching
law here, he was married
to Miss Isabel Hodges
Wood, of Charlottesville,
Virginia. They have two
children.

After two years of
teaching law, Mr. Holt
entered actual practice in
Fayettesville, West Vir-
ginia. Here, his high eth-
ical standards and prac-
tices won for him the
esteem of judges and
lawyers alike. The state
came to regard him as
one of the most success-
ful and forceful men in
his profession. Besides
the numerous cases in
State and Federal courts,
he has prepared, tried, and argued seven cases for West
Virginia in the United States Supreme Court, six of
which he has won and the seventh of which is pending
decision.

Mr. Holt entered the race for Attorney General of
West Virginia in 1932. Nominated over three strong
contestants, he was elected by a large majority and be-

[ 11 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

came the eighth Democrat to hold that office in the state.
His brilliant record as Attorney General made him a
logical candidate for the governorship.

On November third, with very little opposition, Rocky
Holt became the third Democrat since the turn of the
century to successfully stem the tide of a long line of
Republican governors.

 

Elected Attorney General

CLARENCE W. (Fats) Mrapows, Prosecuting At-
torney of Raleigh county, West Virginia, was elected At-
torney General of West Virginia, to succeed Homer A.
Holt, A.B., 1918,
LL. B., 1923, who, in
the same election, was
chosen Governor of
West Virginia.

Born in Beckley,
W. Va., February 11,
1904, Mr. Meadows
attended the high
schools of Beckley,
from which he grad-
uated. He then attend-
ed Georgia Military
Academy, College
Park, Georgia, and on
graduation entered
Washington and Lee
University where he
was a student from
1921 to 1926. Later
he graduated with the degree of LL. B. from the Uni-
versity of Alabama Law School.

He practiced law for two years in Birmingham, Ala.,
afterwards returning to his home town, Beckley, where
he has engaged in the practice of law. Mr. Meadows was
elected to the State Legislature of West Virginia in 1930,
served in the regular and extra sessions of 1931 and the
extraordinary session of 1932. He was elected Prosecut-
ing Attorney of Raleigh county, W. Va., 1932, which
term of office will expire December 31, 1936. Elected
Attorney General, State of West Virginia, November 53,
1936, and will take office January 18, 1937.

Mr. Meadows was married to Nancy Ryals Massie,
of Clifton Forge, Va., April 27, 1935, and lives at Num-
ber 1, Fairview Apartment, Beckley, W. Va.

He was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at
Washington and Lee, and also of Phi Alpha Delta, legal
fraternity ; member 13 Club and White Friars. Alumni
of this period will recall that he was the leader of Fancy
Dress in 1925.

 

 

C. W. Meadows, 1926

 

 

 

A New Jersey State Senator

Ir HAS taken sixty years to elect a Democratic State
Senator from Atlantic City. This honor was bestowed
upon alumnus William H. Smathers of the class of 1914.
Mr. Smathers is now 45. He became the youngest com-
mon pleas judge in New Jersey when he had just turned
31. He was born in North Carolina and went north at
19 after taking law at Washington and Lee.

Mr. Smathers likes to shoot ducks on the wing with
a pistol, dislikes the sales taxes, is widely known as a
dog fancier and a cause for many gangsters steering
clear of Atlantic City. He talks with a Southern drawl
and admits “hankerin’ to live in the backwoods.” But
need for more money keeps him away from the farm.
Stiff sentences as judge made him the target of violence
threats, so carried a pistol, saying he was “‘itchin’” to
use it on “any mug with twitchy fingers,’ climaxed elec-
tion campaign, charging “Wall Street money” was buy-
ing votes . . . expected to oppose tax increase and favor
government economy.

While at Washington and Lee Mr. Smathers was a
member of the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity.

 

Judge Blanding Honored

Jupce J. M. BLanpinc, who attended Washington
and Lee University in 1870-1871, received last June the
honorary degree of LL. D. from Austin College, Sher-
man, ‘Texas. He is a former member of the board of
trustees of that college, having served in that capacity for
twenty-five years.

Judge Blanding registered at the University in Sep-
tember, 1870, just about a month before the death of
General Lee. He now makes his home with his daughter
in Italy, Texas.

 

A Correction

In the Class Notes for the Class of 1893, appearing
in the October issue of The Alumni Magazine, the state-
iment was made that H. A. Albright unveiled an eques-
trian statue of General Robert E. Lee, and was therefore
unable to attend Finals. In some inexplicable manner
this note became confused with a note on Dr. George
Bolling Lee, a member of Mr. Albright’s class, to the
effect that Dr. Lee was accompanying his son, Robert
E. Lee IV, to Dallas, Texas, to unveil a statue of his
great-grandfather, General Robert I. Lee. We do not
know how this confusion came about, but make our
humble apologies to all and sundry concerned.

[ 12 |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Another Successful Homecoming

By Everett O. Amis, 1939

HERE wasn't a city its size in the country as busy

ot as Lexington when the Homecoming Washington
and Lee alumni were welcomed back on November 6 and
7. The entire city, students and townspeople, extended its
warmest welcome and helped take part in the gala occas-
ion. There were football games! There were dances and
pep rallies! There was an incessant series of renewed ac-
quaintances and friend-
ships! In fact, there
was just about every-
thing that goes toward
making a_ successful
homecoming event!

Despite the fact
that the registration
this year fell short of
the 1935 enrollment,
it is doubtful if ever
there was a more en-
thusiastic crowd. Esti-
mations from the reg-
istration showed that
there were about 750
from all parts of the
country, and instead
of sitting back and
letting the undergrad-
uates create all the
excitement, the alumni
proceeded to take over the town in a big way and show
that the old spirit was as alive as ever. According to Cy
Young, Alumni Secretary, the number of Old Timers
registered this year equalled only about half of the 1935
mark, but there were several hundred who had returned
and failed to register. The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
led all the other houses on the campus for the greatest
number of returning alumni, forty of the Pi K. A.’s re-
porting, and were awarded a silver pitcher.

All the fraternities co-operated splendidly this year
in making the Homecoming festivities a success, espec-
ially with a glamorous array of decorations. The Beta
Theta Pi fraternity, with a motion picture theatre motif,
including huge pictures of the Generals and an advertise-
ment to see V. P. I. defeated, took first prize, another
silver pitcher, while the Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s were
awarded a silver sandwich tray as second prize for their
unique model of a large V. P. I. sailboat, about to be

 

Betas’ Theatre Motif Wins Decorations Contest

sunk by the Generals. Another silver sandwich tray,
awarded for third place, was presented to Sigma Phi
<psilon whose figure of Lee was leading eleven V. P. I.
Gobblers to the chopping block (Wilson Field) where
Washington awaited with a gleaming ax. The Zeta Beta
Tau, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Nu and Kappa Alpha fra-
ternities were given honorable mention. This year’s dec-
orations were one of
the most unique and
colorful sets ever dis-
played, and by means
of skillful lighting sys-
tems, they afforded a
spectacular sight in the
evenings. The frater-
nities offered further
invaluable assistance
in entertaining the
alumni during their
brief visit in the city.

Those Washing-
ton and Lee Old Tim-
ers who arrived a bit
pe early saw the frosh
; grid team swamp the
University of Virginia
yearlings by the one-
sided score of 24-6,
and were, of course, on
hand to welcome those who returned “home” Friday
night and Saturday. All the open-house affairs were re-
markably well-attended. Then there was that traditional
old pep rally in Doremus gymnasium, and following this
the frosh, inspired by Cy Young’s annual, bombastic pep
talk, and attired in vari-colored pajamas, went parading
about town with long, flaming torches held high above
their heads and predicting a decisive victory over Vir-
ginia Tech the next day. True to form, the parade ended
in a mad rush for the New theatre, where the frosh were
received in royal fashion and were wished the best of
luck for a grid victory and a successful homecoming—
perhaps they were unaware of it at the time, but the New
theatre management was making some very accurate pre-
dictions !

An inspection tour of the campus opened Saturday
morning activities, and with the main body of the alumni
together for the first time during the festivities, the en-

eae

[ 13 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

tire rebuilding program was reviewed. This, perhaps,
made more impression on the Old Timers than anything
else. The new Student Union Building, the changes in
the interiors of Washington College, Newcomb Hall,
Tucker Hall, and the Library were all viewed with ad-
miration by the alumni.

Following the inspection tour, a buffet luncheon was
served in the Student Union. During the entire fete the
Student Union was the center of activity with its throngs
of alumni lounging about in its spacious rooms and on
its comfortable furniture. ‘‘College Friendships” sounded
good as its strains issued forth from the building—Wash-
ington and Lee must have graduated some very good
vocalists in its time.

Although getting back to Lexington, meeting old
friends, and taking part in all that was going on nat-
urally provided excitement, the greatest thrill of Home-
coming was seeing the Generals trounce the V. P. I. Gob-
blers 27 to 0 in a game that was predicted a sure win for
Tech by every sports staff in the section. The Big Blue,
although brilliantly powerful and full of fighting spirit,
were definitely inspired by the support of the alumni in
the stands, and it was largely due to this that they scored
one of the season’s most surprising upsets.

The activity didn’t end with the termination of the
grid victory, however. In fact, it had really just started.
The Homecomers, highly elated over the Blue’s triumph,
thronged to the gym that night where Dan Gregory play-
ed for the Homecoming dance before a large crowd.

Kay Kyser, nationally famous orchestra leader, must
have gotten wind of the Washington and Lee Homecom-
ing festivities, for his program from the Aragon dance
hall in Chicago that night was dedicated to the Univer-
sity. Kyser supplied the melodies for last year’s Fancy
Dress set and since then has never hesitated in acclaim-
ing it as one of the most enjoyable experiences in his
musical career. This statement was repeated over the
radio to several thousand listeners Saturday night, while
the popular band leader played “The Swing” in waltz
tempo, fox trot, swing time, and band fashion, and then
concluded the program by having his colorful glee club
present their rendition of the alma mater song, “College
Friendships.”

Among the returning alum-
ni, the oldest alumnus reg-
istered was Walter C. Bruce,
1889, of Montgomery, Alaba-
ma, and the one coming from
the longest distance was
George F. Hill, 1926, who
took a vacation from his job
in China, returning to Amer-
ica with Homecoming one of
the things in mind.

  

Homecoming Crowd Sees V. P. I. Defeated

Visiting Professor on Campus

‘THE MEMBERS Of the faculty and of the student body
have been enjoying a series of stimulating lectures by Dr.
Percival R. Cole, a vice-principal of the University of
Sydney, Australia. Dr. and Mrs. Cole are spending a
month on our campus. Before coming to us they had
been at the University of Pennsylvania and at Wash-
ington University in St. Louis.

Dr. Cole is a distinguished scholar, author, and lec-
turer. His addresses are characterized by extraordinary
familiarity with classical literature and a remarkable ver-
satility in subject matters. He has lectured to combined
classes on various phases of the history and philosophy
of education and on the competing theories of govern-
ment that are threatening to bring on international con-
Hicts. Some of Dr. Cole’s public lectures delivered in Lee
Chapel have been “The Functions of a University,”
‘Australia’s International Relations,” ‘Interesting Facts
About Australia,” and ‘Prospects of World Peace.”

The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
is sponsoring these lectures in the interest of mutual un-
derstanding and friendship among nations. Dr. Francis
P. Gaines and John W. Davis, 1892, are trustees of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

 

The Troubadours Plan Season

Tue TRouBADOURS, under the direction of Professor
Larry Watkin, broke all records for attendance with
their presentation of O’Neill’s “Ah, Wilderness !”’ on No-
vember 19-20-21. Capacity crowds packed the Trouba-
dour Theatre and a score of persons were turned away.

The next play will be “Overture,” by William Bo-
litho, December 10, 11, 12, calling for a cast of twenty-
six men and one woman.

A new system for selling tickets to the performances
has been inaugurated this year. Campus Tax payers, al-
ready entitled to see two of the productions, receive a
special rate of seventy cents to view the other two plays.
Non-subscribers to the Campus Tax may purchase a
season ticket for the four plays
for one dollar and a half.

Early in the Spring, Rob-
ert Anderson’s “Petrified For-
est” will be produced. The
choice of plays with a mod-
ern setting is assuring a fav-
orable response on the part of
the student body which ex-
pressed some disapproval of
the historical dramas present-
ed last year.

 

[| 14 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Sports Resume and Winter Prospects

By WiiuiaM B. BacsBry

TATE champions and that is about all you can say

for the record of the 1936 edition of Washington
and Lee’s football team. Washington and Lee with a
clean sweep of the Virginia teams on its schedule re-
ceived clear claim to the title when V. P. I. defeated Vir-
ginia Military Institute in Roanoke on ‘Thanksgiving.
The Generals had previously defeated the Gobblers
twenty-seven to nothing in a homecoming day battle for
Washington and Lee. They also defeated Virginia thir-
teen to nothing and William and Mary thirteen to seven.

‘The Generals also
placed three men on
the all-state team
though they failed to
place a single man on
the all-Southern con-
ference team. Captain
Duane Berry, the Gen-
erals’ fine right guard
for the past three
years ; Wilton Sample,
two hundred pound
fullback from Shreve-
port, La.; also playing
his third year on the
varsity; and Frank
Jones, big Richmond
lad who plays end and
is a junior, were the
three Washington and Lee men to be placed on the state
honor eleven.

Though the record of the Generals is nothing to brag
about this fall, yet it must be said that they lost only one
game that they might reasonably have been expected to
win under the existing restrictions placed on athletics
and athletes in the Southern conference. That single loss
was a nineteen to six defeat handed the Big Blue in Bal-
timore by the University of Maryland on Thanksgiving.
It looked in the opening minutes that Washington and
lee had the situation well in hand when they received
the opening kickoff, and after a series of first downs,
scored on a pass, Dunlap to Jones.

While the record may look pretty black for Wash-
ington and l.ee, consider just what teams defeated the
Generals—the United States Military Academy, West
Virginia, Kentucky and Duke, besides the University
of Maryland already mentioned.

“i .

 

Plenty of Action in the Homecoming Game With V. P. I.

Washington and l,ee’s frosh team also placed three
men on the all-state team-—Hogan, one of the finest backs
to perform in the state this year; Dick Boisseau from
Petersburg, Va., who played tackle and was elected cap-
tain of the Brigadiers; and Paul Muldoon, a guard.

The Brigadiers will not be able to help the varsity
much with weight next year, but they did have a fast,
shifty little team which turned in a very good season
though having two defeats, two ties, and only one vic-
tory. The victory was over the University of Virginia
frosh; the two defeats
were a two to nothing
loss to V. P. I. anda
six to nothing defeat
at the hands of a very
much heavier Mary-
land team. S. M. A.
and Richmond ac-
counted for the ties.

It is hard to tell
what kind of a team
Washington and Lee
will have next year
though only three reg-
ulars will be _ lost.
Each of these three
will be hard to re-
place, however. They
are Captain Berry,
Wilton Sample, and Preston Moore. Bill Fishback, an
end, and Emory Cox were lost from the reserves. If as
many men are lost by failure to return to school as were
last fall, the result may be chaos. Sixteen sophomores on
the squad this year, the majority of whom were really
capable performers this season, should be back, and with
seven juniors, who will be playing their last time next
season, will make up the nucleus of the squad.

For 1937 the Generals have scheduled the following
games :

September 25, Wofford at Lexington; October 2,
Richmond at Lexington; October 9, West Virginia at
Charleston, W. Va.; October 16, Kentucky at Lexing-
ton, Ky.; October 23, V. P. I. at Blacksburg; October
30, Duke at Richmond; November 6, Virginia at Lex-
ington; November 13, William and Mary at Williams-
burg; November 25, Maryland at Baltimore.

While Washington and Lee did not do so well on the

é
>

S| pet

[ 15 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

gridiron this fall, the basketball team, barring unforseen
events, is expected to redeem the school in the athletic
held. One blow at the hopes of the basketeers has already

fallen with the depar-
ture from school of
Wes Heath, one of
the smoothest working
guards ever to play in
Doremus gymnasium,
who had two more
years of varsity com-
petition left.

The Blue Comets,
as they were termed
last season when they
lost only two games,
have as their captain
this year Norman [ler
who is from Louis-
ville, Kentucky. Iler
was given a place last
year for the second

consecutive time on the all-Southern conference first
team at a guard position. Spessard, six-foot seven-inch
center, playing his first year on the varsity last season,
was also placed on the first team. Besides these two,

 

Pres Moore Gets Off a Long One With Perfect Blocking

February 6
February 13
February 20
February 26

Coach Cy Young has “Kit” Carson, a junior and one of
the finest performers on the squad. “Kit” was placed on

the second team in the conference selections last season

but should without difficulty take over
the place of last year’s captain Joe Pette
on the first all-conference team when
the selections are made next spring.
Also expected to aid the Generals in
their march to the conference crown
which they missed by five points last
March in the tourney at Chapel Hill are
Woodward, Frazier, Tomlin and Doane,
old men, and Bill Borries, Crane and
Wiley among the sophomores. At pres-
ent there is a squad of at least twenty
men working daily in Doremus gym.

Included on the Generals’ court
schedule this year is a trip to New York
where the Washington and Lee _ bas-
keteers will play Long Island Univer-
sity in Madison Square Garden on Jan-
uary 15.

The complete schedule with the pos-
sible exception of some practice games
which may be arranged before the hol-
idays is found in the next column.

Coach Mathis must rebuild an en-
tire team this fall if he is able to retain

:
v4
"x,

January 23

 

Cy Young Broadcasting at the

Homecoming Game

[ 16 ]

the conference title which the General wrestlers won last
spring. Captain Arenz is the only one of five conference
champions which Mathis will have back this season. The

Generals have Prince-
ton on schedule this
year. The complete
schedule is below.
Coach Twombly
will also have diffi-
culty rebuilding his
swimming team which
won the conference
title last year. It is too
‘arly yet to be able to
say what the tankmen
are going to do but
Twombly in past years
has had very success-
ful teams and hopes to
keep up the record.
The swimming sche-
dule is as follows:

Virginia at Charlottesville

Duke at Durham

William and Mary at Williamsburg
V. P. I. at Lexington

WRESTLING SCHEDULE

North Carolina at Lexington

February 5 Duke at Durham, N. C.
February 6 N. C. State at Raleigh
February 13 V. P. I. at Blacksburg
February 27 Princeton at Princeton

3ASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Elon at Lexington
Maryland at Lexington
Virginia at Charlottesville
W. and M. at Lexington
Long Island at New York
V. P. I. at Lexington
February 5 N.C. State at Lexington
February 6 V. P. I. at Blacksburg
February 8 Duke at Durham
February 11 Richmond at Lexington
February 13 Virginia at Lexington
February 16 Duke at Lexington
February 18 Maryland at College Park
February 20 N. Carolina at Lynchburg
February 22 Richmond at Richmond
February 27 W.-M. at Williamsburg

January 6
January 8
January 11
January 12
January 15
January 23

Note—Cy Young’s modesty forced us
to slip in.the picture at the left without his
knowledge.—C. H. L.

The cAlumni M dgazine, Washin gton and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Richmond

THE THIRD meeting of the year of the Richmond
Alumni Club was held at the Westmoreland Club, Oc-
tober 30th, the night preceding the Washington and Lee-
Duke game.

The speaker of the evening was Baldwin B. Bane,
1917, general counsel for the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Mr. Bane proved to be a delightful speaker
with a wide range of amusing stories covering politics
and certain aspects of life in the South.

Joseph Birnie, president of the local club, presided.

Cy Young and Amos Bolen represented the Univer-
sity and the football team.

There were fifty-two members present. Among them
were: Clyde Allen, E. G. Bailey, Joe Birnie, Edgar I.
Bostwick, Lawrence Caldwell, Rev. W. L. Carson, A. R.
Coleman, Ted Curtis, Dr. Richard Fowlkes, John Friend,
Minitree Fulton, Charles Hamilton, Theron R. Harrell,
Irank Harrelson, George Haw, Col. Leroy Hodges, Dr.
A. A. Houser, D. Minge Jackson, Dr. Lewis E. Jarrett,
Carlton E. Jewett, Miles Johnston, Thomas Moore,
Carlisle H. Morrissett, Charles W. Moss, Charles A.
Norman, Charles H. Phillips, William M. Pope, Louis
I’, Powell, Jr., George S. Riggs, James Rucker Ryland,
Walter Hampton Shirley, Otto M. Stumpf, L. L. Tig-
nor, Dr. Atwood M. Wash, George M. Wiltshire, Hugh
M. Witt, Dan Lindsey, J. S. Lewis, Charles E. Branham.

Norfolk

THe Norro_k alumni were hosts at an informal
buffet supper Friday evening, November 13th, at the
‘Town Club, on the eve of the Washington and Lee-Wil-
liam and Mary football game. Among those present were
the following :

Walter EK. Hoffman, J. Hoge Tyler, IV, Leigh Wil-
liams, C. J. Devine, W. Franklin Portlock, T. Deale
Blanchard, Fred G. Swink, George H. Carr, Jr., Charles
W. Hauks, R. B. Spindle, G. R. Smith, Ralph Ricardo,

H. E. Gaylor, William H. Oast, Melvin E. Cruser, J. .

Garlin Parker, Edward L. Oast, J. Alden Oast, Robert
D. Powers, Jr., Leonard H. Davis, W. W. Venable.

J. F. R. Kuck, W. F. Vellines, Frank A. Dusch, S.
Heth Tyler, Edward M. Baum, Jr., Edward M. Baum,
III, Meyer Lu Goodman, W. P. Woodley, J. Carlton
Hudson, Vivian L. Page, C. FE. Womble, W. G. Womble,
Jack H. Mason, Howard W. Gwaltney, Cy Young, Dick
Smith, W. P. Ballard, and Roy D. Nichols.

Birmingham

THe ALUMNI of Birmingham, Alabama, met for din-
ner at 6:30, Saturday, November 21, in the Pine Room
of the Hotel Tutwiler. Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Stu-
dents, and H. K. Young, Alumni Secretary, addressed
the meeting. Moving pictures were shown of campus
scenes and Lexington ‘celebrities,’ made with the new
moving picture outfit recently purchased by the Alumni
Association.

In the absence of Jim Hendricks, president of the
local association, Mark Hanna presided. Among those
present were:

Ed Aull, 1923; Richard Beard, 1925; Bill Beard,
1932; Darby Brown, 1925; Bestor Brown, 1930; R. D.
Burnett, 1936; R. F. Burnett, 1911; Borden Burr, 1898;
Frank Cash, 1910; W. R. J. Dunn, 1907; Arthur Pope,
1936; L. R. Hanna, 1914; J. R. Hendrix, 1926; Noble
D. Hendrix, 1913; Billy Hoge, 1913; Walter Hood,
1910; Sorsby Jemison, 1909; Henry Johnston, 1929;
Allen Rushton, 1925; Buck Streit, 1928; Harry Satter-
held, 1912.

New York

On Fripay, November 20th, the local association of
Washington and Lee Alumni of New York held its an-
nual dinner in the beautiful Blue Room of the Hotel
Ambassador.

Bill Johnson, assisted by Wentworth Myers and Ha-
ven Walton, were in charge of the arrangements. Cock-
tails were served in the lounge at 7:00 p. m., with din-
ner at eight.

The guest of honor was Dr. James Lewis Howe. Dr.
Howe gave an interesting and inspiring talk on the Uni-
versity, past and present.

Hugh Hawthorne, retiring president, made a short
talk and then called on Clarence Sager, chairman of the
nominating committee, who read the names of the of-
ficers elected to serve for the coming year, as follows:
E. W. Poindexter, president ; John Drye, vice-president ;
K. W. Lee, secretary-treasurer.

In an effort to bring into membership more of the
younger alumni, the constitution of the New York Alum-
ni Association was amended. Section 3, Article 2, relative
to dues, was amended to provide that there be no dues
payable by alumni who have been out of school less than
four years.

William A. Hyman stated that he would establish an

[ 17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

annual medal, to be known as the James Lewis Howe
Medal, in honor of Dr. Howe. Those present were:

K. W. Lee, W. E. Johnston, Rayford W. Alley, James
A. Castner, M. B. Rogers, Julian H. Bailey, Jack G.
Marks, R. T. Shields, E. C. Caffrey, B. A. Judd, W. R.
Burton, EK. W. Poindexter, H. R. Hawthorne, Walter
J. Pound, L,. Albert Samstag, Jr., John Drye, Jr., Haven
Walton, Thornton W. Allen, Arthur Hauck, H. L,. Staeh-
ling, Allan McDowell, Wentworth Myers, Albert J. Du-
rante, J. H. Berrien, W. S. Wurzburger, J. J. Salinger,
H. G. Morrison, Charles A. Cohen, William A. Hyman,
B. EK. Brennan, L. ‘T. Brown, Rand E. Tyrrel, R. J. Ce-
raso, James A. Lee, Carl A. Foss, Roy J. Grimley, John
J. Hudak, Rhea Whitley, Junius Powell, Harold E. Moss,
H. I. Day, Brooks Barbour, and Clarence L,. Sager.

Baltimore

WASHINGTON AND LEE Alumni of Baltimore held a
dinner meeting on the evening preceding the Washing-
ton and lLee-Maryland game in the main ball room of
the Emerson hotel at 7:00 o'clock, November 25. There
were sixty-five alumni present.

W. Carroll (“Johnny”) Mead, president of the local
association, presided, and the principal speaker was Pro-
fessor Raymon T. Johnson, of the Washington and Lee
Law School. R. A. (Capt. Dick’?) Smith, Earl. S$. Mat-
tingly and Cy Young, all of the University, also made
short talks. The first showing of moving pictures taken
on the campus with the new apparatus recently purchased
by the Alumni Association, was enthusiastically received.
Among those present were:

M. W. Aledson, Dr. Matthew Page Andrews, Fred-
erick M. Barron, Herbert H. Butler, A. H. Chandler,
Richard P. Cole, J. Carl Fisher, John C. Hoover, Gray
Walton Hume, Jr., Robert Palmer Ingram, John A.
Johnston, James Mallory Marshall, James M. McElroy,
Jr., H. Kent McCay, W. Carroll Mead, Spencer Mer-
rick, Jr., G. R. Myers, Lewis Waters Milbourne, Dar-
rell Manning Price, Oscar Randolph Price, W. F. Rail-
ing, Philip J. Seraphine, Jr., Joseph Miller Sherwood,
J. Hunt Sifford, Jr., Charles F. Smith, Mercer Porter
Sutton, Robert Lester Thomas, Roland Thomas, Mar-
ven Walton, John T. Cover, Alexander Browning, Jul-
ian S. Gravely, Wyatt French, Ralph Hanger, and F.
Stanley Porter, all of Baltimore.

H. M. Waters, Jr., Annapolis, Md.; A. Dawson
Trundle, Ashton, Md.; Frank Hays Jacobs, Jr., Belair,
Md.; Eugene P. Martin, Jr., Ellicott City, Md.; Robert
E. Clapp, Jr., Edward S. Delaplaine, and Henry Early
Thackston, of Frederick, Md.; Rev. Robert Allen Brown
and Harry Clay Lawder, III, of Havre de Grace, Md.

Elijah Rinehart, Relay, Md.; Leonard B. Ranson,
Silver Spring, Md.; George H. McKee, Towson, Md. ;

James Roy Stuart, Westminster, Md.; J. W. Claudy,
Bellefonte, Pa.; Joseph Birnie and Charlie Todd, of
Richmond, Va.; Alexander Walton, Baldwin Bane, Ed
Campbell, Dozier DeVane, Bob Williams, and Bob Wil-

-liams, Jr., of Washington, D. C., and C. B. Carr, of

Boyce, Va.

Washington

Tue District of Columbia alumni held their annual
fall smoker at the Racquet Club in Washington on Tues-
day, November 24, 1936, and enjoyed a delightful eve-
ning. here were about fifty alumni present and a num-
ber of the brethren were moved to make impromptu
speeches on the “state of the University.” Raymon T.
Johnson, professor of law, and Karl S$. Mattingly, reg-
istrar, were the guests of honor, and each spoke brietly
on the general progress of events on the campus. ‘Tickets
for the Maryland game were on hand and were gathered
up eagerly by a number of those present.

President Ed Campbell reported on the Homecoming
week-end, the recent meeting of the Alumni Board of
Trustees, and the trend at Washington and Lee toward
the development of a fine small type of college, with
limited enrollment and emphasis on cultural studies. Mr.
W. J. Humphreys of the class of 1888, president of the
Cosmos Club, spoke in earnest support of such a pro-
gram, and his remarks were seconded by vice-chairman
Basil M. Manly, 1906, of the Federal Power Commis-
sion. The present officers were re-elected for another
year, Ed Campbell, 1918, president, and Cliff Woodrum,
1933, secretary. The following were among those present:

Edmund D. Campbell, Robert K. Williams, C. W.
Lowry, Jr., James C. Hobday, W. J. Humphreys, J. D.
Burn, J. K. Vinson, Robert Morris, H. R. Mills, M. B.
Cox, C. H. Davidson, D. George Price, Hilliard Harper,
A. P. Thomson, Woodson P. Houghton, William H.
Alexander, Robert B. Campbell, Wilson M. Roach, D.
W. Alexander, Eugene EF. Krewson.

Torrence Wolford, E. P. Bledsoe, Jr., EK. H. Pewett,
Austin Bricker, Jr., William C. Barbee, J. H. Young,
E. W. Hale, Jr., Charles F. Suter, Wilton W. Conner,
Fred P. Guthrie, Dozier A. DeVane, Dr. John Warner,
John A. Hanley, E. N. Cross, and Basil M. Manly.

 

Miss BLANcHE McCrum, University librarian, has
been granted a leave of absence to prepare a revised and
enlarged edition of her book, “An Estimate of Standards
for a College Library.” Miss McCrum went to Columbia
University early in November and will spend six months
gathering material and rewriting her book which is to be
published through a grant from the Carnegie corpora-
tion. The first edition of 300 copies, published by Miss
McCrum at the University, was widely acclaimed and
the edition was sold out early this year.

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Youne, Alumni Secretary

s I am still alive after my first attempt at writing
this column, and being sufficiently encouraged by a
few of our friends, I am going to make another

stab at it.
As I expected, I got in bad with some of our women-
folk—and for what? Not mentioning the daughters. I
apologize, Mrs. Gibson, I knew about

 

that lovely daughter of yours, and am
sure she will be a leader of the Fancy
Dress some day. Others will agree with
me when they see her picture which ap-
pears on the following page.

mJ eco ee

Referring to the last issue of the
Magazine, I find we were visiting with
our many Washington and Lee friends
in Louisville, Kentucky, and that I
promised to take you with me on to St.
Louis. | ask you! Were you ever in St.
Louis in mid-July? Here is a hot town in more ways
than one! But thanks to an air-conditioned hotel, | was
able to survive. In spite of the heat I always look for-
ward to my visits to this great city on the Mississippi,
for it is fast becoming one of our best Washington and
Lee towns. John Patterson, the president of our local
alumni association, has done a fine job; and there is H.
H. Larimore. He is a busy man, being general counsel
for the Missouri Pacific Railway, but is always ready to
drop everything and talk Washington and Lee. The
Alumni at their general meeting last June made a wise
selection when they placed him on our Alumni Board of
Trustees. We were very glad to have both him and Mrs.
lLarimore back with us at Homecoming. I had lunch with
Bruce Seddon and late the same day drove out in the
country to his beautiful home. Bruce, Junior, is now in his
second year at Washington and Lee. George and Tom
Atwood are two of our alumni in this city who can al-
ways be relied upon to do any job asked of them per-
taining to alumni work. I had dinner with the Atwoods,
and I might say the whole family are Washington and
Lee boosters. Baker Atwood, a cousin, is carrying on the
family tradition. He is a member of the freshman class.

I am not going to take up this whole column on our
many loyal alumni in St. Louis, which I could easily do,
as there are many others there who have shown by their
actions how vitally interested they are. Among them—

 

McChesney Martin, Eddie Bacon, Ashley Cabell, Pur-
nell Diggs, Wayne Ely, the Gunter brothers, Robert Lee
Hunter, who has a freshman son, Bill Klieforth, and
James William Lockett, class of 1869, Cliff McMillan,
Bill Robinson and Ted, his brother, who graduated last
year, and many others.

e30m

One of the delightful features of
my job as Alumni Secretary are the many
pleasant contacts that I make with Harry
Carmichael. From St. Louis I drove
down to Kyrock, Kentucky, to spend the
week-end with Harry and his wonder-
ful family. I certainly wish it were pos-
sible for all of Harry’s friends to see
Kyrock and the great organization he
has there in the Kentucky Rock Asphalt
Company. He certainly has things well
in hand. It is one of the best organiza-
tions of its kind I have ever seen. Harry
is another member of our Alumni Board of Trustees and
has served on many committees for both the University
and the Alumni Association, to say nothing of the great
work he has done for the state of Kentucky on the many
commissions on which he has served. Mrs. Carmichael
says he has more non-paying jobs than any man in the
state.

i ee

Taking a long jump now from my summer travels
back to the campus: We have had so many nice visits
from alumni since getting in our new quarters. Frank
Smith dropped in to see us and the same day Francis
Miller showed up. I get a great kick out of taking the
occasional visitors on a tour of inspection of our new
buildings. All of them are most enthusiastic over what
has been done. Bob Witt, a native Lexingtonian, says
he can hardly realize from the interior that it is the same
Washington and Lee which he has known all his life.
Bob had his little daughter and charming wife, Harriett,
with him. The Witts live in San Antonio. Ed Worth and
his wife were here recently. Ed was most enthusiastic
about his one-year-old daughter—another prospect for a
dance leader. Ed is practicing law in Tampa.

We were honored with a visit from several alumni
members of the Board of Trustees of the University—
Messrs. St. Clair, Fitzpatrick and Caskie stopped by and
chatted and admired our new quarters.

 

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Houston Patterson is on vacation from his mission
in China and is in and out of Lexington. He says it is
hard for him to stay away.

I know all of you who were in school from 1911 to 1915
remember Dick Fowlkes. Dick is practicing physician in
Richmond, Virginia, specializing in skin diseases. He
has pushed his racket so far that he even gets paid for
skinning you. I know of no one who is more enthusiastic
about Washington and Lee than Dick. We reminisce
on every occasion.

Lynwood Holmes and Mrs. Holmes were recent vis-
itors——another native son who has never lost his interest.

*K ao He

| had made up my mind that it would be next to im-
possible for me to get to West Point for the Army game
as our freshman football team was playing
Staunton Military Academy in Staunton on
Friday afternoon and there are no plane con-
nections out of this part of the country, but
somehow or other after the freshman game
I got back to Lexington and rushed to Buena
Vista in time to catch the night train for New
York. I didn’t tarry in the big city but went
straight across town to the Grand Central and
got a train for Stamford, Conn., where I was
met by Clarence Sager, our new Alumni
President. After an hour or so of discussion
about alumni matters we started for West
Point, taking Mrs. Sager with us. I have al-
ways thought that the Blue Ridge Mountains
around Lexington in the fall were the tops when it comes
to color and beauty—and still do, but the next prettiest
country that I have ever seen is between Stamford and
West Point. We arrived just in time to see the cadets in
their regular Saturday parade.

This trip carried me back twenty years exactly to the
day when I was a member of the football team that play-
ed the Army. We lost on that occasion by the score of
13 to 7. In spite of our defeat at West Point this year I
thoroughly enjoyed the trip, for I saw so many of our
alumni from that part of the country. “Pin” Webster
was there from Schenectady. Pin never misses an occas-
ion to be on hand when Washington and Lee is concern-
ed. Stu Wurzburger, who, by the way, made all arrange-
ments for a special train for Washington and Lee men
which was run out of New York, was trying to keep his
gang in tow. Frank Urmey assures me that he will be at
470 West 24th street, London Terrace, New York, for
awhile. We have a hard time in this office keeping up
with Frank. Joe Lykes and his family were there. Joe
has an added interest now in Washington and Lee foot-
ball as his nephew, Charlie Lykes, of Houston, Texas,
is a sophomore member of the team. He is developing

 

fast, and I am sure will be heard from as a player in
future years. Snorter Morison, Wop Walton, Cavitt
Robert, Duncan Groner, and I believe all of our younger
alumni who are now living in the metropolitan district,
took the day off to make this jaunt.

*x* *« *

| take many delightful trips in the course of my
work, but one of the best of all is the trip across the Blue
Ridge mountains to Charlottesville with the football team.
| mean, of course, when we win from the Wahoos, which
is getting to be a habit—the worst when we lose.

On October 24 I made this jaunt, and what a grand
day it turned out to be. The sixth year in succession
when Virginia ended up with the well-remembered
goose-egg. It ruined their Homecoming Day.

There were hundreds of Washington and
Lee men there on this occasion and in my
enthusiasm, after the game, I recall seeing
Ed Campbell with his wife, walking across
the field, all smiles. Billy Lott, a former var-
sity quarterback, who is now in Washington ;
Baldy Binford, formerly of Raleigh, but now
living in Washington, Johnny Mead was not
angry at the results of the game—or, appar-
ently, with the sweet young thing who accom-
panied him. Wendell Mann, of Ashland,
Kentucky, always makes a point to come back
and see us defeat our respected rivals. Cy
Hall was over from Charleston and there was
George Taliaferro, Frank Switzer, Clivy Car-
penter, Dozier DeVane, Jack Caskie, Tom Torrey and
many more that I did not get to see.

Anne Morrell Gibson

x *« x

I never realize how many alumni contacts I have
until I start writing this column, and I am frank to say
that all of them are most pleasant. It is only on rare oc-
casions that I meet with an alumnus who hasn't some-
thing to say, showing that he is really proud to be listed
among the alumni of Washington and Lee. Not that we
do not have suggestions and criticisms, but they are al-
ways given in a friendly spirit.

In the past three weeks we have had alumni meetings
in Richmond and Norfolk. Scheduled between now and
December 4th are meetings in the following towns, Bir-
mingham, Chattanooga, Memphis, Washington, Balti-
more and New York. It will be a physical impossibility
for me to be present at all of these meetings, but [ am
sure to see a great many of our friends at the ones I am
able to attend, and will let you have the low down on all
of them in the next series of “Chats With Your Friends

and Mine.”
and Min

[ 20 |

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1889

CHARLES HEPBURN says he is three-score years and
ten, was born in the classic town of Brownsburg, Va. ;
was educated at Augusta Academy and Washington and
Lee University; taught for forty years in public schools
and private academies, and is now a retired teacher liv-
ing on a little farm surrounded by the best neighbors in
the world, at the town the late Harry St. George Tucker
used to say reminded him of “Sweet Auburn! loveliest
village of the plain,” Fairfield, Va.

1893

R. L. Hyarr is vice-president of the Union Bank &
Trust Co., of Monticello, Ark. He has two sons and a
daughter.

JULIAN BolssiEux is collector of city taxes, Rich-
mond, Va. Says he has not been in Lexington for years,
although every spring and fall he takes imaginary trips
there.

Piiny FisHBURNE is a_ prescription druggist at
Waynesboro, Va.

Don P. HAtskry is judge of the Lynchburg, Va., cir-
cuit court.

P. C. BoLcER is United States Commissioner Poteau
Division, eastern district of Oklahoma.

,. R. CoNNER writes a delightfully reminiscent let-
ter from Fort Worth, Texas, where he is in the station-
ery business. He says, “I recently completed reading a
book by Henry Boley, ‘Lexington, in Old Virginia.’ I
suppose I have enjoyed reading this more than any book
I have ever read in my life. I would un-
hesitatingly tell you that if you get the
book and read it you will enjoy every min-

ute spent upon it.” Ais
Tuomas W. GILMER is practicing law a oh
in Bay Minette, Ala.
iC
4 « . . ' :
KLIJAH FUNKHOUSER is a consulting ="

engineer, 7522 Eastlake Terrace, Chicago,
Ill. He owns a place five miles north of
Lexington and spends much of his time
here.

Hat L. Norwoop is state director of
the Federal Housing Administration of Ne
Arkansas at Little Rock. Sy

“a heel Nt

ph uy Hii
AC | big all ‘
\

1894

JAmEs B. Butuirt, M. D., Pathological Laboratory,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C., had a
daughter married last Christmas and a son married in
May of this year.

FRANK NELSON is secretary of the Chattanooga
Clearing House Association, Hamilton National Bank
building, Chattanooga, Tenn.

S

EK. P. Cotks is with the General Electric Company,
200 S. Tryon street, Charlotte, N. C.

Joun M. Grauam is president of the National City
Bank, Rome, Ga.

1897

Tuomas E. Marsuatv is with the Rocky Mount
Mills, Rocky Mount, N. C.

1898

R. W. Flournoy was legal adviser to the American
delegation to the Naval Conference, and as such assisted
in the drafting of the treaty which was signed at the
conference.

R. W. Hott is chief accountant of the public schools
of the District of Columbia. His address is Franklin Ad-
ministration building, Washington, D. C.

Davin M. Barctay, who is with the Tariff Commis-
sion in Washington, has been in Richmond, Va., for the
past year organizing a group of PWA workers who are
to do research work for the Tariff Board. He is now
back in Washington and is living in the Cordova apart-
ments, 20th and Florida avenue.

1899
lL. A. HicKMAN is a lawyer with of-
fices at 417 West Market street, Louis-
ville, Ky.

ye

J. A. McCvure is minister of the First
Presbyterian church, St. Petersburg, Fla.
He has a daughter who graduated this year
at Agnes Scott, a son in the law school at
Washington and Lee, and another son in
the school of chemical engineering in Cin-
cinnati.

hy

 

RocEr W. Harrison is practicing law
in Greensboro, N. C.

The cAlumni M agazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. Wanroy Garrow is a member of the firm of Gar-
row and Garrow, cotton factors and brokers, Houston,
Texas.

S. C. Linn is head of the newly formed Institute of
Technology at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
It embraces the College of Engineering and Architecture,
the School of Chemistry and the School of Mines.

A. Stuart Greson is rector of Trinity Episcopal
church, Manassas, Va. He has three daughters, the old-
est was married last May.

A. Sreppon Jones is with the Virginia-Carolina
Chemical Corporation, Richmond, Va.

1901

H. M. Housvon is with the John Bremond company,
wholesale grocers, Austin, Texas.

Sruart L,. Cress is president of the Burton Corpor-
ation, realtors, 5100 Wilshire boulevard, Los Angeles,
California.

1902

W. G. McDoweE tt is a bishop of the Episcopal
church, 2015 6th avenue, N., Birmingham, Ala.

Paut VINCENT Barrett lives at 1113 Ridge ave-
nue, N.S., Pittsburgh, Pa.

J. Morrison HutcHeEson is a physician, with offices
in the Professional building, Richmond, Va. He is a
member of the University Board of Trustees and active
in all University affairs.

Wittiam H. MALONE was county attorney for Mon-
roe county, Florida, for twenty-seven years; a member
of the Florida House of Representatives in 1907 and
1909; in the State Senate from 1916 to 1919; mayor of
the city of Key West from January, 1933, to November,
1935. Last April he moved to ©~!nndo, Fla., and has his
law offices in the Florida Bank building.

D. E. Wirt is a special agent of the Granite State
Fire Insurance Company, of Portsmouth, N. H. His
offices are in the Krise building, Lynchburg, Va.

1903

B. F. Comps is practicing law in Prestonsburg, Ky.,
with offices in the First National Bank building.

Joun W. WarNER is a surgeon, 1029 Vermont ave-
nue, Washington, D. C. He is married and has “two
handsome boys who are replicas of their daddy.”

JAMES WarRREN Bactey, Major, Assistant to Chief
of Engineers, War Department, Washington, D.C., has
had a long illness, but is regaining his health.

1906
Ropert Epwin Acres is a farmer near Mayfield, Ky.

Ranson H. GILLETTE is an attorney-at-law in the
D. & H. building, the Plaza, Albany, N. Y. Stops fre-
quently at the General Worth Hotel where Dick Parme-
lee is manager and says “‘it is the tidiest little tavern to
be found anywhere between New York and Montreal,
and has been harboring travellers passing along the Al-
bany Post Road upon their lawful occasions ever since
the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.”

H. V. CANnvreER is a professor in the University of
Illinois, Urbana, III.

1907

W. L. Lorp is head of the department of mathematics
at Woodberry Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Va.

V. GitmoreE IDEN is secretary of the American In-
stitute of Steel Construction, executive offices, 200 Mad-
ison avenue, New York.

C. C. CrocKeErt is practicing law in Dublin, Ga.

1908

Mayor Lewis C. Gorvon has recently been trans-
ferred from the military department of the University
of Kansas to Rolla, Mo.

J. C. CarpentER, JR., has a son at Washington and
Lee, who has been managing editor of The Ring-tum Phi
for the past two years. He is president of the First Na-
tional Bank, Clifton Forge, Va.

Ropert RUSSELL GRAY is minister of the Union and
Salem Presbyterian churches. He lives at Union, W. Va.

Grorck McP. MINetREE is at 652 Munsey building,
Washington, D. C.

C. IT. CHENERY is a consulting engineer. His address
is 90 Broad street, New York.

Preston Irwin is with Arthur G. McKee & Co.,
2422 Euclid avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

CHARLIE GLASGOW is practicing law in Lexington,
Va. Has a beautiful and hospitable home.

S. N. Hosnowr is city collector for Staunton, Va.

Morton I. LAZARUS is a manufacturer of ice cream
cones and waffles. He has a wife and three grown daugh-
ters. He lives in Baltimore, Md.

1911

W. TT. NEEL is an electrical engineer. His address is
Room 508, 1000 Chestnut street, Philadelphia, Pa.

[| 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

GEORGE M. Weston lives at Swanquarter, N. C.

Lewis G. Cooper is practicing law in Greenville,
North Carolina.

BEN AINSWORTH is practicing law in Lexington, Va.

LUTHER G. Scorr is president of the Mercer County
Bar Association and also of the Bluefield Automobile
Club. His offices are in the Commercial Bank building,
Martinsburg, W. Va.

Rosert A. Russet is practicing law in Rustburg,
Virginia.

Omer T. KAytor is practicing law in Hagerstown,
Maryland.

1912

GEorGE L,. CoyLE is a member of the firm of Coyle
& Richardson, Charleston, W. Va. This is one of the
outstanding department stores in the city.
He has a wife and three sturdy sons.

Paut A. RocKwWELt has finished writ-
ing another book, but has not yet found
a publisher for it. He has recently bought
two farms in the heart of the Blue Ridge
mountains of North Carolina and is
building a summer home there. Ed N. At-
kinson, 1912, president of the Ed Atkin-
son Lumber Co., Asheville, N. C., is sup-
plying the materials.

HT

|

\!

      

rior Mine Coal Company, Warriormine, W. Va., and
W. E. Harnan Coal Corporation, Harnan, Va. The two
companies produce about 5,000 tons daily.

Cari C. (Rep) Moore lives at 1952 Guilford Road,
Columbus, Ohio.

R. A. Smitru is Director of Athletics at Washington
and Lee University.

HERMAN DAvIpsoON is practicing medicine, with of-
fices in suite 1424, 30 N. Michigan avenue, Chicago. Is
interested and helpful in work with the local alumni
chapter.

1915

O. C. BELL is employed with the finance and control
division of the Resettlement Administration in Wash-
ington, D. C. His address there is 1852 Mintwood Place,
N. W., but his permanent address is 38
Columbia Drive, Tampa, Fla.

FraNcIS H. Sty.es has recently been
appointed American consul to Sydney,
Nova Scotia.

5S. G. KELLER has been in the oil re-
fining business for eighteen years. He is
married and has no children. Has been
superintendent of Socony Vacuum Oil

- ‘ . . ° pra °
== Co. since 1921. He lives in Trenton, Mich.

= AC aS Rornert M. McGEuEE is director of

Byron L,. BALLARD is one of the sur-
viving members of the law firm of Shields,
Silsbee, Ballard and Jennings, of Lansing,
Michigan. It was announced on November 15, 1936,
that Carroll R. Taber, formerly patent counsel to the
firm, has become a member of the partnership, the firm
to be hereafter known as Shields, Ballard, Jennings and
Taber.

1913

S. BERNIE HARPER has a son in his second year at
Washington and Lee. He is a member of the firm of
Yantis-Harper Company, automobile accessories, Fort
Smith, Ark.

Joun J. D. Preston is chairman of the Public Ser-
vice Commission of West Virginia at Charleston.

PETE GIBSON is a member of the firm of Marcum &
Gibson, with offices in the First National Bank, Hunt-
ington, W. Va. He is frequently back in Lexington for
linals, Homecoming, ete.

Ep F. Suerrey, II, is an auditor with the HOLC,
101 Indiana avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

GrAbdY Doak Davipson is general manager of War-

AL

——.

religious education for the Synod of Lou-
isiana. He lives in Alexandria, La.

on

Jerry BurKE is division superintendent of Appo-
mattox County Public schools, Appomattox, Va.

WittiAmM H. Smiru lives in Ardmore, Okla.

J. Cart Fisuer lives at 208 Witherspoon Road,

Homeland, Baltimore, Md.

Bos SHAW is married and has four children—three
girls and one boy. Is with the R. C. A. Manufacturing
Company, Harrison, N. J.

Rosert P. AbAMS is practicing law in ‘Trenton,
Tennessee.

JONAH LARRICK lives at 2906 Chamberlayne Park-
way, Richmond, Va. He is married and has two children.

R. S. Kime is practicing law in Salem, Va., with the
firm of Kime & Kime, Electric building.

HUNTER SHUMATE lives in Irvine, Ky., and is prac-
ticing law with his brother, Tom, LL. B., 1930.

[ 23 |

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

D. EAstEyY WAGGONER is vice-president and general
manager of the United Fidelity Life Insurance Com-
pany of Dallas, Texas.

CARROLL FINLAYSON is superintendent and secretary
of the board of public instruction of Jackson county,
Marianna, Fla. He and his family were visitors to Lex-
ington during the summer.

Grorce (Suorty) Sore is practicing law in Sum-
ter, 3. ha

EpmMuNbD Macers is with the department of audits,
Atlanta, Georgia.

J. R. (1k&) MANNING is executive vice-president of
the Roanoke Rapids Building and Loan Association and
president of the National Loan and Insurance Co., Inc.,
Roanoke Rapids, N. C. He was married in 1934 to Miss
Sara Boswood.

J. Suirtey Rivey is with the Roanoke Coca-Cola
Bottling Works, Roanoke, Va.

1917

Henry BLACKFORD has been in the stock and bond
business since 1920. He is treasurer of A. M. Law &
Company, Spartanburg, S. C.

T. Preston WHiTrEe is practicing medicine in Char-
lotte, N. C. He and his wife—nee Hennie Tucker—were
in Lexington for a visit during the summer.

Birt BurtNeER is with the Department of Justice,
Washington, D. C.

Jackson R. CoLtins is practicing law with offices
at 70 Pine street, New York. His home is in Montclair,
New Jersey.

Paut D. Barnes is judge of the circuit court, Miami,
Ilorida.

Jor: W. FLoop is an attorney-at-law, Appomattox,
Virginia.

INMAN P. CRUTCHFIELD is the Crutchfield of the
firm of Crutchfield & Adams, Bisbee building, Jackson-
ville, Fla. For the last several years he has been the
Florida state counsel for Home Owners’ Loan Corpor-
ation. Since leaving Washington and Lee he has acquired
a wife and two children, a boy four years old and a girl
two and a half. He says: “Within the next two years I
expect to put the boy on the street selling newspapers in
the mornings, giving him half of what he makes. I will
then retire and use my part of his income to play golf,
permitting him to caddy for me and paying him half of
the regular caddy fee. When night comes he will be too
tired to get into any mischief and will thus be compelled

to save his money with which in later years he can sup-
port the balance of the family.”

Joun Lesti—E WILvIAMs is Boston district manager
of the Bristol Company, who make instruments for re-
cording, indicating and controlling. He has a wife and
two boys, both of whom he expects to send to Washing-
ton and Lee.

1918

Rk. M. Bear is engaged in aeronautical engineering
work. He is now with the propeller section of the Bu-
reau of Aeronautics, Navy department, Washington,
D. C. His chief duty is to see that all Navy airplanes
are equipped with safe and satisfactory propellers.

Bos CoLEMAN is with the state highway department,
Frankfort, Ky.

E. V. Bowyer has been commercial manager for the
Lynchburg Gas Company, Lynchburg, Va.

1919

Crirrorp M. PEALE says: “Still single. Should have
spent more time in the moonlight at mid-night along with
Brownie, Buck Bryant, and Harry Horsepower Burns.
Finished Harvard Business School in 1925. Wrestled
with investment banking until 1930—switched to public
utilities and from a Virginia Democrat to an Illinois
Republican.”

S. E. DurRANCE is very busy with the law practice
in Orlando, Fla.

1920

CHARLES Howarp McCain, who is with the William
Hengerer Company, Buffalo, N. Y., apparently has noth-
ing to report this year, but we are glad to hear from him
and thank him for his help. We think he ought to come
back to Lexington some Finals and lead the Alumni Ball
to show us his “leading” has not deteriorated since 1920.

B. H. GREATHOUSE lives at 508 S. St. Andrews, Los
Angeles, Calif.

L. A. CusHMAN lives at 19 Brunswick avenue, West
Hartford, Conn.

James P. (Jimmy) HIu is practicing law with of-
fices located in the Atlantic National Bank building, Jack-
sonville, Fla. Jimmy is associated with Bill Jeter, 1918.
He is married and has a four-year-old daughter.

Arcuié G. WARREN, JR., is located in the Florida
National Bank building, St. Petersburg, Fla., practicing
law. He is specializing in title, chancery and _ probate
work. Archie is still single and is not figuring on chang-
ing his status. Reports he occasionaly sees Johnny Block-
er, Ed Worth and many others who were with him at

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Washington and Lee. Archie says he has not been in
Lexington since 1927, but ere long he may be back where
“Old North river goes winding ’round the hill.”

J. S. LeFits lives at 1424 Market street, Jackson-
ville, Fla.

5S. M. Hussry’s address is 1318 Artesian street, Hon-
oulu, Hawaii.

Joun W. Kern, after serving four years as judge,
is now mayor of the city of Indianapolis, Ind.

F. C. Wricurt is with the Paramount Oil Co., Coun-
cil Bluffs, lowa.

GeEorGE H. BARBER (BABE) is in the wholesale coal
business with the Payne-Barber Coal Company of Ken-
tucky, Ashland, Ky.

GLEN EvINs is general manager of the Lykes Bro-
thers Insurance Agency, 207 Franklin
street, Tampa, Fla.

WILLIAM LYNN McKENzIE writes
from Montezuma, Ga., where he has been
living since leaving school, growing
peaches and running a chemical plant.
Lynn married Miss Gladys Lynn, of
l.ynchburg, who had two brothers at
Washington and Lee.

Dr. WILL R. Pryor is practicing med-
icine in Louisville and has his offices in the

 

under the auspices of the Newark, Long Island, West-
chester, and New York clubs. Others invited to speak at
the dinner are Bruce S. Gramley, national president,
Preston S. Bassett, vice-president of the Sperry Gyro-
scope Company, Frank B. Jewett, president of the Bell
Laboratories and vice-president of the American Tele-
phone and Telegraph Company, and Charles Evans
Hughes, Jr.

JosEpH R. Lone, after graduation from Washington
and Lee, entered the law school of the University of
Colorado, at Boulder, where his father was a professor,
and received his LL. B. in 1925; was admitted to the bar
and practiced in all the justice of the peace courts in Col-
orado Springs for two years. In the fall of 1927 he mi-
grated to St. Louis, where he tried to solve the problems
of the Shell Petroleum Corporation and various assorted
clients. Took his job too seriously and had a breakdown
in health which put him in involuntary
retirement until September, 1935, when
he became associated with his present
firm of Fordyce, White & Williams in
St. Louis. He was married in 1930 “to a
girl from the Ozarks of Missouri.”

FRANK Hurt has received two de-
grees since leaving Washington and Lee,
one each from the University of Virginia
- and Princeton. He was teaching-fellow in
the University of North Carolina for a

Hevl build; oth year in 1927-28, and later went to Johns
ay Oo ——— — . e ° ° e.e
anes tae Sell, emer. 5 Hopkins for special work in_ political

Dr. S. O. Fry gives us his correct ad-
dress as 411 West 114th street, New York City. Dr. Fry,
after leaving Washington and Lee, studied medicine at
the University of Virginia.

1921

GRAHAM A, WHITE is employed by the Sinclair Re-
fining Company at Coffeyville, Kan. He is married and
has one child, a boy, Billie. He was in Lexington last
summer.

GAYLE G. ARMSTRONG has been married nearly sev-
enteen years and has a son sixteen years old, and a daugh-
ter twelve. Is a road contractor and member of the firm
of Armstrong and Armstrong. His son is a student in
New Mexico Military Academy and upon graduation
there will attend Washington and Lee.

1923
EDWARD Harris is to be one of the guests of honor
at the Founders’ Day dinner, celebrating the one hundred
second anniversary of his fraternity, Delta Upsilon, held

~~ - science. He has been assistant professor
in political science in Western Maryland college since

1931.

SAM Krrpy is practicing law in Louisville, Ky., with
offices in the Louisville Trust building.

Maurice (STUDENT) FREw went to the Winnsboro
Mills, Winnsboro, N. C., as director of physical educa-
tion in April, 1936.

1924
J. Metvin LOvVELACE is practicing law in Suffolk, Va.

J. N. (Jack) THomas is minister of the First Pres-
byterian Church, Charleston, S. C. His address is 174
Ashley avenue, Charleston.

J. A. WiccINs is with the Firestone Tire and Rubber
Company, Atlanta, Ga.

1926

Marx W. Macruper, Jr., resides at Woodstock,
Va., where he is connected with the Northern Virginia
Daily as reporter and advertising solicitor. Also, he cov-

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ers news of the county seat and neighboring territory for
the Washington F/erald. When at Washington and Lee
his interests were largely attached to membership in the
Troubadours and other musical organizations that called
for the use of banjo and guitar.

Eart L. VALENTINE is specializing in damage suits
in Lexington, Va. He was recently elected president of
the Rotary club.

Britt Boyer is practicing law in Winston-Salem, N.
C., He has a son about two years old.

1927

W. M. Pope is with Scott & Stringfellow, bankers
and brokers, of Richmond, Va.

SPENCER (CASEY) JONEs is state editor and oil writer
for The Marshall Morning News, The Marshall Evening
Messenger and The Jefferson Journal, published by the
Marshall News Messenger Publishing Company, at Mar-
shall, Texas.

1928

W. C. Macrupber, Jr., is chemist for the Carter Car-
buretor Corporation, of St. Louis, doing research work
of various kinds. He and Mrs. Magruder are the proud
parents of twin boys, born July 31, 1935. The eldest child
is a girl and will not be able to go to Washington and Lee.

Jok CLower is minister of the First Presbyterian
church, Virginia Beach.

Harry B. NEEL is a fellow in surgery at the Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minn.
1929

Ernest E. SANpErS did not complete his law work
at Washington and Lee, but took his last two years of
work and secured his law degree from Texas University,
since which time he has been practicing in Ft. Worth.

Francis T. PARKER, JR., lives at Waynesboro, Va.

Harry Fozzarp is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Fla., with offices in the Florida Theatre building.

BERNIE YOEPP is studying law at Cornell law school.
His home is in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Bos WILLIAMS is studying medicine and is serving
his internship in Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
He graduated from Johns Hopkins two years ago.

1930

James A. CastNEr is practicing law in Newark, N. J.

Ropert E. Crapp, Jr., is practicing law in Freder-
ick, Maryland.

Rosy SUTHERLAND is practicing law in Pulaski, Va.

JAKE” DorMAN has moved from Bastrop to Monroe,
[.a., where he is practicing law in the firm of Montgom-
ery and Dorman. He was married in 1934 to Ethel Ca-
longne of New Orleans, La.

Wayne BrAMLETY? is one the leading lawyers of
Asheville, North Carolina.

Joun P. Lyncu has finished his internship at the
Wisconsin General Hospital at Madison, and is back in
Richmond, Va., for a year in the hospital division of the
Medical College of Virginia. Next year he will go into
practice.

THEODORE MAGRUDER SWANN is the Methodist min-
ister in charge of the Central Methodist church, Clifton
Forge, Va. He was a student at Washington and Lee
during his pastorate at the Lexington Methodist church.

Murrett Kaptan has been for the past year an in-
terne in the Turo Infirmary, New Orleans, La. He will
continue his work this year in the Charity hospital in
the department of pathology.

Ricwarp FE. Goocu is with the Lynchburg Steam
Bakery, Inc., 1208 Clay street, Lynchburg, Va.

C. Irvinc Lewis was back at Washington and Lee
in 1931 for an M. A. degree; then for three sessions at
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., and then
one session at Princeton Seminary. He was married June
15, 1935, to Miss Nancy McCorkle Ross of Richmond.
He has been pastor of the Mossy Creek Presbyterian
church in Augusta county, eighteen miles northwest of
Staunton. His address is Mt. Solon, Va.

Joun L. JENNINGS, JR., graduated at the Medical
College of Virginia; thence to the State of Wisconsin
General Hospital, where he served as Orthopedic resi-
dent two years; and in June of this year began serving
a term as resident physician to the Tampa Municipal
Hospital, Tampa, Florida. On the Orthopedic staff at
Wisconsin were two other Washington and Lee alumni,
Dr. John Lynch and Dr. Reno Porter.

Bos McCrackEN is with the A. J. Miller Company,
manufacturer of hearse and ambulance bodies, in Belle-
fonte, Ohio.

1931

RussELL O. Morrow was recently elected state rep-
resentative for Palm Beach county, Fla. While at Wash-
ington and I,ee he was a member of Delta Upsilon fra-
ternity.

31LLY JONES spent two years at the Harvard Bus-
iness School. He is now with the Louisville Trust Com-

[ 26 |

 

 

 

;

’

+ ae agian

ee ee

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

pany in Louisville, Ky. He labors in the guise of security
analyst and has a desk next to “Father John” Hardwick,
also of the class of 1931, who he says is the “backbone of
the credit department.’

Birt BALLARD is with the Ballard Fish & Oyster
Company of Norfolk, Va., producers and wholesale dis-
tributors.

RENO Porter has been appointed resident in medi-
cine in the State of Wisconsin General hospital, where he
has served for the past two years as an interne.

Av Persry has been appointed trial justice of Tazewell
county, Va.

1932

GEORGE Lupton is president of Coca-Cola Bottling
Works, Inc., Lynchburg, Va. He has been married three
years and has a son about two years old.

CHARLES EDWARD LONG, Jr., studied law after leav-
ing Washington and Lee at Northern Methodist Uni-
versity, Dallas, Texas, receiving his de-
gree from that institution in 1935. He is

 

 

 

LUTHER VIOLET, JR., was married April 25, 1936,
to Miss Marjorie Hogan. They are living at 38 Melish
Court Apt., Melis avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio, where June
has a position with the National Coal Credit Corporation.

WiLit1AM Howarp FLowers, JR., was married June
22, 1936, to Miss Anne Fontaine Maury ‘Tice in Roa-
noke, Va.

Joun Norton HOFFMAN was married June 28, 1936,
to Elizabeth Olmstead Warner in Salisbury, N. C.

EBEN JACKSON is busy and says he hopes that “‘pros-
perity will get around the corner by November, before
the Democrats do.” He lives in Danvers, Mass.

PEEL Rivers had to miss Finals this year. This would
have been his seventh successive set. He has a good job
in Louisville, Ky., and does some swimming and tennis
on the side.

BroTHER AL SyMonps went to the Kentucky Derby
and saw a good many old schoolmates. However he pick-
ed seven losers out of eight, so his en-
thusiasm is not so great.

practicing his profession in Dallas, Texas, Gey, Britt Symonps gets back to Lexing-
at 1218 Republic Bank building. €277% ton occasionally, selling his line of brass
SYN ~—s goods (fire protection equipment, lawn
R. T. Sutetps, Jr., and J. V. FReE- — =! sprinklers, etc.), in Pennsylvania, Mary-
MAN received the degree of M.D. from; —— seeNY ; = land, Virginia and West Virginia, and
the Harvard Medical School in June. Dr. Mw RT TT LL North and South Carolina.
Freeman will interne in Boston and Dr. 7332 = .-> = SS = tiie ch meee
te : ; T= cc JOHN GrirFitus, JR., lives at 41 Mar-
Shields at the Pennsylvania hospital. Me _——

Git Hewson is an educational adviser in a C. C. C.
camp in Cape May, N. J. He maintains his address at
his home, 781 Clifton avenue, Newark, N. J.

WitiraM C. MULLIGAN is with the firm of Winston,
Strawn & Shaw, attorneys, First National Bank building,
Chicago, Il. He was married recently.

BayLis EiicgHToWER has been in the men’s clothing
business for the past three years in Athens, Ala. He has
been married for two and a half years and reports that
he has become a very settled person.

J. C. VARNER resides in Lexington, Va.

Woopson GILLocK is with the DuPont Rayon Com-
pany at Waynesboro, Va., and was recently appointed to
the works council which is an employee’s representation
body.

1933

IeRNEsT F. LEATHEM, Jr., took the New York state
bar examination early in the summer and is located with

Burke & Burke, 72 Wall street, New York.

 

shall street, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

SHELBY W. BLaTreRMAN has been farming at Mays-
lick, Ky., on his grandmother’s farm since leaving school.

 

In Memoriam

ReAR-ApMIRAL RicHarp C. Hottypay, U. S. Navy,
retired, died November 17, 1936, at the age of 77. He
was a student at Washington and Lee from 1877 to 1879
and was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Dr. RicHarp CoLtins Lorp, 1901, died suddenly at
his home in Gambier, Ohio, on November 1, 1936.

Dr. Lord was born January 4, 1882, at Covington,
Ky. He received his A. B. degree at Washington and
Lee university in 1901, M.A. in 1902, and Ph. D. in
190+. His doctorate was taken in chemistry under Dr.
James Lewis Howe, who is still a member of the faculty
of the University.

While at Washington and Lee, Dr. Lord was a mem-
ber of Kappa Sigma fraternity and was elected an alum-
nue member of Phi Beta Kappa in 1924. He held the

| 27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Howard Houston Fellowship in 1902 and was an in-
structor in mathematics in 1903.

At the time of his death he was professor of geology
at Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, having held the po-
sition since 1928. Previous to that, he served as registrar
and before that was assistant professor of chemistry and
physics.

Dr. Lord was married and had two sons. In addition
to the immediate family he is survived by two sisters
and a brother, W. L. Lord, 1907, who is senior master
in mathematics at Woodberry Forest school, Woodberry
Forest, Virginia.

Lucrus Pork Ditton, 1895, died at his home, In-
dian Rock, Botetourt county, Virginia, Tuesday, No-
vember 3, 1936.

Mr. Pewirr DupLery JoNnEs, 1868, of Morelia, Mich-
oacan, Mexico, died November 6, 1936, at the age of 87.

 

Marriages

LyLeE Moores, 1936, was married on October 31 to
Miss Fannie Stokely of Newport, Tenn. They will make
their home in Newport.

Dr. Jonn Craic Crark, B.A., 1931, was married
October 31 to Virginia Hieston Rugh, in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

RupotpH BUMGARDNER and Miss Nettie Virginia
Romm were married in Norfolk, Virginia, June 27,
1936. They took a wedding trip to Nova Scotia and Can-

ada. The bride is a graduate of William and Mary Col-
lege. She taught for a year in Periguex, France. Bum-
gardner received his degree in law from Washington and

Lee in 1935.

Sipnty H. Ketcsety, LL. B., 1934, was married to
Elizabeth McPherson Whitehead on September 26, 1936.
They are living in Norfolk, Va.

Pryton Brown WINFREE, JR., was married to Miss
Adela Elizabeth Cocke on November 25, in All Saints
Episcopal Church, Chevy Chase, Maryland. The best
man was W. W.- Winfree, and the ushers were the fol-
lowing Washington and Lee men: George Craddock,
1930; Mosby Perrow, 1931; Cope Adams, 1933; Jim
Watts, 1936; Kenneth Spencer, 1932, and Clifton Wood-
rum, Jr., 1933.

 

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. FRANK J. BeckwirtnH, 1915, have a
son, Frank Denny Beckwith, born May 21, 1936. He is
the great nephew of Dr. George H. Denny, former pres-
ident of Washington and Lee.

Mr. AND Mrs. EUGENE PomMERoy Martin, JRr., B.S.,

1932, are the parents of a daughter, Joanna Bach Martin,
born November 6, 1936.

Mr. AND Mrs. Ben Ayars, 1931, are the parents of
a daughter, Frances Caroline Ayars, born November 1,
1936. Ben is class agent for 1931.

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN
BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted

Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BoLery

was published in March, 1936, of
special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee
$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

[ 28 ]

 

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

ee

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal
Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

 

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.

Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kiagethe eres? So dol
These Chesterfields -

 
 

iP wv, 4d. $s. 16 DS, “i 7 $. MTP tM
© 1936, LiGGett & MyeRS ToBacco Co

 

