 

“yt ae
eek Wee

a os . , 2) a
AS Ute * eS .
“ Fie wee e irs. oe ae <
ES ee SOS A ae Ne ee
. i “Fy a as oe. nas 5? oo = . ft. Jone ge Oe to
Ser ry enh ie

‘
. Same ene . = . . .
BS P a oor 4 -_ Lae ae SS — f = ;
, “ ? o oe -* * es ui 4 Be olen. ~ ed oe ¥¥ a
- at "| ASS “i eo SEP Me GREG Ns ye SS ae ,
> oP —_ , . ~ :s < - Ptes*% 4
~~ i * q -* ’
= *

- ?> ; rT CTS

Ine

ty

oe

1versl
a

ve
S
ae

.
., b
a ed) wach

. Wi ee
) LA

RA ic.

rth

om
a

4

«
#,

“ir .* rr
Ny

ik

“5
oe
Io

My

4

ay
wr 4
!

_

LA oe
UTI Ns

oa
mB
x

Magaz

a to
7 peg

"iT Ca tt Tt fies ee
? cS

at
aed
3
2
ar
>
ee’
—
T,

ft
.

_ a ,
. ae F ~~

-

7 a a ~

3 x i | a

me - Th " A

tie Re:
% te
> XV

The
mnil

Washington and Lee Un

Alu

February 1940

 

_

=e wee wren TCT we we SS wT eS a eS Se Se SS eS ee ee SOS Oe ae. Se ee ee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee VwvwveVvWwrowewewewevevvevevwevewrovwroeweeewevveowvewewvwevwewww wT wT TTC tT CC CT oe

 

NE Ne VV eee rwVTVeVvrVTVvrVTCTCCCT VT CT CCC CCT CVCCCCTVC’C-CTCTTCT CCT Tee ee eee

Published
twice each year

 

 

Volume I Fall 1939

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
LAW REVIEW

 

LEADING ARTICLES

Preparation for Crime as a

Criminal Attempt «.. <9... 2... ..« John S. Strahorn, Jr.

Price Competition as Affected by the
\ Edward Burling, Jr.

Robinson-Pat Act < ath
obinson-ratman AC | William DuBose Sheldon

 

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

te

Subscription price
$1.50 per year

e HE Law School urges the cooperation of

every former law student in support of the Law Review. We believe that you will be

unusually pleased with its appearance and content and will find it a valuable addition

to your library. Mail your subscription to:

hr ntti linn tnt hitler lla, ln, lla, la, lt le dt de de me oe ee ee ee ee ne ep ep np ep ep ep De we DD De DD DD DD DD

WASHINGTON AND LEE LAw REVIEW

Lexington, Virginia

nnn iene htt ihle.thethhe.thhtr.thht.thhtrrtthhtarihhie..hhte.thhter.thtier..h.thhte.hir.itht.thhttrthetr.lhit..ilkttwillttuithttitltrilttlttwillttitlttwitletitltllltltta.llttrr.llt,..ltas.cllt.ilt.l.l.l.ll lll, li, lm lm lm ll lm dl dls ls ly gg gg ga a a ee eee enn nen ep nen ey

 

 

 

 

Appalachian

Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building |
Baltimore, Maryland

A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House
Central Kentucky

Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois

W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company
Cincinnati, Ohio

Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Covington, Virginia

R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

James M. Faulkner, Liberty Bank Building
Danville, Virginia

R. P. Sanford
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,

Florida
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky

George E. Burks, Commercial Building
Memphis, Tennessee

J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, $02 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia

Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Roanoke, Virginia

Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los

Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

Ek. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State

J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D. C.

R. W. Hynson, American Security Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XV FEBRUARY 1940 No. 3

 

BONO 5 cdi cis iver Mar Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor....GkorGk STUYVESANT JACKSON

cs

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC,

PAGeE A)... tat sc bao JosEru T. LyKes, 1909
Secret 5s: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Treg. 8 ae oe Sruart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carro_it Mrape, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
Joun Bett Towict, 1929

Dr. RrcwHarp Fow.txkss, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for February 1940

PAGE
Inspiration (The President’s Page)...............cscssescciecseeseeseeseees
34th Fancy Dress Honors Kentucky Alummt.............0....0065. +
Paul C. Buford Honored by Shenandoah Life................... 6
George Washington Custis Lee .............:ccscssesereerteeeseeeseeenes 7
Reelin Foscwcestivvl met TPT By oocysts sian 0S. Set ces tos ooh ce 9
Basketball and Wrestling Off to Fine Start.....0.000..00000..c ee. 1]
Local Alumni Association Notes....................0+. bik: Labeda 13
CTASS"PRGCRES TOE TWO. ricscrctetectesssctussseececteeecsoetttt ets AUONWESE 18
Class Notes .......... ss please sndlapd ob ebbavteaiclaiidaseesanlictdra Sranicd ten ena 19
Contributors to Alumni Fund—1939........00.0........ | 29

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“REMEMBER WHEN,” or do you suppose | really wore that hat!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Calyx Board of 1905 “at work”; (2) Graduating Class of 1895; (3) “Old Jeff,” Lee’s body-servant; (4) Dramatic Club
of 1906; (5) Southern Collegians of 1926; (6) Executive Committee posed in old Graham-Lee hall, 1932; (7) Sigma of 1924,

[2]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

INSPIRATION

(The President’s Page)

N January, Mr. W. W. Boxley of Roanoke, for many
years a member of the Board of Visitors of V. M. I.
(and father of our beloved L. J.), died. He left to both
the Institute and the University endowment for a full
scholarship to make possible forever the
education of a boy at each of these two
schools. geittgiolg

A few days later, Mr.. Robert M.
Llughes of Norfolk, for a great number
of years a member of the William and
Mary Board, died. He left an insurance
policy for one thousand dollars) with
Washington and Lee as beneficiary.

* * *

In the fall of last year, Clark ‘Turrell,
one of the finest and most attractive mem-
bers of our senior class, lost his life. His
parents have contributed in his memory a
scholarship fund, the income of which will materially aid
two-boys every year in their pursuit of learning and char-
acter on our campus.

zk Kk

In the spring of last year, Mrs. William A. Glasgow,
Jr., of Philadelphia (lovely “Aunt Jean” to those of us
who knew her) died, leaving in memory of her husband,
one of the most distinguished of our alummi, a scholar-
ship fund that also will make possible the education of
two boys for every future session of the University.

A few days prior to the writing of these lines, Shirley
Riley, devoted Roanoke alumnus, passed away, leaving to
his Alma Mater two thousand dollars “for the aid of de-
serving boys.”

These five gifts represent approaches by widely dif-
ferent angles of affection; but they are alike in being the

product of considered judgment and unselfish concern for

Washington and Lee, for the enlargement and the en-
durance of its service.
k x x
In this moment of deep emotion, I can not forget

other gifts, some sent in from unexpected

 

 

sources, like the gift of $100 as a Christ-
mas present from an honored California
lawyer having no personal relation of any
kind with the school. I am mindful, too,
of the hundreds of alumni who use the
class agent plan as the mode of express-
ing their interest.
“a

Indeed, I am truly grateful for the en-
couragements of heartening letters, the
phrasings of affectionate reminiscence. A
few minutes before I began to write, |
opened a letter from a brilliant young
alumnus of the class of 1937 and found among other gen-
erous comment this statement: “It is only regrettable that
all the people of our country and the leaders of the nations
of the world do not have an opportunity to learn of the

beautiful life—in the atmosphere of Washington and Lee.”
ee

Those of us who, living at this institution which is the
center of affection so impressive, are entrusted with ad-
ministering these aids would testify that they represent

. . . ryn a
more than financial stimulus or encouragements. They are
the renewals of inspiration. ‘lo think of them is to see a
stronger Washington and Lee and to know in our hearts

a stronger faith.

Puatie b.xehs ug”

President

[3 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

34th Fancy Dress Honors Kentucky Alumni

INCE you all heard it over the air, we write this at the
S risk of being repetitious, but we shall try to be brief.
While you were listening to Kay Kyser’s orchestra and
to Dr. Gaines’ speech, we were on the running track of the
gym, and if you had been there with us, you would have
had an even more vivid impression of Fancy Dress than

the one you got from your
radio. If we ever saw any-
thing accurately describable
as a “sea of faces,” that was
it. You know, of course, the
extent of the gymnasium
floor. Well, there wasn’t any
There was hardly a
space left that wasn’t just
this sea of faces and tops of
heads, and costumes—mostly
red. We discovered later that
the owners of these faces
were not sitting in chairs as
we had thought but were
seated the floor. (One
young lady confessed to us
that had the girls been wear-
ing their own dresses, this
wouldn't have happened!)
Gazing thoughtfully at
this scene, we decided not to
try to dance. There were ap-
parently some fifteen hun-
dred others who wanted to
do so, and our skill is limited.

floor.

on

However, we have proved by an extensive survey of opin-
ion that the other fifteen hundred not only danced but en-
joyed it, that it was the best Fancy Dress ever, and that
anyone not present or not taking part was really missing

something.
This year’s

SON.

Callvas.

 

s ball was dedicated to the Washington and
Lee alumni of Kentucky, and the theme was Kentucky in
1875 when Aristides won the first running of the Ken-
tucky Derby and with it the mere pittance of $2,850. Since
then, we understand, the horses have done better.
The Figure had to do with a party after the race, held
t “Iederal Hill,” which was the home of Colonel John
Rowan II and the original “Old Kentucky Home” of the
This house, represented on the south side of the
gym as a brick mansion with white pillars, was surrounded

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

t es
% *
Programme—irst Day, Monday, May 17, 1875. me 7
NUMBERS MARKED \* WILL PROBABLY SIART.*
FIRST RACE -ASSOCIATION PURSE. #300. Dash of 1X miles.
1 Ss —s TT
wer, whee, NAME C4 HORSE. leone ace rhowere. =| Dees OF sIDEe.
y y sre oe BES enewen lure . - teh t. Scdiien of the aut of Measle a. mt ipels h
a he 4 Iniegmouer, os 6 Se aS wares
irae fits 4 yre|Vantdel ost ergot yeetey ° Siegen & Red Car.
see ees So oe ore Yanasins bn by QQROF wee wee A
ee ac: et =P ™, eT Wawers Letnaten dom by Chorihe ew iconalieds
= a ert —_-< =- = ae Ee
RACE-Tn- KMentuchy Derdy (« three year olds; Quem play of pay: Avwoduien to add = second herve to have Barc
Dash of 416 miles and closed with tht follows jug entries
cr = SSS SS = ===> ger
*, ? ste" Beles *.. «the [Planet cute! Bayflower. .. . . .
2 unt Reynolds Anivi'a *s leh f. . . . Australiaa, out Orica Deeb “ . 4 BE
“) Oberle 4. . «  Verderr’ ‘ qumeemen, o whe igeints
“S Sertowt A. ints Ss + MeCreery Bs e-* [Heweirer: ox vet ‘otiDatarie Mrandva wees rons ne
neateld a wte . “* .
‘ £ Sey ret eh Sy “jee ot Sok of Copal iy
aye | artaw cehe - War or out dam of Chavits Woe *
SWesers Birecs .:\RRe Moree. AT... cMecobockdee te desieene .: : Whnie: win Suan
"10d B. Khote-. . >. Searcher 4 |> od iver. dau by Bonuie Scwlan t = tod Biseu ripes.
+ tL sbewhan oi Mer Coll... . che » War pre. dom be nightSt.Geo | bw foes es
I2\Genrral 4) Harding Chmores . ‘che ‘ erk alene, out wette.. - re Merovn.
EY demeret W.0 Hording Ventlater ache ef pandal, ont of Coratine ee ecee r
S18 OW. Merper . . . . SPonbrnerk ibe - Peecton, out f onary Wntten he with Red re Be
Sou. Eich . . Settee. ees. ss eeeeeiraeeee: i sub ureges Bin.
i a yy I ORS ys A -
“1S A. Heene Mich vr le Ee Man be ‘War Dance, dam br Selferine. . . lon er-erey. oni tn
Iytewuel J. Satyers  ?.iali Bruce. 1) bee. . ©. Requires, out of Au ora aby . Wg jvrogge, wx
Sema) RAyere Lh: A wot (Phsetm, out of Baltic A
Dt dames A, Gilesras “th aah 7 jie out of lecome . « pe | vine Red ~~
SP dere A, tiriestead. [bet + bf... ; oo out of Lave of Sidney .* be
oo Wb iame a's mes . ‘Pray mate. oo BhOcec [Eronet, eutot Fall Cry... ..« lw a. with Ret
pat Alen Barhfrt.. *, lee... «Baywood, out of Lute... .. - (White, ons +
52. K hen, Meresed Co fied Westley - +o. bee... .theamington, ot lrem « «~~, Miack Stripes.
Sheree -jteeee sc e::, Nemmeceeroes <2: | BF Wen ance
5. Nwiget |. 4... King as “Be. 1 lPhesten, eu of Copied... | ive
Bilas 4A. C. Frankie Momtams ss ou! 6: ‘ [Marry of the Wen owt of Wars Red Siegves aod Med Cap
Sane Nace Franklin mive® ... - tche- | janet, out of J ailie Lew eee ts] tee
Ladeo W Barten =: | oh ieMbete® 5 Wace sete eee Ce eee
Aten, W. Dantes « . . Gey Beet... Ooo o V . out of Bouy Rortia BO. feccoce
Wi fach on B@o. cots} an oe fbe - [Yandel nut of 1 TP heres ro
‘ % cates *s teens 2 fc cht * eet oan o a ake > when " Te sees Bed Co
rit Cheatham. [hay Tis LL bre. . < [Vandal! dem by Childé Harrold. . . ws ore 4
Wpdt tisedon 6 23) es 2188S «Weed owe of Veleg Sateesscbde [sass ce
4 Me sveme ss “Wethine Sprague eb. oo . hee the Tagore! . see ae
* . vt be with White Cresceat
ow wa we. Corsi xi : LpAsceneton + ee, sales sete iI=aS. sovost of Lilly Ward. te Rom Fie Whue Sach (aed Cap
THIRD RACE-Associatios Purse, $500 ; second Horse ve hee ve Gr0o, mile heats J
elle eniecad’ so Mabe is eet of Disle .....- "
4 or i, ss ae ees View. ia: clad ie ae Somes
o22 22 ‘S3re.|Veedel pe oeeen whe eth fen Bele
a wre sy" : paar Ee eeeee’s ae = v: by Mie coccs an hte

 

 

 

 

Reproduction of first Kentucky Derby program by courtesy
of Churchill-Downs officials. Taken from Fancy Dress pro-
gram, to which we are indebted for some of the

accompanying description.

on the other three sides by the sky and distant views on
The opening scene of the pageant which the
Figure represented, disclosed the band, which previously
had played for the Derby crowd at Churchill Downs, set
up on the porch of the famous old Rowan spring-house ;
a stable boy on guard at the hitching yard gate ; and picka-

ninies (represented by Fon-
taine Gilliam and Edwin
Gaines ), who had slipped
away from quarters to keep
a watchful eye on the “go-
inngs-on up at the Big

~ House.”

Then entered Ernest
Woodward II and Miss Dolly
Burks as Colonel and Mrs.
Rowan who were making
anxious last-minute arrange-
ments for the ball in honor
of Colonel and Mrs. H. P.
McGrath (represented by
Howard Dobbins and Miss
Virginia Ann Jones), own-
ers of Aristides. They had
hardly got to first base in

‘this matter (as so often hap-

pens before parties) when
Governor Leslie of Kentucky
and his “First Lady” came
in in the person of John
Winn Watson, Jr., president
of the ball, and Miss Mary

Charlotte Garber. Other prominent Kentuckians then ap-
peared, and soon they all drank Mint Juleps (represented
by gingerale) to the health of the Governor, the horse,
and other important people of the moment.

When the last guest had been greeted, and after each

[4]

“Tirst Lady of Kentucky.”

had paid his respects to Governor Leslie, Colonel Rowan
reminded his guests that “My Old Kentucky Home,”
written at Federal Hill in 1852 to Stephen Collins Fos-
ter’s music is always sung at Federal Hill functions, and .
presented Miss Ginny Simms to sing it.

Jockey Oliver Lewis, rider of Aristides, was presented
to the Governor and other guests, and, as a symbol of his
victory, was decorated with a horseshoe of roses by the
After that, the couples in the
igure waltzed away to the tune of “Jeannie With the

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Light Brown Hair.” Subsequently the music was all Kay
Kyser, swing, and enthusiasm.

The costumes were very colorful and realistic this
year. Many of the more daring prospective 1875 Ken-
tuckians even went so far as to grow extensive sideburns
and other forms of whiskers to carry out the scheme. We
believed at first that this was only the old superstition of
never shaving during examinations but turned out to be
wrong as usual. Most of the men were either Kentucky
Colonels, Landowners, ‘Track Officials, River Gamblers,
or Jockeys, all in appropriate garb. Most of the ladies
were hoop-skirted, low necked, beautiful, and generally
quite up-to-date.

It was an affair that future alumni will never forget
whether they had a good time or not. And they did.

 

About Our Covers

GETTING away from the series of campus scenes and
personalities which make up the stock-in-trade covers for
alumni magazines, we are presenting, this time, a picture
of a wood-carved Washington and Lee coat-of-arms—
not the official seal, which would not have been as ap-
propriate for this sort of work, but the one which appears
on the bookplates of fine books in the library.

The carving was done by Miss Mary Barclay, secre-
tary to Cy Young, who has been producing beautiful work
of this kind for five years. Starting with no previous ex-
perience, she has rapidly become an expert, able to turn
out a magnificently-carved candle-chest for Queen Eliza-
beth of England. The hobby is expanding now into a
thriving business with orders for all sorts of carved ob-
jects coming in to Miss Barclay. We think this particular
piece makes a cover to be proud of.

The snow-scenes that appear on the back cover were
taken by Henry Austin Cooke, 1942, after one of the re-
cent arctic blizzards.

Photographs from old Calyxes of the pictures appear-
ing on pages 2, 16 and 17 are the work of ‘Thomas Flem-

ing, 1942.

 

Jor Arnocp, LL.B. 1937, has become a member of the
firm of Allen, Duncan and Duncan of Lexington, Ken-
tucky. The new firm will be called Allen, Ducan, Duncan
and Arnold.

 

Mayor Frank Hayne, 1915, has the interesting post
at present of military attaché to the American Legation
in Finland.

 

W. GoopripGE SALE, Jr., B.A. 1924 and LL.B 1927,
has become a partner in the firm of Brown, Jackson and
Knight of Charleston, West Virginia.

 

Greetings from President Lykes

My FELLow ALUMNI:

On behalf of your official representatives, | would
send each of you hearty 1940 greetings. Particularly
would I thank sincerely those members who have rendered
such fine assistance to their association during the past
year. The members of your Council and Board of ‘Trus-
tees have all evidenced their interest and loyalty in a sub-
stantial and helpful manner.

We can all feel a satisfaction in the improvement
within our organic structure: namely, securing the ex-
clusive time of our able secretary and the broadening of
control of your management to a larger number of indi-
vidual alumni chapters. In this accomplishment we are in-
debted much to Dr. Gaines and the University Board of
Trustees.

And what about the future? Catastrophe has over-
come a large part of the world. The ideals, as represented
by our Alma Mater, should be the guiding light for us.
Let us each, therefore, do his full share toward their per-
petuation. Contributing to the welfare of Washington and
lee is a contribution to the welfare of future generations.

JosEru T. LyKgs,
President Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

[5 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Paul C. Buford Honored by Shenandoah Life

Ast October, when the Shenandoah Life Insurance Com-
a pany underwent a reorganization which called for
new management of the most reliable and efficient type,
the Board of Directors promptly called upon Paul C. Bu-
ford, A.B. 1913 and LL.B. 1915, to be their chairman, and
general counsel for the concern. On December 5 it was an-
nounced that, following the
death of E. Lee Trinkle,
former president of the
company, Mr. Buford had
heen elected president. He
is also to be a member of
the board and to retain his
position as general counsel.
Though there had been ex-
pressions of doubt over the
soundness of the company,
these doubts were dispelled
as Mr. Buford took office.
“The appointment meets
with my entire approval,”
said George A. Bowles,
Virginia commissioner of
insurance.‘ The board has
made a very wise choice.”

Mr. Buford is taking
over a big job which might
be called a credit not only
to him but to the college
and law school that trained
him, because the company
of which he is to have
charge, with assets of over
nine million dollars, stands
forty-ninth in volume of
business among the three
hundred. insurance com-
panies in the United States. He will have to lead a big
organization through a difficult period.

aul C. Buford, though he has been identified with the
city of Roanoke for twenty-four years, was born in Laf-
ayette County, Mississippi, in 1893, and he lived in Mis-
sissippi and Tennessee until he came to Lexington for an
education. He also went to school at the Mississipp1
Heights Academy and at the Southwestern Presbyterian
University at Clarksville, Tennessee, which is now South-

 

Paul C. Buford, A.B. 1913, LL.B. 1915

western at Memphis, Washington and Lee’s erstwhile
football rival. While an undergraduate, he was a mem-
ber of Alpha ‘Tau Omega, Phi Delta Phi and White
I‘riars ; and in his senior academic year he was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa.

The practice of law, which he began in Roanoke in
1915, was interrupted by
the war two later
when Mr. Buford entered
the Second Officers’ Train-
ing Camp at Fort Myer,
Virginia. As Second Lieu-
tenant of Field Artillery he
served with the Third

years

Field Artillery regiment in
Irance from August 1918
to May 1919. He was pro-
moted to a first lieutenancy
and was discharged at
Camp Dix in May, 1919.
His service to the bar
and to the city of Roanoke
has been continuous and
constructive. His first con-
nection was with the law
firm of Martin and Chit-
wood, but since 1926 he
Hall
have associated un-
der the firm name of Hall,

and Mr. Harvey T.
been

suford and Carter. He has

been successful in law and
business, having been a
director of the Colonial-
American National Bank
and the Comas Cigarette
Machine Company before
his appointment to the Board of the Shenandoah Life. He
is a member of the Roanoke, Virginia State, and Ameri-
can Bar Associations and of the American Judicature
Society and is a past president of the Roanoke Bar As-
sociation.

Meanwhile, however, he has always been able to find
time to engage in civic and charitable activities. He has
served on the Board of Trustees of the Roanoke Com-

(Continued on page 10)

[ 6 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

George Washington Custis Lee

By Jas. LEwis Howe

(Notre: As University Historian, Dr. Howe is work-
ing on the administration of General G. IV. Custis Lee;
he would be very glad to receive any reminiscences of
student life during this
period, and especially
any personal recollec-
tions of General Lee.)

N studying the history
of Washington and
lee during the admin-
istration of General
Custis Lee (1871-1897)
it has been interesting
to note the paucity of
recollections of him on
the part of the old stu-
dents and others who
came into contact with
him. —Ttwo memories
stand out in the minds
of all: his extreme
courtesy and his equal-
ly extreme bashfulness.
One who was brought
up in Lexington in the
seventies writes that
“he was very reserved
and even bashful. I had
the pleasure of coming
in contact with him on
several occasions, when
a boy, but to save my
life I cannot remember
one incident growing
out of this contact that
would be of interest.’

 

to remember anything particular about him, except that
the cadets always had great respect for him as a man and
instructor; we found him to be very retiring; . . . very
different from General
Jackson, who was often
ridiculed by the cadets
but looked up to as a
man of very great learn-
ing. The only thing |
can recall is that in dis-
missing the section un-
der instruction, General
Lee would say: “That
is all today, gentlemen,’
very different from fin-
ishing with the other
instructors.’ (J. L.
Waring, Wilmington,
Ohio. )

One who has since
attained great distinc-
tion as educator and
publicist (Dr. James H.
Dillard, Charlottes-
ville) writes: “I saw
General Custis, as we
called him, almost ev-
ery day during the four
years when I was at
Washington and Lee
University, and occa-
sionally, especially in
my last year, I had a
brief conversational
contact with him. My
earliest impression was

(John i Senseny, President G. W. Custic Lee, 1871-1897 that in him were em-

Alexandria, Louisiana. )

Custis Lee was professor at the Virginia Military In-
stitute for five years before becoming president of Wash-
ington and Lee. He was professor of Military and Civil
Engineering, or as he seems always to have put it, “Civil
and Military Engineering,” but for two years at least he
had also the exclusive charge of the two upper classes in
Chemistry. A cadet of the period writes: ‘It is very hard

bodied all the qualities,
manners and characteristics of a perfect gentleman.
“This impression has continued and deepened during
the years that have passed. One could not but be im-
pressed by his air of gentleness. This might be mistaken
by some and taken as a sign of weakness or indifference,
but gentleness like his had in it not the slightest touch ot
weakness or indifference.

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“A friend of mine for some failure or misdemeanor,
was summoned to appear before the president. As he
came out of the office I happened to meet him. I asked
him how he got on, and his reply was that he was ‘cer-
tainly sorry for the General.’ I can understand how Gen-
eral Lee’s words and manner lacked the tone of severe
reproof, but I have no doubt that what the General said
did my rather idle friend far more good than would have
heen accomplished by a harsh rebuke.

“It is an utterly false interpretation to think of gentle-
ness like his as savoring at all of lack of courage and ef-
fectiveness. I have always been thankful for my acquaint-
ance with this ideal type of Christian manhood.”

Bishop Winchester, who was a student under both
General Robert E. Lee and under his son, says: “General
Custis Lee stands out in my memory a picture of stain-
less manhood, dignified humility and Christian faith,
which deeply impressed me. His was a striking figure as
he walked over the beautiful campus, sat in his quiet of-
fice, or visited the classrooms, when the students, in def-
erence rose to do him the honor they felt he so well de-
served.

“One of the distinguishing marks in his personal ap-
pearance at all times was exquisite neatness in his dress.
It was understood in Lexington that in summer he put
on a fresh linen suit daily. He was an example to the stu-
dents in this respect.’”’ (May it not be that Washington
and Lee’s reputation of having the neatest-dressed stu-
dent body in the United States traces back to the influence
of President Custis Lee? J. L. H.)

‘His attendance upon services in the college chapel
during the week and upon his church services on Sun-
day was marked with a reverence that I felt permeated
his heart and mind. And so I think of him today as a man
sent of God to be an example to his devoted students.
Having had two such presidents as Generals Robert E.
l.ee and George Washington Custis Lee I naturally real-
ize that my life has been wonderfully blessed, and I am
thankful that my Alma Mater has been presided over by
successors who have transmitted the same Christian vir-
tues that the father and son of the Southern Confederacy
bequeathed Washington and Lee.”

When the choice of a successor to General Robert FE.
lee as president was being debated by the trustees, one
or two members of the Board raised an objection to Gen-
eral Custis Lee on the ground that he was not a church
member, although they recognized him as a Christian gen-
tleman. It is to be noted that the first time the bishop
visited Lexington after General Custis Lee’s election and
hefore his inauguration, he presented himself for the rite
of Confirmation.

A former professor of Washington and Lee (Addi-

son Hogue) tells this incident: “Beyond his quiet and
courteous manner | remember only this joke on ‘C’ (a
faculty colleague), though General Lee did not mean it
as a joke. ‘C’ had torn into bits a piece of paper, and then
rose to throw them into a waste-paper basket. One tiny
piece fell on the floor, and ‘C’ either did not notice it, or
else thought it made no difference. General Lee very cour-
teously waited a few minutes, and thn rose and picked up
the piece and deposited it in the basket. A smile went
around the room, as we all glanced at ‘C’. To this day I
think of it when I stoop down and pick up a wee scrap of
paper.” The self-effacement of Custis Lee is clearly ap-
parent when this is the sole recollection regarding him of
one who sat with him for some three years on the faculty.

Of Custis Lee as a neighbor, we have the following
from one who, in her girlhood, lived next door to the
president’s house. ““He was so self-effacing and retiring
that while we have very happy memories of him, there
are not so many salient incidents to recall. Well do I re-
member the morning he called to welcome us to our new
home in Lexington and to Washington and Lee. He wore
no beard then, but a moustache, and with his iron-gray
hair, erect carriage and courtly manner | felt I had never
seen a more handsome man. The General was the kindest
of neighbors, and many a time there was served at our
table some delicacy he had sent mother. I recall on one
occasion Patterson, his butler, appeared bearing the larg-
est tray I had ever seen. It held some very fine Lynn-
haven oysters on the half-shell. I have never forgotten
that appetizing lay-out.

“Another incident I recall was when the General sent
for a student, who was not at all measuring up to the re-
quirements of Washington and Lee, to come to his office.
The General broke the news so gently and pleasantly to
the student that his name would be erased from the Reg-
ister of the student body, that, on meeting some of his
fellow-students after the interview he remarked to them,
‘General Lee is the finest man I know and he is so kind;
he told me that I couldn’t be feeling well, and would bet-
ter return home.’ With one accord his listeners shouted,
‘Why boy, don’t you know you've been fired?’ ”’

I close with one of several recollections furnished me
by Dr. Leslie L. Campbell, who was a student (and Ph.D.)
of the University in the eighties, which again illustrates
General Lee’s method of dealing with students. “One
clear afternoon, when House Mountain seemed but a
stone’s throw away, four rampant students, W. C. Lud-
wig, J. W. W. Bias, Paul M. Penick and the writer, struck
out to see the sunset and the sunrise from the top. of the
mountain. As the students walked on, the mountain re-
ceded, and only allowed weary feet to reach the top about

(Continued on page 10)

[8 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Radio Executive at Thirty

NYONE who has a couple of good radio stations to sell
Psa run over to Lexington, Kentucky, and talk
with a member of the class of 1931 who seems to buy
and sell radio stations and newspapers as if they were hot-
cakes. As president of the Southern Network, the cor-
poration in charge of
the Mutual Broadcast-
ing System’s expan-
sion throughout the
South, Gilmore Nunn
has a big job, and it
would look as though
much of the radio
business of the south
and southwest might
come under his wing
before he gets through.

Today, Gilmore
Nunnelley Nunn is ex-
clusively in the radio
business, but his start
was as a newspaper
man. Born in 1910
in Amarillo, Texas, he
received grammar-
school education in
several parts of the
southwest and began
his newspaper career
“as a punk peddling
papers on a corner
when a few summers
old.”” He continued in
various newspaper jobs
until he came to Wash-
ington and Lee, where
he graduated with an
A.B. and also walked
off with a Certificate
in Journalism. He was then made general manager of
the Rosewell (New Mexico) Morning Dispatch as well
as vice-president of the New Mexico Publishing Com-
pany, both of which were founded by his grandfather and
then carried on by his father who gradually built up the
Lindsay-Nunn Publishing Company, owning newspapers
in many southwestern towns.

In 1931 he married Miss Josephine ‘Townsend of
Amarillo, and they went to live in Roswell. In 1932, how-

 

Gilmore Nunn, 1931

ever, he was transferred to Pampa, Texas, where he be-
came general manager of the Pampa Daily News. By this
time there were three in the family, a daughter, Betsy
Townsend, having been born that year. During Roose-
velt’s first term, Mr. Nunn was to be found in Washing-
ton as newspaper cor-
respondent and _politi-
cal columnist.

It was after this
that he and his father
interested
in the possibilities of

became

radio as an adjunct to
the newspaper busi-
ness, and they began
to acquire and con-
struct stations in the

1936

they purchased the

southwest. In

lexington Harald and
American Broadcast-
ing Company in Lex-
ington, Kentucky,
where younger Nunn
now repaired to head
both concerns. Then
the Nunns decided ra-
dio be their
chief interest, and the

was to

newspaper was drop-
ped. After that they
set out to increase their
radio holdings. In 1939
they acquired the Ash-
land Broadcasting
Corporation, operating
WCMI with studios
in Ashland, Kentucky,
Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, and Ironton, Ohio. ‘They then constructed KFDA
in Amarillo, ‘Texas. ‘To complete the organization, the
Southern Network was formed in July, 1939, with head-
quarters in the Lexington Radio Building. It looks as
though the acquiring process will go on, with Station
KROD of El Paso (now being constructed), next in line.

Outside of his business, Mr. Nunn’s interests are
wide, as would be shown by the organizations he 1s con-
nected with, Having started in college as a member of

[9]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Phi Kappa Psi, Pi Delta Epsilon, Sigma Delta Chi, White
Friars, Troubadours, Glee Club, and director of the band
and the Southern Collegians, he became, after graduation,
a member of the New Mexico State Central Committee,
Texas NRA official, official of the Texas Racing Associa-
tion, member of the Executive Committee Texas Demo-
cratic campaign, president West Texas Young Demo-
crats, president of Tampa Board of Trade, president of
the Lexington Board of Trade, chairman of Lexington
and Fayette Board of Aviation, member of the City Zon-
ing Commission, on’ the National Advisory Committee on
Radio, director of the Kentucky Press Association, and
director of the Community Chest. He belongs to the Na-
tional Press Club, National Association of Broadcasters,
Rotary, Pyramid, and the [roquois Hunt and Polo Club.

For a man only thirty, all this put together is real
achievement. What the future will bring forth ought to
be even more brilliant.

 

Paul C. Buford Honored

(Continued from page 6)

munity Fund, is past president and now a director of the
Roanoke Chamber of Commerce, is vice-president of the
Roanoke Tuberculosis Association, a member of the Roa-
noke Kiwanis Club, the Shenandoah Club, the American
legion, and the Military Order of the World War. He is
a member of the Second Presbyterian Church, of which
he has been an Elder for some years.

Mr. Buford was married in 1924 to Anne Warren of
I“vanston, Illinois. They have three children, Anne, 14,
Guy Warren, 9, and Paul C., Jr., 7.

 

BEIRNE STEDMAN, LL.B. 1909, has spent twenty-five
vears as a writer on legal subjects. He was associate edi-
tor of Michie on Banks and Banking; of the Encyclopedic
Digest of Florida Reports; of Michie’s Digest of Ten-
nessee Reports and of various other legal publications of
recognized superiority. He collaborated for many years
in editing the Encyclopedia of United States Supreme
Court Reports and its various supplements.

 

Joun T. McVay, 1926, has recently become national
advertising manager for the Huntington Publishing Com-
pany of Huntington, West Virginia, publishers of three
newspapers there. ‘l’o quote the company’s announcement :
“Mr. MeVay has been connected with our office for twelve
vears since graduation from Washington and Lee where
a B.S. in Business Administration and several seasons of
football, basketball and crew prepared him for today’s
business appointment,”

George Washington Custis Lee

(Continued from page 8)

midnight. After a sleepless night, by a fire that reddened
their eyes with smoke, the sadder, if not wiser students
made their weary way, breakfastless, direct back to col-
lege, which they reached several hours after their first
classes. Bedraggled and faint, they made their way in
trepidation to General Lee’s office. As was his custom,
General Lee arose, and stood quietly, while the students
endeavored to explain that they had expected to reach
home in time for breakfast and for college. All that Gen-
eral lee said to the luckless students was: ‘Young Gen-
tlemen, the next time you leave town to spend the night,
it would be well to get permission before you leave.’ ”’

 

Marriages

JONATHAN Forp, 1938,-was married in New York on
December 22, 1939, to Miss Barbara Hotaling.

Joun FRANKS GANONG, 1939, married Miss Marian
Mish of Lexington on the fifteenth of last December in
Sausalito, California.

 

GABRIEL DE LA Hapa, 1917, has recently become as-
sociated for the general practice of law with Mr. Damian
Monserrat and Mr. Damian Monserrat, Jr. Their offices
are in the Banco Popular Building in Puerto Rico.

 

The late Miss Annie Jo White, taken at her desk
in the library in 1904

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Basketball and Wrestling Off to Good Start

By Bup Levy, 1942

TALLED somewhat by the mid-year examination pe-

riod, Washington and Lee’s winter sports machines
shifted into high gear with the coming of february and
got under way the second half of what promises to be a
highly-successful season.

The varsity basketball team, piloted for the first time
hy Coach Harold B. (Cookie) Cun-
ningham, was among the leaders of
hoth the State and Southern Confer-
ence races as it began its post-examina-
tion drive. The blue-clad courtmen reg-
istered eight victories in their first ten
assignments, and these were enough to
put them in third place in both stand-
ings as February made its bow. North
Carolina and Duke were the only clubs
ahead of the Generals in the fifteen-
team Conference race, while the Uni-
versity of Virginia and Richmond

were tops in the twelve-team State
scramble.
Coach Archie Mathis’ wrestlers

were well on the way to another un-
defeated season as they headed for the
home stretch. The matmen, although
plagued with injuries, put their first
three foes to rout with little difficulty.

And the swimming team, beaten out in the Conference
race for the first time in five years last season, hit the
comeback trail with success in its first engagement, down-
ing North Carolina State, 42-33.

Highlights of the first half of the basketball season
were victories over Maryland and Western State Teach-
ers College, of Kentucky. Cunningham’s cagers whipped
Maryland in their own back yard on January 20 in a
game which the dopesters had figured as a ‘“‘sure thing”
for the Terps. And the whipping was a thorough one, too.
The score was 44-25. Maryland had previously scored
over Clemson’s Conference champs, Duke, Richmond,
and Princeton.

The Generals topped Western Teachers, long-time
rulers of the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Associa-
tion, by a 44-34 count at Louisville during their Christ-
mas vacation trip. Also beaten on that jaunt was Morris-
Harvey, of West Virginia, which fell at Charleston,52-40.

 

Harold R. Levy, 1942

Other Washington and Lee victories have come at the
expense of V. P.1., which was beaten twice (34-25 and
42-22), and Randolph-Macon by a 43-27 tally. The Gen-
erals’ first two triumphs, scored at the expense of Dan-
ville and Alfred Holbrook of Ohio, were reviewed in the
last issue of THe ALtumni MacGazine. Wake Forest,
first-division Conference outfit, and
George Washington University were
the only teams to beat the Generals in
their first ten starts.

Dick Pinck, sharp - shooting for-
ward, and Howard Dobbins, towering
center, have been the spearheads of the
Generals’ attack this year. Pinck, who
will be remembered for his 34-point
performance against Richmond last
year, tossed in 116 points in his team’s
first ten games, and stood fifth among
the Old Dominion’s point-getters early
in February. Dobbins was close behind
with 107 points.

Returning to school after the Christ-
mas holidays, Mathis’ wrestlers lost
little time in getting their 1940 cam-
paign off to a good start. They posted
a 33-3 win over Richmond’s Y.M.C.A.
outfit a couple of days after their return, and a few days
later routed West Virginia’s forces, 28-8, before 3,000
persons in Morgantown. A week later, the General mat-
ment dropped North Carolina State, 25-5, in Doremus
gymnasium.

Tommy Fuller, unbeaten captain of last year’s fresh-
man grapplers, has scored falls in each of this year’s three
varsity matches to lead the Generals in individual per-
formance. Fuller is a 145-pounder. George McInerney,
135, veteran of three seasons of varsity mat wars, has won
two falls and a decision in his three matches this year,
while Harold Reed, who took over the 121-pound bur-
den this year after winning an intramural title last win-
ter, scored falls in each of his first two varsity bouts and
won the third on a decision. Captain Henry Braun won
on a forfeit, a fall and a decision in his first three starts,
while Barney Farrier, 165-pound veteran, started with a
decision and then pinned his next two foemen,

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Arkansas Boyhood

THE UNWILLING JourNnEY. By C. P. Lee, 1932. 303 pp.
Macmillan, $2.50.

Mr. C. P. Lee’s first novel, The Unwilling Journey, is
a story of boyhood and youth in Arkansas during the
1920’s. We are first introduced to the hero, Richard
Hanna, when, a boy of ten or eleven years, he is living in
the dusty village of Matthews, a town of two or three
houses, a store, and a railway station at which the daily
train stops only on signal. His father, who is the clerk in
the store, is a pleasant man with little ambition; but his
mother, not an entirely pleasant woman, is nevertheless
determined and capable, and not at all satisfied with the
opportunities for education and social advancement that
Mathews provides her son. Her dissatisfaction is quite
understandable, for there is no school in the town, and
Richard’s only companions are the negroes and a little
girl, the daughter of haughty neighbors, to whose plan-
tation home he is occasionally invited. His is a barren
life, and though he has known nothing else, he begins to
sense its emptiness through his mother’s discontent. His
pleasures are solitary ones—playing by himself in the
barn, wandering through the cotton fields, or lying under
the trees by the bayous, listening to the strange and some-
times beautiful sounds of the natural world around him.
As an occasional diversion he is taken to visit rela-
tives, mostly hard, disappointed, or morose and neurotic
women, whose manner of life, if slightly more prosper-
ous than that of his parents, is quite as lonely and cheer-
less. From these surroundings the family is suddenly re-
moved, bed and bolster, by Richard’s mother, whose
scheming for a fuller life for her son has at last resulted
in finding her husband a position in the metropolis of
Pine Bluff, which is enjoying the last booming years of
the twenties. Here the family settles down to the hum-
drum routine of middle-class city life, and Richard goes
to school for the first time. At school he gets along with-
out distinguishing himself, falls in love without daring to
speak to his inamorata, and comes up against the dis-
tressing and mysterious problems of adolescence. When
the boom breaks and his father loses his job, Richard be-
gins to show that, wherever his affections may lie, he is
the son of his mother. Through his attempts to earn money
for his family while his father is unemployed, he becomes
fully aware of the ugliness and vulgarity of the average
man’s life; and although he has not yet finished high
school when the book closes, the reader does not doubt
that he will do all he can to keep his future from being
cut to the common pattern.

Although the narrative drags in places, particularly
during the early chapters, and although the author fails,

in this critic’s opinion, to delineate his characters with
sufficient sharpness (even Richard during the Matthews
years is too much the average boy to be an individual),
the story is well told—at times eloquently told. But the
best part of the novel is not the history of Richard’s ca-
reer. Its strength lies in the picture it gives of social dis-
solution and in its vivid and sensitive descriptions of the
Arkansas landscape. As a study of social decay it con-
trasts the slow, picturesque disintegration of the agricul-
tural civilization which the first families had brought to
Arkansas, with the rapid, ugly, frightening collapse of
the commercialized society that had supplanted it. The
author has a gift for making the reader share in the
melancholy gloom or disappointed hardness that has eaten
into the lives and surroundings of these last remnants of
the agricultural aristocracy, as he makes us shudder at the
ugliness, brutality, and insecurity of the new era. For the
sights and sounds of the world around him the author has
a keen eye and a sensitive ear. The dusty, choking, insuf-
ferable heat of the hero’s home town and of the surround-
ing territory; the lush, entangled woods that edge the
hayous ; the green, slimy water of the bayous themselves,
as well as the vulgar, ugly sights and sounds of the me-
tropolis of Pine Bluff remain vividly in the reader’s mem-
ory. Particularly commendable is the author’s description
of a country barbecue, which is done with admirable real-
ism and with ocasional touches of humor and satire. The
preacher who, advancing to the stand to give the invoca-
tion before the “speaking,” automatically extended both
hands, “palm upward, as a signal for the audience to rise,
although none were seated,” the political speech and the
baby-kissing, the perspiring women and scabby babies,
the hunks of barbecue, fly-infested, the grounds, strewn
with paper and half-consumed buns and stained with to-
bacco juice, are not lovely sights, but they are authentic
Americana. This chapter is perhaps the best in the book.

The Unwilling Journey is too unevenly inspired to be
called a great book, but for a first novel it is unusually
good, One can say, truthfuly, that this novel introduces a
writer of considerable promise.

RowLanp W. NELSON

 

Dr. Tucker on Tax Exemption

The January issue of the Southern Economic Journal
carries an article by Dean Robert H. Tucker called “Some
Aspects of Intergovernmental ‘Tax Exemption.” This was
Dr. Tucker's presidential address to the Southern Eco-
nomic Association, and it deals with the evil effects pro-
duced by tax-exemption securities. A stumulating discus-
cussion, it suggests curt interpretation as a remedy.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Cincinnati

On last Saturday, December 23, the Cincinnati alumni
had their Christmas luncheon in one of the private dining
rooms of the Metropole Hotel. The following graduates
and students were present:

Dr. Charles Tabb Pearce, 1889, Mr. Harry W. Gass-
man, 1908, Mr. E. Clyde Hoge, 1908, Mr. Roger J. Bear,
1914, Howard Schriver, Jack Reiter, Bob Brower, Alfred
Kreimer, John Menzies, Spence Kerkow, John Tomlin,
Robert Hilton, Robert E. Lee, Blake Dock, Alfred Allen,
Robert B. Shreve, Jeff Hudson, ‘Tom Morris, Larry
Bradford, Bill Webb, Doug McCamish, Bob Lambert,
Bob Boyce.

Dr. Pearce talked briefly to the gathering. He stated
that though he had attended seven universities, three in
this country and four abroad, his real allegiance was to
Washington and Lee. He also told several rather interest-
ing and humorous incidents which occurred during his
years in Lexington.

Clyde Hoge told of his football days and specifically
about the last game he played against Virginia just pre-
ceding the long period in which there were no athletic re-
lations between the institutions whatever.

Harry Gassman also addressed a few remarks to the
group and particularly to twelve of the boys who had
graduated from Walnut Hills High School and who, dur-
ing their years there, had each attended his classes in
mathematics.

There also were short talks by some of the younger
graduates.

-

 

Dr. Gaines and Cy Young to Visit
Alumni Chapters

Durinc February and March Dr. Gaines is going on
an extensive speaking tour, during which he will visit six
alumni chapters. On February 29 he will be in Chatta-
nooga, on March 1 in Birmingham, on the fourth, New
Orleans; fifth Houston; sixth Dallas; and finally on
March 7, in San Antonio.

Cy’s trip will take him on the twentieth of February
to Jacksonville, to ‘Tampa on Washington’s Birthday, and
to Miami on the twenty-third. He will then make a long
hop to Chicago where he expects to be on March 8 and
in Cleveland on March 11.

San Antonio

Honorinc the birthday of General Robert EK. Lee on
January 19, the San Antonio alumni met in the St. An-
thony Hotel for a dinner and business meeting.

‘The meeting was presided over by Albert Steves, Jr.,
of the class of 1906. As master of ceremonies, he intro-
duced R. R. Witt of the class of 1913, who spoke in-
formally on his experiences at Washington and Lee and
of the friendships he had made while in school.

After dinner the following officers of the local asso-
ciation were elected for the coming year : Russell B. Wine
of the class of 1912, President; W. W. Fowlkes of the
class of 1935, Vice-President; Albert Steves III of the
class of 1930, Secretary-Treasurer. The meeting ad-
journed after the customary round of college experiences
and tall stories.

Those attending the meeting were: Edward R.
Downie, W. W. Fowlkes, Joe G. Glass, Jack Elton Gug-
enheim, B. C. Harnisch, Walter George Lehr, William
Watts Palmer, Albert Steves, Jr., Albert Steves III, Sam
Steves, Walter Steves II, Hall Park Street, Russell B.
Wine, R. R. Witt, and Frank Hugo Wolff.

The San Antonio chapter is planning another meet-
ing about March 1, at which time Dr. Gaines is expecting
to be in San Antonio. The parents of students and pros-
pective students, prospective students, and alumni from
San Antonio and nearby towns will be invited to attend.

 

Louisville

THE LovuIsvILLE ASSOCIATION reports two meetings.
‘The first was a luncheon for the election of officers with
the following duly installed : George E. Burks, 1927, Pres-
ident: M. Peel Rivers, 1933, Vice-President; Ernest 8.
Clarke, 1928, Secretary and ‘Treasurer. About thirty of
the faithful were there and listened to Coach Frank
White, athletic director of Male High School, tell of the
forthcoming basketball game between Washington and
[.ee and Western in the high school gymnasium.

The other meeting was held in the South Room of the
Brown Hotel on Lee’s Birthday as the annual celebration
of that event. Thirty-two members were present as
follows :

J. H. Hardwick, Charles Semple, Jr., Edward A.
Dodd, R. B. Morrison, Oldham Clarke, William Karra-

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

ker, W. Magruder Drake, Henry K. Hill, S. ‘Tilford
Payne, Jr., Fielden Woodward, B. Lawton, Stanley P.
McGee, Jr., Victor Snow, Temple Lewis, Dr. Alvin B.
Ortner, Martin Kaplan, Dr. Alexander M. Forrester,
John J. Davis, George Burks, Peel Rivers, Robert Stein,
Norman Her, Robert P. Hobson, Murrel D. Klein, Frank
Glenn, Don Wallis, Ernest S. Clarke, Jr., Horace M.
Barker, Ernest B. Walker, Edward Matz, Robert Foree,
and Lawton Calhoun.

In addition there were three fathers present, namely :
Mr. Alfred T. Bishop, father of Alfred T. Bishop, Jr.;
Mr. A. C. Krieger, father of Alfred C. Krieger, Jr.; and
Mr. Luther Stein, father of Robert Stein.

Mr. Mattingly was guest speaker and made a most
interesting talk concerning various activities of the uni-
versity and the aims of the faculty and trustees for the
future. His talk was of particular interest because of his
intimate association, in his capacity as registrar, with the
students and his knowledge of many amusing incidents in
their lives. All were delighted to see him and greatly ap-
preciated his braving the elements to come.

New York

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association of
Greater New York held its annual dinner and election of
officers at the Lafayette Hotel, New York, on Decem-
ber 8, 1939. About fifty alumni residing in the New York
area attended, including Judge Edwin C. Caffrey, past
president of the General Alumni Association. John Drye,
Jr., president of the New York Chapter, presided.

This meeting was one of the most enthusiastic held by
the New York alumni in recent years. It was made even
more so by the presence of a delegation from Lexington
consisting of Dr. Raymon ‘T. Johnson of the Washing-
ton and Lee Law School, who delivered the principal ad-
dress, Alumni Secretary “Cy” Young, and Coach “Tex”
Tilson. Messrs. Young and Tilson also made brief ad-
dresses dealing with the fields of their respective special-
ties, namely the alumni program and the plans for the
athletic department.

In his address, Dr. Johnson outlined his idea of the
university's future. His address was received with de-
cided approval and was the subject of many comments
afterward.

The following officers were chosen after report by the
nominating committee headed by Bill Owen: William
Moseley Brown, 1914, president ; Nelson W. Burris, 1926,
vice-president; Edward W. Lee, 1914, secretary and
treasurer.

The following are members of the Council for 1940:
Ethan Allen, 1931, James A. Castner, 1929, Carl A. Foss,

 

1920, Roy J. Grimley, 1921, I. W. Poindexter, 1923,
Clarence L. Sager, 1914 (former president of the Gen-
eral Alumni Association), Fred deR. Strong, 1935,
Haven Walton, 1931, Stuard A. Wurzburger, 1928.

The New York Chapter is making plans for a very
active year and hopes to make a tangible contribution to
the interests of the University in this section of the coun-
try during 1940. Monthly luncheons are held on the first
Wednesday of the month at Planters Restaurant on
Greenwich Street. In addition, a new experiment is being
tried in the form of monthly suppers at the Midston Club,
Thirty-eight Street, especially for those who cannot at-
tend the noon luncheons. The suppers are held at 6:00
o'clock on the third Wednesday of each month. All visit-
ing alumni are invited to attend these gatherings.

In addition to the above, the annual beer party has
been set for February 16 and the annual dinner-dance for
the latter part of March. The Council is holding frequent
meetings, and the class agent plan for the 1940 commence-
ment season will be vigorously supported. An attempt
will be made to get each of the more than four hundred
alumni living in the Greater New York territory to make
at least some contribution to the University through his
class agent this spring.

Those present were: Ethan Allen, Thorton W. Allen,
Rayford Alley, Seth Baker, Holbrook Barber, William
5. Barker, Morris T. Booth, Irving Bricken, Leigh Bul-
lock, William Moseley Brown, Nelson Burris, William R.
Burton, Edwin C. Caffrey, James Castner, John Dyre,
Jr., Holmes Dyer, Carl A. Foss, Roy Grimley, Dr. S. F.
Hampton, John J. Hudak, H. Harrison Huster, Stimeon
Hyde, Prof. Raymon Johnson, William E. Johnston, Ed-
ward W. Lee, Jack G. Marks, Allan McDowell, George
McGeory, J. N. McNeill, Dr. C. W. McNitt, John Mick-
lus, Jr., Graham Morrison, William T. Owen, W. J. L.
Patton, Immet W. Poindexter, J. L. Powell, H. W.
Roberts, Jr., James Salinger, Henry Sherwood, Jr., Dr.
R. ‘T. Shields, Jr., John Spohr, Fred Strong, William
Tallyn, Warren EK. Tilson, Haven Walton, Thomas A.
Wilkins, Clark B. Winter, Stuard Wurzburger, and Cy
Young.

 

Washington

The Washington Chapter of the Washington and Lee
University Alumni Association gathered at the Raleigh
Hotel on December 15, 1939, for its usual Fall meeting.
This meeting was held in lieu of the annual Fall smoker.
This smoker generally preceded the football game with
University of Maryland, which was cancelled this year
due to the fact that Thanksgiving Day was advanced a
week by Presidential edict.

After the business of the meeting was terminated, the

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

gathering was favored by a short address by Max Far-
rington, director of athletics at the George Washington
University. He told the group about the new athletic re-
lations which have been entered into by the two institu-
tions. While the number of contests engaged in was quite
a surprise, the fact of a home-and-home arrangement in
their football relations was quite an agreeable one and
one which this group greatly favors. It will be the first
time in some years that Washington and Lee University
has played in Washington, and the local chapter wishes to
commend the athletic directors for the arrangements.

In conclusion, our guest speaker, Cy Young, gave a
very entertaining and informative talk. His presence at
the meeting was greatly appreciated, and we hope, with
his continued interest in this chapter, that it will flourish
as it should. Cy pointed out the desirability of keeping
contact with the University, and that all the cooperation
possible should be afforded to our respective class agents
so that he may advise other alumni of our proogress.

Prior to the foregoing speeches, the annual election of
officers was held. The chapter again honored Richard W.
Hynson, 1906, with the presidency, and elected W. O.
Burtner, 1917, to the vice-presidency, and J. A. Hanly,
III, 1934, to the position of secretary-treasurer. The for-
mer incumbents of the last two offices were favored with
selection on the executive committee, which committee
also was augmented by the appointment of Brian Bell,
1911. As the official representative of this chapter at the
forthcoming meetings of the Alumni Council, Charles
Suter, 1923, and Brian Bell, 1911, were selected.

Alumni present at the meeting were: Richard W. Hyn-
son, Charles Suter, Marshal Nuchols, Brian Bell, Ed-
mund C. Campbell, W. O. Burtner, F. P. Guthrie, Alex-
ander M. Walker, A. D. Trundle, Eugene E. Krewson,
Wallace Werble, O. C. Bell, Howard C. Owings, Don
Dunlap, Preston Moore, Melville Cox, Frank Price, Ken-
neth Routon, Stuart Miller, Harold Weston, Graham N.
lowden, Ben Clarkson, Hillard Harper, Wilson Roach
and John A. Hanley.

 

Danville

The annual meeting and election of officers of the
“Old Belt Association” was held at the Hotel Danville,
January 6, 1940.

The meeting was called to order by the president, Dr.
C. H. Wilson. After supper was served, business was re-
sumed. The following were elected officers for the com-
ing year:

R. Paul Sanford, president; Jack L. Neal, vice-
president ; W. R. Taylor, secretary and treasurer ; and Dr.
C. H. Wilson, alumni committeeman, all of Danville, Vir-

ginia; the executive committeemen at large were John G.
Boatwright, of Danville, and Wm, F. Stone, of Martins-
ville, Virginia.

Speeches were made by Cy Young, alumni secretary,
Captain Dick Smith, graduate manager of athletics, Tex
Tilson, head coach of football, Riley Smith, assistant
coach of football, and Harold Cunningham, new basket-
ball coach. Other visitors were Mr. A. A. Booth, secre-
tary of the Danville Chamber of Commerce, Dr. Richard
Fowlkes, president of the Richmond Alumni Chapter,
Mr. John Oliver from the Richmond News Leader, and
a number of students.

All other business having been finished, the meeting
was adjourned. At this point all the members went to the
City Armory to see the Washington and Lee-Wake For-
est basketball game.

Those present were: Wm. F. Stone, Waldo G. Miles,
Chas. M. Wood, Jas. W. Perkinson, Jas. G. Watson, Z.
V. Johnson, Jr., R. Paul Sanford, J. P. Penn, Jr., Jack
L.. Neal, Billy Wiseman, W. Preston Harper, H. 5S.
Pierce, M. Milton Herman, Dr. C. H. Wilson, Ernest E.
Franklin, David L. Ragland, John W. Gibson, Jr., P. K.
Miles, J. G. Boatwright, E. B. Bagby, Jesse W. Benton,
Lindsay Moore, W. R. Taylor, Lea Booth, Murray Rippe
and Henry Roediger, Jr.

 

In Memoriam

WitiraMmM Buttirr Dixon, LL.B. 1884, died on No-
vember 24, 1939, at his home in Louisville, Kentucky. He
had practiced law there for many years.

BENJAMIN F. Stepp, M.A. 1886, died January 4,
1940. For many years he had been Professor of Kduca-
tion in Wake Forest College, North Carolina.

Puitie EF. Cottims, 1908, died last November from
a heart attack which he suffered while duck-hunting on
his farm in Morris, Illinois. A native of Tampa, Florida,
Mr. Collins had been a banker and prominent citizen of
Grundy County. He is survived by his widow and two
children.

Jupce Roser’ F. Hurcnueson, LL.B. 1910, judge of
the Fifth Judicial Circuit of Virginia, died January 12,
1940. His son, Robert, received his L...B. from Wash-
ington and Lee last June.

J. Surrvey Rirey, LL.B. 1916, died suddenly at his
home in Roanoke, Virginia, on January 27. Mr. Riley had
been vice-president and treasurer of the Roanoke Coca-
Cola Bottling Works. He had also been instrumental in
developing aviation in his home city. He is survived by
his stepfather, Mr. G. D. Whitesell of Roanoke, and a
sister, Mrs. Georgia Knisley of Galax, Virginia.

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

FAMOUS GENERALS: (1) The football team of 1894; (2) Gymnasium team of 1901; (3) Washington and Lee’s first basketba
(7) Ready to mow ’em down in 1903; (8) Start of the “Evening Dispatch” meet ¥

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

team, 1907; (4) The tennis club of 1907; (5) Captain Dick Smith of the 1912 baseball team; (6) Albert Sidney Boat Club, 1914;
von by Washington and Lee in 1923; (9) The last varsity boxing team, 1935.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Agents for I940

1939A—Allen T. Snyder, Lexington, Virginia.

1939L—J. Vaughan Beale, Franklin, Virginia.

1938A—Harry M. Philpott, Lexington, Virginia.

1938L—William L. Wilson, 523 Washington St., Cumberland,
Maryland.

1937A—Fielden Woodward, Kentucky Home Life Building,
Louisville, Kentucky.

1937 L—Stanley C. Higgins, Jr., Fayetteville, West Virginia.

1936A—Angus Powell, care of David M. Lea and Company,
Box 1538, Richmond, Virginia.

1936L—William H. Seaton, Jr., 307 Brooks St., Charleston,
West Virginia.

1935A—L. P. Gassman, care of Arcade Manufacturing Co.,
Freeport, Illinois.

1935L—John Meredith Graham, Jr., Rome, Georgia.

1934A—Rev. Darby W. Betts, Cates and Goodfellow Streets,
Church of the Ascension, St. Louis, Missouri.

1934L—Taylor Jones, 508 Consolidated Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida.

1933A—Luther Violett, Jr., Dun & Bradstreet, East Ohio Gas
Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

1933L—William F. Stone, Martinsville, Virginia.

1932A—R. Leighton McKinney, 30114 W, Woodward. Deni-
son, Texas.

1932L—Judge D. J. Savage, 1107 Highland St., Charleston,
West Virginia.

1931A—Ben M. Ayars, Y.M.C.A., Columbia, South Carolina.

1931L—O. J. Wilkinson, Jr., 995 N. Fourth Street, Columbus,
Ohio.

1930A—Edward S. Graves, Law Building, Lynchburg, Va.

1930L—Leonard H. Davis, Citizens Bank Building, Norfolk,
Virginia.

1929A—E. F. Madison, P. O. Box 510, Bastrop, Louisiana.

1929L—Philip R. Becker, I'welfth Floor Calahan Building,
Dayton, Ohio.

1928A—Edward H. Miller, 301 North Washington Street,
Alexandria, Virginia.

1928L—R. W. Jordan, Jr., Lawyers Title Insurance Corpora-
tion, Richmond, Virginia.

1927A—W. E. Gage, Jr., 711 Falls Building, Memphis, Tenn.

1927 L—George D. Varney, Berwick, Maine.

1926A—Emmett W. MacCorkle, Jr., Air Reduction Sales Co.,
Hawley Building, Wheeling, West Virginia.

1926L—Earl Valentine, Lexington, Virginia.

1925A—Rev. Bruce F. Gannaway, Haines City, Florida.

1925L—George Wilson, Jr., 414 Masonic Building, Owens-
boro, Kentucky.

1924A—Otis Howe, Wabash, Arkansas.

1924L—John M. Lovelace, American Bank and Trust Co.
Building, Suffolk, Virginia.

1923A—Joseph R. Long, 506 Olive Street, St. Louis, Mo.

1923L—Cyrus W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

1922A—Troy C. Musselwhite, Williams Building, Orlando,
Florida.

1922L—W. E. Neblett, Lunenberg, Virginia.

1921A—John L. Patterson, Pierce Building, St. Louis, Mo.

1921L—William M. Tuck, South Boston, Virginia.

1920A—Thomas McA. Stubbs, 705 Healey Building, Atlanta,
Georgia.

1920L—Pinkney Grissom, 18th Floor Rep. Bank Building,
Dallas, Texas.

1919 —Gus A. Fritchie, Slidell, Louisiana.

1918 —John L. McChord, 308 Euclid Ave. Building, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

1917A—J. L. Williams, 250 Stuart St., Boston, Massachusetts.
1917 L—Lafayette B. Chafin, Williamson, West Virginia.

1916A—Frank O. Steele, 907 Courtland Street, Greensboro,
North Carolina.

1916L—Robert W. Curtis, care of Roanoke World-News,
Roanoke, Virginia.

1915A—Paul C. Thomas, Commercial Bank Building, Blue-
field, West Virginia.

1915L—K. L. Shirk, 33 North Duke Street, Lancaster, Pa.

1914A—W. J. Wilkins, Federal Compress and Warehouse Co.,
Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

1914 L—Ben D. Smith, Somerset, Kentucky.
1913A—John L. Crist, P. O. Box 1045, Charlotte, N. C.

1913L—Howard P. Macfarlane, Maas Office Building, Tampa,
Florida.

1912A—Dan Owen, Crozet, Virginia.

1912L—Wayne Ely, Suite 1105 Bank of Commerce Building,
St. Louis, Missouri.

1911A—James M. Barker, 605 Spruce Street, Bristol, Virginia.

1911L—Robert A. Russell, Rutburg, Virginia.

1910A—Joseph R. Blackburn, 1714 McClung Ave., Charleston,
West Virginia.

1910L—Hugh R. Hawthorne, One Broadway, New York,
New York.

1909A—Kester W. Denman, Lufkin, Texas.

1909 L—Reuben Ragland, 606-12 Consolidated Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida.

1908A—Horace W. Phillips, Hardeeville, South Carolina.
1908 L—Dozier DeVane, Florida Bank Building, Orlando, Fla.

1907 —Dr. Donald W. M. MacCluer, 2834 N. E. 32nd Place,
Portland, Oregon.

1906 —

1905 —Walter G. Riddick, 1116 Boyle Building, Little Rock,

Arkansas.
—K. I. McKay, Maas Office Building, Tampa, Florida.
—Dr. Herbert S. Osburn, Gloucester, Virginia.
—J. Wood Glass, Nowata, Oklahoma.

—Matthew Page Andrews, 845 Park Ave., Baltimore,
Maryland.

—R. A. Watson, 242 Court Square, Charlottesville, Va.
—J. W. Garrow, 19 Courtland Place, Houston, Texas.

—Edward A. O’Neal, 58 East Washington St., Chicago,
Illinois.

—Alumni Office.

—J. W. Lattomus, Citizens Bank Building, Wilmington,

Delaware.
—Alumni Office.

—Alumni Office.
—B. A. Judd, 25 Broad Street, New York, New York.
—Wm. C. Morton, Martinsburg, West Virginia.

1904
1903
1902
1901

1900
1899
1898

1897
1896

1895
1894
1893
1892

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1892

Joun J. Davis is a member
ber of the law firm of Davis,
Boehl, Viser and Marcus, Ken-
tucky Home Life Building, Lou-
isville, Kentucky.

 

Ek. L. GreEN is in the De-

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

ball players, says he still has to
follow the baseball news no mat-
ter what he is doing or trying to
get at. He is hard at work on a
new book, “The Story of Mary-
land in the Building of the Re-
public.”

 

 

partment of Ancient Languages,
University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina.

W. REYNOLDS VANCE and his wife were visitors to
lexington last Finals.

1893

Captain Guy E.. MANNING, United States Army, Re-
tired, lives at 164 North Remington Road, Columbus,
Ohio. He was planning a trip to California in his trailer
during the summer.

Harry Prarrt is a Professor in Columbia Bible Col-
lege at Columbia, South Carolina. He says that he is teach-
ing or has taught more actual or prospective foreign mis-
sionaries than all the theological seminaries of the Pres-
byterian Church in America combined, covering the same
period of years.

R. E. Wane lives at 74 Spencer Avenue, Sansalito,
California.

1898

RAN SureEtps is Dean of the School of Medicine,
Cheeloo University, T'sinan, Shantung, China.

A. A. Wurat practiced dentistry at Charleston, Mis-
sissippi, until 1911. Since that time he has
been farming on the Mississippi Delta.

1899
Dr. G. B. Caprro is still practicing
medicine in the Professional Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

Dr. JamEs A. McCrurs is pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church, St. Petersburg,
Florida. His son, Matthew T. McClure, is

in his third year at Washington and Lee. |
& co ii

OO i y A 4 AF
tes. jd
a

1901 .
MatrHEew Pace (Potty) ANDREWS,
one of Washington and Lee’s greatest base-

 

 

H. M. Housron is with the
John Bremond Company, in Austin, Texas. He has a
grown son and two winsome sub-deb daughters. He says:
‘As my temples gray, I only hope the next world will be
as good as this one.”

1902

SAM PRICE is a member of the law firm of Price and
McWhorter, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

W. Dewey Cooks is Vice-President and Treasurer of
the Southern Fertilizer and Chemical Company, Savan-
nah, Georgia. He sends his best regards to all inquiring
friends.

1903
G. C. Gipps is still Attorney General of Florida with
official address at Tallahassee, but permanent home in
Jacksonville. He hopes any member of his class visiting
in that part of the state will call to see him.

J. Morton McCune is a commercial orchardist,
farmer and general insurance agent. He took his Master
of Science in agriculture at Cornell University and taught
school for a number of years. His address is Raphine, Va.

J. C. McPueerers is with the Duke Power Company,
Charlotte,

North Carolina. His address remains un-
changed at 125 W. Vance Street, Charlotte.

1904

JuLt1aANn BoucHELLeE is judge of the
Thirteenth Judicial Circuit of West Vir-
ginia and lives in Charleston.

H. S. Ospurne is Episcopal rector of
two old colonial churches in Gloucester
County, Virginia. He married Miss Fanny
Scott Beverley of Essex County, and they
have four “bright and healthy children,”
Wwill” two girls and two boys. The older boy is a
freshman at Washington and Lee this year.
Mr. Osburne writes: “There is a real af-

     
   
 

wnt

~ / bao; yt

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

fection in my heart for Washington and Lee and an ever-
growing respect and admiration for the high standards
of the institution.”

1905

W. E. MacCrenny lives at 116 St. James Avenue,
Suffolk, Virginia.

Davip A. BRADHAM is an Attorney-at-Law, Warren,
Arkansas.

HANEY B. CoNnNER lives at 3648 North Boulevard,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He is Past Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of the State of Louisiana of Free and Ac-
cepted Masons. He writes an interesting letter reminiscent
of his life while a student at Washington and Lee.

1906

B. E. CLark is serving the State of Oklahoma as State
Highway Maintenance Engineer, located at the Capitol
Building. He also enjoys operating a small livestock ranch
along with a coal mining property. He deals in real estate
and is interested in oil properties His three children are
in college. He wishes to pass on his philosophy of happi-
ness which is: “God put us all here for a definite purpose
and that is to make this a better world for our fellow men
to live in.”

A. W. Ru’vrAN is a member of the firm of Rutan, Mize
and Kroese, Attorneys-at-Law, First National Bank
Building, Santa Ana, California.

R. B. SprnpDLE is Judge of the Corporation Court of
Norfolk, Virginia.

1907

THe REVEREND Mr. A. R. Larrick attended com-
mencement last year to see his son graduate. The son,
A. R., Jr., was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a
scholarship to the University of Minnesota, which will
enable him to go on to his Doctor’s degree. A. R., Sr., is
minister of the Presbyterian Church in Plant City, Fla.

M. L,. PAINTER is practicing law in Beckley, West
Virginia. He served one term as Mayor of Beckley, was
prosecuting attorney of his county for four years, and has
served some time as Judge.

C. F. BAGLey is president of the Union National Bank,
Fayetteville, Tennessee. He has a son at Washington and
Lee.

1908

CHarces T. RANDOLPH is an Attorney-at-Law in
Carmi, Illinois.

G. C. Gaprikx is District Superintendent of the Cen-

tral Pennsylvania Conference of the Evangelical Church.
His home is in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. He has the su-
pervision of thirty-six ministers and the churches which
they serve.

Joun W. NEwMAN is practicing law in Little Rock,
Arkansas .His offices are in the Pyramid Building.

Pritip P. Pac is with the Chicago Journal of Com-
merce and the LaSalle Street Journal, 12 East Grand Bou-
levard, Chicago, Illinois.

H. A. MAun_Ler is Superintendent of Schools of
Thomasville, Georgia, where he has been for twenty-one
years. He has four sons all grown and away from home.
The oldest received his degree from Washington and Lee
and is now a Presbyterian preacher.

1909
Kpwin C. Carrrey is Judge of the Essex Circuit
Court, Newark, New Jersey.

L,. J. Boxy has his offices in the Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia.

Sorspy JEMISON is Assistant Vice-President of the
Young & Vann Supply Company, Industrial Supplies,
Heavy Hardware, Birmingham, Alabama.

Jor Lyxes, 17 Battery Place, New York, President
of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association, is one of
the owners of the Lykes Steamship Lines.

1910

ORANGE RICHARDSON is with the Duquesne Lumber
Company, Columbia Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Hucu Hawrnorne is Vice-President of the Poca-
hontas Fuel Company, Inc., 1 Broadway, New York.

Pruitie W. Murray is a member of the law firm of
Lett, Murray and Ford, First National Bank Building,
Newport News, Virginia.

Wyarr C. Heprick writes under the letterhead of
Wyatt C. Hedrick, Inc., Architects and Engineers, First
National Bank Building, Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

Cary JOHNSTON is a member of the firm of Carneal,
Johnston and Wright, Architects and Engineers, Atlantic
Life Building, Richmond, Virginia. They have done some
fine work in Lexington.

GrorcE West ALLISON is Commissioner of Public
Works of the City of New York, Borough of Richmond.
He was recently elected President of the Board of Trus-
tees of the Staten Island Academy. He will have a son at
Washington and Lee in 1940.

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

E. B. LEMon is a member of Wendel-Lemon, Inc.,
Rental Agents, 26 West Kirk Avenue, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. W. Raper is still working for the National Park
Service. His permanent address is Lewisburg, West, Va.

1911

L. L. Humpureys is president of The Security Na-
tional Bank, Duncan, Oklahoma.

James M. Baker, JR., represents the Baltimore Amer-
ican Insurance Company of New York in Bristol, Vir-
ginia. He is married and has a son,
James Ashton Baker, aged 15, now in
high school.

M. E. Kurru is a member of the
law firm of Andrews, Kelley, Kurth
and Campbell, Gulf Building, Houston,
‘Texas.

Tom WaATtTSsON is practicing law in
the Peninsular Telephone Building,
Tampa, Florida.

L. G. Scorr is City Attorney of
Bluefield, West Virginia. He was re-
cently appointed referee in Bankruptcy.

Jupcr Joun F. Brown, Elkins, West Virginia, has a

son in Notre Dame.

1912

Jupcr A. G. LivELy is a member of the law firm of
Burns and Lively, Burns Building, Lebanon, Virginia.
Clarence C. Burns, the other member of the firm, is a
member of the Law Class of 1901.

J. S. SmerER?’z lives at 310 Sherwood Avenue, Ra-
leigh Court, Roanoke, Virginia.

D. W. McNEtt is Trial Justice of Rockbridge County.
His home is in Lexington, Virginia.

THero P. Price is Assistant Superintendent of Agen-
cies of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company.

Tommy GLascow is president of Glasgow-Stewart
and Company, Distributors of Automobile Supplies and
Home Appliances, Charlotte, North Carolina. He has five
children who keep him stepping “high, wide and hand-
some

J. FRANK Key is Secretary of the Columbia Paper
Company at Buena Vista, Virginia.

WaLTER L.. HopkKINS is a member of the law firm of

 

Hopkins and Hopkins, Law Building, Richmond, Va

B. C. Moomaw, Jr., is Secretary of the Covington,
Virginia Chamber of Commerce, and an Orchardist on
the side. He is married and has a boy 16 and a girl 12.

W. L. (Prix) WessTer is President of the Webster
Motor Sales Company, Schenectady, New York.

Wo. N. Hope n is a dentist in Warrenton, Virginia.
He says: “Chiefly my activity has been in the history of
the dental profession in Virginia through Colonial and
Ante-Bellum periods, and a day each week engaged in
study of source material has brought
much of interest.”

1913

Caprain IFrep Rernicks, U. S.
Navy, back from China ,tells of having
dinner at Saigon, China, with J. Presly
Thornton, Washington and Lee, 1913,
Grace Thornton, his wife, and the three
beautiful Thornton daughters. All are
well and quite accustomed to the war
that surrounds them.

THORNTON W. ALLEN, composer,
owner and publisher of the famous
“Washington and Lee Swing” and hundreds of other
outstanding college songs, has signed another contract
with Warner Bros. Pictures for the use of the V. M. I.
song, ““V. M. I. Spirit,” in the new picture, “Brother Rat
and the Baby.” The same song was featured throughout
the earlier picture, “Brother Rat,” which was partly made
in Lexington. Word also comes from the Allen office that
a new contract has been signed with Decca for the mak-
ing of another phonograph record of the ‘Washington
and Lee Swing.”

Tuomas IF. WaLkKEr has been practicing law in
Wytheville, Virginia, since 1922. He managed to keep out
of politics.

S. W. Mayrussy, Jr., is a County Judge, living at
1712 N. W. 38th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Iptson C. JALONICK lives at 3524 Welborn Street,
Dallas, ‘Texas.

‘Tom KIRKPATRICK is a member of the law firm of
Kirkpatrick and Burns, Peoples National Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

Witt E. Warp since leaving school has devoted his
whole time to the practice of law in his home town, Starks-

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ville, Mississippi. He married Miss Clara Henson of Oko-
lona, Mississippi, and they have two sons, William Hen-
son Ward, aged 17, and Erwin Connell Ward, aged six.

pwArD WEEKS LEx is still the very active Secretary
of the New York Chapter of Washington and Lee alumni.

He is in the insurance business at 175 Fifth Avenue, New
York City.

IrRED McWAane has recently moved his residence to
97 North Princeton Circle, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Hrnry PEEPLEs is Secretary and Treasurer of O’Neal
and McLain, Inc., Decatur, Georgia, selling insurance and
working in property management. He has a son in the
freshman class at Washington and Lee this year. He says:
“I wish to send most congenial greetings to each and
every member of the class of 1913 and tell them if any of
them comes to Atlanta and does not notify me, I will be
greatly disappointed.”

Joun J. D. Preston is Chairman of the Public Ser-
vice Commission of West Virginia at Charleston.

J. P. RicHArpson is a partner in the Taylor-Richard-
son Clinic, Clinic Building, Ellensburg, Washington.

1914

STEPHEN F*, Cuapwick, Past National Commander,
the American Legion, is practicing law in Seattle, Wash-
ington.

MERRIMAN S. SmirH practiced law in ‘Texas until
January, 1918, and since that time has been in the general
insurance business in Bluefield, West Virginia. He has
two daughters, Betty, graduated at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College last June, and Lucille who graduated
at Bluefield College in May.

Wayne Exy is a member of the law firm of Leahy,
Walther, Hecker and Ely, Suite 1108, Bank of Com-
merce Building, St. Louis, Missouri.

Jimmie THORNTON is with the Home Insurance Com-
pany “On the Square,” Huntsville, Alabama. Jimmie’s
very attractive daughter is a student at Mary Baldwin
College in Staunton and attends the dances at Washing-
ton and Lee.

LEE R. GRABILL, JR., gives no news of himself, but
from the letterhead used we gather that he is in the Legal
Department, Patent Division, E. I. DuPont DeNemours
and Company, Wilmington, Delaware.

1915
A. W. McCain is vice-president of the Chase No-
tional Bank, 20 Pine Street, New York. He attended the

twenty-fifth reunion of his class last June. His three sons
range in height from six feet to six feet four inches.

JAMEs E. BEAR was in Switzerland last spring study-
ing theology in the University of Basle. He is back at the
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, con-
tinuing his work in the New Testament Department. He
is married and has two daughters and a son, aged 14, 11,
and 2, respectively.

Nicuotson B. Apams is professor of Spanish at the
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. He has pub-
lished several textbooks in the field of Spanish.

T. H. Sruxes has recently been elected to his fourth
consecutive four-year term in the State Senate of South
Carolina and also is head of the Democratic Party in that
state with the title of Chairman of the State Democratic
Iyxecutive Committee. He lives in Manning, S. C.

Joun D. Wortruincron has owned and edited a
weekly newspaper, The Aegis, in Hartford County, Mary-
land, for twenty-five years, and it is credited with being
one of the best in that state. He owns a farm on the edge
of the town of Bel Air, Maryland.

1916

CHARLES T’. HERNDON is practicing law in Kingsport,
‘Tennessee. He has a son eighteen and daughter who grad-
uates from high school this year.

Joun M. Rarnes has been in Little Rock, Arkansas,
since 1921, with the ‘Travelers Insurance Company. He
was transferred to the Philadelphia office in 1928, return-
ing to Little Rock in 1932, and became State Manager in
March, 1933. His son, John M., Jr., graduated from
Kemper Military School at Boonesville, Missouri, and
entered Washington and Lee as a Junior this fall.

FRANK O. STEELE is with the North Carolina field
service of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, and at present
is a conferee in the office of the Internal Revenue Agent
in Charge. He clung to the life of single blessedness until
1928 when he finally succumbed to a “Georgia Peach’ and
was married at Asheville, North Carolina. They have a
daughter nine years old.

1917

Hersert G. Samira is Judge of the Corporation Court,
Newport News, Virginia. He has a son in the freshman
class at Washington and Lee this year.

Bos Kang is in the Legal Department RCA Radio-
tron Division, 201 North Street, Camden, New Jersey.
His daughter, Patty, is in her second year at Randolph-
Macon, and his son, Bob, Jr., twelve, is planning for

[22]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Washington and Lee. He and Mrs. Kane visited Lexing-
ton in the spring and at Homecoming.

Gus OTTENHEIMER is in partnership with his brother
in Little Rock, Arkansas. The firm is Ottenheimer Broth-
ers, Ladies’ Ready-to-Wear.

Homer A. Jones is President and Ixecutive Chair-
man of the Washington Trust and Savings Bank, Bristol,
Tennessee- Virginia.

Roy D. McMILLan has been appointed Administra-
tive Assistant under the AAA program and assigned
Wood County, Texas, which is 61 miles
from his home (Paris, Lamar County). He
has to deal with about 6,000 farmers.

Marion WILLIAMSON is engaged in
importing various fancy foreign woods into
the United States which he manufactures
into veneer at his plant in Cockeysville,
Maryland.

Wiis (BILL) HaGaAn is with the Con-
nors Steel Company, Birmingham, Ala.

1918

Joun SorrEvis is Executive Editor,
Scripps-Howard Newspapers, 230 Park Avenue, New
York.

5, 2B.
E.

pany,

Moreton, Jr., lives in Brookhaven, Mass.

*

V. Bowyer is with the Roanoke Gas Light Com-
121-123 Church Avenue, S$. W., Roanoke, Virginia.

H. P. Porker is married, lives in Sharon, Pennsyl-
vania, and has a boy sixteen years old who has been at-
tending Hill School, and a girl fourteen.

Joun HeENry Younc lives at 4432 Windom Place,
N. W., Washington, D. C. He is married and has a boy
eleven years old.

CHARLIE (DUKE) LOMBARDI writes from his home,
149 Mountain Avenue, Revere, Massachusetts, where he
was recovering from a serious illness with streptoccocus
double pneumonia. He says his strong constitution and
good heart did the work.

1920
ALEX WALKER is a Security Analyst, Registration Di-
vision, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washing-
ton, D. C. His son will graduate from St. Albans next
year, and he hopes he will then enter Washington and

 

SS
SS ,

——
_—= ——-~
-—

—-

Lee. His residence address is Apartment 107, 2401 Cal-
vert Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Horr D. Stark is practicing law at Lawrenceville,
Georgia. He says he still has the same wife and the same
two boys.

Levin Nock is Principal of the Bloxom High School,
Bloxom, Virginia. He has held the position for fourteen
years. His is a widower and has a daughter five years old.

Henry Trorrer is a Ford dealer in Pine Bluff, Ark.

Howarp McCase is still connected with the Wm.
Hengerer Company, a department store in
Buffalo, New York.

Joun Dryer is a member of the law firm
of Larkin, Rathbone and Perry, 70 Broad-
way, New York.

1921

Wo. Tuck is a member of the law firm
of ‘Tuck and Mitchell, South Boston, Va.

Dr. SAM Raines helped get all the Sig-
mas in the vicinity of Memphis, ‘Tennessee,
together last February. They had a good
———=____time. He was a visitor to Lexington in the
summer. He has three sons and a beautiful little daughter.

Nos_ré HENprIxX is District Engineer, Department of
Highways of Virginia. He has been with this department
since graduation. He is located at Bristol, Virginia.

Joun BELL is a member of the law firm of Knight and
Thompson, Tampa, Florida.

Jorg SILVERSTEIN is President of the Smoky Mountain
Railroad, Sevierville, ‘Tennessee. He lives in Charleston,
West Virginia.

W.E

PAUL ta
Thornburg Hardware Company of Huntington,
Virginia.

. NEBLE?T is practicing law in Lunenburg, Va

THORNBURG is connected with the Foster-

West

RAYMOND SmiruH is still with Biggs, Mohrman and
Company, 61 Broadway, New York.

JAmMEs MapIson is practicing law in Bastrop, Louis-
with offices also in Monroe. His firm is Madison,
He has been married for thirteen

lana,
Madison and Files.
years and has two sons, James Pierce Madison, aged seven
vears, and John Yerger Madison, aged four years. Asso-
ciated with him in his firm are George T., H. F., Jr.,-and

[23]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

F,. F. Madison, all of whom graduated from Washington
and Lee.

JAMES A. CrRANForD is President of the Atlantic Na-
tional Bank, Jacksonville, Florida. He was married on
October 1, 1925, to Mary Pickett of Wilmington, North
Carolina, who mhe met at Washington and Lee Finals in
1922. They now have two children, a boy 11, and a girl
eight. The boy is already planning to enter Washington
and Lee.

1923
RaAymMonpD WICKERSHAM is Minister of the Presby-
—terian Church, Waterboro, South Carolina. He is married
and has three children.

GERALD Epwarp Corry lives at 59 North Monterey
Street, Mobile, Alabama.

CuarLEs H. Rose is practicing law at 608 ‘Tampa
Street, Tampa, Florida.

Bop Carr is the father of three children, a boy thir-
teen, a girl ten, and another boy seven. He is the Presi-
dent of the R. H. Carr Lumber Company, of Jasper, Ala-
bama. They are making a good comeback after having
been completely burned out some eighteen months ago.

RocER JONES is with the Legal Department of the
Sinclair Refining Company in Kansas City. He is the
proud father of a boy and a girl.

1924

WALTER Scot’ says, “I have not made any progress
since I wrote you a year ago. There has been no increase
in my family, and I can’t see any increase in my law prac-
tice. [ don’t think my mind has improved any, for I am
still fooling with politics occasionally, and I am thinking
seriously of running for the House of Delegates again.”
He is practicing law at 100 wneDeey Avenue, N.. W.,
Roanoke, Virginia.

W. CLiypE DENNIs is practicing law in Grundy, Vir-
ginia. He has been Trial Justice for Buchanan County,
Virginia, since 1926, the first year the system was estab-
lished. He is married and has two sons aged 12 and six
years.

Francis W. PLowMAN has been with the Scott Pa-
per Company since graduation and was made an officer
of the company about a year ago. His address is 106 Pop-
lar Walk, Ridley Park, Pennsylvania.

1925

LuTHER Copieéy is an attorney and counsellor at law,
1217 Security Building, Miami, Florida.

M. F. BaucGueEr is a member of the law firm of Wil-

liaamson, Cain and Baugher, with offices in the Harvey
Building, West Palm Beach, Florida.

I*tLLMorE Noretest lives at 511 North prerd Street,
Richmond, Virginia.

Kenetu A. Goope is with the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad Company, 3116 ‘Terminal ‘Tower, Cleveland,
Ohio. He has a daughter, Geraldine Lee, born December
29, 1938. “We selected the Lee part of her name from the
Lee of Washington and Lee University, and call her Ger-
rie Lee,” he writes.

R. F. Goopricu is with the Franklin Limestone Com-
pany, Nashville, Tennessee.

1926

KKay ‘THoMAs writes from West Virginia that “Quite
a few of the old Washington and Lee boys have been do-
ing pretty well in this state, and at the last session of the
Legislature we had the unique distinction of having
Washington and Lee men as Governor, President of the
Senate, and Speaker of the House. I doubt if any other
university in the country could have that same record in
any other state.’’ Rocky Holt is Governor, Bill LaF on is
President of the Senate, and Kay is Speaker of the House.

James M. Wiviiams is Director of the Bureau of
Mental Hygiene, Department of Public Welfare, Rich-
mond, Virginia. Last year he was made a Fellow of the
American College of Physicians and was recently elected
a member of the American Psychiatric Association. He is
associate in neuro-psychiatry of the Medical College of
Virginia.

MarsuHatt Morr is General Manager of Hartford
Better Business Bureau, Inc., 190 Trumbull Street, Hart-
ford, Connecticut. He is building a new cottage on Long
Island Sound on the site of the old one which disappeared
in the September hurricane.

RatpuH DAvVEs is manager of the State Theatre, Lex-
ington, Virginia, for Warner Brothers. He has two hand-
some children, a boy and a girl.

Henry Lex is engaged in the practice of surgery, 806
Medical Arts Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1927

GEORGE CoNRAD is a member of the law firm of Con-
rad and Conrad, First National Bank Building, Harrison-
burg, Virginia.

Max ‘Terry is a member of the law firm of Hughes
and Terry, 225 South State Street, Dover, Delaware.

[24]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Most of his practice is in corporation work, and he spends
considerable time in New York.

Manninc A. Stmns’ address is 307 McCauley Street,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He is writing a novel and
has bought a farm in Cabarrus County, North Carolina.

Haroip R. Sutiivan has been practicing law in De-
troit for the past nine years. His address is 628 I*ord
Building, Detroit.

1928

Cuarces H. Linprors is practicing Accountancy, with ~

offices in the Sweet Building, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
He is also president of the First Federal
Savings and Loan Association of Brow-
ard County and has been its executive
officer for about six years.

Irvin CuBINE is Governor of Dis-
trict No. 186, Rotary International. His _\)-
office is in the Shackelford Building, .
Martinsville, Virginia.

GEORGE S. ARNOLD is serving as Re-
ceiver of the First National Bank, Key- «
ser, West Virginia.

GEORGE DEPass is a member of the
firm of DePass and DePass, Attorneys
and Counselors at Law, Cleveland Law Building, Spart-
anburg, South Carolina.

Lester Brown is practicing medicine, Suite 815,
Doctors’ Building, 478 Peachtree Street, N. E.., Atlanta,
Georgia.

1929

James W. Baiey, JR., is Secretary and Treasurer of

West Virginia Armature Company, Bluefield, W. Va.

IRWIN SANDERS is teaching in the Alabama State Col-
lege for Women.

Bren Eastwoop is at 1926 Milan Street, New Or-
leans, Louisiana.

LANDON RULE is with the Farmers and Merchants
National Bank, Hobart, Oklahoma. He says he has two
daughters who keep him guessing.

Jack KENNEpy is with Montgomery Ward and Com-
pany, Chicago, Illinois. }

W. A. MacDonoucH is with Burr, Patterson and
Auld Company, Fraternity Jewelers, Detroit, Michigan.

1930

Ep Bostwick is working for the Travelers Insurance
Company, as he has been since graduation. His residence

 
   
  
  
 
 
 

address is 111 North Harvie Street, Richmond, Virginia.

Bos Crapp is practicing law in Frederick, Maryland.
He was elected a member of the Maryland Legislature for
the term beginning January 1, 1939, and ending January

1, 1943.

DupLEY DENTON is located in St. Louis, Missouri,
employed by Anheuser-Busch, Inc., as an accountant in
the cost department, and his job has been the institution
and continuation of a maintenance cost record. Incident-
ally, the company’s maintenance budget for this year is
slightly over a million dollars. He was married in May,

ath 1938, to Miss Frances Burns of St.
ier > . ‘ .
WAS: Louis, Missouri.
de eat ° ° oe °
“fos a Bos Davis is still living in Houston
pet Ud Se > q
4 fie. Texas, and is engaged in the oil busi-
ows . . .
#b~~ ~\_ ness. He is still single and has “no pros-
PAS "
Vi ae pects for a change for the better or
— LSS
eS worse.”
ei 2
IX i Leon Ropinson is the minister of
MA WN i the First Baptist Church of Woodstown,
Wl

Ub New Jersey.

1931

=> Met Cox says his status is the same
as last year except that he wants his address changed to
1850 Monroe Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Bitt BALLARD is associated with the Ballard Fish and
Oyster Company, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia

Duncan McCOoNNELL is in the Department of Geol-
ogy, University of Texas, Austin, Texas. He says: “The
problem I selected for my Ph.D. thesis turned out to be
one of great interest, particularly on account of the very
unexpected results, and it has been discussed in British,
German and Russian scientific journals Having about
three years’ start on the problem, I am now having fun
writing answers to these discussions—several of which
are not in agreement with my conclusions. However, other
discussions confirm portions of the work, particularly the
more radical portions. Regardless of Hitler and various
similar gangsters, the scientific fraternity is international.
A German has given me some of the best support, offer-
ing great praise. The problem involves the application
of mineralogy to the biochemistry of teeth and bones. The
argument concerns a most unique crystal structure which
has been postulated on the basis of X-ray and chemical
determinations, together with the manner in which these
measurements have been interpreted.”

Harris Cox is still with the Geophysical Service in
the East Indies. His forwarding address is care of Geo-

[25]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

physical Service, Inc., 1311 Republic Bank Building,
Dallas, Texas.

Joun Hawnsrorp ‘THomAs is practicing medicine in
Greenville, Virginia.

Dick Fosvsr has “An Attractive Shop on the Atlantic
Seaboard,” called the Billboard Barn, at Southampton,
long Island, New York.

1932

JAmEs D. Sparks is practicing law in the home town,
Monroe, Louisiana. Things are going well with him.

H. BRECKENRIDGE Heaps is married and has two girls,
one five and one two. He is practicing law in Bel Air,
Maryland.

C. P. Lee still teaches at Southwestern in Memphis,
Tennessee. He is going to Europe this summer, and await-
ing the publication of his first novel soon.

Bitt ADELSON is a lawyer in Baltimore with the firm
of Moylan, McKeldin and Smith in the Baltimore Trust
Building. He is married, is president of the Young Demo-
cratic Club, and is getting to be quite a politician.

GrorckE Lupton still controls the Coca-Cola business
in Lynchburg, Virginia, at 723-7 Jefferson Street.

CHARLIE DaAvipson, practicing law in Lexington, Vir-
ginia, reports that Carlyle Lynch teaches at Lexington
High School, has two children, that Mac Campbell is
with Investors’ Syndicate in Roanoke, and that Massey
Printz is with the government in the General Accounting

Office.
1933

Birt Wer‘z is a member of the law firm of Edwin §.
and William H...H.,,Wertz, 127 East, Liberty Street,
Wooster, Ohio. He is married and has a baby girl born
last February.

Joun W. JongEs is representing The Fidelity Invest-
ment Association in Gordonsville, Virginia, and vicinity.
He is married and has a small son.

Joun Wome vporrF is Pastor of the First Presbyter-
ian Church, Appalachia, Virginia. He is working on his
Master’s Degree in Union Theological Seminary. He at-
tended a meeting of Presbytery in April and roomed with
a Washington and Lee alumnus, the Reverend Henry
Richard Mehler (Red) of the class of 1931.

Britt Brooks, Jr., has been living in Memphis ‘Ten-
nessee, for the past several years and is employed by the
Chevrolet Dealers of the Memphis Zone in the Sales Pro-

motion and Advertising Department. His address is 479
North McNeil, Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

1934

Norwoop E;. BAND is associate minister of the West-
side Presbyterian Church, Germantown, Pennsylvania.
This is one of the largest churches in the city. He says
that many of the younger alumni are located in German-
town.

JOEL SNYDER is with the Fidelity & Deposit Company,
of Maryland, in Atlanta, Georgia, where he has been for
the past year. His territory is Kast ‘Tennessee, Northeast
Georgia, and South Carolina, so he has to keep moving.

CaRLTON WARE graduated from the University of Ar-
kansas Law School at Fayetteville, Arkansas, in June,
1935, and has his licence to practice However, he has been
working in his father’s firm, C. V. Ware & Company,
grain, seed, fertilizer brokers in, Pine Bluff. He will prob-
ably open that law office this fall. He is still single.

A. M. Fowler manages The Hotel Belleville, Belle-
ville, Illinois.

Rop Massey is in the closed mine district; P.O, Box
850, Beckley, West Virginia.

1935

Britt Fow xs is associated with Park Street in the
practice of law in San Antonio, ‘Texas.

GRIER WALLACE is with the Engineering Department
of the Duke Power Company. He is working particularly
with the design of switching stations and transmission
lines. He has just built a house.

Jim FRANKLIN is selling life insurance for the Provi-
dent Mutual Life Insurance Company, and is tremend-
ously enthusiastic about it. He is still single and lives at
home, 63 Elmwood Road, Verona, New Jersey.

Ep CHAPPELL, JR., has been with the Technical Di-
vision of the Rayon Department of FE. I. DuPont de Ne-
mours, Inc., since leaving school. He is now Supervisor
of Spinning and Textile Service Works. His job is to
see that the tests planned by the research chemists are
run.

1936

JoHN S. BEAGLE is an assistant in the office of the
Prosecuting Attorney of Genesee County, Flint, Michi-
gan. He was married in May, 1939.

Av Kann, Jr., is a student in the Harvard Medical
School. During the past two summers he has had trips to
Scandanavia and Honolulu.

[26]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

Harris ANDERSON is a partner in Bayard’s, Inc., Fu-
neral Directors, 770 Fourth Avenue, North Street, Peters-
burg, Florida. He was married to Nedra J. Bushong of
Youngstown, Ohio, in the summer of 1934.

MaAcRUDER DRAKE has been with the Fidelity and De-
posit Company since graduation, first in Baltimore, in a
training school, then a year in Atlanta, and now in Louis-
ville, Kentucky. His address is 1453 Saint James Court,
Louisville, Kentucky.

Sam Hattey, Jr., was married to Mary Ford Offutt
last April. He is teh sole owner of the Halley Tobacco
Seed Company, producers of Halley Special ‘Tobacco
Seed, the second seed ever put on the market. His ad-
dress is Elmwood Farm, Georgetown, Kentucky.

GRAHAM SALE, JR., graduated from West Virginia
University Law School, and has become associated with
the law firm of Sale, St. Clair and Sale, Welch, West Vir-
ginia. He acted as legal attaché to the Senate of West
Virginia during its 1939 session. He is Treasurer of the
McDowell County Bar Association and is Commissioner
of Accounts for McDowell County.

Kennetuo MacDonatp, who will graduate from the
medical school of Cornell University next June, has been
honored by election to AOA, the medical honor society.
At the same time, he was accepted by Lenox Hill Hos-
pital in New York City for internship in surgery.

1937

Wa.ty BERNARD is: Vice-President of Hudson Dye-
stuffs Corporation and president of Bernard Color and
Chemical Corporation, 333 Hudson Street, New York.

ArtHur McGInnes, Jr., is employed by the Non-
Gran Bronze Company, in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. His
home is in Wayne, Pennsylvania.

Bitty ALLEN has been admitted to the Georgia Bar.
He has been employed in the general office of the Ameri-
can Bakeries Company for the past three years. His ad-
dress is Box 2180, Atlanta, Georgia.

Jack BrapLey (CuHick) Prerce is in the research
engineering department of the Talon Fastener Corpora-
tion in Meadville, Pennsylvania.

G. P. CrowE t is the pastor of Calvary Presbyterian
Church, Jackson Boulevard, at Keeler Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois, a city church of seven hundred members, within
fifteen minutes of the Loop. He has recently moved to
Chicago from Hugo, Oklahoma.

1938

A. J. Rrrrenmouss is associated in the practice of law
with the firm of Rittenhouse, Webster and Rittenhouse,
First National Bank Building, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Frank Comer is Personnel Director for the Bibb
Manufacturing Company, in Porterdale, Georgia. He em-
ploys workers, looks after their health and houses, and
also is in charge of a hotel there. There are about 5,000
people living in that industrial village, about thirty-five
miles from Atlanta.

Tuomas C. NuGEN’ is in business with his father in
the Nugent Sand Company, Clay and River Road, Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

Joun L. Macey has hung out his shingle as an At-
torney-at-Law, 400 Security Trust Company Building,
Lexington, Kentucky. He was married last December.

GILBERT Mg&Em is working at two jobs in Bluefield,
West Virginia. (1) Assistant to his father in the Meems-
Haskins Coal Corporation; (2) As a representative to
The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.

FE. A. Sarror, Jr., is at 621 Giddens-Lane Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana.

 

 

McCRUM'S

Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY

In Lexington and Vicinity

w
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES

v
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
v
Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

[27]

 

 

ee vr =
NNN a agg gee oe

 

NN NS SR I SR AL A RE RS OO OR OR EE EEE ECO CC COCO

Who Owns Washington and Lee?

Some of you who are receiving this issue of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Magazine have had it thrust upon you. You didn’t ask for it—but you
got it anyway. Maybe you never heard of it before. If so, you’re exactly the
people we’ve been looking for. We want you to know about the Alumni
Magazine.

Probably there are alumni who feel that their relationship with Washing-
ton and Lee ended at the moment when they left the University. It was like
stopping along the road on a motor trip where you bought a dollar’s worth of
food, departed, and never thought of the place again. At the college you
bought four thousand dollars’ worth of education—just a stone along the
road of the good old days.

But is it that simple? Dr. Gaines was once floored by the question, ‘“Who
owns Washington and Lee?” There is no answer to a question like that—it’s
too complicated—but certainly no group has a stronger claim than the alumni.
The ownership is not commercial, but it is real.

The Alumni Magazine will keep you in touch with this intangible posses-
sion of yours; it will inform you about the friends you made in college—peo-
ple you know so well who now seem to be lost forever. It will tell you what is
going on among the undergraduates who are now in your abandoned shoes,
and even about the old faculty who are still fumbling about in their harmless
pursuits!

For many who will receive it, this copy is a sample. If so, we hope you will
want to see some more. There’s a subscription blank below. Five dollars to
the class fund brings the magazine for a year. The regular subscription price

is two-fifty.

 

Subscription Blank

Please enter my subscription to THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 1 year, $2.50; 2 years, $4.00

My name does (does not) appear correctly on the communication just received.

My Geeck Tor’S.:.. cielo is enclosed. oi ui hisses SU a ia
Mail to 2g i. (Cy) Young Street Pi aig A bsink G6. g400eGOh U1 Ub OR EVEN AEN SE Ee Oe aya des bo Bisse cos Cond bbs Weus bowen ae
Box 897, Lexington, Virginia Boiss sti snk vainrudhicsodcesbaccd mv cawhuodniciscmcuus otis ee

ancllmnc incall nll alll ltl alll nl ell lll ll lll en cll ll Al cl ln Alte, ln, cl ln, lll ellen adn lll, dl lta, dn dl le tl dl dl di di di de dep dp dt» ds & & &# & A £4 £4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 gw yw yw yw wy yw

cnn nLite hn hh hh hl lh hhh hh rhe hh hr hr hr reenter wp

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Contributors to Alumni Fund in 1939

The Washington College—Washington and Lee University—Alummni Association was formed June 25, 1840—
hence this is our centennial year and we are anxious to make it the best in our history.

In a recent check we have found that 2,170 men have contributed to the Alumni I*und in the seven years since
its inception, some of them continuously, and the others more or less regularly. In this centennial year we would like
to hear from all of these men again, but more especially from the large number who have not responded in the past.
Even a nominal contribution from each of these men will assure us of a centennial year worthy of the great tradi-
tions of Washington and Lee.

The following men contributed to the fund through their Class Agents last year:

1869-1891

W. M. F. Alexander
J. M. Blanding

A. K. Bowles

J. H. Dillard

Dr. Wm. E. Dold

7. Tt. Drake

A. G. Ewing

Dr. S. S. Guerrant
Judge Henry W. Holt
F. M. Hudson

W. J. Humphreys
John T. Ireland

G. D. Letcher

Geo. K. McLendon
Harrison B. Smith
*George W. St. Clair
Judge Wm. H. Tayloe
Bishop James R. Winchester

1892
John J. Davis
John W. Davis
Herbert Fitzpatrick
FE. L. Green
Hale Houston
Wm. C. Moreton
FE. G. Smith
W. E. Turnbull
Rees Turpin
W. R. Vance
W. G. Wiglesworth

1893

H. A. Albright
James B. Bullitt

E. Funkhouser
*Walter E. Harris
B. A. Judd

P. M. Kistler

Dr. Geo. Bolling Lee
Russell A. McCoy
Guy FE. Manning

J. T. Morgan

D. D. Pendleton
Benton S. Rude
Harrington Waddell

1894

Preston J. Beale
John M. Graham

1896

Franklin Brockson
F. Fallon

Judge R. H. Gillett
Wells Goodykoontz
H. H. Larimore

J. W. Lattomus
Paul M. Penick
LA. . Utler

S. Heth Tyler

1897
LeRoy C. Barrett
F. P. Hamilton
Mosby Perrow

1898

Wm. A. Adair
Henry W. Anderson
David M. Barclay
Chas. J. Faulkner
Norman Fitzhugh
KR, .W. tot

Oscar C. Huffman
Ross McCain

W. H. Mason

Edw. A. O’Neal

Dr. R. T. Shields
Col. W. W. Whitside

1899

Dr. G. B. Capito

Harry St. G. T. Carmichael
J. W. Garrow

A. Stuart Gibson

A. Seddon Jones

5 Co Line

Jas. A. McClure

Col. Arthur M. Shipp
Admiral C. P. Snyder
Braden Vandeventer

W. C. Watson

1900
Hilton S. Hampton
L. R. Holmes
J. Lace
Rk. A. Watson

1901
W.R. Allen
M. P. Andrews

Clarence Burns
Tl. H. Flarnan
H. M. Houston
A. F. White

1902

Dr. William Allan

EK. W. G. Boogher

Dewey Cooke

Dr. W. T. Bilis

J. Wood Glass

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson
Samuel Price

Osman E. Swartz

7. PF. Wall
DB Wit
1903

Col. James Warren Bagley
‘Thomas Ball

C. Ai Boaz

B. F. Combs

John M. Corbett

F. W. Cramer

A. G. Davis

R. T.. Flnhary
Sam McP. Glasgow
W.-P; Lamar
George H. Lee

J. C. McPheeters
R. A. Ruff

F. A. Sampson

W. J. Turner

R. T. Wallace

John W. Warner

J. F. Wysor

1904
J. B. Akers
William W. Bays
George Haw
W. .T. McClure
K. I. McKay
Lyle M. Moffett
H. S$. Osburn
EK. W. Poindexter

1905
D. A. Bradham
LeWright Browning

Malcolm Campbell
J. L. Daniel

S. C. Harrison

R. A. Lapsley, Jr.
W. E. McClenny

D. T. Moore

Walter Riddick

Dr. T. Dwight Sloan
J. L. Wysor

1906

H. M. Bandy
James R. Caskie
B..&,.. Clark

Dr. F. R. Crawford
C. A. Dunlap
Milton Herman
Wm. L. Hoge
Claude Light

B. J. Mayer

Basil Manly
W.H. Moreland
Si Peery

H. Claude Pobst
A. W. Rutan

R. B. Spindle
Albert Steves, Jr.
J. Robert Switzer
K. W. Trimble

1907

Harry R. Axelroth
C. F. Bagley

T. O. Bagley
Martin Caraballo
W. RT Pen

C. A. Engle

John W. Flannagan, Jr.
Powell Glass

David H. Hill.

EK. Clyde Hoge

A. Ro LPrick

W, 1. Lord

D. W. M. MacCluer
Vincent M. Miles
W. F. Semple

1908-A

G. A. Batten
John M. Bierer
Donald P. Boyer
G. C. Gabriel
Julian S. Gravely

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Peyton Hobson
W. P. Hooper
A. N. Lybrand
H. R. Mahler
Joe Moore
Phillip P. Page
Richard L. Page
i. KR. Paxton

H. W. Phillips
Henry M. White

1908-L
Robert W. Arnold
Iirnest J. Beale
Dozier DeVane
Hiram Dow
W. H. Jackson
John W. Newman
Geo. F,. Penn
Ray Robinson
A. P. Staples

1909-A
H. Chandler
T. Chenery
J, W. Claudy
S. G. Coe
W. T. Delaplaine
K. W. Denman
C. S. Glasgow
Devall Gwathmey
Fred N. Harrison
Ss. N. Hoshour
1. Fo iWin
Sorsby Jemison
J. T. Lykes
O. KR, Price
Elliott Vawter

1909-L

L. J. Boxley
Judge E. C. Caffrey
Gov. James H. Price
Reuben Ragland
Bernie Stedman

1910-A
Rayford W. Alley
*George W. Allison
J. R. Blackburn
E. tT. Sare
W. G. Caperton
J. R. Chariton
Beach M. Chenoweth
H. A. Derr
Dr. G. R. Fortson
W. W. Gwathmey
Wyatt C. Hedrick
Phil Hercher
Robert S. Hutcheson
Cary Johnston
Raymond Kenny
Dr. William R. Laird
Dr. Albert McCown
Philip W. Murray
J. W. Rader
Chas. P. Robinson
C. W. Streit
Bob Thach
John H. Tucker, Jr.
Hugh M. Witt

A f
.

1910-L

Hugh Hawthorne
Judge Harry J. Lemley
Walter McDonald
O. W. Richardson

1911-A
J.-P. Barclay
J]. M.. Barker, Jf,
Brian Bell
Lewis G. Cooper
Henry W. Dew
F. P. Guthrie
John G. Herndon
A. Dana Hodgdon
L, L. Humphreys
Fred S. Johnson
J. G. Johnston
M. FE. Kurth
Major Clements McMullen
W. oR. Price
W. A. Reid
C.-W. Tharpe

Brown Truslow

1911-L

Ben P. Ainsworth
George Chaney
Omer T. Kaylor
J. Nevin Kilmer
Robert A. Russell
Luther G. Scott
J. Tom Watson

1912-A
Lloyd R. Craighill
H. A. tose
Tommy Glasgow
Cecil Gray
A. J. Harbert
A. Mason Harris
Tucker Harrison
Fo: iar
Dr. J. O. Hodgkin
Dr. W. N. Hodgkin
S. A. Honaker
A. H. Hopkins
J. Frank Key
Brown Lewis
Edw. W. Lyons
Allan McDowell
Lee Ordeman
Dan Owen
J. C. Pickens
H. E. Potter
Frank R. Ruff
James Somerville
W. L. Webster

1912-L

Byron L. Ballard

W. G. Dunn
Laurence E. Goldman
Francis J. Heazel
Judge A. G. Lively
O. L. McDonald

D. W. McNeil

“5. B. Watts

William J. Wilcox
Clayton Williams

1913-A

Harvey Apperson
Dr. James W. Bruce
Paul C. Buford
John L. Crist

G. Doak Davidson
Herman Davidson
Ed. S. Delaplaine
Ben F. Fiery

P. P. Gibson
Carter Glass, Jr.
Judge Ben Haden
Dr. Wm. T. Hanzsche
Ki. C. Jalonick

Tom Kirkpatrick
Edward W. Lee
Fred McWane

C. C. Moore

John D. Preston

J. P. Richardson

S. C. Rose

I.dward Sheffey

R. Av Smith
Gaylord Stone
Lewis Twyman
Adrian Williamson
Re. Avie

Wim. H. Womeldorf
H. W. Wyant

]. B. Yonge

1913-L

1: R. Bandy

k. C. Dickerson
Howard P. MacFarlane
S. W. Maytubby
Howard L. Robinson

1914-A

C. R. Avery
Houston Barclay
Henry N. Barker
Roger J. Bear

D. C. Buchanan
Berkeley Cox
Ed. M. Craig
Wayne Ely

Lee R. Grabill, Jr.
R. P. Hobson

S. O. Laughlin
A. W. McCain
R. S. McClintock
Stuart Moore
Leon O’Quinn
Clarence Sager
W. B. Snyder

J. D. Thornton
W. J. Wilkins

1914-L

Judge A. C. Buchanan
Stephen F. Chadwick
i. K. Hatha

J. Carlton Hudson
Harry Miller

C. H. Morrissett

W. H. Neblett

Junius L. Powell

Ben D. Smith

Merriman S. Smith
S. H. Williams

1015-A

Robert P. Adams
J. M. Adair

O. B. Barker
James E,.. Bear

J. A. Burke
Madison P. Coe
J. Carl Fisher

- Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes

Frank B. Hayne
Rich, Datture
George S$. Morrison
1. KR: Neal

Bob Shaw

Will H. Smith
William S. Snow
Howard Stuck
Taylor Stukes

Paut C: Thomas
Ki Williams

John D. Worthington

1915-L
Arthur Birdsall
Leon Harris

Joe Milner
K. L. Gaaek

1916-A

3attle Bagley

A. L. Bennett

Lynch Christian
Reuben A. Lewis
Harrison P. Magruder
I. S. Marshall
Robert G. Nelson
Russell S. Rhodes

lk. B. Shultz

Frank O. Steele

D. Easley Waggoner
B. F. Woodruff

1916-L

Robert M. Curtis
Grady H. Forgy
Chas. T. Herndon
Sam Kohen

S. S. McNeer
Iidmund Magers
Clyde H. Miller

1917-A
H. J. Blackford
W. O. Burtner

Jackson R. Collins
William J. Cox
Dr. Glenn Craig
R. H. Gardner
Frank Gilliam

ce ee

Homer A. Jones
James A. Lee

R. B. McDougle
Dr. Chas. W. McNitt
A. G. Paxton
Milton Rogers
Marion Sanders

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chas. R. Stribling
Dr. Preston White
J. L. Williams

M. D. Williamson
Harry K. Young

1917-L

John R. Brand
Harry Campbell
Lafe B. Chafin
Geo. N. Danielson
Gabriel de la Haba
C. RA

Robert R. Kane
Gus Ottenheimer
Charles G. Peters
Herbert G. Peters

1918-A

James C. Ambler
E. V. Bowyer
Horace Hearne
Fulton Hoge
Homer A. Holt

J. 44. Howe; dr:
James J. Izard
Paul D. Jones
John L. McChord
A. 5. Marx

S. E. Moreton, Jr.
M. W. Paxton
Francis Styles

1919-A

Dr. Sam Anderson
Sam H. Baker

W. F. Barron
Leonard T. Brown
Sim B. Christy
Dr. T. Dewey Davis
S. M. Evans

H. P. Forker

Gus A. Fritchie
Tom Gilliam

Dr. Giles S. Terry
Dr. Reid White
John H. Young

1920-A

J. B. Adkins
Henry S. Baker
EK. G. Bailey
Harry 7: Burns
Ran Cabell

J. Walter Callison
J. S. Edmondson
Glen Evans
Willis M. Everett
James P. Hill
William E. Johnstone
John W. Kern

J. E. Kievlan

C. H. Megam
Sidney McKinney
J. V. Mersh
Harry L. Moore
George S. Mueller
Levin W. Nock
Russell Nesbitt
W. F. Parker

H. S. Powell
Tom M. Stubbs
H. F. Trotter
A. M. Walker

1920-L

Berkeley Cox
John Drye

J. T. Engleby
Pinkney Grissom
Eldon P. King
Walter E. Smith

1921-A

G. G. Armstrong
Dr. John T. Bate

A. Milling Bernstein
S. A. Briscoe
George D. Felix
Homer E.. Henderson
N. B. Hendrix

R. M. Hutcheson
David Johnson
Robert G. Kelley
W. R. Knebelkamp
John L. Patterson
Frank M. Pollock
Sam Raines

William J. Rushton

1921-L

John Bell

D. Boone Dawson
J. W. Dupree
Carl B ).Gill
Roy J. Grimley
T.°%.. Parsons
Wm. M. Tuck

R. C. Wood

1922-A
Dr. Andrew A. Amick
R. M. Bear
Guy Campbell
James Cranford
Or fared 1. Garard
R. D. Howerton
Verbon E. Kemp
William F. McCann
James Madison
L. W. Milbourne
Troy C. Musselwhite
We J: Le Pation
W.. Ki. pie, fr,
Huston St. Clair
W. A. Williams

1922-L

E. D. Campbell
W. E. Neblett
Joe Silverstein
G. W. Taliaferro

1923-A

Kd Aull
G.E. Corry
a, 4 wes

[31]

F. L. Sattes
D. R. Snively

1923-L

Bob Carr

F. C. Fisher

Cy Hall

A. L. McCarthy

1924-A

W. Clyde Dennis
W. 8. Gay

John G. Guerrant
J. F. Hendon
Edwin H. Howard
Otis Howe

J. Melvin Lovelace
Dr. Joe McMath
Chas. H. Phillips
Francis W. Plowman
Frank Switzer

J. N. Thomas

1924-L

Chas. A. Cohen
John W. Greene
H. L. Shuey
Louis H. Towbes
Ran Whittle
1925-A
Joseph E. Birnie
EK. W. Brown
Dr. R. L. Clatterbaugh
R. F. Goodrich
Marvin Hummer
Murrel D. Klein
. S. Mattingly
W. Carroll Mead
I.d Rietze
Roy C. Slack
Jesse Tow
Dr. Wm. L. Woolfolk
1925-L

M. F. Baugher

George T. Clark

D. Eristoff

Albert H. Griffith

Clarence Hinkle

John C. Morrison

T. R. Nelson

John S. Strahorn, . jr.

George Wilson
1926-A

E. G. Barker

A. R. Coleman
Ralph Daves

M. L. Goodman

J. R. Hendrix

C. Carter Lee
Harry Lee

Chas. W. Lowrey
Emmett MacCorkle
Burke Williamson

1926-L
J. Kay Thomas
W. E. Tilson

Earl Valentine
Basil Watkins

1927-A

Leigh D. Bullock
George E. Burke
Peter W. Coffield, Jr.
Chas. J. Crockett, ft.
Kenneth A. Durham
W. E. Gage, Jr.
Allen Harris, Jr.

H. A. ingatls, 7c:

W. H. Kidd

Luther McKinnon
W. M. Pope
Emerson T. Sanders
Manning A. Simmons
H. D. Voorhees

J. C. Wilbourn

1927-L

C. Wells Little
George Maynard
T. J. Russell

John Strickler
George D. Varney
Rhea Whitley

1928-A

Dr. L. A. Brown
H. Harris Butler
George DePass
G. Waldo Dunnington
Chas. H. Lindfors
William J. Luria
John G. McClure
id Miller
H. 8. Spotts
Chas. A. Strahorn
Tom Torrey
1928-L
George S$. Arnold
T. B.. Bryan
Oldham Clarke
R. W. Jordan
J. L. Lancaster

1929-A

Robert S. Bacon

W. J.D. Bet, Je:
Julius G. Berry

Dr. William T. Black
Peyton Bush

J. D. Connell

Earl A. Fitzpatrick
William B. Harrington
Alfred Junkin

Jack W. Kenney

A. L. McCardell

W. A. McDonough
I. F. Madison
Charles D. Mercke
Allen Morgan

EF. H. Ould

FT. Parker

Walter N. Pharr
Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
|. M. Shackelford

~

]. Miller Sherwood
O. Norris Smith
De 13 & Spano

J. W. Tankard

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

William C. Watson
P. C. Whitlock
Walter H. Wilcox
George M. Wright
Le PB, Wright

1929-L

Philip R. Becker
Sam Lancaster
Ralph McLane

1930-A

W. S. Alsop

J. C. Broadus

L. P. Brown
Robert E. Clapp, Jr.
George Craddock
R.. W. Davis, Jr:
Dudley W. Denton
Frank O. Evans
W. Van Gilbert
I}dward Graves
James N. Hess
Herbert Jahncke
Dr. John lL. Jennings
Murrel H. Kaplan
Kenneth L. Keil
Joe Lynch

W. H. Marsh

J. B. Merrick
David H. Moreton
Robert W. Mosley
S. R. Nichols

J. A. Painter
Mosby Perrow, Jr.
Leon R. Robinson
Albert Steves, III
Dr. W. E. Waddell

1930-L

Richard C. Ammerman
Robert E. Bittner
Leonard H. Davis

B. L. Rawlins

F. L. Shipman

1931-A

Ben Ayars

W. P. Ballard
Frank Bready
Lawton Calhoun
Harris B. Cox
Melville B. Cox
Graham Gillock
Frank Hanna

Paul A. Horner

W. L. Jones
Clifton H. McMillan
John O. McNeel
Joe Magee

Gilmore Nunn

Fred C. Pace
Albert Peery

Dr. Marvin Pilley
Reno Porter

Daniel Sherby
William H. Tallyn
John H. Thomas
Walter F. Williams

1931-L

Walter E. Hoffman
James B. Martin

1932-A

M. W. Adelson
Iiverett M. Cross

J. & Bares

Baylis Hightower
Robert K. Hoadley
Wm, DD. Hoyt, Jr,
Kemper Jennings
George M. Lupton
Leighton McKinney
W. C. Mulligan
James S. Pollak
David George Price
Donald C. Thompson
j. C. Varner
Sherwood Wise

1932-L

Martin P. Burks
Paul Holstein
Henry MacKenzie
Wayne H. Mathis
John Hill Morgan
D. J. Savage
James D. Sparks

1933-A

Harold Abramson
Irving Bricken

W. J. Brooks, Jr.
Edwin W. Chittum
J. Fred Cook

John Cully

B. C. de la Mater
Richard T. Edwards
Loring M. Garrison

Eben Jackson
Bob Kaplan
Claude LaVarre
EF. M. Nuckols, Jr.
Peel Rivers

J. Rucker Ryland
Wallace Sheffield
Al Symonds

3111 Symonds
Luther Violett, Jr.
Jj. .B. Wharton, Jr.

1933-L

D. K. Crawford

John L. Ericson

Jerome P. Framptom

George Joseph

W. L. Stone

1934-A

Darby Betts

Isadore Dattle

Ruge DeVan

Everett Fisher

F. O. Funkhouser

Richard W. Grafton

George McClure

Herman Robinson
(In Memoriam)

Robert Ruth

John Thomas

1934-L

Thomas D. Anderson
Robert Bailey
Thornton Berry
Layne H. Ford

A. M. Fowler
Taylor Jones’
Howard R. Kelley

1935-A

Anderson Browne
A. D. Campbell

EF. W. Chappell, Jr.
ly Pe Gasaman
William Schuhle
Winthrop C. Smith
John D. Spohr

1935-L

Winston Brown
Rudolph Bumgardner
Meredith Graham

1936-A
Harris E. Anderson
H. O. Danielson
W. Magruder Drake
George Harrison
Art Hauck
K. G. McDonald
EK. A. Powell
H. L. Robertson
Jacob S. Seligman
Chas. J. Walker
Tyree F. Wilson

1937-A
Walter G. Lehr
Harold Magoon
Cc. Arnold Matthews
W. P. Morrison
BoM. Peck, Jr.
Osgood Peckham
T. M. Plowden
Lamar Rau
M, ©, Rider, Jr.
Newton Robbins
George E.. Sillik, Jr.
Phil Weinsier
William C. Wilbur
Fielden Woodward

1937-L
J.-P. Baker
W. C. Bernard
Amos Bolen
Stanley Higgins
S. Tilford Payne
I. M. Scott

1938-A
Arthur Alexander
Frank R. Comer
James M. Davidson, Jr.
Sam McChesney
Tom C. Nugent, Jr.
Harry Philpott
Jay Reid
John Shoaf
Chas. R. Skinner, Jr.
A. Murat Willis
Non-grads
John P. Darnall, III
Andrew M. Eastwick, Jr.
Geo. H. Turrell .
(In memory of his son)

* Deceased

 

 

- y
ONE I EE PRL ES Ee A ee a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Le ee ee ee ee ee ee ee we OU Le UUme Lh hUeDhUhmLehUL eh Ue Uhh hl

 

 

Washington and Lee Wedgwood Plates

ORDER FORM

PeCVCHME Bro. for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.50 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped charges collect from
Boston, Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of Fight plates [ | (or else check desired views below)

Center Views

ae Wasbington Colleie Ld &. Gatnesie Tinary oe ae

Bie © Coie cs | 6. Deremus Gyninasiim 1 Lo

Gooey cde occcn es. Poy Ok OT PLAAE hice oa ee Po

ee OA ess be] 8. Washington College, 1857.......... Po
Check color choice: Loi. Hive PoP <areen [ ] Mulberry

Ship plates to:
Toco os ea
Address

°
ee ee | ee A OP A SS OES C0000 0 © 04.0:0:6 00.0 8.0.0 6.0 4 6 4.0 0:0 0:6 0:0 6 Ub bb 6O D4 o 6b 010 0510. 086605 6s Oe heb ce bn 4p 0 6 omits CUNG Wa be winee ee eu ned

@eeseessesees
Ce fe ELS OOS ORS OO 00 0:8'O:S 0 6.00666 6:6 6:60 600006 OS CCHS EEE HES CCC OCS EE CROC OC SECE CHS EVO CH CEOES CC OBE DEM V Ou 6 505.08 6098

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

*Owing to war conditions in England where these plates are being made, shipment
will probably be delayed and we can make no definite promise as to delivery date.

ON I eee ee ee ee ee Oe Oe eS eS ee eee eee eS eS Ue wT Ue he Um Umer UT ee Ure Ve Vee CWT VO VT VV VO OO vO OV OV OC OC Tee a ST OS OO OO OO Oa a OO a OO

ad t  e .
a5 pi eg A OI I IOI DOO FOOT OCOCOCOSOCOSOSGOOOCVCOOC COCO COCO OOOO

 

dD + + ->->>4 Aor tee Ar.r.dr. er dir. di ce. hr. chin di dir hn dle di dir di di di dhe ad diy. cl. dr. he dr. de di hi dy. dn dr. di die die dir di di die dir di hr dl dled. hin dlr. in dir. die di dle di. dln dln dn di di dn dl dh dh din dln. dl th Ml lr. n.d. din. dln otin athe. thn. thin. dln thin. dle. dln dle dl. dl. le th. hh, hte. ulhien allie albeit. hie. thn thin. he cM di dir

 

 

 

 

