  

UMNi Magazine

of Washington and Lee University
7 g FS /

Vo | UMe 6
Number |

 

 

z
a

. Vik 8 Ff £2 Sa! NG oe. ee

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards

in the directory. Rates on application.

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, '18,-’22

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE R. E. MOORE

ArTroRNEY-AT-LAW | ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank |
Building

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg., DoucLas, OBEAR & DOUGLAS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Los, N : | Southern Bldq., Washington, D.C.
Atlantic City, N. /. | Bluefield, W. Va. | y g
Walter E. McDougle, LL.B., ’91
PHILIP P. GIBSON, Lawyer R. B. McDougle, B.A., °17, LL.B., ’20
General practice in all State ee sweaighy 5 anbmames
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE RNEYS-AT-L
and Federal Courts 25-27-29 Citizens National Bank
Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Building
Bldg., Huntington, West Va. Parkersburg, W. Va.
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, °‘13
Citrus Exchange Building. On NEY -ATEae ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Tampa, Florida Peoples Bank Building 811 Bosley Building
Lynchburg, Virginia | Roanoke, Virginia

W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

 

 

 

James E. Smitherman

| ‘John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
Compliments of the President of David E. Smitherman

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE 2 Alumni ae _ SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
| Law OFFICES
E. C. CAFFREY, ‘09 Commercial National Bank Bldg.

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the | Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Suite 881 Mills Building
Departments -H. B. Moore, Principal

Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California

a P ; ‘
1100 Investment Building Telephone Sutter 3363 _ J. M. Moore, 08, Assistant Prin,
Washington, D.C.

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. & L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

oa: | UL UT hee ee me 6G ae ee eee F | 6O

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service

DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT

Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

ATTENTION ALUMNI

“MicCRUMS”
The management of the little shop which is orer- c

ated in conjunction with the Lee Museum wishes to
call your attention to the articles which it has for
sale, consisting of photographs of General Robert E.
Lee, 11 x 14, ready for framing, at 85c. each, includ-
ing postage; the following books at $1.10 per copy, in-
cluding postage: RECOLLECTIONS AND LETTERS
OF ROBERT E. LEE, by his son (a former edition of

this took sold for $5.00): LEE THE AMERICAN, by 4
Gamaliel Bradford: TWIN PATRIOTS—WASHING- ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
TON AND LEE—-AND OTHER ESSAYS, by Mrs.

Flournoy.

No Southern library is complete without some
books on General Lee. Fill out the coupon and at-
tach check and your order will be taken care of
promptly.

 

As Always the Gathering Place Of

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Lee Museum,
Lexington, Va.

Benclosed find CHECK OF G.i.....cccccaccscccccccccccsccscces , for
Unexcelled Fountain Service
which please SENd ME............cccccsecesseeeeeee photographs of
too ele ee ee |. ee copies of
ATTN... . «cc dnadiibchsesacédeueeoneoameneiinlelllnannaninntn i. oiiahiaiaiauamanaas
LEXINGTON, VA.
TRAEEEIOES, ... ...acucncccsesnsnbadesnnducesuniuiensansiesaanssendiniianaasaannnnaa

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid
General Robert EF. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid

tf;

—— —
cm cn
©

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Tee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

FE. C. Carrrey, President E. L. GrauaM, Jr., Treasurer Harry K. Younc, Editor
VoL. VI JULY, 1930 No. 1
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.
CeNITENTS

Paci Page
130 New Alumni Created.................c.eee 3 Class of -1) , Unttesice ss 2. cas... 33
Education in Dollars and Cents ...........0.... | Road Nears Completiom......:................0000000065- 33
Alumni Day Draws Maniy...............c.c0gme 20 OT: he |! Ae oe 34
Dean Addresses Scientists..:..............ccce | / Nephew Writes Rufl........:.;.4cgpee............. 34
Riditorial | j.circpcss. heen begiieneteiegs «.-0ss0-s+.-f:ten 8 Myers Climbs @1t. }uji.c:;.ccgaieee...-.:..0.0 35
Greeting from Doctor Gaines....................... lO 19350: Catyx, Temutiteg ao 5 ae a... .2hs--.<05, 36
Gaines Discusses Dream..................c.00 LI Orators> S@ocess fal 25) ae ist... e- 36
Nichiohs : Gli tee OUP aie eics sese.sce--cscneccZinc.... 12 Winchester Advises Seniors.........................5 37
Alumni Honor Dean Campbell.................. 13 Begins Twenty-First Year.......................sc000 37
Removals—Now and Then......................... 14 Hawes Writes Delightful Novel.................... 38
Prati tien SOE .............:..-c0ccuetaminaaa 16 Davis: Argues: Cibe.(... Specs. uskecs. > cance 38
While “CpGRers fee cet... :......:..ccc sack ee 16 Troubadours Plan for 1930-31......00000000000... 39
Memorial for Morrison........................:s0mmnae 16 Student Editors Gather...:..................... ee 39
Plea tor Liberty Halll.....ic......50..:5.... ge 17 Sons of Alumni Graduate ........0...00000..0cceeee. 39
Phi Beta Kappa Takes Alumni........................ 17 Meet -P¥otessor Smits. aci...:....aeariedes;.:..0s0 39
The Athletic Year........ seseceeteceeaane 1S Y. MM C.+A.. Discourtene@s......:.<..stme......... 40
Crew’ Race Continues........................0mmeE © 22 Many Alumni Registetsici3.:.::...-:...00m......... 40
New Basketball Coach.......................ee 22 Dean Honored by Tulane.................000000000000... 4]
And Now Football......................0....00e ZS Alumni Class of 1930 Formed.........0000000........ 4]
lexington Grows........... es 23 Present ot Fires, 2... .......... 4]
New Picture of Tjee..............:.......:00e 24 Gil Leaves. Facultyar as daiaciciscin.......... 41
ew Professors..28@s........cs.:0.cs00 nn 20 POTTY * EUMNET TF TOMMIEE iiis sc cctilecrrsto. 00... 42
Tucker Speaks in Georgia... ccc 26 Helps Pas Leet eels: <stecrak..ts.-n,..... 42
President's Report....... sasssiene nn 27 McElwee Memorial...............c:csccsssesesseessssesees 42
End Comes to Wm. A. Anderson............. 28 Doctor Tunstall’s Address............00.00000cc000 43
OG Deaths..)......:........ x L.ssovstssse. OO Fe a | 46
LOO. 32 PTOI a es css ce 47

 

 

 

try

AOS) 2 ae oe ee A ee re

 

 

 

THE LAST “DAF

      

Tw, wae “ex Sie SER One
—- Ps .} » % * ) i o> ae “vu
5 A fale oe Be cw
Dae Meee.
Ae ¥ ;

 

Tue ACADEMIC PROCESSION

 

 

E A &Y¥ Ut Maa

a7 31

I

MMB G AS ZZ Sere

130 New Alumni Created at Finals

Final week this year was one of the most success-
ful Washington and Lee has experienced in some time.
The dancing and merrymaking culminated in the Final
Ball on Tuesday night in the Doremus Gymnasium,
where to the strains of Jan Garber’s orchestra, and in
a fairvland of rainbow streamers and flowers, a happy
throng danced until the sun came up. A lovely figure
opened the ball. Each girl carried an old-fashioned
bouquet of flowers. The figure was led by Roby K.
Sutherland, of Pulaski, Virginia, with Miss Marie
Lanier, of West Point, Georgia. Miss Lanier led the
1929 ball with her brother, George Lanier. Mr.
Sutherland and Miss Lanier were assisted by H. G.
Morrison, of Johnson City, Tenn. with Miss Betty Mil-
ton. of New York. Favors were given to those par-
ticipating in the figure; the girls received leather trav-
eling clocks, and the men cigarette cases with lighters
attached.

Dances were everywhere this year; and banquets,
held in fraternity houses and hotels brought visiting
alumni again into the Finals Week while crew races,
late shows, luncheons, and receptions crowded the pro-
grams. Exceptionally fine weather kept the Finals
crowd invigorated.

The interfraternity dance Friday night started
things going. L. Y. Foote, of Hattizsburg, Miss., with
Miss Evelyn Sale, of Welsh, W. Va., led the dance.
The Saturday morning Pan White Friar dansant was
led by M. G. Perrow, with Miss Polly Tyree, both of
Lynchburg, Va. William W. Palmer, of Mexico, with
Miss Mildred Pierce, of Birmingham, Ala., led the
Sigma German Saturday night. Monday night, the
Senior Ball was led by W. H. Marsh, of Fayetteville,
N. C., with Miss Virginia Hall, of Roanoke, Va.

The Baccalureate Sermon was preached by an
alumnus, the Rev. Dr. M. Ashby Jones, pastor of the
Second Baptist Church, St. Louis, Mo., on Sunday
morning, June Ist, in the Lee Chapel: One hundred
and thirty Seniors were challenged by the text from
irst Chronicles, 11:19. ‘For with the jeopardy of
their lives they brought it.” With the Bible story of
the three young men, followers of David, who dashed
across the valley, surprised the Philistines, and secured
water from the well of Bethlehem for their leader,
Doctor Jones inspired the graduates with the beauty of
adventure in a noble cause. ‘Take the risk out of life,
rob life of its dare, and the race would stand still.” It
is to the dare of the unknown that the spirit of the pio-
neer and discoverer responds,” Dr. Jones said.

He made it plain, however, that he was not hymn-
ing the mere spirit of bravado, but argued that the
gambling spirit, latent in every man, is good only when

directed toward a goal worth the risk. Dr. Jones said:
‘Just here I would make the distinction between a
sport and a sportsman. Sports are born in the grand-
stand, but sportsmen are born on the athletic field. A
sportsman finds joy and enthusiasm in trying to win a
game in which he has risked himself. In some real
sense, the future of America depends upon whether we
place our emphasis upon the grandstand or upon the
athletic field, whether we produce sports or sportsmen.”

One hundred and thirty new alumni were created
when the one hundredth and eightieth commencemnt
exercises were held Tuesday morning at 11 o'clock in
Lee Chapel with Dr. Robert H. Tucker presiding
Robert B. Tunstall, distinguished Richmond lawyer,
delivered the address. Mr. Tunstall’s speech was an
unusual one. “In the pursuit of education in relation
to your business,” he said, “keep the idea of enjoyment
to the fore; you will not enjoy your business unless you
succeed in it, and you will not succeed in it unless yuu
enjoy it.”

Mr. Tunstall insisted the value of enjoyment in
work was so important that if a man did not love his
job he had better leave it. He pointed out that he was
not urging the fickle or lazy man to be forever drifting,
“but,” he said, “if, after a fair trial, you dislike your
work, change it, no matter how long you've spent in
preparation for it.”

Mr. Tunstall emphasized other facts:

The graduate has not “received his education,” he
has just begun.

College teaches, but better than that shows a man
how to get education. i

Specialized training is only half education; plug-
ging away makes the half man.

“Genius consists in knowing when to break the

rules.”
Know something besides your business.
“Leisure is a noble privilege . . . . idleness is bond-

age, leisure is freedom.”

Mr. Tunstall wittingly remarked that the big three
in American life seemed to be business, golf, and bridge.
The general trend of his remarks was that a college
trained man should be something more than a hack
worker and a drudge. The general misunderstanding
that one must live to work, not work to live, has come
about through the fact that America is so young that it
still has many of the characteristics of the pioneer
country.

Following the address by Mr. Tunstall, the gradu-
ates received their diplomas from the hand of Dr.
Tucker, Honorary degrees were then awarded. The

Lous S A: L >) tea NN

I

Mio Aatee A) Z£o: 1 : Nee

 

Arthur
Graham Glasgow, SCIENCE }
Homer lL. Ferguson, Newport News, doctor of com-
mercial science; Robert Baylor Tunstall, commence-
ment speaker, doctor of laws; and Glen Gordon Martin,
Whitfield Miles,

Lynchburg, doctors of divinity.

men received doctor's degrees:

London, Eng., doctor of

following

and Robert of Harrisonburg and
The valedictory address was given by Herbert Lee

Jahncke, of New Orleans. Mr. Jahncke gave an un-

 

Ropert B. TUNSTALL

The full text of Mr. Tunstall’s address will be found on
pages 43-46

usually spirited address, saving that because of the pre-
cious associations at Washington and Lee, even the
man who received little scientific knowledge wo:ld be
enriched by staying at so fine a school.

 

4)
Vv

EDUCATION IN DOLLARS AND CENTS

It costs somebody $10.52 a day to educate a boy
in college.

And that boy should write against himself, of-
ficials of a southern university say, $63 every week of
his school year—$1.32 every working hour of his day!

Does he use his time so as to get his money's
worth?

Does his mental capacity make the investment pay ?

Irom the treasurer's office of Washington and
lee these questions and the cost-basis figures from
which they arose came quietly out of the whirl of col-
lege life.

“We get our figures,” Paul M. Penick, treasurer,
explained, “by doing obvious arithmetic with the fol-
lowing items—our operating expense, student enroll-

CF)

ment, estimates of student expenditures for living and
entertainment, and his earning capacity, were he work-
ing instead of going to college.”

It costs Washington and Lee, a typical southern
university, $372.53 for every student in
the And
Washington and Lee students pay tuition, an average
The diff-
erence is made up from income from invested donations
by wealthy friends of education and alumni, $50,000 of
which came from George Washington in 1797.

its class

rooms, treasurer's books show. though

of $136.61 is lost on every man enrolled.

Assuming that a student should sleep eight hours
a day—monstrous but hygienic assumption—Wash-
ington and Lee figures that the young man in college
has during the school year thirty-six weeks of 112
hours each to account for as training hours for charac-
ter and mind.

“Is it worth while?’ answered Acting President
Robert H. Tucker. A careful survey by Dr. Paul Van
Dyke a few years ago proved that of all graduates of
American colleges today, one in fifteen attained the
ranks of “distinguished men’ as listed in ‘Who's
Who,” while it took 9.000 men with a common school
training to place one of their number on the same list.
And the records of nearly 10,000 graduates of five
typical American universities indicated that one-half of
all those past middle age who had won highest scho-
lastic honors attained eminence.

“A great many people fail to realize that education
is one commodity that is sold for less than it costs to
produce it.
in order to afford collegiate opportunity to a great many

This is necessary in our economic scheme

capable but unwealthy students who would otherwise
not be able to obtain it.”

“A good many college men consider their social
contacts a great deal of benefit to them and under cer-
tain conditions this is very true. But a young man
must see to it that the conditions are sufficiently prop-
er to insure his getting an adequate return for the
cost that must be written against him.”

Does the average capacity of the student make
the investment a paving one?

“Well,” says-Dr. Walter A.

chology at Washington and Lee, “in a few cases, low

iick, head of psy-

capacity does not justify the expenditure; these are
quickly discovered by psychological tests here before
their freshman year is a week old. But the intellec-
tual possibilities of large numbers are simply tremen-
The problem is to attain the possibilities. Sev-
eral of the present freshman class show “I.. Q's.
mental estimated
George Washington and Robert E. Lee.”

dous.

*?

possibilities—equal to those for

—_—— —-——_( y-- —-

Professor
tion attending

Ithaca, N. Y,

Marcellus Stowe will spend his vaca-
summer school at Cornell University,

 
    

hth we. “eer

aa

 

A he A ee N

 

 

I

en GO OAS RS

 

 

 

 

Several hundred guests consisting of alumni and

their families, members of the faculty and graduating
class of Washington and Lee, enjoyed a delight!ui

luncheon at the dining hall Monday, June 1, at 1 o’clock.

following the luncheon a brief program was presided
C. Caffrey, of Newark, president of

over Judge EK.

the

by
association.
Acting

address

in a
to the
Washing-

The most pressing problem, he said,

Tucker
and
problems confronting

Robert H.
forceful

President
which
outlined the

brief was
point,
ton and Lee.
the age

~

old problem of money, and the University must

increase its endowment, raise its tuition or reduce its
student body until there is a reasonable ratio of endow-
ment to As the toward
administration is directing its attention, Dr.

selectivity in

numbers. second problem
which the
Tucker mentioned the need for a greater
student enrollment, an aim which could not be accom-
plished until the first problem was met. The third
Tucker, related to the alum-
ni themselves and he expressed the hope that there
would be closer contact. between the graduates and the
University. is the
tact that the alumni of
widely scattered.
The class of 1930, Dr.
permanent organization and
vear.

problem, according to Dr.

One obstacle in the way, he said,

Washington and Lee are so

‘Tucker said, is now forming
this will be done every
He expressed the hope that more active local
alumni associations would be forn:ed.

 

[5]

Harry K. Young, now assuming the duties of alum-
secretary,
to be the

ul told the luncheon guests that he hoped
means of making this contact between the
graduates and the University, of which Dr. Tucker
spoke. He drew a picture of the man on the outside
looking in and the one on the inside looking out, calling
on the first to have a more loyal spirit toward the Uni-
versity, and the second to give a more hearty welcome
to those returning. the law
class of 1911 at the present commencement as an ex-

ample worthy of following.

He cited the reunion of

Of the forty-two men who
graduated in this class five are dead and 50 per cent of
those living returned for the reunion.

A pleasant feature of the program was the read-
ing by Mrs. Marvin Bauer, of Stephen V incent Benet’s
description of Lee in “John Brown's Body.’
A general meeting of the Alumni association was
held in the Alumni headquarters at 10:30 o’clock Mon-
C. Caffery, Newark,
president of the association, in the chair. ‘The attend-
ance was small, but great interest was shown in trying

a
|:
“*

day morning with Judge of

to work out a more definite program of organization
for the alumni.

It was determined at the meeting to change the
date of the annual meeting of the association from the

homecoming football day in the fall back to Finals.
For many years the meeting was held at Finals, but

several years ago it was changed to the fall because

more alumni returned at that time. It has been found,

ie 73a A OL 4a ee oN

|

M A iGsA'Z: I ea

 

however, that there are usually two games in Lexing-
ton on that day with the V. M. I. playing in the morn-
ing, and it is practically impossible to get the alumni to
come to a meeting.

In connection with the change in the date of the
meeting the president was empowered to appoint a com-
mittee of five as a program committee for alumni day
during finals to work out objectives and a definite plan
for the meeting and for the day. This committee is to
meet not later than the homecoming game next fall.

These motions were put by Lawrence Witten, of
Cincinnati, who deplored the fact that the alumni were

 

RE-ELECTED

CAFFREY

not bound together more closely and that funds were
so short for carrying on the work. He congratulated
the association on the return of Cy Young as alumni
secretary.

President Caffrey and two others to be named by
him were appointed as a permanent contact committee
to discuss problems with the board of trustees of the
University. The meeting Monday also recommended
four names to be submitted to the board of trustees of
the University for consideration as members of that
board. The names presented were Dr. Morrison
Hutcheson, of Richmond, class of 1902; Wade Ellis, of
Washington, class of 1889; Herbert Fitzpatrick, of
ktichmond, class of 1892, and Ex-Governor Harry I’.

[ 6 ]

Byrd. Governor Byrd’s name was put up by Dan
Owen, who stated that although not an alumnus he
would be a most valuable member of the board of trus-
tees.

A movement was set in motion to amend the by-
laws to enlarge the athletic council to consist of three
resident members and three non-resident members of
the association. Charles $. Glasgow and Robert F,
Hutcheson were re-elected resident members and Law-
rence Witten and Ty Rauber as non-resident members
of the council.

At a meeting of the trustees of the association,
Judge Caffery was re-elected president for another
year.

The meeting
Harry K. Young.

Monday was the first attended by

Mr. Young was welcomed with a
hearty ovation, and spoke briefly, outlining some of his
policies and stressing especially the need for more con-
tact with the alumni.
travel with the football team and arrange alumni meet-

He said that he expected to

ings before the games.

Graduate Manager Richard A. Smith was comphi-
mented on his work and congratulated on being made
director of athletics at Washington and Lee. The
athletic report submitted by Charles $. Glasgow reveal-
ed that the association was out of debt and the new
Wilson field bridge paid for, more than $20,000 of these
notes having been taken up.

A number of members of the 1911 law class at-
tended the meeting. This class is having a reunion
with a score of its members attending. A _ pleasant
feature of the commencement was a banquet by the
class at the Dutch Inn Monday night.

The committee appointed by Judge Caffrey to help
map out a program for the alumni meeting next Finals
is Lawrence Whitten, Cincinnati, chairman; Dozier De
Vane, Washington, D. C.; Robert Ramsey, of Lynch-
burg, and Frank J. Gilliam and M. W. Paxton, Jr., of
Lexington.

Following is the text of Secretary Young’s talk:

“Had Washington and l.ee built a wall ten feet
high around its‘campus and provided no entrance, | be-
lieve | would have got back and scaled that wall in same
fashion. It has been first in my heart, of all the places
upon the g:obe and I have travelled many a mile since
1917. I made two important journeys in 1918, to the
altar and to France. I can’t see how any man can
lose his college interest or feel unwelcome in this
‘Garden Spot of Creation.’ There is no power to
make me feel unwelcome, for | am too occupied with
the thought of college activities and joy at being back
to consider for one moment whether others are glad to
have me. This is my Alma Mater and I defy any man
to have a greater share in its welfare than | have.

“The last sentence is to be the key-note of my pol-
icy as long as | am vour Secretary. | hope to knit a close
corporation and sell the stock in large and small shares,

 

mt} o£ Aviom N
the small shareholders will gradually become large
ones and we shall then have the | erfect Spirit.

“Taking the Alumni Question from two view points
I shall briefly discuss phases that I wish to bring be-
fore you gentlemen today. Let's take the man who ts
standing on the outside looking in and the man who 1s
on the inside looking out. First, the May 14th issue
of The Ring-tum Phi had an editorial on ‘Welcoming
Alumni,’ and the statement was made that Washington
and Lee Alumni are not bound as closely to the Uni-
versity as they should be, and there are many who have
intimated that they feel negle: cted when they return. If
such a condition does exist this can easily be remedied
and thought being given to particular
Homecoming seasons. First we can plant the seed of
hearty cordiality by individual This may
seem too small even to consider, but mighty oceans are
formed by tiny drops of water and if each man within
hearing of my voice goes out of the meeting with a firm
resolve to take the time to stop to greet his fellow Alum-
ni with a smile and a firm handclasp we will start a
movement which will lead to warmer relations. In
quite often the

by more time

actions.

France when a tourist asks the way,
polite Frenchman will go with the inquirer to insure
no misunderstanding. We need not go to this ex-
treme. I,et us make Washington and Lee noted for its
cordiality. The doors of the Alumni building will al-
ways be opened wide as long as the Youngs are domi-
ciled within its four walls. Of course | can’t guaran-
tee intimate conversation if approached during the pro-
gress of a football game for I have been known to say
and do some pretty rash things that I didn’t mean, and
was afterwards sorry for, while watching a football
game. I shall expect assistance from my wife at such
times as this for she is noted for her conversational
Alumni, there will always
be a cordial welcome awaiting you from Cy Young, In-
corporated.

tendencies. So, come along

“When men are sensitive and severely hurt and
feel that their college does not care for them because
their star has not rapidly risen I feel that quite a bit is

he said relative to the improper attitude they are
assuming. Make your Alma Mater proud of you by
your undying loyalty, a quality that costs no money and
an amount Surely no wealth or
Phi Beta Kappa mentality is neded for staunch loyalty.
And so there may be defects from the man looking in
from the outside. Now
the inside looking out.
much energy,
cordiality.

average of brains.

for the slant of the man on
We are all capable of only so
so much ability, and so much effusive
The the professor, the athletic
staff, and the citizens closely allied with the ufiv ersity
family have made it their life’s work to give to each and
every student of Washington and Lee the best within
their power. Is there a man who has ever left the
gates who has doubted the sincerity of our family? Of
course, if you haven't been made welcome, Alumni, it is

president,

I

(4

 

“THis Is My Atma MATER”

because the administration has been so busy making
men out of your brothers and the young boys of your
community tnat they have not taken the time to re-
assure you of their regard. ‘They did this when you
were in school by devising ways and means to get you
by. No joking, how could a man doubt a hearty wel-
come at this ‘Grand Old Place?’ ”

 

DEAN ADDRESSES SCIENTISTS

At the eighth annual meeting of the Virginia Aca-
demy of Science recently held at Randolph-Macon
Woman's College, Lynchburg, Va., Dr. H. D. Camp-
bell made an address in which he pointed out the in-
fluence of the geological formation of the Valley upon
General Jackson's valley campaign.

 

“)
Vv
,

Governor Pollard has appointed Dr. William D.
Hoyt, professor of biology at Washington and Lee, to
represent the State of Virginia at the Linville, N. C.,
meeting of the National Conference on State Parks.
Doctor Hoyt served in this capacity last year by ap-
pointment of Governor Byrd. Doctor Hoyt will also
represent the advisory council on state parks and for-
ests, of which he is the chairman.

SS ee
Professor and Mrs. William A. Coan motored to

Rockport, Mass., where they will spend their vacation
at their summer home.

 

Orne AcL Uzi. ] Mm Ai Ger A 2a. 1 ) Nee

Trustees: The Alumni Are Well Pleased

It is with a feeling of satisfaction that Alumni of Washington and Lee welcome Doctor Francis Pendleton
Gaines, new president of the institution. When President Henry Louis Smith relinquished the administrative reins
of the school and the Board of Trustees began its search for the right man to sit in the seat of Lee, Alumni of the
University awaited the outcome of this search.

Alumni of Washington and Lee—many of them graduates of a decade or more—were vitally interested in the
problem confronting the Board. The right man in the presidential chair would mean continued success of the his-
toric old school; an unfortunate choice might mean educational destruction. So it was that graduates assembled in
small groups all over the nation, discussing the presidential situation at their Alma Mater.

‘We want a man who will carry out the ideal of Robert I. Lee.” . . . . “We want a president who
will add to the facilities of the University.” . . . . “We want a man who can combine business sagacity with
educational wisdom; a man who will build the physical Washington and Lee along with the mental phase of our
Alma Mater.”

Such were Alumni comments. As months went by with no president named, confidence in and respect tor
the Board increased because Alumni realized the Trustees were determined to name a new president only when an
outstanding man had been selected.

President Smith retired; administration of the University passed temporarily into the capable hands of .Pro-
fessor Robert H. Tucker. The Board continued its search.

Then came the announcement that a new president had been elected. A young man, the Board said. A college
president already known as a man who successfully administers educational problems, the trustees added. Wide-
spread was the announcement of the selection of the new President of Washington and Lee.

Then came the reaction. North Carolina newspapers deplored the loss to that state of the man who would
move to Washington and Lee. Virginia newspapers commented on the success of the young administrator. Edu-
cators all over the United States congratulated General Lee’s University.

The new man visited the University, met the faculty, and returned to his Carolina post. A few weeks later
he came again to Lexington and spoke at a Washington and lee assembly. What he said may be forgotten, but
how he was received will live forever in the memories of those who attended that convention. Pleasant, forceful,
earnest, determined, the new president passed the examination of scrutiny summa cum laude.

On July 1 he assumed the duties of President of Washington and Lee. “I realize the tremendous responsi-
bility of the position,” he said, as he settled down to work.

Next year, the year after, and many years ‘to come will afford the University’s new administrator opportunity
to give Washington and Lee the kind of splendid service for which he is already known. His position is one of
yreat responsibility. That’s why the Board of Trustees searched so long and so diligently before they filled it. And
because Alumni of Washington and Lee believe the Board of Trustees acted wisely and well, they are delighted
with the choice and believe with the selection of Francis Pendleton Gaines Washington and Lee has opened the
door which leads to many years of progress and service in the field of education and to a continued graduate leader-
ship in affairs of the nation.

 

Well Done, Acting President

Everyone connected with the University is familiar with the great service of Dr. Henry Louis Smith as
builder and administrator ; every one associated with the school looks forward with pleasure to the administration
of Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines as President of Washington and Lee; but few not intimately familiar with the in-
ner workings of the institution know of the capable, energetic, successful administration of Washington and Lee’s
acting president of this year—Dr. Robert Henry Tucker.

Washington and Lee’s trustees—busily engaged in selecting a man to fill the shoes of Doctor Smith—were al-
so faced with the problem of choosing a man to occupy the president’s chair during the interregnum between the re-
tirement of President Smith in January and the arrival of Doctor Gaines.

[8 ]

 

’
‘
|
-
4
J
‘

a: A 2 Omen f mod. CG A 2 ba ee

y name a man whose only duty would be to passively pose as head of the school while things took the natural
course would have been an easy matter. But to find someone willing to carry on an active administration for

the short time of one semester was a serious problem to the Board. The Trustees wanted to name an acting presi-

~—ewe OF

dent who would hold things togther; who would iron out minor tifficulties and present to Doctor Gaines a Uni-
versity f unctioning as smoothly inside as on the surface; who would keep Washington and Lee moving forward in-
stead of standing still, marking time. ;

To Doctor Tucker, a man of administrative experience, a nationally: known authority in the field of economics,
a teacher a’so known outside the teaching world, the Trustees turned. Of him they asked an active administration ;
to him they trusted the destinies of General Lee’s University. j

The first. six months of 1930 vindicated this choice of the Board of ‘Trustees. Where he migut have shifted
responsibilities, Doctor Tucker attacked and cleared up si-uation after situation. In close harmony with his facu-
ity he labored on curricular problems; for the good of the University he made new and influential friends; revised
University publications, spent days on problems of attend ince for next year toward the success of Washington and
lee he paved the way for a smooth, forceful administration by the new president.

To a few hundred persons a resolution of the Truste 2s at commencement time made known their apprec.at.on
of Doctor ‘Tucker's adm-nistration; to seven thousand whose hearts are wrapped up in this historic institution the
Alumni Magazine takes great pleasure in adding its wor of thanks. |

Asa teacher Doctor Tucker has few peers, as an administrator he seized a difficult task and acquitted himself
well. Washington and Lee is most fortunate in having such a man on its faculty. Next year he returns to the
professional chair, but his word will carry weight, and the University will continue to demand much of him in the

future.

 

Your Aid a Vital Necessity

The Summer issue of the Alumni Magazine is sent by the University to every living alumns whose address
appears on our files, rebgardless of whether or not he is a subscriber to the Magazine.

In this issue we are taking advantage of the opportunity to reach all of the alumni, by inclosing a subscription
blank, for your subscription, if you are not a subscriber, and for your renewal if you are. Subscription to the
Magazine covers also alumni dues. ed

Owing to the lapse of time between the resignation of Verbon Kemp, and the installation of Cy Young, the
publication of the Magazine has been somewhat irregula~, there having been only two issued since the last st:m-
mer edition,—one in November and one in May. Subscriptions taken during that period wil be extended to cover
the full number of volumes paid for. The Magazine will in future be issued five times a year, including te sum-
mer edition.

We would urge you to send in your subscription at once if you are not already on our list. Your Alma Mater
is entering upon a new era, and your firs: duty and privilege as an alumnus is to form this point of contact with the
institution.

The Alumni Magazine is your publication and we urge you to send us any and all information which you feel
may add to its interest.

 

The Human Touch Makes a Home

In his address to visiting Alumni during Finals, the Alumni Secretary made the point that his home and the
facilities of his office are open at all times to former students of Washington and Lee. This statement is to be
taken literally. Alumni headquarters are in a separate building across Washington street from the Campus and the
Episcopal Church. In this Alumni building are located the offices of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the home
of the Alumni Secretary, a conference room, and a loung ng room.

This building was equipped as a “home” for former students who return to visit their Alma Mater. The latch-
string is always on the outside, and officials of tye Alumni Association will be disappointed if alumni do not avail
themselves of the facilities of the building. Davenports, chairs, radios, electric lights, and bookcases help equip a
building, but human association is ne: cessary before any plice can be a home.

This is an invitation and a plea, Alumni. Come hom:; live again the days of old; meet once more associates of
years gone by. The Alumni headquarters belong to you. Won't you use them?

r

tT

A - ie ee I vee ee

I

N

 

 

 

 

In this brief word of greeting, Alumni of Washington and Lee, I wish first of
all to give assurance of my joy in being now connected with the institution which
you love. I should like to add my pledge, made in deepest sincerity, that my best
energy will be devoted to an effort to maintain a University worthy of your pride
and of your affection, to protect its honored name, to preserve its purposes, to
strengthen its resources and thus expand its opportunity.

It is my hope, my most earnest hope, that I shall rapidly make the acquaint-
ance of every alumnus. Whenever you return to the campus, you will give me
the priviledge of meeting you and of chatting with you. In the meantime, you
will not hesitate to offer any suggestion that seems promising for the good of the
University. This is now our common concern, Gentlemen; and to it we shall give
our best, our concerted and cooperating best.

FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINEs.

 

 

 

——— I i * _—--— - - oe - X

| 10 |

 

 

- pH &E Aa 2 ae N

 

= on CG & 2.43

Gaines Discusses Dreams for W. and L.

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, who on July 1, at
38, began duty as the thirteenth president of Washing-
ton and Lee University, which dates from a pericd a
quarter of a century before the American Revolution,
sat iti his office and talked of his plans.

It is a plain office, almost bare, the administra-
tive room of one of the oldest colleges in America.
Along its walls tvpifying the unpretentious institution
which George Washington endowed, which General
Robert E. Lee directed as eighth president, and which
for 181 years has delivered education for scarcely half
what it costs to produce, are files which contain records
of students gone out from its doors; among them: Am-
bassadors Thomas Nelson Page and John W. Davis:
Governors Crittenden of Kentucky, McDowell, Letcher
and Kemper of Virginia; Supreme Court Justices
Trimble and Lamar, and scores of senators, congress-
men, college presidents, literary figures.

President Gaines, youthful for his position, alert
of manner, charming of personality, looked through
the window across the campus to a group of tourists
entering the Lee Memorial Chapel, where General Lee
lies buried.

H’ould Develop Personality

“Everyone entering upon administrative work has
dreams,’ suggested his visitor. “What are your
dreams for Washington and Lee?”

As Doctor Gaines talked, there emerged the vision
of a university of limited enrollment, working to exalt
the indivicual student’s personality seeking to point for
its youth the difference between knowledge and wisdom,
and to furnish its graduates with at least the beginnings
of a broadly outlined philosophy which might strike a
balance between the economic and spiritual elements in
modern life and so meet human needs and fulfill some-
thing of the expectations of the serious parent and stu-
dent.

“This relationship with Washington and Lee’s ap-
pealing opportunity to achievement and tradition I re-
gard built upon the richness of past more highly than
any other position to which I might aspire,” President
Gaines said. “I dream of a school in which personality
will be given its largest and finest play, where there is
possible an intellectual intimacy between student and
teacher, between student and student. I hope for a
school that will develop that fine quality of temperance
—self control both to restrain and to impel, a school that
shall all unconsciously swing the spirit of men out to
the supreme causes, the ultimate allegiances, the diviner

passions that give our lives their widest expression and
their consummate joy.

“It is too early yet for me to have devised more
than the beginnings of specific methods for carrying
further these emphases and objectives of Washington
and Lee. But I believe enthusiastically in the future
of the privately endowed college of picked students
numbering aproximately a thousand men. In this type
of school, the individual has more chances to emerge
with a distinct personality and the university itself is
less apt to become lost in the mass of modern education-
al organization.”

“You feel then that contact with a selected group
of moderate size is better than an informal program of
self-directed education, such as Mr. H. G. Wells and
others have recently prophesied ?” he was asked.

“Precisely. It is the swirl of personality that
adapts us to life, fits us into the general scheme as sure-
ly as ageless currents of water round pebbles into ap-
propriate form. Next fall there will come into colleges
for men a host of boys, away from home for the first
time. Some will be normal boys; but in the crowd will
come side by side thick skin and thin skin; the boy who
wants to be captain or he won't play, and the boy who is
too timid to be substitute water-carrier for the scrub-
team. Four years later they will go out fitted measur-
ably to the world. Sharp corners of disposition, pro-
truding knobs of temperament will have been worn away
by the swirl of fellowship.”

Finding Leaders

“And where does leadership come into this ?”’

“In the emergance from the crowd, the necessary
emergence of those with capacity to lead. In such em-
ergence, student or professor, of giant personality is
that which inspires us for life. Contact with heroic
spirits furnishes us dynamic for achievement on our
own part. The national legend of Mark Hopkins on
one end of a log and a farm boy on the other as the ideal
university is a true philosophy of developing a person-
ality.”

“You spoke of the difference between wisdom and
knowledge. Do you believe that this distinction is fun-
damental in the leadership which college-bred youth
make for this country among other nations?”

“Certainly, it seems to me, such an international
leadership depends upon such a philosophy, upon such
a point of view on the part of, the American people.
Our tremendous advance in scientific knowledge means
neither that all old ideas are futile nor that much new

[ 11 ]

a - A & oe

I

MAGA ézi Nee

 

information carries with it the wisdom to use it. As
one now and then hears wisely pointed out a vital need
of present-day national leadership is a re-arguing of the
old question, ‘Which is more important, the Body or
the Spirit’ ?”

“But have not American ideas brought much to
our civilization ?’

“Indeed they have. Our best architecture and
music and drama compare better with that of other
countries than is sometimes supposed; but it 1s true
nevertheless that America rules the world by virtue of
her economic body. And the notion that international
peace, harmony, happiness can be secured merely by
some profound economic readjustment seems to me
inadequate.”

“You feel, then, President Gaines, that America
should place her major emphasis upon transcending in-
terests, upon her soul, letting economic elements take
care of themselves ?” ;

Must Have Balance

“By no means. Both are necessary; a wise bal-
ance must be struck between them. And I feel that an
intelligent review of the factors of our national and in-
ternational life and the outlines of an attitude thereon,
and personalities for leadership therein should be
soundly planned and seriously begun in the intellectual
life of our universities.

“But education, of course, involves more factors
than those of government and international relations.
It includes discipline in the art of living, the grace of
social contact that may be transferred later to the wider
horizons. For of all the arts after all, the art of living
is the most significant; to miss competence in this re-
spect is to handicap life, is dreadfully to impoverish
life.”

Past the wall portraits of Washington and of Lee,
President Gaines looked out across the campus of many
generations, across to the Lee Museum where the U.
D. C. custodian was telling a group.of visitors of how
Lee refused offers of large salary, high position and
of ease to help rebuild the South as president of the col-
lege which the father of our country had selected and
endowed. |

Who was this young man who talked so defini-
tely of nourishing personality, building philosophies of
international leadership, of the significance of collegiate
experience, and who envisioned so largely for a univer-
sity intimately involved in the early history of Ameri-
ca?

Career as Educator.

For his age, his record shows an unusual breadth
of contact, university officials point out. Taking his
bachelor’s degree at Richmond College.in Virginia, he
proceeded to the Middle West, taking his M. A. de-
gree at the Uniyersity of Chicago, . Turning East then

.
to New York, he worked out his Ph. D. degree in Eng-
lish literature at Columbia University. I*or nine years
he taught at the Mississippi A. and M. College; three
vears as professor of English at Furman University in
South Carolina, and for three years he was president of
Wake Forest College in North Carolina. Four sum-
mers he taught English literature at the University of
Virginia and one summer was professor of English at
Columbia University. To this later position he was re-
elected when Wake Forest College called him as presi-
dent.

Three universities and one college have conferred
upon him honorary degrees. From Duke, he received
the Litt. D. degree; and from Mercer, Furman and
Wake Forest, the LL. D. degree.

He turned from his revery at the window and took
three pictures from his pocket.

“These are not for publication, of course,’ he
said. “But I thought you might be interested person-
ally.”

They were kodak pictures of Doctor Gaines’ three

three sturdy, bright-eyed youngsters, two in
knee trousers, one—‘Mussolini, the Dictator,” he ex-
plained—in rompers.

“I think I have the parent’s point of view,” he
smiled, “in the matter of concern about location and
atmosphere, objective and emphasis in American edu-
cation.”

sons,

gy)
vv

NICHOLS ON TOUR

Roy G. Nichols, ’27, baritone soloist, who has been
with the Boston Opera Company and appearing in
musicals in and around Boston, is now. on his first
Southern concert tour.

A Boston newspaper had the following to say re-
garding a musicale in which he appeared recently:
“Roy G. Nichols, the baritone soloist who now sings
in Malden in the Presbyterian Church in Boston, came
from Norfolk, Va., and was educated at Washington
and Lee University. He has a splendid stage pres-
ence, an artistic style and a voice of exceptional qual-
ity. It is a pleasure to hear a singer who has such
perfect phrasing, one who sings without apparent ef-
fort, and who presents his songs in such a pleas.ng
manner.”

While at Washington and Lee, Nichols was a
member of the Alpha Chi Rho fraternity, president of
the Glee Club, served on the Calyx staff, and was a
member of the Interfraternity Council.

It will be recalled by Alumni that Mr. Nichols
sang several selections at the Alumni Luncheon here
Commencement, 29.

—_——_O0——_—_—_——_——-

Among the graduates at Union Theological Sem-
inary at Richmond was Herman J. Womeldorf, '25, of
Lexington. ,

| 12 |

 

em tT &£ Acme 8: ae N

 

“ue CG ASS UT ee

New Orleans Alumni Honor Dean

A group of New Orleans alumni entertained with
a boat trip on the Mississippi in honor of Dean and
Mrs. Henry Donald Campbell on June 12th. Dean
Campbell was in New Orleans to deliver the annual
Phi Beta Kappa address at Tulane and to receive the
11..D. degree from the University. Through the
courtesy of the Board of Commissioners of the Port
of New Orleans the trip was made on the inspection
boat, Hugh McCloskey, a commodious yacht. The
Board wis represented by Messrs. McChesney, Her-
shev, and Sam Young, C. I.
98. Chief Engineer of the
dock.

Those participating in
the ride were: Dean and
Mrs. Campbell, Me .'l can
McChesney, Mr. Hershey,
\ir. Samuel Young, ’98, and
Mrs. Young, Mr. and Mrs.
A. B. Webb, and Mrs.
Breidenbach and_ children,
Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Winston,
Capt. and Mrs. H. H. Har-
vey and daughter, Mr. Lazu
Block, ’74, and Mrs. Block
and daughter and guest, Mrs.
William Dinwiddie and her
brother, William lL. Dab-
ney, 93. Mr. G. K. Logan,
Mrs. F. P. Hamilton and
Miss Kva Hamilton, Dean
Douglas S. Anderson, A. B.
‘90, Dr. Hugh M. Blain, M.
A., "94, Mrs. Blain, H. M.
Blain, Jr., and Miss Mar-
tha Blain, Professor Eugene
A. Nabors, A. B., ’26, and
guest, Mr. Palmer Orr, ’21,
Mr. Arthur Cromwe'l, °17,
Mr. John M. Wisdom, A,
B., <5, Mr. Norton L. Wisdom, A. B.,’27, Mr. William
a Gladney, '25, Mr. William F. Smith, A. B., ’26, Mr.
Kdward DeMontluzin, Mr. J. A. W. Smither, Jr., and
guest, Mr. Richard Butler and guest, Mr. T. H. Rus-
sell, Jr., and others. A special message of regret was
sent by Rev. Dr. W. McI*. Alexander, ’84, who is pas-

for ol a large Presbyterian church in New Orleans, and

a telegram of greeting and regrets came from. Mr. F.
, ° : . . . -
P. Hamilton, at Orange, who is now vice-president of

the texas Creosoting Company. Other alumni found
it impossible to be presnt on account of the shortmess

ol the time after the notice was sent out.

[ 13

 

“DEAN Harry”

Mr. Lazu Block recalled many incidents of the
college days during the early seventies, and especially
the famous hoax published in the Southern Collegian
of the burning of the Natural Bridge. ‘The story..was
substantiated by a forged letter of explanation signed
by the professor of chemistry, who was the father of
Dean Campbell.

Mr. Douglas S. Anderson is the highly _ prized
Dean of the College of Engineering, Tulane Univer-
sity.

Dr. Hugh M. Blain who
was for a number of years
a university
now agent of the New York
Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany at New Orleans.

Mr. Samuel Young as
Chief Engineer of the Board
of Commissioners of the
Port of New Orleans, has
the great responsibility of
looking after the dock.

Mr. O. H. Breidenbock
is engaged in business in
New Orleans.

Mr. Arthur Cromwell
is manager of a large chair

professor, 1s

factory.

Mr. B. P. Orr is help-
ing to manage a line of fruit
steamers.

Mr. John M. Wisdom
is practicing law and_ his
brother, Norton L. Wis-_
dom, and William K. Glad-
ney were graduated from the
College of Law at Tulane
June 11th.

Mr. William F. Smith,
who has been _ teaching
Spanish at Tulane, received the degree of Master of
Arts from that University on June 11th.

Mr. E. A. Nabors is now assistant professor of
law at Tulane University.

At a meeting of the New Orleans Alumni Asso-
ciation on the boat in the afternoon, the alumni schol-
arship for the session 1930-31 was awarded to Mr.
Waldo B. Utley, Jr., an honor graduate of Isadore
Newman Manual Training School. He is a son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Utley, prominent citizens of New
Orleans. Mr. Utley has accepted the appointment and
expects to matriculate in the University in September.

 

ee. Se A. See

mm £2 SS A 42.414

 

-—_——

Removals—1930 Contrasted With 1865 —

 

The arrival in Lexington of President Gaines and
his family from Wake Forest, North Carolina, pre-
sents an interesting contrast between the former days

and now.

Wake Forest is 200 miles from Lexington. Presi-
dent Gaines’ furniture and household goods were load-
ed into vans on Friday morning, reaching Lexington
Friday afternoon, the family making the trip by motor
in six hours.

General Robert E. Lee was elected president of
Washington College on August 4, 1865, and was in-
ducted into office on October 4. He rode to Lexington
from “Bremo” on Traveller making the journey of 108
miles in four days. After a short visit in the home of
one of the Trustees he went to the Hotel to stay until
his family could be moved to Lexington.

The house on the campus now occupied by Dr.
Shannon was then the president’s house. Dr. Junkin,
the president of Washington College in 1861, was a
Union sympathizer, and upon the opening of hostilities
had removed his family to Philadelphia where he found
a more congenial atmosphere.

When General Hunter and his troops entered Lex-
ington they burned and destroyed the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute and the homes of the officers there. They
were making preparations to burn the buildings of the
College but were dissuaded by a member of the Board
of Trusteees who informed the General that the Col-
lege was not a state institution and nothing could be
accomplished by destroying it. Great damage was done

 

 

to all the buildings and the books from the library scat-
tered far and wide over the grounds.

The house assigned to General lee had been rent-
ed to a Dr. Madison who was having serious difficul-
ties in securing another residence. In General Lee's
letters to his family many references are made to the
trouble he was having in getting possession of the
house. In the Minutes of the Board of that period a
committee was appointed ‘‘to take legal means, if neces-
sary,’ to get possession of the house.

Mrs Lee and the family were occupying a small

cottage at ‘“Bremo” on the estate of Mrs. Elizabeth
Randolph Cocke on the James River Canal about fif-
teen miles from Richmond. Mrs. Lee was a great in-
valid from rheumatism and had to be lifted whenever
she moved, hence all the details of the change of resi-
dence devolved upon General Lee.

Late in the Autumn the college got possession of
the house, which General Lee said was in “wretched
condition” and preparations went forward for the re-
moval of the family. The ladies of Lexington with
great enthusiasm entered into this labor of love and
the house was finally ready.

Many letters passed between General Lee and his
wife relative to the journey. At this time the packet-
boat from Lynchburg to Lexington, via the James Riv-
er and Kanawha canal, was the easiest way to reach
Lexington from the outside world. It was indeed the
only way, except by stage from Goshen, twenty-two

[ 14 |

_—

) EE
miles distant, a station of the C.&O.R.R.
ran from Lynchburg to Richmond.

General Lee wrote to his wife:

“Do net take the boat which passed ‘“Bremo” Sat-
day. It reaches Lynchburg on Sunday morning, ar-
riving here Monday night. You would in that case
have to lie at the wharf in Lynchburg all day Sunday.”
He did not know at that time that Captain Ellis, presi-
dent of the James River and Kanawha Canal Company,
had placed at Mrs. Lee's disposal his private boat.

Captain R. E. Lee, Jr., describes the boat and the

The canal

trip as follows:

“Tt was well fitted up with sleeping accommoda-
tions, carried a cook and dining room. It correspond-
ed to the private car of the present railroad magnate,
and, thought not so sumptuous, was more roomy and
comfortable. When provisions became scarce we pur-
chased fresh supplies from any farm-house near the
canal-bank, tied up at night, and made about four miles
an hour during the day.”

The family arrived at Lexington on the morning
of December 2nd. ‘The boat stopped near East Lex-
ington, about a mile and a quarter from town.

“My father, on Traveller, was there to meet us,
and, putting us all in a carriage, escorted us to our new
home. On arriving, we found awaiting us a delicious
breakfast sent by Mrs. Nelson, the wife of Professor
Nelson. ‘The house was in good order—thanks to the
ladies of Lexington—but rather bare of furniture, ex-
cept my mother’s rooms. Mrs. Cocke had completely
furnished them, and her loving thoughtfulness had not
fogotten the smallest detail. Mrs. Margaret J. Pres-
ton, the talented and well-known poetess, had drawn
the designs for the furniture, and a one-armed Confed-
erate soldier had made it all. A handsomely carved
grand piano, presented by Stieff, the famous maker ot

saltimore, stood alone in the parlour. ‘The floors were

covered with the carpets rescued from Arlington—
much too large and folded under to suit the reduced
size of the rooms. Some of the bedrooms were par-
tially furnished, and the dining room had enough in it
to make us comfortable. We were all very grateful and
happy-glad to get home—the only one we had had for
four long years.”

At Christmas, 1867, General Lee had been presi-
dent of the College for a little more than two years, liv-
ing in the house now occupied by Dr. Shannon. ‘The
increase in the student body and consequently the de-
mand for more professors required more homes. The
trustees decided to build a new house for the president
releasing his house for one of the professors. An ap-
propriation of $12,000 was made, which was later in-
creased to $15,000, and General Lee was authorized to
build according to a plan of his own selection. He took
a keen interest in this matter, and at once commenced
designing a new “President's House.”

An old frame house*stood on the site selected. Af-

 

I

Mw A. CG A Zt ee
ter the burning of the professors houses at the Virgin-
ia Military Institute this house had been occupied by
Colonel Williamson and his family. Dean Campbell,
whose father, Professor Campbell, lived next door to
the General, says that this house was moved “bodily”
to “Green Hill” where it now stands.

Miss Ellen Anderson says her father, Hon. Wil-
liam A. Anderson, told her that this house was built by
William Alexander, father of Archibald Alexander,
first President of Princeton Theological Seminary.

At Christmas, 1868, a year from the starting of the
house, Capt. R. E. Lee, Jr., writes: “The new house
was approaching completion, and my father was much
interested in the work, going there very often and dis-
cussing with the workmen their methods. That Christ-
mas I spent two weeks in Lexington, and many times
iny father took me all over the new building, explain-
ing all the details of the plan.”

In March 1869, General Lee writes:

“IT had hoped to get down this spring, but I fear
the dilatoriness of the workmen in finishing the house,
and the necessity of my attending to it, getting the
grounds inclosed and preparing the garden, will prevent
me. I shall also have to superintend the moving.”

In May, 1869, the new house was ready and the
move was easily accomplished. Mrs. Lee’s room was
on the first floor, and the broad veranda, extending
three sides of the house where she could be rolled in her
chair, had been designed especially for her comfort.

Captain Lee says :—‘This she enjoyed immensely,
for she was very fond of the open air, and one could
see her there every bright day with “Mrs. Ruffner,” a
much petted cat, sitting on her shoulder or cradled in
her lap. My father’s favorite seat was in a deep window
of the dining-room, from which his eyes could rest on
rolling fields of grass and grain, bounded by the ever
changing mountains. ‘There was a new stable for
Traveller and his companion “Lucy Long,” a cow-
house, wood-shed, garden and yard, all planned out, and
built by my father.”

Mr. Charles Pole, now living in Lexington, was
the son of the contracting carpenter who, under General
l.ee’s supervision, built the Chapel and also the Presi-
dent’s house. Mr. Pole was a small boy, seven or eight
years old. He would take his little wagon and play
around the house, gathering blocks and shavings. One
day he was admiring a game rooster in General Lee’s
chicken yard at the house next door. He did not see
General Lee at the time and did not know that the Gen-
eral had overheard him. The next morning he was
called out to his mother’s chicken yard and there was the
rooster, General Lee having sent it to him as a present.

The house has been completely renovated for Dr.
Gaines, with new paint, papering and electric light fix-
tures. It is much larger than one would judge from
seeing it from the outside, and is most convenient and
attractive.

[ 15 ]

: ie: ane: A b= fw fo

MAGA2Z2i1 #7

 

———

Gaines’ Inauguration to Be October 25

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines will be inaugurated
president of Washington and Lee university here on
October 25. At that time the 38-year-old educator
will become the thirteenth administrator of the insti-
tution founded by a group of Scotch Presbyterians in
1749; endowed by George Washington after the Rev-
olution; and headed by Robert E. Lee following the
War Between the States.

A committee from the Univers:ty trustees and fac-
ulty has made plans for the inaugural, which will take
place the day foillow:ng an annual meeting of the Board
of ‘Trustees on October 24.

Exercises of inauguration will take place in the
morning, to be followed by a luncheon at noon. Only
tentative plans have been made for the occasion, but tie
committee will meet again in a few weeks to work out
details of the inaugural.

WHILE OTHERS REST—

When Commencement passes over the horizon,
most of the members of Washington and Lee’s faculty
trek to summer
schools, summer
camps, and summer
homes. Among those
whose work continues
through vacations and
holidays is the Univer-
sity registrar, E. 5.
Mattingly.

Summer is a busy
season for Mr. Mat-
tingly—because every
season is a busy one
for him—and during
the vacation months
~ .he must be at his of-
fice every day to con-
sult with prospective

students, answer in-
| - quiries, arrange for
transcripts of credits, and complete the records of the
last year, |
| Mr. Mattingly, a graduate of Washington and
Lee, became registrar in 1920. Since then he has pre-
pared and carried out a program of work which has
made him-one of the most valuab'e, necessary, and re-
liable members of the administrative force.

Aside from the regular duties of the registrar's
oflice, Mr. Mattingly has charge of renting rooms in

 

E...S. MATTINGLY

[ 16 |

A football game in Lexington between Washing-
ton and Lee and St. Johns is scheduled for the after-
noon of Inauguration Lay.

The committee in charge of plans for the occasion
is made up of Harrington Waddell of the Board of
Trustees of the University and Dean Henry Donald
Campbell, Dr. Robert H1. Tucker, and Professor John
Graham, from the faculty. This committee is werking
with the new president on details of the inaugural.

Doctor Gaines came to Washington and Lee July
1 from Wake Forest college, where he had bee. pres.-
dent for two years. As thirteenth president of the
University he succeeds Dr. Henry Louis Smith, who
retired last January. From that time until the first of
July, Doctor Tucker, professor of economics, served as
acting president.

the University dormitories. With this goes the pleas-
ant task of collecting rents. During the latter part of
last year he was'a member of the committee whic. went
into a study of dormitory rules and regulations with
the view of increasing the service of Washington and
l.ee’s housing facilities. 6

A year ago the hard-working registrar superin-
tended the building of a new home for his fraternity,
Phi Delta Theta, in the fraternity area of the Uuivers.ty
campus.

If the reater has ever had occasion to send a letter
to Washington and Lee in the last ten years, that letter
in all probability passed through Mr. Matting.y’s
hands, for one of his small jobs—thrown in with the
rest of the work of his office—is placing mail in the
professorial sub-postoffice just outs.de the door to his
office in Newcomb Hall.

MEMORIAL FOR MORRISON

The Alumni Magazine has been much interested
to learn of the efforts being made through Captain
Greenlee D. Letcher, ’85, to have the State Commis+
sion erect a suitable marker on Highway No. 60, near
the birthplace of William M. Morrison, ’86, about two
miles west of Lexington on the Midland Trail.

There is no son of Washington and Lee whose
memory is more revered than William M. Morrison.
He was born on Kerr's Creek near Lexington, Vas,

(Continued on Page 48)

 

 

 

mW, £E Ace TSN «CS MAA Gi XM ZZ. Ite Ss

—aT¢ PrSTR. Tees Warzaly ¥.G S\Wy-19So- Moy 1931

A PLE A FOR LIBERTY HALL long before they tumble into a heap of rubbish, unless
It is to be

After this school had been established about the
beginning of the Revolutionary War at or near Timber
Ridge,—some six OF eight miles from Lexington,—the
| lition of affairs incident to the war was re-
for its being in a very few years suspended,
and never resumed at that point. The Rev. William
having closed the school, moved to his farm
He brought with him such library and
apparatus as the school then owned. After a_ little
was asked to take some of the students to
It was from this that the school

upset con

sp ynsible

Graham,
near Lexington.

while he
teach in his home.
made a new Start.

The records for the year 1782 have been lost, but
those of the next year show that the Trustees had done
two important things, namely, they had moved the
cchool to near lexington, and that they had obtained a
charter of incorporation. By this act of incorporation
the school passed out of the control of the Presbytery
which had founded it.

A building, probably of frame construction, was
erected in 1784, and served the purpose of the Aca-
demy until it was outgrown. So the Board began to
devise plans for a larger building. In this the Synod
of Virginia took part. By April, 1793, the funds in
hand or promised seemed to justify active steps, and a
house of stone, thirty feet by thirty-eight feet, three
stories, and containing twelve rooms, was let to con-
tract, and work actually begun in August of that year.
William Cravens of Rockingham county was the build-
er, and so vigorously did he prosecute the work that it
was completed by Christmas of the same year.

The Academy suffered pecuniary embarassment
all through its early history, and not until 1802, did this
stringency somewhat relax.

lt was about this time that the Trustees prudently
insured the building. It was well they did, for within
a few months thereafter the roof caught fire in the
night, and in a few hours the fire completed its work
of destruction, and only the gaunt walls remained. The
building, which had been the object of so much effort
and sacrifice, had been in use only a bare ten years. The
books, apparatus, and bedding, however, were practi-
cally all saved. The next building, on a new location,
was the Washington College which we know.

And now, after a hundred and thirty-odd years,
these old stone walls still stand, though exposed to the
elements, to wind and storm and winter's freeze. They
are indeed a monument. to the faithful workers who
It is little short of marvelous that they
| a most interesting ruin, a relic of the past,
suen as we have but few. But they will not much
longer remain intact. Indications are that the tooth of
time Is gnawing successfully toward destruction. Water
has entered and frozen, and pried the stones apart in
places. The walls are beginning to lean. It will not be

laid the stones.
still stand.

[17]
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

something be done to stay this happening.
hoped that this old ruin will some time come into pos-
session of Washington and Lee, and it is earnestly
hoped that it will be in time to brace and protect it, for
if it once falls that is the end of it, it would never be
rebuilt. Let some action be taken while there is yet
time. E. PENDLETON TOMPKINS.

Ly
a ee

PHI BETA KAPPA TAKES ALUMNI

The following Alumni were initiated into Phi Beta
Kappa, April 14, 1930:

W. ROSS McCAIN, 1894-96, graduated from the
University of Arkansas, Vice-President Hartford Fire
Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn.

W. D. A. ANDERSON, 1896-97, graduated from
United States Military Academy, Lieut.-Col. United
States Army, at present in charge of the improvements
at the port of Mobile, Ala.

L. T. WILSON, B. A., 1909, M. A., 1910, gradu-
ate work at Columbia University and Harvard. Ph.D.
Harvard 1915, now Associate Professor Mathematics
U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

R. H. SPAHR, B. S., 1909, M. S. University of
Kentucky, Associate Director of General Motors In-
stitute of Technology, Flint, Mich.

J. H. PRICE, LL.B., 1909, Lawyer in Richmond,
Va., at present Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia.

Initiated on May 9th:

R. A. LEWIS, JR., A. B., 1916, Associate Editor
American Banker’s Association Journal. Now. Vice-
President Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Chicago, II.

RT. REV. JAMES R. WINCHESTER, A. B.,
‘71, initiated by special dispensation at Little Rock,
Ark., June 17, 1930.

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY SHIELD
LIBRARY OF

LEXINGTON, YA.

—_,
.

He. & AO Lo UA Me A: Gk. 22i m

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
   

The Athletic Year

While the lone Southern Conference championship
won by the Generals in 1929-30 was in indoor track,
Washington and Lee was by no means without athletic
laurels this year.

Particularly gratifying was the marked success of
the indoor teams which brought the Blue and White to
the front in the sportdom of the south. Captain Dick
Smith's flashy five suffered reverses only twice during
the season in pre-tournament encounters. On the mat,
the wrestlers swept all opposition before them and en-
ded the winter with a clean slate in dual matches.

No doubt to the outside the success or failure of a
school’s football team is the determining factor as to
whether or not that institution has a successful year in
sports. Despite the hectic season on the gridiron the

 

mga
Aner

=e f

ete
‘
4
,

ace oh

 
   

&

 

 
  

 

Pa 3 ree Ie ‘She:
we BK eves

 

 

 

work of the Generals with three victories to their cred-
it is not without its degree of optimism. Installation
of the Notre Dame system, replacing the Warner meth-
od which had been in vogue for many years, was not
exactly an easy pastime for Coach Oberst. Pointing
toward next fall the Generals mentor called for spring
practice early in March.

With a team composed mainly of sophomores, the
cross-country runners failed to garner any team wins
last fall. Lack of both quantity and quality of distance
runners was also evident in the track meets this spring.

On the court, the basketers got off to a whirlwind
start. The loss to Duke here was the initial set-back
on the home floor for the Blue and White in three
years. After advancing to the second round of the
tournament Washington and Lee was eliminated by the
Tennessee Vols.

It was not until Coach Mathis took his grapplers
to West Point and surprised the Army with an over-
whelming victory that the followers of the mat sport
began to look for big things from the wrestlers. Every

~

 

es.

. * — ae
rer >= ERS Ne =
* . -

 

I Mi. toe Ft: ON

 

 

cS es ta ‘a4
5. es
ge” gent i nae) er . P
o beef

:

Zig?

ae as
tar se 4 “

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

team met was another victory for the Generals. ‘Tex
Tilson, who went through the season undefeated, was
the lone Mathis protege to gain a Southern Conference
crown.

The lighter weights proved the mainstay for the
boxing contingent. Captain-elect Sloshburg, fighting
in the 125 pound division, and Robertson, lightweight,
led the attack against such formidable foes as George-
town, North Carolina, and Catholic University.

On the boards, the varsity thinclads managed to
win second and third honors in the Virginia games and
dual meet with Virginia, but the climax of the season
came when the Generals emerged with first honors in
the Southern Conference Indoor Carnival at North
Carolina University.

Eight wins and nine defeats composed this year’s
baseball schedule. While not a game was won away
from home, victories over Lafayette, North Carolina,
University, V. P. L., and William and Mary helped to

 

.
7
|

————— oe ae

change the mediocre season into a season of intense in-

terest.

I

Washington and Iee swimmers after defeating
the best national representatives in the south, chose to
take a northern trip instead of entering the Southern

Conference championship for mermen.

Only one dual loss was registered by the outdoor
track combination. ‘The Tar Heels who have yet to

lose a dual meet in eight vears, beat the Generals. As
examinations came at the time of the Conference
championships, the Blue and White did not enter any

runners in those meets.

Tennis proved as popular as ever with the north-

ern trip as the outstanding part of the program.

Intra-mural sports in track, wrestling,

boxing,

handball, and tennis attracted more entries than in for-

mer years and showed the respective coaches
promising material was not on freshman or
squads.

that all
varsity

I

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
     

- Vee te AL) See

Crew Race Continues; Times Changed

A fifty-six vear old athletic custom was carried
out at Washington and Lee Finals week when the an-
nual crew races between the Albert Sidney and the
Harry Lee clubs on North River resulted in a three-
way victory for Harry Lee. These races marked the
end of the athletic year at W. & L., and the beginning
of Finals Week at the University. On Friday after-
noon freshman and junior crews raced, and on Satur-
day the big event was held.

Back in 1873 two groups of students at the Uni-
versity organized rowing clubs to pass away dull Sun-
day afternoons. One club was named after General
Albert Sidney Johnston and the other after “Light
Horse” Harry Lee. Some one conceived the idea of a
grand race between the two clubs; and ever since, at
the end of the school year, the Red of Harry Lee and
the Blue of Albert Sidney have fought their way over
a mile and a quarter course for rowing honors of the
season.

Rowing is a minor sport at Washington and Lee
and monograms are given winners of the one race of
the year. For nearly three months the crews train for
this one race, and rivalry is keen. In bygone days al-
most any old boat had to serve, but now four-oared
shells are used. ‘The University athletic budget will
not support intercollegiate rowing, and eight-oar shells
are too large for North river; but competition is still
strong.

But times have changed. The race is a tradition,
and doubtless will continue for years, but interest has
waned. Letter crews row in better shells now, but the
glamor of student dances and the confusion of school-
ending details have detracted from the contest. Stu-
dents crowd the “Island” at the end of the course as of
old. They await with excitement the appearance of
surging shells around the bend in the river, but when
the race is over it’s just one more thing in a busy sea-
son called “Finals.”

Time was when the crew race was the big athletic
- and social event of the Washington and Lee campus.
It was the day when students brought their best girls
to town; when the business men made a “cleaning” in
the morning and then closed up shop for the afternoon ;
when livery stable proprietors rented horses and buggies
engaged long before; when red lemonade, blue and red
streamers, confetti and horns lent color to the spectacle.

Since the competition started more than half a
century ago, the Harry Lee’s have won twenty-eight
races to twenty-one for the Albert Sidney’s. Several
races were a draw, and at least one was not finished
because two eager coxwains elected to ply the middle

[ 22 ]

MAGAzZt1iiZ

ee

of the stream at the same time and the oars of the two —
shells locked. The ‘first race was one of the draws, —
One crew claimed a foul, and as nobody could see —
around the bend the race was called “even Stephen.”
More than once oars have broken or oarsmen have col- —
lapsed, and several times races have been lost because—
someone toppled overboard.

Even railroad companies contributed to the gala
occasion back in the eighties. In 1882 a special train
ran along the track bordering the river. This was
when the race was over a course below the dam at
Lexington. Now the race carries over a course above —
the dam, and motorboats, rowboats, and canoes aid anx-
ious ones to follow the struggling crews.

A statue of George Washington atop of the Wash-
ington and Lee buildings was helped to eternal preser-
vation by rivalry between the two clubs years ago. One
morning the statue would be a brilliant biue, the next
a fiery red. ‘Then, when the excitement died down,
the University repainted “Ole George” in his original
white coat. Carved out of one large walnut log, the
statue has been painted at least twice yearly since the
last century because on Freshman Night first-year stu-—
dents emulate the example of the Lee’s and Sidney’s
of old.

NEW BASKETBALL COACH

Appointment of Ray Ellerman, former basketball
and baseball star at Wisconsin and now assistant bas-
ketball coach at his Alma Mater, as head basketball
coach at Washington and |_ee University, is announced
by Captain R. A. Smith, director of Athletics.

 

Ellerman, who made a name for himself in Big
Ten circles both as player and coach, will report for
duty at Washington and Lee September Ist. He will
act as trainer of the Generals’ football team.

The new court tutor comes to Washington and Lee
at a time when he will have all the opportunity in the
world to develop an outstanding basketball team. The
Generals, one of the strongest basketball combinations
in the South this year, will be intact save Captain Er-_
nest Wood, Lynchburg, who graduated at commence-
ment. In addition to the sensational Leigh Williams,
Cox, Hanna, Barrasch, and Martin, Ellerman will have
half a dozen strong men coming up from the freshman
team of this year.

Coach Ellerman received letters three years at

Wisconsin in basketball and baseball, the former being
his specialty. In 1929 the team he led captured the

 

ah Pe A 7a. oa IN

|

me A Me AA ee eee ee

 

 

Big Ten title, and last year’s Wisconsin quintet worked
well under him.

Klerman holds both bachelor’s and master’s de-
erees from Wisconsin. He comes to Washington and
Lec highly recommended by W. E. Meanwell, famous
Wisconsin coach.

“\We consider ourselves fortunate to secure a man
of Mr. Ellerman’s ability and personality,’ Captain
Smith the “He
should prove a worthy addition to our coaching staff.”

said in announcing appointment.

—— -—-—() ---—-——

UP ROSE RAMSEY

The Sport Talkies of the 1 Paso Herald of June
21st, says:

First, we answer \W. K. Ramsey’s letter. He points
out that a recent issue carried a picture and story of
the new basketball coach at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and the story said the university was located at

Mr.
“lor most of the 180 years of its existence, Washington

Ramsey.

Lexington, Kentucky. Wrong, says 1
and Lee University has been located at Lexington, Vir-
vinia,”’ he writes. Right, Mr. Ramsey, and we're glad
to correct it. It happened that this observer roomed
for a year at Austin with Tex Bryan, for four years a
euard on the Washington and Lee football team and
we know the glories of the great school mighty well.
Thanks for calling attention to the error.

Mr. Ramsey is an alumnus of the class of ’07.

 

—O

AND NOW FOOTBALL

With Spring Sports tucked away for another
year, thoughts of those athletically minded are already
turning to football, and Washington and Lee alumni
will await with interest the 1930 edition of the General
pigskin series. Within a few weeks after this is read,
Coach Eugene Oberst and his Washington and Lee
eridders will be preparing for the 1930 campaign.

Alumni work of
Oberst and his assistant, ““Bus’’ Malone this year. A

will watch with interest the
revamped schedule confronts the General coaches, and
students and alumni. and friends of the school are look-
ing forward to a winning team.

with all sentimental

feelings cast aside, the situation is about this:

Down in black and white,

Washington and Lee should have a mighty good
first team this year, but reserve material will be badly
lacking. If Oberst can get his first string in condi-
tion to stand the bumps of a hard campaign without in-
jury, things should go well. If injuries rob this first
team of many members, things just couldn't go well for
any coach. J,ast year Oberst, new at Washington and
Lee, spent hour on hour schooling his charges in a new
style of football. Many other angles of football had to

be cast aside to provide time for learning the new sys-

[ 23

 

HEAD CoAcH OBERST

tem. This year things will be different. ‘The men
will know the game as Oberst wants it played; they will
have had a year of his style behind them. More time
will be available for fine points and finishing touches.

Half a
dozen new men possessed of ability were found, atten-

Spring football this year was a success.

dance at practice was good, results were obtained.
Coach Oberst has issued first call for September 1st. A
squad of fifty or more will report at that time, and by
the date school opens the whole outfit should be in
pretty good shape.

sy)
Vv

LEXINGTON GROWS

Alumni may be interested in the growth of Lex-
for the curious.
There are 880 more souls in Lexington than ten years

ington. Here is a brief tabulation
ago.

Pop. of Lexington
Pop. of Lex. District
Outlying District

1920—2,870 ;
1920—4,314 ;
1920—1,414;

“yy
Vv

1930—3,750
1930—5 ,600
1930—1,850

Work is being done on about five miles of state
highway, route 33, extending from the northern cor-
porate limit of Roanoke to Route 208 near Hollins.
Route 33 is known as the Williamson road. The road
is to be converted into one-course macadam highway.

 

O
rank Charlton, ’27, received his B. D. from Yale
this year. He is now traveling in Europe.

ne

A 2L AU eae

I Ms ae ee ge

N  E

 

Stephen Vincent Benet Paints New

Reprinted by permission from Doubleday, Page & Co.

And now at last,

Comes Traveller and his master, Look at them
well.

The horse is an iron-grev, sixteen hands high,

Short back, deep chest, strong haunch, flat legs,
small head

Delicate ear, quick eye, black mane and tail,

Wise brain, obedient mouth.

Such horses are
the jewels of the horseman’s hands and thighs,
They go by the word and hardly need the rein.
They bred such horses in Virginia then,
Horses that were remembered after death
And buried not so far from Christian ground
That if their sleeping riders should arise
They could not witch them from the earth again
And ride a printless course along the grass
With the old manage and light ease of hand
The rider, now

He too, is iron-grey,
Though the thick hair and thick, blunt-pointed
beard
Have frost in them.

Broad-foreheaded, deep-eyed,
Straight-nosed, sweet-mouthed, firm-lipped, head
cleanly set.
He and his horse are matches for the strong
Grace of proportion that inhabits both.
They carry nothing that is in excess
And nothing that is less than symmetry,
The strength of Jackson is a hammered strength,
Bearing the tool marks still. This strength was
shaped
By as hard arts but does not show the toil
Except as justness, though the toil was there.
—And again so we get the marble man again,
The head on the Greek coin, the idol-image,
The shape who stands at Washington's left hand.
Worshipped, uncomprehended and aloof,
A figure lost to flesh and blood and bones,
Frozen into a legend out of life,
A blank-verse statue—The question is:

How to humanize
That solitary gentleness and strength
Hidden behind the deadly oratory
Of twenty thousand Lee Memorial Days,
How show, in spite of all the rhetoric,
All the sick honey of the speechifiers,

Proportion, not as something calm congealed
From lack of fire, but ruling such a fire

As only such proportion could contain ?

The man was loved, the man was idolized,

The man had every just and noble gift.

He took great burdens and he bore them well,
Believed in God but did not preach too much,
Believed and followed duty first and last

With marvelous consistency and force,

Was a great victor, in defeat as great,

No more, no less always himself in both,

Could make men die for him but saved his men
Whenever he could save them—

For here was so
In the most flere
Wrote letters f
|.istened and tall
And kept his he
Krom ail the pie
tle was a man,
love, separatior
He was a maste
He gave great
great.

He was the proj

 

was most kind

But was not disobeyed—was a good
father ,

A loving husband, a _ considerate
friend:

Had little humor, but enough to
play |

Mild jokes that never wounded, but
had charm,

Did not seek intimates, yet drew
men to him,

Did not seek fame, did not protest
against it,

Knew his own value without pomp
or jealously,

And died as he preferred to live—
sans phrase?

With common sense, tenacity and
courage,

A Greek proportion—and a riddle
unread.

And everything that we have said
is true

And nothing helps us yet to read
the man,

Nor will he help us while he has the strength

To keep his heart his own.

 

7

For he will smile
And give you, with unflinching courtesy,
Prayers, trappings, letters, uniforms and orders,
Photographs, kindness, valor and advice,
And do it with such grace and gentleness
That you will know you have the whole of him
Pinned down, mapped out, easy to understand—
And so you have.

All things except the heart.

The heart he kept himself, that answers all.

[ 24 ]

 

(GENERAL

The incarnation
And when the

He must have 1
But what his s

And how he fel
And how his he
He will not tell

Dress up a dum
And put our wé
Say “Here Lee

no doub

E ey cee He IN Ee

MAO A er

 

icture of Lee in “John Brown’s Body”

‘ho lived all his life
en light of the sun,

not guard his speech,
» every sort of man,

ret to the end

f biographers.

man he knew

, joy and death.

ricks of war,

and warded strokes as

lar of a State,

sy what we know of him, we may suppose
He felt—this pang or that—’ but he remains
seyond our stagecraft, reticent as ice,

Reticent as the fire within the stone.

Yet—look at the face again—look at it well—
This man was not repose, this man was act.
This man who murmured “It is well that war
Should be so terrible, if it were not
\Ve might become too fond of it—’’ and showed
Himselt, for once, completely as he lived
In the laconic balance of that phrase ;

This man could reason, but he was

 

rr
PRAVELLER

onal dream.

and the dream dissolved
bitterness itself—

}and what his joy,
‘pense of strength,

hed its bitterness,

We can lie about him,
Uniform

he dummy’s mouth,
t thought,” and “There,

 

a fighter,
Skillful in
fense

every weapon of de-

But never defending when he could
assault,

Taking enormous risks again and

again,

retreating

could strike,

Dividing a weak force on dangerous
ground

And joining it again to beat a
strong,

Mocking at chance and all the odds
of war

With acts that looked like
breadth recklessness

—We do not call them
since they won.

Proportion that controlled the reck-

lessness—

Never while he still

 

hair-

reckless.

We do not see them reckless for
the calm

But that attacking
there.

He was not mild with life or drugged with

quality was

justice,
He gripped life like a wrestler with a bull,
Impetuously. It did not come to him
While he stood waiting in a famous cloud,
He went to it and took it by both horns
And threw it down.

Oh, he could bear the shifts
Of time and play the bitter loser’s game,
The slow, unflinching chess of fortitude,
sut while he had an opening for attack
He would attack with every ounce of strength.

[ 25 ]

His heart was not a stone but trumpet-shaped
And a long challenge blew an anger through it
That was more dread for being musical
first, last, and to the end.

Again he said:
A curious thing to live,
“I’m always wanting something.”

The brief phrase
Slides past us, hardly grasped in the smooth flow
Of the well-balanced, mildly-humorous prose
That goes along to talk of cats and duties,
Maxims of conduct, farming and poor bachelors,
Sut for a second there, the marble cracked
And a strange man we never saw before
Showed us the face he never showed the world
And wanted something—not the general
Who wanted shoes and food for ragged men,
Not the good father wanting for his children,
The patriot wanting victory—all the Lees
Whom all the world could see and recognize
And hang with gilded laurels—but the man
Who had, you'd say, all things that life can give
Ikxcept the last success—and had, for that,
Such glamor as can wear sheer triumph out,
Proportion’s son and Duty’s eldest sword
And the calm mask who—wanted something still,
Somewhere, somehow and always.

Picklock Biographers.
What could he want that he had never had ?

 

the marble closed—
There was a man enclosed within that image.

He only said it once-

There was a force that tried Proportion’s rule
And died without a legend or a cue

To bring it back. ‘The shadow-Lees still live.
But the first person and the singular Lee?

The ant finds kingdom in a foot of ground

ut earth’s too small for something in our earth,
We'll make a new earth from the summer’s cloud
From the pure summer's cloud.

It was not that
It was not God or love or mortal fame.
It was not anything he left undone.
—What does Proportion want that it can lack?
—What does the ultimate hunger of the flesh
Want from the sky more than a sky of air?
That must be enough.
Now he rides Traveller back into the mist.

He wanted something.

kxcerpt from John Brown’s Body
By Stephen Vincent Benet.

a Pee ke AL UV ae

I

MA GAZ Iii

 

NEW PROFESSORS

Returning alumni next year will find many new
faces on the Washington and Lee faculty. From
president down, changes have been made, and, aside
from the administrative side, ten new men will be
found on the faculty roster.

Little need be said of the new president. He is
already known to Washington and Lee men all over
the world. Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines took office

July 1.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, acting president of the
University during the second semester last year, will
return to his headship of the Department of Economics
in the School of Commerce and Administration.

Prof. Roscoe B. Ellard, director of Journalism,
has returned to his Alma Mater, the University of
Missouri, to head the department of editorial writing.
He is succeeded by Prof. William L. Mapel who will
be acting head of the Department of Journalism.

Mr. Ellard came to Washington and Lee in 1925
to re-establish the teaching of Journalism at the school
in which it was first begun in 1869. Since coming to
the University, Professor Ellard has placed the work
on a sound foundation in addition to directing a full
publicity program for the University. Last year he
raised money and secured equipment to establish a
printing laboratory in his department.

Two professors have resigned from the faculty
of the School of Commerce and Administration. They
are Carl E. L. Gill and E. E. Ferebee. In addition, E.
H. Howard has been granted a leave of absence. Alum-
ni will remember Professor Gill for his active interest
in extra-curricular activities as well as his classroom
efforts. Mr. Gill has for many years directed decora-
tions for all Washington and Lee social functions.

Professor P. C. Shedd and Robert H. McDorman
have resigned from the faculty of the School of Ap-

plied Science; and leaves of absence have been granted
to M. H. Stowe, W. F. Bailey, and B. R. Ewing.

All but two of the vacancies on the faculty had
been filled when this issue of the Alumni Magazine
went to press. Prof. Paul B. Cooper, former head of
the Department of Commerce, Georgia State College
for Men will succeed Mr. Gill, and Earl W. Bill, Wash-
ington and Lee, ’21, will take Mr. Ferebee’s place. Cecil
D. Smith, instructor in accounting at the University of
Virginia, has been selected to fill the vacancy caused
by the leave granted Professor Howard.

In the Department of Geology Chamberlain Ferry
will teach in Mr. Stowe’s place next year, and Norman
J. Harrar will replace Professor Bailey. John K.

LL

Leslie will teach romance languages while Mr. Ewing
is on leave.

Ollinger Crenshaw, former instructor in history
at Washington and Lee, returns next year as assistant
professor after a year at Johns Hopkins working to-
ward his doctorate.

Oscar W. Riegel comes to the Department of
Journalism as assistant professor to succeed Professor
Mapel. Mr. Riegel is a former newspaper man of
Chicago and New York, who comes to Washington and
Lee from Dartmouth where he taught two years.

Washington and Lee’s trustees, at their June
meeting, recognized the excellent service of Dean Jas.
Lewis Howe of the School of Applied Science and
asked him to return to his post next vear despite the
fact that he has reached the retirement age.

The trustees also named William Hinton instruc-
tor in ducation and Psychology. Mr. Hinton served
as a graduate assistant last year.

Assistant Professor Marvin G. Bauer was promo-
ted to the rank of associate professor in the Depart-
ment of English at the June meeting of the Buard of
Trustees.

Washington and Lee faculty for the session of
1930-31 will be made up of fifty-five men who devote
all or part of their time to teaching and fourteen per-
sons engaged in administrative work.

 

¢y
Vv

TUCKER SPEAKS IN GEORGIA

Dr. Robert H. Tucker spoke before the Institute
of Public Affairs at the University of Georgia at Ath-
ens, July 16th, his subject being “The Reorganiza-
tion of the Virginia Government Under the Adminis-
tration of Harry F. Byrd.”

Besides his talk on the Virginia government, Doc-
tor Tucker entered into a discussion on ‘The Reor-
ganization of State Government.’ He _ has _ been
closely connected with reorganization in Virginia and
has presented the subject to various civic organiza-
tions in this and other states.

Dr. Tucker was a member of the Virginia Com-
mission on simplification and economy of government
in 1922-24, and co-author of the report of that com-
mission, a report that was rated as “the most influen-
tial ever submitted by a commission in Virginia.” He
was a member of the Virginia Commission of simplifi-
cation and consolidation of 1926, which in conjunction
with Governor Byrd, aided in laying the foundation
for the legislature on reorganization adopted in Vir-
ginia. He is president of the Virginia State Chamber
of Commerce committee on state taxation and served
in 1918 and ‘19 as chairman of the Virginia Industrial
commission.

[ 26 |

 

mu iE Aa Tee ON

——

PRESIDENT’S REPORT

Divulging many interesting facts about general
progress of the | niversity as well as certain changes
and needs the alumni should recognize, the report ol
Dr. R. H. Tucker, acting president, was published by
the Journalism Laboratory the middle of May. “First,”
Doctor ‘Tucker said, “we must record the sad deaths of
Mr. Hugh Bell Sproul, alumnus and trustee of the uni-
versity, who died September 5, 1929; and of Dr. Frank-
lin Lafayette Riley, head of the history department,
who died November 10, 1929. ‘To fill the vacancies in
the Board caused by the deaths of Mr. Hugh Bell
Sproul, of Staunton, and of Mr. John S$. Munce, of
Richmond, two new trustees were elected by the Board:
Hon. George Campbell Perry, LL.B., "97; and Hon.
Louis Spencer pes, LL.B., ‘OS.

Mr. Munce left a bequest of $1,000 to be known
as the Lelia Gilliam Munce fund. The income from
the bequest is to purchase new books for the library.

The library also benefitted by the will of Thomas
Y. Hoge Patterson, of Philadelphia, who left some fit-
teen hundred fine volumes from his personal library,
and around $30,000 in money for purchasing new
books. ‘This gave the library its chance to complete a
plan for a browsing room on the second floor of the
library. Here, in a room furnished years ago by Mrs.
John H. Moore, in memory of her father, Samuel Mc-
Dowell the volumes of the Patterson
library find an attractive and appropriate setting for the
interested student.

\ | oore, rare

In discussing financial affairs of the University,
Doctor ‘Tucker estimated it would cost $50,000 to put
the university buildings in a proper state of repair, es-
pecially Washington College, which should in time be
completely restored. An interesting passage from Dr.
Tucker’s report discussing the operating costs of the
university, following his statement that for the past
year approximately 62 per cent. of the university’s
tunds was derived from tuition and laboratory fees and
about 25 per cent. from endowment, follows:

These figures are introduced at this point for the
purpose of emphasizing the large extent to which the
institution is now dependent upon tuition fees for sup-
port. In this respect the conditions are almost exactly
the reverse of the conditions existing prior to the
World War. In 1915 more than one-half of the an-
nual income of the university was derived from endow-
ment, while less than one-third was derived from tui-
tion and laboratory fees. The problem of increasing
the general endowment is, in my opinion, the most vital
and pressing problem confronting the university at this
time.

Scholarship is on the upgrade, Dean H. D. Camp-
bell reported. favorable is that the
Dean’s list, an Honor Roll with special absence privi-
leges for students with B average or better, shows

ne indication

|

me GAA BOE ee ee

twenty-three more men at the end of this session than
at the same time last session. Statistics show an in-
crease of 4 per cent. in the A and B grades this year
over the last three years. Failures also have been
minimized appreciably.
To regulate student operation of automobiles, the
No freshman
No student may drive without
Students must their
cars at the Dean’s office. 4. Deficient class work may
remove the privilege of driving. Under these rules

126 student licenses were issued this year.

faculty this year passed four rules: 1.
may operate acar. 2.

parental consent. 3. register

 

ACTING PRESIDENT TUCKER

The Registrar’s report shows despite child prod-
igies the average age of all students from the academ-
ic, science and commerce departments is 19.64 years;
average of all students in law 22 years; average age of
all students for the entire student body is 19.90 years.
Here is a partial classification of the 912 students by
residence. Only a few of the most heavily-represented
states are given:

Virginia, 190; New York, 68; Pennsylvania, 54;
West Virginia, 50; Florida, 48; Kentucky, 44; Ala-
bama, 43; Texas, 42; New Jersey, 38; Ohio, 36; Ten-
nessee, 35.

In Student Church affiliation there were 274 Pres-
byterians, 175 Methodists, 159 Episcopalians, 108 Bap-

No other denominations are heavily represented.
Reporting for the School of Law Dean W. H.
Moreland suggested the law School could make good
use of an added teacher. This increase in teaching
staff would likely result in greater enrollment; would
somewhat increase the prestige of the school, and would
give the second and third year men greater opportunity
to specialize.

tists.

a Yar is A Sh. ene a I Mn eee tA Aen) Ne ae

End Comes to William A. Anderson

Honorable William Alexander Anderson died at
his home on Letcher avenue, Lexington, Va., at mid-
day Saturday, June 21, 1930. He had attained the

 

In its baptism of fire as a part of what was ever
afterwards to be known as the Stonewall brigade, ‘at
lirst Manassas, on July 21, 1861, he was fearfully

great age of eighty-eight years. His latter years were wounded in the leg, in the slaughter of his comrades of

marked by physical
infirmities and retire-
ment.

He was one of
the last of the genera-
tion in Rockbridge so
many of whom hon-
ored and loved him;
hardly as many as a
half dozen of the
Confederate soldiers
with whom he served
in the great War of
1861-65 as part of a
Rockbridge command
survive to learn of
his death.

The career of
William A. Anderson
covered the “Tragic
Era” in Rockbridge,
which he _ rejoiced
greatly to see in his
day permanently
made a part of the
past in the complete
restoration of Virgin-
ia finally accom-
plished in the gover-
norship of Harry F.
svrd, whose career
and accomplishments
he cordially supported
and rejoiced in.

Though born in
Montrose, Fincastle,
in the neighboring
county of Botetourt,

he was through his

mother, Mary Ann

 

WILLIAM

Alexander, of Rockbridge lineage, of which he

ever proud. <A college boy at Washington College he
fell into the spirit of its people, when as
sergeant of the Washington College company, the
Liberty Hall Volunteers, a noble command recruit-
ed in part with other sons of the best part of the coun-
ty, he led the company to the front to enter the Civil

war in April, 1861.

an orderly

 

ALEXANDER ANDERSON

 

his company and
command. This prac-
tically retired him
from active military
service.

He took up his
residence in Rock-
bridge as a_ lawyer
having studied at the
University of  Vir-
ginia, in 1867. It
was an epochal time,
the date of the hu-
miliating re-con-
struction legislation
put upon Virginia by
radical members’ of
songress, led by Thad
Stevens. Young
Anderson’s crippled
leg, his splendid pres-
ence and his pleasing
and sympathetic
ereetings, his gifts as
a public speaker and
the spirit which in-
spired him, and
seemed to go with him
through life, to re-
deem the old com-
monwealth from her
misfortune, so made
its impress upon the
people of Rockbridge
that in the great poli-
tical contest of 1870
of the Conservative
party to redeem the
commonwealth, under
the lead of Gilbert C.

was Walker for governor, he was nominated and elected

ditions in the commonwealth.

state senator from the Rockbridge-Botetourt district.

In this body he patriotically labored to restore con-
The outstanding event
of his service in the senate was the introduction of the
bill establishing the public school system of Virginia,
which he successfully championed. The bill, as the

public know, Mr. Anderson received from the hands of

[ 28 ]

 

=H £ Asa): GA wt. N

 

Dr. William Henry Ruffner, elected first superinten-
dent of ‘instruction of Virginia, who in the report of
this measure laid the foundation for his reputation as
“The Father of the Public School System of Virginia.”

Subsequently the Rockbridge Democrats called up-
on Willam A. Anderson to lead in the presentation of
eood government in the commonwealth. — It is to be re-
membered that in his public career he was a man who
Whatever office he held was on
He was called in

never sought office.
the invitation of his fellow citizens.
1879 to lead in a fight to stem in this county the wave
of Re-adjusterism which was splitting the good people
of Virginia. As a candidate for the house, along with
the late James E. A. Gibbs, he lost in a noble contest to
James A. Frazier and John B. Lady in 1879. ‘The call
came to him in 1883 again to take up the lead. He won,
defeating Mr. Frazier. Associated with him was Mat-
thew W. Paxton as a candidate. The other Re-adjus-
ter candidate was Samuel M. Hileman. The result of
this state contest in 1883 was to restore to the Demo-
cratic party the government of the state.

The fact became impressed upon the people of the
commonwealth that it was imperative that the disturb-
ing effects of Nevro suffrage in the Black Belt be re-
moved. A convention was called in 1899 to accomplish
this. Rockbridge then called upon William A. Ander-
son to represent her in this great work. He was se-
lected along with J. William Gilmore and entered into
the accomplishment of the great reform which elevated
the suffrage in Virginia to a basis that assured good
government with fairness to both races. ‘Then as al-
ways he served Virginia and the county well. He
served as temporary chairman of this convention.

Immediately after the constitutional convention
the Virginia Democrats in session at Norfolk nomi-
nated William A. Anderson as the first attorney gen-
He was triumphantly
elected and was re-elected for another term. Upon
him was placed the arduous and important duty to de-
fend the attacks made upon the new constitution, which
involved particularly the reformed suffrage. He was
also called upon to institute legal procedure with West
Virginia for the final settlement of the Virginia state
debt. This, with able counsel associated with him em-
ployed by the state, he successfully carried through the
supreme court of the United States, the final decrees
being rendered after Mr. Anderson retired from office,
but while he was still retained by the state to represent
it.

eral under the new constitution.

In intervening times he also represented the county
in the general assembly. In the development of the
county well on to fifty years after the Civil war, there
was no movement in which he was not conspicuous. It
was so in her railroad development, it was so in all
movements for highway betterment. It was true in the
creditable remembrance to our great soldiers that can
be witnessed now in memorials to Lee and Jackson at

J

Ma AS: Gi A 2. Tee

Lexington, in the creation of which Rockbridge Confed-
erates led.

lor six years Mr. Anderson was a member of the
state Democratic executive committee. He served in
1878 as one of the United States commissioners to the
Paris International Exposition and in 1899 was elected
president of the Virginia Bar association. He enjoyed
a large and remunerative practice at the bar. For some
years he was associated with the late Colonel James K.
I.dmundson as a law partner.

The devoted work of Mr. Anderson for his Alma
Mater, Washington and Lee University, is to be re-
membered. He was a member of its board of trustees
from 1884 to the time of his death, and its rector from
1914 until several years ago when declining health nec-
essitated his retirement from these duties. On him as
one of the local trustees there fell a large end of the
work of guiding the institution, and its call never failed
to receive ready response from him.

In early life Mr. Anderson connected himself with
the Episcopal church and served for many years as a
vestryman of R. EK. Lee Memorial church.

Funeral services were conducted at the church
Monday afternoon at 4 o’clock by Bishop Robert Carter
Jett and Dr. Churchill J. Gibson, former pastor of the
church. Interment was in the family plot in the Lex-
ington Presbyterian cemetery. A touch of the military
in rememberance of his Civil war days, was the blowing
of taps as the casket, draped in the flag of the Confed-
eracy, was lowered.

Members of the board of trustees and faculty of
Washington and Lee University, members of the board
of directors of the Rockbridge National bank, officials
of the town and county acted as honorary pall-bearers.
Delegations were also in attendance from Camp Frank
Paxton, Sons of Confederates and Rockbridge Post
American Legion.

William Alexander Anderson was born in Bote-
tourt county May 11, 1842. He was a son of Francis
T’. Anderson, of Botetourt, and Rockbridge, judge of
the supreme court and rector of Washington and Lee
University. His paternal ancestor, Robert Anderson,
came to this country from Donegal, Ireland, in 1755,
settling in Delaware and later coming to Botetourt
county. His mother was Mary Ann Alexander, a
daughter of Andrew Alexander, in the early part of
last century an outstanding citizen of Rockbridge and
descendant of Archibald Alexander. Mr. Anderson's
ancestry was of the best Colonial and Revolutionary
stock, the Anderson’s of Botetourt and the Alexander’s
of Rockbridge. In the history of this people he took
the pride of a son. With it he was very familiar and
he was often called in later years to deliver addresses
bearing upon it.

Mr. Anderson was twice married. His first wife
was Ellen G. Anderson, of Richmond, who died in
January, 1872. After her death he married Mary

[ 29 |

oo ee Ae OL) oy ae

Louisa Blair, of Lexington, who survives with the fol-
lowing children: Colonel William D. A. Anderson,
U. S. Army, of Mobile, Ala.; Mrs. Ruth A: McCul-
lough, wife of Dr. Charles McCullough, of Lexington,
and Misses Judith N. Anderson and Ellen G. Anderson,
of Lexington. Another daughter, Mrs. Anna A. Mc-
Nulty, of Roanoke, died several years ago.

The following editorial appeared in the Richmond
Times-Dispatch the morning after Mr. Anderson's
death:

There was about Major William A. Anderson al-
ways a touch of the heroic. He reminded one of a
Roman senator bidding defiance in splendid voice to all
the hordes of barbarians that beset the seat of ancient
culture. His facial appearance was that of a strong
man, accustomed to give commands and be obeyed. He
carried with him through life an ever-present and pain-
ful reminder of the day he met the enctities of his State
at First Manassas. The limp, known to two genera-
tions of his people in Virginia, earned him the sobri-
quet of “Lame Lion of the Confederacy.” It completed
the heroic ensemble.

The major all his life was a fighting man. He be-
gan at the age of 18 when he went out to meet the ad-
vancing Federal troops. He continued the role
through the dark days of reconstruction. In the reign
of terror which followed the War Between the States
he was never hesitant to lift up his voice against the
iniquities practiced by the persecutors of Virginia. ‘To
his dying moment he was militant in behalf of those
things he thought were right and in the best interests
of his people.

Major Anderson was a distinguished lawyer. Had
he chosen to remain exclusively in the legal field he
might have amassed a great fortune and his fame might
have spread throughout the country. But the qualities
of patriotism and heroism which distinguished him
from the first ruled his being. Any selfish motives he
entertained were quickly repressed. His services al-
ways were at the behest of his people. And whether he
served in the House of Delegates, the State Senate, the
Constitutional Convention or in the office of Attorney-
General his conduct was that of an able, fearless and
wholly patriotic public man.

The death yesterday of Major Anderson removes
one of the most impressive figures in contemporary
Virginia life. He was the most conspicuous of a choice
group of aging men who brought from another era in-
to our times a grace of manner, a chivalry of spirit and
a stoutness of heart known and admired throughout the
civilized world. Perhaps Major Anderson was more
typical than any Virginian now living of those Virgin-
ians who went through the fiery furnace of the War
Between the States and the ensuing horrors of recon-
struction. Not that he was more loyal or more cour-

I

eA a OAK CZ Eee

ageous than the others. His uniqueness lay in the en-
tire get-up of the man—his appearance, his willingness
to sacrifice his own personal fortunes for the public
good, his intense activity under the handicap of a wound
which must have pained him from the day it was suf-
fered at the first battle of Manassas.

Virginia has lost an able and devoted son. The
ties which bind us to a heroic past are becoming fewer
and fewer. When all the Major Andersons will have
passed to their reward, the greatest source of inspira-
tion this generation knows will have been closed for-
ever.

 

°

DEATH TAKES ERNEST STEVES

In the death of Ernest Steves, pioneer citizen,
lumberman and banker of San Antonio, Texas, Wash-
ington and Lee has sustained the loss of an enthusias-
tic alumnus and friend to the University. Mr. Steves
died ina San Antonio hospital May 14th, following an
operation for appendicitis.

Mr. Steves was a bachelor and lived with his moth-
er, Mrs. Johanna Steves, now 90 years old. He was
born on a little farm near San Antonio, and lived all
his life in that vicinity, witnessing the development of
the city from a frontier cow-town and army post to its
present growth. His father opened the first lumber
business in San Antonio 60 years ago and Ernest
Steves received his early business training there. At
his death he was junior partner in Ed Steves & Sons,
the original business founded by his father, and now
one of the foremost lumbering organizations in the
Southwest.

Quoting from an editorial from a San Antonio
daily :

“Only the most sturdily, faithfully public-spirited
citizen would have attempted, and could have carried
through, the number and the nature of the city-rearing
tasks which marked Ernest Steves’ career. And not
alone for his leadership in many works of civic, econo-
mic and cultural betterment through al! these years,
but also for the hearty friendliness, the kindliness, the
charitableness which distinguished his relationship with
his fellows, will San Antonians remember him with
mingled sentiments of liking and gratitude.”

The Steves family has been faithful to Washing-
ton and Lee for three generations; Albert Steves
(brother of Ernest Steves) having attended the Uni-
versity from 1875 to 1878; his two sons, Albert, Jr.,
graduating in 1906, and Walter, 1913; Albert Steves.
III, graduating with the class of 1930, and another son
of Albert, Sam now a Junior in the University, with
three more younger brothers, now in preparatory
schools, to follow.

[ 30 ]

= 7 & mn 4y ay Oo NN

SOO

DR. WILLIAM T. THOM PASSES

Dr. William Taylor Thom, a devoted and beloved
alumnus of Washington and Lee University, class of
1870, with which and with Lexington throughout his
life he kept up cordial and pleasant relations, died July
12th at Princeton, N. J., at the age of eighty-one years.
A few years ago he retired from active life and since
that time he has been making his home at Princeton,
where his son, William Taylor Thom, Jr., is living, a
member of the faculty of Princeton university.

Dr. Thom was one of the few surviving students
of Washington College under the administration of
General Robert FE. Lee. He was graduated at the col-
lege the June previous to the death of General Lee,
with high standing. He was a Virginian, a native of
Richmond, and made his home at Lexington with his
cousin, one of the most charming men of his genera-
tion in this community, Colonel John D. H. Ross.

Dr. Thom’s early years were devoted to teaching
at Richmond College and at Hollins Institute. IFfrom
1901 to 1922 he was a member of the editorial staff of
the U. S. Geological Survey. He was an author of
talent, leaving behind several publications of interest
on Shakespeare, a Virginia historical work, published
as one of the John Hopkins historical studies on
“Struggles for Religious Freedom in Virginia” and
edited a popular work on General Lee covering “Re-
collections and Letters of General Robert E. Lee.”

Karly in this century he was particularly active in
the organization of the Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., organized to promote the welfare of his Alma
mater, and of which organization he was for some years
In addition to his son, Dr. Thom is sur-
He was buried in the ceme-

secretary.
vived by four daughters.
tery at Hollins College.

 

sy
VV

JUDGE WALTER E. McDOUGLE DIES

Walter EK. McDougle, 62, judge of the circuit
courts of Wood and Wirt counties, West Virginia, died
at his home in Parkersburg, West Virginia, June 15th.

He obtained his early education in the rural schoo!s
of West Virginia, entered the Tri-State collece at An-
gola, Indiana, from which he received his degree of
Bachelor of Commercial Science, preparatory to a legal
education at Washington and Lee. He received his
Bachelor of Laws degree from Washington and Lee in
June, 1891, and in the same year was admitted to the
practice of law in West Virginia.

[le was elected prosecuting attorney of Wood
county at the age of twenty-four. In 1912 he was
elected Judge of the Fourth Judicial Circuit of West
Virginia, consisting of Wood and Wirt Counties. Fol-
lowing his eight year term as Circuit Judge, Judge Mc-
Dougle entered private practice with his son Robert B.
McDougle. He was also referee in Bankruptcy for

J

an! Gh UA UE. UPC ee

the counties of Wood, Wirt, Tyler and Pleasants, which
position he held until a few days before his death, when
he resigned owing to ill health and his son was appoint-
ed in his stead. Judge McDougle’s son and partner
Robert B. McDougle is also an A. B. and an LL.B. of
Washington and Lee, 1917.

fy
VW

STUDENT PASTOR DROWNS

Washington and Lee sustained a loss in the un-
timely death of the Rev. C. Frank Hoffman, student
pastor of a year. Mr. Hoffman was drowned in North
River while bathing after dark with a student friend.
No one knows the exact cause of his death; he preced-
ed the student, Mr. Gilmore, into the water and must
have sunk immediately without a warning cry. Gilmore,
unable to locate his companion, dived repeatedly with-
out success, and finally went for aid. A rescue party
composed largely of students soon located the body.
Death by heart failure was the verdict of doctors.

Mr. Hoffman, besides leading discussion groups
and helping students with their religious problems, was
the assistant pastor to Dr. J. J. Murray at the First
Presbyterian church. He was loved by all, and his
death is felt to be a blow both to the college and to the
town. Mr. Hoffman had planned to take advanced work
at the University next year. He was unmarried, 29
years old, a graduate of Hampden Sidney, 1926, and of
Union Theological Seminary, 1929.

LY.
a

CAR SMASH FATAL

Another automobile tragedy, in which a Washing-
ton and Lee student was the victim, occurred at 4 p. m.
June 5th, when Charles Wine Key, aged 20, was killed
as the car he was driving crashed into a truck about
half a mile outside of Blacksburg on the Newport road.
Key, who was a Buena Vista boy, and a transfer to
Washington and Lee from V. P. L., was going to the
V. P. I. finals when the fatal accident took place.

 

ACCiDENT FATAL

J. Richard Gill, ’20, Manager C. & P. Telephone
Co., at Portsmouth, Va., died March 8th, from the re-

sult of injuries received in an automobile accident on
March 2nd.

 

sy
Vv

DOCTOR GRASTY DIES

Dr. John Sharshall Grasty, ‘04, died June 5, 1930,
following an operation at the University Hospital,
Charlottesville, Va.

ty
Vv

Frank P. Webster, LL.B., ’13, is practicing law
in San [rancisco, California,

[ 31 ]

ae eee i L- Aa

[

Me AT Ghok? Ze Nees

 

LEE THE ENGINEER

“Ol’ Man River” went on a rampage in 1837, tore
and growled his way to the Gulf, wore down his banks
and threatened the city of St. Louis.

This looming calamity led to the first great public
Robert E. the
commander, then a young lieutenant of engineers just

service of Lee, famous Confederate
out of West Point, and to the opening of the Upper
Mississippi River to navigation.
The following is reprinted from Minneapolis,
quarterly magazine published by the Minneapolis Civic

and Commerce Association:

 

Liktutr. Roperr KE.

Alarmed, the people of the St. Louis section ap-
pealed to Congress for aid. General Winfield Scott,
commander of the United States army, was urgently
requested to give what help he could. He responded
promptly and despite the seriousness of the task said
he knew of but one man in the army who could rise to
the situation and that was Brevet Captain Lee.

“He is young,” General Scott wrote his petition-
ers, “but if the work can be done he can do it.”

With the vigorous and unremitting toil which
marked his work all bis life, the young army officer
who was to occupy so prominent a place in the history
of America later, went to work. Thomas Nelson
Page in his Robert E. Lee says:

“The city government, it is said, impatient at the
young engineer’s methodical way, withdrew the appro-
priation for the work; but he went on quietly with the
comment, ‘They can do as they like with their own, but

I was sent here to do a certain work, and I shall do it.’
Feeling in the city ran high, riots broke out, and it is
said that cannon were placed in position to fire on his
working force; but he kept calmly on to the end. The
work he wrought there stands today—the bulwark of
a great city.”

Congress then ordered a survey of the Upper Riv-
er in order to determine methods of insuring navigation
on the Upper Mississippi and to this task, which still
seems to fill the front pages of our newspapers today,
the young officer, Robert FE. Lee, addressed himself.
He made his final report to General C. Gratiot, chief of
army engineers, on December 6, 1837.

“The only serious obstacles to the navigation of
the Mississippi from the mouth of the Ohio to the Falls
of St. Anthony,” reads Lieutenant Lee’s report, ‘a dis-
tance of about 1,200 miles, are the Des Moines and
Rock river rapids: and as these, in my opinion, form
the first objects of attention, surveys have been made
of each the result of which, with my views as to the
best mode for their improvement, will be stated under
each head.”

lee recommended the clearing away of the shal-
low reefs of the rapids as he reports the pools between
the rocky barriers were of sufficient draft to permit
navigation. His report naturally goes into the minute
engineering details and is accompanied by three inter-
esting maps prepared under his direction.

Thomas Nelson Page must receive the credit for
making the mention of Lee’s work which has led to
bringing into light the old and famous report of the
Upper River work, recommendations and prophesies
of the Northwest's future. Page wrote:

‘His (Lee’s) service in 1837 in surveying the Up-
per Mississippi and opening it so as to render it navi-
gable is not generally known; yet it provided a clear
waterway for the great region of the Northwest, and
opened it for the immigration whiclr has since made it
one of the most important sections of the country. And
L.ee’s recommendations led to the great conception of
the present system of improvement of internal water-
ways, and his method was the forerunner of the Eads
system of jetties, by which the Mississippi River has
been preserved as the midland waterways of the na-
tion.”

os

Dean W. H. Moreland, of Washington and Lee’s
law School, lectured this summer at the University of
North Carolina.
first term only, June 17th to July 27th.

Dean Moreland taught during the
His subject
was Procedure.
O ——
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S.
guests during commencement week, Mr. Arthur Glas-

Glasgow, had as their

gow, of London, Eng., who received an honorary de-
gree at Washington and Lee.
ther of Miss Ellen Glasgow, the noveiist.

Mr. Glasgow is a bro-

| 52 |

 

 

= tf &£ A D> es ee N

I

MmoA G A Z f.. s

 

LAW CLASS OF 711 UNITES

The law class of 1911 of Washington and Lee
(Jniversity held its fourth reunion at fina!s this year.
Out of forty-three members, five have died and sixteen
were in lexington at the reunion. One of these, S. B.
Schein, came the 1,200 miles Wis.,

where he is judge ot the superior court, to be with his

from Madison,

classmates.

The class now numbers four judges among its
Judge Herbert S. Grezory, of the supreme
court of appeals of Virginia; Judge W.  F. Blanton,
county judge of Dade county, Fla., Judge W. L. Free-

land, of the eleventh judicial circuit of Florida; and

members :

Judge Schein. It was rumored that another member
had just received a judicial appointment, but this could
not be confirmed.

An enviable and unique record for class organi-
zation and loyalty is held by this class. Since its or-
ganization in 1911, for nineteen consecutive years, it
has issued, through its secretary, a class annual, in
printed phamplet form, containing letters written by
the members which give fellow-members information
of their activities and events of interest taking place
past year. [our secretaries, Luther G.
Kaylor, N. D. Smithson and J. Nevin

Kilmer, have seen that this publication was issued.

during the
Scott, Omer Ts

As another exampie to other classes, the boys
of 1911 present at their business meeting on Mon-
day afternoon in Tucker Hall, subscribed en masse for
the Alumni Magazine and will take steps to induce
Bb. P. Ainsworth,
of Lexington, Va., was elected president, and John F.

every member of the class to do so.

Brown, of Elkins, W. Va., secretary for the next five
years.

The class banquet in connection with the reunion
was held at the Dutch Inn at 7:30 Monday evening,
w.th twenty-five members and their wives present, and
with Dean W. H. Moreland as guest of honor. Retir-
ing President Omer T. Kaylor, of Hagerstown, Md.,
presided and short talks were made by Dean Moreland,
retiring secretary Kilmer, Judge Schein, and the newly
elected president and secretary.

Members present at the reunion were B. P. Ains-
worth and John L. Campbell, both of Lexington, Va. ;
John F. Brown, Elkins, W. Va.; G.W. Chaney, W. S.
Kngleby, Herbert B. Gregory, J. C. Moomaw and R. M.
Winborne, of Roanoke, Va.; Ben Harvey, Clifton
Forge, Va.; Omer T. Kaylor, Hagerstown, Md.; J.
Nevin Kilmer, Martinsburg, W. Va.; C. P. Light,
Chicago, Ill.: R. J. B. Page and H. A. Sacks, Norfolk,
Va.; S. B. Schein, Madison, Wis.; L. G. Scott, Blue-
feld, W. Va.

he next session will be at 1935 fina's.

 

——0O

Dr. James S. Moffatt, Jr., is visiting at Due West,
ac.

CAMPUS ROAD NEARS COMPLETION

Work is well under way on changine the location
of and widening the roadway through the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. The plan for the change in the
road was authorized.at a meeting of the board of trus-
tes some months ago. It is contemplated to shut off
the road which now enters through the memorial gate-
way at a point about the head of the present parking
space and take the travel off of the road behind Lee
cuapel, at the same time getting rid of a bal curve.

The new road on which work is now going for-
ward will enter the grounds opposite the Beta Theta
Pi traternity house at a point about midway between
[t will fol-
low a comparatively straight line to the top of the hill

the memorial gateway and the Blue hotel.
into the present road. A fairly good grade is provid-
ed and a fill was made along the low portion several
months ago with dirt taken from the foundations of
the new fraternity houses nearby. Several trees are
being taken out, but comparatively few of the trees will
be interferred with. ‘The road is being widened at the
curve in front of the res:tence of Dean Harry D.
Campbell. At this point an old locust tree will come
out and the curve will be made more gradual. A heavy
sustaining rock wall is now being built from a point
around it and down the hill. A

similar wall, but a much lower one, will be built along

north of the curve
the upper side of the road.

When the work is completed cars entering through
the memorial gateway will go in only for the purpose of
parking, and will not be able to proceed through the
campus in the rear of the chapel.

 

CAPTAIN BLEDSOE

FOOTBALL

[ 33 ]

Bt ee A Looe om. J

me 3 OG oR. 228 UC cree

 

THE CLASS OF 1869

Twenty-two members of the Class of 1869 at
Washington and Lee are known to be living. Scattered
over many of the Southern States, they are practicing
theories and ideals gained at theim Alma Mater. Per-
haps others than the twenty-three are living, but Uni-
versity records do not show their whereabouts. Fol-
lowing are tose whose addresses are now on record:

Dunean Campbell Lyle, 3 East Read St., Balti-
more, Md.

John Peyton Hobson, Frankfort, Ky.

Dr. Frank Taliaferro, Carlisle, Ohio.

B. F. Alston, Box 479, Charleston, S. C.

Jesse Batts, Hawksville, Ga.

Ashley M. Bell, Monticello, Ark.

Hardy Bb.
Tenn.

W. Edwin Cater, RFD 2,
Samuel R. Cleage, Athens, Tenn.

Branner, 1724 Magnolia, Knoxville,

30x 61, Pensacola, Fla.

Samuel H. Crosland, Mayfield, Ky.

Channing Delaplane, Delaplane, Va.

J. Wm. Lockett, 1776, Mass. Ave., N. W. Wash-
ington, D. C.

George A. Mahan, Nat.
Mo.

Dannitte H. Mays, Monticello, Fla.

John R. Montgomery, RFD. 2, Lexington, Va.

Dr. John B. Smith, San Antonio, Texas.

Dr. John Dawson Smith, 115 Oakenwood St.,
Staunton, Va.

William G. Taylor, Jr., Morristown, Tenn.

Horace W. Tomlin, Jackson, Tenn.

Hon. Stafford G. Whittle, Martinsville, Va.

William Wilkins, Eastville Station, Va.

Edward W. Williams, 1909 Laurel St., Pine Blufi
Ark.

Jank Bldg., Hannibal,

The following are unlocated and it is not known
whether they are dead or alive. Last address is given:
Stevenson Archer, Cumberland, Md., R. Baxter Fish-
burne, Leesburg, Va.; Richard C. Green, Lake Provi-
dence, La.; Moses B. Linton, Ancilla, Ga.; William H.
McDaniel, Atlanta, Ga.; J. Graham Sloan, Brenham,
Texas; John F. Swayne, Ft. Worth, Texas; Edward H.
Stelle, Washington, D. C.; Joseph A. Stewart, Con-
vers, Ga.; Francis C. Welch, Gloucester St., Boston.
Mass.; Thomas H. Wallace, Garrettsburg, Ky.; Guy
M. Whitten, Bristol, Tenn.

As Professor [lard goes to the University of
Missouri this fall, the academic publicity next year will
be handled by Prof. William L. Mapel, assisted by Mr.
Richard P. Carter, formerly of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch and of the class of 1929.

[ 34

—

NEPHEW WRITES RUFF

Rev. William W. Ruff, of the Presbvterian
church, who is now living in retirement in the suburbs
of lexington, was cheered a few days ago by a letter
he received from his nephew, Dr. F. hk. Ruif, 'O9, of
Fresno, Calif. His nephew described it as a ten-year
letter, that is a letter once in ten years, which he is
writing to his uncle, and tells of his life experiences
which have been very interesting and successful. Dr.
Ruff, of Rockbridge parentage, came near being a
Rockbridge native. He is a son of Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel T. Ruff, who more than a generation ago made
their home on the Ruff lands south of town. They
then removed to Bedford county, the original home of
Mrs. Ruff, where their son, Frank R. Ruff, was born
nearly forty years ago. His parents survive at a ripe
old age in Bedford. Dr. Ruff studied at Washington
and Lee, was graduated in medicine in Richmond and
later specialized in medicine at Johns Hopkins and Cor-
nel universities as his letter to his uncle recites. He
relates that he practiced medicine in North Carolina
and early entered the country’s service as surgeon at
the outbreak of the World War and served with the
marines whose gallentry in that war is an_ oft-told
For five years after the war he held positions
in hospital service of the government at Washington
city and in Carolina. He is now in charge oi the X-
ray and radium section of a large hospital at I*resno,
Calif. He is a very enthusiastic citizen of Calttornia.

story.

iy
a

MORTON—CAMPBELL

Miss Frances Wilson Campbell, daughter of Mr.
Malcolm D. Campbell, of Lexington, and Rey. William
\V. Morton, professor of philosophy at Washington and
lee University, were quietly married yesterday at noon
at Birchland, News Ferry, Halifax county, Va., the
home of Miss Campbell's grandparents. Her grand-
father, Rev. Thornton S. Wilson, performed the cere-
mony. Only members of the immediate family were
present, Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm D. Campbell, Malcolm
LD). Campbell, Jr., Alexander Campbell and Thornton
Campbell going from Lexington. Mr. Morton's moth-
er, Mrs. J. Will Morton, of Oxford, N. C., and sister,
Miss Josephine Morton, of Richmond, were also present

Miss Campbell is a graduate of Flora McDonald
college, N. C., and is most popular in Lexington. Mr.
Morton came to Lexington five years ago from Wil-
mington, N. C., with Dr. James J. Murray as assistant
pastor of Lexington Presbyterian church, later enter-
ing the Washington and Lee faculty. He attended
Davidson college and Union Theological seminary.

Mr. and Mrs. Morton will go to Mountain Lake
for two weeks and will sail for Europe about July 18,
returning to Lexington Sept. 15.

 

 

-

—

I

mom. &@ AS 2 ee

Myers Tells of Climbing Mt. Fuji

Dr. Harry W. Myers '94, a native of Lexington,
and a Presbyterian missionary to Japan of long and
distinguished service and much usefulness, published
‘1 “The Osaka Mainichi and The Tokyo Nichi Nichi,
Osaka Japan,” a paper published in English of Jan. 24,
a graphic story of the chmbing by him of Mt. Fuji
‘in winter. He writes of climbing a mountain several
times higher than any we are familiar with here, and
it is felt that this graphic story of mountain climbing
will be read with interest by his fellow alumni.

| have always maintained that Fuji was an old wo-
man of a mountain; very pretty to look at, but not much
that is thrilling about her. I have climbed Mt. Fuji
seven times, and have seen her in all her varying moods.
When in an ugly temper, no old woman in the world
could be more disagreeable. In fact, unless she is in a
sunny, placid mood, one had better leave her severely
alone.

Yes, Mt. Fuji is an old woman of a mountain. l’uji
is 12,365 feet high. In summer one does not climb
Fuji. It is simply a long, long walk up-hill, followed
by a swift run, eight feet at a step, through the deep
cinders back to the bottom. ‘That is not climbing at
all.

But Mt. Fuji in winter—ah, that is something dif-
ferent! There is an unearthly beauty about its robe
of snow, extending down in graceful folds from the
summit to the foot-hills far below. When the first rays
of the morning sun touch the mountain with their rosy
glow, it seems to be an etherial cloud of glory floating
high above the sombre earth below.

During the month of July and August 50,000 pil-
grims climb Mt. Fuji every year. Men and women,
old and young, rich and poor, princes and coolies,
throng the paths and crowd the rest huts to suffoca-
tion.

Nowhere else can one see such a cross-section of
Japanese society as on the sides of Mt. Fuji in sum-
mer. From the first of September the crowds rapidly
dwindle, the huts are closed, and the mountain is left
in its lonely grandeur till the next summer. The early
snows sometimes fall before the end of August, and by
the end of September it has donned its winter garb of
beauty.

Three of us met at the Osaka hotel, in Joshida on
the northern side of the mountain. We found Ike-
tani, the proprietor of the fifth hut, who was ready to
accompany us and provide us a place to sleep half way
up the mountain. A diminutive carrier took a load of
bedding as large himself and we all five piled into a
Chevrolet car and rattled and bumped over ruts and
mudholes as far as Uma-gaeshi, beyond which, in for-

mer times, women and horses were not allowed to go.

We started the climb at 10:45, in clear air and
bright sunshine, and no wind at ail. From the second
hut on we climbed through the snow, which became
deeper and deeper as we ascended. Almost everywhere
the snow was frozen hard, with a light coating of soft
snow in which we saw great numbers of pheasant and
rabbit tracks.

When the snow blows this coating of soft snow
fills the air with “snow-smoke,” as they call it, which
almost cuts the skin off one’s face if unprotected
With the sharp crampons on our shoes, the climbing
was really easier than through the soft cinders in sum-
mer, and we found ourselves at the fifth hut by 1:30
in the afternoon, with a superabundance of energy and
tume on our hands.

So leaving our packs in the hut, we set out on a
tour of exploration to a picturesque little temple called
Kwomidake, a mile and a half around the mountain.
Irom this point the view of the Southern, Central and
Northern Japanese Alps was magnificent.

Mt. Asama, eighty miles north, could be recog-
nized by its shape and the column of smoke rising from
its crater, In the immediate foreground the jagged
white saw teeth of Yatsuga-take were conspicuous ; and
the snowy peaks and ranges extended on to the north-
ern horizon.

Returning to the hut, we found a_ roaring fire
awaiting us, and Iketani had some good hot rice and
clam soup to add to our supplies for supper. ‘The bed-
ding was new and clean, without one flea to bother us,
so we had a wonderful night's rest, with all in bed and
asleep by half past five. After a good night’s rest we
waked and started to get up, but found that it was
only 10:30, and we were not due to get up till three.
We got another hot meal at 3:30, and were on the road
an hour later. The moon shining on the snow made
the path as bright as day .

Far below us we could see the electric lights of
Yoshida; and the stars were shining with a beauty and
brilliancy unknown on lower levels. I counted eleven
stars visible in the Pleiades, and Venus looked like
some great lighthouse as it rose in the east.

Even in the fifth hut the cold was so intense that
with a roaring fire at one end of the hut, a bucket of
water at the other end froze solid.

Walking over the hard surface of the snow great
care had to be taken to avoid slipping, and with each
step we would stamp hard with the spikes on our shoes,
and at the same time hold our ice axes ready to dig in-
to the surface in case of a fall.

We lost about an hour when one of the party

[ 35 ]

z fk A b UVa ta

dropped his camera off his belt. Not improbably it
slid a half mile before it stopped. At any rate, we
never saw it again.

We reached. the eighth hut at 10:30 and stopped
for lunch. ‘The combination of intense cold and stren-
uous exercise developed in us ravenous appetites, and
we wanted a meal every two or three hours. We leit
our packs at the eighth hut, as the road from that point
to the top was quite steep and rather difficult, with
much snow and ice.

All morning we had enjoyed the rather unusual
stillness, but as we neared the top the wind rose, and
at the top was blowing a gale. We were all wearing
goggles to protect our eyes, and stocking caps to cover
our face as far as possible, but even so the “snow-
smoke” stung the exposed part of our faces so that the
ski peeled oif later.

I had. expected to find the old landmarks at the
top hidden by the snow, but the perpendicular rock
faces stood out in familiar contour, with little differ-
ence except that the level surfaces were white, and the
altitude increased by two or three feet. With the cut-
ting, bitter wind that threatened to lift us bodily off our
feet, fifteen minutes was long enough to spend on top.
We tried to get a half dozen photographs before start-
ing down. But on account of the snow and the coid
the camera shutter failed to work, so all but one of the
pictures taken on top were complete iailures.

It was with a feeling of decided relief that we
slipped over the edge of snow, not a bit the worse for
my wild slide of some fifty yards. The tummy slide
is a wonderful sport, but it has its limitations.

From the eighth hut down, we took the Subash-
iri path, and on the gentler slope we traveled in a long,
swinging walk that brought us to the bottom at a speed
that was surprising. Getting out of the snow, we
swung along mile after mile through the scrubby forest,
ten weary miles of steady descent to the village of
Subashiri, from which automobiles were available back
to the railroad at Gotemba.

IT’S DR. McCDERMOTT NOW

The degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
the Hon. Charles J. MeDermottjmember of the Wash-
ington and. Lee Board of’ Trustees, by St. Lawrence
University June 12th. Judge McDermott, New York
lawyer, was recognized by the Canton, N. Y., school
for his outstanding work in his profession.

In conferring the degree, Richard E. Sykes, presi-
dent of the school, said, “The University feels that in
thus honoring you she is also honoring herself.”

The degree was conferred at commencement ex-
ercises held in the Albee Theatre, Brooklyn.

I

MwA CG A Zt Oe

—

1930 CALYX BEAUTIFUL

The Calyx for 1930 is in many ways one of the ~
most beautiful books seen here in some time, the for-
mat and opening pages being especially attractive. There —
is a deep red leather cover carrying a coat of arms, and
the opening pages are done in original fashion to re-
present the history of old Virginia. With a few wed
chosen wood cuts of swashbuckling cavaliers and the
imitated style of old-fashioned printing, it is remark-
able to see the effect created. Throughout the volume,
which is some three hundred fifty pages and more, pen
and ink sketches by Marion Junkin, editor of the 1926
Calyx, enhance the beauty of the present book.

The historical aspect of the book is also given by
nine sonnets of the Shakespearean form written by the
poet-editor, T. J. Sugrue, M. A., 1930. These sonnets
are interspersed at intervals throughout the book and
form a sequence, being connected in thought and deal-
ing with the growth of the nations ideals. An histori-
cal sketch in color accompanies each sonnet. Sugrue
has peppered the publication with shorter poems, all of
a high order of merit.

The dedication is to the memory of two students
killed last year around finals in an automobile accident :
Irving Hewitt Elias and William Allen Plummer, both
men of more than average ability. ‘There is also a
page of In Memoriam to former Professor Riley, to
Hug’ Bell Sproul, former trustee, and to two students
—J. W. Watson and J. S. Harper.

The views of the campus, done on pebbled paper,
are unusually fine. It’s a Calyx worth owning.

 

sy
Ww

ORATORS SUCCESSFUL

Washington and Lee has been taking honors in
oratory this winter. William W. Venable. of Norfolk,
an intermediate student in the law school, won consid-
erable recognition for his part in the nation-wide ora-
torical contest which cu.minates in the competition of
seven zone representatives of the entire nation at [,os
Angeles, June 18th. Venable became the state repre-
sentative, and went to Asheville, N. C., this spring to
display his wares. He narrowly missed first place
there as a zone representative. All orations were up-
on some phase of the Constitution.

Walter H. Jennings, representing Washington and
Lee, won the gold medal as prize orator in the conte>t
held at Lynchburg this spring to determine who was
best in the Virginia State inter-collegiate oratorical
contest. Jennings’ winning speech was entitled ‘Causes
and their Champions.”

4)
Vv

Professor and Mrs. Arthur U. Moore, have left
l.exington for the summer. Professor Moore will at-
tend summer school at Cornell University, Ithaca, N.
Y., and Mrs. Moore will visit her old home in Erie,

Pa.

[ 36 ]

 

men GCG A: 2 See ee

 

PH EF A 2 8a. WN
is

HESTER ADVISES SENIORS

Little Rock, Ark., June 11,

WINC
1930.

Feditor,
Washingt mn and Lec

My DEAR SIR:
ft occurred to me the enclosed article mig'tt be

» Alumni Magazine,

helpful to some of the Under-graduates of my Alma
their

1

they enter upon the duties of senior

Mater as
work. It was true In my own experience, both objec-
tively and subjectively in my College life.

With all good wishes I am very sincere'y yours,

JAMES A. WINCHESTER.

With the whole body of Alumni I rejoice that Dr.
Francis P. Gaines has accepted the Presidency of
Washington and Lee University, thus linking his name

with the line of illustrious Presidents of our beloved
Alma Mater. We feel assured that God’s blessing

will rest upon his labors, as it has rested upon all of his
distinguished predecessors.

It is my privilege to say a word to the under-grad-
uates of 1930 and 1931.

classman exerts

unconscious 1n-
the
at Washington

‘There is an

flmence a senior over freshman.
There were two men from Memphis
College during my first year in 1869-’70, who influenced
my course of study and helped to give trend to my post-
graduate career. They were altogether unconscious of
it.
as ‘‘Parson,” and the other was George B. Peters. Al-

One was Alston Boyd, known among the students

ston Boyd received the Debaters Medal at the end of
the session of 1869-’70 in the Washington Literary So-
ciety and graduated with B. A. George B. Peters got
the Debaters Medal in the Graham Society, the previous
year, and was Valedictorian when in 1870 he also re-
ceived his B. A. degree.
gentlemen of “The Old School,” esteemed by profes-
The Valedictory of Peters

‘These two men were refined

sors and students alike.
still lingers in my memory, as he climbed the heights
had the

pleasure, years later in Memphis, to tell him how he had

of metaphysical and classical oratory. |
influenced me as a young student and that his farewell
had lived with me. Not long after that conversation
he was called to his reward, having been one of the
honored members of the Memphis Bar.

When Alston Boyd was awarded his well earned
degree I determined, God being my helper, that I would
strive to make my college course like his had been. And
sO it became my lot, when graduating to take the same
honors that Boyd had gotten, and in addition to receive
“The University Prize Essay” and Bachelor of Philos-
ophy. Alston Boyd set the standard before me, and
my own work gave the result. It was a gratification
to the Boyd family to know of his wonderful influence
upon my life.

As a student Boyd met the splendid ideals General
l.ee had placed before him in Washington College, and

| tried conscientiously to go in his well marked way. I

|

,~

2
‘ers

thank God those ideals have never left our revered
University, and that all succeeding Presidents have con-
tinued to make real in the lives of the students those
principles of honor that fit them for their vocations. It
is an intense joy, in these days of shifting conditions,
to know that our Alma Mater has maintained the high
standards bequeathed by the greatest Hero of Ameri-
can History, Robert Edward Lee.

aa

BEGINS TWENTY-FIRST YEAR

With the beginning of school in September Dean
De la Warr Benjamin Easter will start his twenty-first
vear as a member of the Washington and Lee faculty.
Dean Easter came to W. and L. in 1910. In 1920 he
was named assistant dean of the University, which po-
sition he has held since in addition to his duties as head
of the Romance Language Department.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— -——--— -

Dean Easter is a familiar figure on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. He occupies the home nearest
the administration building.
ture does not do the popular Dean justice for it omits
his most cherished inanimate companion, his Dunhill
pipe, and most distinguished piece of wearing apparel,
the felt hat which he may have brought. with him
when he came to Washington and. Lee,

The accompanying pic-

oF A L Ue

|

oe ee ee? ae Ae oe

 

H. B. Hawes Writes Delightful Novel

THE DAUGHTER OF THE BLOOD
(The Four Seas Company, Boston—$2.50)
By Herbert Bouldin Hawes, °95.

Virginia Dare, the first English child born in the
new world, disappeared with the ill-fated Roanoke Is-
land colony. She is a dim figure in history but one
that stirs the imagination.

Herbert Bouldin Hawes, the author, is an LL.B.,
95 of Washington and Lee. He is a nephew of the
late Marion Harland and thus the first cousin of Albert
Payson Terhune.

Thoroughly f-miliar with the chronicles of the
period and the movements of the adventurers who
founded an empire, Mr. Hawes weaves a romance which
holds the interest of the reader throughout its pages.

‘Just one page of history that shall not be writ!”
exclaimed the gallant Rolfe to the illustrious John
Smith, as they stood on the edge of His Majesty’s Col-
ony of James Towne, and watched the curtain of forest
green drop between them and the principal actors in
the heroic drama of the Daughter of the Blood. The
reason for Rolfe’s refusal to divulge the secret has long
since ceased to be, and from the few shreds of fact the
author has reconstructed this charming romance, color-
ful and absorbing both in story and style.

It is impossible, of course, here to set out exten-
sive excerpts from the hundreds of letters which Mr.
Hawes has received concerning this book, but we must
say that the astonishingly wide range of the comments
indicates an appeal to almost every class of readers. “A
corking good story, that holds the interest from begin-
ning to end,” writes a New York business man. “A
literary production of enduring merit,” writes a learned
Southern lawyer. “If merit receives its just reward,”
writes another, “this book should give your name a per-
manent place in American Literature.” .\ number of
readers havee been reminded of Cooper, and others of
Scott, Mary Johnston, and Thomas Dixon. And our
own Dr. William Reynolds Vance, 92, presently of the
Yale Law School, characterizes the book as “A work
of thrilling interest, characterized by a very high order
of imagination and illuminated by numerous feats of
really brilliant writing.”

“There is nothing of realistic modernism in this
story,” says Robert Franklin, in Richmond News-Lea-
der, “ but many moderns may find in it a dose of high
romance, beneficial as well as charming.”

And so say we! For in THE DAUGHTER OF
THE Boop one finds not only a delightful story for
a summer day, but also a most desirable volume for his
library table or shelves,

Mr. Hawes lives at Spout Spring, Virginia, and
copies of the book may be had from him. And, for
any one who may desire it, Mr. Hawes wishes us to
state that he will be pleased to autograph any copy
ordered from him.

 

sy
Vv

DAVIS ARGUES CASE

Whether an applicant for American citizenship has
the right to “judge of the necessary” if required to
take up arms in defense of this country was argued be-
for the United States circuit court of appeals recently
by John W. Davis.

Davis appeared as counsel for Prof. Douglas Clyde
MacIntosh, professor of theology at Yale and a native
of Canada, who was denied citizenship by Judge War-
ren Burrows in Connecticut when he reserved the
right to judge of the necessity in answer to the usual
question concerning his willingness to bear arms in
case of war.

In arguing for a reversal of the decision, Davis
said his client did not recognize his duty to his country
as superior to his duty to his God and his adherence to
the tenets of Christianity as he understood them.

He quoted MacIntosh as having told the lower
court, “I am willing to do what I judge to be for the
best interests of my country but only insofar as I can
believe that this is not going to be against the best in-
terests of humanity in the long run. I do not undertake
to support ‘my country right or wrong’ in any dispute
that may arise.”

Judge Martin ‘T. Manton, who with Judge Thom-
as W. Swan and Learned Hand, occupied the dais,
questioned Davis concerning his client's attitude toward
the government's right to draft him for duty. Davis
replied that conscientious objectors had been excused
from military duty from the Revolutionary War to the
World War and that it was unjust to demand that
prospective citizens subscribe to an oath to which even
citizens are not held.

The lawyer spoke of the constitutional guarantees
of religious liberty and said the constitution plainly did
not require anyone to set aside his conscientious reli-
gious beliefs and objections to warfare.

The professor is a Baptist minister. He served
as a chaplain in the Canadian and English armies in the

World War.

Professors George J. Irwin and John A. Graham
have left Lexington for an extended motor tour in the
Southwest, expecting to visit Texas and go on into
Mexico.

[ 38 ]

 

1 H E ‘ode woe NS 4

 

TROUBADOURS PLAN FOR 1930-31

he ‘Troubadours, Washington and Lee's dratiatic
organization, will present a musical comedy again next
vear. So successful at home and on the road was
“College Daze,” this year’s production, that the idea
will be repeated in the future.

Several themes for next year’s production have
already been submitted.

Work on bookings for next year's trip has begun
and the prospects for an excellent trip in 1931 are
bright. Due to the splendid reception the Troubadours
at Raleigh and Greensboro, N. C., and Lynchburg, Va.,
this spring, these cities will be on the itinerary for next
year. It is planned to visit several other large towns
further south, also.

“College Daze,” was written, produced, and acted
entirely by students. At all the performances of it,
large atidiences applauded enthusiastically and pro-
claimed it the best Troubadour production in years.
The newspapers were loud in their praise of the good
lines, catching songs, and splendid acting. When it
was given here in Lexington the theatre was filled to
capacity, and the students demanded encores time after
time.

At a meeting in the early part of May, the execu-
tive committee of the Troubadours voted to divide the
organization into two parts, one to produce tiie dramat-
ic plays and the other the musical comedies. his step
was taken because of the marked success of “College
Daze.” At this time B. FE. Haley was elected presi-
dent for next year. ‘Two vice-presidents were named,
one for each division. ‘T. W. Walker was chosen vice-
president of the musical division and G. R. Holden was
elected vice-president of the dramatic division. H. M.
Minniece was chosen business manager.

 

——n()

STUDENT EDITORS GATHER

One hundred and thirty high school journalists
gathered at Washington and Lee May 9th and 10th for
the Fifth Annual convention of the Southern Inter
scholastic Press Association. Seven Southern states
were represented at the convention, sponsored by the
Department of Journalism.

Two days of conference on problems journalistic
ended with an honor banquet in the Washington and
lee dining hall. Twelve cups were awarded winners
in high and preparatory school newspaper, magazine,
and annual contests. -

Next year’s convention will be held 1n the fall to
enable scholastic representatives to return home and
put into practice theories gained at the meeting. The
association will also sponsor next year a quarterly
magazine which will be sent to all member schools.

[ 39

ao Ee A 2 See

MEET PROFESSOR SMITH

 

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, President-Emeritus of the
University, spent ten days early in June lecturing at
Duke University. According to a letter sent to FE. S.
Mattingly, Washington and Lee registrar, Dr. Smith
experienced “a whirlwind of rather novel and absorbing
conferences with hundreds of preachers in their sum-

mer school for pastors.”

SONS OF ALUMNI GRADUATE

Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., "06, of San Antonio, Tex.,
whose son, Albert Steves, I11, was a member of the
graduating class at Washington and Lee, were com-
mencement guests in Lexington.

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin P. Bledsoe, 00, of Sykes-
ville, Md., were among those attending Washington
and Lee commencement. Their son, Edwin P. Bled-
soe, Jr., received his degree.

D. Allan Penick, son of Paul M. Penick, "96, treas-
urer of the University, received his LL.B. degree at
commencement.

William Edgar Waddell, son of Trustee, Harring-

ton Waddell, 97, was graduated with the A, B, de-
eree,

= owe OB A 2 ae oe

]

Me. Ae ee ae a

 

Y. M. C. A. DISCONTINUED

The last-several-years have witnessed the-pregresr
sive decline of the influence of the Y. M. C. A. on the
Was'tington and Lee campus. This condition is not
peculiar to Washington and Lee, but is found, on the
campus of most of the educational institutions in the
United States. In a general way, it may be attributed
to the disrepute into which the Y. M. C. A. as an or
ganization fell during the World War and partly to the
spirit of the age. Locally the decline has been accele-
rated by the position taken by several of the past Y. M.
C. A. Secretaries on certain social and political prob-
lems. The result has been to create a feeling of in-
difference on the part of the students and, in some
cases, of open hostility. |

In February, 193), the Student Cabinet tendered
its resignation, and at the same time expressed the be-
lief that a new type of organization should be effected
which would be better adapted to the spir.t of Was'‘-
ington and Lee. ‘The function of the new organization,
as proposed, will be to serve as a channel through which
students may express their religious convictions rather
than attemoting to keep alive a traditional organization
by finding it work todo. The new regime will consider
its main task that of offering aid and support to any
group, large or small, interested in religion, and of
working out any informal organization that this group
may need. It will definitely serve the University by
bringing high quality speakers and musical talent to the
campus; the freshman camp and informal discussion
will be continued. Special emphasis will be place | up-
on vocational guidance and opportunity for worship
will be provided at least twice a week.

Munsey Gleaton, General Secretary of the Y. M.
C. A. will be in charge as the Secretary for Religious
Work.

The change, in reality, includes little more than
the abandonment of a moribund organization in order
that Christian work on the campus may progress and
be entered into whole-heartedly by the student body.

sy &.
0

THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN

The Alumni Magazine is indebted to the Rock-
bridge County News, the Lexington Gazette, the
Washington and Lee Publicity Department, and the
Calyx for much of the material in this issue. The
editor takes this means of thanking these sources for
news matter and halftones.

ty
Vv

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president-elect of Wash-
ington and Lee, was given the degree of doctor of laws
by Furman University at the commencement exercis-
es May 29th. Dr. Gaines also delivered the baccaiau-
reate address at Furman.

NEW BOOK FOR ALUMNI LIBRARY

Galvanomagnetic and Thermomagnetic Effect
The Hall and Allied Phenomena
By L. L. Campbell, M. A., ’87, Ph.D.,’91

This book has recently been presented and con-_

tains the following inscription on its fly-leaf:

“To the Library of the Alumni Club of Washing- 4
In happy memory of my

ton and Lee University.
colleague, William McCutchan Morrison, A. B., D. D.,
who gave his life to Africa. From the Author.

The book is one of a series of Monographs on Phy-
sics published by Longmans, Green & Co.
together various information supporting the application
of the electron theory to the electrical and thermal phe-
nomena in metals. It constitutes an important step to-
wards the reconciliation of theory and facts in regard
to atomic structures and actions.

 

——-- —-—() a

MANY ALUMNI REGISTER

The following are a few of the alumni who were

present during Washington and Lee Finals. These
were registered at alumni headquarters. Fifteen of
the famous law class of 1911 were present:
Wm. C. Baxter, Niagara Falls, N. Y.; D. B. Owen,
Doylesville, Va.; H. D. St. John, East Orange, N. J.;
Claude P. Light, Martinsburg, W. Va.; J. Mein Kil-
mer, Martinsburg, W. Va.; R. J. B. Page, Norfolk,
Va.; Herman A. Sacks, ... orfolk, Va.; Jas. R. Caskie,
Lynchburg, Va.; E. C. Caffrey, East Orange, N. J.;
L.. B. Cchein, Madison, Wis.; Omer 'T. Kaylor, Hag-
erstown, Md.; R. S. Hutcheson, Lexington, Va.; Doz-
ier A. DeVane, Washington, D. C.; W. S. Forrester,
[Louisville, Ky.; C. S. Glasgow, Lexington, Va.; L. J.
Boxly, Roanoke, Va.; R. M. Winborne, Roanoke, Va. ;
Geo. W. Chaney, Roanoke, Va.; L. J. Desha, Lexing-
ton, Va.; Chas. I. Burns, Lynchburg, Va.; S. H. Wil-
liams, Lynchburg, Va.; Stuart Moore, Lexington, Va.;
Thomas J. Farrar, Lexington, Va.; Herbert Gregory,
Roanoke, Va.; R. Granville Campbell, Lexington, Va. ;
Earle K. Paxton, Lexington, Va.; R. N. Latture, Lex-
ington, Va.; J. B. Livesay, Chairyung, Chosen, Japan;
B. N. “Hop” Arbogast, Asheville, N. C.; R. W. Cabell,
Covington, Va.; W. IX. Crigler, Roanoke, Va.; Ben
Henlay, Clifton Forge, Va.; Luther Scott, Bluefield,
W. Va.; Robert P. Cooke, Lexington, Va.; John Clay
Hoover, Webster Springs, W. Va.; W. C. Haythe,
Hinton, W. Va.; David H. Wice, Petersburg, Va.;
James J. Salinger, New York Citv; S. G. White,
Waynesboro, Va.

 

ry
VV

Dozier A. DeVane, ’08, has resigned his position
as General Counsel of the four Chesapeake and Poto-
mac Telephone Companies and has resumed the gen-
eral practice of law, with offices at 743 Investment
Building, Washington, D. C.

[ 40 ]

It brings”

   

a.

 

-

 

mH &£ A ee PA Gre: NY

I

Mara (CG iA ~Z 2d aes

 

———EE_
DEAN CAMPBELL HONORED BY TULANE

Tulane University, New Orleans, honored Dr.
Henry Donald Campbell on June 11 when the honorary

degree of doctor of laws was bestowed on the Washiug-
ton and Le

' P “leat ah tain 2+ > - a 1°
honored by) being selected to deliver the annual Phi

e educator. Doctor Campbell was further
Beta Kappa address at Tulane.

For many years the Washington and [ee dean has
been a leader in educational thought of the South. In
presenting Doctor Campbell for his degree, Dean E. A.
Bechtel of ‘Tulane’s College of Arts and Sciences said:

“It is my great honor to present for the degree of
doctor of laws a distinguished scholar, teacher and ad-
ministrator; an untiring worker for the advancement
of the standards of higher education: especially in the
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the
Southern States, of which he has been and still is an
honored officer; a man who truly represents both
science and culture—Dean Henry Donald Campbell of
Washington and Lee University.”

To this introduction Tulane’s President, Dinwid-
die, added other words of praise in conferring the de-
gree.

Dean Campbell stressed the necessity of including
the study of geology as a cultural subject in univer-

sity curricular in his address to the Phi Beta Kappa
Since returning to Washington
and lee he has received a number of letters of con-

gratulation on the excellence of his address.

chapter of “Tulane.

dovdlicnneiveiienta tenes.
ALUMNI CLASS OF 1930 FORMED

The Alumni Class of 1930 was formed immedi-
ately following commencement this year. After fac-
ulty and visitors had left historic Lee Chapel, the 1930
graduating class, one hundred and thirty strong, formed
an organization with Edward S. Graves of Lynchburg,
Va., president.

Other officers are: ‘Thomas J. Sugrue, Nauga-

tuck, Conn., vice-president ; and Robert W. Davis, Los
Angeles, secretary-treasurer.
The organization was formed to hold the Class of
1930 together. President Graves intends to form
some sort of perpetual organization which will call for
periodical reunions of the class. It is the hope of this
hew Alumni unit to surpass the record of the Law Class
of 1911, which has united at Washington and Lee sev-
eral times since graduation, and which has its own an-
nual publication.

Mr. Graves solicits suggestions from any alumni
Who may have ideas for improving the organization of
the baby chapter of the Alumni Association.

{>
=

_ _. T. (Curly) Saunders, ’27 will open an office
tor the practice of Law in Durham, N. C., some time
during the month of July.

PRESIDENT OF FINALS

 

On the shoulders of Roby Kinzer Sutherland, A.
B., °30, fell the offtimes heartbreaking duties or presi-
dent of Finals. Roby, a resident of Pulaski, Virginia,
acquitted himself well in this difficult task, superintend-
ing preparations for what many Alumni classified as
the outstanding Finals Week in their memory.  Fin-
als dances were all the more successful by the capable
direction of Prof. Carl E. L. Gill in decorations and
the music furnished by popular and celebrated Jan
Garber and his recording orchestra.

Sutherland is a member of the Phi Kappa Psi
social fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma.

This year’s Finals president remained in Lexing-
ton for several days after other students had gone
home. This time was spent in preparing the financial
statement for the social end of Finals Week. In this
he was assisted by Edward S. Graves of Lynchburg,
treasurer of Finals.

A large number of former students and graduates
of the University attended Finals, and from this group
was gathered a score or more who on the night of Sen-
ior Ball formed an Alumni Figure which will be long
remembered for its excellent ingenuity.

tend ete.

GILL LEAVES FACULTY

A letter from Carl Gill, written from Paris, on
June 20th states that he has accepted a position as trade
commissioner to Accra, Gold Coast, West Africa.

Accra is the center of the cocoa district in Africa.
The duties of the position will be to keep the American
importers notified through the Commerce Department
of market movements, crop conditions, etc., and also
to help promote American Trade on the West Coast.

[ 41 ]

Evin: | £ A’ 1 hae ee NN

Mt ase. A 3B

 

PERRY TURNER PROMOTED
\W. the

Power Company for the past thirteen years.

Alabama
Upon the
IK. A. Yates, Vice-President

Perry Turner has been with

and
V ice-

resignation of Mr.
General Manager, he was elected Executive
President on May 1, 1930.

We quote, in part, from an editorial recently ap-
pearing in a Birmingham, Alabama, newspaper refer-
ring to three promotions in the Alabama Power Co.

‘Not yet have successful corporations in the newly
industrialized South contrived to find satisfactory sub-
stitutes for high character and hard work in selecting
their personnel. ...... Mr. Turner, of the legal
department, was born and reared within earshot of
Muscle Shoals. Graduated from Washington and Lee
University, and later from the law department of the
University of Alabama, he promptly took high rank in
the Birmingham bar. Whether as judge of a Birming-
ham police court, or as assistant attorney general of the
state, he was forthright and thorough, courageous and
loyal, ready and resouceful, and he was blessed with
what the late Joseph H. Choate once called “a happy
temper.” His 15 years of uninterrupted service with
the company merits the distinction that is now his.

“In the career of each of these three men success
is not accidental. It is rather the sure result of integ-
rity, of persistent seriousness, of unwaning loyalty and

not unimportantly—of close application and hard
Not one of these three men has been inoculated
by the philosophy of the
South like the Alabama Power Company are not im-

work.

‘set by.” Corporations in

pressed by that philosophy.”

 

ROBINSON MONUMENT

[ 4

>

McELWEE MEMORIAL

The new laboratory of the Jackson Memorial Ho
pital, which was made possible by the gift of Wm. M
McElwee, ’79, as a memorial to the late Mrs. McElwee
and of which Miss Guendolen Howe, daughter of Dr
Jas. Lewis Howe, is technician, is now in operation. T
is located on the second floor of the office building ad
joining the hospital. Most of the equipment nece
sary for ordinary tests is there and Miss Howe expects
soon to have enough for bacteriology and blood chem
istry.

 

-_
~

HELP US FIND THEM

Do you know the address of any of the following
alumni? If so, kindly send it to Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia.

Name

  
  
  
 
 
 
  

Martin M. Shields 1992-0
Robert Mason Curtis 1905-06
John R. Coates 1909-1¢
Wiley F. McGill 1909-1
Max Meadors 1909-1
Claude Madison Ray 1911-1
Robert I. Steele 1911-1
surnley R. Elam 1912-1
Marvin L,. Rogers 1912-1
rank R. Nolley 1913-1
William Taylor Higgins 1914-1
Mayo C. Spearen 1916-1
O. S. Parmer 1916-1
Thomas J. Sterling 1916-1
Charles Wesley Moss 1917-1
David R. Boatwrigtt 1919-

John Raynol Swygert 1920-2
Clarence M. Shelton 1920-2
Thayer Dougles 1920-2
William F. Stephens 1921-22
lindsey L.. Moore 1921-22
Kinard D. Abbott 1921-22
Andrew J. ‘Tingler 1922-2
lawrence Ashcraft 1922-2
Leander Douglas Danforth 1922-2
Joseph B. Gould 1922-2
Albert C. Kelley 1922-2
Sidney Hal Price 1922-2
Harry G. Longshore 1922-2
Robert J. Walters 1923-2
Erwin J. Imhot 1925-26
Wayne L,. Keeley 1925-26
Durward V. McCarty 1926-2

 

Dr. Henry Louis Smith of Greensboro, N. C.
president-emeritus of Washington and Lee, delivereé
the commencement address to graduates of Bridgewate

college.

A 7 AU wa “N

I

_— iA t@AA 2-4 eee

 

Dr. Tunstall’s Add

In acknowledging my appreciation of the invita-
tion which you have so deeply honored me, I find quite
the common For it brought
something more than pleasure, something more than
pride, rather indeed an uplifting of the heart. A slug-
gish soul and a deadened imagination must characterize

phrases of | courtesy.

that Virginian, indeed that American, whose pulse
would not beat a little faster at the thought of visiting
Washington and lee, whose very name, with its im-
perishable memories, is a lamp unto our feet aud a light
unto our path. That name seems, indeed, almost too
goodly a heritage for any one institution; and perhaps
in some distant era, when men shall be as jealous of
fame as of prosperity, you may be assailed as a mono-
poly! But the charge will fail. Some future John W.
Davis or Newton D. Baker will arise to prove that your
deserts match your inheritance, and if the present com-
position of our Supreme Court of Appeals affords an
index of its future, he will plead his cause before a
sympathetic tribunal!

And apart from the associations that will make
your name shine as a beacon down the centuries, one
finds here the sweet serenity that exists only in ancient
foundations, happily sequestered from the rush and din
of a clamorous world. Here, in your grove of Aca-
deme, you march full step with modern thought, and
yet avoid its more strident repercussions. Perhaps
habit and use have dimmed for you this shining privi-
lege; but to your visitor, as he lifts up his eyes to the
hills, there comes a sense of calm into which “not poppy
nor mandragora..... could ever medicine” him amid
more turbulent scenes.

But however happy the speaker who is honored by
your invitation, he must needs take a realistic view of
his audience. There is a peculiar inevitability about
Power and authority once gained are
not readily surrendered; and I sometimes think that
commencement exercises constitute the swan-song of
academic constraint. They afford, in a phrase we law-
yers sometimes use, the “last clear chance” of faculties
and governing boards to chain the free spirit of flaming
youth. I do not know how many commencement ad-
dresses are to be delivered to defenseless audiences
during this pleasant month of June. But the number
must be formidable; and when one realizes that he is
adding to the volume of this oratorical freshet, both
prudence and justice urge him to follow not the prac-
tice but the promise of Polonius: “I will be brief.”

At least I shall not imitate those commencement
speakers who, forgetful that the program already pro-
vides for one baccalaureate sermon, undertake to preach
another. There will be scant sermonizing in what |

these occasions.

ress to Graduates

shall have to say. I shall talk rather of the pleasures
of life than of its duties. Soooner or later you will
have the duties thrust upon you; but many people go
through their lives without knowing much about the
pleasures. Now it is my deep conviction that, in a
properly regimented life, the pleasures and duties are
Generally, indeed, they need not be
apart at all, and this fact underlies all that I shall have
to say to you.

Today, at the entrance to your careers, you are
beginning by far the most important part of your edu-
cation—that which you will give youselves. I hope to
persuade you, if persusasion be needed, that it is not
only a joyous thing in itself, but a condition of happy
living. ‘To me the most ghastly of misconceptions is
evidenced by the phrase that one “received his educa-
tion at college” as though the life-long process of edu-
cation ended with a dipioma. You are starting on the
same road which I have been traveliing some time, and
my only and quite temporary advantage over you is
some little experience of life and affairs. And in say-
ing this | recognize experience merely as an aid, not as
a dependence. It is a thing that comes in time, though
in differing degrees, to all of us. I do not resort to that
subterfuge of age which treats it as though it were a
substitute for brains. ‘That subterfuge, intended for
self-defense, results only in self-delusion. Of course
experience is not a substitute for brains; nothing is.
Nor is it a substitute for a continuance of the educa-
tional process—a process marked by the paradox that»
the more one has the more he finds he needs. When
you see, as you sometimes will, your seniors approach-
ing serious problems armed only with an experience
that has included neither mental food nor mental exer-
cise, you will find only random gropings, at once inef-
fectual and pathetic. .

In this process of self-development, you who have
had the high privilege of college life start out with cer-
tain distinct advantages. You know something of what
education is! you have had considerable experience in
the art of getting it; you should not require proof of
its desirability. And you have, or should have, one
thing more; that which I like to think of as the Uni-
versity ideal, the ideal of perfection in your work, or
the nearest approach to it that you can compass. You
have been trained away from the smug superficiality, the
misleading catch-phrase, the cheap and false generali-
zation, the easy conclusion. ‘This ideal, if you have
gained it, is worth more than anything else you have
learned. It will abide so long as you cherish it. It
will serve you as long as you cleave to it. In it you
have the surest foundation upon which man can build.

not so far apart.

[ 43 ]

2 ae 2 E AL.) Uta N

I

MvA 2h ok 2a Ne

 

I suppose then, that we may take it for granted
that your education will go on. But along what lines ?
Obviously along those in which you are interested. ‘T’o
urge the contrary would be to forsake the theme of
pleasure to which I am committed, and to indulge in
the preaching which I have abjured. And it would be
bad preaching, for no preaching is good that can never
persuade, and I have no faith that any lay sermon, how-
ever beguiling, could prolong the pursuit of unpopular
studies beyond the class-room. So you will follow the
things in which you are interested, and what shall they
be?

For most city-dwelling Americans the normal trio
is business, golf, and bridge. Now I have no word
against golf and bridge; on the contrary, | profess un-
bounded admiration for those who can ply those avo-
[ confess that in my particular
case, after some ten years’ experience with golf, I con-
cluded that its pursuit was incompatible with the pro-
fession, let along the practice, of the Christian religion ;
but that was an indictment of myself rather than of
the game. bridge, particularly in its more modern and
mechanistic forms, requires a combination of memory
and divination quite beyond my reach. Accordingly,
as to neither of these subjects can | offer useful sug-
gestions; but I do not despair, for even in their present
dominance they yield in interest tor the average Am-
erican to his principal engrossment—his business, in
which term I, of course, include his profession.

I shall first, then, say something of the pursuit ot
your education in relation to your business, and after
that I shall speak of it from a quite different standpoint.
Throughout | trust to keep the idea of enjoyment to the
fore. For you will not enjoy your business unless you
succeed in it, and you will not succeed in it unless you
enjoy it. And this leads me to a preliminary word of
advice, with which some people may disagree. But [
believe it so deeply that I should be less than candid
did I not offer it. If, after a fair trial, you dislike
your work, change it—no matter how long you've spent
in preparation for it. There’s no poison in preparation
that you need to work out of your system. Don’t be
stopped by any solemn adages about putting your hand
to the plow and not turning back, or to the effect that
a rolling stone gathers no moss. Moss is not a very
valuable commodity in these days. Many a life has
been ruined by a determination to stick it out in an un-
congenial occupation; or more tragically still, by a de-
termination on the part of one person to have another
person stick it out. Of course I emphasize the fact
that you must try it out fairly. Don’t confuse tempo-
rary discouragements with deep-seated dislike; but, on
the other hand, don’t confuse the fine quality of resolu-
tion with plain pigheadedness. Don’t treat your work
as an antagonist and say that you'll beat it rather than
‘let it beat you. You want to love your work, not fight
it; and it would be a losing fight anyhow. Boredom

cations with success.

can ruin anybody in the long run, for where it does not
defeat, it desiccates.

| shall assume, then, that you are launched upon a
congenial vocation in which you will spend most of your
life. ‘This assumption may seem to put you quite de-
finitely and comfortably beyond the reach of a good
deal of advice. The entire subject, for example, of
scholastic education might seem to be foreclosed. But
I fear that I must disappoint this natural expectation ;
for with all the rashness of educational inexperience |
am tempted to say a few words as to the supposed pres-
ent trend towards functional as against cultural and
disciplinary education. The subject is timely. In a
recent report on higher education in Virginia | was
startled to see the declaration, set forth with all the glib
facility of a professional survey staff, that it had been
‘proven to the satisfaction of a large proportion” of
the members of faculties in State-supported institu-
tions that “the doctrine of mental discipline is fallac-
This ex cathedra deliverance was followed by
an urgent pronouncement in favor of so-called func-
tional education. Apparently the author proposed that
the colleges should train persons specifically and im-
mediately for their respective arts and crafts, and men-
tal discipline could go hang. The colleges would turn
out doctors and lawyers, preachers and teachers—lI
suppose the teachers would learn only their respective
subjects—realtors and accountants, brokers and _ sales-
men, all crammed full of information useful in their
special fields. As to all other subjects they would not
merely be proudly and happily ignorant, but they would
have been effectively shielded from the mental discip-
line that would render them capable of ever learning
about them.

You may think this beside the mark. You gradu-
ates have passed, you may say, the point of electing
between academic and functional types of education.
But I think it is not irrelevent; for just as education is
a life-long process, so this election is a life-long elec-
tion. And I venture to say to you now, just as confi-
dently as | would have said it to you at the outset of
your college life, that any education, in college or in
life, that ignores the cultural and disciplinary elements
is the education that makes the small man, not the big
one ; that leads to the little successes, not the great ones;
that makes for drabness, not happiness. It may make
money; it will not make men. It prepares for routine,
not for crises; and it is crises that ability leaves
mediocrity behind. Merely specialized training con-
sists in teaching you how to keep the rules; genius con-
sists in knowing when to break the rules. But one can
not know this unless he has, first the breadth of infor-
mation that enables him to see not merely through a
problem but all around it, and secondly, the mental dis-
cipline that enables him to comprehend and appraise
subsidiary questions in their due relation to the central
one. I therefore urge that you do not limit your self-

e 9
1OUS.

[ 44 ]

E Bik oat) A ee ae: IN

H
ae
education to the subjects of specific and obvious impact
upon your own business alone. ‘The business world is
full of little people whose whole scheme of life is built
upon a passionate unwillingness to learn anything out-
side their immediate field. Within its narrow confines
they plod their untroubled and undistinguished ways.
They know neither stress nor elation, growth nor de-
light. Such is their choice; such their regard.

oy quite realize that I may be flouting some time-

honored maxims. From time immemorial the shoe-
maker has been bidden to stick to his last; and lest I
he reminded that I am not talking to future shoemakers,
I add the pious counsel often given to young lawyers
that they “let the law be their love.” I fear that 1f
that advice were literally followed we should find a
stupid lover and a stupid mistress. No one will ever
hear me decry the pursuit of legal learning; but if the
lawyer stops with merely legal learning he will not go
far.

Again, we are told that this is an age of speciali-
zation; and in a sense this is true. Now it happens
that | see a good deal of specialization; and it is my
personal observation that leads me to emphasize the
importance of broad foundations. For the notable
thing about the march of modern business is that its
requirements are constantly narrowing at the bottom
and broadening at the top. If we go back to our shoe-
maker, for example, we find that in former days the
difference in required knowledge between the master
shoemaker and his workmen was not very wide. Each
and every one of them could make a pair of shoes with
his own hands; and the difference in achievement was
largely one of capital and personal force and traditional
or inherited position. But now the average employee
in a shoe factory knows but a few, perhaps only one, of
the many processes towards the finished product. The
president of his company may not know all the pro-
cesses, though he probably knows a good deal about
them; but he has to deal with problems of economics
and markets, of government and of law; to know how
to meet and deal with men, whether committees of em-
ployees or boards of directors or legislative commit-
tees; to speak to chambers of commerce or Rotary
Clubs or even to college graduates ; and the chances are
that the bigger he gets the more numerous will be the
calls in these apparently extraneous directions.

| beg you to believe that there is no hardship in
this catholicity of interest and of pursuit which I am
urging upon you. Quite the contrary. For you may
remember that I have assumed that your occupation is
congenial ; and if you can be persuaded that these things
are helpful they should gain and retain your interest.
And where interest is, tedium gives place to facility.
The school boy who stands appalled at learning the
dates of the Kings of England will simply gluttonize
Over a list of football scores three times as long and
remember every one of them after one reading. The

J

Maa: Gx At BC ly tee

broker's clerk who would rebel at memorizing the
names, let alone the dates, of a dozen painters of the
Renaissance will come within a quarter point of the
prices of a hundred stocks after one reading of a stock
list. The secret lies in the spirit of approach, and this
is determined by interest. If we can make our educa-
tion a process of finding out things we want to know,
rather than the hateful thing of learning things we do
not want to know, it will not be difficult. What we
need is to want to know.

| have dwelt thus long, perhaps overlong, upon the
relation of your future education to your business, be-
cause | am not too old to remember comething of the
eagerness of young men, towards the close of their col-
lege days, to come to grips with life and play their part
in its affairs; and when one is called away from those
affairs to come and talk to you he is expected to offer
what are called practical suggestions. And I have al-
ready declared myself enough of a realist to recognize
the dominating interest that business plays in our lite
today; and so from that standpoint I have given my
testimony to the importance, having regard to your suc-
cess and happiness, of your carrying forward the edu-
cation you have begun here. But in the short time |
have left I shall present a quite different conception—
and one leading, if you will but have it so, to a hap-
piness perhaps more real, probably more enduring, cer-
tainly more worth while.

Will you be content with a business success alone,
or will you

“Obey the voice at eve obeyed at prime” ?

Will the glimpse you have had—for it is not much
more—of the kingdom of the mind and the glory of it
permit you to stay without, not seeking to push farther
open the door which now stands ajar? Will you for-
get Cicero’s word that the studies that nourish youth
delight old age? For you, as for the brothers of Isa-
bella, will red-lined accounts be richer than the songs
of Grecian years? Is it enough for you that whatever
you win and keep shall be measurable only by money
as a common denominator? Or is there, in the lan-
guage of St. Paul to the Hebrews, “Some better thing.”

We often hear men say that if they gave up their
regular business they would be wretched—sometimes
they go so far as to say that they would die. The
The statement is usually made with a touch of pride,
but to me, generally at least, it spells tragedy. I say
“generally,” for there are a few dominant spirits whose
life-work consists in the exercise of power, and for
whom cessation means demotion. I do not speak of
them, but rather of that large majority who fear, not
loss of pestige, but loss of occupation. for them this
abhorrence of leisure means that they have neglected
to open a drawing account upon the inexhaustible
treasury of the history and the science, the literature
and the art of the world-—the only drawing account,
be it said, that is free to anyone who seeks it armed

[ 45 ]

i+ he: £ A LY Ue oe

I

MY As GS Ae: 2 LT Nee

 

only with a proper self-introduction. It means that they
have gone through life without understanding life, that
they have pursued the means without learning the end,
that they have lived to work, not worked to live. It is
the correlative of the oft-expressed ambition to die in
harness—an ambition which I frankly confess I neither
share nor comprehend. ‘The prospect of living in har-
ness holds small appeal to me; dying in it has less.

To confuse the sordid state of idleness with the
noble privilege of leisure is simple misunderstanding of
terms. Idleness is the antithesis of work; leisure is its
complement, and should be its reward—a reward whose
richness depends altogether upon the preparation for
its enjoyment. And the thought that, with deepest
conviction, I bring you from the world of affairs, and
that I leave with you as vou enter it, is that it is no less
essential to your happiness—yes, and to your useful-
ness—that you prepare for your hours of leisure than
for your hours of toil. The accumulated treasure of
the ages is before you. Will you reach out for it and
take what you will, or will you shrink back and let it
go?

In other lands, having larger and longer acquain-
tance than we with the business of living rather than
the business of supporting life, these things would be
taken for granted. Hgre the pioneer urge to win rath-
er than to enjoy still holds most of us enchained
often, indeed, even those who have beheld the truth
that should make them free. Millet’s art and Mark-
ham’s pen have consecrated to tragedy the “slave of the
wheel of labor,” but may we not wisely search our
hearts and ask what to us, any more than to him,

“Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades?

What the long reaches of the peaks of song,

The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose?”
And those things are hidden from our eyes in which
once they found de‘ight, if the minds are ciosed which
once were open, if beauty and truth are dead for us
when once we lived for, then, is not ours a tragedy
greater still?

Below your University’s quartered arms I find the
words Non in cautus futuri. If you very
truth safeguard that future which seems so distant but
which the quickening pace of the years will prove so
near, I counsel you to go on building the habitation of
the mind whose strong foundations have here been laid,
for “by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all
precious and pleasant riches.”

 

too

 

would in

fy
Vv

Lieutenant J. Seymour Letcher, ’27, United States
Marine Corps, who has been stationed in Norfolk,
spent a few days with his parents, Capt. and Mrs. G. D.
Letcher, ’85. Lieutenant Letcher was recently given
the Navy cross for gallantry while serving with the
marines in Nicaragua. He sailed Friday from New
York for a three years’ cruise in the Pacific on the

flagship Oklahoma.

LEVETT FOR GOVERNOR

Another Washington and Lee professor is to run
for governor. ‘This time it is former professor of the
Law School, Albert Levitt, who taught at Washing-
ton and Lee from 1924 to 1927. Mr. Levitt’s an-
nouncement is to the point. In the following terms
he asks Connecticut voters to aid him: “I ask for your
support in order that I may end the illegal and selfish
exploition of our state and its natural resources by J.
Henry Roraback and his agents.”

Mr. Levitt’s platform declares for enforcement of
Constitutional and state laws, regulation of public uti-
lities commission, survey of the state’s welfare institu-
tions, good roads for rural communities, abolishment of
child labor, old age pensions, equality of women, and
better provision for war veterans. Mr. Levitt himself
has a creditable war record.

He was born at Woodbine, Md., in 1887. He was
educated at Columbia, Yale, and Harvard.

4)
Vv

ONE DORMITORY ROOM

A great-nephew of Mrs. S. P. Lees, whose be-
quest provided for the construction of Lees dormitory
in 1904, is registered for entrance to the university in

BWeptember, 1930.

He is Mr. Henry Waller, Jr., of Portland, Ore. In
view of this connection and of the particularly close re-
lationship between Mr. Waller’s father, Mr. Henry
Waller, Sr., the university has offered him free of
charge, the choice of a room in lees dormitory.

¢y
VW

AGED ALUMNUS WELL

A letter from an alumnus in Florida brings the
information that Mr. A. W. Taylor of Gainesville, who
is now 8&4 years old is in good health, although his eye-
sight is failing. Mr. Taylor was a gallant soldier in
the War Between the States and was a student at
Washington and Lee under the presidency of General
Robert E. Lee, teaching a class under General Lee for
a short time. Mr. Taylor was born in Rockbridge and
has many friends in and around lexington.

“y
Vv

CAMPBELL—LEECH

Miss Edmonia Preston Leech, daughter of Mrs. J.
Houston Leech, of Monroe Park, Lexington, Virginia,
and Mr. Malcolm D. Campbell, B. A., ’05, were quietly
married Saturday morning, June 21, at the Presbyter-
ian Manse in Lexington, by Dr. James J. Murray. Mr.
and Mrs Campbell upon their return from a short
wedding trip, will live on White Street in Lexington.

“y
Vv

Dr. and Mrs. Jas. Lewis Howe will spend three
weeks in Newbetryport, Mass. They will go by boat
from Norfolk to Boston,

[ 46 ]

 

,

 

mH EF Ae eee Ms G) Ae’ Z {ene
a
PERSONALS of California and will continue her studies there dur-

Robert B. Campbell, ‘24, who has just completed
his first year’s studies as a student of Union Theolo-
jinary at Richmond, reached his home in Lex-
ington immediately following commencement at his
school. He will be employed this summer in minister-
‘al work in Rogersville, Tenn., assisting the Rev. R. D.
the pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

gical Sen

Carson,

Mr. William Baxter, B. A., °26, and graduate of
the Virginia Theological Seminary, was ordained as
deacon at an impressive service in the Robert E. Lee
Memorial church, on Thursday, May 26th, at 10 o’-
clock. Bishop Robert Carter Jett presided, and Dr.
Churchill Gibson, of Richmond, preached the ordina-

tion sermon.

Dr. Emmett E. McCorkle, °74, now of Ashland,
Ky., formerly pastor of the Bethesda Presbyterian
Church of Rockbridge Baths, Va., was honored at the
General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church
recently held in Charlottesville, by being named repre-
sentative of the church on the Federal Council of
Churches at Christ in America.

Hon. Joel W. Flood, ’15, Commonwealth’s At-
torney for Appomattox County, Va., has recently had
added to his already widely distributed activities, social,
political, and governmentl, a considerable extension of
his territory as Special Assistant to the Attorney Gen-
eral in matters of prohibition.

Judge James Quarles, ’89, of Milwaukee, a for-
mer member of the law faculty of Washington and Lee
spent a few hours in Lexington recently. He and Mrs.
Quarles with a party of friends were making the tour
of the Virginia Gardens, sponsored by the Garden
Chib of America.

Kdward Parks Davis, °15, now with the Steves
Sash and Door Co., Wichita Falls, ‘lex., has sold his
home in Monroe Park, Lexington, to Prof. Leonard C.
Helderman, of the W ashington and Lee history depart-

ment. Doctor Helderman moved into the house this
summer.

Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Shultz, (A. B. ’16, M. A. ’23)
are visitors in Lexington. ‘Ted is now completing his
work toward his Ph. D. at Columbia University and
Union Theological Seminary in New York. Mrs.

— and their four children will spend the summer
lere,

Miss Blanch P. McC rum, librarian at Washington
= Lee, has been granted a year’s leave of absence.
t€ will attend the summer school of the University

ing the coming winter.

Announcement has been received of the removal
of Greenberry Simmons, ’27, and H. M. Barker, ’28,
Simmons & Barker,-—to their new and enlarged suite
of law offices at 603-604 Inter-Southern Bldg., Louis-
ville, Ky.

 

Chas. Wesley Lowry, Jr., B. A., ’26, graduated
from the Episcopal Theolegical Seminary at Camb-
bridge, married and sailed for Europe on July Ist, to
continue his studies on a scholarship at Oxford.

Capt. Greenlee D. Letcher, ’85, has been appointed
by Governor Pollard to represent the state of Virginia
at the meeting of the United States Good Road Asso-
ciation in Oklahoma City July 7th to 10th.

Mr. and Mrs. Rayrnond G. Wickersham, ‘23, are
the parents of a son born May 6th, at Richmond, Va.,
where Mr. Wickersham will receive his B. D. at Union
Theological Seminary in 1931.

Lewis Powell, °30, president of the student body
last year, has been chosen as one of the four American
delegates to the National Student Conference at Brus-
sels, and will sail August Ist.

J. Preston Moore, B. A., ’27, received his M. A.
from Harvard at Commencement this year, majoring
in French, and will return there for further work to-
ward his Ph. D.

Bobby Howe, B. A., °28, graduated, with distinc-
tion, in the Business School at Harvard and will go
into business with his father in Helena, Ark.

Sam McCain, B. A., ’27, received his law degree
at Exeter College, Oxford, England, taking second
honors, and is continuing his work there.

Ann Goodridge Sale, Born June 18, 1930, Rich-
mond, Virginia—parents Mr. and Mrs. William Good-
ridge Sale (Scram) A. B., LL.B. ’27.

Ralph L. Scott, B. A., ’26, received his M. A.
from Harvard, and will continue his work on scholar-
ship at Harvard next year.

Mrs. Harry K. Young is in Europe this summer
with Miss Suzanne Pollard, daughter of Governor
John Garland Pollard.

Professor Rupert N. Latture is pursuing his
graduate studies at the University of Chicago during
the summer.

a7)

re H-.-z A, Lis Uae aie N

I

MA G A Zi1=£sNe@@

 

Ed Miller, B. A., ’28, president of the W. & L.
student body for that year, completed his second year
at Harvard.

Tom Moore, B. A., ’26, M. A. Columbia, ’27, is
with, the General Electric Company at Bridgeport
Conn.

Lewis Tyree, °15, and family are in Lexington
for the summer, occupying the West home on Main
Street.

Mr. Thomas McP. Glasgow, of Charlotte, N. C.,
visited his relatives in Lexington recently.

Chas H. Taylor, A. B., °17, M. A., is Assistant
Professor in the history department at Harvard.

J. Simms Edmondson, *18, of Memphis, Tenn.,
was a recent visitor at the Alumni Building.

Davis Reed, Jr., B. A., ’28, completed his second
year at Harvard and will return next session.

Judge E. C. Caffrey; 09, President of the Alumni,
Inc., is traveling in Europe this summer.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, was recently elected presi
dent of the Lexington Rotary Club.

Professor Walter A. Flick is teaching in the sume
mer school of Emory University, Georgia.

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon is teaching in the summer
school at the University of Virginia.

MEMORIAL FOR MORRISON
(Continued From Page 16)

Noy. 10, 1867; graduated from Washington and Lee
with the degree of A. B., 1887. After completing his
preparation at the Presbyterian Theological Seminary,
louisville, Ky., he became a Missionary to the Bel
gian-Congo. He was prosecuted for his aggressive ex-
posure of the oppression and atrocities suffered by the
natives, but was acquitted and vindicated. Author of
the first grammar and dictionary of the native dialect
and paraphrased the Scriptures therein. He died
March 14, 1918, and was buried at Luebo, Africa.

There is no native of Rockbridge County who
more richly deserves the honor being sought for him
than Dr. Morrison.

 

DorEMUS GYMNASIUM—INTERIOR VIEW °

[ 48 ]

= D V. E eee ee

 

—

 

 

This Issue of
The Alumni!Magazine

Was printed in the
Journalism Laboratory
at Washington and
ice.

All reading matter
with the exception of
large headlines was
produced by the Mer-
genthaler Linotype,
Model 14.

The text of the mag-
azine 1s set in 10-point
Ronaldson Old Style,
known for its legi-
bility. Large headlines
are hand-set in 36-
point Garamond.

The two-colored
cover of the magazine
also is a product of
the laboratory, which
for business purposes
is known as

The Virginian Publishing Co.,

Incorporated

 

Home Coming Alumni

See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Surber Publishing Co.

(INCORPORATED)

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT”

 

 

a fo RR Tt fee N: G eee eo a ee eS

12

 

 

 

Uncle Dan’s

Genuine Virginia Grown Hickory Cured Hams

   
     
  

nt et vith tty Vi MW) yy
nee! raat Hang wm ITNT

Halli AN Sl ly
Gi lain inh ih 33

  
 

  

(Trade Mark Registered)

Smoked With Green Hickory Wood to
Give Them That Irresistable Flavor

SHIPPED ALL OVER THE WORLD

Direct to Consumer From Smokehouse on the Farm

QUALITY HAMS FROM “CULTURED HOGS”

Lower Prices This Season

Every Ham Guaranteed Satisfactory
Write for New Price Schedule

(I-ffective August Ist.)

OWEN HAM COMPANY

(Dan B. Owen, ’12)

Box A Doylesville, Va.

 

 

oo. aoa
4 a VE Pe
e ae _ . ae
’ eee
ee ie les
Yc :

oa sd <a
eaadek so ken
oo ae. ae
ls y EO OPI =f eg, oa LA ale
os “3 2 wad PN gah nets,“
Se Cae a | x eee =a
oy 27 Seton, Soe ees

*

io een
Lf tate

se : me. j e a?
eae cae SS ier
eae <eahes

* a - , r~. ‘ a ‘ od as
Aaah apa aha

i ae

ES ara!

?,
ee sf

» eee
- in

is
rN,
=

»

7. . aie a
* ae.
r sen

ir

or. A
oo The
ct
ee
é,

 

fs

Sy ts E

FOOTBALL

FOLLOW THE GENERALS

THROUGH THEIR 1930 SCHEDULE

 

 

Sept. 20 Randolph-Macon _ . Lexington
Sept. 27 Hampden-Sidney . Lynchburg

Oct. 4 Richmond . . . Richmond
Oct, 11 West Virginia . . Charleston
Oct. 18 Kentucky ._ . Lexington, Ky.
Oct. 25 St. Johns. .'*. . Lexington
meee Ve Pl. Jo Cae. «Lexington
Nov. 8 Maryland. . . College Park
Nov. 15 Virginia . . . Charlottesville
fee 27 Duke. . Te . 4 Durham

 

 

Write Capt. Dicer Smith for Reservations

Boost Your Alma Mater

