°
>
‘wee +
:
;
4
4

ovem bee ~fO3¢- ae ==

 

oh
r
- —
i
- oe =
. a
eo
% <_-A
a ol
we > .
” 4 " mt

. ; wr
» = -
rea ed |
7 = oo)
. “* »
. : : bewe.
°° . <
ve 2 :
- 7 : XY
. a... .
»
- '
“
va ;
beh
- :

 

oy “ra
aie whave-cewent / lyre
ow ey RWS ++ “ 4

WIN IES SCE ee ene 4

APPR We een st

OPO VOL NIE ner ee

 

 

am - 4
~ a. VTA e SOBA POLY
oan enw

_— ~

 

4
oe
:
\
a
:
if
’
is
;
: '
’ 7
; :
“
:
‘}
Py
iL
:.%
a at
.
rei
£ Ww.
fy
od. -t
*™

 

ee

 

eon ae
on ie oe >
ER NO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

tt . é : . ) ? SA ae a ‘ See y
~~ > ~ , 7 ; S ear LY =. :
- el
ae : ~ ;
: y De a 7 , ?
aay, . =m om Fp ~ We’
aa: . . A -
wes on ee ‘ 4 -
: . <n ~ . : -- <>
. . . . ~ SS r ee - .
- ~s A ee - a - . - J
: ~ .
s as . - .
x ~— “ ee ; ~-* .
“ a tie > = -
- ~~ « .
oe - ns “¥
as . a > i . a 4 “
~ “ . = 4. ‘ - -
A ~ y . ’ “ -
c <~ ~ ~~. - % ~ °
. . “ S .
*. c 2 ~ ~ a «
a + fe ,
=, 3x... .
Penne ae a : .
fs . 2 «
. : °
‘ - ‘ aa
. - — x
a —_ . S a = te. pe ms ~ - m
> — ° - . a wo ge
~~ . . b ~~ 7 5
. ¢ . - —. . °
~ <a - .— . . . .
* : a e ~ . ~~" ‘s
' . co. v*- < - « . x » .
=? - _ A * " = om * . - -
ee nn The - . :
—_ pe ™~< * . , - = -
: ’ ag “ ~~ > ' ‘ .
_* <- < _< - mT. ‘ - - < - -
-..* S . <7 ¥ _ gee i a .
ay, fe - a AD a> 4 ~ “—— : . ~ a" ‘ ,
mae “ry A = —* ~~" > ln ade “ r
A _ ~ _— » nw . ~ a -~ " -
hs a > : : Y .
~~ . - ~~
: s “ “* < . >
5 - « - S - a - ay
- > > el) . a, yo
- . on aI so ae Oe - <0
. C ‘
‘ . > 79
ms ¢ ; ‘ a
* - » -: .
_—
: “e ‘ “ aa ° ’ : - .
. _ . o . = a reo = oneness — : :
Pra er ae aa rT oe a" P: ‘ eres - a re es ~ en a gala oan nn or rome nn ~ iit
7 - ao} ens aT ao = ee

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

Walter MacDonald, President Harry K. Young, Secretary Stuart Moore, Treasurer
ALUMNI BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Walter A. MacDonald, °10 Randolph Cabell, ’20 Thomas McP. Glasgow, 16 J. Ran Tucker, ’02
Stuart Moore, °15 Dozier A. DeVane, ’08 Edward W. Lee, 713
VOL. VIII NOVEMBER 1932 NO. 2
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924
-_ LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS
Appalachian Assocation, Tenn.-Va.—J. M. Barker, Jr., Memphis, Tenn.—J. TI. Morgan, Investments and Securities.
Security Investment Company. New York—LEdward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
Atlanta, Ga—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. New Orleans, La.—E. E. Dufour, 5240 Prytania Street.
Birmingham, Ala.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Bldg. Norfolk, Va.—Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building.
Charleston, W.Va.—W.W. Donnally, Kanawha Valley Bank Pittsburgh, Pa—C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Charlotte, N. C.—Phil Howerton, 1100 Dilworthe Rd., W. Philadelphia, Pa—E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Dallas, Texas—A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building. Pocohontas Club, Bluefield, W. Va.—A. L. Tyree, Bluefield,
Detroit, Mich—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Co. West Virginia.
Fort Worth, Texas—E. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building. Roanoke, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
Huntington, W. Va.—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank. Richmond, Va.—Ran Tucker, State-Planters Bank Bldg.
Jacksonville, Fla—R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue. San Antonio, Texas——Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash
Lynchburg, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch Building. and Door Company.
Louisville, Ky.—Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Bldg. Washington, D. C.—\Voodson P. Houghton, Southern Bldg.
CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
Vacation. in the (Oemeita (occa es 3 Alumnus Gains Important Post............00.......... 14
Dr. Robert Granville Campbell........................ 5 NINN Catt A OM os cada detles igh is cks eve idededives 14
Trustees Hold Fall Meeting......................0... 6 Winter Sports at W. .and . L....................008 15
Dr. Will Durant Assembly Speaker................ 6 New Freshman Basketball Coach.................... 16
Alumnus is Popular Professor........................ 7 IRM eo 66.4 cE aTa ac, ayew rss yon yciwiac vanes PEM 16
“The Shine” Dipearigie i 2 i citescs pean, 8 Interest in Student Library Contest................ 17
Fancy Dress Outstanding Feature.................... 8 SURI: FOREMITUB SS ois. s ccc isadasapddin ceercidecackas 18
Dr. Francis P. Gaines—a Worker................ 9 Elected Attorney-General....................000...08. 18
Lee’s Death 62 Years Agi iii sii. 0 chs. heciue 10 Close Contests in Campus Elections................ 19
Gaines Addresses Meetings.................0.00..0000. 10 Former ‘Protessor, in. Politics.....:....i...0006...-...0 19
Waitresses at the “Beanery”...............0.0.00000.-. 10 H. S. Editors Gather at W. and L................. 20
Strong Defense Downs U. of Va... 1] PREIS cectrcacr cl ie ee keen oe Do 22
John A. Graham,’ Composet......::.0:.00060cc...0 12 Pittsburgh, Pa., Alumni Meet...............:..04.- 23
’'reshmen Have Good Football Season............ 13 Richmond, Va., Alumni Meet........................ 23
Cy Young is Basketball Coach.......00.00.000.000.. 13 Obituary :
Dr. Tucker Resigns......... abides Comite ie 14 Judge Daniel Ei. COR Ge. -.33.. iad 23
Calyx Wins First Place: :......ccccdbcssséeccciciecests- 14 Judge Robert Ewing, ’68................0...... 23

 

 

 

[1]

: - toe NN i]

ss mf «
, . | , ‘s hag at
ty a " oy : 2 . $4 REE - i. s ~~, ee

pan Wee w

: Pees 2 ear _

 

A Dae mM IN

I

M @eees A. oS 1 ae. &

 

Vacation

B y JAS

Spe VISIT China had long been a dream, more

made his home in that land, and even more insistent

insistent in recent years since my son* has

now that there is growing up in that home a little girl
who had never seen grandfather or grandmother.

When, last winter, the trustees of the University
granted me leave-of-absence for the second half of the
spring semester, it seemed as if that dream was to be-
come a reality. Then the Japanese descended on
Shanghai and our Department of State wrote me that
Americans better stay at home. But the war clouds
turned a brighter lining toward Washington, the Junior
cabled “Come,” and in the early morning of May 8
Mrs. Howe and | were steaming up the Wangpoo, past
the wreck of the Chinese defenses, and an hour later
my son and his wife** were giving us a warm welcome
to Shanghai.

That afternoon, “J” and I walked out into
Chapei until turned back by the Japanese troops, who
were still in control of that section of the Chinese city.
The destruction surpassed anything I had ever dreamed

At all

events, it was not calculated to gain the good-will of

of, and much of it seemed absolutely wanton.

the Chinese, or to lessen their boycott on Japanese
goods.

Our first six weeks were spent in J’s home at
Zakow, the suburb of Hangchow where the Hangchow
Christian College is located. The buildings of the
college are on a terrace above the banks of the Chien
Tang River, of the celebrated bore, nearly a mile wide

*James L. Jr., °18, known to his fellow students as “J”.

**Mary West, well known to many readers of the Alumni
Magazine.

-

ns

oe.

 

= ~~

~ .
~ ea —_—
_ ae :

Picnic Party at a West Lake Villa

in the Orient

Lewis Howe

 

On West Lake Causeway. Three Generations

at this point. ‘Two new buildings were just being com-
pleted, a beautiful library and a science hall; on one
floor of the latter |] is trying the present semester to
last
spring there were some 400 students, while this session
there are more than 600, and there would be a thousand
if they could be accommodated.

keep 200 students busy with their chemistry.

Possibly the Chinese
feel that they are safer here in case of another Japanese
invasion, than they would be in the colleges of the port
cities, but I imagine all the colleges are thronged with
students. China is,
there 1s everywhere among the student class the most
intense spirit of nationalism—to my mind, this is the

Inhomogenous and divided as

hope of China—and, realizing their backwardness in
what the world calls progress, there is an eager desire
Not

that they believe their own civilization of the past two

to fit themselves to cope with modern civilization.

thousand years and more to be in any way inferior,
but they recognize it does not pass as current coin today.

Thus I was greatly interested in the tone of num-
erous student orations to which I listened. They were
characterized by a fervor and earnestness, a sense of
the evils of the present system with its omnipresent
“squeeze, and a call to sacrifice self for country, that
was gratifying as it was unexpected. ‘They showed
There are rel-
atively few co-eds at Hangchow, but one of the finest

thought and seemed sincere and honest.

of these orations was by a young woman, and I am not
sure but that there 1s more hope for China from her
It is needless to
add that these orations were couched in excellent Eng-

young women than from her men.

lish, indeed much of the instruction in the college is

given in English. Whether English or Mandarin will

tC es A Lia M N

be the future language of China seems to be an open
question.

The faculty houses at the college are mostly above
the campus, on the slopes of a hill, about as steep as
the path from the W. and L. gymnasium down to
Wood’s creek. This hill, like all those of the vicinity,
was till recently denuded of timber and, except for
brush which is cut for fuel, bare. Extensive foresting
was carried out on the college property when the col-
lege was founded, and the whole slope is now a beau-
tiful park, cut by paths of varying degrees of steepness,
many of the ascents being by
stone steps. As all are too
steep for rickshas, “running
home” is quite an exercise,
unless one happens to have
chair and_ bearer

a sedan

coolies. Needless to say, the
ordinary method of locomo-
tion is “shank’s mare.”

The view from the room
which for six weeks we called

We

wooded

our home was superb.

looked down the
slope to the campus and then
to the

Karely were less than fifty

ee os

broad river below.

boats, from little sampans to big three-masted junks,

in sight at one time. Across, a mile or so of green rice

helds ; beyond, the mountains. It had struck us in May
that a more delightful place could not be found for a
summer resort, and we wondered why all felt they must
go away for July and August. We did
these lovely mountains on every side

°
-

not then realize
so cut off the
breezes that the summer heat becomes almost unbear-
able. | went back to the college for a short business trip
early in August, and found the thermometer on the up-
per porch standing at 93 degrees at eleven at night.
What the heat must be in summer in the flatter regions
of the interior one can only imagine!

There are few roads yet in China, though they are
rapidly building fine automobile highways; but every-
where there are paths, often wide enough for a ricksha,
more commonly mere footpaths; here little stone walks
between the mud of the rice fields, again through nar-
row vales with tea gardens extending up the slopes:
now up the hillsides and through beautiful bamboo
grooves, or over the bare summits. All along these
paths are little villages, sometimes of half a dozen
houses, sometimes of fifty, generally surrounded by a
wall; in most cases a little tea-house where one may
*Word has recently come of the sudden death of Dr. Blain.

His loss will be severely felt in mission work. No for-
eigner was more esteemed among the Chinese.

I

TRIN ..

 

eres a 4 oe Re

On the Steps of Lin Yin Temple

TA

He}

Micon as: Alig ok Bee

sip a dainty cup of boiling water in which a few leaves
of tea have been sprinkled. Raw water is dangerous
to drink almost everywhere in China; hot tea is the
national beverage, but this is after all sterilized water

It

is really surprising how refreshing it is to slowly sip hot

with just sufficient tea to give it a delicate flavor.

tea—without sugar or cream—on a day when the tem-
perature is hovering around 100 degrees. It is regu-
larly served on all the trains, and every fifteen or
twenty minutes the “boy” goes through the cars with
a large kettle of boiling water, filling up the glasses as

they have been sipped up

(or down). In traveling
down from Nanking to
Shanghai in August, I must
have drunk at least half a
gallon of tea during the eight
hours on the train. Since

the same tea leaves serve for
the whole trip, the tea was
before arrival

rather weak

at destination. On long bus
trips, and buses are being

introduced just as fast as

 

" roads are completed on which
they can run, tea is omitted
while the bus is in motion,
but the stops are very frequent, and at each stop there
is a convenient tea-house at hand for the thirsty
traveler.

The Chinese are a kindly people and always seem
to have smiles for the foreigner. Naturally they have
much curiosity, but one soon becomes accustomed to
being stared at. I wandered about much in out of the
way places, but never once did I see a hostile look or
hear an expression of animosity. Probably things
have changed in this respect in recent years.

Through the kindness of my old friend, Mercer
Blain,* ‘93, I was enabled to see much of Hangchow,
of which the ordinary globetrotter never catches a
glimpse. This was especially true of the educational
and industrial work, largely promoted by mission en-
terprise. Much of the city of Hangchow seems to be
as thoroughly Chinese as it was in the time of Marco
Other
parts of the city show decidedly modern influences,

Polo, or even a thousand years before that.

especially in the broad avenues and the esplanade along
West Lake. The lake it the
great and celebrated beauty spot of the city, and is sur-

is, as has ever been,

rounded by beautiful hills and many fine residences

and villas. Dozens of boats are poled about the lake

every afternoon, with individuals, families, or fre-

(Continued on page twenty-one )

E A Lia ee

I

M: Ait AGQZ boON

Dr. Robert Granville Campbell

R. ROBERT GRANVILLE CAMPBELL,
08, *99, until June of last year head of the de-
partment of Political Science and Sociology at Wash-
ington and I,ee University, died in Baltimore, October
17. an illness
extending over
period of several

after
a

years. His resignation
as professor of politi-
cal science last June
terminated a career as
student and professor
lasting thirty years.
Dr. Campbell was
born at
Virginia, february 11,
1879, the son of Alex-
ander Doak Campbell,

Greenlee,

a cousin of Dean H.
D. Campbell. He re-
ceived his A.B. degree
at Washington and
lee 1898 and his
M.A. the
year. As
graduate he won three

in
following
an under-

scholarships. The first

of these was that
given by the Latin

department, received

in 1895. The follow-
ing year he won the

Franklin Society

Scholarship, and = in
1898 the Mapelson
Award.

He played on the
baseball team for five
years and the football

team for four years
and was captain of
each of these teams.

He was considered the best all-round athlete while he
was in the University and belongs to that small group

of Washington and Lee’s great all-time athletes. His
interest in athletics continued throughout his life. He

was a member of the Washington and Lee Athletic
Council until his resignation from the faculty. He was
a tamiliar figure on the field and in the gymnasium,

both for practice and games. He took many trips with

 

[5]

and of

the a constant source encourage-
ment and inspiration to them. For the past seven-
teen years, he and Mrs. Campbell gave monogram
to the football team.

After graduating,
he taught school at
the Episcopal high
school at Alexandria,
Virginia, and then en-
tered the Johns Hop-
kins University where
he received the degree
of Doctor of Philoso-
phy in 1908. The fall
of the same year he
entered the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty,
where he_ rendered
brilliant and conspicu-
service for the
twenty - four

team was

the members of

blankets

ous
next
being away
the University
for only years
during the war. He
was a special lecturer,
with the rank of sec-
ond lieutenant, in the
Army _ Educational
Corps; “A. Eig, i
I‘rance, and after that
was with the United
States Shipping Board

years,
from
two

in London for a year.
He was Professor of
Government, Univer-
sity of Virginia, sum-
mer sessions, 1923-4.

Dr. Campbell
married Miss Ellen
North Moale of Bal-
timore, June 20, 1908,
a member of a very old and distinguished Maryland
family, who survives him.

Dr. Campbell was a member of the American Po-
litical Science Association, the American Economic
Association, the American Academy of Political and
Social Science, Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Delta Theta, Alpha
Kappa Psi, Phi Gamma Mu, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

(Continued on page sixteen)

A bea M N

I

Mm wees 6 A UN ee

 

ee ny a.

ay tite Sw
Fe SY
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Office of the President
November 17, 1932
Washington and Lee men everywhere will be hap-
py to learn that General John A. Lejeune, of V. M. L.,
who was seriously injured by a fall on the Institute

 

grounds in mid-September, is making steady progress
toward complete recovery.

General Lejeune, our honorary alumnus, is a great
American, a competent college chief, a noble gentleman,
and last but from our point of view not least, a devoted
friend to Washington and Lee.

Francis P. GAINES

 

Trustees Hold Fall Meeting

GENERAL routine business which develops between
the more important meetings at Commencement and on
founders’ Day was the subject of the regular fall meet-
ing of the Board of Trustees, held October 29th.

‘The session was called to order at 9:30 in the office
of the president. Several items, including the pres-
ent condition of the University, with special emphasis
on the state of certain investments and returns, were
discussed, and final decisions reached regarding the
the

routine business which always arises. Among

more specific matters dealt with was the granting of
leaves for additional study to Messrs. Hill and Hinton
of the faculty.

Kollowing the meeting of the Board of ‘Trustees
and the Alumni Board, the scheduled joint meeting of
these two groups opened at 11:00 o'clock. <A general
survey of alumni activity was presented, and the plan,
initiated by the president of the alumni, Mr. Walter
A. MacDonald of Cincinnati, offered for consideration.
Final endorsement was given to this proposition, details
of which may be had in the last issue of the Alumni
Magazine.

Members of the Board of Trustees present were:
Hon. G. W. St. Clair, Rector, Tazewell, Va.; Judge
Charles J. McDermott of New York; Hon. W. M.
Martin, St. Louis; Hon. Herbert Fitzpatrick, Cleve-
land; Superintendent Harrington Waddell, Lexington ;
Judge George C. Peery, Richmond; Dr. W. L. Carson,
Richmond; and Mr. James R. Caskie, Lynchburg.

included :
Bare, Cin-
cinnati; Colonel LeRoy Hodges, Richmond; R. M.
Cabell, Covington; Walter E. Hoffman, Norfolk; Dr.
J. Morrisott Hutchinson, Richmond; Secretary H. K.
Young, Lexington; Dr. W.
West Virginia.

Representatives of the Alumni Board

J. Randolph Tucker, Richmond; Roger J.

RK. Laird, Montgomery,

 

Dr. Will Durant Assembly Speaker

At A University Assembly during October, Dr.
Will Durant, internationally known author, lecturer,
and philosopher, spoke on the subject, “Is Progress
Real ?”

The opportunity to hear Dr. Durant was provided
by the Christian Council of the University and the
gymnasium was filled to capacity by students, cadets
Dr. Durant comes from Columbia
He was introduced by Dr. Gaines.

and townspeople.
University.

The address of Dr. Durant was the first scheduled
for the ensuing year. It is the purpose of the com-
mittee to engage speakers who
in their lines of endeavor, but
public. During the past two
gaged have been nationally prominent figures and have

are not only authorities
also well-known to the
years the speakers en-

been accorded an excellent reception by the student
body.

 

Davip A McCANDLEs, JR
Louisville, Ky., with offices

., 26, is practicing law in

in the Inter-Southern

building. He is associated with his father, Judge D.
A. McCandles, Sr., former Chief Justice of the Court

of Appeals of Kentucky.

 

Pe: Be ee ee

I

Mies AO 2 Se ee ee

 

Alumnus is Popular Professor

STRIKING figure among the members of
Washington and Lee faculty is one of our
own popular alumni, Livingston Waddell
Smith, Ph.D.

and Lee he pursued advanced studies at Johns Hop-

After taking degrees at Washington

kins for a year and from 1903 to 1906 he was instructor
in Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology.
Since 1906 Dr. Smith
Cincinnati
Mathe-
Just by look-

has been
Professor of
matics.
ing at him you can tell
that he stands high
among his colleagues
and that the students
look up to him.

Dr. “Liv.” is one
of the most business-
like men on the cam-
pus, for he knows his
business, he attends
to his business and he
own busi-
strictly. His
balanced judgement,
his loyalty to the col-

minds his

ness

lege traditions and his
keen sense of humor
imake him a valuable
member of nearly ev-
ery important faculty
committee. He is well
and liked
throughout the entire
student body. Perhaps

known

his principal vice is
that of terrorizing
generation after gen-
eration of timid fresh-
men as he towers over
them, striding back
and forth across the squeaky floor high up in the old
Washington building, and occasionally flinging chalk
against the blackboard in cases of extreme provoca-
tion.
Dr.
slender write-up which he prepared for the Alumni
Directory.

Smith’s modesty is duly. attested by the

This useful little volume fails to tell us

Dv

 

Livingston Waddell Smith, Ph.D.

how tall he 1s, how much he weighs, what brand of
cigarettes accounts for his graceful figure or even when
he was born. We know that he is an active member
of the Phi Kappa Psi and of Phi Beta Kappa and that
he has given liberally of his time and counsel in
the and lee athletics.

service of Washington

It is stated on
proper authority, also,
that he took his A.B.
This

than

degree in 1896.
fact has more
passing local interest,
since four other well-
known lLexingtonians
who received degrees
at that time are B. F.
Bia Ga
eamster, A.B., Frank
biLe..
M.

Harlow,
Moore, and
Paul Penick,
Lekat,

Dr. “Liv.” Smith
is made of good stuff.
tle wears exceedingly
well. He has extend-
ed himself for Alma
Mater as few of her

Nor

appear to

sons have done.
does he

be puffed up by flat-

tery (or anything
else). He embodies

in his dignified bear-
ing and genial person-

ality the qualities
which have ever dis-
tinguished typical

Washington and Lee
rs

men. The grand old
+ . . . a.
University will merit
the support and pa-
tronage of her far-
flung alumni as long as such sterling men as Livingston
Smith set the tone for her faculty.

 

EK. Wartnc Wi son, 98, chairman of the Execu-
tive Committeé of the Philadelphia Washington and
ee Club, represented the University at the Centenary
Celebration of Lafayette Colege.

tf. .3 es A Lea M N

“The Shine” Magazine

Washington and Lee's newest enthusiasm
replete with sparkling wit.

On Ocroser 10, a creditable magazine with a dis-
tinct humorous tone appeared on the Washington and
Lee campus. “The Shine” is an admirably chosen
title for the publication in view of the unique applica-
tion of the word in Virginia collegiana. The first
issue displayed a cover of solid black with the letters
of “The Shine” artistically effected in silver gilt. The
material and general make-up of the first issue evinced
wide praise from several papers of the State. Faculty
members of Washington and Lee also seemed ayree-
ably surprised by this initial effort; and a great step
was taken in wiping out the prejudice created by the
ignominous end of a previous magazine.

“The Shine,” according to the policy outlined by
its editors, is not one of those too prevalent rah-rah
college comics. Rather, it endeavors to combine fact,
news, humor, comment, and art in a strikingly differ-
ent manner. The elaborate compilation of smutty
jokes which generally comprises the major part of col-
lege comics is absent. The wit intrigues with its orig-
inality and sophistication. Art work in “The Shine”
bids fair to compete with professional endeavor. ‘The
men behind the project appear determined to produce
a magazine of an attractive nature for collegians by
collegians. ‘The November issue now on sale has one
of the most elaborate covers to be presented on a col-
lege magazine. Cost of production of the cover alone
is said to have run over the century mark. Also in
this number, the noted humorist, H. I. Phillips, con-
tributes a page of his inimitable wit anent the resum-
ing of Army-Navy football relations.

“The Shine” has been favorably received both by
Washington and Lee and the neighboring male and
female institutions. Of special interest to Sweet-
briar and Randolph-Macon are columns pertaining to
them which appear in each issue. Also, Virginia Mil-
itary Institute has a monthly section of eight pages in
“The Shine” inasmuch as their magazine has gone out
of existence. This arrangement has proven extra-
ordinarily successful. It well bespeaks the excellent
relations now existing between Washington and Lee
and Virginia Military Institute. An extensive adver-
tising campaign has been launched by the publishers
with the purpose of making every college student of
Virginia acquainted with ‘The Shine.” Roanoke,
Richmond, and Lexington theatres run monthly trail-
ers on their screens announcing each issue. The mag-
azine is on sale at the leading newsstands in each of
these cities.

|

I

8

NM ers: A eee EE: Pee

The size of “The Shine,” at present, ranges from
thirty-two to forty pages. It is published nine times
during the school year; and the subscription price is
two dollars. Single copies retail for twenty-five cents.
The by-line “focusing on a new collegiana’” aptly con-
veys the general atmosphere of this new type of col-
legiate magazine. It is the intention of the editors to
make “The Shine” an interesting periodical state-wide
in its scope. This is an experiment the apparent suc-
cess of which is arousing widespread admiration.

Herbert Rudlin and R. D. Hudson are co-editors of
“’The Shine”; and R. D. Hudson fulfills the office of
business manager. Various contributors appear in
different issues of the magazine. ‘The editors at pres-
ent are extremely desirous of expanding their alumni
subscriptions. The October issue is available to all
those who subscribe with the November issue. All
conmnunications with ‘The Shine” should be addressed
to drawer 918, Lexington, Virginia.

 

Fancy Dress Outstanding Feature

[IN AN announcement recently issued by the Ameri-
can ‘Tobacco Corporation, sponsors of the Lucky Strike
radio program, the broadcast of the Washington and
lee University Fancy Dress Ball last year is listed as
one of the most outstanding features of the Magic
Carpet program. Among the other prominent events
presented by the Magic Carpet were the broadcast of
the Sharkey-Schmeling championship fight, the winter
Olympics from Lake Placid, New York, a broadcast
by a dance orchestra flying in an airplane over New
York City, and the music from Dublin, Ireland on
Saint Patrick’s Day.

It has been estimated that the Magic Carpet, since
its first flight November 3, 1932, has covered over a
million miles. It has taken trips to Berlin, Paris, Lon-
don, Dublin, Buenos Aires, Havana and Montreal,
cities of three different continents, presenting the dance
music typical of each.

 

H. St. G. T. CarmicHaet, '99, vice-president of
the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., at Kyrock, Ky., has
been appointed a member of the Kentucky Crippled
Children’s Commission by Governor Ruby Lafoon.

 

G. WaALpo DuNNINGTON, '28, is teaching German
at Horner college, Kansas City, Mo. He is president
of the Phi Beta Kappa Association of Greater Kansas
City with 350 members, and is serving as National
Historian of Kappa Phi Kappa. On April 14, 1932,
he delivered an address on General Lee before the Mis-
souri Valley Historical Society at its annual meeting.

 

 

H 5 Aide tee Be aN

I

Mies A

 

Dr. Francis P. Gaines—a Worker

\Axour years ago the Washington and Lee

Board of ‘Trustees was faced by the important
task of selecting to fill the position once held by Lee
4 man who could meet the manifold ideals demanded
by alumni, faculty, students, and Lexingtonians. There
was that the
could possibly be approved

Trustees

natural doubt choice of the
by all elements interested
after the first enthusiastic
applause at the entrance
of any new president had
died away. ‘There can be
no finer tribute to the ef-
ficient administration,
charm of personality, and
clear-eyed vision of Fran-
cis Pendleton Gaines than
that given by the vigorous
and single-noted approval
of each of these elements
regarding the two and a
half of
Gaines’ regime at Wash-

years President
ington and Lee. It may be
of interest to note a few of
the outstanding achieve-
ments of President Gaines
during the short period
that he has been in office.

Nearly every impor-

 

has brought sympa-
with analytical
to bear on in-

at President (Gaines

thy

present.
and understanding, combined
vision and discriminating judgment,
dividual faculty problems and the larger perplex-
of
The position achieved by President Gaines in the
| of the students
of the University is one

ities curricula and administration.

hearts

of universal enthusiasm.
His popularity rests on
their assured confidence in
his ability to meet every
demand and on his often
interest in
every member of the stu-

demonstrated

dent body as an individ-
ual. It is doubtful if any
one in the University, with
the possible exception of
our uncannily gifted regis-
trar, can call by name as
many students as he. His
interest in all student ac-
tivities and
stimulating, and expressed
not only in counsel but by

is vigorous

personal attendance at
student gatherings of

every purpose.

One Lexington mer-

tant alumni group, even so chant remarked: ‘When
far away as Texas, has President Francis P. Gaines he came into my store,
been addressed by _ the | knew that Washington

president. Inspiration resulting in a high-water mark
of enthusiastic loyalty to the institution has followed
the personal knowledge of the alumni as to the type of
man to whom the destinies of Washington and Lee
To
group he has brought the feeling that he is an integral
part of the spirit of their institution, that his life is

have been entrusted. ach alumnus and to each

bound up with its success, and that no finer living
It
is hard to believe that any other man could have secured

embodiment of its personality exists than in him.

more completely the confidence of the alumni that
under the leadership of President Gaines Washington
and Lee’s future will be commensurate with its past.
Older members of the faculty have said that no
previous time has seen more of-a spirit of harmonious
striving for the good of Washington and Lee than

and Lee had the right man. I asked him if he was
a stranger in Lexington, and he simply said, ‘My name
is Gaines; I’m connected with the University over
here’. The residence built for General Lee as presi-
dent of the college is a center of friendly hospitality
to a community warm in its approval of Washington
and Lee’s president.

Of the major tangible achievements of President
Gaines’ administration probably none looms as large as
his effective work in gaining for Washington and Lee
national recognition of dignity and favor. His inaugu-
ration, the McCormick Celebration, and the George
3i-Centennial

have focused

the attention of America upon Washington and Lee.

Washington Celebration
National and international figures have been present

at these celebrations and on other occasions. Among

T; Bees A. Liem Nf

these speakers have been the Secretary of the Interior,
Ray Lyman Wilbur, U. S. Commissioner of Education,
William John Cooper, Former-Governor Frank O.
Lowden of Illinois, Sir Josiah Stamp, British eco-
nomist, Claude G. Bowers, John W. Davis, and Dr.
John H. Finley, editor of the New York Times. A
strikingly large number of influential leaders in all
phases of national life have visited the campus and ex-
perienced the genial hospitality of President and Mrs.
Gaines.

Under the immediate direction of other depart-
ments of the University, but fostered and stimulated
by President Gaines’ cooperation, Washington and Lee
has been host to two Institutes of Business Affairs and
several journalistic conferences. The American Boy
Issay Contest brought essays on George Washington
from over 5000 high school boys written from material
furnished by Washington and Lee. Both the 1932
Fancy Dress Ball and the Washington Celebration were
broadcast over national hook-ups.

The full time of President Gaines might justly
have been occupied during the past two years in the
preparation and delivery of the addresses that he has
made before various distinguished groups from New
York to Louisiana. Addresses characterized by a thor-
ough grasp of the subject and a winning felicity of
expression have been delivered on educational, religious,
and literary subjects; and during the Washington Bi-
Centennial year much emphasis has been laid on George
Washington’s contribution to education through his
endowment of Liberty Hall Academy.

With unclouded eyes and light hearts those who
love Washington and Lee face the years stretching
ahead during which the high promise given by Presi-
dent Gaines’ two and a half years here shall be fulfilled
under his leadership.

Lee’s Death 62 Years Ago

A BRIEF and impressive service was held Wed-
nesday morning, October 12, 1932, in the Lee Chapel
in commemoration of the death of General Robert FE.
Lee, October 12, 62 years ago.

After a prayer by Rev. William W. Morton,
President Francis P. Gaines read the resolutions pre-
pared at the time of General Lee’s death by Hon. John
Randolph Tucker on behalf of the faculty of Wash-
ington college. The service closed with the hymn
“How Firm a Foundation,” well known as Genera!
Lee’s favorite, sung by the Glee club of Washington
and Lee University.

 

 

R. T. Surevps, JR., 32, is now studying medicine
at the Harvard Medical School.

[ 10

Mi Aree: Ao Ze is Na eB

Gaines Addresses Meetings

Dr. Francis P. Garnes, president of Washington
and Lee university, will address the assembly of the
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the
Southern States at their thirty-seventh annual meeting
in New Orleans, December 1, 1932. His topic will be,
‘Imperatives in an Educational Crisis.”

Following his address in New Orleans, Dr. Gaines
will leave for Birmingham, Alabama, where he will ad-
dress the Howard Institute for Adult Education on the
influence of the depression on educationr The meeting
will be conducted as an open forum under the auspices
of local newspapers, and several Washington and Lee
Alumni will be present.

The president also addressed the Eastern Carolina
Teachers Association in Fayetteville, N. C., on No-
vember 16, 1932. His subject was ‘Interrupted Tra-
dition,” in which he pointed out that the depression had
placed great stress on the traditional educational sys-
tem of the country.

 

Changes at the “Beanery”

ALUMNI who take The Ring-twm Phi must have
read with a start, the recent feature story carried in
the school paper announcing the employment of wait-
resses in the dining hall, commonly called the ‘“Bean-
ery.”

This encroachment of women into the sanctity of
the Beanery was brought about in an effort by the
present management to increase business.

And what would appeal to the students the most?
That’s right. And so in came the waitresses, qualified
hy some semblance of beauty for the job.

Students who for years have earned part of their
expenses by waiting on tables are still around, but
then who notices them now? ‘Their duties have been
lightened and they are still fed.

This was all caused when it was decided by the
athletic association to allow an outsider to try and
make a success, from the financial standpoint, of the
dining hall this year.

The new management has reduced the price of
meals, meal tickets and increased the hours of service.
You are now able to get meals as late as 10 o'clock at
night and any time during the day from 7 in the morn-
ing.

The new waitresses, already dubbed the ‘Beanery
Queens,” are on duty during the rush hour of the
three important meals of the day.

No, it is no more the “ole Beanery,” but rather a
coffee shop.

]

A oie ee oS

Strong Defense
Spe l‘ighting Generals, aided by a surprise

passing attack and stubborn line defensive
play, placed a crimp in the Universty of Virginia’s
Homecoming celebration by defeating the Cavalier
eleven, seven to nothing, in the Scott Stadium before
eight thousand people. The Generals’ first victory
of the season came as a result of an 80-yard drive,
62 yards of which were gained in the air.

SCORE LATE IN SECOND QUARTER

After holding the Cavaliers within the twenty
yard line twice in the

I

Meee CUA GS

Downs U. of Va.

The Washington and Lee line, continuing the
great defensive play that it had been displaying the
past several weeks, broke through the Virginia line
and smeared their backs for a total of one hundred
and five yards loss. On many occasions they hurried
Johnson, star Virginia passer, and he was forced to
throw the ball short or wide.

One hundred and seventy-nine yards were gained
from scrimmage by the Virginia team, while the Blue
and White pushed the ball forward one hundred and
twenty-two vards. Virginia made sixteen first downs;
Washington and Lee

 

first the
Generals drove them

back from the four

quarter,

yard line to the six-
teen in two downs
toward the middle of
the second quarter.
Here they took pos-
of the ball,
after a Virginia pass
the goal and
started the eighty
yard drive down the
field that culminated
in the winning score.

session

over

Mixing consist-
through
the line with a strate-
gic pass the Generals
the ball to
the 45-yard line. Here,
and flipped a lateral to Seaton, who was running to one
side. After drawing in the defense, Seaton passed the
ball 25-yards into the hands of Charlie Smith, who had
eluded the Cavalier’s secondary defense men. Smith
caught the ball on the run, and covered the remaining
thirty yards to the goal line, outdistancing two would
Mattox was inserted into the

ent gains

pushed
Jones took a pass from center,

be Virginia tacklers.
game, and converted the extra point.

VIRGINIA AERIAL ATTACK STOPPED

During the game the ball was in the enemy’s hands
a majority of the time, and it was the strong goal
line stands and excellent pass defense that chiefly con-
tributed to the Washington and Lee victory. Virginia
tried 26 passes; completed five; and had five inter-
cepted.

 

Charlie Smith, end, and Bill Seaton, quarterback, the sophomore pass-
ing combination that scored the touchdown that beat the Cavaliers

made six. ‘The Gen-
eral swere penalized
on only three occa-
sions for a total loss
of forty-five yards,
and the Cavaliers
penalized for
losses totaling over
one hundred yards.

were

CAVALIERS
THREATEN EARLY

Washington and
Lee kicked off to
the Cavaliers, who
took the ball on their
thirty-five yard line.
Three first downs in
succession placed the
ball on the nineteen
vard line, where the Fighting General line made its first
big stand and captured the ball on the fourth down.
Sawyers punted, and Virginia started its passing attack.
After several vain attempts, the Virginians completed a
21-yard pass from Johnson to Stevens which placed the
ball on the Generals’ 39-yard line. Mixing off-tackle
plays and line thrusts, the Virginia running attack func-
tioned for the moment, and they carried the ball to the
sixteen yard line, where Bolen, star General guard who
is making a bid for an all-state berth, tackled Stevens
for no gain on a fourth down, and the ball changed
hands. Sawyers again punted, but Johnson completed a
long 50-yard pass to Shippley who was downed on the
W. and L. fifteen yard line as the quarter ended.

GENERALS SCORE

The Blue and White line made its third stand,
and recaptured the bail, but a poor punt and a fifteen

[ 11 ]

LD a A... Jgteeee a. IN

yard penalty placed Virginia on the twenty yard line
with the ball in her possession. Johnson gained seven
through center on the first play; Stevens took a lateral
on the next play and ran it to the four yard line, to
make it first down and the goal to go.

On the next two plays, the Washington and Lee
line displayed the best football of the entire game and
drove the Virginia backs back for losses on each occa-
sion leaving the ball on the sixteen yard line. John-
son passed over the goal to give the ball to the Generals
on the twenty yard line. From here they started their
eighty yard touchdown march.

VIRGINIA DESPERATE

‘rom then on the Virginia team worked desper-
ately to push over a score, but with the exception of one
occasion late in the third period when Sawyers inter-
cepted a pass on the eighteen yard line, they were held
close to their own forty yard line, during the entire
third period.

The fourth quarter opened with the ball on Vir-
ginia’s forty-five yard line. They pushed it to the
Generals’ fifteen, and threatened to score, but a major
penalty sent them back down the field, and Shippley
punted over the goal line. Virginia tried five of those
desperate last minute passing efforts in the remaining
two minutes of the game.

The Lineup:

Washington and Lee (7) Virginia (0)

peer Wate sia 2. Sie DRE 1 Ka le es cae, See Condon
PINON EMER 82 ln Bo BEE? thth. oak PROeE ee Poss
SRORCIEIS 20. wlewhs aha 'easw gs. | RG 6.585 ee Sh Tompkins
COCOA Fh oe i aed a oe he ti at Reiss (C)
Reus bias ioc Ge oe 6 cere Se aa POs rate Dial
Se M Coa rc. ce ore te ee Ske sci c eaineedcns 3 34s Wk Burger
ON oc. a er a Lain ics ote head Ce oe Wager
DMRS Poe abil oo ieee RR Be gh oe Shippley
SAW GUS yc. cee ee SOM, id ste chk Johnson
SRNR se a eae ERED bcc i's kit ogi cakacks- Stevens
BARE ites er, Gah ss bused fp EAI OE © no Berger

Substitutions: W. and L.—Pride, Martin, Smith, Moso-
vich, Todd, Carman.

 

Gisson B. WirnHerspoon, LL.B. ’27, Meridian,
Miss., is district legal representative for the U. S. F.
& G. Co., Ocean Accident and Guaranty Co., and Fi-
delity and Guaranty Fire Corporation. Specializes in
insurance and commercial law, vice-president of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce; 32 degree Mason,
Shrine and Lions club.

 

THORNTON W. ALLEN, ‘13, has just been com-
missioned to write the new football song for the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill.
“The Tar-heel Battle Song.”

It is called

I

Mics AS Zi Me

John A. Graham, Composer

WASHINGTON AND L&E alumni invade many fields,
but rarely that of music. Tor this reason we are par-
ticularly proud to announce that a book of musical com-
positions by John A. Graham is just off the press.
This volume, entitled, Madrigals, Carols and Folk
Tunes, is published by the Madrigal Club of Lexington,
Va. It contains thirteen numbers written for a cap-
pella chorus of mixed voices. Among these are num-
bers which have already met with success on programs
of the Washington and Lee Glee Club and one num-
ber which is soon to appear on a program of ‘The
Westminster Choir at Princeton University.

John Graham is only part of the Romance Lan-
guage depeartment at Washington and Lee, but he is
the whole Music Department. Since music is not in-
cluded in the curriculum, there would be a great lack
on the campus were it not for him. Every musical or-
ganization we have was either founded by him or has
been under his direction at some time. For the past
few years he has devoted all his spare time to develop-
ing the Glee Club. This organization now has fifty
members and although the boys still enjoy singing
typical glees, the best composers are represented on their
programs. Last year they gave joint concerts with
the choral clubs of Hollins and Sweetbriar at Hollins
and Sweetbriar and also sang in Roanoke, Richmond,
and Lexington. ‘This year their schedule is even more
ambitious.

The Washington and Lee Library has charge of
the sale of Madrigals, Carols, and Folk Tunes. Miss
Blanche McCrum, Librarian, says that the book is
being well received not only by alumni and friends of
the University, but also by musicians of distinction
throughout the country.

 

November 18, 1932
Mr. H. K. Young, Secretary,
lexington, Virginia.
Dear Sir:

[ inclose you my check for $2.50 to renew my
subscription to the Alumni Magazine. I thank you
for calling my attention to the fact that it had expired ;
while it is has been fifty one years since I was a stu-
dent my interest in the University has in no sense
abated.

Yours truly,

H. A. Warkin, ’81

 

IMUGENE SEAL, law ’27, of Meridian, Miss, was
married during the past summer and is county attorney
and enjoying a successful term of office in this capacity.

[ 12 |

T H E > A Me ON

I

MM: Aes, A 24 FON ff

Freshmen Have Good Football Season

By DeForest CLARK

(TH a 6-0 win over the University of Maryland
freshmen, the Washington and Lee freshmen
gridders closed one of the most successful seasons in
recent years in tie position for state honors with fresh-
men teams from V. P. I. and the University of Vir-
ginia. The Virginia yearlings came to Lexington and
took a hard fought victory from the Brigadiers in the
closing minutes of the game by a score of 28-25.
Coach Cy Young was gifted with some excellent
material this year and conditioned his men into a well
organized team, both offensively and defensively. The
backfield was unusually strong and boasted a deadly
passing attack through the clever handling of the ball
by McFadden, quarterback. Arnoid, who did not play
in the Maryland game due to an injury received in the
game against Virginia, proved to be a snappy carrier
of the ball and made several spectacular runs during
He will be of great help to the Big Blue
Bailey, Simmons, Pette and Wilkinson
were also outstanding in the backfield. ‘The Brigadiers
line held well all season and was a powerful defense
Bonino, Gumm, Seitz, Mclauren,
Murphy, Ellis, and Mower were mainstays most of the
season and caused their opponents plenty of trouble

the. season.
next season.

to every team met.

The season was opened when Greenbrier Military
Academy traveled to Lexington and was defeated in the
closing minutes of the game, 19-13. An aerial attack
in the last period paved the way for the scant victory.
Although the Brigadiers had only had four days of
practice before the opening game, they played heads up
football and took advantage of the breaks. After los-
ing to the Washington and Lee freshmen, the Green-
brier team went through the remainder of their season
undefeated. Scores over their opponents ran up as
high as sixty points.

The second gamé for the Brigadiers gave them
their first victory over the William and Mary freshmen
team in several years. The Little Indians scored a
touchdown in the first minute of the game when Yerkes
raced 93 yards. The Brigadiers settled down to busi-
hess after that and it was not long before 15 points had
heen rolled up by two touchdowns and a safety. It was
a decisive victory for Cy Young, former freshman
Coach at William and Mary.

The Brigadiers next traveled to Blacksburg where
they met the V. P. I. yearlings. J. Arnold proved to
he the star of the game and accounted for two touch-
downs that brought the third victory by a score of

13-6.
yards while the
Virginia game played at Lexington was the most excit-
ing of the entire season. The Wahoos entered the
game as the slight underdog and the Brigadiers were
favored to take the battle and cinch the state champion-
ship. The Brigadiers got off to a two touchdown lead,
but in the last half, the Wahoos came onto the field
newly inspired and reversed all the dope to eke out
a 28-25 victory. Many long runs featured the game.
The final contest was played at College Park where
the Brigadiers met the Maryland freshmen, and de-
feated them 6-0. The lone tally came after a long
march down the field aided by Simmons who finally
crashed over for the winning touchdown. From all
reports the Maryland frosh eleven was one of the

His runs were both impressive, one netted 25

other was 45. The University of

largest and strongest in this part of the country. Their
one attempt to score was pushed aside when a long
pass went into the end zone and the Brigadiers took the
ball.

Cy Young is Basketball Coach

By WALLACE WERBLE

 

Harry K. (Cy) Younc, alumni secretary and
freshman coach, has been appointed varsity basketball
coach by the Athletic Committee to succeed Ray Eller-
man, who coached the Generals for the last two years.
Cy Young has been coaching freshman basketball and
football since the fall of 1930, and was one of the most
outstanding General athletes in the history of Wash-
ington and Lee.

The new basketball coach is the only man who has
heen captain of four Washington and Lee major sport
teams, having starred in football, basketball, baseball,
and track from 1913 to 1917. In 1913 and 1915 he
led the football team in scoring, and in 1917 he led
the basketball team in scoring.

The year he captained the football team, the Gen-
eral gridders were the undisputed champions of the
South, and the year he led the basketball team (1917)
the Blue and White court squad also won the Southern
championship. He also participated in baseball and
track, having batted .362 to lead the 1915 team, and
having run the one-hundred vard dash in nine and four-
fifths seconds. ‘This makes him one of the three co-
holders of the University record.

Mr. Young came to Washington and Lee after

[ 13 ]

ke A eee Mt IN

I

Wi es AL ORY SN ee

 

serving two years as freshman coach at William and
Mary. His Brigadier Generals have done well. In
1930 the freshmen were undefeated in basketball, and in
1931 they lost but one game. The 1931 freshman foot-
ball team lost only one game, but won the state cham-
pionship; the 1932 team also lost a game and tied for
the mythical state title.

He is a member of the Alpha Tau Omega social
fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership
fraternity, and belonged to Sigma, senior society. His
presence on the campus has been a main factor in
maintaining the Washington and Lee fighting spirit,
and his speeches at assemblies and pep rallies are
always the high lights of those occasions.

 

Dr. Tucker Resigns

Dr. R. H. Tucker's work on county government
probably failed to impress the great rank and file of the
people of Virginia. It was not spectacular. It was
done without any fanfare of trumpets. He made no
rousing addresses to stir the voters to a high pitch of
enthusiasm.

But it was, nonetheless, a monumental work. | His
report to the general assembly of 1932 has been ac-
cepted throughout the country as a model of what can
be suggested for the improvement of county govern-
ment. Much of it received favorable action. ‘The
bulk of it, however, remains as unfinished business.

Because of his very important duties as dean of
Washington and Lee University, Dr. Tucker has found
it necessary that he resign chairmanship of the com-
mission on county government. ‘Thus he severs once
again, as he did after organizing the industrial com-
mission and placing it on a working basis, his official
connection with the state. His going will be widely
regretted. He proved himself to be a public servant
of unusual worth... . .

This matter of county government is one of the
most important now facing the state. Here is absorbed
most of the waste in public monies. The system is out
of date and inefficient. It was fashioned for the horse-
and-buggy age. ‘To modernize it is the part of a real
statesman.

Calyx Wins First Place

THE Calya, annual of Washington and Lee, was
awarded a silver cup as first prize in its class, by the
Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association at its sixth
annual convention held at Farmville. The Ring-tum
Phi received a certificate denoting second place in the
class A newspapers.

 

Alumnus Gains Important Post

A graduate of Washington and Lee, Greenbury
Simmons, of the class of 1925, was elected in Wash-
ington, October 11, to be national chairman of the Na-
tional Junior Bar association for the ensuing year.
This is an organization for members of the bar 35 years
of age or under, created to establish a better under-
standing among the younger members of the bar in all
sections of the country.

Simmons was graduated from the Washington and
lee school of commerce in 1925, and took his law at the
Harvard law school. While attending here he was a
member of the track team, setting a record for the
indoor broad jump. He was also president of the
Graham-Lee society in 1923. Last year he was elected
temporary chairman of the organization committee for
the Junior Bar association.

Among the other Washington and Lee alumni
who served on the committee were: J. K. Thomas, ’25;
C. H. Wilson, ’26; and G. S. Wilson, ’25, all of whom
were prominent in school affairs while here.

 

Democrats

WASHINGTON AND LEE is well represented in the
number of those swept into office on the wave of
Democratic supremacy in the recent elections in West
Virginia.

J. Kay Tuomas, LL.B. ’26, was elected to the
State Legislature from Kanawha County. Kay will
be remembered as one of the best ends to play for
Washington and Lee. He was captain of the victorious
Generals of 1925. While in school he was a member
of the Athletic Council, O. D. K., Phi Alpha Delta,
“13” Club, White Friar, Cotillion Club and Sigma. He
was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity. Since
graduation he has practiced law in Charleston.

Jok BLAcKBURN Warts, LL.B. ’12, elected prose-
cuting attorney for Kanawha County. Black was a

baseball player of parts on the 1909 team. He was a
Phi Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Phi.

JosEpH M. Hort, LL.B. ’29, elected prosecuting
attorney for Greenbrier County, W. Va. Brother of
Rockie, elected attorney-general for the State of W.
Va. Phi Kappa Psi, Phi Beta Kappa, O. D. K., Phi
Delta Phi, Alpha Kappa Psi, Sigma. He has been
practicing law in Lewisburg.

 

JAmMEs C. AMBLER, ’16, Front Royal, Va., was a
delegate to the National Democratic Convention in
Chicago.

[ 14 ]

Ai: Lit See ee ON

I

Mi Ate A 2: Tt ome se

 

Winter Sports at W. and L.

By W. S. BARKER

(TH the football Washington

and Lee’s indoor sports’ teams have already

season over,
commenced to get in trim for the winter months.
The basketball squad under the direction of a new
coach and old friend, Harry K. (Cy) Young, °17, coach
of freshman athletics and alumni secretary since 1930,
draws the most student interest, but wrestling and box-
ing, which have come into prominence in the last few
vears, are pressing the court game hard for the spot-
light. Swimming, though still officially rated a minor
sport, has a large number of enthusiastic supporters,
who hope to see a repetition of last year’s champion-
ship performance in the water.

Since his return to Washington and Lee a little
more than two years ago, Cy Young has had almost
success with his freshman basketball
teams which have suffered only a single loss in the
The varsity basketball teams have
not been so successful recently, but followers of the
game at Washington and Lee are looking for a return
to the successes of the seasons of four and five years
ago.

Coach Young will be working almost entirely with
men who have played under him before, for all mem-
bers of the squad with the exception of Holbrook,
Jarrett, and Violett, are sophomores and juniors who
were under his direction as freshmen basketeers. Jar-
rett and Holbrook have been regular forward and
guard respectively for two seasons, while Violett saw
fairly regular service as a guard last season.

sesides the three veterans mentioned those out at
present are: Lefty Saurbrun, a reserve last year, and
Nash, Turner, Fields, Fitwilson, Corwith, and Mathes,
all members of last year’s freshman team.

l‘ootball men who reported after Thanksgiving are:
Joe Sawyers, forward, and Scotty Mosovich and Billy
Wilson, guards, all of last year’s varsity; and the fol-
lowing sophomores: Jones, Henthorne, Smith, and
Seaton.

phenomenal

two seasons of play.

The basketball schedule is shorter this year than
usual. Fourteen games and the Southern Conference
tournament comprise it. Of the fourteen five will be
played away from Lexington. ‘The season opens on
January 6 against St. Johns in Doremus gymnasium,
lexington.

The wrestling team is the hardest hit of any by
loss of men. Graduation depleted the heavier ranks
by taking Pat Mitchell, Tex Tilson, and Joe Wright,
and the failure of Dynamite Evans and Nelson Thomas

to return to school was an unexpected blow, robbing
the team of its best strength in the lightest divisions.
Osterman, 135-pounder and captain of last year’s
team, also was graduated last June, leaving monogram
men in only two weights, Harvey Smith, and Pritchard,
who grappled at 145 last season, and Cromwell Thomas
at 155.

Last year’s undefeated freshman mat team has
sent a number of good men up to the varsity squad
this season to help defend the Southern Conference
crown. But some members of that team are missing,
leaving several bad gaps for Coach Mathis to fill.
Roland Thomas and Sarkis can be counted upon to
hold down the 119- and 135-pound posts in good style.
and Kuffner looks like a good bet at 175-pounds, if
his football injuries heal properly. Cross, another soph-
omore, will probably wrestle at 165 pounds. Condi-
tions in the heavier weights can better be determined
after Thanksgiving, when Amos Bolen and Wofford,
squad members last year, are released from football
duties. Along with Ruffner, DeVan and Brennan are
the only heavy men working out at present.

While the grapplers struggle along under their
handicap of lost men, the boxers are practicing with-
out a coach, until Tex Tilson switches his interest to
them at the close of the grid season. The leather-
pushers are taking their early workouts under the di-
rection of monogram men Eddie Mincher and Jim
Pound. Only three members of last year’s team are
missing and there is an abundance of good material to
fill the vacancies. Cleveland, a sophomore, is being
groomed to take the place of Robinson at 119 pounds,
while Martin, who alternated with Tilson last year, and
Carmen, a member of last year’s freshman team, will
both be ready to offset the younger Tilson’s loss at the
heavyweight post. Football claimed the interest of these
two until Thanksgiving, as it did that of Nace Collins,
regular 175-pound, fist-slinger last year. Other veter-
ans who have returned are Seraphine and Farmer at
135, and Tucker, 125 pounds. The third missing
veteran is a 135-pounder, Jack Srulowitz.

The loss of four monogram men will be seriously
felt by the swimming team in its bid for another un-
defeated season, but Coach Twombly has several sopho-
mores upon whom he is depending to add materially
to the team strength. Chief among these is McDavid,
who set a 100-yard record for the Doremus gym pool
in a recent varsity-freshman meet. ‘Two veterans who

[ 15 ]

3. ee A ML IVES IN

Mime G.. 4: 2 (42. 3 ae

 

will help McDavid uphold the General natators in the
dashes are Rivers and Moreland. ‘Two of the mis-
sing four from last year’s team are backstroke swim-
mers, Nichols, and Moody, who swam neck and neck
to win first and second place in almost every meet last
season. ‘Taking their places are a pair of sophomores
Glynn and Franklin. Competing in the dives will be
Martin, a transfer who was ineligible last year, and
three sophomores, Heatly, Weisel, and Todd. Walker,
a veteran of two years experience, will be kept from
diving this year because of an ear injury. The leading
distance man is Cohen, a veteran. Garrett, a sopho-
more will swim with him. Rhett and Berrien, also
sophomores, are Coach Twombly’s breaststroke swim-
mers.

The swimming team has not lost a dual meet in
the last three years and has taken the state champion-
ship three successive times. Washington and Lee's
ancient rival, the University of Virginia, has been
among the conquered in each of these three unbeaten
seasons. William and Mary and Virginia are the only
teams on the schedule at present, but there is a possi-
bility that North Carolina University will be added.
The fact that many schools, including old rivals such
as Duke, have cut down on their athletic budgets at
the expense of minor sports, makes it difficult to book
teams of the desired caliber.

 

New Freshman Basketball Coach

FILLING Cy Young’s position as freshman basket-
ball coach is Cy Twombly, assistant professor of physi-
cal education, who has-been a member of the coaching
staff since his arrival at Washington and Lee in 1923.

Twombly’s regular job during the winter sports
season is directing the varsity and freshman swimmers,
in which he has met much success and has become rec-
ognized as the leading swimming instructor in the
South Atlantic area.

The last time Cy Twombly guided the freshman
basketball destinies was in 1930 when he produced an
outstanding team of players. Jarrett, Holbrooke and
Violett, who are starting their last year of varsity bas-
ketball competition, were members of the °30 quintet.

After swimming and basketball have ended, Cy
will help coach the baseball men. A former big league
player, his advice to the diamond men has been a great
aid to Captain Dick Smith, head coach of baseball.

 

CLauDE P. Licut, LL.B. ’11, who was recently
operated on at the Mayo Hospital, is recuperating
at his home in Martinsville, W. Va.

[ 16 |

Marriages
Jor G. Grass, *16, was married October 15, to
Miss Billie Bessie Hoffman. ‘They will make their
home at 433 W. Summit St., San Antonio, Texas.

 

J. Artincron Painter, ’30, was married to Miss
Virginia Thomas, at the bride’s home in Lexington, Va.,
on Saturday, October 1, 1932. They will reside in
Richmond, Virginia.

 

FREDERICK LYLE Sarres, B.S. ’23, was married
to Miss Katherine Elizabeth Backus, on Friday, Octo-
ber 14th, at Montgomery, W. Va. They will be at
home at 1706 McClung St., Charleston, W. Va.

 

IRANCES B. Witson, daughter of EK. Waring Wil-
son, "98, married Captain Robert Latane Montague,
U.S.M.C., son of former-Governor Montague of Vir-
ginia, on June 30, 1932. They will be stationed in
Haiti.

 

Horace Goocu, Jr., LL.B. °31, was married to
Miss Bradford of Plymouth, Mass., on November 4th.
J. A. Veech was best man at the wedding, with Roby
Sutherland, Alex Vance and Frank Bready as ushers.

They will make their home in Amarillo, Texas.

 

Wirt W. Donnatty, LL.B. ’25, was married to
Miss Dorothy Davis of Charleston, W. Va., on October
Sth. ‘They will make their home in Charleston.

 

    
   
 
   
  
  

INvITATION has been received in the alumni office
to the marriage of Fanning Miles Hearon, ’27, to Miss
Mary Baylies Brewster, on December 10, 1932, at
Lewisburg, W. Va.

Dr. Robert Granville Campbell

(Continued from page five)

 

He was a lifelong and actively interested Democrat,
member of the Presbyterian church, and a Maso
He belonged to the University Club and the John
Hopkins Club of Baltimore, the Collonade Club, Uni
versity, Virginia, the Authors Club, London, England
and the Lexington Golf Club.

He was the author of “Neutral Rights and Obliga

tions in the Anglo-Boer War,” which was published
in 1908.

 

ANNOUNCEMENT has been received in the Alumni
office of the opening of offices for the general practice
of accountancy under the name of Jackson, Goodman
and Caton. Meyer Lu Goodman, B.S. in Commerce
‘26, is a member of the firm.

A Li oA. we UN

I

M Aye A Z@ Te NB

Interest in Student Library Contest

Svs IY library contest held at Washington and Lee

Monday, May 16, brought to light the fact that
the book collecting game is not only being played,
but played very well by several students of scholarly
taste at this institution. The original idea of such
a contest was suggested by a generous alumnus who
wrote Dr. Shannon asking him to sponsor it, and of-
fering to contribute to the cause. Another friend of
Washington and Lee approved the plan, and a small
fund was collected, which, when supplemented by a gift
from the English department, brought the cash prize
available up to twenty-five dollars.

One alcove in the university was given over to
the display of books, and entries were made of the pri-
vate libraries of C. P. Lee, Carlyle Lynch, Tom Moody,
J. B. Magee, Alexander Sterling, and D. C. Thompson.
The requirements for entry were as follows: (1) The
library must be of books collected while at Washington
and lee, (2) The student must be prepared to indicate
some knowledge of the books in his library and the gen-
eral purpose of the collection, (3) Students in the con-
test must be available to the committee for questions
and explanations, (+) The award was to be made upon
the general judgment of the committee as to the best
student library. The committee for judging the contest
were President Francis P. Gaines, Dr. D. B. Easter,
chairman, and Miss Blanche McCrum. Dr. E. F.
Shannon, under whose auspices plans for the contest
were made, also served as judge. ‘The libraries were
on display for several days before the actual judging
took place on the night of May 16, and for a week after
that. [ach was shelved separately in cases marked with
the names of the owners. ‘The project called forth un-
usual interest from faculty and students, some express-
ing the hope that such a contest might be made an an-
nual event in the school year.

The judges based their decision on such points
as the actual knowledge of books shown by the student,
the breadth of interest in various fields of literature,
Concentration of interest in some one field, promise
for the future in the beginning of the library, fine
editions, purpose and plan of the collection, intellectual
curiosity behind the collection, and literary taste. It
is the opinion of the judges that each library examined
Was of genuine interest and worth. It could be said
of none that it was so far superior as to merit instant
selection. At least two libraries numerically smaller
than the winning one showed a high degree of know-
ledge or a particularly fastidious taste. However,
When the judges cast a secret ballot and this was count-

ed, it proved to be unanimous for C. P. Lee’s library,
the strength of which lay in its number of volumes, in-
telligent choice, and literary taste. The judges wish
to make honorable mention of the libraries of Carlyle
lynch and Alexander Sterling. “Mr. Sterling’s col-
lection showed very fine discrimination and breadth of
choice, its volumes ranging from the comedies of Aris-
tophanes to the modernistic format of Rockwell Kent's
N by E. It also contained a fairly full collection of
William Faulkner first editions. This library showed
very definite promise for expansion in the future, es-
pecially in the fields of fiction and drama.

The personality behind the collection was the strik-
The particular in-
terests of travel, antique furniture, outdoor life, and
mechanics showed the hobbies of the collector. ‘The
standard tastes of the conventional gentleman were
particularly marked in the choice of D. C. ‘Thompson.
A complete set of Stevenson, a nice group of essays, and
a fiction collection containing Austen, Scott, Thackeray,
and Galsworthy, gave quality to this library.

ing quality of Mr. Lynch’s library.

In the rather unique collection of ‘Tom Moody
was a first edition of Oliver Wendell Holmes’ Over the
Teacups (Riverside Press, c1890) with interesting
“points.” Mr. Moody was at the disadvantage of
having only a few of his books with him in Lexington,
and so submitted these along with a list of his actual
holdings.

Among the treasures of C. P. Lee, the winner of
the contest, appeared a first edition of Bleak House,
with illustrations by H. K. Browne, but lacking certain
points. The specialties of this library are its essays
and fiction. Katherine Mansfield and Christopher
Morley stand out as favorites in both fields, the former
with a few good “firsts.” Besides these, the collector
has not neglected biography, drama, and poetry. Some
items of Virginiana such as Wise’s End of an Era show
him not insensitive to his present milieu.

The judges feel that the contest has been an incen-
tive to some, and may have stimulated a desire for
ownership in others. It is a pleasant speculation that
there may be among these amateur collectors the flair
of a Newton or a Rosenbach.

 

Rospert I*. Howe, '28, who has been located at
Lynchburg, Va., with the J. W. Heald Co., for the past
two years, has returned to Arkansas and is in charge
of the Walton Milling Co., located at Stuttgart, Ark.

[ 17 ]

2. oe A Bie a

Intra-mural Sports

WASHINGTON and Lee’s third intra-mural season
under the direction of the Athletic department. is well
under way. ‘This new phase of college activity which
has been developed in the last two years through the
work of coaches Fletcher, Twombly and Mathis now
compares favorably with similar programs in any other
American college.

The twelve sports offered during the session offer
to every physically fit man in the University an oppor-
tunity to partake in some kind of athletic competition.
Besides the above mentioned coaches, the intra-mural
board is composed of three students, two fraternity
men and one non-fraternity. Violett, Kappa Alpha,
Everett Tucker, Phi Kappa Sigma, and Norbett Glad-
den, secretary-treasurer of the student body, were the
students chosen at the first meeting of the year made
up of representatives of the various organizations.

Changes have been this year in the eligibility rules
and scoring of team points in track. A man who was
on the freshman team last year is ineligible for intra-
mural competition if the varsity team in that sport has
not started its season.

Touch football again brought 300 men out in at-
tempt to win the championship honors for their club.
The Kappa Alphas met the Touring Tigers, non-fra-
ternity organization in the final round, defeating them
6-0. In reaching the finals, the K. A.’s defeated the
Alpha Chi Rhos in the semi-final round while the
Touring Tigers were beating the Pi Kappa Phis. Offi-
cials of the games were members of coach ‘Twombly’s
advanced hygiene classes.

The Kappa Alphas continued to hold their first
place in league competition when they took second place
in the swimming meet behind the Delta Upsilon fra-
ternity. Both the D. U.’s and the K. A.’s had the major-
ity of their points scored by one individual brilliant
frosh ‘swimmer. Fifteen teams entered men in the
nautical sport.

Horseshoe pitching has been going on since the end
of the touch football season and is near the final rounds
now. Thirty-four more men signed up for the old barn-
yard game this year than last year, 156 being entered
in the present contest as to 112 last year.

The remainder of the intra-mural program is com-
posed of wrestling, handball, volley ball, boxing, bas-
ketball, track, tennis, baseball, and golf.

 

C. H. McCain, ’20, kas moved from New York
city to Buffalo, N. Y., as general superintendent of
Wm. Hengerer Co., department store.
over two years old.

He has one son

I

Mm: ASG A wo 252 ee

eT

Elected Attorney-General

Homer A. (Rocky) Hott, president of the Wash-
ington and Lee student body in 1923, was elected At-
torney-General of West Virginia on the Democratie
ticket, November 8. He received his A.B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1918, and his LL.B. in
1923. |

Mr. Holt, now a resident of Fayetteville, W. Va.,
came to Washing-
ton and Lee as a
graduate of Green-
brier Military Acad-

emy. He secured
his A.B. in three
years, and served

as an instructor of
mathematics while
studying law. Dur-
ing the war, he saw
Fort
Monroe, Va., as a
lieutenant, and fol-
lowing his gradua-
tion from the law
school, he was pro-
fessor of law at
anc
Lee for two years.

Mr. Holt lo
cated as a practic

service at

Washington

 

 

 

Homer A. (Rocky) Holt
1925

mene

ing lawyer in Fay-
etteville in and since that time has become one
of the leading lawyers as well as political workers 1

the state. Prior to his nomination and election on
the Democratic ticket, he was Executive Chairman 0

his county organization.

Besides being president of the student body, he
was awarded his Phi Beta Kappa key and membership
in the Omicron Delta Kappa. While an undergradu
ate his other campus affiliations were: Phi Kappa Psi
Phi Delta Phi, Pan, Cotillion Club, Thirteen, Sigma
and Square and Compass. He married Miss Isa
Wood of Charlottesville, Va., and they have two chil
dren, Julia Kingsley, seven, and Isabel Drury, four.

 

J, W. Kern, ’20, superintendent of the Spring
field Division of the Illinois Central Railroad, spoke to
the Rotarians of Madison, IIl., recently explaining ho
truck lines harm industry. The Madison paper says
that Mr. Kern is a forceful speaker, used to appear
ing before large audiences and his address was well
received.

[ 18 ]

 

Mm Lis ae oe: ON

I

M: Aas A ZT NB

 

Close Contests in Campus Elections

N A GENERAL, election featuring the first

re-vote in the history of Washington and Lee

University, twelve men were selected for stu-
dent offices in the heaviest balloting in recent years.
Harry Fitzgerald, running unopposed, was elected presi-
dent of the student body. He is from Tulsa, Okla-
homa, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.
Last year he was president of the Troubadours and
business manager of Fancy Dress Ball. In addition, he
has played varsity baseball for two years. He is a
member of Pi Alpha Nu, “13° Club, Sigma Upsilon,
Sigma, and Omicron Delta Kappa honor societies.

With eight men running unopposed for offices,
student interest centered around a four-cornered race
for secretary-treasurer and the close fight for vice-
president. Carl “Happy” Vickers defeated Ted Curtis
for the office of vice-president by one vote in a re-
election that only fell short of the first ballot cast by
twenty-eight votes. There were 631 votes cast in the
first ballot. There was not a majority for any one of
two candidates and in the re-election 603 men returned
to the polls and elected Vickers vice-president by a
single vote.

Vickers is from Montgomery, West Virginia, and
a member of Lambda Chi Alpha social fraternity. He
is an intermediate student in the school of law.

Norbert Gladden, varsity track star of Flint, Mich-
igan, was elected as secretary and treasurer of the stu-
dent body.

George McClure of Dallas, Texas, a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma, was elected president of Finals.
He is a member of Sigma honorary society and served
as Junior manager of boxing last year.

rank Bailey of Huntington, West Virginia, a
member of Alpha Tau Omega, was elected president of
Fancy Dress ball. He has been active in athletics ever
since he entered the university, making major mono-
grams in football, basketball and track.

John Culley, from Evanston, Illinois, a member of
Phi Kappa Psi, was voted editor of the Ring-tum
Phi, as a reward for his service on publications for the
Past three years. Edwin Pewett of Jonesboro, Ar-
kansas, and a member of Beta Theta Pi, will act as
business manager.

Dick Edwards of Roanoke, Virginia, a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha, was elected Calyx editor. He has
been on the staff for three years and has also served
on The Ring-tum Phi. G. P. Goldenberg of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Was chosen business manager.

James W. A. Smith of Elizabeth, New Jersey, a
member of Lambda Chi Alpha, was picked to edit the
Southern Collegian. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon
and served as editorial associate on the Collegian last
year. Vic Tucker of Germantown, Pennsylvania, and
a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, was elected busi-
ness manager.

Russ Chase of Washington, D. C., a member of
Delta Upsilon, was voted head cheer leader, after serv-
ing as assistant for two years.

Men elected to the executive committee were:
senior class, Carl Bear, Phi Delta Theta, of Montgom-
ery, Alabama; junior class, Charles Pritchard, Pi Kappa
Alpha, of Durbin, West Virginia; sophomore class,
Alonson Brown, Jr., Beta Theta Pi, of Clayton.
Missouri; freshman law, Jack Ball, Phi Gamma Delta,
of Jacksonville, Florida; freshman class, John McFad-
den, of Kingstree, South Carolina.

It was necessary for the executive committee to
select a new president of the Athletic council to take
the place of Bert Evans, president-elect, who failed to
return to school. Donald K. Crawford of Beverly,
West Virginia, was elected to fill this position. Craw-
ford is a senior in the law school and a member of the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. He has been manager of
the Co-op for the past two years.

Other members of the Athletic council are: Har-
vey Pride, vice-president; John Henley, secretary-
treasurer; and Bill Wertz and Billy Wilson, members-
at-large.

 

Former Professor in Politics

Dry Republicans in a convention at New Haven,
Conn., recently, organized and gotten together by
Dr. Albert Levitt, named him as their candidate for
governor and nominated other state officials to make
an independent race against the regular Republicans
and Democrats this fall. They nominated Professor
Milton Conover, Yale political scientist, for United
States senator to oppose Senator Hiram Bingham,
Republican, and Representative Augustine Lonergan,
Democrat, both of whom favor repeal.

Dr. Levitt was a former member of the law fac-

ulty at Washington and Lee.

 

A. R. (RED) Hawkins, ’25, who last winter mar-
ried Miss Isabella ‘Todd, is employed as accountant for
the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., Inc., Kyrock, Ky.

[ 19 ]

A Sie MM CIN

I

Mi eeG A Bok Pe

H. S. Editors Gather at W. and L.

IGHTY representatives from eight states and the

District of Columbia attended the annual three-

day meeting of the Southern Interscholastic Press
Association at Washington and Lee, November 1/7,
18. and 19. Twelve silver cups were awarded to high
and preparatory school publications and two individual
prizes were given in Current Events and Journalism
Short Course contests.

Thursday, November 17, was set aside for regis-
tration. On Friday morning the convention got under
way in a session in Lee Chapel opened with an address
of welcome by President Gaines. This was followed
by a series of short talks by last year’s prize winners.
The Current Events contest ended this meeting which
was presided over by Prof. William L. Mapel, director
of the Lee School of Journalism. At 11 o'clock an
appropriate moving picture, entitled “Shorts”, was
During the running of this
An event

shown at the New Theatre.
film the journalism short course took place.
was staged by journalism students and convention dele-
vates competed in writing news stories about it. Ver-
non Grizzard, Knoxville high school, Knoxville, Tenn.,
won first prize in this contest. At 1:30 the ‘delegates
reconvened in Lee Chapel to hear an address by Pro-
fessor Mapel. At 2:30 group meetings began under
the direction of Miss Francis Lowell, editor of High
Life, Greensboro Senior high school, Greensboro, N. C.,
and Arthur F. Smith, high school principal at Lonacon-
ing, Md. At night the Quill and Scroll banquet in
charge of John Marshall high school chapter, Rich-
mond, Va., was held in the Robert E. Lee hotel. After
the banquet, Carl H. Claudy, free lance writer, spoke
to the delegates in Lee Chapel.

Saturday morning was taken up with the criticism
of publications entered in the contest. These were
divided into three groups, newspapers, magazines, and
annuals. Newspapers were judged by Professor
Mapel and John Culley, editor of The Ring-tum Phi;
magazines by Prof. O. W. Riegel, of the Lee School
of Journalism, and Richard B. Sale, of The Southern
Collegian; annuals by Charles Harold Lauck, Lee
School of Journalism, and Richard ‘T. Edwards, editor
of the Calyx.
according to the size of the school submitting the pub-
lication. Saturday afternoon the delegates were
guests of the University at the Maryland-W. & L.
football game. The final banquet at which prizes were
awarded was held in the University dining hall.
A White, president of the Michigan Press Club and

Each group was divided into four classes

Lee

on the editorial staff of the Detroit News, was the
speaker.

Winners of the cups were as follows:

Class A newspaper—Won by The Monocle, John
Marshall high school, Richmond, Va.

Class B newspaper—Won by The Chatterbox,
George Washington high school, Danville, Va.

Class C newspaper—Won by The Wildcat, Meridi-
an high school, Meridian, Miss.

Class D newspaper—Won by The Orange and
Black, Lonaconing high school, Lonaconing, Md.

Class A magazine—-Won by The Homespun,
Senior high school, Greensboro, N. C.

Class B magazines—Won by The Critic, EK. C.
Glass high school, Lynchburg, Va.

Class C magazine—Won by The Record, R. E.
Lee high school, Staunton, Va. |

Class D magazine—Won by The Taj, Harrison-
burg high school, Harrisonburg, Va.

Class A annual—Won by The Marshallitz, John
Marshall high school, Richmond, Va.

Class B annual—Won by The Critic-Crest, EK. C.
Glass high school, Lynchburg, Va.

Class C annual—Won by The Record, R. EK. Lee
high school, Staunton, Va.

Class D annual—Won by Facts and Fauncies,
Washington Seminary, Atlanta, Georgia.

Rk. Buford Brandis, Jr., of John Marshall high
school, Richmond, Va., won first place in the Current

 

 

 

 

events contest.

 

Birt Sutiivan, *14, who has been farming im
Craryville, N. Y., has returned to Brooklyn to make
his home.

 

Joun D. Mayuew, '26, who is now associated with
the Roswell Insurance and Surety Company and Ros-
well Building and Loan Association, Roswell, New
Mexico, has been elected secretary of the local Lions
club.

 

RAYMOND D. SmiruH, ’22, has resigned as treasure
of Vick Financial Corporation and is now associated
with Biggs Mohrman & Co.—this firm incidentally was
organized by John W. Pope who attended Washington
and Lee for a year or so about 1919. He went te
New York about 1921 and made quite a name for him-
self, and a fortune, prior to his death in November

1931.

[ 20 ]

 

- H&S Ae Ly Bae Mae N

a

Vacation in the Orient

(Continued from page four)

quently couples (this is modern China), enjoying the
scenery as they sip their ever-present tea. Before we
left Hangchow the pink lotus had come into bloom,
and the great patches of this wonderful flower greatly
enhanced the loveliness of the scene. Near the shores
of the lake are several well-appointed hotels, with
American prices.

Not far from Hangchow on the Grand Canal is
the smaller city of Kashing, the center of the silk-
growing industry. When we were there this industry
was so flat that some of the farmers were actually de-
stroying their cocoons, rather than to try to sell them
for next to nothing. Here we had two brief visits
with Dr. Frank Crawford, ’06, who has done a great
medical and surgical work there. The hospital, now
under Chinese management, is well equipped, and it
was interesting to see them using an excellent X-ray
Here is where Dr. Buckingham, °14, was lo-
cated several years. The boys’ school, founded I be-
lieve, by Mercer Blain, was doing fine work, and the
students seemed thoroughly imbued with the spirit of
patriotism. A pienic up the Grand Canal in a house-
boat used by the missionaries, among the rice-fields
and mulberry plantations and the ever-present Chinese
graves, gave us a delightful day in a very strange en-
vironment. Kashing was the only large city I visited
that seemed untouched by foreign influence. ‘The “Big
Street,” with shops on both sides, is so narrow that even
rickshas are not allowed, but how foreign ladies are
entranced by the silks and brasses and porcelains of
those shops!

machine.

In spite of the heat, James and I went up from
Shanghai to Nanking for a few days in August. The
trip up the Yangtze in a small but comfortable steamer,
her sides covered with steel plates in case of sniping
from the shore on the upper river, was very pleasant,
and with an electric fan going in our cabin, the nights
were not unbearable. ‘To our host, Dr. Frank Price,
long missionary pastor of the i.exington Presbyterian
church, we were indebted for a wonderful day of sight-
seeing, indeed the only day I really gave up to sight-
seeing while in China. We started early Monday
morning on foot, then took to rickshas, and wound up
as distances became greater, in an automobile. Nan-
king js being rapidly modernized and fine boulevards
are being built across the city, which must be eight or
ten miles from wall to wall. ‘The mission work there,
churches, hospitals, colleges and schools, is very ex-
tensive. My old acquaintance, Absolom Sydenstricker,
78, father of Mrs. Buck, the author of ‘The Good

I

Mix: A 2 Te +s

Karth,” died only last year, after having had a promi-
nent part in this missionary development for well nigh
half a century. Ginling College for women, with all
its buildings of the finest Chinese architecture, was
happily spared from destruction in the Communistic
invasion of. a few years ago, and possesses one of the
most beautiful college campuses in the world. On the
other side oi the city the stadium, built for Olympic
games, is a remarkable piece of work to find in China.
Not far from this we were delighted to find an old
temple, not described in the guide books and hence
not often seen by travelers, which presents one of
the finest and probably the oldest specimen of the
brick arch extant. In the same general region, not far
from the old Ming tombs, is the mausoleum of Sun
Yat Sen. It is on the side of a mountain and approach-
ed by a broad stairway, half a mile long, the approach
rather dwarfing the mausoleum itself. The architect
evidently had in mind the Lincoln Memorial in Wash-
ington, for the central feature of the mausoleum is
the seated figure of Sun Yat Sen, of heroic size. This
is the Mecca of Young China. Unlike most Chinese
cities, Nanking gives one an impression of roominess.

Shanghai, where we had a large house in the “Y”
compound for July and August, is a cosmopolitan city.
We were located in the ‘Frenchtown,’ where are a
large share of the best residences. ‘Ten minutes walk
(except that all walking in Shanghai is done by rick-
sha), brought us to the “International Settlement,”
while a little further away in another direction is one
portion of the Chinese city. We were four miles from
the Bund along the Wangpoo river, where most of the
large business houses and hotels are congregated. But
all over the city are shops, and in one large section of
Frenchtown one could well imagine himself in Lenin-
grad, so large was the proportion of Russian signs.
There is a very considerable Russian population in
Shanghai, mostly, I take it, of non-Soviets, who
find it a more comfortable residence than the U. S. S. R.
Streets are wide, and streets are narrow, the latter es-
pecially in Chinatown; one may ride in taxis, buses,
tramcars, bicycles, wheelbarrows, and even a few horse-
drawn cabs are on the streets. Generally if one has
only a block or two to go, one takes a ricksha, for
Shanghai is hot in summer. ‘Twice at night while we
were there, the thermometer did go down to 79
degrees, but by day, and especially downtown, it was
really hot. On the streets the thermometer seemed to
range from 100 degrees to 110 degrees much of the day,
but with plenty of water, one gets used to it. The
Wangpoo water is, of course, pretty largely sewage
but they have an excellent municipal filtering plant and
the water is in addition well chlorinated, so it is not

[ 21 ]

le A Tae. MM ON

I

  

Winco £#:¢9. 0° hae

 

as bad as it might be, and at all events it is wet! There
were about 3000 cases of cholera while we were in
Shanghai, but the death rate was less than 5 per cent,
while in Nanking with smaller population there were
many more cases and a death rate of some 30 per cent.
We had, of course, all been inoculated and had little
to fear.

In spite of the heat, Shanghai is a delightful place
in the summer, though most of the resident foreign
population go to either mountains or coast for the hot
weeks. It was the home of one of these residents we
were able to get for the summer. Amusements of
every kind were abundant. Several Coney Islands,
numerous air-cooled theatres, open-air
symphony concerts in spacious parks, many churches
on Sunday, including the Marines’ Church in the Cath-
ay theatre, with the Marine band for music and the
Marine Chaplain to conduct the services. The Y. M.
C. A. fills an important place in Shanghai life, as it
does all over China. Shanghai has a Chinese “Y”’, a
foreign “Y”, and a Navy “Y”. The latter, with its
excellent downtown restaurant and equipment, is quite
an American center and one is always sure of meeting
acquaintances there. ‘The week before, Francis Miller,
‘14, had been there on International ‘““Y” business, and
indeed had stayed a few days in the “Y’’ compound
where we lived, so we narrowly missed him.

movies in

I was in touch with quite a number of Washington
and Lee men located farther north, but missed seeing
them, as it was too hot to do much traveling in July
and August, and we wanted to stay at the Hangchow
College till the session closed the last of June. I was
sorry to miss Benj. Ancell, 95, at Yangchow, Houston
Patterson, °19, at Sutsien and his father, Craig Patter-
son, °87, Raymond Womeldorf, 17, at Hwaianfu, and
especially Ran Shields, ’98, at Tsinan, but these will
have to wait until next time.

On our way home we were particularly fortunate
in getting an unexpected glimpse of Japan, thanks to
Harry Myers, 94, long a very dear friend. Our steam-
‘er reached Kobe on Wednesday night and was not to
sail from Yokohama till Saturday afternoon. Dr.
Myers, who has been many years a missionary in Kobe,
met us at the steamer with his car and took us to the
Tokyo sleeper, giving us our only experience of a Jap-
anese pullman on a narrow guage railroad—comfort-
able but peculiar, as they seem to make little sex dis-
tinction in Japan. Changing cars at Tokyo early in the
morning, we traveled to Karuizawa, a summer resort
among the Japanese Alps. ‘This resort was first used
as a summer home by missionaries, but now is very
popular among the well-to-do Japanese. It is almost
on the flanks of Asama, a celebrated volcano, and the

[ 22 |

SS

  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
   
     
   

views are extensive and beautiful. We were taken
on a long drive to the lava-beds from an eruption of
nearly a century and a half ago, the lava still almost
bare of vegetation, though most of the slopes in the
vicinity are well covered with trees. Dr. Myers’ com
fortable cabin nestles on a charmingly wooded hillside
and bears the name of “Brushy Hill,” nor does it suffe
by comparison with Rockbridge county’s original. I
was sorry to miss seeing Dan Buchanan, ‘14, but he
had left Karuizawa only the day before. However,
we did meet many old friends there, though none from
Washington and Lee. A forenoon’s train ride down
the mountain and across the plains to Tokyo, an hour’s
drive about that interesting and very modern city, a
auto to Yokohama, and we were on our steamer, bound
for home.

On our journey out, we had been fortunate to have
an hour with Dr. James Vance, '96, at El Paso, and to
have breakfast with Dr. Albert McCown, °10, at Seattle
Returning we spent the night with Dr. and Mrs. Pol
lard at Evanston, where he is Health Commissioner
The next morning he showed us something of the
Chicago of today, including the new Exposition Build
I confess I am not educated up to the apprecia
I think I prefer the

ings.
tion of anything so modernistic.
charm of the old, old Orient.

“And How”

The following appeared recently in the Saturda
Evening Post:

 

LEGAL ACUMEN
John W. Davis, the distinguished lawyer, is th
head of a firm whose name, in its length and impres:
siveness, rivals the best of the old English establis
ments. In all its glory the firm is known as “Davis
Polk, Wardwell, Gardiner and Reed.” Besides the
gentlemen there are numerous junior partners.

One client, who evidently contracted writer
cramp from penning this imposing array of names, ré
belled one day and addressed his letter to Davis, Polk
Wardwell, Gardiner and Reed, and added at the enc
“And How.”

One of the juniors took this letter to Mr. Davis
thinking he might be amused. His chief, so the sto
goes, who had been deep in an intricate corporatio
brief, looked at the letter for a moment and then sai¢

“Splendid! I’m glad How has been promote¢
But I don’t seem to remember him. Has he been he
long?”

 

James R. Caskxik, ‘09, among other honors,
president of the Kiwanis club of Lynchburg, Va.

- Wow A LN

I

Mi Ate A Z@ TU £

 

——_

 

 

 

OBITUARY

JUDGE DANIEL H. CECIL

DANIEL H. CrciL, 79, a lawyer in Kansas City,
Mo., for fifty years, died Sept. 12th, at his home in
that citv. Many years ago Mr. Cecil served a term as
circuit judge and was known to his friends and asso-
ciates as Judge Cecil.

Born in Giles Co., Va., Judge Cecil went to Kan-
sas City soon after receiving his law degree from Wash-
ington and Lee. He married Miss Eva Calloway, who
survives him. Judge Cecil maintained an active law
practice until less than a year ago.

 

JUDGE ROBERT EWING, ’68

JupGE Ropvert wine, 83, former mayor of Nash-
ville, T'enn., and prominent in business and educational
affairs, died October 23, 1932.

Judge Ewing was one of the few survivors of the
University’s student body of immediately after the
Civil War when General Robert E. Lee was president.

Judge Ewing was initiated into Phi Beta Kappa
here June 8, 1931.

 

‘“McCRUM’S”

As Always The Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI
D> tase oS
AND
FRIENDS
Of
Washington and Lee

UNEXCELLED FOUNTAIN SERVICE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

[ 23 |

PITTSBURGH, PA., ALUMNI MEET

ALUMNI of Pittsburgh, Pa., held a meeting on
Saturday, October 29th, with the following men pres-
ent: Wm. George Gardiner, Wm. Gormley, Gault
David D. Johnson, Chas. Taylor Lile, Orange W. Rich-
ardson, Chas. P. Robinson, Sam Houston Showell. ‘B
Clyde Wjetzel, Arch Sproul White, all of Pittsburgh,
and Dr. T. V. Leatherman and Maurice J. K. Davis
of Greensburg, Pa. They expect to hold another meet-
ing in February.

 

RICHMOND, VA., ALUMNI MEET

Asout fifty Washington and Lee alumni met in
Richmond on the evening of October 3rd, at the Com-
monwealth club.

Those seated at the speaker’s table were: Dr.
Francis Pendleton Gaines, John Randolph ‘Tucker,
president of the Washington and Lee club of Rich-
mond, Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, former trustee of
the Alumni, Incorporated, Dr. W. L. Carson, trustee
of the University, Lt.-Governor James H. Price, and C.
H. Morrisett, State Tax Commissioner.

 

Ross L. MALong, Jr., ’32, is president of the Ros-
well, N. M. Young Democrat’s club of Roswell, N. M.

 

BOLEY’S
BOOK STORE

SPECIAL

Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x9, prepaid......$1.50

General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid...... 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid............ 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7x9, prepaid.......... 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

a 2 A Mow: M Nt Meee GS A ea Oe

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

cards in the directory. Rates on application.

THOS. F. OGILVIE GIBSON WITHERSPOON EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, °18-’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
LAW YER
204-208 Lawyers Building Douglas, Obear and Douglas
Atlantic City, New Jersey Meridian, Mississippi Southern Bldg., Washington, D. C.

 

BLANK & STOLLER, Inc. JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09_ PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
a eee be ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Alumni Magazine Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building
227 E. 45th St., New York Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

19 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Ill.

John H. Tucker, Jr., °10
Compliments of TUCKER AND MASON

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE LAW OFFICES
Se Serene Commercial National Bank Building
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
ARLT D. D L
Seal and Dice ere ee ae GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW | 7 ze Lewisburg, West Virginia
General practice in the courts of the Suite 301 Bank of America Building
District of Columbia and Federal ee
| H. B. Moore, Principal
Departments age 625 Market St., San Francisco, Cal.
Associate Income Tax Specialists J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Principal

Telephone EXbrook 0237
Tower Building, Washington, D. C. - ok 0

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

GENERAL AGENT

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia, Miami, Wisconsin, and
Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. ‘There are usually one or two openings for exceptionally
good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

[ 24 |

 

Rd Seyi SSeS
os Be Pia
War yes edl Zar
vi Loe A FAS)
Rie tyy ane
TAKS aes a ee
uJ Ho “We ny ‘ 4)

a
oe
ae

fae a

a} va
ee

2 Netter v4

S a Lae
a aie a

Ios is ar

ay kes Th a etre 7 oes “ 2
Be 1m heb ar Sha S Cr.
tec’ The: ee We aty AS Meo ;
Pas ea oe ar LW een AA el. var.
Fee ay ‘0 Sr Pe Sse 3, we Bier ini ie alg
ie Ri ae ety ae 2 Rist ts hay pr oas Pies a:
‘ hat, hg ae a Das YO oie 6 Ba tials
eV Aether iene Ae 4:

3 RS
ce,

7)
Oe wads a?
AAT, Py I rire o> Fi
AV a, Ws ats

a

eg Ber
4 wes
ser
f ry “ e AS i

a a te ao
Cas

One

sie
a Ng 7: es os se ie

Sa ot 14
nar} A AS
a
VaTy
a Pol pe sey

Niet mh

re ta, eo
aap oe)
ad A zh Os cane
a Abs Let
Yopoaps hele ie ee i
Pau a

4a Sh
ie. %
4
a aor

a

PNET
fore v3 oy Ca ad
eter’

ae re
Sry) oo ues
nt aah Pre.

* " po 3
a Ree eD Os
Ne: ue ek: f Sa : ,
cK ae Av Ash Se E RAPS cd otk Cita A ES ss
aa Pree: Sl ey hem Pa eat One ae A OS ah ; are
tA Le ies | > - AS phe rt . iD a > , Ot VAT Ra R Stats s
a : ny at a He C air fe he As OP A 7 v ‘
SOS t f * yar WS) a) my Pit Veet he ore, OAT Ae Ses Py nats As ty
ai eo Sad aan IPO? ae es so pM t PE, *. ‘a of f eos i. Fhe
" 2s NON A ek e28 bay z Yi * the se
opie t oe baie LEC! ae fo av AY
An « ; ee S SG. SANS
iy re oR ie
* yy a ei
hs oe ni
bv soouae at Os
per : yin ay

ia ea

ee rh al

) oe an
oe

ot
.

PSO
Be Be
ee
es

ska
- SS
PSEA GS
oN

RUCe UNA NCeTSRNUGSAUF NEED AN, i sh
Sai es BINS Dg RISC RUZ Ny eis Eat ay
PUG OER NOES RA A Yen Borah
Ney LON Se hinoaleriyy RevaonenyaTs
f, Ng i BieK 3 oh +e : ny s i % ay us its SSVI
nit 2 i ROME ALS Fue ea te eye th
YS S ° ay Sh : i Ay
ys aie ENE
i 3 Mae

o
B

a
vi

Ne
ara
a
af Heats ' rh
EN of, e tA ’ ‘J ‘ ¥ | .
, ; xe / HORNS Sarah

+s f
Nene:
ERE LOS

ays

me - Reva
re ue Fo o) ;

 

S45

a A in a »
SAG F
+ & ,

7

2
a

a

y« -

G

~

a
Ie Toda
ese8
Roe
eas

a

2% <

  

7

 

  

Fg Ott
abt ER

{rity as
Sy

  

    
     
  
    
  
 

Lot the do ae

o%,
io
a¢
i

 

 

 

ow

IN OVER eighty countries . .. no matter where
you may go, by land or by sea or by air... you
can always buy Chesterfields.

Their reputation for Mildness and Better
Taste is international. Just ask for the ciga-

rette that satisfies.

The cigarette that’s MILDER
The cigarette that TASTES BETTER

   
 

1932, LicceTr & Myers Tosacco Co.

Sailing Sailing, over the Bounding Main

9

Wherever you buy
Chesterfields,you get
them just as fresh as
if you came by our
factory door

 

 

