E LIBRARY
t UNIVERSITY

VIERC
D LEE

CHOOL OF ComW

S
WASHINGTON AN

Vol. XII, No. |

     
    

The
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Washington and Lee University

$2.50 a year

 

 

 

 

HOMECOMING DAY

Saturday, November 7
%

VIRGINIA TECH

VS.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

a
The Program

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6

3:30 p. m.—Freshmen vs. Virginia

7:30 p.m.—Pep Meeting—Gymnasium

8:30 p.m.—Semi-annual Meeting of Alumni Board of
Trustees

9:00 p.m.—Open House—all fraternities

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7

10:00 a. m.—Inspection of New Buildings
12:30 p. m.—Coffee and Sandwiches—Union Building
2:30 p.m.—Varsity vs. Virginia Tech

9:00 p. m.—Informal Dance (small admission charge)

Your friends will be here! Will you?

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association

Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.
Arkansas Association

James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little

Rock.
Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W, Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House
Charleston, West Virginia

C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 30 N. Michigan Avenue
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-

town, Maryland.
Dallas, Texas

Sam Kohen, Republic Bank Building.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,

Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Lathem, Florida National Bank

Building.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Carter Glass, Jr., Lynchburg News.
Louisville, Kentucky

E. A. Dodd, Louisville Trust Building.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Joe E. Birnie, 800 E. Main Street.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of Southern Cali-

fornia, Los Angeles.

St. Louis, Missouri

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Edmund B. Campbell, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September -15, 1924

 

 

Vol. XII OCTOBER 1936 No. 1
Editor inci ote a Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor...................... C. Harotp Lauck

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

FTORGOK......:.i::..0ha Dr. J. W. CLraupy, 1909
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
SOCTELBTY..0....0ccceece: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
LT TORSUIEOT v56ccec cd. M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Lewis F. Powe i, 1929
CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914
HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930

Kr WitiiaMs, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for October 1936

PAGE
The. President's Pamet iis ici catsaicic. css crt aac ae sal 3
The Opening of the IGQ@ir Sessiogy..:..:.....625....c.ccceckevesesctesceceee- +
Sixty-four Sons of Alumni Enrolled.....00000000000000000000. cece. 5
~ayven the Seventh Gemeration” .....iic.....0...cc.ccccccesccdveccostesscesees- 7
Doremus Estate Becomes Available...................000..cccccceccceeeeees 8
Our Remodeled University. Plant....:.....4:..00.2...cfisscscdeectess. 9
John Sorrells: From Carrier Boy to President ....................... 12
As.the; Genttals (5e 10 Battles. 5d seiedsecssistass.-. ostpusdd eceaes 13
Aibottt-the -F wteiee Saenerels 665 eS. 17
Chats With Your Friends and Mine..................0..0000cccee 21
RD. «5. i. ccs Ranctickais ss es ad eo 23

at
=
wy
~
v
S
=
~
v
v
—
s
2
8
=
°
~~
bo
5
=
ww
=
o
=
wv
8
bo
=
=
=
=
S
v
=

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Approaching An Idea’

(The President’s Page)

Qe worD ideal is a sort of elastic loveliness. Used

an in connection with our school, for example, it may
suggest compulsive influences from a great past, all of
the dedications and sacrifices of noble souls that forever-
more challenge us; or it may mean some secret
but dominant acknowledgement in our own
hearts, some quiet acceptance of obligation that
glows perpetually within the holy place of life,
as a white candle burns before an altar.

It may also imply a goal, an objective, a
high standard of competence, some attained ef-
ficiency wherein these mighty influences may be
worthily received, our own mighty purposes
worthily expressed. It is this more or less ob-
jective ideal that is before us, rather than
around us or within us, that I now think of in
connection with the stages of progress through
which we are passing. Perhaps an analysis of these stages
may be of interest.

I. THe PLant

Within a year, let us say between February 1, 1936,
and February 1, 1937, the University will be strengthen-
ed by improvements of plant that may be called notable.
As this period opened, the new Tucker Hall was made
available, a well-nigh perfect building for teaching law
on the scale which we propose. When the current aca-
demic session began, the school had as added physical
resources a Washington Hall, that while quite the same
externally is essentially a new building within, remodeled
and made fireproof, designed to incorporate the best of
new ideas in a structure that is still the old central unit
of the campus; there was a new section of Newcomb
Hall, constructed to match the rear wing of Tucker ; there
was a new stack section of Carnegie Library, protecting
in fireproof modes the priceless volumes; there was a
new Union building, standing on the old Alumni ground,
serviceable for the multitudinous student activities.

Before the present semester has passed, the two ends
of the old Washington College group will be completed.
These sections, now officially christened Robinson Hall
and Payne Hall (honoring the benefactor whose money
made possible the original construction and the benefac-
tor whose money made possible the reconstruction) will

be in use.
Il. ENDOWMENT

A mile-stone in our history was reached when the
University came actually into control of the Doremus

 

fund, assigned to us in the will of Mr. Doremus in 1913
but subject to a life interest for Mrs. Doremus, who
died September 20, 1936.

Endowment, the permanent source of income for Un-
iversity needs, has been pathetically inadequate
during the years of our history. Arbitrary
standards are never entirely trustworthy, but it
has been generally assumed that an institution
should have about five thousand dollars of en-
dowment for every student enrolled. Up to the
present, Washington and Lee has had about
one-third of this amount.

If the Doremus fund is not diverted to
other purposes, the endowment resources of
this institution will be enormously helped. It is
to be remembered, moreover, that the Payne
fund, used in construction of the new physical
improvements, is to be slowly restored to endowment by
means of an amortization plan. There is every reason for
joy in that our permanent funds have been, probably,
more than doubled.

Ill. StupENT ENROLLMENT AND SELECTION

The University enjoyed during this last spring and
summer more freedom in its privilege of selection of
students than it has ever known before. More applica-
tions came in, and the Committee on Admissions was
more independent in its judgments. So far as these
authorities can tell, the group of freshmen that entered
this fall was the best prepared group that has come to
our campus.

Another most encouraging development is to be noted.
The Committee deliberately cut the size of the freshman
class by about fifty men, and yet the enrollment for the
present session is as large as for last session. This fact
means that more of our old students have returned, that
we are making progress in conquering one of the real
difficulties we have previously known in the percentage
of boys who drop out after they have had some time here.

LV. STANDARDS OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE

To the opening session, Dean Tucker brought a
heartening message that emphasized the improvement in
scholastic work on the part of our boys. The number of
high grades is being increased ; the number of failures is
being reduced.

(Continued on page 8)

Le

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Opening of the 188th Session

By DEAN Rosert H. TUCKER

T THE opening of the session a year ago the predic-

tion was made that Washington and Lee was enter-

ing one of the most auspicious years in all its long
history. This prediction was fulfilled. Events have now
so shaped themselves that the same prediction can be
made with greater confidence for the coming year.

Elsewhere in this issue of The
Alumni Magazine the recent improve-
ments in the physical plant of the Uni-
versity are described in some detail. In
a short time the institution will bring
to completion the most extensive build-
ing and reconditioning program it has
ever undertaken.

Special interest centers naturally
around the new law building and the
remodeled Washington College group.
The new Tucker Hall is an unusually
attractive building, thoroughly modern
and complete in its appointments. The
buildings constituting the Washington
College group have been remodeled and
fireproofed throughout, but without
change in exterior or other departure
from the harmony of the earlier con-
struction. Substantial improvements
have also been made in Newcomb Hall
and the Carnegie Library, while a com-
modious Student Union building has
been constructed to replace the old
alumni building opposite the Washington Street entrance
to the campus. In all these changes no pains have been
spared to preserve the beauty and architectural harmony
of the campus.

Likewise significant progress has been made in the
internal affairs of the University. Student enrollment is
now 940, substantially the same as at this time last year,
despite the earlier decision of the University authorities
to limit the student body to 925. More applications for
admission were received this year, and more were declin-
ed, than for any previous session. The entering class is
thus somewhat smaller, but the difference has been made
up by the return of an exceptionally large proportion of
old students. This is a promising sign.

Scholastically the past year marked another advance
to higher levels of student performance. The general av-
erage of student grades was higher than it has been for

 

Dean Tucker

many years. More students than ever attained the Dean’s
honor list at the end of the year, while the number of
students falling under the automatic rule for failure in
their studies was exceptionally small.

These results are not accidental. They are attributable
to definite causes. Among these causes mention should be
made of better preparation and a more
serious attitude on the part of the stu-
dents, as well as more careful selection
on the part of the officials in charge of
admission. A contributing factor of
special importance is the fine spirit of
co-operation which exists between
teachers and students at Washington
and Lee.

This spirit of co-operation is defi-
nitely fostered by the faculty advisory
system which proved effective in the
freshman class and is now being ex-
tended to cover all the years of the col-
lege course. Early in his college career
the student is now required, in consul-
tation with his major professor, to for-
mulate a complete schedule and plan
of studies for the ensuing years. This
procedure serves to smooth out the
complexities of the college curriculum
and to provide the student with more
definite objectives than the mere at-
tainment of a college degree.

Equally important has been the growing sense of re-
sponsibility on the part of the students themselves. This
is evidenced by the ability and sanity which have char-
acterized the conduct of student government and student
affairs in general. It finds its highest expression in the
Honor System which, under student administration and
control, continues to be a living, potent force on the
Washington and Lee campus.

From the point of view of instruction, the year be-
gins under favorable conditions. Several able additions
have been made to the faculty. The curriculum has been
enriched by the introduction of year-courses in fine arts
and in the history and appreciation of music. For an in-
stitution like Washington and Lee, which properly em-
phasizes the cultural approach in education, such courses
have long been needed.

(Continued on page 18)

Pd

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

 

 

Sixty-four Sons of Alumni Enrolled

QUALLING the record established last year, the op-

ening of the 188th session saw sixty-four sons of

alumni enrolled in the University. Once again too,
sons of men who attended Washington and Lee com-
prised approximately ten per cent of the freshman class—
a percentage believed also to be a record one. Twenty new
men are found in this category, and forty-four are re-
turning old men.

Converging on J,exington from far and near, these
men represent sixteen states, Hawaii, and the District of
Columbia. States from which they have come are: Vir-
ginia, Kentucky, West Virginia, Florida, Texas, Mass-
achusetts, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Arkansas,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Missouri, North Car-
olina, and Nebraska.

Grover Batten, Jr., a sophomore, again wins the dis-
tinction of having come from the most distant point—
Honolulu, where his alumnus-father is stationed as an
army officer.

Commenting on the large number of sons of alumni
enrolled, Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of the Uni-
versity, declared: “It is a fine compliment to this insti-
tution when men who have themselves received life’s

training on this campus wish for their sons an experience
that runs along the same path.

“We are delighted, of course, to welcome to this cam-
pus any worthy and well-prepared boy, but I especially
hope that we shall always have a large element of sons
of alumni. Nothing about Washington and Lee, it seems
to me, should be more appropriate in preserving tradi-
tions than the fact that we have this year men who are
the third, the fourth, the fifth and even the seventh
generation of family connection with this university.

Along with this story are printed reproductions of
two photographs of this year’s entering group of sons of
alumni. The one above shows most of the whole group,
and the one at the bottom of page 6 shows most of those
in the freshman class. Those in the larger group are:

Son Father
John Alexander, Jr.....J. R. H. Alexander, 07, Leesburg, Va.
BOD Atlee Fiiiiviccsccccscssccses R. W. Arnold, ’08, Waverly, Va.
Fred Bartenstein, Jr.....Fred Bartenstein, ’08, The Plains, Va.
Grover Batten, Jr............. Grover Batten, 08, Honolulu, H. I.
Vaughan Beale................000. Ernest L. Beale, ’08, Franklin, Va.
Turnbull Bernard.......... D. M. Bernard, ’05, Jacksonville, Fla.
PRUNE SORBET eictticiteocecscocckicses J. M. Bierer, 08, Waban, Mass.
SRE Es con ccascccdubosbianiis J. M. Bierer, 08, Waban, Mass.
SSS SLOW; JE i Mis ccccasesincess Ed. Brown, ’11, Chattanooga, Tenn.

|

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John Campbell, Jr............. John Campbell, ’09, Lexington, Va.
Deverton Carpenter....J. C. Carpenter, ’08, Clifton Forge,Va.
George Chaney, Jr., George W. Chaney, Jr., "11, Roanoke, Va.

Thornton Cleek............ _G. W. Cleek, 712, Warm Springs, Va.
Herbert Clendenning...........ccccccccccccsssssssssssssssscscssscssesssessssssooceveces
Seth cotemsines Howard Clendenning, 08, Macbeth, West Va.
Bill Delaplaine................ W. T. Delaplaine, ’09, Frederick, Md.
NE i. cccapuinadacoricninncctineds H. A. Derr, ’10, Marietta, Ohio
TOG RIUM IT Givccsccvsccsquveeess J. T. Drake, ’89, Port Gibson, Miss.
Henry Drake............ H. W. M. Drake, ’97, Port Gibson, Miss.
Magruder Drake....H. W. M. Drake, 97, Port Gibson, Miss.
Willie Dunn, Jr....... William R. Dunn, ’07, Birmingham, Ala.
Tom Durrance.......... F. M. Durrance, ’09, Washington, D. C.
Bill Dwiggins............ Charles I. Dwiggins, ’10, Lakeland, Fla.
Jimmie Faulkner, Jr............. J. M. Faulkner, °17, Dallas, Tex.
Francis Foreman............ E. W. Foreman, ’13, Elizabeth, N. J.
PE PENT T 8 oc. ccchecéoccscee Powell Glass, 07, Lynchburg, Va.
James Gregory......Judge Herbert Gregory, ’11, Roanoke, Va.
Walter Guthrie............ F. P. Guthrie, ’11, Washington, D. C.
Harvey Handley, Jr........... H. A. Handley, 06, Omaha, Neb.
Bernie Harper, Jr............. Bernie Harper, 13, Fort Smith, Ark.
Kennedy Helm, Jr.....T. Kennedy Helm, ’95, Louisville, Ky.
Bob Hobson, Jr..........0000+ R. P. Hobson, ’14, Louisville, Ky.
Bob Holland, Jr............000+ R. E. Holland, ’14, Lexington, Va.
SE FOE vars iitkbicnttes.csscepcceee R. M. Hunter, ’86, St. Louis, Mo.

Bobby Hutcheson, Jr.....R. S. Hutcheson, ’10, Lexington, Va.
Robert Hutcheson, Jr.......cccccccceeeeeees

 

ae Judge Robert F. Hutcheson, ’10, Farmville, Va.
John Johnston..............cccccccscceses J. G. Johnston, ’11, Murat, Va.
BE EMETICK, JE ..cccceccccccccced A. R. Larrick, ’07, Plant City, Fla.
I ds kccscvacccocesesee *L,. M. LeBus, ’09, Lexington, Ky.
Pell Lewis, Jr............ Cc. P. Lewis, 12, St. Albans, West Va.
Joe Mighell, Jr...............ccccccsees J. R. Mighell, ’13, Mobile, Ala.
By ION vvececcccccccccsccccces J. L. Morrison, 99, Hazard, Ky.
Paul MOSrrisoni..........cccccccccssess J. L. Morrison, 99, Hazard, Ky.
Milton Morrison............00+ K. L. Morrison, ’05, Lexington, Va.
Hugh Macfarlane.......... Howard Macfarlane, ’13, Tampa, Fla.
Jim McCluer, Jr......... J. A. McCluer, 99, St. Petersburg, Fla.
Richard McCoy. .........cs00+ William A. McCoy, ’08, Fords, N. J.

 

Walter Pails ccotsstiscilbensdee Vivian Page, ’16, Norfolk, Va.
Heartsill Ragon, Jr.....Heartsill Ragon, ’08, Fort Smith, Ark.
TORR Bi Visstdicctivdents Ernest W. Ripy, ’98, Lawrenceburg, Ky.
Bruce Seddon, Jr..............0 Bruce Seddon, ’14, St. Louis, Mo.
William Steele........ Lawrence A. Steele, ’13, Brownsville, Pa.
Arch Sproull........ccc.c.ccccc W. W. Sproul, ’82, Middlebrook, Va.
Erskine Sproull...........0.0.0cccce *Hugh Sproul, 92, Staunton, Va.
Horace Sutherland............ Horace Sutherland, ’17, Galax, Va.
Souther Tompkins....Dr. E. P. Tompkins, ’88, Lexington, Va.
Stockton Tyler, Jr..........ccceees S. Heth Tyler, 96, Norfolk, Va.
Phil Williams, Jr............. Phil Williams, 710, Woodstock, Va.
SOT WEIRD cccsccsssecstesocee Larry Wilson, ’10, Greensboro, N. C.
*Deceased

Additional men who do not appear in either of the
pictures are:

iE, Seo Clarence Burns, ’01, Lebanon, Va.
OG PEW con ccccctaes Walter Hardy, ’04, Charleston, West Va.
James Shively, Jr............. J. H. Shively, 00, Houston, Texas
Murray Smith, Jr............. Murray Smith, ’05, Richmond, Ky.
Walter Steves..... Albert Steves, Jr., 06, San Antonio, Texas
BR ES Larry Wilson, ’10, Greensboro, N. C.

In the smaller picture, the sons of alumni in the en-
tering class this year, Bill Burns and James Shively, Jr.,
do not appear. The others in this group are:

Front Row: Ed Brown, Jr., James Gregory, George
Chaney, Jr., C. Pell Lewis, Jr., Joe Mighell, Jr., Richard
McCoy, Robert F. Hutcheson, Jr.

Mipp._r Row: James H. Bierer, James Faulkner, Jr.,
Horace Sutherland, Robert Hobson, Jr., Robert Hutche-
son, Hugh Macfarlane.

Back Row: Joe Hunter, Walter Guthrie, Willie
Dunn, Jr., T. Kennedy Helm, Jr., Philip Williams, Jr.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

“Even the Seventh Generation”

FAMILY connection with this institution spanning

seven generations—160 years—from the changing

of the name of Augusta Academy, the cradle of the
University, to Liberty Hall !—That is the record of Wal-
ter R. Guthrie, of Washington, D. C., who entered Wash-
ington and Lee this fall.

Walter is the fifth generation to be in attendance at
Washington and Lee, his earlier ancestors having been
connected with Liberty Hall and Liberty
Hall Academy as trustees. It is altogether
possible, however, that they too might have
been students at one of the institutions
which were later to become the present
University, since the records for those early
years are unfortunately fragmentary.

The first of Walter’s ancestors shown
in the University records are William Mc-
Pheeters, Thomas Stuart, and Samuel Lyle,
his great great great great grandfathers,
who were trustees of Liberty Hall, 1776-
82. Mr. Lyle was reappointed to the board
of trustees when Liberty Hall Academy was incorporated
by the Virginia Legislature in 1782, serving in this capac-
ity for many years, and also acting as treasurer from
1782 to 1783.

In 1784 his great great great grandfather, James
Ramsey was appointed to the Board, on which he served
until 1807, during which period the name was changed
to Washington Academy.

James Gamble, a great great grandfather and a native
of Augusta county, was the first member of the family,
according to available records, to be enrolled as a stu-
dent. He was in the class of 1808-09, while the institu-
tion was still known as Washington Academy. He sub-
sequently became a teacher and Presbyterian minister,
dying in 1867.

David Vance Gilkeson, Walter’s great grandfather,
also a native of Augusta county, attended Washington
College in the 1840's. He died in 1871.

Washington and Lee University awarded to Walter's
grandfather, Walter Craig Guthrie, the bachelor of arts
degree in 1882. Although like his predecessors a native
of Augusta county, he later moved to Port Gibson, Miss.,
where he became a prominent banker. He died in 1929.

The father of the student with this remarkable record
is Frederic P. Guthrie, now District Manager of R. C. A.
Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of the Radio Cor-
poration of America. Enrolled in the University, 1907-

   

Walter Guthrie, 1940

11, he held the White Scholarship and was awarded the

Santini Medal, receiving his A. B. degree in 1911. The

teaching profession engaged his talents for some years,
first at Germantown, Ohio, and later at The Citadel,
Charleston, S. C., where he was assistant professor of
Physics. He served as a lieutenant in the U. S. Naval
Reserves for twenty-eight months during the World
War, subsequently publishing “Communication Regula-
tions of the United States Navy.” Prior
to his present position with R. C. A., he
was manager of the Radio Department,
Division of Operations, of the United
States Shipping Board.

Young Guthrie is enrolled in the aca-
demic school and is pledged to Delta Tau
Delta social fraternity.

Epiror’s Note: While we hesitate to
call this record unique, it certainly is out-
standing. Perhaps, however, there are other
students with Washington and Lee ante-
cedents no less extensive and possibly in
even more direct line. If any alumni should know of a
situation comparable, it is requested that the information
be sent to the Editor of The Alumni Magazine or to the
Alumni Secretary.

 

New Location of Alumni Offices

IN ACCORDANCE with the policy of locating all ad-
ministrative offices in the remodeled Washington Hall,
the Alumni Office has been moved to the first floor of that
building. Forced by the inauguration of the reconstruc-
tion program last spring to vacate the historic structure
which had housed them for many years, the staff of the
Alumni association was located temporarily in a building
across from the Dutch Inn on Washington street.

Now, however, visiting graduates will find Harry K.
(Cy) Young, alumni secretary, and his secretaries, Miss
Mary Barclay and Mrs. Charles R. McDowell, in their
new quarters in the central building.

Headquarters will be maintained in this location at
all times except at Homecoming and Finals, when the
influx of such a large number of alumni would tax the
limited space of the office. On these two occasions, alum-
ni will be accorded a hearty reception at the new Student
Union—on the site of the old Alumni building, at the
corner of Washington street and Lee avenue. Here they
will find adequate facilities for their entertainment.

fer]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Doremus Estate Becomes Available

BECAUSE OF THE courtesy of an unknown student
nearly three decades ago, Washington and Lee will soon
have more than a million and a half dollars added to its
endowment. This money will be available to the Univer-
sity as soon as the estate of Mrs. Robert P. Doremus,
who died in New York City last month, is settled.

Under the terms of the will of Robert P. Doremus,
famous financier, who died in 1913, the bulk of his
estate was left to Washington and Lee, subject to a life
estate in favor of his wife. Although the estate, which
has been administered by trustees, was appraised prior
to the depression at $1,903,000, its present value is esti-
mated at slightly more than $1,500,000.

This large sum marks the second gift donated to
Washington and Lee by the Doremus family. After the
death of her husband in 1913, Mrs. Doremus wished to
erect a suitable memorial to him on the campus. Mindful
of his great interest in sports, she decided upon a gym-
nasium, and in December, 1915, the Doremus Memorial
gymnasium was presented to the University. This build-
ing was the personal gift of Mrs. Doremus and was not
a part of the original bequest.

How soon the funds will be released to the Univer-
sity is as yet unknown. Although the closing of the estate
of the late Judge John Barton Payne, recent benefactor
of the University, required eighteen months, it is thought
that the nature of the trust fund established under the
will of Mr. Doremus will make final settlement possible
in less than a year.

Despite the fact that alumni of the past two decades
are probably familiar with the story, it might be well
to review the circumstances surrounding the bequest.

Childless and lacking close relatives, Mr. Doremus
determined before his death to will his fortune to some
southern college—southern because his maternal ances-
tors were Virginians.

Shortly after making this decision, he came on a
vacation to Hot Springs, fifty miles from Lexington, and
happened one day to make an informal visit to Wash-
ington and Lee. So impressed was he with the courtesy,
intelligence, and love for the University displayed by an
unknown student who offered to conduct him around
the campus that he thereupon decided that an institution
producing such gentlemen as his “guide” was worthy of
the gift he had determined to make.

His visit and his intention to bestow his fortune on
Washington and Lee were unknown to University of-
ficials until a communication to that effect was received
from Charles J. McDermott, then attorney for Mr. Dore-
mus and now a member of the Board of Trustees.

The story has now become a treasured University
legend—the name of the “hero” unknown, but not un-

honored. ‘“‘Whatever use is made of the Doremus be-
quest,” according to an editorial in The Ring-tum Phi,
“.. . it will stand always as a tribute to the courtesy of
a Washington and Lee gentleman and the loyalty of a
friend of the University.”

 

The President's Page
(Continued from page 3)

But the achievement of our students includes much
more than their class-room efforts. The joy of the stu-
dent’s life here and the contribution that these days make
to the man who is to be, as every Washington and Lee
alumnus knows, are measured not only by academic
thoroughness but also by some intangible forces that de-
termine the social modes and the spiritual aspirations of
the group.

The fine old traditions remain unabated. This group
of boys is as devoted to the Honor System, for example,
as any crowd that has ever been on the campus. They are
cherishing the graces of courtesy and they are encourag-
ing the demeanor of the gentleman as manifested in dress,
in freedom from the rah-rah-ism that sometimes marks
an American campus. They have made a truly wonderful
progress in establishing a process of assimilation for
freshmen that does not rely upon brutality of hazing.

Whenever this subject of assimilation comes up, I am
mindful of the generous service rendered by about twen-
ty members of our faculty who without any form of
compensation take upon themselves the difficult but im-
portant task of advising groups of freshmen. I am happy,
too, that we can report good results from the system of
dormitory counselors, the enlistment of a small number
of selected old students to live in the dormitory with the
freshmen and exercise a wise influence over the new
boys in their more informal college life.

Nothing could be farther from the truth than an idea
that Washington and Lee has no further needs. We have
them and they are urgent-—I sometimes think desperate.
We need a few more buildings before we have the physi-
cal equipment for our task; we need more financial re-
sources to protect and encourage our teachers; we need
more playground space for our students—indeed, we are
sadly deficient in this respect; we need more money to
maintain the beauty of our campus; we need more schol-
arships to help the boy who may be in every way worthy
of this fellowship but lacks funds.

We have enough needs to keep us working and pray-
ing for a future more spacious than the era we now
know. But certainly today every son of this institution,
every inheritor of Washington’s generosity and Lee’s
love, may lift up his heart and take courage.

FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES, President

Og

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Our Remodeled University Plant

By Don R. Moore, 1937, Student in Journalism

O LESS amazed than returning students last month

will be returning alumni next month at the trans-
formation wrought in the physical plant of the Univer-
sity by the extensive remodeling program started last
spring. And there is adequate cause for surprise. New
men this year can have no conception of the change that
has been effected in the past few months. Only an old
man can appreciate to the fullest the metamorphosis.

It is difficult to describe adequately the thoroughness
with which the project has been carried out. Mere words
can give only a remote
idea of what has been
accomplished, and the
accompanying pictures
of the Student Union
building can tell only
a small part of the
story. Only a personal
inspection can reveal
the extent of changes
made. Homecoming,
1936 (November 7),
thus presents to alum-
ni increased incentive
to return to the cam-
pus to see for them-
selves what has hap-
pened. For those un-
able to personally view
the marvel accom-
plished at the estimated cost of $260,000, however, and
also to sharpen the interest of those doubtful of return-
ing, the following sketch will attempt to relate briefly
what has been done.

The reconstruction program may be divided into four
phases : remodeling and fireproofing of the entire interior
of what has been known as the Washington College
group; the partial remodeling and fireproofing of New-
comb Hall, including complete reconstruction of the
wing at the rear; enlarging and fireproofing of the stack
rooms of the Carnegie Library; and construction of the
Student Union on the site of the old Alumni building,
at the corner of Washington street and Lee avenue.

With one important exception, Washington College
may be said to be practically a new building. Except for
repainting of the walls and columns the exterior appear-
ance was left absolutely unchanged, although of course it

 

The Student Union on the site of the old Alumni building

was necessary to put on a new steel roof. But what has
been done to the interior? Most significant, of course,
is the fireproofing. The building is as fire-resistant as it
it possible for modern science and engineering to make
it. Only the “trim” is of wood; the remainder is of con-
crete and steel.

The floors rest on a steel-reinforced concrete struc-
ture, and all weight is thus taken off the walls, which
have also been reinforced. All the heating, lighting, and
plumbing fixtures and conduits are new, and both New-
comb Hall and Wash-
ington College are well
supplied with modern
wash rooms in which
there are hot and cold
water. At the same
time the work was
done to the buildings,
conduits for the heat-
ing, lighting, plumb-
ing, and telephone sys-
tems were placed un-
derground, thereby re-
moving what has long
been an eyesore.

In addition to the
fireproofing, however,
many other far-reach-
ing changes have been
made. The interior
has been completely remodeled. Just what this means it
is impossible to realize without seeing the structure as
it appears today and comparing it with its former ap-
pearance. Class room and office space has been greatly
enlarged, and a complete renovation of walls, floors, ceil-
ing and fixtures effected.

In order to picture in greater detail how the building
appears now, it might be well to take an imaginary tour
of inspection through part of it. Entering the central
building we step into a spacious lobby, which will be for
the use of all visitors to the University, including parents
of students and of course, alumni.

It is flanked on the left by the registrar’s office, and
proceeding down the hall we find the offices of the treas-
urer and the alumni secretary, as well as that of the
publicity department.

Decoration of the lobby and hall is essentially simple,

Pw 4

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and the impression is that of dignified beauty. The walls
of gray, the ivory ceiling, the ornamental cornices, the
panelling of the lower walls, the special lighting fixtures
of colonial type, and the floor of alberene stone in al-
ternating black and gray squares—all contribute to this
effect. Throughout the halls, at staircase landings, and
in the offices, lighting fixtures similar in design and ar-
tistic beauty are found. The floors, other than on the first
floor, are of special asphalt tile in alternating squares of
mahogany and maroon with black border.

Proceeding up the rebuilt stairs—but with the old
bannister retained—to the second floor, we find the re-
mainder of the administrative offices—those of the Pres-
ident and the Deans in the central and rear portion of this
floor. In the front, two stories in height is the restoration
of the Old Chapel which architects found in the original
plans of the building. While essentially for classroom
purposes—to accommodate large freshman and sopho-
more groups—a raised dais in the front and a balcony in
the rear make it suitable for other uses as well. Although
called only Old Chapel at the present time, it will prob-
ably be known as Washington Chapel.

The third floor consists of classrooms and professors’
offices. The wings of the Washington College group, al-
though work is not yet complete, will be used for class-
rooms and professors’ offices, and the same beauty of
appearance will likewise be found here.

What has been done, it will thus be seen, is the com-
plete renovation of the historic structure which has housed
the University for more than a century. Its traditional
beauty, still as impressive now as then, has not been one
whit impaired. On the contrary, by this step—one of the
most epoch-making in recent years—that beauty has been
greatly enhanced.

And now to Newcomb Hall. The first thing that
strikes the observer are the new wings at the rear, two
stories in height, in place of the former one-story wings.
This change was made, not only to increase classroom
and library space, but also to bring Newcomb Hall into
conformity with the new Tucker Hall, making the Uni-
versity skyline one of perfect symmetry.

These wings, it will be noted, are entirely new, hav-
ing been rebuilt from the ground up. On the first floor
are three large classrooms, and on the second, another
large classroom and the Commerce Library. The latter
has been more than doubled in size, and provides ade-
quate facilities for students in the School of Commerce.

The main wing of Newcomb Hall, because of limita-
tion of funds, was left largely unchanged, but it is hoped
that in the near future it can likewise be entirely fire-
proofed and renovated. The first floor, however, has
been remodeled and is similar in appearance to Wash-
ington College. The remainder of the building, with the
exception of some needed repairs, is substantially the same.

In the Carnegie Library, the wing containing the
stacks has been completely fireproofed. In constructing
and installing the new stacks, an additional series was
added, increasing the library’s capacity by approximately
20,000 volumes, making the total capacity nearly 100,000
volumes, according to Miss Blanche P. McCrum, librar-
ian. Other changes include the laying of a new floor of
battleship linoleum in the main reading room and refin-
ishing of the walls of the art gallery.

Before leaving the campus to go to the Student Union,
it would be well to consider certain other aspects of “re-
construction days” at Washington and Lee. Many alum-
ni, having read in the daily press last spring that “Old
George” had been removed from his pedestal atop Wash-
ington College, doubtless are wondering whether or not
he has been returned. To date the statue is still stored
in the Law School vault, but it is expected that he will
return to his post very soon. In his years of service, he
has been seriously weather-beaten, and an attempt is now
being made to find some means of protecting him from
further ravages by time and the elements. As yet, how-
ever, experts have failed to reach a satisfactory solution.

Although the old bell still remains in the tower be-
neath George, no longer is it rung by hand. By means
of an ingenious device, consisting of a motor attached
to an electric clock, the bell is now sounded automatically.

But to look at the developments in a more general
way and in less detail, let us consider what else the re-
modeling program has meant. In the first place, at the
same time Washington College was remodeled, it was
renamed. In speaking of this central group of buildings,
this article for the sake of clarity has called it Wash-
ington College or the Washington College group. Al-
though, for purposes of identification it may still be
known by this same name, each of its three sections has
been named for a benefactor of the University. The cen-
tral building will henceforth be known as Washington
Hall in honor of George Washington, of course, the
donor of the first substantial gift; the east wing (adja-
cent to Tucker Hall) is now called Robinson Hall, pay-
ing tribute to John Robinson, whose contribution was
largely responsible for the original construction of Wash-
ington College in 1826; and the west wing (adjacent to
Newcomb Hall) has been named Payne Hall for John
Barton Payne, whose recent bequest figured largely in
the realization of the present reconstruction program.

It has not been thought practicable or necessary to
include in this article the location of all the offices and
classrooms, but it might be advisable to tell in a general
way how the departments will be arranged. Although
it will not be possible to fully realize immediately, the
principle on which the re-arrangement has been effected
is to have all so-called “theoretical” subjects in the
front, the “laboratory” courses in the rear. Thus, it is

[ 10 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

planned to devote Robinson Hall, Washington Hall, and
Payne Hall primarily to the courses in liberal arts—
namely, English, Mathematics, Languages, History, and
Journalism; Newcomb Hall to courses in the School of
Commerce and Business Administration, including the
social sciences; and Reid Hall and the Chemistry build-
ing, as yet un-named, to natural sciences—chemistry,
physics, and biology. In order to fully accomplish this,
of course, another instruction building is contemplated
behind Tucker Hall, and conforming to Reid Hall.

 

Let us now walk down the campus to the Student
Union. Situated at the corner of Washington street and
Lee avenue and facing the campus, this building will be
of particular interest to alumni. For, despite its desig-
nation as a center of student activities, it will, of course,
be of benefit and value to the returning alumni.

Conforming in gen-
eral to the architecture
of the University, it
is a large and hand-
some structure. A
porch, supported by
towering white col-
umns, commands the
entrance to the cam-
pus. On entering the
building, we see to the
right a game room for
indoor recreation, and
to the left, an ample
formal reception room
for visitors. In the
rear on the first floor
is a large lounge pri-
marily for student use.
Upstairs are commit-
tee rooms for use by student organizations. Many of
these have already been assigned to such bodies as the
literary societies, the Executive Committee of the Stu-
dent Body, the Publications Board, the Christian Coun-
cil, and Omicron Delta Kappa. In addition there will be
several rooms on the second floor to be placed at the
disposal of other University organizations.

In the basement are found the University Supply Store
and a well-equipped kitchen, for use in preparing light
refreshments for organizations meeting in the building.
Needless to say, alumni will find this phase of activity
in the Student Union very convenient for their informal
meetings when they return to their alma mater from
time to time.

Although workmen are still busily engaged in put-
ting finishing touches on the project, it is expected that,
with the possible exception of furnishings, the work will
be complete—-or at least essentially so—by Homecoming.

 

Construction of the Student Union has already been fin-
ished, and reconstruction in Newcomb, Payne, Wash-
ington, and Robinson Hall will be completed definitely
by November 15, it is promised—although the contract
does not call for completion until February 1, 1937.

New furniture will be installed in the renovated build-
ings as rapidly as funds for this purpose become avail-
able. Although it is hoped that this can be accomplished,
it may be necessary to delay a part of the refurnishing
program until next year. Furniture for the reception
rooms in Washington Hall is expected in the very near
future. These furnishings will be custom-made, built to
the specifications of the architects who planned the reno-
vation of the building, insuring absolute harmony.

The Student Union, its actual construction already
finished, it is said, will be complete early next month,
including the furni-
ture. Much of this is
already assured by the
activities of the Chris-
tian Council, which
has appropriated $650
for furnishing the
game room; the Ex-
ecutive Committee,
which, in addition to
furnishing its meeting
second

2 -

rp :
i
“30

room on the
floor, recently appro-
priated $750 toward
furniture for the re-
ception room and the
lounge ;Omicron Delta
Kappa, which, with
the aid of its alumni,
is furnishing the room
in the northeast corner of the second floor with a large
circular maple table with twenty chairs to match; and
the literary societies, which have already done much to
furnish their own room. Approximately $2,000 will be
needed to complete the work, the Student Union com-
mittee recently declared, but plans for obtaining these
funds are not yet definite. It is expected, however, that
the building will be completely furnished within a few
months.

Another view of the Student Union

Thus, alumni will be gratified to learn that their alma
mater is fast approaching its realization of time-honored
dreams of fireproofed and renovated buildings. The
present program has done much to fulfill this long-felt
need, and it is expected that by judicious planning and
with the aid of the Doremus bequest it will soon be pos-
sible to say without fear of contradiction that Washing-
‘one of the best-equipped universities

.

ton and Lee is
in the South.”

[ 11 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

John Sorrells: From Carrier Boy to President

By Everett O. Amis, 1939

a carrier boy to president! An excellent title
for an Horatio Alger novel, but to John H. Sor-
rells, class of °18, there is probably nothing so extraor-
dinary about it when he reviews his remarkably success-
ful and extremely short journalistic career. Today this
distinguished alumnus is executive editor of Scripps-
Howard newspapers and just recently has been made
president of The Commercial Appeal of Memphis.

John Sorrells, son of the late Judge and Mrs. Wal-
ter Sorrells, of Pine Bluff, Arkansas, matriculated at
Washington and Lee in 1914. He entered as the average
freshman, was somewhat interested in journalism, but
had little newspaper experience except as carrier boy
for The Commercial Appeal and cub reporter on The
Pine Bluff Graphic. Strange as it seems, however, the
Arkansas lad either had no time for, or lost interest in,
the University’s publications. Instead, he entered other
fields of extra-curricular activities. At 165 pounds, John-
nie Sorrells, as he was called, was for two years a star
fullback on the Big Blue’s varsity eleven, but his achieve-
ments were not limited to this. In his junior year he
served as president of the General Athletic Association,
an office which at that time bore greater distinction than
it does today. Other activities beckoned him, and to some
of these he responded. His talent in voice earned him
the place of leader of the Glee Club, besides the first
tenor of the concert artists.

By this time Johnnie had become one of the Uni-
versity’s outstanding B. M. O. C. and he had been bid
by several of the campus societies. Among these were
his national social fraternity, Kappa Alpha, the White
- Friars, Sigma, and the “13” Club. Thus did the Arkan-

sas freshman who entered Washington and Lee in the ,

fall of 1914 become one of the most noted
figures on the campus, but he was not des-
tined to remain in the University longer
than his junior year.

When the United States declared war
on Germany, Johnnie felt a strong sense
of duty toward his country and enlisted
in the army just when he was prepared to
enter his final year at Washington and
Lee. After the war, he returned to his
home in Pine Bluff where he worked as a
reporter on The Graphic, a newspaper
founded by his grandfather. The year
1922 marked his first important advance-

 

 

ment in the journalistic field, for it was at this time that
he became editor of The Graphic. He was in his early
twenties when he attained this recognition, but despite
his youth he managed the publication with the skill of a
veteran and the following year was offered the news edi-
torship of The Daily Oklahoman. He accepted this posi-
tion and held it until 1926, at which time Scripps-How-
ard, who had kept an eye on him for some time, made
him managing editor of The Cleveland Press.

Later in the year 1926, Johnnie Sorrells returned
South. This resulted when Scripps-Howard took over
The News-Scimitar of Memphis, combined it with The.
Press, and selected him -for managing editor of the con-
solidation known as The Memphis Press-Scimitar. It
was here that Johnnie made himself favorably conspic-
uous in the eyes of his employers by issuing forth with
a clever news and picture coverage of the 1927 flood,
lay-outs which attracted comment all over the country.

It was now becoming evident every day that this
southern journalist, John H. Sorrells, was growing more
and more valuable to his firm, Scripps-Howard. Con-
sequently, after his unexcelled work on the flood stories,
he was promoted to head The Fort Worth Press, and
while in the capacity of editor of that paper he began to
conduct a daily front page editorial column. This at once
attracted the attention of the Scripps-Howard office, as
so much of his previous work had done, and so highly
did he establish The Press that in 1930 he was elevated
to his present position of executive editor of Scripps-
Howard newspapers. It was only natural, therefore, that
when this newspaper organization looked about last Oc-
tober for a man to take the presidency of their newly-
purchased Commercial Appeal, they selected John H.
Sorrells. Thus it was that a General, a
monogram wearer of Washington and
Lee, took over the reins of “The South’s
Greatest Newspaper.”

And so once more a Washington and
Lee man falls in line—takes his place up
toward the front, just where he belongs.
Through his untiring efforts, his love of
journalism, and his high ambitions, he has
achieved at a very early age that goal
which few men ever reach. It is with
pride, therefore, that we can point to John
H. Sorrells and say, “That man attended
Washington and Lee.”

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

As the Generals Go to Battle

By WiuiaM B. Bacsey, 1938

OCKED back on their heels in the second game of

the year by a hard-charging Army outfit, the Gen-
erals go to battle again this Saturday with hopes of break-
ing a jinx of long standing which West Virginia Uni-
versity has had on Washington and Lee.

The Generals looked good in their opening engage-
ment with Elon College on Wilson Feld September 26,
but the trip to West Point the following Saturday left
Washington and Lee with a twenty-eight to nothing de-
feat on the record and also injuries to two key men on
the Blue and White team. The score was a disappoint-
ment to many of the alumni who attended the game and
who had hopes of another such game as the previous in-
vasion of West Point by Washington and Lee in 1916.
That was the year that the Generals, with Cy Young as
captain, held the Army to thirteen to seven, losing only
in the last minutes of play when Elmer Oliphant broke
away for a thirty-yard run and a touchdown for Army.

Washington and Lee is faced with a hard schedule
this year and a shortage of men. Besides the men who
were lost by graduation, hopes for a successful Wash-
ington and Lee team were somewhat shaken when it was
learned this fall that Dorsey Wilson, big center and
guard from Versailles, Ky., would not be able to return

to school this year, as well as Layton Cox, a halfback
from Irvine, Ky.

In spite of this loss the Generals returned to Lexing-
ton from Nimrod Hall looking better than perhaps any
Washington and Lee team has looked in the early train-
ing period. Then it was learned that Carl Anderson, let-
terman guard, would not be able to play this year because
of scholastic work, and if this were not enough to turn
any coach’s hair grey, Jimmy Watts, veteran quarter-
back who was expected to go great guns this year, left
the University and entered the Law School at Harvard.
Then in the first game Roger Williams, reserve fullback,
reinjured his knee which he first injured in intramural
track last spring and will be out for the rest of the year.

Ae ot Alene os
Paterson, N. J.; Tubby
Owings, junior, Nor-

fi ---~- wy

    
  

The Generals are keeg%
Berry of Roanoke, V&g
fine work at guard i
have played to date.
year besides Captain!

Charles Brasher,
Jones, end, from Rjand-
back, from Lexing/Bob-
ings, tackle, from backs

lL. Ray

nd

 

   
   

s place
s meet
in the

sounder
e tackle
s from
1 Op-

BKy.;

  
 

HERE THEY COME! The seven hard-charging Generals making up | Y.;

Lee’s eleven are, from left to right: Charles Brasher, end, Babylon, N. ¥ Earl

tackle, Norfolk, Va.; Duane Berry, guard, Roanoke, Va.; Will Rogers, cet‘raft,
guard, Toledo, Ohio; Al Szymanski, tackle, Yonkers, N. Y., and Fri

Rock,

 

 

Long, back

 

[ 13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Petersburg, Va.; Wilton Sample, full-
back, Shreveport, La.; Bob Spessard,
end, Roanoke, Va.; Al Szymanski,
tackle, Yonkers, N. Y.

Brasher and Jones are being press-
ed hard for the first string end posi-
tions by the six feet, seven inch, Bob
Spessard and Bill Borries, brother of
Navy’s “Buzz” and a sophomore this
year. Spessard has been shifted from
a tackle position to an end this year
and the lanky one seems more at home
there. These two boys will be heard
from during the basketball season.

Preston Moore, hard driving back,
seems to have returned to his form of
two years ago and should turn in some
good work this year; Pres is also do-
ing the kicking for the Generals this
year in place of Bill Ellis who finished
last year and is helping Coach Cy
Pine Bluff Graphic. Strange as
Arkansas lad either had no time
the University’s publications. Ins
fields of extra-curricular activities.
nie Sorrells, as he was called, was
fullback on the Big Blue’s varsity el!
ments were not limited to this. In
served as president of the General /
an office which at that time bore grea
it does today. Other activities beckonc
of these he responded. His talent in
the place of leader of the Glee Clul
tenor of the concert artists.

By this time Johnnie had become
versity’s outstanding B. M. O. C. ane
by several of the campus societies. A
his national social fraternity, Kappa .
Friars, Sigma, and the “13” Club. Tht
sas freshman who entered Washingtot
fall of 1914 become one of the most not
figures on the campus, but he was not dé
tined to remain in the University long
than his junior year.

When the United States declared wi
on Germany, Johnnie felt a strong sen
of duty toward his country and enlist
in the army just when he was prepared |
enter his final year at Washington as
Lee. After the war, he returned to h
home in Pine Bluff where he worked as
reporter on The Graphic, a newspape
founded by his grandfather. The yea
1922 marked his first important advance

 

Duane Berry, guard, captain

 

Sample, fullback
Pee")

 

Young with the freshman team now.

Tubby Owings, who will be out of
the lineup in the West Virginia game
because of a twisted ankle received in

the Army game, was out of school last

year because of a kidney ailment. He
is expected to return to the Generals’
lineup shortly and should add lots to
the Blue and White line with his hefty
246 pounds. Al Szymanski, who is con-
sistently good, is taking care of Ow-
ings’ tackle while the big boy is ailing.

Wilton Sample, 200-pound full-
back from Shreveport, La., has’ been
the spearhead of the Washington and
Lee attack this fall. He accounted per-
sonally for fourteen of the twenty-
seven points W. & L. scored against
Elon.

Though they did not make letters
last year, mention must also be made

 

Rogers, center

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of the work of “Kit”
Carson, quarter, and
Dickinson, tackle. Both
are juniors and will see
a great deal of action.
Carson’s passes to Bob
Spessard brought al-
most all the gains that
Washington and Lee
made against Army.
But in addition to
the work of the vet-
erans, the work of the
sophomores on the team
this year has been very
fine. Four sophomores
have been in the start-
ing lineup in each of
the games that the Gen-
erals have played. Dun-
lap, 165-pound quarter-
back from Washington,
D. C., has taken over
the quarter position left

 
 
 
  

Spessard, end

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

Ochsie, tackle Jones, end

vacant by Watts and his work has been outstand-
ing. Running with Dunlap in the backfield is Bob-
by Long, who is also a sophomore. Bobby backs
up the line on the defense and does it well. Ray
Craft, another sophomore, will take Dunlap’s place
in the backfield Saturday when the Generals meet
the Mountaineers. Dunlap was injured in the
Army game, but will probably be in shape to take
over his signal-calling duties in time for the game
with the University of Kentucky on October 17.
In the line two other sophomores have been
in the starting lineup. Joe Ochsie, 200-pounder
from Paterson, N. J., has held down the tackle
opposite Owings, and Bill Brown, who is from
Toledo, O., has taken care of the guard op-
posite Captain Berry.
A roster of the entire squad includes:
John Alexander, sophomore, Leesburg, Va
Stuart Allen, sophomore, Staunton, Va.
Captain Duane Berry, senior, Roanoke, Va.
William Borries, sophomore, Louisville, Ky.
Charles Brasher, senior, Babylon, N. Y.;
Bill Brown, sophomore, Toledo, O.; Earl
Carson, junior, Danville, Ky.; Ray Craft,
sophomore, Clifton Forge, Va.
H. T. Dickinson, junior, Little Rock,

[ 15 |

“we we “

we

Ark.; Don Dunlap,
sophomore, Washing-
ton, D. C.; William
Fishback, senior, Ver-
sailles, Ky.; John Frost,
sophomore, San Anto-
nio, Texas ; Bernie Har-
per, sophomore, Fort
Smith, Ark.; Merton
Howard, sophomore,
Oroya, Peru; Frank
Jones, junior, Rich-
mond, Va.; Jim Lind-
sey, sophomore, Ring-
gold, Va.; Bobby Long,
sophomore, A bilene,
Texas; Charles Lykes,
sophomore, Houston,
Texas.

Preston Moore, sen-
ior, Lexington, Va.; Joe
Ochsie, sophomore,
Paterson, N. J.; Tubby
Owings, junior, Nor-

Long, back

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dunlap, back

folk, Va.; Shack Parrish, sophomore,
-aris, Ky.; Will Rogers, junior, Pet-
ersburg, Va.; Wilton Sample, senior,
Shreveport, La.; Bob Spessard, junior,
Roanoke, Va.; Jack Sutherland, soph-
omore, Coldwater, Mich.; Al Szyman-

ski, junior, Yonkers, N. Y.; Bob How-

ard, sophomore, Lynch, Ky.; John
White, junior, Charleston, West Va. ;
Bob White, junior, Mexico, Mo.; Em-
ery Cox, senior, Norfolk, Va.; Bob
Secord, senior, Detroit, Mich. ; George
Lowry, junior, Clifton Forge, Va.; W.
H. Hillier, sophomore, East Lansing,
Mich.; J. R. Kately, sophomore, N.
Adams, Mass.; and John Powell, soph-
omore, Suffolk, Va.

This year’s schedule is as follows:

September 26, Elon, Lexington
(27-0); October 3, U. S. Military
Academy, West Point, N. Y. (0-28) ;
October 10, West Virginia, Charles-
ton, W. Va.; October 17, University
of Kentucky, Lexington, Va.; Octo-
ber 24, University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville; October 31, Duke, Rich-
mond; November 7, V. P. I. (Home-

 

 

Brown, guard

 

Craft, back
[ 16 |

 

Borries, end

coming) Lexington; November 14,
William and Mary, Norfolk; Novem-
ber 26, Maryland, Baltimore.

Since this story was first written,
the Generals have met two more of
their opponents for the season and
twice they have met defeat, losing to
the Mountaineers of West Virginia
twenty-eight to seven and to the Uni-
versity of Kentucky thirty-nine to
seven. It looked as if the Washington
and Lee team might at last overcome
the West Virginia jinx when they
went into an early seven to nothing
lead over West Virginia, but the Moun-
taineers returned strong, piling up
twenty-eight points. The Generals
were without the services of Tubby
Owings and Don Dunlap in the West
Virginia game and Dunlap was still
unable to play against the University
of Kentucky, while Owings only play-
ed a short while.

The Generals hope to break into
the victory column next Saturday
when they meet Virginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

=
a
= Ra SY) :
]*7s.75 3 sO

ey a "7G ( Lt \ j 7

 

About the Future Generals

ROPPING from a turnout of fifty-five men early in

the fall to thirty at the present time, Washington
and [.ee’s freshman football team has seen practically
nothing but mud since it opened its season with S. M. A.
on October 2. The Little Generals, though outweighed,
held the military academy to a 19-19 deadlock. The next
week they went to Richmond where in the mud they
' were held by Richmond’s freshman team to a nothing to
nothing tie, and last week they traveled to Blacksburg
where in an almost blinding downpour, V. P. I.’s “rats”
eked out a 2-0 victory over the Washington and Lee
freshmen.

Virginia and Kentucky divide honors in the number
of men contributed to the freshman aggregation. Vir-
ginia has six men on the team. Kentucky, while it has
only five men on the squad registered from that state,
is really represented by an equal number, for Harrison
Hogan, probably the most outstanding back in the state
this season, did his high school football playing at Bow-
ling Green High school at Bowling Green, Ky., and was
chosen on the Kentucky all-State team last year. Hogan
has recently moved to Mt. Pleasant, Mich.

Another outstanding player is the two hundred-
pounder from Petersburg, Va., Dick Boisseau, who was
an all-state selection in Virginia last year. He plays tackle
on the freshman team.

Sheridan, a little 155-pound guard from Memphis,
Tennessee, has also been doing fine work in games play-
ed so far this season. Players besides Hogan, Boisseau
and Sheridan who have been playing regularly are:

Joseph Dietz, end, Louisville, Ky.; George Emmer-
ich, end, Silver Springs, Md.; Kelly Litteral, tackle,
Ashland, Ky.; Paul Muldoon, guard, Chicago, IIl.; Reid
Brodie, center, Owensboro, Ky.; James Humphreys,
quarterback, Cedar Bluff, Va.; Robert Abbott, halfback,
Jacksonville, Fla.; and Ralph Baker, halfback, New-
berry, South Carolina.

The Brigadiers are coached this year by Cy Young,
who has been helping Tilson with the varsity for the
past two years, and Bill Ellis, who starred at end on the
Washington and Lee varsity the past three years.

Two more games are left on the schedule for the
freshmen. On November 6 they play Virginia’s yearlings
at Lexington and again on November 13 they have an-
other home game, meeting the University of Maryland
freshmen on Wilson field. Last year Virginia’s freshmen
nosed out the Brigadiers 12 to 6 in the last few minutes

of play. Last year’s Washington and Lee freshmen de-
feated the Maryland freshmen by six to nothing.

A complete roster of the squad follows:

George Emmerich, end, Silver Springs, Md.; Reid
Brodie, center, Owensboro, Ky.; James Sheridan, guard,
Memphis, Tenn. ; James Humphreys, quarterback, Cedar
Bluff, Va.; Joseph Dietz, end, Louisville, Ky.; Robert
Hobson, quarterback, Louisville, Ky.; Kelly Litteral,
tackle, Ashland, Ky.

Robert Hutcheson, tackle, Lexington, Va.; Oscar
Ennenga, center, Freeport, Ill. ; William Wood, halfback,
Hawthorne, N. J.; Theodore Donaldson, end, West
Orange, N. J.; William Dunn, guard, Birmingham, Ala. ;
Harold Luria, end, Reading, Pa.; Charles Curl, end,
Helena, Ark.

Franklin Stanford, halfback, Memphis, Tenn.; John
Campbell, halfback, Oceanside, N. Y.; F. B. Martin,
guard, Mayfield, Ky.; Paul Muldoon, guard, Chicago,
Ill.; James Eckert, halfback, Mt. Lebanon, Pa.; Donald
Buck, tackle, Forest Hills, N. Y.; Robert Abbott, half-
back, Jacksonville, Fla.; L. C. Lewis, guard, Berryville,
Va.; Joseph Billingsly, end, King George Court House,
Va.; Richard Boisseau, tackle, Petersburg, Va.

Harry Mason, halfback, Orange, Va.; Louis Schultz,
tackle, Highland Park, Ill.; Ralph Baker, halfback, New-
berry, S. C.; Harrison Hogan, fullback, Mt. Pleasant,
Mich.; Alfred Thompson, halfback, Rockville Centre,
N. Y.; C. P. Lewis, guard, St. Albans, W. Va.

 

The 1936 Coaching Staff

WASHINGTON AND L£x’s football teams, varsity and
freshman, are under the direction this year of five men,
all of whom are former members of Washington and
Lee football teams. Warren E. (Tex) Tilson is head
coach again this year but his assistant, or rather associate
coach of last year, Cy Young, has assumed the duties of
freshman coach, while Amos Bolen, last year’s freshman
coach, has come over to the varsity to help Tilson. As-
sisting Coach Tilson and Bolen is Bill Ellis, General star
of the past three years and now a member of the Arrows,
professional football team of Richmond. Mr. Young’s
assistant is a General backfield star of the past three
years, Joe Arnold, and he, too, is signed to play with
the Arrows.

[ 17 ]

——~_—sxBIBRARY @&
VYASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Administrative Changes

A NUMBER of changes and additions have been made
in the administration of the University for the present
term. New men on the faculty are as follows:

Robert D. Bradley, Ph. D., head of the romance lan-
guage department; Marshall F. Edwards, A. M., assist-
ant professor of history; Herbert Trotter, Jr., Ph. D.,
assistant professor of physics; Francis Sidney Walls,
M.A., assistant professor of romance languages and fine
arts; Charles A. Barrell, A. M., instructor in political
science; Robert P. Anderson, M.S., director of pub-
licity and instructor in journalism; Robert Hanes Gray,
B.S., LL. B., instructor in economics and commerce;
Edward Lammers, Ph. D., instructor in geology; and
John Robert Taylor, M.5., laboratory instructor in
chemistry.

 

New Managing Editor Appointed

Wiru Tuts issue, C. Harold Lauck becomes manag-
ing editor of The Alumni Magazine, replacing Be
Carter, who was granted a leave of absence from the
University last spring to accept a position with the New
York office of the Associated Press.

Mr. Lauck has been associated with The Alumni
Magazine for several years in his capacity as superin-
tendent of the journalism laboratory press, where the
journal is printed, and has taken an active interest in its
publication.

A graduate of Roanoke college in the class of 1918,
he came to Washington and Lee in 1932 to become di-
rector of the printing laboratory of the department of
journalism and also instructor in journalism. Under his
supervision the journalism laboratory press has received
increasing recognition.

Mr. Lauck and the work of the laboratory press has
won acclaim among graphic arts circles in Virginia, and
recently its reputation has become nationally and inter-
nationally known, largely due to the publication here last
year of “The First Printing in Virginia,” a sixteen-page
abridgement of “The Beginnings of Printing in Vir-
ginia,” by Douglas C. McMurtrie, which was also print-
ed here by Mr. Lauck. This booklet was included as an
insert in the August issue of Philobiblon, a magazine for
book collectors, published in Vienna, and was selected
this month as one of 350 outstanding examples of print-
ing produced in the United States during the period from
September 1, 1935 to September 1, 1936. It will become
a part of the annual exhibition of Commercial Printing of
the Year, conducted under the auspices of the American
Institute of Graphic Arts, and will be displayed in vari-
ous cities throughout the country. —Cy YOUNG

Marriages

Ropert RAGSpALE SMirH, ’33, was married Septem-
ber 2 to Miss Mary Savage. The wedding took place at
Oak Park United Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia.

EpMuNb DoucLtas CAMPBELL, A.B., ’18, M.A.,
Harvard, ’20, LL.B., Washington and Lee, ’22, was
married to Margaret Elizabeth Pfohl on June 16, 1936.

T. Ernest Carr, 35, and Patsy Knopf, both of Bir-
mingham, Alabama, were married October 10, 1936.

James Buxton Stewart, A. B., °36, was married
to Lydia Burgess on June 24, 1936.

BuckNER Wooprorp, B. S., ’33, was married June
5, 1936, to Mary King Koger, in Lexington, Ky.

Water Heprick Witcox, B.S., ’29, was married
to Katherine Merrill Davis on June 11, 1936.

JeroME MarsHatt ALLEN, B.S., ’29, and Frances
Elibameth Lowman were married on August 24, 1936,
in the Little Church Around the Corner, New York City.

CHARLES JoHNSON ALLISON, ’26, and Elizabeth Gore
were married in September in Birmingham, Ala.

Russ A. PrircHarp, ’32, and Elizabeth Rice were
married on June 17th at the home of the bride in Mem-
phis, Tenn.

SENATOR MILES PornpDEXTER, LL. B., ’91, and Mrs.
John Holliday Latane were married August 27, 1936.

Dr. Joun Craic Crark, B.A., ’31, will be married
to Virginia Hieston Rugh on October 31, in Philadel-
phia, Pa.

 

The Opening of the Session

(Continued from page 4)

In all these ways, Washington and Lee is endeavoring
to carry forward and extend the high traditions and
ideals which have come down through the past genera-
tions. There was probably never a time when the insti-
tution could look more confidently to the future. Every-
thing points to a period of uncommonly interesting and
important developments.

 

A change of particular interest effected by the re-
modeling program includes the moving of the journal-
ism laboratory press, where The Alumni Magazine is
printed, from its former location in Payne Hall to the
Accounting building, immediately to the rear of Wash-
ington Hall.

[ 18 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

A Report on the Class Agent Plan

Pies FEWER men contributed to the Alumni fund
this year than last, the amount contributed increas-
ed by more than $250.00, it is shown by the 1936 report
of the class agents, recently released by the Alumni office.

This year 612 men contributed a total of $3,708.00 as
compared with 1935 when 645 men contributed $3,440.00.
The smaller amount in the latter year is explained by the
fact that contributions were also being solicited from
alumni at that time for construction of the new Tucker
Hall, to which appeal many responded generously.

Alumni officials and University officials are unani-
mous in their belief that the plan has been eminently suc-
cessful to date. Its adoption has made possible greatly ex-
panded activities by the alumni office and thus the alumni
have been brought into closer contact with the University
than ever before.

The funds received are expended under the super-
vision of the Alumni board primarily to relieve the Uni-
versity of the support of the Alumni association, and if
possible, to render service to the University.

The complete tabulation of this year’s results and a
recapitulation of the four years of the plan follows.

CLASS No. oF CONTRIBUTORS AMOUNT
LOA BRO sits: satrdess ss 5.0%. ex. etek cnr cxiseh arian $ 50.00
LO i ie ii... Sek eeié tat GA tas eal 55.00
OOF 5. srneeet. An. 3 ils... ? TSR ae ee aE 264.50
1 Os Fe ing ch apse ss... Be Teta wien. ¥ balsick: 61.00
1898 hci aticse, sid... tok aot oats 39.00
1605 taidnsccth-- ieee Mee Ota 12.50
1800"... Sas eet aks. Bet Beha. td. ssesse 142.00
1897 0... Ne fis an cn 16.00
1806 2.0.) Ae ee eee RE tok Pa 0,9. 85.00
1899) «5. ee ent ecco) 2 208.50
1900 i eee oy... es 15.00
IGOT oe. oe a eee oe aceon 31.50
WO oP iki ic Re... ..0-.0.- 106.00
190. io ee eee | Se 81.00
ROG iil esis osc ae Recs ys... 68.00
NE ret sis calls, s, cle osttba ale ee... 7.00
Na ia a on cael Fee...» 111.50
Fe oe. tadiases Beadss i enccaes 1) Saee e i 54.00
Sh Si, es a aa DE pe ik sis 68.00
1909—Academiic .................... ata 159.50
PRON cic... <....ssecccucbecens Ge cba... 132.50
SR eee |. os coacnes 5 id a= 2h Aa ole 72.00
OE Sa... cc cccczscoces es eats... 52.00
PE a Akins c=. tosis cca 1G%s5 tier eines. 20%: 120.50
Nh fice... 22s 18. SREIOAGS:.. 67.00

RN: ee PO ae ee. ee 131.50
SR a i a te le een ae 136.50
1916—Academiic .................... ORAM pp eae Wl P85 37.00
ee... MR a hot ae 43.00
1917—Academiic .................... I i toa 132.00
eS oe. ccces SO Pe oY aoe 55.00
ese. BUD ca ceeA os... (cn ee 33.00
ca Be ioe od ne 49.50
Se .. a ee) ea 116.50
1921—Academiic .................... st eee 58.50
eee vee SRR BI oe 31.00
Pe ee Bisset vs te 40.00
1923—Academiic .................... Ce OLR eee 25.00
er ee... Re ete tke 25.00
1924—Academnic ................... Mae eta rk ach 8.00
Roa... -ccscsicas-o0: ES tn x cdacececks 6.50
1925—Academiic .................... Per eS eo) 83.00
en he ey ae 43.00
1926—Academnic .................... D.Sc ecncalgaieens ce 35.50
ERR ares sg... co. ...- as Fe a ae ee 12.00
er SD os icc cUdcadacanssse il 18.00
1928—Academnic .................... ER 25.00
a ee eee eee 3.00
is, 2s) Os ead fac 115.00
1930—Academiic .................... ee te 46.00
BPE ois... oocas sade wesc Biiidscs ee. oe 13.00
1931—Academnic .................... 1S. hk ae. 50.00
FUER Por an. lbstieoens sia Sid 20.00
1932—Academnic .................... 19 a ee, 43.00
1992 so ES: Fea. . Be. 25.50
1933—Academiic .................... £2 a. 50.00
ee OE... ;. vivceanes vataars ee ae... cere 11.00
1934—Academnic ..................... METS CRE ae soso sees 73.00
TOGA ios oss oo ko vctaeeeeceee Be fae ce ae 7.00
1935—Academnic .................... SRR eal 17.00
TSS I evan eresscobtereceds ce tte 7 OO
TSS oo rr dn ccsnaseeed ii cics si, ee 1.00
LOST *....c.,:2: Ce est s- +s ccadeuas hicks eee. 10.00

Tete ais i Gi2. sha ae ee $3708.00

Resuts oF CLass AGENT PLAN—1933 to 1936

YEAR No. oF CONTRIBUTORS AMOUNT
IFS. PG ci es Mes ts $3741.80
Pe. renee oie coins cae MURS Ri ia ivcs at 4524.07
RE i, ee ck. dhe oats At cot: a 3440.05
BO oc IE vases be ccpktiem sect CRM ae chk yt 3708.00

metal i cai ti: BAR ahs tesn $15,413.92

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

New York Alumni Hold Meeting

THE First monthly meeting of the New York Alum-
ni association for the fall season was held at the Planter’s
restaurant, September 9, 1936. The luncheon was unus-
ually well attended for the first meeting and among those
present were the following:

Edward Lee, W. H. Owen, James J. Salinger, Frank
P. Williams, H. R. Dobbs, Stuart Wurzburger, Frank
Jones, Haven Walton, S. Mortimor Ward, Ethan Allen,
Caveat Roberts, George T. Holbrook, Carl E. Gill, R. P.
Sternman, Emmet Poindexter, and William O. Hyman.

At the conclusion of a thoroughly satisfying luncheon
the informal meeting was called into the discussion of
business by the president of the association, Emmet
Poindexter. The most immediate matter was the attend-
ance at the Army game at West Point on October 3rd.
Stuart Wurzburger advised he had made arrangement
for a special train to accommodate alumni and their
guests, and it is anticipated that the Washington and Lee
section will be well represented by alumni in and around
New York.

After discussion it was decided to defer the annual
banquet until later in the season and to abandon the prac-
tice of having the banquet the evening prior to a foot-
ball engagement near New York.

Monthly meetings will be held as usual at the Plant-
er’s restaurant on the first Wednesday of each month
at 12:30, and the association wishes to extend its invi-
tation to any undergraduates or alumni who may be in
New York on the occasion of such meeting.

H. G. Morison, Secretary

 

Gets Important Appointment

FANNING HeEaron, class of 1927, Phi Kappa Psi,
Sigma, 13, 11; President of Finals, 1927, and captain of
the 1926 boxing team, has been appointed by Secretary
of Interior Harold L. Ickes as Director of the Division
of Motion Pictures of that department. Hearon went to
Washington in March, 1934, as a press representative in
the National Park Service and in two years was appoint-
ed to one of the Federal government’s most important
motion picture positions. Subjects filmed and produced
under his supervision include the work of Civilian Con-
servation Corps, the scenic grandeur of the national
parks, restoration of the cattle ranges, reclamation of
desert land and the generation of power, the modern
Indian, care of public domain, and relative activities.
His new home is 3624 S street, N. W., Washington,
D. C. His wife is the former Baylies Brewster, a Vassar
Daisy Chain graduate in 1931; and they have two daugh-
ters, Mary Southgate, three, and Baylies, II, age one.

Oldest Alumnus Succumbs

Dr. JosEpH L. SHERRARD, of the class of 1861, died
October 1 at the University Hospital in Charlottesville,
Va. He was 93 years old but had been ill only a few days.

Dr. Sherrard, who made his home at Crozet, Va.,
and with a daughter in Richmond, Va., was a retired
Presbyterian minister and veteran of the War Between
the States. He was a senior at Washington College when
war was declared and he became second lieutenant of a
company reorganized under Prof. J. J. White, captain,
and John Lyle, first lieutenant.

Outstanding during his career as a soldier was the
capture of Major-Generals Crook and Kelly of the Union
army at their headquarters in hotels of Cumberland, Md.
The next day he was captured and returned to Cumber-
land, later being transferred to Camp Chase, an army
prison near Columbus, Ohio, where he stayed for the
few remaining days of the war.

When hostilities were brought to an end, Dr. Sher-
rard became a civil engineer and constructed one of the
first bridges across the Missouri river. Later he became
a student at the Union Theological Seminary, then at
Hampden-Sydney, where he was graduated in the class
of 1877.

His first pastorate was at Petersburg, West Va., and
later at Rockfish, Va. He retired many years ago but
still served as supply minister and in mission work.

BisHop JAMES R. WINCHESTER, of Little Rock,
Ark., has the sympathy of the alumni in the death of his
wife in the late summer in Chicago. Bishop Winchester
as a student was a member of the Lee Guard of Honor
at the burial of General Lee.

Water H. HorrMan, class of 1876, died at his
home in New Orleans, July 28, 1936, following an illness
of more than two years.

Shortly after receiving his degree in civil engineer-
ing at Washington and Lee University, he became asso-
ciated with the United States engineers in New Orleans
and was employed by them for many years. Later he be-
came connected with the Louisiana board of state eng-
neers, being secretary of that organization at the time
of his retirement eight years ago.

CAPTAIN JOHN FRANKLIN Coates, ’18, died August
31 in Atlanta, Ga. He was a member of the 457th Pur-
suit Squadron of the Aviation Corps during the World
War.

Preston HatcuHer, A.B., ’24, died September 20
at his home in Jonesboro, Ark.

 

Dr. and Mrs. Lucius Lamar Davidge, A.B., ’28,
have a daughter, Nellie Lamar, born June 25, 1936.

[ 20 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Younc, Alumni Secretary

OST EVERYONE KNOWS that names make news. It has

occurred to me that it would be of interest to our
subscribers if in each issue of the Alumni Magazine I
would pass on to you some of the informal conversations,
commonly known as Bull Sessions, that
I have with many alumni in my travels
and on the campus here, which take up
a lot of my time, but which I thoroughly
enjoy.

Please don’t get the idea that I am
trying to break in as a columnist. I
promise not to copy the style of a Win-
chell, a MacIntyre or a Frank Kent.
However, I might lean a little toward
Grantland Rice, as at this time our alum-
ni are thinking of football. From the
slang expressions I am sure you will
soon see I am not trying to go hi-brow.

+ - wets

In Charleston, West Virginia, this summer—which,
by the way, is one of the best Washington and Lee towns
anywhere—I of course ran into a great many of our
friends. On this particular occasion there was being held
the annual summer gathering. I won’t try to enumerate
the many alumni present, but there were several who
wanted to chat.

I had Laird Thompson with me, and we were the
guests of Kay Thomas in his beautiful new home on
South Hills. Kay, by the way, is the proud father of
a baby girl. Those of you who were in college in the
middle 20’s will well remember Kay as an outstanding
end on the football team and captain his last year. Who
can forget the ’25 game in mud knee-deep on Wilson
Field, when we beat Virginia 12 to 0? Kay was the Cap-
tain of that team.

Charlie Peters had the floor a great deal of the time
at this party and most of his speech was taken up by
giving me the devil. However, I know Charlie, and we
are still friends.

Cy Hall presided in his usual masterful fashion and
had things well under control, taking everything into
consideration.

Brown Truslow was on the job as usual. If there was
ever an alumnus more interested than Brown, I would
like to see him.

Johnny Morrison, who seldom misses a meeting of
any kind where Washington and Lee is concerned, could

 

not be present. However, he was elected president for
the coming year and I know that we can count on Johnny
to carry on Cy Hall’s good work.

Norman Fitzhugh, one of our many good Class Agents,
was present and seemed to enjoy him-
self thoroughly. Norman has certainly
put the class of 98 where it should be,
among the leaders.

I could take up this whole page with
the good time I had in Charleston—
leaving out my visit to Jack Savage's
house after the meeting—but I had bet-
ter move on down the river to my home
town—Huntington.

* a * *

Any man enjoys going back home,
but this is particularly so in my case, as
Huntington is the stamping ground of so
many Washington and Lee enthusiasts.

Now take Philip (“Pete”) Gibson, for instance. Who
ever saw Pete when he did not want to make a speech,
and most of the time his subject is Washington and Lee.
I lean on Pete heavily for assistance in my alumni work
around Huntington and he always comes through. There
is one particularly fine job that he has done that I must
tell you about. His law partner, Roy Marcum, is a very
loyal and enthusiastic West Virginia University alum-
nus, but where did Roy send his boy for his legal edu-
cation? Not to West Virginia, but to Washington and
Lee. Pete put on the pressure. To Pete’s friends who have
not seen him in a long time, I am going to tell you that
he is now married and has a son. Pete has tamed down
a bit since he has taken on a family. He is still, however,
the boss politician.

Selden McNeer has offices in the same building with
Pete and I dropped in for a chat with him. Selden is
doing fine in the practice of law and is a frequent visitor
to the campus, and as enthusiastic as ever.

Another one of our distinguished alumni in these
parts is none other than Selden (“Shrimp”) Jones. For
some reason or other he has acquired the nickname of
“Dummy.” He and Eddie Long spend most of their time
during the summer on the golf course. Shrimp wins most
of the games but Eddie wins most of the arguments, and
there are plenty of them.

I have recently taken up golf and I can get more free
instruction in front of the Rainbow Garden in Hunting-

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ton than any place I know of. Not only can I get golf
lessons free, but there I can learn how to coach a foot-
ball, basketball, or any other kind of team. There are
more down-town coaches in Huntington, West Virginia,
to the square inch than any town in the world. I advise
any of our alumni who are in the coaching game to pay
a visit to Huntington.

Another great golfer in Huntington is Pat Asbury,
(***42”) to those who were in school with him. He held
the club championship until he had to give up the game on
account of his health. He is a great Washington and Lee
Booster and was instrumental this year in sending us a
very fine golfer. We have a larger representation this
year in the student body from Huntington than we have
ever had.

Johnny and Joe McVey are still on the job—Johnny
running the advertising department of the Huntington
Publishing Company, and Joe practicing law and doing
well. Johnny was passing through Lexington this summer
and couldn’t resist spending a few days. He took off his
coat and settled down in the Corner. He moved on to
Charles Town where the races were going on and—you
guessed it—hit a daily double. His luck is still holding out.

*x* * * *

Have you ever been to Zinzinnati? There is a Wash-
ington and Lee town for you! we are getting eight or ten
boys a year from that locality, thanks to the good work
of our many alumni there. Yes, I saw Walter McDonald,
Lawrence Witten, Clyde Hoge, Roger Bear and most of
the others. Walter has at last—no I’m not going to an-
nounce his marriage—set up housekeeping. He is living
on a beautiful farm on Spooky Hollow Road, not raising
a crop, but enjoying his beautiful home and surroundings.
He was right much worried the day I was with him there
as two of his high bred wire-haired terriers had left
their domicile. Everyone in that end of the county was
searching for them.

I enjoyed an evening also with Lawrence Witten.
In spite of his health not being so good recently, he is
still one of the biggest Washington and Lee boosters.

Roger Bear who heads our Cincinnati Alumni Asso-
ciation, is always ready to lend a helping hand.

It was my intention when I started this chat to men-
tion only Washington and Lee friends, but when I think
of Cincinnati, I think of John and Sarah Darnall. Even
though John is not an alumnus, he is an adopted son of
Washington and Lee. A great many of you remember
him helping us in the Alumni Office for the past four
years. He is always working and has some helpful sug-
gestions to offer. John and Sarah live in Glendale and
their home is the stopping place for many Washington
and Lee boys passing to and from school.

On down the river to Louisville, the home of the
Kentucky Derby and many Washington and Lee men,
and they are still coming. Twenty boys in school last year
from this Kentucky metropolis and though I have not
made a check, [ am sure there are that many, if not more,
this year—due, of course, to that fine local alumni organi-
zation and now headed by the enthusiastic Ed Dodd. In
spite of my insistence that mid-July was a bad time for
an alumni meeting, he called one, and had present as
guests of the local association all of the boys who were
entering the University this fall and prospective students.
The Louisville crowd does this each year and it is helping
considerably. I recommend it most heartily to any other
group who would like to try it. There is no arguing the
fact that our Louisville Alumni have things well in hand.
We admit they are the best organized group of any
college alumni in Louisville, and they are certainly get-
ting results.

Bob Hobson headed this local for a great many years,
but stepped aside several years ago. He is still just as en-
thusiastic and is keeping up the Hobson tradition at
Washington and Lee. He now has a son in his freshman
year. Bob, Jr., has got a little something on Bob, Sr., as
he is an athlete and a good one—not so big but mighty
and has plenty of what it takes.

Lefty Klein is in the insurance business with offices
in the Starks Building. Lefty serves on most any com-
mittee for the local association where a hustler is needed.
Bob Foree and Ed Rietze, both of whom return to the
campus quite often, are competitors in the electric re-
frigerating business. George Burke is still on the job.
Peel Rivers, one of our best swimmers and track men
when he was a student, is in the Spud business with
Axton Fisher Tobacco Co. We have two Axton boys in
college and they are great boosters of Spuds. They say
you can’t keep cool with a Kool.

*x* * *

To the alumni of the early 90’s—John J. Davis is
still holding forth in Louisville. However, I didn’t have
the pleasure of seeing him on my annual visit as he and
John, Jr., were traveling in Europe. John is Class Agent
for ’92, which class has always been right at the top
since the inception of our plan.

x * %*« *

I could ramble on and take up the entire magazine
with this gossip—but I won’t. In the next issue I am
going to take you over to St. Louis with me. I know you
will be interested in knowing what the many alumni there
are doing.

If you have any interesting gossip of alumni, fit for
printing send it on and we might really start something
in this column. If you think the whole thing is tripe, write
me and I will be glad to discontinue it.

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1869

JoHNn F. SwAyns lives at Ft. Worth, Texas, and his
letter is full of the pleasure he has had attending the re-
cent alumni meetings in Dallas, where he was an honor-
ed guest.

1872

C. F. SHeErrop is a grower and shipper of the fam-
ous Indian River Citrus Fruit at Cocoa, Fla. He was a
student at Washington College while General Robert E.
Lee was its president. He says, “Any boy of Washing-
ton and Lee will find a warm and hearty welcome await-
ing him should he find an opportunity to drop in and see
me in my home located on the scenic Indian River Drive,
just north of Cocoa, Fla.”

1874

Rr. Rev. James R. WINCHESTER, retired beloved
Bishop of Alabama, lives half of his time with a daugh-
ter at 1538 Crestmere avenue, Memphis, Tenn., and the
other half with his son, Lee Winchester, in the same city.

1886
W. J. Humpnreys lives at the Cosmos Club, Wash-
ington, D. C.
1888

Jupcr Henry W. Hott is a member of the Supreme
Court of Appeals. of Virginia. He lives in Staunton, Va.

1889

Dr. Wittt1am E. Dorp has retired after forty-five
years of gratifying work in the practice of medicine. We
are pleased to print herewith a letter writ-
ten by him.

University of Virginia
April 3, 1936

My dear “Cy” Young:

Were I to address you otherwise, it
might impress you as peculiar. Knowing
you, and of you, I am satisfied to let my
words stay as written.

Your circular letter to alumni has

reached me, and as in past years, I take ugg oT
nn

pleasure in contributing to your fund. My
check is for a smaller amount than I should
be pleased to send, but as I have retired
from practice, after fifty-five years’ grat-

 

 

ifying work in medicine, my larger income has ceased,
and I must be content to send the enclosed. On former
occasions, I have noted that the alumni of Washington
and Lee have responded to the appeals of Alma Mater
in a spirit of liberality and co-operation. That I think
rather unusual. Affection and loyalty seem to have ani-
mated them, and-I hope that even under present finan-
cial conditions, the response may gratify you.

I embrace this opportunity of responding further to
your suggestions. May I call attention to an admirable
custom that was the vogue at the University in the sev-
enties? It was the use of autograph albums, and when I
bring up the subject, do not think that the men who so
universally followed the custom were cases of adult in-
fantilism. Before me is an album, worn and tarnished,
but more valued than would be many times its weight
in fine gold. In it are scores of names, held in affection-
ate remembrance, and the majority of those who wrote
those names are now as shadows: Their hands are folded
forever. Yet their kind and friendly sentiments still give
pleasure.

“Alas, that Spring should vanish with the Rose!
That youth’s sweet-scented manuscript should close !”’

said Omar Khayyam.
There are some remaining who remind old comrades
of the glamour that enveloped those vanished days.

There is JupbGE WiLtiAM H. Taytok, ’75, loyal alum-
nus and scholarly gentleman. Unusually distinguished at
the University during the presidency of Gen. R. E. Lee
and that of Gen. G. W. C. Lee. As a sub-professor I was
under his instruction, but his human and
kindly instincts made him a comrade and
through many intervening years, he has
been the same affectionate and_ partial
friend. We exchange letters, and in such
correspondence, as in many respects, he
excells. I could write many pages about this
unusual man. His home is in Uniontown,
Alabama.

Joun N. Gienn, ’79, now living in

| New York and so much interested in the
hissy ; i | alumni there, and they in him, that he was
y 7

| se 99
ad Hi | the “guest of honor” at the last Nevember
i ee hi) Nyt Hi’ . e ov iee °
—wamehie” meeting. Certainly a distinguished repre-
Ww sentative of the University; long the di-
rector of the Russell Sage Foundation;

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

many honors have been bestowed upon him. He wears
his years gracefully.

JoHN MarsHA.t, ’72, of Prince William county,
Virginia, was one of my intimates at Washington and
Lee and a delightful feature of that friendship is that it
is alive today as it has been through many years. He
originated the great Southern Society of New York,
and is honored by that organization above all others. He

is (to quote him) “the oldest son of the oldest son of the

oldest son of the Chief Justice.” Three generations. His
charm of person remains and one of my pleasures in life
is in receiving letters from him year after year—I had
reached this point in my note, when a letter was brought
to me from Mrs. Malcolm M. Washington, of Prince
William, first cousin of John Marshall, stating that on
March 30th his life ended in Warrenton, and she added,
‘as you seem to be the only friend who has kept in touch
with him, I have thought it best to notify you of his
death.”” He was buried at Greenwich, a village near Ma-
nassas and Warrenton. Well, honor and peace to his
memory !

James H. DiLvarp, ’77, is now a neighbor of mine
and we no longer have to exchange letters. Of a great
man it was once written: “He was a scholar and a ripe
and good one. Exceeding wise, fair-spoken and persuad-
ing.” This might have been written of James H., who for
years, has been so prominent in philanthropic and aca-
demic work. Rector Magnificus, as they would designate
him at Heidelberg, he has for years held the exalted
office at the ancient college of William and Mary.

EpwaArpD RANDALL, M. D., ’79, of Galveston, Texas;
distinguished in his profession and a noted citizen of
Texas. He writes me that he has virtually retired from
active work, but with his temperament, work will never
cease. Every one loved Ed Randall; ask dear old Will
McElwee the next time you walk down to the bank on
Main street, and also ask him about

WituiAM BeEtrincER McCuvuer, ’79—“Pansy Bill,”
and like Randall and McElwee, a noted member of the
baseball nine that made history.

Jupck CHaArLEs M. Smirn, ’79, of Camden, Ark.;
what an amiable, delightful man to know! So wise and
gentle, yet strong, his very presence had a soothing effect.
He, with the lamented John M. Robinson, ’76, “Sim-
mons,” of Shreveport, La., sat with and in honor of
President Gaines at a gathering of the alumni several
years ago.

There are other “old-timers” of whom I might write,
but you are a busy man, and I have probably encroached
upon your time. If so, I can only say, you brought it
upon yourself. Your letter is cheering. It is good to

know that the year is a “successful and happy one’”—
that all is well with your great president, and the future

———- Faithfully,
WiLitiAmM Extiott DoLp

1890

DoucLas §. ANDERSON retired at the close of last
session after forty-four years of service in Tulane Uni-
versity, New Orleans, La., having occupied the position
of Professor of Electrical Engineering, Dean of the Col-
lege of Engineering, and acting-president for the past
session.

Davin McGowan has retired from the consular ser-
vice of the United States and is now living in Lynch-
burg, Va.

1893

HARRINGTON WADDELL is superintendent of county
schools of Rockbridge county; a member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, and active in civic affairs of
Lexington.

H. A. AvsricutT, class agent for ’93, unveiled an
equestrian statue of General Robert E. Lee in Columbus,
and was therefore unable to return to Finals, as the
dates coincided.

B. A. Jupp was in Lexington for Finals this year.

I. H. Kempner has two grown sons, the older one
married and in the cotton end of his father’s business,
the other in the sugar business at Sugar Land, Texas.
Mr. Kempner lives in Galveston, Texas.

Dr. D. Hunter HuFFaker has been living in El
Paso, Texas, for a great many years. He was temporarily
incapacitated by cataracts on his eyes, but was promised
a complete recovery after an operation.

H. T. BAtt is living at 1240 South Oxford Street,
Atlanta, Ga.

1894

Newvon D. Baker, member of the University Board
of Trustees, was in Lexington for the board meeting on
October 12, 1936. He is a member of the law firm of
Baker, Hostetler, Sidlo & Patterson, Union Trust build-
ing, Cleveland, Ohio.

C. H. FreEEMAN is living temporarily at 57 Hazelton
Drive, White Plains, N. Y. He says he will be back in
Virginia before long.

MarsHaALL HENRY GUERRANT spends his winters in
Umatilla, Fla., where he has a citrus fruit farm, and
summers in Louisville, Ky. Did not return to Louis-
ville the past summer, however, but remained in Florida
at Daytona Beach. Is an ardent fisherman.

[ 24 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1897

Ep WoHLWENDER is practicing law in Columbus,
Ga., under the firm name of Wohlwender and Calhoun.

GrorGE C. PEERY is Governor of Virginia and a
member of the University Board of Trustees.

1898

Henry W. ANDERSON is a member of the law firm
of Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore, Elec-
tric building, Richmond, Va.

W. Ross McCain is president of the Aetna Insur-
ance Company, Hartford, Conn.

Epwarp A. O'NEAL is president of the American
Farm Bureau.

1899

KirBy CHAMBERS is in the wholesale seed business
and is running a stock farm in the Blue Grass section
of Kentucky, raising horses and cattle.
His address is 100 East Main street,
Louisville.

Ropert B. KNox is in the cotton
manufacturing business in Newton, N.
C. He is vice-president of Clyde Fabrics,
Inc. He has four sons.

Hartow §. Drxon, Elizabethton,
Tenn, says, “There must be something
in Washington and Lee that brings out
the best in men.” -

JouN Epwarp BurRWELL is practicing law in Floyd
Court House, Va.

BERBERT CHERMSIDE is clerk of the circuit court,
Charlotte Court House, Va.

BryAN ConraD is in Richmond, Va., living at 601
East Grace street.

WitiiAmM E. Davis is with the Midland Coal Cor-
poration, Louisville, Ky.

Dr. G. B. Cariro is practicing medicine in the Pro-
fessional building, Charleston, W. Va.

=
1900
D. K. CAMERON lives at 23091%4 West 54th street,
los Angeles, Calif. |

RAN TUCKER is a member of the law firm of Tucker,
Bronson, Satterfield and Mays with offices in the State
Planters Bank building, Richmond, Va. He was mar-
ried in 1911 and has a married daughter and a son who
graduated from V. M. I.

 

1901

EK. D. Orr is practicing law in the First National
Bank building, Harrisonburg, Va.

CLARENCE BurNs is a member of the firm of Wilson,
Burns & Wilson, Lebanon, Va. He is the proud father
of seven children.

RicHarp C, Lorp is a professor at Kenyon College,
Gambier, Ohio.

1902

J. Woop Grass is a member of the firm of Glass &
Chappell, counsellors-at-law, Nowata, Okla.

C. S$. McNutty is practicing law in the Shenandoah
Life building, Roanoke, Va. His son, C. S$. McNulty, Jr.,
is a senior this year at Washington and Lee.

W. T. Extis, JR., studied medicine at the University
of Pennsylvania, and since his graduation has devoted
his time to the practice of surgery in
some of the general hospitals, and to the
Department of Public Safety as a di-
vision surgeon.

WiLiiaM Jerr LAUCK is a consult-
ing and practical economist, with offices
in the Mills building, Washington, D. C.

Scotr M. Lorrin has been co-re-

“ ceiver of the Florida East Coast Rail-
way. He was recently appointed to fill
an unexpired term in the U. S. Senate.

1903

C, R. PILKINGTON is with the American Fruit Grow-
ers, Inc., Orlando, Fla.

JAmMEs A. Parks lives at 210 S. Main street, Clin-
ton, Mo.

J. W. TurNER is general manager of the Braden Cop-
per Company at Rancagua, Chile. His son, W. J., Jr.,
is in Exeter Academy, and we hope he will come to
Washington and Lee for his college work. Billy Turner
lived in Lexington as a boy and has many warm friends
here.

SAM GLAsGow is pastor of the Independent Presby-
terian church of Savannah, Ga. One of his hobbies is a
collection of more than seventy different pictures of
General Robert E. Lee. This is probably one of the best
privately owned collections of Lee pictures in the South.
He is also collecting Leeana which consists of unpub-
lished stories of the less familiar incidents in the life
of General Lee.

[ 25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1905

J. L. Wysor is a member of the law firm of Gilmer,
Wysor & Gilmer, Pulaski, Va.

Joun West App1son is with the Federal Trade Com-
mission, Washington, D. C.

Davin A. BRADHAM is practicing law in Warren, Ark.

. 1906

D. C. WEAVER is vice-president of McWhorter,
Weaver & Co., jobbers, of Nashville, Tenn.

Gus Quar-es lives at 139 East 7th street, Plain-
field, N. J.

CABELL ‘TUTWILER has remodeled the old Weis
Place—‘Brushwood’—near Lexington, and he and his
wife are living there.

JaAmMEs WaLTER LaTToMUs is practicing law in the
Citizens’ Bank building, Wilmington, Del. He says: “I
am proud of the fact that I am a graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee and glad that I was a student under John
Randolph ‘Tucker and Charles A. Graves. We owe much
to these two men.”

1907

Dr. FranK McCurcuan lives in Salisbury, N. C.
He is married and has three sons, Frank, Jr., James
Hutton and Arthur Dixon.

Hucu M. Moomaw has been living in Roanoke, Va.,
ever since graduating from Washington and Lee. He is
much interested in football and gets back frequently to
games. Has a wife and one daughter and a comfortable
home.

DonaLp W. M. MacCtueEr is minister of the Rose
City Park Community church of Portland, Ore., where
he has been for sixteen years. Had two daughters mar-
ried last year, one in June and another in October ; a son
in Occidental College, Eagle Rock, Calif.

1908

EarLe K. Paxton is associate professor of Mathe-
matics at Washington and Lee.

Tuomas N. Havtin has recently been appointed
chief chemist and metallurgist of the Department of
Power, City of Los Angeles, Calif. He lives at 3526
Cimarron street.

G. C. GABRIEL is serving as the pastor of a very fine
church in Red Lion, Pa.

Harry W. GAssMAN is principal of the Walnut Hills
High school, Blair avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio.

JosrEpH HENLEY JOHNSON has lived “first one side
and then the other” of Dale street in Kingsport, Tenn.,
for twelve years. Sends greetings to his class agent as
“an old partner in house at the Old Blue Hotel.”

1909

WittramM T. DELAPLAINE, of Frederick, Maryland,
has a son in his second year at Washington and Lee.

R. R. Brown is head of the department of Athletics
in the New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, N. M.

F. M. Harrison is with the Universal Leaf Tobacco
Co., exporters and importers, Richmond, Va.

K. W. DENMAN is practicing law in the Lufkin Na-
tional Bank building, Lufkin, Texas.

Jor Lyxkes is a member of the firm of Lykes Bro-
thers Co., Inc., 17 Battery Place, New York, shippers.

1911

Joun G. HERNDON has been granted sabbatical leave
for the first semester of the college year and will return
to his class-room duties at Haverford College in Feb-
ruary. He expected to spend the substantial part of the
summer in England and Switzerland.

LAWRENCE L. Humpurey is president of the Secur-
ity National Bank, of Duncan, Okla.

M. E. Kurru is a member of the law firm of An-
drews, Kelley, Kurth and Campbell, Gulf building, Hous-
ton, Texas. He and his family were in Lexington for
Finals.

E. B. Lemon is in the real estate business under the
firm name of Windel-Lemon, Inc., Roanoke, Va.

1912

J. C. Pickens is with the Southern Railway Com-
pany, 15th and K streets, Washington, D. C.

O. L. McDona.p is practicing law in Clarksburg,
W. Va.

Cart Coucs lives at 606 S. Orleans avenue, Tam-
pa, Fla.

1913

EucenE C. Dickerson has been practicing law in
the same office since his graduation in 1913. He is in the
Liberty Trust building, Roanoke, Va.

Howarp L&E RosINsON is practicing law in Clarks-
burg, W. Va.

Ceci, H. LIcH.irer is a lawyer with offices in the
Barnett National Bank building, Jacksonville, Fla.

[ 26 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Grorck West DIEHL is pastor of the Presbyterian
church, Corpus Christi, Texas.

Epwarp §. DELAPLAINE is practicing law in Fred-
erick, Md.

S. C. Roasge is farming and dairying near West
Point, Miss.

CiirrorD Foster is in the circulation department of
The Commercial Appeal. He is married and has a son
twelve years old.

WILLiAM THompson HanzscueE, “The Trailfinder,”
has been broadcasting over WJZ and the blue network
from coast to coast on Wednesdays from 11:15 to 11:30
a series of religious talks under the auspices of the Na-
tional Broadcasting Company and the Federal, State and
Local Councils of Churches of America.

1914

Fausto GUITERREZ has been elected
a member of Congress from the Havana
district of Cuba. He was a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity while a
student at Washington and Lee. Jose
Caminero, ’16, was also a candidate but
his party, the Centrist Party, a minority
party, did not succeed. He received
several thousand votes, although not
enough for election. He says that he is
happy, however, inasmuch as Washing-
ton and Lee is so well represented in
the person of Fausto Guiterrez, a liberal. Mr. Caminero
was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity here.

SAMUEL O. LAUGHLIN, JR., has two sons who will
be future students at the University, Samuel O. Laugh-
lin, III, now five years old, and William Philip Laughlin,
born February 27, 1936. Sam, Sr., has been elected to
the executive committee of the Wheeling Dollar Sav-
ings and ‘Trust Co., largest bank in the state of West
Virginia; also was elected a member of the Board of
Hazel Atlas Glass Co., second largest glass company in
the country whose stocks sell on the New York Stock
Exchange.

1915

L. S. ANDERSON is a member of the firm of L. S.
Anderson Co., Inc., Mayfield, Ky., selling Buick and
Pontiac cars.

Woopson Hovucuron is a member of the law firm of
Ellis, Houghton & Ellis, Southern building, Washing-
ton, D. C.

Cart C. WuRzBACH is practicing law with offices in
the Brady building, San Antonio, Texas.

 

James E. Bear is teaching in the Union Theological
Seminary, Richmond, Va.

J. W. MILner is with the Coca-Cola Bottling Com-
pany, Gulfport, Miss.

J. R. Neat was in Lexington with his wife and
daughter for Finals.

(1916

Witey D. Forsus, protessor of pathology and head
of the department of pathology in the Duke University
School of Medicine, has recently been elected a member
of the National Board of Medical Examiners.

The National Board of Medical Examiners, with
headquarters in Philadelphia, comprises a membership
of 25 representing the army, navy, public service, state
board of medical examiners, the Asso-
ciation of Medical colleges, the Council
on Medical Education and other im-
portant medical organizations of the
United States.

Dr. Forbus will serve as chairman
of the pathology division, and will pre-
pare questions relating to that field of
medicine to be included in the national
board’s examination for medical candi-
dates, beginning in 1937.

While at Washington and Lee Dr.
Forbus was a member of the Phi Gam-
ma Delta fraternity and was elected and
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa here.

LorENTz WHITE was quite sick in the early spring
but has recovered and is now back in Raleigh. He is with
the Motor Bearings & Parts Company at S. Salisbury
street.

LyNncH CHRISTIAN is with the Imperial Colliery
Company in their general offices in Lynchburg, Va.

HARRISON MAGRUDER lives at Woodstock, Va.

Bruce WooprvuFF is in partnership with Bill Ward
in the practice of law, with offices in the Healey build-
ing, Atlanta, Ga.

WENDELL MANN is practicing law in Ashland, Ky.
He is serving his second term as president of the Tri-
State Alumni Association of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. Last year he was first vice-president of the Boyd
County Bar Association and is now president of this

organization. He served six years as city attorney of
Ashland.

1917

Dr. G. Hotsrook BARBER is practicing his profession
at 57 Oxford street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

[ 27 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jimmi£é LEE is managing editor of Chemical Engi-
neering, a publication of McGraw Publishing Company,
330 W. 42nd street, New York, N. Y.

G. W. Ktuvz is practicing law at Lenoir, N. C.

Mitton Rocers is with the Community Water Ser-
vice Company, Inc., 100 William street, New York.

Bitty Cox is in the Department of Engineering Me-
chanics, School of Engineering, Yale University, New
Haven, Conn.

CHartigE McNirr is practicing medicine in New
York. His address is 114 East 62nd street.

Bos GARDNER is with the A. M. Byers Company,
manufacturers of genuine wrought iron products, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

FRANK J. GILLIAM is Dean of Students at Washing-
ton and Lee. .

1918

LEE VAUGHAN, JR., lives in Hartsville, S. C.

CHARLES PHILIP HANGER, JR., says he is making it
easier for men to die by selling them life insurance. He
is district agent for the Shenandoah Life of Roanoke
with headquarters in Staunton, Va.

A. B. BowMAN, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Simmonds and Bowman, Johnson City, Tenn.

M. W. Paxton, Jr., is practicing law and editing the
Rockbridge County News in Lexington, Va. He married
Nell Owen, of Lexington, and they have two sons, Matt,
Jr., and Bobbie.

1919

Joun R. Topp is practicing law in Kingsport, Tenn.,
very successfully. He was married in 1922 and says Mrs.
Todd and two sons are real assets. He is serving his third
term in the Tennessee Senate.

S. STEINER SMITH is secretary-treasurer of Smith-
McKenny Company, wholesale and retail druggists in
Shelbyville, Ky. Says: “I have done nothing startling.”

Jimmy Fain says: “I am still Jimmy Fain, 39 years
old, president of the Morris Plan Bank, Winston-Salem,
married, two children, Jimmy, eight, and Lucy, five.”

1920

Henry Forpv Trorrer, who has been in the mercan-
tile business at Monticello, Ark., since leaving Washing-
ton and Lee University, is now head of H. F. Trotter,
Inc., Ford Sales & Service, at Pine Bluff. Henry married
Miss Lucille Simmons, of Pine Bluff, who formerly at-
tended Hollins College. They have four children. Henry

says that he has seen Galli Paxton, Bill and Tex Bryant
and others from Washington and Lee. He hopes that
some day he may come back to Virginia and we assure
him that the latch string is out.

E. P. Kinc has been with the Bureau of Internal
Revenue, Washington, D. C., for the past fifteen years.
His address is 3921 Fulton street.

Criaupe C. Jones, of Arcadia, Fla., is a candidate for

_ the office of State Superintendent of Public Instruction

of Florida.

Tuomas M. (Mac) Stusss is with Neely, Mar-
shall and Green, law firm, in Atlanta, Ga., and tells us
that he does not have much news since last year. Mac
recently visited Rube Lewis in Glencoe, Ill. He also sees
Hope Stark and Bruce Woodruff occasionally, Mac is a
loyal alumnus and we always appreciate hearing from
him and particularly the assistance which he gave us
this year. |

Horr D. Stark is practicing law in Lawrenceville,
Ga., which is located only a short distance north of
Atlanta.

Joun Dry is a member of the law firm of Larkin,
Rathbone & Perry, 70 Broadway, New York City. This
year John gets his fourth service stripe as a contributor
to Alumni, Inc. His loyalty is deeply appreciated by one
who loves and attempts to serve our Alma Mater. We
hope to welcome him to Virginia sometime and thank
him in person.

Orr R. Macruper, who is still a bachelor, is in the
banking business. He says he has had an uneventful year
and therefore has no news to give us. His address is 161
West 78th St., New York City.

DANIEL T. OrDEMAN is teaching English at the Ore-
gon State College at Corvallis, Ore.

J. M. Jennrncs lives at 323 Madison avenue, Ak-
ron, Ohio.

LestigE E. Keron is practicing medicine with his
father in Corsicana, Texas.

Preston L,. ConNER, who lives at St. Johnsbury, Vt.,
is married and has two sons, aged nine and fourteen.

Jacos H. Harran is married and living at 308 Kline
street, Covington, Va.

RussEtt G. NEsBiT? is a member of the law firm of
Nesbitt and Nesbitt, Wheeling, W. Va. He is married.

GrorcE J. IrwIn is teaching French at Washington
and Lee University. We had him classified as a confirm-
ed bachelor, but he changed over last year and is already
immersed in gardening and other domestic pastimes.

[ 28 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Harry L. Moore has been head of the poultry de-
partment at V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va., for the past
eight years.

Homer S. (Buck) Bryant is in the wholesale coal
business and is located in the Lynch building, Lynchburg,
Va. Buck attended the meeting of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association in Lynchburg last January.

Jor ENGLEpy is practicing law in Roanoke, Va., with
offices in the Shenendoah Life Insurance Company build-
ing. He is a loyal alumnus and extends a helping hand
to his Class Agent.

T. SELDEN JoNEs (SHRIMP) is practicing law in the
First National Bank building in his home town, Hunt-
ington, W. Va. He has helped Washington and Lee often
and in many ways and recently has been assisting one
of our prominent sons, Rocky Holt, in se-
curing the Democratic nomination for gov-
ernor of West Virginia. We understand
that Rocky, who is at present Attorney
General of West Virginia, was nominated
for Governor by a large majority.

1921

A. MILLING BERNSTEIN has been prac-
ticing law at Monroe, La., with the firm
of Hudson, Potts and Bernstein since grad-
uation at Washington and Lee University.
He is married and has two children, a boy _
nine years old and a girl seven.

O. B. Simmons, Jr., is a member of
the firm of Evans, Mershon & Sawyer, attorneys-at-law,
Miami, Fla., with offices in the First National Bank bldg.

Sam L. RAINEs, since leaving here, has graduated
from the University of Tennessee; had five years post-
graduate work including two years at Dr. Crile’s Clinic
in Cleveland, Ohio; and has practiced medicine since
1931. He was married in 1930 and has three boys. His
home is at 1834 Madison avenue.

Wittiam A. Grppsons, JR., resigned last October
from the Mortgage Loan Department of the Prudential
Insurance Company, and is doing mortgage loan work
for the Liberty Trust Co., of which Harold G. Robert-
son, ’20, is president. In addition to this work he manages
the six-story office building owned by the Liberty Trust
Company, Roanoke, Va.

1922

Dr. RicHArD E. SHERRILL, associate professor of
geology at the University of Pittsburgh, has been trans-
ferred to the School of Mines as acting head of the de-

[

  
 

partment of oil and gas during the absence of Professor
H. C. George, on sick leave.

W. E. Nes err is practicing law in Lunenburg, Va.
EpGAR JACKSON is teaching school in Norfolk, Va.

CuHarLes M. CampsBE.vt has recently purchased an
interest in Frank R. Parks & Brother, merchandise brok-
ers, Lexington, Ky.

1923

Av McCarrny is practicing law in Miami, Fla., in

partnership with Lewis Twyman.

Av Prerorri is living at 270 Beach street, Revere,
Massachusetts.

CHARLES H. Ross spent a year or more in Germany,
after graduation at Washington and Lee University, at
Tuebingen University and later took his
law degree at Ohio State University. Has
been practicing law in Tampa since his ad-
mission to the bar in 1927.

G. E. Harris is doing outstanding work
in radio. His address is 73 Perry street,

>. ¥# New York City.
. ¥. /
ek AvucusTINE C. (Gus) BRYAN is with
i the Provident Life & Accident Insurance
*** — Co., Chattanooga, Tenn.

1924

Joe McMars lives at 515 Wyoming
avenue, Wyoming, Cincinnati, Ohio.

JoHN ANDREW CUMMINS is manager of the Ches-
apeake & Potomac Telephone Co., of Virginia, at Clar-
endon, Va.

1925

CLARENCE HINKLE is a member of the law firm of
Hervey, Dow & Hinkle, Roswell, N. M.

GrorcE T. CLARK is a member of the firm of Clark
and Ellis, attorneys-at-law, Ingraham building, Miami,
Florida.

1926
Rospert O. BENTLEY, JR., is a counsellor at law, Peo-

ples Trust building, Hackensack, N. J.

J. K. Tomas is a member of the law firm of Ritchie,
Hill & Thomas, Security building, Charleston, W. Va.
He has recently completed the building of a very hand-
some home near Charleston.

1927

Bos Fores is with the Thompson-Sterling Company,
distributors of General Electric appliances, Louisville, Ky.

29 |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Jor E. Brenig is executive secretary and treasurer
of the Morris Plan Bank, Richmond, Va.

J. D. Morrison went from Washington and Lee to
the University of Oklahoma in 1927, where he received
the degree of M.A. in 1931. He is teaching in Poteau,
Okla..—Senior High Principal of Poteau High school.

1928

FreD PEARSE, JR., is practicing law with his father
in Newark, N. J. He lives in Metuchin, N. J. His young
son, Monty, learned to swim in the Washington and Lee
pool last summer.

CHARLES HENRY LINDForRS’ address is Sweet build-
ing, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Bos MILLER is practicing law in the firm of Miller
& Miller, Gonzales, Texas.

HERBERT BUTLER is manager of the Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Co., 5 Light street, Baltimore, Md.

FREDERICK CHURCHILL MELLEN, after leaving
Washington and Lee, attended law school at Columbia
and the University of Virginia, and was admitted to the
bar of Florida in 1932; practiced law privately for a
short time; became assistant county solicitor for Es-
cambia county, Florida, which position he held for two
years, and is now back in private practice. He lives in
Pensacola, Fla.

1929

Appison NicKEy has moved to Dothan, Ala., where
he is operating a saw mill.

Louts A. HASKELL is in the Theological Seminary,
Alexandria, Va.

Lewis F. PowE t is with the law firm of Hunton,
Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore in the Electric
building, Richmond, Va.

Irwin T. SANDERS, as Dean of the American Col-
lege, Sofia, Bulgaria, has charge of 270 boys. He is
writing a book on the Bulgarian Village which will com-
prise his doctor’s dissertation at Cornell in the field of
Rural Sociology.

WitiiaM T. Brack, Jr., finished his internship at
the King’s County Hospital in Brooklyn, N. Y., in June.
His new address is Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago, III.

J. D. ConNELL is a cotton planter at Banks, Miss.
He is married and has a daughter six and one-half
years old.

1930

BILL STOUCHELL, JR., is practicing law in New York
in the firm of Alger, Peck and Grafton, 50 Broadway.

F. L. SHIPMAN is a member of the firm of Shipman
& Shipman, lawyers, in the Peoples Building & Savings
building, Troy, Ohio.

Morris MONTGOMERY is practicing law in Liberty,
Ky. He is in partnership with his father who is a mem-
ber of the class of 1904.

WitiiAM Watts (MIKE) PALMER is practicing law
in San Antonio, Texas. His firm is Moursund, Ball,
Moursund & Bergstrom, in the Frost National Bank
building. He says he has managed to take on a wife.

Ep Bostwick has been employed by the Travellers
Insurance Company since leaving college. He is in the
Mutual building, Richmond, Va. Was married in June,
1934.

Hupert Ecuotrs is at 312 Postoffice building, Roa-
noke, Va.

Britt HAWKINS is with the credit and collection de-
partment of E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Company, Wil-
mington, Del.

KENNETH KEIL is a representative of the Penn Mu-
tual Life Insurance Company, Springfield, III.

Davin MoreTon is running a saw mill in Brook-
haven, Miss. Says he is in the market for a good-looking
girl who would like to move to the country.

Brtt TarRANT is living at 412 Stuart Circle, Rich-
mond, Va.

SrmMon WENDER is with Wender’s Department Store,
Woodstock, Va.

LAWRENCE Foove is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Fla., with offices in the Law Exchange building.

J. C. Wurtson is in the insurance business at Tal-
ladega, Ala.

1931

FrED PALMER was in Lexington in April with his
bride who was Miss Gladys Dowdell, of Yonkers, N. Y.
Fred is teaching history in one of the Yonkers High
schools. He received his M. A. from Columbia and this
summer started work on his Ph. D. His address is 43
Oak street, Yonkers, N. Y.

JoHn W. Myrose is doing graduate work at the
Union Theological Seminary in New York. He spent
the summer in Atlantic City, N. J.

BrapFrorp FE. HALty is with the Mercantile Bank,
Louisiana, Mo.

C. H. McMILtan is with the D’Arcy Advertising
Company, Missouri Pacific building, St. Louis, Mo.

[ 30 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

CHAN GorRDON is in the wholesale coal business trav-
eling out of East Lansing, Mich. His address is Box 226.

LEONARD C. BorLanp is a D.D.S., at 2525 Smalley
Court, Chicago, Ill.

1932

Joun C. Harris is in the wholesale grocery business
in Scottsboro, Ala.

Paut H. Worrorp, Jr., is with the Cherokee Floor-
ing Co., of Burlington, N. C.

L. H. NorMAN was married December 19, 1935. He
is with the Lion Oil Refining Co., El Dorado, Ark.

Jack G. Marks was admitted to the practice of law
in the State of New York on March 9, 1936, and is asso-
ciated with the firm of Harsh, Newman, Reass & Beck-
er, 39 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Mervin H. Kempton was instruc-
tor and supervisor of adult education
in Sing-Sing Prison from 1933 to 1934;
and director of adult education in Yon-
kers, N. Y., from 1934 to the present
time. He has also been municipal advisor
to the adult education program in the
town of Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.
He is enrolled in the graduate school of
Teachers College, Columbia University,
and will receive a degree of M.A. in
Adult Education in September, 1936.

Dick PARMELEE is manager of Col-
gate Inn at Hamilton, N. Y., and Gen-
eral Worth hotel, Hudson, N. Y..

GrorcE Morsk completed his medical course at the
University in June, and has an appointment on the surg-
ical staff of Union Memorial hospital in Baltimore, Md.

GrorcE WILLIAM SCHNATH is practicing dentistry
at 708 Church street, Evanston, Ill.

SHERWOOD WISsE has been practicing law in Jackson,
Miss., since leaving school. He is junior member of the
firm of Wells, Wells and Lipscomb.

Rosert B. CHAMPLIN is in the dental supply busi-
ness with the L. D. Caulk Co., and is credit manager of
the Newark branch. He announced a “Blessed Event”
in the arrival last May of Bobbie, Jr.

Leicuton McKinney has moved from Little Rock,
Ark., to Denison, Texas, and is in the real estate and
insurance business.

1933

GrorcE H. Srrauss, Jr., is practicing law at 287
Main street, Norwich, Conn., with reasonable success,

 

having done unusually well in trial work. He expects to
be a candidate for the Connecticut Legislature this year.
He says, “I am still “batting along’ in Norwich and pick-
ing up some law business now and then.” Unmarried.

Donatp K. CrawrForp is practicing law at Elkins,
W. Va. He has been elected chairman of the Athletic
Council of Davis and Elkins college. Of this office he
says, “It has been a headache and there weren't any pills
furnished with the office.”’ His chief job seems to be to
get athletics on a sound financial basis. Unmarried. Of
himself he says: “Hair getting thinner, getting that
middle age spread and more set in my ways.”

JeromME Framptom, JR., practiced law in Baltimore
for over two years, but due to the death of his brother
resigned associate membership of the firm to return home
to become a member of the firm of J.
J. Framptom & Son, funeral directors.
In the meantime he has graduated from
the American Academy of Embalming
and Mortuary Research, New York
City and at the present time is actively
engaged in the funeral directing busi-
ness and practicing law on the side. .

BERNARD B. Davis is a member of
_ the law firm of Gilbert and Davis, Shel-
— byville, Ky. “Gratified” with the pro-
gress he has made so far. Says that his
law partner is a man of real ability and
a prominent politician.

Topp DEVAN, II, is completing his
senior year in medicine at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, and at the same time serving a
junior internship in Joseph Price Memorial Hospital,
Philadelphia.

Joun L. Ericson is practicing law in the Leonard
building, New Britain, Conn. Married.

G. Witt1am Musser, of Indiana, Pa., graduated
from the School of Law, Dickinson College, Carlisle,
Pa., in June.

1934

Jimmy DurnHam, of Memphis, turned tennis pro in
June and has established headquarters at the University
Club of Memphis.

Henry FE. Aten is back from El Paso after two
years with the International Border Commission, and is
working in the State Department, Washington, D. C.
His home is in Bethesda, Md.

Joe WALKER, JR., is with the firm of Joseph Walker
& Co., cotton merchants, Columbia, S. C. .

[ 31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

Tommy ANDERSON is practicing law with the firm of
Andrews, Kelly, Kurth & Campbell, Gulf building, Hous-
ton, Texas.

PHIL SERAPHINE is in the newspaper business with
The Baltimore Sun, Baltimore, Md.

LAYNE Forp is practicing law in Grafton, W. Va.

RuGE DEVAN is in the insurance business with his
father in Charleston, W. Va.

Joun F. SHRopER was married to Miss Ruth Grif-
fin in Dorset, Vermont, September 26. Charlie Pritchard,
1934, and Ken McDonald, 1936, were ushers at the wed-
ding.

1935

HERBERT GRIFFITH is with the advertising depart-
ment of The Washington Post. His address is 3133 Con-
necticut avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

L. P. Evernart has been employed as a chemist at
the duPont Ammonia Plant at Belle, W. Va., for about
eight months. Tom Boland, Sam Clark, Ed Seitz, and
Bob Tolbert are some of the Washington and Lee men
there.

THomas E. Sparks is practicing law in Little Rock,
Ark., with offices in the Boyle building.

CLAIBOURNE DARDEN is working in the O’Henry ho-
tel, Greensboro, N. C., of which his father is president.

Rop Harris is in Bridgeport, Ala., with the Jacobs
Manufacturing Co., learning the stove business from the
ground up.

Ep Bonp is with Peaslee and Brigham, 501 Fifth
Ave., New York, and attending New York University
part time.

P. C. Marues, Jr., has changed his address from
Louisville, Ky., to 404 Massey building, Birmingham,
Alabama.

Tom Morris is working in the purchasing depart-
ment of the International Harvester Company, in La
Grange, III.

1936

DoucLas MuNHALL entered the Wharton School at
the University of Pennsylvania after leaving Washing-
ton and Lee University.

GEORGE Harrison is working with the A. T. Barnes
Funeral Home, Inc., in Henderson, N. C.

ALFRED H. WISHNEW has completed a year in St.
Johns University law school, and is planning to complete
his course there and practice law.

DutcH RIgGER is Eradication Foreman in connec-
tion with the Dutch Elm disease under the supervision
of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. His address is
337 Lincoln avenue, Lyndhurst, N. J.

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN

BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted

Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry Borry

was published in March, 1936, of
special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee

$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

[ 32 |

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni
of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact
business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of
specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to

 

place their cards in this directory.

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson
Attorney-at-Law
Marcum and Gibson

First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal

Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

OT? SP A eee

 

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building

Atlanta, Georgia

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

 

one or two openings for

 

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

exceptionally good college men.
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.

Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency.

There are usually

Applications from Washington

 

 

 

~aint got time for

Made by Liccett & Myers Tospacco CoMPANY—and you can

loose ta

  
    

Al

plenty to spare

CARDHER

depend on a Liggett

they ve got LASTE-

& Myers product

i a i i a

a a

ee

