te Alumni Magazine

of Washington and Lee University

 

CHEMISTRY BUILDING

WASH “a4
~% oC a LJ a ¥ cY idol vf

Ly iNi} ERS] i x
LEXIN GTON, VA,

lume VI [Number +
Marc

{ 250 a ear

—_/

“
—
‘SO
Oo

 

-

=<

oA oa as

Tet

A
a ed

eee es

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards

in the directory. Rates on application.
R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 4. ian
Suite 303 eo nee Bank Deveias. Oman &. Doves
Adgniss Cie FEF Building ' s Yc
tlantic City, N. J. Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.
: Bluefield, W. Va. 7 g
PHILIP P. GIBSON, ’13-’15, Lawyer ' ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
General practice in all State ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 25. - -apipesirsade
-29 itizens National Bank
and Federal Courts 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building | Buildin g
Suite 814 Union Bank & Trust Co. ;
Atlanta, Georgia Parkersburg, W. Va.

Bldg., Huntington, West Va.

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Citrus Exchange Building.
Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building

TF , Florid
ampa, I‘lorida Roanoke, Virginia

mchburg, Virginia
W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21 Lynchburg J

James E. Smitherman

cl John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
Compliments of the President of David E. § mithe

 

 

, Sam W. Mason
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE the Alumni, Inc. SMITHERMAN, T UCKER & MASON
; Law Offices
E. C. CAFFREY, ‘09 Commercial National Bank

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.

District of Columbia and Federal Suite 881 Mills Building

H. B. Moore, Principal

Departments i or
Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California , |
1100 Investment Building Telephone Sutter 3363 J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.

Washington, D. C.

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, 710
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Miami, and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are
usually 1 or 2 openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. & L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

NED GRAHAM, 712 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a
Century

LEXINGTON POO)
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT
W. & L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES |

 

 

 

 

“McCRUMS” For the Sake of Auld

As Always the Gathering Place Of
F . Syne

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE Order a Virginia Smoke

Cured Ham

From
Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets) ;
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1. 0
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.56

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

E. C. Carrrey, President E. L. GRAHAM, JR., Treasurer Harry K. Younce, Editor
VOL. VI MARCH, 1931 NO. 4
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.
G:ONT ENS

PAGE PAGE
Alumm. Groups -Agetees: (35236 ae ehed:.....2 2 Witten Outlines Plans for Finals.........00.000000000... 23
Two Alem eshared ::%c4. coe ek 7 »ix Debates on Schedule...........0.....chui.c.... 23
Judge,'Groner, Confirmed. y4 (0 4435h...h. cits: vei 8 Alumnus Candidate for Senate..........00000.00000 24
‘To Name Washington Committee...................... 8 Tucker Addresses Alummi.............cccccccccccccceeeceeee. 24
Alumnus Golfer Wins Laurels............0.00000000000 8 Press Protests Tyler’s Retirement................... 25
Robin bad Raney Cees” 9 ¥. mM. C, Agmpondave Held. ..cc.......,sianeses 25
. ige Age. Sicraaen -..... Soci .cs-.<..:..-camanad 26
W.. WAT eR RIGS Sa ooo co ooc cs ods scncnnccecee. 10 Judge est
Chemistry Club to go National............0...0.00000. 26
Dr. Samael Bo Gomera eS 10
Religious Lectures Givem................c:ccccccsseseeen 27
W. & L. Proud of Glasgow Menory.................. 11
Bi ell 27
Students Lived Simply in ’76..................cccceee 12
ae 1911 Law Class Publishes Annual............0....... 27
University Now Owns Liberty Hall................ 13 .
Peery. Adg@messes: Alemmintinis...6..0..00005:.c00 ll iakces 27
Generals Have Successful Winter Sports........ 14
. Presentation of Painting...................ccccccssssssssees 27
K. A's eet inerantien ns pc ees es 17
Celebrates Eightieth Birthday...........000000000000... 28
Pass New “Blection ' Rwlés/:3...00200.2.2..2:. 200k 17
; DEATHS:
W. & L. Journalism Given High Rating.......... 18
Jee eecker Lewis... i.3....20i0 code 22
Xudy’s Rendition Results in ’Ritten Row....... A? ASI SA OMTIB 220. S eco cckesiibcn lide oe 28
Campus = si tfROVORMINES «5. cenit... vicccis as cartiec 20 Archibald Magill Robinson...............:...... 28
Many Trees Beautify Campus.............00.0.0.00.. 20 William H. Mourning.................:ccceseeees 28
Fraternity Building Program...........cccccsssecsssee-0- 1 F iva cemigsiiiel ie sbep shes cgissindescssnasichshiden-nncdighedie 28
S. M. A. Wins Cage Tourney.............0.000:00000 22 Marriages tadstivcepstihnschvss oor siionetaore-suckrptensions 28

 

te

 

 

be AL. US iow

Alumni Groups Gather All Over Sout

PEAKING before
Washington and

Lee Alumni ‘ in
Washington, D. C., on Feb-
ruary 22, Dr. Francis Pen-
dleton Gaines completed a
tour during which he ap-
peared before alumni
throughout the South.
He spoke at Charlotte, N.
C.; Rome, Ga.; Atlanta,
Ga.; Birmingham, Ala.;
Memphis, Tenn.; Louis-
ville, Ky.; Charleston, W.
Va.; and Roanoke, Va., to
alumni, and at eleven prep
and high schools.

“The tour was quite
successful,’ Dr. Gaines said
upon his return.

In commenting on the spirit of the alumni Dr.
Gaines said, “The spirit of the alumni groups in the
different cities is fine. The loyalty of the alumni to
the school can not be put in too strong terms. I have
never seen anything like the affection the men have for
the school. Every banquet which the alumni gave was
filled to the point of overflowing.”

“The purpose of the trip,” Dr. Gaines stated, ““was
for me to meet the alumni and give them a chance to
meet me, and to interpret for them the conditions at
Washington and Lee as they are today.”

mense affection for it.

ney.

and is enduring.

Dr. Gaines said that it was necessary that the
alumni should understand the school and be behind it.
“Alumni are agents for getting the right kind of stu-
dents. Inthe future we will have to rely on them more
and more. ‘The alumni represent the constituency of
the school, because it is not a state school and has no
appeal to state pride, and no city affiliations. So the
friends must be the alumni.”

Dr. Gaines also said that every alumnus he spoke
to expressed himself as deeply grateful over the return
of DeHart and Tilson as football coaches.

The day that Dr. Gaines spent in Memphis was
declared Washington and Lee day. The Memphis
Commercial Appeal carried a long editorial on the
school and joined the alumni in welcoming him to the
city.

In his address in Memphis Dr. Gaines described
the University as being “primarily cultural but allowing
professional development; conserving the tradition of
southern life but welcoming boys from over the nation;

I

To the Alumni

Within the last sixty days, I have had the privil-
ege of visiting nine alumni groups.
is an unforgettable chapter of my life.

At every point I met with a graciousness of wel-
come and I received innumerable courtesies, as thought-
ful as they were generous.

More significant, however, is the inspiration I de-
rived from having a first-hand assurance of the inter-
est which alumni feel in the University, of their im-
I have been made happy and
I have been strengthened.

It is not possible for me to write personally to
each alumnus who contributed to the joy of my jour-
I trust that all will believe me when I say in
this somewhat general way that my gratitude is deep

FRANCIS P. GAINES.

University, made a . splendid talk on the W. & Ls

[2]

   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

MAGA Z Ia”

seeking to promote
tions of the scholar.
gentleman, the citizen,

In addition to Ah
gatherings, Dr. Gaines }
the following talks o;
recent tour of the

Atlanta: Tech
School, Boys High §«
Georgia Military Aca
Rome: Darlington §&
for Boys. Birmingl
Phillips High School, V
lawn High School.
phis: Tech High &
Central High School,
versity School,
Club. Louisville:
Manual ‘Training
Louisville Male
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. Washi
Southern Society, Rotary Club.

The experience

e

® rs
a
a

NEW ORLEANS

The usual enthusiastic and loyal group of Ne
leans Alumni enjoyed the regular annual dinn
Lee’s birthday, January 19. Arnaud’s Resta
famous for its French cooking, served the repas
the program was both inspiring and interesting.

Major John Crowley, of New Orleans, was a
ial guest of the occasion. Major Crowley is th
surviving member of the famous Louisiana Tiger
served as secret dispatch rider to President Davi
General Lee. He brought many interesting §
of the war with him and made an interesting inf
talk on the stirring events of his career. ¥

The speaker of the evening was Hon. Georg
Guion, a distinguished member of the Louisiana .
ni. He delivered an eloquent oration on Rob
Lee. Dr. J. E. Winston, of Newcomb College
feelingly on the great general and University pré
in responding to a toast to his memory.

Dean Douglas Anderson, of Tulane Universit}
represented his institution and this association é
inauguration of President Gaines in October, “I
with enthusiastic praise of the occasion and of tf
president. He also responded warmly to a 08
memory of Samuel Young, one of our member
passed away since our last meeting.

J. A. Williamson, ’30, now a law student at ”

|
|

»

tude were passed for all four.

 

¢ HE
—
day; and others reminisced briefly on their college

days: The meeting adjourned after the singing of the

“Swing” and the giving of W. & L. yells.

A thrilling message by wire came from President
Gaines, and a fine letter from Dean Campbell reciting
the wonderful promise for a bright future under the
new president’s leadership. An appreciative message
from “Cy” Young was much enjoyed. An interesting
letter was also read from Waldo B. Utley, Jr., our
scholarship student this year. Resolutions of grati-
The return of “Pete”
Hamilton to the city was an occasion of rejoicing.

In spite of the unavoidable absence of many of the

_ regulars from sickness, the attendance was above the
average.

Among the absentees were T. J. Bartlette,
George Hill, Lazu Block, Rev. W. McF. Alexander,

Captain H. H. Harvey, W. L. O. Whaley, J. M. and
W. B. Wisdom, W. A. Shell, and J. Bonner Gladney.

The annual election resulted in the re-election of the
present officers: Dr. H. M. Blain, president; Dean
Douglas Anderson, and Norton Wisdom, secretary.

Those present were: Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug,
Ben Eastwood, Elmore Dufour, A. B. McBride, Doug-

Jas Anderson, W. F. Smith, B. Palmer Orr, James

Boyd, Eugene C. Nabors, W. K. Gladney, J. G. Mc-
Clure, O. H. Breidenbach, R. W. Hendrix, H. M.
Butler, F. P. Hamilton, Elbert Harral, Luke Davidge,
Norton Wisdom, G. $. Guion, J. A. Williamson, Char-
les Smith, H. M. Blain, Dr. J. E. Winston, Major
John Crowley.

FORT WORTH.

Alumni of Fort Worth, Texas, and vicinity, held a
delightful dinner at the Hotel Blackstone on the eve-
ning of January 19th. The affair was sponsored by
Cameron Shropshire and Sidebottom McCord.

The following alumni were present:

Judge I. W. Stephens, ’72, 800 8th Ave., Fort

Worth ‘Texas.

Emmett R. Conner, 90, 1011 Houston St., Fort
Worth, ‘Texas.
Gaylord J. Stone, ’10, 417 River Crest Drive, Fort
Worth, Texas.
Wyatt C. Hedrick, 10, 1005 1st National Bank
Building, Fort Worth, Tex.
George E. Miller, ’11, 1606 Sunset Terrace, Fort
Worth, ‘Texas.
Eddie Parks Davis, ’15, 1709 Lucille St., Wichita,
alls, ‘Texas.
Evan S. McCord, ’17, Box 675, Fort Worth, ‘Texas.
Rudy Copeland, ’21, 3228 Green St., Fort Worth,
Cxas,
James R. Thomas, ’23, 3100 Wabash Ave., Fort
Orth, Texas.
Cameron E. Shropshire, ’24, 1405 Fort Worth Na-

tional Bank, Fort Worth, Texas.
| [3]

ee Ase UN YD

na Aw - GO A 2 aaa

James W. McCartney, ’24, Brownwood, Texas.

Leslie Storey Stemmons, ’27, 100 N. Rosemont,
Dallas, ‘Texas.

Ernest E. Sanders, ’27, 8th Floor Burnett Bank
Building, Fort Worth, Texas.

Virgil Fisher, ’28, Wichitia Falls, Texas.

Norman R. Crozier, ’28, 4512 St. Johns St., Dallas,
‘Texas.

Harry C. Rand, ’29, 3341 Park Ridge Drive, Fort
Worth, Texas.

LYNCHBURG.

Lynchburg alumni of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, with several distinguished visitors as guests, met
on the evening of Jan. 20th at Boonsboro Country
House in annual banquet, observing the anniversary of
the birth of Robert E. Lee.

T’. Gibson Woodson, president of the Lynchburg
association, presided. Seated at the speaker’s table
were Judge J. S$. McDermott of New York, Dr. Bol-
ling Lee grandson of General Lee, Judge Louis Epes
of the Virginia supreme court, Judge George Peery of
the Virginia corporation commission, and James R.
Caskie of Lynchburg, members of the university board
of trustees; James DeHart, football coach, Dr. Robert
W. Miles, pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church
and D. A. L. Wilson of Lynchburg. Others who made
talks were “Cy” Young, alumni secretary, “Tex” Til-
son, former football star at Washington and Lee, now
assistant coach at Duke University, and R. D. Ramsey,
business manager of Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce.

Mr. Woodson was re-elected president at the brief
business session which preceded the speaking and Reed
Graves and A. L,. Burger were re-elected vice presi-
dent and secretary-treasurer respectively.

W.W. Manley played Washington and Lee tunes at
the piano, the banqueters joining in singing.

Judge McDermott, the chief speaker, spoke of the
Washington ter-centennial celebration to be held in 1932
and suggested preparations be started at once for Wash-
ington and Lee to have proper and adequate representa-
tion. He also told of Columbia University’s plan for
honoring distinguished alumni and suggested a similar
undertaking by Washington and Lee.

John W. Davis who was expected to be present was
detained in New York on business and President
Francis Pendleton Gaines was reported confined to his
home by illness.

Alumni present at Banquet:

Richard H.Anderson, Oscar B. Barker, Jr., R. Max
Barker, H. S. Bryant, Harry Bumgardner, A. L. Bur-
ger, Charles E. Burks, James R. Caskie, J. S. Caskie,
Thomas W. Gilliam, Carter Glass, Jr., Henry B. Glass,
P. Powell Glass, Robert C. Glass, Clairborne W. Gooch,
Jr., Reid E. Graves, Don P. Halsey, S. Garland Ham-
ner, John G. Haythe, Irvine M. Lynn, William Lynn,

Lt Fv & A DL ia 1
Joseph P. McCarron, Frederick W. McWane, W. W.
Manley, Jr., P. R. Massie, Maurice Moore, A. W.
Mosby, Jr., James T. Noel, Dr. S. E. Oglesby, W. G.
Pendleton, Dr. Mosby G. Perrow, A. D. Pettyjohn, Dr.
David R. Phelps, R. D. Ramsey, Cornelius M. Rob-
erts, B. T. Smith, W. T. Spencer, Jr., T. F. Torrey,
Aubrey E. Strode, C. B. Wiltshire, David E. Witt, E.
M. Wood, Jr., R. C. Wood, T. Gipson Woodson, Ash-

ton Powell, Robert A. Russell, Dr. A. L. Wilson (hold-
ing Honorary Degree),

 
    
   
  
   
 
  
 

MAGA Z tia

The Chapter has in these three officers, three of
most outstanding Alumni that I know of anyw
certainly in North Carolina, and I feel that it wy
an active and enthusiastic chapter from now on, q

I am enclosing herewith a list of the Alumni pre
for your records. 4

We sincerely regret that you were unable to be
ent with us, and the universal disappointment was
pressed when it was found you were unable to be j

ent; however, it we

 

Rev. Robert W. Miles

delightful meeting ”

 

(holding Honorary De-
gree).

CHARLOTTE

Another letter to
Mr. Young, from Tom

What Is Enthusiasm ?

 

 

We would like to print a list of Enthusiastic Alumni,
but it is unnecessary,—everybody knows who they are.

The student who entered whole-heartedly into every
phase of his university life; who wore his freshman cap with
jauntiness and style, who was not ashamed to be interested ‘in

    
   
 

we trust that on a fy
occasion we can ]
both you and Dr. G
with us. 4
Very truly ye r
TOM GLASGO

Glasgow, of the Char-
lotte, N. C., Alumni As-

sociation. tells of Dr, 25 of his college days, is now the alumnus whose interest Supper: |

Gaines’ i ~ 5, ae is still keen although he has passed from the walls af Alma Dr. F. P. Glas

At cicy, Mater. Dr. Wm. Allan,
As a student he was a part of his college life, and Tom Mott Alexa

Feb. 12, 1931.
My dear Cy:

Want to report on
the meeting held here on
Tuesday, January 27th
when Dr. Gaines, Presi-
dent of Washington and
Lee, addressed an or-
ganization meeting of
the Charlotte Alumni.

We had some 23 of
the Alumni in this sec-
tion present at an infor-
mal luncheon held in
the Charlotte Manufacturers’ Club. The meeting was
informal and delightful throughout. Of course, the
outstanding event of interest to all of us was the talk
made by Dr. Gaines giving us the picture of Washing-
ton and Lee as it now is, and as his ideal holds for the
projecting of it in the future. Needless to say the en-
tire group were delighted and carried away with the
personality and with the views of Dr. Gaines as he
presented them at the meeting. |

I. P. “Nuts” Graham of Cooleemee was present at
the meeting, he and Bill Allen, Doc Coles, Ran Pres-
ton, Tom Alexander and others present made short
talks and expressed interest or made inquiries with re-
gard to the University’s activity along various lines.
At the close of the meeting it was decided to organize
a regular alumni chapter here, and on motion duly made,
Dr. William Allen was elected President of the chap-
ter, ““Nuts’’ Graham Vice President and Tom Alex-
ander Secretary and Treasurer.

coming “‘bull-sessions.”

ia4q

his studies; he, whether he was a “campus leader’’ or not,
was thrilled over his fraternity, athletics, and all other enthusi-

therefore, as an alumnus he has something to re-live inHome-
He is thilled over an athletic vic-
tory, a donation to the endowment, a possible addittion to
next year’s squad of a likely high school star.
on to the Alumni Office news of fellow alumni who are gain-
ing positions of honor and advancement in the world, and
who themselves are the last to let us have such information.
He was a “‘live-one”’ then,—he is not a “dead-one” now.

Let us register our appreciation of the enthusiast.
The nil-admirari may be the fashion, but we admit our lean-
ings are toward the fellow who is not ashamed to express
his loyalties and appreciations, and enthusiasms.

List of Washin
and Lee Alumni

&

   
  
  
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
  
  
    
  
   
  

22; Philip Howe
25; Robert A. We
16; Dr. Frank |
Miller, "99; Jame:
Elms, ’24; E. Pog
"04; W. N. Wilkins
Belmont, N. C.39
C. Hunter, 715;
Glasgow, °12; Ed.
ler, 15; Dr. Vann
thews, 14; Dr. R
McKnight, 14; J. ©.
Pheeters, 03; Ran.
ton, 02; W. H. &
‘18; Dr. Preston White, ’17; Jimmie Wilkinse 1,
kk. J. Walker; Lewis Musgrove, ’21; L. W.)
son, 406 N. Mendenhall St., Greensboro, N. C.
Phillips, High Point, N. C., ’16; W. A. To
High Point, N. C., ’°29; Edmund F. Bell, 111 Wa
Spartanburg, S. C.; J. B. Gorden, Box 1205, Ask
N. C., ’23; W. B. Meacham, Jr., Fort Mill, S. Cy
Irwin P. Graham, Cooleemee, N. C., ’09; W. i.
son, Duke University, Durham, N. C.; H. A. il
Box 374, Rock Hill, S. C., 713; James DeHart, ]
University, Durham, N. C., ’26. a

He passes

BIRMINGHAM

The value of alumni in carrying forward the:
ditions of their alma mater cannot be overestimé
said Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of
ington and Lee University, in his talk Friday m
Feb. 6, at the banquet tendered him by the Birt

tT HE 4 UM ON

I

m A G A Ze

 

 —_——

ham Alumni Association at the Southern Club.

“The character and ability shown by alumni in
the pursuit of their careers always will remain the fund-
amental test of any educational institution,” he said.
“That is one tenet which is interwoven in the history
of Washington and Lee University.

“Our university began as a primary school in the
pre-Revolution period. Later, through an endowment
from George Washington, it became a secondary school
and was given the privilege of bearing his name. Since
then, through every year in the nation’s life, its alumni
have occupied high places and done invaluable work
in the United States.

“We were privi-
ledged in having Gen.
Robert E. Lee serve
as our president for
the five years preced-
ing death. The
noble example of his
life and ideals is em-
bodied in the tradition
and culture of the
school. Our aim,
handed down from
him, is to obtain the
cream of American
youth in Washington
and lee University
classes. By that, we
mean those who are
gentlemen, whether
rich or poor.”

Dr. Gaines closed
short outline
of the policies which
are being pursued in
the University’s ad-
ministration.

his

with a

The speaker was
introduced by Judge
W. H. Tayloe, of Uniontown, Ala., of the class of
1873, who was a student during the presidency of Gen-
eral I.ee. Other speakers were W. R. J. Dunn, Bir-
mingham, and T. J. Kyle, class of 1884, Gadsden.

L.. R. Hanna, ’14 was in charge of the banquet ar-
rfangements. Mr. Tom Bowron, of Birmingham, and
Judge Wm. H. Tayloe, of the class of ’75, of Union-
town, Ala., were special guests of honor.

The following alumni were present:

Beach M. Chenoweth, 09, Douglas P. Wingo, ’23,
H. B. Glass, ’26, Robert F. Burnett, °12, Roberick
Beddow. 12, Tom Lee Ball, ’12, James Howze Bryan,
21, Frank C. Adams, ’27, Raleigh M. Jenkins, Jr.,
24, Edward Aull, ’23, John V. Coe, Jr., ’25, James L,.
Howerton, 15, Edward M. Street, ’28, Allen Rushton,
35, Darby H. Brown, Jr., ’25, Noble B. Hendrix, ’21,

 

Dr. GAINES MrEts JuDGE TAYLOE

[5]

city.

J. R. Hendrix, ’26, Henry P. Johnston, ’29, Charles
W. Griffin, Jr., 24, T. S. Kyle, ’84, Walter M. Hood,
10, W. R. J. Dunn, ’07, Courtney S. Henley, ’11, A.
C. Bryan, ’23, Sorsby Jemison, 09, Wm. H. Tayloe,
75, William J. Rushton, ’21, Ellis Mitchell Porter, ’30,
W. E. Coe, ’29, Thomas T. Hassell, ’14, W. Bester
3rown, ’30, John F. Hendon, ’24, Wm. L. Hogue, 712,
Borden Burr, ’98, Luther E. Reynolds, Jr., ’25, L. M.
Harrison, ’27, H. Ogden Shropshire, ’23, R. H. Carr,
‘23, Chas. H. Miller, ’22, Perry W. Turner, ’10, Bishop
W. G. McDowell, ’02.

Judge William H. Tayloe describes the Birmingham
banquet in the follow-
ing letter to the
Alumni Magazine,
which he greets as:

Uniontown, Alabama
Feb. 13, 1931.

Dear Maggie:

Please answer a
query. Sometime
since Dr. Smith is re-
ported to have decreed
that no one _ should
attend W. and L. U.
who did not pledge
observance of the pro-
hibition law. Was such
an order ever issued?
If so, is it in force

oe :
a
“=

oe
:
:&
3
a
4
a
®

now? If not who re-
scinded it? (Judge
Tayloe is misin-

formed as no such or-
der was ever issued).

I am a _ prohibi-
tionist all right, or
rather a local option-
ist; that is what we
have now; what we
always have had and what we shall continue to have.
But I agree with Socrates that all men should obey the
law—and women too. But I wish I were as close to Old
Weiss’s vineyard of Baumgardner’s distillery as I used
to be some sixty years ago ‘““when you and I were young
Maggie,” before you changed your name. And so I
approve the order. Just let me know about it.

And again: I took my years up to Birmingham
last Friday night to be present at a dinner given Dr.
Gaines by the Alumni.

The toastmaster was Mr. W. R. J. Dunn of the

He began the exercises after the feast by ask-
ing the man on his left to introduce himself, and the
introduction proceeded down the line and up to me who
was on the right of the Doctor who was to the right
of the toastmaster. When my turn came I introduced

Reet. A L ie 4

 
 

MAGA Z Tam

 

myself as the oldest person present; the only person
present who had attended Washington College ; the only
person present who had seen General Lee; the only
person present who had ever received personal or writ-
ten communication from him. At commencement in
1870 I won the scholarship in Latin, Greek and Mathe-
matics. I spoke of the wonderfully able men by whom
he had surrounded himself as a faculty,—the biggest
ever. And many other things.

And then the toastmaster called on me to introduce
the Doctor.

Fortunately I knew of a book he had written and
for which he had won a prize, and then we had some
friends in common, and his great career was in my
mind. I did the act pretty well; at least after it was
over the toastmaster reached around behind the Doctor
and congratulated me. And Henry Johnson had a
picture taken of me and the Doctor, which was printed
in the News of last Sunday.

I wish you had a list of those present. I knew
but few of them. Roderick Beddow was there. He
is now one of the leading members of the local bar.
Just that morning he had won the acquittal of Sam King
in a case growing out of a bank failure. Henry John-
ston was present. My presence is due to Henry, but
for him I should not have known of the occasion.
Henry is on the staff of the News, is very popular
and doing finely. You know the paper is owned by Dr.
Victor H. Hanson, his uncle, by marriage, who is one
of the wealthiest and most successful and best citizens
of the city. The News is his chief hobby,—next to
that is education, to which he has contributed much
time and money. And there was Tom Bowron, high
up in the counsels of the First National Bank, the larg-
est financial institution in the city. And Mr. Dunn,
the toastmaster, is among the leading citizens, one
whom the people delight to honor.

Dr. Gaines was at his very best; the impression he
made was great.

Excuse the garrulity of age.

All good things to you Maggie.

Affectionately,
W. H. TAYLOE.

MEMPHIS

The following letter from J. S. Edmondson, sec-
retary of the Memphis Alumni Association, to Cy
Young, Alumni Secretary, gives an account of the
Memphis meeting:

February 10, 1931.
Mr. Cy Young,
Alumni Secretary,

Dear Cy:
You will be interested to know that the largest al-
umni gathering that has ever been had in Memphis,

[6]

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

was that of the Washington-Lee Alumni meeting
evening, February 9th, at the University Club,
We had fifty-nine present to meet Dr. Gaine
newly elected President of Washington and Lee,
to hear him speak on Washington and Lee’s “Yester,
Today and Tomorrow.” ¥
The gathering was so large we filled not onl
large dining room of the University Club, but ¢
were forced to extend into the reception room, —
had an eight-piece orchestra and A. B. Kipmeyer
acted as ‘Toast-master-. 7
We are attaching hereto a list of those p
which included not only the majority of the Mer
Alumni, but those from Helena, Ark., Tunica |
Clarksdale, Mississippi and Brownsville, ‘Tennesse
We were all deeply impressed with Dr.
and especially with his remarks of Washington
Lee’s future. He is a broad-minded man of exce
executive ability, and the Memphis Alumni Associ
believe the trustees were amply rewarded by wai
until they could find a man of this type.
We have arranged for Dr. Gaines to speak at
various preparatory schools in this city today, and
are hopeful the message he will give these studell ;
be an inspiration for some of them to follow him o
Lexington. a
In addition to the Alumni list, we are enclosit
list of prospective students who have been recomme
to us by various members of the Alumni Associat
and at your convenience, you might see that pr
literature and other information is furnished ther
With best wishes from our Alumni Associat
we remain,
Yours very truly, |
MEMPHIS ALUMNI ASSOCIAT
WASHINGTON & LEE-MEMP.
By J. S. Edmondson, Sec’y. |

Washington-Lee Alumni attending banquet at
versity Club, Monday evening, February 9,
7 P.M.

J. E. Aydolotte, 19, Dr. W. H. Brandon, —
Worthington Brown, ’27, Warren C. Brown, 714,
N. Buford, ’21, Berry Brooks, ’24, W. P. Battle,
’30, J. D. Connell, ’29, Charles Colville, ’16, W.
Clark, ’31, Dolph Clark, ’24, Morton Felsenthal,
Arthur C. Fant, ’21, R. A. Fulton, ’26, Edward Fel
thal, ’24, Jno. Faison, 90, George Faison, ’90,
Faulkner, 715, Thos. W. Griffin, ’30, Abe -
Jr., ’24, Wm. G. Hall, 25, Wm. Houston, Jr., ’
W. Howe, ’24, R. M. Holt, ’27, Wm. E. Holt, 2, v
C. Jones, Jr., 28, Henry W. Jones, Jr., y
Knox, Jr., 29, A- B. Knipmeyer, ’01, J. F. ~
E. V. Monahan, ’28, J. T. Morgan, ’90, James 4
Knight, 31, Allen Morgan, ’29, F. R. McKnight, ©
Milledge Nail, ’24, A. B. Nickey, ’29, M. E. Newk

(Continued on page 29)

T HE wot: 4. mM ON

 

—

Two Alumni Featured

In Trade Publication

HE February number of The Burroughs
Clearing House, “A Magazine for Execu-

 

._|tives,” published by the Burroughs Adding
Machine Co., carries two articles of interest to alumni,
the men in question having attended Washington and
Lee at the same time.

“The Making of a Bank Officer,” by Monte J.Goble
W. and L., 1888-91, now vice-president of the Fifth
Third Union Trust Co., of Cincinnati, is an article
showing that the opportunity for preparation as a bank
official is better in a small bank than in one of the
larger city organizations. Mr. Goble says:

“The best place in which to qualify through ex-
perience in banking, is in a small bank,—one employ-
ing, say, from five to ten people, including the active
officers. ‘To support this contention I have to point
you to a great many outstanding officers in the biggest
banks in the country, who came up from country
banks.”’

Mr. Goble’s article shows that in a large bank the

employee _be-

4

comes~ ac-
quainted only
with the rou-
tine work of
his own small
section of the
organization,
while in a
smaller insti-
tution he is
in close touch
with every
phase of the
business of
the bank.

“If he
enters as a
runner, he is
soon taking a
turn on some
of the books,
and in a com-
paratively
short time he
is handling
other books,
and taking a
turn at the
window, serv-

 

MonvE J. GOBLE

[ 4]

 

Joun M. GraHaM

ing the public.

‘How rich, then, begins his experience!

“He is close by and overhears the officers in their
transactions with customers. He becomes in a very
short time an understudy in the duties of teller and as-
sistant cashier, and is getting the benefit of personal
contacts which, after all, is one of the very necessary
elements that must round out the efficient banking of-
ficer.”’

The second article is a most interesting account
of the manner in which Mr. John M. Graham, W. and
L,., 1889-90, now president of the National City Bank
of Rome, Georgia, instituted a nine-year program of
educating the farmer in his section.

The plan outlined by Mr. Graham won first place
in the nation-wide banker-farmer activity contest of the
American Bankers’ Association. It was originated ten
years ago by Mr. Graham and put in operation in his
bank. Mr. Graham is now President of the Georgia
Bankers’ Association.

It is a simple plan, emphasizing direct credits from
a bank to a farmer for producing his crops on a live-
at-home basis. So successful has the plan worked in
Georgia since its inauguration that more than 200 far-

ae, Re ae Ae Ts “Ue meee sa
mer-customers of the National City Bank have not only
“lived-at-home,” but have so successfully financed their
crops that they now have savings accounts in the bank
averaging $1000 each.

Mr. Graham’s father was an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee, and his son, John M. Graham, Jr., is
now a freshman here. Mr. Graham attended the
luncheon in Rome, Ga., given for President Gaines,
on February 5th.

ry
eo.

JUDGE GRONER, ’92, CONFIRMED

The nomination of D. Lawrence Groner to the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, was ap-
proved by the Senate on February 9th.

D. Lawrence Groner was born at Norfolk, Va.,
Sept. 6, 1873. He was a student at Washington and Lee
University from 1888 to 1892, and began the practice
of law at Norfolk, Va., in 1894. He was Requblican
candidate for attorney general of Virginia, 1901; U.
S. Attorney 1910-1913; delegate to Republican Nat-
ional Convention five times; U. S. district judge of the
Eastern District of Virginia, by appointment of Presi-
dent Harding since June 7, 1921. He married Anne
Vaughan, of Norfolk, April 11, 1898. They have
three children—John Vaughan, Duncan Lawrence, and
Duncan Goldthwaite.

We quote, in part, an editorial from the News-Lea-
der:

“In calling Judge Groner to the appelate field Mr.
Hoover gives silent, yet eloquent, approbation to his
judicial course in Virginia. It is a compliment to which
no man could be insensible.

“Judge Groner came to the bench of the Eastern
District of Virginia by appointment in 1921 by Presi-
dent Harding. ‘To this work the judge brought a keen
intelligence, supplemented by excellent training and
wide experience in the matters he should handle. It is
needless to say here that he made good, and it is need-
less to say, further, that he deserves richly this appoint-
ment at the hands of President Hoover.”

fy

TO NAME WASHINGTON COMMITTEE

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees at its
mid-winter meeting in Lexington, authorized the
rector to appoint a committee to make plans for the
University to participate in the great George Washing-
ton bi-centennial in 1932.

Little business was transacted by the board other
than routine business. James DeHart, elected football
coach by the athletic council for the next two years, was
approved by the board and his appointment now be-
comes effective.

The board also granted a right of way to the Vir-
ginia Gas Transmission corporation for gas lines across
the college grounds.

[8]

Mi oat Ge #2 Pee

 
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
   
 
 
  
   

Members of the board present were: Judge Che le
J. McDermott and Dr. George Bolling Lee, New York
Dr. William S. White, Raleigh, N. C.; Harringte
Waddell, Lexington; James R. Caskie, Lynchbur,
Judge Louis S. Epes, Blackstone, and Judge Gconmeyy
Peery, Richmond. ;
The move on the part of the Board of Trustee
Washington and Lee University for the proper partit
ipation of that institution of learning in the 1932
servance of the 200th anniversary of the birth ¢
George Washington is one that should be cz ie
through to completion. |
One can think of no college or university in the la
which could with greater propriety have important p;
in this observance. It was George Washington whol
giving $50,000 to a struggling little academy made it
college and contributed to its perpetuation through
century and a quarter thereafter. He stamped it y
his name and bestowed its prestige upon it. The men
ory of the father of his country is indissolubly co
nected with the institution, and that institution is di
ing the proper thing and the right thing and the g
ful thing when it joins in doing him honor.
It is to be hoped that Washington and Lee’s part i
the celebration will be in keeping with the important
of the event and the name the institution bears.

we
ate

ALUMNUS GOLFER WINS LAURELS

Playing in Class B of Florida Senior West Ce
championship meet, comprised of men of over sixt
five years of age, William M. McElwee, ’79, of Li
ington, won the low net prize over the Dunedin cout
February 10. Mr. McElwee, who is spending seve
months at the Hotel Fenway at Dunedin, ae ir
gross score of 95, which with a handicap of 18,
him a net 77. For a number of years he was the c ch
champion at Lexington.

Mr. McElwee writes that he was sereeabifil
prised at the honors showered upon him at dinner in
hotel the evening following the match. His table was de
orated with ribbons and flowers and held a miniatu
set of golf clubs, several golf balls and tees. He w
presented with a large cake covered with green ict
which depicted a green and fairway, with bunkers mé
of chocolate and a red flag in the hole. A figure on-
icing depicted him driving a white ball. There wi
much applause, he said, when he received the cake @
he was called upon for a speech. He does not §
whether he spoke or not, but says that he cut the ¢
and had the slices passed about the dining room. _

dae
a, tt

W. H. Dunlap, ’06, is in charge of field worl
the Public Utilities Commission in the valuation of t
properties of the Capital Traction Co., street railw
system in Washington, D. C.

-— reo ak: UM N

I

ane. G. & . 6 teed oe

 

Robin Hood Fancy Dress Ball Theme

Hood and King Richard Cour de Lion, the
twenty-fifth annual fancy dress ball at Wash-
ington and Lee in Doremus gymnasium Friday night,
January 30, seemed if possible to surpass former balls
in elegance and splendor. More than 1,000 dancers in
costumes of all colors and descriptions crowded the
floor and danced to the excellent music furnished by
Hal Kemp and his twelve piece orchestra.

‘here was a material change in the character of the
decorations, and they were fresh and bright and ar-
tistic. Getting away from the yards of crepe paper
which in past years made the hall a bower of beauty,
the decorations were simpler and more lasting and cap-
able of being used on future occasions. The ceiling was
draped in a deep blue cloth which represented the heav-
ens at night and was arranged so as not to interfere
with the view of the floor from the balconies. From
this hung suspended a number of brilliant eighteen-
point stars which reflected the bright lights hung below
the canopy and covered with yellow shades. From the
center and close up under the canopy hung a large mir-
ror ball, and during the waltz which followed the open-

  

DD ie ae y the reconcilliation between Robin

 

 

 

 

 

® VIRGINIA
CARGEANT G

 

 

WILLIAM
WTALLYN

 

 

 

 

     

ing figure, colored spotlights played on this ball as it
turned and threw dancing spots of light on the dark-
ened floor.

Beneath the improvised sky appeared Sherwood
Forest of Medieval England where Robin Hood and
his Merry Men were wont to prey on the riches of the
mighty for the benefit of the poverty stricken. Around
the walls were banks of cedar and pine trees. Silver
tinted flowers at intervals stood in front of this back-
ground in large jardiniers and the balcony rail carried
the banners of the English nobility with silver smilax
arranged between them. At the east end of the room
was King Richard's palace, with iron gratings over the
middle portal and columned doors on the sides. Out
of these doors the figures marched for the opening.
Preceding the beginning of the figure at 10 o’clock,
grand march around the room was led by Frank
M. Smith, of Jellico, Tenn., with Miss Virginia Sar-
gent. Two small pages opened the grating for the
entrance of King Richard and his queen, impersonated
by William H. Tallyn, of Scranton, Pa., president of
the ball, and his sister, Miss Miriam Tallyn. They
were followed by members of the court and the remain-

the

 

 

MIRIAM A.
TALLYN

 

 

 

Li ws A -L WU. oes
ing participants in the figure were dressed as Robin
Hood’s men in shades of purple, blue, pink and other
colors. Maneuvering to an arrangement of the opera,
“Robin Hood,” the marchers passed through effective
formations which ended with the Washington and Lee
monogram.

There were only fifty-one couples in the opening
figure, and at its close, hundreds of other couples rep-
resenting everything from convicts to princes crowded
on the floor. Many unique and elaborate costumes
were worn by the girls, brought from home for the
occasion. Costumes for the figures were made to order
by Van Horn, of Philadelphia.

An interested spectator was Miss Anne R. White, a
guest of honor, who originated the ball twenty-five years
ago and directed the first fifteen balls when she turned
over the arduous labors entailed to Professor Carl E.
L,. Gill. The decorations this year were under the di-
rection of Mrs. N. Beverley Tucker, who was assisted
by Mrs. Archibald C. Lee and Mrs. Harry K. Young.

Many visitors from a distance were present and the
galleries were crowded with spectators. Although girls
from Sweet Briar College, which usually contributes a
large number of dancers, were quarantined for diph-
theria and unable to come, there was no lack of danc-
ing talent. A buffet supper was served during the
dance which closed in the small hours of the morning.

Other festivities provided for the mid-winter dance
period were the junior prom Thursday night, a dansant
Saturday morning and a number of fraternity house
dances and parties. Music from Kemp’s band at the
fancy ball from 11 o’clock to midnight Friday was
broadcast over Station WDBJ, Roanoke, Va.

nn
—

W. AND L. FIELD HOUSE BURNS

The old gymnasium now used as a field house at
Wilson field, Washington and Lee, was totally destroy-
ed by fire Thursday morning, February 19, at 1:30
o'clock. With the building was burned some athletic
equipment, although the largest part of the small
amount of athletic equipment in the building was got-
ten out. What caused the fire is unknown.

The blaze from the frame structure lit the heavens
for miles around and by the time the firemen were able
to reach the building, the whole thing was in flames.
There are no plugs near the field, but had there been any
chance of saving the building, it is probable that water
could have been pumped from Woods Creek.

The structure was built in 1912 and used temporar-
ily as the college gymnasium following the burning of
the old gym and before completion of Doremus gym-
nasium, which went into use in 1915. For some years
thereafter little use was made of it, but recently it had
been repaired and equipped with a new hardwood floor
and was used for dressing rooms for football, for box-
ing practice, and storing old equipment. Most of this

[ 10 ]

   
   
  
      
    
    
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

M “A GA 2: 12

equipment, including the football stuff, was moved
Doremus gymnasium after the football season and a
that time the insurance on the equipment was alg
moved to the Doremus building. There was, there.
fore, no insurance on the equipment, but there was
$3,000 on the building. Equipment lost included
large loud speakers to be used on the field, boxin,
equipment and some old football uniforms left to 5
used for spring practice. ‘The bus in which the ath
letic teams travel is kept in the field house, but
night the basketball team was in Charlottesville and th
bus was saved. |

 

Ly
VV

DR. SAMUEL S. GUERRANT?> ’83-86

Dr. Samuel S. Guerrant has been for many year.
distinguished for the service he has rendered Virgin
agriculture through his wise and energetic leadershit

Dr. Guerrant was born and reared on a farm ne
Rocky Mount, Va. He was educated at private schoo
and later at Washington and Lee University. He to
his medical course at the University of Virginia, spe
one year at New York as a hospital interne, then wer
abroad and studied for a time at the University of Ex
inburgh. Upon his return he practiced medicine fe
several years in Roanoke. :

But he was always interested in agriculture. Whi
practicing medicine he gave a part of his time to deve
oping an orchard on his own farm at Algoma. Abe
30 years ago he began planting apple trees extensivel
Dr. Guerrant applied to his orchard operations tt
best scientific information obtainable, and from the b
ginning gave his orchard good care. As a result f
orchard has grown to the point where in a good ye:
it is not unusual for him to ship to market 20,000 bar
rels of high class apples. ’

Dr. Guerrant was practically a pioneer in or
ing in his community. Always showing a fine spif
toward public enterprises and the public welfare, h
built a school on his farm for the benefit of his
ren and the people who were employed on his farm. —
addition, he has built and very largely supports a sma
church or chapel in order that his people may have 0f
portunity for religious development. He has lon
taken an active interest in the question of road ft
ing as a means of giving his community access to
ets. He has not actually practiced medicine for mam
years but continues to do charity practice in his neigh
borhood for the benefit of those who might otherwis
not have the benefit of medical attention.

ry
VV

The Alumni Magazine is glad to report to the
friends of Miss Anne R. White that she is well on
way to recovery after a serious illness.

ry
Vv

A. R. “Red” Hawkins, ’25, is Chief Coast Accoun
ant for Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., Inc., Kyrock, &

a, oo

EE7~E

Sue sae Mm Neg

RUA ‘GA a a peewee

W. and L. Proud of Glasgow Memory

 

 

The name Glasgow is intimately associated with Washington and Lee University. On the first an-
niversary of the death of William A. Glasgow, Philadelphia attorney, this sketch is prepared.

Attorney Glasgow is survived by a number of Washington and Lee men of the same family. They
are: Judge Joseph A. Glasgow, Staunton, and Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, Nashville, brothers ;
Dr. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, Knoxville; Thomas P. Glasgow, Charlotte; Charles $. Glasgow, Lex-
ington, and William A. Glasgow, Washington and Lee senior, nephews.

Mr. Glasgow was for a time an attorney in Roanoke, later moving to Philadelphia, where he at-
taind fame in his profession. He died March 14, 1930. 3

 

 

 

ILLIAM A. GLASGOW, Jr., was born in
Fincastle, Botetourt County, Virginia, April
29, 1865, the son of William Anderson and
Grace Kllen (Shanks) Glasgow. His Scotch-Irish an-
cestors had emigrated to the Valley of Virginia early
in the eighteenth century, and as coincidence would
have it, landed in Philadelphia from Ireland and from
thence had gone to the Valley where their descendants
became leaders of professional and social thought in
Virginia for generations. As a boy he worked on the
farm and followed the hounds after the deer and fox,
and it was the vigorous life of the mountaineer that
served to give him the courage and fortitude which was
to assist him afterwards at the bar.

After receiving a thorough preparatory training in
private schools, he attended the Washington and Lee
University where he graduated in law in 1886. The
same year he was admitted to the bar, and practiced in
Roanoke, Virginia, until 1904 when he removed to
Philadelphia. During his eighteen years in Roanoke,
he laid the foundation for his great fame as a railroad
lawyer; and it was while he was special council for the
Norfolk and Western Railway and for a large coal
company in West Virginia that he obtained the wide
knowledge of carrier and coal affairs which was to serve
him so well when he entered upon his famous investi-
gation of the big railroads of the country in 1906, an
inquiry which brought him into national prominence
and placed his name upon the scrolls of American legal
achievement.

He was destined to become a leading corporate in-
vestigator, a legal advisor of high ability for the Ameri-
can Food Administration during the World War, a con-
sul in Belgian relief and special counsel for the United
Mine Workers of America, not to mention many less
important posts. It was while giving valuable aid in
raising funds in this country for Belgian relief and
while serving as counsel for the Food Administration
that he became a close friend of President Herbert
Hoover,—a friendship which he maintained and valued

until the day of his death.

 

On July 8, 1897, at London, Canada, Glasgow mar-
ried Miss Jean Cresswell Macara, daughter of the late
John Macara, barrister-at-law, of Goderich, Ontario.
She was a great niece of Sir Robert Macara, a gallant
officer who served under Wellington at Waterloo. Un-
til the day of his death no married life was more exem-
plary of the love and trust between a great man and a
charming woman, and Glasgow often told his intimate
friends that most of his success was due to the fine
sympathy, the clear understanding and the unfailing
courage of his wife. Their partnership was reminis-
cent of the noble alliance between Robert Browning, the
poet, and his wife, Elizabeth Barrett.

As counsel for the American Food Administration
during the World War at Herbert Hoover’s solicitation,
he served gratis. As legal advisor he was consulted on
many intricate food regulations, and his sound reason-
ing, his courage and vision, were largely responsible
for the great success of the Administration in the most
trying period of the conflict. Prior to this service, he
had personally answered an appeal from abroad and
aided in raising a large fund to maintain the much
needed relief of the Belgians. For his fine work he re-
ceived the personal thanks of Hoover and was decorated
Commander of the Order of the Crown by the Belgian
Government.

On April 12, 1921,he was appointed counsel for the
United Mine Workers of America to succeed Hughes
who was named Secretary of State by President Hard-
ing. In this post he ably and successfully defended
mine workers in the District Court at Philadelphia and
throughout America against charges of conspiracy to
violate the Federal laws, and his work drew from mine
workers’ officials a lasting affection and admiration.
Among these was John L. Lewis, President of the
United Mine Workers.

Glasgow possessed an astonishingly keen analytical
mind which penetrated to the roots of all problems
which came before him for solution. As a lawyer, he
read the innermost thoughts of his antagonists and his
faculty for drawing the truth from witnesses amounted

[11]

Tt YH 3S AXDL 40 MN.

  

MoA'G A Z 4a

 

to genius. As a man he was an unexcelled student of
human nature whose knowledge of the world’s temp-
tations and frailties was capable of being mixed with
a fine understanding and a ready forgiveness.

He was a man of wise friendships and broad cul-
ture. His circle of friends and acquaintances included
the names of distinguished men in many nations,and the
shelves of his fine library are mute testimony to his ex-
cellent taste for literature. Biographies and histories
were his favorites; and ancedotes about great men and

 

Wiiitiam A. GLAsSGow

women of the past and present were among his accom-
plishments in the drawing room or at his hospitable
table.

Above all, he possessed an innate sense of justice,
—a sense of justice that prompted him to spread ‘is
aegis of kindliness and interest over all with whom hs
came in contact who were victims of misfortune or upon
whom injustice had laid a heavy hand. He exempli-
fied the virtue of Abou-Ben-Adhem in that his interest,
—and often his love,—extended to the humblest person
who might cross his path.

His abiding religious belief was maintained in a sac-
redness that is characteristic of great men. From his
mother he learned the Christian precepts which he kept
always before him; and one of the finest relationships
in his life was that between him and the woman who
gave him birth. She represented for him the ideal of

[ 12]

    
   
   
  
      
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
     
  
  
   
   
 
  

matchless womanhood,—and it was his good foy t
that he found his mother’s likeness in his wife,
As he would have willed, he died in harness<

the midst of preparing the city’s rate case,—on
morning of March 14, 1930. And as he wished, he y
taken into the little Valley of Virginia where two
the South’s noblest dead are buried,—Robert E, ]
and “Stonewall” Jackson,—and there laid at rest
side his father and mother. s
Young in ability and intellect, it might be said tha
was summoned far too soon; but his life
crowned in its brief span with worthy achieveme
that there is some consolation in musing upon his eh
acter and in remembering the words of the great p
who sang of Wellington that he was one— i
“Who never sold the truth to serve the hour, —
Nor paltered with Eternal God for power.” —

joni
s Vv

STUDENTS LIVED SIMPLY IN ’76

Students of Washington complain long and lot
that the quantity, quality, and service of their reg
or irregular three meals a day. ‘The grub of the
ternity houses, various boarding houses, restaurat
and the dining hall all are the subject of about an eg
amount of griping. .

With what complainings do the present stude
of Washington and Lee receive their daily three m
Fraternity house “grub” comes in for its share of
criticism and those who eat at the various board
houses and restaurants in the town contribute so
share from time to time. q

One cannot help wondering what the students
in the days of Liberty Hall Academy thought about 1
food situation. Here is a typical menu that the bi
back in 1776 faced at meal time. Breakfast: cof
tea or chocolate with butter and bread. Dinner:
course of bread and meat with a suitable sauce
vegetables. Supper: bread, butter and milk.

Even at that, one wonders how the old institutt
was a financial success for the total expenses for
school year, exclusive of books and clothing amoun
to ten pounds and ten shillings. In American mom
that was about $35, or, perhaps $100 at the presé
rate of exchange. Tuition was four pounds per ye
What marvels of financial manipulation the first he
of the institution must have performed. q

The modern Washington and Lee with its mo
elaborate method of living offers a striking contrast”
this report of other days. Comparisons are interestif

The average cost of meals per student varies D
tween $27.50 and $35, almost the amount charged f
the whole school year in the first days of the institutid

Perhaps the students then did complain. That)
a student’s prerogative. Certainly the complaining Wi
less expensive. ’

 

[.

mee fee MM N.S

M.A (iG 4A 22 Bee Se

 

University Now Owns Liberty Hall

“| H ROUGH
+i |@ilthe gift of
esta|two daugh-

ters of a former pro-
fessor, Washington
and Lee University
here has come into
possession of the ruins
of Liberty Hall, from
which the school has
grown in the last 129

 

 

years.

Situated half a
mile west of the pres-
ent University cam-
pus, Liberty Hall,
built in 1793, was de-
stroyed in a fire in
1802. Remaining are
two gray stone walls.
Grass replaces eigh-
teenth-century rough-
hewn pine floors, and
crumbling fireplaces
flank a _ great tree
which has grown between the limestone walls. The
original building was either three or four stories high
with either one or two rooms to the floor.

Announcement of the gift was made recently by
Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington
and Lee. The donors are Mrs. Joel W. Goldsby,
Mobile, and Mrs. W. G. Brown, Pittsburgh, who in-
herited the land on which the ruins stand from their
father, James J. White, former professor of ancient
languages at the University. A son of Professor
White, Dr. Reid White, Sr., is now Washington and
Lee physician.

Liberty Hall’s limestone walls are being strength-
ened and preserved by the University. A group of
workmen, directed by Prof. Hale Houston of the Uni-
versity Engineering Department, is capping each wall so
further deterioration will be checked. Cracks are being
plugged, and a landscape gardening project is planned.

Students of Liberty Hall moved into their new
building the same year Thomas Jefferson was getting
used to his new home of the presidency. That year,
1793, the little Scotch-Irish school, founded as Augusta
Academy in 1749, twenty-six miles north of here,
moved to Lexington under the leadership of the Rev.
William Graham, president, who was instrumental in
erection of the new quarters. - Mr. Graham died in
1799, and his school building was reduced to ruins three

 

RuIns oF Liperty HALL ACADEMY

years later when the handful of students were home
for Christmas vacation.

Since then, many classes have sifted through the
University. From the solitary building of Liberty Hall,
the institution has crept more than a quarter of a mile
along the ridge that borders Woods Creek valley. Four-
teen buildings now comprise the physical plant of the
institution.

Meanwhile, Liberty Hall became Washington
Academy, in deference to the great president who en-
dowed it and became its first patron; and in 1813
Washington College replaced the Academy. Into a
battered South fifty years and more later came Robert
I. Lee to assume the presidency of the college, and to
begin a work of rebuilding.

Here he founded the first collegiate school of com-
merce, and the world’s first instruction in journalism.
Courses in engineering were instituted when Lee fore-
saw the necessity of applying science to industry. The
Lexington Law School, founded in 1849 by Judge
John W. Brockenbrough, had become part of the in-
stitution. Under Lee’s administration, the student body
increased from 91—all but one from Virginia—to 410,
representing twenty states and one foreign country.

Soon after General Lee died in 1870, Washington
College became Washington and Lee University. To-
day it has a limited enrollment of 900 young men.

[ 13 ]

- we Ss A ok Ua a

Generals Have Successful Winter Sports

 

ATED as probable Southern Conference cham-
pions in three of five winter sports, Washing-
— |ton and Lee coaches are now grooming their
athletes for the title events this month.

Culminating the most successful season in recent
years, the wrestlers, swimmers and trackmen are mark-
ing time until they depart from Lexington for the
chosen points in the south where the crowns in the
respective sports will be at stake. Boasting records
of all wins and no draws, the Generals entries in these
three sports will command the attention of the South’s
best.

Despite the basketeer’s reverse by Georgia in the
opening round of the tournament the
last week in February to eliminate
the Big Blue from the championships,
Coach Ray Ellerman and his proteges
have by no means retained an unfav-
orable record this season. Inaugurat-
ing the cage season with a new coach
employing a new system, and with
only two regulars in uniform, the
Washington and Lee basketeers fail-
ed to click until their third game when
they beat Georgetown at Washing-
ton, 29-28. Ellerman, former assistant
basketball coach at Wisconsin, joined
the local coaching ranks at the begin-
ning of the fall term, but could not
impart the fundamentals of the Mean-
well system, characteristic of mid-
western play, until after the football
season when the full strength of his
squad reported for daily work-
outs.

After eking out a win in an over-time period with
St. Johns of Anapolis to open the campaign, and after
reversing the Hoyas by one point, Ellerman and his pro-
teges entrained northward for a four game program.
Temple, New York University, Loyola, and Maryland
chalked losses to the Generals score book. ‘The fol-
lowing week-end at Lexington, Ky., and Charleston, W.
Va., the cagemen bowed to Kentucky, but defeated the
Mountaineers 28-24. Returning to their home floor,
they played host to North Carolina University and Wil-
liam and Mary to gain two wins. It was the Tar Heel’s
lone defeat in their invasion of the Big Four of the
Old Dominion.

When they out-scored Virginia and V.P.1. twice in
the annual home and home agreement with these two
state rivals, the Generals assured themselves of repre-
sentation in the Conference tournament at Atlanta

 

 

 

 

[ dey

 

TEX TILSON
'75 L8B.CLASS —

  
      
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
 
   
  

MitiA GA 2 as

which selects the leading quints of the South. Drawino
Georgia, ceded as the winners, Ellerman took his men:
south for the first game in the bracket. After leading
the Bulldogs 20-10 at half time, the Big Blue returne,
to the court only to see their lead mowed down to ;
tie score when the final whistle blew. Continuing thej
scoring spree the boys from Georgia won 32-31 to elim
inate Washington and Lee from entering the secon
round. i a

Lack of capable scoring guards at the outset of th
difficult 18 game card, forced Ellerman to change Leig
Williams to guard from his former center post. Ho
brook, sophomore teamed up with Williams in the ms
jority of games. Running with
forward veteran of two season
“Jumping Jack” Jarrett, anothe
sophomore forced his way into th
line-up. Barasch gained a position |
the first five, switching Williams’ piy
ot position when this center fell -be
to guard after the tap-off.

Still, later in the season, Marti
guard, found the basket consistent
in practice and Ellerman returned 1
his original first basket combinati¢
with Williams at center. |

Finishing the winter with d
pendable entries in every class excef
the heavy weight division, Bus
lone and his “pugs” travelled to Char
lottesville for the Southern Confer
ence Championships, hoping to gat
several first places as Robertson, 11
pounds, and Pound, 165 pounds, wert
undefeated in Conference bouts. Rob:
ertson entered the quarter finals, only to be outpointe
by the Florida captain. Pound, however, displayed tl
surprise of the fights when Meyers, Virginia, K. O.'
him. Pound had his man down for the count of nif
twice in the three rounds when the Cavalier boxe
punch drunk, put all he had in a final “egg crate” walle
which caught the General on the chin. It was not unti
30 minutes later in the shower room that the st
groggy Myers knew he won the fight.

Gaining a decision over Captain Buck, V.M.1., ti
Washington and Lee captain, Johnny Sloshberg, wat
pitted against Goldstein in the 125 pound division. The
Virginia fighter, who has dropped only one decisiO
in 40 bouts and that to the Golden Glove Kid of Nes
York, was awarded a close decision over Sloshberg

It is Washingto nand Lee’s wrestlers who have
gained national prestige for the University. The

, Hee Se Ae ow COUN

I

iA. GAA: = 2 oe oe

 

EEE

“Mauling Mathismen” have not been defeated in two
years’ of varsity competition or three years’ of fresh-
man fighting. In this span the grapplers have won
from both southern and northern contenders.

All of the Army coaches’ strategy and all of the
Army men couldn’t prevent Washington and Lee
matmen from blanking the Cadets 34-0 for the worst
whipping the West Pointers had in that sport up to
that time. Returning to school New Year’s Day,
Coach Mathis sent his proteges through a period of
training that put them in top-notch condition for the
crucial meet. Paying tribute to two outstanding Gen-
eral wrestlers, the Army coach said:

“If there are two finer wrestlers in the country
than Mathis or Tilson, I have not seen them.”

In retaining a perfect record, the grapplers have
romped on Richmond Y. M. C. A., Army, North Car-
olina State, Davidson, V. P. I. and Duke.

Virginia Military Institute will be defending wrest-

 

 

 

4

 

 

 

WILLIAMS -
, - CENTER-

gaeascH

- FORWACO-

[ 15 ]

 

ling champions in the title bouts the first week in
March, but Mathis is not hesitant to say that his men
are going to prove a strong barrier to the Cadets if
they expect to retain the laurels. Abramson, fighting
in the 125 pound class all winter, will probably come
down to the feather weight division where he is being
counted upon to score for the Generals. Tilson, 175
pounds, will be meeting all challengers to his crown
which he attained last year. Mitchell, heavyweight,
defeated last season only by ‘““Wee Willie’ Davis, 220
pound V. P. I. champion who has been graduated to
professional ranks in New York, is expected to garner
markers in the unlimited weight. Thomas, 145 pounds,
and Mathis, 155 pounds, are also scaring opponents
with their unmarred records to date.

Dedicating the Duke pool by setting new records
in every event and winning all first places, the natators
opened their three meet schdule which points to the
Conference championships at Atlanta this month. The

Hor. BRood
- Guaro-

 

Tr ss A VL 44) Pio os

 

= FIG HTIN g
GEN ERALS

 

NACE Cou mINS
75 Pounds -

 

 

Sut LOSHBERG
“IRS POUNDS -

ROBERTSON
Ws
POUNDS

EB we

 

Mc KINNEY

—~IH4S POUNDS -

 

Twomblymen easily outpointed William and Mary and
Virginia swimmers. Last season the mermen forfeit-
ed Conference championship possibilities when they
chose to take a northern trip instead of entering the
tournament.

Stapleton in the dashes and Weinstein in the breast-
stroke have been outstanding in helping covet the all-
win record. |

In the first indoor track meet ever held in Dore-
mus gymnasium, the trackmen won from both varsity
and freshmen runners from Virginia in their annual
dual meet. Supporting three Southern Conference
indoor champions, the thin clads displayed power in
the high and low hurdles and the quarter mile. Spear,
high hurdles; Finklestein, low hurdles; and Sheppard,
quarter miler all gained titles in the indoor games last
year and in the only appearance so far this season dem-
onstrated that they will command bes respect of en-
tries this year-

With the high jump and pole vault lacking suffi-
cient capable performers in the outdoor meets last
spring, Coach Forest Fletcher concentrated on this de-

[ 16 ]

 

muUA GA Zz fa

SRvLOwi Tz
~ 1/35 POUNDS ~-

 

 

  
  
  
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

 

 

SODND - 160 PoUNOS

partment of his freshman contingent with the res
that in the next campaign this department will be
resented by at least three men in each event who
practice have demonstrated that they are of point w
ning caliber.

Failing to uncover any possible relay championsh
combination, the Big Blue did not enter any
in the indoor meets this winter in New York or ot
northern cities.

Joy was brought to all the mentors hearts
the possible exceptions of those in charge of boxing at
swimming, by the outstanding accomplishments of tl
yearling contingents. |The wrestlers finished the se
son with an all-win record while the frosh runners
their lone appearance on the boards eked out a 0
point win over the Baby Cavaliers by scoring a fif
and third in the half mile run, the final event on t
program. ‘That the yearling cagemen are going
seriously threaten the right of the present varsity met
bers to their positions next winter is indicated by the
play this season. Yet to be defeated, the yearling
has never been outclassed in either defensive or offe

MHA GiA 2 a anh aa

 

T oo

 

sive play. In scrim-
mages with the
varsity their de-
fensive play has at
times baffled the
varsity, and it was
only by means of
middle of the court
shots by Williams
that proved the
margin of victory
for the Big Blue.
In contrast to the
records of these
freshman combines,
the first year box-
ers and swimmers
finished the season
by not winning an encounter.

 

WH MATHIS [155 i6s.

Ly
Vw

K. A.’s LEAD INTRAMURALS

The Kappa Alpha social fraternity, with 84 points
to its credit, is far in the lead in the intramural sports
race as the winter activities draw to a close. The
Touring Tigers, an organization of non-fraternity men,
is in second position with 64 1-2 points.

Sponsoring a program of sports this year, the
athletic department has received entries from every
social fraternity on the campus and two non-fraternity
groups. Points are awarded to the organizations scor-
ing in football, handball, swimming, boxing, wrestling,
basketball, baseball and track. A cup will be awarded
to the group scoring the most points in all activities.

Touring Tigers broke into the lead at the start
of the race last fall when they defeated Kappa Alpha
in the touch football finals. The fraternities and non-
fraternity groups agree this type of competition is more
beneficial to students than unorganized athletics of pre-
vious years.

After a month lapse, the Greeks primed for hand-
ball competition. Alpha Tau Omega garnered 36 points
in this event while Phi Kappa Psi was runner-up, col-
lecting 25 points.

In swimming Kappa Alpha led with 17 points.
Touring Tigers with 9 1-2 points followed the league
leaders.

Boxing and basketball matches will be held this
month. Boxing will be run under Southern Confer-
ence rulings except bouts will be shortened a half
minute.

According to officials of the league and the intra-
mural board, the spirit of competition among entries
has proved students want this type of athletics. In re-
cent years the only competition among Greeks has
been in basketball, but if interest continues, as it has
this winter, the program will be a yearly feature.

 

Besides giving every student an opportunity to par-
ticipate in a sport, the activities have uncovered talent
for coaches to develop. This has been particularly
true in the indoor sports.

The Standings
FRATERNITY PoINTs
Kappa Alpha 84
Touring Tigers 64 1-2
Alpha Tau Omega 58 1-2
Phi Kappa Sigma 45 1-2
Beta Theta Pi 45 1-2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 40 1-2
Phi Kappa Psi 39 1-2
Alpha Chi Rho 36 1-2
Sigma Nu 34 1-2
Delta Upsilon 34 1-2
Sigma Phi Epsilon 33 1-2
Pi Kappa Phi 25
Zeta Beta Tau 20 1-2
Kappa Sigma 20 1-2
Pi Kappa Alpha 18
Lambda Chi Alpha 17
Phi Delta Theta 12
Sigma Chi 12
Phi Gamma Delta 11 1-2
Cats Whiskers 10
Phi Epsilon Pi 9 1-2
Delta Tau Delta 4 1-2

ae

PASS NEW ELECTION RULES

In an effort to curb exorbitant election expenses,
the student body executive committee has ruled that
all candidates this year must file detailed and itemized
statements with it. One statement to be filed by six
o'clock on the night before election and the other by
nine o'clock election morning.

Another regulation, to limit each candidate’s ex-
penses to a maximum of $25, has also been passed.
The Athletic Council elections have been set for April
2 with the General Elections to follow several weeks
after Easter.

In limiting the election expenses, it was not in-
tended fraternity brothers and friends would have
to include their contributions in the $25 sum. The
$25 applies to the candidate himself.

Intoxicating liquors which have played an im-
portant part in “vote-getting’’ of past years, have also
been ruled out. Any violation of the ruling will dis-
qualify the candidate.

sy
Vv

Edward A. (“Jiggs”) Donahue is now with Leonard,
Crossett & Riley, Produce Brokers, Boston Market
Terminal Building, Fargo St., Boston, Mass.

R. W. (“Bill”) Hawkins, ’30, is making good with
the DuPont Co., at Wilmington, Del.

[ 17 ]

ae 2 A Gh AU Sa oe

W.& L. Journalism Given High Rating

 

OURNALISM at Washington and Lee. re-
J ceived national recognition by membership in

the American Association of Schools and De-
partments of. Journalism with class A rating, at the
meeting of the Association held in Boston the last three
days of 1930.

Membership is awarded after a school has lived up
for three years to the requirements, including profes-
sors, curriculum, library, and laboratory facilities ap-
proved by the Association.

A new curriculum leading to a certificate in Jour-
nalism was adopted by the faculty at the last meeting
of 1930. Three majors in Journalism will be given
under the new arrangement, daily Journalism, critical
Journalism, and business Journalism.

The new curriculum has three divisions: background
courses, professional courses, and correlation courses.
Each student will be required to take all the background
work, which includes English, languages, science, eco-
nomics, psychology, sociology, and political science, one
of the three journalism majors, and then restricted elec-
tives to correlate the other two divisions of the curricu-
lum.

  

Within the last year the Department of Journalism
has installed an adequately equipped printing labora-
tory in which The Ring-tum Phi, The Southern Col-
legian, THE ALUMNI MaGazinE, and all University job

[ 18 ]

I

  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

M.A 'G (A 2 oe

This print shop accepts no printir
outside the University. In the shop are machines fo
all phases of regular printing. A recent addition t¢
the equipment is the machine which roughens paper am
produces the effect found on the cover of this issue of
THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

A superintendent, a floorman, a pressman,
linotype operators, and a helper are employed i n ne
Journalism laboratory. .

A University bulletin in the form of a booklet
entitled ‘Historic Washington and Lee,” recently has
been prepared to send to prospective students.

The booklet, designed and printed in the Journal-
ism laboratory, contains 14 campus views printed if
brown and white half-tones, similar photographs of
Washington and of Lee, and a brief historical sté
ment concerning the University.

The bulletin pictures individual views of New=
comb Hall; Lee Chapel; Doremus Gymnasium, inter-
ior and exterior views; the new Memorial Bridge to
the athletic field; action pictures of track; the Chem=
istry building; Reid Hall, building of Engineering and
Physics ; two newly erected fraternity houses; the Li-
brary; Tucker Hall, home of the Law School; interiot
of the Commerce library in Newcomb Hall; interic 7
of the Journalism laboratory; and Valentine’s recum
bent statue of Lee.

printing are done.

a, ew ee am SN

nA GAO? tie

 

eV7~r

Rudy’s Rendition Results in Ritten Row

 
 

megs | DY Vallee stirred up a hornets nest on Feb.
12 when he played the Swing over the radio
me jand called it the “Tulane Swing.”

 

Robert M. Curtis, ’16, who is on the Times-W orld
staff in Roanoke, immediately wrote the famed orches-
tra leader a letter of protest and also informed Thorn-
ton W. Allen, ’08, owner of the song’s copyright. From
both he received replies which are printed below.

In addition to Mr. Curtis’s protest the Ring-tum
Phi took Vallee to task in a long editorial.

The Swing has long been used by other universities
and by high schools as “their” song. Alumni in var-
ious sections of the country have protested these “‘steals”
but have been unable to do anything towards having
Washington and Lee recognized as possessor of the
original.

Mr. Curtis’s correspondence follows:

February 13, 1931.
Mr. Rudy Vallee,

Care National Broadcasting Company,
New York, N. Y.

Dear Sir:

I was very pleasantly surprised last night while
listening to your Fleischman Yeast broadcast from New
Orleans, to hear the strains of my college song. Then
in a few minutes amazed to hear you announce that you
were playing the song of Tulane University.

Perhaps a little school like Washington and Lee
is not known to the Connecticut Yankees but the Wash-
ington and Lee Swing is very well known throughout
the South. Just when Tulane swiped this song I do
not know, but for your information let me give you
some facts about the Washington and Lee Swing which
you played last night as the Tulane Swing. It was
written by a Washington and Lee student named Allen
in 1911 as the Washington and Lee Swing and has
been continuously used by Washington and Lee since
then. Even the words you sung last night are from
the original Washington and Lee Swing with the ex-
ception of “Tulane” and “Tiger.”

I am sending a copy of this letter to Mr. H. K.
Young Alumni Secretary of Washington and Lee, with
the request that he send you a copy of the Washington
and Lee Swing which has been printed as sheet music
for the past twenty years. It is entirely possible that
Tulane gives credit to the Washington and Lee Swing
for its own song but I rather doubt this as I know
that New Orleans alumni of Washington and Lee have
protested against the use of the Washington and Lee
Swing by Tulane as their song. This is not a case of
Tulane reviving a “Stein Song” that had been buried

for thirty years, but so far as I know, an outright steal
of a song which my school has used continuously for
twenty years and I certainly feel that they should give
Washington and Lee credit if they want to steal the
words and music.

Please do not mistake my motive in writing you as
being a criticism of your part in the performance, but
merely to give you the facts in the case and I hope
that in one of your future broadcasts you might find
room to name and play the Washington and Lee Swing
after you receive the music from Mr. Young.

Yours very truly,

ROBERT M. CURTIS.

February 21, 1931
Mr. Robert M. Curtis,
Care Times-World Corp.
Times Building,
Roanoke, Virginia.

My dear Mr. Curtis:

I was very pleased to receive your letter regarding
my rendition of the Washington and Lee Swing as the
Tulane Swing, and I am quite in accord with your sen-
timents. It happens, however, that I am more con-
versant with the situation of Washington and Lee
Swing than you surmise. In the first place, I know its
composer Thornton W. Allen, very well. In fact,
he and I have been very good friends for the past two
years, and it was at my suggestion that he put out a
new edition of it in dance orchestration form, and new
regular sheet copies. I have featured it on the Fleisch-
mann Hour three or four times, and several times
from the Villa Vallee, and I am surprised that you have
not heard of our Victor record of it, which has been
one of Victor’s best sellers.

On my arrival in New Orleans on the evening of
the broadcast, I was told that Tulane University would
appreciate it very much if I sang the Tulane song,
which I discovered was the Washington and Lee Swing.

I am sure Mr. Thornton Allen regards the use
of Washington and Lee Swing by another school with
a very benevolent eye. It might interest you to know
that March. March on Down the Field, the Yale Col-
lege football song, is the school song of several high
schools and several colleges; likewise are there many
other compositions used by many universities as their
own football or Alma Mater song. It is impossible
to stop these things, and in a way Mr. Allen and Wash-
ington and Lee University should be quite flattered that
another university thinks their song good enough to
wish to use it as theirs, though on the other hand I can
understand how you would be provoked in this partic-

[ 19 ]

ere 2S ae . Ue ae
ular case where the lyrics are hardly changed at all.

I doubt if there is anything that could be done
about it, and I doubt if either Mr. Allen or the school
will do anything. I assure you the only reason that I
broadcast it was simply as a favor to the local broad-
casting station and the University of Tulane itself. I

might have given credit to Washington and Lee Swing, °

but that would have destroyed the pleasure that the
Tulane men got from it. I believe little harm has
been done, and I hope that you will be tolerant of the
entire matter as you seem to be in your letter.
Sincerely,
R. VALLEE.

New York
February 27, 1931
Dear Mr. Curtis:

Your letter of February thirteenth, addressed to
Rudy Vallee has found its way to me, and I have read
it with a great deal of interest.

I heard Vallee’s program on this occasion and felt
as you did when he called the Washington and Lee
Swing the Tulane Swing.

It may interest you to know that Rudy Vallee has
agreed to feature the Washington and Lee Swing this
past fall, calling it at the time “the greatest college song
ever written.” However, his interest suddenly dropped.

I presume that he called the song the Tulane
Swing on this occasion because he was in New Orleans.
He used my own orchestration. He knows very well
the real name of the song and who wrote it, for he made
an excellent recording of the Swing for Victor, which
was released last month.

It was mighty nice of you to write Rudy Vallee
about this, and I only wish that other W. and L. men
would take the same interest.

I have frequently stated that as the copyright own-
er of this song, I am willing to let any and all colleges
use it, but the number must be called the Washington
and Lee Swing.

Hoping to see you some time when you come to
New York, I am,

Sincerely,

T. W. ALLEN.
| February 25, 1931.
Mr. H. K. Young, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,

Dear Mr. Young:
Enclosed please find check in the amount of $4.00
to cover Alumni Magazine subscription for two years.
Let me congratulate you upon the excellent appear-
ance and content of the recent issues of this publication.
It serves as a very important connecting link between
the sons of Washington and Lee and their alma mater.
Sincerely yours,

E. W. MacCORKLE, Jr.

[ 20 ]

I

  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
    
 
   
   
 
 
       

M A G A 2 7

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS

Two campus improvements have been made ¢
the redecorating of the chapel completed during h
last month. Each spring sees several improvement:
made on the campus of Washington and Lee. :

The new parkway at the Memorial Gateway an
the Lee Chapel received considerable enhancement j
appearance by the planting of shrubbery and hedges
and by the landscaping of the terrace and grass plots,

The vaulted ceiling of the Lee Chapel has been re
painted. It was necessary to set up scaffolding in th
balconies in order to do the work, but brackets
been installed which will do away with any necessit)
of such temporary construction in the future. 4

The wide space in front of the Doremus Memoria
Gymnasium, which up until recently has been used ;
a parking place for cars, has been protected by post
and grass has been planted. This will make a great in
provement in the appearance of the gymnasium and it
environs. The area in the back of the building y
be made into a regular parking place for cars of os
attending University social functions and athletic event
in the gymnasium.

Prof. Hale Houston, of the Engineering Or rt
ment, is in charge of the improvements.

Ly
VV

MANY TREES BEAUTIFY CAMPUS

More than 200 trees representing 36 different vai
ieties lend to the beauty of Washington and Lee’s ¢ f
campus. |

Trees older than the institution itself shade tt
same spots where students reclined three-quarters 0
a century ago. Trees younger than the newest fresh
man struggle bravely with tiny sprouts and new buds

Maple is the most common species, nearly 50 0
the total belong to this species. Three kinds of mapk
grow here, silver, red, and black, the latter more com
monly known as the sugar maple. E

Elm, sycamore, locust, oak, spruce, ash, cedat
and hemlock trees are other common varieties.

A single specimen of the larch, or tamarack
is located directly back of the Robert E. Lee memorial
church, at the entrance to the campus. z

Fruit trees also are represented. Apple and mul
berry predominate, and there are specimens of the box
elder and one known as the “service berry.” 5

More rare are the wisteria, dogwood, bass woe 4
and red-water birch. A single walnut tree, and on
horse chestnut tree have thrived for years.

fy
4

Lloyd R. Churchill, A.B., ’12, Missionary of the
Episcopal Church, at the American Church Mission,
Nachang, Ki, China, is on vacation. His address until
April 1st, will be 28 Hillside Ave., Englewood, N. J.
At that time he will return to China.

%

  

eee See ey See ee

ro fF oe

e 4

. ae mo Um N

I

We AiG: At 2 igen

 

— -

Fraternity

Building Program Progresses

Two of the Fraternity Houses

aS a

ola ay > we

iy i rage
ee

:
*
ae

nt <

\

 

BETA AND Put DELTA THeta HousEts NEAR CAMPUS

 

ORE than a third of the twenty national fra-
ternities on the Washington and Lee campus,
s= |have recently moved into new houses. Dating
Sc k from 1924, the building program began when the
Beta Theta Pi fraternity built a brick colomai style
house on Jefferson Street. The Phi Kappa Sigmas
completed their house next to them on the same street
the following year.

Delta Tau Delta remodeled its house on Lee Aven-
ue in 1928 on the general lines of the prevalent colonial
type.

In 1929 the Alpha Tau Omegas occupied a new
home on South Main Street where the old house was
formerly located. It is constructed of brick in the
Georgian style.

The following spring, Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Theta built colonial houses opposite each other on Hen-
ry Street just beyond the Memorial Gateway of the
University.

Pi Kappa Alpha entered its new house on lower
Main Street in the Fall of 1930. Architecture was of
the same style used by the other fraternities.

Several other organizations are contemplating
building in the near future. The general thought,

 

 

 

which seems to motivate the fraternities to building,
besides the need for new dwellings, is the exceptionally
good: offers made by contractors, due to the business
depression and the consequent lowering of the cost
of materials.

Kappa Sigma has definitely decided to build a new
house on the site of the old building which was partly
destroyed by fire in February.

Lambda Chi Alpha and Sigma Chi will probably
build next year if present plans are carried out and
finances permit.

Houses in the future, if built on University prop-
erty, will be located in Davidson Park, east of Lex-
ington. A new road to Buena Vista has been surveyed
through the property making it a valuable and exceed-
ingly desirable site.

Wirt W. Donnally, LL.B., ’25, has resumed the prac-
tice of law with offices in the Kanawha Valley Bank
Building, Charleston, W. Va.

John B. Ecker, ’28, is in charge of field work for the
Capital Traction Co., in the valuation of its properties
now in progress.

[Zi]

Fans

S. M. A. Wins Scholastic Cage Tourney

HE eighth annual South-Atlantic Interscholas-
TE basketball tournament is over. Three days

of fast and furious play concluded with crown-
ing of Staunton Military Academy as champion on
March 7. Spartanburg High School of Spartanburg, S.
C., winner of the high school class, furnished the oppo-
sition in the grand championship game which went to
the Staunton team 35-27. It was Staunton’s third cham-
pionship in the eight years of tournament play.

Twenty-seven teams representing six states and
the District of Columbia responded to the referee’s
whistle which sent them into a fight for team and in-
dividual awards.

Thrills were injected into the first round of play
when both finalists from last year’s tournament were
eliminated. Massanutten Academy, last year’s grand
champion, trailed Benedictine of Richmond, the small-
est team entered, by the score of 25-19, while John
Marshall High School of Richmond went down 26-35
before Raleigh High School, of Raleigh, N. C.

Efficiency marked every step of play with the re-
sult that every one of the 51 games was run-off on
scheduled time. In contrast with other years not an
extra period game was required for a decision.

For the eighth consecutive year Billy Gooch, of
William and Mary, took over the duties as head ref-
eree. For his assistants he chose “Babe” Spotts, ’27,
now coaching at Fishburne Military Academy, and
“Dutch” Eberts, of Washington, D. C., and Catholic
University.

Injuries, usually a factor in previous tournaments,
were conspicuous by their absence. In the first round
game between Lynchburg and Charlotte high schools,
Referee Gooch sustained a slightly twisted knee but was
able to continue his duties throughout the three days.

Clean play and sportsmanship featured the work
of every team entered, thus adding to the attractiveness
of the tournament. According to Captain Dick Smith,
graduate manager of athletics at the university, the
tournament was the most successful ever staged here.

Team and individual prizes were awarded to the
winners by Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of the
University, immediately after the final game.

 

First All-Tournament Team

Forward Brinker Charleston, S. C.
Forward Chapman Staunton M. A.
Center Lehman Staunton M. A.
Guard Ferguson Spartanburg,—S. -C.
Guard McAninch Staunton M. A.

[ 22 ]

a LU ee eet

‘ hang in the restored Arlington.

M A G A Z° te

   
    
    
 
   
    
   
      
    
 
  
   

Second All-Tournament Team

Spartanburg, §. C.

Forward Nash

Forward Weis Benedictine Prep, x
Center Cox Raleigh, N. C.
Guard MacCachran Charlotte, N. C.
Guard Womble Raleigh, N. C.

Ly
VV

STUDENTS GET HOLLINS AID

Washington and Lee’s Troubadours have enliste
aid from Hollins College for a production, “Holiday
which they are presentinng during March. The pl
in a three-act society comedy written by Phillip Bz

Two performances, one in the Hollins Little
atre and the other in Lexington, have been schedulec

The girls who have been given parts are: Mi
Shirley Newbould, Miss Claire Mookler, Miss
Wood, Miss Jane Falk, and Miss Adria Kellogg.

The students performing are: Walter Johnsto
Burroughs Hill, Arthur Lamar, William Hawkins,
liam Newland, and Franklin Jones. ;

Miss Susie Blair of Hollins and Mr. Arthur Moe
of Washington and Lee are directing the comedy. —

ry
| aan:

MISS BURDETTE COPIES PORTRAITS

Miss Hattie E. Burdette, artist of Washington, w
in September was in Lexington and painted a copa
Peale’s portrait of Washington that hangs in Lee }
morial Chapel, to be hung in the restored Arlingtor 4
again in Lexington engaged in similar work. She
making a copy of Peale’s portrait of Lafayett
also to be seen hanging in Lee Memorial Chapel. M
Burdette is making a copy of the Lafayette portrait fi
the Society of the Cincinnati. It is expected also”
Both of these copi
are to appear in the replica of Mount Vernon, soon -
be opened at the Paris exposition.

ry
Vv

Dr. Samuel McP. Glasgow, of Knoxville, Tent
writes us as follows: “I do not want to miss a sing
copy of the Alumni Magazine. I think it is gilt ec
stuff !’’ q

S. S. Guerrant, Jr., has been with the Mutual
Insurance Co., of New York for four years. He is¢
interested in apple growing. His home is at Boo
Mill, Va. 3

Ly
4

John Stecker Lewis, ’72, died recently in Nashvill
Tenn., at the age of 80. =

a. ewe a 2 VM N

I

mA G A 2. Bae es

 

a

Witten Outlines Plan for 1931 Finals

AURENCE C. WITTEN, chairman of the
iF Alumni Committee for Finals, has made his
report to Judge E. C. Caffrey, president. De-

tails ot Finals’ plans, as outlined by the committee, are
found in the following letter:

Judge E. C. Caffrey, President,
Alumni Incorporated,
Washington and Lee University,

Dear Sir:

The Committee appointed by yourself on June 9,
1930, to meet at as early a date as possible tor the pur-
pose of drafting a program for interesting alumni in
returning to college on the occasion of the 1931 Com-
mencement, met in the Alumni Building at 9:30 A. M.,
Saturday, October 25th. There were present Dozier
A. DeVane, M. W. Paxton, Jr., Frank Gilliam, H. K.
Young, and the undersigned.

The chief subject of discussion was the develop-
ment of a program, which, when broadcast to the Al-
umni, would not only interest them in returning to Lex-
ington, but would give to those who did return some-
thing interesting to do.

It was generally agreed that an effort should be
made to get Alumni to arrive in Lexington on the
Sunday preceding the Monday of commencement week,
which is Alumni Day. Through the cooperation of
the Lexington Alumni arrangements will be made for
those who may desire to play golf on the Lexington
course upon payment of greens’ fee.

Sunday evening a smoker will be held. It is rec-
ommended that efforts be made to get all Alumni to
attend this smoker, which will be under the auspices
of the Lexington Alumni.

Monday morning the Alumni Meeting will be held
at 10 A. M. in the library and the Committee purposes
to ask for suggestions on subjects for discussion at this
meeting.

At the same hour Mrs. Young has very kindly
consented to arrange for a bridge party at the Alumni
Building for the enjoyment of ladies who may accom-
pany their husbands, sons, or brothers to Lexington.

At 1 P. M. the Alumni luncheon will be held in
the college dining hall.

Efforts will be made to have either a varsity base-
ball game, or a game between the Varsity and Alumni
arranged for Monday afternoon.

Efforts are also being made to have the boat race
moved back to Monday afternoon, as it was the custom
for many years.

In any event, plans are under way for arranging a
soiree to be held on the Athletic Field, starting with a

late afternoon supper, the outstanding occasion of this
gathering. A good time should be had by all at this
event.

Efforts will also be made to secure a good speaker
for our luncheon.

The Committee further discussed the advisability
of again having the Alumni gathering in the fall at
the time of the Homecoming game. If this is done
Alumni will be urged to arrive in Lexington on Friday
before the game in order that we may have our meet-
ing on that day without the interruption of the foot-
ball games, which we will all want to see the next day,

We consider that we have a truly great task to
perform for Washington and Lee but we know that
the conquering spirit is present in the hearts of every
real Washington and Lee man. Our Alma Mater
needs us today as never before. We have in Dr.
Gaines a vigorous, farseeing, young President. We
have an able, loyal and hard-working Director of Ath-
letics in the person of the genial Dick Smith. We
are most fortunate to have as Alumni Secretary, Fresh-
man Coach and general good fellow, our beloved Cy
Young.

Let’s all get right behind these men and come back
to Lexington to show them that we are with them and
to do the things that need to be done.

Respectfully submitted,
LAURENCE C. WITTEN.

 

fy
VV

SIX DEBATES ARE ON SCHEDULE.

The spring debating schedule, announced by T. W.
Davenport, debate manager, consists of six debates, all
of them to be held on the Lexington campus. An ex-
tensive trip is planned next year for return engage-
ments with this season’s opponents.

The Philodemic Society of Washington will come
here March 6, to debate the affirmative side of the
question, “That the Eighteenth Amendment should be
repealed and the liquor traffic left to the several states.”

Further contests are with Gettysburg College, Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, Western State Teachers College
of Kalamazoo, Michigan, University of Florida, Uni-
versity of Tennessee, and Western Reserve University.

eT ii

Rev. J. W. Claudy, D.D., ’09, made the inaugural
prayer at the recent inauguration of Gov. Gifford Pin-
chot, of Pennsylvania. Dr. Claudy is a member of the
State Committee for Crippled Children; the Board of
Managers of Western Penitentiary, and Director of
the Metropolitan Y. M. C. A., of Pittsburg.

[ 23 ]

eS A LL Ue

CANDIDATE FOR SENATE.

J. W. (Jack) Eggleston, ’10, prominent lawyer and
former president of the Norfolk-Portsmouth Bar As-
sociation, has announced his candidacy for one of the
two seats in the Virginia State Senate from Norfolk
City.

Mr. Eggleston is 44 years old, a member of the Vir-
ginia State and American Bar Associations, and has
been practicing his profession in Norfolk for 20 years,
following his graduation from Washington and Lee,

I

y

a

AMM ESE Re

J. W. EccLeston

 

with B.A., M.A., and LL.B. degrees. He is a member
of the law firm of Vandeventer, Eggleston & Block.
Mr. Vandeventer is also a Washington and Lee man of
the class of "97. Mr. Eggleston is married and has
three children.

Mr Eggleston is a member of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity. He won the Mapleston Scholarship at W. &
L,. and was a member of the Executive Committee. In
1922 Mr. Eggleston won the Virginia State Champion-
ship in Tennis in both singles and doubles. He says
he has long since graduated from such strenuous ath-
letics and is now content with being a “dud” at golf.

Joseph Chester Fargo Clark, 92, died in Augusta
Georgia, on January 7, 1931.

[ 24 |

  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
   
    
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
  

Mn SG. me

TUCKER ADDRESSES ALUMNI

Growth of Washington and Lee—much of it ip
tangible but nevertheless extremely progressive and
worth while—was outlined for Richmond Alumnj of
the University on February 23 by Dean Robert 9
Tucker. Speaking before a large group of graduate:
and former students in the Commonwealth Club, D wal
tor ‘l'ucker emphasized the fact that the South is char r-
ing as rapidly in the educational field as in the indus.
trial field, and that an important page in history of the
educational South will be written in the next ten years,
Washington and Lee should not attempt to compet
with state-supported universities in size, but rather ig
quality of work, thereby filling a distinctive place ag
a compact group translating the South’s traditions ¢ id
ideals in its work, Doctor ‘Tucker said. a

I

Doctor Tucker described University progress ¢
the last fifteen years which is of such nature that
is not visible to the casual observer. He mentioned ig
particular the reorganization of the college curriculur
which he considered in many respects a moverm en
which places Washington and Lee in advance of mos
institutions in the South. In this connection he poir
ed out the high standing accorded in the University ig
the academic world, and stressed the fact that all pre
fessional schools and departments of the institution:
law, commerce, engineering and applied science, am
journalism, have been given the highest rating by thei
respective national associations. ’

George C. Peery, member of the State Corporatil
Commission, was elected president of the Was
and Lee Alumni Club of Richmond for the year, sue
ceeding Dr. A. A. Houser, who presided. O. M
Stumpt, vice-president, and Joseph E. Birnie, secretary:
treasurer, were re-elected. 2

Doctor ‘Tucker, who served as acting president 6 2
the University between the resignation of Dr. Henry
Louis Smith and the induction of Dr. F. P. Gaines, out
lined the problems of the institution, and appealed fo Ir
the aid of the alumni organization in establishing con-
tacts with the right type of prospective students
with philanthropists and other benefactors of education.

Washington and Lee should keep its enrollment
below 1,000 students, create close personal contacts
with them and seek to express through this small body
the highest type of Southern culture, Dr. Tucker said

Among the large group of alumni present were a
H. Morrissett, State Tax Commissioner; Judge Loui }
Epes of the State Supreme Court; State Corporation
Commissioner George C. Peery ; Major LeRoy Hodges,
managing director of the State Chamber of Commerce,
and Councilman Carleton F. Jewett. 4

Ralph Daves, ’26, is Manager for Warner Brothers
of the New Theatre in Lexington, Va.

1 |

——

aoe oe Mw UN

moe GS Ae a es

Press Protests at Tyler's Retirement

HE report that Stockton Heth Tyler, Mayor of
| Norfolk, Virginia, since 1928, intended to re-
=| tire from that office, raised a storin oi protest
irom the Norfolk newspapers.

We quote, in part, from an editorial in the Vir-
ginian Pilot:

‘He (Mr. Tyler) came to the Council uot as an of-
fice seeker but as a busy professional man drafted by
his fellow citizens for a tour of public duty. A nat-
ural capacity for leadership coupled with a deep under-
standing of the city’s business led promptly to his elec-
tion as President of the Council. At each reorganiza-
tion of the Council he has been re-elected. As presid-
ing officer he has known how to guide the Council's
proceedings on an even keel, when to lead and when to
follow, when to’ be firm and when to yield. He began
his public service in a difficult transitional period when
the city, but lately emerged from the violent post-war
deflation, was struggling in a swamp of recurring an-
nual deficits to find dry land and budget solvency. Many
minds and hands were mobilized to the work of re-
turning the city’s business to a solid footing, and Mayor
‘Tyler would be the first to insist on a broad apportion-
ment of the credit for it. But his colleagues in the
Council and informed citizens generally, know that in
this work of municipal housecleaning, Mayor ‘Tyler
was one of the far-sighted leaders.

If now that some of the more pressing municipal
perplexities have been overcome, Mayor Tyler feels
that he is entitled to be relieved from burdens that have
for several years subjected him to a severe physical
strain, one must respect his wish to lay part of the
burden down. ‘The matter being so clearly personal
one hesitates to press the community’s claim to his ser-
vices. Nevertheless the Virginian-Pilot hopes, and in
this hope is joined by many thousands in the city, that
before another September rolls around, Mayor Tyler
will find himself sufficiently restored to view his con-
tinuance as Mayor with less foreboding than he mani-
fests now, and that when his colleagues invite him to
carry on he will find it possible to accept.”

=
Vv

   

 

New fraternity houses are contemplated by Sigma
Chi, Lambdra Chi Alpha, and Kappa Sigma.

Exceptional offers by contractors during the busi-
ness depression, while materials and labor are cheaper,
have prompted the fraternity building program. Plans
are complete on none of the houses, but financial con-
ditions, prospective locations, plans, and general ar-
rangements are under consideration.

Four new houses built last year are Alpha ’T'au Ome-

ga, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Nu, and Pi Kappa Alpha.

[ 25 ]

 

StrocKTton Herta TYLER

Y. M. C. A. CONCLAVE HELD FEB. 13-15.”

Seventy delegates from most of the preparatory
schools of Virginia met at Lexington February 13-15,
for the State Y. M. C. A. conference.

Addresses were made at the sessions of the confer-
ence by President Gaines, Reverend Dr. Churchill Gib-
son of St. James Church Richmond, Mr. James Apple-
by, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond; Dr.
W. H. Moreland, Dean of Washington and Lee Law
School; Dr. E. F. Shannon, head of the University
English department; EK. P. Tompkins, M. D.; the Rev-
erand Mr. John Gray, and Mr. B. Lee Kagey. The
speakers advised the delegates, through the experience
of their own professions, on the nature and choice of
vocations.

fy
VV

R. H. Bader, ‘O09, is serving his second term as a
member of the House of Delegates of Virginia, repre-
senting the City of Harrisonburg and Rockingham
County.

fy
VV

W. T. Green, ’25, is Chief Coal Inspector for the
Carbon Fuel Co., at Carbon, W. Va.

Ei re es AE ©. 4

JUDGE A. C. BUCHANAN, LL.B., 1914.

A. C. Buchanan was born in Tazewell, Va., Jan.
7, 1890. He received his A.B. degree from Hampden-
Sidney College in 1910 and his LL.B. from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1914. He entered the practice of his
profession in Tazewell with the firm of Chapman,
Peery & Buchanan, and was elected Mayor of the town

 

Jupcr A. C. BucCHANAN

of Tazewell in 1916, serving until 1920; was Commis-
sioner of Accounts for Tazewell County from 1918 to
1927, at which time he was elected Judge of the 22nd
Judicial Circuit of Virginia. He is a member of the
Board of. Trustees of Hampden-Sidney College and a
member of the Judicial Council of Virginia.

~O

CHEMISTRY CLUB TO GO NATIONAL

The local chemistry club is expected to go national
in the near future.

In-the past, the members of the American Chemical
Society in this section of Virginia have banded together
to form a club called the Southwest Virginia Chemistry
Club. This club has been a local organization sepa-
rate from the American Chemical Society. If the pro-
posed resolutions of the Virginia Section of the Ameri-
can Chemical Society are adopted, the Southwest Vir-
ginia Chemist Club will form the Southwest Virginia
section of itself,

 

[| 20 ]

I

   
    

¢

M-eA G A 24a

W. G. Crockett, chairman of the Virginia Section ~
executive committee, said a few days ago that the South.
west Club was being given up with a feeling of reluc. a
tance that was overshadowed by a feeling of satisfac. ~

tion due to the beginning of a bigger role in American
chemistry.

The new section will be formed in the territory —
west and south of, and including, the counties of Alle-
ghany, Rockbridge, Amherst, Campbell and Pottsyl-
vania. Dr. L.
headquarters of the new section will probably be in
Roanoke.

members.
constantly being discovered.
three magazines.

Society, Chemical
gineering Chemistry.

’

Harry K. Young, Esquire,
Secretary Alumni, Inc.,

Lexington, Va. :

My dear Cy:

Complying with your letter of January 10 I enclose
herewith my check for $4.00 to cover my subscription
to the Alumni Magazine for two years.

I have nothing to report that may be of interest to.
any of my classmates. ‘The general activities of the-
College and its promise for the future afford us all

enough to command our entire interest outside our

immediate personal activity.

1 cannot refrain, however, from expressing the
great satisfaction which I personally derive from the in=_
terest which Mr. John W. Davis shows in the affairs of”
the College. I know of no other personality connected —
with it or its history, save General Lee, who has com-—

Davis has

pelled my unreserved admiration as Mr.
done.

ure of having him with us here on January 19.
x x * * * *

With kind regards, I am
Sincerely yours,

S. H. WILLIAMS.

 

Robert H. Carr,
Lumber and Supply Co., of Jasper, Alabama.
be in Lexington for Finals.

fy
Vv

John William Greene,

nd
aaa
Caen

et _—-

S. Desha of Washington and Lee says

The American Chemical Society is the largest or-
ganization of its kind in the world and has over 15,000 —
Its purpose is to unite the chemists of the.
country and publish new facts of chemistry that are
The society publishes
The Journal of American Chemical”
Abstracts, and Industrial and En-~

January 9, 1931. 4

Although I have never met him his personality ~
and achievements, particularly in the profession of -
which I am a member, have excited my profound re-~
spect, and I sincerely trust that we may have the pleas-_

23, is with the Keeton-Massey ©
He will —

la

Ul

'24, is practicing law with of- ~
fices in the Bankers Trust Building, Knoxville, Tenn. ~

——

a a ee ae

T aie 2M ON

I

ma wtA G Oe. 2 Roe

 

RELIGIOUS LECTURES GIVEN

A lecture on “Mohammedanism” by Dr. Sufi Mu-
tiur Rahmon Bengallee culminated a series of lectures
in the Lee Memorial Chapel by representatives of var-
ious religions and beliefs. The talks, sponsored by
the Washington and Lee Christian Work Association
under supervision of Munsey Gleaton, attracted wide-
spread interest. Beginning on February 5 the speakers
were presented weekly.

The first talk was made by Rabbi Morton M.
Berman of New York, an associate of Rabbi Wise at
the Free Synagogue. He spoke on “Why I am a Jew.”

The Rev. James Myers, industrial secretary of the
Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America,
spoke next on “Essential Elements in Christionity.”
He treated his subject from a Presbyterian standpoint.

The next lecture was by Kader Nath Das Gupta,
who talked on “India and Hinduism.” Mr. Das Gup-
ta, a native Hindu, revealed many startling beliefs of
his people. He is organizer of the Threefold Move-
ment—The Union of East and West, The League of
Neighbors, The Fellowship of Faith—and has been in
England and the United States for twenty years carry-
ing on his missionary work for the Hindu. He is en-
deavoring to bring about a better cultural and racial
understanding between East and West.

The last lecture was by Dr. Bengallee, whose home
is in Qualian, India. Mr. Bengalee has been appoint-
ed to a two year missionary expedition of this country.
His affiliation with the Moslem religion keeps him in
contact with 20,000 Moslems, in America.

Mr. Gleaton, Christian work secretary, believes
the talks a decided asset to broadening minds of the
students. With so many phases of religious thought
presented, he says, there is excellent material to keep
one’s mind open to beliefs of others.

Mr. Glaton plans to continue his program of speak-
ers this year and will arrange to have them treat other
subjects than religion, during the remainder of the
school year.

 

Ly
VV

BLEDSOE RESIGNS FROM SCHOOL.

Page Bledsoe, captain of the Generals’ football team
of 1930, president of the Athletic Council, resigned
from the University at the end of the first semester.
Prior to his departure he issued the statement: ‘I am
leaving school in order to go to work. I came back to
Washington and Lee this year to obtain an M.A,, but
have since changed my plans.”

Bledsoe was prominently connected with numerous
campus activities for several years. He is a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity, Monogram Club, Cotillion
Club, and Interfraternity Council. He made his num-
erals in freshman football, and played Varsity end for
three years. His home is in Sykesville, Maryland.

1911 LAW CLASS PUBLISHES ANNUAL.

Since graduation in June, 1911, the Law Class of
that year has published annually a booklet containing
letters from members of the class, news of others, and
letters from the Dean and Professors in the Law School
of that date.

The 1931 Annual has been received in the Alumni
Office and is a very interesting publication. John F.
Brown, of Elkins, W. Va., Secretary of the Class, is
the editor.

The cover carried a picture of Dr. Francis Pendle-
ton Gaines, in his academic robes, and on the inside is
a picture of Dean Moreland. It contains letters of
greeting from Dr. Gaines, Dean Moreland, Cy Young,
and many communications from members of the class.

Ly
a

PEERY ADDRESSES ALUMNI

“The life, the influence and the example of Gen-
eral Lee have been the greatest factors in the growth
and development of Washington and Lee University,”
Judge George C. Peery, of the state corporation com-
mission told the Washington and Lee Alumni Asso-
ciation at its meeting in the Commonwealth Club,
Richmond, January 19.

“Brick, mortar and stone do not of themselves
make a university,” he said, “neither does money. The
men‘who teach and the spirit of the teaching do make
a great university. The young man who, as a student,
breathes the atmosphere of Washington and Lee, who
is privileged from time to time to stand uncovered be-
fore the tomb of Lee and stand in mute admiration be-
fore the matchless statue that adorns the Lee mauso-
leum, takes with him through life an influence that will
carry to the end.”

i. |
Vv

PRESENTATION OF OIL PAINTING

Presentation of an oil painting of Judge Stafford
G. Whittle, of Martinsville, Va., was the feature of
the opening session of the March term of the Vir-
ginia supreme court of appeals in Richmond on March
10.

Judge Whittle was a member of the supreme
court of appeals from 1901 to 1920, at which time
he retired.

Judge Whittle did not attend the ceremonies but

. members of his family were present.

Judge Whittle is a member of the class of ’69,
and his sons, Kennon C. Whittle, ’14, and Randolph
G. Whittle, ’24, are also alumni.

nei
Vv

Norton Wisdom, ’27, writes from New Orleans,
—‘In the collegiate handicap held recently, the W. and
L. horse with a negro jockey up (a bit incongruous)
won and paid $53 to $1, fancy that.”

[ 27 ]

a eet mam ih Ao oe

CELEBRATES EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY

Dr. S. H. Chester, ’72, celebrated his eightieth
birthday at the home of his daughter, Mrs. Wright
MacMillan, in Passiac, N. J., on January 17, 1931. Dr.
Chester was for thirty-five years Secretary of Foreign
Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church, He
was retired from this position in 1926 at the age of 75,
and is now Secretary-Emeritus.

Dr. Chester received his M.A. from Washington
College in 1872 and was valedictorian of his class. He
is one of three survivors of the twenty-one students sta-
tioned as a guard of honor beside the body of General
Lee, as it lay in state in the College Chapel ; they are S.
H. Chester, Nashville, Tenn., W. McChesney, Staunton,
Va., and Rt. Rev. James R. Winchester, of Little Rock,
Ark.

 

DEATHS

A. TYSON HARRIS

Archibald Tyson Harris, junior at Washington
and Lee, died Tuesday afternoon at 2 o’clock in Jackson
Memorial Hospital following an illness of several weeks
with influenza-pneumonia. The pneumonia symptoms
had improved greatly but he succumbed to heart fail-
ure.

 

The body was taken to Lynchburg Tuesday night
to go to his home in Montgomery, Ala. No services
were held here, at the request of his parents.

Young Harris was born in Montgomery March 26,
1911, and was twenty-years old. He entered Washing-
ton and Lee in the fall of 1928, was a member of the
Phi Delta Theta fraternity and a popular and promis-
ing student. He was a son of Robert Harris of Mont-
gomery and his mother was before marriage, Miss
Laura May Tyson. His parents and an uncle, Dr.
John Harris of the faculty of the medical school of the
University of Wisconsin were here during the latter
part of his illness. He is survived by his parents, one
brother and one sister.

Young Harris was a grandson of Judge John R.
Tyson, of Alabama, whose name he bore. The wife of
Judge Tyson was Miss Mary Jordan, a daughter of Dr.
James Jordan, long a prominent physician of Rock-
bridge, including Lexington. The young student re-
turned in a sense to the home of his fathers in coming
to Washington and Lee to study. He is a great-nephew
of Miss Nannie Jordan of Lexington.

ARCHIBALD MAGILL ROBINSON, 78.

Archibald Magill Robinson, ’78, died on Friday,
February 6, at his home in Louisville, Ky.

“Arch,” as he was known to many of the older al-
umni, was about 74 years of age, and was a son of R. A.

[ 28 ]

  
  
    
    
   
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
    
   
 
   
    
   
  

MA G A 2 Ss ee

Robinson of Louisville, and was the last of four brott
ers who graduated from Washington and Lee. ‘Tt
eldest brother, George, married Miss Rosa, daug ate
of Col. William Preston Johnston, then of Lexing
The other brothers were Alec and Lee. Arch Robin
son came to college from the old Rugby School of Louis
ville, and was a member of the S.A.E. fraternity, an
played on the famous baseball team with George Syke
and Will McElwee as the battery. After leaving col
lege he was one of the founders of the woolen mi
business in Louisville, later entering the wholesale har
ware business. For many years he has not engaged i
active business, but has been occupied with the manage
ment of a large fortune. He has frequently visited ij
Lexington and was keenly interested in his Alma Mat
and his fraternity chapter.

-
a

  

William H. Mourning, ’92, died Jan. 8, 1931,
Louisville, Ky. .

 

°

ENGAGEMENTS

The New York Times of March 9th announe
the engagement of Miss Elizabeth Barstow to Dr. Je
rome P. Long, Jr., ’24, to take place in June.

Doctor Long is now practicing in Memphis
Tenn.

The engagement has been announced of Raymor
Dupuy Smith, ”’22 to Miss Julia Winston Ashworth
of Selma, N. C., the marriage is to take place some tir
this summer.

 

o

MARRIAGES

Announcement has been received in the Alumn
Office of the marriage of Joseph Lamar Lanier, ’27
to Miss Lura Brown Fowlkes, on February 17, at th
Highlands Methodist Church, Birmingham, Ala.

An invitation has been received in the Alumni Of
fice to the marriage of Miss Irma Jones Buckingham t
Walter Nelson Pharr, ’27, Lieutenant U. S. A. Ait
Corps, on Tuesday, March 3rd, in the Calvary Episee
pal Church, Memphis, Tenn. |

Harry Van Metre Campbell, LL.B., ’17, was
ried Thursday, January 22nd, to Miss Esther MacKen-
zie Tyler, daughter of Rev. and Mrs. Samuel Roge s
Tyler, at Trinity Episcopal Church, Huntington, W. Va
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell will make their home in Che
leston, W. Va.

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, ’15, was married Nov.
15, 1930, to Miss Louise Fishburn, of Roanoke, Va. —

|

T 2 AL Ap m=

ALUMNI GROUPS GATHER
(Continued from page 6)

Jr., 27, Russ A. Pritchard, ’29, Robert W. Pharr, ’29,
C. Penn Owen, ’24, Galla Paxton, ’17, Dr. Geo. L.
Raines, ’21, Charles Porter Snyder, '24, I|,eon Stern-
berger, ’27, Nat Summerfield, ’24, Jno. K. Speed, "is.
Howard Tayloe, ’28, Norfleet Turner, ’26, Wm. P.
Warfield, Jr., ’28.

LOUISVILLE

On Wednesday evening, February 11, 1931, the
Louisville Alumni Club had a most enjoyable banquet
at the University Club. This meeting afforded the
local alumni their first opportunity to hear and talk
with President Gaines and was attended by seventy
alumni, their guests, and parents of members of this
year’s student body.

Dr. Gaines was introduced by R. P. Hobson, ’16,
president of the club, and made a most interesting talk
in which he discussed briefly the present activities of
Washington and Lee, and his hopes for the future of
the University. Everyone enjoyed hearing Dr. Gaines
and felt that the University is to be congratulated on its
new president.

It had been announced that H. K. “Cy” Young
would accompany Dr. Gaines to Louisville, but to the
disappointment of everyone he could not come, and
Mr. Hobson read a telegram in which he expressed his
regret at not being present and extended his best wish-
es to the club.

Among the alumni present was Judge J. P. Hob-
son, ’70, of Frankfort, Ky., the father of Mr. R. P.
Hobson. Judge Hobson, who was a student at Wash-
ington College during the presidency of General Lee,
was introduced to the meeting by Mr. John J. Davis,
92, and told of many interesting and amusing hap-
penings in Lexington during the life of General Lee.

The club has probably never had a meeting which
was better attended, and more enjoyed by everyone.

ATLANTA

Bruce Woodruff, of the Atlanta Alumni Associa-
tion, tells briefly of Dr. Gaines’ visit and the luncheon
at which he spoke.

February 13, 1931.
Dear Cy:

I am handing you herewith a list of the Alumni
who attended the dinner meeting for Dr. Gaines on Feb-
ruary 4th last. I may have missed one or two, as sev-
eral came by before the dinner, but could not remain.
However, Bunny Humphreys and myself have gotten
together and this is about as close as we can get it.

Needless to say all of us enjoyed meeting Dr.
Gaines very much, indeed. My only regret is that you

I

ak GS foe ZS ae oe
were not able to be present. I hope that you won't
wait too long before coming to Atlanta again.

We are planning to have another meeting sometime
soon—possibly on Washington’s Birthday—and really
get down to work. I will endeavor to keep you advised
of any and all activity here.

Hastily yours,

~BRUCE WOODRUFF

Willis M. Everett, W. W. Gaines, Edward L. Gil-
more, Alex M. Hitz, C. L. Kemper, Edmund B. Ma-
gers, William A. McCarthy, Walter G. McElreath,
Brooks Mell, Dr. Cyrus W. Strickler, Thomas Mac

Stubbs, Ewing S. Humphreys, Henry Peeples, May-

nard B. Smith, Bruce F. Woodruff, B. J. Mayer, La-
Grange, Georgia, John K. Martin, G. H. McKee, George
C. Moseley, Keith C. Rice, William C. Rice, William
H. C. Smith, Bill Ward, R. Turner Merritt, John L.
Daniel.

ROME

At Rome, Ga., the following alumni heard Dr.
Gaines :

Rowell C. Stanton,-P. L. Newton, R. N. Kankee,
A. F. Cantrell, Jr., John G. Ramey, Jr., Curry Porter,
W. F. Barron, John M. Graham.

CHARLESTON

The Washington and Lee Alumni Banquet, in
honor of President Francis P. Gaines, was held in the
Kanawha Hotel, on Saturday evening, Feb. 14th. Mr.
Lon Kelly, ’93, presided as toastmaster. The prin-
cipal speakers of the evening were Herbert Fitzpatrick,
Judge Jake Fisher, Waller C. Hardy, Riley Wilson,
and President Gaines.

Alumni present were:

Roy Slack, Carl K. Gilchrist, Dan Mohler, D. B.
Dawson, W. C. Revercomb, J. W. Schwabe, Sheldon
MeNeer, J. C. Morrison, Arthur L. Eberly, Sam Sil-
verstein, C. P. Lewis, N. C. Fitzhugh, $. C. Little-
page, A. M. Gilbert, J. L. Lowman, C. R. Hill, M. J.
Crocker. F. I. Sattes, E. B. Roeser, J. C. Henderson,
W. M. Gray, W. E. R. Byrne, II, Brown D. Truslow,
Riley Wilson, W. B. Watts, Herbert Fitzpatrick, Lon
H. Kelly, W. G. McCorkle, W. C. Hardy, Cprus W.
Hall, Wirt W. Donally, H. A. Hall, P. P. Gibson,
Claude Hill, Cy Young, Judge Jake Fisher, W. Gaston
Caperton, George L. Coyle, Robert Gorrell Kelly, W.
B. Kuykendall, Brown Lewis, W. D. Payne, A. A.
Payne, Charles G. Peters, B. W. Peyton, John D.
Preston, Joe Silverstein, Ira Simms, James K. Thomas,
Dorr M. Tucker, and Geo. Henry Williamson.

WASHINGTON

Washington and Lee Alumni of Washington, D.
C., gave a dinner in honor of President and Mrs.

[ 29 ]

1: ee A LL Ate oe

Gaines in the Florentine Room of the Wardman Park
Hotel on the evening of February 18th. There were
eighty persons present.

The room was attractively decorated for the
occasion. Elwood H. Seal presided. Hon. Wade H.
Ellis, °89 introduced Dr. Gaines, and Dr. Gaines was
followed by Hon. Harry St. George Tucker, ’75. Mr.
Seal writes that both Dr. Gaines and Mr. Tucker de-
lighted their hearers.

On behalf of the Alumni Mr. Dozier DeVane pre-
sented Mrs. Gaines with a bouquet of yellow roses.

Announcement was made that the Washington al-
umni will meet informally at one o’clock on the sec-
ond Saturday in each month at the Carlton Hotel.

Those present were:

Mr. and Mrs. Wade H. Ellis, Justice and Mrs.
Joseph W. Cox, Dozier A. DeVane, Dr. William Allen
Wilbur, Dean of Geo. Washington University, Walter
H. Dunlay, Charles A. Strahorn, Marvin F. Hummer,
Miss Dency Crouch, James C. Hobday, Mr. and Mrs.
A. W. Chase, Mr. and Mrs. Gus Louis, Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph A. Burkhart, John B. Ecker, William W. Glass,
Julian H. Black, Mr. and Mrs. David J. Price, Dr. and
Mrs. M. E. Martin, Chancellor and Mrs. Lucius C.
Clark, Mr. and Mrs. John D. Battle, Mr. and Mrs.
Robert H. McNeil, Mrs. Clara Gaines Fulton, Ruth
DeVane, Woodson P. Houghton, Mrs. George Ham-
ilton McNeil, Miss Luella P. Chase, Graham N. Low-
don, Mr. and Mrs. Theodore B. Benson, Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Kern Williams, Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Gutherie,
Mrs. William J. LaVarre, Bill Hill, Mr. and Mrs. I.
W. Hill, Miss Margaret Cranford, L. J. Rauber, Mr.
and Mrs. Elwood H. Seal, Mr. and Mrs. A. Dana Hodg-
don, B. C. Flournoy, Richard W. Hynson, Richard
W. Flournoy, Summerfield McCarteney, Mrs. L. S.
Cochran, Bernard R. Kennedy, John L. Harrison,
Henry V. Bell, Stanton L. Dorsey, Montague L. Lip-
pett, George McP. Minetree, Madison P. Coe, Mrs.
Frank Schlosses, Wade H. Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. John
W. Warner, Clifton A. Woodrum, Mrs. Rosa Mason,
Chief Justice and Mrs. Alfred A. Wheat, Chief Jus-
tice Wheat is Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.

ROANOKE

Roanoke, Va., alumni of Washington and Lee,
gathered fifty strong, for a banquet in the Patrick
Henry Hotel, on the evening of February 21, to meet
Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, the newly elected pres-
ident of the institution.

Randolph Whittle, president of the Roanoke Chap-
ter of the Alumni Association served as toastmaster.
State Senator Abram P. Staples introduced President
Gaines, and Paul Buford introduced Harry K. Young,
Alumni Secretary.

[ 30 |

I

  
   
   
  
   
 
    
  
  
   
     
  
 
 
  
 

Mt‘A'G (A 2 3a

The following alumni were present: "

Ran G. Whittle, 24, A. C. Dunlap, 96, Alex, }
Quarrier, ’23, Lee O. Fagan, ’26, B. E. Estes, 2
John Strickler, ’27, Walter W. Wood, ’25, S. S.
rant, Jr., ’23, B. G. Garrett, ’22, John C. James, 0
T. X. Parsons, ’21, Fred L. White, ’23, J. T. Englet
Jr., ’20, D. H. Daves, 18, Harvey B. Apperson, *]
Rufus C. Bowman, ’11, Robert M. Curtis, ’16, Abra
P. Staples, 08, Cy Young, ’17, Paul C. Buford, Jz
13, S. D. Stokes, ’96, Earl A. Fitzpatrick, ’29, Benj:
min Haden, ’15, R. B. Adams, 713, Edward H. Ou
‘29, George T. Ellis, Wm. A. Gibbons, Jr., ’21, Rob
A. Lapsley, Jr., 05, H. S. Moore, ’04, Isadore For
man, J. S. Sherertz, 12, Eugene C. Dickerson, ’12, a
gene C. Dickerson, ’13, James J. Izard, 18, He
B. Gregory, ’11, T. H. Keister, ’13, F. C. Jame
H. E. Mayhew, ’14, Hubert Snydenstricker, Wm. Pa
ton, 91, G. V. Yonce, ’13, M. P. Burks, Jr., ’05, Joh
C. Moomaw, ’11, E. W. Poindexter, ’04, Samuel
Guerrant, ’86, Geo. W. Chaney, ’11, Harry J. Ha an:
13, C. S. McNulty, 04, om J. Boxley.

F. P. Guthrie, is District Manager for the F

Corporation of America, stationed in Washingte
De .

 

Ly
Vv

Charles Carter Lee, ’24, is now Commonwealth’
Attorney for Fairfax County, Va.

 

PRIN ET ERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA |

 

 

 

o ao
Ce ee 7
ag

ass

a
Othe

¢ tales

a c- fy nl
fy
SoS
oe yin a ~

sr SDS OF

Mh 42

. ae

“

soe RE
a Cn Aber

-

4

Need
+

; sy

ao

oN
és

Say Sone
2 a ae er

- awa

~ MER tena

an i :
ak

“4,
4
v

-
t
vA,
HN

oo

ys

.

: ‘
Ne
inte
Sy
%

v6"
fs

9
4 a oi
ght mt ite ry eres
ee arn od on
, Mo eS! Lene
" : A e : ~ : z , en oe ia Rd
=", 2 : SEES < 2 5 ons i a ‘ , ° ys oe : “i 1 ae ; : ee < Ok APE
es a 4 at > a . rod: r « ae 5 . > a 2 » . A , a —
ae tas ; s - ¥ i eee yaks i ee : ee oh)
x ; . ‘ —

* *

i nr
° Bas eS
ee <a

~

Ye
‘ ay

SPY
\

pee
Dr eh

 

Communicate with Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Clothier, owners

 

Furest Caurrn

INVITES YOU

 

Make this convenient home “Where
the Charm of the Old South Abounds”
your headquarters when returning to
Washington and Lee.

Horest Gauern is located two miles
south of the Natural Bridge on Lee

Highway, U.S. Route No. 11.

and operators, Natural Bridge, Va.

(205g

Vo Try J =
- of yt

