fof umniMagazine

of Dashington and Lee University

The Second Annual Round of Letters

Vol. IX No. 3
January 1934 $2.50 a-year

 

 

—

Appalachian Association

J. M. Barker, Jr., Security Invest-
ment Company, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Bldg.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank
Building.

Charleston, West Virginia
C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton
Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building,
Hagerstown, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, 1309 Hoge Building.

Huntington, West Virginia
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building.

Jacksonville, Florida
R. A. Baker, 3238 St. Johns Avenue.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank
Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
George Burks, 421 Market Street.

Memphis, Tennessee
Maynard W. Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.

New York
Kdward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
EK. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank
Suilding.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
i. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title
Building.

Pocahontas Club
A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Roanoke, Virginia
Karl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City
Bank Building

Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life
Building.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and
Door Company.

Washington, D. C.

Woodson P. Houghton, Southern
Suilding.

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni,, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

Vol. IX JANUARY 1934 No. 3

 

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President................ Water A. McDonatp, 1910
Vice-President... JouN RANDOLPH ‘TUCKER, 1902
Secretary............ Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Tl TeG@m..<. . SS ee STUART Moore, 1915

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Dozier A. DEVANE, 1908
EKpwarp W. Les, 1913
Dr. Joun WiritiaAm CrLaupy, 1909
HERBERT GRANT JAHNCKE, 1930

 

 

Contents for January 1934

PAGE
rie =e VOsi Grit MEE. sak ee I sc oko ce oo noes ms 3
EROCIOCOM IN ys Fey GeV MMIOUUINTA 25 <5 cici-scviess. <deisdusscelbbaoveztsqcdieessel +
meme ee Oot ball Saae eeOF  5oosoio sso cocscscaacdnodh «ss «cpcedencoecees: 7
spouse Walkerme, cam, 16907 as 10
MP PCANS FOCI oecscsc......cccdscdaustesssscecteescAMM ss. deeaseoccl 1]
BE LAW, SCTIOGMMEIEINE BOD, 5... <:<0stusssonsech.-c. 0-0. cE lise .0 ES 13
PER, OVO SMES, oo54, 0-3. <c90h 5p tens steko ..hedaeee 15
Ps Mele Mines Xd CORAM 2. 5c 0th dc, MR Gases sob cst» oe cabced. costal 16
Harry St. George Tucker Carmichael, 1899.000000000000000000000.. 17
Family Relationships at W. and L...c...c..c.cccccceeeeeecceeeeeeeeee 19
ee eer: ‘ FiG8 Meee S5OY.S....,..sccies-.c.-sc0csityess sce 20
The Second Annual Round of Letters.....000.0000000000000cccccee 2]
The Class-Agents’: General Letters........00..00.0ccccccecceeccseeeesceee, 21
Local Alummi: Assoctation “ Nopes:.....0.5...0.....0cccisscselhgses..oc00e: 20
See SWUM fe cP, «oe ite Meee Se EAI, SEE coe 27
Tak: DAGHIETADE. 3. cts... casei aaa sch isasses Sa ESA? «cits oie: 31

[1]

Courtesy, The Explosive I:ngineer

GEORGE WALKER ST. CLAIR, 1891
Rector of Washington and Lee University
(See article on page 10)

 

a a WN MN

oe Oe es Sy ee

 

The President’s Page

s I write these lines in the opening days of the
New Year, I am conscious of several interesting
events in the calendar of our immediate future.
Just ahead is Lee’s birthday, Founders’ Day, with its
commemoration here on the campus, and with gather-
ings in several important alumni centers. ‘Then comes
Fancy Dress, our students’ finest and most vivid fes-
tivity. The new semester opens shortly and not far

away is the birthday of our other patron saint.

But no feature of our entire program is fraught
with more significance than a gentle deed which in
multiplied form will mark the next few weeks of Uni-
versity history. This is the sending of the annual letters

by class-agents to the various members of their groups.

It is hoped that these letters will furnish and elicit
information ; will draw some modest contribution from
those able to give to the support of the University’s
work in these days of dire need ; will stir in the embers
of recollection the bright flames of loyalty.

This service which these class-agents render is a
devoted contribution to the life of the institution, and
the cordial, generous response from their fellows grat-
ifies these writers and inspires, as nothing else could
do, those of us who are trying to carry on the work.

Of all conceivable plans, this one is probably the
best. Not through “hired experts,” not from some
central office of statistical and impersonal efficiency,
does this plan seek its end. It operates through the
intimate relationships of Washington and Lee men
with each other. Friend speaks to friend, or even
more accurately, brother counsels with brother in be-

half of their academic mother.

Such an effort
is consistent with
the ideals of Wash-
ington and Lee and
with its policy. For
this is an institution
of personal contacts.
We desire, almost
above all else, to
knit the widely scat-
tered personalities of
our alumni into the
strong fabric of a
common. interest.
But we like to feel
that the knitting is in

the gracious hands

 

of our own sons.

During the holidays, I received one of the most
moving letters that ever came before my eyes. A
father wrote concerning his son, brilliant boy and beau-
tiful soul, who had two years on this campus, went

home for a year of illness, and then died.

The father spoke of the love which the son had
for Washington and Lee; that he bore his illness with
a fortitude which he learned here; that the hope of re-
turning sustained him; that his final outing was to
watch our football team play; that his last audible
words were “Washington and Lee.”

Such love is a priceless treasure. Surely it glows in
the heart of many alumni. We pray that it may find

expression.

[3 |

tae ae eo 2 oe

Homecoming: A Symposium

~ Fripay and Saturday, the 10th and 11th of

November, 264 old students came into the alumni

office and registered. Many were here who did
not put their names in the book. Many more were in
town who did not have the time to come to alumni
headquarters. For every one who was accounted for, so
to speak, there were three who were at the game and
elsewhere. So the official estimate is that 1200 alumni
visited Lexington and the campus for Homecoming.

It is considered from these figures and from re-
ports and the feeling all over town, that this is the larg-
est, the most successful and happiest Homecoming we
have ever had.

The particular feature of the occasion was the
gathering of thirty-one former football captains or
representatives of teams as special witnesses of the
team of 1934 in their game with the University of
Virginia. They sat upon a special bench on the field
and they practically constituted the great football rally
at the gym the evening before the game.

There is still one man living who played upon the
first football team at Washington College in 1873—
Mr. J. B. Tutwiler of Blacksburg. The earliest team
represented was 1889—Mr. John Thompson Barnes,
Collector of Internal Revenue at Richmond.

Major-General Robert H. Allen, U. 5S. A., was
unable to be here to represent the team of 1890. W. C.
(“Levi”) Morton of the team of 1891 was asked to take
the place of William McChesney Martin, Governor of
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and member of
the University Board of Trustees, who was unable to
come. 1892 was represented by Mr. J. R. K. Cowan of
Christiansburg, and 1894 by Mr. H. H. Larimore,
General Counsel for the Missouri Pacific Railway of
St. Louis. And so on through the next three decades.
There were some men with their sons, who constitute
in their pattern, hope for the future. And the oldest
to the youngest got a great thrill and gave the stands a
thrill as they were introduced year by year.

There was no alumni luncheon this year, partly due
to the great crowd expected, that could not have been
comfortably entertained, but the fraternity houses had
open house for all alumni and there was no one who
did not find his particular place of welcome and his
special friends of former days. It was a very great
occasion. There was in the very atmosphere a feeling
of revival. There is abundant evidence that this is true.
There are many witnesses among those who came back
and found it true and some of them have written their

 

tL

MA GA. Zito

   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  

testimony. It is with very special pride that these are
collected here in a symposium. They come from mer
of intensely personal interests elsewhere and responsi-
bilities not related to the specialized life we lead in
this place. Yet there is in this diversified gathering of
feeling upon a single occasion, a peculiarly single
thought: the warmth of feeling for Washington and
Lee, the steadfastness of their loyalty and the streng
of their faith.

Cor. WALTER S. Forrester, 1880, retired, resi-
dent of Lexington: “Homecoming!” What a weal L
of pathos that brings. Memories of youth and hope
and innocence—-or maybe it was just ignorance, bu
those were blissful days. How many of us wished )
were as young as we were in those happy campus days
and just such irresponsible fools as we were then!

And how it warmed our old hearts to see 0 r
youthful successors standing firm-footed on the mo
tain peaks of hope, and looking out with steady anc
confident gaze on the sunrise of life—even as we dic
once in the long, long ago! !

And we beat Virginia, and that was what we
to see. “Who's that ringing the college bell?” w
asked, and they told us they were the freshmen. An
when we asked what they would do to them, they tol
us the freshmen were required to ring the bell whe
the University wins. And that was something new: fe
in our day, it was a high crime for anybody to ring tha
bell for anything but “Chapel” at eight-thirty in th
morning. 7

Chapel! Yes, and prayer-meeting Thursday eve
ings, and Sunday nights to church with our best girls
those were the most exciting events of our study da.
But was our life “one demnition horrid grind?” Ne
altogether, nor by any means.

Do you know, I looked long at the McCormic
statue, and it seemed to me that as the fine old gentle
man will have to watch the coming and going of count
less generations, through the future procession €
semesters—well, it could have been rather graceft
had the sculptor provided him with a chain, don’t
know ?

Some of us old boys were puzzled over Preside
Gaines. Our idea of a president was a wise-looking 0
bird with gray hair, or no hair at all: but the moder
Prexy has lots of wavy hair, and a boyish smile on
handsome face, that doesn’t seem a bit like what
were used to. We are not throwing off on Dr. Gaine

a

 

Hi fs a & NM. MN

7

———

hirsute equipment, because we know he has a lot
more under his hat besides hair, and yet we rather
expected to see an erudite-looker, like Dr. Harry
Donald Campbell, for instance. Now he really looks the
part, though, of course, anybody knows that no hu-
man being could be as wise as “Dean Harry” looks.

Well, in the evening, a bunch of us old boys got
together around a piano and raised our voices in what
we fondly thought was “close harmony,” fairly making
the welkin ring with “Homma-go-Wango, Sing-gum-
bum, King of the Cannibal Islands,’ and “Fairwell
Rockbridge Beauties, Farewell.’”’ Well we were getting
so sentimental that we were fair maudlin, when, from
an adjoining room, we heard a voice intoning this line
from the immortal Klegy, adapted to the present :

“The lowing herd winds slowly off the key.”

sut what did we care? We were back on the old
campus, and back in the old days, and boys again just
for tonight, and no latter-day under-graduate or re-
cent alumni could check the resurgence of youth in
our Homecoming happiness.

A Has Been.

[,, PretLow HoLianp, 1906, Suffolk, Va.: Of
course, it was a grand day; the sky was blue, the sun
shone, the band played, and the autumn leaves had
reached exactly the correct consistency of red and gold
and amber to make them most beautiful, and, of course,
we won and everyone came home with happy hearts
and pleasant recollections. However, over and above
the game, and the spirit, and the beautiful day, what I,
as an old alumnus, noticed most was how welcome Dr.
Gaines and all his staff of professors, the students and
all those in authority made the alumni feel. In fact,
how each and everyone in Lexington made them feel
that they were a real and important part in the day and
the game, and in the success of both.

Witt DELAPLAINE, 1909, Frederick, Md.: For the
first time since I left Washington and Lee in 1910, I
made a pilgrimage to Lexington on November 11. I
took with me my 14-year old son and two other young-
sters as insurance against possible feelings of lone-
someness and sadness which I was told I could expect
under the circumstances. My fears were all unfounded.
I enjoyed the Homecoming beyond all expectations.
My trip burst into flame again the smouldering spark of
loyalty for W. and L. What a thrill it was to see our
team beat Virginia! In my student days I never ex-
pected to see a W. and L. team play Virginia, much
less defeat her. As I sat in the Alumni office that Sat-
urday night, the door opened, and before me stood
“Chuck” Robinson of Pittsburgh, one of my old room-
Mates, the first glimpse I had had of him in 23 years.

I

[5]

~ @ 6.4 ££ 3°. 8

You can imagine the thrill I got when he shouted : “My
, Bill Delaplaine.” I brought home with me 100
feet of amateur movies as a memento of my trip, and as
a further reminder of the four delightful years I spent
at Washington and Lee.

 

JAmEs R. Caskie, 1906, Lynchburg, Va.: My own
pleasure in the gathering of alumni and meeting of old
friends would have paid me for many, many miles of
travel had it been necessary. I am quite sure that every-
one enjoyed it, and the result of the game in no way
detracted from that pleasure.

It was a most successful gathering of more alumni
than I have ever seen in Lexington. What a force could
be exercised if such a gathering could be mobilized:
for the good of the Association and University. I know
it is a difficult problem, but I only wish that the alum-
ni could be induced to hang around the Alumni head-
quarters more, so that we could see more of our friends
and renew more of our old associations. I blame no one
for this except we of the Alumni ourselves, and we all
owe a deep debt of gratitude to the powers that be who
organized and made possible the gathering. More power
to them and to you! With the enthusiasm engendered
by this one, I hope that the homecomings in the future
will, as they should, increase in attendance, enthusiasm,
loyalty and personal enjoyment to those who take ad-
vantage of the opportunity. It was a great day, a great
gathering, and a great game. Here’s hoping for more
of them!

Davin M. Barcray, 1898, the Cairo Hotel, Wash-
ington, D. C.: It was a most delightful day at Home-
coming. Everything was ideal and it could not have
been planned better. I met old friends and team-mates
I had not seen for years, which I enjoyed thoroughly,
all of which was climaxed by our splendid team beat-
ing Virginia. I express my appreciation and congratu-
lations to Captain Dick Smith, Tex Tilson, Cy Young,
and Captain -Amos Bolen for a very joyous day. All
the old alumni like the way things are running down
there now.

FRANK M. Pottock, 1921, Bluefield, W. Va.: I
enjoyed the occasion immensely and was particularly
pleased by the large number of alumni present. ‘This
is the first Homecoming game I have seen in several
years but I never expect to miss another if I can pre-
vent it.

I think the class-agent idea is a great one. It should
raise some money each year and, more important, keep
the alumni in touch with the college and their old class-
mates.

Henry N. Barker, 1914, Bristol, Tenn.: I en-
joyed beyond expression my trip back to Lexington for

8 6B a. 2 oe

the Homecoming game, and was indeed sorry that I
didn’t get to see you again after the game.

I don’t know of anything more enjoyable than a
trip back for one of these Homecoming games, seeing
old faces and new ones, and hearing the life history of
loved ones who were with you in school. It is also grati-
fying to see the improvements going on generally
around the school, and the fine spirit between the faculty
and the student body.

The game was interesting from start to finish and
| am proud of our team. I pray that I will be fortunate
enough to be on hand for the occasion in 1934.

Jupce Ausrey FE. StTropE, 1892, Lynchburg, Va.:
‘Returning after forty years to see a game between W.
and L,. and Virginia took me back to the time I saw
what I believe was the first football game between these
two of my Alma Maters. The effort to observe a strict
neutrality between my last love and a former love was
quite overcome in the enthusiasm of that winning run
which served to wipe out the sting of the first defeat
by the score of more than forty to zero.

There is life in the old girl yet.

Witiiam C. (“Lévi’’) Morton, 1892, Martins-
burg, W. Va.: Homecoming for me was a great joy
as we licked old “U-V-A”’, something we never did in
the old days. The introduction of former team cap-
tains or representatives during the intermission between
halves was a ten-strike and a good stunt.

But I had a real thrill when I passed through the
old familiar halls to the class-rooms of “Old Jim”
(White), “Old Nick” (Harris) ,“Old Aleck” (Nelson),
“Old Hatchet” (Harrison) and “Little Harry” (Camp-
bell). Many a lump rose in my throat as I stood
in these several rooms and visaged the striking per-
sonalities who presided there of yore.

Any fancied grievances or hardships had been
dissipated through the mellowing influences of time,
and there remained only profound reverence for these
self-sacrificing teachers and character-builders of the
youth of forty years ago.

Leon W. (SHorty) Harris, 1915, Bleckley Bldg.,
Anderson, 5. C.: It was certainly good to get back to
the old town once more and to see some of the fellows
of the old days. Really makes a fellow homesick to get
back more often. I feel that if all of us would take
a little time off and come back occasionally it would
really do us good. Was especially pleased at the show-
ing the team made on the 11th. It was a great victory
and Bill, my boy, was thrilled to death, and all he can
talk about now is when he gets up there, which will be
about five or six years yet.

It is my purpose to use every energy at my com-

[6]

I

 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
      
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  

m A G&© A JZ To

mand to have every W. and L,. man in South Caroljy
at Columbia next fall when we play Carolina. I wa
us to have a great get-together meeting there with ¢
old boys and the team and have a banquet and as: bj
a celebration as possible. 3

H. H. Lartmore, 1896, General Attorney and In
terstate Commerce Counsel for the Missouri Pacif
Railroad, St. Louis, Mo.: It was a great privilege to }
part of the Homecoming of November 11th, not s
much because of the football game, which I thorough}
enjoyed, but because of the presence of everythin
that goes to make up a Homecoming in the broades
sense. ;

What impressed me most was the very evident
fact that the University is now a joint enterprise of
Trustees, President, Faculty, Students and Alumni.

LAURENCE WitTtrEN, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio:
there are any of you fellows who were not at the Vir.
ginia game this year and who contemplate missing
another Homecoming because you don’t think you
have any fun, then I would just like to tell you that you
never had a better time in your life than you woul
have had with Cot Henley, Walter Hood, Hard-tach
Bagley, Riley Wilson, Lindsay Moore, Shirley Riley,
Dan Owen, Ted Schultz, Graham Sale, and .
others.

I know I have gotten away from class lines, bu
that is the beauty about Washington and Lee. Irre-
spective of classes, everybody knows everybody else.
I laughed from 2 o’clock Friday afternoon, when the
Birmingham Brigade appeared, until Cy Young got
me fighting mad in his great pep talk, and then I laughed
all next day until the game started. There were mo-
ments of near heart failure in that, but you can’t enjoy
a football game fully until you can sit with John and
Jim Izard, Joe Lykes, Monk Moomaw, and Morrison
Hutchinson and the Izard boys, (meaning not John
and Jim, but their fine, husky boys) and then see the
whole Blue team get into action, running the inter-
ference for Joe Sawyer’s 85-yard sprint for a touch-
down. Joe is a 10 second man, but no Virginian saw
him sufficiently to clock him. a

You get the feel of old Washington and Lee when
you see Dr. Gaines in the press box at a Freshman
game; when you grasp the great spirit of Tex Tilson;
when you hear Dick Smith remark on the singing at
Mercer Graham’s house, “Ain’t it great when we are
winning ?”’; and when you see Mason Deaver exempli--
fying the spirit of Lexington! I know Henry Boley
will be next!

Come on back, boys, 100 per cent strong, and get
young again at Homecoming!

Al

JOL
-

 

=H & Ae > RE NN

——

Dr. J. Morrison HutcueEson, 1902, Professional
Building, Richmond, Va.: | want to send my congratu-
lations upon the splendid tiomecoming on November
11th. I have rarely missed one in the past and have al-
ways en joyed them, but there was something about the
last that makes it stand out as incomparably the best.
This feeling was shared, | am sure, by many others,
particularly the older alumni.

The central idea of a Homecoming is, after all, the
bringing together of the past and present and there
js nothing that touches those of the past more than be-
ing made to feel that they play a definite part in the
scheme of things and that their presence amounts to
something. Your idea of collecting a group of former
students, who in their college days were identified with
football, is an excellent one and may be developed so
as to reach a larger group in other college activities.

looking forward to more occasions like Novem-
ber 11th and with my personal thanks, I am faithfully
yours.

Dozier A. DEVANE, 1908, Federal Power Com-
mission, National Press Building, Washington, D. C.:
There are a few things if done once will be repeated—
and one of them is Homecoming. As a child I once
heard an argument between two ministers about the
possibility of backsliding, which ended with a Metho-
dist minister saying, “If you don’t believe it just try
it.” That is my challenge to the alumni about Home-
coming. This year’s Homecoming was about the best
we have ever had and I hope it becomes a habit with
you as it has with me.

Joun Izarp, 1910, Asheville, N. C.: My recent
trip to Lexington to witness the Washington and Lee-
Virginia game was an experience which I will long re-
member and I feel greatly indebted for the invitation
which was sent out to former captains. My two little
boys have talked of nothing else since their return and
enjoyed with me the honor of occupying a bench on the
field.

I am sending my hearty congratulations to Tex
Tilson and all on the result of this season which I con-
sider the more remarkable in that it has been brought
about in such short space of time following years during
which the showing was anything but encouraging. My
attention was particularly attracted to the physical
condition exhibited by the players. Not a single man
had to be withdrawn during the Virginia game on ac-
count of injury, and at every substitution, the outgoing
player left the field with apparently undiminished vigor.
After all, the primary purpose of college athletics is to
add to the physical well-being of the students, and
from my observation the football squad shows the good
effects of wise training to a great degree.

I

a wk a a ee

Due to different circumstances my connection with
the University has been very remote of late. This has
been a source of regret and I have returned home from
this renewal of old associations with a very strong de-
sire that it be continued from now on with some reason-
able continuity.

 

Football Season of 1904
By ALBERT STEVES, JR., 1906

WHEN you go to a football game in this day and
time and see the enthusiasm displayed for twenty-two
men on a gridiron and then when you hark back to the
dim and distant past, it proves to you that you are get-
ting old. It proves that you are a “has been.”’ It proves
that the chimney corner and the blue wreaths of smoke
are for you, Brother.

So I attended a football game in the midst of all
present day enthusiasm and when I came home I didn’t
sit in the chimney corner because it was too hot, but I
did go over and reminisce with my dear friend and
neighbor, Bob Witt, of the time way back in 1904
when Washington and Lee played South Carolina a
Thanksgiving game at a County Fair in Sumter, S. C.
That was one of the first games that the Blue and
White ever played outside of Virginia and it was a
memorable occasion.

Tubby Stone was captain of the team and played
center and he was all that his name implied. He was
certainly the pivotal rock in the line. And remember
that those were the days when close formations were
the order of the day, when shin guards and nose guards
were used in lavish profusion and when shoulder pads
and these fancy doodaddles that they have around
their hips were absolutely unknown. Smut Smith played
left end with a nose guard but no helmet and his thin
jersey was usually torn to shreds in every game.

But, to come back to Thanksgiving, 1904. There
was a girl staying at Mulberry Hill who came from
South Carolina originally. She lived in Washington,
and the early part of the year we played Georgetown in
Washington and were mercilessly beaten by the Ma-
honeys, the Mahaffeys and the balance of the Macks.
Later on that year the girl went back home to South
Carolina, so I made arrangements to get a special car
out of Richmond to take us direct to Sumter. Of course
we went to Richmond, leaving at ten thirty in the morn-
ing on Wednesday, down the Virginia Creeper, and we
were due in Richmond about eight o’clock that night.
At six o’clock I realized that we were just a few miles
below Lynchburg and I asked the conductor to please
wire the Atlantic Coast Line and tell them about this
team being on the train and for them to please hold

te

1. 2. = A iL Ym aN

the train if we were late. I was assured that the train
would not be late into Richmond, and as soon as we
got there, we had to run from one station to the other,
and we did that realizing that we were a little bit
late to catch our train to South Carolina. I got to the
gates of the station and I asked where the train was,
hoping that it was also late. The gateman said, “Do you
hear that rumbling? That’s the train crossing the river,
but over there is your coach,” and there stood a bril-
liantly lighted pullman of the vintage of the World’s
Fair in Chicago in 1893!

There we were in a predicament. I had a guarantee
of six hundred dollars and seventeen men plus Coach
Balliett and Dr. Bitzer on my hands. I rushed around
Richmond in a hansom cab and finally got two or three
passenger agents out of bed and we took the Seaboard
Airline at eleven o'clock out of Richmond to arrive in
Columbia the next morning about nine o'clock. The
boys on the team acted magnificently. I gave them all
twenty-five cents for their supper and the next morn-
ing on the diner I told them they could have fifty cents
for their breakfast. John Ed Quisenberry sent me a
bill of $1.80 for that breakfast of his.

Speaking of old Quizzy; you know it is commonly
understood in the United States that the University
of Illinois, under Zuppke, originated the huddle system.
Well, that’s all wrong, brethren—all wrong. The hud-
dle system originated at Washington and Lee because
every time a signal was called (and remember there
was no five yard penalty for delaying a play in those
days) all the boys had to get back and tell John Ed
where the play was expected to go. Gee, those were
glorious days! Maddening, to be sure, but halycon days,
at that.

We arrived in Columbia, as I said, at nine o’clock
and again I had to find the passenger agents because
there was no train to Sumter. It was sixty miles away
and remember also that there were no roads, no auto-
mobiles, nothing of that sort, and here we were within
playing distance, as it would be today, of our field—
and still sixty miles away on Thanksgiving morning
with everything closed! I finally found a railroad yard
man and he kindly offered to get an old woodchuck
engine out of the shed and hitch it to a baggage car and
take us to Sumter. Again the boys on the team acted
wonderfully. They stoked that old woodchuck engine
and after about an hour we had steam up and away we
were to Sumter! We arrived there just about noon and
the game was called for two o’clock. Everybody was
tired because the night before there were seven berths
on that Seaboard Airline train—seven lowers and two
uppers for seventeen men. Well, we managed it some-
how. One boy was fortunate enough to be privileged to
sleep alone in an upper and of course, Balliett, Bitzer

I

[8 ]

MA iG A 24 @

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

and I sat up in the smoking car, where we found a ver
loyal alumnus of Washington and Lee who had’
heard of the place for years because he then lived
New York and was going south for the winter. He
up with us until he got to Raleigh and then got off, ar
we found he had a perfectly good lower unoccupie
You should have seen the rush that Balliett, Bitzer ¢
I made for that berth. I, being the smallest of the thre
and only manager of the team, sat up the balance (
the night in the smoking car. 7

As soon as we had a cold lunch in Sumter we ge
on a street car to go out to the Fair grounds. Yes sir
there we did have a specially chartered car. We mig}
have left that beautiful pullman in Richmond the nig
before, but we certainly did have a street car all to a
selves in Sumter and it was decorated with our colo}
and it was one of these side open affairs with the
running from side to side. We traveled in style
Sumter.

Well, we finally got to the game—tired, groggy
hot, and we got out on the field and they didn’t eve
have the gridiron marked off in five yard stripes.
member in those days it was five yards in three down
Governor Heyward, an alumnus of Washington an
Lee, was in a box and although he was Governor
South Carolina, his box was decorated in our ow
White and Blue. Well, we tried to run the ball aro 1
the field a little bit before the game and you would ac
vance three feet and slip back two in the sand. Ye
never saw such a football field in your born days—ne
of you except the memorable twenty of us who we
present from Lexington. I insisted that the haly
should be only fifteen minutes. There were also
quarters in those days.

So we kicked off. Sam Chilton, who did our kick
ing, made two attempts before he finally booted .
ball, because every time he would get up to the bé
he would slip in the sand. No football team worke
harder than did Washington and Lee on that ‘Thanks
giving day in 1904. ;

At the half, the score was nothing to nothing. On
of the most glorious feats that I have ever heard ¢
under such trying conditions. About two minutes Dé
fore the end of the game, however, the score was twef
ty-one to nothing in South Carolina’s favor, and Sé
Chilton again tried his faithful toe but again the sar
was against us, and the ball hit the crossbeam of th
goal post... . .

Such a worn out crowd of boys you never saw
your life as went back on our specially chartered stre
car to the hotel from the Fair grounds. The Sout
Carolina boys were lovely to us and during the
they had me wire Dr. Denny whether we could sté
over an extra day on account of a big dance that

 

T H E Ao? 4 MON

I

i Ro a ey ABS Gee, .

 

being held that night, and Senator Tillman, who was
then the big man throughout the South, had a son in the
law school at Lexington who was my very dear friend
—Henry C. Tillman—and the “Senator” was very
anxious for us to attend this dance. I had wired to Dr.
Denny during the half and when we arrived at the
hotel after the game I had the permission to stay. The
boys were dressing in a sample room on the lower
floor of the hotel and I told them what Dr. Denny had
said—that we could stay for the dance, but the unani-
mous cry was “Back to Lexington” so at eight-thirty
that night we caught a train in Sumter direct to Rich-
mond and we straggled back into Lexington on Friday
night.

Never during my more than a quarter of a century
in business have I worked any harder than I did those
three days from Lexington to Sumter and back, but
gee! the memory of them has filled my life with great,
great gladness.

H. H. Lartmore, 1896, general counsel for the
Missouri Pacific, St. Louis, came back to Homecoming
as a representative of the team of 1894. He says that
in his day there were men who played nine, ten, eleven,
twelve and thirteen years. Some of them were stark
bald and some had whiskers to their waist and wore
guards to protect them.

W. H. Kerster, 1894, Superintendent of Public
Schools in Harrisonburg, Va., writes,in a reminiscent
mood: Ever since I left Lexington in 1894 and came
here where I am beginning my fortieth year as head of
the schools in this city, I had returned to see the Wash-
ington and Lee and the University of Virginia game,
and have gone to Charlottesville likewise. I do not
remember that I have missed a game. Then, too, for
twenty years after I left Washington and Lee I sat on
the cliff over North River from which vantage point I
Watched the boat race, as I was for one year a mem-
ber of the Albert Sidney Boat Crew.

When I first played football we played in a corn-
field from which the corn had been removed but the
stubbles were there, located on the hill north of Wilson
Field. The next year we played on a temporary field
west of the Boom Hotel which now, I believe, is the
Lexington Golf Course. So far as I remember we
played on these two places. I remember we had our
athletic events on the fair grounds about a mile out of
Lexington.

When I was there we played the V. M. I., which
Was the most bitter and hardest fought game on our
schedule. Many is the time we fought the cadets with
fists, canes, rocks, legs out of stools, and on one or two
ccasions some shots were fired. T’o this very day I car-

ry an injured right hand received in an altercation with
one of the cadets. During all the years it has not failed
daily to notify me of this fact. Mike Wise who was de-
feated yesterday for the U. S. Senate was one of the
players on the V. M. I. team and many is the time I
have seen him scrapping with us just as he has been
with Senator Byrd for the past six weeks; he was a
scrapper from the heart. I have somewhere a picture
of one of the teams with two small children standing
in front as mascots which I should be glad to donate
to the athletic association if they have a place to pre-
serve such things. Cobb of Harvard was the Coach,
and I beleieve Wm. Mc. Martin, now of St. Louis, was
captain.

W. C. (Levit) Morron, 1891 team, Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Berkeley County, Martinsburg, West
Va.: A. H. (Andy) Woods was the captain of the ’91
team, and W. W. (Billy) Sale was the manager. ‘The
two of them came to my room, in the Stuart building,
and urged me to come out for quarterback. I hesitated
as I had not played football during my first three
years at college. However, I had been in training in
the “gym” all those years, and was physically fit, I
knew. Perhaps they had heard about this. Anyway, I
was invited by them to try for the position. Andy’s
picture does not appear in the football group which
was taken by Miley, the official photographer. This
picture has hung on the walls of my room wherever |
have lived ever since. Recently, I had a copy made
and sent to H. A. Albright, Columbus, Miss., one of
the best right tackles I ever knew.

The year 1891 was the first year we had a Coach.
The students paid him the munificent salary of $300,
the contract also requiring him to play centre on the
team. His name is * * * * Murphy.

As I recall it, the Rugby style of football was in-
troduced by Claude Sublett, Richmond, Va., in 1889.
sefore then the rule was that the ball must be kicked
and not passed or handled. A player could, however,
bounce the ball toward the goal with his hands—similar
to a basketball dribble nowadays—but it must be kicked
through the goal posts to count as a score. Talk with
G. D. (Gov.) Letcher about this. He with the two
Bruces (Walter and Malcolm), S. P. (Sandy) Fig-
gat, Sam Anspach and C. B. Anderson were the bright
and shining stars of those days.

The team of 1891—Manager—W. W. Sale; Coach
—* * * * Murphy; L. E.—W. R. Allen; L. T.—J. D.
McRae; L. G.—W. H. Keister; C.—* * * * Murphy;
R. G. —G. C. Stone; R. T.—H. A. Albright; R. E.—
A. H. Woods; Q. B—Wm. C. (Levi) Morton; L.
H. B—J. M. (Mike) Woods; R. H. B.—S. G. Ans-
pach; F. B.—J. R. T. (Ran) Carmichael.

[9 ]

a ee

George Walker St. Clair, 1891

Rector, WASHINGTON AND Lee University; President, JEwELL Ripck CoAL Corporation

Nox HE STATE of Virginia has claimed George Walker

St. Clair since his birth in Wytheville on Au-

gust 23, 1866 (the year after the closing of the Civil

War). His parents, Sarah Virginia Walker and David
Alexander St. Clair, were of Scotch-Irish ancestry.

His early schooling was obtained at the public and
private schools of Wytheville. After completing his
elementary studies, Mr. St. Clair felt the urge for a seat
in the courts, and, after working for several years in a
printing office in Wytheville, he entered Washington
and Lee University, in 1889, and began to study law.
He began the practice of law in Tazewell, Virginia,
on his twenty-fourth birthday (August 23, 1890), and
for a number of years enjoyed a very successful
practice.

Realizing the value of the coal lands of Virginia,
however, Mr. St. Clair invested all of his savings in
those fields and, with the rapid and extensive growth
of his private interests, he gave up the practice of law
in 1920 for the purpose of developing to a greater ex-
tent the coal lands in which he was especially interested.

The Pocahontas Mining Corporation, one of Mr.
St. Clair’s interests, owns approximately 18,000 acres
of land in Tazewell and Buchanan Counties, Virginia,
and in McDowell County, West Virginia. The Jewell
Ridge Coal Corporation, the operating company, leases
from the Pocahontas Mining Corporation, and is now
producing 3,000 tons of coal a day, or a capacity of
over 800,000 tons annually. The Virginia Smokeless
Coal Corporation is the sole distributor of the com-
pany’s products.

Mr. St. Clair is president of the Jewell Ridge
Coal Corporation, a senior member of the firm, Vir-
ginia Smokeless Coal Corporation; secretary-treasurer
and general manager of the Pocahontas Mining Cor-
poration; and vice-president of the Montrose Poca-
hontas Coal Company.

It is a coincidence that Mr. St. Clair should choose
for his wife a young lady of the same surname as his
mother. Miss Annie Huston Walker of Staunton, Vir-
ginia, became the bride of Mr. St. Clair, at Staunton,
on December 1, 1891. They have three children: Dr.
Huston St. Clair, Mrs. Margaret Moore, and Mrs.
Katherine Settle.

As Mr. St. Clair’s interests center around Taze-
well, he and Mrs. St. Clair have a residence there at
present.

[ 10 ]

_ sible out of the four hundred million dollars that

MA G&G A 2 eae

When asked to name his hobby, Mr. St. Clair
plied : “‘Work—that is my recreation and delight.”

  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  

One might credit him with an occasional hole-ij
one, judging from the fact that he is president of tt
Tazewell County Golf Club but, strangely enough,
frankly admits that he never played a hole in his lif

Mr. St. Clair was elected to the Board of Trus
of Washington and Lee University in 1901. He wz
elected Rector of the Board of Trustees in 1928. H
only son, Dr. Huston St. Clair, received his B.A. di
gree here in 1922. In 1930-31, Mr. St. Clair gave tl
sum of $25,000 as the beginning of an endowment
the Chair of the Bible. |

In competence, in public service, and in person
character, George W. St. Clair typifies the finest pro
uct of personality to which this University aspire
He has been, in addition, one of the most loyal ar
intelligent and unselfish friends of this institution th
it has claimed in all of its long history. |

 

Dr. Gaines CWA Head. in Va.

ANNOUNCEMENT of the appointment of L
Gaines, chairman of the governor’s unemployment f
lief committee, to the chairmanship of the state ei
works committee was made by Governor Pollard :
Virginia immediately after the Governor and L
Gaines, and a large delegation from Virginia had %
tended a nation-wide conference on civil works
Washington.

Following the general meeting, the Virginia grot
met separately and planned a far-reaching cam aig
to advise county, city, and town officials in the sta
what they must do to share in the fund. The state ei
works body will have charge of obtaining for Virgin
municipalities and counties the maximum amounts pe

been set aside by the public works administration fe
getting a large number of men at work quickly.

The actual direction in Virginia is committed to”
staff of experts, headed by the State Relief Administ
tor. Dr. Gaines is chairman of the commission that act
in this connection somewhat as a board of trustees, d
termining the larger policies and deciding upon sue
applications as may not fall within the clear specifica
tions of the law.

 

a me Oe UN

I

= 2 & eh 2. Fs we F

The Deans’ Reports

DEAN Ropert H. Tucker

184th session since the beginning in 1749, is
progressing in a manner which is gratifying from many
points of view.

The gradual decline in stu-
dent enrollment, which began in
1931, and has reduced the size
of the student body by approxi-
mately ten per cent, has apparent-
ly been checked. The enrollment
at the present time is substan-
tially the same as it was on the
corresponding date last year.
Faculty and students are pur-
suing their work with a zeal and
seriouness of purpose which
promise much for the future.

I trust it may be a source
of satisfaction to the alumni of
Washington and .Lee to know

SS CURRENT session at Washington and Lee, the

that their Alma Mater has
passed, thus far, through the
period of depression without

the signs of disorganization and
loss of morale which have ap-
peared in many privately sup-
ported institutions of learning.
Economies have been necessary,
to be sure, and the University
budget has been drastically cut.
These economies, however, have been based upon care-
ful investigation and have been effected in such a way
as not to impair the effectiveness of any important
phase of the University’s work.

 

Likewise there has been no sacrifice of standards,
either of entrance or of graduation.

With respect to entering students, the University
authorities have exercised every care to preserve the
high standards of personnel which have characterized
the Washington and Lee student body. These standards
have been adhered to, even though this has meant the
rejection each year of applications in sufficient number
to have kept the size of the student body up to the
level of the preceding years.

With respect to requirements for graduation, the
University has moved steadily forward. Courses and
“urricula have been from time to time reorganized and

 

strengthened, and otherwise kept abreast with the
times. Effort has constantly been made to preserve high
standards both of instruction and of student perform-
ance. The results in this respect are attested by the
growing size of the honor roll
for scholastic attainment and by
the increasing general average
of scholastic grades.

These phases of the Univer-
sity life are particularly import-
ant for an institution like Wash-
ington and Lee, which has chosen
to base its claims to recognition
not upon its numbers, or the ex-
tent of its buildings and equip-
ment, or even upon the variety of
its academic offerings, but upon
the distinctive qualities of its
work. If our institution is to
fulfill its chosen mission, it must,
above all, endeavor to instruct
with particular care, and to leave
with its students a residue of
aspiration which is not readily
obtainable elsewhere.

The faculty and the Uni-
versity administration are aware
of the responsibility that all
this implies. They are dedicated
to the accomplishment of these
purposes, and to the preserva-
tion of the traditions and ideals which form our rich
heritage from the past.

i fani-te ca

FRANK J. GittiAM, Dean of Students

 

ALTHOUGH the specific office of Dean of Students
at Washington and Lee is a comparatively recent one,
the functions of the office are generally known to the
alumni as part of the duties formerly attached to the
office of the Dean of the University. In general the
work of the Dean of Students deals with student per-
formance, academic, social, and personal.

Of the routine phases of the work such as student
counselling, adjustment of curricular activities, coop-
eration with undergraduate agencies, and disciplinary

{ 11 |

eo ae Ah BM N

cases, little needs to be said. A part of the selection of
new students falls to this office, and in this connection
it is interesting to note the results of psychological tests
taken by members of this year’s freshman class in com-
parison with students of other institutions. The tests
were given under the direction of the American Council
on Education in sixty-one representative American col-
leges. Includ-
ed were such
institutions as
Chicago,
Bowdoin, An-
tioch, and in
Virginia, V. P.
I. and Sweet
Briar. Sixty-
two per cent
of the Wash-
ington and
Lee freshmen
equaled or
exceeded the
average score
made by the
12,757 fresh-
men examin-
ed. This state-
ment is illus-
trative of the University’s determination to preserve
the integrity of academic standards in the face of the
necessity of depending to an increasingly large degree
on tuition fees.

There are three phases of university life dealing
especially with freshmen that have been developed re-
cently in connection with the office of the Dean of
Students: the freshman camp, the freshman adviser
system, and the freshman dormitory plan. Only the
freshman dormitory plan, however, is being tried for
the first time this session.

The plan of reserving both Graham and Lees
dormitories exclusively for freshman use was worked
out during the session of 1932-1933. From sixty-eight
applicants eight upper class students were selected last
spring to serve as student councilors, four to each dor-
mitory, with one designated as head councilor in each
building. These students, who are given adequate com-
pensation, are selected on the basis of their character,
friendliness, and their peculiar fitness to contribute
toward the adjustment and assimilation of the new men.

During the past summer extensive physical im-
provements were carried out in both dormitories, and
their condition this year has probably been more at-
tractive and livable than at any time since the construc-
tion of the buildings.

 

[ 12 |

I

 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  

MA. .6. A...2Z. 22

The new plan has worked with an almost amaz
degree of success. Marked among the results are ¢
greatly improved order and consequent better stu¢
ing conditions, the pronounced feeling of class un
and homogeneity among the freshmen, and the satis!
ing relationship existing between the freshmen and t

councilors.
a — — =

nm i

Fancy Dress Ball, January 26t

ALL THE pomp and pageant of one of the me
colorful coronations in the history of the now deca
ent Russian Empire will be portrayed on the floor ¢
Doremus gymnasium on the night of January 26, whe
the leaders of Fancy Dress usher in the twenty-eigk
annual Fancy Dress Ball by depicting the Coronatic
of Alexander III of Russia.

This scene in Russian history took place in Me
cow during the month of May, 1883, and began
reign of a great Romanoff ruler, when that Imper
Family was at the height of its power and glory int
Empire. The coronation itself was extraordinarily lavi
in its decorations and makes a colorful theme for th
dance. The ball will be called “The Coronation of Ale:
ander IIT.”

Harvard Smith, president of this year’s ball,
represent the figure of Alexander III in the coronati¢
scene. Marie Feodoravna, Alexander’s wife, will
company him to the throne. The other principal figur
in the coronation will be the Grand Duke Nichol:
accompanied by Princess Alice of Hesse. James M
Cully, vice-president of Fancy Dress, will take the
of the Grand Duke Nicholas.

Also taking part in Alexander’s ascent to
throne will be four groups, each representing a diffet
ent class of the Russian people. These consist of th
nobility, the officers of the royal army, the cossack
and the peasants. |

 

 

Request for Calyx

IN THE last issue of the Alumni Magazine, a re
quest was made to look up old copies of the Calyx fo
the use of class-agents. ‘These are the ones that a
still wanted: 1926, 1925, 1923, 1919, 1918, 191
1906, 1905, 1903, 1900, 1899, 1898, 1897, 189€
1895. If you have one of these, won’t you lend it, if no
give it, and write Cy Young, Alumni Headquarters
Lexington ? |

T H E A & WH MN

I =~ &@ & h 2 2 a Ss

The Law School: 1933-34

=)... LAW SCHOOL opened its session with a slight
decrease in atendance from that of last year.
The total enrollment to date is eighty-two, as against
ninety-four at the
same time last
year, which shows
. decrease of
twelve. This de-
crease, which we
hope will be con-
siderably made up
hy new students
entering the law
school at the be-
ginning of the
second semester,
is due to the
smaller entering
class, which con-
tains twenty-five
men as against
forty-eight last
year; and this in
turn is due to
there being fewer
men coming to the
law school who
received their pre-
law preparation
in other colleges.
This number va-
ries from year to
year and in a
group so small as
the law school
student body has
a considerable ef-
fect upon the to-
tal attendance.
The classes

 

academic school of this University; thirteen law stu-
dents received part of their preparation there, while
twenty-one did all of their pre-law work elsewhere.
Thirty-four — stu-
dents entered with
two years of col-
lege preparation,
forty-three have
had three years or
more of college
preparation, while
twenty-five have
college degrees.
Probably no
one today doubts
the advisability of
requiring sound
academic  prepa-
ration before the
study of law is
begun. The As-
sociation of
American Law
Schools, of which
this school is a
member, and the
American Bar
Association,which
places this school
upon its approved
list of law schools,
both require a
minimum of two
years academic
study in an ap-
proved college as
a prerequisite for
entrance to an ap-
proved law school.
—EEE——————EE It is very evident

are made as " ‘ Ser” anes ra
lade up as CTT MORELAND. Ded that this school is

lollows: first-year
Class, twenty-five students; second-year class, thirty-
four students: third-year class, twenty-three students.
We note with satisfaction that more than eighty
per cent of the first-year students have received pre-law
college preparation in excess of the minimum require-
ment of two years. Taking the entire law student body,
forty-eight were prepared for the law school in the

doing its full
share in maintaining this standard, and as all friends of
the schoo] are aware, we admit no special students and
have not admitted such for ten years past.

These standards have not been attained and kept
without a serious sacrifice on the part of the University
in the matter of financial returns and in loss of stu-
dent attendance, but it has without hesitation adopted

[ 13 ]

oe ae Bw oe ON

this course because it is determined to be classified with
the best in its field.

We further find that twenty-four states are rep-
resented by our law students, including one or more
representatives from every Southern state; this being
two more states than were represented by the student
body attendance last year. Sixty-five of our students are
from Southern states and seventeen from other parts
of the country.

When our students arrived in September they
found that during the summer the building had been
renovated. The floors in the lower hall had been scraped
and the floors and stairways varnished. Group pic-
tures of former classes have been framed and hung in
the hall and on the walls adjacent to the stairways.
This adds greatly to the attractiveness of the building
and the pictures are a source of pleasure to returning
alumni. We regret that we do not have pictures of all
of the graduating classes. We have the classes for the
years 1906 to 1917 inclusive, the class of 1924, and the
classes from 1930 to 1933 inclusive. We should be
very glad to receive pictures we do not have of gradu-
ating classes, and call this to the attention of alumni.

In addition to these groups, we have secured and
hung in the hall pictures of some of our distiguished
alumni—practitioners and judges. ‘These include Mr.
John W. Davis, Mr. Newton D. Baker, and Mr. W.
R. Perkins. Of course we have a picture of the beloved
“Daddy” Burks; also the members of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of this state who are graduates of this

 

law school, namely: the Honorable Henry W. Holt, of
the class of 1888; the Honorable Lewis S. Epes, of the
class of 1908; and the Honorable Herbert B. Gregory,
of the class of 1911. We hope to add very considerably
to this group of pictures of our distinguished alumni,
and we are making a particular effort to secure por-
traits of John Randolph Tucker and of his son, Henry

[| 14 |

I

MA G<A Zi ii

St. George Tucker, both former deans of this Jay
school.

The additions to the law library are made up foul
the most part of current additions to the Reports, with
some few Codes and Statutes. It is perhaps only proper
that we should acknowledge here the unusual courtesy
on the part of the Michie Company of Charlottesyilje

    

in donating to the library its new Digest of Virginia ~
and West Virginia Reports. While we have an excellent
working library which is adequate for the general work
of the law school, it is deficient in that we lack the”
Codes and Statutes of the various states. It has oc-~
curred to us that alumni might consider donating to-
the law library the Code and Statutes subsequent to the
Code of his or their particular state. The school would
be indeed grateful for such gifts.

In closing it may be of interest to call attention to ~
the fact that there has been no change in the law faculty
for the past seven years. The faculty and students as ~
a whole constitute a congenial group.

 

Death of Mrs. Pettigrew

Mrs. Prrricrew died in a Staunton Hospital,
September 12th.

Until her health failed some years ago, Mrs. Petti-
grew was one of the best known of Lexington resi-
dents. ‘The toy and candy store on Washington street —
over which she presided was the gathering place of —
children for many years. Students and cadets bought ~
her candy and were entertained with her comments
She retained always the
dress and manner of her own generation.

on present day young people.

ae a re WN

I

Fes Wink Bc sien

Sports Move Indoors

By WiutAmM S. BARKER

LAYING good football most of the way in their

first year under the direction of an all-alumni
coaching staff headed by Warren E. “Tex” Tilson, ’26,
assisted by Harry K. “Cy” Young, °17, and showing
surprising mid-season strength the Generals closed with
4 record of four victories, four defeats, and two ties.
Highlights of the season were the startling 7-0 upset of
Kentucky and the heartbreaking 6-0 loss to Prince-
ton, which but for an official’s decision might have
resulted in victory for Washington and Lee. ‘The
third win in as many years over Virginia, and victories
over William and Mary and Roanoke and a tie with
V. P. Ll. brought the state championship back to the
Wilson field stronghold after a year’s absence. Other
recognition came to Washington and Lee in the al-
most unanimous choice of Captain Amos Bolen for the
all-state team and his being named on the first all-
Southern conference eleven.

With the close of the football season and the con-
sequent addition of many men to winter sports teams
practice for the indoor season got under way in earnest.
With the exception of basketball all winter teams had
been conditioning since October. With the release of
Cy Young and many players from football duties the
court squad began daily practice soon after Thanks-
giving. .
All teams boast a number of veterans, but early
indications are that sophomores will win places in all
winter sports line-ups of the Generals this year. In
opening the winter sports season before the Christmas
holidays Coach A. E. Mathis, coach of the Southern
conference title-holding wrestlers, presented two almost
completely different teams to overwhelm both Johns
Hopkins and the Roanoke Y. M. C. A. Only one veter-
an appeared for Washington and Lee in the Johns
Hopkins affair and the line-up against the “Y” con-
tained two sophomores. ‘The only man who wrestled
in both of these meets was Hugo Bonino, heavyweight,
also a sophomore.

Coach Mathis has six veterans including two con-
ference individual title-holders, Co-captain Pritchard,
165 pounds, and Fred Sarkis, 126 pounds. Co-captain
Smith was runner-up in the 155-pound division at the
conference tournament last March. Duplications in the
fighting weights of some of his best men and the lack
of a natural 175-pounder are the problems which Coach
Mathis has to face in defending the conference title.

The basketball team boasts six monogram men
led by Captain Joe Sawyers, forward. Only Sawyers,

Charlie Smith, center and forward, and Bob Fields,
guard, are left from the regular players of last year,
but half a dozen promising sophomores and a like num-
ber of capable reserves from the 1933 season put a
pretty good outlook on court prospects. A fifteen-game
schedule opening with St. Johns of Annapolis in Lex-
ington, January 8, has been arranged.

While Coach Tilson was conducting the gridders
through a season of one tough opponent after another,
Captain Eddie Mincher of the boxing team was getting
the leather pushers into shape so that both the fresh-
man and varsity candidates would be ready to show
plenty of stuff to the coach when he took up the reins
after the Christmas holidays. Working with him have
been George Short, a veteran from last year, and two
promising members of last year’s freshman team, Harry
Robertson and Ed Jean. Since the close of the football
season another veteran, Lewis Martin, has been put-
ting in time on his footwork and punches.

A sizeable crew of veterans are splashing about
in the Doremus gymnasium pool each afternoon as they
prepare for the defense of the state swimming title.
Headed by Captain Henry Cohen, the team strength
will be bolstered by several sophomores and two upper
classmen who did not compete last season.

Early indications are that most freshman winter
teams will have every bit as good, if not better records
than the first year football team which lost only its
opening game and then went on to beat Virginia, Wil-
liam and Mary, and Maryland, and tie V. P. I. Coach
Twombly is jubilantly enthusiastic about his freshman
basketball players and several of his yearling swim-
mers, while Ed Mincher is high in his praise of two or
three first-year boxing candidates. Having turned out
undefeated freshman teams for the last five years,
Coach Mathis looks upon this year’s group of fresh-
man wrestlers as the best in the history of the sport at
Washington and Lee.

VARSITY Sports CALENDAR

Jan. 8—Basketball—St. Johns—Lexington.

 

 

Jan 11.—Basketball—Virginia—Lynchburg.

Jan. 12—Wrestling—Davidson—Lexington.

Jan. 13—Basketball—N. C. U.—Lexington.

Jan. 13—Swimming—W. and M.—Williamsburg.
Jan. 20—Boxing—Roanoke—Lexington.

Jan, 29—Basketball—N. C. State—Raleigh.

Jan. 30—Basketball—Duke—Durham.

(Continued on page 18)

[ 15 ]

be. E a. 2 A oe

©. D. K. Honors Alumni

On DecemBer 6, 1933, Omicron Delta Kappa
celebrated the nineteenth year of its growth, as
the most outstanding student honorary society on
the Washington and Lee campus, by tapping into
membership five outstanding alumni. It had previously
been the custom to invite one alumnus a year; Marlen
Pew named in 1932, John W. Davis in 1929, Carter
Glass, Jr., in 1931, and other outstanding alumni have
been selected. But the inflexible rule was broken to
create a fitting symbol, by which to honor alumni for
their untiring service to the University.

Previous to the induction, at the recent Student
Assembly, the president of the “Circle” gave a brief
resume of the organization, and its history. A tribute
was paid to the founders, for the loyal continued serv-
ice rendered by them.

Those selected were actively present to receive
the invitation.

For his service to the University, Walter Andrew
McDonald, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio, was tapped. As
president of the Washington and Lee Alumni Associa-
ation he has contributed his energy as a loyal alumnus.
He will be remembered by his classmates as manager
of the baseball team of 1909-10, and a member of Sig-
ma Chi, Phi Delta Phi, the Cotillion Club and others.

Colonel LeRoy Hodges, Sr., was named for his
attainments and his loyalty to the University. He resides
in Richmond, and may be remembered as of the class
of 1910, being coach of the track team, and a brother
in Pi Kappa Alpha and the S. B. C. At present he is
managing director of the Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce.

To recognize the characteristic attainments and
ideals of Judge Herbert Gregory, 1910, of Roanoke,
Virginia, another alumnus was included. As a member
of the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals he has con-
tributed a service to mankind, and has honored his
University. He belongs to Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta
Phi.

Littleton James Boxley, 1909, also of Roanoke
was named. As a member of the Washington and Lee
University Athletic Association he has contributed to
the upbuilding of the school. He is the vice-president
of the W. W. Boxley Contracting company. In college
he was a member of the Senior Law Class of 1909,
while his fraternal affiliation included Pi Kappa Alpha.

The second of a famous Virginia family was se-
lected in Powell Glass, 1907, of Lynchburg. He is pub-
lisher of the Lynchburg News and Daily Advance, as
‘well as a hearty advocate of the Lee School of Jour-

[ 16 |

I

 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  

MiA G A Z ita

nalism. He started his journalistic experience as editor
in-chief of The Ring-tum Phi and held membershiy
in Kappa Sigma. Carter Glass, Jr., was initiated int
the “Circle” in 1931. ;

The initiation banquet was held in the Robert E
Lee dining hall, with Dr. Francis P. Gaines presiding
as toastmaster. While introducing the speakers }
stressed progress and service. The epitome of Colonel
Hodges’ talk emphasized planning, both for the up-
building of the University and in private life. Mere-
dith Graham of the class of 1935 gave a short address
for the new student members. q

The other new members included Raymon T,
Johnson of the Law School faculty of the University,

From the student body those tapped were: LeRoy
Hodges, Jr., son of Colonel Hodges, and a member of
the varsity track and wrestling teams, as well as presi-
dent of the Senior Commerce Class, of Virginia; Sam
Mattox also of Virginia and captain-elect of the foot-
ball team; Charles A. Pritchard of West Virginia,
president of Finals and co-captain of the wrestling
team; John Dean of Mississippi, manager of the foot-
ball team; Tom Boland of West Virginia, a member
of the varsity football team; Everett Tucker of Ar
kansas, manager of baseball and Executive committee;
Meredith Graham of Georgia, member of the Executive
committee; Joe Walker of South Carolina, on the Ex-
ecutive committee; Frank Young of New York, editor
of The Ring-tuwm Phi; John Hanley of Washington,
D. C., a member of the football and track teams; and
Edward Mincher of New Jersey, secretary-treasurer
of the student body. The eleven men represented eight
states and the District of Columbia, showing the rep-
resentative character of the student body leadership.

4

sy.
wae

To the Members of the Washington and Lee
Ambulance Section SSU534:

Cy Young has planned as a feature for the 1934
finals a reunion of our outfit. I feel sure that this re-
union will be enjoyed by all of us and [ am availing”
myself of the opportunity to send this preliminary
notice to you all. -

Some of you have returned to Lexington fre-
quently and others have not been back since the war.
Let’s all mark the date on our calendars now and get
together for a real old-time reunion next June. I want
to be able to line up all living members of the outfit”
and call the roll, but will promise not to call the roll
at 5 o'clock in the morning nor have it followed by set-
ting up exercises. 7

Sincerely,

Forest FLETCHER.

- HSE

ao b. Mm WF

5 @4G 2 2. 3. oe

Harry St. George Tucker Carmichael, 1899

ARRY St. GEORGE TUCKER CARMICHAEL was
born in Staunton, Virginia, of lines indicated
by the distinguished name he bears. Upon

leaving college he
was employed on an
Engineering Corps
of the B. & O. Rail-
road at Grafton, W.
Va. The Corps had
charge of all main-
tenance work from
Grafton to Beling-
ton, Parkersburg,
and Wheeling; from
Clarksburg to Cam-
den-on-Gauley.

Mr. Carmichael
then spent a year on
the construction of
the Mt. Airy Tun-
nel in Maryland and
one year on the lo-
cation of the C. C.
& O. Railroad across
the mountains of
Tennessee and North
Carolina. He was
next employed as
Engineer for the C.
& ©. Railroad and
had charge of the
location of a branch
line extending from
lester to the Guy-
andotte River. Later
he became Resident
Ingineer on con-
struction. For the
next three years he
served as Resident
ingineer with the
Western Maryland

Railroad on heavy construction between Hagerstown
and Cumberland, Maryland. He also spent a year with
the W. F. & G. Railroad, as Chief Engineer on loca-
tion and construction.

Mr. Carmichael decided to get into the contract-
ing end of the game. From 1919 to 1920, he was em-
ployed as Engineer and General Manager on impor- has been increased

A Biographical Sketch by the Editor

 

Courtesy, Pit and Quarry
Harry St. George Tucker Carmichael, 1899

tant railroad and highway contracts with the Elmore
and Hamilton Company of New York, the John B.
Carter Company of Chicago, and the Mason and Hang-

er Company of New
York. He did work
in Maryland, Penn-
sylvania, Indiana,
West Virginia, Vir-
ginia, Ohio, Tennes-
see, North Carolina,
and other states. In
some of these proj-
ects he had a finan-
cial interest and of-
ten was partner.

Perhaps the
most — spectacular
engineering work
ever done by Mr.
Carmichael was _ his
work on the con-
struction of the U.
S. Powder Plant at
Old Hickory, Ten-
nessee. He had
charge of all rail-
road and grading
plans and establish-
ed what was then
termed the world’s
record in building
eight miles of rail-
road of a_ heavy
character.

In 1920, Mr.
Carmichael became
connected with the
Kentucky Rock As-
phalt Company, one
of the largest pro-
ducers of natural
rock asphalt in the

United States. This is the largest concern of its kind
in the world, and during normal times the company
employs 500 men. Since Jan. 1, 1921, Mr. Carmichael

has been General Manager in charge of the production

[ 17 |

department. Under his direction, the company’s an-
nual productive capacity at its Kyrock, Kentucky, plant
from about 40,000 tons to over

om: 8 A 0 8M os

300,000 tons. The organization controls 45,000 acres in
Edmonson and other counties, and their product is laid
in thirty-three states and ten foreign countries.

The following excerpt from the Manufacturers
Record illustrates the interest Mr. Carmichael has taken
in his employes:

“In Edmonson county, Kentucky, far back
from any railroad facilities, dependent on water
transportation for shipment of its product and
for all of its supplies, is an enterprise that deserves
to rank as one of the country’s great illustrations
of a business which has learned the art of how to
handle labor, with the result that it has created a
spirit of friendship and cooperation and has stimu-
lated its employes to a high degree of efficiency
and loyalty to the work they are doing.

“It was in the mountains of Kentucky that
what are known as Moonlight Schools were first
established with such wonderful success in educat-
ing adults as well as younger people. In Kyrock,
where the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company has
its operations, school facilities have been provided
by the cooperative work of the company and the
county, and employers insist that their employes
send their children to school until they are 18
years of age. They are also encouraging adult edu-
cation. In the work they are doing they have in-
spired a desire on the part of the older people
for education of the younger generation. Here is a
real human interest story which carries lessons for
many other employers.”

Mr. Carmichael is taking a leading part in these
stirring times we live in. He is chairman of the Edmon-
son County Civil Works Commission. Early in the
organization of the National Recovery Administration,
Mr. Carmichael was appointed a member of the Presi-
dent’s Advisory Board, charged with the responsibility
of passing on all applications for funds to be expended
in Kentucky in connection with the administration’s
program to bring about complete recovery by giving
work to the unemployed. The selection of Mr. Car-
michael was given state-wide approval.

It was his suggestion that the school children of
Edmonson County raise a fund to supplement the
state appropriation to the Kentucky Crippled Children’s
Commission. The teachers of the county pledged for
their school children ten cents per capita, and Edmon-
son County by this plan assumed state leadership in
the spread of this plan througout the 120 counties of
the state. The state goal is $50,000, to be added to state
funds. Under Mr. Carmichael’s chairmanship of the
Kentucky Crippled Children’s Commission, and di-
rectorship of the Crippled Children’s Society, a move-
ment was started and an organization made that re-
sulted in pressure on the Legislature to appropriate
$150,000 a year for this work,

I

M AGA Zi1 Nee

a

Mr. Carmichael modestly does not make public
much that he has done, nothing of who his persona] —
philanthropy encompasses and is silent about those
ornamental rewards that are heaped upon a man who —
lives richly the life of the idealist and humanitarian, —
For example, the practical and idealistic parts of his
character were several years ago almost sensationally
combined when the whole county watched daily the —
progress of his engineering plan for the release of —
Floyd Collins, trapped in Sand Cave. 7

In his professional branch he has had recognition —
by membership in the Kentucky Academy of Science, —
the American Association for the Advancement of —
Science, and by being made a Fellow in the Royal —
Society for the Advancement of the Arts and Sciences, —

He says, with characteristic feeling and loyalty to—
the great regard and affection that has always been —
felt for him by every one connected with Washington
and Lee and its administrations, that among his duties —
and his honors that he most enjoys and appreciates
is the chairmanship of the Alumni Committee on Uni-—
versity Affairs.

In his hands, whatever influence or obligation, this —
committee will bring to bear in representing the alumni —
to the institution and the present administration, will —
be handled with serenity, with sound judgment, with —
tact and effectiveness that are characteristic of a man —
greatly loved and highly prized.

Pie

Sports Move Indoors

(Continued from page 15)

Feb. 1—Basketball—V. P. I.—Lexington.
Feb. 2—Wrestling—N. C. U.—Chapel Hill.
Feb. 3—Wrestling—N. C. State—Raleigh.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

3—Boxing—N. C. State—Raleigh.
3—Basketball—West Virginia—Charleston.
5—Basketball—Duke—Lynchburg.
9—Basketball—W. and M.—Lexington.

Feb. 10—Boxing—V. P. I.—Lexington.

Feb, 12—Basketball—V. P. I.—Blacksburg.

Feb. 15—Basketball—N. C. State—Lexington.
Feb. 17—Basketball—Richmond U.—Lexington.
Feb. 17—Swimming—N. C. State—Lexington.
Feb. 17—Boxing—Maryland—College Park.
Feb. 17—Wrestling—Navy—Annapolis.

Feb. 20—Basketball—V irginia—Charlottesville.
Feb. 21—Swimming—Virginia—Charlottesville.

Keb. 23—Basketball—Maryland—College Park.

 

Feb. 24—Basketball—George Washington—D. C.
Feb. 24—Wrestling—V. P. I.—Lexington.

Feb. 27—Basketball—Virginia—Lexington.

Feb. 28—Swimming—Duke—Durham.

Mar. 3—Boxing—Navy—Annapolis.

[ 18 ]

 

oe ae: oe Se

I

Ni IM lla ey

Family Relationships at W. and L.

Tt THE O. D. K. student assembly on December 6,

blanks were distributed upon which the students

were asked to report family relationships among
Washington and Lee alumni.

Out of 823 students there are 152 young men here
this year who have relatives who are Washington and
Lee alumni.

There are ninety-nine who are either sons of
alumni or brothers. Of these forty-five are sons of
former Washington and Lee men and fifty-four have
brothers who went to college here.

There are fifteen young men whose grandfathers
are alumni and most of these are sons of alumni, com-
pleting the third generation. Three have great-grand-
fathers and three great-great-grandfathers, carrying
family tradition into the fifth generation.

Other relationships include thirty-eight nephews
of alumni, great nephews, great-great nephews, broth-
ers-in-law and cousins innumerable.

The two Drake boys, Henry and Magruder of
Port Gibson, Miss., are great-great-grandsons, with a
list of all possible male relationships, that rank them
and their family as the outstanding “Washington and
Lee family.”

Another young man, J. I. Macey of Paris, Ky.,
is the grandson of an alumnus and the step-grandson,
bearing a relationship, provided by his grandmother’s
choice of two men of the same tradition, that is unique.

T.. Chalmers Vinson and John Walker Vinson, Jr.,
of Lexington, Va., are twin sons of a missionary killed
by Chinese bandits. Their great-grandfather was Dr.
George Junkin, president of Washington College 1848-
1861.

Robert Franklin Cooper, Jr., of Holly Springs,
Miss., is the great-great-grandson of Gen. Andrew
Moore, trustee of Washington College 1782-1821.

Charles McNulty of Roanoke, Va., is the grand-
son of William A. Anderson, trustee of the University
and Rector of the Board for many years.

Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr., of Staunton, Va., son
of the late Rudolph Bumgardner, is descended through
the Scott family from Archibald Scott, trustee of Lib-
erty Hall Academy, 1784-1799.

John Meredith Graham III, of Rome, Ga., carries
the same name through three generations of alumni.

Sam C. Mattox, captain of the 1934 football team,
of Leesville, Va., is the fifth and alas the last, of the
famous Mattox brothers.

Alfred Preston Moore of Blacksburg, Va., is the

great-great-grandson of Judge Brockenborough, found-
er of the Law School.

Alfred Milton Morrison of Rockbridge Co., lists
a very long and consistent line of Morrison relatives
of Rockbridge County who have supported the tradition
of this place.

Thomas B. Ripy of Lawrenceburg, Ky., lists six
uncles, his own father the seventh in that generation.

A. A. Sproul III, of Middlebrook, Va., of the
third generation, has four uncles who are alumni.

A. Erskine Sproul, Jr., of Staunton, Va., likewise
with the addition of two brothers.

The above data is a gleaning of the reports turned
in by the students, in no way complete, nor analytical
nor the sum of research. No particular inquiries have
yet been made nor has a study been started. This pic-
ture of family relationships is one lying upon the sur-
face and is reported as a preliminary upon which closer
investigation will be made. Even so it is significant and
full of the sources of pride and that continuity that ex-
ists so deeply and lives so vigorously in this institution.

Samuel [,. Alexander, 1935, Leesburg, Va., son of
Judge J. R. H. Alexander, 1905; William H. Alexand-
er, 1935, Washington, D. C., son of Dan W. Alexander,
1903; Robert W. Arnold, Jr., 1937, Waverly, Va., son
of Robert W. Arnold, 1908; James V. Beale, 1936,
Franklin, Va., Ernest L. Beale, 1908; George Boyd,
Jr., 1936, Hagerstown, Md., son of George Boyd, 1911;
John C. Bierer, 1936, Waban, Mass., son of John M.
Bierer, 1908; Rudolph Bumgardner, Jr., 1935, Staun-
ton, Va., son of *Rudolph Bumgardner, 1892; Guy H.
Branaman, Jr., 1935, Waynesboro, Va., son of Guy
H. Branaman, 1912; Deverton Carpenter, 1937, Clif-
ton Forge, Va., son of J. C. Carpenter, 1908; G. W.
Cleek, 1937, Warm Springs, Va., son of G. W.
Cleek, 1909.

R. F. Cooper, Jr., 1935, Holly Springs, Miss., son
of R. F. Cooper, 1904; Duncan Corbett, 1936, Bay
City, Texas, son of John M. Corbett, 1901; John T.
Cover, 1936, Staunton, Va., son of Russell Cover, 1908;
Henry H. Darnall, 1935, Huntington, W. Va., son of
Harry Darnall, 1907; Charles H. Davidson, Jr., 1934,
Lexington, Va., son of *Charles H. Davidson, 1892;
Henry Drake, 1936, and Winbourne Magruder Drake,
1936, Port Gibson, Miss., sons of H. M. W. Drake,
1897 ; Joseph T. Drake, 1936, Port Gibson, Miss., son
of Joseph T. Drake, 1890; Loyal P. Gassman, 1935,
Freeport, Ill., son of Ike Gassman, 1907.

(Continued on page 20)

[ 19 ]

: ee, a ao 2 bm Os

I

MAGaAZi1i =

 

The Editor Has This to Say:

MAY BE asking undue and unjustifiable atten-
tion to the Alumni Magazine but it has occurred
to me that I have a very practical idea to sug-

gest to the alumni.

In the November issue of the Magazine, Dr. Gaines
wrote plainly on: What Can the Alumnus Do?

He stated, with simple and suggestive definitions,
six categories of opportunity. 1. Support of the Alumni
Movement, now about to open its second year of or-
ganized self-maintenance and aid to the University. 2.
Acute and deliberate scouting of the right material for
our freshman class next year. 3. Help in placing grad-
uates in profitable and congenial jobs upon their leaving
here. 4. Remembrance of the University in diversified
ways, not alone in gifts. 5. Remembrance in special
gifts, in trusts and bequests. 6. The influence many may
exert in suggesting or directing the generosity of others.

Dr. Gaines spoke openly what is in his mind but
not as directly as [ am permitted to do and I speak
directly to those who keep in touch with us here as a
channel for further and more pointed action.

In this part of Dr. Gaines’ mind, where there lie,
as yet unfulfilled, and as yet, in some cases, in vague
and unformed hopes only, some of the things he covets
for the University, there cannot be the practical sort-
ing and pairing of both the ends he hopes for and the
means for their achievement.

It would not be within his policy to pair ends and
means and say pointedly who, exactly, should take
upon himself the responsibilty to set those forces in
motion that might eventually achieve his ends.

It is, however, wholly within the scope of any
single alumnus to act as a key in unlocking the treasured
and rich sentiment that becomes first animated, then
actively at work, for the benefit of the institution. To
feel, then to see, what it is Dr. Gaines has in mind,
what is part of his consummate hope, then a search for
just that man among your friends or class-mates, who
might more than another, be able to encompass one or
more of these desires, and a pointing of that out to him
in just the right time and circumstance, would be one
of those creative acts for the benefit of the University
that Dr. Gaines is preparing the way for. Those who
suggest, inspire, and put others in the way of accom-
plishment, are the primary creative forces in themselves.

Dr. Gaines could not link with this program he has
outlined vaguely, anything definite or even suggestive,
as reward. But there is a Thomas Nelson Page Medal
for the recognition of such creative contributions and

there is no one to say that I may not mention it, nor
keep me from confessing that I am keenly aware it ©
must go to somebody BIG this year for something BIG —
he has done and you can be thinking who that person —
ought to be and Dr. Gaines has made it plain what is
needed.

 

Family Relationships at W. and L.

(Continued from page 19)

Meredith Graham, 1935, Rome Ga., son of John —
M. Graham, 1890; Duncan G. Groner, 1935, Washing-
ton, D. C., son of Judge D. L. Groner, 1892; Sam H,
Halley, Jr., 1936, Lexington, Ky., son of *Sam H, —
Halley, 1893; Charles K. Hanke, 1937, Royal Oak,
Mich., son of Charles R. Hanke, 1910; B. M. Higgin- —
botham, Jr., 1937, Rupert, W. Va., son of B. M. Hig- ©
ginbotham, 1910; James Dexter Hobbie III, 1937,
Roanoke, Va., son of J. Dexter Hobbie, 1904; LeRoy
Hodges, Jr., 1934, Richmond, Va., son of LeRoy
Hodges, 1910; Robert FE. Holland, Jr., Lexington,
Va., son of Robert E. Holland, 1914; Francis B. Key,
1935, Buena Vista, Va., son of J. Frank Key, 1912.

Lewis A. McMurran, 1936, Newport News, Va., —
son of *Lewis A. McMurran, 1907; Charles S. Mec- —
Nulty, Jr., 1937, Roanoke, Va., son of Charles S. Me-
Nulty, 1902; David S. MacDonald, Jr., 1935, Durant, —
Okla., son of David S$. MacDonald, 1907; Wm. Hay-
wood Moreland, Jr., 1934, Lexington, Va., son of Wm.
Haywood Moreland, 1906; Alfred Milton Morrison,
1937, Lexington, Va., son of Kenneth G. Morrison,
1902; Paul W. Morrison, 1936, Hazard, Ky., son of
James L. Morrison, 1899; Minor Pipes, 1937, Houma,
La., son of David W. Pipes, 1906; Thomas B. Ripy,
1937, Lawrenceburg, Ky., son of Ernest W. Ripy,
1896; Edgar B. Ruff, 1937, Elkhorn, W. Va., son of
Richard A. Ruff, 1903.

John Graham Sale, Jr., 1936, Welch, W. Va., son
of J. Graham Sale, 1902; Alexander Erskine Sproul,
1937, Staunton, Va., son of *Hugh B. Sproul, 1892;
Archibald A. Sproul, 1937, Middlebrook, Va., son of
W. W. Sproul, 1892; Souther F. Tompkins, 1937,
Lexington, Va., son of Dr. E. P. Tompkins, 1888;
Everett Tucker, Jr., 1934, Tucker, Ark., son of Everett
Tucker, 1903; W. W. Wiglesworth, Jr., 1936, Cyn-
thiana, Ky., son of W. G. Wiglesworth, 1892; Fillmore
G. Wilson, 1937, Greensboro, N. C., son of Laurence
W. Wilson, 1910; Laurence W. Wilson, Jr., 1937,
Greeneboro, N. C., son of Laurence W. Wilson, 1910.

[ 20 |

 

~ 2. 2 me UN

I

a, a, ee... ee ee, ee

The Second Annual Round of Letters

By Wacvrer A. McDonavp, 1910, President Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Spe puRPOSE of the Alumni Campaign of the

ment has been reported and it is not modest of me to
be stating it again and still bragging about it unless I
do so as another opportunity to thank those who took
part in it. I am still conscious of that and can never
express my appreciation often enough or fully enough.
| gave a full report at the Alumni meeting at Finals
and again in the summer issue of the Alumni Maga-

past year has been accomplished. Its accomplish-

sine.

In this one respect and in this one measure, the
campaign was a disappointment. The five hundred or so
who contributed the small individual amounts asked
for did not create by their gifts or their participation,
that widening impulse and influence that it was expected
would serve as a necessary, secondary effect of the
campaign. What they did is immeasurably appreciated
but its effect upon others who were expected to see a
good result and join it, has been disappointing.

The campaign has had this unalterable benefit: it
has awakened a few and created a method and a tech-
nique by which those who have participated may never
again escape us and it has forced upon me, as presi-
dent and my fellow members of the board and upon the
Alumni Secretary, an obligation not to let what has
been started die and to increase its growth from year
to year until there is a volume of interest in the Uni-
versity that will be expressed year after year, in small
but uninterrupted gifts to make a fund that the Uni-
versity is safe in regularly counting upon not only to
remove the burden of the Association from its budget
but in ways of service and benefit that will make the

cumulative gifts of thousands of alumni equal in reve-
nue to a large endowment.

It is this objective, still remote but perfectly prac-
tical, that the Alumni Campaign of this year will have
and I believe we will show better results this year than
we did last and I believe next year will be still better
and so on for that number of years, whatever it is,
that will be necessary, to realize among the majority
of the alumni, instead of among the very few, an ideal
organization of both contact and generosity.

In what we have already accomplished and in what
we still have to do, there are countless benefits to the
University to be recognized quite apart from the small
gifts of money and quite above it. There are boys in
college this year who might not have come except for
that indefinable re-awakened contact that the campaign
brought about. There have been visits paid to the cam-
pus and Lexington directly traceable to this same ori-
gin. There are friends who have found each other again
after many years, there are men who have transacted
business with each other. There the students who have
been introduced as the sons of warm friends of thirty
years ago. There are not only these few benefits that
have been obvious to recognize but many more that will
never be traced or known.

But the opportunity is greater than any realiza-
tion has yet brought about and when the campaign
again starts on the first of February and the class-
agents write again their friendly letters, | hope that
there will have been prepared a response to this great
effort, that will be more wide-spread, more important
and more influential than we had this year.

Ss or as

Class-Agents’ Letters

1922

Rosert M. (“Cuppy”) Berar, Dartmouth Col-
lege, Hanover, N. H.—After the eloquent appeal for
news in the last issue, the writer sat back with a glow
in anticipation of the many interesting tidbits which the
mail would shortly bring. But such was not the case
which leaves two possible inferences: that the class is
faring well since “no news is good news’, or that this
class has been so impoverished that it lacks the price

of a postage stamp. Or it may be that very few of us

see the Alumni Magazine, which means that there is
an especial need for those who do, to dispatch all the
class gossip they know.

The above reflections were interrupted by the ar-
rival of a fine chatty letter from Bob Howerton at
Charlotte. And what a curriculum he has had in the
“school of hard knocks” that President Lefty Louie
used to talk about! A short highway engineering job
between Lexington and Natural Bridge (now you know
who to blame for the trouble that stretch gives you when

[ 21 |

ae A i .. 2 oN

I

on See Te ee es ee

 

rushing back to the Alma Mater); a year of teaching
at Staunton Military; a first attempt to cash-in on
his college chemistry by working as a dye-hand in a
Carolina cotton mill, twelve hours a day for twelve per
week ; a great yearning to return to the primrose life
of the pedagogue which was averted by four years’
service as dyestuff demonstrator for National Aniline
and Chemical Co.; an interlude as superintendent of
the dye-house of the Durham Hosiery Mills; a research
“assignment with the Celanese Corporation to attempt
to evolve a certain new process in the manufacure of
ladies’ hosiery from their yarn.” And now Bob has the
Southern territory for Smith Drum and Co. of Philly,
handling the sale of textile dye and finishing equipment.

Despite all this, Bob is an accessory in the raising
of a family of three and got back to the Homecoming
game this fall. Hop Arbogast at the Asheville School
for Boys is the last member of the class that he has
encountered in his travels. He wants to know where
some of you live so he can look you up. Look out or
you may find yourself in the dye industry.

Charley Handley is still up to his old tricks. Now
on the staff of the Virginia Game and Conservation
Commission at Richmond, he slips away from his work
to tell his wild animal stories to various Clubs.

Here’s hoping the new year will be a better one for
the members of 1922.

1915

Ki Wititams, Du Pont Rayon, Waynesboro,
Va.—You know, it doesn’t seem possible that 18 years
have elapsed since the great Class of 1915 was gradu-
ated; nor does it seem possible that it has been 22
years since the famous 225 freshmen of that class came
backing into Lexington on the C. & O. But, alas, it is
all too true.

I wonder how many times during these years each
member of 1915 has reflected upon the joyous four
years from 1911 to 1915, and wished that he could re-
capture some special thrill of the “Good Old Days”—
when all the newspapers wrote about Washington and
Lee’s “‘point-a-minute” football team. When the hall
above McCrum’s resounded with peculiar sounds of
rattling ivory and finger snapping. When the “Auto-
matic Rule” really started working in a serious way.
When Hallowe'en Night was “Freshman Night” (I
know you all remember Hallowe’en of 1911!—That
was Lexington’s last big destructive night.) When we
used to study a little and think how terribly hard we
were working. And at last, when we finally (some of
us) walked up the aisle in the Chapel in a somewhat
dazed manner and Doak Smithson handed out the old
sheepskin, and we wondered how we ever made it—
brilliant scholars excepted!

——

Well it has been my great privilege to recapture ©
a few of those thrills. In 1929 business made it nec-_
essary for me to become located in Waynesboro, Va.—
just forty miles from Lexington. This nearness of resi-
dence made it very easy for me to renew old friendships
in Lexington and at the University. ‘Then, in the spring
of 1933, came the request from Walter McDonald
asking me to take the job as class-agent. You have
perhaps noticed, from letters in recent issues of the
Alumni Magazine, that most class-agents seem to _
think they were selected as a last resort. Well, I’ll ad-
mit I had that feeling also, but by that time I was so
glad to become intimately associated with the Univer-
sity again that I didn’t even mind if I was a last re- ©
sort!

In doing this work as class-agent, by renewing
friendships with classmates on the one hand, and serv-
ing Washington and Lee on the other, I have recap-
tured a great deal that is always dear to the heart of a
Washington and Lee man. If every member of this
Class will just write the first letter that breaks the ice
and renews contact, I believe they will also gain a lot
of pleasure and serve their Alma Mater in no small
way.

Most of you fellows of 1915 heard from me last —
spring, when the Alumni drive was on, and I want to —
take this opportunity to thank all of you who contrib-
uted, not only with money but also with so many friend-—
ly letters telling us news of yourselves and of your
everlasting loyalty and interest in Washington and Lee. |
To those of you from whom I have not heard I say that
you are missed, and ask that you take an early oppor-
tunity to let the Alumni body and Class of 1915 count
you an active member. |

Please all remember, it is you we want to come
back to Lexington and Washington and Lee—if not in
person, at least by communication.

1913
Ben F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg., Cleveland, |
Ohio—I am sure everyone will be interested in Pete
Gibson’s account of the Class Reunion which he has
kindly sent to me. You all know that Pete was the-
moving spirit in getting the boys back. Those of us who ~
failed to return can only regret the pleasure we have —
missed. IT am sure Pete will have more success for the
reunion on the 25th anniversary of our graduation. —
When you have read this account, which follows, make —
a New Year’s resolution that you will not miss the next
reunion.
You asked me to tell you something of our Class —
reunion which was held on June 5, 1933, at Lexington, —
Virginia.

[ 22 |

- oe A cL AL MN

We all had a splendid time. It is a great inspira-
tion to meet men that you have not seen for twenty
years. It was a great benefit and uplift to everyone of
us and we look forward to another reunion of our
Class, which will be held in 1938.

There was a touch of sadness to the occasion be-
cause of the realization that quite a number of our
crowd had passed away. We all felt proud of the fact
that those who have been called into the great beyond
had left us without any stigma of disgrace.

| suppose you saw our picture in the Alumni Maga-
sine. | am afraid that a good many of my classmates
didn’t know me as I stood by “Miss Annie Joe” and I
was nearly as white headed as she. I don’t mind getting
white headed so much as I do losing what little hair I
have left.

It was a real treat to see Tom Ranson, Tom Kirk-
patrick, W. L. Tucker (known to us as “’Tuck’’), Carter
Glass, William H. Womeldorf, Fred McWane, Ben
Haden (Judge), P. C. Buford, B. R. Lemon, Carroll
Wiltshire, E. S. Delaplaine and Dick Smith.

Others had planned to attend but were unable to
do so on account of matters having unexpectedly come
up at the last minute which compelled them to forego
the pleasure of coming back to Lexington.

I had splendid letters from nearly all of the boys
and there was in each letter the true ring of loyalty to
Washington and Lee, and friendship for each member
of our Class.

After attending the various functions of the Uni-
versity, with the celebrities, we then functioned our-
selves at a banquet!

Mrs. Dick Smith and her husband, Dick, enter-
tained us all at a delightful housewarming. I think the
other visiting Alumni wished they were members of
our Class for this occasion.

The following is a breif history of those who
either attended the reunion or wrote to me:

H. S. Coffey, minister, at Keyser, West Virginia.

William H. Womeldorf, farming near Lexington,
Virginia.

Tom Ranson is a newspaper man. Employed at
Wilmington, Delaware, and expected to go to Georgia.

William Taylor Thom, Jr., 172 Prospect Avenue,
Princeton, New Jersey. Professor at Princeton Uni-
versity.

Henry FE. Peeples is located at Decatur, Georgia,
With the firm of O’Neal and McLean.

Tom E. Watts, merchant at Camden, Arkansas.

Kdward F. Sheffey II, 1657 31st Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

Carter Glass, Jr., with the Daily Advance, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

I

mM A @ MAM 2 ae es

G. M. Ward, teaching at Senior High School,
Batesville, Arkansas.

W. L. Tucker, farming at Sandidges, Virginia.

O. D. Higginbotham, farming at Lewisburg, West
Virginia.

Herbert ‘T. Taylor, 3601 Noble Avenue, Ginter
Park, Richmond, Virginia. With Pullen and Company.

Thomas §S. Kirkpatrick, practicing law in the firm
of Kirkpatrick, Burks and Kirkpatrick, Lynchburg,
Virginia.

William J. Flagg, 1615 Eutaw Place, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Cecil H. Lichliter, practicing law in the firm of
Fleming, Hamilton, Diver and Lichliter, at Jackson-
ville, Florida.

Lewis Twyman, practicing law in the firm of ‘T'wy-
man and McCarthy, Miami, Florida.

Dr. J. P. Richardson, practicing medicine at Tay-
lor and Richardson Clinic, Ellensburg, Washington.

Dr. Herman P. Davidson, 30 North Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Eye specialist.

Dr. H. M. Banks, Methodist Episcopal Hospital,
Indianapolis, Indiana.

B. R. Elam, insurance business, Hartford, Conn.

R. E. Royall, 408 “A” Street, S. E., Washington,
D. @

T. P. Wilson, in care of Interstate Commerce
Commission, Washington, D. C.

Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway, New York.
Insurance business.

Edward Lyons, Detroit, Michigan. Doctor. 916 E.
Grand Boulevard, Detroit.

William A. Hyman (Abromovitz) practicing law
in New York, 100 William Street, New York City.

Dr. George West Diehl, minister, 815 North
Broadway, Corpus Christi, Texas.

Adrian Williamson, practicing law with William-
son and Williamson, at Monticello, Arkansas.

John W. Elliott, at Cragmore Sanitorium, Colo-
rado Springs, Colorado, for his health.

Ludo Von Meysenbug, practicing medicine in New
Orleans, Louisiana.

John A. Bowman, preaching at Waterford, Vir-
ginia.

Roger Bear, with Stroehmann Baking Company,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

P. C. Buford, practicing law with the firm of Hall,
Buford and Leftwich, Roanoke, Virginia.

B. R. Lemon, real estate and securities, Lynch-
burg, Virginia.

Benjamin F. Fiery, practicing law with the firm
of Baker, Hostetler, Sidlo and Patterson, Union Trust
Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

[ 23 ]

a: 2. A wa wo mt oN

Fred W. McWane, investment bonds, Lynchburg,
Va. Was a candiadte for Governor on the Republican
ticket.

Philip P. Gibson (Pete) practicing law with the
firm of Marcum and Gibson, Huntington, West Vir-
ginia.

Carroll B. Wiltshire, Lynchburg, Virginia.

G. Doak Davidson, Secretary Warrior Coal Com-
pany, Warriormine, West Virginia.

Red Moore is in Columbus, Ohio.

J. E. Yonge (Skinny), practicing law, Bank of
Bay Biscayne Building, Miami Beach, Florida.

William A. Wright, practicing law at Tappahan-
nock, Virginia. Some day will be a candidate for
Governor of Virginia.

Edward S. Delaplaine, practicing law at Frederick,
Maryland. Prides himself on being a bachelor and au-
thor.

Paul D. Converse, 402 Pennsylvania Avenue, Ur-
bana, Illinois. Teaching.

S. C. Rose, West Point, Mississippi.

Rev. William T. Hanzsche (Bill), preaching in
Trenton, New Jersey. Prospect Street Presbyterian
Church.

R. R. Witt, with the Builders Supply Company,
San Antonio, Texas.

H. V. Carson, preaching at Montgomery, Ala-
bama. Trinity Presbyterian Church.

John J. D. Preston, member of Public Service
Commission of the State of West Virginia, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Wilbur White Smith, with Westminster Tobacco
Company, Ltd., Cape Town, Africa.

Benjamin Haden, Circuit Judge, Fincastle, Vir-
ginia.

You state that inflation or sound money is going
to be the real issue in the next class election. Why bring
this up? None of us has either paper or sound money.
The issue in the next campaign, for me, will be how
many of our boys are we going to get back to Lexing-
ton for the twenty-fifth anniversary of our gradua-
tion? Yours for Washington and Lee.

(The above letter is my class news and is published
with my thanks to Pete and my greetings to all—Ben
Fiery.)

1895
Hersert B. HAwes, Spout Spring, Va.—Hello!
Class of 95. This is Herbert B. Hawes, speaking from
station WMASP—That means “Write me at Spout
Spring, Virginia.”
Only recently have I been selected as your class-
agent, but still I have not had time to write you. My

[ 24 |

I

  
   
   
    
    
    
  
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
   

M YA dG 2A 2 a ae

fault; but I am going now to make up for lost tim
You will be hearing from me soon if I can find ¢
where you are. Meantime, if you get this, please contaey
me.

Our class was spread to the four corners of the
country. In the past thirty odd years I have lived in five
states, but in all that time I have met only one or twe
members of old ’95. One was Brooks Armat. Met in
the Grand Opera House in St. Paul, Minnesota,
haven’t seen or heard of him since. You will remember,
those of you who knew me, that I had the double course
in law. If I didn’t meet all of you, it was because that
course was pretty stiff and I was plugging all the time,
So if I don’t mention you, you will forgive me. Look-
ing over the roster of our class in the Alumni Directory,
I feel that the loss was mine; for the class has, on
whole, made good in a big way.

As I had Junior as well as Senior Law, I feel
I belong to both classes. Then, too, I have at times met
a number of the Junior class here and there. So if ]
mention some of them I will, I hope, be pardoned for
invading "96. |

Since I am counting on renewing old acquaint-
ance, may I indulge in personal retrospect. When I lef
Washington and Lee, I opened a law office at Blue.
field, W. Va. Practiced there unti] 1901. Then took
job with the West Publishing Company, law book pub-
lishers, of St. Paul, Minnesota. Thence in 1904, I wen
to the Edward Thompson Company, law publishers o
Northport, L. I., N. Y. Then to the American Lav
Book Co., of New York City. Thence to Michie Com-
pany of Charlottesville, Virginia. Thence back to St.
Paul, with the Keefe Davidson Company, publishers
of Current Law. Thence back to the Edward 'Thomp.-
son Company after having, meantime, served as prt-
vate secretary to Justice Philip E. Brown, of the
Minnesota Supreme Court. From Edward ‘Thompson
Co., then, I went once more to American Law Book
Co., where I stayed seven years.

By that time my nerves were all a-jitter with the
effort of trying to write law in words of three letters,
so the great lawyers of the land could understand the
stuff. So I bought a big poultry farm at Northport.
Later I transferred my five thousand white legho
to Snow Hill, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, and
that was about my finish; for those pesky chickens ate
me out of house and home. So I picked up and came
back to Virginia and tried the free-lance writing game.
Thanks, you fellows, who purchased a copy of m
novel, The Daughter of the Blood. 1 will not mention
my seven hundred page treatise of the Virginia and
West Virginia Prohibition Law. That was a flunk, be-
cause nobody really wanted to know anything about

, Se A 2 DM N

the prohibition law, and—my usual hard luck—they
went and repealed the thing before my book had a
chance.

Well, that’s enough about me, except that I married
sessie Prince of Bluefield, W. Va., and have managed
to keep her with me, and I have two fine girls and a son
and a grandson.

Maybe this is enough for my first letter as class-
agent, but I must mention some of the fellows I knew
at Washington and Lee, most of them of the class of
1895—a few of 1896.

Feamster. Tutwiler. Deal. Garnett. Guthrie. Har-
low. Moore. Penick. Steve Timberlake, with whom I
went to school in Staunton, Va. Heth Tyler, whom I
had known down at Hampden-Sydney. Rosebro. Sat-
terwhite. Davis and Wyndham Stokes—all of the class
of 1896.

Of the class of 1895, | am now remembering John
Ingles, who, in a football fracas with V. M. L., cap-
tured a captain’s sword and thereby caused internation-
al complications. Johnnie Walker. Martin. McBride.
MclIlhaney, a schoolmate in Staunton. Bell. Fulwiler.
Higginbotham, an old friend, whom I contacted later
in ‘Tazewell, Va. Hunt. Kurtz, who promptly ordered a
copy of my novel thirty years later. Lenert, our famous
Glee Club leader. Lowry, our great Glee Club basso
profundo. McMillan. Williams. “Oregon” Young.
“Touisiana’”’ Young. Gooch, a schoolmate in Staunton.

Then, too, I remember, particularly, John Davis,
who has always, in correspondence, met me on the same
old plane as when we were classmates in Junior Law.
And Marion Ripey, and Dan Young, and others, whose
names are treasured recollections, but whom I have
not the space here to mention.

I think the high spot of my term at Washington
and Lee was that Glee Club trip. Those who were in it,
please write to me. It was some trip. At almost every
stop they feasted us. I remember Lexington, Ky., at an
after-show reception, two girls met us at the door and
wrote our names on the flaps of our high white-wing
collars. At Chattanooga they nearly broke up the show
with a demonstration when the banjo club played Dixie.
At Atlanta there was a sleet and there were only about
fifty people in that great Grand Opera House. At Sa-
vannah, Ga., it was too cold to show, and the Oglethorpe
Club entertained us and tried—vainly, of course, to get
us tight. But we put on a good private show for them.
At Charleston, S. C., we went broke, and temporarily
disbanded to escape the sheriff who had a law sum-
mons for us issued by the opera house folks because
we could not pay for the house. A kindly baggage agent
saved our baggage for us.

Well, that’s enough. Maybe too much. But I am

I

“ao-A €&@ A &@ 2 we ££

hoping some of the old boys will take notice and write
to me—especially class of 1895. Let’s get together again.
It will be worth it.

Now that I have started, I could write a book
about those good old days. But I must stop and give
somebody else room.

The song of college days is ended, “but the melody
lingers on.” Look into your hearts, old friends, and see
if that is not true. And let’s sing the song again.

1893

Lon H. Kerry, Kanawha Valley Bank Build-
ing, Charleston, W. Va,—For some time I have wanted
to write you of and concerning members of the class
of 1893. I was at a loss to know what to write until a
few days ago when Walter Harris, known to the law
class of '93 as Diogenes, now a prominent Virginia
newspaper man living at Petersburg, called at my office.
He came immediately after lunch and found me quite
busy; he said he was in a hurry and just wanted to say
“howdy”, as we had not seen each other for nearly forty
years. We began asking questions about other members
of the class, and both talked full speed until it was

dark.

Each was able to furnish information to the other
as to the "93 law class, which ought to be of some in-
terest, namely :

 

That A. E. Reams is one of the leading lawyers
of Oregon, having served two terms as United States
Attorney, and now resides in the City of Medford; that
B. A. Judd is a prominent lawyer with offices at 25
Broad Street, New York City; that E. L. Nuckells oi
Fayetteville, West Virginia, who was compelled to give
up active practice because of ill health, is slowly re-
covering ; that J. L. Bankson is, or at least recently was,
teaching in the public schcools of St. Louis, Missouri ;
that Jake Fisher is serving his third term as Circuit
Judge and lives at Sutton, West Virginia; that Ed Rider
lives at the same place and divides his time three ways
—law practice, development of gas properties, and Re-
publican politics; that Wells Goodykoontz is a lead-
ing West Virginia lawyer residing at Williamson, and
that he has served as President of the State Senate
and twice in the Congress; that Herbert Fitzpatrick
is Vice-President and Chief Counsel of the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company, with offices in Hunting-
ton, West Virginia, and Cleveland, Ohio.

In the future as I pick up notes of interest about
the ’93 class, both law and academ, I shall write you
again. And I beg you not to wait, but write me any
news of yourself and of everybody we know and are
interested in.

[ 25 ]

a See IN

Local Alumni Association Notes

Huntington, W. Va.

Tue Tri-State Alumni Association of Washing-
ton and Lee reports some sixty members all of whom
are very much interested in the affairs of the Universi-
ty. Although it was only formed some two years ago,
there have been several active meetings, well attended
and unanimously termed to have been very success-
ful. The members come from Huntington, Ashland,
Portsmouth and the immediate Tri-State region. This
section is very proud to boast of the fact that there are
three members of the 1933 football squad, who were
formerly ‘“Tomeats’” of Ashland, Kentucky. The next
meeting is planned for Founders’ Day.

The Tri-State was represented at the Homecoming
game played between Washington and Lee and the
University of Virginia by Jimmy Moore, Selden Mc-
Neer, Joe Fitchett, Joe McVay, T. J. C. Mayo and
Philip Gibson. By the way, T. J. C. Mayo, who is a
very active and loyal supporter of Washington and Lee,
is a half-brother of Captain Amos Bolen.

John J. D. Preston, 1913, is now a member of the
Public Service Commission of West Virginia, having
recently been appointed to that office by Hon. H. G.
Kump, Governor. We all know that John will reflect
honor on his Alma Mater in this position.

Joe W. Dingess, 1921, along with others, attended
the Washington and Lee-V. P. I. game in Blacksburg
on November 4th.

Selden S. McNeer, 1916, and John T. Delaney,
who also took his academic training at Washington and
Lee, have formed a law partnership with offices in the
First Huntington National Bank Building in Hunting-
ton, West Virginia, and are now practicing under the
style and firm name of McNeer and Delaney.

Richmond, Va.

THe Ricumonp Alumni Association has organized
for the year with Otto M. Stumpf, president; Lewis
I*, Powell, secretary and treasurer; and Dr. James N.
Williams, vice-president. Honorary life memberships
were awarded to Hon. Samuel H. Younge and the
Hon. Henry T. Wickham, both of whom have long
been active, forever loyal and whose alumniship goes
back to the days of General Lee.

Otto Stumpf reports the meeting of November
9th, which was a special meeting preparatory to the
Homecoming game with Virginia in Lexington on No-
vember 11. The result showed in the large number of

[ 26 ]

Mo Ao Or tA Zo

men from Richmond and vicinity who were here for
that great occasion. ‘The speakers were James R,
Caskie, George Paul, Charlie Moss, Lieut.-Governor
Price and Mr. Carson.

The next meeting is planned for February 22,
when Governor Peery will be the speaker. It will be-
held in the John Marshall Hotel and a large and en-
thusiastic crowd is expected.

Washington, D. C.

Tur Wasuincton Alumni had a fine “get-to-
gether” on the night before.the Maryland game. The
place was the Racquet Club, and the size of the gath-—
ering exceeded expectations so far that it taxed the
hospitality which had been generously offered by Wood-
son Houghton, president of the Washington associa-—
tion. This “hospitality” included, among other things,
certain rare, but entirely legal, imported beverages from
the Vaterland. .

Interesting and timely talks were given by Presi-
dent Francis P. Gaines, Dean Frank Gilliam, and Alum-
ni Seccretary “Cy” Young. The only criticism was that
the talks were all too short, for Woodson had specifi-
cally offered to allow Dr. Gaines to talk until it became
necessary to “turn the calendar” to another day. }

Following the business meeting, at which your
local officers, to their regret, were not permitted to
resign in favor of newer and better blood, there was an_
enjoyable hour of reminiscing among the members of
the clan. Fully fifty men were present—they came in
so fast that we did not have time to count and check
them all. Your secretary did a land office business ir
the sale of tickets for the Maryland game, but the less”
said about that game the better.

A partial list of those on hand is as follows: |

Woodson P. Houghton, Paul W. Hammack, H. R.-
Mills, Lt. Thomas ‘T. Hassell, James Quarles, J. A.
Weinberg, Jr., G. H. Harper, Everett N. Cross, R. M.
De Shazo, Allen S$. DeLand, D. W. Alexander, John —
B. Ecker, Edward F. Shaffey II, Samuel Hickson, A.—
S. J. Atkinson, Jr., R. S. Paulett, Madison P. Coe, M.
R. Hummer, Melvin Ottenberg. |

Dozier A. DeVane, Edward E. Ferguson, E. B.
Shultz, Edward Dawson, Elwood H. Seal, F. P. Guth-—
rie, Wise Kelly, A. Dana Hodgdon, W. O. Burtner, —
“Ty” Rauber, Floyd Compton, Ben C. Flournoy, R.-
A. Waddill, Dawson Trundle, N. Graham Lytle, George
Hunter Osborne, Torrence Wolford, Robert Williams,
“Ike” Kincheloe. —EpMuND CAMPBELL.

   
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  

7, H E A 2 BV MN

I

wu 2s & HM 2 SS

 

Class Notes

1931—JAMES ALEXANDER VEECH of Louisville, Ky.,
has joined the faculty of the University, filling a place
left vacant by the death of Prof. Lyle, with Prof. Hale
Houston acting head of the School of Engineering.

1928—Rosert F. Howe, Stuttgart, Ark., class-agent
for 1928 and Miss Maude Cain Crow were married in
the First Presbyterian Church of Greenwood, Miss.,
Saturday afternoon, November 18. Mrs. Howe is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Crow of Greenwood.

“Otis Howe, 1926, brother of the groom, served
as best man.

‘Mrs. Howe was graduated from Mississippi State
College for Women, where she was editor of “Meh
Lady.”

“Mr. Howe is a graduate of Washington and Lee
University and the Harvard Business School and is a
member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity. He is vice-
president of the Walton Rice Mills at Stuttgart, Ark.”

RicHArD Fritz, Jr., 1927, Congers Road, New
York City, N. Y., and Miss Florence Dorothea Kauf-
mann of Millington, N. J., were married at the Blue
Hills Country Club, Pearl River, New York, on July
6th. Dick is sales representative in the state of New
Jersey for Joseph Telley and Co.

1925—Gisnson Boupinot WITHERSPOON of Meridian,
Miss., and Miss Mary Anne Moore, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Benjamin Dowd Moore of Hattiesburg,
Miss., were married in Hattiesburg, on Thursday the
twenty-third of November.

1919]. R. Farn of Winston-Salem, N. C., former
president of the Morris Plan Bank, has been made
president of the newly organized First National Bank
and ‘Trust Co., of that city.

1915—Jor Mitner of Gulfport, Miss., visited Lexing-
ton this fall and paid a call at Alumni headquarters.

1912—From Amoy, China, word was recently received
of the arrival of another daughter to Mr. and Mrs.
J. Presly Thornton. “Pres” Thornton, who hailed from
Pensacola, Fla., is manager of the Socony in this sec-
tion of China. The Thorntons now have three daugh-
ters.

1912—Jupcr Joun J. D. Preston has been appointed
a member of the Public Service Commission of West
Virginia.

1911—Jupcr Samuev B. Scrern, 15 West Main St.,
Madison, Wisc., formerly judge of the Superior Court

sends a handsome contribution to his class and says
“this matter of our Alma Mater has been on my mind
almost constantly” with good wishes, approval of the
new class-agent plan and his support in the revival.

1911—Joun FE. (Jack) Martin, Suffolk, Va., has
been elected president of the School Superintendents
Association of Virginia.

1910—THornton W. ALLEN, composer of the “Wash-
ington and Lee Swing,’ is also composer of the new
football songs of Vanderbilt and Cincinnati Universi-
ties, both of which are being widely used this fall. Mr.
Allen wrote the music for “Vanderbilt Forever” and
the lyric was composed by Grantland Rice, celebrated
sports writer. Mr. Allen wrote both words and music
for “ March On, Cincinnati.”

Mr. Allen’s popularity as a college song writer
has become nation-wide. Recently he wrote the new
football song for Washington State College, which he
has called ‘““‘When The Big State Team Goes Tearing
Along.” Among some of the other college songs writ-
ten by him are “Fight, Wildcats, Fight” (University of
Arizona), “Wa-hoo” (William and Mary), “Victory
Song” (U. of Maryland), “March Of The Fighting
Gators” (U. of Florida), and “March of Triumph”
(U. of Alabama, written in collaboration with Gabriel
Jacoby).

Thornton W. Allen’s new song, “Phi Delta Theta
On Parade” was recently prize winner in the fratern-
ity’s national song contest.

Mr. Allen has just completed compiling and editing
Rudy Vallee’s “Collection Of Vagabond Songs” which
is now being published by the Southern Music Co.

Mr. Allen recently resigned as managing editor
of the Musical Courier, international music magazine,
and is now devoting all his time to composing and pub-
lishing music.

1910—Hersert FE. HAnnis, re-elected prosecuting at-
torney for Berkeley County, West Virginia, for the
fourth successive term of four years on the Republi-
can ticket.

1909—LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR JAMES HUBERT PRICE
was re-elected Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia by a
large Democratic majority. The defeated Republican
candidate was J. Powell Royal, 1899.

1908—DozirEr A. DEVANE, class-agent for 1908, Wash-
ington, D. C., has a new job. We quote from the press:

“Dozier A. DeVane, well known Floridian, was

[ 27 ]

: el ae aA & ib ON

I

mw “V G A 2 Aa

 

today selected as solicitor for the Federal Power Com-
mission. The choice was unanimous.

“Mr. DeVane will begin his duties next Monday.

‘Dozier DeVane was born in Polk County, Florida,
near Lakeland, August 2, 1883. He was educated at the
Plant City high school, Florida State College at Talla-
hassee and at Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Va. From 1908 to 1918, he practiced law in
Tampa, where he was attorney for Hillsborough Coun-
ty during 1913 and 1914. He was counsel at ‘Talla-
hassee for the State Railroad Commission from 1918
to 1921.

“At Washington and Lee he was a college mate of
present Federal Power Commissioner Basil M. Manly
and for many years in Florida was a close neighbor of
Federal Power Commissioner H. J. Drane of Lakeland.
Among the splendid endorsements given him were those
of many well known Florida folk, Democratic national
Committeeman John S. Taylor of Largo; two former
governors of Florida, a former chairman of the Florida
Railroad Commission, a member of the Interstate Com-
merce Commission, a Supreme Court judge of Vir-
ginia who was on the Virginia Public Utilities Com-
mission years ago and a number of judges and eminent
lawyers in this section.

“Since 1922 Mr. DeVane has spent the greater part
of his time in Washington. Until 1930 he was attorney
for the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company
and since then has been engaged in general practice.
At present he is representing the State Corporation
Commission of Virginia in special cases.

“Mr. DeVane has a nation wide acquaintance. A
good mixer and noted for his hospitality, the DeVane
home for years has been one of the gathering places
for prominent persons from the State. He has been as-
sociated with a number of Florida lawyers in matters
before government departments and in cases brought
here from lower courts.”

1905—From Dan C. MILLER, of Reed and Miller,
Sporting Goods, 404 East Colorado St., Pasadena, Cal.,
to Pret. Holland, acting class-agent for 1905.

“Your letter of a month ago has all this while been
claiming my careful attention, though it seems I never
had so little time for doing the more pleasurable things
of life. With the additional work occasioned by the
NRA, with a National Cotton tax to irk the merchant,
with a new California State 244% sales tax gone into
effect here—I have found myself pressed for time.

“T still can not account for that love’s labor lost
job of yours—having to come from the class of 1906
into the rescue of 1905, because the responses had been
so poor in the former efforts with my class.

“And, about the time that this letter came from

[ 28 ]

  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  

you a month ago, there also came to me a copy of th
Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine. And I rea
your article there, going a bit into the psychology 9
this matter of eliciting replies. And there were sop
remarks from and about some of the old boys I used t
know. [I presumed that nearly all of this informatioy
came from your efforts, causing me to feel kindly an
grateful toward anyone willing to undertake such |
task as must have been yours. 3

“Here is enclosed that dollar. I trust it to ride
safely, without fussing with a check or money order
And here is also that biographical sketch, done a bj
disjointedly and informally. I know not for what it t
wanted, save perhaps to file in the archives. a

“Graduated in the class of 1905, with degree o
B.S. in Civil Engineering. Beginning in fall of 1908
was instructor in civil engineering for one year only a
the University of the South, Sewanee, ‘Tenn.

“In the fall of 1906 took job with Jamestown Ex
position Co., as engineer on the installation of wate
and sewer lines on the fair grounds, serving throug
the whole show as ‘Superintendent of Water an
Sewers’, remaining on that job until the early sprin
of 1908. In spring of 1908 returned to Washington an
Lee, stayed about 2 months, rowed stroke oar on th
2nd or scrub crew for Harry Lee, concocted a thes
telling about the work at Jamestown, and was in Jun
awarded by a generous faculty my C.F. degree. |

“In fall of 1908 went to University of Michigz
remaining there for six years, as Insrtuctor and Assist
ant Professor in engineering department. In fall of 191
went to Texas Agriculture and Mechanical College a
Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, remaining
there for two years.

“During these nine years of teaching I spent som
interesting summers at practical engineering. One sur
mer with the Illinois Central railroad, in Alaba
Three summers were spent with the U. S. Forest se
vice as special surveyor, on National Forest boundé
lines, in Montana. One summer was spent with
Southern Pacific railroad, in Texas.

‘In September, 1914, was married, here in Pass
dena, to Marguerite Reed—a graduate of the Unive cs
sity of Michigan, class of 1912. We have two daughters
In other words, had a new wife and a new job, both i
September, 1914. taking the bride from Pasadena
Texas. During the two years down there we longed t
get back to California. :

“So, in the late fall of 1916 we gave up the job a
Texas A. and M., and came to California without job
I spent more than a month in getting located, finalh
going in with a general contractor in Los Angeles, dé
ing the office estimating work. About this time, abo
in January 1916, was enrolled in the Officer’s Reserv

7T H E a2 2 ee ON

—=——

Corps, U. S. Engineers. So, when our country went into
the big war I got immediately hauled in. Went in as a
1st Lieut., came out at the end of two years and two
months as a captain.

“Saw duty with the A. I. F.
than one year, with the engineers, though not on the

in France for more

firing lines.

 

George C. Peery, 1897

I

se: Se Ae Oe eS

“Returning to California after the war, in July,
1919, found my contracting company all gone to the
wall, and I had a hard time getting back into engineer-
ing work. So hard that I never did get back. Instead,
became a merchant. And for these 14 years have been
a merchant here in Pasadena; being owner of Reed
and Miller (trade name) Sporting Goods Company
and Reed and Miller Travel Bureau.”

1905—Cuarces N. CAMPBELL was appointed assistant
prosecuting attorney for Berkeley County, West Vir-
ginia, for the fourth successive term of four years each.

1903—Mayor JAMES WARREN Bac_eEy has had a noted
career in the Army. He has specialized in mapping and
invented the Bagley 4-lens automatic camera. This is
the principal dependence of aerial photographers in ex-
tensive mapping by air. For the last four years Major
Bagley has had charge of all mapping and issue of
charts for the Great Lakes. He has been transferred to
Assistant to the Chief of Engineers at Washington,
in charge of all mapping and topographic information
for the Army.

1903—Srvuart CHEVALIER, 48 Wall St., New York, is
opening a new winter residence at Warm Springs, Ga.,
neighbor to President Roosevelt.

1902—Joun RANbotpH ucKER of Richmond, Vir-
ginia, vice-president of the Washington and Lee Alum-
ni Association, headed the Henrico Citizen’s League in
a fight for a modern system of government for the
county, in the county manager plan. Having won this
phase of the fight, they continued on into the support
at the polls of a board of supervisors in sympathy with
the plan.

1897—GeorcE C. PEERY was elected Governor of Vir-
ginia by a large Democratic majority. The defeated re-

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below.
ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

If interested in the technical side

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 29 |

: er: Gee = a es. es . Ses

I

  

m JA (6 Ao ve: oe

 

publican candidate was Fred W. McWane of the clceass
of 1913.

1894—At the head of the four Army officers selected
by President Roosevelt to be Brigadier Generals in the
Army was Colonel Thomas FE. Merrill, Washington and
Lee alumnus of the class of 1894. Colonel Merrill left
Washington and Lee before graduation to enter the
United States Military Academy at West Point, from
which he graduated in 1898. All his service has been in
the Army Artillery and General Staff. During the
World War he was promoted to Colonel of the 15th
Field Artillery and commanded this regiment in France
in the campaigns of the Second Division at Chateau
Thierry.

1893—Lon H. KEL ty, attorney of Charleston, is the
new president of the West Virginia Bar Association.

Mr. Kelly is a member of the law firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight. For many years he has been
prominent in Democratic politics. He served as United
States district attorney in southern West Virginia dur-
ing President Wilson’s administration, having been ap-
pointed from Sutton, his old home town. After re-
tiring from the district attorney's office he became a
member of the local law firm and has participated in
many important legal cases. A few years ago he serv-
ed as chairman of the Kanawha county Democratic
executive committee. He is the father of Robert G.
Kelly, 1918, chairman of the state Democratic com-

 
   
    
   
 

mittee, who also is a member of the same law firm. M
Kelly is class-agent for the class of 1893.

1892—W. C. (Levr) Moron of Martinsburg, West
Virginia, was elected clerk of the Circuit Court of
Berkeley county in November 1932 for a term of six
years, the first Democrat to hold the office for mo
than forty years.

 

1891—WiLuiiAm_ _H.
igtp will take his

Circuit
Jefferson

seat as
Judge in
County, Ky., (In-
cluding Louisville)
January Ist after an
absence from this
bench of eight years.
He had served as
Judge in this court
for 16 years to
1926. He is elected ‘
for four years. a
While at Washing-
ton and Lee he was
editor of the Col-
legian and a pitcher
on the baseball team.

1887—Dr. Le&sLiKz !
LYLE CAMPBELL, 15

 

Lon H. Kelly, 1893

 

 

McCRUM’S

Where Everybody Meets to Enjoy

Ten Flavors of Delicious Ice-Cream

Tasty Sandwiches and

SL gecna, ON. Tae

—‘‘Fountain Service Unexcelled’’—

 

 

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, ManaceEr

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid. . _ $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid... 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid... .... 1.50
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

[ 30 ]

 

 

T 2 Apne dy MON

I

MR Gogh Z 2] aaa

 

aa

Ware Street, Cambridge, Mass., has written a dedi-
catory remembrance to the class of 1887, in honor of
the passage of 50 years and the freshness of his mem-
ories.
LEXINGTON
Dedicated to the Class of 1887
Tune: GENEVIEVE
O Lexington! Dear Lexington !

Our happy home in student years ;

Our love for you, so strong, so true,

Shall live through all our joys and tears.

Dear Comrades of the golden days,
Come back to us, abide with us,
And sing again the olden lays,
And walk again the happy ways.
Chorus:
O Lexington! Dear Lexington!
All through our young and elder days,
Our love for you will bloom anew,
And ever fill our hearts with praise:
Dear Lexington!

188O—TueE Rev. Epwarp EELLs, 226 Woodridge St.
Manchester, Conn., in an interview with the New York

Times, discloses plans for a new club. Mr. Eells is the
organizer of metropolitan branches of the Three-Score
and-Ten Club. The new club will be called the Brother
and Sister Band of the Widowed.

Mr. Eells, who is 72 years old, and a retired Con-
gregationalist minister, explained that the band would
not be matrimonial in its primary object, although “‘its
horizon will necessarilly be fringed with possible ro-
mances.” Should a widow and _ widower, meeting
through the organization, get married they will become
honorary members, he added.

The first meeting of the organization was held at
the Alamo hotel in West Forty-third Street. A consti-
tution was drawn up and a date set for the election of
officers.

Mr. Eells has thought up some new titles for the
officers. Instead of a president the band will have an
“all-round” brother” ; for vice-president, an “all-round”’
sister’; as secretary, a brother or sister scribbler.

Mr. Eells is a graduate of Washington and Lee
University, the University of Virginia and Union
Theological Seminary. He retired from the ministry
in Hartford, Conn., about six years ago. ‘Two sons,
Karnest and Hastings, are clergymen.

Soe Oe ee

In Memoriam

1915

I.KONARD CARL ZAIss, artist, sculptor, prominent
resident of Purchase, near Harrison, N. Y., found dead
by a bullet wound, at his home, early on the morning
of November 26. His widow was the former Lillian
Ames Chapman, granddaughter of the late Governor
Ames of Massachusetts.

1908

FOXHALL DAINGERFIELD, 46 years old, author of
several popular mystery stories, was found dead in a
held at Haylands, a thoroughbred farm.

Daingerfield was the author of Ghost House and
Murder in the Gay Nineties. His latest book, Mrs.
Hlaney’s House, was published November 1.

Daingerfield suffered a severe nervous breakdown
while working on Mrs. Haney’s House, and came to
the Daingerfield home here from Washington to re-
cuperate.

His father, Algernon Daingerfield, is secretary of
the Jockey Club, New York. Other relatives include
three half-sisters, Miss Margaret Duncan Daingerfield,
daughter of Algernon Daingerfield, and two Misses
Ecker, daughters of Mrs. George Ecker of Richmond,

Va., five aunts, Misses Juliet, Elizabeth, and Bessie
Daingerfield of Lexington, Mrs. A. C. Norman, Seat-
tle, Washington, and Mrs. A. C. Van Winkle, Louis-
ville, Ky., and an uncle, J. Keene Daingerfield of Lex-
ington.

He was educated at Transylvania College, Lexing-
ton, and at Washington and Lee University, in Vir-
ginia. As a young man he appeared on the legitimate
stage, and had played with the late Minnie Maddern
Fiske.

1895

THe Rev. Dr. BENJAMIN Lucius ANCELL died
in Yangchow, China, on Thursday, November 30.
He was for 34 years a Protestant Episcopal missionary
in China. He was born May 15, 1868, in Goochland
county, Virginia. A.B., Washington and Lee, 1895;
M.A. Columbia; D.D. Virginia Theological Seminary,
1899, He married Miss Frances Fenton Cassel. He was
one of the founders of the Episcopal Church in China,
founder of Soochow Academy, of the Mahan School
at Yangchow where he died. He was called to the
Presidency of St. Johns University in Shanghai but
declined. He helped spread missions throughout China.

[ 31 |

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee

alumni of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession

to transact business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who

by reason of specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the some profession
are invited to place their cards in the directory.

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson

Attorney-at-Law
Marcum, Lovins and Gibson
First National Bank Building

Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal
Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

 

OE iS ear.

William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
’09

Counsellor-at-Law Attorney-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

E. C. Caffrey, John H. oe Jr.,

09 Tucker and Mason

Court House Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.

Hackensack, N. J.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Carlton D. Dethlefsen Edmund D. Campbell,
’18-’22
Attorney-at-Law
Attorney-at-Law

Suite 301 Bank of America Bldg.
625 Market Street

San Francisco, California

Telephone EXbrook 0237

Douglas, Obear and Douglas

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, ’10

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

 

 

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

[ 32 ]

 

 

 

ne

Se alti ees.
= ete vas ate a
it ~ ' Se
5 de
er

‘ ¥ a ee ae
i we Oe

See.
oe

“7

7 ge he *

Sena e , ;

5 eae et
P “ “ TUL 2

MG gee

. at be

aA or

ee

-

f

ne
oo

a
aot “3
oi

ae

Wadia eM
Bee

ae:
ag

is

 

ae
5 aes ae 5
~ "o¥ie ae =
oh eet oe fe
Se ae Ot et ee
Fated, C8 ny F
ents ee es
baa EN at hsd ve Cy aie :
Ro - Ss > beni Ts

arn a week
ce ate
ve 2 ots

Pays
cs

ts
A

Sere

“a

Ree :
(eee oe

oa
Red

a nee)

, tS ales ,
eieb + ng , ¥,.
Er ay Nae te
; 7 te 7
ERT RES te
She eee

a

~
a

i.

 

}

 

...to me theyre MILDER :
...to me they TASTE BETTER

Salty

5

Wn « whe

?

© 1934, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

 

