The i -
Alumni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

OCTOBER
1938

 

 

 

 

Homecoming Day

4 *

Saturday, October 22

Generals vs. Wa. Tech

WILSON FIELD, 2:30 P. M.

4* *

Your Friends Will Be Here. . .
Will You?

 

 

 

 

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Education—Not Through Fear or Force

(The President's Page)

HE editor of a daily paper recently watched about

forty robust college boys climb into a bus and go
merrily down the highway. He made this occurrence the
theme for an impressive editorial, saying that at this trou-
bled time in any other “civilized” country of
the world those boys could be going to only one
place, for only one purpose: a point of concen-
tration where they would be put in readiness
for war. The American boys; however, were
going to play an innocent game ef football with
other boys of their own country.

It is probably time for us to pause again in
gratitude for the elemental things that we have
long taken for granted; for example, the fact
that in this country a boy’s life is still his own
to command, rather than a unit of personality to be held
for the huge and horrible exigency of an international
conflict.

But if we are grateful for this fact we should be mind-
ful with new emphasis of a correlative. This is, stated
roughly, the obligation that is upon us so to stimulate and
encourage these boys who enjoy perfect freedom of or-
dering their own destiny, that the resultant lives will be
disciplined and devoted, not by virtue of an outward regi-
mentation but by virtue of the inward compulsions, born
of faith in ideals which are steadily envisioned and nur-
tured by experiences which make for fitness.

For when all is said and done, those boys who live un-
der relentless outward authorities, the kind of govern-
ment we call dictators, achieve superbly certain ends. They
are given physical exercises to keep the body in best con-
dition ; they are given such education as they do receive
under conditions that make for knowledge plus fidelity to
duty; they develop capacity for intense work; and they
are taught to hold their lives as completely subordinate
to a cause.

The problem of our education is to lead a boy to per-
fect all these competencies not through fear of merciless

 

force that is without him but through the strength of pur-
pose within him.

To this end we at Washington and Lee seek consist-
ently to scrutinize and to enforce the processes for adjust-
ment and the modes of inspiration that we
think serviceable.

It may seem elaborate, the pattern of our ef-
fort to encourage boys to develop within them-
selves momentum of mind and spirit. We have
a large number of orientation meetings ; we have
faculty advisers for every student ; we have stu-
dent councilors in the dormitories to aid the
freshmen; we have in certain departments a
generous provision by which the instructors give
extra time to students who are slow in mental
acquisitiveness in that field; we have enlarged greatly our
program of religious stimulation.

We are looking for any other mode by which the
University can give the boy a good start and,can help him
sustain his initial energies.

It may seem elaborate, but if it should save one boy
it would be worth it all. Indeed it should help many boys.
No one can diagnose the exact point at which a boy’s
courage may falter or his inner government may weaken
or his personal ideals be dimmed. About all that we can
do is to provide the maximum of encouragement, hoping
that in this varied service we may at the critical moment
reach the boy when he most needs help.

It is my conviction that the alumni of this institution
and the discerning leaders of youth on the secondary
levels will be glad to know that Washington and Lee has
such a program and recognizes its importance. We feel

that this effort is one of the primary phases of our mission

Puck A re

President

to youth.

[3]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

eee

aaa)
CO oe
_——
—

Eighty-four sons of Washington and Lee alumni enrolled this year at their fathers’ alma mater are shown in the above photo.

Eighty-Four Sons of Alumni Enrolled

IGHTY-FOUR sons of alumni, six more than last year,
were enrolled at Washington and Lee University at
the opening this fall of the 190th session.

Attendance of so many “‘alumni sons” this year indi-
cates, administration officials pointed out, steadily grow-
ing tendency on the part of former students to send their

sons to their Alma Mater.

Registrar's figures showed this month that total regis-
tration for the 1938-1939 session was 948. This figure in-
cludes the largest freshman class of the past three years—
the freshman enrollment this fall is 287. The enrollment
figures also include 36 transfers, 17 of whom are in the
Total enrollment for the law school was
106, a figure slightly above that of last year.

School of Law.

Dr. Gaines indicated prior to the opening of school in
September that the established quota of 925 students
would be exceeded because of an unusually heavy increase
in the number of applications for admission to the Uni-

versity. A gradual increase in applications has been ob-

served by administration officials for the past several
years.
+, *

The sons of alumni are pictured in the large photo-
graph to the top of this page. “Alumni sons” in the enter-
ing class are shown in the other photograph accompany -
ing this article.

Sons of alumni at the University this year are:

Son Father
John Alexander, Jr.%.........ccocccsccsccccsesescese J. R. H. Alexander ’07
Gone Ali dg dsc evens cusssscnaglipnnadtpetictdinnes teeny engi E. L. Alford ’85
ACT, SF lencviceccisenspvencsshshabbaladibespenbactaucbatenss R. W. Arnold ’08
Lupton AVETY......ccccccccccccccccccccscccscseseccesesceee Clarence R. Avery ’14
Charles: Bassley 52. 0csc.. sh iibe henihatiiia Charles F. Bagley ’07
Pred Bartenstein, Ur ...cccncssstescecccscncacsbocoseqnese Fred Bartenstein ’08
MT TIATT Po CBR cnececdeiececevessntnstoocnosesacecoesorescence Ernest L. Beale ’08
a si scegseebossncnsesecoucs Frank Bedinger ’13
Robert Mac Boatwright............ccccccceees John G. Boatwright ’15
I a canadectnnaserscocacenee George Brooke 00
i Esc en cnadescdeveuucesessscoevecss Edward Brown’11
ts. scsncdecsusesccceseccoesceees Jerry Burke ’15

[ 4]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Son Father
TU SIRT ish cpsnses tocaty sinc desseeasctssshgnescrvenpiancvenio’ W. P. Daniel
DOI LE Mi instisnsessnsiesstechovosinesitgnhqnecshnrevohieaneiies John Davis
I IIE? 00,25 ,5., nck boceddpeeyanaeoemnesbapanestisaiee Mason Deaver
William Delaplaine, Jr........cccsccccccsssossecese Wm. T. Delaplaine
A ass: 1. 5, .:55.d0 nubitdsdavenecdaebiinussAineidea eae H. A. Derr
Wie ee Al CeIn 1 Maonssuanevitisctanpaunredeibiinca amen W. R. J. Dunn
James M. Faulkner, JT.......0.....cccssteataptestoocectsen J. M. Faulkner
TF BEAR OIG necta vende c ren cscecsysecovenyeaneeinbabacacsies Wim. H. Foard
COB. Os FE cksessnh i ip sce sececpenndtecsaetiilingeenessbensaal G. H. Forgy
Fe aides a ctascopcaresecernheccocdeiildnsesss EK. W. Foreman
FONE i es E Bvcasececes co pcceceqsansgibtinedasve’ J. W. Garrow
COO IS Boiss cnccceccsccecdecenaeennabia Isaac P. Gassman
WV eal ti Sage ig ins soso vadceninn dccteiaes 3 F. P. Guthrie
EER VE. LIE os dace cco. cccnsacasmupbibenmmieteeanie H. A. Handley
ps” Be, SN aa iiSonadsccccsicccoepenhasebaineiatahicdress L.. R. Hanna
Cecal EMRE Fe oie dictecsvccsccocccscccocsccuseameseadee Walter C. Hardy
Fe, SEW a, AMO MIUNE BE Bis thccecccssccvcccscesccstnanennnae J. N. Harman, Jr.
SAP TRIG: FE REE eb be deiststheseeces-scsecoedosnteaeeinabaeres Birnie Harper
Kennedy RGR, «92 scccsdsenseccscccccccassonsune T. Kennedy Helm
EDACKK EE CPU. onc decsccckusdtlienniceacoonccensseleand John G. Herndon
Charies <HOneon, ) 19: cGakk.:. is... ci sce C. N. Hobson
SREDIIOIE - CANOE cons sécicssncdalilnssiaccockicccasiaenian H. P. Hobson
By Uh BORE RG sith tiirsg see scosescccccctagskbbensenvassaiseaaanl ** M. P. Burks
WY TEBE BMI conicsccccvcvossccvcceneccosancsctuslncaamed Clarence Burns
TONY ig MNO, LET. Sci cccececcenosssscencieanene John L. Campbell
Robert 2 Gammell, Jr.....0ccescesectecessessens Robert F. Campbell
CO Bri ©... «ccnensceupseniaeniinbaaiaiai G. W. Chaney
THROU MUC OE iocaicaccccccecccskcccscoscccecdwocsccess George W. Cleek
Wl CARE 5 os iciccs cece scnsncesdsdbdecceuese Melvin EF. Cruser

 

"18
"92
"OS
09
"10
07
"17
‘06
"18
"13
99
07
‘11
06
14
14
"12
ae
95
‘11
06
14
O05
O01
09
78
"11
"he
‘09

oe

Son Father
ep SC Sib thisss codsecsccavsdebtaeideGdecescevicall R. EK. Holland’14
PROPS TEC i cecoscesbicsia Sas A. A. Houser '09
SOMO EEC i cescteciscevetcasrdaaede 2 oe R. M. Hunter ’86
Robert F. Hutcheson, Jr.........ccccccvcsceveseveves R. F. Hutcheson ’10
RODETE SD.  FRURIOSOR, FT... 0cccsssctiussbabinedindi: R. S. Hutcheson ’10
POSS EL VUGOI Foie cecieveedengerivscenmei tae R. W. Hynson ’08
PESIBNRE JONNSON.........cccsscsocsseses eens W. M. Johnson ’08
JORD - JONSON, 5.0005<ccccccceccecesesosececstove een J. G. Johnston ’11
PE GORROE SOMES, Pi ncvccecacesesnvescevveccseseen naan Homer Jones °17
SV OROE MASA OTiC le, 5.0... -cvcceanensbseeninen ** F. S. Kirkpatrick ’83
JOKE TR Bb ooo nxwscics cosniicvorescienssiganeme a ola Jeff Kiser ’16
FR UIBGGEE ROOT v0 e0 0000-0000 0epdicssendeenn dade desisbesdebneanl Jeff Kiser °16
PICO rte, FL... iccdicccen cane, stk ou A. R. Larrick ’07
Co PI Fl vrai csecccevansctvncesee eet ec. sccanidl C. P. Lewis 712
POO: Le aie saiivisanecocuccdes cee. Joseph T. Lykes ’09
A cn ee aie ee ae J. A. McClure ’99
UIT me le kucenat Wm. G. MacCorkle 710
Keith McMurrranv..........ccccccccsccccsccseeses ** Lewis A. McMurran ’07
ok a a a Fo OR en Howard Macfarlane ‘13
DG ic has ides koiintobsubhcdaciaasbadeccceee J. R. Mighell, Jr. 713
Ts si ckdie coplcpupe eek Deis aces W. S. Parkins ’14
bi odvecdacscdidcedushinbeaenniitbabesdbebacibiodaaee Fort Pipes °10
ess). sacecsaqusdbastbbaenichvedenledike James H. Price ’09
SP EONCNN 1 8......... ocssavibansechndnansaleubaipesls Heartsill Ragon ’08
ak. ois sss, once ccnhsnpisaindebamual enmnnenienaiate P. C. Rogers °13
A GNEE SMMET ROT 011... cccocncsonsnovessbisesane ** Joseph Ruffner, Jr. ’12
Ur NP EUIRAET A PO... ci nacicucosgubbcaniooonieebodetaaniene Murray Smith ’05
SE, «son suuennpsinaigandsedonsaniiiebaieonalininiie R. A. Smith ’13
Bese Pe NIIRL EB Biv cndvncpacccusiseinansepieticchiaaaiial R. B. Spindle, Jr. ’06

First row, left to right: Marshall Johnson, Robert F. Campbell, Jr., R. B. Spindle, III, Ned Burks, Paul C. Thomas, Jr., R. G.

Thach, Jr.,
Deaver, Jr.,

Richard F. Burks. Second row, left to right: Alfred L. Wolfe, Jr., John W. Garrow, Jr., Gordon Alford, Mason
G. H. Forgy, Jr. Third row, left to right: Lorenz T. White, Jr., James Foard, Robert Mac Boatwright. Fourth

row, left to right: J. N. Harman, III, W. R. Kiser, Forrest Wall, Frank Bedinger, Jr. Not in picture: Howard Brooke, John
Daniel, Joseph Ruffner, III, Clarence L. Tardy.

[5]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

 

 

 

 

Son Father
OR TET... ...cscnencdibiisinticelmscidbemamaiil R. E. Steele, Jr. ’12
Horace Sutherland, JTr.............cccccssssccceesees Horace Sutherland ’17
Clarence L. Tardy™*......... E. L. Tardy ’11
R: CX, "Finch, Fi. ....ncsouiaiddndesdeneirsacdédigskisgsamecnes R. G. Thach °10
Paul Thomas, Jr........... Paul C. Thomas ’15
Stockton Tyler, J ticiiciiiitalnslbiidinedeinedan S. Heth Tyler ’96
Forrest, ‘Wall. .civi: cists tadstictacceccstcon ** Hiram P. Wall 710
Lorenz. White, Jf .cscibsiietatinenelssenanentetenoncessics Lorenz T. White ’16
Walter Wallcims, Se saiaicteiteiccinattasssidoeticee Walter Wilkins ’14
Phil Wieaisams, J 0i,.c:daeieandandeeienstsdsincspeeiesecice Phil Williams °10
Bert WA TION, cence cnccn ach aistl eee RE diadlacnadngditasecsicees Larry Wilson °10
PiSiel OE 1S canscuchgeeaet maine selancaseceesnenntceeedl A. L. Wolfe 12
Herbert Woodward, Jr................000 Herbert M. Woodward ‘13

* Not in picture ** Deceased

“i. Nae

The 190th session actually got under way Septem-
ber 9 with the opening of the annual freshman camp deep
in the Blue Ridge mountains about twenty miles from the
campus. The camp, inaugurated more than a decade ago
as “an experiment in education,” has grown so much in
popularity that it has become an established part of the
freshman orientation program.

The camp, under the direction of Dean of Students
Frank J. Gilliam since it first was started, had an enroll-
ment this year of 136, the maximum figure because of
lack of accommodations for more. The camp roster is
filled on a “first come, first served” basis, and the quota
was reached weeks before opening day.

Freshmen this year again were given a full week of
orientation that included a series of meetings in Lee
Chapel. Freshmen who attended the camp returned to the
campus September 12 in time for the first of the orien-
tation meetings.

Soa:

At the opening University assembly in Doremus Gym-
nasium September 16—the first day of classes—Dr.
Gaines urged the students to be conscious of the compli-
cated foreign situation, but told them also to take full ad-
vantage of the opportunities placed before them in Lex-
ington without becoming too engrossed in affairs that
transpired abroad.

The opening assembly was the highlight of the first
week’s activities, which were brought to a close Satur-
day evening, September 17, with receptions in Lexing-
ton churches for the new students.

ee

Five new faculty members, a new librarian and a di-
rector of religious work were added to the university's
staff this year.

John G. Varner assumed his duties as director of
music and instructor in English. As musical director he
has charge of the Glee Club and the Washington and Lee
Band, which made a particularly impressive appearance
in striking new blue and white uniforms at football games
this fall. Varner, a native of Texas, came to Washington
and Lee after eight years at the University of Virginia,

where he ‘taught English, was associate director of the
Glee Club and was organist and choir master at St. Paul’s
Church. He studied music in Texas and New York and
spent one semester at Heidelberg.

Foster E. Mohrhardt, the new librarian, formerly was
with Columbia University and formerly was assistant to
the chairman of the advisory group on college libraries of
the Carnegie Corporation. His library experience includes
work at the University of Michigan and he has done grad-
uate work at New York University and Columbia and
holds a certificate from the University of Munich.

Harry M. Philpott, class of 1938, as director of re-
ligious work assumed full charge of this phase of stu-
dent life. .

New professors are Rowland Nelson, assistant pro-
fessor of English, who formerly was at Northwestern
and the University of North Carolina; George Smith, in-
structor in Economics and Modern Civilization; John T.
Masten, instructor in Commerce and Economics; and
Thomas E. Lothery, Jr., instructor in Physics.

Two members of the faculty, John Higgins Williams,
assistant professor of Political Science, and Earl K. Pax-
ton, associate professor of Mathematics, returned this fall
from leaves of absence.

Faculty members on leave this year include R. Win-
ter Royston, assistant professor of Mathematics; Louis
K. Johnson, assistant professor of Business Administra-
tion: and Donald F. Martin, assistant professor of Eco-
nomics.

—

Thirty-nine states and ten places outside America are
represented in the Washington and Lee student body this
year. There are 214 students who live in V irginia; 97
from New York; 64 from Kentucky; 35 from Florida;
44 from Illinois; 40 from Pennsylvania; 67 from New
Jersey.

Two students from Canada are enrolled for the ses-
sion. There is one each from Belgium, the Canal Zone,
China, Germany, Hawaii, Holland, Mexico, Peru and
Porto Rico. The enrollment figures again testify, it was
pointed out, that Washington and Lee has perhaps the
most cosmopolitan student body in the United States.

 

The Cover This Month

There is a “new view” on the cover of your ALUMNI
MacaziNE this month. If you are one of those who have
not been back since the remodeling program was com-
pleted, perhaps you do not even recognize the scene. It is
the back walk of the campus, looking in the direction of
Washington College and the Law School from the rear
of Newcomb Hall.

[6]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

(teaeal

One of the old landmarks of Lexington disappeared with the tearing down of the pool room on the corner of Washington

and Jefferson Streets, diagonally across from the Dutch Inn. The above photograph shows the old wooden building being de-

molished by wreckers. The inset is Billy Higgins (or “Willy” Higgins, you may have called him) well known to alumni dur-
ing his 22 years at the place, once a student hangout.

A Lexington “Landmark” Is Torn Down

OU'RE AN ALUMNUS, of course, or you probably would
Va be reading the Washington and Lee ALUMNI!
MacazineE. And as an alumnus you frequently sit down
and dream about the old spots you knew in Lexington.
Or perhaps while you’re singing in the bath, or shaving,
you think of the good times you had at the old hangouts
back in the day when you were in college.

Well, one of those old hangouts is gone. If the pun
were not so old, it might even be said that one of those
old hangouts has gone with the wind, although that is not
literally true. Yet the place did almost catch fire one night
a few weeks ago before they started tearing it down.

It’s the old pool room, of course.

Perhaps you knew it as “Johnny LaRowe’s Place,”
or as “The Annex” or just called it “the pool room.”
Anyway, it’s one and the same, no matter whether you

as a student at Washington and Lee either walked by,
dropped in for a game of pool or met somebody there be-
tween classes. Call it what you like—the rambling old
wooden building just diagonally across the street from the
Dutch Inn; right across from one of the McCoy grocery
stores in more recent years; technically, on the corner of
Washington Street.

Remember ? Of course you remember.

Then, if you think back far enough, you'll also remem-
ber Billy Higgins, who used to preside over the place be-
fore the automobiles came to the valley in numbers and
the students began travelling more ; before the drug stores
became the hangouts.

“T was there from 1901 to 1923,” Billy Higgins said,
“and back in those days the place was the meeting place
for students. There just wasn’t any other spot that was

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

quite as convenient as a meeting place between classes or
after classes.”

Think way back now, and you'll remember that Johnny
‘LaRowe, now the University of Virginia’s famous box-
ing coach, was proprietor of the place right after the turn
of the century. Billy Higgins (you remember him now,
don’t you? Well, he is just as genial as ever) told about
LaRowe the other day.

Higgins said he went there to work with LaRowe,
and stayed there with him for five years, until LaRowe
went across the Blue Ridge to Charlottesville. When La-
Rowe left, Higgins stayed on and on yntil 1923. He re-
called that after the now-famous coach was gone, the spot
was known as the “Lexington Pool Company.”

The place was most popular as a hangout from about
1907 until the days of the World War, Higgins recalled.

“They were nice boys, too. It was fun to know them.
I frequently see some boy in Lexington now and ask him
his name, and before he tells me I see his resemblance to
his father. And of course, I knew his father here.”

“Should be some good stories about the old place now
that they’ve torn it down?” he was asked.

Higgins laughed heartily. “Some pretty good stories,
but I won’t tell them because the fathers might not like
for the sons to hear them,” he said. “But they were nice
fellows,” he added, sincerely. Higgins now is money order
and registry clerk at the Lexington postoffice.

If you want to go even further back in your memor-
ies, you'll recall—some of you—that a little store up the
hill on Main Street from the pool room was once a stu-
dent hangout. That store was “The Only Dold’s.” It
hasn’t been a student gathering place for decades, but the
store is still there.

Several years ago the University acquired the pool
room property as part of a plan to encompass the campus
area within the campus itself.

The site will be landscaped for the present. Old resi-
dents of Lexington recall that the spring on the lot once
supplied the town with much of its water, and that after
that it was a watering place for the horses until the ma-
chine age arrived.

 

From an Alumnus of 1867

ALUMNI in the deep south and in the west will be
particularly interested in the following excerpts from a
letter from John Flournoy Ponder, 270 South Alexandria
Avenue, Los Angeles, California. Mr. Ponder, a member
of the class of 1867, says:

“T will state that I was born on one of my father’s
plantations near Montgomery, Alabama, on the 9th of
December, 1847; moving to Montgomery in 1856, he
bought one-half of a city block, highly improved with

trained shrubbery, fruits, flowers and an eleven-room
house, which now belongs to Governor Bibb Graves of
Alabama, if he has not sold it since 1922, when I was at
his home.

“In the summer and fall of 1856, I visited my Grand-
father John Borders near Oxford in Calhoun County. He
was born in 1779, one hundred and fifty-nine years ago,
as you will note. After the Civil War, I visited him again
and had long talks with him about past history. I suppose
there is not one man in a hundred, yes even five hundred
thousand, that can go as far back into direct history as
well as I can. In the summer and fall as a lively young-
ster, I attended political meetings and heard speeches and
amusing things that happened. I remember better the
things that happened at those meetings, than any conven-
tion that I have attended in the last ten years.

“In February, 1861, along with my comrades in a lit-
tle cadet corps of about seventy members, acted as Hon-
orary Guard to President Davis and his Cabinet when
Alabama seceded from the Union. I was a student at the
State University at Tuscaloosa in April, 1865. About one
o'clock on a very dark night was in a hot fight with Crox-
ton’s Brigade of Wilson’s Raiders. Finding out that we
were overwhelmingly outnumbered and that the enemy
were armed with breech-loading rifles, while we had only
the old muzzle-loading Springfield rifles, we left town as
soon as possible.

“T was in Mobile standing off Farragut from taking
the city in 1864. Taking interest in politics, I have reason
to believe that I am the only survivor of a secret political
party that changed the government of the State of Ala-
bama, throwing out the “carpet-baggers” and scalawags ;
the Democratic vote was never changed until Hoover car-
ried it in 1928.

“T’ll state that I came to Los Angeles in 1875, and with
the exception of about five years, have lived in Los An-
geles and the State of California ever since. When I came
here in July, 1875, Los Angeles had a population of about
7,500 people. I am told by insurance companies that ac-
cording to the mortality rate, out of that number hardly
300 are living in the city now. I took out an insurance
policy—ordinary life policy—upon the advice of our State
Insurance Commissioner, in 1886, and have been paying
on it ever since. I have often wondered if the Insurance
Commissioner was a particular friend of the Pacific Mu-
tual Life Insurance Company.

“Enclosed please find a Postoffice Order for $5.00 to
aid our dear old Alma Mater in still spreading the light.”’

 

GrorcGE N. DANIELSON of St. Paul, Minnesota, ac-
companied by his wife and four-year-old daughter, Vir-
ginia, stopped at the Alumni Office recently for a short
visit. He is a member of the law class of 1917,

[8]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Generals Run the Legion

tae is slight—if any—analogy between a football
team—this being the gridiron season—and the Amer-
ican Legion, but it can be assumed that three men as
Washington and Lee alumni might properly be called
“Generals” without a glance at their collegiate athletic
records and that as such they have “taken over” in the
Legion.

It came about this way :

At the twentieth annual national convention of the
war veterans in Los Angeles in September these three
Washington and Lee alumni were elected to important
executive posts. Stephen F. Chadwick of Seattle, LL.B.
1914, was named na-
tional commander by
acclamation ; Charles W.
Crush of Christians-
burg, Virginia, Chad-
wick’s classmate at
Washington and
was elected one of the
five vice-commanders
without opposition ; and

Lee,

Adrian Boyd, class of
1917, named na-
tional executive com-
mitteeman for the state

Was

of Mississippi.

There undoubtedly
are other Washington
and Lee men high in
l.egion circles in the va-
rious states. A telegram
to Dr. Francis P. Gaines
calling attention to the
election of Chadwick
and Crush came, for in-
stance, from Fred C.
Parks, 1921,
who is department com-

class of

mander for Virginia.
Chad-

wick has made a distin-

Stephen F.

guished name for him-
self in the American
legion through nearly
two decades of out-
standing service mark-

ed by qualities of lead-

 

Stephen F. Chadwick, 1914
[9]

ership recognized by his post, his department and the
national organization. For the last six years he has played
an important part in shaping the Americanism program
of the Legion. The records show also that it was under
his direction that the American Legion has expanded the
Boys’ State movement into a nation-wide youth training
activity to prepare the nation’s boyhood for the duties of
American citizenship.

Chadwick became affiliated with the American Legion
immediately upon receiving his honorable discharge in
May, 1919, as first lieutenant of the 27th United States
Infantry, following service with the American Expedi-
tionary Forces in Si-
beria. He joined Seat-
tle Post No. 18 and was,
in turn, post chaplain,
vice-commander and
commander. He served
as a member of the de-
partment executive com-
mittee, 1920-1921; as
National Judge Advo-
cate of the Forty and
Eight, 1922-1923; Chef
de Gare of the King
County Voiture, Forty
and Eight, 1924-1925;
as a member of the Na-
tional Executive Com-
mittee from Washing-
ton, 1927-1929, and was
appointed a member of
the National American-
ism Commission in 1930,
He has held that mem-
bership since. In No-
1935, he
named chairman of the

vember, was
Commission by Ray
Murphy, then National
Commander. His record
in this capacity was so
brilliant that both Harry
W. Colmery and Daniel
Doherty, who succeeded
Murphy as National
commanders,
(Continued on page 11)

reap-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Corporation Court Judge

HERBERT GROOME SMITH, graduate of the law school
of Washington and Lee University in the class of 1917,
was sworn in as judge of the Corporation Court of New-
port News, Virginia,
on September 1, fol-
lowing his appoint-
ment by Governor
James H. Price.

Mr. Smith was ten-
dered the oath of of-
fice by Asociate Justice
Vernon Spratley of
the Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals at
ceremonies in the Mu-
nicipal Courts Build-
ing at Newport News.
Present were members
of the Newport News
and Hampton bar and
other friends of the
jurist.

Judge Smith at-
tended the University
from September, 1914,
until June, 1917, when Martin P. Burks was Dean of the
Law School. He was a member of Alpha Chi Rho social
fraternity and Delta Theta Phi legal fraternity.

Graduating from Law School, he began practice at
Newport News, then went overseas to serve until the
Armistice was signed. Returning to practice in 1918, he
was elected in 1924 as commonwealth’s attorney, in which
capacity he was retained by the electorate until his eleva-
tion to the judgeship. At 43 he is one of the youngest
corporation court judges in Virginia.

He married the former Miss Allene Sinton of New-
port News and they have two sons.

 

Herbert G. Smith

 

EMERSON DiIcKMAN, recent Washington and Lee
pitching ace (1936) for Dick Smith’s Generals of the
diamond, had a fling at the big leagues this year as a
member of the hurling staff of the Boston Red Sox.
James Bagley, International New Service sports writer,
during the season called him the “outstanding rookie” on
the Red Sox staff.

 

THorton W. ALLEN, class of 1913, has just pub-
lished a folio of popular college songs, favorites of the
“campus, radio and football field.” Washington and Lee
is represented in the folio, compiled-and arranged by
Allen, by “College Friendships.”

Internal Revenue Expert

Extpon P. Kine, class of 1920 (law), as Special
Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Internal Revenue,
Washington, has—to put it in his own words—‘‘quite a
variety of duties.’’ But as a general assistant to the com-
missioner, who heads a bureau of some 25,000 employes,
he has been given some assignments that stamp him defi-
nitely as one of Washington’s most capable men.

King was designated in 1934 as one of a commission
of three sent to Great Britain to study the British tax
system. Then, in 1935 and 1936, he was designated to at-
tend meetings of the Fiscal Committee of the League of
Nations.

During the past summer, King as Special Deputy
Commissioner of Internal Revenue was one of three men
who were assigned to represent the United States in tax
discussions with a delegation from The Netherlands.

 

Hearon Takes New Job

Fanninc Hearon, A.B., 1927, has resigned as direc-
tor of the Division of Motion Pictures of the United
States Department of the Interior in Washington to ac-
cept the directorship of a new motion picture corporation
known as the Association of School Film Libraries. The
organization is a project of the General Education Board
(a Rockefeller foundation) with its main offices in the
Time and Life Building, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York.

Hearon went to Washington in 1934 as a Department
of Interior press representative and in 1936 was appointed

head of its film unit by Secretary Ickes. Just before re-
‘sighing on July 15 he had been on official leave of ab-

sence for three months to write, produce and direct the
film “In Defense of Capitalism,” the book on economics
by James H. R. Cromwell.

 

Dr. Lewis E. JARRETT, class of 1923, superintendent
of the hospital division of the Medical College of Vir-
ginia, Richmond, Virginia, has been appointed to the
newly-created council on hospital care insurance of the
American Hospital Association. He is a former president
of the Virginia Hospital Association and is third vice-
president of the national association.

 

Russ PritcHarD, class of 1932, was elected president
of the Memphis Cotton Carnival Association for next
year. His election was unanimous and had been forecast
shortly after the May festival ended. Pritchard, twenty-
eight years old and a native of Memphis, is associated
with Marx & Bensdorf. He has been active in the Cotton
Festival for some six years and is a former vice-president
and treasurer of the Association.

[10]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Generals Run the Legion

(Continued from page 9)

pointed Chadwick as chairman of the commission. Chad-
wick also has served on numerous other post, department

and national committees. He holds the unusual record of

having attended all but one convention of his department
as a delegate, and of
having attended nine
national conventions of
the American Legion.

Chadwick enrolled
in the citizens’ training
camp at Fort Lawton,
Washington, shortly
after war was declared.
Completing the course
there he entered the Sec-
ond Officers’ Training
Camp at the Presidio,
San Francisco, in Au-
gust, 1917,and was com-
missioned a first lieu-
tenant of infantry in
November, 1917. He
was attached to the
Y1st Division at Camp
Lewis, Washington,
from December, 1917,
to April, 1918. Then he
was assigned to Com-
pany D, 8th Infantry,
8th Division, at Camp
Fremont, California.
Four months later he
was transferred to the
27th U. S. Infantry
composing part of the
American Expedition-
ary Forces to Siberia.
He served as command-
ing officer of the troops
on the first movement of 1,900 United States soldiers
from San Francisco to Vladivostok. Overseas he served
as company officer, battalion adjutant and personnel ad-
jutant, returning to the United States in May, 1919.

Chadwick was born at Colfax, Washington, August
14, 1894. He attended Olympia High School at Olympia,
Washington, then went East to take his LL.B. degree at
Washington and Lee University in 1914, to be followed
with a similar degree in 1915 at the University of Wash-

 

Charles W. Crush

ington at Seattle. He has practiced law in Seattle contin-
uously since 1915, with the exception of the time he spent
in the military service of his country.

Two months after his discharge from military ser-
vice, Chadwick married
Miss Margaret Gard-
iner Tyler, daughter of
Judge David Gardiner
Tyler of Charles City,
Virginia. Mrs. Chad-
wick is a granddaughter
of John Tyler, the tenth
president of the United
States. The Chadwicks
now have two children,
Mary Tyler, born May
5, 1921, and Stephen
Fowler, born October

20, 1924.

Chadwick has play-
ed a prominent part in
the civic affairs of Se-
attle. He was a member
in 1926 of the Freehold-
ers Charter Commission
to draft a proposed
charter for the City of
Seattle. He is a trustee
of the Seattle Chamber
of Commerce, and was
vice - president of this
body during 1935-1937.
The seattle Daily Jour-
nal of Commerce in a
leading editorial recent-
ly described Chadwick
as “one of the most
popular men in the city
and state’ and added
that “his name is invariably coupled with constructive
movements for the good of the general public.”

At Washington and Lee, Chadwick was a member of
Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Phi, White Friars, and rowed
with the Harry Lee crew.

Charles W. Crush of Christiansburg was graduated
from high school as a member of the class of 1909. His
collegiate work was done in Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, where he spent three years as a law student, being

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

admitted to the bar in 1915. He then began his law prac-
tice at Christiansburg, where he has followed his pro-
fession for twenty-three years excepting his service with
the Army. He enlisted in November, 1917, and was as-
signed to the 314th Machine Gun Battalion. He went
overseas in May, 1918, and served with that command in
the Artois sector, in the St. Mihiel drive and the Meuse-
Argonne offensive. In June, 1919, he returned to this
country and was discharged on the nineteenth of that
month. For a year he attended the University of Texas,
where he studied law before resuming his practice in
Christiansburg. He has since followed his profession in
his native city.

Crush is active as a Democratic worker. He was
elected commonwealth’s attorney of Montgomery County
in 1923, occupying that position until January 1, 1936.
On August 1, next, he took charge of the postoffice as an
acting postmaster and received his commission Feb-
ruary 20, 1937. He attends the Democratic state con-
ventions and was a member of the constitutional con-
vention of 1933; at the national convention in Chicago in
1932 he acted as doorkeeper. His military training has
also been brought into play in connection with public
office ; he was a first lieutenant of the Coast Artillery of
the Virginia National Guard on the staff of Governor
John Garland Pollard, and also on the staff of Governor
George C. Peery. He held membership with the 246th
Coast Artillery of the Virginia National Guard from 1925
until 1936, joining with the rank of second lieutenant and
winning promotion to the first lieutenancy.

On May 1, 1924, Crush married Eliza Allen, daugh-
ter of Jefferson Clay and Florence (Richardson) Allen
of Christiansburg. Mr. and Mrs. Crush have one child,
Jane Allen.

Crush belongs to the Presbyterian Church and is a
Knights Templar Mason and a member of Kazim Tem-
ple of the Mystic Shrine at Roanoke. He is also a mem-
ber of the Loyal Order of Moose and the Benevolent and
Protective Order of Elks at Pulaski, Virginia, and as a
prominent member of the American Legion served in
1936-1937 as state commander.

He organized and is now secretary of the Legion of
Virginia Counties and is secretary of the consolidated
almshouse known as Fairview Home.

Adrian Boyd formerly was commander of the Amer-
ican Legion in Mississippi. At Washington and Lee, he
was a Kappa Sigma, and belonged to the Cotillion Club,
13” Club, Sigma and P. A. N. His home is at Clarksdale.

 

Paul Whiteman and his orchestra played for opening
dances at Washington and Lee October 14 and 15. The
dances followed the usual program, the Sophomore Prom
Friday evening, and the Cotillion Club Formal Saturday.

News Photography Conference

A News PHOTOGRAPHY CONFERENCE will be held on
January 5, 6, and 7, 1939, at Washington and Lee. Spon-
sors are the Virginia Press Association and the Lee Jour-
nalism Foundation of Washington and Lee University,
with the Washington and Lee Camera Club cooperating.

The object of the conference is to present new and
improved techniques in photo-journalism from the taking
of the picture to engraving and press reproduction. Lead-
ing experts in the country will give lectures and conduct
demonstrations.

Designed for practical usefulness to news photog-
raphers, art editors, engravers and pressmen on news-
papers in the Middle Atlantic and Southern states, the
program will include discussions of such subjects as the
following : photographic equipment, developing and print-
ing techniques, color photography, lighting, picture trans-
mission by wire, editing pictures, making layouts, law and
ethics of news photography, working conditions, free
lance news photography, retouching pictures, engraving
equipment and techniques, and press work.

Other special features of the conference will be equip-
ment exhibitions, darkroom instruction, and special train-
ing sections for beginners. Large newspapers, photo-
graphic supply houses and picture magazines are cooper-
ating in arranging special features. There will also be
three news photo contests for newspaper photographers
in Virginia and the South, with cash prizes.

Members of the conference advistory committee are
Major Raymond B. Bottom, Newport News publisher
and Virginia Press Association president; Samuel R.
Ames, president of the Washington and Lee Camera
Club ;-Charles Borjes, The Virginian-Pilot, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia; Frank Dementi, The News Leader, Richmond,
Virginia; Leon S. Dure, The Times-Dispatch, Richmond,
Virginia; Tom Hanes, The Ledger-Dispatch, Norfolk,
Virginia; Jake Houston, The Charlotte Observer, Char-
lotte, North Carolina; Lon H. Hutchison, The Charleston
Gazette, Charleston, West Virginia; Lambert Martin,
The W orld-News, Roanoke, Virginia; Hugh Miller, The
Post, Washington, D. C.; Robert F. Nelson, State Cham-
ber of Commerce, Richmond, Virginia; Vernon C. Sher-
win, The Evening Sun, Baltimore, Maryland; Robert B.
Smith, Virginia Press Association, Newport News, Vir-
ginia; W. C. Stouffer, The World-News, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia; Paul Titlow, The Gaszette-Journal, Gloucester-
Mathews, Virginia.

 

Homecoming Day (don’t forget) is October 22. The
Generals will meet Virginia Tech’s Gobblers on Wilson
Field at 2:30. A freshman game between the Brigadiers
and Maryland is scheduled Friday afternoon, October 21.

[12]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Some W & L Men In Medicine

The following Washington and Iee alumni are listed
in the Johns Hopkins Medical Directory—September,

1938:

ANDERSON, 8. A., JR., W. & L. 719
Assoc. in Pediatrics, Med. Coll. Va.
Specialty Ped.

2326 W. Grace St., Richmond, Va.

BaNKs, Horack McMurran, W. & L. 713
Inst. Pathology Indiana Univ. Sch. Med.
Director Clinical Labs. Methodist Mosp.
Specialty Clin. Path.

3631 Forrest Manor Ave., Indianapolis, Ind.

BATTEN, GROVER A., W. & L., ’05
Staff, Queens Hosp., Kapiolani Hosp., St. Francis

Hosp.
Spec. Surgery
735 Bishop St., Honolulu, Hawaii

BayLor, JOHN Warp, W. & L. *14

Assoc. in Laryngology & Otolaryngology, Johns
Hopkins
906 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md.

CRAIG, ROBERT GLENN, W. & L. 7°17
Asst. Prof. gyn., Stanford Univ.

Spec. Gynecology & Urology
490 Post St., San Francisco, Calif.

CRAWFORD, FRANCIS RANDOLPH, W. & L. ’06
Sug. Staff, South Side Comm. Hosp.

Spec. Surg. and Gynecology
907 High St., Farmville, Va.

Davipson, HERMAN Porter, W. & L. °13
Staff, Chicago Memorial Hospital
Spec. Ophthalmology
30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, II].

ELcin, WILLIAM WorcEsTErR, W. & L,. °25
Asst. Phys. Sheppard & Enoch Pratt Hosp.
Towson, Md.

Forsus, WiLEy Davis, W. & L. 716
Prof. Pathology & Head Dept. Duke Univ. Med.
Spec. Path.

Duke Hosp., Durham, N. C.

GROOVER, GORDON LEwis, Jr., W. & L. 712

U. S. Veterans Adm., Arlington Bldg., Washington,
a.

Hacan, Hucu Jounson, W. & L. ’10
Spec. Internal Med.

703 Ist St., S. W., Roanoke, Va.

HAINES, JOHN SuMMER, W. & L,. ’34
Interne, Johns Hopkins Hosp., Baltimore, Md.
HANDLEY, Harry Epwin, W. & L. 719
Asst. Dir. Div. Public Health (‘The Commonwealth
Fund, New York City)
_ Spec. Public Health
18 Idlewood Rd., White Plains, N. Y.
Harvey, ABNER McCGEHEE, W. & L. ’30
Fellow Nat'l. Inst. Med. Research
Spec. Int. Med.
National Inst. for Med. Research, Hampstead, Lon-
don N. W. 3, England
Hoop, Rosr. C., W. & L. 712
Dir. Crippled Children’s Div., Children’s Bureau
U.S. Dept. of Labor
Spec. Pediatrics
Care same, Washington, D. C.

LArirD, THos. Kerr, W. & L,. 33
Interne, Laird Mem. Hosp., Montgomery, W. Va.
LEE, Henry, W. & L. ’26

Spec. Surg.
806 Med. Arts Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

McCown, ALBErt SmitH, W. & L. 710
Student, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene
School of Hygiene & Public Health, Johns Hopkins
Univ., Baltimore, Md.

Moore, CHALMERS Hate, W. & L., ’09
Chief Dept. Neurological Surg., Hillman Hosp.
Staff Children’s, St. Vincents
1023 S. 20th St., Birmingham, Ala.

NEEL, Harry Bryan, W. & L. ’28
Fellow in Surg., Mayo Foundation
Spec. Surg.
Care Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.
PRITCHETT, CHAS. BERNARD, W. & L. 712
2801 Washington Ave., Newport News, Va.

RENNIE, JOHN Gorpon, W. & L. ’28
502 Allison Ave., Roanoke, Va.

Rick, Keira CuHiLton, W. & L. ’17
Instr. Surg. Emory Univ. Med. Sch.
Spec. Surg.
310 Med. Arts Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.
SCHAEFER, SOLOMON WEINSCHENK, W. & L. ’04
Attend. Phys. Glocker Hosp. Free Tbe. Clinic

Assoc. Research Dir., Col. Foundation for Research
in The.

[13]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Spec. Int. Med.
319 Burns Bldg., Colorado Springs, Colorado

SHEPPARD, Wm. Bostwick, Jr., W. & L. °31
619 N. Palafox St., Pensacola, Fla.

SmitrH, RANDOLPH TucKErR, W. & L. 731
Assoc. Prof. Surg., U. of Ark. Med. Sch.
703 Donaghey Bldg., Little Rock, Ark.

SPENCE, JOHN MoreELAnp, Jr., W. & L. ’28
Instr. Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins
2742 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Md.

SPENGLER, LUTHER CAMPBELL, JR., W. & L. ’29
Spec. Urology, Jefferson Hosp., Roanoke Hosp.
Medical Arts Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

SYDENSTRICKER, VIRGIL Preston, W. & L. ‘10
Prof. Med. U. of Ga. Sch. Med.

Spec. Int. Med.
2110 Gardner St., Augusta, Ga.

Wituiams, Rost. Harpin, W. & LL. °29
Res. in Med., Vanderbilt Univ. Hosp.

Spec. Int. Med.
Vanderbilt Univ. Hosp., Nashville, Tenn.

 

Sixty-Seven on Honor Roll

Sixty-seven students have been placed on the aca-
demic honor roll at Washington and Lee University for
this semester. Of this number, seventeen men made all
A’s. Honor roll requires an average of 90 or above, with
no grade below B. Honor roll men are:

J. G. Akin, Jr., of Bowling Green, K. (all A’s) ; A. W.
Archer, Jr., of Kansas City, Mo.; G. C. Baldwin, Jr., of
Paris, Ky.; J. C. Bear of Montgomery, Ala.; A. T.
Bishop, Jr., of Louisville, Ky.; W. W. Brown of Toledo,
Ohio (all A’s); W. L. Burner, Jr., of Warren, Ohio
(all A’s); E. F. Burrows of Oswego, S. C. (all A’s);
C. F. Clarke, Jr., of Coldwater, Mich; W. A. Clary of
Valentines, Va.; J. B. Cleveland of Spartanburg, Soke 2s
Rk. B. Espy of Dothan, Ala.; A. D. Farber of Brooklyn,
N. Y.: A. T. Fleishman of Anderson, S. C.; R. H. Gaddy
of Latta, S. C. (all A’s) ; Z. H. Garfield of Norfolk, Va. ;
S. C. Gholson of Holly Springs, Miss.; G. M. Grasty of
New Castle, Va.; A. F. Hancock of Mobile, Ala.; L. B.
Hanes of Roanoke, Va. (all A’s); E. W. Heatwole of
Hagerstown, Md.; J. S. Henderson, Jr., of Reisterstown,
Md.: R. M. Herndon of Haverford, Pa.; W. H. Hillier
of East Lansing, Mich.; R. W. Hilton, Jr., of Cincinnati,
Ohio: N. T. Houston of Carrolton, Mo. (all A’s).

E. E. Hunter, Jr., of Wilmington, N. C.; G. W.
James, III, of Richmond, Va.; A. D. Jamieson, Jr., of
Detroit, Mich. (all A’s); M. T. Kelsey of Catasauqua,
Pa. (all A’s) ; L. M. Kenna of Charleston, W. Va.; J. FE.
Koban of Johnstown, Pa.; A. R. Larrick, Jr., of Plant
City, Fla.; B. R. Lawton of Washington, D. C.; G. M.

Lively of Mattoon, Ill.; L. H. Lord of Woodberry For-
est, Va.; H. R. McGehee of Reidsville, N. C. (all A’s) ;
H. E. McLaughlin of Pensacola, Fla.; M. H. Many of
New Orleans, La.; E. J. Milligan of Dansville, N. Y.;
P. G. Morrison, Jr., of Chicago, Ill. (all A’s); J. R.
Nicholson, Jr., of Spangler, Pa.; R. A. Nicholson of
Wheaton, IIl.; R. C. Perry of Tazewell, Va.; H. M. Phil-
pott of Lexington, N. C.; A. A. Pollack of New York,
N. Y.; C. A. Prater of Chattanooga, Tenn. (all A’s).

J. D. Raymond of New Rochelle, N. Y.; T. H. Riggs
of El Paso, Texas (all A’s); W. J. Ritz of Conklin,
Mich. (all A’s); H. W. Roberts, Jr., of Garden City,
N. Y.; L. J. Roberts, Jr., of Newnan, Ga.; E. A. Sar-
tor, Jr., of Shreveport, La. (all A’s) ; C. Schept of Union
City, N. J.; R. P. Schlabach, Jr., of Newport News, Va.
(all A’s); E. F. Shannon, Jr., of Lexington, Va.
(all A’s); W. L. Shannon of Shelbyville, Ky.; M. T.
Simon of Natchez, Miss.; G. M. Smith, Jr., of Richmond,
Ky.; J. D. Sterrett, Jr., of Lexington, Va.

J. A. R. Stewart of Independence, Kansas; A. P.
Stuart of Buena Vista, Va.; B. M. Wakefield, Jr., of
Jackson, Miss.; D. N. Walker of Richmond, Va.; L. D.
Williams, Jr., of Elizabeth, N. J.; H. M. Woodward,
Jr., of Norfolk, Va.; P. K. Yonge of Pensacola, Florida.

 

Birnie Goes to Georgia Bank

JosepH E. Birnie, 1925, of Richmond and Washing-
ton, executive secretary and treasurer of the Morris Plan
Bankers’ Association, has been elected vice-president and
a director of the Morris Plan Bank of Georgia, at At-
lanta. The bank, organized in 1911, is the second oldest
Morris Plan bank in America. Birnie’s election became
effective on August 15, on which date he began his new
duties.

Birnie was for several years an officer of the Morris
Plan Bank of Virginia at Richmond, and also for a while
at Petersburg, resigning his connection with that bank in
1933 to become Secretary of the Morris Plan Bankers’
Association, the national organization through which the
activities of Morris Plan banks throughout the United
States are coordinated. He is the author of numerous ar-
ticles and papers on banking subjects, and is a member
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Omicron Delta Kappa, the Com-
monwealth Club of Richmond, and the Country Club of
Virginia.

 

Birnie Harper, Jr., of Fort Smith, Arkansas, has
been elected president of the 1939 Finals at Washington
and Lee. The election was made by the student executive
committee to fill a vacancy created by failure of the Finals
head to return to school this fall. Harper, an end on the
football team, is president of the Monogram Club.

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Homecoming and Football—Synonymous!

By L&a Booru, 1940
Student Assistant, Washington and Lee News Bureau

new autumn football game attire, natural-tinted
leaves blowing in the brisk winds that whip across the
campus from North Mountain, a general activity in every
corner of Lexington and Washington and Lee
give the alumnus and undergraduate a
sort of Homecoming feeling. But the

| aad aie pats on the back, lovely girls in their

 

all go to

variety of thrills have only one univer-
sal climax. When alumni and students
all mobilize for one long, concerted
cheer at 2:30 p. m., October 22, then
we know it’s “Old Home Week.”’ That's
the moment when Captain Bill Brown
leads his General football team into
action against V. P. I.’s Gobblers. Here
is where the really genuine thrill is in-
volved. All Washington and Lee men
are pulling the same way, undergrad-
uates and old men intermingle to fight
a common cause ‘Beat
Gobblers.”’

 

and Those
Curiosity may be just as much a
motive for returning alumni as spirit,
and no doubt, the rather curious alum-
nus will find plenty of surprises in
store for him when he re-visits Wilson
Field on the twenty-second. A
football system, new faces in the line-
up, a new university band, and scores of other, less dras-
tic, changes will greet him.

new

Taking them in the order of their appearance on the
stage, first the “old man” will see a greater University
band, swathed in brilliant new capes and caps, and be-
lieve us, producing some first-class music. Bands have
come and bands have gone at Washington and Lee in the
past several decades but now under the new music direc-
tor, John G. Varner, Washington and Lee men have a
musical outfit that is really worth telling the family about.

More than forty immaculate blue and white uniformed
musicians will parade on Wilson field on the twenty-
second for the approval of homecoming alumni. Already
proclaimed the best collegiate band in the state, there is
an air of permanence about this new band. They are ap-
parently here to stay this time.

The other innovations, or perhaps renovations, to be

 

Captain Bill Brown, Guard

noticed will only be evident to a slightly more keen ob-
server. These changes directly involve the 1938 football
squad in which Coach Tex Tilson has installed a system
completely novel to this institution.

In the first place, the offensive system now calls for a
precision shift. The old single-wingback
offensive has been supplanted by this
modified Warner system which calls
for a trim-looking shift in the midst of
the execution of plays. Linemen snap
briskly out of their huddle, the center
is already over the ball, and backs align
themselves about a yard to the rear.
The shift is called and the men slide
into their slots, whether it be balanced
or unbalanced formation.

It will probably be about midway
of the first quarter when alumni start
commenting on the fact that the signal-
caller (Cap'n Brown) is literally work-
ing one poor back to death on the of-
fensive. There is no need for undue

 

alarm—that’s the new “climax runner”
offensive system.

Under the system, one man who has
the capacity for almost any type of of-
fensive work, running, passing and
kicking (triple-threat preferred), will
do practically all the work while he is in the game. Truth
apparent, he won't be in the ball game long—no man
could take it like that for sixty minutes of football. The
idea is to run this man in the tailback position for ap-
proximately a quarter and then insert someone else to
bear the brunt when the first man is exhausted or becomes
ineffective due to the other eleven’s cunning.

Sports writers have adeptly picked up the term “Til-
son's climax runner.”’ The other ten men on the field are
solely blockers, to clear the way on every play. The op-
position usually doesn’t know what to expect from this
climax man—he may run, he may pass, or he may cruise
back hurriedly for one of those effective quick kicks. In
fact, in the opening games, quick kicks have set the op-
position on their heels at the most unexpected times.

To fill this brutal assignment (it hasn’t proved unduly
stiff on any one man as yet), Coach Tilson has several

[15]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

highly capable ball handlers. In Harrison Hogan, a tow-
headed Michigan lad, there is one of the sweetest backs
in the conference. Hogan has been the team’s best ground
gainer so far this season. When he drops back, it may be
a running play with spinner or reverse attached, or he may
heave a long one down to sophomore Howard Dobbins,
the rangy Louisville, Kentucky, end. Hogan is also a
quick-kick artisan of the old school. A pair of impromptu
boots against Virginia put the rivals in hot water on both
occasions. Hogan, as it is said, can truly “carry the mail.”

Understudy to Hogan is little Dan Justice, a former
all-state scholastic quarterback from Lynchburg. Dan can
probably outkick Hogan, and his running and passing is
better than average.
Only a sophomore,
Justice drew a start-
ing assignment in the
crucial Virginia game
and served the pur-
pose admirably.

There is Ray
Craft, the squad’s
smoothest flipper,

 

who completed 10 of
15 passes against
Hampden-Sydney in
the season’s opener.
A sprained wrist put
the skids under
Craft’s aerial work
against the Cavaliers
but recovery means
the Gobblers will
have a W.P.A. proj-
ect on their hands in
breaking up the over-
head game. Craft is a senior and can likewise tuck the
ball under his arm and step across the stripes.

 

 

Joe Ochsie, Tackle

Ronnie Thompson, probably the only three-letter man
in school barring injuries during the season, is likewise a
triple-threat back who can fill the position. Ronnie is one
of the best basketball forwards in years and is the pride
and joy of Cap’n Dick’s infield at shortstop.

Roy Hogan, Harrison’s older brother, Don Dunlap,
a senior, and Bobby Gary are the other triple- or double-
threat backs.

Likewise running in starting assignments with the
younger Hogan and Craft, are Courtney Wadlington ‘and
Junie Bishop, two Kentucky sophs who really fill the good
doctor’s prescription for blocking and line-cracking. Wad-
lington, whose claim to fame was catching a pass for the
winning touchdown against Virginia’s well-backed frosh
in 1937, is considered the most dependable blocker since

many moons have shone over House Mountain. Bishop
has been jinxed by injuries all season, perhaps the re-
minder of an injury-ridden season in 1937. He does
75 per cent of the line plunging.

When the Generals take their stand against the Tech-
men at Homecoming, it is only probable that Dick Pinck,
the highly-publicized youngster from Paterson, New Jer-
sey, will be “one of the boys.’ Richard underwent a
hernia operation during the summer and a slow conva-
lescent period is expected to be concluded in time to war-
rant his use in the backfield. It is common knowledge that
Pinck, who honestly has that burning intensity which
signifies true football greatness, has the capacity for
sparking up the en-
tire General ignition
system. It has been
said that every time
this lad starts jog-
ging, there is the pos-
sibility of a score.
He can pass with un-
erring smoothness,
kicks well, and, well
—what else can any
back do?

The question
mark will come from
Pinck’s uncertain
ability to take the
rough places follow-
ing the summer op-
eration. Alumni will
be just as soon as
any to discover this
fact for themselves
because it is doubt-
ful if Pinck will be groomed before the Tech encounter.

 

 

 

 

Dick Boisseau, Tackle

The inside of the forward wall has been the least
worry of coaches so far. One qualified observer recently
asserted via Jimmy Jones’ column in the Richmond
Times-Dispatch: “Washington and Lee’s Brown, Bois-
seau, and Ochsie are three of the best linemen in the
country .. . Boisseau and Ochsie could play that position
(tackle) on anybody’s football team.”

Boisseau and Ochsie, both weighing 209 and stand-
ing six feet two inches, loom on the turf as virtual moun-
tains of power. Their consistency in smearing opponent’s
plays is remarkable. Both are rugged and can take it for
sixty minutes of football. Ochsie has set some sort of
record for his stamina since coming here. A senior, Joe,
a German boy from Paterson, New Jersey, has played
more sixty-minute games than anyone on the squad. Only
about once a season is he removed, and then only to give

[16]

1 Y J

Vy 1
f

s

‘

some other aspirant a chance “up front.’”’ When Ochsie
takes the field in the Homecoming tilt, he will be seeking
his third consecutive hour of action in Homecoming
games, while only recently he completed his fourth full
hour of work against Virginia’s Cavaliers. He has like-
wise gone the limit against such notable elevens as Ken-
tucky, West Virginia, Maryland and VY. P. I. ever since
taking a Blue and White jersey.

Captain Brown and Jim Lindsey, the contemporary
replica of the great Lindsey Moore, captain of 1920 and
1921, are holding down the guard posts. Brown is a
wizard diagnostician and a power under punts. His great-
est battle was waged against Virginia this season, draw-
ing down comments

(25/29 The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University .

Reserves in the forward wall come at a premium again
this year. This would not be the case if Tilson were able
to call upon the expected quota of men who valiantly bat-
tled Virginia Military Institute in spring drills last ses-
sion. Summer operations disabled Dorsey Wilson, a three
year veteran, and Jack Gillespie, a promising end. Gil-
lespie has never reported for work and Wilson’s handicap
puts a damper on his play. Kelly Litteral, a letterman
tackle who was expected to perform this season, has
never recovered sufficiently from an old injury and has
been of little use so far.

Qualified reserves in the line are Simmons Trueheart

and Bernie Harper, ends; Bill Keland and Fort Pipes,
tackles; and Finley

 

from the entire press
box. Lindsey, five
foot seven inches and
weighing 200 pounds,
is surprisingly the
speediest lineman on
the squad. He pulls
out of the line and
maneuvers an alert
interference on run-
ning plays and can
battle with the best
of them defensively.

 

 

The pivot posi-
tion has been cared
for by a pair of soph-
omores. Jack Man-
gan and Steve Hana-
sik are the accom-
plished “rookies” who
have vied in backing
up that substantial
Tilson-coached line and flipping the ball accurately to
the backs.

 

Howard Dobbins, End

The ends were the major problem at the opening of
the season. End Coach Bill Ellis was left high and dry
following the graduation of Frank Jones and long Bob
Spessard, and the failure of Bill Borries to return to
school. Going to work on Charlie Lykes, a center for three
years, and young Howard Dobbins, Ellis has developed a
handsome pair of flanks. Lykes is six feet two inches and
weighs 195, while “the Dobber’’ or “Old Dobbin” as he
is known, is six feet four inches and weighs an even 200.
Well built and speedy, Dobbins is a fleet pass receiver,
registering all seven points against Hampden-Sydney on
opening day. He converts the extra points through place-
ment. Lykes is a better defensive than offensive end.
Sweeps around his side of the line have netted practically
nothing for the opposition this season.

 

Walker, Shack Par-
rish, and Francis
Sugrue, guards. With
the recovery of Lit-
teral, Wilson, and
Pinck, alumni may
count on more than
a perfunctory sub-
stituting along the
line at Homecoming.

 

 

A keen disap-
pointment to follow-
ers was the failure
of the majority of
sophomores to return
this season. Only 19
of more than 40 fully-
equipped pigskin
pushers of the 1937
frosh aggregation re-
turned this fall. Some
of the neatest look-
ing prospects in years floated away with the winds that
annually reap a high output of collegiate football players.
Coach White has performed miracles with the functions
of the backs. Ellis has produced at least four serviceable
flankmen, and Tilson’s new system has injected an added
punch in the offensive. The shift is beautiful to witness,
with its timely precision and snappy, machine-like move-
ments. The climax runner is an additional warning to the
opposing defense to stay ever-elert, and the morale and
spirit of the club through insurmountable hardships and

 

Harrison Hogan, Back

disappointments occasioned by the loss of key men has
never dropped below the Washington and Lee standard.
Truly, there is another great surging line working for the
Generals this season—practically impervious to contin-
uous punching. There is an added zest to be noted in the
swiftness with which backfield men move forward on the
offense.

[17]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Miss Annie Jo White Dies

iss ANNIE JO WHITE, known and beloved by Wash-
ington and Lee students since before the turn of the
century, and the founder of the now-famous Fancy Dress

Ball, died at her home on
the campus at 9:51 p. m.
October 9. She was 85
years old.

‘Miss Annie,” as she
was known to everyone,
had been in failing health
for some time. She had
continued, however, to
attend Fancy Dress, al-
ways an honored guest.

Fancy Dress had its
inception as a small pri-
vate costume party given
by Miss Annie in 1907,
when she was Univer-
sity librarian. The idea
was a popular one, and
students took over the
dance.

“But I didn’t mind if
they took it right out of
my hands,” she said not
long ago, “because it’s
just as much fun and it’s
their dance.”

Expenses, so the story
goes, for the first ball
were only forty-two dol-
lars. In recent years, the
cost of putting on the an-
nual affair—now the best
known southern collegiate
social event—has run into
the thousands.

Even last January
when one of the most
elaborate of all Fancy
Dress balls was held in
Doremus Gymnasium,
Miss Annie attended.
Photographers swarmed
about her. Her picture
appeared in dozens of
newspapers, and in the

 

Miss Annie, photographed at Fancy Dress last January
[18]

series on Fancy Dress featured a few weeks later by Life
magazine. Miss Annie’s term of association with Wash-
ington and Lee was a long one. She was appointed to the

staff of the University
during the presidency of
General G. W. Custis
Lée, who succeeded his
father General Lee as
president of the institu-
tion. General Custis Lee
was president of Wash-
ington and Lee from 1871
to 1897,

Miss Annie held the
post of librarian for some
thirty years, relinquish-
ing it about the time of
the World War. She re-
mained active director of
Fancy Dress until about
the year 1920.

A search of the rec-
ords at Washington and
Lee showed that Miss
Annie actually was a
member of the Univer-
sity’s staff for twenty-
seven years. She was ap-
pointed a member in 1895,
serving until 1922.

Dr. Gaines said her
usefulness to the Univer-
sity “was extraordinary
in its service and dura-
tion,” and added that she
would be missed greatly
by the wide circle of
alumni who knew her,
and by her friends in
Rockbridge. She was a
native of Rockbridge
County.

Funeral services were
held at the Lexington
Presbyterian Church, Oc-
tober 11, and internment
was in the Lexington
cemetery.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1893

Captain Guy E. Mannine, U. S. Army, retired, is
living at 164 North Remington Road, Bexley, Columbus,
Ohio. He gives an interesting account of his experiences
in Cuba in the Spanish-American War.

HARRINGTON WaApDDELL, member of the University
Board of Trustees and of the Executive Committee of
that body, is Principal of the Lexington High School.

1894

Hucu M. Bratn, who was to be Class Agent for the
class of 1894 this year, was ill for several months and un-
able to undertake the job. He is reported much improved.
His address is 6112 Hurst Street, New Orleans, Louis-
lana.

1895

C. J. BoprE tt is in his fourteenth year as minister of
the West Side Presbyterian Church, Seattle, Washing-
ton. He is moderator of the Presbyterian Synod of Wash-
ington, conducting the Bible Mastery Campaign each Oc-
tober, which last year reached into forty-two states, three
provinces and five foreign lands, at least thirteen de-
nominations. Mr. Boppell was on the board of editors of
the first Calyx.

1896

H. G. REyNoxps, a physician of Paducah, Kentucky,
is president of the Kentucky State Medical
Association.

FRANK FAL Lon is in the florist business
in Roanoke, Virginia.

 

GLENN M. Brown has made a satis-
factory recovery from a long and serious ill-
ness. His address is 2020 Eye Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

1899 fle

A. B. WINFREE is a member of the law
firm of Teal, Winfree, McCulloch, Shuler
and Kelley, Spalding Building, Portland,

ee |

— .
At a2 r
wt oe Avene.
iin

Oregon. During the past winter Mr. Winfree and his
wife had an extended trip, leaving Portland in the middle
of November ; driving to San Francisco; shipped his car
to Acapulco, and drove from there to Mexico City, spend-
ing approximately two weeks in Mexico, then drove
through San Antonio, Houston, New Orleans, Pensacola,
Tallahassee, and St. Petersburg; thence across to Miami
Beach, where they spent a month and then up the Atlantic
coast, shipping the car from New York back to San Fran-
cisco and taking the boat to Havana, through the Canal,
back to San Francisco, then home.

5. C. Linn is Dean of the School of Chemistry, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Had a de-
lightful trip abroad, landing in Naples on May 7; at-
tended a meeting of the International Union of Chemis-
try in Rome later in the month, and then motored through
Italy, France, England, and Scotland, returning home
about the middle of July.

1897

Davip LEAKE has recently been appointed General
Attorney of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company.
His home is in Richmond, Virginia.

1898

J. SAM SLICER is practicing law at 413 Chamber of
Commerce Building, Atlanta, Georgia.

ALBAN G. SNYDER has been ill but is much better. His
home is at 415 Raymond Place, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

R. H. Hocerrs is with the San Diego
Stove and Appliance Company, 850-854
Sixth Avenue, San Diego, California.

  

\ 1900

Dr. Sam McPuHEETERsS is Director of
Public Health for Goldsboro, N. C.

1901

MATTHEW PAGE ANDREWS reminisces
wut? about a baseball game with William and
Mary in which the score was 40-0 in favor
of Washington and Lee. He says that at

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

least fifteen years after that event he happened to pick up
a copy of The Tribune by accident, containing an article
by Ernest J. Lanigan proclaiming this a world’s record
shut-out score.

1902

Dr. JAMES Morrison HurcHEson is a member of the
University Board of Trustees. He is practicing medicine
in Richmond, Virginia.

Dr. Witt1aAM ALLAN of Charlotte, North Carolina,
is always interested and active in alumni matters.

A. L. BurGER is Superintendent of the Public School
System of Lynchburg, Virginia.

ALEXANDER HAMILTON lives in Petersburg, Virginia.
He is a lawyer.

Henry GRAYBILL is Professor of Education, Green-
brier College, Lewisburg, West Virginia.

1903

GrorcE H. L&E is vice-president of the Pittsburgh
Screw and Bolt Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Joun W. Warner is practicing medicine at 1029 Ver-
mont Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

ARCHIBALD B. Younc has for some time been Chair-
man of the State Relief Commission and State Welfare
Board for the State of California.

GrorcE SEtH GUION is a member of the law firm of
Guion & Schulze, 1701 American Bank Building, New
Orleans, Louisiana.

Rosert Tate WALLACE has been Minister of the
Marion Presbyterian Church, Marion, Alabama, for eight
years. He recently represented Washington and Lee at
the centennial celebration of Judson College and felt con-
siderable pride that Washington and Lee ranked third in
the academic procession because of its early founding.
Says he had forgotten really that the date was 1749.

1904

I. W. PoinpExTER has been practicing law in Roa-
noke, Virginia, since 1904. He is attorney for the Co-
lonial-American National Bank, also a member of the
Board of Directors, a member of the Executive Commit-
tee, and Vice-President.

Marruew ‘I. McCrure is Dean of the College of
|.iberal Arts and Sciences, and Head of the Department
of Philosophy at the University of Illinois, Urbana, Ilh-

nois. This is his seventeenth year at the University of
Illinois.

Lyte M. Morrerr is Minister of the Presbyterian
Church in McDowell, Virginia.

1905

R. A. LApsLey, Jr., is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Roanoke, Virginia. He was erroneously
listed in the summer issue of THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
as a member of the class of 1904.

Wicpur E. MacCrienny is with West & Withers,
General Insurance, Suffolk, Virginia. His hobby is his-
torical research. .

Joun A. Moore is President of the Biscayne En-
gineering Company, Civil Engineers of Miami, Florida.

Dr. T. Dwicut SLOAN is Superintendent of Flagler
Hospital, St. Augustine, Florida.

1906

Basi MANLY is with the Federal Power Commis-
sion, Washington, D. C.

H. CLaupE Popst is practicing law in Grundy, Vir-
ginia. Has two sons and a daughter: “It is to be deplored
that the old faces cannot remain at Washington and Lee
as do the old trees and walks, buildings and beautiful
sloping campus. Even when we attend reunions, instead
of seeing a lot of carefree boys by the name of Crawford,
Pobst and whatnot, we would see, judging by what I see
each morning when shaving, a bunch of grey-haired,
bald-headed men with crows feet around their eyes. With
these men we seem to be strangers. When we have ex-
hausted the subject of the new deal, the result of the
Kentucky Derby, the latest movies, how we are doing on
our golf and the number of children and grandchildren
we have, we have about run out and want to go home and
back into the harness. But, can anything be done
about it?”

W. H. MoreEcanp says he has been on the place as
one of the “hired hands” for nearly twenty-four years
and doesn’t think he needs to add a biographical sketch.
The Editor would like to summarize these twenty-four
years here by saying that Mr. Moreland is one of the
most beloved and respected men who has ever been con-
nected with the University.

1907

W. W. HarcraVvE is serving as Executive Officer,
U. S. Naval Hospital, Great Lakes, Illinois.

[20]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

E. Ciypg Hoce is with the Lathrop-Hoge Construc-
tion Company, 1426 Clay Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.

1908

GrorcE E. Penn, Jr. has been practicing law in
Kingsport, Tennessee, since 1920. His firm is Kelly, Penn
and Hunter.

Ray Rosinson is practicing law in Winchester, Vir-
ginia.

C. L. GreEN has been in public school work since
leaving school. He is with the Board of

Education, Robeson County, Lumber-
ton, North Carolina.

Roscor STEPHENSON is an Attorney
and Counsellor at Law, Covington, Va.

%

GrorcE McP. MINETREE is located
at 509 Insurance Building, Washington,
D,.C,

rr \

\e
s

S
>
_
= a
=: —
2
- \
oe ae
an
ae.
i,
7
=
7 eS
Se
i

WZ
a=
.
‘ N >
UU
‘ Wy ;
’

2
a)

H. Lewis Brown is a member of the
firm of Burrough & Brown, 45 Rocke-
feller Plaza, 630 Fifth Avenue, New
York City.

if

Whey F
ty wall i

CHARLES T. RANDOLPH is an attor-
ney at law, Carmi, Illinois.

WitiiaM A. McCoy is in charge of the Plant Labora-
tory of American Smelting and Refining Company at
Perth-Amboy, New Jersey, which position he has held
for fourteen years.

1909

Leroy Cooper is in the cotton business in Memphis,
Tennessee. His address is 112 South Front Street, Mem-
phis, Tennessee.

Joun L. CAMPBELL is Trust Officer of the Rockbridge
National Bank, Lexington, Virginia. He has a son who
is a student at Washington and Lee and a daughter in
her second year at Hollins.

J. Preston IRWIN has been in Cleveland, Ohio, with
Arthur G. McKee & Company, Engineers and Contrac-
tors, for 21 years. Their business is engineering and con-
tracting work for iron and steel plants and oil refineries.

1910

C. W. Streit, JR., since leaving Washington and Lee,
has been connected with the Southern Cement Company
of Birmingham, Alabama.

ike

 

RussELL L. FRINK is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Florida, with offices in the Graham Building. His daugh-
ter graduated in June from the Florida State College for
Women, and a son is a sophomore at the University of
Florida.

H. A. (Tussy) Derr is enjoying life in the beautiful
and historically interesting town of Marietta, Ohio. He
is Assistant to the President and Technical Director of
the Marietta Paint and Color Company. He has a son in
his senior year at Washington and Lee.

FE. T. Burr has been engaged in life insurance work
ever since leaving Washington and Lee,
first with the Life Insurance Company
of Virginia at Richmond, next with the
North Carolina Insurance Department,
and finally with the Durham Life In-
surance Company, Raleigh, N. C.

1911

A. Fiint Kurz in practicing medi-
cine at Maiden, North Carolina.

FREDERICK A. JOHNSON lives at 1006
Overbrook Road, Wilmington, Dela-
ware. He is head of the Personal De-
partment of FE. I. DuPont de Nemours
and Company.

Lewis G. Cooper has been practicing law in Green-
ville, North Carolina, since 1913.

E. E. Aprams, Jr., is connected with the Inventors
Syndicate of Minneapolis, Minnesota. His address is
P. O. Box 951, Butler, Pennsylvania.

Brown D. Trustow has for twenty years been con-
nected with Coyle & Richardson, department store of
Charleston, West Virginia. He is married and has two
daughters, Ann, a senior at Randolph-Macon, who fre-
quently attends Washington and Lee dances, and Caro-
line, in the Charleston High School. He is always active
and interested in Washington and Lee affairs.

Henry C. McGavackx is Foreign Auditor for United
States Lines, No. 1 Broadway, New York. His hobby is
antique furniture and English History of the Tudor pe-
riod. He lives at 35-55 Eightieth Street, Jackson Heights,
New York.

Joun E. (Jack) Martin is Superintendent of the
Suffolk Schools, Suffolk, Virginia. He recently completed
a two-year term as President of the Virginia Education
Association. He is married and has a son who will be
eligible to enter Washington and Lee in 1944.

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1912

A. G. LIvELy was Circuit Judge at Lebanon, Virginia,
from 1930 to 1937. He resigned to re-enter private
practice.

RussELt B. WINE is located at San Antonio, Texas.
He made the longest trip of any man in the class to at-
tend the 25th class reunion.

WitiiamM W. ACKERLY is Commonwealth's Attorney
at Lexington, Virginia.

Byron L. BALLARD has been in Lansing, Michigan,
since 1916. Prior to that he was at Nashville, Tennessee,
for three years and Pendleton, Oregon, for one year. He
is Treasurer of the Democratic State Central Commit-
tee and a member of the State Board of Law Examiners.

A. Mason Harris is Chief of the Bureau of Streets,
Department of Public Works, Richmond, Virginia.

RANDOLPH P1pEs has a son who was married in July,
another son taking petroleum engineering at Louisiana
State, and a daughter ten years old. His address is 339
Carondelet Street, New Orleans.

Tommy GLascow is President of Glasgow-Stewart
and Company, Distributors of Automobile Supplies and
Home Appliances, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Harry GUNN FANNIN is President of the Commer-
cial Bank in Panama City, Panama City, Florida. Finds
banking a whole-time job.

1913

S. C. Ross is in the real estate business in West Point,
Mississippi, although his plantation, known as Roselands,
is his main business interest. He has a dairy, with 100
cows. His home is in the town of West Point.

Henry B. Goop tok is living in Crozet, Virginia, with
law offices in Charlottesville. He is United States Con-
ciliation Commissioner for Albemarle County, a Lieu-
tenant Colonel of Infantry in the Reserve Corps and Past
President of the Virginia Department and Vice-President
of the Third Corps Area of the Reserve Officers’ Asso-
ciation. His daughter, Mary Boynton Goodloe, is in her
second year in high school in Crozet.

1914

Wayne ELy is a member of the law firm of Leahy,
Walter, Hecker and Ely, Bank of Commerce Building,
St. Louis, Missouri. In 1920 he was appointed Assistant
Attorney General of Missouri, but has since devoted his
efforts to the general practice of law.

Henry P. CarriIncTon is with the Koppers Coal
Company, Maitland, West Virginia.

VANN M. MatTrHeEws is practicing medicine in Char-
lotte, North Carolina. His address is 728 Queens Road.

1915

J. D. TRIMBLE signifies by his letterhead that he has
offices in the Trimble Building, EF] Dorado, Arkansas, but
is so modest about his achievements that the best we can
do is to quote: “There are no annals to be recorded of
me for THE ALUMNI MaGazineE. I am but a plain and pri-
vate man, destined only for the sober shade of the ob-
scure walks of life, and very happy (at this moment) in
that state. I am speaking personally, and not politically.
I cannot have political happiness under this adminis-
tration.”

S. SHERRY STEIN is a member of the firm of Kassan-
Stein, Inc., Custom Tailors, 510 Eleventh Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

JAMEs E. Bear has given up all hope of returning to
China as a Missionary and is permanently located in the
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, where
he is teaching in the New Testament Department. He has
two daughters who were born in China, and a son, born

June 1, 1937.

Rosert M. McGEHEE was elected President of the
Order of High Priesthood of Royal Arch Masonry and
confers the degree at the Grand Chapter each year. He is
director of the Department of Religious Education,
Synod of Louisiana. His home is in Alexandria, La.

1916

CuHarLes T. HERNDON, JR., is practicing law in
Kingsport, Tennessee. He has a son who weighs 175
pounds, who graduated as veledictorian of his class at
the local high school.

R. S. Kime is Secretary of the Board of Trustees of
Roanoke College. He is married and has four daughters.
He is a member of the law firm of Kime and Hoback,
Salem, Virginia.

J. R. (Ike) Mannine has been in the general insur-
ance business continuously since 1919, after receiving his
discharge from the Army. His home is in Roanoke Rapids,
North Carolina.

F. STaNLEY Porter is practicing law at 509-515 Cal-
vert Building, Baltimore, Maryland.

Wirey D. Forsus is head of the Department of
Pathology, Duke Hospital, Durham, North Carolina.

[22]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

EK. S. MARSHALL is with the Continental Can Com-
pany, 100 East 42nd Street, New York, New York.

1917

Bitt YANCEY is with the University of Wisconsin,
Department of Military Science and Tactics, Madison,
Wisconsin. He is now Major Yancey.

GrorcE N. DANIELSON has been “making American
citizens” out of aliens for twenty years. Is with the United
States Department of Labor, Immigration and Naturali-

zation Service, Saint Paul, Minnesota. i
tes

  
  

Jimmig L&E is Managing Editor of
Chemical Engineering, a McGraw-Hill
publication.

aes :

  

J. L. (Luxe) WILviAMs is the fath- _
er of two boys whom he hopes to send
to Washington and Lee some day. He is
with the Bristol Company, Instruments
for Recording, Indicating, Controlling, °
250 Stuart Street, Boston, Mass.

FRANK J. GILLiAM is Dean of Stu-
dents, Washington and Lee University.

Morcan Bricut is with the Retail
Credit Men’s Association of Chattanooga with offices in
the Hamilton Building.

PauL PICKENS is with the St. George Motor Com-
pany, Cumberland, Maryland.

1918

Francis H. STy.eks is married and has three chil-
dren—two boys and one girl—ages 11, 9 and 7 years,
respectively. He entered the Foreign Service in 1920 and
for the past year has been stationed in Ottawa, Canada,
as Consul and Second Secretary. Has had two posts in
Europe, two in Africa, one in Mexico and three in Can-
ada, and has had a grand time seeing the world.

LESTER D. ARNOLD is associated with Senator Harry
Flood Byrd. His chief work is selling an apple crop of
about 600,000 bushels. He is married and has four chil-
dren, two boys and two girls. His hobby is golf and he
is President of the Winchester Golf Club this year.

Marr PAxTon is practicing law in Lexington and is
owner and Editor of The Rockbridge County News. The
News has erected an attractive new office building on Nel-
son Street.

‘ WZ, a

1919

Howarp P. Arnst has been engaged in the private
practice of law in Portland, Oregon, since 1919. Due to
the distance, he does not get back to the campus fre-
quently, but was here during the summer of 1934 and
again in 1937.

Ray TIL is in the lobster and fishing business at Mar-
blehead, Massachusetts. He is married and has three
daughters and one son.

Joun A. Wirt is located in the Peoples National Bank
Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Tom GrLuLiAM is cashier of the
Lynchburg National Bank & Trust Com-
pany, Lynchburg, Virginia.

 

Houston PATTERSON says: “I wish
I knew exactly where I was and where
I wasn’t. To bring the record up to date,
except for the Japanese Imperial Army,
this letter would be addressed from
China. As it is, part of the family prop-
erty is in China, part in the Philippines,
part in Canada, part scattered around
the U. S. A., and what is left is here in
Tazewell, Virginia. We will be here for
some time pending a lull in the explo-
sions in Eastern Asia. The future is any man’s guess.”

1920

FE. G. BaiLey is with the Imperial Coal Company,
Lynchburg, Virginia.

J. WALLER CALLISON is a member of the firm of J. S.
Callison & Son, Real Estate and Insurance, Echols Build-
ing, Staunton, Virginia.

J. Simms EpMonpDsON is practicing law in Memphis,
Tennessee. His firm is Dixon, Williams & Edmondson
with offices in the Commerce Title Building.

Witiis M. Evererr is practicing law in Atlanta,
Georgia with offices in the Connally Building. He is a
major in Military Intelligence Reserve.

CarL GILCHRIST is connected with the Subsidiary
Companies of Columbia Oil and Gasoline Corporation
with offices at 901 Kanawha Valley Building in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, in the capacity of Assistant Secretary
and Credit Manager.

H. Norv HA t er is practicing law in Frederick, Md.

Jo—E ENGLEBY, JR., is preparing two stalwart young
football players for Washington and Lee. They are at

[23]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

present seven and nine years of age. He is practicing law
in the Shenandoah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1921

J. Epwarp Moy er is an Attorney and Counsellor at
Law, Franklin, Virginia.

Stuart A. Briscoe is District Engineer of Construc-
tion for the State Highway Department, Brookhaven,
Mississippi. He has been married since 1922 and has one

child. |

DAvE SToREY is now connected with Columbia Steel
Company of San Francisco (a United States Steel Cor-
poration subsidiary). For the past two years he has been
assistant contacting manager of their Bridge and Struc-
tural Department. Was recently transferred to the Los
Angeles office. His new address is care of Columbia Steel
Company, Box 510, Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia. He has a wife and a son eight years old, who is
already following the athletic fortunes of the Generals.

M. BisHop ALEXANDER is with The Advertising Ser-
vice Company, 39 Broad Street, Charleston, South Caro-
lina, of which he is president. He publishes the Coastal
Topics magazine of which he is editor. He is married and
has two sons, ages eight and four.

1922

JoE SILVERSTEIN is a member of the law firm of Owen,
Silverstein & Davis, Charleston National Bank Building,
Charleston, West Virginia. In 1937 he was appointed
General Counsel to the Midwest Steel Corporation, and
finds it necessary to devote practically all of his time to
the duties of this office. He is married and has two
children.

Cas. M. CAMPBELL is a member of the firm of
Parks & Campbell, Merchandise Brokers of Lexington,
Kentucky.

Troy C. MussELWuiTrs is practicing law in Orlando,
Florida. After receiving his A.B. from Washington and
Lee he took a law degree from Harvard. He is married
and has two children, a boy and a girl.

Harry C. Rosert is a sports writer on the Philadel-
plia Bulletin. He married a girl from northern New York
State and they have a son, Harry C., Jr., three years old.

1923

R. Maurice FrEw is working with the United States
Rubber Products, Inc., Winnsboro Mills, Winnsboro,

North Carolina, in the Personnel Department with su-
pervision of athletics and community activities as his par-
ticular assignment. Finds industrial relations work very
interesting.

1924

H. L. SHuey practiced law for a few months after
graduation and has been in the furniture business since
that time. He is with the Morgantown Furniture Com-
pany, Designers and Manufacturers of Fine Furniture,
Morgantown, North Carolina.

M. P. MATHENEY was married while in Law School
and has two fine boys, twelve and eight. He is practicing
law in the Exchange Building, El Dorado, Arkansas.

NorFLEET TURNER is Vice-President of the First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis, Tennessee. He has been mar-
ried for twelve years and has a boy nine years old and a
girl seven.

Jok McMatH is practicing medicine at 515 Wyoming
Avenue, Wyoming, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Rev. Ropert B. CAMPBELL is rector of Kingston Par-
ish, Mathews, Virginia.

Dr. NICHOLAS GOTTEN is practicing medicine at 20
South Dunlap, Memphis, Tennessee.

1925

JouHN S. STRAHORN, JR., was at Harvard Law School
his first year out of college; then taught at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas from 1926 to 1930; took another grad-
uate year at Yale Law School in 1930-1931 and has been
teaching Law in the University of Maryland since that
time. Has been married ten years and has a daughter
three years old.

Hersert M. Gou pn is with Motors Holding Division,
General Motors Corporation, executive offices, General
Motors Building, Broadway at Fifty-seventh Street,
New York.

Perry A. NorMAN practiced law only a few months
after graduation. Has been with Western Union contin-
uously since then. He is now assistant superintendent,
Western Union, headquarters, Dallas, Texas.

SAM Bocuortz has been engaged in the practice of
law for the past seven years. His offices are in the Mutual
Life Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He is married and
has two sons who are preparing to enter Washington and
Lee. One is seven and the other three.

[24]

CLARENCE HINKLE is a member of the law firm of
Harvey, Dow, Hill & Hinkle, Roswell, New Mexico.

M. C. Lancuornz is head of the Department of Psy-
chology, Emory University, Georgia.

WitiiaM L. WooLFOLK Is an eye, ear, nose and throat
specialist in Owensboro, Kentucky.

Wituiam H. CLuverius is in the Merchandise Brok-
erage business in Charleston, South Carolina.

W. Carroit (JouNnny) MEAD is a member of the
firm of Mead, Irvine & Company, Investment Securities,
First National Bank Building, Balti-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Roy Nicuots is Director of Music in one of the Nor-
folk high schools and has about 1,000 in his classes every
week. Had three Glee Clubs this term which won the
three highest honors in the recent State Contest held in
Richmond. He is also directing the Norfolk Male Chorus
and the Young People’s choirs at one of the Norfolk
churches.

1928
CHaRLEs A. STRAHORN, after five years with the Fed-
eral Reserve Board in examining work, transferred, in
March of this year, to the F. D. I. C.,

S S . . “41° .
more, Maryland. ete, . with headquarters in Chicago. His pres-
K ; se res wie V ent travels carry him over Iowa and Illi-
ENNETH GoopE is working in the Bice. Be nois in contrast to his position with the

president’s office of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Lines, 3116 ‘Terminal ‘Tower,
Cleveland, Ohio, having been with the
C. & O. since June, 1925. On November
27, 1937, he was married to Dorothy
Earl Stanton. They are living in Cleve-
land Heights.

1926

Atmonp R. CoLEMAN is assistant
cashier in connection with accounting
and bank operations in the State-Planters Bank & Trust
Company, Richmond, Virginia. He shares an apartment
with W. M. Pope, 1927, who is office manager of Scott &
Stringfellow, Brokers.

J. K. (Kay) Tuomas is Speaker of the House of
Delegates for the State of West Virginia.

1927

GrorcE D. VARNEY was in the midst of a political
campaign when he wrote his class agent in May, being a
candidate for the Maine Legislature and if successful in
the primaries in June, and then at the election in the fall,
was expected to be elected Speaker of the Maine House.
He has been in the House on two previous occasions, in
1931 and 1937. Has been County Attorney of York
County, Maine, for two years. He is married and has two
children.

JoHN STRICKLER is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the State and City Building.

GEORGE SUMMERSON is manager of the Washington-
Duke Hotel, Durham, North Carolina. He has two daugh-
ters, one three and a half years old, and the other about
six weeks.

 

Federal Reserve Board, which took him
all about the United States.

JoHNNY LANCASTER is a member of
the law firm of Robertson, Leachman,
Payne, Gardner & Lancaster, Republic
Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

1929

S. J. THompson is Commonwealth’s
Attorney for Campbell County, Rust-
burg, Virginia. He was a member of the Virginia Gen-
eral Assembly in 1932 and a special session in 1933.

JuLrus Berry lives at 533 Jefferson Street, Tupelo,
Mississippi.

FRANK PARKER is growing apples—Rose Cliff Com-
pany, Inc., Waynesboro, Virginia. Reports the birth of a

second child, F. T., III, ‘Who can make the Blue Ridge
tremble any time of the day or night—and does.”

Tuomas P. Wricut is Principal of the Great Falls,
South Carolina, High School.

JAMES J. SALINGER has been connected with the
general insurance brokerage firm of Huff, Dreyer & Com-
pany, at 75 Maiden Lane, New York, for the past two
years.

“CHICK” SPENCER is with the Department of Jus-
tice, Washington, D. C.

1930

Leo V. Fany writes a very charming letter to his
class agent. In part he says: “When you ask me to
write about myself, you struck a tender spot. What
would you like to know? I am very handsome—in spite

[25]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

of what Ben says. I can’t tell you that I am wealthy—
not in this letter—but I have personality and—yes,—I
may as well tell the truth—I am married and have two
children. I am an attorney for the United States Hous-
ing Authority and am not making $10,000 a year.”

Ep Bostwick is with the Travelers Insurance Com-
pany, 111 North Harvie Street, Richmond, Virginia. He
is married.

Dr. Murrev Kaptan is practicing medicine in New
Orleans, Louisiana, in the Physicians and Surgeons
Building.

Dr. Joun P. LyNncu is associated with the McGuire
Clinic, St. Luke’s Hospital, Richmond, Virginia. He
also teaches at the Medical College of Virginia, in the
hospital division medical wards. He was married to
Helen Mansfield Davis of Richmond about a year ago.

GEORGE VERMILYA is also associated with the Mc-
Guire Clinic. He is in the surgical division. He was mar-
ried to Martha Carpenter last November.

C. Irvine Lewis says he is a country parson at Mt.
Solon, Virginia.

Frep B. Kino, Jr., is a member of the firm of Fred
B. King & Sons, Morticians, Youngstown, Ohio. He is
married and has two daughters.

1931

BILL SANDIFER, JR., is in the Public Lands Division
of the Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.

Henry McLANE is Prosecuting Attorney of Clay
County, Clay, West Virginia. Says he has a wife, two
children, a fishing rod and two bird dogs.

RENO Porvter’s address is now Resident Physician,
Peter Bent Bingham Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

W. TayLogr (Britt) Munrorp is Director of Dis-
plays at Thalhimer’s, Richmond, Virginia.

MELVILLE Cox since leaving school has been with
the H. L. Rust Company, Real Estate, Loans and In-
surance, 1001 Fifteenth Street, Washington, D. C., in
the Mortgages and Loans Department. He graduated
from Law School two years ago.

JouN ScHLOssBERG is practicing law in Trenton,
New Jersey. His address is Broad Street Bank Build-
ing, Trenton, New Jersey.

HERBERT OWEN SINSTON is with the Layne-New
York Company, Contractors, 92 Liberty Street, New
York.

Dan SHERBY is with the Zone Cab Corporation,
2020 West Third Street, Cleveland, Ohio. He is mar-
ried and has a daughter about two years old.

1932

Stuart L. CRENSHAW is in the Mortgage Depart-
ment of the Old Dominion Mortgage Corporation, 1101
East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia. He is married
and has one child.

Ross L. MALONE, JR., is a member of the law firm
of Atwood and Malone, Roswell, New Mexico. The
major part of their practice is devoted to oil, gas and
mineral practice in the Eastern New Mexico oil fields.

Jack HAMILTON, after three years with the United
States Playing Card Company, is now in the brokerage
business with Dominick and Dominick in Cincinnati.
Jack is married and lives at 3445 Laubet Place, Hyde
Park, Cincinnati, Ohio.

CHARLIE BLAKE is still at 15 Gramercy Park, New
York. After his last year’s success in “Dead End” he
spent the summer in Europe with the Ballet Russe, and
more recently has been with the musical “Right This
Way.”

Ep ALLEN, still with United Features Syndicate, is
now in the New York office at 220 East Forty-Second
Street. He styles himself modestly a “utility infielder”
and says he is working hard.

LeicHton McKinney is still writing insurance at
301% Woodard Street, Denison, Texas. His letter is
full of news of the Texas boys. Of classmates, he says
that Cotter MunceR left Dallas for Atlanta to go into
the motion picture business; Ep NEsBiT?T is now practic-
ing law.

RAN SHIELDS, Jr., is finishing a two-year rotating
interneship, and next year will be a resident in surgery
at the Lenox Hill Hospital in New York. His present
address is The Children’s Hospital, Bainbridge, Eigh-
teenth and Fitzwater Streets, Philadelphia.

1933

CopELAND (CopE) ADAMs is practicing law in
Blackstone, Virginia. He is attorney for the Southside
Electric Company. Is still a bachelor.

F. E. CALHOUN is in the Red River Reports Section
(Texas) of United States District office, Memphis, Ten-
nessee, engaged in making a complete study and investi-
gation for work and improvement of the Red River,
through offices in Little Rock, Arkansas. His address is

[26]

a
-

—

 

 

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

By Henry BOLey

was published in March, 1936, of
special interest to the alumni

of Washington and Lee

$3.00

order now from

Boley’s Book Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

McCRUM’S

=

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

mn

Whitman’s
and Martha Washington Candies

e
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

o
Your Mail Order Will

Receive Our Best Attention

 

 

 

Professional Directory

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
©

Philip P. Gibson

Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

James R. Caskie
1909
Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Ruff & Ready

Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921

Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building

East Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
  

Up-to-the-minute. aS

mild ripe tobaccos and
pure cigarette paper...
the best ingredients a
cigarette can have...

that’s why more and more smokers are turning to
Chesterfield’s refreshing mildness and better taste

_. millions

Copyright 1938, LicGert & Myers TOBACCO CO.

