wALUMNi Magazine

Washington and [ee University

 

V oleae VII DNanber 3

January [932 $2.50 a Vear

 

H E * ites Pipi © REE Ree, OR | m A we Ke tT ON UG

ee

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional character Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their

cards in the directory. Rates on application.

 

 

R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

THOS. S. OGILVIE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

 

 

LAWYER Suite 303 iy National Bank iiaths Onesk & Dovctie
uildin
Atlantic City, N. J. Bluefield = Va Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.
ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
(25-29 Citizens National Bank

‘ THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

 

411 Atlanta Trust Company Building Building
Atlanta, Georgia Parkersburg, W. Va.
JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus. Rechonge Buildian. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
Peoples Bank Building 811 Boxley Building

Tampa, Florida
W. H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

 

 

John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10

Compliments of TUCKER AND MASON
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE ,
e LAw OFFICES

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09 ;
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAw ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Suite 881 Mills Building
Departments H. B. Moors, Principal

Associate Income Tax Specialists San Francisco, California

1100 Investment Building
Washington, D. C. Telephone Sutter 3363

J. M. Moors, 708, Assistant Prin.

 

 

 

 

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

 

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

ore

 

a. me oe ae ee eS M $A G pA 2 i ae

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a Century

W. and L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES

 

 

 

“McCRUMS” For the Sake of Auld Lang

As Always the Gathering Place Of ;
. ; Syne

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE Order a Virginia Smoke

Cured Ham

From
Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)

 

 

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

WaLTER McDONALD, President

FE. L. GrawaM, Jr., Treasurer

Harry K. Youne, Editor

 

VOL. VII

JANUARY, 1932

NO.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

Building. NorroLtk, V
Benden-Trees Building. PHi~apELPHiIA, PENN.

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

CuaroTre, N. C_—Dr. Wm. Allen, Medical Building. Loursvrttx, Ky—Bob Hobson, Inter-
WasHINcTON, D. C.—Elwood Seal, Investment Building. New York, N. Y.
Mempuis, TENN.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities.
wha Valley Bank. Roanoxr, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley
Building. BirmMiIncHAM, ALtA.—Mark Hanna, First
Morris Plan Bank. ATLANTA, Ga.
1309 Hoge Building. JAcKsonvittr, Fra.—Fred Valz
H. M. Blain, 322 Hillary St.
TeExas.—Mr. Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

 

Ewing Humphries

 

 

GON TENTS

PAGE
Views of Washington and Lee....Frontispiece 2
George Washington and the University............. 3
New Book by Dr. L. C. Helderman .............. ye
Death Takes Dr. Reid White......0.000.0....0.ccccc00:. 5
Entertain Dr. and Mrs. Campbell.................... 6
Flealth for-Qhighgi ea a 6
W. J. Turner and Braden Copper Co............... 7
Union Seminary Review 2.0..0.0.0.0.cccccccccccecccesees 8
Register of Session 1931-1932 oo... 8
Veteran of Confederacy Dies .0....0.0.0.....cccccccccces 8
Colonial Ball Fancy Dress Theme .................... 9
Students Edit “World-News? o.0.......ccccccccsse. 10
New Style Book: Ganeig. icici. fic. hdeccches ocx: 10
Prof. Riegel Speaks in Nashville.................... 10
Miss McCrum Returns 0.0...0.0.0...ccccccccccssesseesee 10
Reminiscences of an Old “Lee Boy”.............. 11
Exhibit of Books and Newspapers.................... 13
Model Replaced by Bronze ............c.cccccccscesesseoes 13
Newco) tan et...c naa 13
Dr. Gaines’ Activities Are Varied .................... 14
Peale Puritan eed fi peg 15
Visitorytp Can ee eS 15
S. L PAO ORvenaO ee 16

Pack
Pee achat soc vsaceecrceoece 16
Se csscoccnss 16
The Average Student’s Day 0.0.0... 17
sixth President Since Lee .............c.ccccccceeeeee. 17
ec cccocore 17
New York Alumni Meet .....00000..0 eee 18
Alumni Dinner in Philadelphia ..0..0.00.0000000000.... 18
Gridiron Stock Hits New High ....0.00000000000... 19
A. Team: Without a Somg ......0..)....0....ccccccccccesee 19
Fil ee Oe Bec eee 8 20
Letters. Given to Generals «i533 .:h.....;.......... 21
High Position in Aeronautics .........0.00.0..cccc00. 22
W.. C; Flall om Qlorminttete iiiiis....4..065.:..000.0... 22
From Judge McDermott ..............0..ccccccccscscssesees 22
Washington and Lee Indoor Sports ................ a
We Meee er cc 26
Passing of the Gridgraph 00...0................ccc00000. 26
Intra-murals Growing in Popularity ................ 27
PIOUS erect ctcactenectecoctetescctt aT eters sae 28
Commission Holds First Meeting .................... 29
Etchings of Washington and Lee ............0.0000.. 29
Dr. Gaines to Meet Alumni... 30
Prete 7.5 cee 30

 

[-4-4

Southern Building.
—Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.
CuarLeston, W. Va.—Wirt W. Donnally, Kana-
Building. Lyncusurc, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch
National Bank Building. RicumMonp, Va.—Joe Bernie,
, Healey Building. Forr Worrn, Texas—E. S. McCord,
, Atlantic National Bank Building. New Orteans, La—
Detroit, Micu.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Company. San ANTONIO,
Huntincton, W. Va.,—J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank
A.—Walter Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Building. Prrrspurcn, PENN.—J. W. Claudy,
—E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

 

N

Oe ee ee ee Mw Ae A Se

E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[2]

T hoe Mie Bie Be, see

—7_—_™

me me Se. Ano GZ {2 Oe =

George Washington and the University

“Our Cincinnatus nobly laid

The proffered wealth he would not claim

Down at the Hall whose well-won name

Had reached him ‘neath Mt. Vernon’s shade.”

—Margaret Junkin Preston

Meme) MONG its many traditions Washington and
Lee enjoys the unique distinction of a very
real connection with George Washington. This
association is not a forced or a casual one. It is more
intimate and legitimate than that possessed by any
institution in America. For more
than a century and a quarter
it has used his name and enjoyed
the income of his endowment.
The university is justly proud
of this distinction and as the
nation celebrates the bi-centennial
of the man whose sword gave it
birth, it is appropriate that this
institution should recall the gift
which fairly preserved its life
in a difficult day.

At the close of the Revolu-
tion Washington put title and
uniform away and became merely
a private citizen on the banks
of the Potomac. He had no
thought, however, of becoming
a complacent tidewater squire
content to rest on his laurels.
His mind, as James Madison
observed, was “too big for a va-
cancy.” In the critical days fol-
lowing the Revolution his
thoughts turned to many pro-
jects of large import. In the
autumn of 1784 he rode nearly
seven hundred miles into the in-
terior. As an engineer he quickly recognized the best
routes of travel and traffic. As a statesman intent on
uniting the people he saw the vital need for transpor-
tation. Upon his return to Mount Vernon he lost no
time in placing his plan before the Governor of Vir-
ginia. It was his idea that the James and Potomac
rivers should be improved as means of communication
for what he was fond of calling a “rising republic.”

As a result of Washington’s suggestion, the James
River company was chartered. The legislature of Vir-
ginia, impelled by Washington’s interest in the project
and a desire to recognize his services in the Revolution,
Set aside one hundred shares. These were to be “vested
in George Washington, his heirs and assigns forever.”

 

 

 

PEALE’s WASHINGTON

IN UNIFORM OF A BRITISH COLONIAL COLONEL

This proposed gift, however, was very embarrasing to
Washington. He was already one of the wealthiest men
in America and during the Revolution, as he expressed
it, had “shut his hand against pecuniary recompense.”
Moreover, he was opposed to the principle of granting
gratuities for the performance of duty. He refused,
therefore, to use these funds for his private enrichment
but agreed to accept them in trust for some public pur-
pose. The legislature accepted this condition and provid-
ed that “‘the said shares shall stand appropriated to such
objects of a public nature as the
said George Washington by deed
during his life, or by his last will
and testament shall direct.” These
shares remained in Washington’s
possession until toward the close
of his presidency some ten years
later.

In 1796 when he began to
think of making his will he began
to study the public purpose to
which he should devote. these
shares. He had already decided to
confer the fifty shares in the Po-
tomac company on a National
University which he hoped to see
established at Washington, D. C.
It remained to find some educa-
tional institution on the James
River and endow it with the James
River shares. He requested the
Virginia legislature to advise him
in order that he “might appropri-
ate the James river shares to the
place which they prefer.”’ But the
spirit of rivalry among the vari-
ous parts of the State was so
warm that the matter was refer-
red back to Washington. He was asked to donate them
“to a seminary at such a place in the upper country as he
may deem most convenient to a majority of the inhabi-
tants thereof.” Laberty Hall, the ancestor of Washing-
ton and Lee, was situated in what was then called the
upper country. It was at this moment that William
Graham heard the rumor of a proposed donation and
acted in the interest of Liberty Hall.

No less than seven places in the upper country
applied to Washington for the donation but the choice
narrowed down to Staunton or Lexington. The leader
of the Staunton forces was Archibald Stewart whose
father had given forty acres of land to Liberty Hall
when it stood at Timber Ridge. He was an alumnus

[3]

2. ae ee ee ee ee

I

MAG AZ 1 hae

 

of the school but had moved to Staunton and was now

anxious to transfer the institution to that place. The
claims of Staunton were strong. It was the older

city, the seat of Augusta County long before Lexington
was incorporated and the school had originated as
Augusta Academy in its vicinity. Since that time, how-
ever, it had been transferred from place to place until
in 1796 it was located at the edge of Lexington on the
present site of Liberty Hall.

But the argument of Lexington was also strong
and Liberty Hall had an able advocate in William Gra-
ham who moved with Scotch-Irish tenacity. The
board of Liberty Hall met Jan-
uary 5, 1796, “‘maturely consid-
ered the information” and ap-
pointed a committee “to address
the President.” A_ well-written
and dignified petition was pre-
pared setting forth the origin of
the school and its financial dif-
ficulties. This paper was _ for-
warded to Washington at Phila-
delphia along with a map show-
ing the location of Liberty Hall
on the upper waters of the James
River, ‘This served to clinch the
argument for it was pointed out
that Staunton stood “upon the
Potomac.” Washington, it will
be recalled, had already donated
the Potomac shares to a National
University at Washington, D. C.
Although there was nothing to
prevent him from giving them to
any place in the upper country
which he preferred the logic of
the situation pointed to some
place on the James River.

On September 15, 1796, the
day preceding the Farewell Address, Washington an-
nounced that “after careful inquiries I have upon the
fullest consideration of all circumstances destined these
shares to the use of Liberty Hall Academy in Rock-
bridge county.”’ Shortly thereafter the legislature in Vir-
ginia changed the name of the school to Washington
Academy as an expression of appreciation for the gift.
The board of Washington Academy officially thanked
Washington for the gift which they declared would
entitle the statesman to rank also as a “patron of the
arts.” Washington replied that “to promote literature
in this rising empire and to encourage the arts have
ever been amongst the warmest wishes of my heart.”
Late in the year 1798 he conveyed title to the shares
by signing a deed at Mount Vernon. His last will
and testament, the original of which is at Fairfax
County Court House contains the following item: “The

hundred shares which I| held in the James River Com-

 

STuART’s WASHINGTON

pany I have given and now confirm in perpetuity to
and for the use and benefit of Liberty Hall Academy
in the County of Rockbridge in the Commonwealth of
Virginia.”

In this wise Washington gave his name and its
first important endowment to an institution which with
the passing of years has grown into Washington and
Lee University. It has a right to use his name. It is
its duty to recognize the gift which with Scotch thrift
and integrity it has kept intact until this day.

William Wordsworth all his life remembered gold-
en days at Oxford—the glory of its Gothic towers, the

quiet flowing river, and the chapel
Newton and
“T could not,”

with its statue of

its “‘silent face.”

he confessed, “print ground
where the grass had yielded to the
steps of generations of illustrious
men is at
Washington and Lee a wealth of
beauty and authentic tradition.
White columns gleam against the
blue hills of old Virginia and

antique Roman qualities of honor

unmoved.” There

and principle have somehow come
You
do not possess this place unless

to pervade its personality.

you are invaded by a subtle sense
of its beauty and see moving upon
of a mighty past.
A very large part of that past
leads directly to a great man
who described himself simply as
“George Washington of Mount
Vernon, a citizen of the United
States and lately President of
the same.” The title of Wash-
ington and Lee to this connec-
tion is clear. In the high court
of history it is pronounced the sole surviving heir of
George Washington forever. L. C. HELDERMAN

it the fulness

 

NEW BOOK BY DR. L. C. HELDERMAN

Dr. L. C. Helderman, Associate Professor of
History in Washington and Lee University, has pre-
pared a new volume on “George Washington—Patron
of Education.” ‘The work was done under a special
grant from the American Council of Social Science
and represents a complete investigation of the subject.
Dr. Helderman’s book is accurate, fair, brief, and
readable. It will be published in the early spring. The
University will have for disposal a limited number of
copies to be sold at a reduced price. Further announce-
ment will be made in the next issue of this magazine.

 

Forrest Fletcher and R. A. Smith represented
W. and L. at the meeting of The Southern Conference.

ee

 

iis wie ael e  oi

I

Mm. eR Ze

Death Takes Dr. Reid White

R. REID WHITE died at 8:15 o’clock Sun-
day evening, November 29, 1931, at his resi-

 

 

}dence on Nelson street, Lexington, Va. Dr.
White had suffered for more than a year with angina

pectoris, during which

period he was con-

Gned to his home. He

bore this long and

wearing illness with

creat cheerfulness and
bravery, and was fol-
lowed in his illness by
the sympathy of many
friends.

Dr. White

dean of the medical.

Was

profession of Lexing-

ton and was for a

number of years an

outstanding and influ-

ential citizen of the
community.

He was closely
identified by _ birth

with old and honored
Rockbridge families.
the

James J.

Lie was son of
Professor
\Vhite, long conspicu-
member of
the faculty of Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-

OUS aS a

and as a be-

versity,

loved citizen of this
community.
Dr.

mother

White's
was. before
marriage Miss Mary
l|.ouisa Reid, a daugh-
ter of Colonel Samuel
McDowell Reid and a
granddaughter of An-
drew Reid, both of whom were long clerks of Rock-
bridge county. He was an immediate descendant, also
of Colonel Samuel McDowell, so conspicuous in Revo-
lutionary times in this locality.

Dr. White was born March 28, 1868, at the an-
cestral home of his parents and of his grandfather
Reid, on Nelson street, Lexington, where he lived and
died.

He was educated at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in letters and then entered the University of Penn-

 

sylvania as a medical student. He devoted himself with
much enthusiasm to the study of medicine, which was
a characteristic of him through life. He was graduated
in 1892.

The death of his
father early in 1893
called him home and
he then took up the
practice of medicine
in Lexington just be-
completing his
work as an interne in
a city hospital. That
practice ended with
his very severe illness
which began a few
months ago, and to it
he devoted himself
with indefatigable in-
dustry and energy. It
included many whom
he generously treated
without compensation.

A very large
practice was supple-
mented by him at
times with the medi-
cal work of the two
colleges. He held the
office of post sur-
geon at the Virginia
Military Institute
from 1895 to 1900
when he resigned. He
responded to a call to
this service again
from 1909 to 1910.
He held the position
as University physi-

fore

cian at Washington
and Lee University
from 1928 until the

day of his death.

Dr. White confined his outside interests largely
to those associated with his profession. During as
many as twelve years ending in 1921 he was a member
of the state board of health, where he was valued for

promoting the organization of that institution. He
worked for years towards the establishment of the
county board of health of Rockbridge, and lived to
see it successfully in operation. He was, during the
World war, called to service as major in the United

[5]

= me SB ee ee ee Pee
States medical corps and superintendent at Richmond
medical work of county draft boards of Virginia in
enlisting soldiers under the draft.

Dr. White was twice married. October 22, 1895,
he married Miss Lucy Waddell Preston, a daughter
of the Rev. Dr. Thomas L. Preston, of Lexington. She
died in May, 1912. In 1916 he married Mrs. Elizabeth
Corse Murdaugh, who survives him. There survive him,
by his first marriage, two sons and one daughter: Dr.
T. Preston White of Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. Reid White
Jr., and Miss Lucy Gordon White of Lexington. His
second son, James J. White, while a soldier in the
American Expeditionary forces in France contracted a
disease which caused his death in the year 1927. Of his
father’s family, there survive Dr, White, three sisters,
Mrs. Sally Hare Bruce, widow of Helm Bruce of
Louisville, Ky,; Mrs. Isabelle White Brown of Pitts-
burgh, widow of Dr. W. George Brown and Mrs.
Agnes White Goldsby, wife of Judge Joel Goldsby of
Mobile, Alabama.

He was buried December 1 in the family plot in
the Presbyterian cemetery at Lexington, Va. The ser-
vices were held at the home at 11 o’clock. Dr. James J.
Murray, pastor of the Presbyterian church, officiated,
assisted by Dr. Vincent C. Franks, rector of Lee Me-
morial Episcopal church.

All classes at Washington and Lee were suspended
during the funeral hour. Dr. Francis P. Gaines, presi-
dent of the University, when advised of Dr. White’s
death said:

“His connection with the University has been un-
commonly close. He came of a family that through
several generations has had a distinguished place in
the institution’s history. His usefulness has been be-
yond all computation. Thousands of alumni join the
faculty and present student body in sincere grief at the
loss of this friend.”

 

ENTERTAIN DR. AND MRS. CAMPBELL

Dr. Harry D. Campbell, accompanied by Mrs.
Campbell, attended a meeting of the Southern Associ-
ation of Colleges and Secondary Schools, which met
in Montgomery, Alabama, November 30th to Decem-
ber 4th.

Dr. Campbell, a past-president of the Association,
is now a member of the Executive Committee and also
a member of the Commission on Institutions of Higher
Education.

Dr. and Mrs. Campbell were delightfully enter-
tained by the parents of students now in the Univer-
sity during their entire stay in Montgomery.

On Friday evening, December 4th, the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni of Montgomery gave a dinner
for Dr. and Mrs. Campbell at the Country Club. The
following alumni were present:

Clyde Bear, ’27; Fred Bear, ’27, and wife; Mr.

I

MAGA 2@-:.t Nae

Sam Englehardt, ’09, and wife; Dr. T. Brannon Hub- ~
bard, ’06, and wife; Clifford Lanier, 91, and wife; John
R. Marshall, ’29; Stuart May, °10, and wife; Joe R.
McCoy, *11; Dr. Paul S. Mertins, 96, and wife;
Howard Trawick, ’25, and wife; Jack Thorington Jr.,
‘29; F. Y. Conner, ’10, Tuskegee, Ala.; M. H. Conner,
‘10, Tuskegee, Ala.; Walter Bruce, ’89; J. D. Flowers,
14, and wife.

The following parents of boys now in the Univer-
sity were present :

Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Hobbie; Mr. and Mrs. Pat
Hodges; Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Bear; Mr. and Mrs. Car-
ter; Mr. and Mrs. Sam Engelhardt, 09; Mr. Julius
Rice; Dr. C. G. Leslie; Judge and Mrs. J. R. Thomas.

 

HEALTH FOR CHINA.

Edgar (“Confucius”) Sydenstricker, 02, director
of the division of research of the Millbank Foundation,
recently returned from a trip to China where he inaug-
urated the first rural public health project ever under-
taken in that country along modern lines. The Millbank
Foundation had given a grant for public health to the
Chinese National Association for Mass Education and
Mr. Sydenstricker was invited to act as technical advis-
er. When in China he also gave a course of lectures
on population and vital statistics at Nanking University,
addressed the National Legislative and Statistical Yuans
(Departments ), and was called in to advise the National
Ministry of Health.

The most pleasant feature of his trip was a visit
to his father, Rev. Dr. A. Sydenstricker, W. & L. ’78,

who has since died, and his sister, Pearl S. Buck, the ~

author of “East Wind: West Wind” and “The Good
Earth,” both of whom lived at Nanking.

Besides directing many research activities in the
social sciences and public health, Edgar Sydenstricker
continues as chief statistician of the United States
Public Health Service in a consulting capacity. He was
recently appointed to the Social Science Research Coun-
cil, made an American delegate to the triennial confer-
ence of the Institute of Pacific Relations at Han Chow,
China, is lecturer in social research at Columbia Uni-
versity, and is preparing a report for President Hoov-
ers Research Committee on Social Trends dealing
with changes in national vitality. He still finds time
to write a paper now and then for scientific journals
and to sail his boat on the Chesapeake Bay. Every
year or so he returns to Geneva to serve on some tech-
nical committee on the League of Nations where as the
first chief of the League’s Statistical Service in 1921-
1924, he inaugurated the international system of ex-
change of public health statistics and information. He
resides in New York and Washington.

 

Rosser Coke, ’11, of Dallas, Texas, was a visitor
to Lexington in November. His son, Rosser Coke,
Jr., is a sophomore in the University.

[6 ]

 

.. Ba Akh “ WH N

EE

I

mtéA IGA 2 ft Ws

W.J. Turner and the Braden Copper Co.

m|N RESPONSE to a request from the editor
the following letter has been received from
W. J. Turner, ’03. This letter with its ac-
companying description of the Braden Copper Com-
pany’s works at Rancagua, Chile, of which Mr. Turner
is General-Manager, is of such interest that we are
publishing it in full.

  

Mr. Harry K. Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,

Dear Mr. Young:

I have your letter of September 8th, requesting
a letter from me for publication in the Magazine re-
garding my job here in Chile. Accordingly I am at-
taching herewith a brief description of the property
and activities of the Braden Copper Company which
you might be able to work into something for the paper,
although I do not presume that you will find it at all
necessary to include the entire article.

Regarding my own history, I graduated from
Washington and Lee with an A.B. degree in 1903,
tried working in a bank for some six months and didn’t
like it, and decided to take an engineering course at
Cornell where I graduated in 1907 with the degree of
C.K. After a couple of years of working at home
I was employed by the Braden Copper Company at
the beginning of 1909 as an engineer and surveyor. I
have been with this company ever since, with the ex-
ception of about a year and a half during 1917 to 1919
when I was in the U. S. Army, serving as Captain of
Aviation in the United States and in France, and also
about a year with an affiliated copper company in the
north of Chile. I was appointed General Manager of
this company about two years ago, after having served
as Smelter Superintendent and Assistant General Mana-
ger for a number of years.

I am married and have two boys, aged ten and six
years. I like golf, shooting and bridge, at all of which
[ would probably be rated poor to fair.

I hope to make a visit home next year, and if pos-
sible to be in Lexington around Commencement time
and to have the pleasure of calling upon you.

Yours very truly,

W. J. TurRNER

The mines and reduction works of the Braden
Copper Company are situated in Chile, Province of
Colchagua, on the western slope of the Andes moun-
tains, about fifty miles to the southeast of Santiago,
the capital of the country, and largest city with a popu-
lation of 400,000. Rancagua, in the heart of the fer-
tile central valley, is the nearest town of any size, and

is 173 miles on the Chilean State Railways from Val-
paraiso, the chief seaport of Chile. It is, however,
only 96 miles by rail from the port of San Antonio,
through which, for the past six years, all Braden cop-
per is exported, and practically all imported materials
are received. From Rancagua to Sewell, the main
camp on the property, the company operates its own
narrow guage railroad, a distance of forty-five miles,
in which it rises from an elevation of 1600 feet to 7000
feet.

The property of the company includes over three
hundred square miles of mountainous and rolling coun-
try in the vicinity of the mines, as well as forty-two
acres in the city of Rancagua, where the main shops,
warehouses, business offices, and railroad terminus are
located. ‘The company also maintains an office at the
port of San Antonio for the handling of exports and
imports, as well as a complete 80,000-barrel capacity
fuel oil tank installation, through which are handled en-
tire tank-steamer cargoes of oil for use in the metal-
lurgical processes and the operation of the railroad.

Sewell has a population of some 8,000 persons.
Here are located the concentrator and sulphuric acid
plant, the administrative offices, the main hospital, and
numerous auxiliary features such as shops. ‘The mines
are a mile and a half further into the Andes, at an ele-
vation of from 8,000 to over 10,000 feet, and are reach-
ed by two narrow gauge electric railroads for the trans-
portation of ore and supplies. At Caletones, four miles
below Sewell, and at an elevation of 5,000 feet, is the
smelter.

The Company employes some 7,000 men, of whom
96% are Chileans.

Power for every purpose at the mine, mill and
smelter is distributed from two hydro-electric plants
owned by the Company. ‘The Cachapoal plant at Coya
consists of five reaction turbine units direct connected
to generators, operating under a head of 410 feet, with
a capacity of about 20,000 kilowatts. The Pangal
plant, completed in 1919, consists of three Pelton im-
pulse wheels direct connected to generators, with a head
of 1,500 odd feet, and of 15,000 kw. nominal capacity.
The Pangal plant is connected to Coya by a transmission
line operating at 66,000 volts, and from the latter sta-
tion by a similar line to the substations at Caletones and
Sewell.

The company maintains at Sewell an excellent
modern hospital, with capacity of sixty patients, togeth-
er with emergency branch hospitals at the mine, smelter
and power plants. There is also an adequate organization
of the supervision of the housing, sanitation, policing,
and amusments of the total population of nearly 12,000

L7))

a: a 2

persons dependent upon the activities of this company.
One feature almost unique among the mining companies
of South America, is the prohibition of alcoholic
liquors on the property. This policy has been in force
for many years, and has been a very important factor
in the successful operation of the various units of the
plant. Due to the location of the different camps at
such a distance from any important centers, and to their
relative inaccessability, the property has been kept quite
“dry,” although there have been the usual difficulties
in suppressing the inevitable bootlegger. One reason
for the success of the “dry” regime has been the gen-
eral approval of the Chilean employees in its enforce-
ment, with the result that it has proved a great advan-
tage in the maintenance of a steady force of workmen,
and the achievement of a high degree of efficiency and
regularity of operations.

The present nominal capacity of the mines and
plants is 18,000 tons of ore treated per day, equivalent
to from 18,000,000 to 20,000,000 pounds of copper per
month.

The history of “El Teniente’” has consisted of a
gradual but steady growth from a small beginning to
its present position as one of the foremost copper pro-
ducers of the world, both from the point of view of
capacity, as well as of efficiency and economy of op-
eration. The ore reserves are sufficient to guarantee
production at the present rate for a period of more
than fifty years. The extent of its operations and its
long life have thus placed the Braden Copper Com-
pany as a very important unit in the industrial struc-
ture of Chile, as well as one of the main suppliers of
copper in the world.

 

UNION SEMINARY REVIEW

“The Union Seminary Review” of Richmond, a
Southern Presbyterian Quarterly, issued its ““Reformers
and the Bible’ number in October, 1931. ‘There were
eleven articles, of which three are by Britishers, two
by men of the North. Of the six Southern contribu-
tors, the following are Washington and Lee Alumni.

“Robert Fishbourne Campbell, ‘the first citizen of
Asheville’—for thirty-nine years the distinguished pas-
tor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, N.
C.; graduated with the M.A. degree of Washington
and Lee University—Moderator of the General As-
sembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church in 1927;
Sprunt Lecturer at Union Seminary in Virginia, 1930.
The book, Freedom and Restraint, containing these
Sprunt lectures, has been pronounced ‘the most help-
ful book produced by our Church in this decade’.”
(Dean Harry Campbell’s brother. )

Holmes Ralston, Jr., A.B. of W. and L., pastor of
the Bethseda Presbyterian Church of Rockbridge Baths,
won high honors and a fellowship at the seminary, also

Aol 4 wi Ng

MA GA ZIN BEB

studied abroad ; and has written two noteworthy articles
on recent German theology.

William MaC. Miller, another alumnus, has been
“preaching the Gospel with eloquence and power” for
47 years; is stated supply of the Howardsville Church
and Pastor-at-Large in West Hanover Presbytery.

Besides these three, one article is by W. Twyman
Williams, B.A. and M.A. of Hampden-Sidney, who
received the degree of D.D. from W. and L. in 1925, ©

 

REGISTER OF SESSION 1931-1932

An inspection of the 1931-’32 register shows that
the University has twelve Administrative officers ; eight
Administrative assistants ; fifty-eight Faculty members.

CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS BY RESIDENCE

Adabenis wii des tka: 28 New Mexico ................ 3
iriegnees 25 5c 5 oe geet Mock: .iscciisda 90
Colasade: 61555042: .ic..6ii 1 North Carolina ............ 21
Connecticut .f6ici5.d... ee Se eee 35
een fois ier; hits RONG ai vids wee 16
District of Columbia .. 17 Oregon ...0....0..0.00c0.0. 1
Prides 3 si iter 24 Pennsylvania .............. 47
RN itis, avy. fasoNous 14 Rhode Island ................ 1
RS iii ceil, lett 27 South Carolina ............ 11
Penal 12185235. hic Ri ih Rembessee Soiiuschsia 26
momeneet, coisas Tite ais | lid cay ieee 24
Weel 8.6)5.06000. aS SS (Metmont 200.636 1
LOmimiane ois. Raa NER 8.5 chi 175
Marwan 6.15.26) 266. 508 39 West Virginia ............ 52
Massachusetts ............ Bi ~ WO MBORIEN: 6 28dics cca a
Michigans )...i66663kc RO MRR cies. cae 1
Mississippi .................. Me sR hick iia 1
Diseeere | iuz...0o aks 50% Ge nteteiod. .. idee 1
reeemen OD e actin 3 © Da: isis ce 1
New Jersey ........060.... 47

Total number of Students registered Oct. 1, 1931....862

 

VETERAN OF THE CONFEDERACY, DIES

T. L. Wyche, ’83, one of the four remaining Con-
federate Veterans of Thomasville, Ga., died October
29, as a result of injuries sustained when he stepped
in a hole in his back yard and broke his leg in two
places. Death came to the veteran as he was apparently
sleeping in Archbold Memorial Hospital.

Mr. Wyche was born in Thomas County in Octo-
be 1848, son of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Wyche. He en-
tered the Confederate army in 1864, at the age of 16
years. After the war he attended Washington College,
(now Washington and Lee University) and there was
under the tutelege of Gen Robert E. Lee. He is sur-
vived by his widow and five children.

 

Robert Stuckenrath, B.A. ’25, has moved from
Harrisburg, Pa., to Lewistown, Pa., and is a member
of the firm of Culbertson and Stuckenrath, with offices
at 2 South Main Street.

aaa

 

Tt Be A -L 4 WN

——

I

Se? eet Ce, ee ee ee, ee

Colonial Ball Fancy Dress Theme

OLLOWING the nation-wide spirit of cele-
bration of the two-hundredth anniversary of
the birth of George Washington, and repeat-
ing the theme of the first Fancy Dress Ball in 1907,
the Washington and Lee Fancy Dress Ball of 1932
will be carried out with a theme depicting a Colonial
Ball in the time of General Washington.

The decorations and the figure are to carry out
a particular incident in the life of Washington. After
his resignation as Commander-in-Chief of the Conti-
nental Army, he ,
was extremely anx-
ious to spend
Christmas with his
family, and arriv-
ed at Mount Ver-
non on Christmas
Eve. The next
day was spent in
receiving friends)
and neighbors who
called for the holi-
days, and to wel-
come  Washing-
ton to his home.
The figure will be
worked out on the
central idea of this
reception at Mount
Vernon.

Jim Sparks and
Harry Fitzgerald,
president and bus-
iness manager of the dances, have worked out a novel
plan for the scheme of decorations for the set. The end
of the gymnasium opposite the entrance will be deco-
rated on a foundation of three pergolas on a platform.
These will all be heavily decorated with artificial flowers
to carry out the theme of a garden. The various groups
of the figure are to enter through these three arches,
and thence to the floor. The sides of the gymnasium
will be arranged to complete this theme, being decorated
with flowers and smilax, and the customary yellow
chairs are to be replaced with white garden furniture
against backgrounds of evergreen.

The organization of Fancy Dress has ordered
permanent ceiling for the gymnasium. The balcony
will be decorated with artificial flowers and long
streamers of Spanish moss, brought here from
Louisiana.

An innovation will be made use of at the Fancy
Dress Ball to facilitate the serving of refreshments.

t

 

 

James. D. Sparks
Representing George and Martha Washington at 1932 Fancy Dress

 

 

Instead of attempting to serve plate suppers to the
dancers, long tables will be placed along the sides of
the gymnasium and the refreshments served as a buffet
supper. This arrangement will be used for all the
guests at the dance except the chaperones.

The men who will march in the figure at the Fancy
Dress Ball will be divided into six groups. They will
wear the costumes of French calvary officers, colonial
riding habits, British revolutionary military outfits and
colonial and British court costumes. The VanHorn

-_ costuming company
of Philadelphia will
be in charge of cos-
tuming the ball.

Mrs. Beverley
Tucker, who is to
be in charge of the
costuming and dec-
orating for _ the
dances, went to
Philadelphia during
the first week of
December to choose
costumes for the
figure, and also to
select the lanterns
and _ candalabra
which will be used
in the lighting
effects.

The theme of a
Washington Ball is
the same idea about
which the first Fancy Dress was developed. In Febru-
ary 1907, Miss Annie R. White, then president of the
Dramatic Club, gave a Ball Masque in the University
gymnasium for the students here, and the sub-profes-
sors of V. M. I. The gymnasium was decorated with
evergreens, Japanese lanterns, and mural draperies
and one corner of the gym was arranged in old Vir-
ginia buffet style, where sandwiches and coffee were
served during the evening.

The dance was led by Mr. and Mrs. S. B.. Walker,
of Lexington, who appeared as George and Martha
Washington, and who were assisted by Miss White,
in the costume of a Colonial Dame, and Mr. W. H.
Wood, of Birmingham, Alabama, as Robin Hood.

The dance was attended by forty couples and fifty
stags, and the entire guest list with the costumes of
each is printed in the Ring-tum Phi of that date. <A
Grand March in which all of the dancers participated
was the high point of the evening, and the march was

é
* ae i Stine eal ek, -

Miss ELLEN Kent MILLSAps

 

 

[9 ]

ee Oe

followed by a general unmasking. Music was provided
by the V. M. I. orchestra.

Miss Ellen Kent Millsaps, who will lead the figure
at the George Washington Ball during the Fancy Dress
set with J. D. Sparks, president of the set, is a member
of a family closely connected with Washington and Lee
and its surroundings.

Miss Millsaps is at present a student at Hollins
College at Roanoke, the same school her mother at-
tended. Her father, Mr. Frederick Flournoy Mill-
saps, is an alumnus of Washington and Lee. He re-
ceived his B.S. degree here in 1908, and was a member
of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity here. It is interesting
to note that he was in his Junior year here when the
first Fancy Dress Ball took place.

Miss Millsaps’ maternal grandfather, Dr. Logan
who came from near Salem, Virginia, also received his
D. D. degree from Washington and Lee.

 

STUDENTS EDIT “WORLD-NEWS”

Six students of the Lee School of Journalism made
the first newspaper field trip of the fall when they jour-
neyed to Roanoke December 11th and helped publish
the World-News. ‘The group was under the direction
of Professor Karl W. Fischer.

Arriving in the “Magic City” early in the morning,
the students accompanied the regular staff reporters
on their beats. Some of the visiting writers journeyed
to the courthouse and watched trial proceedings.
Others visited the offices of men prominent in Roanoke
business and political fields. ‘Then one reporter cov-
ered the shopping district and picked up little stories
for a column.

The first page of the second section was a Wash-
ington and Lee page. All stories on it concerned
the school. There were stories about General Lee’s
leadership in establishing a journalism school at the
university, an interview with President Gaines, stories
on the athletic teams, and a story about the band. Num-
erous little stories about the university filled up the
page. Besides this there was in the first edition a
front page four column picture showing the collegians
at work in the World-News local news room. ‘Then in
the second edition this picture was transferred to the
inside pages and run along with a column that one of
the collegians had written. Outside of the regular news
pages, a large amount of the editorial page was written
by journalism students. Book reviews written by Pro-
fessor O. W. Riegel’s literary criticism class appeared
on this page.

The visitors were then conducted through the entire
plant of the Times and World-News. ‘They watched
the Associated Press news come in over the wire. They
watched the telegraph editor click out Roanoke news
for the rest of the country, and then finally they watch-
ed the mighty presses roar out the completed newspaper.

A Al te ON. Ee

mM AD GS A Se SS Oe oe

Those on the trip were R. T. Hopper, Trenton,
N. J.; C. E. Allen, St. Louis; W. C. Capel, Candor, N.
C.; J. M. Friedman, Danville, Va.; L. C. Iredell, Allen-
town, Pa.; and F. H. Cunningham, Chicago, III.

The journalism school sponsors several field trips
every year. In the past they have made trips to Coving-
ton, Va.; New York City; Charleston, $. C.; Phila-
delphia, Penn.; and to Roanoke, Va.

The department of journalism sponsors these field
trips as it believes that the students will get a great
deal of good experience out of the actual contact made
in newspaper offices. The collegians actually have to
make a deadline, and they actually get the “feel” of
newspaper work on these trips. Also the trips have
been varied and the students can see how work is accom-
plished on both small city dailies and on nationally
known publications. Nearly every man in the jour-
nalism school is given a chance to make at least one
of the trips that is taken.

 

NEW STYLE BOOK READY

The students in the Lee School of Journalism have
a new book, which is also useful to newspapers and
newspapermen as well. The hand-book for the Fourth
Estate is entitled “When In Doubt.”

The book was published by the Virginian Publish-
ing Company. William L. Mapel, director of the Lee
School of Journalism, with O. W. Riegel, Karl W.
Fischer, and Douglas Doubleday edited the book before
the university opened in the fall.

The 76-page book will be used by the students
of the school, and complimentary copies will be sent
to high school editors and staff writers who were dele-
gates at the annual convention of the Southern Inter-
scholastic Press Association in Lexington.

The book reviews general style for punctuation,
spelling, capitalization, use of tables, headline writing,
and carries a section on obsolete and trite expressions.

A number of newspaper style books were reviewed
before When In Doubt was written, and the book at-
tempts to indicate new tendencies in writing and editing.
The book will be given out to students when they re-
turn from Christmas vacation.

 

PROF. RIEGEL SPEAKS IN NASHVILLE

Prof. O. W. Riegel, acting director of the School
of Journalism, attended the fifth annual Dixie Press
Convention at Nashville, Tenn. Mr. Reigel gave the
principal address of the convention, made several short
talks, and acted as a judge in the contest.

 

MISS McCRUM RETURNS.

After a year’s leave of absence, Miss Blanche P.
McCrum has returned to the University as head li-
brarian. She has completed her studies toward a Mas-
ter’s degree at the University of Southern California.

[ 10 ]

 

Tt hoo

EEE

Dk. Bm NN I

| ae. Se ae ae eee eee

Reminiscenses of an Old “Lee Boy”

IEADERS of the Alumni Magazine will re-
member that at the 1931 Commencement of
our University five “Lee Boys” of the 60's,
ranging in age from eighty to eighty-five years, re-
ceived the honor of initiation, iyto the University
chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa scholarship fraternity.
In my case this experience brought to the surface many
things that had “gone darkling into the background”
of my subconscious memory, to which now I would
apply the phrase “‘olim meminisse juvabit,’ and some of
which perhaps, may be of interest to the few survivors
of our contemporaries of those days.

The circumstance that was the occasion of my
going to Washington College occurred more than one
hundred years ago. In 1829 my mother came to South
Carolina from Vermont with Rev. Rufus W. Bailey
of whose family on the death of her parents she had
_ become a member. There she met and was married
to my father who was also a recent emigrant from
New England. Dr. Bailey later went to Virginia to
became pastor of the Presbyterian church in Staunton,
and to establish the school now known as Mary Bald-
win College. There his daughter Harriet met and was
married to Prof. John L. Campbell, a teacher in the
school, and who later became the much loved Professor
of Chemistry in Washington College. |My parents
emigrated to Arkansas, and in 1854, when their oldest
son was ready for college he was sent to Lexington
where he would be under the care of his mother’s girl-
hood friend, Harriet Bailey Campbell. Another brother
went in 1859 and I followed the procession in 1869.

I will give the itinerary of my trip to Lexington
as illustrative of the one thousand years, measured not
by the Almanac but by the rate of the world’s progress
previous to that time, which have intervened between
that date and now. Leaving home on Monday morn-
ing I travelled one day by private conveyance; then
two days by stage to a point on the Mississippi river ;
then one day and night by steamboat to Memphis;
then two days and nights by the Memphis and Charles-
ton railway to Lynchburg, Virginia. Arriving one
hour late we missed the Saturday evening canal boat
to Lexington, and had to wait till the following Wednes-
day for the next boat. The entire trip which could now
easily be made in eleven hours by the Graf Zeppelin,
consumed ten days.

The morning after my arrival I had my first meet-
ing with General Lee. Walking with my friend, Drake
Haislip, as we were passing the Chapel door he was
coming up the steps from his office in the basement.
My natural timidity was aggravated by my having been
suddenly placed in an unaccustomed environment, and

 

 

I had looked forward with dread to the experience of
meeting so great a man face to face. But when I had
a full view of his countenance my timidity vanished,
and I responded to my friend’s introduction by extend-
ing my hand and saying, “Good morning, General Lee.”
Instead of any expression of forbiddingness in his
countenance, what impressed me then and ever after-
wards was that it was the ideal combination of dignity
and benignity. And these were the qualities that
characterized all his relations -with the student body,
with the result that, practically without exception, their
attitude toward him was that of reverence and love.

It was his custom early in each college year to in-
vite all the new students to an entertainment in his home
where he would talk with each one personally and learn
their names which he would never afterwards forget.
At these gatherings we were introduced to members
of the family, and thereafter any student was welcomed
as a visitor, without any inquiry into his social or gene-
alogical antecedents, provided only that he knew how
to conduct himself as a gentleman. It was a home in
which the entire compatibility of true aristocracy and
true democracy was beautifully illustrated.

First of all, one of the loveliest features was the
motherly attitude of Mrs. Lee towards the students.
She took a special interest in those of us who were too
far from home to return between sessions. She several
times asked me to bring her any article of clothing that
needed darning, and once gave me a little sewing case
furnished with the facilities for sewing on buttons.

My acquaintance with the youngest daughter, Miss
Mildred, developed into a warm personal friendship
which lasted while she lived and the memory of which
will abide with me to the end. She inherited from her
father a brilliant mind, a vein of quiet humor and true
nobility of character, and from her mother a charming
personality, and those whom she once accepted as
friends were never forgotten. I saw her only once
after leaving college, but we continued an occasional
exchange of letters while she lived. The originals of
some of these have been deposited with the Lee relics
in the College Chapel, and for specimens and literary
quality, I think, are, in a class with those of Madame
Recamier.

The oldest daughter, Miss Mary, was a person of
great independence of character. She was entirely de-
void of fear and was fond of taking long walks alone.
On one of these walks on the road leading to House
Mountain she came upon a mountaineer who was
savagely beating his horse in an effort to extricate his
wagon from a mudhole. She walked up to him and
said very calmly, “Stop beating your horse, and I will

[ 11 ]

Be fs A f 3 mm

I

MAGA ZHtdIN a

 

help you get out of the mudhole.” Then under her
direction he succeeded on getting back on to firm
ground. On returning home she sent for me and
told me of the incident, and knowing that I was a
teacher in the College Y. M. C. A. Sunday school on
House Mountain, suggested that we try to find him and
get him to attend the school, which we did. He came
and brought his family with him, and I do not think
they missed a Sunday for the three years I remained
at college. She always spoke to him when she met
him on the street and asked after his family and how
they liked the Sunday school. It proved to be a fine
piece of home mission work, the result being a com-
plete transformation of the entire family. I give this
incident to show that along with the masterfulness of
character for which she was somewhat widely known,
she also had a kindly heart and a mind that was set
on doing good.

It must be remembered that the entertainment re-
ferred to above at which the following incident occurred
was more than fifty years before the day of national
prohibition. Among the refreshments served was some
diluted sherry wine seasoned with spices and lemons.
It was about the color of weak tea. Before going to
Lexington I had never seen either sherry wine or cold
tea. As it was being served the boys called it cold tea
which I innocently thought it was, only I thought it
had a much pleasanter flavor than cold tea we had at
our boarding house, and I allowed my glass to be re-
filled several times. Presently I began to have a strange
feeling of elation and found myself much more fluent
in conversation than usual. Turning to the young
lady I had been conversing with I asked her if she had
observed that I could not stop talking. She said she
had. I replied, “Well I know what I am saying now,
but I do not know how long that will be the case. I
thought I was drinking cold tea; but whatever it was
it has gone to my head and I seem to be losing my self-
control.” She replied, “You have been drinking what
we call a sherry cobbler. I suggest that you and I take
a promenade for a few moments ont on the walk in the
fresh air,” which we did, and after which I returned
with my equilibrum restored and, in this one respect,
at least, a wiser if not a better man. As the serving of
light wines at entertainments was then practically a
universal custom in the South, I do not consider that
the mention of this incident at this late date involves
any reflection on any of the parties concerned.

The surviving “Lee Boys” will remember that his
method of administering college discipline was entirely
paternal. We were told at the beginning that the only
thing required of us was the faithful discharge of our
college duties and that we should conduct ourselves as
gentlemen. His own character as the ideal gentleman
was deeply impressed on all who were capable of being
impressed by it. What is known as the “honor system”
was not then technically in vogue, but the public senti-

ment of the student body always found a way promptly
to eliminate any student who was guilty of any dis-
honorable conduct. Those who were remiss in class
attendance were always invited to a personal interview
with the President in his office. At a first interview he
would usually ask a few questions, as to when they had
heard from home, and if their parents were well, and
how they were enjoying their college work. He would
then dismiss the student with a polite “good morning.”
No student ever left any such interview with any doubt
as to why he had been summoned, or with any desire
to have the interview repeated.

There are three biographies of General Lee which
every one should read. One is entitled, “Recollections
and Letters of General Lee” by his son, R. E. Lee, Jr.,
which gives an intimate view of the family life.
Another is entitled, “Lee, the American” by Gamaliel
Bradford, which is a very discriminating character
sketch rather than a biography. Another, and the best
of all is entitled, “Lee, the Soldier,” by Gen. Sir Fred-
erick Maurice of the British Army. Ranking him above
Wellington as a general he has this to say of his atti-

tude and influence after the Civil War: “Splendid as —

was his career as a general in the field, nothing in his
life became him more than his end. His resolute re-
fusal in circumstances of great difficulty and tempta-
tion to take part in any of the controversies which the
war engendered, his devotion to his work of training
the young men of the South to forget the quarrels of the
past and to be good Americans, all displayed even more
truly than did the test of the battle field, high courage,
sincerity of purpose, devotion to principle and nobility
of soul. No one took upon himself more earnestly
Lincoln’s charge, and with real self-abnegation set him-
self, with malice towards none, to bind up the nation’s
wounds.”

When General Lee died in the fall of 1870 his
body lay in state several days in the College Chapel,
waiting for those who loved and honored him in all
parts of the country to come to attend his funeral. A
guard of honor of twenty-one students selected by the
faculty were appointed to watch by his bier. The only
survivors of that body today are Bishop J. R. Win-
chester, of Arkansas, and myself. About 5,000 people
attended the funeral which was conducted upon the
campus by General Wm. H. Pendleton who had been
General Lee’s chief of ordinance, and who was then
rector of the Lexington Episcopal church in which
General Lee had been a vestryman. A never to be
forgotten feature of the service was the singing af
General Lee’s favorite hymn, “How Firm a Founda-
tion” by the great crowd of friends and old Confederate
soldiers present.

It is pleasant to say that, partly at least, through
General Lee’s influence and that of the students from
both North and South who attended the college during
his presidency, the fires of sectional hate kindled in the

[ 12 ]

T Fe

ie 2) ae ee ee

mm Re he le

 

Civil War, and which the aftermath of Reconstruction
caused to burn fiercely for many long and bitter years,
have now practically died out. Neither our political
alignments nor personal relationships any longer have
much to do with the points of the compass. Men of the
South and men of the North have fought side by side
in two wars since those old, unhappy far off days when
they fought each other; and our country now recognizes
itself as one and unseparable to a far greater extent
than was ever the case before the Civil War.
S. H. CHESTER

 

EXHIBIT OF BOOKS AND NEWSPAPERS

An exhibit of old and rare books and newspapers
on display in the Washington and Lee library Friday
and Saturday, October 23 and 24, was inspected by a
large number of residents of Lexington and home-
coming visitors. The display was a contribution from
the Scholastic Press convention at the University.

The books, dating from the fourteenth century,
were principally from the collection of Edward L. Stone
of Roanoke and were arranged in the browsing room.

On the balcony were newspapers yellowed with
age, many of which announced events of great historical
interest. Such a one was the copy of the New York
Herald which published the assassination of Lincoln.
Instead of announcing the tragedy in streamer head-
lines, the headlines were arranged in rows in one
column, at the top of which was the word “Important”’
in the largest type on the page. The facsimile of the
copy of the Virginia Gazette of 1776 in which was
published for the first time the Declaration of Indepen-
dence was another historical paper. A copy of the
New York Herald of 1802 showed the importance of
politics in those days. It was the weekly edition of the
New York Evening Post and was published to reach
readers all over the country in the interest of Federal-
ism. Political dicussions, through editorials and letters
from subscribers, took precedent over news in the early
papers. Dispatches of a war correspondent formed the
important news in a New York Tribune of 1863, edited
by Horace Greeley. Another rare newspaper, the Chi-
cago Tribune of October 11, 1871, announced the dis-
astrous Chicago fire. In the exhibit was an ancestor
of our modern Sunday newspapers, “Saturday Night,”
published in Philadelphia in 1874. No display adver-
tisements were found in the old papers and the head-
lines were small compared to those now used. A table
was devoted to copies of weekly Virginia papers pub-
lished between 1870 and 1890 and loaned by W. E.
Thomas of Roanoke. Many of the rare newspapers
were loaned by Professor Karl W. Fischer, Professor
Frank W. Gilliam, and Professor O. W. Riegel of
Washington and Lee. London, Berlin, Brazil and
French newspapers were also on exhibit.

One leaf of the original Gutenberg Bible, published

in 1450-1455, was a rare item in the book collection.
The first book in the exhibit published in English in-
stead of Latin was dated 1570 and bore the title, ““The
Sermon of Christ Crucified.” Eighteenth century books
include a photographic facsimile of the first book print-
ed in Virginia, which was published in Williamsburg
in 1730 by William Parks. An unusually large book,
the famous Nuremberg Chronicle, was described as
the picture book of the middle ages, and contained
woodcuts, the largest of which extended over two pages.
Books published in small editions in recent years for
book collectors, were among the 20th century treasures.

Members of the Alumni Survey Committee, ac-
companied by Dr. Gaines and Mr. Stone, made a special
visit to the exhibition on Friday night, October 23.
Mr. Stone talked about his books informally with the
members of the committee.

After the Washington and Lee exhibit Mr. Stone’s
books were sent to Charlottesville and shown in an
exhibition sponsored by the University of Virginia.

 

MODEL REPLACED BY BRONZE

_ The statue of Cyrus Hall McCormick, which was
dedicated in September on the Washington and Lee
campus, has been replaced by the permanent bronze
statue, the dedicated figure having been a model. The
bronze statue has been completed since the unveiling.

John David Brcin, the sculptor, was here to super-
intend placing the figure on the base, the actual work
of which was in charge of C. C. Remsburg. The dis-
carded model was taken to the town dump and broken
into pieces.

Most people attending the unveiling were ignorant
of the fact that the statue was a model. The new one
on the campus is much handsomer. The details show
better and the color is not quite as dark.

Bronze shrinks three-sixteenths of an inch to a
foot, Mr. Remsburg said, which makes the permanent
statue slightly smaller than the model. The pedestal
of dark Georgia granite weighs 12,000 pounds, and
the figure 1500 pounds. The model, which was made of
plaster of Paris, shellaced and then bronzed, weighed
400 pounds. The bronze of the permanent statue is a
darker shade than that of General Smith’s statue on
the V. M. I. grounds and will have a greenish tinge
as it ages. The figure was cast by the Kunst Foundry
of New York City.

 

NEWCOMB HALL—“PURE BEAUTY”

An etching of Newcomb Hall by Morton Hansen
is reproduced in a booklet recently published and circu-
lated by the Travelers’ Life Insurance Company. This
picture, together with views of eleven other American
colleges was selected by the company on account of its
pure beauty.

[13 ]

ii wt &

ce ae ee ee

MA @ A 24 © Boe

Dr. Gaines’ Activities are Varied

ALWAYS approach my office in a very leis-
urely manner to avoid being confused or flus-
tered when I arrive there,” said Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington and Lee
University, in an interview on his daily life as a college
president.

“To do this, I find that it is necessary to get up
at seven o’clock every morning and to have breakfast

 

 

by a quarter of eight. On some occasions I find it
necessary for me to get up around five o'clock.

“The early hours of the morning,” the president
continued, “are the only ones in the whole day that I
can get peace and quiet which are so important when
I have a difficult task, such as the writing of a speech,
to do.”

Dr. Gaines was asked about the morning routine
in his office.

“The first thing that I do is attend to my corres-
pondence ,and I have plenty. Fifteen or twenty per-
sonal letters every morning from the parents of the
boys here in school, from the alumni and from old
students who want recommendations for jobs. I also
receive all the letters from boys who want to continue

their studies here, and from boys who would like to
take up their studies here but are unable to do so be-
cause of financial embarrassment.

“After that,” he explained, “the morning is given
over to the usual conferences with the various members
of the faculty who have their problems the same as
the students do, to trips of inspection about the grounds
and buildings of the University.

“T usually leave my office at twelve-thirty for
lunch and do not return until two.

“My afternoons? They are spent much the same
as my mornings. I sit as an ex-officio member on all
committees, regardless of their nature, and hold student
conferences on a hundred and one different problems.
From four until six is my recreation period. I spend
it either in the library keeping up with the world
through current magazines or playing with my children.

“T believe in keeping my children home as much
as possible,” he went on. “I have a small gymnasium
fixed up in the cellar of my home and we have a ping-
pong table and a pool table which receive quite a lot of
wear. I am very much interested in ping-pong, and
although my oldest boy can beat me nine times out of
ten, I still enjoy it a lot. About once a week I get a
chance to attend a picture show. I am not much for
the movies. I guess it is because I don’t get the op-
portunity. |

“After supper,’ Dr. Gaines continued, “I devote
myself to social activities. Usually some member of the
faculty, with his wife, will drop in to call on Mrs.
Gaines and myself to chat. Sometimes three or four
of the students will drop in to pay us a call, sometimes
my wife and I will go out to return a call of some
faculty member and his wife. I have a few receptions
at my home for various occasions. Just the other night
Mrs. Gaines and I entertained the members of the foot-
ball squad at a dinner. I think we had thirty-four boys
with us that night.”

Dr. Gaines sat back in his chair and offered me a
cigarette. Then he started talking about his hobby.

“T am a very ardent fan of the radio. ‘The boys
at Wake Forest gave me one before I left there to come
up here, and I certainly do enjoy it. I find that some
good music in the evening softens the mood of the day.
This is especially so if the day has been a trying one
and my nerves are all ragged and on edge. Music
quiets me so that I am able to go to bed and enjoy my
sleep. While I don’t always go to sleep right away, I
do read a lot. I always read myself to sleep with a
book or magazine.

“You ask me what are the two things in the regu-
lar day that I enjoy the most?” he asked and smiled.

[ 14 ]

 

T Eo Ans BP BN

“My cup of coffee that I have every morning be-
fore I get out of bed, and my radio and my book when
I go to bed.

“A cup of coffee every morning before I get up,”
he repeated in answer to an inquiring look. ‘When I
lived in Mississippi, it was one of the habits that I ac-
quired and have never lost. I have always had a little
electric coffee pot on a small table beside my bed, and,
on the mornings that I get up very early, I make my
coffee myself, and the rest of the time the servant
makes it for me when I awake at seven. That and my
radio and my book are the two things which I enjoy the
most during the routine day as a college president.”

 

PEALE PORTRAIT USED

Peale’s famous portrait of George Washington,
known as the Virginia Colonel, which is now in the
possession of Washington and Lee, is to be used as one
of the twelve famous paintings which will appear on the
new bicentennial stamps. ‘These new stamps, issued to
commemorate the bicentennial anniversary of George
Washington’s birth, will be placed on sale in the post
office at the national capitol January 1, and in the post
offices throughout the country on January 2. They will
be sold during the entire year of 1932.

There will be twelve stamps in the series and each
will bear as the central design, a different likeness of
Washington, taken from the works of noted American
and foreign artists. The stamps not only mark a
notable celebration, but are of particular artistic merit.
All of them will bear the significant dates, 1732 and
1932.

The Peale portrait of Washington is to appear on
the one-and-one-half cent stamp which will be light
brown in color. The reproduction on the stamps will
have an intricate and decorative design as its back-
ground. ‘This portrait is the first one that was painted
of Washington, and shows him in uniform of a British
colonial colonel. After the death of Washington, it
was inherited by his adopted son, George Washington
Park Custis of Arlington House, and from him it went
to his daughter, Mrs. Robert EF. Lee, who gave the por-
trait to Washington and Lee.

A miniature, also painted by Peale, the original of
which is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, is to be
used for the one-half cent stamp. The stamp is dark
brown and bears a circular panel in which the copy of
the miniature appears. ‘The one cent stamp is green,
and the likeness used is the famous profile bust of
Washington which was done by Antoine Houdon in
1785, and which is now at Mount Vernon.

The Gilbert Stuart Atheneum portrait, which is
probably the best known likeness of Washington due
to its use on one dollar bills, is to be used for the two
cent stamp. This painting, done at Germantown in
1796, although it is more widely known than some of

I

ew aR ee eee

the others, is unfinished and not generally regarded
as the best portrait of Washington.

The three cent stamp is to be purple, and its art
feature will be another of Peale’s. This portrait was
painted at Valley Forge in 1777 and pictures Washing-
ton in the uniform of a general. The original is now in
the possession of the State Normal School at West
Chester, Pa. Still another portrait of Peale’s, done in
the same year, and owned by William Patten, Rhine-
beck, N. Y., will be used on the four cent stamp. The
color of the five cent stamp is blue and on it will ap-
pear the Washington portrait which is now in the pos-
session of the New York Historical Society.

The Trumbull portrait, painted in 1792 by John
Trumbull, will be the likeness of Washington used for
the six cent stamp. The portrait, the original of
which is now at Yale University, shows the first presi-
dent in the uniform of a general. The color of the
stamp will be orange. Another of Trumbull’s por-
traits will appear on the seven cent stamp. The pic-
ture is a full length portrait, portraying Washington in
the colonial uniform. It was painted in 1780, and is
now owned by the Metropolitan Museum in New York.

Olive green will be the color of the eight cent
stamp, and it bears a reproduction of a crayon draw-
ing done by Charles B. J. F. Saint Memin in 1798. The
drawing was done from life and is an excellent likeness
of Washington.

A pastel portrait drawn for the Masonic lodge of
Alexandria in 1794 and still in its possession, will be the
art feature of the nine cent stamp. The color will be
pink. The ten cent stamp, the last of the series, will
have a reproduction of “Vaughan portrait.” The
painting known as the Vaughan portrait was painted in
1795 by Gilbert Stuart, and is now owned by S. P.
Avery.

 

DISTINGUISHED VISITORS TO CHAPEL

Visitors to Lee Memorial Chapel during the month
of October include those coming from 39 states and 11
foreign countries. England, France, Germany, Hol-
land, Panama, Ireland, Japan, Porto Rico and Jugo-
slavia were represented.

Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, wife of the former presi-
dent, visited the shrine while passing through Lexing-
ton. Several distinguished army officers have paid
their respects to the Lee family. Col. Warner McCabe,
attached to the American Embassy in Rome; Brig.-
Gen. Farrand Sayre, retired, from Italy, and Captain
Allen Strock, United States Army, were among those
registering.

 

James Allison Cooper, ’15, and I. B. Watkins, ’19,
of Henderson, N. C., attended the Duke game. “Fats”
is in the cotton business, and “Bull” is mayor of Hen-
derson.

[15 ]

et fe. 8 me! ee Sede eae |

I

ae, a oe. oe oe ee

 

S. I. P. A. CONVENTION

Anybody present in Lexington on Friday and
Saturday, October 23 and 24, could not have missed
a large group of visiti rs who, distinguished by great
curiosity, poked into « ery nook and cranny of our
University. These were the delegates to the seventh
annual convention of the Southern Interscholastic Press
Association. More thin eighty delegates, representing
twenty-six high schools in eight states, were registered
Thursday evening
and Friday morn-
ing in the Y. M. C.
A. room by stu-
dents from the Lee
School of Journal-
ism. These visitors,
representing _ stu-
dent publications,
had sent in entries
for awards of
merit.

Entertainment of
the guests began
Thursday evening,
October 22, with
informal reception
at the Delta Tau
Delta house. Here
Charles. Blake
magician, perform-

James Henry Furay ed some of his

tricks, including
a newspaper trick he had recently perfected. By Fri-
day morning, all the visitors had arrived and were
safely lodged in rooms supplied by townspeople.

The first session opened Friday morning at ten
o'clock in Lee Chapel with Prof. O. W. Riegel persid-
ing. Dr. Francis P. Gaines gave a speech of welcome,
and short talks were heard from representatives of the
publications which had won prizes last year. A motion
picture, “The Making of a Great Newspaper,” depicting
the steps in the printing of one edition of the New
York Times, was shown at the New Theatre. Then
those delegates interested returned to the campus to
take a current events and news personalities test, for
which the prize was a bronze plaque of the university.
It was won by William West, E. C. Glass high school,
Lynchburg. The afternoon session opened in the chapel
with an address by Professor Riegel on “Journalism’s
Widening Horizen.” Following this, the delegates
were conducted on a tour of the campus by Professor
Frank J. Gilliam. At 2:30 o’clock the group convened
in the Carnegie Library, where they inspected a jour-
nalism and rare book exhibit.

Saturday’s sessions continued with the group meet-
ting held to discuss problems incidental to the publish-
ing of scholastic papers. W. C. Stouffer, managing

 

editor of the Roanoke W orld-News, spoke on “News.”
He told of the requirements of the modern newspaper
and the developing technique. In the afternoon the
delegates were given an opportunity to see the now his-
toric Washington and Lee-Virginia game, in which
we swamped our ancient rivals 18-0.

The convention closed Saturday evening with a
banquet at the Robert E. Lee. Prizes were awarded
in the publications contest, and James Henry Furay,
vice-president of the United Press Associations, was
the principal speaker. ‘Twelve silver loving cups went
to the respective classes and represented winners of
newspaper, magazine, and annual rewards. Mr. Furay,
spoke on “America Goes Abroad”’ and told the assem-
bled delegates of the enormous growth of foreign de-
mand for American news service because of its fair-
ness and impartiality.

 

ALUMNUS IS AUTHOR

The Evidence of Immortality, by, Judge Don P.
Halsey, 93, of Lynchburg, Va., has just been publish-
ed by the Macmillan company.

The notice on the cover of the attractively bound
volume states that “the question of the possibility of the
survival of the individual human soul is here answer:
ed affirmatively” and adds that “the subject is thought-
fully discussed by a judge—one accustomed to deciding
questions of fact upon the evidence available.”

After describing the nature of the book, the article
says that this is the “kind of writing which will revive
belief and serve as a much-needed antidote to the sick-
ness of disillusionment which has attacked society.”

 

-_—

NEW PARTNERSHIPS

Announcement has been received of the formation
of a partnership, on August 1, 1931, by Ray L. Strother,
O. L. McDonald, ’12, and A. J. Rosenshine, for the
general practice of law under the firm name and style
of Strother, McDonald & Rosenshine, with offices in
the Union National Bank Building, Clarksburg, W. Va.

And also;

J. R. Marcum, W. T. Lovins, 714, and Philip P.
Gibson, ’15, have formed a similar partnership under
the firm name of Marcum, Lovins and Gibson, with
offices at Suite 417-425 First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va., effective October
1, 1931.

 

J. M. Montgomery, ’10, fourteen years a mission-
ary in Hwain-fu, China, is touring Texas on a round
of missionary addresses. Jim is well-known to several
college generations, as student, Y. secretary, and
later as assistant pastor of the Presbyterian church in
Lexington. He is at present in Birmingham, Ala., but
will spend the spring studying in New York.

[ 16 ]

 

, oe 2 2 oo

I

eS ee ek a ee

 

THE AVERAGE STUDENT’S DAY

The battered alarm clock, veteran of many early
morning wars, clatters away at its tinny task. ‘The bed
creaks, and the tousled head of Average Student ap-
pears, fifteen minutes and two flapjacks away from the
eight-thirty class.

Shivering in the early morning chill, he dashes to
the bathroom, throws a dash of water at his face,
brushes his teeth vigorously, scuttles back to his room,
discarding pajamas as he goes, and emerges five minutes
later dressed for the day’s duties. A ten-minute stop
for a quick breakfast, served by the butler, and then he
is on his way to class, only five miutes late. Pretty
good.

That is Average Student. Of course, there are
others. Some switch off the thumping appeal of the
bell and spend the morning in bed. After all, four
hours of classes are trying.

When Average Student turns into the campus by
the Episcopal church he looks to see whether George
Washington is still standing on the top of Washington
College. He has a place of honor except when on
Freshman night members of the first class dress him up
in red paint.

When the old bell peals out its mellow strains at
twelve-thirty, Average Student strolls homeward for
food. On the way from class he comments on his
morning with other students.

“Say, did Hig give us some quiz?
ripper.”

‘““How’ll you guess on N. Y. U.-Tennessee tomor-
row ?”

“Naw, he thought he’d get me, but I had that one
cold.”

At the gate he parts from his fellow students and
goes to the postoffice, or “P. O.” as it is called. Mail
or no mail, this rite must be observed at least four times
aday. Then home to lunch.

It was a

Lunch over, he ambles over to the card room for
a hand or two of bridge. More talk, a smoke and then
it is time for the afternoon program. Unless he is
busy with laboratory courses in chemistry, commerce,
biology, physics or engineering, he can look forward
to entertainment. There is the movie.

But many of the Average Students have an eye
on campus activities, and are busy on the training fields
and in the gymnasium in the afternoons. Bridge is the
major indoor sport at Washington and Lee. It out-
ranks conversation, music and loafing. There are more
hands of bridge passed across the table in Lexington
than there were hands across the sea between Dino
Grandi and Secretary Harry L. Stimson recently.

The great majority of boys will and do study.
There is notebook work, collateral reading for many
courses and outside reading at the University or depart-
mental libraries.

With twilight and supper comes another pause
in the regular day. Perhaps Average Student has a yen
for companionship. If it is a week-end, he may drive
to Lynchburg to see a friend at Sweet Briar or that
girl at Hollins or Randolph-Macon. If he has no
automobile some ability to finesse a ride or promote
another “‘date’’ is necessary. There are bargains over
gasoline, food, seats and other entertainment features.
He spends half the day getting a ride to a woman’s col-
lege and the night explaining why he did not come
the night before.

And then, home again, a quiet hour or two with a
newspaper, a magazine or a new crime story or novel.
The radio is filling the room with pleasant strains of
dance music, a fire is warming and rounding the music
into a cycle of real entertainment. Good friends to talk
with, a warm bed waiting—it is a good day after all
and tomorrow? Well, tomorrow is another day.

 

GAINES SIXTH PRESIDENT SINCE LEE

Following the death of Gen. Robert E. Lee, his
son, General G. W. Custis Lee, became president of
Washington and Lee University. He resigned in 1896,
was made president emeritus and died in 1913. The suc-
cessor of General Lee was William L. Wilson, former
member of the Congress and a cabinet member under
Grover Cleveland. He died in 1900 after three years
of service.

Prof. Harry St. George Tucker, dean of the school
of law and now a member of the Congress from Vir-
ginia, acted as president during the unexpired last year
of President Wilson’s term.

Dr. George H. Denny, formerly professor of Latin,
was elected president in 1901 and served until 1911. In
1912 Dr. Henry Louis Smith was called to the presi-
dency. In the interim, Dr. H. D. Campbell and J. L.
Campbell, the dean and treasurer, were in charge of the
university. Dr. Smith retired in 1929 and Dr. Robert
H. Tucker acted as president until July, 1930, when
Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines was elected president.

 

JONES IN NEW POST

Virgil C. Jones, graduate of the journalism school
in 1930, has been appointed city editor of the Hunts-
ville Tinwes, Huntsville, Ala. This paper, serving a
city of 11,500, comes out as a morning paper every
Sunday and as a evening paper every night except Sun-
day.

Jones is a charter member of the Washington and
Lee chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, honorary professional
journalistic fraternity. While in school he handled
some of the university’s publicity.

 

Dan Blaine, ’21, now Dr. Daniel Blaine, Stock-
bridge, Mass., was a visitor in Lexington recently. He
is practicing medicine.

[ 17 ]

Eh Hh a 2 oe aN

I

nm 6 3S RM OZ Ee RS

 

NEW YORK ALUMNI MEET

The Seventh annual meeting and dinner of the
Washington and Lee Alumni in New York was held
at the Hotel St. Regis, on Friday, November the 13th,
at seven o’clok P. M.

President Joseph T. Lykes presided and the Secre-
tary, Mr. E. W. Lee, acted as Secretary of the meeting.

The chairman stated that the first business to be
disposed of was the election of officers whereupon, Mr.
Charles Kupfer read the following report of the Nomi-
nating Committee which was unanimously accepted.

Officers to serve until the next annual meeting of
the New York Alumni:

President
Vice-President
Secretary-Treasurer

we .....Mr. E. M. Millen
ee Mr. Stuart Chevalier
an ........Mr. FE. W. Lee

Members of the Council to serve for three years:
Mr. Milton B. Rcdgers, Mr. Joseph T. Lykes, Mr.
Nelson W. Burris.

The treasurer of the New York Alumni Associa-
tion, Mr. E. W. Lee reported the treasury solvent and
his report was unanimously approved and ordered on
file.

Mr. Lee was then given a unanimous rising vote
of thanks for his untiring and loyal services on behalf
of the University and the Alumni of New York.

There being no further business, Mr. Lykes turned
the meeting over to Hon. John W. Davis who presided
during the remainder of the evening.

After a most enjoyable dinner during which music
was furnished by Vincent Lopez and his orchestra and
by L. T. Brown, who gave a most excellent rendition
of the “Swing,” enthusiastically supported by the voices
of all present, Mr. Davis introdued Dr. Gaines as the
chief speaker of the evening.

An inspiring and eloquent address by Dr. Gaines
was followed by interesting, impromptu remarks by
Mr. Caskie of the Board of Trustees of the University,
Mr. Morison, the present president of the Washington
and Lee Student Body, and Cy Young, our enthusiastic
Freshman Coach and Alumni Secretary.

By unanimous consent the meeting adjourned until
the following day at 2:00 P. M. at Palmer Stadium,
Princeton, New Jersey, to watch the Generals twist the
tail of the Princeton Tiger.

The following members and guests were present :

Thornton W. Allen, 713; George W. Allison, ’10;
Rayford W. Alley, ’10; Robert O. Bentley, Jr., Minor
Bronough; Leonard T. Brown, 718; Leigh D. Bulluck,
’26; David F. Burch; Nelson W. Burris, ’26; Edwin C.
Caffrey, 09; J. R. Caskie and nephew; James A. Cast-
ner, ’28; C. T. Chenery, ’09; Stuart Chevalier, ’03;
Francis T. Cole, 718; Jackson Collins, ’17; John W.
Davis, 92; William E. Dold, ’76; Walter M. Dunlap,
15; John Drye, Jr., ’20;

Harvey C. Eley, 11; H. L. Elias, ’23, and brother ;

Wm. Farrar, Jr., 16; R. A. Fulwiler, ’25; Dr. Gaines;
John M. Glenn, ’79; Arthur Glickstein, ’24; Robert
Glickstein, ’27; Lawrence Goldman, 712; Herbert M.
Gould, ’25; Roy J. Grimley, ’21; Lawrence P. Haynes,
‘22; George Edward Harris, ’24; Hugh Hawthorne,
10; Lindsay Henry, ’25; G. T. Hodges; Bob Howe,
'28; J. J. Hudak, ’23; R. A. Hunter, ’25; Reed John-
ston, ’28; Benjamin A. Judd, ’88, 93; Charles Kupfer,
"17; Edward W. Lee, 713; Dr. George B. Lee, ’93; J.
A. Lee, ’17; Robert B. Lee, ’29; Armand C. Lopez, ’16;
J. T. Lykes, ’09; Nicholas Mandak, ’23; Wentworth F.
Myers, ’20; Eli M. Millen, 05; Harry E. Moran, ’14.

Graham Morison, ’32; George Mueller, ’20; H. W.
Myers, 94; Arthur W. McCain, ’14; C. H. McCain,
‘20; Judge McDermott; Henry C. McGavak, ’13;
C. W. McNitt, 717; William Owens, ’28; A. M. Pickus,
'24; Junius L. Powell, 714; E. W. Poindexter, ’23; E.
A. Quarles, 98; Maurice J. Reis, 30; Marion W. Ripy,
"06; M. B. Rodgers, °17; Clarence L. Sager, 714;
Norris Smith, ’29; Raymond Smith, ’20; D. R. Snively,
23; John Sorrels, 17; Edgar J. Spady, ’24; H. Austin
Spang, Jr:, ’25; Fred Stanley, ’26; H. D. St. John,
25; D. R. Stone, ’24; F. A. Sutherland, ’22; Edgar
Sydenstricker, 07; J. C. Thom; Jessie Tow, ’24; Page
Treadway, Jr., ’30; Randolph E. Tyrrel, ’20; W. R.
Vance, "96; E. B. Vinson, ’22; T. Carleton Walters,
’'27; William Webster, 712; Morris G. Welch, ’21; H.
K. Young, ’17; B. C. Bowe.

 

ALUMNI DINNER IN PHILADELPHIA

Washington and Lee Alumni, their wives, parents
of students now in college, and guests, assembled in
the red room of the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel for a de-
lightful dinner on Monday evening, November 16.

EF. Waring Wilson, ’94, presided. Dr. F. P.
Gaines was the speaker of the evening.

Those present were Dr. and Mrs. F. P. Gaines,
H. K. (“Cy”) Young, Mrs. William A. Glasgow and
Mrs. Elliott ; parents of students now in the University,
G. H. Snyder, Dr. and Mrs. S. S. Woody, Mr. and Mrs.
S. M. Greenwood, Mr. and Mrs. R. O. Forsyth, and the
following alumni:

E. Waring Wilson, ’94, wife and daughter; Lyn-
wood R. Holmes, ’02, and wife; E. W. G. Boogher, ’02;
J. F. Bullitt, ’78; H. J. Cox, ’31; G. B. Craddock, ’31;
F. S. Johnson, ’12, and wife; J. G. Herndon, *12, and
wife; G. H. Snyder, ’31; A. Seeley, ’31; J. M. Raines,
16; H. C. Robert, Jr., ’22, and wife; Francis W. Plow-
man, ’24; C. C. Tutwiler, "98; D.G. Wolfe, ’32; Charles
Young, ’02; F. T. Bready, ’31; 5. H. Baker, ’16, and
wife; W. T. Neel, ’11; J. C. Clark, ’31; W. J. Wil-

cox, 12, and wife.

 

One hundred and sixty-two seniors have applied
for degrees this year. This number is twenty less than
last year.

[ 18 ]

 

tT 2 A i AJ iM UN

me WA aS A oe ae ee

 

———

W.& L. Gridiron Stock Hits New High

mmm] 11,SON FIELD’S formidable gates are locked
until the start of spring football practice in
March, but talk of the gridiron has not died

out on the Washington and Lee campus for two good

the Indians’ ten yard line, but a third down pass was
intrecepted. In the last period Mattox and Bailey
bucked to William and Mary’s 20 mark again, but lost
the ball on downs. The great Indian offense was

reasons: The Generals’ 1931 sea-
son was so successful that you
have to go back half a dozen years
to match it, and the Big Four title
was annexed for the first time
since who-can-remember.

Add to this a strong 1931
freshman team and it is easy to
see why Washington and Lee
gridiron stock has reached a new
high on that quotation board call-
ed “student opinion.” Just when
it seemed that the Generals were
in danger of being fourth in the
Big Four, the prodigal Jimmie
DeHart returned dramatically
from the deeper South and—in
his honor—Virginia, V. P. I, and
Princeton suddenly became over-
stuffed calves.

After three years with but
one major victory, the recent sea-
son seemed like a national cham-
pionship at Washington and Lee,
and the celebration thereof was
spirited. ‘The concensus is that
“they’ve just begun to fight,”
that greater things are ahead.

In the last issue, this maga-
zine was able to report the turn
of the season, when Washington
and Lee’s eleven swarmed over
Virginia to win 18 to O—a victory
which was not predicted after
three successive defeats.

The following Saturday the
Generals journeyed to Norfolk to
engage William and Mary, then
supposed to be the strongest
team in the State. Playing for

A Team Without a Song

No one in Lexington disagrees with
this comment which F. Petrie Hamilton,
97, has discovered in a column in the New
Orleans States:

“The Man Without A Country” had
nothing on Tulane . . . it’s a team without
a song... one of the greatest football
outfits of all times will probably go to the
Rose Bowl with a usurped fight song...
can’t somebody, at sometime, get inspired
and write a real swing for Tulane? ...
that Washington and Lee swing is the stuff

. . there is no doubt about it . . . but give
to Ceasar the things that are Ceasar’s and let
W. and L. have what belongs to them...
the “Swing” is theirs, body and soul, and
they should have it... it’s bad enough
the “Hullabaloo” was taken from Texas,
but it’s worse that the Tulane Swing is not
the Tulane Swing at all . . . please some-
body get inspired and write a fight song for
Tulane .. . such a great team deserves it.

“God Save the King” and “America”
are the same tunes, that’s why “The Star-
Spangled Banner’ written by an inspired
Francis Scott Key, is the national anthem
.. . Yale has it’s “Boola-boola” ... Navy
has its “Anchors Aweigh” ... Maine has
its “Stein Song” . . . Loyola has its “Men
of the South’ ... Washington and Lee
has its “Swing . . . why in hell can’t
Tulane have its individual and original
fight song? ... the greatest team in the
nation deserves it... forget the “Swing”

. never play it . . . Tulane has its own
beautiful “Alma Mater.” Come to the res-
cue somebody, and win undying fame.

turned into a stubborn defense,
W. and L. making 12 first downs
to 5. Bailey’s marvelously plac-
ed punts, several of which stop-
ped just short of the goal, were
great features.

With the dope bucket now
wobbling, the Blue and White
were able to upset it again the
following Saturday. Journeying
to the neutral battle ground of
Roanoke, they gave away 20
pounds per man and outplayed
the Techmen from Blacksburg,
winning 6 to 0 when Sawyers
grabbed on enemy pass and
sprinted 86 yards to score. This
occurred in the second quarter,
and before the half ended the
Generals penetrated the enemy’s
10 marker, but were held. For
the rest of the game they con-
tended themselves with an im-
pregnable defense, and let V. P.
I. pile up 10 first downs to their
own 9. Casey, Groth and the
other vaunted Gobblers were
stopped effectively, and usually
on their own side of the 50 yard
line.

Bailey’s great punting was
a large factor in Washington and
Lee’s advantage. The forward
wall was at the height of its sea-
son, and Sawyers established
himself as a threat from any-
where on the field. The Gen-
erals’ comeback was shown to be
the real article—no imitation.
And V. P. I. was conquered for

the first time in the vicinity of many Tidewater alumni,
Washington and Lee was also meeting the Indians
for the first time. ‘The battle was a bitter scoreless
tie in which the Generals were conceded the edge by
all the newspapers.

In the first period Mattox, Bailey and Sawyers
drove 75 yards to lose the ball on downs a few feet
from the goal. Before the half ended they were on

the first time since 1926, assuring Washington and Lee
of the Big Four championship.

Then came Princeton. Despite three upsets in a
row, few would concede the Generals a chance against
the Tiger—even though the Tiger seemed a little tooth-
less this season. It seems that every Washington and
Lee alumnus from the metropolitan area was in the
stands at Palmer Field to see a game which will go

[ 19 ]

 

ca 2 A ih A}. oN 2

 

down in the book with a handful of other historic con-
quests when Washington and Lee stepped out of its
class to win.

The supreme thrill came in the second quarter
when Bailey and Mattox ripped through the Orange
and Black from their own 30 yard line deep into Prince-
ton’s territory. Mattox’s pass—Washington and Lee’s
first and only one of the contest—was nabbed by Saw-
yers whose fleet feet crossed the goal just-like-that. The
six tu nothing margin was then upheld by a great de-
fensive fight, which let Princeton get 9 first downs to
the Generals’ 4.

The metropolitan newspapers gave the Generals
credit for whipping an improved Princeton team. Wash-
ington and Lee was acclaimed in Virginia for being the
first state team to conquer an out-of-state enemy. ‘Two
newspapers wrote editorial congratulations.

Up in College Park the University of Maryland
gridders were having their greatest season in years,
and they proved too tough to take the following Sat-
urday. A great back named Poppleman ran _ wild.
They had two plays which repeatedly gained heavy
yardage. On one Poppleman would dash off the un-
guarded tackle. The other was a tricky backfield pass
—barely five yards long—which few teams could exe-
cute. With a crowd of Maryland’s championship
basketballers in the backfield, they did it perfectly.

Still, losing 7 to 13, Washington and Lee made
a better showing than most of Maryland’s opponents.
Whipped though they were, the Generals ironically
might have won in the last quarter when long passes
were dribbling through eager Washington and Lee
fingers. It was fleet Joe Sawyers, again, who took
everyone's eye in the second half to intercept a Mary-
land pass and escort it 60 yards across the goal line.
Great defensive stands and brilliant punting by Bailey
prevented the Maryland score from getting larger, and
long last minute passes barely missed completion and a
tie or victory for the Generals. _

The season was topped off at Wilson Field against
Duke in a scrappy defensive fight. Both teams were
primed to the bursting point, so that but eight first
downs were made. The Generals got three in the first
half and Duke got four. In the second half Duke got
one on a penalty.

Both side agreed that it should have been a score-
less tie, but a little back named Mason took the opening
kick-off of the second half and dashed 88 yards to a
touchdown, Duke winning 6 to 0. It was the only
uneven performance of the game. Both teams threaten-
ed in the first half, but the last was nothing but a
punting duel.

Thus the Big Four champions ended their season—
after bulling the Generals football market so that every-
one awaits the coming year with additional hope and
pleasure. A great quartet, whose spirit is given credit
by Coach De Hart for doing the impossible, is lost.

MA GAZI N BM

Frank Bailey and Pat Mitchell, co-captains, and Wilbur

Mattox and Earl Tilson have played their last football —

game. But there are seven men returning who just

played their first collegiate season—six sophomores and

a junior. Too, there are other promising sophomores

who saw action this year and a great squad of freshmen.
It looks bad for the bears.

 

AL PIEROTTI, ’17, IN RING-TUM PHI

The following very interesting letter from A] _
Pierotti, is republished with the consent of the Ring-
tum Phi, it having appeared in its issue of Novem-
ber 24. a
Williams School
Chelsea, Mass
Nov. 17, 1931.
Editor of Ring-tum Phi,

Washington and Lee Univ.,
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

For the first time since I was an active player at _
Washington and Lee University, I watched with —
great pleasure the playing of a game of football by a —
representative group of Fighting Generals. Being sur-
rounded by some of my former team mates it seemed as
though we were waiting for the Coach to send one of
us into the game to make a substitution or the like. I
was greatly enthused with everything about me. There
were the familiar faces of “Cy” Young, “Dick” Smith —
and others who were there in former years. The watch-
ing of our boys in the preliminary workout surrounded
by thirty or forty members of the Princeton squad
caused me to recall to “Cy” the day at Cornell in 1915
when after our small squad of twenty players had gone
through a warming-up period, we watched the first
team come on the field and presently another team
came and then another team came on and then another
team came on and by the time the sixth team came on
the field, we were so eager to get out there and do
battle for W. and L,. that we all stood up and shouted
“bring them on” and presently two more teams came
on the field. For we players it was a day of days and
before the first fifteen minutes of play had passed fif-
teen thousand Cornell rooters were standing on their
seats shouting, ‘““Hold them Cornell.” Up to this day
that game is still remembered. Had we had but a few re-
placements the score would not have been in favor of
Cornell but the “Fighting Generals.”” That same feel-
ing came over me at the sight of the W. and L. boys
on that field at Princeton last Saturday.

It seems that they too were imbued with the same
feeling for they showed the old fighting spirit of which
we of the old guard are so familiar. The boys should
feel proud of the manner in which they forced a much
bigger and heavier Princeton team take a defeat. Never

[ 20 }

Tt =o

once did the boys give up any ground without fighting
back. If W. and L,. had not been successful in the out-
come I am sure that everyone of the Alumni present
would have been just as proud of them.

There is only one constructive criticism that I
would like to offer to the Cheer Leader and that is as
follows: I, like many of the others wanted to join in
the organized cheering but we were not familiar with
the new cheers and therefore we had to cheer in our
own individual way, but if the Cheer Leader had called
for one of the old cheers as the “Long Yell for the
Team” I dare say that every one of the old grads would
have felt at home and there would have been more of
a response. Don’t forget that we fellows still have that
feeling to cheer the team on. I would suggest that you
add old cheers when the team visits other cities so that
we men who find it a hard task to sit still and want a
noise in an organized group can join in.

I am giving you an idea of how I felt watching a
W. and L,. football team for the first time since I end-
ed my playing days at W. and L., and I believe some of
the others present felt the same way.

I have been trying to hang up my shoes and say
that I have played enough but every year when the sea-
son rolls around my shoes keep falling down and I just
have to get into a game so that I won’t get away from
the warpath. This year I have played in my 252nd
game of football which began back in 1910 and it seems
that the shoes will not fall off the big nail next year
and I will confine my playing in the stands cheering for
the Big Blue and White.

Wishing Coach J. DeHart and the team success in
their remaining games, I am

Very truly yours,
AL PIEROTTI

P. S. Someday when I wrestle in Washington or
Richmond I am going to pay a visit to Lexington. I
may want to attend a few more classes in Spanish III
or French IV.

Editor’s Note: Al Pierotti, one of Washington
and Lee’s “athletic greats,” won varsity monograms in
football, basketball, track and baseball while attending
school here in 1914, ’15, °16, and *17. He is considered
the greatest center to ever play in the Big Blue line.
The 1917 team honored him with the captaincy, as did
the baseball team of ’16, for which he pitched. On the
track team he put the shot and on the basketball team
he held down one of the guard positions. It was Pier-
otti, pitching for the Boston Braves in 1921, who ruin-
ed the pennant hopes of the New York Giants by de-
feating them in a close game near the end of the season.

 

Dr. S. H. Moffatt, of the English Department, was
appointed by Dr. Gaines to represent Washington and
Lee at the inauguration of President Frank Graham, of
the University of North Carolina, on November 11th.

Aa A am WN -2

m A Gh mM 2 2 Oe Se

LETTERS GIVEN 21 GENERALS

Football monograms were presented to twenty-one
members of the 1931 Washington and Lee football
team at the annual banquet attended by a large number
of alumni and faculty members. At the same time the
1932 schedule was announced.

Recipients of the varsity monograms represented
ten States. Freshmen numerals also were presented
to twenty-one players who likewise were from ten States
and student managers for the next year were appointed.
Brief talks were made by President Francis P. Gaines
and by coaches and R. A. Smith, director of athletics.

Frank Bailey and Pat Mitchell, who acted as co-
captains during the season, by appointment, were
formally elected to these honorary posts by the team
members when they retired to a side room during the
banquet. ‘The freshmen named Charles C. Smith their
honorary captain.

Mr. Smith announced the following 1932 schedule:

September 24—Open.

October 1—Davidson at Davidson.

October 8—Navy at Annapolis.

October 15—Kentucky at Lexington, Ky.

October 22—William and Mary at Norfolk or
here.

October 29—V. P. I. at Roanoke or here.

November 5—Virginia at Charlottesville.

November 12—West Virginia at Charleston.

November 19—Maryland here.

November 26—Duke at Durham.

Varsity monograms were awarded to R. A. Morris,
Jr., Kenova, W.Va.; C. E. Tilson, Whiteflat, Texas; E.
A. Bacon, Charleston, W. Va.: S. S. Mosovich, Tren-
ton, N. J.; F. R. Bailey, Hunt ngton, W. Va.; W. G.
Grove, Jr., Ronceverte, W. Va.; J. M. Boland, Charles-
ton, W. Va.; A. A. Bolen, Ashland, Ky.; E. A. Nesbitt,
Dallas, Texas; Patrick Mitchell, Portsmouth, Ohio; F.
G. Almon, Pensacola, Fla.; E. P. Martin, Baltimore,
Md.; S. H. Wilson, Richmond, Va.; W. W. Mattox,
Leesville, Va.; J. H. Sawyers, Oak Hill, W. Va.; A.
H. Wofford, Johnson City, Tenn.; W. H. Wertz,
Wooster, Ohio; S. B. Steves, San Antonio, Texas;
Harvey Pride, Decatur, Ala.; N. R. Collins, Covington,
Virginia.

A manager’s monogram was awarded to J. F.
Ladd of Mobile, Ala., and J. R. Ryland of Richmond,
was named varsity manager for 1932. He will have
F. L. Patton of Hawthorne, N. J., as junior assistant
with M. L. Harris of Tunica, Miss., as alternate.

Freshman numerals were awarded to the following :

A. L. Colinsky, Norfolk; Louis W. Martin, Rich-
mond; Sam Mattox, Leesville; Harry Lough, Waynes-
boro; Charles C. Smith, Jacksonville, Fla.; Sam Todd,
Lakeland, Fla.; R. E. Field, Miami, Fla.; George
Glynn and Irving Gerber, Brooklyn, N. Y.; William
McDonald, Memphis, Tenn. ; William H. Dyer, Johnson

[ 21}

a ee. A ch Al ae ON
City, Tenn.; J. P. Jones, Cleveland, Tenn.; C. P. Car-
men, ‘T'amroy, W. Va.; Herman Ruffner and William
Seaton, Charleston, W. Va.; Ben F. Medley, Owens-
boro, Ky.; Jay Henthorne, Ashland, Ky.; R. D. Tur-
pin, Centreville, Md.; John Mendolia, Camden, Ark. ;
William R. Fox, Wayne, Pa.; and Hubert Nash, Spar-
tanburg, South Carolina.

 

HIGH POSITION IN AERONAUTICS

Richard S. Paulett, ’20 , has been appointed chief
of the aeronautics branch, Departmentof Commerce.

Mr. Paulett came to Washington and Lee from
Farmville, Virginia in 1915, left college in 1917 to

- genes + ee ee = - - -- ee

op oo

:
:

 

join the army and was in training for the air service
when the armistice was signed. He then returned to
the University and completed his preparation for the
legal profession, receiving his LL.B. in 1920. Follow-
ing his graduation from Washington and Lee he prac-
ticed law in Richmond, Va.

Mr. Paulett has been connected with the Commerce
Department since 1928, at which time he moved to
Washington and became chief of the licensing section.
In 1929 he was made assistant to Mr. Elmer McD.
Kints, chief of the aeronautics branch of the depart-
ment, and his advancement was occasioned by the decis-
ion of Mr. Kintz to enter upon the practice of law

I

N EB.

el

MA G&G MA we

in New York City.

Mr. Paulett is a member of the bars of Virginia
and the District of Columbia, the American Bar Asso- ~
ciation, Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity and holds the
rank of captain in the air corps reserve. His duties
will include holding hearings on cases involving denial,
suspension or revocation of pilot and aircraft licenses,
drafting aeronautical legislation and acting as legal
adviser to the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Aeronautics.

While at Washington and Lee Mr. Paulett was a
member of Kappa Alpha, social fraternity, Phi Delta
Phi, Cotillion Club, Pi Alpha Nu, “13”, Kappa Beta
Phi, S. and C., and president of the Junior Law Class.

 

W.C. HALL HAMED ON COMMITTEE

Wilbur C. Hall, Leesburg, Va., has been named —
one of a committee of five composed of alumni of 7
Washington and Lee University who will represent
the university at the celebration which the Washington
Society of Alexandria plans to hold some time during
next year to commemorate Washington’s gift to Alex-
andria Academy. Others named on the committee with
Mr. Hall are F. W. King, Alexandria, Va.; Judge D.
Lawrence Groner, Washington, D. C.; Wade H. Ellis,
Washington, D. C.; and Dr. Matthew Page Andrews,
Baltimore, Md.

Washington and Lee University and Alexandria
Academy are the two surviving institutions which are
mentioned in Washington’s will as objects of his edu-
cational philanthropy. Due to this the two institutions
will join in the celebration, the date of which will be
announced later.

William Buckner McGrorarty is president of the
society planning the celebration.

 

FROM JUDGE McDERMOTT
14, Nov. ’3l
My Dear Young:

Once, nearly fifty years ago, I was a football —
Now I am a trustee of Washington and Lee ~
University. I could not be at Princeton today, but
my heart was there. Over the telephone I have learned
of our victory. Last night you said if we won today,
football at Washington and Lee was made. We won!
Keep the sport clean, play hard, play fair. I congratu-
late our team. Please give this message to each of
them.

player.

Sincerely,
Cuas. J. McDERMoTT?T

 

William Hill Brown, Jr., is with the legal de-
partment of the Southern Railway, Washington, D. C.

 

F. M. Thompson, ’21, is now living in Garahuns,
Pernambuco, Brazil.

[ 22 ]

 

| ow

ee, eee ee ae,

ma & G A. 24 & Bee

 

——

Washington and Lee Indoor Sports

will be carried by General Varsities in thirty-
six different contests in swimming, boxing,
wrestling, and basketball, comprising the mid-winter
indoor sports card. The Generals’ fresh-
men squads will be seen in twenty contests
in these same sports. Basketball comes in
for the lion’s share of the schedule, eight-
een games having been arranged for the
varsity; the schedule culminating in the
annual Southern Conference Basketball
Tournament to be held February 26 and 27.
Varsity wrestlers and boxers will be seen
in action six times each, while the swimmers
will have five meets.

Ten basketball tilts will be in the Dore-
mus Gymnasium, while eight will be away.
Two game series have been scheduled, on
a home and home basis, with the following
teams: Virginia, V. P. I., North Carolina
State, and Duke. The basketeers will take
five trips. the longest will be four days,
when they meet V. P. I., Duke, North Caro-
lina State, and North Carolina University.
A two day trip will take them to meet St.
Xavier and Kentucky, while one night visits
include games against Virginia and West
Virginia. All these games will be played on the op-
ponents’ home floors, with the exception of the West
Virginia game which is carded for Beckley, West
Virginia. In event that the Generals have a success-
ful season they will close the schedule with a two day
trip to the Southern Con-
ference Tournament.

Four wrestling match-
es will be viewed by local
fans, and two will be away.
Johns-Hopkins, V. P. L.,
Duke, and Army will be met
in Lexington. The boxing
schedule is split even, three
meets being planned for
home, and three away. The
boxers will get trips to
North Carolina University,
Maryland, and North Caro.
lina State. Two of the five
swimming meets will be
held for the benefit of the
Lexington fans, and the
aquators will visit William
and Mary, Virginia and

ab HE Washington and Lee blue and white colors

  

 

 

JARRETT

 

CoacH ELLERMAN

George Washington during the water season.

The climax of the wrestling season will be in the
final meet which will bring the General matmen against
the Army team. Last year the Generals made it a

clean sweep over the West Pointers, and it
is expected that this meet will be packed
with thrills this year, inasmuch as the Cadets
will be seeking revenge for the whitewash-
ing. The traditional rivals V. P. I. will
appear at Lexington in both the wrestling
and boxing, and they are expected to give
the Blue and White men a spirited evening
in both sports.

Coach Ellerman, the former Wisconsin
court star, will again lead the General
basketeers, and for the second season the

_ Washington and Lee basketball team will
use the famous Meanwell system. It was
under this noted coach that the Washington
and Lee mentor learned his ribbed court
antics, and won his fame as a hoopster.

The makeup of the varsity is very much
in doubt at the present time, but chief among
the contenders for positions are: Jarrett,
Violett, Taas, Sawyers, and Wilson ;—for-
wards; Bailey and Stienburg—centers ; and
Burke, Martin, Holbrooke, and Mosovich

—guards. Burke, Martin, and Bailey are the only

seniors on the squad. Jarrett, Violett, and Holbrooke
are the juniors, and the remaining men are only sopho-
mores. Mosovich, Stienburg, and Sawyers were out-
standing for the 1930-31 Brigadier General court team.

Sawyers, Bailey, Mosovich,

Martin, and Wilson, all

were letter men on _ this
years’ varsity football team.

Ellerman is having his

greatest difficulty filling the
center position, but the ad-
vent of Griewank, giant
center, who will not be eligi-
ble until after the semester,
is expected to assist in the
solution of this problem.
The last season was the
most disastrous for three
years, taken from a stand-
point of Conference stand-
ings. The Generals ranked
fifth in conference stand-
ing, but were undefeated in
the State. The loss of

 

BURKE

[ 23 ]

cee ae Pi ccesdetsircithihesicielinaink

Barasch, Williams, and Cox will be felt by the court
men. Ellerman has Leigh Williams who starred in
football, basketball, and track for four years at the
Generals’ school to assist him in the coaching of the
1931-32 court edition of the Blue and White.

Coach Mathis will
have only two new men in
his wrestling lineup, ac-
cording to all indicati ns.
Last year the grapp: rs
won meets and
They scored 176
points to the opponents 22,

aoe es
S1X iost

none.

and were acclaimed as the
Southern Conference
champions on a basis of
their records. Assisting
Coach Mathis this year
will be his brother, Wayne
Mathis, who was the 155
pound champion of the
Southern Conference last
year, and who won eleven
inatches without a loss in
two years’ competition.
Evans, who won four
and lost two last year will be seen in the 115 pound
group. Abramson, who won five and lost one, last
year, will be the 125 pound wrestler. Osterman, who
won five in the 135 pound division, and lost one in the
145 pound group, last year, will grapple 145
pounders, to take the
place of Thomas,
who won six meets
in the 145 and 155

pound divisions last

MARTIN

year, and who has
moved to the heavier
division definitely,
for this season. Pat
Mitchell will again
grace the unlimiteds.
Last year he won all
his meets,
taken

five of
not having
part in one contest.
Nelson Thomas of
last year’s. frosh
team will take Oster-
man’s place in the
He won all four of his matches as

 

Evans

135 pound group.
a member of the yearlings.
gram man two years ago, but was ineligible last year,
will take Tex Tilson’s place in the 175 pound division.

Tex Tilson, assistant to Jimmie DeHart in foot-
ball, will make his debut as boxing coach this year.
Previously he was very successful as both boxing and

Flagg who was a mono-

I

 

 

CoacH MATHIS

Picea in’ aD cine cinicadldinicinieecaaimanae man
wrestling coach at Duke. His attempts to better Bus
Malone’s last year’s record of four wins and two losses
will be watched with interest. ‘The 1931 mittmen lost
to a Tilson coached Duke squad, and to V. P. I. They
number wins over North Carolina State, and St. Johns,
and two wins over Mary-
land.

Tilson will have vet-
erans in almost every
weight. The 115 pounders
of the opponents will have
to take their maulings
from Joe “Robbie” Rob-
his
fights as a varsity man last
year, and went to the
Southern Conference
semi-finals. During the

credited

with five knockouts, and
one win by a decision. The
125 pound division which
was held by Schlossburg
last year will have to be
filled with a new man.
Surlowitz, who won four
and lost two last year will again grace the 135 pound
division. McKinney, who won two bouts last year,
but lost the others on a series of the worst kind of
breaks, is expected to appear in the 145 pound group.
The 160 pound division, in all probability,
will be taken care of
by J. Pound, who
won five and _ lost
one last season, and
was a_ semi-finalist
in the Southern Con-
ference tournament.
Tex Tilson, Jr., who
was a wrestler last
year, but who trans-
activities

ertson who won all

season he was

HOLBROOKE

ferred his
to his brother’s sport,
and Collins of last
year’s freshman
team will be the chief
contenders for the
175 pound division,
while the unlimited
class is as yet open.
It is possible that Mitchell will box in the unlimited class.

The aquators who have been undergoing stiff work-
outs under the tutelage of Coach Twombly are round-
ing into shape rapidly, and there is some keen compe-
tition among the members of the squad as to who will
represent the University in some of the events. Ina
recent Varsity-Freshman meet held, the following men

 

OsTERMAN

[ 24 ]

 

 

ABRAMSON

composed the varsity team: Relay—More-
land, Nichols, Cohen, and Rivers. Dives—
Walker and Rivers. 50-yard dash—Rivers,
Moreland, and Nichols. Breaststroke
Nuckols, Zachary, and Sterns. Back-
stroke—Nichols and Moody.  100-yard
dash—Rivers, Moreland, and Cohen. 220-
yard dash—Cohen, Wallace and Harriss.

Several of the runners of the track
team are working out, and it is expected
that if a relay team can be developed that
shows promise, Coach Fletcher will enter
them into the Southern Conference In-
door meet. However, there will not be any
regular indoor track this season, and the
usual meet with Virginia has been cancelled.

Another sport may be added to the
program at Washington and Lee, if the en-
thusiasm of the sixty students who formed

 

 

ROBERTSON

MITCHELL

McKINNEY

 

COLLINS

[ 25 ]

 

 

WOFFORD ‘THOMAS

the Rifle Club under the head of Dr. Stowe,
and affiliated with the American Rifle
Association does not wane. They were given
the permission of the Athletic Association
to represent the University in meets, and are
busy at the present soliciting financial means
from the members of the club to purchase
the necssary rifles, targets, and ammunition.
If they are successful in securing the neces-
sary funds, they will schedule several
meets.

Taking into consideration the present
financial depression (psychological or
otherwise) which has made deep inroads
into the gate receipts of all sports, and the
cut in budget that was necessary, the mid-
winter program of Washington and Lee
sports will stand up with that of any eastern
collegiate institution. It is estimated that

 

SURLOWITZ PouND

eee

iss a a ee a

a AG. A Zhe ee

 

about two hundred different men will be on the various
squads throughout the winter.

WINTER Sports SCHEDULES

Wrestling

Date Opponent Place
December 12—Johns-Hopkins University............ Here
January 16—North Carolina University ............ There
January 30—Davidson .0......:.......cccccssssssecsssssseeee There
NE Cee RE EE, ;..........-cacinvaviesipissosneasb with Here
Pe RERUNS ............. Zenipssdbbmcsssasiiacetecseds Here
BUN CLLa,.............,dahsepvsbsuptacsabensipvoness Here

| Basketball

Date Opponent Place.
December 14—Shawnee Club .......0...0000cc eee Here
December 15—Salem ....................c:ccssccssscesscessceenes Here
SOE Fook, TOI os 533.225 <5.-4. ceeding Here
January 12—Lenoir Rhyne .................eee Here
jaeiary: 25— Maryan ..........0..6. ci acteeanteenncecae Here
JORUREY: FO VITOR, 3i-00.0:0.-----c2<gcraeeen oe There
FREY Be Vu the: snoehnnys--a0:---n-cbteeehesegeey anata Here
SADUREY Zook TEMIOE | op cccs----+-+s:5c5 eee orl There
January 3O—RemguCKY  <....;..-...2.........-cccthan..- cock There
February 2—North Carolina State .........00000000. Here
BNE FI nn re ccvecsercssssecsnsvacnnespabenas-vb- ol Here
February 6—West Virginia ................ Beckley, W. Va.
February 11—William and Mary ..............0....... Here
SNM YE Serta 6 B= aes casicssccnsnt ccs pabnagta-onenenieodl There
Re UIS cas cvenptncooirys) (easbagvesneasecivgeses coll There
February 19—North Carolina State .......00..0..0.... There
February 20—North Carolina University ............ There
RD OV TTD css nss seus ccvecgsesencsenneorsvos ile Here

Febraury 26-27—Basketball tournament
Southern Conference

Boxing

Date Opponent Place
January 9—RoanoKe .....................-ccssccesscesseessseeseees Here
January 16—North Carolina University ............ There
 rerrees FORTIS ............<cpsssdecverssddophtcanpssenees Here.
February 6—Maryland ......0......... cece eeeeeeeeeees There
February 12—North Carolina State .................... There
EO UPAR A, ............ Suabounsatpuae/oapenglaaenaean Here

Swimming

Date Opponent Place
February 5—William and Mary .................... There
SOCTERIES TCPPEMNEIED, ............ Sescnpnascntecirostnapavipeates There
AE 0 EI; .......:.....- Suaabpasiaegh embastgasesesees Here
February 20—Johns-Hopkins University ............ Here
February 27—George Washington ...................... There

 

Ray Smith, °16, and his wife were visitors at the
Alumni office early in December:

W. AND L. HIGHLIGHTS

1749—Augusta Academy was the name given the
school sponsored by the Scotch-Irish immigrants in
the Virginia Valley. Robert Alexander was the first
principal. He was succeeded bythe Rev. John Brown.

1776—In this year the school was renamed Liberty
Hall and in 1780 it was moved to Lexington under the
supervision of the Rev. William Graham, a graduate
of Princeton University.

1782—The school was incorporated by the Virginia
Assembly under the title of Liberty Hall Academy
through the influence of the Rev. Mr. Graham, The
sponsor was buried near Lee Chapel on the present
University campus.

1798—Liberty Hall Academy became the Wash-
ington Academy after the great American pledged
$50,000 in stock for the institution. The interest from
the gift still comes to the University as an annual in-

come of $3,000.

1813—The Virginia Assembly altered the corporate
name to Washington Academy, its designation until
after the death of Robert E. Lee.

1865—General Lee became president of the college
to serve until his death in 1870.

1871—After General Lee’s death, the name of the
college was changed to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. The first president under the new title was
General G. W. Custis Lee, who followed his illustrious
father and served until he retired in 1896.

 

THE PASSING OF THE GRIDGRAPH

The gridgraph, once witnessed by enthusiastic
audiences in the gymnasium, as out-of-town football
games were reported play by play, has decreased in
popularity as the novelty has worn off. The handful
of spectators who witnessed the report of the Mary-
land game on November 21, probably saw the last
performance, and the expensive apparatus will be junk-
ed or sold if a purchaser can be found.

 

Captain H. C. Getzen-Danner, ’79, writes us that
in June he paid his second visit to Washington and Lee
since 1879. He says: “My first visit twenty years ago,
reunion of Graves students. Rowed on the Albert
Sidneys, 2 starboard in 1879, 1 1-2 miles up stream.
This year I witnessed contest, four-oared sculls one
mile down steam. Our contest in 1879 was in six-
oared sculls, 1 1-2 miles up steam. Saw only one of the
old students of °79, Hunter McDonald, eminent en-
gineer.”

[ 26 ]

 

T

———

AL -—A---N---d

M.-A--G A -Z.- I--N-—-3

Intra-murals Growing in Popularity

Washington and Lee has gotten well under
way. From the highly successful season the
intra-murals had last year, and the indications for a
more successful season this year, it appears that they
are here for a permanent stay, and will take their place
among the University activities. Intra-mural athletics,
the brain child of Coach Fletcher, assisted by Coaches
Mathis, and ‘!wombly, is now almost completely in
the hands of the student body, who elects two fraternity
men, and one non-fraternity man, to serve with the three
coaches in the physical education department on a board
to regulate intra-mural athletic activities. All matters
of policy, all protests, all schedules, and similiar impor-
tant functions are handled by this board which is pre-
dominated by the student members.

Last year five hundred and thirty-two different
individuals representing twenty fraternities and two
non-fraternity organizations were entered in the ten
different competitive events scheduled. The Kappa
Alpha fraternity were intra-mural champions last sea-
son. its members amassing a total of one hundred ninety
and a half points. They were awarded a beautiful
silver loving cup emblem as a reward. The highest
individual point man was J. W. Cochrane, of the Kappa
Alpha fraternity. He totaled eighty-two points. The
Kappa Alpha fraternity also furnished more men for
the various teams than any other organization.

Two additional events have been added to the
program for this year, making a total of twelve sports
scheduled for 1931-1932. The program last year in-
cluded the following sports: Touch football, wrestling,
handball, swimming, boxing, basketball, track, tennis,
baseball, and golf. This year horseshoes and volley
ball were added to the foregoing program.

While the primary purpose of intra-mural athletics
is to get a majority of the student body to particpate in
some sport or another, and to give them a chance that
would not ordinarily be accorded them in varsity
athletics, this phase of college athletic activity has in
many cases assisted the varsity coaches by uncovering
latent ability in men who would never have been avail-
able for varsity squads, were it not for the intra-mural
activity.

It is of utmost importance today that the colleges
and universities answer the challengers of varsity ath-
letics, who claim that overemphasis is being placed on
the athletic teams, and underemphasis on the participa-
tion of a majority of the student body in some sport
or another. It is with the simple and effective plan of
intra-mural athletics, governed almost entirely by the
members of the student body, that the Physical Educa-

ap HE second season of intra-mural athletics at

 

tional Department of Washington and Lee meets this
challenge.

Although the intra-mural board is assisted by the
three members of the faculty of Physical Education,
participation in intra-mural athletics is in no way com-
pulsory, nor does it add any credit to any student’s
physical education grade. The departments are con-
nected only in that the heads of the Physical Education
Department act as advisers to the heads of the Intra-
mural Board. However, the classes in physical edu-
cation are usually given instruction +during class
time, by the Physical Education faculty members in the
various sports on the program of the Intra-mural Board.

The spirit of competition among the different fra-
ternities and other organizations, adds the zest of com-
petition to particiaption in these sports events, and many
times keen battles result. About two hundred students
and members of the faculty attended the finals of the
wrestling tournament, held in the gym before the
Christmas holidays. As much interest and spirit was
displayed by the spectators as in regularly scheduled
varsity meets.

The fraternity organizations that took part last
year, and the number of men each entered are as fol-
low:

Alpha Chi Rho, 21; Alpha Tau Omega, 27; Beta
Theta Pi, 28; Delta Tau Delta, 19; Delta Upsilon, 27;
Kappa Alpha, 33; Kappa Sigma, 24; Lambda Chi Al-
pha, 22; Phi Delta Theta, 28; Phi Epsilon Pi, 20; Phi
Gamma Delta, 16; Phi Kappa Sigma, 31; Phi Kappa
Psi, 22; Pi Kappa Alpha, 31; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
26; Sigma Chi, 25; Sigma Nu, 29; Sigma Phi Epsilon,
17; Zeta Beta Tau, 18. ‘The two non-fraternity organi-
zations entered were: Cats Whiskers, 10; and Touring
Tigers, 32.

This year there are twenty-one organizations enter-
ed, the two non-fraternity organizations going together
to form one powerful club, that is leading the 1931-’32
contest so far, with a total of seventy points. The Kap-
pa Alphas are second with a total of sixty-two and a
half points.

Too much credit cannot be given Coaches Fletcher,
Mathis, and Twombly for the effort they have expend-
ed in fostering the growth of this infant activity on the
Washington and Lee campus. They have given freely
of their time and energy to make this new project a
success, and from all indications their efforts will be
well rewarded.

 

Mr. and Mrs. P. M. (“Si”) Schuchart, ’26, have
a daughter about two months old. Their address is
2120 N. Fifth St., Harrisburg, Pa.

[ 27 ]

ee ee

DEATHS

 

Dae c 4k ee ek

 

ILLNESS IS FATAL TO JUDGE WHITTLE

Judge Stafford G. Whittle, 69, former president
of the Virginia supreme court of appeals, died at his
home in Martinsville, Virginia, September 11, following
an attack of pneumonia. He was in his 82nd year.

Judge Whittle was born at “Woodstock,” the
Mecklenburg county home of his father, Captain W.
C. Whittle, a brother of Bishop F. M. Whittle and an
officer in the United States Navy until the outbreak of
the War Between the States, when he resigned to join
the Confederate navy. His mother was a daughter of
Commodore Arthur Sinclair of the United States Navy.

He was a grandson of General Richard Kennon,
prominent Virginian, who became the first military
governor of Louisiana after that territory was acquired
by the United States from France.

Judge Whittle’s early education was obtained in
the schools of Norfolk and in Mecklenburg county.

As a young man he moved with the family to
Norfolk but left the city with his brothers and sisters
after his mother’s death during the yellow fever plague
there in the fifties. He settled in Bedford county,
later attending Washington College, (now Washington
and Lee University), during the presidency of General
Lee, and then the University of Virginia, from which
he was graduated in law, being admitted to the bar in
1871.

Judge Whittle began his practice as a lawyer in
Martinsville. After ten years he was appointed judge
of the fourth judicial circuit court to fill the unexpired
term of Judge Berryman Green, resigned. The Dem-
ocratic caucus of the general assembly of 1882 nominat-
ed him to succeed himself but he was defeated by the
readjuster element. In 1885 he was elected, however,
for an eight-year term.

After declining an invitation to become dean of the
law school at Washington and Lee, following the death
of Judge Randolph Tucker, Judge Whittle was elected
to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia 1901,
succeeding Judge John W. Riley, He was reelected
for subsequent terms, serving until December 30, 1919,
when he retired.

Two of Judge Whittle’s sons, Kennon C., ’14, and
Randolph G., ’24, are well known alumni of Washington
and Lee.

 

Davis DeLeon Moise, ’01, died at his home in
Sumter, S. C., on November 22, 1931.

 

Joshua E. Senft, a graduate of the class of 1900,
died July 12th at his home in Columbia, Penn.

M A -G A 2 <1 - ee

JOHN W. POPE

John Walker Pope, who was at Washington and
Lee in 1919, died in St. Luke’s Hospital in New York
on November 12, following an operation. He was
32 years old.

Giving an account of Mr. Pope’s activities the
New York Times says:

Mr. Pope who was a member of the Stock Ex-
change and the founder and head of two successful
management trust companies, the Research Investment
Corporation and Equity Investment Corporation, later
merged into the Equity Corporation, had offices at
120 Broadway. He resided at 1100 Park Avenue.

Mr. Pope was little known up to the time of the
falling market in October, 1929. He was generally
believed in Wall Street to have accumulated a substan-
tial fortune as a result of his activities on the short
side of the market. Mr. Pope, however, never com-
mitted himself publicly as to what position he was
taking.

Born at Little Rock, Ark., on April 25, 1899, he
spent most of his youth in Starkville, Miss.

Pope entered Washington and Lee in the fall of
1917 and remained here for the better part of two years.
He was not very well known and considered rather
eccentric and was dropped under the automatic rule for
failure in his classes. He went from here to the Uni-
versity of Alabama and then entered the Harvard
business school.

BECAME STATISTICIAN

Nine years ago on finishing there, according to
the newspaper dispatches, he went into business on
Wall Street with a capital of $1,000, with the position
of statistician in a brokerage firm. On his death as
stated he was reputed to have left an estate of $20,000,-
000. He left a wife and two small children.

One of Pope’s early ventures was to work up a
valuation on a well known stock then selling at several
hundred dollars a share and published the fact that
the stock was not worth ten dollars a share. For this
so-called “slander” of a stock he lost his job. While
searching for another job he would go to the park and
spend the day, returning home in the evening as though
he had finished a day’s work and not letting his familly
know of his predicament. He finally sold his stock
analysis to another firm and went into its employ.

His firm advised its customers to sell this stock
and a few months later it broke to the true valuation
that Pope had indicated and his success was made. His
opinions on stocks were highly respected.

In 1928 Mr. Pope had organized the Research In-
vestment Corporation and in 1929 the Equity Corpor-
ation. He was president of the two companies, and

[ 28 ]

 

,

- feo

their total assets at the end of 1930 were $4,171,860.
They were the only ones in the general trust category
which had shown no investments up to that time and
were among a small number which had made gains in
asset values last year.

In his annual report Mr. Pope asserted that the
companies were purely speculative. It was generally
believed in financial circles that the answer to both
puzzles—how they had made money and why the trust
owned no stock—were in the fact that he had been
selling the market short.

CLEARED BY STOCK EXCHANGE

In May, 1931, the two companies were merged,
adopting the name Equity Corporation, with Mr. Pope
as chairman of the board of the new company. Mr.
Pope was also a director of the Capital Administration
Company, the Broad Street Investing Company, and
Mason-Hagan, Inc., of Richmond, Va.

Last Spring Mr. Pope was called before the Stock
Exchange governing committee and asked to explain
charges that he had circulated rumors likely to under-
mine the market value of a certain security. As a re-
sult of the examination he was completely cleared of
all charges, and it was stated at that time that he had
cleared himself, not by denying he had circulated such
rumors, but by proving to the committee that the rumors
were amply justified.

 

WALTER T. CHANDLER, ’71

The Chicago Tribune of November 13 in report-
ing the death of Walter T. Chandler, ’71, said:

“Walter Temple Chandler, a partner and vice-pres-
ident of the wholesale grocery house of Franklin Mac-
Veagh & Co., died yesterday, November 12, in the Pas-
savant hospital after a short illness. He was seventy-
six years old.

“Mr. Chandler’s rise to executive position and
part ownership of the company was of the story book
type. When seventeen years old, and after a brief
service with EK. H. Noyes & Co., grain brokers, he
entered the employ of Mr. MacVeagh as an office boy.
He won steady promotion, becoming clerk, salesman,
department manager, and, in 1882, partner. In 1909
Mr. Chandler was named vice-president. He was
born in Rockbridge county, Va., and educated at pri-
vate schools, and Washington and Lee University. In
recent years Mr. Chandler, a bachelor, made his home
with William B. McCluer and several other friends
at 70 East Cedar street.

“Surviving Mr. Chandler are three sisters, Mrs.
Charles Nesser, Verlinda Porter and Lucy S. Chand-
ler, and a brother, L. Hamilton Chandler. Funeral
services will be held tomorrow, with burial in Grace-
land Cemetery.”

Mr. Chandler was a second son of Norbourne E.
Chandler of Fancy Hill. His mother was Lucy Maria

At A) oo ON

Mme & wa 2h. ae

Grigsby, a daughter of Captain Reuben Grigsby of
Hickory Hill. He was born March 5, 1855. He went
to Chicago and entered on his life’s career in 1871,
having finished a course of study at Washington and
Lee University. Mr. Chandler united with those fine
business qualities which enabled him to climb to suc-
cess in the stirring Chicago market, a singularly lovely
and attractive personality which endeared him to many
friends.

 

Edward Henry Hill, aged 21, a Junior in the En-
gineering School, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in
Stonewall Jackson Hospital, Saturday, October 31.

 

Horace Williams, ’16, was killed in an automobile
accident in Dallas, Texas, in November. He leaves a
wife and one child.

 

COMMISSION HOLDS FIRST MEETING

The Alumni Survey Commission appointed by
Dr. Francis P. Gaines held its first meeting at the
University, October 24. Ejight of the twelve alumni
appointees were present. Mr. Henry W. Anderson,
98, of Richmond, recent member of the Wickersham
Commission, was elected chairman, and Powell Glass,
07, Lynchburg, Va., editor, was made secretary.

The commission is an administrative measure for
investigating and advising the University as to the di-
rection it should take, and for formulating a definite
program of development. It is expected to define
Washington and Lee’s place in American higher edu-
cation.

Aims and objectives will occupy the first sub-
committee, of which Mr. Anderson is also chairman.
Working with him are Dr. J. W. Claudy, ’09, Pitts-
burg, Judge D. Lawrence Groner, ’92, Washington,
and Dr. James H. Dillard, ’76, Charlottesville, Va.

On the problem of “correlation and emphasis of
curriculum” Douglas S$. Anderson, 98, New Orleans,
will act as chairman, and will be assisted by Mr. Glass,
07, LeRoy Hodges, ’10, Richmond, and Dr. J. Morri-
son Hutcheson, ’02, Richmond.

“Administration” will be dealt with by a committee
headed by Dr. John M. Glenn, ’79, New York City.
Dr. Matthew Page Andrews, ’01, Baltimore, Wade
H. Ellis, 89, Washington, and W. R. Perkins, ’97,
New York City, will assist him.

 

ETCHINGS OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

“Famous Colleges and Universities of Virginia”
is the title of a series of very beautiful etchings by S.
D. Swann of Baltimore. The etchings made at Washing-
ton and Lee include the main building group, one of
the doorways, and the recumbent figure of General
Lee. The work is exceptionally well-done. The etchings
made here are on sale at the museum shop.

[ 29 |

Meoeclelion dns Dinca ager d asi

  

M AGA ZIN

 

FACULTY LISTED IN WHO’S WHO

Twelve members of the faculty of Washington
and Lee University are listed in Who’s Who in Ameri-
ca. ‘They include Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, presi-
dent of the University ; Dr. Henry D. Campbell, Robin-
son professor of geology; Dr. James L. Howe, Bayly
professor of chemistry; Dr. .Thomas J. Farrar, profes-
sor of German; Dr. De la Warr Easter, professor of
romance languages; Dr. Glover D. Hancock, Wilson
professor of economics and commerce; Dr. Edgar F.
Shannon, professor of English; Dr. Robert H. Tucker,
professor of economics and business administration ;
Dr. William Dana Hoyt, professor of biology; Dr.
Lucius J. Desha, professor of chemistry; and William
T. Lyle Scott, professor of civil engineering.

 

DR. GAINES TO MEET ALUMNI

Dr. Francis P. Gaines will leave Lexington late in
January for a visit to several alumni organizations in
Louisiana and Texas. The New Orleans alumni will
hold a meeting for him on January 23; San Antonio
alumni on January 25; and Dallas, Texas, on January
26th. Dr. Gaines will be the principal speaker at all
of these meetings. He is looking forward with great
pleasure to becoming better acquainted with Washington
and Lee men in the far South.

 

PERSONALS

Dr. C. W. MeNitt, 17, is practicing medicine in
New York City, and is on the staff of the Vanderbilt
Clinic, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.

Dr. and Mrs. Francis P. Gaines entertained the
Varsity football squad, coaches and managers, at a
delightful dinner at the President’s home, on Tuesday,
December Ist.

Married, Thursday, November 26, 1931, at St.
James Methodist Church, Richmond, Virginia, Carl-.
ton Ellsworth Jewett, ’21 to Miss Delia Erminie Bry-
ant, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Henry Bryant.

E. W. G. Boogher, ’02, of Merchantville, N. J.
and his son were visitors to the Alumni office. After
several years in business Mr. Boogher is now engaged
in work toward his Ph.D. at the University of Penn-
sylvania.

Charles W. Moss, 718, state senator from Rich-
mond, was elected president of the Kiwanis Club of
Richmond, Virginia, at the annual meeting held recently
in the chamber of commerce. He will assume his
duties on January 1.

[ 30 ]

 
   
   
   
    
 
   
    
  
    
   
 

Dr. William H. Moreland, Dean of the Law >
School, who has been undergoing treatment at the
Johnson-Willis hospital in Richmond, is back on the~
campus again much improved in health. He is still ©
not well enough to resume his class work, but is rap-—
idly improving.

Capt. Dick Smith, ’12, athletic director, suffered a_
painful, though not serious injury when he was struck
in the eye by a branch while hunting recently. The in-
jury was, however, serious enough to put him in the ~
hospital for a day or so and prevent his attendance at_
the Maryland game.

William L. Mapel, head of the Lee Memorial —
School of Journalism last year, and at present assistant
editor of The American Boy, was elected treasurer
of Sigma Delta Chi, National Journalistic Fraternity, ©
at its 17th annual convention held in Minneapolis
recently. ;

W. Taylor Thom, Jr., 13, professor of Geology at
Princeton, spoke at the Pittsburgh Coal Conference on
November 14th. Dr. Thom was in Houston, Texas, for —
a month this fall as the first holder of the recently es-
tablished Walter B. Sharp research fellowship at the ~
Rice Institute——on which he will do most of his work
in residence at Princeton.

 

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

ee
oo

fi eS

a i.
-— - Se m
i er | Bee tsa

anal
A
mig
me
ae
+
ys

iy a

a ee
4 eee ,

Lae

ar

& %
“ er 5 3

eee
a

Fk Bo
Bete
;

iw Cod a,

Pox sy

>

) hae

Seth bet

7 a ie a

tise be
mes
ees

oe

i
A

"ae 4
ve

7
aes

a Pee
Mey Rue
A i
Avan ty dee
og ae .

ee ee na

whic

aoe

ae

a ae +
Re 2
i. Cy ie
. ‘pone

vie ®

Sava te, 5

“7
a
a)

igi

oe
4
ss

a a

a

mee

aha 4

¥

i.

,

Tipe

oa

Ae S aaa
on, alee
7 oy ae

wy
‘

ere T
Eat
ae i
Pee or

ee)
raat *

 

ss EOE SSS ES _ ESS ES

| AL MINI:
Forest Caurrn

| oo ae we

 

   

Make this convenient home Where the Charm
of the Old South /\bounds your headquarters
when returning to Ww ashington and Lee.

HF oreut Gaupri is located two miles south of the
Natural Bridge on | ee Highway ct |S Route No. Ras

OPEN ALL THE YEAR

Communicate with Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Clothier, owners

: and operators, Natural Bridge, Va.

_—[———$$ 9) SSS

is
—

—— a

 

ES Bees

 

ji —) SSS | eee ee

 

