CTOBER
1939

 

©

Alumni Magazine

ashington and Lee University


 

 

Appalachian

Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland

A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House
Charleston, West Virginia

John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee

. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois
. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company

Chaeied, Ohio

Roger =, Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Covington, Virginia

R. M. Cabell
Cumberland Valley

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

James M. Faulkner, Liberty Bank Building
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,
Florida

Houston, Texas
D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia
Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky
Robert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway
Memphis, Tennessee
J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Elmore Dufour Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia
Leonard Doi. Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia
E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, $02 Park Building
Pocahontas Club
L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
> ‘a wW. Fowlkes, Professional Building
Bone Virginia
Ear) A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County
. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
hint Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri
E. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State
J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac
- Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, »..C.

. W. Hynson, American Security Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

$2.50 a Year
Vol. XV OCTOBER 1939 No. 1
Bdtton 5.05) tae Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor....GkoRGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presa ee eso is, Josepu T. Lyxes, 1909
SD OCFRON  isiiiecaslotess, Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917
T FORMS icici riick. .ccoc nk Stuart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

W. Carro_t MEapE, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
Joun Bett Tow1t, 1929
Dr. RicHarp Fowcxgs, 1915
J. R. Neat, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for October 1939

PAGE
George Waller St. Ciait, TRGGri tee. c ois. iiss ccisserebactscitacin 3
Fighty-five Sons of Alumni Enrolled.......0000.0000ccccccecccceeceeees 4
Alumni Association Almost 100 Years Old........0..00..00..0cc0c000, 7
The Skeleton Walks—But It’s No Mystery ..............ccccccceecesees 9
The Washington and Lee Speakers’ Bureau..........0......0000000.... 11
The New Deal in Football: So Far So Good.........0....0.0c0c00000-. 13
Pam Agen Writes Fron Cogeco. vncicissosdeocccce Skea 19
Alumni Class Fund Contributions Show Gain.......................... 20
Laces Pulte Association Motes iii... 5. .ccccceeticckcccesnas 21

x
—
<
_
vO
Ki
”
x
a
mM
=
<
5
gl
Oo
%
oO
a
>)

iversity

Late Rector of the Un

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

George Walker St. Clair, 1866-1939

(The President’s Page)

EORGE WALKER ST. CLAIR was born in Wytheville,
(> Virginia, August 23, 1866, was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1890, and entered upon the prac-
tice of law at Tazewell, Virginia, where he lived for the
rest of his life. In 1901 he was elected
to the Board of Trustees and in 1928 he
was made Rector of the Board. He died
quietly at his home on October 19, 1939.

It is not possible to suggest, much
less to measure, the worth of his ser-
vice to his Alma Mater. During the
thirty-eight years of his membership on
the Board, there was no concern of
University affairs too small to demand
his fine, thoughtful consideration, and
there was no problem or endeavor too
large to be given whatever volume of
time and energy might be required. No institution of
learning ever had a trustee more diligent, more devoted.

To attempt even the briefest character analysis of
George St. Clair is merely to enumerate the nobler and
lovelier attributes of the human spirit. Those who knew
him well think first, it is probable, of his strength, for he
was among the strong men of this generation. There was
at the center of his nature an unescapable force, of per-
sonality, of purpose, of conviction, of affection. This qual-
ity was compounded in rare proportions of capacity for
wise decision, competence for sustained resolution, and
courage that never wavered.

Even the most casual acquaintance of this man was
aware of a singular faithfulness in his life. This fidelity
made him in the largest sense true; he was true to his
family, true to his friendships, true to his promises, true
to his convictions, true to his causes. Nobody ever had a

moment’s doubt as to where he stood or would stand upon

 

an issue. The expression seems inadequate when applied
to this great, dedicated soul, but it is simple fact to say
that all knew George St. Clair “could be counted on.”

Guiding his life from start to finish was a sweet and
simple kindness, a Christ-like interest
in the welfare of others. To him was
given in uncommon measure a success
in business enterprise; he commanded
large resources. He used money gen-
rously for the helpful movements of
humanity, but he used his personal tal-
ents just as freely. In his career and in
his heart there was not even the remot-
est hint of self-seeking. He was one of
the most modest men that ever trod the
paths of the world. He was, neverthe-
less, influential in a thousand ways, in
the counsel and leadership he gave to far-reaching pro-
grams and in the personal relationships with employees,
friends, members of his community, the aspiring, the
dispirited, the needy, and the sad. In him the bruised soul
found healing, the weak found strength, the hopeless
found heartening.

It is a poorer world, because George St. Clair has left
it. Washington and Lee has suffered a loss of first mag-
nitude. But his name will stand high in her history and
his work lives after him, enduring contribution to the
highest ends. Those of us who knew him will think of
him not only with gratitude and love, but also with con-
stant renewals of inspiration.

Pantie fs veHs

President

[3]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

<

—

 

Eighty-five sons of Washington and Lee alumni enrolled this year at their fathers’ alma mater

Eighty-five Sons of Alumni Enrolled

IGHTY-FIVE Washington and Lee alumni have sent
|. their sons to their Alma Mater this year, thus keeping
the number exactly what it was last year. Of these, twenty-
six were freshmen.

The total number of students in the University this
fall is 934, according to the official register which was is-
sued on October 1. The freshman class numbers 288. This
is virtually the same number as last year, but in addition
there were about 30 transfers and 22 new men in Law,
bringing the total to 338 new men. The total student body
is larger than the ideal 925 which the college is trying to
achieve, but the ideal is looked on as an average rather
than the number for any special year. There are 105 in the
Law School.

The geographical distribution shows Washington and
l.ee’s usual cosmopolitan complexion, with representatives
literally from Maine to California—one from the former
and three from the latter. Virginia has furnished 205 boys
for the largest number, followed by New York with 84
and New Jersey with 63, Ten students come from Bel-

gium, Canada, Dominican Republic, Hawaii, Holland,
Mexico, and Puerto Rico.

Most gratifying to the administration was the fact
that more students applied for admission this year than
ever have before. Of this number only about fifty percent
were admitted, according to Dean Tucker. Hence this
year’s class is even more carefully selected than those of
past years. Dean Tucker also observed that the transfers
this year were men who had all made graduation grades
at the institutions from which they came.

Following is the list of sons of alumni now in Wash-
ington and Lee:

Son Father
John Alexander, J'r........:occcsssiann J. R. H. Alexander ’07
Gordon Alford..........:c:s-.ccscosssssllllininnnnnnannnnnnnnnnEE E. L. Alford ’85
William Armstrong.........icssusneeee G. G. Armstrong ’2]
LUpton AVery,.ececsssscesosesosaiannnenaael Clarence R. Avery ’14
Charles Bagley, Jr.......«ussneeeene Charles F. Bagley ’07
Fred Bartenstein, Jr. ...cissussseesscsse Fred Bartenstein ’08
Frank Bedinger, J'r......csssscsssetissscsssssessss ee Frank Bedinger ’13
James H. Bierer.......cccocscsocossessssssccssshessianenan J. M. Bierer ’08
Robert Mac Boatwright............cessssssreees John B. Boatwright ’15

[4]

 

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Son Father
Waeeet Browder, [8 diendaia bh. dicda * Walter Browder ’14
Awe: Brown, Ji piiiiisicasvstisiccdsdiscdsccecotecee Edward Brown’11
IN CG RIES os ockces bbs MNEs cds Tadicl pbsccoelesbeckcctbnoueste *M. P. Burks ’05
\VUSESOIED TR ORT OR i da cnsoceesnents Clarence Burns ’01
JOR Bigs SRI iiisockccccecasspovsccccccsovccoces John L. Campbell ’09
BOOGIE Bn I BE ccdencccecvescccosccoccccssdeccsaes R. F. Campbell ’78
CROCS Godlee, coi dso daib ii cessesctsvecosciocesieees G. W. Chaney ’11
JR ies a hia iiiicendpsonssrnccenposvepecesinesons John W. Cook ’19
FC ooo cccccpsnacengenevqscocscansqoussupansedh W. P. Daniel 718
MI FL Lkdcsccck cies tcctccccnsdbedctbocksenschenbe Mason Deaver ’08
Ke IIL SED, (cc nccvocissddascdons coshosbdeoabppsccthieehi E. C. DeVane ’14
eS eae George Faison 717
PIII 1 8 sc. cosexpsdnvasscnstesvesseonpboo anne J. M. Faulkner 717
Fe odskne cccorsncededhcsdseescensepntdolansniananinaneal Wm. H. Foard ’06
COMIN, PT. <-coccosvcccesseesedoceccoes qcohentnieieinnnnnal G. H. Forgy ’18
Pe IIIEID 2000 cscccensncosioccoceconeseonsneaninnaa E. W. Foreman 713
FoRaae EI V0 oa cdcnkcceiche sevens sects lee J. W. Garrow ’99
CER IREREEIIDN, .0.0.05 000i cccecpevoccsnseesshocseennen Isaac P. Gassman ’07
Carte, LIT... .ccccccscccccscccccnsdecsenealeianenenna Carter Glass, Jr. 713
WY RR RRCIAT IG. oo iio ccicct cc coc ce cacchonscocck GheeeneaeenniS F. P. Guthrie ’11
Ja NE ema, TT « acicevcoss<cccsssantecenee «J. N. Harman, Jr. ‘11
Kenney Freie, Jr......:ccs:sccccssessstaneen *T. Kennedy Helm 95
Dick FHGERAON.....00:0..:.sc0ctdsicodestelanen ene John G. Herndon ’11
Charles Et ObGon, J 8 q<0:cvecoddbesientetieicuieieneiiiaeiedss C. N. Hobson ’06
RODECE TRG DBON....0.cecconsocs sscensenshsbenenaniniatat lyase R. P. Hobson ’14
Wiiliiatal SL OMKING.....:..cccssccsaceivemmaseeeeeiatemitccs.d A. H. Hopkins 712
Aubrey FLOUSEl...icicickcc La SER Barkan ieecbichsctentad A. A. Houser ’09
J Ome), BAGEL 0acc) est ie ines R. M. Hunter ’86
Robert G., Putchesaiy Bic ai asin R. S. Hutcheson 710
Franikkitti 35 VrS0Nt.....<.c..ccckdsstedsataasebedieeisiehsiclecesss R. W. Hynson ’08

 

Son Father
in sasnnnedibebhoneweuladiiaiiie Bob Ignico’18
OT IINEIE I J Js0 «sche Mieekichaedibdienince ce cepubsécvrssalinbn J. G. Johnson ’11
en ee ccd W. M. Johnson ’08
LD ETE ELE LAL OPT NT? Homer Jones 717
RIE «5. sd ccsnbuebndsdecesoceopssnacnes George W. Keller ’07
a as nonccoevensaliaphonsvaeinte J. W. Kern ’07
So IIIOIIENE, «5, ciscssacccvsbsipeccceccccccscs * T. S. Kirkpatrick ’83
Ca. csecntudsheosabananéiiinnn Jeff Kiser ’16
Nee ccocstanweonansne C. P. Lewis 712
Se eo  sitssccccnedeensoonebabeers J. T. Lykes ’09
OE ' iy sc ceckoncbeces seed. A. McClure ’99
eT SRY oe Wm. G. MacCorkle ’10
0 Se ee in. s cccascccoceceaie William McCoy ’02
BREE Ti Oeste secs cdsc case ccessevceacccs O. L. McDonald ’12
FRCIOT BE CUE CR iiorrii ccncecsdiedetecscccccosece * Lewis A. McMurran ’07
A COE Re... cccccceses Howard Macfarlane ’13
PACER DE ian. cc iscasccscccncccccts * A. W. Maish’03
FO DUO, Bia hadksntsvicntsdnecsceceseee J. R. Mighell, Jr. 713
SRS CIEE OO es icvenrocseneeeie B. W. Morris 719
PDD GEG Ses Ba hiehiclosennsr~sescodteidcocessenscthnbnees J. R. Neal’15
RS GTEC) OUTRO tier ole ccsetcdorsvcsdesondnncncsssdsne H. S. Osburn ’04
RPURGD Rr 0 a alconae Dan Owen 712
PE CTY Fy CU. Wi sais kcichadibinb ico ies tkdndeadessocedaiiis Henry Peeples ’13
FE Ge Fi abakendal antes veidintnthciandcvesienss James H. Price ’09
FORA TRING SUA istaledaink ii saci cickdelabdykcocccvnnsse John Raines ’16
TN RR aceite tear an nice 2 eee P. C. Rogers ’13
TUN Rem ins a cee ee ee A. C. Sherrard ’03
Beer teed Bartels yaar nines, csi dt Herbert Smith ’17
WE SRO RUINS Fe oi ssth ahi hates cdlindteeldlatlerindccdenes Murray Smith ’05
Ce nT ne R. A. Smith 713

First row: Robert Neal, William Hopkins, William Armstrong, Carter Glass, III, Robert McDonald, John Raines, Dan Owen.

Second row: Henry Peeples, Lewis Tyree, George Keller, Stuart Faison, Dabney Kern, William McCoy. Third row: Roscoe

Stephenson, Walter Browder, Herbert Osburn, Enoch DcVane, Robert Stein. Fourth row: Barton Morris, Jr., William Wil-
cox, John Sherrard, Herbert Smith, Vincent Ignico. Fifth row: Alexander Maish, Neely Young. Insert: John Cook.

[5]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Left to right: T. A. Smedley, R. H. Shoemaker (new assistant in the
library), W. W. Pusey and A. R. Coleman, new additions to the faculty

 

 

Son Father
Be Rem a ae R. B. Spindle, Jr. ’06
Fen Ba me, DI Tica ca vncccssccccnsodecesteceneelcnaenel R. E. Steele, Jr. ’12
Robert Stein............................ C. H. Stein, ’11
Roscoe Stephenson, Jr. ...........ccccccsccssssssceee Roscoe Stephenson ’08
Flomeee Sutherland, Vr iissicccacccssccoscivsscssccksact Horace Sutherland 717
PPGTEE Te IS 0. oséccedincdindhidocsiseekeetolaaalacanana Paul C. Thomas ’15
LCWEE A VUEE, FL. ccsccccocotiacibesosssincessooccansdieeeaaeaa Lewis Tyree ’15
POC IG WU Bi icessicecstictinsdiihiesctashiodiesu niin * Hiram P. Wall’10
Lorenz White, Jr....... dae Lorenz T. White ’16
WERIRI VUBICOX, « F8.:. caccrecseocescsosensiuperteceiabecsiabadaadl W. J. Wilcox 712

Walter Wilkins ’14
Phil Williams ’10
A. L. Wolfe ’12

Walter Wilkins, Jr...........
Phil Williams, Jr.
Alfred Wolfe, Jr...............

 

 

 

Herbert Woodward, JF............cscc0eeee Herbert M. Woodward ’13
RES o. VU OA Ti Rasiacensatieeh sckdoc Avecuinsse tae Wm. B. Wright ’20

RRIF UR is oscncccrccacnscsddieaicbabgubatiadichaasoonhianiiiaall Cy Young ’17

* Deceased.

The freshman camp this year, according to Dean
Frank J. Gilliam, its director, was the most successful
since its inauguration. Since the accommodations at Camp
Powahatan are still adequate for only 136, that was
the total number enrolled, in spite of a much greater de-
mand. For future years there are plans to enlarge the
camp so that more freshmen may benefit by this excellent
form of orientation. The faculty councilors this year
were: Professor J. H. Williams, assistant director, and
Professors Barnes, Desha, Farinholt, Hinton, Latture,
Moger, Morton, Mr. Mattingly and Mr. Philpott. There
were also thirteen student councilors and ten men listed
as visitors. The usual hikes, contests and talks were en-
joyed.

Four new members were added to the fac-
ulty and staff this year.

William W. Pusey will take Dr. Farrar’s
place in the department of German. Dr. Pusey
is a graduate of Haverford College, received
an M.A. from Harvard in 1934 and a Ph.D.
from Columbia in 1939. He has also studied
in Germany at the University of Bonn and was
instructor at Columbia for two years. Dr.
Pusey’s home is in Wilmington, Delaware.

Charles D. Starr of Mason City, Iowa, has
become instructor in chemistry this year. Dr.
Starr is a graduate of Grinnell College and re-
ceived his Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins. Al-
though this is his first regular teaching posi-
tion, he was laboratory assistant at both Hop-
kins and Grinnell.

Theodore A. Smedley has been added to
the faculty of the Law School as Assistant
Professor and Librarian. His A.B. is from
Illinois College at Jacksonville, Illinois. He
also holds a degree of J.D. from Northwestern
and has taught at the University of Wyoming Law School.

Almand R. Coleman, M.B.A. and C.P.A., is the fourth
of the new men. Mr. Coleman has been added to the fac-
ulty of the Commerce School to fill the place left vacant by
the late Professor William Coan. Mr. Coleman graduated
from Washington and Lee with the class of 1926.

 

A Barbecue at ‘Penrobin’

On Wednesday, September 27, Dr. and Mrs. Francis
Pendleton Gaines entertained the entire faculty at a bar-
becue, given at their new home, “Penrobin.” Dr. Gaines
expressed regret that the wives of faculty members could
not be included, but inasmuch as the present faculty num-
bers sixty-five, it is easy to see that even a “stag” party
was a considerable undertaking.

Most alumni will probably find it hard to visualize ex-
actly where Dr. Gaines’ new farm is, but if you remember
where Falling Springs Church is located, you will have a
pretty good idea. A fine old brick mansion in this region
has been purchased and restored by Dr. Gaines. The site
commands a splendid view of valley and mountains.

The barbecue itself was held in the open air on top of
a knoll near the house. The guests sat at long tables sur-
rounding a big barbecue pit and were lavishly served with
a barbecued beef supper. It was a most enjoyable occasion
and greatly appreciated by all who were able to attend.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Alumni Association Almost 100 Years Old

HE VIRGINIA Miitary INSTITUTE is not the only one
Te have a hundredth anniversary. Whether you know
it or not, your own association will reach that same vener-
able age next year. Here is the story:

On May 26, 1840, the Lexington Gazette carried a
notice calling on all alum-
ni of Washington College |
to meet “at college on the —
approaching commence-
ment day, the 25th of next
June, for the purpose of
forming an alumni asso- |

 

alumni of Washington College since the class of 1774.
The list of names and constitution are too long to be
included here, though both are interesting. The constitu-
tion provides generally for high purposes and alumni co-
operation. One article calls for exclusion of any member
for crime or misdemeanor.

LCL: TTT TTT te ene

The records are more
quotable and disclose many
changes inthe century past.
For example, the contrast
between an alumni asso-
ciation of 1840 and one to-

s

 

ciation.... P. S. Our ex-
change papers of this state
will please copy the above
notice.’ On the day as-
signed, June 25, 1840,
twenty-two loyal Washing-
ton College alumni headed
by President Henry Ruff-
ner, General C. P. Dol-
man ,elected first president
of the association, and
Jacob Fuller, elected sec-
retary, met in the old col-
lege chapel and formed
themselves into an organi- |
zation “to maintain union |
and friendship among the
alumni, and to promote
the prosperity of their
Alma Mater.

By a coincidence, this fact was discovered in the par-
ticularly appropriate year of 1939 by Miss Helen Web-
ster, secretary to Mr. Penick and a particularly keen
guardian and discoverer of Washington and Lee history.
Hence the present alumni will be able to celebrate their
centennial at Finals next year, with pride in the thought
that their own association is older than most American
colleges, and unquestionably one of the very oldest asso-
ciations of alumni in the United States.

The document which discloses this fact is a fascinating
one which many Washington and Lee graduates will want
to look at. The old yellow-covered, blue-lined notebook
contains the original constitution, the records of all meet-
ings from 1840 to 1867, and several lists of the known

. dre. b.

calsen’, and unm

NEC ure pray leant

ie

> eceiemnaions 5) eo aee ewes == emnee

STITUPION.

ML adil ickas : this call oo shortl bre onl ed
on aff lication le be enrdlec ed members vi Mes ype’ |
m alamned, e ata ccurered le
Sludicd nel le fs than hee yea
in Ue celle « amet mat
igec’ Age senclarsie tt ant
nermbeseife alt ganas annual

A page from the earliest records of the Alumni Association

— | day is striking all through
3 the records. Then, there
. was simply the one body,
meeting once a year in
Lexington with an occa-
sional special meeting. No-
body traveled to chapters
in different places to re-
port on the present status
of the school. No alumni
magazine was circulated,
the nearest thing to it be-
ing an occasional printing
of the oration delivered be-
fore the last meeting. No
one ever seems to have ask-
_ ed the members to contrib-
_’ ute anything towards the
college, the dollar-a-year
dues to the association be-
ing the only financial burden; and last but not least, there
is not the slightest mention of football or any other ath-
letic activity in the whole twenty-seven years !

nlaiwcd an honcerable and
(uhavieur, Shall be ligule le

mlene. . en
tebe duly FARR ele

The whole idea in those days seems to have been to
listen to an annual oration, the orator being chosen a year
in advance. If he was like other college orators of his
day—and he undoubtedly was—he was probably very
long-winded. Some idea of his probable style of speaking
is given in the resolution that appears in almost all the
minutes, as for example: resolved that ‘“‘the thanks of the
association be returned to Dr. Plumer for his elegant and
instructive address.”’ That his address was elegant and in-
structive is beyond question, but how much of it a mod-
ern alumni group would stand for is doubtful! By 1854,

[7]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

however, the association was becoming positively frivol-
ous, and “the executive committee was directed to have ‘‘a
sociable dinner prepared for their next annual meeting.”
And to accompany the oration of 1859 they even provided
for a “band of music” at the cost of $25 to $30. It must
have been a pretty gay Finals in 1859!

The activities and accomplishments of the association,
as they show through the patient records of Jacob Fuller,
were not diverse but were solid, and sound in purpose.
The first project was to arrange for a collection of histori-
cal documents about the college, and
they followed this later with a request
that President Ruffner furnish a his-
torical sketch, which evidently resulted
in Ruffner’s contributions to the Wash-
ington and Lee Historical Papers.

In 1854 the alumni carried out their
biggest financial operation by raising
$109, of which $100 was contributed
for a block in the Washington Monu-
ment to be inscribed as follows:

“From
The Alumni of
Washington College
at Lexington, Virginia
The only college endowed by
The Father of his Country.”

The block was put in place and is
still in Washington for any alumnus
to see.

At the meetings in July, 1854, an
attempt was made to gain greater alum-
ni control of the college by the same method used in so
many institutions today—alumni election of trustees. This
rebellion was evidently attempted single-handed by Mr.
FE. J. H. M. Campbell, who moved that the alumni peti-
tion the legislature to change the college charter so that
the association be “empowered to elect all trustees, to fill
vacancies that may hereafter occur in the present board
of trustees.”” After long debate at the 1855 meeting, the
motion received only one favorable vote.

There are two gaps in the records. At the meeting of
1847 it was resolved that no annual meeting should ever
be omitted or postponed for any reason. There is then a
complete blank until 1852!

The other gap is more significant—and very tragic. At
the meeting of July 1, 1859, it was resolved to have an
“extraordinary celebration” the next year to arouse pub-
lic interest in the association’s activities. After that, for

(Continued on page 12)

 

New Alumni Magazine Editor

RicHARD P. CarTER, 1929, managing editor of the
Washington and Lee ALUMNI MAGazINE for the past
several years, has resigned, and the work has been taken
over by George Stuyvesant Jackson, assistant professor
of English at the University.

This is the first issue of the magazine under Mr. Jack-
son’s editorship.

Mr. Carter resigned his connection with THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE because of the press of aca-
demic and publicity duties at the Uni-
versity. He is director of the Washing-
ton and Lee News Bureau, supervising
both academic and athletic publicity for
the University, and also teaches vir-
tually a full-time schedule in the de-
partment of journalism. As director of
the News Bureau, he handles the Uni-
versity’s public relations with the press
and radio.

The new managing editor has been
teaching English at Washington and
Lee since 1931. He coaches the debat-
ing team, which has made enviable rec-
ords the past few seasons, and heads
the Washington and Lee Speakers’ Bu-
reau, which supplies student speakers
upon request to various organizations
throughout the state. He is a graduate
of Bowdoin College and has his M.A.
from Harvard.

Mr. Jackson is the author of Un-
common Scold, the story of Anne Royall (1937), and of
Early Songs of Uncle Sam (1933), a study of American
popular songs from 1825-1850. He is a contributor to the
Dictionary of American Biography.

George Stuyvesant Jackson

The retiring editor first assumed his duties with THE
ALUMNI MaGazINE when he came to Washington and
Lee in the fall of 1934 from the staff of the Greensboro
(North Carolina) Daily News. He was away from the
University almost two years, during which time the pub-
lication was edited by C. Harold Lauck, superintendent
of the Washington and Lee Journalism Laboratory Press
and one of the South’s best known experts on typography.
Mr. Carter assumed the managing editor’s post again
when he returned to Washington and Lee about two years
ago after a tour of duty with the Associated Press in New
York City-

THe ALUMNI MaGaAZINE is printed at the University
printing shop.—Cy Young.

[8 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Skeleton Walks — But It’s No Mystery

foam time seems to have come when it may be officially
and confidently announced that Traveller is to be
moved. That space against the wall of the Lee Chapel
Museum so long occupied by his famous remains in their
glass case will be vacant or occupied by something else. By
some, this news will be received with pleasure, while oth-
ers will be inclined to protest, but the decision has at last
been made by those in charge of the chapel.

To make everybody as happy as possible, however, a
compromise arrangement has been reached about where
the bones should go, and they will be placed in a side room
where visitors may see them if they wish but are not
bound to if they do not. Inasmuch as Jack, the chapel jani-
tor, asserts that about ninety per cent of all visitors ask
for Traveller the first thing, this room will probably be
popular ; but those who have been offended by the pres-
ence of this particular antiquity ought to be satisfied that
it is no longer to be in sight.

The chapel itself is becoming more renowned every
day. Though the figures on the annual number of chapel
visitors are not published by the University; if you could
see them, you would be amazed to know how many thou-
sand people each year
come from all over the
world to view Lee’s
shrine and to examine
the relics in the chapel
and museum.

On almost any day,
winter or summer, but
particularly summer,
you may see the same
sight down by the
chapel door—a tourist
with a camera. Usual-
ly he is standing at a
certain exact point on
the cement walk from
the chapel to the door
of Washington Col-
lege, and he is photo-
graphing the college
buildings with that
~agerness which ama-
teur photographers al-
ways show. One morn-

ing, even in a heavy rain, a woman ran up that walk, pre-
sumably to reach the colonnade and get in out of the wet,
but what she really did was to stop about half way, snap
a picture, and run back to the parking space under the hill!

So common has the sight of tourists become, in fact,
that it is hard to realize the chapel has been publicly open
to visitors only since 1930. Many also fail to realize that
it was the tourists rather than the college who brought
about the opening. Up to 1930 there had been only one at-
tendant at the chapel—the janitor—and as time went by
and the automobiles began to increase, the janitor became
one of the busiest people in Lexington. The tourists who
knew of the chapel’s existence insisted on seeing it, and the
only way they could get in was by ringing the janitor’s
bell. Sometimes he was there ; sometimes not.

Consequently, the college had only two choices: open
the building formally to the public, or put up a sign say-
ing “No Visitors Allowed.” The latter would hardly fit
into the hospitable tradition of Washington and Lee.

But the invitation to visitors involved extra expense
for the chapel such as upkeep, payment of attendants, and
insurance. Hence an admission fee was charged. Consid-

ee * a
a
*

Sars

“Pot
be
i
Ps
es
Pe

‘a
ES
:
bes
y
S
J
=

|

t

 

es

 

General Lee’s Office in the Chapel

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ering that many classes of people such as members of the
college and their guests, members of the United Daugh-
ters of the Confederacy, local people and their children,
and veterans of the World War, are charged nothing, this
fee brings a return which is far from sufficient to defray
the expense of the chapel whose insurance charges on
invaluable pictures alone are immensely high. It is re-
liably reported by attendants, however, that though some
complain of the charge when they enter, all are well satis-
fied before they leave.

In any case, swarms of people continue to come, to
learn, and to appreciate. Visitors this
year came from all over the world : peo-
ple from India, and from Europe for
instance, as well as the Japanese am-
bassador, or his enemies from Pekin,
China. Mrs. W. C. Flournoy, the chapel
custodian, noted that there are now
many groups of school children—chil-
dren from as far away as Michigan who
alight from buses and add the Lee
Chapel to their education. She observed
that all athletic and other teams that
come to Washington and Lee enter the
chapel. Thus the building is becoming
a center of wide-spread education.

ROR

This year visitors miss the Peale
portrait of Washington which has been
exhibited at the New York World’s
Fair since its opening, but many more
are seeing it there. Another event at
the chapel this spring was the exhuming of the remains of
Robert E. Lee, III, to a new burial place in Charleston,
South Carolina, as forecast in THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
last December.

Attendants report that many of the visitors believe
they are still on the Virginia Military Institute parade
grounds when they arrive on the campus, but probably
some of them think the reverse when they come from the
opposite direction and move up the street. There is also a
strong insistence, so it is said, that the gallery in the chapel
(which, you will remember, was completed in 1867) must
have been the space reserved for the slaves. Many people
inspect the place thoroughly to find the manacles that must
have held these hypothetical negroes.

Two other stories came out of a brief interview. A
woman looked curiously for a long time at Lee’s name on
the recumbent statue and then said: “Lee—Lee—R. E.
Lee. Somewhere I’ve heard of that name. Isn’t he men-
tioned in that book, Gone with the Wind?”

The other was about a mother and her small son who

(Continued on page 18)

 

Charles J. Crockett, Jr., 1927

Life Insurance Executive

CHarces J. Crockett, JR., who graduated in 1927
with a B.S. in Commerce, has become field supervisor for
the Group and Pension Division in the Eastern Depart-
ment of the Aetna Life Insurance Company with Reg-
ional Headquarters at 1600 Widener Building, Philadel-
phia. His home address at present is Alden Park Manor,
Germantown, Pennsylvania.

Before going into active business he atended a special
session at the Harvard University School of Business Ad-
ministration where he was awarded a
Certificate of Sales Management. He
started with the Company in 1928, tak-
ing his first field position for the Group
Insurance Sales in Nashville, Tennes-
see. In 1929 he was made manager of
the Group Department in Memphis,
covering the territory of Mississippi
and West Tennessee. The next year he
was transferred to Pittsburgh as assist-
ant manager of the Group and Pension
Division for the territory of Western
Pennsylvania. After three years there,
he was appointed to his present job as
field supervisor, with territory embrac-
ing Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
District of Columbia, and Virginia.

He married Mary Katherine Rod-
gers of Pittsburgh in February, 1937.

While at Washington and Lee, Mr.
Crockett was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha

Kappa Psi and Pi Alpha Nu. He was class president
of 1927.

 

Dr. Henry Louis Smith’s Birthday

Henry Louis Smiru, President Emeritus of Wash-
ington and Lee, celebrated his eightieth birthday on July
30 and expressed appreciation to Secretary Young con-
cerning the association’s part in the celebration.

He writes: “The celebration committee has just sent
me a very handsome bound volume containing the scores
of messages, telegrams, etc., received during that ‘birth-
day celebration’ on July 30. It is quite remarkable that I
had not an inkling of the affair till it was actually pulled
off Sunday morning, the 30th.

“Give to the association my warmest thanks and my
confident prediction that under its excellent president the
future uninterrupted progress of Washington and Lee
seems a certainty.”

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The Washington and Lee Speakers’ Bureau

By Rosert L. VAN Waconer, Law Class of 1941

Assistant Director of the Speakers’ Bureau

HE alumnus of Washington and Lee, if he is like most
B eves alumni, has not long entered the business or pro-
professional world before he becomes aware of the value
of any ability to express himself orally.

All through his educational process, stress has been
placed on the value of written expression. From the fourth
elementary grade to college graduate work, he has been
trained in the art of written composition. He has been
given no freedom of choice in this field, for he has con-
stantly met the stipulations “required for graduation” or
“prerequisite to.”” But nowhere during that entire process
has he been told that he must take work in oral composi-
tion. Perhaps such instruction had not even been offered
to him until he reached college. Failing to foresee where
such training would help him later, he may have avoided
the opportunity for this instruction. However, when he
has returned to his local community, business clubs,
churches, sales meetings, and other activities to which he
has turned his attention, have called upon him to speak in
public. For the first time he sees clearly that college could
have rounded him in this respect also.

Teachers in Public Speech have always found that, un-
like written composition, oral composition requires an
actual public experience to gain perfection. The English
teacher can assign themes and stories for composition, and
he finds that these outlets are as good to offer experience
as almost any outlet. However, the speech professor is
soon aware that ordinary class recitation does not pro-
vide the test which is needed to perfect oral expression.
He urges his students to participate in debate work, but
this is a limited outlet and fails to provide all his students
with practical experience. The administration and faculty
of Washington and Lee ran across this very difficulty.
They offered courses in speech but had no real conduits
for practical application.

It was because of this need that a faculty committee
met in the spring of 1938 to give birth to the plan for a
Speakers’ Bureau at Washington and Lee. This plan grew
into a reality in the fall of last year, and the Washington
and Lee Speakers’ Bureau came into existence. Here was
an organization which could supply the medium between
the students who wanted to speak and the people who
wanted to hear them speak.

The directors of the bureau notified all the Women’s

Clubs, Kiwanis Clubs, Lions Clubs, Rotary Clubs, schools
and other groups in Virginia who might be interested,
that Washington and Lee was now equipped to furnish
them with speakers on many subjects of national and in-
ternational interest, topics arising from special interests
of individual students and from their experiences here
and abroad: scientific topics, literary topics, and relig-
ious topics. These groups immediately took advantage
of the offer, and the bureau, in the first year of its exist-
ence, sent some thirty speakers about the state.

The idea of a speakers’ bureau is not original with
Washington and Lee, but its success here has equalled and
surpassed that at other institutions. It is one of a very few
which can send out printed bulletins for the year. The
Washington and Lee Bulletin explains the purpose and
policies of the bureau, gives a complete list of topics and
speakers, imparts information concerning the speakers,
and by testimonials advertises its past success. It is a neat
and compact bulletin of eight pages as compared with
mimeographed sheets sent out by other bureaus.

Kach speaker is coached and approved before he is
sent out into the field as a representative of the Univer-
sity. Letters from the groups which have heard them
show that they have been an admirable proof of the value
of forensic training in this institution.

With this year of experience and growth behind the
bureau, it is only natural that its activity should expand.
The bureau hopes to send four times as many speakers
into the field this year. Publicity which it has gained for
itself will, to some measure, insure this growth. However,
publicity cannot do it alone. Washington and Lee alumni
can be of invaluable assistance, especially those who re-
side in Virginia. By inviting our speakers to your com-
munity to speak to your local organizations and clubs, and
by telling others of the opportunity the bureau offers trou-
bled program chairmen, the alumni can help to give the
training to present students which will be of great import-
ance to them when they become alumni.

Bulletins and other information will be sent to any
alumnus or other interested party upon request. Professor
George S$. Jackson is the director and Robert Van Wag-
oner, intermediate law student, is the assistant director.
Direct all correspondence to Mr. Van Wagoner, Box 69,
Lexington, Virginia.

[11]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

New Medical Arrangements
at University

ANY ALUMNI will be interested in the change made

in University medical facilities by the Board of
Trustees last spring, a little too late to be reported in the
July issue of THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

Previously, as many will remember, Dr. Reid White,
Jr., 1919, has been official college physician, although at
the same time carrying on an outside practice in Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge County. Feeling that a doctor’s full
time is needed nowadays at Washing-
ton and Lee to safeguard the health of
such a large student body, the board
persuaded Dr. White to give up this
outside practice and become full-time
college physician.

Under the new system, all students
receive what medical care they need in
return for a regular medical fee, just
as they have always done. An important
change, however, is in the extension of
this service to faculty members and
their families who wish to take ad-
vantage of it. Those who do will re-
ceive “all professional services which a
physician normally gives to his patients,
excluding those that are definitely in
the field of a specialist—such as sur-
gery, etc.”” The college has also provided
a new office for the doctor on Washing-
ton Street near the gymnasium in the
building that used to be the A. X. P.
House. This structure has been remodeled with an excel-
lent medical suite on the ground floor and student rooms
upstairs.

It is particularly appropriate that Reid White should
be the man to fill this new and more official position, if
nothing else, because of a family tradition extending back
a century and a half. He himself has been nominal college
doctor since 1931 when his father died. His father, Dr.
Reid White, 1887, was also college physician during his
lifetime. In the preceding generation his grandfather,
James Jones White, was professor of Greek in the Uni-
versity, while his great-great-grandfather, Andrew Reid,
was one of the earliest trustees, holding office in 1796.

Most important of all, however, is the fact that the
college has been able to secure such an excellent physician
for this post. All concerned deeply appreciate Dr. White's
sacrifice in giving up an extensive practice to serve Wash-
ington and Lee.

 

Dr. Reid White, Jr.

Alumni Association Almost 10o
Years Old

(Continued from page 8)
reasons that do not need to be mentioned, there were no
more meetings until 1866.

Yet, in the spring of 1866, after all the strife that had
gone before, this undaunted organization met again, re-
organized, and raised the dues from one to five dollars
a year.

The most curious thing of all occurs in this last part
of the records. Although there are min-
utes up to a meeting of January 19,
1867, there is absolutely no mention
anywhere of the war, and there is abso-
lutely no mention of Robert E. Lee. The
reason for the latter I cannot imagine,
since Lee was president when the last
two meetings were held and it seemed
to have been customary for presidents
and non-alumni to be elected. '

Omission of any word about the war
is hardly less surprising, but this might
have been done purposely by common
consent. The only sign that any conflict
occurred is in the letter ‘“‘k’’ beside the
names of many graduates in those later
years. “K” meant “killed in battle.”

For any alumnus, and especially to
those men who will find mention of
their ancestors in the records, this old
red and yellow notebook ought to fur-
nish fascinating reading. In any case,
it is an official record to remind the Washington and Lee
alumni next spring that for 100 years now they have been
“maintaining union and friendship among themselves and
promoting the prosperity of their Alma Mater.”

 

Alumni Urged to Order Plates Now

SUBSCRIBERS who have received the pamphlet giving
information about the Washington and Lee Wedgwood
Commemorative Plates and who wish to purchase some
are urged to send their orders soon. Because of the effect
of the war on imports, prices will have to be raised, but
until January 1, 1940, the announced price of $1.50 per
plate and $12.00 per set will prevail. If you wish to take
advantage of this price, get your order in now. If you wish
first-edition plates with the University seal on the back,
your order must be in by November 15.

[12]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The New Deal in Football: So Far So Good

By Bun Levy, 1942

N even break in their first three games got under way
A for Washington and Lee’s 1939 footballers a season
that promises to turn out better than even the Generals’
most optimistic backers dared hope for a couple of months
ago.

Just as there was no joy in Mudville the day that
mighty Casey struck out, so there was
no joy in Lexington back in the early
part of September. Bulletins from the
Generals’ pre-season training quarters
at Nimrod Hall gave little cause for joy
among the followers of Washington
and Lee gridiron fortunes. First came
the news that a pair of valuable letter-
men had unexpectedly dropped out of
school. Then came word that an injury
had deprived the team, for several
weeks, of the services of Junie Bishop,
veteran fullback. Other and less im-
portant additions were made to the
Generals’ list of woes. Head Coach Tex
Tilson summed things up when he said
that the season’s outlook was ‘abso-
lutely the gloomiest’”’ in the history of
his seven-year term as grid tutor at
Washington and Lee.

But football teams are funny things,
and it was a highly-pleased gathering that watched the
Generals outclass a favored Sewanee eleven, 9-0, in the
season’s opener at Wilson Field. The following week
Washington and Lee gave Richmond’s highly-rated ma-
chine a whale of a battle before dropping a 7-0 verdict.
Then Tilson’s band invaded Memphis and deadlocked a
heavier Southwestern team, 7-7, with a courageous dis-
play of football.

It’s been said often, but we say it again, and we mean
it: those scores don’t tell the story. In their opener against
Sewanee, the Generals were just about the whole show.
They picked up over four times as much territory on rush-
ing plays as did their Southeastern Conference foemen,
and were on the offense most of the time, but a driving
rain made ball-handling difficult, and fumbles several
times stopped marches in Sewanee soil.

The loss to Richmond’s Spiders, who had piled up 63
points in their first two games and who battled Rutgers to

 

Harold R. Levy

a 6-6 standstill a week after their Lexington visit, was an
honest-to-goodness heartbreaker. The Generals pushed
Richmond all over the premises in the first half and at
one time were within two yards of a touchdown. But the
visitors struck with the suddenness of lightning as the
second half got under way, and picked up the seven points
which gave them the decision after late
Washington and Lee threats had gone
for naught.

Perhaps the grandest of the Gen-
erals’ early displays was that which they
gave in their tussle with Southwestern
at Memphis. A long pass helped the
Lynx put Washington and Lee on the
short end of a 7-0 count early in the
first quarter, but Tilson’s warriors came
back with a rush and had knotted the
score before the end of that initial pe-
riod. The Generals dominated the play
in the second and third quarters, but
three pass-interceptions interrupted of-
fensive thrusts that might have re-
sulted in Washington and Lee scores.
Southwestern came back in the final
period and executed a series of plays
which carried the leather to the Wash-
ington and Lee four-yard stripe and a
first down, but the Generals’ forward wall stopped four
desperate plunges and the score remained unchanged.

Such was the beginning of Washington and Lee’s new
deal in football. The transition will be a slow one, but that
it is under way was evidenced by the team’s performance
in its first three games.

Featured in the new deal setup is the revamped coach-
ing staff. Working with Tilson are Bill Ellis, Washing-
ton and Lee, 1936, who is handling the ends again, and a
pair of newcomers—Backfield Coach Riley Smith and
Line Coach Jack Hennemier. Smith, who joined the staff
in time for spring practice last year, came to Lexington by
way of the University of Alabama and the Washington
Redskins. It was he who, as captain and quarterback,
sparked Alabama to its Rose Bowl victory over Stanford
a few years ago and then, after joining the professional
ranks, led Washington to the championship of the Na-
tional League. Riley has long been known for his gridiron

[13]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

FRONT ROW:, left to right: Jim Price, junior manager; Bobby Pinck, Charlie Didier, Joe Baugher, Bob Blanding, Dick
Pinck, Captain Dick Boisseau, Dan Justice, Bert Kadis, Bob Keim, Ronnie Thompson, and Reid Brodie, manager. MID-
DLE ROW, left to right: Doc Boyd, trainer; Jimmy Lindsey, Bob Lawrence, Colin Baxter, Francis Sugrue, Jack Man-
gan, Simmons Trueheart, Pat Searfoss, Pres Brown, Bob Gary, Robert Rice, and Tom Cox. BACK ROW, left to right:
Head Coach Tilson, Line Coach Hennemier, Courtney Wadlington, Edgar Boyd, Henry Baker, Bert Nelson, Joe Little-
page, Howard Dobbins, Steve Hanasik, Francis Bryan, Jack Gillespie, Kelly Litteral, Backfield Coach
Riley Smith, and End Coach Bill Ellis.

 

( Courtel The ease Phi)
1939 COACHING STAFF: Riley Smith, “Tex” Tilson, Bill Ellis, and Jack Hennemier

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

brains, and indications are that he’s in for a successful
coaching career.

Hennemier, who fills the tutoring gap left by the re-
tirement from the athletic department of Cy Young, han-
dled duties in the center of Duke’s line for three years,
and was named the Blue Devils’ “most valuable player”
in 1935. Red-headed and pint-sized, he was named on
All-Southern Conference, All Southern and All American
squads during his term at Duke, and coached a high school
eleven in Savannah, Georgia, after his graduation in 1936.

Smith and Hennemier both fit into the Washington
and Lee picture well, and their work had a great deal to
do with the improvement that caused Tilson to revise his
talk about the season’s outlook a couple of weeks after the
team’s return from Nimrod Hall.

Tilson wasn’t kidding that day in September when he
talked of such a gloomy outlook; he was sincere. To begin
with, last June’s graduation took from the squad such
stalwarts as Joe Ochsie, Captain Bill Brown, Charlie
Lykes, Bernie Harper, and Ray Craft. Then, when Tilson
counted noses at the Nimrod Hall training base, he found
missing several men who had figured prominently in his
plans for the current season. Chief among those unex-
pected losses was that of Harrison Hogan, veteran triple-
threat halfback. Bill Keland, a letterman at tackle last
year, also failed to return this fall, as did others who were
slated to play lots of football. And Captain Dick Boisseau,
who rates among the best tackles in the Southern Confer-
ence, was a question mark, having undergone a compli-
cated appendectomy in the spring. Then, to top things off,
Bishop was shelved when he broke his ankle during the
Nimrod Hall sessions.

But when Tex and his staff buckled down and went to
work with their little, thirty-two-man squad, things began
to look a little brighter. Several players were moved to
new positions in an attempt to fill gaps, and efficient coach-
ing made those transfers successful. Boisseau rounded
into shape in quick time, and the whole squad worked with
a spirit the like of which Tilson says he has never seen at
Washington and Lee.

Good men were available for every starting position
by the time the Generals’ first game rolled around, but the
reserve ranks were weak in that there were not enough
capable substitutes to satisfy the requirements of a team
that faced a rigorous nine-game calendar.

Three lettermen — Courtney Wadlington, Simmons
Trueheart and Howard Dobbins—head the list of ends.
Wadlington, formerly a blocking back, has developed into
one of the best all-around flankmen that Washington and
Lee has seen in several years. Dobbins’ basketball ability
makes him a good pass receiver, while Trueheart fills the
bill as a defensive end. Other wingmen on the squad are

Henry Baker, a better-than-average reserve; Bob Rice, a
junior college transfer ; and Sophomore Bob Lawrence.

Captain Boisseau, Kelly Litteral, Francis Sugrue and
Bert Nelson are the tackles. Litteral and Sugrue, both of
whom are seeing varsity action for the third year, take
turns caring for the post left open by the graduation of
the mighty Ochsie, while Nelson, a sophomore, has proved
himself a capable reserve.

Only one real guard, rugged Jim Lindsey, was on hand
when the Generals started preparing for the current sea-
son, but the coaches turned an end, a back, and a center
into candidates for the vacant post, and the result took
care of one of the most pressing of problems. Steve Hana-
sik, a letterman at center last year, became Lindsey’s
first-string running mate, while Francis Bryan, formerly
a back, and Jack Gillespie, a converted end, developed into
capable reserves, along with Sophomore Colin Baxter.

Jack Mangan, veteran center who never finds the go-
ing too tough, feeds the leather to the backfield. Joe Lit-
tlepage, a graduate of last year’s freshman team, is his
understudy.

Half a dozen lettermen and four talented sophomores
constitute the backfield strength. Little Dan Justice makes
difficult running plays look easy, fires accurate passes and
turns in his share of good punts. Then there are the Pinck
brothers, Dick and Bob. Dick, who, after a sensational
freshman year, spent the better part of last season on the
sidelines with a knee injury, got off to a good start this
fall, but injured a nerve in his shoulder during the Rich-
mond game and didn’t see action in the Generals’ third en-
gagement. His kid brother, Sophomore Bob, does the
plunging in the absence of Bishop and made his varsity
debut by taking over the touchdown which helped beat
Sewanee.

Surprise of the early part of the season was Preston
Brown, sophomore halfback who specializes in running
reverse plays and in kicking. Brown picked up over sixty
yards on a series of reverses in the drive which carried to
the two-yard line in the Richmond game, and it was he
who scored the Generals’ six-pointer against Southwest-
ern the following Saturday.

Another sophomore who has shown to advantage in
his first taste of varsity ball is Joe Baugher, a 145-pounder
who rivals Dick Pinck as a fast-stepper. Baugher also
shares the pass-heaving chores with Pinck and Justice.
Bob Blanding, a holdover from last year’s team, and
Sophomore Charlie Didier are the blocking backs.

Another pair of veterans, little Bob Gary and Ronnie
Thompson, are among the backfield reserves. Gary makes
a practice of hauling down passes and then sprinting away
like a scared deer, while Thompson, a three-letter man, is
a capable runner and kicker. Bob Keim, a junior, and Bert

[15]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

satetcnseasencncereaseccates

Kadis, a sophomore,
round out the back-
field crew.

On paper, that ar-
ray of players does
not shape up as well
as did the squad
which Tilson had on
hand last year; but
on the field the cur-
rent aggregation has
shown, thus far at
least, a decided edge
over the 1938 outfit.
ee This fall’s opener
es saw the Generals
looking worlds better
than they did last
ee Stee SE Ross fall, when they bare-
Dick Pinck, Back ly managed to nip
Hampden-Sydney by the close score of 7 to 6.

 

The Generals wasted little time in going to work on
Sewanee in their 1939 innaugural. They scored two points
in the first quarter when a Sewanee back mishandled a
rain-soaked ball while attempting to kick from his own
ten-yard line and was pinned in the end zone by Wadling-
ton and Litteral. In the next period, Tilson’s men, led by
the Pinck brothers, marched 65 yards in seven plays to
reach paydirt with the game’s lone touchdown. The drive
started on Washington and Lee’s 35-yard line when Dick
Pinck cut off tackle for an 18-yard gain. A pass from Dick
to his brother Bob, carried to Sewanee’s 38. Dick then
picked up a first down when he moved to the 34, and an
interference penalty, called on a long
pass from the elder Pinck to Wadling-
ton, put the pigskin on the Sewanee
six. Dick picked up half of the remain-
ing distance when he made his way
through right tackle, and Bob plunged
over on the next play. Dick added the
extra point with another run off right
tackle.

The Generals launched goalward
drives throughout the game but were
unable to reach the payoff stripe again.
They were mighty close to another
score in the closing minutes of play, but
a costly penalty ended that thrust and
left the score at 9-0.

Washington and Lee made scoring
threats against Richmond on four dif-

 

Jim Lindsey, Guard ‘
[16]

 

ferent occasions, but
each time was stop-
ped short of the final
stripe. The Generals’
best effort came early
in the second quarter
when a 78-yard
march, featuring
Brown’sreverseruns,
placed the ball on
Richmond's two-yard
line. That bid failed,
but two more Wash-
ington and Lee
threats kept the Spid-
ers on edge during
the remainder of the
second quarter. The
first saw a 12-yard
aerial, Baugher to
Wadlington, and a 17-yard gain by Brown carry to the
Richmond 11, but a fumble cut that march short. A few
minutes later, another Washington and Lee offensive was
set into action, but this one was halted near the Spiders’
20 by a pass-interception in the closing minutes of the half.

 

 

Bobby Pinck, Back

A 20-yard pass completed a drive from midfield and
gave Richmond its game-winning touchdown in the first
few minutes of the second half. Unwilling to concede de-
feat, the Generals started another drive in the fourth
quarter and moved from their own 14-yard line to their
foemen’s 15, but three passes failed and the home forces
lost the pigskin for the last time.

A determined attack and a courageous defensive dis-
play earned the Generals their 7-7 tie
with Southwestern. Forced to fight an
uphill battle as a result of a Southwest-
ern touchdown which came as the re-
sult of a 40-yard pass early in the open-
ing period, the Generals dug in and tied
the score a few minutes later. Their
touchdown march started deep in their
own territory after Southwestern’s
kickoff and featured a series of reverse
plays and straight line bucks, during
which Justice picked up approximately
50 yards. Brown went over for the
touchdown from the Lynx 11, and
Baugher place-kicked the extra point.

Three intercepted passes halted fur-
ther Washington and Lee scoring at-
temps. Then, in the waning minutes of

~ =. a ; | pee
7 Cr 3% 7 wl

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

play, a 15-yard penalty, another pass
interception, and three productive, run-
ning plays gave Southwestern a first
down on the Generals’ four-yard stripe,
but Washington and Lee’s outweighed
forward-wall smothered four succes-
sive plays and averted what approxi-
mately 10,000 fans thought was certain
defeat.

That’s the team that you'll see dur-
ing Homecoming week-end—the team
that will stack up against Virginia on
November 10 at Wilson Field.

The team that you'll see in a couple
of years ought to show more definitely
the results of the new-deal movement
which is just getting started. This fall’s
freshman squad includes a wealth of

 

n“"

. _~
< » ‘

good interference. Howard Dobbins
accounted for the extra point with a
placement boot. Washington and Lee
tallied another two points in the fourth
quarter when, after Ronnie Thompson
had punted out of bounds on West Vir?
ginia’s four-yard line, Kelly Litteral
dropped Fullback John Carliss behind
his own goal line for a safety.

The whole Washington and Lee
team did everything just about right,
but several players are deserving of
special mention for their efforts. Spark-
ing the offense were the Pinck broth-
ers, Bob and Dick, and Justice. Bob
Pinck led the ground-gainers with a
net gain of 47 yards, while Dick picked
up 29 on his four attempts. Justice

 

talented material, and Tilson and his
associates expect to produce a goodly
number of players who, next year and in coming seasons,
will furnish varsity power. Under the new coaching setup,
yearling practice is held in conjunction with varsity work-
outs. Immediate results, in terms of frosh games, will not
prove impressive, but the first year men are expected to be
far advanced by the time they move up to varsity ball.
That’s the plan that Tilson, Smith, Hennemier and Ellis
hope will put Washington and Lee near the top in the
gridiron world in the not-too-distant future.

Washington and Lee defeated West Virginia for the
| first time in 24 years
on Saturday, October
21, just as this issue
of THe ALUMNI
MAGAZINE was about
to go to press.

 

The Generals out-
played, outfought and
outsmarted a_ heav-
ily-favored Moun-
taineer eleven to win,
9-0. The first score
came early in the
opening period when
Sophomore Pres
Brown took a short
pass from Dan Just-
tice and stepped near-
ly 7O yards to a
touchdown behind

 

 

Joe Baugher, Back

Captain Dick Boisseau, Tackle

played good ball all of the way, and it
was he who started Brown off on his
touchdown run. Thompson, included in the starting line-
up for the first time, did a swell job of punting, while the
entire forward wall blocked and tackled like champions.

The victory was Washington and Lee’s first over the
West Virginia since 1915, when the Generals won on a
forfeit after the Mountaineers had walked off the field
during an argument over a disputed play. Other Wash-
ington and Lee victories in the series which started back
near the turn of the century came in 1913 and 1914.

Last but not least, all Washington and Lee men should
be especially encour-
aged over the per-
formance of the
freshman team itself
which is winning
whether it is expect-
ed to or not.

 

They started out
against a strong team
representing the
Staunton Military
Academy and won by
a score of 12-0, to the
loud cheers of a de-
lighted crowd at Wil-
son Field.

They finish their
season here against
Virginia Tech on No-
vember 3.

 

 

Simmons Trueheart, End

[17]

Lt ZAR \ UI

¥ASHINGI( N & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The 1939 Freshman Squad Roster

ENDS
James Daves 170
Calvin East 180
Ed. McCarty 180
James Parker 184
Bob Tyson 160
Bob York 180

TACKLES
Lillard Ailor 210
John Bannon 186
Ben Ditto 178
Joe Hubbard 228
Bernard Pirog 195
John Rulevich 240

Perry Simmons 213
GUARDS
Don Adams 186
Roy Fabian 183
B. Fitzpatrick 160
Bill Gray 170
Chas. Johnson’ 176
Balfour Mattox 162
Willis Mollett 202
Bill Oswald 175
Francis Russell 185
Charles Szely 193
Mike Selzer 167
BACKS
Ted Ciesla 150
Gene Drake 176
John Ligon 162
Dick Mayo 165
F. McKenna 165
Tom Moncrief 160
P. Perrapato 165
Bus Gruesser 155
John Raaen 202
Frank Socha 200
Dick Wagner 175
James Wheater 190
CENTERS
Bill Bevan 180
Ted Pearson 175
Paul Skillman 210

Weight School

Morgan Prep
Law Wallace
Oceana High
Central High
Bloomfield High
Eastern High

Johnson City High
| Evanston High
Western M. I.
Portsmouth High
Garfield High
New Britain High
Fork Union M. A.

Bronxville High
New Britain High
Jefferson High
New Britain High
Ashland High
Providence High
Van Nuis High
Alleghany High
Mt. Herman High
Garfield High
Scottsbluff High

Garfield High
New Trier
Central High
Prestonburg High
Glass High

John Marshall
Garfield High
Arlington High
North Arlington
Garfield High
New Trier
Burrellville High

Bellville High
Adelphi
Fishburne M. A.

Home

Blanche, Tenn.
Gary, Ind.
Virginia Beach, Va.

Chattanooga, Tenn.

Birmingham, Mich.
Washington, D. C.

Johnson City, Tenn.

Evanston, Ohio
Paducah, Ky.
Portsmouth, Ohio
Garfield, N. J.

New Britain, Conn.
Catonsville, Md.

Scarsdale, N. Y.
New Britain, Conn.
Roanoke, Va.

New Britain, Conn.
Ashland, Ky.
Esmond, R. I.

Los Angeles, Calif.
Cumberland, Md.
Hadley, Mass.
Garfield, N. J.
Scottsbluff, Neb.

Garfield, N. J.
Wilmette, Ill.
Chattanooga, Tenn.
Prestonburg, Ky.
Lymna, Va.
Richmond, Va.
Garfield, N. J.
Columbus, Ohio
No. Arlington, N. J.
Garfield, N. J.
Glencoe, Ill.
Bridgetown, R. I.

Joliet, Il.
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Newark, Del.

The Skeleton Walks— But
It’s No Mystery

(Continued from page 10)

were looking into Lee’s office, in which, you will remem-
ber, there is a large desk, now shut because Lee left it that
way. “look, momma,” shouted the little boy, “there’s
General Lee’s radio!” The mother looked quite shocked
to think her child should display such ignorance. She ex-
plained to him that there were no radios in those days.
‘’That’s not a radio, dear,” said she. ““That’s General Lee’s
folding bed.”

Naturally there are dozens of other stories of like na-
ture, as there always are wherever visitors come to view
anything famous. Perhaps it would be well to do as one
place did and simply post a list of all the foolish questions
in advance, with answers. But, of course, the only real
answer is to remember that you, too, have been a tourist.

As to the Lee Chapel, however, there is no doubt that
as a historic shrine it is becoming more than ever an in-
stitution whose national value will continue to grow.

 

 

 

 

 

Don’t Watt!

Order your

WASHINGTON AND LEE PLATES

by Wedgwood
NOW

On the inside back cover you will find an order blank.
Why not use it today?

 

 

 

 

 

McCRUM’S

wy

Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY
In Lexington and Vicinity

Vv

WHITMAN’S
and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
yo
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

Y

Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

An Alumnus Writes From China

HE following graphic picture of conditions in war-
oe China was received by Dan Owen, Class Agent
for 1912 from his classmate, the Reverend Lloyd R.
Craighill. THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE presents the letter,
not only for those who know Mr. Craighill but for the
general interest of what it tells.

Shanghai, China, June 5, 1939.
Dear Dan:

When you see that I am just answering your letter
of April 25, 1938, you will probably say the easygoing
ways of the Far East have got a strong hold on me. Well,
1 admit that my healthy attitude towards overwork, which
is part of my prized Virginia heritage, has not been al-
lowed to deteriorate in these subtropical climes. But that
is not the only reason why your letter has not been an-
swered sooner. Your letter had to chase me around quite
a bit before it finally found me in Kuling, where I had
gone to help take care of a group of about five hundred
refugees, most of them staff members of this diocese, and
other Christian families who had been forced to flee from
their homes by the unspeakable conditions that accom-
panied the army of invasion.

I had been in Wuhu when that city was captured just
before the fall of Nanking, and so I knew what bombs
can do to the civilian population, and I knew what hap-
pens when a city is captured. This made me all the more
anxious to get as many of our people out of the line of
the tornado as possible. The little western community on
top of the Kuling mountains seemed about as safe a place
as there was available, and so it proved to be for a few
months. We made the most of these months by holding a
training institute for our Chinese staff members, clergy,
evangelistic workers and teachers. It was a sort of course
of learning by doing, for there were all sorts of oppor-
tunities to be of service among the sick, the wounded, and
the refugees who flocked to that mountain top.

But the tide of battle moved steadily in our direction
until our retreat became just a peak in the midst of a sea
of battle all about us. Day after day we looked down on
one of the fiercest battlefields of the war. The explosion
of bombs and shells constantly shook our windows, and
sometimes all night the machine guns and rifles kept up
their chatter. We couldn’t tell how the tide of battle was
running until we tuned in on London at night and got
news of what was happening on the plains below us.

This kept up for several months and still there was no
decision. In spite of our reserve supply, food was getting
very scarce, and we had 500 people to feed. All the regu-
lar avenues of egress were cut off and only one mountain
trail that led between two battle fronts remained open. It
was a difficult decision, with so many women, children
and old people to care for, but we decided that we had to
move, and move we did. I will never forget what some of
those women with bound feet and children in their arms
had to undergo in that fifty-mile hike down a rough
mountain trail, across the plain just behind the firing line,
with planes constantly overhead. We would all duck for
cover when the planes appeared and hope for the best,
but one of our groups got caught in the open and had to
take their chances with bombs and machine gun bullets.
Baggage was pierced with shell fragments, and many
were spattered with mud from the exploding bombs, but
fortunately no one was killed.

After many adventures we got our flock safely to Nan-
chang, but since that city was being constantly bombed
we could not safely stay there, but moved further on to
the south where we finally got our folks divided into va-
rious groups and safely disposed in small towns back in
the mountains away from the main highways. Here again
we got church groups started, evangelistic work organ-
ized, and schools for refugee children under way.

It took a couple of months to get things jostled down
there, but by Christmas time I was able to get to Shanghai
to rejoin my wife who was living in the American School
and looking after our three children there. They are:
Lloyd Rutherford, Jr., age 13; Mary Katherine, age 11;
and Peyton Gardner, age 9. Since then the bishop has
kept me here in Shanghai as acting diocesan treasurer
while the regular treasurer is taking a much-needed fur-
lough.

Of course I should have answered your letter sooner
and sent the inclosed check for $10.00 (two years) in
time for your report at Finals, but under the circum-
stances I hope you will forgive me. At least you will know
fam thinking of you all when you assemble in good old
Lexington for another alumni reunion in the loveliest spot
in the world. I may get back there myself some day.

My personal greetings and all sorts of good wishes to
you, Dan. As ever,

Cordially yours,

Ltoyp R. CRAIGHILL

[19]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

Alumni Class Fund Contributions Show Gain

THE FINAL STANDING of the classes in the Alumni
Fund for the year 1939 appears in this issue, giving the
number of contributors and amount contributed as well as
the name of the class agent for each class.

We take this opportunity to congratulate the class
agents on surpassing all other years both in number of
contributors and amount contributed.

The Class Agent Plan was started in 1933 and has
shown a steady growth. Records in the Alumni Office
show that in the seven years 2,070 different alumni have
contributed to this fund. It is hoped that a list of these
contributors will be published in the Alumni Issue of The
Ring-tum Phi appearing in January.

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1869-91......19.........06 $118.00 Alumni Office
1892 11 225.00 Hale Houston
1893 13 185.00 B. A. Judd
BP adatiecnve ee iiothen: 15.00...... Alumni Office
SU MERIALL,” > snckaindinct

18965 devin a 155.00 H. H. Larimore
SIF ite easel 11.00 Alumni Office
1898 12 93.00 Edward A. O’Neal
NPP ilicecdaces Be Alhécted GE Bes cecdsrdisivecrtelins Rev. Jas. A. McClure
Bei ccsichstines Biosualen 70.00 Hilton S. Hampton
Sie | Wier 37.50 Clarence C. Burns
Rieti i taintes 85.00 Osman E. Swartz
BO eiikesdsind acebeckeaia 146.00.......... Colonel James Warren Bagley
OR icisncd Rabiscsenbib 39.50 K. I. McKay
Sei | On 53.50 Walter G. Riddick
1906.........0. i nuncmea Deitch cescccecccess Dr. F. R. Crawford
LOG tabs ois Bibivonticssid 77.50 W. R. J. Dunn
1908 A........ a ce 81.00 Peyton Hobson
TFS Biocsiesses Wiisechateaes 50.00 E. L. Beale
1909 A........ Re re DEF i igicein Dr. Devall L. Gwathmey
1909 L......... D pibvintes Aah ectilititielscesbinns Judge E. C. Caffrey
1910 A........ iil 225.00 Rayford W. Alley
SO Er Rasiedin Te steghen Fie nedasdieominens Orange W. Richardson
1911 A........ BP vspthciacets 101.00 F. P. Guthrie
1911 L........ Pees 33.50 .....Qmar T. Kaylor
) ya ae Be tains Raises Dan B. Owen
BDAZ Ly. .cccies RU niothed 57.00 Judge A. G. Lively
1913 A........ DP cosine 154.00 Lewis Twyman
B913 1y..c.00, Ratatat Sis sotiscvensesads Howard P. Macfarlane
1914 A........ BUisitassenl 136.00 Wayne Ely
0904 Ti. .....: Seas 70.00 Ben D. Smith
1915 A........ ee aba 136.70 Paul C. Thomas
IOUS Dcticon Diecidue 45.00 Arthur M. Birdsall
1916 A........ Seid meas EE Battle Bagley
1916 L......... F scabnckcses 27.00 Sam P. Kohen
O47 As iais ad isis. 140.50 Marion Sanders
BEE Leicceons tai init li clikoacesihe cigs LaFayette B. Chafin
1918 A........ ee. 70.00 A. S. Marx
Se MOR atees -cetbdieases

1919 A........ Seite FR icpcvoshecclicciicoivaaes Dr. T. Dewey Davis
hp CR aera s

1920 A........ r Tectia 128.00 Thomas M. Stubbs
1920 3.4.1 Dicotdiehe’ 36.00 L. Berkeley Cox

 

Class Contributors Amt.

Class Agent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1921 A........ Se iecscass 94.50 John L. Patterson
BFBE Dijcccnsce Sills ated 40.00 John Bell
Re mci 1Aiiei ee: PRESSE TREE, Troy C. Musselwhite
RFE Mpicccenss Misssinenes IE Edmund D. Campbell
+ See 31.50 Edward Aull
19Z3 Ty. .00<00. usdeiecohinn 15.00 .Cy Hall
1924 A......... i ccinkiiacaia 65.00 Frank C. Switzer
1924-L........ Trwssoeeabs PAI dias mntavicios Randolph G. Whittle
RO... A caine 77.00 Murrel D. Klein
| Ritieocend 57.50 George T. Clark
1926 A......... Scsiathte 62.00 Emmett MacCorkle
RO Bierce Bie iii 22.00 Basil G. Watkins
4 a a aii semesbine 93.43 Kenneth A. Durham
EET Bihorcaess Ge hikes 30.00 Rhea Whitley
1928 A........ Bhcaddiek 53.00 .. Ed Miller
1928 L,...0... . 22.00 R. W. Jordan
1929 A......... hd 171.00 Allen Morgan
19Z9 Ty...c00ce Diba sevcess 10.00 Ralph M. McLane
1930 A......... Pais... 98.50 Edward S. Graves
1930 Tp...c00s- ea 30.00 Leonard H. Davis
i, 99.00 Ben M. Ayars
BOSE Kgecssecés Ee 20.00 James B. Martin
1RRAA... css citi 53.50 Kemper Jennings
IOS Bh assinitin TN eis 47 DD .nccunesntsentniuaean Martin P. Burks, III
1933 A........ ST tticsces 80.00 Luther Violett, Jr.
1938 Lscz: The ics 27.50 Donald K. Crawford
1934 A......... ihateccnée 60.00 George D. McClure
1934 L,....0000 Todi agit 27.00 Taylor Jones
EEE Di cocseees SP eMassbnais 47.00 William Schuhle
1935 L,...00000 Tiiecenean 7.00 W. W. Brown
1936 A........ ani 46.00 Tyree F. Wilson
icin euveseveopde

1937 A........ Bi ocestiosses 53.00 Fielden Woodward
BT pshcscecs P cbaihabicls NOOO ik ieee Stanley C. Higgins, Jr.
1938 A........ Ws eacenoes 44.00............ Sam P. McChesney, Jr.
aa a I ar, SR a

1939-40 ...... Bidustecdebee 5.00 Alumni Office
SUEY Wibadcicd Da sinokect 10.00 bis

a | ES + $5567.63

 

Alumni in the Florida Senate

THE electorate of Florida seems to be unusually intelli-
gent in picking its legislature, for one-fifth of the Florida
senate this year are Washington and Lee men. This in-
formation was communicated to The Ring-tum Phi by
Max M. Brown, 1904, who passed through Lexington this
fall on his way to his home in Lake City, Florida.

 

Lee F. WASHINGTON, JR., 1934, announces the open-
ing of offices for the general practice of law at 1516 At-
lantic Avenue, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

[20]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Two New Chapters Organized

SINCE the last issue of THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE two
new alumni chapters have been organized :

In Chattanooga, Tennessee, on June 19 a group of
alumni met for dinner on beautiful Lookout Mountain
and perfected plans for the organization of the Chatta-
nooga chapter, electing Clarence Avery, 1914, president,
and Charlie Claunch, 1927, secretary.

On July 5 at the River Oaks Country Club, ten alumni
of Houston, Texas, were the guests of J. R. Neal, 1915.
At this dinner the Houston chapter was formally organ-
ized with Thomas D. Anderson, 1924, president, and
James Ruth, 1937, secretary.

Cy Young, alumni secretary, was present at both of
these meetings.

Both of these chapters are planning their first regular
meeting in the early winter, hoping to have all local alumni
present. The University will be represented at these meet-
ings by some member of the administration or the faculty.

 

Washington

Wallace Werble, A.B. 1933, submitted the following
enthusiastic report of the last meeting of the Washing-
ton chapter :

The Washington alumni chapter held the first in its
regular season series of monthly luncheons on Septem-
ber 16, at the Carelton Hotel in Washington. The meeting
was presided over by Richard W. Hynson, class president
of the Washington chapter, and the discussion dealt with
the new alumni scholarship regulations of the University
and a report of the chapter’s athletic committee which has
been studying the situation at the University for the past
year.

The members present were unanimous in the enthus-
iastic endorsement of the University’s new policy in re-
gard to alumni scholarships, and hope was expressed that
nothing would occur to change or reduce the scope of the
scholarship program.

Bill Raferty, alumnus and former head football coach
at Washington and Lee and V. M. I., now located at
Richmond, made a special trip to Washington to address
the luncheon meeting. In a general discussion of football,
Mr. Raferty recalled some of the prominent players who
wore Washington and Lee uniforms in past years and

quoted nationally prominent coaches who were high in
their praise of the players. He contended that there are
no master-mind coaches in football, and said that even the
closest approach to a master-mind, the late Knute Rockne,
made his quota of mistakes.

Raferty also said that the proper coaching of fresh-
man football players in the fundamentals of the game
could not be overstressed. He explained that he did not
care if a freshman team ever won a game, although win-
ning is desirable from the players’ point of view, but that
all that really mattered was whether the freshman play-
ers were grounded in the fundamentals. He said a fresh-
man player who does not get the fundamentals means the
loss of a year or two when the player advances to the
varsity.

 

Memphis

Though this might not be described as a meeting in
the conventional sense, it certainly had the effect of get-
ting a lot of alumni together for a good time and an ex-
change of Washington and Lee ideas. The occasion was
an entertainment and dance, given at the Memphis Uni-
versity Club by the chapter in Memphis for the particular
purpose of honoring the football team after its game with
Southwestern.

Secretary Cy Young called it one of the best alumni
parties he had ever attended, and the football players
joined him in praise. Dancing was in order from the end
of the game until the train left at nine. Alumni and their
wives were present, not only from Tennessee but from
Arkansas and Mississippi as well. The president of the
chapter, J. Milledge Nail, and his committee are to be
congratulated.

 

Louisville

The Louisville Association held its annual meeting for
new students on August 16 at the Louisville Boat Club.
Peel Rivers, 1933, secretary and treasurer of the organi-
zation, commented on the meeting as follows:

Everyone was introduced around and enjoyed a fine
fried chicken dinner. President Foree welcomed all the
students and visitors and told them how anxious he was
to have the present students in our alumni group when
they get out. Howard Dobbins told us about the schedule

[21]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

of football this fall and expressed his confidence in the
coaching staff. He also invited us all to the big homecom-
ing celebration in November. (Incidentally I believe there
will be a few of us from here come down.)

The following were present at the meeting :

Bob Foree, Jr., 1927; Greenberry Simmons, 1927;
Peel Rivers, 1933; Henry K. Hill, 1925; R. B. Morrison,
1938; R. A. Bate, Jr., 1928; Alex M. Forrester, Jr., 1931;
Chas. D. Mercke, 1929; M. B. O’Sullivan, 1908; Martin
Z. Kaplan, 1936; Tom Nugent, Jr., 1938; E. B. Walker,
Jr., 1938; Temple Lewis, 1938.

Oldham Clarke, 1928; Ernest Woodward II, 1940;
Fielden Woodward, 1937; Ernest Woodward, Sr.; Jim-
mie Weber, 1942; Phil Boden, 1942; E. S. Clarke, Jr.,
1928; John J. Davis, 1892; John J. Davis, Jr., 1939;
Charles H. Semple, Jr., 1939; T. Kennedy Helm, Jr.,
1940; Bill Whaley, 1940.

Tom Bradley, 1939; Howard Dobbins, 1941; Geo. E.
Burks, 1927; H. Edward Rietzie, Jr., 1925; Dan Justice,
1941; Bob Stein, 1941; Jean Friedberg, 1941; James La
Plante ; Gene Becker, 1938; G. Hunt Collins, 1939; Louis
J. Herrmann, 1939; and Wm. Karraker, 1937.

 

Marriages

Nogsopy seems to want to remain a bachelor this year,
and the Alumni Office has been gladdened recently by a
positive din of wedding bells. Some of the recent mar-
riages are recorded here with congratulations to all con-
cerned.

OLLINGER CRENSHAW of the class of 1925 married
Miss Marjorie Burford on the twenty-second of last June
in Texarkana, Texas. They are at home now in Lexington
where Ollie is still teaching history for Washington and
Lee.

NatHan Maxon ‘Terry, LL.B. of 1927, and Miss
Rebecca Wolcott were married in Christ Church, Dover,
Delaware, on October 3. The bride’s father, Chancellor
Wolcott, was a former senator from Delaware and at the
time of his death last fall the highest judicial officer of
the state supreme court.

Rosert Enciisu FieEvp, 1934, and Miss Shirley
Johnston became man and wife in St. Stephens Church,
Cocoanut Grove, Florida, on June 17.

WiLLtiAaMm DuncAN McDavip, class of 1935, married
Miss Blanche Louise Lamai on Saturday, October 7, at
the First Methodist Church of Pensacola, Florida.

WILLIAM CHRISTIAN Epwarps, 1932, was married to
Miss Winifred Jane Fisher on June 14 in Saint Louis.
The bride and groom announced that they would be at

home after the fifteenth of July at 4910 McPherson Ave-
nue, Saint Louis.

JoseEpH FRANK BEAR, 1933, married Miss Margaret
Garrison Morton in Warrenton, Virginia, on the fifteenth
of July. Their new address will be 105 Wilmington Road,
Montgomery, Alabama. ;

BEN ANDERSON THIRKIELD, 1936, and Miss Nancy
Jane Smith were married on the third of June in Middle-
town, Ohio.

JAMES Ross Crom, LL.B. of 1937, the most recent
alumnus whose announcement has been received, was
married on the twenty-ninth of July in Toledo, Ohio, to
Miss Virginia Vinnedge.

 

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. Maynarp Hort’ announced the arrival
of R. Maynard, Jr., on July 6, 1939. Mr. Holt graduated
in 1927 and was on the football team, captain of wrest-
ling, and president of the student body.

T. P. Wricut of the class of 1929 sent in the follow-
ing announcement: “Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Perrin
Wright, 1929, are the parents of a son born June 23, 1939.
He is their second child, the first being a girl. Mr. Wright
is principal of the Great Falls High School, Great Falls,
South Carolina.”

 

In Memoriam

Jupce WituiaM A. BELL, class of 1893 and LL.B. of
1895, died last July in Alexandria, Louisiana. Judge Bell,
who had been a member of the Court of Appeals of Louis-
iana, was a native of New Orleans where he practiced law
most of his life. For a short time in 1928 he served as
alumni secretary for Washington and Lee.

Joun E. Martin, superintendent of schools in Suf-
folk County and a man well known among Washington
and Lee’s alumni, was the victim of a tragic automo-
bile accident on September 5. Mr. Martin, who was A.B.
of 1911 and M.A. of 1914, was one of the founders of
ODK, and for a while in 1914 taught English at Wash-
ington and Lee. He was on the campus last spring for the
ODK twenty-fifth anniversary celebration.

GrorcE H. Paut, 1915, for twenty-six years an attor-
ney in Richmond, died there on August 9.

WILLIAM GLENN Epwarps, LL.B. of 1917, died on
June 29 in Johnson City, Tennessee. He had been a mem-
ber of the Virginia House of Delegates and was for twelve
years commonwealth’s attorney for Carroll County.

[22]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1874

BisHop JAMES R. WINCHESTER lives at 218 Crest-
mere Place, Memphis, Tennessee. He writes: “I doubt
whether any student ever left college with more delightful
memories of Lexington and the University, than I have.”

Jupce W. H. Tayvoe lives in Uniontown, Alabama,
and writes of pleasant recollections of his college days.
His letter is most interesting, and we hope to publish it
in full in some future issue of the magazine.

1876

Dr. WiLLiAM E. Docp is living at 555 Seventeenth
Street, University, Virginia. He says: “Although more
than a half century has passed, since with scores of genial
companions, I tramped the campus grass and walked the
halls of Washington and Lee, I retain affectionate, never
fading recollections of those days and associates, and feel
warm interest in anything affecting the University. He
was a visitor here for Finals.

Dr. J. H. DILvarp lives in Charlottesville, Virginia.
He has recently published a book, From News Stand To
Cyrano, which has been enthusiastically praised by many
thoughtful readers.

1883

Jupcr Joun T. IRELAND has passed his seventy-sixth
birthday and is still active as an official at several race-
tracks in the country, New Orleans, St. Louis, Cleveland,

etc. His address is Paris, Kentucky. *

1884

Harrison B. SMITH is a member of the
law firm of Price, Smith and Spilman, Ka-
nawha Banking and Trust Company Build-
ing, Charleston, West Virginia.

BENJAMIN T. Brook has for many
years practiced law in Dade County, Geor-
gia, where he has served as county attorney.
He served in Georgia regiment in the
Spanish-American War, served two terms
in the Georgia House of Representatives
and one term in the Georgia Senate.

 

1885

Tuomas L,. GLADDEN lives at Annapolis, Maryland.
His address is Route 3, Box 434. He has been teaching
fifty-four years, fifteen years of this time on the staff of
mathematics in St. John’s College. He is now retired.

1886

GrorcE K. McL&enpon organized the McLendon
Hardware Company in Waco, Texas, in 1894, and has
been its president and active manager since that time.

SAMUEL S. GuERANT, M. D., is proprietor of the Al-
goma Orchards, Callaway, Virginia.

W. J. Humpureys retired in 1934 from the George
Washington University as Professor Emeritus and since
that time has written many books and articles on scientific

subjects. He lives at the Cosmos Club in Washington,
2 ie be

1887

THE REVEREND E. R. LEyBuRN retired from the pas-
torate of the First Presbyterian Church, Rome, Georgia,
three years ago, after a service of sixteen years. His re-
tirement from that position, however, has not meant ces-
sation of work, as he is now superintendent of Home
Missions in his Presbytery, as well as supply pastor of
one of the mission churches. He has spent forty-five years
in the active ministry.

1889

A. G. EWING is a member of the law firm of Ewing
and Ewing, Nashville Trust Building, Nashville, Tennes-
see. He has four children and eight grand-
children, and has been practicing law con-
tinuously since 1891. He says: “As I grow
in service and weary sooner than in other
days, I delight to summons into the chan-
cery of my memory those active witnesses
of the days spent at Washington and Lee,
and put them under cross-examination on
their careers.”

J. T. DRAKE is practicing law in Port
Gibson, Mississippi, where he has been
it? since taking his law degree here in 1890. He
received his A.B. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1889.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1890

A. K. Bow Es is still with the Consolidated Coal Com-
pany, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York.

1892

W. G. WIcLEsworTH is in charge of the Wiglesworth
Bros. Company, Cynthiana, Kentucky.

Epwarp GRANDISON SMITH is practicing law under
the firm name of Smith and Smith, Clarksburg, West
Virginia.

Mayor-GENERAL Ropert HENRY ALLEN, United

States Army, retired, lives at 1048 Grenada Way, San
Marino, California.

1893

Wa ter E. Harris is president and editor of The
Progress-Index of Petersburg, Virginia. He and his wife
spent several months in Florida last winter.

Russett A. McCoy is an attorney at law, 123 West
Berkley Avenue, Norfolk, Virginia.

P. M. Kist er is practicing law in the Exchange Na-
tional Bank Building, Colorado Springs, Colorado.

J. T. Morcan is head of the firm of J. T. Morgan and
Company, Real Estate and Investments, Union Planters
Bank Building, Memphis, Tennessee. He has had four
sons at Washington and Lee.

1894

Preston J. BEALE is eastern sales representative of
the Standard Oil Company of Indiana, 1709 Chanin
Building, New York. He lives at the Columbia University
Club, 4 West Forty-third Street.

1897

LeRoy C. Barret? is having a Sabbatical year from
Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut and is taking ad-
vantage of it to continue work which he has had in hand
for several years. He has just finished his term as presi-
dent of the American Oriental Society at their meeting
in Baltimore in April.

1899

Artuur M. Suipp, retired colonel United States
Army, lives at 2350 Granada Way, South, St. Petersburg,
Florida. He is a frequent visitor to Lexington, which is
his native town, and has many close ties here.

Harry CARMICHAEL is general superintendent of the
Kentucky Rock and Asphalt Company at Kyrock, Ken-

tucky. He is a member of the University Board of
Trustees.

1900

Rosert A. Watson is still practicing law in Char-
lottesville, Virginia, although he says he expected to retire
at sixty years of age. Having reached this mark, how-
ever, he has changed his mind and made the limit sixty-
five ; but he expects to do more fishing from now on.

1901

W. R. ALLEN is attorney for the Sinclair Refining
Company, 135 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois.
After graduation he went to Oklahoma and practiced there
until 1919. The greater part of the time he was assistant
general attorney for the M. K. and T. Railroad. In 1919
he became associated with the Sinclair Refining Company
and moved to Chicago.

1902

J. Woop Gtass says that he pursues the policy of let-
ting people know just as little as possible about his activi-
ties. He says: “I never leave town, according to the papers,
and rarely ever return when I do leave.” He is a member
of the law firm of Glass and Chappell, Nowata, Oklahoma.

Birt ALLEN says: “Though it is thirty-seven years
later than it used to be, life is still an exciting adventure
with the goal of our endeavors still just ahead and still
just out of reach. One daughter, an A.M. at Holyoke,
Massachusetts, one teaching at St. Catherine’s School in
Richmond, Virginia, and two boys ages 16 and 14 at home,
keep me and Mrs. Allen everlastingly on the job. After
working during spare time for the last ten years in the
field of human heredity, I have just been given help for
this research by one of the foundations and expect to have
an interesting time this year exploring the field.” His
home is in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Witson M. JERKINs lives in Round Lake, Florida. He
is working at some new inventions.

1903

D. R. Puetps, D.D.S. in 1907 of the Atlanta Dental
College, practiced dentistry a year in South Georgia, then
moved to Lynchburg, Virginia, in 1908 and has been in
the active practice of his profession there since that time.
His address is 809 Church Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Tuomas C. TurRNER lives in Fort Collins, Colorado.
He is manager of the Mountain States Telephone and
Telegraph Company, is married and has two sons.

Joun W. Warner continues the practice of medicine
and surgery in Washington, D. C. His address is 1029
Vermont Avenue.

[24]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ferris A. SAMPSON has been married for nearly thirty
years to a Kentucky girl whose forefather was friend and
neighbor to his forefather in Culpepper County, Virginia,
just 200 years ago. His three daughters are growing up,
but he admits that this is accomplishing just nothing for
the perpetuity of Washington and Lee. His work has been
in trust investments and estate management.

1904

Harry W. HAMILTON is stated clerk and treasurer of
the Presbytery of Western Texas. His home is in Cou-
tulla, Texas. He has served two churches since 1909.

E. W. PoinpDEXTER is practicing law
in Roanoke, Virginia, under the firm
name of Poindexter and Poindexter,
Shenandoah Life Building.

Witiiam W. Bays lives at 1458 Co- f
lumbia Road, Washington, D. C.

1905

MALcoLM CAMPBELL is a district
manager of The Investors’ Syndicate.
His headquarters are in Lexington.

S. C. Harrison went to France as
colonel of the 116th Field Artillery and
saw service in the Argonne. He was later
transferred to the command of the Sixth Field Artil-
lery, First Division, under General Summerall. Upon
his return from France he elected to make the Regular
Army his career, and has been in the regular service since.
For the past four years he has been in the Philippine Is-
lands serving on the staff of Major General Douglas Mac-
Arthur, military adviser to the Philippine Commonwealth.
He has been assigned to duty in the Second Division at
Fort Sam Houston and will arrive there sometime during
February, 1940. His title is Major, Infantry, U. S. A. His
oldest son was a student at Washington and Lee from
1926 to 1929, and his youngest son graduated from the
U. S. Military Academy in the class of 1937. Major Har-
rison was vice-president of the class of 1905 in his fresh-
man year. He gives a vivid description of a class fight
while painting “Old George,” the scars which he received
still remaining with him.

1906

MarK W. SHEAFE, attorney-at-law, Watertown, South
Dakota, writes: “As many of the fellows, who attended
Washington and Lee in 1904, 1905 and 1906, will recall
the ‘Washington and Lee Swing” was first played by me
as a solo, so to speak, on my mandolin and later as an en-
core—to the accompaniment of Red Porter’s guitar—I

 

can see Red now, with his Joe E. Brown mouth well filled
with Kentucky Burley. Later I taught the “Swing” to the
mandolin and guitar club and the same was used as one
of the members in the concerts that were given by that
club in conjunction with the Glee Club.” The copyright is
now in his name.

CLAuDE Posst is enjoying a good law practice in
Grundy, Virginia. His youngest son is a student at Mc-
Callie’s School and is looking forward to entering Wash-
ington and Lee.

Basit MANLy has been appointed by the president as
vice-chairman of the National Defense
Power Committee. The duty of this com-
mission is to insure an adequate supply

ERR : of electric power in the event of war.
pret \\
MS
‘Ss ‘6 / 1907
SN wet V. Gi-morE IDEN is secretary of the
| i American Institute of Steel Construc-
| ag tion. He is married and has one daugh-
; \ <i ter, Gloria Potter Iden, who is being edu-
"Heng cated in France.

C. A. ENGLE is pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, Williamson, West
Virginia, where he has been for the past
eleven years. His congregation is build-
ing a handsome new church.

W. F. SEMPLE is with the Deep Rock Oil Corpora-
tion, Atlas Life Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1908

JameEs L. MILLs is practicing law at 336 Monticello
Arcade, Norfolk, Virginia.

W. H. JAcKSON is a member of the law firm of Mc-
Kay, Macfarlane, Jackson and Ramsey, Maas Office
Building, Tampa, Florida.

PrytTon Hopson is a member of the law firm of Har-
man, Francis and Hobson, Pikeville, Kentucky. His old-
est boy is in the United States Naval Academy, and he has
a boy and girl at home.

Henry M. (Burtey) Wire is president of the
North American Oil Company, Fidelity Building, Balti-
more, Maryland. He is married and has a son fifteen years
old in McDonough School near Baltimore, and a daughter
seventeen.

Jor Moore is vice-president of the Greenbrier Mili-
tary School at Lewisburg, West Virginia.

ABE SOMERVILLE is practicing law at 76 South Court
Street, Cleveland, Mississippi.

[25]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1909

S. Gwynn Cok is professor of history and political
science in Florida Southern College, Lakeland, Florida,
where he has been for the past twelve years.

Ewinc S. Humpnureys is contracting engineer with
the Virginia Bridge Company, with offices in the Healey
Building, Atlanta, Georgia. He is in charge of the South-
ern division of the Virginia Bridge Company. His son,
Ewing, Jr., will enter Washington and Lee next session.

Frep N. Harrison is with the Universal Leaf To-
bacco Company, Exporters and Importers, Richmond,
Virginia.

Guytse P. McCorp is a member of the law firm of

McCord and Collins, Lewis State Bank Building, Talla-
hassee, Florida. He has a son and daughter in college.

H. Lester Hooker is a member of the State Corpora-
tion Commission, Richmond, Virginia.

1910

Jrm Carson is a member of the law firm of Carson,
Petteway and Stembler, Congress Building, Miami, Fla.

M. H. Myerson is practicing law in Jacksonville,
Florida, with offices in the Professional Building.

G. R. Forrson has been located in Susanville, Cali-
fornia, since 1924, doing general medical and surgical
practice. Susanville is situated in the Honey Lake Valley
at the junction of mountains and desert. He is married
and has a daughter, eleven. He has not seen an alumnus
of Washington and Lee for fifteen or twenty years.

E. T. Burr is still with the Durham Life Insurance
Company, Raleigh, North Carolina.

O. A. CHIDESTER is an accountant with the Retire-
ment System of the City of San Diego, California.

Wo. Gaston CaPERTON is located in New York with
with the Smokeless Coal Corporation, that being a regu-
lar sales agency, representing producers of smokeless coal
in southern West Virginia. His home address is 385 West
Rochelle, Bronxville, New York.

W. W. GwaTHMEY is an engineer with the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad. His address is 912 Goff Building,
Clarksburg, West Virginia.

1911
J. GRANVILLE JOHNSON lives in Murat, Virginia.
Mayor CLEMENTS McMULLEN is air corps chief en-

gineering officer, stationed at Duncan Field, San Antonio,
Texas. He is in direct charge of approximately 750 ci-

vilian employees who are engaged in the overhaul and re-
pair of United States Army Air Corps airplanes in that
area.

FREDERICK S. JOHNSON lives at 1006 Overbrook Road,
Wilmington, Delaware.

Henry W. Dew is with the Florida National Build-
ing Corporation, Barnett National Bank Building, Jack-
sonville, Florida.

Rosert A. RussELL wrote from Rustburg, Virginia,
on his return from a meeting of the Governing Boards
of State Universities and Allied Institutions held at
Boulder, Colorado. He represented Virginia Polytechnic
Institute at the meeting, and while there saw Mrs. Joseph
R. Long, widow of our former law school professor.

WILLIAM FRANKLIN BLANTON is county judge in
Miami, Florida. He has held this office for twenty years.

1912

J. BLacksurn Warts is prosecuting attorney of Ka-
nawha County, West Virginia.

O. L. McDona tp is practicing law in Clarksburg,
West Virginia. His son entered the Washington and Lee
Law School in September.

Bit ACKERLY is serving his twelfth year as common-
wealth’s attorney for Rockbridge County, Virginia.

W. S. DunwN is winding up his sixteenth year as prose-
cuting attorney of Bland County, Virginia.

FREEMAN H. Hart is a professor of history at
Hampden-Sydney College. He is also national president
of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

Artos J. HarBEr’ is judge of the Criminal Court of
Harrison County, Clarksburg, West Virginia.

Brown Lewis is with the Nehi Bottling Works, Char-
leston, West Virginia.

WittiaM MILteEr, of the American Mission, Teheran,

. Iran, will be in this country in October on vacation.

1913

Wm. H. Wome porr is farming near Lexington. His
address is Route 5, Box 25, Lexington, Virginia.

Howarb ZERKLE is president of The Bank of St. Al-
bans, St. Albans, West Virginia.

P. D. Converse is teaching in the University of Illi-
nois at Urbana.

lL, DEwoopy LyLg has been actively engaged in the

[26]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

practice of law in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, for the past
twenty years.

CHARLES H. TompkKINs is a member of the firm of
McRae and Tompkins, Prescott, Arkansas.

T. R. BANnpy has been practicing law in Kingsport,
Tennessee, since 1916. He served as city attorney for the
city of Kingsport from 1918 to 1931. He has one son 22
years of age. He was elected county judge of Sullivan
County in 1936 for a six-year term.

Witiiam T. HANZSCHE is minister of the Prospect
Street Presbyterian Church of Trenton, New Jersey.

Joun L. Crist is with the Southern
Dyestuff Corporation, P. O. Box 1045,
Charlotte, North Carolina. His son is a .
student at McCallie School in Chatta- eee a
nooga this year and is slated for Wash-
ington and Lee in September, 1941.

J. M. QuiItiin, Jr., is president of
the Quillin Coal Company, Coeburn, Vir-
ginia. He practiced law until about two
years ago, but since that time has de-
voted his entire time to his own business
interests. He has four children, two girls and two boys.

1914

A. C. BUCHANAN is judge of the Twenty-second Ju-
dicial Circuit, Tazewell, Virginia.

Harry MILLER is practicing law in Hinton, West
Virginia.

WALTER J. WILKINS is solicitor for the Federal Com-
press and Warehouse Company in Pine Bluff, Arkansas,
and has charge of all the crop and cotton loans handled
through the Pine Bluff office. He married Lelia Coles in
1916, and has three children. The oldest, Walter J., Jr.,
is a junior at Washington and Lee, pre-medical. Howard
Coles Wilkins is the second child and is slated to enter
Washington and Lee in the fall of 1942. The youngest
child is a girl, Lelia, six years old, and “Happy” says she
bids fair to be as beautiful as her mother. Of course she
will not attend Washington and Lee, but if she is as beau-
tiful as “Happy” states, then Washington and Lee stu-
dents will probably attend her.

D. B. WinrreEy, Washington, D. C., is an attorney in
the Department of Justice, and has been for the past ten
years.

DaniEL C. BUCHANAN is a Presbyterian missionary
in Japan. He still does his banking in Winchester, Vir-
ginia, and drives a Plymouth automobile. From a pamph-

 

let which he enclosed with his letter his life is decidedly
interesting.

Bos McCiinvrock is the president of W. S. McClin-
tock and Sons Company, General Merchants and Cotton
Buyers, of Marianna, Arkansas, and claims to be living
the life of a typical Southern gentleman by sitting around
and letting someone else do the work. He says he is try-
ing to train his brothers, O. W. and W. E. (both Wash-
ington and Lee alumni), but they are too fond of work to
qualify as Southern gentlemen. Recently Bob was elected
mayor of Marianna and says that he can now write his
own pardon if he is picked up for vagrancy.

1915

GEorGE S. Morrison is vice-presi-
dent of Rodgers and Company, Cotton
Merchants, of Norfolk, Virginia. He is
in the Houston, Texas, office.

Howarp STuck is owner and opera-

tor of the Piggly-Wiggly, Jonesboro

“ Company, at Jonesboro, Arkansas. He
is married and has three children.

Maptson P. Cog lives at 1735 New
Hampshire Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

J. Matcotm Aparr is practicing dentistry in Lexing-
ton, Virginia.

Dick Fow kgs is practicing medicine in Richmond,
Virginia, with offices in the Professional Building. He is
a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees, and a fre-
quent visitor to the campus.

1916

SELDEN McNEER is a member of the law firm of
Campbell and McNeer, First Huntington National Bank
Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

VIVIAN PaGE served in the House of Delegates of
Virginia from 1924 to 1935 when he was elected to the
Senate, of which he is still a member.

LYNCH CHRISTIAN is with the Imperial Colliery Com-
pany, Lynchburg, Virginia.

D. T. Hyarr is practicing medicine in Little Rock,
Arkansas, and is associate professor of medicine in the
University of Arkansas Medical School.

EcHot MarsHALt is with the Continental Can Com-
pany, 100 East Forty-second Street, New York, of which
Oscar Huffman, alumnus and member of the University
Board of Trustees, is president.

[27]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1917

CHArLI£ PETERS is a member of the law firm of Moh-
ler, Peters and Snyder, Security Bank Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Joun R. Branp is an attorney-at-law, Hobbs, New
Mexico.

HERBERT PETERS is a member of the firm of Peters,
Lavinder, Peters and Rouse, Attorneys-at-Law, Bristol,
Virginia-Tennessee.

Paut D. Barnks is judge of the Circuit Court, Miami,
Florida.

Jort W. FLoop is practicing law and farming in Ap-
pomattox County. His home is at Appomattox Court
House.

R. GLENN Craic, after leaving Washington and Lee,
graduated in medicine at Johns-Hopkins and spent five
years there on the hospital staff, after which he spent a
year in Europe visiting the various clinics. He then went
to San Francisco, where he has been for eleven years. He
is assistant professor of gynecology at Stanford, doing
some teaching and practicing gynecology in town.

Henry BLacKForp is a member of the A. M. Law and
Company, Stocks, Bonds, Insurance, Spartanburg, South
Carolina. He says: “There is no special news with my
family—except that I am busy trying to educate the
younger generation and keep out of their way—but with
a daughter 18 and two boys 16 and 14, it keeps me pretty
much on the jump.”

1918

Paut H. Jones is vice-president of Geo. B. Peck, Inc.,
Kansas City, Missouri. He is married and has two sons,
one thirteen years of age and one four.

Futon Hocs is a member of the law firm of Wil-
liamson, Hoge and Judson, Title Insurance Building, 433
South Spring Street, Los Angeles, California. He reports
the birth of a son who was eight months old in June.

1919

Gites S. Trrry is practicing medicine in Scarsdale,
New York, with offices in Eaton Hall Apartment.

Sam BAKER is district manager of the Sharon Steel
Corporation at Sharon, Pennsylvania.

S. M. Evans lives at Shreveport, Louisiana. He has
one son nine years old and another son born September

14, 1938.

1920

RussELL G. Nessirt is a member of the law firm of
Nesbitt and Nesbitt, 800 Riley Law Building, Wheeling,
West Virginia.

Sipney S. McKinney worked in a Wall Street bank
for more than a year after leaving Washington and Lee
in 1920, then entered the Harvard Law School. He is
county attorney for Trigg County, Cadiz, Kentucky.

Harry P. Burns has been in the silk business since
1920. He is now southern representative for Belding
Hemingway Conicelli Company. He still calls Commerce,
Georgia, his home, and is still unmarried.

James P. H11t is practicing law in Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, with offices in the Atlantic National Bank Building.

WILLIAM E. JoHNSTON is assistant sales manager of
the American Sugar Refining Company. He married
Freida Atwood in 1923 and they have two children, Billy,
age 13, and Rosalie, age 9. They live in Tenafly, New Jer-
sey, at 27 Stonehurst Drive.

J. WALLER CALLISON is located in Staunton, Virginia,
in the general insurance business. For the past two years
he has extended his operations to cover most of the states
of Virginia and West Virginia in the mortgage loan busi-
ness. His father and associates continue the real estate
and insurance business in Staunton.

1921

ToRRENCE WoOLrForD is connected with the Veterans
Bureau, Washington, D. C. He lives at 6311 Georgia
Street, Chevy Chase, Maryland.

Puitip KoneEn has been commonwealth’s attorney of
Botetourt County, Virginia, for fifteen years. He is mar-
ried and has a little girl aged seven. His home is in Buc-
hanan, Virginia.

Roy GriMLEy is practicing law in Ridgewood, New
Jersey, with offices at 7 North Broad Street. He has a
son eleven years old—Washington and Lee, 1949.

W. C. KENNEY is connected with the Liberty Life In-
surance Company as manager of the branch office in
Aiken, South Carolina, which position he has held for the
past nine years. He has four children, two boys and two
girls.

Homer HENDERSON is trust officer in the Second Na-
tional Bank, Houston, Texas.

Wm. A. Grpzons is assistant secretary-treasurer of
the Liberty Trust Company, Roanoke, Virginia.

BILL RusHTon is still in the ice and coal business in
Birmingham, Alabama.

[28]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1922

GEORGE TALIAFERRO is district manager of the Jeffer-
son Standard Life Insurance Company, 77 North Main
Street, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

BENJAMIN JAMES BroACH is with the Cairo, Egypt,
branch of the American Foreign Insurance Association.
Before proceeding to Egypt he was married in 1937 to
Miss Marie Shepperd of Lebanon, Indiana. Since that
time he has made his home in Cairo. His present work is
the management of the business of the American Foreign
Insurance Association in Egypt and Greece. His address
is Cairo Branch Office, Bachler Street 7
Number 2, P. O. Box 2022, Cairo,

Egypt.

Jor PATTON says the only thing that
has happened to him lately is that the ,“a(/&s
World’s Fair has moved into his back “¥
yard. He lives at 204 Burns Street, For-
est Hills, New York. (

Guy CampBELt is with the Motor _
Supply Company, Monroe, Louisiana.

Anpby AMICK is practicing medicine
in Charleston, West Virginia, with offices
in The Medical Arts Building. He is a
specialist in the diseases of infants and children.

1923

O. Forrest McGILt is manager of the Florida branch
of the Prudential Insurance Company of America, 608-
620 Marble Arcade, Lakeland, Florida. He says:
“Through THE ALUMNI MaGaziINnE I would like to ex-
tend an invitation to Washington and Lee men, particu-
larly of the class of 1923, to visit me here in Lakeland
when they are in Florida.”

Harry LONGSHORE lives in Union City, Tennessee.

“STUDENT” FREW is with the United States Rubber
Company, Winnsboro Mills, Winnsboro, South Carolina.
He has moved up from director of community activities
to employee relations manager. He has a wife and two
girls, aged seven and ten.

MAuvrIcE CROCKER is secretary to Judge Buchelle of
the Circuit Court of Kanawha County. He is the proud
father of a daughter, born April 20.

1924

Louris H. Towsks is engaged in the real estate busi-
ness in Washington, D. C., and is now connected with the

 

Cafritz Company, realtors. His address is 1419 Varnum

Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Curis A. EBERLING, JR., is with the United States Fi-
delity and Guaranty Company, 1415 K Street, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

MELVIN LOVELACE is commonwealth’s attorney for
the City of Suffolk, Virginia, chairman of the local Red
Cross Chapter, member of the Boy Scout Council, on the
board of directors of the Chamber of Commerce, and
president of the Lions’ Club, besides being superintendent
of the West End Baptist Sunday School and on the board
of deacons and finance committee of his
church. He practices law in his spare
time. He is married and has a daughter
six years old.

Orts Howe is still with the Howe
Lumber Company at Wabash, Arkansas.
He is attending to the farming end of
the business. He is married and has two
sons, nine and five years old. Their
father and three uncles are Washington
and Lee men, and they expect to attend
Washington and Lee.

1925

MurrEL KLEIN is a member of the
law firm of Klein and Appel, Insurance Underwriters and
Engineers, Starks Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

WiL.iAM L, WooLFoLk is an eye, ear, nose and throat
specialist in Owensboro, Kentucky. He is married and
has two children: a girl two and a half years old, and a
boy, William L. Woolfolk, Jr., born April 10, 1939.

JOHN STRAHORN, JR., is teaching in the University of
Maryland Law School. He was in Lexington in the spring
giving some advice and information on starting the Law
Review at Washington and Lee. He has been in charge of
the Law Review at the University of Maryland since it
was started there three years ago.

GrorGE WILSON, JR., and his brother, Wittiam L.
Witson, 1935, are practicing law in Owensboro, Ken-
tucky.

Dimitri GEorGE ErIstTorF is practicing law in New
York. His address is 177 Montague Street.

1926

Bastt WATKINS is practicing law in Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Peoples National Bank Building.

CuHarLes W. Lowry is a professor in the Virginia
Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Virginia. He says:

[29]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“My news is two-fold and constitutes a paradox. A sec-
ond son (third child) was born to Mrs. Lowry and me on
March 20—Arthur Clark, by name. This puts me rather
on the side of the Patriarchs. But by way of balance I
have been elected a delegate as well as a discussion leader
at the World Conference of Christian Youth which will
be held in Amsterdam in July.”

Rosert O. BENTLEY, JR., is a counsellor-at-law, Peo-
ples Trust Building, Hackensack, New Jersey.

Rurus Mappvux graduated from the Harvard Univer-
sity School of Business Administration. He is now man-
aging director of the New Jersey Council, with offices in
the State House, Trenton, New Jersey. He married Anne
H. Fairbanks of Bangor, Maine, in 1929. Has a daughter,
Polly Ann, aged eight.

BurKE WILLIAMSON is a member of the law firm of
Adams, Nelson and Williamson, 39 South LaSalle Street,
Chicago, Illinois.

1927

RuHEA WHITLEY is practicing law in the Southern
Building, Washington, D. C. He was appointed special at-
_torney to the Dies Commission in the spring.

JoHN STRICKLER is practicing law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the State and City Bank Building.
He is president of the Roanoke Bar Association. He is
married and has a son eleven years old.

KENNETH DurRHAM is vice-president of the Daven-
port Hosiery Mills, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee.

W. E. Gace, Jr. is with W. A. Gage and Company,
Cotton Factors, Memphis, Tennessee. His address is 711
Falls Building.

1928

R. W. (Buck) JorpAn, Jr., is title officer with the
Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation, Richmond, Va.

OLDHAM CLARKE is a member of the law firm of Allen
and Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Building, Louisville,
Kentucky.

RALPH WICKERSHAM is superintendent of West Flor-
ida Naval Stores Company, Pensacola, Florida, a position
he has held for ten years. He is married and has two chil-
dren. He is tenor soloist in the choir of the Gadsden Street
Methodist Church.

J. B. Cowen, Jr., is the minister of the First Presby-
terian Church, Virginia Beach, Virginia. He is a member
of the Virginia Council of Religious Education and a
member of the board of managers of the Cooperative
Education Association.

CHarLes E. BRAHHAM is national advertising man-
ager of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Richmond, Va.

1929

Put BECKER is a member of the law firm of Coolidge
and Becker, Twelfth Floor Callahan Building, Dayton,
Ohio.

ALLEN Morcan is vice-president of the First National
Bank of Memphis, Tennessee.

WILLIAM Birt HarriIncton’s address is P. O. Box
2776, Manila, Philippine Islands.

CHARLIE MERCKE is with the Jefferson Wood Work-
ing Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

FRANK -PARKER is with the Rose Cliff Company,
Waynesboro, Virginia.

Bitty HinvTon has been teaching at Washington and
Lee since graduation. He was appointed assistant profes-
sor of Psychology in 1937 and received his doctorate from
Ohio State in the same year.

1930

Epprk GRAVES is a member of the law firm of Baldwin
and Graves, 309 Law Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Dr. Murret H. Kaptan, 307 Physicians and Sur-
geons Building, New Orleans, Louisiana, was married
last November to Louise May Goldman.

Grorcr B. Crappock is resident in medicine, Medical
College of Virginia, Hospital Division, Richmond, Va.

Jim Hess is in the manufacturing department of the
Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation, Niagara
Works. His address is 626 Ferry Avenue, Niagara Falls,
New York. His company is a subsidiary of the Union
Carbide and Carbon Corporation of New York City.

Davip Moreron says he is still saw-milling and sin-
gle, with no prospects. His address is Quentin, Franklin
County, Mississippi.

LEONARD Davis is practicing law under the firm name
of White, Guy and Davis, Citizens Bank Building, Nor-
folk, Virginia.

FRANK SHIPMAN is a member of the firm of Ship-
man and Shipman, Peoples Building and Savings Build-
ing, Troy, Ohio.

~ 1931

GitmorE Nunn is president and general manager of

WLAP, “The Voice of the Bluegrass,” Lexington, Ken-

tucky. He is married and has two children, Betsy Town-
send, age six, and Peggy Morrow, age fifteen months.

[30]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

He was re-elected president of Lexington’s Board of
Trade for 1939, purchased Radio Station WCMTI in Ash-
land, Kentucky (subject to FCC approval) and was, when
writing in April, in the throes of opening a new station in
Amarillo, Texas (KFDA). He has a few thoroughbreds
and plays some polo.

Joun O. McNEEt graduated from the University of
Virginia Medical School with the degree of M.D. in
June, 1935.

DEVEREUX HANSON has been in the stock and bond
business since 1929 and is at present employed by J. S.
Bache and Company in their Schenec-
tady office. Has a summer camp at
Blecker, New York, which he makes
headquarters every spare moment. He is
still single and enjoying life thoroughly.

JoHNNY FAULKNER is still a state

policeman and has just been transferred aX
to the Criminal Investigation Bureau.

JimmigE MartTIN is practicing law
in Gloucester, Virginia, under the firm
name of Dehart and Martin.

WALTER WILLIAMS is an eye, e€ar,
nose and throat specialist, Suits 409-411,
Camayo Arcade, Ashland, Kentucky.

Sam KeEsster received his LL.B. de-
gree from the University of Florida in 1933 and is asso-
ciated in the practice of law with Philip C. Gorman, Cro-
gor Building, Leesburg, Florida. He was married in 1936.

Ben Ayars is with the Farm Credit Administration
of Columbia, Columbia, South Carolina.

Crrrr McMILLAN is president of the Busy Bee Candy
Company, 417 North Seventh Street, St. Louis, Missouri.
He has a son, C. H., III.

1932

GrorcE A. (ALGy) SPEER is practicing law in San-
ford, Florida. He is married and has two children, a boy
and a girl.

Rosert L. McBribk is still engaged in the practice of
law in the Hillsboro Bank Building, Hillsboro, Ohio.

LericHton McKinney, still in the insurance business
in Denison, Texas, gives reports on Charley Long and Ed
Nesbit of Dallas. Leighton has his own agency at 301%
West Woodard Street, Denison. Charley and Ed both are
lawyers.

SoLLACE FREEMAN writes of his doings since 1932.
He has been in the insurance business since 1935 and at

  
 

= Ye SS
——— 3 travel in moderation but my distinct avo-
cation was the study of and writing about
American pictures. So when my partial blindness forced
me to retire I had something to keep me busy.”

present is with the Young-Mann Agency in Gainesville,
Florida. He married in April, 1938. Brother Jim is a
doctor in Fernadina, Florida.

SHERWOOD WIsE is doing well as an attorney with
Wells, Wells and Lipscomb, Lamar Life Building, Jack-
son, Mississippi.

Joun Hitt Morcan, honorary member of the law
class of 1932, writes a most interesting letter from his
home, Mill Streams, Farmington, Connecticut. He says:
“For an average age of thirty, as a class the men seem to
be doing very well. It took me four or five years after be-
ing admitted to the bar before the results
of my law studies began to count and it
was about twenty years before the re-
turns from my work seemed adequate.
Of course I was so fortunate as to come
to a lawyer’s best years; i. e. forty to
sixty, just at the time when work was
plentiful and highly paid. Things are
very different today and from my point
of view will be for a long time to come.
Fortunately, also, I had always had a
hobby and this took the line of the study
of pictures. This does not mean that I
-., did not play golf, play bridge, shoot and

ala,

1933

SHELBY BLATTERMAN is livestock farming at Mays
Lick, Kentucky.

Bos Kap.Lan, who is president and manager of Inter-
state Stores, Owensboro, Kentucky, says he is doing a fine
business and is more than satisfied with progress.

EBEN JACKSON lives at 20 Poplar Street, Danvers,
Massachusetts. Says he is very happy, healthy, single and
not too prosperous.

CHARLIE SUTER is assistant general agent for the
Berkshire Life Insurance Company. His home is in Ar-
lington, Virginia. He is married and has a daughter who
was eleven months old last May.

Henry Foort is in the lumber business in Alexandria,
Louisiana.

PEELE RIvERs is secretary and treasurer of the Louis-
ville, Kentucky, local alumni chapter. He keeps up his
swimming and is bettering the times he made in school.
He is still unmarried and plugging away, trying to get a

[31]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

toe-hold in the life insurance business. He is with the
Equitable Life.

1934

TAYLoR JONEs is associated with the law firm of
Rogers and Towers, Consolidated Building, Jacksonville,
Florida.

Rosert BAILEy is prosecuting attorney of Wyoming
County, Pinesville, West Virginia. His firm is Bailey and
Shannon. Wyoming County has large deposits of coal
which have heretofore been only slightly developed. One
of the operations going on in Wyoming County is owned
by the Koppers Coal Company of Pittsburgh. The moun-
tain in which they are operating has about five different
seams of coal, and the one they started to work on first
has 80,000,000 tons of coal in it.

Rosert Rutu has been a newspaper man with the
Cleveland News, Cleveland, Ohio, for the past three years.
Since graduation he has worked for the Cincinnati Post,
United Press in Paris, and spent a short time working
in Washington, D. C., before going to Cleveland. His ad-
dress is care of Cleveland News, Cleveland, Ohio.

Rucr DEVAN, Jr., is president and treasurer of De-
Van and Company, Insurance, Union Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

Everett FIsHEr is associated with the law firm of
Frantz, McConnell and Seymour, Knoxville, Tennessee.

1935

WINNIE Brown’s address is 1805 Fairfield Avenue,
Shreveport, Louisiana.

J. Howett Gover is practicing law in Union City,
Tennessee.

BILL SCHUHLE is teaching in the E. C. Glass High
School, Lynchburg, Virginia. His winter address is 1107
Wise Street, Lynchburg, Virginia. His home is in Pla-
quemine, Louisiana.

Ep CHAPPELL lives in Waynesboro, Virginia.

ANDERSON BrowNeE has bought the Gilroy Publishing
Company, publishers of the Gilroy Evening Dispatch, the
Gilroy Advocate and the Gilroy Shopping Guide, at Gil-
roy, California.

1936

Ancus PowELt is with David M. Lea and Company,
Inc., Richmond, Virginia.

Paut Hervey is teaching English in the Mabank,
Texas, High School. He has spent two summers at the
University of Texas and has completed all the work for
his M.A. degree except writing the thesis. He hoped to

get this off the past summer. His home address is Route 1,
Brookston, Texas.

Harry L&E Rospertson has been with the Virginia
State Police about three years. He is stationed at Freder-
icksburg, Virginia, and is working U. S. Route No. 1,
north. He married Katherine Burgess of Chesterfield
County.

1937

I. M. (Scorry) Scorr is with the Lee I. Robinson
Hosiery Mills, Twenty-third Street and Alleghany Ave-
nue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Amos BoLEN is associated with the law firm of Fitz-
patrick, Brown and Davis, Huntington National Bank
Building, Huntington, West Virginia.

Bos PEEK, Jr., is selling flour in Arkansas for Peek
Brothers, Wallace Building, Little Rock, Arkansas.

A. Newton Rossins, JR., is in the buying office of
Montgomery Ward and Company. His address is 548
West 142nd Street, New York City.

Jim Moopy has his law degree and is opening an office
for the practice of law in Plant City, Florida.

Lewis E. Mancus has completed his second year in
the Medical School at the University of Virginia.

1938

BiLLy WILSON is practicing law in Cumberland, Md.

Cyrus V. ANpDERSON has been admitted to the practice
of law before the Minnesota State Supreme Court, the
Federal District Court for the District of Minnesota, and
the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals. He has also received
a position as special attorney in the Antitrust Division of
the Department of Justice. His address is Room 1410,
Department of Justice Building, Washington, D. C.

1939

AnprEW M. EAstwIck, Jr., is in business for him-
self, operating under the firm name of Maryland Valve
and Faucet Company, distributors for Belco Velvet Seals,
a specialty article manufactured in Detroit. He is also
handling the complete unit and says “it looks as though I
were in the wholesale plumbing business.” His address is
1905 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Maryland.

1940

Aupsrey L,. Srmpson, JR., is with his father’s building
supply firm and has recently been promoted to a junior
partnership. He expects to be permanently connected with
this company. His address is P. O. Box 1672, Charlotte,
North Carolina.

[32]

A

 

in eal Mi i i i Me ee me, ee i a ee, me, ee, gi, me Oi i i a i il i i eg, a ee ee me a ee, On

&,

:

- a . ee

LL —=

ats Wie a srt . “ an
4S gyi Wile iT Pe) z

 

Washington and Lee Wedgwood Plates

ORDER FORM

D OPN Oe ooo cece ck cde for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates
at $1.50 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped charges colleét from
Boston, Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of Eight plates [ ] (or else check desired views below)

Center Views

1. Washington College.................... Py 5. Carmegie LAabrary .......<cscsussisecsea Se
eee A SRNR nah thas havedduilorssa-cbsasaantes ha 6. Doremus Gymnasium ................ ee
3. Lee-Jackson Home.................:+4. eS ERE ROAEL cocjancucividechibibegpidenartes ee
RATER WU MIM ikon dsccicssossesinsssoteses Pi 8. Washington College, 1857.......... Pr
Check color choice: { | Blue [ | Green [ | Mulberry
Ship plates to:
Ra SRG ASienksa hd cnss sapcnoh coupes cuhphe ausvacseodsbanpeckstndcessivodel digsnalavohates Nika OPI
RRR ash habicarcti ache eg » naleisk cen vipbesyus cagnthundaancanpiber’ MNO sedsctaoupsk goby wekbodio nian plas eeteas

SEER EERE EEE EEE HEHEHE HEHEHE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

ctl lt.illtilltzzilltszilltszilltillltuzillturiilltur.illltilltturitlltaritllterillturitltaritlhtr.ithttr.ithht..ihhttrihhtter..itt.ithhttr..ithtter..ihhtter.ilhtt..ithhtr..ihhttwr.ihhtr..ithtt.ihhtithtta.iiletr.htterithhtr.hetihhtrilltturithtr...ilhttur.iilltrr.iillrr.illttrriilltrrilltrritlitrs..iilitar.ill.itliuus.il,.lll,.l lm lm il il ll ll ga ga a a ee ee ye ee ey

ll i a i a lll lll lll lll ll lll lll ll ln ln ln tll ln ln ln le lin lim thin dle then dm dim din din dir die dim ie i diy de dy i in tn tp bp bp bh bhbbhbhbphbp+hp+hbapbababhbaahananan en ww

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tera ae Oe r > ~ peas

HOMECOMING

Lexington’s BIGGEST Week-end

Friday, November 10, 1939

You Are Urged to Attend

Your Friends Will Be Here! Will You?

 

 

 

 

 

 

