 

te Alumni Magazine

of Washington and Lee Universit

 

   

Sa TT

i @aoreturee eo Ta -5 -

January 1935

Vol. X—No. 3 > AG | $2.50 a year

WY 4 mae si & ' : > ~ _-

LEXINGTGN, vA

 

 

 

 

 

Do You Like Your
Alumni Magazine?

¢

We're not fishing for compliments (but if
you have any, we’re receptive). The question
is asked because we want to increase the cir-
culation of The cAlumni Magazine, and we
believe you as a subscriber can help us.

Show this copy to another alumnus, one
who perhaps does not invest in news of his
university and fellow alumni. Ask him how he
likes it, and point out that the subscription
price is pretty low.

We are honestly trying to make this the
best alumni magazine published in the United
States; trying to make it the best in content
and typography.

Therefore we naturally want the maga-
zine to reach as many alumni as possible.

You can help.

Get a New Subscriber to The Alumni Magazine!

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Hagan Minnick, 318 Park Street, Bristol,
Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
Leighton McKinney, 1100 Prospect Ave., Little
Rock.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphries, Healey Building.

Baltimore, Maryland
Jim Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank Building.

Charleston, West Virginia
Cc. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chicago
Ruben A. Lewis, Jr., Continental Illinois
National Bank.

Cincinnati
Rojer J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. MeCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla,

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
Arthur Tabb, 2411 Randall Avenue.

Memphis, Tennessee
John K. Speed, 1159 Linden Avenue.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.

Northern Louisiana Association
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N.*C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Richmond, Virginia

Otto Stumpf, Mutual Building.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, U. C. L. A., Los Angeles.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association
J. J. Fitechett, Union Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia.
Washington, D. C.

Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Building.

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

 

Vol. X JANUARY 1935

No. 3

 

PAB sess ia, Harry K. (“Cy”) Younc, 1917
Managing Editor..RicHARD PowELt Carrer, 1929

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

FIRE. 632 Dr. J. W. Craupy, 1909
Vice-President................ HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930
Secretary............ Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
EHPOSUEET 555k oS M. W. Paxron, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. PowEtt, 1929
Epwarp W. Leer, 1913
H. Sr.G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
Water A. MacDonatp, 1910

 

Contents for January 1935

Twenty-One Washington and Lee Governors...................
Fite eee Bet Pee eS
Story-Hawk: An Impression of Brian Bell......................

TOG Deters sme ee

ical Alumni Association Notes ...........6.. 2
Class: “Fen e BOSS 2s Se a
Eine CS I oc sc See ee.

Tine 10 te eee Be ....... 2s... cee

Class Noetees 6. ee oo 76 ee ole

Pa

PAGE

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Twenty-one Washington and Lee Governors

By F. JAmMEs Barnes, II
Assistant Professor of Political Science at Washington and Lee

ments of sons of Washington and Lee bears the
names of twenty-one then who were partially or wholly
trained at the university, who became governors of
thirteen states. Two of the twenty—Governor Peery
of Virginia and Governor Laffoon of Kentucky—hold
office at the present time.
During the 148 years which have intervened since
George Mathews was first called to the governorship
of the infant state of Georgia,

Spe SCROLL upon which is inscribed the achieve-

minion. Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, and ‘Tenn-
essee have each chosen two alumni, and one alumnus
has been honored with the highest office in the gift of
the electorate of the states of Georgia, Louisiana, Flor-
ida, Missouri, Oregon, South Carolina, Colorado, and
West Virginia.

A brief resume of the careers of these illustrious
sons of Washington and Lee follows in the order in
which they served their states:

 

slightly less than half have
seen some one of the states
without a Washington and
lee governor. On seven oc-
casionS in that period of
time there have been two
Washington and Lee gover-
nors in office at the same time.
The year 1840 found Alexan-
der G. McNutt serving as chief
executive of Mississippi while
John Pope Duval was gover-
nor of Florida.

William Alexander Mac-
Corkle was governor of West
Virginia and Charles T. O’Fer-

The Alumni Magazine proudly presents the
following article by Mr. Barnes, the first of
a series he will contribute on Washington
and Lee men who have become famous in
public life. This study of “Washington and
Lee Governors” represents more than a year
of research and is as complele as possible.
The author, however, will welcome com-
ment and possible additional information
concerning the men discussed here or any
who may have been omitted. Attention 1s
called to a note at the end of the article, ex-
plaining some of the dates of the early grad-
uates of Liberty Hali and Washington College.

GEORGE MATHEWS

Governor of Georgia
Liberty Hall, 1749-1782

George Mathews, third
governor of Georgia (1787
and 1794-1795), was born in
Augusta county, Virginia, in
1739. He distinguished him-
self as an Indian fighter and
was a captain at the battle, in
1774, at the junction of the
Ohio and Kenawha rivers. In
1775 he became colonel of the
ninth Virginia regiment, and
fought under Washington at
Brandywine and Germantown,

 

 

ral governor of Virginia dur-
ing the years 1894 to 1897, and while O’Ferral still held
the governorship of Virginia, Lawrence V. Stephens be-
came governor of Missouri. From 1903 through 1907
the widely separated states of Oregon and South Caro-
lina were presided over by Washington and Lee men—
Oregon by Governor George E. Chamberlin, and South
Carolina by Governor Duncan C. Heyward. From 1917
through 1919 George Washington Hays and Julius C.
Gunter were governors of Arkansas and Colorado re-
spectively. The year 1923 found Thomas C. McRae
serving as governor of Arkansas and Austin Peay
serving Tennessee in like capacity. And since 1933 Gov-
ernor Ruby Laffoon of Kentucky, and Governor George
C. Perry of Virginia have been guiding the destinies
of their states.

Virginia has turned most frequently to Lexington
for her chief executives, having elected five Washing-
ton and Lee men to the governorship of the Old Do-

|

3

 

where he was captured. He
was under General Greene as Colonel of the third Vir-
ginia regiment when the war closed. He removed to Goose
Pond on Broad river, Oglethorpe county, Georgia, in
1785, and was elected in 1786, in one year, Governor of
Georgia and representative in Congress, and re-elected
governor in 1794 and 1795. During his last term the cel-
ebrated “Yazoo Act’? was passed, which he approved,
and while he undoubtedly acted from honest motives in
signing it, his political death was its result. President
Adams nominated him to the Senate for Governor of
the Mississippi territory, but withdrew the appointment
on account of the unpopularity of the “Yazoo Act.”
Governor Mathews became incensed at the withdrawal
and went on to Washington to chastize the president,
but the latter satisfied him, and promised to appoint his
son supervisor of public revenue in Georgia.
In 1811 President Madison appointed Mathews

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Commissioner of the United States to negotiate for the
annexation of Florida, but the president disavowed the
treaty, and Mathews was so indignant that he is said
to have started to Washington to subject Mr. Madison
to personal chastisement.

Governor Mathews admitted no superior but George
Washington, and declared that his services to the coun-
try were only surpassed by that great chief. He wore
a three-cornered cocked hat, flair-top boots, a shirt full
ruffed in front and at the wrists, and occasionally a
long sword at his side. Governor Mathews was one of
the picturesque characters of Georgia’s early times. He
died in Augusta, Georgia, August 30, 1812.’

ARCHIBALD ROANE, Governor of Tennessee
Liberty Hall, 1782-1789

Little information is available on the private life of
Archibald Roane, but the directory of alumni and of-
ficers of Washington and Lee, 1888, says that he was
professor of language and mathematics at Liberty Hall
Academy, entering that office in 1784. Records do not
show in what year he vacated that position. The direc-
tory lists him as having an A. B. degree, being con-
nected with Liberty Hall in the period 1782-1789, while
other sources indicate he was educated in Lancaster
county, Pennsylvania, but do not record that he receiv-
ed his degree there. The inference is that he studied as
well as taught at Liberty Hall.

Roane, second Governor of Tennessee (1801-1803),
was born at Derry township, Lancaster (now Dauphin)
county, Pennsylvania, in 1760. He attended school at
Lancaster but left to enter the Continental army, and
was present at the surrender of Cornwallis. Aiter a
period in Lexington he then studied law and removed
to Tennessee, where he was admitted to the bar. He
was soon appointed district attorney-general, and in
1795 was named judge of the Supreme Court of Tenn-
essee. He was elected governor of the state in 1801,
and served until September 23, 1803, when he desired
re-election, but was defeated by John Sevier.

Governor Roane held other important offices dur-
ing his life. He was a teacher and gave instruction to
Hugh L. White, who was afterwards a candidate for
president of the United States. Governor Roane was
appointed circuit judge in 1811.

He was a warm friend of Andrew Jackson, whom
he appointed major-general of the Tennessee Militia
while he was Governor of Tennessee. He died at his
home near Campbell's station in January, 1817, and
was buried in Pleasant Forest churchyard, near his
home.

In Roane’s honor, Tennessee gave one of its coun-
ties his name.?
\

Meriwetrner Lewis, Governor Louisiana Territory

Liberty Hall, 1789-1800

Lewis was born August 18, 1774, in Albemarle
county, Virginia, but when ten years old his family
moved to Georgia. At the age of 13 he returned to Vir-
ginia to study under the Rev. Matthew Maury at Lib-
erty Hall Academy. Lewis was 20 when the president
called for troops to put down the “whiskey rebellion.”
On duty at Fort Pickering in 1797 he learned “all about
the Indians.” Later he was ordered to Detroit, and
while there Jefferson offered him a post as private sec-
retary. He accepted the offer.

On January 18, 1803, Jefferson asked congress for
an appropriation to explore the West; this was grant-
ed and Lewis was chosen for the trip. He selected Wil-
liam Clark as his companion. After returning from the
expedition in 1806, Lewis resigned from the army and
Jefferson appointed him governor of Louisiana Terri-
tory. He died October 11, 1809.8

ALEXANDER G. McNutt, Governor of Mississippi
Washington College

McNutt was born in Rockbridge county, Virginia,
Sepembetr 12, 1801, and was educated at Washington
College. He emigrated to Mississippi in 1828 and settled
in Vicksburg to practice law, and soon established a

ALEXANDER G. McNutt, Governor of Mississippi
reputation as a political speaker. He was in the Miss-
issippi legislature for several years, speaker of the sen-
ate in 1837 and governor the next year.

During his legislative career McNutt secured the
right of representation to the counties that were formed
out of the Chickasaw and Choctaw cessions. McNutt
accumulated a large fortune from his law practice. He
was a Democrat and yielded in debate to few. He died
in DeSota county, Mississippi, on October 22, 1848.‘

Joun Pork Duvat, Acting Governor of Florida
Washington College

3orn in Richmond, Virginia, on June 3, 1790, Du-
val was educated at Washington College and at Wil-
liam and Mary. He studied in Richmond and was ad-
mitted to the bar in 1811. He became First Lieutenant
in the 20th United States Infantry April, 1812, and
served on the Canadian frontier. Later he was pro-
moted to captain.

Duval moved to Florida in 1827 and obtained a

Ly#:.]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

vood law practice, but due to bad health he moved, in
1837. to Bardstown, Kentucky, where he took an active
part in organizing volunteer forces during the war be-

tween ‘Texas and Mexico. He returned to Florida as_

secretary of the territory and gained a high reputation
there as a lawyer and was commissioned by Governor
Call to make a “digest of the laws of Florida” in 1840.
He later was acting governor of the state. After the
admission of Florida to
the Union he was a prom-
inent Democrat, but was
a firm Unionist during the
secessionist agitation of
1851-1852. He died at Tal-
lahassie, Florida, Decem-
ber 7, 1854.°

James McDowELt,
Governor of Virginia
Washington College

McDowell was born in
Rockbridge county, Vir-
ginia, on October 13, 1795.
He was educated in pri-
vate schools and attended
Washington College for
one year and in 1813 was
sent to Yale. After a year
at Yale he entered the Col-
lege of New Jersey and
graduated in 1816.

In 1818 McDowell
moved to Kentucky to
farm and practice law. He
soon abandoned both, re-
turning to Virginia to lo-
cate at “Col Alto,” an es-

tate just east of Lexing-
ton. In 1830 he entered

the Virginia legislature,
and won great prestige for
his speech on the slavery
question. In 1832 McDowell was defeated for United
States senator. He was strongly opposed to the doctrine
of nullification. He was defeated in 1838 for re-election
to the legislature, but in 1842 was elected governor and
served for the three-year term beginning January 1,
1843. His brother-in-law, William Taylor, died shortly
after his term, and McDowell was elected in his place
as representative to the Twenty-ninth Congress—serv-
ed from 1846-51. McDowell was the first Governor of
Virginia to bar wine at an official entertainment.

 

Governor John Letcher, Virginia

5

He died at his home near Lexington on August
24; 1851.°

Joun J. Crirrenvon, Governor of Kentucky
Washington College

Born near Versailles, Woodford county, Kentucky,
on September 10, 1787, Crittendon attended Pisgah
Academy, Woodford county, Kentucky; attended
Washington College and
was graduated from the
College of William and
Mary in 1806. He was at-
torney-general of Illinois
Territory in 1809-1810;
served in the War of 1812
as aide to Governor Shel-
by, and resumed law prac-
tice in Russelville, Ky.

Later Crittendon  be-
came a member of the
state house of representa-
tives from 1811-1817, and
served as speaker the last
term. He was elected to
the United States Senate
and served from March
4, 1817, to March 3, 1819,
when he resigned and
moved to Frankfort, Ken-
tucky. Again he was nam-
ed a member of the state
house of representatives,
in 1825, and 1829-1832.
He was appointed United
States district attorney in
1827, but was removed by
President Jackson in 1829.

Again Crittendon was
the United
States Senate and served
from March 4, 1835, to
March 3, 1841. He was
appointed attorney general of the United States by

elected to

President Harrison and served from March 5 to Sep-
tember 13, 1841; was appointed and subsequently elect-
ed to the United States Senate to fill the vacancy caused
by the resignation of Henry Clay, and served from
March 31, 1842, to June 12, 1848, when he resigned.
Kentucky elected him governor in 1848 and he
served until July 31, 1850, when he resigned, again to
be appointed attorney general, this time by President
Fillmore. This post he held from July 22, 1850, to

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

March 7, 1853. He was elected again to the United
States Senate and served from March 4, 1855, to
March 3, 1861; elected as a Unionist to the thirty-sev-
enth Congress (March 4, 1861-March 3, 1863), and
was a candidate for re-election at the time of his death.

Crittenden died in Frankfort, Kentucky, on July
26, 1863, and was buried in the state cemetery, Frank-
fort, Kentucky.?

H. S. Foore,
Governor of Mississippi
Washington College

Foote, born in Faquier
county, Virginia, February
28, 1804, was graduated
from Washington College
in 1819. He studied law and
was admitted to the bar in
1823 and began practice in
Tuscumbia, Alabama, in
1825, but moved to Miss-
issippi in 1820 and practic-
ed in Jackson, Natchez,
Vicksburg and Raymond.
He was presidential elector
on the Democratic ticket of
Polk and Dallas in 1844;
was elected as a Unionist
to the United States Sen-
ate and served from March
4, 1847, until January 8,
1852, when he resigned to
become governor.

Foote was Governor of
Mississippi, 1852-1854, and
while serving in that capac-
ity was an unsuccessful candidate for United States
Senator, lacking but one vote necessary for elec-
tion. He moved to California in 1854 and was an un-
successful candidate of the Reform party for election
to the United States Senate in 1865, again lacking but
one vote necessary for election. returned to
Vicksburg, Mississippi, in 1858. He was a member of
the Southern Convention held at Knoxville in 1859. He
and settled near Nashville and was

Foote

moved to Tennessee
elected to the first and second Confederate congresses.
He afterwards moved to Washington, D. C., to practice
law. He supported the Republican presidential ticket of
Hayes and Wheeler in 1876; was appointed by Pres-
ident Haves as superintendent of the mint at New Or-
leans and served from December 18, 1878, until his
death at Nashville, Tennessee, May 19, 1880.5

 

Governor George C. Peery, Virginia

0

Joun Letcuer, Governor of Virginia
Washington College

Letcher, born March 29, 1813, at Lexington, Vir-
ginia, attended Washington College, graduating in 1833,
and subsequently studied law. In 1839 he began to
practice in Lexington and in the same year became
editor of The Valley Star,
a Democratic paper pub-
lished to aid the cause of
Jacksonian Democracy.
From 1840 to 1844 Letcher
concentrated on his law
practice and _ politics, but
from 1844 to 1850 he again
was with the paper. In 1848
he was a Democratic elec-
tor; member of the state
constitutional convention in
1850-1851; and represented
the eleventh Virginia dis-
trict in congress from 1851
to 1859.

In 1859

nominated by the

Letcher was
Demo-
cratic party for governor
and was elected by a small
majority. Letcher opposed
Virginia’s secession until
Lincoln called for troops.
He was imprisoned for sev-
eral months after the war
in “Old Capital Prison” in
Washington.

After the war Letcher
resumed his law practice in
lexington and served two terms in the House of Del-
egates, 1875-1876 and 1876-1877. He died in Lexing-
ton on January 26, 1884.°

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MacCork te,
Governor of West Virginia
Washington and Lee

sorn in Lexington, Virginia, May 7, 1857, Mac-
Corkle was graduated from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1879 with the degree of B.L. He was sub-
sequently awarded the LL.D. by Washington and Lee
in 1907, LL.D. by the University of West Virginia in
1893, and the D.C.L. by the same institution in 1819.

Admitted to the bar in 1878, he practiced at Charles-
ton, a member of the firm of Chilton, MacCorkle, and

 

ka np ee) a

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Chilton. He was prosecuting attorney at Charleston
from 1892-1897, Governor of West Virginia, 1892-
97, and a member of the West Virginia Senate from
1910-14.

He spoke and wrote widely on trade and industrial
subjects. Among his better known works are: “Some
Southern Questions,’ “The Monroe Doctrine,” “The
Book of the White Sulph:r.”

Governor MacCorkle was a
member of the Board of Trustees
of Washington and Lee from 1918
to his death September 24, 1930."°

James LAwson KEMPER
Governor of Virginia
Washington College

Kemper was born in Madison
county, Virginia, June 11, 1823,
studied in the schools of his native
county, and was graduated from
Washington College with an M.A.
degree. He then studied law under
George W. Summers of Charles-
ton, and in 1847 was commissioned
by President Polk as cap-
tain in the volunteer ser-
vice of the United States.
Afterward Kemper served
ten vears in the legislature
of Virginia, and was
speaker for two years. He
was for a number of years
chairman of the commit-
tee on military affairs ; and
also served as president of
the board of visitors of
Virginia Military Institute.

On May 2, 1861, the
Virginia secession conven-
tion appointed Kemper colonel of the seventh Virginia
regiment. He was commissioned brigadier-general in
May, 1862, and during the war war in numerous battles,
being desperately wounded while leading his brigade in
the charge at Gettysburg. After the war he resumed his
law practice in Madison county, and in 1873 was elect-
ed governor of Virginia. He served from 1874 to 1878
and after the close of his term-he engaged in farming in
Orange county, Virginia. He died April 7, 1896."

ae

CHarLes TrrppetTr O’FERRALL, Governor of Virginia
Washington College

Born at Brucetown, Frederick county, Virginia,
October 21, 1840, O’Ferrall attended the public schools.

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   

Governor W. A. MacCorkle, West Virginia

He was appointed clerk pro tem of the circuit court
of Morgan county, Virginia, in 1855, and elected
clerk in 1857. He enlisted in the Confederate cavalry
as a private in May, 1861, passed through all the
grades from sergeant to colonel and at the close of
the war was in command of all the Confederate
cavalry in the Shenandoah valley.

He was graduated from the
law department of Washington
College in 1869; was admitted to
the bar and began practice in
Harrisonburg, Virginia. O’Fer-
rall was a member of the state
house of delegates, 1871-1873;
successfully contested as a Dem-
ocrat the election of John Paul
to the forty-eighth congress ; and
was re-elected to the forty-ninth
and to the four succeeding con-
gresses. He served from May 5,
1884, until December 28, 1893,
when he resigned, having been
elected governor of the
state of Virginia for the
term 1894-1898. After his
term expired he resumed
the practice of law and
also engaged in writing
reminiscences of the War
Between the States. He
died in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, September 22, 1905 ;
and was buried in Holly-
wood Cemetery.!”

IAWRENCE V. STEPHENS
Governor of Missouri
Washington and Lee

Born in Boonville,
Missouri, on December 21, 1858, Stephens was a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee University in 1887. He
was editor of the Boonville Advertiser; became book-
keeper, cashier, vice president and director of the Cen-
tral National Bank, Boonville, and was appointed gov-
ernment receiver of the Fifth National Bank, St. Louis.
He became director of the bank of Versailles (Boon-
ville) ; and of the St. Louis and Southern Railroad.

Stephens was a Democrat; state treasurer of Mis-
souri 1899-1897; governor, 1897-1901. He ‘served as
colonel on the staffs of Governors Marmaduke and
Francis; was curator at Central College, Fayette, Mis-
souri; trustee of Barnes Hospital, St. Louis. He died
on December 17, 1923.18

Lea

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

GrocrE EK. CHAMBERLIN, Governor of Oregon
Washington and Lee

Chamberlin was born on a plantation near Natchez,
Adams county, Mississippi, on January 1, 1854, and
was graduated from the “literary and law departments”
of Washington and Lee university in June, 1876. He
moved to Oregon in December, 1876; taught school in
Linn county; was deputy clerk of Linn county from
1877-1879, when he resigned; and was admitted to the
bar in 1879 and commenced the practice of law in Al-
pany, Linn county, Oregon.

Chamberlin became a member of the state house
of representatives 1880-1882; district attorney for the
third judicial district 1884-1886; was appointed and
subsequently elected attorney. general of Oregon, and
served from 1891-1894, with residence in Portland. He
continued the practice of law in Portland; and was
district attorney for the fourth judicial district 1900-
1902; was elected governor of Oregon in 1902 and re-
elected in 1906. He resigned as governor after serving
two years of his second term, having been elected sen-
ator. He was elected in 1908 as a Democrat to the
United States Senate; re-elected in 1914, and served
until 1921. He was chairman of the senate committee
on military affairs during the entire period of the World
War: was an unsuccessful candidate for re-election in
1920: and a member of the United States shipping
board from June 13, 1921, to June 30, 1923, when he
resigned to engage in law practice in Washington, D.
C. He died there July 9, 1928, and was buried in Ar-
lington National Cemetery.”

Duncan Cuincu Hrywarp, Governor South Carolina
Washington and Lee

Born in Richland county, South Carolina, June 24,
1864, Heyward was educated at Cheltenham Academy,
Pennsylvania, and Washington and Lee University.
An extensive rice planter, he became president of the
Standard Warehouse company; president of Columbia
Savings Bank and Trust company; and was governor
of South Carolina for two terms, 1903-1907. He was
appointed collector of internal revenue, district of South
Carolina, in 1913.

Heyward is now special agent of the Aetna Life
Insurance Company. His home is 101 South Edisto
avenue, Columbia, South Carolina; office 101 Palmetto
Building, Columbia, South Carolina.’

GrorcE WASHINGTON Hays, Governor of Arkansas
Washington and Lee

Hays was born in Ouachita county near Camden,
Arkansas, September 23, 1863. He was educated at

district schools and became a law student at Washing-
ton and Lee University.

Hays, a Democrat, began practice in Camden, Ar-
kansas, in 1894; was county and probate judge of Oua-
chita cunty 1900-1904; judge of the thirteenth judicial
circuit of Arkansas, 1906-1913; and governor of Ar-
kansas, 1913-1919. He lives in Little Rock, Arkansas."®

Juttus CALDEEN GuNTER, Governor of Arkansas
Washington and Lee

Born in Fayetteville, Arkansas, on October 31,
1858, Gunter was a student at the University of Vir-
ginia, 1876-1879, and a student at Washington and Lee
University, 1875-1876. He received his LL.D. from
the University of Colorado in 1926, and was admitted
to the Colorado bar in 1881 and practiced in Trinidad.
He was judge, third judicial district, Colorado, 1889-
1895 ; judge of Colorado circuit court of appeals, 1901-
1905 ; justice Supreme Court of Colorado, 1905-1907 ;
practiced at Denver 1907-1917; and was governor ot
Colorado from 1917-1919.

He was president of the trustees, Tillotson Acad-
emy, Trinidad, 1886-1889; president trustees of Clay-
ton College, Denver, Colorado, 1911-1917; and regent,
University of Colorado, 1913-1915. Gunter was pres-
ident of the Colorado State Bar association 1907-08.
His home is 1363 Josephene street; office, Mquitable
building, Denver, Colorado."

THomMaAs CuipMAN McRAaAkg, Governor of Arkansas
Washington and Lee

McRae was born at Mount Holly, Arkansas, De-
cember 21, 1851, and received his LL.B. degree at
Washington and [ee University in 1872. After 1877
he practiced at Prescott, Arkansas. He was a mem-
ber of the house of representatives 1877-1879; pres-
idential elector in 1880; chairman Democratic state
convention in 1884; and member of the Democratic
congressional committee 1888-1902; Democratic na-
tional committee 1896-1900; and elected to the 49th to
57th Congress (1885-1903), third Arkansas district.

McRae voluntarily retired from congress and was
elected governor of Arkansas in 1921. He served from
1921-23. He died at Prescott, Arkansas, June 3, 1929.!8

Austin Peay, Governor of Tennessee
Washington and Lee

Austin Peay, governor of ‘Tennessee, was born
near Hopkinsville, Kentucky, June 1, 1876. He went
to Center College at Danville, Kentucky, and at-
tended Washington and Lee 1892-93. He began the

[ 8 |

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

practice of law in Clarksville, Tennessee, where he
made his home for the remainder of his life. Soon
he entered politics as a Democrat, and in 1900 and 1902
was elected to membership in the Tennessee house of
representatives. He became chairman of the Democratic
state executive committee in 1905. Three years later
he was campaign manager for Malcolm R. Patterson,
the successful candidate of the anti-Prohibitionists for
the governorship. For the next decade he devoted him-
self to his legal practice. In 1918 he was defeated by
Albert H. Roberts for the Democratic gubernatorial
nomination. Four years later, however, he won the
nomination against three opponents and easily defeated
the Republican candidate, Governor Alfred A. Taylor.
In 1924 he was re-elected with negligible opposition,
and in 1926 he broke a tradition of years by winning
election to a third consecutive term.
He died at the executive mansion in Nashville.!®

Rusy LArroon, Governor of Kentucky
Washington and Lee

Born at Madisonville, Kentucky, on January 15,
1869, Laffoon studied at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and at Columbia law school, Washington, D. C.
He began the practice of law at Madisonville in 1892;
became partner of William H. Yost, and later became
partner of C. J. Waddill. He was named county attor-
ney of Hopkins county, Kentucky; judge of the cir-
cuit court, fourth judicial circuit, Kentucky, 1921-1931 ;
and was elected Governor of Kentucky in 1931, and
still holds that office.?°

GEORGE CAMPBELL PEERY, Governor of Virginia
Washington and Lee

Born at Cedar Bluff, Tazewell county, Virginia,
October 28, 1873, Peery received a B.S. from Emory
and Henry College, Virginia, in 1894; and his law de-
gree at Washington and Lee in 1897. He began prac-
tice at Tazewell in 1897, and moved to Wise, Vir-
ginia, in 1899.

Peery returned to Tazewell in 1915. He became
vice-president of Norton Hardware company ; director
of Virginia Harlan Coal Corporation, Colburn Home
company, Inc.; Buckhorn Coal company; and Barner
Raven Coal Corporation. He was a delegate to the
Democratic national convention in 1920; a member of
the 68th and 70th Congresses (1923-1929), and a mem-
ber of the Virginia State Corporation Commission in
1929.

Peery is a trustee of Washington and Lee univer-
sity. In 1933 he was elected governor of Virginia in
which capacity he is now serving.”!

| ‘2

Avutuor’s NotE—All dates mentioned above from
1834 to the present are as complete as they can be made
from available Washington and lee and other records,
matriculation books from 1834 have been preserved,
and it is believed all dates are correct. Prior to 1834,
however, college records and registers of students are
defective, some of the records have been lost and others
have been mutilated. Names of alumni before 1834,
therefore, have been obtained from fragmentary record
books, contemporaneous history, and from family rec-
ords and the recollections of alumni. In the dates of
attendance at Liberty Hall a period of time is repre-
sented during which the alumnus attended college in
Lexington. Dates of Washington College men have
been purposely omitted in the headings but will be
found in the story.

REFERENCES

1 National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol. 1,

page 219.
Catalogue of officers and alumni, 1749-1888, page 48.

Et cere Cyclopaedia of American Biography, V. 7,
pp. 207.

8 Dictionary of American Biography, Vol. XI, page 219.

See also National Cyclopaedia of American Biography,

Vol. 5, p. 122.

4 Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography, Vol.
IV, p. 155.

5 Appleton’s Cyclopacdia of American Biography, Vol.
II, page 277.

6 Dictionary of American Biography, Vol. XII, p. 30.

7 Congressional Directory.

8 Who’s Who in America, Vol. VIII.

9 Dictionary of American Biography.

10 Who’s Who in America, Vol. 12, pp. 1987-8.

11 The National Cyclopaedia of American Biography.

12 Congressional Directory.

183 Who’s Who in America, Vol. III.

14 Congressional Directory.

15 Who’s Who in America, Vol. 17, page 115.

16 Who’s Who in America, Vol. VIII, page 1009.

17 Who’s Who in America, Vol. XVIII.

18 Who’s Who in America, Vol. XII.
a, Dictionary of American Biography, Vol. XIV, pp.
371-2.

20 Who’s Who in America, Vol. XVIII.

21 Who’s Who in America, Vol. XVII.

 

Board of Trade President

WituiAM IF. CHANDLER, who was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1929, has been elected president
of the junior board of trade in Louisville, according to
information received by the alumni office. A clipping
of the Louisville Courier-Journal carries Mr. Chand-
ler’s photograph along with the story of his election.

This newly-honored alumnus was graduated with
an A.B. degree and is a member of Phi Delta Theta
fraternity.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

When Tucker Hall Was Destroyed

The above photographs, taken during and after the fire that destroyed Tucker Hall early the morning of December 16,
give an idea of just how furious the blaze was and just how much damage was done. The lower picture was snapped while
the fire was at its height, and the upper one in the light of early dawn, after firemen, students, V. M. I. cadets and towns-
people had fought the flames to a standstill and saved Washington College itseif from destruction. The entire interior of
Tucker Hall was a mass of flames when the fire was discovered, halting every effort to save the valuable law library and
other effects. ‘The fire was of undetermined origin.

[ 10 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Fire Destroys Tucker Hall

Dr. Gaines makes the following comment on the

Tucker Hall fire:

“The burning of Tucker Hall on the morning of
December 16 represents a distinct loss. The building
and all of its contents, including the valuable library
and a few art objects of charm, were destroyed.

‘Alumni and friends generally will be interested to
know that arrangements of a fairly satisfactory nature
have been made for carrying on the work during the
remainder of the present session. But these purely tem-
porary adjustments could not possibly be made _per-
manent.

“The present loss may be converted into one of the
great opportunities in the history of Washington and
Lee. We have the chance, indeed we have the impera-
tive, to erect a new Tucker Hall that will harmonize
completely with the lovely pattern of our architecture ;
that will be entirely fireproof, and will make forever
safe such treasures as we may accumulate; that will

 

Oya HA, home of Washington and Lee’s law

a school since its erection in 1899, lies in ruins as
the result of one of the most disastrous fires in the
University’s history, but in its stead will rise a new
building that will harmonize architecturally with Wash-
ington College and offer students every available mod-
ern facility.

Only grey stone walls remain to tell the story of the
early morning blaze that on December 16 destroyed the
University’s highly-valued law library and _ practically
everything else in Tucker Hall. Workmen this month
started tearing down those walls and began clearing
the site for the new building that has been authorized
by the board of trustees of the University.

Iiremen had barely succeeded in getting a stubborn
lumber yard blaze near the railway station under con-
trol about three o'clock that December morning when
the Washington and Lee fire, half a mile away, was
discovered. Firemen and students immediately rushed
all available aid to the campus and calls for help were
sent to Buena Vista and Staunton. The blaze, however,
had gained such headway when the alarm was sounded

add to these two features the latest equipment and fa-
cility for the instruction of law, thus providing a physi-
cal setting to maintain the admirable record of this di-
vision of the University. —

“The trustees have ordered that plans be made at
once. The University has no resource for these funds
except alumni and other friends who may believe in the
merit of its work and the nobility of its purpose. It is
not possible to invade endowment funds to construct
this building ; at present the allocation of federal funds
has not been opened to institutions under private con-
trol. There is no individual, so far as I know, who will
personally furnish this sum. We do not expect to con-
duct any kind of high-pressure campaign but the alum-
ni must know these facts.

“Any alumnus or other friend disposed at all to
philanthropy on large scale or small could certainly not
do better than turn his thought to Washington and
Lee. And any one who expects to help Washington and
Lee could not find a better time than the present.”

 

that only a few books were saved, those by students
who risked their safety to enter the building.

For fully an hour the fire menaced the Washington
College group of buildings, which were saved only be-
cause students, townspeople and firemen crawled over
them with fire extinguishers and water buckets, killing
sparks as soon as they settled. Part of the wall of
Tucker Hall nearest Washington College collapsed and
increased the danger of a general conflagration.

Approximately one hundred cadets from Virginia
Military Institute aided the fire fighters.

Washington and Lee’s loss was set at approximately
$85,000, a conservative figure, it was pointed out by
authorities. Paul M. Penick, University treasurer, said
the building was valued at $50,000 and Dean W. H.
Moreland of the law school set the value of the library
at $35,000, and called that ‘‘conservative.”

All of the library was burned, but Mr. Moreland
said the books could be replaced.

The University carried $20,000 insurance on the
building itself, and $10,000 on the law library.

Included in the loss was the valuable portrait of

L tee9

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Chief Justice Marshall which hung in Tucker Hall
along with other treasured paintings, and a bust of
John Randolph Tucker, placed in the building when it
was completed.

Students in the law school were dismissed until af-
ter the Christmas holidays as a result of the fire, but
other work in the University continued uninterrupted.

A meeting of the executive committee of the board
of trustees was called immediately, and they in turn
called a meeting of the full board. This meeting was
held in Lexington December 28, with all members ex-
cept three present.

The board named two committees, one on building
and one on finance, which began work at once. These
two groups will make a full report to the board late
in January. In the meantime, the board has authorized
immediate construction of a new home for the law
school, which will accommodate 150 students and will
contain “every modern facility,’ which will include an
up-to-the-minute library.

The two committees are made up as follows:

Finance: Herbert Fitzpatrick, Cleveland, Ohio,
chairman; John W. Davis, New York City; Newton
D. Baker, Cleveland, Ohio; Governor George C. Peery,
Richmond, Virginia; W. McC. Martin, St. Louis; Dr.
George Bolling Lee, New York City; Fowler McCor-
mick, Chicago; and Walter McDonald, Cincinnati,
alumni representative.

Building: James IL. Caskie, Lynchburg, Virginia,
chairman; John Randolph Tucker, Richmond, Vir;
ginia, alumni representative; Dean W. H. Moreland of
the law school; Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students ; and
Dr. R. W. Dickey, professor of physics and engineering.

Both Dr. Gaines and George W. St. Clair, rector,
are ex-officio members of each committee.

The Richmond, Va., firm of Carneal, Johnston and
Wright has been named resident architects for the new
law building. They will have associated with them a
firm “eminently known in the style of architecture em-
ployed at Washington and Lee.”

For the remainder of this year law students are
using a temporary but full working library housed for
the time in the old Y. M. C. A. room in Reid Hall.
Most of the law classes are being held in the Chemistry
building, although some are being met in Washington
college.

Workmen during the Christmas holidays renovated
the Reid Hall room, installing shelves for new books
purchased for the law library and partitioning off of-
fice space for Professors Light, McDowell, Williams
and Johnson. Dean Moreland is occupying the office
held by Dr. Morton, who has been given office space in
Newcomb Hall.

The Christian Work Council, which has occupied
the old “Y” room as successor to that organization on
the campus, has been moved temporarily to the Alumni
building.

Tucker Memorial Hall, as it was officially designat-
ed in the University catalogue, was erected in 1899 as
a memorial to John Randolph Tucker, who was con-
nected with the school of law at Washington and Lee
from 1870 to 1890. It probably was the most substan-
tially-built structure on the campus, with brick inside
walls supporting the grey stone of the exterior. There
were two lecture rooms, the library room, and offices
for each professor in the school.

 

“If a Man Die”

“Tf a Man Die” is the title of a book by Dr. W.
Cosby Bell, who received his A.B. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1907. The work has received wide
acclaim by literary critics.

Until his death a year ago, Dr. Bell was a professor
at the Episcopal Theological Seminary in Virginia,
where he had taught for more than a score of years.
Shortly after “/f a Man Die” was completed Dr. Bell
was stricken with a heart attack.

Dr. W. Russell Bowie, in a preface to the book says:

“In this book will be found a great soul’s answer
to the questions which all of us at some time or an-
other ask about life here and life hereafter: How can
we believe in the continuance of life in spite of the
body’s death? In what fashion can we think of the life
to come? What do we mean by a spiritual body? Will
there be recognition in another world of those we have
loved in this one? And how shall we employ there the
energies which have been developed here? And if it
still be said that for the answers set forward no abso-
lute proof is possible, nevertheless those who read
these pages will say: ‘These answers are so reasonable,
so in tune with all the best and truest that life dis-
closes, so gallant and so glowing, that I can dare be-
lieve them to be true.’ ”’

 

PRESIDENT RoosEvELT has announced the reap-
pointment of Newton D. Baker, of the board of trus-
tees of Washington and Lee, as an American member
of the permanent court of arbitration at The Hague.
His term of service will be for six years. Other mem-
bers of the court from the United States are Elihu
Root of New York; John Bassett Moore of New York;
and Manley O. Hudson of Massachusetts.

[ 12 |

ee:

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Story-Hawk:

Qa ARE two general
types of college students

prevalent on every American
campus: (a) the student who
can scan Chaucer; (Db) the
student who can bisect a right
triangle. As with all rules the
exception proves it, but when-
ever a student can leap
with equal agility from
logarithms to the Muill-
er’s Tale the professor
can be pretty sure there
is something wrong with
him. He willend up either
as Public Enemy No. 13
or in an insane asylum.

Brian Bell was type
a, and still is. To him
the complexities of Eu-
clid remain an unchang-
ed and unsolved mystery,
comparable to the uni-
verse of Albert Einstein
and a taste for gin. That
two and two make four
he is to this day not quite
certain, and as firsts of
the month have piled up
year after year the doubt
he felt as a student about
the equality of digits has
grown to a secret cer-
tainty. Likewise other
doubts, dimly felt in his
Lexington days, have
grown: about the feroc-
ity of African lions, the
philanthropy of public

servants, and the honesty of diplomats. For Brian Bell,
since that dark day when he left Lexington after an
argument as to the proper method of solving certain
mathematical problems, has served a mistress who fills
her lovers with doubt and shows them truth.

By THomas Sucrue, 1930

 

 

Tom Sugrue, who writes of a writer in the

following sketch, is an author in his own

right. He is the young man who has been
running about the world for The American
Magazine, putting down his impressions of
people and places in fascinating manner.

 

 

 

Brian Bell, 1911

[ 13 ]

An Impression of Brian Bell

How Brian Bell fellathwart
this lady, and how she charm-
ed him by whispering that the
solving of certain mathemati-
cal problems did not, after all,
make much difference, is a tale
that any newspaperman will
tell you when his copy for the
day is finished and _ his
tonsils have sponged up
the first draft of cool
beer. Her name is Rotary
Press, her charm is in-
describable, her cruelty
indisputable. For what
she gives in the begin-
ning she demands much;
for what she gives in the
end she asks nothing.
Young men hate and fol-
low her; old men love
and embrace her. Be-
tween the two extremes
a lot of things happen,
and a lot of things are
forgotten.

Forgotten, for one
thing, is the solution of
certain mathematical
problems, and the dis-
comforts attendant there-
to. To Brian Bell, sitting
nowadays at his desk in
the Associated Press of-
fice in Los Angeles, the
diploma which might
have stayed on the sheep
for all the good it may
have done him is a far-

away and very unimportant affair. Also unimportant
is the menu at the Pi Kappa Alpha house in Lexing-
ton. He has no use for the diploma, and he eats lunch
at the Los Angeles Athletic Club.

And even if he did wish to read over the lovely

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Latin phrases, or muse on the unpalatability of Rock-
bridge county beef, his mistress would not allow it.
In Hollywood an actress is suing for divorce; her hus-
band is courting another actress, who is also suing for
divorce; the husband of the second actress is courting
his leading lady, who in turn is engaged to a camera-
man. In Los Angeles a spiritualist group has been try-
ing to bring a dead man back to life by pickling him in
alcohol. Somebody from the Chamber of Commerce is
complaining that the Rose Bowl game isn’t getting
enough publicity. In Pasadena a man has been mur-
dered with an axe. All these things demand attention,
and Brian Bell, as head of the Associated Press in the
district, has to pay the attention.

It is his job to untangle the Hollywood mess and
get the names of the ex-husbands and ex-wives straight,
and to smell out, if it is there, the ugly little animal Pub-
licity Stunt.

It is also his job to assign reporters to the spirit-
ualist horror and the axe murder, being sure that no
respectable church denomination is injured by the man-
ner in which the spiritualist story is handled, and that
no reputable people are mistakenly linked with the
murder. After that he can pacify the Chamber of Com-
merce, and after that, if nothing else is happening of
note, he can go to lunch.

But even then he has no rest, for as he strolls to-
ward the club he runs into a crowd, and when he has
pushed through it he has to take out pencil and paper
and write down the suicide’s name and the eyewitness
stories. By that time his appetite is gone. |

So Brian Bell has little time to muse on the Pi
Kappa Alpha food and the diploma he didn’t get. Even
when the day’s work is done and he is allowed to go
home, his mistress intervenes. He is scheduled to speak
at a Lions banquet, a Kiwanis banquet, an advertising
club meeting, a Rotary convention. And if he does not
comply he is neglecting his job. A city editor or a bu-
reau chief who does not get around his town and mix
with its people will miss out on tips and stories that
can only be obtained through friends and acquaintances.
He will not know the feeling of the community, the
latest political movements, the scandal that is being
hushed up.

So Brian Bell puts on his white tie and tails, brushes
up his best anecdotes, and goes. When he returns home
there is a stack of local newspapers awaiting him, which
he must read diligently before retiring. And when that
is over he must call his office, listen to a summary of
what has happened since he left, and give orders as to
how it is to be handled.

Such a life to the layman is inexplicable. The aver-

age man takes his newspaper for granted, never giving
a thought to the means by which the facts in its pages
are obtained, marshalled, and disseminated. The life of
Brian Bell for the past twenty-three years would be,
to him, unbelievable.

To the average Washington and Lee alumnus, who
is used to thinking of his brother alumni as more or
less on a pattern, it would also be unbelievable. The
ranks of journalism are not heavily stocked with Lex-
ington graduates, probably because, until late years,
there was no direct stimulation to such a career in the
curriculum. Then too, journalism has always been a
strange calling, beckoning to square pegs in round
holes, perennial investigators of trivia, students of hu-
man spectacle, lovers of excitement, born news hawks.
Brian Bell was one of these, and still is.

He was born in York, South Carolina, and after a
preliminary education which included such enticing bits
as the theory that North Carolina was inhabited by
sheep-herders and Yankee spies, entered Washington
and Lee. As a student and an athlete he was no better
nor no worse than he should have been, being a poor
punter and a lousy mathematician. As a Pi Kappa Al-
pha he ate a good deal of food and passed sotto voce
remarks in meetings. As a freshman he was badly taken
in by a couple of Indianians.

The Indianians came to his room every night for
several months, and for no apparent reason. They
lounged on the bed, asked him questions, and listened
respectfully while he talked. After a few hours they
would go away, only to return the next night with a
fresh set of questions. Toward Christmas young Bell
became suspicious. While at home on vacation a great
realization came to him. The Indianians came to hear
him talk, drinking up his South Carolina drawl as a
toper slops up champagne.

The night he returned to school after the holidays
he found the Indianians waiting in his room. Without
a word he threw them out.

When Finals came in 1911 he left Lexington with
a choking sensation; regretful, as are all Washington
and Lee students, that paradise had ended, and resent-
ful of a system which opened the gates of Eden to him
for four years and then kicked him into the middle of
a cold, cruel world.

He was not inclined to accept the decree, so he
pondered (as did the writer in 1930) the question of
re-creation. Where, in the world of labor and sweat,
was there a profession like unto that of the undergrad-
uate, full of excitement, good fellowship, and ever-
unfolding knowledge? After a period spent in the po-
sition of Rodin’s Thinker he arose, went to the edi-

[| 14 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

torial office of the Columbia, S. C., newspaper, The
State, and applied for a job. The city editor looked him
over, noted a touch of maniacal curiosity in his soft,
good-natured eyes, and hired him.

Thereafter Brian Bell learned the newspaper bus-
iness from the bottom plate on the first press to the
gilded ball atop the flagstaff. He got his feet wet on the
police beat and got indigestion at the local banquets.
He suffered the anguish of political oratory and the
Chinese torture of re-write, and he sat around night
after night learning the mythology of his profession.
He learned of the New York World’s great city editor,
Charles Chapin, who killed his wife and died in Sing
Sing. He learned of the reporter who sent a lead on
the Johnstown flood story thusly: ‘Tonight God sits
in the hills above Johnstown,” and was rewarded by a
terse order from his city editor to, “Forget flood. In-
terview God.” He experienced the thrill of a by-line
and the nightmare of libel, and from 1914 to 1918 he
knew the strange, clammy feeling that comes when the
world starts going to pieces and the teletypes seem to
weep as they chatter the news.

Then, in 1923, after twelve years spent in absorb-
ing all there was to absorb from The State, he went to
Atlanta, Georgia, and the staff of the Associated Press.
He was equipped with four years of Lexingtonian cul-
ture, twelve years of journalism, a wife who had been
Alberta Harris (and who got her diploma from the
University of South Carolina), and a daughter named
Jane. With these he did so well that in a year he was
in New Orleans as head of the Associated Press bureau
there, and in another year was in New York on a rov-
ing assignment, covering more territory than a typhoon.

He doubled in brass, doing sports as well as straight
news, and had charge of the Associated Press staff
whenever the story demanded more than a single re-
porter. In the years 1925, 1926, and 1927 he had
charge of the Associated Press staffs on the three
stories which occupied more newspaper space than any
other yarns of the year: the Scopes evolution trial at
Dayton, Tenn., in 1925; the Halls-Mills murder trial
at Somerville, N. J., in 1926; and the Lindbergh hop-
off for Paris in 1927.

Between times, and until 1930, he covered. five
world’s series, a dozen national golf championships,
half a dozen championship prize fights, international
polo, and anything else that turned up with the day and
the season. He was with Gene Tunney at Speculator,
N. Y., and Stroudsburg, Pa., before the first Dempsey
fight, and thought that Tunney was “a great guy” and
would win. Such a thought was heresy at the time, and
Bell was outlawed by the sports experts, along with

Richards Vidmer, then of the New York Times.

One evening while the experts were going over the
day’s events, telling each other just what Dempsey
would do to Tunney while Bell and Vidmer looked
glumly on, the door opened and a small, poker-faced
young man, looking much like Walter Winchell, en-
tered.

“Are there any non-experts here?” the young man
asked quietly. Bell and Vidmer stood up. The young
man walked over to them and dropped his bag.

“Tll stay with you guys,” he said calmly, and sat
down.

The young man was Don Skene, whose recent book,
“The Red Tiger,” has revealed for the first time to the
general public a wit and knowledge of slang that years
ago were legend along Broadway and Park Row.

There were other stories that demanded the presence
of Bell. He travelled across the country and up and
down New York state with Jimmy Walker, when the
dapper kid from Greenwich Village was mayor of New
York. He went through Canada with Edward Windsor,
Prince of Wales. He toured with Bobby Jones, ‘Ty
Cobb, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and others whose names
have been lost in the shuffle of events and are interred
until death in the libraries of newspapers.

Meanwhile, in 1926, Brian Bell, Jr., joined the
family. One of his first acts was to swing a hard left
at his father. Fresh from the Tunney camp Papa Bell
immediately set about teaching his son to lead with his
left, not swing with it. He never succeeded, and today,
at the age of eight, Brian, Jr., is still a portsider. He
was registered at birth at Washington and Lee (class
of ’48) and declares emphatically that he will be there
in another ten years. Every time the Generals play the
Gamecocks he corners his mother and provokes a bet.
Pin money was plentiful last Christmas, following the
Thanksgiving game. .

In 1930 Los Angeles became such a hot spot for
news that Bell was needed, and he was made head of
the bureau. After four years he has decided to like the
climate, never misses a football game, and is happy in
a turmoil of news. His bureau is the center and clear-
ing house for Hollywood, Los Angeles, Pasadena and
most of Southern California, and a glance at the date-
lines of any newspaper on any day in the year will re-
veal the herculean job Brian Bell holds down with, in
the vernacular of the present, “the greatest of ease.”

Physically he is of indeterminate age. Meeting him
for the first time there is the immediate impression of
soft, friendly, tremendously alive brown eyes. The fea-
tures are orderly; first chiselled, then nicely rounded.
The hair is dark, flecked with iron grey; the face is

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

clean-shaven. He is of moderate height, with broad
shoulders and the general build of a halfback. The un-
natural note which pervades the first impression is a
bow tie. He wears no other form of cravat. After this
has been settled there is nothing else to ponder on.
Brian Bell has the most thoroughly young, vibrant,
likeable personality this writer has ever encountered.

It is this, probably, along with his amazing talent
for story-telling, that has made him, in four years,
one of the most popular men in Los Angeles and an
absolute necessity at the speakers’ table of any import-
ant function. His yarns go back over the twenty-three
years of his newspaper life, and to his student and
childhood days. They never fail to click, and there are
stories for every occasion. To relate any of them here
would be fruitless. Told by another person they lose
the magic which used to keep Jimmy Walker up all
night listening to them. Let Brian Bell tell them, some
day, when he comes back to his alma mater to receive
an honorary degree—one for which he will not have
to solve certain mathematical problems.

One incident in his public-speaking life is revealing.
The toastmaster who was to introduce him got so
wound up in his introduction, so enchanted by his own
oratory in praise of Bell’s oratory, that he sat down
without mentioning Bell’s name. Easily the old master
stood up, leaned to the microphone, and said, “My name
is Bell. I just thought I’d say a few words, like that
old darky I knew once... ”

When he went to Los Angeles Bell hadn’t seen a
movie since “The Birth of a Nation,” preferring the
legitimate stage. One of the studio executives, piloting
him about the lot, noticed his composure and the calm-
ness with which he acknowledged introductions to fam-
ous stars. I*inally they encountered Ruth Chatterton,
whom Bell had seen on the New York stage.

“Ah, Miss Chatterton,” he said with a bow, “it is
a pleasure to meet one whose name is familiar to me.”

“Do you mean to say,” the executive asked, “that
you never heard of all those other people ?”

“Never,” said Bell.

The executive thought a while.

“Pll give you $5,000 to come out here when we're
shooting a picture and tell those people you’ve never
heard of them,” he said finally.

For all that the diploma and the Pi Kappa Alpha
hash have become unimportant Bell is an ardent Wash-
ington and Lee rooter and a loyal alumnus. Recently a
meeting of Southern California alumni was held, and
it was decided to hold a banquet annually. Someone
suggested that a fund be raised to bring a Washington
and Iee team to the coast, as a gesture of good-will

from the western alumni and to advertise the school.
Everyone turned to Bell for suggestions.

“What team do you suggest that we bring out, Mr.
Bell?” he was asked.

“The debating team,” Bell said promptly. “It might
win.”

Which brings up the Bell story about the pretty
little prom-trotter who attended football games at Lex-
ington during those recent years when the Generals
looked more like privates. She used to go about the
house singing the “Swing,” to these words: “When
Washington and Lee’s men hold that line, hold that
line, hold that line . . .

But those days are over, as are the days when
Washington and Lee alumni were unorganized, and had
forgotten about the school and the fraternity and the
homecoming game; days such as Brian Bell encoun-
tered when he could not remember the secret words of
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He always wore the
pin, but never thought much about it, until one day on
a train a man sat down beside him and began to make
strange signs and utter foreign words. Frightened, and
convinced that the man was insane, Bell started to get
up and fetch a porter.

“Wait a minute,” the stranger cried in exasperation,
“are you a Pi Kappa Alpha or aren’t you?”

A newspaperman hasn’t much time to think of se-
cret signs and alma maters in these mad times, but
Brian Bell is an exceptional newspaperman and an ex-
ceptional person, and if too many actresses do not sue
for divorce and too many people kill other people with
axes he will no doubt weld the Southern California
alumni into a solid palanx of Washington and Lee
supporters.

If he doesn’t he’ll hear about it, one of these days,
from Brian, Jr., the portsider.

s*

 

Frankliniana Discovered

A TATTERED old book printed by Benjamin Frank-
lin in 1745, has been unearthed in the storerooms of
the Washington and Lee library.

This imprint by the father of American printing
is the. Presbyterian “Confession of Faith,” and prob-
ably was used for both family and church worship,
Miss McCrum, librarian, said. It carries announce-
ments of births and deaths, inscribed on tipped-in
pages by several different families.

Miss McCrum is engaged in a project which in-
cludes cataloguing and checking of all books in the 1i-
brary of the late Dr. D. B. Easter, which was donated
to the university at his death.

[ 16 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee U niversity

The Defending Champions

By RicHarp PowELL CARTER

Ose MATTER Of winning and defending Southern

a conference and state championships is getting to
be a habit with Washington and Lee teams—a good
habit that promises to be hard to break.

As football players the Generals showed their su-
periority last fall, bringing home the Virginia and Sou-
thern conference crowns, both undisputed. It’s an old
story and one that doesn’t

by lanky Charlie Smith of Jacksonville, Florida, who
holds down the center position. Smith is the same lad
who made a habit of snagging passes and breaking up
football games in the campaign last fall. A severe cold
kept him out of two practice games which the Generals
won by decisive margins during December, but he
is back in uniform at present. The basketball squad

is one of the smallest in

 

need repeating, but it’s a
good story, a tale of grid-
iron battles and of phe-
nomenal team-work and
coaching by Tex ‘Tilson
and Cy Young.

ene Pa oes trae

: January 10 |
You know that story, Jetty: 12500) cok.
but here’s something to Dea 99 8 ot ti:

add more zest to Washing-
tonand Lee athletic history.

Two Big Blue teams
will defend Southern con-
ference titles in indoor
sports this season. They
are Cy Young’s basketball
outfit and Coach Mathis’
wrestlers.

Last year the Generals
went down to Raleigh,
North Carolina, to the
conference cage tourna-
ment and bowled over one
strong opponent after an-
other to take the circuit
basketball crown. And last
year the wrestlers took the

February 5...

Pemunry 9.6000 *

weneuney Ze. 22 8
February 26..........
Southern Conference T

February 2..
es

DeUREY 28 io... .. vd.

 

Schedule

BASKETBALL

North Carolina at Lynchburg
.... Virginia at Lexington
....V. P. I. at Lexington
iin stad Duke at Durham
.William and Mary at Williamsburg
mee ee Duke at Lexington
....V. P. I. at Blacksburg
of . ) O Pee oe N. C. State at Lexington
Virginia at Charlottesville
fe. ae | ae eee Maryland at College Park
PeMeeery, 19... 50%. e608.
MOMOUREY 20... Abaca 4

Rea SEAR Pe

Pee. we. sc rue
ge ) Ca ae

igh Clemson at Clemson
South Carolina at Columbia
... Virginia at Lynchburg
ournament

WRESTLING

December 15... Johns Hopkins (0), W. and L. (34)
jak North Carolina at Lexington
rae Duke at Durham
..Michigan at Lexington
....V. P. I. at Blacksburg
March 1-2........ Southern Conference Tournament

NR AO Sos oa SS

years, but probably is as
experienced and speedy as
any combination put to-
gether here on the floor in
many years. Only twelve
men are on the squad, but
included in the number are
five letter men and every
member of last year’s state
championship freshman
outfit.
Besides Smith there are
Joe Pette, flashy forward;
Chip Jones, Bill Ellis and
Bob Fields, all guards.
That reveals a weakness
in forwards, but Young
has his promising sopho-
mores to depend on. There
are particularly Horace
Richardson, regularly a
center but readily shifted
to forward, and Norman
ler, who looked very good
in December practice tilts.
Coach Mathis’ grap-

St. Johns at Lexington

Richmond at Lexington

 

 

championship without
much trouble, tossing opponents all over the mat for
a series of startling victories.

The basketball team faces three tough games right
after the Christmas holidays as the Alumni Magazine
goes to press, then they take things more or less easy
until after examinations, resuming their schedule with
Duke University at Durham on February 2. From there
on the schedule gets harder and harder, culminating
with the Southern Conference tourney.

The Generals’ cage artists are captained this year

plers already have started
their season, blanking Johns Hopkins here in Decem-
ber to the tune of 34-0. Apparently the wrestlers are
headed for another big year, but they will face stren-
uous opposition, including the University of Michigan,
which meet will be staged in Doremus gymnasium on
February 18.

Four members of the undefeated Conference cham-
pions are available for service on the mat again this
year, together with Rowland Thomas, 1933 title holder
in the 118-pound class.

[| 17 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Hugo Bonino, important member of the Washing-
ton and Lee football team, again will wrestle in the
unlimited division, defending his conference crown.
Bonino, who will weigh in at about 235 this year, went
to the semi-finals in the national wrestling tourney
last year.

Here’s how the squads look:

BASKETBALL

Name Pos. Home Town
*C. C. Smith (Capt.) G Jacksonville, Fla.
*John P. Jones G Cleveland, Tenn.
*Robert E. Field G Miami, Fla.
*William D. Ellis G Ashland, Ky.
*Joseph J. Pette F Freeport, L. I.
James O. Watts, Jr. F Lynchburg, Va.
A. Marvin Pullen, Jr. F Richmond, Va.
Norman P. Jler G Louisville, Ky.
Giles C. Wright KF Ashland, Ky.
W. Fielden Woodward G Louisville, Ky.
C. Russell Doane F Freeport, L. I.
Horace S. Richardson Cc Bedford, Ind.

SWIMMING

Name Pos. Home Town
A. H. Wishnew Back Brooklyn, N. Y.
*H. M. Rhett, Jr. Breast Huntsville, Ala.
*R. H. McCauley, Jr. Free Hagerstown, Md.
*F. H. Reed Free Mobile, Ala.
*R. E. Harris Free Guntersville, Ala.
A. E. Sproul Breast Staunton, Va.
C. B. Winter Free Freeport, L. I.
R. C. Weinstein Free New York, N. Y.
P. S. Jones Free W. Hartford, Conn.
W. H. Daniel Free Dallas, Tex.
*G. R. Glynn Back New York, N. Y.
*C. C. Brasher Free Rutherford, N. J.
J. M. Taylor Breast Lexington, Va.
*T. K. Williams Free Glen Lyon, Pa.
*W. D. McDavid Free Pensacola, Fla.
D. W. Lund Free Lexington, Va.

WRESTLING

Name Wet. Home Town
Carl Arenz 155 Baltimore, Md.
David G. Basile 135 Brooklyn, N. Y.
John H. Bosman 135 North Branch, N. J.
*Hugo Bonino 233 Hawthorne, N. J.
*Frank D. Crew 126 Drexel Hill, Pa.
Robert E. Holland 155 Lexington, Va.
Martin Z. Kaplan 175 Louisville, Ky.
Walter F. Kirk, Jr. 145 Hasbrouck Hts., N. J.
Walter G. Lehr, Jr. 145 San Antonio, Tex.
Joe Levine 155 Washington, N. J.
George S. Lowry 135 Clifton Forge, Va.
S. Tilford Payne, Jr. , 118 Louisville, Ky.
*Glenn Shively 145 Chambersburg. Pa.
John Taylor 118 Lexington, Va.
*Rowland Thomas 118 Baltimore, Md.
*Edward Seitz 165 Cass, W. Va.

*Indicates letter man.

Four letter men are back for duty in the squared
circle, including George Short, captain; J. W. Davis;
E. L. Jean, and Charlie Mower.

Coach Cy Twombly has eight letter men back for
his swimming team, and asserts that “prospects are

good.” The swimmers’ schedule will include William
and Mary at Williamsburg, February 2; Duke at Dur-
ham, February 6; V. P. I. at Lexington, February 16;
and Virginia at Lexington, February 21.

Other letter men on the squad include Frank Crew,
126 pounds; I. G. Shively, 145; Ed Seitz, 165.

Only three meets are scheduled now for Washing-
ton and Lee boxers this year, with the team journeying
to Maryland on February 2; to Virginia Tech on
February 9; and entertaining St. Johns here on Feb-
ruary 106.

 

The Clovis Moomaw Award

Jack Forry BatLry, captain of Washington and
Lee’s 1935 football team, has been given the first Clovis
Moomaw award at the University, a recognition of
“excellence in blocking with those added qualities of
leadership and sportsmanship that represent the ideals
of football at Washington and Lee.”

The award is the culmination of an idea by Lau-
rence Witten, of Cincinnati, class of 1910, and was
established by him in memory of Clovis Moomaw, who
was an outstanding athlete at Washington and Lee;
was captain of the football team in 1911; later became
assistant coach; and was for a time professor in the
law school of the university.

Mr. Witten has given the University the parch-
ments which will be awarded each year to a member
of the football team who excels in blocking and bears
the qualifications of a true Washington and Lee gen-

* tleman. On each parchment is a reproduction of a pic-

ture of Clovis Moomaw in his football togs, along with
the inscription. ‘The original hangs now in the alumni
office.

Bailey, who lives in Maysville, Kentucky, played a
prominent role in the Generals’ march to Virginia and
Southern Conference gridiron championships last fall,
and attracted particular attention by his tackling and
blocking. Those who determined his fitness for the
award, and who will determine to whom the others
shall go, include the football coaches, the captain of
the team, the faculty chairman of athletics, the alumni
secretary, and the director of athletics.

 

Joun Gray, who received his M.A. from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1933, has accepted a call to a Ral-
eigh, N. C., church after serving as assistant pastor of
the Lexington Presbyterian church. He has been par-
ticularly active in student religious work at Lexington.

[ 18 ]

 

a cee

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Little Rock

THE ARKANSAS Washington and Lee Alumni asso-
ciation, inactive for many years, was reorganized at a
meeting at Little Rock Tuesday, November 20. Dr.
Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington
and Lee, was honor guest and speaker.

James H. Penick, class of 1917, who is vice-presi-
dent of W. B. Worthen Company, bankers, Little Rock,
was toastmaster. Hach alumnus introduced himself and
gave his class. Including guests, there were 41 present.

Dr. Hay Watson Smith of Little Rock, brother of
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president-emeritus of Wash-
ington and Lee, opened the meeting with the invoca-
tion. He was the guest of his son, George Smith, class
of 1931.

Charles W. Smith of Camden, class of 1879, judge
of the thirteenth circuit district of Arkansas from 1886
to 1906, and Chancellor W. E. Atkinson of Conway,
both of whom attended Washington and Lee when
General G. W. Custis Lee was president, made brief
talks, recalling incidents of college life. Chancellor At-
kinson also was state attorney general in 1888.

Tom B. Fitzhugh, of Augusta, class of 1931, made
a brief report on the
university's athletic re-
cord during the past
year, giving the scores
of the football games
played this year.

Dr. Gaines in his talk
gave a brief history of
the university, recalling
names of endowers of
the university who were
not alumni. He spoke ot
various changes in the
courses of study and the
college administration.

Officers elected were :
Mr. Penick, president ;
S. B. Harper of Fort
Smith, class of 1912,
and Harry J. Lemley of
Hope, class of 1910,
vice presidents ; George
Smith of Little Rock,

 

Dr. Gaines at Little Rock

The above picture was taken during the Washington and Lee
alumni meeting in Little Rock, and shows, left to right, Former
Judge Charles W. Smith of Camden, member of the class of 1879:
Dr. Gaines; and Chancellor W. E. Atkinson of Conway, class of 1872.
Both Judge Smith and Judge Atkinson, oldest alumni present at the
Little Rock meeting, attended Washington and Lee when General
G. W. Custis Lee was president.

class of 1931, treasurer; and Leighton McKinney of
Little Rock, clas of 1932, secretary.

It was decided to hold at least one meeting a year,
probably on General Lee’s or George Washington's
birthdays.

George Worthen of Little Rock, class of 1904, who
formerly was treasurer of the state association, an-
nounced that he had $23 in the treasury. When the
old association became inactive there was about $13 in
the treasury and interest through the years increased
the total amount to $23.

Those present included:

Little Rock :-—Henry M. Rector, 1897—5013 North
Lookout street. John M. Raines, 1916—518 North Ce-
dar. Dr. D. T. Hyatt, 121 Crystal—class of 1916. Grady
H. Forgy, 1916--—208 North Beech. Guy Fulk, 1923
1910 Arch street. Everett Tucker, 1934—Y. M. C. A.
George G. Worthen, 1904—704 West Second street.
Harry E. Meek, 1911 and 1915—819 North Ash street.
John W. Newman, 1908—4324 South Lookout. Walter
G. Riddick, 1904—2416 Wolfe street. Dr. R. T. Smith,
1920—822 West Third street. Farrar Newberry, Jr.,
1934-1724 West Twenty-fourth street. Bruce T. Bul-
lion, Jr., 1935 — 2804
Izard street. Alan W.
Woolfok, 1935—122
Johnson street. Hal L.
Norwood, 1890 — 4210
Crestwood drive. R. L.
Deal, Jr., 3318 West
Markham street —class
of 1931. George R.
Smith, 1931—819 West
Fourth street. Lee Caz-
ort, 1910 — 1616 West
Twenty-fourth street.
James H. Penick, 1918
—1623 Summit avenue.
R. L. McKinney, Jr.,
1932—1100 Prospect
avenue.

Augusta :—Thomas
3. Fitzhugh, 1931. Davis
Fitzhugh, 1928.

Camden:—C. W.
Smith, 1879.

 

 

[ 19 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Lake Village :—Robert L. Buffington, 1934.

Conway :—Robert W. Mosley, 1930—1915 Robin-
son avenue. Chancellor W. FE. Atkinson, 1872.

El Dorado:—M. P. Matheney, 1924—808 North
Madison avenue. John D. Trimble, 1915.

Fort Smith :—Curtis C. Wright, 1916.

Des Arc :—Shuford R. Nichols, 1930.

 

Shreveport

NortuH LouIsiANA alumni of Washington and Lee
university gathered at the Washington-Youree hotel in
Shreveport November 21 to honor Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, president of the university, speaker of the oc-
casion, and to elect alumni officers.

Dr. Gaines, in an eloquent and scholarly address,
turned the pages of time back to the founding of the
university, telling how George Washington contributed
$50,000 to the launching of the institution. He also re-
lated the other gifts which followed, and cited the
memorable-service of Robert E. Lee as president.

Dr. Gaines reviewed the accomplishments of alumni
of the university, showing that in proportion to the
number of students enrolled, a gratifying number of
graduates have attained high posts of responsibility in
their states and nation.

John H. Tucker, Jr., president of the Shreveport
chapter of the alumni, presided at the dinner gathering
and introduced the speakers. At the close of Dr. Gaines’
address, an election of officers was held and the follow-
ing were chosen to serve during the coming year:

Chairman of the board, J. M. Robinson, Shreve-
port; president, George M. Hearne, Jr., Shreveport;
vice-president, S. L. Herold, Shreveport; vice-presi-
dent, James D. Sparks, Monroe; secretary-treasurer,
C. C. Hutchison, Jr., Shreveport.

President Pierce Cline of Centenary college ad-
dressed the meeting briefly, praising the ideals of Wash-
ington and Lee university and welcoming Dr. Gaines
to Shreveport.

Washington and Lee alumni present included Wal-
ter E. Connell, J. B. Foster, C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., J.
H. Tucker, Jr., S. L. Herold, H. C. Hearne, Kenneth
Hickman, J. M. Robinson, Dr. I. P. Robinson, C. A.
Tooke, Jr., John W. Melton, Lee Mudd, George M.
Hearne, Jr., Leon D. O’Quinn and Clayton Lowe of
Shreveport; T. C. Standifer, Victor Davis, James D.
Sparks, O. B. Brown, and Gilbert Faulk, Monroe; T.
P. Stephens, Jr., and Harry S. Stephens, Coushatta ;
and W. P. Saunders, Mansfield.

Other guests included Guy Sample, Waldo Moore
and C. A. Hazen; all of Shreveport.

Memphis

AN ENTHUSIASTIC gathering of alumni at Memphis
heard Dr. Gaines during his extensive trip throughout
the middle west and south. About fifty-five persons
attended the banquet and elected John K. Speed as
president of the association; Barry N. Buford vice-
president ; Russ Pritchard, secretary and treasurer ; and
Pete Friedel, publicity manager.

Dr. Sam L. Raines presided in the absence of May-
nard Holt, whose father died suddenly just before the
meeting, and introduced Dr. Gaines. The university
president discussed the financial outlay of Washington
and Lee, and urged the alumni to co-operate with class
agents through giving attention to their letters. Dr.
Gaines also recounted briefly the history of the Uni-
versity and told of the success which so many alumni
have achieved throughout the nation.

Tom Boyle, class of 1876, oldest alumnus present
at the meeting, made a few remarks prior to Dr. Gaines’
address. After him, E. E. Buxton, well known Mem-
phis man, who has a son at Washington and Lee, was
presented.

Those present included :

J. S. Edmondson, Commerce Title Building ; Henry
B. Gotten, M.D., 20 S. Dunlap; Dolph Clark, 1035
McLemore; J. P. Long, M.D., 1513 Linden; H. Long-
shore, Pan American Petroleum Corporation; Robert
W. Pharr, 1406 Commerce Title Building; Charles W.
Cocke, 221 N. McLemore Boulevard; Abe Goodman,
Jr., American Finishing Co.; Barry N. Buford, Uni-
versity Club; Rufus A. Fulton, 1650 Peabody Avenue ;
Ed Shoup, Augusta, Arkansas; J. Milledge Nail, Ex-
change Building; W. J. Driver, Jr., Osceola, Arkansas ;
C. B. Driver, Osceola, Arkansas; Alfred Boyd, Jr.,
1110 Peabody; Cooper Turner, Jr., 1800 Exchange
Building ; Frank Jackson, 1703 Monroe Avenue ; Henry
W. Jones, R. F. D. No. 5, Box 78, Memphis; George
W. Maynard, Jr., Clarksdale, Mississippi; FE. W. Hale,
Jr., Whitehaven, Tennessee; Walk C. Jones, Jr., 1791
Carr Avenue; Herbert G. Dollahite, II, 402 Fifth Ave-
nue, South, Amory, Mississippi; Richard T. Doughtie,
Jr., New South Oil Co., Helena, Arkansas; George
W. Faison, Jr., 1319 Goodbar; John K. Speed, 1559
Linden Avenue; George L. Powers, Jr., D. D. S., 1467
Monroe Avenue; EF. D. Bozeman, Jr., 1001 Union
Planters Building; E. G. Woodson, Woodson & Boze-
man, Inc.; J. T. Morgan, 708 U. & P. Bank Building ;
Sam Raines, M.D., 1640 Vinton Avenue; T. R. Boyle,
653 S. McLean; Peter R. Friedel, 14 S. McLean, Apt.
17; Gus Morgan, 1468 Vinton Avenue; Russ A. Prit-
chard; Milton L.. Harris, Tunica, Mississippi; George

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

T’.. Steuterman, 822 Charles Place; Norman E. Hawed,
Holly Springs, Mississippi; John E. Taylor, 1055 N.
Evergreen; C. W. Rabb, 69 Union Avenue; Otis W.
Howe, Wabash, Arkansas; Louis Zimmerman, 1104
Exchange Building; J. S. Shields, 1104 Exchange
Building; James M. McKnight, 335 Kenilworth Place;
Allen Morgan, 1468 Vinton Avenue ; Edward S. Jacobs,
1389 Lamar Avenue; Jack Lowe, Tunica, Mississippi ;
Edward Felsenthal, 543 S. Belvedere Boulevard: M.
IX. Newbern, Jr., Marianna, Arkansas; M. C. Frank,
1685 Forrest Avenue; Jimmy Durham, 41 N. Bellevue
& Peabody Hotel; W. V. Brooks, 1756 Central Avenue.

Saint Louis

SIXTY-FIVE ALUMNI, their wives and parents of
students now at Washington and Lee, met for a dinner
in honor of Dr. Gaines at the University Club of St.
Louis, Missouri, November 19.

Two of the University’s oldest alumni, Ashley Ca-
bell, 1875, of St. Louis, and George Mahan, 1869, of
Hannibal, who attended Washington and Lee during
the years General Lee was president, spoke after dinner.

Mr. Cabell recalled evenings spent before the fire
in General Lee’s living room and said they were the
finest influence in his life. Mr. Mahan described the
days when the greatest social event of the college was
the “mite supper” at the General’s church, “‘a little red
brick building which stood where the Lee Memorial
church now stands. For 10 cents we could get several
sandwiches and a glass of lemonade. The supper was
outstandng and the girls beautiful, but few of us could
ever scrape together 10 cents.

“T was just a country boy when I arrived at Wash-
ington and Lee and all the manners I have ever had
were taught me by the General.”

Dr. Gaines outlined the financial situation of the
University and pointed out that during the past the
greatest contributions had been made by men who had
not attended Washington and Lee. He named alumni
in every era of American life, from the foundation of
Augusta Academy in 1749 down to the present, who
had been prominent in the affairs of the nation. He
assured the group that, though the mortality of honor
systems in various universities had been very high
within recent months, there was no danger at Wash-
ington and Lee because all of the men who attended
were carefully selected.

McChesney Martin, 1895, governor of the Federal
Reserve Bank in St. Louis and a member of the board
of trustees, and Major C. R. Strickling, 1917, of the
Missouri Military Academy, gave short talks.

After dinner Mr. Patterson first presented in turn
the two alumni who are distinguished by having been
students while General Robert E. Lee was president.
Mr. Patterson then presented briefly Mr. Martin, Mr.
larimore, Mr. Seddon, Wayne Ely, and Mr. Keyser.

Those present, alumni and guests, included: Mrs.
Sherwood Moore; J. Edgar Stewart; James O. Phelps,
Jr.; Douglas Danforth; Mrs. T. R. Dentman: W. W.
Keyser ; Sam P. McChesney ; Mrs. Sam P. McChesney ;
Col. Charles R. Stribling, Mexico, Mo.; Clifton H.
McMillan, Jr.; George F. Atwood; George A. Mahan,
Hannibal, Mo.; Mrs. H. H. Larimore; H. H. Lari-
more; Edwin E. Bacon; Mrs. J. Edgar Stewart; Wil-
liam McC. Martin; Sherwood Moore: Mrs. Wayne
Ely; Mrs. Bruce Seddon; Tom C. Atwood; Mrs. G. T.
Daves ; G. T. Davis; F. M. Robinson; R. G. Livengood ;
Bruce Seddon; Wayne Ely; Mrs. F. M. Robinson:
Mrs. A. C. Newton; Cleveland A. Newton; J. With-
nell Hager; M. H. Braun; Andrew Baur; Mrs. J. G.
Lonsdale; John G. Lonsdale; Mrs. Andrew Baur: W.
ky. Reasor; Charles Hayden Reasor; P. Betts; William
B. Jones; David Newell Conn, Alton, Ill.;*Mrs. Wil-
liam B. Jones; Mrs. D. H. Patterson; Mr. and Mrs.
W. J. Edmond; Thomas T. Richards, Jr.; B. S. Pruett :
Mrs. William Purnell Diggs; Mrs. Lillian B. Lewis:
H. S. Hartzog; Mrs. Henry S. Hartzog, Jr.; Mrs. B.
5. Pruett; James H. Forbes; Charles Peaper; Mrs.
H. W. MacDonald; H. W. MacDonald.

Louisville

WITH ONE HUNDRED AND FOUR persons attending
their banquet-meeting, alumni of Louisville staged one
of the most enthusiastic gatherings in their history
when Dr. Gaines visited them on his trip through the
midwest and south in November.

The banquet, which was held at the Kentucky Hotel
in Louisville, had as especial guests ten boys from local
high schools who are prospective Washington and Lee
students. This group attended as guests of the Louis-
ville association, and heard Dr. Gaines tell of the tra-
ditions and ideals of Washington and Lee. Present also
as special guests were fathers and mothers of Wash-
ington and Lee students.

John J. Davis, class of 1897, presided at the ban-
quet and acted as toastmaster, introducing Dr. Gaines
to the gathering.

Guests of honor along with Dr. Gaines included Su-
perintendent Frederick Archer of the Louisville public
school system; Dr. Raymond A. Kent, president of the
University of Louisville, and Mrs. Kent; and Profes-
sor William S$. Milburn, principal of the Louisville
Male High school.

[ 21 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Agents for 1934-35

Durinc the past year the class files of the Alumni
Office have been re-classified. It has been the rule here-
tofore to place a non-graduate in the class as of the
year he left school rather than that of the class with
which he entered. This has led to confusion in the
Class Agent Plan under which the association is now
working, and will explain to many alumni why they
will receive class letters this year from the agent of a
different class from that of last year.

For example: a man entering in the fall of 1920
belongs to the class of 1924, whether he “goes on to
graduation” or not. A man receiving one or more de-
grees from the University is placed in the class with
which he took his A.B. degree.

 

1934—Amos BoLen, Lexington, Va.

1933—Car_L B. Vickers, Montgomery, W. Va.

1932—Henry B. MacKenzie and ALLEN S. Carr,
Building and Loan Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1931—Watcrter E. Horrman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

1930—Hersert G. JAHNCKE, 6209 Perrier St., New
Orleans, La.

1929—Joun Bett Towitr, 1015 Southern Finance
Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

1928—F. M. P. Pears, Jr., 490 Middlesex Ave., Me-
tuchen, New York.

1927—Cuarces J. Crocxerr, Widener Bldg., Phil-
adelphia, Pa.

1926—Basit G. Warxins, Peoples National Bank
Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.

1925—Joun Cooper Morrison, Jr., Kanawha Valley
Bank Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1924—C.. Hacan Minnicu, Bristol, Va.

1923—R. MauricE Frew, Rutherfordton, N. C.

1922—L.outs A. DuNLApP, Pulaski, Va.

1921—THomas X. Parsons, Colonial American Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

1920—R. M. Case, Covington, Va.

1919—

1918—E. D. CampseEct, Southern Bldg., Washington,
os Ro.

1917—HeErsert G. Perers, Bristol, Va.

1916—Brucr F. Wooprurr, 729 Healey Bldg., At-
lanta, Ga.

1915—K1 Wittrams, Waynesboro, Va.

 

1914—CLarENcE L. SAGER, 26 Broadway, New York
City.

1913—BeEnyJAMIN F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

1912—Wittram A. Hyman, 100 William St., New
York City.

1911—J. Nevin Kitmer, Martinsburg, W. Va.

1910—Lavurence C. Wirren, Union Trust Bldg.,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

1909—Dr. Jonn WittrAm Craupy, Rockview Farm
Prison, R. F. D. 3, Bellefonte, Pa.

1908—Dozirr A. DEVANE, Federal Power Commis-
sion, National Press Bldg., Washington, D. C.

1907—Rev. A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Fla.

1906—

1905—Rev. R. A. Lapstey, D.D., Virginia Ave., Roa-
noke, Va.

1904—GeorcE E. Haw, 403 Travelers Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

1903—Rev. J. M. B. Git, St. Paul’s Rectory, Peters-
burg, Va.

1902—Dr. Witt1am ALLAN, Medical Bldg., Charlotte,
Peet

1901—Mavrrew Pact Anprews, 849 Park Ave., Bal-
timore, Md.

1900—

1899—Harry Sr. G. T. CArMICHAEL, Kyrock, Ky.

1898—Norman S. Firznucn, Kanawha Banking &
Trust Co. Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1897—F. Perris Hamivron, 408 Walnut St., New
Orleans, La.

1896—H. H. Larimore, Missouri Pacific Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

1895—

1894—James N. Veecu, 3907 Frankfort Ave., Louis-
ville, Ky.

1893—Lon H. Ketty, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg.,
Charleston, W. Va.

1892—Joun J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Ky.

 

1891
1890—Dran Douctas S. AnbErsonN, Tulane Univer-
sity, New Orleans, La.

 

(Classes from 1889 through 1868 will have as their
class agent the Alumni Secretary, who will keep
in touch with them himself by personal letters.)

[ 22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Class

ASHINGTON AND L&e’s Alumni Association, as

all former students of the University know, 1s
thoroughly dependent upon the success of the class
agent plan. This plan has been explained in detail many
times, but the editors of the Alumni Magazine feel that
- a resume at this time is good and proper.

This is particularly true because the class agent plan
“Starts anew each spring.”

On the opposite page you will find reprinted from
the last issue of the magazine a list of the class agents
for the year 1934-1935. Please read them carefully and
keep them for your own reference.

In November 1932°the alumni board of trustees
met with the University board of trustees to formu-
late some kind of a plan to make the Alumni Associa-
tion self-supporting. After a lengthy discussion and a
thorough investigation the class agent plan was adopted.

The class agents are the backbone of the plan. They
are in direct contact with their classmates and the
alumni office and to them goes the full credit for what-
ever success the plan attains.

Each spring the agent makes personal contact with
every man in his class, asking first for a response giv-
ing news of himself, and second for a contribution to

Agent Plan

the alumni fund of whatever the promptings of his
heart and his pocketbook make possible.

Attention is called to the fact that some of the
agents have as many as 300 names on their class ros-
ters and your prompt reply to the first letter received
will relieve your agent of duplication in his work.

Since the class agent plan has been in effect the
activities of the alumni office have increased ten-fold.
It is now possible for the association to function more
effectively and the alumni have been brought into closer
contact with the University than ever before. We know
the plan is sound. In the words of Dr. Gaines, “‘it
is probably the finest hope now before Washington
and Lee.”

The funds received from this plan are expended
at the direction of the alumni board, first, to relieve the
University of the support of the Alumni Association,
and second, for whatever assistance the association
may be able to render the University.

In 1933, the first year the plan was in operation,
about 1,000 letters were received from alumni, 512 of
whom contributed $3,765.15. In 1934 about 1,500 let-
ters were received with 649 alumni contributing $4,-
578.18. No definite goal for 1935 will be set, but we

 

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN

BUS TERMINAL

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL

Biographies of Lee and Jackson
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........_ ...._ 1.50
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid............ se

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

 

[ 23 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

feel sure there will be a substantial increase in both
the number of letters and the amount of contributions
over the two previous years.

Some time during the month of February or March
you will receive a letter from your class agent. Won't
you give him a prompt reply ?—Cy Younc.

 

Tune in on Fancy Dress!

SET your radio dial for some Columbia network
station from twelve o’clock midnight to twelve-thirty
January 25, and hear Isham Jones’ orchestra in a special
program direct from Doremus gymnasium.

This year Fancy Dress will go on the air as a
Washington and Lee program, free from _ ballyhoo.
When you tune in, you'll hear the Swing, and possibly
College Friendships.

Present plans call for the broadcast to be avail-
able for every station in the Columbia network, so
you'll have no trouble picking up the program, which
is made possible largely through the co-operation of
the Columbia Broadcasting System.

It's a coast-to-coast hookup that no Washington
and Lee alumnus should miss. Here are a few facts
about the ball itself, which probably will be on a more
elaborate scale than ever before:

Characters from romantic pages of history will
come to life again when Washington and Lee students
stage their annual Fancy Dress ball in Doremus gym-
nasium on January 25. Tallyrand, representative of the
Bourbon king of France; the Duke of Wellington;
Prince Metternich; Lord Castlereigh—all will stalk
about the dance floor that night, personified by stu-
dents and their girls—for that night Doremus will be
transformed into the scene of the first imperial ball of
the Congress of Vienna.

The Fancy Dress figure this year will be led by
Don Wallis, senior in the University, with Miss Isabel
Connolly, student at Indiana University. Both are na-
tives of Indiana—Wallis’ home is at Stinesville, and
Miss Connolly lives in Muncie.

The first Fancy Dress ball at Washington and Lee,
by way of reminiscing, was given by Miss Annie Jo
White back in 1907. “Miss Annie,” who still lives in
her home on the Washington and Lee campus, recalls
that the first dance cost her exactly $42. The ball Jan-
uary 25 will represent an outlay of more than $6,000.

Junior Prom will open the week-end of gayety at
Washington and Lee on Thursday evening, January
24. The prom will be led by Frank L. Price, president
of the class, with Miss Nancy Hall. Both are from
Washington, D. C. There will be a morning dance the
following day, the day of Fancy Dress ball, and an-
other morning dance and a tea dance on Saturday. Sat-
urday evening the University will see its first “Miami
Triad” dance, with Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi
and Sigma Chi as the sponsors. All three fraternities
were founded at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.

Decorative plans call for a profusion of scarlet vel-
vet draperies in Doremus, which will resemble any-
thing but a college gymnasium when the professional
decorators engaged this year have completed their work.
Tall white marble-like columns will be at one end of
the gym, and through these the figure will march.

An invitation to attend Fancy Dress this year has
been extended the Austrian minister to the United
States by Dr. Francis P. Gaines in view of the theme of
the dance. It has been indicated that he will attend.

Officers of the Fancy Dress organization this year
are B. EK. Brennon, a senior, of Rockville Center, N. Y.;
Fletcher Maynard, a junior, of Clarksdale, Mississippi ;
and Ben Thirkield, a junior, of Middletown, Ohio.

 

 

3

  
 

LA

a SE
me TVY NOIRE

     

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
OFFICIAL CLASS RING

With your year of Graduation and

Degree
Set With Sapphire Stone
IK: Sort: Geawssiiii en, $21.20
ie <P ae society Ss $14.70

L. G. BALFOUR COMPANY
C. S. & C. Division

ATTLEBORO, MAss.

 

 

 

 

 

[ 24 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1934

Dick PARMELEE is

 

H. F. Davis, A.B.,
Johnston, Pennsylvania, is
attending the Harvard
school of business this year.

Craup A. LAVARRE,
M.A., has a position with

 

Some of the information about alumni presented
in the following class notes was gathered from the
general round of letters of 1934. As a result, there
may be later information due about some of those
mentioned. Let your class-agent know of any changes.

manager of the General
Worth H otel, Hudson,
New York.

Ross L. MALONE, JR.,
opened an office for the
practice of law last De-

 

 

the Singer Sewing Machine
Company and is being sent to Lima, Peru, So. America.

1933

Nem Z. Merepitu has landed a job with a small
railroad that more or less dominates his part of the
country. He is heartily in favor of the new class or-
ganization plan for Washington and Lee. He lives in
Huntington, West Virginia.

JAcK GARRISON laments that Washington and Lee
men are scarce in his part of the country and he seldom
sees one. He has obtained a job in Greenville with a
national concern which has a branch there. He says
that hard work has been his lot but it is interesting
and remunerative.

JouNn HorrmMan has been with the J. C. Penny
Company since September, 1933. His address is 333
Cherry Street, New York City.

I*'rED Cook was a fellow in chemistry at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee in Knoxville last year and re-
ceived his Master’s degree at the end of the summer.
The work was “mountainous in proportions, but in-
teresting.”

RALPH CARTWRIGHT (BARNEY) BARNETT has been
in the shoe manufacturing business and attending
classes in the Ohio State University graduate school.

* “De” CrarK is working for the American ‘Tobacco
Company.

Kk. J. Wirson, B.S., Rome, Georgia, is attending

the Harvard school of business this year.

1932

Joun Crinton Harris is a member of the firm of
a stove manufacturing plant at Scottsboro, Alabama.

Jack G. Marks is studying at Columbia school of
law and will get his LL.B. in 1935.

cember in Roswell, New
Mexico. He says the practice of law in New Mexico
“seems to require everything from ability as a sheep
herder to that of first class detective.”

F. S. Smirn of Greensboro, North Carolina, is at-
tending the Harvard school of business this year.

1931

Russet O. Morrow is practicing law at Lake
Wales, Florida.

CHARLES (CHUCK) BowEs is on the editorial staff
of the Denver Post. Both he and his brother ‘“Watty”
married Southern girls. “Watty” married Eva Lyman
of Newcastle, Virginia, and “Chuck” married Quigley
Austin of Kentucky.

LLtoyp A. Myers, Jr., is with the Black Diamond
Trailer Company of Bristol, Tennessee-Virginia.

CHAN Gorpon is working for the Carbon Fuel
Sales Company, miners and distributors of carbon coal,
Traction Building, Cincinnati. His address is Box 91,
Kast Iansing, Michigan. He travels over a large ter-
ritory and has done good work for the alumni office
in getting scattered alumni of his section in touch with
each other.

[. fk. Hupson is in his fourth year of medicine at
the University of Pennsylvania.

1930

CHARLES R. VANHorN is division passenger agent,
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 16 North Third Street,
Columbus, Ohio. He was married June 20, 1933, to
Miss Mary Earle Patton of Gulfport, .Mississippi.

JAMES B. Merrick is teaching at Church Hill,
Maryland, which is near his home town of Crumpton.

Davip N. Conn has been married for almost five
years. He graduated from Washington University law

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

school in June, 1933, and has been practicing law in
Alton, Illinois. He is associated with I. H. Streeper,
III, who is a member of the law class of 1923.

WitiiaAMm H. FIeEtps, Jr., lives in New Orleans,
Louisiana, at 7429 Hampson Street. He formerly lived
in Montgomery, Alabama.

MERLE SuvTER went to work for the General Elec-
tric Company on leaving school. He is now working on
an extensive survey in and around Clarendon, Virginia,
and taking some work at George Washington Uni-
versity.

WittiamM Henry KEMBLE is with the Bristol Pub-
lishing Corporation at Bristol, Tennessee- Virginia.

Bitt Atsop is assistant general manager of the
Dixie Lime Products Company at Ocala, Florida, with
its works at Zuber, Florida. Gets up to Jacksonville oc-
casionally for a round of golf, where he sees Bob
Avant, Harry Wilson and Jack Ball.

C. E. Nresuss is living at Riderwood, Alabama.

Joun I. HENDERSON is in the real estate business
in Houston, Texas, and notes a decided up-trend in
business there.

PALMER Brown is with Brown and Bolton, bag-
ging and ties, press cloth, sugar bag cloth, patches,
etc., Memphis, Tenn.

1929

Harry S. STEPHENS is practicing law with the
firm of Stephens & Stephens, in Coushatta, Louisiana.

Ropert B. LEE is with the Bankers’ Trust Co., 25
FE. 57th St., New York. His home address is 437 Fast
58th St., New York.

Harry C. LAwpbeEr is in the family grocery con-
cern which has been an institution since 1860. He
spends much time sailing his cruiser in the waters of
the Chesapeake, he says. His home is Havre de Grace,
Maryland.

Ep WuiTrs, since leaving the University in 1929, has
been graduated in law from Oklahoma University, but
he says he has been “making his living, like most young
lawyers, with trombones and saxophones, playing for
dances.”’ His organization is known as “Ed White and
His Original Sooners.”

Bitty Munrorp has taken up art and architecture
seriously since leaving Washington and Lee. He has
just obtained commissions to do three murals in Rich-
mond, Virginia, but says that mail sent to his home in
Anniston, Ala., will be forwarded to him.

O. Norris Smiru received his M.D. from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania in June, 1933, and is interning
at the Pennsylvania Hospital.

J. L. (SuHorty) Rue went to Seattle, Washing-
ton, after leaving school and became a bond salesman
and real estate agent. He has now returned to his home

-in Hobart, Oklahoma, and is with the Farmers and

Merchants National Bank.

S. J. THompson is associated with Lawrence R.
Thompson in the law firm of Thompson & ‘Thompson,
Rustburg, Virginia.

1928

Jerry STONE is with the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity, in the accounting department, at Knoxville, Tenn-
essee. He is married and has a son two years of age.

G. Watpo DUNNINGTON has been teaching math-
ematics and German in the Hornor College, Kansas
City, Missouri, which is now merged with the new Un-
iversity of Kansas City.

Lucius L. DavupcE graduated from Tulane Med-
ical College in 1932, interned a year in New Orleans,
and is now in private practice in Amite, Louisiana. He
was married to Miss Ruth Smith of Jackson, Louis-
iana, in 19353.

Britt NorMAN is married and working for the Bank

of Crossett in Crossett, Arkansas.

Percy CoHEN is a junior partner in the H. Cohen
Furniture Company of Nashville, Tennessee.

1927

“Boer” Fores, Jr., is manager of apartment house
sales, Thompson Sterling General Electric Company,
Louisville, Kentucky—Martin Brown Building.

1925
LinpsAy R. HENry is assistant district attorney,
Suffolk county, Babylon, New York. ,

Joun Howarp Emricu is manager of the Tyron-
za Supply Co., Tyronza, Arkansas.

1924

Rev. A. EMERSON JOHNSON is minister of a group
of Presbyterian churches in and near Monterey, Vir-
ginia.

Jack Tuomas is chaplain of Hollins College, Hol-
lins, Virginia.

[ 26 |

ie Ailes

i I i i a a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

MarsHaLt A. Morr is general manager of the
Hartford Better Business Bureau, Inc., of Hartford,
Connecticut.

1923

At McCarruy has been practicing law in Miami,
Florida, since 1923. He is a member of the firm of
Twyman & McCarthy, his partner, Lewis Twyman,
also being a graduate of Washington and Lee.

W. K. TALiAFErRRO is with the Avery Salt Com-
pany, 601 American Bank Building, New Orleans,
Louisiana.

J. G. RaGSDALE is practicing law in El Dorado, Ar-
kansas. He is married and has two boys, nine and six,
already set to help the Generals when they grow up.

ALBERT C. Tipton is a lawyer in Elizabethton,
Tennessee.

1922

I’, A. (Frick) SUTHERLAND since leaving Wash-
ington and Lee has had four years in medical school
at Harvard, two years as surgical interne at the old New
York hospital, four years in surgery at Bellevue Hos-
pital, New York City, and the past two years on the
surgical staff of Yale Medical School.

B. H. (BERNIE) Hampton is a Methodist pastor
at Cumberland Gay, Virginia. He has a wife and two
daughters, five years old and two months old.

Rogert E. Brown had “the great experience” of
teaching and supervising a high school for three years,
then went to Louisville, Kentucky, where he took his
training for the Baptist ministry. He is now minister
in a church at Dunbarton, Virginia. He is a widower.

GrorGE S$. Riccs is married and has a little boy
two years old. He is with the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch, in the advertising department. Has been with
the paper about seven years. His address is 1600 Grove
Ave., Richmond, Virginia.

W. C. MEAp is a member of the firm of Mead, Ir-
vine & Co., investment securities, First National Bank
Building, Baltimore, Maryland.

W. B. HEssELTINE is a professor in the depart-
ment of history at the University of Wisconsin.

Dr. Harotp T. Gararp is an eye, ear, nose and
throat specialist in Lewisburg, West Virginia.

1921

Roy J. GRIMLEyY is practicing law in the Realty
Building, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

R. BrLatr PRICE is in the insurance business and
lives at Swarthmore, within a stone’s throw of Swarth-
more College.

J. Epwaxp Moy ter has been practicing law in
Franklin, Virginia, his home, since graduation. He was
married in 1927 and his future partner was born April
1, 1930.

JouN BELL is a member of the law firm of Knight,
Thompson and Turner of Tampa, Florida.

R. C. Woop is a lawyer with offices in the Peoples
National Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia.

1920

Henry S$. BAKER is assistant general manager of
sales of the Sharon Steel Hoop Company of Sharon,
Pennsylvania.

Tromas M. (Mac) Srusps is located in Atlanta,
Ga., with McDaniel, Neely & Marshall at 1040 Hurt
Building, practicing law. He attended Harvard law
school after leaving Washington and Lee and in 1924
married Beatrice Jefferson of Kentucky. He has three
sons who are all Washington and Lee prospects. ‘They
all know “The Swing” and are familiar with a large
photograph of the campus which he keeps hanging in
the dining room. He says that he sees Hope Starke at
Lawrenceville, Ga., occasionally, Bill Jeter and Jim
Hill in Jacksonville, Florida, and Bruce Woodruff and
Willis Everett in Atlanta. |

WILuiAMm E. JonHNson is with the American Sugar
Refining Company, 120 Wall Street, New York. He
taught school for two years at Front Royal, Virginia,
after leaving Lexington, and is now assistant sales
manager in the New York office. He is married and
has a boy eight and a girl three.

W. D. Morrison is located in Milledgeville, Geor-
gia, with the Conn Grocery Company. He taught school
at Milledgeville and also at Rome, Georgia. In 1921 he
married Ruth Conn of Milledgeville and they have two
sons, Bill and Otto, both of whom are good Washing-
ton and Lee prospects.

WituiAmM T. SPENCER is in the Peoples National
Bank Building, Lynchburg, Virginia, practicing law.
He is commonwealth’s attorney for the city and also
is doing some civil practice.

1919

Harry E. HANDLEY is a physician with offices in
the Fuller Building, 41 E. 57th St., New York, N. Y.

[.27 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

GrorGE WILSON lives in Lexington, Kentucky.

J. W. McKown is a member of the firm of Wolff
& McKown, Waynesboro, Pennsylvania.

Jesse W. Benton has been practicing law in Dan-
ville, Virginia, since leaving Washington and Lee. He
is a member of the firm of Aiken and Benton, with of-
fices in the Arcade building.

Rk. E. Moores, after spending seven years in India,
is teaching in the high school at Carson, Virginia.

JimMiE FAIn is president of the Morris Plan Bank,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He is married and
has two children.

1918

Ropert G. Ketiy, son of Lon H. Kelly, Washing-
ton and Lee, 93, former Democratic county chairman
and for the last two years Democratic state chairman.
Has practiced law in Charleston, West Virginia, for
eleven years. Member of the firm of Brown, Jackson
& Knight. Has three children, Robert Knight, Carol,
Sally. Says his only claim to fame lies in the fact that
he was campaign manager for Rocky Holt.

Homer A. (Rocky) Hott is attorney general of
the state of West Virginia.

DiLttarp EstEs, member of the law firm of Phil-
lips, Trammell, Schizum, Estes & Edwards, of Fort
Worth, Texas, takes exception to his class-agent’s ques-
tion “What are the other members of the class doing
as we approach old age?” Refuses to be included in
this classification—says he looks and feels like a fresh-
man and therefore respectfully declines to march in
the procession.

GLEN Evins is manager for the Lykes Brothers
insurance agency of Tampa, Florida.

Henry DILt is with the Pine Plume Lumber Com-
pany of Montgomery, Alabama. He is in the export
phase of the business and when he isn’t selling lumber
is at home on the farm. Says he is not a farmer, how-
ever, but an “agriculturist.””. (Note—An agriculturist
is one who makes his money in the city and spends it
in the country.) He was married in 1922 and has two
daughters, one seven and one eleven.

1917

T. Preston WHITE is practicing medicine at Char-
lotte, North Carolina. He married Hennie Tucker of
Lexington and they are frequently in Lexington with
their two children.

Bos Kane has moved his offices from Harrison,
New Jersey, to Camden. He is with R. C. A. Radiotron
Company, Inc.

Mitton Rocesrs is at 100 William Street, New
York: He is a loval and generous alumnus and keeps
in close touch with the University.

E. S. Smita lives in Kansas City, Missouri, at
1605 W. 37th St. He is married and has a son and
a daughter.

S. PALMER HarMon is practicing medicine at Mill-
boro, Virginia.

M. D. WILLIAMSON is in the business of selling
foreign and domestic veneers at Cockeysville, Mary-
land. However, he lives at 4510 Roland Ave., Balti-
more, and if you don’t believe there is such a place
as Cockeysville, you can address him there.

Nep Hrx is located at the focal point of many tour-
ist trails, but says it is surprising how few Washing-
ton and Lee men he comes in contact with. Should you
be “honeymooning” that way you can reach him at
4849 Terrace Drive, Niagara Falls, New York.

TREVOR JOHN PowELL has—'stuck to engineering
since the good old days and have been employed in
the Union county engineers’ office for the last fifteen
years, where I was the assistant county engineer in
charge of bridge design and construction, but have re-
cently been appointed county project engineer in charge
of all projects in this county under C. W. A.” He is
still a bachelor.

1916

TED SHULTz is with the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity at Knoxville, Tenn. He is married and has four
children, three girls and a boy.

F. StTanLEY Porver has been practicing law in Bal-
timore since graduation, with offices in the Calvert
Building. He is president of the Maryland Football

Officials Association.

EpMUND Mackrs is an assistant in the office of the
state auditor of Georgia, and has been connected with
the state for eight years. He was admitted to the bar,
but gave up the practice of law in 1917 to go into the
army. Served with the Rainbow Division until 1919.
On his return took up accounting and is now a certi-
fied public accountant. He is married and lives at 1494
Westwood avenue, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia.

1915

G. G. JoyNEs, JR., is assistant cashier of the First
National Bank of Onancock, Virginia.

[ 28 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

J. LAwrENCE Howerron has been with the Swann
Chemical Company of Anniston, Alabama, since 1925.
He is married and has a candidate for the class of 1950,
or thereabouts. Lawrence and his wife competed in the
grand national tournament of the United States Bridge
Association in New York last January, but met their
Waterloo in a team composed of Ely Culbertson, Theo-
dore Lightner, Albert Morehead and Sam Fry.

Harvey B. KAcuHEL, since leaving Washington and
Lee, has been a farmer, a teacher, a steel and iron
worker, a baker, a salesman, and at present is a post
office clerk in Reading, Pennsylvania. He is married
and has three daughters ranging from sixteen to nine-
teen years of age and a son about one year old. As a
sideline Mr. Kachel is interested in a literary career.
The short story is his hobby. He would like to get in
touch with alumni who are similarly interested.

GrorcE BEN LAMPTON is with the Lampton Com-
pany, wholesale and retail merchants in Columbia, Miss-
issippi.

Lorinc C. KACKLEy is practicing law at Berry-
ville, Virginia.

E. S. MARSHALL is with the Continental Can Com-
pany, 100 East 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

GrorcE EF. Morrison is vice-president of Rodgers
& Company, Cotton Merchants, Norfolk, Virginia.

1913

Rev. H. S. Corrty, of Keyser, West Virginia, has
held pastorates in Fairfield, Elkton, Roanoke and
Woodstock in Virginia. He is president of the Keyser
Ministerium and the Keyser Rotary Club; is married
and has a family of four children. His oldest girl is a
senior in high school and his two boys are planning to
enter Washington and Lee.

Joun L. CARMICHAEL lives in Enterprise, Ala-
bama; has a warm spot in his heart for Washington
and lee and the good times he had here.

MortimEér W. SmiruH is chief engineer with the
West Virginia state road commission, at Charleston.

Howarp L,. Ropinson, member of the law firm of
Robinson & Robinson, Union National Bank Building,
Clarksburg, West Virginia, has been in Lexington only
once since he graduated. He is United States attorney
for the northern district of West Virginia.

Ceci: H. LICHLITER, since returning from over-
seas service, has been practicing law in Jacksonville,

Florida. He is a member of the law firm of Fleming,
Hamilton, Diver, and Lichliter, in the Barnett Na-
tional Bank Building.

Tuomas F. WALKER says: “When Liberty Hall
Academy was founded at Timber Ridge, near Lexing-
ton, one of my ancestors, Major Alexander Stuart, do-
nated 40 acres of land to the school, which later became
Washington and Lee University. If he gave it the
40 acres of land, maybe some day I will be able to give
it the mule. I not only frequently think of Washing-
ton and Lee affectionately, but I frequently pass
through Lexington and am continually meeting my
classmates, who are numerous in this part of the coun-
try.” He is practicing law in Wytheville, Virginia.

Henry B. Goopoe has been practicing law for the
past four years in Albemarle county with offices at
Crozet, Virginia. He has been particularly busy in con-
nection with the various loan agencies of the federal
government. Calls attention to the fact that the gover-
nor, lieutenant governor, attorney general, two mem-
bers of the Virginia Supreme court, the motor vehicle
commissioner and the chairman of the alchoholic con-
trol board are all Washington and Lee men.

Paut W. PICKERING is secretary of the Illinois
Casualty Company in Springfield, Illinois.

Paut C. Rocers is farming and engineering at
Nassawadox, Virginia.

G. M. Warp is assistant superintendent of schools
in Batesville, Arkansas.

Bertin KR. LEMON is secretary-treasurer of the
Apartment Hotel Corporation, and owner and man-
ager of the Arlington Hotel at Lynchburg, Virginia.

HENLEY F. Day has been practicing law in Blue-
field, West Virginia, for twenty years. He says that
in this period he has accumulated “one canary, three
cats, a lot of debts and a wife and three children.”

CLiFFoRD BurpbeETrrE Foster, LL.B., is  asso-
ciated with The Commercial Appeal, “The South’s
Greatest Newspaper,” in Memphis, Tennessee, in the
circulation department. After serving three months out
in the territory he has moved into the main office at
Memphis. He likes the work and finds it interesting.
He has a wife and small son.

Pau C. Burorp, JRr., is a member of the firm of
Hall, Buford and Leftwich, lawyers, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. E. YonGE is a lawyer with offices in the First
Trust and Savings Bank Building, Miami, Florida. He

[ 29 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

has a wife and a son, two and a half years old. His
special interest is aviation.

Epwarp S. DELAPLAINE, attorney at law, Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia, would like to see a closer contact
formed among the members of his class.

1912

WittiAmM J. Wixtcox recently resigned from his
position in the legal department of Pennsylvania Power
and Light Company at Allentown, Pennsylvania, and
entered into a newly-formed partnership under the
name of Snyder, Wert & Wilcox. The firm has of-
fices at 510 Hamilton St., Allentown.

WILLIAM MILLER is a Presbyterian missionary at
Teheran, Persia.

Byron L. BALLARD is a member of the law firm of
Shields, Silsbee, Ballard & Jennings in the Olds Tower
Building, Lansing, Michigan. He has a daughter who
was graduated from high school this year and a son
who will enter Washington and Lee in a few years.

Jim SOMERVILLE is stiJl connected with the Office
of the Commercial Attache, Bush House, London,
England.

1911

KE. E. ABraAms, JRr., is a member of the firm of the
Diamond Motors Company, of Butler, Pa. He is also
actively engaged in the office equipment and _ printing
business.

J. O. Prentiss of San Benito, Texas, writes: “At
the time I attended Washington and Lee there were
only ten or twelve Texans and we were looked upon
as desperadoes and gunmen. In the gymnasium no one
cared to box or wrestle with a Texas friend and my-
self because they were afraid we would get angry and
do something rash. Then again we would never get
forgiveness for the terrible Texas yarns we told.” He
has been practicing law in the same firm for eighteen
years.

Ropert A. Russe. says: “Nothing of special in-
terest has happened to me since June, 1911. During all
this time I have practiced law in my old home county,
lived at the same boarding house, been a member of
the House of Delegates and Virginia Senate, and com-
monwealth’s attorney of the county, each under a four-
year sentence. I am out of office now and still single.”

Recrnav J. B. Pace after receiving his law degree
from Washington and Lee returned to his home in Nor-
folk, Virginia and formed a law partnership with his

father and brother under the name of Page, Page &
Page. This association continued for twenty-one years.

. He is now judge of the City Court of the city of Nor-

folk. He is married and has a son twenty years old in
his first year at the United States Military Academy
at West Point; and a girl 17, who is a senior at Maury
High school in Norfolk. He says he has lived in a
“sportsman’s paradise” and has taken full advantage
of every opportunity to enjoy the “unsurpassed” duck
hunting afforded by back bay in Virginia and the ad-
joining county of Currituck in North Carolina.

W. R. L. Taytor was re-elected for a four-year
term beginning September 1, 1934, and was upon or-
ganization of the new council, re-elected mayor of the
city of Norfolk, Virginia.

1910

GAyLorp J. STONE is with the Universal Mills,
Fort Worth, Texas. They make Golden Chain flour.

Wicsur L. TitpEN is a member of the firm of
Tilden and Hays, attorneys and counsellors at law,
Orlando, Florida. He has a wife and two daughters.

Joun H. Tucker, Jr., after leaving Washington
and Lee, lived at Pine Bluff, Arkansas, for five years,
and then studied law at the Louisiana State Univer-
sity; was in the war almost two and a half years; was
in France and completed his service in northern Rus-
sia as an aide to Brigadier General W. P. Richardson,
who had command of the American forces in Northern
Russia. His other aide was Sam A. Honaker of the
class of ’11, and Jim Somerville was with the Y. M.
C. A. He is a member of the law firm of Tucker &
Mason of Shreveport, Louisiana.

1908

Puitip P. Pace is connected with the Chicago
Journal of Commerce, with offices at 12 East Grand
Avenue, Chicago. He was present at the alumni organ-
ization meeting in Chicago.

“ABE” STAPLES is attorney general of Virginia and
commutes between Roanoke and Richmond.

T. Russety CaTHer is practicing law in Winches-
ter, Virginia.

C. L. GreEN is teaching in the Maxton Public
Schools, Maxton, North Carolina.

Epwin C, Carrrey is judge of the New Jersey
Circuit Court, Hackensack, New Jersey.

ee!

S. M. B. Guisetin is a Presbyterian minister in
Roanoke, Virginia.

| 30 |

pa DM hi ee i,

i eine tie i

 

ae a

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

SorsByY JEMISON is assistant vice-president of the
Young & Vann Supply Company, industrial supplies
and heavy hardware, Birmingham, Alabama.

1907

W. L. Lorp is teaching at Woodberry Forest School,
Woodberry Forest, Virginia.

H. W. MILLER is a member of the department of
mechanism and engineering drawing at the University
of Michigan. He was present at the Detroit alumni
meeting in May and met some classmates whom he had
not known were in his vicinity. He would like to get
in touch with some of his classmates, especially those
of the engineering department.

T. O. BaGLEy is with the Home Insurance Com-
pany of New York in Fayetteville, Tennessee. He has
a son at Culver.

1906

Henry C. TILLMAN is in the law firm of Sutton,
Tillman & Revees, Wallace S. Building, Tampa, Florida.

H. CLaubE Posst is practicing law in Grundy, Vir-
ginia.

J. F. Cuarvton says that everybody comes to Mi-
ami these days, and he will be glad to see any alumni
coming that way. He is a member of the firm of J. F.
Charlton & Associates, engineers and architects, Fort
Lauderdale, Florida.

W. F. SEMPLE is an attorney at law, Atlas Life
Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1905

J. D. Hospi, Jr., is the proprietor of the Hobbie
Brothers Company, Inc., music store, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. He has a son in his second year in the Uni-
versity.

J. F. Cartron has “followed engineering” since
leaving Washington and Lee and has lived in a num-
ber of states but mostly in Georgia, his old home, and
Florida, his adopted one. He married a Georgia girl
in 1915 and has three children.

1904

D. W. Van DEVANTER is with the New Mexico
Public Utilities Corporation of Gallup, New Mexico.

R. D. THompson is with the trust department of
the First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond,
Virginia.

G. Murray SMITH is an attorney at law in Rich-
mond, Kentucky.

W. G. Rippick is a member of the law firm of
Coleman and Riddick, Boyle Building, Little Rock,
Arkansas.

M. T. McCvure is acting dean of the University
of Illinois College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Ur-
bana, Illinois.

E. W. PoInDEXTER is a member of the law firm of
Poindexter and Poindexter, with offices in the Shenan-
doah Life Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1903

James A. PArKs is an attorney at law, located in
Clinton, Missouri.

1899

Hucu W. Kirkpatrick is special agent for the
Atlas Assurance Company, Limited, with offices in the
Mutual Building, Richmond, Virginia.

JAmes L. Morrison of Hazard, Kentucky, has a
son who will graduate from Washington and Lee in ’36.

JAMES MULLEN is a member of the law firm of
Williams, Mullen and Hazelgrove, with offices in the
American Bank Building, Richmond, Virginia.

1898

STEPHEN C. Harris occasionally meets a Washing-
ton and Lee man of his time and speaks of enthusiasm
of these meetings, recalling especially such meetings
with Ed Wilson, Lee Miller and William L. Doolan.

1897

Ep WouLWENDER is a member of the law firm of
Wohlwender and Calhoun, Columbus, Georgia.

S. Rurrin Horne is a member of the firm of H.
R. Horne & Sons, Pharmacists, Fayetteville, North
Carolina.

T. H. Weep is with the state highway department
of Texas and is located at Austin.

1896

Stockton Hern TyLer is chairman of the Vir-
ginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. He writes as
follows: “I believe that there is an atmosphere at
Washington and Lee which is not obtained at any other
institution in this country. It is more like the atmos-
phere at Oxford and Cambridge and Heidelburg, ex-

[ 31 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

cept it is different even from these great institutions.
Dr. Gaines has evidently felt its influence coming down
from General Lee. He, in turn, was evidently affected
by the spirit of Washington, and perhaps Washington
got it from old Liberty Hall. At any rate it bears the
aroma of antiquity, and it certainly leaves its influence
on those who were fortunate enough to attend. I am
glad to help uphold Dr. Gaines and give other young
men the opportunity of having the privilege of coming
under the influence of this great University under one
who has so capably guided its affairs.”

1894

Hucu M. BLAIN is service representative for the
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, with
offices in the Hibernia Bank Building, New Orleans,
Louisiana. He also teaches some classes in journalism
at Loyola College, New Orleans.

1891

JosreruH A. GLAscow is judge of the Eighteenth Ju-
dicial Circuit. His home is in Staunton, Virginia.

J. M. Bosstkux is collector of city taxes, Rich-
mond, Virginia. He recalls that instead of 194 miles
from Richmond to Lexington, as it was in 1891, it is
now 134, and instead of from eight o’clock until six on
the train, it is now four hours by automobile.

In Memoriam

LEE Pretrtow Ho.tvanp, A. B., 1906, LL. B., 1909,
died in Suffolk, Virginia, November 27, 1934. Born
September 2, 1885, he received his early training in the
Suffolk schools, attended Washington and Lee, 1903-
1909, and immediately entered the practice of law in
his father’s firm in Suffolk. He was a member of the

Delta Tau Delta fraternity, and of Phi Delta Phi. He
served 18 months in the World War.

In the death of this alumnus, Washington and Lee
has lost one of her most useful and popular sons. His
great love for his Alma Mater was evidenced in many
acts of service and devotion, but especially in his work
as class-agent for 1906, for the past two years. During
the whole of the campaign of last year he “carried on”’
from a hospital bed, making no mention of this fact in
his letters, which were as full of enthusiasm and friend-
liness as if he had been in perfect health.

Births

Mr. and Mrs. W. E. R. Byrne, 1930, announce the
birth of a daughter, Frances Marion, on November

10, 1934.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Braxton Dew, LL.B., 1921,
Counsel for Aetna Casualty and Surety Company, of

Hartford, Connecticut, a daughter, Judith Bland, No-
vember, 1934.

JAMES HunTER DorMAN, 1930, was married to
Miss Ethel Carter Calogne on December 10, 1934, in
New Orleans, Louisiana.

Marriages

Wituiam Hitt Brown, Jr., LL.B., 1926, was mar-
ried to Miss Charlotte Stuart Tiffany on November 10,
1934, in Manassas, Virginia.

ETHELBERT HENRY Evans, 1933, was married to
Miss Julia Fairlie Gunter on November 28, 1934, in
Montgomery, Alabama.

Artuour M. Hetrat, B.A., 1932, of New York,
was married to Miss Beatrice Reisner in November.

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

 

[ 32 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affordine a convenient guide to Washineton and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions wko by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
Counsellor-at-Law 1909
Attorney-at-Law
100 William Street Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building New Zore Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi e Lynchburg, Virginia
o E. C. Caffrey 2
1909
Court House
Philip P. Gibson Hackensack, N. J. John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910
Attorney-at-Law
@ Tucker and Mason

Marcum and Gibson

Law Offices
First National Bank Building Carlton D. Dethlefsen EEE ste
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Huntington, W. Va. Attorney-at-Law Shreveport, Louisiana

Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.

14 Montgomery Street
e San Francisco, California #
Elwood H. Seal e
wo - oea Edmund D. Campbell
Seal and Dice Woodruff and Ward eae
General practice in the courts of Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916 Attorney-at-Law
the District of Columbia and Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930 Douzlass, Obear, Morgan and
Federal Departments t ; ;
Bi cab i 7h Attorneys-at-Law Campbell
Associate Inc > Tax Specialists ie
Be ee ne ee 928 Healey Building Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Atlanta, Georgia Washington, D. C.

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia.

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

Here's the way | write

Chesterfield —

© 1935, LiGGetTT & Myers TOBACCO Co.

 

