1Tle

i Magaz

The

Alumn

iversl

Washington and Lee Un

July, 1939

thy’

 

     

ee

   

AER

 

 

ae Leia

¢
:
i
‘+

 

 

fe... =
-¢ “7 a

et

 

; j - a ats .. ‘
i + * . ‘,? - 2

Pe ; ee tab . 2 ¥
c - ; ae : ; a,
f ¢ ‘ ta *
> ; m - ”
oe . ‘ \ * 7
: £ a wae
: - , “
. ’ ont Ae s
_— ‘ > 2 ty : -

s * + —- doa,

»
*

 

‘

ark Le
Pe
‘

a
le
ie

Daren cay lt
.
.
.

 

 

 

. ‘ ‘
* . . ws - i.
, - >
‘
? - a
*
:
. 4 ;
: $
:
.
; 7 : j < ee
‘ : ; ‘ é Rint We 3
-_ . q 2 tal 7
; ’
v. .
z a
3 °
ft
\
' ;
‘
-* /
- *
- : e =
t
4 -e
.
; .
‘
. - 7 .
ws
7 > a . «
. .
$ ,
*
“ « A
, ~
e >
‘ a .
J x
. *
a «
. * bs 4 ‘-
y . ‘a ' :
en a . . a \ +
- + Dn -
* Ps . ’ *
‘ f , 4 <
a ‘ a 7 . e
é ea : " -
i ak ee : ‘ ?
, a Se, e ,
A. + Zia rai2 ha
pM Ste pta7 ate. ee
A ; . : a
‘ “49 5 ‘
: : ey ¢ a
4 - > ms ona
. 4 * 5% c ‘ * |
y ‘ a *
J ye? .
<* ™ * ¢ * . s
» - *
: : .
5 4 5 P 7
‘ , :
-
\
, .
4 -
oe ci
ni ‘
<4 “oh \
4 a. |
fy
‘
* ‘> é
vé * 7 4 :
* ¥ . e* « /
. * =
‘ ‘ b "
7 , , ;
f
: ; ; 7 i
. \ ‘ A ;
Sys “a ; -
4 - 6 a +4 —
<5 - . * a ’
ai ‘ “ 7 :

 

 

 

Appalachian

Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee

Arkansas
James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.

Atlanta, Georgia
Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building

Baltimore, Maryland
A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road

Birmingham, Alabama
W. L. Hoge, 306 Court House

Charleston, West Virginia
John H. Thomas, Security Building

Chicago, Illinois
W. F. Symonds, care of W. D. Allen Company

Cincliakiael Ohio
Roger J. Bear, Executive Offices Kroger & Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court

Cumberland Valley
C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.

Dallas, Texas

James M. Faulkner, Liberty Bank Building
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Charles Wilson
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast
H. P. Macfarlane, Maas Building, Tampa, Fla.

Gulf Stream
Lewis Twyman, 999 S. W. First St., Miami,
Florida

Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey

Louisville, Kentucky
Robert T. Foree, 207 E. Broadway

Memphis, Tennessee
J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building

New York, New York
Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmour Dufor, Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
Parkersburg, West Virginia

. B. Pennybacker

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street

Piedmont
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.

Richmond, Virginia
Dr. R. Ww. Fowlkes, Professional Building

Roanoke, Virginia
Ear! A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Rockingham County

. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.

seal Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los
Angeles, California

St. Louis, Missouri

E. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State

J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.

Upper-Potomac
L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.

Washington, aoe. Ge

. W. Hynson, American Security Building

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

 

Vol. XIV JULY 1939 No. 5
BO Rees Harry K. (Cy) Young, 1917
Managing Editor............ RicHArD P. CarTEr, 1929

a

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Prenaent.. (oi ick. JosEpH T. LyKeEs, 1909
SOCTELALY......0....0c0000- Harry K.(Cy) Youne, 1917
Team ee oa Stuart Moores, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

W. Carrot MEaApE, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
Joun Bett Tow1rLt, 1929
Dr. RicHarp Fow kes, 1915
J. R. NEAL, 1915

 

Contents for July 1939

PAGE
Hope for Youth? (President’s Page) ...........:......:..0.cecclesceee 3
Teeter © 190th Finale... ee... 5
The Queen Is Kin to Washington and Lee.............00............... 7
Washington and Lee Plates by Wedgwood.............................. 9
en. BO IOVS | WIRES. pec chie sis dans acess sutiaredtiad-+0-0.0.. 11
aM CMOS O82 SSIDOFES (50.5 ca sedi gie sve, scl ddvas, dat dbetetabe sso 0 cece 13
Notes on Meeting of Ajummni, Ine. ...000.000000 0.0... 33 jest 2 17
Cy Young, Now Full-Time Alumni Secretary.................. aa 19

NaN Ze Sete ste Oa ee Nas ek 21

iversity

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee Un

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Hope for Youth?

(The President's Page)

N a charming autobiography, Edna Ferber remarks
that this is the first time in history that middle-aged
or older people do not envy youth. Formerly those of

us in the advanced stages of life were accustomed to look
wistfully at younger contemporaries and say, “They
have everything before them.” Now we look
somewhat uncertainly and say, ‘““What is be-

fore them ?”
* * x

If this statement is true, it is the most de-
vastating indictment to be brought against our
civilization; undoubtedly there is enough of
truth in it to arrest the attention of us all, par-
ticularly of those whose work is in the field of

education.
*k «x x

It is not necessary to share the pessimism
of the gloomy spirits who believe that man’s insanities
are about to destroy the world he himself has created, or
even to believe that things are getting materially worse,
in order to feel reasonably sure that youth of today goes
forth into a troubled era and probably into an unpredict-

able destiny.
ee

It has for its comfort, however, certain resources
that other generations did not know. For one thing, to-
day's young people have a more complete analysis of the
fundamental causes of the world’s dilemma than any
other group has had. This is not to say that diagnosis will
necessarily guarantee cure; but the wisdom of our day
has at least indicated that certain unpleasant situations
are the result of definite causes and not the elements in
the cycle of a hideous necessity. Today’s youth has also
a few gleams of light that no other generation has seen
so clearly. There have been those whose voices may yet be
heard that have understood what must be done in order
to make a secure world instead of a vicious and self-
destructive one. There is in the heart of man today more
troubling of conscience about international wrong than
was common in the generations just gone.

* K a

We must not minimize this power of the conscience
of man. Slowly and almost imperceptibly it has moved
from one social evil to another, gradually forcing some

[3]

 

kind of happier adjustment, and now it has turned as
never before to those problems of relationships between
the huge units of our common family.

* * *

Education that is to be serviceable for this generation
of youth will, of course, be as explicit as pos-
sible about these matters of the causes of war,
the points of view arising from the long heritage
of different nations, the balance between priv-
ilege and underprivilege of peoples as well as
of individuals. But in the larger mode the most
helpful education will be most effective in so
far as it enforces certain ideals.

*x* *«* *

It will not be possible to diagnose every
cause, or to draw the quicker responding senti-
ment around the circumference of the world
to reach every problem or every need. Education may,
however, align human life with such ideals that these
problems and these needs as they arise through passing
years will appear in true perspective and will prove in-
centives to adequate action. They are the simple ideals,
the enduring ideals, that cry out for new emphasis. Hon-
esty and kindness and a certain measure of selflessness
are today, as they have always been, the true solvents in
which the swiftly changing irrritations may be dissolved.
We come back again to the definition of the prophet of
old “to deal justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly.”

* -* *

We like to believe that Washington and Lee offers, in
addition to its formal instruction and its mental disci-
plines, things of the spirit which make possible an under-
standing of these ideals and a devotion to them. The
honor system, the mode of friendliness, the true democ-
racy of kindness—these are the manifestations on this
campus of an attitude toward ideals; and this manifesta-
tion, we fervently hope, will be strong and expansive. For
such youth there should be no occasion for despair.

Mae.

President

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Bill Dickey, 1910, in earnest conversation with Bill Dela-
plaine, 1909; Pop Ainsworth, 1911, and L. J. Boxley, 1909,
standing by; 2. Jimmie Caskie, 1906, greets fellow-alumnus
while Arthur McCain, 1914, Bob Ramsey, 1912, Tom Kirk-
patrick, 1913, and Harrington Waddell, 1893, pose for the
camera; 3. Three interested alumni, Reynolds Vance, 1892,
Bill McElwee, 1879, Dr. S. C. Lind, 1899, with Dr. Howe;

 

4. Heartsill Ragon, 1908, and Bernie Harper, 1913, were
among several alumni from Arkansas who enjoyed the fes-
tivities; 5. Earl Paxton, 1908, passes the camera as Steve
Chadwick, 1914, The National Commander of the American
Legion, and Ben Haden, 1913, pose for their picture. In the
background Martin Burks, III, 1932, chats with Mrs. Forest
Fletcher.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The University’s 190th Finals

their degrees at Washington and Lee University’s
190th commencement exercises June 9.

Four students won the degree of master of arts; one,
master of science ; thirty-four, bachelor of laws; one hun-
dred and two, bachelor of arts; eight, bachelor of science ;
and forty, bachelor of science in commerce.

Honorary degrees were given two alumni. Dr. Sam-
uel C. Lind, 1899, president of the American Chemical
Society and dean of the Institute of Technology, Univer-
sity of Minnesota, was awarded the degree of doctor of
science. The degree was voted him last year but was not
conferred then because of Dr .Lind’s absence in Europe.
The Rev. Harry S. Coffey, 1912, pastor of the Metho-
dist Church of Covington, Virginia, was awarded the de-
gree of doctor of divinity.

Ge HUNDRED and eighty-nine seniors were awarded

Washington and Lee recognized the centennial of the
Virginia Military Institute by conferring degrees upon
three members of the staff of V. M. I. at the commence-
ment exercises, which were held in Lee Chapel in accord-
ance with a long-established custom. The V. M. I. men
honored were General Charles E,. Kilbourne, superinten-
dent of V. M. I., doctor of laws; Colonel Hunter Pendle-
ton, professor emeritus of chemistry, doctor of laws; and
Colonel Francis Mallory, professor of phyhics, doctor of
science.

In conferring these three degrees Dr. Gaines said:

“Mindful of the centennial of our sister institution,
Washington and Lee is happy to be able to honor three
men who have been identified with the Institute in various
connections for many years, who incarnate the fine
achievements of that institution, and who are universally
beloved by its great circle of alumni and friends. At the
same time, the awarding of these degrees is definitely on
the basis of the individual distinction of the men them-
selves.”

In his address to the graduates, Dr. Gaines urged
them to keep in touch with their Alma Mater, and “come
back to see us.” He told the class that when personal con-
tacts with the University were not possible, comfort could
be found in recalling the ideals for which the University
stands.

The graduates were welcomed into the alumni asso-
ciation by Alumni President Lykes, and many of them at-
tended the alumni luncheon and general alumni associa-
tion meeting following the commencement program.

The commencement program was the highlight of the
last day of the 190th finals, which started officially with
the baccalaureate sermon by Dr. William Elliott, Jr., of
Atlanta, Georgia, on June 4.

The Interfraternity Ball was held Wednesday eve-
ning, June 7, with Will Osborne and his orchestra play-
ing; the Senior-Alumni Ball was staged Thursday eve-
ning, with Hal Kemp playing; and the traditional all-
night ‘inal Ball, with Gene Krupa playing, brought the
full program to a close.

‘ys
hose awarded degrees were :

Master of Arts—D. H. Miller, Hagerstown, Md.; E.
J. Milligan, Danville, N. Y.; J. R. Nicholson, Spangler,
Pa.; kK. A. Smyth, Lexington, Va.

Master of Science—l,. D. Williams, Jr., Elizabeth,
New Jersey.

Bachelor of Laws—V. C. Adamson, Garden City,
N. Y.; W. S. Ammerman, Jr., Cynthiana, Ky.; R. W.
Bain, Portsmouth, Va.; J. A. Ballard, Exmore, Va.; J.
W. Beaire, Charleston, W. Va.; J. V. Beale, Franklin,
Va.; EK. T. Cannon, Timmonsville, S. C.: L. J. DeVita,
Stamford, Conn.; D. A. Fallat, Yonkers, N. Y.: A. Fos-
ter, State College, Pa.; P. M. Grabill, Woodstock, Va. :
J. L. Hawkins, II, Charleston, W. Va.; J. D. Head, Fort
Worth, Texas; R. L,. Howell, Roanoke, Va.: R. F. Hut-
cheson, Jr., Charlotte Courthouse, Va.; S$. G. Jones, Jr.,
Norfolk, Va.; J. A. MacKenzie, Portsmouth, Va.: A. R.
Marcum, Huntington, W. Va.; R. W. Mills, Roanoke,
Virginia.

J.C. Murphy, South Orange, N. J.; S. G. Patterson,
Kansas City, Mo.; J. B. Pearson, Hartford, Conn.; W.
W. Perkins, Atlanta, Ga.; J. E. Quisenberry, Roanoke,
Va.; J. P. Rogers, Wheeling, W. Va.; A. A. Rucker,
Bedford, Va.; E. L. Smith, Hinton, W. Va.: G. W.
Swift, Lake Charles, La.; E. T. Whitehead, Chatham,
Va.; T. A. Williams, Jr., Richmond, Va.; W. F. Wood-
ward, Louisville, Ky.; W. E. York, Huntington, W. Va.;
W. A. Young, III, Huntsville, Ala.; C. J. Yudkoff, New
York, N. Y.

Bachelor of Arts—H. C. Alford, Jr., Elmore, Ala. ;
A. W. Archer, Jr., Kansas City, Mo.; W. H. Baldock,
III, Lynchburg, Va. ; F. Bartenstein, Jr., The Plains, Va.:
A. E. Basile, Brooklyn, N. Y.; W. A. Beeton, Lexing-
ton, Va.; C. E. Bowles, Jr., Pulaski, Va.; A. M. Brom-
bacher, West Palm Beach, Fla.; R. A. Brower, Cincin-
nati, Ohio; W. W. Brown, Toledo, Ohio; T. R. Bryant,

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Roanoke, Va.: E. F. Burrows, Oswego, S. C.; T. W.
Christopher, Union, S. C.; T. R. Cleek, Staunton, Va.

R. E. Clements, Jr., Larchmont, N. Y.; A. N. Cole,
Jr., Flushing, N. Y.; R. M. Cox, Nashua, N. H.; H. B.
Crane, Jr., Hinsdale, Ill.; M. E. Cruser, Jr., Norfolk,
Va.; A. E. Davis, Jr., Baldwin, N. Y.; J. J. Davis, Louis-
ville, Ky.; W. T. Delaplaine, III, Frederick, Md.; H. T.
Dickinson, Little Rock, Ark.; R. L. Early, Jr., Cincin-
nati, Ohio; W. H. Edwards, Orlando, Fla.; H. L. Fen-
ton, Jr., Waterbury, Conn.; J. W. Fishel, New York,
N. Y.; F. W. Foreman, Elizabeth, N. J.

G. B. Frank, Chicago, Ill.; V. A. Funk, Jr., Vin-
cennes, Ind.; J. F. Ganong, Sausalito, Calif.; Z. H. Gar-
field, Norfolk, Va.; D. N. Garver, Lorain, Ohio; G. E.
Goodwin, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; W. W. Grover, Jr., Norfolk,
Va.: C. L. Guthrie, Petersburg, Va.; H. L. Handley,
Omaha, Neb.; H. E. Harvey, Brooklyn, N. Y.; G. Hiers,
New York, N. Y.; W. R. Hogan, Jr., Mt. Pleasant,
Mich.; A. B. Hobbes, Jacksonville, Fla.; R. F. Holden,
Charleston, West Va.; D. D. Houghton, Mount Lakes,
N. J.; N. T. Houston, Carrollton, Mo.; J. R. Howard,
Gary, West Va.; E. H. Hulsey, Jr., Dallas, Lex.: WA.
Jenks, Jacksonville, Fla.; R. L. Jones, Lula, Miss.; C.
Keller, Jr., Highland Park, Ill.; S. E. Kerkow, Coving-
ton, Ky.; W. P. Kesel, Jr., Valley Stream, N. ¥¢ Wes oH.
Kibler, Jr., Quicksburg, Va.; J. L. Lamb, Jr., Media, Pa.;
P. E. Lavietes, Brooklyn, N. Y.; B. R. Lawton, Wash-

ington, D. C.; A. M. Loeb, Meridian, Miss. ; G. F. Mc-

Inerney, Bayport, N. Y.; J. S. Mehler, Waynesboro, Va. ;
G. W. Merritt, Buena Vista, Va.; A. V. Mills, Jr., Lit-
tle Falls, N. J.; T. W. Moses, Pittsburgh, Pa.; C. E.
Mottesheard, Charleston, West Va.; J. E. Murphy, Bat-
tle Creek, Mich.; R. A. Nicholson, Wheaton, Ill.; F. B.
O’Connor, New London, Conn.; R. L. Odell, Clifton,
N. J.; P. R. Ogden, Cocoa, Fla.; J. A. Parkins, Dicker-
son, Md.; R. S. Parrish, Paris, Ky.; T. S. Parrott, New-
nan, Ga.; V. F. Radcliffe, Elizabeth, N. J.; H. H. Ragon,
Jr., Fort Smith, Ark.

D. B. Remmers, St. Louis, Mo.; M. A. Rippe, Dan-
ville, Va.; J. R. Robinson, St. Louis, Mo.; F. P. M. Roth,
Miami Beach, Fla.; J. A. Saltsman, Washington, D. C. ;
R. P. Schlabach, Jr., Newport News, Va.; H. M.
Schriver, Cincinnati, Ohio; W. T. Shafer, Oberlin, Ohio;
E. F. Shannon, Jr., Lexington, Va.; J. H. Sherrill, Jr.,
Pensacola, Fla.; H. C. Sigvartsen, Grantwood, N. J.; R.
D. Sloan, Clarksburg, West Va.; G. N. Smith, Jr., Rich-
mond, Ky.; V. A. Snow, Jr., Man, West Va.; A. R.
Sphar, Winchester, Ky.; J. A. R. Stewart, Independence,
Kans.; J. R. Sutherland, Coldwater, Mich.; M. J. Swan,
Jr., Evanston, Ill.; C. W. Taylor, Lynchburg, Va.; T. N.
Tennant, Hammond, Ind.; H. R. Thompson, Jr., Clifton
Forge, Va.; C. D. Tolley, Lexington, Va.; J. H. Ward,

III, Louisville, Ky.; T. P. Waring, Savannah, Ga.; R. J.
Watt, Jr., Glencoe, Ill.; H. W. H. Weidmann, Belleville,
Ill.; S. R. Weinsier, Brooklyn, N. Y.; B. E. Wilson,
Greensboro, N. C.; G. W. Wilson, Alpena, Mich.; P. K.
Yonge, Pensacola, Fla.

Bachelor of Science—W. G. Derr, Marietta, Ohio; J.
B. Furr, Picayune, Miss.; G. C. Graff, Lynchburg, Va. ;
S. B. Harper, Jr., Fort Smith, Ark.; A. R. Larrick, Jr.,
Plant City, Fla.; C. Steenbergen, Point Pleasant, West
Va.; A. P. Stuart, Buena Vista, Va.; G. L. A. Webb,
Webb, Miss.

Bachelor of Science in Commerce—H. P. Avery, Buf-
falo, N. Y.; E. A. Basse, San Antonio, Texas; A. R.
Bassett, Jacksonville, Fla.; G. M. Bohman, Hagerstown,
Md.; T. W. Bradley, Jr., Bristol, Va.; A. E. Buck, Jr.,
Darien, Conn. ; J. F. Coffey, Lexington, Va.; R. T. Craw-
ford, Decatur, Ill.; J. S. Crowder, Washington, D. C.;
R. M. Duncan, Caldwell, N. J.; C. G. Gilmore, Elizabeth,
N. J.; F. O. Glenn, Jr., Brooklyn, N. Y.; F. M. Han-
kins, Jr., Bridgeton, N. J.; R. S. Harris, Fredericksburg,
Va.; C. R. Hart, New York, N. Y.; H. P. Henshaw, Jr.,
Huntington, West Va.; P. L. Holden, Jr., Cleveland
Heights, Ohio; M. 'T. Howard, Oroya, Peru; S$. T. Jones,
Jr., Sweetwater, Tenn.; J. R. Kateley, North Adams,
Mass.; A. R. Kreimer, Cincinnati, Ohio; C. D. Lowrie,
New York, New York; C. P. Lykes, Houston, Texas; C.
W. Midelburg, Charleston, West Va.; G. T. Myers,
Frederick, Md.; A. E. Neilsen, Engelwood, N. J.; W. U.
O’Ferrall, Birmingham, Ala.; J. C. Paera, Camden, N. J.;
H. E. Redenbaugh, Pittsburgh, Pa.; R. D. Rouse, New-
port News, Va.; W. K. Self, Marks, Miss.; C. H. Sem-
ple, Jr., Louisville, Ky.; H. C. Sigvartsen, Grantwood,
N. J.; R. H. Smith, Charleston, West Va.; A. T. Snyder,
Glenside, Pa.; R. P. Southworth, Minneapolis, Minn. ; R.
S. Thompson, Jr., Bluefield, West Va.; E. H. Thuran,
Cleveland Heights, Ohio; B. M. Trotter, Jr., Norfolk,
Va.; G. H. Vanta, Bayside, N. Y.

 

H. C. Harrison, of Rutland, Vermont, B.S. 1931, re-
ceived his Ph.D. from Cornell in 1938, and is now a mem-
ber of the faculty of the College of Ceramics of that in-
stitution. He was to read a paper on “Some Applications
of the Spectograph to Ceramic Problems” at the Seventh
Annual Spectographic Conference at M. I. T. in July.

 

HERBERT DOLLAHITE, II, class of 1932, has been
named assistant manager of the Rangeley Lake Hotel at
Rangeley Lakes, Maine.

 

Juttian H. Brack, class of 1930, has opened law of-
fices at 622 Hamilton National Bank Building, Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee.

[6]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Queen Is Kin to Washington and Lee!

(Reprinted by permission from the New York Times of June 15, 1939)

UEEN ELIZABETH of Great Britain was revealed yes-

terday as having American colonial ancestors, stem-
ming from a line that made her a second cousin, six gen-
erations removed, of George Washington, and a fifth
cousin, four generations removed, of Robert E. Lee.

The genealogy, compiled by Anthony R. Wagner, a
Royal Herald, bearer of the official title of Portcullis
Pursuivant at the College of Arms of London and direc-
tor of the heraldic display in the British Pavillion at the
World’s Fair, will be published on July 1 in The Record,
official organ of the New York Genealogical and Bio-
graphical Society.

Mr. Wagner came upon the connections, it was
learned, while digging up the family roots of Washing-
ton for the British display at the Fair. The results of his
research were known to officials of the Society of Colonial
Dames, of which Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt is a member, at
the time of the Queen’s visit, and it was understood that
some efforts had been undertaken during her stay in the
United States to offer her an honorary membership in
this organization of descendants of Colonial Americans.
Whether the offer actually was made and whether the
(Jueen was receptive to it was not learned yesterday.

Meanwhile, however, the results of Mr. Wagner’s
search showed that Queen Elizabeth and George Wash-
ington had in common several ancestors, among them
Captain Nicholas Martiau,on whose family lands in York-
town General Cornwallis tendered his sword to Wash-
ington in token of the British surrender to American in-
dependence. The line began, so far as this connected
branch is concerned, with

ner, Jr., had two daughters. One married Lawrence
Washington, who was the grandfather of George Wash-
ington. The other married John Smith, and their daugh-
ter Mildred married Robert Porteus. Porteus, a land-
owner and official in the Virginia colonial government,
felt it impossible to educate his children satisfactorily in
the New World and returned to England.

He was twice married and had eighteen children. One
was the Rev. Robert Porteus, who married Judith Coc-
kayne. Another was Bishop of London. From the mar-
riage of the Rev. Robert Porteus and Judith Cockayne
there was a daughter who married Robert Hodgson of
Congleton, and their son was the Rev. Robert Hodgson,
Dean of Carlisle. He had a daughter, Henrietta Mildred,
who married Oswald Smith, and a daughter of this union,
Frances Dora Smith, became the wife of Claude Lyon-
Bowes, a name later transposed to Bowes-Lyon, the thir-
teenth Earl of Strathmore and the grandfather of Queen
Elizabeth. Thus the line goes directly back to Colonel Au-
gustine Warner, Jr., who was the great-grandfather of
George Washington.

Mr. Wagner summed it up: “Her Majesty is not only
descended from several of the earliest pioneer settlers in
the Virginia Colony, but she is through this descent cousin
to many families which remained in America and played
a prominent part in later history. Notably, she is second
cousin, six times removed—that is to say eighth in direct
descent from his great-aunt—of George Washington. In
case this relationship may seem rather distant, it is worth
pointing out that to Washington at least few living peo-
ple can be related much

 

Colonel Augustine Warner,
who came to America and
settled in 1628; he died in
1674. He had two children,
a son and namesake and a
daughter named Mary. The
son married Mildred Reade,
daughter of Colonel George
Reade and granddaughter
of Captain Martiau, and
from the daughter Mary,
the line descends to General
Robert Edward Lee.

 

Colonel Augustine War-

A large number of subscriptions to the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE have expired since the 1939 Class Agents’
letters were sent out. The Alumni Office has sent no
notification of these expirations, hoping that they
would be renewed by subscriptions of $5 or more
to the Class Fund. We have continued to send the
magazine to all of these expirations. It is not too
late to take advantage of the offer of a full year’s
subscription to all alumni making this $5 Class con-
tribution, as we do not close our books on this fund
until October. If check is sent direct to the Alumni
Office, your Class Agent will be duly notified, and
your magazine subscription extended for a full year.

more closely. It is some-
what ironical that among
Washington's nearest of kin
now living should be num-
bered the Queen of Great
Britain.

 

James A. BLAtocu, 1937,
has opened a law office at
706 Lamar Life Building,
Jackson, Mississippi. He is
a member of the bar of Mis-
sissipi, West Virginia, and
Virginia.

 

 

[7]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Dr. David Vance Guthrie

Dr. Davin VANCE GUTHRIE, who took his A.B. from
Washington and Lee in 1903 and his M.A. in 1904, after
whom the new observatory at Louisiana State University
He has been at L.S.U. for the past
at Johns Hopkins after

has been named.
twenty-seven years; he studied
leaving Washington and Lee, then taught at Virginia be-
fore going to L.S.U. The State-Times of Baton Rouge
paid Dr. Guthrie high editorial praise when the new ob-
servatory was designated “Guthrie Observatory” in honor
of the man who is head of the physics and astronomy de-
partment at the University. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE in
October, 1936, called attention to the *
of Guthries’” at Washington and Lee—Walter Guthrie,
class of 1940, is a nephew of Dr. David Vance Guthrie.
Walter’s father, Frederic P. Guthrie, class of 1911, is
district communications manager of RCA in Washington.

‘seven generations

 

THe APPALACHIAN ALUMNI ASSOCIATION held a
dinner meeting at the Hotel Bristol, May 20, and heard
a talk by Cy Young. The meeting was well attended by
alumni and guests and their wives. Homer Jones, 1917,

was elected president, and Ed Wright, 1929, secretary.

Tradition Lives On

THE FOLLOWING letter reached President Gaines’ of-
fice under date of June 7. It came from a distinguished
physician of the middle west; it speaks for itself 1n com-
pliment to Washington and Lee:

A week ago I came to Lexington, Virginia, and as a
visitor, anxious to observe your university and the won-
derful natural phenomena around your city. I arrived
very early in the morning, and after breakfast at one of
the most unusual inns in all this country, I went to the
campus and was impressed by the dignity, serenity, and
the affectiveness of the grouping and the type of your
college buildings. We took the lower drive about the hour
the nine o'clock classes were being released and a very
unusual experience came to me. Every young man who is
a member of your university, seeing I was a stranger,
with all the dignity and spirit of your school, when he met
me at the walk, said “Good morning, Sir.’ This happened
on each occasion that | met one of your students. It was
such a very unusual, gracious, and elegant experience that
| cannot help but write to you and express my apprecia-
tion of the leadership of a university where such a cus-
tom is endorsed and so wholesomely used.

| am a university graduate and have been on the cam-
puses of a great number of universities. I enjoyed the
Virginia University with a great deal of satisfaction, a
wonderful institution at Charlottesville, and a very affec-
tive one down at Williamsburg, but I was made to feel a
certain feeling that made me feel at home at your won-
derful university.

May God prosper you because nothing but good edu-
cation and a fine attitude towards man and living can
come from a background such as your school offers.

 

OGDEN SHROPSHIRE, class of 1924, has announced
the formation of Shropshire and Company, engaging in
general investment banking business and specializing in
Alabama municipals ; offices are located in the First Na-
tional Bank Annex, Mobile, Alabama.

 

(PETE) PETERSON, 1937, is a special district agent for
the Bankers Life Company in charge of Duluth and the
outlying territory. His address is 2505 East Second Street,
Duluth, Minnesota.

 

(Hoss) RickEson, 1937, is with the Penny Stores in
Indianapolis. He is married and has a small daughter. His
address is 1342 North Alabama Street, Indianapolis, Ind.

[8 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Washington and Lee Plates by Wedgwood

By Joun Grawam, 1914
Associate Professor of Romance Languages at Washington and Lee

of commemorative plates as gaudily colored china
atrocities with “SOUVENIR OF THE WorRLD’s Farr” painted
across them in large letters? Well, I always had, until one
day five years ago “Scram’’ Sale wrote me enclosing a
circular offering “Yale Plates by Wedgwood” to Yale
alumni.

“Dear John,” he said, “I am not particularly inter-
ested in a set of Yale plate, but I would prize very highly
something similar from Washington and Lee and I feel
sure that there are lots of other boys who would welcome
some such memento of our school. Why don’t you or
somebody do something about it ?”

The proposed Yale plates looked different from any-
thing of the sort I had seen before and when Wedgwood’s
representatives in this country sent me samples of what
they had done for Yale, Harvard, West Point, Smith and
Sweet Briar I began to get enthusiastic about the matter.
Though I hadn't tried to draw since I was in the seventh
grade, I even made a sketch of what I thought would be
an effective design for Washington and Lee. Then, after
talking the matter over with one or two people, we de-
cided that depressions and recessions being what they
were it was not a propitious moment for bringing the
project to the attention of the alumni and the whole af-
fair was dropped.

Last year a group of enthusiastic alumni of our neigh-
boring sister institution decided that she needed some-
thing to mark her centennial and that nothing would be
more appropriate than a set of commemorative plates
made by the celebrated English pottery firm of Wedg-
wood. Virginia Military Institute now has her plates, and
beauties they are. This started me thinking (an unusual
professional activity, perhaps, but an occasional one). If
hard-boiled military men can be interested in such things
why not the effete sons of Washington and Lee? I talked
to a number of alumni about the matter and their reaction
was always the same. “If the Alumni Association would
get out such a set of plates, I would feel they would be
doing me a service and not making any demands on me.”

So—Alumni President Lykes, Cy Young and I got
together with Mr. Leech, representing the Wedgwood
company, and it was decided to go ahead with the project.
President Lykes appointed a committee consisting of Cy

| ne you always thought, with a vague distaste,

Young, Stuart Moore and me to arrange details and we
got busy with the results that you may read below. The
center views were chosen and Wedgwood submitted a
tentative design for the border which was exhibited at
finals to the visiting alumni and me with universal ap-
proval. A reproduction of their design will be sent every
alumnus in the fall.

A word of explanation about the choice of views to go
in the center of the plates: Some one is going to say:
“Why didn’t they include a picture of Washington and
Lee?” Well, we decided that there are things more ap-
petizing than eating off other people’s faces and that it
wouldn't contribute to the success of a dinner party to
have Old George peering out at you from a mound of
mashed potatoes or to see a wisp of spaghetti festooned
over General Lee’s moustache and beard.

You will be interested, of course, in a description of
the plates:

xtreme care has been exercised in making these
plates a fitting reminder of our school. A special border
characteristic of Washington and Lee has been designed
and the eight center views have been chosen for their
artistic merit as well as for their sentimental value.

The plates are to be made in England at the famous
Wedgwood potteries. They will be of a fine earthenware
and the designs are to be printed from hand-engraved
copper plates in blue, mulberry and green and laid on un-
der the glaze so as never to be damaged by wear. Since
the subscription lists will not be closed until fall and the
plates must be made in England, delivery cannot be ex-
pected until early in 1940.

The border has been designed specially to suggest the
history, architecture, landscape, flora, etc., of Washing-
ton and Lee and its beautiful campus. We are proud to
boast that the design contains not a dot or line of decora-
tive material that is not inspired by our school tradition.

Flowering sprays of the campus dogwood, moving
clockwise, lead the eye around a series of medallions en-
closed between the alternate square and round columns of
our colonnade. These insets indicate in chronological or-
der: first, Liberty Hall Academy ; then, Washington Col-
lege; and last, Lee Chapel. At the bottom appears the
coat-of-arms of the University worked into a formal ar-
rangement with the athletic monograms. Inside the floral

[9 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

border is the legend “Washington and Lee University”
with the lettering taken from the official seal of the school.
In the center of each plate there is some familiar campus
scene.

Each set of eight plates will contain the following cen-
ter views:

1. WASHINGTON COLLEGE, the familiar south view of
the oldest building on the campus, sometimes called the
Main Building.

2. LEE CHAPEL, looking down the walk toward the
south side of the chapel with the row of old ash trees on
the left.

3. LEE-JACKSON HoME, the most historic building on
the campus, with the century-old dogwood trees in bloom.
Here lived Robert E. Lee, Stonewall Jackson, and, in

our days, Professors Quarles, Gurrell, Shannon and
Moreland.

4. Campus WALK, the fork in the path near the Epis-
copal Church showing the monumental old ash tree that,
for generations, every student has passed every day.
Washington College in the background.

5. CARNEGIE LIBRARY, view from the east with House
Mountain in the background.

6. DorEmMus GyMNAs!UuM, shown on top of the hill
with the bridge to Wilson Field in the foreground.

7. TucrrerR HALL, the new law building with the old
sycamore tree and Dr. Howe's iris blooming to the right.

8. WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857, a view of the cam-
pus from a quaint old print of Lexington, now in the

(Continued on page 20)

 

Colors: Staffordshire Blue [|

1. Washington College................... Pa
EM AEERISO Bo tep hocks oecenssscossorhssoeeetle ee
3. Lee-Jackson Home...............00. ra
RANI PME v0.50 00. 001. .cccnnsontacten) [es

ee Se eee ee eae Oe eo a a ee ee ee ee ee eee eer TCCrweremtCeereoCrvreCrCvrerVvrTCVrVCrUt VCP Veen VU Ve Ow

 

LLL a ae aera eer

Order Blank
WASHINGTON AND LEE WEDGWOOD PLATES

Received from: TB sen cciarphochaeytip porsiavestucso EERE gS +<>$+-
PU RIICo.00sseccadeodosvataddbdebsbbonsstdescsseccceverdebqacconnacesdoocsevenonsepyedessuansebubpaghteaspepyessdecssocsons
MEENICORS, «....cho;neacssbis thet enRAMMMbADDabhisaeessctecrsbonovebnensebaneneNesassvoseos sbeisheheRNIREMMEAaberhedvoorsonts

Bisa iisancrsenece: for the following Washington and Lee University plates at $1.50 per

plate, payable in advance, express extra. Check color and number of plates desired.

One Complete set of Eight plates [|

(or else check desired views below; see description)

Center Views

Washington and Lee Alumni Association, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia

a a a a a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ae eee ee ee ee we ee el SS SSS |S

Mulberry | | Green [ |

6. Carnegie Library ...........:cccccssstee he
6. Doremus Gymnasium ................ ny
Pe OC ee a ieee. sccecseeseostocsnness core

8. Washington College, 1857.......... ee

- 4 A A A A 44 SA 4 AAA A+ A+++ 4 A by be bebe de die dir dire dir cli ll gllt.lltllttrlltterlttuzlttilltarlltas, litrllitasllslltttlltrlttas tt lltttlltthttnltihillithtlitthhtitltintlltlltntlinlntlintlltntltnlinlnilln

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

One of the “Lee Boys” Writes—

(Reminiscences of Jas. McFaddin Blanding, from the years 1681 to 1871)

HE boat reached lexington about 8:00 a. m. and I
es to the hotel and put on my dress suit and went
over to the college to matriculate about nine o'clock in
the morning.

There were very few on the campus and information
from the janitor pointed out General Lee’s office, advis-
ing me that he was there. Of course I was immensely ex-
cited over meeting the greatest leader of the South and
before entering his office | was shaking with fear. I found
General Lee alone and he met me at the door and gave
me a grip of friendship with a kindly smile which made
me feel as if he was an old acquaintance. He sat in front
of his large table with piles of papers, orderly arranged
with weights on them; he drew up a chair opposite him-
self and asked me to be seated.

Colonel Asberry Coward, who was principal of King’s
Mountain school of York, South Carolina, had written a
letter of introduction for me to General Lee; also there
were letters from General Kershaw, General Kennedy
and my father. | handed the batch over to him, he opened
my father’s letter first, took out the check for my tuition
fees, etc., and had me sign the matriculation pledge. He
spoke very kindly of my father, who was for eighteen
months colonel under him in Virginia, and expressed re-
gret that his health had failed him but was glad to know
that he had partially recovered his health later. He then
read the Kershaw and Kennedy letters and then read the
Coward letter which was signed A. Coward as Colonel
Coward always signed his name. When he reached the
end of the letter with a smile he looked at me and said,
“A. Coward ?”’; he looked again at the signature and with
a brighter smile said again, “A. Coward ?”’ Looking at the
name the third time with a very broad smile on his face
he said, “A. Coward?’; then he looked at me with a
solemn face and said, “Mr. Blanding, A. Coward with
his splendid regiment served with me in the army of
northern Virginia and a braver, truer or more efficient of-
ficer | never knew, and whenever I had a difficult ma-
neuver to be carried out Colonel Coward with his regi-
ment was one of the first officers I called upon to execute
it and it was always done just exactly as it should have
been.”

Thinking that he was a very busy man, I tried several
times to leave his office but he insisted upon my remain-
ing, asking about his friends and his army companions in

South Carolina, many of whom I knew quite well. After
being in the office with him for one-half or three-quarters
of an hour, I went back to the hotel and wrote a letter to
Colonel Coward, trying to use as nearly as possible Gen-
eral Lee’s words spoken of him. Colonel Coward and I
were great friends and | had a reply from him thanking
me for the letter and saying that it was an heirloom which
was to remain in his family.

General Lee was very busy after that, having hardly
a moment to give anyone except on business and I saw
very little of him except of his going and coming from
his home to his office; but on many occasions I, like the
other students, made it a point to meet him on these trips
so as to salute him and to receive his salute.

A few weeks after I matriculated, about October 1,
there came up a very cold wind which might compare
with our Texas northers and the storm overtook him
while he was on West Main Street, riding as he did
almost every day after office hours on his faithful
“Traveller,” wearing a broad brim black felt hat with a
large cloak, which I think was lined with red flannel.
Some eight or ten of us were standing on the corner of
the main cross street in Lexington and someone called,
“Yonder comes General Lee!” Looking west on Main
Street some three or four hundreds yards away he came
at full lope and sweeping around the corner on which we
stood, saluting us and we returning the same; then turn-
ing northward reached his home about three blocks away.

I have seen many graceful riders but he was the most
graceful I have ever seen.

In October he attended a meeting of the Episcopal
Church of which he was an officer and there he caught a
cold which caused pneumonia, resulting in his death a
few days thereafter. General Lee was desperately ill for
a short time and on Tuesday morning the professors were
notified that he was very ill and probably would not last
through the day, and they were advised that in case of his
death the college bell would toll.

1 was in my Moral Philosophy class room between 11
and 12 o'clock. This class was taught by Dr. Kirkpatrick,
father of Mrs. Prather, whose husband was later presi-
dent of the University of Texas. We had hardly com-
menced the recitation before the bell tolled and at the
first sound, the professor and the students drew their

(Continued on page 18)

[11]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Carves Chest for Queen

Miss Mary Barctay is well known to Washington
and [,ee alumni as Cy Young’s secretary, but she isn't
well known to them for her wood carving, a hobby that
has developed into such fine proportions that she com-
pleted a handsome chest which was presented to the Queen
of England on her recent visit to Washington. A similar
chest, also Miss Mary’s handiwork, was presented to
Mrs. Roosevelt.

Miss Mary has been carving wood into beautiful
things for some time now, but the creation of the chests
for the Queen and the First Lady came about this way :

Several months ago she was asked to-make the two
chests for Bolling L,. Robertson of Short Hills, New Jer-
sey. The chests were to be filled with candles which he
manufactures, and in turn presented to the two “‘first
ladies.” The chests, 22 by 15 inches and six inches deep,
were made of Cuban mahogany.

The two chests were identical except for the crest, the
one for the Queen bearing her personal crest and the one
for Mrs. Roosevelt bearing her family crest. A silver fork
from the White House was sent to Miss Mary, for her to

McCRUMS

vy

 

 

Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY
In Lexington and Vicinity

yw
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
y
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
y
Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

 

 

 

 

 

 

follow the Roosevelt crest imprinted on it; a copy of the
Queen’s crest was obtained from the Herald’s College in
London. The crests, as carved by Miss Mary on the finely-
made chests, were six inches square.

Mrs. Roosevelt's chest was delivered to the White
House, and the one for Queen Elizabeth was delivered to
the British ambassador at the British Embassy in Wash-
ington.

Miss Mary does most of her carving on Cuban ma-
hogany. Her work includes large chests, fraternity crests,
images for gardens, and other designs.

 

Lauck Elected President

C. Haroip Lauck, superintendent of the Washing-
ton and Lee Journalism Laboratory Press, which prints
THe ALUMNI MAGAZINE, recently was elected president
of the National Graphic Arts Education Guild at its meet-
ing in New York City. Meetings were held at Columbia
University.

Luck prepared, and printed at the Journalism Lab-
oratory Press, a keepsake for the members and friends of
graphic arts education—a booklet which was distributed
at the association’s annual banquet, entitled, ‘The Wil-
liam Parks Paper Mill at Williamsburg,” by Rutherfoord
Goodwin, of Colonial Williamsburg, Inc.

Lauck’s election to the presidency of the national or-
ganization followed numerous honors bestowed upon him
in recent years for his work in typography. In addition
to superintending the work of the press at Washington
and Lee, he teaches a course in “Mechanics of Journal-
ism” in the department of journalism.

Also he has been instrumental in organizing the East-
ern Typocrafters, a group of typographers associated for
the purpose of exchanging typographical specimens and
ideas. Membership is by invitation only. Lauck serves the
group as “‘librarian.”’

 

ALFRED H. WISHNEW, class of 1937, has announced
the opening of offices for the general practice of law at
153 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn, New York.

 

R. C. Gi_more, class of 1932, has been appointed
manager of the Washington agency of the Bankers Life
Company of Des Moines, Lowa.

 

Tuomas H. ALPHIN, class of 1936, is on the research
staff of The Blandy Experimental Farm, Boyce, Virginia,
where he has been since September, 1936. Upon com-
pletion of his work there he plans to enter the University
of Virginia Medical School.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Random Notes on Sports

OOKING back over the spring sports season, it’s obvious
ee the Generals didn’t fare so badly on the baseball
diamond, the cinder path, the tennis court and the golf
course. The black mark, if it could be called that under
the circumstances under which they row, went to the crew
with three losses in intercollegiate com-
petition. Not equipped or trained up to
par with their competitors, the oars-
men simply were outclassed.

The spring of 1939 witnessed a re-
surgence of interest in track, with
Coach Fletcher's well-balanced squad
brushing aside all dual meet foes with
the exception of Maryland, which
boasted one of its best teams in years.
In the Southern Conference meet at
Chapel Hill, the Generals’ Heartsill
Ragon stepped the 440 in 48.9 to win.
The Generals placed second in the state
meet.

The Washington and Lee nine won
seven games, lost ten, several by close
decisions, and was rained out of five
scheduled tilts.

Coach Ollinger Crenshaw’s tennis team won seven
matches, losing during the season only to Michigan, in
the first meet of the year, and to Virginia’s hard-hitting
courtmen. In the Conference tournament, the Generals
were outclassed.

Coach Cy Twombly’s golf team lost only three dual
matches this spring, and won the others by comfortable
enough margins.

In the recently inaugurated sport of lacrosse, the
Washington and Lee stickmen under Coach Larkin Far-
inholt tied for leadership of the Dixie League. The Gen-
erals capped their season’s record with a convincing 9-5
victory over North Carolina in the last game of the sea-
son, played at Lexington.

Briefly speaking, then, it was a fairly good season all
around.

Now for some brief notes about football :

The Generals again will train at Nimrod Hall, se-
cluded retreat in the Alleghanies about fifty miles west
of Lexington. Dick Boisseau, giant tackle from Peters-
burg, Virginia, is captain of the 1939 eleven; he will be
holding down his side of the line in his usual fine style,
but there'll be a gap in the other tackle slot because of the

 

graduation of Joe Ochsie, the “sixty-minute man” of
Washington and Lee football. Ochsie will play pro foot-

ball this fall with the New York Giants.
From this distance—speaking in terms of weeks and
months—it looks like two major factors will hinder the
team’s chances

 

for considerable suc-
cess on the 1939 gridiron. They are:
(1) lack of capable reserves, and (2)
lack of weight.

There just won't be many fine re-
serves. And the boys just don’t tip the
scales as heavily as many of their op-
ponents.

One chief and unexpected loss this
fall is Harrison Hogan, the triple-
threat back who elected not to return
to school after spring holidays this year.
His place in the backfield will be hard
to fill.

We could go on and on about the
prospects, but we won't. We'll save
more comment about the gridiron until
the fall issue, when football will be in
the air. At this time of the year it’s en-
tirely too hot to think or talk football! Spring sports re-
sults are as follows:

BASEBALL
Washington and Lee, 8; Ohio State University .......... 6
Washington and Lee, 5; Lynchburg College Jinis ae
Washington and Lee, ..; Bridgewater College Rain
Washington and Lee, 4; Randolph-Macon College ae
Washington and Lee, 3; William and Mary........... 9

Washington and Lee, 0; University of Richmond 21

Washington and Lee, ..; University of North Carolina’ Rain
Washington and Lee, 5; North Carolina State ....... 3
Washington and Lee, ..; Duke University Rain

Washington and Lee, 4; University of Michigan 22, aa

Washington and Lee, ..; University of Maryland Rain
Washington and Lee, 1; University of North Carolina ... 2
Washington and Lee, 4; Roanoke College ......... if
Washington and Lee, 4; William and Mary ............. 3
Washington and Lee, 13; Virginia Polytechnic Institute . 3
Washington and Lee, 8; University of Virginia = oa
Washington and Lee, 1: University of Richmond 5
Washington and Lee, 4; Virginia Polytechnic Institute ... 1
Washington and Lee, 2; University of Virginia ch eka ae
Washington and Lee, 7; Randolph-Macon College ..... 8
Washington and Lee, 5; Georgetown University 4

Washington and Lee, ..; University of Maryland

“

[13]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

z f

ee Se ee ee

ee RES Re eee RS
AE NNN
Res gS ae

4% y

 

Ne RRS ARE REE AE IE IE ONAN
peat = ie x Tape

 

 

$s

SaaS Saas

stabs orcas saat

ve,

pS

 

 

 

- Pa Ren. ae a SES LT
pes eet ce ee

az Oe

 

6, 7,8, 9. Casual shots at Alumni Luncheon; 10. Among the grad- *Ernest Beale, 1908, *J. V. Beale, 1939; *G. W. Cleek, 1912, *T. R.
uates of 1939 were sixteen sons of alumni. These are listed below Cleek, 1939; M. E. Cruser, 1909, M. E. Cruser, Jr., 1939; *J. J.
with their fathers. Asterisks indicate those not appearing in the Davis, 1892, *J. J. Davis, Jr., 1939; W. T. Delaplaine, 1909, W. T.
picture. *Fred Bartenstein, 1908, Fred Bartenstein, Jr., 1939; Delaplaine, III, 1939; H. A. Derr, 1910, W. G. Derr, 1939; *E. W.

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

x a

 

ip es ae
: x

x eg

C8 ek
eat
eee Sead ¥o ea My
3 “yt eS

ae

Pre RS

 

 

Foreman, 1911, *F. W. Foreman, 1939; H. L. Handley, 1906, H. L. 1939; Heartsill, Ragon, 1908, *Heartsill Ragon, Jr., 1939; G. M.
Handley, Jr., 1939; Bernie Harper, 1913, “Bernie Harper, Jr., 1939; Smith, 1905, G. M. Smith, Jr., 1939; Larry Wilson, 1910, Ben
R. F. Hutcheson, 1910, R. F. Hutcheson, Jr., 1939; A. R. Larrick, Wilson, 1939. These pictures were made at the annual Alumni
1907, A. R. Larrick, Jr., 1939; *W. S. Parkins, 1914, J. A. Parkins, luncheon at the University Dining Hall.

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

TRACK

Washington and Lee, 78 ; William and Mary.......... 48

Washington and Lee, 80%; University of Richmond..... 45%
Washington and Lee,85 ; Virginia Tech............... 41

Washington and Lee, 49 ; University of Maryland...... 77

State Meet at Richmomess . £5. oc. hv. oe ces Placed Second
Southern Conference Meet............ Tied for Fourth Place

LACROSSE
Washington and L2G, i smeeey. so. ica Ca wa 3
Washington and Lee, 7; University of Virginia............. 5
Washington and Lee, 5; Swarthmore ...................... 8
Washington and Lee, 5; Duke University .................. 3
Washington and Lee, 4; Duke University .................. 3
Washington and Lee,8; North Carolina ..... rr ae ees 3
Washington and Lee, 7; University of Virginia........... 2
Washington and Lee,9; North Carolina ................... 5
TENNIS

Washington and Lee, 3; Michigan .................... es
Washington and Lee,9; Manhattan ..... peels Re Sows 0
Washington and Lee,9; Hampden-Sydney ............... 0
Washington and Lee, .; North Carolina .............. Rain
Washington and Lee,7; North Carolina State ...... 2

Washington and Lee, 7; Wm. and Mary (Norfolk Division) 0
Washington and Lee, 0; University of Virginia ...........9

Washington and Lee, ; University of Maryland. . _. Rain
Washington and Lee,7; Elon College .................... 0
Washington and Lee,9; William and Mary............... 0
Washington and Lee, 9; North Carolina State ............. 0
GOLF
Waishineton and iee: 3 7S moston i... 5. es 6
Washington and Lee, 15%; Apprentice School......... 2%
Washington and Lee, 134; William and Mary.......... 4%
Washington and Lee, 12 ; University of Virginia....... 13
Washington and Lee,18 ; Richmond .................. 0
Washineton and bee os ery. s:.... eee 2
Washington and Lee, 2 ; Duke University............ 16
CREW
American International College. ...............0b0..05. Lost
Rewune Camere oo. ei oes a ws Ss. ve aap Lost
Richmond ti rivereia ee ss se ies ne le cee Lost
VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1939
Sent. 30°. Sewee - Sigeee eee ee ce e.. _. Lexington, Va.
Oct. 7 Richmond University.............. Lexington, Va.
Oct. 14 Southwestern University ..... _. Memphis, Tenn.
Oct: 21° West Virgenes. fcc ce es Charleston, West Va.
Oct. 28 Virginia Polytechnic Institute ..... Lynchburg, Va.
Nov. 4 Washington University ............. St. Louis, Mo.
Nov. 10 Univ. of Virginia (Homecoming)... Lexington, Va.
Nov. 18 William and Mary.............. Williamsburg, Va.
Nov. 30 Univ. of Maryland (Thanksgiving). . Baltimore, Md.

 

Joun H. Tucker, JR., class of 1910, who is a promi-
nent member of the bar in Shreveport, Louisiana, has
been appointed acting president of the Louisiana State
Law Institute. This organization, recently created by the
legislature of that state, has been given the task of stat-
ing, commenting upon and bringing up to date the civil
law of that state.

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Treasurer's Report
Year Ending June 1, 1939

RECEIPTS
Bank Balance; jtme: 1; BSB a6} iene eon $2,760.30
Contributions to Alumni Fund............................ 5,451.43
Magazine Subscriptions «......::cii..iggmaves ic edeis cence 198.50
Magazine Advertising........ ‘spe cauch estaba sostiiecss's «abet 104.40
Refund for Telephone Call.......................:c.:c0 LZ
$8,515.88
DISBURSEMENTS
Ofte Stpilie. 652) ia iis clk Loar ea ein has tet $ 352.00
Re kta hice. sree cued arcs han te sh 168.30
ee A a id Scio ve cede ia 106.67
Pera oe. ie. as thee es ee 219.65
DRE SUE rc aces aapednase BREE AL bela saidhinnto als 1,511.89
MNT SOG 58 oeccsdae tks ss a A eee ee: 1,422.85
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers.......................... 403.85
Traveling: Tgeepise. 08a eatin Gan 336.25
Alamnit ‘Find, Expense iiciiciscccpyntie..sccgiencsst 809.46
Mitecelinninie 2 eee Ae es, ets. 170.49
CTyRCiis PORTE aka Sri or res, «cabs ccecsee. 10.00
$5,511.41
RECAPITULATION
Receipts and Money in Bank..........................005. $8,515.88
SeUIOIIIINN, 2 Saison ctr ets ch ius duals: ona 5,511.41
$3,004.47
TRIAL BALANCE
Dr. Cr.
PMZ IC AC VOTtisitie so. 2.225 cis5...icdsi....clakepthdde sacs $ 104.40
GE a ee an ra A te Colne $ 210.65
Alumni Luncheons and Smokers.... 403.85
ERR RO OCR: ACE TD 5,441.43
Alumni Fund Expense...................... 809.46
General Account (Net Worth)........ 2,760.30
Rt a a ce 1,313.39
DI ve seek kcide sc Rois 170.49
SR IIR 1 cot hads oy dak cs cncirestocase 352.00
PRM ul ek ate... 168.30
PI sig cas Seach s k 105.42
RRR I TIM 505 oo eee cae ce chests 3,004.47
SSRN eR oro cS \adcsiansonsccechorsues 1,422.85
Traveling Account...............0...cccscc000 336.25

 

$8,306.13 $8,306.13

[16]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notes on Meeting of Alumni, Inc.

RESIDENT [,YKES called the meeting to order at two
Ly clock. and asked that those present stand for a mo-
ment in memory of Miss Annie Joe White and Mr. Henry
Boley, beloved friends of
the University, who died
during the past year.

President Lykes then in-
Dr.

made a short speech of wel-

troduced Gaines, who
come to the alumni, report-
ing that in every way he
feels the University has had
the best year in its history.
Dr. Richard Fowlkes, of
Richmond, read the report
of the Resolutions Commit-
tee, and introduced a resolu-
tion that hereafter the Uni-
versity hold the Commence-
ment exercises on the lawn,
rather than inside the chapel.
This resolution was en-
dorsed by the meeting.
Stuart
as treasurer an exceedingly

Moore reported

good year, and referred the
alumni present to detailed
mimeographed reports avail-
able. The treasurer’s report
was accepted and approved.

Cy Young, alumni sec-
retary, gave an oral report,
in which he announced that
the Class Agent Plan had
its most successful year.

Mr. Lykes gave an oral
report as president of the
alumni, calling attention to
various plans to enlarge the scope of alumni work, and
announcing that Mr. Young would hereafter give his un-
divided attention to the alumni work. He mentioned the
necessity of some means of interesting the outgoing
classes more promptly in alumni matters.

Ki Williams gave the report of the Nominating Com-
mittee. The following names were suggested :

For members of Alumni Board of Trustees: W. Car-

 

L. J. Boxley, LL.B., 1909, of Roanoke, Va., who was pre-

sented the Thomas Nelson Page award this year, an award

made annually to an alumnus for devotion and service to

Washington and Lee. Mr. Boxley is president of the Blue

Ridge Stone Corporation and of the Trego Stone Corpora-

tion and is vice-president of the New Hotel Corporation and
the Pembroke Limestone Corporation.

roll Mead, 1925, Baltimore, Maryland; Allen Morgan,

1929, Memphis, Tennessee.
Local members of Athletic Council: Charles Glas-
gow and Matthew Paxton.

Non - resident members
of Athletic Council: Will H.
smith, 1915, Ardmore, Ok-
lahoma: Amos Bolen, 1924,
Huntington, West Virginia.

On motion these men
were approved.

President Lykes then
Professor John
Graham, who gave a de-

called on

scription and explanation of
the commemorative Wash-
ington and Lee plates, to be
made by Wedgwood.

Dr. made the
presentation of the Thomas

Gaines

Nelson Page award, which
is presented annually to an
alumnus of Washington and
for his devotion and
service to the University, to
L,.. J. Boxley, LL.B. 1909,

of Roanoke, Virginia.

lee

Stephen Chadwick,
LL.B. 1914, National Com-
mander of the American
Legion, was called on to
speak a few words, and he
called attention to the friend-
ly spirit of the alumni of this
institution and expressed
pleasure in being able to at-
tend the twenty-fifth anni-
versary reunion of his class.

Mr. Young called attention to the fact that the class
of 1929 is the leader of the Class Campaign for this year,
and that its class agent is Allen Morgan, newly-elected
member of the Alumni Board.

There being no further business, the meeting was ad-
journed.

The meeting was held in the recently restored Chapel
in the Washington College building.

[17|

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Fund Standing, June 17, 1939

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1869-91...... 18.6 de SDL. Ba dosth dovcedesdideicnas Alumni Office
De ecikctinkss BRovistsdiaians SN oittnsieKdcinrumbincesvoash Hale Houston
PPP TBD Sic devecorend Bacccstcunes NUE dasiscpascovsecceieoee shea B. A. Judd
Si iiiisckschas Biciscbide eo acs clebaclihe Alumni Office
BI. sides vcsmuls:<° ‘sandiaeieen int ATRESIA, 2 sn cocevecsesasssnusuienienenianan alesis
PP Oi stibtesssis Da cites sis ssc cpecasténees H. H. Larimore
Se Wiccsteavasin RIEL S i caccgsascnsapetad Alumni Office
RPeihY. Ac Sater SII 5 occ Sudsdadenddaben Edward A. O'Neal
OT Be inpccksncic Bas Latin MMA ocechapdanne Rev. Jas. A. McClure
SOO ivsisicisiae Bevicabdebies I cs sdiddeiiltahades Hilton S. Hampton
***1901 5 MINIS is ov sbntnbidunsetnns Clarence C. Burns
a da ae SURE: we chbdeneblanearile Osman E. Swartz
PE aaivesshiainns OF ca SO cass scl Col. James Warren Bagley
ai ccstaiieess GD iicccnaiet 32.50 K. I. McKay
PROT TIS... ccvdssets Mavansediabel i PP abincesieintcinuiaadei Walter G. Riddick
PPP TOs ccccscecnes BGA ests DBO vs na vs cedsiediinedl Dr. F. R. Crawford
***19(0)7 13 GALISDL........- denetncacanvulvedunes W. R. J. Dunn
1908 A........ Saas sak 3B | pe te Be A ee Peyton Hobson
1908 L........ Bisiieink ABAD. . scvcsciinisencdabbscatakebats E. L. Beale
*#*1909 A........ CE Gidicaniiee BRE AiO isscvsetet Dr. Devall L. Gwathmey
TSP Tip ccscure ee eaNa ti 162,90. .:.;:. dann Judge E. C. Caffrey
PF TE Piecavee deh cinlebennes BSD IID 0 000cstaseasiadiaiia Rayford W. Alley
PRTG Loc cccoses Dicciceebsass 7 Dt evesveclieael Orange W. Richardson
EPEE Pispscstcs De clenitlaihie 96.00 F. P. Guthrie
CSP I9TT Taisen Ficetaesaeee aes oncdeetieceeemel Omar T. Kaylor
WIDE? Antic BB ieidccs 123.00 Dan B. Owen
RP IST2 Ticil Cite diils Pe iiliecss-skemsseniibeinas Judge A. G. Lively
SPF1913 Asics DE. cick Gin ccd I Eicis oo +osasusiigrubicuasaiiaan Lewis Twyman
ROLE Lisvcni 5 issih SEER sccoccenpeweh Howard P. Macfarlane
*1914 A........ 19. sdakvcu 136.00 Wayne Ely
*1914 L......... LL cditndt 70.00 Ben D. Smith
PIS A ssa Di ivaisiiadee SERIE) cavcoctubasvhenonssuneiia Paul C. Thomas
BOLD ‘dscccosmes Succensiieel SMPs. cocechhitustcibnects Arthur M. Birdsall
***1916 A........ 20, cisccacaiea Sai scocdedidibidocesissiaiiele Battle Bagley
¥OF1916 1,......- Sossceeeal 22.00 Sam P. Kohen
OOF 1917 Anse £9...:.coaeee NII, «.\cconsnutiosdvakdovscces Marion Sanders
1917 L,..cts: 1s cotta Seni: ocgkcea tea cxcvocks Lafe B. Chafin
***1918 A........ 13. .dcebdooah aise al ib oviecanigaperh A. S. Marx
DEE Fool i i | - abd IE Rthacbebecedicactoce scene
OF 1910 A acesik. wihiecdaen IR iat bsaeatnse Dr. T. Dewey Davis
BONO Bo sid. cepkieee AMD sc blpeelEleicgekces
1920 A........ 2A. aise EMEA ssciedsRedintecs. Thomas M. Stubbs
1920 L......... D .ictsaphisie PM Maapt i hitbisscccssecee L. Berkeley Cox
Peet Pisin EA clivehieinn es sbccsce pedi John L. Patterson
OST ISL Lissienns d gleveseitunth ENED Bleck scccscsnivecsesniens John Bell
POFT ILS Pisieuns i cssccen sen See chteisiiiemneshes Troy C. Musselwhite
*##1922 L.....000 Divesctedeohs Dees casentdsetnarss Edmund D. Campbell
1991929 A. ia Dadbivedisds 21.50 Edward Aull
FPF 1925 Lancome cnsscaboas 15.00 Cy Hall
**1924 A........ ER hbsedibh bee GO Mi oh deitsdcdiis.ies Frank C. Switzer
**1924 L.....0- We lixiekicics Soap id vukebekinnsetes Randolph G. Whittle
1925 Asstixi Be aii FOG. isda iidis sce Murrel D. Klein
91925 TL iccssss Te ike BF Bie iinckenidic. George T. Clark

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Contributors Amt. Class Agent
*#*#1926 A....000. aR Pe ecisthesukscdeesns Emmett MacCorkle
6991926 L,....dbe- ee Ps tbisscectocksacn dbus Basil G. Watkins

*1927 A........ Di cccoduade A iecas Rocke leosl Kenneth A. Durham
©99]927 Tas. .scce BY tuhiine 25.00 .. Rhea Whitley
#341928 A_:..;... Wocnebbeaaien 35.00 .. Ed Miller

#1928 L,...<cceo . Sopa eR cdi ae lang R. W. Jordan
***1929 A,....... Beh ciklsdeienl RSS cadbaied basdictecaueate cand Allen Morgan

1929 L......... FS cceeanl NO ised. sesentetneeds Ralph M. McLane
**% 1930 A. :...0c8 etiinaisaail AS | RR Ra os 24 PE Edward S. Graves
*O91930 Ly.ccscces Rie DODO. ..idcctitoncdebasts Leonard H. Davis
FOTOS Asin icibiseth SUMED, siiasnstecsecepsahctbiacaale Ben M. Ayars

SOB Radice nition sides tuecteteblehnichaall James B. Martin
*#* 1932 A.....00 Rei shalinksdlic I ss nashssndieis aiid Kemper Jennings

IDB Raksviks ite Se ichiisinhaitiieee Martin P. Burks, III

PISS Aisicsecs REG. acid, ik aE ai each Luther Violett, Jr.
9991955 Tiiicces Ricecdibunine Se isccscape docheasss Donald K. Crawford

1934 A........ Bist diskide Uc cedeishoustedensis George D. McClure
0991934 Ty.ctaie D pabsace 27.00. Taylor Jones
POSTS S Fiction OC cckseuies er Oeececdsdhalblobicssecdbbes William Schuhle
###1935 Lu... Piaitec sie 7.00 W. W. Brown
*#*1936 A... iishishiiins piety Tyree F. Wilson

BODO: Lissiisced s-tadeeytvecee
0009 O57 (Asad, DG ccon cans Bi cachsdtbascvvncsnses Fielden Woodward
P19 SF Bilis iicieh. cout eT cbicecseniies Stanley C. Higgins, Jr.

1938 A........ Ouicsiaals  decsabephatti Sam P. McChesney, Jr.

TOGO Lacdivcdlcs. “veessorcite

1939-40...... Risdesoaiues 5.00 Alumni Office

1957 1 Mie tide ebebtidssécavecthaas Alumni Office

TOtAIS cuss Cada $5135.63

*More contributors than last year.
**More money than last year.
***More contributors and more money.

One of the “Lee Boys” Writes

(Continued from page 11)

handkerchiefs from their pockets and tears dimmed their
eyes. We were dismissed at once. The funeral was held
on Friday. In the long funeral procession Old Traveller
was led by his faithful groom and followed behind the
hearse and looked as if he understood that his great mas-
ter had left him. General Lee’s body was temporarily
placed in a vault in the library under the chapel and cer-
tain of the students were appointed to take their turn as
a special guard, while the library doors were thrown open
to the public. It was my privilege to act as a guard sev-
eral times over the tomb of General Lee before I left
college in 1870.

 

 

G. C. CROWELL, 1937, is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Hugo, Oklahoma, going there in 1934
from Buchanan, Virginia.

[18]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

‘Cy Young, Now Full-Time Alumni Secretary

By RicuHarp P.

T is a real pleasure to be here in Lexington where it’s

sometimes cool and sometimes very hot in the summer-
time and not many people are around—it is a pleasure to
sit here and write about Cy Young.

(Cy is away on vacation now, and I’m leaving any
hour, so the task of finally editing this piece of copy will
fall into the capable hands of Harold Lauck, who as di-
rector of the Journalism Laboratory Press at Washing-
ton and Lee handles the mechanical production of this
magazine. I'll be brief. It’s too hot anyway to write or
read very much. )

There’s a new story to tell about Cy. Perhaps you've
already heard it; perhaps you haven't:

Cy is to be full-time alumni secretary for Washing-
ton and Lee.

The appointment was given approval at the 190th
finals program this June, and announced to the general
alumni meeting by President Lykes of the Alumni As-
sociation. |

Some details remain to be worked out, but beginning
this fall Cy will give up his myriad coaching activities and
devote his full time and energy to the Alumni Associa-

 

CARTER, 1929

tion. That’s the present plan, and if I may speak editor-
ially it’s a plan that will make the Alumni Association
“hum.” Cy has that ability to throw considerable energy
into his work, and he’ll work as hard at it as he ever did
at any important athletic contest when his team was in
the thick of a battle for supremacy.

Let's quote in part from a column by Cawthon Bowen,

sports editor of the Roanoke, Virginia, Times:
... For some time now Cy’s coaching duties have
been something of a secondary nature to his other jobs
in the General stronghold. He’s had a mass of work to do
serving as alumni secretary, basketball coach and tutor of
freshman footballers and baseballers.

“We never witnessed him in action in the work he will
now do but in the other three we have seen him and the
impression is a lasting one. One thought only that here
was some life and death matter, more important than any-
thing else in the world, when Cy was coaching those boys
of Washington and Lee... .”

**

Cy will carry that energy to his new assignment. I
know. I’ve been watching him at work for the few years
[ have been on the University staff. (If he were here to

[19]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

read this, he undoubtedly would ask me to “cut down on
that stuff about me”; but he isn’t here, and besides, I’d
probably sneak it into print anyway. )

Cy, perhaps the best known basketball coach in the
Southern Conference and certainly one of the most popu-
lar, is to give up all of his coaching activities.

Cy came to Washington and Lee from William and
Mary where he had been freshman football and basket-
ball and varsity baseball coach. Since the Southern Con-
ference basketball tournament was inaugurated at Raleigh,
his Washington and Lee cagers have won two champion-
ships, one in 1934 and one in 1937. The Generals were
runners-up in 1935 and 1936.

In point of games played at the tournament, the Gen-
erals under Cy have won more games than any other team,
and he has placed to date more men on all-conference
teams than any other coach.

You know most of the rest about Cy—how he served
overseas, how he returned to enter the lumber business
but couldn’t stay away from colleges and college athletics
and alumni work, how he was a four-sport captain at

Washington and Lee, when he was a member of the
class of 1917.

Alumni President Lykes voiced the opinion of alumni
when he said the appointment of Cy as full-time secre-
tary was “very much in accordance with the wishes of
the alumni.”

Cy will be missed in sports, of course. Anyone with as
much “color” as he had as a basketball coach especially
will be missed.

But he has a more important job to do now. I know
he will do it well.

 

Marriage

LANDON V. ButLer, A.B. 1937, and Miss Sydney
William Johnston were married April 27 at the Crawford
Street Methodist Church, Vicksburg, Mississippi.

 

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. J. L. Lockett, Jr. (B.A. 1929 and
M.A. 1930) are the parents of a son, born January 10,
1939. The Locketts live in Houston, Texas.

A son, Atherton Clark Lowry, was born March 20,
1939 to the Rev. AND Mrs. CHarLEs W. Lowry, Jr.
(B.A. 1926). The Rev. and Mrs. Lowry are at the Vir-
ginia Seminary in Alexandria.

In Memoriam

Tuomas E. Battie, who was one of the student
guards of honor at the bier of General Lee, died May 11
at Marlin, Falls County, Texas. He was a student at
Washington College-Washington and Lee from 1868 to
1871. Mr. Battle was ninety-one years old and was
founder and president of the First State Bank at Marlin;
he remained active in the business until several weeks be-
fore his death.

BENJAMIN FLourNoy, well known Washington ar-
chitect who received his C.E. from Washington and Lee
in 1897, died April 25 at his home in the capital. For the
past few years he had been senior architect in the office
of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury; he was a
close student of architecture and a magazine contributor
on the subject.

FERDINAND J. Watz, B.S. 1903, of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, died on October 23, 1938. Mr. Walz was a native
of Lexington, Virginia, and visited the Washington and
Lee campus shortly before his death.

 

Washington and Lee Plates

(Continued from page 10)

Treasurer's office, showing the old dormitories, Paradise
and Purgatory, students playing on the front lawn, the
ruins of Liberty Hall in the middle distance and House
Mountain dominating all.

DistincTiIvE First Epitrions: Collectors—or those
with the collector instinct—will be interested to know that
first edition plates will be designated by a back-stamp of
the official University seal, bearing the portraits of Lee
and Washington.

The designs may be ordered printed in Staffordshire
blue, mulberry, or green, so as to fit in with any scheme
of decoration. Each plate will be 10 and 11/16 inches in
diameter and thus suitable for use as either dinner or ser-
vice plate.

In anticipation of a large demand, the cost of the
Washington and Lee plates has been set at the low price
of $1.50 each, $12.00 for the complete set. There is no
packing charge, but express or postage is extra. Subscrip-
tions must be paid in advance.

 

THe Upper Potomac ALUMNI CHAPTER met at
Cumberland May 5 for a dinner meeting, with high school
seniors as guests. L. Leslie Homer, president of the
group, presided, with Billy Wilson acting as toastmaster
and introducing Dr. Walter A. Flick, head of psychology
and education department at Washington and Lee.

[20]

The cAlumni M Magazine, Washin gton and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1893

H. A. ALBRIGHT is sec-
retary and treasurer of Rob-
ertson and Company, whole-
sale grocers of Columbus,
Mississippi. Mr. Albright
was class agent for this

 

Some of the class notes used in this issue of
THE ALUMNI MaGazINE were taken from letters
received by the Alumni O ffice as long ago as last fall.
The editors ask your pardon if, as a result of this,
some inaccuracies are noted; we want, however, to
give you as many good class notes as possible.

W. Ross McCain is
president of the Aetna In-
surance Company of Hart-
ford, Connecticut.

D. C. SATTERWHITE has
been with Stanley H. Hor-
ner, Inc., Buick Cars, Wash-

 

 

class in 1893 and made a
fine job of it. He has been dreaming of a world-tour and
says he is rubbing up on his French, Spanish, German,
Japanese and Chinese.

ELIJAH FUNKHOUSER is Commander, Central Di-
vision, Sons of Confederate Veterans. His address is 7522
Eastlake Terrace, Chicago, Illinois. He has a farm five
miles out of Lexington where he spends part of each
summer.

H. WapbpELL Pratt is professor of philosophy and
theology in Columbia Bible College, Columbia, South
Carolina. He says, “I have more prospective foreign mis-
sionaries studying under me than are found in all the Pres-
byterian theological seminaries in the United States.”

1896

H. V. CANTER has completed his twenty-ninth year of
service in the University of Illinois.

WitiiAM D. Apams is in the insurance business in
Dallas, Texas. He is a regular reader of The Ring-tum
Phi, and is both scholastically and fraternally interested
in his Alma Mater. His residence address
is 1610 Seevers, Dallas, Texas.

PauL M. PENICK is treasurer of the
University and active and interested in
alumni affairs.

Mi, A\\ \

“4 |

1898

HrNry W. ANDERSON is a member of
the law firm of Hunton, Williams, Ander-

son, Gay and Moore, Electric Building, =

Richmond, Virginia. a
. . : ro

R. W. Hovr is chief accountant of the “MM We Kory

public schools of the District of Columbia.
His residence address is 1907 Kenyon
Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

4

Gi —

ington, D. C., since 1936.

Rosert W. Mayo is practicing law in Dallas, Texas,
with offices at 1108 Kirby Building.

1899

The typographical error creeps in at the most un-
wanted times ; sooner or later every publication falls prey
to it; THe ALumMNi MaGaziNE is no exception. In the
last issue of the magazine, two class notes of the class of
1899 were run together through the inadvertent dropping
of a line. The two notes should have appeared as follows:

CoLONEL BryAN Conrap, United States Army, re-
tired, lives at 601 East Grace Street, Richmond, Virginia.

CHARLES PHILIP SNYDER, rear admiral, United States
Navy, is president of the Naval War College, Newport,
Rhode Island. He has been in the Navy forty-two years.
He says: “If any of the old Washington and Lee men,
particularly of 1899, come this way, I will always be glad
to welcome them and show them this great governmental
institution, which they are probably not very familiar with
but which fills a most important niche in the government's
scheme for the national defense.”

H. B. CuermsipE is clerk of the circuit court of Char-
lotte County, Virginia. He reports that he
is well and happy and when not at work, is
raising roses and fishing.

W. C. Watson has been with the
N. Y.-N. H. & H. Railroad thirty-four
‘years. He has designed some fine bridges.

   

Dr. Gustav Capriro is practicing medi-
cine in Charleston, West Virginia.

1902

PauL V. BarTLert lives at 1113 Ridge
*Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He
writes: “I hold for Washington and Lee a
great reverence and respect, and a keen joy

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

that all the alumni of this great institution may reach ma-
terial heights with ever-increasing spiritual growth.”

D. E. Wirr is special agent for the New Hampshire
Fire Insurance Company, with offices in the Krise Build-
ing, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Joun P. WALL is practicing law at 5414 Leary Ave-
nue, Seattle, Washington.

Vernon T. Davis has been in the cotton business in
Jackson, Mississippi, since 1904, buying and selling raw
cotton. The business was started in 1872 by his father.

Metvitte A. Witson has practiced law at Fort
Meade, Florida, since his graduation. He has served his
city as mayor for five consecutive years.

Votnery M. Brown is a member of the law firm of
Brown & Brown, El Paso National Bank, 1 Paso, Texas.
He says: “It is a far cry from the days in 1898 when as a
green ranch youth fresh from my ‘boots and saddles’ from
the cow country in Southwest ‘Texas, north of the Frio, I
entered the portals of Washington and Lee, where I was
a student two of the most pleasant years of my life. I am
still interested in our old ranch properties, owned by my-
self and my brothers, located some sixty miles south of
San Antonio, yet I seldom go to the ranch. I am rather
closely confined to an active practice of the law.”

J. PowEtt Royat has been twice mayor of Tazewell,
Virginia, served two terms as state senator from districts
composed of Buchanan, Dickenson, Russell and Tazewell
Counties, and was commonwealth’s attorney for Tazewell
County from 1924 to 1928. He has a wife and nine chil-
dren—five boys and four girls.

1903

B. F. Comps is practicing law in the First National
Bank Building, Prestonsburg, Kentucky. He had a son in
the sophomore class last year.

P. V. LirrLepacs is in the chemical department of the
Norfolk and Western Railway Company, Roanoke, Va.

J. M. B. Git, after serving as an Episcopal Mission-
ary in China, and later as rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church in Petersburg, Virginia, has found the missionary
urge too strong. He is with the Missionary District of
Eastern Oregon. He says: ‘My work is quite interesting,
as I have a parish to cover which is as large as Massa-
chusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island, with a little room
left over. I minister to ranchers, cowboys, sheep herders
and to a congregation here in the little town of Lakeview.
Spend a great deal of my time in my car—it is nothing to

drive 175 miles to hold a service and Sunday School. This
little town is unique in one respect—an old bachelor left
a fund of nearly a million dollars to send boys and girls
graduating from Lake County High Schools to Oregon
universities and colleges, and every year fifteen graduates
from our high school get a chance at a college education ;
so we have a peculiarly cultured community.”

1904

K. I. McKay is a member of the law firm of McKay,
Macfarlane, Jackson and Ramsey of Tampa, Florida, with
offices in the Citrus Exchange Building, Tampa, Florida.
He has practiced in the courts from Justice of the Peace
to United States Supreme Court, and before various gov-
ernment departments and committees of Congress. He is
married and has a daughter and three sons. Sends his most
cordial regards to all members of the class of 1904.

Juuian F, BoucuE te is judge of the Thirteenth Ju-
dicial Circuit of West Virginia. His home is in Char-
leston.

ArtTHUR TABB is manager of the Tabb Storage Ware-
house, Freight Transfer Line, Louisville, Kentucky.

1905

LeWricut BRowNINc is engaged in the practice of
law, with offices at Ashland, Kentucky, and Maysville,
Kentucky. He lives at Ashland, Kentucky.

1906

B. J. Meyer is practicing law under the firm name of
Lovejoy and Meyer, LaGrange, Georgia.

CLaupE Licut is prosecuting attorney of Wood
County, West Virginia, at Parkersburg, West Virginia.
Has been an elder in the First Presbyterian Church for
the past four years, and teaches a class of senior high and
grads in the senior department of the Sunday School. He
is secretary of the local Washington and Lee alumni group
of Parkersburg. Was married recently.

ALBERT STEVES, JR., has had three out of his four
sons in college at Washington and Lee, the third now in
his fourth year.

Jas. R. Caskiz, member of the University board of
trustees as well as of the executive committee of that
body, gets to Lexington frequently, where he is always
welcomed by his many friends.

1907

TuHEoporE B. BENSON is practicing law in the South-
ern Building, Washington, D. C.

[22]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1908

James M. O'BRIEN is practicing law in Los Angeles,
California, with offices Mezzanine Suite—817 South
Western Avenue. He has a daughter working in the mov-
ies under the name of Jane Bryan.

GrorcE E. Cary is practicing law in Gloucester, Va.

Ropert R. Gray is minister of the Union and Salem
Presbyterian Churches, Union, West Virginia.

Pui Paces is with the Chicago Journal of Commerce
and LaSalle Street, 12 East Grand Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Is active in work with the Washington
and Lee alumni group.

F. F. MiLvtsaps was recently presi-
dent of the Louisiana Bankers Associa-
tion. He is connected with the Quachita
National Bank of Monroe, Louisiana.

JAMES K. GUTHRIE, eye, ear, nose /
and throat specialist of Martinsburg, *
West Virginia, says there hasn’t been
any change in his affairs since his prev-
ious letter. The two boys, fourteen and
fifteen, rode their bicycles from Mar-
tinsburg to Fremont, Nebraska, last
summer, sleeping out of doors.

niente
S aC ;
= f=5); rf y Ig a
wal nr . a
Ee Tat ore eet
v 50) OES SP .
iz TL
; ; Se
AP- y

J. S. Lone is superintendent of the Water Department
of the city of Tampa, Florida.

1909

ELLioTtr VAWTER is secretary of Barrows & Company,
Inc., Miners and Shippers, Steam, Gas, By-Products and
Domestic Coal, First Huntington National Bank Build-
ing, Huntington, West Virginia.

Jos. T. Lyk&s, president of the Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., is vice-president of Lykes Brothers, Inc.,
Steamship Operators, 17 Battery Place, New York.

1910

W. L. TiLpEN is president of the Florida Citrus Ex-
change of Tampa, Florida. His home is at Orlando.

Joun R. Tucker, JRr., is a member of the law firm of
Tucker & Mason, Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana. Mr. Tucker was on the program
for the dedication of the new law building at Louisiana
State University, his subject being “The Future of the
Civil Law in Louisiana.”

Puitip W. Murray is practicing law in Newport

 

News, Virginia. His firm is Lett, Murray and Ford, with
offices in the First National Bank Building, Newport
News, Virginia.

Dr. G. R. Fortson is a physician and surgeon, Susan-
ville, California.

1911

Henry W. Dew has been enjoying life in Jackson-
ville, Florida, since 1929. He is married and has four
children. Says he can’t find anything to complain about,
which he is pleased to say is the general state of most of
the inhabitants of his sunshiny state. He
is with the Florida National Building
Corporation, 1514 Barnett Building,
Jacksonville, Florida.

J. Paxton Barciay is manager of
the Midwest District of The Pure Oil
Company, The Pure Oil Building, 35
East Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.
He and his wife were in Lexington in
the early summer, renewing old friend-
ships.

E. W. ForeMAN is assistant to the
general superintendent of the Bayway
Refinery of the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey. He is married and has a son twenty-one
years old, who graduated from Washington and Lee this
year and has entered the Law School. He lives in Eliza-
beth, New Jersey.

M. E. Kurt is a member of the law firm of An-
drews, Kelly, Kurth and Campbell, Culf Building, Hous-
ton, Texas. He has two daughters and a son.

L. L. HumMpuHreys is president of the Security Na-
tional Bank of Duncan, Oklahoma.

GrorGE MunseEy WEs‘on lives at Swanquarter, North
Carolina. Says he still has the same drawing instruments
he used at Washington and Lee and they are prized relics
to him.

WILLIAM Paxton is president of the Rockingham
Chemical Lime Corporation, Linville, Virginia. Since his
graduation in 1911 he has been connected with the same
business continuously, with the exception of a year and
a half in the Army, and has held all the jobs from office
boy up to president.

E. B. Lemon is a member of the firm of Wendel-
Lemon, Inc., Rental Agents, 26 West Kirk Avenue, Roa-
noke, Virginia.

[23]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. P. Jackson is in the insurance business in Tampa,
Florida, representing the American Casualty Company.
His address is 612% Florida Avenue, Tampa, Florida.

R. E. LAYMAN after farming and doing Y. M. C. A.
work for a while, took his Master’s degree at Vanderbilt
University, then in Y. M. C. A. work and teaching for
five years, and since that time has been farming near
Swope, Virginia. The Laymans have three boys, two in
high school and one in graded school.

S. R. Gammon is head of the history department of
the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, Col-
lege Station, Texas. He has two sons.

1912

H. L.. Crowcey is teaching school at Pocahontas, Vir-
ginia. He has one married daughter, one son and daugh-
ter graduated from Emory and Henry College last June,
and two younger sons.

WitiAM J. WiLcox is a member of the firm of Sny-
der, Wert and Wilcox of Allentown, Pennsylvania.

WittiAmM Hopcrs Mann, Jr., of Petersburg, Vir-
ginia, looks no different than he did twenty-five years ago.
Claims he has kept out of politics. Is commissioner in
chancery and writes that his fees have ranged from one
broom to $25,000, with a dog and a shotgun in between.

Joun S. SHERERTZ lives in Roanoke, Virginia, where
he has been quite successful.

B. C. Moomaw, Jr., is secretary of the Chamber of
Commerce, Covington, Virginia, working hard for good
roads and industries and trying to make a profit out of
growing apples, ‘the king of fruits.”

Witxtiam A. Hyman is still pursuing the hectic life
of one engaged in the trial of cases, added to which he
has the duties of chairman of the Insurance Committee of
the Trade and Commerce Bar Association, vice-chairman
of the Insurance Committee of the American Bar Asso-
ciation in New York, as well as doing that kind of work
which ultimately devolves upon all who feel they must
render a certain service to the community and not be con-
tent with merely doing something for one’s family and
one’s self.

Pin WEBSTER is president of the Webster Motor Sales
Company, Inc., 1044-1046 State Street, Schenectady, New
York.

GerorceE W. StaPLeEs is a retired minister of the Meth-
odist Church, living in Ashland, Virginia.

C. Lee OrpeMAN has been treasurer and a member
of the board of directors of the Mead Sales Company,
Inc., 230 Park Avenue, New York, for the last nine years.
Expects to send his two sons to Washington and Lee.

Dan Moucer has been practicing law since taking his
LL. B. from West Virginia University in 1915 in Char-
leston, West Virginia. His offices are in the Security Bank
Building. He is married and has three children, two boys
and a girl.

T. P. Rick lives at 718 Farmington Avenue, Hartford,
Connecticut.

PauL A. RocKweE Lt, 142 Hillside Street, Asheville,
North Carolina, spends his summers on his farm.

H. E. Porrer, after service overseas in the World
War, in which he was severely wounded, returned to
Philadelphia and studied law at the University of Penn-
sylvania, and was graduated in 1923. He is practicing his
profession in the Integrity Building, 1528 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia.

1913

S. W. Mayruppy lives at 1712 N. W. Thirty-eighth
Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

Rosert B. Apams is practicing law in Roanoke, Va.

1914

Dr. WiLt1AM MosELEy Brown, 924 West End Ave-
nue, New York, is director of personnel for Vick Chemi-
cal Company. His offices are in the Channin Building, 122
East Forty-second Street, New York.

D. C. BucHANAN, Ichijori, Muromacjo Nishi, Kyoto,
Japan, missionary of the Presbyterian Church in the
United States. He has four children, George (16), Dan-
iel, Jr. (14), Katherine (12), and Margaret Ann (8).
The oldest boy is finishing his second year of high school
and on graduation hopes to enter the engineering school
of the University of Michigan where he plans to spe-
cialize in automotive engineering. The second boy is a
freshman at high school and may enter Washington and
Lee four years later. The two girls will enter their moth-
er’s alma mater, Wellesley College.

1915

LESLIE ANDERSON lives in Mayfield, Kentucky. His
address is 620 Chappell Court. Promised to write his class
agent the history of his life but didn’t get to it.

O. B. BARKER, JR., is with the Barker-Jennings Hard-
ware Corporation, Manufacturers and Jobbers of Hard-
ware, Lynchburg, Virginia.

[24]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Howarp Stuck is owner and operator of the Piggly
Wiggly Jonesboro Company, Jonesboro, Arkansas. He
and his brother also own and operate a brick plant. He 1s
an elder and church treasurer, and has many outside in-
terests which keep him happy and busy. He has a son and
daughter.

1916

N. C. Evans is with Kaufman-Straus Company, de-
partment store, Louisville, Kentucky. He married Eliza-
beth Oakey of Salem, Virginia, and they have a daugh-
ter fifteen and a “Chick, Jr.” thirteen, who are headed for
Hollins and Washington and Lee, respec-
tively.

J. E. Buck ey is practicing law at
Marlinton, West Virginia. Both of his
children are girls, the eldest a graduate of
West Virginia University and the younger
of Michigan.

es
~“

Sam KoueEN is chief of the Claims
Division of the Veterans’ Administration,
Regional Office in Dallas. He also main-

|

I

   
  

Epwarp L. Hrx has recently changed his address to
4214 Washington Street, Niagara Falls, New York. He
is with the Union Carbide Company, Unit of Union Car-
bide and Carbon Corporation, Niagara Works, Niagara
Falls, New York, with offices at Carbide and Carbon
Building, 30 East Forty-second Street, New York.

Harry CAMPBELL is a member of the law firm of
Blue, Dayton and Campbell, Security Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

J. Stypert HaAnseEv lives in Monterey, Highland
County, Virginia, known as the “Switzerland of Amer-
ica.’ That reminds him “to remind all
overworked alumni who may chance to
find themselves sweltering with the heat
this summer, and who may crave that old
feeling of the blankets scratching at night,
to come to Highland for their vacations,
for we guarantee that anyone will need
two to six blankets in Monterey any night
in the summer.” Mr. Hansel is an attor-
ney and counsellor at law.

CHARLIE PETERS is practicing law in

ae ; a an where he engages in a AIT ae = Charleston, West Virginia. His firm is

ae alee aar “WI LA LL .~=Mohier, Peters and Snyder, with offices

Cryp—E H. MILLER practices law in ——_. in the Security Bank Building. He says:
.—,

—_—

West Side Building and Loan Building,
Third and Broadway, Dayton, Ohio. He is married and
has a son sixteen years old.

Joun M. Raines is manager of The Travelers Insur-
ance Company in Little Rock, Arkansas, with offices in
the Donaghey Building.

Harrison P. MAGRUDER teaches in the Millersburg
Military School, Millersburg, Kentucky.

1917

Emory O. Lussy lives at 1134 Willetta Street, Phoe-
nix, Arizona. He has a position with the Federal Land
Bank. Has territory in Southern California and Arizona.
Married a Tennessee girl and has three children.

Dr. G. Hotsrook Barser is practicing medicine at
57 South Oxford Street, Brooklyn, New York.

Dr. CHARLES W. MeNirr is practicing medicine at
114 East Sixty-second Street, New York, New York. He
has gradually worked over from general medicine into
the special field of dermatology. Has recently opened a
branch office in White Plains. For diversion he has been
riding and for the past five years has been a member of
the Squadron A Cavalry organized in New York.

“There is little news of myself worth re-
cording—a smattering of politics for pleasure and the
practice of law for a living, with darn little success in
either, continue as about the sum total of my efforts and
endeavors. With the exception of a few grey hairs where
once there were many dark ones, a rather extended mid-
dle age spread, I remain with practically the same appear-
ance, habits, ideas, attitudes and propensities.”

1918

E. B. Bowyer is commercial manager of the Roanoke
Gas Light Company. Has been transferred all the way
from Tampa, Florida, to New York, to the Carolinas and
to Virginia.

Murray C. SHown is in the branch office of Beer &
Company, Brokers, with offices in the Grant Building, At-
lanta, Georgia.

Grapy H. Forcy has a home in Little Rock, Arkansas,
where his family stays the greater part of the year, while
he has been covering the entire country east of the Rocky
Mountains during the last two and a half years. He is
special representative of American Petroleum Industries
Committee, 50 West Fiftieth Street, New York. This
company is best described from the layman’s point of view
as the ‘Public Relations Department of the Oil Industry.”

[25 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

It is a committee of the American Petroleum Institute
charged with authority and responsibility to protect the
petroleum industry, its employees, products and custo-
mers from inimical and unfair taxation and legislation as
well as unjust and/or unnecessary regulations and re-
strictions. The American Committee is the national or a
parent organization and has offices in New York, Wash-
ington, Chicago and Los Angeles. His son, Grady H., Jr.,
was a freshman at Washington and Lee last year.

1919

Dr. Gites S. Terry is practicing medicine in Scars-
dale, New York. His address is Eton Hall Apartment.

W. J. Barron is with the Rome Coca-Cola Bottling
Company, 106-108 Fifth Avenue, Rome, Georgia.

1920

PINKNEY Grissom was recently elected president of
the North Texas group of Washington and Lee alumni.
He is a member of the law firm of Thompson, Knight,
Baker, Harris, and Wright of Dallas Texas, with offices
in the Republic Bank Building.

Fapyjo CRAVENS is a member of the law firm of Cra-
vens, Cravens and Friedman, Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Ep. BAILEy lives at’°1600 Monument Avenue, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Henry Forp Trorrer, who in college probably wear-
ily answered to the name of “‘Jitney” or “Tin Lizzie,’ has
neatly turned the tables on the jokesmiths by establish-
ing in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, a thriving business in the
sales of Ford and Lincoln cars. He has five children rang-
ing in age from six weeks to fifteen years.

Bos RussELL writes from Amite, Louisiana, where he
has been principal and supervisor of city schools for some
years.

HotmEs Racston of Rockbridge Baths, Virginia,
close “by the banks of old North River,” writes us that
he now has three children. During last winter he spent
some time at Princeton in preparation for delivering the

Sprunt lectures at the Union Theological Seminary in
1942.

The Valedictorian of the class of 1920, JouN WortH
KERN, JR., resigned from his post as mayor of Indianapo-
lis, Indiana, in September, 1937, and accepted President
Roosevelt’s appointment as a member of the United States
Board of Tax Appeals at Washington.

Joun GLEN Evans, Jr., originally from the “Red
Hills of Georgia,” has for some time been vice-president

and general manager of the Lykes Brothers Insurance
Agency of Tampa, Florida. He takes The Ring-tum Phi
and thus keeps in close touch with Washington and Lee.
Glen’s hobbies are golf and aviation (he has a pilot’s
license ).

From the city of Shreveport, Louisiana, comes a most
welcome letter from J. B. Arxrins. He tells us that he
served in the Naval Air Service during the World War
at Seattle, Washington, and returned to Shreveport where
he went into the oil business (Shreveport is the center of
large gas and oil fields). He married Miss Katherine Alger
and they have three children, ranging in age from four
to thirteen.

ALEX M. WALKER, former manager of The Ring-tum
Phi, one time attache at the American Embassy in Lon-
don and in Madrid, is now with the SEC in Washington.
He and his family have been living at 2401 Calvert Street,
Washington, but we believe he has never forgotten the
pines of the old North State (he was originally from
Wilmington, North Carolina) and is now considering
building a home in nearby suburban Maryland as the most
practical substitute for New Hanover County on the Cape
Fear River.

1921

D. BoonE Dawson is mayor of Charleston, West Vir-
ginia. He is always interested in Washington and Lee.

SAM RaAINEs is practicing medicine at 1834 Madison
Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee. He has a daughter, Lucy
Virginia, born August 5, 1937. He was recently made a
Fellow in the American College of Surgeons.

Dan Bain has been practicing psychiatry at 129 East
Sixty-ninth Street, New York, New York, since 1932.
He married Sarah Logan Starr of Germantown Philadel-
phia and they have a young son, Daniel Blain IV. When
this young man enters Washington and Lee he will be the
sixth consecutive generation receiving his education here.

Davip DEAN JOHNSON is located in the Bendum Trees
Building, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

1922

T. K. Fountain left the practice of law to enter poli-
tics and in May, 1933, was elected commissioner of pub-
lic safety for the city of Raleigh, North Carolina. He mar-
ried Dora Howell Jones and they have a son, T. K. Foun-
tain, Jr., born October 14, 1937. They have recently moved
into a new home. In addition to his other interests he and
his brother are running some two thousand acres of farms
in Eastern Carolina.

[26]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Witrrep Wess has been teaching at Augusta Mili-
tary Academy since 1924. He is married and has two
daughters, eight and ten years old, respectively.

Dr. ANDREW E. AMICK is practicing his profession as
a children’s doctor in Charleston, West Virginia. He has
two daughters and regrets that they will have to attend
Sweet Briar instead of Washington and Lee.

W. H. Barretr has been principal of the Narrows
High School at Narrows, Virginia, for the past nine years.
During this period a new high school has been built with
a zood auditorium and gymnasium and also
a farm shop for vocational agriculture.

RAYMONP SMITH is a New York broker
with Biggs, Mohrman and Company, 61
Broadway, New York.

JEAN ELLIs is practicing law in Miami
Florida, with offices in
Building.

, rs.

the Ingraham

Oscar Forrest McGILv is assistant
manager of the State Mortgage Loan Department, Pru-
dential Insurance Company, Lakeland, Florida.

1924

Buck BAUGHER practiced law in Miami from 1926 to
1929 and then moved to West Palm Beach. In 1934 he be-
came associated with the firm of Williamson and Cain of
West Palm Beach, and in 1935 was made a member of
the firm, which is now known as Williamson, Cain and
Baugher. He was married on August 25, 1933, to Mary
Church of West Palm Beach.

D. O. MircH ELL was located at Clarksburg, West Vir-
ginia, for the past nine years, and in September, 1936,
moved to Parkersburg, West Virginia. He is practicing
law, is married, and has two children.

Jot CLay Roserts is director of the Little Theatre
Producing Company in San Antonio, Texas, where he
practices law.

Murrev D. (Lerry) Kern is a member of the firm
of Klein & Appel, Insurance Underwriters and Engineers,
Starke Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

FRANKLIN Warp is in the municipal bond business,
specializing in Mississippi bonds. His firm is M. A. Saun-
ders and Company, 14 South Second Street, Memphis,
Tennessee.

   

CALBIN T. BurTon is an eye, ear, nose and throat spe-
cialist in Roanoke, Virginia, with offices in the Medical
Arts Building.

CHARLIE HEILIG is manager of the Taylor Mattress
Company, Salisbury, North Carolina. Says he married a
nice girl named Mary and they have a son.

1926

CLARENCE W. (Fats) MEAbows is attorney general
of the state of West Virginia, holding down the job va-
cated by “Rocky” Holt when he became
Governor of West Virginia.

1927

LeIGuH BULLOCK, JR., is with the Hanes
Associated Mills, Inc., 271 Church Street,
New York, New York.

L. G. McKInNON is in the hardware
business in Greenville, Alabama. He has a
fine son, [vuther, III.

1928

IRVIN CUBINE is practicing law in Martinsville, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Shackelford Building.

LESTER A. Brown is practicing medicine in Atlanta,
Georgia. His offices are in the Doctors’ Building.

1929

Lewis F. PowE Lt, JR., is a member of the law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore, Electric
Building, Richmond, Virginia.

O. Norris SMITH is practicing medicine in Greens-
boro, North Carolina. On November 10, 1937, he mar-
ried Rebecca Hines of Mount Airy and Winston-Salem.

W. C. P. (CHucK) WEAVER is married and has a
boy about two years old. He is with the Emporia Manu-
facturing Company, Emporia, Virginia.

CHARLIE MERCKE is with the Jefferson Wood Work-
ing Company, Louisville, Kentucky. He is secretary-
treasurer of the Louisville Washington and Lee alumni.

1930

I’, L.. SHIPMAN is practicing law in Troy, Ohio, un-
der the firm name of Shipman & Shipman, Peoples Build-
ing and Savings Building. He is married and has a son
five and a daughter two.

MELVILLE JENNINGS was recently elected one of the

[27]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

commissioners for Walton County, Florida, having de-
feated the incumbent by a substantial majority.

Carv YoRENZ is practicing medicine in Ambler, Penn-
sylvania, and enjoys farming as a hobby. He is a member

of many medical societies and also of his local Rotary
Club.

Jim Hess was married October 22, 1937, to Mrs. Mil-
dred I. Riddle of Charleston, West Virginia. They are
living at Niagara Falls, New York.

Hupson Faussett is in Hollywood; he has appeared
in three pictures.

1931

MANUEL WEINBERG is practicing law in Frederick,
Maryland, with offices in the Law Building. He is mar-
ried and has two children, a boy four and a girl two.

R. J. Turirt, JR., is assistant prosecuting attorney of
Fayette County, Fayetteville, West Virginia. The prose-
cuting attorney is Cart B. Vickers, B.A. 1933, LL.B.
1934.

Britt Rucker took his medical course at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and has been practicing in Bedford,
Virginia, for the past two years.

J. Hocr (Jimmy) TYLER is assistant commonwealth’s
attorney for Norfolk, Virginia. He has been married about
two years.

Joun W. Myrose is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Dalhart, Texas. He was married in June, 1937,
to Catherine Hallowell of Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Tom Fox is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia. Is at
present engaged in making and renewing abstracts of title
for lands being acquired for the United States for the Jef-
ferson National Forest.

E. W. Hate, Jr., is in the Library of the House of
Representatives, Washington, D. C.

FraNK HANNA is a member of the firm of Mumford
and Hanna Investment Company, 509 Francis Street, St.
Joseph, Missouri.

1932

Paut A. (Jerry) HOLsTEIN is practicing law in Lex-
ington, Virginia. He was recently elected president of the
Lexington Chamber of Commerce.

CHARLIE Woop is managing director of the Kanawha
Valley Safety Council, City Building, Charleston, West
Virginia.

GEORGE PRICE is with the Occupational Research Pro-
gram of the United States Employment Service. He was

recently an usher, along with “Big Island” Routon in the
wedding of Gus Cross. “Big Island” is with the Depart-
ment of Justice. George’s address is 701 Whittier Street,
N. W., Washington.

Dick PARMALEE is manager of the Colgate Inn at
Hamilton, New York. He has recently been elected to the
office of district governor for the New York and Penn-
sylvania district for his fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon.
He married Elizabeth Louise Basse of Oak Park, Illinois.

1933

BERNARD B. (Dusty) Davis writes that he is with the
splendid law firm of Gilbert & Davis and has been ever
since he left school, that his partner is a popular and able
lawyer.

Bos Morris has been with General Motors Accept-
ance Corporation for the past two years. He is married
and has a two-year-old boy.

ALLEN WorForp is special agent of the Prudential In-
surance Company of America at Johnson City, Tenn.

Sam STEVEs is in the family lumber business in San
Antonio, ‘Texas—Steves Sash and Door Company.

H. C. Taycor is in his father’s business, Taylor, Low-

enstein and Company, Naval Stores Factors and Export-
ers, Mobile, Alabama.

R. C. DeELA Merer is agent of the Detroit Fire and
Marine Insurance Company, 1913 Key Boulevard, Ar-
lington, Virginia.

Lorinc M. Garrison is with Crane and Company,
Greenville, South Carolina.

1934
Roser? B. SAFForD is assistant cashier with the Trav-
elers Insurance Company, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

Norwoop E. BAnp is associate minister of the Sec-
ond Presbyterian Church, Newark, New Jersey.

1935

RupoLpH BUMGARDNER, JR., opened up law offices in
Staunton, Virginia, with Dick Peyton the summer after
graduation.

D. S. MacDonaL_p, JR., is practicing law in Durant,
Oklahoma, under the firm name of MacDonald and Mac-
Donald.

1936
At Kaun, Jr., has been in the Harvard Medical
School for three years.

[28]

-_-

treat
4g Sia Cast
rt ie
me aioe we pos

rs .
~ ws 4

mer I

i ~-s

he 2 bo
5

aoe a

ey

a> at as

tay

ry

 

te se Bae ea


