The WASHING]

Washington and Lee University

<ahat ble: MIM tS

\

' TRRARYV Tz

‘

‘

 

ae

9) yas

7%

‘ . + nM ayry
is iN J \ mmo tL XY

  

he ae * ete Me: acm, ee ie

A, een
SAC a SF vik. Ao Leo P87

<0 EO eel

December 193'7

 

 

 

 

_AIL-

INVESTMENT

cA

A subscription to the Washington and Lee
Alumni Magazine will prove a good invest-
ment in memory; the Alumni Magazine will
keep alive your memories of the University,
and will keep you “in touch” with old friends

and classmates.

SUBSCRIPTION

Tue Alumni Magazine is issued five times
each scholastic year, the “‘climax issue’? com-
ing in early summer and containing all the
news of finals and a resume of the year’s activi-

ties. The cost of a year’s subscription is only

$2.50.

Subscribe, and get your friends to subscribe, to

The —Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Herbert G. Peters, Bristol, Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
James H. Penick, W. B. Worthen Co., Little
Rock.

Atlanta, Georgia

Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.
Baltimore, Maryland

L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.
Birmingham, Alabama

W. L. Hogue, 306 Court House.
Charleston, West Virginia

John Morrison, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee

John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago

Phillip P. Page, 12 East Grand Avenue.
Cincinnati

Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.
Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.
Cumberland Valley Association

C. Wells Little, Hagerstown, Md.
Dallas, Texas

George McClure, Republic Nat’! Bank Bldg.
Detroit, Michigan

Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast Association

K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Bldg., Tampa,

Florida.
Gulf Stream Association

Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla.
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Reed Graves, 300 Warwick Lane.
Louisville, Kentucky

John J. Davis, Ky. Home Life Bldg.
Memphis, Tennessee

George L. Powers, Jr., The Sterick Building.
New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue.
New Orleans, Louisiana

Herbert S. Jahncke, 5529 Johnson Street.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Law Building.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.
Piedmont Association

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.
Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Richmond, Virginia

Matt Wiltshire, R. F. D. 2.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County Association

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California

Los Angeles
St. Louis, Missouri

John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.
Tri-State Association

Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.

Dozier DeVane, Federal Power Commission.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XIII DECEMBER 1937 No. 2

 

Fditor..................... Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

RicHARD P. CARTER, 1929

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Managing Editor

President ... -.cssteeee.. CLARENCE L. SAGER, 1914
Vice-President Kir Witurams, 1915
SOCTOROFY...........c,0: Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Treasurer StTuArtT Moore, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
JouN Bett TowiLt, 1929
Jor T. Lyxes, 1909
H. H. LArtMore, 1896
NORMAN FitzHucH, 1898

 

Contents for December 1937

PAGE
Contribution to Public Service (The President's Page).......... 3
Vv mere tOn Cae ities ssicsivesvevestls cds. tas-.-chceeae 4
Two Portraits To Be Given University..........0..00.cccceceseeeeees 5
An Alummtis: Becas (reneral: 160... 0... .55.65 6 ocsc.s.c eel 6
A Memorial to Lamar Porter............. bed Se oe eee 7
New Organ Dedicated in Lee Chapel...............00ccccccccceceseeees 8
Model of Famous Lee Statue Given University...... Ls ee 9
hate. BQmmetnalt Tensoe Tene ge | ss. isi. iss) bs, .as scabs 1]
A Review of the 1937 Football Season ......0.....0000......... jg: See
Chats With Your Friends and Mine ........... ick aksbaees kes Be Se 15
Local Alumni Associntion Note 2. ..:.. 6. 5.<csccsccs classe coscucentetin's 17

i TT ih ee oer oo ee eee a Ge ae

 

 

—.
Tasd

—_e. *
c me
a

Sas

ame

eo,

. “"s
wen

 

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Contribution to Public Service
(The President’s Page)

ONSIDERABLE newspaper publicity has recently been
€ given to the statement by the dean of a leading
American law school indicating that his institution is pre-
pared to afford greatly enlarged emphasis upon training
for public life. This departure, as I understand
it, frankly recognizes the ancient importance of
public service and also the new range of profes-
sional opportunity represented in such work.
Certainly from the number of new positions
created in various governmental agencies we
may assume that the dean has pointed out one
of the major professional opportunities.

*x* * *

Washington and Lee has always been proud
of its contribution to public service. Compari-
sons are difficult and delicate, but it is probably
true that if there is one point at which in proportion to its
size this institution from its very beginning to the present
day has exerted the greatest influence upon contemporary
life it would be in this matter of public service largely de-
fined. As I write these words I am mindful of the fact that
probably more men from this institution hold positions of
significant public trust or exercise power over public opin-
ion than from any other school of even approximately the

same size.
xk x x

It is my earnest hope that this tradition may be con-
tinued. Surely it is an honorable distinction to feel that
Washington and Lee, somewhat apart from the great cen-
ters of activity, has nevertheless sent a continuing stream
of men with power of impulse into the currents of public
life.

te

But to be continued the tradition should also be en-
larged. It is obvious that important as are the services of
the lawyer and the public official, the huge problems of
our citizenship will not be solved by any small element of
that citizenship and must not be interpreted as belonging
exclusively to any particular branch of the college-trained
men. An understanding of these problems and a resolute
committal of energy to their solution should be a feature
of all education.

Bee ot

[t is probable that the generation now in college—

though this has been said of many generations—will face

 

-

graver problems than any we have yet known. They may
not be new problems, but they will be presented with an
intensity and with a timeliness that will call for almost ul-
timate wisdom.
oe ee

No generation, for example, has been faced
with the international problem in such measure
as this generation must know it. With the na-
tions more closely related, with the causes of
national jealousy more far reaching in effect,
with the increasing cost and horror and futility
of war, this generation bears a tremendous bur-
den of thought and of action.

*K 2K *

The theory and practice of our government,
moreover, will bear down upon the intelligence
of this generation with increased gravity. Between the two
extremes of despotism and of communism, the same ex-
tremes in essence that we have always faced, though the
names may be new, lies the central effort to establish rep-
resentative and constitutional government. It was difficult
in Madison’s day and it is even more difficult in our day
to define and to achieve the compromise that will guaran-
tee individual security on the one hand, and the necessi-
ties of an organized society on the other. This generation
of students will face more pressure from both extremes
and will find more obscurity upon the path of this central
progress than any other group has known.

2K *K 2K

If such a broad definition of citizenship as has here
been implied be accepted as valid, then the relation of the
individual to governmental problems and procedures be-
comes vastly more than a chance to get a job or a chance
to earn the distinction of a great career; it is a kind of
desperate obligation ; indeed it might be classified
to consecration.

as a call
* 3S *

[ could wish that this institution, possessor of a proud
usefulness in the past, might receive some special endow-
ment that would enable us to develop a program of in-
quiry and of appraisal that would challenge the finest en-
thusiasm as well as the finest intelligence of every boy.

| Siathe foes ye

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Washington College in 1823

N UMEROUS changes have taken place at Washington

and Lee University in the past century ; these trans-
formations are made real for many alumni, however, only
when a contrast is formed between the old and the new.
The following sketch, reprinted from the Rockbridge
County News, paints a picture of the Washington and
Lee—Washington College—of 1823. The sketch is from
an address delivered by Colonel T. J. L. Preston before
alumni on June 25, 1878; it follows:

Picture to yourself unimproved the present building
and two others much smaller on the east and west, just
where now stand the extreme dormitories and be careful
to add nothing to their present architectural effect. Let the
grounds stretch out their rough extent to the full present
limit. Remove all the buildings, President’s house, E,pisco-
pal Church, Chapel, and all the Professors’ houses, and
along with them the monumental shaft on the east and the
trees that now afford their classic share, all but two or
three of the old locusts in front of the building.

In place of the buildings in imagination demolished,
put up one or two others, a frame house on the site of the
President's house, which sheltered our President (“Old
Rex,”’ we called him) and his family. It has since been
converted to business and stands as a tenement house on
Shields Hill. The other must be a low, one-story brick
building squatting down just on the sight of the entrance
gate as you come from the direction of Odd Fellows’ Hall.
It was before my day, the Mess Hall, or Blue Hotel, of the
College and at the time I speak of, served for a carpen-
ter’s shop. Now you have before you the locus of our
academy.

Our college year was divided into two terms of five
months, with a vacation of a month allowed to each. These
vacations fell in April and October to suit the meetings of
the Presbyteries. Two glorious months for us. Spring
with its freshness and fishing (some of the boys had to
plant corn), and autumn with its fruitage and hunting.
Did summer study hurt us? Not at all. We were smart
enough to keep out of the way of the sun and study, too.

Our curriculum, taken from that of Princeton, was a
close one, without any elections in it, and only the simple
A. B. degree was inscribed upon its goal. A. M. was con-
ferred as an honorary degree two years later upon all
graduates who had behaved themselves in the meantime.

Our professors were three, and a tutor provided for
the preps. “Grammar Tackles” was the designation we as-
signed to them. Dr. George A. Baxter, as President;

Henry Ruffner, Professor of Languages, and Edward
Graham, Esq., Professor of Natural Philosophy and
Chemistry, composed the faculty.

Our mathematical as prescribed, was Algebra, six
books of Euclid Trigonometry, including heights and dis-
tances, surveying, conic sections, particularly the proper-
ties of parabola and projections. In Natural Philosophy,
our textbook was Cavalos’ Philosophy, originally in 1803.

In Chemistry we studied Mrs. B’s Conversations. Nat-
ural History did not enter into our course, though accord-
ing to a story current in my day, there seems to have been
a need for it. It was told that one of the boys caught on
Woods Creek a muskrat and brought it to exhibit to the
professor, who after careful examination, pronounced it
a nondescript.

In Latin we studied Ruddiman’s Grammar and Mair’s
Introduction, and read more copiously than is the practice
now, the usual course of classics.

In Greek, our course was more limited; we studied
Valpy’s Grammar, and had but two textbooks, ‘Grecan
Minova” and “Grecan Majoria,’ two graded compila-
tions from classic authors. Our Greek Lexicon gave all its
definitions in Latin, a good practice for us, but rather
rough.

We had instructions also by the President, Rhetoric
and the Law of Nations, using Vattel as a textbook. Be-
fore my time, as I learn from the old records, there was a
department of the Science of Human Nature. What was
taught, or how, under this comprehensive title, | have no
means of knowing. We had the Graham and Washington
Societies, and in them found great pleasure and no small
profit. The societies were secret. But there existed no
other secret societies or fraternities, and all our enthusi-
asm was concentrated here ; and here was our only field of
eager, but generous rivalry.

Our annual commencements were so unelaborate that
if I should describe them, you might smile at their sim-
plicity. But they were full of hearty enjoyment, with their
homemade music—a few flutes and violins, a Latin salu-
tatory and Lachrymose Valedictory, separated by the in-
terposition of no end of graduating speeches, listened to
with a decorum that is unfashionable now by a sympa-
thizing crowd.

Then in those days the girls were so lovely. Should I
describe them, you young men would feel that you had
been badly treated by Father Time that you had not been
graduated fifty years ago. So at least they looked to a
youth of sixteen.

[4]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

G. Watson James

 

Judge C. C. Garrett

Two Portraits To Be Given University

NE of the most outstanding Founder’s Day pro-
C3 grams of many years has been arranged for Jan-
uary 19, 1938. It will include an address by Sir Herbert
Ames, and the presentation of portraits of two distin-
guished alumni to the University.

Sir Herbert, formerly financial director of the League
of Nations and one of the most prominent figures in the
held of international affairs, will speak at the Founder’s
Day assembly. He will be introduced by President Gaines.

The portraits to be formally presented to Washington
and Lee are those of G. Watson James and Judge C. C.
Garrett—both of them were students at Washington Col-
lege while General Lee was its president.

Dr. James was born in Richmond, Virginia, Novem-
ber 20, 1846, and received his education first in the classi-
cal schools of the Virginia capital, then at Washington
College, which he entered in the fall of 1862. In 188]
Washington and Lee conferred upon him the degree
of doctor of letters; records show it was the first time
that degree had been conferred by Washington College.

| 9

Dr. James, soldier and editor, spent the greater part of
his life in editorial work on the old Enquirer, the old Dis-
patch, and the News Leader
papers. He was the last editor of the Enquirer. At the

all of them Richmond news-

 

time of his death he was a member of the Royal Victoria
Institute of London and an honorary member of the New
York Historical Society.

The James portrait was done by William Polk Dillon.
It was on exhibit for a brief time at the Academy of Sci-
ences and Fine Arts in Richmond.

Judge C. C. Garrett of Texas, subject of the other por-
trait, was awarded his A.
College in 1869.

He became, subsequently, judge of the Texas Court of

B. degree from Washington

Appeals, and served at one time as president of the Texas
alumni of Washington and Lee.

Judge Garrett's record is one of the outstanding ju-
dicial records in the long and colorful history of the state
of Texas. He died in 1905.

(Continued on page 8)

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

An Alumnus Recalls General Lee

pore S. Noreveet, of Roxobel, North Carolina,
who was a student at Washington College when Gen-
eral R. FE. Lee was its president, visited the Alumni Office
on October 12, ‘just traveling around a bit,” he said.

On November 26 Mr. Norfleet wrote this letter :

“In accordance with a conditional promise I made on
October 12, past, while I was in the old Washington and
Lee main building of 1867 and 1868, I am enclosing the
article written by me a short time ago for the Chapel Hill
Weekly. It might be added to this article that services
were held every morning in the College Chapel; no one
was required to attend, but many did. I think General Lee
was a frequent attendant.

‘‘Now I wish to say that I feel I enjoyed a special priv-
ilege in living more than a year near this great and good
man, and while I could not approach his level, his ex-
ample has been a great help to me in a more than usually
prolonged life. With the clipping I am enclosing a short
letter from Mr. Groves; please retain letter and clipping.
I am enclosing a check for $2.50 for a year’s subscription
to the Washington and Lee ALUMNI Macazine. The
University of North Carolina also claims me as an alum-
nus, though my record there is not as good as at Wash-
ington and lee. Remember me to Dr. Gaines.”

Following is Mr. Norfleet’s story as printed in the
Chapel Hill W eekly:

“T was a student at Washington and Lee in 1867 and
1868.

“General Lee had nothing to do with the college cur-
riculum. He had an office in one of the college buildings
in which he could be found every day between 8 or 9 a. m.
and 1 p. m., at which time lectures and recitations ceased
for the day; the afternoon and evening being for recrea-
tion and preparation for the next day’s work.

“On fine afternoons the General could frequently be
seen riding on Traveller, his beautiful iron gray saddle
horse, a present from a friend early in the War Between
the States and which he rode during the war.

“Of course all Southern people know about ‘Traveller,
but all Southern people do not know how General Lee ap-
peared on Traveller ; that pleasure is reserved to but few,
and they are old people. The General rode with the trained
grace of a cavalry officer, and the assured seat of a boy
acquired from earlier youth on a Southern plantation,
that is, the seat of a natural rider. Though it is sixty-eight
years since I saw him and his horse, I see them just as
plainly now as I did then.

“In the General’s intercourse with the students no
kinder or more sympathetic man ever lived, but he was as
firm as he was kind. I remember a personal instance in the
winter of 1868.

“It was very cold in Lexington and the river nearby
was frozen and in splendid skating condition. At least half
the college boys were on the ice, and a great many of the
townspeople. I wanted to go of all things, but I did not
want to cut any of my classes for fear it would injure my
term stand ; therefore I decided to ask General Lee's per-
mission and then I would be all right.

“However, when I made my application for leave to
go he refused to give it, explaining very kindly that if he
gave me permission he would have to give it to all who
applied, and he could not interrupt college routine on ac-
count of skating. Now I was in a fix. If I had gone as the
others did, without permission, I would have been on the
same footing as they, but I had asked permission and been
refused. And when my teachers sent in my report as ab-
sent, and I had to go and explain it, would he forget his
refusal ? Not a hope; he knew every man’s face in the col-
lege and called him by his surname when he met him.

“Well, after all I went skating, and had the biggest
kind of a day, but my conscience made me pay for it.
‘Now,’ it said, ‘you have disobeyed General Lee for a lit-
tle pleasure—aren’t you ashamed of yourself?’ Well, |
was, but that did not help matters. However, examina-
tions came on and I was never called on to explain my ab-
sence, but I surely had some bad hours thinking over what
the General would say to me, because I had heard of wild
boys seen coming from his office in tears after he had
talked to them in a kindly and fatherly manner, and |
hankered after no such experience.

“General Lee occasionally walked around in the col-
lege while exercises were going on, and sometime he
would enter a recitation room while a class was reciting.
The teacher would give him a book and he would pay
strict attention to the matter on hand, but I never heard
him ask a question of any boy. I thought then, and I think
now, that he was the finest example of a Southern Chris-
tian gentleman that America has ever produced. The boys
—many of them were grown men who had served under
him during the war—adored him and most of them tried
to do what they thought would please him.

“T had only three personal contacts with General Lee:
when I matriculated, when I got him to autograph a
photograph for me, and when I was refused permission to
go skating.”

[6]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

ae

-

ee

 

PP
:

et

ri asl ‘
ne Ee
i. ad .
* . .
" a ' 8
c
5
ca .
. ”

 

 

¥
. - ae
us . > =

. 5
a Pe ‘ae — ss R ie fs ss ee : fe
. % Pe Se Re : Be se ae Aen 2 ag =
OOS tam, ga ane sett Scam. ncn PO Sag Re

Entrance to Lamar Porter Memorial Field at Little Rock

A Memorial to Lamar Porter

nembers of the Boys’ Club of Little Rock, Arkansas.
They have a baseball field that the Giants would be glad
to play on and a complete athletic plant that would do
credit to a college. They have a modern lighting system
for night baseball, tennis, and handball, a real, honest-to-
goodness steel and concrete stadium, and showers and
locker rooms just like the big league teams.

They draw the customers, too. From the time the
held was opened in May, up to July 15, the twenty-two

| HE dream of every American boy has come true for
1

baseball teams and twenty-six softball teams that play
there drew more than 25,000 spectators. Five thousand
boys and girls use the facilities provided.

The field was donated as a memorial to Lamar Porter
of Little Rock, who was killed in an automobile wreck in
1934 while a student at Washington and Lee University.

The development of the field into a modern athletic
plant was made possible by the Works Progress Adminis-
tration. The cost of the development was in excess of
$100,000, and it will afford health and character building
recreational facilities for thousands and thousands of boys
and girls who would not otherwise have these advtanges.

Through the WPA development equipment has been
provided for children, little boys and girls, as well as
older youths. The play areas are divided so that children
of the various age groups may pursue their own games in-
dependently of older and younger children.

NI

The section for small children is equipped with ham-
mocks, small slides and boxes, play houses and kinder-
garten tables. Another group is provided with swings,
slides, traveling rings and jungle gyms. A third section
has handicraft facilities and similar recreational equip-
ment of particular interest to this age group.

Then, in addition, the field has shuffle boards, marble
and horseshoe lots, volley-ball and handball courts, pad-
dle tennis areas, a stage for dramatic productions, and a
family picnic ground.

The parents of Lamar Porter, Mr. and Mrs. Q. L.
Porter, and other heirs of the dead youth’s grandparents,
Mr. and Mrs. James EF. Skillorn, donated the field to the
Boys’ Club of Little Rock. This organization in turn be-
came responsible for the administration of this recrea-
tional facility.

In addition to the athletic field developed by the WPA,
the Little Rock Boys’ Club has a downtown clubhouse lo-
cated in the heart of the city. Young people may there
utilize a swimming pool, library, and other facilities, as
well as participate in manual training and similar voca-
tional activities.

Lattle Rock Boys’ Club officials say that the athletic
held and the downtown clubhouse combine to make the
plants of the city’s Boys’ Club one of the best in the entire
country. Lamar Porter lield is regarded as one of the
prize WPA projects in the entire city.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

New Organ Dedicated in Lee Chapel

a organ for Lee Memorial Chapel, presented by
the United Daughters of the Confederacy, was dedi-
cated at an impressive service Monday afternoon, Novem-
ber 15. Members of the U. D. C. came to Lexington from
their national convention in Richmond, Virginia, for the
ceremonies, which included touching tributes to the mem-
ory of the Confederate hero whose body lies in a crypt on
the basement floor of the Chapel.

Mrs. E. L. Lewis of New York City formally pre-
sented the organ on behalf of the U. D. C. She said in a
brief address that it was significant that a Northerner,
Sydney B. Holden, of Sheffield, Massachusetts, first
broached to her the idea that the Chapel needed a new
organ. Mrs. Lewis was named chairman of a committee
subsequently selected by the United Daughters of the
Confederacy to raise funds for purchase of the instru-
ment.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, dean of the University, ac-
cepted the organ on behalf of the University. In his ad-
dress he said Washington and Lee will “cherish the gift as
a lasting tribute to the memory of General Lee and as an-
other link in the chain that binds the U. D. C. and Wash-
ington and Lee University” in perpetuating the memory
of Lee.

He pointed out that the old organ has been in Lee
Chapel since 1872, when it was installed about two years
after General Lee’s death at his home on the Washington
and Lee campus.

Minutes from a meeting of the Washington and Lee
board of trustees of June 25, 1872, said thanks were ex-
pressed to Mrs. M. I. Young of Houston, Texas, and
“other ladies of the state” for that organ.

Dr. Tucker in his acceptance of the new organ read
these appropriate excerpts from the old Lexington Gazette
and General Advertiser:

“Friday, November 10, 1871—An organ for the
Chapel of Washington and Lee University is now in prep-
aration in the celebrated factory of Henry Erben, New
York, and will be ready for shipment next month. The in-
strument is a large and costly one. It is intended as an of-
fering of gratitude and admiration to the memory of Gen-
eral R. E. Lee by certain ladies of Texas.

“Friday, April 19, 1872—The organ and Lee Avenue
are getting threadbare as ‘items.’ Workmen are busy put-
ting up the former. Work has stopped on the latter to al-
low Miley to photograph the ice house and fence, ere these
venerable landmarks disappear before the rude steps of a
utilitarian age.

‘May 17, 1872—An entertainment so unique and
‘recherche,’ we were about to add so delightfully, was
never offered to our community as that enjoyed by a large
assembly in the University Chapel last Monday evening.
Wishing to signalize the introduction of the organ with
some formalities, the Chapel choir invited the citizens of
the town to be present at the performance of a few pieces
in which the capabilities of the instrument might be ex-
hibited. To give the occasion the highest attractions and
render the enjoyment complete, a few vocal solos and
quartettes were intermingled with the instrumental pieces.
It is quite needless, even if it were proper, for us to men-
tion the names of those who contributed so largely to our
enjoyment by their cultivated taste and exquisite skill,
whether of the fingers or of the voice. Their names and
their accomplishments in the elegant art in which they are
adepts, are too well known already to our readers to re-
quire a repetition or a eulogism. Where every piece, with-
out exception, was rendered in a style that left nothing to
be desired, it might seem a contradiction in terms to
specify any of them as preeminently excellent, yet who
that had the privilege of drinking in can ever forget the
weird, impassioned strains of ‘Judith,’ or the pleading,
melting pathos of ‘Ave Maria?’ On behalf of those hun-
dreds who shared with us in this rare entertainment, we
return the heartiest thanks for the kindness which
prompted it.”

The new organ, a modern electric model, has been in-
stalled inconspicuously beside the old one which will re-
main in the Chapel, where it was originally installed, for
sentimental reasons.

The dedication ceremonies included an organ recital
by Dr. Thomas W. McCrary of Roanoke, Va., and selec-
tions by the Washington and Lee Glee Club, singing un-
der the direction of Professor John Graham.

The exercises were closed with a rendition of General
Lee’s favorite hymn, “How Firm a Foundation.”

 

University To Be Given Portraits

(Continued from page 5)

Dean W. H. Moreland of the Washington and Lee
School of Law will make the formal presentation of the
Garrett portrait. Presentation of the James portrait will
be made by Dr. James Lewis Howe, senior member of the
Washington and Lee faculty. The portraits will be ac-
cepted for the University by President Gaines.

[8]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

Sculptor’s Model of the Famous Dallas Statue of Lee

Model of Famous Lee Statue Given University

ASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvErsITy last month was
MD erie with the sculptor’s working model of the
famous Robert E. Lee statue in Dallas. The model of the
statue, dedicated in Dallas by President Roosevelt, was
given to the University by the sculptor, A. Phimister
Proctor.

Presentation of the plaster model was made by Mr.
Proctor with permission of the Southern Memorial As-
sociation of Dallas, which erected the statue in that city
in memory of the Confederate hero, who became presi-
dent of Washington College after the War Between the
States.

The model has been placed on display in the reception
hall of Washington College. Prior to its presentation to

the University it had been on exhibit in the Corcoran Gal-
lery in Washington and in New York City.

The sculptor, who now lives in Seattle, wrote Dr.
Gaines that the statue was designed to show General Lee’s
influence on the younger generation. ‘The symbolism is
shown in the face of the young soldier on horseback, fol-
lowing Lee and gazing, not ahead, but at his leader.

For this reason Washington and I,ee administrative
officials were particularly appreciative of the gift—Lee’s
influence is still felt by all who come to study at the school
over which he presided as president.

Francis S. Walls, assistant professor of fine arts at
Washington and Lee, said the statue, to his knowledge, “‘is
the only double equestrian statue in existence.”

[9 ]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

*. *
2 ee

‘< a

oe

Oe,

 

Duncan McDavid, 1935, pictured above, won the Alabama
State Amateur golf championship last summer. McDavid, who
lives now at Pensacola, Florida, where he is a chemist, was
described by Coach Cy Twombly as “without doubt the great-
est swimmer we have ever had at Washington and Lee.” He
captained the swimming team his last year at the University.

 

Fancy Dress, January 28, 1938

Amid the magnificent culture of ante-bellum Charles-
ton with its background of momentous political events,
Washington and Lee University will celebrate its annual
‘ancy Dress Ball late in January in a setting designed to
represent the spacious home of Governor Francis W.
Pickens of South Carolina.

With Will Rogers of Petersburg, Virginia, playing
the part of Governor Pickens, students will represent the
cultural and political leaders of the Old South, who have
gathered at his home for the colorful Governor's Ball in
the spring of 1861, just before the outbreak of the War
Between the States.

Rogers pointed out that he felt the students were tired
of medieval receptions and balls and that a more recent

setting—such as is offered by the Old South—would be
a wellcome change to the students, as well as being closely
related to the history and tradition of Washington and
Lee.

Rogers was assisted in developing the theme by Mrs.
L.. J. Desha, wife of Professor Desha of the chemistry
department, and by Professor Ollinger Crenshaw of the
history department, who worked out the historical back-
ground.

In a memorandum submitted with the announcement,
Professor Crenshaw said : ‘While momentous events took
place and South Carolina prepared secession, the best peo-
ple of Charleston enjoyed life in their magnificent homes,
attended concerts and balls of the famous St. Cecelia So-
ciety, and church at old St. Michael's, whose spire remains
a landmark to this day. Supremely confident of the future
and remarkably unanimous politically, these Carolinians
were seemingly oblivious to the dark shadow of the fu-
ture.”

In this gay setting, members of the figure will repre-
sent such characters as Robert Barnwell Rhett, secession-
ist leader; Senators James H. Hammond and James
Chestnut, Jr.; Governor William H. Gist; and the lawyer,
James L. Petigru.

Others will portray such cultural leaders as botanist
Henry Ravenal; poets Paul Hayne and Henry Timrod ;
novelist William Gilmore Simms; physicist St. Julien
Ravenal ; and classical scholar Basil L. Gildersleeve.

Rogers said contracts for decorations for the set have
been practically completed and that only a few minor de-
tails are yet to be worked out in the arrangements.

 

Camera Club Organized

The newly-organized camera club at Washington and
lee University will hold its first exhibition in February,
John E. Neill of East Orange, New Jersey, Washington
and lee senior and president of the club, has announced.

“There is no limit on either the subjects or number of
pictures which members of the club may enter in the ex-
hibit,’’ Neill said.

The Washington and Lee Camera Club was organized
in October under the sponsorship of the Lee School of
Journalism. Thirty-four students and two professors at-
tended the organization meeting, and interest has grown
steadily since then.

Speakers heard by the club have included . Lambert
Martin of the Roanoke, Virginia, Times; and C. EK. Bar-
thel, member of the Washington and Lee faculty and an
expert on printing and developing. The club holds weekly
meetings at which various phases of photography are dis-
cussed.

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Generals in Action at Madison Square Garden Last Season

The Basketball Season Opens

By RicHarpD P. CARTER

AY basketball anywhere in the Southern Conference
S area—and in many other sections as well—and those
who know their cage game think first of Washington and
lee’s Generals. That’s why interest is focused on the
floor of Doremus Gymnasium as another basketball sea-
son gets under way.

The Generals, champions of the Southern Conference
circuit by virtue of their march through the tournament
at Raleigh last March, face a difficult schedule without
two of last year’s stars. Norman Iler, captain, and Fielden
Woodward—like Iler an outstanding guard—ended their
college basketball careers when the Generals set back

[11]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

North Carolina in the final game of the Raleigh tourna-
ment to win the conference title.

Seven lettermen, however, are back in uniform for
this year’s campaign.’ They are:

Bob Spessard, the six-foot, seven-inch center from
Roanoke, Virginia, who has gained national fame for his
ability; Bill Borries of Louisville, Kentucky, one of the
best when it comes to playing forward; Kit Carson of
Danville, Kentucky, one of the Southern Conference's
best all-around basketball stars; Frank Frazier of Evans-
ton, Illinois, guard and forward; Jack Perry of Greens-
burg, Pennsylvania, forward and guard; Harry Crane of
Hinsdale, Illinois, forward; and Al Szymanski of Yon-
kers, New York, guard.

The injury jinx that prowled about on the Generals’
football field all season promises, however, to cast his
shadow over the basketball

teams to play the game well, and at best Washington and
Lee will have only one fast first string line-up this year.”
The center jump rule, which eliminates the center jump
for the ball after a basket is scored, will work to the dis-
tinct disadvantage of a small squad, Young thinks. Nor
does he see “any more of those last-minute finishes where
a team comes from behind and wins in the closing min-
utes of the game.” That, he said, is because the opposing
team will get the ball after the team that’s trailing makes
a basket.

But the Generals always play good basketball, and
they will play good basketball again this year. They may
have their lapses, as all teams do, but they can be depended
upon for some brilliant floor work, and with the tall Bob
Spessard again covering the floor there should be consid-
erable difficulty for any team facing the five from Wash-

ington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

squad. Both Borries and Szy- One of the best basketball
manski, hurt in football, are VARSITY BASKETBALL SCHEDULE schedules in years has been ar-
expected to be idle until after 1937-1938 ranged for the Generals, in-
the Christmas holidays. Just Dec. 11 Li scsssccnscsevecsicdogeue Lexington cluding the game with Long Is-
how much basketball they will Dec. 14 Bridgewater «....+.s-sssssssessserons Lexington land University in Madison
o . . Jen, 5 —-_ HEI yedsaie cn ccsecernccsccsvrvcedeccbennes Lexington
play this year is problematical. Jan. 7 Maryland .........cccccccsessesscsees Lexington Square Garden, New York
Borries suffered a severe knee Jan. 11 William and Mary... Lexington City. Washington and Lee, al-
injury and Szymanski suffered Jan. 13) Virgimia ...sessecseseeseeseeees Charlottesville though playing at a disadvan-
a broken leg bone, which, how- ce SAR oe: rela eeAmnmmmaammmes te eal tage because of illness of sev-
: s . ’ Jan. 22 Virginia Tech. ...........rccsessees Lexington ge
ever, is healing nicely. Feb. 2. Long Island..Madison Square Garden eral players and because it was
Two of the veterans are all- Feb. 5 Maryland «ose + College Park a first-appearance in the Gar-
conference men. Spessard, Car- Reb: 8: eRe ON phcieecaiines eerie eee den, lost to Long Island last
Feb. 11 «.  ROGMOKC .. cscsscscecceacescnscesvscuteies Roanoke
son, and Iler were named on ek A Fee See cee Lynchburg winter. The Generals, however,
the all-conference team after Feb. 17 ssa wang siivivcsausateaeel oe won wide applause for their
_1¢ Feb. 19 Tirginia Tech ........ccccsscssses acksburg
the 1936-1937 Raleigh tourna eh UF. Witenes Sedan .c. Witltaesbere first showing in the Garden.
ment, ehh, Be CRI iideth 0 cesdhoncchaapinssennen Richmond he Long Island game is sched-
Spessard and Carson are ai BV ICA Bi siiitien ss dig tieagionenn Lexington uled for February 2.
co-captains of this year’s five, Cy will have an opportun-

and close observers of the game
say they undoubtedly are headed for their greatest season.

Outstanding men coming up to the varsity from last
year’s freshman team include at least two who will be
called on to fill the gaps in the varsity line-up. They are
Ronnie Thompson of Rockville Center, New York, a fine
forward, and Leo Reinartz of Middleton, Ohio, a guard.

Coach Cy Young expects these two sophomores to de-
velop into stars before they graduate.

Young, by way of refreshing ‘the memory, began
coaching basketball at Washington and’ Lee in 1933. The
following year his team won the Southern Conference
championship, then was finalist in the tournament for
two successive years.

The coach-alumni secretary is not inclined to optimism
over prospects this year, what with injuries to two of his
key men, a small squad, and a change in the center jump
rule.

Under this new rule, he said, “it will take two good

ity before the Christmas holi-
days to see what kind of a team he will be able to put on
the court this season with two games more or less practice
affairs, scheduled for December 11 and 14. In neither
game, however, will he be able to put what will probably
be the first team on the floor because of the injury to
Borries.

Lynchburg will give the Generals their first test on
December 11, and basketball followers here are anxious to
see just what effect the new center jump rule will have on
the outfit led by the all-Southerns, Spessard and Carson.
Bridgewater College will give the Generals their second
test before Christmas. Against Bridgewater last year Bob
Spessard scored thirty-two points, a feat which was
widely publicized. Spessard has been one of the high-
ranking scorers of the nation for the last two years. Last
season he scored a total of 298 points in eighteen games,
an average of almost seventeen points per game. Borries
was second ranking scorer on the squad.

[12]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Review of the 1937 Football Season

By WituiaM B. BacseEy, 1938

N° that that whole thing is over, let’s take a look back
over the Washington and Lee football team’s 1937
season. We find there six losses and four victories, with
the Generals tying V. M. I. for the state crown and plac-
ing two men, Captain Will Rogers and Bill Brown, on the
all-State eleven.

The Generals opened their 1937 season with very
pleasing prospects, scoring victories over Wofford and
the University of Richmond in two games played at Lex-
ington. The injury jinx, however, which was with the
team during the entire season began to operate in the first
game, and big Frank Jones, a senior and Tilson’s best end,
injured a knee, which kept him out for the entire season.

The Generals then traveled to Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, where they met their ancient rivals, the University
of West Virginia. There they

son which they should have won and didn’t when V. P. I.
defeated them on long runs by a score of nineteen to
seven. Tech also defeated V. M. I. on Thanksgiving to
throw the Keydets and Washington and Lee into a dead-
lock for the state title.

Then came Duke at Richmond, where the Blue Devils
scored an overwhelming victory over the Generals for the
third straight year. But the score, forty-three to nothing,
does not tell of the magnificent fight that Captain Rogers
and his mates put up against Duke’s three powerful teams.

In weather so warm that by the end of the game they
were hardly able to drag themselves from the field, Rogers
and his Generals battled Duke’s regulars to a standstill
during the second and third periods ; but the odds were too
great, and weakening in the final period, Washington and

Lee allowed three more touch-

 

 

 

 

battled the Mountaineers in the downs by a fresh Duke team.
mud, losing a hard-fought game VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE The Washington and Lee
by a score of six to nothing. or line played a brilliant defensive
Bill Borries, Tilson’s other ae ii ea liane tie vee aetn game, throwing Duke’s backs
ae ae he Oct. PROCEED ccc itencheketeedetes arlottesville : i
stellar end, mecpared an injury to Oct.) Beek Widnes oe Pic clan for losses on numerous occa
his knee in the West Virginia Oct. 15 Kentucky ....cccsessesse: Lexington, Ky. sions, but the Blue Devils were
game which prevented his play- Ont) Tie Sik 6m Giieanatiasetintsnccnseanssan Lexington able to gain through the air and
. cis . Oct. , Giese, Bi soe nce ctaconciine Richmond CG Q
ing in all but one other game of Niel eens Louisville around the Generals’ ends, weak-
the year. Bill returned to the Nov.12 William ‘and Maty......... Lexitipton ened by the loss of regulars,
line-up against the University of Nov. 24 Maryland ......c...ccccccccscosess Baltimore Jones and Borries.
Virginia long enough to catch a The injury jinx struck again

pass, which enabled the Generals

to score their second touchdown and a victory over the
Cavaliers, before reinjuring his knee which kept him out
of action for the rest of the season. The injury may also
prevent his playing basketball this winter until after the
Christmas holidays at least. Borries was a regular for-
ward on last year’s Southern Conference championship
basketball team.

The toll of injuries began to be noticeable first in the
Kentucky game on October 16, with the Wildcats’ fine
halfback, Bob Davis, turning the game into a rout to win
by a score of forty-one to nothing. Injuries to two other
regulars in the Kentucky game deprived Tilson of their
services for the rest of the season. Al Szymanski, a sen-
ior, and a regular tackle for two years, broke his leg, and
Bob Abbott, a fine sophomore back and a left-handed
passer, joined Jones and Borries on the sidelines with an
injured knee.

The Generals then returned to their state campaign,
and at Blacksburg lost perhaps the only game of the sea-

in the Duke game and this time
it was Captain Rogers, who had played such a fine defen-
sive game against Duke, who was benched with a knee in-
jury. The injury prevented his playing against Virginia
the following week, and he saw very little action the rest
of the season.

The Cavaliers came over the Blue Ridge the following
Saturday, and for the seventh straight year were defeated
by Washington and Lee. This year, however, the Cava-
liers were able to score a single touchdown, which was
more than they had been able to do in the last six years.
Bill Borries returned to action long enough in this game
to catch a pass from Ray Craft on the two-yard line,
where Humphrey plunged across for the winning touch-
down. Borries was injured a few plays later and had to be
carried from the field. His reinjured knee prevented his
playing any more during the season. A torn leg muscle
also put Bob White, regular halfback, out for the rest of
the season in this game.

The Washington and Lee line played its usual fine de-

[13]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

fensive game against Virginia, allowing the Cavaliers to
gain only twelve yards during the entire first half.

At Williamsburg Tilson’s men nosed out William and
Mary by a score of fourteen to twelve, and at Baltimore
on Thanksgiving they held the most powerful Maryland
team in years to a lone touchdown and a safety.

Injuries played havoc with the material that was avail-
able for Coach Tilson this season, and if Jones, Borries,
Szymanski, Abbott, White, and Rogers had not all been
on the sidelines at one time and another during the sea-
son, there would probably be a different story to tell.

Six seniors ended their service in a Blue and White
uniform at Baltimore, Thanksgiving. Captain Will Rog-
ers’ place at center will be hard to fill, though Charles
Lykes, a junior, very capably took over the center post
after Rogers was injured in the Duke game. Steve Hana-
sik, freshman center, and one of the best yearling pivot-
men in this section, will press Lykes for his position next
season.

Two ends, two tackles, and a halfback complete the
list of those who will be lost by graduation. The ends are
Bob Spessard, who for the last two years has been an all-
Southern basketball center, and Frank Jones, regular end
for two seasons whose activities this season were ham-
pered from the opening game by a knee injury. The tac-
kles are Al Szymanski, who has been out since mid-season
with a broken leg, and Haskell Dickinson, a letterman and
reserve tackle. Bob White, halfback from Mexico, Mis-
souri, completes the list of those who have played their
last game for Washington and Lee.

Prospects for next season should be somewhat brighter
with some very good material coming up from a freshman
team which lost only one game during the season, and
that to the University of Maryland freshmen. But sopho-
mores are always unpredictable.

In Dick Pinck, Bob Blanding, Courtney Wadlington,
Alfred Bishop, and Brock, though, the freshmen did have
some very good backs who should put speed and power
into the varsity backfield next year. Harrison Hogan and
Ray Craft, backfield star from this year’s varsity, will re-
main, and with the addition of new men from the fresh-
man squad, Tilson should be able to put together a faster
and smarter backfield combination than in several years.

Looking back over the season’s score, we see only one
game that the Generals lost which they could be expected
to win, and the remarkable thing is that they were able to
turn in the victories that they did when the number of men
who appeared on the injured list during the season is
taken into consideration.

In reviewing the freshman season, we find a very fine
record. They opened their season with a thirteen to noth-
ing victory over Staunton Military Academy. In their
next game they romped to victory over a highly touted
University of Richmond squad with Dick Pinck, brilliant

quarterback, scoring twice on runs of seventy and eighty-
six yards.

The high spot of the Brigadiers’ season was their four-
teen to nine win over the University of Virginia freshmen
on October 22. The little Cavaliers jumped into an early
lead when McLaughlin, their captain, stole the ball from
Pinck’s arms in the first quarter and raced eighty yards
for a touchdown. In the second quarter Virginia added
two more points on a safety. Cy must have told his boys
something during the half, for they came back in the last
two periods with plenty of fight to score two touchdowns
and add Virginia to their list of victims for the season.
Pinck was again the offensive star of the game.

The Brigadiers continued their winning streak by de-
feating Virginia Tech eighteen to nothing in opening the
activities of Homecoming week-end.

In the last game of the season, however, the freshmen
lost their only game of the season to a strong University
of Maryland outfit by the score which was to be duplicated
in the Thanksgiving battle between the varsity teams of
the two universities—eight to nothing.

The four men which Washington and Lee placed on
the all-State freshman team, double the number of any
other school, represent what observers think of the cali-
ber of the 1937 Brigadier squad.

Dick Pinck, Brigadier quarterback, along with Lee
McLaughlin, Virginia tackle, were the only players unani-
mously selected. The two were named co-captains of the
team, if anything stranger can be imagined. ‘Two Ken-
tuckians on the Washington and Lee squad, Howard Dob-
bins and Alfred Bishop, were also picked on the mythical
eleven as was Preston Robertson of Easton, Pennsylvania.
Dobbins and Bishop are both from Louisville where they
attended Male High School. Dobbins played end and
Bishop full back, while Robertson held down one of the
tackle positions.

The schedule for 1938 has two new opponents for the
Generals. Hampden-Sydney appears in the opening role
in the place of Wofford, while Duke has been dropped,
and instead the Generals will travel to Louisville to meet
Centre. The schedule includes games with five Virginia
elevens. The Generals will make two trips to Kentucky,
one on October 15, when they play the University of Ken-
tucky at Lexington, Kentucky, and the second on Novem-
ber 5 with the Centre Colonels at Louisville.

One surprising feature of the program for next sea-
son is the early season game with the University of Vir-
ginia on October 1. The Generals will have plenty of time
to get ready for their conference wars since V. P. L., first
conference foe of the season, will not be met until Oc-
tober 22. The game will be a Homecoming day game for
the Generals, and though not definitely settled yet, that
date may be another one of those football carnivals in
Lexington.

[14]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Chats With Your Friends and Mine

By Cy Younc, Alumni Secretary

r some time or other each of us has pictured in his
i a coming event, especially one planned for
months—we might say even a year. | am thinking of
Washington and Lee’s Homecoming, November 6, 1937.
We all had planned—faculty, students, administration,
and townspeople—and you know it had been on our minds

 

here in the Alumni Office since school opened.

‘There are several things that can make or break a col-
lege homecoming, the foremost of which is the weather.
Imagine, after all this planning, to wake up on Friday
morning to find a warm, cloudy day with
House Mountain invisible. If House
Mountain is obscured by clouds many re-
turning alumni feel that their best friend
has failed to show up. About noon it hap-
pened! The rain started, and certainly
cast a gloom over this County Seat of
Rockbridge. It rained intermittently un-
til about midnight.

A victory for our freshman team over
the freshmen of Virginia Tech only
raised our spirits slightly, for Saturday
was to be the “Big Day” that we had
looked forward to so long.

The rain on Friday afternoon did not
appear to dampen the spirits of the student body that
night when they held their annual Homecoming rally in
Doremus Gymnasium with as much enthusiasm as usual.
Yes, the freshmen were there, with their torches lighting
up pajamas of every hue, for the usual parade and rush of
the movies. The Town Fathers were taking no chances,
and had the fire department ready as the burning torches
were piled from one end of the town to the other.

A few of our friends began to arrive as early as
Thursday afternoon, and by Friday night all hostelries
and private homes were filled. A great many, who had not
made reservations, had to stop in surrounding towns.

Fortunately the elements were with us and Saturday
morning broke, a beautiful autumn day.

In spite of a football game at our neighboring insti-
tution at 11 a. m., Alumni Headquarters was seething
with guests looking for former classmates and friends. It
has not been the custom to have the alumni register avail-
able on these occasions, but so many requested it that we
got the old book out for those who wanted to sign. A con-
servative estimate of alumni returning for the big event
would be from twelve to fifteen hundred, and to say the

 

day was successful would be putting it mildly. ‘The
weather was perfect and, as you know, we beat Virginia
for the seventh consecutive year. After the day was over
and we were trying to relax, I realized we had one of the
largest crowds in our history, but I had seen fewer of our
friends. This was accounted for by the V. M. I. game in
the morning, which diverted the crowd from the campus.
They flowed through Headquarters again to snatch a
sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then on to Wilson Field.
If there were only some way we could get this crowd to-
gether, other than the football game,
where everybody could at least shake
hands!

However, | did have an opportunity
to greet John Bell Towill, who was here
from Augusta, Georgia. John Bell is a
new member of the Alumni Board of
Trustees. Clarence Sager, alumni presi-
dent, even though he was a little late ar-
riving, was seen greeting many friends
around Alumni Headquarters. John and
Mrs. Herndon drove down from Haver-
ford, Pennsylvania. They saw a football
game and many friends as well as son
Dick, who is a freshman. The same ap-
plies to Larry and Jane Wilson from Greensboro, North
Carolina. Their son, Ben, is now a junior.

We were delighted to have so many of our alumni here
who graduated before the turn of the century. Norman
Fitzhugh from Charleston, West Virginia; James Mullen
from Richmond, Virginia; Jim McCluer from Parkers-
burg, West Virginia; J. L. Bumgardner from Beckley,
West Virginia; and Fielding Poindexter from Greenlee,
Virginia, were among them.

When I think of Homecoming, especially when we are
playing Virginia, | always know we can count on a large
delegation from Birmingham, Alabama. Willie Dunn and
Mark Hanna, both with sons in the freshman class; Cot
Henley, Walter Hood, and a lot of others from that terri-
tory were on hand. They stopped by Chattanooga and
brought our good friend Ed Brown and his wife. Chuck
Robinson and Orange Richardson joined this group—and
| ask you—Do they have a good time at these reunions ?
I dropped by the hotel Friday evening, or I might say, the
wee small hours of Saturday morning, and found them
still going strong, playing over old football games and re-
newing campus memories of the early 1900s. Of course |

[15]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

was a mere youth at this time, but I have sat in on so many
gatherings of these old men of the sea and heard so many
of their wild stories that I feel I have participated in the
events.

Uncle Dan Owen was here—when has he missed; his
good friend Verbon Kemp, former Alumni Secretary, and
Mrs. Kemp, were busy renewing acquaintances. I know
they, as well as the rest of us, missed Ed Caffrey. To my
knowledge, this is the first Homecoming Ed has not at-
tended in many years.

It seemed to me that a greater number of our younger
alumni are returning for Homecoming every year. I recall
seeing H. H. Staehling from Orange, New Jersey; Phil
Weinseir and Al Lustbader from Brooklyn, New York;
Dick Skully from West Hartford, Connecticut; Bill
Mertz from Wooster, Ohio; Bud Hanley from Washing-
ton; Horace Gooch from Kingston, Massachusetts ; Char-
lie Pritchard and Charlie Suter from Washington, D. C.;
Heyward Day, now Doctor Day, from Plainfield, New
Jersey ; and so many others.

I was so pleased to see so many friends of my own
vintage: Dick and Bob Campbell from Tioga, West Vir-
ginia, with their wives, were back for the first time since
graduation twenty years ago; Carter Crimble and Homer
Jones from Kingsport, Tennessee, and Bristol, respec-
tively; Jerry Burke from Appomattox, Ed Campbell, Ki
Williams, as usual, and Madison Coe joined the large
delegation from the National Capital, and Bob McDougle
who so ably assisted your Secretary with the 1917 Finals.

There was the usual large delegation from Lynchburg :
Buck Bryant, Bob Ramsey, Lynch Christian, Powell
Glass, R. C. Wood, Mosby Perrow, Jr. and Sr., Reid
Graves, Tom Torrey, Peyton Winfree, Max Barker, and
I am sure many more whom I did not have the pleasure of
seeing.

Charleston, West Virginia, sent their usual large
crowd: Cy Hall, Ruge DeVan, Graham Painter, S. FE. R.
Byrne, Jr., Fred Barron, Norman Fitzhugh, Jr.

Roscoe Stephenson from Covington, Virginia, was
here with his young son, who should be entering college
before many years. This also applies to Roy Grimley from
Ridgewood, New Jersey. Charles Watkins and Clyde
Whetzel’s presence added considerably to the occasion.

It was my pleasure to shake hands with several mem-
bers of the University Board of Trustees—Herbert Fitz-
patrick, Morrison Hutcheson, and Jimmie Caskie. While
I am speaking of these distinguished alumni, I might men-
tion the names of Governor Rocky Holt of West Vir-
ginia, and Governor-elect Jim Price of Virginia, whose
presence adds to the pleasure of any crowd. Governor
Price also has a son who is a freshman this year.

Tubby Derr from Marietta, Ohio, was seen many
times with his movie camera in action.

Another “never miss” was Claude Light of Parkers-

burg, West Virginia. Murry Smith from Richmond, Ken-
tucky; John Handlan from Mt. Vernon, Pennsylvania ;
George Haw from Richmond, Virginia; H. C. Coe from
Front Royal, Virginia; and C. R. Whipple from Bedford,
Virginia, were here to represent the classes of 1903-1904.

Omer Kaylor from Hagerstown, Maryland, accom-
panied Nevin Kilmer and his bride.

Pat Collins did not get in until noon on Saturday, but
was here in time to greet many of his friends. Native-born
Lexingtonians were Ran ‘Tucker, Preston White, and
Tom Glasgow.

To those of you who could not be present for this
happy occasion, | might say that you missed a lot and we
missed you. The next meeting of alumni on the campus is
Finals. It is not too early to make your plans to be here.
If not then, there will be another Homecoming next No-
vember. You surely can arrange to be present for one of
these events. The Alumni Office tries to make these two
occasions the outstanding alumni events of the year. Your
presence will be needed to make them successful. We will
expect you.

I am scheduled to attend alumni gatherings in New
York, Washington, and Baltimore within the next week. I
am sure to see many of our friends, and hope to be able
to report something about them in the January issue of the
Magagine.

But before then another issue Christmas will have
come and gone. It is a little early to express holiday greet-
ings, but nevertheless, I extend my best to all Washington
and Lee alumni.

This has been a mighty happy year for us in the
Alumni Office, and we trust it has been the same for you.

ie

V.1.P. A. Meets at University

The Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association, com-
posed of student editors and business managers of college
publications from throughout Virginia and the District of
Columbia, met at Lexington the week-end of December 4
under the joint sponsorship of Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute.

Most of the sessions were held in Lee Chapel and in
the Journalism lecture room at Washington and Lee. The
address of welcome was made by Major-General Kil-
bourne of V. M. I. at Lee Chapel. President Gaines of
Washington and Lee addressed the delegates at the final
banquet at the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

Approximately 180 college students, representing
thirty-four institutions, attended the convention. Kighty-
seven publications were entered in the various contests.

 

[16]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Local Alumni Association Notes

Richmond

Governer Peery of Virginia, class of 1897, and Lieu-
tenant Governor Price—now governor-elect of the Old
Dominion—addressed a meeting of Richmond alumni
October 30, the eve of the Duke game.

Approximately 100 persons attended the meeting,
which was held at the Hotel Richmond, and which was
broadcast. Included among the guests were many seniors
from Richmond high and preparatory schools.

Addresses also were made by Cy Young and Dick
Smith, athletic director. Matt Wilshire, president of the
Richmond alumni, presided.

New York

Emmett W. Poindexter, 1923, was re-elected presi-
dent of the New York Alumni Association at a meeting at
the Hotel Lafayette November 19. Ed Lee, class of 1913,
was continued in office as secretary.

The alumni heard addresses by Professor Earl Pax-
ton, now on leave for study at Columbia University, and
John W. Glynn, class of 1879.

More than sixty alumni attended the meeting, and saw
movies of the campus shown by Cy Young.

 

Baltimore

Baltimore alumni met at The Longfellow on Novem-
ber 24, the evening before the Generals’ Thanksgiving
Day battle with the University of Maryland at the Balti-
more Stadium. Approximately fifty alumni were present,
and heard talks by Cy Young, Cap’n Dick Smith, and the
Rev. Kell W. Carroll Meade, retiring president of the
Baltimore group, presided.

L. Waters Milbourne was elected the new president,
and Phil Seraphine was named secretary.

Newport News

Washington and Lee alumni meeting at the Warwick
Hotel in Newport News in November to hear Dr. Francis
P. Gaines say in an address to the group that he believed
the University this year has one of the finest student bod-
ies in Washington and Lee’s entire history.

Twenty-two alumni and fathers and students at the
University attended the luncheon. Phillip W. Murray,
Newport News graduate of the Law School and now a
Newport News attorney, was toastmaster.

Washington

On ‘Tuesday evening, November 23, about 50 alumni
gathered at the Cosmos Club for the annual Thanksgiving
eve smoker of the District of Columbia alumni.

The highlight of the evening was the showing by Cy
Young of movies of the Washington and Lee campus and
familiar Lexington scenes. For many it was the first view
of the new Tucker Hall and remodeled Newcomb Hall.

On motion of Frank Patton, the group unanimously
adopted a resolution commending Coach Tex Tilson for
his splendid work in building the varsity football team.
Everyone who saw the Generals keep Maryland in defen-
sive territory for three periods of their annual battle
knows that Tex has plenty ‘‘on the ball.”

New officers were elected for the coming year as fol-
lows: Dozier DeVane, president; Charles F. Suter, vice-
president ; Clifton Woodrum, secretary-treasurer.

Among those present were:

Ed. D. Campbell, 1917, Southern Building; Wallace
Werble, 1933, National Press Building ; D. George Price,
1932, 701 Whittier St., N. W.; J. W. Davis, 1930, 330
Star Building; Everett N. Cross, 1932, 812 Farragut St.,
N. W.; Henry V. Saunders, 1933, 3125 Mt. Pleasant St.,
N. W.; E. V. H. Bauserman, 1920, 2932 Porter St.,
N. W.; Robert K. Williams, 1913, 1421 Parkwood Place,
N. W.; Baldwin B. Bane, 1917, 1739 N St., N. W.; John
Hysong, 1919, 3120 R St., N. W.; George F. Ashworth,
1930, The National Archives; Alexander M. Walker,
1920, 2401 Calvert St., N. W.; W. O. Burtner, 1917,
1126 Eleventh St., N. W.; Eugene E. Krewson, 1935,
720 Shoreham Building; Stuart T. Miller, 1936, 59 V St.,
N. W.; James C. Hobday, 1926, 1701 Sixteenth St., N.
W.; O. M. Davis, Jr., 1936, 5818 Sherrier Place, N. W.;
Rhea Whitley, 1927, Wardman Park Hotel; Fanning
Hearon, 1927, 2412 Thirty-ninth St., N. W.; Ed Pewett,
1934, 1619 Rhode Island Ave., N. W.; John W. Kern,
1920, 2320 Internal Revenue Building.

Dan Alexander, 1903; William H. Alexander, 1934,
4707 Piney Branch Road, N. W.; A. L. McCardell, Jr.,
1929, 619 National Metropolitan Bank Building; John V.
Eddy, 1929; M. B. Cox, 1931, 1850 Monroe St., N. W.;
E. P. Bledsoe, 1930, 3525 Davenport St., N. W.; E. W.
Hale, Jr., 1931, 3525 Davenport St., N. W.; H. R. Mills,
1907, Pan-American Union; Elwood H. Seal, 1914, Dis-
trict Building; Hiram M. Dow, 1907, Rosewell, N. W.;
Basil Manly, 1906, 1855 Irving St., N. W.; Dozier De-
vane, 1907, 2422 Thirty-sixth St., N. W.; M. R. Louis,

[17]

T he Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1932, 3000 Connecticut Ave., N. W.; C. F. Suter, 1933,
1913 Key Boulevard, Arlington, Va.; H. W. Kelly, 1913,
Fairfax, Va.; Henry E. Allen, 1934, Department of State ;
Herbert M. Griffith, 1935, 3133 Connecticut Ave., N. W.:;
Walter H. Dunlap, 1906, 4517 Hawthorne, N. W.; Fran-
cis L. Patton, 1934, Leesburg, Va.; F. P. Guthrie, 1911,
4301 Argyle Terrace, N. W.

 

Lines Written at Lexington, Virginia

This is the Valley pike, the way of grief.
Through this broad avenue gaunt armies swept.
Here Sheridan laughed and here a nation wept,
Mouring a lost cause, brilliant, brave—and brief.
And though the easeful Shenandoah flows
Complacently to join the northern flood,

We shall remember ; every Southron knows
That water still is thinner than the blood.

Yet call not this the trail of sorrow, while

The Massanutten like a sentry keeps

Grim watch upon a faithful countryside.
Through tears of disillusion we can smile,

For near this path of glory Stonewall sleeps
And here, upon the road of fame, Lee died.

 

From Glass Flowers, by Donald Parson. Reprinted
with consent of author and of John W. Luce and Com-
pany, Boston, Publisher.

 

Pine Portrait of Robert E. Lee

The famous Pine portrait of Robert EK. Lee, long one
of Lee Chapel’s most highly prized art treasures, was
painted when the artist, Theodore Pine, was seventy-six
year old, Washington and Lee administrative authorities
have learned.

‘“Admiration for General Lee was the incentive that
led Theodore Pine to paint the portrait,” the artist's
widow, Mrs. Cornelia Stilwell Pine, wrote from her home
at Ogdensburg, N. Y. “Certainly no artist could paint
such a lifelike and beautiful picture without putting his
whole soul into his work, and in order to do that, he must
admire his subject. Theodore Pine was seventy-six years
of age when he painted the Lee picture.”

The portrait was painted, Mrs. Pine said, at Asheville,
North Carolina.

“It has given me great pleasure to know that the
Southern people appreciate the picture so much,” Mrs.
Pine said in her letter to the University. Thousands of
visitors to Lee Chapel, burial place of the Confederate
hero, have admired the painting.

The Pine portrait was done in 1904, a year before the
artist’s death.

Marriages

Joseru Louts Locker, Jr., B. A., 1929, M. A., 1930,
was married to Miss Susan Ellen Sanford, December 11,
1937, in Eagle Pass, Texas.

Dr. Harry B. NEEL, B. A., 1928, was married July
28, 1937, to Miss Maj-Stina Birgitta Bjornsson. Mrs.
Neel is a graduate of Cornell University. Dr. Neel is with
the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota. They are living
at the Knowlton Apartments, Rochester, Minnesota.

Joun MeErEuITH GRAHAM, Jr., LL. B., 1935, was
married September 4+ to Miss Margaret Guthrie Hill of
Hammondsport, New York. Their home is in Rome,
Georgia.

MERLE Suter, B. S., 1930, was married to Miss Mar-
ion Adeline Thayer of Rochester, New York on July 24,
1937.

Wictiiam Tayvor Axsop, B. S., 1930, was married to
Miss Ethel Fair Pillans of Ocala, Florida, on July 14,
1937.

Hucu Ciinton Sparks, JR., B. S., 1935, was mar-
ried to Miss Grace Louise Salter, September 4, 1937, in
Eufaula, Alabama.

Epwarp Miveks Rivey, B. A., 1931, was married to
Miss Ruth Annette Powers at Portsmouth, Virginia, on
August 7, 1937. They are living in Yorktown, Virginia.

RicHArp Oris PARMELEE, B. S., 1932, was married
to Miss Elizabeth Louise Basse, at Oak Park, Illinois, on
August 7, 1937. They are living at Colgate Inn, Hamil-
ton, New York.

FRANCIS Epwarpb Bape, B. A., 1928, was married to
Miss Ann Josephine Kelly on September 14, 1937, in New
York City, New York.

KENNETH Proctor LANE, A. B., 1936, was married
to Miss Joe Beall Powell, on September 11, 1937, in Rich-
mond, Virginia.

Dr. H. G.
Grace Morrison Poole, dean of the Stoneleigh College at
Rye Beach, New York, on September 29, 1937. They are
living in Paducah, Kentucky.

REYNOLDS, 1896, was married to Mrs.

 

Births

Mr. AND Mrs. Preston Davis, B. A., 1930, have a
son, Robert Preston Davis, born March 15, 1937.

Mr. AND Mrs. WALTER C. Preston, B. A., 1915, have
a second daughter, born June 23, 1937. Her name is Elea-
nor airman Preston.

Mr. AND Mrs. CHARLES A. Woon, Jr., LL. B., 1932,
have a son, Charles Richard Wood, born August 11, 1937.

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

1869

WALLER M. Brown recently retired from the Mobile
and Ohio Railroad Company after fifty-seven years of
continuous service. His address is Spring Hill, Mobile
County, Ala.

1893

D. HUNTER HUFFAKER is practicing medicine in the
Roberts-Banner Building, EF] Paso, ‘Texas.

ELIJAH FUNKHOUSER is a consulting engineer, 7522
fastlake Terrace, Chicago, Ill. He has a summer home
near Lexington and returns frequently. He has two
daughters, both married. Is now senior building appraisal
engineer of Chicago and Cook County.

PLINy FISHBURNE is with Fishburne & Sons, pre-
scription druggists, of Waynesboro, and is interested also
in Fishburne Military School.

1894

M. H. GuerRANT is in the citrus fruit business at
Umatilla, Fla.

JouN J. I*Ix is director of the department of religious
education, Synod of Appalachia, Bristol, Tenn.

1896

CABELL TUTWILER and his wife are occupying their
home, “Brushwood,” on Brushy Hills near Lexington.
) £

DEMPSEY WEAVER is vice-president of McWorter,
Weaver & Company, jobbers hardware, automotive equip-
ment, radio supplies, notions, etc., Nash-
ville, Tennessee.

1897

THos. EK. MarsHay lives in Rocky
Mount, North Carolina.

Ep WoHLWENDER is practicing law in
Columbus, Georgia.

T. H. Wess is assistant state highway
engineer with the Texas Highway Depart-
ment, with headquarters in Austin, Texas.

C. H. Puuinizy is president of the
Georgia Railroad Band and Trust Com-
pany, Augusta, Georgia.

 

1898

RICHARD FLOURNOY is connected with the state de-
partment. He recently read a paper at the National Coun-
cil on Naturalization and Citizenship. He teaches Inter-
national Law at the National University Law School in
Washington.

5. GARLAND HAMNER Is practicing law in Lynchburg,
Va., under the firm name of Edmunds & Hamner, with
offices in the Peoples Bank Building.

R. W. Hovr is chief accountant of the public schools
of the District of Columbia.

W. Ross McCain is president of the Aetna Life In-
surance Company, Hartford, Conn.

Rosert W. Mayo is practicing law at 1107-8 Kirby
Building, Dallas, Texas.

1899

JAMES MULLEN is a member of the law firm of Wil-
hams, Mullen, Williams, and Hazelgrove, American Build-
ing, Richmond, Va.

PAUL S. FELDER is president of Philip Werlein, Ltd.,
“Everything Musical Since 1842,” New Orleans, La.

A. B. WINFREE is a member of the law firm of Teal,
Winfree, McCulloch, Shuler & Kelley, Spalding Build-
ing, Portland, Ore. Although living at a great distance
from Lexington, he has frequent contacts with Washing-
ton and Lee men.

CHARLES PHILIP SNYDER is president of the Naval
War College, Newport, R. I. At the time of his appoint-
ment he was a rear admiral in the Navy and
had been at sea almost continuously for six
years.

1900

CHARLES IF. Harrison is common-
wealth’s attorney of Leesburg, Virginia.

JAMES SHIVELY is the head of the
Shively Agency, Esperson Building, Hous-
ton, Texas.

1902
W. T. Price, M. D., is practicing his
profession in Philadelphia. His home ad-
dress is 1115 Lindley Avenue.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

OsMAN E. Swarts is a lawyer with offices at 803
Union Building, Charleston, W. Va. He devotes most of
his time to service as general counsel for United Carbon,
and his principal interests are with the natural gas busi-
ness.

A. L,. BuRGER is superintendent of the public schools
of Lynchburg, Va.

1903

Sam McP. GLascow is pastor of the Independent
Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga. It was founded in
1755. He has a large and valuable collection of photo-
graphs of General Robert KE. Lee. He has published four
religious books which have had a wide circulation in the
Southern Presbyterian Church.

1904

JuLian F. BoucuHELte is judge of the Thirteenth Ju-
dicial Circuit, Charleston, W. Va. In 1935-1936 he was
assistant attorney-general of the state of West Virginia
under Attorney General Homer A. Holt, now governor
of the state. He was elected to his present position in the
fall of 1936. The term is for eight years.

Rk. D. THompsoNn is with the First and Merchants Na-
tional Bank, Richmond, Va.

WILLIAM W. Bays lives at 3228 Hiatt Place, N. W.,
Washington, D. C.

J. B. Axers has had thirty-three years of service with
the Southern Railway. His work has to do with mainte-
nance of tracks, bridges and buildings over the system.
His address is Box 1808, Washington, D. C. He had a
son at Washington and Lee two years—the sessions of
1934 and 1935, who is now working in Washington with
the Sun Life Insurance Company of America.

1906

DANIEL W. ALEXANDER, 4707 Piney Branch Road,
Washington, D. C., says he has nothing to add to his for-
mer record. His son, Billy, graduated at Washington and

Lee in 1935.

Ketty W. Trims_e, United States Geological Sur-
vey, Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., was
working in San German, Puerto Rico in the spring, but
hoped to be back in this country in the summer.

1908

G. C. GABRIEL is the minister of St. Paul’s Evengelical
Church, 54 First Avenue, Red Lion, Pa.

Grover A. BATTEN is practicing medicine in Hono-
lulu, ‘I’. H., with offices in the Dillingham Transportation
Building. His son is a junior in the University this year.

1909

Curis CHENERY has his offices at 90 Broad Street,
New York. He is a consulting engineer.

FreD NASH H -rrison is with the Universal Leaf To-
hacco Company, e::porters and importers. His address 1s
Richmond Trust Building, Richmond, Va.

1910

Puitie W. Murray is a member of the law firm of
Lett, Murray & Ford, Newport News, Va.

B. L. Woop is the Presbyterian minister at High
Bridge Manse, Buchanan, Va. He writes a delightful let-
ter of reminiscences which we would like to quote in full
if space permitted.

FRANK CasH is with the United States Department of
the Interior, Bureau of Mines, Federal Building, Bir-
mingham, Ala. He is married and has a daughter 19, a
junior at Birmingham Southern College, and a son, finish-
ing high school this year.

BILL SrreEir is secretary and sales manager of the
Southern Cement Company, Birmingham, Ala.

1911

Ropert P. BEAMAN is president of the National Bank
of Commerce, Norfolk, Va.

F. P. GuTuHRié is connected with R. C. A. Communica-
tions, Inc., as district communications manager. He has a
son in his second year Washington and Lee.

1912

CLayton WILLIAMS has finished his nineteenth year
of teaching in the law school at Washington and Lee. He
has recently brought out a third edition of Burks on
Pleading and Practice.

O. L. McDonacp, now Judge McDonald, has been
practicing law in Clarksburg, W. Va., since graduation.
Has served two and a half years as city judge, two terms
as city solicitor, six years as commissioner of accounts,
and was elected a Democratic judge in his circuit, the first
in more than half a century.

JoHN CHATFIELD is practicing law in Bridgeport,
Conn., with offices at 1115 Main Street.

[20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

C. C. Boyer is in the wholesale grocery business at
Woodstock, Va.

JosH Crist is with the Southern Dyestuff Corpora-
tion, Charlotte, N. C.

H. E. Porrer is practicing law at 1600 Integrity
Building, 1528 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. ;

PIN WEBSTER is president of the Webster Motor
Sales Company, Schenectady, N. Y.

Howarp Doss lives at 6600 West Fifth Street. Los
Angeles, Calif.

W. GRAHAM Woop is minister of the Centerville Pres-
byterian Church, Greenville, W. Va.

WALTER L,. HopKkINs is a member of the law firm of
Hopkins & Hopkins, Law Building, Richmond, Va. He is
national executive secretary of the Sons
of Confederate Veterans.

J. C. PicKENs is with the Southern
Railway, Fifteenth and K_ Streets,
Washington, D. C.

1913

Lewis ‘WYMAN is practicing law
in the Security Building, Miami, Flor-
ida. Reports on the Washington and
lee Alumni breakfast which is held on
the last day of the annual meeting of
the Florida State Bar Association meet-
ing.

G. D. Davipson has been with the Warrior Coal Com-
pany, Harman, Va., for twenty-three years. He is now
general manager of the H. KE. Harman Coal Corporation.

R. A. (Dick) Sir is director of intercollegiate
athletics at Washington and Lee. He is much interested
in the proposed reunion of the class of 1913 at finals next
year.

1914

L.. R. (MaArK) HANNA isa member of the law firm of
Murphy, Hanna, Woodall & Lindbergh. His son, Ran-
dolph, Jr., is a member of this year’s freshman class.

STEVE CHADWICK has practiced law in Seattle, Wash.,
except for war.service, continuously since 1915,

A. S$. CUMMINS is teaching at Natural Bridge, Va.

LEE R. GRABILL, JR., is with the legal division of E. I.
de Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, Dela.

C. R. Avery is president of the Chattanooga Glass

|

 

?

_—

Company, specializing in the manufacture of patented bot-
tles for Coca-Cola. He married Elizabeth Lupton of Bed-
ford, Va., and they have a daughter, Betty, 13, and a boy,
Lupton, who is a freshman at Washington and Lee this
year.

M. R. Dopp is assistant superintendent of Kanawha
County Schools, Charleston, W. Va.

Kpwarp M, Craic, Jr., lives at 3515 Seventy-eight
Street, Nackson Heights, New York.

I’rED DAvis is with the National Fire Insurance Com-
pany of Hartford. His office is at 209 Ninth Street,
Lynchburg, Va. Fred was married last June.

Houston BarcLay is with the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society in Wichita, Kans. He married Pattie Hyde
of Wichita, and they have four children.

“te 1915

C. C. CHAMBERS, LL. B., 1915, has
been elected circuit judge in Logan
County, West Virginia.

Jor MILNER is manager of the Coca-
Cola Bottling Company, Gulfport, Mis-
SISSIppi.

1916

Bitt JUNKIN has recently moved

to Ifredericksburg, Virginia, where he
is practicing medicine. He was made a
| ‘ member of the American College of
ape Surgeons in 1933, and was appointed
surgeon with the rank of Lieutenant Commander in the
United States Naval Reserves in 1935. He married Miss
Margaret Putnam of Salisbury, North Carolina.

Hunter M. Suumare, LL. B., 1916, has been elected
judge of the Twenty-Third Judicial District of Kentucky.
His home is at Irvine, Ky.

1917

Bop GARDNER is with the A. M. Byers Company,
manufacturers of wrought iron products, Pittsburgh, Pa.
He and Charlie Lile often get together and talk over their
days at Washington and Lee.

JACKSON COLLINS is an attorney and counsellor at law,
70 Pine Street, New York.

HENRY BLACKFORD is a member of the firm of A. M.
Law & Company, Stocks, Bonds, Insurance, Spartanburg,
S. C. Hs has a girl and two boys.

Juntus B. Pow Lt is in the bond department, Francis
I. DuPont & Co., One Wall Street.

L |

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1918
KE. V. Bowyer is in charge of the Lynchburg Gas
Company, Lynchburg, Va.

Francis H. Sry es has recently been transferred to
Ottowa to serve as United States consul and second sec-
retary.

1919

Rev. Mason M. Hurvp is rector of St. Johns Episcopal
Church, Logan, Utah.

James R. (Jimmy) FAatn has been president of the
Morris Plan Bank of Winston-Salem, N. C., for nine
years. He married Lucy Bouldin and they have a son nine
years old and a daughter six. As for other activities, he 1s
a member of the Presbyterian Church, member and past
president of the Winston-Salem Rotary Club, director of
the Y. M. C. A., treasurer of the Winston-Salem Com-
munity Chest, and president of the Winston-Salem Cham-
ber of Commerce.

1920

J. W. McKown is a member of the firm of Wolff &
McKown, furniture dealers of Waynesboro, Pa.

GrorcE S. MUELLER is living at 51 Quaker Ridge
Road, Manhasset, N. Y.

Bit PARKER is practicing law in Miami, Fla., with
offices in the Ingraham Building. He writes: “You and
the rest of the class will no doubt be interested to know
that during the pilgrimage through Arkansas last summer
| renewed contact with two old friends, one, Randolph
Smith, who is practicing medicine in the Donaghey Build-
ing, Little Rock, Ark., and the other, E. S. (Tot) Trues-
dale, who is in business at Camden, Ark. The former has
grown fatter and the latter skinnier. Ran is married and
has two very fine children, while Tot remains a crusty old
bachelor ; both appear to be doing well in their respective
spheres.”’

HotmEs Rovtston is pastor of the Bethesda Church,
Rockbridge Baths, Va. He is married and has three chil-
dren.

Harry L,. Moors is head of the department of poultry
husbandry at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

1921
BiLtt Duprg is practicing law in Tampa, Fla., with of-
fices in the Citizens Bank Building. His firm is Dupre &
Cone.

D. BoongE DAwson is mayor of the city of Charleston,

W. Va.

1922

L. W. “Jim” Mitsournks is in the real estate business
in Baltimore. He is president of the Baltimore Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni Association.

loan” SNIVELY is vice-president and secretary of the
Hagerstown Leather Company; is happy, healthy and
married to a Southerner. They live on a farm near Hag-

se?

erstown.

1924

rep 1, Wurre is secretary-treasurer of the Union
Finance & Small Loans Corporation of Petersburg, Va.
He was married last November to a Petersburg girl.

Joun D.'T. Bop is practicing law in the Old National
Bank Building, Evansville, Ind. His name appears in the
1937-1937 edition of America’s Young Men.

Joun F. HENDON operates the Third Avenue Garage,
Birmingham, Ala.

Irwin W. Srovwz is with the Iron Fireman Corpora-
tion, Columbia, S. C. Has been living in Columbia for ten
years. He is married and has two sons.

1926

Dr. CHARLES LESLIE Lowry is dean of the Episcopal
Seminary, Alexandria, Va. He was elected a delegate to
the World Conference on Faith and Order at Edinbor-
ough in August, and expected to be in England also for
part of July and August.

1927

ALLEN Harris is with the Harris Flooring Company,
21-33 Borden Avenue, Long Island City, N. J.

Davin A. McCANDLEss, JR., received his LL. B. de-
gree from George Washington University in 1931, later
became associated with his father in the practice of law
in Louisville, Ky., under the firm name of McCandless &
McCandless, Kentucky Home Life Building. He is pro-
bate commissioner for the Jefferson County Court.

LutHEer G. McKINNON is a member of the firm of
McKinnon Hardwood Company, Greenville, Ala. This is
a change of address from DeFuniak Springs, Fla. He has
been back to the campus twice since graduation.

Rev. S. TALMAGE MAGANN, who has been pastor of
the Hillcrest Baptist Church of Columbus, Ohio, for the
past four years, has resigned this position to become pas-
tor of the First Baptist Church of Salem, Ohio.

[22 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

RopBert O. BENTLEY, JR., is an attorney and counsellor
at law, Peoples Trust Building, Hackensack, N. J.

1928

W. L. (Monte) Harris is assistant secretary of the
Mail Pouch Tobacco Company of Wheeling, W. Va.
After leaving school he worked for a time as real estate
an insurance salesman, then as accountant for DuPont in
Buffalo, then as a bank examiner for six years, then to
Wheeling and the chewing tobacco business. He was mar-
ried three years ago and has a daughter a year and a half
old.

I'kED PEARSE, JR., is continuing the practice of law in
Newark, N. J. He married Emily Penick, daughter of the
treasurer of the University, and their son, Frederick M.
I. Pearse, [11], 1s now about five years old.

FfAroLD Doses is married and has a
son six and a daughter three and a half
and a step-son who is thirteen. He is with
the firm of Bryan, Penington and Colket,

Brokers, 48 Wall Street, New York.

CHARLES HENRY LINDFORD has his of-
fice in the Sweet Building, Fort Lauder-
dale, Florida.

W. M. Pork is with Scott & String-
fellow, investment brokers, Richmond,
Virginia. Has been office manager for this
firm since 1929.

Ep MILLER is a member of the law firm of E. T. and
IX. M. Miller, Boatman’s Bank Building, St. Louis, Mo.

1929

Jack W. KENNEY is assistant to the treasurer of
Montgomery Ward & Company, Inc., Chicago.

H. E. BEMIs is in the oil business at Prescott, Ark.

HENRY AND OLIVER Houck no longer live in Mem-
phis, Tenn. Their addresses are as follows: Henry Bunn
Houck, 2117 North Van Buren Street, Little Rock, Ark. ;
Oliver Kershner Houck, 921 Unidilla St., Shreveport, La.

McRerE Davis is a member of the firm of James,
Stayart & Davis, Investment Securities, First National
Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

Bitty Lorr is a lawyer and works in the legal di-
vision of the Federal Trade Commission, Washington,

3 Ag

WALTER WILCOX is with the S. D. Warren Company,
paper manufacturers, 2 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.

 

1930

Joun P. LYNCH was a visitor to the campus in the
late summer ,and brought his bride along. He will prac-
tice medicine in Richmond, Va.

SHUFORD NICHOLS is in the cotton business in Des

Arc, Ark.

RospeErt W. Mos_&éy was married December 26, 1937,
to Eloise Hull of Mammoth Springs, Ark. He is in the
wholesale grocery business with his father.

SILL ALsop is with the Dixie Lime Products Com-
pany, Ocala, Fla. He is superintendent of the lime manu-
facturing division.

LeXON R. Ropinson, JR., is assistant minister at the
lirst Baptist Church, Philadelphia, Pa.

NepD WappbELL, who has been house
surgeon at the Norfolk General Hospital,
left there July 1 to go to Twillingate,
Newfoundland. He will be resident phy-
sician at the Notre Dame Bay Memorial
Hospital.

1931

Harris Cox is with the Geophysical
Service, Inc., Republic Bank Building,
Dallas, Texas.

AL PEERY is practicing law in T'aze-
well, Virginia.

Bitt BALLARD is with the Ballard Fish & Oyster Com-
pany, Inc., Norfolk, Va.

1932

JACK SRULOwIrz finished medicine at University of
Richmond last year and is interning in Johnstown, Pa., at
the Conemaugh Valley Memorial Hospital. He reports
that Frank Williams is with a Wall Street firm in New
York City.

“Rossy” RICHARD ROBERTSON is with the Missouri
Welfare Organization, in charge of relief work in Ste.
Genevieve County, Ste. Genevieve, Mo. He is married,
but has no children.

Joun C. Harris, since graduation, has been in charge
of the Scottsboro Wholesale Co., Scottsboro, Ala.

CHARLIE LONG is practicing law in Dallas, Texas, is
still single, reports that the ‘Texas Centennial was great.

Bos Hornor has been connected with the Delaware
Gas Co. in Clarksburg, W. Va., his home town, ever since

[23]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

he left school. He reports that Joe Holt and Paul Hornor
are married and fathers, that Roger and Howard Coll
also are living in Clarksburg.

Don ‘THOMPSON has been teaching at Florida Military
Academy for several years, but is going to Harvard to
continue work on his doctorate. His home address is 2579
Herschel Street, Jacksonville, Ila.

RAYMOND “Russ” Russet is still in Omaha (5121
Webster Street) in the wholesale sporting goods business.
He is married.

GLENN GIVENS is with the Ford Motor Co. in St.
Louis, lives at 5954 Plymouth Avenue. He has finished his
law course at night school, and is taking the Missouri bar
soon. He is a member of the St. Louis Alumni Associa-
tion, as are Charlie Peaper, Eddie Bacon and Tom At-
wood.

OsMAN ‘T. BAXTER is on the editorial staff of the
Standard-Star, New Rochelle, New York. He went there
from a newspaper job in Fairfield, Conn., after having
worked in the editorial rooms of the New York Herald
Tribune.

Ross L. MALONE is a membe rof the newly-formed
partnership of Atwood and Malone, Attorneys-at-Law,
with offices in the J. P. White Building, Roswell, New
Mexico.

WaynE MaAruisis a member of the law firm of Covey,
Mathis & Covey, Peoria, Ill. Says he is still single.

Francis FuLLER is pracing law in Atlanta, Ga., with
offices in the Trust Company of Georgia Building.

Ross MALONE is a member of the firm of Atwood and
Maline, White Building, Roswell, New Mexico, specializ-
ing in oil and gas law. He has been married three years.

1933

CROMWELL THOMAS will teach and coach in the Sev-
ern School this winter, he writes.

Joun CuLtey is with Proctor & Gamble. His address
is 111 FE. Everett Street, Dixon, III.

Dick CALDWELL is living in Bentleyville, Pa.

In reply to his Class Agent’s letter, KBEN JACKSON
says :“* My mother and father are feeling very well—that
takes care of the family. This section of the country is
doing all right under the rule of one more of those good
Republicans that the Democrats elected governor, and as
for me, I never felt or looked any better. My contribution
is enclosed.” Eben is living at Danvers, Mass.

Dick CALDWELL was a junior last year in Hahnemann
Medical College in Philadelphia. He expects to “go on to
graduation” there.

At AND Bi_Lt Symonps are with the W. D. Allen
Manufacturing Company. Their address is 1040 Judson
Avenue, Evanston, Ill.

SAM STEVES is living at 427 Del Mar Boulevard, Cor-
pus Christi, Texas. He is married and has a family.

Joun Grirrirus, Jr., lives at 41 Marshall Street,
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

1934

HARVEY Pripbe is with the United Furniture Company,
Decatur, Ala.

Vicror ‘TUCKER is in the life insurance business in
Philadelphia. His home address is 51 West Walnut Lane,
Germantown, Pa.

MANNING WILLIAMS visited the campus in the early
spring.

Roperr Lacy Burrincron, B. S., 1934, is with the
Florida Light & Power Company, Miami, Fla.

1935

Rop Harris is with the Jacobs Manufacturing Com-
pany, Bridgeport, Ala.

LEIGHTON EVERHART is a chemist with the DuPont
Plant at Belle, W. Va.

Grorce McGeory is living at 293 North Broadway,
Yonkers, N. Y.

1936

KENNETH MACDONALD has been studying medicine at
Cornell University Medical College, associated with the
New York Hospital at 1300 York Avenue, New York
City. Worked for the Chicago Tribune during the sum-
mer. His home address is 179 Washington Avenue, Clif-

ton, N. J.
“Doc” SLOAN is studying medicine at Johns-Hopkins.

Av KAHN is studying medicine at Harvard Medical
School.

Ancus POWELL is in the Harvard Business School.

Howarpb MELTON is with the Howard E.. Melton Com-
pany, Inc., Oklahoma City, Okla., Delco-Frigidaire dis-
tributors.

L.yLE Moors is working for Stokely Brothers & Com-
pany, growers and canners of vegetables. Is on the road
quite a bit. Was married last fall.

[24]

 

 

McCRUM’S
=

Prompt Delivery on Flowers and Candy in
Lexington and Vicinity

“LEXINGTON, IN OLD VIRGINIA”

by HENry BoLey

was published in March, 1936, of

special interest to the alumni Ss
of Washington and Lee Whitman’s
and Martha Washington Candies
$3.00 =

ae

order now from Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

Boley’s Book Store “

Your Mail Order Will

Lexington, Virginia Receive Our Best Attention

 

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

Gibson Witherspoon
Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi
@

Philip P. Gibson

Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson

Huntington, W. Va.

 

First National Bank Building

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and

Campbell

Southern Building

Washington, D. C.

Professional Directory

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910
Tucker and Mason
Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bide.
Shreveport, Louisiana

®
Ruff & Ready
\Wallace Ruff, 1914
Thos. J. Ready, Stetson, 1921

Attorneys-at-Law
Townley Building

Mast Flagler St. and First Ave.
Miami, Florida

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

LIGGETT & MYEF

 

rs wv . . Sr Cosa ¥ : ‘ ied ne “Sar in - =y oe
Ae ee eS OD

a * “ _- : a
adel a . a r : > f eS : pe ‘ x es “oe wn SF
* Saks. tame hips aot ° 7 : ee eee ae von te Oe dks Agate) coe. > Besetdas ele eNO) ten ho

Copyright 1937, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co.

