~

sk

ew oree, et

iA

°

VOL. X—NO.2

gl

UI

Washington and lee

 
 

 

,
\ ;
ak ‘

$2.50 A YEAR

 

 

 

 

ll

lachian Association
a. Minnick, 318 Park Street, Bristol,

Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
Leighton McKinney, 1100 Prospect Ave., Little
Rock.

lanta, Georgia
oe? S. Humphries, Healey Building.

Baltimore, Maryland
Jim Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank Building.

Charienton, West Virginia
W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.

Chicavo
Ruben A. Lewis, Jr., Continental Illinois

National Bank.

Cincinnati
Rojer J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 523 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla,

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, Peoples Bank Building.

Louisville, Kentucky
Arthur Tabb, 2411 Randall Avenue.

Memphis, Tennessee
R. Maynard Holt, Oliver-Finnie Co.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana
E. E. Dufour, 2632 Coliseum Street.

Norfolk, Virginia
Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.

Northern Louisiana Association
C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.

Richmond, Virginia
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Atlantic Life Building.

San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, U. C. L. A., Los Angeles.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.

Tri-State Association
J. J. Fitchett, Union Bank Building, Hunt-
ington, West Virginia.

Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Building.

THE ALUMINI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. X NOVEMBER, 1934 No. 2

 

GOT Neth Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor..RicHARD PowELt CarTEr, 1929

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presedent 333... seas Dr. J. W. Craupy, 1909
Vice-President................ HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930
Secretary............ Harry K. (“Cy”) Younc, 1917
EPRI ORE ae ik M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Powe tt, 1929
Epwarp W. L&s, 1913
H. St.G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
Water A. MAcDona.p, 1910

 

 

 

Contents for November, 1934

PAGE
EAE ERMINE EN 6 goo, Nl, «oss hess > - Mpmaaativabeee dan »--+es 3
The Mother of the Mattox BoyS.................c:cscsscseeseeeeeee +
A Rising PANO RP LADERA ws Ability Ses oa vcs kh seco apne tienes => | 6
ERIS. 1S< TER A, VV ORs in kone. 3. Seve ch opeeaapnohes tons o> 4 7
State and Conference Champions!..........00.......cceeeeeeee ae 9
Riewel ~ W rites POOR ocea i5 aise ose eee sinc cescceeaeee oe yas 13
He Wrote the Words to the Immortal “Swing’’.................... 14
Notables Heard at 8S. I. P. A. Convention ....................... iki
CSUaGB-GRTT ROE Det isn sos ooo cohen eeitics ov vee tes ch eogegas wee
LOCal Filme PiSememerion INQRES. 3.266 6cai. pci. enscgeed tans. e000 17
SUOMI INR PANTER ccd sles eve Na fadapes votipnd «cite ot Fhepauapemecceales Leal 19

Le]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The President's Page

ast MonpAy NIGHT—-this was November 10—

I attended one of the most vigorous and earnest

sessions I ever saw. It was a meeting of the
freshmen advisers together with all other members of
the faculty who teach freshmen, going over one by one
the reports of freshmen for the mid-term, pooling all
information about the individual student, offering sug-
gestions, promising encouragement.

It was in some respects like a conference of coaches
“between halves,” concerned deeply with the perform-
ance of their players. To me it was soul-stirring, this
spectacle of men who were taking obligations of kind-
ness far beyond contractual definition, going the sec-
ond mile of helpfulness.

Many alumni and even more parents have express-
ed interest, often a kind of surprised appreciation, in
the process of guidance in force at Washington and
Lee. It is, in general, an effort first of all to get a
definite conception of a boy as an individual and then
to offer the wisest aid in helping him to make adjust-
ments, to fulfill his best promise, to discover his talents
and capacities.

The process begins long before the freshman reaches
the campus. In preliminary investigation, the University
officials send a blank to the principal of the boy’s pre-
paratory school, asking for not only a transcript of
work and a specific recommendation but also for con-
fidential comments upon the prospect.

The blank form sent to the student himself asks
such questions as he can appropriately answer and re-
quires that he furnish us with names of several people
to whom we may write directly. We particularly ask
for our alumni or members of our student body, and
for teachers. To such persons we send a separate, con-
fidental letter, asking the questions we feel are signif-
icant.

In this connection, special acknowledgement should
be made of the immense assistance rendered by our
alumni. Sometimes we refer to alumni the case of a
boy who has not even offered these alumni as ref-
erences; we never fail to receive a just appraisal.

This material collected in advance serves a far larg-
er purpose than merely to indicate whether we shall
admit the boy. It is basic in our study of him for the
modes of help that we may later propose.

When admitted the student is assigned to a faculty
adviser, usually upon some tie of congeniality like geo-
graphical distribution or professional interest. The ad-

viser immediately studies these pa-
pers, writes the boy a letter of greet-
ing, thinks over the desirable course,
and is prepared for complete un-
derstanding.

After the boys have reached the
campus, these advisers help map out
the program of study, follow care-
fully the performance of the stu-
dent, counsel parents if need arises,
meet their group collectively or in-
dividually for conference, and prove
just as warm and valuable friends as the boys them-
selves will permit.

It should be remembered, of course, that the chief
work of the dean of students is composed of helping in
personal problems; that much of the time of the dean
of the university is given to the same cause; that all
administrative officers—the other deans, the alumni
secretary, the registrar, the treasurer, the president—
all are eager to be of assistance.

Meantime the freshmen, unless special circumstances
exist, have been required to room in the dormitory un-
der the general supervision of twelve upperclassmen,
known as counselors, previously chosen for their own
character and sympathetic interest. These older boys
make a contribution of great moment.

The freshman camp makes it possible for a limited
number of new students to have delightful experiences
in acquaintance with faculty members and older stu-
dents. The full orientation week for all freshmen and
transfers is a patient exposition, mingled with much
exhortation, of the features of university life which
particularly, affect the new-comers.

The freshmen are required to take an intelligence
test, or a series of tests, designed to give some insight
into ability as applied to different fields of mental effort.
The results of such tests are not infallible, of course,
but coupled with the boy’s previous record they are
generally accurate at least for indicating the standard
which he ought to reach.

There are other incidental features. Certainly men-
tion must be made of the work done by the ministers
of the town, who send out from the University office
an advance letter of welcome and then seek immediately
after the opening to make contact with boys of their
own communion; and tribute should be paid to the

(Continued on page six)

 

Oe

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Mother of the Mattox Boys

By JOHN OLIVER
Sports Editor, The Roanoke (Va.) World-News

 

She MOTHER of Vir-
ginia’s greatest family

of athletes saw her first
football game and her last
son in action when Wash-
ington and Lee and Vir-

 

The Alumni Magazine appreciates the follow-
ing contribution by Mr. Oliver, who as sports edi-
tor of one of Virginia's leading newspapers has
followed the Mattox family through its path of
football glory on gridirons of the Old Dominion.

how realized football held
for young men, she never
raised a murmur in opposi-
tion to their playing. It was
all right with her if they
wanted to play. It was a co-

 

 

ginia ‘Tech clashed in their
homecoming day encounter at Lexington this year.

Mrs. Bruce J. Mattox, of Leesville, who gave five
sons to Washington and Lee, one to William and Mary
and another to Virginia Tech, sat as a guest of honor
when thousands gathered to watch the Generals and
the Techmen in their traditional game on Wilson field.

Her ninth son and the baby of
the Mattox family, “Sunny Sam,”

incidence, too, that their
father, who died two years ago, never saw them play,
either. His philosophy was, “It will either make men of
them or kill them.”

Not until last summer when four of her sons were
playing on the Altavista baseball team did she show any
outward interest in their athletic exploits. Leesville is
just a few miles from Altavista and
she was persuaded one Sunday to go

 

is the Generals’ captain and _ star
halfback, and is in his final season.
He also is the last of the Mattox
clan of Leesville.

Mrs. Mattox, now 61 years old,
consented finally to see her last son
play after much persuasion on the
part of members of her family. After
more than two decades during which
the name of Mattox has been em-
blazoned high on the roll of Vir-
ginia’s gridiron greats, she witnessed
her first football game.

She had never cared for football,
she said, but the real reason was that
she was afraid she’d see one of her
sons hurt. One time when the origi-
nal “Monk’’ Mattox, Marvin, was
captaining the Generals, she was in
Lynchburg where Washington and
Lee faced ‘Tech. But she absolutely
refused to go to the stadium.

During all the rest of the years
when her sons were making the name
famous on the eastern and southern
gridirons, she remained at the old
home at Leesville, going quietly about her domestic af-
fairs, but praying silently that a kind Providence would
protect her boys from injury.

As much as she feared the dangers which she some-

 

 

Mrs. Bruce J. Mattox

over and watch Cloy, Wilbur, Osbey,
and Sam stage their weekly diamond
circus for the education of the rabid
fandom. She went, enjoyed the game
to the nth degree and after that be-
came a regular fan.

That was one of the major in-
ducements which caused her to yield
to persuasion that she see at least
one football game since this would
be the last year’ one of her sons
would play. Her presence enhanced
the color and glamor that always
surrounds these two proud old Vir-
ginia colleges.

Youthful looking for one of her
age, Mrs. Mattox appears as the
typical Virginia mother. Kindly eyes,
firm mouth and full face, she beams
strength and character.

Strange as it may seem, the old-
est son of the clan did not go to
Washington and Lee. After prep-
ping at Hargrave Military Academy
where he played football, he went to
William and Mary and was a star in
the Indian firmament. He is David Mattox, now 41. He,
by the way, has a son, 13-year-old Balfour, who is
playing preparatory school football at Providence, R.
I.. and who knows but that he may later go to Wash-

 

Bore

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ington and Lee to carry on the family erpont
After Davis came Otha, who died at the age of six.

James P., Jimmy, was next, and he was the first of
the family to make gridiron history for the Generals.
It was his magic toe which kicked the field goal in
1919 that beat Georgia Tech, 3 to 0, and gave the Lex-
ington school the Southern Conference championship.

That same year, Marvin, the first “Monk,” played
an end on the Generals’ team. The conference rules did
not bar freshmen then and Marvin continued playing
a brilliant game through four years and captained the
team in his last season.

Then came a gap when the Generals were without
a Mattox for several years. Cloy Mitchell Mattox, de-
spite the fact that he had had two brothers at Wash-
ington and Lee ahead of him, decided to be different
and set sail for the University of Virginia. But he
never reached Charlottesville. At Lynchburg, so the
story goes, Henry B. Redd, now head coach at Tech,
then freshman mentor, encountered Mattox and after
considerable argument persuaded him to go to Blacks-
burg. Cloy finally consented, had the labels on his trunk
changed and landed at Tech where he played a bril-
liant game in the backfield for three years through 1928.

It was also a coincidence that the two members of
the family who did not go to Washington and Lee went
to prep school at Hargrave while the others finished
their preparatory work at Fishburne Military School.

The following year, Wilbur, another “Monk,” ma-
triculated at Lexington and in 1930, as a sophomore,
his star began to ascend into the football firmament.
Like Cloy, he was short, well knit and threw a powerful
body at opposing lines. He emerged, bruised and bat-
tered from many a game but was always ready to carry
on the next Saturday.

After Wilbur came Sammy, the present General
captain and halfback. Last year, Osbey, lanky, grace-
ful and comical, played through his freshman year and
was being groomed as a future General center, but he
decided not to re-enter school this year. Otherwise,
Washington and Lee would be blessed with another
Mattox for four years.

Had two of the boys lived there would have been
nine of them. There are now two girls. The other boy,
Henry, died when he was five.

The Mattoxes were not only brilliant football play-
ers but most all of them played baseball, and Cloy one
season was a reserve catcher for Connie Mack’s Ath-
letics but he favored injuries received in football and
could not keep pace in the American League. He spent
part of the season with the Baltimore Orioles of the
International League. Long before him, Jimmy was

with the Pittsburgh Pirates of the National League
for two years.

Last baseball season at Altavista, Cloy caught, Os-
bey played first base, Wilbur held down second and
Sam played in the outfield.

 

Dr. Gaines on Speaking Tour

Dr. Gatnes left Lexington November 14 on one of
the most extensive speaking tours undertaken by a
Washington and Lee president in some time, going as
far west as Little Rock, Arkansas, before returning
to the campus on November 26.

Three addresses were made in Louisville, his first
stop, before Dr. Gaines left there for St. Louis. In the
Kentucky city he was scheduled to speak before the
Washington and Lee alumni group, the Rotary club,
and the Male High school students.

Arriving at St. Louis November 17, Dr. Gaines’ pro-
gram called for four addresses before leaving for Little
Rock. He talked at a meeting of Washington and Lee
alumni, and spoke to students at the Country Day
school, the John Burroughs school, and the Taylor
school.

At Little Rock November 20 and 21, the Washing-
ton and Lee president addressed the university alumni
and also talked to high school students.

Leaving Little Rock, Dr. Gaines went to Shreve-
port, La., where he also addressed a meeting of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni, and high school students as
well. From Shreveport he went to Memphis, Tenn.,
reaching there early the morning of November 23, re-
maining until the morning of November 25. In Mem-
phis Dr. Gaines spoke to the alumni and made addresses
at two high schools.

Note: A detailed account of Dr. Gaines’ tour will
be carried in the next issue of the Alumni Magazine.

 

About Our Cover

THe ALUMNI MacazInE is indebted to the Wash-
ington Post, Washington, D. C., for permission to re-
produce the photograph appearing on the cover of this
issue. The picture was taken by a Washington Post
photographer during the homecoming day classic on
Wilson field, and appeared the following day in the
Post. It shows Virginia Tech kicking off to the Gen-
erals. If you look close enough, you'll see the ball. The
editors of the Alwmni Magazine think it one of the
best football photographs taken in many days.—R. P. C.

[5 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Rising Young Publisher
By Pat Jonegs, Class of 1930

Down 1N Huntsville, Alabama, there is a Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus who is making a name for
himself in the newspaper world, publishing what is fast
being adjudged one of the best small daily newspapers
in that section of the United States.

He is Henry P. Johnston, publisher of the Hunts-
ville Times, and local advertising manager for the Bir-
mingham News and
Age-Herald. I want
to convey to you
here a story of his
achievements, an
account of his ac-
tivities during the
last five years.

For three years,
as city editor of
The Times and his
former classmate at
the Lee School of
Journalism, I have
watched Henry
“step out.”

In October,
1931, he bought
The Times, and
took it over to be-
come the publisher
of a daily newspa-
per at 23. His leadership and evidence that his job was
not too big for him began to show at once.

A better layout, better news policy, a more efficient
advertising service, a stronger organization on the in-
side, a more friendly and helpful attitude toward the
public—these goals were set by him as soon as he took
over the helm. No better proof of his success can be
given than that The Times, during the three years he has
published it, has increased in circulation from 2,800 to
6,500, and has come to be recognized as one of the best
small dailies in the South.

Henry had no easy job, and I speak from a seat in
the front row. At the time he bought the Huntsville
paper, the depression was beginning to paralyze business
so that it was felt generally. But he buckled down cool-
headedly despite the disadvantages of his age, wrote a
friendly editorial to his public, and fought to keep his
head above the red ink, a young man not long out of
college, burdened with considerable debt for a person of
his age, and with a publication of uncertain future on his
hands.

 

Henry P. Johnston

Not once during those three years did his paper fail
to meet its salary payroll weekly. Not once did it swerve
from its advertising policies.

In addition to his duties as publisher, Henry served
as a member of the Huntsville Rotary Club, board of
governors of the University club and board of directors
of the Y. M. C. A.

Recently, he took over the job of local advertising
manager for the Birmingham News and Age-Herald.
He will continue as publisher of The Times, serving in
two capacities at once.

Henry Johnston was graduated from Washington
and I.ee with a bachelor of arts degree, majoring in
journalism. He was a member of Alpha Tau Omega,
Pi Delta Epsilon, “13”, White Friars, Omicron Delta
Kappa, first president of the Washington and Lee chap-
ter of Sigma Delta Chi, editor of The Ring-tum Phi,
member of the publication board and Finals Week Com-
mittee, and vice-president of Fancy Dress.

 

Pat JonEs, who wrote the above sketch of Henry
Johnston, has been city editor of the Huntsville Times
since November, 1931. He went there from his home at
Gordonsville, Va.,to take the job and has made a success
of it. He has written a number of feature articles on that
section; in fact, he prefers feature writing to other
phases of newspaper work. Historical subjects are his
hobby ; but he manages to write a few short stories from
time to time as well.

 

Homecoming Attendance

Iv was estimated that over 10,000 visitors descended
upon Lexington for the Washington and Lee and Vir-
ginia Military Institute homecoming week-end. Hotels
and inns were jammed, as were all restaurants. The
Washington and Lee-Virginia Tech morning game drew
8,000 fans, and 7,000 attended the V. M. I.-Virginia
afternoon battle. °

 

The President's Page

(Continued from page three)

members of the student committee on Christian work.

In the broad sphere of campus citizenship, such
features as the plan of student government and the
honor system itself tend to develop self-reliance and
responsibility. But we are seeking also to throw every
resource of older and mature wisdom into friendly ser-
vice for the cultivation of each individual life.

FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES

[ 6 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

His is the Railway World

0 SUCCESSFUL have many graduates of Wash-

ington and Lee’s School of Law become that it
is difficult to single out any particular man and relate
the story of his achievmeents in the business or pro-
fessional world. How-
ever, there are some who
have become particularly
outstanding in their field
and who have won the
plaudits of their state or
of the nation at large.

Such a man is Henry
Hitt Larimore, who was
graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee with a LL.B.
degree in 1896.

Mr. Larimore is now
general attorney and in-
terstate commerce council
for the Missouri Pacific
Railroad Company and
has his headquarters in
St. Louis, Missouri.

Upon graduation from
the University Mr. Lari-
more very modestly says
that he began the practice
of law in Missouri and
until 1909 was what
might be considered just
an “‘ordinary country law-

eran

yer with a general prac-
tice.”” However, he was
not destined to be an “‘or-
dinary lawyer” very long.

In 1909 this alumnus
entered the service of the
St. Louis Iron Mountain
and Southern Railway
Company. He joined the
the legal department of this company—the legal depart-
ment of the claims division, which was located at Little
Rock, Arkansas. In 1911 he was appointed district claims
attorney for the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company at
Kansas City, Missouri. His rise in the railroad world
was rapid and in 1914 he was transferred from Kansas

City to St. Louis and made assistant attorney for the
Missouri Pacific.

 

Henry Hitt Larimore

N

Two years later Mr. Larimore was appointed assist-
ant general attorney for Missouri for the Missouri
Pacific Railroad Company, holding these positions un-
til 1932 when he was named general attorney and

interstate council for the

‘ Missouri Pacific Railroad

Company. This new po-

sition gave him jurisdic-
tion over all lines.

Recently, in 1932 to
be exact, and to quote
from Mr. Larimore’s own
sketch of his life, he was
appointed interstate com-
merce council for the In-
ternational-Great North-
ern Railroad Company
and for the New Orleans,
Texas and Mexico Rail-
way Company. His posi-
tion with the latter named
company still holds, in-
cluding in his work and
his jurisdiction all of the
company’s subsidiaries
generally known as the
Coast Lines. These duties
he undertook in addition
to being general attorney
and interstate council for
the Missouri Pacific.

All matters affecting
operations of the Missouri
Pacific, the International
Great Northern and the
Gulf Coast Lines, involv-
ing the laws of the Unit-
ed States regulating in-
terstate commerce, comes
under the direct jurisdiction of Mr. Larimore’s office.

Mr. Larimore was born at Mexico, Missouri, Sep-
tember 14, 1874. He spent four years at the Missouri
Military Academy and was graduated from there in
1894. During his last two years at the academy he was
named “the most soldierly cadet” in the battalion and
was graduated with the highest honors. Records show
that during his senior year at that school he was award-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

ed every prize given at the school for scholastic ex-
cellence. Mr. Larimore also recalls that he was active in
athletics at the military school and for the last two
years there was captain of the football team.

At Washington and Lee he continued his activities
in athletics, being a member of the football teams of
04 and ’95. He was vice-president of the Missouri
Club at the University and, he says, very active in
keeping alive the interests of Missourians then attend-
ing Washington and Lee. During his last year at Lex-
ington he was associate editor of the old Southern
Collegian and was an active member of the Washing-
ton Literary Society.

Besides holding his numerous railroad offices, Mr.
Larimore is director of the Plaza Bank of St. Louis.
He is a member of the St. Louis, Missouri, and the
American bar associations.

Mr. Larimore is married and resides at 7369 Per-
shing avenue, University City, a suburb of St. Louis.

Various organizations have honored him from time
to time for his work in law and for his keen judgment
in interstate commerce matters, particularly as they
affect railroads.

The Centennial History of Missouri, published in
1921, has this to say:

“As a lawyer he is particularly skillful in develop-
ing all the facts relative to a controversy, and his suc-
cess is also attributable in large measure to his energy
and his careful preparation of his cases. He is very
forceful in conducting a trial and is strong in the high
courts of appeal. His briefs are considered models and
he is an eloquent and forceful speaker, who at all times
has been found energetic and competent in the conduct
of important litigated interests.”

 

Homecoming a Big Success

More THAN 1,500 alumni returned for homecom-
ing day festivities, a check on registrations shows. This
is the largest number ever to return for the annual cel-
ebration, according to records in the alumni office.

Two “homecoming cups” were awarded by the alum-
ni association, one for the best fraternity house decora-
tion and one for the largest number of alumni returning,
Sigma Phi Epsilon won the award for decoration and
Phi Kappa Sigma, with 43 former students registered,
took the other cup. The cups will remain permanently
in the possession of these fraternities.

- sigma Phi Epsilon’s front yard was converted into
a “graveyard” for the week-end, surrounded with a
white picket fence, inside of which were small “crosses”
bearing the scores of the teams played to date by the

Generals. An open “grave”? was to the front, with a
“casket” draped in V. P. I. colors and a large question
mark on the slab. On the house itself was a large re-
production of the heart-shaped Sigma Phi Epsilon
badge.

At night the yard and front of the house was light-
ed by two brilliant spotlights.

So much attention was attracted to the unique dec-
orative effect that the Washington (D. C.) Post carried
a photograph of the “graveyard.”

 

A Note by the Editor

BEGINNING with this issue, Richard Powell Carter,
who was graduated from Washington and Lee in 1929,
becomes managing editor of the Alumni Magazine. Mr.
Carter resigned an editorial position with the Greens-
boro, N. C., Daily News in August of this year to re-
turn to his alma mater and assume charge of the uni-
versity news bureau, and to teach journalism. He has
held responsible newspaper positions in the past few
years, and also has had experience in magazine work.
The magazine still is under the mechanical supervision
of C. Harold Lauck, and is printed in the journalism
laboratory at Washington and Lee. Mr. Lauck is super-
intendent of this laboratory and instructor in journalism.

Cy Younc

 

Kern Elected Indianapolis Mayor

AMONG THOSE swept into office in the Democratic
landslide of November was Judge John W. Kern, class
of 1920, who was elected mayor of Indianapolis by a
majority well in excess of 10,000. Judge Kern, who
presides over Superior Court in Indianapolis, jumped
into the lead at the first vote tabulations.

Judge Kern took his LL.B. degree from Harvard
after graduating from Washington and Lee. He is the
son of the late United States Senator John W. Kern,
and will become one of the youngest mayors of large
cities when he steps down from the bench of Superior
Court the first of the year and takes over the reins of
government of Indianapolis. He is married and has
one son, John III.

 

The Alumni Magazine will carry a story about
Fancy Dress in the next issue, but this is to tell you
that the ball will be held January 25. Music this year
will be by Isham Jones, well known dance orchestra.
All indications point to one of the best Fancy Dress
balls in many years.

[ 8 ]

a a

—.. %

a —_ oe >

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

State and Conference Champions!

By RicHarpD POWELL CARTER

co

Ex TrLson’s powerful Generals are perched at
the top in the football world: the Generals are

Southern Conference champions, and for the second

consecutive year hold the Old Do-
minion gridiron crown.

The march to gridiron glory really
started when Washington and Lee
whipped Kentucky 7-0 in the mud,
then trounced Maryland 7-0, also in
the mud, to launch their conference
campaign. In the Southern circuit,
the Generals have won four games
and lost not a single one; they have
scored 54 points to their opponents’
fourteen.

The Generals hold undisputed
leadership in the conference, although
North Carolina went through the
season without a defeat in the asso-
ciation. The Tar Heels, however, were
tied by North Carolina State, win-
ning their other two games. |

who led the way in his last college football game.

The Generals scored first when Mattox flipped a
pass across the goal line to Bill Ellis, who scored stand-

 

 

Soo

The climax to Tilson’s conference drive came down
at Columbia, S. C., on Thanksgiving day when the
Generals came from behind after the Gamecocks had
scored in the first quarter, and pushed across two
touchdowns for a 14-7 victory and the conference toga.

It was a game in which
anything could happen,

ing up. The “last of the Monks” then
proceeded to kick goal from place-
ment for the extra point.

That tied the score at 7-7, but in
the last quarter, when the Generals
had pushed South Carolina down the
field with the aid of sophomore backs
and Chip Jones, Mattox again flipped
a pass, this time to Bill Seaton, who
grabbed it and stepped across the line
for the winning tally.

And again Mattox contributed by
kicking the extra point from place-
ment.

It was a well-balanced eleven that
won the Southern conference title,
an eleven that boasts no particularly
outstanding individuals, but works
together perfectly. Observers have

said that it is a tribute to Tilson that his team was so
well rounded it could meet any situation.

The Generals were impressive in their conference
campaign, and more the deserving champions than ever
in their final clash at Columbia. They had support, too,

from all sources. Lex-
ington people sent wishes

 

and although Washing-
ton and Lee was favored
over the Birds, sports
writers gave the home
team a good chance to
score an upset.

South Carolina scor-

Southern Conference Standings

— —_—

Washington and Lee .. 4

North Carolina ........... 2
ed via the aerial route DM es cia ct aesretiaidkcihee 3
fray 10 the cpaneea Dee Maryland 3
iod and things looked rl seabed a 5
hed for 4 few mination ae nin eS
for a few minutes only. Bie eae me tery ,
Then the Generals’ su- as Re te :
perior condition and keen SE ee Ee eee
football ability began to : — bbhvad. te becbest ness ,

tell. And it was Captain
Sam (Monk) Mattox

 

54
39
98
59
37
aD
49
25
29
18

mh wWwWWwWworeeekK COO
oormooqocouo0corFcos

 

for success and congrat-

ulations after last battle.

Bill Rafertyand Ed Hess

of Virginia Military In-

op stitute sent a telegram

14 wishing the Generals

13 luck just before the

13 game, as did Jack Zim-

16 merman, captain of the

% Cadets. They were ges-

59 tures that the Generals
45 appreciated.

52 Briefly, here’s what

97 Washington and Lee did

121 on the gridiron this year :

With victories over

Virginia and Virginia

 

Fine

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Tech, the Generals needed only a triumph over Wil-
liam and Mary’s Indians to clinch their second consec-
utive Old Dominion title. They got that victory, trounc-
ing the Indians 7-O when Charlie Smith, end, of Jack-
sonville, Florida, intercepted a pass and raced seventy-
one yards down the sidelines to score standing up.
For three periods the Indians had thrown one scare
after another into the Generals, who were fighting hard
to retain their crown. For three periods things looked
dark, because the William and Mary team was no mean
outfit, playing a brand of football com-
parable to the best. Then Smith put on
his second pass-intercepting act to give
the Blue and White a touchdown. Cap-
tain Mattox kicked the goal—the last
placement kick that will be made in Vir-
ginia collegiate football by one of the
Mattox brothers, because it was the final
appearance of a Mattox in the state.
Washington and Lee has gone through
a spectacular season, losing only to three
of the best elevens in the nation, and
walking off with the big end of the score

in other games. The
Generals fell 12-0
before a mighty
West Virginia
eleven; outplayed
Princeton through-
out the game only
to lose 14-12 on a
last minute break
and a pass; and
bowed to the well-
nigh _ unbeatable

 

pe ace

ne.

Bit SEATON

 

 

Bil DOVER

Midshipmen of the
Naval Academy 26-0.

Presenting one of
the heaviest lines seen
in this part of the
country in many a
football season, the
Generals have been in
the spotlight ever since
their first game with

 
 
  
  
  

CHARLES SMITH

Wofford college, when they won 19-0
in impressive fashion. The forewall
averages this year just about an even
200 pounds from end to end, and 207
pounds from tackle to tackle.

And the backfield, widely regarded
as problematical by sports writers, has
come through in fine style, accounting
for itself with smart football and speed.

After the Wofford tilt, the Gen-
erals smashed Kentucky in the mud and brought home
a 7-0 victory that immediately stamped them as one of
the leading teams of the section. Not satisfied with that,
they proceeded to win from Maryland on Wilson field
in the next game, also by a 7-0 score.

The traditional West Virginia battle at Charleston
followed, Tilson’s lads bowing for the first time of the
year, 12-0. It was an off-day for the Generals, observers
agreed, but the Mountaineers were “on,” tearing into
them in an effort to lengthen their record of victories
in the annual classic.

From Charleston the Generals went to Princeton

 

[ 10 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Bee en to do battle with a
. team that had startled
the football world by
rolling up such scores
as 75-0. The Tiger was
rampant, sports writ-
ers said, but added that
the Old Dominion
eleven was not to be
trifled with. The warn-

 

CLARENCE CARMEN

ing was a good one for Nassau, because
an inspired Washington and Lee team
played the powerful Tigers off their feet
most of the game. It was a bad break
that gave Princeton the ball on the Gen-
erals’ thirty-yard line and a touchdown
in the last few seconds of the play, mak-
ing the score 14-12.

The homecoming clash with Virginia
Tech followed, and in the last quarter
Captain Mattox flipped a short pass to
Charlie Smith, who outdistanced the field
to score on a seventy-yard run. The homecoming affair
Was one of the most exciting games played on Wilson
field in many a day, returning alumni agreed.

The disastrous Navy game came next, and that day
it appeared that every pass attempted by the Midship-
men was good for a long gain. “Those passes stuck
€very time they flipped one,” Cy Young remarked after
the din of battle had died away. That perhaps is the
best description of the game, because the famous Buzz
Borries led an aerial attack that could not be stopped.

 

GEORGE GLYNN

After the Navy the Generals trekked across the
mountains to Charlottesville to smash the Cavaliers in
their homecoming day game by the convincing score of
20-0. Washington and Lee practically played under
wraps throughout the game, which was staged on a rain-
soaked field, a drizzling rain making it disagreeable for
spectators and players alike. Outclassing Virginia in
every phase of football, the Generals scored almost at
will, being stopped twice, however, when the Cavalier
line showed unexpected power and held for downs near
the goal line.

That victory put Washington and
Lee definitely at the top in the state race
and only the William and Mary game
remained.

The Generals lost nine men_ this
year, nine men who have been sparkplugs
in the attack.

Included in those who sang their
swan song are some of Coach Tex Til-
son’s most valuable men, all of whom
contributed heavily to the Generals’
march to a second Old Dominion title

andaconference
crown. Tilson has lost
one quarterback, two
other ball carriers, two
ends, two tackles, one
guard and his center.
The South Caro-
lina game was the last gi
game for Bill Seaton
of Charleston, West

 

ee

 

LEW/S MARTIN

[ 11 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Virginia, light but speedy quarterback whose signal
calling has been one of the factors in Washington and
Lee’s successful season. And it was the last game for
John P. (Chip) Jones of Cleveland, Tennessee, whose
work as a fullback has been valuable to the Generals.
Captain Sam (Monk) Mattox was the third ball car-
rier who was in uniform for the last time.

Men who will be hard to replace in the line also
packed their collegiate football togs after the Columbia
classic. George Glynn of New York City, one of the
best centers seen in this section of the country in some
time, was one of them. The game also was the last
for Lewis Martin of Richmond, experienced guard.

Two ends included in this group ate Charlie Smith
of Jacksonville, Florida, whose pass-snatching was the
salvation of the Generals in at least two games this year,
both of them called “his victories” by sports writers;
and Jay Henthorne of Ashland, Kentucky, dependable
and experienced football player who will be missed when
the Generals take the field next year.

Bill Dyer of Johnson City, Tennessee, and Clancy
Carmen of Mount Hope, West Virginia, are the two
tackles who will play no more for the Generals. Dyer
has started every game
of the season and has
: e been one of the most
tee 4 dependable gridmen in
ee the heavy Wash-
ington and Lee line.

All in the group are
letter men and all have
seen heavy service this
season. And although
it’s entirely too early
to talk about next
year’s prospects, Tex
Tilson points out that
loss of these men will
mean rebuilding the
a i ea team for another
eae . |) campaign.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

Others who have

played important
roles in the Gen-
eral’s 1934 cam-
paign include Hugo
Bonino, 233-pound
tackle and guard
from Hawthorne,
N. J.; Bill Ellis of
Ashland, Kentucky ;

|. HENTHORNG Preston Moore of

Lexington, Virginia;
Duane Berry of Vin-
ton, Virginia ; the 257-
pound Tubby Owings
of Norfolk, Virginia ;
Wilton Sample of
Shreveport, Louisiana ;
Charles Brasher of
Rutherford, N. J., and
Ed Seitz of Cass, W.
Va. All of them have
been called on repeat-
edly to stave off at-
tacks and. to provide
offensive power.

In Bill Ellis, end,
the Generals have
one of their most
powerful kickers of
recent years. He
boots the ball sixty
yards without dif-
ficulty and many
of his punts have
carried over seven-
ty. Joe Arnold and
Jack Bailey, jun-
iors like Ellis, have oe
accounted for a ee sisi
great deal of & or J.P. JONES
ground gained this
year, Arnold at quarter and halfback and Bailey at
halfback.

Bonino, a junior also, is one of the most dependable
linemen on the squad, big and powerful and apparently
having a knack of seldom getting hurt. “Stopped by
Bonino” has been a frequent report of the sports
scribes covering the Generals’ games this year.

 

Seitz has alternated with Glynn at center in some
games and handles the ball with ease. He weighs 176
pounds and is a junior in the university.

Berry, guard; Brasher, end; Owings, tackle; Sam-
ple, fullback; and Moore, halfback form a quintet of
sophomores who will carry a great deal of the burden
next year. Berry and Owings have been regular starters,
and it was Fritz Crisler who remarked after the Prince-
ton game, it is said, that Owings broke up more of his
plays than any lineman seen at Palmer Stadium for
several years. All are heavy, hard-driving gridders.

Tilson also has a capable set of reserves who will be
back in uniform next year, many of whom will break
into the lineup as a result of their added experience.

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Riegel Writes on Propaganda

A STARTLING book that reveals wide distortion and
corruption of world news was brought from the
press November 24, with O. W. Riegel, director of
journalism at Washington and Lee university, as the
author. Appropriately titled ‘“Mobolizing for Chaos,”
the book is a study of propaganda as it affects news
reaching the readers of the world, and tends to show
how control of
communication fa-
cilities leads to a
mastery of the
masses and a threat
to peace and to civ-
ilization itself.

Mr. Riegel of-
fers facts to prove
that charlatans,
statesmen, dicta-
tors, financiers, pol-
iticians, and even
the League of Na-
tions are slanting
public opinion. Be-
ginning with a
study of the fight
of the great powers
for control of wire
communication, and
the use of these
channels for prop-
aganda, the .author
leads up to modern
tendencies in radio
broadcasting and foreign news reporting, pointing out
that today’s news is colored by foreign and domestic
political and commercial interests.

The book in effect is a warning against a “powerful
new force” that threatens to produce a new Dark Ages.
The undisguised extent of propaganda and its “benefits”
in Germany under Hitler are treated at length, as well
as the “jamming” of wave bands by competing national-
istic radio stations to shut out “news” of rival stations.

Even the American press association fails to escape
the spotlight of publicity turned loose by Professor
Riegel. He tells of secret negotiations between the news
agencies of the world and brings out the apparent desire

 

O. W. Riegel

of some foreign press associations to control news |

abroad as well as at home.

“Mobilizing for Chaos,” which is published by the
Yale University press, is sprinkled with stories illustrat-
ing the distortion of news. Professor Riegel cites the

danger of exaggerated accounts of Japan’s attack on
Shanghai and the wild rumors given publicity when
Dollfuss was slain. While the current munition investi-
gation shows the danger of the trade in guns, the book
shows the more fundamental danger of trade in propa-
ganda, through which the millions are whipped into
action.

Mr. Riegel formerly was on the European staff of
the Chicago Tribune and New Yory Daily News and has
done extensive newspaper work in the United States. He
has made two recent trips to Europe collecting material
for the book. He came to Washington and Lee four
years ago from Dartmouth college and this year was
appointed acting director of the Lee School of Jour-
nalism at the university. He was graduated from the
University of Wisconsin in 1924 and did his graduate
work at Columbia university.

 

The Southern Collegian This Year

THE FALL NUMBER of the Southern Collegian, lit-
erary magazine published by the students at Washington
and lee university, came from the press this month,
carrying a well-selected group of articles. Two of the
features are written by members of the Washington and
Lee football team, Howard Calvert (Tubby) Owings
contributing a satirical sketch and Joe Arnold writing
on “Football Dons a High Hat.”

The magazine is edited this year by James E. Brown
of Camden, South Carolina. Purnell Diggs of St. Louis,
Mo., is business manager. Ben Thirkield of Middleton,
Ohio, is desk editor, and Bill Dyer of Johnson City,
Tenn., is art editor.

The cover is done by Dyer, Washington and
Lee’s “artistic tackle,” who sketches excellently and
plans to make cartooning his life work. It depicts a
small ball carrier, waving to the stands, about to be
smothered by a hard-boiled tackler “the size of a truck.”

The magazine carries as a feature photographs of
the young women who led the Thanksgiving dances at
Washington and Lee. They are Miss Eleanor Sttide-
baker of Luray, Virginia, and Miss Lydia Burgess of
Fort Worth, Texas. Miss Studebaker and Austin Brick-
er, president of the sophomore class, led the sophomore
prom figure, and Miss Burgess with Stewart Buxton
led the Cotillion club formal.

The magazine carries an article on the theatre by
Tom Coley ; a book review page by Sam Cantey ; motion
picture reviews by W. W. Hawkins, and several very
interesting stories by amateur student authors.

[ 13 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

He Wrote the Words to the

Immortal “Swing”

Topp Rogsins, the man who wrote the words to
The Swing, came back to Lexington this month for his
first visit in twenty years.

And he liked it so well (liked the changes “for the
better” as he put it) that he probably will leave his
abode in France and make Lexington his home.

Now an internationally known author whose works
have been made into recent motion picture successes,
Todd Robbins has
been spending most
of the past ten
years in Villa
Franche, on-~ the
French Riviera. He
was graduated
from Washington
and Lee in 1912,
and since then has
traveled extensive-
ly and written suc-
cessful books and
short stories.

Perhaps the
best known work
of this alumnus is
“The Unholy
Three,” which
proved a hit as a
movie and was
translated into the French. A clipping from a French
newspaper refers most favorably to the book, and
speaks of Robbins as “another Edgar Allen Poe.’ He
is fast becoming a master of the horror story, as evi-
denced by another of his efforts, “Freaks,” also pro-
duced by the movies with great success.

It was some time between 1908 and 1912, Robbins
doesn’t recall the exact date, that the words to the
immortal “Swing” were penned. He sat the other day
in the Sigma Chi house and recalled the incidents lead-
ing up to the writing of the song:

The tune itself already was familiar to Washing-
ton and Lee men, having been composed, Robbins re-
called, by one Mark Sheaf, a native of North Dakota.
Sheaf wrote the music for a concert given by the
Mandolin Club of the University.

For several years students hummed and whistled
the stirring notes of what is now the chorus of the
ever-popular Swing. It was a hit even before the words
were written.

 

Todd Robbins

Then one day Walter Bootay, a Sigma Chi and so
a fraternity brother of Robbins, composed the music
of what is now the verse of the Swing. So good was
this music that they decided the song needed some
words.

So Robbins sat down and wrote the words to fit
the tune—and The Washington and Lee Swing was
the result.

Since those days Todd Robbins has devoted his time
to writing horror stories. His “The Unholy Three” has
run into eleven editions. He now is writing a series of
short stories.

One of Robbins’ favorite stories has to do with his
ownership of the “first automobile” in the Washington
and Lee student body. It was in 1910, he recalled, that
he brought to Lexington one of the early models.

There were no roads in those days fit for automo-
biles, so he had to ship the car to Lexington by train
when the session opened, then ship it back home when ~
school was over.

Robbins came to Washington and Lee from Brook-
lyn, N. Y. While at the University he was captain and
later coach of the track team and also took part in
other athletics.

Another of his favorite stories has to do, inciden-
tally, with his victory over the King of Sweden in a
tennis tournament in Europe several years ago. Rob-
bins still is an enthusiastic tennis player.

 

The Washington and Lee Swing was named in an
“all-American line-up” of college songs in a recent ar-
ticle in the Saturday Evening Post, entitled “Every-
body Up,” written by Kenneth S. Clark.

 

Lauck Prints Fascinating Book

THE FASCINATING story of the Vollbehr Collection
of Incunabula has been printed as a private press edi-
tion by C. Harold Lauck, director of the journalism
laboratory of the Lee School of Journalism at Wash-
ington and Lee University, and is being distributed as
a keepsake to members of the American Institute of
Graphic Arts.

The work is a reprint of an address by Fred W.
Ashley, chief assistant librarian of the Library of Con-
gress. It tells of the fifteenth century books, including
the Gutenberg Bible, the first volumes printed in mov-
able type.

The book was composed and printed by Mr. Lauck,
and was attractively bound by Mrs. Lauck.

[ 14 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Notables Heard at S. 1 P. A. Convention

UGENE Meyer, president of the Washington (D.
C.) Post, launched into an intensive attack on
the federal government’s “advertising solicita-
tion” in an address at the Southern Interscholastic
Press Association at Washington and Lee in November.

Pointing to a recent government circular announc-
ing “an intensive mail advertising drive designed to in-
crease knowledge of postal facilities which can be used
by local advertisers,” Mr. Meyer predicted that such
a4 move would reduce the ligitimate receipts of daily
newspapers and weaken their position if successful.

The Washington publisher delivered his address at
a banquet November 3 which marked the close of the
S. I. P. A., sponsored annually by the Lee School of
Journalism at Washington and Lee. All attendance rec-
ords of the S. I. P. A. were broken at this, the tenth
anniversary convention, with 130 delegates, representing
34 schools from nine states and the District of Colum-
bia, attending.

Tracing the effect and relation of advertising poli-
cies, Mr. Meyer told the scholastic editors of the bus-
iness angle of newspaper work, stressing the fact that
ethics are needed in advertising circles.

Speaking of the government’s new policy, he said:

“One of the singular problems of competition that
they, the newspapers, have had to meet has developed
in the last fortnight.

“The Post Office Department of the United States
Government has actually circularized the business of
the city of Washington soliciting advertising business
for the United States mails.

“The postmaster of Washington, D. C., is pleased
to announce that the United States Post Office in this
city will sponsor an intensive mail advertising drive
designed to increase knowledge of postal facilities which
can be used to advantage by local advertisers.’ That is
the way the government circular begins. The way it
ends is this: “The postage stamp is the most economical
messenger in the world.’

“Federal administrations have not at all times felt
friendly to the newspapers of their day. This, however,
is the first time to my knowledge that the government
has entered into direct competition with the daily press.
If successful in any large way, this would naturally re-
duce the legitimate receipts of the daily newspapers of
America, and thereby weaken their position. Financial

independence is an indispensable requisite to editorial
freedom.

“However, I have done a bit of figuring, based on
the slogan from the government circular: “The postage
stamp is the most economical messenger in the world.’
The Washington Post sells something over 85,000 copies
every day. To send a sealed letter to each of these
85,000 buyers would cost $2,550 for postage alone,
with stamps at three cents each. If the same number
of letters were sent locally, where the postage is two
cents, the cost of postage stamps would be $1700. This

takes no account at all of the cost of the envelope, of the

letter paper within, nor of the stenographic expense of
writing the message.

“Now, if the advertiser should decide that this cost
is too high; that he would have to use one of the one
and a half cent envelopes, with a printed circular inside,
possibly he might be able to buy the envelope and have
the circular printed for a total cost of a penny per unit.
If so, his cost of reaching the 85,000 readers we are
talking about would be $2,125.

“For a cost of $14 the Washington merchant can
print in the Post an advertisement of the same length
as the average letter!

“Tt occurs to me that governmental competition in
advertising will not amount to much on that basis.”

During the three-day session the convention also
heard Harold S. Hundley of Richmond, Virginia, speak
on “Suggestions in the Selection and Use of Papers” ;
W. C. Stouffer, managing edior of the World News,
Roanoke, Virginia, who spoke on “Make-up and News.”

One of the feature addresses was delivered the eve-
ning of November 2 by Joseph V. Connolly, president
of International News Service, who spoke on the “Best
News Stories of 1934 and Why.” Mr. Connolly de-
clared in his address that “so long as Roosevelt is Pres-
ident of the United States I do not fear for the free-
dom of the American press.” Mr. Connolly also assert-
ed 'that he does not “share the alarm on the part of
some” who believe that influence would persuade the
President to forget his public declarations.

The scholastic editors also heard Fred J. Hartman,
director of education in the American Institute of
Graphic Arts, who discussed “The Appreciation of
Printing as Applied to High School Publications.”

Another featured speaker was Watson Davis, di-
rector of Science Service, of Washington, D. C.

[ 15 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class-agents for 1934-35

DurING the past year the class files of the Alumni
Office have been re-classified. It has been the rule here-
tofore to place a non-graduate in the class as of the
year he left school rather than that of the class with
which he entered. This has led to confusion in the
Class-Agent Plan under which the association is now
working, and will explain to many alumni why they
will receive class letters this year from the agent of a
different class from that of last year.

For example: a man entering in the fall of 1920
belongs to the class of 1924, whether he “goes on to
graduation” or not. A man receiving one or more de-
grees from the University is placed in the class with
which he took his A.B. degree.

1934—Amos Boren, Lexington, Va.

1933—Cart B. Vickers, Montgomery, W. Va.

1932—Henry B. MacKenzie and ALLEN S. Carr,
Building and Loan Bldg., Portsmouth, Va.

1931—Watcter E. Horrman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

1930—Herpert G. JAHNCKE, 6209 Perrier St., New
Orleans, La.

1929—Joun Bett Towrtt, 1015 Southern Finance
Bldg., Atlanta, Ga.

1928—F. M. P. Pearse, Jr., 490 Middlesex Ave., Me-
tuchen, New York.

1927—Cuartes J. Crocxerr, Widener Bldg., Phil-
adelphia, Pa.

1926—Basit G. Warxtns, Peoples National Bank
Bldg., Lynchburg, Va.

1925—Joun Cooper Morrison, JRr., Kanawha Valley
Bank Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1924—C. Hacan Minnicu, Bristol, Va.

1923—R. Mauricsé Frew, Rutherfordton, N. C.

1922—Lxewis A. Duntap, Pulaski, Va.

1921—THomas X. Parsons, Colonial American Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

1920—R. M. Case, Covington, Va.

1919—

1918—E. D. CampseELt, Southern Bldg., Washington,
pC:

1917—Hersert G. Perers, Bristol, Va.

1916—Brucre F. Wooprurr, 729 Healey Bldg., At-
lanta, Ga.

1915—Kiz Witiiams, Waynesboro, Va.

1914—CLARENCE L. SacER, 26 Broadway, New York
City.

1913—BenyJAMIN F. Fiery, Union Trust Bldg., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

1912—Wirttiam A. Hyman, 100 William St., New
York City.

1911—J. Nevin Kitmer, Martinsburg, W. Va.

1910—Laurence C. Wirren, Union Trust Bldg.,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

1909—Dr. Joun Witiiam Craupy, Rockview Farm
Prison, R. F. D. 3, Bellefonte, Pa.

1908—Dozier A. DEVANE, Federal Power Commis-
sion, National Press Bldg., Washington, D. C.

1907—Rev. A. R. Larrick, Plant City, Fla.

1906—

1905—Rerv. R. A. Lapstey, D.D., Virginia Ave., Roa-
noke, Va.

1904—-Grorcr E. Haw, 403 Travelers Bldg., Rich-
mond, Va.

1903—Rev. J. M. B. Git, St. Paul’s Rectory, Peters-
burg, Va. !

1902—Dr. Witt1AmM ALLAN, Medical Bldg., Charlotte,
N. C.

1901—Matruew Pact Anprews, 849 Park Ave., Bal-
timore, Md.

1900—

1899—Harry St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, Kyrock, Ky.

1898—Norman S. FitzHucu, Kanawha Banking &
Trust Co. Bldg., Charleston, W. Va.

1897—F. Perris Hamivton, 408 Walnut St., New
Orleans, La.

1896—H. H. Larimore, Missouri Pacific Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

1895—

1894—Jamers N. Veecu, 3907 Frankfort Ave., Louis-
ville, Ky.

1893—Lon H. Ketty, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg.,
Charleston, W. Va.

1892—Joun J. Davis, Kentucky Home Life Bldg.,
Louisville, Ky.

1891—

1890—Dran Dovuctas S. ANpERSON, Tulane Univer-
sity, New Orleans, La.

 

(Classes from 1889 through 1868 will have as their
class-agent the Alumni Secretary, who will keep
in touch with them himself by personal letters.)

[ 16 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

local Alumni Association Notes

New York

ONE OF THE Most successful dinner-dances was
held by the New York alumni at the St. Regis hotel
the evening of October 19, on the eve of the Generals’
game with Princeton. Approximately seventy alumni,
including John W. Davis, Dr. George Bolling Lee and
Dr. W. E. Dold, were present.

The University was represented by Richard P. Car-
ter, director of the Washington and Lee news bureau,
who attended the affair with Mrs. Carter. Neither Dr.
Gaines nor Cy Young was present due to conflicting
engagements.

Cocktails and hors-d’oeuvres were served in the main
lounge, after which the party went to the St. Regis
roof for dinner and dancing. Freddy Martin’s orches-
tra contributed several renditions of The Swing during
the evening.

A collection to send a band to the Princeton game
was taken up at the meeting.

Those attending included :

Clarence L. Sager 14; W. F. Myers Os te. CC.
Robert ’33; Stuart Wurtzburger ’28; F. Cole 18; N.
W. Burris ’26; W. Wilcox ’29; R. L. Sanford °32;
James Lord ’31; Robert Lee ’29: E. S. Marshall ’16;
W. E. Dold ’76; F. N. Mercer ’25; John Drye ’20;
W. C. McKnight ’24; John W. Davis 92; Leigh Bul-
loch ’26; H. D. St. John ’26; Richard P. Carter ’29;
H. M. Gould ’25; George B. Lee ’93; J. A. Lee as
Stuart Chevalier ’03; J. L. Powell 14; John Huff-
man ’33; H.*B. Busold ’28; W. E. Jones ’07; EK. W.
Poindexter ’25; Paul Bock ’24; E. C. Caffrey ’09;
E. W. Lee 713; E. Vernon Biddle ’26; T. Gordon Gib-
son °31; J. Hoffman ’33.

Baltimore

Forty-FivE former students of Washington and
Lee gathered at the Baltimore Country Club on the
evening of November 2 and formed an alumni associ-
ation that included men living in or near Baltimore.

The group elected W. Carrol (Johnnie) Mead, class
of 1925, as president, and named L. Waters (Jim) Mil-
bourne as secretary. Matthew Page Andrews, class of
1901, presided.

Dr. Gaines and Cy Young attended, and returned to
Lexington impressed with the enthusiasm shown by the
newly-formed association. Both spoke at the meeting.

It was quite a trip for the president and the alumni
secretary, too. They went to Baltimore by automobile,
driving by way of Harpers Ferry and Frederick, Mary-
land. In Baltimore, they were entertained at lunch at the
Baltimore Country Club by Johnnie Mead, and after-
wards watched the races at Pimlico. They also attended
the St. Johns-Franklin Day football game.

Following is a list of the charter members of the
Baltimore association, all of whom attended the first
meeting :

Lewis Lunsford Tignor, ’32; Frank Stone, —
Theodore C. Waters, °17; J. Hunt Sifford, Jr., 20; H.
Breckenridge Heaps, ’32; Frank H. Jacobs, Jr., ‘19;
W. T. Kilmon, ’23; Frank B. Mooers, Jr., ’33; J. A.
Burton, ’34; William D. Hoyt, Jr., 32; George W. P.
Whip, ’06; William Mellin Ballou, 93; M. R. Bruin,
Jr., ’24; John A. Johnston, ’19; John Clay Hoover,
23; Joseph E. Birnie, 24; Marvin Walton, ’24; C. G.
Massie, 03; William F. Sutton, Jr., °16; Roberdean A.
McCormick, ’76; Matthew Page Andrews, ’01; L.
Waters Milbourne, ’22; Eugene P. Martin, Jr., 32; W.
Carroll Mead, ’25; R. Palmer Ingram, 10; M. D. Wil-
liamson, ’17; M. Porter Sutton, 19; J. R. Stuart, ‘Zit
Emory Landon, ’07; Jerome Framptom, Jr., °33; Rob-
ert L. Thomas, ’11; Gray W. Hume, Jr., 33; William
W. Barron; F. M. Barron, ’31; A. H. Chandler, ’09;
Dr. John M. Spence, Jr., 28; Dr. Harry B. Neel, "28;
H. H. Butler, ’28; A. R. Middlekauf, ’28; Clyde A.
Compton, ’28; Dr. Louis K. Koontz, 08; Dozier De-
vane, 08; Beverly Rhett, ’29.

Philadelphia

TE WASHINGTON AND L&E alumni association of
Philadelphia met the evening of October 22 at the
Bellevue-Stratford hotel, with Dr. Francis P. Gaines
as guest speaker. Also present as an honored visitor
was Dr. J. W. Claudy, president of the university
alumni association, who addressed the group.

E. Waring Wilson was toastmaster, and in addition
to the two chief speakers listed above called on six
men, each one representing a decade in the history of
Washington and Lee. These informal talks began with
that of Victor Tucker, ’34, and included Francis Plow-
man, ’24, Robert Dow, ’12, E. W. G. Boogher, 02,
J. W. Lattomus, 96, and Dr. J. C. Ballagh, ’84.

Several fathers of students now present at Wash-
ington and Lee were at the meeting and James G. Lamb

Soca

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

spoke on “Why My Son Chose Washington and Lee
University.”

Late in the evening a radio was turned on and the
group listened to an address by Newton D. Baker from
Cleveland.

Considerable credit for the success of the meeting
was given G. H. Snyder for the trouble and expense
to which he went to make it a success and for the souve-
nir programs he had made up.

Notices on the dinner and descriptions of it were
carried in all Philadelphia papers. This publicity was
handled by Harry Robert, ’22, who is with the Phil-
adelphia Evening Bulletin.

Those attending included :

J. C. Ballagh, 84, J. W. Lattomus, 96, Mr. and

Mrs. E. Waring Wilson, ’98, Mr. and Mrs. E. W. G.
Boogher, 02, H. R. Axelroth, 07, Mr. and Mrs. John
G. Herndon, ’11, F. S. Johnson, ’11, Robert Dow, ’12,
Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Thorn, Jr., ’13, Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel H. Baker, ’16, Maurice B. Peikin, ’19, H. C.
Robert, Jr., ’22, Francis Plowman, ’24, Mr. and Mrs.
J. Goodwin Gill, ’26, W. J. Luria, ’28, Mr. and Mrs.
Frank T. Bready, ’31, Alberton Seeley, ’31, George H.
Snyder, Jr., °31, Frank Freeman, ’31, S. S. Woody,
"32, M. W. McDonald, ’32, W. L. Flagg, ’32, M. O.
Forsyth, ’33, Victor Tucker, ’34, Bill Fairlee, ’34.

Fathers: James G. Lamb; R. P. Cottingham; Mr.
Forsyth.

Mrs. William A. Glasgow, Jr., and wives of var-
ious alumni.

 

 

McCRUM’S

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP
SODA FOUNTAIN

BUS TERMINAL

x* * * * *

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To-
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks

 

 

 

Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MAnaceEr

Lexington, Virginia

SPECIAL
Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00
Stonewall Jackson, size 7x9, prepaid........ iis tae
Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid................ 1.50

Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

 

 

Geo. W. St. Clair
Class of 1891

 

C. R. Brown, Jr.,
Class of 1916

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Huston St.Clair
Class of 1922

 

[ 18 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1933

 

Joun WATLINGTON,
Tr., has been with the Wa-
chovia Bank and ‘Trust
Company in Winston-Sa-
lem, North Carolina, since
November, 1933, and likes

 

Much of the information about alumni presented
in the following class notes was gathered from the
‘general round of letters of 1934. As a result, there
may be later information due about some of those
mentioned. Let your class-agent know of any changes.

M. O. Forsyru is with
George A. Bailey and
Company, Investments and
Securities, 1518 Walnut
St., Philadelphia, Pa.

 

CHARLES O. COLLIER

 

the banking business.

JouHN GRIFFITHS writes from 41 Marshall Street,
Poughkeepsie, New York.

WALLACE WERBLE is a “newspaperman—nay a Ra-
dio Newspaperman” at 635 Earl Building, Washing-
ton, D. C.

C. P. L&E, Jr., Rhodes Scholar at Exeter College,
Oxford, was in Spain last spring, Norway, Sweden and
Denmark later in the summer, home, via New Orleans,
for a month, and then back for a visit to Ireland before
Michaelmas Term began. Such is the hard life of a
scholar.

ERNEST LEATHEM has a son about a year old.

Corr Abas is practicing law in Blackstone, Vir-
ginia.

CHARLES KAuFrMAN first had a job as a civil en-
gineer with the state road commission—a chemist build-
ing roads !—had charge of a party running the primary
survey for a new state highway; taught science and
math ; had been teaching about a month when he was
offered a job as control chemist in a pectin plant, and
in spite of the NRA, took the night shift until school
was over, resulting in working from eight in the morn-
ing until twelve at night.

1932

Jerry Hotstern is practicing law in Lexington,
Virginia. Has recently had five murder cases and the
only alienation of affection case that has ever been
tried in the Lexington court house. His client was
awarded a judgment of $500.

JouNNy Lapp is a clerk in a steamship office in
Mobile, Alabama.

LAWRENCE J. Roosk has had two years at Bellevue
Medical College.

Dick Doucur is handling the analysis work in
the laboratory of the New South Oil Company of which
his father is president and manager.

is working for the Home
Owners’ Loan Corporation in Salisbury, North Caro-
lina, and is connected with the Financial and Auditing
Department.

1931

Massry L. Prinvz is in his second year of teach-
ing in Page county public schools. He is located eight
miles from Luray, Va.

Hers Winston is married and has a position with
R. C. A. Radiotron in the city of Harrison, New Jersey.

S. A. MILLINER, JR., is with the E. I. DuPont de
Nemours Company at Wilmington, Delaware. He is
married and lives at 1020 Jackson Street, Wilmington.

Bren M. Ayres was married June 2nd to Miss Car-
oline Knight of Macon, Georgia. He received his LL.B.
from Mercer in June, 1933, and is now with the Legal
Department of the Federal Land Bank at Columbia,
South Carolina.

RENO PorTER is a student at the Medical College
of Virginia, and is president of the student body there.

ALEX VEECH is teaching in the Engineering De-
partment at Washington and Lee.

1930

JamMEs A. CastTNER has recently become associated
in the general practice of the law with Jacob L. New-
man, Lionel P. Kristeller and Saul J. Zucker, at 810
Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

Joun B. OLIver is a member of the House of Del-

egates of Virginia. He is married and his home is in
Bedford, Virginia.

Jim Hess is with the Adamson Flat Glass Co., at
Clarksburg, West Virginia. He gets back to Lexington
only occasionally.

R. W. MosEtey is with his father in the wholesale
grocery business at Conway, Arkansas. He has not
been in Lexington since leaving school.

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

LAURENCE Foor is married and has a four-months
old baby girl. He is practicing law with the firm of
L’Engle & Sands at 207 Law Exchange, Jacksonville,
Florida.

Britt Marsu is with the Fayetteville Supply Co.,
(wholesale automobile parts), at Fayetteville, North
Carolina.

A. C. MaRSHALL, JR., is married to “a little blonde
from Georgia,” and is working with the Marshall Mo-
tors, Inc., 27 East Marks St., Orlando, Florida.

Murret H. Kaptan received his M.D. from the
University of Louisville in June. For the past two
years he has served as Undergraduate Interne at the
local Jewish Hospital and next year will be a full-
fledged M.D. in an interneship at Tauro Infirmary in
New Orleans, La.

StanLEY F. Hampvron received his M.D. from
Washington University, St. Louis, on June 12, 1934.
Beginning July lst he became an interne at the State
Hospital of the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Claims
to be as loyal an alumnus as Cy Young himself.

Joun P. Lyncu, Jr., has completed his third year
at the Medical College of Virginia and has secured a
junior interneship at the municipal hospital in St. Pet-
ersburg, Florida. Sends his greetings through his class-
agent, to the class of °30.

W. W. (Mixer) PALMER is associated with Travis
B. Moursund in the practice of law in San Antonio,
Texas, with offices in the Gunter Building.

HeErnIE T. Groop writes that almost three years
ago he was paralyzed from his waist down and has been
abed for that period of time. The cause of this was
either infantile paralysis or an injury when he was
thrown from a horse. However, he has high hopes of
regaining his full strength. He writes a brave and
cheery letter. His address is 186 High street, Fitch-
burg, Mass.

1929

Henry P. Jounston holds a unique position as
local advertising manager of one newspaper and pub-
lisher of another. He has just been made Local Ad-
vertising Manager of the Birmingham News-Age-Her-
ald, of Birmingham, Alabama, retaining his connection
with the Huntsville Times and his title as publisher.

R. W. Hawkins is with the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey as a General Salesman, making head-

quarters at Clifton Forge, Virginia. He was married
about a year ago.

Sam LANCASTER is Assistant Commerce Attorney
with the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, Dallas,
Texas. He is the proud father of one son and two
daughters. Says that in his opinion he comes unpleas-
antly close to earning his pay, in spite of the years
spent in school trying to devise ways and means of
passing courses without learning too much about them.

Witiiam H. STucHeE i, Jr., graduated from Rut-
gers University the year after leaving Washington and
Lee, with the degree of Litt.B., and from New York
University Law School in 1933, with the degree of
J. D. Is employed in the law office of Friend and La
Cov, 40 Wall Street, New York. His home address is
33 Brookside Ave., Ridgewood, N. J.

Rosert D. PowErs, JR., is an attorney and coun-
sellor-at-law, Professional Building, Portsmouth, Va.
He is an approved attorney for the Home Owners’
Loan Corporation and has been busy examining titles
for them. He also represents the Morris Plan Bank of
Portsmouth.

James E. Bain is a teacher of teachers in the
Teacher Training School, Richland, Michigan. His
field is history and political science. He has two chil-
dren—a girl and a boy.

Norman E. Hawes has a Technician appointment
on erosion research with the Southern Forest Experi-
ment Station.

1928

Jrm CastNeER took the bar examination for New
Jersey last April and is practicing his profession at
810 Broad Street, Newark, N. J.

Buck BaILty is in the insurance business—con-
nected with the W. G. Harris Agency of the Aetna
Life Insurance Company of Dallas, Texas. He was
married in June, 1932. Made a “hole-in-one” on the
Glen Lakes Country Club course February 1, 1934.

Lyte ARMENTROUT is working for the American
Agricultural Chemical Co., of Alexandria, Virginia,
and lives at Edom, Va.; is married and has a baby girl.

Rocer J. HALLER is with the DuPont Rayon Com-
pany; lives at Avon, Virginia; commutes to Waynes-
boro.

[ 20 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1927

Davip H. Wise has completed his seminary studies
and is now Rabbi Wise, officiating in Omaha, Nebras-
ka. He married last February, Miss Sophie Selzer of
Cincinnati, a graduate of Northwestern University.

P. C. WHITLOCK is with the Westvaco Paper Com-
pany at Covington, Virginia.

ALLEN Harris, JR., has been right on the job with
the Harris Flooring Company at 21-23 Borden Ave-
nue, Long Island City, N. Y. His residence address
is 144 East 40th St., New York. He is Secretary of the

company.

1925

OLLINGER CRENSHAW is a professor in the history
department at Washington and Lee University.

THOMAS RoceErs NICHOLS is a physician in the
Clifton Springs Sanitarium at Clifton Springs, N. Y.

M. R. Bruin is teaching in the Franklin Day
School, Franklin and Cathedral Streets, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Wittiam WorcEsTER ELGIN is a physician in the
Sheppard & Pratt Hospital, Towson, Maryland.

Jog Cray Roserts is practicing law in the firm of
Gaines & Gaines, City National Bank Building, San
Antonio, Texas.

Gipson B. WITHERSPOON is practicing law in Mer-
idian, Miss.

Ep Rierze, Jr., is in the electrical business, in
charge of appliance sales in Louisville and Southern
Indiana for Tafel Electric Co., distributors for West-
inghouse Products.

1924

J. Mretvin LovEvace practiced law in South Bos-
ton for two years after leaving school and since that
time has continued to practice in Suffolk, Virginia. In
1929 he married Madeline Barrett of Suffolk and they
have a small daughter.

FRANK Switzer is general manager of the Har-
risonburg Mutual Telephone Company.

1923

J. B. Gorvon is with the Hutton & Bourbonnais
Co., Hickory, North Carolina.

NorFLEET TURNER is vice-president of the First
National Bank of Memphis, Tennessee. He is mar-
ried and has a boy five and a girl three years old.

Davip RaymMonp (Toap) SNIVELy is Sales Man-
ager for the Hagerstown Leather Company, manu-
facturers of leather goods, Hagerstown, Maryland.

J&AN EL is is in partnership with George 'T. Clark
in the practice of law under the firm name of Clark &
Ellis, 1317 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Florida. He
has three boys, Tom, Bill, and Edward.

GrorcE C. Mason is president and J. Vaughn
Penn, vice-president of the Gem-Dandy Garter Com-
pany of Madison, N. C.

1922

B. W. (PETE) HERRMAN, Jr., is President of Cu-
sick Metals (a trust estate), at 53 West Jackson Bou-
levard, Chicago. He has not been back to Lexington
since leaving school, but promises to keep in closer
touch hereafter.

“Dupre” SMITH, tiring of the tame life of a finance
corporation, became a stock broker in Wall Street
some two years ago. He is with Biggs, Mohrman &
Co., One Wall Street, New York. Among his acquisi-
tions are a wife and a young son about a year and a
half old. He lives in Summit, N. J., and has a front
yard to keep mowed, trains to catch and all the other
appurtenances of “a country gentleman.”

A. J. LUBLINER is a member of the House of Del-
egates of West Virginia. He lives in Bluefield.

EK. W. Brown is with the South Union Coal Com-
pany, with mines located near Uniontown, Fayette
County, Pennsylvania.

1921

J. B. Hoxe is with the Interstate Amiesite Co.,
Inc., at Martinsburg, West Virginia.

H. Gray FuNKHOoUSER has been teaching at the
Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H., since the
fall of 1932.

FRANK M. Pottock is with the Fire Companies
Adjustment Bureau, Inc., of Atlanta, Ga., located at
Bluefield, West Virginia.

SAM RAINEs is practicing medicine in Memphis,
Tennessee. He has a three and a half year old halfback.

[ 21 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1920

Grorcr S. MUELLER is located at 133-12 97th Ave.,
New York.

Joun W. Drye, Jr., is associated with Larkin,
Rathbone & Perry at 70 Broadway, New York City.
He has been married since 1926 and is the father of
a boy and a girl, aged six and a half and two years
respectively. He sends his best regards to all members
of his class.

Jor Horson is located at Prestonburg, Ky. He
says he is “plugging along in this small town in the
Kentucky mountains practicing law.”

Preston L. Connor is now at St. Johnsbury, Vt.
He is married and has two boys, aged seven and twelve.

Cart K. Gitcurist is with the Viking Distributing
Co., at Charleston, W. Va. He sends best regards to
all alumni, and says to look him up when you are in
the West Virginia City.

Suirtey J. Rossrns is living at Roseland Garden
Apartments, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y., and is with the sales
department of the Chevrolet Motor Co., 550 W. 56th
St., New York. He is married and has one daughter.
He says that everything is fine and he is looking for
better days ahead.

Rosert W. RusseEtt is Supervisor and Principal
of Amite City Schools, Amite, La. After leaving Wash-
ington and Lee he taught one year at Milledgeville,
Ga., and there married Miss Nannie Claire Lingo.

Russett G. Nespirt is with Nesbitt & Nesbitt, 800
Riley Law Building at Wheeling, W. Va. He says:
“After leaving the Harvard Law School in 1923 I
had the usual experience of those of our generation
in finding money was the fragrant blossom upon the
trees of milk and honey in the garden of prosperity.”
However, he admits he hasn’t missed any meals so far,
and we think he’s doing pretty well. He says that he
has seen Turner Bethel in Richmond several times
and that- Red Elliott is still helping his dad run the
Commercial School in Wheeling.

1919

Mosy Mors is with the Carolinas Department of
the Western Assurance Company of Toronto, Canada,
with offices in the Masonic Temple Building, Wilming-
ton, N. C.

Howarp McCarn is a member of the law firm of

McCaleb and McCaleb, Masonic Temple Building, New
Orleans, La.

Lynn McKeEnzik is with the McKenzie Chemical
Company of Montezuma, Georgia.

Sim Curisty has been working for the Sun Oil
Company in Texas since graduating from Washington
and Lee. He says: “Besides living in all the boom towns
of Arkansas and Texas, I have lived in Philadelphia,
Syracuse, Detroit, Pittsburgh and Erie and a few other
smaller places.” In 1922 he was married to Harriet
Walther of Chicago and has a son, Sim Bush Christy,
ten years old. His address is 821 Myrtle Street, Erie,
Pennsylvania.

1918

C. D. McCaseE went into the air service on leaving
school, became a pilot and almost reached England
where he was scheduled to take training to fly the big
bombing planes. Attended the University of Wisconsin
for a short time after getting out of the service and
then went to Winnipeg, Canada, where he engaged in
the grain business for around ten years. He is now in
the oil business in West Texas, and President of the
Golden Petroleum Company, a small independent pro-
duction company, but with hopes of doing big things
in West Texas. He has two boys and a girl, and has
hopes that one of the boys will go to Washington and
Lee.

Epwarp 1. GLApNEY, JR., is an attorney-at-law in
Bastrop, Louisiana.

W. G. ScANLon is practicing medicine in Pasa-
dena, Calif.

Paut J. Rocrrs is with the Heep Oil Corporation,
Gulf Building, Houston, Texas.

CHartes “DuKr” LomBarpr is a member of the
law firm of Lombardi and DeStefano, in Revere, Mass.
He practices law and has a side line in a radio act
of his own called “Tony’s Barber Shop.” New Eng-
land alone has been fortunate enough to hear it to date
—later on, maybe national hook-up. Likes the work
very much and it helps him forget the depression, the
bank holiday, Democrats, and all those alphabetical
bureaus. Says his law office has many callers, but the
only cash he collects is fifty cents when he appends his
notarial seal.

1917

Marran SANDERS says that of three institutional
ties Washington and Lee still stands as his first love

[ 22 ]

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and holds the firmer friendships. He is living in Wythe-
ville, Virginia.

Homer A. JONES is vice-president and cashier of
the Washington Trust & Savings Bank of Bristol,
Tenn.-Va.

James H. Forses is a member of the Jas. H.
Forbes Tea & Coffee Company, St. Louis, Omaha and
Kansas City, with his office at 908-26 Clare Ave., St.
Louis, Mo.

CuHARLES G. PETERS is practicing law in Charles-
ton, West Virginia. His firm is Mohler & Peters, with
offices in the Security Bank Bldg.

J. L. “Luxe” Wittiams has only been back to
Finals once since graduation. He is with the Bristol
Company, manufacturers of instruments for record-
ing, indicating and controlling, of Waterbury, Conn.
His home address is 44 Hollis St., East Milton, Mass.

Frep M. Davis is with Davis, Childs & Co., Lynch-
burg, Virginia—insurance.

Curtis Humpuris is a merchant with a_pros-
perous business at East Lexington, Va., where his fa-
ther before him was engaged in the same business up
until his death a short time ago.

1916

Harrison P. Macruper, after leaving Washing-
ton and Lee, was awarded the B.Litt. degree as a
graduate of the Pulitzer School of Journalism in June,
1930. He has been writing and teaching. He is deputy
county treasurer of Shenandoah County and lives in
Woodstock, Virginia.

GrorcE D. Suore, Jr., has been practicing law in
Sumter, S. C., since 1916, except for service in the
Navy during the war. He was married ih 1932 to Miss
Lila Gayle Hyde, of Charleston, S. C., and is a mem-
ber of the law firm of Mcleod & Shore.

R. P. Hawkins, Jr., is a surgeon in the Chesa-
peake & Ohio Hospital, located at Clifton Forge, Va.

Russet §. Ruopes is General Manager of the
Chamber of Commerce of Tyler, Texas. He says scarce-
ly a month passes that some graduate of Washington
and Lee does not come into his office.

1915

R. H. Coreman is with the Engineering Branch

of the Kentucky State Highway Commission. He lives
in Paducah, Ky.

Francis S. Deexrns is Sales Manager of the
World Fireproof Door Corporation, 448 Tiffany St.,
New York.

C. C. CHampers is practicing law in Logan, W. Va.

Dr. RicHarp W. Fow kgs is practicing medicine
in Richmond, Va., with offices in the Professional
Building. Dick graduated in medicine in 1920 at Vir-
ginia, and after interning at Bellevue Hospital and
specializing two years at Vanderbilt Clinic in derma-
tology, located in Richmond in 1924, and reports that
the “skin game” which he elected to follow is satis-
factory. He has been married three and a half years
and has a daughter.

Henry B. Grass is Assistant Judge of the Munic-
ipal Court of Lynchburg, Va. The Judge and the clerk
of this court are also Washington and Lee alumni.

Paut H. Jones is General Superintendent of Rich’s,
Inc., Atlanta, Georgia; is married and has a son eight
years of age.

HERMAN Hampton is Manager of the Houston
Mutual Insurance Agency, Kirby Building, Houston,
Texas.

Woopson P. Houcuton is a member of the firm
of Ellis, Ferguson, Houghton & Gary, Southern Build-
ing, Washington, D. C.

1914

Josg CAMINERO is a Civil Engineer at 60, Aguilla,
Havana, Cuba.

Epwarp M. Craic, Jr., is a Civil Engineer with
the New York City Board of Water Supply. His ad-
dress is 3515 78th Street, Jackson Heights, N. Y.

L,. R. (Marx) Hanna is a member of the law firm
of Murphy, Hanna, Woodall & Lindbergh, with offices
in the First National Bank Building, Birmingham, Ala.

ArtTHUR W. McCAIN is with the Chase National
Bank. His address is 18 Pine Street, New York, N. Y.

Henry BARKER is practicing law in Bristol, Va.

1913

J. C. Myers, 918 East High Street, Lexington,
Kentucky, has for the past nine years been connected

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

with a contractors’ equipment house in various capac-
ities ranging from salesman to sales manager. In April
of this year started a business of his own and is busily
engaged in getting it on its feet.

WALTER STEVEs, of the Steves Sash & Door Com-
pany of San Antonio, Texas, has been ill for three
years, but like all of his family in three generations,
is interested and co-operative in all that concerns Wash-
ington and Lee. He is well again. Is trying to use the
teaching of Dr. Hancock and “Granny” Campbell and
make them fit with what the “new deal” is making the
lumber business do. The difference is great at times
between the teaching and what is being done, so much
so that he regrets that he was not a better student under
“Liv” Smith for the amount of figuring necessary to
make the two ideas jibe.

Epwarp W. L&E, member of the Board of Trustees
of Alumni, Inc., is in the insurance business with of-
fices at 1350 Broadway, New York. As secretary of the
New York Alumni association, he has done a fine job
of work for the University and the Association.

S. C. Ross, of West Point, Mississippi, has a good
plantation near a wide-awake town of 5,000 population,
and is kept busy with cotton, corn, hay and other crops.
Also has a bunch of Texas steers getting fat in a good
pasture. With golf and tennis he tries to keep the
weight down and the muscles up. Looks like a good
life to us.

EuGENE C. Dickerson is a lawyer in the Liberty
Trust Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

1912

Dr. Epwarp Lyons is a chemist with the Parke-
Davis Company in Detroit, Michigan.

Dan OwEN is Manager of the Rockland Orchards,
Inc., Doylesville, Virginia. Dan has made the trip back

to Lexington for Finals every year since his gradua-
tion in 1912.

Pasco ALTMAN is practicing law in Tampa, Flor-
ida, with offices in the Citizens Bank Building.

Rev. Sipntéy Tuomas Ruck, Rector of St. Eus-
tice Episcopal Parish, Lake Placid, New York, was a
recent caller at the Alumni office.

1911

Joun G. HERNDON is a professor in Haverford
College, Haverford, Pa.

A. Dana Hopepon is again in foreign service for
the Department of State after serving for several years
as the head of the visa department in Washington,
Dit

PETER LANTZ is practicing law in Blacksville, West
Virginia.

1910

M. Cary JOHNSTON is in the firm of Carneal, John-
ston & Wright, Architects and Consulting Engineers,
Electric Building, Richmond, Virginia.

R. B. Lioyp is at Red Lion, Pennsylvania.

Water McDona cp, ex-president of the Alumni
Association, was in California on a trip, combining
business and pleasure, for a month in the early spring.
While there he made many alumni contacts which have
borne fruit in a splendid organization of alumni in
that section.

Puitip W. Murray is practicing law in Newport
News, Virginia. His firm is Lett, Murray & Ford,
with offices in the First National Bank Building.

Knox Smartt is with the First Trust & Savings
Bank, Chattanooga, Tenn.

1909

¢

W. Cary BarkKER is an evangelist—travels con-
tinuously holding successful meetings. His address is
Lynchburg, Va.

GrorcE Munprty WEsToN lives at Swanquarter,
North Carolina.

Rosert A. JONEs is connected with the sales de-
partment of the McKenzie Milling Company of Quincy,
Michigan. His mailing address is 148 Ocello Street,
Clarksburg, W, Va.

GrorcE W. CLEEK lives at Warm Springs, Virginia.
He has a son now a sophomore at Washington and Lee.

H. Lester Hooxer is Chairman of the State Cor-
poration Commission, with offices in Richmond, Va.

1908

Pryton Hopson is a lawyer in the firm of Har-
man, Francis & Hobson, of Pikesville, Kentucky. He
recalls a boat race in which the Albert Sidneys were
victorious and admits that his crew “knew more about
rowing than any crew that ever pulled down North
River.”

[ 24 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

W. P. Hooper has closed his fifteenth year as pas-
tor of the Highlawn Presbyterian Church at Hunt-

ington, West Virginia.

One of the most enthusiastic members of the class
of 08 is Louis K. Koontz. He was one of a few alum-
ni who gathered for luncheon with Walter McDonald
in Los Angeles last May, at which time plans were
made for an organization of the California alumni.
He states with pride that the Class of ’08 made up 50
per cent of the attendance at this luncheon. Since this
time the California alumni have had a splendid or-
ganization meeting. Louis is a Professor of History in
the University of California and is now on leave of
absence doing research work in Washington, D. C.
He was back for Homecoming.

Horace W. PHILLIPs is in the lumber business in
Hardeeville, S. C.

LuTHER G. Scorr claims membership in the class
of ’11 rather than ’08 by reason of his law degree with
that class. He says “In southern West Virginia and
western Virginia there are nine contiguous judicial cir-
cuits, composed of about 25 counties, all of which are
presided over by Washington and Lee men.”

Juttan S. Gravety has just returned from a
month’s vacation in Europe. He has recently changed
his business connections and is now with Crown Cork
& Seal Co., of Baltimore, Maryland. His residence ad-
dress is 1508 Pennsylvania Ave., Wilmington, Del.

Cart Hinton is thanking the New Deal for Post-
mastership of Hinton, W. Va.

1907

Dr. W. B. NEwALt, Independence Hospital, Enid,
Oklahoma, says that he and W. V. Collins, 04, often
recall with affection Dr. James Quarles.

Dr. Donatp W. M. McCtuer, Minister of the
Rose Park Community Church, Portland, Oregon, has
a membership in his church of 1337. He is a fisherman
and has a cabin on Still Creek, on the side of Mount
Hood—catches many fine trout.

1906

Rev. Tuomas F. Opie, D.D., is Rector of a group
of Episcopal churches in Maryland, St. John’s at Ol-
ney, St. Luke’s at Brighton, and St. Bartholomew’s
church at Laytonsville.

J. Ropert Switzer is Clerk of the Circuit Court
of Rockingham County, Virginia.

Bast MAN ty is Vice-Chairman of the Federal
Power Commission, Washington, D. C.

ALFRED MILEs WIrHERs is full professor of Mod-
ern Languages at Concord State Teachers’ College, at
Athens, West Virginia.

B. F. Kacgry is in the insurance business in Ef-
fingham, Illinois.

T. C. (Tussy) Strong is farming at Union Mills,
N. C.

J. C. CARPENTER is a member of the firm of Car-
penter, Major Brothers & Co., Inc., General Contrac-
tors, main office at Clifton Forge, Virginia.

1905

J. Pickens (Puck) WALKER has been promoted
from the Northern Division of the A. C. L. Railroad,
with offices in Savannah, Georgia, to General Super-
intendent of the Southern Division, with offices in
Jacksonville, Florida.

R. W. Wiruers is a member of the firm of Mc-
Kay, Withers and Ramsey, in the Citrus Exchange
Building, Tampa, Florida. When he graduated from
Washington and Lee in June, 1905, he was only twen-
ty years old and had to wait until September of that
year before he could get a license to practice law. Prac-
ticed in Bedford, Virginia, from 1905 to 1912; taught
law at Washington and Lee in 1912-13; resigned and
went to Florida and since that time has been engaged
in the practice of law with the above firm, with various
changes in its personnel. He has four children.

Rev. O. V. Armstronc has been a missionary of
the Presbyterian church in China for twenty-five years
until his return last year on sick leave. He is now pas-
tor of the Presbyterian church of Sebring, Florida.

1904

GEORGE KELLER is Secretary-Treasurer of the
Huntington Oklahoma Oil Company of Huntington,
West Virginia.

JoHN Knox ARNo-p is living at 770 Myrtle St.,
N. E., Washington, D. C.

W. O. WItson is President of the Davenport In-
surance Corporation, Managers and Brokers, Rich-
mond, Virginia.

[ 25 |

D. W. VAN DEVANTER is with the New Mexico
Public Utilities Corporation, Gallup, New Mexico.

GrorcE G. WorTHEN is Vice-President of the W.
B. Worthen Company, Bankers, Little Rock, Arkansas.

1903

Witt P. Lamar lives at 43 Muscogee Road, At-
lanta, Georgia.

Henry C. Cor spent his first year out of college
teaching in West Virginia, 29 years at Randolph-Macon
Academy and is now at the Front Royal Academy,
Front Royal, Virginia.

Rev. Cary R. Bratn, D.D., is Superintendent of
the Highland Institute at Guerrant, Kentucky. He has
been in charge of this “Home Mission Plant’ for seven
years. His work is with the young people of the Ken-
tucky mountains.

J. M. B. Girt, D.D., is Rector of St. Paul’s Epis-
copal Church, Petersburg, Virginia, and was in Lex-
ington for Homecoming. He is Class-Agent for 1903.

1902

E. W. G. Boocuer and his wife were visitors to
Lexington for Homecoming. His home is Merchant-
ville, N. J.

SAM W. Hairston is practicing law in the Colo-
nial National Bank Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

OsMAN E. Swartz is practicing law in Charles-
ton, W. Va., with offices in the Union Trust Building.
Osman will be remembered as captain of the 1901
football team.

1901

A. F. Wuire lives in Donora, Pennsylvania.

W. Dewey Cook is with the Southern Fertilizer
and Manufacturing Company, Savannah, Georgia.

CLEMENT A. Boaz is manager of the W. J. Boaz

Estate, dealer in city property and farm lands, Fort
Worth, Texas.

RicHarp C. Lorp is Registrar and Professor at
Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio.

1899

ALEX D. Hamivrton lives at 213 N. Sycamore
Street, Petersburg, Virginia.

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

L. A. Hickman practiced law for some years after
leaving Washington and Lee, and is now with the Fed-
eral Savings and Loan Association in the Greater Lou-
isville Building, Louisville, Kentucky.

R. O. Hur is Referee in Bankruptcy in San An-
tonio, Texas.

FLoyp W. Kine is President of the Virginia Pub-
lic Service Company at Alexandria, Virginia. Was in
Lexington for Homecoming and enjoyed it. He has
seven grown children, two of whom are married.

1898

Norman §S. FitzHucH has a warm spot in his
heart for members of “the old guard.” Says his time
is about equally divided between trying to convince
the Government that the taxpayer is right on the one
hand, and trying to convince the taxpayer that the
Government is right on the other hand. If he succeeds
in the former he gets paid for it, and if he succeeds
in the latter, he don’t. He has a son now in the Uni-
versity.

Dr. A. L. Merrepiru says he is a country doctor,
has a good wife and two children; was in the World _
War stationed at Camp Taylor, Louisville, Kentucky ; ©
likes his profession and his patients. His side line is _
church work. He is serving his sixth term as Modera-
tor of the Baptist Association including about three
counties.

1897

PauL S. FELDER is President of the largest music
house in the South. He lives at 605 Canal St., New
Orleans, La.

D. K. Cameron is living at 4829 Cimarron St.,
Los Angeles, Calif.

W. D. GresHam is with the Virginia State Board
of Education, Richmond, Va.

CaLEB CusHING WEBER, of Donaldson, Louis-
iana, prominent attorney and leader of politics in As-
cension parish, died suddenly at 12:30 p. m., Thurs-
day, October 25, 1934.

1896
FRANK Moors has been a member of the House of

Delegates of Virginia for ten years.

H. V. Canter taught for four years at the Uni-
versity of Missouri, and has just completed his twenty-
fifth year at the University of Illinois, Urbana, IIl.

[ 26 |

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ceci. CONNOR is representative of the twenty-
ninth Senatorial District of Virginia. His home is in

Leesburg, Va.

1895

WILLIAM ROBERTSON BONNYCASTLE lives at 408
Providence Bldg., Vancouver, British Columbia.

1894

GrorcE W. Garvin is Acting Postmaster of Boyce,
Virginia.

T. E. MERRILL is now a Brigadier General in the
United States Army. He participated in the Philip-
pine Insurrection Campaign, the Pershing Expedition
into Mexico, and the World War. Was made a Brig-
adier General in the Regular Army October 1, 1893.
His service has been primarily with the field artillery
and with the general staff. He is now in command of
the 11th Field Artillery Brigade at Schoolfield Bar-
racks, T. H.

Harry B. Lewis, D.D., is pastor of the First Meth-
odist Episcopal church of Streator, Illinois.

Births

sorn October 10, 1934, Margaret Ann Miller,
daughter of William M. Miller, A.B., M.A., 12. Mr.
and Mrs. Miller are engaged as pioneer missionaries in

North Eastern Persia. Their address is Presbyterian
Mission, Meshed, Persia.

Born October 23, 1934, Robert Day Miller, son of
Francis P. Miller, A.B., Washington and Lee, and also
A.B. and M.A., Oxford. Mr. and Mrs. Francis Miller
live at Pickens Hill, Fairfax County, Virginia.

Marriages

Erpy ALLYNE JOHNSTON, ’32, was married Novem-
ber 4, 1934, to Miss Peggy Mary Winston, of Raleigh,
N. C., in Staunton, Virginia. Erby is with the Liggett
& Myers Tobacco Company, with headquarters in
Staunton.

Ortro M. Stumpr, LL.B., 18, was married Novem-
ber 10, to Miss Thelma Ford, of Dunbarton, Virginia.
They were among the spectators at the Washington
and Lee-Virginia game that day in Charlottesville.

Joun Lewis Ericson, LL.B., ’33, was married
October 31 to Miss Lila Jeannette Dowling, of Middle-
town, Connecticut.

Martin Parks Burks, III., LL.B., ’32, was mar-
ried November 28, to Miss Rose Beverley Bear, in
Roanoke, Virginia.

R. B. McFaruin, °32, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was
married recently to Miss Elizabeth Morley. Ernest
Miller, 32, was best man.

 

[ 27 |

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni
of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact
business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of
specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to

place their cards in this directory.

 

Gibson Witherspoon

Attorney-at-Law

204-208 Lawyers Building

Meridian, Mississippi

Philip P. Gibson

x Attorney-at-Law

Marcum and Gibson
First National Bank Building
Huntington, W. Va.

Elwood H. Seal

Seal and Dice

General practice in the courts of
the District of Columbia and
Federal Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C.

OS SR TN Se SARITA RL Cases

William A. Hyman
Counsellor-at-Law

100 William Street
New York

E. C. Caffrey
1909

Court House
Hackensack, N. J.

Carlton D. Dethlefsen

Attorney-at-Law

Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.
14 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California

Woodruff and Ward

Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916
Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930

Attorneys-at-Law

928 Healey Building
Atlanta, Georgia

 

one or two openings for

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

exceptionally good college men.
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

James R. Caskie
1909

Attorney-at-Law

Peoples Bank Building
Lynchburg, Virginia

John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910

Tucker and Mason

Law Offices
Commercial National Bank Bldg.
Shreveport, Louisiana

Edmund D. Campbell
1918-1922

Attorney-at-Law

Douglass, Obear, Morgan and
Campbell

Southern Building
Washington, D. C.

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,
Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

Applications from Washington

 

 

[ 28 |

 

 

 

iY Pada t Pes hae go tae
Spek SRE Pee Me,

Ue PL Ge EP IS Le ae
beige Pe Bpest, fF iely) Be ™ EA.
Pee Ee Tae TU” ere ae

sot pe aT ahs
-~'é. rnd z
;

Hees :
AANEe Ae we >
oN git eae ue,
‘2 ce 7 ee

. +e Se 4 deed
Na ai ‘— Ay 2 a mJ on : 5 : a? ¥
pnt a a oN ere 7 ee at rp eee Peat” 38 7
Mas anal le De tek ‘ ae ane Ao ATS ce ashe
Mess oh ues 2 - - 4 q i ae i >
ed ara neh, Ce Ores ke ey een gy) ere
SS ube Gr hr: aa Fila ee ang th. hoe Teg
pa aepete Ay ae ; “ f ; +!

5 4

(tire

 

pam Dy
a

a arty
Pad Nee
1 * :
ih eee
uhh hey Rae eaeee
. ed ay % z "fh ~
4

De
ania «
ae
**
‘

J

‘om oe

. ye
‘¢

ae :

se Slat x4. oe ree
ia NA, ak’ kee z a %) : “ty ye
ete, ems ok

+S a

 

rie

+ +

APOGEE: ti

 

toed

¥
wan OVER, =
a i bok age ti ee y.
| a eee eae Rar es?
<A <a weet Paty 2s ; Ay * Aa: te ees a ere
. | =a « .s . . 7 . oe A * ; : : >
. > es
. *

° ea

d
*
se
ot
Cn ik
i Pn
et Ae.
4 oS eee
.
ak ae th eee
nie ab Oe de Peg
ts Pea: > a
of Bo! oy
.
~
ary

 

bn no dirt farmer

but | was brought up ona

 

tobacco farm and | know ic!
mild ripe tobacco... a

have a Chesterfield

Down where tobacco
is grown folks say...

“It’s no wonder that so many people
smoke Chesterfield cigarettes.

“To begin with they buy mild ripe
tobacco ... and then they age it.

“It costs a lot of money... but
it's the one way to make a milder, bet-
ter-tasting cigarette.”

 

© 1934, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

