A

‘ohoaiw Vi

DG armber >

of Washington and fee Universi

UMNi/apazine

   
  
 

$2.5 50 a Vear

<<
md
a

- J Ae a
~S *
eg Nd

.
~~

>
hm

 

    

 

H E a ae ee a ae GCG A Za aN SS

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of afford’ng a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact busi-
ness at a distance, or of a special professional characte. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty
or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are :nvited to place their cards

in the directory. Rates on application.

R. E. MOORE EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18,-’22

THOS. F. OGILVIE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW Suite 303 First National Bank

aa Douc.ias, OsEAR & DouGLas
Building

oe
Bluefield, W. Va. Southern Bldg., Washington, D.C.

Atlantic City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, ’13-’15, Lawyer ALEX M. HITZ ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

25-29 Citizens National Bank
and Federal Courts 411 Atlanta Trust Company Building th hiss

Suite 814 Union Bank & Trust Co. J

General practice in all State ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

 

Bldg., Huntington, West Va. Atlanta, Georgia Parkersburg, W. Va.

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE | JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, ’13
Citrus Exchange Building. ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Tompa; Florida Peoples Bank Building 811 Roxley Building
Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

W.H. Jackson, ’08 J. W. Dupree, 21

 

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman
Sam W. Mason

Compliments of the President of

 

 

the Alumni, Inc.
THIS. SPACE Aa SMITHERMAN, T UCKER & MASON
E. C. CAFFREY, '09 Law Offices
| Commercial National Bank
| Shreveport, Louisiana
D H. SEAL |
ELWOO CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN |
SEAL AND DICE GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW ATTORNEY-AT-LAW |
General practice in the courts of the Lewisburg, W. Va.
District of Columbia and Federal Suite 881 Mills Building
Departments mm: B. Moore, Principal

 

Associate Income Tax Specialists — San Francisco, California

1100 Investment Building
Washington, D. C.

J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Prin.
Telephone Sutter 3363

 

|
|

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
GENERAL AGENT

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1507 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. & L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Miami, and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are
usually 1 or 2 openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. & L. alumni have the preference.

  

H E A Lt me MAG A ZINN 3am

 

 

NED GRAHAM, ’12 MERCER GRAHAM, ’19

GRAHAM & FATHER

Varsity Haberdashers for One-Third of a
Century

LEXINGTON POOL| —
COMPANY |

 

“THE STUDENTS’ WINTER RESORT" |
3
W. & L. PENNANTS and PILLOW CASES :

 

 

 

 

“McCRUMS” For the Sake of Auld Lang

As Always the Gathering Place Of
= g Syne

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE Order a Virginia Smoke

Cured Ham

From
Unexcelled Fountain Service

M. S. McCOY

(Corner Main and Washington Streets)
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

SPECIAL: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on Application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.06 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money Order or Check Should Accompany Order
' HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

E. C. Carrrey, President

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. L. GRAHAM, JR., Treasurer

Harry K. Younce, Editor

 

VOL. VI

MAY, 1931

NO.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

wha Valley Bank.
Building.
ris Plan Bank.
1309 Hoge Building.

LOCAL ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS

CuHartorre, N. C—Dr. Wm. Allen, Medical Building. LovisviL_e, Ky.
WasHINcTON, D. C.—Elwood Seal, Investment Building.
Mempuis, TENN.—J. T. Morgan, Investments and Securities. CHARLESTON, W. Va.—Wirt W. Donnally, Kana-
Roanoke, Va.—Ran Whittle, Boxley Building.
BrrMINGHAM, ALA.—Mark Hanna, First National Bank Building. RicHMonp, Va.—Joe Bernie, Mor-
ATLANTA, GA.—Ewing Humphries, Healey Building. Forr Worru, TrExas—E. S. McCord,
JACKSONVILLE, FLa.—Fred Valz, Atlantic National Bank Building. New Organs, La.
—H. M. Blain, 322 Hillary St. Drrrorr, Micu.—Dr. Edward L. Lyons, Parke Davis Company.

New York, N. Y.

 

 

 

foN TENS

PAGE
To Honor Washington; Good Fellow............ 2
Here It Is—The Great Law Class of ’I7........ +
Lee Influence Felt in Science School.............. 7
Bibb, ’24, Now on Facullty..................... 9
W. & L. Coat-of-Arms is Analyzed.............. 10
Plans Made for Stadium.........................00000 11
SOOT TOKE: FOCUATITN iiss, 255-155): dcsseee nth duecebediozes 11
ee VE. OO re ns ee ee 12
Wien: Wy. Newsum, "2d.i..-ik....56565.5..000086 12
Business Leaders Meet at W. and L.............. 13
Princeton Again on Gridiron Card.................. 15
Meet the Bemis Brothers.......... Mien crea es. 15
jor ee OSS) RES Sa eS 16
Fans Look for Much Under DeHart.............. 17
eet meen o- Weal: <nsa.oeceen oi. 18
Monograms Won by 73............c:cccccccessceeeeeeeees 18

PAGE
“Snakey Joe’; A Name to Conjure With ..... 19
General Ermeaiers: Best.....................2..0.. ae 20
Norman Thomas Speaks................0...0cc:ccc00e 20

W. and L. Mermen Have Successful Season 21

Crew. Ramee SSCQIING.. 5.5.55... .cccees...chgune sod 21
Baseline 090 Os..csscstiissealéliesaaen Sasa 22
Fencing Team Organized......................cccce0e0s. 22
Fletcher Pays Rockne Tribute................0....... 22
Hobson Recalls the Good Old Days.............. 23
Year Marked by Four Fires...............000000000.. 24
New Student Officers Chosen..............0..0...... 25
Donnally Practicing in Charleston.................. 25
Cam pie PE RGMID sao 555505.,-05005.cdesspectoneasatete 26
Alumni Win Phi Beta Kappa...............0......... 26
Detroitapanummms Meet. ....0.0.... ccc ceeccecctas 27
Coon-Sanders to Play at Finals...................... 27

 

 

[1]

Bob Hobson, Inter-Southern Building.
Edward W. Lee, 1350 Broadway.

Lyncusurc, Va.—Gibson Woodson, Lynch

 

. = os

To Honor Washington; Good Fello .

power of his forces. It is interesting to note that h
gift, kept intact and valued today at $50,000, still yiek
to Washington and Lee a satisfactory rate of incom

To carry out the plans announced by Presider
Gaines, the University has appointed a trustee-fz It

 
  

 

Wy

ute to a different phase in the char-
acter of the many-sided first president.
In an announcement today Dr. Fran-
cis Pendleton Gaines, president of the
University, made plans for recogni-
tion of George Washington the edu-
cator.

Washington and Lee alumni will
be conspicuous in plans for the cele-
bration. In the center of this page is
a partial list of those who will serve
on the bi-centennial committee. Other
names are being added to this list as
the Alumni Magazine goes to press.

“All of us recognize the military
genius, the qualities of statesmanship
of George Washington, but few know
of his zeal for higher education and
his efforts to perpetuate it,” President
Gaines said.

“Washington believed profound-
ly in education. His intelligent con-
cern for this phase of national life
swept over a wide range, from per-
sonal sympathy for orphan children of
his own community up to statesman-
like pronouncements on the signifi-
cance of education in a democracy.”

Washington and Lee takes pleas-
ure in initiating the movement to rec-
ognize the first president as an edu-
cator because the University undoubt-
edly owes its life to a gift made by
Washington following the Revolution
when, as Liberty Hall, the poverty-
striken institution was being sucked
into a whirlpool of economic uncertain-
ty.

Virginia had voted 100 shares of
James River Canal Stock to Wash-
ington in appreciation of his services
as commander-in-chief of the Conti-
nental armies. Unwilling to accept the
gift for himself, the Virginian turned
the stock over to Liberty Hall, a school
which has contributed to the man-

A Lo aoe Ut

HILE the nation at large in bi-centennial cel-
ebration next year will honor the memory oi
Washington the soldier, the statesman, the
father of his country, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in this historic little Virginia town will pay trib-

Alumni Committee

NEW YORK
Dr. George B. Lee, Dr. J. M.
Glenn, W. R. Perkins, W. L.
McCorkle, John P. East, J. T.
Lykes, J. K. Graves, C. L. Sa-
ger, and A. W. McCain.
PHILADELPHIA
E. W. Wilson and C. C. Tut-
wiler.
WASHINGTON
Hon. Wade H. Ellis, E. H.
Seal, Dozier DeVane, Judge
D. Lawrence Groner, Hon. R.
L. Owen, and Hon. Miles
Poindexter.
BALTIMORE
Dr. M. P. Andrews, Dr. E.
P. Bledsoe, and H. R. Pres-
ton.
CLEVELAND
Herbert Fitzpatrick.
PITTSBURGH
Dr. J. W. Claudy.
CHICAGO
Cc. J. Faulkner, and R. G.
Lewis.
CINCINNATI
L. C. Witten, and W. A. Mc-
Donald.
LITTLE ROCK
Bishop J. R. Winchester, G.
G. Worthen, and J. R. Pen-
ick.

MEMPHIS
J. T. Morgan.

LOUISVILLE
J. J. Davis, Judge W. H.
Field, W. L. Hoge, and R. P.
Hobson.

NEWARK
Judge E. C. Caffrey.

RICHMOND
Hon. George C. Peery, Hon.
Louis S. Epes, Rev. W. L.
Carson, H. T. Wickham, Gov.
J. H. Price, Dr. A. A. Houser,
Dr. J. M. Hutcheson, Major
LeRoy Hodges, Hon. H. W.
Anderson, and C. H. Morri-
sette.

LYNCHBURG
J. R. Caskie, F. W. McWane,
Major Powell Glass, and Dr.
M. G. Perrow.

BRISTOL
Hon. John W. Flannagan.

[2]

M A G A 2a

   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  

alumni committee to work towards t
bi-centennial celebration. Headed ©
John W. Davis and Newton D. Bak
this committee will complete pk
several months before the twenty-s
ond of next February. |
Mr. Davis and Mr. Baker b
are trustees and alumni of Washi:
ton and Lee. Other members of 1
board on the committee are: Willi
McChesney Martin, St. Louis; Juc
Lewis S. Epes, Richmond; and H.
rington Waddell, Lexington. Me
bers of the faculty on the commit
are Deans Harry Donald Campbh
Robert H. Tucker, James
Howe, and W. H. Moreland, <
Prof. John A. Graham. Alumni me
bers are listed on this page.
Doctor Gaines and George Wal
er St. Clair, Tazewell, Va., rector
the trustees, are ex-officio membe

George Washington was a je
good fellow who loved to dance, ph
cards, entertain his friends in
home, hunt, fish, and generally
a good time. He may have cut doy
the cherry tree, but if so he probat
hid from his dad the rest of the dé

These and other interesting reé
lations formed the basis of an add
made to students of Washington at
Lee University by Dr. Albert B. Hai
nationally-known historian, writer, @
present historian of the United
for the celebration of the 200th <
versary of the birth of the first pre
ident. .
“That cherry tree story was jt
a myth,” Doctor Hart said. “It and
half-dozen of its fellows contribute
the general opinion that George Was
ington was pretty much of a prig. F
from it! He was a good scout,
fellow well met

T 2s a ee AS ee

“We are accustomed to think of Washington as
dignified, stately, rather aloof, tenacious of his dig-
nity, hard to approach. We have been thinking of him
as apart from everybody else, as military man before
the Revolution, as general of the armies, and as pres-
ident. We take some sort of foolish pride in thinking
of Washington as a man surrounding himself with
ceremony and keeping the people at a distance.

“But we have to change that feeling. It is a mis-
apprehension, an error not in accordance with his char-
acter as recorded in his writings and in what contem-
poraries wrote about him.”

Dr. Hart pictured George Washington as a man
always in command of himself but always wanting a
good time. He told of his temperate drinking, his love
for card-playing, his zeal for the hunt, and his con-
stant entertaining at Mount Vernon.

“Why, Washington had so many friends—many
of them self-invited—at Mount Vernon that the place
almost came to be a hotel. And he liked it; his diary
proves it. Literally thousands of persons visited him
there.”

Illustrating Washington’s love for dancing, the
speaker quoted from the writings of General Greene
who said, ““The General and Mrs. Greene danced for
three hours without stopping.” Washington’s fond-
ness for the theatre and for cards also were men-
tioned.

That Washington was a drinker but that he “never
was overtaken by spirits’’ was one of Dr. Hart’s points
in showing the president’s all-round good fellowship.
He told of a distillery which Washington started on
his place to use up surplus corn.

The first president was a joiner. He belonged to
the Masons by special ruling before he reached his
twenty-first birthday; he was a member of the Order
of St. Patrick, and his affiliation with other organiza-
tions was marked.

I

m mae G A Zt He fs

Eight years ago Dr. Hart gave the annual Phi
Beta Kappa address at Washington and Lee. Today
he was introduced to the students by President Francis
Pendleton Gaines of Washington and Lee. Several
years‘ago Dr. Hart was one of the speakers at the in-
auguration of Dr. Gaines as president of Wake Forest
College in North Carolina.

The historian kept his audience in a good humor
all through his address. Wrapped up in George Wash-
ington history, he used no manuscript, but had little
difficulty in keeping a continuous flow of word pictures
of the “first president of the United States, a good
fellow about whom too many misapprehensions are
current.”

 

El Dorado, Ark.
April 10, 1931.
Mr. H. K. (Cy) Young,
Alumni Secretary,
Lexington, Va.

Dear “Cy :”

Enclosing my check for $4.00 for the magazine.
Read each issue cover to cover, stopping on names of
1913-14 and ’15. More of them. Memory of those
years as fresh as of yesterday.

We are flattered by even a form request for news
of ourselves. No pardonable excuse for self-mention,
yet in hope more of the old class will reciprocate will
supply history in breaking sixteen years’ silence; wife,
Lena Goodwin; daughters, Bettie Sue, Lillie Jean,
Mary. Young yet. Business: Property investment,
oil production, usual hard times, director First National
Bank, Alderman, President Chamber of Commerce,

 

ROANOKE
R. G. Whittle, Judge H. B.
Gregory, L. J. Boxley, and
Hon. C. A. Woodrum.

STAUNTON
Judge H. W. Holt and Judge
J. A. Glasgow.

LEXINGTON
Harrington Waddell, Hon.
Harry St. George Tucker,

William McElwee, M. W. Pax-

ton, and B. F. Harlow.
LEBANON

Judge A. G. Lively.
NORFOLK

J. W. Eggleston, and S. Heth

Tyler.
CHARLOTTESVILLE

Dr. J. H. Dillard
LEESBURG

Hon. W. C. Hall

CLARKSBURG, W. VA.
E. G. Smith
CHARLESTON, W. VA.
W. C. Hardy and H. B. Smith.
WILLIAMSON, W. VA.
J. W. Goodykoontz
SUTTON, W. VA.
Judge Jacob Fisher
WHEELING, W. VA.
S. O. Laughlin
CHARLOTTE
Dr. William Allen
RALEIGH
Rev. William McC. White,
D. D.
ATLANTA
E. S. Humphreys, and Walter
McElreath.
BIRMINGHAM
P. W. Turner, and Henry P.
Johnston.

[3]

population 17,000, no better place. To W. and L.
man in next Congress oil is begging.
Yours,
J. D. TRIMBLE, ’15
ROME, GA.
J. M. Graham

JACKSONVILLE, FLA.
Reuben Ragland
NEW ORLEANS
Dr. H. M. Blain
DALLAS
Rosser Coke
FORT WORTH
I. W. Stephens and J. H. Sor-
rells.
GALVESTON
I. H. Kempner
FORT SMITH
V. M. Miles and C. W. Smith.
SAN ANTONIO
Albert Steves, Sr.
SEATTLE
E. S. McCord
SAN FRANCISCO
E. T. Coman

. 2... A bo Seon

Here It Is—The Great Law Class of ;

 
  

AW IS still the principal occupation of the war

time law class of 1917. Fred M. Davis, sec-

retary of the class recently conducted a sur-

vey, in which many interesting things were revealed.

Of the twenty-nine graduates of the class to whom

Mr. Davis sent the questionnaire twenty-one are still

lawyers. ‘Two are in the department store business.

Of the remaining, one is in the government service,

one in insurance, one in real estate, one is a tobacco
buyer, and one is an army officer.

Eleven states and one foreign country are the resi-
dences of the graduates. Virginia and West Virginia
are tied for first place, claiming seven each. The
foreign country is Porto Rico.

There would be no difficulty in getting a Demo-
cratic victory in this class. Twenty-two of them are
Democrats, three are Republicans, two are Indepen-
dents, and the Porto Rican is an Alianza. Also
twenty-two of them married.

The result of the survey is as follows:

BIOGRAPHIES OF THE GREAT WAR LAW
CLASS OF 1917

The biographies which follow are based upon a
questionnaire sent to all the members of the Law Class
which graduated in June 1917, the questionnaire calling
for “What other occupations have you had since leav-
ing W. and L,.?”; “Are you married; if so, when, to
whom, of where (not why); how many offsprings
have you, sex, and ages?” ; “Are you a Democrat, So-
cialist, Communist, Facist, or do you believe in high
tariff and depression?” ; “What have been your activ-
ities in politics?” ; “Are you a member of a civic club?” ;
“What interest do you take in civic affairs and how
is your interest manifested?”’; and “What are your
special interests and hobbies outside of your business ?”

Each man was also requested to give a history of
himself not covered by the questions.

That some of the biographies are brief is due to
the brevity of the answers.

Robert P. Adams, Trenton, Tennessee, of Tay-
lor, Adams & Freeman, lawyers; has practiced law
since 1919; still enjoys single blessedness; is a Demo-
crat interested in local, county, and state politics; is a
member of the local chamber of commerce, and stock-
holder and director in several local manufacturing and
industrial enterprises; only diversion is quail hunting ;
was attorney for city of Trenton for seven years and
for Gibson County for six years; represents a number
of banks, mills, and insurance companies; does a gen-
eral state and Federal practice.

Miss Gladys Pierce of Buckhannon, West Virgi in

Se

  
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

MAGA Z =a.

John R. Brand, Hobbs, New Mexico, attorne
at law; was in the U. S. Army in war times; mz ris
in 1918 to Miss Ruth Walker of West Point, Mis,
sippi; has three girls, ages twelve, ten, and nine; S
Democrat; takes interest in hunting, fishing, and ¢
usual indoor amusements; until last summer practi
law at El Dorado, Arkansas; has determined never
leave New Mexico; owns home at Lovington; nea
W. & L. neighbor is Herman Crile at Roswell.

Harry V. Campbell, 1101 Kanawha Natic
Bank Building, Charleston, West Virginia, of B
Dayton & Campbell, lawyers; was private, First Cl
Air Service Aeronautics, U. S. A.; then a “poor, i
Government Clerk in the Department of Justice”; )
March, 1920, has been attorney at law and Notary P
lic with Seal; has general practice, is unmarried;
“Republicans to the right of me, Republicans to ~
left of me, Republicans in front of me, but still T
a Democrat”: works for his party but has no off
holder expectations; much interested in developm
of aviation in Charleston, and has done much in f
thering its progress by the passage of legislation anc
the organization of a local company for operat
an airport; is cuckoo about football ; can’t play golf z
can’t give it up; says Charleston is center for mé
W. & L. Alumni, and much interest is there displa:
for old W. & L.; Charleston has an enthusiastic alu
association. ;

Clarence W. Carter, Warrenton, Virginia,
yer and has been one ever since leaving W. & L.;
widower, having married Miss Evangeline W.
of Clifton Forge, Va., on January 3, 1925; she ¢
May 8, 1926, and his infant daughter died June
1926; says he is a “Democrat. ‘To hell with Hoovet
has been interested only in county politics with the ¢
tent of his office-holding being Commonwealth's 4
torney for Fauquier County; is a member of the
renton Chamber of Commerce.

Lafayette B. Chafin, Williamson, West Virg
ia, attorney at law; served in the U. S. Army, 45th!
fantry from July 1917 to September 1919; mz

November 1, 1918; has one child, Joan, aged five;
“a Democrat. I am against high traiff and Hoover é
all he stands for’; elected and served as Prose
Attorney of Mingo County from 1925 to 1929; defe
ed in Hoover landslide of 1928; still for Al Smith;
longs to Kiwanis Club, chamber of commerce, Cour

“

 

 

 

 

 

eee ee

ail .

 

HoME oF THE ’17 Law CLaAss

Club, and Presbyterian Church; hobby is fighting Re-
publicans ; goes each year to Charleston to see W. & L.
get beat by West Virginia; says a number of W. & L.
lawyers are out in his section of the country, all making
good.

George Nixon Danielson, 327 Federal Bldg.,
Duluth, Minn.; Divisional Director of Naturalization ;
he practiced law one year and then got in the U. S. Nat-
uralization Service; is still single but has hopes of
changing that status; being in civil service he can't
talk politics; is a member of the American Legion,
Y. M. C. A., and American Federation of Labor ; hob-
by is smoking White Owl cigars; from 1918 to end of

1927 was naturalization examiner, then promoted to

his present position ; has charge of 42 counties of Mich-
igan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin; in his work has trav-
eled 225,000 miles thru his territory, equal to nine times
around the globe ; has seen 16,000 aliens admitted to cit-
izenship and 1,400 denied; has acquired a personal
acquaintance with 100 different judges.

Burt L. Dickinson, Marion, Virginia, attorney
at law; employed in the office of the Auditor for War
Department, Paris, 1918-1919; in law practice at
Marion since 1919; Mayor of Marion, 1920-1928,
Judge of Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court of
Smyth County 1923 to date; married 1924 to Dr. Clara
R. King, of Radford, Virginia; one daughter, aged

[5]

six months, is Democrat with anarchistic leanings; at
present is secretary of the electoral board of Smyth
County.

Gabriel De La Haba, Tetual St. 3, San Juan,
Porto Rico, P. O. Box 1149, practices law and is also
secretary and general counsel for Banco Commercial
de Puerto Rico, the largest bank in the island; was in
the U. S. Army from 1918 to 1919; in general practice
since; married August 20th, 1924, to Theresa Melia of
Ponce, Porto Rico, and has three children; Gabriel de
la Haba, Jr., Theresa de la Haba, and Louis Edward
de la Haba; in national politics he feels very much a
Republican; locally he belongs to the Alianza party,
a coalition of two strong local political parties, and is
a member and treasurer of the local committee of the
party; is interested in mining and is president of the
Atlantic Ore Co., which is exploiting manganese prop-
erties in Juana Diaz, P. R.; has small farm mostly for
exercise purposes; is interested in breeding and racing
thoroughbred horses: was in partnership with Hon. J.
Texidor until his elevation to Justice of the Supreme
Court of Porto Rico.

Harold F. Dorgeval, 80 Park Place, Newark,
New Jersey; trial attorney for Public Service Corpora-
tion of N. J., and allied companies; was in the army
then a cotton and silk broker, then returned to law,
later becoming a member of a law firm, which he

= ke oi A. (boa oe ee 0

left November 1, 1927, to take up his present employ-
ment ; is not married ; an independent in politics ; favors
the wet side in prohibition; not active in politics as he
still has some principles; golfs, plays tennis, fishes,
swims, is fond of the theatre and his friends in whom
he is very fortunate.

David Archer Falk, 714 Franklin St., Tampa,
Florida; after praticing law six months he turned his
talents to department store merchandising; is still
single; belongs to the Democratic party and the Ex-
change Club; is a member of the Palm Ceia Golf Club,
Forest Hills Country Club, Tampa Yacht and Country
Club, Gasparilla Krewe, American Legion, is immedi-
ate past president of the Tampa Retail Merchants’ Asso-
ciation, is a Mason and an Elk; plays golf a little; may
not have made the usual progress but has had a good
time.

Fred M. Davis, 209 Main Street, Lynchburg,
Virginia, Davis, Childs & Company, fire and casualty
insurance, and surety bonds; in Navy June, 1917-June,
1919; Supply Officer, U. S. S. Gulfport; practiced law
in Lynchburg until end of 1925; on the death of his
father in 1925 went into the insurance business left by
his father; is unmarried and “getting more particular
and less desirable every day’; Secretary-treasurer of
Lions Club since organization in 1921; is secretary
Natural Bridge Appalachian Trail Club; Treasurer
Salvation Army Home Service Fund; Permanent Sec-
retary Law Class of 1917 and compiler of these biog-
raphies; Scoutmaster Troop One for ten vears; Ser-
vice Officer American Legion for three years, Treas-
urer Square and Compass; hobbies are hiking and mu-
sic (interested in violin and ’cello) ; is unbitten by the
golf bug.

George M. Gillespie, deceased. Mr. George B.
Gillespie writes regarding his son, George M. Gillespie,
as follows: “It grieves me to be compelled to inform
you that my son passed away more than five years ago.
(October 1925).” You have our sympathy, Mr.
Gillespie.

Claude R. Hill, Oak Hill, West Virginia; real
estate and manager of a building material and contract-
ing company ; is also interested in banking ; was Second
Lieutenant, Field Artillery, overseas eighteen months ;
married October 1921 to Miss Mildred K. Hoptonstall,
Fayetteville, West Virginia, and has three children:
Millicent, Carolyn, and Claude R., Jr.; is a Republican ;
Councilman, City of Oak Hill, two terms, City Clerk,
one term; Mayor, two terms; member of Board of
Education, and recently elected President of the Board ;
is a member of the Rotary Club; hobbies are golf and
politics; has had good business opportunities and the
results to date have been well satisfying.

[6]

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
   
   
  

MAGA ZI Na
Robert P. Hobson, 615-24 Inter Southern Bldg., «
Louisville, Kentucky, member of law firm of Wood-
ward, Hamilton & Hobson; married November 15, —
1917, to Catherine L, Cochran, The Plains, Virginia, —
and has two children, Robert C. Hobson, aged 12, and —
Catherine P. Hobson, aged 7; is a red hot Democrat;
hobbies are tennis, baseball, and going back to W. & L.
each year to the Virginia game; is district attorney for
the L. & S. Railroad Company ; has stuck closely to his _
work and has had few outside interests; hopes to see
his son in W. & L. uniform some day on the football —
field and that before long. 4

William Lee Joyce, Stuart, Virginia, attorney at_
law ; has had no other occupation since leaving W. & L,, |
excepting that he served in the United States Army
during the World War; his war days are over, for he is"
still single ; his adherence is to the Democratic principles -
of Jefferson; he was a member of the Virginia House
of Delegates during the Special Session of 1919 and the
regular Session of 1920; he is secretary of the Stuart
Chamber of Commerce; hunting and fishing are his 3
hobbies.

Robert R. Kane, Montclair, New Jersey; is with
the RCA Radiotron Company, Inc., of the Radio Cor-_
poration of America, at Harrison, New Jersey, being
general counsel for the company; he was formerly
counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, and later
for the Fleischmann Yeast Company; he married
March 15, 1919, to Miss Jessamine Lindsay, of Kan-
sas City, Kansas, and they have two girls and one boy,
Patricia, Kathleen and Robert K. Jr.; is a Democrat,
first, last, and all the time; is interested in farming, but
not in an extensive way; he has a Connecticut farm
near Stamford. 3

Tracy Lloyd, 1208 Colonial National Bank Build-
ing, Roanoke, Virginia; he practices law and. has had
no other occupation since leaving the law school; he
is still unmarried; in politics he is a member of the
Democratic party, but has not been active in politics;
his special hobby is basketball. |

l,. Dewoody Lyle, 402 National Building, Pine
Bluff, Arkansas; is a lawyer; he saw 14 months’ serv-_
ice in France and was a first lieutenant in the U. $.
Army; he married Miss Janie M. Bellingrath, Dee.
27, 1928; he is a Democrat and is a proponent of joe
T. Robinson, senator from Arkansas for President;
he was city attorney for Pine Bluff, Arkansas, for six
years and retired undefeated; this is an elective posi-
tion; he was elected three times with opposition every
time; and three opponents in each race; he is a member
of the Advisory Committee, of the Pine Bluff Public

(Continued on page 29)

tt. es ioe. Te

I

Ma G A. Z2 fa SS

Lee Influence Felt in Science School

 

et
Rat lied

a]

ey
Pag a a"

~~

CHEMISTRY BUILDING

s|NTO a South shattered by the Civil War, a
South crushed and still bleeding from that
terrible conflict, 66 years ago came Robert
No army pressed behind him.

 

E,. Lee.
as a soldier, to destroy, but as a builder, an educator,
to assume the presidency of Washington College, then
a tiny institution of 91 students.

He came not

As a soldier, his keen mind envisioned a great bat-
tle; not a battle of bullets and death, but a battle of
man against nature. He saw nature stubbornly resist

man’s efforts to adapt her to his needs. As a builder,

he saw that man might mend the crippled South only .

with nature’s help. He saw the South rebuilt only
when man had conquered nature. As an educator, he
saw that man’s best weapon, his only weapon in this

conflict, was education.

Conceived in this foresight, pre-natally nourished
by the untiring work of Lee, 47 years later was born
Washington and Lee University’s School of Applied
Science.

It is not only a school of science, it is a school of
applied science. An ab-
stract knowledge of science as science alone, he reason-

Therein lies Lee’s influence.

ed, was about as useful as a gun without ammunition.

It was the application of the ammunition that won the

bY

battles. Similarly, man might mould nature to his needs
only by the application of knowledge. Only by applica-
tion of science to industry might the South be rebuilt.

Lee was an engineer, trained at West Point. He
saw the South’s salvation in men trained as engineers,
and it was in this field that he devoted his first efforts,
in his first few years at Washington College. Later,
he instituted departments of chemistry, physics, jour-
nalism and commerce, but his first interest was engi-
neering.

The College catalogue for 1866, the first year
after Lee assumed the presidency, reveals that he lost
no time in beginning his work of specialized training.
His theory of application, of definitely specialized work
in engineering, is recorded in this catalogue, which
reads: “Young men who wish to become ‘professional
engineers,’ will be allowed to confine themselves to
such branches of study in the Schools af Applied
Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, Chemistry and Prac-
tical Chemistry, as are requisite to make them accom-
plished in their profession.” <A certificate was award-
ed for satisfactory work in these courses.

Thus Lee began his maneuvers in his great battle
for reorganization, his battle against nature to make
her lend herself toward rebuilding the South.

Dp tee E A toe sa 4

Lee was not the first to establish scientific courses
at Washington College. His work was, rather, to
make such courses practical, to teach application of
knowledge, to mend the South by applying science
to industry.

Engineering and other scientific courses were be-
ing taught at the institution when Lee was courting
“Dearest Mary.” The College catalogue for 1842 lists
several such courses. As early as this, even, the Col-
lege boasted a “School of Engineering,” including
courses in mathematics, chemistry, botany, mineralogy,
and geology. This “school,” as it was called, was not
a school in the sense we know it today. ‘The institu-
tion at this time considered any group of related
courses a “school,” such as “School of Latin,” the
“School of Greek.”

Sometime between 1842 and 1848, the ‘School
of Engineering” disappeared. Alli scientific courses
were listed under the common head of ‘Physical
Science.” Neither catalogues nor historical papers
mention the “school.”

At this time (1848) Washington College took a
step forward in the scientific field when a special agri-
cultural course in applied chemistry was introduced for
the first time. It was along this line that Lee exerted
his greatest influence, aside from his work in engineer-
ing. Immediately after the war, the South’s foremost
need was restoration to agricultural prosperity. In
order for this to take place, new and better highways
were a prime requisite. Thus it came about that Lee's
efforts were devoted largely, at first, to agricultural
and engineering courses.

The College catalogue for 1850 reveals another
early step toward application of abstract knowledge,
when it tells of the institution’s first laboratory. This,
according to the publication, was “a very respectable
Chemical and Philosophical Apparatus, which cost
about five thousand dollars, and is kept in good condi-
tion.” The “laboratory” was a cumbersome model
called a planetarium, the planetary system, including
the earth, and main heavenly bodies. It still exists,
though not in actual use.

In 1853 a “School of Physical Science” came to
life. Courses in agricultural chemistry, mineralogy,
geology, optics and astronomy were listed in the cata-
logue for that year, as requisite studies in the new
“school.” Four years later these courses had been
amended and enlarged, so “Physical Science’’ included,
in addition to those mentioned, classes in light, heat,
electricity, magnetism, and general chemistry. New
courses in animal and _ vegetable physiology were
added.

When Lee came to Washington College in 1855,
he found a classical college, educating its few students
in abstract art courses. Science courses were scatter-
ed haphazardly through the catalogue. [or ten years

[8]

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

MA GA Z#kdqdtI nN #e
preceding, they had been listed under different head-
ings, in different schools. Half-hearted attempts had ~
been made to introduce applied science courses, and to —
make scientific work more practical, but these failed —
because of poor organization. “Schools” of chemistry
and practical chemistry had sprung up, each year in —
a different section of the College. When he took —
charge, engineering courses were listed under the
“School of Applied Mathematics.” New courses in ~
analytical mechanics and metallurgy had appeared.

With this tangled maze of classical schools as a |
foundation, Lee began his work of reorganization. —
The catalogue for 1866 listed civil and mining engi- ~
neering courses as a separate group. Lee’s theory of —
specialization was evident in the paragraph quoted ;
above, referring to ‘‘professional engineers.”

As president, it was of course impossible for Lee
to take entire charge of engineering. In choosing a ~
man for the job, he selected Colonel William Anderson, ~
Chief Ordinance Officer of the Army of Northern —
Virginia. Colonel Anderson had been connected with —
the Virginia Military Institute, and was himself a cap- —
able engineer. Under his leadership the school got a_
firm foundation, and progressed rapidly along the lines —
Lee had planned. |

Two years after Colonel Anderson assumed his po-—
sition, Washington College offered a specialized course
in civil and mining engineering. Individual courses —
were definitely and systematically arranged for the
first time. There was no abstract grouping, no science
course in the pre-war classical schools. Required
classes for a three-year engineering study were outlined ’
chronologically. a

For the next twenty years this specialization was”
continued, except that certain courses in civil and min-—
ing engineering, and astronomy were listed in the)
School of Applied Mathematics. Major courses were”
grouped together, however, and more and more in-
struction leaned toward applied rather than abstract
study.

Back in 1842 the College catalogue had mentioned
a “School of Engineering,” the only early record of:
such instruction. Just 47 years later, in 1889, a real
school of engineering was first listed as a regular de-
partment of the University. In sharp contrast to the
few abstract courses in the “school” of 1842, the new
school was complete in itself, applied courses bei
taught by six professors, under the leadership of Po
fessor David Carlisle Humphreys. |

Professor Humphreys put his heart into that
school of engineering, and left it there when he died.
A bulletin published by the University shortly after
his death reads: ‘David Carlisle Humphreys has pass
ed to his reward. In his death the University has suffer-
ed an irreparable loss. He was an able engineer, a loyal
friend, an able and faithful teacher, and a consecrated

¢

ee Rew) im -IN

Christian gentleman of the most lovable type. For
35 years he had served his Alma Mater as a professor
and dean, universally honored and beloved by the alum-
ni and friends of the institution. His life was one of
high-minded devotion and the monument which he
unconsciously erected will be more enduring than brass.”
Professor Humphreys took the School of Engin-
eering through its infanthood, brought it to manhood.
Through his efforts enrollment increased and new
courses were added. The “very respectable Chemical
and Philosophical Apparatus’? was augmented and in-
creased, new equipment was added. Through Pro-
fessor Humphreys’ efforts, in 1904 was erected Reid
Hall, the greatest single step in advancement of Applied
Science at Washington and Lee during the 20th
century. Finally, in 1912, Lee’s School of Engineer-
ing was abolished when the Washington and Lee
School of Applied Science was founded. All engi-
neering courses were at this time included in the new
school, which was headed by Professor Humphreys.
The school prospered undcr Professor Humph-
reys. New courses were added, and applied science at
Washington and Lee became firmly established as one
of the outstanding departments of the University.
Records of the school show that in 1912, when it
was founded, 65 students were enrolled in its courses.
Not all of this number, however, intended to become
engineers, for nearly half were enrolled in only one or
two engineering courses. For the next seven years
the number of students specializing in engineering never
exceeded 40 for any one year. In 1920, however, the
number jumped to 49, and since that time has never
dropped below 40, the average being about 46 a year.
The total number of students enrolled in the school
last year, including special students not majoring in
engineering, was 135.
Today the department is recognized by the Amer-

I

ew eG A ek Bee

ican Society of Civil Engineers as a school of approved
standing. Its list of successful alumni totals only
slightly less than its list of men graduated from the
school. Nationally and internationally known. struc-
tures planned by Washington and Lee engineering
graduates may be accredited, in some sense, to the fore-
sight of the great General who saw the necessity of
applying science to industry.

Washington and Lee’s present School of Applied
Science today is probably far greater than Lee ever
dreamed. It offers the degree of Bachelor of Science,
Master of Science, and Civil Engineer. Students may
specialize in civil engineering, electrical engineering, or
chemistry.

The school has not by any means reached its peak,
Under the direction of James Lewis Howe,
dean, who is assisted by twelve professors and nine
instructors, it progresses with constant improvements

however.

in courses and equipment.

Recent legislation by the faculty provides for cer-
tain changes in the school. An effort is now being
made to give elements common to all forms of engi-
neering, in the first three years of study, allowing stu-
dents to specialize in the fourth year.

The most important change, approved March
1931, provides for a degree which might be called a
“general” Bachelor of Science. Under the new plan,
students may major in any two different sciences, and
at the same time pursue other scientific courses, thus
getting a B. S. which corresponds somewhat to the A. B.
in the Arts college. Courses offered in obtaining the

-
-,

new degree include chemistry, physics, geology, biology,
and engineering.

Thus has Lee’s tiny school of engineering become
a major department of the University. Thus his fore-
sight paved the way for applied science at Washington

and Lee.

 

nity.

 

fessor of Economics.

 

Bibb, ’24, Now On Faculty

Earl Wallace Bibb was graduated from the School of Commerce
with high honors in 1924.
University several scholarships and numerous other honors.

Pi Kappa Phi claims him as a member.
his stay in college to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi
Seta Kappa as well as to Alpha Kappa Psi, honorary Commerce frater-

Fie was on the track team in 1924.

The scholarships he held were the German Scholarship in 1922; the
Vincent L. Bradford Scholarship in 1923; and the James McDowell
Scholarship in 1924.

He was president of the Senior Commerce class and of Alpha Kap-
pa Psi in his Senior year.

He returned to his Alma Mater in 1930 to become assistant pro-
Mr. Bibb came originally from Montana.

He garnered in his progress through the

He was elected during

 

 

Le]

ee

HE first analytical study of Washington and
Lee University’s coat-of-arms has just been
completed. Mrs. D. H. Saunders, of Pine
Bluff, Ark., long a student of heraldry, conducted the
research and submitted the reading to the University.

The coat-of-arms has never been officially adopted
by the University, although it has been used in the
catalogue since 1902. Dr. William George Brown, pro-
fessor of Chemistry in 1901, created the shield by quar-
tering the Lee and Washington family arms. He used
the Lee motto, of the Coton Hall branch—‘Non incau-
tus futuri’—(Not unmindful of the future), and the
Washington crest—the figure of a bird.

In her report, Mrs. Saunders quoted from Sego-
ing, using old French, which is reprinted below. Her
report follows:

On the first quarter of the
shield appears the Latin motto,
“Omnia autem probate,” which may
be translated, “Everything, but
proved.”

Heraldry is rather a fanciful,
fantastic science; and the meaning
of the metals and colors are ren-
dered according to a quaint old
French book, published in Paris in
1652; the author is C. Segoing.

“C. Segoing—Mercure armo-
rial enseignment Les Principes et
elemens du Blazon des armoiries,
selon l’ordre et les termes qui se
practiquent en cette Science.”

P.17 and 18 ‘Les Metaux et couleurs qui se voyent
aux armoiries ont une signification et dentation par-
ticuliere, que je mets icy pour contenter les curieux.”

Ist quarter: (one with the book): Learning and
force.

2nd quarter: (Washington) Sincerity, constancy,
and deathless courage.

3rd quarter: (Lee) Sagacity, forethought, and
justice, loyalty and good reputation.

4th quarter (one with rose) Faith and wealth.

Never lose sight of the military origin of her-
aldry. The very names “armory” and “escutcheon”
and “coat-of-arms” should serve as a perpetual re-
minder.

“Armory” of course, indicates the connection of
heraldry with arms or weapons of war, “escutcheon”’
and “coat-of-arms” are terms which arose from the
fact that heraldic devices were stamped or painted
upon the shields or “escusson’” and embroidered upon
the “cotte d’armes,” a textile garment worn over the

 

9

W. and L. Coat-of-Arms Is Analyzed |
T

 

[ 10 ]

 
  
    
 
   
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  

MA GAZI Nam

armor, in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. The
term escutcheon is from old French, escut, shield. ;

The official Records of Courts-of-Arms are kept
in written form, not in form of design, as is common-
ly supposed. The language is a sort of lingua-franca,
moreover, many of the words are so abbreviated as
to be quite unintelligible to the lay mind. 3

These records describe three things: |

(1) the color of the shield and its parts, if part
ed; 7%

(2) the name, number and colors of the devices
on the shield, called charges; i

(3) the crest and its color. 3

There are the three essential features. The motto,
if there be one, is recorded, but mottoes are alterable at:
the will of the bearer, a fact not
generally known. j

From the above it will be seen
that the records do not specify the
shape of the shield; hence it may
be of any shape. That is entirely
matter of taste.

There are two non-essential
features of a complete escutcheon
called “accessories,’ namely the
helmet and the mantle (also called
mantlings, or lambrequin). Though
not strictly necessary, these add
greatly to the dignity and beauty of
a painting. The origin of the man-
tle was the lined cloak worn by
knights to keep off the weather; it
hung. from the helmet. It is the mantle which permi
the beauty and grace of the coat-of-arms to be brought
out, and it should be of the prevailing color and mete
of the shield.

The true star of heraldry (estoile) has six wavy
points. Mullets, or stars of five points, signify shinin J
virtue; some authorities say the mullet is a knight's
spur, but unfortunately it was used before the inven-
tion of spur-rowels, and so is of uncertain origin. The
mullet is also used as a mark of distinction for c@
dency (descent or related families or younger son);
the label is for the eldest son, the crescent for the sec-
ond son, and the mullet for the third son. ‘

The border (the ermine on the fourth quarter)
is an augmentation of honor. |

The billet (ILee arms) is a small parallelogram
ually borne in numbers, and set up on end; where the 7
are several, the armorial is described as “biiletty” (bik
lettee). The billet is one of a numbe~ of “sub-ordi -
ate ordinaires”, as they are called. Whe fesse is a broac

7 eae aA wer MN

I

— eG A 24 ft aes

 

horizontal band crossing the shield in the center; some
say it symbolizes the knight’s Belt. The ordinances
probably originated in the cross pieces placed upon a
shield for strengthening purposes. These cross-pieces
afforded a ready means of decorating in colors. A good
deal of other decoration naturally followed  sisnilar
forms, even in the case of shields which liad no cross
pieces.

The chief (Washington arms) is the head or up-
per part of the shield, cut off horizontally by a partition-
line, and containing properly a third part of the dimen-
sions of the shield. The Bar is a narrow horizontal
band placed in any part of the shield except in fesse,
or in chief. It is one-fifth or less, of the field and
rarely occurs singly.

The crowning glory of a badge, which belongs only
to the most ancient English families, is regarded as
separate and distinct from the achievement.

The supporters seldom appear upon the arms of
commoners, being usually reserved for royalty and the
higher nobility; they are the gift of the crown, and
have been conferred on commoners that the crown
wished to honor.

In connection with the rose, on the fourth quarter,
the following may be of interest :—

Edward I had as a badge, a rose, stalk green and
petals gold.

Henry IV introduced the red rose of Lancaster,
which became ever after the badge of the Lancastrians,
as opposed to the white rose of York.

“The white rose, en soleil’? denotes the 4th Ed-
ward. |

In the marriage procession of Henry Tudor and
Elizabeth of York, white and red roses were used, in-
tertwined, and at the birth of Prince Henry, the ar-
morists composed a rose of two colors, red and white,
the leaves alternating.

The crest is the highest part of the ornamentation
of a coat of arms. In England it is usually set upon
a torse or wreath of two strands of twisted silk of the
livery colors, i.e., the first metal, and first star of the
shield, but occasionally it issues from a ducal coronet
or is placed upon a cap, known as a chapeau or cap of

maintenance. In the case of the Washington arms, /

it is a raven, issuing from a ducal coronet.

In actual warfare, the crest was a figure carved
in wood, or made of leather boiled and pressed into a
mould. Usually it took the form of some animal, real
or fictitious, set upon a wreath, coronet, or chapeau,
and placed above the helmet.

Originally as a special mark of honor for distin-
guished service in the field, the crest in heraldic usage
ended by becoming an inseparable adjunct to a lay
coat-of arms.

None of the above is original—the sources are:

(1) Mercure armorial Enseignment Les Princi-

pes and Elemens du Blogon des Armoixes, by C. Se-
going, a Paris, 1652.

(2) Sir Bernard Burke’s history of heraldry, glos-
sary of armory and dictionary of terms used in her-
aldry, as given in his General Armory of England,
Scotland, Ireland and Wales.

(3) An Elementary Manuel of Heraldry, etc., pub-
lished in New York by Gorham Company, Silversmiths
and Goldsmiths, MC MV.

(4) “Heraldry,” by George Todd, Artist and
Specialist in Heraldry.

 

PLANS MADE FOR STADIUM

If the present plans for the enlarged stadium on
Wilson Field go through, alumni returning next fall
to the homecoming game with Virginia will find a stand
seating 6,000 awaiting them.

The present stadium, which seats about 2500, has
been inadequate since its erection in 1923. When a big
game is played at Iexington temporary stands have to
be erected on the opposite side and ends of the field.

The proposed enlargement of the permanent stand
will take care of the entire crowd for the larger games.
It will be of the same construction as the present sta-
dium, steel and brick.

Plans for the enlargement have been completed
by the Roanoke Bridge and Iron Company, and as
soon as the estimate of the cost is received by the
Washington and Lee authorities some definite action
will be taken.

Training rooms are planned underneath the sta-
dium, and will, temporarily at least, take the place of
a field house.

The athletic department is also planning to beau-
tify Wilson Field by planting honeysuckle on the west
bank. This, with the proposed enlarged stadium, will
make an attractive setting for the Generals’ conflicts
next season.

 

DEFERRED RUSHING.

Deferred rushing at Washington and Lee will have
to wait another year at least. For the second and final
time this year, the Interfraternity Council brought the
proposed rules up before representatives of the twenty
social fraternities on the campus. They were voted
down, six clubs expressing their disapproval. A three-.
fourths majority was necessary for the passage of the
plan.

The rules were carefully compiled by a committee
composed of Joe McVay, Mosby Perrow and Horace
Gooch, chairman. Letters were sent out early in the
year to fifty colleges and universities throughout the
country asking them for their rules in regard to rush-
ing and pledging freshmen. The committee’s proposed
plan was selected from the best of these.

[ ll ]

tome 2 A. Lid we oe

MATTHEW W. PAXTON, ’78.

Son of a gallant officer of the Confederacy, Gen-
eral Frank Paxton, and great-grandson of two Revo-
lutionary soldiers, Captain William Paxton and Alex-
ander McNutt, Matthew W. Paxton
legislator, government official and journalist in his

has served as

native county. His Paxton ancestors came to Rock-
bridge county in 1747 from Pennsylvania and English,
Scotch and Welsh blood mingle in his veins.

His father was graduated with distinction from
Washington College and at Yale University and pre-
pared for the legal profession at the University of
Virginia. Upon the outbreak of the Civil War he en-

 

Matruew W. PAx’ton

tered the Confederate service as lieutenant of Volun-
teers and in seventeen months rose to the rank of brig-
adier-general. He was shot dead while leading the
Stonewall Brigade into action at Chancellorsville.
Matthew White Paxton was born in Lexington,
Va., May 26, 1857. He was educated at Washington
and Lee University, Class of 1878, and by reason of
- failing’ eyesight first engaged in farming. He was
elected to the Virginia Legislature in 1883, nominated
by that wing of the Democratic party known as the
“Funders,” a split caused over the adjustment of the
public debt in Virginia. He resigned his seat in the
house to accept the appointment of deputy United
States internal revenue collector for Western Vir-
ginia. That office he held until 1889, then resigned to
become editor of the Rockbridge County News. Since

[ 12

I

MAGQGaA2Z24#tl 7
that time he has devoted himself to his newspaper
which he has placed in the front rank of live, progress-
ive Virginia journals. |

As an editor he has in a fearless and outspoken

manner stood for the right as he saw it and has de-

voted an active career to the best interests of his town,

county and state. At seventy-four years his vigour is
largely unabated.

He was chairman of the Democratic county com-
mittee of Rockbridge county in the stirring campaigns
of 1884 and 1889 and a delegate to the Democratie
National Convention at Chicago in 1892.

He has been active in Camp Frank Paxton, Sons
of Confederates, of which he served as first command-
ant. He is a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fra-
ternity and a charter member of the Washington and
Lee chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. While at college he
won the Cincinnati orator’s medal, a distinction of
much moment in that day.

Mr. Paxton married November 29, 1893, Mary
Louisa Hopkins, of Lexington. Of their three sons,
two died in infancy and one survives, Matthew W.
Paxton, Jr., of Lexington, Va.

 

WARREN W. NEWSUM, ’11.

Warren W. Newsum, B.A. and M.A., of Wash-
ington and Lee, died at his home in Memphis, Tenn.,
after an illness of three years. Funeral services were
conducted by Rev. T. K. Young.

Warren Newsum was born in Tuscumbia, Ala.,
October 20, 1888. He went to Memphis with his
father when a small boy, was educated in the city
schools and when graduated in 1908, he won a schol-
arship in Washington and Lee. He completed the Uni-
versity course in three years, winning the History
Scholarship in 1910 and the Mapleson Scholarship im
1011. He taught freshman German at Washington and

Lee and then won a fellowship to the University of

Wisconsin where he spent a year teaching and studying.

Mr. Newsum returned to Memphis and with his
father and his uncle, founded the Newsum-Warren
Laundry.

In 1916 he married Miss Estelle Bond an
have one daughter, Estelle, aged four.

He was an elder in the Idlewild Presbyteria
Church and for many years directed the Christian En
deavor work in the church. He also taught a Sunda |
School class. He also formerly belonged to the Mem-
phis Country Club, the University Club and the Cham-
ber of Commerce.

  
  

 

Grier R. Smiley, A.B., B.S., 02, has been promot-
ed from chief engineer of construction to assistant chief
engineer of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. Mr.
Smiley’s office remains in Louisville.

]

 

 

 

1. ooo Ae AS Oe. IN

I

owe... G- Awe eee ae

Business Leaders Meet at W. and L.

 

@|\CONOMIC experts representing leading east-
> Jern business organizations gathered here April
71|23 and 24 as delegates to Washington and
“Confenma on Business Affairs, for a two-day
meeting with lectures and discussion of business prob-

 

 

 

 

Per

It began at 11:30 Thurs-
day morning, the twenty-third, when Edward A. Fi-
lene, president of Wm. Filene’s Sons Company, Bos-
ton, addressed a student-body assembly. The first
official session opened that afternoon, with lectures and

istration here will sponsor.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

x THOS
B.NICADAMS

 

OscaR WELLS

 

 

 

lems of today.

Robert H.

merce.
Three financial and business editors,

The Conference was directed by Dean
Tucker, of the W. and L. School of Com-

two profes-
sors of economics, two bank executives, a department
store head, a manufacturing director, an industrial at-
torney, and the president of one of the largest chain
store companies in the world contributed to the program,
In addition to the ten
Dr.
Tucker chose outstanding business and_ professional

which was held in four sessions.

nationally and internationally known speakers,
leaders from Virginia to lead open forum discussions
following the main addresses.

The conference was the first of a series of annual

meetings which the School of Commerce and Admin-

WILFREO
KING

 

 

 

 

 

discussion concerning banking problems. Thursday
night, the chain store as a factor in retail distribution
formed the central theme. Business depression was
the topic for the third and fourth sessions, Friday after-
noon and night, respectively.

Two lectures and an open forum featured the init-
ial session, devoted to banking problems. - Addresses
by Oscar Wells, chairman of the board, First National
Bank, Birmingham; and Thomas B. McAdams, execu-
tive manager, State-Planters Bank and Trust Company,
Richmond, featured the meeting. Open discussion,
conducted by James R. Gilliam, secretary-treasurer of
the Lynchburg Trust and Savings Bank, Lynchburg,
Va., John L. Campbell, trust officer, Rockbridge Na-
tional Bank, Lexington, Va.; and L. W. H. Peyton,

WILLIAM NELGON TAFT

[ 13 ]

2 ee

president, Farmers and Merchants Bank, Staunton,
Va., concluded the open session.

Mr. Wells pointed out the advantage of unit bank-
ing over multiple banking.

“Multiple banking is a term which has come to
mean group, branch and chain banking as differentiated
from unit banking. My own feeling is that as a sys-
tem unit banking is likely to be more dependable
through all the years of the future, both for the banker
and his customer. If the choice were left to me, as to
whether we should have, in this country, multiple
banking to the exclusion of unit banking or unit bank-
ing to the exclusion of muliple banking, I should choose
the unit.”

Outlining what he believed to be the causes of
many bank failures throughout the country recently,
Mr. McAdams suggested methods for protection of
bank deposits, and decrease of failures.

Mr. McAdams outlined five possible remedies:
retention of present dual system of national and state
banks, with the best of each of these systems embodied
in all of them; responsible management under govern-
mental supervision, divorced as far as possible from
politics ; develoment of branch banking along conserva-
tive lines, thus meeting the need of smaller communi-
ties; accumulation of reserve for the protection of de-
positors; and improving management through educa-
tion of bank employees.

In the open forum following the addresses, ques-
tions of multiple banking, merging, and protection of
deposits were discussed.

The second session, Thursday night, wis occupied
with three lectures and a discussion of the chain store
as a factor in retail distribution.

Addresses were given by Albert H. Morrill, presi-
dent of the Kroger Grocery and Baking Company, Cin-
cinnati; William Nelson Taft, editor of the Retail
Ledger, Philadelphia; and Edward A. Filene, president
of Wm. Filene’s Sons Company, Boston. Open forum
was conducted by Roger Winbourne, Carolina Stores,
Inc., Lenoir, N. C.; and W. P. Irwin, president of Ir-
win & Co., Lexington, Va. Major LeRoy Hodges,
managing director, State Chamber of Commerce, Rich-
mond, presided over the meeting .

Discussion and addresses on the benefits of the
national chain store as compared to the local chain store
and independent merchants featured the session.

Mr. Morrill, who is president of the National
Chain Store Association and chairman of the board of
the Piggly Wiggly Corporation, outlined the advantages
of the national chain. He cited development of the chain
store from its introduction, and pointed out economic
saving resulting form chain store method of distribution.

Speaking in favor of the local chain systems and
independent stores, Mr. Taft said these stores exert

A Ls A eee dk

ee ee es ee

a far greater sales power than do widely advertised na-
tional chains of the Sears-Penny-Kroger-Woolworth —

type.
“These ‘unchained chains’ (local chain systems)

have coupled the lessons learned from the chain stores’

management with unquestionable advantage of the in- —

dependent store, and the combination is one which bids
fair to be the sensation of the current retail decade,” he
said.

The truth of the matter is that the independent and ‘un-

chained chains’ are doing a better job by odds of six to —

99

one.

Both advantages and disadvantages of chain stores —
Advantages he listed —

were pointed out by Mr. Filene.
as large buying power, scientific warehousing, standardi-

“There is no indication that national chains ap- —
proach anything like monopoly of the country’s business. —

zation of merchandise, magnitude of operation, and —
price-appeal. As disadvantages, he pointed out absence —

of adaption to local conditions.
of personal contact between owner and customer, and
the fact that the local manager is derived of the power to
use his initiative or creative thinking.

The open forum brought out the fact that the national
chain system do not control nearly so much business as
is generally supposed. At the present time, there are

more than four thousand chains with some twenty —
thousand units extending throughout the country in —
nearly every line of retail merchandizing. National —
chain systems, it was revealed, do an average of less than

20 per cent of total business in large and small com-
munities.

Speakers at the third session, held Friday morning
to discuss business depression, were:

This would include loss —

Edgar J. Rich, —

general counsel for the Associated Industries of Mas- —

sachusetts; R. K. Brodie, director of manufacture and

technical research, Proctor and Gamble, Cincinnati; and —
Dr. Willford I. King, professor of economics, New —

York University. Dean Glover D. Hancock of the —
Washington and Lee School of Commerce, presided,
and discussions were led by H. B. McCormac, presi- —
dent of the Virginia Woolen Company, Winchester; —
and J. Scott Parrish, Richmond Foundry and Maunfac- —

turing Company.

Profit sharing and the guaranteed 48-week year for :

employes of Proctor and Gamble formed the basis of —

Mr. Brodie’s speech. He outlined his company’s plan, —
Any |

inaugurated after a careful study of production.

person who has been in the employment of the com- —

him want us.”

(Continued on page 28)

[ 14 ]

+

pany for six months is made a profit-sharer and is —
guaranteed forty-eight weeks of work in a calendar year. _

‘We have two reasons for this,” Mr. Brodie said. —

a
Pl

“Tf a person has been with us six months we know he ~
is the type we want, and the profit sharing basis makes

a

‘ s
4

 

oe oe IN

we. G A 2 Pee

Princeton Again on Gridiron Card

 

mmm} ASHINGTON AND LEE will play Princeton

F!in football next November. Announcement

 

 

 

was made recently by R. A. Smith, direc-

 

tor of athletics here, that the Generals will journey to
the New Jersey school on November 14.

Washington and Lee has not met Princeton in
football since 1928, when the Tigers won a 25-12 vic-
tory over the team coached by “Pat” Herron. — Pre-
vious to this there had been an annual meeting between
the two schools for several years.

With the new game scheduled, Washington and
Lee has a card of ten games, coming on successive
Saturdays beginning with September 26, when Hamp-
den-Sydney is met at Lynchburg, and ending on the
Saturday following Thanksgiving when the Generals
entertain Duke in the second game of a home-and-
home agreement begun last season.

In commenting on the newly-scheduled game, Mr.

Smith was high in his praise of Director Byrd of
Maryland, who changed the date of this game with the
Generals so the Princeton date could be met.
Washington and Lee’s new-old coach, James De-
Hart, coached the Generals in 1925 when they played
Princeton. On his team at that time was “Tex” Til-
son, now assistant coach at his Alma Mater.
Following is the complete 1931 schedule:
September 26—Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg.
October 10—Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.
October 17—West Virginia, at Charleston, W.

October 24—Virginia, at [Lexington.

October 31—William and Mary at Norfolk, Va.
November 7—V. P. I., Blacksburg, Va.
November 14—Princeton, at Princeton, N. J.
November 21—Maryland, College Park, Md.
November 28—Duke, Lexington.

 

Meet the Bemis Brothers

Thomas McRae Bemis was graduated in the School of Commerce in 1923. His was a well known
figure on the Campus during his stay, and it was said of him that he was a “landmark.”

Sigma and Pan.

 

followed. ‘The latter was on the football team in ’22 and ’23. He was
an All-Southern guard in his Senior year.

His talents, however, were not exclusively athletic, as it was re-
corded of him that he was a scholar of no mean ability. The other
salient fact of his character was his good nature.

He was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma, social fraternity, and of

He was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He be-
longed to Alpha Kappa Psi, commerce fraternity, to Sigma, to the White
Friars, and to the Cotillion Club.

His athletic prowess was considerable. He was distinguished on
the football field in 1920, ’21, ’22, and ’23. In 1921 he was very much
the hero of one game with V. P. I. His accurate drop-kick broke the
tie and won the aforesaid game, much to the hysterical delight of his
compatriots. Since his graduation
he has been in business.

Douglas Knox Bemis, a gradu-
ate of the class of ’23 in the School
of Commerce, had the unenviable
task of following an older brother
in school. He and his brother were
graduated together in the same
year.

“Tom” Bemis blazed a trail in
athletics which his “kid brother”

 

 

 

 

[ 15 ]

eee a ee, ee

Baseball 1n 1931

#|1D SEASON pitching by Jack Jarrett and
fF} | Leigh Willams, Blue and White hurlers, en-
Y=> abled the Generals to open the season with an
8-0 victory over Georgetown. The team played error-
less ball and batted out nine hits to their opponents
two. Cremin, sophomore third baseman, took batting
honors with three hits.

Effective hurling by “Lefty” Methvin helped the
Generals to coast into a 12-0 victory over Bridge-
water in the second game of the season. Ten strike-
outs were credited to the southpaw for the game. Rou-
ton, shortstop stole the show, however, with a home-
run, double, and two singles out of five times at bat.

 

    

 

 

    

me

 

Playing the opening game on the Tri State League
schedule, the Generals after putting up a strong bat-
tle went down in defeat before Maryland, 3-1. Rou-
ton’s single, a stolen base, followed by E. Richard-
son’s hit scored a run in the first, but here the rally
ended with Milburn, old line pitcher, holding the team
scoreless the remainder of the game. It was the first
time this season that the team had been scored on.

A most auspicious start was made on the southern
invasion when the Tar Heels of the University of North
Carolina were defeated 8-2. The game, a Tri-State
contest, was turned over to Leigh Williams who pro-
ceeded to turn in a beautiful four hit victory.  Fitz-
gerald, Cremin, and J. Richardson each came through
with two hits, one of Cremin’s being a screaming homer
to left-field.

Four runs in the first and two in the second helped
the Generals to a 6-1 victory over North Carolina
State at Raleigh. Over 1800 fans were present until
the game was washed out in the sixth by a cloud burst.
Mattox and Fitzgerald topped the batters while Rou-
ton’s handling of eight hard chances at shortstop fea-
tured the defensive work.

Games scheduled with William and Mary at Nor-
folk and Williamsburg were abandoned when three
days of steady rain made the playing field into quag-
mires.

An eighth inning rally which netted six runs put
the Generals on top of Virginia 9-2 at Charlottesville.
At the time of the rally the Cavaliers were leading 2-1
but six successive hits intermingled with a couple of
walks put across the winning runs. Williams besides
holding the Wahoos to five hits smashed a long homer
to left in the third.

With the lead in the Tri-State League at stake the
Generals bobbed up with a series of errors which de-
spite 12 hits enabled North Carolina University to win
8-7. Enjoying a 6-2 lead in the fifth the team suddenly

I

MAG A 2 !- a
collapsed, the Tar Heels running wild to score six runs.
Cremin, leit fielder and Cross, second baseman, were
both held on the bench with twisted legs caused by
sliding.

Ten innings of hard fought baseball were needed
before the Generals could chalk up a win over the
William and Mary “Indians” by the score of 6-5.
This marked the first loss for the Tribesmen and the
sixth win in eight games for the Generals. Two runs
were scored in the first when Routon, on base by vir-
tue of an error, was brought home by Mattox’s long
homer to center. With the score tied at five all, Routon
opened the last half of the tenth with a single. When
the fielder allowed the ball to go through his legs Rou-
ton went to third from where he was scored when
Mattox came through with a perfect squeeze bunt.

Three runs trickled across the plate in the ninth
inning when the Generals’ infield blew up and V. P. I.
walked off the field with the game 7-6. Methvin start-
ed on the mound, but was relieved by Jarrett in the
third after three runs had been scored. Leigh Williams
and “Big Island” Routon were the hitting stars, each
coming through with two hits. The game was both a
Tri-State League and State contest.

Injuries played havoc with the team and helped
Maryland to take a free hitting game by the score of
10-6 at College Park. Before the game, Burke, third
baseman, was struck in the eye with a batted ball and
seriously injured, while E. Richardson, Cross, and
Cremin were already on the bench with leg injuries.
Leigh Williams took over the pitching duties, but was
hit hard from the start. Wilson and Williams got three
and two hits respectively out of the ten garnered by
the entire Blue and White team. It was the fourth loss
in the Tri-State League.

Five runs in the seventh inning by Navy allowed
them to tie the score at six-all, but a ninth inning rally
which produced three runs put the game on ice for the
Generals and gave the Big Blue a 9-7 victory. Until
the seventh Navy was helpless before the shoots of
Jarrett, when four hits coupled with two out-field er-
rors put the Tars back in the ball game. Stapleton in
center for E. Richardson, crashed through with three
safeties to tie Jarrett for hitting honors. With the
tieing runs on base in the last inning, Jarrett fanned
the Navy batter to end the game.

A batting spree staged by Elon College in the
twelth inning netted them three runs and the ball game
9-6. Methvin for the Generals was hit hard, but pitch-
ed the entire game. Mattox got a home-run for the
only extra base blow credited to the Blue and White.

 

E. Clyde Hoge, ’08, recently visited the University
and dropped into the Alumni Building. He is now a
member of the firm Lathrop-Hoge Gypsum Construc-
tion Co., with offices at 801 Neave Building, Cincinnati,

[ 16 ]

? .
Dl Ra att Beh ohh Me nd edie A a eee S

a ee ee ee

a taid pa

hs Os

 

2 ia oe eee i il ad oP

1. Ue A. 2 |. N

I

Poe. GCG AM 2. ee oe

Fans Look for Much Under DeHart

g|I’TH the return of “Jimmy DeHart as head
WW football coach, and Princeton University as a
major gridiron opponent, the alumni and
friends of Washington and Lee are hoping that the
Fighting Generals will come into prominence again in
the football world.

One who knows football history will ask, “isn't
it time for the Generals to once again be one of the
mighty teams of the South and one of the strongest in
the country ?”’

One year the Blue and White pigskin stars were
invincible. ‘That was in 1914 when the team won nine
battles and dropped none. The Lexington machine
rang up 313 points to their opponents 14. Morris-
Harvey furnished the Minks with a 103-0 scoring
spree, while Swarthmore, the only Northern opponent
of the saeson bowed 7-0.

In 1915 came the biggest football year W. and L.
has ever known. Scorning exclusive neighborhood
competition the moleskinners added Cornell and In-
diana to the lineup, and tied the Hoosiers 7-7, but lost
to the Ithaca crew 40-21. The Cornell game was one
of the greatest a W. and L,. team has played. ‘The
New Yorkers had practically cinched the national
championship. But at the half of the game, the south-
erners were ahead 21-20. Barrett furnished the big-
gest thrill when he ran thru the entire Cornell team
for a touchdown. Besides these games the Generals
picked up seven southern games and became South At-
lantic champions.

Back in 1913, the team won eight and lost one,
duplicating the record of 1912. In 13 the Lexington
lads scored 200 points to their adversaries 9. And
until the last game of the season with North Carolina
A. and M. were undefeated and had only three points
put over against them.

In the four years mentioned, 712, ’13, ’14, 715, the
Generals were at their peak, winning in all thirty-two
games, and relinquishing only three.
thing about Notre Dame?
for them to try ringing up.

The period from 1910-1920 shows that the Blue
and White won 59 games, lost only 14, and tied 7. In
contrast the 1921-30 periods shows 43 wins, 41 losses
and 8 ties.

For the entire record since football became estab-
lished at W. and L., the Generals have a lopsided tally
of 130 wins, 74 losses and 18 ties. Until 1927 the team
had never fallen below the .500 mark.

In the 1895 Calyx one finds the first mention of
football. The game was first heard of in ’72, when

 

Who said any-
This is a continuous record

fifty men played on a side. Later the number of players
was reduced to around thirty-five. In ’89 Rugby foot-
ball replaced the Association system. Nearly all the
games were brawls with V. M. I.

Results of the Washington and Lee schedule were
first printed in the Calyx in 96. W. and L. won three
out of seven games, including one with Miller’s school.
Possibly that school went the way of Atlantis, or
Trinity. One never sees its scores in the papers now.
Look at our 97 schedule. Columbian, Alleghany,
Central University, Kentucky and West Virginia.

Nothing of note happened until 1906 when the
Generals battled the cadets of Augusta Military Aca-
demy and whipped the “bullies” from the prep school
10-0.

In ’07, the Blue and White gridders dropped a game
to one of their northern opponents, Bucknell. Then
in ‘O8, a game with Virginia A. and M. was called off
becouse of snow. The team grew stronger until the
remarkable row of victories hung up from 12 thru ’15.

With the coming of the 1916 season the Generals
faced the hardest schedule a W. and L. Big Blue team
had ever attempted. The gridmen won from Bucknell
57-7: Navy 10-0; and lost to West Point 13-7, and
Washington and Jefferson, 10-6. As far as a decision
was concerned the Rutgers and Georgia Tech games
were a draw. ‘The scores were 13-13, 7-7.

The World War rather disturbed the Washington
and Lee football situation as well as a score of minor
countries in Europe. Because of the fracas and the
S. A. T. C., Students’ Army Training Camp, at the
school, the question of whether the school could put
out a team to compete favorably with its rivals was a
discussed one. Finally a team representing the Wash-
ington and Lee Students Army Training Corps took
the field. And little else! Out of four games the
pseudo-soldiers won one.

With the famous “Bill” Raftery coaching the team
in 1919 it won the Southern championship. The high
spots of the season were 3-0 victories over the V. P. I.
Gobblers and the Tech Golden Tornado. Both vic-
tories were on scores made in the last half of the last
quarter. The humor of the season was furnished by
the 78-0 verdict over the Norfolk Naval Base. When
the sailors saw their ships were riddled with touch-
downs and forward passes, they “fought like men”
with their fists. It was thought for a while that the
spectators in the stands would join in the fray, but that
event was happily averted.

Auburn’s 77-0 win in 1920 over the Virginians
was the worst defeat the Lexington team had, or has

£4

 

 

 

 

= eo A OL ae ee OI MA GG A. 24 I Baw
ever taken. Also the Mountaineers won the first time land runner. Speer, Finklestein, and Armour were the
since ’O2. point getters in the high and low hurdles.

The next five years the Generals did well under All of the times and distances were below the us-
the coaching of Jimmy DeHart and Pat Herron. The ual standard due to the unfavorable weather condi-
only bad defeat the team took during these years was a tions.

63-0 lacing by West Virginia in 1923. In 1924 the Despite the fact that six Generals did better time
team lost its first conference game in two years. The than they had ever done before under the Blue and
Florida Gators took that one 16-6. In ’25 the Minks White colors, the team was unable to overcome the
won the South Atlantic championship, held Pitt 28-0, William and Mary tracksters, the score being 66 5-6
and Princeton 15-6. The 7-7 tie with the Nassau to 59 1-6.

Tigers, for two years Eastern Champions, was the Leigh Williams in his first appearance this year
high spot of 1926. “Ty” Rauber, back, was the out- took the quarter mile in 50.5 seconds and second in
standing player of the season, and was put on the All- the broad-jump. Frank Bailey with eight points gar-
Southern, All-Eastern and third All-American. nered in the discus with a heave of 133 feet 3 inches

Since 1927 the football teams have been only fair and a second in the shot-put tied Williams for high
at W. and L. The outstanding games were probably —_- point man.
the ties with V. P. I. and Virginia, the win over North Duncan, a new member of the team, took second
Carolina State, and the hard battle put up against in the pole-vault to beat out both General veterans,
Princeton in 1928, when the Generals scored more Maxey and Sanders.
points against the Tigers than any other team. The high jump went to Rivers with a leap of 5

feet 10 inches, while a triple tie for second found Cook
and Curtis deadlocked with a William and Mary jump-
TRACK MEN DO WELL ms

Performing in a drizzling rain, and slowed by the Speer, Southern Conference indoor hurdle cham-
effects of an all-day bus ride to Durham, the Blue and pion, lost his first race of the year in the 120 yard
White track team was forced to accept the short end highs. Finklestein copped the 220 yard lows in 25
of a dual meet with Duke University. The score was seconds.

74-52 in favor of the Blue Devils.

With four events to go, the Generals were lead-
ing by nine points, but Duke took all the places in the MONOGRAMS WON BY 73
javelin and broad-jump, and firsts in the low hurdles .
and half-mile taewin the ‘meet. Seventy-three Washington and Lee athletes from

Speer, General hurdler, led the attack with eight 21 states, the District of Columbia and the Canal Zone
points, with Finklestein, his running mate, contribut- sade given awards in basketball, wrestling, swimming
ing four more. Brownlee, Duke high point man, was and boxing at the annual banquet sponsored by the
torchll t6:dibew ‘record Of 25.6. seconds to aeeeeeat Athletic Council in March. Thirty-nine monograms
Finklestein in the 220 low hurdles. and 34 numerals were awarded.

Stevens, shot-putter; Speer, high hurdler; Bailey, Leigh Williams and Harris Cox were elected co-
discus; Broderick, quarter-miler, and Mahler, two- Capranas of basketball, D. E. Nichols — of Sy
miler, were first place winners for the Generals. ming, and John Osterman captain of wrestling. John

A cold driving rain that soaked participants and Sloshberg was elected captain of boxing before the
spectators alike, did not prevent the Generals from new rules went into effect. Gold emblems represent-
administering another defeat to the University of ing three saa of service ns awarded 11 men. Blan-
Maryland by the score of 92-34. The meet was held kets \: cai pide to 15 seniors.
dis WMtladid Rela’ Bhd waa the ficst ‘local: mest Nine men received monograms in basketball, eight
year. in boxing, eleven in wrestling and ten in swimming. A

Twelve first places for the Blue and White to major monogram was awarded to D. E. Nichols, captain
two for the Old Liners tells the story. Four events, of the swimming team.
the 100 yard dash, high hurdles, high jump, and pole Numerals ere awarded “6 follows: Basketball
vault, were swept by Washington and Lee. Maryland’s seven; wrestling, nine; boxing, nine; and swimming,
only first places were in the mile and the shot put. veh

Edmunds, sophomore sprinter, took both the 100
yard and 200 yard dashes for a total of ten points,
making him high point man for the meet. Captain Lewis C. Gordon, U. S. A. Engineers, has

A sensational sprint by Sheppard, veteran quarter- been transferred from Memphis, Tenn., to Corozal,
miler, just put him across the tape ahead of a Mary- Canal Zone.

[ 18 ]

* tk pee

i, wt Que! ors ay

f

Tank
i jet ee.

i ae ae

. 2 : —
a te ee ee: eb) oP eee

Ni ala lab i i on 1

ae ae ee

 

 

t. Ee 2 eS Mm ON

om &@ GA 2 Aas

«6 Snakey JOR. Here’s a Name to Conjure With in

 

 

S|] HEN Leigh Williams entered Washington and
Lee University four years ago he was just

“another green freshman.” Like some 300

 

 

 

 

other men he was launching his college career.
This June Williams ends his undergraduate days
During his four

of active participation in athletics.
years he has
monograms
ball, basketball, base-
ball, and track to gain
laurels as one of the
few four-letter men
in the Southern Con-
ference. In a recent
edition of College Hu-
mor, Les Gage, sports
aditor of that publi-

won

 

in foot-

 

cation, selected him
as an all-Southern
athlete.

In his sophomore
year, Williams, hold-
ing down an end po-
sition on the Varsity
eleven, served notice
to the critics of the
gridiron sport that he
would their
consideration when he
led the Conference for
among
of the
winter,

demand

score honors
the wingmen
south. That
playing center on the
point-a-minute basket-
ball quintet, he proved
the stellar light of the
Big Blues play in the
Atlanta tournament
and it was not until
he was forced from
the floor via the personal foul route that the Gen-
erals saw their chance for a basketball crown slip
from their grasp. That spring the versatile sopho-
more was a sure starter on the first sack. When he
was not busy with the diamond sport, he occupied his
time running the quarter-mile on the track combine.
Perhaps a little less colorful than in his first two years
on the Varsity, he is still recognized as the most out-
standing athlete at this institution. Wherever a sport
team in his four specialties goes, Williams is sure to
be along.

 

 

Athletic Circles.

Towering well over the six foot mark, “Snakey
Joe” has won a regular position in the end berth
on the gridiron during his three years of Varsity play.
After defeating North Carolina State single handed
in the first-major game of his sophomore year, when
he snared three forward passes, Williams realized

that from then on his

 

path was to be one of

 

opposition, for every
opposing
elevens to schedule
Washington and Lee
studied and mapped
out attacks to thwart
the seemingly  all-
armed Williams. This
fall there was not a

coach. of

team to face the Gen-
erals_ that
instructed to
of the passing attack
of the Big Blue. For
when line bucks and
failed, the
Generals counted on
Williams to score via
the aerial route.
Time after time
it was not uncommon

was not
beware

end runs

to see the Washing-
ton and Lee quarter-
back call for a for-
ward pass, and Wil-
liams would forge out
to the extreme end
only to be hawked by
two of the
tion’s

opposi-
players.
Still he continued to

best

 

score, and it was

largely through his
pass catching that the Generals came within an ace of
defeating West Virginia, bowing only when superior
reserve material proved the Waterloo for the fast tir-
ing Lexington eleven.

Basketball is Williams’ best sport. For three years
the court machine has been built around his playing,
and for three years it has gained the state title. After
his playing at Atlanta the first year on the Varsity
combine, he was accredited as an honorable mention
all-Southern center. The first time sports’ writers in

this section of the country saw his semsational shoot-

[ 19 ]

-. ee ss

ing they were quick to predict his future. When
Washington and Lee won from West Virginia three
years ago a Charleston sports’ writer started his column
of sidelights on the game with:

“Williams can do more tricks with a basketball
than a monkey can on a‘grape vine.”

This year under the direction of a new coach, Ray
Ellerman, the basketball teams switched to a new style
of play—the Meanwell system which has characterized
Middle West play in recent years. This type of floor
play calls for a more deliberate slow dribble in contrast
to the swift aggressive attack by the Generals in former
years. Consequently the court five did not continue
their point-a-minute streak of former years, but once
again it was Williams who led his teammates to a state
title and threw a scare into the highly touted Georgia
five before bowing to them in the Conference tourna-
ment.

Reporting for baseball practice in his sophomore
year, ‘“Snakey Joe’ said he was a first baseman. Per-
haps it was his height; perhaps it was his fame as an
athlete in other sports, but whatever it was Captain
Dick gave Williams his chance at the first corner. For
his sophomore and junior years Williams was the un-
disputed guardian of first base. ‘Today he has turned
this position over to Fitzgerald, a promising sophomore,
and he is devoting his time to pitching. Ranked as
the second best moundsman on the squad, Williams’
speed ball is one that has baffled the majority of teams
to face him this year. When he is not occupying the
pitcher’s box, he is shifted to left field where few balls
go over his head. If the ball is out of the reach of
Williams it is recognized as a long clout, one that is de-
serving of a home run.

Such a versatile athlete in basketball, baseball and
football surely must be good on the track. So thought
Coach Fletcher when he was scouting around for po-
tential candidates for his squad three years ago. Wil-
liams said he would be willing to try though he frankly
admitted that in the past he had not extended his ability
to running. Fletcher asked him to stride around the
track, to see if he could improve his form. One trip
around the oval was enough to convince Fletcher that
he had a new find. Williams was a consistent 50 sec-
ond man for the quarter. That summer he tried out
for the Olympics in the Chicago trials. While he lost
out in the finals, it was evident that he was a trackman
of native ability.

When he started pitching for the Varsity nine the
following spring, he saw that it would be impossible to
devote much time to the cinder sport, so he decided to
go through the season without training for track. As
the thinclads already numbered among their lettermen
a dependable quarter miler, the coach groomed him in
a few sessions for the low hurdles. Form was not pre-

mb 2 ae oe |

wi A Se Be eee

dominate in his debut but few could claim that they
could navigate the distance between the sticks with as
great a rapidity as Williams.

This spring Captain Dick has hopes of winning
the tri-state league, so Williams has been giving less
and less of his time to running. He did enter the
William and Mary meet however to gain a first in the
broad jump and quarter mile, stepping the latter in 50.5
seconds.

We don’t know whether or not Williams is an out-
standing swimmer; we've never seen him box or
wrestle, but we do know that as long as Washington
and Lee graduates of 1928-31 are alive the name that
will be foremost on the tongues of these men when
they speak of the best athlete produced here during
those years will be the name of a man who towers both
figuratively and physically head and shoulders above
all the students—Leigh Williams.

 

GENERAL HURDLERS BEST

“Two years of competition has proved that the
best indoor hurdlers in Dixie come from Washington
and Lee, and their names are Speer and Finklestein,”
reads an Associated Press report from Atlanta.

Both of these men have reigned supreme in their
events for the past two years. At the first Southern
Conference Indoor Track Meet held at North Carolina
University last year, Speer won the high-hurdles and
took second in the lows. Finklestein won first in the
low-hurdles and took a third in the highs.

Finklestein’s time for the 70 yard low hurdles is
said to have tied the world record in the event. In
regard to this the Associated Press says: “The A. A.
U. does not recognize officially records in the 70 yard
low hurdles, but Finklestein’s mark of eight seconds
betters that of Earl Thompson, listed as a noteworthy
performer. ‘Thompson’s time of 8.2 seconds was set
in 1921.”

Neither of the hurdlers were defeated in outdoor
competition last spring but since the Generals did not
compete in the Southern Conference meet at Birming-
ham, the titles went to others.

 

NORMAN THOMAS SPEAKS

Norman Thomas, Socialist candidate for the pres-
idency of the United States, addressed the student
body at a university assembly held recently.

Mr. Thomas has been a candidate for Mayor of
New York City, governor of New York State and is
the author of the recently published book “America’s
Way Out.”

His address to the students pointed out what So-
cialists consider the existing evils in the country today
and explained something of the present tendencies of
Socialism.

[ 20 ]

 

Tt. es oo oe LN

wow: G A 2. Pee Se

W.& L. Mermen Have Successful Season

 

=\HE Washington and Lee swimming team clos-
‘ed a successful season without a defeat in

     

 

 

> 25 | sectional contests, and won the Southern Con-
ence Championship in the 220 yard relay at Atlanta.

 

fer

The General swimmers competed against larger
schools, and were entered for the first time in the Con-
ference tournament, but finished third in the contest
for the Southern crown, in addition to bringing home
the cup for first place in the relay.

At the first meet of the season, Coach E. P. Ttwom-
bly pitted his charges against Duke University at Dur-
ham. The W. and L.

top form, swamped the Wahoo swimmers 40 to 20 in
a hard meet. Stapleton was again the shining light in
the W. & L. win, but he was ably assisted by Rivers,
who finished second to the Generals’ star in the 50 and
100 yard dashes. ‘The feature of the meet came in the
200 yard breast stroke when “Shorty” Weinstein set
a new record of 2 minutes 49.4 seconds for the Wash-
ington and Lee pool. At the end of this meet the Gen-
erals boasted of a clean slate in sectional competition,
and Stapleton, the ace of the W. & L. team, finished the
season undefeated in the dashes.

Members of the

 

swimmers showed
strength from the
start when they
swamped the Blue
Devil team 52 to 8.
In this meet Ed Stap-

 

leton was outstanding,
and continued his bril-
liant performance of
last year in the dash-
es and on the relay
team. The rest of the
squad looked strong
and gave promise of
shaping itself into a
well balanced team.
Later in the sea-
son, on February 6,
Coach Twombly took
his team to Williams-
burg to swim against
the strong William
and Mary squad. ‘This meet firmly established the
calibre of the Generals’ strength, as they performed
well in the face of the stiffest competition, and nosed
out the Williamsburg swimmers by a 20-37 margin. Sta-
pleton again featured the work of the Generals and he
splashed his way to victories in the 40 and 100 yard
dashes, and swam anchor position on the relay team.
The relay team displayed championship form when its
four members, Rivers, Moreland, Nichols and Staple-
ton collaborated in shattering the pool record by nego-
tiating the distance in 1 minute 20.3 seconds. Wein-
stein, in the 200 yards breast stroke, also broke the pool
record in this meet, when he won his event in 3 minutes.
The last meet of the season before the team left
for Atlanta was with the University of Virginia. The
Cavaliers brought to Lexington an undefeated swim-
ming team. ‘The General natators rounded into tip-

[ 21 ]

 

FourTEEN ANSWERS TO A DROWNING GIRL’S PRAYER

team awarded mono-
erams by Coach
Twombly were E. W.
Stapleton, Norwood,
Ohio; D. E. Nichols,
Providence, R. I.; H.
M. Weinstein, New
YoreaeN. ¥.; Jere:
Walker,

Ga.: M. P. Rivers;

Savannah,

Louisville, Ky.; I. L.
Richmond, Flint,
Mich.; W. H. More-
land, Lexington, Va.;
A. D. Zachary, San-
ford, Fla.; J. C. Har-
ris, Pratville, Ala.; A.
J. Rudes, Clarendon,
Va.; > 5 Walton
(Manager) —,Brook-
lyn, N. Y.

CREWS BEGIN PRACTICE

It may snow on April the first, but Washington
and Lee knows that spring is here by one infallible
sign: crew practice has begun. The first official day
of spring is the cue for two blank sheets of paper to
appear on the bulletin board ready for scrawled names
of hopeful candidates. Then, despite the weather, the
student body knows that Easter is not far off.

This year both clubs look forward to the Finals
races with confidence. Material is plentiful and talent-
ed. Harry Lee is fighting to keep last year’s victory
unsmirched; Albert Sidney to regain lost laurels.

Weather has been the only ill. Rain and cold kept
both crews off the river until just after Easter when
the serious work began and the first cutting of the
squads started.

a: BSE A Lee =

I

mw A eG A 2. 2 oe

 

Crew practice is a real pleasure when the weather
is warm and the river is a cool lane of green between
nodding trees. Then the gurgle of water past the shell
is sweet music in the rowers’ ears, and tired, sweating
backs bend more willingly to the long, hard sweep of
the oars. Then the cool swim after work is done is a
pleasant relief to weary muscles and the ride home a
fitting sauce to the waiting dinner. Then the crew
men are happy and proud of their sport.

And Finals races, the culmination of weeks of
tough work, of hard self-restraint. To the chosen men
it is the day of days and they prepare themselves for
a final burst of energy, a final thrilling effort.

The race is over and one boat breathes happily
with victory while the other slumps beaten over their
oars. Both have given their best and there is no hard
feeling at the result. Soon all will be forgotten in the
gayety of the combined banquet.

Win or lose, the race was hard fought and there
is joy and content in the knowledge of work well
done. °

 

BASEBALL IN ’77-’78 DIFFERENT

In past years Washington and Lee baseball teams
have usually been breaking about even in number of
games won and lost. During the last seven years the
team has won 62 games and lost 60. ‘The best season
in recent years was in 1925, when the Generals won 13
and lost 6. In 1924, however, they won 2 and lost 12,
and in 1929 they won 5 and lost 14.

In baseball the General's athletic relations were at
first confined to games with V. M. I. The pitching
must have been weaker and the fielding somewhat loose
in those days—or the ball was faster—as there is no
record up to 1878 giving either side less than 10 runs.
In that year the University of Virginia was shut out.
The first game with any team outside Lexington was
played with the Monticellos here in 1872, and the score
was 24-20 against W. & L. The Generals reversed
the verdict that same spring, but the score is not re-

corded.

An outstanding feature of these games were the
courtesies extended to visiting teams. A supper with
plenty of drinks and toasts always followed a game. It
is said that on one occasion the merchants of Char-
lottesville even refused pay for purchases made by the
Washington and Lee team.

In 1877, the University of Virginia was victorious
over W. & L., winning 19-17, but in 1878 this defeat
was retrieved when the local nine shut out the Wahoos
12-0. “The Great” Sykes pitched both games and in
the latter his curves could not be touched. The Uni-
versity Magazine called this “the most scurvy trick
ever perpetuated in the history of baseball.” In 1892

the Generals accomplished the difficult feat of winning
every game played, and won the championship of the
south.

 

FENCING TEAM ORGANIZED

Recognizing the growing importance of fencing
as an inter-collegiate sport, efforts are being made at
Washington and Lee University to organize a team
and have it ready to compete with other schools by next
September. In this connection, all men interested in
the sport have been meeting regularly under the lead-
ership of Glen Givens, a student experienced with the
blades.

In preparation for possible meets next year, the
men have been divided into two groups, one working
with the foil under Givens, and another with the saber
under Phil Lowy. Since the foil is the most popular
weapon in Southern schools, if Washington and Lee
organizes a saber and an epee team, and arranges com-
petition with those weapons, it will thus become a
leader in this field.

According to the organizers, all men who have
reported thus far have had experience and material is
considered generally promising for a successful season.

Next semester it is planned to get a faculty spon-
sor and arrange for enough meets so that fencing will
be recognized as a minor sport of Washington and

Lee.

 

FLETCHER PAYS ROCKNE TRIBUTE

To the expression of deep grief over the death of
Knute Rockne by all those who knew the man for his
qualities of leadership and inspiration, Coach Fletcher,

fe

ea
nas

who knew him as a friend and competitor in high school —

and who lived in the same house with him at college,
has added his personal sorrow.

In discussing what Rockne meant to the collegiate

world, he stated that Rockne was the greatest football —
coach and inspirational leader he has even known, and
that his death will be a distinct loss to football at this —

particular time.
public eye, and the one man who could rescue football

Rockne was the one man who had the —

from the odium that is being heaped upon it today by ©

those who are raising the cry of over-emphasism.

“Rockne claimed that football was not being emphasiz-

ed enough and was just at the peak of his power when —
he would have been able to justify his statements,” —

Fletcher said.

Coach Fletcher summed up the sentiment of the —
nation concerning the death of Rockne when he said, —

“It doesn’t seem right that such a wonderful man as —
Rockne should be taken at this time from his family, —

his friends, and his country.”

[ 22 |

 

eo ae

| ee Se, a. Se ae

mo Ae GG *& 2. oe

Hobson Recalls the Good Old Days

 

<e—@|/UR home was about forty-five miles west of
)| Richmond, Virginia, and twenty miles from a
¢-\railroad. Soon after General Lee’s surrender
the news was spread about in our neighborhood that
General Lee was living in Richmond and renting a
house without any money to pay rent or buy provisions.
Mrs. Edmund Cocke, who lived about seven miles from
us had built on the end of her farm a rectory for the

 

 

 

 

ident. The President died about two years before.
The boys had all gone in the Army and the United
States troops had occupied the buildings as a barracks
leaving everything in a very bad condition. At the
meeting of the trustees names were suggested for Pres-
ident, but nobody seconded any nomination. At last a
gentleman sitting back got up and said this: ‘“Gentle-
men I came this evening on the train with Miss Mary

Episcopal Church and furnished it.
The pastor had died about a year be-
fore and the house was vacant. She
wrote to General Lee offering him
the use of the house and suggesting
that he would not suffer for provisions
if he came up there. General Lee
accepted the invitation and moved in
with his family. As soon as this was
known the neighborhood folks com-
menced carrying the Lees something of
what they had to eat. Nobody had
any money. One man had taken $5.00
to the courthouse the last court day
and it passed through a hundred hands
during the day. Nearly everybody in
the neighborhood was in the condition
of my father. When the army passed

 

The Alumni Magazine
takes pleasure in recording
Mr. Hobson’s recollections.
The time has come when
few are living who remem-
ber General Lee, and it is
a joy to pass on to our
readers the material here
contributed.

Alumni are encouraged
to write for the magazine.
Much of our best reading
matter has come in this
way. If you do not have
something of your own to
contribute, perhaps you
know some alumnus of
Washington and Lee whom
you can persuade to send
an article to the Magazine.

Lee. She said that southern people
were willing to give her father any-
thing they had, but there was one thing
thay had never offered and that was
work, now I move that we elect Gen--
eral Lee President of Washington Col-
lege.” ‘The President said in response
to this: “You know, gentlemen, that
all the endowment of Washingto Col-
lege was put in southern bonds and we
do not know whether we will ever get
a dollar from them or not. I don’t
think it will be right to offer General
Lee the presidency of Washington Col-
lege in such a condition of things,
besides the salary we could pay would
not warrant General Lee to accept.”
The gentleman who had made the mo-

they took away from our house all the

 

 

tion insisted upon his motion, sug-

 

teams that were able and pretty much
everything else that was in sight. My brother and I
were going barefooted because of no money in sight
to buy shoes. He was thirteen and I was not quite fif-
teen. Ma had me hitch up the horse to the buggy and
we went over to call on Mrs. Lee, taking with us a
ham or two, the best part of a lamb and some other
eatables. The other neighbors did about the same way.
Mrs. Lee was an invalid, sitting in a roll chair. While
we were there Mrs. Lee said to General Lee, “Robert,
please get me a glass of water,” and promptly he got
it and waited on her very tenderly. This astonished me
very much, for the idea of anybody so addressing Gen-
eral Lee seemed very improper. Not many days after-
wards General Lee rode Old Traveller over to our
house to return the call, and while there he said to my
mother, “Now, Mrs. Hobson, I want to see all the
children.” There were nine of us; the youngest was
only about two months old. After much scurrying
around, a lot of children dressed just like they were
every day, appeared before the old gentleman to be
introduced.

While General Lee was living there in this way
the trustees of Washington College met to elect a Pres-

gesting that General Lee could live
in the President’s house and the salary be $2,000, which
they had always paid. He was satisfied this could be paid
out of the tuition fee. Finally the President suggested
that it would not be right to offer General Lee the pres-
idency without somebody seeing him and fairly explain-
ing to him the whole situation, and suggested that Judge
Brockenbrough, who was one of the trustees and an
old friend of General Lee, go down to see him and tell
him the situation. The Judge had occupied in Vir-
ginia for many years the same position that Judge
Barr held in Kentucky some years ago and stood about
the same way. The Judge said he would like very
much to go down and see his old friend, but he was too
old to walk and he had not a dollar to pay railroad
fare and had no clothes to wear. Another member of
the board, who was a merchant in Lexington, then said
this: “My sister-in-law sold a cow last week for $30.00.
I can borrow the $30.00. I bought a new suit of clothes
last spring which I have never put on. The Judge and
I are about the same size and I will be glad to get
the $30.00 and lend him the suit.” The result was that
Judge Brockenbrough wore the borrowed suit and went
down to see General Lee. A few days before the Judge

[ 23 ]

Be EE A ‘La ae

got there a man who had organized a new insurance
company in New York came down to see General Lee
and told him that they wanted him to be the President
of the insurance company at a salary of $50,000 a year.
General Lee said: “My dear sir, I don’t know anything
about insurance.” The man said: “We know that
General, all we want is your name.” The General
said: “My name is all I have.” ‘The result was that
the General declined the offer, and when Judge Brock-
enbrough came and explained to him the situation at
Washington College the General said to him that that
was the very thing he wanted; that he wanted to do
what he could for the young men of the South, and he
thought they could build up the school. The result was
that three weeks later General Lee rode into Lexington
on Old Traveller, riding the whole distance, about a
hundred miles, alone. School was opened the following
September with something over a hundred scholars;
but the next year there were about three hundred and
when I went there in 1867 there were about five hun-
dred. After General Lee’s death in 1870 the name of
the school was changed to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. As a matter of fact the endowment was not
lost but turned out to be all right.
J. P. HOBSON.

 

YEAR MARKED BY FOUR FIRES

Four spectacular night blazes since the beginning
of the school year have destroyed as many of Lexing-
ton’s old buildings, three of which were connected with
Washington and Lee.

The first of this series of fires was early in Feb-
ruary when the old Kappa Sigma Fraternity house on
Main Street was badly burned by a blaze caused by de-
fective wiring. The house was 15 years old and the
damage of $15,000 was partly covered by insurance.
The Kappa Sigma intend to build a new house on the
same site which will be ready for occupancy by next
September.

The second serious fire in Lexington came later on
in February when the old Washington and Lee field
house was burned to the ground by a blaze which lit up
the sky for miles around as the flames from the old
frame building rose hundreds of feet in the air. The
large building stood across the ravine from the Dore-
mus gymnasium and was used by the football and base-
ball teams for a dressing room. A new hardwood
floor had been one of the new improvements in the
structure and the boxing team was using it for their
training quarters. Some athletic supplies were de-
stroyed by the fire and the rest of the damage was
partly covered by insurance. The original cost of the
building when built in 1913 was $6,500. There have
been no definite plans for rebuilding formulated as yet.

Tate in March the third fire of any size started in
the center of Lexington and from a distance appeared

I

MAG A 2 oe

to be the Jackson Memorial Hospital, but proved to be
the frame garage building adjoining the hospital. This
buildng, owned by Ted Hill, was burning fiercely be-
tore the fire department arrived and threatened not
only the hospital but the entire lower section of Lex-
ington. Adjoining buildings were scorched badly and
the firemen were kept busy to prevent its spreading.
One auto was burned in the blaze in addition to a large
supply of stored lumber which was totally destroyed.

The last of the fires occurred during the Easter
holidays when the old Sigma Chi house on the corner
of Washington Street and Lee Avenue was wiped out
by another blaze which illuminated the sedate Lexing-
ton country side. This fire too threatened the entire
block around it. The small frame house behind it~
caught fire several times but was extinguished and the
Dutch Inn also was severely threatened. The damage
in this case was estimated at close to $6,000. This
fire forced another fraternity from its house and will
necessitate the building of a new one to replace it.

With the continuation of so many serious fires
Lexington will be rapidly modernized and the anti-
quated atmosphere will be replaced by a more up-to date
and more fire proof city.

Plans are being formulated to rebuild the Kappa
Sigma House in its old site on South Main Street. Eu-
bank & Caldwell, of Roanoke, are the temporary archi-
tects for the structure which will cost in the neighbor-
hood of $40,000. |

The new house will be set further back on the plot —
and a terrace will surround it. It will be built in the
customary colonial design with four columns on the
front.

The interior of the building will have many new
features. A living room will stretch across the front —
of the house which will enable it to be used for dances —
and other social functions besides its regular role. The —
dining room will be in the rear of the living room and

will be raised five feet above the floor level of the lat- ¥ .
The kitchen from which the food will be served a

ter.
will also be on this floor while the real kitchen will be
in the cellar.
kitchens. :

In the basement there will also be the lodge room — %
and a garage for the cars of the members.

Upstairs there will be fourteen double rooms di-
vided between the second and third floors. An al- —
tempt to maintain the privacy and homelike atmosphere —
will be emphasized. . ae

When the house is finished in the fall, it will be
the seventh new fraternity house on the Washington —
and [ee campus.

 

Adrian Boyd, ’17, is in the cotton busines im
Clarksdale, Miss.

[ 24 ]

A dumbwaiter will connect the two —

 

Lee

Ro Soe NCI

mas. G A242 ifm &@

Dozen New Student Officers Are Chosen

 

=| VWELVE new student-body officers who will

| serve Washington and Lee in 1931-32 were
“= =| chosen April 17 when 740 students visited the
polls on the annual election day. Despite the fact that
seven candidates ran unopposed, more than ninety per-
cent of the student-body voted. Last Spring, in a bit-
terly contested election, 809 votes were cast.

H. G. Morison, a law student and member of Phi
Gamma Delta, was elected president of the student-
body. He ran unopposed and received 712 votes, the
highest number polled by any candidate.

 

 

 

 

Ross Malone, who is a member of Sigma Nu, will

Pi, was chosen business manager of this publication
when he received 664 votes. He had no opponent.

D. George Price, a member of Lambda Chi Alpha,
won over C. EF. Allen for editorship of the Ring-tum
Phi. Price polled 433 votes to Allen’s 270. Ted Cur-
tis, running unopposed, received 662 votes to be elected
business manager of the paper.

J. W. Clopton, another unopposed candidate, was
chosen editor of the Southern Collegian, getting 674
votes. Clopton is a Delta Tau Delta.

In the closest race of the entire elections, John
D. Copenhaver, a Kappa Sigma, won over Henry Sher-

wood, a Sigma Alpha Epsilon, for the position of busi-
ness manager of the Southern Collegian. Copenhaver
got a 40-vote majority, receiving 377 while Sherwood
got 333.

For cheer leader, Jack Savage, a Kappa Sigma,
was chosen over Alfred R. Jones, a Lambda Chi Al-
pha. Savage polled 462 votes gainst 262 for Jones.

The proposed Campus Tax and amendments to
the constitution were passed when 600 votes favored
them against 123 in opposition. The Campus Tax is
a plan to assess each student $10 at registration. This
fee will include subscription to Washington and Lee’s
three publications, a Christian Work fee, and tryout
fees for Troubadours, Glee Club, Band, Debating, and
Student Expense Fund.

be the new vice-president. He polled 542 votes to de-
feat H. G. Dollahite, who had 182.

Four men contested for secretary-treasurer of the
student-body. Fred Swink won with 401 votes, R.
C. Gilmore was next with 191, John Dean received 83,
and W. D. Hoyt got 51.

Running unopposed for president of Finals, Gene
Martin, Alpha Tau Omega, was elected with 663 vetes.

Another unopposed candidate, Jim Sparks, a P1
Kappa Alpha, was elected president of Fancy Dress
when he received 689 votes.

The editor of the 1932 Calyx will be R. L. Mc-
Kinney, a member of Sigma Chi. Running without
opposition, he got 692 votes. C. E. Long, a Beta Theta

 

Donnally Practicing in Charleston

William W. W. Donnally was graduated from the School of Law in
1924. He attracted unto himself during his career a large percentage of
the honors and achievements which one man can get.

His social fraternity was Phi Kappa Psi.

He was a member of Omricon Delta Kappa, national honorary leader-
ship fraternity.

His social honors included Pan, “13” Club, Cotillion Club, and
Kappa Beta Phi. He was associated with the Troubadours in ’23, ’24,
and ’25.

He served as president of Pan in 1925. He was society editor of
the Calyx in ’24. He was a member of the Interfraternity Council, and
leader of the Interfraternity Dance in 1924. He led the Pan-White
Friar German in 1925. He was assistant Alumni Secretary in ’24.

He was a member of Phi Alpha Delta, honorary legal fraternity. He
was also a member of the Washington Literary Society.

“ Wirt’ was one of the best-known and most popular men in school.”
was the opinion of a contemporary.

Since his graduation he has been engaged in the practice of law in
Charleston, W. Va. For a brief interlude he was in the oil business, before going back to law. Re-
cently he ran for office in the city of Charleston, which is his home.

 

 

 

 

[ 25 ]

Fee a Lee oe ee

=m A G A 2 2 eee

 

-_

Campus Tax Passed; Hailed by Students

 

HE Campus Tax which was passed by a large
»| majority of the student body in the spring elec-
tion is believed to be the greatest forward
ae made by Washington and Lee undegraduates in
preservation of and aid to campus activities in the last
twenty years. The tax was favored by every student
candidate for office in the recent elections.

The Campus Tax is considered as the dues to
the Student Body and is payable at the time of regis-
tration. Failure to pay the tax renders any student
ineligible to vote or to hold student office.

Payment of the fee entitles the student to a sub-
scription to the Ring-tum Phi, Southern Collegian, and
the Calyx and admission to all Troubadour perform-
ances, Glee Club concerts, and Debating meets in
Lexington.

The money is disbursed as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

alert die. ccxsciees-is ab $ 4.00
Bing tuee Phi bai’. 58... ae 1.75
pouthern: Geilerian  o.6....c.2...:.... used 1.00
Christian * Ai 24i6 2h hsia ok ech 1.00
Student Body Expense Fund .............. 75
LROMAGUTe cP... ey ca 40
PeOOC ME MNNIEE ¢..7..3...;.,,cedchecaivdntevineae .10
PRM) Ss ©. c. -2k os cdo kee a 10
(Sie eg i tt. adeaatonk saab 10
IRCRIII I fons... bore el te cias 45

ce ee, iste $10.00

This ratio can be varied by a two-thirds vote of
the Executive Committee of the student body. The
amounts apportioned to publications may be varied
among the publications, at the discretion of the Pub-
lication Board.

Money taken in by all student organizations in-
cluding dances, publications, dramatic organizations,
which amounts to about $30,000, will be deposited in
a Central Student Body Fund.

There will be a paid treasurer of student body
funds who will be appointed by the Executive Com-
mittee, with the approval of the president of the Uni-
versity.

The treasurer will receive the student body fee and
all other moneys taken in by the different organiza-
tions. He will disburse the student body fee in the
ratio given above and will pay by check all properly
approved bills. All the disbursements will be made
by check and will be signed by the treasurer and the
manager of the organization. ‘The accounts of each
organization will be kept separately, and no organiza-
tion or publication will be allowed to touch the ac-
count of another except by two-thirds vote of the Exec-

utive Committee. The treasurer will keep a sepa-
rate account of $2500, to be known as the Publication
Reserve, for use by the Publication Board only, and
then subject to the disbursement for such purposes only
upon the request of the Publication Board.

The last measure of the Campus Tax is the
changing of the personnel of the Executive Committee,
in order to give better representation to the campus and
avoid the possibility of any man voting twice. The
Committee will be composed of the president, vice-
president and secretary of the student body, representa-
tives from the senior and intermediate law classes, two
representatives from the senior class (including all can-
didates for A.B. and B.S. degrees and all four year
men except intermediate and senior lawyers) a rep-
resentative each from the junior, sophomore, and fresh-
man classes, and one to be chosen by and from the
Publication Board.

 

THREE ALUMNI WIN PHI BETA KAPPA

Three prominent alumni were elected to Phi Beta
Kappa along with twelve members of the student body
at the annual initiation of the society, held in the Alum-
ni Building on Saturday, March 28.

Herbert Fitzpatrick, B.A., LL.B., 1892, vice-
president and General Counsel of the C. & O. Rail-
road; A. Dana Hodgdon, B.A., 1911, Chief Visa Di-
vision of the Department of State,, Washington, D. C.;
and Richard W. Flournoy, Jr., 1898, Counsel of the
Department of State, Washington, D. C., are the gradu-
ates chosen by the Virginia Gamma chapter of the
honorary scholastic society.

The initiation ceremonies were conducted by
President Francis Pendleton Gaines at the Alumni
Building and at the banquet which followed, at the
Dutch Inn, Dr. Gaines acted as toastmaster, opening
the program with a short speech, pertinent to the oc-
casion. He then called on F. M. Smith, who spoke for
the undergraduates, and whose response was followed
by short talks by each of the alumni initiates.

The banquet was concluded by a speech from Col-
onel Hunter Pendleton, Phi Beta Kappa of Virginia,
who, as a guest, was present at the ceremonies.

Undergraduates initiated were: J. P. Armstrong,
Rogersville, Tenn.; C. A. Bowes, Denver, Col.; J. M.
Dean, Detroit, Mich.; W. M. Dix, Mobile, Ala.; J. H.
Hardwick, Winchester, Ky.; L. W. King, Spottsyl-
vania, Va.; G. M. Lapsley, Richmond, Va.; W. T.
Martin, Bristol, Va.; E. M. Riley, Lexington, Va.; F.
M. Smith, Jellico, ee J. C. Smith, Clifton, Ill. :
and W. N. Tiffany, Muaansns, Va.

[ 26 ]

 

 

T if ac hee 9h at Oot

DETROIT ALUMNI MEET

Five Detroit alumni of Washington and Lee met
Saturday, April 11, for a Get Acquainted Luncheon at
the Wolverine Hotel. Plans for getting together the
alumni had been discussed for a number of years by
Ralph Hummel and Edward Lyons.

Announcements of the luncheon were sent to four-
teen men whose names were supplied by “Cy’’ Young.
The alumni attending were Winship Cabaniss, 1888-89.
Claude §S. Fitzpatrick, 1893-94; Major James W. Bag-

ley, 1899-03; Edward Lyons, 1909-13, and .Ralph

Hummel, 1916-20.

The “old timers” at the luncheon told about Presi-
dent Lee, son of General Robert E. Lee, “Old Hatchet,”
“Old Harry,” Old Alex” and numerous others. To
the older alumni the mention of the names of these
teachers will bring back memories.

Several of the attending alumni had not returned
to the campus they still love, and the younger men told
them of modern Lexington, of Main street as it now
looks, and of the University.

The Detroit alumni plan another meeting for a
future Saturday, and hope that other W. & L. men in
the city will attend.

It may be of interest to the classmates of the above
mentioned alumni to know something of their where-
abouts and doings.

Winship Cabaniss, 973 Merrick Ave.
W. & L. he roomed with D. L. Groner.

Claude S. Fitzpatrick, Executive Vice-President,
Michigan Industrial Bank. Formerly of Helena, Ark-
ansas. Vice-President Interstate National Bank,
President Arkansas Bankers Association. He recalls,
with considerable pleasure, Jno. Randolph Tucker, “Old
Hatchet,” “Old Harry,” “Sport” Groner, “Bev.”
Tucker, “Old Alex” and others. Fitzpatrick was the
“baby” of the campus, having entered W. & L. at the
tender age of about 14 years.

Major James W. Bagley, cousin of “Battle” Bag-
ley, studied under “Old Davey,” “Old Alex,” “Old
Harry” and is a contemporary of Dr. S. C. Lind, Dave
Barclay of Lynchburg, and “Ran” Tucker of Rich-
mond. Major Bagley is in charge of U. S. Lake Sur-
vey with offices at the Old Customhouse.

Edward Lyons, can be found in the Research Lab-
oratories of Parke, Davis & Co., and will always be
happy to have W. & L.. men drop in for a chat.

Ralph Hummel has spent all his time since leaving
W. & L. in the Chemical Manufacturing Division of

While at

I

Parke, Davis & Co., and is now Assistant Manager of .

that department. Ralph still “swings” a racket and
has taken on trap shooting to train his eye and arm.

 

Reed Graves, ’24, was among the alumni attending
the “13 Club” Dance April 18th.

MuA:. G A..2 oes

COON-SANDERS TO PLAY AT FINALS

With Coon-Sanders and another band, yet to be
selected, playing for Finals this year, Alumni will re-
turn for the first time in eight years to find anyone
but Jan Garber furnishing music for the dance set.
Announcement that Coon-Sanders will play Friday
and Saturday nights, June 5 and 6, was made by C.
W. Day, Jr., President of Finals, late in April.

The Coon-Sanders organization, famous as the
original Night Hawks, have been engaged by V. M. I.
to play for their Finals from Monday night on, and
because of this, Day expects to hire another nationally
known orchestra to play at W. and L. Monday and
Tuesday. Although the Military Institute dances start
Saturday night, it has been arranged that Coon-San-
ders will stay in Doremus Gymnasium Saturday night
while V. M. I. uses another orchestra.

As a special added feature, the Coon-Sanders
band will play a special all-request program in the gym
Sunday afternoon. Day believes this will fill a gap that
has in previous years been spent in idling.

The University has just announced that Former-
Governor Frank O. Lowden, of Illinois, will deliver
the Commencement address Tuesday, and that Dr.
Robert F. Campbell, brother of Dean Henry D. Camp-
bell, will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Doctor
Campbell’s home is in Asheville, N. C.

Laurence C. Witten, chairman of the Alumni
Committee for Finals, reports that a varied program
has been arranged for entertainment of returning
graduates. Sunday, June 7, is Alumni Day, and on
that night will be held the first formal get-together
of Alumni, at a smoker under auspices of the Lexing-
ton Alumni.

The Alumni Meeting will take place Monday
morning, at 10 a. m., in the Library. The Alumni
Committee requests that suggestions of subjects for
discussion at this gathering be forwarded to them.
While the meeting is in progress, Mrs. Cy Young will
be hostess at a bridge party in the Alumni building,
for ladies accompanying husbands, sons, or brothers
to Lexington. After the meeting and bridge party, the
Alumni luncheon will be held at 1:00 p. m. in the col-
lege dining hall.

If plans now under way materialize, either a Var-
sity baseball game or a Varsity-Alumni game will be
played Monday afternoon. The University of Mary-
land is temporarily scheduled to face the Generals
on the diamond here at that time. Efforts are being
made to move the annual crew race back to Monday
afternoon, as has been the custom in the past.

Late Monday afternoon, an Alumni soiree will be
held on the athletic field, beginning with late afternoon
supper. It is expected by the Committee that this will
prove the outstanding event of Alumni gathering.

[ 27 |

. A Lea eee

I

M AG A 2 2a

 

BUSINESS LEADERS MEET AT W. & L.
(Continued from page 14

“Restraining optimism during boom periods and
counter-acting forces leading to pessimism are the
best possible lines of attack for minimizing business
fluctation, Professor King said. ‘When people are
optimistic, goods of all kinds are ordered more freely
than income justifies. Workers get deeper into debt;
credit becomes exhausted; and then people begin to
doubt prosperity. This appearance of doubt brings
decrease of purchases; then employes begin to be laid
off.”

H. Parker Willis, professor of finance at Colum-
bia University and editor of the New York Journal of
Commerce, and Alexander Noyes, financial editor of
the New York Times, were principal speakers at Fri-
day afternoon’s session, presided over by Robert H.
Angell, president of the Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company, Roanoke. Open forum discussions after the
addresses were led by W. S. Battle, vice-president of
the Norfolk and Western Railroad, and T. M. Terry,
vice-president of the Craddock-Terry Company, Lynch-
burg.

Mismanagement of a banking and credit system
caused the financial panic of October, 1929, Doctor
Willis told Conference visitors in his address on “Bank-
ing and Business Depression.” This policy, during the
last five years, shifted from independent, self-sustain-
ing small bank mechanism to the practice of transfer-
ring, the providing of capital from the banker to the
stock market, he said.

Doctor Noyes said four theories had been advanc-
ed in explanation of the financial distress which Prof-
essor Willis had outlined. The process of reorganiza-
tion, he said, is painful; nevertheless, we must carry
through a house cleaning with reference to banking
conditions as well as in other respects. Recurrent per-
iods of severe reaction prove the failure and breakdown
of what is called the “capitalistic system,” he said. Ad-
vancing President Hoover’s thought that these periods
are unnatural and not inevitable, he placed the blame
on faulty administration, pointing out that control is
within the power of modern business.

Mr. Rich said the general desire of the American
people to get rich by investment was the direct cause
of the unemployment panic which came from over-pro-
duction in the prosperous years of 1928-29.

“The problem now is to bring back a demand for
commodities and thereby furnish employment for some
five million persons who want to work. This will in-
crease incomes of the millions struck by depression,”
he said.

The shorter day with employment for all is a logi-
cal solution if a proper wage scale can be arranged, he

said. ‘Leaders of capital and labor hold the fate of
the country in their hands.

“Business is adrift, but it must not continue with-
out pilot or chart; or the crew, mutinous because it is
hungry, will take control of the ship and drive it on the
rocks. ;

“The world owes no man a living but it owes every
man an opportunity to make a living,” he concluded.

 

New Haven, Conn.
April 1, 1931.

_Mr. H. K. Young,

Alumni Secretary,
Dear Cy:

Enclosed please find my check for $4.00 for the
Alumni Magazine for the next two years.
the subject, let me congratulate you on the interesting
magazine you are making of it. The material you are
publishing and the way it is presented both deserve
praise.

The alumni here have not been doing anything
very outrageous, so far as has come to my knowledge.
Julian Gravely has recently taken a position in Wil-
mington, Delaware, with the Bond Manufacturing
Company, I believe. I have no other particulars. Pat

Osbourn continues to direct the athletics of Yale fresh- _
Francis

men—and does a mighty successful job of it.
Miller has been delivering a series of lectures on dif-
ferent aspects of international affairs, which have at-
tracted very favorable comment. He has concluded
them, however, and has departed.

gineering text-book of which Professor Lyle has been
so kind as to express a favorable opinion.

I wish I could get down for Finals, but I can’t
this year. With best wishes for yourself, and for all
connected with Washington and Lee.

Sincerely yours,
WILLIAM J. COX, ’16

 

A letter from Carl Gill written March 14th and ’ :
received in Lexington on April 10th says that he will

sail the latter part of July for Marseilles, via Casa
Blanca, Algiers, etc., go to Paris for a week or two, and
then home, arriving the early part of September. He

says he will make a special effort to be in Lexington —

about the time school opens.

 

T. F. Epes, is Commonwealth’s Attorney of Not- —
toway County. Charles Wilson and Fielding Wilson
are practicing Law at Crewe, Va., and Charley Brad-

shaw is with the Norfolk and Western at Crewe.

 

The many friends of Willie Hopkins, ’17, will be 4
glad to know that he is recovering from a long and —

serious illness.

[ 28 ]

While on —

I have just pub- a
lished—with a joint author to share my guilt—an en-

 

filbi.

ty

Tea style ay
Cris eee te

+. 4 ae mei AD aN

GREAT WAR CLASS OF ’17.
Continued from Page 6

Library, now building a $65,000 public library ; member
of American Legion; ardent hunter and fisherman and
thinks Arkansas is a great hunting country ; specializes
in insurance from the legal standpoint ; active in W. and
L, Alumni work in Pine Bluff.

Percy King Miles, Box 448, Danville, Virginia; a
tobacco buyer; married Miss Edith Williamson, of
Danville, Virginia, December 18, 1920; he is a Demo-
crat, but is not active in politics; he finds his time so
much taken up with business that he has not had time
for outside activities or hobbies.

Gus Ottenheimer, Ottenheimer Brothers, Little
Rock, Arkansas, ladies ready-to-wear (wholesale) ;
Gus practiced law for six years, and has been with the
department for three years; he is still single, stating
that “I have managed to travel farther and faster by
myself” ; he is a Democrat and once in a while he votes ;
member of the Rotary Club; is member of Board of
Governors Little Rock chamber of commerce and
Chairmgn Manufacturers and Wholesalers Bureau ;
plays quite a bit of golf; was located in Providence, R.
I., for several years, and then the call of the home
state came too strong; in business with his brother.

Evan Sidebottom McCord, Fort Worth, Texas,
703 Beil P. Anderson Building, of Anderson, Orr &
McCord, attorneys; has been practicing law except
time he was in the Navy; married in 1927, to Kath-
erine Rout, of Versailles, Kentucky; is Democrat and
does not believe in Hoover or his prosperity; has got-
ten bald and reformed much since the boys knew him
in 1917; is enjoying good health and very much in-
terested in Texas and getting along in the practice ot
law; is kept busy now, which was not the case for
several years after coming to Texas.

Orba O. McCurdy, Vernon, Texas; attorney and
manager of the Vernon Retail Merchants’ Associa-
tion; after leaving W. and L. did a little unfinished
business for Uncle Sam, enlisting with the U. S.
Marines, living through it, and being discharged in
August, 1919; returned to Vernon and the practice of
law; in 1921, married and have had the same wife ever
since; elected county attorney of Wilbarger County,
held the job for four years, during which a hectic oil
boom took place, and he handled more criminal cases
than W. H. Moreland even knew existed; must have
talked too much during his last year for he lost his
voice, an affliction that lasted 16 months, and which
caused him to retire from active general practice; he
is a Mason, a Methodist, a Democrat (not of the Hoovy-

I

NM CS: Ae ee
er variety), a dub golfer, a poor bridge player, and
will neglect his business any time for a hunting trip.

J. Richard Perry, 409 Harvey Street, Williamson,
West Virginia ;lawyer ;in U.S.Army until April, 1919;
practiced law in Pocahontas, Virginia, 1923 ; postmaster
at Pocahontas, Virginia, from 1923 to 1926; returned
to law practice and moved to Williamson; married Miss
Claudine Lane, of Bluefield, Virginia, and two child-
ren, Phyllis, aged 6, and Richard L., aged 4; favors
the Republican party and is a member of the executive
committee of his county; member of Lions Club of
Bluefield, West Virginia; still believes that W. & L. is
the best school in the South, and that Southwest Vir-
ginia and southern West Virginia are the best places
in the world in which to live.

Charles G. Peters, of Mohler, Peters & Kelly,
lawyers, Kanawha National Bank Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia; practiced law at Rutherfordton,
North Carolina, for four weeks after graduation; en-
listed as a private in the army, served in France for 16
months; was captain of ‘“D” and “Headquarters” com-
panies, 126 Infantry, 32nd Division; has practiced law
exclusively since army discharge in 1919; specializes in
insurance law trial work; kept out of the stock market
until May, 1930, and it is not, therefore, necessary
further to detail his financial condition; married Miss
Esther Teague, December 5th, 1925, and has one son,
Charles G., Jr.; is a deep-dyed-in-the-wool Democrat ;
against the tariff and everything else any way in sym-
pathy with Republican policies; has done everything
else in his power to place the Republican party before
the public in its true light, i. e., as an enemy and active
detriment to the prosperity and happiness of this coun-
try; plays golf; is Permanent President of the Law
Class of 1917.

Herbert G. Peters, Jr., Lee Street, Bristol, Vir-
ginia; lawyer; was deputy clerk of the Corporation
Court of Bristol for a short time ; was seaman and yeo-
man in the U. S. Navy during the World War; married
June 27, 1928, to Miss Avilda Carver, of Alexander,
Missouri, and has one boy about six months old; is a
Democrat despite Raskob; has been local registrar of
voters for several years and is a party worker in the
ranks on election day ; member of Lions Club, and for-
mer president of the Club; plays tennis and has sev-
eral cups for more or less_ efficiency in the game; is
a director of the Washington Trust and Savings Bank
and also a director in the Interstate Building and Loan
Association; he is attorney for these institutions as
well as several other corporations.

_ John J. D. Preston, Charleston, West Virginia;
attorney-at-law; was in the army during the World

[ 29 ]

= <2

War, and has practiced law ever since hitherto; no wife
and no children; is a Democrat and to the comment on
the questionnaire that “Hoover is a fine President” re-
joins “The Hell he is!” ; he is active for the Democratic
party; John states that his bootlegger is out to lunch so
that we must wait; well, we are waiting, Johnnie.

Sam Silverstein, Charleston, West Virginia, at-
torney; married August 8, 1921, to Miss Helen Fisher
of Washington, D. C., and has two children, both boys
aged 4 and 7 years; is a Republican, but has been very
little active in politics; is a member of Kiwanis Club;
hobbies are golf and camping.

Laurence Williams, Graham Building, Jackson-
ville, Florida; attorney-at-law; was a Y. M. C. A.
Secretary, stationed at Camp Wheeler, Macon, Georgia,
and has since practiced law; is unmarried but still
hopeful; is a Democrat as long as the party sticks to
Democracy, but still believes that Hoover was the best
Democrat in 1928; was vice-president of the Y’s Men’s
Club; special interests are working with the young
people of his Church and Community and cultivating
the flowers around his home; during 1928 and 1929
the Florida State Christian Endeavor Union selected
him as president and since that time he has been re-
tained on the State Advisory Committee; he likewise
has been Secretary of the Executive Committee of the
Florida State Y. M. C. A.; having answered the ques-
tionnaire, the defendant prays to be discharged with
his costs so unjustly expended.

Willian B. Yancey, Fort Ontario, New York; is
an army officer; after leaving W. & L. practiced law
for a while and then returned to the army; married
Miss Elizabeth Faw, of Staunton, Virginia, and has
four children, Elizabeth, Mildred, Bill, Jr., and Mary;
independent in politics, but is an army officer, hobbies
are golf and horses; he is a Captain, Infantry, U.S. A.;
went to France in 1917, was wounded; resigned Feb.
15th, 1919, passed bar examination spring 1919, and
practiced law in Harrisonburg until 1920; then entered
the Army; has been stationed at Fort Howard, Mary-
land, then to Georgia, then R. O. T. C., University of
Maryland, then to Panama Canal, then to Fort Ontario.

 

SNIVELY-MASON

The Alumni Office has received an announcement
of the marriage on Tuesday, March 24, of David Ray-
mond Snively, ‘23, to Miss Valinda Mason, at Hagers-
town, Maryland.

 

GODWIN- MAISH

The marriage of Harry E. Godwin, W. & L., ’28,
member of the S. A. E. fraternity and Miss Nancy

ATER ee

M A G 2) oe
Maish, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Maish, of
Indianapolis, took place on Thursday, February 19th,
at the Maish home in Indianapolis. At home, Lima
Ohio.

’

 

MITCHELL-WIJTT

Miss Dora Winborne Witt was married Saturday
evening, March 14th, at 7:30 to Dr. Howard Lyle
Mitchell, at the home of her mother, Mrs. R. R. Witt,
on Jackson Avenue. The wedding was quiet, only im-
mediate relatives being present.

 

S. E. Standrod, ’21, is manager of the Acheson

Harden Company, manufacturers of handkerchiefs,
Bluefield, W. Va.

 

David M. Barclay, 99, is now with the U. §.
Tarriff Board and is making his home at the Cairo
Hotel in Washington, D. C.

 

Robert F. Goodrick, ’25, was a recent visitor at
the Alumni Building. He is now with the Franklin
Limestone Co., of Nashville, Tenn.

 

Mr. William M. McElwee, ’79, has returned to
his home in Lexington after spending several months
in Florida.

 

PRIN TER@

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Jarman’s, Incorporated

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

[ 30 ]

to

’ ao hey , rn
oe Ie White a,
od MP PRIYA Cis CY,
eater th 47) O84 .
(Ph eran Hats
M Ae Wee fy A
SMa TAC.
Saran anna ae ‘
ny UA A CSE
y; Sune e0) hy 8

’ |

ay “
ae

Li
rt) bY AT

CAAe,
it h
4
7 >!
wes
oid te
PL a

a
vy ae
?

y iy ¢

,
Li

cs oc8
on ayy pS .
aay J y

ee

t .
ay)
ie ae

by a
ari yrs i
Bhai 6%

a oes Wide

EAM per AY

ea” st

wis

i .
es a f
+

2 : b
ye - « ay

cra $3 a AL
i s

Veuee ot eat

es
a)
vf
DNS

PR en
al
ae

ei ae 4
wh

ey

eT
.

AAO
Peay?

‘oF, re i
Mh ‘3 oh kee
aa
r 7 et a ae bs i
4 " sys A

SAF
SANS Da
a 4 ee

‘

?
bat
ANG

1a

ie

Hi

un P Ht oo ;

o
a

b

ak
ne
or

a)

Bs

‘
2

ty
sr
oY

LAU
Fath Be Ue , 4 te y #3
S ators) CSAC
vs

+
ATS
fA

ih
"yi
in yf :
‘hs

Nit)
+ if

SO _—
xy,
a

Gant

Neste fj
ci aS KE

<s

ae

ms,
<—~N
“es

ay yey Lan ‘A f
aa Fab’

‘4
os
‘Ave
ae,
a

y Ghee:
FRE Jey we
Pane “yy Be
Jae e ;

7)

Eee er tt ee a
Ree Tr svi
ie

is
LP AP

‘ J

/ ae
- .

“iy
oe os
Ci

ri A DNS:
CASS MH
rane) ay

oes

a
ee
os

AES AO
‘ % xy

ba 8

oe > 4 bY ry,
ee Reh
ee
4 ty
eA
As

 

OAS
>
tech eanit
Ske how ia

Fae Vv oA /
rea
SR ky
/ ee

ve
Aa it ceva Gi st
esas Niet) te
ri} F TAL ;

A) atte ‘
: Si f
tas

Pk
PS Hind O).
oy RSS ep an

Beatie PEAR
lie qe +.
« . » ~~ ,’
Etat airy

¢; Ne) A)
Y, wis ses

ee
i bP

,/@
4
—™

ate

ae s* UAE

ian! etl M2

wt Ree Neary

it ye Pt se r aA Pete AY?
~ ; ’ noe 08

y atheros: oh Dee

a a,

x Seed
wine
~«

~ a tote

‘

t
$39 :

‘

*

SAMA eS?

Laat.
SIR

aN oY AL

«

ENE

Se

\ ‘
CAL aoe
eo AAT Y

RS 3 PAG ite:

>
¢ AY
(o.4 al
~~
Pada

ty

rm

as
ry

= 2
=

2H

4

~
ky, * a
xy , ~ 4 :
me Ay. ; Me } ~ 4 AS
PTR) wilh , i + i st av by P44 ~ ik 4“; \ REET ris in cs eit ¥, ) rhe i mee Te
oe SSE “es itz A de and } <meta , ere ¢ ' a : i 5) tY aye ‘ 4 of? .~, Vea nhl BS pit eng
ESA SY moe 0t See Nes ? rai aye “2 pd Wy ry roent Mav editns Ae SOLE AAR EEA
Niall IN AA : “ ata Ve ; a 4 4s tobi? Ee OY > ae AS t NSEC ESSN) Vee KR Aah
7 ‘ « - ov ihe? TAY , 4
Naan > . ‘
Ree Sk ; ALS leo Re 5
} were an ; ; oy teres sy,
ou Show as ’ ’ .
: . ‘

» Cie ik >
Se BUNA
AUS SBR
yen

a yy z

x Oe
>
ST 27 4 ; . ‘ VDA ‘
uve y lar i eet Ys Qa ao mats i Si J Y . 2h Oa SLES Oe Caatae hy
RA)? “ec R ; f br? the M tent ase AA eh eA he sf ie Aer? es % uate
FS te? ‘ ‘ Ane 1) ‘ ONS wrt. 4 7 eel
Reta fe) ELA" Sane h TD. oe nde CY - . % vou is ; PAR RAL re at oy HMAC a4

if Mal
* ;

x, 4
+ ¥ PN + J
G

AX ty P ‘ :
SCOR ASS LEE aah ie
PROT . sa
wy }

f PP a US St
veo V8 :
Sie > te
PRL ao BRP
VIA RIS Pe a eae

A ¥ TA
Yet 4 ~ > xX leq

r
A
y
; i NTIVe. 4)
APR ei A eee ‘*~

 

