MAY
1940

©

Al

ee

a * “ , 7
Tc eee oe “"y

ee Lena
ee ee oi
ee

era
3

mni Magazine

Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

nen ee ee nen ee en een en en eden eee eee ee eden ee eden ee eee

'S LETTER ?

 

nin.illttar..ilt..illtus,..ill.,illu...iilu.illu,.illtus,.ilrs,.l.lt.illas,.lu.ils..ils.ilsilli.if:illgzzsltrzzlld

 

 

 

 

 

= = = i |

D % O 1

"a OS Bae see
St oS oo

cy 3 c > Bees
Bee Meee

oe ee FE eS
508 ee S it od
S YL % re 4
a he GF
= € gee SS en

oa a ° © x |

~& - |

= Tere 8 pm |
<x ee

rc

ea }

> {

< {

.

i lll lll lll ll ll lll ll lll lll ll ll ll ln cn ce dl tiem time det _dte_te_t_t_d_d_in_t_ in _ bp bp bb bb DDD

 

 

 

Appalachian

Homer Jones, Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee
Arkansas

James H. Penick, care of W. B. Worthen Co.,

Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta, Georgia

Bruce Woodruff, Healey Building
Baltimore, Maryland

A. H. Chandler, 301 Edgevale Road
Birmingham, Alabama

John F. Hendon, 1615 North Third Avenue

Central Kentucky
Joe Arnold, Lexington
Charleston, West Virginia
John H. Thomas, Security Building
Chattanooga, Tennessee
C. R. Avery
Chicago, Illinois
Dr. George W. Schnath, 734 Milburn Street,
Evanston, Il.

Cincinnati, Ohi
Alfred pertain 2500 Observatory Road

Charlotte, North Carolina

Philip F. Howerton, 338 Hempstead Court
Covington, ¥ Virginia

R.

Psowe hey Valley

C. Wells Little, Md.
Danville, Virginia

R. P. Sanford
Detroit, Michi

Dr. Edward Lyons, care of Parke Davis Co.
Florida West Coast

John Bell, Tampa, Fla.
Gulf Stream

Judge Paul D. Barnes, Miami, Fla.
Houston, Texas

T. D. Anderson, Gulf Building
Jacksonville, Florida

Rhydon Latham, Florida National Bank Bldg.
Lynchburg, Virginia

Tom Torrey
Louisville, Kentucky

George E. Burks, Commercial Building
Memphis, Tennessee

J. Milledge Nail, 1808-11 Exchange Building
New York, New York

Edward W. Lee, 175 Fifth Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana

Elmore Dufour Slidell, Louisiana
Norfolk, Virginia

Leonard Davis, Citizens Bank Building
Northern Louisiana

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport, La.
North Texas

Gaylord J. Stone, Ft. Worth, Texas
Parkersburg, West Virginia

E. B. Pennybacker
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Frank T. Bready, 58 W. Upsal Street
Piedmont

Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building
Pocenontes Club

. L. Tyree, Bluefield, W. Va.
Richmond, Virginia
Dr. R. W. Fowlkes, Professional Building

Roanoke, Virginia

Ear) A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Rockingham County

W. H. Keister, Harrisonburg, Va.
San Antonio, Texas

Albert Steves III
Southern California

Louis K. Koontz, University of California, Los

Angeles, California
St. Louis, Missouri

E. H. Bacon, 2651 Olive Street
Tri-State

J. W. Fitchett, Huntington, W. Va.
Upper-Potomac

L. Leslie Helmer, Cumberland, Md.
Washington, D.C.

. W. Hynson, American Security Building

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

$2.50 a Year

 

Vol. XV MAY 1940 No. 4

 

WORE cant coos costa Harry K. (Cy) Youne, 1917

Managing Editor....GEORGE STUYVESANT JACKSON

ae

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Prem ONe 55... GES Josern T. Lyxgs, 1909
Secretary........ccccccee Harry K. (Cy) Younce, 1917
F VARBNP OE... 2505 ods teh oes Sruart Moors, 1914

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
W. Carro_tt MEaApE, 1925
ALLEN Morcan, 1929
Joun Bett Towixt, 1929

Dr. RicHarpD FowrxkeEs, 1915

 

 

 

Contents for May 1940

PAGE
Paul McNeel Penick, 1867-1940 (President's Page).............. 3
Reheat Ais ee OE ihaciictiaes hameedi tenis odotiens a
Tie, SOOTAIRS : FRUNCE PAUIIN his see scil isvvncjnenes dices cactdeoensdns eal Bas 5
Se SN iss cade thes Shccddict dein Aces cccepeareray com 6
TOE IO CE ei | das ct esi aie ees: 9
Local Alumni Association Notes. .................::ccccsscccsscsseeeseessseens 1]

in ee i ee Mi eal 15

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Paul McNeel Penick, 1867-1940

(The President’s Page)

AUL McNeEeEt Penick was born in Concord, North
D Carolina, October 25, 1867. Six years later his father,
Dr. Daniel A. Penick, accepted a call to the New Mon-
mouth Presbyterian Church in Rockbridge County ; from
that time forward the family resided in
Rockbridge County or in Lexington. Paul
Penick was graduated from Washington
and [ee in 1887. He taught for a while in
Texas, engaged in business in Richmond,
returned to Lexington in 1895, was grad-
uated from our law school in 1896. Mean-
time, in 1895 he married Miss Frances
Kdmondson Monroe. He was elected to
the University Board of Trustees on June
14, 1910, and on July 1, 1913, was made
treasurer of the University, succeeding
John L,. Campbell. Mr. Penick held this
position until his death, March 19, 1940.

His relationship with the University
was characterized by an uncommon variety
of significant service and by an equally uncommon de-
votion. There is no one term or phrase that adequately
suggests the manifold responsibilities he accepted in be-
half of the institution, or the types of contribution that
he made to its welfare. In every capacity he was alert and
energetic with a loyalty that transcended even his care
for his personal concerns. No institution ever had a more
faithful or more competent official.

In the community at large he was signally useful. He
found time to direct one of the largest commercial enter-
prises in Lexington; he gave his effort as well as his
thought and influence to various forms of community
projects; he was active in almost very phase of the un-
selfish endeavors that go to make community welfare; he
was a leader among the forces that promoted the religious
and spiritual life of the town and the community, and in-
deed in his particular fellowship throughout the State
and the South.

If one quality of Mr. Penick’s character should be

 

singled out for special notice, it would probably be his
capacity for true friendship. He had an authentic inter-
est, almost a passion, for the happiness of a great circle
of friends. He could not endure the unhappiness of even
a casual acquaintance without heroic ef-
forts to ameliorate it. Toward a number
of people, a much larger number than
anybody would suspect, he extended the
active interest of his friendship. It was
not a careless good wish or even a mo-
mentary generosity that represents his
interpretation of friendship. He took on
his sympathetic heart and his sensitive
spirit the burdens of those whom he called
friend. I have not known a man in my
career who carried, or tried to carry, more
burdens of other people than did Paul
Penick.

Something should be said certainly of
his bright, optimistic spirit. There was
about him a certain child-like gaiety and spontaneity that
never grew old. Without a touch of cynicism or sarcasm,
he had an extraordinary sense of life's comedy. He was
good company; to be in his companionship for a little
while was to feel a kind of happiness that brightened the
spirits of all in the group. It consoles those who loved him
to think not only of his sweetness and not only of his un-
selfishness and not only of his tireless activity; we re-
member the integrity of the man, the high ideals that
governed his life, and the allegiance of his great heart to
the highest purpose of his faith. Seeking to share that
faith with him we cannot think of him in the past tense.
His personality and his influence will surely live.

Peentse bee Madr ii

President

[3]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Return to Finals This Year!

HERE is an essay of Robert Benchley’s about an alum-
oe return to college, part of which goes as follows:
“Going back to the old college town is something of an
ordeal in case you want to know. You think it’s going to
be all right and you have a little dream-picture of how
glad the boys will be to see

appearance of the main street has been changed to suit
automobiles; a great many local figures whom you re-
member, have died; the old faculty is pretty largely re-
placed by a new faculty; nobody paints ‘Old George”
any more, and the bell is rung by electricity.

But there are also a good

 

you. ‘Weekins, 1914 you
will say, and there will be
a big demonstration ... a

happy crowd of boys will
rush pell-mell out of the rec-
itation hall and down to the
Inn to take the horses from
your carriage (or put horses
into it) and drag you all
around the campus. . .
“You go to the frater-
nity house... . A lone jun-

10:00 p. m.

10:00 a. m.
ior who is hanging around 2:00 p.m. Meeting of Alumni Council
in the front room says ‘How 4:00 p.m. Dansant
a 10? C tis 8:00 p. m.
do you do? Come on in,’ an 9:00 p.m
excuses himself immediate-
ly. The old place looks about dent's Home
y 10:00 p. m.
the same, except that an
odd-looking banner on the Friday, June Seventh
wall says ‘1930,’ there be- 8:30 a.m. Meeting of Alumni Board
ing no such year. A 10:45 a. m.
6 -ieege hic ics and Graduates
of young men come in and, 11:00 0 den
seeing you, go right out (Address by the President)
again. Welcome back to the 12:45 p. m.
ld | Weekins !” 2:00 p. m.
old house, \VWeekins ¢ Chapel, Washington College
Now a lot of alumni, we 4:00 p. m. Crew Boat Races
imagine. h | ‘“ ; 6:30 p.m. Class Reunion Dinners
gine, have been “ Week 11:00 p.m. Final Ball

ins, 1914,” for it is inevita-
ble that the old college won’t

 

PROGRAM

For the 191st Finals of Washington and Lee
June 5, 6, 7, 1940

 

Wednesday, June Fifth

Interfraternity-Sigma Ball

Thursday, June Sixth

Meeting of University Board of Trustees

Alumni Smoker — Student Union Building |
. President’s Reception to Graduates, Trus- |
tees, Visiting Alumni and Parents—Presi- |

Senior-Alumni Ball |

Academic Procession of Faculty, Trustees
Commencement Exercises—Lee Chapel

Alumni Luncheon—University Dining Hall
Meeting of Alumni, Incorporated—Old

6:00 a.m. “College Friendships”

 

many things that are just the
same, and perhaps they are
the ones that count. Wash-
ington and Lee is still sy-
nonymous with hospitality.
Students don’t walk out on
“Weekins, 1914,” because
they’re genuinely glad to see
| him. The faculty may be
| largely a new one, but it is
no less anxious to see you
and have the pleasure of en-
tertaining you. The North
River still runs in its lei-
surely fashion underneath a
covered bridge, even though
| the latter is no longer used,
and there will be the annual
boat race on the river, as
well as all the other annual
events that you remember
so well at former Finals.
Your old friends and
classmates will be here, es-
pecially if you are having a
reunion. They will probably
have changed in face and
figure but not very much as
people. They share with you

 

 

 

be the same as it was when

any particular Weekins went to school there. For any
alumnus who graduated from Washington and Lee prior
to 1936, the old place will be, in fact, quite different. The
main buildings were all torn apart and put together again ;
there is a new Tucker Hall; there is a Student Union;
the Annex is gone; the Chapel was repainted this spring,
and Traveller has been put in a closet. Or, if you went
through your Finals any number of years before that,
there are even more alarming changes. There are a lot of
handsome fraternity houses scattered about; the whole

a part of your life which
may seem to be dead, but a part which is worth bringing
back to life. If you feel that you are getting old, Finals
can bring back your youth.

Lexington and Washington and Lee want to welcome
every possible alumnus this year. Don’t forget that this
is the hundredth anniversary of the founding of your
Alumni Association. It calls for a celebration, and a good
celebration calls for the attendance of every man who can
possibly make it. Take a few days off in June instead of
some other time and come to Finals. You won't regret it.

[4]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The College

AST year, as some readers will remember, President
be Gaines wrote his “President's Page” on the subject
of the privately-endowed college and the dangers it faces
from the competition of institutions highly subsidized by
state or national funds. This year, as a result of a decision
reached by the Board of Trus-
tees at their April meeting,
Washington and Lee is going to
demonstrate that this particular
privately-endowed college can
stand on its own feet and build
what it needs in the face of the
millions of dollars that are pour-
ing into state universities from
the WPA and other agencies.

Washington and Lee cannot
afford, for example, to build a
library at this time, but para-
doxically, Washington and Lee
absolutely cannot afford not to
build a library. A library build-

ing, unlike new dormitories,
which will be self-liquidating

and thus an investment. will be

a drain on our too-slim_ re-
sources. But while other schools
undergo what may prove to be
a dangerous expansion through
the aid and

consequent state control, Wash-

medium of state
ington and Lee continues in the
faith that its alumni and friends
will realize what is needed and
make it financially possible for
this institution to continue its

grand tradition and the future education of youth.

To explain further, on April 11 the Trustees passed
four very important and progressive measures. First they
decided that the present dormitories should be rebuilt and
enlarged to the tune of $250,000. They then discussed the
shortcomings of the Carnegie Library, on which about
$140,000 will be expended as a beginning towards making
it large enough, and adequate to modern needs. The third
item of business was an agreement to buy the White farm
which adjoins Wilson Field to the north and eventually
convert it into an intramural athletic field. Finally, a new
member was elected: Homer A. Holt, 1918 (“Rocky”’ to

 

Homer A. Holt, 1918, New Trustee

Builds Again

many alumni friends), the Governor of West Virginia.
The present dormitories, it will have to be admitted,
are pretty bad. After having withstood the onslaughts of
many student generations since 1904 (and there 1s noth-
ing much more devastating to property than the average
college student) the rooms and
halls have become barren, un-
attractive, rickety, and a distinct
fire-risk. The improvements on
the interior, according to Frank
J. Gilliam, who, as student
dean, has been in charge of the
dormitory planning, will be made
towards durability rather than
luxury. Fireproofing and sound-
proofing will be emphasized.
The

present

the
not be

outside walls of

structures will
materially changed, except that
anew wing will connect Graham
with Lees at the Washington
Street end, leaving a U-shaped
building with the new part as
the old

arms. The campus road will be

base and structures as
moved to a position between

Graham and the gymnasium,
the present one being replaced
by grass and brick walks. The
new wing will have an archway
leading from the court that will
be formed by the reconstructed
halls. As a result of this and the
new library, the physical ap-
pearance of this end of the
campus should be made much more attractive.

The need of a better library building has been long
recognized, for although books, not buildings, are what
make a library, and though the University possesses an
adequate collection ; yet the present Carnegie Library was
put up at a time when library construction was not what
it is now. Only the stacks are at present fireproof; the
reading room is hopelessly crowded ; the plan of the whole
is inefficient, and there are worlds of waste space.

‘To correct these faults it is planned that wings be
added to the present building, which will itself become

(Continued on page 24)

[5]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ye Olde College Bell

By Les~tre LYLE CAMPBELL, 1887

HE writer left college in 1887. In 1938, he returned to
Toe his home in the old town of Lexington, Virginia.
Recently, while looking over old papers, treasured for
half a century, he came across an old sheet of paper, on
which was the poem below. The poem was written by a
student, “Kay Wi,” otherwise, Will Field of Kentucky.
The poem was first published in the Southern Collegian,
in plain type, in March, 1890. The editor of the Collegian
in 1889 and 1890, Richard B. Williams, drew a sketch of
the bell and poem, made copies of it on his hectograph,
and sent one to the writer, who filed it away with other
papers. This is the poem:

YE Otp CoLLeEcE BELL

Thou good old college bell,
Thy race is run;

No more they clanging tones will swell
O’er Lexington,

And call the drowsy boys to morning praise,

Or mark the hours, as thou did’st in bygone days ;
Thy labors done.

Adown the vale of years
In coming times,
There'll float unto our list’ning ears
Thy ancient chimes,
And bring to us these sunny hours of old
With all the half-sad sweetness of a story told
In plaintive rhymes.
Kay W1
a k 3 a Be 3 *

oe?

hou good old college bell,

Thy race is run,”
made a deep impression on one who had heard daily the
old bell’s mellow tones during his student years in the
eighties.

“But where is the old bell?” he asked. No one could
tell him. Some said there never had been a bell in the
tower of the Lee Chapel. But he knew better, for he had
seen and heard faithful Tom Hughes ring the bell in the
Chapel tower all through the eighties. And one night, in
the session of 1882-1883, the writer and Clifford Cabell
Dunn left their rooms in the old “Castle,” and climbed
into the Chapel tower, in the utter darkness, and wrapped

and tied paper about the clapper of the bell, in hopes of
a holiday next day. The paper wrapped about the clapper
was a copy of the Christian Observer, on which was the
name of the writer's father, printed on a yellow label.
Tom Hughes removed the paper from the clapper in time
for the first class bell, but not for the Chapel service.
Good old Tom Hughes, if he saw the name on the muf-
fling paper, he never reported the culprits. And now, for
the first time, is revealed the dreadful secret kept hidden
for many years.

Some people in Lexington told us recently that the
old bell was still in the Chapel tower, and that it was
rung only for exercises in the Chapel proper, while the
bell in the main college building was rung for the regular
classes. Others said the bell was still in the Chapel, but
was cracked and could not be rung. A climb into the
Chapel tower revealed the fact that the old bell was gone!
But where?

Our collegemates of the eighties are nearly all gone
toward the setting sun, and no one seemed left to tell us
the tale of the old bell. In reply to a recent inquiry about
the bell, the author of the poem, “Kay Wi,” now Judge
William H. Field, of Louisville, Kentucky, wrote:

“The bell at Washington and Lee University evokes
hazy memories and certain vague, intangible things
which I have been trying, without avail, to capture. I re-
member my verses of 1890 quite well. But, queerly
enough, I have not the faintest recollection as to the oc-
casion. Several mates of my time and earlier have been of
no assistance.”

In an effort to bring back the college past, we re-
called memories handed down by our father, who, when
a student in the 1840's, lived in the house that used to
stand where the president’s house is now located. In those
days the janitor, with bell in hand, wakened the students
who roomed in the one-story “Cat Tails,” where the New-
comb Hall and the Law Building now stand, and the
other students in “Paradise’’ and Purgatory,” in the
north and south ends of the main college building. The
students at the call of the early bell went to Chapel and
to their first recitation, and then return for breakfast.
Through the day, the hand-bell called the students to
their classes. The use of the hand-bell continued until
1871.

In the Southern Collegian of May 6, 1871, is a letter

| 6 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

   

ee a an

7 *
Pant §

.
s
>

 

 

The present bell, temporarily out of its tower in 1936

from a student who signs himself **B’’. In this letter he
says: “Early on a pleasant, balmy morning in 1869, I de-
parted from Rock City, destined for Washington Col-
lege. At Junction S (Alabama), I went on to Lynchburg.
[ left on a packet boat for Lexington, reached there at 9
a.m. At commencement I returned home. Again I entered
upon my collegiate duties. | soon secured myself in a
Paradise, and when | heard the sound of Lindsay’s bell,
it seemed as if I had been absent only a week, and it will
ever ring in my ears as a token of the reminiscences of
the haleyon days of 1870.’ The hand-bell ringer men-
tioned in this letter was Lindsay Reid, a Negro janitor
under General R. I. Lee.

To trace the college bell-ringing further, we turned to
the college records in the ‘Treasurer’s office. There we
found the following items that bear upon the history of
the old Chapel bell:

“Washington College, September 9, 1870.
To the Trustees of Washington College.
Gentlemen :

[ have the honour to submit to you the accompanying
extracts from the proceedings of the Faculty of Wash-

ington College at their meeting on the 5th instant, in order
that they may be considered by you at your present ses-
sion, should you deem it advisable.
Very resp’y,
Your obt. serv’t,

R. E. Ler”

I“xtracts from proceedings of Faculty:

‘The committee to which was referred a resolution of
the Board of Trustees, directing the Faculty to secure a
fuller attendance on the services at Chapel, if practicable,
made the following report :

“That efforts be made to secure a suitable organ for
the Chapel and also a clock and bell for the college ; and
that the
whether these are not so nearly necessary to regular at-

Joard of Trustees be recommended to consider

tendance on Chapel exercises, as to render it desirable to
procure them at once.

“The committee on producing a college bell, reported
a recommendation to the Board of Trustees to purchase
for the college a bell to weigh not less than 1,000 pounds.
The report was adopted.

“IT. M. Lercnu, Clerk of the Faculty.

“It is estimated that the bell will cost about $500.”
“To the Board of Trustees
“Of Washington and Lee University, March 14, 1871.

“The undersigned committee on Grounds and Build-
ings, to whom were referred papers from the Faculty on
the subject of purchasing a bell and clock and an organ,
beg to report that they have considered the subject and
are of the opinion that a bell is one of the pressing wants
of the institution, that should be supplied at once—no
respectable institution of learning, as they are advised,
being similarly destitute. A bell of four hundred pounds
weight, which would be something larger than the South-
ern Methodist Church bell of this place, is deemed of suf-
ficient size. The prime cost of such a bell is estimated at
from $200 to $250, the mountings, which are extra, will
cost about $30. The aggregate cost including mounting,
freight, elevating and hanging is estimated not to exceed
$300. An appropriation of this sum is therefore recom-
mended for the purchase of a bell to be expended under
the direction of the Faculty. A clock and an organ is not
considered indispensable, and an outlay under the present
state of finances therefore would be injudicious. Your
committee therefore report adversely to their purchase
and ask to be discharged from further consideration
thereof.

J. K. EvmMonpson, J. McD. ALEXANDER,

“Commuttee.”’

[7 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“Washington and Lee University, March 16, 1871.
‘Pursuant to adjournment last night, the Board of
Trustees met. In respect to the paper presented by Gen-
eral (R. E.) Lee, from the Faculty (marked A), the
committee recommend that the Faculty appoint a com-
mittee to procure and fix up for the use of the University
a bell, estimated not to exceed the sum of $300.”
And so it was decreed that henceforth the college

.

should be among the “respectable institutions,” no longer
destitute of a proper bell.

In the Southern Collegian of May 20, 1871, was this
item: “The university bell (no final e) has arrived, and
workmen are now putting it in position in the belfry of
the Chapel. We are waiting impatiently for its first note.

*P. S. We hear the first note as we go to press.”

In the issue of the Collegian of June 3, 1871, is this
note: “The new bell is quite a success. It has as rich and
clear a tone as we have ever heard.”

The bell that General R. EK. Lee sought to have placed
in the Chapel he built was never heard by him; yet his
son, General Custis Lee, for nearly twenty years heard
the bell in the Lee tower call students and faculty to
prayer and lecture.

In the year 1889, the old bell became cracked, and its
passing inspired the threnody :

‘Thou good old College bell,
Thy race is run.”

A minute from the meeting of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board of Trustees, January 6, 1890, re-
cords that:

“The ‘Treasurer was directed to order a 1000-pound
bell (the old bell having become cracked) from Messrs.
Meneely and Company of West Troy, New York, to cost
in accordance with their letter of February 27, 1889,
$286 less $110 for the old bell, and to have it placed in
the cupola of the Main Building.”

The new bell was hung in the cupola of the Main Col-
lege Building in 1890, and the date is cast in the bell. Un-
til 1936, this bell was rung by ropes pulled by hand, from
the second floor of the Main Building, from a point now
within the present restored Chapel room. Since 1936 the

bell has been rung by electrical means.

An extract from a recent letter from the bell-found-
ers, Meneely and Company, is of interest:

“We have your letter of recent date requesting infor-
mation of the bells of Washington and Lee University.
“The first bell of which we have record was made in

the year 1871 and weighed 600 pounds.

“The second bell ( present bell) was shipped from here

January 11, 1890, and weighed 1,000 pounds; it was
equipped with full church bell swinging fixtures.

“Mr. John L. Campbell was treasurer of the Univer-
sity and placed the order for the 1890 bell.

“The bell is a pure bronze bell-metal made of seventy-
eight parts of copper and twenty-two parts of tin.”

‘The old cracked bell was returned to the foundry, and
was probably melted and incorporated into the 1890 bell.”

And so, still across the years, the old bell of 1871 calls
to us, and

‘‘Adown the vale of years,
In coming times,
There'll float unto our listening ears
Thy ancient chimes.”

 

New Arrivals

Wer have heard recently of several potential members
of Washington and Lee classes of such unbelievable dates
as 1960, and of their sisters who will probably adorn the
ancy Dress Balls at those remote times—if the dance
committees haven't run out of ideas for new figures by
that period. We heartily congratulate all the new parents.

sLAYNEY T. WacsHE, 1927, and Mrs. WALSHE an-
nounced the arrival of a daughter, Jane, on the nineteenth
of March at Atlantic City, New Jersey.

Dr. AND Mrs. HAywarp FF. Day “added a new Day
to the calendar” on March 12, and named the Day, Hay-
ward Francis, Jr. Mr. Day is a graduate of the class

of 1929.

To Mr. AND Mrs. Roperr B. McCracken, on
March 11, was born a son, David Bergen. Mr. Me-
Cracken’s class was 1930.

CHANDLER W. Gorvon, 1931, recently entered his son,
Thomas Phelps (who was born to him and Mrs. Gordon
on August 24, 1939), in the class of 1959 at Washington
and Lee.

Rkopnert E. Frecp, 1934, and Mrs. Field announced
the arrival of Robert E., Jr., on March 14, in Miami.

Mr. AND Mrs. JAMES STERRETT Woops, JR., an-
nounced the birth of James Sterrett Woods, III, on I*eb-
ruary 26 in Lewistown, Pennsylvania. Mr. Woods’ class
is 1935.

 

Dr. G. Warpo DuNNINGTON, 1928, was _ recently
clected president of the La Crosse, Wisconsin, area or-
ganization of Phi Beta Kappa.

[8 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Spring Sports

By Bup Lévy, 1942

ae tack, tennis, golf, lacrosse, and crew—those

are the sports among which Washington and Lee's

spring interests are divided. Taking a brief look at each,
we find:

BASEBALL: Cap’n Dick Smith’s diamond squad, hard
hit by graduation, has won three of its four home games
at this writing, but its annual spring
tour of Virginia and North Carolina
was a disastrous one and the team’s
books, as a result, show lots of red.
ive setbacks were sustained on the
week-long journey.

The Smithmen opened their 1940
campaign by downing Ohio State’s
Wilson Field.

Veteran Bob Gregerson’s sterling one-

touring outfit, 5-0, on

hit mound performance featured the

curtain-raiser. Roanoke handed the

Generals a setback on the Lexington
diamond a couple of days later, and
then came the aforementioned spring

trip, with successive losses to William

and Mary (7-5), Richmond (7-2),
North Carolina State (7-3), Duke
(19-0), and North Carolina (18-1).

All in all, the Generals were outhit,
61-21, and kicked in with a total of 19
errors during the five-game jaunt. The Generals hit the
comeback trail upon their return to Lexington, and, after
having games with Michigan and Virginia wiped out by
the elements, gained revenge on two teams—William and
Mary and North Carolina State. Jack Mangan’s ninth-
inning home run with two men on base gave the Smith-
men a 9-7 verdict over the Indians, while a ten-hit barrage
and effective pitching by Dick Smith, Jr., and Pres Brown
brought a 7-5 nod over State.

Cap'n Dick found himself with half a dozen positions
to be filled by newcomers when the time for baseball rolled
around, so the pre-season outlook was less cheery than
the results to date have been. Gregerson was the only
regular on hand from last year’s mound staff. lea Booth,
who saw service as a relief hurler last year, and Dick
Smith, Jr., were back, but the Cap’n hardly had enough
of a staff for the stiff schedule which was to come. Foot-
baller Brown, Sophomore Jack Fisher, and J. C. Snidow

 

Harold R. Levy, 1942

were added, but the pitching corps is still not what is
ought to be.

Other veterans on hand to give Cap'n Dick a lift were
Shortstop Ronnie Thompson, Third Baseman Bob Gary,
First Baseman Jack Dangler, and Outfielder Bob Keim.

TRACK: Bad weather prevented the track team from
opening its season with William and
Mary on April 13, so the squad, at this
writing, has not been tested in com-
petition. But Coach Jack Hennemier,
who took over the tutoring reins when
the veteran Forest Fletcher was forced
to go into temporary retirement be-
cause of ill-health, has a wealth of ma-
terial on hand and prospects are good.

Hennemier has at least one veteran
performer for every event. Co-Captain
Charlie Curl will lead the Generals in
the 100- and 220-yard dashes.
Yeomans and Ed Samara, up from last

sud

year's freshman team, are slated to go
with Curl in the century, while Russ
Browning, another of last year’s year-
lings, is scheduled to see action in the
220. Veteran Bill Murray and New-
comer Bob Rice are Hennemier’s best
quarter-milers, while Cliff Muller, a
letterman, and Sophomore Bill Jennings lead the half-
milers. A pair of veterans, Jimmy McConnell, and George
Murray, are on hand for the mile, while Co-Captain Mike
Crocker, Walt Harrod, and Frank Martin are capable
two-milers.

A couple of lettermen named Bill—Soule and Gwyn—
are available for service in the hurdle events, and Yeo-
mans and Browning are good prospects in the low barrier
class.

Gwyn leads the high jumpers, while Charlie Gilbert
and George I*oote, both of last year’s squad, are on hand
tor pole vaulting. Samara, Soule, Yeomans, and Sims
Trueheart are best bets among the broad jumpers.

Veterans Herb Friedman and Tyke Bryan will toss
the javelin for the Generals this spring, while Footballer
Dick Boisseau is on hand to give Hennemier power in the

shotput and discus events. Hank Woods, a sophomore,

[9 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

has shown up well in the latter event, and should come
in handy there.

Dual meets with Richmond, V. P. I., West Virginia,
and Duke are on the Generals’ track slate, while the State
and Southern Conference meets will wind up the season
on May 11 and 18, respectively.

TENNIS: Victory in three of their first four matches
got Coach Ollinger Crenshaw’s netmen off to a good
start. The Generals dropped their opener to Virginia, 7-2,
but bounced back to take Wake Forest, George Wash-
ington, and William and Mary in quick succession. The
Indians fell, 7-0, while both of the other triumphs came
by 7-2 counts.

Playing in the number one singles position for Cren-
shaw’s crew this season is Dick Pinck, football and basket-
ball star. Willie Washburn and Peck Robertson, both
veterans, hold down the number two and three spots,
while Jack Mallory, up from last year’s freshman outfit,
Bill Douglas, a junior, and Dick Spindle, another of last
year’s yearlings, round out the singles corps. Robertson
and Washburn, Mallory and Spindle and Pinck and Doug-
las started the season in the doubles lineup.

Gor: Cy Twombly’s linksmen appear to be in for a
good year. They dropped their first match of the sea-
son, a hastily-arranged affair with Ohio State, 5-4, but
came back a few days later to knock off a highly-touted
University of Pennsylvania squad, 6-3, then drubbed
William and Mary, 16%-1%.

Led by Captain Earl Morgan, the team is made up of

Mac Wing, Lup Avery, Ed Brown, Jack Jones, and
Claude Walker.

LACROSSE: Recognized as a minor sport just before
the season opened, Captain Johnny Alnutt’s stickmen
opened a ten-game schedule at Annapolis March 30 when
they dropped a close, 5-4 decision to Navy’s “B” aggre-
gation. The Generals, defending co-champions of the
Dixie League, bowed to Swarthmore’s usually-potent ar-
ray, 4-0, in Lexington on April 13, but came back two
days later to trounce the West Chester State ‘Teachers
College club, 7-0.

Alnutt, who gave Washington and Lee its first la-
crosse team four years ago, and Skippy Henderson, vet-
eran midfielder, are leaders of the current “ten.” Hender-
son accounted for nine of the Generals’ eleven markers in
their first three games.

Crew: Handicapped by the sudden loss of four vet-
eran oarsmen, who were unable to make the trip, Wash-
ington and Lee’s crew dipped their colors to Rollins Col-
lege in a race at Winter Park, Florida, during the spring
vacation. Rollins, in coming home ahead of the Generals,
clipped six seconds from their home course record. Wash-
ington and Lee finished a strong second to Tabor in a
practice run in Florida a couple of days before the meet-
ing with Rollins.

Rowing for the Generals in Florida were W. O.
Shropshire, Stu Hunt, Brad Dunson, Doug House, Art
Smith, Jim Willis, Alex Bratenhal, and Bill Martin.

 

[10]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Shay” .
Cincinnati

A VERY successful meeting of the chapter in Cincin-
nati was held at the Metropole Hotel on March 11. Roger
Bear, retiring president, presided and introduced as guest
speakers, Cy Young, alumni secretary, and Frank J. Gil-
liam, Washington and Lee dean of men, who informed
the group about the present state of the college.

Three important items of business were carried out.
New officers were elected, with Alfred Kreimer as presi-
dent, Spence Kerkow as vice-president, and Blake Dock
as secretary and treasurer. Plans were then formulated
for a joint meeting this spring with the alumni of the
University of Virginia. Finally, the chair was instructed
to frame a resolution deploring the twenty-five cent ad-
mission to Lee Chapel and suggesting that an effort be
made to solicit an endowment fund sufficient to defray
the expense of caretakers and guides.

After the business was concluded, the meeting broke
up into a rehash of the good old days at Washington
and Lee.

Among those who attended were: F. J. Gilliam, H. K.
Young, Dr. C. J. Hudson, Robert M. Lacy, H. J. Mc-
larlan, Clyde Hoge, Walter McDonald, Walter C. Pres-
ton, Harry Gassman, Spence Kerkow, Blake Dock, John
G. Tomlin, J. Richard McConnell, Robert L. Early, Jr.,
Witham Smith, John W. Henzies, Lee O'Dell, Alfred
Allen, John S. Hatfield, Richard Dielz, Charles D. Tolley,
Koger J. Bear, and Al Kreimer.

 

New Orleans

THe New Orleans chapter met on March 4 at Kolb’s
Kestaurant. The meeting was held chiefly to honor Presi-
dent Gaines whose fine talk seemed to the listeners to
bring the Washington and Lee campus to New Orleans.

At the dinner, Elmore Dufour, president, presided,
while Dr. D. S. Anderson, 1890, former president of Tu-
lane University, introduced the speaker.

The following were among those who attended: John
Tucker, of Shreveport, Louisiana; Robert Ewing, Jr., Ed
Tolivar, O. H. Breidenbach, William M. Gray, Elmore
Dufour, Kugene Nabors, Bonner Gladney, Dr. Douglas
Anderson, Harry M. Butler, Dr. Murrel Kaplan, Waldo
B. Utley, William H. Fields, Jr., James Smithers, Jr.,
W. Morgan Gurley and W. W. Ogden, all of New
Orleans.

Houston

THE first meeting of the alumni in an area which
might be called Southeast ‘Texas was held at River Oaks
Country Club on the evening of ‘Tuesday, March 5, About
thirty alumni from Houston and nearby towns were pres-
ent. Dr. Gaines was the guest of honor and gave his usual
enchanting and stimulating address.

Of particular interest is the fact that present were two
alumni from Galveston, Dr. Edward Randall of the class
of 1879, and Judge William T. Armstrong of the class
of 1887. Dr. Randall spoke for twenty minutes on his
l.exington experience ,which dated back to 1869. He re-
members the funeral of General Lee and had many inter-
esting recollections of General G. W. Custis Lee. Judge
Armstrong also made some interesting remarks.

After the speechmaking there came up for discussion
the matter of forming an association of the alumni in this
area, and it was unanimously resolved that such an asso-
ciation be formed and that it hold annual meetings on
January 19 of each year. Thomas D. Anderson was
elected president of the association for the coming year,
and Mr. Thomas R. Hamilton of Texas A. and M. Col-
lege was elected secretary.

Among the alumni present at the dinner were: R. W.
Davis, Jr., Paul Kk. Daugherty, James H. Shively, Morris
H. Shively, Morris Atmas, Milton Morrison, George S.
Morrison, J. W. Garrow, Gaines T. Wallace, K. W. Den-
man, John D. Locke, Thomas Roberts, Allen Cunning-
ham, Kk. J. Fountain, Jr., James M. Tybes, Thomas R.
Hamilton, James R. Ruth, C. E. Kievlan, W. T. Arm-
strong, Dr. Kdward Randolph, Herman Hampton, Jeff
DD. Heffley, Jr., Homer EK. Henderson, John Maher, Wil-
ham D. Parker, If. A. Frommer, and Thomas D. Anderson.

 

Jacksonville

SECRETARY Cy Younc’s southern tour took him to
Jacksonville on February 27 for a meeting of the local
chapter at the George Washington Hotel. Among those
who gathered there that evening were:

Russell L.. Prink, Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Hutchin-
son, Mr. and Mrs. Herman Ulmer, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
B. Fozzard, Miney Myerson, Mr. and Mrs. Fred M.
Valz, Mr. and Mrs. John W. Ball, Mr. and Mrs. James
P. Hill, Mr. and Mrs. Rhydon C. Latham, Charles C.
Smith, Harry Godwin, Harry M. Wilson, Jr., C. L. Line-

[11]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

baugh, Robert M. Avent, Joe LeFils, E. Manny Rosen-
berg, W. S. Rosenberg, Edward C. Newson, Jr., Eli
Finkelstein, Willis M. Ball, Il, and Roland S. Freeman.

Although no business was transacted, Jack Ball, sec-
retary of the Jacksonville association reports that all pres-
ent enjoyed Cy’s talk and the usual social gathering of
alumni everywhere.

Rhydon Latham, president of the Jacksonville Chap-
ter, presided.

 

Florida West Coast

Axsou’ thirty-five alumni met on Washington’s Birth-
day in the Hillsboro Hotel in Tampa. Cy Young gave a
report of the association and alumni activities, and showed
motion pictures of the campus which proved to be of great
interest to the group.

The principal business of the meeting was the election
of officers, who are: John Bell, Tampa, president ; Charles
Allison, St. Petersburg, vice-president; O. Forrest Mc-
Gill, Lakeland, secretary; Howard P. Macfarlane, rep-
resentative of the chapter on the Alumni Council.

Guests attending in addition to the alumni were Dr.
Sherman, president of the University of Tampa; Mr.
Ralph Nicholson, one of the editors of Tampa Daily
Times; and E. D. Lambright, editor of the Tampa Morn-
ing Tribune.

Among the alumni in attendance were: Bruce F.
Gannaway, 1926, O. Forrest McGill, 1923, Asa R. Lar-
rick, 1907, Clyde H. Wilson, 1929, Charles Allison, John
Bell, 1921, J. Glen Evans, 1921, Wesley P. Jackson, 1911,
William H. Jackson, 1908, Howard P. Macfarlane, 1913,
K. I. McKay, 1904, Edwin K. Nelson, Jr., 1916, Robert
G. Nelson, 1914, Murray J. O’Berry, 1917, Charles H.
Ross, 1923, Edgar S. Struss, 1910, Russell H. ‘Tarr, 1906,
Henry C. Tillman, 1906, Charles Lykes, 1939, T. E.
Woodson, Paul L. Irons, Baynard Malone, William M.
McLeod, 1917, Charles E. Patillo, 1920, Ek. W. Richard-
son, 1927, Frank Smith, Wesley K. Timberlake, 1926,
C. Edmund Worth, 1916, Charles Hearon, and Bb. F.
Borchardt, 1909.

 

Birmingham

Arov’ thirty alumni from Birmingham and _ vicinity
met at the ‘Thomas Jefferson Hotel on the night of
March 1. W. J. Ruston introduced Dr. Gaines who was
the principal speaker, and whose talk was greatly enjoyed
by all. James Hendrix, president of the Birmingham as-
sociation presided.

San Antonio

On March 7 the San Antonio alumni heard with the
greatest pleasure an address by Presidnt Gaines on the
history of Washington and Lee since his induction into
office. It was a most successful occasion, held at the St.
Anthony Hotel with more than fifty-five present.

While in San Antonio Dr. Gaines made several other
speeches before interested groups, including the Texas
Military Institute, the Thomas Jefferson High School,
and the Peacock Military College. As a result of these
talks, according to Russell B. Wine, president of the San
Antonio Alumni Association, Dr. Gaines “‘left behind
more friends for himself and Washington and Lee than
one could imagine it possible for one human being to make
in such a short time.”

Some of those who came to the meeting were: Mr.
and Mrs. R. R. Witt, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Paschal, Mr.
and Mrs. Guenther Orsinger, Walter Lehr with his
mother and father, C. C. Wurzbach and Miss Whitesides,
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hillpe and daughter, Ed Downie and
his mother, Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Creigh, Jr., Erherd
Guenther, Mr. and Mrs. Harris Oppenheimer, Mr. and
Mrs. Wm. W. Palmer, J. L. Lytle, Jr., Tom J. Newton,
Jr., B. C. Harnisch, Joe Glass, Mr. and Mrs. Albert
Steves and son, Mr. and Mrs. Albert Steves, III, Mr.
and Mrs. Sam Steves, Walter Steves, Wm. Fowlkes, Mr.
and Mrs. Park Street, Mr. and Mrs. Russel B. Wine,
Dr. John V. McCall, Jack Gugenheim, Joe Gugenheim,
and Judge and Mrs. Thomas A. Graves.

Among the younger guests were four students from
Texas Military Institute who expect to enter Washing-
ton and Lee.

 

Richmond

On the fifteenth of February the Richmond Chapter
held one of its best meetings in years when about sixty
alumni, including several from out of town who were
there for the meeting of the General Assembly, dined and
heard some splendid speeches. Dr. Gaines, the principal
speaker of the occasion, made an inspiring address, while
Cy Young, representing the Alumni Association, spoke
briefly about alumni affairs.

Of particular interest was a talk by General Henry 'T.
Wickham, 1868, the oldest living graduate of the college.
During the illness of the Speaker, General Wickham
served as Speaker pro tem. of the Virginia senate during
part of this session.

Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, president of the associa-
tion, presided.

[12]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Chattanooga

Tue Washington and Lee Alumni Association of
Chattanooga met at the Read House on the evening of
february 29, immediately after an address delivered to
the alumni and to various guests by Dr. Francis Pendle-
ton Gaines, president of the University. Dr. Gaines had
previously spoken before the McCallie and Baylor schools.

The meeting was called to order by the president,
Clarence Avery. The first matter discussed was the sched-
uled football game between Washington and Lee and Se-
wanee, to be played in Chattanooga sometime during the
fall of 1940. The president appointed the following com-
mittee to make arrangements for the game: Ed Brown,
Karl Clemons, Kenneth Durham, R. B. Davenport, Jr.,
Peabody Howard, and Fred Hahn.

There was considerable discussion about further meet-
ings of the Alumni Association, which will be held at va-
rious times during the year, especially with reference to
alumni support of the coming game.

A considerable gathering of alumni attended the meet-
ing, including: Jerome M. Allen, C. R. Avery, Julian
Black, W. E. Brock, Jr., Edward E. Brown, J. W. Cas-
sell, Jr., King Jones, Sweetwater, Tennessee, Clarence L.
Claunch, Fred Hahn, John Hocker, Edward Lea Davis,
John Stanard, K. A. Durham, C. W. Tharpe, Peabody
Howard, F. A. Nelson, A. C. Bryan, E. J. Bryan, Jr.,
Hardwick Stuart, Cleveland, Tennessee, D. S. Stuart,
Cleveland, Tennessee, W. H. Trotter, Jr., J. M. Hogs-
head, Woods White, G. R. Stoutt, Reverend Battle Mc-
Lester, Frank W. Moore, R. B. Davenport, Jr., Dawson
Hall, Al Hurst, Walter E. Smith, W. F. Barron, Rome,
Georgia, Murrell Yankee, Rome, Georgia, Johnnie Jones,
Dick Clements, J. C. Haris, Scottsboro, Alabama, and J.
E,. (Buck) Bailey, Dallas, Texas.

 

North Texas

Dr. GAINES’ southwestern tour took him on March 6
to Dallas where an enthusiastic group of alumni gathered
at the Adolphus Hotel to hear him speak. President J. M.
Faulkner presided, and Dr. Gaines was introduced by Mr.
Gaylord J. Stone of Fort Worth, a childhood friend. Dr.
Gaines had previously spoken before the Highland Park
High School.

The chapter, in formal meeting, elected their officers
for the coming year: Gaylord J. Stone, of Fort Worth,
president; Rosser J. Coke, Jr., of Dallas, vice-president ;
Banard D. Bryan, of Abeline, vice-president ; and James
Rk. Thomas, of Fort Worth, secretary and treasurer.

When the meeting broke up, everyone moved into the

Century Room where there was dancing and a general so-
cial good time.

The list of alumni and friends present included:
Banard Dashiell Bryan, Dr. Bill Bryan, William Dickson
Adams, Walter S. Carruth, Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Chase,
Mr. and Mrs. Rosser J. Coke, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Rosser
J. Coke, Sr., Mr. and Mrs. M. M. Crane, Jr., Averill De-
Loache, Mr. and Mrs. Dillard Estes, Mr. and Mrs. James
M. Faulkner, Mr. and Mrs. Pinkney Grissom, George
Jones, Charles Edward Long, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. George
Douglas McClure, Edwin Allen Nesbitt, Frank Rader,
Mr. and Mrs. John Millard Stemmons, Mr. and Mrs.
Judd G. Stiff, D. E. Waggoner, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Les-
lie Wall, Dr. Guy Witt, R. L. McKinney, Jr., Mr. and
Mrs. Amos Lee Herold, Sam Benton Cantey, III, Wyatt
Dephas Hedrick, Clyde S$. McCall, Judge Andrew Jack-
son Power, C. E. Shropshire, Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord J.
Stone, and Mr. and Mrs. James R. Thomas.

 

Chicago

Tue Chicago Chapter of the alumni got together on
March 8 at the Knickerbocker Hotel for a meeting that
featured a talk by Secretary Cy Young who had traveled
there from Florida by way of Lexington for the occa-
sion. The occasion happened to be Cy’s birthday, and to
his surprise, it was royally celebrated on the spot. Sud-
denly, in the midst of the banquet, the lights were dark-
ened, and there appeared before him a tremendous birth-
day cake with twenty-one candles, one for each year of
his life. After responding with thanks for this gift, the
secretary reported on the state of the college and alumni
affairs.

The secretary of the chapter, W. F. Symonds, listed
twenty-four members present: P. P. Page, C. A. Stra-
horn, F. R. Seymour, H. P. Davidson, Colonel E.. Funk-
houser, C. McPeale, G. EK. Grashorn, T. W. Snead,
George W. Schnath, J. A. Culley, W. B. Hoffstitler, M.
EK. Atwood, W. C. Mulligan, W. R. Allen, C. L. Walker,
K. M. Stone, RK. Nason, I. J. Wenter, J. A. Houston, K.
McIntyre, B. L.. Thompson, A. D. Symonds, W. I. Sy-
monds, and J. Swan, Jr.

With them were eleven boys with an interest in
Washington and Lee: Gordon Sibley, William Brown,
Spencer Stuart, Perkins, Corrigan, J. C. Hemple, Jr.,
J. A. Rusch, Douglas Easterbury, Clarence Johnson, Jr.,
W. H. Appley, and E. J. Schneider.

For the business of the evening the group elected offi-
cers for the coming year, who were: George W. Schnath,
president; W. Rk. Allen, vice-president ; K. M. Stone, sec-
retary ; and Colonel KE. Funkhouser, alumni correspondent.

[13]

Cleveland

Avr a dinner meeting held at the University Club,
Cleveland, on the evening of March 7, 1940, the North-
eastern Ohio Chapter of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association was organized. Out of approximately seventy
alumni residing in northeastern Ohio, twenty-one were
in attendance.

Harry K. “Cy” Young, alumni secretary, was on hand
for the occasion. In an interesting and entertaining talk
“Cy” told of the function of an alumni chapter, and out-
lined news of alumni activity the country over.

Those present unanimously voted to make the meet-
ing an annual affair. Moreover, the posibility of having
a golf party or some other form of outdoor get-together
during the coming summer months was discussed, and it
was agreed that the question be submitted to alumni in
this section in the early summer.

 

Gulf Stream

ALUMNI of southern Florida met on February 23 at
the Yeater’s Roof in Miami for a meeting and dinner. A
visit from the alumni secretary was enjoyed by all pres-
ent, and the group was particularly impressed by his mov-
ing pictures of Finals, the Virginia football game, and
other campus scenes. Among those present were:

Paul D. Barns, 1915, W. F. Blanton, 1911, John H.
Cheatham, Jr., 1932, George T. Clark, 1925, Luther L.
Copley, 1925, Henry Dew, 1911, T. J. Ellis, 1923, Charles
J. Holland, 1928, F. M. Hudson, 1890, William H. Ma-
lone, 1901, Brooks Mell, 1912, W. F. Parker, 1920, Paul
R. Scott, 1916, Oliver P. Searing, 1909, William F.
Stephens, 1922, Lewis Twyman, 1913, Marshall G. Twy-
man, 1917, Harry A. Williams, Jr., 1910, and J. Emett
Wolfe, Jr., 1929.

The following were named as officers for the ensuing
year: President, Paul D. Barns; vice-president, Paul R.
Scott; secretary, Luther L. Copley.

The meeting was concluded with an election of ofh-
cers. The following were elected: Benjamin F. Fiery,
1913, president; John L. McChord, 1918, vice-president ;
Luther F. Violett, 1933, secretary-treasurer ; and J. Pres-
ton Irwin, 1909, member of the Alumni Council.

The following were among those present: Edgar EK.
Eaton, Jr., 1936, Akron, Ohio; Robert G. Geiger, Jr.,
1936, Canton, Ohio; William E. Brown, 1930, Warren,
Ohio: W. H. H. Wertz, 1933, Wooster, Ohio; Mark
Sperry, 1930, Richard Sperry, 1929, and F. C. Pomeroy,
1930, all of Chardon, Ohio; and Benjamin F. Fiery, 1913,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

John L. McChord, 1918, Thomas M. Harman, 1925,
Ralph J. Bishop, 1936, Dan Sherby, 1930, Richard A.
Banks, 1932, Elton H. Thuran, 1939, Arnold S. King,
1934, K. A. Goode, 1925, J. Preston Irwin, 1909, P. L.
Holden, Jr., 1938, S. C. Busbee, 1926, James M. Russell,
1934, and Luther F. Violett, 1933, all of Cleveland.

 

In Memoriam

Dr. SAMUEL CLARK Rep, 1883, long a prominent
physician in Houston, Texas, died at his home there on
February 25. Besides attending Washington and Lee for
a year, Dr. Red studied at the University of Texas and
the Jefferson Medical College at Philadelphia. He was a
pioneer in Houston medical history, having first started
practice in the city in 1887. He was instrumental in found-
ing the first hospital in Houston and was the first to use
many modern medical methods there. In addition to his
medical work, he had wide interests, being on two boards
of directors, making a valuable collection of art, and en-
gaging in many forms of civic activities. He is survived
by his second wife, eight children, six grandchildren, and
one great-grandchild.

Harry THomAS BELL, 1893, died of a heart attack at
his home in Bessemer, Alabama, on February 13. He is
survived by a daughter and two grandchildren.

Ropert Rinc, 1903, died in Houston, Texas, on the
ninth of March. He took his law degree from the Uni-
versity of Texas after graduation from Washington and
lee, and then began practice in Houston where he had
been an active lawyer ever since. He is survived by his
widow and four children.

Jupce BENJAMIN HapeEn, LL.B. 1915, judge of the
Nineteenth Judicial Circuit of Virginia, died in Roanoke
on March 19. He began the practice of law, after his
graduation, in Fincastle which was his home at the time
of his death. He was considered one of the most able jur-
ists of the state and was often designated by the governor
to preside over courts outside his circuit. He is survived
by his widow and two children.

 

The 1940 Finals or Bust!

It’s the hundredth anniversary of the Alumni Associa-
tion. It’s going to be the best Finals in more than a hun-
dred years. June 5, 6 and 7 are the dates. By June we
might even have warm weather. So plan now to be here
with your friends.

[14]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Class Notes

 

1893

HARRINGTON WADDELL 1s
still living in Lexington and dis-
charging his duties as head
the school system here. His two
sons, both graduates of Wash-

 

ington and Lee, are both mar- Ce ieee
ried. The older one, Finley Mell-

waine Waddell, is in the insurance business in Lexington
and has a little girl three years old who is a great pleasure
to her grandparents. The younger boy, Dr. W. E. Wad-
dell, has been resident surgeon in a hospital at ‘Twillin-

gate, Newfoundland, for the past two years.

THE REVEREND Mr. R. W. Jopiine is pastor of the
Presbyterian Church, 110 North White Street, Lancaster,
South Carolina. He says that his love for dear old Wash-
ington and Lee has not abated an iota through the years.
He has a wife, and a daughter who is a graduate of Hol-
lins College. He has been in this charge for nineteen years
and has a splendid new church.

PLiny FisHBURN operates a drug store in Waynes-
boro, Virginia.

Dr. ANDREW H. Woobs lives in Lowa City, lowa. He
is chairman of the Department of Psychiatry in the Uni-
versity of Lowa College of Medicine, and director of the
Iowa State Psychopathic Hospital.

1898

NorMAN S. FirzuuGu is a certified public accountant,
with offices in the Kanawha Banking and
Trust Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

“~~
~

Oscar C. HurrMan is president of the
Continental Can Company, 100 Kast 42nd
Street, New York. He is a member of the
Board of Trustees of the University.

CuHares J. FAuLKNER is general coun-
sel for Armour and Company, Room 1830,
Chicago Board of Trade Building, 316
South LaSalle Street, Chicago. He has en-

tirely recovered from a recent illness. ey &

1899

S. C. Linp is dean of the Institute of

Inasmuch as many of the letters on
which these notes are based came to us
last spring, some of the items may be
out-of-date or unintentionally inaccur-
ate. If so, we hereby apologize.

  
 

[as
} VP» hie 47)
’

Technology, University of Min-
nesota. He paid a visit to the
campus last fall.

BRADEN VANDEVENTER re-
cently finished his four-year ser-
Vir-

ginia Conservation Commission

vice as vice-chairman of

 

and is now closely tied down in
the routine practice of law.
and a girl.

He has two children, a boy

1901

T. H. HARMAN wrote a nice note to the Class Agent
for 1901 in reply to his letter, but protests that as a mat-
ter of fact he is a member of the law class of 1898. His
son, Thomas M. Harman, graduated from Washington
and lee before taking his law degree from Ann Arbor.
His two daughters are teaching in Pikeville College. Mr.
Harman is a member of the law firm of Harman, Francis
and Hobson, Pikeville, Kentucky.

1902
C.$. McNvtty is practicing law in Roanoke, Virginia.
EK. W. G. Boocuer is professor of English at Rider
College, Trenton, New Jersey. He received his Ph.D.
from the University of Pennsylvania in 1932.

1903

SAM GLAsGow is pastor of the historic Independent
Presbyterian Church in Savannah, Georgia. He says: “If
any of the old Washington and Lee men should come my
way and do me the honor of a visit, I would
show you a Robert E. Lee room—one in
which I have almost one hundred different
The Greatest American, per-
haps the best private collection of Lee pic-
tures in the South.”

pictures of

Joun FRANKLIN Wysor has been, since
1906, treasurer of Pulaski County, Vir-
ginia, and has performed an outstanding
service in the betterment of his community
and keeping its finances on an even keel
during the recent difficult times.

Joun M. Corsert continues a very suc-
cessful career, practicing law in Bay City,

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Texas. His son, Duncan, spent two years at Washing-
ton and Lee.

K. I. McKay is a member of the law firm of McKay,
Macfarlane, Jackson and Ramsey, Maas Office Building,
Tampa, Florida.

J. B. Akers has been in the Engineering Department
of the Southern Railway since graduation, engaged pri-
marily in maintenance-of-way activities.

Water G. Rippick is practicing law in Little Rock,
Arkansas, with offices in the Boyle Building.

Josgepu 1, Wysor is a member of the law firm of
Gilmer, Wysor and Gilmer, Attorneys and Counsellors
at Law, First National Bank Building, Pulaski, Virginia.

1906
Grorck W. P. Wuip is practicing law under the firm
name of Lord and Whip, Munsey Building, Baltimore,
Maryland.
B. J. Mayer is practicing law at LaGrange, Georgia.
Since last year he has been elected city attorney, and
president of the Highland Country Club.

. . * .
Mitton HERMAN is in the department store business
in Danville, Virginia.

J. Ropert Switzer is clerk of the Circuit Court of
Rockingham County, Harrisonburg, Virginia. He says:
“The longer I am away from college, the more I appre-
ciate Washington and Lee. Viewed from all angles, I be-
lieve it to be the finest school that I know of, and I hope
the enrollment will not be allowed to reach more than a
thousand.”

'T. O. BaGLey is in the insurance business in Ifayette-
ville, ‘Tennessee.

Davip H. Hii is with the Merritt, Chapman and
Scott Corporation. When he wrote to his Class Agent in
_ May, he was starting a submarine water main at Bath,
Maine, 2700 feet long, laid across the Kennebec River.
This is a slow job on account of the strong tides, as the
divers can only work a short time between change of
tides,

Donatp W. M. MacCruer has completed his nine-
teenth year as pastor of the Rose City Presbyterian
Church, which has grown from 500 to 1400 members in
that time.

1908

Roserr W. ArNovp has been appointed judge of the
Third Judicial Circuit of Virginia. His home is at Wav-
erly, Virginia.

Kart K. PAxton is teaching mathematics at Wash-
ington and Lee. He had the misfortune of having the
house on his farm near Lexington struck by lightning
this past summer and burned to the ground.

Horace W. Puitiipes lives at Hardeeville, South

Carolina.

W. P. Hooper is minister of the Highlawn Presby-
terian Church, Collis Avenue and Twenty-Eighth Street,
Huntington, West Virginia, where he has been for twenty
years. For the last eleven years he has been teaching
Bible in Marshall College. He has one daughter who
graduated, magna cum laude, from Marshall College last
June.

1909

GEORGE BREMMER is title officer of the Cuyahoga Ab-
stract ‘Title and ‘Trust Company, Cuyahoga Abstract
Building, Cleveland, Ohio. His address is R.I*.D., Co-
lumbia Station, Ohio.

DrvALL GwWATH MEY is rector of the Episcopal Church
of Wytheville, Virginia.

J. Preston Irwin is with Arthur G. McKee and
Company, Engineers and Contractors, 2422 Euclid Ave-
nue, Cleveland, Ohio. He has three children, two boys and
a girl. The boys are looking forward to entering Wash-
ington and Lee.

1910

Dr. WittiaAm R. Latirp is the founder and head of
the Laird Memorial Hospital at Montgomery, West
Virginia.

SILL STREIT, JR., is secretary and sales manager of
the Southern Cement Company, Birmingham, Alabama.

> 1 ‘ ci al c il for Pan-Americ:

son ‘THACH is general council for Pan-American
Airways, Inc., General Offices, Crysler Building, New
York.

JouNn RANDOLPH CHARLTON lives at 518 Washing-

ton Street, Lynchburg, Virginia.

THe REVEREND Mr. Branson LEHEW Woop is a
Presbyterian minister in Buchanan, Virginia.

ELTon WATKINS is an attorney-at-law, Failing Build-
ing, Portland, Oregon.

Cuarces P. (CHuck) Rosinson is president of The
Business Service Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He

[16]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

is the very efficient head of the Pittsburgh local chapter
of Washington and Lee alumni.

1911

I’. P. Gururié is district communications manager,
R.C.A., Inc., 1112 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

WILLIAM A.
Bank, Troutville, Virginia.

Rep is cashier of the First National

EK. E. Aprams, Jr., is with the Reliance Life Insur-
ance Company of Pittsburgh. He lives in
Butler, Pennsylvania.

1912

RussELL B. WINE 1s practicing law
in the National Bank of Commerce
Building, San Antonio, Texas. He sends
with his letter a number of postcards
and a story about one: “the one of Judge
Roy Bean is very famous, as Judge Bean
was the self-constituted law west of the
Pecos River, and although his sign shows
he was Justice of the Peace, he tried all cases from mur-
der down; and on one occasion when the Southern Pa-
cific bridge was being built, a Chinaman who was work-
ing on the bridge fell from the bridge and was killed. He
was carrying on his person a 45 pistol and $40 in cash.
Judge Bean called to hold an inquest, promptly fined the
dead Chinaman $40 for carrying a concealed weapon and
confiscated the weapon.”

FRANCIS HEAZEL has been located in Asheville, North
Carolina, for a number of years practicing law under the
firm name of Heazel, Shuford and Hartshorn.

Dr. FRANK R. RurFrF is a member of the staff of the
Burnett Sanitarium, Iresno, California. He has not been
back to the campus in eighteen years.

R. M. Knorr is an assistant in the West Virginia
State I*ire Marshall’s office at Charleston, West Virginia.
He is married and has a son thirteen, and twins, a boy
and a girl, nine.

Howarpb A. Doss has been with the Southern Pacific
Company of Los Angeles, California, for the past twenty-
five years. His address is 6600 West Fifth Street, Los
Angeles, California.

James C. PICKENS is with the Southern Railway Com-
pany, Fifteenth and K Streets, Washington, D. C.

 

C. LEE OrDEMAN is with the Mead Sales Company,
Inc., 230 Park Avenue, New York.

T. B. Harrison is agency manager for Investors’
Syndicate in Charlotte, North Carolina,

Ceci Gray tells no news of himself but writes on
stationery of the Gray Mercantile Company, Coleman,
‘Texas.

Junius W. PULL&y is commonwealth’s attorney at
Courtland, Virginia. His firm is Pulley and Rawlings.
and has five children.

He is married

James W. Bruce graduated from
the University of Pennsylvania Medical
School of 1915, spent two years’ intern-
ship in Bellevue Hospital in New York,
and went into practice. He joined the
army and spent eighteen months in
france, most of the time with the Sec-
After the
post-graduate work in New York in
Pediatrics, and has specialized in that line
ever since. He is now associate professor
of Pediactrics in the University of Louisville. He mar-
ried Edith Campbell in 1917, and they have three daugh-
ters: Edith, 16, Louise, 15, and Mary Ormsby, 13.

ond Division. war he took

Ky_e M. WeEks, after graduating from Washington
and Lee, opened offices in Floyd, but in the fall of 1914
he entered the law school at Yale University and in June
following was awarded the degree of J.D. In February
of 1916 he formed a partnership with Mr. J. E. Proffit
of Floyd (also a graduate of the Yale law school), which
has continued since that time.

HARVEY B. ApPERSON represents the twenty-first Sen-
atorial district in the Virginia Legislature. He practices
law in Roanoke, with offices in the Boxley Building.

HERMAN P. Davipson says he 1s still looking at hu-
man eyes, brown, blue, black, pink, green, piebald and all
other human shades you can think of. He is an eye, ear,
nose and throat doctor in Chicago, with offices at Suite
1424, 30 North Michigan Avenue.

G. D. Davipson has recently moved his family from
Warrior Mine, West Virginia, to Bluefield. He is general
manager of the H. E. Harman Coal Corporation, Har-
man, Virginia. He helped organize the company about
five years ago and has built it to around five thousand tons
of coal per day or an average of one hundred railroad
cars. It is now the largest mine in the state of Virginia.

[17]

T he cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

His daughter, Frances, graduated from the University of
Arizona in 1938 and is now taking a course in bookkeep-
ing and accounting in Bluefield College. His son, Bill, is
seventeen years old and has another year in Beaver High
School, Bluefield, West Virginia.

Grorce West DIEHL is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Corpus Christi, Texas, where he has been
since March, 1932. The population of Corpus Christi has
grown in these seven years from 24,000 to 68,000, and
his church from 654 to 1300. In addition to his work as
pastor, he has found time to engage in many matters of
civic interest.

1914

T. A. McCork ce is professor of Chemistry and Phy-
sics, State ‘Teachers College, armville, Virginia. He mar-
ried Miss M. Ethel McCorkle of Lexington, Virginia.
They have one daughter, Martha, now a senior at Farm-
ville State Teachers College, and another, Louise, a sen-
ior in high school. They live at 303 First Avenue, Farm-
ville, Virginia.

CLARENCE L,. SAGER, past-president of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., lives at Old Greenwich, Con-
necticut. He is practicing law in New York City, with of-
fices at 30 East 42nd Street.

W. Houston Barc ay is representative of the Equit-
able Life Insurance Company at Wichita, Kansas. He
was in Lexington during the summer, bringing with him
his youngest son, David, agéd four.

CLARENCE R. Avery of Chattanooga, Tennessee, is
president of the Chattanooga Glass Company, largest
manufacturers of the patented bottle for Coca-Cola. He
married Elizabeth Lupton of Bedford, Virginia. They
have two children, Betty and Lupton. Lupton is now a
junior at Washington and Lee and a member of the Phi
Delta Theta fraternity. Clarence is also a director of the
Tennessee Manufacturers’ Association and is past presi-
dent of the Chattanooga Rotary Club. He says that his
most pleasant job is acting as superintendent of the Sun-
day School of the First Presbyterian Church.

Henry N. Baker ts practicing law at Bristol, Va.

Ben D. Smitru is a member of the law firm of Ben
V. Smith and Son, First National Bank Building, Somer-
set, Kentucky. His daughter is a freshman at Hollins this
year. Ben, his wife, his mother and his father were re-
cent visitors to the campus.

J. Car_tron Hupson, after leaving Washington and
Lee, took post-graduate work at the University of Wis-

consin. He later practiced with Judge J. H. Voorhees in
Pueblo, Colorado, for a brief time, and then returned to
Norfolk in 1916. Since the war he has continued practice
in Norfolk at 500 National Bank of Commerce Building.
He is married and has three children, J. Carlton Hudson,
Jr., seventeen, Barbara, fifteen, and Janet, five.

1915
Pau C. THoMaAs is with the Consolidated Brokerage
Company, Merchandise Brokers, Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia. He had a severe illness last year but is quite well
again.

R. W. (Dick) FowLkgs is practicing medicine in
Richmond with offices in the Professional Building. He
is now a member of the Alumni Board of Trustees.

J. Cart Fisuer lives at 208 Witherspoon Road,
Homeland, Baltimore, Maryland.

Witi1am S. Snow is practicing law in Alexandria.
He is also president and general counsel of the American
Fisheries Association Cooperative and looking after the
Washington interests of this organization. He is a mem-
ber of the Virginia Commission of Game and Inland
Iisheries, having served in the latter capacity for twelve
years.

1916

GeEoRGE D. (Suorty) SHore is practicing law under
the firm name of Mcleod and Shore, Sumter, South
Carolina.

Bos Corris is treasurer of the Times-World Cor-
poration, ‘Times Building, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. C. Rivers is president of the I*. R. S. Novelty Com-
pany, Inc., “manufacturers and distributors of World's
lair merchandise.” His address is 315 West 97th Street,
New York.

Bruce WooprvuF*F is still practicing law under the firm
name of Woodruff and Ward, Suite 928 Healey Build-
ing, Atlanta, Georgia. His partner, Bill Ward, Jr., is an
LLL.B., Washington and Lee, 1930.

REUBEN A. (RuBE) Lewis has served for the last
two years as executive vice-president of the Metropolitan
Trust Company, 11 South LaSalle Street, Chicago. His
eighteen-year-old daughter entered Vassar last fall; Reu-
ben, thirteen, entered high school ; and Mitchell, twelve, is
still in graded school. Both boys have been to Lexington
and are quite thrilled over the prospect of attending col-
lege here later on.

[18]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1917

Marion SAnpers and his wife made a cruise to the
Caribbean last spring. He is a consulting and electrical
engineer, Wytheville, Virginia.

CHARLIE STRIBLING is superintendent of the Missouri
Military Academy, Mexico, Missouri. He reports the
celebration of the Academy’s Golden Jubilee, with Post-
master Farley, governors and other important figures on
the campus. In Mr. Farley’s party was Vincent Miles of

the class of 1907.

GEORGE N. DANIELSON has made four visits to the
campus since his graduation, and, as he
comes all the way from St. Paul, Minne-
sota, this indicates a sincere attachment to
the University. He is with the United
States Department of Labor, Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Bos GARDNER is with the A. M. Byers 4
Company, Wrought Iron and Steel Prod-

ducts, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. cm

ae
yy =

= a =

LAFE B. CHAFIN is prosecuting attor-
ney of Mingo County, Williamson, West Virginia. He
and his family made a trip to South America during the
summer.

1918
J. L. Howe, Jr., is with The Arthur H. Thomas Com-
pany, Technological Service, 2314 Green Street, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

Jimmi£é AMBLER is a partner in Ginn and Company,
Publishers, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York. He is married
and has two children, a little girl four years old and a
James Craddock Ambler, Jr., born on Easter
Sunday, 1939. His home is at Glen Ridge, New Jersey

new son,

1919

Gus Fritrcnie took his law degree from Tulane Uni-
versity, New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1922, since which
time he has been practicing his profession in Slidell, Lou-
isiana. He married Onnie Mae Pierce of Slidell, and they
hav a son and a daughter.

SAMUEL A. ANDERSON, JR., is practicing medicine in
Richmond, Virginia. His address is 2326 West Grace
Street.

T. DeEwry Davis is practicing medicine in the Pro-
fessional Building, Richmond, Virginia.

W. F. Barron is with the Rome Coca-Cola Bottling
Company, Rome, Georgia.

 

i a

ie

1920

GLEN EvINs is manager of the Lykes Brothers In- .
surance Agency, 205 Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida,
where he has been since 1925.

Carv K. Gitcurist is treasurer of the Viking Gaso-
line Corporation in Charleston, West Virginia. He re-
ports the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Mathews Gil-
christ, in April, 1939.

KLDON PavuL KING is special deputy commissioner of
Internal Revenue. His address is Twelfth and Constitu-
tion Avenue, Washington, D. C. He is married and has
one child. He has represented the United
States Treasury Department in tax treaty
negotiations with France, Sweden, Canada
and other countries.

D. T. OrpeEMAN has been teaching in
Oregon State College since 1927. He is as-
= sociate professor of English. He has a
| daughter, Ann, and a son, Dan. Both sing
the Swing accurately and enthusiastically.

sur

— .

J. B. ATKiNs gives his address as tenth
floor, Commercial National Bank Building, Shreveport,
Louisiana. His son will enter Washington and Lee in
about two years.

Joun W. Kern is a member of the United States
Board of Tax Appeal, Washington, D. C. John grad-
uated from the Harvard Law School in 1923 and prac-
ticed law in Indianapolis until January, 1931. During this
time he also served as United States commissioner, pro-
fessor in the Indiana Law School, and as secretary of the
Indianapolis Bar Association. From 1931 to 1935 he
served as judge of the Superior Court of Marion County.
He was elected mayor of Indianapolis and served in this
capacity from January 1, 1935, until September, 1937.
He has recently been re-appointed a member of the United
State Board of Tax Appeal to serve until 1950. He mar-
ried Bernice Winn of Indianapolis, and they have one
son, John W. Kern, Jr., who is ten years old.

Henry BAKER is manager of Cold Rolled Sales,

Sharon Steel Corporation, Sharon, Pennsylvania.
W. P. Parsons is practicing law in Wytheville, Va.

1921

Howarp GriBpons is treasurer of Madison College,
S

formerly Harrisonburg State ‘T Harri-

sonburg , Virginia.

achers College,
&

GRAHAM WHITE
children, two boys and a girl.

is happily married and has three
He was in Lexington,

[19]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

“which is his native town.” in 1935, his first visit in fif-
teen years.

Cart EK. L. Give is with the Department of Labor.
He lives at 420 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts.

FRANK M. PoLvtock is with the Fire Companies’ Ad-
justment Bureau, Inc., in Bluefield, West Virginia.

Henry TiGNor was at the University of Michigan in
May taking post-graduate work in the School of Educa-
tion, leading to the doctorate.

SERNIE HAMPTON is pastor of the Centenary Metho-
dist Church, Erwin, Tennessee. He is married and has
three daughters, three, five and ten years of age.

\W. L. Leap is head of the Department of Sociology
at Birmingham-Southern College, Birmingham, Alabama.
He married a Virginia girl and has a daughter born Feb-

ruary 17, 1939.

At MecCartuy, Jr., is with the Hercules Supply
Company, Oil and Gas Well Supplies, Houston, Texas.

Cy HALL is practicing law with offices in the Kanawha
Valley Building, Charleston, West Virginia.

1924

OGvEN SHROPSHIRE, formerly manager of the Bond
Department of the First National Bank of Mobile, has
formed an investment banking firm of his own—Shrop-
shire and Company, First National Bank Building, Mo-
bile, Alabama. He is considered an expert on municipal
bonds.

Bayarp L. MALONE, JR., is practicing law in the First
l‘ederal Building, St. Petersburg, Florida.

Rosert M. BeAr is chairman of the Department of
Psychology of Dartmouth College. “In the fall, in col-
laboration with Rothney of Harvard and Imus of our
Kye Institute, | got out a study entitled An Evaluation of
Visual Factors in Reading. This 160-page monograph
was published by Dartmouth College Publications.”

l.. W. MiLsourne is vice-president of the Monu-
mental Radio Company. He says he is getting pretty deep
in the broadcasting business which brings up something
new every day.

VERBON KEMP is executive secretary of the Virginia
State Chamber of Commerce. He says two Washington

and [ee alumni are members of the State Chamber staff,
Db. C. O'Flaherty, 1927, and W. J. Ritz, 1938.

W. CiypE DENNIs celebrated the sixteenth anniver-
sary of his wedding on March 28. He and Mrs. Dennis
have two sons, Billy, in the first year of high school, and
Bobby, in the first grade.

Kpwarp L&E Hurveurt is district manager of Amer-
ican Airlines, Inc., 165 Union Avenue, Memphis, Tenn.

GEORGE CLARK is a member of the law firm of Clark
and Ellis, Ingraham Building, Miami, Florida.

Joun C. Morrison is a member of the firm of Brown,
Jackson and Knight, Kanawha Valley Bank Building,
Charleston, West Virginia.

PERRY NORMAN is assistant superintendent, Western
Union Headquarters, Dallas, Texas. He reports an heir,
Perry A., Jr., born November 11, 1938, and says he will
get him a bamboo pole in a few years to see if he can
develop another vaulter for Washington and Lee.

WittiAM H. Boyer is practicing law in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina.

W. Hitt Brown, Jr., is commonwealth’s attorney of
Prince William County, Virginia. His address is Ma-
nassas, Virginia.

CLARENCE MEApows is attorney general of West Vir-
ginia. He is married and has a daughter, Helen Watson,
aged six months.

M. lu GoopMAN is a member of the firm of Jackson,
Goodman and Company, Certified Public Accountants of
Norfolk, Virginia.

Rupy LANE is factory representative of the Baker
Kquipment Engineering Company, Fremont, N. C.

EmMeEtr MacCorkte, Jr., is with the Air Reduction
Sales Company, Hawley Building, Wheeling, West Va.

1927

L,. R. Bowker is assistant manager, Claim Depart-
ment, Bituminous Casualty Corporation, Rock Island,
[linois.

ALLEN Harris, JRr., is with the Harris Flooring Com-
pany, 21-33 Borden Avenue, Long Island City, New York.

J. DeWerrEsE CartER was admitted to the Maryland
Bar the same year he finished at Washington and Lee,

[20]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

and since that time has continuously practiced law at Den-
ton, Caroline County, Maryland, which is his home town.
He served as United States commissioner at Denton from
1927 to 1933. He is a member of the Democratic State
Central Committee for the county. He is still a bachelor.

PETER CorFrreLp is with the Hudson Coal Company.
His address is Box 116, East Aurora, New York.

GEORGE VARNEY is a member of the firm of Keefe
and Varney, Attorneys-at-Law, Berwick, Maine. He 1s
married and has a girl about eight and a boy seven. His
principal office is in Dover, New Hampshire, and he
practices in both states. He has been a mem-
ber of the Maine House of Representa-
tives for three terms; county attorney for
the County of York, Maine, 1933-1934;
and is at present a member of the House
of Representatives and Republican Floor

 

     

ALBERT (Son) Stevens, III, is with the Ed Steves
and Sons Lumber Company of San Antonio, Texas. He
is married and has one son.

Birt Marsu is president of the Fayetteville Indus-
trial Bank, Fayetteville, North Carolina. He says: “There
isn't a great deal to tell about myself. We have two sons
at our house aged two years and two months, respec-
tively, and they keep things pretty lively around here. |
keep busy with this banking business and looking after
my farms. We opened this bank last November, and it is
growing nicely. And that old saying that
things get better with age is not true be-
cause my golf is still lousy. Otherwise there
isn’t much to report.”

Bitt Avsop has been working for the
Dixie Lime Company of Ocala, Florida,

 

leader. =r Y/N Ec é
1928 ee NAA WiAZe ee Ssofor the past eight years. He is superintend-
WIN I i M—wnies ent of the Ocala Works.

E M ] . ] l . 29 | ac. eee moot IEE AS.

.D MILLER has been made special as = Wy
‘ f a se vont penta Tel as ‘
sistant to the Attorney General and has = = —— J. ARLINGTON PAINTER teaches book-
moved from St. Louis to Washington, ~——=__ keeping in the Lock Haven, Pennsylvania,
D. C. His home address is 301 North Wash- = ALE aes: High School. He married Miss Virginia
ington Street, Alexandria, Virginia tape tae = ‘Thomas of Lexington, and they make fre-

tif , —— i
: 2 ; ay — quent visits to her home here.

Joun G. McC Lure is practicing medi- rn:

cine in Welsh, Louisiana. He says: “I’m just an old HERBERT JAHNCKE is working for Jahncke Service,

country doctor; have a good wife, a good home, a good
name, and two beautiful dogs.”

1929

Lewis PowE Lt, Jr., is a member of the law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Anderson, Gay and Moore, Electric
suilding, Richmond, Virginia.

WaLtTer WIiLcox is with the S$. D. Warren Company,
Paper Manufacturers, 2 Park Avenue, New York.

Norris SMITH is practicing medicine at 422 Jefferson
Standard Building, Greensboro, North Carolina.

J. W. TAnKarp is practicing medicine at Jenkins Hos-
pital, Jenkins, Kentucky.

WILLIAM WATSON is stationed in Swatow, China, a
port north of Honkong, with the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company. He was in Canton during the Japanese occu-
pation.

Harry IX. Gopwin is with the Seaboard Oil Com-
pany in Jacksonville, florida. He wishes his friends to
note a change of address from Box 691, Jacksonville
Beach, to 792 King Street, Jacksonville, Florida.

New Orleans, Louisiana. He is married and has two sons.

BEN RAwLINs is in the law department of United
States Steel Corporation, 436 Seventh Avenue, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania.

MONTAGUE ROSENBERG is practicing law in the Gra-
ham Building, Jacksonville, Florida. He is married and
has a son, Daniel Heckel Rosenberg.

1931
Bitty JONES (now W. L. JoNEs) is living in a new
home at 155 Crescent Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky. He
is with the Louisville Trust Company, his position being
that of statistician and his work supervision of trust in-
vestments. He is also teaching Business Administration
two nights a week at the University of Louisville.

Sip CLAY was married last fall to Jane Shelby of Dan-
ville, Kentucky, and is now trust officer of the Farmers
Bank and Capital Trust Company, of Frankfort, Ky.

At PEEry is practicing law in ‘Tazewell, Virginia.

Jack Harpwick married June Warden of Louisville
in May, 1938, and is now head of the Bank Relations

[21]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Department of the Louisville Trust Company, Louisville,
Kentucky.

DANIEL SHERBY is with the Yellow Cab Company,
2020 West Third Street, Cleveland, Ohio. He is married
and has a daughter two years old.

I. C. Pace is with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany, 1102 Grundy Street, Nashville, Tennessee.

MarvVIN PILLEY’s address is 312 North State Street,
Jackson, Mississippi.

ALEX VEECH is supervisor of buildings and grounds
at Washington and Lee. He is the proud father of a fine
son born last spring.

1932

Kip McCarruy is publicizing the charms of inland
Ilorida and Orlando in particular. His address is Cham-
ber of Commerce Building, Orlando, Florida.

Jack SAVAGE is judge of the Intermediate Court of
Kanawha County, Charleston, West Virginia. He says
that nothing is happening to him except that he is “getting
as fat as a peanut-fed hog.” He says all the members of
his family are hale and hearty, including the little bull
dog which he purchased from Herb, the dog vendor, in
1929. Becky Lou, his oldest, will soon finish the third
grade, and in a few years his little boy will be starting. He
will start building himself a new house within a few
weeks.

1933

SAM BELL STEVES completed the building of a new
house in the spring. His address is Box 1081, San An-
tonio, Texas.

IrED Cook graduated in the upper-third of the Har-
vard Business School, Class of 1938. He has returned to
his home in Waynesboro, Virginia, and is in business
with his father and uncle in The Hamilton-Cook Hard-
ware Company.

LorinGc M. Garrison is still with the Crane Company
in Greenville, South Carolina. He says he is still living
on bachelors’ row, and sees no prospect of a change. His
address is 412 Kast Main Street, Easley, South Carolina.

Joun CuLtey is living in Dixon, Illinois.

RucKER RyLANp started work with the Worthington
Manufacturing Company last April. They manufacture
paper products. His address is still 4502 Sulgrave Road,
Windsor Farms, Richmond, Virginia.

Bernarp (Dust) Davis, of Shelbyville, Kentucky,
is president of the local Chamber of Commerce, chairman

of the Shelby County Democratic Executive Committee,
Moderator of the Baptist Church, and general “‘flunkie”
in other civic matters.

Jok Wuarton, Jr., is practicing general surgery,
214-218 Exchange Building, FE] Dorado, Arkansas.

Homer G. Ray, Jr., is vice-president of the Georgia
Peanut Company, Moultrie, Georgia. They have six mills
spread over Georgia and Florida.

Corr Apams writes that he is still single and still prac-
ticing law in Blackstone, Virginia.

DonaLp K. Crawrorp is practicing law in IIkins,
West Virginia, and is a member of the firm of Arnold
and Crawford (D. Hill Arnold, 1901). He has a good
practice and is still single.

1934

Darsy Bervs is assistant minister of the Church of
the Ascension, Cates and Goodfellow Streets, St. Louis,
Missouri. He was on the campus for Religious Emphasis
Week in the spring and says that the changes in Wash-
ington College left him gasping. He says: “Even though
my amazement was extreme as I stepped from Mat’s new
office and planned to get a “dope” at the Co-Op and ran
into that new foyer instead, I still like it and am not yell-
ing for the ‘Good Old Days’ as far as rocking stairs,
floors and plaster are concerned. Yet, | must say that it
was a little disheartening to hear that Old George is no
longer being painted and that the bell is rung by elec-
tricity.”

IsADORE Da’rrEL is in the mercantile and grocery busi-
ness with his father, does a little farming, and is selling
seed and fertilizer. His address is Dattel’s, The Busy
Store, Sunflower, Mississippi.

JouHNNy THOMAS is associated with the law firm of
Ritchie, Hill and Thomas, Security Building, Charles-
ton, West Virginia. He reports a wonderful vacation with
Ruge DeVan through the southwest including a visit to
Everett Tucker in Little Rock.

GARLIE FoREHAND has been working industrial insur-
ance for about two years in Rocky Mount, North Caro-
lina. His family consists of a wife and two red-headed
boys, aged six and two.

Tommy ANpDERSON’s address is 2203 Gulf Building,
Houston, ‘Texas.

1935

MerepitaH GRAHAM has been with the State Mutual
Insurance Company since last January and is assistant
treasurer. He married Peggy Hill of Elmira, New York,

[22]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

and they have built a new house. They live in Rome,

.
-

Georgia.

RUDOLPH BUMGARDNER, JR., is practicing law in
Staunton, Virginia. He is married and has a young daugh-
ter, who, in the eyes of her father, gives every prospect of

being the Queen of the 1955 Fancy Dress.

1936

Cyrus V. ANDERSON was admitted to the Bar of
Minnesota on May 10, 1930. On the same day, he secured
a position as special attorney with the Anti-Trust Di-
vision, Department of Justice, Washington, D. C., where
he has, since that time, been employed. His address is
Apartment 418 The Majestic, 3200 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

GEORGE HARRISON has been with the Equitable Life
Insurance Society for two years. His address is P. O.
Sox 313, Henderson, North Carolina.

WALTER LAWTON has spent the past three years al-
ternating between working for the government and going
to school. ‘Two summers he was employed by the Depart-
ment of Commerce in Washington, and as secretary of
the First Baptist Church in Washington. He has taken
courses in three different schools, six months at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, two months at George Washington
University, and sixteen months at the Southern Baptist
Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. All of this work
counted toward the degree of Th.B., which he received
last May.

1937

Vicror LA VOLPE is a new man on the staff of the
Greenwich Time, Greenwich, Connecticut, “best suburban
newspaper in America.” Greenwich Time is edited by
Wythe Williams, a foreign correspondent for twenty-six
years. His accurate prognostications on the turn of for-
eign events has directed world-wide attention to his paper.
He is the person who broke the Goebbels “love beating.”

O. H. Peckuam, 820 Hamilton Avenue, St. Louis,
Missouri, is with Oberjuerge Rubber Distributing Com-
pany. He was married January 14, last year, to Miss Janet

Young.
1938

Epwarb W. HiserMAn is practicing law in the Char-
leston National Bank Building, Charleston, West Va.

Wacpo MILEs is with the law firm of Carter and Wil-
liams, Danville, Virginia.

Weddings

AFTER a long winter dearth of matrimonial news, THE
ALUMNI MAGAZINE is proud to present a spring record
of nine weddings and a prospective wedding, and we
should like to take this opportunity to extend our con-
gratulations to all the lucky gentlemen listed below, with
felicitation likewise to their brides.

Dr. RicHArpD WILLIAMSON FowLkeEs, 1915, president
of the Richmond Alumni Chapter, married Ferebee Fen-
ner Cooper on the first day of March in Richmond.

NELSON Burris, 1926, it was announced by the par-
ents of the prospective bride, will be married on June |
to Miss Mary Carolyn Gump. After the wedding the
couple will reside in New York City.

ALMAND RousgE CoLEMAN, who graduated in 1927
and is at present a professor of accounting at Washing-
ton and Lee, married Miss Clare Merryman Whitefield
on the thirteenth of April. The ceremony took place in
the Grace and Holy ‘Trinity Church of Richmond.

Roy Leicuton McKinney, Jr., 1932, was married
in Jacksonville, Texas, on April 3 at the First Presby-
terian Church. His bride was Miss Mary Forrest.

ALLEN DaLk SymMonps, 1933, was married on April
13 to Miss Mary Frances Brewer. The wedding took
place in Marshalltown, Iowa. After June 1, the couple
will live at 600 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois.

Cart WessTER Bear, 1933, married Miss Virginia
Pollard Oliver at the St. Johns Episcopal Church in Mont-
gomery, Alabama. The wedding took place on the tenth
of April.

LANGDON LAMAR SKARDA, of the class of 1938, mar-
ried Miss Mary Carolyn Ardery of Paris, Kentucky, last
ys : . . dence >
January. The wedding was held in the Presbyterian
Church of Paris.

Henry Drake, 1937, married Miss Johnnie Mae
Mathews on the sixth of February in Water Valley,
Mississippi.

KAYE BoLANDER SwAN, 1938, married Miss Nancy
‘airbanks White on the thirteenth of January in Cleve-
land Heights, Ohio.

Howarp McKay Hickey, 1939, married Miss Mellie
Hanks Hussey on April 27 at the Howard Memorial Pres-
byterian Church in Tarboro, North Carolina.

[23 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The College Builds Again

(Continued from page 35)
the center of another U-shaped edifice. The dome will be
removed, and a new entrance will be provided. It would
take too much space to describe the library changes in de-
tail, but the plans will doubtless be on display at Finals
when interested alumni may inspect them.

On account of the restricted funds available, the work
on the library will be limited to fireproofing the building,
remodeling so that the pattern will conform more closely
to the University architecture, rearranging all available
space in the present building, and adding more space for
the urgent requirements of student needs. Several highly
desirable features that are not included within the ser-
vice functions of the library will be planned for at this
time but must wait for full development until additional
funds are available.

The intramural athletic field is still somewhat of a
dream for the future, but the concrete act of buying the
White farm makes the dream much less nebulous. The
need of about a half-dozen fields for many different kinds
of intramural sport is obvious to anyone who knows the
growth of these activities at Washington and Lee and

 

~~ = ww eS ww ww Sw mS LmhlLe Le Leelee erhCUhlTehUeCrmermhUmeehlCCrlhlreTVrhUVCrehlhUCVTrehUTrmhUTlhUCUhUCh[ UC SO eee

McCRUM'S
vy
Prompt Delivery on

FLOWERS AND CANDY

In Lexington and Vicinity
vy
WHITMAN’S

and

MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDIES
y
Member of Florists’ Telegraph Delivery

y

Your Mail Order Will Receive Our
Best Attention

SO ee eee ee a a ee ee ee ae eee ee ee ee ee ee
» A +» A AA 4 4 4 4 4 Be Be Be ech hl lt lhl, hrlbrzzziilbrzziiletiriilhetriilleir..iilletisziil.iilyz,.ziiltuzzziilles,..iily,.ziilltzzzzziilszzz:illetszz,iillitzzzzziillsz,,,iiliziilituzziillttus,,.:ilttuzzillz,ziilitszzllsitlitu.illills.ills,.illus.llmsl, ills ls

 

 

> 4 4 444 dy Ay by dy ty ty dy tir diy i i in dit i di iii iititiaintlidliinatliintitiitiitiiatiie

 

realizes their importance. ‘lo convert the farm into the
sort of plant that the University will want, however, will
involve some $10,000 worth of grading and construction,
(This is from Cy Young—it sounds like a pretty low
figure to us!) Anyway, if the University should acquire
at least $10,000, there are going to be some very happy
young intramural athletes at Washington and Lee.

“Rocky” Holt, the new trustee, needs no introduction
to most alumni. As a popular student and teacher here
between 1914 and 1925, he is naturally known personally
to a great many graduates; while his subsequent election
to the governorship of West Virginia has made him na-
tionally prominent and therefore known by reputation.
The Board of Trustees should be strengthened through
his membership.

A sad fate may be in store for many small and inde-
pendent American colleges, but never, we trust, for Wash-
ington and Lee. Your university is going forward and
showing its strength. With continued alumni support and
continued wise leadership, this college, at least, should
have nothing to fear.

 

Taylor Stukes Elected to Bench

THe first World War veteran ever to be elected to the
Supreme Court of South Carolina is Taylor Hudnall
Stukes, who graduated from Washington and Lee in the
class of 1915. His new position is the highest judicial of-
fice in the state with the exception of that of Chief Justice.

Since graduation from the George Washington Uni-
versity Law School in 1919, he has practiced law in
Manning, South Carolina, and has served extensively in
the legislature. He was a member of the House from
1923-1926 and speaker pro tem. for the last of these vears.
In 1927, he was elected to the Senate where he has served
ever since. In May, 1938, he was also made chairman of
the State Democratic Executive Committee. His election
to the Supreme Court bench by the General Assembly of
South Carolina came on the 71st ballot, a record number
of ballots in recent years.

SAM Houston SHOWELL, B.S. 1916, is engineering
for a contractor on the Super-Highway being built be-
tween Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and Pittsburgh. This is
now one of the unique engineering constructions of the
nation. He formerly was employed on the Erwin plant
near Pittsburgh of the U. S. Steel Corporation.

 

Hiram Watt, LL.B. 1938, has recently become as-
sociated in the practice of law with Victor L. Tucker of
the same class. The offices of Tucker and Wall will be
located in the Witten Building in Pearisburg, Virginia.

[24 |

 

i i a a a a a a a a ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 4 eo ee ee ee ee ee & G&G 2 > 2 2 4 a 4 a> 2 2 2 an a> a, a a a am a a an a a an an dn am an an aman a: an a am aman anaa

 

ww we oS Cee eee

be Br Mir rch Arn Mi tele... li, lm lm, la dls dl, lm tu ue pe
» a ~~ — =

2 yee ve %
om ees: is
i aoe . a
“~~ wat i oe - «4
f p a »
7 “a
a aoe ae a
” a .

Z| ee ee :
“\gbetcoma lil eT Sey

Tay te)
- ." «i . :
> 4 -

 

Washington and Lee Wedgwood Plates

ORDER FORM

Db eins sc -cibecassushcvtsscdeosdeerbesveuas henna
L CCIONG Saal niseayaihnrssi- for the following Washington and Lee Wedgwood plates

at $1.50 per plate, payable in advance. Plates will be shipped charges colleél from
Boston, Gift orders may be prepaid by arrangement.

One Complete set of Eight plates [ | (or else check desired views below)

Center Views

1. Washington College.................. Eelam 5. Carnegie LAREAry ........<jcsesipths afd
2: Lee CREDEIrieee eis... Lay 6. Doremus Gymnasium ............... a
g. Lee-Jackson ‘FROG icisis..)%...5<.,..:.- a We URI RIE sbudes sovdco vssacvsnpgaateante Pad
4. Campus “Waikicistimeccnier- 9s... oe 8. Washington College, 1857.......... Pea
Check color choice: [ ] Blue [ ] Green [ | Mulberry
Ship plates to:
PRIEINE 5 osc .ncsues issn MMMM Ria ak gsi one dct ravbeeehodchefareiighage pie bsestis Hkaeachatkodnantseieaew tiated
AMIR OOR ks <cssainss peach ale heb casas ety 10s ld seas a joao Pata aor nekoeins ok ee

Make checks payable, and mail orders and inquiries to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia

*Owing to war conditions in England where these plates are being made, shipment
will probably be delayed and we can make no definite promise as to delivery date.

> a a eh ee

a... ld. ll... ld. ld...

i lantern heii... ht... lt, lt, ll, l,l, l,l la, la, l,l, la, la, lm, lm, ls lm lm, lm lm lms ll, ls ll, lt me ew it ts gp pape EHRAAAA AAA KAKA AA AA AAA A

 

La

a Pes

» ae

~ 4
Te’,
>
Ras

.

eo
Re -

.
aS

af
, 7s th
i

e
ae
~

 

—

—

FINALS
June 5, 6 and 7

   
  

Your friends will be here, will you? "

