 

 

 

The
Alumni Magazine

 

 

    
   
   

Racedinaeed Fi el wr” ea, al
ip More ys a IY >
1p a rs ee

'

BS ‘

  
 
  

     
 

? ae ~!
ey
a Nid
4 : oe 4 .
bead — : y
© a a” . *
= x "

 

 

 

The Law School Changes the University’s Skyline
Washington and Lee University
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER, 1935
Vol. XI—No. 2 $2.50 a year

 

 

I ee ee ee RY ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

 

Professional Directory

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni

of the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact

business at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of

specialty or location are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to
place their cards in this directory.

 

 

Gibson Witherspoon William A. Hyman James R. Caskie
Counsellor-at-Law 1909
Attorney-at-Law
100 William Street Attorney-at-Law
204-208 Lawyers Building New York Peoples Bank Building
Meridian, Mississippi @ Lynchburg, Virginia
9 E. C. Caffrey od
1909
Court House
Philip P. Gibson Hackensack, N. J. John H. Tucker, Jr.
1910
Attorney-at-Law
» Tucker and Mason
Marcum and Gibson L On
aw ces
ee a sak
First National Bank Building Carlton D. Dethlefsen Cosienbecidl: Matonsl Rank Bidw:

Suite 916 Nevada Bank Bldg.
14 Montgomery Street

@ San Francisco, California 8
Elwood H. Seal e
w - sea Edmund D. Campbell
Seal and Dice Woodruff and Ward Ceae eS Ser
General practice in the courts of Bruce F. Woodruff, 1916 Attorney-at-Law
the District of Columbia and Wm. A. Ward, Jr., 1930 Douglass, Obéar; Morgan and
Federal Departments Cc bell
<3 : Attorneys-at-Law ampbe
Associate I Tax ialist
See ee ee ae 928 Healey Building Southern Building
Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. Atlanta, Georgia Washington, D. C.
CEM CETL or men

 

 

Laurence Claiborne Witten, 1910

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1507 Union Trust Building, Cincinnati, Ohio

Washington and Lee, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard, Ohio State, Brown, Columbia,

Miami, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from Washington
and Lee Alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appalachian Association
Hagan Minnich, 318 Park Street, Bristol,
Tenn.-Va.

Arkansas Association
Leighton McKinney, 1100 Prospect Ave., Little
Rock.

Atlanta, Georgia
Ewing S. Humphreys, Healey Building.

Baltimore, Maryland
L. W. Milbourne, 3204 St. Paul St.

Birmingham, Alabama
L. R. Hanna, First National Bank Building.

Chastonns, West Virginia
C. W. Hall, Kanawha Valley Bank.
Chattanooga, Tennessee
John D. Stanard, Chattanooga Bank Bldg.
Chicago
John Culley, 422 Hamilton St., Evanston, III.

Cincinnati
Roger J. Bear, Kroger Grocery Co.

Charlotte, North Carolina
Philip F. Howerton, 5238 Fenton Place.

Cumberland Valley Association
C. Wells Little, Negley Building, Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dallas, Texas
A. A. Lander, 803 Marvin Building.

Detroit, Michigan
Dr. Edward Lyons, Parke Davis Co.

Florida West Coast Association
K. I. McKay, Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Fla.

Fort Worth, Texas
E. 8S. McCord, Neil P. Anderson Building,
Ft. Worth.

Gulf Stream Association
Lewis Twyman, Security Building, Miami, Fla,

Jacksonville, Florida
Rhydon Lathem, Greenleaf and Crosby Bldg.

Lynchburg, Virginia
Thos. W. Gilliam, Lynchburg Nat’] Bank Bldg.

Louisville, Kentucky
Edward Rietze, 2063 E. Parkway.

Memphis, Tennessee
John K. Speed, 1159 Linden Avenue.

New York
Edward W. Lee, 13850 Broadway.

New Orleans, Louisiana

Norton Wisdom, 1515 Marengo St.
Norfolk, Virginia

Walter E. Hoffman, Seaboard Bank Bldg.
Northern Louisiana Association

C. C. Hutchinson, Jr., Shreveport.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

E. W. Wilson, 1419 Land Title Building.

Piedmont Association
Larry W. Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
C. P. Robinson, 802 Park Building.

Pocahontas Club

A. L. Tyree, Bluefield, West Virginia.
Roanoke, Virginia

Earl A. Fitzpatrick, State and City Bank Bldg.
Richmond, Virginia

Stuart Sanders, Sanders Bros. Paint Co.

San Antonio, Texas
Albert Steves, Jr., Steves Sash and Door Co.

Southern California
Bryan Bell, Assoc. Press, 1243 Trenton St.

St. Louis, Missouri
John L. Patterson, 552 Pierce Building.

Tri-State Association
Joe W. Dingess, First Huntington National
Bank Building, Huntington, W. Va.

Washington, D. C.
Woodson P. Houghton, Southern Building.

 

 

THE ALUMNI
MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office
at Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924

 

Vol. XI NOVEMBER-DECEMBER, 1935 No. 2

 

TRIE oi ss Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
Managing Editor..RicHARD PowELt CarTEr, 1929

oe

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

FOMMANG OME Sy iso ibe. ik Dr. J. W. Craupy, 1909
Vice-President....H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 1899
SOCTERALY: 5:;....5. Harry K. (“Cy”) Youne, 1917
T VORSIIRS ie M. W. Paxton, Jr., 1918

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Lewis F. Pow tt, 1929
CLARENCE L,. SAGER, 1914
HERBERT JAHNCKE, 1930

Kr WituiaMs, 1915

 

Contents for November-December 1935

PAGE
PUGS OBO as ase ys he UD A-ha | SUNG 3
A Professor Who Looked Far Into the Future.................... 4
A Song, and a Student Came to W. and L............00.0..0.00. 5
A“Reporter Discovers. ‘Almmmnty.;.é.0.6.065. Bick. Aa 7
The Creator of Jiggs Visits the Campus.............0.........000006. 9
Ted Harris—‘‘Reactionary Revolutionist”’..........0....0..00.006. 11
The. Football Season in) Review.) ..2):.000565.080).0 Liki ciisccih dives 14
Local Alumni Association Notes.......:c:::c:sssssssssssessessssesseeeesee 17

lees. eens 5 \ er a a te ie a a 19

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

‘

eee

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Virginia Genealogy—From China!

(The President’s Page)

i CHIEF FEATURE of the commencement of 1843 cultural enterprise. Many years ago Carylyle said it all:

was an address by a distinguished son of this insti-

tution, Archibald Alexander, formerly president of
Hampden-Sydney and at that time president of Prince-
ton Theological Seminary. After pointing out
several ways in which alumni might serve their
alma mater, Dr. Alexander came to his supreme
point, “ . and especially by selecting some
one object connected with her reputation and
interests which they will promote, such, for ex-
ample, as the enlargement of her library.”
Nearly a century later we contemplate with
pleasure the fact that many alumni and
many other friends .. . have followed this ad-

mirable selection.
* ok Ox

On November 21 the University formally

accepted the Ancell collection presented in graceful man-
ner by Wade H. Ellis of Washington, a classmate of Dr.
Ancell. The gift is valuable, and behind it lies one of
the most romantic thoughts possible for such an occa-
sion. Through long decades Dr. Ancell was a missionary
in China. Duty held him at this remote post, but he com-
pensated his homesickness by collecting books about Vir-
ginia genealogy and history, and thousands of miles from
home became almost an authority on this subject. At his
death the books came to his alma mater here in his state
from which he was separated but which he never ceased
to love. se

On that same day the staff of our library arranged a
number of exhibits composed of representative speci-
mens from many of the donations that have been made
to us. It was an extraordinary revelation of the impor-
tance of books now gathered in our library and of the
sources from which these books have come.

ae ge

For the Washington and Lee Library, probably in a
measure which few libraries can boast, has been built out
of the affection of a great number of personalities. The
first contribution, so far as we know, was a gift by
Samuel Houston, alumnus, of a book which he used in
his classes in the year 1779.

ne ie

It is wholly unnecessary at this stage to argue the im-

portance of books in themselves or as the center of any

 

“All that mankind has done, thought, gained, or been, is
lying as in magic preservation in the pages of books.”
Most educators today would agree to the general prin-
ciple that the worthy college experience does
not consist so much in accumulating know-
ledge as it does in learning how to use the in-
struments of knowledge.
ae

But a book may also represent a symbol or
even the incarnation of a great personality.
Milton said years ago that a book is the life-
blood of a master spirit ““embalmed and treas-
ured up on purpose for a life beyond life.’ He
was thinking of the author, of course, but in a
less direct sense a good book may be the life-
blood of some one who is not the author but
who has loved that book and finds in it an expression of
his own deep emotions.

tes

Here is a man who has a passion for Lee, let us say,
who collects books on Lee and then turns the books over
to the library of his alma mater. Actually that man has
done more than increase the resources of the library;
he has actually given a part of himself, one of the finest
parts of himself, to the service of youth in all its bright
cycles. His own enthusiasms and his allegiances become
to this extent immortal in a library that will forever in-
spire his younger brothers in the University circle.

ki, SER.

The proceedings of this evening, together with a
brief list of the exhibits, will probably be printed in a
small pamphlet; and I am sure the library will be glad
to send a copy of this to any alumnus who may be in-
terested.

Speaking of pamphlets, may we add that the Uni-
versity will shortly issue in limited numbers a little
pamphlet paying tribute to the principal benefactors of
this institution. As long as the supply holds out this
pamphlet also will be sent to any alumnus who may write
and indicate his desire to have it.

OS Aa Gua,

President

ee)

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Professor Who Looked Far Into the Future

By W. H. Taytor, A. B., Class of 1873

ROFESSOR CARTER J. Harris joined the Washing-

ton and Lee faculty in 1858, becoming professor
of I,atin on the George Peabody Foundation. He re-
mained on the staff, the records at Washington and Lee
now show, until 1894.

I reached the College on the 9th day of October,
1869. After consultation I was assigned to the class in
intermediate Latin. Thus began my acquaintance with
the Professor which was continued in friendship until
I left Lexington on the first day of August, 1878. As
student and professor I had

“No man knoweth the time or season but signs will
come. The United States is very large and it can absorb
many depreciated dollars but eventually the supply will
be greater than the demand; then gold will disappear
and silver will accumulate in the banks; and the disaster
will come.”

In the summer of 1892 a certain banker bragged of
the large amount of money he had in his vaults ; he knew
the significance no more than I. The condition had come
of which Professor Harris had spoken and the panic

came in the summer of 1893.

 

been connected with the In-
stitution since my entrance. To
the Institution I owe much and
of the much greatly much to
Professor Harris. Throughout
my service he was my friend.
We saw much of each other
and we esteemed each other.
He was the greatest civil-
ian I have ever known; he had
read widely and remembered
what he had read. He was a

 

One of the most unusual articles contrib-
uted to The Alumni Magazine for some time
is given you on this page. It is reprinted par-
ticularly because it has a definite link with
what is happening in the world today, and
shows how a Washington College professor
found similar problems in his day. The au-
thor, W. H. Tayloe, of Uniontown, Alaba-
ma, received an A. B. degree in 1873.

The panic was not dissipated
until the election of President
McKinley brought back the
gold standard. And the Pro-
fessor’s prophecy was true.
The Democrats got con-
trol of the national House of
Representatives in the fall of
1874. Colonel Hilary A. Her-
bert was made chairman of
the committee on naval affairs.
The navy had been greatly
neglected under the adminis-

 

 

disciple of Ecclesiastes ; know-
ing that there was nothing
new under the sun and that the thing that hath been is
the thing that shall be. With Patrick Henry he knew that
the past was the only lantern that lighted the future. He
knew the past and in many cases foretold the future. In
1873 silver was demoneytized in pursuance of the high-
est thought of the day. Professor Harris knew the pol-
icy was right and supported it. By 1875 a great move-
ment had developed for its remoneytization. Of this
movement the chief apostle at the time was the Honor-
able Richard P. Bland of Missouri. Professor Harris
was opposed, Professor White favored the policy. One
day I heard a discussion of the subject between these
very eminent gentlemen.

Professor Harris used the usual argument; that the
cheaper metal would in the end drive out the more val-
uable; that silver if remoneytized would drive out gold;
that business cannot serve two masters; that gold would
lose.

Professor White asked rather scornfully:

“When will these things be?”

tration of President Grant.
The Democrats took up the matter of its improvement
and boasted greatly of what they would do.

Professor Harris was a pacifist. He knew that wars
were futile and that their evils were great both present
and prospective. He deprecated warlike preparation of
any kind and said:

‘No nation ever prepared for war without having it.
Warriors get tired of shooting at inanimate targets and
want the human for their aim.”

The reply was:

“Oh pshaw, the United States will not seek any fight ;
its people wish no more war; besides, whom will it fight
anyway ?”

Replied Professor Harris:

“The nation has long desired Cuba; Spain is the
weakest of European powers; so it will probably use its
equipment on the Spaniard and thereby test its value.”

And in 1898 the United States had its contest with
Spain over Cuba.

(CONTINUED ON PAGE 6)

ey |

 

 

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Song—and a Student Came to W. and L.

Dalia ONE freshman at Washington and Lee this
ay year who enrolled at the University simply because
he liked the Washington and Lee Swing.

His name was kept secret, but he put the informa-
tion down on the little card he signed when new men
were asked to say why they selected the school once
headed by General Lee as their college.
And Dr. Walter A. Flick, head of the
department of psychology and educa-
tion, believes the freshman was sincere
about it and was not merely spoofing.

The information was brought to
light as a result of a survey made under
Dr. Flick’s direction following the psy-
chology tests which the department of
psychology gives all freshmen entering
the University for the first time.

The new men were asked to list
specifically the “reasons for entering
Washington and Lee,” and there were
some other interesting replies in ad-
dition to the one from the student who
said the music of the world-famous
Swing brought him to Lexington. The
“record of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity” was given by 58 freshmen as
their sole reason for choosing the Uni-
versity. Recommendations of friends
brought an even fifty to the campus,
the survey showed; forty-seven selected
the University because of its location.

Fifteen men listed “recommended by alumni’ as the
reason why of their first collegiate undertaking; fifteen
said they were here because their fathers came here also;
and two said it was their parents’ choice that they en-
roll at Washington and Lee.

The “reputation of the School of Journalism’ ac-
counted for the enrollment of seven students; the School
of Commerce, for ten; and the School of Law for eight.
The honor system brought eight men, and the beauty of
the campus was given by three as the deciding factor.

Dr. Flick also listed the vocations mentioned by stu-
dents entering the University this year. Figures showed
106 of them still were undecided what they wanted to
do in life when they entered college last September,
while 41, contrasting with the “reason-why” survey,
said they wanted to enter law.

|

DR. FLICK,

 

Dr. Flick pointed out that the survey could be taken
as only a general measure of accuracy in determining
the new students’ point of view, but emphasized at the
same time that much importance could be attached to
the questions and answers, since they revealed the “‘first
impressions” gained of new men.

The editors of The Alumni Maga-
sine, believing that many former stu-
dents of the institution often wonder
why men are selecting Washington and
Lee, believe Dr. Flick’s survey is of
such interest that they are printing
here his entire tabulation on this year’s
entering class.

Curiously, it will be noted in the
figures given below, no student in the
of 1939 listed athletics
reason for choosing your University
for his own. That despite the five
Southern Conference championships
held by the Generals last year.

class as his

Here is the tabulated survey:

~

REASONS FOR ENTERING W. AND L.

Record of Washington and Lee 58

Recommendation of friends .......... 50

Location 2.202058. RON ke 47

TD reditiee 6s San Re 43

High Standing maintained .............. 39

Psychologist Site. Bch CE Si a i ae 37
No reason mentioned .................... 22

Type of students and professors ..........0000..000000ccee. 21
Recmnmended: by alumnnl 020): 20a a son 15
Pieter cane Mere hs. EE Sa... Ss» 15
Bxcelent Courses offered SOR Se AE 14
Received. senolarenip %8.5...525.0s Es AE Ah 12
Reputation of the School of Commerce .................... 10
Reputation of the School of Law ............0.:cce 8
Broten Satie BOR i. ii. nn dc lakh... stages «; 8
Honor syaten 370: cate) wie BRC eG 7
Reputation of the School of Journalism .................... 7
SOs STITCH COMMS os ooesen crethnnns-deovedin meee Bucd 5
ICRA GT CRRORNGE 9 5a. cds. cot - apes, spd bouetaseoes aca swaes ake cokl 3
Recommended by high school officials .................0..... +
CN 50d «cou dac cava cs adveihcdic -igktheia tne’ aamtaaeda +
Relatives Ware ete: ask. eile. wicca Reni ets 3
Beauty sot CRN) SF isis. Oh a dex at aed 3

5

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Both father and brother came here ............0........06. 2
UNA LN 5 8 4 ch cok ceases MMM Sab Ogee ise sd ba 2
CINE CAs Ai, blal. >: .)schrs eenheeierladvalenceasasi ho Mages 2
S0n On mmeeey member 756.08 ho... Tee «ok iis. eae 2
Strong chemistry department .............5........:::cccsseseeseeee. 1
Washington and Lee Swing music ......................:00005. l

Chosen vocation mentioned by students entering in

September, 1935:

Foreign trade ............ 3
REIMAN 0 2055 ba ehei3) RO > REINO SAA Ze 3
Bt ce PS dh aka Al Brokegage as... 2
ne Fi Te ors, 2
COMMMETCE: .0i..2,-/.::4deus Co i: POIEMOTNt Sega 2
TORII ts oe, be) Pharmacy °. ia. 2
CE i os diiecdabes Be ‘hy PRRRO addi. - eee Glass 2
Manufacturing ............ a3 Denti@ery ) jot or as 1
PIES Nici Casalatiatess 9 Diplomatic service .... 1
ng a ae Fs PSNR cee tas os 1
Engineering ................ DRONE no. utes 1
Advertising ................. isi: Renn So eee 1
No vocation listed ... 6 Insurance .................... ]
ACCOMTUER 66 4cks-.5 003-3 o';. Pulligping odie ck oc). 1

 

About Professor Harris

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4)

And the prophecy and its fulfillment came back into
mind.

It is true that the nation did not take over Cuba; the
extra grand assertions by the President of disinterested-
ness prevented such action.

Just so much in memory; not all by any means; but
enough to show the wonderful attainments of the man.

He was one of the best men I ever knew. He was
without low instinct or conversation. He climbed the
heights and left all earthly stain far below.

I could say so much of him; but after all the sum-
mation is that he was my friend, and he had and has my
love and affection. No other man was ever half so good
to me. After many years I lay this tribute on his tomb
and say that there never was a kinder, nobler, manlier
man.

“Were every one

For whom he had some loyal service done
To lay a bloom upon his tomb,

Or shed a tear upon his bier,

He would pass his sleeping hours
Beneath a wilderness of flowers.”

What I am saying above is said in fulfillment of a
vow made many years ago to pay some tribute to the

men who made possible to me a somewhat successful
career. I begin with Professor Harris. The other day
Mrs. Tayloe found an old letter to my father from the
Professor. This discovery brings the Professor to my
mind.

But there were others. Let us go over their names.

General Lee of course. Later I hope to say something
of his wonderful influence over the students.

Professors White, Harris, Nelson, McCullough, Al-
lan, Johnston, Kirkpatrick, Joynes. All great men. I re-
member them all so pleasantly. They were all so good
to me.

In my very humble judgment I doubt if an abler
set of men were ever gathered together at one time in
any one place. Still humbly judging, the only body of
men to compare with it was the first cabinet of President
Cleveland. The members of the faculty were very wise
men and their sayings of wisdom are yet remembered.

To me the body is comparable to the Wise Men of
Greece; but they were never gathered into one company.

Like the Pyramids of Cheops they stand high above
the Sahara of the day.

“Their bones are dust,
Their swords are rust,
Their souls are with the Saints we trust.”

Such men cease to breathe, they can never die.

 

— Sse,
as

ee.

REID HALL

bP

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

A Reporter Discovers Alumni

By RicHarp PowELL CARTER

son, although I dislike first person stories. But I
know no other way to spin the yarn I want to spin for
you. So if you'll forgive the use of any number of “I's,”
and the fact that what you're about to read is built around
personal experiences, I'll tell a tale of alumni who have
literally taken possession of one of the most historic cap-
itol hill spots in the United States.

Being a newspaperman, I was homesick for the clatter
of typewriters, the whirl of presses and the smell of
burning mats when the scholastic year ended last June.
[ had come back to Washington and Lee to teach jour-
nalism, and direct publicity, after some six years of
newspaper work. Night newspaper work at that; and
you know, if you’ve ever sat with your feet on the rim
of a copy desk at three in the morning, that night news-
paper work is a disease from which men seldom recover.

So as soon as Finals of 1935 ended I joined the staff
of the Associated Press in Richmond and was assigned
to cover the state capitol.

First I met one of the three state corporation com-
missioners, Leslie Hooker, formerly chairman of that
important body. He was a Washington and Lee grad-
uate, and one day later in the summer I walked into his
office and found there Paul Sanford, now a Danville,
Va., attorney, star of football teams little over a decade
ago at Washington and Lee. That’s the way it was. One
alumnus after the other all summer long.

The governor was not in the city when I first started
a familiar routine around the state offices, so one of the
next offices to which I made my way was that of the
state tax commissioner. I met C. H. Morrissett, the tax
commissioner, a Washington and Lee man.

A few days later an assignment took me to the office
of the attorney general of Virginia. I met the attorney
general, Abram P. Staples, Washington and Lee alumnus.

One of the things a newspaperman must do on his

Se sToRY is going to be written in the first per-

first time around a “beat,” although he has covered it
before, is answer questions about himself. I went through
the mill because it so happened that I was taking over
the job of a man who had established himself as typical
of the ideal of good newspaper work General Lee must
have had in mind when he started collegiate instruction
in journalism at Washington College. I answered ques-
tions about myself, and explained that I was on the

Washington and Lee faculty, that I was back in news-
paper work for the summer because I liked it so much
I just had to get back. They wanted to know much about
me because they liked my predecessor so well and held
so much confidence in him. (He had been sent to a Wash-
ington job. )

These Washington and Lee alumni were as eager for
campus news as I was for state news. They pounced on
the opportunity and I answered a thousand and one
questions about the campus—answered them willingly
and encouraged more of them.

After a week or so the governor came back to the
city, and I went to his office. There I met Governor
George Campbell Peery of Virginia, native of Tazewell,
graduate of Washington and Lee, member of the Uni-
versity board of trustees. The lieutenant-governor, James
H. Price, I also found to be an enthusiastic alumnus.

The list of alumni encountered, most pleasantly, dur-
ing the summer is long. Chief among those I met and
grew to like very much was Wilbur C. Hall, chairman
of the Virginia State Conservation and Development
Commission, a highly important state body. I was fortu-
nate enough to be able to write the first stories of one
of his fine undertakings, a talking picture showing his-
toric spots of the Old Dominion.

Another was John Q. Rhodes, Jr., commissioner of
motor vehicles. Still another with whom I came in con-
tact often was Robert E. Steele, assistant assessor of the
State Corporation Commission.

Not so very long ago The Alumni Magazine, before
I came to Washington and Lee, carried an article on
alumni in the public service of Virginia. Mr. Morrissett,
at my request, has made corrections and additions to
that list.

“T am satisfied,’ Mr. Morrissett said in compiling the
list, ‘that some alumni have been overlooked. I have not
attempted to include in this list any congressmen, nor
any teacher in any of the state educational institutions.
Local officers and employes, such as attorneys for the
commonwealth, have been excluded.”

The list would run into many pages if all alumni of
Washington and Lee in the service of the Old Dominion
were included. The list printed here includes primarily
those men on capitol hill in Richmond. Here they are:

ed

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Apperson, Harvey Black, State Senator.

Arnold, Robert Watson, Examiner of Records.

Bandy, Henry Matthew, Member, House of Delegates.

Barrow, Emory Powell, Member, House of Delegates.

Beale, Ernest Linwood, Examiner of Records.

Buchanan, Archibald Chapman, Circuit Judge.

Burks, Charles Edward, State Senator.

Cather, Thomas Russell, State Senator.

Connor, Cecil, State Senator.

Conrad, Bryan, with Commission on Conservation and
Development.

Dickinson, Burt L., State Senator.

Eggleston, John William, Justice, Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals.

Glasgow, Joseph Anderson, Circuit Judge.

Gregory, Herbert B., Justice, Supreme Court of Appeals.

Haden, Benjamin, Jr., Circuit Judge.

Hall, Wilbur Curtis, Chairman, State Commission on
Conservation and Development.

Halsey, Don Peters, Circuit Judge.

Handley, Charles Overton, with Department of Game
and Inland Fisheries.

Hodges, LeRoy, Member, Prison Board.

Holt, Henry Winston, Justice, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals.

Hooker, Henry Lester, Member, State Corporation Com-
mission.

Hopkins, Abram Hancock, Circuit Judge.

Hutcheson, Robert Francis, Circuit Judge.

Keister, Thurston Lantz, Circuit Judge.

Lively, Alonzo G., Circuit Judge.

Moore, Frank, Member, House of Delegates.

Moore, Stuart, Examiner of Records.

Morrissett, Carlisle Havelock, State Tax Commissioner.

Moss, Charles Wesley, Member, House of Delegates.

Oast, Edward Linscott, Member, House of Delegates
and Examiner of Records.

Oliver, John B., Member, House of Delegates.

Page, Vivian Llewellyn, Member, House of Delegates
and Chairman Committee for Courts of Justice.

Peery, George Campbell, Governor of Virginia.

Price, James Hubert, Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia.

Rhodes, John Quincy, Jr., Director, Division of Motor
Vehicles.

Saunders, Peter, Secretary to the Commonwealth and
Secretary to Governor.

Scott, Walter H., Member, House of Delegates.

Staples, Abram Penn, Attorney General of Virginia.

Steele, Robert Edward, Assistant Assessor, State Cor-
poration Commission.

Sutherland, Horace, Circuit Judge.

Tuck, William Munford, State Senator.

Walter, Jefferson Francis, State Senator.

White, Benjamin Dey, Circuit Judge.

Wickham, Henry T., State Senator.

Wright, William Alfred, State Senator.

Wyant, Herbert Wilson, Examiner of Records.

 

A Valuable Portrait of Lee

AN ENGRAVING of General Robert E. Lee that was
presented to Charles Francis Adams when he delivered
the Lee Centennial address at Lexington in 1907 has
come back to the campus and will be displayed as one
of the University’s most treasured possessions.

The engraving was returned to the University after
the death of Adams’ widow last March. It hung over the
mantelpiece of Charles Francis Adams in Washington,
and after his death it was taken to the house he had
occupied at Lincoln, Massachusetts. When the house was
being dismantled, the engraving was “discovered,” and
pinned on the back of it was a note penned by Charles
Francis Adams. The note tells the story:

“This portrait-photograph of General Lee is unique.
It is the only impression known to have been made of
the last photograph taken of him. General Lee objected
to having his picture taken, and this sitting was excep-
tional. It was given to me by Mr. Campbell, the secre-
tary of Washington and Lee University, on January 22,
1907, on the occasion of my delivering the Lee Centen-
nial address at Lexington. It has previously stood in the
room of the treasurer of the University.”

The note is signed “Charles F. Adams” and dated
March 31, 1909.

 

MELvIN H. Kempton, class of 1932, is supervisor of
adult education in the department of education at Yon-
kers, New York. He will publish soon a journal on adult
education.

 

Dick FAULKNER, class of 1934, has been named as-
sistant program manager of radio station WIS at Co-
lumbia, $. C. He formerly was stock reporter for sta-
tion KDKA at Pittsburgh.

 

ACCORDING to a survey made by The Ring-tum Phi,
there are 145 alumni listed in the most recent edition
of “Who's Who in America.” The names of thirty of
these alumni are appearing for the first time in the book.
Men high in the political and business life of the nation
are among the 145 former Washington and Lee students
honored by the editors of “Who's Who.”

[ 8 ]

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Creator of Jiggs Visits the Campus

By Osmonp T. BAXTER
Student in Journalism at Washington and Lee

She ELEVENTH annual convention of the Southern

pus November 22 and 23 under the auspices of the Lee

Interscholastic Press Association held on the cam-

School of Journalism attracted a record attendance of
from high and _ preparatory
South. Under the direction of

140 delegates delegates
schools throughout the
O. W. Riegel, head of
journalism at Wash-
ington and Lee, news-
paper, magazine and
discussions
and

annual
were conducted
practical problems of
scholastic editors were
taken up both in round-
table groups and by na-
tionally known news-
paper men.

Established in 1924
Roscoe B. Ellard,
former of
journalism at Wash-

by
director

ington and Lee, for
the purpose of raising
and maintaining the
standards of scholastic
journalism in the high
schools of the South,
the §. Ge rs:
shown constant

has
a
growth.
celebration of

the twenty-fifth anni-

versary of the creation of “Bringing up Father,’’ George
McManus, originator of Maggie and Jiggs, cut a birth-
day cake for his world-famous pen and ink characters at
the Quill and Scroll banquet sponsored by Maury high
school, Norfolk, Va., Friday night.

In
MCMANUS CUTS A BIRT

Mr. McManus said that his character Jiggs was mod-
eled after Bill Barry, an actor in “The Rising Genera-
tion” twenty-five years ago. He briefly traced in a lecture
at lee Chapel a newspaper career that began at the age
of thirteen when his father took him to the St. Louis,
Mo., Republic to get a job. In a talk interspersed with

 

HDAY CAKE AT S. I.

9

humorous incidents and the actual sketching of his char-
acters, Mr. McManus pointed out the difficulties en-
countered by a cartoonist in making the strips conform
to modern demands.

The keynote of the convention was sounded Friday
morning by Frank E. Mason, of New York, vice-presi-
dent of the National
Broadcasting Com-
pany, who presented
a short talk on “Radio
and the News.” Ma-
son urged the develop-
ment of self-discipline
and the gathering of
a knowledge of world
affairs as essential to

good newspaper work.

C. C. Harvey, of
Washington, assistant
director of the divis-
ion of publications,
National Education
Association, declared
in an address on “*Pio-
neering in School
Journalism” that the
time has arrived for a
“new journalism” in
America.

“Although we have
better newspapers and
magazines than any
other country in the
world,” he said, “there is still a need for a press with

gee

higher standards.”

In a talk at the Quill and Scroll banquet Friday night,
Dick Hyman, of New York, of King Features syndi-
cate, outlined the dangers encountered by news reel and
newspaper photographers and discussed the technique of
photography.

Sylvan Hoffman, of New York, president of Hoff-
man Publications, talked Saturday morning on “Oppor-
tunities in Trade Journalism” giving an outline of trade
journalism and a consideration of the types of publica-

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

tions in relation to functionalism, timeliness, circulation
and mechanical appearance. He briefly summarized the
opportunities in the business, editorial, production and
circulation departments and concluded by reminding his
audience that aesthetic values are also one of the rewards
of work on a trade journal.

Following Mr. Hoffman’s address, Thomas L. Stokes,
Washington correspondent for The New York World-
Telegram, spoke on “Covering Washington,” stressing
the point that a Washington reporter must ‘“‘look behind
the news.”

“A Washington correspondent’s education begins,”
Mr. Stokes said, “when he learns to trace the line that
leads backward from the men and measures on the floor
of Congress to the hidden influences behind and beyond.”

At a banquet Saturday night at the R. E. Lee hotel,
climaxing the two-day session, Mark Ethridge, publisher
of The Richmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch, was presented
to the delegates by Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee University. In his introductory re-
marks, Dr. Gaines alluded to the appropriateness of hold-
ing the convention in Lexington, as it was at Washington
College that General R. E. Lee founded the first col-
legiate instruction of journalism in the world. Mr. Eth-
ridge, who prior to the banquet had been initiated as an
honorary member of the Washington and Lee chapter
of Sigma Delta Chi, stated that the man who goes into
journalism must now enter it as a profession.

“Newspapers are trying to establish responsibility,
integrity, accuracy and professional skill as standards for
their men,” Mr. Ethridge said. “The publishers them-
selves must assume the blame for past and present stand-
ards in the news rooms. In this day most newspapers
require, whether by direction or the indirection of set-
ting standards, that their men shall be college men. They
have spent years in preparation, but in too many cases,
when they have served their apprenticeship, they still
draw pay slightly higher than the galley boys.”

Other features of the convention included an infor-
mal dance Friday night, a trip to historic Natural Bridge,
and the showing of a movie, “I'll Tell the World,” star-
ring Lee Tracy. The delegates included representatives
from West Virginia, Florida, North Carolina, Virginia,
Maryland, Kentucky, Tennessee, the District of Co-
lumbia and Mississippi.

Paul Early, editor of The Black and Gold, R. J. Rey-
nolds high school, Winston-Salem, N. C., was elected
honorary student president of the association for the
coming year.

For outstanding value in their respective fields, ten
publications were awarded silver loving cups at the ban-
quet Saturday night. John Britt, Goldsboro high school,
Goldsboro, N. C., and Royall Brandis, John Marshall

high school, Richmond, Va., tied for first place in the
current events contest held Friday morning under the
auspices of the Washington and Lee chapter of Sigma
Delta Chi.

The winners of the 1935 newspaper contest were:

Crass A—The Jeffersonian, Thomas Jefferson high
school, Richmond, Va. Honor rating: The Chatterbox,
George Washington high school, Danville, Va., and The
Rambler, Central high school, Charlotte, N. C.

Crass B—The Greenville News, Greenville high
school, Greenville, S. C. Honor rating: The Montgomery
Siren, Montgomery high school, Montgomery, W. Va.

Crass C—The Orange and Black, Central high
school, Lanaconing, Md. Honor rating: The Coal Dig-
ger, Gary high school, Gary, W. Va.

CLiass D—The Gossip, Greenbrier high school, Ron-
ceverte, W. Va. Honor rating: The Hornet, Valley high
school, Hot Springs, Va.

Winners in the magazine contest were:

Crass A—The Acorn, Jefferson high school, Roa-
noke, Va. Honor rating: The Record, John Marshall
high school, Richmond, Va.

CLiass B—The Critic, E. C. Glass high school, Lynch-
burg, Va.

CLiass C—The Record, Robert E. Lee high school,
Staunton, Va.

Winners in the annuals contest were:

Ciass A—The Marshallite, John Marshall high
school, Richmond, Va. Honor rating: The Acorn, Jef-
ferson Senior high school, Roanoke, Va.

CLrass B—The Chain, Lane high school, Charlottes-
ville, Va. Honor rating: The Critic-Crest, E. C. Glass
high school, Lynchburg, Va.

Crass C—The Brier Patch, Greenbrier Miuilitary
Academy, Lewisburg, W. Va. Honor rating: The Record,
R. E. Lee high school, Staunton, Va.

 

PRESIDENTS HOME

[ 10 ]

 

oe i in etl

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Ted Harris—Reactionary Revolutionist’’

By C. Gripert Norton

EFORE I reveal what a “Reactionary Revolutionist”

is I shall tell you who he is. He is Edward Peyton
Harris, Washington and Lee, 1923; although you'll not
find his name in that form on the Delta Upsilon rolls.

Born George Edward Harris, he discovered early in
his invasion of the playwriting precincts of Broadway
(New York City) that there was another George Ed-
ward Harris writing plays. Investigating, he came to
the conclusion that this writer’s product was almost as
bad as his own, so he changed his name to Edward Pey-
ton Harris. As proof that this has complicated matters
no end it develops that he is familiarly known as “Ted”
and never called ‘‘George” or “Edward” by his friends,
who have gradually increased in number as he outlives
his undergraduate reputation.

Harris’ childhood, leading right up to the college por-
tals—and even through—was pleasantly rural. The orig-
inal Edward Harris emigrated from Wales about 1740
with a grant from the Crown, and settled in the heart
of Virginia. A typical Baptist preacher who liked to fish,
he soon moved to what now has become North Carolina

. where the fishing is better.

These rural parts met the gaze of Edward the X (or
maybe it’s the XIIth generation) on January 23, 1902.
During his school days he continued rural and _ lonely
for he always was at the head of his class in the Green-
ville High school. In fact the habit of heading up the
class persisted through Washington and Lee, for his Phi
Beta Kappa computation was something like 94.5 for
the four years. Harris will tell you, without a modest
blush, that he was not a “grind” although he offers no
proof except that he helped found The Mink, a hope-
fully humorous magazine and was its art editor and chief
contributor; he helped to found the Petty-players, a
“serious” dramatic organization; he was one of the
founders of the Arcades Club—later the Washington
and Lee Chapter of Delta Upsilon. And, in his senior
year Harris contributed to the yearbook, The Calyx, and
taught a double class in elementary French.

Even in those days, Harris was a reactionary revo-
lutionist. Arcades Club was a protest against what its
members—and some faculty advisers—thought improper
conditions among some of the other fraternities on the
campus. However, despite being reformers and despite
having an average that entitled it practically to rank as

a sub-order of Phi Beta Kappa, Arcades prospered. Har-
ris wasn’t popular with fellow Arcadians, though; for
two years he served as house-manager and collected
board and rent bills.

Harris didn’t regret his non-athletic activities until
his senior year when he just missed the Rhodes Scho-
larship. However, he won a University Scholarship at
Harvard. Wishing to enter Professor Baker’s 47 Work-
shop and not knowing it was a professional course, Har-
ris wrote his first play, sent one copy to Professor Baker,
entered one copy in a contest, and submitted one copy to
a magazine. Professor Baker accepted him on the strength
of this play. It won the contest. And the magazine pub-
lished it. He has never since written anything one-third
so successful. |

At Harvard he did two years, or maybe three, of
work in one year. He was assured that nobody from
Washington and Lee had ever got an A. M. at Harvard
in one year and nobody from anywhere had ever got an
A. M. and taken the Workshop in one year. Harris had
to get that degree and earn his living. He got it—cwm
laude! And Mr. Baker asked him the very first one to
return for the advanced course in play-writing—which
one could take only by invitation from Mr. Baker.

But then Mr. Harkness and a million dollars enticed
Mr. Baker to Yale; so Harris went to Brown to teach
English. The next year, 1926, Mr. Baker obtained for
him a part-time teaching job at Yale, so that he could
continue in the transplanted Workshop. He was assistant
instructor in the Shakespeare course for juniors and
seniors; he alsu taught an experimental class in com-
position for freshmen.

Augustin Duncan, then producing plays, accepted
Harris’ comedy, “No Hidin’ Place.” Mr. Duncan’s eye-
sight failing, Harris found himself assisting Mr. Dun-
can in staging a Pirandello play instead of his own. Har-
ris next started acting in a little gem called “Romancing
"Round,” which was tried out in New England but flop-
ped when it reached Broadway. After this stab at pro-
ducing and acting, teaching began to look more attractive
than ever, and so our errant brother secured a full pro-
fessorship in the pre-legal department of the New Jer-
sey Law School. He taught English, of course, not law.

After the Law School episode—Harris is rather in-
definite about dates—our busy brother spent six months

[ 11 |

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

in Europe studying languages (and other things.) He
wrote a comedy called ‘These Emotional French” and
worked on a novel for which he had been commissioned
by Liveright. He also contracted to produce a play writ-
ten by Hans Gottwald and sat through rehearsals of
Owen Davis’ play “Spring Is Here,” being produced by
William Harris—not a relative, and in truth not even
a member of the same race. Sitting through rehearsals
between William Harris and Owen Davis was an exper-
ience calculated to broaden one’s views and shatter one’s
nerves.

Envisioning himself near rope’s end, Harris fled to
Maine and wrote another novel—and several plays. Per-
haps here is a good place to record that he has written
at least twenty three-act plays; maybe more. But before
he could end it all, a series of frantic telegrams from
Maurine Watkins brought him back to New York for
rehearsals of her play, “An Old-Fashioned Girl.”

One day early in 1929, Harris was lunching with an
old Brown friend, Bruce Chapman. It developed that
Mr. Chapman’s mother was on the radio under the name
of Ida Bailey Allen, and she invited our brother to broad-
cast. He spent four and a half years in the studio.

He began as editor of the published weekly maga-
zine, Radio Home-Makers. Soon he was writing and
editing radio programs, and broadcasting some of them.
Harris in the four and a half years had about two mil-
lion of his words scattered across this fair land of ours;
sometimes as a speaker in his own “column of the air”
Behind the Microphone; sometimes as an actor; some-
times as a perplexed home-maker. He was perplexed,
anyhow. He wrote on every kind of subject, from cook-
ing to beauty culture; and, on the side, conducted an
etiquette department for a magazine. This worked well,
because he wrote in all the questions himself, and never
asked himself anything to which he didn’t know the
answer.

We shall treasure for posterity the item that one of
his announcements for Coca-Cola in a test at Cincinnati
alone elicited forty thousand telephone calls in one hour.

The most exciting job in all these four years was
adapting The Plutocrat, The Farmer's Wife, Macbeth,
and The Taming of the Shrew for Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Coburn to broadcast—and appearing on the air with this
famous couple.

There was so much work that Harris scarcely ap-
preciated happenings in their true value; ghost-writing
for Mrs. Allen ;—a syndicate or two, bits for the pub-
licity department, newspaper articles. One page in a New
York paper drew forth four thousand fan-letters, a rec-
ord for that sheet. He was also teaching microphone tech-
nique at the Theodoro Irvine School of the Theatre ;
and occasionally he lectured at Town Hall Club and at

Columbia University—before the Writers’ Club and
graduate students.

Came the depression! Mrs. Allen’s radio activities
were curtailed—Harris left one afternoon with the prom-
ise that he’d get a call in a day or so. He has never
been back!

He free-lanced for a time, and then took charge of
manuscripts and wrote the commercial announcements
for radio accounts of the Blackman Advertising Agency.
He boasts that the week he took over commercials on
the Ivory Soap program, the fan mail jumped from ten
thousand letters to eleven thousand. (But in secret he
worries about the cause and fears it was just a coinci-
dence. )

He was informal press-agent for Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Coburn’s Institute of the Theatre and Mohawk
Drama Festival held at Union College July 1 to August
24, this year.

Last January, L. Bamberger & Company, owners of
radio station WOR, staged a radio tournament of “‘little
theatre’ groups of New Jersey. Sixty groups signed up
for try-out auditions and only twelve could be selected.

So Bamberger commissioned our “skittish” brother
to write a six-minute radio skit so tough that only the
best actors could act it. He wrote one. It had seven char-
acters, four dialects, and ran the gamut of every known
emotion. It did the trick. The forty-eight weaker groups
were quickly eliminated.

The tournament started and Brother Harris wrote
originals or adapted plays for the twelve plays that were
broadcast in that many weeks. A prize of $200, offered
for the best performance, was won by the Chatham Com-
munity Players who acted Harris’ adaptation of Booth
Tarkington’s Beauty and the Jacobin. Second place was
won by Harris’ original Murder at Eighty Miles Per
Hour, and third place went to another original radio
sketch, Bankrupt, in which Harris collaborated. ‘The
tournament was a huge success judged by the hundreds
of letters received from all over the country. The Gov-
ernor-General of Bermuda invited the winning group to
Bermuda where a “command” performance was given
June 11.

Since finishing the Bamberger assignment, Harris
has been collaborating with Marina Yurlova (authoress
of Cossack Girl), who served in the Russian Army as a
common soldier from the time she was fourteen until
the revolution. He also has been collaborating with H.
C. Engelbrecht, the German author of Merchants of
Death, on stories and movie scripts.

These influences must have revived Brother Harris’
half-hearted efforts to start “The Capitalistic Theatre.”
Sick of the deluge of propaganda from Communistic
theatre groups which insist that the theatre must har-

[ 12 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

————

row, torture, starve and kill; reasoning that Shakespeare
did none of these things, Harris turns reactionary revo-
jutionist and plans a group to end all groups; a party of
militant capitalists, to be called “The Capitalists, Incor-
porated,” to produce “nice plays for nice people.” The
project is based upon the idea that maybe the theatre
can do the one thing the Communists left out—entertain !

Harris’ project plans to define a Capitalist, not as
one who has money, but as one who believes in money.
A member of the Junior League has volunteered to sit
in the box office and pass on applications for tickets.
Critics will wear large badges, so that nobody will mis-
take them for nice people. And if no Communist of his
own free will throws a bomb, Harris stands ready to
hire one at two-fifty a throw—his only contribution to
the Red Cause. People are flocking to join the move-
ment. All Harris needs is a couple of capitalists with a
couple of dollars.

This final venture is not astounding, however. Blood
will tell. Remember the original Edward Harris, Baptist
minister and pioneer. Of course Harris is not a Baptist
minister. He isn’t even a Baptist. But he does like to fiish.
—Reprinted by permission from the D. U. Quarterly.

 

The Troubadour Theatre Opens

Te Trousapours, Washington and Lee dramatic
organization, will present “The Merchant of Venice”
December 11, 12 and 13 as their first production in the
new university theatre.

The new playhouse, formerly the Troubadour work-
shop, stands at the corner of Main and Henry streets,
just across from the main entrance to the Washington
and Lee campus. Remodeling work will be completed
in time for rehearshal before the opening night Decem-
ber 11.

The theatre will seat approximately 250 persons, and
all plays probably will be given three nights so that all
members of the student body and visitors can see the
production.

Members of the cast of “The Merchant of Venice”
include :

Harry Fitzgerald of Tulsa, Okla., Lewis McMurran
of Newport News, Va., Vincent Martire of Pelham,
New York, and Douglass Lund of Lexington, Va., who
will play the leading roles.

Other members of the cast are: Bill Karraker of
Louisville, Ky.; Jack Landman of New York City; F.
P. Gaines, Jr. of Lexington, Va.; Don Cushman of Wel-
lesley Hills, Mass.; Stratton Bruce of Cumberland, Md. ;
Stewart Johnson of Cincinnati, Ohio; J. C. Paera of
Camden, N. J.; Ed Metcalf of Covington, Ky.; Bill

Hostetter of Flossmoor, Ill.; John Nicrosi of Montgom-
ery, Ala.; and Tim Landvoigt of Washington, D. C.

Rehearsals are under the direction of L. E. Watkin,
professor of English and faculty director of the Trou-
badours.

 

Riegel Writes New Book

A BIOGRAPHY of James Jesse Strang, who was
known as the “Moses of the Mormons,” written by O.
W. Riegel, head of the Lee School of Journalism at
Washington and Lee university, was published Octo-

ber 29.

The book, titled ““Crown of Glory,” is the second by
Mr. Riegel in the past year. He wrote the widely ac-
claimed ‘Mobilizing for Chaos,” a story of the new
propaganda, last fall. The book dealt with propaganda
as it affects the press of the United States and Europe,
and led to a three-months tour of Europe this summer
during which time the author made more detailed studies
of factors involved in collection and distribution of news.
Both books are published by the Yale press.

“Crown of Glory” tells of the interesting life of
Strang, one of the “most astonishing of recurrent relig-
ious prophets,” Mr. Riegel said. He combined religious
leadership, political science, oratory and “‘boundless am-
bition” in his career.

Breaking off from the parent body of Mormons,
Strang provided his own set of brass tablets to. establish
his claims to semi-divinity, and took his followers to
a ‘“never-never” land, which happened to be Beaver Is-
land, Michigan, the books points out. There he founded
a kingdom and battled against gentiles and “all the
forces of evil.”

Mr. Riegel said today that he became interested in
the life of this unusual character some years ago, and
that he had been working on the story of his achieve-
ments for some time.

Strang’s throne, it-is pointed out in “Crown of
Glory,” was surrounded by a group of charlatans, be-
lievers and devoted women. At first he preached ser-
mons against polygamy, but when the “dark Elvira’
crossed his path he arranged for a new revelation which
not only provided for her, but enthusiastically recom-
mended a doctrine of plural marriages. Strang had many
wives, the book says.

In “Crown of Glory” Mr. Riegel says that the uni-
que Mormon leader was ‘‘a clear example of the not in-
frequent American phenomena of a ‘religious leader’
like Harlem’s ‘Father Divine’ and of a political dema-
gogue like Louisiana’s Huey P. Long.”

[ 13 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

The Football Season In Review

By RicHARD POWELL CARTER

ISASTER overtook the Generals of the gridiron this mond October 5, and it was a blow from which the de-
fall, not through any fault of their own, not through fending titlists never recovered, although two weeks later
any fault of those who they seemed well on the
coached Washington comeback trail. Out at
and Lee to two cham- Louisville, Ky., playing
pionships last fall, but in the rain and mud, Tex
through a combination of if Tilson’s eleven smashed
circumstances that persisted Centre college 14-7, get-
throughout the season. ting back into the spotlight

There was, first of all, the un- oe. of gridiron activity.
expected loss of giant Tubby Ow- E ; ae y 3 Then came a trip to Blue-
ings, 220-pound tackle who had all- (ae ab oa EF field, West Virginia, for a game
American possibilities. He was taken with Virginia Tech-on alien soil.
ill just as the training camp opened out and the Generals had a decidedly
at Nimrod Hall, and didn’t get into off-day and took a 15-0 beating
uniform all season. That’s the way the froman inspired aggregation of Gob-
season started, a season marked by the blers, as active on the field that day as
loss of some of the great players of a gobbler eluding the ax on Thanksgiv-
1934, players whose places were ex- ing day. That made two defeats in two
tremely difficult to fill. conference clashes, both of them meted

There is no effort to alibi for a out by teams playing a brand of football
schedule that brought three victories, that few elevens could encounter.
four defeats and one tie. A football
season is a football season, and those
who know their way about the grid-
irons of the nation know that even the
greatest of teams have their off-years.

Washington and Lee, in 1935, had
an off-year.

The Generals started with an 18-0
victory here over Wofford college of
South Carolina, and curiously enough
it was on a trip to the capital of the
-almetto state that the team took a 2-0

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

Following the Virginia Tech disap-
pointment, the Generals journeyed out to
Charleston for the annual West Virginia
classic, and found a tough band of Moun-
taineers awaiting them. West Virginia,
heavier and boasting hardy substitute
power, won the game 20-0, staging a par-
ticularly spectacular drive in the last half.

After that, with things looking pretty
bad, the Generals came back in A-1 style
and put on a show on Wilson field that
delighted every Washington and Lee sup-
licking in the last game of the season porter in a large Homecoming day crowd.
November 23. That same waa In that show, Washington and Lee
game, played Thanksgiving SE oeensS © Samet trampled on the University of Vir-
day of 1934, clinched the ee . ginia 20-0, with Joe Arnold, quar-
Southern conference title terback, running through the Cav-
aliers almost at will, and with ev-
ery member of the team playing
excellent football. The Cavaliers
took a tremendous licking, and it
seemed that the Generals were
‘eally on the comeback trail.

last year, if you'd like to go
in for reminiscing.

Duke university’s power-
ful Blue Devils, winners of
all their games but two this
year, took Washington and
Lee for a 26-0 ride at Rich- BILL ELLIS, PUNTER The following week-end Wash-

[ 14 |

=. Se —_,

(Beek ee oe. nt nail

 

0d ve 6 i ae

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

ARNOLD, TOP, AND BAILEY

ington and Lee played at Maryland’s homecoming
day affair, wading through mud and rain and
cold weather, battling with their backs to the goal
posts in the first half, smashing the Terps in the
last quarter, and getting a 0-0 tie. The game was
featured by the superlative kicking of Bill Ellis,
who staved off repeated threats in the first half.
The game was marked also by the fine work of
the Generals’ line in crucial moments, the sturdy
linemen stiffening once on the one-foot marker
to turn back an infuriated Maryland eleven.

The South Carolina game was moved up to
November 23 in order to avoid a conflict with the
Furman-Clemson game, and the Generals found
the Gamecocks, who have had a not-so-good sea-
son, all primed and set to do battle in unexpected-
ly tough fashion. A blocked kick when Ellis tried
to boot one from behind the goal line told the
tale, and spelled the 2-O margin of victory for the
Gamecocks. It was traditional sweet revenge for
the South Carolina outfit.

That ended the season. But there are a few
things to recall in particular:

One is the spectacular kicking of Bill Ellis.
During the season, his last, Ellis got off such tre-
mendous boots that crowds frequently stood on
their collective toes to see just how far the ball
was travelling. The height of that kicking per-
formance probably was reached in the Maryland
game, when the Ashland, Kentucky, lad averaged
51 yards in the mud, and got off several punts
that carried over seventy yards.

And there has been the fine playing of Hugo
Bonino, the 240-pound tackle and guard from
Hawthorne, N. J. Bonino was in a majority of the
plays run by and against the Generals this season.

Those two provided the highlights of the sea-
son from the individual spectacular viewpoint,
with Joe Arnold showing bursts of power and
speed with long runs in the Centre and Virginia
games.

Captain Jack Bailey, a Kentuckian like Ellis
and Arnold, played an excellent defensive game
throughout the season, and smashed Maryland
for fine gains.

Ellis, Arnold, Bonino, and Bailey have played
their last games for Washington and Lee. So have
Ed Seitz, a dependable center, regular this year ;
George Lowry, halfback, from Clinton, Okla. ;
and Charlie Sweet, fine reserve man from Bronx-
ville, N. Y.

This seems an appropriate time to say things
about the 1936 season, the schedule particularly.

[ 15 ]

 

BONINO, TOP, AND SEITZ

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

The 1936 season will open at Lexington, September
26, with another game with Wofford of South Carolina
on Wilson field. The Army, which has not been played
since 1916, will be met at West Point October 3; on Oc-
tober 10 the Generals will play West Virginia in the
traditional and colorful classic at Charleston. The fol-
lowing week-end, October 17, Kentucky will come to
Lexington to resume the series that was interrupted this
year. Next week-end, October 24, Washington and Lee
will travel across the Blue Ridge to Charlottesville to
tackle the Cavaliers, and on October 31 again will play
Duke university in Richmond. November 7 will be Home-
coming day, with Virginia Tech coming over from
Blacksburg to play on Wilson field.

November 14 the Generals and the Indians of Wil-
liam and Mary will clash at Norfolk, opening up a new
stadium in the seaport city of the Old Dominion.

The following Saturday will be left open, but on
Thanksgiving day the Generals will meet the University
of Maryland at Baltimore in the first of a series of Tur-
key Day battles. Plans are to make this an annual affair,
giving both Washington and Lee and the University of
Maryland a “traditional’’ Thanksgiving day classic.

That’s the story of football for 1935, and some hint
of what to expect in the way of games next year.

 

About the Cover

THE PICTURE spread across the cover of this issue
of The Alumni Magazine may seem paradoxically famil-
iar and unfamiliar, because it’s the new skyline of “the
most beautiful campus in America.” Shown to the right,
on the site of old Tucker Hall, is the new law school,
fast nearing completion. It will be ready for occupancy
the first of February—a complete story on the structure
will appear in the next issue of The Alumni Magazine.

 

A bouquet from William J. Cox of the Yale School
of Engineering :

“T want to commend the magazine on its excellence
this year. I have been very much pleased to learn of the
plans for fireproofing the main building. I think nothing
could happen to Washington and Lee as serious as the
destruction of that building by fire—which very nearly
happened once when I was a student.”

 

THE DECEMBER alumni association meeting schedule
called for addresses by Dr. Gaines to groups at Bir-
mingham, New Orleans, Chattanooga, and Bristol, Va.
The next issue of The Alumni Magazine will carry de-
tailed accounts of these meetings.

In Memoriam

WALTER STEVES, 44, who attended Washington and
Lee from 1910 to 1913, died November 13 at San An-
tonio, Texas. He was well known in Texas business and
social circles, and was a member of a family long identi-
fied with the University. His father, Albert Steves, Sr.,
class of 1878, survives, in addition to his brother, Albert
Steves, Jr., class of 1906. Albert Steves, III, son of Al-
bert Steves, Jr., received his A. B. from Washington and
Lee in 1930, and is living in San Antonio.

Funeral services were conducted at 3 o’clock Wednes-
day afternoon from his residence on King William street.
Rey. Arthur McKinstry, rector of St. Mark’s Episcopal
Church, of which Steves was a member, conducted the
services. Burial was in the Mission Burial Park.

Steves was born in San Antonio December 22, 1890,
and would have been 45 years old in little more than a
month. He attended school in San Antonio, finishing St.
Mary’s College before being graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee University.

He was a veteran of the World War and served as
a first lieutenant in the Three-Hundred-Forty-Third Ar-
tillery. He was a member of the Army of Occupation
for six months after the close of hostilities.

Steves began his business career in 1913 after finish-
ing his schooling. He was one of the organizers of the
Steves Sash & Door Co. In 1924 he became president
of the Ed N. Steves & Son Lumber Co., a position he
held at the time of his death.

 

Jupce Witiiam FE. Atxrnson of Conway, Arkan-
sas, chancellor of the ninth district of Arkansas and one
of the state’s leading citizens, died on November 10. He
was 83 years old, and was graduated in law from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1872, before he was 20 years old.
He was one of the founders of the Ouachita Baptist
College at Arkadelphia, Arkansas, and for many years
was chairman of its board of trustees. He served two
terms as attorney general of Arkansas, and when 78
years old was named chancellor of the ninth district.

 

ARCHIE PHELPS of Sumpter, S. C., died in October
of 1935. He received his B. A. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1923.

 

Two brothers, alumni who were in school during the
1800’s, died in Missouri in October of this year. They
were Thomas K. Kirkpatrick, who attended Washington
College, 1865-1868; and Robert Bruce Kirkpatrick, who
attended Washington and Lee, 1883-1887, and took his
LL. B .degree in 1889. They were well known residents
of Richmond, Mo.

[ 16 ]

The Alumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Local Alumni Association Notes

Washington

ALUMNI OF THE nation’s capital, meeting at the Rac-
quet club on the eve of the Generals’ game with Mary-
land, heard of progress in modernization plans at the
University, were told of the progress in sports, elected
officers, and generally enjoyed one of the most success-
ful gatherings ever staged by the association.

Ed Campbell, class of 1918, was elected president
of the capital association to succeed Woodson P. Hough-
ton, class of 1916, who offered his resignation. Cliff
Woodrum, Jr., 1932, was named secretary to take the
place of Campbell.

A resume of University activities was given by
Charlie McDowell of the law faculty, who told the alum-
ni particularly about the new law building and plans for
fireproofing and modernizing the interior of Washing-
ton college.

Forrest Fletcher, head of the physical education de-
partment at Washington and Lee and president of the
Southern conference, described the success of Washing-
ton and Lee teams in the past few years and traced the
development of football that led to both state and con-
ference championships last season.

The managing editor of your magazine (see the
masthead for his name) spoke briefly about the publica-
tion and asked for contributions to it from all alumni.

More than fifty alumni attended the meeting, a smok-
er that was preceded by a swimming party at the Rac-
quet club pool. The next meeting, a monthly luncheon,
is scheduled at the University club on December 13. A
formal dinner is being arranged for Founders’ Day.

Those at the Racquet club affair included :

Alexander, Daniel W.; Alexander, William H.; Ash-
worth, George F.; Barclay, D. M.; Bledsoe, EK. P.;
Browne, Anderson; Burtner, W. O.

Campbell, Edmund D.; Carter, Richard P.: Coe,
Madison P.; Cox, Melville B.; Cross, Everett N.; Dav-
idson, Charles H.; Deland, Allan $.; DeVane, Dozier ;
Dorsey, G. I.; Durrance, F. M.; Ecker, Jack.

Ferguson, Edward E.; Fletcher, Forest; Guthrie,
F. P.; Hale, E. William, Jr.; Hanley, John A.; Harper,
Hilliard; Houghton, Woodson P.; Hunter, EK. P.; Ken-
nedy, B. R.; Kenney, Raymond; Krewson, Eugene C. ;
Lamar, Arthur; Melton, J. C.; Mills, H. R.

Pendleton, I). S.; Price, D. George; Printz, Massey
[..; Rice, Joe, Jr.; Richmond, Earl L.; Saunders, H. V.;
Shade, C. S.; Sheffey, II, Ed; Spencer, K. E.; Thom-

son, Augustus P.; Tiffany, Wallace N.; Trimble, K. W.;
Trundle, A. D.; Vaught, Marshall; Wertz, W. H.; Wil-
liams, Robert K.; Wolford, Torrence; Wood, Arthur J.;
Woodrum, C. A.; Young, J. H.

Baltimore

ALUMNI of Baltimore met the evening before the
Generals’ game with Maryland at College Park, holding
one of the “most inspiring gatherings” in the history of
the association, to use the words of Jim Milbourne.

The meeting was addressed by Cy Young, alumni
secretary, who described athletic endeavors at the Uni-
versity and told of improvements being made and others
planned on the campus.

Eddie Parks Davis, former member of the Wash-
ington and Lee coaching staff, known to almost every
alumnus of recent years at Washington and Lee, also
attended the meeting. Eddie, who has been spending
some of the fall months back on the campus in Lexing-
ton, accompanied Cy Young to the meeting, attending
the game at College Park the next day.

The gathering was staged as a dinner-meeting at the
Southern hotel. Those who attended included:

Matthew Page Andrews, Frederick Minto Barron,
A. H. Chandler, Clyde A. Compton, J. Carl Fisher, Rob-
ert P. Ingram, John A. Johnston, Emory Landon, W.
Carroll Mead, Spencer Merrick, Jr., Lewis W. (Jim)
Milbourne, F. Stanley Porter, W. F. Railing, William
F. Sutton, Jr., Marion D. Williamson, and Francis Stone.

New York

THE ELEVENTH annual dinner of the Washington
and Lee New York alumni association was held at the
Ambassador Hotel, Friday evening, November 15, with
approximately 60 in attendance.

The guests of honor were to include Dr. William El-
liott Dold, of the class of 1876, a loyal and beloved
alumnus, but because of ill health he was unable to at-
tend. John Mark Glenn, of the class of 1879, was pres-
ent, however.

The dinner was presided over by Hugh R. Hawthorn,
of the class of 1910, president of the New York alumni
association.

Because of the absence of Dr. Dold, a telegram of
regret of his inability to attend was sent him.

The guest of honor, Mr. Glenn, thanked the asso-

[ 17 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

ciation for the honored position which he held on the
occasion, and reminisced of the days when he was a
student at Washington and Lee, and the contrast in the
conditions which exist today on the campus, and those
which existed while he was in attendance during the
reconstruction period following the War Between the
States.

Joseph T. Lykes gave a report upon the Washington
and Lee-Virginia game which he, together with many
other of the New York alumni, attended.

Nelson Burris, chairman of the employment com-
mittee, gave a most satisfactory report on the work which
is being carried on by that committee. Edward W. Lee,
secretary and treasurer of the New York alumni, and
one of the University’s most ardent supporters, reported
upon the financial condition of the association, showing
that the association is still solvent.

John W. Davis, one of the University’s best-known
and most distinguished alumni, gave a brief and inspir-
ing talk. Those present included :

George T. Holbrook, James A. Lee, Emmett W.
Poindexter, Francis T. Cole, John Hoffman, Marshall
A. Mott,, Harold D. St. John, Frank Urmey, William
FE. Johnston, John M. Glenn, Wentworth F. Myers, H.
C. Robert, Haven Walton, B. Lee Winters, Jr., Philip
J. Seraphine, Jr., Richard O. Parmelee, M. Wilson Mc-
Farlin, G. Carlton Walters, Martin W. Spector, Allan
McDowell, Randolph E. Tyrrel, Leonard T. Brown,
Raymond Smith, H. S. Spotts, Jackson R. Collins, Hugh
R. Hawthorne, Frederick N. Mercer, John W. Davis,
W. R. Perkins, Rayford W. Alley, Joseph ‘T. Lykes,
Oscar C. Huffman, Randolph Shields, J. L. Powell, Ir-
ving Bricken, Stewart A. Wurzburger, James R. Cast-
ner, Nelson Burris, W. M. Farrar, Dan Blain, William
A. Hyman, Charles McNitt, Edwin C. Caffrey, Frank
J. Young, Roy J. Grimley, Alfred W. Robinson, Rich-
ard Foster, Edward W. Lee, George Allison, John Drye,
H. W. Ordeman, Clarence L. Sager, John P. East, J.
Donald Coleman.

Louisville

A MEETING replete with a floor show, an orchestra,
a first-class magician, and speech-making, was staged
by Louisville alumni on the eve of the Generals’ 14-7
victory over Centre College at Louisville.

The association gathered at the Brown hotel in Louis-
ville Friday evening, October 18. Those who attended
described it as among the best gatherings of the kind
in the history of the Washington and Lee alumni asso-
ciation.

Charlie Blake, an alumnus, was the headline attrac-
tion of the floor show. Blake, amateur magician, put on

a show that apparently made him eligible for a ranking
higher than that of “amateur.”

Members of the Washington and Lee football team
were introduced to the alumni at the meeting.

Cy Young and Dick Smith addressed the meeting,
talking of athletics and giving the group a general pic-
ture of what is going on around the campus.

Ed Reitze, class of 1925, president of the Louisville
alumni, presided. Those at the meeting included:

EK. G. Barker, 1925; R. A. Bate, Jr., 1918; George
EK. Burks, 1927; William F. Chandler, 1929; Oldham
Clarke, 1928; Ed Dodd, 1926; J. D. Faison, 1917; Bill
Farmer, 1933; Bob Foree, Jr., 1927; W. F. Glenn,
1926; Alex Gray, 1919; W. P. Groseclose, 1915; Ken-
nedy Helm, 1895; Henry K. Hill, 1925; Bob Hobson,
1914; William L. Hoge, 1906; Edward G. Isaacs, 1927 ;
Joseph J. Kaplan, 1928; Marty Kaplan, 1936; Murrel
D. Klein, 1925; W. R. Knebelcamp, 1935; Robert J.
McBryde, 1895; David McCandless, Jr., 1927; J. W.
May, Jr., 1916; Charles D. Mercke, 1929; George Merke,
Jr., 1924; J. R. Moore, 1933; T. J. Morrison, 1929; M.
B. O'Sullivan, 1908; Alvin B. Ortner, 1933; Bill Price,
1929; Ed Rietze, 1925; Peel Rivers, 1933; F. A. Samp-
son, 1903; Greenberry Simmons, 1927; Arthur Tabb,
1904; James N. Veech, 1894.

Out-of-town guests:

Cy Young and R. A. Smith, Lexington, Va.; H. St.
G. T. Carmichael, Kyrock, Ky.; J. Shirley Riley, Roa-
noke, Va.; L. H. Logan, Bowling Green, Ky.; Bob May,
Prestonsburg, Ky.; Sidney W. Clay, Frankfort, Ky.;
Harvard Smith, Murfreesboro, Tenn.; O. W. Hisle,
Richmond, Ky.

 

 

MEMORIAL GATEWAY

[ 18 ]

 

 

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

Class Notes

1869

Epwarp W. WILLIAMS, who was born in 1850, is
living at 1319 West 6th St., Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He
was a cotton planter before his retirement some years ago.

1876

Dr. WiLtIAM Exviorr Dotp studied medicine at the
University of Virginia and at the University of New
York, later continuing his studies in Heidelberg. He was
on the staff of several New York hospitals and spent
fifteen years at the Bloomingdale Psychopathic hospital.
He is now medical superintendent of River Crest San-
itarium, at Astoria, L. I. Dr. Dold is a member of num-
erous medical and honorary societies and was at one
time president of the Washington and Lee alumni asso-
ciation of New York.

1885

Dr. JoHN VALLANDINGHAM MCCALL is a Presby-
terian minister, and has lived in Sanderson, Texas, since
1931. His first few years out of Washington and Lee
he taught Greek and Mathematics at various institutions
of higher learning, but in 1890 entered the Union Sem-
inary in Virginia. Later he was a graduate student at
the Princeton Seminary, and since that time has been
actively engaged in religious work in Texas.

1887

SANDY PENDLETON FiccaT retired in 1933 and lives
at 1250 Clarke Ave., Roanoke, Va. He recalls that he
was a shortstop on the baseball teany and was a member
of the first Rugby football eleven during his years at
Washington and Lee.

1890

DoucLas SMITH ANDERSON is dean of the College
of Engineering of Tulane University, New Orleans,
Louisiana. He has been a member of the faculty of Tu-
lane since October, 1892, with the exception of one year
at the University of Mississippi.

1891

FREDERIC ALEXANDER ForsyTHE lives in Lexington,
Kentucky, and is superintendent of the Old Lewis Hunt-
er Distillery Company. He practiced law only a few
months after leaving Washington and Lee, then became

engrossed in farming and stock breeding, at one time
owning a very fine stable of race horses.

1892

WiLL1AM ANpDREW COLLINS writes of his years at
Washington and Lee, that he was busy doing four years
work in three. However, he says he always attended the
Graham-Lee Literary society on Saturday nights and
climbed House Mountain on Sundays. Since leaving
school, he says he has taught school, practiced law, trav-
eled a good deal, and retired about twelve years ago,
now living at 1842 North Cherokee Ave., Los Angeles,
California.

Epwin LuTHER GREEN is professor of ancient lan-
guages at the University of South Carolina. He took a
Ph. D. degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1897,
and is the author of a history of the University of South
Carolina and a history of Richland county, S. C.

1893

Harry ALBERT ALBRIGHT, right tackle on the var-
sitv football team in 1891 and stroke on the Harry Lee
boat crew in 1892, was a private in the Spanish Amer-
ican War. He is unmarried and has lived in Columbus,
Mississippi, since 1898.

Rosert W. JopLinc, a member of the Harry Lee
boat crew in 1893, graduated from the Union Theolog-
ical Seminary in 1898 and received the M.A. and B. D.
degrees from Princeton in 1899. He has been pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Lancaster, South Car-
olina, since 1920.

BENJAMIN A. Jupp has been engaged in the general
practice of law since leaving Washington and Lee. His
offices are at 25 Broad Street, New York. His practice
has included a great many matters involving interna-
tional law, and he has crossed the Atlantic 22 times.

GEORGE BoLiinc LEE, president of Finals in 1893
and a member of the varsity football team for three
years, received his M.D. from Columbia University in
1896. He has become most distinguished in the field of
gynecology, and his offices are at the Hotel Plaza in
New York.

[ 19 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

1894

WiLitiAmM HAmpvron KEIstER went to Harrisonburg,
Virginia, in 1894, as principal of the school there. In
1916 he was elected superintendent of city schools, and
still holds this position. Mr. Keister attended the Home-
coming game November 9.

JAMES Henry BickerstAFF has practiced medicine
since 1897, the last thirty-one years in Pensacola, Florida.

C. T. CorHaAM was admitted to the Bar of Arkansas
in 1901, and for the past thirty years has practiced law
in Hot Springs. He has been a member of the Arkansas
State Senate and circuit judge of his district.

1895

WittiAM McCHeEsNEY MartTIN is governor of the
Federal Reserve Board for the St. Louis district. He
has two sons, William McChesney, Jr., and Malcolm

Woods.

ALBERT SIDNEY HIGGINBOTHAM is engaged in the
general practice of law in Tazewell, Virginia. He has
two daughters and two sons.

1896

Pau M. PEnick has been treasurer of Washington
and Lee University for twenty-two years. He is also
president of the Rockbridge National Bank, of Lexing-
ton, Virginia. He has three daughters, Emily, Mary
Monroe, and Marshall, and one son, D. Allen Penick,
a graduate of the Washington and Lee law school, prac-
ticing in Lexington.

Howarp VERNON CANTER received the Ph. D. de-
gree from Johns Hopkins University, and since 1909 has
taught at the University of Illinois. He has two daugh-
ters and one son. |

WititiaAm M. BALtou has been practicing law in
Baltimore since 1898. His offices are at 2 E. Lexing-
ton street.

GLENN Mapison Brown lives at 2020 I Street, N.
W., Washington, D. C. After leaving Washington and
Lee, he studied art in New York and Paris, and has at-
tained great distinction as an etcher. At present, Mr.
Brown is engaged in translating the poems of Francois
Villon.

1897

GEORGE CAMPBELL PEERY is governor of Virginia.
He was a member of Congress from 1923 to 1929, and
from 1929 to 1933 was a member of the Virginia State
Corporation Commission. He has two sons and one
daughter.

F. Perrré HAMILTon lives at 408 Walnut Street,
New Orleans, La. For several years after leaving school,
he practiced engineering in various parts of the United
States, and then went into business. He has one son,
Stanley B. Hamilton.

HENRY WINBOURNE MAGRUDER DRAKE lives in Port
Gibson, Mississippi. He has one daughter and four sons,
two of whom he sent to Washington and Lee.

1898

NorMAN §S. FitzHuGu has been a practicing certi-
fied public accountant in Charleston, West Virginia,
since 1917. After leaving college, he attended the East-
man Business College in Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and fol-
lowed this with two years in California and Alaska. Un-
til 1917 he was in business. His only child, Norman
S. Fitzhugh, Jr., attended Washington and Lee.

Epwarp Asspury O’NEAL, president of Finals in
1898, is president of the American Farm Bureau Fed-
eration, with offices at 58 E. Washington St., Chicago,
Illinois.

Rorert W. Mayo practices law in Dallas, Texas.
He received his law training at the University of Texas.
He writes that although it has been nearly forty years
since he left Washington and Lee, he still remembers
doing some studying here and a “lot of cavorting around
the baseball diamond and singing in the Glee club.”

1899

Joun Wawnroy Garrow, president of Final Ball in
1899, is now president of the Houston Cotton Exchange
and Board of Trade, president of the Texas Cotton As-
sociation, and president of the American Cotton Ship-
pers’ Association. He lives at 19 Courtlandt Place, Hous-
ton, Texas.

SAMUEL CoLvILLE LIND continued his studies in
chemistry after leaving Washington and Lee at M. I. T.,
and at the University of Leipzig, where he received the
Ph. D. degree. Since 1926 he has been director of the
School of Chemistry at the University of Minnesota
in Minneapolis.

JAMES ALEXANDER McC Lurk, vice-president of the
Y. M. C. A., and valedictorian of the class of 1899, has
been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in St.
Petersburg, Florida, since 1924. He has nine children—
five girls and four boys.

JAmMEs LutHER Morrison is engaged in the whole-
sale and retail hardware business in Hazard, Kentucky.
His two sons, William Paul and Robert Breckenridge,
are students at Washington and Lee.

[ 20 |

 

|
7
|
.
|
’
’
|
|

ie enlace

ai

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1900

Lynwoop Rurr HoitMEs is manager of Furness,
Withy & Co., Ltd., Philadelphia, Pa. He has been with
this organization since 1917.

1901

CLARENCE C. BuRNs is a member of the law firm of
Wilson, Burns and Wilson, Lebanon, Virginia. He has
four sons and two daughters.

RicHarp C, Lorp, class agent for 1901, has been a
professor at Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, since 1922.
He has two sons, Richard C., Jr., and Charles Lewis.

1902

AMMEN LEwWIs BuRGER is supervisor of schools and
clerk of the school board of Lynchburg, Virginia. He
has been in school work since leaving Washington and
Lee. His only son, Ammen Lewis, Jr., entered Virginia
Military Institute in 1934.

Witu1AM THomas ELtis received his M.D. from
the University of Pennsylvania in 1906, and is now a
physician and surgeon in Philadelphia, with offices in
the Hardt building.

Henry BLAIR GRAYBILL taught at Canton Christian
College, now Lingnan University, from 1903 until 1926,
and is the author of a dozen texts for Chinese pupils.
Since 1926, he has been professor of education at Green-
brier College, Lewisburg, Virginia.

1903

JoHN Monro BANISTER GILL, class agent for 1903,
has been rector of St. Paul’s Church, Petersburg, Vir-
ginia, since 1924. He graduated from the Virginia Theo-
logical Seminary and was a missionary in China from

1909 until 1924.

SAMUEL McPHEETERS GLAsSGow, president of the
class of 1903, is pastor of the Independent Presbyterian
Church, Savannah, Georgia. He is the author of sev-
eral religious books.

1904

JouHNn McC cure is professor of chemistry at New
Mexico Military Institute, in Roswell, New Mexico. He
is a major in the Chemical Warfare Reserve, U. S. A.

KENNETH Ivor McKay is a lawyer, with offices in
the Citrus Exchange building, Tampa, Florida. He has
three sons and a daughter.

GEORGE CARRINGTON MOSELEy is an instructor in
social science in the Boys’ High school, Atlanta, Georgia.

1906

Epwarp L&£A Davis has been in the real estate bus-
iness in Chattanooga, Tennessee, for the past ten years.
Before that time he was in the banking business and
manager of a coal mining company. He is unmarried.

WALTER HANNA DUNLAP is engaged in statistical
work with the electric rate survey of the Federal Power
Commission, in Washington, D. C. He was engaged in
the engineering field until 1925. He, also, remains un-
married.

Joun Wi tiiAmM EGGLEston has practiced law in
Norfolk, Virginia, since 1910, and was appointed jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia on
February 20, 1935. While Washington and Lee is very
proud of this achievement, the university is also proud
to recall that in 1923 he won the Virginia state tennis
championship, both in singles and doubles.

1907

PowELL GLAss, editor of The Ring-tum Phi when
he attended Washington and Lee, has remained in news-
paper work ever since, with the Lynchburg News. His
son, Powell, Jr., is a sophomore at Washington and Lee.

V. Gi_moreE IDEN is secretary of the American In-
stitute of Steel Construction, Inc., with offices at 200
Madison Avenue, New York. Until 1928 he pursued a
journalistic career, being connected with several papers
and trade journals, when he became associated with the
American Institute of Steel Construction as Director
of Public Relations.

FRANCIS GILCHRIST JONES, president of the senior
class of 1907, received the M.D. degree from Emory
university in 1910, and practiced general medicine until
1926. Since then he has specialized in dermatology. He
married Miss Lucia Brock Jeter, and they have a son
and a daughter.

1908

Horace W. (RaGs) PHILLIPS is engaged in the
lumber business in Hardeeville, South Carolina. He
wrote regarding the picture of the sons of alumni ap-
pearing in the October issue of this magazine. He was
particularly anxious to identify the sons of Peck ‘Alex-
ander, Powell Glass, J. C. Carpenter, Howard Clenden-
ing, and Russell Cover. His own son, Horace B. Phil-
lips, II, is fourteen years old.

THOMAS NEWELL HAvVLIN is now chief chemist and
metallurgist, department of water and power, Los An-
geles, California.

[ 21 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Rosert SAMUEL KEEBLER received the M.A. and
LL. B. degrees from Harvard University in 1914. Un-
til 1934 he practiced law in Memphis, Tennessee, and
at present is connected with the legal division of the
National Recovery Administration in Washington.

H. R. MAuHLER is principal of the Thomasville High
school, Thomasville, Georgia. He married Miss Nora
Wilkinson, and they have four sons.

1909

L. J. BoxLty is engaged in the construction busi-
ness in Roanoke, Virginia, and is also president of two
large stone companies. For the past two years a great
deal of his time has been taken up with code work, as
he represented the district composed of Virginia, West
Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia as a
member of the code authority for the crushed stone,
sand, gravel, etc., industries.

BERNIE BorcHArptT practices law in Tampa, Florida,
with offices at 410% Franklin St.

1910

CHARLES Ivig Dwiccins says he is dividing his time
between acting as receiver of several closed banks in his
section and caring for his orange and grapefruit groves.
He lives in Lakeland, Florida, and has two sons, one of
whom is a junior at Washington and Lee.

Gorpon R. Fortson has carried on a general med-
ical practice in Susanville, California since 1924. Soon
after leaving Washington and Lee he spent several years
in Guatemala, managing a banana plantation for the
United Fruit company. After this he attended the Stan-
ford Medical School. He writes that he has not seen
a Washington and Lee alumnus for nineteen years.

Irwin Patron GRAHAM is assistant manager of the
Erwin Cotton Mills Co., Plant number 3, at Cooleemee,
North Carolina. He has been with this company since
1916, with the exception of two years spent in France
and Germany during and after the War, as a captain
in the 16th F. A., Fourth Division. Mr. Graham is a
member of the executive committee of the board of
trustees of Davidson College.

1912

CLEMENTS McCMULLEN is a major in the United
States Army Air Corps. He is stationed now at Lang-
ley Field, Virginia. After leaving school, Major Mc-
Mullen was engaged in civil engineering activities in
Florida for some years, and has been in the air corps

since 1917. He is the co-holder, with W. W. White,

of the speed record from New York to Buenos Aires,
made in 1930.

JosEpH Minor Hotioway practices medicine in
Fredericksburg, Virginia, and is vice-president of the
Rotary Club there. He received his M. D. degree from
the Medical College of Virginia, took post-graduate
work at the University of Pennsylvania, and was with
the A. E. F. in France. He married Miss Fanny Gordon,
and they have two sons.

ABRAM Hancock HopkINs was elected judge of the
30th Judicial Circuit of Virginia in 1932 for the term
ending in 1940. He lives in Rocky Mount, Virginia.

Water L&E Hopkins has been a member of the
law firm of Hopkins and Hopkins, Richmond, Virginia,
since 1920. He has served on a great many important
committees in the state, and is the author of several
books and papers of an historical nature.

1913

Joun ALEXANDER BowMAN graduated from the
Union Theological Seminary in 1916, and is now pastor
of the Catoctin Church, Waterford, Virginia. He mar-
ried Miss Fern Prince, and they have a son and a
daughter.

SoLon CLIFTON Ross lives in West Point, Mississ-
ippi, and manages his plantation, which is near there.

Pau D. Converse is professor of business organ-
ization and operation at the University of Illinois, Ur-
banna, Ill. He is the author of several text books in his
field and has written a great many articles for economic,
marketing, and business periodicals. He married Miss
Gertrude Graver, and they have a son, 15, and a daugh-
ter, &.

JAMES ERNEstT YONGE practices law in Miami, Flor-
ida, with offices in the First Trust Bldg. He received
his LL. B. degree from the University of Florida, and
during the war was a second lieutenant in the air service.

1914

Lewis BERKELEY Cox writes that we were mistaken
in crediting him with an article on automobile accidents
in Harper’s magazine last summer. As a matter of fact,
the article was written by his brother, William J. Cox,
of the class of 1917, who teaches in the department of
engineering mechanics at Yale University, is traffic en-
gineer for the National Bureau of Casualty and Surety
Underwriters, and a director of the Eno Foundation for
Highway Traffic Regulation. He is the author of sev-
eral books and various magazine articles.

[ 22 |

 

 

he Ol i li dei tr i ak Nt

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

RAYMOND LEE BEUHRING practices law in Hunt-
ington, W. Va., with offices in the First Huntington
National Bank building. As a lieutenant in the First Di-
vision, 16th Infantry, he saw active service in the World
War, was wounded twice, and was awarded the Purple
Heart with Oak Leaf and the Silver Star medal. He
was a member of the West Virginia state legislature in

1929.

DANIEL CruMp BUCHANAN received the degree of
B.D. from the Presbyterian Theological Seminary of
Chicago in 1921. That year he sailed for Japan as a
missionary of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S. A.,
and his address is: Japan Mission of the Presbyterian
Church in the U. S. A., Ichijodori, Muromachi Nishi,
Kyoto City, Japan. Dr. Buchanan married Miss Kath-
arine Baetjer, of Winchester, Virginia, in 1921. They
have two sons and two daughters.

1915

CHARLES RALPH BEALL practices law in Martins-
burg, West Virginia. He married Miss Virginia Em-
mert, and they have a son, Charles Ralph, Jr., aged two.

Jerry A. BurKE is superintendent of schools in Ap-
pomattox, Virginia. His son, Jerry, Jr., is a sophomore
at Washington and Lee.

Henry WASHINGTON CAMPBELL is a farmer and
orchardist in Springfield, W. Va: He was a member of
the West Virginia legislature in 1925.

RicHARD WILLIAMSON FOWLKEs, president of the
class of 1915, graduated from the University of Vir-
ginia in medicine in 1920. He took further work in der-
matology at Columbia University from 1922 to 1924,
and now specializes in dermatology in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, with offices in the Professional building.

CLAIBORNE Warts Goocu, Jr., manufactures to-
bacco machinery in Lynchburg, Virginia. He married
Miss Cornelia D. Christian, and they have a son, Clai-
borne W., III.

1916

Rosert PRESTON HAWKINS, JR., is a surgeon at the
Chesapeake & Ohio hospital, Clifton Forge, Virginia.
He married Miss Grace Vernon Reynolds, and_ they
have a son, Robert Preston, III, born on April 1, 1935.

Davin Taytor Hyarr received his M.D. from the
Johns Hopkins Medical School in 1921, and since that
time has practiced medicine in Little Rock, Arkansas.
He married Miss Mary Margaret Hunter, and they have
a daughter and a son.

EpmMuUND Macers is in the state auditor’s office, At-
lanta, Georgia. He is a member of the bar of Georgia,
and is a certified public accountant.

SELDEN SpEssARD MCNEERr practices law in Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, with offices in the First Hunt-
ington National Bank building. He married Miss Jean
Alexander Gregory, and they have two daughters and
two sons.

1917

INMAN PAYNE CRUTCHFIELD is state counsel for
Home Owners’ Loan Corporation, 621 Graham Bldg.,
Jacksonville, Florida. He married Christine Dearing and
they have two children, Inman Payne, Jr., and Chris-
tine Dearing.

GrEorGE N. DANIELSON is chief naturalization exam-
iner, 1021 New Postoffice building, St. Paul, Minnesota.

LANDON CABELL FLouRNoyY, JR., is engaged in the
private practice of law in Morganfield, Kentucky. He
married Mariana Dyer and they have a daughter, Ann
Cabell, age four.

JAmeEs H. Forses is with the James H. Forbes Tea
and Coffee Co., 922 Clark St., St. Louis, Mo.

Ropert H. GARDNER is division manager of A. M.
Byers Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., with headquarters
in Washington, D. C. His offices are in the Munsey
building.

FRANK J. GILLIAM is dean of students at Washington
and Lee University. He married Louise Fontaine John-
son and they have two children, Fontaine and Louise.

JouHN StyBeErtT HANSEL is mayor of the town of
Monterey, Virginia, one of the most picturesque spots
in the state. He is married and has three children, John,
Virginia, and Benjamin.

Jupce MiILLArp FILLMorE Hays is superintendent
of schools, Glendale, Ky.

1918

Homer ApAms (Rocky) Hott has been attorney-
general of West Virginia since March, 1933. His ad-
dress is 1530 Quarrier St., Charleston. Rocky and his
wife, who was Miss Isabel Hedges Wood, frequently
visit Lexington, particularly during football season. They
have daughters, six and nine years old.

JAMEs J. IzArp is in the insurance business in Roa-
noke, Virginia, and has been there since 1916 except for
“two years with Uncle Sam seeing Europe through a
box-car and walking.” He has two sons, James J. Jr.,
and W. Bolling, fourteen and nine years old, respec-
tively, and his address is Colonial American National
Bank building, Roanoke.

[ 23 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

GrorGE GoopwyYN JoYNEs, JR., is cashier of the First
National Bank in Onancock, Virginia. He married Miss
Elizabeth Powell.

Ecuot SpErNA MARSHALL is with the Continental
Can Co., Inc., 100 East 42nd St., New York. He has a
daughter who has just finished her first year at Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, and a
son, Echol S., Jr., six years old. Eck’s record since leav-
ing Washington and Lee would make excellent copy for
a “Home Town Boy Makes Good” story. He says he
started his career as a common laborer for the Dupont
Co., in Hopewell, Va., advancing to the position of as-
sistant purchasing agent with that company. In 1919, he
started as a student salesman with the Virginia Can
Company, and was vice-president and general manager
when that company merged with Continental Can in
1928. At present he is head of the adjustment depart-
ment of Continental Can.

1919

DoucLas Epwarp Lecki£, 606 Hartman Building,
Columbus, Ohio, director of Leckie Coal Company ;
married Russelle Charlton and has a son, Douglas Ed-
ward, Jr.

Joe BUNGER LIVESAy is a missionary under the
Northern Presbyterian Church to Korea, living at Chair-
yung, Chosen, Japan. He married a Canadian, Miss
Muriel Jeannette Smith. They recently lost their only
child, a daughter.

GEorGE EpcAr McCvure has held positions as high
school principal in Albemarle, Fairfax, and Green coun-
ties. At present located at Standardsville, Va. His per-
manent address is Fairfield, Va.

Louis A. McMurray is a missionary of the Pres-
byterian church, at Luebo, Congo Belge. He is mar-
ried and has one son.

GeorcE A. Mgars, A. B., Wake Forest, 1922; M. D.,
Syracuse University, 1924; member, staff of Mission
hospital, Asheville, N. C., 216 Haywood building. He is
married and has a daughter seven years old and a boy
seventeen months.

RALPH ERSKINE Moore is teaching agriculture in
the high school at Carson, Va. He has three children
Mary Alice, Jane Carson, and Ralph Erskine, Jr.

 

JAMES HENRY PENICK is vice-president and cashier
of the W. B. Worthen Co., bankers, 401 Main St., Little
Rock, Ark. He married Mary Worthen and has three
children—Mary Worthen, Edwin Moore, and James
| i Fs

1920

GREEN B. FENLEy is engaged in cattle ranching and
law practice in Uvalde, Texas. He served eight years
as county judge of Uvalde county, having taken his law
degree at the University of Texas in 1924. He is still
a bachelor.

Cart K. Gitcurist is located in the Kanawha Val-
ley building in Charleston, W. Va., as treasurer of the
Viking Gasoline Corporation.

PINKNEY Grissom is located in the Republic Bank
building in Dallas, Texas. He is engaged in the general
practice of civil law as a member of the firm of Thomp-
son, Knight, Baker and Harris. He married Miss Karl

Simmons and they have two children, John, 12, and
Pinkney, Jr., 13.

Rosert BuRNS GRUBB is in the automobile business
in Lewiston, Pa., where he has had the Hudson-Essex
agency for the past seven years. He is unmarried.

Jor Hopson is practicing law in Prestonsburg, Ky.,
having taken his law degree at the University of Ken-
tucky in 1925. He married Miss Inez Cottrell.

JAmEs P. (Jimmy) HI t is a lawyer, located in the
Atlantic National Bank building, Jacksonville, Florida.
Jimmy is married and has a small daughter. His class-
mates will remember that he came from Eufaula, Ala-
bama, and was a real artist on the trombone.

Leicgu B. HANEs is practicing law in Roanoke, Va.

Jacop Homer Hatran lives at 308 Kline Street,
Covington, Va. During the war he served in Battery “F”
111 F. A., better known as the Rockbridge Artillery. He
married Miss Ruth Wiant of Charlottesville, and they

have four children.

1921

CHARLES G. Gorpon Moss is teaching in the State
Teachers College, Fredericksburg, Va. He married Laura
M. Anderson.

Roy J. GRIMLEY was admitted to the New Jersey
Bar in June, 1922, and has practiced law in Ridgewood
since that time. He married Marion Elizabeth Franks.
They have two children, Roy. J., Jr., and Gloria Scott.
Roy attended Homecoming on November 9.

SoLty ALBERT Hartzo has been teaching for the
past five years at the Lake Forest College, Lake Forest,
Illinois. He married Margaret Lindsay Fry. They have
two children, Clara Ann and Margaret Douglas, eight
and ten.

STANTON B. HuME is assistant district engineer,
state highway department, Danville, Kentucky.

[ 24 |

—

Rosert GorrELL KELty is a member of the law firm
of Brown, Jackson, and Knight, Kanawha Valley Build-
ing, Charleston, W. Va. He married Irma King and
they have three children, Robert, Alice Carol and Sally
Ann.

1922

ArTHUR O. DUNN is a member of a firm of archi-
tects and landscape architects at Youngstown, Ohio. He
studied architecture at Western Reserve.

Howarp M. ELpEr is head of the Latin department,
Junior Jordan High school, Pine Bluff, Ark.

Dr. H. T. Gararp is a specialist, eye, ear, nose, and
throat, practicing in Lewisburg, W. Va. He is married
and has three daughters.

LAWRENCE (LARRY) Haynes is head of the math-
ematics department of Chestnut Hall Academy, Chestnut
Hill, Philadelphia. He married Marian Martin, and they
have a daughter, Margaret Ann.

Matruew G. HENDERSON is living in Norfolk. His
address is 430 Redgate Ave.

Bos HoweErvron is with Smith, Drum & Co., Build-
ers, Commercial National Bank Bldg., Charlotte, N. C.

1923

THOMAS JEAN ELL Is received his LL. B. degree from
Washington University, St. Louis, in 1925, and has
practiced his profession in Florida since that time. He
is a member of the firm of Clark and Ellis with offices
in Ingraham Building.

Ropert Maurice (STUDENT) FREw is in public
school work in Rutherford, N. C. He married Rose
Renfro, and they have two children, Rose and Mary
Louise.

FraANK Leroy GoopMAN is pastor of the Presby-
terian church at Keenansville, D. C.

ALFRED EpcGaAr CrEIGH, JR., graduated from the
University of Colorado law school in 1925 and he has
since practiced law in Sanderson, Texas. He has been
county attorney since 1931. Al married Miss Dorothy
Neibert, and they have a son, Al, III.

1924

THomas Leroy Donovan attended at Colorado
School of Mines and has been doing engineering work
with the West Virginia state road commission, the Penn-
sylvania department of highways, the Sinclair Oil Com-
pany, and is at present with the Gulf Oil Company in
Venezuela, South America. In spite of these varied ac-

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

tivities, he keeps his residence in New Cumberland,
West Virginia.

J. W. Fircuerr is an attorney-at-law in Hunting-
ton, W. Va. He has always been a very active alumnus,
and helped form the alumni association in Charleston.

WALTER FLICK, now Dr. Flick, is associate professor
of education and psychology at Washington and Lee,
head of the department. He has been teaching here every
since he graduated in 1924, except for a year’s leave
when he took his doctor’s degree.

Ep Howarp is another representative of this class
on the campus. He has been at Washington and Lee
since 1927 as assistant professor of accounting.

A. E. JouHNSON is a Presbyterian minister, and lives
in Monterey, Virginia.

Henry W. Jones is with the Bellgrade Lumber
Company in Memphis, Tenn.

1925

LinpsaAy R. Henry lives at 22 Kingsland Place,
Babylon, N. Y. He married Gertrude Blakeman, and
they have two sons, Thomas Edward Henry and Pat-
rick Henry.

Puitip Howervron has recently been made general
agent of the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance com-
pany. His offices are in the First National Bank Build-
ing, Charlotte, N. C.

1926

Urtricn EBERHARDT CRAIG is with Best & Co., at
East Orange, N. J. He married Maud Parsons, and their
home is at 997 Broad Street, Bloomfield, N. J.

Epwarp ALLEN Dopp concluded his course in law
at Jefferson Law School and was admitted to the prac-
tice of law in Kentucky in 1927. He is instructor at
Jefferson Law School and is engaged in the general
practice of law in Louisville, Ky. He married Mary Gib-
son Dodd.

EDWARD FELSENTHAL has been selling life insurance
for Mason Mutual Life Insurance Co., for the past six
years. His address is Farnsworth Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

James C. Fox is secretary and treasurer of the Fox
Brothers Hardware Company, Pine Bluff, Ark. He mar-
ried Frances Coleman.

Joun BENJAMIN FuNK has been a partner and
manager of H. B. Funk & Co., engineering and building
construction, since May, 1929; city engineer of Bruns-
wick, Md.; member of Maryland House of Delegates,

[ 25 |

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

January, 1935, to January, 1939. He married .Doris Le-
nore Dindore, and they have two children, Anne Le-
nore and William Benjamin.

Jay GALBRAITH GOULD, 514 National Building, Pine
Bluff, Ark., is county attorney.

CaRL FREDERICK GYDESON, JR., was at the University
of Texas for four years. Has been in the oil business
since 1928. Now associated with Maritime Oil Com-
pany, Refiners and Marketers of Petroleum Products.

1927

RoBpert WAYNE FALL is manager and owner of the
Advertising Service, an advertising agency, in Roswell,
New Mexico. He married Frances E. Robinson.

Bogs ForeE is manager of wholesale apartment house
division, Thompson-Sterling Co., District’s General
Electric refrigerators, ranges and dishwashers. He mar-
ried Mary Morton Yonts, and they live at 2440 Glen-
mary Ave., Louisville, Ky.

Joun N. GArBeEr, JR., is with the Campbell Shoe
Manufacturing Co., at Littlestown, Pa. He married El-
vira Kirkpatrick, and they have a son, John K.

Epwarp DupLry Fosserr lives at Falmouth, Ken-
tucky. He is married and has three boys, Edward, Jim-
my, and Billy.

James McDitvt Garrett attended the University of
North Carolina and Eastman School of Business. He is
secretary-treasurer of the Hoke Lumber Co., and en-
gaged in farming, at Red Springs, North Carolina.

RupoLpH GLEATON is in the retail dental supply
business in the capacity of outside salesman. His ad-
dress is 62 Arvade Bldg., Columbia, S. C.

L. VAUGHAN Grapy has been manager of the Des
Moines, Iowa, office of the Metropolitan Casualty Co.,
since January, 1935.

Tuomas AucGustus GRAVES is county judge, with
offices at the court house in Cuero, Texas. He married
Anita Thorogood.

HANSEN CARMINE HAarrELt studied and taught at
the University of Chicago where he received the degree
of Ph. D., in August, 1934. He is now a member of the
faculty of the University of Missouri, department of
classical languages and archeology.

ALLEN Harris, Jr., attended the Harvard graduate
school of business administration, receiving the degree
of M.B.A. in 1929. He is secretary of the Harris
Flooring Company, 21-23 Borden Ave., Long Island
Citys Ni IY:

WoopviL_LtE CarTHON HayrueE received his LL. B.
from the University of Alabama and is practicing in
Hinton, W. Va. He was elected to the state legislature
in 1935. He married Elizabeth Rousseau Bright.

KENNETH F. Hitt was instructor in English and
history at Soochow University, Second Middle School,
Shanghai, China, in 1925-27. Is now bandmaster and
assistant registrar, Valley Forge Military Academy,
Wayne, Pa. He married Renee Prawl and has two chil-
dren, John H., and Charlotte Louise.

Louis Hock is running the Hock Shop at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He married Celyn Griggs.

JAmMEs THomas Huston, Jr., is production manager
and plant superintendent, Everybodys Publishing Co.,
Hanover, Pa.

1928

MiLEs Spiro FRIEDMAN is an attorney-at-law, mem-
ber of the firm of Cravens, Cravens & Friedman, Cham-
ber of Commerce Bldg., Fort Smith, Ark.

WititiAMmM F. GoreNFLOo, 8Sr., is cashier of Paine,
Webber & Co., 100 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit, Michigan.
He married Phyllis Deborah Clark, and they have two
children, William F., Jr., and Marjorie Gail.

Umpserto Luicr GUALTIERI is in newspaper work.
His address is 225 Lafayette Street, Suite: 1000, New
York City.

GrorGE Harsh, JR., is junior member of the law firm
of Harsh, Harsh & Harsh, Commercial Title Bldg.,
Memphis, Tenn. He married Rebecca Malone, and they
have a daughter, Nancy Barry Harsh.

GARLAND HINTON HayEs is with the Bankers Trust
Co., 16 Wall St., New York.

GrOoRGE EDWIN Hepricx is assistant manager, Lex-
ington Grocery Co., High Point, N. C. He married Su-
zanne Jackson.

PAauL Swanson Hiv graduated in medicine from
the University of Virginia Medical School in 1930. Spec-
ialized in surgery and is now in private surgical prac-
tice in Harrisonburg, Virginia.

J. Mclver Jackson took his medical degree from
George Washington University in 1933. His address is
206 Newman Ave., Harrisonburg, Va.

REGINAL EUGENE KEPLER is manager of the Com-
pania Telefonica del Pacifico, an affiliate of the Asso-
ciated Telephone and Telegraph Company.

[ 26 |

sa a el et teat

aaa al al in ee ee alii sg

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

1929

Haywarb Francis Day took his M. D. from Flower
Medical College, New York City in June, 1933; had a
year internship at Muhlenberg Hospital, Plainfield, N.
J.: started active practice of medicine October 3, 1934
at 37 Craig Place, North Plainfield, N. J. Was appointed
school physician of North Plainfield Schools and is on
the staff of Muhlenberg Hospital in Plainfield.

KenNEtTH A. DurRHAM married Josephine Snowden,
and they have one son, Taulor Rogers Durham, II. He is
southern representative of Textile Banking Co., at 55
Madison Ave., New York City. He lives at 2123 Dart-
mouth Place, Charlotte, N. C.

Ben Eastwoop lives at 1926 Milan Street, New Or-
leans, La.

HARRISON Foster Epwarps lives at 1812 Market
Street, Wilmington, N. C.

EpmMuND LEE GAMBLE took his Ph. D. at Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology in 1932. He is research
associate and instructor in chemistry at that institution.

Joun Hammon, Jr., took his A. B. degree at Har-
vard in 1929; M.A. from the same school in 1930. He
married Sara Lenoir Bowen, and they live at 3009
Chevy Chase Drive, Houston, Texas.

Jack W. KENNEY is assistant to the treasurer in
charge of banking and investments of Montgomery
Ward and Co., Inc., Chicago, III.

Givpert A. Lapp, JR., is with Thames & Patre, in
the insurance business in Mobile, Alabama.

1930

Dick DovcGutTik, JR., is associated with his father
in the New South Oil Company at Helena, Ark.

Hupert LEE Ecuots lives at 216 N. Coulter St.,
Staunton, Virginia.

MitTcHELL Porter E tis is with the Goodall-Brown
Dry Goods Company of Birmingham, Alabama.

FRANK Owen Evans was first honor graduate of
Mercer law school, Mercer University, 1933, and was
awarded the faculty medal and Harrison prize for high-
est three year law school average. Practicing law in
Milledgeville, Ga.

Wat EwELt is practicing law in Dyersburg, Tenn-
essee. He married Winnie May Orr and they have a
son, Milton Watkins Ewell, Jr.

Hupson Fausert was a professional :.ctor for five
years, appearing with William Faversham, Spencer

Tracy, Pat O’Brien, Nathalie Moorehead; is the author
of two plays; is director of Spring Lake, N. J., Com-
munity Players.

WILLIAM H. Fievps, Jr., has spent a year with Ar-
thur Anderson Co., in New York, a year in the lumber
business, and three years in banking. He married Car-
olyn Thagard, and they have a son, William H. Fields,
III. They live at 2826 Audubon Ave., New Orleans, La.

1931

Tom Fox is associated with his father in the prac-
tice of law in Roanoke, Virginia. He married Virginia
Lacy of Roanoke.

HorackE Goocn, JR., is temporarily located at 68 Al-
lerton St., Plymouth, Mass. He married Jane Bradford
and they have one girl named Sally.

CHAN GorDON is active in alumni affairs in Detroit.
He is with the Carbon Fuel Sales Co., and lives at East
Lansing, Michigan.

BrapForp E. HALkEy is in the real estate business
in Louisiana, Missouri.

FraANK S. HANNA lives at 418 N. 24th Street, St.
Joseph, Mo.

Joun Harotp Harpwick is working in the credit
department of the Louisville Trust Co., Louisville, Ky.

Water E,. HorrMan recently formed a partner-
ship known as Breeden and Hoffman, for the practice
of law in Norfolk, Virginia, with offices at 553-5 Law
building. He is an instructor in law at William and Mary.

WALTER A. HuN‘TSBERRY graduated from West
Point in 1933 and is now a lieutenant in the regular
army stationed in the Philippine Islands. He married
Constance Gwaltney, and they have a son, Walter A.
Huntsberry, Jr.

Rosert CurTHBeErT KELL is preparing for the min-
istry at Virginia Theological Seminary.

Cart JAMEs KiNsEy is with the State Industrial
Bank, 21 West Gay St., Columbus, Ohio.

1932
WILLIAM CHRISTIAN EpwaArps is field representa-
tive, D’Arcy Advertising Company, St. Louis, Mo.
Henry B. FarrcuIcp is living at 2120 Lake Drive,
East Grand Rapids, Mich.

Henry A. Foote is married and has a daughter,
Marion Byrd Foote. He and his family live at 806 N.
Boulevard, Richmond, Va.

[ 27 ]

The cAlumni Magazine, Washington and Lee University

 

Woopson GILLocK is with the DuPont Rayon Co.,
Waynesboro, Va.

Epwarp Gwin, Jr., married Frances Metz Rives.
They live at 815 East 12th Street, Ada, Oklahoma.

JouNn Goapsy HAMILTON is with the U. S. Playing
Card Co. He lives at 5 Sheldon Close, Mariemont, Ohio.

Cotas G. Harris is an executive officer with Na-
tional Archives, Washington, D. C.

Bos Hoap ey has spent his time in graduate work
since leaving the university and has done much foreign
travel.

RicHarp THomas Hopper is editor of The Pro-
gressive Citizen, a weekly paper, Asbury Park, N. J.

JoHN Ropert Horner is general superintendent of
the Delaware Gas Co. He lives at 225 S. Chestnut St.,
Clarksburg, W. Va.

1933

Topp DEVAN has finished his second year in medi-
cine at the University of Pennsylvania.

Win Donuam is with the Bowery Savings Bank,
110 East 42nd St., New York, N. Y.

Joun F. EpMunpson is working for the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation in Washington. His home
address is 1636 Rhode Island Ave., Washington, D. C.

WittiaM Howarp FL Lowers is president of the
Flowers Baking Co., Thomasville, Georgia.

Epwarp E. FErGuson has finished his junior year in
the medical school, George Washington University. Is
doing his interneship in a New York hospital.

JimMi£ GILLEsPIE has been a newspaper reporter,
a writer of short stories and is now with Commissioner
Lewey Robinson of Birmingham, Ala.

JoHN Hucu Grey, Jr., is pastor of the West Ral-
eigh Presbyterian church, Raleigh, N. C.

J. B. WoopviLte, Jr., is a doctor on the staff of the
United States Veterans hospital in Batavia, New York.
He is married and has a son, John B., III.

1934

Dan T. Dunn is living at Apartment 4, 1340 South
Third St., Louisville, Ky.

JAmEs D. Dye attended the University of Texas for
one year after leaving Washington and Lee and since
that time has worked for the Western Supply Co. of
Texas and Oklahoma. He lives at 1003 N. Denver St.,
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

HotmEs Dyer is with the Laurel Rubber Company,
Garfield, N. J. He lives at 75 Lakewood Road, Free-
hold, N. J.

Frep C. FUNKHOUSER spent a year and a half at
the University of Richmond law school after leaving
Washington and Lee, and has been with the A. B. C.
Board of Virginia since May 23, 1934.

LAYNE Forp passed the West Virginia bar exam-
ination September, 1934; practiced for about four months
at Grafton, then temporarily abandoned the practice for
a position in the Charleston office of the state road com-
mission of West Virginia. Was recently appointed man-
aging editor of the West Virginia New Deal, official
publication of the state-wide Young Democratic Club.

1935

JouHN Davin WALL has been in the insurance busi-
ness in Bedford, Indiana, since August, 1934.

GrorcE M. RILky is teaching in the school of or-
ganic education at Fairhope, Alabama.

I*REDERICK DE R. STRONG spent the summer in Spain
and is now with the accounting department of the Vick
Chemical Company in New York. His address is 1140
Fifth Avenue.

1936

N. D. Coa‘rss is in the insurance business in Miami,
Florida.

HERMAN Kart RIEGER lives at 518 Page Ave., Lynd-
hurst, N. J. He is with the United States Department
of Agriculture, P. O. Bldg., East Orange, N. J.

 

Marriages

Juti1an Howarp BLaAck of Washington, Class of
1930, was married November 12 to Miss Charlotte Atlee.
The ceremony was performed at the First Methodist
Episcopal church at Chattanooga, ‘Tenn.

EUGENE PoMEROY MArTIN, JR., class of 1932, and

Miss Margaret Elizabeth Kolb were married November
12 at Baltimore, Md.

FRANK J. BEcKwirH, class of 1915, and Miss Shan-
non Denny, niece of Dr. George Denny, former presi-
dent of Washington and Lee, were married August 31,
1935. Mr. Beckwith, who graduated in law, is practicing
at Charles Town, West Virginia.

[ 28 |

 

 

 

Attention Alumni

THIS IS THE FIRST TIME IT HAS BEEN POSSIBLE TO GET A COAT-OF-ARMS
OF THE UNIVERSITY

Price Postpaid framed $9.00; unframed $1.00

As the supply is limited, send in your order early to

LEE MUSEUM
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

McCRUM’S Boley’s Book Store

HENRY BOLEY, MANAGER

Lexington, Virginia

DRUG STORE
FLOWER SHOP SPECIAL

SODA FOUNTAIN Biographies of Lee and Jackson

(Prices on Application)

BUS TERMINAL

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7x 9, prepaid........ $1.50

General Robert E. Lee, size 9x13, prepaid........ 3.00

Where Students, Alumni, and Their Friends Get To- Nékdtieral! Tadkaon, blab Tues meendil ae.
gether to Enjoy the Best of Ice Cream, Toasted Campus Views, size 7x9, prepaid............ .. “bee

ich ; :
Sandwiches, and Fountain Drinks Money Order or Check should accompany order

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Virginia Smokeless Coal Company
Exclusive Miners and Shippers of
JEWEL POCAHONTAS COAL
Bluefield, West Virginia

Correspondence from Washington and Lee men about the use of coal either upon large contracts or for do-
mestic consumption can be addressed to anyone of the three officers below. If interested in the technical side
ask for special booklet.

Geo. W. St. Clair C. R. Brown, Jr., Huston St.Clair
Class of 1891 Class of 1916 Class of 1922

 

 

ii

 

> 2S United States
pg % Treasury Building

  
     
    
  

From 1900 up to 1934 the leaf

tobacco used for cigarettes in-

  
  
 

 
  
 
  

During the year ending June 30,
1900, the Government collected
from Cigarette taxes

$3,969,191
For the year ending June 30,
1934, the same taxes were

creased from
13,084,037 Ibs. to
326,093,357 Ibs. ;

an increase of 2392%

 
 
 
 

    

There is no substitute

  

“ie ‘ 350,299,442
or mild, ripe tobacco. 7 $350,299,
f : i a an increase of 8725%
SRE —a lot of money.
- —— 0.

Cigarettes give a lot of
pleasure to a lot of people.

 

More cigarettes are smoked today because
more people know about them—they are better advertised.
But the main reason for the increase is that they are made
better—made of better tobaccos; then again the tobaccos
are blended—a blend of Domestic and Turkish tobaccos.
Chesterfield is made of mild, ripe tobaccos.
Everything that science knows about is used in
making it a milder and better-tasting cigarette.

We believe you will enjoy them.

© 1935, Liccetr & Myers Tosacco Co,

