 

tet

a

ae poy’ a eae

¢ = }
, “Ks
Span Oe 4 iy e,

2

>

 

€ University Cnorus perjorims im pet as part o

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 61, Number 6, December 1986

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COouLLING, Editorial Assistant
Patrick HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, IIl.

JoHN W. Fotsom, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, ’62, Treasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR Jr., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBose AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, 67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, 63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., 65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

WaynE D. McGrew Jr., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

PAuL J. B. Murpuy, ’49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 53
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 57
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-

nati, Ohio 45214.
Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

 

On the Inside

7

ae

The Morris House

 

2 A Greek Revival?

 

6 Return of Fijis

 

8 Celebrating Preservation

 

10 #=The Best Years

 

15 Searching for Answers

 

20 Tortoises and Washboards

 

23 W&L Gazette

 

28 Generals Report

 

31 Alumni News

 

33. Class Notes

 

38 In Memoriam

 

40 # And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Lois and Leslie Marks, parents of W&L junior R.
Daniel Fales, inspect the unique flora of the Galapagos Islands
as one of the famous tortoises ignores their presence. Mr. and Mrs.
Marks were members of the Alumni College trip to the Galapagos.
(See story on page 20.) Photo by Cleveland Hickman.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEES tt

 

 

Saaatinsnestasnnsserscse

   

 

 

Three faces of
Washington and Lee
fraternity life—the rush
experience, parties, and
meetings—have not
changed dramatically
in recent years.

A Greek Revival?

 

Alumni Fraternity Council’s Symposium Cites Problems, Promise

 

D.. George Junkin, president of
Washington College from 1848 to 1861, was
concerned.

In his annual report for 1857, Junkin
noted that the two secret societies at the
College—Phi Kappa Psi and Beta Theta
Pi—had concluded the academic year with
‘ta drinking festival’’ in violation of several
College laws. Furthermore, Junkin observ-
ed that fraternities had ‘‘produced most
disastrous consequences’’ in other
institutions.

In response to Junkin’s somber assess-
ment, the Trustees resolved that ‘‘no student
of this College shall be permitted to hold a
connexion with any Society whose character
is not approved by the Faculty.’’

Thus does Ollinger Crenshaw, writing in
General Lee’s College, his definitive history
of Washington and Lee, describe the early
days of fraternity life at W&L. Although the
coming of the Civil War temporarily
suspended fraternities at the school, the
groups were later reorganized.

Writes Crenshaw: ‘‘The days of im-
pressive fraternity houses did not dawn un-
til after 1920, but the fraternity system
became entrenched at Washington and Lee
between 1865 and 1900.’’

Entrenched is, indeed, the appropriate
word. Although the popularity of fraternities
has fluctuated in this century—with member-
ship ranging from 90 percent of the student
body in the 1950s to around 55 percent in
the 1970s—the organizations have remain-
ed an integral part of life at Washington and
Lee. In the 1985-86 academic year, approx-
imately 70 percent of the male
undergraduates were fraternity members.

If the popularity fraternities continue to
enjoy among today’s students is any indica-
tion, Washington and Lee’s fraternity system
will remain strong. Yet, the raising of the
drinking age to 21 in Virginia, problems with
community relations, the economic viabili-
ty of individual fraternity houses, and an in-
creased awareness of liability and _ risk
management—issues surfacing on every col-
lege campus where fraternities exist—have
forced a reexamination of the purpose and
function of these organizations.

 

By Brian Shaw

Paul J. B. Murphy Jr., ’49

A. Washington and Lee such a reex-
amination brought together almost 150
fraternity members, faculty, administrators,
representatives of several national frater-
nities, and other interested observers in the
Moot Courtroom of Lewis Hall on an Oc-
tober Saturday. The daylong fraternity sym-
posium was sponsored by the Alumni Frater-
nity Council, a group founded in 1985 ‘‘to
promote the well-being of the fraternity
system at Washington and Lee through the
participation of alumni in fraternity affairs.’’

The purpose of the symposium, in the
words of Paul J. B. Murphy Jr., ’49, presi-
dent of the Alumni Fraternity Council, was
**to give broad visibility to the alumni interest
in the renaissance of the W&L fraternity
system and in the maintenance of that system

in such a manner as to best support Univer-
sity and fraternity goals.’’

Across the nation, as well as at
Washington and Lee, fraternities have en-
joyed a rebirth and a resurgence. Recent ar-
ticles in Time and Newsweek have heralded
‘‘the rebounding of the Greeks.’’ A
November 1984 article in Newsweek stated
that most students think fraternities and
sororities make contributions to a student’s
education and believe the organizations give
students ‘‘an edge in later life.”’

A dark side of fraternity life has also
emerged. The 1978 film Animal House,
which depicted raucous drinking, aberrant
behavior, and downright surliness in a
mythical fraternity house, helped form—or
reinforce—the opinion held by many that
fraternities are irresponsible and have no
place in an academic setting.

In some cases, Murphy told the sym-
posium, ‘‘fraternity chapters have become
less and less a place of support and bonding.
Now, almost the sole objective is having a
party. There is behavior that is encouraged
and condoned at some fraternities that is not
normally found elsewhere.’’

President John D. Wilson, in opening
remarks to the group, called for a ‘‘rethink-
ing and an optimistic restructuring’’ of the
University’s fraternity system.

**T sense that an opportunity is lying at
our fingertips for real change to be made,”’
he said.

Wilson, himself a member of the Sigma
Nu fraternity, called for a return to the
golden age of fraternities at Washington and
Lee, when ‘‘silver-haired house mothers’’
provided continuity from year to year as the
membership changed, when the houses were
a focal point for intellectual discourse rather
than just social functions, when the chapters
employed extensive pledge-training pro-
grams, and when the houses held ‘‘elegant
and elaborate parties that the whole com-
munity looked forward to.”’

‘*The concept of the fraternity house has
changed,’’ he said. ‘‘They have now become
small party pavilions instead of residences.
We have a whole set of positive latent values
waiting to be realized.’’

W&L 3

 

 

The symposium was broken down into
three primary topics: the impact of frater-
nities on the quality of life at W&L, with an
emphasis on academics, student conduct, the
Honor System, and social activities; issues
involving liability, insurance, legal concerns,
and alcohol use and/or abuse; and
rehabilitation and maintenance of fraterni-
ty housing.

In a panel discussion on the first topic,
both students and faculty agreed that frater-
nities could do more to promote the
academic growth of their members. The
grade-point average for all students during
last year’s winter term was 2.686; the average
GPA for all fraternity members in the same
term was 2.618; non-fraternity members
recorded an average GPA of 2.812.

‘‘T hope for neutrality,’’ Wilson said.
‘‘What I hope for is an atmosphere that
won’t make it difficult for pledges and other
students to work (on their studies).”’

Wilson has suggested that fraternities
could take the initiative by inviting faculty
members for dinner followed by informal
discussions of current events. Such mini-
seminars would augment class discussions on
topics of the students’ choosing.

John Cummings, a senior and president
of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity, agreed
that fraternities should take an active,
positive role in their members’ academic
development. He cited the mandatory study
halls and extensive files of ‘‘cold tests’’ (.e.,
old tests that are no longer in use but can
be valuable study aids) that his fraternity
maintains as representative steps toward en-
couraging increased academic responsibility.

With the emphasis on the accountability
of fraternities, both socially and academical-
ly, some fraternity members believe the ad-
ministration would like to see a weakening
or abolition of the Greek system. That is
simply not the case, said University Trustee
J. Thomas Touchton, ’60.

Touchton, who is chairman of the
Trustees’ campus life committee, assured the
symposium participants that ‘‘the Board of
Trustees and the administration are not out
to get the fraternities.’’

‘““We recognize the advantages and
benefits of the self-governing aspects of the
fraternities,’’ he said, adding that, in turn,
““‘the fraternities must realize that they are
part of a larger community.”’

‘“You are Washington and Lee to most
of the Lexington community,”’ said John W.
Folsom, ’73, an Alumni Board member,
directing his remarks to the students in at-
tendance. ‘‘The members of this communi-
ty probably have more contact with W&L
through you than through the faculty and
administration.’’

4 WE&L

Fraternities at Washington and Lee prob-
ably come under closer scrutiny from the
public than similar groups at other institu-
tions. Since all the fraternity houses are
located off campus, many in residential
neighborhoods, W&L fraternities must work
hard at public relations with their neighbors.

Those neighborly relations have often
been strained. The problems brought about
by the large attendance at fraternity parties
and the litter and noise that accompany those
parties make it easy for townsfolk to accuse
the fraternities of being bad neighbors.

 

 

‘‘Fraternities are part of the larger com-
munity, and steps must be taken for them
to act accordingly,’’ said Lewis G. John, ’58,
dean of students at W&L. In that regard,
John encouraged fraternities to work at be-
ing more responsible citizens, perhaps by
undertaking more community projects.

‘‘Do things to promote better relation-
ships with your neighbors,’’ John
recommended.

Pesan the harshest criticism of the
Washington and Lee fraternity system came

 

Chuck White of Sigma Phi Epsilon

 

John W. Folsom, ’73

 

Edward L. Bishop, ’68

from Chuck White of Richmond, a national
representative of the Sigma Phi Epsilon
fraternity.

‘*You need a lot of optimism to be
operating in the environment I’ve heard
about here,’’ White said, noting that ‘‘the
W&L fraternity system is fertile ground’’ for
liability risk and a potential lawsuit.

White cited four areas that merit the
special attention of every fraternity: the safe-
ty of the individual houses; the treatment of
visitors, especially women; drug abuse; and
alcohol abuse. In regard to alcohol abuse,
White said a dismaying pattern is being set
at the beginning of rush when freshmen
receive handbooks detailing the guidelines
for the procedure by which fraternities add
new members. Those handbooks, White
noted, contained 58 photographs that show
students consuming alcoholic beverages;
since the handbook is 56 pages long, that is
more than one such photo per page.

Further, White decried the practice of
holding open parties at the fraternity houses,

J. Thomas Touchton, ’*60

saying it was ‘‘optimistic and foolish’’ to
think that a tragedy stemming from excessive
alcohol consumption at such parties would
not occur at W&L. The phrase ‘‘open par-
ties’? means exactly that—events that are
open to anyone who wants to attend.
Popular at virtually every W&L fraternity
house, the parties often include a number of
kegs of beer and other forms of alcohol and
last until the early morning. With so many
students—both from W&L and other area
schools—coming and going during the even-
ing, it is virtually impossible to check iden-
tification or to watch for revelers who have
had too much to drink.

In response to this concern over open
parties, Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, 68,
associate dean of students for fraternity af-
fairs, recently distributed a four-page docu-
ment entitled ‘‘A Case Against Open Par-
ties.’” The arguments against the parties in-
volve lack of control, neighbor relations,
violations of the law, and added liability
exposure.

Lewis G. John, ’58

‘*T would hate to see anything happen to
a fraternity on this campus,’’ White said,
‘*‘but the odds are stacked against you”’ if the
practice of open parties continues.

White’s remarks followed the presenta-
tion of a videotape produced by the national
office of Sigma Phi Epsilon. The tape
documented an incident at the University of
Texas, where a vice president of the local
Kappa Alpha chapter successfully sued the
fraternity and others after he was involved
in an automobile accident that left him a
quadriplegic. Alcohol served at a party spon-
sored by the fraternity was found to be a ma-
jor contributing factor in the accident. The
suit was settled for $1.9 million.

Part of the problem fraternities have with
open parties and community relations, said
Edward L. Bishop, ’68, president of the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity housing corpora-
tion, is student behavior.

‘*The students are not performing to the
level expected of them from the University
and alumni,’’ Bishop said. ‘*‘When you think

W&L 5

 

 

 

about the distance you have deviated from
standard behavior, you realize we have a
problem.’’

As the architect of the plan that brought
about the rebuilding of the Phi Gamma Delta
house following a fire in 1984 (see accom-
panying story), Bishop and his housing cor-
poration have set standards for behavior at
the Phi Gamma Delta House to protect the
corporation’s substantial investment. The
bottom line for any housing corporation,
Bishop argued, should be: ‘‘I own the place,
and I am simply not going to stand for the
destruction.

‘I think you [fraternity members] owe
it to yourselves to have a decent place to
live,’’ he said.

Although the University assumed the
maintenance of the heating, electrical, and
plumbing systems at all the houses in 1980,
the primary responsibility still falls on each
fraternity’s housing corporation. It is the
housing corporation’s duty to maintain a
safe house for its members, said Gary
Angstadt, executive director of Phi Kappa
Psi fraternity.

‘‘The house is a very special place,’’
Angstadt added. ‘‘It becomes the focus of
the fraternity’s identity.’’ Bishop agreed, say-
ing that it is the house itself that alumni often
think of when they return to Washington and
Lee.

Bion the day it became apparent
that while Washington and Lee’s fraternity
system, like such systems elsewhere, has its
problems, there is also promise. Alan
Groves, executive director of the Pi Kappa
Alpha national fraternity, offered this assess-
ment from his observations of the W&L
fraternity scene:

‘“The system here is a good one and your
Honor System is exceptional. You have an
asset that many institutions envy,”’ he said.
‘“The Honor System, though, should be put
in place in each of the fraternity houses. Ex-
pect from the members what you expect
from yourselves as students.”’

In effect, Groves said, it is ultimately up
to the students to rejuvenate and revitalize
the system.

R. Maxwell McGrew, ’87, president of
Phi Delta Theta, summarized that
philosophy by saying: ‘‘Change is going to
have to be made by the students, not by the
administration putting down the rules.’’

The Alumni Fraternity Council tentative-
ly plans to issue a white paper from the sym-
posium. Since the day of discussions focus-
ed on so many aspects of the system, that
white paper could serve as a blueprint for
restructuring the Washington and Lee frater-
nity system.

6 W&L

 

A New Beginning For Fijis

A few construction workers remain,
their work disturbing the early morning
quietude of the Phi Gamma Delta frater-
nity. The pounding of hammer on nail,
the whining of power saw on wood, and
the crackle and pop of acetylene torch on
cold, hard iron serve as a kind of crude
alarm clock for the brothers of Phi Gam-
ma Delta.

But the brothers don’t seem to mind
the early wake-up calls. They know the
sounds, intrusive as they are, represent
progress and, in a very real way, the
fraternity’s future.

‘‘The work that’s getting done is
great,’’ says Jim Cockey, president of Phi
Gamma Delta (known informally as Fi-
ji). ‘“The disturbances are really not a big
deal. We appreciate the work they’ve
done.”’

The work that has been done is a com-
plete rebuilding of the house that was
destroyed by fire on April 11, 1984. That
fire, determined by police to be caused by
arson, killed Thomas John Fellin, a
junior from Weston, Pa., and seemed at
the time to signal the end of the Fiji
chapter at Washington and Lee.

Now, the house again stands proudly
at the corner of Preston Street and
Jackson Avenue. The limestone exterior
has been restored to the beauty and splen-
dor that, prior to the fire, had marked the
home as one of Lexington’s finest
residences. Work on the interior con-
tinues, although 22 brothers are living in
rooms on the second and third floors.

When finished in time for the open-
ing of classes in January, the completely
redesigned interior will serve as a pro-
totype for the modern fraternity house.
A handmade spiral staircase creates a
dramatic entrance to the living room and
provides a focal point for the first floor
reception area. The slightly raised living
room opens from the foyer and also
opens toward the pine-paneled dining
room.

For the brothers of Fiji, the spacious
basement is perhaps the best feature of
the reconstruction. The basement party
room features a high ceiling, a permanent
bandstand, restrooms, a wet bar, and a
chapter room for meetings. All student
parties will be restricted to that room.

The reconstructed and refurbished
house is a far cry from the makeshift

headquarters that Fiji had after the fire
in a small home on Henry Street.

It is tempting to call the restoration
of the Fiji house and the rejuvenation of
the chapter a minor miracle. That is too
easy. The gleaming white house stands as
a monument to planning, hard work, and
the dedication of many alumni and
students who were unwilling to allow Fi-
ji to become a footnote in the history of
Washington and Lee fraternities.

When the ashes, debris, and soot set-
tled from the fire in 1984, the Fiji hous-
ing corporation was faced with a dilem-
ma. The remaining walls were so weaken-
ed by the fire and so much of the building
was destroyed that razing what was left
of the home seemed to be the best option.

Enter Ed Bishop, ’68.

A brusque, no-nonsense fellow with
a keen understanding of financing,
Bishop remembered the Fiji house as a
special place during his undergraduate
years at W&L. As Bishop saw it, the Fiji
house was more than a physical location
for parties and camaraderie. It was a
place that fostered leadership and helped
develop skills that Bishop has put to good
use in the years since he has been away
from W&L. Bishop found he was not
alone in those sentiments.

‘*T contacted a number of alumni who
had enjoyed tremendously good ex-
periences in that house,’’ said Bishop,
who is president of E. L. Bishop and
Associates in New York. ‘‘They felt the
fraternities were a worthy enterprise in the
development of young men and wanted
to leave the house as a legacy for other
guys to follow.’’

As Bishop and other Fijis admit, the
fraternity had fallen on bad times just
before the fire, with its ‘‘Animal House’’
reputation creating some public relations
problems at W&L and in the Lexington
community. Fellin, the student killed in
the fire, had begun to take a leadership
role in efforts to change the fraternity’s
negative image.

‘*That fire, as tragic as it was, provid-
ed the opportunity for us to start over at
ground zero,’’ said Bishop. ‘‘We polled
a lot of alumni and found there was
enough support for us to go ahead with
reestablishing the fraternity. We polled
further to ask if those alumni wanted a
new design for the house or wanted to in-

 

 

corporate the old design and remaining
structure.”’

The alumni voted to rebuild the ex-
terior of the house, with the interior
adapted for contemporary fraternity use.
Design conferences at various locations
across the country followed. Once the
design was completed, Bishop and his
counterparts turned to the prevailing
question: ‘‘How will we pay for the
reconstruction?”’

Using his background in finance and
a model from a dormitory reconstruction
project at Towson State University near
Baltimore, Bishop came up with a limited
partnership of investors. The partnership,
consisting of six alumni, purchased the
house and land from the housing corpora-
tion. Once the house was ready for oc-
cupancy, the partnership leased it to the
housing corporation, which then sublet
rooms to the brothers of Fiji.

In return for putting up their money
for the reconstruction of the house, the
members of the limited partnership
received an eight percent return on their
investment of $225,000. Bishop calls the
arrangement ‘‘a rather complex transac-
tion,’’ but the plan has worked.

In addition to the funds put up by the
partnership, the fraternity also had
$350,000 in insurance money from the
fire. A fundraising campaign directed at
Fiji alumni netted an additional $125,000.

When all work on the house is com-

 

pleted, the total cost is anticipated to be
about $775,000. Bishop expects to make
up the difference between the cost and the
partnership money through additional
fundraisers.

Since the partnership owns the house,
Bishop has designed a set of rules to pro-
tect the investment. The rules may seem
harsh compared with regulations gover-
ning other fraternities, but Bishop says
with characteristic candor that the Fiji
house belongs to the partnership and ‘‘it’s
my way or the highway.’’

Among the rules installed by the part-
nership are fines of 200 percent of the
total replacement cost for damage incur-
red to the house. A second act of destruc-
tion calls for a fine equalling 400 percent
of the replacement cost. A third offense
brings expulsion from the house.

‘*It’s hard to argue that anyone gets
anything positive from trashing the
house,’’ Bishop says.

Other rules include restricting parties
for students to the basement, a dress code
for meals served in the dining room,
hours set aside daily for cleaning the liv-
ing areas in the house, and immediate ex-
pulsion for possessing or using drugs in
the house.

Perhaps the most visible change is the
installation of a house mother. Carroll
Voght, whose son David is a 1985
graduate of Washington and Lee, mov-
ed into her quarters in a wing of the house

Phi Gamma Delta
president Jim
Cockey, ’88, (left)
talks about the
rebuilt house with
alumni members of
the fraternity (from
left) Jack Norberg,
80; Bill Terry, ’75;
Ed Bishop, ’68;
Steve Rideout, ’65;
and Don Patterson,
m 67.

in October. As an agent of the partner-
ship, Voght is charged with overseeing the
day-to-day operation of the house and en-
forcing the rules set forth by the
partnership.

With so many rules in place, one
might assume that the brothers living in
the house would feel constricted. They say
that is not the case.

‘‘The rules are strict, but logical,’’
says President Cockey. ‘“The support (for
the partnership) goes both ways.”’

Once the interior is completed in
January, only landscaping will remain to
finish the reconstruction project. The
partnership and the Fiji members hope
the entire project will be finished by ear-
ly spring, when the house will be a
featured stop on the Garden Week tour
in Lexington. As far as anyone can
remember, Phi Gamma Delta will be the
first W&L fraternity house to be includ-
ed on that tour. The house will be official-
ly dedicated in ceremonies during the May
alumni reunions.

The Fiji fraternity has continued to
grow in membership throughout the
three-year ordeal as the house was rebuilt.
In Cockey’s opinion, the Fijis have given
a new definition to the term
‘*brotherhood.”’

‘*Everybody who’s a Fiji knows what
it means,’’ he said. ‘‘The house will be
a showplace for W&L, but the
brotherhood is also a showplace.’’

 

W&L

 

 

 

£2

HOUSE

  
   

Stewart and Joella Morris

Ate: months of planning and preparation, the Joella and
Stewart Morris House was formally dedicated during two days of
celebration in October.

The Morris House is the University’s new guest house and
seminar/reception center. Located at 6 University Place, the house
is one of four homes built on the Front Campus in 1842. It was
formerly used as a residence for deans and senior faculty members.
A gift from Joella and Stewart Morris of Houston, Texas, made
possible the restoration of the house.

Held in conjunction with the Morris House dedication was an
all-day symposium on the University’s rich architectural heritage
and this latest in continuing efforts to preserve that heritage.

Titled ‘‘Art and Architecture of Washington and Lee in the
19th Century,’’ the symposium brought together a number of
leading experts on art history, preservation, and restoration.

Among those speaking at the symposium was Mary Tyler
Freeman Cheek, a member of the board of directors of Stratford
Hall. (Mrs. Cheek’s lecture, ‘‘Robert E. Lee: The Best Years,’’
is reprinted beginning on page 10.)

Christine Meadows, curator of the Mount Vernon Ladies
Association of the Union, spoke on ‘‘George Washington: Educa-
tion and Art,’’ and Daniel P. Jordan, director of Monticello, gave
a paper titled ‘‘Thomas Jefferson: West of the Blue Ridge.’’

Jack W. Warner, ’41, chairman and chief executive officer of
Gulf States Paper Co. in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and a Trustee Emeritus
of Washington and Lee, offered ‘‘An Overview of American Art,”’
focusing on the varied works in his considerable collection. John
Frazier Hunt, president of the Decorative Arts Trust of America,
spoke about the changes that occurred in decorative arts during
the 19th century.

W&L

 

The Morris House dining room

Celebrating
Preservation

 

The Morris House Dedication
Features Major Symposium

 

Also participating in the symposium were Pamela H. Simpson,
professor of art history at W&L; Dr. Wilton S. Dillon of the
Smithsonian Institution; and James W. Whitehead, secretary of
the University and director of W&L’s Reeves Center.

Although the subjects covered during the symposium ranged
from the Washington family portraits to Robert E. Lee’s life in
Lexington, the emphasis was on the most recent restoration proj-
ect at Washington and Lee. In remarks during a banquet com-
memorating the Morris House dedication, J. Jackson Walter, presi-
dent of the National Trust for Historic Preservation and honorary
chairman of the symposium, put the Morris House restoration proj-
ect in perspective: ‘‘(The Morrises’) support for Washington and
Lee... has... developed into a strong friendship whose ultimate
beneficiary will be the academic environment of a great university.

‘Here in Virginia or in the Morrises’ native Texas or in Califor-
nia or off in the corners of Maine, folks know that caring for the
past in our communities enriches our lives today and will enrich
the lives of countless generations who will come down after us.
We know that historic preservation is a key ingredient in any prop-
er recipe for saving and building our communities, be they large
or small.’’

The University’s role in such preservation efforts, Walter noted,
is crucial: ‘‘The example set by Washington and Lee in historic
preservation will echo on campuses and in communities across the
country in the years to come. For on your campus, the physical
buildings are living symbols of an educational tradition of diver-
sity and a search for truth.”’

What made the Morris House renovation effort particularly
significant was the extent to which it involved individuals from
all over the University community. Stewart and Joella Morris,

 

 

The Morris House garden room

whose $250,000 gift provided the impetus for the project, have no
formal connection with the University. They have, however, long
been interested in historical preservation. The president and co-
chief executive officer of Stewart Information Services Corp.,
Stewart Morris is a former advisory director of the National Trust
for Preservation. Joella Morris founded the Confederate Museum
of Richmond, Texas, and is a past president of the Colonial Dames
of America.

In remarks during the dedication ceremony, which was held
under a warm autumn sun on the steps of the house, Washington
and Lee President John D. Wilson said of the Morrises: ‘‘There
are people all over this nation who have in the past and do now
and will in the future reach out and help us to keep this heritage,
this institution, alive and strong and progressing for the years yet
to come. Joella and Stewart Morris are the most recent and most
vivid examples of that generosity.’’

The president spoke also of the many other individuals who
contributed in various ways to the project. James W. Whitehead
spearheaded the restoration effort. Henry L. Ravenhorst, professor
of engineering emeritus, directed the architectural renovations,
which included digging a basement, reinforcing the walls, install-

a
s
2
7

 

Symposium speakers and participants included (front row, from left)
Jack W. Warner, ’41; Pamela H. Simpson; Mary Tyler Freeman
Cheek; Wilton S. Dillon; (second row, from left) Christine Meadows;
James W. Whitehead; J. Jackson Walter; John F. Hunt; (third row,
from left) W&L Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48L; Daniel P. Jordan;
W&L President John D. Wilson.

ing air conditioning and heating, and building an addition at the
rear of the house.

The house has been furnished primarily with Victorian pieces
given to the University in 1967 by Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves.
Like the house itself, much of the furniture also required exten-
sive restoration. Beds, tables, and chairs were refinished and, in
some cases, even rebuilt by members of the University’s buildings
and grounds crew.

Ben Chapman, ’64, who now serves as director of the Morris
House, searched through W&L’s collection of more than 500 prints
and paintings to choose 24 to hang in the Morris House.

The efforts of so many individuals did not go unnoticed by
those who were on hand for the dedication ceremonies. Said Hunt,
of the Decorative Arts Trust: ‘“The contribution to this house from
people all across the country will be a legend.’’

The newly restored house will be used for a variety of purposes.
Visiting speakers and other University guests may stay in one of
the two upstairs bedrooms, which are designated, appropriately,
the Washington Room and the Lee Suite. The Morris House also
provides a setting for small luncheons, dinners, receptions, and
meetings.

W&L 9

 

 

Michael Miley 5 Lee on

   

ae ae
?

veller

 

The Best Years

 

Robert E. Lee Was Never More at Home Than in Lexington

 

WV ise the name of Robert Edward
Lee is mentioned, our response is to picture
a general, the peerless leader of the Army of
the Confederacy. Relatively little attention
has been directed toward the last five years
of Lee’s life, his years at Washington Col-
lege. These were, I think, his best years.

How President Robert E. Lee would have
delighted in the preservation program now
in progress at the University named for him!
He would rejoice particularly in the recent-
ly completed Morris House, which will serve
as a guest house and a setting for social
gatherings.

Lee’s mother was a Carter, and the
Carters are a prolific clan. Ann Carter Lee
was one of the 21 children of Charles Carter,
and her Uncle Robert of Nomini Hall was
the father of 16. Robert’s cousins were
legion, and there was a continual exchange
of visits among a friendly, agreeable throng.
Robert E. Lee enjoyed company.

 

In a manner of speaking, Mary Tyler Freeman
Cheek grew up with Robert E. Lee. Her father,
Douglas Southall Freeman, was Lee’s biographer.
A graduate of Vassar College, she has been ac-
tive in numerous civic organizations, including the
boards of the R. E. Lee Memorial Association and
Stratford, Lee’s boyhood home. In 1977, she and
her husband, Leslie Cheek Jr., gave the Universi-
ty Skylark, a 365-acre estate and Christmas tree
farm in Nelson County. Both Mr. and Mrs. Cheek
received honorary degrees from Washington and
Lee in 1983. The following is adapted from
remarks Mrs. Cheek made during the Morris
House symposium.

10 W&L

By Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek

Let us look at this man who in five years
not only rescued Washington College from
oblivion, but restored and rebuilt it on new
foundations of progress and hope. The por-
trait of Lt. Robert Edward Lee at the age of
31, painted by William West in 1838, shows
a young officer who was called ‘‘the hand-
somest man in the United States Army.’’ But
we see something much more important than
good looks in the face; there is a force, a pas-
sionate vitality that rivets our attention. One
is aware that this is no ordinary person.

Lee’s life before and during the war is so
well known that I shall review it only brief-
ly. Born at Stratford in Westmoreland Coun-
ty in 1807, he moved with his family to Alex-
andria when he was not quite four. His
father, the Revolutionary hero ‘‘Light Horse
Harry,’’ was brutally beaten by a mob in
Baltimore in 1812 and left for Barbados the
following year in the hope of recovering his
shattered health. Robert was six when his
father left home, and he never saw him
again; Light Horse Harry died as he attempt-
ed to return to Virginia. Mrs. Lee was in frail
health, as was her daughter Ann, and by the
time Robert was 12 he was in charge of the
household, carrying the keys, apportioning
supplies, and often nursing his mother and
sister.

Young Robert Lee went to West Point
because his mother could not afford to send
him to a college that required tuition. She
was desolate. ‘‘How can I live without
Robert?’’ she asked. ‘‘He is both son and

 

daughter to me.’’ He graduated second in his
class, without a single demerit, adjutant of
the Corps. He was popular; Joseph E.
Johnston, his close friend who was to be one
of his generals, later wrote in characteristic
Victorian style that ‘‘no one so united the
qualities that win warm friendship and com-
mand high respect. . . .he was full of sym-
pathy and kindness, genial and fond of gay
conversation, and even of fun, while his cor-
rectness of demeanor and attention to all
duties, personal and official, and a dignity
as much a part of himself as the elegance of
his person, gave him a superiority that
everyone acknowledged in his heart.”’
Robert Lee loved people, especially the
young, and especially pretty women. He
made no secret of his love of the ladies.
When he was a young lieutenant stationed
at Fortress Monroe, he wrote a fellow officer
in early summer, ‘‘As for the daughters of
Eve in this country, they are formed in the
very poetry of nature, and would make your
lips water and your fingers tingle. They are
beginning to assemble to put their beautiful
limbs in this salt water.’’ Twelve years later
when he was 35 he wrote another officer
friend: ‘‘You are right in my interest in pretty
women—it is strange that I do not lose it with
age. But I perceive no dimunition.’’ One of
his favorites was the wife of his commanding
officer and close friend at Fortress Monroe,
Capt. Andrew Talcott. His letters to Mrs.
Talcott often began, ‘‘Talcott, my beauty.”’
When a former love, Eliza Mackay, was

William West’s portrait of Lt. Robert Edward Lee

5

‘... there is a force, a passionate vitality that rivets our
attention. One is aware that this is no ordinary person.”’

 

 

 

married a year after his own wedding, he
wrote her, ‘‘Oh Mercy Are you really mar-
ried Mrs. Stiles? The idea of it is as great a
damper to a man’s spirit as that of the
cholera.”’

The Mexican War brought Lee promotion
and early fame; his years as superintendent
of West Point highlighted the wisdom and
kindly justice that made him a beloved leader
of men. There were also periods of frustra-
tion and depression. He suffered when he
was separated from his family, and life at
Arlington was not always idyllic. Until they
came to Washington College, Robert and
Mary Lee never had a home of their own.
Except for those times when the family could
be together at an Army post, they lived with
Mary’s parents at Arlington. After Mr.
Custis’ death, it was Lee’s task to settle his
father-in-law’s estate and to try to bring
order out of years of neglect. When he was
posted to cavalry service after two years’
leave of absence, he wrote to his daughter
Annie, to whom he was very close, ‘‘It is bet-
ter... 1 hope for all that I am here. You
know I was much in the way of everybody
[at Arlington], and my tastes and pursuits
did not coincide with the rest of the
household. Now I hope everybody is hap-
pier.”’

The Civil War robbed Robert Edward
Lee of his joy and of the innate gaiety that
shines through his early letters. And although
he didn’t know it when he accepted the
presidency of Washington College, it had
also destroyed his health. He had an ailing
heart and hardening arteries.

He came to Lexington to take over the
presidency of Washington College on Sept.
18, 1865, five months after he had sur-
rendered the Army of the Confederacy at
Appomattox. He had ridden alone on
Traveller from Powhatan County, where he
had been living in Derwent, a four-room cot-
tage loaned to him. The trip took three days.
The house on the campus in which earlier
presidents had lived was occupied by a doc-
tor, and since there were so few habitable
houses left in the city, the doctor could not
find another residence. Until the doctor
could move, Lee stayed first with Capt.
James J. White and then at the Lexington
Hotel. During his first week at the college
he wrote his wife, ‘‘I wish you were all with
me. I feel very solitary and miss you all
dreadfully.”’

In early December his family arrived by
horse-drawn canal boat, and they moved into
the house just up the hill from where the
chapel now stands. Stonewall Jackson had
lived there in a small apartment when he
married the daughter of a former president,

12) W&L

Rev. George Junkin. But Lee’s joy in hav-
ing his family with him probably laid to rest
the ghostly presence of his greatest lieuten-
ant. Now he was surrounded by those he lov-
ed most, and the best years of his life were
about to begin.

A more unlikely setting for the flower-
ing of a great life can hardly be imagined.
Lexington, a town of 2,500 people, was in
Calvinist country; predominantly Pres-
byterian of Scotch-Irish background, its
citizens were hardworking, sober, and
straight-laced. The town was under the com-
mand of Federal forces. It had suffered
woefully during the war, and the college had
barely survived. Federal troops had occupied
the college buildings; they had destroyed the
laboratory equipment, scattered the library,
and damaged every structure. Some were still
in residence. The grounds were worn and
neglected; there was hardly any grass left.

All that remained of the former college
was essentially a preparatory school with
four professors who taught about 40 young
boys under military age. Everything was in
disrepair, and the college was virtually
bankrupt. The faithful and undaunted
trustees who elected Robert E. Lee president
had to borrow $50 and a suit of clothing for
their emissary, Judge John Brockenbrough,
the president of the Board, to travel to Der-
went to ask Lee’s acceptance.

Potentially most destructive of all in this
new environment were the emotional wounds
of the citizens. In the bitterness of defeat,
hatred.of the enemy and violent resentment
of the newly freed blacks smoldered just
under the surface. They were bombs ready
to explode at the slightest provocation.

Lee was inaugurated president of
Washington College on Oct. 1, 1865, ina
small, quiet ceremony upon which he had in-
sisted, although the Trustees had planned a
spectacular celebration. The ceremony took
place in the physics laboratory on the second
floor of what was then South Hall. He wore
a suit of gray, made from a uniform from
which the insignia had been removed.

After the brief rites were completed, the
little procession moved into the adjoining
room which was to be Lee’s office. A laun-
dry basket of letters awaited him, and dur-
ing the ensuing days, he answered every one,
and hundreds more that poured in, in his
own hand; he had no secretary.

One of the signatures that he inscribed
that first day was on the oath of allegiance
to the United States, which he forwarded to
Washington. The paper was lost in
Washington and was not discovered until a
century later. But the significance of the sign-
ing on Oct. 2, 1865, must never be forgot-
ten. From the very beginning Lee set his hand

to work for peace and reconciliation.

In his excellent book Lee: The Last
Years, Charles Bracelon Flood quotes a
definition of intelligence as ‘‘the ability to
decipher the environment.’’ That is a new
definition to me. Flood uses it at the begin-
ning of a chapter outlining Lee’s response
to a college dedicated to the liberal arts, so
different in every way from the military
academy where he had been both student and
superintendent. Flood believes that Lee fell
in love with the freer atmosphere created by
the liberal arts and, I would like to add, with
civilian life, which was so much more con-
genial to his nature.

I think Flood is right, and his thesis ex-
plains Lee’s statement made in Lexington
that the greatest mistake of his life was to
take a military education. We have all heard
that he deliberately walked out of step when
called upon to march in any military proces-
sion. He wrote Gen. Ewell, ‘‘I much enjoy
the charms of civil life and find too late that
I have wasted the best years of my ex-
istence.”’

O.. of the most penetrating of the
thousands of comments about Lee was made
by Edward Clifford Gordon, a 24-year-old
Confederate veteran who came to the college
in September 1866 to serve in the double role
of superintendent of buildings and grounds
and secretary of faculty. He was highly in-
telligent and a hard worker trying to earn
enough to study for the ministry, and this
combination secured the warm admiration
of his boss. For three years he was closely
associated with Lee, and this is what he had
to say about him:

Gordon praised Lee’s modesty, his kind-
ness to animals, and his love of children. He
was awed by Lee’s astonishing memory, his
intuition about people and events, and his
ability to handle infinitely varied and detailed
matters with efficiency. He was most deep-
ly impressed by Lee’s spirituality.

But these qualities, he stated, ‘‘were com-
bined with a fierce and violent temper, prone
to intense expression. . . . He was fond of
elegance of every sort; fine houses, furniture,
plate, clothing, ornaments, horses, equipage.
But he could and did deny himself and his
family the enjoyment of such things when
he did not have the money to buy
them. . . .Intellectually he was cast in a
gigantic mold. Naturally he was possessed of
strong passions. He loved excitement, par-
ticularly the excitement of war. He loved
grandeur. But all these appetites and powers
were brought under the control of his judg-
ment and made subservient to his Christian
faith. This made him habitually unselfish and
ever willing to sacrifice himself on the altar

 

of duty and in the service of his fellows.”’

That Lee loved elegance and grandeur
comes as a surprise to most of us. But it is
clearly evident at Arlington, where the parlor
is furnished according to Lee’s directions.
The white walls set off a suite of gilt furniture
upholstered in scarlet damask; the curtains
are of the same scarlet with ornate gold
pelmets. Living in the house of his in-laws,
Lee insisted on paying for this decorative
scheme himself. It is my guess that he had
seen similar interiors in Mexico and that their
brilliance appealed to his taste.

Lee’s love of nature was an important
part of his love for all beautiful things and
beautiful creatures. He was deeply distress-
ed by the destruction of the trees and grass
and planting during the Federal occupation.
His first charge to Edward Gordon in 1866
was to plant trees. When Gordon asked him
how he wished them placed, he replied, ‘‘Not
in rows; nature never plants in rows.’’ So
many of the great trees that shelter the cam-
pus today were planted at Lee’s order.

Another surprise in Gordon’s statement
is that Lee had a fierce temper. Gordon
qualifies this by saying that those who an-
noyed Lee in his office were usually allowed
to depart in peace, but that the next comer,
‘‘unless he was unusually wary, was apt to
catch the fire.”’

 

Someone who caught the fire the first
time around was a student called to the presi-
dent’s office for causing various kinds of
disturbances on the campus. The young man
was from Kentucky and was chewing tobac-
co. Lee took one look at him and told him
that chewing had always been particularly
obnoxious to him, and that he was to leave
the room, remove the quid, and come back
again. The boy left and returned, still chew-
ing. Lee quickly wrote out a note and hand-
ed it to the boy. ‘‘This will be posted on the
bulletin board in 10 minutes,’’ Lee said. The
note read that the young Kentuckian was
dismissed from Washington College ‘‘for
disrespect to the president.”’

The president made it his business to
know the names of all the students, to speak
with each of them in his office, and to in-
vite them to his house sometime during the
session. At the opposite end of the spectrum
from the Kentucky lad’s experience is that
reported by another student who found Lee
‘*so gentle, kind and almost motherly’”’ that
he thought he must have the wrong person.

The science of psychology today is help-
ing us to reevaluate the characteristics that
we have traditionally considered masculine
or feminine. The stereotypical male is war-
rior, protector, provider, leader who controls
his emotions and does not express his feel-

Lee’s office in the
basement of the Chapel

ings; his actions are prompted by his intellec-
tual conceptions. The female, on the other
hand, acts in harmony with her feelings and
emotions and expresses them freely. Her role
is to nurture, nourish, understand, adapt,
and respond. We are learning that all of us,
men and women, have within ourselves the
seed of each of these roles, and that we are
happier, more productive people when we
develop and use all facets of our marvelous-
ly varied human nature.

Robert Edward Lee, in my opinion, is the
archetype of the fully balanced human be-
ing we are seeking. A recently published
book by a Swiss writer, Pierre Illiez, is a
psychological biography of Lee. Unfor-
tunately, it has not yet been translated. II-
liez calls Lee a ‘‘Pacifist warrior with the soul
of a woman [who] maintained in the midst
of the tumult of combat a maternal ideal of
solicitude for the weak.’’

Illiez’s thesis is, briefly, that because of
the disappearance of his father when Robert
was only six and a half years old, Lee grew
up in an exclusive and close relationship with
his mother. Lacking a paternal model, he
identified with the maternal one and, in-
spired by her qualities, imitated them. Illiez
writes: ‘‘A vigorous and fearless boy of rare
endurance, trained to exert himself and lov-
ing to do it, was brought up as a girl. Fur-

W&L 13

 

 

thermore, the functions of a nurse, impos-
ed upon him by the illness of his mother,
placed him in a feminine role which reinforc-
ed this identification.’’ Illiez adds that
because of the failure of his father as his
hero, Robert substituted the ideal and remote
figure of George Washington.

This suggestion that Lee substituted
Washington for his own father as his role
model is particularly interesting. History has
not treated Lee’s father kindly, and I like to
stand up for him. Light Horse Harry idoliz-
ed Washington, and the general was Harry’s
lifelong patron and friend. Young Harry
Lee’s daring raids with his troop of light
horse won him a captaincy in the Revolu-
tionary Army when he was only 23, and his
military brilliance prompted Washington to
invite him to be his aide. Harry’s graceful
refusal of this promotion because he felt he
could be of greater service with his troop only
increased his commander’s admiration.
Washington saw to it that Harry Lee receiv-
ed one of the eight Congressional Medals
awarded during the Revolution. It was Harry
Lee who made the memorial address to Con-
gress when Washington died and who
characterized Washington for posterity as
**first in war, first in peace, and first in the
hearts of his countrymen.’’

It is difficult not to assume that in the
few years granted him of his father’s com-
pany, Robert Lee caught the contagion of
his admiration for Washington. It is equal-
ly difficult not to believe that a part of
Robert’s love for his wife, Mary Anne Ran-
dolph Custis, was the fact that her father was
Washington’s adopted grandson. That this
University unites these two names is perhaps
even more appropriate than the Trustees
knew when they linked them in 1871.

Berore we lay our final laurel wreath at
the feet of President Lee, let us look at him
and his family when they moved at last into
the large house that the college completed for
him in 1869. Being an engineer with an ar-
tist’s eye and a loving heart, he had taken
a great interest in its construction. He helped
design the enveloping porch, with easy ac-
cess for Mary’s wheelchair, and the adjoin-
ing sunny brick stable for Traveller. He was
particularly pleased with the water system;
two 5,000-gallon cisterns on the roof sup-
plied water piped through the house. He was
also gratified by the cooling and heating
system, especially after the latter ceased fill-
ing the house with smoke. There was a cow-
house, a greenhouse, a woodshed, and a
special small house for Mildred’s collection
of cats. —

In May 1869 the Lees moved in, and the
girls immediately filled their spacious new

14 W&L

home with friends and relatives who stayed
for long visits. Flood gives us this picture of
their daily life: Lee set the schedule that was
followed by all. Everyone, including guests,
was expected in the dining room for prayers
and breakfast at 7 a.m. When roses were in
bloom, the president would come in from the
garden with a rose for each lady.

He then went to the 15-minute service in
the new chapel that he had pushed to com-
pletion with such fervor and was in his of-
fice downstairs by 8 a.m. There he wrote,
planned, received visitors and students, and
oversaw every detail of college life until
2 p.m., when he went home to dinner. After
a nap, if there were no faculty or vestry
meetings, he rode Traveller out into the sur-
rounding countryside. This was his recrea-
tion and his greatest pleasure. His compan-
ionship with his horse and his profound love
of nature combined to make these hours a
life-sustaining force.

Supper was at 7:30, and at 8:15 visitors
were welcomed in a perpetual open house.
The girls entertained callers from the college,
from VMI, and from the town, in the parlor,
while Lee sat by the fire in the next room
reading to Mrs. Lee, as she knitted, from the
newspapers or the pocket Bible that he
always carried. At 10 p.m., if guests had not
had the tact to remove themselves, the presi-
dent went to the parlor and closed the
shutters.

In spite of this active social life, none of
Lee’s daughters married. He once wrote to
a friend: ‘‘I know it will require a tussle for
anyone to get my children from me, and
beyond that I do not wish to know.’’ He was
anxious for his sons to marry and lovingly
welcomed his daughters-in-law, but his own
girls were a different matter.

B, the time the Lees were established in
the new house the college had been complete-
ly transformed. Through his ‘‘quiet zeal and
noiseless energy,’’ as one of his associates
characterized him, buildings and grounds
had been repaired, a new chapel had been
constructed, the student body had grown to
10 times the number that was enrolled when
he came, and the faculty had been increased
more than fivefold. So innovative and ad-
vanced was the curriculum he planned that
it received national attention. The New York
Herald called Lee as great an educator as he
was a tactician in war and later proposed him
as Democratic candidate for president of the
United States.

The struggling little college was now a
university, with a law school, departments
of practical chemistry, mechanical and civil
engineering, and practical mechanics, in-
cluding architecture, building materials, and

thermodynamics. A department of modern
languages was established, and graduate pro-
grams were put in place. A business school
and a school of journalism—wholly new
ideas—were proposed, but they did not take
root until many years later. A course in
photography was planned. Money poured in
from all over the country.

The cold and stiff atmosphere of which
the Lee daughters and many students com-
plained yielded to the liberal humanity of the
president. ‘‘Make no needless rules,’’ he ad-
vised the faculty. ‘‘The discipline [of the col-
lege] has been placed upon that basis on
which it is believed experience has shown it
can be most safely trusted—upon the honour
and self-respect of the students themselves.’’
Lee believed in the freedom that honorable
behavior deserves; for the first time there
were dances on campus, and fraternities
began to appear. Underneath the grace that
he gave to the surface of life was the leader-
ship that every student understood. He had
guided them away from conflict and prej-
udice on innumerable occasions. He called
them to ‘‘engage in the duties of life with all
their heart and mind,’’ to equip themselves
to rebuild the shattered South. Again and
again he wrote and spoke his theme: ‘‘The
preservation of harmony and kind feelings
is of the utmost importance.”’

The University today is a monument to
Lee’s brilliant mind, to his adaptability, and
to his character. But his largest monument
is greater still. From this campus his stead-
fast insistence on restoring the Union averted
a tragedy that might have been even more
damaging and of far longer duration than
the Civil War. He was the one—the only—
man who could have turned the South
toward anarchy or led it toward peace. He
chose the latter because he possessed the
wisdom of the fully developed, balanced
human being that we all yearn to be. He had
the singular objectivity that such wholeness
brings; he was warm, kind, and utterly just.
He also had an unshakeable faith in the
goodness of God. Such a person is irresist-
ible. That is why he was, in my opinion, the
most beloved American of his time, and why
we love him still. His love of beauty encom-
passed a vision of human society both har-
monious and tranquil, led by men and
women who lived to the utmost of their
Capacities in human service.

That was the mark that he put on
Washington College, the mark that it bears
still as Washington and Lee. This man born
with a passion for life was able here on this
hill to spend his last five years in harmony
with his true nature, caring for the young and
for the nation, guiding them to the brighter
future that he intended for them.

Searching for Answers

 

Chip Schooley, ’70, on the Front Lines in the AIDS Battle

 

 

Dr. Robert T. Schooley, *70

By Jeffery G. Hanna

 

Bosron—or. Robert T. Schooley ad-
mits that he has become driven by the
disease—driven by his search for answers to
the puzzle, driven by his desire to help find
a way to stop the dying.

Maybe if he spent all his time working
in his laboratory where the disease can be
reduced to its lowest common denominator
under the microscope, maybe if he never had
to treat a patient who is suffering with this
disease, maybe then Schooley would not feel
the same sense of urgency.

But whenever he leaves his laboratory to
visit one of his patients, Schooley cannot
help but be struck anew by how devastating,
how dreadful, the disease really is.

‘‘The patients are young; they’re my
age,’’ says Schooley, who is 36. ‘‘Most of
them are just getting started in their profes-
sional careers. And all of a sudden, without
warning, they come down with a disease that
you know will kill them, most of them within
a year.

‘*It’s very hard to watch that happen. As
someone who sees patients and does basic
research, I think you see the urgency more
when you see people your own age dying of
this.”’

They are dying of AIDS, acquired im-
mune deficiency syndrome. And just as sure-
ly as the disease has already killed an
estimated 15,000 Americans in the past five
years, AIDS has had a profound effect on
Schooley’s life.

H.. it not been for the sudden,
mysterious outbreak of AIDS in 1981 Robert
T. (Chip) Schooley might not have stayed at
Massachusetts General Hospital, where he
conducts his research, and Harvard Medical
School, where he is a member of the teaching
faculty.

Sitting in the small office around the cor-
ner from his laboratory on the fourth floor
of sprawling Mass General, Schooley is
retracing the steps that have led him to this
place.

He had always assumed his career would
take a different path. A 1970 graduate of

W&L 15

 

 

 

16

 

W&L

Washington and Lee where he majored in
chemistry, Schooley had gone on to medical
school at Johns Hopkins. It was there, as a
third-year student, that he became interested
in infectious diseases.

From Hopkins Schooley went to the Na-
tional Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
There he worked in the infectious disease
program in the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Disease.

Somewhere between Hopkins and NIH,
Schooley began to define his interests more
narrowly. He began to concentrate on
virology and immunology. Specifically he
started conducting research into the virus
that causes infectious mononucleosis—
Epstein-Barr virus.

‘Tl was looking at the way the virus af-
fects the immune response and at the way the
immune response tries to deal with the
virus,’’ Schooley explains.

When he finished the program at NIH,
he was certified to practice in infectious
diseases. ‘‘But the NIH is such a specialized
place that I really had seen very little bread-
and-butter infectious disease of the kind that
you would see in a general hospital setting,”’
says Schooley.

So it was that in 1979 he came to Boston
for a two-year clinical fellowship at Harvard
and Mass General. When he arrived here, he
expected to stay for no more than two years,
after which he would move on to a medical
school somewhere and pursue his research
while teaching.

‘“When I got up here to Boston there was
another doctor, Martin Hirsch, who was
then doing the same thing that I had been
doing for the last several years, only he had
been working with a different virus—
cytomegalovirus, which is another member
of the herpes group virus family,’’ Schooley
explains. ‘‘Cytomegalovirus also can cause
mononucleosis and has a lot of the same ef-
fects on the immune response that Epstein-
Barr virus has.’’

Once his clinical fellowship ended,
Schooley wrote a grant request to the NIH.
It was funded. So he decided to stay in
Boston a while longer.

**T stayed here out of inertia because I lik-
ed it. I enjoyed the people I was working
with. I enjoyed Boston,’’ says Schooley, who
lives in suburban Hingham with his wife,
Pam, their daughters, Kim, 12, and Beth, 9,
and two guinea pigs that came from the NIH
laboratories. ‘‘While it’s true that most peo-
ple don’t stay here for longer than a year or
two, there was no real reason for me to
leave.”’

Then came the summer of 1981 when
everything changed.

The first report came from Los Angeles.

As Schooley recollects, it was ‘‘a short blurb
about a group of five men who died in Los
Angeles of pneumocystis, which was a
parasite that we didn’t see in the people
whose immune systems worked. These were
five men who didn’t have any reason to have
this disease. They had previously been
healthy and just died very quickly of
pneumocystis pneumonia.”’

To those who, like Schooley, work in in-
fectious diseases, the report was puzzling.

Six weeks later the puzzle grew when the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in
Atlanta reported that a group of 26 more
men, this time in New York and San Fran-
cisco, were suffering from Kaposi’s sarcoma,
an uncommon, slow-growing tumor that was
rarely seen unless there was also some sort
of deficiency in the immune system.

Alarms began going off.

‘*These reports were interesting to Mar-
ty (Hirsch) and me because we had been
working with viruses that affected the im-
mune system—cytomegalovirus and Epstein-
Barr virus. Cytomegalovirus, in particular,
had been associated with Kaposi’s sarcoma
in the past, and we were very interested in
whether one of the viruses we were working
on might be playing a role in this new syn-
drome. We began to think about what we
might do to sort it out.”’

The disease got a name fairly quickly: ac-
quired immune deficiency syndrome. Just as
quickly, that rather imposing name was
reduced to the now-familiar acronym AIDS.

‘‘T think the CDC was very smart in
realizing the disease was not pneumocystis
or Kaposi’s sarcoma, but the disease was the
immune deficiency,’’ says Schooley.

‘*All people start with a normal immune
system; they acquire an immune deficiency.
And being a syndrome it can appear in a
number of different ways. It’s a good name
for what the disease really is. It focuses on
the fact that the problem is the immune
system and not these supervening infections
and tumors.

‘You end up getting an infection or a
tumor that normally we used to see only in
people who had kidney transplants or liver
transplants or had lymphoma, so you don’t
recognize the disease clinically by the im-
mune deficiency. You recognize it by one of
these other infections or tumors, which
makes it a very challenging disease to
recognize because it can appear in a lot of
different ways.”’

About six months after the first cases
were discovered in Los Angeles, Schooley
and Hirsch wrote a grant proposal to get
funds from the American Cancer Society to
pursue research on Kaposi’s sarcoma, em-
phasizing the two viruses that they had

 

previously been working on.

‘‘On the first grant proposal, the ACS
said, ‘Gee, that’s a great idea, but it’s too
bad you’re not going to see any AIDS in
Boston. It’s only a disease that is being seen
in New York and Los Angeles.’ ”’

But six months later, as it became in-
creasingly apparent that this disease was
hardly limited by geography, the NIH
became interested in AIDS research.
Schooley and Hirsch resurrected their pro-
posal and filed it with the NIH.

They received the grant and set to work.
Their initial project involved recruiting 100
men who either had AIDS or were at risk for
AIDS. At that point the primary risk group
consisted of homosexual men and _ in-
travenous drug users. Schooley and Hirsch
began by following these men over a three-
year period. Eventually their grant was ex-
tended for five more years.

‘“What we wanted to do was look at these
people sequentially to try to see what changes
were happening over time to their immune
system. That helped us understand in a more
precise way the sequence of events that leads
to the development of AIDS,’’ he explains.

The focus of their study, says Schooley,
has been to learn more about the mechanisms
by which the host cell deals with the virus.

‘‘In most viral illnesses, one of the most
important things that determines whether
someone gets sick or gets well is how the
host’s cells respond to the virus. What I’ve
been working on is learning about that basic
sort of interaction in patients who are in-
fected with the virus.’’

Most of that study involves the T-cells,
which effectively coordinate the immune
system.

‘‘The T-cells are one of the most impor-
tant aspects of being able to keep viruses in
control. Antibodies are important too, but
they’re more important from the standpoint
of preventing reinfection,’’ Schooley ex-
plains. ‘“T-cells are very important during the
course of an infection to determine how sick
someone gets. And T-cells are the target for
the AIDS virus.

‘‘That poses a very interesting problem,
having a virus that is going after the very cells
that should be going after the virus. A lot
of the work that I’ve been doing has been
related to trying to sort out what tips the
balance one way or the other.

‘“We know that many, many more peo-
ple, at least over the short term, get infected
than get sick. We think there are between one
and two million people in the U.S. now who
have been infected with this virus. And we
have only about 30,000 cases of AIDS, so
we’re seeing the tip of the iceberg. We need
to learn what it is about those who are re-

maining healthy, at least so far, so that we
can try to prevent them from getting sick,
too.’’

Pssence If you plan to spend your life
puzzling over the interaction of the AIDS
virus with T-cells or other equally complex
questions, you need to have lots of patience,
says Schooley.

‘“You don’t have to be an Einstein,’’ he
insists. ‘“You do have to have patience, and
you do have to know what to follow up on.

‘“Whenever you do an experiment, rather
than answering the question you raised you
are probably going to raise six or seven
others. The most important thing is to know
which two or three of those six or seven
others are the most important to follow up
and which are important to leave alone and
let somebody else follow. You have to be
willing to plug away over time and see things
gradually move, and not get discouraged
when it looks like nothing is going to
happen.’’

There were quite a few moments early in
his undergraduate career at Washington and
Lee when Schooley was discouraged. And,
he confesses, others were discouraged, too,
especially his parents.

‘‘T had floundered around my freshman
year and at mid-semester of my sophomore
year I had an A, a B, a D, and two Fs,”’ he
says. ‘‘My parents went so far as to suggest
that I transfer to VMI. But Dr. (Keith) Shill-
ington stepped in and helped me refocus
things.”’ |

One of the keys to refocusing Schooley
was getting him involved in research. In fact,
it was primarily as a result of his experience
in the R.E. Lee Research Program that
Schooley has wound up splitting his time be-
tween research and clinical care.

‘“‘The research program that Dr. Shill-
ington was running in chemistry involved try-
ing to make prostaglandins from scratch.
These are a group of compounds that are
very important mediators of inflammation.
They had just been discovered when I was
at W&L and are very tricky to work with
biochemically. There were a lot of high-
powered groups elsewhere who were trying
to learn how to synthesize them. We were not
able to accomplish that in three hours a week
on Monday afternoons, but we learned a lot
working on it.”’

That, adds Schooley, was the beauty of
his Washington and Lee background. ‘‘At
W&L, you don’t get involved in a very, very
active field with 47 people in a given
laboratory,’’ says Schooley. ‘‘On the other
hand, that’s not really what you want when
you’re just starting out in research. Rather
than washing glassware and helping people

pick up around the lab as most
undergraduates might do, at W&L you can
actually sit down, put your hands on what
you’re doing, plan experiments, and learn
how it’s done.”’

Even before he began spending his Mon-
day afternoons in the chemistry laboratory
under Shillington’s watchful eye, Schooley
had demonstrated a bent toward working
such problems to their logical conclusion.
That, he says, is what led him to focus on
infectious diseases in the first place.

‘‘The challenging thing about infectious
disease is that rather than dealing with one
separate organ system, like cardiology, for
example, you wind up seeing problems with
every organ system. You might see a patient
with a heart infection one minute and the
next minute you’re seeing somebody with an
infection of the foot. So it’s a really broad-
ly based subspecialty.”’

There was another element that appeal-
ed to Schooley. It involved the odds; they
used to be in his favor. That, too, was before
AIDS.

‘“‘Until AIDS came along, there was a
very high likelihood that I could do
something for the patients, put them back
on their feet and get them home,’’ says
Schooley. ‘‘A lot of other medical
subspecialties are just kind of patching a
worn-out dike. You can go to digitalis to
make the heart work better for a little while,
but the nice thing about infectious diseases
is that many people are young, you do
something, they get better and go home. So
that was fun.’’

But that was before AIDS.

Wien AIDS came along, the emotions
changed dramatically. A diagnosis of AIDS
is essentially a death sentence. Schooley has
had to break that awful news to many pa-
tients in the past few years. It is something
he has never gotten accustomed to doing.

‘‘For someone who has been working in
infectious disease for a while, doing things
for people and watching them get better, it’s
a very different sort of a disease,’’ he says.
‘‘This makes infectious disease much more
like oncology than infectious disease. So that
part is difficult.’’

As a medical student at Hopkins,
Schooley remembers seeing one of the
pediatric oncology staff members, a doctor
named Herb Kaiser, come to the hospital in
the middle of the night to see an 11-year-old
patient who was dying.

‘<I said to Herb, ‘I don’t see how you can
do this year after year, watching these kids
die.’

‘‘And he told me, ‘I’m not the reason
they’re sick. If I weren’t here, who’d take

W&L 17

 

 

 

18

 

W&L

care of them? I care about them, but I can’t
blame myself for what happens to them.’ ”’

So even though you cannot allow
yourself to get so depressed about the situa-
tion that you cannot function, it is
nonetheless difficult to face such cases day
in and day out. And, Schooley suggests, it
will become more and more difficult in the
next several years as AIDS spreads
throughout the population. Recent projec-
tions by the Public Health Service are that,
by the end of 1991, there will be 270,000
cases of AIDS and 179,000 deaths. While the
disease was, in its earliest stages, limited
almost exclusively to homosexual men and
intravenous drug users, that is beginning to
change. The latest Public Health Service
estimates indicate that the number of AIDS
cases in men and women acquired through
heterosexual contact will increase from 1,100
in 1986 to almost 7,000 in 1991.

**So far the people who have been get-
ting it most frequently are people who have
been worried about it for a long time. They
read about it. They know about the prog-
nosis. They know about the complications.
So it has not been something where you say,
‘Let me tell you what AIDS is,’ ”’ says
Schooley.

*“On the other hand, on a very individual
level it affects everybody in a different way.
For some people it triggers problems like,
well, ‘My family didn’t know what my
lifestyle was and now I’ve got to tell them.’
For other people, they’ve been worried about
this for so long that it’s almost a relief in
some sense. So the range of emotions is all
the way in between.”’

The important thing in treating AIDS pa-
tients, Schooley says, is to convey to them
that you are going to help them deal with
whatever problems ensue.

“*“Too, we have to make certain that these
patients know that many people do well for
a very long period of time and accomplish
a lot of things that are very important to
them and to many others.’’

Though the prognosis has not changed,
there have been some important advances in
recent months. Schooley and Hirsch con-
ducted one of 12 studies nationwide on the
drug azidothymidine, or AZT. They had
enrolled 20 patients in the study, all of whom
were suffering from either AIDS or AIDS-
related complex. About half of the patients
took daily dosages of AZT; the others took
a placebo in a capsule that looked very much
like the AZT.

*‘In some ways this was unprecedented
in drug studies,’’ says Schooley, whose work
in the AZT study has been the subject of a
series of stories in the Los Angeles Times.
**While we had only 20 patients, there were

280 patients nationwide. Before the study
started, the drug had been given to no more
than 20 or 30 people. To go from that few
to a large multi-center controlled trial is un-
precedented. You usually go from 20 peo-
ple to 50 people and eventually to a big
study. But the urgency was such that we
didn’t have time to do that.”’

The test was halted prematurely in mid-
September when it became clear that those
patients receiving AZT were doing better
than those receiving the placebo. At the end
of the four months, there were 16 deaths in
the placebo group compared with only one
in the AZT group.

**I was very surprised,’’ says Schooley.
**T thought that at the end of the study we
would see some beneficial effects in the
laboratory values and maybe slightly fewer
deaths in the treated group than the control
group. But I was really very pleasantly sur-
prised to see this big a difference in so short
a period of time.’’

Still, it represents but one step in the pro-
cess, albeit a very positive step.

‘*There are still people in the study who
got the drug who had new bouts of
pneumocystis and developed Kaposi’s sar-
coma. And nobody who got the drug got rid
of the virus; it just keeps the virus from
growing,’’ says Schooley. ‘‘The other prob-
lem is that we don’t know whether the drug
is going to have long-term negative side
effects.’

Perhaps the most discouraging news of
all was that there has been such difficulty in
producing the drug. And the manufacturing
costs, notes Schooley, are now about $8,000
per patient per year. So the news, good
though it most surely was, had its negative
side.

‘‘We finally have some things we can
work with, which is good,”’ he says. ‘‘I think
all of us thought we had been chipping away
for a long time. This is not a breakthrough,
but it is a big break rather than just a chip.”’

Haray a day goes by now that there is
not a newspaper story or a television special
about AIDS. It has moved away from a
medical oddity that affected only a certain
portion of the population to a fearsome killer
that could strike anyone.

Chip Schooley has seen the fear
firsthand. He has seen hostility, too. One of
his patients, a 31-year-old telephone repair-
man named Paul Cronan, was fired from his
job with the New England Telephone Co.
when it was discovered that he had AIDS.

It was with Schooley’s encouragement
that Cronan sued the telephone company and
won his job back. But the day after Cronan
reported back to work on Oct. 22 of this

 

year, 29 of his co-workers walked off their
jobs, citing their concern over working with
an AIDS victim.

That night, while most Bostonians were
fretting only about the fate of their beloved
Red Sox in the fifth game of the World
Series, Schooley met with the co-workers and
their families at a suburban Boston motel.
He gave them a 30-minute presentation on
AIDS. He told them that Cronan’s presence
in their midst was not a threat to their health.
He told them that the only way they could
be infected by AIDS was through intimate
sexual contact, use of a contaminated
hypodermic needle, or being born of a
mother who had AIDS. Patiently, he
answered their questions, which ranged from
the obvious to the not-so-obvious (“‘If a
snake bites an AIDS patient and then bites
me, can I get the disease?’’).

‘‘There was a great deal of hostility in
that room when we started. And a great deal
of fear,’’ says Schooley. ‘‘I can understand
that to a degree. I mean, I get anxious about
this. That’s only human. You know what the
disease is; you know what it can do.

‘‘But you must understand the difference
between the disease and the mode of
transmission of the virus that causes the
disease.’’

And, Schooley says emphatically, every
scientific study confirms that this is a virus
that cannot be transmitted through casual
contact. ‘‘We know that this virus is
transmitted by sexual contact and by blood-
borne contamination, and that’s it,’’ says
Schooley. ‘‘There is no reason to make it into
anything more exotic or wild than that.

‘‘This is not a highly contagious infec-
tion,’’ Schooley adds. ‘‘I think many peo-
ple don’t grasp the difference between the
presence of an infectious agent and the
degree to which that agent is contagious. We
know, for instance, that chicken pox is very
contagious. But HIV (human immunodefi-
ciency virus), the virus that causes AIDS, is
not. All you really want to do is to try to do
those things that prevent transmission by the
route that you know it is transmitted.

‘All of us are infected with any number
of given pathogens. If you said, ‘I want to
be away from anybody who is infected with
anything,’ you’d have to be sitting in a room
by yourself.’’

But the fear remains. It is a very real fear,
and it is pervasive. One of Schooley’s pa-
tients was a woman who had contracted the
disease from a blood transfusion before it
became common practice to screen blood for
the AIDS virus. ‘‘This woman went home
to Florida. She is in her mid-60s and dying
of the disease. Her priest was afraid to come
visit her because he didn’t want to transmit

the virus to others in the parish,’’ says
Schooley. ‘‘This sort of stigmatization
doesn’t do any good for anybody.”’

When he visited with the telephone
workers, Schooley was asked the obvious
question: ‘‘Is there no way, absolutely no
possible way, that I can get this virus if a per-
son with AIDS comes back to work in this
building?”’

Schooley responded by suggesting that
many of the people had driven to the meeting
without wearing their seatbelts; some of them
might have been smoking a cigarette on the
way. Those, he told them, are risky ventures.

“The risk that this guy is going to give
these people AIDS is so low that you can’t
measure it,’’ says Schooley. “Tf they start
getting rid of every risk that low, they’ll stay
home under their beds. That’s just the way
life is. But people are much more frighten-
ed about things that are new to them and
things that they think they cannot see and
control.

‘‘From the standpoint of the way people
act it’s going to take a longer time for peo-
ple to feel comfortable with this disease. We
learn from firsthand experience, and you
need to point out to people that they’ve
already had firsthand experience of being in
contact with people with this disease because
every time you walk out of your house one
in 200 people has the AIDS virus. You sit
down and eat at a restaurant, and chances
are good that somebody at the next table or
serving you dinner has the virus and is
unaware of it. So you’ve already got
firsthand experience with it, and people don’t
understand that yet.”’

The educational efforts may take time.
And in some cases, Schooley admits, a little
knowledge can be a dangerous thing. At one
stage in the scientists’ efforts to battle AIDS
it was widely reported that the virus had been
isolated in the saliva and the tears of patients.

‘‘Suddenly people began to worry that
the virus could be transmitted in this way,’’
says Schooley. ‘‘That is simply not the case.
You can, for instance, isolate the rabies virus
from tears, but you don’t get rabies because
a dog cries on you; you get it because a dog
bites you. The key is the way the virus is
transmitted. We know how AIDS is
transmitted. We are trying to make certain
everybody knows and understands.”’

Schooley does believe that the educa-
tional efforts are having a positive effect. “‘If
you ask people more specific facts like what
causes this disease, people give you more cor-
rect answers all the time. But the way they
behave doesn’t necessarily change. The ap-
plication of the information is the tough
part,’’ he says.

‘*If we say I’m afraid of this disease and

I don’t like the people who get this disease
and it’s God’s wrath and all the stuff that
goes with that, then it is going to take longer
for us to get the upper hand. We’re going
to give this virus an even better start at our
population.”’

A, a clinical researcher, Chip Schooley
approaches AIDS on two levels. The clini-
cian in him sees the dying, agonizes over his
inability to provide a cure, and does his ut-
most to give the patients the best possible
care. The researcher in him relishes the op-
portunity to wrestle with the problems the
disease poses.

‘‘It is very exciting scientifically,’’ says
Schooley. ‘‘One of the things that keeps you
consumed and keeps you going is the
knowledge that this work is going to have a
lot of spin-offs with a lot to say about other
diseases that have nothing directly to do with
AIDS.

‘‘We are going to learn a lot about virus-
host interactions. We’ve already seen some
new manifestations of viruses we’ve known
about for a long time that are unmasked by
HIV. We may well be able to find agents that
cause other things that in the past have been
very unusual. Hodgkins’ disease, for exam-
ple, is turning up more frequently in patients
with this virus than in the general popula-
tion, and it’s a different kind of Hodgkins’
disease because of the way it behaves. So I
think there are a lot of things we can learn
from this if we put our minds to it and do
it.”

Still, Schooley will not lose sight of the
primary goal: finding a way to end the dying.

“‘I’d love to be able to put a big red check
mark on AIDS and move on to something
else,’’ he says.

‘‘I think that AIDS, just like Legion-
naires’ disease and toxic shock syndrome,
showed us that there are a lot of things
around us that we just didn’t know about.
And there are going to be more things in the
future. I don’t think there is any reason to
believe that once this is done, there are not
going to be other things to do.”’

First, there is this tragic business to
finish. The results of the AZT study are an
important step. Schooley says he always tries
to keep a ray of hope going with his patients
and suggests that the ray is a lot brighter
now.

Still, it is only one ray. It may still be
some time before the holiday wishes of
Schooley’s two daughters come true. Asked
by their teachers to write down what they
wished for Christmas and New Year’s,
respectively, 12-year-old Kim and 9-year-old
Beth both included prominently on their lists
‘‘a cure for AIDS.”’

W&L 19

ASIC SEITO LE

 

SS eewueeee

>"

 

os

   

The Alumni Collegians pose on the equator. Seated from left, Linda
Hammock, Lois Marks, Louise Latture, Betty Munger, Gillie Camp-
bell; second row from left, Paul Hammock, Leslie Marks, David Har-
cus, *84, Bill Latture, ’49, David Parker, Bob Munger, ’35, Bob Root,
42; third row from left, Cleve Hickman and Alton Evans.

   

Cleve Hickman in conversation with one of the ‘‘lazy and comical’’
sea lions

20 W&L

   

Washboards

 

    
 

3%
SS. =

and
Tortoises

 

  

Touring the Galapagos Islands
With W&L’s Alumni College

 

By Betty Munger
Photographs by Cleveland P. Hickman Jr.

S. enores y senoras, son las siete y quarto y en quince minutos .. .

*‘Ladies and gentlemen, it is now 7:45 and in 15 minutes we
will be disembarking for Floreana Island. It will be a wet landing
and the group order will be Albatrosses, Boobies, Cormorants,
and Dolphins last.”’

We 12 members of Washington and Lee’s Alumni College
group, led by our fine caretakers, Professors Cleve Hickman and
David Parker, were Albatrosses. So down the wobbly ladders on
the side of the cruise ship Santa Cruz we went!

The bobbing, tossing panga (dinghy) below seemed an uncer-
tain goal, but the strong ‘‘Galapagos grip’’ of the guides got

 

Betty Munger managed the W&L Bookstore for 16 years before she
retired in 1983 and embarked on her second career as a freelance adven-
turer. She and her husband, Robert S. Munger, ’35, were among those
participating in last summer’s Alumni College.

 

 

 

 

us aboard to be ferried to the island. We were
an energetic bunch, ranging in age from 24
to 75, sharing the excitement and amazement
of the Galapagos Islands.

Located 600 miles west of the coast of
Ecuador, the volcanic archipelago is a ‘“‘lit-
tle world within itself,’’ to quote Charles
Darwin who visited the islands in 1835. The
13 larger and six smaller volcanic islands
have provided an isolated environment for
a fascinating variety of unique animals and
flora. In some cases, the individual islands
present a striking diversity of species.

Our ship, the Santa Cruz, provided an
elegant means of exploring the Galapagos
Islands. She carried 90 passengers who hail-
ed from a variety of countries. A 48-member
crew provided excellent food and marvelous
service. We also enjoyed the patience and ex-
pertise of naturalist guides, trained by the
Charles Darwin Research Station. Each mor-
ning and afternoon for seven and a half days
we visited a different island (eventually we
became almost blase about clamoring down
that ladder to disembark) and each island of-
fered unusual and intriguing sights.

The Ecuador National Park Service pro-
tects the islands so carefully and controls
visitors so adroitly that the animals and birds
are completely unconcerned about the pres-
ence of people on the paths and rocks near-
by. In fact, they almost entirely ignored us.

From a couple of feet away we watched
the frigate birds puff up their flaming red
courtship pouches. Albatrosses (real ones in
this case) performed their spectacular mating
dance almost by special appointment. We
were able to make official acquaintance with
several of the famous Galapagos tortoises
that are kept at the Charles Darwin Research
Station for study and for sociability with
visitors. The giant creatures, which weigh as
much as 600 pounds and are up to five feet
in length, even raised their wrinkled heads
to be patted.

Each evening after dinner the guides
would brief us on what the next day would
bring. The guide assigned to the Albatross
group, Paul, was about 24 years old with a
graduate degree in biology. A native of
Belgium who spoke four languages well, he
was extremely well informed about the won-
drously odd biology of the islands. He
answered our endless questions with patience
and real information. He even got the cap-
tain to turn off the cruise lights on the ship
one night so that we could see both the
Southern Cross and the Big Dipper in one
brilliant sky.

Meanwhile, our resident professors were
filling in the blanks in a variety of ways, in-
cluding lending assistance in some very prac-
tical matters.

 

bos

W&L’s ‘‘Albatrosses’’ aboard the panga after disembarking from the Santa Cruz

oe i : #

Louise and Bill Latture examine a marine iguana on the beach in the Galapagos Islands.

Cleve Hickman, a professor of biology
at W&L, was able to call upon his ex-
periences in leading Washington and Lee
undergraduates on this very tour. Cleve has
taken six groups of undergraduates to the
Galapagos during the University’s spring
term. He provided us with valuable insights
throughout the trip.

David Parker is an assistant professor of
history whose specialty is Latin America.
Born in Santiago, Chile, David spent a year

studying in Brazil on a Fulbright. He speaks
Spanish fluently. That came in handy
throughout the trip, particularly when he
helped one of our number locate a lost piece
of luggage.

he days were fresh and breezy and not
at all hot, even though we were smack-dab
on the equator. Almost everywhere we went
on the islands we were greeted by the lazy
and comical sea lions and the marine iguanas

W&L 21

 

recharging their heat cells in the sun.
Sometimes the iguanas were sO numerous
that we had to be careful not to step on them.

We got to know the personable red-
footed boobies and the blue-footed boobies
plunge-diving for their food. We also watch-
ed brown noddy terns perched on the heads
of pelicans, ready to snatch any lost morsels
of food. We watched a devoted flightless cor-
morant bringing a present of fresh seaweed
to his nesting mate. There seemed an infinite
variety of life on these harsh and rocky
islands.

We left the ship to go on to the island
of Santa Cruz, where Cleve Hickman prom-
ised us a horseback ride up into the highlands
to see the giant tortoises in their natural
habitat. And ride we did! We sat on wooden
saddles atop lazy horses and rode through
a heavy drizzle. I for one have seldom been
as proud of myself! Searching through the
dripping underbrush and mucky ground, we
needed to keep a sharp eye out for the tor-
toises. (Look, there’s a vermillion flycatch-
er!) The best way to locate one of the giants,
I discovered, was to stumble over it.

Back at the attractive Galapagos Hotel
in Puerto Ayora the whole Alumni College
group turned to the washtubs and scrub
boards to get our ‘‘riding clothes’’ clean and
dry again.

We spent the last four days of our trip
in the beautiful city of Quito, the capital of
Ecuador, nearly two miles high in the Andes.
Ecuador itself turned out to be a beautiful
and interesting country. Most of us knew
very little about it. The low tropical moss
forest at Tinalandia added another
remarkable discovery to our wide range of
experiences on the trip.

We perched on the equator at more than
10,000 feet elevation along the spine of the
Andes. We found Indian villages where the
inhabitants are living the lives their ancestors
lived hundreds of years ago, in small, dark
houses with guinea pigs (probably soon to
be our evening meal) running around on the
floor. There were beautifully subtle weaving,
carving, and dough sculpture evident in all
the villages.

Our Ecuadorean guide gave us a com-
prehensive picture of this complex society,
which, alas, we had a chance only to glimpse.

The scenery of Ecuador is some of the
most spectacular in the world—and some of
the least known. The whole country was a
revelation to someone like me whose eyes
had always been turned in Europe’s direc-
tion. Ecuador is a place to which I would
happily return—preferably with the
knowledge, concern, and good humor of our
informed companions, W&L’s Cleve
Hickman and David Parker.

22 W&L

 

 

 

Lois Marks, in front, and Betty Munger lead the way on horseback through the ‘‘Tortoise
Reserve. ’”’

ee ve

One of the Alumni College’s guides, Oswaldo Munoz, poses with a giant leaf of the elephant ear
plant at Tinalandia.

 

The W&L Gazette

 

Four Members Elected to Board of Trustees

 

F... new members were elected and two
members retired from Washington and Lee’s
Board of Trustees during its annual fall
meeting held this year in Richmond.

The new members are: Dr. William M.
Gottwald, ’70, of Richmond; Richard D.
Haynes, ’48L, of Dallas; Patricia Webb Leg-
gett of Lynchburg; Vaughan Inge Mor-
rissette of Mobile, Ala.

Retiring from the Board were Rev.
Christoph Keller Jr., ’39, of Alexandria, La.,
and Calvert Thomas, ’38, of Hartford,
Conn.

The changes on the Board will become
effective on Jan. 1, 1987.

Gottwald is general manager of the
Richmond-based Elk Horn Coal Corp., an
Ethyl Corp. subsidiary. He joined Ethyl in
1981 in the company’s human resources
department. After serving on the staff of
Ethyl’s budget department, he was named
marketing manager of Elk Horn in February
1982. He was promoted to his current posi-
tion in May 1984.

A native of Richmond, Gottwald receiv-
ed the B.S. degree from Washington and Lee
and earned the M.B.A. from the University
of Richmond and the M.D. from Tulane
University. He is a member of the American
Academy of Dermatology, the Richmond
Academy of Medicine, and the Medical
Society of Virginia. He is also a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa and is a trustee of The
Medical College of Virginia Foundation.

Gottwald and his wife, Constance Ingrid
Stevenson Gottwald, have four children.

Haynes is a senior partner in the Dallas
law firm of Haynes and Boone. He received
his undergraduate degree from the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma in 1953 and then earned
his law degree from Washington and Lee in
1958. He practiced with an Oklahoma City
law firm, was counsel to the Dallas-based
Electro-Science Investors Inc., and was an
attorney with the law offices of Ethan B.
Stroud of Dallas prior to founding Haynes
and Boone in 1964.

Haynes and Boone is a 110-lawyer firm,
which specializes in corporate and securities
law, banking law, real estate law, corporate

   

 

Gottwald

= i
Morrissette

Leggett

tax, international law, labor law, and
business litigation. Haynes has been a lec-
turer at Southern Methodist University’s
School of Law. He is a member of the
American, Oklahoma, and Texas bar
associations and has held leadership posi-
tions on committees of those associations.
He has been elected to both the Order of
the Coif and Omicron Delta Kappa at W&L
and has been president of the Law School
Council and vice president of the Alumni
Association. He is active in numerous com-
munity affairs in Dallas, including the St.
Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church,
the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, and the Ci-
ty of Dallas Mayor’s Task Force on Housing.
Haynes and his wife, Norine Castle
Haynes, are the parents of two daughters.
Mrs. Leggett is associated with Douglas
Associates, a Charlottesville-based landscape
architecture firm that does commercial,
residential, site improvement, and downtown
revitalization work throughout Virginia. A
1953 graduate of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, she did graduate work in
landscape architecture from the University
of Virginia. |
She is on the boards of the Lynchburg
Symphony, the Garden Club of Virginia, and
the Lynchburg Beautiful Committee. She

 

   

was previously on the board of the Fine Arts
Center in Lynchburg.

Mrs. Leggett and her husband, W&L
Trustee Emeritus H. Gordon Leggett Jr.,
54, are the parents of four children.

Mrs. Morrissette is a 1954 graduate of
Sweet Briar and has been active in numerous
organizations, both local and national. She
is chairman of the board of trustees of the
Mobile Infirmary Medical Center, a 700-bed
hospital, and is a member of the business
school advisory board of the University of
South Alabama. She has served on the ex-
ecutive board of Sweet Briar’s alumnae
association.

She is on the boards of the National Con-
gress of Hospital Governing Boards. She
serves as vice regent for Alabama on the
Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association of the
Union. She also serves on other boards in the
Mobile community.

Mrs. Morrissette and her husband, H.
Taylor Morrissette, are the parents of four
children. One of their children, Clifton, is
a 1983 W&L graduate.

The two retiring members of the Board
were recognized at a dinner held in conjunc-
tion with the fall meeting in Richmond.

Keller was named a Trustee in 1981, the
same year that he retired as Bishop of the
Episcopal Diocese of Arkansas. He had been
executive vice president of Murphy Oil Co.
before resigning from that post in 1955 to
enter the ministry. He studied at General
Theological Seminary in New York and the
Graduate School of the University of the
South and was ordained in 1957. He served
parishes in Arkansas and Mississippi and was
named Bishop of Arkansas in 1970. Keller
received an honorary degree from W&L in
1973.

Thomas was elected to the Board in 1975
after being nominated for membership by
vote of the University’s alumni. In addition
to the B.S. degree from W&L, he has a law
degree from the University of Maryland. He
served previously as assistant general counsel
of General Motors Corp. and retired from
that position in 1978 to become president of
Thomas Cadillac in Hartford.

W&L 23

 

 

 

Elrod, Hotchkiss promoted
to vice presidents

Washington and Lee has promoted two
senior administrators to vice presidential
posts.

John W. Elrod has been named vice
president for academic affairs and dean of
the College (of arts and sciences).

Farris P. Hotchkiss has been named vice
president for University relations and
secretary of the University.

The promotions, which are effective Jan.
1, 1987, were approved by the University’s
Board of Trustees at its annual fall meeting
held in Richmond in October.

‘‘I am pleased to be able to announce
these promotions, both of which are in
recognition of special merit and high com-
petence,’’ said Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson.

    

Hotchkiss

Elrod

Elrod, 46, was named dean of the Col-
lege at Washington and Lee in 1984. He
came to W&L from Iowa State University
where he was chairman of the department
of philosophy.

A native of Griffin, Ga., Elrod received
his bachelor’s degree from Presbyterian Col-
lege and earned both his master’s and Ph.D.
degrees in the philosophy of religion from
Columbia University. He is recognized as an
authority on Danish theologian Soren
Kierkegaard.

Hotchkiss, 49, has been director of
University relations and development at
Washington and Lee since 1982. He has been
a member of the administrative staff at the
University since 1966 and has served in
numerous capacities, including assistant dean
of students, director of student financial aid,
and, since 1968, director of development.

A 1958 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Hotchkiss is a native of Richmond. Prior to
returning to his alma mater, he had been
sales vice president of Foote & Davis, an
Atlanta-based printing, publishing, and book
manufacturing firm. He _ directed
Washington and Lee’s 10-year development
campaign that was successfully completed in
1981 with a total of $67 million—$5 million
above the goal.

Hotchkiss has been active in numerous
community affairs, serving most recently as

24 W&L

co-chairman of the successful campaign to
bring the Rockbridge area a new home for
its regional library.

As secretary of the University, Hotchkiss
will succeed James W. Whitehead, who is
stepping down from that post in order to
devote his full attention to direction of the
Reeves Center for Research and Exhibition
of Porcelain and Paintings and to other
special projects.

Whitehead to step down
as secretary of the University

James W. Whitehead, who has served as
secretary of Washington and Lee since 1968,
will step down from that post on Jan. 1,
1987, to devote his full attention to directing
the Reeves Center for Research and Exhibi-
tion of Porcelain and Paintings and to other
special projects.

A native of Columbus, Ga., Whitehead
first joined the administration at Washington
and Lee in 1958 as director of University
relations and administrative assistant to the
president.

He became treasurer of the University in
1966 and was named secretary two years
later. In 1980 Whitehead stepped down as
treasurer but remained in his role as
secretary. He has been director of the Reeves
Center since its establishment in 1982.

‘‘Everyone connected with Washington
and Lee is deeply indebted to Jim Whitehead
for his wonderful stewardship in his role as
secretary of the University for the past 18
years,’’ said Washington and Lee President
John D. Wilson. ‘‘Jim Whitehead’s tireless
efforts on so many different fronts have
resulted in major advances for the Universi-
ive

Whitehead received his bachelor’s degree
from the University of Tampa, where he was
public relations director for five years. Prior
to coming to Washington and Lee he served
as finance director for the National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews and as ex-
ecutive director of the Empire State Foun-
dation of Independent Liberal Arts Colleges.

Among his many accomplishments at
Washington and Lee, Whitehead has been
the guiding force behind the establishment
of both the Reeves Center, which houses the
Reeves Collection of Chinese export
porcelain, and more recently the Stewart and
Joella Morris House, a guest house and
seminar/reception center. Both the Reeves
Center and the Morris House are located in
front campus antebellum houses that have
been restored.

Whitehead is active nationally in
decorative arts organizations, serving on the
board of governors of the Decorative Arts

Trust, the board of directors of the American
Ceramic Circle, the advisory committee of
the National Trust for Historic Preservation,
and the advisory board of Mount Vernon,
the home of George Washington. He has
written numerous articles and has lectured
widely about the University’s art collection.

A record enrollment

Opening enrollment at Washington and
Lee for the 1986-87 academic year was the
highest in the University’s 238-year history.

The enrollment stood at 1,804 students
when classes began for all students in mid-
September, according to figures compiled by
Scott Dittman, University registrar. Dittman
said the records indicate it is the first time
the University has enrolled more than 1,800
students.

The total undergraduate student body at
the opening of classes was 1,440, which
represents an increase of 8.4 percent over the
end of the last academic year.

The School of Law had a total of 364
students when classes began.

In its second year of admitting women
undergraduates, the University had a total
of 228 undergraduate women and 1,201
undergraduate men. Of the women students
who entered during the first year of coeduca-
tion, 96 percent had returned for this year.

The School of Law’s enrollment figures
included 140 women and 244 men.

Duvall, Shaffer appointed

Severn P.C. Duvall, professor of
English at the University, has been named
academic director for the Washington and
Lee Summer Institute for Executives.

Duvall is a scholar of American prose
and literature. His specialty is Southern
literature. He joined the W&L faculty in
1961.

In his capacity as academic director,
Duvall replaces Louis W. Hodges, who has
directed the program since its inception seven
years ago.

Meantime, Thomas L. Shaffer, professor
of law at W&L, will oversee the ethics seg-
ment of the annual Institute. Shaffer,
formerly director of the Frances Lewis Law
Center, is a nationally recognized scholar in
the field of legal ethics.

The Institute for Executives is a two-week
program in which middle-management ex-
ecutives spend two weeks on the Washington
and Lee campus studying literature,
philosophy, religion, and ethics, and then ap-
plying the humanities-based principles to the
decision-making process in the business
world.

 

 

 

Homecoming Queen Colleen Clark Bradley (left) of Sweet Briar
was escorted by W. Ross Singletary; W&L freshman Heather
Brock (right) was first runner-up and was escorted by Bob
Slappey.

“ nN

 

, a
é «

Stephen F. Jones Jr., ’28, was among the Five-Star Generals who
returned for their reunion.

   

®

The W&L pep band entertains the Wilson Field crowd.

W&L 25

 

 

 

Chavis House dedicated

In ceremonies held during Homecoming
weekend, the John Chavis House was
dedicated as a residence for upperclass
students and the cultural center for the
Minority Student Association.

The house, located at 10 Lee Avenue, is
named for the first black student to attend
Washington and Lee.

John Chavis was a widely respected
teacher and minister in the Presbyterian
Church. He attended Liberty Hall Academy
in 1795 after studying at Princeton College.

The plaque that was mounted in the
house reads:

‘*This house is named in honor of John
Chavis, a distinguished minister and teacher
whose career enriched the lives of countless
black and white families in Virginia,
Maryland, and North Carolina in the early
19th century. A free black man, John Chavis
received part of his formal education in 1795
as a student at Liberty Hall, the classical
Rockbridge County Academy from which
Washington and Lee evolved.’’

The first floor of the Chavis House is
used not only by residents of the house but
is open to members of the Minority Student
Association and their guests.

In efforts to promote a closer relation-
ship between the ethnic minority student
population at the University and members
of the Lexington community, a board of ad-
visors has been established to review policies
related to the Chavis House.

The board includes members from the
Lexington community and from the Univer-
sity. Members will meet at regular intervals
with Anece McCloud, the associate dean of
students who has responsibility for minori-
ty affairs at the University, to review mat-
ters related to the use and maintenance of
the house.

‘‘We are hopeful that members of the
board will take an active interest in the
Chavis House and in the students who use
it,’’ McCloud said. ‘‘They are encouraged
to visit the house at various times to get to
know the students better.’’

Library gift adds
to theatre memorabilia

The University Library’s collection of
theatre memorabilia received an important
boost this fall through a gift from George
W. Ray, professor of English at W&L.

Ray has given the University Library 80
autographed letters from 55 famous actors
and playwrights. He purchased the letters in
London last spring when he was on sab-
batical. They had been part of a collection
of theatre memorabilia belonging to the late

26 W&L

 

Chavis House dedication.

Alec Clunes, a leading actor and director in
British theatre who managed the Arts
Theatre in London.

Ray was able to obtain the letters from
Mrs. Clunes, who serves on the board of the
London Academy of Music and Dramatic
Art. The gift has been appropriately named
‘‘The Clunes Theatre Autograph Collec-
tion.”’

Included in the collection are letters from
such leading British actors and actresses as
Charles Kemble, Fanny Kemble, Charles
Kean, William Charles Macready, Ellen
Terry, Sir Henry Irving, and Johnston
Forbes-Robertson. The earliest letter, dated
1807, is from John Philips Kemble, successor
to David Garrick.

The collection also features letters from
playwrights H. J. Byron, James Robinson
Planche, Arthur Wing Pinero, Matheson
Lang, and Tom Taylor, author of Our
American Cousin.

The letters provide an insight into the
lives and careers of those involved in the
British theatre during the Victorian and Ed-
wardian periods, with emphasis on
Shakespearean stage history.

Barbara Brown, head librarian at
Washington and Lee, said the significance
of Ray’s gift is that ‘‘it enables the library
to take a strength we have already in the
Bealer Theatre Collection and build on
that.’’

In 1965 the library received a significant

Anece McCloud (left), associate dean of students, and Dana Jon Bolden, ’89, spoke at the

* 23

 

$
ay

collection of theatre memorabilia from the
late Carter N. Bealer, ’22 (January 1982
W&L Alumni Magazine). The Bealer Collec-
tion contains prints, photographs, letters,
and more than 2,000 playbills acquired dur-
ing Bealer’s lifetime.

The Clunes Collection covers approx-
imately the same era in British stage history
as the Bealer Collection does in American
stage history. Using the two collections,
students interested in stage history can gain
valuable information pertaining to British
and American theatre.

Pew Trust grant
for science equipment

The J. Howard Pew Freedom Trust of
Philadelphia has awarded Washington and
Lee a grant of $200,000 for the purchase of
science equipment for the departments of
biology, chemistry, geology, physics, and
psychology.

*“One of the major challenges facing col-
leges and universities today is to keep pace
with the rapid changes in scientific equip-
ment that have been brought about by
technological advances,’’ said H. Thomas
Williams, associate dean of the College and
professor of physics.

‘“‘We must attempt to provide our
students with opportunities to work with the
most modern equipment. This generous
grant from the J. Howard Pew Freedom

 

 

Trust is an extremely important step toward
realizing that goal.”’

A special committee has been formed on
the campus to examine science instruction at
Washington and Lee and to evaluate the
University’s equipment and physical needs.
The purchases of scientific instrumentation
to be supported by the Pew grant will be bas-
ed on recommendations by that committee.

The J. Howard Pew Freedom Trust is
one of the seven Pew Charitable Trusts
established by the surviving sons and
daughters of Joseph N. Pew, founder of the
Sun Oil Co. The Freedom Trust provides
support in the areas of education, human ser-
vices, public policy, and religion.

Ethyl Scholarships established

Ethyl Corporation of Richmond has
made a commitment of $240,000 to establish
two endowed honor scholarships at
Washington and Lee for students planning
majors and careers in the natural sciences.

The Ethyl Corporation Scholarships,
which will cover full tuition, will be award-
ed to entering students who demonstrate in-
terest in the natural sciences, particularly
chemistry, and exceptional academic and
personal achievement.

‘*The Ethyl Corporation Honor Scholar-
ships will make it possible for the Universi-
ty to recognize outstanding attainment and
to encourage continued achievement among
students in the sciences,’’ said Washington
and Lee President John D. Wilson in an-
nouncing the gift. ‘‘Moreover, Ethyl Cor-
poration’s generosity in establishing these
awards is an important new element in the
University’s ongoing effort to strengthen its
overall science program.”’

M. Christopher Talley, a senior chemistry
major from Roanoke, is the first recipient
of an Ethyl Scholarship.

In 1980 Ethyl Corporation made a gift
to Washington and Lee supporting the
renovation of McCormick Library to become
the home of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

New service fraternity

Since its foundation on the campus less
than a year ago, Washington and Lee’s
newest fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, has
performed more than a dozen service proj-
ects for both the University and Lexington
communities.

Alpha Phi Omega is a coeducational ser-
vice fraternity. The W&L chapter is currently
completing the paperwork to apply for a na-
tional charter. Once that charter is granted,

 

Alpha Phi Omega members Dean Nuckols
(left) and Scott Rippeon make improvements
on the Woods Creek Trail.

APO would become part of the largest Greek
letter organization in the world.

Founded in 1925 at Lafayette College,
more than 162,000 students have participated
in the service fraternity’s programs in 612
chapters nationwide.

Washington and Lee’s chapter currently
has 25 dues-paying members. During the fall
members of the fraternity contributed more
than 80 hours to cleaning and painting the
Lexington Boys’ Club.

Other service projects performed by APO
have included helping the undergraduate
freshmen move into their dormitory rooms,
acting as chauffeurs for Washington and
Lee’s Five-Star Generals during their reunion

at Homecoming, making repairs to the>

Chessie Trail Bridge, and widening the
Woods Creek Nature Trail near the Woods
Creek Apartments on the W&L campus.

‘*People are beginning to know our name
and associate us with service,’’ noted Steve
Pockrass, a W&L senior from Indianapolis
who is president of APO.

Unitrust established

John G. Hamilton, ’32, has made a grant
to the University of stock valued at more
than $600,000 to create a named endowment
for the support of the Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and
Paintings.

Hamilton made the grant in the form of
a unitrust, an arrangement whereby a gift is
made irrevocably to a qualified charity with
the stipulation that an agreed-upon lifetime
income will be returned annually to the
donor.

The donor receives an immediate income-
tax deduction for a portion of the value of
the gift and pays no capital-gains tax on gift
assets that have increased in value. Further,
estate taxes are saved when the assets become
the property of the charity upon the death
of the donor.

Opened in 1982, the Reeves Center
houses Washington and Lee’s collection of
ceramics and Chinese export porcelain and
many of the University’s paintings. It also
serves aS an important study center for
students interested in the decorative arts.

The former chairman of the board of
Redpath Inc. based in Denison, Texas,
Hamilton has long been involved in pro-
grams sponsored by the Reeves Center. He
lived in Cincinnati for many years and is now
a resident of Boca Raton, Fla.

Raymond W. Haman inducted
into Order of the Coif

Raymond W. Haman, ’52L, a partner in
the Seattle law firm of Lane Powell Moss &
Miller, was chosen by the faculty of the
School of Law to receive honorary member-
ship into the Order of the Coif.

The presentation was made at a dinner
in Haman’s honor during Homecoming
weekend at the University in October.

The Order of the Coif is a national law
school honor society founded to encourage
legal scholarship and to advance the ethical
standards of the legal profession.

A 1952 magna cum laude graduate,
Haman is former president of the Law
School Association and a former member of
its governing board, the Law Council. He
received his undergraduate degree from
Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.

Haman is a member and vice chairman
of the Washington State Statute Law Com-
mittee, which is composed of lawyers,
judges, and legislators who oversee the fur-
nishing of bill drafting services to the
Washington State Legislature and publish-
ed the Revised Code of Washington and
regulations of Washington State ad-
ministrative agencies.

A former president of the Young
Republicans of King County, Haman serv-
ed during the 1965 and 1967 legislative ses-
sions as legal counsel to Gov. Daniel J.
Evans and during the 1969 session as special
counsel on state taxation and educational
finance.

W&L 27

 

 

The Generals’ Report

 

Soccer Team Captures First ODAC Championship

 

E..1, in the season Rolf Piranian,
Washington and Lee’s fiery soccer coach,
recognized that his team was possessed of a
confident, unemotional nature.

Piranian knew, too, that his players were
talented. So when the Generals got off to
their customary slow start, losing three of
their first four games, he simply held his
breath and refused to panic.

Instead, he quietly, but steadily, directed
the team to 10 wins in the last 11 games and
its first ever Old Dominion Conference
championship. From that stumbling 1-3
beginning the Generals stood proud and tall
at the end with an 11-4 mark—the most vic-
tories in the soccer team’s history.

‘‘This team and I have different
characters,’’ said Piranian, a 1974 graduate
of W&L where he was an All-South soccer
player. ‘‘I tend to get excited while these
players had confident, self-assured
temperaments. I didn’t worry about the slow
start, because they always had the right at-
titude. I knew they would come around.’’

Besides, Piranian knew that there had
been some extenuating circumstances in
those first four games. Since W&L begins its
academic year later than most of its athletic
rivals, the Generals are often handicapped
in the early season. This year, for instance,
all of W&L’s first four opponents had
already played at least six games by the time
the Generals met up with them. Moreover,
those first four games were all on the road.

The turning point in the season came
when the Generals finally got on their home
field and responded by romping past
Sewanee, 8-0. ‘‘That,’’ says Piranian, ‘‘was
just what we needed.’’

Their confidence restored by the perfor-
mance against Sewanee, the Generals ran off
four consecutive victories, including a 2-1
win over highly touted Messiah on the road.

W&L wrapped up the ODAC crown by
defeating perennial conference power Lynch-
burg in a thrilling 2-1 overtime game at
W&L. Junior John Coll scored both of
W&L’s goals, and the Generals’ defense,
spearheaded by the goalkeeping of junior
Chris Gareis, weathered a series of late flur-
ries to nail down the win.

28 W&L

By Mark Mandel

 

 

Missing his familiar
mustache (see above),
Washington and Lee soc-
cer coach Rolf Piranian
holds the trophy that his
Generals captured for win-
ning the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference
championship.

 

W&L’s John Coll (6) battles for the ball as teammate Peter Van Son (4) moves in.

 

 

 

Although his team was thoroughly
prepared—physically and emotionally—for
the Lynchburg game, Piranian let his emo-
tions get the best of him, and he couldn’t
resist using a ploy he had used in the past:
he vowed to shave his mustache if his team
won.

The last time Piranian sported a naked
upper lip was 1980. He made the same
mustache-shaving promise prior to his team’s
game with Navy. And the Generals respond-
ed by upsetting the Midshipmen 1-0, thereby
knocking them out of a spot in the NCAA
Division I tournament.

‘‘I thought my promise to shave if we
won may have gotten the team emotionally
up,”’ he says. ‘‘However, I don’t think it
made a difference. Our team has played well
all year and really earned the champion-
ship.”’

W&L was successful because of its depth
and balance, according to Piranian. A quick
look at the statistics verifies that assessment.
Ten different players scored goals, and no
single player dominated in any statistical
category.

Sophomore Johnny Sarber led the team
in scoring with six goals and four assists. But
he was just one of seven players who had 10
or more points.

The defense, a question mark before the
season, was stingy throughout the year.
Junior keeper Gareis had three shutouts, and
senior back Tommy Pee and sophomore
back Steve Udicious were consistent per-
formers. Piranian also credited two
freshmen—sweeper Scott Levitt and back
Jeff Caggiano—with helping to pull the
defense together.

‘*It was a real pleasure to coach a team
like this,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘The players show-
ed that you can be disciplined and still have
fun. We won because we believed in
ourselves and never gave up.’’

Incidentally, the coach’s mustache is on
its way back.

ha Generals’ football team had its string
of six consecutive winning seasons come to
an abrupt halt. W&L had compiled a 38-19
record during the past six years but lost its
first six games en route to a 2-7 record.

W&L began the season by losing 31-9 to
Emory & Henry at home. The Generals then
dropped a heartbreaking 7-6 decision to Cen-
tre when a two-point conversion attempt fail-
ed with a minute left to play.

If the Centre game was heartbreaking,
the loss to Randolph-Macon the following
week was more devastating still. When the
Generals broke a 14-14 tie by scoring a
touchdown with 32 seconds in the game, a
victory seemed guaranteed. But the extra

Quarterback Jon Thornton celebrates his sneak
for a touchdown while center Jack Mitchell
(52) and tackle John Packett (72) assist with
the call.

point attempt was blocked, and Randolph-
Macon stunned W&L and a Wilson Field
crowd by marching down the field to score
the tying touchdown when a pass was
deflected into the arms of a Yellow Jacket

 

 

 

player in the end zone. Randolph-Macon’s
extra point sent the Yellow Jackets back to
Ashland with a 21-20 victory.

Although physically battered with
numerous injuries, the Generals never stop-
ped battling. They lost their next three
games: 35-28 to Maryville; 45-14 to
Hampden-Sydney; and 14-7 to Sewanee.

Finally the losing streak was broken with
a 28-14 win over Bridgewater, and the
following Saturday, on Parents’ Weekend,
W&L gained a measure of revenge with a
28-7 victory over Ursinus, the team that had
halted a six-game Generals’ winning streak
a year earlier.

In its season finale on the road against
Allegheny College, the Generals were hum-
bled 34-0.

Although obviously disappointed with
the record, head coach Gary Fallon had
reason to praise his players’ determination.

‘‘There are no excuses,’’ said Fallon.
‘‘We just didn’t perform well. But despite
the final record, I am still proud of the way
our young men played. For the most part we
were intense and aggressive. We just kept
coming up on the wrong end of the score,
especially early in the season when a couple
of bounces meant the difference between a
win and a loss.”’

Fallon had hoped to take some pressure
off senior running back Kevin Weaver, the
Player of the Year in Virginia in 1985. But

 

 

W&L 29

 

 

because the passing game was inconsistent
and often ineffective, Weaver was a mark-
ed man. Even the hot dog vendors knew who
was going to carry the ball for W&L. As a
result, he failed to produce the remarkable
statistics he had as a junior when he led the
nation in scoring and was fourth in rushing.

Weaver did, however, add his name to
another line in the record book. His 87-yard
touchdown run against Ursinus is the longest
run from scrimmage in school history.

Too, Weaver displayed remarkable ver-
satility. In his final home contest, he not only
had the 87-yard touchdown run, but he
began the afternoon by joining classmate
Andrew Bouie to sing the national anthem.

“*It was a bright moment in a fairly dark
season,’’ Weaver told the Roanoke Times
and World-News of his pre-game perfor-
mance. ‘‘Almost as many people com-
plimented me on the national anthem as they
did for the run.’’

The defense, featuring an entirely new
secondary, had its difficulties, yielding an
_ average of 23.1 points per game. By contrast
the Generals scored just 14.9 points a
contest.

*“We will have to put this season behind
us and start a new winning streak,’’ said
Fallon. ‘‘I know the players have the desire

30 ~W&L

to build another winner, and that is most of
the battle.”’

Wy ashineton and Lee’s water polo team
produced its 11th straight winning season,
posting a 20-12 record.

The Generals, who finished second in the
Southern League tournament, were young
and inexperienced as the season began, but
developed into one of the region’s top teams.
All of W&L’s losses came at the hands of
teams ranked in the top 20.

*‘This team showed a lot of drive and
determination,’’ said head coach Page
Remillard. ‘‘We didn’t have superstars who
could carry a team by themselves, so
everyone had to contribute. We came up
short in a few games, but by and large played
well.’’

T,. men’s cross country team was not
particularly deep, but the Generals did have
four top runners, who helped the squad to
a 13-3 record and a third-place finish in the
ODAC.

Seniors Ash Andrews and Ted Myers and
juniors Richard Moore and Scott Rippeon
took turns being W&L’s best finishers, and
all four were usually found near the top of
the results sheet.

‘“We improved as the season progressed,
and those four runners made us hard to
beat,’’ said head coach Dick Miller. .

The highlight of the season came in mid-
November when W&L was host to the
NCAA Division III South-Southeast
Regional Meet. On a damp, cold morning
and over a muddy course, W&L runners
Moore, Myers, and Rippeon finished third,
fourth and fifth among the 77 runners and
thereby earned a trip to the national meet
scheduled for Fredonia, N.Y. The Generals
wound up in third place overall in the
regional, just behind Roanoke and Emory
University.

In its second year of operation, the
women’s team showed significant improve-
ment under the leadership of coach Jim
Phemister, a W&L law professor.

**Each week we broke another school or
course record,’’ said Phemister. ‘‘The run-
ners showed a lot of dedication and en-
thusiasm. They earned my respect and the
attention of all their opponents.”’

The women compiled a 3-5 mark, finish-
ed third in the ODAC championship, and
came in seventh out of eight teams in the
NCAA Division III South-Southeast
Regional. Sophomore Stephanie Smith was
a consistently high finisher for W&L.

 

 

Alumni News

 

Richmond Club Joins Trustees for Reception, Dinner

 

Wii members of the Board of Trustees
were in Richmond for their fall meeting, they
joined members of the Richmond Chapter
and parents of current students for a recep-
tion and dinner at the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts.

The dinner featured remarks by Rector
James M. Ballengee, ’48L, and President
John D. Wilson, as well as musical entertain-
ment by pianist Robert Vienneau, 87, and
soprano Cathleen Tiernan, ’89.

Guests at the event took advantage of the
occasion to visit the newly opened West
Wing of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts,
a 90,000 square-foot addition which brings
together two superb and diverse collections
of art: collections of 19th- and 20th-century
decorative arts and contemporary paintings
and sculptures given by Trustee Frances
Lewis and Trustee Emeritus Sydney Lewis,
40, °43L, of Richmond, which are coupled
with the 18th-, 19th-, and 20th-century
British, French, and American paintings,
drawings, prints, sculptures, and jeweled ob-
jects from Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon of Up-
perville, Va.

Meantime, at its September meeting the
Richmond Chapter heard from Charles C.
Fishburne III, ’66, and Lisa LaFata, co-
anchors for Richmond’s Channel Six news.
The pair spoke about Richmond television
news wars.

Gridiron gatherings

Football prompted four chapters to make
group trips this fall. Members of the Eastern
Kentucky and Southern Ohio chapters travel-
ed to Danville, Ky., to see the Generals bat-
tle the Centre College Colonels. Following
the game (won by Centre 7-6), the group had
dinner at the Elmwood Inn in nearby
Perryville.

Both the Winston-Salem and Lynchburg
chapters organized a trip to Lexington for
the Generals’ Homecoming game against
Hampden-Sydney.

Old Dominion Days

Members of the Southern Ohio and San
Diego chapters participated in ‘‘Old Domin-
ion Day’’ events for alumni of Virginia
schools in October. The California group

 

met at the Fairbanks Ranch Country club,
while their Cincinnati area counterparts en-
joyed a cruise down the Ohio River on a pad-
dlewheel riverboat complete with a live band.
Both gatherings were sponsored by Univer-
sity of Virginia alumni chapters.

Capitol idea and other events

The Washington, D.C., Chapter joined
Sens. John W. Warner, ’49, and Paul S. Tri-
ble, ’71L, for a luncheon at the U.S. Capitol
in mid-September. It was the second time
that the two Virginia Republicans had been
hosts for W&L alumni from the Washington
area.

EASTERN
KENTUCK Y—
} Cheering on the
Generals in their
< game at Centre Col-
= lege were (from
= left) J. T. Perry,
41; B. J. Sturgill,
P, 87, (the W&L
placekicker who
missed the game
with an injury);
Grover Baldwin,
40; Gus Essig, °42;
hae and (kneeling) Tom
.» O’Brien, ’58, *60L,
who came from
Cincinnati with
Southern Ohio
Chapter members.

WASHINGTON—

g Sen. Paul Trible (R-
Va.), *71L, (center)
greets Stewart
Thomas, ’86L,
(left) and
Washington
Chapter president
Beau Dudley, ’74,
*79L, at a
September luncheon
held at the U.S.
Capitol.

The Orange County Chapter held a late
September barbecue at the home of John H.
Norberg, ’80, in Newport Beach.

John W. Elrod, dean of the College, was
the featured speaker at a meeting of the San
Francisco Bay Chapter. His topic was
‘*W&L: Academic Horizons.’’

The New Orleans Chapter hosted a recep-
tion for prospective students at the home of
James R. Brooks, ’77, and his wife.
Representing the University was William M.
Hartog, director of admissions.

During its annual meeting in October, the
Jacksonville Chapter elected James N. Over-
ton, ’75, chapter president. He succeeds
Sidney S. Simmons II, ’80.

W&L 31

POOLLIL IDL I PIP OP LO PROD ODI DE OE

 

RICHMOND—Participating in the Richmond Chapter’s dinner and
reception with the Board of Trustees were (from left) Maurice T. Van
Leer, *51; Sarah Kay; John F. Kay Jr., 51; and Susan Van Leer.

SANTA FE—A Santa Fe meeting of the Frank J. Gilliam Admissions
House project steering committee included (from left) Wendy Straub;

Peter Straub, ’61; Jane Carothers; Henry Harrell, ’61; Madge Randel;
David Carothers, ’61; Jean Harrell; and Ron Randel, ’61.

 

Alumni President’s ator

Dear Fellow Alumni: |

Your Alumni Board continues its busy pace. More Board

members (now 20), new agenda items, and concerned com-

munications from parents and alumni all combined to make
_ our meetings of Oct. 16-18 as intensive as ever. _

The various topics we addressed are lis the end of this
letter, but the Board asked me to devo cial attention to
the state of the Honor System and stude uct controls at
the University. ee

The Alumni Board rated an evaluatio of the Honor System
and student conduct as its number one | for 1986. This
was done at the request of the student body’s Executive Com-
mittee and other student committees and was fueled by con-
cerns of some student leaders, by headline articles i in the Ring-
tum Phi, by comments from parents and al mni, and by the

abiding interest of all alumni in the continued enforcement of
the single-sanction code of honor and i in Toeeting basic levels
of acceptable conduct in W&L students. oo

Two Board committees were formed to examine these areas
through a series of interviews in Lexington with students, facul-
ty, and administrators, and through a review of the procedural
aspects of honor and conduct violations. A report on the find-
ings of these committees was made to the full Alumni Board
on Oct. 18.

To the happiness of all, I report to you that the violation
structures, procedures, and policies now in place, as well as the
policies which are again under review by the faculty, appear
to be sound. Four very technical procedural aspects of open
honor trials were pointed out to the Executive Committee for
its review. In addition, the treatment accorded by the faculty
with respect to drug violations was also pointed out for discus-
sion. We predict the more important of our suggestions will
be carried out or were already being reviewed when we did our
investigation. |

No parent or alumnus wants to see the reduction of the
Honor System or to see a guilty student wriggle free in an open

realistically be expected. The answer we found was ‘‘yes.”’

To all with whom we met, we also encouraged continued
education about the Honor System to new freshmen, new law
students, and new professors. A single-sanction system requires
eternal vigilance in today’s permissive society. More effort than
ever before, we found, is occurring on this educational level
at W&L.

Prominent among our other Board activities is the Alumni
Fraternity Council, which is designed to bring about a
“‘renaissance”’ of the fraternity system at W&L from every con-
ceivable standpoint—physically, structurally, socially, legally,
and involving alcohol and drug use and insurance. The Alum-
ni Fraternity Council, which is chaired by Paul Murphy, ’49,
represents an effort that embraces the entire W&L community
and has, perhaps, as its model the rebuilt Phi Gamma Delta
house. In a few years, one can see the possibility of the return
of house mothers, fraternity room contracts for each active
member, repaired houses, reduced alcohol consumption in the
houses, a stronger IFC, fewer fraternities, several sororities, and
a sound financial footing for each house on campus. In May,
the Alumni Board will meet with the new IFC officers to discuss
the Greek system.

Our other Board activities in 1986 include: a new chapte:
manual; continued efforts toward a revitalized career assistance
program at the chapter level; a new chapter newsletter to be
sent out from Lexington three or four times a year; redecora-
tion of the Alumni House paid for with a $50,000 gift from
the Cadaver Society; continued support for the efforts of the
dean of minority affairs and the Chavis House, the minority
affairs center on campus; continued research into a possible
athletic hall of fame at W&L; continued research into a possi-
ble new book on the University; and strong recommendations
to the administration to reinstitute the leadership conferences
for chapter presidents and Alumni Admissions Program
representatives and to make available the current and future
W&L facilities for summertime business workshops, seminars,
or even conventions.

This, then, is what your Board has been doing and will be
doing over the next many months. Please contact any of us
about whatever you wish whenever you want. We serve you.

 

 

    
  
  
  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

any of this go unpunished. On the other hand, none of us can
stop society’s ever-changing nature and patterns of conduct and
mores.

 

honor trial or to see rampant drug or alcohol abuse, or to see

Our goal, therefore, was only to ask whether the procedure Sincerely,
and structures on the W&L campus that address, control, and Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton, ’62, ’65L
punish honor and conduct violations were as optimal as can President

 

32

W&L

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms _ All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

1927

Allen Harris Jr., chairman of Harris-Tarkett Inc.
in Johnson City, Tenn., had an exciting 21-day
safari during July of this year in Tanzania, Africa.
During the hunt, Harris was able to take several
animals of trophy size including a lion, cape buf-
falo, water buck, and impala. His daughter accom-
panied him on the trip.

1930

L. Palmer Brown III, president emeritus of L. P.
Brown Co., received the Silver Hope Chest Award
presented by the mid-South chapter of the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society for outstanding philan-
thropic and community service. At the first NMSS
Dinner of Champions, Brown was honored for his
work with the organization, having been on its na-
tional board of directors for more than 35 years.
In addition to serving as national president and
chairman and heading countless committees, he
has single-handedly organized many activities in
his hometown of Memphis, Tenn.

1934

Rev. Darby W. Betts has retired after 21 years as
chairman of Episcopal Homes Foundation in the
Diocese of California. Betts began the organiza-
tion in 1965. Today it has an annual budget of
$15 million and operates six major retirement
facilities with 540 full-time employees serving the
housing and health care needs of 1,400 people.
Betts and his wife, Elaine, will now spend their
time at their summer home in Casteen, Maine, and
on the campus of Dana Hall in Wellesley, Mass.,
where she is headmistress.

1941

Theodore A. Bruinsma was recently appointed a
trustee of California State University by Gov.
George Deukmejian. Bruinsma is president of
University Technology Transfer Inc.; past presi-
dent of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce
and Charter Financial Services Corp.; past chair-
man of the Job Training Coordinating Council;
and former dean of Loyola University Law School.
Bruinsma and his wife, Edith, live in Rancho Palos
Verdes, Calif. They have three children and five

grandchildren.
1942

Samuel R. Ames, chairman of the board of Insco
Group Inc., an insurance firm in Norfolk, Va.,
currently serves as chairman of the board of
Medical Center Hospitals. The Norfolk General
and the Leigh Memorial hospitals are units of the
Medical Center Hospitals group.

Robert C. Walker has concluded six years of ser-
vice as mayor of Williamsburg, Va., and 10 years
on the city council. An account in the Daily Press
in Newport News, Va., noting his departure from
public office said, ‘‘We know him as our able
spokesman and as a voice of reason, common
sense, and instinctive courtesy.’’ In 1982, Walker
retired from United Virginia Bank Williamsburg,
where he was president.

1948

James M. Ballengee, rector of Washington and
Lee’s Board of Trustees, has rejoined the law firm

W&L 33

 

 

of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius as counsel to the
firm, where he was a partner 25 years ago.
Ballengee most recently served as chairman and
chief executive officer of Enterra Corp.

1949

Leigh Carter has been named president and chief
operating officer of B.F. Goodrich Co. He was
formerly vice chairman and chief operating officer
of Goodrich in charge of specialty chemical and
aerospace operations. Carter’s new mission will
be to expand Goodrich’s aircraft tires, adhesives,
and sealant divisions, which he has headed since
1984.

Dr. William C. Smith Jr. is president of the
Greensboro Ministers Fellowship. He is minister
of the Congregational United Church of Christ
and lives with his family in Greensboro, N.C.

1953

Albert W. Daub recently became president of
Scarecrow Press, a publishing company located in
Metuchen, N.J. Scarecrow publishes works in such
subject areas as library science, women’s studies,
black studies, and cinema. Daub is active on the
Metuchen Town Planning Board and the
American Library Association, where he is cur-
rently serving his second term on the board of en-
dowment trustees.

Leonard B. Ranson is director of client relations
for the development services division of Telecon-
nect Co. in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Teleconnect is
the 28th fastest-growing company in the United
States, according to Jnc. magazine. Ranson’s divi-
sion specializes in admissions and fundraising ser-
vices for colleges and universities.

John A. Williamson, chairman and owner of
California Plan, has been elected first vice presi-
dent of the California Independent Mortgage

Brokers Association. He has also been re-elected
to the board of trustees at the Hill School in Pott-
stown, Pa., and is chairman of the Better Business
Bureau of Santa Clara, San Cruz, San Benito, and
Monterey counties.

1955

Judge Paul H. Weinstein was elevated to associate
judge of the Circuit Court for the Sixth Judicial
Circuit of Maryland for Montgomery County by
Gov. Harry Hughes. Prior to this appointment,
Weinstein served as a judge in the District Court
of Maryland for Montgomery County. His in-
vestiture ceremony was Aug. 8, 1986.

1956

Oct. 2, 1986 was John J. Popular Day in
Cumberland, Md. The day was declared by Mayor
George M. Wyckoff Jr. to honor Popular’s eight
and one half years of service as executive director
of the Cumberland Area Labor-Management
committee.

John A. Williamson (See 1953.)

1957

William A.G. Boyle is still running his family shoe
business, W.J. Boyle & Sons Ltd., in Hamilton,
Bermuda. He has been actively involved in
Hamilton politics for 19 years, first as common
councillor and now as alderman.

1960

Raymond E. Wooldridge was recently named
president and chief operating officer of Southwest
Securities Inc., a regional brokerage firm based

in Dallas.
1961

Winston E. Kock Jr. has joined the California
Plan as corporate investment representative.
Formerly of PMI and a national sales manager for

 

Seventy-five years after he first arriv-
ed as a freshman at Washington and Lee,
Rupert N. Latture, °15, has left
Lexington.

In October, Lat-
ture, 94, moved to the
Maryfield Nursing
Home in High Point,
N.C. His sister is also
a resident of the
home.

As a Washington
and Lee under-
graduate, Latture was
one of the founding
members of Omicron Delta Kappa, the
honorary fraternity recognizing leader-
ship. That organization now has more
than 180 chapters on college and univer-
sity campuses throughout the United
States.

After graduating from W&L, Latture
left the University for five years—long
enough to serve in France during World

 

 

Latture leaves Lexington

War I and to teach for two years at
preparatory schools.

In 1920 he returned to Lexington to
stay, joining the W&L faculty to launch
a career that lasted 42 years. He became ©
a full professor and head of the politics
department in 1941.

Latture retired from active teaching in
1962. He remained at the University as
a special adviser to the president until
1983 and thereafter occupied a desk in the
Alumni House where he conducted
special research.

For many years, Latture served as a
one-man welcoming committee during
freshman orientation, greeting new
students and parents as they moved into
the dormitories. During his time at W&L
he also maintained extensive cor-
respondenice with many alumni.

Latture’s new address is Rupert N.
Latture, Maryfield Nursing Home, 1315
Greensboro Road, High Point, N.C.
27260.

 

 

34. W&L

mortgage-backed securities at Raucher, Pierce &
Refsnes, Kock is a 10-year resident of San

Francisco.
1963

E. R. Albert III was named chairman and chief
executive officer of the Albert Equipment Co. Inc.
of Tulsa, Okla. The company recently purchased
Boecking Machinery Co. of Oklahoma City, mak-
ing it the sole Caterpillar dealership in Oklahoma.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David J. Andre, a son,
Robert Neil, on Aug. 7, 1986. Andre and Dickey
P. Rabun, ’73L, continue to practice law in Win-
chester, Va., with the firm Andre, Rabun &
Fowler. Andre is second vice president of the Win-
chester Host Lions Club and was Lion of the Year
for 1985. Andre is director of the Grand Feature
Parade of the Shenandoah Apple Blossom
Festival. He is still interested in auto racing and
occasionally crews for Group 44, Jaguar’s
automobile racing team on the IMSA, Camel GT
Circuits.

Dr. Peter S. Trager was recently named Honorable
Fellow of the Georgia Dental Association for his
contributions to dentistry. He has also been elected
vice president of the Northwestern District Den-
tal Society, which represents 22 counties in
northwest Georgia.

1965

James F. Ledbetter is in his fifth year as a soft-
ware design engineer at Texas Instruments in

Austin, Texas.
1966

Edward B. Crosland Jr. has become a partner with
the firm Hogan & Hartson in Washington, D.C.

1967

David J. Andre (See 1964.)

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. McIntyre Jr., a
son, R. Stuart, on Aug. 27, 1986. McIntyre is with
MONY Financial Services and lives with his family
in Mantoloking, N.J.

A. Rodney Boren
Jr. has become
president of
Norwest _ Invest-
ment Services Inc.
In his new posi-
tion at NISI,
Boren heads a
subsidiary with 12 offices in eight states that
Originates, underwrites, trades, and sells fixed-
income securities. Boren and his wife, Susan, live
in the Kenwood section of Minneapolis and have
two children.

 

Lt. Col. Parker A. Denaco recently received the
Reginald C. Harmon Award, given to the
outstanding reserve judge advocate of the year. A
panel of senior members of the U.S. Air Force
judge advocate department selected Denaco for the
award based on his demonstrated excellence, pro-
fessional skill, knowledge, and devotion to duty.
He has served as the staff judge advocate for head-
quarters, Maine Air National Guard at Camp
Keyes in Augusta, Maine, and is the Air National
Guard assistant to the strategic air command judge

advocate.

MARRIAGE: Bernard D. Feld III and Susanna
Van Hoose on May 24, 1985. The couple lives in
Birmingham, Ala., where Feld is a free-lance writer
and advertising consultant.

 

 

Fergle U.’s parties aren’t great,

By Brooke Taylor
Richmond Times-Dispatch Staff Writer

Reprinted with permission

Got $13, a bare chest, and a yearning
for higher education?

Get a T-shirt and a doctorate from
Fergle University in Cincinnati.

Of course, if you have $18.50, you can
get a sweatshirt and a doctorate. This is
a first-class institution we’re talking about
here.

(Actually, it’s a no-classes institution,
strictly a mail-order operation.)

According to the school catalog,
Fergle was founded in 1884 by Elihu
Fergle, a wealthy manufacturer of
industrial-strength trampolines, and soon
became a leader in academic discipline.
With the motto Disce Aut Morere (Learn
or die), it’s the only school in U.S. history
known to have had its own firing squad.

Destroyed by a tragic fire in 1923,
Fergle has been reborn as an innovator
in frugal education under the careful
tutelage of Christopher H. Wigert, dean
of deans.

Wigert—who has plenty of experience
with schools, having graduated from
several, including Washington and Lee
(°65), the Columbia Business School, and
the Officer’s Transportation School at
Fort Eustis, Va.—came up with his no-
tions about the new Fergle one morning
when he woke up early ‘‘by mistake.”’

“If you look at the Harvard catalog
and the Spiegel catalog,’’ the dean of
deans said, ‘‘there’s a really big gap in the
catalog business, and we decided to try
to bridge that gap.’’

Fergle, Wigert said, offers a ‘‘price
breakthrough. You can spend a couple
thousand dollars on somebody else’s
mail-order doctorate, or you can spend
$13 on ours. For the price of 10 minutes
at Harvard, you could get a doctorate at
Fergle.’’

Wigert, a copywriter for Lawler-
Ballard in Cincinnati when he’s not ad-
ministering Fergle affairs, got help from
his wife, Margaret, in designing the cur-
riculum and catalog for the rejuvenated
university.

Fergle’s mail-order grads can select
from a wide range of studies—from
reckless spending and Midwestern humor
to Aztec cuisine and yodeling. The list of
35 courses of study was whittled from
about 80 potential majors.

 

 

A satisfied Fergle grad

**Some were really off the wall,’’ said
Wigert, mentioning wishful thinking as
one that was dropped. So far, he
reported, Swiss banking and absentee
management are most popular with T-
shirted Ph.D.’s.

The curriculum is not the only thing
that separates Fergle from other univer-
sities. ‘‘We had better parties at W&L,”’
Wigert said. ‘‘The academic standards
aren’t as high at Fergle, but eventually
they might be. And they’re probably as
high as at some schools.’’

Fergle is not the first fictitious mail-
order university. One of the Fergle

but its price is

Fighting Elephants’ recent graduates sent
Wigert a newspaper story about another
such institution that flourished in the
1970s. ‘‘But it had some strange name,”’
Wigert said.

Unlike Fergle?

‘*There are hundreds and hundreds of
Fergles in Cincinnati,’’ he claimed,
though he has been unable to determine
if any are related to the founder. ‘‘The
problem is that the fire destroyed all the
records. When people ask us questions,
we can’t answer them.

‘‘Like, were any students ever ex-
ecuted? We have no idea. I think having
a university firing squad is the ultimate
threat, but it seems a little drastic. Once
you execute somebody, they’re in no posi-
tion to pay any more tuition.”’

Forty percent of the folks who have
paid tuition to Fergle so far hail from
California—‘‘Those people are totally
nuts,’’ Wigert explained—but response
has been good all over the country. After
two weeks on the market, Fergle had sold
40 T-shirts—oops, doctorates—and
answered requests for nearly 500 catalogs.

‘‘My wife said if the response gets
much larger, we’re going to have to get
a bigger kitchen table,’’ Wigert said.

Now he’s pushing the Fergle doctorate
as the perfect Christmas gift. ‘‘A doc-
torate is forever,’’ he said. ‘‘Unlike a dia-
mond that can be lost or stolen. The IRS
can take your car, your house, your
business, but it can never take your doc-
torate.”’

The dean of deans has big plans for
his university. Right now, Fergle is quite
small, about the size of a mailbox—
presumably ivy covered. But soon Wigert
hopes to offer an athletic program:
Become-a-Three-Letter-Man-(or
Woman)-For-Only-$13. He’s also con-
sidering a Fergle cookbook, a Fergle ex-
ercise book and, the ultimate, an official
Fergle Old School Tie.

And, if things go really well, Wigert
said, the university may even resume
classes someday.

Prospective graduates can order a
doctorate and shirt or a free copy of the
university catalog by writing to Fergle
University, P.O. Box 2505, Cincinnati,
Ohio 45201-2505.

 

 

W&L

35

 

 

 

 

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David L. Hull, a daughter,
Rebecca Glenn, on July 24, 1986. She joins a twin
brother and sister, 6. Hull is the Los Angeles
district manager of Hertz-Penske Truck Leasing.
The family lives in Claremont, Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Milnor, a son,
Guy Hustis, on July 29, 1986. He joins two
brothers, J.B. and Ty. Milnor is assistant com-
monwealth’s attorney for Albemarle County, Va.
He and his family live in Charlottesville.

Edward B. Crosland Jr. (See 1966.)

Harry L. Salzberg recently opened and currently
manages the Tidewater, Va., office for Dominick
& Dominick, a New York Stock Exchange
brokerage firm. Salzberg and his wife, Alice, live
in Virginia Beach.

Edward B. Suplee Jr. has been appointed a vice
president in charge of Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co.’s group national sales office in Pittsburgh, Pa.
He has responsibility for servicing Metropolitan’s
largest group accounts in the Midwest. He and his
family live in Newton Square, Pa.

1971

Rev. John D. Copenhaver Jr. received his doc-
torate in religion with a concentration in spirituali-
ty from the Catholic University of America in
May. He was awarded a grant from the Bogert
Fund for his dissertation, ‘“The Relation of Prayer
and Social Responsibility in the Spiritual Theology
of Douglas V. Steere.’’ He is presently pastor of
Calvary United Methodist Church in Salem, Va.

1972

Dr. J. Hudson Allender has been elected to
fellowship in the American College of Cardiology,
a nonprofit professional medical society and
teaching institution dedicated to the care and
prevention of cardiovascular disease. Allender is
currently director of the pediatric intensive care
unit at Fort Worth Children’s Medical Center in
Texas.

Robert A. Carrere received his doctorate in clinical
psychology in February 1986. His dissertation was
titled ‘“Tragedy as a Psychological Experience:
Psychoanalytic and Phenomenological Perspec-
tives.’’ He presented the results of his research in
May 1986 at the Fifth International Human
Science Research Conference in San Francisco.
Carrere recently became a licensed psychologist
and plans to open a private practice as a consul-
tant and psychotherapist in the New York area.

Lex O. McMillan III has been promoted to direc-
tor of development at Randolph-Macon College.
He was formerly associate director of develop-
ment. McMillan, his wife, Dorothy, and their four
children live in Ashland, Va.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Ridgely Porter III, a

daughter, Eleanor Madison Macon, on July 31,
1986, in Portsmouth, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Dorsey M. Ward Jr., a son,
Andrew Petersen, on Aug. 28, 1986. Ward and
his family live in Sylva, N.C., where Ward is direc-
tor of substance abuse services for the local com-
munity mental health center.

1974
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Hoyt, a daughter,

Emily Remshart, on July 8, 1986. The family lives
in Marietta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John S. Lalley Jr., a son,
John S. III, on July 30, 1986. He joins two sisters,

36 =—W&L

Jennifer and Tara. Lalley is assistant treasurer of
McCormick and Co. Inc., a leading producer of
spices, seasonings, and food products. The com-
pany is located in Baltimore, Md.

David C. Lotts has been named editor of the
Virginia Tech Magazine, a publication that goes
out to about 90,000 alumni, faculty, staff, and
friends of the university. He was formerly an editor
at the Greensboro News & Record.

Richard H. Milnor (See 1970.)

1976

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William E. Garrison III,
a daughter, Meredith Mitchell, on Sept. 23, 1986,
in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Lovegrove, a
daughter, Grace Meredyth, on Aug. 27, 1986, in
Roanoke, Va.

John D. Gottwald
was recently nam-
ed vice president
of the plastics and
energy division of
Ethyl Corp. in
Richmond, Va.
He is responsible
for all plastic
group activities, as well as coal, oil, and gas opera-
tions. He was formerly general manager of Ethyl’s
energy group and executive vice president of the
Elk Horn Coal Corp. Gottwald is also a director
of the National Council of Coal Lessors.

 

E. Morgan Maxwell III has become a member of
the firm Drinker, Biddle & Reath in Philadelphia.
He will specialize in the practice of tax law.

Dr. Vaughan M. Pultz is teaching chemistry at the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro.

1978

MARRIAGE: Rodney M. Cook Jr. and Emily
English Robinson on April 12, 1986. Members of
the wedding party.included the groom’s father,
Rodney M. Cook, °46, as best man; Asa G.
Candler VI, ’78; G. David Low, ’78; and M. Peck
Brumby, ’79. The couple lives in Atlanta.

Richard S. Cleary, an attorney with the Louisville
law firm Greenebaum, Doll & McDonald, was
recently featured in the ‘‘Business Briefs’’ section
of Louisville magazine. The article, ‘‘Pinch Hit-
ters for the Stars,’’ examined Cleary’s perspective
on his law firm’s recent merger with an Orlando,
Fla., firm that specializes in sports law.

1979

MARRIAGE: John P. Stafford and Melissa Lloyd
on Oct. 18, 1986. Marshall M. Barroll, ’79, serv-
ed as groomsman. Stafford is assistant to the presi-
dent of Kerr Engineered in Pittsburgh, Pa. He
recently joined the Pittsburgh East Rotary Club
and serves on a number of committees at the
Presbyterian Church of Sewickley, Pa. He and his
wife live in Sewickley.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Cotesworth P. Simons, a
daughter, Natalie Pinckney, on Aug. 18, 1986, in
Charleston, S.C. She joins a sister, Elizabeth Mit-
chell, 2.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Sledd Jr., a
son, Justin Allen, on Nov. 18, 1985. The family
lives in Richmond, Va.

Robert M. Balentine Jr. was recently elected vice
president of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
in Atlanta. Balentine and his wife, Betty, have two
daughters, Elizabeth, 4, and Emily, 18 months.

1980

MARRIAGE: Walton VY. Clark and Deedy Hen-
ning on June 7, 1986, in Garden City, N.Y. Clark
received his master’s degree in business administra-
tion from the Darden School of Business at UVa
in May 1986 and recently joined the Thomas J.
Lipton Co. in Englewood Cliffs, N.J.

In September 1986 Robert B. Earle raced in the
United States Triathlon Series National Champion-
ship in Hilton Head, S.C. He qualified for the race
in the Boston Triathlon in August 1986. Earle lives
in Gaithersburg, Md.

Capt. Wellington Goddin Jr. left active duty in
August 1986 after six years of service in the U.S.
Army. He spent the last three years with special
forces in Latin America. Goddin will now live in
Alexandria, Va.

William W. Paxton has joined the marketing staff
of Cadillac Fairview Urban Development Inc. He
was most recently with Spaulding & Slye as a com-
mercial broker.

Bruce W. Whipple completed a master’s degree
in product design from North Carolina State
University in May 1986. During the last year, he
served as design and business editor of the student
publication of the School of Design. He directed
the design, typography, production, and contracts
for the book Urban Design In Action, which was
published in conjunction with the American In-
stitute of Architects. He is presently working as
marketing director for Marcellus Wright Cox and
Smith Architects, P.C., in Richmond, Va.

MARRIAGE: W. Powell Jones and Caren
McKenzie on June 7, 1986, in Thomasville, Ga.

Philip D. Calderone has accepted the position of
assistant general counsel at Villa Banfi U.S.A.
Calderone, his wife, Anne, and their son, Daniel,
live in St. James, N.Y.

Ben W. Keesee has received the City of Memphis
Award of Merit for his coverage of the political
and medical issues involved in the consideration
of a move by St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital
from Memphis to St. Louis. The half-hour
documentary also received the Radio and Televi-
sion News Directors Association award for best
continuing news coverage. Keesee has received
first-place awards for investigative reporting in
statewide competitions by both the Associated
Press and United Press International. He is an in-
vestigative reporter and weekend anchor for
WREG-TV in Memphis, Tenn., where he is com-
pleting his last year at Memphis State University
law school. This summer he took a leave of
absence from Channel Three to clerk with the firm
Thomason, Hendrix, Harvey, Johnson, Mitchell,
Blanchard and Adams in Memphis. He is now
clerking one day a week for Tennessee Appellate
Court Judge Frank Crawford. He serves on the
board of directors of Dogwood Village Youth
Home and the West Tennessee Home Health Care

Advisory Board.
1982

Dr. Harold R. Bohlman III graduated from the
University of Houston College of Optometry in
May 1986. He spent the summer in San Antonio,
Texas, at Fort Sam Houston and currently prac-
tices optometry at Moncrief Army Hospital in Fort
Jackson, S.C.

Bryan S. Kocen began business school at the
University of Chicago this fall. He spent the last
three years working in New York City.

 

 

Alumnus stars
in Roscius premiere

After having appeared in professional
theaters in Washington, D.C., and on two
daytime television programs, Paul Nor-
wood, ’73, returned to his alma mater this
fall to play on Washington and Lee’s
University Theatre stage.

Chances are that members of the
Class of 1973 will not recognize a
classmate named Paul Norwood. And
with good reason. Back then he was
known as Norwood (Skip) Paukert.

In November Norwood had the lead
role in the University Theatre’s produc-
tion of Roscius, an original play written
by Rose Gordon and directed by her hus-
band, W&L drama professor Albert C.
Gordon. The play is based on the life of
18th-century British actor David Garrick.

When he was invited back to the cam-
pus to portray Garrick, Norwood agreed
before he had even read the script. ‘‘I
think the play has a lot of possibilities,”’
he said. ‘‘Of course, being an actor, I love
plays about the theater and about other
actors.’’

Since leaving Washington and Lee 13
years ago, Norwood has collected im-
pressive acting credentials. He appeared
in 13 productions in three seasons as a
member of the resident acting company
at Washington’s Folger Shakespeare
Theatre. His roles included Octavius in
Julius Caesar and Paris in Romeo and
Juliet. He also taught a course in ‘‘Act-
ing Shakespeare’’ at the Folger
Conservatory.

In addition, he played the roles of
Marley, Young Scrooge, and Nephew
Fred in a staging of Dickens’ A Christmas
Carol at Ford’s Theatre, also in
Washington. At that city’s Source
Theatre he had the title role in Henry V.
His portrayal of Max in the Source’s pro-
duction of Martin Sherman’s Bent was
recognized by the Washington Times’
year-end theatre review as being among
the ‘‘best performances by an actor in a
leading role.’’

   

Paul Norwood, ’73,

.

In 1984 he was a guest artist at the
University of Maryland at College Park,
where he played Bluntschi in George Ber-
nard Shaw’s Arms and the Man.

He has studied acting with director Vi-
vian Matalon and with British actor An-
thony Hopkins. He currently lives in New
York City, where he has appeared on the
daytime series ‘‘Guiding Light’’ and ‘‘As
the World Turns.”’

As an undergraduate at W&L, Nor-
wood had little time to participate in
theatre productions, although he did
study under the late Lee Kahn. An
English major, he served as editor of the
Ring-tum Phi, co-editor of the Calyx, and
co-chairman of Contact, the University’s
speakers symposium. He was inducted in-
to Omicron Delta Kappa.

Returning to the campus 13 years
after graduation, Norwood has noticed
some changes, but noted that many of the
faculty members under whom he studied
had changed very little.

‘*Except for a few gray hairs, most of
the professors look the same as when I
studied with them,’’ he said.

‘“‘Dr. (George W.) Ray was my
Shakespeare professor, so it was an add-
ed thrill to be working with him in this
play,’’ said Norwood. Ray was cast as

     

(left) with playwright Rose Gordon

James Quin, a tragic actor, in Roscius.

Norwood said he was impressed with
the enthusiasm and professionalism of the
students with whom he worked in the
play. ‘‘My first impression was that they
are awfully young,”’ he said. ‘‘But they
work very hard and want to do the best
they can. It has been a great experience.”’

For the student-actors, Roscius
presented two uncommon opportunities.
On the one hand, the students were able
to learn from working with Norwood.
And on the other hand, they were stag-
ing a premiere performance.

Mrs. Gordon, who has a master’s
degree in playwriting from the Universi-
ty of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
became interested in Garrick’s life four
years ago when she wrote a research paper
on the actor. |

‘I became fascinated with this man’s
personality,’’ she said. ‘‘He is a very in-
teresting figure.’’

According to the playwright, Garrick
was troubled by the fact that, despite his
fame, he was never accepted in the
aristocratic British society. As an actor,
he was ‘‘a real celebrity in his time,’’ Mrs.
Gordon said, noting that he was the
author of more than 35 plays and the
owner of the Drury Lane Theatre.

 

 

 

 

George H. West III has joined the Atlanta office
of Peat Marwick, a Big Eight international
accounting firm, as assistant accountant in the
audit department.

1983
MARRIAGE: Evans S. Attwell and Theresa Hall
on June 21, 1986, in Lee Chapel. Attwell has begun
his first year of graduate studies at the University
of Texas Business School in Austin.

William W. (Scott) Broom Jr. is the western

bureau correspondent for Denver’s KCNC-TV. He
covers the western half of Colorado.

Daniel M. Einstein is treasurer of Rosenfeld-
Einstein & Associates, a full-service independent
insurance agency in Greenville, S.C.

Gregory E. Johnson is currently working at
Franklin Resources Inc. as a portfolio manager in
San Mateo, Calif.

Gordon W. Stewart has changed law firms to join
Phillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine & Huber in
Wilmington, Del.

1984
MARRIAGE: Charles W. Alcorn III and Annette

Genevieve Wagner on July 26, 1986, in Fort
Worth, Texas.

MARRIAGE: Robert W. Massie IV and Kerry
Ann Guinan on Sept. 20, 1986, in Fairfield, Conn.
Massie is a financial analyst for Hecht’s in
Washington, D.C.

MARRIAGE: David J. Warrenfeltz Jr. and Jodie
Taylor on June 28, 1986. Warrenfeltz teaches math
and coaches football and baseball at North

W&L 37

 

 

_ Hagerstown High School in Hagerstown, Md.

James P. Laurie III has become human resources
director for Printers II Corp., a publications
manufacturer in Tuxedo, Md. He lives in
Washington, D.C.

1985

MARRIAGE: William W. DeCamp and Mimi Kit-
chel on July 12, 1986, in Nashville, Tenn. Members
of the wedding party included James M. Anthony,
°85; Ian G. Banwell, ’85; James T. Cobb Jr., 85;
Robert W. Coleman, ’85; Thomas W. Sackfield,
°84; and H. Powell Starks, ’83. DeCamp has join-
ed E. S. Brugh & Co. Inc., an independent in-
surance agency in Nashville, Tenn.

MARRIAGE: John A. DiDuro and Eleanor Renee
Heustess in Newport News, Va., on Oct. 10, 1986.
DiDuro is a logistics engineer for the Newport
News Shipbuilders.

Charles B. (Kibby) Atkinson is a first-line super-
visor for a test engineering department of the
Eastman-Kodak government systems division in
Rochester, N.Y.

David R. Hanna is a second-year law student at
Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas.

Paul D. Marasciullo is working as an account ex-
ecutive at First Jersey Securities in Huntington Sta-
tion, N.Y.

Robert A. Schlegel was commissioned an ensign
in the U.S. Navy at Officer Candidate School in
Newport, R.I., on March 28, 1986. After
graduating from the Surface Warfare Officers
Division Officer Course, he reported aboard the
USS Spartanburg County, an amphibious landing
ship homeported in Little Creek, Va. The ship is
currently deployed to the North Atlantic to take
part in the NATO exercise ‘‘Northern Wedding
86.’’ He has been operating off the coast of Nor-
way, Scotland, and Denmark and is scheduled to
transit the Kiel Canal in Germany. Expected port
calls are in Denmark and Norway. Schlegel is serv-
ing as combat information center officer and elec-
tronic materials officer. He has collateral duties
in public affairs and intelligence.

William E. White III was presented the Bronze
Award at the 106th annual meeting of North-
western Mutual Life in Milwaukee. The award is
presented to first-year agents who have achieved
outstanding sales levels and have demonstrated
professional and ethical excellence in life insurance
counseling. In addition to his national award,
White has also received local awards from North-
western’s Virginia agency.

1986

D. Scott Adams is working for N.C. National
Bank in Tampa, Fla.

C. Nicholas Berents III is a newscaster/reporter
for WIDE-AM radio in Biddeford, Maine. He lives
in Kennebunkport, Maine.

George T. Corrigan is employed by the English
Lacrosse Union. He has accepted a six-month posi-
tion teaching lacrosse in Manchester, England.

Patrick L. Cummings has begun first-year studies
at the Dickinson School of Law in Carlisle, Pa.

James Y. Kerr II works for First Union National
Bank in Charlotte, N.C. He is responsible for the
bank’s college recruiting program.

Daniel J. O’Connor III is employed by Central
Atlanta Progress Inc., an organization devoted to
the revitalization of the central Atlanta area.
O’Connor is also working on Central Area Study
II, a two-year study of plans for downtown Atlan-
ta in the year 2000.

38 = W&L

C. Michael Stachura is a sportswriter and sports
columnist for the Alabama Journal in Mont-
gomery, Ala.

Robert S. Whann IV is vice president of G.H.
Leidenheimer Baking Co. Ltd. in New Orleans,
La.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1916

Lawrence Battle Bagley, a native of Fayetteville,
Tenn., died Sept. 16, 1986. At W&L, Bagley was
selected for the Philadelphia Enquirer’s All-
American Football Team, although he weighed on-
ly 127 pounds. Following graduation, he and his
brother formed Bagley and Bagley Insurance. He
remained with the agency until his retirement in
the early 1970s. Bagley was also a leading official
in the Southern Football Conference and the
Southeastern Conference and served as president
of the Officials Association in the 1930s. He of-
ficiated in the Rose, Sugar, Cotton, and Orange
Bowls. He was honored by the entire Southeastern
Conference in 1950 following his retirement.
Bagley served in World War II and held the rank
of second lieutenant. He was a deacon and elder
of the First Presbyterian Church in Fayetteville and
was a member of the Rotary Club. He also serv-
ed as historian for Lincoln County, Tenn.
1923

Kenneth Royster Smith, a retired manager of the
Hanover Group of Insurance Companies for
North Carolina, died Aug. 16, 1986. After serv-
ing with the U.S. Naval Air Corps in World War
I, Smith, a Raleigh, N.C., native, began his
business career in the insurance field. He was ex-
ecutive special agent for Great American Group
of Insurance Co.’s North Carolina department.
He served as chairman of the committee on rates,
rules, and forms for the N.C. Inspection and
Rating Bureau, and as a member of the executive
committee of the N.C. Fire Insurance Rating
Bureau. Smith was also chairman of the executive
committee for the Stock Fire Insurance Field Club
of Raleigh and was a member of the N.C. Real
Estate Licensing Board. He was a member of the
Wake County Democratic Executive Committee
for 10 years. He was director of the Atlantic and
N.C. Railroad by appointment of Gov. William

B. Umstead and was appointed by Gov. Bob Scott
to the State Government Reorganization Study
Commission. Smith also served as director and vice
president of the National Association of Real
Estate Licensing Law Officials.

George Matthew Wiltshire, former owner of Matt
Wiltshire Real Estate, died in Richmond, Va., on
Sept. 30, 1986. After graduating from W&L,
Wiltshire worked in the advertising department of
the Richmond Times-Dispatch and the Richmond
News Leader. During the Depression he manag-
ed the Richmond district office of Homeowners
Loan Corp. and was credited with saving many
local homes from foreclosure. He was promoted
to manager of the firm’s eastern district office in
1935 and was named state service supervisor in
1937. In that same year Wiltshire left the firm to
become president of Southern Fiber Corp. In the
1950s he started his own real estate business focus-
ing on commercial and industrial properties.
Wiltshire was active in his community’s
Democratic Party and was a founder of the Young
Democrats Club and sergeant-at-arms for seven
national Democratic conventions. He was also
campaign manager for former Virginia Gov. Harry
S. Byrd Sr. during his unsuccessful bid for the
Democratic nomination for the U.S. presidency.

1925

Millar Barry White, retired owner of General
Truck Co. in Oklahoma City, Okla., died Aug.
17, 1986. White spent 35 years with the GMC truck
division of General Motors Corp. before going into
private business. He was active in Oklahoma Ci-
ty’s Kiwanis Club and Chamber of Commerce and
the Crown Heights Methodist Church.

1927

Wilson Armstrong Orr, a native of Springfield,
Ill., died Oct. 2, 1986, in Louisville, Ky. Orr was
employed by Liberty National Bank and Trust Co.
until 1942 when he joined the Louisville Bank for
Cooperatives, a member of the Farm Credit
System of Banks. He served as assistant treasurer,
secretary, vice president, and treasurer before he
was elected president in 1966. He retired four years
later. An avid gardener, he was a two-term presi-
dent of the Louisville Rose Society and a member
of the American and Royal Nation Rose societies.
He was a charter and lifetime member of his com-
munity’s Optimist Club and held the office of
secretary for 20 years. Orr also served as a deacon
and elder in the Presbyterian Church.

1929

William Fleming Chandler, retired president of the
industrial coatings division for Porter Paint Co.,
died Jan. 14, 1986. At W&L, Chandler was cap-
tain of the golf team. He also attended W&L law
school and the University of Louisville law school,
where he finished his law degree. After a few years
with a New York Stock Exchange brokerage firm,
Chandler joined Porter Paint Co., where he re-
mained until 1979. During his career, Chandler was
a member of the National Association of Corro-
sion Engineers and a charter member of the
Kanawha Coating Society. He served as a W&L
class agent from 1971 to 1974. He was active in
Louisville’s Junior Chamber of Commerce and
served as its president in 1935. The chamber
honored him with its distinguished service award.
He served on the standing, finance, and develop-
ment committees of the Episcopal Diocese of Ken-
tucky. Chandler was a former president of the
Wynn Stay Club and the board of governors of
the River Valley Club. In addition to his many civic
duties and honors, Chandler remained an avid

 

 

golfer and was twice named golf champion by the
Louisville Country Club.

Henry Algernon Renken, a retired U.S. Navy rear
admiral, died July 20, 1986, in the Naval Hospital
of Great Lakes, Ill. Among the honors bestowed
on Renken were the U.S. Navy Distinguished Ser-
vice Medal, Silver Star Medal, and four Legion
of Merit Medals. He was also retired vice presi-
dent of Inter-Probe Inc., a producer of modular
energy transfer catalyzers.

1930

William Hudson Fields Jr., former president of
Seaport Counsellors Inc., died March 15, 1986.
During World War II, Fields served as a lieute-
nant in the U.S. Naval Reserves assigned to avia-
tion patrol anti-submarine in the North Atlantic
Sector. He worked in New Orleans, La., as a mort-
gage banker for 13 years. He then became a general
contractor and formed the partnership Fields and
Fields Lumber Manufacturers in Greenville, Ala.
Fields continued his career as a consultant for
Frederick Chusia & Co. until he became president
of Seaport Counsellors Inc. in Texas. Fields was
active in the Boston Club of New Orleans, Rotary
Club, American Legion, and Sons of the American
Revolution.

Dr. Murrel Herman Kaplan of New Orleans, La.,
died July 17, 1986. Kaplan, a Phi Beta Kappa
graduate of W&L, attended medical school at the
University of Louisville until 1934 and began a
private practice of internal medicine in New
Orleans two years later. From 1942 through 1946,
he served with the 64th General Hospital in North
Africa and Italy for the Army Medical Corps.
Kaplan returned to Louisiana and was a senior in
gastroenterology at Touro Infirmary, visiting
physician at Charity Hospital, and assistant clinical
professor of medicine with subspecialty in
gastroenterology at Louisiana State University
medical school. He was elected into the American
College of Physicians, American College of
Gastroenterology, and the American
Gastroenterological Association. In 1967, after
years on the board of trustees of the American Col-
lege of Gastroenterology, Kaplan assumed the of-
fice of president. At the time of his death he was
in full-time practice with the professional medical
corporation of Drs. Kaplan, Goldman, Weisler &
Friedman, Ltd.
1931

William Fleming Chandler (See 1929).

1932

Claxton Edmonds Allen Jr., former director of
special services for United Press International, died
Sept. 18, 1986, in Mattituck, N.Y. He began his
career as a journalist with The Reporter, the Paris
edition of the Chicago Tribune. He then joined
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, where he worked
from 1934 until 1936. Allen was associated with
U.P.I. from 1936 until 1974. He was also publisher
of the Ocean Press Newspapers, a chain of ship-
board newspapers, from 1963 until his retirement
in 1974. His civic activity included membership in
The Players, Dutch Treat, and The Lambs, all in
New York City, and the National Press Club in
Washington, D.C.

Paul Olaf Dickey of Roanoke, Va., died July 20,
1986. He was a salesman for Chilcote Co. in
Cleveland, Ohio, before moving to Roanoke to
work for the New River Electrical Corp.

Hannibal Joyce of Covington, La., died May 31,
1986.

Ira Dancy Oglesby Jr., former owner of Fort
Smith Table and Furniture Co. in Fort Smith,

Ark., died Sept. 14, 1985. Oglesby was vice presi-
dent and superintendent of the Ballman Cummings
Furniture Co. in Fort Smith before starting his own

business in 1951.
1933

James Franklin Jones, former television
copywriter and newspaper columnist, died Aug.
15, 1985. After a short career with the New York
Post and as an actor in Antoinnette Perry’s Broad-
way musical Janie, Jones began scriptwriting for
‘‘The Milton Berle Show’’ and other popular radio
shows. Berle once said of Jones, ‘‘He is fresh and
witty—one of the most inspired all-around writers
I’ve ever met.’’ In 1948, he began his career in
television, which included scriptwriting for Perry
Como, Bob Hope, Paul Winchell, and Jackie
Gleason. In the late 1960s the Reporter Dispatch
in White Plains, N.Y., added Jones to its staff,
where he was editor and writer. In his later years
with the paper, Jones wrote a column titled ‘‘You
and Me,”’ in which he often made mention of
Washington and Lee. ‘‘His column was the first
thing I turned to in the paper,’’ said White Plains
attorney Stephen Holder. ‘‘I always enjoyed
meeting him in the street because he always had
a chuckle. You always walked away with a smile.”’
His civic interests included membership in the
American Society of Composers and Publishers,
Writers’ Guild, and Actors’ Equity. He was also
a member of the Salvation Army and the White
Plains Presbyterian Church.

1934

Joseph Ashby Burton, retired director of Chemical
Physics Research for Bell Telephone Laboratories,
died Aug. 31, 1986. Burton, a native of Onley,
Va., earned his doctorate in chemistry from Johns
Hopkins University in 1938. That same year he
joined Bell Labs and began studying photoelec-
tric emission. During World War II he designed
analog computers for radar bombsights and for
the first Nike-Ajax Systems. In 1958, he was ap-
pointed director of semiconductor research at Bell
and eight years later became director of the
chemical physics research laboratory. During his
38-year career, he was granted patents in the
technologies of color television transmission, car-
rier lifetimes in semiconductors, and in the elec-
tron emission field. Burton was elected a fellow
of the American Physical Society and served as
treasurer of that organization’s executive commit-
tee and council. He also held a position on the
governing board of the American Institute of
Physics. He published several articles on solid state
physics and chemistry in professional journals.

1936

Jack Foley Bailey of Morristown, Tenn., died
Aug. 9, 1986. He was formerly superintendent of
Panther Creek Park.

Frederic Morrison Robinson Jr. of St. Louis, Mo.,
died Aug. 23, 1986. Robinson joined the U.S.
Navy in 1942 and served with the Naval Air Corps
in England, holding the rank of lieutenant com-
mander. After leaving the service, Robinson joined
the E.C. Robinson Lumber Co. where he served

as vice president.
1937

Francis Max England of Charleston, W. Va.,
retired real estate agent for the C.D. Old Colony
Co., died May 20, 1986. England was a member
of Masonic Blue Lodge Kanawha 20, Scottish Rite
Bodies, Beni Kedem Shrine, and Charleston Elk
Lodge. He was also a charter member of
Charleston Boat Club and a Navy veteran of
World War II.

1939

William Alexander Stewart Wright of Denton,
Md., died Dec. 6, 1985. After his undergraduate
career at W&L, Wright attended law school at the
University of Maryland and received his degree in
1941. During World War II, he served as an in-
telligence officer for the U.S. Naval Reserve. After
the war he returned to Denton, where he practic-
ed law and ran a real estate business. Wright served
as chairman for the County Projects Board and
was Caroline County magistrate for 14 years. He
was a vestryman in the Episcopal Church.

1945

Robert James Bell Mahon Jr., a retired RCA ex-
ecutive, died July 3, 1986. Mahon served with the
65th Infantry Division in France and Germany
during World War II. In 1948 he joined the public
relations staff of the RCA Exhibition Hall in New
York’s Radio City. He served as manager of labor
relations for RCA’s missile and radar division and
later became personnel manager in the personnel
department’s executive development division.

1949

William Chris Eickhof Jr., former president of
Financial Insurance Service Inc., died July 26,
1985. He was admitted to the Virginia bar in 1949
and was employed by the Travelers Insurance Co.
in Richmond, Va. Travelers transferred him to its
Chicago offices as a field supervisor in the fideli-
ty and surety department. Eickhof was promoted
to superintendent in 1956. Two years later, he left
Travelers to accept a position as vice president of
Scarborough & Co. Insurance Agency Inc. In
1969, he and eight associates formed Financial In-
surance Service Inc., which specialized in insur-
ing commercial banks. Eickhof served as executive
vice president and president of the company.

1956

Judge Willard Irving Walker, a former circuit
court judge and a native of Charlottesville, Va.,
died Sept. 28, 1986.° Walker received his
undergraduate degree at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. At W&L law school, he
was co-parliamentarian of the Mock Convention
and a Moot Court team national semi-finalist.
After graduation from law school, Walker join-
ed his father’s Charlottesville law practice. Four
years later he joined the Richmond firm McGuire,
Woods & Battle, where he specialized in civil litiga-
tion, principally on the defense. In 1976, he was
appointed by Gov. Mills E. Godwin Jr. as a judge
of the 13th Judicial Circuit. In 1977, he was elected
by the General Assembly for an eight-year term
in that position. During his time on the bench,
Walker also taught trial advocacy courses at UVa
and University of Richmond law school. He was
a member of the Judicial Administration Commit-
tee, the Judicial Council, and the Rules of Court
Committee. Walker was hailed for his dedication
to improving Virginia’s legal system and was
recently recognized for his efforts by the young
lawyers’ section of the Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association. In addition to his judicial activities,
Walker was an elder and deacon at Three Chopt
Presbyterian Church.

1964

Robert John Moye, a partner with Hazel,
Beckhorn & Hanes in Fairfax, Va., died July 12,
1986. After leaving W&L, Moye attended law
school at Duke, where he graduated Order of the
Coif in 1967. After graduation he joined the Ar-
my and held the rank of captain in the Judge Ad-
vocate General’s Corps. In the early 1970s, he
began his work with Hazel, Beckhorn & Hanes in
the real estate department, where he worked until
the time of his death.

W&L 39

|

 

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

Supports Lacrosse Decision

EDITOR:

I will ask you to commit a heresy and publish
a letter from a non-W&L graduate. I have recent-
ly read the July/August Alumni Magazine, which
was given to me by John S. Coleman, ’58, who
is a neighbor here on Water Island.

As a semi-adopted son of the Valley, having
spent four years at Augusta Military Academy,
and as a former lacrosse player, I think I may have
a secure reason to ask you to break the rules.

My own career in lacrosse began in the mid-
40s at Augusta under the great coach Paul Hoover
and continued through college at Delaware under
Hall of Famer Milt Roberts. It spanned a period
of 23 years in prep school, college, and amateur
and summer leagues, which spanned the country
from Claremont in California to the New Jersey
Lacrosse Club. I organized an alumni lacrosse
team at Augusta in 1973 and, aside from our
beating the school’s varsity teams five out of eight
annual games, my last game was a highlight of
sorts. I scored three goals against a recently crown-
ed All-America goalie from the Citadel who had
to substitute for the varsity goalie who was sick.
I was 51 years old at the time.

All of this self-aggrandizement is by way of
saying that lacrosse is easily as much a state of
mind as a sport, and no one I ever played with
or against, of the hundreds of the best among
thousands of the addicts, ever considered himself
a jock in the traditional sense. Among the best,
if not the best, were Roger Brooke, Carl Rip-
plemeier, and Oren Lyons. They were teammates,
although far superior in skill to me. The great
sportswriter Jerry Izenberg once referred to the
‘‘lacrosse junkie”’ in a column commemorating the
100th year of lacrosse at Stevens Tech. He said
that any time a ‘‘lacrosse junkie’’ heard of an
alumni lacrosse game, he would forge a diploma,
pay his own way to the school, and jump out of
the plane demanding to play. He would have an
old Bachrach wooden stick, a crushed leather
helmet, and an ancient pair of black ostrich leather
hightop shoes made by Spotbilt. This is so close
to the literal truth that it is not really that funny.
I did it many times!

Lacrosse is a state of mind to the fan and the
player. It is not the traditional sweaty jock-type
sport. And because it is not traditional in that sense
and never as popular as football or basketball, it
did not draw the crowds. So we played it because
we loved it and will continue to do so. Which
brings me, ever so haltingly, to the article concern-
ing the Generals’ moving from Division I to III.

If it is a matter of awarding financial aid to
a player, then the players—and the school—have
missed the point. The popularity of lacrosse as a
mass audience gathering will never support the
game except at such places as Navy or Maryland
during the playoffs. And as long as football is
preeminent the dollars will never be shared with
us. No one at the University of Delaware ever got
a dime for being a lacrosse player, although Milt
Roberts did get me a job canning oil one year—at
night.

40 W&L

Washington and Lee should play in a division
in which it is competitive. I don’t ever recall
anyone from Hobart expressing unhappiness at be-
ing the division champions. As W&L accounting
professor Jay Cook, a friend of mine, once told
me, ‘“The lacrosse player at Washington and Lee
is the very epitome of what the phrase ‘student-
athlete’ means.”’

Those of us who believe in what this is all
about, who have the passion for the game that we
do, and who think that the only thing that is im-
portant is to have 10 guys on a field any given
Saturday, will support your divisional move. The
rest should go to a school that believes student-
athletes are people whose knuckles kick up dust
as they walk and whose lips move, ever so slowly,
as they read.

CHARLES STARR
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands

Loss of Friend

EDITOR:

Thanks for a splendid September/October
1986 issue.

Those of us who entered Washington and Lee
in the fall of 1949 lost a great friend when Dr.
Robert Mauck died on Dec. 13, 1985. Bob served
as my floor counselor and helped me, a young and
inexperienced freshman, cope with college life.

LEONARD B. RANSON, 753
Cedar Rapids, Iowa

Thanks for Reunion

EDITOR:

On behalf of all Five-Star Generals (those
alumni who have been graduated from W&L for
50 years or more) and their wives, I would like to
thank the Alumni Association, the Alumni Board,
President and Mrs. Wilson, and the entire Univer-
sity community for the many kindnesses extend-
ed to us during the 1986 reunion held during
Homecoming in October. The Class of 1936’s in-
troduction to the Five-Star General classification
was ‘‘red carpet’’ all the way!

Both Friday and Saturday were filled with lec-

tures, exhibits, concerts, athletics, receptions,
tours, and theatre productions (remember the old
Troubadour Theatre?). The Friday afternoon con-
cert featuring acoustic guitarists Eric Heinsohn,
°84, and Roger Day, ’85, on the Colonnade was
particularly enjoyable. Old George and General
Lee must have enjoyed seeing both students and
alumni chatting and sharing a relaxing time
together. There was a real coming together of both
the old and the new on that occasion.

The Five-Star Generals Reunion banquet was
the featured event of the weekend. Graciously
hosted by President and Mrs. Wilson and the
Alumni Board, we were treated to a fine dinner
and remarks from the president on the state of the
University. For those of us who wondered about
parking, climbing steps and hills, and getting
around campus, the Alumni Office had set up a
convenient shuttle service for us. You would have
thought we were at a convention in Chicago!

Of course, it was great to see friends and renew
acquaintances. I guess for many of us that is the
real reason we return—to share fond memories
with good friends. Being a Five-Star General gives
me a good feeling, for I am constantly reminded
that through a visit to Lexington I can be young
again. During the reunion weekend, I was greeted
by Mr. and Mrs. Howard Leake, ’24, with the
comment, ‘‘You’re just a youngster.’’ Howard
said the same thing to me with the same twinkle
in his eye 15 years ago at an alumni meeting in
Birmingham. Al and Lynn Durante had not been
on campus for 50 years and have now made it back
twice in one year.

We were sorry to learn of those who have pass-
ed on and others who are still with us but were
unable to return—George Harrison, Rene
Tallichet, and Stu Miller to name just a few. We
missed you! The good news is that there will be
more Five-Star Generals Reunions, and we hope
to see more good turnouts in the future. When we
think of October 1986, we shall think of Bob
Hope’s theme song Thanks for the Memories.
Thanks to the entire W&L family for providing
us with so many cherished memories.

KENNETH P. LANE, ’36
Kilmarnock, Va.

 

 

 

     

BASKETBALL

Nov. 21-22—Tip-Off Tournament
Dec.

2—Hampden-Sydney
4—Greensboro
6—Lynchburg
8—Bridgewater
26—European

-Jan.3 Trip
Jan.
Jan.
} Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
| Feb.
[ Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb. 27-28—Semifinals & Finals

6—Cortland State

9-10—W&L Invitational

13—UNC-Greensboro
15—Roanoke
17—Maryville
20—Eastern Mennonite
22—Mary Washington
24—Emory University
27—Hampden-Sydney
29—Emory & Henry
31—Lynchburg
5—Emory & Henry
7—Emory University
10—Bridgewater
12—Mary Washington
14—Roanoke
17—Eastern Mennonite
20—Maryville
24—ODAC Quarterfinals

Keep Your Eyes
On The Generals
This Winter

Home
Home
Away
Away
Home

Home
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Away
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away
Home
Away

INDOOR TRACK

Jan. 23-24—Va. Tech Invit.

Jan.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Nov.

Nov
Jan.
Jan.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Mar

Nov.

Nov
Jan.

Jan.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Mar

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

31—VMI Relays
7—Lynchburg
14—Lynchburg Relays

28—ODAC Tournament

MEN’S SWIMMING

12—V.M.I.
.22-23—W&L Invitational
16—Shippensburg State
17—Georgetown/

Frostburg State

23—Johns Hopkins
24—Towson State
30—Shepherd
31—Gettysburg
4—Mary Washington
7—William & Mary
20-21—Tri-State
-22 Championships
. 19-20—NCAA Division III

Championships

WOMEN’S SWIMMING
12—Mary Baldwin
. 22-23—W&L Invitational
14—Sweet Briar/

Randolph-Macon

17—Georgetown/

Frostburg State

23—Johns Hopkins
30—Shepherd
31—Gettysburg
4—Mary Washington
12—Hollins
20-21—Tri-State
-22 Championships
. 12-13—NCAA Division III
-14 Championships

WRESTLING

3—Hampden-Sydney
5-6—Lebanon Valley
10—Virginia Tech
3-4—Maryland Open
10—W&L Quadrangular
17—Lebanon Valley
24—W&L Invitational
31—W&L Triangular

4—Virginia State

7—W&L Triangular
1i1—Longwood
14—Davidson

Feb. 20-21—NCAA Eastern

Regionals

Mar. 5-6-7—NCAA Division III

Tournament

Away
Home
Away
Away
Home

Home
Home
Away

Away
Away
Away
Home
Home
Home
Away

Away

Away

Home
Home

Home

Away
Away
Home
Home
Home
Home

Away

Away

Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away

Home

Away

 

The Alumni Magazine of son Profit Oc ae
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY Os Portas ae

. ee ; PAID ds 4
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Permit No. 6338 ia

Beown Cincinnati, OH |

 

 

os =
Sarbara Je °F
University Libra

 

    

x
=
=

Sy

oe
Care

Your Gift to the Annual Fund |

 

1986 December 1986

 

 

 

Don’t Let the Year End —
Without It

(If you forget, you'll cost yourself a tax deduction this year.)

/

The Annual Fund
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

cae
es
ae

