AGREES SN
RS |.

SS ; oc ‘ .
: : SE
 -
SARS

_.

— —
Sa

ARS

_ .

_

Se RR ARERR SRE RCE NOS
SRR SENS : oo
NS SS ‘

— .
— —

SS ‘ ‘ . RS :
SS RS :
: es : SS SELON
rr —
Se SS SRS ROR — Se
: . x eae Se
Ss Ba SoS S
. Rk AS S : cee
a SS

ee
-

CR ARs $3
= : ‘
s 3 < x S
AN ; . RRC ‘ .

- SA
s s e 3 See : es 8
— —
— —

ee

io

SE . SEAS SEN ay RES ARENA
at ‘ SR . SS
SS SS SO
a S : So Sa co Se :
aS Ra SRS REESE x :
‘ — co SSS ‘ aS :
: co Se ‘ ‘ ‘
SEN SR : Age S :
a : : SS -
: ‘ cae — -
REARS ‘ . S SAS — SS
— co —
= SN oe oS
. RSS
eS sak aS

Se SARS
— oO —
SERN ‘ S SORA SES
SERS SS
Ss ° x SNA os
a
SE S : . ‘
: SS SRR SES ‘
REE RRR SRNR SERN SER SRRSRRSS ‘ 3
RRR aRE RRR SS SERRE
SERRANe RRS Ree uaNS SS S oS S
SARS SAS ORAS SES SS SEN 3S S :
aS Sek ‘ LES SRS : SS ‘
SRNR SEs 3 eS
Ree SS SC x eS Se SRS MS : a S
SS ae Ss SS es
cS ce oa ‘
oS os oe SS :
ERENCES SR

Sos <
SRS :
SO SO
CSG
_

SER SS
Ss
Ses

es —
a ARES S 3 .
BS SO : : ‘
: oS oS aS oo
: Se SS —
_ . . _
“ ‘ SAR RS Se
: = SN
‘ ae cS NS
a So ae ss
S ‘ QUANG AOA
co
oS LS SPEARO RNS
SRS

Se oS
- ‘ : Sees
_ _
< Oo < .
et 5 ok SK
SS SS Se x -
Sa ‘ . < : SA ‘ - .
SR : SS SOs <

x
SEN
ae
—
SS
x
SENS Aa s
SS <<
RR
RS
Se

SRS a
aS a a :

SS SS
Se es SS — ‘
oo — oO
co a oo — -
ee SS Se —

ARERR SSR SAN Ss : So
. co SS Se
S — ee
a : & —
oo : Re eS
So Ss
co oe
SRS x Ss :
— —

— .
: 5 x a :

S

Zs ee

. —
:

SRE
x SS ‘ :
& aS S :
x S
S See

SS
SES
aN
x
‘
REN
Ss

. : .
RSE

a NS Mae a
: PEARCE :

: SS .

‘ Se SS SS cS : —
_— =
ok S SS SEs SS : os SS : SS

Ree SS SASSO SUAS ANA ERR ENANENS s
: : . SARA
: BASRA
— SES
. .
‘ Ee So
SO
© Sy

%

:

SE

SEAGER SRE

a SS SS . a e
oe

-

x
SERS
AGRE eS
a So S SS
So ‘ XS

Ry

oS
RO Sas xy
SSE ‘
<< .k —.
5 RSE RR < S
co :
SS :
<
‘ .
S RS Sk -
SO . Se
ce Se .
4 So :
x SRS <
SO SE
COS SS
SRE .
SRS S
SAGAS .
RN
s SS
RAR ARNE

es
cs
— TS
aS —
‘ EN
—
Se
ee
SS <
SO
—

Se
Se
Sue

SES
SS

SS

Se
: Sk Sn
oo
re —
— —
oo
S SS Le
SS
CO
ee

a
SASS
REESE
SEES
SS
aS a
Sea
Sune

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 59, Number 1, January 1984

Frank A. Parsons, 754 ......... 0.0... ccc eee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ..................... Associate Editor
Robert Fure ...................0-. Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter ...... 0.0... ccc eee eee ee Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas ..................... Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73..................2.. Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Message from Your Alumni President......... 1
Warner’s Letter Opposing Coeducation........ 2
Vlahoplus Is Rhodes Scholar.................. 4
The Admissions Race Is On.................. 5
The Revival of Sigma Nu.................... 16
Van Leer Chocolate Makers.................. 19
WE&L Gazette....... 0. cee ee ee eee re
Fancy Dress Invitation.................0e000- 31
Fall Athletic Roundup....................... 32
Chapter News......... 0... ccc cece ee eee eee 34
Distinguished Alumnus Award Call............ 38
Class NoteS..............00cs 0000 bo 55 39
In Memofiam...:............+00008eep ee. ee 46
And furthermore . . . Letters to the Editor..... 48

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas.

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Allcommunications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 50, Baltimore, Md.
Ow EN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt JRr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM McCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
Henry Nortserc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
RIcE M. TILLEY JR., ’58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: University Photographer W. Patrick Hine-
ly, 73, put one of the major stories of the January magazine
into perspective with this photograph of the sign that greets pro-
spective Washington and Lee students. Admissions is a brand
new ball game for colleges and universities throughout the
country. W&L’s game plan is outlined starting on page 5.

 

 

 

 

tion eens a has beet with us now for rough )

 

  
    
 
  
 
  
     

meeting | how to undertake a new study of the oc —

/ September, it kn ew ‘that oeducs Ca stion meé
active issue in the coming -months. Then, at the Leac

ship: Conference i in early October, the possibility
| ed cand idly me and with en wilkon, “

you know without delay how the siieai will address the

_ Directors. [am receiving verbal and written thoughts | on

ing the February meeting of the Board of Trustees to let

.

issue. The March issue of the Magazine can be expected _
to provide further details of the study process the Board ©
will pursue. Further, I have been assured bythe Rectorof
the Board, Jim Ballengee, that a written survey covering
all alumni will definitely bea part of any study t the Board .
makes. — | os
In the meantime, I have established an ex : officio —
committee of all past presidents of the Alumni Board of

 

 

coeducation from this distinguished group. At the
February Trustees’ meeting, I plan to present the
thoughts of the ex officio committee along with expres- —
sion of opinion I have requested and received from the _

 

 

 

   
   

Ke ror a . oh have i ofy your

 
   
      
 
   
 

rs ta ty on its Board of Trustees
Ss mi = benefactors. You

- and who has t be
acersiaeea) rm

: that a letter will bes sent to alla alun asi ni immediate:

 

 

| Trustees will be also be prepared of all other letters which
| have been addresse
ni i Board regularly does, I will attend the February |

_ before the University—is regularly and fully informed

esent members of the Alumni Board. A record for the —

 

 

d to me. As the president of the Alum-

  

meeting of the Trustees.
Thisis a particularly importanttimeinthehistoryof
r great school. It is incumbent o on orn of us to a :

 

 

the ultimate renee oa oon vd oe _ aacrt seni a

about alumni opinion and recommendations. We might —
be reminded that ” but two iomemibers of the Board of —

 

 
 
 
 

; — LA. Rosas oI 6 52 ~
President =
| Alumni Board of Directors

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jack Warner speaking at dedication of Warner Center in 1977.

 

Jack Warner’s
Letter
On Coeducation

‘I am totally against coeducation for W&L
now and in the near future?

Dear Peter:

I’m writing you, the President of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., because of my concern about the University.
In addition, copies are being sent to Alumni Chapter
Presidents, other alumni and friends of the University.

The Board of Trustees, as you probably know, is active-
ly considering making W&L a coeducational institution.

It is my understanding some portion of the administra-
tion and faculty strongly favor such a move.

The major problems this drastic change would sup-
posedly solve are:

]. Future student enrollment levels (eliminating the need

for retrenchment or reduction in candidate quality).

2. Excessive student misbehavior now being experienc-

ed. (Weekday partying, heavy drinking, use of drugs.)

It is also felt by some of the administration and faculty
that coeducation would improve the opportunity for
academic achievement.

   

cree

Coeducation for Washington and Lee is a highly con-
troversial possibility that merits serious thought and
response to the Board of Trustees from individual alumni
and friends of the University. It is just too important a mat-
ter for the 25 members of the Board to decide without input
from this overall group.

As an alumnus, a recently resigned member of the
Board of Trustees, and now a trustee emeritus, J am totally
against coeducation for W&L now and in the near future. I
was on the Board when the matter was tabled in 1976. Since
that time, nothing new has transpired that would favor such
a change.

Washington and Lee University represents an especially
fine Southern institution that has been built over nearly
two and one-half centuries. It has been guided through the
years by strong Board leadership, responsible administra-
tions and an outstanding faculty that has withstood wars,
depression and prosperity without yielding to momentary
difficult periods. The result is a school with a dominant
character, excellent tradition and recognized high prin-
ciples. It is different from other schools, and that difference
will continue to make it flourish.

In 1976, when coeducation was last considered, applica-
tions for enrollment were at the 1,300 level. This was down
by roughly 100 from 1966.

The Board was then informed of the projections for the
future; ‘a leveling off of college candidates in the late 70’s
and a decline to occur in the 1980’s”’ That year, 1976, the
Board tabled the coeducational issue, citing ‘“considera-
tions of size, curriculum and traditional character” as fac-
tors influencing its decision.

In 1983, I understand, applications for enrollment total-
ed more than 1,560, well over the 1,300 level in 1976 and
much greater than the lower count experienced in the late
1970’s.

As I have previously stated, to my knowledge, nothing
new has been introduced that wasn’t known in 1976, and
yet this proposal is again before the Board.

We surely ought to be able to continue our strong
Washington and Lee posture and enroll 400 or so students
annually. The overall potential is large.

There are those who point to the number of students
enrolled, as a percentage of those offered admission, as be-
ing quite low.

This reduction in potential student acceptance is open
to question. The administration identifies coeducation as
the reason for the majority declining to enroll based on
responses to their questionnaire. From past business ex-
perience, I’m very gun-shy of questionnaires. Those respon-
ding generally choose the easiest, least controversial answer
in an attempt to “‘help” or rid themselves of a task as
quickly and quietly as possible.

I also recall that in 1976 about 50% of admitted
students also chose to go elsewhere and responded that
coeducation was the reason for their choice. So, again, in
this interval of time, nothing has changed.

I would question the background information provided
potential students before coeducation is accepted as the

 

 

 

_ major reason for enrolling el: se
overall college environment in the Valley? Did anissions
make a pointed effort to establish the merits of t * the
and its position related to all the schools in th 2 area? Di

they point out the W&L differenc e?

Now our difference has been given outstanding acclaim
by top educators. In the November 28, 1983, issue of US.
News & World Report, Washington and Lee rated highest
of comprehensive universities east «
offering a liberal arts prograr

program. It was named to thi
presidents in the East—47.6

 

     
  

 

 

        
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 

to curb these situations
by W&L’s student body can
administration’ Ss strong
Board) than by coeducatic
Over the past few week: I

educators and trustees of large private and state institu- .
tions. They are by and . ge shi cked that coeducation |

| would be considered 3 |

 

that a cannot 7

| privately endowed. They say that can’t afford to
ly (tuition, grants or scholarships). The emaaaripe! is too
large and too well established. _ Safin
My home for a good number of ye yea oars has bee
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. It happens to be the location of
University of Alabama. Since I am somewhat active in this
university, I can heartily support the above opinions ex- a
pressed by those m more dir ec ly associated with large
schools. | . -

 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

tunities alongside Wal. ‘The selection v was ss easily made,
t centered (I now realize) on the individuality of the
"person versus ‘submet ging oneself within a crowd. ©
Well, cascetahs tt ines : ea

 

 

 

eee tee

 

where. Were they aware of the -
in both high seared and colle; “a I know most of them from.

| don’t even have a band.

7 collegi¢
hools, state funded or oe

V&L can very strong place”
challenge their “product” socially, athletically or financial-

' : believe the differences have r re- 7

mained very pronounced. In speaking with female students |

 

  

Mary Baldwin. Moreover, ae very candidates a would
want are those who now ‘choose these four girls’ schools in —

the Valley. There are others who obviously prefer the larger |
schools where the activity may center about a bigger stage.
The “baton twirlers” certainly won’t come to W&L. We |

 
 
 
 

We should all recognize: t 1 Shenandoah Valley offers a.
bead of of college life that is wo derfully unique. This special

 
 

of all the schools z al
cl a ange now. ; Why tamper with .

 

7 n faculty cases didn’t

improved acadeinic a
by acreative and deman-
yng administration, teaching _
nd are currently attending — |

  

/ “For st over 230 years o our track record has been excellent.

- Harvard’s David Riesman, emeritus professor of social _
science, in the US. News & World Report on “Rating the 7
Colleges” aptly captured W&L’s essence when he noted, — |

“It’s Just; a very strong place—at 0 once *e scholarly ell

 
 

I thi nk by their selection America’ S university presidents
have made the case for remaining what wea are now— ‘just a

 

In conclusion, I feel you and all to whom I have sent |
copies of this letter should give the matter serious thought.

It’s strongly recommended eve! ryone. interested exPIESS f their
_ views (pro or con) to the 25 membs
_ Trustees. After all, it’s this group of 2 25 that is $ going to
| make the a

 

S of the Board of |

 

“Very erly yours,

    

R, ’41

 

Gulf irate Paper Corp.

 

> reference is to a news item in ora 37,1983, is , issue of The
ca News reporting sona a study that showed that boys who a are

 
 
   

girls 13tol,

 

 

 

 

WA&L's 13th Rhodes Scholar

 

John Vlahoplus, ’83, Joins the Select Group of Winners

John C. Vlahoplus, a 1983 graduate of
Washington and Lee, has become the
University’s 13th Rhodes Scholar.

Vlahoplus was one of 32 students from
throughout the nation awarded the
prestigious Rhodes Scholarships in
December for two to three years’ study at
Oxford University in England.

A native of Columbia, S.C., Vlahoplus
is currently a first-year student at the Har-
vard Law School.

Rhodes Scholars are chosen on a
regional basis in the United States. The can-
didates are judged on intellectual achieve-
ment, character, leadership, and physical
vigor.

Vlahoplus applied for the Rhodes from
his home state of South Carolina and was
one of the four winners from the Southern
district. Washington and Lee senior
Timothy Valliere, tri-captain of the
Generals’ wrestling team, was among the
12 finalists interviewed in the Southern
district.

An economics major as a W&L
undergraduate, Vlahoplus will study inter-
national law at Oxford. He will begin his
studies next October and plans to return to
Harvard Law School after completing two
years at Oxford.

““My plans are to receive the M.A. in
jurisprudence from Oxford and then to
return to Harvard for one year and receive
my J.D. from Harvard;’ Vlahoplus said
after learning of the award.

Vlahoplus received the bachelor of arts
degree summa cum laude from W&L last
June with a perfect 4.0 grade point average.
He was one of three valedictorians honored
during W&L’s commencement exercises.

He originally applied for the Rhodes
while a senior at W&L and was unsuc-
cessful. He decided to try a second time
“partly because of the competitive nature
of the Rhodes process but primarily
because of my desire to learn about law and
about international trade from a European
standpoint?’

Vlahoplus said that having gone
through the Rhodes competition a year ago
was undoubtedly beneficial in his quest this
year.

“I felt a little more comfortable in the var-
ious situations;’ said Vlahoplus. “Basically,

4

 

the questions asked in the interviews this
year were very similar to the questions I was
asked a year ago. I found the first year that
sO many credentials are similar that it comes
down to how much you care and why you
want to fight the world’s fight?’

Vlahoplus’ essay dealt with interna-
tional trade and his belief that freeing up
trade barriers will create mutual economic
interests which, in turn, will improve rela-
tionships between the peoples of the world.

“With a direct pecuniary interest in a
country there is bound to come a fairly strong
desire not to shoot up a country in which you
have such an interest?’ Vlahoplus said.

Vlahoplus believes that his participation
in the Harvard defenders program was a
valuable addition to his background for the
Rhodes competition, but “the values and
the background that I had for this competi-
tion were all established while I was at
Washington and Lee. My application in-
volved very little updating?’

At W&L, Vlahoplus was Phi Beta Kappa
and was president of the University’s
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, the na-
tional leadership fraternity.

He received several major awards while

 

Rhodes Scholar John Vlahoplus is currently a first-year law student at Harvard.

at W&L, including the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Medallion, which is awarded by the
W&L faculty to the graduating senior who
excels ‘‘in high ideals of living, spiritual
qualities, and generous disinterested service
to others;’ and the Edward Lee Pinney Prize
for the student who demonstrates extraor-
dinary commitment both to personal
scholarship and to the nurturing of intellec-
tual life at W&L.

The winner of a Harry S Truman
Scholarship while an undergraduate,
Vlahoplus was active on the Student
Recruitment Committee and in the Young
Democrats and was a representative to the
student government during his junior and
senior years.

Prior to Vlahoplus, the last W&L
Rhodes Scholar was Edward A. Johnson in
1981. Other W&L Rhodes Scholars are
Mark A. Bradley (1977), Ralph H. Smith
(1973), Marvin C. (Swede) Henberg (1971),
Timothy A. Vanderver Jr. (1965), John B.
McLin (1960), Robert O. Paxton (1954),
Edgar F. Shannon Jr. (1947), Clarence
Pendleton Lee Jr. (1933), Samuel A.
McCain (1927), Fitzgerald Flournoy (1922),
and Francis Pickens Miller (1919).

 

‘Andin the interim, t
that nous Washington and Lee will spend
0 dents. est

 

Admissions Race

 

The admissions staff (from left) William Hartog; Dan Murphy, ’73; Van Pate,
’71; Bennett Ross, ’83; and, Michael Hallman are pictured behind a table fill-
ed with University publications for prospective students.

names, addresses, and vital statistics of high school juniors.
About 5,000 of those names have been identified by the
University from letters of inquiry and from
recommendations.

Then there are the 62,000 other names currently found
on a microchip or two in a Princeton, N.J., computer bank.
On April 1 (purely a coincidental date), that computer at
the Educational Testing Service in Princeton will spew
forth those 62,000 names. Two days later, 62,000 packets of
material extolling the virtues of the Washington and Lee
educational experience will go in the mail.

The process of finding the 360-member Class of ’89 will
have begun in earnest.

6

 

In the months that follow about 11,000 out of those in-
itial 62,000 high school juniors will have responded and
asked for more information. Those 11,000, combined with
the 5,000 juniors the University has identified, create the
prospect pool of 16,000. The chase is on.

From the May of their junior year through January of
their senior year, these 16,000 prospects will receive a total
of about 112,000 separate pieces of correspondence from
Lexington. Most will be contacted personally by University
officials and alumni. Some will have been encouraged to
visit the campus. All will be invited, encouraged actually, to
apply.

Of those 16,000 prospects, somewhere between 1,500
and 1,600 will apply for admission. Of those who apply,
between 700 and 900 will be offered admission. Of those
offered admission, about 360 will choose to attend.

In early September of 1985, the Class of 1989 will arrive
in Lexington. The chase will be over. The process will have
ended. For that class, at least. In truth, the process never
ends. 7

* * *

None of this used to happen. Time was, the function of
an admissions office at a highly regarded private college such
as Washington and Lee was primarily that of gatekeeper.

Back then, admissions directors at W&L and elsewhere
often wore more than one hat, spending only part of their
time keeping track of a steady, reliable flow of qualified
students who showed up on the University’s doorstep each
year and requested admission.

Times have changed.

Seven years ago Washington and Lee’s office of admis-
sions fell within the framework of student affairs, even
sharing office space with the Dean of Students. The vast
majority of admissions-related work was handled by in-
dividuals who split their time between admissions and
other responsibilities such as teaching, counseling, and
financial aid. The total operating budget was approximate-
ly $75,000.

Today Washington and Lee’s office of admissions has
an annual budget of more than $340,000 and employs four
full-time and three part-time professionals who will, among
many other things, log literally hundreds of thousands of
miles each fall to visit prospects from coast to coast.

Today the admissions effort more nearly resembles the
sort of marketing effort associated with major
corporations.

There is direct mail. And market segmentation. There is
computerized word processing. And market positioning
studies.

A headline in The New York Times Magazine last

$

ADMISSIONS
INFORMATION

SECOND FLOOR

 

 

Bisnis

ADMISSIONS TRENDS— 1950-1983

Freshman Admissions Statistics

SAT Scores

 

Hartog examines one of the computer lists that are
updated almost daily as prospective students are
added to the pool or changed from prospects to
applicants. ~

353
1 380
1979 370

1980 13 342
1981 1 373
1982 1 369 1950, when entering classes no longer were affected

This table tracks the admissions “numbers” from

by World War II veteran enrollments, through the
present freshman class.

 

1983 1,562 89 a/ 374

*First year College Board tests were required.
** Math SAT mean scores not available before 1958.

 

Admissions Race

spring put the situation in perspective. Over a story about
current admissions efforts at the nation’s colleges was ban-
nered: “Selling College In a Buyer’s Market?’

Indeed, times have changed.

* * *

“Back in the 1950s and 1960s, the role of the admissions
director was much like a registrar’s function?’ says William
Hartog, who has directed Washington and Lee’s admissions
effort since 1978. ‘‘By the early 1970s the role began to
evolve more rapidly into one of a marketing manager.

“‘What you found along the way was that a lot of col-
leges were increasing staffs in order to visit more schools
and reach more prospective students nationally. And mid-
way through the 1970s direct mail campaigns began to
creep into the picture.

“Now as the numbers in the available pool continue to
decline, as more and more colleges have adopted these ag-
gressive admissions postures, there has been a flattening
out. The admissions director today can’t rely on some of
the traditional methods of reaching students. The school
visit is not as productive as it used to be. It is becoming pro-

    

Admissions counselor Ross interviews a prospective
Student during a campus visit.

The fifteen states displayed in this table customarily

provide from 80 to 85 percent of W&L’s entering
classes. The projections for 1992 are based upon
demographic predictions compiled by the National
Center for Educational Statistics. The projections
assume that W&L will be able to maintain the same
“market share” of the applicant pool that it has ex-
perienced for the entering classes of 1978-82.

8

hibitively expensive to travel throughout the country and
increasingly difficult to reach students when you are
visiting schools.

“So the role of the admissions director in the next 10 to
12 years is rapidly going to become a managerial function
in that the admissions office will oversee a large informa-
tion system that will be mainly composed of direct mail
and will employ alumni to a much greater extent than in the
past?’

To put those observations in perspective: the U.S. Cen-
sus Bureau reports that the number of 18-year-olds in this
country will drop from a peak of 4.3 million in 1979 to 3.2
million by 1992. The baby boom of the 1960s is giving way
to the baby bust of the 70s and 80s. Moreover, the number
of 18-year-olds does not equal the number of high school
graduates. Since 1979 there has already been a seven per-
cent drop in the number of high school graduates in the
country. Students taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT)
for college admission have decreased by three percent over
the past two years. Clearly, the applicant pool is getting
shallower. American colleges and universities are entering

16)
63 (47)
309 (228)

 

  

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
         
  

name costs $13 ae 4 Louie Sn Gee af :

Part oft those 62, 0001 names were students who had 1 scored
ath ined ort the

  

 
 
 
 
 

more than 600 on both the ver
PSAT. The other part of the 6: 62,00 10
600 on Licied sections of the test.
gton. Two day later packets of material are mailed to
)students. With justifiable pride, Hartog notes |
ton and Lee is is one cof t the first colleges. |

 

 
 
  
 
   
 
  
     

d ch packet i includes : a letter from the admissions

a fact broc hure, and a return postcard with which the
further information. Out of 62,000 pro-

rh ial, about u, = return oe

 
 

And the f fo | lear ‘ er ip

      

e i - e

rtunities in t

     

2 ded d field of study

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

|dmissions Race ee |
8} says Hartog.
| of course. You can
| ean “Yo as much v valuable information as possible |

 

id bombarding the pros
id we eall have to uneane is that the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

"method t to our madness” says sH
tions on past application flow and

  

         

  
  
  
  
  
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

O is salong-a two
ns s officials are panned °

     
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

cent of them had visited the campus,’ Hartog says. —
“Whether by mail or in a secondary sch ho or r dur-
ing an on-campus interview, the message W&L's ad
officers try to drive home i is that Was
apart from other universities in three
“First and foremost, we ¢ emp
breadth of our academic opp 01
size. We can talk on the o on
population of 1 300 wit
small colleges offer,”
other pang a yut th

    
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

 

 

=

_tiums of colleges that have vejoined forces for admissions |
efforts. Those three : are;

 

_ —the Southern Consortium on College Admissions:

| Agnes Scott, Davidson, Duke, Emory, Furman, Hollins,

Rice, Rollins, Southern Methodist, Southwestern at

Memphis, Stetson, | Tex AS. Christian, Trinity (Tex.),

Tulane, Miami (Fla.), Richmond, the University of the
South, Vanderbilt, Wake Forest, and W&L.

—the “Southern Six”: Duke, Deraepe. Y Vanderbilt,

 
  

Se

       
   

evening meetings for ee students and I their
; parents and sponsor funeheons for Secondary » school
ce counselors a "

 

 

 

 

 

| becomes more and more important?’

- tions and find the practice most valuable the:

becomes a matter oe riding each other’ s coattails a bit. t 7

 

fact that we offer 800 courses in 31 m majors. >
“We tell students W&L offers the best of b both worlds—
opportunities of a large schoo ol with the. per: C malized en-
vironment of a small one. - ee :
“Second, we talk about the Honor r Syste -m and how i in- |
tegral a part of the University it is, a cornerstone of life
here. We say that at W&L the students prosper in a high y

   

 

competitive academic environment without a lot of the | |

back-biting and without a lot of the exter nal complications
that are found at other universities.
“And recently, at least in the last 10. or 12 years, ¥ we can

talk about our all-maleness as being one of our unique ©

e

ities. We talk quite openly about the fact that we are
mucha single sc sex e university | pe weer Monday and Fri-

       

   

 

   

hiitvely expensive and we would have 1

     
   

 

 

ly ¢ = turn ¢ out: ” ” says Harte.

fective than visiting the school uti the day. You not ;
only have the student’s undivided attention when heisn’t |
| between classes, but his parents come with him. Ascosts _
and options increase, getting the parents interested 7

 

Although there i is an admitted danger that the prac-
tice will, as one admissions official | suggests,
“homogenize our. - products}? the colleges that travel —
together in these groups seldom share « )

     
    

om their respective campuses they travel. |
- ee the] pressures that aaa under te t ro yd

 

 

 

Admissions Race

day but we describe ourselves as being very much a
coeducated university on weekends, noting that Lexington
is the focal point for social life in this part of the valley and
that because of the surrounding women’s colleges there are
as many social opportunities here as anywhere else.

‘Those are the three points we emphasize. After that we
dwell on individual areas of interest to the student?’

Phase Two ends in January when the prospects are
preparing to file their applications. The deadline for apply-
ing to W&L this year is February 1. Needless to say, the
weeks and months before that February 1 deadline are tense
ones in the admissions office. Mailmen enter the office at
their own risk since the number of applications arriving in
each day’s mail is monitored with great zeal.

Once the conversion has been effected and prospect
becomes applicant, Phase Three takes over. This is truly the
“admissions” phase. Of the 1,500 or so who apply, slightly
more than half will actually be offered admission. Who are
those 800? And why?

“We set out with the goal of enrolling a well-rounded
class instead of a class of well-rounded individuals?’ ex-
plains Hartog. ‘Those two are not mutually exclusive. But
we're trying to assemble a class which represents the
strongest that there is in various areas”’

Fach of the 1,500 applicants is represented by a separate
file containing the personal application, the standardized
test scores, the secondary school record, and letters of
recommendation.

 

 

James Farrar directs the Alumni-Admissions Program.

Washington and Lee was among the first colleges to
institute a formal program by which alumni assist in the
admissions process. Since it was established in 1978-79
under the direction of James D. Farrar, the Alumni-
Admissions Program has been an invaluable asset.

At present, there are A-AP committees in 62 cities in
32 states.

The committees identify prospective students from
their areas to be added to the prospect pool. The admis-
sions office provides the committees with computer
printouts listing the prospects from the committees’
areas. As the prospects are identified, members of the A-
AP committee contact the students to talk about
Washington and Lee.

As Farrar notes: “Our alumni are Washington and

 

W&L's Alumni-Admissions Program

Lee to their communities, to the schools in those com-
munities, to the students there, and to the public. The
personal contact that they make with the students can be
more influential than all the catalogues and brochures
we mail to them,’

Occasionally members of A-AP committees repre-
sent the University at college nights in their area when a
W&L admissions official is unable to attend.

As the process unfolds and prospects turn into ap-
plicants, the A-AP committees become even more impor-
tant. Committees sponsor gatherings for applicants and,
later, for students who are accepted and their parents.
Having an alumnus of the University answer questions
and provide personal insights about the W&L experience
can, as Farrar notes, be crucial in affecting the student’s
choice of a college.

Throughout the year, Farrar provides the committee
chairmen with updated information about the admis-
sions process. Committees are provided with periodic
updates that deal not only with the progress of the admis-
sions effort but provide valuable background informa-
tion on the University’s programs.

“Our admissions officers can visit a specific area of
the country only once a year, at best?’ says Farrar. ‘““The
rest of the year, it is our alumni who keep the University
visible to prospective students. Their knowledge of the
local area and their contacts in that area add enormously
to the effectiveness of our efforts?’

 

12

 

 

    

 

ween a student receiving a letter of acceptance -
r of rejection from Washington and Lee? —
, is the daily record from the secon-

   
 

   

attention to the kinds of |
seyond the daily record cc
the SAT and the various netic ie
equal weight in the proc 3
must submit achievement

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 

blem is that they are acon
comparisons—comparisons | fi
missions efforts id com]

    

>

mendations from secon-
cular involve-.

 

         

 

 

 

 

       

  

 

“In the final analysis’ we try to attract a class that will ©
ent all of the constituencies, all of the special interest
groups, that one would expect to find on any college cam-
pus. And we're trying to find the best in each of those ~
categories?

In late Marc, the ster 5 80 out. Students who are ac-
cepted are invited to er

 

        
  
 
  

“At this point in the L rthaci is little oe
staff c can n doy says Hartog. ° alter all, we've met with

     

   

 

 

Admissions Race

This year, Hartog is considering adding an element to
Phase Four—a telethon from the campus in which current
students answer questions that the accepted applicants may
have.

“I have a problem with that because I wonder if it isn’t
overkill?’ says Hartog. “Will a telephone call on top of
everything else be too much? We're not sure?’

The yield is crucial. Like other colleges, Washington
and Lee’s yield has gone up and down. Last year it was
down at W&L as it was virtually everywhere else. Of those
offered admission to W&L, 41 percent choose to attend.

‘“‘Last year was a very difficult year for many, many
private universities. There were fewer students applying to
more colleges, thus prompting schools to accept a greater
percentage of their applicant pools;’ says Hartog. “The ad-
missions game relies very much on positioning. There are
schools the public perceives to be of higher prestige than
Washington and Lee. Fortunately, there are many, many
more that are beneath Washington and Lee on this ladder.

‘‘When schools above us on the ladder accept greater
percentages of their applicant pools, there is a trickle-down
effect?’

The 1983 admissions picture was further clouded by the
fact that some major universities, Harvard for one, went to
their waiting lists—a reserve of applicants. That caused a
domino effect. Students who have been accepted and plan-
ned to attend W&L but were on the waiting lists of other
schools wound up being taken off those waiting lists and,
hence, making a last minute decision not to attend W&L.

Consequently, W&L was forced to go to its waiting list.

‘“‘Last year we went out with 800 offers of admission
and wait-listed an additional 200. Of those 200 who were
initially wait-listed, 92 returned the postcard saying they
wished to remain on our waiting list}? says Hartog. ““By
summer’s end, we had taken all 92 of those students.

“It is too early to tell about those who entered from the
waiting list, but they are students who were somewhat
weaker academically, though still qualified?’

Hartog’s reservations about the waiting list students
were borne out during the first term when those freshmen
who had come from the waiting list had an average grade
point average of 1.912 compared with the others in the class
who averaged 2.379.

Without question, the demographics are going to ex-
acerbate this situation in the years ahead. The W&L admis-
sions office has done a demographic study that concludes
that if the University can hold its present position and that
if the economy and federal financial aid picture remain
clear and that if the University expects to enroll a class in
1992 that is academically comparable to 1982, then that

14

 

The Admissions staff spends hours deliberating on the applicants.

class will number no more than 265—28 percent smaller
than the class that enrolled in 1982.

Given that those demographics are, as one educator
puts it, ‘‘pretty inexorable;’ what is going to make the dif-
ference? What can be done in the years ahead to offset the
situation?

Financial aid is unquestionably of the utmost impor-
tance. One of the major additions to the admissions pro-
cess in recent years is the program of Honor
Scholarships—that is, scholarships given to students on the
basis of their academic accomplishments rather than finan-
cial need. Each spring the top 50 candidates for W&L's
Honor Scholarships are brought to the W&L campus for
two days of interviews and informal meetings with students
and faculty. These Honor Scholarship days cost approx-
imately $25,000 each year.

“Certainly Honor Scholarships have become a major
component in our overall effort. We now offer 12 Honor
Scholarship programs and participate in the National Merit
Scholarship program to a great extent;’ says Hartog. “I
don’t think there is any question we will see more and more
schools employ these no-need scholarships in efforts to
drive up the applicant pool.

“But as important as those are, equally important is the
availability of financial aid across the board. That is an
area we have improved dramatically in the last three or four
years. Although we always said we were able to meet the
financial need of every student who was offered admission
who possessed need, that was only about 18 or 19 percent
of our entering class in 1978 while many schools with which
we competed for students were offering aid to 35 or 40 per-
cent of their enrolling classes.

‘““We have gradually increased the percentage from 18 or

 

   
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

 

16,000 p prospects nationally and only 1,561 of them filed ap-
plications. We know that a lot of students dismissed us im-_
mediately because of our single sex status?”

_ Each year the admissions office asks students who have

en admitted to W&L but choose not to attend to com-

tea questionnaire. Among other items on that question-
e is the question: ‘What factors most influenced your
ion not to attend Washington and Lee?” The student ©
en the o opportunity to write in three factors. Of the 371

so in 19 78 to 29 percent this past September. * That w
become more and more important?” | oe

Hand in hand with the need to maintain andi inc
the financial aid coffers i is a plan called “net costin
Hartog expects to institute soon. The idea of “net (
is to prevent prospective : students from being scare od
by the University’s pric e tag before nah have i inv re hae |
financial aid oppor unities. —

 

Hartog. “J never ‘wou 1 ee tl 1 - 1 CC ents who returned questionnaries in 1982, 34 percent
prehensive cos id be inexpensive. Bu | W&L’s all-male status a major reason for not attend-_
“pared with ot! ate 7eTs: t is oe Ar other 26 percent. listed the University location

e ent cited the cost. |
factor is espec ally difficult since the three
ston and Lee dost the most

 
 
  
  

 

  
     
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
  
 

 

enroll. But it c in be ee _— NV lliam
The “net c co t” ” plan would involve giving: a a pros D |
with fin, n 2 tead of looking at that $9,506 which is ron the d oard and
prehen alogue, a student would b the c I year, and
that, |
$4,0¢
work
the fi
of alun effo \ T nive _ _ University, or 1M. LT. in two years.
sity’s alumni 1a “We do know that a small number of students turn
years: under the ramhas  §=_ away from W&L because of their academic interests?’ says _

 

 

- committees in 62 ci d | rua a Hartog. “We <
model by many coll yusethis
valuable resource. a
“Tn the future, alumni will
“we possess to reach students;’
Those are general areas. What |
What, for instance, are the major 1 reasons t]
not choose either to ee or, ¢ once e accepted, :
W&L? |
“Undoubtedly the one variable that drives
away is that we are an all-male college” says Har
in the 50s and 60s when there were many, many single SeX
was an understandable acceptance. In f ct, oT /
guess that very few students came to | oo ships are e being instituted every when. A few v colleges,

re trying to remedy the misunderstanding i in
area. What is difficult to measure is how —

cations we will have once we institute a

ce e major” |

 

. si ns oh that battle a are appearing ‘everywhere. Some |
colleges—Smith, Wellesley, and St. Lawrence, to name
- three—have announced se will reduce the size eof future

     
  
   
   

 

 

   
 

    

would |
Wash e because it was a men’s college. 1 _ Washington and Lee included, have begun traveling te to.
believe ere because they were awareofthe Europe to visit prospective students. a
academic re n, of the prestige, of the record of = | _ “We're looking very carefully at any number of new = = a

100, of ¢ our alumni a natioeny, - menos Says Horiee “One ne (

   
  
 

we have ibecome
is something st stud

 

 

by Robert Fure

> New

The Fall and Rise of a W&L Fraternity: Hope for the Future?

Things hadn't always been this way, but
even when they got bad, real bad, the
University stood ready to assist fraternities.

Longer than anyone could remember,
fraternities had been a part of W&L. While
not indispensible to the main business of
the University, fraternities had always prov-
ed to be useful to the University communi-
ty. As a reliable source of support for many
campus activities, as organizations for the
development of campus leadership, and, of
course, as convenient social outlets, frater-
nities had long served a vital function to
student life at W&L.

And to the present day, the University
has taken at times extraordinary measures
to help keep its fraternity system intact.
Recently, in response to alumni efforts,
WE&L provided crucial assistance in reviving
defunct chapters of Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Sigma, and Sigma Nu. In 1982, Chi Psi
established a chapter at W&L, but not
before the University could help arrange the
purchase and renovation of the old Ann
Smith School as the fraternity’s residence.

But there were times—indeed, there are
times—when...

During the early and mid 1970’s, W&L
had witnessed a precipitous decline in its
fraternity system. Six national fraternities
shivered and collapsed—three of them
without reviving. By 1977 nearly all of the
remaining fraternity houses, some of them
among the most imposing residential
structures in Lexington, had sunk into
general disrepair.

The University community grew increas-
ingly alarmed over the situation. Faculty,
students, and townspeople began to speak
out openly against fraternities. Alumni
returning to the University for reunions
despaired of the condition of their former
residences.

Gone were the housemothers and the
quaint civility of a young man’s domestic
education. The genteel luxury of fraternity
“homes” had given way to an era of col-
legiate insurrection and bohemian squalor.
Mere shells of their former selves, the
houses on faternity row had become little
more than unkempt party pavilions. A few
had become veritable slums.

Clearly something had to be done. The

16

PERI ERE g

 

 

 

ee

 

 

ATELIER IRS: 95) gg #3

$6 8 pees

 

The reconstituted charter of the bda chapter of Sigma Nu was a symbol of achievement for the frater-

nity’s members when the fraternity was reestablished at W&L.

Alumni Board of Directors formed a com-
mittee to examine and report on “‘the frater-
nity problem?’ The University Council, the
central committee of faculty, students, and
administrators responsible for overseeing
University life, drafted a policy statement
calling for a clear affirmation of basic stan-
dards of fraternity conduct. The Council in-
structed the Student Affairs Committee to
implement the policy through regular house
inspection procedures.

Shortly thereafter, in response to the
pervasive alarm over the decay in the frater-
nity system, the W&L Board of Trustees
formed an ad hoc committee to study ways
to improve the living standards of fraternity
houses, particularly in the area of health
and safety.

Dan Murphy, associate dean of students
and coordinator of fraternity affairs, came
on board the Dean of Students Office in
late 1977 to do something about the frater-
nity situation. Murphy, a ’73 W&L
graduate (Sigma Chi), helped formulate
housing standards and inspection pro-
cedures and helped legislate strict social
probation penalties. Murphy began to
monitor the reconstructive efforts of the In-
trafraternity Council (I.F-C.) and the in-
dividual houses. And on their behalf he
became the agent of conciliation toward an
increasingly dismayed faculty.

“Actually, during the late 70’s, the
decline in fraternities began to level off?’
says Murphy. “First we had to stop a bad
situation from getting any worse’’

by the gen ral conduct oO the house, na-
tional representatives caught the chapter in

 

illegal hazing practices in 1979 and formally

 

 
 
  
 

about to assist the chapter in a reform ef:
E il Il Schildt, then assistant
Sc eee lof Law, to help

“But the members were e simply notin-

terested in being a fraternity” claims Mur-

phy. “All they wanted—to put it mildly— a

was the social life?” The deliquency con-
tinued. Over the next two years
sity heard complaints of recurrent mayhem:
bottles hurled from the roof at neighboring
houses, arrows shot into the University
parking lot, and, on one occasion, a coke” .
maine dropped from a third floor fire

 

 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 

n the spring of 1981. The members

n until such time when the

re a effort. None came,

  
    

visor, an anti-social

ars, the Univer-—

a ed on fraternity pro--
cate the residence by the end :

suade University officials |

: ‘icials ials for adiseas
. Within a week ae

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
 
  
 

then President-elect
ina large classroom
ommerce, Economics,
wasted little time in
1 an examination of
rished traditions.
d Wilson for his:

1 ‘ ec lating that ata
vend Lee fraternities

 
 

      

groaned with embarrassment.
*e  *& *

and the faculty did not
know at the time was that the Sigma Nu Na-

 
  
 

| uona Office, working in consort with

 

several W&L alumni, was studying options |
fora a new chapter at W&L. M.E. Littlefield,
cut gma Nu, had long
been i in contact with concerned Sigma Nu |
alumni of W&L about the problem with the

 

old chapter. Now he and his staff were con-
fronted by the monumental task of raising -

funds for the renovation of the fraternity =
house and attracting an entirely r new cam-
pus membership. a |
pter itself, one of the oldest ir in
the national organization, stood moribund |

 

 

] ) sles, v Vv

The house, a boarded-up shay |
dreary eyesore to the front campus , hen 7
The National Office approached t
witha clear sense of ure ‘ney.

   
  

 

 

 

 

LN ew

restoration had anticipated student
assistance and reflected 1981 labor costs. By
1983, the estimate had grown to $200,000,
with some suspicion that the cost might
prove to be higher.

Meanwhile, Col. Paul J. Murphy, ’49,
chairman of the Sigma Nu House Corpora-
tion, bravely led an ambitious alumni fund-
raising campaign. His efforts were abetted
by the decision of the National Office to
seek to transfer ownership of the chapter
house to the University. If W&L would ac-
cept such a transfer, all private gifts to the
fund could be considered tax deductible.

In all truth, acceptance of the house
would represent some risk and a significant
investment by W&L. Initially, University of-
ficials were reluctant to come to the rescue
of a deeply troubled fraternity. Some asked,
shouldn’t a fraternity that fails be allowed
to slip quietly into oblivion? There was
some sentiment as well that the University
already had too many fraternities. An even
more immediate question concerned the
ability of the fraternity to attract an active
W&L membership large enough and
responsible enough to maintain the upkeep
of the house.

On that front, Dan Rodriguez, assistant
executive director of the National Office,
had already managed impressive progress.
During the spring of 1982, he had learned
that Lexington High School senior and
lacrosse standout Chris John, son of W&L
Dean of Students Lewis John, had decided
to attend W&L. Rodriguez served as referee
at Lexington High School lacrosse games. It
was after one of these games that Rodriguez
introduced himself and invited John to help
Sigma Nu form a new fraternity at W&L.
John was somewhat bewildered at first, but
after a tour of the national headquarters he
agreed to help. That fall, the two of them
worked together and formed a pledge class
large enough to sustain a colony.

““We began with six pledges;’ says John,
who acted as principal recruiter and then
commander of the fledgling fraternity. ““By
year’s end we had fifteen. The only reason
we did it was because of the house. It was
tough, but by pulling together we all
became good friends. I can say now that it’s
been worth the effort?’

Meanwhile, the appeal to the University
by the Sigma Nu House Corporation and

18

a
he ne ee i es RE

At the moment, Sigma Nu boasts 29 members.

Nationai Office ts accept the “gift” of the
house continued. Wilson and others were
impressed by the degree of effort extended
by the alumni toward the revival of the
chapter. Finally the University agreed, with
the understanding that the Alumni Council
and National Office would continue their
fund raising efforts. Renovations were
begun, with W&L and Sigma Nu each con-
tributing $50,000 loans and the alumni
$100,000 to the project.

At the urging of the alumni and the Na-
tional Office, W&L also saw in its owner-
ship of the chapter house an opportunity
for greater influence over the conduct of the
members of Sigma Nu. It had long been ap-
parent that the entire fraternity system at
W&L needed better leadership. With the
University in a position of more immediate
supervision, through its control of the in-
dividual house leases, order might well be
more ably restored.

But some prognostications are still
rather gloomy. According to Dan Murphy,
‘Frankly, the best hope for the fraternity
system here is a complete reevaluation of
the purpose of fraternities and a rededica-
tion to the principles on which they were
founded. Many of the fraternities have
drifted badly, and some of them may be
beyond the University’s ability to save them.

 

Still we are eager to do what we can:’

Those chapters in difficulty today might
well study the example of the new Sigma
Nu. Now with a membership of 29 students,
Sigma Nu currently heads all fraternities in
academic rank. Twelve members are now
residing in the newly refurbished house. Up-
perclassmen will continue to room in the
residence. The hundred year-old charter,
returned with due ceremony at the chapter’s
centennial, hangs proudly in the hall.

Says President Wilson, “I’m delighted
that the University has been able to assist
Sigma Nu in reestablishing a chapter at
Washington and Lee. The fraternity system
has long held an important place in campus
life at W&L. The fine young men now main-
taining the chapter, with their handsomely
restored residence and their commitment to
the high ideals of fraternity life, well repre-
sent how the University and fraternities can
work together in creating an attractive
academic and social community.’

The National Office of Sigma Nu now
boasts of the local chapter’s “phoenix
rebirth’—rising from the ashes of previous
existence, the chapter has taken flight again,
stronger and loftier.

The music of its weekend rituals is still
deafening, but on Sunday afternoons it
plays to yardwork.

 

 

_ Och oh ale Oe eee woe eMes Rete ee sacs ‘ Se . eneneiieststoatas

: . . eo eee lS SEERA. OE : ‘ : ° se _sesuineeeassennnssononassannennnsmennennmnenssnsteas
: . Be STRESS 2S : SS $y Se ee

‘ as : ae aS es = nee eeeererereennnennnene ts : ek tee Bo

 

‘ .
HSkee Rew
'

Ripple it ALTE EG

 

The Van Leers—son Tad (right) and father Ted—pose with a sample of the family’s product.

   
     

 

   
 
   

 

 

     

SO LBS. RET WT.

 

  

 

<sssiegeisotnsoonsoeosensonsonooonoenooeaoanaeneaIS
HQSNS Hebsies Dew.

 

    
   

TEM ones

A Sweet (and semi-sweet) Job

The Van Leers—TIed, ’51, and Tad, ’77—Are Honest-to-Goodness Willy Wonkas

“It was Wonka’s Factory, owned by a
man called Mr. Willy Wonka, the
greatest inventor and maker of
chocolates that there has ever been. And
what a tremendous, marvelous place it
was! It had huge iron gates leading into
it, and a high wall surrounding it, and
smoke belching from its chimneys, and
strange whissing sounds coming from
deep inside it. And outside the walls for
half a mile around in every direction, the
air was scented with the heavy rich smell
of melting chocolate.’—Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory

JERSEY CITY, N.J.—Set hard against
railroad tracks at the end of a dusty, dead-
end drive, the drab, nondescript complex
of buildings looks no different than any of
the other factories that dot this part of New
Jersey, a short commuter train ride away
from New York City.

From appearances alone, there is no way

by Jeffery G. Hanna

to know what is being manufactured in
these buildings. It could be a storm window
factory. Or a pharmaceutical laboratory. Or
a carpet manufacturer.

Step inside the door and you know in an
instant that it’s none of those. Your nose
tells you this is no ordinary factory. Just
breathing the air is fattening.

Willy Wonka lives. At least his factory
lives. Except that it goes by the name of
“Van Leer Chocolate Corporation”’

* * *

A TV monitor situated in one corner of
the office is blinking out the latest figures
from the Commodity Market as Ted Van
Leer, ’51, discusses the weather (in Ecuador,
not New Jersey) in a telephone conversation
with a business associate. Meanwhile, in an
adjoining office, Tad Van Leer, ’77, is star-
ing into his Apple computer terminal, stu-
dying a separate set of figures from the
Cocoa Exchange.

When Ted Van Leer was a W&L student,

his father mortgaged the family’s house,
borrowed on a life insurance policy and
plunged headlong into the American
Dream. He started making chocolate.

The elder Van Leer was a native
Hollander who had been in the business of
importing cocoa for almost 20 years. Back
then the Van Leer Chocolate Corporation
was one of about 35 or 40 similar com-
panies throughout the United States. Today
there are 13 companies making chocolate.
Van Leer is still one of those.

Perhaps you haven’t heard the name
before. Perhaps you haven’t seen a “‘Van
Leer” chocolate bar on the shelf of your
neighborhood super market. That’s because
there is no such animal. But chances are
you’ve eaten chocolate that has been made
in the Van Leers’ Jersey City factory.
Godiva chocolates, for instance. Pepperidge
Farms’ Melano cookies, for instance. Klon-
dike chocolate-covered ice cream bars, for
instance. If you’ve tasted any of those, then

19

Sweet Job

you’ve tasted Van Leer chocolate.
* * *

The Van Leer Chocolate Corporation is
a family-held, family-run corporation. L. K.
Van Leer, the founder, is 84 now and still ex-
tremely active in the company. Ted Van Leer
is the president. Ted’s brother-in-law,
Malcolm Campbell, is executive vice
president. Tad Van Leer is assistant to the
president.

A good many of those 40 chocolate
companies in existence when the Van Leer
Corporation was founded in 1950 were
family businesses, too.

“A lot of those companies did not keep
their capital investment up or their product
up and consequently fell by the wayside?’
Ted says. ““They were either liquidated, went
bankrupt, or were taken over by other com-
panies. It is a very competitive industry-’

And there were rocky moments for the
Van Leers.

“We got into financial problems early
on;’ Ted says. “One of the commodity
houses said that the market was going up,
that we should buy cocoa. But instead the
market went down and we lost money in the
futures.

“One of the banks pulled an inventory
loan. My father in a crisis situation is really
a super person. He pulled the loan and said,
‘Here’s the inventory, tear up the note? And
he was about to unload that inventory on
the bank floor’

The crisis passed. The business survived.
Eventually it flourished.

Ted Van Leer was an economics major at
Washington and Lee. His knowledge of
chocolate was limited to the consumption
thereof. But it didn’t take him long to learn
how to make chocolate. He had no choice,
really.

“I had to learn because it was sink or
swim;’ he says. “‘We were one year old and
the smallest of 35 or 40 companies. We had
only one direction to go. We couldn’t go
down any further. So little by little, we
learned?’

* * *

It all begins with the beans. Cocoa
beans. The beans are imported from
tropical countries (‘““They’re only grown 12
degrees north and south of the equator’
Tad is explaining as he takes some visitors

20

Tad scoops up a handful of cocoa beans.

 

 

 

on a tour of the plant). That helps explain
why Ted would be more concerned with the
weather in Ecuador than in Newark. A.
rainy growing season can mean the crop will
be down and the beans may be moldy and |
the Van Leers will reject a lot of beans
before they find a shipment that measures"
up to their high standards.

The cocoa beans arrive at Port Newark
in 130-pound sacks. After delivery to the
factory, the beans are checked for quality,
flavor, color, and cleanliness.

Once the beans pass the lab tests, they
are pneumatically conveyed through
overhead pipes from rooftop silos to the
roaster and are roasted at carefully |
monitored temperatures and develop a rich,
brown chocolate color and flavor. —

_ From the roaster, the beans go toa
“cracker fanner” in which the Shells are
removed from the “nibs” or meat of the ©
bean. The nibs are crushed i in two rotary
hammer mills and turned into an
unsweetened chocolate known j in the trade :
as “liquor chocolate” a -

The liquor chocolate goes into paste
mixers where the various liquid and dry
(primarily milk and sugar) ingredients are
blended with it to make a paste. A specially |
designed steel conveying system moves the
paste to heavy five-roll refiners where it is
ground to a fine, velvety-smooth — |
consistency,

After refining, the chocolate i is mixed in
huge containers known as “conches?’ Tad
stops in front of one of the largest of those
conches. The name “Big Opa” is inscribed
on the outside (“We're a true family
business—even the machines are called by
their first names?’ Tad says, noting that Opa
means grandfather i in Dutch).

At the moment Big Opa is conching |
about 16,000 pounds of chocolate. Tad
grabs a flashlight, leads his small tour
Ip narrow steps, opens the top of the =
ind reaches down into the darkness.
“Here, try this,” he says, thrusting a finger
full of warm, rich chocolate toward the ©
visitors. “We lick the bez ater here Just like a at
home”? =

Once it is “cone ed
several days, to reach the «
and viscosity, the chocolate ped into
storage tanks and then into drums, pails, or

 

 

 

  

 

  
 

amines a new

tank trucks, holding as much as 40,000
pounds of liquid chocolate to be delivered -
to bulk customers. |

_ Elsewhere in the plant, chocolateis
molded into 10-pound bars for use by con-
fectioners and ice oe
_ The basic _

 
    
     

tior Soha concerned with
quantity than q ua ity. The company takes —
pride in its ability to treat each customer in-
dividually. At the moment there are more

than 400 “recipes” or formulas filed away —

 

 

   

in the Apple computer system. When a
customer wants a specific taste it it can rely

 

“Many Washington and Lee graduates

 

course to take. After all, joining the family _

_ tory as his future career. It was Dad’s job.

rino pours chocolate into

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

leave the University to enter a family
business. There are those who will suggest
that “going home to help daddy” is the easy

business enables graduates to avoid the
trials and tribulations of an increasingly
difficult job market. |

But is it really that easy? |

“T would say that the responsibility i is
greater for someone who goes intothe __
family business?’ Ted says. “There is more at
stake in a sense. One day it’s liable to be -
your business. You can’t afford to let.
anything happen to it. You work harder to —
make sure it succeeds. You have to earn your.
way at the outset by showing the other
employees that you are not put there obs
because you are the boss’ son” its”

Tad Van Leer still has fond memories of
growing up as Willy Wonka’sson. He __
remembers accompanying his father to the
factory on Sundays when he and his brother
and sister would ride on the front of a
forklift as his father made a routine check
of the building. _

Back then Tad did not t look. at the face

 

 
  
  

Gradually that changed. As a high -

 

 

 

            

 

   

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

with a milk chocolate interior, ==
“It’s more fun than making computer
parts” adds Ted “Chocolate is a happy —
food. You don’t see many sad chocolate
eaters?” |
The chocolate made i in the Van Leer fac-
_ tory is some of the best, maybe THE best in
_ the country. Their aim is to make their
- chocolate as good as, maybe even better —
than, the famous chocolates of fee

 

school senior, Tad knew there was a good |
. | chance he would join the family business _
one day. That i is one reason why he original-

 

 

 

    

trouble orn his own n identity. He was an

        

     

 

 

voeaeed spiiongtetaat Tad says. “Te en- 7
joyed it, I really did. |

    

 

  

ee 1 > Van Leer factory are

  
 
 
 

the trade 1 name “Godiva” are,
in reality, made of Van Leer chocolate.
- 7 _ “Weare strictly behind the scenes. No
one sees our name anywhere,’ says Ted.

| - shops a

i

   
 
 
  
 

 

 

Though the plant i is undergoing a major ex-
_ Pansion phase at the moment, there are no

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W.
CL, Gazette

U.S. News & World Report Ranks W&L at Top of ‘Small Comprehensive Universities’

 

We're No. 1

 

A national survey by U.S. News & World
Report rates Washington and Lee University
at the top of the country’s “smaller com-
prehensive universities”’ east of the
Mississippi.

Results of the survey of college
presidents are reported as the cover story in
the national news magazine’s November 28
issue.

According to the magazine’s story, the
survey was sent to presidents of all four-year
colleges and universities that offer a liberal
arts program as part of their undergraduate
education. Each president was asked to
choose the five best undergraduate schools
from a list of institutions most similar to his
or her own.

The nation’s universities were placed in
five different categories—national univer-
sities, national liberal arts colleges, com-
prehensive universities, smaller comprehen-
sive universities, and regional liberal arts
colleges.

Washington and Lee was rated in the
category of smaller comprehensive univer-
sities, which were defined as universities of-
fering a liberal arts program with at least
one professional program. In addition to its
undergraduate divisions of the College (of
arts and sciences) and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics,
Washington and Lee has the graduate
School of Law.

Those smaller comprehensive univer-
sities were divided geographically with
schools east and west of the Mississippi
River rated separately.

Washington and Lee was No. 1 among
the smaller comprehensive universities east
of the Mississippi.

The schools were rated on the basis of
the percentage of presidents who ranked the
school among the top five in the various
categories.

W&L was ranked in the top five by 47.6
percent of the presidents. That represents
the second highest percentage in the entire
survey. Stanford was cited by 48.8 percent in
the national university category and placed
slightly ahead of Harvard, which had 47.6
percent—the same as W&L.

 

 

In the smaller comprehensive university
category, Willamette University of Oregon
was mentioned by 39.5 percent of the
presidents to lead that category among
schools west of the Mississippi.

In the text of the survey, David Riesman,
emeritus professor of social science at Har-
vard, is quoted as saying of Washington and
Lee: “It’s just a very strong place—at once
scholarly and collegial?’

US. News & World Report staff writer
Barbara Quick noted in an interview con-
ducted by W&L’s student newspaper, The
Ring-tum Phi, that the survey responses in
the smaller university catgegory cited
Washington and Lee for its keen adherence
to the liberal arts curriculum while also of-
fering a wide range of professional pro-
grams, including journalism and business
administration.

Of the 1,308 presidents who were asked
to participate in the survey, a total of
662—more than 50 percent—replied. Ac-
cording to the story, they were asked to base
their judgements on ‘“‘the quality of
academic courses, professors, student
bodies and general atmosphere of learning
provided?’

In an editorial titled “At the Summit”
that appeared after the survey was printed,
the Richmond Times-Dispatch wrote: “It is
indeed nice that students at one Virginia

college can shout ‘We’re Number One!’ and
be talking about academics, not subsidized
athletics?’

 

Vote of confidence

 

While U.S. News and World Report was
making the University’s academic programs
No. 1 in its poll of colleges, at least one
newspaper reader in Dallas, Texas, was
making the University’s football program
No. 1.

Throughout the fall the Dallas Morning
News conducted a readers’ college football
poll in which fans were invited to make their
own national rankings.

Predictably enough, Nebraska’s Corn-
huskers stayed atop that poll throughout
the regular season and, contrary to the rest
of the polls, even wound up No. 1 in the
final poll of the year.

While the newspaper poll had all the
familiar college football powers listed week
in and week out, Washington and Lee made
a cameo appearance for at least one week in
the season when it was listed among ‘“‘Other
first-place votes:’ On about the eighth week
of the poll, the Generals received one first-
place vote from a Dallas reader.

That vote notwithstanding, W&L head
football coach Gary Fallon has not an-
nounced plans to add Nebraska to the 1984
schedule. Thanks anyway, Dallas.

 

 

Moot court team
runnerup in region

 

A national moot court team represen-
ting the Washington and Lee law school
finished second among 25 teams from 13
schools in a four-state regional competition
in November.

By finishing second, the W&L team
earned a berth in the national competition
to be held in February in New York City.

A second team from W&L lost in the
semifinal round to, of all people, the first
W&L team.

The W&L team that finished runnerup
in the event was composed of second-year
students Kathryn B. Meadows of Hur-
ricane, W.Va., Lynn Boepple of Westwood,

23

L&% Gazette

N.J., and J. Ross Newell of Virginia Beach.
Third-year law student Tom Shepherd of
Aberdeen, Miss., is the team’s coach.

 

Law Center writes
Virginia Human Rights Act’.

 

A proposed Virginia Human Rights
Act that was written at the Frances Lewis
Law Center at Washington and Lee was
introduced at a conference in Richmond
in November.

Prepared during the summer by a
team of Washington and Lee law pro-
fessors and students along with a law
professor from the University of Virginia,
the act calls for the creation of a nine-
member Virginia Commission on Human
Rights, which would be empowered to
hold hearings, issue cease and desist
orders, subpoena witnesses, and facilitate
conciliation in discrimination cases.

According to Steven H. Hobbs, assis-
tant professor of law at Washington and
Lee and supervisor of the team that
drafted the act, the act provides for the
recognition of basic human rights in the
areas of employment, public accommoda-
tion, and real estate transactions.

‘In one sense, the act is a policy
statement;’ said Hobbs. “‘But in another
it does call for the creation of a state en-
forcement mechanism in the form of the
proposed Human Rights Commission?’

In addition to Hobbs, the team that
prepared the act consisted of Toni M.
Massaro, assistant professor of law at
W&L, Martha I. Morgan, visiting assis-
tant professor of law at W&L, George A.
Rutherglen of the University of Virginia

law school, Thomas A. Howell, a second-

year law student from Port Jefferson,
N.Y., and Mike Shaffer, a second-year
law student from Lexington.

‘<Since 46 other states already have
such state human rights bills on their
books, much of our work involved
researching those state bills as well as the
model human rights act of the National
Conference of Commissioners on
Uniform State Law and modifying them
to the situation as it exists in Virginia,’’
said Hobbs.

The policy statement that forms a ma-

jor portion of the act states that the
Commonwealth of Virginia will not
tolerate violations of human rights, i.e.,
discrimination by race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, marital status,
or handicap.

24

In addition to calling for the creation
of a statewide human rights commission,
the act provides for the establishment of
local human rights boards which would
operate in conjunction with but in-
dependently of the state commission.

‘‘Having a state commission would
allow for these disputes among Virginians
to be settled by Virginians rather than
having to be settled on a federal level,’’
Hobbs said. ‘‘In addition, the commis-
sion would qualify for federal deferral
status since the federal government would
reimburse the state for every case that it
would not have to handle because of the state
commission:’

Hobbs said that the Lewis Law Center
was commissioned to prepare the propos-
ed act by the Virginia Advisory Commit-
tee to the United States Civil Rights
Commission.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was
created by an endowment from Frances
and Sydney Lewis of Richmond. In-
augurated in 1978, the law center is
designed to stimulate and support
research and exchange of ideas leading to
recommendations for law reform.

by the interfraternity council and the stu-
dent body.

e Anne E. Carr, associate professor
of theology at The Divinity School of the
University of Chicago, presented a lecture
entitled ‘‘Feminism and Christianity:
Conflict and Conversion’’ in November.

e Robert T. Denomme, chairman of
the department of French at the Universi-
ty of Virginia, lectured on ‘‘Musset’s
‘Lorenzaccio’ and French Romanticism”’
in November under the joint sponsorship
of the W&Lromance language depart-
ment and Alliance Francaise of
Lexington.

 

 

Campus speakers

 

e John Stockwell, a former agent of
the Central Intelligence Agency who has
written a controversial analysis of covert
action in the Angola civil war, presented
a lecture entitled ‘‘The Secret Wars of
the CIA’’ in November as part of Con-
tact °83, a speaker symposium sponsored

Former CIA agent John Stockwell speaks with students after his Contact presentation.

New musical group

 

‘“‘Who’s Buyin’,’’ a new ‘‘Kool Jazz’’
quintet, has been formed at Washington
and Lee and is composed of students from
W&L’s Glee Club and the Brass and Percus-
sion Ensemble.

According to Robert Stewart, professor
of music and director of the Brass and Per-
cussion Ensemble, the new quintet features
a repertoire of such standards As Time
Goes By, Take the A Train, and Autumn
Leaves. :

The quintet includes percussion,
trumpet/flugel horn, saxophone, bass, and
piano.

Members of the quintet are:

—Barthe vanDoorn, a senior from
Herndon, Va., and a percussionist with the
Brass and Percussion Ensemble;

—Jim Davis, a senior from Shreveport,
La., who is a soloist on trumpet and flugel

 

 

horn with the W&L Jazz Lab Band;

—Whitney Gadsby, a junior from Wilm-
ington, Del., a saxophonist with the W&L
Jazz Lab Band;

—Chris Fure, a freshman from Berkeley,
Calif., who plays the bass and was second in
the state of California at the Monterey Jazz
Festival;

—Bruin Richardson, a sophomore from
Port Huron, Mich., who accompanies the
W&L Glee Club on the piano and has
played in jazz ensembles in the Port Huron
area.

 

Huntley takes post
with Best Products Co.

 

Former Washington and Lee President
Robert E. R. Huntley has been named ex-
ecutive vice president of Richmond-based
Best Products Co., Inc.

Huntley, who stepped down as W&L’s
president in early 1983, will be president
and chief operating officer of Best Pro-
ducts’ catalog showroom division. He
assumed his new duties on January 2.

Best Products is the nation’s largest
catalog showroom retailer, operating 197
showrooms throughout the country.

After leaving the W&L presidency last
spring, Huntley rejoined the faculty of the
School of Law and taught a course on cor-
porate law.

“Leaving Lexington and Washington
and Lee will be difficult for us because our
roots are here and because of our profound
affection for the school and its people;’ said
Huntley. “But the opportunity to work with
a different kind of enterprise for which we
hold the greatest admiration is exciting —
and we are looking forward to it.

“Especially I find satisfaction in know-
ing that Washington and Lee has strong and
effective leadership in John Wilson and that
he and our fine board and faculty will be
able to accomplish great things for the
school in the years to come. My own devo-
tion to Washington and Lee will never
diminish?’

The 54-year-old Huntley will be filling a
position created a year ago during a cor-
porate restructuring at Best Products.

Founded in 1957 by Sydney and Frances
Lewis, Best Products has operations in 27
states and expects to top the $2 million
mark in sales this year after exceeding $1.6
million a year ago.

The Lewises have been major benefac-
tors of Washington and Lee. Their $9

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
  
   
  
 
  

pene

Robert E. R. Huntley

million gift to the University in 1972 provid-
ed funds for the construction of Lewis Hall,
the law school building. Frances Lewis is
currently a trustee of the University.

Huntley is a 1950 graduate of W&L. He
received the law degree from W&L in 1957
and joined the faculty of the law school in
1958. He was named law dean in 1968 and
held that position only one semester before
being named president of the University.

Huntley has been a member of the
board of Best Products since 1972. He will
remain on that board but will relinquish the
chairmanship of its finance committee.

He is a member of the boards of Central
Telephone and Utilities Corp., Philip Mor-
ris Inc., Piedmont Aviation, and Shenan-
doah Life Insurance Co. He is chairman of
the board of Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond.

 

    
    
  

Honors, awards

 

e The 1984 edition of Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities
and Colleges will include the names of 34
Washington and Lee students who have
been selected as outstanding leaders.

Campus nominating committees and
editors of the annual directory have includ-
ed the names of these students based on
their academic achievement, service to the
community, leadership in extracurricular
activities, and potential for continued
success.

Those students named to Who’s Who
were:

Seniors: Charles W. Alcorn III of Vic-
toria, Texas; Marty Bechtold of Ft. Mit-
chell, Ky.; Christopher J. Cartmill of Lin-
coln, Neb.; John M. Cleghorn of
Washington, D.C.; Andrew S. Cooney of
Durham, N.C.; Emery Ellinger III of Atlan-
ta; Lee Feldman of North Miami Beach,
Fla.; Robert C. Jenevein of Dallas, Texas;

Gunnar Kai Jordan of Fairfax, Va.;
David C. Judge of Short Hills, N.J.; Mark
A. Lukes of West Chester, Pa.; Alan E.
McQuiston Jr. of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.;
Ronald R. Magee of Dallas, Texas; Peter M.
Muller of Greenwich, Conn.; Jack L.
O’Brien of Boca Raton, Fla.; William Drew
Perkins of Lufkin, Texas; Tori C. A.
Richardson of Irvington, N.J.; Parker B.
Schenecker of Fort Worth, Texas;

Timothy G. Schurr of Yorktown
Heights, N-Y.; Roland Simon of Edgewood,
Md.; Michael E. Singer of Dallas, Texas; G.
Leighton Stradtman of Columbia, S.C.;
Richard C. Swagler Jr. of Birmingham,
Ala.; Timothy A. Valliere of Uncasville,
Conn.; T. Jeffrey Wells of Virginia Beach,
Va.; David John Warrenfeltz Jr. of
Smithsburg, Md.; and, Paul C. Ziebert of
Wauwatosa, Wis.

Third-year law students: James William
C. Canup of Chevy Chase, Md.; David J.
Hansen of Milwaukee, Wis.; James M.
Hicks Jr. of Lake Ronkonkoma, NY.; John
Randall Minchew of McLean, Va.; Patricia
Anne Reed of Morristown, N.J.; Thomas
Banks Shepherd of Aberdeen, Miss.; and,
Kelly M. Wrenn of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

e David M. Delpierre, a second-year law
student at Washington and Lee from
Roanoke, has been elected secretary-
treasurer of the American Bar Association’s
Law Student Division.

Delpierre is Washington and Lee’s law
school representative to the American Bar
Association.

He will officially take office at the
ABA’s annual meeting in Chicago next
summer.

The Law Student Division of the ABA
consists of 42,000 students in law schools
around the country and is designed to get
the students involved in activites of the
ABA.

Delpierre is a 1981 graduate of the
University of Virginia. At W&L, he is a
member of the Student Bar Association and
is on the staff of the Law News.

e Seven Washington and Lee students
and one W&L faculty member have been in-
ducted into Mu Beta Psi national honorary
music fraternity.

Members are selected on the basis of

 
 

 
 

Lo

de Gazette

their musical talent and participation in
organizations that contribute to the musical
life on the campus.

The students inducted were senior
James C. Hudson of Richmond, Ind., and
juniors Roger T. Day of Gardendale, Ala.,
David M. Hollis of Springfield, Va.,
Whitney H. Gadsby of Wilmington, Del.,
Landon H. Jones of Beaver, Pa., Adam R.
Reinstein of Dix Hills, N-Y., and J. Robert
Spatig of Huntington, W.Va.

Inducted as an honorary member was
Russell C. Knudson, assistant professor of
romance languages at W&L.

e Washington and Lee juniors David A.
Sizemore of Covington, Va., and
Christopher Williams of Newark, Del., are
the 1983-84 winners of the L. K. Johnson
Scholarship in the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

The scholarship was created in 1974 in
honor of the late Lewis Kerr Johnson, who
served Washington and Lee for 40 years as
professor of administration and head of the
department of administration.

The scholarship is awarded to juniors
majoring in business administration who
possess at least a 3.0 grade point average
and who are planning a business career.

Sizemore is a graduate of Alleghany
County High School. He is a member of the
varsity football team at W&L and a dor-
mitory counselor.

Williams is a graduate of Newark High
School and was the 1982-83 winner of the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award. He is
co-chairman of the 1984 Muscular
Dystrophy Superdance committee.

e The Washington and Lee debate team
has captured 11 team and speaker trophies
this year. Winners for the W&L team have
been Chris Lion, a sophomore from
Ofallon, Ill.; Paul Smith, a freshman from
Gainesville, Ga.; Jonathan Miles, a
freshman from San Antonio, Texas; Rick
Graves, a freshman from Gulfport, Miss.;
Rob Gresham, a sophomore from Rome,
Ga.; and, John Buchanan, a junior from
Tallahassee, Fla.

 

Trustee Emeritus
Teen Martin Dies

 

Mrs. Christine Hale Martin, Trustee
Emeritus of Washington and Lee and
former president of the Garden Club of
Virginia, died December 16 at her home,
Kittery Point, in Gloucester, Va. She was 73.

A funeral service for Mrs. Martin was
held December 19. Burial was in the

26

WEL debaters (from left) Rick Graves,

cemetery of Ware Episcopal Church in
Gloucester.

A native of Parkersburg, W.Va., Mrs.
Martin was elected to the Washington and
Lee Board of Trustees in 1978 and served
until her retirement from the board in 1981
when she was named Trustee Emeritus.

87, Gulfport,
86, Ofallon, Ill; Rob Gresham, ’86, Rome, Ga.; and, John Buchanan, ’86, Tallahassee, Fla.

She served as president of the statewide -

Garden Club from 1962 to 1964 and was
chairman of its Restoration Committee
from 1966 to 1968. She was instrumental in

Mrs. Christine Hale Martin

 

 

the re-landscaping of Lee Chapel on the
W&L campus. She was the author of Follow
the Green Arrow, the 50-year history of the
Garden Club published in 1970.

She was a member-at-large of the
Garden Club of America and co-chairman
of that organization’s long-range planning
committee.

She was a member of the board of
trustees of the Gloucester County Day
School and Historic Christ Church in Lan-
caster County. She was the only American
trustee of the Tradescant Trust of London,
England.

Survivors include her husband, James
Bland Martin of Gloucester, a 1931 law
graduate of Washington and Lee and
former member of the Virginia House of
Delegates, and a brother, Roy Hale of Los
Angeles.

 

Volume of Mann photographs
published by David R. Godine

 

A volume of photographs by Lexington
photographer Sally Mann, former Universi-
ty Photographer at W&L, has been publish-
ed by David R. Godine, Publisher, Inc., of
Boston.

Entitled Second Sight: The Photographs
of Sally Mann, the 72-page book is the |
fourth title in the Godine Contemporary
Photographers Series.

The large-format book contains four
sections and represents almost a decade of

Mann’s work. The first section consists of
early landscapes, mostly from the
Lexington-Rockbridge County area; the se-
cond is Mann’s ‘‘Lewis Law’”’ sequence—
eerie and stark photographs of the con-
struction site of Washington and Lee’s law
school building at night; the third is com-
posed of portraits of women, most of
whom were Rockbridge County residents;
and, the fourth is a series of 21 platinum
prints, a turn-of-the-century photographic
process rarely used by contemporary
photographers.

In an introduction to the book, Jane
Livingston, curator of the Corcoran Gallery
of Art in Washington, writes: “Sally Mann
is a photographer for whom no aspect of
the medium is without its possibilities. She
is as natural in the act of pictorial framing,
lens to lens, as she is at home in the
darkroom?’

A 1974 graduate of Hollins College
from which she also holds a master’s degree,
Mann’s photographs are found in major
American collections, including the
Museum of Modern Art, the Hirschorn
Museum, the Corcoran Gallery, and the
Chrysler Museum.

In 1982 the editors of Time-Life books
selected a portfolio of her photography for
inclusion in the Discoveries Section of the
1982 Time-Life Annual, Photography Year.

She received the prestigious Ferguson
Grant from the Friends of Photography in
Carmel, Cal., in 1978 and was awarded both
a National Endowment for the Arts
Fellowship and a Virginia Museum Profes-
sional Fellowship in 1982.

The largest independent press in the
country, Godine publishes books ranging
from deluxe art editions and belles-lettres to
mystery novels, children’s stories and works
of regional New England interest.

Second Sight, priced at $25, is available
in Lexington at the Washington and Lee
University Book Store.

 

Fowlie named
visiting professor

 

The cover of Sally Mann’s volume of photographs

At W&L, Fowlie will teach a course in
French Prose Fiction and a spring term
course on Dante’s Inferno.

Fowlie is the author of numerous
volumes on French literature, including a
critical study of Rimbaud and the volume
French Literature: Its History and Its Mean-
ing. He has also translated several French
works to English. A graduate of Harvard,
he taught at Yale, the University of Chicago,
and Bennington before being named James
B. Duke Professor of French at Duke in
1964.

 

Faculty activities

 

 

Wallace Fowlie, professor emeritus at
Duke University, has been named a visiting
professor of romance languages at
Washington and Lee for the winter and
spring terms.

Fowlie is serving as visiting professor of
modern languages and holder of the Mary
Moody Northen Chair at Virginia Military
Institute during the current fall term.

e Halford Ryan, associate professor of
public speaking, presented a paper on Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt at the national
Speech Communication Association con-
vention in Washington, D.C., in November.

Ryan’s paper examined FDR’s second
inaugural address.

In addition, Ryan conceived the pro-
gram title for the convention, ‘‘Presidential
Libraries: Researching the Rhetorical
Presidency,’ and assembled other panel

 

 

members on presidents Truman and
Johnson, and the program was accepted
and sponsored by the Speech Communica-
tion Association Task Force on Presidential
Communication.

Ryan has also been named editor of the
Virginia Journal of Communication.

The journal is published by the Virginia
Speech Communication Association for its
members in high school, community col-
lege, and four-year colleges and universities.

Two members of the department of Ger-
man were among the speakers at a literary
conference held at George Mason Universi-
ty in November.

e Harold C. Hill, professor of German,
delivered a paper entitled “‘Literature and
Two Filters of Culture?’ In the paper, he
discussed a method of synthesizing techni-
ques from cultural anthropology and
literary criticism in order to establish a base
for using literature as a source of data in
cultural anthropology.

e David B. Dickens, associate professor
of German, presented a paper entitled
‘Teaching Hermann Hesse’s Novel Narziss
and Goldmund: History and Mystery:’ Pro-
ceeding from Hesse’s acknowledged use of

21

Le Gazette

models and personal experiences in his
work, Dickens suggested that Hesse had us-
ed the city of Wurzburg in southern Ger-
many and the work of medieval sculptor
Tilman Riemenschneider as the models for
the unnamed city and for the artist Gold-
mund in the popular novel.

Dickens also has delivered papers on
German author Kurt Kusenberg at the 33rd
annual Mountain Interstate Foreign
Language Conference at Virginia Tech and
at the Slst annual meeting of the American
Association of Teachers of German in San
Francisco in November.

e Robert J. de Maria, associate pro-
fessor of journalism and communications,
has been appointed to the Sigma Delta
Chi/Society of Professional Journalists’
ethics committee.

The appointment was made during the
organization’s national meeting in
November in San Francisco.

de Maria was a featured speaker at a
seminar on journalism ethics during the na-
tional conference.

e An article on W. M. Thackeray’s
novel The Adventures of Philip has recently
been published by Richard W. Oram,
special collections librarian.

Oram’s article appears in the July-
August 1983 edition of American Book
Collector and is entitled ‘““The Confederate
Thackeray: Evans and Cogswell’s The
Adventures of Philip?

This is the latest of several articles that
Oram has written on Thackeray.

e An analytical bibliography of all
American judicial proceedings printed
before 1801 has just been published by law
professor Wilfred J. Ritz.

The 480-page volume, American
Judicial Proceedings First Printed Before
1801, is the first bibliography to list every
law report, trial, or separate event of
judicial significance occurring in or relating
to what is now the United States and for
which there was material other than a
newspaper account printed before 1801.

Materials are arranged chronologically
by jurisdiction and by major subject. The
materials include rules of court applicable
to judicial proceedings, proceedings in
England relating to the English colonies,
and American reprints of reports and Euro-
pean trials.

Published by the Greenwood Press of
Westport, Conn., research that led to the
volume was conducted as a project of the
Frances Lewis Law Center at Washington
and Lee’s School of Law.

e A new play written by Washington

28

 

iS

i

Lewis G. John

and Lee University drama professor
Thomas J. Ziegler has been selected as a
semi-finalist in national competition spon-
sored jointly by CBS Television and The
Dramatist Guild.

Love Poems, which had its premiere in
the Washington and Lee University Theatre
in October, was one of 75 plays selected
from more than 3,500 entries in the annual
competition called the ‘New Plays
Program:’

Five plays will be chosen from among
those 75 semi-finalists and will be produced
in New York this spring.

e Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of students,
was the recipient of the 1983 Outstanding
Professional Award from the Virginia
Association of Student Personnel
Administrators.

The award was presented to John during
the 640-member organization’s 24th annual
conference at the University of Richmond
in November.

The Virginia Association of Student
Personnel Administrators is composed of
student services professionals at the state’s
colleges and universities.

The Outstanding Professional Award is
presented annually to the administrator
who has displayed “exceptional judgment
and creativity in addressing current issues
and problems” and who is recognized by
colleagues and students as “competent, ef-
fective, and knowledgeable in the field of
student personnel work?’

e Psychology professor Leonard E. Jar-
rard presented a paper at the annual
meeting of the Society for Neuroscience in
Boston, Mass., in November.

The paper was entitled ‘‘On the Role of

 

David G. Elmes

Hippocampus in the Performance of Place
and Cue Tasks:’ Jarrard wrote the paper
with Hiroshige Okaichi, a Japanese pro-
fessor who spent a year conducting research
with Jarrard at W&L, and O. Stewart and R.
Goldschmidt of the department of
neurosurgery at the University of Virginia
College of Medicine.

In addition, an article by Jarrard ap-
pears in the December issue of Behavorial
Neuroscience, which is published by the
American Psychological Association.

e The efficiency with which students
remember in study situations can be af-
fected by the students’ moods, according to
results of a study conducted by a
Washington and Lee professor and two
W&L students.

e Psychology professor David G. Elmes
conducted the study with W&L students
Paul F. Chapman, a senior from Short
Hills, N.J., and Camden W. Selig, a 1983
graduate from Norfolk.

Results of the study were reported in a
paper entitled “Effects of Induced Depres-
sion on the Spacing Effect?’ Elmes
presented the paper in November at the an-
nual meeting of the Psychonomic Society in
San Diego, Calif.

The study involved inducing what the
paper termed ‘“‘a mild temporary depres-
sion’ in some students by having them read
through a series of depressing self-referent
statements.

These students, the study discovered,
tended to remember better in inefficient
cramming situations than non-depressed
students and tended to remember more
poorly in efficient learning situations than
non-depressed students.

es

Paras ar
Sei

se

Dae

 

Ee Gazette

The installation included paintings,
drawings, sculpture, mixed media work, and
electronic music which played continuously
on tape throughout the exhibit.

e The University Theatre presented
Rashomon as its second production of the
year. Set in 10th-century Japan, the play
featured a Samurai sword fight
choreographed by Joseph Martinez, assis-
tant professor of drama and director of
Rashomon.

Martinez, who joined the W&L faculty.
this fall, specializes in on-stage violence and
has written a book on the subject entitled
Combat Mime.

For Rashomon, Martinez and Lexington
blacksmith Lee Sauder forged Samurai
swords out of old car springs.

e The works of four Virginia
photographers were on display during
November and December in duPont
Gallery.

The photographers whose works com-
prised the exhibition were University
Photographer W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, of
Lexington, Nancy Lensen-Iomasson of
Richmond, Terence Roberts of Blacksburg,
and Steve Zapton of Harrisonburg.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Phillip Booth, ’64,
presents W&L concert

 

 

Metropolitan Opera basso Philip Booth,
a 1964 graduate of Washington and Lee,
presented a concert at his alma mater as one
of the presentations of the W&L Concert
Guild in December in Lee Chapel.

In addition to his program, Booth also
spent several days working with students
and with the University’s choral groups.

Ever since his Met debut in Un Ballo in
Maschera in 1975, Booth has demonstrated
his versatility as a featured artist in
Metropolitan Opera productions of Ofello,
Die Meistersinger, Fidelio, Carmen,
Ariadne auf Naxos, Rigoletto, and Aida.

His program for the W&L Concert
Guild presentation included two arias by
Handel, two arias from settings of Bach’s
Magnificat, two concert arias for bass by
Mozart, two sacred pieces for bass, brass
quartet and continuo by Heinrich Schutz,
two opera arias by Giuseppe Verdi, and five
old American songs by Aaron Copland.

Booth was, in his own words, “‘not just
another artist on the Concert Guild
calendar—I’m an alumnus, and I love the
school. I consider this as almost a lecture-
recital, in which I could feel free to give

30

 

 

in duPont Gallery.

some background to an opera aria or shed
some light on why I consider a particular
piece significant or appropriate?’

“Eustis, Florida, 1983,” one of University Photographer W. Patrick Hinely °s works the group exhibition

 

Marjorie Poindexter dies,
student fund created

 

Marjorie R. Poindexter of Lexington,
a member of the Washington and Lee
University staff since 1968, died
November 20 in a Roanoke hospital
following a brief illness. She was 50.

 

Mrs. Poindexter had most recently
served as secretary to James W.
Whitehead, the University Secretary.

As Whitehead observed, ‘‘Marjorie
Poindexter served in many capacities in
her 15 years at the University, but the
role in which everyone knew her was as a
friend. She was a great friend to genera-
tions of students, to faculty, to ad-
ministrators, to the members of our
Board of Trustees, to everyone whom she
met. Her devotion to this University and
its people was surpassed only by her
devotion to her family.’’

 

 

Marjorie R. Poindexter

John L. White, ’74, director of
minority affairs at W&L, is spearheading
efforts to create ‘*The Marjorie Poindex-
ter Student Fund’’ in memory of Mrs.
Poindexter.

According to White, who came to
know Mrs. Poindexter while he was a
student at W&L, the fund would not be
a scholarship or a loan fund but would
provide financial assistance to needy
students in times of unusual emergency
or extraordinary want and would be ad-
ministered by the Office of Student
Financial Aid.

‘‘Marjorie herself at various times
provided or arranged such assistance for
many students, and the provision of such
a fund in her name would surely please
her,’’ said White.

Contributions to the fund can be
made to the Office of Minority Affairs,
Payne Hall, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Va. 24450.

Born in Lexington on January 29,
1933, Mrs. Poindexter had served as clerk
of the Lexington City Council since 1977.
She was a member of Randolph Street
United Methodist Church and of the
Ladies Auxiliary of the Lexington-
Rockbridge Fire Department.

She is survived by her husband, Payne
W. Poindexter; two sons, Staff Sgt.

Payne W. Poindexter Jr. and Spec. 4
Corey M. Poindexter; three daughters,
Mrs. Karen P. Cauthern, Ms. Michelle
Poindexter, and Miss Tia Poindexter; two
brothers; and two grandchildren.

 

 

 

Lester Lanin Opens

The Student Activities Board is com-
pleting its plans for Washington and Lee’s
77th Annual Fancy Dress Ball, which is still
considered one of the country’s premier
college social events. Fancy Dress Weekend
’84 will be held on March 1 through March
3.

The weekend will officially open with
a concert and dance on Thursday night,
March 1. National recording acts are being
sought for the concert, which cranks up the

 

Fancy Dress of Yore

weekend of festivity and frolic. The Ball,
the hub of the weekend, will be on Friday,
March 2, in Warner Center. The evening
will be launched at 8:30 p.m.

Since Miss Annie Jo White, a W&L
librarian, founded Fancy Dress in 1907 to
ease the winter doldrums, the event has
continued to grow, swelling in attendance
and enchantment. This year’s ball, with the
theme still a secret, promises to surpass its

77th Fancy Dress Ball

predecessors. The SAB has been aiming for
the gala event since September, and the
diligence promises to pay off. Recent years
have shown a significant increase in alum-
ni attendance. Last year’s Fancy Dress Ball,
“Waiting for the Robert E. Lee: An Even-
ing Along the Mississippi,’ boasted an at-
tendance of 4,000. This year, the SAB ex-
pects more returning alumni. In fact, the
entire Richmond Alumni Chapter will be
attending this year.

Lester Lanin and his Orchestra will kick
off the Ball. Lanin, playing “the beat heard
around the world?’ and a long-time favorite
at W&L, has entertained every President
from Truman to Reagan and has been
honored by the British Royal Family.

While Lanin entertains in the main
ballroom, there will be other acts in other
rooms by local and national soul, rhythm
and blues, and “new music” recording ar-
tists. There will be music to suit all ages and
tastes. The pleasant complaint that there is
too much to see and do at one four-hour
ball is sure to be heard again this year.

The SAB encourages all alumni to at-
tend the 77th Annual Fancy Dress Ball. The
SAB will gladly assist alumni in any way
possible. Tickets are available for $30 per
couple and obtainable through the form
below. A list of area accommodations is
also provided. For additional information,
please contact Carole Chappell at (703)
463-9111, extension 299.

 

Accommodations

McCampbell Inn & (703) 463-2044 Howard Johnson’s 463-9191

Alexander-Withrow House Keydet General 463-2143
Colony House Motel 463-2195 Lexington Motel 463-2151
Days Inn 463-9131 Natural Bridge Hotel 291-2121
Econo Lodge 463-7371 Westmoreland 291-9109
Holiday Inn 463-7351
Please send me tickets to W&L’s 77th Fancy Dress Ball, which is to be held on

Friday, March 2, 1984. Tickets are $30 per couple. My check inthe amount of ___is"

enclosed. (Payable to SAB.)

Name:

Class of:

 

Address:

 

Mail To: Student Activities Board
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Zip:

 

 

31

 

 

 

 

‘irschner

amed

l-America

‘Generals Record
4th Straight
‘Winning Season

In Football _

 

McBryde, ‘the decision to become a distance
runner was a pragmatic one.
As a seventh grader in his native

‘Charlotte, N.C., McBryde wanted to get in-

volved in a varsity sport. |

“T wasn’t very good at football, and my
father had run track?’ recalls McBryde. “So
I decided on track?’

- But McBryde began his track career asa _

sprinter, competing in the 100- and 200-yard
dash events. | |

“It took two meets to establish beyond
any doubt that I was not a sprinter” |
McBryde says with a grin. “That’s when I
decided to try distances.

“T began running distance before the
running fad really kicked in around the
country. Those of us who were running
back then were pretty much out there alone.
Now it seems everyone is running?’ |

But McBryde is still ahead of the pack.
In November, McBryde became Washington
and Lee’s first cross country All-American
when he finished. 10th in the NCAA Divi-

sion III national championship meet i in

Newport News, Va.

A week earlier McBryde had won the
regional qualifying meet on the same
course. And two weeks before that he had
captured the Old Dominion Athletic Con-

ference individual title and had been named
the Runner of the Year inthe ODAC.

McBryde is as comfortable running

across the wooded hillsides on the Generals’
picturesque five-mile cross country course
as he is circling the track at Wilson Field as _

 

Gene Girard over the top

the premier distance runner and tri-captain
of W&Ls track and field team.

“Tt would be hard for me to choose be-
tween my track and cross country ex-
periences,’ says McBryde. “I love them
both, but for different reasons:’

Last spring as a member of the track
and field team he set new W&L records in
both the 5000- and 1500-meter events and

became only the third Washington and Lee _

athlete ever to qualify for the NCAA Divi-
sion III track and field championships.

That feat, coupled with his performance
in cross country this fall, has established
McBryde as the Generals’ premier distance
runner.

 

Generals finish strong
for 6-3 football mark

 

The fourth consecutive winning season.
The first 1,000-yard rusher in modern times.
And another Little All-American.

Those ranked at the top of the list of
achievements that Washington and Lee’s
1983 football team accomplished this fall.

By winning its final three games of the
season, including a dramatic come-from-
behind 22-21 win over Catholic University,
the Generals wound up with a 6-3 record to
finish above the .500 mark for the fourth -
time in the past four years. Over that
period, W&L’s record is 25-13.

One major reason for the Generals’ suc-
cess was the record-shattering performance

 

32

 

 

/
;
:
4
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

of junior tailback Gene Girard (Coral
Gables, Fla.) who became W&L's first
1,000-yard rusher since the days of subsidiz-
ed football. Girard had a total of 1,011 yards
to break the single season record of 928
yards set by Stewart Atkinson in 1978. He
easily won the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference rushing statistics and, in addition to
being named to the All-ODAC team, was
named second team All-State by the
Roanoke Times & World-News, which
selects a team from all Virginia’s football
teams including Division I teams.

Meantime, senior center Glenn
Kirschner (Point Pleasant, N.J.) was named
to the first team of the Kodak College Divi-
sion All-America team, which is selected
by the American Football Coaches
Association.

“I couldn’t be happier for Gene and for
Glenn;’ said head football coach Gary
Fallon. ‘But I am just as happy for all our
seniors who were able to go through four
years here and be winners all the way
through. This was a great group with which
to work?’

 

Mandel named SID

 

Mark Mandel has been appointed sports
information director at Washington and Lee

Mark Mande

 

and assumed his new duties in November.

Mandel replaces Ken Ries, who was
named public and sports information direc-
tor at James Madison University.

A 1973 graduate of Ithaca College,
Mandel received a master’s degree from
Syracuse University. He has served as sports
information director for Worcester
Polytechnic Institute in Worcester, Mass.,
since 1978.

 

 

Soccer finishes 8-5

 

Led by senior forward Roland Simon
(Edgewood, Md.), who earned All-South
Athletic honors, Washington and Lee’s soc-
cer team compiled an 8-5 record and came
within one victory of earning a bid to the
NCAA Division III soccer tournament.

Simon and sophomore forward Bill
Holmes (Gladwyne, Pa.) led the W&L of-
fense with 17 points apiece while junior Jay
Werner (St. Louis) recorded five shutouts
and allowed just 1.23 goals per game in his
first season in goal.

 

Water polo wins Southern

 

Despite a season of ups and downs,
Washington and Lee’s water polo team had
a strong finish when the Generals captured
their third consecutive Southern League
tournament by upsetting favored Rich-
mond, 7-4, in the championship match.

W&L had an overall record of 25-12 as
four seniors finished their careers with a
total of 99 wins. Those seniors were Tim
Rock (Pittsburgh, Pa.), Don Smith (San
Antonio, Texas), Kevin Kadesky (Dallas,
Texas), and Matt Ravencraft (Reston, Va.).

 

Spring Sports Schedule

LACROSSE
Mar. 4—VPI HOME
Mar. 10—Navy HOME
Mar. 17—Maryland Away
Mar. 21—Delaware Away
Mar. 24—Towson HOME
Mar. 28—Guilford HOME
Apr. 11—William & Mary Away
Apr. 15—Virginia Away
Apr. 18—Duke Away
Apr. 21—Denison HOME
Apr. 25—UMBC Away
Apr. 28—Washington HOME
May 2—Roanoke Away
May 5—Loyola HOME
May 12—Alumni Game HOME
May 16—NCAA Quarterfinals TBA
May 19—NCAA Semifinals TBA
May 26—NCAA Finals Away
INDOOR/OUTDOOR TRACK

Jan. 21—Virginia Tech Invitational Away
Feb. 4—VMI Relays HOME
Feb. 10—Lynchburg, Roanoke,

Bridgewater HOME
Feb. 25—ODAC Championships HOME
Mar. 17—Richmond Relays Away
Mar. 20—Bridgewater/E. Mennonite HOME
Mar. 24—Towson Invitational Away
Mar. 27—Newport News Apprentice HOME
Apr. 7—Christopher Newport

Invitational Away

Apr. 13—Lynchburg Away
Apr. 21—Mt. St. Mary’s Relay Away
Apr. 27-

28—ODAC Championships Away
May 12-

13—UVa Invitational Away

TENNIS

Mar. 3—Slippery Rock HOME
Mar. 12—Lehigh HOME
Mar. 13—Bloomsburg HOME
Mar. 14—Emory & Henry HOME
Mar. 16—William & Mary Away
Mar. 17—George Washington Away
Mar. 20—Averett HOME
Mar. 2—U. of Richmond HOME
Mar. 23—Christopher Newport HOME
Mar. 24—Salisburg State HOME
Mar. 26—Randolph Macon Away
Mar. 27—VMI HOME
Apr. 9—Stetson Away
Apr. 10—Florida Southern Away
Apr. 11—Rollins Away
Apr. 13—Oglethorpe Away
Apr. 14—Emory Away
Apr. 17—Lynchburg HOME
Apr. 19—Hampden-Sydney HOME
Apr. 21—Mary Washington HOME>
Apr. 23—James Madison Away
Apr. 24—UVa. Away
Apr. 27—ODAC Tournament HOME
Apr. 28—ODAC Tournament HOME
May 2—Radford Away

BASEBALL
Mar. 4—Christopher Newport Away
Mar. 8—VMI HOME
Mar. 11—West Virginia Tech HOME
Mar. 12—Virginia Wesleyan HOME
Mar. 17—Emory & Henry HOME
Mar. 20—Bridgewater HOME
Mar. 22—Lynchburg Away
Mar. 24—Randolph Macon HOME
Mar. 27—Eastern Mennonite HOME
Mar. 28—Lock Haven State HOME
Apr. 10—Virginia Wesleyan Away
Apr. 14—Maryville HOME
Apr. 17—Lynchburg HOME
Apr. 19—Bridgewater Away
Apr. 21—Hampden-Sydney Away
Apr. 25—Eastern Mennonite Away
Apr. 28—Catholic HOME
May 2—ODAC Tournament
Quarterfinals TBA
May 5—ODAC Tournament Semifinals TBA
May 5—ODAC Tournament Finals TBA
May 7—VMI Away
May 12—Alumni Game HOME
GOLF
Mar. 15-
16—James Madison Invitational Away
Apr. 13-
14—VPI ‘Gobbler’ Classic Away
Apr. 23-
24—ODAC Championship Away

 

33

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

~ Tncluding t those visits ts reported i in n this. a
ust President John D. Wilson has now
usted and anor to 29 of W&L's 7 5 al L

| pleted and is announced below. If your 7
chapter i is listed, you may expect to eceiv
| detailed information thro - i re

)

 

April 25°

Please address a
chapter aru or
Sessoms, Director
WEL.

LONG ISLAND. The
acquainted” reception
freshmen and their pare
1983, at the Hempstead
Club. Ken Van de Water, 4

 

    

try

tended by 38 freshmen, pz

ROCKBRIDGE. The char ote!
were guests at a wine and ch
for President John D. Wil (
M. Ballengee and the Board ,

 

  

University Trustees. It was held inthe ©
University Library and afforded local al
ni an opportunity to meet President Wils

and the Trustees while they were on campus,

MID-SOUTH. Approximately 85 alumni
and their wives and dates, as well as parents |
_ of current students from Memphis and
western Tennessee, eastern Arkansas and
the Mississippi Delta, were entertained on
October 27 at the home of Bliss Hicky, ’ "74,

  
 

 

y

kK)

 

 

- President Lee Tinie, 973, handl led <
rangements for the outing along with Rode
dy McCaskill, 75. “You folks put the _
capital C back into Catfish” said Dick
Sessoms, director of alumni programs, in

  

his post-dinner remarks. “Untill sawthis

joint (Murry’ 9) I thought nothing could

   

BALTIMORE. On November L ‘the chapter
gathered i in the city’s new Hyatt Regency —
Hotel at Harborplace to welcome President
and Mrs. Wilson. Chapter President Sam |
Englehart, 73, arranged the reception and
dinner and presided. over the well-attended
occasion. Heading the guest list were
University Trustee Joe Keelty, 44, Trustee
Emeritus Frank Brooks, ’46, and Alumni
Board Director Bill Clements, ’50. The»
Wilsons were accompanied by Dick

ins aiegor of alumni Programs. | :

   
  
   
 
 

ne ati and ‘supported during 4 a question

and 2 answer post-dinner session. Chapter _
ward, 68, was last seen _

     
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
    
    
   
      
    
   
   
  
  
    
 

‘strength. University Trustee Er

ae

   

ee net the lively debate an hour after

 

- dinner! ;

ARIZONA. “Openings on 1 the Desert? a .
party at Rawhide i in Scottsdale, attracted a
large number of Minks on November 5. The
party was jointly sponsored by the alumni —
associations of seven Virginia colleges plus
Duke and UNC. David Ogilvy, 67, coor- _
dinated invitations for the W&L alumni.
W&L’s pro. rata share of the evenings profits
was contributed to the current alumni fund.

 

SAN ANTONIO. The chapter ped Pree
dent John Wilson and Mrs. Wilson as their |
- guests for a dinner meeting on November 16

an Antonio Country Club. President
addressed the audience of alumni

parents on the future of the University

and common concerns about continuing its

  
 

strengths. He also reported on its quality

 

and the impression made upon him by its

tradition and its strong alumni body. Drake

Leddy, ’71, chapter president, chaired the
meeting. He also introduced the new of-
ficers of the chapter to all present. They are

 

_ Chip Flanagan, ’75, president, and Bart
_ Clark, ’78, alumni admissions represen-
tative. University Trustee Houston Harte,

°50, Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, and Buddy

Atkins, 68, were also on hand for the
mene

| HOUSTON. The chapter entertained Presi-

dent and Mrs. Wilson at a dinner meeting
on November 17 at the Houston Country
Club. A crowd of over a hundred and twen-_
ty alumni, spouses, and guests was there to
meet the Wilsons. Chapter President Buck
Ogilvie, 64, presided and introduced Presi-
dent Wilson. During a brief business ses-
sion, Don McFall, ’64, ’69L, presented a
report for the nominating, c ommittee. T The
s elected: presi

 

dent, Rob LaRue, 72; first vice president, I
Bill Wagner, ’70; second vice president,
~ John Anderson, "68; secretary, Jim Baird,
775; , treasurer, Jef ff t Cross, 73; and ie

 

777 President ' Wilson addressed the | -

Houston Chapter on his i impressions of tthe
University and the immediate problems _
which might threaten its continued

 

 

Anderson, °34L, closed the program with a
piano rendition of the “Swing” Trustee Fox
Benton, ’60, Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, and |

_ Buddy Atkins, ’68, were also in attendance.

 

"

Harte,

Hicky’s home in Memphis. —

 

1€ Joseph T. Lykes Jr., Al, Mrs. Lykes, and
Francis, 301, the new chapter Farris Hotchkiss and Dick Sessoms from
_ introduced Wilson forbrief —_—ithe campus.

1 Hotel. Speaker for the event was
Dr. Wilso : Maynard Turk, ’52L, a member of the W&L
on the state of the University includ- nni Board of Directors.
a full discussion of the careful examina-

 

 

 

 

HOUSTON— Officers elected at the November meeting were Jeff Cross, BIRMINGHAM—Sue Ratliff, Kim Ratliff, 76, Bob Reid, ’49, Elberta Reid
‘73, treasurer, Bill Wagner, ’70, first vice president; John Anderson, ’68, se- and Sandy Stradtman, ’77, at the Downtown Club.
cond vice president; Bill Clemons, ’77, AAP representative; and Rob Larue,

°72, president.

  
    
    

PIEDMONT—Timothy Litzenburg, potential class of 2001, seems happy BIRMINGHAM—AIso enjoying the reception and dinner were John
about his “Early Decision” prospects in the arms of Tom Litzenburg, °57, Scruggs, ’°77, Kathleen Scruggs, Trip Wornom, ’77, and Susan Wornom.
and Jayne Litzenburg.

PIEDMONT—Bill Dunker, *55, and Janice and Walter DeGree, 55, are NEW ORLEANS—Nancy Hotchkiss, Hollins, ’82, shares her experiences
among the leaders who will establish an alumni chapter in Greensboro. as an exchange student at W&L with Meg and Hunter Charbonnet, ’76.

EASTERN KENTUCK Y—Showing off his chapter president's hat, Fred NEW ORLEANS—Chapter President Ricky Bates, ’76, (left) with John
Francis, ’39L, entertains David Bisset, ’70, and Walter May, ’71. Carreré Jr, ’69; Claire Carrere; John Sarpy, ’72; and Marybelle Bates.

37

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cece e ee

eoeeeee ee ee

oeeeee eee ee ee

 

ee

_ Class and years of attendance

ee ee ee

eoeeeeeee ee eo ee @ eocoeeeeeeeeee ee ee @ Ce

oo ee ee ee ee ee ew ew oo ec eee eo ee

ee

eo eco eee ee
oo ec eee ee

eeoeeeeeeee

eeee ee ee ee e& © eo oe oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee re rr ee

e

.

re

ee eee ee ee

ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 714.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$130.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$125.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

1915

MILLARD F. Hays has retired from both his educa-
tional career and the insurance and real estate
business. He lives in Glendale, Ky., and stays active
in the Rotary Club and the Christian Church, where
he is a deacon and elder.

1917

CoL. CHARLES R. STRIBLING JR. was honored at the
homecoming ceremonies at the Missouri Military
Academy in Mexico, Mo., on November 5 for his 63
years of service to the school by the Independent
Schools Association of the Central States. His tenure
combined with his son’s tenure represents 100 years
of service including 50 years as president of the
Academy. Stribling became chairman of the board
in 1968 after serving as president of the school, which
he rescued from bankruptcy in 1933. He first came
to the Missouri Military Academy to teach English
and French in 1920 and has served in every leader-
ship role there during his career. The Academy has
earned a reputation as one of the top military prep
schools in the nation. Stribling has served as presi-
dent of the Association of Military Colleges and
Schools of the United States, the Mexico Chamber
of Commerce, Rotary Club and Recreation Corp.,
the Independent Schools Association of the Central
States, the Missouri Chamber of Commerce, and the
Audrian County Hospital Board. He has received the
Mexico Chamber of Commerce’s Community Ser-
vice Award and in 1963 the American Educators
Medal from the Freedoms Foundation of Valley
Forge.

1921

WILLIAM A. GIBBONS JR. continues to work as aright
of way agent for the county of Roanoke, Va.

1923

D. RAYMOND SNIVELY sold over a million dollars
worth of real estate for Bohman and Lindsey, Inc.,
realtors in Hagerstown, Md. He joined the firm in
1980 as a specialist in farm real estate.

1925

BRUCE F. GANNAWAY Serves as promotional director
for Educational Opportunities, Inc., in the state of
Florida. He is a retired United Methodist minister
and has held leadership positions in the United
Methodist Church in Florida for 42 years. Gannaway
and his wife, Marian, live in Lakeland.

1926

W. BURKER WILLIAMSON has moved from Chicago
to Asheville, N.C. He is a member of the North
Carolina Bar but considers himself semi-retired.

1931

MICHAEL LEE, retired sports editor of the former
Long Island Daily Press and the dean of Long Island
sports columnists, was honored on November 20

39

 

 

 

Class Notes

  
  
  
  
 

/ith a reception at Shea Stadium’s Diamond Club.
The day was proclaimed “Mike Lee Day? Six hun-
dred of his friends and admirers attended. Lee was
cited for his ne divsenugh is active support of |

SWEET spent a month fishing in New more than 34) years with the Associated Pressi in Rich-
1g with Bill Sphar, ’ '35, on another trip mond, Va. —

 

 

ROBERT C. WALKER retired 2 as president of United
Virginia Bank Willia gin 1982, but is still ser-
of Will and also work-

  
  

  
 

we

  
 
  
  

organizations. | oo

 
 
 

USE IR. was 1s guest tof honor of ‘the © College ing part time: ng
m and Mary sv boo s luncheon 1 celebrating firm which is active in Georgia, Texas, Florida,
DOOK ttiivwle. |

      
 

Cot. James K. OSTER MAN | :
Army. He recently returned from his fifth t rif

around the swore since a

    
 
   
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
 

2
Ae

| IN W. McGeuee Jr. retired June 30, 1983, after
Nett T. Houston retired in 1983 from the Bechtel 36 years with Richardson-Vicks, Inc., and its
Group of Companies, San Francisco, Calif., after 10 | Predecessor companies. McGehee lives in
years as a senior economist in economic develop- Greensboro, NC 7 |

_ ment work. — —
1944,

~& Adams, Inc., construction managers in Fort SD. Crr PENDEN is author of an article,
- Worth, Texas. He also holds the position of president insurance Industry Litigation: The Bad Faith
for Butcher & Sweeney Construction Co., general ‘Syndrome and Other Issues” which was published
contractors in Fort Worth, Lydick Roofing Co.in in The Arbitration Journal, September 1983,

western Texas and Specialty hai Co. of Arl- Volume 38, no. 3, of the American Arbitration
7 _ ASS oa He lives in Westfield, N.J.

 

| Jor W. Lypicx is chairman of the board for Lydick -

 
   

 
   
 
 

  
   

 

 
 

tion in 28 touuitties, Palmer has an
bod ar Palneee Ghesseceas ue reet
of P - ,

  
    

recently in t\ two books and a 1984, cale

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

ane in various retired “officers Be “military Insurance Co. where he has worked for more than
organizations. | 36 years. He plans to retire in April 1985. Mehorter

FRANCIS L. PATTON has spent a lot of ti lives in Westfield, N.J.

mute and a wath ns ous Li _ |
H H. SmiTH (See 1936.)
7 GRANT E. Mouser Mi is the Amercian Consul

1940 oo SS reral in Hambv g, Germz any, esp onsible for a

AMILTON G. DisBrow JR. retired from the Depart-
ent of Defense Naval Air Propulsion Center,
plrenton, Ny. Jn0 vane 1, 1983, where he was a

  

ducts i in his hometown of Chambersburg, >
Sept. 1, 1983, he entered into a buy-sell
with two of his employees and an outside
For a five year F period he will serve in an

   
    
     
    
 
 
 

  

2sic xdent’s Science Advivary Com-
vard Board of Overseers and the

 
 
  
   

+1936

   

 

e

and co-chairman of the Col imbia Historical _ . a
ety fund raising drive. Smith also works in real i
te and travels extensively. a Exuior S. SCHEWEL was re-elected last fall to a third

term in the Senate of Virginia. He captured 77 per-
1942 — cent of the total votes cast.
-Cuar tes P. Diver has re tired from Kublman Cor- - : - - 1948
poration as viee president ofpublicrelation. = =

| JOSEPH B. Gxven has retired d from service with the

 

 

 

 

firm of Hunton and Williams in their Washington,
DC., offices.

1949

MICHAEL J. BARRETT JR., after retiring from the Air
Force in 1979, resumed his career as the associate
chief of the Air Force Litigation Division in 1981.

D. EARL BROWN Jr. is the associate deputy chief
medical director of the Veterans Administration in
Washington, DC.

WILLIAM E. LATTuRE is retiring as of Dec. 31, 1983,
after 34 years with Blue Bell, Inc., in Greensboro,
N.C. Latture plans to continue to make his home in
Greensboro, but will spend more time at Litchfield
Beach, S.C., and traveling.

JAMES M. REss retired in December after 31 years
with the Timken Co. in Canton, Ohio.

ROBERT C. MEHORTER (See 1944.)

1950

GERARD A. BURCHELL JR. is a biology teacher for the
Spaulding High School in Rochester, N.H. He is also
enjoying success with his mini-apple orchard.

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN continues in the foreign ser-
vice of the U.S. Information Agency. He was assign-
ed in September to Istanbul as USIS chief following
a four-year tour of duty in Washington.

Howarb L. STEELE will complete eight years service
overseas in June and return to Washington, D.C., and
his home agency, the Office of International
Cooperation and Development, in the Department
of Agriculture. Steele has served in Guatemala,
Bolivia, Honduras and presently serves in Sri Lanka.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE is the leasing manager for the
Cherry Hill Office Center in Cherry Hill, N.J. The
complex is owned by Smith Barney Real Estate
Corp., a division of Smith Barney, Harris & Upham.

G. WILLIAM WHITEHURST has recently had a book
published on his career as a congressman covering
the years 1972-77 entitled The Diary of a Con-
gressman. It was published by Donning Company
of Norfolk, Va.

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN (See 1944.)

1951

JOHN K. BOARDMAN JR. was elected president of the
American Furniture Manufacturers Association at
the annual meeting on Nov. 10-13, 1983. Boardman
is president and chairman of Sam Moore Furniture
Industries, Bedford, Va., where he and his family live.

Lewis P. CoLiins III cruised the Caribbean with his
family over the Christmas holidays. His oldest
daughter, Cary, is working on her masters at the

Meeting at the reception for
freshman sons of alumni and their
parents at the Alumni House during
orientation in September are Jack
Barnes, *60, Chesterfield, Mo.;
Charlie Cella, ’58, St. Louis, Mo.;
and John Koedel, ’59, Warren, Pa.
All have sons in the freshman class.

University of Virginia; his middle daughter, Ellen,
is working in Burlington, N.C.; and his youngest
daughter, Betsy, is a freshman at James Madison
University.

ROBERT E. GLENN and Harwell M. Darby Jr., ’75L,
are partners in the Roanoke law firm of Glenn, Flip-
pin, Feldmann & Darby. Maryellen F. Goodlatte,
*78L, and W. Riker Purcell, ’79L, are also associated
with the firm.

SOL WACHTLER, associate judge of the New York
State Court of Appeals, New York’s highest court,
has been elected chairman of the State-Federal
Judicial Council of New York State, a coordinate
body consisting of the federal and state judiciaries
of New York.

MICHAEL J. BARRETT JR. (See 1949.)

1952

G. STEWARD BoswELL, director of government rela-
tions for the American Apparel Manufacturers
Association, will become president of that organiza-
tion on July 1, 1984. He has been in Washington since
1957 with the American Textile Manufacturers In-
stitute and the National Cotton Council. He joined
AAMA in 1979.

CaPT. ROBERT F. CONNALLY III, USN (Ret.) has
taken the position as Chief of Staff and Chief Depu-
ty to the Constable, Precinct -5, Harris County,
Texas.

Dr. GEORGE C. KEMBLE JR. was appointed chairman
of the board of trustees at Dallas Theological
Seminary. He is retired from the practice of or-
thopedic surgery and is director of rehabilitation at

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-
Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
and addresses

the names of the

 

G. RUSSELL Lapp III, ’57
Chairman

Thames & Batre

P. O. Box 189

Mobile, Ala. 36601
205-432-0451

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill five seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and one vacan-
cy on the University Committee on Inter-
collegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the
Alumni Association may submit names of
alumni to the Nominating Committee for
nomination for the offices to be filled.

 

Name Your Candidate

Nominating Committee for 1983-84 are
listed below:

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Beale Eishner, Attorneys

1 N. 5th St.

Richmond, Va. 23219
804-788-1500

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 53
U.S.G.A., Inc.

P. O. Box 1601

Darien, Conn. 06820
203-655-6222

Alumni may send names directly to any
member of the committee or to the com-
mittee through the office of the Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Association at the
University.

The committee will close its report on
April 1, 1984, and present its nominations
to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 12, 1984.

 

 

41

 

Class Notes

All Saints Hospital in Fort Worth, Texas. Kemble also
serves as a a director i First City Bank.

 

Pevoly of Medicine.

JULIAN B. Morr of Atlanta open eda'manul a

_ ing plant in October for Momar Products in
Lumpur, Malaysia. Momar Products is the o1
manufacturer of apaintenance tic ubricantsin A
entire country.

ee -

CHaRLEs ROCKEL, oho broke

room ‘for community theater Pros Act

eg . - ee

1953

; “JAROSLAV DRABEK, who lives ;
3 tink

ity p gene, ar
Munich and. a computer $ spec lg
| Laboratories were among the atten
a counselor with the American —

: ‘ing Co. in New Jersey.
-WiLuiaM A. Hockerr Ir is senior V
Boyden Associates, Inc. During the s
Hocker sailed around Denmark i inas

 

= A new $3 million theater at the State Univ
New York, College at Old Westbury was n
honor of Jonw D. Macure and his wife,
- Maguire was president of Old We

 

| Westbury
1970-81. It was during his tenure that the sn sm
| 3,000 and most of its basic facilites were con:
Maguire is now president of Claremont Uni

Center and Graduate School in Claremont, c Mit

 
   
 

 

ROBERT E. GLENN (See 1951.)

1954 5

o

    

eieesiiaad University.

oa o> wee

  

s been elected a member of

the Institute of Management Consultants and has

 

become acertified management consultant. Schaul

 

| is presid ler
42

- pany located in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. James R.
Stockton Jr., ’57, is chairman ofthecompany. _

   
 
 

-Taomas Cc. KERN and his wife, Naomi, have 7
: established anew business, a wholesale distributor eS
"th |

 

MARRIED: Dr. Nese: Paxton and Sarah
/ pton on Dec. 9, 1983, in New York City. Dr. Pax- _
ton is a professor of modern European history at op

   
 
     

PLaistED III v was s elected < one. 2 of § six
esidents $ for the Society of industria ial

 
 

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

is Vice ns provident of Morton G. Thalhimer.
ich ond dand has been a a member of

York.

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 

on THomas FE Kina Jr. has been elected president and

chief operating officer of Stockton Land Corp., a

   
 

1960

:

dent of the
ion for 1984.
nt in 1977. |

wr)

 

ated resident judge. in "Botetourt ‘and
ridge counties and iad city ¢ * Buena Yet

a fe

larketing Gomihtinieatigue in Media, Pa., pro-

| viding full-service market research and advertising
tof C. R. Schaul & Co., Inc., in Phoenix. —

for clients such as Becton Dickinson (phar-

_ Davip R. Munrok isa partner in the newly establish-
ed law firm of Culver, Lague & McNally in

Muskegon, N Mich.

- 1962 7 ee
Srastey A A. FINK was s installed as s president of the
ion Count ssociation on Dec. 8, 1983. Fink
isa ania in the | law firm of Fink & Rosner of
Clark, N.J._ | ee:

in the firm of Bartlet t&Co,,aC C incinnatt i Anvestme!
inseling firm. His wife, Susan, was also made a
in the firm in July 1983. they « are living in in
Cincinnati with his two sons. :

 
 
 

 
 
 

  

 

COTTON RAWLS JR. i
Connecticut Rehe

 
 

~ Conn., as of Oct. 3, al

PETER S. TRAGER i is in private 2 dental practice i in

Marietta, Ga. He serves as vice president of the Cobb
County Dental Society and chairman of The Coun-
cil of Dental ‘Care, NW. District Dental Society.

   
 

 
   
 
    
  
 
    
 
  
   
   

 
 

 
   
 
 
 
 

  

  
  
    
   

 

  
   
   
 

 

id. He Republic isalaw partner in the Roanoke
firm of Bird, Kinder and Huffman and is owner of
The a clothing st store.

 

 

 

L. N. Miller Jr., ’°66

chief financial officer in 1976. In 1979 he was elected
executive vice president and in 1982 became chief ad-
ministrative officer of the Richmond bank. Miller
and his wife, Elizabeth, live in Richmond with their
two children.

GEORGE W. WoorEN is president-elect of the Virginia
Trial Lawyers Association. He will serve a one-year
term as president effective April 1984.

1967

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. CHARLES M. BRUCE, a
daughter, Mary, in May 1983, in Washington. She
joins an older sister, Laura. Bruce practices law in
Washington.

JOHN R. MILLER was promoted to lieutenant colonel
in the U.S. Army. He is currently serving as executive
officer to the representative of the joint chiefs of staff
at the conventional arms reduction talks in Vienna.
Miller, his wife, Brenda, and children, Lara and Sara,
live in Vienna. He holds masters degrees from the
University of Georgia and the Army’s Command
and General Staff College. Miller is a member of the
Foreign Area Officer Program for the Army.

ROBERT B. Prippy is now a broker with Alex Brown
and Sons in Richmond.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JONATHAN E. ADAMS, a son,
Jonathan C. V., in August 1983. Adams was pro-
moted to chief pilot for Empire Airlines in Utica,
N.Y. He is also a major in the USAF, 109th TAG, New
York Air National Guard. Adams recently opened
a third retail shop, The Owl’s Nest, in Albany. They
live in Fultonville, NY.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. JAMES M. BoyD Jr., a son,
James Moore III, on Oct. 3, 1983. He has an older
sister, Jennifer Ellen. Boyd is a partner in the
Sacramento, Calif., law firm of Kronick, Moskovitz,
Tiedemann & Girard.

N. TAYLOR CARLSON recently became director of
finance of Texocom, a division of Continental
Telecom in Atlanta.

EUGENE R. JACOBSEN III completed the Smaller
Company Management Program at Harvard
Business School in September 1983. Jacobsen is
president of Sterling Textile Services in Washington,
DC. Sterling recently acquired Official Cleaners and
Valet to achieve a SO percent increase in sales.

Eric P. MANTZ is clinical associate professor of
surgery at the Charleston division of the West
Virginia University School of Medicine. He is also
engaged in the private practice of general and
peripheral vascular surgery. He lives in Charleston
with his wife, Sandi, son Bryan, age 10, and daughter
Erica, age S.

FREDERICK A. MEISER JR. earned the Trial Lawyer
of the Month Award in San Diego for his litigation

 

   

F. : A. Meiser os "68

work in an April trial. Meiser specializes in civil
litigation. He has joined with John D. Klinedinst,
’71, ’78L, to form a new San Diego law firm of
Klinedinst and Meiser.

GEOFFREY L. STONE has served as the acting ad-
ministrative director of University Hospital for the
University of Arizona in Tucson since August 1982.

1968

GEorGE E. Honts III (See 1962.)

1969

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ALAN H. Cooper, a
daughter, Amy Woodard, on Oct. 21, 1983, in Rich-
mond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. W. WADE SAMPLE, a son,
Staunton Brevard, on Nov. 28, 1983, in Shreveport,
La. He was named for his grandfather of the class
of 1938.

JAMES R. CARSON III is coordinator of the interna-
tional education program at Pace Academy in
Georgia. Carson led a delegation from Pace to sister
schools in South Korea and Tokyo last summer. He
is an oenologist and has published several poems in
small magazines.

Roy G. HARRELL JR. is a partner in the new law firm
of Baynard, Harrell, Mascara & Oston. Heisalsoa
member of the board of governors and chairman of
the Transportation Council for the St. Petersburg
Area Chamber of Commerce; a member of the ex-
ecutive committee, board of directors and treasurer
of the United Way of Pinellas County; a member of
the board of directors of the Centhenians; chairman
of the attorneys committee of the Florida Savings &
Loan League; and vice chairman of the Savings and
Loan Committee of the Florida Bar.

RONALD G. KINZLER Is practicing law in Philadelphia
with the firm of Freeman and Gershman, specializ-
ing in estate and business planning in Blue Bell, Pa.

RICHARD E. KRAMER has completed his first
semester at New York University, where he is pursu-
ing a Ph.D. in performance studies. He served as
drama instructor during July 1983 at the Rockbridge
Fine Arts Workshop in Lexington. He also teaches
expository writing to undergraduates at NYU.

JERALD L. PERLMAN is a practicing attorney in
Shreveport, La., with the newly formed law firm of
Walker, Feazel, Tooke, Grubb & Perlman.

MICHAEL C. STEVENS will graduate from medical
school at UNC in May and begin psychiatry resi-
dency training. .

1970

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. ROBERT L. ENTZMINGER, a
son, Christopher Paul, on Aug. 10, 1983, in
Blacksburg, Va. Entzminger has also written a book
on Milton’s poetry that will be published in 1984.

CHRISTOPHER D, CouRSEN is a partner in the law firm
of O’Connor & Hannan in its Washington, DC.., of-
fice. He joined the firm Sept. 1, 1983, to establisha
telecommunications practice. He, his wife, Pamela,
and twin boys live in Chevy Chase, Md.

C. GILBERT FRANK is presently chief of newborn
medicine and director of neonatal intensive care at
97th General Hospital in Frankfurt, Germany. He
will be promoted to lieutenant colonel in January
1984.

ROBERT C. LEE is land use planner for the Bristol,
Tenn., Regional Planning Commission. He also had
a one-man show of his recent sculpture and
retrospective photography in Boone, N.C.

Dr. JOHN E. MILLER has been elected rector of St.
Mary’s Episcopal Church in Richmond, Va. He will
be installed in a service to be held in February 1984.
Dr. Miller also serves as an adjunct instructor of
religion at the University of Richmond.

JOHN K. MorsINGER has been named staff attorney
at United Guaranty Corp. in Greensboro, N.C. Mot-
singer is a 1983 graduate of Wake Forest University
School of Law and amember of the North Carolina
Bar.

197]

MARRIAGE: JouN H. KING and Pam Chappell on
July 17, 1983, in Greensboro, N.C. King is in private
practice as a child and family counselor and con-
tinues to work as a self-employed free-lance
photographer. He is completing work for a Ph.D. in
child development and family relations at the
University of North Carolina in Greensboro.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. G. LEE MILLAR III, a
daughter, Margaret Ann, on July 21, 1983, in Mem-
phis. She joins a three-year-old brother, Casey. Millar
is a computer services analyst for First Tennessee
Bank National Corp. headquartered in Memphis.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. E. STAMAN OGILVIE, a Son,
Benjamin David, on Sept. 13, 1983, in Houston.

THOMAS B. HUDSON JR. is practicing law in Austin,
Texas, with the firm of Graves, Dougherty, Hearon
& Moody. Hudson and his wife, Nancy, have an
18-month-old son, Brockett.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST and Frederick A. Meiser Jr.,
°68, formed a legal partnership in San Diego
specializing in civil litigation.

ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE is manager of application
software engineering and scientific programs for
Prime Computer. He is heavily involved in software
for energy and utility companies’ applications.

G. Hoy WIDENER III has started his residency in
ophthalmology in Lexington, Ky. He and his wife,
Ann, have two sons, Justin, age 7, and Colin, age 5.

43

 

 

 

Class Notes

NN recently joined thei interna-

 

tional ere as tax |

 

manager of the Alexandria, Va., 0

MARRIAGE: Ricuarp J. 1. Seur0nr@ and Caro A.
Wiener on Sept. 17, 1983, in Pacific Pa alif.
Splittorf isthe western advertising director for. OF
Appetit magazine in Los Ang
in Playa del Rey, Calif.

daughters, Caitlin in Randolph a ee

    
 

  
     
 
  

 
  

me Mr. ‘ais Mis! C. KELLY , a son,
Justin Parker, on April 11, 1983. Buell is with

Chemical Company in their Cleveland, a Oa of-

fices. They live in Strong ae V rill oe , Ont

 
 
   
  

son, Scott Thomas, on July 20, 1983. |
resides in Garden City, NY. OO

re MR. AND eel PETE

 
 

| Wel cnpe teas i
the feligion department

Dron 75; William ‘Cantler, Bob | 7
Charles Mason and Todd Smith, "84; and David
Sprunt, ’85. The couple resides in Lexi |

 

 

MARRIAGE: Anprew D. STANIAR AaNdN. Jill ape a
biers on Aug. 20, 1983. Attending were Burton B. i

‘Staniar, °63, Lee C. ‘Staniar, ‘67, and Paul B. Kurtz,

 

daughter, Helen Rutle ’ . fukn

Donkle Co., Inc., and

BIRTH: Mr. anv N
Walter Jordan Jr., on

 

 

my Farrar, "74, Gaty Polisi ’
Rick Woodward, ’73, Jack We
son, ’74, Beau Dudley, ’74, "79L, |
and Bob Woodward, °71. They
S.C., where Wolfe is counsel t
Nelson, Mullins, Grier and

 

     
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
    
 

 

Raleigh, N.C. Munt is in the.
pediatrics in Raleigh. ~

RICHARD V. Grimes Jr. was elec

BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. I.
daughter, Catherine ro
Greenville, S.C. Donklei isa

County Board of Regis!

   
     
 
 

    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

 

BIRTH: MR. AND Mrs. W ING, a son,
_ William Tyler, on April 29, 1 olk. Down-
ing is an attorney witht of Wilcox,

Savage, Dickson, Holl Sg

   
    

_ Hoyt, a son,

   
 

   
 
 

 

_ merce in Memphis. /

Association You

. MARTIN E. Sten JR. is nresidént of the American
ciety. Heisa

 

- tH lent at D iSCO ypal Sch ool
of Dallas, a Looe college Preparatory

 
        
     

South in Birmingham. Heisregional sales manager
for the Mason Corp. of Birmingham. Chambliss i is
past president of the American Marketing Associa-
tion and a member of Sales and Marketing

 

| Executives.

Capt. Davip Vv. FINNELL teaches English. at West
Point U. S. . Military Academy.

SREENE has purchased a business in Bir-
mingham, ‘Ala, that import and manufactures
mens and ladies accesso a

 
  

   

#H wey has been assigned to Beirut, |

Lebanon, a: as a ‘acorrespondent for United Press
national. Hagey joined the news agency in 1977 in
Knoxville, Tenn., and has worked at UPI bureaus in
Atlanta, Columbia, S.C., and Washington. He
ae to UPI’s Foreign Desk in New York last |
preparation for his Middle East assignment,
which includes worki ng g out of Cairo, Egypt.

 

 

 
   

Buss Y. icky was promoted to vice president, in
commercial lending of the National Bank of Com-

     

He, his wife, Jan, and two
children live i in Memphis. — |

- Doucras B. Hutton has resigned his position as

Publications Editor at James Madison University to
become an account executive for the North Charles
rganiz: eae reidingina He and his

 

of the labor law committee of the ‘American Bar

ing Lawyers Division. He is also ac-
tive in the Alabama State Bar Association, the Bir-
mingham Bar Association and the Washington and
Lee University Alumni Association. Nolan and

   

  

firm of Constangy, Brooks and S: Smith. 7 : ~

   
   
     

age IDOLPH -TayLor and Margie .
25, , 983, in 1 Washington, DC.

    
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
 

rector of financial planning for Advan.
ational, a Sports s management and

 
 

 
 
 

‘MR V Baro -adaughter,
Virginia Mag, on Oct. 31, 1983, 1 in Houston, Texas.

    

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Dav A. EsTEs, a son, Peter,
on Nov. 8, 1983. Estes is a rate engineer for Con-
solidated Natural Gas Service Co. He lives in Pitt-
sburgh with his wife, Nancy, and children, Holly, 4,
and Davy, 2.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR., a
daughter, Elizabeth Jennings, on March 19, 1983.
Welden is in the private practice of internal medicine
in Birmingham, Ala.

LAWRENCE B. CAHOON is an assistant professor in the
department of biological sciences at the University
of North Carolina at Wilmington. He taught a sum-
mer course at the Duke Marine Laboratory and was
a guest investigator at Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution during the past summer.

T. Barry Davis has been promoted to senior account
manager for Media Networks/3M. He will be
responsible for all national accounts in a six state
area and will represent such publications as Business
Week, Money, Time, and Inc.

LAWRENCE F. LyLEs practices corporate and
securities law with the firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss,
Hauer & Feld in Dallas.

THOMAS B. RAMEY III was promoted in June 1983 to
general manager of KTRE-TV in Lufkin/Na-
cogdoches, Texas.

MITcHEL J. SELEZNICK has completed his internal
medicine residency at Mt. Sinai Hospital and is cur-
rently in the Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars
Program at Stanford University.

HARWELL M. Darsy Jr. (See Robert E. Glenn 1951.)

DONALD T. MCMILLAN (See 1972.)

1976

MARRIAGE: R. STEWART BARROLL and Kimberly
Sherman, on Sept. 17, 1983. Among the groomsmen
were classmates Neil Johnson, Steve Strawsburg,
Michael Wagoner and Lecky Stone. Best man was
the groom’s brother, Marshall Barroll, ’79. Barroll
is an attorney with the firm of Hoon & Barroll in
Chestertown, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. FREDERICK L. BATES, a
daughter, Carra Annise, on June 23, 1983, in New
Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MpRs. DANIEL E. DRENNEN II, a
son, Daniel Edward III, on Feb. 18, 1983. Drennen
practices law with the firm of Lyons, Pipes & Cook
in Mobile, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. BRrucE B. DUNNAN, a
daughter, Victoria White, born Nov. 17, 1983. She
joins an older sister, Adelaide Barrett. The family
lives in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. AnD Mrs. T. HUNT HARDINGE III, a

 

J. LL. Gray Jf.,. 76

son, Thomas Carroll, Oct. 5, 1983. The family lives
in Hagerstown, Md.

Davin S. CaYEnr is the executive assistant to the Assis-
tant Secretary of Agriculture for Governmental &
Public Affairs in Washington.

JOHN L. Gray Jr. was appointed an account super-
visor for Umphenour & Martin, an Atlanta
marketing, advertising and public relations firm. He
will supervise the marketing activities of RTM, Inc.,
the largest licensee of Arby’s Restaurants. Thomp-
son lives in Atlanta with his wife, Emily, and son,
Jack.

R. BROOKE LEwis has joined Shank, Irwin, and Co-
nant, a law firm in Dallas, where he practices avia-
tion law. He was admitted to the Texas Bar on Nov.
14, 1983, and is working on his commercial pilot
rating. Lewis and his wife, Priscilla, live in Dallas.

Mark R. Mavrals moved to Greensboro, N.C.,
where he is sales manager of Siegal Development
Corp. at Brandt Village.

SPENCER W. MorTEN III is now the West Coast sales
representative for Bassett Mirror Co. He and his wife
live in Pasadena, Calif.

B. CRAIG OWENS recently transferred to San Fran-
cisco as controller of the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of
Calif.

PAUL K. STILLWAGON is completing his pediatric
residency at the University of Alabama in Birm-
ingham. In July 1984, he will begin a fellowship in
allergy and immunology at the University of
Pittsburgh.

1977

MARRIAGE: LawRENCE J. LAwson III and Wende
Linthicum Fox on June 11, 1983, in Wilmington,
N.C. Among the groomsmen were classmates Dave
Davis, J.R. Downey and Tom Yancey. Also in atten-
dance were Bob Evans, ’74, Brad Martin, ’74, Lat
Fritz Tellefsen, ’76, Bill Watson, ’77, and Marshall
Weaver, ’77. The couple lives in Chicago where
Lawson is an associate with Blyth Eastman Paine
Webber, Inc.

CaPT. WILLIAM J. CoPLe III has completed a three-
year military assignment with the office of the
Secretary of Defense in the Pentagon as a staff at-
torney to the General Counsel. Cople is now the
Chief Trial Counsel for the Headquarters, U.S. Ar-
my Engineer Center, Fort Belvoir, Va. As senior pro-
secutor in the staff Judge Advocate office, he is
responsible for criminal prosecutions in the Army

 

Engineer Center Brigade, Army Engineer Training
Brigade and the Engineer Officers School. He was
also appointed Special Assistant U.S. Attorney in the
Eastern District of Virginia.

LEON F. JoyNER JR. has been named an associate of
the Society of Actuaries. He is an actuarial assistant
with the Martin E. Segal Co. in Atlanta and is work-
ing toward a master’s degree at Georgia State Univer-
sity. He and his wife live in Marietta.

WILLIAM L. DownING (See 1974.)

RussEL_ L. HEwit (See 1974.)

1978

MARRIAGE: MicHaet T. CLeary and Linda Jane
Reynolds on Oct. 22, 1983. Richard C. Grace, ’78,
was a groomsman. Other alumni attending were
Mark W. Hampton, ’78, Charlie C. Smith, ’79, and
Doug Byrd, ’79. The couple lives in Richmond where
Cleary is with Coca-Cola USA.

MARRIAGE: Sara K. WiANnT and Robert E. Akins
on Dec. 17, 1983. Jonathan S. Lynn, ’75L, performed
the ceremony at Lee Chapel. Others attending from
the law class of ’75 were Virginia Garrison, Caroline
Watts and Amber L. Smith. Wiant is law librarian
and assistant professor of law at Washington and
Lee.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JAMEs G. SHERIDAN JR., a
daughter, Allie Virginia, on Nov. 13, 1983, in
Schenectady, N-Y.

Davin P. Fatcx (See 1980.)

MARYELLEN F. GOoDLATTE (See Robert E. Glenn
1951.)

JOHN D. KLINEDInsT (See 1971.)

1979

MARRIAGE: DantEL G. BEYER and Elaine Zubalik
on Jan. 22, 1983. They live in Birmingham, Mich.,
where Beyer is employed with the law firm of Kerr,
Russell & Weber.

MARRIAGE: Makk S. TRAVERS and Brenda May
Kampf on Nov. 19, 1983, in Lubbock, Texas. Travers
is a buyer in the equipment group of Texas In-
struments, Inc., at the Sherman, Texas, plant.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN C. BOUTIETTE, a son,
Christopher Michael, on April 13, 1983, in Kansas
City, Mo.

STANLEY G. BRADING JR. has become a partner with
the law firm O’Callaghan, Saunders & Stumm in
Atlanta, Ga.

ARTHUR R. CARMopy III was elected an assistant
vice president for Central Fidelity Bank in Rich-
mond. He joined the bank in October 1983 as a per-

45

 

 

Class Notes

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

 

     
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

similar position with | the Fist National Ba
Shreveport.

JOHN A. CRAIG was recently promoted to :
sales manager for U. s. Lines in Norfolk,

   
   

Smith with offices in New Bern

J. GrecorY Morten has
manufacturing furniture h
wife live in Memphis, 1

Gmpert H. PEARSALL Ir R. (See.

MARRIAGE: Epwyy S. |
Hughes on Sept. 3, 1983,
live in Midland where. R
Ist Lr Joun J. Fox. I
Bamberg, Germany, Ar
Flight Detachment the
Switzerland and Italy.
works frequently with
who i is a general’s aide n

          
  
 
   

Te enjoys skiing in
> cold weather. Fox
on Jr,’ °80,

ilo for the U. S.

7 ee

sa 4 trader in the in-
rudential-Bache

RICHARD G, LATTURE received an MA. degree in
Buropean history from the ues ty

 

BIRTH: Satty Pruerr and David P. Falck, “78L,a
daughter, Claire Melissa, on June 17, 1983, in st
Ridgewood, N.J. The family now resides i in n Glen |

Rock. 7

 

oe

 

 

D L. SUTHERL! ND has been named assistant vice
president of Chartercor, a Missouri bank holding
company. —

1982

S. AMY ARBUCHO i is an associate with the law firm
of Cranwell, Flora & Moore in Vinton, Va. She lives |
in Roanoke.

JOHNATHAN W. Bryan is presently stationed at Subic
Bay Republic of the Philippines with the Navy JAG
Corps and: anticipates ae to J japan in June
1984.

 

GRANT ALEKSANDER 2 Kunowskrhas a starring role
as Phillip Spaulding in Kunko CBS 5 daytime drama,

“The one Peat

 
 
 

 

sion role.

Tomas Y. - SAVAGE has recently joined the advisory

      
 
 
 
   
 
   

; oksbure. a |

1983 —

MARRIAGE: Dav E. JENSEN and Pamela Lederer
on Sept. 24, 1983. They live in Herndon, Va. Jensen
is an accountant t for the subsidiary operations
department of Dominio ral Savings endian
Association in McLean. 7

BIRTH: MR. AND Mrs. GoaiaW Swans son,
James Gordon, on Nov. 28, 1983. The family resides
in Wilmington, Del.

 

STEPHEN H. Denny isa buyer for the Corton Trading
Co.,, Inc., i in Tokyo. oe

G. KENNETH Rosinsow bane is a tax Speciale w with the

     

knee injury at

presently working fort the Fort Worth Chamber of.
Commence | |

 

 

 

 

Dr AupREY A. Houser Sr., apracticing physician

died Nov. 19,

  

in Eichmond Stee than 50 years,

 

 

 

In Memoriam

P. Poythress Co., Inc., a pharmaceutical firm he
restored to profitability during the Depression. After

he left W&L, Houser went to Richmond and secured _

a job as an assistant in the physiological chemistry
laboratory at The Medical College of Virginia. He
later headed the laboratory. At the same time, he
enrolled as a medical student and taught
mathematics at the YMCA night school. After he
earned his medical degree in 1911, he went on to build
a flourishing private practice in family medicine,
which he continued until he was well into his 80s.

1911

HERMAN ABRAHAM SACKS, a practicing attorney in
Norfolk, Va., for 72 years, died Dec. 7, 1983. A native
of Lancaster, Pa., he was a long-time resident of
Tidewater, Va. Sacks was the founder and senior
partner of Sacks, Sacks, Sacks and Larkin law firm.
He continued working until his death and was believ-
ed to be the oldest practicing attorney in Virginia.
Sacks was a member of the Virginia Bar Association,
the Norfolk and Portsmouth Bar Association, Nor-
folk Masonic Lodge 1 and Congregation Beth El.

1912

ALLAN McDowE Lt died Aug. 31, 1983, in Kent,
Conn. A native of Lexington, Va., McDowell went
to Connecticut in 1912 as a surveyor. He surveyed and
mapped many of the state’s parks and the lands of
the Connecticut Light and Power Co. He also serv-
edin the U.S. Army during World War I. In 1923, he
entered a new career as a mathematics teacher at
Kent School retiring in 1944. McDowell then started
his own real estate business specializing in restora-
tion and remodeling of old homes. His designs were
popular in northwestern Connecticut with one win-
ning a national competition sponsored by House
Beautiful magazine in which more than 200 ar-
chitects entered. McDowell redesigned the Kent
Town Hall and restored or designed over 100 homes
in the state.

RUFUS OWEN JR., aretired teacher and farmer, died
on Sept. 10, 1983, in Latta, S.C. Owen moved to Latta
in 1965 following his retirement from farming in
Cluster Springs, Va. He was a ruling elder in the
Spring Hill Presbyterian Church in Cluster Springs.
During World War I, Owen served with Company G
of the 116th Infantry, a special French speaking unit
requested by General Pershing for duty in France.

1917

ROBERT RHEA KANE, retired counsel for Radio Corp.
of America, died on Sept. 25, 1983, in Chatham, Va.
Before joining RCA, he was a hearing examiner for
the Federal Trade Commission and then general
counsel for Fleischmann Yeast Co. Kane was a
veteran of World War I, amember of the Virginia Bar
and of the Pearisburg (Va.) Presbyterian Church.

1923

SAMUEL BONNER Kirpsy JR., a retired attorney, died
Oct. 25, 1983, in Winter Park, Fla.

1925

JEROME DESHARPE REYNOLDS, owner of Reynolds
Hardware, died Oct. 2, 1983, in Tupelo, Miss. He was
a member of the Calvary Baptist Church, past presi-
dent of the Tupelo Rotary Club, and past president
of Yoconoa Council Boy Scouts.

1928

BERN KENNEDY BULLARD Jr., a retired instructor
and director of the interior design department of the
Ringling School of Art, died on Aug. 5, 1983, in
Sarasota, Fla. He also retired in 1971 asa partner in
The Interior Shop in Sarasota, where he was an in-
terior designer working in commercial and residen-
tial interiors and furnishings. Bullard earned a degree
from the Parsons School of Design in New York in
1932.

1929

WILLIAM E. WALLACE La PETRA, a retired president
of the Real Estate Exchange, died May 21, 1980, in
Park Ridge, N.J. in 1933, La Pietra earned an LL.B.
from the New Jersey law school, now part of Rutgers
University.

1932

ROBERT FRANCIS STURGIS, president of Ackermann’s
Department Store, died May 22, 1983, in
Wachapreague, Va. He was a resident of Elgin, III.

1936

ROBERT MILLER Brown died April 21, 1983, in Pitt-
sburgh, Pa. He was retired from the United States
Steel Corporation.

1938

THE REv. CHARLES BRANDT TEFFT died on April 23,
1983, in East Lansing, Mich. Tefft earned his B.A.
degree from Ohio State University and his B.D. from
the Yale Divinity School in 1944. He established the
Brandt Tefft Foundation in East Lansing for study
of the Bible.

1940

WILLIAM LEROY BURNER JR., a retired employee
benefits director of the National Railway Labor
Conference, an industry organization, died Oct. 10,
1983, in Alexandria, Va. Burner was a native of Fort
Monroe, Va. While on the W&L campus he was a
member of Phi Beta Kappa. After graduation, he
moved to Washington and joined the Bureau of In-
formation Southeastern Railways, a predecessor
organization of the NRLC. He served in the Army
during World War II.

194]

EMIL CHARLES RASSMAN, a retired Midland, Texas,
attorney, died on Dec. 3, 1983, in Dallas. He was liv-

ing in Rockport, Texas, at the time of his death.
Rassman was a partner in the Midland law firm of
Rassman, Gunter and Boldrick and past chairman
of the board of the Texas State Bar. He had been a
president of the West Texas Chamber of Commerce
and the Texas State Chamber of Commerce.
Rassman served as chairman of the Board of Regents
of the Texas State University System from 1967-69.
For his service to higher education, Rassman was
awared an honorary Doctor of Law degree by Baylor
University in 1977 and recently had the Business-
Computer Science building at Angelo State Univer-
sity named in his honor. He was a former member
of the board of directors of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association, the board of trustees of the
Midland Independent School District, the Permian
Basin Petroleum Museum, and numerous other civic
and charitable organizations. A life member of the
Texas State Historical Association, Rassman had ex-
tensive collections of the Civil War, Robert E. Lee
and Texas history, totalling several thousand volumes
which he donated to the library of Angelo State
University in 1976. He was active as a vestryman,
warden and Sunday school teacher in the Episcopal
Church. Rassman was a decorated veteran of World
War II, who rose from private to captain with the
32nd division of the U.S. Army in the Pacific. He
earned his law degree from the University of Texas
in 1947.

1942

EDWARD CALOHILL BuRKS, a member of the
Washington bureau of the New York Times, died on
Dec. 11, 1983, at his home in Manassas, Va. A World
War II veteran who achieved the rank of captain,
Burks started his career with the Lynchburg Daily
Advance. He progressed to the Baltimore Sun,
serving three years on the staff in Bueno Aires and
the Caribbean. Burks then worked for the Times in
New York and Bonn where he covered the Hungarian
revolt against the Soviets. Last year he earned a
master’s degree in history from George Mason
University. During his career he covered sports, na-
tional and foreign news and was fluent in six foreign
languages.

1945

RUSSELL W. INGHAM JR. died in May of 1983. He was
the owner of Russell’s Fine Foods.

Dr. Davip Mactyn NowELL, practicing obstetrics-
gynecology in Dalton, Ga., died in 1981.

1950

JAMES A. CONNELLY JR., resident vice president of
the Florida regional office of Aetna Life & Casual-
ty, died January 1983.

1978

RICHARD JAY REED Jr., a native of New Orleans,
La., died Oct. 25, 1982. Reed was a cum laude
graduate in philosophy at Tulane University and was
attending L.S.U. Medical School.

47

 

 

And furthermore

Letters to the Editor

 

"My copy of the Novem Der I

 
 
     
      
      

provide a a forum inv which
municate with each other :

  
  

relevant: I
t an all-male
1 to become

 

d the spirit an this alumnus. With all
y respect for person and office, the
contained in the paper are a
ofa recurring clarion call to em-

taught for a numbérs of
Eastern pea whi

   
 

social climate of 7

 

 
  
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 
    
   
     
 

mae ee nO}

also supports the co!
and Lee loses many «
° because it is a single

son refused to cor
reason and went to: a

ution; my own
anda negative. lying for that
vironment is the all-
absence of this forecast tl
reasons for having c oed
main at peace in the cal
speculation t to “which they”

 

Pil be damned if a simple
trapolation will push me to such e3
The decline in college en roll
challenges our will and resourcefulness. -
will always have a place in our hearts and ~
minds. An all-male W&L can have a place in

our future when we meet the challenge.
Pawning W&Ls identity i is another way to
solve the problem. But, what a price to pay —
/Micnast Gurioan, ’74
_ Stamford, Conn.

 

 

 

 

university. I would also have coveted the
possibility of my ‘daughter’ s being able to
apply to W&L.)

‘Finally, I hope that the crucial decision
about coeducation will not be determined by
the somewhat nostalgic and unrealistic desire
of some alumni to keep the University “like it
was in our day” or by the reluctance of some
students to face the long-rz nge ye implications of

 
 

 

their desire to keep the status quo. I trust that

the Board of Trustees will decide that the
University should offer a hive! Preparation
for living in the 21st Ce by edu cating.

e

and women the undergrad

 

Editor: ee atin
A think youaredoinga an 2x lent at j

  
  
 
 

the school, eS ) ecially
| | H IRISTOPHER L. SIsTO, 89
Amherst, Mass.

Editor: de: | i

“ Iwantto emphasize th that the emingazine ear
ried an excel a article on the issue of
coeducation. a

 

JAMES E. Kocx, 77
Palo Alto, Calif

    
    
   
 

Pleasant F Remin ler SS

Editor:

Your ten issue was super! I read i it
from cover to cover in one le sitting because I

| ae minister,
or of See dean of

D E BR RANson, °53
"Cedar ar Rapids, Iowa

= =— ” a -

 

 

Help Us Reach Prospective Students

 

July 1 - July 27

A College Preparatory Program
Jor Rising High School Seniors

Courses in Business, Computers, English, History,
Journalism, Politics, Psychology, and Sociology

With Supervised Recreational
and Social Activities

For further information, contact:
Dr. Robert Fure
Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

ze seed BOGEN OF Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY gton, Virg

And Additional Mailing Offices
(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww |

CL,

037556

a

a

oS

a.

~J

<<

xo

Do
om
it

ee

—

<i

oS

» oe
=

211 RALSTON RD

RICHMOND VA

23229

 

