the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

 

a

 

 

Inside: The Coeducation Decision

 

 

JULY 1984

 

 

Lf

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 59, Number 4, July 1984

Frank A. Parsons, "54... 630. ce ee ee ca Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna..................... Associate Editor
Robert: Furé {6 3035 oe cn ces. Contributing Editor
JOVCETTAUIIS foc ee ek eee aa cae Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas ................. .... Editorial Assistant
We Paick'Tillicly, 73....:.:- 0 sn bere ye Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Trustees’ Statement .......00..s.000c50550 0 1
The Historic Moment .......4....ccccreadseenecescnnee 3
‘‘Childréen’’ of Alummi.....¢0..0:...2/53550, ee 8
A Trustee’s Perspective .............. <i 9
Message from the Alumni President .................. 13
On Evolution 3...0..¢.0.260c0eebee cece ieee ee 15
Commencement 1984 .........0...:c001eseceeese tees eens 16
Not a Sob Stoty :....:.60.5c2000025-02) ay eee 21
Graduating Sons of Alum ................0ceeeeeeeeees 25
Report from BOrneo .............scceseceeeeeeeceeseeeeess 26
New Alumni Board Members ................eeeeeeceees 29
WEL Gazette ....0ccecccesecucmeee ele ue 31
Chapter News .......scscc deepest tere ee 39
Class NOtéS ......:c05ssduepeiauieerceeb co eee erence sees 40
In Memoriatit ...6)5.ciieseeeecd een ee 47
And furthermore «io: .cc.s2elaesual awe tis eeu 48

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas.

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,

Virginia 24450. Allcommunications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt JR., 59, Atlanta, Ga.
President

JAMES W. McCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, 50, New York, N.Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, 59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. Nat BAKER, ’67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F. CARRERE JR., 69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. Fo.Lsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD JR., ’69, Dallas, ‘Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., 65, ’72L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
HENRY NortTserc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
RicE M. TiLey Jr., ’58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, 752, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, 62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: Graduating senior Charles Mason turned
a few heads with the homemade sign on the back of his gown.
Exactly what did that sign mean? Probably not what you think.
For an explanation of the sign and a profile of amost unusual
alumnus, see page 21. Photograph by W. Patrick Hinely, *73

 

 

 

pee

  

 

  

 

c trends

 

  

 

 

 

O

 

 

 

broad demograp

   

5
| é

 

     

 

 

 

to evi

 

Ilbes

@

S Wl

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is

SS

SS

ee
me

seg
4 > ie
rn

- / - a /
ae — 7

SS
Oo

oe |
-

 

 

Historic Moment

 

Rector Ballengee

of anticipation. They had arrived in Lexington by noon on
Friday to convene the special meeting. They heard addi-
tional reports from committees on Friday afternoon, ad-
journed for dinner at the Keydet-General motel, and then
resumed their discussions around the dinner table.

When they finally called a halt to the debate around 11
p.m., many Trustees still had not made up their minds on
the issue.

One Trustee confessed he had not decided which way he
would vote until 4 o’clock Saturday morning.

Reminded of that Trustee’s remarks at the news con-
ference, James M. Ballengee, rector of the Board, wryly
observed: “Yes, I heard that Trustee up walking around out
at the motel. I was awake myself?’

Clearly, the Trustees were not exactly sleeping on the
matter.

The final session began at 8:30 a.m. Saturday. The ad-
ministrative staff members who customarily attend Board
meetings—the deans, treasurer, admissions director, univer-
sity relations director, and assistant to the president—had
anticipated an executive session of the Board, augmented
only by the past and current presidents of the student body
and the alumni association. Instead, the Trustees agreed to
invite them to attend the historic session. ‘“They had been
involved in the process from the start,’’ said Ballengee.
‘“‘There was no sense excluding them at the end.’’

The motion came to the floor at 10:40 a.m. Rector
Ballengee called for discussion, asking each Trustee for one
final statement on the question.

For the next hour as they went around the table one by
one, the 22 Trustees who attended the meeting* set out their
positions one last time. Some spoke from prepared
statements or notes, others made their remarks extem-
poraneously. All spoke words that were deeply personal,
often highly emotional. Those who were in the room but
not part of the vote were struck by the combination of can-

 

Sees
SSN 2
ee Seen,

Dr. Shannon (left) and President Wilson

dor and thoughtfulness of those remarks, which reflected
the care with which the Trustees had examined the issue.

At 11:45 a.m. the question was called. Secretary
Whitehead read the roll. Two of the votes—T. Hal Clarke’s
from Ireland and J. Alvin Philpott’s from North
Carolina—were by phone.

Though the Board’s rules call for only a simple majority
on such votes, the Trustees had determined beforehand that
this question would need to be resolved by more than a sim-
ple majority.

Explained Ballengee: ‘We determined in advance and
by general agreement that this decision of such importance
and significance could not be adopted by what one would
call a slim majority, that it required something more than
that.”’

And though he declined to say precisely what the
Trustees had required for themselves, the 17 to 7 margin ex-
ceeded that bottom line. The motion carried.

After almost an hour during which a statement an-
nouncing the Board’s decision was completed and news
releases were prepared, Ballengee, President John D.
Wilson and two Trustees—Dr. Edgar Shannon Jr. and
Justice A. Christian Compton—left the library for a news
conference in The Commerce School Building.

As an indication of the interest that had been generated
in the issue, the lecture hall was almost filled with media.
W&L’s campus radio station, WLUR-FM, broadcast the
news conference live. Since the conference was designed for

 

*Trustees T. Hal Clarke of Atlanta and J. Alvin Philpott of Lexington,
N.C., were unable to be on the campus for the meeting, but both voted in
absentia by telephone—Clarke from Ireland, Philpott from North
Carolina. Tom Wolfe, who was elected to the Board in January, has been
unable to attend any meetings because of deadline pressures from his
book. He has not yet been sworn in as a Trustee and did not participate in
the special meeting or the vote.

 

Reid Hall audience awaits the word.

media and the room was not large enough to accommodate
others, arrangements were made to show the event live on
television monitors in nearby Reid Hall. The Ring-tum Phi,
the campus newspaper, had summoned a skeleton staff
back to the campus in order to publish a special ‘‘Extra”’
edition which would go in the mail to all students two days
later.

Ballengee’s announcement came at 12:50 p.m.:

“The Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity today approved by a 17 to 7 vote the following resolu-
tion: ‘Resolved, that Washington and Lee University shall
admit qualified students, regardless of gender, to all of its
degree programs commencing in the fall of 1985.’ ”’

Those watching on the TV monitors in Reid Hall
cheered the news. Several of the students who had opposed
coeducation shook their heads sadly.

The word was out. And it spread quickly. The Universi-
ty switchboard, which was opened just to answer inquiries,
was flooded with calls for the next four hours.

After reading the Board’s entire supporting statement,
Ballengee opened the floor to questions. And for the next
35 minutes, the media probed the decision and its ramifica-
tions, asking many questions that had been anticipated but
some that had not.

Primarily those questions were: Why? And, how?

First, the whys.

The Board statement had stressed a ‘‘foremost” convic-
tion that ‘“‘the educational benefits of the University should
be extended to men and women undergraduates alike.’’ The
statement went on to say that “the education of tomorrow’s
leaders in the learned professions and in the corporate
world will be strengthened by the presence in our
classrooms and laboratories of men and women of talent,
ambition, and character. ”’

But the reporters wanted to know the role that
demographics had played in the deliberations. They asked

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WLUR-FM'’s live coverage

how coeducation might alter W&L’s appeal to prospective
students. And they were told the national pool of ap-
plicants is shrinking and will continue to shrink. By re-
maining all-male, Washington and Lee would continue
limiting itself to half the available pool.

Moreover, one important element in the Trustee study
was a survey of 400 high school guidance counselors. In
that survey the counselors made it clear that a large majori-
ty of the male students in those secondary schools refused
even to consider Washington and Lee because of the all-
male policy.

Noted Ballengee: ‘‘Not very long ago there were maybe
a couple of hundred all-male schools in this country with
80,000 students. It’s down to five now with no more than
8,000 in total. That looks like a product that isn’t very
much in demand to many people.’’

But as Wilson observed in response to a question, the
issue of demographics, though certainly a part of the
discussion, was by no means ail of the discussion—perhaps
not even the major part.

‘We were looking at the total future health, vitality,
and character of the University as measured
against . . . changes in the larger society,’’ Wilson said.

Those changes had been mentioned in the Board’s for-
mal statement which referred to “the widening respon-
sibilities assumed by talented women in our time.’’

Too, Wilson stated his belief that the University would
benefit as much from the presence of women as women
would benefit from their presence at the University—an ex-
traordinarily important observation.

““We do have something special here,’’ said Wilson. “I
don’t think it is self-serving to say that. . . . There is a spirit
alive on this campus, a spirit of humaneness. We do
cultivate notions of integrity and honor and character here
that are very, very important, it seems to me, to match up
with our superior teaching and learning program. We

 

Historic Moment

Rector Ballengee (left) listens to Justice Compton’s remarks.

believe that these values that are so important to
Washington and Lee can and will be enjoyed by women
equally and that they will help to contribute to sharpening
them and to making them as much a part of our future as
our past.’’

Throughout the debate and the Trustees’ study there
had been constant references to the “‘intangibles”’ of the
Washington and Lee experience. In his remarks at the news
conference Wilson made it plain that neither he nor his
fellow Trustees had taken the notion of such “‘intangibles’”’
lightly.

“I confessed to the Beard that as late as last night I had
sleepless hours in testing what might be gained and what
lost (by coeducation),’’ said Wilson. “There are in-
tangibles, as you know, that are hard to wrap language
around. But the spirit, the magical quality of life here, the
way the faculty open themselves up to students and student
needs and are accessible day in and day out, careful atten-
tion to teaching, accompanied by a commitment to
scholarship—these are the valuables that live here and that
we fully expect will be attractive to women and will be con-
tributed to by the women we admit here.”’

Quality was always the key issue—the quality of the
students, the quality of the educational process, the quality
of the environment.

That is not to say there was agreement that coeducation
would assure that quality. Within the Trustees as within the
alumni, the students, and the faculty, there were opposing
viewpoints. Justice Compton spoke of those when he told
the news conference that he had voted against the proposal
because he felt “‘we have in place at this University a fine-
tuned educational machine which is providing a high quali-
ty education in a single-sex atmosphere.”’

And yet Compton quickly added that the Trustees’ an-
nounced statement of unified support for the decision was
accurate when he said:

6

‘“‘The decision has been made. There is no appeal. Those
of us who love and support Washington and Lee. . .will
work just as hard to make coeducation another positive
factor as we worked against the proposal to coeducate.”’

The hows were less easily answered. How much will it
cost? How much will the physical plant have to be altered?
How many women will be enrolled? How will various areas
of the University—athletics, fraternity life—be altered?

How will the University set out to unify its constituencies in
light of a decision on an issue that had so clearly been
divisive?

For starters, the Trustees have asked that a Committee
on Coeducation be established on the campus. That com-
mittee will be composed of members of the administration,
faculty, and student body (both law and undergraduate) and
will work closely with the Trustees’ Executive Committee.
Many of those unanswered questions as well as questions that
are sure to arise will be addressed by that committee.

At the outset, plans are to aim for about 80 women
students in the class that enrolls in the fall of 1985.

Wilson referred to “fan evolutionary development” dur-
ing which “‘we have as a primary value the intimacy of our
academic environment. We are not anxious to see this
undergraduate enrollment expand very markedly. So we’ve
had a kind of working idea that between 1,350 and 1,500
undergraduates would be as far as we’d want to go by the
year 1995, let us say. Within that general target, again to be
refined, we would hope to see as many as 500 women in
residency by the end of that decade. Then we'll take another
look as an administration, a faculty, and as a Board finally
to see what evolutionary steps beyond that need to be
taken.’’

As for facilities, the major concerns will be the con-
struction of a new residence hall—a project under con-
sideration regardless of the coeducation decision—and
renovation of gymnasium locker room facilities. Those,

 

ee ‘dif iff
a

METHHTHES

ident Cole Dawson

   

none

Executive Committee Pres

noted Wilson, represent the major capital undertakings
with preliminary estimates of about $4 million for a dor-
mitory with 200 beds and $150,000 for gymnasium
renovations.

Wilson said that ‘“‘we do not expect any diminution in
our men’s varsity athletic commitments, but we do an-
ticipate an evolutionary development of women’s inter-
collegiate sports. And that will probably require our mov-
ing up on the schedule the installation of one or two more
outdoor playing fields.’’

In terms of personnel, the athletic department would re-
quire the most adjustment with the possibility of three ad-
ditional staff members.

Asked specifically whether the University plans to add
additional women faculty members, Wilson said: “I very
much hope that our recent successes in attracting talented
women to the faculty will continue. We will have to do that
obviously in special ways to meet our policy commitment
today. . . . Though we don’t anticipate serious dislocations
of enrollment between fields because men and women to-
day are as apt to share an interest in premedicine or pre-law
or commerce and journalism as well as the liberal arts and
sciences. But nonetheless, as faculty vacancies open we’re
going to be even more acutely committed in the future, as
we have been in the past, to attracting women.’’

On the subject of fraternities, Wilson said that the
University does have a commitment to the fraternity
system. Though he declined to predict whether coeducation
might result in a reduction of the number of W&L’s 17
fraternities, he admitted that was a possibility, “but it
would be only through natural attrition, not through
policy. ’’

One of the Trustees’ primary concerns throughout the
study involved the acceptance of coeducation by the
University’s primary constituencies. Ballengee noted that
the Trustees’ survey of alumni opinion had played a signifi-

 

2

A room full of media at the news conference

cant role in the study, particularly the general alumni feel-
ing that the University’s academic standards must not be
allowed to deteriorate.

Added Ballengee: ‘“‘We think that strong reservoir of
love and affection for this place will override (the alumni’s)
emotional feeling that ‘we’d like Washington and Lee to be
the way it was when I was there.’ ”’

As for the student response, Wilson said he would rely
heavily on the leadership of the student government,
especially Executive Committee President Cole Dawson of
Houston, in the coming year.

Dawson was a participant in the Trustees’ final delibera-
tions on the subject and made a strong statement in favor
of coeducation during the special meeting, admitting that
his thinking on the issue had changed dramatically during
the discussions.

In a letter to the student body in the special issue of The
Ring-tum Phi, Dawson wrote that he is “confident that ad-
mitting women is a positive move and one that will make
W&L a stronger institution in the future.’’ He also told his
fellow students: ‘““We have so much to gain with a positive
attitude.’’

When the formal news conference ended, the par-
ticipants lingered outside the Commerce School Building,
chatting casually with faculty members and students who
had been watching the proceedings on the nearby TV
monitors.

Thirty minutes later the campus was as quiet as it
always is on summer Saturdays, deserted except for the oc-
casional tourists who wandered, guidebooks in hand, from
the Lee Chapel to the Colonnade to the back campus.

One set of tourists, a husband and wife from Colorado,
had been made aware of the historic events of the after-
noon. Asked her reaction to that news by a reporter, the
wife said: “I think I’m going back to college and enroll here
in the fall?’

Ss,

a

ee Oo

 

a

ae

a

aoe st
. 7 7

.

ra
oo
a

a
-

 

 

 

-

.

Mer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

.
/

 

 

£

     

   
  
 
   
 

   

 

 

 

 

 
 

Lh
Lo

     
  
     
  
  
   

oe

re

_
.

 

ee nee ale oe

 

rr

 

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

q

 

 

 

 

 

 

“coeducation would result in strongly positive changes oc-
curring throughout the social and extracurricular life of the
University.’ This conviction is shared not only by most
faculty members but also by the administration and prob-
ably by most of the students.

Without questioning for a moment the sincerity and
depth of feeling conveyed to all of us by the dozens of
alumni who have written to express their views, I believe
that our responsibility as Trustees is not to protect the
alumni’s perception of what W&L was like when they were
here—although f think we hope we do that. Rather, it is to
do whatever is necessary to foster an atmosphere and ex-
perience which best results in our institutional purpose be-
ing achieved. After all, would not ‘those same alumni who
oppose coeducation so vocally now be even more upset if
we permitted W&L to decline in quality? Ana are they not
likely to be more proud and supportive of a high-quality
coeducational university than a mediocre all-male
university?

We must find a way, as Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling (head
of the department of English) suggested in his letter to
President Wilson, to combine properly the concepts of be-
ing “distinctive” and “distinguished.’’ We could be
“distinctive” as an all-male institution that was second- or
third-rate, but we would not be “distinguished.’’ We can be
“distinctive” as a coed institution if we “distinguish”
ourselves by the quality of our academic program and by
the encouragement and appreciation of the values and
traditions which we all believe are so much a part of the

 

Charles Mason Photo

W&L experience we want to preserve and which frequently
are not a part of the experience found at other institutions.

Therefore, when Jack Warner says, “Dare to be dif-
ferent!” I would respond: “At what cost and at what loss of
opportunity?” Do we invest our energy and our talent and
our funds trying to be better—or use them up trying not to
get worse?

Perhaps those who say “‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” are
really saying that nothing has changed at Washington and
Lee.

l. But it is a change that the academic quality of our
students is declining. Our SAT scores are down more than
the national average and more than our competition. The
comments about student quality contained in faculty letters
to President Wilson, and subsequently conveyed to us, are
alarming.

2. And it is a change that, sociologically, the role of the
female in the United States during this last third of the 20th
century is dramatically different from what it has ever been
before in the history of this country—indeed, in the history
of the world—and there is no suggestion that this is only a
fad that will go away. In that regard, a case can be made
and should be made that it is poor judgment (and maybe
worse) to deny W&L’s special qualities to talented, effective
females who are and will be so important a part of the
leadership of this nation in the future.

3. And it is a change, demographically, that the number
of college-bound students will be in a dramatic decline for
many years ahead and that the competition for that smaller
number of students is increasing. The financial aid
packages available to students from private and state
universities are impressive and are an indication of what the
marketplace will reflect even more intensely in the future.

4. Finally, but importantly, it is a change, again —
sociologically, that there is less and less interest among
college-bound students—especially males—in attending
single-sex institutions. In this environment, W&L is increas-
ingly perceived to be weird, not just different, and not just
an educational alternative. Young people today are more
sophisticated and aware than ever before, and they feel a
nced to be compatible with this changed world.

What aa! believe it will mean to Washington and Lee
University to remain all male?

1. Basically, that we will spend our energy and our
funds simply trying to hold on, trying to prove to the world
and to ourselves that we are something special, and having
fewer and fewer believe us as our own self-doubt increases.

2. We will lose market share and be forced to take more
students of lesser quality, then we will begin to lose our fine
faculty, and eventually we will lose our reputation. Already
we have alumni telling us that they are not impressed by the

11

 

want to keep includ
Williams, Dartmouth,

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Charles D. Hurt Jr.

Focusing on the Alumni Viewpoint

A Message from the Alumni Association President

This is my first opportunity as President of the Alumni
Board of Directors to communicate with you. It comes at
an extremely active and strenuous time for Washington and
Lee University and for our Alumni Association. The debate
of the highly-emotional coeducation question has sparked
endless hours of conversation among Trustees, alumni,
faculty, administration, students and friends of W&L
everywhere, and countless letters and telephone calls.
Alumni interest and activity have never been greater. In-
telligent and loyal alumni have disagreed with each other.
Yet, out of this activity, the genuine and unrestrained affec-
tion and love for our University by you has shown through
in innumerable ways. Thus, in spite of the time, I am cer-
tainly honored and pleased to have this opportunity to
make several comments on “The Decision” from the Alum-
ni Board’s view.

By the time you receive this issue of the Alumni
Magazine, you will have already heard of the Board of

Hurt faces a battery of reporters after the news conference.

Trustees’ decision on coeducation in the undergraduate
school. Elsewhere in this magazine you will find detailed
information concerning that decision. The decision will not
be popular with all alumni. Any decision, pro or con,
would not be, as the question has caused both rational and
emotional feeling on both sides. Thus, I think it is impor-
tant to place some focus on the decision solely from the
alumni viewpoint.

First, the decision was made by the Board of Trustees,
not by the administration, nor the faculty, nor the alumni,
nor the students. The Board of Trustees is charged with the
fiduciary responsibility of insuring Washington and Lee’s
continuance as an excellent, small, academically-selective
liberal arts institution, with our Honor System, quality
faculty and low student-faculty ratio, and the other
qualities which make W&L unique. Carrying out that
responsibility of insuring the best that Washington and Lee
can be for the future generations is, and certainly in the last

 

13

Alumni Viewpoint

year has been, an awesome burden. The Board has decided
what it thinks is best for W&L, not what it thinks the
popular or easy decision would be.

Numerous facts and factors were necessarily obtained
and considered by the Board of Trustees in making what I
am convinced is the most difficult decision the Trustees
have ever had to make. As important as any consideration
was the combination of the opinions, feelings and sugges-
tions of our alumni. Before some of you snort, I ask you to
think about that for a moment. Our Board of Trustees is
composed almost entirely of alumni. Twenty-two of the 25
members of the Board are alumni. Five of those 22 have
been elected to the Board by the alumni ballot system.
Unlike many other such boards, our Board of Trustees
reflects the same experience, affection, and concern for the
University as do we all. None of us has been bashful about
letting the Trustees know what we think, and throughout
the process of dealing with the decision over the last year, I
have been particularly struck by the fact that the Board of
Trustees in miniature reflects the entire Alumni
Association.

The Board of Trustees, and the administration, gladly
adopted every suggestion made by the Alumni Board for
communicating with and informing alumni of all aspects
of the coeducation question. This was done through the
publication of letters, articles, and reports in the Alumni
Magazine, through personal letters to every alumnus from
Jim Ballengee, the Rector of the Board, through personal
responses to your letters and calls, and through the detailed
alumni survey mailed to each of us this spring. More im-
portantly, the Board of Trustees listened. Your responses, in
whatever form they came, have been not only appreciated
but considered. The survey is an example. That was mailed
to each of our 16,500 alumni all over the world, and at last
count 6,697 responses had been received, tabulated, and
analyzed. That response I think is amazing, particularly
because completing the survey took time and thought. The
Board spent considerable time studying the survey’s results,
which were compiled in the form of a 192-page report.

The Alumni Board has been kept fully informed at
every step. Copies of all communications on the question
and all reports were given to us. I have read all of your let-
ters, as well as talking with many of you personally. So have
all the members of the Alumni Board. In addition, both
Peter Agelasto, whom I succeeded, and I have been invited
to and have attended all of the meetings of the Board of
Trustees over the last year, including the executive sessions
of the Board. Both of us have had continuous and ample
opportunity to communicate with the Board of Trustees,
individually and as a whole. I can thus assure you that Peter

14

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Agelasto’s and my ideas and opinions, the official expres-
sions of the Alumni Board, and each of your communica-
tions were carefully considered within the total mix of all
the factors involved in the Board of Trustees’ decision. It
can’t be said too often that your letters, calls, survey
responses, advice and opinions, and all the other support
were carefully considered, and appreciated.

A number of factors are intertwined to make
Washington and Lee unique, to the students, faculty, ad-
ministration, and alumni. Your Alumni Board has become
acutely aware of these factors over the last year. Many of
the factors are reflected in the responses to the survey. At
the top of the list, from our viewpoint, is the genuine in-
terest in, appreciation of, affection for, and support of the
University. I was at a dinner years ago which by pure hap-
penstance was attended by W&L alumni from a number of
different decades, and, after a whole evening of war stories
and recollections, we finally left hearing the poor hostess
remark, ““They must put something in the water in Lex-
ington which affects you all for life.’’

As alumni, our expectations of Washington and Lee are
exceedingly high. Look at the alumni survey results. We
value the quality of the faculty, the close student-faculty
ratio, the Honor System, our academically selective admis-
sions policy, our strong academic program, our size, and
the many intangible qualities of the Washington and Lee
experience. The Board of Trustees deeply values the same
things. The Trustees are committed to assuring that
Washington and Lee will continue to have all those special
qualities that make it unique and us proud. Whether we as
individual alumni agree or disagree with the coeducation
decision, I believe and trust we will do all in our power to
help W&L continue to grow in excellence.

 

 

 

|
|
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

ety
at

Ses
Sigh

3
Ter
Cae

 

SS

a
SS

eae
- Oo

7
re

q

:

 

more for his Alma Mater or whose love for
his University was greater. Washington and
Lee shall remember always how good he was
and how much he made us better.”’

In addition to Huntley, the other doctor
of laws degrees were presented to Edward
Powers Bassett, ’51, of Evanston, IIl., dean
of Northwestern University’s Medill School
of Journalism, and Robert Adam
Mosbacher, ’47, of Houston, independent
oil and gas operator and world champion
sailor.

Bassett, who received his master’s
degree from the University of Michigan and
his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa, has
held numerous positions in journalism,
both as a reporter and editor and as a jour-
nalism professor.

He has been on the staffs of the Ander-
son (Ind.) Herald, The Daily News of
Longview, Wash., Falmouth (Mass.) Enter-
prise, and The Courier-Journal in
Louisville, Ky.

He has served as acting chairman of the
University of Michigan department of jour-
nalism, dean of the University of Kansas
School of Journalism, and director of the
University of Southern California School
of Journalism.

In 1980 he was named editor of the
Statesman-Journal newspaper in Salem,
Ore., a post he held until this past March
when he was named dean of Northwestern’s
Medill School of Journalism.

Mosbacher has been an independent oil
and gas producer since 1948 and is chair-
man and chief executive officer of
Mosbacher Production Co. in Houston.

Mosbacher is a member of the board of
directors of the Texas Commerce Banc-
shares of Houston and the New York Life
Insurance. He is a founding member of the
American Business Conference and is on
the boards of the Aspen Institute for
Humanistic Studies, the Center for
Strategic and International Studies at
Georgetown University, the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars,
and the Texas Heart Institute.

A charter member and past chairman of
the All American Wildcatters Association,
he is chairman of the National Petroleum
Council and a member and past president
of the American Association of Petroleum
Landmen.

Mosbacher

 

Bassett

0

 

 

17

Commencement ’84

Mosbacher has won numerous sailing
awards, including the 1971 North American
Soling Championship and the 1971 Soling
World Championship.

In addition to the honorary degrees and
announcement of Gee as the valedictorian,
the other award recognized during the com-
mencement exercises was the Algernon
Sydney Sullivan Medallion. Voted by the
University’s faculty to the graduating senior
who excels “in high ideals of living, in
spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others,’’ the honor
went to Tori C. A. Richardson of Irvington,
N.J.

Richardson compiled an impressive
record both in academics and in extracur-
ricular activities during his four years at
Washington and Lee. A graduate of Oratory
Prep in Summit, N.J., he was an honor roll
student and was inducted into W&L’s
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, the na-
tional leadership fraternity, this year. He
was an assistant head dormitory counselor
and was named to Who’s Who in 1983.

A journalism major, Richardson was
news director for WLUR-FM, the campus
radio station, and was a newscaster for
Cable Nine, the journalism department’s
cable television station. He was a member
of the Student Association for Black Unity
and Sigma Delta Chi, the national jour-
nalism fraternity.

Singled out for special recognition were
several members of the faculty and ad-
ministration who are retiring. They were
William W. Watt, who is retiring as dean of
the College; G. Francis Drake, who is retir-
ing as professor of romance languages;
Henry L. Ravenhorst, who is retiring as pro-
fessor of engineering; and, Lt. Col. David
C. Fowler, who leaves the University after
three years as head of the military science
department.

Watt will return to full time teaching as
a professor of chemistry in 1985 after
spending the coming academic year on
leave. He served as dean of the College,
W&Ls arts and sciences division, for 13
years.

Drake joined the faculty of Washington
and Lee in 1940. A native of East Cleveland,
Ohio, he received his bachelor’s degree from
Oberlin College and his Ph.D. from the

University of North Carolina at Chapel ne ,
Hill. Dean Watt Professor Drake

18

 

 

He came to Washington and Lee as an
instructor and was named assistant pro-
fessor in 1946, associate professor in 1957,
and professor in 1959. Drake became head
of the department of romance languages in
1970, a position he held until 1979.

In addition to his classroom duties,
Drake played an important role in directing
summer institutes at W&L for high school
teachers from all over the country under the
National Defense Education Act and the
Education Professions Development Act.

Drake is a past president of the Foreign
Language Association of Virginia and of
the Virginia chapter of the American
Association of Teachers of French. He has
been a member of the Modern Language
Association and was named to one of the
committees selecting Virginia Cultural
Laureates for 1981.

Ravenhorst joined the W&L faculty as
an instructor in 1949 after spending two
years as an instructor in engineering at
neighboring Virginia Military Institute. He
was promoted to assistant professor in 1952
to associate professor in 1959 and to full
professor in 1967. A 1935 graduate of
Washington and Lee, Ravenhorst has pur-
sued graduate studies at Harvard, Dart-
mouth, and the University of Alaska.

He is a certified architect and is chair-
man of the Lexington Planning Commis-
sion. He has been chairman of the Lex-
ington Electoral Board and of the Lex-
ington Lions Club of which he is a charter
member. He is active as a lay leader in the
United Methodist Church.

He is a member of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa national leadership fraternity, the
American Society of Engineering Educa-
tion, and the Virginia Academy of Science.

Fowler had been head of Washington
and Lee’s Army ROTC Unit since June of
1981. He completed his tour of duty at
W&L this year and retired from active
military service to enter business.

A native of Milford, Conn., Fowler was
a magna cum laude graduate of the Univer-
sity of Nebraska at Omaha. He earned his
master’s degree in administration of
criminal justice from Wichita State
University.

His military education includes airborne
qualification and graduation from the Ar-
mor Officer Advanced Course, the U.S. Ar-
my Command and General Staff College,

 

em
. eli

Professor Ravenhorst

and the Army’s Advanced Criminal In-
vestigation Management Course.

Undergraduate commencement ac-
tivities had begun a day earlier with the
traditional baccalaureate service in Evans
Hall.

Dr. Charles Wesley Lowry, ’26, president
of the Foundation for Religious Action in
the Social and Civil Order and priest-
associate in Emmanuel Episcopal Church in
Southern Pines, N.C., delivered the bac-
calaureate sermon.

The baccalaureate was followed by an
unusual luncheon on the front campus—
unusual since the campus was immersed in
a dusk-like darkness caused by a midday
eclipse of the sun. On their way to and from
the picnic, many of the graduates and their
friends and families stopped by a special
display on the lawn in front of the Colon-
nade where members of the physics depart-
ment had arranged for several telescopes for
viewing the eclipse.

All in all, it made for a memorable start
to another memorable commencement.

 

Law Commencement

Washington and Lee University awarded
juris doctor degrees to 105 law students dur-

 

 

Col. Fowler

ing commencement exercises for the W&L
School of Law May 20.

Former Washington and Lee law school
dean Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. was the prin-
cipal speaker for the ceremony, which was
held on the lawn of the Front Campus.

Steinheimer, who retired from the W&L
deanship a year ago, spoke of the negative
image that lawyers often have in society and
warned the law graduates that they are leav-
ing the idyllic world of the law school for a
world in which they will often be
“misunderstood and even unloved, even
when they have diligently and conscien-
tiously discharged their professional
obligations.”’

Adding that the negative image of
lawyers “‘just naturally goes with the ter-
ritory of being a lawyer,’’ Steinheimer said
that even though they may be
misunderstood and even unloved ‘“‘you can
always command the respect of others if
you act as a true professional should.’’

Steinheimer, who spent the past
semester teaching law at the University of
Alabama, cited three specific areas of con-
duct necessary for a lawyer to gain such
respect: dignity, decency, and honesty.

“By your manner, appearances,
behavior, and language convey an impres-
sion of self-assurance and self-respect
which inspires confidence but falls short of

19

 

 

 

 

“ -
- - 7
/ -
: ; ca
. -
;
7 :
- 7 :
7
o
-
-
-
-
.
a :
- -
.
i
-
-
. 7 7 7
A
-
- 7
-
-
7
he -
7
a
~
-

7 Oo Bo

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

No Handkerchiefs, Please

Charles Mason, ’84, Scores Yet Another Victory

This is not a sob story.

It could be. All the elements are there: a
young man suffering from a debilitating
disease, in and out of hospitals for 15 years;
treated alternately by surgery and medica-
tion, most of which only make matters
worse; Often so weak that a flight of stairs
was as imposing as the Matterhorn; at one
point even waging an uphill battle for his
life; refusing to give up, despite the
apparent odds; ultimately surviving—more
than surviving, winning.

The story could be a tear-jerker. Real
hearts and flowers stuff. But Charles
Mason would not allow that. And, after all,
it is his story. So put the handkerchiefs
away.

“

Pai

xk kk

Charles Mason received his Washington
and Lee degree this year. Some of his W&L
professors would say it was high time
Mason finally got that degree. They’d be
smiling when they said it, though—smiling
as broadly as Mason was that Thursday in
May when he graduated.

Mason caused a bit of a stir when he
marched forward to receive his diploma
that day. His black gown had been
decorated with a yellow, red, and white sign
which read:

 

 

Class-ef28]
Class-ef2.82
CTassof283
Class of ’84

That sign was subject to misinterpreta-
tion, of course. Those who did not know
Charles Mason or his background might
have assumed that he had simply failed in
three previous attempts to graduate. A
couple of ill-timed F’s, perhaps. A few
incompletes, maybe. That wasn’t it at all.

xk Kk *&

Crohn’s disease, also known as regional
enteritis, is a chronic recurrent disease,
mainly of young adults, caused by inflam-
mation of segments of the small intestine. It
is characterized by abdominal pain, in-
ability to eat, frequently by fever and
weight loss. It often leads to intestinal
obstruction and fistula and abscess forma-
tion and has a high rate of recurrence.

Charles Mason was seven when he
began to suffer the symptoms of Crohn’s
disease. The doctors were more easily able Mason attired in the special T-shirt inscribed with names of all members of the Class of ’84, a gift of the
to diagnose those symptoms because one of 4/umni Association

 

21

7 7 . . - > 7 i
- - a . - .- + - - . - a
- - 7 - - 7 ‘ : 7 Oo : - -
- - ; - ae : ; 7 ; -
z ‘ / ; 7 _

~~ * : : ; : oe / -
: - SS : ye 7

7 7 7
. os : :

a - - 7 - . - - - - - -

.

   

 

 

 

 

ee

 

 

ee

 

 

 

mt ee
a a

 

 

 

 

ie Be
’

.

~

 

 

 

os

hae
a Oo

toate s weet
a

2 Pewaere Te

  

es

           
   

 

   

     

7 - - - a a - 7 an - - - -
- . - - - - 7 - Oo 7 oe . 7 7 -
- 7 7 : — Oo i ee a
. - - - - SS a - - . - oe
& - 7
° _ - 7 7 -
7 : 7 . 7
;
.
see . a . % EA Pie % . 54 2 pe ie
S 2 i se % SEs sehen Cs pee
a
ee sp Mat a
AO he a ee
SO Ee BO /
ne
Vi
» - a
eee eee
mo fe
- -
:
/ /

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

+

ee

Ididn’t  « 1elp ren T c OS
: Oo e times : } oS " } - 2 ( L r ‘ : S } . ° d - ~ A 0 4 . " : 7 0 1 V I 7 i 7
usehe felthe’d  —_ was, next to my marria ‘most impor-

 

_ Now heis
ment. It was along trip _ photos, he’s |
so much support along _ for a photo,

BO

_—-_ |

 

 

 

 

 

  
           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oo Oo | OS a a 7 i oe oe a i OO i So Be Be Bn —_ oe _—
_ 6 - - OO . . - - - 7 ; -
- 7 / / ; : :
7 - 7 . - - -
- . 7 ’
- oe - - - - - - 7 7 - - - - - - SS a
7 : : ‘ : -
- .
-
: -
et se
: ss
-¢
- - :
ee g
. aes
> SS : SS ces 3 i —— 2 $ fe a . ae Et
, - neg a 7 e . c / a
-
7 .
or ee
aed,
les
ses
peers
tae
| os
a . ee
aa
senate ey
Br
es
es
-
ee

 

 

a. ;

   

a

|
|
-
|
|
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

=
t

ode

oe
a

yo
cue

i

 

street. But mostly it’s good-natured
curiosity: ‘‘Hey, orang putih, what your
country?’’

While it is dangerous to generalize
about ethnic groups, here are some
thoughts on Sabah’s ethnic amalgam. The
indigenous tribal peoples—Kadazans,
Muruts, and Bajaus—are 55 percent of
Sabah’s population. Half Christian and
half Muslim, they are horsemen,
fishermen, craftsmen, farmers, and
hunters who mostly inhabit the rural
kampungs or villages. The Chinese, 30
percent of the population, first came in
the late 19th century. They control com-
merce and the banks, and their business
Savvy is somewhat resented by members
of the other racial groups. They eat well and
love cognac, parties, and gambling,
especially on their beloved mah jongg.
They are half Christian and half Bud-
dhist. The ethnic Malays, while a majori-
ty in West Malaysia, are only 15 percent
of the population here. They are devoted
to Islam, dress in batik kebayas and
sarungs, love curries, and generally lead
simpler lives than the Chinese. There are
also more than 200,000 Filipinos and In-
donesian guest workers in the state, many
here illegally.

More than 50 languages, including
tribal ones, are spoken in Sabah. Malay,
or as they call it here ‘‘Bahasa Malaysia’’
(literally ‘‘Language Malaysia’’), is the
sole official one. Also the national
language of Indonesia (there ‘‘Bahasa In-
donesia’’) and Brunei, it is spoken by
nearly 200 million people in the Malay
Archipelago. I have been studying the
language since I arrived. Since it uses
Roman letters and has no verb conjuga-
tion, it is the easiest of the Asian
languages to learn.

The two government-controlled televi-
sion networks broadcast in four
languages: Malay, English, Chinese
(mostly Mandarin and Cantonese), and
Tamil (for the many Indians in West
Malaysia). American programs are par-
ticularly popular with Shogun, The
Winds of War, Diff’rent Strokes, Dallas,
Falcon Crest, and The Jeffersons at the
top of the hit parade. I enjoy the adver-
tisements. Imagine ads for Pampers,
7-Up, and Kentucky Fried Chicken (yes,

 

The Sabah State Mosque

KFC is here) in Mandarin or Malay.
While Sabah is, as I have tried to
show, a fascinating place to be, the heart

of the Henry Luce Scholarship is the
placement itself. To find the right place-
ment for each Scholar, the Luce Founda-
tion turns to the expertise of the Asia
Foundation, a San Francisco-based non-
profit organization with field offices
throughout East Asia. Each spring, Asia
Foundation representatives, armed with
the resumes of the 15 newly-chosen Luce
Scholars, canvass institutions in the 10
countries and territories involved in the
program, searching for appropriate pro-
fessional placements. The participating
countries are Japan, South Korea, Hong
Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei,
Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, and
Thailand.

This year the placements are
remarkably varied. They included urban
positions, such as the legislative aide
placement one Scholar has with a
member of the Japanese Diet (Parlia-
ment) and the reporter’s job another has

 

with the Hong Kong-based newsweekly,
Far Eastern Economic Review. There are
always some unusual placements. One
Scholar who is a medical student is serv-
ing at refugee camps and a leprosy treat-
ment center in northwest Thailand. I am
serving as a legal officer in the Chambers
of the Attorney General of Sabah. I act
in that capacity as do all other lawyers
on the staff, even though I still have one
year to finish at the University of
Virginia Law School.

The staff in our chambers is multi-
racial: Malay, Chinese, Pakistani,
Kadazan. All the lawyers were trained in
England, as full-fledged legal education is
still relatively new to Malaysia. In
England, law is still a first degree, still
called the LL.B. Some Malaysian
lawyers, trained as apprentices at the
London Inns of Court, have no post-
secondary degree at all. They are
uniformly surprised that American
lawyers undergo at least seven years of
post-secondary education. Despite the ex-
tended education, the American law
degree is not recognized, so I am unable
to speak in court. This is probably for
the best since Malaysian lawyers still wear
the classic white wig of the British bar. I
can think of better ways to spend $150
than on a wig.

The Malaysian legal system is based
on British common law, although
Malaysia has a lengthy written constitu-
tion while Britain’s is unwritten. Though
this constitution purports to delineate
carefully the respective areas of federal
and state action, Malaysia has the same
sort of federal-state tension that we see in
the United States. In addition, Malaysia
has a separate system of Syariah, or
religious, courts which handle only situa-
tions where Muslims have violated a rule
of the Qur’an.

Sabah itself is an unusual state within
the Malaysian federation. I liken it to
Alaska within the U.S. federation. Both
states are far from their national capital,
are physically separated from the
‘‘mainland,’’ are oil-rich, and suspect
that in some way the federal government
is out to get them. However, Sabah,
unlike Alaska, had special privileges
granted to it when it joined the federa-

af

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ws

> a
;
- .
7 ;
/
2
- a
- -
- > — 7
7 - - ‘-
/ -

 

 

 

 

 

Bn

 

 

 

 

 

 

New
Alumni
Board
Members

   
 

ie

W. NAT BAKER, ’67
Foremost-McKesson, Inc.
San Francisco, Calif.
President, San Francisco Chapter, 1981-84
AAP Chairman, 1981-84

 

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69 JOHN W. FOLSOM, ’73
Lykes Brothers Steamship Co., Inc. S.C. Federal Savings & Loan Assoc.
New Orleans, La. Columbia, S.C.
Vice President, New Orleans Chapter, 1982-84 President, Palmetto Chapter, 1978-79
Annual Fund Class Agent, 1983-84 AAP Chairman, 1978-84

 

 

JOHN W. JENNINGS JR., 65, ’72L
Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker & Thornton
Roanoke, Va.

President, Roanoke Chapter, 1981-84
Annual Fund Class Agent 1979-84

 

~"

Hes

g

|

M. LEE HALFORD JR., ’69
Industrial Properties Corp.
Dallas, Texas
Vice President, Dallas Chapter, 1981-83
AAP Chairman, 1978-81

 

 

 

 

Class of *44

29

_ Fa
@

 

Bs

 

   
     
    
 

re

 

 

et
- -
*
ee a

ae

 

 

ee

 

aad

   
     

- we Fens 6: seeens one
- 7
XN

s cs

Se
Ringe So

See S

   

'

 

 

 

   

  

 

    

     

 

 

 

-
— -
£ : - _— .
a - -
BS
7 :
> - 7 :
7 a
- a - - oe -
f € - - : we poe
. - - -
7 Oo ae
- sy
a : S
eee fs . = Bs 7 cee : ae o é ty S A 3 z :
z i : dig . 3 ‘ a 4 i A F : — 3§ oS S <— - a ~ a 3
- : i : : 5 Fe x , 3 ‘ . # os - s Ps oe
"
ee 7 7 - 7

.

>

 

     

 

  

 

     

 

     

   

          

. 9 - 7 - - Fee —
a 7 :
- - 7 - 7 -
; : 7 :
ae : ; ; oS ae : ae :
? - - - + ‘ ie - _
eo : é a
re as - a a - 7 a :
: 7 a - oe 7 7 ose
7 ; ; :
7 OO : e ¥ ‘ as A ‘ : ‘ : gers bs -
: - fs . ; ‘ . ‘ ‘ ; a .
- - - - ee
a
7 7 Pre oe
Oo : - vit? -
oe Bn ee SS oe a

     

 

 

VW, Gazette
Ce

A $1.3 Million Bequest from Ruth Parmly

 

Parmly Hall is named in honor of Miss Ruth Parmly’s father.

az" x, 2 , eet —
a =~ ;ay > are a a“ .

 

W&L receives bequest
from Miss Ruth Parmly

 

Washington and Lee has received a be-
quest of $1.3 million from the estate of the
late Ruth Parmly of New York City.

According to Farris P. Hotchkiss, direc-
tor of University relations and development
at Washington and Lee, the bequest was not
designated for a specific purpose.
Washington and Lee’s board of trustees will
consider a permanent use for the gift at its
October 1984 meeting.

Miss Parmly, who died May 8 at the age
of 80, was one of Washington and Lee’s
most generous benefactors. She had
previously given the University gifts totaling
$2 million to maintain and strengthen the
University’s programs in the sciences. Her
father, Professor Charles Howard Parmly,

Rcscnesong

 

taught physics and engineering at the Col-
lege of the City of New York.

Although she did not have any direct tie
with Washington and Lee, Miss Parmly had
been aware of the gift made to the Universi-
ty in the early part of this century by Robert
Parker Doremus. She often said that the
story of the Doremus gift to W&L had pro-
vided her with “an indirect connection”
with the University.

Her gifts were made in memory of her
father and are recognized by the naming of
the building housing W&L’s biology,
physics, and physics-engineering depart-
ments as Charles Howard Parmly Hall.

Miss Parmly was born in New York City
and studied at Vassar College, the Sorbonne in
Paris, and Columbia University.
Washington and Lee awarded her an
honorary doctor of humane letters degree in
1979.

 

Col. Tucker, ’10, dies

Col. John H. Tucker Jr., 710, of
Shreveport, La., died on May 22 at
Schumpert Medical Center after an extend-
ed illness. He was 93.

The late Col. Tucker and his late wife,
Hortense Rigby Tucker, left the bulk of an
estate estimated to be worth several million
dollars to Washington and Lee and the
Shreveport Community Foundation.

Born on February 25, 1891, in Pine
Bluff, Ark., Tucker received the bachelor
of arts degree from Washington and Lee in
1910.

He served with the U.S. Army on the
Mexican border in 1916 and served during
World War I as aide-de-camp to General W. P.
Richardson in France and northern Russia.

He received his law degree from Loui-
siana State University in 1920, the same
year in which he began his practice of law
with the firm of Smith & Tucker. At the time
of his death he was the senior partner of
Tucker, Jeter & Jackson.

One of Tucker’s greatest contributions
was founding the Louisiana Law Institute in
1933. The institute made possible moder-
nization of the state’s original civil code and
served as a model for law reform
throughout the United States. The institute
worked to modernize civil procedure and
codify criminal law. He served as president
of the Louisiana Law Institute from its
founding until 1965.

Tucker was also known for a variety of
other contributions to the law, including
several important cases he handled. He was
considered one of the world’s authorities on
the Napoleonic Code, the body of French
civil law enacted in 1804, which was a
model for the civil codes of many countries.

He was a member of the Supreme Court
Committee on Professional Ethics and
Grievances from 1934 to 1937. He was the
author of Source Books of Louisiana Law.
He addressed many law groups and was a
visiting lecturer at Tulane University from
1959 through 1961.

He served on numerous civic boards in

31

 

Le Gazette

Shreveport and was a trustee of the First
Presbyterian Church of Shreveport.

He was a member of Sigma Nu social
fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, the Order
of the Coif, Phi Beta Kappa, and Phi Delta
Phi.

Tucker was awarded an honorary doctor
of laws degree from Washington and Lee in
1958. He also received honorary degrees
from Louisiana State University, Tulane
University, Loyola University, and
Centenary College of Louisiana. He was
awarded the French Legion of Honor in
1956. He received the Hatton W. Sumners
Award in 1958 for outstanding services and
was chairman of the Louisana State Bar
Association.

A memorial service was held for Tucker
on May 24 at the First Presbyterian Church
of Shreveport. Interment was in Mansfield,
Ohio.

 

Signaigo Scholarship
established in Commerce School

 

Washington and Lee University has
received a gift of $50,000 from Leo J.
Signaigo Jr. of Welch, W.Va., to establish a
scholarship at the University in honor of his
mother, Mollie Trent Signaigo.

The Mollie Trent Signaigo Scholarship
in Commerce will be awarded to a student
planning to pursue a major in W&Ls
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics with preference given to students
from West Virginia in making the award.

‘“‘We are indeed grateful to Mr. Signaigo
for this wonderful gift,’’ W&L President
John D. Wilson said of the new scholarship.
‘“‘No single need is greater for the future of
Washington and Lee than providing oppor-
tunities for generations of future students
through such scholarships.”’

Signaigo is president of the Riverside
Pocahontas Coal Corp. in Welch. A
member of the W&L class of 1943, Signaigo
received the bachelor of science in com-
merce degree, majoring in accounting and
economics. While at W&L, he was a
member of the varsity basketball team,
Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership
fraternity, and Pi Kappa Alpha social
fraternity.

Mrs. Signiago, for whom the scholar-
ship is named, is a descendant of early
pioneer families and a long-time resident of
Welch. A former school teacher, she is a
member of the Daughters of the American
revolution, the McDowell County Women’s
Club, and the First Baptist Church.

32

   

ca

 

EIS

 

Sas
Sos
SS SSS

Award winners at the senior banquet were (from left) President Wilson, a Ring-tum Phi award winner; Ring-

tum Phi staff Jim Laurie who presented the newspaper’s awards; Lexington police chief L. O. Sutton, a Ring-
tum Phi winner; Mrs. Helen Watt, who accepted the Pusey Award on Dean Watt’s behalf; and, Bob Jene-

vein, winner of the Gilliam Award.

 

Awards, honors

 

e Five Washington and Lee students
were honored by the W&L department of
English in the spring.

Grant David Hamrick, a senior from
Charlotte, N.C., won the Jean Amory Wor-
nom Award for Distinguished Critical
Writing for a paper entitled ““The Language
of the Fallen in John Milton’s Paradise
Lost,

Four students won George A. Mahan
Awards in Creative Writing. David W. Ames
of Virginia Beach won the senior prose
award for his story entitled ‘““Two Loves.”’
Robert D. Bryant, a junior from Albuquer-
que, N.M., won the junior prose award for
“Darling, you gotta let me know.’’
Freshmen Brent M. O’Boyle and J. Keith
Pillow both won freshman prose awards.

¢ W&L’s student newspaper, The Ring-
tum Phi, presented its annual awards for
outstanding service to Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson for what the
newspaper called demonstrating the
courage to force the university to reexamine
itself, primarily with regard to the current
coeducation study; Lexington Police Chief
L.O. Sutton for his work in improving rela-
tionships between the students and the ci-
ty’s law enforcement officials since his ar-
rival in Lexington a year ago; and senior
Charlie Alcorn of Victoria, Texas, who serv-
ed as president of the senior class, chairman

of the Student Control Committee, and a
member of the student body executive
committee.

e William J. Watt, who retired in July as
Dean of the College at W&L, was the win-
ner of the fourth annual William Webb
Pusey III Award for outstanding service and
dedication to the University.

The Pusey Award was created in 1981 by
the Executive Committee of the University.
It is named in honor of Dr. William Webb
Pusey III, who served Washington and Lee
as professor, dean, and acting president
from 1939 until his retirement in 1981.

Watt will return to full time teaching as
a professor of chemistry in the fall of 1985
after taking a year’s leave of absence for
study during the 1984-85 academic year.

e Robert C. Jenevein of Dallas, Texas,
president of the student government for the
1983-84 academic year, received the Frank
Johnson Gilliam Award. The Gilliam
Award is presented annually to the student
who has made the most conspicuous con-
tributions to life at Washington and Lee.
The recipient is selected by non-graduating
student government representatives.

Jenevein served as president of the
junior class and is a member of Kappa
Alpha social fraternity. He was a tri-captain
of the 1983 varsity football team.

e Howard Marcus Martinez III of
Virginia Beach was the 1984 winner of The
Captain Jay W. Stull Memorial Award.

The Stull Memorial Award is made in

 

 

 

Participating in induction ceremonies for two commerce fraternities were (from left) W&L professor Joseph

Goldsten; Lee Hollis, 86; Samuel B. Hollis, ’51; and, W&L professor David Weist.

recognition of exemplary achievement and
outstanding promise in military service.
Awarded on recommendation of the United
States Marine Corps, the Stull Memorial

Award goes to that Washington and Lee stu-

dent who attains the highest standing in the
Senior Platoon Leaders Class during sum-
mer corps training at Quantico, Va.

The award honors the memory of U.S.
Marine Captain Jay W. Stull, a 1960
graduate of Washington and Lee who died
in action in Vietnam in 1968.

In addition to a cash award and a cer-
tificate, Martinez was presented a
Washington and Lee captain’s chair.

 

Commerce fraternities’
initiations

 

Washington and Lee’s chapters of Beta

Gamma Sigma, the national honor fraterni-

ty in business administration, and Omicron
Delta Epsilon, the national honor society in
economics, held their initiation ceremonies

in May.

Beta Gamma Sigma recognizes students
having distinguished records in business ad-
ministration while Omicron Delta Epsilon
recognizes high scholastic achievement in
economics.

In addition to initiating seven
undergraduates, the Omicron Delta Epsilon
chapter made W&L alumnus Samuel B.
Hollis, 51, of Memphis, Tenn., an honorary

initiate.

Hollis is president of the Federal Com-
press and Warehouse Company in Mem-
phis. He has served as president of the Cot-
ton Warehouse Association of America. He
is a past president of the Memphis Chamber
of Commerce and past chairman of the
United Way Campaign.

David N. Weist, assistant professor of
accounting at W&L, was a faculty initiate of

Beta Gamma Sigma.

Students initiated into Beta Gamma
Sigma were seniors David R. Arnold of
Hattiesburg, Miss., Richard A. Haight of
Rowayton, Conn., Joseph E. Mamo III of
Rocky Mount, N.C., and John E. Taylor III
of Ventura, Calif., and juniors Michael S.
Bearup of Silver City, N.M., and
Christopher H. Williams of Newark, Del.

Students initiated into Omicron Delta
Epsilon were seniors Roger L. Butler of
Hampton, Va., John D. Cole of Elberton,
Ga., Dwight H. Emanuelson Jr. of Mem-
phis, Tenn., James N. Humphreys II of
Wise, Va., Paul E. Levy of Baldwin, Md.,
and Hiram M. Maxim II of Farmington,
Conn., and junior Robert J. Tomaso of
Milford, Mass.

 

Funkhouser Mineral Collection
dedicated at W&L

 

Karl Funkhouser (right) with President Wilson and geology professor Fred Schwab.

Washington and Lee dedicated the Karl
Funkhouser Mineral Collection in the
department of geology in May.

Housed in a newly-renovated room, the
prize-winning collection contains approx-
imately 600 specimens and is estimated to
be worth between $25,000 and $30,000. It is
a gift of Karl Funkhouser, ’57, of Arl-
ington, Va.

A geology major at Washington and
Lee, Funkhouser began collecting minerals
in 1951 and had compiled the bulk of his
collection by 1967.

 

 

Claudia Schwab photo

33

: él Gazette

Some of Funkhouser’s finds are on
display in the Smithsonian Institution and
the British Museum.

In remarks presented at the dedication
ceremonies Saturday, Funkhouser noted
that most of the specimens he had actually
gathered had come from four different loca-
tions: a mine near Vesuvius in Rockbridge
County, a mine in South Wales, Great Bri-
tain, a quarry near Staunton, and a quarry
near Centreville in Fairfax County, Va.

“T hope W&L students and anyone else
who comes here to look at this collection
gets as much pleasure from seeing it as I got
from putting it together,’’ said Funkhouser.

Edgar W. Spencer, head of the W&L
geology department, said the Funkhouser
Collection is particularly valuable because
it contains so many “rare and beautiful
mineral crystals from all over the world,
something that is very difficult to come by
these days.”’

Added Spencer: “‘We are indeed grateful
to have such a fine collection for our
students to examine.’’

 

W&L graduate named
astronaut candidate

 

A 1978 Washington and Lee University
graduate is one of 17 new astronaut can-
didates for the Space Shuttle program.

G. David Low, who received the
bachelor of science degree from
Washington and Lee, entered a year-long
program of training and evaluation at the
National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration’s Johnson Space Center in
Houston in July.

If successful, he will then begin a train-
ing assignment leading to selection for a
Space Shuttle flight crew.

Low is a mission specialist candidate
and would work with the payloads and -
scientific experiments on the Space Shuttle
flight. Currently a spacecraft systems
engineer at NASA’s Jet Propulsion
Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., he was one
of five civilians selected as mission
specialist candidates.

According to NASA, the 17 astronaut
candidates were selected from an original
pool of 4,934 applications, of which 128
were interviewed and given medical ex-
aminations at the Johnson Space Center.

Low’s presence on the list of astronaut
candidates is particularly interesting since
his father was formerly the administrator of
NASA and managed the Apollo Spacecraft
program.

34

 

Astronaut candidate Low

David Low’s father, the late George M.
Low, was with the space program for 27
years. He was manager of the Apollo
Spacecraft program when the United States
put its first astronauts on the moon in 1969.
He was deputy administrator of NASA
from 1969 through 1976, serving for part of
that time as acting administrator. He was
president of Rensselaer Polytechnic In-
stitute in Troy, N-Y., from 1976 until his
death in July.

‘“‘Ever since I was selected as an
astronaut candidate I have been asked
whether my father’s involvement in the
space program was behind my interest in
becoming an astronaut,’’ Low said ina
telephone interview from California follow-
ing the announcement.

‘“‘T am sure that being so close to the
space program for the first 20 years of my
life because of my father’s connection with
it had to have some effect on me,’’ Low
said. “On the other hand, I can’t say with
any degree of certainty that I would not
have developed this same interest had my
father not been involved with the program
at all. I only know that I am extremely ex-
cited about this opportunity.’’

Low’s father retired from the space pro-
gram in 1976 when Low was between his
sophomore and junior years at Washington
and Lee.

Low was a physics-engineering major at
Washington and Lee. After leaving W&L, he
went on to Cornell where he earned a second
bachelor’s degree in mechanical engi-
neering.

~ “At both Washington and Lee and Cor-
nell I kept my engineering studies fairly
broad without focusing too closely on a
particular area,’’ he said. “That was very
valuable for me.”’

From Cornell, Low went to work at the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Pasadena. He
worked there for a year and a half before
returning to college, earning a master’s
degree in aeronautics and astronautics from
Stanford.

“A fter I had been working at the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory for some time I
began to narrow my focus and my field of
interest. When I went to Stanford it was
clear what area I would specialize in,’’ Low
said. “Although it is difficult for me to
make such an assessment, I have had many
people tell me that my Washington and Lee
experience has been extremely valuable to
me because of the liberal arts background.’’

According to Low, the earliest he would
actually make a Space Shuttle flight would
be three to four years from the time he
enters the training program.

“T know that seems a long, long way off
right now,’’ Low said. ‘“‘But there is a lot of
exciting work to be done along the way, and
I can’t wait to get started on it.’’

 

18 students, 9 professors
at science meeting

 

Eighteen Washington and Lee Universi-
ty students and nine W&L professors were
the authors of papers presented at the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Virginia Academy
of Science at the University of Richmond
in May.

W&L students and professors were
represented in four different sections of the
meeting.

The participants from W&L in the
astronomy, mathematics, and physics sec-
tion were sophomore Larry S. Anker of
East Windsor, N.J., associate professor of
physics Ronald Reese, and associate pro-
fessor of physics H. Thomas Williams Jr.

Taking part in the chemistry section
were: chemistry professors John H. Wise, J.
Keith Shillington, and Michael A. Pleva
along with Anker, junior Gabriel B. Balazs
of Lexington, senior Kevin Berger of Ken-
nett Square, Pa., freshman Jeffrey S. Man-
dak of Clifton, N.J., senior John J. Delany
III of Lexington, sophomore Joseph C.
Campbell Jr. of Buena Vista, junior Scot C.
Schultz of Ft. Lauderdale, junior Peter A.
Hunt of Huntington, W.Va., senior Ronald
R. Magee of Dallas, junior Michael J.

Spellman Jr. of Port Washington, N.J., and
sophomore David S. Harvey of
Georgetown, S.C.

W&L psychology professor H. E. King
presented a paper in the medical sciences
section.

Psychology professor David G. Elmes
presided as chairman of the psychology sec-
tion. Elmes and psychology professors
Leonard E. Jarrard and Joseph B. Thomp-
son were participants in that section with
Campbell, Delany, junior Adam R. Reins-
tein of Dix Hills, N.J., junior Jeffrey P.
Blount of Delmar, N-Y., sophomore Joseph
J. Willett IV of New York City, senior Paul
F, Chapman of Short Hills, N.J., junior
Gary R. Clements of Media, Pa., and senior
Paul E. Levy of Baldwin, Md.

 

Lambda Chi Alpha
donates $500 to hospital

 

Washington and Lee University’s
chapter of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity
presented Stonewall Jackson Hospital with
a $500 donation in May.

The fraternity raised the money for the
gift through a raffle, which was supported
by numerous Lexington merchants.

Lambda Chi Alpha president Fred
Bentley, a sophomore from Palo Alto,
Calif., and vice president Richard DeForest,
a junior from Woodbridge, Va., made the
presentation to L. E. Richardson, execu-
tive vice president of the Stonewall Jackson
Hospital.

According to Richardson, the fraterni-
ty’s gift will be used to purchase surgical in-
struments for use in the hospital’s new
surgical wing.

Bentley said the fraternity, which has
approximately 25 members, plans to make
its fund-raising program an annual event.

“Most of us only live in the community
four years, and we felt it was only ap-
propriate that we give something back to
the community,’’ Bentley said. ‘“We decided
upon the hospital because there is clearly a
need with the new wing being built.’’

 

McThenia is co-author of
Study of unclaimed property law

 

Andrew W. McThenia Jr., professor of
law at Washington and Lee University, is the
co-author of a four-volume study of
unclaimed property law, published by Mat-
thew Bender and Company of New York.

 

McThenia

McThenia was one of the principal ar-
chitects of a proposal on unclaimed proper-
ty which was adopted in 1981 by the
Uniform Law Commission.

Unclaimed property law deals with pro-
perty that has been lost or abandoned by its
rightful owner. The property ranges from
stocks and bonds to utility deposits and
pari-mutuel tickets.

The new work of which McThenia is co-
author is entitled “Unclaimed Property
Law and Reporting Forms” and is designed
as a reference work for practicing attorneys.

The first of the four volumes is a nar-
rative analysis of unclaimed property law in
the United States. The second volume
presents the individual statutes and regula-
tions in each state. The third and fourth
volumes are forms and instructions from
the various states.

Co-authors with McIrhenia were David
J. Epstein of California and Curtis D.
Forslund of Minnesota.

McThenia received both his
undergraduate and law degrees from
Washington and Lee. He earned a master’s
degree from Columbia University. He join-
ed the faculty of the W&L School of Law in
1967.

He has served as reporter and principal
draftsman for several acts adopted by the
Uniform Law Conference, a confederation
of state commissions on uniform laws
which includes 300 practicing lawyers,
judges, and law professors selected by each
of the 50 states.

In addition to the Uniform Unclaimed

 

Property Act, he was also the reporter and
principal draftsman of the Uniform Health
Care Consent Act adopted by the Uniform
Law Conference.

 

Domesday papers
presented at meeting

 

A team of Washington and Lee students
and professors presented four papers on
William the Conqueror’s “Domesday
Book” at the International Congress of
Medieval Studies at Kalamazoo, Mich., in
May.

Scholars have long questioned the
reliability of the figures given in ‘‘Domes-
day Book,’’ an 11th century census of
English population, land-holding patterns,
agricultural values, and capital resources.
The massive document remains, however,
the most complete statistical document
dating from the medieval period.

Taylor Sanders, professor of history,
discussed the W&L approach, an inter-
disciplinary program using computer
technology and more traditional methods,
to analyze and assess the reasonableness of
the Domesday figures. Tim Hartley, a
Washington and Lee senior from Western
Springs, IIl., presented his findings based on
correlations between agricultural conditions
(soil type, groundwater sources, and
topographical features) and land value in
medieval Oxfordshire.

The W&L team also presented a paper
by Philip L. Cline, associate professor of
economics and administration, who applied
current microeconomic production theory
and multivariate statistical techniques to
Oxfordshire and other Domesday counties.
W&L sophomore Tom Spilsbury of_Hun-
tington, N.Y., was co-author of the paper.
Computer techniques similar to those used
by Cline and Spilsbury are utilized by
modern economists to analyze contem-
porary industries in under-developed na-
tions. These techniques supported the
team’s conclusions that the statistics con-
tained in ‘Domesday Book” are
“‘reasonable.’’

Tim Valliere, a W&L senior from Un-
casville, Conn., presented a paper about the
opportunities the survey offers
undergraduates as an object of research.
Valliere is writing an undergraduate student
guide to Domesday.

Several other Washington and Lee
undergraduates, who pursued Domesday
research in Sanders’ British and medieval

3)

de Gazette

history courses, made substantial contribu-
tions as co-authors of the studies. They
were Charles King, a December graduate
from Raleigh, N.C.; senior John Howard of
Dallas; junior Ron Fenstermacher of
Bethlehem, Pa.; and sophomore Jeff Roper
of Terre Haute, Ind.

Warren Hollister, professor of history at
the University of California and one of
America’s leading Domesday scholars, was
chairman of the W&L panel at the meeting,
which was sponsored by the Medieval In-
stitute. The Congress is the largest such
gathering of medieval scholars in North
America and attracts medievalists from
throughout the world.

 

Former W&L cagers reunite

 

Several members of Washington and
Lee’s Class of 1944 celebrated more than
one reunion this spring when alumni return-
ed to the campus for the annual spring reu-
nion activities.

First, they reunited with their fellow
classmates on the occasion for their 40th
reunion.

Meantime, six members of the Class of
44 who played on the Generals’ varsity
basketball team were joined by their former
coach and one other teammate to relive a
few moments out of the past, particularly
the 1942 Southern Conference Tournament.

The former basketball players who got
together for the reunion were George T.
Wood, ’44, of Louisville; Leon (Stick) Har-

ris, 44, of Summerton, S.C.; Leo J.
Signaigo, ’43, of Welch, W-Va.; William B.
(Bill) Bryan, ’44, of Paris, Ky.; Clarence
(Clancy) E. Ballenger Jr., 44, of Spartan-
burg, S.C.; and, Don Johnston, ’44, of
Timonium, Md.

Joining them for the occasion were
Harold B. (Cookie) Cunningham of
Leesburg, Fla., , who coached the team, and
Lea Booth, ’40, of Lynchburg, who was the
guest speaker for the Class of 1944 banquet.

The 1941-42 basketball team included
seven members of the Class of ’44 and
played a suicide schedule with such basket-
ball powerhouses as Adolph Rupp’s Ken-
tucky Wildcats, North Carolina, Duke,
Virginia, Maryland, Wake Forest, and the
Western Kentucky Hilltoppers of Ed
Diddle.

Though short on experience, the
Generals of that year earned enough vic-
tories to capture the eighth spot for the
Southern Conference Tournament. Facing
top-seeded Duke in the opening round of
the tournament, the Generals led for much
of the game thanks to 17 first-half points by
Leo Signaigo.

But the Blue Devils, who featured Bob
Gant and Cedric and Garland Loftis, even-
tually prevailed.

Coach “Cookie” Cunningham had been
an All-American in football and basketball
at Ohio State and appears in the Basketball
Hall of Fame at Springfield, Mass., as a
member of the first Celtics Professional
Basketball Team.

The reunion within a reunion was a hap-

ES

 

Basketball reunion (from left) George T. Wood, ’44; Leon (Stick) Harris, ’44; Leo J. Signaigo, ‘43; William
B. (Bill) Bryan, 44; Coach Harold B. (Cookie) Cunningham; Clarence (Clancy) Ballenger Jr, ’44; Don

Johnston, ’44; and, Lea Booth, *40.

36

py one, although the former players missed
the company of three teammates who could
not be in attendance—W. Harry Baugher
Jr., 44, of Plandome, N.Y., Jack F. Roehl,
44, of Miami, and Ed C. Cuttino, ’42, of
Sumter, S.C.

 

Phillips publishes volume
on public utilities

 

Washington and Lee economics pro-
fessor Charles F. Phillips Jr. is the author of
a major new volume on the regulatory pro-
cess and public utilities.

Entitled The Regulation of Public
Utilities: Theory and Practice, the 812-page
book was published in May by Public
Utilities Reports, Inc. of Arlington, Va.

The multi-purpose volume will be used
both as a classroom textbook and a
reference work for professionals in the field.

Phillips, the Robert G. Brown Professor
of Economics at W&L, is a nationally
known authority in the field of governmental
regulation of public utilities. He has
served as a consultant to many regulated
businesses and regularly testifies as an ex-
pert witness before federal agencies and
regulatory commissions.

Material in the book is predicated on
courses that Phillips has developed for
W&L’s School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics since joining the faculty in
1959.

The format of the new volume is the
same as the format of Phillips’ previous
book, The Economics of Regulation, which
was published in 1965 and revised in 1969. It re-
mains a classic in the field.

“The decade of the 1970s saw tremen-
dous changes in the area of regulation,’’
noted Phillips. “While this new volume
follows the format of the previous book,
less than 10 percent of the material from
that previous book has been retained. That
is an indication of how dramatically things
have changed in the past 10 to 15 years.”’

The book includes an introductory
chapter and is then divided into four sec-
tions: the economic, legal, and ad-
ministrative concepts of public utility
regulation; the theory of public utility
regulation; the public utility industries; and
an appraisal.

While intended for use as a college-level
textbook, the volume includes extensive
footnotes and references for use by lawyers
and researchers.

“I wrote this book with several different

 

Author Phillips and new volume

audiences in mind,”’ said Phillips. “It is
designed to be useful as a reference docu-
ment for commissions and those persons
practicing before commissions and also for
purposes of management and regulatory
commissions’ training programs.”’

The volume includes an analysis of
regulation and deregulation, an outline of
the extensive changes in the last decade of
the regulatory process, and antitrust and
regulation in the telecommunications in-
dustry, including the private suits filed
against the Bell System.

In addition to the two works on regula-
tion, Phillips is the author of a volume on
the synthetic rubber industry, several
monographs, and more than three dozen ar-
ticles and book reviews.

A native of Geneva, N.Y., Phillips
received his bachelor’s degree from the
University of New Hampshire and his Ph.D.
from Harvard. He was named to the Brown
Professorship in 1980. Phillips has been
mayor of Lexington since 1971.

 

Faculty promotions announced

 

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for 11 members of Washington
and Lee’s faculty.

Approved by W&L’s board of trustees
during its May meeting, the promotions are
effective September 1.

 

Promoted from associate professor to
full professor are: Minor L. Rogers
(religion), Halford R. Ryan (public speak-
ing), Thomas O. Vinson Jr. (mathematics),
and H. Thomas Williams (physics).

Promoted from assistant to associate
professor are: Harlan R. Beckley (religion),
Robert E. Danford (library), Gary R.
Franke (physical education), William S.
Geimer (law), Nancy A. Margand
(psychology), George C. O’Connell
(physical education), and Sarah K. Wiant
(law).

Rogers, who was also named head of the
religion department by the board of
trustees, has taught at Washington and Lee
since 1972. He previously served as director
of the East Asian Studies Program. A
graduate of Virginia Military Institute with
a divinity degree from Virginia Theological
Seminary and a Ph.D. from Harvard, he has
received research grants from the National
Endowment for the Humanities and the
Japan Foundation for his work on Shin
Buddhism.

Ryan joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1970. A graduate of Wabash Col-
lege, he received both his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Illinois. He
has written 10 articles for scholarly journals
on topics in public speaking, especially
presidential rhetoric. He is the author of a
book entitled American Rhetoric from
Roosevelt to Reagan.

Vinson began teaching at Washington

and Lee in 1967. He received his bachelor’s
degree from Emory University and the
Ph.D. from Virginia Tech. He has written a
manuscript on linear algebra and has par-
ticipated in the evaluation of state-wide
high school teacher competency tests in
Virginia.

Williams came to Washington and Lee
in 1971 after serving as a temporary assis-
tant professor at Virginia Military Institute
for one year. He received both his B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Virginia. He is the author of numerous
scholarly articles and has served as a con-
sultant to the National Bureau of Stan-
dards. He has received grants from the
Virginia Endowment for the Humanities
and Public Policy and the Research
Corporation.

Beckley joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1974. He received his bachelor’s
degree from the University of Illinois and
earned the master’s of divinity, master’s,
and Ph.D. degrees from Vanderbilt. He is
the author of six reviews in scholarly
publications and has delivered several
papers. He was a research fellow at the In-
stitute for Advanced Study of Religion at
the University of Chicago in 1981-82.

Danford joined the University Library
in 1977 and serves as head of cataloguing.
He received the bachelor’s degree from East
Tennessee State and both the master’s of
arts in English and the master’s in library
sciences from the University of Tennessee.
He is the editor of Library Resources for
College Scholars and serves as chairman for
Region VI of the Virginia Library
Association.

Franke came to Washington and Lee in
1973. He earned both the bachelor’s and
master’s degree from Mankato State
University. He is head coach of both the
varsity wrestling and tennis teams and. has
been named coach of the year in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference in both of
those sports. He was for three years a
member of the executive committee of the
National Wrestling Coaches Association.

Geimer joined the W&L law faculty in
1980. He received the bachelor’s degree
from East Tennessee State and the law
degree from the University of North
Carolina. Prior to joining the W&L faculty
he was executive director of Farmworkers
Legal Service of North Carolina. He has
written six articles in law reviews and law
journals. He is faculty adviser to Phi Alpha
Delta legal fraternity, to the Legal and
Public Defender Clinical Programs, and to
the Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Arms
Control.

37

Le Gazette

Margand has been a member of the
W&L faculty since 1975. She received the
bachelor’s degree from Ohio State and both
the M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of
Virginia. She has had two articles published
in the Virginia Journal of Science and
Developmental Psychology and has
delivered several papers to scholarly
societies. She has served on the board of
directors of the Mental Health Association.

O’Connell joined the W&L faculty in
1973. He received the bachelor’s degree

from Denison University and the master’s
from Towson State. He is assistant athletic
director and an assistant football coach. He
served as president of the U.S. Lacrosse
Coaches Association from 1976 to 1978. He
has been director of recreation for
Washington and Lee’s Summer Scholars
Program since 1981.

Wiant came to the University in 1972 as
assistant law librarian. She was named law
librarian and assistant professor of law in
1978. She received the bachelor’s degree

from Western State College, the master’s of
library sciences from North Texas State, and
the juris doctor degree from Washington
and Lee. She has had several articles
published in library journals. She is a
member of the executive board of the
American Association of Law Librarians
and a member of the Executive Committee
of the Virginia Library Association. She
served as president of the Virginia Chapter
of Special Librarians Association.

 

TRAVEL

OPPORTUNITY

The Alumni Association
presents

two special travel opportunities

inthe company of retired faculty “stars”

Ancient Civilizations of the Eastern
Mediterranean cruising from Athens to
Istanbul, Rhodes, Cyprus and Cairo

September 25 - October 10, 1984

 

  
    
 

   
  

with
Dr. and Mrs. James H. Starling
(Biology)
4 and
cS an
S X The Best of Eastern Europe
v an c eo ee Vi
ga POLAND \ visiting Vienna, Budapest, Prague,
é 3 Berlin Dresden and Berlin
“wey Dressen
ey. _ Nhe ee December 27, 1984 - January 9, 1985
“ar cerMANY SA ws with
“7 ww opys
bes Ce ne > tut 2 Dr. and Mrs. William A. Jenks, ’39
(eee a \ a en rN (History)
ITALY oy? YUGOSLANA \
Q
4 Write or call the W&L Alumni Office

for brochures and full details
Lexington, Va. 24450 703-463-8400

 

‘ '

 

38

Chapter News

 

SAN FRANCISCO—John Stoudermire, ’71, offers W&L literature to two
Lowell High School students on a college night in the Bay Area.

APPALACHIAN—Enjoying the hospitality at the Martha Washington Inn
are (from left) Don Johnson, ’73L; Tom Bewley, 70; George Pruner, 34; Steve

Quillen, ’55, ’57L; Bill Andrews, ’66; and, Rogers McCall, ’73L.

NEW YORK. The annual dinner of the
New York alumni chapter was held May 8
at the Union Club. Cocktails preceded the
dinner for alumni, spouses and guests.
Lloyd Dobyns, ’57, senior correspondent
for NBC News, was the evening’s speaker.
Election of new officers was also held dur-
ing the meeting. They are: David L.
Dowler, ’69, president; Paul W. Perkins,
74, vice president for New York City;
Robert H. Ingham, ’55, vice president for
New Jersey; Christopher B. Burnham, ’80,
vice president for Connecticut; Donald T.
McMillan, ’72, ’75L, vice president for
Long Island; Paul E. Sanders, ’43, vice
president for Westchester County; Emmett
W. Poindexter, ’20, secretary-treasurer;
and Richard R. Warren, ’57, assistant
secretary-treasurer. Nine other men were
elected for terms of one to three years on
the chapter’s governing council. They are:
H. Melville Hicks Jr., 52, John E.
Monroe, ’82, Richard H. Turrell, ’49,
Matthews H. Griffith, ’40, Jaroslav A.
Drabek, ’53, L. Roper Shamhart, 47,
Michael Smith, ’82, William Howard
Bender, ’51, and John M. Ellis, ’56.

 

Richard Warren serves as chairman of the
nominating committee.

APPALACHIAN. The chapter held a re-
juvenation meeting June 6 at the Martha
Washington Inn. A large percentage of
alumni in the chapter, which covers the
mountainous areas of four states, arrived in
time for cocktails and conversation before
dinner. Chapter President Bob Vinyard,
"*70L, opened a business meeting after din-
ner with the election of new officers. They
are: Phil McFarlane, ’71, president; Mike
Riley, ’72, vice president; and John McKin-
non, ’71, secretary-treasurer. McFarlane
made some cogent remarks about future
plans for the chapter and its importance to
Washington and Lee. To enhance par-
ticipation and encourage continuity of
activity within the chapter, a large number
of directors were appointed who agreed to
represent each of the many areas which
comprise the chapter. Mike Riley then in-
troduced Buddy Atkins, ’68, who spoke
about the current strengths of Washington
and Lee, answered questions about the
coeducation issue, and encouraged the

 

APPALACHIAN—WE&L alumni renewing acquaintance are (from left) Bo
Chapman, ’70; Bob Lee, ’70; Mickey Shull, ’75L; and, Morten Brown, ’37.

 

 

 

APPALACHIAN—Preparing for the program are (from left) Mike Riley, ’72;
Buddy Atkins, 68, associate alumni secretary; and, Phil McFarlane, ’71.

chapter to remain active and enter into the
Alumni Admissions Program to keep W&L
visible in that region.

CHARLOTTE. Behind the awesome
pitching of Averill Harkey, ’74, and the
stunning defensive play of left fielder Tom
Mattesky, ’74, Charlotte alumni blasted
U.Va. alumni 14-8 in the first game of a
June 16 softball doubleheader. Rich Koch,
°75, George Berry, ’79, and other big guns
too numerous to mention sparked the
Generals. The second game was tied when it
had to be called on account of approaching
nightfall. ‘As usual,’? commented Chapter
President Bill Sturges, ’75, ‘‘we left the
Wahoos thirsty and in the dark.’’

DENVER. A group of W&L alumni
headed by Dick Mandelson, ’73, par-
ticipated in Denver’s first annual Old
Dominion Party on Saturday, June 16. The
event featured a barbecue dinner and was
held at the Kent Denver Country Day
School. Alumni from ten Virginia colleges
attended.

39

re - ee 7 - - 7 Be a a - a

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
  
  
 

 

  
 

     

   

 

 

 

    

| ; / :
: . . - a oe
/ - 7 . 7 /
a . : . : 7 . . - 7 | |
: : - a - -
: 7 a a . - - - - / ; - -
- 7 - 7 - - - - : - .
- : ; 7 : - - a :
Sob a : 7 5 7 - : : : - /
. a . - - - - ; . a. / 7 -
- ; : - : - -
: : - > - . 7 a - - :
a 7 _ - - + ,
- ; * - - - a - ;
7 : 7 - ; ; / : - / a - - . - - - - - - ; a - - 7
: 7 : ; > > 7 - / : 7
/ . . / oo a a a
a 7 7 - - : :
a
a
:
4
+
fo BOSTO
_ Black lacqu All black lacqu
- - : oe -
$145.00 f.o. $140.00 f.o.b.
a _
° _ : ee ’ / ; ; : a
. ington, Virginia 24450 a
oe a : ; a a : .
- a - . 7 :
7 - .
_ - a
a

 

 

R. G. Wallace, 51

D.C.G. Kerr, ’51

and the Virginia-West Virginia-North Carolina
Chapter of Robert Morris Associates and a director
of the Salvation Army.

ROBERT F. CAMPBELL received the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Award from Brenau College at commence-
ment in May “for applying both spiritual and
humanitarian qualities to daily life.’’

1944

BRYANT W. GILLESPIE is vice president of the Broad-
cast Division, Nightingale-Conant Corp. in
Chicago, IIl.

1948

JOHNSTON MCREE JR. is still practicing accounting
and running the Fat Cat Jazz Records, Inc. In
November they had the 18th Annual Manassas Jazz
Festival, the oldest continuous festival devoted to
traditional jazz on the continent.

1950

Joun S. LANE has been appointed judge of the Los
Angeles County Muncipal Court at Long Beach,
Calif. A former assistant U.S. attorney for the Cen-
tral District of California, he has been in private
practice in Long Beach for the past 13 years. He lives
there with his wife and two children. Judge Lane
holds the rank of commander on the retired list of
the U.S. Navy.

1951

Davin C. G. KERR, a leading Tampa businessman
and lawyer, has been chosen by past chairmen of the
Greater Chamber of Commerce Committee of 100
for-induction into the group’s Hall of Fame. The
honor recognizes individuals for their work in com-
munity development and has been described as the
“mOSt prestigious award given by the chamber.”’
Kerr, a past president of the Hillsborough County
Bar Association, the Chamber of Commerce and
former chairman of the committee, was active in for-
ming that group’s first long-range national
marketing plan. He also helped organize the Com-
mittee of 100 Board of Corporate Trustees fund
which plans to raise thousands of dollars to market
Tampa nationwide during the next two years. Kerr
is managing partner of the law firm of MacFarlane,
Ferguson, Allison & Kelly and a director of the Falk
Foundation.

THOMAS K. WOLFE JR. was a recipient of an honorary
doctorate from Long Island University at
Southampton in May.

1952

JUDGE F. NELSON LIGHT will retire in August after 29
years on the bench in Chatham, Va.

WILLIAM H. NELSON has retired as the director of the
physical plant for Southern Illinois University in
Carbondale. He now divides his time between his
home in Carterville, Ill, and Pass Christian, Miss.

   

 

HS. Glickstein, *55

1953

JUDGE HuGH S. GLICKSTEIN (See 1955.)

1954

WALTER E. SMITH presented a paper on the American
family at the University of London in July. Smith,
an ordained Episcopal priest, has a private practice
in marriage and family therapy in Atlanta.

ROBERT G. WALLACE, who has been manager of the
Atlanta advertising sales office for Reader’s Digest
for the past 15 years, will head the new Washington
office. Wallace joined the staff in 1966 as an ad sales
representative in the New York office.

JUDGE WILEY R. WRIGHT (See 1956.)

1955

JUDGE HuGH S. GLICKSTEIN was selected as the
Outstanding Jurist for the 1983-84 year by the Young
Lawyers Section of the Florida Bar. He was elected
after the eligible field of all state and federal judges
at every level was narrowed to a final field of six
highly rated Florida judges. He has also been ap-
pointed chairman of the American Bar Association
family law section’s task force on the needs of
children. Glickstein is judge of the 4th District Court
of Appeal in West Palm Beach.

Capt. THOMAS E. LOHREY Jr. (See 1957.)

1956

JUDGE WILEY R. WRIGHT JR. resigned as chief judge
of the Alexandria Circuit Court to resume his prac-
tice of law as partner in the firm of Thomas & Fiske
in Alexandria, Va. He has also been appointed to the

Virginia State Bar Council by. the Virginia Supreme
wount—

1957

JoHN M. Ham continues as the chairman of
mathematics at the Rippowamcisqua School in Bed-
ford, N-Y.

Capt. THOMAS E. LoHREY JR. recently completed a
tour of duty as circuit military judge in the southwest
judicial circuit of the Navy-Marine Corps trial
judiciary. He is currently assigned as staff judge ad-
vocate, Commander Naval Base in San Diego, Calif.

1959

L. GEOFFREY LAWRENCE is currently employed with
Simmonds Precision Products in Vergennes, Vt., as
a senior contracts administrator, with the respon-
sibility of negotiating purchase orders with govern-
ment prime contractors. Simmonds is a manufac-
turer of fuel gauging systems and instrumentation
for the B-1 bomber and most of the current military
air-superiority fighters.

1960

Dr. ROBERT H. SpratT is president of the medical
staff and director of the department of emergency

medicine at the Holy Redeemer Hospital in
Philadelphia.

MERVYN F. SILVERMAN is president-elect of the U.S.
conference of local health officers. He lives in San
Francisco.

1962

RoBERT D. Lewis has accepted a position as assistant
vice president for compensation and organization
planning with Northern Telecom, in Mississauga,
Ontario. He will be living in Oakville.

1963

Dr. ALEXANDER J. ALEXANDER Jr. has left his
clinical practice of medicine to pursue graduate
studies in immunology at the University of
Kentucky.

Davip R. GroGaANn is president and chairman of Ap-
plied Products, Inc. in Statesville, N.C., a licensed
manufacturer for Rubbermaid.

Dr. EDWARD W. Ho.mss JR. is the chief of the divi-
sion of metabolism, endocrinology and genetics at
the Duke University Medical Center. He is a pro-
fessor of medicine and assistant professor of
biochemistry at Duke.

KEN C. KowaALskK1 is associated with Creative Finan-
cial Management, Inc., a financial management and
consulting firm in Lynchburg.

JOHN P. MARCH served as chairman of the El Paso
Festival ’83 starring Ronnie Milsap, Ricky Skaggs
and the Kingston TriG. iMiarch continues as senior
vice president of the State National Bank of El Paso.

J. RICHARD UH lc II has been named to the board
of directors of McCormick Properties, Inc. He has
held various other positions within the company. He
is a member of the National Association of Cor-
porate Real Estate Executives, the National Associa-
tion of Industrial and Office Parks, the Greater
Baltimore Board of Realtors and the Building
Owners and Managers Association International.
McCormick Properties, Inc. is the real estate
development subsidiary of McCormick & Co., Inc.,
the Baltimore-based international producer of
seasonings, flavorings, and specialty foods.

H. MICHAEL WALKER is president of Guest Quarters
Development Corp., which develops, owns, and
manages all-suite hotels in Washington, D.C., Atlan-
ta, Houston, and Greensboro. They will open new
hotels in Tampa, Fla., and Charlotte, N.C., during
1984. Walker was also elected to the Norfolk, Va.,
Advisory Board of Sovran Bank, NA in January.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN (See 1969.)

1964

THoMAS R. GREEN is chairman of the Bay Area
Financial Planners Conference in 1984. He is alsoa
commander in the Naval Reserve.

41

Class Notes

NATHANIEL M. GriFFIN, director of the Little Rock
Office of Comprehensive Planning since 1977,
resigned to take a position with Flake and Co., a
development firm, as vice president of planning.

Ho tis I. Moore Jr. is with the Office of Public
Defender in Nashville, Tenn., as staff attorney. He
was previously magistrate for Davidson County,
Tenn.

JOHN Y. PEARSON Jr. is a member of the law firm of
Willcox, Savage, Dickson, Hollis & Eley in Norfolk.

1965

SAM P. SIMPSON IV is employed by Luling Oil & Gas
Co. as vice president of marketing in San Antonio,
Texas.

JAMES L. SURFACE has been elected vice president of
United Virginia Bank in Richmond, where he will
manage the estate settlement section for the capital
region. He was previously vice president and trust
counsel at Liberty National Bank and Trust Co. in
Louisville, Ky.

1966

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is a board member of Sloss Fur-
naces National Landmark in Birmingham, Ala.

CHaRtEs N. GRIFFIN is the general manger of the
Kodak Peruvian subsidiary. He, his wife, and three
sons live in Lima, Peru.

1967

CHRISTOPHER F, ARMSTRONG spent 1983-84 as a
visiting associate professor of sociology at Mount
Holyoke College in Massachusetts.

EDWARD N. BEACHUM, a long-time English instruc-
tor, received the J. Douglas Brown Award from
the board of trustees at the Darlington School’s
faculty appreciation dinner. He is a former chairman
of Darlington’s English department and is the direc-
tor of publicity and publications. Beachum, his wife,
Mary, and two children live on the campus in Rome,
Ga.

Warp W. Briccs Jr. has been promoted to professor
of classics at the University of South Carolina. He
has published two concordances on the Latin writers
Cato’and Varro.

STEWART R. FINDER is the director of administrative
services for Dorr-Oliver, Inc. in Stamford, Conn. He
is a frequent speaker in the U.S. and abroad on
various aspects of international business and inter-
national law for American Management Associa-
tion, World Trade Institute and area law and business
graduate schools.

In April 1984, B. MicHAEL HERMAN was promoted
to vice president for legal and legislative affairs of
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of southwestern Virginia.
The headquarters are in Roanoke.

42

 

E. N. Beachum, ’67

EDWARD B. ROBERTSON has been promoted from
pricing coordinator for Southern Europe to super-
visor of financial audit for Ford Germany. He and
his family live in Cologne, Germany.

WILLIAM S. WILDRICK remains active in the Naval
Reserve as commanding officer of UDT/SEAL PAC
119 in San Diego.

J. ANDERSON STALNAKER (See 1973.)

1968

Puitip G. CorTELL JR. wrote an article entitled
“LIFO Inventory Liquidation: A Key Planning Deci-
sion” which appeared in the May/June 1984 issue of
Managerial Planning.

JOHN M. LEE isin his second year of tenure-teaching
position as assistant professor of English at James
Madison University. He, his wife, Robin, and two
daughters live in Harrisonburg.

MICHAEL G. Morcan is chairman and president of
Charter Federal Savings and Loan Association in
Stamford, Conn. He is also an elected official in
Stamford, holding citywide office as chirman of the
board of finance.

1969

MARRIAGE: JaMEs C. HAMILL Jr. and Patrizia
Ricci, on Oct. 8, 1983, in Leesburg, Va. In attendance
were classmates Herbert W. Crenshaw Jr., Joseph T.
Small Jr., Allen R. Caskie and David L. Dowler. The
Hamills live in Washington, D.C.

Mas. RICHARD H. Bassett graduated on June | from
the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College
and is now assigned to the Defense Intelligence
Agency in Washington.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN has been elected an executive
vice president by the board of directors, BancOhio
National Bank in Columbus, Ohio. Boardman, who
serves on the senior management committee, is head
of the general counsel and development group and
has been general counsel for both the bank and
BancOhio Corporation since he joined the organiza-
tion in 1981. Prior to joining BancOhio, Boardman
was associated with the law firm of Porter, Wright,
Morris, & Arthur for 12 years where he was a part-
ner from 1975 to 1981. Previously he was employed
by First National City Bank in New York. Boardman
is a member of the American and Columbus Bar
Associations and the banking and business law sec-

tion of the American Bar Association. He also serves"

on the American Bar Association’s banking law
committee and the Ohio Bankers Association’s bank
counsel advisiory group.

Dr. JAMEs J. Livesay, an associate surgeon of the
Texas Heart Institute in Houston, has been elected
to Fellowship in the American College of Car-
diology, a 12,500-member nonprofit professional
medical society and teaching institution.

 

1970

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. BRUCE R. MACQUEEN, a
son, Evan Graham, on Sept. 16, 1983, in Sydney,
Australia.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN E. WETSEL JR. a
daughter, Haley McLaurine, on Jan. 30, 1984, in
Winchester, Va.

Dr. WILLIAM M. GorTwaLp has been named general
manager of The Elk Horn Coal Corp., an Ethyl
Corp. subsidiary. He has been associated with Ethyl
since 1981.

HEnry L. HILts JR. received at 1982-83 production
grant from the National Endowment for the Arts to
produce his new film, MONEY, which will premiere
in New York in the fall. He has an essay in The
L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E Book, which was just
published by Southern IIlinois Press and the text to
his film RADIO ADIOS is printed in the new issue
of O.ARS/Translations.

JOHN M. NoLan was sent by the U.S. Postal Service
to Germany for a month last fall to study postal
operations as part of an exchange of five executives
by the two countries.

1971

MARRIAGE: JerFrrey A. Davis and Lisa Ann
Davis, on April 14, 1984, in Austin, Texas. Davis is
a partner with the firm of Reynolds, Allen & Cook
in Houston, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRrs. CHARLES D. ANDREWS, a
daughter, Lindsay Elise, on Oct. 12, 1983. Andrews
has been transferred to the AT&T Communications
headquarters in Bedminster, N.J., as a staff manager
in labor relations.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLiAM A. GATLIN III, a
daughter, Claire Denby, on Sept. 8, 1983, in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

BIRTH: Cart. AND Mrs. GorDON S. MACRAE, a
son, Jason Matthew, on Nov. 28, 1983. They live in
Kaiserslautern, West Germany, where Macrae is the
S-2 officer for the 29th Area Support Group.

JOHN F. M. Bows II, recently named managing
editor of The Star-Democrat of Easton, Md., receiv-
ed the Scripps- Howard Foundation’s 1983 Edward
J. Meeman Award which recognizes efforts aimed at
helping the public understand and support conser-
vation. Bowie along with two other newspapermen
prepared a special supplement entitled, “The
Chesapeake: Who Will Save the Bay,’’ which
brought into clear perspective the complex causes
and results of pollution of the Chesapeake Bay. The
award was made on April 25 in Cincinnati. The
judges paid tribute to the paper’s coverage of the
Chesapeake Bay pollution problems. The supple-
ment also won a similar public service award from
the Associated Press in competition with AP-
member newspapers in the Chesapeake region.

Bowie joined The Star-Democrat in 1976. During his
tenure he has received several editoral awards from
the Maryland-Delaware-D.C. Press Association.

Marcus E. BROMLEY is the co-managing partner of
Crow-lerwilliger Partners, the residential develop-
ment unit for the Trammell Crow Group. He lives in
Dunwoody, Ga.

CLARK W. FAULKNER JR. is managing the Missouri
agency of Woodmen Accident & Life Co.

ROBERT J. JANTZEN JR. has joined Marriott Corp. as
vice president of sales and marketing for the com-
pany’s food service management division. He will be
responsible for directing and coordinating all sales
and marketing efforts for the division, which serves
clients in business, corporate education and con-
ference centers, health care and education.

ROBERT G. WOODWARD, former treasury tax
legislative counsel, has left Washington to return to
his former law firm, King & Spalding, in Atlanta.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. R. CHARLES SHUFELDT, a
son, Robert Burch, on Jan. 8, 1984, in Atlanta.
Shufeldt has joined Trust Co: of Georgia after eight
years in New York.

STEPHEN D. ANNAND has moved to Charleston,
WVa., after [2 years in northern Virginia.

JOHN C. O’NEAL has accepted a teaching position in
the department of romance languages and literature
at Hamilton College. He and his family will move to
Clinton, N-Y., in the fall when he will assume his
duties. O’Neal recently served as guest editor for a
special issue of the scholarly journal L’Esprit
Createur on the topic “Literature and Perception.”’
He has:also authorized a book on the eighteenth-
century thinker Jean-Jacques Rousseau.

EVERETT TUCKER III joined Flake and Co., a full-
service commercial real estate firm, in May 1983. The
firm is: developing a 40-story office tower in
downtown Little Rock, which will be the tallest
building in Arkansas. Tucker is a member of the
Vestry of Trinity Episcopal Cathedral and on the
board of trustees of the Arkansas Arts Center. He
and his wife, Becky, have two children, Cissy, 6, and
Clarke, 3.

MicuHaet L. Unt (See 1981.)

1973

MARRIAGE: J. ANDERSON STALNAKER and
Elizabeth:H. Pollock on: June 23, 1984, in Virginia
Beach: Stalnaker is:a partner in the Norfolk law firm

of Williams, Worrell, Kelly and Greer. He also served

as secretary of the Virginia Symphony and president
of the Friends of Norfolk juvenile court.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. DONALD D. EAVENSON JR.,

ason, Ryan Donald, on Jan. 12, 1984, in Abington,
Pa. Eavenson is a product director for the McNeil
Consumer Products Co., subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RICHARD E. Gray III, ason,
Richard Edwin IV, on April 7, 1984, in Austin, Texas.
Gray is a partner in the law firm of Gray & Becker.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. CRAIG R. WILLIAMS, a

daughter, Melody Jean, on March 29, 1984, in Spar-
tanburg, S.C.

In January, Dr. JoHn C. Dover entered into full-
time private practice with a specialty in neuro-
psychological assessment in Red Bank, N.J. He and
his wife, Barbara Jo, live in Freehold.

Lt. CMprR. CLYDE M. HENKEL 1s principal assistant:

legal officer for the Seventh Coast Guard District in
Miami, Fla. His major emphasis is to assist the US.

attorney on criminal drug smuggling prosecutions

and civil forfeitures of vessels smuggling drugs.

LAURIE A. MCALPINE has been made a Postulant for

Holy Orders from the Episcopal Diocese of South
Carolina and will be attending seminary at the

School of Theology, University of the South,
Sewanee, Tenn., beginning this fall.

Dr. CHARLES R. PENNINGTON opened a new office
in his hometown of Dillard, Ga., specializing in fami-
ly practice:

MICHAEL C. SCHAEFFER is on the staff of Umbro
Soccer Education Division and will spend the sum-

mer in Oklahoma and Kansas teaching soccer.

CeciL J. FRANCISCO III (See 1976.)

 

    
 

 

Ni

“ARR

1974

MARRIAGE: LEE R. REDMOND III and K.C.
Howard, on April 27, 1984, in Laguna Beach,-Calif.
Redmond is vice president of Regency Square Pro-
perties of Jacksonville. They live in Miami.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RoBeRT A. DOLL, a daughter,
Elizabeth Shelton, on Feb. 17, 1984, in Louisville.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM D. ELLIOT, a son,
William Rives, on March 8, 1984, in Roanoke, Va.
He joins two sisters, Emily 10, and Elizabeth, 8.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. MICHAEL GUROIAN, a
daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on Dec. 9, 1983, in Stam-
ford, Conn. Guroian owns and operates two laun-
dromats and several apartment house laundry room
facilities.

BIRT. 'H: Mr. AND MRs. STEVEN E. LEFTWICH, a
daughter, Charlotte Lee, on May 12, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. J. TIMOTHY THOMPSON, a
daughter, Catie, on March 16, 1984. Thompson, vice
president and manager of E. F. Hutton & Co., his
wife, Catherine, and older son, John, live in
Alexandria.

PAUL G. CAVALIERE JR. completed his graduate
degree in educational administration and supervi-
sion at Central Connecticut State University. He is
currently teaching grades seven and eight and
coaching varsity volleyball, basketball, and softbalf
im Middletown, Conn.

Ray-ERIc CorRrEA has been named a member of the
board of trustees of the Anglo-American School in
New York. Heis currently headmaster of the Flem-
ing School in mid-town Manhattan where he and his
wife, Kathleen, live. The Correas have just completed
construction on their summer home at The Hunt,
Inc..in Rockbridge County.

Gary W. McAULIFFE was recently promoted to pro-
fessional medical representative by the CIBA Phar-
maceutical Co. in Richmond.

JAMES A. HARTLEY (See 1977.)

B. MICHAEL HERMAN (See 1967.)

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. W. DEAN GENGE, a son,
William Harrison II, on March 31, 1984, in Green-
wich, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. VERNON F. OTTENRITTER
JR., a son, Stuart Francis, on April 29, 1983, in
Baltimore, Md.

BIRTH: DR. AND Mrs. PETER J. SCHNEIDER, a
daughter, Amanda Kathryn, on-Aug. 12, 1983, in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where Schneider is a resident
physician at Bowman Gray School of Medicine.
Amanda joins a brother, Paul, 3.

43.

 

M 1 . AND Mrs. PAUL I. La RKID
ct 8, 1983, i in Was

 

Dallas law f firm of f Stutzman & Bromberg. His
specialty is real estate law.

pam oe

 

BI. RTH: MR. AND Mrs. JAMES A. HARTLEY, a
daughter, meas catherine: « on n May 2 2, 1984, in

> MRs. SI CLAIR J. Harcus JR. a a
III, on June 24, 1983, in Charlc

 

 

GusTAVE A. FRITCHIE II] is an associate with the firm
of Montgomery, Barnett, Brown, and Read. He and
his wife, Carlotta, live in New Orleans, La.

THoMAS D. HELDMAN has been promoted to tax
manager with Price Waterhouse in Cincinnati, Ohio.

E. BREWINGTON HOUSTON JR. graduated from
medical school in June. His residency is at Parkland
Memorial Hospital in Dallas.

MIcHAEL J. MIssAL is currently a staff attorney with
the Division of Enforcement of the Securities & Ex-
change Commission.

ROBERT C. PEERY JR. has finished the M.B.A. pro-
gram at the University of Virginia Colgate Darden
School. He works in Richmond at Owens & Minor.

STEVEN C. YEAKEL is serving as executive director of
the Montana Republican Party and is responsible for
political, organizational, and financial operations.
He lives in Helena.

1979

MARRIAGE: D. KEITH CALHOUN and Louise A.
Howard, on Oct. 15, 1983. Calhoun is associated
with the Atlanta law firm of Long, Weinberg, Ansley,
& Wheeler.

MARRIAGE: Lynne E. PRyMAs and Andrew N.
Vollmer, on Jan. 21, 1984, in Washington, D.C.
Prymas is general counsel for International
Technology Underwriters.

J. PETER CLEMENTS has been elected international
banking officer at Wachovia Bank and Trust in
Winston-Salem, N.C. He joined the bank in 1982
and is an international account officer.

THOMAS OXENDINE JR. is the manager of Arby’s
restaurant in Lexington, Va.

K. ScorT SwoPE is employed by the Defense Map-
ping Agency as a cartographer in Washington, D.C.
He, his wife, and 1-year-old daughter, Jessica, live in
Columbia, Md.

1980

STEWART ATKINSON Jr. left the U.S. Army at the
rank of captain. He is employed by the Procter &
Gamble Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio, as a purchasing
manager. Atkinson spent four years on active duty
in the Far East, Middle East, Africa, and Central
America. He lives in Crestview Hills, Ky., with his
wife, Kathaleen.

STANLEY BARNES is enrolled in Emory University’s
Graduate School of Business Administration in
Atlanta.

MICHAEL F. DEIGHAN received his M.A. degree in
German at the University of Virginia and will con-
tinue to pursue a Ph.D. He hopes to spend the
academic year ’85286 in Germany.

CovERT J. GEARY graduated from the Louisiana
State University Law School and will begin a
clerkship with U.S. District Judge Peter Beer in New
Orleans in August.

STEPHEN R. KERN received his LL.M. in taxation
from the Georgetown University Law Center in May.
Upon completion of the Maryland Bar Examination
in July, he will be joining the Baltimore law firm of
Miles & Stockbridge as an associate specializing in
pension and deferred compensation planning.

MIcHAEL O. LaAvITT is a news editor for the Keyfax
National Teletext magazine, based in Schaumburg,
Ill.

MarkK E. LockuakrtT is a sales representative with
Pfizer Laboratories, a pharmaceutical manufacturer
in Walla Walla, Wash. He just completed a tour as
a Medical Service Corps officer in the Army.

THEODORE B. MARTIN JR. recently caught a record
king salmon in Lake Michigan. It was so big that it
took an extra boat to bring it to shore.

1981
MARRIAGE: C. CLEVELAND ABBE and PATRICIA M.
BROWN were married on Oct. 9, 1983. In attendance
were J. Kent Pearson Jr. ’82L, and C. Gillette (Jill)
Otey, ’81L. The couple lives in West Linn, Ore.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD J. EISEN and Marci Mayer
on Aug. 21, 1983, in Philadelphia, Pa. In attendance
were classmates Jeffrey H. Gray, Walter D. Kelley Jr.,
and John A. Moran. Eisen is an associate with the
law firm of Margulis & Grant in St. Louis.

MARRIAGE: R. ParK ELLs and Nancy Palmer, on
Oct. 29, 1983, in Shreveport, La. Alumni at the wed-
ding included classmates Rainey C. Booth, Dennis
A. Byrne, George A. Polizos, Robert H. Willis Jr.,
Frank S. Jones Jr., Madison T. Woodward, and
Charles J. Van Horn; F. Del H. Agnew, Parker
Roberts and John E. Monroe, all of 82; and Gustave
A. Fritchie III, ’78, and Covert J. Geary, ’80. The
couple lives in New Orleans where Ellis is employed
by Gillis, Ellis, and Baker insurance firm.

MARRIAGE: CHRISTOPHER F. MENEFEE and
Katherine H. Beck, in New Orleans, La. Menefee is
employed by Mumford, Inc., World Bazaar Division
Import/Export Co., in Atlanta, Ga.

MARRIAGE: Joun A. PRITCHETT and Kathryn
Page Sigmon on Oct. 8, 1983, in Danville, Va.

MARRIAGE: JOHN P. PURCELL and Elizabeth C.
VanValkenburgh, on Aug. 13, 1983, in Potomac, Md.
William W. Bourne, ’82, and James B. Hemby, ’81,
were members of the wedding party. Edward A.
Kramer, ’81, Daniel J. Raskin, ’81, and David R.
Donahue, ’83, were in attendance. Purcell is work-
ing on a doctorate in molecular and cellular biology
at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. He
was recently named a fellow of the university.

MARRIAGE: CAROLYN SAFFOLD and Rhys T.
Wilson, on June 2, 1984, in Atlanta, Ga. Saffold is
an associate with the law firm of Ware, Parker,
Johnson, Cook & Dunlevie where she practices com-
mercial real estate.

MARRIAGE: MELIssa J. WARNER and Gregory A.
McClenahan on April 15, 1984. She is associated
with the Minneapolis, Minn., firm of Faegre & Ben-
son as a member of the general litigation section.

WILLIAM L. ABERNATHY JR. has left his law practice
to become an Officer in the U.S. Army field artillery.
He has completed 14 months of training including
Ranger and Airborne schools and will be going to
Friedburg, Germany, for a tour.

PETER H. BENDA completed his M.S.A.A. degree at
the University of Washington in August. He is
employed by E-Systems, Inc. as an aeronautical
engineer.

J. ScorT CARDOZO is a student at the University of
Virginia. He is working for White & Case in New
York for the summer and expects to earn his
J.D./M.B.A. combination in May 1986.

JAMES T. COYLE JR. completed his M.S. degree at
Georgia Tech in computer science and is now presi-
dent and co-owner of Cognitive Systems, Inc., a soft-
ware development and consulting firm in Atlanta.

W. WARREN Crowpvws IITis in his second year at the
University of Chicago Law School and will be work-
ing as a summer associate for the firm of Baker &
McKenzie in Chicago.

GEORGE D. FAGAN graduated from the Louisiana
State University’s Paul M. Herbert Law Center in
May where he was president of the Student Bar
Association. He will practice with the firm of Ham-
mett, Leake and Hammett in New Orleans.

Davin B. IRvIN graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Law in May and has accepted a
position as an associate with the law firm of Thomas
& Fiske, P.C. in their Richmond office.

Davip A. LEwIs graduated from the University of
Pittsburgh School of Law in May. In September, he
will attend Boston University School of Law to pur-
sue an LL.M. in banking law studies.

Ist Lt. JAMES B. Moore is chief of the M-1 Tank
Training Development Program in the Ist Armor
Training Brigade at Ft. Knox, Ky.

Ist Lt. JAMES W. STEWART is stationed at the Sun-
nyvale Air Force Station in California and will be
working ona M.S.E.E. next fall at the University of
Santa Clara.

DouGLas W. WERTH has been promoted to senior ac-
countant at the Pittston Co., a firm involved in the
production and sale of coal in a worldwide market.

45

  

Class Notes

tant staff judge adve ocate v with the US. Air + Fo eat
Kennera A A. LaNGi isa lending officer for Be nker Tinker Air Force Base near Oklahoma City. He will
Trust Co. i in ney York. re attend. judge: advocate school at | Maxwell AFI 3 Ala.

pain iow grarngrar doe program in In- |

 

medical school at the | University 0 of Te nnessee. H e
served as social chairman for the first-year class and
will serve ¢ again next year i in addition to being vice

 

 

 

 

In Memoriam

 

In Memoriam

 

1916

MIKE SHOFFNER CANNON died Feb. 20, 1984, in
Memphis, Tenn. A Tennessee native, he taught at
three military schools. He was an instructor at
Sewanee Military Academy, a headmaster of
Alabama Military Academy, and taught at Colum-
bia Military Academy from 1930 to 1963.

1918

CHARLES HENRY ENGLE SPEROW, a former school
teacher, orchardist, and employee of the Mar-
tinsburg Veterans Administration Medical Center
for 17 years, died April 22, 1984, in Martinsburg,
W.Va. He was a member of the Trinity United
Methodist Church and the American Legion
Berkeley Post -14 for more than 50 years.

1921

STERLING W. ALDERFER Of Akron, Ohio, died in
February 1983.

1924

CLEAVELAND FORBES MILarr of Cortland, N-Y., died
Jan. 14, 1984.

BARRETT CLINTON SHELTON, editor and publisher of
The Decatur Daily for 60 years and a community
builder, died April 22, 1984, in Birmingham, Ala. He
was the organizer and first president of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce in Decatur and later
organized a new Chamber of Commerce in 1930 and
served five times as its president. In addition to the
creation of jobs through his chamber leadership, he
became active as chairman of the Tennessee River
Valley Development Association. In 1969 Shelton
received the William Crawford Gorgas Award from
the Medical Society of Alabama. In 1975 he receiv-
ed the Audie Murphy Patriotism Award, the Grover
C. Hall Memorial Award for outstanding perfor-
mance by an Alabama journalist, and was named
Democrat of the Year by the Morgan County Young
Democrats. In 1976 Shelton was named to the
Alabama Academy of Honor and last year received
The Distinguished Service Medal of Alabama. He
belonged to a multitude of civic organizations and
was widely regarded as the leading citizen of Decatur
and North Alabama.

1925

WALTER EVERETT LINDBERG of Charleston, W.Va.,
died in January of this year.

1926

EUGENE KERFOOT JACKSON, retired chief of opera-
tions for the U.S. Army Corps Engineers, died March
6, 1984, in Norfolk, Va.

JOHN PAUL BRONSTEIN (SEE 1930.)

1927

MILTON KOLB Harpy died April 7, 1977, in Ardmore,
Okla.

1929

DaviD TERRY KIMBROUGH JR., a long-time Memphis
developer and builder, died April 17, 1984, in Mem-
phis, Tenn. He was instrumental in development of
Chickasaw Gardens and was a force in Memphis
home building and development for more than 50
years. Kimbrough was president of the Memphis
Home Builders Association for two terms and past
director of the National Home Builders Association.
He was past president of Chickasaw Country Club
and served on the vestry and was senior warden of
St. John’s Episcopal Church.

ARCH SNEAD, a retired salesman, died Feb. 16, 1984,
in Covington, Va. He was a member of the United
Methodist Church.

1930

JOHN PAUL BRONSTEND,, assistant general manager for
Trojan Division of International Minerals, died
April 14, 1984, in Mt. Gretna, Pa. He was a member
of the Statler Club of Cornell University.

FLETCHER GARLAND May Jr. died April 7, 1984. He
enjoyed hunting and fishing and had lived for the
past 16 years at Crystal Springs Fishing Village,
Royal, Ark.

1933

JAMES RUCKER RYLAND died April 4, 1984. He was
a retired executive of Union Camp Corp., a com-
municant of Emmanuel Episcopal Church in
Franklin, Va., where he served for many years as
treasurer. Ryland was a member of the Society of the
Cincinnati of the Commonwealth of Virginia and
the First Families of Virginia. He served on the board
of the Jackson-Feild Home for Girls and the Com-
mission of Alcoholism of the Diocese of Southern
Virginia and was past commodore and charter
member of the Fishing Bay Yacht Club.

   

Rs
BS

 
 
      
    
  

ATION
Wy

Ey]
iy ry
r HY
Hy
1
p

   
  

oy ; SSE TICTT AT
RO AN RO
seeeaeaee vy NNR
Au :
7
¥
i

 
  
    
        
  

\
| i
}

 

|

 

| |
|
|

 

 

 

  

 

 
        
 
 
   
  

 
      
  
 

   

ny
s a ah
>? -—— + —  — — h
ANS SS eo
A
A AY
— VK) Kee

eS
ae
23

at
R Ls
a 3
a Gusanes
ae

i>

Oo

   

 
   
 
 
  
  
  

2
Cc
42

TH
Bal

TT
Wi

MN rn
|
eZ
Ba
/
42

Aa

IT]
eH
oO

<]
Ay
aN
Fry
rill
Soe
~

    
 
  

Nf

 

Cen

EX
Lt

   
 
 
 

,
STS

iT)

 

Sy

Ca edad
Piel f
Y)

4

  
 

1934

KNIGHT LAIRD of Jonesboro, Ark., died in late fall,
1983.

HOWARD FRANKLIN SMITH, a retired engineer with
the city of Meriden, Conn., died May 7, 1984.

1939

PETER WILLOUGHBY TRAYNOR JR., formerly of
Baltimore, died Dec. 17, 1983.

1940

JOHN HOWARD ABSALOM Jr. died Oct. 31, 1980, in
Macon, Ga. He was employed by Georgia Livestock
Breeder’s Journal.

1945

WILEY IAEGER BEAVERS, formerly with the Northern
States Power Co., died in February 1984.

1957

CHARLES J. HERBERT, a native of Baltimore who was
executive vice president for sales and distribution for
Heublein, Inc., died May 21, 1984. He was an All-
American lacrosse player at the University of
Maryland in 1950 and coached W&L lacrosse in 1954
and 1955. Herbert was active in civic affairs and was
cited for his work by the Anti-Defamation League
of B’nai B’rith, Brandeis University, the Fund for
Higher Education and by the Nassau (N-Y.) Chapter
of the Association for the Help of Retarded
Children.

EDWARD HATCHER OULD III, vice president of
United Virginia Bank in Lynchburg, died May 27,
1984, in Gloucester County. He was the third genera-
tion of a Western Virgina banking family. Ould,
formerly of Roanoke, had lived in Martinsville from
1972 until last year.

1964

DouGLas McARTHUR Powers, formerly of
Coeburn, Va., is deceased.

1967

EDWARD ALLEN Dopp JrR., maritime lawyer in New
Orleans and former assistant district attorney in
Houston, died May 29, 1984. He was a member of
the Texas Bar Association and the Maritime Law
Association, a national group.

1980

ANTHONY AUGUST CARLI JR. died on March 2 in
Washington, D.C.

1982

PFc. JOHN ROSER BEsToR died in a rafting accident
in the Potomac River near Washington, D.C. along
with several friends on May 5, 1984. Bestor, a former
resident of Glastanbury, Conn., was a member of the
Army’s Elite 3rd Infantry Regiment, called the Old
Guard. Four victims of the off-duty accident were
Old Guard members.

47

 

7 ¢ - / :
prwrwwwvevwwewwvwvwwvevwwvrewty

  
   
   

 

education

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in-

 

 

 

 

When the coeducation issue resurfaced I
thought again about those experiences and
about my days at Washington and Lee. In
doing so I realized how much those memories
affect the way I approach issues which
Washington and Lee must face, not two
decades ago when I was there, but today. The
small classes, the heritage, the traditions
forged a bond to W&L as we became a part,
not of a large impersonal institution, but, of
a centuries-old community, and it became a
part of us. Changing that, I feared, would
alter the Washington and Lee I knew and
loved. I had no choice but to think deeper
as to what the quintessential Washington and
Lee is.

No more do I even think that the impor-
tant issue facing Washington and Lee is
coeducation, and as alumni we should not
divide ourselves on this matter. The impor-
tant issue is what policies, in light of a
dynamic and changing environment, will
enable Washington and Lee strategically not
only to maintain its position as an excellent
educational institution, but go beyond that
and achieve its fullest potential. This is the
vital issue facing W&L. Surely, as alumni,
we are united in wanting this goal for W&L.
The destiny of what Washington and Lee will
be for the next century most likely will be
determined in the next couple of months.
With the right decisions, W&L can be one
of the preeminent educational institutions in
the United States. With the wrong decisions,
W&L can become an anachronism.

It is for this reason that I applaud rais-
ing the questions which strike to the core of
what Washington and Lee is today and what
it can be tomorrow. This might, at times, be
unpopular and probably many in the W&L
constituency would prefer that such ques-
tions be ignored, hoping they will disappear
and not have to be faced. But, they won’t
disappear and it is the resolution of these
issues which will chart W&L’s course for
decades to come.

Unfortunately, as evidenced in its admis-
sions, W&L has suffered erosion in its
academic standing these past few years. The
selection of Washington and Lee last fall as
the best ‘‘small comprehensive university”’
seemed a hollow honor to me since we do
not compete with the other schools in that
category for students, and we were not judg-
ed against the top liberal arts school with
which we do compare ourselves. There was
a day when W&L competed for top-quality
students with Yale, Princeton, Williams,
Davidson, etc.—unfortunately, no more.
These schools were all male in an era when
it was appropriate, but when the concept
became obsolete they adapted to a new en-

vironment and passed W&L by. In so doing,
I don’t think they lost the distinctiveness or
the traditions that defined them, but merely
gained additional strength.

In light of this erosion, the difficulty to-
day to attract and enroll the very top
students, the precipitous future decrease of
students available as applicants to W&L, the
role women are taking today in society, and
the need for a greater sense of university
community, then the decision to be made on
coeducation seems rather easy to me. I say
this because I believe the primary objective
should be to ensure that W&L regains its
distinctiveness as a top-quality school, to at-
tract the best students, and to move forward
to become one of the preeminent schools in
the United States. This is the vital issue fac-
ing W&L and it is a strategic one.

Most likely the present situation W&L
faces with respect to the gender of her
students are mere legacies of what were, at
one time, pragmatic approaches to the pro-
blems and needs faced years ago in a dif-
ferent world. I imagine that these were not
undertaken to define a unique character and
be revered as some tradition which defines
Washington and Lee but were policies whose
adoption, either by intent or by default, ade-
quately served their purpose as long as the
demands of the world remained the same.
The world has not remained the same since
those policies were adopted, and Washington
and Lee must change if it is to survive and
prosper.

The organization that does not face
realities and does not plan for the future will
not have one. No army could successfully
fight a war using obsolete weapons and out-
dated strategy. No corporation could long
succeed without adjusting to changing
market places, new technology, and more ad-
vanced management practices. Washington
and Lee as a university should not be ex-
pected to do less.

Borrowing from former Senator
Fulbright, I think that Washington and Lee
is faced with ‘‘old myths and new realities.”’
Probably some of the W&L constituency

 

want to hold onto old myths, but are not
aware of, or do not want to accept the new
realities that the University faces. Lee would
have faced them. He was a realist who learn-
ed from experience. It was Lee who chang-
ed Washington College and he changed it
dramatically. He innovated; he ex-
perimented; he reorganized. He sought to
prepare students for realities. He believed in
“*practical education.’’ It was Lee who said,
**IT always respect persons and care little for
precedent.’’

Lee would have charted the future of
Washington and Lee and not been bound by
precedent. It is this spirit of Lee and all the
other traditions which make Washington and
Lee unique among other universities. And
the traditions that make Washington and Lee
unique are not just the rich heritage that
history has bestowed on her since 1749, but
a community which offers an excellent
education in an atmosphere which also
develops and molds the human spirit,
character, honor, integrity, and respect for
one’s fellow man. These are the traditions
which make W&L a very special place. This
very distinctiveness represents W&L’s
strength—not whether it has been all male
for 235 years. All schools founded in the 18th
century or before were all male until a few
years ago. Washington and Lee was distinc-
tive when Harvard, Dartmouth, UVa, and
other schools were all male, and W&L will
be just as distinctive if it goes coeducational.

Washington and Lee is once again at a
pivotal point in its history. It can look to the
past or it can look to the future. It needs to
define for itself its mission, its purpose, its
goals, its aspirations. W&L’s long and rich
history should not enslave it to the past but
serve as a strength with which to approach
the future confidently. Washington and Lee
needs only to follow the spirit and example
of Lee to enter the future.

The only limitation Washington and Lee
faces is its vision of itself. What a pity it
would be if through inaction, fear of change,
or a nostalgic yearning for the past W&L
should become an anachronism and decline
to mediocrity when it could so easily become
one of the preeminent undergraduate educa-
tional institutions in the United States.

NAT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

Editor:

We all know that, simply by statistics,
there is a place in higher education for a
quality all-male, undergraduate college. If
the SAT scores of applicants are dropping,
it is due, partly, to W&L’s academic pro-

49

 

(1)adollar, in

.

 

 

rsity—

] 7 oe / . . : ; oe /

oe oe OS | ; a . | |
7 1 - ee : : : 4 (

- oe 7 - a : : 7 7 : - 7 a . a

 

 

 

tury. What progress!

I envision a vast new educational com-
plex, a kind of coed playground something
like, well, maybe, Michigan State. No more
need to compete for high school seniors seek-
ing a serious college education in a special
setting free from distraction. Leave them to
Hampden-Sydney, a college that has become
better known here in New England than
W&L for its academic prowess.

For us: bigger fish to fry. Now we can
go head to head for scholars with UVa,
William & Mary, James Madison, all the
Carolina universities (North and South), plus
several Ivy League institutions. So what if
W&L has become only one more school in
the current plethora of coeducational univer-
sities. We’re mod. That’s what really counts.
Right?

No problem. We start recruiting mindless
jocks, dizzy drum majors and pom-pom girls
with Pepsodent smiles. Toughen up our foot-
ball schedule; transform Wilson Field into
a stadium. And, we can become a coeduca-
tional factory just like the worst of them.

Huzza for 1984, the Brave New World
and all those W&L ‘‘Gentlepeople’’ who per-
formed euthanasia on our venerable institu-
tion. How do we retain at least a shred of
tradition? We could, I suppose, reconstruct
and, once again, exhibit the skeleton of Lee’s
horse, ‘‘Traveller,’’ provided, of course, we
exhume and also exhibit the bones of
Traveller’s mate.

S. SCOTT WHIPPLE, *58
Stamford, Conn.

Editor:

On July 16th I read in The Washington
Times that our Board of Trustees has seen
fit to destroy yet another fine old tradition
by making Washington and Lee University
a coeducational institution. Why, when
almost every tradition associated with this
University is being (or has been) destroyed
—why remove still another? Supposedly it
is because W&L may feel the economic pinch
of fewer applicants over the next few years.
I believe the Trustees were ‘‘stampeded”’ into
taking premature action. Couldn’t they have
at least waited (1) until the severity of the
economic problems (if any occur) was clearly
determined, and (2) until these problems
were considerably closer to becoming a reali-
ty, before taking such a drastic step?

Although the Trustees must bear most of
the blame for this action, three other groups
are also partly responsible: (1) the alumni in
general, only about 40 percent of whom even
bothered to send in their questionnaires; (2)
the really wealthy alumni (unfortunately I am

 

not one of them!), who made no attempt (at
least to my knowledge) to form a coalition
offering to supply money to take up any
slack caused by temporarily low enrollment;
and (3) those faculty members who ad-
vocated coeducation, some probably to make
their jobs more secure.

Now that nearly all traditions at W&L are
gone, why don’t the Trustees go one step fur-
ther? Why not tear down Lee Chapel and
build a nice coed dormitory facing the Col-
onnade? After all, couldn’t we attract more
female applicants by offering them the best
view in Lexington?

In closing I would like to say that while
my love for Washington and Lee will never
die, it will never be as strong as it once was;
that I mourn with those Trustees who voted
against coeducation; and I wish with all my
heart that God had not let me live to see this
happen.

KARL M. FUNKHOUSER, 57
Arlington, Va.

Editor:

I am shocked at the Trustees’ decision to
make Washington and Lee a coeducational
institution. The reasons offered for such a
radical change seem to me to be wholly in-
adequate and unpersuasive. The two main
reasons given were a drop in the 18-year-old
population for a period of less than a decade
and having W&L fit in with what was
perceived as a changing world.

I was unaware that a college such as
Washington and Lee was supposed to be an
exact microcosm of a larger world. Rather,
I assumed that Washington and Lee was a
four-year respite from some of the demands
of the outside world, allowing contempla-
tion, reflection, and intellectual growth.

 

The changes to the University will go far
beyond women matriculating and receiving
W&L degrees. If the present student body
size is to be maintained and the number of
female students comes close to approaching
the 50 percent mark, then the present frater-
nity system is in serious danger. Simple
arithmetic tells one that if only 600 to 700
male students matriculate in the future, a
number of fraternities, if not the whole
fraternity system, will vanish. I suspect that
the administration intends to end the present
fraternity system and substitute in its stead
a system more obedient to the will of the
faculty and administration.

The administration may, however, ex-
pand the size of the student body. I would
not be surprised to see a total student body
of between 2,000 and 3,000 before a decade
has passed. While this may not sound like
a large school, it is my feeling that an in-
crease of this size would have a severely
negative impact upon the educational ex-
perience at Washington and Lee.

In keeping with the progressive spirit now
sweeping Washington and Lee, I offer a sug-
gestion for a change in the name of the
university. In order to reduce the cost of
changing emblems, stationery, etc., I con-
clude that the initials W&L should be retain-
ed. I suggest, however, that the name now
be Washington and Leigh. This name would
forcibly carry the new university’s message
that it has joined the academic mainstream
and that it is no longer a haven for indolent
southern men.

Thanks to the previous administrations,
faculty, and others who provided me with
a wonderful four-year experience and an
equally pleasant association as an alumnus.
I am sorry that future young men will not
be able to have that experience and very
upset that this institution has been changed
so radically.

JOEL W. MOHRMAN, ’77
Houston, Tex.

(See Page 6 for comments made at the
Trustees’ press conference concerning the im-
pact of coeducation on institutional size and
fraternities.—Ed.)

An open letter to the Trustees:

This is truly one of the saddest times of
my life, for your vote has destroyed
something which gave me foundations and
ideals upon which I have based my life. I am
reminded of a lesson I learned as a pledge
in a fraternity at Washington and Lee: I was
told to be thoughtful of my future but ever-
mindful of my past. I believe in the wisdom
of that message and I offer it to you—Fear

51

not the future; forget not the past; for it is
the past from whence we came and the past
upon which we stand; for it is the past which
is of what we are made.

Your decision, you claim, may well be
forward-looking; your decision, however,
has exorcised from the soul of the college its
past—our tradition. For it was our past—
our tradition—which gave us pride; it was
our past which set us apart. Your decision
has launched Washington and Lee into a new
era of mediocrity only to be paralleled by
such great institutions as Radford, Ferrum,
and Randolph-Macon.

An ancient Jewish custom where a parent
tore his clothing in the presence of his child
symbolized that the child no longer existed
in the eyes of the parent. This is, perhaps,
the best way that I can express to you my
feelings for the mutation which your vote has
created. My love was deep and my loyalty
fierce for a university which had given and
taught me so much. I do not recognize it now
—it no longer exists.

—PRYSE Roy ELam, ’83

Editor:

The recent decision about coeducation
underscores again how fortunate we are to
have a Board of such dedicated and talented
persons concerning themselves about the
future of our beloved school. I hope other
alumni will join me in supporting the decision
and in expressing confidence that it will be im-
plemented in a way that enhances the Univer-
sity’s tradition of educational excellence in an
environment of personal integrity and mutual
respect.

ROBERT E. R. HUNTLEY, ’5S0, ’57L
Richmond, Va.

Editor:

In my capacity of serving as the eyes for
fellow alumni and other members of the far-
flung W&L community who were not here
for the most recent meeting of our Board of
Trustees, I must admit to a feeling of frustra-
tion that my photographs of the press con-
ference which followed that meeting do not
convey much of the essence of what was said
there. Thus I write this letter.

Trustee A. Christian Compton had, to
my mind, the most bitter pill to swallow
among our four men who met the press, be-
ing the spokesman for the loyal opposition
to the Board’s decision. The key word here
is loyal. While Justice Compton was candid
about his own personal feelings on coeduca-
tion, he also reaffirmed his commitment to
assuring the best possible future for our alma
mater, and made it clear that he has no plans

52

to jump ship because of this change in our
admissions policy.

It is my hope and prayer that others who
preferred the retention of an all-male
undergraduate student body will reach the
same conclusion as Justice Compton, which,
paraphrased and interpolated, is this: All of
us are still on the same team.

We certainly have our work cut out for
us. With one less ‘‘unique’’ characteristic
(and one of the most visible at that), it is up
to all of us to prove that Washington and
Lee remains a unique, viable, and
worthwhile institution nevertheless.

In 235 years thus far, this school has fac-
ed many challenges, and prospered more
often than history and the laws of chance
would seem to dictate. In this latest time of
change, I believe we can look again to the
example of General Lee, who was, among
other virtuous things, not in any way a sore
loser. During his administration, the decision
was made to admit northerners, which was
not especially popular among our alumni of
that day. Yet here we are, more than a cen-
tury later, stronger for having done so.

 

t g Ree

es

 

j ments — "4 wd
Vea oe te

I can only conclude that anyone who
bails out now is a fair-weather friend, but
I also have faith that for each such son we
lose, another son—or daughter—will take his
place.

W. PATRICK HINELY, ’73
Lexington, Va.

(Mr. Hinely is a free-lance photographer
whose work provides Washington and Lee
with the major portion of its photographic
needs.)

A WELCOME KIND WORD

Editor:

I just wanted to write you a quick note
to first say how impressed I was with the
most recent issue of the Alumni Magazine,
the issue dealing with coeducation and the
Mock Convention. My compliments for your
very fine efforts in making Washington and
Lee’s Alumni Magazine one of the best
around!

T. JEFFREY DRISCOLL, ’72
Bryn Mawr, Pa.

FALL SPORTS SCHEDULES

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.

Nov.
Nov.

Nov.

15
22
29
13
20
27

10

22

29

13

20

27

17

FOOTBALL

Dickinson
Emory and Henry
Centre
Randolph-Macon
Maryville
Hampden-Sydney
(Homecoming)
University of the South
Bridgewater
Samford
(Parents’ Weekend)
Lebanon Valley

CROSS COUNTRY

Mary Washington,
Washington College

Roanoke College,
Norfolk State

American University,
Catholic

Va. State Div. II & III

West Virginia Inst. of Tech.,

Bridgewater,
Newport News App.

Hampden-Sydney,
Eastern Mennonite,
Lynchburg

ODAC Championships

NCAA Division III
Regionals

NCAA Division III
Championships

HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME

Away

Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away

Away

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.
Nov.

15-16
22
25
29

10
13

20
27
30

14-16
21-23
29-30

6-7
12-14
19-21

2-4

9-11
23-25

SOCCER

Emory University Tourn.
Averett
Mary Washington
Maryville
Eastern Mennonite
Hampden-Sydney
Lynchburg
Gettysburg
(Homecoming)
Messiah
UNC-Greensboro
Roanoke
Radford
(Parents’ Weekend)
VMI

WATER POLO

W&L Fall Classic
Northeast Varsity Invit.
Va. St. Championships
Southern League Tourn.
Southeast Varsity Invit.
Southern League Tourn.
Southern League
Championships
Eastern Championships
NCAA Championsnhips

 

Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME

Away
Away
Away
HOME

Away

HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME

Away
Away
Away

Season tickets for all Washington and Lee athletic
contests are available to W&L alumni. Family passes,
priced at $30, are good for six football games, 14
basketball games, and five lacrosse games. For infor-
mation, write or call the Department of Athletics,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450, (703) 463-8670.

The Alumni Magazine of g22E2 VA<ePYOMM2EY Second Class Postage Pati
: U

| ee o-sTey + L< At Lexington, Virginia 24450
hee AND LEE UN. sues iP L tetue q *4W And Additional Mailing Offices
Lexington, Virginia 24450 V SOLe700 -

CA,
W&L HOMECOMING 1984

and

 

ANNUAL FIVE-STAR
GENERALS REUNION

Special Honorees
W&L’s 1934 Southern Conference Football Champions

SPEAK ALS UETEAI JINTIANS ena
‘TO RETAIN ST, Lt

 

 

 

OCTOBER 12. 3)

Friday, October 12:

e 4:00 p.m.—The John Randolph Tucker Lecture: Professor Arthur S. Miller
e 5:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming Queen Court
e 9:00 p.m.—Student Activities Board: A Concert at the new Student Pavilion

Saturday, October 13:

10:00 a.m.—Soccer: The Generals vs. Gettysburg College
11:30 a.m.—Alumni Luncheon

1:30 p.m.—Football: The Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney College
4:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception: The Alumni House

Plus Special Reunion Events for the Five Star Generals and The 1934 Generals Football Team

For More information write:
Homecoming ’84
Washington & Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

