  

 

a
4

| ; Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

| Spring 1989

 

 

5
a
i
t sl
, 7
.
, A
J ,
, F
A
:
4]
J
-
5
c f
a «|
p t
* “aa
. J
t
>»
I
¥
Se
7 -
ad *
’
. eo
e
¥
, A
4 7
4
ria
;
¥
SS. Su
>
a
Sa
.)
¢
— ~
Ms
re
J
r
S
" a
> >
, ‘
mm wt ee
i >
.
a
A
o
“=
a
+
- Ras
- y
c je
a %ej
t .
. a
a —
‘3
$ a
‘a
. .
3

 

Last month, the Council for the Advancement and Support of
Education (CASE) bestowed upon Washington and Lee a bronze medal
in its 1989 national recognition program. The winning entry in the com-
petition was a lavish, 40-page publication, written and designed by F.E.
Worthington Inc. of Baltimore, which has been used by the School of
Law during the past year to recruit new students.

Earlier in the year, the law school recruiting brochure and two com-
panion publications had received an ‘‘Award of Excellence’’ from
CASE’s District III division. In addition, a group of three publications
used by the undergraduate admissions office, including one specifical-
ly designed to attract more minority students, won a Special Merit
Award from District III. But the bronze medal marks the first time
in anyone’s memory that a Washington and Lee publication has been
honored by the national CASE program, so it is special cause for pride.

There is more good news to report in the area of Washington and
Lee communications. Nine alumni and friends of the University have
agreed to serve on a newly formed Communications Advisory Board,
which will provide valuable guidance and assistance to W&L’s profes-
sional staff.

The board members are David M. Clinger, ’55, managing partner
with the Public Relations Council in Richmond; James J. Dawson, ’68,
*71L, associate headmaster of the McDonogh School in Baltimore and
a member of W&L’s Alumni Association Board of Directors; Andrew
H. McCutcheon, ’48, vice president and national marketing director
for Reynolds Aluminum Recycling Co. in Richmond; Robert Mottley,
64, contributing editor of Colonial Homes magazine in New York;
Elizabeth Obenshain, business editor of the Roanoke Times & World-
News and a former member of W&L’s journalism faculty; Frank A.
Parsons, ’54, director of capital planning at W&L; Matthew W. Pax-
ton Jr., 49, publisher of Lexington’s News-Gazette; Charles S. Rowe,
45, editor and co-publisher of the Free Lance-Star in Fredericksburg,
Va., and member of W&L’s Board of Trustees; and Sarah K. Wiant,
°78L, director of W&L’s Law Library.

They are a distinguished group indeed, and we are fortunate that
they have agreed to serve the University in this important new endeavor.
At their inaugural meeting in Lexington in April, the board members
provided much in the way of insight and direction to those of us con-
cerned with communications at Washington and Lee, and we look for-

ward to their continued assistance in the future.
—A.B.C.

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
Volume 64, Number 2, Spring 1989

 

ANNE COULLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHAW, Assistant Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

Joun D. KLINeEpDrnsT, ’71, ’78L, President
San Diego, Calif.

JoHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72, Vice President
Tampa, Fla.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

James D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Associate Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

BENJAMIN L. BAILEy, ’75
Charleston, W.Va.
WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61
Hilton Head Island, S.C.
JOHN A. COCKLEREECE JR., 76, ’79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.
JamMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.
WALLER T. (BEAU) DUDLEY, ’74, ’79L
Alexandria, Va.
G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Staunton, Va.
CLAY T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.
ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas
JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.
EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., ’61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio
MICHAEL G. MorRGAN, ’68
Stamford, Conn.
J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, °56, ’58L
Baltimore, Md.
EUGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.
JOHN W. RoBINson IV, ’72
Tampa, Fila.
WILLIAM E. SMITH Jr., ’63
Birmingham, Ala.
WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.
MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L
Atlanta, Ga.
RICHARD R. WARREN, °57
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in September, December, March, and June
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450.
All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at
Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright 1989 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

Sophomore
Shawn Wert
demonstrates the
© form that made
her one of the
Generals’ leading
scorers this year
in women’s
lacrosse. A spring

TOTO Oe Ne Ny ee “Wanetee sports wrap-up

 

begins on page
41.

 

Russian Studies for the Masses

 

Classroom Ambassadors

 

12

The Justice Returns

 

14

The Satanic Controversy

 

19

The Legacy of the Beechenbrooks

 

21

The Spring Gazette

 

41

The Generals’ Report

 

+4

Class Notes

 

51

In Memoriam

 

54

And Furthermore

 

Front and back cover photos by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

Russian Studies
for the Masses

by Anne Coulling

 

 

ashington and Lee students have
always had an affinity for Red
Square.

The one in Lexington, that is—the two-
block area adjacent to campus where five
fraternities have their chapter houses. Much
of Washington and Lee’s social life revolves
around that neighborhood, and nearly every
weekend at least one party occurs in the
vicinity—to the occasional dismay of local
residents and police.

But these days, W&L undergraduates are
developing a greater interest in the other Red
Square—the one in Moscow, where the word
*‘party’’ is used in a different context
altogether. Students are beginning to discuss
perestroika, study Soviet history, and even
conjugate Russian verbs more than ever
before. For the first time, three Soviet
undergraduates enrolled at Washington and
Lee during the past academic year (see

related story beginning on page 8); and in the
spring term just ended W&L sponsored its
first study-abroad program in the Soviet
Union and Poland. (Enrollment peaked at
30, and some would-be travelers had to be
turned away.) Perhaps most significantly,
one student has declared an independent ma-
jor in Russian studies for the first time.
Glasnost has come to Washington and
Lee University, in a small college town
located thousands of miles away from the
Kremlin. And from all accounts, students
and faculty alike hope it’s here to stay.

ong before it became chic for
American rock stars to perform in the
U.S.S.R., and before Mikhail and
Raisa Gorbachev appeared on popularity
lists in the United States, Washington and
Lee students were learning about the Soviet
Union. Courses in the history of that nation

Lamar Cecil, William R. Kenan Jr. professor of history, believes interest in Russian studies has grown because of the
‘‘thaw’’ in relations between the United States and Soviet Union.

W&L

 

have been offered at W&L for years, and
William W. Pusey, former dean of the Col-
lege and professor of German, began
teaching Russian language classes in the early
1950s, around the beginning of the Cold
War.

But only in the last few years has the term
‘‘Russian studies’’ been used at Washington
and Lee with any real frequency. Today the
University has on its faculty three Soviet
specialists: historian Richard H. Bidlack;
political scientist Craig W. McCaughrin; and
Greta Z. McCaughrin, a native of the Soviet
Union, who teaches language courses.
Together with Lamar Cecil, William R.
Kenan Jr. professor of history, they con-
stitute the Russian area studies committee,
which oversees an interdisciplinary program
of academic and extracurricular activities
ranging from classes such as ‘‘The Growth
of Imperial Russia’’ to a Russian Club that
meets once a week for an hour and a half
of Russian language practice.

So far, the University does not offer a
major in Russian studies (although students
may design their own independent major in
the subject). As on most other campuses,
enrollments in language courses are relatively
low, although that is expected to change next
year, when a new faculty member, Leningrad
emigre Zhanna Dolgopolova, will begin
teaching upper-level Russian language and
literature courses. Still, the program is ex-
panding rapidly, and it received a large boost
last summer from the Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation, which provided funding for a
native teaching assistant position, faculty
development, library acquisitions, and a lec-
ture series, among other things.

One reason for all this curricular expan-
sion: Washington and Lee students asked for
it. ‘Students wanted Russian studies, and
that caught us somewhat unawares,’’ ex-
plains Craig McCaughrin. ‘‘In this case,
Supply has followed demand.’’

Enrollment figures support his claims.
When he first taught a course in Soviet
Politics at W&L back in 1981, 23 students
Signed up. When the same course was offered
in 1988-89, enrollment had grown to 65. The
numbers for Russian history courses are
Similarly impressive.

A number of fac-
tors have contributed
to the increased de-
mand for Russian
studies at Washington
and Lee. One of
those, believes Cecil,
is the ‘‘thaw’’ in rela-
tions between the
United States and the
Soviet Union.

‘‘We no longer
regard the Russians as
enemies behind the
curtain,’’ he explains.
‘*We realize that some
accommodation is
necessary, and that
means talking and
educating ourselves
about the Soviet
Union—its past, pres-
ent, and future. We
need to understand,
although that doesn’t
mean to forget.

*““We’ve decided
that if we’re going to
live together with
them in this world, we’ve got to get along
with them.”’

But there’s another reason why
Washington and Lee students are signing up
for Russian studies courses, Craig
McCaughrin believes. It’s all part of a larger
phenomenon: American students are seeing
more career lines and market opportunities
in the international realm.

‘*Fven students who are keyed only into
television ‘bites’ or newsmagazine covers
realize they are entering a more interdepen-
dent world,’’ he explains, ‘‘and those who
are interested in public-sector as well as
private-sector careers recognize that know-
ing something about the rest of the globe
gives them a competitive edge.”’

Bidlack concurs: ‘‘Students realize the
Soviet Union is a powerful nation and that
it is now at a crossroads in its history. They
want to know more about it.

‘*The question is not so much, why is in-
terest in the Soviet Union growing now? In-

pom r
, Pe eg hase
eT ee Lega ot 6 2
a:

iT

 

Richard H. Bidlack, assistant professor of

history, demonstrates his Russian-language

typewriter.

W&L

W&L

 

stead, the question is, why hasn’t it grown
faster?’’

eorge Sparacio first became in-

trigued with the Soviet Union in

high school, when he took a course
in Russian history. His interest continued
during his years at Washington and Lee, and
while he graduated in June with a major in
journalism, he had also acquired a strong
background in Russian studies.

Sparacio has a difficult time articulating
just what it is about the Soviet Union that
fascinates him. ‘‘I’m not a_ big
‘Soviophile,’ ’’ he says. ‘I’m an American.
But there’s something about the Soviet
Union that interests me unlike anything I’ve
ever studied before.

**It’s not the politics that are grabbing
me. I really believe it’s the sense of history,
which we in America lack—the long, tragic
history and’culture. The Russian people have
been subjected to so many different wars and
influences, and they have so many unique
and radical characters in their history—Peter
the Great, Catherine the Great, Lenin,
Stalin. This makes for interesting history
lessons.”’ |

Breton Chase, Sparacio’s classmate and
the first Washington and Lee student to pur-
sue an independent major in Russian studies,
was attracted to the subject for many of the
same reasons. ‘‘] am fascinated by the Rus-
siam. people and culture,’”’ she explains.
“‘They are very different from the way we
are, but in.some ways they are similar, too.

**A lot of people are afraid of com-
munism and have many misconceptions
about it. But the more I study the Soviet
Union, the more I learn to overcome my
misconceptions. We Americans pride
ourselves on having an open mind, but when
it comes to the Soviet Union, we close up and
aren’t so freethinking after all. It has made
me consider my biases and reevaluate them.”’

Chase has firsthand experience with anti-
Soviet biases. ‘‘Last summer I told some peo-
ple I was working with that I was majoring
in Russian studies. They couldn’t believe it.
They said, ‘There are so many good things
to study. Why waste your time with Russian
studies?’ They don’t understand that Rus-

 

sian studies is a good field.”’

Sparacio, too, has encountered some
skepticism about his decision to study the
Soviet Union. His fraternity brothers have
dubbed him ‘‘the Communist’’; several peers
refer to him as ‘‘Yuri’’; and still another
friend gave him a cold-weather cap with ear
flaps and a red star in its center, for a gag
gift at Christmas.

Sparacio takes the good-natured ribbing
with a sense of humor. Nevertheless, he
believes that ‘‘people definitely still have the
red scare in them. It’s not a major fear or
anything—they just like to poke fun at the
Soviet Union.”’

Many, if not most, Americans do have
ideological leanings on one side or the other
when it comes to the Soviet Union. That
makes classes in Russian studies particular-
ly interesting, says Craig McCaughrin, who
teaches a course on the Soviet political
system.

**On the one hand, you have the students
who are a little naive, who believe all
U.S./U.S.S.R. conflicts are negotiable
‘positive-sum’ issues,’’ he explains. ‘‘On the
other, you have the students who say, ‘Bet-
ter dead than red’—who believe all our con-
flicts are ultimately non-negotiable ‘zero-
sum’ contests. It creates a real challenge for
the teacher, because you don’t want to feed
either brand of overgeneralization. It means
that class discussions are a little more volatile
than you would find in, say, the British

 

political system course.”’

Quite apart from their distaste for the
Soviet Union’s political ideas, Americans
might also regard Russian studies as a rather
dreary subject. After all, it is a story of great
tragedy, bloodshed, and deprivation. But
that, Sparacio believes, is all the more reason
to study Russian history and culture.

‘‘The depressing mentality adds to the
character of the country,’’ he says. ‘‘It’s part
of the excitement of the culture. You think
of someone like Peter the Great, who
brought about so much death in the building
of St. Petersburg. He had less regard for
human life than he did for the construction
of the city.”’

Besides, says Chase, Russian studies isn’t
all gloom and despair. ‘‘A lot of the Rus-
sians’ poetry and literature deal with pathos,
but so do ours. Ours have an equal amount
of blood and mire—especially Shakespeare.
Within their culture has been a lot of tragedy,
but they are not morose people. They fall in
love, get married, have children, play games
just like everybody else.

“I’ve heard some people say that the
Communists would never dismantle the
Berlin Wall, because if they did everyone
would come running out to the other side.
But what makes them so sure everyone
would leave? Sure, some would go, but
others would stay. They have families,
friends, and homes there, as well as a deep
commitment to their country, just as we do
to ours.’’

oday, Washington and Lee students

who are interested in Russian studies

are limited primarily to courses in
history, language, and politics. Those charg-
ed with directing the program hope that will
change before too long, and that additional
faculty appointments will be made in such
areas as art, philosophy, religion, and
€conomics (although students with an in-
terest in the latter are currently able to take
a comparative economics course that touches
On socialist economies). Whether or not
those hoped-for appointments become reali-
ty, the eventual goal is to offer students an
established baccalaureate major in the field

of Russian studies, rather than simply the in-
dependent major which Chase is pursuing.

One of these days, the faculty hope,
Washington and Lee will become something
of a center for Russian studies, which will
attract students from all over the country.
Indeed, they believe, the University is already
well on its way toward fulfilling that vision,
thanks to the curriculum already in place, a
newly established exchange program, and the
University’s strong relationships with in-
dividual Russians, both those who have re-
mained inside the Soviet Union and emigres
residing in the United States. (The develop-
ment of those relationships is aided con-

 

Greta McCaughrin (upper left) teaches Russian language courses, while Craig McCaughrin

teaches classes in Soviet politics.

W&L

daa, Ca eae a tee .

RS SAE

Cane k pidtt «th
ae - Pi sey

z

4
a
eee
ee
ps
a
a ae
f
za
&
ee

 

ae Fees
“ a Mb, yet pi gk a
- bi Pe > > ahaee po :

ed a
ed eee A

et a

Students George Sparacio and Breton Chase examine copies of Pravda in the University Library.

6 W&L

 

siderably by Washington and
Lee’s proximity to embassies
in Washington, D.C., which
helps attract guest lecturers
to the campus for brief
visits.)

When Sergei Chetveri-
kov, the Soviet deputy am-
bassador to the United
States, spoke at Washington
and Lee not long ago, one
WA&L student presented him
with a resume. He was a bit
startled. Despite the cultural
barrier, however, Wash-
ington and Lee students
seem determined to find jobs
that will make use of their
Russian studies background,
no matter what it takes.

**T am impressed that so
many of the students have
such a practical point of

 

LL ll lee

 

view,’’ says Greta McCaughrin. ‘‘One wants
to connect a medical degree with his
knowledge of Russian. Others are interested
in international affairs and international
business. They really have their careers map-
ped out.”’

Chase, for instance, hopes to find a job
in international business, while Sparacio
thinks someday he might like to become a
foreign correspondent assigned to the Soviet
Union.

There are no guarantees that those with
a background in Russian studies will
automatically land a job in their chosen field,
for continued improvement in diplomatic
and economic relations between the United
States and the Soviet Union is not
guaranteed. Still, students who enter the field
are doing their country a favor, Craig
McCaughrin believes, citing the fact that
there are currently more teachers of English
in the Soviet Union than there are students
of Russian in the United States.

**It’s important to get young scholars into
the field of Russian studies,’’ he says. ‘‘The
older generation of Soviet scholars is dying
out, and those people aren’t being replaced
at a commensurate rate. That’s a national
problem.’’

Greta McCaughrin agrees. ‘‘There’s no
way you can understand a country, its peo-
ple, its psyche, and its culture, without know-
ing its language and literature. Americans
meet mostly other Americans. We have a
myopic view of the world, and we don’t
understand other countries.

**Except for the romance languages we’ve
never assigned priority to even marketable
languages in this country until very recent-
ly. In other parts of the world, it’s an essen-
tial part of a person’s education—even at the
primary-school level.’’

For Chase and Sparacio, Russian area
studies is a promising field to enter, and one
they would recommend to others. ‘‘I think
that Soviet-American relations will continue

to improve, and I hope to participate in that
process,’’ Chase says. ‘‘I see improved
business, more and more trade and travel,
and higher degrees of tourism on both
sides—all largely as a result of perestroika
and glasnost.’’

Education will be an important part of
that phenomenon, she thinks. ‘‘One problem
is that the Soviet Union has so long been
shrouded in mystery. A lot of misconcep-
tions come from the Stalin era, and, yes,
many terrible things happened then. But
times have changed. You wouldn’t judge
Germany based on events during the Third
Reich, but on what’s happening now. As
Lenin said, foreign policy is an extension of
domestic policy, and change within will lead
to change without.

**! think our generation is a start, and it’s
our duty to instruct the next generation.
Superpower relations must take a front seat,
because we have to work with the Soviet
Union on all sorts of international issues. We
certainly can’t just ignore each other.’’

Besides, says Sparacio, Russian studies
can even be fun. ‘‘The Soviet Union is less
developed than the U.S. and is filled with in-
ternal turmoil. Any journalist who goes there
and doesn’t like it, journalistically speaking,
isn’t a journalist. Things are changing every
day, and, as Professor [Craig] McCaughrin
says, there’s no such thing anymore as a
Soviet expert.

**I’m not the kind of person who says,
‘Soviet Union or bust.’ And I don’t think I
would want to live there at 45. No way. But
at 22 or 23, that just might be what I want.
That’s adventure.”’

W&L 7

Classroom Ambassad

by Brian D. Shaw

  

 

Last year, Washington and Lee joined with 25 other
liberal arts institutions across the United States in a
unique and historic exchange program with the Soviet
Union.

Under the auspices of the American Consortium for
East-West Cultural and Academic Exchange, which is
based at Middlebury College, 56 Soviet undergraduates
came to this country last August for a year of study. Their
arrival marks the first time Soviet undergraduates have
been permitted to study in the United States without of-
ficials in residence with them. Next year, the program will
be expanded to enable American undergrad-
uates—including one from Washington and Lee—to
travel to the Soviet Union.

Three of the Soviet students—Vasily Kharik, Nona
Mchedlishvili, and Vladimir Kulyukin—were assigned to spend the
1988-89 academic year at Washington and Lee. Following a three-week
orientation at Middlebury, where they received intense language and com-
puter training (and got a dose of American culture, too, by viewing such
films as Annie Hall and Citizen Kane), the Soviet students were met by
Richard H. Bidlack, who teaches Russian history at W&L. He accom-
panied them to Lexington, where they stayed with host families for a
brief period before moving into Gaines Hall.

Because of the historic nature of the exchange, the students aroused
a good bit of curiosity and interest when they arrived. They were
photographed and interviewed and asked to speak to interested groups
in the area. Yet what was so extraordinary about these students was that
they lived such ordinary lives. They wrote term papers, took exams, par-
ticipated in social and extracurricular activities, and traveled around the
country during school vacations. Thanks to Mikhail Gorbachev’s policy
of glasnost, they were genuinely able to experience American college life.

Months after their arrival in Lexington, as the days grew warmer
and the dogwood blossomed on the W&L campus, the three Soviets
prepared to return to their homeland. Before their departure, they took
a few moments to reflect on their experiences at Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

8 W&L a

 

 

 

 

 

From left,

Kharik.

 

(Illustration used courtesy of
American Collegiate Consor-
tium, Middlebury College)

Soviet exchange
students Nona Mchedlishvili,
Vladimir Kulyukin, and Vasily

 

t 24, with two years of obligatory
A ei in the Soviet Army behind
him, Vasily Kharik is older than the
majority of Washington and Lee
undergraduates. He also knows more about
mathematical physics than most, having
completed three years of a five-year program
in the subject at Moscow State University.
(Upon completion of the program, he will
receive the equivalent of a master’s degree.)
It didn’t take long for Kharik—and
members of the W&L faculty—to figure out
that he had advanced beyond the Universi-
ty’s regular course offerings in mathematical
physics. So he decided to make up his own
classes. Working with H. Thomas Williams,
associate dean of the College and professor
of physics, Kharik designed a curriculum that
included individual tutorials with Williams
and members of the mathematics depart-
ment. The tutorials dealt with such abstruse
topics as functional analysis, mathematical
theory of defraction, and tensor analysis.
This individual style of learning suited
Kharik perfectly. ‘‘I found one-on-one to be
much better. We have conversations and I
get all the attention. But,’’ he confesses with
a laugh, ‘‘you must be prepared. There is no
One else to answer questions.”’
A conscientious student by his own ad-
mission, Kharik has spent many of his hours
Outside the classroom writing mathematics

papers for scholarly journals. Four papers
have been submitted for publication, and one
has already been accepted by The Journal of
Mathematical Physics. That’s quite an
honor, Williams says; scholarly journals
don’t often accept papers written by
undergraduates.

In addition to the coursework in
mathematics and physics, Kharik has taken
classes at W&L in expository writing, com-
puter science, and Soviet politics. The latter
he found particularly beneficial, he says: ‘‘It
was helpful for me to look at my country
from a different point of view.”’

Throughout the year, Kharik provided
‘*a different point of view’’ about his own
country by speaking to classes at W&L, the
Virginia Military Institute, and Hollins Col-
lege. He was pleased to discover that his
listeners ‘‘ask really clever questions. Not
things like how many potatoes are in the
U.S.S.R. They are interested and respect-
ful.’’

In his spare time, Kharik has taken in ‘‘a
lot of social life at W&L,’’ including lectures,
films, and concerts. He did attend one frater-
nity party (‘‘I did not like just drinking and
talking’’) and actually went trick-or-treating
on Halloween. During school breaks, he
visited Washington, D.C., Charlottesville,
New York, Philadelphia, and Atlantic City
(where he ‘‘lost $2, of course’’).

Yet after all his travels, Kharik con-
sistently gives Lexington high marks. ‘‘The
green and the mountains’’ remind him of his
homeland of Chernovtzi, in the south
Ukraine, and Washington and Lee’s small
atmosphere provides a nice change from
Moscow State, which comprises 32,000
students.

**I like this school very much,’’ he says.
“It is so intimate and friendly. I can get in
touch with my professors, and I like this
quiet city.’’

In fact, Kharik says, ‘‘I have asked Pro-
fessor Williams to hold a place for me on the
faculty.’’ Perhaps one day he’ll be back.

hen Nona Mchedlishvili learned
about the East-West Cultural
and Academic Exchange Pro-

gram, she applied purely on a whim. Nine
other journalism students from Georgia
province’s Tblisi State University applied
too, and Mchedlishvili didn’t think she had
a chance of being accepted.

‘**But when I found out it was possible,
I got really scared, because one year is such
a long time,”’ she recalls. ‘‘Then I thought
it was stupid being scared, because nobody
thought it would happen.”’

Imagine Mchedlishvili’s surprise, then,
when she learned that she had indeed been

W&L 9

 

 

ae Reg

 

Vasily Kharik studies mathematical problems with H. Thomas Williams, professor of physics and associate dean of the

College (of arts and sciences).

 

accepted into the program, and that she had
a mere three days to get ready before she was
due in Moscow. A quick visit to her grand-
parents’ home in the Georgian countryside
preceded some hurried packing, and
Mchedlishvili was on her way to the Soviet
capital and then the United States.

Leaving wasn’t easy, Mchedlishvili
remembers, particularly on such short notice.
**It was very difficult for my mother,’’ she
says. ‘‘My father did not say anything, but
my mother didn’t want me to go. In Georgia
families are very close, and it is traditional
for children to live with their families until
they marry. I am 22 years old, but even when
I’m 40 or 45 my mother will still think I am
a child.’’

Mchedlishvili faced more problems once
she arrived in the United States. Although
she had taken two years of English, she could
barely read the language, and since all the
cultural orientation sessions at Middlebury
were in English, she had some trouble
understanding what was going on around
her.

**l was homesick,’’ she admits. ‘‘I wanted
to be with the Georgians and have some fun.
It was a real hard time for me.”’

The culture shock continued once
Mchedlishvili got to Lexington. She had
brought two suitcases with her for the entire
year; her roommates in Gaines Hall ‘‘need-

10 W&L

ed two cars to bring things in.’’ But once they

were moved in, these same roommates
proved to be invaluable. They helped
Mchedlishvili practice her English, and for
the first two weeks of school, they accom-
panied her nearly everywhere and acted as
her translators.

At Washington and Lee Mchedlishvili
signed up for classes in English, music, and
journalism, but it is the latter that interests
her the most.

‘It was surprising to me that the em-
phasis is on how the government works,”’ she
says of Journalism 101. ‘‘I was lost for a
while, wondering, Am I taking journalism
or politics? At home we studied more struc-
tural things, like how to write and finding
the important points. Journalism students
here feel more like journalists. Sometimes it
seems that American journalists are more im-
portant than the president. It seems that
nothing can stop American journalists. | am
not a crusading journalist. I just like to
write.’’

Mchedlishvili has become a careful
observer of American journalism during her
time in the United States. During the earth-
quake in Soviet Armenia and the recent stu-
dent unrest in her hometown of Tblisi, she
followed the U.S. news accounts very close-
ly and anxiously. She also monitored the
broadcasts of Soviet television news that are

received by the University Library.

‘‘Those were times of uneasiness for
me,’’ she says. ‘‘I read the newspapers and
watched television, but I did not really get
a feel for what was happening. I called my
mother, who gave me some positive infor-
mation, but she did not want me to worry.
I expect things to be different when I
return.’’

Like the other Soviet students,
Mchedlishvili took advantage of W&L vaca-
tions to travel throughout the United States.
One of her favorite spots was New York.

**T love New York,”’ she says. ‘‘I will miss
it forever. I can see cities like Washington,
D.C., in other countries, but there is nothing
like New York City. The tallest buildings, the
people sleeping in the street, the rich people,
Broadway. It was fantastic.”’

Another trip provided a homecoming of
sorts, when Mchedlishvili made a visit to
Atlanta. ‘‘My great dream was to see the
other Georgia,’’ she explains. ‘‘Georgia in
the Soviet Union is mountains. I had the feel-
ing of home [in Atlanta], even though they
don’t look alike.’’

Still, the greatest thrill Mchedlishvili ex-
perienced all year was back in Lexington,
during the Fancy Dress Bail. ‘‘Fancy Dress
was the best experience I have had,’’ she
says. ‘‘It was the biggest thing in my life. At
home we like to dress up, but we never wear

 

 

Vladimir Kulyukin likes the flexibili-
ty offered by American education.

 

long dresses. The music, the big hall dark
with the lights. It was very mystical.’’

ladimir Kulyukin, a fiercely indepen-

dent 23-year-old student from the

Moscow Institute of Foreign
Language, arrived in Lexington last August
exasperated with the long orientation session
at Middlebury and ready to get on with his
adventure in the United States. At
Washington and Lee, he found what he
wanted.

‘*T really liked Lexington,”’’ he says. ‘‘It
appealed to me from the beginning. I was
tired of the orientation and people just left
me alone here. It was up to me what I could
do.’’

Kulyukin began by selecting a course
schedule that would make most American
Students tremble. Because he wants to
become a linguist, he signed up for classes
in Latin, Japanese, creative writing, and
British literature. He was pleased with the
freedom of choice offered him.

‘A very good thing about American
education is the flexibility,’’ he says. ‘‘The
students can choose their own courses and
Switch areas of interest. In the U.S.S.R. we
pick a field and stick with it. You can study
a few subjects outside your area, but you are
on your own. It is a serious drawback in our
system.”’

When it comes to examina-
tions, though, Kulyukin will
take the Soviet system over the
American one any day (though
American students might wonder why).
‘*Here [at Washington and Lee] you are
given a list of questions that you must answer
in a certain period of time,’’ he explains. ‘‘At
home, you have to talk to an examiner. You
are given one or two hours to study the ques-
tions, then you must go in and defend your
position. The interviewer tries to defeat you.
I like that.’’

Despite the differences between the two
countries’ educational systems, however,
Kulyukin dismisses the Soviet stereotype that
American students are not serious about their
studies. ‘‘Some students [at W&L] could be
considered to be more frivolous than
others,’’ he concedes, ‘‘but I know plenty of
guys that work really hard.’’

During his time at Washington and Lee,
Kulyukin found that he had to combat many
stereotypes—stereotypes held by Americans
about the Soviet Union.

**The Soviet image of the United States
is more realistic than the American view of
the U.S.S.R.,’’ he asserts. ‘‘I confront this
dilemma all the time. Americans equate
socialism with bureaucracy. That is a big
misconception. It is a bone of ignorance.
Americans think of the Soviet Union as

 

 

 

gloomy weather and no one smiles. People
compare Jesus Christ and Karl Marx and
build walls of stereotypes. Those are
dangerous generalizations.’”’

An exchange program like the East-West
Consortium is invaluable in helping to break
down such stereotypes, Kulyukin believes.
He thinks, though, that younger Soviet
students would be better served by the pro-
gram than older students like himself and
Kharik, who have been ‘‘professionalized.’’

**Schools like W&L correspond to the
first and second years at schools in the
U.S.S.R. They are more fun than educa-
tion,’’ he explains. ‘‘I will talk seriously with
the ministry when I return about sending
younger students to the United States.’’

Still, Kulyukin is not sorry he was chosen
to participate in the exchange. ‘‘My room-
mate [Garrick Slate, the W&L sophomore
who will spend next year in the Soviet Union]
and I were talking the other day about how
we could keep the exchange program going.
We agreed that we both must win the Nobel
Prize and donate the money to the exchange
program.

**Now all we have to do is win the prize.”’

W&L ili

 

 

The
ustice

eturns

or three weeks in the early spring, students and facul-

ty in Washington and Lee’s School of Law had an op-

portunity to learn about the American legal system
from a real expert—retired Supreme Court Justice Lewis F.
Powell, ’29, ’31L.

Powell was in residence at the law school from late March
until the middle of April. During his visit, he taught courses
in constitutional law and related areas; met with faculty
members from both the law school and undergraduate divi-
sions; and held regular luncheon meetings with members of
numerous student organizations in the law school. Near the
end of his visit, he also delivered a public address to members
of the campus community.

‘It was a great privilege for us to have our most
distinguished alumnus with us for this three-week period,”’
said Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the School of Law. ‘‘This

 

visit contributed greatly to the quality of the law school ex-
perience at Washington and Lee.”’

Powell spent much of his time with the constitutional law
classes ordinarily taught by Ann M. Massie, assistant professor
of law. ‘‘The justice’s visit was a tremendous treat and op-
portunity for everyone at the law school, students and facul-
ty alike,’’ Massie said. ‘‘He was extremely charming and
responsive to questions. We enjoyed the insights he provided
us about the workings of the court, the effort that went into
writing opinions, and the effect that his prior background and
experience had on his decisions.

‘*It was tremendously beneficial for all of us, besides be-
ing a whole lot of fun.”’

Mary Fran Bradley, a second-year law student who spoke
with Powell on several occasions during the course of his visit,
agreed with Massie’s assessment. ‘‘Justice Powell had such

 

12

W&L

 

 

 

 

From left, Justice Powell studies in his office; participates in a
class discussion with Steven H. Hobbs, associate professor of
law; and speaks with a student.

an impact on sO many major decisions of the Court that it
was really wonderful to have him at our disposal to talk to
us and answer our questions,’’ Bradley said. ‘‘He was really
personable and willing to help us learn and understand im-
portant decisions.

**It was very exciting to have someone in our midst who
has influenced the court so much. He’s a superstar to us.”’

Powell, too, seemed to enjoy the experience. ‘‘It’s been
a joy to be on the campus,”’ he said. ‘‘It brings back many
memories. I love this school. And we’ve never been received
more hospitably than we have here by faculty members from
the law school and friends of the college.

“*I think the law school here is a quality law school,’’ he
continued. ‘‘I’ve worked with teachers here and I’ve been very
impressed by their ability. The students, too, are of high quali-
ty. I’ve enjoyed being back.’’

 

 

 

W&L

13

 

ye,
Satanic Coy

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
   

doubtedly come to be one of the most famous Siaiel of a Scare
famous not because of its content, but because of the unpr d uproar
it has provoked. The book was The Satanic Verses, a satiric i el about
the Islamic faith, which infuriated individuals throughout.the Muslim
world. That anger took on new dimensions when Iran’s Ayatolli ho-
meini offered a million-dollar bounty to anyone who w uld kill the author. -
Threats were also made against those responsible pret Re
distributing, and selling the book. - =

The Western world reacted with outrage, and many gov ernments i:
statements of protest. The Satanic Verses became a rur aw -t est-selle:
although a number of bookstores took seriously the A ya ah’s:
and removed the book from its shelves, or atleast-plac ae
prominent location. Meanwhile, throughout the United § |
artists, and other defenders of the First Amendment Backed ae yatollah,
chastised booksellers who had given in to his threats, and wondered what
in the world had made the Muslims so angry.

Although Washington and Lee has not been seriously affected by the
Rushdie controversy (the Washington and Lee bookstore has sold about
50 copies of the book, without fear), the unfolding drama does raise com-
plex and important issues that have particular bearing on members of a
university community—issues relating to freedom of speech, academic
freedom, and tolerance of diversity in a multicultural world. These ques-
tions have not escaped Washington and Lee. The following are four essays
written by members of the W&L faculty in response to the entire Salman
Rushdie affair.

  
  
 
   
 

So S58 3s

 

 

 

 

O.W. Riegel
Professor of Journalism, Emeritus

depressing and sordid Salman
Rushdie affair reminds us of the blessing of
our freedom from censorship and that the
protection of freedom of expression means
little unless it protects expression that to
some people, or to most people, is
outrageous, obnoxious, and even vile.

Rushdie is charged with blasphemy, a
word with an old-fashioned, alien sound in
modern times when, in Western countries,
the slander of religion (blasphemy) has been
replaced by the slander of the national state
(sedition) as the leading provoker of outrage
and chief target of persecution.

The Rushdie case is of sinister importance
not because his few satiric, fictional
references to Muhammad and his wives are
offenses under Western law, or even worth
the trouble of reading, but because Kho-
meini, by placing a bounty on Rushdie’s
head and threatening the lives of publishers,
booksellers, and Rushdie’s defenders, has
added another weapon to the arsenal of in-
ternational terror. Khomeini’s political
motives are transparent, to position himself
as the leading defender of Islam in the
Muslim world, and to challenge the power
of his enemies in the West, foremost among
them the Great Satan, the United States.
Thus the assassination of writers has been
added to bombing, hijacking, hostage-
taking, and poison-gas factories in the ser-
vice of nations to challenge and intimidate
their enemies.

Dismaying was the initial reaction to
Khomeini’s threat, the banning of The
Satanic Verses by several countries, panic at
Viking, and the disappearance of the book
at Walden and Dalton bookstores. It is not
for me to pass judgment on people in fear
of their lives but I am happy that they have

recanted and will probably make a great deal
of money disproportionate to the book’s
merit, an ironic reward for redemption. I
find craven and shameful, however, the
reluctance of American writers (with some
exceptions, Susan Sontag and William
Styron among them) to speak out publicly,
forcefully, and quickly, in Rushdie’s defense.

A more insidious threat to free expres-
sion than Khomeini’s license to Muslims to
kill writers and booksellers is self-censorship,
or selectivity in the permissible giving of of-
fense. One should not offend another’s
religion, it is said, and there are voices that
argue that we especially should not offend
Islam because there are a billion fanatical,
self-righteous Muslims, as if numbers made
a difference.

Freedom is indivisible. One is either for
freedom of expression, all of it, or against
it. That freedom is in continuous danger of
erosion. Before Rushdie there was the furor
over The Last Temptation of Christ, and
before that Jerry Falwell tried to punish a
publisher through a civil action for a fic-
tional, satiric portrayal of a man of religion
reminiscent of Rushdie’s satiric and fictional
portrayal of the Prophet. At all times, of-
ficials of our government suppress expres-
sion, not because such expression would be
a danger to national security, as they claim,
but because it would be embarrassing and
therefore obnoxious.

Salman Rushdie has shown us that if we
wish to continue to enjoy the blessing of
freedom from censorship, our response to in-
timidation must be’ spontaneous,
courageous, quick, and as unanimous as is
possible in our pluralistic culture. We should
be grateful to him for that.

W&L 15

 

concept of ‘‘satanic verses’’ derives
from Muslim tradition itself. Muhammad is
said to have proclaimed a revelation allow-
ing the people of Mecca to convert to Islam
while continuing to worship three Meccan
goddesses, now to become intermediaries to
Allah. When, however, he received a new
revelation forbidding such worship, Muham-
mad realized that the earlier verses were
spoken by Satan.

This story is the central metaphor of The
Satanic Verses. It presents a world of
**culture shock,’’ in which every affirmation
has its troubling negation, every holy act its
profane reaction, and all truth is provisional.
Muhammad’s holy relationship with his 12
wives provokes, in the novel, the decision by
12 prostitutes to adopt the names of those
wives in order to increase business—but they
are then transformed by this pretense into
truly pious wives of the poet, Baal, the pro-
fane counterpart of Muhammad.

The novel does not deny the possibility
of God or the human genius of Muhammad
and the Quran, but it does assert the moral
and metaphysical ambiguity of all that we
human beings apprehend of the divine. What
we think has come from God may have come
from our own desires, like Muhammad’s to
convert the Meccans. All claims to truth and
authority are thus cast under the suspicion
of harboring a satanic urge to control and
suppress ‘‘in the name of God.’’ Rushdie
says in an interview that the novel shows how
‘religion. . .can become a force for evil’’—
and he was thinking of ‘‘the Khomeini
revolution.’’ ‘‘Writers and whores. I see no
difference here,’’ says the Muhammad of the
novel as he sends the blaspheming poet off
to his execution.

The novel intrigues while it disquiets. It
challenges everyone’s beliefs and defenses,
secular and sacred alike. But many Muslims
see and feel its specific challenge to their own
‘*verses’’—to the absolute truth of the
Quran, the reliability of Muhammad as a
prophet, and the sanctity of Muhammad’s
family life. Even the simplest textbooks on
Islam inform us that one of the central pillars
of Islamic belief is the purity and accuracy
of the Quran, implying the consequent
trustworthiness of the Prophet. On Muham-
mad’s birthday (Maulid) each year, Muslims
celebrate him as ‘‘the man of sound
reason. ..the intercessor for all
creatures. . .pure and yet purified. . .ad-
monisher of the people of the earth’’ (Dalal
al-Khairat).

Muslims thus perceive the present con-
flict over the novel as one between holy faith
and a perverse hostility, in the guise of fic-

Richard G. Marks
Associate Professor of Religion

tion, which degrades that faith. They feel
personally humiliated and abused, especial-
ly when they think of Western readers smirk-
ing over the novel’s skeptical rendition of
Muhammad and the Quran and lauding the
author for his inspiration. And worse, they
see Western writers and politicians self-
righteously vaunting their precious freedom
of speech to justify what Muslims perceive
as callous attacks on Islam itself.

The American public was surprised by
this reaction to the book. We are a people
generally illiterate about our own religion—
how much the more so about the religious
and cultural traditions of people we perceive
as foreigners (although more than five
million Muslims live in the United States to-
day, soon to surpass the number of Jews).
Living in a secular world, we fail to under-
stand people for whom ritual and revelation
are daily realities.

Muslims will soon constitute 25 percent
of the world’s population, but we know lit-
tle about them. Headlines bombard us with
Mid-East bombings. But what have we learn-
ed of Muslim points of view, of the long,
rich, humane civilization of the Islamic
world—its art, poetry, daily life, ethics,
mystic saints, grand philosophical systems
that are just beginning to be studied in
Western universities?

Very few students graduating from
Washington and Lee learn anything signifi-
cant about the ways Muslims think and live.

 

 

The rich curriculum touted by our admis-
sions brochures offers a single course
devoted fully to Islamic civilization, a com-
parative religion course assigning four weeks
to Islam, and only oblique references to
Islamic history in any other class.

As citizens of the one diverse world we
all live in, as bearers of traditions of empathy
for ‘‘the stranger in the land’’ (Lev. 19:34),
we have a high obligation to understand the
Muslim response to The Satanic Verses.
Should the book then be banned, as some
Jewish and Christian religious leaders have
recommended?

I feel offended by racist, anti-Semitic,
and sexually exploitative writings—all al-
lowed by free speech. Just as those writings,
in harming some, harm and endanger all of
us, so do writings that insult and shame peo-
ple of specific religious groups. I suppose,
however, that our secular civil faith holds
that free speech, allowing these abusive
writings, ultimately protects more than it
destroys, and especially so for minority
groups like Jews and Muslims.

So without banning the book, we must
nevertheless not lose sight of that stubborn
tension between free speech and respect (and
compassion) for others in a multicultural
world. Rushdie’s perspective might reveal
our secular faith becoming our own “‘satanic
verse,’’ arousing in us the same oppressive
self-righteousness we see in those others we
call ‘‘religious fanatics.’’

 

   

4h
thot. Uf Mf by
¥,
Sf A
Yio

 

William Buchanan, ’41
Professor of Politics

 

All politics is local politics, according to
Tip O’Neill, and the Ayatollah Khomeini’s
**death sentence’’ on Salman Rushdie and his
abettors was largely local politics. It was
locally successful, apparently, for the
weakening party of the fundamentalist
mullahs has since tightened its hold on the
government of Iran. The Ayatollah’s original
offer of $1 million to those who would carry
out the execution has since been augmented
by his followers to some $5 million.

The act was ‘‘local,’’ too, in the implica-
tion that policies designed to please an in-
ternal constituency may be counterproduc-
tive in the larger sphere. Khomeini’s flagrant
violation of diplomatic precepts not only
ruptured relations with essential trading part-
ners, it has undoubtedly prejudiced police
and secret services in the West against Shiite
Muslims, not to mention casting suspicion
on other Near Easterners who are entirely in-
nocent of intent to murder book dealers.

As for Rushdie’s novel, I am not temp-
ted. However boring I might find passages
blaspheming my own religion, I cannot im-
agine the enormity of boredom inspired by
those blaspheming someone else’s.
Blasphemy is a sin that disappeared so many
years ago that it’s hard to imagine its
disinterment, even by such a throwback to
the Middle Ages as the Ayatollah. I can see
no threat to academic freedom in America,
for that kind of threat comes not from out-
siders but from government Officials,

 

establishment figures, controlling boards,
and local communities. In Iran, of course,
there is no such freedom to be threatened.

There is a threat to someone, somewhere,
unsuspecting. It arises in the modern
technology combining air transportation,
assault rifles, and high explosives. These
have made us all vulnerable to random
violence—a threat amplified by the Iranian
addition of oil profits and medieval theology.
It’s hard to say what can be done about it.
I recall the 1950s when Iran was governed
by another improbable old man, Mohamm-
ed Mossadeq, who went about in pajamas,
wept copiously, and nationalized the oil in-
dustry. He was overthrown by a handsome
young prince, an event arranged, as we learn-
ed much later, by the CIA, much to the
benefit of American oil companies. The
Shah’s policies led many Iranians to believe
that the United States is ‘‘the Great
Satan’’—another incomprehensible
medievalism.

It’s obvious that I do not understand
Iran’s culture, and in light of events, I
wonder how many of our policymakers have
understood it. I would not suggest that we
go back to our 1930s commitment to George
Washington’s avoidance of ‘‘entangling
alliances,’’ but we might lessen the threat of
random murders by fundamentalist lunatics
if we looked harder for opportunities to butt
out of other nations’ business. We might
have started with Iran.

W&L 17

Acquiring a copy of Salman Rushdie’s
The Satanic Verses for the University Library
at Washington and Lee was a fairly routine
affair. When the furor over the book
erupted, we checked to see if we had ordered
it. We had—on Feb. 1, 1989—based on a
review the acquisitions librarian had read in
the previous Sunday’s Washington Post. We
already had other Rushdie works in the
collection.

The week the controversy began, I at-
tended a library meeting in Washington,
D.C. During a break from the regular
business of the meeting, eight college library
directors from around the country compared
notes on who had the book and which ven-
dor was likely to supply it. At the time, only
one of those present actually had the volume
in his library. Our copy came in a week or
so later and was promptly checked out. As
I write this essay, the library’s copy is sitting
on our new book shelf, having been check-
ed out one more time. There is no waiting
list for it.

Librarians take freedom to read very
seriously. An editorial in one of our profes-
sional journals, Library Journal, noted that
‘when the Rushdie book was off the shelves
or under the counter at major bookstores,
it was freely available at public
libraries. . . .We couldn’t find one that stop-
ped circulating The Satanic Verses, and most
ordered more copies to meet the new de-
mand.”’

The American Library Association join-
ed the Association of American Publishers
and the American Booksellers Association in
a full-page ad in the New York Times on
Feb. 22, the official publication date of the
book. The text read, in part: ‘‘Free people
write books, free people publish books, free
people sell books, free people buy books,
free people read books.’’ It went on to say
that Rushdie’s work would be available to
readers at bookstores and libraries
throughout the country.

Academic librarians rarely have to face
book censorship problems. Our collection
responsibility is to acquire materials that sup-
port the academic program of our institution
and, in doing that, to ensure that we provide
resources on all sides of an issue. It’s our mis-
sion to provide access to opinions of every
kind on every topic: religious, philosophical,
literary, scientific, political.

School and public librarians can be con-
fronted by an outraged public demanding to
have a book removed from the shelves
because of objectionable language, religious
views, political persuasion, or sexual
behavior. These incidents happen with
enough frequency that the American Library

18 W&L

 

 

THE CENTER FOR THE BOOK
IN THE LIBRARY OF CONCRESS

 

—

men waned Lee
En oe
Lote

CA \ ¥ a
Barbara J. Brown

University Librarian

saa

%

 

Association supports an Office of Intellec-
tual Freedom to provide legal and other
forms of assistance to embattled librarians.
An academic librarian is much more likely
to face a faculty member angry about a title
not being purchased rather than one purchas-
ed that supports an unpopular point of view.
Sometimes the academic ivory tower does of-
fer useful protection.

The colleagues with whom I have talked
were unanimous in their outrage about the
behavior of booksellers who bowed to
threats and withdrew the book from the
shelves—as it turned out, only temporarily.
When pressed, however, most agreed that
putting human life in jeopardy cast a hor-
rific light on the censorship issue, and they
were uncertain of what their own responses
would have been had they been placed in that
situation. In the ivory tower, we could view
the incident as a freedom-to-read issue, mak-
ing sure that the book was available for cir-
culation, but we didn’t have to contemplate
any danger to our clientele.

The Rushdie affair does remind us in a
most forceful way about our responsibility
to represent unpopular points of view in the
library collections we build. It would be in-
teresting to know how many librarians are
now reevaluating their collections of
materials that support the study of Islamic
culture and religion. How many of us readi-
ly understood why the Muslim people reacted
so violently to this work of fiction?

 
    
 
  
       
   
 
  
  

 

. Beet tes
ee eee Rohe FS ae 2
RE Te LN Cael

—_
Pe See aie ee OS a
Sie it 8) 4 eee
ss SE A RET EES det

 

The Library Bill of Rights, adopted by
the American Library Association in 1948,
states specifically that ‘‘in no case should
library materials be excluded because of the
race or nationality or the social, political, or
religious views of the authors’’; that ‘‘no
library materials should be proscribed or
removed from libraries because of partisan
or doctrinal disapproval’’; and that
**libraries should cooperate with all persons
and groups concerned with resisting abridg-
ment of free expression and free access to
ideas.”’

The Freedom to Read statement,
prepared by a group of librarians and
publishers in 1953 and subsequently endorsed
by the American Librarian Association and
other national groups, closes with these stir-
ring words: ‘‘We here stake out a lofty claim
for the value of books. . . .We believe that
what people read is deeply important; that
ideas can be dangerous; but that the suppres-
sion of ideas is fatal to a democratic socie-
ty.” Those words were written at a time
when the threat of a ‘‘Communist con-
spiracy’’ was being used to purge libraries
of objectionable or controversial books.

This librarian, and, I suspect, others like
me, had not read these two statements of
principle in recent memory. It was not a bad
thing to dust them off and to be reminded
that the freedom to read, which we may take
for granted in this country, can be threaten-
ed when you least expect it.

 

 

 

 

The Legacy
of the Beechenbrooks

by Mike Stachura, ’86

Thirty-five years ago next month, Washington
and Lee University’s Board of Trustees made one
of the most difficult and controversial decisions
in the institution’s history. It voted to discontinue
subsidized athletics.

The decision angered many alumni and
students, who had enjoyed seeing Washington and
Lee’s teams attract national prominence in the ‘‘big
time.’’ Yet, 35 years later, there can be little doubt
that the Board made the right move. Today, the
University reveres the notion of the ‘‘scholar-
athlete,’’ and not the other way around: the poet
who can also hit a mean serve; the premed who
manages to fit soccer practice in between
laboratory assignments.

At a time when many of the nation’s Division
I schools are wrestling with such problems as
recruiting violations, coaching scandals, and foot-
ball players who can’t read, Washington and Lee
is proud to say it keeps athletics in the proper
perspective—as an important complement, rather
than impediment, to education’s most important
mission, the nurturing of the mind.

On the 35th anniversary of the historic 1954
decision, the A/umni Magazine has asked Mike
Stachura, ’86, the University’s sports information
director, to write a series of articles examining the
role athletics has played and continues to play in
the institutional life of Washington and Lee. What
follows is the first of those articles, a historical
perspective.

Leigh Williams, ’32, was a member of Washington and Lee football,
baseball, basketball, and track teams.

W&L 19

 

 

 

One of Washington and Lee’s crews prepares for the 1901 regatta, a highlight of the academic year (Michael Miley Collection/W&L).

Long before the words to the ““‘W&L
Swing’’ were penned; before the advent (and
subsequent demise) of pajama parades and
Homecoming displays and pep rallies; even
before the longest concrete non-suspension
footbridge in the world joined the
Washington and Lee campus and the vacant
fields that lay across Woods Creek—there
were the Beechenbrooks and the Shoo Flies.

In December 1866, a group of
Washington College students who called
themselves the Beechenbrooks walked across
the campus to challenge the Cadet Club of
Virginia Military Institute in a game of
baseball. According to the late W&L
historian Ollinger Crenshaw in his book
General Lee’s College, this matchup was one
of the first intercollegiate competitions at
W&L. Five months later, the teams met
again on the parade ground at VMI, this time
in a doubleheader. The games were split,
W&L’s side winning 66-22 and VMI’s men
taking a 32-13 win.

The game caught on, and in 1871 the
**Shoo Fly’’ team of Washington College
took on the ‘‘Monticello’’ squad from
Charlottesville. ‘‘If the events did not pro-
vide the best of baseball,’’ Crenshaw writes,
**they were notable social successes.’’ (The
more things change... . )

Those early contests sprang from the
students’ desire to compete simply for the
fun of it, to relieve the tedium of academic
life. Crenshaw writes of the formation of an

20 W&L

Athletic Association in 1872 by ‘‘70 youths
‘who had not had their noses a foot from a
book’ in a month.’’ Within the next 30 years,
the University responded to student interest
by building a gymnasium and an athletic
field and establishing a physical education
department.

One notable achievement during these
early years was the invention of the
curveball, much to the dismay of the students
at that other university across the mountain.
In May of 1878, a wily W&L student by the
grand name of George Augustus Sykes
unleashed his secret weapon, a swerving toss
that propelled W&L to a 12-0 win in Char-
lottesville. Sykes struck out 16 straight
Virginia men, who perhaps took some solace
in the analysis of the Virginia University
Magazine, which saw fit to call Sykes’ inven-
tion ‘‘as scurvy a trick as has ever been ex-
hibited in the annals of base ball from its
earliest foundation.’’ That scurvy trick has
since been documented as the first curveball
thrown in an intercollegiate baseball game.

Just as baseball was gathering populari-
ty at Washington and Lee, so, too, were
other sports. A demand for running and
jumping events (track and field) was behind
the formation of the Athletic Association in
1872. And the school’s first sports spec-
tacular was the fabulous rowing regatta,
which emerged during the presidency of
General Lee, himself an avid spectator of the
annual race. In 1869, the Trustees ap-

propriated $400 for the college boat club,
resulting in a tremendous in-house rivalry
between W&L’s two clubs, the Harry Lee
and the Albert Sidney.

The annual contest, which occurred at
commencement each year, held the entire
community enthralled. As Crenshaw writes,
**So intense did club loyalties become in the
’90s that, according to the Collegian,
‘mother . . . separated from daughter, hus-
band from wife, student from sweetheart
(perhaps)... .’ Flags and streamers of red
(the Harry Lee color) and blue (Albert
Sidney) floated from the housetops, were
suspended across the streets of Lexington,
and waved everywhere.”’ The regatta remain-
ed an important part of the Washington and
Lee athletic and social atmosphere well into
the 20th century.

Yet these events were predominantly in-
tramural in nature. Before long a new sport-
ing event entered the scene that pitted
Washington and Lee teams against those of
other schools and excited the emotions of
students and faculty to an unprecedented
pitch.

The new phenomenon was football.

The early game was no different at W&L
than it was anywhere else. Countless players
swarmed either side of the field at the same
time, and chaos, rather than competition,
ruled more often than not. The Calyx of 1895

(continued on page 37)

the

 

pring Gazette

ae ‘

ee
rs noe

 

 

W&L 21

 

Cadaver makes gift to Fraternity Renaissance;
four fraternities approved for renovations

Washington and Lee has received its first
major gift in support of its planned Frater-
nity Renaissance Program.

The Cadaver Society, a secret organiza-
tion of Washington and Lee alumni, has
given the University $100,000 for the frater-
nity project.

‘‘The gift from Cadaver is the first
substantial investment we have received for
the Fraternity Renaissance Program,”’ said
Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, vice president for
University relations. ‘‘Since a portion of the
funding for the program will come from
gifts, we are grateful to Cadaver for its
generous and timely contribution.”’

The $10 million Fraternity Renaissance
Program will be financed through Universi-
ty funds, with roughly half of the Universi-
ty’s advance to be replaced by gifts and the
other half to be replaced by rentals and a
Greek system fee.

Cadaver is a secret society of Washington
and Lee alumni founded in 1957 as a social
club. Since that time the organization has
provided financial support to W&L in a
number of areas, including the University
Library.

Meanwhile, four Washington and Lee
fraternities have been approved for participa-
tion in the renaissance program.

The executive committee of the Frater-
nity Renovation Steering Committee met in
April to review the applications of Pi Kap-
pa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta Theta
Pi, and Sigma Nu. The committee has
recommended to President John D. Wilson
that the four fraternities proceed with plans
to renovate their houses. The application of
a fifth fraternity, Phi Kappa Sigma, was
returned with a request for more
information.

Work should begin on the first house
during the spring of 1990, according to Leroy
C. (Buddy) Atkins, 68, associate dean of
students for Greek affairs and a member of
the steering committee.

‘**This important step of acceptance into
the program will make the renaissance a
reality to the students from now on, as
chapter members become involved in the
physical planning process for each house,’’
Atkins said. ‘‘They will see some progress
which is measurable.”’

Except for the physical condition of the
houses, all four fraternities are in full com-
pliance with the University’s ‘‘Standards for
Fraternities,’’ the foundation of the
renaissance program which was adopted by

22 W&L

WA&L in 1987. The renovation program will
enable the fraternities to meet the standards’
physical requirements.

The ‘‘Standards for Fraternities’’ set
forth mandatory operating guidelines that
define the privileges and responsibilities of
the fraternity houses. They include 1) the
agreement of the house corporation and
chapter to turn the title of the house over to
the University and 2) the agreement to have
a non-student manager living in the frater-
nity after the house is renovated.

The four fraternities whose applications
have been approved will now organize
building committees composed of alumni
representatives of the house corporations and
student chapter members. Each fraternity’s
building committee will meet with architects
and with Frank A. Parsons, ’54, coordinator
of capital planning at W&L. As overseer of
the Fraternity Renaissance Program, Parsons
will represent the University in negotiations
with architects, construction firms, fraternity
house corporations, and the city of
Lexington.

The University has engaged VMDO, a
Charlottesville architectural firm, as project
architect. The firm produced an earlier study
that revealed the scope of a system-wide
renovation plan.

**Our objective is to retain the character
of the individual chapter houses so far as
possible,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘External modifica-
tions will be held to a minimum, and certain
renovation features will be standardized in
order to make the project economically
sound.”’

Many of the houses will need additions
to accommodate a large party room apart
from the living area of the house, as well as
living quarters for the resident manager.
Both facilities are required to meet the
**Standards for Fraternities.’’

Parsons hoped that the other 12 frater-
nities would submit their applications soon
so that a ‘‘rolling renovation”’ of four to five
houses at a time will take place. At that rate,
Parsons said, the entire renovation project
could be completed in two to three years.

 

Freshman dies
in hit-and-run

A Washington and Lee Univer-
sity freshman was killed in March
in a hit-and-run accident in
Lexington.

Mary Ashley Scarborough, 19,
of Raleigh, N.C., died early on the
morning of March 16 after being
struck by a car on Washington
Street.

According to Lexington police,
the accident occurred between 2:10
and 2:15 a.m. near the Phi Kappa
Psi fraternity house. Scarborough
was apparently on her way to or
from a gathering at Kappa Alpha
fraternity.

There were no known witnesses
to the accident. At press time, area
police were continuing their in-
vestigation of the incident and had
made no arrests.

A charter member of Chi
Omega sorority at W&L, Scar-
borough was known as an outgo-
ing and witty member of the
University community. ‘‘Along
with the Scarborough family, we
mourn that Ashley was with us for
such a short time, but we celebrate
the time she spent with us and the
many gifts she left us in the form
of happy memories,’’ said Kenneth
P. Ruscio, ’76, assistant dean of
freshmen and residence life, during
a memorial service in Lee Chapel.

‘*I recently asked her friends if
they remembered the first time they _
met Ashley,’’ Ruscio continued.
‘They did, of course, and they in-
stantly smiled, recalling their first
impressions. Attractive. Funny. A
dry and clever sense of humor that
she often turned on herself. A love
of life that was, at times,
benevolently devilish. Ashley was
a good and kind person, but she
also had a bit of an imp in her
which made her all the more
likable.”’

A group of Scarborough’s
friends and freshman class officers
have organized a fund drive to
plant a tree in her memory on the
Washington and Lee campus.
‘*Ashley’s friends believed it would
be most appropriate to create a liv-
ing memorial to her,’’ Ruscio said.

 

 

 

 

   

=
, es
_
a .
* -_
eed
os
a
>
a

Coulling receives
state faculty award

Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’48, S.
Blount Mason Jr. Professor of
English at Washington and Lee,
has been named one of 13 reci-
pients of the 1989 Outstanding
Faculty Awards from the State
Council of Higher Education for
Virginia.

The recipients of the Outstand-
ing Faculty Awards are chosen
from Virginia’s public and private
colleges and universities for their
contributions to teaching, research,
and public service. The awards
were presented at a banquet in
May.

Coulling has been a member of
the English faculty at Washington
and Lee since 1956. He served as
chairman of the department from
1983 until 1986 and was named to
the Mason professorship in 1983.
He holds master’s and doctorate
degrees from the University of
North Carolina, and his area of ex-
pertise is Victorian literature, with
particular emphasis on Matthew
Arnold.

A member of Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa, Coull-
ing has also received the Ring-tum
Phi Award (1972) and the Pusey
Award (1986) for outstanding ser-
vice and dedication at Washington
and Lee.

Coulling is the fourth W&L
professor to be honored since the
awards program was established by
the General Assembly in 1986.
Brian C. Murchison, professor of
law, was selected in 1988; Philip L.
Cline, professor of administration
and economics, and Leonard E.
Jarrard, professor of psychology,
were both selected in 1987.

 

 

Physicist von Baeyer
delivers Phi Beta Kappa

Hans C. von Baeyer, professor of physics
at the College of William and Mary, was the
keynote speaker at Washington and Lee’s an-
nual Phi Beta Kappa convocation in March.

von Baeyer’s talk, which was titled ‘“The
Goddess and the Cow: On the Human Value
of Science,’’ examined society’s justifications
for science. ‘‘For a university audience, the
value of science is aesthetic and cultural,”’
von Baeyer said. ‘‘I will call this constella-
tion of justifications the intellectual value of
science. For the ordinary taxpayer, on the
other hand, the value of science is
technological, medical, economic—what I
call its practical value.”’

von Baeyer quoted the German poet
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who said of
science, ‘‘For some she is a lofty celestial
goddess, for others an industrious cow who
supplies them with butter.’’ Added von
Baeyer: ‘‘Goethe’s characterization is as
penetrating as it is succinct. Science is, in-
deed, both goddess and cow—depending on
how you look at her.’’

One way to look at science, von Baeyer
suggested, is as the provider of ‘‘a coherent
account of the nature of the material world,
and the complex relationship of its
parts... .The tale of the birth of the
universe in an incandescent big bang, follow-
ed by tumultuous upheavals as light and mat-
ter separated from each other, atoms, stars,
and galaxies formed, planets condensed, and
mountain ranges took shape, and the saga
of the invisible dance of atoms combining
into complex molecules, the beginning of
life, the evolution of plants and animals and
the final emergence of human beings in their
glorious improbability—this story rivals the
book of Genesis for spiritual power and the
works of Shakespeare for metaphorical
suggestiveness. .. .

‘**By assigning us a definite role in the
drama of the unfolding of the universe,
science helps us to become more human,”’
von Baeyer continued. ‘“‘It demonstrates how
we are related to the very stars themselves.
It satisfies our innate curiosity about just
what this stuff is that we are made of.
Science provides a fixed, sound frame of
reference, a firm stage on which we can
observe, and participate in, the hurly-burly
of human life. That, in itself, is sufficient
justification for pursuing science, and for
funding it. It is the essence of what is meant
by the cultural value of science.”’

The practical value of science is self-
evident, von Baeyer said, in industry,

address

technology, and their applications to every-
day life. But not all scientific contributions
are beneficial, he added, citing the statistic
that more than half ‘‘of all physicists and
astronomers in this country work on projects
of direct military value. . . .Security is an
essential element of civilized life, along with
food, shelter, companionship, education,
and recreation, but it is not the paramount
element. Would you feel that your life is in
order if you devoted half of your salary, half”
of your energy and intelligence, half of your
waking hours, exclusively on the task of
preparing to defend yourself? Is that an ap-
propriate ordering of life’s priorities?’’

In addition to the aesthetic and practical
values of science, von Baeyer concluded,
there is a human value as well. For it is
science that has given humanity the modern
notion of pure, objective truth.

‘*‘With the truth located outside of
human beings, outside the mind of God, in
real objects accessible to everyone, the truth
becomes accessible to anyone who wants to
find it. In this way humanity is liberated
from the power of the few who claimed to
have a monopoly on truth, whether they be
priests, or princes, or philosophers, or even
physicists. Thus science contributes to
another human value: the dignity of every
human being.

**When the truth becomes democratic, a
commodity to be shared and enjoyed by
every human being regardless of station in
life, the individual is given privileges
previously reserved for the gods and their
chosen representatives, the power to
recognize the truth, and the right to be heard
when telling the truth.’’

A native of Berlin, von Baeyer is a
graduate of Columbia University, the
University of Miami, and Vanderbilt Univer-
sity. He is the author of Rainbows,
Snowflakes, and Quarks, which was publish-
ed in 1984.

During the convocation, 34 Washington
and Lee undergraduates and two recent
graduates were tapped for membership in
Phi Beta Kappa. Also tapped as honorary
members were von Baeyer; John W. Elrod,
vice president for academic affairs and dean
of the College (of arts and sciences); and
William Hurt Sledge, ’67, professor of
psychiatry at Yale University School of
Medicine.

ee

 

Bethlehem executive brings
unique perspective to classroom

During the
past winter term
a group. of
Washington and
Lee students par-
ticipated in an
educational exer-
cise that brought
_ academic theory
unusually close to
home.

They ana-

? lyzed the Fancy

a Dress Ball.
Sia, So SY Not the quali-
ty of the music, mind you, nor the attrac-
tiveness of the decorations. Not even the
choice of a theme.

No, these were students in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics, and
they studied the ball as a business venture.
What had the customers been expecting?
Was the event a success? And was it well
managed?

The Fancy Dress discussion was one of
several exercises designed by John A. Jor-

 

Honors and awards

e Bernadette M. Kempton of Harrison-
burg, Va., has been named the recipient of
Washington and Lee’s Phi Beta Kappa
Sophomore Award for the 1988-89 academic
year.

The award is made annually by the Gam-
ma of Virginia chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
to the sophomore who has attained the
highest cumulative scholastic average
through the end of the fall term of the
sophomore year at W&L.

Kempton, a biology major, is a Univer-
sity Scholar and a participant in the Robert
E. Lee Research Program. She is a member
of the University-Rockbridge Symphony Or-
chestra, the instrumental ensemble, the cross
country team, and the Big Sister Program.

e John C. Roach, a senior from
Frankfort, Ky., has received the 1989 Ed-
ward L. Pinney Prize at Washington and
Lee. ‘

The prize is awarded by the Student Af-
fairs Committee, an organization compos-
ed of students, faculty, and administrators
at W&L.

24 W&L

dan Jr., senior vice president for Bethlehem
Steel Corp., who spent a week at W&L in
the winter talking with students about
business and manufacturing. Jordan’s visit
was sponsored by the University’s ‘‘Ex-
ecutive in Residence Program,’’ which is
designed to bring leaders from the business
world to campus to meet with students and
faculty members.

Throughout his stay in Lexington, Jor-
dan spoke to classes from virtually every seg-
ment of the commerce school and par-
ticipated in discussions about management
and organizational behavior, business policy,
labor relations, managerial finance, business
ethics, management information systems,
and the legislative process.

And, of course, Fancy Dress. The ap-
plication of theory to real-life situations with
which students are familiar is perhaps the
best training of all, Jordan believes. It allows
students to apply what they have learned in
the classroom. And although situations may
change as the students move through their
lives, he says, it is important at all times for
them to be able to apply their knowledge.

Awarded for the first time in 1982, the
Pinney Prize was established by the
Washington and Lee faculty in memory of
Edward Lee Pinney, who was a professor of
politics at W&L from 1963 until his death
in 1980. The Pinney Prize recognizes extraor-
dinary commitment to both personal scholar-
ship and to the nurturing of intellectual life
at the University.

Roach, a history and economics major,
is chairman of Contact, a program that
brings well-known speakers to the campus.
He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
honorary society and has served on the
coeducation steering committee, the sorori-
ty advisory committee, and the Mock Con-
vention committee. He is treasurer of Kap-
pa Sigma social fraternity and the Inter-
fraternity Council.

e Shenandoah: The Washington and
Lee University Review has awarded two
prizes for work published in the last volume
year.

Lisa Sandlin received the Jeanne Char-
piot Goodheart Prize for Fiction for her

**T tell the students that it is not really im-
portant what they want to do, just as long
as they are successful,’’ says Jordan. “‘I tel]
them the sooner they get on in life with set-
ting up a context or framework through
which to view the world and the way it
works, the better off they will be.

‘*Students are right at the beginning of
their working lives. They should ask
themselves, ‘What do you want to come out
of college with?’ The answer is a disciplin-
ed, systematic way of thinking about things.
That way, when you confront problems, you
have an orderly process for working through
them.’’

While he taught the students some impor-
tant lessons, Jordan says that he himself
learned something from his time at
Washington and Lee.

‘**Getting away from the corporate scene
really gives me a different perspective,’’ he
explains. ‘‘I enjoy the interaction and the
challenge we provide each other. It is tremen-
dously beneficial.”’

story, ‘‘Crease.’’ Sandlin is a writer based
in Santa Fe, N.M.

The Goodheart Prize of $1,000 is
presented annually to the author of what is
judged to be the best story published in
Shenandoah during a volume year. The
award is made possible by a gift of the late
Mrs. Goodheart’s husband, Harry G.

Goodheart Jr., ’41, and her son, Harry G.

Goodheart III, ’66, ‘‘to reflect her en-
thusiastic interest in well-crafted fiction and
her affection for the University.’’

Brian Boyd of New Zealand received
Shenandoah’s Thomas H. Carter Memorial
Award for Literary Criticism for his essay,
‘*Foretaste of Exile.’’ The essay is a chapter
excerpted from Boyd’s two-volume
biography of Russian poet and writer
Vladimir Nabokov which will be published
next year by Princeton University Press.

The Carter Award is a $400 cash prize
given to the author of the best essay publish-
ed in Shenandoah during a volume year. It
is awarded in memory of Thomas H. Carter,
54, one of the founders of Shenandoah.

 

ee ee

See

4

 

 

Washington Society
established

A new organ-
ization of Wash-
ington and Lee al-
umni has been
formed to assist
the University in
the areas of fund
raising and com-
munications.

The Washing-
ton Society is com-
posed entirely of former members of
Washington and Lee’s Alumni Association
Board of Directors. Nineteen of the socie-
ty’s 52 members attended its inaugural
meeting, held in Lexington in late April.

 

Florida alumni
create scholarship fund

Washington and Lee alumni along
Florida’s west coast have raised $100,000 to
establish an honor scholarship fund at the
University.

The Florida West Coast Honor Scholar-
ship was created by members of W&L’s West
Coast and Sarasota chapters and will be
awarded to deserving students from the area.
Recipients will be selected by members of the
University’s admissions staff and alumni
chapter representatives.

Stuart appointed
editor of Shenandoah

Dabney Stuart, professor of English at
Washington and Lee, has been named editor
of Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee
University Review.

Stuart succeeds
James Boatwright, who
_ served as editor of
sa Shenandoah from 1962
- until his death last
September. Stuart had
been acting editor since
July 1988 and officially
assumed the position in
December.

“‘Dabney Stuart has all the virtues of a
Successful editor,’’ said John W. Elrod, vice
President for academic affairs and dean of
the College. ‘‘He is an accomplished writer
and a seasoned teacher, and he possesses a

 

*‘The Washington Society will be a great
resource for the development staff and for
the University,’’ said Lex O. McMillan, ’72,
director of development. ‘‘We are delighted
that so many of those eligible have agreed
to serve.”’

During the meeting, members of the
society heard reports from President John
D. Wilson, Vice Presidents John W. Elrod
and Farris P. Hotchkiss, and members of
Washington and Lee’s development office
staff. They also toured the campus and at-
tended the Generals’ lacrosse game with
VMI.

**We are most grateful to our West Coast
alumni for their generous support of our
honor scholarship program,’’ said William
M. Hartog, director of admissions. ‘‘This
new scholarship fund will help us greatly in
our efforts to attract outstanding students
from the West Coast area.”’

A. Michael Airheart, ’78, was chairman
of the scholarship fund-raising effort.

fine critical eye as well as solid administrative
skills. He is superbly suited for this position,
and there is every reason to believe that
Shenandoah, under his leadership, will con-
tinue to be a nationally admired literary
magazine.’’

Shenandoah was founded in 1950 by
WA&L students, including Tom Wolfe, ’51,
and William Hoffman, ’53, both of whom
have become successful writers. Through the
years the magazine has published such
authors as W.H. Auden, William Faulkner,
Eudora Welty, James Dickey, Peter Taylor,
Flannery O’Connor, and Richard Wilbur,
among others.

A graduate of Davidson College and
Harvard University, Stuart joined the W&L
faculty in 1965.

 

Alty receives grant

Lisa T. Alty, assistant professor of
chemistry at Washington and Lee, is one of
13 faculty members at Virginia private col-
leges selected to receive a fellowship for
research through the Maurice L. Mednick
Memorial Fund from the Virginia Founda-
tion for Independent Colleges.

Established in
1967 by the family
of the late Maurice
Mednick of the
_ Globe Iron Con-
struction Co. of
Norfolk (Va.), the
fellowships are
____ awarded yearly to
. - members of the
_ VFIC college fac-
PR ego mame ulties.

Alty joined the W&L faculty in 1987. She
received her bachelor’s degree in chemistry
from the College of William and Mary and
her doctorate in medicinal chemistry from
the Virginia Commonwealth University’s
Medical College of Virginia. She will use the
grant to continue her research on anti-
inflammatory drugs.

   

ne

Clarification

The Winter 1989 issue of the Alumni
Magazine contained excerpts of President
John D. Wilson’s remarks to the Washington
and Lee community on Founders’ Day. In
his address, Wilson described a recent arti-
cle in the Roanoke Times & World News
which looked back at that city’s response to
segregation in 1963.

From that article, Wilson said, he
discovered ‘‘that it was impossible in 1963
for a black family to get an obituary printed
in the Roanoke Times for someone who had
died.’’ .

It turns out that the Roanoke Times of
1989 may have had its facts a little wrong
about the newspaper of 1963. Barton W.
Morris, ’43, was the executive editor of both
the Roanoke Times and the World-News
from 1955 until 1973, when he was named
publisher. In a column published recently in
the newspaper, he recalls that obituaries of
blacks were indeed published in the paper,
but until 1963 they were segregated from
those of whites.

W&L 25

 

 

 

Several hundred return for May reunion weekend

loomy skies and unseasonably cool

temperatures did not deter approx-

imately 630 Washington and Lee
alumni and their families from returning to
Lexington for reunion weekend in May.

The festivities began Thursday, May 11,
with an opening lecture on the French
Revolution by H. Marshall Jarrett, 52, pro-
fessor of history. Returning alumni were of-
ficially welcomed to the campus that even-
ing, when Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’39, trustee
emeritus of Washington and Lee and former
president of the University of Virginia, spoke
to a full Lee Chapel audience on the topic
of ‘‘Continuity and Change.’’

Shannon began his address by reviewing
social and political events in the mid-1930s
and providing reminiscences about the class
of 1939. Yet, he cautioned, ‘‘one doesn’t
have to be a member of the reunion classes
to realize that times have changed and to be
aware of changes at Washington and Lee.

‘*‘Most alumni nostalgically want the
University to remain just as it was when we
attended. Yet change is one of the constants
of life, and in modern times, as Alvin Tof-
fler has pointed out in his book Future
Shock, change is constantly accelerating.
Human institutions that do not respond to
change wither and die.

‘**The great strength of Washington and
Lee has been its ability to maintain a balance
between continuity and change,’’ Shannon
continued. ‘‘Continuity resides in its
undeviating commitment to personal honor
and integrity and to intellectual distinction.
It sustains these two ideals through the
student-run Honor System, which traces its
origin to General Lee, and through an
outstanding teaching faculty inculcating
learning in the intimate context of a small
college with a continuing emphasis on the
liberal arts.

26 W&L

‘**This is the a/ma mater that all alumni
cherish in memory. This is the institution that
helped form our intellects and characters;
this is the institution that is still here today,
yet stronger, I believe, than ever before.’’

Throughout the weekend, the returning
graduates gathered for such varied activities
as outdoor luncheons, panel discussions, reu-
nion banquets, an alumni glee club concert,
and a reception honoring retiring members
of the faculty. But on Saturday morning, the
entire alumni body had the chance to assem-
ble together in Lee Chapel for the annual
meeting of the Alumni Association. Four
reunion classes celebrated that occasion by
presenting significant gifts to their a/ma
mater.

In honor of its 50th reunion, the class of
1939 presented a gift of $785,268 to establish
an international studies endowment, which
will enable students and members of the
faculty to travel and study abroad. Members
of the class of 1964, meanwhile, marked their
silver reunion by announcing the creation of
a $300,000 endowment fund to bring visiting
artists and performers to W&L’s Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts.

For the first time, two law school classes

 

 

also made special reunion gifts. The class of
’49L has raised $115,000 in its effort to begin
a fellowship fund to support new ‘‘Univer-
sity professorships,’’ which will be shared by
W&L’s undergraduate and law divisions.
The class of ’64L, meanwhile, created a
$20,300 scholarship fund for deserving
students in the School of Law.

During the meeting, Lex O. McMillan,
’72, noted that this was the fourth con-
secutive year that undergraduate classes have
made reunion gifts to the University. ‘‘Hav-
ing worked closely over the past two years

set nimi

i - 7< :

x fi io ee fe
— aan
; eee

Me es at

f : *

Mi tl iat
5

 

 

with several of the class reunion commit-
tees,’’ McMillan said, ‘‘I have been struck
by the generosity and the devotion and the
love displayed by those who take part in
these special gift projects.

‘*Although the Development Office
naturally provides logistical support, these
efforts are truly the work of the classes
themselves. Each has been a splendid exam-
ple of volunteerism and philanthropy in ac-
tion.”’

McMillan also remarked that one special
group of alumni—members of the class of

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

1929—were present for a 60th reunion. In
honor of the occasion, the class presented to
the University a sum totaling more than
$24,000. The gift augments a scholarship
fund, created by the class at its 50th reunion
a decade ago, which now amounts to more
than $100,000.

Also during the assembly, the Alumni
Association presented Distinguished Alum-
nus Awards to three Washington and Lee
graduates. They were:

e Robert W. Hilton Jr.,
Cincinnati;

e J. Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, of Bal-
timore; and

e Paul J.B. Murphy Jr., ’40, of Mc-
Lean, Va.

Hilton practiced law in Cincinnati for 48
years, 27 of them with the firm Paxton and
Seasongood. He has been president of the
Cincinnati Episcopal Church, the Better
Housing League, the Board of Housing Ap-
peals, the Cincinnati Council of Navy
League, the Cincinnatus Association, the
Cincinnati Literary Club, and W&L’s Cin-
cinnati alumni chapter.

Since 1968, Marion has been a manag-
ing partner of Tydings & Rosenburg in

"38, of

 

76, *79L, introduces a future
graduate to Washington and Lee; members of the classes of ’29 and ’49 converse during a reception on the back campus; E. Stephen Walsh, ’64,
and Fred G. Francis, ‘39L, accept reunion attendance prizes on behalf of their classes; William C. (Burr) Datz, ’75, provides music for an outdoor
luncheon; Christopher J. Deighan, ’87, and Benjamin C. Eastwood, ’29, perform with the alumni glee club; Maynard Mims Powell, an attorney
and partner at McGuire, Woods, Battle, and Boothe and wife of Lewis F. Powell III, ’74, provides insights during a panel discussion concerning
dual-career couples; alumni spend reunion weekend catching up with old friends.

Baltimore. He has served as a member of the
Rodgers Forge Community Association and
as chairman of the board of Dismas House,
a halfway house for federal and state of-
fenders. He has been chairman of W&L’s
Annual Fund since 1987 and is a member of
the Law Council, the Lee Associates, and the
Generals’ Council.

After graduating from W&L, Murphy
spent 30 years in the U.S. Army as an infan-
try officer, earning the Legion of Merit, the
Bronze Star, and the Purple Heart. Upon
retirement from the military, he joined
System Development Corp., which later
became Unisys Corp. He was the first presi-
dent of W&L’s Alumni Fraternity Council
and is current chairman of the Fraternity
House Renovation Steering Committee.

Changes in leadership in the Alumni
Association were also announced during the
reunion assembly. John D. Klinedinst, ’71,
°78L, of San Diego took over as president
of the Association from W. D. (Dan)
McGrew Jr., *52, of Atlanta.

Elected to four-year terms as directors of
the Association were Benjamin L. Bailey,
°75, of Charleston, W.Va.; William M.
Bowen, ’61, of Hilton Head Island, S.C.;
Waller T. (Beau) Dudley, ’74, ’79L, of Alex-
andria, Va.; Michael G. Morgan, ’68, of
Stamford, Conn.; and Michael T. Thornton,
°70, ’78L, of Atlanta, Ga.

The Law School Association elected
Judge Norman C. Roettger Jr., ’58L, of Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., as its new president. He
succeeds Ray V. Hartwell III, ’69, ’75L. J.
Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, of Baltimore is
the new vice president. New members of the
Law School Council are Robert L. Banse,
°53L, Leonard C. Greenebaum, ’56, ’58L,
Thomas N. McJunkin, ’70, ’74L, James C.
Treadway Jr., ’67L, and S. Maynard Turk,
"Jali.

W&L 27

Photo by Mathew J. Horridge, ’89

 

 

Minority Alumni, Students Participate in Conference

n mid-March, a group of minority
alumni of Washington and Lee return-
ed to the campus for a weekend of rem-
iniscence and reacquaintance during W&L’s
first Minority Student/ Alumni Conference.

Fifteen minority alumni and their
families attended the conference, which coin-
cided with a visit to Washington and Lee by
26 minority high school students. The two
groups, along with current W&L minority
students, met on several occasions to discuss
various topics of interest.

The idea for the conference originated
last year from officers of the Minority Stu-
dent Association. James Farrar Jr., °74,
associate director of alumni programs,
organized the conference with the assistance
of Gene Perry, ’75, ’78L, a member of the
Alumni Association Board of Directors.

The purpose of the conference, Farrar
said, was to bring minority alumni up to date
with the activities of W&L’s currently enroll-
ed minority students, and to familiarize the
alumni with the goals and objectives related
to minority student recruitment and reten-
tion efforts on campus.

Although the conference officially began

28 W&L

Friday evening, with a welcome reception at
the Alumni House, the activities actually
started earlier in the day, when a panel of
three minority alumni spoke to the group of
prospective students. Matt Towns, ’74,
Johnny Morrison, ’74, ’77L, and Terry
McWhorter, ’85, recalled their experiences
at W&L and gave the students advice about
their academic careers.

On Saturday morning, the current
minority students had a chance to meet with
the alumni in a discussion titled ‘‘W&L To-
day.’’ Participants in the discussion includ-
ed Santell Walthour, ’91, president of the
Minority Student Association, and Anece
McCloud, associate dean of students for
minority and international affairs.

Following lunch and campus tours, the
minority alumni attended a session with
members of the administration. Richard
Sessoms, director of alumni programs, began
the program by saying, ‘‘Washington and
Lee is trying to create a new day as far as
minority alumni are concerned. We have a
mission to do well here.”’

John Elrod, vice president for academic
affairs and dean of the College (of arts and

sciences), next presented an overview of the
University’s long-range planning process and
described recent efforts to recruit more
minority faculty members.

William Hartog, director of admissions,
and Grafton Young, assistant director of ad-
missions, discussed the University’s recruit-
ment of minority students.

‘*We don’t have the underground that we
need to recruit’? more minority students,
Hartog said, noting that student recruitment
was a specific area in which minority alum-
ni could assist his office. He added that
minority applications increased 23 percent
from the year before, and that the admis-
sions office planned to offer 39 letters of ac-
ceptance to minority students for the upcom-
ing academic year.

The afternoon agenda ended with a
follow-up discussion, moderated by Perry,
which was titled ‘‘Where Do We Go From
Here?’’ The evening was devoted to a din-
ner in Evans Dining Hall and a dance in the
General Headquarters that brought together
the minority alumni, students, and visiting
high school students, as well as members of
the administration and faculty.

 

 

Clockwise from left: Matt Towns, ’74, Bill
Hill, ’74, ’77L, Johnny Morrison, ’74, ’77L,
John Miller, ’77, "80L, Thomas Penn, ’74, his
son Courtney Penn, ’92, and Rodney Hub-
bard, ’74, were among those attending the
minority conference; a prospective student
learns about W&L; Terry McWhorter, ’85,
visits with James Rambeau, ’91; Towns, Mor-
rison, and McWhorter participate in a panel
discussion for prospective students; John W.
Elrod, vice president for academic affairs and
dean of the College, speaks with Carl
Smothers, 72.

Perry said the minority alumni returned
for the conference ‘‘because they had
something to say. A lot has been done at
Washington and Lee since we left here, but
there is still a long way to go. We think we
can help.’’

Throughout the weekend, Perry said, the
alumni were impressed with the number and
quality of students being attracted to
Washington and Lee. The group hopes, he
added, that the University will begin to at-
tract like numbers of minority faculty.

**The observation I heard more than any
other was the need for more minority facul-
ty members,’’ Perry said. ‘‘The problem is
not as bad as it was in the ’70s when we were
here, but we would like to see more recruiting
efforts. We realize it is not easy to attract
minority faculty members to Lexington,
Va.”’

Another Minority Student/Alumni Con-
ference is planned for next spring, Perry said.
“‘We hope to double our numbers next
year,’’ he said. ‘‘We saw enough good things
to justify doing it again.’’

W&L

 

29

 

 

“*Since the Renaissance in Europe and its aftermath in the
colonies of Europe, including America, the way that Western
man has seen the world has been an exclusively Eurocentric
way of looking at things. That’s perfectly fine. The Asian In-
dians saw the world through Indian eyes, and the Chinese saw
the world through Chinese eyes. There’s no doubt about that.
But none of those civilizations ever claimed a global objec-
tivity for their concerns; they never claimed for [their view]
that it is history, it is truth, it is the way things are. . . .Dur-
ing the period of expansion of the West into Asia and Africa
in the 17th and 18th centuries, it was assumed that sooner or
later all the other civilizations of the world would give up their
subversive ways and would become a good, Western type of
people. That was called ‘progress.’ ”’

—Seyyed H. Nasr, university professor of
Islamic studies and history of science at
George Washington University, speaking on
May 17 in the University Library

“*It seems to me that the law is a profession in the original
sense of the word. I profess that I am a lawyer. I profess that
in this country and at this time I believe that the law has the
capacity in most cases to fairly resolve disputes, to do justice,
and even to punish evil. It’s not a perfect system; there are
very great flaws. But to the extent that there are great flaws,
I also believe that there is an opportunity to remedy them by
reform. I have to confess fundamentally to having a faith in
the system.’’

—Talbot (Sandy) D’Alemberte, president-elect
of the American Bar Association and dean of
the Florida State University School of Law,
in a lecture given April 12 in Lewis Hall

 

_ = _—_—

Eurocentrism, The Judiciary, and Population Growth
Recently Heard on the W&L Campus

“In the human family, we are doing something that, I hope,
none of you would do in your private finances. We are only able
to support 5.2 billion people [the world’s present population] by
squandering our inheritance. We are not coming close to living
on our income. We are living on a one-time bonanza.”’

—FPaul Ehrlich, Bing professor of population
studies at Stanford University, delivering the
first John T. Bate II and Margaret Mitchell
Bate Lecture in Demography on May 3 in the
University Library. The lectureship, which
provides support for ‘‘visiting lecturers,
research, and other scholarly activity in the
department of economics for demographic
studies, ’’ was established by Dr. John T. Bate
Il of Louisville, Ky., in memory of his mother
and father, a member of W&L’s class of 1919.

“(There is] concern about what kind of country we’re becom-
ing. The [reaction] across the country to the ‘wilding’ in Central
Park, the brutal rape and beating of a woman, attested to that
concern. The fact that our capital, Washington, D.C., has become
the murder capital of America, is of deep concern to citizens.
And it is not enough to say these are insoluble problems and can’t
be handled at the presidential level. . . .We must have something
new to give the American people the belief that the government
is On their side and not on the side of the transgressors.”

—Political commentator and syndicated colum-
nist Robert Novak, delivering the talk ‘‘Inside
Report; An Overview of the Bush Administra-
tion,’’ to a Lee Chapel audience May 17 under
the auspices of Contact, the student-funded
lecture series

 

 

 

 

‘Name a Seat’ program
supports Lenfest center

Washington and Lee is offering alumni
and friends an opportunity to ‘‘name a seat”’
in the main theatre of the Lenfest Center for
the Performing Arts, scheduled for comple-
tion in September 1990.

With a gift of $2,500, a donor can bestow
his or her name, or the name of another in-
dividual, on one of the theatre’s 425 seats.
Every named seat will be identified with a
plaque, mounted on its back, bearing the
name of the donor or someone the donor
wishes to offer.

Construction on the center began last
summer after the University received a gift
of $3 million from Marguerite and H.F.
(Gerry) Lenfest, ’54, of Huntingdon Valley,
Pa.

The combined construction and endow-
ment cost of the new center will be $11.8
million, approximately $11.2 million of
which has already been raised.

30 W&L

 

Construction is proceeding on schedule for the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.

 

Former athletes chosen

Five former Washington and Lee athletes
will be inducted into the W&L Athletic Hall
of Fame in September.

Ernest J. (Skip) Lichtfuss Jr., ’74; the
late Richard A. (Cap’n Dick) Smith, °13;
Gilbert Bocetti Jr., 52; Norman P. Iler, ’37;
and Dominick A. Flora, ’58, will be inducted
into the Hall of Fame during a banquet Sept.
22. They will also be recognized the follow-
ing day during halftime of the Generals’
football game against Centre.

The Athletic Hall of Fame was establish-
ed in 1987 to honor individuals who have
made outstanding contributions to
Washington and Lee athletics and have
helped bring recognition, excellence, and
distinction to the University and its inter-
collegiate athletic program.

Lichtfuss was W&L’s leading scorer in
basketball as a sophomore, junior, and
senior. He graduated from Washington and
Lee with 1,592 career points to make him the
fifth leading scorer in the University’s
history. He was also an All-American
lacrosse player, helping W&L to a .877 win-
ning percentage during his four years. He
was chosen to represent W&L in the annual
North-South lacrosse game in 1974.

Skip Lichtfuss

Smith became athletic director at his a/ma
mater in 1921 and remained in that post un-
til his retirement in 1954. He coached
baseball at W&L for 30 years, leading his
teams to one Southern Conference cham-
pionship and several Virginia Big Six cham-
pionships. He also coached the basketball
team from 1926 to 1930. He died in 1975.

 

 

Cap’n Dick Smith

Bocetti, a two-time All-Southern Con-
ference selection at quarterback, led the
W&L football team to an 8-2 record in 1950
and a spot in the 1951 Gator Bowl for the
Generals’ first and only appearance in a
postseason bowl game. In 1949, he set a na-
tional single-game record for total offense
with 340 yards against Davidson, and the
following year he was named the best player
in the state by the Roanoke Touchdown
Club.

 

Gil Bocetti

Iler was an All-American point guard
who helped W&L reach a 19-2 record in 1936
and a 17-4 record in 1937, the two best back-
to-back seasons in Washington and Lee

for induction into Hall of Fame

basketball history. The 1937 team went on
to win W&L’s second Southern Conference
tournament championship. Iler also served
as captain of the baseball squad in his senior
year and led the team in batting.

  

m
%

EE ae 4
- a 7 7 nie - : Wiss ie ey
ges ~ ee | o ue a
Mh ss ise m6 “sy
Cs 2: Ws

Norm Iler

A four-year starter on the W&L basket-
ball team, Flora averaged 21 points per game
and finished his career with a school-record
2,310 points. He was named to the first team
of the Helms Foundation All-America in
1958 alongside such players as Oscar Robert-
son and Wilt Chamberlain. He also played
shortstop, second base, and center field for
the W&L baseball team.

 

Dom Flora

W&L 31

The Bookshelf

Harry Emerson Fosdick:
Persuasive Preacher

By Halford R. Ryan

Professor of Public Speaking

(Greenwood Press)

This, Ryan’s seventh book, is the second
in the ‘‘Great American Orators’’ series
published by Greenwood Press.

Harry Emerson Fosdick was a leading
pacifist before World War II. He spoke on
the National Vespers radio program for 20
years and attacked conservatives in the 1920s
in a sermon titled ‘‘Shall the Fundamentalists
Win?”’

Ryan conducted original research for his
book at the Union Theological Seminary in
New York and the Riverside Church and
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

He joined the W&L faculty in 1970 and
teaches courses in the history and criticism
of American public address.

The Palm Beach Sketchbook
The Chicago Sketchbook

By Bill Olendorf, ’46
(Olendorf Graphics)

These sketchbooks provide a ‘“‘visual
documentation”’ of two unique American
cities.

The Palm Beach book contains 195 sket-
ches which evoke the natural landscape and
history of ‘‘the Riviera of America.’’ The
collection of Chicago scenes, on the other
hand, features views of such landmarks as
the Racquet Club, the Medinah Temple, the
Golden Ox, and Assumption Church.

A professional artist for more than 30
years, Olendorf has exhibited extensively
throughout Europe and the United States
and has held one-man shows in Paris,
Stockholm, Mykonos, San Francisco, and
his home city of Chicago. His oil paintings
are in the private collections of such in-
dividuals as Henry Kissinger, France’s Presi-
dent Mitterand, Ronald Reagan, and Mrs.
Ray Kroc.

The Sarah Mildred Long Bridge
By Woodard D. Openo, ’65
(Peter E. Randall Publisher)

The subtitle of this work is ‘‘A History
of the Maine-New Hampshire Interstate
Bridge from Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
to Kittery, Maine.’’ The bridge was built 50

32. W&L

 

years ago by the Maine-New Hampshire In-
terstate Bridge Authority and was later
renamed to honor the authority’s executive
director.

Openo explains the history of the bridge,
describes the construction of the Interstate
Bridge, and discusses the bridge’s operation.
The book also contains numerous rare
photographs and charts to complement the
text.

Openo is pursuing a doctoral degree in
art history from the University of Michigan.
He lives in Somersworth, N.H.

Dr. George Craddock

Hello, Friend
Ed. by Dr. Jeffrey Wilson
(Warwick House Publishing)

Hello, Friend is a collection of
reminiscences and anecdotes about the late
Dr. George Craddock, ’30, who practiced
medicine in Lynchburg, Va., for 44 years.

Craddock received his medical degree
from Jefferson Medical College in 1935. In
1941, following his internship and residen-
cy at the Philadelphia General Hospital and
the Medical College of Virginia, he establish-
ed a private practice of internal medicine in
Lynchburg.

After his death in 1985, the auditorium
at Lynchburg’s Virginia Baptist Hospital was
dedicated to his memory, and a series of con-
tinuing physician education lectures was
established in his name.

 

Jeffrey Wilson, who compiled the stories
contained in Hello, Friend, is a Lynchburg
rheumatologist.

All proceeds from the sale of the book,
which is available at Virginia Baptist
Hospital, will go to the Craddock Memorial
Fund.

The Ice at the Bottom of the World
By Mark Richard, ’80
(Alfred A. Knopf)

This collection of 10 short stories con-
stitutes Mark Richard’s first published book,
although some of the stories have appeared
in Anateus, Equator, Esquire, and The
Quarterly.

Richard has also contributed to
Washington and Lee’s own Shenandoah,
and last year his story ‘‘Happiness of the
Garden Variety’? won him Shenandoah’s
Jeanne Charpiot Goodheart Prize.

**In lush language and varied voices,
Richard gives life to a small world in these
stories filled with humor, heartbreak, love,
and its loss,’’ a review in Publishers Weekly
said of The Ice at the Bottom of the World.
**Readers will long for more.’’

A resident of New York City, Richard is
a former private investigator and member of
the merchant marine.

The Way We Lived: Durham, 1900-1920
By James G. Leyburn

Dean of the College, Emeritus
(Northcross House Inc.)

As its title suggests, The Way We Lived
is Leyburn’s comprehensive account—part
reminiscence and part sociological
analysis—of the patterns and foibles of liv-
ing in Durham, N.C., where he grew up as
the son of a Presbyterian minister.

Leyburn describes life in this Southern
town just after the turn of the century, ex-
amining issues large and small: the subjects
taught in public schools; the customs of
courtship; variations on how men tipped
their hats; the quietness of the streets before
the advent of electricity.

The book also touches on more disturb-
ing subjects, such as attitudes of white
supremacy and the degrading treatment of
blacks.

Leyburn received a bachelor’s degree
from Trinity College in Durham, master’s
degrees from Duke and Princeton Univer-

 

sities, and a doctorate from Yale Universi-
ty. He holds honorary degrees from Duke
and Washington and Lee. He served as dean
of the College (of arts and sciences) at W&L
from 1947 to 1956 and taught sociology at
the University until his retirement in 1972.
He now lives in Williamsport, Md. The Way
We Lived is his fifth book.

Negative Spring: Crisis Imagery
in the Works of Brentano, Lenau, Rilke
and T.S. Eliot

By David B. Dickens

Professor of German

(Peter Lang Publishing Inc.)

The phrase ‘‘negative spring’’ refers to
the different and disturbing attitude toward
spring displayed by a number of poets, four
of whom are examined and compared in
Dickens’ book. The opening lines of Eliot’s
The Waste Land (1922) or the painful and
bitter lines of Brentano in his poem ‘‘Fruhl-
ingsschrei eines Knechtes aus der Tiefe’’
(1817) are familiar examples.

The study is the first book-length ex-
amination of this indicator of crisis or
despair. It argues that this attitude, a rejec-
tion of spring and all the positive associations
it has traditionally symbolized, began in nor-
thern European literatures in the 17th cen-
tury, perhaps as a result of tensions introduc-
ed into society by the impact of the scien-
tific revolution and the Protestant Reforma-
tion. Together they caused many people to
lose hope and to despair. The book’s final
chapter examines similarities between Bren-
tano and Eliot and speculates whether
heretofore unexplored influences or parallels
are at work.

Dickens joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1960.

 

Alumni News

 

5. ‘
Med. sie

DALLAS—Guy Kerr, ’75, speaks with chapter president and classmate Bill Biesel, during a

February meeting.

7 hree alumni chapters on the East
Coast were recently honored for
their active continuing service to
Washington and Lee.

The New York chapter received the Best
Large Chapter Award for 1988. W&L Presi-
dent John D. Wilson presented the award
during the chapter’s annual spring banquet
at The Princeton Club in April.

Tom Wolfe, ’51, author of the best-
selling Bonfire of the Vanities, was the
keynote speaker for the event.

Earlier in the year, two other alumni
chapters received awards for their improve-
ment in chapter activity.

The Hilton Head chapter was recogniz-
ed as the Most Improved Small Chapter of
the Year during a dinner at the Harbor Town
Clubhouse in February. Just a few weeks
later, the New England chapter received the
Most Improved Large Chapter Award at a
banquet at the St. Botolph Club in Boston.

Presenting the awards to both chapters
was Richard B. Sessoms, director of alumni
programs.

Chorus makes tour

Members of Washington and Lee’s
University Chorus visited alumni in several
Southern states as they made their annual
spring tour in April.

 

In addition to giving performances, the
choristers also found time to socialize with
members of the Charleston, Eastern Ken-
tucky and Southern Ohio, Louisville, Mid-
die Tennessee, and Mid-South chapters.

Numerous alumni in these areas opened
their homes to the traveling singers during
their week-long tour.

Organization created
for New York law alumni

An association has been formed for
graduates of Washington and Lee’s School
of Law who live in New York City.

Ted Madara, ’89L, one of the group’s
founders, says the organization was created
**in response to much mid-winter speculation
about life in New York City.’’ The group’s
goals, Madara says, are to act as a
‘*pipeline’’ for W&L law students who want
to practice in New York; to encourage rela-
tionships among W&L law alumni who prac-
tice in the area; and to serve as a source of
information to all W&L alumni, whether
they want ‘“‘last-minute tickets to see Phan-
tom of the Opera’’ or ‘‘the name of a good
Manhattan baby-sitter.’’

The association also plans to assist the
School of Law in its student recruitment and
career placement efforts.

W&L 33

 

 

Other chapter activities

Birthday parties in honor of George
Washington brightened up the month of
February for several chapters, including
Pittsburgh, Richmond, Dallas, and Penin-
sula. The Winston-Salem chapter also held
a birthday celebration, which was attended
by Louis W. Hodges, Fletcher Otey Thomas
professor of religion at W&L and director
of the University’s programs in applied
ethics.

Alumni in Washington, D.C., and
Philadelphia held receptions in April for area
high school students who had been offered
admission to Washington and Lee.

Members of W&L’s faculty and ad-
ministration met with alumni in various parts
of the country during the winter and spring
to address topics of interest.

Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, associate dean
of students for Greek affairs, attended lun-
cheons in Richmond and Philadelphia to
discuss the University’s Fraternity
Renaissance Program. Farris P. Hotchkiss,
vice president for University relations, met
with members of the Birmingham chapter,
and N. Rick Heatley, director of career
development and placement, was the special
guest at a reception in Pittsburgh. John M.
Evans, professor of English, spoke to the
Atlanta chapter about ‘‘Mid-Life Revisions:
Uses of the Post-Modern Theorists.”’

34. W&L

 

left are Scott Tucker, ’87L, Lisa Pitts, Mark Grobmyer,
Thalheimer, associate alumni director Jim Farrar,

jute Babe
719

ARKANSAS (above)—At the Oaklawn Racetrack in February, chapter president Lee Thalheimer,
73, presents the Alumni Association Cup to winning jockey Don Howard. Also pictured from

’72, Libby Grobmyer, Libby

’74, and horse owner Debra Ingram. DALLAS

(below)—Margaret Ann Rose, ’86L, and Walter Blake, ’72, converse during a party in honor of

George Washington’s birthday.

Meanwhile, the Baltimore chapter played
host to the W&L lacrosse team during a
brunch prior to the Generals’ game with the
Mount Washington Club in February.

The New York chapter heard from Frank
Rose, ’71, author of West of Eden: The End
of Innocence at Apple Computer, during an
informal gathering in March. Out on Long
Island, members of the chapter got together
for cocktails at the Cherry Valley Country
Club.

The Arkansas chapter enjoyed ‘‘An
Afternoon at the Races’’ at the Oaklawn
Racetrack in February, while the Tidewater
chapter sponsored its annual oyster roast on
April Fools’ Day.

Closer to Lexington, members of the
Roanoke chapter convened for an annual
spring reception at the Hunting Hills Coun-
try Club, and members of the Rockbridge
chapter had dinner together before attending
the Fancy Dress Ball.

 

New Chapter
Presidents

The following are new chapter
presidents:

Atlanta—J. Donald Childress, ’70;
Connecticut River Valley—
Douglas M. Thomas, ’77L;
Keystone—Charles R. Brandt, ’63;
Los Angeles—David G. Stoeffel,
"81; ;

New York—Robert S. Keefe, ’68;
Richmond—George Booth, ’80.

 

 

 

a 4 SJASA F 4

PSL LE a4
Le
A

NEW YORK—Bob Keefe, ’68,
chapter president, and Gray
Coleman, ’79, receive the Large
Chapter of the Year certificate
trom W&L President John D.
Wilson and W. Dan McGrew,
"52, president of the Alumni
Board of Directors.

i

TT 74

 

7)

LEBRRRRR Oe

GREENSBORO—The chapter’s
board of directors include Mike
com McGarry, ’87, Ken Greene, ’67,
Bill Dunker, ’55, chapter presi-
dent Jed Dunn, ’82, Marsh Mer-
. riman, ’80, and Walt Hannah,

> ‘SOL.

BEBEE ISR Eeee

 

5
bivency
AMERY

VA

 

r/
TIDEWATER—In attendance at a winter gathering are Betty Morrison, ARKANSAS—Participating in a February meeting are Beverly Lambert,
John C. Morrison Jr., ’59, ’61L, and James H. Flippen, °*79. °31, Jim Rice, ’37, and Sid Vaughn, ’38.

 

W&L 35

 

36

 

 

W&L

 

TIDEWATER—Greeting Rick
Heatley, director of career ser-
vices at W&L (far right), are
John A. Craig, ’79, John Ran
Smith, ’82, and Larry Dumville,
"75.

TIDEWATER—Gilbert Swink,
"35, Mary Vellines, Wick
Vellines, ’38, and Walter Hoff-
man, ’31L, get together for an
April Fools’ Day gathering.

HILTON HEAD—Sharing the
Most Improved Small Chapter
Award are Bill Bowen, ’61,
Caroline Bowen, Suzanne
Plowden, and Ted Plowden, ’37,
chapter president.

 

 

(Legacy, continued from page 20)

said, ‘“‘The first we hear of football at
Washington and Lee is of games on the cam-
pus, with one hundred on a side, in 1872; the
prominent feature then seems to have been
broken shins.”’

Broken shins and chaos aside, it was a
beginning nonetheless. In 1873 W&L and
VMI met in what is believed to have been the
first football game ever played in the South.
Apparently W&L won that opening contest
by a score of 4-2, though the exact rules of
the game were a bit confusing—if, in fact,
there were any rules at all.

No other sport would shape W&L’s in-
tercollegiate athletic history as much as foot-
ball. Yet, the sport nearly died an early death
on many occasions in its first 30 years of ex-
istence. There were complaints about the
vague rules, and unpleasant incidents
developed between W&L and VMI. ‘‘A con-
test with VMI in 1878 concluded with hard
feelings,’’ Crenshaw noted. ‘‘According to
a Washington and Lee source, sentiment had
‘become entirely too bitter and unforgiv-
ing.’ ”’

The 1893 season was canceled at the mid-
way point because of dwindling enthusiasm,
and the following year, there were even fewer
students interested in participating in the
game. The sport was growing in disfavor
among the W&L faculty, and student senti-
ment was following along the same line. A
writer in the Southern Collegian cast foot-
ball in this light in 1895: ‘*Many less
scrupulous institutions, finding the posses-
sion of a winning football team an effective
means of advertising the fact of their ex-
istence, encourage or even aid in the secur-
ing of brawny matriculates for the sole pur-
pose of playing football.’’

For better or worse, however, football
survived. The feeling grew that athletics were
and should be an integral part of the college
experience. Students called for the construc-
tion of an athletic field ‘‘about which col-
lege enthusiasm and patriotism center.’’
William Lyne Wilson, who was president of
the University from 1897 to 1900, was not
wholeheartedly in favor of the game, or of
athletics in general, but he did recognize that
sport had an important role to play. Accord-
ing to Crenshaw, in one of his early speeches
Wilson reminded his students that while
physical exercise was important, the train-
ing of the mind was of the highest priority.

Wilson later wrote in his diary, ‘‘I do so
wish that they [the students] would concen-
trate their energies on base ball and tennis,
as football is too dangerous a game, especial-
ly for youths so young and light as most of
Ours are.’’ It was this same Wilson for whom
W&L’s football stadium was later named.

a

Despite its shaky
beginnings, football
took hold by the turn
of the century, and
Washington and Lee’s
entire athletic pro-
gram began to grow.
Crew and baseball
continued to develop.
Dr. Naismith’s game
of basketball reached
Virginia, and by 1906
W&L had a team of
its own. A track and
field team was formed
that same year. In
1914, W&L began
competing in cross
country, and four
years later, the first in-
tercollegiate tennis
team took the court.
Swimming and wres-
tling came along in the
1920s, and by 1927,
W&L had a golf team,
too. Doremus Gym-
nasium was completed
in 1914, while Wilson
Field was expanded to
3,000 seats in 1924
and to 7,000 in 1929.

During those early
years, Washington
and Lee was blessed
with a number of out-
standing athletes. Foremost among them was
Cy Young, who won 16 varsity letters in his
W&L career. He starred in football, basket-
ball, baseball, and track. He led both the
football and basketball teams in scoring
throughout his career, was named an AIll-
American in football and basketball, was
captain of the baseball, basketball, and foot-
ball teams, and lost only one race in his track
career.

Guided by Coach Walter B. (Jogger)
Elcock, Young and his teammates captured
the first of W&L’s intercollegiate athletic
honors when they won the South Atlantic
football championship in 1914. Young and
team captain Al Pierotti led W&L to its on-
ly undefeated basketball season ever in 1917,
defeating the likes of Vanderbilt, West
Virginia, Tennessee, and North Carolina on
the way to a 13-0 record.

In the late 1920s and early ’30s, another
four-sport wonder arrived in Lexington. Like
Young, Leigh Williams earned 16
monograms in football, basketball, baseball,
and track while leading his teams to one suc-
cess after another. The basketball squad pil-
ed up records of 16-2, 16-4, and 11-7 with

 

dent days.

 

Above, Cap’n Dick Smith and Cy Young. Left, Young during his stu-

the 6’3’’ Williams manning the center posi-
tion. He also set Southern Conference
records in the 440-yard run and the mile
relay.

Just as the students of the late 19th cen-
tury had suggested, athletics at Washington
and Lee were becoming a rallying point and
a great source of pride. By 1910, ‘‘The W&L
Swing’’ had been copyrighted, and it soon
became as much a part of athletic contests
as first downs, free throws, and home runs.

In 1921, Richard A. Smith, better known
as ‘‘Cap’n Dick,”’ returned to his a/ma mater
as ‘‘graduate manager’’ of athletics—the
equivalent of today’s athletic director. He re-
mained in the position until his retirement
in 1954. During his tenure, he served as
basketball head coach for five seasons and
baseball head coach for 30. In the latter
capacity, he led the Generals to several state
titles and a Southern Conference champion-
ship in 1935. Under Smith, the W&L athletic
program became competitive in the Southern
Conference against much larger schools such
as Virginia, North Carolina, and North
Carolina State.

Two other coaching legends joined the

Wal 27

 

s
™
: ies. on <
= _— cae oe Soe ae ne a

A wrestling match during the 1965-66 season.

W&L athletic staff in the 1920s. E.P. (Cy)
Twombly came to Lexington the same year
Smith did. He was W&L’s swimming coach
for 40 years, and he directed the golf pro-
gram from its inception in 1927 until 1974.
Twombly also served as athletic director
from 1956 to 1969.

In 1925 Archie Mathis took over the
fledgling W&L wrestling program and im-
mediately led the team to an undefeated
season. In his 17 seasons as wrestling coach
he compiled eight more unbeaten records and
four Southern Conference championships.
Through his efforts, W&L was chosen to
host the 1936 NCAA Wrestling Champion-
ships, the first national championship event
ever held at W&L.

Washington and Lee’s athletic program
continued to prosper in the 1930s. Coach Tex
Tilson’s squad won the Southern Conference
football championship in 1934, and the
basketball teams of that decade were among
the most successful W&L has ever had, win-
ning the Southern Conference championship
in both 1934 and 1937. The ’37 team, coach-
ed by Cy Young, featured a towering center
named Bob Spessard and a quick, gritty
guard, Norm Iler, both of whom became
All-Americans.

In those years Washington and Lee’s suc-
cess formula was simple: outstanding
coaches coupled with exceptional athletes
who had fortunately decided to enroll at the
University. The face of collegiate athletics
was changing in this country, however.
Sports events were becoming a big money-
maker for colleges and universities, and
pressure increased to attract top-flight
athletes and field winning teams. W&L’s

38 —- W&L

 

competitors began making full use of athletic
scholarships, and W&L had little choice but
to follow suit. The price for that form of
**progress’’ eventually proved to be steep.

Though it did not have the resources of
schools like North Carolina or West Virginia,
Washington and Lee managed to keep pace
at the big-time level for the next few decades.
Art Lewis, a marvelous recruiter in his day,
enticed some great football players to come
to Lexington. Two of the more notable were
a bullish fullback-linebacker, Walt Michaels,
and a quick quarterback, Gil Bocetti, who
was an outstanding ball-handler. Bocetti and
Michaels led W&L to its best seasons of foot-
ball, culminating in a Southern Conference
championship in 1950 and an appearance in
the Gator Bowl following that season. But
it would be a last hurrah for big-time
athletics at Washington and Lee.

Despite the occasional upsets—and the
1951 shocker against Virginia engineered by
Bocetti may still stand as the single greatest
victory in Washington and Lee history—
football and subsidized athletics in general
were struggling at W&L. More often than
not, W&L was forced to play most of its
games in the larger stadiums of its op-
ponents, hoping somehow to make enough
money from the guaranteed gate receipts to
continue athletic subsidies. It was not to be.

As Frank A. Parsons, ’54, then the
University’s director of publicity, wrote in
an article for the Alumni Magazine, the foot-
ball program ‘‘was finding it more and more
difficult to sustain itself financially and pro-
vide support for other sports. Simultaneous-
ly, increasing competition for gifted players
was forcing recruiters to bring players ill-

prepared to handle a curriculum that provid-
ed no easy path toward eligibility.’’

The athletic department operated at a
deficit in 1953 and 1954, and when a cheating
ring was unearthed in the spring of 1954, it
eliminated more than half of the returning
football players. As a result, during a special
meeting in July 1954 the Board of Trustees
voted to abolish subsidized athletics. The up-
coming football season was canceled, and a
plan for a more comprehensive and
‘‘amateur’’-oriented athletic program was
recommended. The news created a stir of
protest and controversy, but the Trustees re-
mained unswayed. President Francis P.
Gaines told students and alumni, ‘‘It has
been apparent for some time that subsidiz-
ed football is inconsistent with our academic
purposes. There is no standing still in a subsi-
dized program. I am convinced we would
have had to make radical changes—larger
athletic scholarships, lower standards.”’
These were prophetic words, indeed.

As it had some six decades earlier,
football—and, to some extent, the entire
W&L athletic philosophy—experienced some
turmoil during those first few years follow-
ing the 1954 season. But out of the tur-
bulence came precisely the athletic
philosophy that Gaines had hoped for. Soon
W&L’s athletes again were sources of pride
both on and off the field. A delightful high
school coach named Lee McLaughlin took
over the football program in 1957 and in
three years, W&L entered its greatest era of
football success. From 1960 to 1962, the
Generals went 25-0-1 and were named the
best small college team in the nation after
1961’s 9-0 campaign. An article in Sports Il-

 

 

lustrated lauded W&L’s squad for being
‘«made up purely of students who play foot-
ball rather than football players who study.”’

The result of the ’54 decision was a
revitalized and recommitted athletic pro-
gram, made up of students who competed
purely for competition’s sake. And although
the last scholarship athletes—Dom Flora,
Frank Hoss, Dave Nichols, and Gary
McPherson—graduated in 1958, a new kind
of athlete was coming to W&L. These were
men like Karl ‘‘Skip’’ Rohnke, a three-sport
athlete whose javelin record still stands to-
day; Terry Fohs, a 5’8’’, 145-pound
linebacker, who had the perfect size and in-
tensity for small-college football; and na-
tionally competitive swimmers such as Elliott
Maynard and William Wildrick.

Soon W&L found company in its
amateur philosophy. In 1962, the Universi-
ty helped form the College Athletic Con-
ference with Centre, Southwestern (later
Rhodes), Sewanee, and Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis. The conference’s members
were dedicated to the idea that ‘‘all participa-
tion in sports shall be solely because of in-
terest in and enjoyment of the game.’’ W&L
won five CAC titles in basketball alone, all
coming under the direction of current basket-
ball coach Verne Canfield, who took a W&L
program that hadn’t seen a winner in quite
a while and turned it around in three years.
It has rarely slipped since, putting together
more than 400 wins for Canfield in 25
seasons and taking W&L to athletic heights
not seen since the 1930s and the teams of
Spessard and Iler.

W&L won the CAC’s all-sports cham-
pionship four times in the late ’60s and ear-

—_
— > ye
. —
- ~_ Saale,
- : . ~~
~ 4 . r ' eee
ee mqyekery ty Tue “$
et. pee ~ Een eee) ee ae
; - 7 pe ors a ee
vs. Sr 4 ae :
- PP one. i ae
- a si . i eo 7
> a “ s a ae —_—. a eo”
ri tas "he : a. ey tw
ny * ee” —

|

Fg
ee ee a

7

a “ ”
~ +

a a .
, " a ~
~ —— Ps
. oe . -
- el .

Members of the lacrosse team on the offensive during the 1972 season.

ly ’70s and captured CAC crowns in golf,
tennis, wrestling, swimming, and cross
country.

Still, hidden beneath the surface, there
may have been a desire to give it another go
against the big boys, to compete once more
with much larger schools. It was not realistic
in basketball or football anymore.
But by 1970, a new op-
portunity
emerged
with’ the
game of
lacrosse.
W&L, which
began playing
intercollegiate
lacrosse in :
1947, became a
national power in
the sport in the
’70s. The regional
nature of the game,
as well as its private
school foundation, ©

oe

ma =

played right into

W&L’s hands. Because yoni
most colleges did not we: hen Gli
yet offer lacrosse a old
scholarships, W&L once \\

again found itself on equal
footing with North Car-
olina, Virginia, and Mary- at one
land. Eight times from 1972 ~ ~~

to 1980, W&L went to the

NCAA Division I National

Tournament, while sticking diligently to its
ban on athletic scholarships. Tremendous
players like Sam Englehart, Don Carroll,

a
_— - na
as Y a -
tw ° oot Theater d
- Lo oe oe iv z
hn ha gp
ie aaa oe :

Satis.
ewe ae ll -
a. . - . oy
. — ae
c ~~’

   
      
      
   
 
   
  

abe
ie ~ » ,
nd a
7 ‘
A oe * vy
a " ~
- ;

Skip Lichtfuss, Ted Bauer, Skeet Chadwick,
Jeff Fritz, Rob Staugaitis, Jim Herbert, Tom
Keigler, Rob Lindsey, and Bob Clements—
led by Coach Jack Emmer—spurred W&L
to victories over North Carolina, Virginia,
and even venerable Johns Hopkins, and

gradually W&L’s reputation
“grew as that small school in
Virginia that plays lacrosse.

But times changed, and
so did the game—quickly

       

©. acrossroads much like the
>, one faced in 1954. Again,

, Washington and Lee
_. decided in favor of its
© students and its prin-
4.4 ciples. The University
»- “=> would not continue to
q fight a losing battle in
Division I. The Na-

tional Collegiate
Athletic Associa-
tion had created
Division III spe-

WW

cifically for
schools like
W&L, where

*<%) athletics be-
~ come part of
the educa-
tional process, rather
than consume it. W&L opted out

of Division I lacrosse following the 1986
season, and one year later, it returned its
lacrosse program to the national semifinals.
But the decision of 1986 was not nearly

as difficult as the one of 1954 had been.
W&L had helped
forge a new direc-
tion in college
athletics with that
earlier decision,
and the move in
1986 was a sort of
reaffirmation of
that choice. And
while there are no
Gator Bowls or
Southern Con-
ference champion-
ships anymore for
Washington and
Lee athletics, there
now are different
(and some would
say greater) laurels
being won by the
modern Generals.
sy Every year,
nr W&L can boast of
at least one

je ess ee lll” ee

 

 

Academic All-American or NCAA Post-
Graduate Scholarship Award winner. Over
the years, 15 W&L student-athletes have
received the postgraduate award, one of the
most prestigious offered by the NCAA.
That’s more awardees than Harvard, Cor-
nell, Virginia, or M.I.T. can claim.

The awards have come on the field, as
well. W&L has won 33 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference men’s championships
since it helped form the Virginia small col-
lege conference in 1976. No other ODAC
school has won more men’s championships.
The newest members of the W&L athletic
community have contributed admirably, too.
In four short years, Washington and Lee has
won three ODAC women’s championships.

Currently, W&L can claim All-
Americans on both the football and basket-
ball teams, nine on the men’s and women’s
swimming team, the school’s first-ever
wrestling All-American, a national champion
swimmer, and three men’s tennis All-
Americans. And just last year, nearly 120
years after the birth of the Beechenbrooks
and the Shoo Flies, W&L captured its first
national intercollegiate team championship
of any kind as the W&L men’s tennis team
rallied miraculously to win the NCAA Divi-
sion III national championship.

It has taken Washington and Lee 120
years to reach this happy athletic mixture.
In 1989, W&L’s student-athletes compete for
national honors, but they do so not at the
expense of their education. In his inaugural
address of 1960, President Fred C. Cole
spoke of the threat to intercollegiate
athletics, saying, ‘‘All too often, college
sports no longer serve the needs of the stu-
dent, but those of a multiplicity of other in-
terests. When athletics become apart from—
rather than a part of—a college’s educational
program, then the threat of loss of integrity
is very real indeed.’’

Throughout its athletic history, W&L has
not always steered clear of this threat. It has
never, however, completely succumbed to it.
And that is, to a large extent, why W&L’s
athletic program is healthy and sound today.

Bill Ide, ’62, aims for the basket during a
game with Bridgewater in the ’60-’61 season.

 

Despite football’s rocky beginnings at Washington and Lee, a substantial number of students turned out for the team in 1901.

40 W&L

 

The Generals’ Report

hen the first day of the NCAA
W Division III men’s tennis na-

tional championships ended with
a Washington and Lee defeat, it appeared
the Generals would leave the tournament
without a national title.

But by the close of the final day of com-
petition, W&L, the defending Division III
national champion, had seized not only one
national trophy, but two.

While W&L fell short in its bid for a sec-
ond consecutive national team champion-
ship, the Generals’ top two players, John
Morris and Bobby Matthews, brought home
the 1989 NCAA Division III championship
in both singles and doubles.

Morris, who was seeded second in the
64-man field, did not drop a set on his way
to becoming W&L’s first national singles
champion ever. In the semifinals, the lanky
junior from Memphis, Tenn., defeated third-
seeded Chad Andrews, who had led the
University of California-Santa Cruz to the
team championship earlier in the week.

In the final, Morris rallied to beat top-
seeded Larry Gewer of Washington College.
Morris won the match, the championship,
and a spot in the NCAA Division I national
championships by a score of 6-4, 2-6, 6-2.

In the doubles, Morris’s powerful serve
combined perfectly with the consistent
ground strokes of senior co-captain Mat-
thews to earn W&L its second national
championship of the tournament and its sec-
ond-ever NCAA Division III national
doubles prize. (The team of Ben Johns and
Stewart Jackson first won the title for W&L
back in 1977.)

Matthews, a four-time Division III All-
American, and Morris, a finalist in last year’s
doubles championship final, put together an
impressive 28-5 record throughout the
season. At the national tournament, held in
May in Kalamazoo, Mich., the Morris-
Matthews duo won every set, ultimately
defeating Paul Cross and Carl Swanson of
Pomona-Pitzer 6-2, 6-3 in the championship
final.

As a team, the Generals did not fare as
well at the tournament, losing to second-
seeded Swarthmore on the opening day. But
they rebounded in the consolation matches,
defeating Pomona-Pitzer 7-2 and the Univer-
sity of California-San Diego 6-3. That per-
formance earned W&L a fifth-place finish
in the tournament, marking the fourth con-
secutive year the Generals have made it into

 —_—_a

by Mike Stachura

 

<a

‘=

A Leda

 

John Morris (left) and Bobby Matthews

the top five at nationals.

In individual play at the tournament,
Matthews reached the quarterfinals in
singles, and the doubles team of senior co-
captain Robert Haley and sophomore Bill
Meadows advanced to the quarterfinals.
Morris and Matthews were named Division
III All-Americans in singles, and Morris,
Matthews, Haley, and Meadows earned
Division III All-American status in doubles.

The exciting finish at the tournament
capped off another fine season for the
Generals. W&L won its fifth straight Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion-
ship by sweeping all nine singles and doubles
flights for the third year in a row. Head
coach Gary Franke was named ODAC
Coach of the Year for the sixth time, and
Morris received ODAC Player of the Year
honors.

Men’s Lacrosse

If a single game can erase all the frustra-
tion and disappointment of an entire season,
then the W&L men’s lacrosse team couldn’t
have ended the year any better.

Facing one of the toughest schedules in
the nation (eight Division III opponents who
were nationally ranked at one time or
another and Division I national power
Virginia), W&L limped through its first 12
games, winning three and losing to such
strongmen as Ohio Wesleyan, Hampden-
Sydney, Roanoke, and Washington College.

When the 13th and final game rolled
around, the annual Lee-Jackson Lacrosse
Classic with Division I next-door neighbor
VMI, most local observers were predicting
a Keydet victory.

They should have bet on the Generals.

J Deis i
ae :
eS
ao
~~
ls
Pas Me
|

In a game that was every bit worthy of
the title of ‘‘Classic,’’ the Generals turned
in a stunning performance, rallying in over-
time to defeat the Keydets 10-9. The game
provided a gratifying finish to a difficult
season.

At the season’s onset the Generals look-
ed strong, holding Virginia in check before
losing 9-3 and then beating the College of
Wooster 13-3. But four straight losses
followed, including a heartbreaking overtime
defeat by Randolph-Macon. W&L then won
two of its next three before the exam break,
including a 9-8 victory over 14th-ranked
Middlebury. But rough losses to three of
Division III’s best teams—Hampden-
Sydney, Roanoke, and Washington
College—ensued after the break.

Senior co-captain John Ware, who led
the Generals in scoring for the third year in
a row and finished as W&L’s sixth-ranked
all-time scorer, got W&L on the board first
against VMI and went on to score two goals
and add two assists. But the hero of the game
was freshman Wiemi Douoguih, who con-
tributed four goals, including the game-
winner in overtime.

Ware and junior defenseman Reid
Campbell were named to the All-ODAC
team for the third year in a row, and senior
Mike Jones, along with Ware and Campbell,
was named to the U.S.I.L.A. All-Region
team.

Women’s Lacrosse

In just its first season as a varsity sport,
the Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
team finished in a five-way tie for third place
in the conference regular-season standings
and then got as far as the semifinals of the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
tournament.

W&L finished with a 7-8 overall record
and a 3-4 mark in the ODAC. The Generals
played their best lacrosse in the second half
of the season, capturing five of their seven
wins in the final three weeks of play. Just
two more goals would have given the team
a 9-6 mark and a winning season.

The Generals traveled to Hollins for the
first round of the ODAC tournament, where
they faced a squad that had beaten them by
a 5-4 count in Lexington two weeks earlier.
On the road, though, W&L rallied for a 7-5
victory to reach the ODAC semifinals, where
the team lost to Roanoke 14-10.

W&L 41

 

‘*It was an extremely exciting finish to the
season,’’ said head coach Janine Hathorn.
**We played hard, and we played with our
hearts. Even though we lost in the semifinals,
we had the feeling that we had played very
well. There is no doubt we have come an ex-
tremely long way this year.’’

Young players contributed most of the
winning statistics. Freshman Kim Bishop and
sophomore Shawn Wert combined for 49
goals and 14 assists. The Generals also got
33 points from sophomore Brooke Tinley
and 25 goals from sophomore Katy Richard.
Freshman goalie Erica Ingersoll finished with
a 57.1 save percentage and made a stagger-
ing 144 saves in her final 10 games.

Golf

Despite playing the majority of the year
without the use of its home course, which
had been damaged by contaminated
chemicals, the Washington and Lee golf
team turned in another excellent season.

W&L finished with a 13-3 overall record,
the 18th consecutive winning season for the
Generals’ golf program. It was W&L’s best
record since 1980. The Generals would have
traded that record, however, for an ODAC
title, but some blazing scores from their op-
ponents on the Generals’ home course left
W&L in fourth place at the ODAC
championships.

Showing great promise for the future,
freshman Jay McKnight put together a 73
and a 75 to finish in second place in the
ODAC individual standings. Meanwhile,
senior captain Pete Coleman concluded his
college career by receiving All-ODAC
recognition. It marked the ninth year in a
row W&L has placed a golfer on the all-
conference list.

**We’re a little disappointed, but that’s
a temporary thing,’’ said head coach Buck
Leslie, whose winning percentage at W&L
now stands at .848. ‘‘The scores we had at
ODACs were some of the best we’ve had in
a long time. I was very happy to see Pete
make the All-ODAC team. He’s given us
superb leadership this year.’’

Track and Field

Fighting injuries and bad luck
throughout the season, the Washington and
Lee men’s track team had to settle for a
second-place finish at the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference outdoor track cham-
pionships. It was the first time since 1986 that
WAL did not finish first in an ODAC track
championship.

W&L, which won its sixth straight
ODAC indoor title in February, went into
the outdoor championships hampered by in-
juries to many of its top performers. Despite

42 W&L

the odds, W&L nearly pulled off a miracle,
finishing just four points out of first place.

Leading the Generals were senior Jim
Ambrosini, who had been out for most of
the season but who managed to win the
discus nonetheless; senior tri-captain Scott
Williams, who won the 400 meters in spite
of a hamstring injury; and the makeshift
400-meter relay team of Williams,
sophomores Carl Gilbert and Erik Adkins,
and senior Tie Sosnowski.

**It was an outstanding performance,”’
said W&L head coach Norris Aldridge, who
earlier in the year recorded his 100th career
track and field coaching victory at W&L.
**We had a lot of adversity to overcome, and
we almost were able to do it. It was just one
of those years.”’

The W&L women’s track and field team
also had a fine season, winning its first meet
ever when it defeated Eastern Mennonite.
The team was led by captains Beth Stutz-
mann and Sarah Bolte.

Baseball

The W&L baseball team concluded the
spring with an 11-9 overall record and its first
winning season since 1972.

The Generals ended nearly 20 years of
frustration in fine style by finishing third in
the ODAC regular-season standings and
reaching the semifinals of the ODAC tour-
nament. W&L won eight of its last 10 games
before losing to eventual ODAC champion
Hampden-Sydney in the semifinals.

The Generals’ batting performance was
particularly impressive, the team averaging
.310 at bat and posting a .429 on-base
percentage.

Leading W&L were eight seniors: pit-
chers Chris Cunningham, David Holland,
and Mike Temple, catcher Eddie Klank, first
baseman Max Petzold, shortstop Harry
Halpert, third baseman Tony Waskiewicz,
and center fielder Tom Skeen.

Temple was 2-5 with a 4.56 ERA and 26
strikeouts, while Cunningham recorded a
save in W&L’s ODAC quarterfinal win over
Eastern Mennonite, and Holland had the
team’s third-best ERA at 3.68.

Klank was again among the leaders in hit-
ting, with a .351 average, 4 home runs, and
a .532 slugging percentage. Halpert and
Skeen also were strong at the plate, each
turning in a .346 batting average. Waskiewicz
was close behind with a .329 average in his
final season.

Women’s Tennis

After coming within half a point of the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship last year, the women’s tennis
players dominated the 1989 tournament as

a

no team ever has, capturing seven of the nine
singles and doubles flights on their way to
their first ODAC crown.

W&L beat out second-place Sweet Briar
by 23.5 points. Sophomore Jean Stroman
won at No. | singles and teamed with Col-
leen Quinn to win the No. 1 doubles crown,
as well. Stroman, who went on to compete
in the NCAA Division III national cham-
pionships, was named ODAC Player of the
Year for the second straight year. W&L also
got victories from sophomore Kelly Mar-
tone, freshmen Quinn and Muriel Foster,
senior Benny Savage, and the No. 2 doubles
team of Martone and sophomore Kathy
Leake. :

In just its fourth year of competition in
women’s tennis, W&L began to make its
presence felt on the national scene, too. The
Generals ended the year ranked in the top
20 in the nation in Division III.

Awards

A number of Washington and Lee
athletes received special recognition from the
University during the annual athletic awards
ceremony in May.

Seniors Elizabeth Miles of Louisville,
Ky., and Bobby Matthews of Miami shared
the Preston R. Brown Memorial Award as
W&L’s most valuable athletes.

Miles, a four-time Division III All-
American swimmer, was the first
Washington and Lee female athlete to earn
All-America status. She was also selected to
the All-ODAC team for four years and has
twice been named ODAC Swimmer of the
Year.

Matthews was named to the All-ODAC
men’s tennis team for four years and was
ODAC Player of the Year in 1988.

Senior Benny Savage of Piedmont,
Calif., received the Wink Glasgow Spirit and
Sportsmanship Award. A four-year letter-
winner on the women’s tennis team, she
boasted a 17-2 record this year, the best mark
on the squad.

The Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Awards went to Steve Momorella of Fairfax,
Va., and Nancy Mitchell of Atlanta. As a pit-
cher on the Generals’ winning baseball
squad, Momorella compiled a 6-0 record and
led the team in strikeouts and ERA.

Mitchell, who played defense on W&L’S
women’s soccer squad, was chosen for the
All-ODAC first team in the sport.

William C. (Burr) Datz, ’75, received the
R.E. (Chub) Yeakel Award for Outstanding
Service. Datz, former assistant University
proctor at W&L, is the campus minister at
St. Patrick’s Catholic Church in Lexington
and serves as unofficial chaplain to a number
of W&L teams.

 

 

 

Olson Wins National Title

Washington and Lee junior David Olson
took command midway through the cham-
pionship heat of the 200-yard backstroke at
the NCAA Division III national competition
in March to become W&L’s first individual
national champion swimmer since 1976.

Olson and seven teammates led W&L to
an eighth-place finish at the national meet,
equalling the best finish ever for a W&L
swimming team. W&L finished with 170
points, three points behind seventh-place
Denison and 16 points ahead of ninth-place
Johns Hopkins.

Olson’s time of 1:53.14 in the champion-
ship heat of the 200-meter backstroke broke
his own school record. He also finished in
the top eight in four other events: the
200-meter individual medley, the 100-meter
backstroke, the 200-meter medley relay, and
the 400-meter medley relay. For his efforts,
Olson, who was a six-time All-American at
the 1988 NCAA championships, was nam-
ed a five-time All-American at this year’s
event. Now a 12-time All-American, Olson
ranks second only to John Hudson on
W&L’s all-time swimming All-America list.

In addition to Olson’s stellar perfor-
mance, W&L got All-America swims from
senior Jeff Bercaw (100-meter butterfly),
junior Shawn Copeland (200-meter
breaststroke), and freshman Jay Smith
(100-meter freestyle). The All-America
200-meter and 400-meter medley relay teams
(which finished eighth and seventh, respec-
tively) consisted of Olson, Bercaw,
Copeland, and Smith.

The All-America 400-meter freestyle
relay team (finishing fifth) was made up of
Bercaw, Smith, senior captain Dave Reavy,
and freshman Chip Nordhoff, and the All-
America 800-meter freestyle relay team
(eighth) comprised Copeland, Reavy, Nord-
hoff, and sophomore Jim Dunlevy. Swim-
ming with the honorable mention All-
America 200-meter freestyle relay team were
Reavy, Bercaw, Smith, and Nordhoff. W&L
has never before had so many All-American
Swimmers in one year.

 

Spring Sports Scoreboard

Men’s Lacrosse (4-9)

Virginia 9, W&L 3

W&L 13, Wooster 3
Randolph-Macon 5, W&L 4 (2OT)
Franklin & Marshall 14, W&L 6
St. Lawrence 7, W&L 4

Ohio Wesleyan 10, W&L 4
W&L 10, Lynchburg 4
Gettysburg 7, W&L 5

W&L 9, Middlebury 8
Hampden-Sydney 15, W&L 3
Roanoke 11, W&L 3
Washington College 19, W&L 3
W&L 10, VMI 9 (OT)

Women’s Lacrosse (7-8)

Frostburg State 13, W&L 7
WA&L 13, Bridgewater 12
Roanoke 16, W&L 8

Mary Washington 10, W&L 3
W&L 18, Mary Baldwin 7
W&L 15, Goucher 8
Washington College 15, W&L 3

W&L 8, Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col. 4

Hollins 5, W&L 4

Sweet Briar 10, W&L 9
W&L 14, Randolph-Macon 9
W&L 16, Guilford 10
Lynchburg 15, W&L 2
*W&L 7, Hollins 5
*Roanoke 14, W&L 10
*ODAC Tournament

Baseball (11-9)

W&L 15, West Va. Tech 6
W&L 8, West Va. Tech 2
W&L 7, West Va. Tech 2
Bridgewater 15, W&L 1
W&L 9, Eastern Mennonite 4
Randolph-Macon 2, W&L 0
Bridgewater 14, W&L 2
Lynchburg 7, W&L 5
Shenandoah 2, W&L 1
Shenandoah 5, W&L 4

W&L 3, Emory & Henry 0
W&L 20, Emory & Henry 11
W&L 5, Lynchburg 3

W&L 6, Hampden-Sydney 4
W&L 8, Eastern Mennonite 6
Hampden-Sydney 7, W&L 4
W&L 22, St. Mary’s 1
Randolph-Macon 14, W&L 5
*W&L 18, Eastern Mennonite 8
*Hampden-Sydney 7, W&L 1
*ODAC Tournament

Men’s Track and Field (6-0)

W&L 113, Bridgewater 104
W&L 113, John Carroll 27
W&L 113, Eastern Mennonite 18
W&L 113, Roanoke 3

W&L 98, Apprentice School 64
W&L 98, Eastern Mennonite 19

Men’s Tennis (10-11)

Penn State 8, W&L 1
James Madison 6, W&L 3
Davidson 5, W&L 4
Furman 7, W&L 1

WA&L 8, Averett 1

William & Mary 5, W&L 3
W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

Va. Tech 5, W&L 4

W&L 5, Sewanee 4
Swarthmore 6, W&L 3
W&L 8, Hampden-Sydney 1
W&L 8, Va. Commonwealth 1
WA&L 6, Stetson 3

Rollins 5, W&L 4

W&L 6, Flagler 3

North Florida 6, W&L 3
lst—ODAC Championships
W&L 5, Emory 4

Hampton 8, W&L 1
*Swarthmore 5, W&L 3
*W&L 7, Pomona-Pitzer 2
*W&L 6, UC-San Diego 3
*NCAA Tournament (Sth)

Women’s Tennis (14-3)

W&L 5, Va. Commonwealth 4
Va. Tech 9, W&L 0

WA&L 9, Va. Wesleyan 0
W&L 9, Emory & Henry 0
W&L 9, Randolph-Macon 0
W&L 8, Hollins 0

W&L 9, Mary Baldwin 0
Hope 7, W&L 1

W&L 7, Bridgewater 2
W&L 9, Roanoke 0
Sewanee 7, W&L 2

W&L 6, Rust 1

W&L 9, Millsaps 0

W&L 5, Rhodes 4

W&L 7, Millsaps 2

W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

W&L 5, Sweet Briar 4
lst—ODAC Championships

Golf (13-3)

W&L 324, Roanoke 334
Bridgewater 320, W&L 324
Lynchburg 314, W&L 324
Randolph-Macon 310, W&L 324
W&L 301, Shenandoah 343
W&L 308, Roanoke 310

W&L 308, Lynchburg 316

W&L 308, Hampden-Sydney 317
W&L 308, Randolph-Macon 320
W&L 308, Bridgewater 324
W&L 315, Lynchburg 322

W&L 315, Randolph-Macon 324
W&L 315, Hampden-Sydney 333
W&L 315, Roanoke 335

W&L 315, Bridgewater 349
W&L 301, Shenandoah 327

 

 

W&L

43

THE REV. CHARLES W. LOWRY

JR. is teaching a spring term course
on the Constitution of the United States at Sand-
hills Community College in Southern Pines, N.C.
He lives in Pinehurst.

EMMETT W. MACCORKLE JR. of Portola
Valley, Calif., stays busy in retirement collecting
antique books. The collection includes a rebound,
1801 edition of Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the
State of Virginia and several volumes on the
history of the West.

DR. A. MCGEHEE HARVEY

served as chairman of the Johns
Hopkins Medical Institutions’ centennial celebra-
tion, which was held June 7-11 in Baltimore.
Harvey, who is retired from teaching and prac-
ticing, is Distinguished Service Professor of
Medicine at Johns Hopkins.

Having served the Boy Scouts of
America for 60 years, ISADORE E.
DATTEL of Ruleville, Miss., was named 1988
Eagle Scout Honoree of the Delta Area Council.
Dattel is national council representative for the

44 W&L

Delta Area Council and has served as a scout-
master, a member of the local executive board, and
committee member of two regions of the national
organization.

JACOB S. SELIGMAN retired in

September after selling Seligman’s
Inc., the family business which had operated in
Louisiana’s Morehouse County for 91 years. He
lives in Bastrop.

PARKE S. ROUSE JR., author of

a semiweekly column for the
Newport News (Va.) Daily Press and contributor
to several magazines, is scheduled later this year
to publish his 23rd book, Remembering
Williamsburg.

LAUREN D. WILD, an instructor in

the graphic arts program at Central
~:~ Piedmont Community Col-
lege in Charlotte, received a
1989 Winter Quarter Merit
Award from the college’s
president. His nominating
letter said of Wild, ‘‘Lauren
cares. He calls students at
home about class progress.
He is at every student club
party and event. He stays
after hours if students need him.”’

   

RALPH A. HAUSRATH has
written more than 60 articles and
essays on historical and marine subjects since retir-
ing from teaching school in 1977. He and his wife,
Matte, live in South New Berlin, on an eight-acre
hillside in the woodlands of central New York.

JOHN BARRIE JR. of South

Laguna, Calif., recently became
associated with Warren Fox Leasing in Costa
Mesa.

R. FRANCIS JOHNSON is retiring

in June as dean of the faculty and
professor of religious studies at Connecticut
College.

In a December ceremony in London,

the Horserace Writers Association
honored RICHARD L. DUCHOSSOIS, chairman
of Arlington Park Racetrack in Illinois, for his
contributions to international racing. Four days
later, the Stewards of the Jockey Club of Canada
presented a special Sovereign Award to Duchossois
at a ceremony in Toronto.

R. BRUCE QUAYLE of Wilmington, Del., is a
vice president of the Columbia Gas System.

JOSEPH P. MINGIOLI has retired

from 30 years of production and
development of medical instructional television.
He lives in central New York state.

FREDERICK C. SAGE has retired
from the Federal Health Care
Finance Administration and is devoting more time
to his family antique business in Boulder, Colo.

In May the Texas Medical Associa-

tion bestowed its Distinguished Ser-
vice Award on DR. JAMES H. SAMMONS, a
past president of TMA and current executive vice
president of the American Medical Association.
Sammons lives in Chicago.

Longtime Atlanta advertising and

public relations executive RICHARD
E. HODGES has been named vice chairman of the
Atlanta office of Earle Palmer Brown, the
marketing communications agency founded by
Earle Palmer Brown, ’44. Hodges was previously
associated with Noble Liller Neal, which EPB
recently acquired.

: bd ‘ &
gO de 4 ee
sg

gs ae? 4
¢ deh oe ee
ne 7§
el ri
ME Sat
ot

*

4, a
ae
eal. ofa ae

bie

a
ae,
aes Sa
oS"
ail te roa
eae .
a Py

4
~e'
ie

7
¥ i. a
ann
a

LK
rd
Pig

oe

~h
oy

w es 4 x
a i, 7 ae
paz

 

eos
- Ae

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also

available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms All black lacquer
$190.00 - Not including $170.00 - Not including
Freight charges Freight charges
(Freight charges available upon request.)

The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available in natural dark pine stain,
with crest in five colors, at the same price as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

Insuring
Your Life—
Assuring
W&L’s Future

Would you like to make a
significant gift to W&L but feel
your current responsibilities—
mortgages, auto loans, saving for
your children’s education—leave
little to return to W&L in the form
of a major gift?

LIFETIME INSURANCE
might be the answer. By making
five relatively modest annual
premium payments through this
program, you can complete a ful-
ly paid-up life insurance policy of
which the University is both owner
and beneficiary. Since W&L owns
the policy and receives the pro-
ceeds upon your death, the five
premium payments are tax-
deductible as charitable donations.

The table below reveals the at-
tractiveness of the rates and the
rather sizeable benefactions that
eventually will come to the
University.

Age $25,000 $50,000 $100,000

25 $223 $365 $648
30 86 $245 $411 $743
35 $296 $513 $947
40 $375 $647 $1,272
45 $469 $867 $1,661

For example, with five annual
gifts of $513, a 35-year-old would
create an eventual benefaction or
endowment of $50,000.

Best of all, you may specify the
ultimate use of your gift. You
might establish a scholarship fund
or create a research fellowship.

By insuring your own life
through this program, you most
certainly assure a brighter and
stronger future for Washington
and Lee.

To learn more about the
Lifetime Insurance Program, call
the Development Office at (703)
463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

64 wit
Tx
67
Ts:
69

A

Sellers Named Montgomery Citizen of the Year

Philip A. Sellers, ’43, was the 1988 recipient of the Citizen of the Year Award,
given by the Montgomery, Ala., Advertiser and Alabama Journal.

The award is presented to ‘‘that person who best exemplifies an inspiring level
of civic leadership in generating a spirit of conviction, purpose, and confidence in
the nurturing of the greater Montgomery area.”’

‘*Few good things have happened in Montgomery that have not deeply involved
Philip Allen Sellers,’’ the award citation reads. ‘‘Both as a dynamic leader and as
a dedicated foot soldier, he has served on the front lines of helping his native city
to advance. No job is too large or too small for him, and his energy and drive are
boundless on behalf of the community.”’

Sellers is president of Philip A. Sellers & Co. Inc., an investment banking firm
in his native city of Montgomery. He has served as president of the Montgomery
Area United Way, Chamber of Commerce, and Rotary Club; a trustee of Montgomery
Academy and Huntingdon College; and chairman of the Alabama Commission on
Higher Education. He is also chairman of the Alabama Shakespeare Festival and
a member of the board of overseers of Sweet Briar College.

 

BRIAN C. DONNELLY is manager
of casualty claims for Pepsi-Cola Co.
in Somers, N.Y. He and his wife, Brenda, live in
Rockaway, N.J., with their two daughters, Erin

and Kelly.

DAVID W. OLSON is vice president of Rifkind,
Pondel & Parsons, a Los Angeles-based corporate
and investor relations firm. He lives in Redondo
Beach, Calif.

NIMROD W. E. LONG III is presi-

dent of Nimrod Long & Associates
Inc., a landscape architectural firm in Bir-
mingham, Ala.

ROBERT J. WESTERMAN
is assistant general counsel in
Bethlehem Steel Corp.’s law
department in Bethlehem,
Pa. He is a member of the
labor relations section of the
American Bar Association.

 

VIRGIL O. BARNARD III is the
owner of ESI Management Inc., a
management consulting firm in Arlington, Texas,
with more than 100 employees. He and his wife,
Tina, have two children, Kate, 10, and Virgil IV, 6.

DOUGLAS C. CHASE JR., a columnist for Lex-
ington, Va.’s, News-Gazette, won two first-place
awards in sportswriting at the Virginia Press
Association’s annual meeting in February. One
award was for selected columns he wrote for the
newspaper, the other for a feature story. Chase
is director of the Rockbridge Area Recreation
Association.

ROBERT A. DOLL is president of Doll Enter-
prises, a wholesale distributor for Armstrong
World Industries in Kentucky, Indiana, and II-
linois. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

RALPH E. (REG) GARNER is assistant secretary-
treasurer of T. W. Garner Food Co. in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

R. PALMER TRICE II is associate minister of
Forest Hill Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. He
and his wife, Lynne, have two daughters, Ashley,
5, and Kathryn, 2.

ROBERT K. BAILEY III, assistant

vice president and area manager for
Union Bank and Trust in Fredericksburg, Va., is
responsible for three offices in that city.

JOSEPH H. DENNIS of Wilmington, Ohio, is
assistant public defender for Clinton County.

ROBERT C. FLOYD of Atlanta is a systems con-
sultant with Unisys Corp. He and his wife, Betsy,
live in Tucker with their son, Michael, 2.

ROBERT H. F. JONES operates Bob Jones
Photography in Dallas, where he lives with his
wife, Carolyn.

M. ALEXANDER KEMPE is owner and presi-
dent of Martinair Inc., the Richmond aircraft
management and charter company which grossed
more than $1 million last year. Kempe founded
the company in 1986.

The vice president and general manager of Lawler
Ballard Advertising’s Richmond office, JOHN D.
KILLPACK, has been promoted to corporate
Senior vice president. He lives in Norfolk, Va.

 

Colonnade at Washington and Lee.

him about where to find Martha.’’

boy in rural India.

he hears ‘‘Dixie’’ played.

 

Remember, You Heard It Here First

Sometimes you just can’t trust what you read.

Gary W. Adams, ’77, principal consultant to the Joint Legislative Budget Com-
mittee of the California Legislature, was delighted to see a feature article in the
travel section of the Sacramento Bee several months ago pertaining to George
Washington’s home, Mount Vernon. Adams was startled, however, to examine
the photograph that accompanied the story. While a caption identified the photo’s
subject as Mount Vernon, there was no mistaking the familiar architecture of the

‘*If the ‘Father of our Country’ were actually to return,’’ Adams wrote to the
Bee’s editor, ‘‘I think he would have enough to worry about without confusing

And on the other side of the Atlantic, R. Christopher Gammon, ’81, learned
from a London tabloid that Robert E. Lee has been reincarnated in a 2-year-old

The toddler speaks with a Southern accent, the paper reports, frequently in-
cludes the word ‘‘y’all’’ in his conversation, and even stands at attention when

 

 

ANTHONY J. PARRILLO, director of the New
Jersey Division of Gambling Enforcement, has
been named executive assistant attorney general
for the state. He joined the department as a deputy
attorney general in 1977.

Having completed a fellowship in cardiovascular
anesthesia, DR. STEPHEN K. PATTESON is
now on the faculty and staff at the University of
Tennessee Medical Center at Knoxville. He and
his wife, Sharon, have a daughter, Laura, 1.

WILLIAM B. WELLS III recently began his sec-
ond year of a two-year assignment as market
specialist for Hoechst A.G. in Wiesbaden, West
Germany. He previously worked for Hoechst
Celanese Corp.’s film division in Greer, S.C.

GREGORY J. MULDOON is

employed with Browning-Ferris In-
dustries in Houston, where he lives with his wife,
Kappa, and their two children, Lauren Patricia and
Devin Clark.

For the past two years, THE REV.

HOFFMAN PF. (TAB) BROWN III
has preached at Shenandoah College and Conser-
vatory’s annual worship service celebrating the life
of Martin Luther King Jr. Both times, Brown was
invited by THE REV. JOHN D. COPENHAVER
JR., ’71, Shenandoah’s chaplain and assistant pro-
fessor of religion. Brown is pastor of Main Street
Baptist Church in Smithfield, Va.

After sifting through 600 manuscripts of hopeful
playwrights, WILLIAM D. CANTLER II, general
manager of the Manhattan Class Company in New
York City, helped select a festival of six one-act
plays that were performed in February, March,
and April at the Nat Horne Theater on Theater
Row. Cantler categorized the plays as ‘‘dark com-
edy.”’

FRANK K. TURNER JR. is vice president of Mer-
cantile Safe Deposit and Trust Co. in Baltimore.

KENNETH S. VOELKER is vice president and
chief operating officer of Mighty Distributing
System of America Inc. in Atlanta.

JOHN A. HOLLINGER, an

employee of Hollinger Corp.’s ar-
chival products factory in Fredericksburg, Va., is
directing a community production of Steambath.
He had a feature role in the play when it ran dur-
ing the University Theatre’s 1974-75 season. He
and his wife, Patricia, live in Fredericksburg.

T. TERRY SHADRICK III is president of H. W.
Brown Florist Inc., the Danville, Va., family
business which has been in operation since 1883.

DR. CHARLES E. D’AURIA is a

family practitioner in the truest sense
of the word: He practices osteopathic medicine
with both his wife, Mary, and his father-in-law in
Hermitage, Pa. D’Auria has two children,
Stephen, 3, and Jennifer, who is not quite 1.

RICHARD F. HUCK III became a partner of the
St. Louis law firm of Evans & Dixon on Jan. 1.

JOHN H. NORBERG has established his own
business in Santa Ana, Calif. Standard Investment
Chartered Inc. is a regional brokerage and advisory
firm which specializes in high-value, rarely trad-
ed securities and middle-market investment bank-
ing services. Norberg had been associated with
Diehl & Co., a Southern California merchant
banking group. He lives in Newport Beach.

LLOYD E. SPEAR, commonwealth’s attorney for
Kentucky’s 20th Judicial Circuit, was appointed
a member of the state attorney general’s DUI Task
Force. He lives in Vanceburg with his wife, Court-
ney, and their sons, Jay and Chad.

WILLIAM B. TUCKER, having earned a degree
in May from the University of Dubuque
Theological Seminary, is one step closer to his or-
dination in the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. He
holds another degree from Gordon-Conwell
Theological Seminary and was a contributor to
four books in the Serendipity New Testament
Study Bible (Zondervan Press). He lives in Dubu-
que with his wife, Marty Daniel, and two
daughters, Martha Lyn, 6, and Abbie, 4.

W&L 47

 

 

Michael Miley’s view of House Mountain

A group of concerned citizens has mounted an effort to save one of Rockbridge
County’s most visible and most beloved landmarks—House Mountain.

Organized by Lexington attorney Laurence A. Mann, ’70, the Save House Moun-
tain Committee has begun an effort to raise $325,000 for the purchase of the twin
peaks west of Lexington. The committee plans to preserve the natural habitat of the
900-plus acre tract and will continue to make the peaks available for traditional uses
such as hiking, hunting, bird-watching, and other activities. Honorary cochairmen
for the committee are Robert E.R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L, former president of Washington
and Lee, and Gen. George R.E. Shell, former superintendent at the Virginia Military

Institute.

purchase of the property.

463-7119.

 

**Anyone who has spent time in Lexington has come to love House Mountain,”’
Mann says. ‘‘Michael Miley, Gen. Lee’s photographer, called the mountain ‘Lex-
ington’s Mount Fujiyama.’ With the pressure to develop land in Rockbridge County
growing at an unprecedented rate, it is important that we preserve House Mountain
for those who have enjoyed its beauty in the past, and for future generations.’’

The Save House Mountain Committee has been joined in its efforts by the
Rockbridge Area Conservation Council and the Virginia Outdoors Foundation. At
press time, more than $65,000 had been raised toward the purchase, and a purchase
agreement had been signed. The committee has set a closing date of July 4 for the

More information about the Save House Mountain Committee may be obtained
by contacting Mann at 5 West Washington Street, Lexington, Va. 24450, (703)

 

 

WILLIAM M. WEBSTER IV, president of the
restaurant chain Carabo Inc., is chairman of the
Greenville County Democratic Party in South
Carolina.

DAVID P. BLACKWOOD is an at-

torney in the Washington, D.C., law
firm of Poloryles & Greenstein. He and his wife,
Lee, live in Olney, Md., with their son, Patrick
Francis.

ANGUS E. FINNEY of Towson, Md., specializes
in construction and bankruptcy litigation as an
associate with the law firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes
& Shriver. He is restoring an antique Chesapeake
Bay oyster boat in his spare time.

Having earned a CPM degree from De Paul
University in Chicago a year ago, ROBERT E.
HUMMEL is now second vice president-director
of purchasing and administration of First Midwest
Bank in Chicago’s northern suburbs.

48 W&L

HERBERT B. SPRING is employed as a policy
analyst in the department of foreign policy and
defense studies at The Heritage Foundation in
Washington, D.C. He specializes in issues related
to the Strategic Defense Initiative at the research
institute. Spring lives in the city with his wife,
Michelle.

Graphic artist BRUCE W. WHIPPLE, marketing
and business development manager for Hanbury,
Evans, Newill, Vlattas & Co. of Norfolk, Va.,
designed this year’s Fancy Dress T-shirts, cups,
and other souvenirs for W&L’s Student Activities
Board. Whipple has also done design work for the
Historic Preservation Foundation of North
Carolina, Henry Dreyfuss Associates of New
York, and Public Television for North Carolina.

MARK E. LOCKHART was recent-
ly promoted to the rank of captain
in the U.S. Army Reserves and awarded the Ar-

my Achievement Medal. He is a sales represen-
tative for Fisher Scientific and lives in Kennewick,
Wash.

Hagerstown, Md., attorney D. BRUCE POOLE
is serving his first term in the Maryland House of
Delegates. The Democratic delegate is the youngest
member of the General Assembly.

EDWARD T. TAYLOR II of Charlotte is direc-
tor of leasing for Hesta Properties Inc., the Swiss
company which is developing a 23-story office
tower and 19-story hotel and residential con-
dominium development in downtown Charlotte.

CHARLES J. VAN HORN is employed with
Oliver H. Van Horn Co. in New Orleans. He and
his wife, Kathleen Favrot, have two children,
Katie, 4, and James, 1.

DR. DANIEL V. YOUNG is a fellow in internal
medicine at Georgetown University. In July he
plans to enter the private practice of internal
medicine in Washington, D.C., where he lives with
his wife, Monica.

CAPT. DOUGLAS R. LINTON III

is a communications systems control
officer for the 93rd Signal Brigade in Ludwigsburg,
West Germany, where he is stationed with his wife,
Debbie.

EDMUND P. PERRY has left the practice of law
and become vice president for operations of
BioCryst, a biopharmaceutical company in Bir-
mingham, Ala.

H. LEE WOOSLEY is in the investment banking

unit at First American Corp. in Nashville, Tenn. _

WILLIAM M. BELL III is manag- —
ing and leasing commercial —
warehouse, retail, and office space in the Mem-

phis, Tenn., area with a family firm, Bell Proper- i.

ties Inc. He and his wife, Betsy, have one son,
William Milton IV, 1.

Having earned a law degree from the University
of Florida in December, KRAIG A. CONN is ©
employed with the Tallahassee city attorney’s
office. ig

THOMAS A. HARRISON is editor of Allied —
News, the weekly newspaper of Grove City, Pa.
He is a board member of the Greenville (Pa.) Area
Adult Literacy Council and is active with the
Greenville Knights of Columbus and Greenville

Moose. Harrison is also board vice president of 4

Strayhaven Inc. He and his wife, Laurie, have two 4
children.

MARVIN H. DUKES III practices —
law with the Beaufort, S.C., firm of
Dowling, Sanders, Dukes, Svalina & Williams.

JAMES M. (JAY) FAULKNER III, currently —
employed with The Russell Group, a Dallas com-
mercial real estate firm, will enter law schoolin
the fall.

SCOTT J. FITZGERALD specializes in litigation
and banking law as an associate with the Wayne,
N.J., law firm of Williams, Caliri, Miller & Otley.
He lives in Clifton.

DAVID R. HARCUS graduated in May from
Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business with
a master of business administration degree.

 

A Whale of a Prize

Charles Mason, ’84, a former staff photographer for the Alumni Magazine,
has won a prestigious international award for his pictures of the famous rescue
mission to free trapped whales in Alaska last fall.

Mason, a photo editor of the Fairbanks Daily News-Miner, received the Oskar
Barnack Award of the World Press Photo Foundation. The award, which is the

second highest given by the organization, carries with it a cash prize of 10,000
Dutch florin (about $4,500) and a trip to Amsterdam.

Mason’s photos were chosen from 10,197 entries submitted by 1,287 press
photographers from 62 nations. The award is given for the picture story that best
illustrates the relationship between humanity and the environment. Mason also
received second-place honors in the nature series category.

The award-winning photos appeared in both Time and Life magazines, as well
as the Daily News-Miner.

 

co

Send Some News for Class Notes

Send to: Class Notes
W&L Alumni Magazine ¢ Reid Hall
Washington and Lee University ¢ Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Marriages

SHENANDOAH

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

‘*Full of fictional, critical, poetic and biographical splendor.”’
—The New York Times Book Review

‘‘Well burnished excellence, long maintained.’”’
— Kirkus Reviews

‘*A showcase for exceptional writing?’
— The Washington Post

AMONG OUR PAST CONTRIBUTORS:

Alice Adams John Hersey Reynolds Price
W. H. Auden Daniel Hoffman Stephen Spender
Ann Beattie William Hoffman Jean Stafford
John Berrymann Richard Howard Wallace Stevens
Kelly Cherry Robert Lowell Peter Taylor

e. €. cummings Thomas McGuane John Updike
Philip Dacey Howard Nemerov Eudora Welty
James Dickey Joyce Carol Oates Richard Wilbur
William Faulkner Flannery O’Connor Marguerite Yourcenar
Jonathan Galassi Katherine Anne Porter

Seamus Heaney Ezra Pound

SHENANDOAH, Box 722, Lexinctron, Va. 24450

Name

Address

{RRA AAR RA A A A A A RR ee

 
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

we

— 2 ee ek ee OE Ee oe Ee Ee OE Ee Ee EV Ee Ee Eg Oe

Se ieee Sern “Glee Geen “lnc ee ee ne ne ee ee ee ne le ie i ee “Sn ne Se Ne ee Qe Se Se Sheet Stee Set

UW)
W
Wy
UW)
Wy
Wy
UW)
W
W)
Wy
UW
U))
Wy
UW
W
TY
1)
Ty
ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Ty
Wy
W
Wy
UW)
UW)

  

Ws Nt er re ile eS MY
‘ SINGLE IssuE: $3.50 Susscriptrion: $11.00 A YEAR y
W ($14.00 rorEIGN) UW)
W 0)
we eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ee Coe eee eee ee Be ee ee Ss

Ne tt tt tt tt ht SS SSS SI

re

Pi

 

MR. AND MRS. JAMES H. FLIPPEN III, ’79,
a son, James Howard IV, on Aug. 3, 1988. He
joined a sister, Kathryn Elizabeth, 2. Flippen is
associated with the Portsmouth, Va., law firm of
Cooper & Davis. The family lives in Norfolk.

RICHARD P. GODDARD, ’79L, and Anne
Unverzagt, a daughter, Margaret Unverzagt, on
March 26, 1989. She joined a brother, Tug, 8, and
sisters Kate, 5, and Libby, 2. The family lives in
Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

MR. AND MRS. HARVEY GRANGER IV,
'79L, ason, Andrew Hunting, on Nov. 11, 1988.
Granger is vice president and general counsel at
Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. STAFFORD, ’79, a
daughter, Meredith Mehard, in February 1989.
Stafford is employed with Kerr Engineered Sales
Co. in Pittsburgh.

MR. AND MRS. SCOTT A. STOREY, ’79L, a
third son, Jason William, on June 27, 1988. Storey
is a partner in the Lansing, Mich., law firm of
Foster, Swift, Collins & Coey.

MR. AND MRS. ABNEY S. BOXLEY III, ’80,
a son, Abney Saunders IV (Buck), on Jan. 27,
1989. The family lives in Roanoke.

MR. AND MRS. GUY SMITH BROSSY, ’80, a
second daughter, Elizabeth Eccleshall, on Sept. 20,
1988. Brossy is vice president, corporate finance,
at Smith Barney Harris Upham Co. in New York
City. The family lives in East Haddam, Conn.

CAPT. AND MRS. MARK A. KINNIBURGH,
’80, a daughter, Virginia Anne, on June 20, 1988,
in Madison, Wis.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES B. STROME III,
’80, a daughter, Nicole Marie, on Dec. 31, 1988.
The family lives in Hartsdale, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. R. CHRISTOPHER GAM-
MON, ’81, a daughter, Anne Sydnor, on Jan. 9,
1989, in London, where Gammon is vice president
in the representative offices of Wachovia Bank and
Trust Co.

MR. AND MRS. T. LEE LARIMORE, ’81, twin
daughters, Ellen Leigh and Emily Lynne, on Feb.
13, 1989. The family lives in Fort Worth, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. EDWIN S. (WIN) RYAN JR.,
81, a son, Robert, in August 1988. Ryan is
employed with Cross Timbers Oil Co. in Fort
Worth, Texas.

ROBERT WATT HAYNES, ’82, and Kimberly
Fetty, a son, Wesley Fetty Haynes, on July 1, 1988.
Haynes, an analytical chemist with Union Carbide
Corp. in Charleston, W.Va., supervises the
ethylene oxide catalyst laboratory at Carbide’s In-
Stitute plant.

MR. AND MRS. DUSTIN D. NELSON, ’82L,
a son, Dustin DeWeese Jr., on March 27, 1989.
He joined a sister, Sophie, 2. The family lives in
Jamestown, N.Y.

JULIA HARLIN TILLOU, ’82L, and KEN-
NETH B. TILLOU, ’82L, a son, Thomas Edward,
On Feb. 9, 1989. He joined a brother, John, 2. The
family lives in Norfolk.

MR. AND MRS. DONALD W. KELLERMAN
JR., ’83, a daughter, Frances Anne, on Feb. 10,
1989. The family lives in Sparks, Md.

MR. AND MRS. G. AMORY LECUYER, ’83,
a daughter, Madeline, on Aug. 9, 1988. LeCuyer

is a division manager for York Cos., a family-
owned corporation involved in petroleum. The
LeCuyers live in Hampton, Va.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS J. WOODSON, ’83,
ason, Douglas James (Jay) Jr., on Feb. 16, 1989.
He joined a sister, Bailey, 3. Woodson is vice presi-
dent of commercial retail with Henry S.
Miller/Grubb & Ellis in Fort Worth, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL N. FARQUHARSON,
’84, a daughter, Virginia Michele, on Feb. 25,
1989. The family lives in Ellicott City, Md. Far-
quharson is an associate with the Baltimore firm
of Semmes, Bowen & Semmes.

MR. AND MRS. BARRY J. GAINEY, ’84L, a
son, Thomas Patrick, on March 14, 1989. Gainey
is an associate with Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz,
Edelman, & Dicker in New York City, and the
family lives in Ridgewood, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. MATTHEW G. THOMPSON
JR., ’84, a son, Matthew Gilmour III, on Sept.
27, 1988. The family lives in Charlottesville.

1ST LT. AND MRS. SCOTT T. WATERMAN,
85, a son, Scott Thomas Jr. (Tommy), on Jan.
2, 1989. The family lives in Fayetteville, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. GREGORY VAN ZANT, ’87L,
a daughter, Elisabeth Ashley, on April 12, 1988.
Van Zant practices law privately in Hillsboro,
Ohio.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

THE HON. HENRY LESTER HOOKER, ’09L,
a 48-year commissioner of the State Corporation
Commission in Richmond, died Aug. 25, 1988.
Born on April 25, 1885, he was believed to be the
oldest living law alumnus of Washington and Lee.
After earning his law degree from W&L, he
became associated with the law firm of Hooker
& Hooker as a partner. In 1922 he became special
assistant to the attorney general of Virginia. After
serving two years, he became a member of the
State Corporation Commission. During World
War I, he was a gubernatorial appointee to the
legal advisory board of Patrick County. He was
a former president of Southeastern Association of
Railroad and Utilities Commissioners, former
president of the National Association of Railroad
and Utilities Commissioners, and a former chair-
man of the legislation committee of the NARUC.
Hooker retired in 1971.

BLAIR GRIGSBY ALDRIDGE, ’13, of Long
Beach, Calif., died March 19, 1989. After attend-

ing W&L for three years, he continued his educa- ©

tion at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
where he earned a bachelor’s degree. During his
career in construction engineering, he was
employed with Union Oil Co. and later Fluor
Corp. in Los Angeles.

HENRY FLETCHER (HANK) MARTIN, ’15L,
an attorney and longtime resident of Atlantic
Beach, Fla., died Sept. 28, 1988. After earning his
law degree from W&L, he returned home to
Florida to open his legal practice. He joined the
U.S. Army as a second lieutenant in 1917 and was
awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his
actions in France. He retired from the Army in
1924 with the rank of captain and returned to
Jacksonville, Fla., where he became the first chief

of the Veterans Administration for the state of
Florida. After several years with the VA, he re-
sumed his law career with Cooper, Knight, Adair,
Cooper & Osborne and practiced until the late
1950s. He retired from the bar in 1980.

ALFRED CARTER CRYMBLE, ’18, a retired
consulting engineer who spent 29 years with Ten-
nessee Eastman Co., died Feb. 8, 1989, at his home
in Kingsport, Tenn. After two years of study at
W&L, he attended Carnegie Institute of
Technology and later Georgia School of
Technology, where he earned a degree in electrical
engineering in 1919. He worked for General Elec-
tric Co. for four years before spending 10 years
in Bristol, Va., working in the area of electrical
contracting and engineering. In 1933 he joined
Tennessee Eastman in Kingsport and served in
various capacities before retiring in 1962. He then
became an engineering consultant and a member
of the Tennessee State Board of Architectural and
Engineering Examiners. He retired a second time
in 1975. During his career, he served 18 years on
the Tri-City Airport Commission and held various
offices for the Bristol Civitan and Rotary Clubs
of Kingsport. He had also been a deacon and elder
of First Presbyterian Church in Kingsport.

TURNER RICE JR., ’24, retired vice president
and trust officer of Birmingham Trust National
Bank in Alabama, died March 25, 1989. After
earning his degree from W&L, he spent three years
with First National Bank of Florence before
becoming a national bank examiner with the
Comptroller of the Currency. In 1941 he joined
First National Bank of Mobile, where he was vice
president and trust officer. During his career, Rice
served two terms as president of the trust division
of the Alabama Bankers Association. He was a
former president of the Society of the War of 1812
in Alabama and a member of the Sons of the
Revolution. He had been active with the Alabama
Symphony Association, the Birmingham Festival
of Arts Association, and the Birmingham Opera
Association. Rice was a member of Independent
Presbyterian Church.

HAROLD OGDEN SMITH JR., ’27, retired ex-
ecutive director of the Food Merchandisers of
America, died Jan. 15, 1989. He lived in German-
town, Md. Between 1925 and 1933, he was
employed in the Oakland Motor Car Division of
General Motors Corp. He then joined Premier
Signal Corp. as vice president. During World War
II, he served as director of the miscellaneous prod-
ucts division of the War Surplus Administration.
He then worked as manager of the Washington,
D.C., office of National Confectioners’ Associa-
tion Inc. for two years before becoming chief ex-
ecutive officer of U.S. Wholesale Grocers’
Association Inc. He served in that capacity from
1947 until 1969, when he joined Food Merchan-
disers of America. During his career, he was also
chief executive officer of Mite-T-Mart, a conve-
nience store chain in the southeastern United
States. He retired in 1977. He was a member of
the Sons of the Cincinnati, the Sons of the
American Revolution, and the American Society
of Association Executives. Smith had been a
deacon of the Fourth Presbyterian Church of
Bethesda.

DR. HERBERT WHITING VIRGIN JR., ’27, a
retired orthopedic surgeon who lived in Coconut
Grove, Fla., for 46 years, died Jan. 11, 1989.
Virgin attended W&L for one year and then enroll-
ed at Northwestern University, where he earned

Wie 28

his medical degree in 1931. After medical school,
he spent more than four years in orthopedic
surgery training at various hospitals, including
serving as chief resident of orthopedic surgery at
Shriners’ Hospital for Crippled Children in Il-
linois. In 1940 he moved to Florida, first to Pen-
sacola, where he was chief of staff of Florida
Crippled Children’s Convalescent Home and also
on the staff of Pensacola General Hospital and
West Florida Hospital for Infantile Paralysis. He
maintained a private practice as well. When he
moved to Miami in 1942, Virgin became chief of
orthopedic surgery at St. Francis Hospital. He
served as chief of orthopedic surgery at Mount
Sinai Hospital from 1952 to 1955 and from 1952
to 1970 served in the same capacity at Mercy
Hospital. He remained on the Mercy Hospital staff
until retiring in 1983. Virgin was founder of the
Florida Orthopedic Society and a founder of Doc-
tor’s Hospital in Coral Gables. He also helped to
establish Mount Sinai Medical Center and Mercy
Hospital. He invented nine major orthopedic
devices. Active in sports medicine, he served as
team physician for the Miami Dolphins between
1966 and 1983 and also was physician for other
professional sports teams. As a sailor, Virgin raced
for more than 60 years and won numerous awards.
He was a founding member of Key Biscayne Yacht
Club and Coral Reef Yacht Club.

ADOLPHUS LOWE LUNSFORD, ’29, who
established Lunsford Farm Supply Co. in
Brookneal, Va., died Feb. 15, 1989. After study-
ing commerce at W&L for two years, he worked
two years in farm operation and as a bank teller.
In 1931 he joined the Charlottesville, Va.-based
Monticello Dairy as a cream buyer in Brookneal.
He also worked as a service station operator be-
tween 1933 and 1942. He established his farm sup-
plies and poultry feeding operations in 1945 while
maintaining his tie with Monticello Dairy. Between
1946 and 1968, Lunsford served on the Brookneal
Town Council (with the exception of one term).
The Council selected him vice mayor or president
of the Council for a number of terms. He was a
charter member of Brookneal Lions Club.

SHUFORD REINHARDT NICHOLS, ’30,
founder and chairman of Southern Compress Co.
of Little Rock, Ark., died March 27, 1989. After
earning his bachelor’s degree from W&L, he at-
tended the Harvard School of Business Ad-
ministration and then returned to his hometown
of Des Arc, Ark., where he established his cotton
business. Nichols was chairman of the board of
Farmers and Merchants Bank in Des Arc. He was
a former board member of St. Louis Federal
Reserve Bank and a former president of the Na-
tional Cotton Compress and Cotton Warehouse
Association. He had served as a trustee of Arkan-
sas College and was a recipient of the Arkansas
College Medal. A former president of the
Arkansas-Oklahoma Presbyterian Foundation, he
was active with the Des Arc Presbyterian Church.

REDMOND BUNN GAUTIER JR., ’31, retired
attorney and partner who had served as a Florida
state senator in the late 1940s and early 1950s, died
Feb. 6, 1989. After studying law at W&L for two
years, he was admitted to the Dade County (Fla.)
Bar in 1932 and joined the practice of Worley,
Gautier & Cannon, now Smathers & Thompson.
During World War II, he served in the U.S. Naval
Air Corps as a lieutenant. He returned to Miami
after the war to resume the practice of law. His
career in the Florida legislature began before the
war when in 1942 he was elected to his first Florida
House term as a representative from Dade Coun-

52: Wal

ty. He served two terms in the House and two
terms in the Senate and is credited with freeing
Dade County officials from the state legislature’s
control. After Gautier’s intervention, monies
allocated for the state’s first medical school went
to the University of Miami. In May 1972 Gautier
was made an honorary alumnus of the school.
During his career, he served as chairman of the
board of trustees of the University of Miami. He
also was chairman of the board of Greater Miami
Federal Savings & Loan Association and had serv-
ed as a director of City National Bank in Miami.
He was a member of the Kiwanis Club of Miami
and of the Orange Bowl Committee.

THE HON. HENRY MARTIN BANDY JR.,
’33L, retired judge for General District Court No.
33 of the Commonwealth of Virginia, died Feb.
17, 1989. After earning his W&L law degree, Ban-
dy joined his father in the practice of law under
the name Bandy & Bandy in Norton, Va. In 1942,
he joined the U.S. Navy and was discharged in
1945 as a lieutenant commander. Bandy resumed
his law career in Norton after the war. In 1954 he
was appointed county judge of Wise County and
the City of Norton and later appointed general
district court judge. He retired in 1976 after 19
years on the bench. During his career, he was vice
president of the Virginia Association of District
Court Judges and was president-elect of the
Virginia Trial Lawyers’ Association when he
retired. Bandy served as president of the Norton
Kiwanis Club and was a member of the First Bap-
tist Church of Norton.

WILLIAM ALSTON WILLIAMSON, ’33, retired
executive of Durr-Fillanen Medical Inc. of Mont-
gomery, Ala., died Feb. 21, 1989. He retired from
the firm in 1982 after 45 years of employment.

KENNETH REESE COLE, ’34, retired account-
ing manager for International Telephone &
Telegraph, died Feb. 13, 1989. After earning his
degree from W&L, he moved to Pittsburgh and
worked for three years with Koppers Co. In 1937
he relocated to the New York/New Jersey area,
where he lived until 1968. During those years, he
worked for General Motors Corp., served as a
lieutenant in the U.S. Navy during World War II,
and worked with United States Steel, Carrier
Corp., and M&M Candy Co. With ITT, he spent
17 years as a management consultant, specializ-
ing in the design and installations of cost systems.
Cole lived in Denville, N.J., at the time of his
death.

JAMES TAYLOR RUTHERFORD JR., 734,
retired president of the Houston firm Rutherford
Co., died Feb. 8, 1989. Having attended W&L for
one year, he continued his studies at the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma, where he earned his bachelor’s
degree in business administration in 1933. Between
1936 and 1937, he was employed with Skelly Oil
Co. in Tulsa, Okla. In 1937 he moved to Houston,
where he worked with Reed Roller Bit Co. After
10 years, he moved to the Los Angeles area to work
for Republic Supply Co. of California as a sales
engineer. Having retired, Rutherford spent his time
oil painting in Houston, where in 1984 he had a
showing at the Graham Gallery.

SAMUEL JAMES TILDEN MOORE JR., 735,
a retired attorney who had been a partner in the
Richmond law firm of Moore & Pollard, died Feb.
5, 1989, in Palm Beach, Fla., where he moved two
years ago. After earning his degree from W&L,
he entered the University of Richmond Law School

and earned his law degree in 1939. He joined Liber-
ty Mutual Insurance Co. and worked in Boston,
Baltimore, and Spartanburg, S.C. During World
War II, he served in the U.S. Army Signal Corps
as a sergeant. He resumed his career with Liberty
Mutual in 1946 and remained with the company
until 1950. He then joined the Richmond law firm
of Sands, Marks & Sands. After 10 years, he joined
the firm of Shewmake & Gary as a partner. Be-
tween 1972 and 1987, he was associated with
Moore & Pollard. Moore also taught the course
‘Civil War and Reconstruction”’ in the evening
school at Virginia Commonwealth University and
was a former president of the Richmond Civil War
Roundtable. He was the author of two books, The
Jefferson Hotel: A Southern Landmark and
Moore’s Complete Civil War Guide to Richmond.
He was a former president of the Young
Democratic Club in Richmond and was active with
St. Paul’s Episcopal Church.

WILLIAM LEWIS MARTIN, ’36L, senior part-
ner with the Roanoke law firm of Martin,
Hopkins, Lemon & Carter, died March 18, 1989.
After earning his law degree from W&L, he
became a partner with the firm of Martin & Mar-
tin. He remained with the same firm all his life.
During his career, he served as president of the
Roanoke Bar Association. He also taught civil pro-
cedure at W&L’s School of Law during the 1948-49
and 1950-51 academic years. Martin was a member
of the Elks Club, Moose Lodge, and Woodlawn
United Methodist Church. During World War II,
he served in the U.S. Navy and earned the rank
of lieutenant commander.

FREDERICK S. CRAWFORD POMEROY, ’36,
of Cambridge, Md., died Jan. 11, 1989. After at-
tending W&L, he worked in Philadelphia with an
insurance company before moving to Cambridge
in 1940. After one year with Phillips Packing Co.,
he served in the U.S. Army with the Military Police
Corps. When he returned to Cambridge after the
war, he took up farming.

CHARLES PAUL REED JR., ’38, a realtor who
lived in Campton, N.H., died Jan. 24, 1989. After
earning a bachelor’s degree from W&L, he con-
tinued his studies at Dickinson Law School. Dur-
ing World War II, he served four years in the U.S.
Army Medical Corps. Reed worked as assistant
treasurer of Meredith Village Savings Bank, as a
trust officer with Meredith Trust Co., and on the
staff of the trust department with First National
Bank of Minneapolis. Later in his career, he was
a teacher in the Winnisquam school district in New
Hampshire and then a realtor with Waterville
Valley Realty in Campton. He was a member of
the local school board for seven years.

MARVIN KAY COLLIE, ’39, retired partner of
the Houston law firm of Vinson & Elkins, died
Jan. 2, 1989. After attending W&L for one year,
he enrolled at the University of Texas and earned
bachelor’s and law degrees. Between 1942 and
1945, he served in military intelligence with the
U.S. Army Air Corps, was stationed in the Euro-
pean Theatre, and earned five battle stars. Collie
returned to Houston after the war to practice law
with Vinson, Elkins, Weems & Francis. He later
became a senior partner in the firm. During his
career, he spent two years as president of Texas
National Bank of Commerce, was on the board
of First City National Bank of Houston and of
The Travelers Corp. of Hartford, Conn., was a
trustee of both The Methodist Hospital and Baylor
College of Medicine, and served as president of

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

the University of Texas Foundation and the
Medical Research Foundation of Texas. Between
1983 and 1985, he was adjunct professor of law
at the University of Texas at Austin. Collie was
chairman of the administrative board of First
United Methodist Church of Houston between
1958 and 1960 and had been president of the board
of trustees since 1980.

DR. MICHAEL LOUIS GILBERT, ’40, a
pediatrician and founding physician of North
Shore University Hospital in Manhasset on Long
Island, N.Y., died Jan. 25, 1989. After earning
his degree from W&L, he attended New York
University College of Medicine and earned his
medical degree in 1944. During World War II, he
served in the U.S. Navy as a medical officer aboard
a destroyer in the Mediterranean Sea. After the
war, he joined the staff of Kings County Hospital
in Brooklyn, N.Y. He maintained private practices
in Manhasset and Great Neck. Between 1952 and
1954, he served aboard another ship during the
Korean War. Gilbert was also a founding physi-
cian of Long Island Jewish Hospital and was assis-
tant professor of pediatrics at Cornell Universi-
ty. He was a member of B’nai Brith and the
American Jewish Congress.

ROBERT LAWRENCE VAN WAGONER, ’41L,
retired FBI agent and executive director of the
Maryland Police and Correctional Training Com-
missions, died Aug. 26, 1988. Van Wagoner join-
ed the FBI as a special agent after earning his law
degree in 1941. During his career, he served as a
supervisor in the Domestic Intelligence Division
at the bureau’s headquarters in Washington, D.C.
He also spent three years ‘‘on loan’’ to the in-
vestigative staff of the House Appropriations
Committee in the U.S. Congress. When he retired
in 1966, Van Wagoner joined the Maryland Police
Training Commission and then in 1971 became
director of the state’s Correctional Training Com-
mission. He retired from these two commissions
in 1981. He was a founder and past president of
the National Association of State Directors of Law
Enforcement Training, which was established in
1970. He served two terms as president of his local
Parent-Teacher Association and was past chair-
man of the administrative board of Catonsville
(Md.) United Methodist Church.

HARRY KEATING (JOE) BAUGHER, ’42,
retired senior analyst for Exxon Co. USA, died
in his hometown of Baltimore on Dec. 3, 1988.
During World War II, he was a lieutenant in the
U.S. Navy Reserve and earned four battle stars
for his service in the European Theatre. After the
war, he joined Humble Oil and Refining Co. and
served in various capacities, including senior staff
assistant. He retired from Exxon in 1982. He had
been a member of St. William’s Catholic Church.

CARTER GLASS III, ’42L, retired general
manager of The News & Daily Advance in Lynch-
burg, Va., died Feb. 26, 1989. After attending the
University of Virginia for two years and then
Lynchburg College for one, Glass enrolled at
W&L. His student career was interrupted by World
War II, when he served in the U.S. Army Air
Corps as a lieutenant colonel. He earned nine bat-
tle stars and one air medal. After the war, he com-
pleted his W&L law degree and then continued his
Studies in taxation law at the University of
Virginia. He began his law career in Lynchburg
in 1947, when he became associated with the firm
of Caskie, Frost, Davidson & Watts. He was also
a lecturer in W&L’s School of Law between 1947

and 1955. Following the death of his father in
1955, Glass was named chief executive officer of
the Lynchburg newspaper and served until retir-
ing in 1969. He was a director of the Commercial
Trust and Savings Bank of Lynchburg. He was
also on the boards of Jones Memorial Library and
Marshall Lodge Memorial Hospital. He was a
member of the Kiwanis Club, Elks Club, the
Masons, the Scottish Rite, and the Shrine.

HOWARD RAYNOR THAYER, ’44, of Villa
Park, Calif., died Nov. 9, 1988. He enrolled at
WA&L in 1940, but his academic career was inter-
rupted by his service in the U.S. Army during
World War II. He returned to W&L for one year
after the war. Thayer was a 32-year employee of
Hughes Aircraft in Long Beach, Calif. At the time
of his death, he served the company as a computer
specialist.

DONALD ROBERT MOXHAM,, ’46, retired vice
president of Davenshire Inc. of New York City,
a manufacturer of women’s sportswear, died Jan.
10, 1989. After his graduation from W&L, he join-
ed Deering Milliken Inc. and worked as a sales
manager until 1961. He then joined Davenshire
and served the company until retiring five years
ago. He had been a director of Davenshire and
of Scotsdene Inc. A longtime resident of Mont-
clair, N.J., he was past president of the Montclair
Fairway Association. He was also a trustee of the
Montclair Rehabilitation Organization and a
member of the board of governors of Union Con-
gregational Church.

THOMAS RANDALL, ’46, a semiretired attorney
who spent the last four years of his life working
for Delaware County Legal Assistance, died Feb.
27, 1989, in Philadelphia. During World War II,
he served as an ensign in the U.S. Navy Reserve.
Randall then earned his law degree from the
University of Pennsylvania. He started his career
at R. T. Randall & Co., his family’s machinery-
manufacturing firm in Philadelphia. He later
became a title reviewer for Commonwealth Land
Title Insurance Co. He was a lifelong member of
Trinity Episcopal Church in Swarthmore, Pa.

WILLIAM WILSON BURTON, ’48, who had
spent a number of years as a manager with
Westinghouse Electric Corp. before becoming an
engineering cost analyst with Defense Logistics
Agency of Philadelphia, died Nov. 9, 1988. After
graduating from W&L, he earned a mechanical
engineering degree from Carnegie-Mellon Univer-
sity. In 1954 he joined Westinghouse and served
as senior engineer. He later became manager of
acoustics design and then manager of mechanical
systems design. Burton was a Washington and Lee
class agent from 1982 to 1987.

FRANCIS ASBURY DAVIS JR., 48, retired
president of F. A. Davis & Sons, a wholesale
tobacco distributing firm in Baltimore, died Nov.
6, 1988. During World War II, he served as an
aviation cadet with the U.S. Army Air Corps.
Davis was associated with the family company for
37 years before selling it in 1985, when he became
a consultant. He was on the board of the Home
Mutual Life Insurance Co., was a former treasurer
for the Baptist Home of Maryland, was vice chair-
man of the 1956 March of Dimes campaign in
Maryland, and served on the advisory board of
city hospitals in Baltimore. He was a lifelong
member of University Baptist Church.

DR. CALBERT TRENT SEEBERT, ’50, a retired
anesthesiologist who had been on the staff of Fran-
cis Scott Key Medical Center in Baltimore, died
March 15, 1989, in Spartanburg, S.C. Seebert
earned his medical degree from Jefferson Medical
College in Philadelphia. He was a former assis-
tant professor of anesthesiology at Johns Hopkins
Medical School and the University of Maryland
Medical School. He was a member of the Civil
War Roundtable and had served in the U.S. Ar-
my during World War II.

WALLACE ELIJAH (WALLY) WING JR., ’50,
died Dec. 6, 1988. After earning his commerce
degree from W&L, he joined the industrial
engineering department of Wisconsin Steel Works
in Chicago. In 1954 he was transferred to the com-
pany’s merchant mill operation as mill practice
supervisor. He became superintendent in 1957 and,
after assuming progressive superintendent respon-
sibilities, became assistant works manager in 1968.
He later served in management with Vulcan
Materials in Countryside, Ill. Wing had been ac-
tive as executive vice president of the Calumet
Council of the Boy Scouts of America. He was
a deacon of Flossmoor Community Church in
Flossmoor, IIl., where he lived at the time of his
death.

JAMES RANDALL CREEL JR., ’57, died Aug.
10, 1988. After earning his degree from W&L, he
enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and was a pilot
from 1957 to 1962. He then joined New York Air-
ways as assistant to the vice president and work-
ed for three years before becoming a floor broker
and member of the New York Stock Exchange
with Carlisle & Jacquelin. During his career, he
was also associated with Wood Gundy Inc., a Wall
Street securities firm. Creel was a member of the
Flight Safety Foundation.

WILLIAM ADDISON VAUGHAN, ’70L, head
of the energy and environmental division of the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Sutherland, Asbill
& Brennan, died March 19, 1989. A graduate of
Virginia Military Institute, Vaughan earned a
master’s degree in engineering from Purdue
University in 1964. He taught civil engineering at
VMI for 10 years before earning his law degree
from W&L. In 1970 he joined General Motors
Corp. as an attorney on the legal staff. After one
year he was named head of the environmental law
section to supervise legal activities involving the
corporation’s plant and industrial engineering
operations. In 1976 he became director of the
energy management group of GM’s manufactur-
ing staff. Five years later he was named the Energy
Department’s assistant secretary for environment,
safety, and health and was responsible for
emergency preparedness policies, the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, and the Naval Petroleum and
Oil Shale Reserves. He joined Sutherland, Asbill
& Brennan in 1986.

 

Friends

 

 

 

ANDREW BROCKMAN VARNER, who was a
member of the Washington and Lee University ad-
ministration from 1928 to 1974, died in Lexington
on March 20, 1989. A graduate of Templeton
Business School, he served many years as assis-
tant treasurer at W&L and in 1966 became chief
accountant and director of the Office of Finan-
cial Services. Varner also served as treasurer of
Trinity United Methodist Church.

We >, 2s

And Furthermore

Reasons to Celebrate

EDITOR:

I am writing to tell you how much I enjoyed
the Baltimore Alumni Chapter’s Robert E. Lee
birthday party which was held on Jan. 20, 1989,
at the Elkridge Club in Baltimore. I offer my
sincerest appreciation and thanks to chapter presi-
dent Robert S. Clements, ’80, for what was really
a splendid event.

In reflecting on the theme of the event, my
thought was to suggest to all chapters that a
General Birthday Party be held by all in the late
January or early February time frame. This seems
to be a good time as our recent event was well
attended.

In hopes that this may come to pass in our and
other W&L chapters, I offer the following birth-
day toast:

To George Washington and Robert E. Lee
Both soldiers, gentlemen
Bound in history by their deeds
and accomplishments
and by
A small school in Virginia.

GLENN M. TORGERSON, ’72

Baltimore, Md.

R.E. Lee Research

EDITOR:

Congratulations for a fine article on
Washington and Lee’s Robert E. Lee Research
Program (Winter 1989). Reading the article revived
fond memories of my experiences many years ago
as a participant in this program.

My thanks to those W&L professors who
worked with me then and to those who now con-
tinue to sustain this teaching process for aspiring
researchers. In retrospect, this program can play
a determining role during the formative years of
those who choose a career in research.

CHARLES T. GARTEN Jr., ’70
Oak Ridge, Tenn.

More on Jim Boatwright

EDITOR:

In the spring of 1962 I was taking a class in
sophomore English from Professor James Boat-
wright. I was a business major. In class we were
studying poetry. On this particular day we were
reading Wordsworth’s ‘‘Ode: Intimations of Im-
mortality from Recollections of Early Childhood.’’

Something happened that day. Boatwright
made me appreciate and understand a poem. He
made something come alive in me that never had
before. I changed majors. Boatwright changed my
life. I loved literature, film, art, and life differently
because of him.

After class that day, Jo Tartt, ’65, and I were
walking with Boatwright down the Colonnade. I
was so excited about what had happened to me
in class. I remember saying, ‘‘It’s amazing. I had
always thought poetry was just for girls and
queers.’’ Not the kind of thing one would say
nowadays. Boatwright just laughed. Over the years
I changed my attitudes about girls and queers. But
I never changed my attitude about Mr. Boatwright.
I loved Mr. Boatwright. I always will.

The following is from the poem we read that
day:

54 W&L

**What though the radiance which was once
so bright

Be now for ever taken from my sight,

Though nothing can bring back the hour

Of splendour in the grass, of glory in the
flower;

We will grieve not, rather find

Strength in what remains behind;

In the primal sympathy

Which having been must ever be;

In the soothing thoughts that spring

Out of human suffering;

In the faith that looks through death,

In years that bring the philosophic mind.”’

God bless you, Mr. Boatwright.
Tom Pace, ’64
Seattle, Wash.

The Value of a W&L Education

EDITOR:

As a student of the 1950s whose mind was
opened by the faculty at Washington and Lee and
as a graduate who has spent his career in higher
education, I feel compelled to comment on the ar-
ticles, ‘‘Allan Bloom and the W&L Mind.”’
Bloom’s book and the ensuing debate must be
placed in the wider context of what has occurred
in American education over the last 30 years.

In the late 1950s the United States responded
to the Soviet Union’s launching of Sputnik by
pouring large sums of money into scientific and
mathematical programs so that by the early 1960s
higher education was beginning ‘‘to catch up with
the Russians.’’ Since then higher education and
national policies have become inextricably linked.
The second phase came in the mid-1960s when,
in many ways, American society passed a water-
shed. The civil rights movement and the anti-war
protests either began or found support on college
campuses. Higher education is still reaping the
results of those years regarding student rights, cur-
riculum revisions, and academic governance
systems. We are now into a third phase which
seems to be a combination of a prolonged reac-
tion to the 1960s, a response to the further
democratization of higher education, and an
awakening of a somnolent and smug academic
community out of its recent complacency.

Alan Bloom, William Bennett, and E.B.
Hirsch, through histrionics and persuasive
arguments, have done higher education a big favor
whether one agrees with them or not. They have
forced the practitioners and defenders of educa-
tion to reconsider what is either essential or trivial
in their trade, and we should not kill the
messengers for initiating a healthy and lively
debate.

A brief letter cannot begin to explore Bloom’s
assertions or examine his conclusions. However,
I do concur with him in his analysis of
undergraduate attitudes. Given the current trends
in this country, their outlooks will continue to be
relativistic and materialistic as a consumer-driven
economy and a rapidly changing secular society
follow their present course. Although my classes
will be more heterogeneous than those at
Washington and Lee, both share many values, see
themselves and their culture in similar fashions,
and will come into the room prepared at about the
same level.

Letters to the Editor

A nation like America, that is pluralistic,
culturally diverse, and dependent on technology
and a global economy, will further shed its political
and religious heritage so that its common past will
have less and less an impact in shaping the future.
No one can predict if this will make the United
States a better nation or not. What we must be
certain is that higher education will meet these
challenges. I am convinced that in recognition of
these challenges the faculty at Washington and Lee
will continue to do what they have always done
so well: to prepare the students for a confusing
but exciting world and to give them the most
precious gift that Washington and Lee bestows on
its graduates—confidence to face that world in
humane terms.

Roy T. MATTHEWS, ’54
East Lansing, Mich.

EDITOR:

Back in February 1986, the A/umni Magazine
published a piece of mine counting the benefits I
saw in a liberal arts education. I enumerated some
of the fields in which I found the broad-based
general education I got at W&L to have been an
asset, even a necessity. Since then, I’ve had
numerous Occasions to appreciate the liberal arts
background I began at college. Last week, in a
class I’m auditing, I was astonished at the spec-
trum of fields covered, none of which were directly
related to the course title, but all of which bore
on it and illuminated the discussion. I thought I’d
share the experience with my schoolmates.

I am currently working on my Ph.D. in the
department of performance studies at New York
University (with, by the way, Richard Schechner
and Brooks McNamara, former colleagues of the
late W&L theater professor Lee Kahn). Though
I have finished the coursework, I’m still working
on my dissertation so I have to remain matriculated
until I finish. If I’m in town and free, I occasional-
ly audit a class as long as I’m paying the school
money. This term, I’m sitting in on Richard
Schechner’s ‘‘Theories of Directing.’’ A recent
class focused on Vsevelod Meyerhold, the ex-
perimental Russian director of the ’10s and ’20s.

While it isn’t unusual for visionary artists like
Meyerhold to use eclectic interests and inspiration
in their work, this discussion struck me as more
far-ranging than any single class I can recall. Prof.
Schechner started off with a precis of Russian
history from 1914 through the revolution and civil
war to the rise of Stalin. From then on, the class
touched, occasionally in some detail, on the form
and philosophy of socialist realism and the works
of Van Gogh and Picasso; planetary orbits and
the effects of gravity; ellipses and parabolas; the
rise of the stage director; time-and-motion studies,
Taylorism, and industrialism; and Jean-Paul Sar-
tre’s belief that ‘‘death converts every life to a
destiny.’’

That makes seven academic disciplines covered
in one three-hour class: history, art history,
astronomy and physics, geometry, theater history,
social history, and philosophy. And those were on-
ly the major ones. Granted, Richard Schechner’s
classes tend to range under ordinary circumstances,
but this was extraordinary in my experience. Now,
I can’t say that I knew all about all these topics,
but I had a passing familiarity with most—enough
to put them together with the main focus of the
discussion.

This experience also illustrates what I have

cil i i a a | ——

iii i a a

 

li ak Oe ik is

 

 

often tried to explain to my theater students: You
can’t really work in the theater without at least
an introduction to every other field of human in-
tellectual endeavor. Paradoxically, a student who
studies only theater—no matter how extensively—
is no theater student. I do wish more traditional
theater majors could sit in on a Schechner class
or one like it; it might scare them away from the
narrow focus most follow in their academic
curricula.
RICHARD E. KRAMER, ’69
New York, N.Y.

The Fraternity Renaissance

EDITOR:

A reading of the Winter 1989 issue of the
Alumni Magazine has generated the disturbing
thought that Washington and Lee may actually be
two distinct, mutually incompatible communities.
At the risk of distortion through oversimplifica-
tion, I'll refer herein to these distinct communities
as W&L the liberal arts college and W&L the
fraternity or, in these days of coeducation, W&L
the private, social club.

Evidence of W&L as a liberal arts college, one
increasingly characterized by the attributes of our
nation’s great liberal arts colleges, is provided by
the article on the Robert E. Lee Research Program
(RELRP) and the young scholars who participate
in this program. The eloquent tributes to a
memorable teacher by several of Jim Boatwright’s
former students also reveal the humane and
cultivated spirit one legitimately expects to be much
in evidence in the close and extended community
of a great liberal arts college. Finally, President
Wilson, in the excerpt from his Founders’ Day ad-
dress, by urging the W&L community to view Lee’s
‘‘code of the gentleman’’ as something more than
‘*a beautiful Victorian artifact,’’ reminds us that
the mission of a great liberal arts college is,
ultimately, a mission of the human spirit.

Of course, President Wilson is compelled to
make the points he makes in his address by the
very existence of W&L the private, social club. It
is, I suspect, members of W&L the club who are
most likely to admonish Wilson for marring an
otherwise happy Founders’ Day celebration by ex-
pressing less-than-happy realities of campus life.
Realities are realities, however, no matter how
much one plays ostrich. A further reminder of the
ugly realities characterizing campus life—sexism
and personally and socially destructive behavior
of a common, unimaginative variety are
highlighted—is provided by alumnus W. Patrick
Hinely in his letter to the editor on the Fraternity
Renaissance Program (FRP).

Learning of the existence of the FRP through
Hinely’s articulate letter, I suddenly understood
the significance of the comment on W&L life I read
in Southern magazine a few months ago. Southern,
as many probably know, rated W&L one of the
28 best liberal arts colleges in the South. Certain-
ly, this rating was deserved. When scanning the
summary of the ratings, however, I noted especial-
ly the brief quotes about life at the various rank-
ed colleges from students or administrators on the
relevant campuses. To the best of my recollection,
all these comments but the one pertaining to W&L
highlighted an aspect of the academic or cultural
life at the school. W&L’s distinctive contribution
to the liberal arts, in contrast, seemed to be the
relationship at W&L between the ‘‘Greeks’’ and
the administration of the college. I gathered that
W&L, even more so than a nirvana of
‘‘Greekdom”’ like Southern Methodist Universi-
ty (I live adjacent to the SMU campus, so I speak

with authority), proudly anticipated providing
American higher education with a ‘‘model’’ for
effective relationship between college and club.

After reading Hinely’s letter, I have a better
understanding of the reference in Southern. I am
also profoundly disturbed by my understanding.
I suppose a $5 million infusion of funds and
another $5 million in loans—apparently totally
unsecured and with no legal obligation of any kind
on the part of the recipients—to repair the willful
destruction committed by certain members of the
student body may be viewed as a ‘‘model’’ of sorts.
I doubt, however, that this nation’s great liberal
arts colleges will look to W&L for suggestions as
to how to proceed in humanizing life on their cam-
puses. They never have in the past, and they’d be
looking backwards if they did so now.

The administrations of most of this nation’s
great colleges and universities typically display the
sort of critical self-analysis and the kind of
awareness of the changing social and economic en-
vironment in which they offer their vitally impor-
tant social service which culminates almost in-
evitably in innovative thinking and a creative vi-
sion of the future. W&L, in contrast, seems chain-
ed to the dead letter of past traditions. Under
President Wilson’s leadership, the chains may have
gotten somewhat longer, somewhat less restrictive,
but they’re still much in evidence.

The heated debate a few years ago over
coeducation provided a nearly overwhelming
display of the reverence for tradition’s dead let-
ter which characterizes the thought of many in the
W&L community. Then, passionate defenses of
the ‘‘status quo’’ filled the air. Then, the argu-
ment that ‘‘What isn’t broken should not be fix-
ed!’’was often vigorously cited. Then, it was fre-
quently stated that an essential element of W&L’s
*‘unique excellence’ was the fact that it was a
single-sex institution. Surely, no intelligent member
of the W&L community needs to be told that at-
titudes such as these are absolutely ruinous in a
business organization? Management which spends
its energy defending things-as-they-are and ignor-
ing potentially profitable new markets because the
company has made money in the past is manage-
ment which jeopardizes the future of the company
it is charged with protecting. Inasmuch as W&L
presumes to offer a distinctive service and product
in a highly competitive environment, the basic laws
applicable to the ongoing success of a for-profit
business would seem to apply as well to W&L.

I do not mean to suggest that W&L ought to
let the market speak with absolute authority in
determining the University’s mission and how that
mission can best be realized. Rather, I am sug-
gesting that attending to and responding to pro-
found changes in society at large can better enable
a provider of education to perform a distinctive
social service. The early results produced by
coeducation, for example, seem to indicate that
W&L is gradually becoming more successful in
fulfilling the ultimate mission of a liberal arts col-
lege than it had been for a number of years im-
mediately prior to coeducation.

Clearly, a definition of what the mission of a
liberal arts college ultimately is is fundamental to
determining what policy and procedure at W&L
ought to be. I believe that a liberal arts college ex-
ists to foster in students knowledge of their place
in time and space (i.e., cultural awareness), the
ability to think critically and objectively, and an
ardent sense of personal and social responsibili-
ty. Private social clubs, on the other hand, general-
ly have quite a different mission. While the mis-
sion of the club may support in part the mission
of a liberal arts college, it is also quite possible that

the raison d’etre of a club will produce results
which undermine the mission of a liberal arts col-
lege. It seems apparent that at W&L, certainly,
fraternities continue to foster attitudes and
behavior contradictory to the kind of tolerant,
enlightened, and responsible attitudes and behavior
W&L as a liberal arts college is supposed to be
fostering.

My definition of the mission of a liberal arts
college, of course, may not coincide with the
definition prevalent among the University’s ad-
ministration. Reading of the RELRP and of the
general condition of the fraternities at W&L cer-
tainly suggests that the administration places a
great deal more emphasis on W&L the club than
on W&L the liberal arts college. Dean H. Thomas
Williams refers to the stipend received by the
scholars in the RELRP. He says, ‘‘This is the ab-
solute epitome of what we’re all about at
Washington and Lee, and we’ re willing to reward
it.”’ Yet, Dean Williams himself admits that the
stipend is a ‘‘pittance.’’ In contrast to the millions
of dollars being allocated to fund the FRP this pit-
tance seems to me especially puny—and of poten-
tially great significance.

In the business world, talk’s cheap and put-
ting one’s money where one’s mouth is is generally
and justifiably viewed as evidence of real commit-
ment. I am disturbed by facts which suggest that
W&L’s administration generally may not be clearly
and consciously dedicated to further promoting
W&L’s evolution as a great, national liberal arts
college. I hope I am wrong. I hope that the FRP
is, in fact, a kind of ultimatum from the ad-
ministration, a message to those in the W&L com-
munity who would define honorable behavior, ap-
plying the letter of the Honor System and evading
its spirit, as merely not cheating or plagiarizing in
academic work. The very existence of the RELRP,
the presentation in the Alumni Magazine of
substantive issues and of honest discussion of these
issues, and, most of all, the wisdom and courage
generally demonstrated by President Wilson all en-
courage me to think I am, in fact, wrong, that
WA&L is indeed determined to work at strengthen-
ing its reputation as one of the nation’s best liberal
arts colleges by ensuring that it is, indeed, one of
the best.

LEONARD A. BLANCHARD, ’69
Dallas, Texas

Frank A. Parsons, ’54, Washington and Lee’s
coordinator of physical planning, responds:

Although Mr. Blanchard may have missed
earlier references to the Fraternity Renaissance
Program in the A/umni Magazine, a great many
other important messages we try to convey through
its pages have indeed reached him and, one hopes,
many other alumni. His letter is most thoughtful
and incisive. Patrick Hinely’s recent magazine let-
ter provided a distinctive perspective on Fraterni-
ty Renaissance, but there have been these other
efforts to describe this important undertaking:

November/December 1986, 6-page account of
the Alumni Fraternity Council’s symposium on the
future of fraternities; July/August 1987, a ‘““W&L
Gazette’’ section story on Trustee approval of an
architectural study to determine the scope of the
renovation problem; November/December 1987,
major 2-page article about a conference of house
corporation members; March/April 1988, com-
mentary on fraternities by President Wilson in an
interview, and a Gazette section story on Trustee
endorsement of the ‘‘Standards for Fraternities’’
and the appointment of a Trustee subcommittee

Wes. oe

to study alternatives for financing the rehabilita-
tion of fraternity houses; and Fall 1988, a Gazette
section story on Trustee general approval of the
Fraternity Renaissance Program and the Board’s
commitment to provide up to $10 million for the
renovation of 16 of the 17 fraternity houses at
Washington and Lee.

It is impractical here to address every issue
mentioned in Mr. Blanchard’s letter, but perhaps
this summation will serve some purpose:

Washington and Lee’s fraternity system is
broken, and it’s got to be fixed. Fraternities have
been a part, a vital part, of Washington and Lee
for well over 100 years. Fraternities have been
depended upon to provide dining facilities, hous-
ing, and social focus for generations of
Washington and Lee students. The symbiosis of
college and club, to adopt Mr. Blanchard’s terms,
is a fact at Washington and Lee, so firmly rooted
in history and practicality that it cannot easily be
eliminated or quickly changed.

The University owns three fraternity houses
that sit on W&L land, and it leases the land
beneath eight other houses to their house corpora-
tion owners. Six fraternities’ house corporations
own both their houses and the land on which they
sit. Regardless of actual ownership, Washington
and Lee cannot turn away from its responsibility
for the appearance and conditions of these major
residential structures. They have been ‘‘ours’’ too
long for the University to say, ‘‘That’s not our
problem!’’ These houses are our problem, as are
the problems of animal-house attitudes and ir-
responsible management. The Fraternity
Renaissance Program is a bold, positive effort to
confront these problems and solve them on a
system-wide basis.

Some may see it all as a gamble, but it’s one
the President and the Board of Trustees are
prepared to take. And with risk, as any en-
trepreneur or poker player knows, there must be
the possibility of reward. Our reward can be one
that is shared with every alumnus for whom frater-
nities are part of their fond, positive memories of
Washington and Lee. The long, hard hours of
work by the Alumni Fraternity Council and the
Fraternity House Renovation Steering Committee
have produced ‘‘Standards’’ that are the blueprint
from which success can be fashioned. The Stan-
dards deal with organization, financial manage-
ment, the responsibilities of the University, na-
tional fraternities, house corporations, the Inter-
fraternity Council, and the chapters. They define
requirements with regard to the physical accom-
modations, maintenance, and operation of a
house, as well as the requirements for acceptable
behavior on the part of organizations and in-
dividual members. They require a resident adult
non-student manager, perhaps a house mother but
not necessarily such, in each house.

We know it can be done. The renovated Phi
Gamma Delta house is a model both in its physical
attributes and in the strong alumni involvement
that has directed its rebirth and now supervises its
operation. The Phi Gams meet every standard, in-
cluding the resident manager requirement. Another
fraternity, Chi Psi, needs to do relatively little to
conform to all standards.

If the renaissance effort is successful, we will
have reintegrated the Greek system (there are now
three sororities at W&L) with the main fabric of
University life, turning today’s frequent embar-
rassments into a new sense of pride. If we succeed,
Fraternity Renaissance will mesh nicely with all the
other positive elements that Mr. Blanchard iden-
tifies at W&L. There will probably always be some
degree of tension between college and club, but

56 =W&L

there does not have to be incompatibility.

In order to succeed, we’ve got to try. We must
remember that it will cost nearly as much to
rehabilitate these houses for any other use as it will
to rejuvenate them as responsible fraternities. Old
Thomas Hobson wasn’t a Mink fraternity man,
but it appears his choice is the best we have.

Capital Case Controversy

EDITOR:

This letter is in response to the article titled
‘**Capital Case Clearinghouse created at School of
Law’’ in the ‘‘Fall Gazette’’ section of the Fall
1988 issue of the Alumni Magazine.

I am writing both personally and
professionally—personally in that I have been a
lifelong strong supporter of W&L and I love and
admire the school deeply, and professionally as
deputy attorney general in charge of capital litiga-
tion in the Virginia Office of the Attorney General.
In my professional position, I am intricately
familiar with Earl Clanton’s case, discussed in the
above article.

Among other things that my seven years at
WA&L taught me is the importance of both factual
and intellectual honesty. I am concerned by the
lack of both in the article about Earl Clanton. I
am particularly referring to the following
paragraph:

**Clanton, who was convicted of murder
in 1980, appealed the conviction, but he
failed to win a stay of execution when the
Supreme Court refused to hear the case last
year. He was without a lawyer to file any
further appeals until two months before the
scheduled execution, and that was too late.
He died in April.”’

First, Earl Clanton was not convicted of
murder in 1980. He was convicted of one count
of capital murder during the commission of rob-
bery in the Circuit Court for the City of Petersburg
in May 1981.

Much more important, however, is the false
impression left with the reader by the statement
that Clanton did not have any lawyer to file fur-
ther appeals until two months before his schedul-
ed execution.

The emotional tone of the paragraph clearly
implies that the writer is opposed to the death
penalty. This is an issue over which reasonable peo-
ple will always differ, but it should not be an issue
on which the Alumni Magazine should base the
article. The article concerns a service that the
School of Law is providing and this service is both
noteworthy and newsworthy. On the other hand,
it is improper to inject the kind of emotional im-
pact that you have into an otherwise newsworthy
article. The writer creates the emotional tone by
completely ignoring all the litigation and appeals
in this case over a seven-year period, thus leaving
the reader with the feeling that Mr. Clanton never
had his day in court. The writer has inappropriate-
ly compacted the entire history of this case into
a one-sentence condemnation of the capital litiga-
tion process.

Between Clanton’s trial in May 1981 and the
execution some seven years later in April 1988,
Clanton’s case was either heard or reviewed by the
Circuit Court of the City of Petersburg twice, the
Virginia Supreme Court three times, the United
States Federal District Court twice, the Fourth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals twice, and the United States
Supreme Court twice. In every single case, Clan-

ton was represented by counsel. In fact, in many
of the cases, Clanton was represented by as many
as five attorneys.

The procedural history of this case is as
follows. After Clanton’s conviction in the Circuit
Court for the City of Petersburg, Clanton appealed
to the Virginia Supreme Court. He was represented
on appeal by his trial counsel. The Virginia
Supreme Court affirmed the conviction.

Clanton then filed a state habeas corpus peti-
tion in the Circuit Court for the City of Petersburg.
He was represented by three attorneys. The Cir-
cuit Court denied habeas corpus relief and Clan-
ton appealed to the Virginia Supreme Court, where
he was represented by four attorneys, three of
whom were the same attorneys who represented
him in the habeas corpus petition appealed from.
The Virginia Supreme Court dismissed the appeal.

Clanton then filed a federal habeas corpus peti-
tion in the United States District Court at Rich-
mond. He was there represented by three at-
torneys, and the District Court granted resentenc-
ing relief. The Commonwealth appealed that relief
to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, which
reversed the Federal District Court’s decision. In
the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, Clanton was
once again represented by the same three attorneys.
Clanton appealed the decision of the Fourth Cir-
cuit to the United States Supreme Court, which
denied relief, and at which appeal the same at-
torneys once again represented Clanton.

Clanton then filed another state habeas cor-
pus petition in the Circuit Court for the City of
Petersburg, at which time he was represented not
only by the same attorneys who had been
representing him for approximately six years, but
also by three attorneys from the highly respected
New York law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton, and Garrison. At this point, Clanton
was represented by five attorneys. The Circuit
Court for the City of Petersburg denied relief.

This decision was appealed to the Virgina
Supreme Court, and the same five attorneys con-
tinued to represent Clanton on the appeal. The
Virginia Supreme Court denied relief.

Clanton then filed another federal habeas cor-
pus petition in the United States District Court at
Richmond. He was there represented by the same
five attorneys mentioned above. The decision of
the United States District Court was appealed to
the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the same
five attorneys represented Clanton on this appeal.

The issues finally went to the United States
Supreme Court again, and Clanton was
represented by three attorneys from Paul, Weiss.

As I noted earlier, the issue here is not whether
you are in favor of, or opposed to, the death penal-
ty. The issue, rather, is both factual and intellec-
tual honesty in what is reported to your readers.
Any person unfamiliar with Clanton’s case would
read your article and immediately respond with the
emotionalism that the article is designed to
generate. The impression from your article is that
Clanton’s case was a gross miscarriage of justice
and that the Virginia Capital Case Clearinghouse
was designed because of the Clanton case. If the
purpose behind the Clearinghouse is this case, then
I suggest that the designers were poorly informed.

I hope that in the future those responsible for
informing W&L alumni will research and double-
check the facts before printing an article such as
this. This type of article is a disservice to anyone
who has the misfortune of reading it. Fortunate-
ly, this is the only such article that I have seen in
an otherwise excellent publication.

STEPHEN D. ROSENTHAL, ’71, ’76L
Richmond, Va.

 

A Gift to the Annual Fund
Makes Sense for Many, But Not All.

Use This Guide
to Help Make Your Decision.

 

 

Do Give If

You love W&L.

Just the sight of the Col-
onnade or hearing ‘The
Swing” lifts your spirits.

Being able to say “‘I
went to W&L” makes
you feel special.

You cherish your time at
W&L, the friends you
made, the memories
you'll always have of it.

You want W&L not
merely to survive but to
flourish.

in its own way, W&L is
as dear to you as your
own family and
nourishing those you
care about gives you
profound pleasure.

 

 

 

Don’t Give If You

Don’t care about W&L
one way or the other.

Don’t believe in the
value of the education it
offers.

Don’t feel any sense of
pride because of your
association with it.

Don’t have any concern
over whether it prospers
or fails.

Don’t think your gift will
make any difference.

Don’t get any pleasure
from giving.

 

 

What’s Your Decision?

 

Naturally, W&L hopes you'll
want to give to the Annual Fund
this year — and every year —
because it is the most important
source of gift income the
University has. Without the An-
nual Fund, W&L couldn’t be
What those who love it want it
to be.

When you give is, of course,
up to you, but if you want to
help this year, please send your
gift right away.

This year’s Annual Fund
closes on June 30.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of | N : fit O |
on-Profit Org.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY U.S. Postage

Lexington, Virginia 24450 : eae

Cincinnati, OH

 

a

) >

1s UVUorm

 

